


Homage to past heroes 
The ObserverfT.J. Harris 
Members of Notre Dame's ROTC branches pay homage and respect to POWs and MIAs during the POW/MIA Awareness Week ceremony on Friday. The week is designed to ensure that those who were prisoners or who are still missing are not forgotten. 

Ruling clears the way for Demjanjuk to leave Israel 
By ALLYN FISHER 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel's Supreme Court cleared the way Sunday for the release of John Demjanjuk, set­ting aside appeals for a new Nazi war crimes trial after de­laying his departure five times. 
The ruling was expected to conclude a long saga involving the retired Ohio auto worker. He was acquitted July 29 of be­ing "Ivan the Terrible," a Nazi guard who operated gas cham­bers at Poland's Treblinka Death Camp during World War II. 
Demjanjuk was free to leave Israel immediately, officials said. But his attorney and fam­ily were working out details of his departure and asked that he be kept in protective custody. Demjanjuk's son-in-law and a 
U.S. Rep., James Traficant, D­Ohio, planned to leave Monday to escort Demjanjuk. 
Traficant said he expected Demjanjuk to be back in the United States before Friday. 
The ruling by Justice Theodore Orr was the sixth time the court has dealt with Demjanjuk's case since his ac­quittal, when a five-member panel said there was reason­able doubt about his identity as Ivan the Terrible but found that he had been present at other Nazi camps. 
Orr rejected appeals by Holocaust survivors and Nazi hunters who sought to have Demjanjuk retried on charges that he was at the Sobibor death camp as well as concen­tration camps. They had mounted an international search for Sobibor survivors who could identify Demjanjuk. 
Orr's ruling refused requests for a broader panel of justices to review evidence to see if a new trial could be justified. 
Israel's Attorney General 
Yosef Harish already had de­cided not to prosecute Demjanjuk further, saying the evidence was too weak and there was risk of double jeop­ardy, or trying him twice on the same charges. The Supreme Court needed exceptional cir­cumstances to overturn the attorney general's decision. Orr's ruling meant those cir­cumstances did not exist in Demjanjuk's case. 
Justice Ministry spokesman Etty Eshed said Orr also can­celed a restraining order that had kept the 73-year-old Demjanjuk in an isolation cell at Ayalon prison near Tel Aviv. 


Israel, Egypt to sign peace declaration within months 
By NEJLA SAMMAKIA 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Egypt 

Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak met Sunday with Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and said "most, maybe all" Arab nations are ready to follow Israel and the PLO to­ward peace. 
Speaking to reporters after a two-hour summit with Rabin, Mubarak said he expects Israel and Syria would sign a declara­tion of peace within months. Mubarak said he'll try to speed their negotiations. 
"Every country in the area wants peace," Mubarak said with Rabin at his side. "Enough hatred and bloodshed and killing, and using our revenues for war. I can tell you most, maybe all the Arab world sup­ports the step forward for peace." 
Syrian President Hafez Assad, in an interview with an Egyptian newspaper, said he was angry that Arafat negoti­ated an accord with Israel se­cretly, but said Syria would continue peace talks with Israel. 
Rabin hastily arranged Sunday's summit at the Mediterranean resort to win support from friendly Arabs for 

Minister shot during church service 
Associated Press 
NORTH SALEM, Ind. 

A Methodist minister was fin­ishing his sermon Sunday when a woman shot him to death in front of his horrified congrega­tion and 13-year-old daughter, police said. A woman he once dated was arrested. 
The Rev. Roland Phillips, 36, of North Salem, was concluding the sermon before about 25 people at the United Methodist Church when he was shot three times in the chest, said Lt. Terry Brinker, a Hendricks County Sheriffs spokesman. He died on the way to a hospital. 
Brinker said Elizabeth Mayberry of Bloomington ap­proached Phillips during the sermon and asked to speak with him, but the minister asked her to wait until he was finished. 
Mayberry then stood next to Phillips until he was concluding the sermon, when she pulled out a gun and shot him three times in the chest, Brinker said. 
Authorities said a member of the congregation wrestled Mayberry to the ground while another parishioner took away the gun. A fourth shot was fired during the struggle, but it harmlessly hit a railing in front of the congregation. 
Mayberry, 36, was held at the Hendricks County Jail.She was expected to make a court ap­pearance Monday, Brinker said. 
Phillips, who was divorced, once dated Mayberry, Brinker said.But he added that police had no idea what prompted the killing. 
The minister's 13-year-old daughter, Rachel, was in church when her father was killed, Brinker said. 

--~ -------------~ 
Women's forum to be held tonight 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Associate News Ediwr 

Providing an open forum for women as well as men to speak out about women-related issues and experiences at Notre Dame, and discussing ongoing efforts and new ideas to tackle some of these issues is the goal of "ND Women Speak Out," a project cosponsored by Graduate and Undergraduate Student Governments tonight at 7:30 in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
The first part of the forum 
will feature speakers from dif­
ferent groups on campus, in­
cluding representatives from 
Cafnpus Alliance for Rape 
Elimination (C.A.R.E.) and Sex 
Offense Services (S.O.S.), to 
present their own experiences 
and efforts concerning 
women's issues at Notre Dame. 
Then the floor will be opened 
to anyone who wants to share 
their own experiences or con­
cerns. 

"We hope to find out what 
women are concerned about on 
campus by providing an open 
space for them to talk about 
these issues affecting them 
here at Notre Dame," said ju­
nior Katie Glynn, Student 
Government Women's 
Resource Committee commis­
sioner. "And we hope to raise 
awareness about these issues 
and possibly get their support 
for things such as the Women's 
Resource Center." 

She added, "We encourage 
men to come as well, because 
many of these issues don't just 
affect women, and resolving 
these issues will benefit every­
one." 

the peace pact the Jewish state peace treaty with Israel, has signed with the Palestine been instrumental in mediating Liberation Organization in between Israel and other Arab Washington a week ago. It calls states. for limited Palestinian self-rule Rabin returned to Israel later in the Gaza Strip and the West in the day. Bank town of Jericho. After their meeting, Mubarak 
noted Syria's desire for peace 
The one-day visit was Rabin's with Israel. third summit with Mubarak But he would not specify what since the Israeli leader took of­he and the Syrian president will fice in July 1992. Egypt, the discuss when Assad visits Egypt only Arab country that has a later this week. 
Student contracts hepatitis 
Sp«iaa to The Ob$erver 
A·freshman sttl:t:J.ent residing in. Dillon llall has been admit~ ted·to the·· sity .Health Center with iS A. a, viral infection of tM liVer: 
The student, whose home is in Ecuador, evidently con­tracted the disease some weeks ago, before coming to Notre Dame. Hepatitis. A is spread through contact with surfaces conJaminated by the (eces of infected persons and requires· prolonged, ·close· per­sonal contact for transmission. The disease is not spread through normal, occasional 
contact in classrooms, dining halls, residence halls· or . other common areas of campus. 
Tho~ students at risk of in­ff!ction as the result of close and prolonged exposure to the pa~ent alreadyare being noti­fieit by University Health Services and treated with gamma globulin. Other than to these students, this infection should pose no risk to the campus community. 
Students and others inter­ested in further ,information concerning hepatitis A may contact the University Health Center at 631*7497. 
.--------------------­
page2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, September 20, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Do S.U.D.S. officers serve and protect? 

Two Saturdays ago, I was at a small party at my friend's house on Navarre Street. There were around 30 people there. No one milled around outside. The music was not heard by the surrounding neigh-· bors. Everything was under control, and no problems were being caused. 
Then, before we knew it, four S.U.D.S. (Stop Underage Drinking and Sales) officers were knocking on the door, telling us that everyone had to leave, and had to show identification before leaving. Two more policemen were stationed at the back door to prevent anyone's escape. 
Sixteen students received citations that night for underage drinking, while the residents of the house were found in violation of a South Bend noise ordinance. 
This was a small party, with everyone know­ing almost everyone else at the party. The music was not loud enough to be disturbing; designated drivers were designated and stay­ing sober. Who were we harming? What prob­lems were we causing? 
The officers were upset because there was underage drinking going on inside the premis­es. This indeed occurred, but was it so bad that it warranted the Saint Joseph County Police to send two female officers into the party as plants, and then to have an additional six officers outside? 
Were we so harmful that the officers had to seek out crime, going into a house party that was disturbing no one? Mter the bust, one of the residents went around to his neighbors that night to see if the music had been too loud; every neighbor replied that they had heard nothing, and had in fact been woken up by the flashing lights of the police cars. 
Were there were no other more serious crimes occurring on a Saturday night than some kids drinking in a house, crimes which might have been prevented had eight addition­al officers been on the lookout? 
Actually, there were. Not three blocks from Navarre St. is the Lafayette Square apartment complex, a complex where one fifth (6 out of 
30) of the student apartments have been bur­glarized. This same night; while eight officers were otherwise occupied with some underage drinkers, an apartment at Lafayette Square was broken into. 
Which is worse, having people afraid to go down into their own basements in the middle of the day, to leave their homes for a half hour, or to have some friends drinking respon­sibly together? 
The situation at Lafayette Square has gotten so bad that a friend of mine has moved out of her apartment because she is too frightened to sleep in her basement bedroom. Yet rather than deal with this more serious problem, the police instead seek out harmless college drinkers who are relatively easier to appre­hend. 
The South Bend police force doesn't have to go into our houses to find something to do. There's already more than enough crime for them to handle. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Sarah Doran Dave Hungeling Michael O'Hara Production Whimey Sheets Spons Kathie Young Jonathan Jensen Accent 
Kenya Johnson Viewpoint Graphics Mark Krejci Brendan Regan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a membc:r of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rc:sc:rved. 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Cable television takes most Emmys in 45th awards program 
DRAMA 

Primetime Emmy Awards.  SERIES  
"We broke the barrier,"  "Picket Fences" CBS  "Selnfeld" NBC  
Home Box Office Chairman  
Michael Fuchs said backstage  LEAD ACTOR  LEAD ACTOR  
Sunday at the Pasadena Civic  Tom Skerrltt  Ted Danson  
Auditorium after the cable  "Picket Fences, "CBS  "Cheers," NBC  Roseanne  Arnold  
skipped the ceremony in  
channel  won  17  Emmys,  LEADACTRESS  LEADACTRESS  the year in which she  
including 11 creative arts  Kathy Baker  Roseanne Arnold  finally won an Emmy as  
awards given in a Saturday  "Picket Fences, • CBS  "Roseanne~" ABC  outstanding lead actress  

ceremony. '---------------------------------------------..-'., in a comedy series. 
HBO's victory came on the strength of three TV movies: "Stalin," "Barbarians at the Gate" and "The Positively True Adventures of the Alleged Texas Cheerleader-Murdering Mom." 
NBC came in second in the Emmy tally with 16 awards, followed by CBS with 14 and ABC with 12. Broadcast net­
works have traditionally been the Emmy powerhouses, even since cable was first recognized by the awards starting in 1987. 
"Seinfeld," the NBC series that celebrates cheeky humor amid the mundane aspects of everyday life, and the CBS drama "Picket Fences" won the top two series 
categories. Co-star Michael Richards was named best supporting actor in a comedy for his role as eccentric neighborKramer. Writer Larry David took home an Emmy for a notorious "Seinfeld" episode about masturbation. 
New Miss America will help homeless 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. 

It may be pursuing a new image, but the Miss America pageant hasn't left all of its beauty contest traditions behind. 
Newly crowned Miss America Kimberly Clarice Aiken took a customary seaside frolic in front of a pack of pho­tographers on Sunday. And, unlike her predecessor, Leanza Cornett, the 18-year-old Aiken said she likes to wear the rhinestone crown. 
One of the youngest women to hold the title, Aiken ­Miss South Carolina -bested 49 women to win the 1994 title Saturday night. 
"This has all been very overwhelming for me," she told reporters Sunday. "I am willing to accept the re­sponsibilities. 
Looking composed despite little sleep and a bad cold, Aiken said she wants to spend the next year working to help the homeless. 
"My main goal is to get homeless people off the streets and get people who may become homeless not to be in that situation," she said. ''I'd like to make the greatest difference." 
Aiken is founder and president of the Homeless Education and Resource Organization in her hometown of Columbia, S.C. She said she has worked with children who live in homeless shelters and transitional housing. 
As part of a new format for the 73-year-old pageant, contestants had to do their own hair and make-up and the dress code for the evening wear competition was re­laxed. 
Miss Georgia, Kara Kim Martin, 23, of Statesboro was first runnerup; Miss Ohio, Titilayo Adedokun, 20, of Cincinnati, second runnerup; Miss Oregon, Elizabeth Jeanne Simmons, 23, of Bandon, third runnerup; and Miss Virginia, Nancy Glisson, 22, of Williamsburg, fourth runnerup. 
Arnold had been vocal in the past about the few nomina­tions her popular series had won. Her co-star, Laurie Metcalf, won her second consecu­tive Emmy for supporting actress in a comedy, giving the 
show a total of three awards in its five-year history. 
Ted Danson claimed the Emmy for best actor in a com­edy series for "Cheers," the long-running NBC program which concluded this year. CBS' "Northern Exposure"-with a leading 16 nom­inations _also was shut out. In the category that pitted talk show competitors David 
Letterman, on the old "Late Night" NBC program, and Jay Leno of NBC's "Tonight Show" against each other, NBC's "Saturday Night Live" instead snuck away with 
the trophy for outstanding variety, music or comedy series. 
Veterans must change views ofVietnam 
KOKOMO, Ind. 
The men and women who served in Vietnam have been unfairly portrayed as everything from murderers and dope addicts, and it is up to veterans to set the record straight, Air Force disc jockey Adrian Cronauer said. 
"I never met a single murderer. never met a single rapist. I never met a single dope addict. I never met a sin­

gle baby killer. I never met a single closet peacenik or any ne'er-do-wells," Cronauer said in a speech to veter­ans Saturday in Kokomo. 
"What I did meet were a lot of honorable men and women who may not have been too happy about where they found themselves, but who were bound and de­termined to do their duty as well and as professionally as they could," he added. 
Cronauer, a communications lawyer, was the model for Robin Williams' break-the-mold disc jockey in Vietnam in the movie "Good Morning, Vietnam." 
The movie based on him was half true and half "Hollywood exaggeration," Cronauer said. Though he did teach English while he was off-duty, Cronauer said he never taught the Vietnamese in his class to swear. 
And he said there never were the bags of fan mail and hundreds of phone calls for him that the movie depicted. 
"I mean think about it. There aren't any phone booths out in the rice paddies -where are you gonna call from?" Cronauer said. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® lorecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 20. 
Monday, Sept. 20 Accu-Weathers forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

FRONTS: 
~.........._ ............ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Woolher, Inc. Pressure 
H L a E;SJ ITII 0 ~ §ll 1:) !::J. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN HiTORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUI'II'IY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~~~~a.~ (f ~ ~ 
S;,;,;e~ T·~t;;,;;s Rain ~~;;;~~ -~~:-~:· ~~-=. Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press GraphJcsNet 01993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Dallas 94 74 New Orleans 90 72 Denver 71 40 New York 73 55 
H L 
Atlanta 91 63 London 70 52 Paris 70 46
Ballimore 74 55 Boston 69 57 Los Angeles 74 61 Philadelphia 70 55 Madrid 79 59 Rome 86 63Chicago 67 51 Miami 89 78 St. Louis 76 59Columbus 73 58 Minneapolis 55 44 San Francisco 74 52 
Monday, September 20 , 1993 The Observer • NEWS page3 




ND announces new faculty members 
Assoc:iated Press 
forth very simple but powerful feelings from the Aineric people as we face each these challenges,'' Clinton Time magazine for its Sept. issue. 
vw· 

The president. who bates on health care. posed three-nation agreement and a p "reinvent an•aAl'·n mitted past in nicating his message public and focusing bis tion on issues. 
"I hope maybe I can better job as we go along of letting people know the big motivating behind these decisions 


CLUB COLUMN 

September 20, 1993 

Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 3 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office on the second floor of Lafortune. 
1. 
COMPUTER APPLICATIONS HONOR SOCIETY: Representatives ofAndersen Consulting will be discussing opportuni­ties with their company on Wednesday, September 22 from 7-8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. All those interested are welcome to attend. 

2. 
STUDENT ALUMNI RELATIONS GROUP (S.A.R.G.): General Meeting on Thursday, September 23 at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor ofLaFortune. All new members are encour­aged to attend. 

3. 
TOASTMASTERS OF NOTRE DAME: Meeting on Tuesday, September 21 at 7 p.m. in room 222 ofHayes-Healey. All are wei­come. 

4. 
ATTENTION ALL 1993-94 CLUB PRESIDENTS: Please check mailboxes for important information. Also make sure your Name, Address, and Phone number have been submitted to the CCC. 


FINANCE CLUB 

CAREER N'IGHT 
Tuesday, September 21st 7-9 p.m. Monogram Room Joyce A. C. C. 

:' .-:· 
\..;~ 
Representatives from over 20 firms who recruit at N.D. 
BUSINESS ATTIRE PLEASE 

Seniors -Bring resumes Underclass -Never too early to start talking with firms 

Special to The Observer 
New faculty members at the University of Notre Dame have been announced by Timothy O'Meara, provost. 

In the College of Arts and Letters, new faculty include: Scott Appleby, history and Cushwa Center; J. Matthew Ashley, theology; Andrea Backscheider, psychology; J. Robert Baker, Core course and freshman writing; Jon Todd Beane, philosophy; Alexander Blachly, music; Patricia Blanchette, philosophy; Tamsin Lea Bomar. freshman writing; Kat Buchanan, London pro­gram; Cambid-J Choy, art, art history and design; Russell Coulter, psychology; Cathleen Cow hey. German and Russian languages and literatures and Innsbruck program; Timothy Cozzens, art, art history and design; Steven Crain, theology; Karla Cruise, German and Russian languages and litera­tures; and Mary Rose D'Angelo, theology. 
Also: Gary Day, London pro­gram; Seamus Deane, English; Wei Deng, classical and Oriental languages and litera­tures; E. Jane Doering, Core course; Elizabeth Drumm, lib­eral studies; Carl Ellison, eco­nomics; Fr. John Gerber C.S.C., Core course; Andrew Gould, government and international studies; Sandra Gustafson, English; Gavin Helf, government and international studies; Christine Hogan, freshman writing; Karen Julka, romance languages and literatures; Jeanne Halgren Kilde, American studies; James Lanpher. liberal studies; Sharon Leahy. Core course and freshman writing; Giovanna Lenzi-Sandusky, romance lan­guages and literatures; Martina Lopez. art, art history and de­sign; MaryAnn Mahony, history; Thomas Maloney, economics; and Angela Michielutti, art, art history and design. 
Also: Michael Moriarty, Core course; Michael Neve, London program; Fr. Gilbert Ostdiek, O.F.M., theology; Catherine Perry, romance languages and literatures; Fr. Paul Philibert, D.P., theology; Joanne Pierce, theology; Makiko Pinkney, English; Tony Alan Pinkney, English; Gabriel Radvansky, psychology; Elena Rozina­Grazin, German and Russian languages and literatures; Randolph Rutsky, communica­tion and theatre; Maura Anne Ryan, theology; James Sauer, freshman writing; Valerie Sayers, English; Anindya Sen, economics; Daniel Stowe, mu­sic; Jean Anne Strebinger, freshman writing; Cornelius Thomas, history; William Tourtillotte, art, art history and design; Marguerite Tyrrell, romance languages and litera­tures; Martin Upham, London program; Raimo Vayrynen, gov­ernment and international studies; Michael Winter. London Program; and Zbigniew Zwolinski, philosophy. 
In the College of Business Administration: Richard Flavell, London MBA program; Elizabeth Ann Gabriel, accoun­tancy; David Hartvigsen, man­agement; Brian Huguenard, management; Carl Frederick Mela, marketing; John George 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 


DUBLIN, IRELAND JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD 
INFORMATION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1993 4:30P.M. 
117 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE DECEMBER 1, 1993 

Do you want to help others? 
Michel, management; Paula Anne Tkac, finance and busi­ness economics. 
In the College of Engineering: Peter Beery, computer science and engineering; Pascal Ferrand, aerospace and mechanical engineering; James Mason, aerospace and mechan­ical engineering; Reginaldo Palazzo, Jr.. electrical engi­neering; Steven Schmid, aero­space and mechanical engi­neering; James Paul Thomas. aerospace and mechanical engineering; and Kaining Wang, electrical engineering. 
In the College of Science: Ahmad Ansari, physics; Melanie DeFord, chemistry and biochemistry; Alejandro Garcia, physics; Jun-Muk Hwang, mathematics; Alan Johnson, biological sciences; Fr. John Kurtzke, C.S.C., mathematics; Zuwei Liu, physics; Andrew Mathas, mathematics; Gerard Misiolek, mathematics; Ingrid Marga Muller. biological sci­ences; Michelle Murphy, bio­logical sciences; Jan Spalinski, mathematics; Nancy Triggs, chemistry and biochemistry; and Ruirong Yu, chemistry and biochemistry. 

In ROTC: Ensign Lauri Denise Berry, naval science; Capt. Peter James Ferraro, Lt. Matthew Graef, naval science; Capt. Glenn Gfiebenow, aero­space studies; Lt. Rodrick Lekey, naval science; Cmdr. James Marsh, naval science; and Major Roger Norfolk, mili­tary science. 
In other University schools: Howard Hanson, Graduate School; Estevan Herrera, Freshman Year of Studies; Pamela Krauser. Graduate School; Ellen Rogers, Graduate School; Christine Mary Venter. Law School; and Anne Marie Wolf, Freshman Year of Studies. 
The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies has added Caroline Domingo, 
Regina  Faria,  Vilmar  
Evangelista  Faria,  Maria  
Josefina  Huaman,  James  
William  Joseph,  Joetta  

Schlabach, Ben Ross Schneider. and Jose Varela Ortega. 
Newly appointed faculty in other University institutes are: Caroline Domingo, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; and Laszlo Wojnarovits, Radiation Laboratory. 
The CHICANO SECRET SERVICE COMEDY CLUB is coming to NO Sept. 21 at Washington Hall from 7-8:30pm. Reception fol­lowing in Ballroom of LaFortune. 
Do you want to be a community service volunteer? Join us at a 


CXJRCJLJE K 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
WHJEN: MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20 AT 8 PM WHJERE: LAFORTUNE-ND ROOM 

JBJE THJERIE 
For more information, contact Kimberly Gropp at 284-5438 


----------~~--------~­


page4 The Observer • NEWS 
The ObeerverfT.J. Harrte 
Rhythm and harmony 

Vocalists from Voices of Faith practice for the first time this year in Crowley Hall. 
Monday, September 20, 1993 
Police shoot teenage thief 
Associated Press 

EAST ORANGE, N.J. 
A 15-year-old boy driving a stolen car was fatally shot by police officers who tried to ar­rest him and a passenger fol­lowing a brief chase, authori­ties said Sunday. 
Alquan Brown of Irvington was killed just before midnight Saturday after the 1989 Oldsmobile he was driving struck a metal post at a service station. 
The Esse.x County Prosecutor's office said Brown tried to flee as officers strug­gled to gain control of the car, and that three officers opened fire when he drove directly at one of them. The three were treated at a hospital for minor injuries. 
A 16-year-old Newark boy who was riding in the backseat was arrested, and authorities said he would be charged with being in possession of a stolen automobile and assaulting po­lice officers. 
A third person who jumped from the car as police followed it was being sought, said Ray Weiss, a spokesman for the Essex County prosecutor's of­fice. 
The shooting was under in­vestigation and the case will be reviewed by a grand jury, said First Assistant Essex County Prosecutor Peter Francese. 

AIDS marriage law overturned 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY 
A Utah law that invalidated the marriages of people with AIDS was voided by a federal judge at the request of two fam­ilies and the state itself. 
U.S. District Judge Aldon Anderson ruled that the law violated the federal Americans With Disabilities Act and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. 
The disabilities act says a public entity may not discrimi­nate against a person with a 

Arrest made in campus slaying 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
A 27-year-old man whose bloody palm print was found at an apartment where a college student was stabbed to death and her roommate gravely wounded was arrested Sunday on a murder charge, police said. 
Richard Anthony Meissner was charged with the slaying of Gina Marie Langevin and the attempted murder of her room­mate, Jena Hull, the Alachua County Sheriff's office reported. 
Deputies responding to a re­port of screams at the Garden Apartments on Saturday night found Hull, 24, cut and bloody and clinging to a second-story railing. Langevin, 26, was 






ST. EDWARD'S 
HALL FORUM 
Father Beauchamp 
Executive Vice President speaks on "TARNISH AND THE DOME" 
Wednesday, September 22 7:00p.m. At St. Edward's Hall 
physical or mental impairment limiting major life activities. 
"AIDS is such a physical im­pairment,'' Anderson wrote in Friday's ruling. 
Attorney Brian Barnard sued in July on behalf of two married couples and their children, who would be considered illegiti­mate if the parents' unions were voided. The women had contracted the virus before their marriages. 
Gov. Mike Leavitt an£! Attorney Gener~J Jan Graham agreed the law was probably 
found dead of multiple stab wounds inside the apartment. 
Hull, who suffered multiple stab wounds to her head and body, was listed in critical con­dition Sunday at North Florida Regional Medical Center. 
Meissner's bloody palm print was found on a wall in the apartment, said Lt. Emery Gainey, a sheriff's spokesman. 
Another roommate, Eden Mathews, also picked Meissner from a photo lineup as the man who came to the apartment door and asked to see Langevin, Gainey said. 
Neither woman was sexually assaulted, Gainey said, and there were no signs of forced entry to the apartment or that a robbery had taken place. 
invalid, but they didn't want to make the admission in court. They did agree to block en­forcement of the law until the next legislative session, but Barnard said that wasn't enough. 
"These are sick people," he said. "They might die at any time.... We said we would vig­orously pursue the suit." 
The women had feared that an insurance company would take advantage of the statute and refuse to pay health bene­fits in the event of their deaths 



Purdue 


Road Trip-

Catch the Action! 

Notre Dame vs. Purdue Septen1ber 25th 
Round trip bus transportation to Ross..Ade Stadiun1 (Buses leave at 10:00 atn fr01n CCE) 

Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Student tickets to gatne now available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Happy Birthday, 
Erica! 
You may be 18, but you're still our little girl! 
Love, MomandDad 


Monday, September 20, 1993 
The ObseoverfT.J. Harris

Showing America's colors 
Navy ROTC students salute the flag as it is raised on the main flag pole of South Quad. The flag raising was part of the POW/MIA Awareness Week ceremonies. 

Canadian autoworkers approve Chrysler contract 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

Chrysler Corp.'s Canadian employees overwhelming ap­proved a contract Sunday that creates new jobs, expands holi­days and raises wages 4.5 per­cent over three years. 
The results affect 10,500 workers at Chrysler's six Canadian plants. 
The three-year deal was hammered out last Tuesday just minutes before a midnight strike deadline. It marked the first time in six rounds of con­tract talks that Canadian au­toworkers have reached a ten­tative accord without going on strike. 
The deal calls for increases of two percent this year, 1.5 per­cent next year and one percent in the final year of the contract. Assembly workers earn an av­erage of about $15 an hour. 
The Canadian union will use its agreement with Chrysler as 
-···­
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
1'\0RtftU CtnTtR 
fOR Tttf cfi RTS 

A TREK 
CONTEMPORARY DANCE THEATRE 
} 
.<""' 


FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 AT 8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S-NO COMMUNITY ADULTS $4, STUDENTS $3 A JOHN M. DUGGAN EVENT 
Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in Olaughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626. 
. IB--­
Srunt Mary's Colle~ 
NOTRE DAME·INDIANA a blueprint in talks with Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp., which employ more than 40,000 in Ontario and Quebec. 

The union was expected to announce today which of the remaining two automakers will be its next target. 
The Chrysler deal provides for the creation of more than 600 jobs early next year by the addition of a third shift at the Windsor plant which makes the popular minivan and at a busy LH sedan factory in Brampton. 
The agreement gives em­ployees an extra three days off with pay, which combined with two existing floating days, gives them an additional week's va­cation. That provision alone will create 250 jobs. 
Chrysler's six plants are lo­cated in Ontario. Two are in Windsor where its headquar­ters are located, one is in Toronto, two are in Brampton and one is in Ajax, just east of Toronto. 
~~~~-~-~----~~-~----~--­
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Time announces major reorganization 
By DAVID KALISH 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Time Inc. announced a sweeping reorganization Sunday aimed at cutting costs while positioning the company for future growth. 
The reshuffiing includes man­agement changes at Time Inc.'s core New York-based maga­zines, some staff reductions, and the creation of a new busi­ness to market company prod­ucts across a range of media. 
"These latest moves will en­able Time Inc. to expand its magazine, book and multimedia businesses while continuing to enjoy healthy earnings," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Reginald Brack Jr. 
The changes affect Time, Life, Fortune, Sports Illustrated, Money, People and Entertainment Weekly maga­zines. 
Time Inc. said it would give each magazine more respon-
Alcohol lobbyists battle over tax 
By JIM DRINKARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Tensions in the alcoholic bev­erage industry have erupted into open warfare over which sectors of the business ---'-beer. wine, or hard liquor -should be taxed to help pay for President Clinton's health re­forms. 
The president of the National Beer Wholesalers Association last week wrote a letter accus­ing his counterpart in the liquor industry of mounting "an all­out attack" on beer that "has placed the common interests of the licensed beverage indus­tries in great jeopardy." 
NBWA President Ronald Sarasin told Fred Meister, pres­ident of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States (DISCUS). that Meister "has done more to damage the li­censed beverage industries than all the activities of our most avowed critics." 
The White House still had not reached final decisions Sunday on the precise mix of new taxes it would seek to finance the health care plan. A late draft called for $105 billion through the year 2000, and there were clear indications that a major part would come from a hike of roughly 75 cents a pack in ci-
Watch for The Observer's coverage ofthe signing ofthe National Service Act, coming this week. 
September 24, 1993 Students $8 Stepan Center Bpm General $15 

Tickets available at the Info. Desk at LaFortune 
THE 

SAMPlES IN CONCERT 

mJDMUNIOlfiO.UD 
sibility for financial perfor­mance while trying to improve the quality of each. 
Under the reorganization, new division presidents who oversee publishers will head Time and People magazines. Sports Illustrated already has a president. Fortune and Money magazines will share a group publisher. 
Staff reductions will come mostly through attrition, the company said. There were no estimates of total job reduc­tions, but cuts will be minimal, Time spokesman Peter Costiglio said. 
The moves come as the mag­azines struggle to recover from the industry's recent recession. In the first eight months of 1993, ad pages at Time maga­zine dropped 11.8 percent from the same period during the year before, according to Publishers Information Bureau. That compared with a 2.5 per­cent increase at U.S. News and 
garette taxes. Other revenue could come from a hit on alco­holic beverages. 
Clinton is due to unveil the plan in a speech to Congress on Wednesday night. 
Sarasin's Sept. 15 letter, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press, was writ­ten in response to an appeal by Meister to Clinton not to focus any new taxes on hard liquor. 
In a letter to Clinton on Sept. 3, Meister told the president that "beer, not liquor, is the beverage of choice of the young and drivers." And he said a rumored proposal to single out distilled spirits for new taxation "would perpetuate a 'beer sub­sidy' that is not rational and that sends the wrong message to young people.'' 
Meister's letter was followed by a blitzkrieg advertising cam­paign calling a liquor tax unfair and pointing out that 42 per­cent of the price of a typical bottle of liquor now goes for taxes. 
The beer, wine and liquor in­dustries, like many relatively narrow special interests, have banded together over the years with cigarette makers to lobby against new excise levies -so­called "sin taxes" -on their products. 
But such groups also live in constant fear and suspicion World Report and a 2.8 percent decline at Newsweek. 

Ad pages at Sports Illustrated dropped 16.6 percent, Money fell 7.2 percent and Fortune fell three percent, PIB reported. 
Time Inc. also said it would develop and acquire businesses that fit into its strategy of mar­keting its products and services across a range of media outlets. 
Other plans include creating a national sales force to serve advertisers who want to place ads in more than one maga­zine. 
The management changes, which take effect Monday, in­clude: 
•Time 
magazine Publisher Lisa Valk Long becomes presi­dent. Jack Haire, regional ad sales vice president in Chicago, becomes publisher. 

•David 
Long, Sports Illustrated's regional ad sales vice president, becomes pub­lisher. Donald Elliman Jr. con­tinues as president. 


that their goals will be sold out when the time comes for the coalition to cut fmal deals. 
The alcohol-tobacco alliance, the Coalition Against Regressive Taxation, already hall been fractured this year by Clinton's signal that cigarettes would bear the brunt of new taxes to pay for health care re­form. 
Meister's letter to Clinton struck the most sensitive nerve of the beer industry. He pointed to the disparity between the taxes on an ounce of alcohol in the form of beer or wine, and in the form of distilled liquor. By that measure, liquor taxes already are far higher. 
"The long-held goal of the spirits industry to force up the taxes on beer and wine is now clearly exposed, and DISCUS has stooped to astonishingly low levels to accomplish its purpose," Sarasin wrote to Meister. Copies of his letter also were distributed to the NBWA's board of directors and its state executives. 
"Why DISCUS thought it was necessary to dump on beer and wine is beyond me," Sarasin said. "Why should the beer and wine industries continue to work with DISCUS on any issue when it has clearly indicated it intends to destroy us by dra­matically raising our taxes?" 
------------~ ---~ ~---------~---~------­
Monday, September 20, 1993 

page6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Australia to be a republic 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN, Ireland 
Australian Prime Minister Paul Keating told Britain's Queen Elizabeth II that he hopes to declare his country a republic by 2001. 
Keating took the unusual step Sunday of issuing a statement about his formal audience with the queen on Saturday at Balmoral Castle. 
"I explained to Her Majesty that, notwithstanding the deep respect and warm affection felt towards her by the Australian people. there was a growing feeling that Australia should make the necessary constitu­tional changes to allow the ap­pointment of an Austpalian head of state," he said. 
The changes are needed to clarify Australia's identity as an independent nation, Keating's statement said, adding a refer­endum would be needed to ap­prove the constitutional amend­ments. 
Australia has been an inde­pendent nation since 1901, but the British monarch has re­mained its titular head of state as in other former colonies, such as Canada and New Zealand. 
The queen is represented in Australia by a governor-gen­eral appointed by the govern­ment, but many Australians be­lieve the country should have a resident, elected head of state. 
Keating said it would be ap­propriate for Australia to be­come a republic by 2001, the centenary of the federation of its individual states. 
Australia would remain a member of the Commonwealth, a 50-nation association of Britain and her former colonies, and would welcome visits from the monarch "as head of the Commonwealth and the Queen of the United Kingdom," Keating said. 


A guitarist from Oliver Syndrome shows his talent fo_r the fans. Oliver Syndrome played Friday at Saint Mary's Havican F1eld. 
THE TRAVELERS 
. 

ACCENT and TTMP Programs 
will be at 

Engineering Industry Day 
If you have an interest in: 
Information Systems or Telecommunications 

and want to put your technical skills to use with a ·company that applies technical solutions within a dynamic business environment, please stop by our booth and talk with us. 
ENGINEERING INDUSTRY DAY 
r::rr Dinner on Tuesday, September 21 
Fair on Wednesday, September 22 
TheTravelerSj' 
America's Umbrella sM 

Monday, September 20, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Main parties hurt in German election 
By LARRY THORSON general of the Christian . enter the state legislature. In Associated Press Democrats. 1991 they scored 1.2 percent. The main parties "will have The extreme rightist German HAMBURG, Germany to work against the anger of the People's Union, which did not 
Voters rebuffed mainstream little people," said the Social run the last time, got 2.8 per­parties Sunday in Hamburg Democrats' incumbent mayor, cent of the vote. state elections, and a far-right Henning Voscherau. Both right-wing parties cam­party was close to entering the The vote kicked off a year of paigned on anti-foreigner legislature, according to elections in Germany, including themes, blaming refugees for preliminary results. national parliamentary elec­the country's rising unem­
Official results will be an­tions in the autumn of 1994. ployment. 
nounced later this week after a The Hamburg election has The Social Democrats were at recount. But the procedure is been closely watched to see the 40.4 percent, down from 48 largely a formality and not ex­strength of the far right, which percent in 1991. The Christian pected to alter the results. has had a resurgence in Democrats were at 25.1 per­
The left-leaning Social Germany since the country re­cent, down from 35.1 percent, Democrats, who have ruled unified in 1990. Radical right­and the centrist Free Hamburg all but four years ists have won seats in recent Democrats were at 4.2 percent, since World War II, lost their years in three of Germany's 16 down from their previous 5.4 
majority but remained the state parliaments. percent. largest party. Neither of the two rightist Losing its seat in the 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's parties running in the election Hamburg legislature is a blow Christian Democratic Union lost had enough to enter the legisla­to the prestige of the Free almost a third of its support ture. But their combined per­Democrats, the junior partner from the previous election in centage of 7.6 percent was sure in Kohl's national coalition. 1991, according to results from to worry the major parties. "The voters have given the all 1,679 precincts. The radical rightist people's parties a thundering 
"It's a heavy loss for us and Republicans got 4.8 percent of slap in the face," said Werner also for the Social Democrats," the vote, just shy of the five Hoyer, secretary-general of the said Peter Hintze, secretary-percent minimum needed to Free Democrats. 
Rivalry deepens in Russian power struggle 
Associated Press Russian but a Chechen, a dark­trying to create "a new dicta­skinned, mostly Muslim mi­torship." He said Yeltsin was MOSCOW nority group from the Caucasus "waging war against the state" 
A spokesman for Boris Yeltsin Mountains. There is wide­and following orders from the hurled thinly veiled ethnic slurs spread prejudice in Russia West. Sunday against the president's against Chechens, who are Yeltsin offered a compromise chief rival, as the country's often called gangsters. in the struggle Saturday, how­leaders intensified their bicker­Kostikov accused ever, saying he would agree to ing. Khasbulatov of placing "clan early presidential elections if 
The remarks about parlia­interests" above Russia's na­the parliament would agree to ment speaker Ruslan tional interests and said the new legislative elections. Khasbulatov came a day after speaker displayed "the opposite Neither Khasbulatov nor Yeltsin proposed early elections of Russia's national character." Yeltsin's rebellious vice presi­to settle Russia's bitter power Russians "will not yield to the dent, Alexander Rutskoi, re­struggle. false slogans and promises of a sponded directly to the com­
In a written statement from stranger. The destiny of Russia promise offer. the Kremlin, Yeltsin's press must be, and will be, decided Hard-line lawmakers have secretary, Vyacheslav Kostikov, by Russians themselves," resisted previous calls for early clearly alluded to Khasbulatov's Kostikov added. elections because it likely ethnic background. On Saturday, Khasbulatov would cost many their jobs. 
Khasbulatov is not an ethnic told legislators that Yeltsin was Rutskoi called Saturday for restoration of the Soviet Union, saying Yeltsin was turning Russia into an economic basket case. 
He suggested the president should be prosecuted for "all
ACourse In 
that has happened to the nation," the Interfax news
Econo ics. 
Free Willy (PG) 1:45 4:15 6:45 9:00 
Jurassic Park (PG13) 
1:30 4:15 7:00 9:45 
Striking Distance (R) 
2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 
The Secret Garden (G) 
2:00 4:30 6:45 8:45 
Sleepless In Seattle (PG) 
2:30 5:00 7:15 9:30 
True Romance (R) 
2:15 5:00 7:30 10:00 

t:li$.lo~•~no:Q.. bitt~ f~rfl1lJ~dhe · wgrk~;>,rs ·ill,··.failing d indu.stl'j~s the 
Allied with the Alliapce. were the Polish Peasant's Party and the UniQn of Labor, which un­like the other two h~:~.s roots in Solidarity~. 
' ' ' 
The.Peasant's PaJ:ty.~foi-Jn~rof the· CommuPillW .til tlie hber-stamp Cold \'\l'llf(lllY!!. finished second. with an·esti­mated 16 percent ofthe vote, 
.· INFAS said. It advocates cheap credit and minimum· prices for farmers. 
Union of Labor, the most ide­ologiCally leftist of the, major 
i;J,.H~~~i;l.liUli:U:: ,•. . . . . . . • .. .. 6,6 . .· Of 

Students can get great haircuts from professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality. 
r------1r ------Jr-------l 
;$1.00 Off: 1 $5.00 Off: :20°/o Off : 
I t I IHalrcu I I 1 I  p mer  I 1AII Haircare1 I I Regis. Nexxus, Paul Mitchell. II I B1olage &VaVoom I  
With student!D No double discounts  1 1 I I  With studenti.D No double d1scounts  1 1 I I  With student W No double discounts  1I  
I  reg. ss 95  I I  I I  I  

L!Jia~~.S~J L~~erC~_J L_M~~~C~J 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 
c Req1s CorporatiOn 1992 
277-3770 

SOPHOMORES! GET INVOLVED 
Apply for the position of 

JPW Sophomore Committee Chairperson! 
Applications available at 
LaFortune information desk September 20..24. 
Application deadline September 24! 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
New. Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Hero man Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Spotts Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accc:nt Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comm~ntarics, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-454I Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 63I-53I3 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 63I-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Analysis of homosexuality vague 'Well-meaning' views 
Dear Editor: softness of Americans in gener­graphs later we find Ozersky al. cheerleading for "moral assimi­
toward gays questioned 
In his column (The Observer, The premise that homosex­lation". He does not condemn Sept. 16), Josh Ozersky, though uality as an innate characteris­homosexuality for being intrin­Dear Editor: isn't there something strange certainly well-meaning in a tic, like that of gender or race sically unnatural and disgust­that lesbianism appeals to him vague, muddled sort of way, entails the conclusion that ho­ing, but because it is "more or Three thoughts in response to while gay sex is the ultimate 
evil? This doesn't sound in

gives a complete misanalysis of mosexuality is not a moral less shameful to sleep with Josh Ozersky's comments on homosexuality, both as a moral characteristic, assuming free­dozens of people", something homosexuality (The Observer, keeping with the Church's dic­and social phenomena. He will is a necessary condition of which also applies to hetero­Sept. 16): tates. Could the discrepancy lie 
himself admits this, "I am as moral acts. Ozersky buys this sexuals. Thus, his reasoning in the fact that traditionally it baffied as the next man", and premise, even if he does not culminates in the assertion that Ozersky speaks of a "well­has been easy for men to objec­
meaning trend to minimize tify women, and that, in his
his colqmn proves this conclu­understand the conclusion it "Few decent people, I think, homosexuality by blending it fantasies of two lesbians mak­
sively. However, Ozersky's rea­brings, "For people born really have anything against soning, if it can be called so, gay ... ". One can imagine Ted real love, whatever its mode..." into comics (Doonesbury), ing love, he imagines himself reveals that he is solidly in lib­Bundy following Ozersky's gen­His assertion is as confused as thrillers (The Crying Game), sit­making a trio of it? That he 
coms (the Seinfeld "outing" would receive double pleasure?
eralism's fold. Indeed, he is but eral assumption: ''I'm sorry his thinking. A natural sense of another aspect of liberalism' s your honor, but I was born a "decency" implies a "good" episode), and so on." Minimize Or is that women's actions, be­Promethean nature. serial murderer. As a result, I which implies moral standards homosexuality? Minimize the cause they are less significant, 
Ozersky claims that have had to live a life in se­grounded in nature. Ozersky importance of the issue of ho­aren't threatening in the same Doonesbury is part "of a well­crecy, fear, and fugitive desire. must assert if he is to hold his mosexuality in our culture, or sense as a man's actions would meaning trend in recent years If only Hollywood would mini­argument, that there is no such homosexuals themselves? be? Could it be that there is to minimize homosexuality" by mize my genetic characteristic thing as natural decency -all Minimize is a confusing word to something particularly threat­
incorporating it into popular in comics and sitcoms, people decency, and morality must be use; as he uses it, it means to ening to him as a man because media. This is wrong. It is a could understand that serial "value judgments" based on an cease to draw distinctions be­he conceivably could become 
tween (which apparently fright­the object of a homosexual's
belligerent assault of our sens­killing is not a moral abomina­amoral "love". We can see that es, and moral dignity, by the tion, but something as natural love, in this context, is convert­ens him -it would no longer gaze? And does this explain 
be so easy to ostracize homo­why women, in his view, don't
media in an effort to ram tbeir as being a man having sex with ible with the will, unrestrained "alternative lifestyles" down another man. I can't darn well by either nature or reason. sexuals), but its most common seem to have a problem with our throats wanted or not. The help that can I?" I have, I trust, exposed the use is for debasement. (Possibly lesbianism, because we're all 
this was a subconscious word so used to being objectified that
fact that Ozersky perceives it to Natural law is the basis for liberal basis of Ozersky's 
be an attempt at minimization both the Catholic teaching on "thinking". Like all good liber­choice which belies his true it doesn't matter if it's a man or 
rather than legitimization and abstinence, birth control, and als, Ozersky holds onto a feelings toward homosexuals, a woman doing the objectify­protest against traditional homosexuality. Ozersky's com­"morality", but that morality al­or homosexual males, to be ing? morality is a direct result of his plete lack of understanding of ways, at bottom, presupposes more precise.) Is it minimizing 
misunderstanding of the nature natural law, and reason in gen­that the human will triumphs the issue to accept homosexu­There's something deeply dis­of homosexuality as well as evi­eral, allows him to call this rea­over nature. The same nature als as part of our culture? And turbing about this whole 
what is "well-meaning" about process, about his ability to
dence of the hidden success of soning "pretty thin soup." Is no which condemns homosexual­their propaganda on the mental surprise then, that two para-ity, also affirms, the belief that this "minimization?" If speak for the ordinary hetero­
minimization is used in the sexual male (the power of defi­"all men are created equal . I 
wonder if Ozersky knows that sense of integration, then well­nition is incredibly strong and the great Nazi propaganda meaning is well-meaning, not something to be over­movie was titled, "The Triumph except that his use of it sounds looked), about his view towards of the Will." It also, like suspiciously pejorative. women, about his view towards gay men, about us/them, sub­
Doonesbury, was an attempt to Ozersky considers himself to ject/object ways of relating.

"minimize" nature by ignoring natural differences (liberalism), be "an ordinary heterosexual And that he thinks he's being and similarities (Nazism) for male" -and says from this per­"decent" -and reasonable, as a "more or less" seriously com­
the love of will, and hatred of spective, male homosexuality is 
"the Law's of Nature and the "worst thing in the world." mitted Catholic. Nature's God." However, regarding lesbianism, 
"neither are men any too CHRISTINA COGDELL ANDREW FESKE revolted by lesbianism: far from KOEHL Law School it, if the truth be known." Now, Graduate student in American Studies 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


YOUR PROPOSAL IS COMPWTUY IN'313NSI­TIV8 70TH& FetUN6S lf MINORmBS ON THIS CAMPUS! IT IS IU­AOVISW, IU-TIMet?, 
ANO SMACI<S OF / RACI&JM! 
YOUMAYHAV& @0IN7CNTIONS, 
ow F!<J£N'f), F3llT 
YOU'!<£. 60/Nt3 '5TRAIGI1T 70 Htu. FOR. THIS ! 
W&U NaT OVer< 71-115. IT'S 
MARRJAG£­
R&LATW. 
~I 

''people ask me, 'how do 
you sleep with that schedule?' Like a baby. wake up every two hours and cry." 
Lou Holtz ND Head Football Coach 

Monday, September 20, 1993 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 
CHARLES RICE , RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Church's authority on natural law not limited 

The subject of natural law ther a merely sectarian Catholic tively wrong is not to judge the justice are regulated by no ting us to be certain that the comes up frequently in The teaching nor even a Christian subjective culpability of the per­fixed standard: the ablest and teachings we follow are God's Observer as well as in class­invention. Aristotle and Cicero son who does it. To be morally the purest men have differed own truth. rooms. It may be helpful at the affirmed it. Everything is gov­culpable, one must know it is upon the subject." If Iredell is start of the year to try to get the erned by a natural law accord­wrong and yet choose to do it. right, the natural law is inde­"Everyone can see" said Pope concept straight. "A just law," ing to its own nature. Thus a We generally have neither the terminate and relatively useless Pius XII in his 1931 encyclical wrote Martin Luther King in his rock will sink and grass will right nor the capacity to judge as a higher standard for law on Christian marriage, "to how Letter from Birmingham Jail, grow. The natural moral law, the subjective culpability of and a guide for human conduct. many fallacies an avenue would "is a manmade code that which governs human conduct, anyone. Nevertheless, as Pope Suppose you think abortion, or be opened up and how many squares with the moral law or can be known certainly by rea­John Paul II said in Denver: military service, or whatever, is errors would become mixed the law of God.... An unjust law son. The first principle of the "Moral truth is objective, and a wrong:. But who are you to say? with the truth, if it were left is a code that is out of harmony practical reason is self-evident, properly formed conscience can Even if we recognize that there solely to the light of reason of with the moral law. that, in Thomas Aquinas' perceive it." St. Thomas is a natural law, how do we each to find it out, or if it were 
words, "good is to be done and described the function of the know for sure what it means? to be discovered by the private 
To put it in the terms of St. promoted, and evil is to be natural law as the "light of nat­interpretation of the truth Thomas Aquinas: 'An unjust avoided." The good is that ural reason, whereby we dis­Reason can attain to the truth which is revealed. And if this is law is a human law that is not which is in accord with the na­cern what is good and what is in moral matters. But if reason applicable to many other truths rooted in eternal law and nat­ture of the subject, whether a evil." The natural law is a rule were our only guide we would of the moral order, we must ural law." So, when Rosa Parks car or a man. It is good to feed of reason, promulgated by God find omselves in confusion. Our pay attention all the more to refused to give up her seat on gasoline to a car and not good in man's nature, whereby man intellects are weakened by orig­those things which appertain to the bus in Montgomery, to feed it to a man. It is not can discern how he should act inal sin and sincere advocates marriage where the inordinate Alabama, on Dec. 11, 1955, she good, i.e., it is evil, for a man to so as to achieve his end of sal­can be found on both sides of desire for pleasure can attack made a natural law statement. steal since theft is contrary to vation. most moral issues. Aristotle, frail human nature and easily Legally enforced racial segrega­the natural human inclination who was a fair student himself, deceive it and lead it astray." tion is unjust in light of the nat­to live in community. But whose natural law are sanctioned infanticide. Some ural law and a civil law that you going to apply? As Supreme Christians in the last century The guidance of the teaching mandates it is void. However, to declare that Court Justice James Iredell said upheld the morality of slavery. Church is essential if men are 
The idea of natural law is nei-theft, abortion, etc., is objec-in 1798, "The ideas of natural Today, people differ on the to achieve a consistently correct morality of abortion. They can't observance of the law written both be right. As St. Thomas in their nature. The Church, tells us, "If . . we consider one however, is not an academic action in the moral order, it is "superteacher" of natural law. impossible for it to be morally Rather, she incorporates the both good and evil." natural law and especially the 
teachings of St. Thomas, into 
"It was fitting," wrote St. her teaching of the truth, who Thomas, "that the Divine Law is a person, Christ. And she should come to man's assis­teaches that truth by the direct tance not only in those things authority of that divine person. for which reason is insufficient, but also in those things in In giving this direction, the which human reason may hap­Church is not merely seeking to pen to be impeded.... Hence persuade. Rather, although she there was need for the authori­desires that we be convinced of ty of the Divine Law to rescue the reasonableness of her posi­man from both these defects." tion, she is expounding the law. 
For this reason, when the 
Everyone has a pope, in the authentic teaching voice of the sense that everyone recognizes Church, whether the Pope or an ultimate arbiter on moral the bishops in union with him, questions. If that arbiter is not pronounces authoritatively on a the real Pope, it will be a pope matter of natural moral law, of the individual's own selec­the pronouncement's binding tion: Ann Landers, CBS News, force is not limited by the per­the Supreme Court, or the indi­suasiveness of the arguments vidual himself. On the other advanced. hand, Christ is God, the Church is his and the Pope is his Vicar Professor Rice is on the Law on earth. The institution of the School faculty. His column ap­papac:y is a gift of God, permit-pears every other Monday. 

Columnist finds 'Tarnished Dome' a convertient pretext to grind axe 
Dear Editor: 
In his column of Sept. 13, Kurt Mills appears to be trying -rather desperately -to rec­oncile his own deeply seated conflicts about the character of the school whose name will one day appear on his own diploma. 
His effort takes the form of rhetorical saturation bombing that indiscriminantly targets big-time collegiate football, the press, the Notre Dame student body, football fans and all oth­ers who, in his estimation, are not prone to endorse his unstat­ed but sufficiently perceptible conviction that the Looney and already been infected by the moral virus that, to his way of thinking, must necessarily attend major sports programs. Mr. Mills is resolute in his con­viction that "such programs, by their very nature, corrupt the educational mission of the uni­versity." 
Readers who may have only skimmed Mills' column might want to re-read it and to pay particular attention to the pat­tern of vocabulary he deploys. There is much to be inferred about him and his position from the semantic choices he makes. 
I offer a few especially perti­attempts at irony ("Lou Holtz ­AKA god"); and 4) a tendency to extrapolate in the most out­landish ways (case in point: his assessment of the supposedly deeper signification of the expression "We are NO"). 
The point is that Mills protesteth too much, and his rare homages to less strident modes of argumentation (end of paragraph five and the "may or may not turn out to be valid" with which he closes), do very little to reconcile the mean­spiritedness that subtends the main of his outburst. What is more, his determination to dis­tance himself from what he hoards of sports fans at Notre Dame, gets in the way of the analytical acumen he prizes, promotes, and which he sees as so severely wanting in the insti­tutions (press, University admi111istration, student body, Notre Dame/South Bend com­munity) that he is so quick to indict. 
Not once does he entertain the thought that the book itself may be severely flawed -in intent, interview technique and editorial manipulation; nor does he consider that Under the Tarnished Dome was a project designed for one basic purpose: to make money for Messrs. 

Schuster, in which regard the University of Notre Dame is the only viable prey. 
Have some, even many, Notre Dame supporters instinctively reacted against criticism of "their" school and team. Doubtless. For them, Notre Dame football has become an ideology and as with virtually all ideologies, there is ample room for misdirected ardor. I believe Mr. Mills has shown that he is no more immune to that brand of ardor than those he so soundly wants to spank. 
LOUIS MACKENZIE 
Associate Professor of Romance 

Yaeger book, Under the nent and, I think, enlightening perceives to be the dim-witted Yaeger, Looney, Simon and Language and Literature Tarnished Dome, is proper in instances: 1) his use of the spirit, if not provable in fact. broadest collective modifiers 
and substantives ("the entire Mr. Mills clearly has an axe to Notre Dame community"; grind, and I suspect that this "everybody here"; "critical book business represents a con­thinking seems to be sorely venient and timely pretext to lacking among [all] football grind away. And grind away he fans"); 2) his recourse to terms does -in a piece notable main­that pulsate with moral and ly for the sluggishness of its psychic outrage ("recoiled with argumentation and the lusti­horror"; "students are aghast"; ness of its barely disguised "disgusting display"; "persecu­biases. Typical of the tenden­tion complex"; "arrogance of tiousness that informs his piece the reaction was astounding"; is Mills' bent for suggesting that "lily-white"; "blind and anyone who reacts negatively to unthinking attitude by many the Yaeger/Looney book has fans [fanatics]"; 3) limping 


ACCENT 
page 10 Monday, September 20, 1993 
Love Thy Brother 
Chile program promotes service with studies 

By ANALISE TAYLOR 
Accent Writer 

On the west coast of South America lies a newly developed and invigorating academic experience for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's undergraduates: a semester abroad in Sanitago, Chile. 
The Chile program was added to the foreign study sites offered by the Office of International Studies in March, 1993. This program is similar to those at other cities, yet it also has some significant, intriguing differences. 
One of these differences is that stu­dents participating in the program will live with Chilean families in Santiago, as opposed to living in a dorm with only other Notre Dame or Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
Also, students will attend the Catholic University in Santiago, which is also attended by Chilean students. 

The net effect of these aspects is that it ensures that a student will become immersed in the culture and society of Chile, according to Father Don McNeill, CSC, director of Latin American Studies. 
McNeill was also involved in another special aspect of the program, helping to develop a course entitled, "Approaches to Poverty and Development." 
For five credits, students in this optional experiential learning course work with impoverished youth Santiago, attend seminars to get an understanding of the realities of poverty 
"I think the hile progam is the most rigorous and rnqst fruitful because of the Catholic University of Chile. It's one of the top schools in Latin· America." 
-Tomas Fernandez Chile Program Spring "93 
and development, and take classes about how religion, government and other groups have dealt with poverty and development. 
All participants take part in an orien­tation course of three weeks which includes intensive courses in Spanish conversation, perspectives on Chile and Santiago, and the history, culture, art, and politics of Chile. 
"I think the program offers a unique opportunity for students to enroll in courses with Chilean students at one of the best universities in South America [the Catholic University of Chile]," said Claudia Kselman, associate director of the International Study Programs. 
The program "also gives our students the opportunity to get involved in social 
service through our connections with the Holy Cross Fathers in Santiago," added Kselman. 
Zahm Hall senior Tomas Fernandez agrees about the merits of the universi­ty. "I think the Chile program is the most rigorous and most fruitful because of the Catholic University of Chile," said Fernandez, one of the first participants in the program. "It's one of the top schools in Latin America." 
Fernandez also described one of the unique aspects of his learning during his time in the Chile program. 
"Chile is in transition from a military government to democracy, so partici­pants will live the transition politically and culturally," he said. "It makes you struggle with the issues yourself." 
Going abroad may even answer stu­dents' questions about the Catholic faith, added Fernandez. "Chile is explicitly Catholic, and the experience could enrich the students' faith," he said. 

The first semester at the Catholic University in Santiago begins in early March and runs to July, with the second semester beginning in early August and ending in December. 
The orientation program takes place in the three weeks prior to the first day of classes. 
The cost of the program is un­determined, but has been a little less than a semester at Notre Dame, Kselman said, because of its connection with a program offered by the University of Wisconsin and the University of Michigan. 
An informational meeting is planned for Sept. 21, at 6:30p.m. in room 125 of DeBartolo. Deadline for applications is Oct. 15. 
Interested students should contact Claudia Kselman at 631-5882, or Father Tim Scully at 631-7052 or 631-6580. 
----~-­
i8' 
v 
TIGHT ENDS GET PLAY 
• Pete Chryple~wicz and the 
Irish tight endts get their first action as :receivers 
See page 2

The Observer!Teck Teng Senior Willie Clark runs away from Michigan State defensive tackle Dale Person on the way to a big gain. 
Kinder and (not so) gentler Irish romp 
Trio of backs do most of damage in second half 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
Freshman Randy Kinder seemed to hug every person outside Notre Dame Stadium. 
"This was a special game for me," said the East Lansing native, as relatives and friends engulfed him as he exited the locker room. 
It was a special game for all the Irish run­ning backs, as they combined for 283 yards rushing leading Notre Dame to a 36-14 win over Michigan State Saturday. Kinder shined the brightest, finishing with 94 yards on 12 carries. 
Kinder, Willie Clark and Lee Becton supplied the rushing offense the Irish lacked in its pre­vious two games, allowing Kevin McDougal to become even more effective through the air. The senior quarterback finished 17-23 passing for 185 yards and threw his first touchdown pass of the season. 
"We were much better offensively this week," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "Backs gave us a boost and I thought 
See BACKS/page 2 

JOCK STRIP 
McDougal 
passes, Failla fails 
P
aul Failla is a short yardage quarterback, not to mention a short tem­pered one. 
With just seconds remaining in Notre Dame's 36-14 rout of Michigan State, a flus­

,J 

tered Failla called a use­
,fi!fd:J1 

less timeout, bringing a 
JASON KELLY chorus of boos from the crowd. '----~------' 
After receiving some animated advice from Irish coach Lou Holtz, Failla returned to the field for the last play. 
He knelt down, let time expire and angrily pretended to throw the ball into the crowd. 
Calling the timeout was a bad mental lapse, but a forgivable one. What isn't quite so forgivable was Failla's remarkable lack of poise in the face of adversity. 
Playing quarterback at Notre Dame is a pressure-filled job, one that requires its occu-See KELLY/page 2 

------------------~-~---------­
page 2 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY Monday, September 20. 1993 
Tight ends finally able to display receiving skills 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Wri1er 
Irish opponents saw another aspect of the Notre Dame offense on Saturday when Lou Holtz unveiled the tight end pass for the first time. 
With a group of three of the more tal­ented tight ends in the country, it had been a mystery to many observers why Notre Dame had yet to utilize one of the more effec­tive weapons from last year. 
In 1992, the former starting tight end, Irv Smith, averaged 13.1 Oscar McBride yards per catch with 20 receptions for 262 yards while then­junior Oscar McBride had 5 receptions for 29 yards. 
While apparently waiting for the quar­terbacks to mature on the field, the Irish used senior McBride, sophomore Leon Wallace and sophomore Pete Chryplewicz in purely blocking roles against Northwestern and Michigan, but against Michigan State their responsibil­ities were increased. 
When asked why he finally decided to throw to the tight ends, Holtz quipped, "I got tired of answering the question at the Quarterback Club every week." 
He went on to explain that it is never a conscious decision to throw to the tight ends. 
"The read takes you where you have to go. There was nothing said that we were going to go to the tight end. We've run the same patterns from all forma­tions and, basically, whoever happens to be in the right place is the guy that is going to get the ball," said Holtz. 
After the game, Chryplewicz admitted that it had been a long time since the 
Backs 
from page 1 
Kevin McDougal performed well." 
For the second week in a row the turning point in the game came on Notre Dame's final drive of the first half. Taking over near midfield with 
1:04 left in the period, McDougal hit tight end Peter Chryplewicz with passes of six and 18 yards. 
After an 11 yard completion to Mike Miller, McDougal hit Chryplewicz for ten more yards to the four-yard line. On the next play, fullback 1lay Zellars found a seam across the middle and McDougal hit him for the first passing touchdown of the season for the Irish, and boosted Notre Dame's lead to 16­7. 
"Those drives right before half, we just have a way of getting it in there," said Holtz. "We don't do anything special or diiTerent. We just wallow and slop around and end up there." 
Notre Dame owned the second half. 


The Observer/Sean Farnan Junior tailback Lee Becton brakes into the clear for a big gain. 
tight ends have been used as receivers, but was quick to hope for the trend to continue. 
"They threw to us five times and none of us dropped it. Hopefully, that's a start," said Chryplewicz. 
Irish senior quarterback Kevin McDougal was duly impressed with his tight ends. He threw five passes to them and all five were caught for significant gains prompting McDougal to promise after the game, "If they keep doing that, I'll keep throwing to them." 
The first tight end pass of 1993 came on a third down and six situation in the first quarter. McDougal dropped a floater over the line to Wallace who ran to make it an eight yard gain and a first down keeping alive a drive which even­tually resulted in a touchdown. 
The play was equally effective with 
1:04 remaining in the first half when McDougal used Chryplewicz three times en route to a quick Irish touchdown. 
During the 49-yard march, Chryplewicz picked up six, 18 and 10­yard gains. On the two long gains, the sophomore from Sterling Heights, Michigan displayed his bulldozer-like rushing style which sent defenders reel­ing. 
Holtz was pleased with his young tight ends. 
"Chryplewicz and Leon Wallace have been playing a lot of tight end because Oscar McBride had a bad ankle," said Holtz. "I thought Chryplewicz played well. From what I saw I thought he caught the ball well." 
McBride got his slice of the tight end pass pie in the fourth quarter when junior quarterback Paul Failla found him open in the middle for a nine yard gain. 
Because of the injury hampering McBride, the entire tight end corps has 
• Player of the Game • 
Randy 

~ 
Kinder 
::;· ~ ~· 


6'1" 205 lbs. freshman Tailback 
• Playing against his home­town team, the East Lansing native rushed for 94 yards on only 12 carries, including a 33 yard burst in the second half. 
All-Big Ten tailback Craig Thomas was held to only four yards in the second half after gaining 56 in the first thirty-minutes of play. 
The Irish offense scored on two Kevin Pendergast field goals and on a one-yard run by freshman fullback Marc Edwards. A twelve yard touch­down pass from McDougal to tailback Lee Becton in the fourth quarter con­cluded the scoring. 
Notre Dame's defense looked impressive against the run and pass, lapsing only on the opening drive and the final series of the game. 
The Spartans were able to march 74 yards on 14 plays on their first possession, taking a 7-0 lead on Thomas' one-yard plunge. Their offense fell silent from there, until Mill Coleman caught a 5-yard pass from Jim Miller with 14 seconds left. 
"I thought after the first drive and the last drive, we played good on defense," said Holtz. "We couldn't have communicated better." 
The Irish defense also adjusted to a confusing tight end motion that the Spartans were using, one they hadn't shown this season but used against Notre Dame last year. 
"It took us a drive or two to realize what they were doing, but after that we were able to adjust," said line­backer Pete Bereich. 
The convincing win went against the prediction that Notre Dame would suffer a letdown after last Saturday's upset win over Michigan. 
"We've been through that kind of thing before, and we wouldn't let it (a letdown) happen," said Bereich. 

Pete Chryplewicz and the rest of the Irish tight ends played a big role in the offense 
G• • •
• 
Saturday against Michigan State. 
seen significant time on the field. Although Holtz is quick to praise the group, he is not ready to make any spe­cial changes in the depth chart or in the play calling. 
SEASON CUMULA TIVEA VERAGE: 
QUARTERBACKS McDougal had the best passing day of his career, looking more and more comfortable at the controls 
RUNNING BACKS Big day for Kinder against his hometown team, and Willie Clark and Lee Becton also played well 
RECEIVERS Played well as a unit, but a few dropped balls and some mental lapses kept them from a higher mark; TE performance hepled keep grade high 
0-LINE Opened big holes for the backs, leading to the best rushing day of the season 
:i.!"!~j~b against the rush, put pass 
rush was lacking 
LINEBACKERS Bereich played well, but they could have tackled better as a unit 
SECONDARY Prevented the big play, but Spartans were successful with underneath passes that kept some drives alive 
SPECIAL TEAMS Terrible coverage, bad returns, and a missed extra point brought them down a long way from a week ago 
COACHING Holtz outmatched Perles; good offensive mixture victimized MSU; defensive coaches made good adjustments after opening drive 
FINAL SCORE A solid overall performance keeps the Irish on the Dean's List 
The Observer/Sean Faman 
3.444 

11!4 

kA ~ 
L!!J 


"They performed very well against Michigan. We played all three of them today. We'll have to look at the film and see where we go from there," concluded Holtz. 
Kelly 
from page I 
pant to display a tremendous amount of composure. 
Failla doesn't appear to have it. 

When the fans expressed their dis­pleasure with him Saturday, his classless postgame display made him look more like a whiner than a win­ner. 
Yet somehow he remains a part of the offensive game plan. 
"I felt Paul was our short yardage quarterback this week," Holtz said, explaining why he twice inserted Failla after starting quarterback Kevin McDougal had led the Irish inside the Michigan State ten yard­line. 
"I didn't mind as long as we got in," McDougal said. 
It is really nothing more than a slap in the face to take a quarterback out after he has directed a long drive and give his backup the opportunity to score. 
"You're good enough to get us this far," Holtz seemed to be saying, "but you're not good enough to take us all the way." 
With Failla nursing a sore thumb, McDougal was good enough to take Notre Dame all the way to one of its biggest upsets in years last week against Michigan. 
It wasn't enough. 

Against Michigan State, McDougal completed 17 of 23 passes for 185 yards and two touchdowns. 
It wasn't enough. 

He is securely rooted in the starting position, but Failla's shadow still hounds him, adding extra pressure to every play. 
The battle for the starting job began in the spring, when Holtz named McDougal his No. 1 quarter­back and Failla No. 1-A. 
Both were overshadowed by Freshman Messiah Ron Powlus when fall practice began, but his broken collarbone thrust the co-quarter­backs back into the spotlight. 
Through it all, McDougal has been the ultimate team player, saying over and over again that the quarterback who gives the team the best chance to win should be on the field. 
That's McDougal. 
September 20, 1993 The Observer· FOOTBALL MONDAY page3 

The Observer/Sean Farnan The Observer/Tack Teng Michigan State center Mark Birchmeier throws Oliver Gibson to the ground after pulling his helmet off in the second quarter Craig Thomas runs into a blockade in the form of an of Saturday's game. Irish defender. 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Notre Dame cornerback Bobby Taylor sets up to hit Spartan running back Craig Thomas. 
The Observer/Tack Teng The Notre Dame defense converges on Michigan State running back Duane Goulbourne. 

'9.?.: 

The Observer/Tack Teng Irish quarterback Kevin McDougal runs away from Michigan State defensive end Rich Glover. 
SCORE BY QUARTERS NO RUSHING MSU RUSHING 
ATT YOS AVG TO LG 1 2 3 4 F Kinder 12 94 7.8 0 33 ATT YDS AVG TO LG 7 0 0 7 14 Becton 10 76 7.6 0 40 Thomas 15 56 3.7 1 21 0 16 13 7 36 Clark 7 37 5.3 0 8 Goulboume 6 13 2.2 0 7 
Zellars 6 29 4.8 0 11 Holman 1 0 0.0 0 0 Farmer 4 16 4.0 1 7 Miller 2 ·5 ·2.5 0 2 McDounal 5 10 3.3 0 15 Coleman 1 ·6 -6.0 0 -6
SCORING SUMMARY 
Edwards 2 7 3.5 1 6 
NOIPASSING

TEAM PLAY TIME MSU Thomas 1 run (Stoyanovich kick) 6:44 COMP ATT YOS TO INT LG 2 ND Farmer 1 run McDOU!Jal 17 23 185 2 0 21 
(kick failed) 13:54 Faila 2 2 17 0 0 9 ND Pendergast 26 FG 3:05 ND Zellars 4 pass from McDougal NO RECEIVING 
(Pendergast kick) 0:10 


3 ND Pendergast 23 FG 9:28 NO YDS AVG TO LG NO YDS AVG TO LG ND Pendergast 31 FG 6:10 Miller 5 65 13.0 0 21 Coleman 7 57 8.1 1 16 ND Edwards 1 run Chryplewicz 3 34 11.3 0 18 Abrams 4 26 6.5 0 17 (Pendergast kick) 2:26 Becton 3 31 10.3 1 12 Outlaw 3 33 11.0 0 17 4 ND Becton 12 pass from McDougal Mayes 2 24 12.0 0 13 Thomas 3 20 6.7 0 12 (Pendergast kick) 6:56 Stallard 12 12.0 0 12 Carter 2 23 11.5 0 15 
Jll 

MSU Coleman 5 pass from Miller McBrid•~ 9 9.0 0 9 Organ 2 16 8.0 0 9 
(Stoyanovich kick) 0:14 Wallaco 8 8.0 0 8 Holman 1 9 9.0 0 9 Clark 8 8.0 0 8 Goulbourne 9 9.0 0 9 Dawson 7 7.0 0 7 Zellars 4 4.0 4 

page 4 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY Friday, Spetember 20, 1993 

Holtz asks for depth and he gets it 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
Ask and you shall receive. 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz has been desperately searching for depth at the running back spots. After Saturday's win, he got what he was looking for. 
Eight different backs carried the ball, and the result was the best rushing performance of the season. Freshman Randy Kinder and former free safety Willie Clark turned in stel­lar performances in a rotation with starting tailback Lee Becton. 
The trio finished 1-2-3 in rushing, Kinder leading the way with 94 yards and Becton ripping off a 40-yard streak for the game's longest play from scrimmage. 
"They are all different kinds of run­ners," said Holtz. "They all bring something to the offense." 
Saturday each runner showed they can add more to the offense than just depth. 
Clark, who has flip-flopped between free safety and tailback since arriving in South Bend, may be the quickest and most elusive of the Irish but has failed to earn substan­tial time at tailback during his ca­reer. 
Saturday he finished with 37 yards on seven carries, caught an eight yard pass and also had a 30-yard scamper called back after a holding penalty. 
"It was good to get out there and get some carries," said Clark. "I see myself as both a tailback and a safe­ty, and today I was a tailback. Whatever the team needs me to do." 
Kinder didn't find his way into the endzone, but set up three of Notre Dame's scores with his breakaway speed. He hits the hole faster than the other two backs and is more of powerful runner. 
It was the first game that the fresh­


The Observer/Thomas Zipprich Randy Kinder maneuvers through a hole for one of his big runs Saturday. 
man back showed the fluid running style that made him one of the nation's top high school players in 1992. 
"The coaches stressed protecting the ball and I think I was worried so much about that I didn't just run nat­urally," said Kinder. "I gained my confidence as the game went on and I felt like I made some steps today towards becoming a good back." 
Kinder also had the motivation. Michigan State was his hometown team and he was ridiculed for not staying close to him after graduating from high school. 
"This was a very sepcial game for me," he said. "It was me against those greean and white jerseys." 
Becton remained steady, casually waiting for the blocks to form and taking what the defense gave him, which amounted to 76 yards on only ten carries. He is still the starter, but for now the three man rotation seems to be the way the Irish will lean in the remaining games. 
"The competition is good, it makes all of us work harder," said Becton. "It keeps the backs fresh. That type of rotation is really effective." 
Lost among the performance of the three tailbacks was a solid perfor­mance by fullback Ray Zellars and the first career touchdowns by fresh­man Robert Farmer and Marc Edwards. 
Farmer, who along with Kinder was slated as the Irish tailback of the future, carried only four times but amassed 16 yards. Edwards only got two carries, one being his one-yard touchdown. 
Zellars and Farmer combined with the top three tailbacks to give Notre Dame its best yards per carry aver­age of the season. None of the five averaged less than four yards per carry. Becton and Zellars also had a hand in the passing game, with Zellars adding a touchdown grab and Becton in on three pass receptions. 
"Coach Holtz told all the backs that we were going to get a lot of work," said Kinder. "We all seemed to do well and the line did a tremendous job blocking." 
The success of the younger backs may come at the expense of playing time for Zellars and Becton but nei­ther seems to mind. 
"It is our job to inform them of what they are going to face each week," said Zellars. "Things happen as the season goes on which the younger players are not used too. It is our job to make sure the under­stand what they are going to face." 
3 4 9 8 11 10 14 12 5 6 7 
16 15 18 20 
13 
17 21 19 
25 
18 
at press 
JBR 


en
-
0
Zc::c 
:EN 
QN 
CD.. 
® 

3 0 
SPECTACUlAR 
. SLICES Orderwithyour c:orn~ favorite toppings. Over 2 feet long. 
..::::=:::-....:...-:--..

30 inches.,.That's almost ayard of pizza. 
OMINATOB 
MONDAYS ~rs EITUESDAYS 
D 
OMZNAXO.R 
~rs 
SPECIAL 
CHEESE 

DOMINATOR $6.95 EXTRA TOPPINGS... $1.90EACH 
DOMINATOR DELIVERED TO STUDENTS ONLY 

ACCENT
Monday, September 20,1993 page 11 
Serve The Other 
Appalachia offers "experiential learning" 
ested in the seminar after a located in Mississippi, is a frrst­friend of hers participated dur­time seminar site where stu­ing one break and had a "terrif­dents will look critically at ic time." racism while simultaneously 
Hardin applied to participate working on housing repair pro­in the seminar during the jects.. upcoming break, and chose Students at this site will be Peace Place as one of her pre­working in a town where train ferred sites. tracks separate the black and 
"I thought it would be a good white sections of town, and chance to help people," said will, according to the Seminar Hardin. "I wanted something Learning Agreement, be able to that involved kids, because I view the "long term effects of work with children in Head systematic racism in housing, Start now, and I really enjoy economic, and religious are­that." nas." 
Another site is at the Along with witnessing such Marshall University School of eye-opening facts about the Medicine in West Virginia. U.S., students will also receive Flanner Hall senior Phil Tomsik one credit in theology upon worked at this site during the completion of the Seminar. spring break of his sophomore For each student, completion year. entails the writing of a short re­
A pre-med major, Tomsik flecldon paper about their chose this site because "I de­experiences, and the atten­cided that public medicine and dance of a two-hour follow-up public health was something I class:. was interested in. I had thought "The purpose of this class is about working in a rural area to give students an opportunity [after graduation], and I really to ta.lk about the things in the learned a lot about rural medi­culture which they learned cine." about, didn't know about, or 
De Porres Delta Ministries, were surprised about," said 


ommend the experience. "The you came to college?; How has friendship aspect is really re­your religious life changed?; warding, but these groups are and What are your future plans something deeper than simply and what about marriage? meeting on a friendship level," Senior Rap-ups also give se­said Chris Ford, a 1993 gradu­niors a chance to relax from ate and participant. their hectic life as they tie up 
"I got to see the direction loose ends and apply for jobs. other people were going and I These groups are great could talk with my peers and because sometimes we don't see if other people felt like I have the opportunity to talk as felt," Ford added. much about how to live life and 
Some suggested topics for generally be good people," this year include: Would you Roemer said. come to Notre Dame or Saint All seniors, no matter how Mary's if you could do it all confident they may seem on the over again?; Do you perceive outside, have fears of getting Stanford, "and to help the stu­dent get as much out of the seminar as possible." 
To participate in the seminar. students must fill out a form (available at the CSC) where they list their prior social con­cerns/service experiences, what they want to contribute to the seminar and what they hope to learn from the seminar. 
Applications for the seminar are due at the CSC on Tuesday, September 21, and are avail­able at the CSC. Saint Mary's students have to pre-register at the SMC Registrar's Office prior to turning in the application form. 
The seminar costs $90, with all money going toward transportation to the site, hous­ing and materials at the site, and other operating costs of the seminar. 
There is a $40 registration fee (refunded to those not accepted) due with the applica­tion, with scholarships avail­able to those who cannot afford the seminar fee. Ilene Stanford can be contacted at 631-9473 for any questions. 
and fmding a job. 
"It was comforting to see everyone moving in different directions," Ford said. "I real­ized that we all need to find our own niche and not just follow what everyone else is doing." 
With commitment and gen­uine enthusiasm, "these discus­sion groups are mutually good for both the hosts and the stu­dents," Roemer added. 
Intrigued seniors who wish to make the commitment, meet some friends and take a load off their chest can sign up at the esc for $20; the deadline is 
By MATT CARBONE Accent Writer 
For thousands of miles along the Eastern seaboard, the Ap­palachian Mountains stretch majestically, an enduring testa­ment to the beauty of the United States. 
Nearby. in the strikingly im­poverished rural towns lying within the shadows of these breathtaking peaks, there is another. more disturbing testa­ment being made about our country, a testament to the dis­parities between the rich and the poor, between the beauty and the ugliness of the United States. 
The Appalachia Seminar, run annually by the Center for Social Concerns every fall and spring break, tries to teach Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students about these dispari­ties. 
It does this by sending approximately 120 students each break to various states within the Appalachia region, where they participate in vari­ous activities within the com­munity, including home repair, clothing and food distribution, farming and children's day care. 
According to the Seminar Learning Agreement which ac­companies the application form, the goal of the Appalachia Seminar is "to introduce the student to the culture and social issues of the Appalachia region through experiential learning." 
This "experiential learning" 
comes in the form of students 
performing physical labor for 
the community, and in discus­
sions with members of the com­
munity and others working at 
the site. 
With 127 spots available and 
around 180 applications 
received each year, some stu­dents must be turned away each year due to space con­straints, according to graduate student Ilene Stanford, Appalachia Seminar coordina­tor. 
But, she added, if a student was turned down once due to a lack of positions, it is almost certain that that student will be accepted for a future seminar. 
Upon acceptance into the seminar, students will attend 

two two-hour orientation semi­nars at the esc. where students will be given background infor­mation about "what issues they will face and the culture they're going into," said Stanford. 
This October break, the 127 accepted students will travel to 11 different sites in Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee and Mississippi. 
Among the sites is a four-acre farm in Peace Place, KY. The farm is run by two Franciscan sisters, and aims to care for abused children who have been taken from their families; two to eight children live at the farm throughout the year. 
Students at this site will help in the maintenance of the farm and its buildings, as well as with a clothing distribution cen­ter run by the Sisters. 
Tara Hardin, a senior living in Siegfried Hall, became inter­
esc helps seniors reflect on four years 
By BEVIN KOVALIK graduation and have lots of Accent Writer nostalgia about leaving Notre Dame and their friends," 
These are the best four years Roemer said. of our lives. However, most of What began as a small us won't appreciate a good discussion over a meal in her thing until it's gone, and senior house blossomed into the cur­year is so chaotic most students rent Senior Rap-up sessions, don't have the chance to reflect where seniors discuss such on life and discuss their fear of issues as career anxiety, poli­
the future. tics and religion. The Center For Social Con­Last year, approximately 160 cerns (CSC), however, realizes seniors participated in the Rap­the hectic pace of senior year. ups, which met in groups com­
Through its Senior Rap-up prised of six men and six program, nostalgic seniors have women; the groups gathered the opportunity to discuss their together six times during their Notre Dame experience with a senior year at the home of a small group of fellow Domers staff or faculty host. and ponder the post-graduation The role of the students is to 
challenges which lie ahead. plan the entire meeting, includ­
Mary Ann Roemer, coordina­ing preparing the meal and tor of Senior Volunteer Pro­leading the discussion. "The grams for the esc. began the students own the group," said 
Senior Rap-up groups nine Roemer. 
years ago after she encoun­The primary responsibility of tered seniors during her post­the faculty hosts is "to try to graduate volunteer work who keep the night interesting and 
seemed sad to be ending their provide the seniors with a college years and entering the relaxed atmosphere which "real" world. allows students to get out of the "I saw many seniors near classroom," she explained. Some former participants in 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 20, 1993 
Saint Mary's soccer outlasts Rockford, 3-1 

By CHERYL GILLILAND 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's soccer team captured a 3-1 victory at Rock­ford College on Thursday, over­coming a tiring bus ride and slow field conditions to post their second win in their first three games. 
"It was a tough game after the long bus ride," said Senior captain Mandy Eiler. "The field had high grass so the game was a lot slower 
.d$· than usual." Tom Van Meter 
Senior Megan Dalsaso knocked in the Belles' first goal twenty min­utes into the game with an assist from Maura Sullivan. 
Rockford scored unexpected­ly on the Belles six minutes later, tying the game at one. 
"We were pretty lethargic at the beginning of the game," commented Coach Tom Van Meter. "We know we didn't play as well as we could have." 
The Belles came back with full force the second half. Dal­saso scored again to begin the half with an unassisted goal. 
"We really dominated the second half," said Van Meter. "Rockford wasn't able to get a shot off on us." 
"Rockford's goal was really unexpected, but we were able to pull out of it during the sec­ond half," added Eiler. 
With four minutes left in the game, freshman Brigid Keyes scored with an assist from freshman Lisa Nichols. 
"We played well once we got ourselves together after the long bus ride," said Nichols. "I feel that we've worked well to­gether as a team given that we've only been working to­gether for the three weeks that we've been here." 
Eiler also feels that the team has come together well. "We played well despite a rough start. Our defense was better, but we're still working on it." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 r..m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. Nl clasSifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fisheries.  WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS.  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 1  Need 2 USC GA's will pay in  Seeking information regarding  
NOTICES  Earn up to $2000-$4000 or more per month on fishing vessels or in  272-7233.  FSU GA! Call Sean @ x1223  USCurrency John 273-5828  European travel and backpacking for the summer of '94. Good time for  
canneries. Many companies provide  FOR SALE: NO TICKETS.  $$ WANTED! I $$  two frugal students. Please call  
Experience the ultimate of all  transportation and room & board.  277-1659.  HAVE GA's EACH HM GM  Theresa-x2496 or Bevin-x2569.TOP  
- sports-SKYDIVING! Train with  No experience necessary. Male or  271-1681  FSU and BC TIXII  10 REASONS TO COME  
Great Lakes Skydivers in Sept. and  Female. For more information  Have GA's to all Home Games &  to see the Chicano Secret Service a  
receive 10% off our 1st Jump  call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584  Mich. Call232-7316 from 7-8 p.m.  273-3930 Tracy  really good comedy troupe  
Course, with student 10. West  I really need 4 USC G.A.s­ Tues Sept 21 7:00 $3  
Michigan's oldest & most experi­enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­ FOR RENT  NEED GA FB TIX TO ALL  thanks! diane x4253  $$ WANTED! I $$  10. There are 3 of them. 9. That means they're really only $1  
ated. One hour North of South  HOME NO GAMES  FSU and BC TIXII  apiece.  
Bend. (616)628-4892  HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE.  CALL AARON X1868  I NEED 6 FLA ST. GA's. I HAVE$.  8. They don't suck.  
NICE ACCOMMODATIONS.  CALL BRIAN AT 4-1772. I have$!  273 -3930 Tracy  7. They're witty and insightful, with  
Typing  271-0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING  DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO  mastery of the nuances of language  
287-4082  MACHINE.  PITT GAs-WILL PAY BIG$$$$.  NEED PITT GA'S LARGE FAMILY  NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO USC.  and wisdom uncanny for their youth.  
ILOST & FOUND I  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS  CALL ALISA@ 4-1302. $$NEED STUDENT OR GA TICK­ WANTS TO SEE SIS IN BAND. CALL SHEILA x5609 or (614)459­0074  Please call Lisa after 5 P.M. at 232-2728.  6. They're pretty funny, too. 5. What else is there to do on a Tuesday night?  
LOST: Black trunk at the end of 92­ (219) 291-7153  ETS FOR PITT, FLORIDA STATE AND BC.$$ CALL JOANNE AT  Need 2 USC tickets, stud or GA  PERSONAL  4. It's rumored that one of them is named Raoul.  
93 school year. Full of sweatshirts,  -GRADUATE STUDENT ROOM­ 273-6588.  Need FSU tickets, stud or GA  3. What else have you done to cele­ 
NO softball items. Disappeared from  HOUSE @ ANGELA & PORTAGE  Call Dave at 4-3507  Ru Paul Schoaps is the lizard king.  brate Hispanic Heritage month?  
hallway In PW. Possibly put in  SHARE WITH OTHER GRAD  WANTED!!!!!!!!!!!!!  2. You can watch Beavis &  
someone's storage or mistakenly  STUDENTS. PRIVATE ROOM  need:FSU,PITT STUD & PIT GA  Bullhead & Speedracer and still get  
taken home. Reward. Please call  KIT., STUDY ROOM, $180 MO  3-4 G. A.'s  BILLX4022  Along came Wild Billy with his friend  there  
(313)856-6828  THRU MAY.  G-Man,  on time.  
COULD INCLUDE GARAGE AT  U.S.C.  NEED 1 Pitt GA/Stud.$$$ call Sue  All duded up for Saturday night...  
Found... One key ring in 203A  $30MO.  october 23 (fall break)  x2768  
O'Shag. To claim please call  START  I've been wondering this for a while  Hurley, I'm lost without you. I need  
Mike V. at 4-3661.  OCT 1. WE WILL CALL YOU.  call:  2 Pitt GA's needed. Will pay top $.  now--is the above a reference to Bill  you back-k. anderson  
POSTCARD TO  2725  Call4-2774.  Dailey and Greg Graceffa?  
WANTED  BOX 770 NO IN 46556 OR LEAVE VM  NEED 2 PITT TIX. GA'S OR  
MESSAGE (619)-299-0212  NEED GA'S FOR USC,FSU & BC  STUD. PLEASE CALL LISA  ADOPTION IS LOVE  can ya .... can ya drive?  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS I  CALL NICK X1777  x1297.  Loving Indiana medical profession­ 
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8  FOR SALE  $For Sale$  als eager to adopt newborn. MedicaVLegal paid. Confidential.  Did ya ever see a grown man ...  
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS &  FSU TIX NEEDEDIIII!III  Married Stud Tixbook  Call our home toll free to hear all  
PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  1990 NISSAN 240 SX, 5-SPEED,  CALL CRAIG @273-3942  Call after 5 pm  about us. Jaci and Jon 1-800-224­ 
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800­ LOADED, 13,000 MILES, MINT  PLEASEII  @273-3140  2429.  
678-63861  CONDITION. $11,000. 271-1839.  ••• NEW ••• NEW ••• NEW •••  
Need 2 Fla. St. GA's  Will trade 1 USC stud for 1 Pitt  COLOR COPIES &  
WE HERE AT STUDI0-5 ARE  100% pure cashmere $95 shawls,  Best offer-call T J 232-5030  stud. or GA. Call Nicole @X1268  TRANSPARENCIES at  
LOOKING FOR MODELS TO  $195 twin blankets, $250 queen  WEDNESDAY LUNCH FAST  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
POSE FOR POSTERS-N-CALEN­ 1-8D0-428-7825 X303.  NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  in the LaFortune Student Center  
DARS.THOSEINTERESTED  MATT@ 232-3870  WILL BUY 1 EACH FSU/USC OR  Over 600 students skipped one  
CALL 271-1371 OR COME IN  TRADE OCT 9 UM-MSU  meal per week last year.  
52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE  For sale ­3 tickets for Garth  271-8689 (CAL)  The results? Over $12,000  
10AM-6PM MON-FRI  Brooks. Oct. 9 (Sat.). Call 273­ NO vs USC -Need tickets for  donated to hunger relief.  AMY from ADS:  
8859.  10/23 game.Chris Marks  All I need is an FSU student ticket.  Think about it. Why not help us  Here's your personal.  
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­ 800-523-3139.  Tim x1517  make it $15,000 this year?  Toadies!  
Make money teaching basic conver­ Foosball table 4 sale. Tornado com­ Every student counts.  
sational English abroad. Japan,  mercial heavy duty. Good shape.  WANTED  Nedd 1 Pitt Ticket -GA or Student ­ Sign up this week at the dining  
Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to  $650.299-1644  PITT AND FSU TIX. X2756  so that my little brother can attend  halls, or call x4-4253 and leave your  
$2000-$4000+ per month. Many  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS.  the game. Will pay big bucks. Jim  name and i.d. number.  DON'T FORGET!!II  
provide room & board + other bene·  84 Buick Skyhawk, Reliable,  x1865  Washington seminar applications  
fits. No previous training or teaching  $1450/best offer, 273-5231 6:30­ WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  Thanks for thinking fast,  due to the CSC by Tuesday, Sept.  
certificate required. For more infor­ 9:00 pm.  GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST.  Would really appreciate 1 USC  World Hunger Coalition.  211!!1  
mation call: (206)632-1146 ext.  GA:s 2773097  Student ticket. Call Phil x0549  Turn it in today for the greatest Jail  
J5584  break-EVER! Call Meredith if ?s:  
BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  273-8967  
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS,  CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  $$$$NEED GA's-ALL HOME$$$$  NEED 2 PITT GA'S  DON'T FORGETI!III  
EARN CASH & GO FREEl!I  $$$$GAMES. Steve x1217$$$$$  &  Honey, GOD shrunk my hypothala­ 
Student Travel Services is now hir­ 2 BC STUDTIX  mus! glndlsmc po 194 NO IN  
ing campus reps. Call @800-648­ Original Macintosh 128K computer  #@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  x2300  46556  
4849.  with mouse and keyboard. $75 or  OK, so here's the question--first,  
best offer. Call Jesse at x3261  Help I I need four tickets to the  4sale STANFORD 4-3322  Larimore-Here is your personal  you're just hanging out within an  
need ride to Decorah lA or close for  Boston College game ....  classified ... Hope your day is going  indefinite time frame, then one day  
fall break-will pay gas$ & drive  Will buy or trade 2 BC GAs for 2 Pitt  better than Friday (pointy hats are  you start Hanging out with a capital  
Nate x1672  TICKETS  If you would like to make a hot babe's day with 4 tix, call Elisa at  or USC GAs. Kim @ x2545  for the birds!!) Love, Tara-­ 'H' (which, by the way, you can do for a LONG time ... ) and then you  
Desperately need a ride to and from  634-2703 ...  Wanted 2 USC tickets will pay top  start drivin' the bus--can you still be  
Cleveland for the weekend of Oct 2.  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  $.Call collect 206 462-7270. Ask for  YARD SALE:  Hanging out, or does this move  
Will help pay for gas. Call Phil  TIXS.272-6306  @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#  Don.  Tuesday only.  everything to another level  
x0549.  7:30-4.  (HANGING out, maybe? II)  
Help! I need 1 Pitt GA for my cute  Nintendo, toys, household goods.  
NEED G.A.'S-3 PITT, 4 USC, 4  will trade 2 PITT GA's for 2 FSU  little bro who wants to see NO play!  1135 N. Notre Dame Ave.  
Potter needs a date  FSU. PLEASE CALL Joe@ 1613.  GA's. 233-5130.  Call X4245 -Kristin  Great buys!  COME ON BABYII  

-----------------------------------------~ ---------------------------------------­
Monday, September 20, 1993 The Observer • BASEBALL page 13 
Braves pound lowly Mets to stay in control ofWest 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Tom Glavine became the first National League pitcher in more than 20 years to win 20 games in three consecutive seasons and the Atlanta Braves battered the New York Mets 11-2 to maintain their NL West lead at three games over the San Francisco Giants. 
The Braves, winners of five of six games on this home stand, are 31-7 since Aug. 8, when they were 8 1/2 games behind the Giants. 
Glavine (20-5), the NL's first 20-game winner this season, went six innings, allowing nine hits, two runs, walking one and striking out four. Ferguson Jenkins was the last NL pitcher to win 20 games at least three years in a row, doing it six straight (1967-72). 
Expos 6, Phillies 5 
MONTREAL 

The Montreal Expos, down to their last at-bat against Philadelphia, got a two-out, two-run single from Wil Cordero in the ninth inning to rally past the Phillies Sunday and keep the NL East race close. 
Cordero's bases-loaded hit off 
Mitch Williams (3-6) moved 
Montreal back within four 
games of the first-place 
Phillies. 
A loss would've dropped the 
Expos six games back with only 
13 left in the season, but they 
were helped by a key error in 
the ninth. Montreal has won 22 
of its last 26 games. 

Giants 7, Reds 3 
CINCINNATI 

Matt Williams hit two more homers, giving him 10 in his last 15 games, and drove in five runs as the San Francisco Giants completed a sweep of Cincinnati. The Reds lost their ninth in a row. 
San Francisco arrived at Riverfront Stadium with an eight-game losing streak that ended its 123-day stay in first place and let Atlanta take a four-game lead. The Giants outscored the Reds 26-4 to end the slide and start making up ground. 
Marlins 2, Cubs 1 
CHICAGO 

Chris Hammond allowed four hits in 7 2-3 innings and drove in a run with a squeeze bunt, leading the Florida Marlins over Chicago. 
Hammond (11-11), who had lost seven straight decisions since July 2, struck out four and walked three. Bryan Harvey struck out the side in the ninth for his 45th save in 48 chances. 
Steve Trachsel lost in his ma­jor league debut, allowing two runs and four hits in seven in­nings with five strikeouts and one walk. Jeff Conine hit his 11th homer in the first inning for the Marlins. 
Blue Jays 10, Twins 0 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Toronto won its eighth con­
secutive game and opened a 
four-game lead in the AL East 
as Juan Guzman scattered 
eight hits over eight innings 

WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER PROPOSED 
The Women's Re­source Committee has joinedforces with Student Government to support and supervise the estab­lishment of a Women's Resource Center on cam­pus. While awaiting ad­ministrative approval of the Center, the Committee will conduct its activities out of the Student Gov­ernmentconference room. 
With the increas­mg representation of 
women oncampus, student interest in issues such as rape, harassment, male/fe­male communication, safety, eating disorders, and career guidance has grownrapidly. AWomen's Resource Center would provide a place forallmem­bers ofthe ND community to find information related to these issues. 
The Center would include a library of infor­mation on various gender-

WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 20, 1993 
Sunday, leading the Blue Jays over the Minnesota Twins. 
Toronto, which had a team­record nine doubles by eight players, has its largest lead this season and a five-game advan­tage in the loss column with 13 games to go. 
The winning streak is the longest of the season for the Blue Jays. 
Red Sox 8, Yankees 3 
NEW YORK 

Frank Tanana, 7-16 overall this season, allowed eight hits and four runs in seven innings but New York made three er­rors and dropped four games behind division-leading Toronto with 12 games to go. 
Danny Darwin (15-11) gave up three hits and one run in six innings. John Valentin had three hits and drove in four · runs for Boston with an RBI double in the second, a two-run homer in the fifth tha put the Red Sox ahead 4-1, and a run­scoring single in a four-run eighth. 
White Sox 3, Athletics 1 
OAKLAND, Calif. 

Robin Ventura's two-run 
homer off Dennis Eckersley in 
the ninth gave the AL West 
leaders their 14th victory in 21 
games. 
Frank Thomas opened the. ninth with a single off Eckersley (2-4) and Ventura followed with his 22nd home run. 
Scott Radinsky (7-2) won in 
relief of Tim Belcher, and 
Roberto Hernandez got three 
outs for his 35th save. 

related issues, meeting rooms for women's groups and a support center for victims ofrape, sexual ha­rassment, and eating dis­orders. Itwould promote and encourage research related to gender issues, and, most importantly, the Center would provide much-needed space for womenandconcemedoth­ers to find support and un­derstanding. 
lnaneflorttoshowND's supportforsocial concerns, Student Government and Rev. William Beauchamp have organized a campus­wide coll(~ction for United Way. Moneywas collected at the MSU game this past weekend, and donations will be accepted at dorm masses. The mission of United W'ay mirrors ND's commitment to others, so please be generous. 


JOIN "FLOOD RELIEF '93" 
Student Government, incooperationwith several other campus organiza­tions, is offering ND stu­dents an opportunity to lend a hand to flood vic­tims in the Midwest . Ap­plications are now being accepted for a fall break trip to StLouis, where stu­dents will help local resi­dents clean up from the results of this summe.r' s devastating floods. 
Applications are avail­able in the Student Gov­ernmentOffice. Completed applications must be re­tumed by 5 p.m. on Sept. 
20. The trip should pro­vide a terrific opportunity for servict~ to a community in need. 
The trip is co-spon­sored by Student Govem­ment, C.I.L.A., The CSC, theAlumni Association, and Campus Ministry. 


--~~­
page 14 The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL Monday, September 20, 1993 
Browns' comeback victory highlight of NFL action 
Grow With Us. 
From Minnesota to Kansas, from Florida to Tennessee. from the United Kingdom to Japan and South America...you will find Cargill. We employ more than 66,000 employees at more than 800 locations in almost 60 countries. 
Where there's food there's Cargill. Our diverse businesses supply farmers and trade, store, process and transport agricultural commodities. In addition, we operate a wide range of industrial businesses and financial services. 
A key to our growth over the past 128 years is exceptional employees. We have a strong culture of keeping our people challenged with opportunities for career growth--including the chance to move to new positions in other divisions of the company. We reward good performance by promoting from within whenever possible. As a privately held company, we are able to make substantial reinvestments in our businesses to give our people the resources to achieve success. 
We invite you to consider growing with us. If you're looking for a career that offers plenty of challenges, relocation, opportunities for advancement. and a diversity of business options. Cargill may have a career for you.

lRV/tE 
tHitAID 
fEtRET 
a really funny comedy 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 
Yo, Vinny, way to go. You too, Eric. 
The Cleveland Browns, stymied most of the game, turned to backup quarterback Vinny Testaverde on Sunday. Testaverde turned their game around, replacing Bernie Kosar and leading the Browns from a 13-0 hole to a 19-16 victory over the Los Angeles Raiders. 
"Bernie is our starting quar­terback," Browns coach Bill Belichick said. "He had a little problem with protection. Vinny, on the other hand, scrambles around a little bit. That's what we brought him here for. He stepped up and did a great job for us today." 
Testaverde got plenty of help from Eric Metcalf, who re­turned a free kick 37 yards, then scored on a 1-yard run with 2 seconds remaining. The Browns had no timeouts when they called for the run, and Metcalf swept in untouched. 
"I felt good about it when they called the last play. I was a little surprised that no one touched me," Metcalf said. "This was a confidence-builder. We know now we are never out, we can come back." 
Kosar was lifted after strug­gling to an 8-for-17 perfor­mance for 71 yards. Testaverde finished 10-for-22 for 159 yards and guided the Browns on a 90­yard drive to make it 16-10. 
Raiders punter Jeff Goosett took an intentional safety, then Metcalf had his big return to the Los Angeles 45. Eight plays later, Cleveland .won it. 
Eight teams had byes this week -Miami, Buffalo, the New York Jets, Indianapolis, Chicago, Tampa Bay, Green Bay and Minnesota. 
Seahawks 17, Patriots 14 

At Foxboro, Mass., the Seahawks prevailed in a game between the top two picks in the NFL draft -Rick Mirer of Seattle and Drew Bledsoe of New England. 
Mirer, the No. 2 choice, was 12-for-16 for 117 yards and one touchdown before leaving with blurred vision in the third quar­ter. Bledsoe, the no. 1 choice, was 20-for-44 for 240 yards and a score, but was in­tercepted twice. 
"It's not fair to call it (a per­sonal duel) because everyone out there played hard," Mirer said. "I thought Drew played fine. I played all right, but the game is not just two guys." 
The Seahawks, up 17-0 early in the fourth quarter, received' 174 yards rushing and one touchdown from Chris Warren. Seattle won when rookie Scott Scisson's 54-yard field goal at­tempt bounced off the crossbar with 30 seconds left. 
Cowboys 17, Cardinals 1 0 
At Phoenix, Emmitt Smith came back from his long con­tract holdout and helped the champions to their first victory after two defeats. But it was Smith's replacement, rookie Derrick Lassie, who scored both touchdowns. 
Smith finished with 45 yards on eight carries in less than one half of action. Lassie had 60 in 14 carries and Troy Aikman was 21-for-27 for 281 yards. His favorite target was Alvin Harper with six receptions for 136 yards. 
The Cardinals (1-2) were held to 68 yards rushing. Chargers 18, Oilers 17 
At San Diego, John Carney set the NFL record for consecu­tive field goals at 29 with six against Houston, the final one for 27 yards with three seconds remaining. The Chargers are 2­1 and Carney scored all the points in both victories. 
The Chargers intercepted Warren Moon four times, with Junior Seau getting two. Moon was lifted late in the game, as was San Diego's starting QB. Stan Humphries. 
After Houston backup Cody Carlson directed the Oilers on a 53-yard drive to AI Del Greco's 27-yard field goal for a 17-15 lead, San Diego backup John Friesz moved the Chargers 7 5 yards before Carney's winning kick. 
"I was hoping we'd score a touchdown and I'd only have to kick the extra point," Carney said. "But we moved it down and got it close. That made it nice for me." 
49ers 37, Falcons 30 At San Francisco, Steve Young caught his own deflected 
pass to set up Ricky Watters' 2­yard TO run, and the 49ers (2­
1) handed the Falcons their third straight defeat. 
Young threw for three TDs, Jerry Rice ran 43 yards on a reverse for a score and Watters rushed for 112 yards. 
The 49ers withstood 192 yards rushing by Erric Pegram, starting for the injured Eric Dickerson. No one has ever rushed for more yards against the 49ers. Bobby Hebert added three scoring passes to Andre Rison for Atlanta. 
Eagles 34, Redskins 31 
At Philadelphia, Randall Cunningham threw his third touchdown pass with four sec­onds left as the Eagles rallied from a 21-10 deficit. All three TO tosses were to Calvin Williams, who caught eight passes for 181 yards. His leap­ing 10-yard reception lifted the Eagles to their third straight victory. 
"I just saw the two safeties, caught Randall's eye and he picked me up," Williams said of his winning catch. "We've been doing this for four years now and we're really relaxed in this situation." 
Washington's Cary Conklin, filling in for injured Mark Rypien, also threw for three touchdowns. Washington (1-2) got 154 yards rushing from rookie Reggie Brooks, including an 85-yard TO run. 
Saints 14, Lions 3 
At New Orleans, the defense is no longer resting for the Saints. New Orleans (3-0) ranked an unusually low 26th on defense heading into the game. But Renaldo Turnbull had three sacks, Rickey Jackson recovered two fumbles and the Saints held Detroit (2-1) to 165 yards. Saints rookie Derek Brown rushed for 121 yards on 25 carries. 
Former Saints linebacker Pat Swilling, traded to the Lions last April, played despite the death of his father Saturday. Swilling had only two tackles and jumped offside three times. 
~ 
J_' 
-~ 
'# ,.._ _,,~ 

Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Former Irish star Reggie Brooks had an 85-yard run in the Washington Redskins' 37-34 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles yesterday. 
Steelers 34, Bengals 7 ceptions. The Steelers (1-2) had 
At Pittsburgh, Neil O'Donnell just one touchdown in their first threw for three touchdowns de-two games. spite a sore arm and Barry Cincinnati (0-3) lost its fifth in Foster rushed for 103 yards. a row to Pittsburgh. After going O'Donnell found Ernie Mills, 11-for-12 for 98 yards and a Yancey Thigpen and Dwight touchdown, David Klingler Stone for TDs and was 21-for-could not get the Bengals mov­25 for 189 yards and no inter-ing in the second half. 
BENGAL BOUTS NOVICE TRAINING 
Begins Monday, September 27 
Meet just inside Gate 3 ofthe J.A. C. C. at 
4:00 pmfor an informational meeting 
troupe from LR Tues. Sept. 21 7:88 Washington Hall $3 
brought to you by the Hispanic Rmerican Rssociation and~ 
Recruitment dates are as follows: October 13, 1993 --Accounting 
1 
1 
Monday, September 20, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT page IS 

It's as easy as dialing 
Call as often as you 1·800..COLLECT,sM instead like. There are winners of zero, when you make a everyday. collect call. You'll also save up to 
It'sthe 1·800-COLLECT 44% with 1·800-COLLECT. $5,000 DAILY GIVEAWAY. It's America's Inexpensive 
Just complete your col· Way To Call Someone lect call between August Collect;M Use it every time 30 and September 28, you make a long distance and you'll have a chance collect call. That's all to share $5,000 with the there is to it. person whose number Bet you call Mom and you're calling. Dad more than ever. 
Savings vs. AT&T 3 min. operator dialed Interstate collect call. 
THE 1-800-COLLECT $5,000 DAILY GIVEAWAY 
*1-800-COLLECT $5,000 DAILY GIVEAWAY. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. ALL ENTRANTS ARE BOUND BY COMPLETE RULES WHICH ARE AVAILABLE 3v 0ALLING 1-800-RULES4U. FOR EACH DAY FROM 8/30/93 THROUGH 9/28/93 (30 DAYS), 1-800-COLLECT WILL GIVE AWAY A GRAND PRIZE OF $5,000!1. TO ENTER BY MAKING A 1-800-COLLECT CALL: Each time you make a 1-80~-COLLECT domestic telephone call (within the U.S. and Puerto Rico) during the pro­motion period indicated, and the collect calling charges are accepted, you and the individual or company whose name appears on the telephone bill for the numt>Pr called (hereinafter referred to as Call Recipient) are eligible to be randomly select­ed as potential winners to share a daily prize of $5,000. Calling day is 12:00 midnight EDT up to the following 12:00 midnight EDT. 2. No purchase or telephone call necessary. TO ENTER BY MAIL, hand print your name, address, zip code and daytime telephone number on a plain piece of 3" x 5" paper and mail in a hand-addressed 4 1/8" x 9 1/2" (#10) envelope, with first class postage affixed, to: 1-800-COLLECT Giveaway, P.O. Box 4396, Blair, NE 68009. IMPORTANT: ON LOWER LEFT HAND CORNER OF MAILING ENVELOPE, YOU MUST PRINT THE SPECIFIC DATE OF THE PRIZE GIVEAWAY (FROM 8/30 through 9/28/93) FOR WHICH YOUR ENTRY IS DESIGNATED. Enter as many times as you wish for as many days as you wish, but each entry must be mailed separately. No mechanically reproduced entries permitted. Entries must be received by 5 business days after prize giveaway date indicated on your mailing envelope to be eligible for that daily prize. 
3. SELECTION OF WINNERS: Each daily winner will be randomly selected from among all eligible 1-800-COLLECT telephone call entries and all eligible mail-in entries received for that day's giveaway. Random selection will take place 6 days after the specific prize giveaway date. Odds of winning a prize will depend on the number of eligible I -BOO-COLLECT telephone calls completed each day and the time of day the call was made, and on the number of mail-in entries designated for each day's prize award. Odds will vary each day of the promotion based on the above factors. Odds of winning via mail-in entry will be as good as odds of winning via telephone entry. 4. PRIZES: 1 Grand Prize per day of $5,000, divided equally between Caller and Call Recipient. Call Recipient portion of the prize will be awarded to the individual or company whose name appears on the telephone bill for the telephone number called. If potential winner has entered via mail, he/she subse­quently will be required to give name, address and telephone number of individual with whom he/she wishes to share prize equally. 5. GENERAL RULES: To be eligible, callers/mail-in entrants must be 16 years or older as of 8/30/93. Sponsor's employees directly involved in the planning and implementation of this promotion and employees of it's advertising and promotion agencies, and their immediate family members and/or those living in same household of each are not eligible for any prize, either as an entrant or designated recipient. lfeither potential winner of a daily prize is not eligible, per the above, that entire $5,000 prize will not be awarded. Void where prohibited by law. No substitution or transfer of prize permitted. All fed­eral, state and local taxes are the sole responsibility of winner. All federal, state and local laws and regulations apply. Not responsible for malfunctioning or breakdown of telephone systems, for faulty telephone transmission or for lost, late or mis­directed entries. In the event that technical difficulties prevent selection of a winner for any daily prize of the promotion, that prize will be awarded on the following day. Random selection of winners will be under the supervision of D.L. Blair, Inc., an independent judging organization whose decisions are final. By participating in this promotion, entrants agree to be bound by the Official Rules and decisions of the judges. COMPLETE rules are subject to any requirements or limitations that may be imposed by the Federal Communications Commission. 
r 
! 
page 16 
Men 
continued from page 20 
son and ended a two-game win streak. 
Prado, who had just been in­serted into the lineup, scored the only goal of the second half ofT a Chris Mathis pass to pro­vide the winning goal for the Irish. 
Michigan State came out 

with a lot of enthusiasm in the 
first half, shocking the Irish at 
the 6:26 mark when midfielder 
Andrew RoiT drilled a 20-yard 
shot into the right corner of the 
net past a diving Bert Bader. 
Notre Dame tied the game at 
one ofT a penalty kick from Bill 
Lanza at the 22:44 mark in the 
first half. 
The tie did not last for long, 

however. The Spartans re­
sponded at the 30:27 mark, 
when Sean Nemnich scored ofT 
a Jon Petoskey cross pass, 
making the score 2-1. 
"We we're attacking well in 

the first half, but we left our­
selves vulnerable to their 
counter-attack," said Berticelli 
Friday night. The Irish found 
Yankees' fans 
themselves facing many three­on-two disadvantages in their own zone following stifled scor­ing attacks in the first half. 
The Spartans could not hold the lead until halftime, how­ever, as Notre Dame scored with 1:34 remaining. Junior Tim Oates capitalized on a dropped ball by Michigan State goalie Curtis Payment, scoring on an open net to even the score at 2-2. 
Despite their offensive dis­play in the first half, the Spartans could not muster up any other scoring chances throughout the rest of the game, as they were completely dominated by the Irish in the second half. 
"It was the same game in the 
second half," continued 
Berticelli. "But the adjust­
ments we made defensively in 
the second half is what gave 
us the edge." 
The Irish held Michigan State 
to only four shots in the second 
half, while gathering thirteen 
shots on goal oiTensively. 
Notre Dame's next game will 
be Friday night at Alumni 
Field, when they host rival and 
top-20 power Indiana. 
•

Impact game 
in an altogether new way 
By JIM DONAGHY 
Associted Press 
NEW YORK 

The Yankees called it destiny. The Red Sox said it was a darned shame. What it was, was one of the most incredible finishes to a baseball game ever. 
Players, fans and security guards were still buzzing about it Sunday, one day after a 13­year-old boy ran onto the field and saved the Yankees' pen­nant hopes. 
Pinch-hitter Mike Stanley had just hit what appeared to be an easy, game-ending fly ball to left field, giving Boston a 3-1 victory. 
But third base umpire Tim 

Welke was waving his arms 
wildly, indicating a timeout just 
as pitcher Greg Harris was 
making his delivery. After a 
brief argument by manager 
Butch Hobson, the game re­
sumed, and the Yankees scored 
three runs for a 4-3 victory, 
keeping them three games back 
of Toronto on the AL East. 
"A lot has happened this year to make me feel we might win it all," Stanley said. "It seems to be some sort of destiny that we win this division." 
Police wouldn't identify the fan because of his age, but they said he was was part of a church group from upstate New York and that he cried before he was released. 

The boy jumped over a short fence on the third-base side and started running toward second base where he was tackled by security guards. 
"He was frightened," said one police oificer. "I don't think he even noticed the Yankees won." 
In the first three games of the four-game series, 13 people ran on the field. The stadium secu­rity force, one of the largest in baseball, said it was consider­ing deploying more guards around the first row of box seats, but officials said Sunday it's virtually impossible to stop a rowdy fan who wants a moment of glory. 
It was the second time this 
season that the Yankees have 
won at home because of fan in­
terference. On Aug. 15, a 16­
year-old boy reached over the 
right-field fence to catch a ball 
hit by Don Mattingly for a 
game-winning home run. 
--------, 
Monday, September 20, 1993 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 


Junior Tim Oates challenges a defender during the Irish's loss to Butler last week. 
~------~ ---~ --­
TOP Ten JReasons to Join 
Communities ND 
10. No papers, finals or grades 
9. Free candles 
8. Monk wants you to 

7. Better than an SYR for making new friends 
6. Chance to talk about Sunday's Gospel ahead of time 
5. Discover the challenge of adult Christianity 
4. Easier to get into than an NDE 
3. Co-ed, Co-ed, Co-ed! 

2. Terrific way to learn about your faith 
1. Nobody goes to heaven by themselves 
New Communities begin in January --find out what they're all about NOW 
Come learn more about Communities ND: 

• 
September 20; 9:00 -10:00 p.m.; Faculty Dining Room (South Dining Hall above the Oak Room) 

• Open to members of the classes of '95, '96 and '97 

• 
Meet new friends ... hear from student participants in current communities ... food will be served. 


(7\MPUS MINISTRY 


ND WOMEN SPEAK OUT 
An invitation to the entire Notre Dame Community to listen to and speak about Gender Relations 
Featuring: 

Guest speakers Poetry Readings Music *Open to Personal Tesitmony 
September 20th 
7:30PM 
101 De Bartolo 

***Refreshments Following 
London  $269  
St. Petersburg  $399  
Belize City  $229  
Rio de Janeiro  $505  
Bangkok  $619  

Airfares ~re tliCh wit( b.lsed on aroundtrippurchase ~nd subject to ch.lnge. Restrictions i!pply. Taxes not 1ncluded. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 

--------~~-~--­
Monday, September 20, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
teams. We just have to keep playing hard and working as a
Women 
team." "The defense did a great job,"
continued from page20 
said freshman goalkeeper Jen its side. Renola, who made several out­
"This was our first chal­standing saves in the second lenge," Guerrero added. "I half and finished her second think this means we are ca­complete shutout. "I really
pable of beating above average didn't do too much." teams as well as average The victory was important to 

the Irish not only due to who they beat but also because it was the culmination of the first weekend in which they played to their full potential. 
The team has coasted past its opponents this season without encountering any serious road blocks, yet every game it played seemed to be marred by occa­sional lapses in intensity. 
Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli became so incensed by this fact at practice last Thursday night that he dis­banded the team an hour early. He told his players not to return unless they were ready to play with the desire and the drive that were missing. 
The squad responded to the charge by trouncing rival Michigan State Friday night, 6­0. 
The Irish exploded in the first half with five goals, four which came in the first twenty min­utes. Daws led Notre Dame with an amazing two goal and three assist performance. 
"We played with our hearts, and with one hundred percent intensity," said Daws, who leads the team in scoring with 17 points. "I think every body just played to the fullest and gave everything they had." 
Guerrero played phenome­nally as well, scoring two goals 
By AlAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

John Cooper returned to the scene of one of his worst losses at Ohio State and was wei­
--~---------~ --~-~----....
... 

20 at Texas Christian Won 4-0
C"J 

en 
23 LASALLE Won 4-0 25 PROVIDENCE Won 2-0 
30 at Xavier Won 2-1
0) 
NOVEMBER 

~ 1 at Wright State Won 2-1 
SEPTEMBER

C'~") 4 at LaSalle Won 12-0 7 BUTLER Won 4-0
0) 

OJ 
10 at Wisc.-Madison (#20) Won 3-1 14 at Indiana Won 5-1 17 MICHIGAN STATE Won6-0 ~ 19 WILLIAM & MARY (#5) Won 1-0
----The!!!!!!!fe 
and adding two assists. Hartwig American last season, set the 
and sophomore midfielder Michelle McCarthy also scored for the Irish. 
"We were too excited," said Spartan head coach Tom Saxton. "Notre Dame is a great soccer team and they took ad­vantage of us." 
With her three assists, sopho­more midfielder Ragen Coyne broke a team record for assists in a season with eleven. Coyne, who was a second team All-record with at least fourteen games remaining in the season. 

"The whole team was on," said Coyne. "When you play to­gether like that, there's no way you're going to lose." 
The victory also broke the team record of consecutive vic­tories, which was previously set at nine. The current streak, which dates back to last season, was extended to eleven games after this weekend's contests. 
Ohio State rips Pittsburgh for third win 
corned by ... one of the worst teams in Pitt history. 
At least he wasn't greeted by hostile fans, like he was in 1988 when llhe Buckeyes were em­barrassed 42-10 by Pitt in his second game as Ohio State's coach. Some of the Buckeye fans who watched that rout yelled l[)bscenities and pounded angrily on his locker room door, suggesting Cooper was no Woody Hayes or Earle.Bruce. 
Funny how times, and teams, have changed. 
Now, No. 7 Ohio State is a big-time power again, a legiti­mate Top 10 team with speed -and talent and depth -to burn. And Pitt is a punching­bag shell of its former Top 10 self, a defensive doormat that other teams use to pad their statistics and their egos. 
"We don't have any players left frl[)m that team, so we didn't talk about that game," Cooper said after the Buckeyes' 63-28 romp Saturday. "What's the difference between now and 1988? We were inept that day as (Pitt) was today. It was the exact opposite of 1988." 

And for Pitt coach Johnny Majors, it's almost an exact du­plicate of the full-scale rebuild­ing job he mounted upon inher­iting a 1-10 Pitt team in 1973. 
The only difference is that liberal recruiting rules then al­lowed him to bring in dozens of new players immediately. Now, he must play mostly with the talent -or lack thereof -he inherited from former coach Paul Hackett. 
Hackett certainly didn't do him any favors, and neither did former athletic director Ed Bozik, who left behind a Top 10-loaded schedule that makes it almost impossible for a tal­ent-thin team to win. Or even compete. 
"I want to be here when Pitt football comes back," line­backer Tom Tumulty said after Pitt allowed 63 points for the second straight week. "I can't wait to be a Top 10 team again." 
The Law School presents Pamela Carter, Attorney General ollndiana on Race, Sex, and the Law: Ho,"" a Black Woman Became Attorney Ge1meral and How She Intends to Use The Power of that Office 
Wednesday, September zznd Noon in the Law School Courtroom 
~ 

Volleyball coasts through Shamrock Invitational 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Wri1er 
Domination is an overused modifier most times, but there are those instances when it be­comes unavoidable. 
This weekend's Shamrock Invitational volleyball tourna­ment was a classic example, as the 16th 
ranked Notre Dame squad took it to each of its op­ponents, drop­ping only one game en route to the champi­


onship. ~ ., 
Behind a JaneUe Kaclan blistering attack that racked up 96 kills, the Irish breezed past Cal State Northridge 15-4, 15-9, 15-10, and then rocked William and Mary 15-6, 15-5, 15-12. After a brief lapse in the opening game, the Irish regained their composure and dropped 23rd ranked New Mexico 11-15, 15­2, 15-7. 16-14, in the finale. 
"Overall, I feel that we played fairly consistently throughout the weekend. We were able to play everyone on the roster. and we showed great persever­ance in the match against New Mexico," remarked Irish head coach Debbie Brown, whose team improved to 8-2 after the tournament. 
The New Mexico match was the one Notre Dame was most concerned with entering the tournament, and for awhile their fears seemed to be war­ranted. The Lobos confidently came out and took the first game, confounding the Irish with a series of difficult short serves and finesse tips over the net. 
"Their short serves really got us out of our rhythm, and we didn't respond well to the soft shots," noted Brown. "However, we made a good adjustment to that, and tried not to give them the chance to string points together." 
The effect of the adjustment was immediate, as the scram­bling Irish defense seemed to be everywhere on the floor in game two, closing down on the openings that had been so prevalent in the first game. Spectacular digs by Nicole Coates and Janelle Karlan, as well as the blocking of Julie Harris and Molly Stark, set the tone as Notre Dame's athleti­cism started to take control. 
"We started off back on our heels," stated Brown. "But our defense really got better. To 
play that kind of defense, you 
have to practice that kind of 
defense, and we work very 
hard on that. It takes all-out 
effort, and I think we gave 
that." 

As the defense turned 
around, the offense took com­
mand, embodied in the spec­
tacular outside hitting of Coates 
and Christy Peters. In a display 
of sheer power volleyball, these 
two took over the match, hitting 
Karlan's sets through blockers 
and down the lines, completely 
turning the tempo of the match. 
Peters, who was deservedly 
selected the tournament's most 
valuable player, time and again 
went up against two Lobo 
blockers and drilled home a 
kill, providing the spark the 
team needed. 
"We tried to focus on getting into the game. After we turned up the intensity, everyone got more involved," stated Peters, whose offensive dominance was a gateway to her teammates involvement. 
As she and Coates were pounding home kills on the out­side, Molly Stark established the inside game with a number of kills off the quickset, and Jenny Birkner got into the act, scoring off backsets from Karlan. 
However, in the tense fourth game, it was Peters who came to the forefront. New Mexico, led by all-tournament perform­ers Alicia Bergman and Laurel Luman, mounted a gritty come­back, but Peters answered every rally with a definitive kill from the side. 
"Christy had a good weekend all around," commented Brown. "When it's crunch time, we're going to her." 
This weekend, she had all the answers, and accompanied by all-tournament teammates Karlan and Stark. the Irish closed out their third ranked opponent of the year in convincing style, further show­ing they are ready to take the national spotlight sooner than later. 
~-~f(,_
l,_ 
~ I 

Do as Mickey does. Buckle Up. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE HAME INTERNATIONAL 
STUDY PROGRAM 

SANTIAGO, CHILE Information Meeting 
with Father Tim Scully, C.S.C. Associate Professor, Government Director, Latin American Area Studies 
Tuesday September 21, 1993 at 6:30 pm Room I25 DeBartolo 
ALL STUDI:NTS ARE WELCOME! 
...... 

The Observer/Sean Farnan Junior Christy Peters kills home a point during the Irish's upset of Illinois last weekend. Peters captured the MVP award at the Shamrock Invitational this weekend, won by the Irish. 

PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
General meeting for all new and returning students 
• 

7:30in Cushing Auditorium • 
Bring $5.00 dues 

... 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

WI-I~\  'Nt:RE 1\\E\R  Ti-\f>,T '{o,iD  
EXPEC\~T\Ot{S?  BE  \-<\ORE  
LIKE  AN  
A\JIOMAnC.  
TELLER  
\V\1>,'-I-I\t{E.  
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  34 Large leaf  63 Vikings  
1 Like Nestor 5 Acknowledge 1 o One of the clefs 14ls in debt 15 Two-spot  3&Weight measure 37 Where Orioles meet Blue Jays 41 Hawaiian liquor, for short  64 Borscht ingredient 65 Architect Saarinen 66 Golden Horde member  
16 One of the  42 Obliterate  67 Region  
Websters  43 -­spumante  
17 Where Lions meet Bears  44Scull 45Whalers'  DOWN  
20 Sensitive, as to ragweed  get-together 46 Stiffened  1 Living-room piece  
21 Musical directions 22 Louis XIV, e.g.  48Volumes 50"-tu," Verdi aria  2 Truant G.l. 3 An earth sci. 4An enzyme  
23 Hurts 26 Beefsteak, for  51 "Flow gently, sweet-"  5Siow ballet dance  
one 29 Sheep sound 30 lnst. at Dallas 33 Auction caveat  54 Weigh heavily 59 Where Hornets meet Hawks 62 Donkey sound  & Cold-cuts ctr. 7 Organic-garden need a Suffix for hero or poet  
9 Hanoi holiday  
10 Site of  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  Aconcagua  
-:-T=-r.=-r.::-.  11 Superman 's  
girlfriend  
-...::::+::+.-~ 19 Pride of Philip II 38Goaway! 


'NI-I'ERE Do '{O\l PolL'S~RS 
F\I'-ID nlt:'SE 
R£SI'OI'-ID~NT'3? 
OF INTEREST 

=+'-+~'-4 12 Tight 32 Loosened 49 Clever 56 Actor Mischa ":+±+.+.-'-+=-! 13 Measures of 34 Burn brightly 51 French secular .._, resistance 35 "Kidnapped" cleric 57 Corner ~'-'-f'""""".,. 18 Bonn bread auth. 
52 Food 58 Kett in the 
comics

53 Nicholas or
~:::+::..+:~ 24 Residence 39Composer 
Peter 60 Abbreviated
-;';-t::-t-::...r.:+=+=-1 25 Rajah's spouse Khachaturian 
explosive

-=+=-+:=+.+=-! 26 Forbidden 40 Winnipeg is its 55 Victor Laszlo's capital wife &1 Stole
-=-+'=+::-t.i"" 27 Big city in Japan 
DININ HALL

•:-t::-f"'!~ 28 Avaricious one 46 Famed nuclear scientist
1-;-;-1-:-i+-:+.±+=-~~:...r::~ ~,-,+.=+::-i 30 Facing an Get answers to any three clues advancing 47 Actor Blare 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
glacier 48 World's most 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
31 Carlo or Cassino populous city 



SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, September 20, 1993 
Seventh-ranked women's soccer scores huge upset 

The Observer/David Hungeling 

Star freshmen recruit Cindy Daws scored two goals and notched 'four assists in the Irish's two wins this weekend. 
Irish post record eleventh-straight win 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 
The confident cheers of the Notre Dame women's soccer team filled the air yesterday afternoon after the Irish scalped the Tribe of William & Mary in what was perhaps the biggest victory in the history of the program. 
The seventh-ranked Irish won by playing with a level of intensity and determination that was unparalleled by the Tribe. They clearly proved they were a better team. 
"We showed that we can play with any team in the country, and not only play with them, but beat them," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. 
"It gives us confidence," noted Irish tri-captain Alison Lester, "because we weren't intimidated by them. We treated them like just any other team." 
Sophomore attacker Rosella Guerrero scored the lone goal for Notre Dame off a corner kick at the 49:11 mark in the second half with freshman midfielder Cindy Daws and junior midfielder Jodi Hartwig assisting. 
Junior Tiffany Thompson's corner kick was first headed by Daws into the crossbar. Hartwig then booted the rebound ofT Tribe goalie Maren Hojas and the deflection headed right to Guerrero, who headed it into the right side of the net. 
"lt was every body's goal," said Guerrero. "I just happened to be the one who put it in." 
Although the Irish only scored one goal, they dominated William & Mary in terms of scoring opportunities and time of possession. Notre Dame outshot the Tribe 18-8 and easily could have scored two or three more goals had luck been on 
see WOMEN I page 17 
Inside SPORTS 
Volleyball Christy Peters wins MVP honors as the Irish dominate the Shamrock Invitational this weekend. 
see page 18 



Saint Mary's 
Soccer The Belles defeat Rockford for their second win of the young sea­
son. 
see page 12 

Men's soccer beats Michigan St., Evansville 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's soccer team made a twin killing this weekend, downing rivals Michigan State and Evansville to improve their season record to 4-2. 
In the Irish's 1-0 victory over Evansville yesterday, a goal from junior midfielder Tont Richardson with 6:52 to play in the first half proved to be the game winner. 
"In our game against Evansville last year, Tont left with a broken leg," said Irish coach Mike Berticelli. "It's a tremendous thing for him to come back and play as well as he did." 
Richardson's goal came during an Irish offensive flurry late in the first half. A corner kick by captain Mike Palmer had been booted away towards midfield following a scramble in front of the net. Defenseman Chris Dean drove the ball back into Evansville territory, where Richardson broke open and blasted a 25-yard shot past Purple Ace goalie Steve Hoogerwerf. 
Defense was the story of the contest, as the Irish were led by goalie Bert Bader, who collected nine saves for his second shutout of the season, and de­fensemen Brian Engesser and Dane Whitley. The addition of Kevin Adkisson, who had missed the first four games of the season, also helped Notre Dame to put the clamps on the Evansville offensive surge. 
"When we play Evansville, we expect a physical game," continued Berticelli. "Sometimes it's as much a war as it is a game." 
The physical nature of the game was evident in the number of fouls commit­ted. The Irish tallied 23 fouls, while the Purple Aces finished with 29. The Purple Aces were led by Brian Loftin and Marty Schroering, who each had three shots on goal. 
Evansville dropped to 2-4 on the sea­son, including a 1-2 conference record with its loss yesterday. The Irish are now 2-1 in Midwestern Collegiate Conference action. 
On Friday, the Irish fought off a tena­cious Michigan State squad to capture a 3-2 win on a Ray Prado goal at the 
32:44 mark in the second half. The loss dropped the Spartans to 3-3 on the sea-
see MEN I page 16 


f 
~ 






