~~ ~------------­


Monday, October 11, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 31 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Elections return Socialists to leadership role in Greece 
By PHILIP DOPOULOS 
Associated Press 
ATHENS 

Andreas Papandreou's Socialist party made a dramatic political comeback Sunday after voters rejected the conservative government's painful austerity measures. 
Clearly upset. Premier Constantine Mitsotakis con­ceded defeat to Papandreou Sunday evening after voting re­turns showed the Socialists winning a clear majority in par­liament. 
"The election has been de­cided. The Greek people has chosen the Panhellenic Socialist Movement. which will form a government with a large ma­jority in Parliament." Mitsotakis said. adding that he would also step down as leader of his party. 
Papandreou, who was ousted after eight years of power in 1989 over a financial scandal. waved to a crowd of several thousand supporters outside his suburban Athens villa before making a televised victory speech. 
"I want to thank the people from the bottom of my heart for the trust they showed in me." said Papandreou, who was later acquitted of charges by a spe­cial court that he had received missing funds from an Athens bank. 
Thousands of Socialist sup­porters drove through the capi­tal. honking their horns and waving green and white party banners. 
With 47.2 percent of the votes counted, the Panhellenic Socialist Movement was ahead with 46.4 percent. while the ruling New Democracy party had 40.7 percent. the Interior Ministry said. 
Official projections gave the socialist party or PASOK. 169 seats and the New Democracy party 113 in the 300-member single chamber Parliament. The Political Spring party would get 9 and the Communists 9. the projections said. 

Mitsotakis, 75, and Papandreou. 7 4. drew battle lines in the campaign over the economy. 
The conservatives froze wages. cut spending and re­duced taxes. narrowing deficits and bringing inflation down to 
12.8 percent. the lowest in more than a decade. 
The ruling party wanted to continue streamlining the econ­omy by selling off debt-ridden, state-controlled industries and some public utilities. But its strict austerity measures since 1990 created higher unemploy­ment and lowered the standard of living among the middle and working class. 
The opposition socialists said they would give the state a more significant role in running the economy and restore gener­ous welfare programs without raising taxes. 
During their years in power from 1981-1989. the socialists nationalized troubled industries and set up a national health system. straining the economy and creating record high deficits. 

Three ND students cited in raid 
By JULIE BARRETI Associate News Editor 
At least three Notre Dame students received minor con­sumption of alcohol charges when police raided a partylate Saturday night, according to South Bend police reports. 
South Bend Police, Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (S.U.D.S.) task force members and Indiana State Excise Police raided the Notre Dame student residence of 203 East Marion Street at 1:20 a.m. and cited seven underage drinkers with the class B misdemeanor charge, police reports said. 
The three students reported for the citations are Lyons ju­nior Margaret Laboe, Flanner sophomore Jonathan Patrick and Grace freshman Richard Langevine. 
The charges will be referred to the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office for disposi­tion. 
No other information was made available to The Observer at press time. 
By MICHAEL NORTON 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE. Haiti 
If the United Nations mission fails to restore democracy in this Caribbean country. hordes of Haitians will flee toward the United States. Prime Minister Robert Malval warned Sunday. 
He spoke after a night of heavy gunfire in the capital. a stark reminder of the volatile political passions that many fear will force the U.N. peace­keepers into fighting. as has happened in Somalia. 
A U.S. warship carrying hun­dreds of Gis to take part in the 
U.N. mission is to arrive on Monday. A small contingent of 
U.S. and Canadian peacekeep­ers arrived last week. 
The U.N. troops are part of a U.N.-brokered plan to restore democracy to the country more than two years after President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's first freely elected leader. was deposed in a military coup. 
After Aristide's ouster. count­less Haitians began fleeing by boat for the United States. U.S. military ships began intercept­ing them and returning them to Haiti. sparking outraged criti­cism that Washington was turn­ing away refugees of political oppression. 
If the U.N. plan fails. "more and more people will leave the island. It will no longer be a problem for Haiti. It will be a problem for Florida," Malval told reporters. speaking from the porch of his home. 
"Even the U.S. 6th Fleet will be unable to prevent Haitians from fleeing a less and less hos­pitable land." Malva} said. 
Malval's message attempted to show Americans. more wary of military involvement follow­ing the mounting American deaths in Somalia. the domestic costs of a failure of interna­tional will in this military-dom­inated nation. 
He rejected comparisons with Somalia. asserting that 90 per­cent of Haitians -inside and outside the military -wanted to restore democracy here. However. his transition gov­ernment has received little co­operation from the Haitian army. and civilian gunmen tied to the military have been blamed for a series of politically related killings in the past two months. 
More than 200 people have died in almost-nightly shooting attacks on pro-Aristide neigh­borhoods. There was no casu­alty toll available for the shoot­ing Saturday night and Sunday morning. 

"Many friends and observers are very pessimistic," Malval acknowledged. "But we are not. Haitians refuse to identify with those who maintain them in poverty and terror." 
He disclosed that Western Hemisphere foreign ministers were planning to fly here Oct. 30 for the scheduled return of Aristide. 
The U.S. amphibious warship Harlan County headed toward Haiti on Sunday. carrying mili­tary engineers. medics and civil affairs specialists. along with troop trucks. bulldozers. earth movers. tents and rations for a six-month mission. Also to be unloaded are M -16s. sidearms and ammunition, which U.S. officials said would only be used in self-defense. ' 
The force is to total 1,600 troops. 
Six hundred American troops have been committed to the mission. which has been the subject of a debate within the Pentagon. 
. .

Invest 1n South Africa 
Observer Staff Report 

In an expected move. the Board of Trustees voted uni­mously Friday to end the University's policy of restricting investment in companies who do business in South Africa. 
Created in 1979 and revised in 1985 and 1988, the policy resolved that the University would oppose apartheid by di­vesting in companies which sold goods or sevices to the South African government. 
In addition. the policy in­cluded steps to divest from companies which were not ac­tively opposing aparthied. and banks loaning money to South Africa. 
After a recent speech before the U.N. where African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela called for an end to economic sanctions, the University's policy was consid­ered unnecessary according to Father Oliver Williams. associ­ate provost. 

l 
I 
I, 
l t ~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

It's tinte for androgyny; It's just that... 
My niece's first word is -------­
"Dada." 

Often. when an infant begins to recognize the physical differences between men and women. the child. not yet endowed with an immense vocabu­lary. will associate all men with this masculine label. Females. in turn. Jason Thomas tend to be dubbed 
Asst. Viewpoint Editor 
"Mama." 

This differences between the masculine and the feminine are already evident to the eyes of very young chil­dren. and this usually continues throughout their lives; I don't know a great number of individuals above the age of ten who have trouble making this distinction. 
Considering that all of our knowledge is based on our sense perceptions. it would seem that these physical differences might entail differences in the ways in which the sexes per­ceive. 
Different bodies. different perceptions. dif­ferent ways of thinking. Studies have indicated this to be true. suggesting the differences by which men and women learn and think. Are the generalizations of typically male and female behavior simply results of our culture and society? Or does the issue reach deeper into spiritual differences between the sexes? 

I will assume the latter of the two to be true for a few reasons. whether they be reasonable or not. 
Assuming that there is an omniscient and omnipotent creator of our intricate universe. why would this Being bother with the creation of tWt> different sexes if there was no deliber­ate reason? Wouldn't it be possible to have humankind reproduce asexually? Certainly. an omnipotent God could manage this detail. 
God could have created us all as one sex. but he didn't. I propose that there must be a reason for this. especially since this God is omniscient. and would have therefore fore­seen all of the problems that the differences between the sexes present. 
What reason could God have for this inflic­tion of pain on our society? Look at the prob­lems caused by two sexes! We've got sexism. rape. homophobia. dysfunctional families and a plethora of other social diseases that plague our world. And what for? It had better be something good. It had better be something that outweighs all of these other atrocities. 
At this point. it seems that the existence of these two sexes only divides the world. It's rather ironic to note that the reason that God did create both men and women. might have been to teach us something about unity. 
The belief I propose is that God. in all knowing and all powerful love for us. created Adam and Eve with different perspectives on life. so that in the end they would learn from each other and love each other for these dif­ferences. The combination of the two differ­ences creates a synergy. a power which results when two halves combined form some­thing greater than the sum of the effects con­sidered independently. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAV'S STAFF 

News Lab Tech Sarah Doran T.J. Harris Michael O'Hara 
Production Kathie Young Sports Whitney Sheets Jonathan Jensen Accent Viewpoint Man Carbone Mark Krejci 
Graphics 
Michael O'Hara 
Brendan Regan 

The ObS<rv<r (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated PrC"ss. All reproduction right.!. arc reserved. 
..------------------·------------------------------­
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, October 11, 1993 
NATION AT AGLANCE 
Three believed dead in ship blast, officials work to avoid major oil spill 
GALVESTON. Texas Salvage crews scrambled Sunday aboard a gasoline tanker ripped open by an .N.M. explosion that peeled back part of the deck "like a sardine can." Three people were believed killed. The Coast Guard · strung containment booms in case of a possible fuel spill from the damaged OMI Charger. which was carrying no cargo but held 365.000 gallons of fuel. "There 200 miles is a potential for a major spill." said ES Capt. Paul Prokop. commander of the 200km · 
Coast Guard station at Galveston. The L-~~-~-----L---:-:! bunch of Cajuns who did the right thing. 
Houston Ship channel. one of the world's busiest waterways. was closed part of the day because officials feared ship wakes could endanger the tanker. Officials later allowed restricted use of the channel. which serves the Houston petrochemical industry. Coast Guard officials said they were convinced none of the fuel had spilled from the 660-foot ship. It was partially afloat in about 40 feet of water. Crews planned to remove the fuel and booms were set as a precaution around the ship and along wetlands on the Galveston shoreline. about 50 miles southeast of Houston. Witnesses said the ship was hit by two explosions Saturday. The first blast around 8 
p.m. was felt more than four miles away. while a less intense explosion occurred about an hour later. The fire burned out of control for some 5 1/2 hours. Two men were confirmed killed and one other was missing and presumed dead. Three of the 35 crew members remained hospitalized Sunday. one in serious condition. About a dozen others were treated and released.The blasts opened a gaping hole along the left side of the ship. exposing its interior. Pipelines on the deck were twisted 
Actress defends Danson's roast act 
BEVERLY HILLS. Calif. 

Whoopi Goldberg defended boyfriend Ted Danson's blackface appearance at a Friar's Club roast. saying Sunday that critic Montel Williams was a wimp and possibly a publicity hound. Goldberg said at a news conference she was sur­prised and shocked by the controversy over Friday's closed-door tribute to her in New York City. She said anyone 

Danson
familiar with the Friar's Club 89-year history of ribald roasts should have expected jokes about sex. gender. bodily functions. religion and race. Danson wore blackface makeup and huge white lips. The "Cheers" television star used the word "nigger" several times and joked about his sex life with Goldberg. Goldberg suggested talk show host Williams. who lashed out at Danson's antics. should have taken the event for what it was: an opportunity by friends to show their love with tasteless, vulgar humor. 
Anheuser-Busch confirms Spuds is dead 
ST. LOUIS 
The beer bash really is over for Spuds MacKenzie. Anheuser-Busch's famed party animal. The ultra-cool Bud light spokesdog-rumored to have died in a limou­sine wreck. a plane crash and a hot-tub accident -died last May of kidney failure. Anheuser-Busch confirmed Thursday. The dog. really a female. died at her home in suburban Chicago just before her tenth birthday. The pedigreed bull terrier. whose real name was Honey Tree Evil Eye. or Evie for short. first appeared on a national TV spot for Bud light during the 1987 Super Bowl. For two years. Spuds was highly visible. helping to make Bud light one of America's top-selling brews. 

NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 11. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
..........,... ..........__ ............... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Dallas 78 52 New York 55 37 Denver 74 33 Paris 64 45 
H L 

Atlanta 68 47 London 61 52 Philadelphia 56 38Baltimore 54 35 Los Angeles 72 64 St. Louis 62 39Boston 50 32 Miami 86 71 San Francisco 72 57Chicago 60 33 Minneapolis 61 38 Seattle 62 49Columbus 56 31 
New Orleans 75 57 

like blackened spaghetti. Part of the main deck was "peeled back like a sardine can." said Coast Guard Cmdr. Roger Peoples. who Dew over the wreck Sunday. The ship's stern had sunk to the channel bottom and it listed to port. but Peoples said it was in no danger of sinking. Twenty-seven crew J,.~mbers were res­cued from the burning ship minutes after the blast by the crew of a passing oil rig supply boat. But Allen LeBlanc. the 54­year-old captain of the supply boat. said he and his crew are no heroes. only a 
"You try to help the other guy. 'cause you never know. One day it might be you," LeBlanc. of Abbeville. La.. said Sunday. Owners of the ship and the Coast Guard would not say what caused the blasts. "It's too early to speculate," Peoples said. Authorities said. however. that a couple of workers were welding inside the ship at the time of the blast. And Peoples said hydraulics systems also were suspected. Joe Raia. an assistant manager for New York-based OMI Corp.. said eight contract workers were among the crew. including the two welders. He said they often worked aboard the ship and followed OMI safety standards. OMI President Jack Goldstein said the ship. built in 1969 and reCur­bished in 1989. was at anchor at the time of the blast and fire. It was returning from an Amoco Oil Co. terminal at Tampa. Fla.. and was to head to an Amoco refinery in nearby Texas City. Goldstein estimated the insured ship was worth about $10 million. It was the worst shipping accident in the area since the Norwegian tanker Mega Borg spilled 4.3 million gallons of crude oil about 60 miles off Galveston in June 1990. 
Penatagon issues halt to discharge ofgays 
LOS ANGELES 
The Pentagon has ordered the military to stop discharg­ing gays or placing them on standby while it appeals a judge's ruling. U.S. District Judge Terry Hatter Jr. last week barred all discrimination against gays in the mili­tary. issuing an order the Pentagon said prevents the car­rying out of President Clinton's new "don't ask. don't tell" policy. "The order is being appealed. Unless and until the order is reversed. limited or stayed. however. the department will comply with it." Assistant Defense Secretary Edwin Dorn said in a memo provided to The Associated Press. Discharge proceedings must halt and service members cannot be transferred to standby status "solely on the basis of homosexual orientation." Dorn wrote in the Oct. 1 memo. Major Tom La Rock. a Defense Department spokesman in Washington. said he had not seen the memo and could not comment on it. Hatter's ruling came in the case of Petty Officer Keith Meinhold. a sonar instructor at Moffat Field Naval Air Station near San Francisco who was discharged in 1992 after disclos­ing on national television that he was gay. 
More subdued Tailhook convention opens 
SAN DIEGO 
No leg-shaving suites. no Dashing of private parts. no groping of women in crowded hallways. The rules are clear for this year's Tailhook convention: straighten up and Oy right. The Tailhook Association opened its con­vention Friday with a cleaned-up agenda. a severely thinned crowd and a snub from the Navy. which is still investigating officers accused in the scandalous 1991 gathering. "We expect the atmosphere to be very pro­fessional." said Bill Knutson. a retired Navy captain and the association's president. It's the first Tailhook con­vention since the 1991 gathering in Las Vegas. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet C1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Monday, October 11, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 3 



Somalis support fugitive warlord 
Associated Press 
NAIROBI. Kenya 
Some 2.000 Somalis demon­strated in the capital of Mogadishu on Sunday in sup­port of fugitive warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid. a U.N. spokesman said. 

CLUB COLUMN 
October 11, 1993 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the foll~wing Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entnes to the Club Coordination Council office in Room 206 of Lafortune. 
l.IMPORTANT: The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all Presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check 
their mailboxes on the second floor of LaFortune across from the Student Government Office. 
2. 
TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL OF NOTRE DAME meets every Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Hayes-Healy Rm. 222. All are wel­come. 

3. 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE will hold a meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Montgomery Theater (107 LaFortune). All are welcome. 

4. 
NOTRE DAME COUNCIL ON INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT divisions meet weekly as follows: Oper. Management-Mon., 6:00 LaFortune (2nd Floor); Business Services-Mon. 6:30 LaFortune's Dooley Room; Internships-Mon. 7:00 LaFortune's Fo~ter Room;Citizen Democracy Corps.-Mon. 7:30 223 Hayes-Healy; Fmance-Tues. 8:15 LaFortune (2nd Floor). Questions, call Amy Mark 634-4011. 

5. 
ND/SMC SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING practice has started. Practices are 8-10 p.m. on Mon. and Wed. and 10:30-12-30 on Sundays at the Rock. All are welcomed! Questions, call Melanie Meigs 634-4855. 

6. 
THE STUDENT UNION BOARD AND THE OFFICE OF DRUG AND ALCOHOL EDUCATION HAS ORGANIZED A CAMPUS-WIDE EVENTS CALENDAR. Forms are available in the SU~ office. You may return the form to SUB or mail it by Campus !"1atl. Calendars will also be distributed monthly to all the dorms. This IS an excellent way to advertise your club's future events. Forms must be turned in ASAP, there is a deadline. Questions, call SUB at 631­7757. 

7. 
If the Club Coordination Council does not have your president's name, address, and phone number on file by this Thursday (10/14), your funds shall be frozen. 


Maj. David Stockwell, the 
U.N. military spokesman. said the demonstrators shouted slo­gans against the United Nations and the United States. He had no other details about the rally. 
It coincided with the arrival in Mogadishu of Robert Oakley, a former Bush Administration official who is seeking a diplo­matic solution in Somalia and a negotiated end to the fighting between Aidid's militiamen and 
U.N. peacekeepers. 
A U.N. official in Mogadishu, speaking on condition of anonymity. said Aidid 's re­ported offer Saturday for a cease-fire appeared to be a way of opening dialogue with Oakley. 
Militiamen loyal to Aidid have brazenly attacked the peace­keepers since June. At least 15 American soldiers were killed Oct. 3 in one of the fiercest bat­tles yet. Two more bodies be­lieved to be those of U.S. ser­vicemen were recovered Friday. and one soldier was still unaccounted for. 
Aidid's forces also took a beating in last week's 15-hour battle. The warlord said 315 Somalis were killed, and the Red Cross said more than 700 were wounded. 
Oakley met Saturday with President Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia. who has a mandate from the Organization of African Unity to handle inter­national negotiations on Somalia. 
The official Ethiopian News Agency said Meles told Oakley that Ethiopia and its neighbors were pleased with the new ef­forts to reach a political solu­tion. Oakley left Ethiopia on Sunday without making a pub­lic statement. 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali will hold talks on Somalia Thursday in Cairo with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, the chairman of the Organization of African Unity. Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa said Sunday. 

Suspects' lawyers accuse US ofwithholding evidence 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 

Lawyers for the two Ubyans accused of bombing Pam Am Flight 103 said Sunday that British and U.S. officials have failed to reveal evidence, mak­ing it hard for them to prepare a proper defense. 
Ibrahim Legwell, the Ubyan lawyer for the two Ubyan sus­pects. made the complaint in a statement issued on behalf of the suspects' defense team. The statement was faxed to The Associated Press in Cairo. 
The prosecution's failure to reveal evidence "seriously un­dermines the advisers' ability to prepare the case properly." the statement said. It did not elaborate. 
A spokesman for the Scottish Crown Office in Edinburgh said it was not customary to turn over complete evidence in a case before suspects were ar­rested. But the spokesman, in­sisting on anonymity. said a summary of the evidence was presented to Ubyan authorities. 
The defense lawyers said they advised the two suspects of their legal options. but did not say whether or not they had been advised to surrender themselves for trial. A proposal has been made to hold the trial in Scotland. 
The statement also expressed concern about the possible prejudicial effect on potential jurors of pre-trial publicity in the United States and Scotland and a lack of extradition treaties with London and Washington. 
The two men, Abdel Basset Ali Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhima, have been charged in the United States and Britain with planting a bomb that blew up on Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, on Dec. 21, 1988. All 259 people on the plane and 11 on the ground were killed. 
The United States, Britain and France have threatened to press for broader U.N. sanc­tions against Libya unless it sets a date for surrendering the two men. The new sanctions would freeze Libyan assets abroad and impose a ban on purchase of some oil produc­tion equipment. 
The Libyan government of Moammar Gadhafi has been under an air. arms and diplo­matic embargo since April 1992 for refusing to hand over the men. 
It has maintained it cannot surrender the men because it has no extradition treaty with the United States or Britain and could not be assured of a fair trial in the two countries. 
The statement by the defense lawyers. who are mostly Americans and Europeans. complained that the Libyan government was interfering in the case by offering to have Scottish judicial officials try to convince the men to stand trial in Scotland. 
It said: "It would be improper and unethical for there to be any direct communication be­tween the prosecution authori­ties, their governments or their agents" and the two suspects. 

Student Govern­ment is sponsoring a Fac­ulty/Student Quiz Bowl that will take place on No­vember 8 through 1L The Quiz Bowl will be similar in fonnat to "Jeopardy", and will pit various teams ofstudents and professors against each other. 
Eachteamwill con­sist of four members, at least one ofwhom must be 
a faculty member. The competitionwillbea double elimination tournament and will last four days. 
Sign ups for the Quiz Bowl will be held on October 18 through 22 in the Student Government Office. Questions about the tournament should be directed to Matt Glover or Bill Kiser in Student Gov­emment. 
~ --~---------~---------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October 11 , 1993 

Arafat packs key peace meeting with PLO supporters 
By SAlAH NASRAWI 
Associat~d Pr~ss 
TUNIS. Tunisia 
Vasser Arafat brought dozens of his supporters to a meeting Sunday of a key PLO policy­making body considering his peace deal with Israel. 
The 1 0 7 -member Palestine Central Council was meeting to decide whether or not to ap­prove the accord on self-rule for the occupied territories. Arafat packed the chamber with his supporters -including many non-Council members. 
Approval by the Central Council is a preliminary step to formal approval by the Palestine National Congress. or parliament in exile. whose ap­proval is required under the accord. 

The Council. which functions as the policy-making body in between meetings of the much larger Congress. was not ex­pected to make a decision until Monday at the earliest. 
Despite opposition from hard­line Palestinian factions. Arafat was expected to win a vote of approval from the Council. 
The hard-liners wound up a three-day meeting in Damascus. Syria. on Saturday vowing to keep on fighting Israel. but it appeared they could not agree on forming an 
Judge allows jurors to meet with their families 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
The judge in the Reginald Denny beating case allowed se­questered jurors to meet with friends and relatives Sunday to calm their nerves before they returned to stressful delibera­tions. 
Superior Court Judge John Ouderkirk announced in court Saturday that the visits would be allowed but he didn't indi­cate what arrangements would be made. 

Personality clashes and the strain of deliberations have ap­parently frayed the jurors' nerves. 
One juror complained to the judge of a "serious problem" and there were signs of bicker­ing in the deliberations room. 
Damian Williams. 20. and Henry Watson. 29. are charged with attempted premeditated murder and other felonies in the attack on Denny. who was pulled from his truck at a city intersection when rioting erupted on April 29. 1992. 
University of Notre name International Study I,rogram in 
I I 


ANGERS, FRANCE 
1994 -95 Academic Year 
INFORMATION MEETING With I•rofessor l,aul McDowell 
MONDAY, OCTOIIEH. 11, 1993 7 I'.M. ROOM 140 DEUARTOLO 
AI'I'LICATIONS WILL Im IHSTHIHUTED 
alternative leadership to Arafat and his Palestine Liberation Organization loyalists. 
Under the Sept. 13 peace ac­cord. Palestinians won a mea­sure of self-rule in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho. with their powers to be spread over a wider area pending talks in the next three years. 
Radicals within the PLO op­pose the accord because it fails to deal with crucial issues such as the status of Jerusalem or guarantee the right of refugees to return to their homes. 
The small conference room at a Palestinian school where the meeting was held was packed with more than 200 Palestinians. double the num­ber of the council's members. 
Arafat loyalist Salim al­Zanoon told the council before it started deliberations that a group of Palestinians from the occupied territories was "invit­ed" to take part in the discus­sions -and its decision-mak­ing. 
AI-Zanoon did not explain how the nearly 50 Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza could participate in the voting of the council. 
It was not clear how many actual members of the council attended the meeting because Arafat's security men asked journalists to leave when coun­cil secretary Mohammed Subaih started checking the quorum. 
PLO officials. speaking on condition of anonymity. said Arafat had packed the council with his own backers by re­working the membership of the largest group on the council ­his own Fatah faction. 
Although this was sure to raise a storm among the hard­liners. Palestinian officials said PLO factions were technically entitled to change their repre­sentatives on the council. Arafat could make the changes for Fatah because he leads the faction. 

Bishops: Divorced must abstain from sex 
By BRIAN MURPHY Associated Press 

ROME 
If abstention from sex is the price of communion for the di­vorced. unmarried or sepa­rated. well. communion might have to wait. 
A conference of Italian bish­ops told church followers Friday that remarried di­vorcees. unmarried couples 
. and separated Roman Catholics will only be allowed to receive church sacraments if they promise to give up sex. Across Italy. where most peo­ple call themselves Roman Catholic but often diverge from 
church edicts. a common reac­tion was outrage. 
"This sets the church back at least 200 years," said popular television host Pippo Baudo, who is divorced and remarried. 
..This seems to me to be something from the Middle Ages." added fashion designer Laura Biagiotti. 
"It's rubbish." declared tele­vision entertainer Marina Ripa di Maena. who is married for a second time. 
The bishops' .. Pastoral Familial Directorate" was is­sued three days after Pope John Paul II issued his encycli­cal "Veritatis Splendor" (The Splendor of Truth). The Ion~­awaited encyclical reaffirmed the Vatican's intolerance of those seeking to amend basic church tenets. such as a ban on divorce. 
According to the bishops' document. Roman Catholics ..should live the life of a Christian" in order to receive the sacraments. said Cardinal Camillo Ruini. who presented the paper at the Vatican. 
Remarried divorcees can only take full part in church life if they "interrupt their sexual life and transform the bond into one of friendship. esteem and reciprocal help," the directive said. 

ELECTRIC FORMULA RACE CAR 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING STUDENT DESIGN OF DRIVE TRAIN 
To Compete with other Universities in 

1994 CLEVELAND ELECTRIC GRAND PRIX 
Col. John D. Miles 1-5532 
Dr. William B. Berry 1-6102 
Dr. \lichae1 M. Stanisic 1-7897 
Program Meeting will be held prior to Fall break, on October 12. 7:00pm. Room 303 Cushing Hall or Engineering. Participants welcomed from Arts & Letters. Business, Science, and Engineering 

...for weekends/holidays/ birthdays/weddings or just mom's home cooking. 
Call us for all your domestic travel needs/ 
Council Travel 
1153 N Dearborn St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311·951-0585 








WIN FLORIDA STATE TICKETS 
jOIN US AT THE TERRACE LOUNGE AT THE SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT for 
Nl({])N[))AY NrrGIHI1r IF({)) ({J)1rJEAJLJL 
c.. c..

o\. b h k h Allt?.oo
\..0\.;, ""'e~\.;, Ston 111 eac wee to enter t e p:'' can
~\.v , r J lZza p eat ~e\.tec; ~ote· FLORIDA STATE RAFFLE Oll] arty 

~ y~~
Drawing to be held November 8, 1993 for 2 tickets to the Notre Dame Game. 
(MUST BE PRESENT To WIN) 

TERRACE LOUNGE 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend, IN 46601 
Monday, October 11, 1993 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT page 5 



() in aJvertising eithera 
I

LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC. 
The man who created the Leo Burnett Company graduated with a Bachelor ofArts. So don't let the fact that you're a History major or even a Chemical Engineering major keep you away. At Leo Burnett, we're interested in people. Not majors. 
join usfor a presentation on a career in Client Service with the Leo Burnett Company on Tuesday, October 12thfrom 7-9 pm at the University Club. 
-----~--~ -----~------~-----­
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 11, 1993 
Clinton still raising expectations 
By JILL LAWRENCE 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Foreign crises are obscuring President Clinton's domestic agenda, but a 
close look reveals a chief execu­tive dispens­ing promises and raising expectations for many Americans. 


The risks of that course should be clear by now. To the glee of his rivals, Clinton has already had to temper, delay or scrap many of the pledges in his campaign tract, "Putting People First." 
In fact, there was a wide­spread view during Clinton's first months that he was at least partially responsible for his own rocky performance and low approval ratings because he had led people to expect too much from him. 
That made it all the more damaging when he reneged on his promise of a middle-class tax cut, accepted a gasoline tax increase and pushed back the timetable on his health care re­form plan. 
Yet from Florida to California to New Jersey. Clinton has been promising jobs, personal safety and health care for all. The tone was typified last week at a town meeting in Sacramento. 
There. a woman whose son had recently died of leukemia wondered if Clinton's health care reform plan would have covered the bone marrow transplant her insurance com­pany had refused to pay for. "Could people make the choice to have a procedure that could be considered experimental. if that's the only choice they have?" asked Shelly Chase. 
"In most cases the answer would be yes," Clinton replied. "The insurer will not take that option away." 
However, his draft health 
plan flatly excludes "investiga­tional treatments" unless they are part of a government­approved trial. 
Clinton's wife gave a more realistic answer to a Minnesota woman whose toddler has mus­cular dystrophy and a life expectancy of 20 years. 
"We will not be able ever to fund every new idea or new cure that comes out broadly until it has some proven clinical efficacy," Mrs. Clinton said. "Once it crosses that bridge, then it will likely be covered. But there will always be a peri­od when it is not." 
Clinton cast a misleading light on another aspect of his plan at a town meeting in Tampa, Fla., when he said doctors and pa­tients -not insurers -would determine when it's time to leave the hospital. Yet man­aged-care plans. which would cover a vast number of Americans under the Clinton scheme, would be under heavy pressure to keep costs down and hospital stays short. 
MAKE THE CHOICE TO MAKE A CHANGE. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME t%::::· SUMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN STUDY . Ill LONDON, ENGLAND INFORMATION MEETING: Tuesday, October 12, 1993 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME!  
THE ~~EVAIP' DOMER DASH WHAT: A two-person (1 male & 1 female) team obstacle course. WHERE: At the JACC, Gym 2. WHEN: October 13, Wednesday, 7:30pm. WHO: Grab a partner and 'DO THE DASH'. HOW: Sign up at the RecSports Office. Deadline Oct. 12. Participate and compete for prizes worth over $100 ** A National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week Event** *** Sponsored by: Office of Recreational Sports & Office of Alcohol and Drug Education ***  

)eC'ool drinking fool ru.:hiug ht>ad missing school. Wf't"kt"'nd partiM 
tapping kegs 
froth foam 
bittc•r dregs. 
Monday moanin' 
ba('k to sc.·hool failing grades iuttarc. too. {)(•ad-<·nd job gt•t dt~prt•sst:•d a~k··d to thtnk iail th(• h'st. 
Laid off 
f.,'TUh a Jitt• TV Guitl.t· 

Vanna White J)(mml sonw bt>t·rs dull the pain watdt your rhanf'' 
flush duwn Hw drain. 
I 
-~ 
\ 
-, 
I 
i 
I 
~ ~­

I " 
I 
l 

! I 
' 
I 
i 

I 


NATIONAL COLLEGIATE AlCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK 
SPONSORED BY: OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION 
Monday, October 11, 1993 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 



Health plans mirror each other 
By KAREN BALL 
Associaced Press 
WASHINGTON 
The half-dozen health care plans now before Congress par­allel each other in many ways, with their approach toward cutting red tape and reforming malpractice laws. 
But the provisions on cover­ing those currently uninsured vary widely. and there are great differences in financing, as well. 
With last week's introduction of a self-proclaimed middle­ground bill by a group of con­servative Democrats and mod­erate Republicans. the main alternatives to President Clinton's proposal are now in play. 
They span the political spec­trum. from one that would have the government pay all the bills to two Republican proposals that minimize government involvement. 
In between lie Clinton's plan and two others that offer a mix of government regulation to move people into cheaper, managed-care systems. and new taxes to help finance cov­erage for the uninsured. 
Keeping track of all the plans is confusing. even to scholars of the issue. 
"That's why it's going to take six to eight months of debate for the American people to fig­ure out which plan actually guarantees them health care," said Rep. Jim McDermott, D­Wash. "It's going to take a while for them to sort through all the sloganeering." 
McDermott is the lead spon­sor of a bill advocating a gov­ernment-run. Canadian-style system many say is the most liberal of the plans. McDermott defends his plan as about the least bureaucratic of the bunch. 
Meanwhile. Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said Sunday he was "mystified" that the White House has yet to sub­mit its health care legislation. 
"I can't believe they're having hearings on a plan that nobody has seen, and we may not see for another 30 days," he said on NBC's "Meet the Press." "We ought to be able to look at it line by line. word by word. page by page, so we can start asking questions and making judgments." 
Most of the plans share a number of provisions, such as malpractice reforms to cut down on defensive medicine; administrative reforms for a standard claim and electronic billing; and antitrust reform to allow hospitals and clinics to share facilities and equipment. 
They also have prohibitions against "cherry-picking" by insurers so they only no longer just take on healthy clients. And they would give the self­employed a 100 percent tax deduction for insurance, and provide "portability" so people could take their insurance with them if they switched jobs. 
So the big battles that loom involve how heavy a hand the government should have in reg­ulation: how to persuade people to consider limits in doctor choice; and determining how to cover everyone-the big ques­tion. 
Clinton's plan is built on the employer-employee system under which most people are currently insured. The presi­dent would compel all employ­ers to pay 80 percent of their workers' costs. The other al­ternatives don't go this route. partly out of fear that it would drive small employers out of business. 

The 1994 
Echoing Green Public Ser.,ice Fellowship 
What would you do if 1omeone gave you $1$,000 becau1e they believed in you and your idea1? 
• 
Aran is going to Costa Rica to start an organization which recruits, trains, and places volunteers in Latin American environmental NGO's. 

• 
Jennifer is continuing a youth leadership program in the Bronx which reclaims abandoned lots and turns them into community gardens. 

• 
Sara is starting a youth entrepreneurship program for young people in Boston's lowest-income communities. 

• 
Jael is working in South Dakota with Albert White Hat to write and publish the first Native American Lakota-language textbook to be used in school curriculum. 

• 
Nathaniel is designing and teaching a radical history curriculum to school children in the village of Nonkobe in the Transkei of South Africa. The 1994 Echoing Green Public Service Fellowship offers outstanding college seniors $lS,OOO seed money and technical assistance to start innovative projects or organizations in public service. Doing anything. Anywhere in the world. Right after graduation. Challenge yourself and join the 76 other Echoing Green Fellows world-wide who are working with communities to make a difference. 


Find out more: Meet the Echoing Green Program Director 
Wedn11d1y, OD#ober 13th tZS DeB1ttolo 4-5 p.m. Applieltlong due Febru~ry 11th, 1994 
Cada Semana/Weekly 
{Venga cuando que posible/Come when possible) 
Wednesdays, 9-10 p.m. Center for Social Concerns Universidad de Notre Dame 
Bring Your Own Bible Espanol o Ingles Todos lnvitados/ All Invited Refreshments Following For more information call 

Lobbyists work together agatnst restrtcttons 
By JIM DRINKARD 
Associaced Press 
WASHINGTON 

Using their best tools and tactics. Washington lobbyists have launched a mission to rescue themselves from gov­ernment restrictions. 
The quest has all the ear­marks of any modern lobbying campaign: a coalition of allied interests; fax machines dis­patching bulletins to .clients; position papers and studies to provide intellectual firepower for their arguments. 
And like most good public relations efforts, the struggle is portrayed not as a defense of the pocketbooks of its interest­group members. but as preser­vation of far loftier goals -the First Amendment and citizens' rights to talk back to their gov­ernment. 
The battle also picks on some of America's easiest villains to pillory: Congress. the Internal Revenue Service. the Postal Service, and faceless federal and state bureaucrats. 
The lobbyists have formed a group they call the Free Speech Coalition. Most of its members are tax-exempt "social welfare" organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union, the American Conservative Union. People for the American Way. the Fund for a Feminist Majority and the Sierra Club. 
Lawrence Pratt. director of the Gun Owners of America, said the groups have been lob­bying for others while ignoring themselves. "We have been like shoemakers whose chil­dren don't have shoes," Pratt said last week at a conference called by the new coalition. 
They are worried about a growing list of government ac­tions they say impede their fund-raising. lobbying and ed­ucational efforts. including: 
• 
Legislation that would re­quire more complete registra­tion of lobbyists. and expand its coverage to include those who lobby the executive branch as well as Congress. The bill, which has passed the Senate and is pending in the House, also would require lob­byists to detail which specific issues they raised with govern­ment officials. 

• 
Congressional proposals to require tax-exempt groups to disclose more information about their activities and to limit the pay of the groups' officers. 

• 
An IRS ruling that bars tax­exempt groups from lobbying for or against the confrrmation of top presidential appointees. unless they set up a separate fund to pay for the activity. 

• 
The proliferation of state and local restrictions. such as requiring the posting of bonds, for direct mail fund-raisers. 

• 
Efforts to raise mailing rates for non-profit advocacy groups, and to force groups to disclose their membership lists. 


A spokesman for Rep. John Bryant. D-Texas. sponsor of the lobbyist registration bill. called the coalition's assertions "nonsense." 

She's Back ... 
By Popular Demand! 


Ellen Gootblatt 
Bring your relationship questions/concerns to: 
"Meeting, Dating, Relating, and Mating" 
Tuesday, October 12 Carroll Aud~toriun,z, ?aint Mary's 7:30p.m. Admzsszon: $1.00 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, October 11, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor................ Mercdirh McCullough V'leWJ>Oinr Editor ......•....... Rolando de Aguiar Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Phoro Editor ................................. Jake Perers Saint Maay'• Editor............. Jennifer Habrych 

Business Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Hcroman Ad Dcoign Manager...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser Syorems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth OTS Dircctor: ............................... Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint M:uy's College. lr docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as aocurardy and objccrivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Maty's com­munity and ro aU readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions rhrough leuers is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing EdirorNicwpoinr Business Office Sporu News/Phoro 
KURT MILLS 
In his first months as President, Bill Clinton has faced a number of foreign policy dilemmas. These include what to do about Haitians fleeing re­pression, Bosnia. the recent nuclear test by China, and Somalia. On the first three is­sues. his reactions have indi­cated no recognition that the world is changing and that it is the responsibility of the entire global community, which in­eludes the United States. to ad­dress humanitarian and other problems. 
On the recent Chinese nuclear test. Clinton's reaction was to order preparations for a US test next year. At the same time. however. he has also stated that nuclear proliferation is a serious problem and must be stopped. The two positions are completely incompatible. His reaction indicates that he has not broken away from the short-term. tit-for-tat thinking which has been partly respon­sible for the situation we are in today. There is no need to test nuclear weapons. Their safety can be determined by other means. Testing would also send a signal to other nuclear nations that it is okay to start testing again. And, it would just further highlight the gross hypocrisy of the United States which wants to stop prolifera­tion but which still maintains an obscene stockpile of nuclear weapons. He can still stop what would be a really stupid act. Or. if he does not. hopeful­ly Congress will refuse to grant him permission. 
On Bosnia, Clinton has had a muddled and. many (including all of the State Department offi­cers who have resigned to protest Clinton's policy) would say. immoral policy. At certain 
DOONESBURY 

Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Acccnr/Saint Mary's  
631-4541  Day Ediror/Producrion  
631-5313  Advertising  
631-4543  Sysrems/OTS  
631-5323  Office Manager  

631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 
I 


ON THE OTHER HAND 

Clinton must address humanitarian global issues 
times he has suggested that the arms e m b a r g o should be lifted for the Bosnians (which, I think, would be a mistake) and that there should be some sort of air strikes against Serbian posi­tions. He has not done much of anything to u~~t'I ensure that any kind of forceful action be taken to stop the geno­cide being undertaken by Serbians. His still has the opportunity to make a coura­geous choice and demon­strate that relieving humanitarian suffering is, in­deed. a "vital national inter­est," equal to insuring that the American people can have access to all of the cheap gaso­line they can c o n s u m e . President Bush, a year too late and in a very crass way ­after he became a lame duck ­sent troops to 
predecessor ..____6&•"'-------------------•~:IOJnalia to aid 
was able to put together a coalition to respond to Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait and threatening of "our" oil. That situation. in comparison to the one in Bosnia, was mild in humanitar­ian terms. A lot more people are being killed and threatened with starvation in Bosnia than in Kuwait (not that that was not a bad situation). Yet, with all of the power and prestige of the so-called "world's sole super­power." Clinton has failed to build up a consensus on real action in Bosnia. He has said that the US might supply troops to a peacekeeping mission in 
Bosnia, but the restrictions he has put on that are such that once they are met the troops will not be needed. 
Regarding Haiti. after he took office Clinton just continued the 
policy of intercepting Haitian refugees and forcibly sending them back to Haiti. This policy is a direct violation of a basic part of international refugee law which says that refugees cannot be forcibly returned to their country of origin. In addi­tion. this policy. too, was im­moral. The President was sending people back to their deaths. And. he was betraying the fundamental basis of the construction of this country _ the fact that this country has been made up of people fleeing persecution and in search of a better life. If policies such as this continue, we might as well tear down the Statue of Uberty right now because certainly the inscription at the bottom, wei­coming "huddled masses, 
yearning to be free." is no 
longer operative. Finally. in Somalia. Clinton 
in the humani­tarian mission of relieving the suffering and starvation which has wracked that country. Clinton continued the policy. Now that a few US soldiers have been killed -a tragedy. but no greater tragedy than the one that occurred before the US and others arrived to make sure the Somalian people could have access to food -there have been calls for the US to "declare victory and go home." Shades of Vietnam you say? Of course. The critics have been trying to compare this situation (as well as Bosnia) to Vietnam (of course a lot of these people are also one who would have supported US involvement in Vietnam). They say that the mandate has broadened to such 
an extent that it is no longer in our interest to be there. If it was in "our" intere.st to be 
there in the first place -and I think that it is in the interest of the entire world to attempt to relieve suffering and decrease violent conflict -I fail to see how things have changed so fundamentally. The critics must be either naive or disin­genuous to think that the con­tinuing dire humanitarian situ­ation could be addressed by just delivering food. If Somalia is ever going to return to any kind of normalcy and threats of starvation are going to disap­pear. the various factions must be disarmed and the structures of civil society must be encour­aged and built up. Only then would we be able to "declare victory." This cannot happen if the country descends further into chaos than it already is. which would be the sure result if the US and other countries withdrew their contingents from Somalia. 
In the past. Clinton has failed miserably in addressing certain fundamental issues of humani­tarian, and other. concern. On Somalia. President Clinton still has an opportunity to state forcefully that the world has changed, and has changed for the better. He can say that these ephemeral borders which we construct around certain territorial entities which we call countries do not mean that we can ignore what goes on out­side those borders. He can say that we are either part of the problem or part of the solution. We have been part of the prob­lem long enough. Perhaps it is now time to be part of the solu­tion. 
Kurt Mills is a doctoral can­didate in the Department of Government and lnternational Studies. His columns appear every other Monday. 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'' A merica's one of the ..r-\6nest countnes any­one ever stole." 
Bobcat Goldthwaite, comedian 



Backs by popular demand 
• Running back Randy Kinder scored his first career touch­down. One of many bright spots in the Irish backfield. 



See page 2 
Notre Dame pushes past Pitt 


Second half perforiDance enough to top Panthers 
earned his seventh straight winning season with the Irish. "In the first half, we turned the ball over three times. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Top-Lee Becton breaks a tackle during the first half. Below-Brian Magee (17), Justin Goheen (54) and Kinnon Tatum tackle Curtis Martin in the third quarter. 

No one is really sure whether Notre That was disappointing. The second Dame is that good or Pitt is just that half, we dominated the game. bad. The Irish did it on the ground. Twice 
It is possible that both are  in the final quarter, freshman  
true. And after watching the  tailbacks burned the Panther  
Irish's 44-0 win at chilly  defense. Randy Kinder scored  
Notre Dame Stadium you  his first career touchdown  
could make way.  a  case either  1. Florida State 2. Alabama  from 31-yards out, after set­ting up countless others this  
Pitt played one half of foot­ 3. Notre Dame  season.  
ball and Notre Dame played  4. Florida  Fellow  tailback  Robert  
the other. But three touch­ 5. Ohio State  Farmer followed  Kinder's  

downs in the final period and '---------'lead, capping a 52-yard drive a strong rushing attack pushed the Irish with ·.a 3-yard scoring run. Of Notre to their sixth win of the season, mainly Dame's 378 yards rushing, 253 came because their worst half was still better during the second half. than the Panther's best. Notre Dame distributed the ball 
"We were glad to win today, and to between four backs. Senior Lee Becton secure a winning season" said Notre Dame head coach Lou ·Holtz, who see PITII page 2 

·~--·-----------------­
page 2 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY Monday, October 11, 1993 
Depth in backfield key ingredient to offensive success 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Nobody will confuse Hay Zellars with Jerome Bettis. but Saturday the distinc­tion became a little fuzzier. 
Breaking through the line for two touchdown runs and flailing his arms in celebration, Zellars reminded many of his superstar predecessor. 
"Ray Zellars has been one of the most consistent performers on our football team," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "The void [after losing Bettis) hasn't been nearly as big as I though it would be because of the play of Zellars." 
The void in the entire offensive back­field got a little smaller Saturday. 
A maturing group of running backs is making people forget about the loss Reggie Brooks and Bettis. 

Five running backs touched the ball Saturday, combining for 322 of Notre Dame's 371 rushing yards. 
Junior Lee Becton had the first 100 yard game of his career Saturday, rolling up 146 yards on 16 carries to pace the Irish. 
Coming ofT a nagging hamstring injury that has kept him out of the lineup in recent weeks makes the performance even sweeter for Becton. 
"It feels great. [A 100 yard game) is a goal I hadn't achieved so far and it's really nice to get one," he said. 
A midweek team meeting made the difference for Becton, who had been struggling since returning from the injury. 
He said that his teammates expressed their confidence in him at the meeting. 
"I didn't have that great a week of practice," he said. "But the meeting made me more focused and determined to do well." 
That focus and determination appar­ently rubbed ofT on his backfield mates Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer. 
Both are freshmen and both are blos­soming into big-time players. 
Kinder ran for 74 yards on just nine carries and Farmer added 27 yards on six carries. Both also scored the first touchdowns of their careers Saturday, Kinder's on a 31-yard run. 
"The play was designed for me to fol­low [freshman fullback) Marc Edwards and he just threw a great block," Kinder said of his touchdown run. "Todd Norman also threw a ·good block. It was just a perfect play." 
Each week Holtz has found someone new to count on in the backfield. First came Becton and Zellars. Then Kinder. Then Edwards and Farmer. 
That kind of depth can be a problem. When five talented backs want the ball, the coach has to find a way to keep them happy without it. 

But the players don't see it as a com­petition for yardage. Every aspect of the game is important and the running backs are learning to accept their roles, whether they're asked to run the ball or open holes for someone else. 
A 6-0 record makes those roles a little easier to accept. 
"It doesn't matter whether you're run­ning or blocking, it just matters whether or not you're getting the job done," Kinder said. 'Tm just happy we're win­ning. That's all that counts." 
The depth also creates some fierce competition for playing time, which makes everyone improve. 

"Day in and day out you have to prove yourself in practice," Farmer said. "It doesn't matter if you're first team, sec­ond team or third team. Every practice is a challenge and that makes us bet­ter." 
If the players don't see the depth as a problem, Holtz certainly does. 
"Kinder, Farmer and Edwards will continue to play a big role on our team," he said. "Lee Becton is fully recovered and playing very, very well and I also think we should get the ball to Zellars more. 
"We need more than one ball." 
Some problems just can't be solved. 
IB~ P. "'''..A:lr•'• 
SEASON CUMULATIVE AVERAGE: 
QUARTERBACKS 
Failla played well in his first extended action but McDougal's turnovers brought the grade down 

RUNNING BACKS 
Rolled up big yardage and the depth is improving every week 

RECEIVERS 
Mayes dropped two catchable balls, but made up for it with a tough grab; otherwise opportunities were few 

0-LINE 
Akers and McGlinn played well in first starts and Taylor was steady as usual, but some positions remained unsettled 

D-LINE 
Knight had seven tackles in his first career start and Flanigan had NO's only sack of the day 

LINEBACKERS 
Berry, another first-time starter, 
responded with seven tackles; 
Peterson had two stops in limited 
action after returning from knee 
injury 

SECONDARY 
Two INTs, including one for a TO; competition was subpar, but secondary was superb 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
Another return for a TO, but a 
botched PAT and some poor kick 
coverage brings mark down 

COACHING 
Not because of an outstanding performance, but because it was too easy a test to get anything lower 


FINAL SCORE 
NO overcame a sloppy first half to beat the spread and make Pitt's team look as miserable as it really is 

3.2334 
Ill 




1.!:1 
~ ~ ~ 
1!!:1 
l.!j 1.!1 
~ 

Pitt 
from page 1 

got the call early and often, finishing with 142-yards on 16 carries for his first career 100-yard rushing day. He also scored the game's opening touchdown on an eight-yard run. Farmer and Kinder also had big days, the latter averaging eight-yards per carry. 
Lost in the success of the tailbacks was Ray Zellars. The junior fullback ran for a 19-yard touchdown in the first half and caught an 11-yard scor­ing pass late in the third quarter. 
"Ray Zellars has been one of the most consistent performers on our football team," Holtz said. "The void [after losing Bettis] hasn't been near­ly as big as I though it would be be­cause of the play of Zellars." 
Having rushing success against Pitt is a foregone conclusion. But the out­put was Holtz 
The Observer/David Hungeling 
Pitt quarterback John Ryan pitches to Curtis Martin during the second half. 
inserted two new starters on the offensive line. Jeremy Akers and Mike McGlinn manned the left side of the line, their first career starts. 
"Jeremy and I talked during the week and we had a lot of questions about how we were going to per­form," said McGlinn. "But we pre­pared well and the coaching staff prepared us for what we were going to face." 
The fourth quarter outburst made up for a lackluster first half in which Notre Dame scored only 13 points against a Pitt defense which had allowed an average of 23 first-half points in its four previous games. 
Quarterback Kevin McDougal had a half he will quickly forget, throwing two interceptions and fumbling. 
"I can't put my finger on what hap­pened in the first half except let's give credit to Pitt," said Holtz. "They generated three turnovers on us and we couldn't maintain anything at that time." 
The defense turned in another 
Player ofthe Game 

LEE BECTON 
running 
back 

• Becton got his first career one·hundred yard rushing day. He gained 142wyards on 16 carries and scored the game's first touchdown. 
strong performance, aided by the youthfully inept Panther offense. Pitt didn't get a first down in the second half, and tailback Curtis Martin, who entered the game first in the Big East in rushing, was held to only 11-yards in the final two quarters after rushing for 71 in the first half. 
Pitt also looked out of sync, commit­ting numerous delay of game penal­ties and at times looking like they had not yet grasped the concept of the snap count. 
"We didn't do anything on offense that gave us a prayer. much less a chance," said Majors, who's team fell to 1-4 on the year. 
They didn't much on special teams either. Irish safety Jeff Burris capped the scoring with a 60-yard punt return touchdown, degrading for Pitt considering Burris is the backup returner. 
"I am pleased at this point to have won a game," said Majors. 
Notre Dame will be pleased if they can get through the next two games and face top-ranked Florida State unbeaten. But 4-1 BYU is up next fol­lowed by rival USC. 
"We have a tough task ahead of us," said Holtz. 
And Notre Dame's coach also leaves something more for Irish fans to smile about. 
"Our football team is really going to improve from this point on." 
And for Pitt. 
"We're headed in the right direc­tion," said Majors. There's only one direction they can go. 

--------------~-----·----------------~ ---·~· ~· 
Monday, October 11, 1993 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY page3 JOCK STRIP 
Holtz can't see past the 111ountains 
N
otre Dame doesn't need a map. This is familiar territory. That's Miami they just assed. Up ahead is u"'"'·liJu,.u and Tallahassee. 
But tour guide Lou Holtz can't seem to make out the landmarks. 
He sees only the moun­tains of Provo, Utah. JASON KELLY "Going to BYU, it's proba-Associate Sports Editor one of the two most diffi-L________, places to play-the other being Miami," he 
Holtz is understandably concerned. The Cougars-although a loser to UCLA the best team Notre Dame will face before 
ovember 13 clash with Florida State. That's not saying too much. John Robinson hasn't made anyone forget 
mith at USC. And Navy is, well, Navy. But Holtz can't look ahead. The mountains high. 
He sounded surprised that his team is an unde feated national championship contender midway through the season. 
"Being honest, I wouldn't have been able to tell 
who we'd lose to because I don't expect to lose any games and I don't expect to win the following one," Holtz said. 
"I expect to win the one this week. I'm shocke we won last week but I really don't expect to win the one after this. That's just my attitude." 
What? Somewhere in there is the combination of confi­and pessimism that makes up Holtz'
,.,v......,,,...,,,., personality. Everyone, including Holtz, knows that Notr is better than the three teams cluttering ule before The Showdown. And everyone, except Holtz and his players, king forward to it. Holtz knows that if he allows his team to loo Running back Lee Becton goes airborn during the second quarter for some of his team high 142 yards. 
past any opponent, there won't be a Showdown. He is counting on a lot of improvemen more wins-from the Irish before he g about Florida State. 
"Our football team is really going to from this point on," Holtz said. "I think the atti­tude, the maturity and the way the players are accepting their roles are signs that we are already showing a lot of improvement. 
"We're going to need it." Saturday's thrashing of Pitt wasn't a good mea­
stick of the team's improvement to date. The Irish are neither as bad as they looked first half nor as good as they looked' in the l"tlll-ULIU half. a way of magnifying an opponent 
test awaits this week. The Cougars no Florida State, but they are no ither. Maybe after a win over Brigham Young, th landmarks on the horizon will become a li The ObserverfT.J. Harris clearer for Notre Dame's tour guide. Quarterback Paul Failla leaps for extra yardage in the second half. 
SCORE BY QUARTERS RUSHING RUSHING 
1 2 3 4 F ATT YDS AVG TD LG ATT YDS AVG TO LG Pittsburgh (1-4) 0 0 0 0 0 Becton 16 142 8.9 1 34 Martin 19 72 3.8 0 28 Notre Dame (6·0) 7 6 10 21 44 Kinder 9 74 8.2 1 31 West 2 11 5.5 0 7 Zellars 12 67 5.6 2 19 Green 1 3 3.0 0 3 Farmer 6 27 4.5 1 13 Colicchio 2 3 1.5 0 3

SCORING SUMMARY 
McDougal 4 20 5.0 0 9 Gonzales 4 ·2 ·0.5 0 1 QTR TEAM PLAY TIME Failla 3 15 5.0 0 7 Ryan 2 ·3 ·1.5 0 0 1 NO Becton 8 run (Pendergast kick) 8:36 Edwards 3 12 4.0 0 4 2 ND Zellars 19 run (run failed) 13:03 Klusas 2 8 4.0 0 6 

PASSING
3 ND Pendergast 27 FG 4:45 Lytle 3 6 2.0 0 4 ND Zellars 11 run (Pendergast kick) 0:42 COMP ATT YDS TD INT 4 NO Kinder 31 run (Pendergast kick) 13:00 Ryan 8 12 38 0 1

PASSING
NO Farmer 3 run (Marsh kick) 6:29 Gonzales 0 3 0 0 1 NO Burris 60 punt return 4:44 COMP ATT YDS TD INT (Schroffner kick) McDougal 7 12 132 0 2 

RECEIVING
Failla 4 5 36 0 0 NO YDS AVG TO LG Martin 7 22 3.1 0 15

TEAM STATISTICS RECEIVING 
Green 1 16 16.0 0 16 PITT ND NO YDS AVG TD LG First Downs 5 31 Zellars 3 24 8.0 0 14 

DEFENSE
by rushing 4 24 Mayes 2 74 37.0 0 55 by passing 1 7 Dawson 2 27 13.5 0 22 T A TOT TL FA PBU INT 
Total yardage 122 539 Jarrell 1 16 16.0 0 16 Williams 7 2 9 0 0 1 1 Offensive plays 45 75 Stafford 13 13.0 0 13 Whaley 1 7 8 0 0 0 0 Avg. yards per play 2.7 7.2 Becton 8 8.0 0 8 Reardon 5 2 7 0 0 0 0 Rushing yards 84 371 McBride 6 6.0 0 6 McCray 3 4 7 0 0 0 0 Rushing plays 30 58 Clark 2 5 7 0 0 0 0 Passing yards 38 168 Sumner 4 2 6 1 0 0 1

DEFENSE
Passes completed 8 11 Jones 2 4 6 0 0 0 0 Passes attempted 15 17 T A TOT TL PBU SAC Moody 2 3 5 1 0 0 0 Passes intercepted 2 2 Knight 4 3 7 0 0 0 Tumulty 0 5 5 0 1 0 0 Fumbles • fumbles lost 1 ·0 1·1 Goheen 1 3 4 1 0 0 Halapin 3 1 4 1 0 0 0 Penalties • penalty yards 7·41 3·20 Wagsay 3 0 3 0 0 0 J. Williams 2 2 4 0 0 0 0 Magee 2 1 3 0 0 0 Chavis 1 3 4 0 0 0 0 Hamilton 1 2 3 0 0 0 Mosley 2 1 3 0 0 0 0 
10/10 TEAM (FIRST PLACE VOTES) RECORD POINTS 1013 
1. Florida 1549 1 2. 1480 2 3. Notre 1413 4 4. Florida 1365 5 5. Ohio 1245 6 6. Nebraska 1169 7 7. Penn State 1163 8 8. Miami 1156 3 9. Oklahoma 1073 10 10. Tennessee 1021 11 957 12
11. 
Arizona 

12. 
Washi 


828 13 

13. Texas A& 
809 14 14. North Carolina 697 15 15. Virginia 613 18 16. Wisconsi. 556 21 17. West Virgi 470 24 18. Mich· 451 9 19. Auburn 426 22 20. Col 408 20 21. California 5-1-0 346 16 22. UCLA ····3..,2-0 287 25 23. Louisville 5-1-o 212 17 
24. 178 23 25. 142 
35, Indiana 22, Brigham ' ' 
l• ' 
Young 19, 

! 1 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

f 
' ~ 
page 4 

The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY Monday, October 11, 1993 
New starters make best of opportunity 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Ediwr 

The Notre Dame coaching 
staff took advantage of a poor 
Pitt team to take a look at some 
new players on both offense 
and defense. 

Defensive coordinator Rick 
Minter mixed things up a bit, 
replacing linebacker Jeremy 
Sample with freshman Bert 
Berry. Minter also moved Jim 
Flanigan from end to tackle and 
gave Thomas Knight his first 
start of the season at rush end. 

"We saw that Jim is basically 
a down guy and we needed an 
extra end," said Knight. "With 
me in the lineup we lose 
strength but gain speed." 

Berry and Knight made a nice 
impression, tying for the team 
lead in tackles with seven. 

Knight is the most likely of the two to remain in the start­ing lineup. He has played dur­ing passing downs this season, 
~-~--""~­
• .,.. • * ........, '" y , 
.. --J· '. \. .. \_ . .., -~--~ ~1 <;., :. 
."i41

,.
-
! 
~ 
The ObSetVerfT.J. Harris 
Mike McGlinn got his first career start at offensive guard. 

spelling Brian Hamilton. Next weekend against a passing team like BYU, Knight will probably get most of the snaps. 
Berry should receive stiff competition, especially when former starters Pete Bereich and Anthony Peterson fully re­cover from early season in­juries. 
On offense, Holtz benched starting right tackle Todd Norman and replaced him with Jeremy Akers, and senior Mike McGlinn started in place of the injured Ryan Leahy. 
Both were making their first starts but played well as the Irish ran at will against the Panther defense. 
"I've been here four years and seen a lot of great guys ahead of me," said McGlinn. "It felt good to finally get a start and for the team to win." 
It doesn't appear that Norman will be replaced by Akers. Norman came into the game during the second half and performed well. 
Holtz is undecided whether the other changes are perma­nent but he is insistent on putting the best players on the field, no matter their age or ex­perience. 
"I don't send a message through the news media and I don't send a message through the depth chart," said Holtz. "I send the results through the depth chart." 
The shuffling of players leaves positions unsettled but it also has a positive side. 
"When you have some injured players you have to play a lot of people and you create some depth," Holtz said. 

Injures and inconsistent play forced some of the coaching staff to make changes but it was also the improvement of the younger players. 
"These freshman displayed the attitude and maturity of seniors," Holtz said. "They un­derstand the seriousness of meeting standards. I'm pleased with their improvement. I see improvement that is not obvi­ous to people that aren't as close to the game. They accept coaching and criticism better than most freshman I've seen." 
"Many people on our team are accepting a role, and ready to take off. We are really im­proving in some areas. I see a lot of things, little things, which is not obvious to most people that shows that we are improv­ing." 


LAW SCHOOL CARAVAN 
Wednesday, October 13 
10:00 a.m. --2:00 p.m. Center for Continuing Education 
Representatives From 55 Law Schools Nationwide 
Answers to questions about the decision to attend law school Selecting a law school 
Application information for 68 schools 


All Students Invited! 
I Co-Sponsored by 
i 
Career and Placement Services and Pre-Law Society 
A PAlATABLE SELECTION OF CONTROVERSIAL MUSIC AND MEXICAN FOOD 






CLUB 23 , ~ 
PRESENTS: ~ ~~~ J ~ \ ~<+
~\-rn ~ ~u1111~ ·~ 
~ 234-4015 ~" Ill~ Tk8~t tlak ;V.,.tioftie8111'1.,-tl" 
BANDITO'S BURRITOS & CLUB 23 HAVE TEAMED UP TO BRING YOU GREAT FOOD AND GREAT ENTERTAINMENT AT ONE CONVENIENT LOCATION 
THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 2:~4-4015 


THEOAK ROOM 
DAILY LUNCH AND DINNER SPECIALS 
Open: Monday -Friday 7:00am-7:00pm 
Breakfast-7:00am-10:00 am Lunch-11:00 am-2:00pm Dinner-5:00pm-7:00pm 
~ ..............................................,...................................... '"'"'"'''"'"'"'"""'"''""""'"''""'"""'""'""""'""'"'"""'""'""'""""'"""""'"'"""""""'"""'"'"'"""""""""""'" .. 
DAILY MENU LINE-631-7518 WEEKLY MENU AVAILABLE THROUGH GOPHER 
Located in South Dining Hall 


ACCENT 
Monday, Octoberll, 1993 page9 
CSC Student advisory board sets new goals 
By DAN PIER  to make tremendous contribu­ ways of getting students in­ ficult because we didn't share  Throughout its existence. the  
Accent Writer  tions to the center and the  volved in policymaking for the  the same general vision of what  Student Advisory Board has  
University in general.  center," Royer said.  the  board  would  be,"  she  continued to grow and evolve.  
It was lunch break, and all  Student advisors attend all  "This is the best way we've  added.  in some ways that were expect­ 
was well at the September. 1992. conference of the Indiana  esc staff meetings and offer in­put on how to direct the center.  found. The student initiative made it so much more alive.  With all that trouble focusing, the board had nowhere to  ed and some that were not. Junior Kellie Abbott, the  
Consortium for Voluntary Service. By virtue of its well-de­veloped social service program. Notre Dame was at the fore­ A monthly CSC newsletter will debut in November. keeping students informed about the center's 30 service groups and  The students took seriously their roles in a way we haven't had before." she said. Though Goldrick. McBride.  channel its enthusiasm. For much of last year. things re­mained on the level of vision. leaving the group with little  board's liaison to Student Government. felt the group was originally focused narrowly on the esc.  
front of the consortium's efforts  various special events.  and the eight students they re- concrete progress to show for  "We've evolved into a cam­ 
to build a statewide network of  all of its time and energy.  pus-wide catalyst,"  Abbott  
student volunteers. After all. of the 13 colleges and universities present. Notre Dame was the only one with a Center for Social Concerns  'There are a lot of good people out there doing good work, and combining the energy and talent of various groups can only create positive results.'  Enthusiasm waned. Concerned about the future of the board. its leaders planned a retreat to begin the 1993-94 school year.  explained. "We're working with student groups. Student Government. and the Observer as well as with the esc staff." "There are a lot of good peo­ 
(CSC) devoted solely to commu­nity service and a staff of trained professionals running its program. The schools were gathered for the occasion of deciding how best to use a grant from the Commission on National  The board will sponsor a lec­turer on a different social issue each month and inform stu­dents how to become involved in that month's issue through  Kellie Abbott cruited were serious about their task last fall. they were not sure exactly what that task would be. Their first step was to decide where they wanted to  The retreat was primarily aimed to provide focus for the board, but a second, perhaps equally important motive was involved. "The retreat was a good shar­ing experience, and we got to know each other." Goldrick  ple out there doing good work. and combining the energy and talent of various groups can only create positive results." The board is still seeking new ways to produce positive results. Goldrick believes that the first year has been a good  
and Community Service. Everything was great except for one thing, according to seniors Shaheen Goldrick and  service groups. The board also sends repre­sentatives to the Indiana Campus Compact, the new  go with the board. The goals of the group were somewhat clear: to be an in­formed student voice in deci­ said. "To have enthusiasm for a group. you have to feel like you belong and you have friend­ships. We have that now."  step, but there is a long way to go. "I don't think we've reached what we hoped to. but it's a lot  
Kathleen McBride.  group formed out of the consor­ sion-making at the esc and to  Working with a renewed spir­ closer than it was last year."  
"We have great professionals at the esc. but we were wor­ tium. to share ideas with stu­dents who serve on the other  help students -both on the Notre Dame campus and across  it of togetherness. the group members produced some spe­ said Goldrick. "To really attain our vision, people have to know  
ried there would be no student  campuses.  the many campuses statewide - cific ideas.  about us and use us. That's  
input in discussions of the cen­ter and the grant." explained Goldrick. "We wanted student  Kathy Royer. CSC coordinator of service and social action groups. was delighted by the  communicate effectively about service issues and their activi­ties.  They drew up a tentative mis­sion statement confirming their  very difficult." Royer. for one, knows all about the board and uses it  
involvement. We wanted to be  enthusiasm that the new group  The hard part was figuring  original goals  of fostering  well.  Compared  to  past  
heard."  exhibited.  out how to achieve those objec­ awareness. encouraging stu­ attempts to originate a group  
Out of Goldrick and McBride's  Since the center's inception in  tives. There was much discus­ dent initiative, and supporting  like the board. she explained,  
lunchtime chat grew an idea for just how to achieve maximum student input: the pair pro­posed to form a Student Advisory Board to the Center for Social Concerns.  1983, its staff has attempted several times to begin a stu­dent-driven component. but nothing lasting came of those efforts. Royer believes that this time has been different because  sion and a lot of wonderful­sounding ideas that would be difficult to concretize. "We wanted each role on the board to change with the char­acteristics of the person in it."  student action. The steps listed to achieve those goals include forming the monthly issue series and spon­soring a statewide workshop on service in the second semester.  this one is not far away from achieving its goals. "The people on the board are really good people," Royer said. "It really takes a load off of me to have such involved, commit­ 
After more than a year of hard work. the two lead a 10­ the students came up with the idea themselves.  said Goldrick. "We wanted everyone to envi­ With its course plotted more carefully. the board has run  ted people. I don't consider the board in its infancy. I trust  
member body that is beginning  "We have tried a number of  sion their role. But that was dif­ smoothly this year.  them completely."  

Knute Rockne's private letters published for the first time in new book on the creation of ND football 
By MATI CARBONE Notre Dame football. be found there the next morn­Accent writer One of these myths is the ing. deathbed speech of Notre Dame If people are wondering if the 
How did the Fightin' Irish get All-American George Gipp, a dome is tarnished now. they their nickname? Did George speech made famous by Ronald should have seen it then. Gipp really tell Knute Rockne Reagan. who played Gipp in the Players regularly bet on the on his deathbed to "Win one for 1940 feature film Knute games they played in, and on the Gipper"? And what kind of Rockne-All-American . and a their own performances. a person was Gipp, anyway? speech which has since become Sperber recounts one episode 
These questions and many a part of the national con­where Gipp bet someone in more are answered in "Shake sciousness. Indianapolis that he would per­Down the Thunder," Murray As the legend goes. Gipp, sonally outscore the entire Sperber's history of the forma­nearing death from pneumonia, Indiana team during their game tive years of Notre Dame foot­told Knute Rockne that. when in 1920. making him especially ball. the Irish players needed a lift eager to get back into the game 
In "Shake Down the during a game. Rockne should after suffering a dislocated Thunder." Sperber documents tell them to "Win one for the shoulder. and traces the first 23 years of Gipper." The book, however. is not all Notre Dame football, from its Eight years later. during half­negative about the team. fledgling underdog beginnings time of a 1928 contest in which Sperber. a professor of English to its growth and emergence as Notre Dame trailed Army. and American Studies at a perennial powerhouse adored Rockne told his beleagured Indiana University. also includ­by millions nationwide. team to win one for the Gipper. ed many positive stories about 
which inspired them to victory the appeal and following of 

While there have been count­in the second half. Notre Dame football. less other books written on the According to Sperber. the One of these stories is a Notre subject of Notre Dame football. speech by Gipp to Rockne is a Dame student reporter's 
Sperber's has a quality that complete falsehood. No one account of the "subway alumni" makes it unique among this ever called Gipp "Gipper." and support at a 1919 Notre Dame 
Irish at West Point grew to most of whom were Irish­
crowd -he was given full access he did not call himself by that .vs. Army game at West Point. 
50.000 strong. American. and yelled, "What'sto the private letters of Knute nickname. More likely. said This reporter described the 
As for the team name. the matter with you guys.
Rockne, which had heretofore Sperber. is that Gipp 's words 700 loyal fans who lustily Sperber said that it probably You're all Irish and you're notbeen left unopened and were fabricated by the great cheered the 12-9 come-from­came about because of the pre­fighting!"
untouched in the basement of motivator Rockne. in order to behind victory by the Irish: "Of dominance of Irish at Notre Then there is the story of how the Hesburgh library. salvage what had been a disap­these. some were graduates. 
Dame. but there are more· one student reporter. trying toDrawing upon these letters. pointing losing season. some had hoped to be, others interesting tales circulating. come up with a non-ethnicold student newspaper and Sperber also detailed one leg­are going to be, some were just Some think that Notre Dame name, chose the "Blue Comets"Scholastic articles. and numer­end explaining how Gipp friends. and many just friends was donned it's name during a because of the team's blue uni­ous other sources, Sperber has caught the pneumonia that of friends of Notre Dame." 
1909 battle with Michigan. a forms and quick offense. 
created a rich and complete killed him -the carousing Gipp Notre Dame player looked at Let's be thankful that thishistory of the truth behind the got so drunk one night that he Within a few years, said his bedraggled teammates, name did not catch on.
legends and myths surrounding passed out in the snow. only to Sperber. these 700 cheering the 

The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL Monday, October II, I993 

Miami's Marino out for season 

By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 

Dan Marino is gone. sidelined with a torn Achilles tendon. Bernie Kosar is gone. sidelined by his coach. 
Drew Bledsoe and Steve Emtman. the top two choices of the last two drafts. also went down Sunday on a rough day in the NFL. 
The injury to Marino came late in the first half in Cleveland. where the Dolphins beat the Browns 24-14. Marino. the NFL's most durable quar­terback. had a string of 145 straight starts for Miami (4-1). He won't make 146 after tear­ing his right Achilles tendon while planting his foot for a 10­yard completion. He was helped off the field and returned to the sidelines on crutches in the fourth quarter. 
Dr. Daniel Kanell. the team physician, made the original di­agnosis. But the team said it would wait until returning to Miami before making plans. al­though such injuries normally take months to heal. 
"We are hoping. somehow. some way that it is not the more serious torn Achilles injury. which puts him out for the year," coach Don Shula said. 
Marino's replacement. Scott Mitchell -who almost didn't suit up because of a seriously inflamed eye -had thrown just eight passes in three previous seasons. He hit on 10 of 16 passes for 80 yards. including touchdowns of 19 yards to Tony Martin and 3 to Keith Jackson. That came after Mitchell's first pass was picked off by Najee Mustafaa. who set a Browns' record with his 97-yard TD runback. 
"I knew I wouldn't play un­less Dan got hurt," he said. 'Tm not happy about the in­jury. but this is my shot and I've got to take it." 
Kosar, ineffective for the third straight game for Cleveland (3-2). was benched for Vinny Testaverde, who didn't do much better. But after the game. coach Bill Belichick announced a switch to Testaverde for next week against Cincinnati. 
"He's been moving the team when he's been in there," Belichick said. "That's what we need offensively." 
Bledsoe sprained the medial collateral ligament in his left knee in New England's first vic­tory this season. 23-20 at Phoenix. Emtman tore liga­ments and tendons in his right knee as Indianapolis fell to Dallas 27-3. 
At night, Green Bay held off Denver 30-27. 
In other games. Chicago handed Philadelphia its first de­feat. 17-6; the Los Angeles Raiders beat the New York Jets 24-20; Pittsburgh took San Diego 16-3; the New York Giants routed Washington 41-7; Kansas City beat Cincinnati 17­15; and Minnesota blanked Tampa Bay 15-0. 
Monday night's game is Houston at Buffalo. 
The Observer accep!S classific:ds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFotrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 ccniS per character per day, including all spaces. 
GREEKS & CLUBS  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  NEED 4-8 USC GA'S  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2  I need 4 US9 GAs.  Can pay big  
NOTICES  RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6  CALL JOE@ X1613  FSU GA'S. BILL 614-885-4616.  $$$. call JP x4-3073.  
Typing  ONE WEEKI For your fraternity, sorority or club. Plus $1,000 for  days includes12 meals $279! Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291  NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889  I NEED 3-4 USC GA'S X1781  PERSONAL  
287-4082  yourself! And a FREE T-SHIRT just  Cancun from Chicago $439,  (MARK)  
for calling. 1-800-932.0528, ext. 75.  Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  PLEASE!! I I NEED FSU STU TIX.  ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­ 
TYPING Plus computer services  West $239, Daytona Room w/  NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S.  THERESA  X2756  agement and security to the pre­ 
Term papers, newsletters, etc. Free  $$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386  MUST HAVEl! CALL 272-7233.  cious life your are carrying; a full­ 
pickup and delivery, (times will be  BRUNO'S NEEDS Driversllll  Need2 USC GA  time mom and loving dad; married  
scheduled). $2.00 per page, $10.00  PT for Campus Deliveries.  SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS  FOR SALE: GA'S ALL GAMES.  Maxx1088  12 years; promises that your child  
minimum. Call Unda Green. 674­ Call John 288-3320  SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A  2n-1659.  will have every opportunity. Please  
4160  $$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO ND  Need 4 USC GA's  call Phil and Maureen at (800)545­ 
VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE  NEED 4 GATIX FOR PITI., USC &  Call Jeff x2000  8195.  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT  FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297.  
CALL 259-8684.  $700/wk cannery workers;  MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT  NEED 2 USC GAs 634-1786 DESI  Sophomores!!!  
$4000/mo. deckhands. Alaska fish­ 284-5062  NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­ 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS  ing Industry now hiring for nex1 sum­ LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­ WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  
VOLUNTEER OCT. 12 AT THE  mer. 11,000 openings. No exp. nec­ Floral pullout couch. 259-3023  6183.  FLA. ST. and USC GA"S 2n3097  Consider a life of patient love from  
EL CAMPITO DAY CARE  essary. Free rm. & bd. These jobs  Mom, financial security from Dad,  
MEET AT 2:45 AT MAIN CIRCLE  go fast! Employment Alaska. 1-206­ ONE WAY TICKET TO  We will purchase at handsome price  2 NOTRE DAME VS. BYU FOOT­ laughter and music in a country  
323-2672  SAN ANTONIO  four seats together for the Florida  BALL TICKETS FOR SALE  home for your baby.  Please call  
GOING THROUGH CINCINNATI  State game. Pis. call (800) 457­ BEST OFFER.  Lynda and Pat at1-800-226-5172  
Need Business Cards?  SPRING BREAK '94 -SELL TRIPS,  AND ATLANTA  0486.  On 15 yard line, row 15.  anytime.  
-call Adworks 1-6756  EARN CASH & GO FREE!! I  LEAVES THE EVENING OF  Call Dave in Utah at801-373-2931  
LOW PRICES, HIGH QUALITYII  Student Travel Services is now hir­ OCT  22  CA Alum paying top $ for FLA  alter 8pm EST.  ADOPTION IS LOVE  
ing campus reps.  CALL  X 1316  STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566  Loving Indiana medical profession­ 
ATIENTION ALL CAMPUS  Call1-800-648-4849.  als eager to adopt newborn.  
BANDSII BATILE OF THE BANDS  3 FL ST GA'S 4 SALE Ph 708-420­ 4 Sale Stu Tix Pitt USC FSU & BC  MedicaVLegal paid. Confidential.  
OCT. 14 ON FIELD HOUSE MALL  Need a quiet place to study?  We  ONE WAY TICKET TO  9309  2 FSU GAs x1850  Call our home toll free to hear all  
CALL RICH X-43262 TO SIGN UP.  need babysitters for some evenings  SAN ANTONIO GOING  about us. Jaci and John 1-800-224­ 
ILOST & FOUND I  and weekends for our 4 yr old. We have a quiet apartment at Castle Point. Call 273-2528 LM.  THROUGH CINCINNATI AND ATLANTA LEAVES THE EVENING OF  Wanted: ND-FSU tix. No brokers. Call collect PM. Brantley H. Atlanta (404)396-8715.  WANTED: 3 USC GA'S CALL LIZ X1912  2429.  
OCT  22  CALL  X 1316  National Coming Out Day is  
LOST NO class ring with full name  We need a Kegirator. Interested in  I NEED FLORIDA ST. TIX  Monday, October 11. Take your  
on it lost 9/25 Purdue weekend In  selling us one. Please give us a call.  SELLING-FSU GA's  STUDSorGA­ next step!  
SORIN 1ST floor or basement  234-2793  AIRLINE TICKET. FALL BREAK  Cali Dan @ 273-0986  call Tim x1230  
REWARD $$150 $100 if you know  ONE-WAY TWA, M or F, So. Bend  glndlsmc po 194 nd IN 46556  
of whereabouts-no names or  to Albuquerque via St. Louis.  HELP!!I Need 10 tickets, yes 10  
questions asked PLEASE call Ryan  Anybody going to NJ over break? I  Lvs. Fri. Oct. 22, $100.  tickets, so my Florida family can see  Need USC GA's I Flor. Stdnt Tks  ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE  
at  634-2290 or room 105, 103  need a ride. Will help with gas, tolls,  Chris x4107.  NO beat FSU.  Matt  232-3870  MEETING  
SORIN THANK YOU  etc. Call Elaine x2342  Please call Kevin at 4-2265  TONIGHT  
SELLING FSU & BC TICKETS  WANTED: NO/USC GA TIX CALL  7:30  
LOST: blue London Fog jacket with  Lisa 232-4112  NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA  412-352-3216  107 LA FORTUNE  
liner. around Oct. 1. Call Eric  STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR.  
at3376.  1982 TOYOTA CELICA GT, 5  GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO  Desperate lifelong NO fan needs  SMC WOMEN! Want to visit your  
I need a ride to and from DC  SPD., $1,500 -VERY NEGO­ GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­ two Florida State/NO GA's. Will pay  high school over break as SMC  
leaving before USC. Call1293.  TIABLE Ill CALL 271-1866  1429  top dollar! Call1-407-788-1582 alter  rep? Sign up-Admission Office.  
LOST: Black Eastpak backpack  5pm.  Mandatory meeting Thurs. Oct 21  
containing my "life" (i.e. computer  5:30 pm Stapleton Lounge.  
disks, books, loafers) Last seen SOH. Please return. I NEED MY  WANTED: LOCAL REAL TOR  TICKETS  I NEED TIXS FOR PITI, USC AND BC, AND I'VE GOT MONEY!! I  Please help mel  SENIORS!!II  
STUFFIII Reward offered. x4944  SEEKING HOSTESSES TO  CALL AARON @ 271-2908  CELEBRATE COLUMBUS DAY  
HOUSE SIT OPEN HOUSES.  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  Need 1 Florida State student ticket.  WITH THE KIDS AT EL CAMPITO  
FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING 2-4  TIXS.272-6306  Will trade 2 BC for 2 USC. Call  DAY CARE. TUES. OCT. 12­ 
FOUND: MULTI-STRAND BLUE  HOURS PER DAY, VARIOUS  Sean@ 271-n04  Call Colleen at 273-5901.  MEET AT MAIN CIRCLE AT 2:45  
BEADED FISHHOOK EARRING  DAYS OF THE WEEK. CALL SUE  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  
AROUND THE LAKES. CALL  AT CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE  HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  Need 2 USC GA's  Deadline extension for registration  
ANNE 284-5212.  REALTY 282-2351.9-5 MON-FRI  JANE AT 1-800-264-3278.  Will pay $100 ea  2 FLA GA'S FOR SALE  for Fall break seminar trip (1 credit)  
x1868  best offer KATIE X3782  to L' Arche communities for disabled  
.__w._'A~N~T=E~D_  __.ll.___F_O_R_RE_N_T_  __.  FSU TIX NEEDEDIIIIIIII CALL CRAIG @273-3942 PLEASEII  FLA ST STU. TIX FOR SALE! SERIOUS $$$$ ONLY  NEED 4 USC GA'S CALL DAN x3402  persons in Toronto. Contact Brother Bonaventure Scully at 1­7353  
Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­ CALL CHARLES AT x1 055  
GREEKSICLUBS!STUDENT  Private.  NO vs USC -Need tickets for  For Sale: 4 Tickets for the BYU v.  Dude, gel a job.  
GROUPS! Raise as Much as You  257-9101  10/23 game.Chris Marks  TRADE TICKETS:  Notre Dame game. Tickets are  Info on a career in Client Service  
Want In One Week'  800-523-3139.  4 BYU FOR 4 USC.  together, 4th row, approx. 25 yard  with Leo Burnett.  
$100 ... $600 ...$15001 Market  LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN.  CALL BOB (818) 793-9254.  line. Will take best offer as of  Tuesday, Oct. 12, 7 p.m.  
Applications for Cit1bank VISA, MCI.  SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO  Alumni needs 3 tickets for USC  10/13/93. Call (801)379-3051  University Club  
SEARS, AMOCO etc. Call for your  CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM­ game will pay $ Call Skip collect @  DESPERATELY NEED NO-USC  All Majors Welcome!!  
FREET-SHIRT and to qualify for  PUS $225. M0.272-6306  (602) 998-7576  GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT  
FREE TRIP to MTV SPRING  287-4561 AFTER 6 PM.  NEED 6 GAs to ND vs. USC  
BREAK '94, CALL ~ -800.932-0528,  ROOMS FOR RENT, FURN,NEAR  NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210  PLEASE call (517)347-8744 ASAP!  •stuart Nicolai-Have you checked  
EXT. 65.  CAMPUS.AVAIL NOW.272-6306  NEED USC GA'S FOR MY PAR­ your e-mail lately?  
Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261  ENTS. CALL JIM @ 289-6648.  2 Notre Dame-BYU tickets 4 sell 40  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ FOR SALE  I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix  yrd line call Lance@ (801)375­9264 6-7:30am or 6-11pm MST  Otisberg...  
Earn up to $2000..-tmonth + world  Adm. only.  to FLORIDA ST $$$.  
travel (Hawaii. Mexico, the  8 AIRLINE TICKETS FOR SALE  Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653-7162,  800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c ,oooooo>,,,,,,,,,u,,,,,,,,  Otisberg....  
Caribbean, etc.). Summer and  Orange County to Chicago 10/21  (W) 201-992-8700  I, like everyone else in the world,  
Career employment available. No  Chicago to Orange County 1 0/24  N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets  need 4 USC tickets. I'm more des­ Glynn  
experience necessary. For more information call 1-206·634-0468  Only $333/each round trip Michelle Coleman 800-854-4643  Need 2 GAs for any home game Call Tim at273-1757  Call Frank or John 1-800-749-5975  perate than all of them, though.  You 're catching up Score: 10-6  
ext.C5584  x1515 all hours  Will trade DISNEY tickets  Please call me-Diane x4253.  

.---------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, October 11, 1993 
The Observer • MEN'S SOCCER page 11 


Two goals good enough for Irish 
By MIKE NORBUT Xavier had entered the game lowing the loss. Notre Dame. Sports Writer on Friday with a distinct advan­now 3-1 in conference play. tage over the Irish in many ar­holds a share of the lead in the 
Unfortunately, the Notre eas. Midwestern Collegiate Dame men's soccer team only The Muskateers were leading Conference. scored two goals this weekend the Midwestern Collegiate Sunday. Notre Dame took to in games at Xavier and Ohio Conference with a 2-0 record. the road once again. this time State. and had defeated Notre Dame to Columbus to face Ohio State. 
Fortunately. both goals 1-0 a year ago. Furthermore. In what turned out to be a proved to be winning ones as Xavier were defending their test of pure emotion and physi­the Irish recorded two 1-0 vic­home field against the Irish. cal aggressiveness. the Irish tories. The Irish were led by who had not been on the road prevailed again by the score of sophomore Bill Lanza. who tal­since September 14. 1-0. lied both goals. and Bert Bader. "This game is extremely im­The distribution of seven yel­who recorded his third and portant to us. We have to be low cards over the course of the fourth full shutout of the sea­ready to play," were the words game provided enough in­son. of Irish coach Mike Berticelli terruption to throw both of­
Both games were marked by Friday afternoon. fenses out of sync. but Notre physical. aggressive play by the His stress on concentration Dame was able to play through Irish midfielders. who were made a lasting impact on the it. able to control the tempo of Irish. as they put together two With 8:02 to play in the first each contest. halves of strong play to stifle half. Lanza once again scored 
Last weekend. the Irish saw the conference leaders. to give the Irish a 1-0 advan­their hopes of winning the The only score of the game tage. Mike Palmer and Oates Notre Dame Classic in front of came at the 38:32 mark in the were credited the assists on the their home crowd fizzle when first half. when Bill Lanza play. they fell to No. 12 Penn State 1-knocked in a Tim Oates cross Similar to Friday's contest. 0 after posting a 2-0 win over pass to give the Irish a 1-0 half­the Buckeyes stepped up their No. 14 South Carolina the day time lead. offensive effort in the second before. The Muskateers increased half. but could not overcome 
"Overall. we were disap­their offensive pressure after the deficit against a suffocating pointed," said defender Chris halftime, tallying seven of their Irish defense. led by Dane Dean following the tournament. ten shots on goal in the second Whitley and Tont Richardson. "We were looking to turn the half. With the loss, Ohio State corner. and we could have with But the Irish defense stepped dropped to 4-7-1. while Notre a win over both South Carolina up their intensity. as Bert Dame improved their record to and Penn State." Bader recorded four of his five 8-4. 
So. following the tough loss. saves following intermission. The Irish will be in action a determined Irish squad trav­The Irish tallied fifteen shots in again on Wednesday evening. elled to Ohio this weekend the contest to aid in the victory. as they host conference foe focused on adding two wins to Xavier dropped to 2-1 in the Loyola of Chicago at Alumni their record. conference and 3-8 overall fol-Field. 

"The Traditon Continues" NOTRE DAME STUDENTS, FACULTY, STAFF, RETIREES &RETIREE SPOUSES: 
uslwts 
dates: OCTOBER 12th, 13th &14th 
Friday, October 15th at Spm 
II times: 9:30am· 6:30pm (12th &13th)
Former Motley Crue frontman 
Tues. October 

9:30am -12 noon (14th)
VINCE NEIL 
26 

locations: liBRARY CONCOURSE 
On sale at ell ~zz-. 

LAFORTUNE /O'HARA LOUNGE
outlets end the Stele theatre Sox Office. Charge by phone ct 

Must present N.D. identification and wear short-sleeved shirt/top in order to receive injection sponsored by Student Affairs & Human Resources 
616-345-6500 



Make the choice to make a change. 
National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week 
Sponsored by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 

----~---~-------, 
page 12 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISMENT Monday, October 11, 1993 
National Coming Out Day 
~ow EVe[!Jyone c~n Celeb[!J~te 
October 11 is National Coming Out Day. It is a day when millions of lesbian, gay, and bisexual Americans tell the truth about who they are. 
For most gay people the coming out process is not a one-day event, but rather a series of small steps over time: from basic self-acceptance, to telling friends and family, to feeling proud and celebrating who they are. 
Sometimes a person just needs to take that next step. Friends can help make taking that step a little easier. Here are some suggestions to help everyone celebrate: 

• 
Refuse to laugh at queer jokes. • Tell your lesbian sisters and gay brothers 

• 
Learn one thing about gay American history. that you love them. 

• 
Visit a bookstore's gay/lesbian section. • Invite a gay person to speak at your dorm. 

• 
Donate money to a gay/lesbian organization. • Wear a pink triangle. 

• 
Declare your room. class. lab. office. section. • Listen to what your gay friends have to say. or work space a ..safe zone." • Strive for liberty and justice for all. 

• 
Come out to yourself. • Join the armed forces. 

• 
Quit saying "[ just haven1t met the right girl/boy yet." • Come out to God. 

• 
Write that long-overdue letter to Gays and Lesbians • Visit the Tom Dooley statue by the Grotto. at You-Know-Where (address below). • Write"[ cadt even think straight!" on the boJrds. 

• 
Imagine being completely out of the closet. • Swish during the 'lou· cheer. 

• 
Assume everyone you meet today is gay or lesb1an. • Come to the Most Fabulous Dinner Party on 

• 
Admit that you have a crush on that cute girl/boy. Saturday, October 16 (RSVP address below). 

• 
Enjoy boy watching. • Blast "Work It Girr from your stereo. 

• 
Enjoy girl watching. • Send him flowers. 

• 
Practice saying 'Tm gay." • Come out to your therapist. 

• 
Come out to your cat. • Cross-dress your favorite doll. 

• 
Tattoo "dyke" on your tummy. • Write "It's not just a phase" on your hand. 

• 
Write a letter to your best friend. • Vogue at your next SYR. 

• 
Flame in class. • Come out to all your gay friends. 

• 
Send her flowers. o Be yourself. 



This message brought to you by A group of Gays and Lesbians with a mall box at A National Catholic Teaching and Research University and a highly-ranked women's college named after the Mother of God 
P.O. Box 194 e Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Erik 634-31 07 • Kelly 289-4063 

Monday, October 11, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Men's golf finishes 43 shots off the pace 
By ELAINE SIRMANS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team struggled at this weekend's Northern Intercollegiate golf tournament. finishing 21 out of a field of 24 teams with a score of 926. 43 shots off the lead. 
The Irish had a busy week. travel­ing to Ann Arbor for the Northern Intercollegiate. and on Monday and Tuesday to the MCC tournament in Indianapolis. 
The Irish again were led by fresh­man Brian Donohoe who shot a 227 in the three rounds, which tied him Chris O'Connell for 29 place. Junior captain Chris O'Connell shot a 234. as did junior Mike Chaney. 
Ohio State came away with the tournament title. shooting an 883. The Buckeyes were led by tourna­ment runner-up Didier DeVooght, who shot a 218. and fourth-place finisher Curt Sanders with a 219. Scott Rowe of North western was tournament medalist with a score of 216. 


The Irish will conclude the fall season October 15 and 16 as they travel to Columbus for the Ohio State Buckeye Classic. 

Nationally Renowned Trick-Shot Artist 


Phillies hold on to even up NL series 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA Somehow. the Philadelphia Phillies hung on. 
Somehow. Milt Thompson came up with the ball after crashing into the left-field wall. 
Somehow. Kim Batiste saved a throw that seemed destined for the left-field corner. 
Somehow. Danny Jackson was able to pitch out of trouble all but once. 
The Phillies played a most dan­gerous game Sunday night. and escaped with a 2-1 victory over the Atlanta Braves that evened the NL playoffs at two games apiece. 
It was a night when the Braves could have broken it open-and almost did in the eighth and ninth-but the Phillies refused to fold. 
After two-out singles by David Justice and Damon Berryhill in the eighth, Thompson crashed into the left-field wall for a leaping, back­handed catch of Mark Lemke's drive with two on and two out. 

"I took a couple of steps in. in case of a base hit. I could have got the guy at the plate," Thompson said. "Once you get you get to the warning track, you know you have two, 2 1-2 steps to the wall. Once you get there, you have to con­centrate on making the catch, knowing your going to hit the wall." 
It almost came apart again in the ninth. Bill Pecota, batting for reliever Mark Wohlers, singled to open the inning. Otis Nixon sacri­ficed on a hopper back to the mound but reliever Mitch Williams dropped the ball as Pecota took second, and the throw to first was too late to get Nixon. 
Jeff Blauser bunted back to the mound again and Williams got the runner at third this time on a force play. Williams nearly threw the ball away. but Batiste, a defensive replacement, stretched to catch the ball. 
Williams then got Ron Gant to hit into a double play. ending the 
game and the drama. 
Blue Jays 5, White Sox 3 

TORONTO 
Before each Blue Jays game, the giant video screen in center field flashes a commercial featuring pitcher Juan Guzman. 
"From the Dominican Republic to Toronto," it proclaims, "60 feet, 6 inches at a time." 
And maybe that's what it took-a man from far away-to finally end the freakish streak of road success in the AL playoffs. 
Guzman improved his postseason record to 5-0 as the Blue Jays defeated the Chicago White Sox 5-3 Sunday in Game 5 and became the first home team to win in the series. 
With flurries fluttering around SkyDome, Guzman used plenty of high heat to beat the White Sox. Back in his homeland, tempera­tures Sunday were in the 80s. 
"For a while there he just over­powered us," said Chicago manag­er Gene Lamont. "Guzman had awfully good stuff." 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
found herself to be much more emotional than she had antici­pated. "There are a lot of good memories on the field and I think that's the hardest part." 
"Those guys made a big dif­ference in this program," said Petrucelli. ''I'm happy that we can end it with them winning at home." 
Hartwig gave the Irish their first goal midway through the first half with McCarthy assist­ing, but the team was not play­ing up to its full potential. 
However, in the second half the Irish pulled everything to­gether and outshot the Purple Aces 21-1. 
Junior midfielder Tiffany Thompson expanded the lead to 2-0 early in the half when she nailed a penalty kick to the keeper's left. 
Fisher netted the third goal when she kicked home the de­flection of a Thompson corner­kick, which was first headed by sophomore forward Rosella Guerrero. 
A wide-open Masters wrapped up the game's scoring after receiving a perfect pass out front from Lester. who somehow managed to sneak the ball past an Evansville de­fender. 
Ihe lnsh outshot the Pifrple Aces 30-3. Freshman goal­keeper Jen Renola made two saves in net. 
"I think in the first half we were a little too emotional with the seniors playing in their last game," said Petrucelli. "Overall on the weekend we played well." 
"The competition wasn't all that good," said sophomore de­fender Ashley Scharf. ''but we proved that we're improving as a team." 
Everyone on the squad earned some playing time this weekend's games. The bench is starting to become factor in the success of the Irish. 
Fisher and Masters. who are typically the first two players off the bench, tallied four goals and an assist this weekend. 
"Those two guys deserve a lot of credit," said Petrucelli. "It's not easy to spend most of the game on the bench." 
"Our whole team is so sup­portive on the bench," said Masters. "Even though you're not on the field, you feel like you're on the field." 
The Irish will spend this week preparing for next weekend's matches with Duke and No. 1 North Carolina at the College Challenge dassic in Houston. 
It may be the most important weekend in the history of the program. 

Mini -Clinic & Masterclass  Trick Shot Exhibition  
Games Area in LaFortune  LaFortune Ballroom  
3:00P.M.  8:00P.M.  

FREE ADMISSION 
-~
9~ 
SfllJE"'-"fl'NIO!IiWJ-\RI 


TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1993 6:30 ·7:30PM MONTOGOMERY THEATER, LAFORTUNE 
Vice President Nathan Hatch, Dean of the Graduate School, assisted vy Professors Chris VandenBossche, English; Jeanne Day, psychology; and Kevin Christiano, sociology. 
r------------------------------------------------------------·~-------------------------------------­page 14 
Saint Mary's soccer forces tie with Trinity College 
By LAURA NOWICKI 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's soccer team bat­tled through inclement weather Saturday to force a 2-2 tie against Trinity College. 
The Belles started out to a quick lead 
,._. with fresh­man Lisa , Nichols scor­ing an unas-..,. 
sisted . goal Tom Van Meter one mmute into the first half. Nichols. assisted by junior Maura Sullivan, then added another goal with four minutes left before halftime. The Belles had to combat not only the poor weather. but also had to play without sophomore goalie Ann Kuehne. "We were without our goalie. 
Barkley 
recovers from 
collapse 
By WALTER BERRY 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
Charles Barkley, who col­lapsed during wind sprints when his legs went numb. re­ceived an encouraging medical report Sunday night after a battery of tests and may possi­bly return to training camp Monday. 
Phoenix SUns president Jerry Colangelo said the star for­ward, who collapsed Saturday night. sustained no nerve dam­age following a magnetic reso­nance imaging, CAT-scan and nerological exam. He won't need surgery and apparently will only have to reduce his workouts. 
"The results of today's tests are good news," Colangelo said Sunday night. " ... Charles is doing very well. He will un­dergo one more test (Monday) morning and if the results are as positive as today's. he could be back up here (Monday) night." 
Colangelo. in a statement from the team·s training camp at Northern Arizona University at Flagstaff. said the injury was to the L-5 vertebrae and proba­bly stemmed from thickening of the tendon that rubbed against a nerve. 
Barkley won the regular-sea­son MVP award last year. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

She received a red card during the game against Calvin College," lamented head coach Tom Van Meter. 
By receiving a red card dur­ing the game against Calvin, Kuehne was unable to finish the game, and could not play in the Trinity game. 
Coach VanMeter was less than exhuberant about the Belles play Saturday. 
"We played like the weather," said Van Meter. "We were very co0l and inconsistent." 
After coming off of a big win over Calvin College on Thursday. the Belles seemed to underestimate the Trinity team. 
"We had a mental letdown. We took them (Trinity) for granted. We knew that Calvin had beat them (Trinity) 4-0." said VanMeter. 
The Belles return to action Saturday at 3:00 p.m. to battle Saint Joseph's College. 



~nihrrsiftr of ~otrr Jflamr 
,]footbnll Ol)ffice 
Jfiou :Moltz 
ltrnll ,.Jiootbnll <llond] 
October 11, 1993 
Greetings: 

I wanted to take this opportunity to inform you that our university is kicking-off the National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week. This week has been set to generate interest, discussions, programs, and reflection upon the role that alcohol plays in our lives. The theme for the week, "Make the Choice to Make a Change," ties in nicely with a phrase I really like: "What's Important Now." I truly believe what's important now is to straighten out our philosophy of life, and if needed, make the choice to make a change. 
I not only challenge you to become involved in the week's events, but truly think about your philosophy of life, because anytime you look at your philosophy of life, it forces you to think about what you really believe in and what you value and cherish. It can also serve as a game plan for where you want to go and how you are going to get there. 
Remember, God loves you, and you are special. Unfortunately, for some people their god is money, drugs, alcohol, or power. One thing is for certain --there will be one thing that will dominate your life. I strongly suggest it be something for which you can be proud. I have never known anyone who stood up and said, "The reason I'm successful is alcohol." But I have seen and read of thousands who said, "My life is a mess because of alcohol." 
Again, "Make the Choice to Make a Change." 
Sincerely, 


]jot!re Atltletir anb <llonbocation <!Ienter •1Post (J!}ffice lilox 518, Notn flame, .Jlnbiana 465 56 


Monday, October 11, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
BILL WATTERSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 



~··················~ 
. SUB: .

1rlhnuum. Oct 14 • •
j:razy stuff and more!: 
11 tatm=Spm • 
• LatiF((}llfhnne ••• •• • 
FREE! • • 

.. 
ust like last year's Fun Flicks:\. ••~~~~~-~~~~~.; eep a video of the experience. 

Friday, Oct 15 
8:JOpm-1 :30am, Ballroom featuring ... 
CSWINGINS' 
RAWDAD Blues Band 
SPELUNKER 

1'\0Wf\O~'IS, 1>-05 DONT J\JST SEll.. 1\ PRCOUCT. 1\-\t.'{ AN 1\TIITUOE! 
LOOK ~~ T\-\\5 O~E! 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
1-\t.RES A COOL GU'I Sf\'1\~G MCl\30\)'( TELL'S \-\1M Wlit--T TO [X). f-IE DOt:.s WI-\1\TE\/t.R liE WP-.1'\TS (>..~\) l-IE 13\.l'fS T\4\S PROWCT 1\5 f... RtrLECT\01'\ 
Ort: Tl-lf\T 1~\)I:.?Et--IOENCE. 
I 


JAY HOSLER 
.. 
Stl \lfo.SIC"'lL'I, 1\-\15 Wo-'lt.RICK I'S \.lRE.\NG E'JE.R'ION£ TC> 
EY.I>R~ \\1':> \\ll\)1'1\0\JI\LIT'i 
"ffiR.<).x;\4 COf'.l\"=CRMI"N \~ 
BRf\ND-I'·Vo.ME. SELECTICN?
J-..r--..::;;;;;;--------1 



DAVE KELLETT 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

42 Whence oinks 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
27 Lace ends come 
55 Michie--. 
noted dancer 57 Police activities &1 Alack's partner &3 A Chaplin 
two-reeler && Regard &7 Ceremonial act &8 "--man with 
" &9Nancy-, young sleuth 10 Seattle -of racing fame 71 It's the pits 
DOWN 
1 Locale for wrestlers 2 Famed office 3 Babka, e.g. 4 City on the 
Dnepr 5 More cunning & Had lunch 

7 Squeezed a Water conduit 9 Fashions 28Mimic 44 Fencer's thrust 59 Legal documen1 
10 Bikini part 29Tear 47Willows 60-I, father of 11 Words of 30 Make less 50 Fragment Ramses II caution difficult 51 Bear lead-in &2 Stitch 12 Cosmetician 31 Run of luck 53 Famed quarter 64 Coniferous tree Lauder 37 Volcano in 5& Wag source? &5H.M.S. 13 Bridges Sicily 58 La Douce occupant18 Wines and 391mpulse dines 40 Lion's pride? 24 Encourage a 41 Aquatic 
Get answers to any three clues
felon mammals 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Derides & Stuttgart sighs 10 Some involve spelling 14 Serve the 
purpose 15Jog 1&Abrade 11 Relax 19 Nick and Nora's 
pet 20 Crowbar or pry 21 Diner man of TV 22 Urge for 
money? 23 Gather in 25 Dodges 28 Sandy's 
comments 
32 Honest-­33 Lily of Utah 34 Irish fuel 35 Kennedy or 
Koppel 36 Sheltered at sea 38 Cover with a 
hard coating 40 Bothers 43 Shea section 44 Squeal 45 Light color 4& Italian or 
Spanish lake 48 Savings-bk. 
entry 49 Remain 50 Laces a drink 52 Strip 54 In great 
demand 


.. 
Irish crush Pitt 
Panthers Pitt-iful in 44-0 whitewashing 

SPORTS 
Seniors end home season with 4-0 rout of Evansville 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Assisram Spor!S Ediwr 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team took a strong hold of first place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference this weekend after it defeated league rivals Xavier and Evansville by, the scores of 5-0 and 4-0, respectively. 
The wins 
lifted the record of the sixth -ranked Irish to 13-1. The Irish have 
1 ( 
won 1 8 of its Alison Lester last 1 9 match­es, are now 4-0 in the MCC. and have outscored its confer­ence opponents 25-0. 
The Irish have won t 3 con­secutive games at home as well as ten straight games against their MCC foes. 
In Friday night's victory over second place Xavier. the Irish outshot the Lady Musketeers 29-3 and held them without a shot in the second half. 
Sophomore midfielder Michelle McCarthy scored the earliest goal in team history when she gave Notre Dame a 1 -0 advantage only 15 seconds into the game. The previous best was 21 seconds and was set in 1989. Freshman mid­fielder Cindy Daws assisted on the play. 
Tri-captain Alison Lester fol­lowed McCarthy by netting her eighth goal of the season off a 
Holtz: McDougal's starting job 
Observer Staff Report 

crossing pass. Junior mid­fielder Jodi Hartwig and sopho­more midfielder Ragen Coyne assisted on the goal. The three points Lester acquired this weekend brought her within two points of Susie Zilvitis' leading all-time scoring mark of 1 12 points. 
The Irish ended the first half with a 2-0 lead. 
With just under three min­utes into the second half. Daws inflated the Irish lead on a goal that was actually knocked in by a Xavier defender. 
Freshmen Stacia Masters and Kate Fisher then came off the bench to score the final two goals of the evening for the Irish. Sophomore defender Julie Vogel had two assists on the evening. while Fisher and McCarthy had one apiece. 
"I didn't expect to win that easily or to win by that mar­gin." said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "We've played Xavier tough every year, so they're a good team." 
The Irish followed their Fri­day night demolition of the Musketeers by rolling past the Purple Aces of Evansville after playing a lackluster first half. 
The team was overanxious and emotional in the opening stanza because it was the final home game of the season and thus the last home game ever for the senior members of the team. 
"It was different than what I expected," said senior tri-cap­tain Stephanie Porter, who 
see SOCCER I page 13 

is wide open 
"I think Kevin McDougal has done 
a lot of good things. and we don't want to diminish that," Holtz said. "But we cannot tolerate turnovers going down this line. I don't care what the situation is. you just can't have them." 
That means Paul Failla, who has played sparingly this season behind McDougal. could be the starter this weekend when the Irish face Brigham Young. It also could mean the starting job will be waiting when freshman Ron Powlus returns from a broken collarbone. 
Holtz said that in his mind. the quarterback position is wide open. 
Powlus could start throwing this week and could be available later this month. Powlus had beaten out both McDougal and Failla with excellent performances during three preseason scrimmages before the injury. 
Holtz has also said that he will not redshirt Powlus for his freshman season, so he will see action. 
"Once he is healthy. and I can't control that. how quickly he makes a contribution is dependent on how well we're protecting the football at that position," Holtz said. 
Inside SPORTS 
Men's soccer Bert Bader shuts out two opponents as the Irish post two 1-0 /



( ·~ 
wins. 

)
see page 12 

I 
l 
Men's golf Mike Chaney and the Irish travel to the Northern Intercollegiate Tournamant but fin­sih 21st out of 24 teams . see page 13 
r' 
~ 
•
I f 
I 
... 
.. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Coach Lou Holtz said yesterday that senior quarter­back Kevin McDougal's job is in jeopardy after three turnovers on Saturday. 
Notre Dame quarterback Kevin McDougal has been awesome at times this season and awful at oth­ers. Lou Holtz may have had enough of the inconsistency. 
After his second three-turnover game in three weeks. and an ill­advised remark following Notre Dame's 44-0 win over Pitt, McDougal's job is in jeopardy. 
McDougal. a senior who sat behind Rick Mirer for three seasons. said after Saturday's game that he has trouble concentrating when the Fighting Irish (6-0} are heavy favorites. 
"Anybody that says tttey have trouble focusing on an opponent needs to find another school or another sport," Holtz snapped Sunday. "It's as simple as that. There's no excuse for not focusing." 
McDougal threw two interceptions and fumbled once in the first half as the Irish stumbled to a 13-0 half­time lead against the overmatched Panthers. McDougal also had two interceptions and a fumble at Purdue, and he has seven of Notre Dame's nine turnovers this season. 




