The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 135 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Students face tuition increase 
By ALICIA REALE Associate News Editor 
Undergraduate tuition and fees at Notre Dame will in­crease $1,160 to $15,810 for the 1993-94 academic year, ac­cording to Thomas Mason, vice­president of business affairs. 
The overall increase for a residential undergraduate stu­dent will total 7.5 percent, down from last year's eight percent increase in line with a University plan. "We have come down from percentage increases of the past," said Ma­son. 
"We had hoped, however, to come down further than called for in the plan," he said, "but could not because of a $1.8 mil­lion mandated charge to fund post-retirement health care benefits for faculty and staff." 
Another major factor affect­ing the tuition hike is the inter­est rate on investments which has fallen sharply in the last few years, according to Mason. 
"If we had not had these two major issues there would have only been a 5.6 percent in­crease," he said. A salary hike, travel and supply expenses, health insurance and academic enhancements which the provost solves academic prob­lems with all are principal items amounting to this 5.6 percent increase. 
In a letter to parents of 1993­94 undergraduate students, University President Father Edward Malloy said, "When our trustees consider the budget proposal they perform a balancing act. On the one side is the impact of tuition in­creases on parents and stu­dents; on the other is the qual­ity of education at the Univer­sity that makes it worth the cost." 
However, Notre Dame's tu­ition is still near the bottom when compared to peer institu­tions such as Yale University, Harvard University, Georgetown University, College of the Holy Cross and Boston College. 
Future tuition hikes are un­predictable due to the uncer­tainty of interest rates and what the federal government will do regarding health insurance, according to Mason. 
In addition, University plans for future tuition hikes are "pending the Colloquy for the Year 2000 plans. Future priori-
see TUITION I page 6 

Saint Mary's SURV refocusing center's mission of service 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
"Saint Mary's promotes a life of intellectual vigor, aesthetic appreciation, religious sensibil­ity and social responsibil­ity... the curriculum nurtures awareness and compassion for a troubled world and challenges students to promote human 
dignity  throughout  their  
lives... n  
These  words,  taken from  

Saint Mary's College mission statement, set forth the sense of service and social responsibility the College aims to instill in its students. 
Since last year's creation of the Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer Center (S.U.R.V.), the student-run center has evaluated its mission and worked to make service and volunteering more accessible to students' wide interest in vol­unteering on campus, according to junior Jennifer Lackey, 
S.U.H.V. director. This year, Lackey and her six 
commissioners have focused on Senior Julie Marsh and 1992 Graduate Jennifer Torlina {left to right) participate in last year's Christmas in see SURV 1page April. The annual event is just one of many volunteer activities that Spes Unica Volunteer and Resource
6 

Center {S.U.R.V.) helps to coordinate for Saint Mary's students. 

Faculty Senate passes motion to delay Colloquy 
By JOHN LUCAS Assistant News Editor 
The Faculty Senate passed a motion Tuesday asking the Board of Trustees to delay of the implementation of the final report of the Colloquy for the Year 2000 because of serious flaws that need to be addressed before the draft is released. 
The senate supported its motion with the results of a faculty survey which showed overwhelmingly that faculty members want issues in the report from the Committee on Academic life to be discussed. 
Senate members were most concerned with the wording of the first recom­mendation of the report of the Committee on Academic Life, which addresses the need to hire more Catholic faculty. 
"All who participate in 
hiring faculty must be cog­nizant of and responsive to the need for dedicated and committed Catholics to pre­dominate in number among the faculty," the report states. 
The statement is vague, because it doesn't clearly define whether the word predominate means "the majority" or "a dominant number," of new faculty he· ing hired should be Catholic, according to Richard Sheehan, chairman of the senate. 
In addition to only hiring Catholics, the inclusion of the phrase "dedicated and committed Catholics;~ could force new faculty to conform to University policy ou questions on such as abortion and capital punishment, he said. "There's a virtual 'laundry 
list' ofissues that can detme /) you as a committed 
'· .: Hi! ·+<see FACULty/ p~g_e 4 
MOST EXPENSIVE UNIVERSITIES 
111992-93 D 1991-92 
Rank School 

INew York University !Yale University IHarvard University !Swarthmore College !Tufts University !Johns Ho~kins Univ. IPrinceton University !Williams College IColb~ College 
!Notre Dame I 

Campus Ministry delays plan for gay support group 
By DAVID KINNEY Editor-in-Chief 
Campus Ministry is delaying a plan to offer a pastoral support group for gays and lesbians on campus, according to Father Richard Warner, director. 
The proposed group has been in the planning stages since February and was expected to be unveiled this month. Warner would not give reasons for the delay, and would not set a new timetable for the establishment of the group or discuss what steps are ahead. 
The proposal is part of an ef­fort to make Campus Ministry a place where more students feel welcome, according to Warner. In an advertisement in today's Observer, he said the office must address the areas of male­female relationships, abortion and homosexuality. 
"We have not yet found effec­tive ways of going beyond being simply a welcoming pastoral place for homosexual un­dergraduate students," he wrote. "It is critical that we be­come a compassionate people and a place where discussion and acceptance are expected and received." 
The pastoral support group would attempt to frame the homosexual orientation within Christian values, teaching and background, according to Fa­ther Tom McDermott, director of special projects for Campus Ministry. 
McDermott cautioned that the group would not be adversarial or activist, and is not an at­tempt to undermine the Uni­versity's stance on homosexu­ality or position against recog­nizing a campus gay and les­bian group. 
"It's meant to be a ministerial outreach," he said, "a helping of people who live with tensions in life." 
Campus Ministry consulted a 
see GROUP/ page 8 Tuition Rank 
I I I I I I I 
•II 

Hesburgh marks 50th year as priest 
Special to The Observer 

A man who has held 15 Presidential appointments but has always said his most honored title was simply "priest" will observe the 50th anniversary of his ordination next month. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, will mark a half century of ministry with a Mass in Sacred Heart Basilica at 5:15 p.m. May 6. The mass, which is open to the public, will be followed by a private dinner at which Hesburgh will be honored by the University's Board of Trustees. 
Now 75 years of age, Res­burgh entered the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross in 1934 and was ordained nine years later in Sacred Heart. He returned to campus in 1945 as an instruc­tor in religion, was appointed executive vice president in 1949 and assumed the presi­dency of the University in 1952. 
His tenure, which stretched to 1987, was the lengthiest of any Notre Dame president, and he was in office longer than any of his contemporaries heading major American institutions of higher learning. His 15 Presidential appointments began with membership on the National Science Board in 1954, and he is currently serv­ing as a member of the board of directors of the United States Institute of Peace. 
"I am first and foremost a priest," he has said on more than one occasion. "Everything else is secondary." 
In a career that bridged reli­gious and secular cultures, he also served four popes in vari­ous capacities, including repre­sentative of the Holy See to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna from 1957 to 1970. He is perhaps remem· bered most for his 15 years (1957-72) as a member if the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights when landmark legislation in education, housing and employment dealt a crippling blow to racial discrimination. 
As an educator, he was 
see HESBURGH I page 8 

~ 
•l 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



I'm trapped in a body that's graduating 
~
:::?is it that every time you go to let  f'~"~  ~  ,;:"f  
someone in the car when you're already in the car,  ·­.·.  " · . ··, r/.  
they  pull  up  on  the  
handle  at  the  same  ~......  
time? This I cannot  .,..  - 

answer, and if I could, By. St~ve Duene.s 
perhaps then I would Edttonal Cartoomst know the answers to some of the more puzzling questions about this place. 
For instance, could someone please tell me why they heat that Alumni Room in LaFortune to the sweat lodge status of 150 degrees? Or why no one takes the trays at the dining halls that are wet and warm? 
Or who puts all that garbage out in front of the Riley Art Building on a semi-annual basis? Or why so many former football players seem to be employed at the Linebacker? Or why The Observer is easy to criticize? 
These, as well as many other questions have clouded my pysche for quite some time now, and it seems that no one will ever be able to satisfy my curiosity. Someone should have pointed out just how asinine these questions were in the first place. 
Then I would have known, and my recent awakening wouldn't have been so painful. Hecently, I have become aware that the minute hassles and irritants, and, of course, irritating people are the brambles that caught my pant legs for most of my Notre Dame existence. 
A philosophy professor recently directed my attention to Pascal's dictum that we run headlong towards the abyss, but we can't see it because we erect obstacles in our own path. The abyss in this case is my impending graduation. 
Since I am one of about three members of the class of 1993 that actually won't enter law school, I no longer have the security of an academic existence. The abyss that the real world presents makes many of the recent inconveniences seem even more microscopic. 
Still, the questions arise anew? 
For example, why doesn't Saint Mary's have any study days this week, so they can go out on Wednesday and Thursday with the rest of us? Why doesn't the school inoculate all the squirrels around here for bubonic plague? 
Why was it such a hassle packing up all the stuff in the dorm rooms so early, and then living in that uncarpeted hospital room for two weeks? 
Soon all these questions will cease. Soon all the senior complainers will be gone, and in a few months they'll be back to smell the ethanol and take grass clippings back home because they actually miss this place. 
I'm convinced that reincarnation is a hoax, but let's pretend for a moment that we all believe in the idea. Woody Allen once said he'd like to be reincarnated as Warren Beatty's fingertips. Actually, I'd rather come back as one of the cameras that films "CLUB MTV." 
If that's not possible, I certainly wouldn't mind being zapped into the body of a freshman on the way to orientation at Notre Dame, but then I'd probably be worried about the weather or something like that. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessisarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff Elizabeth Heard News 
Lisa Monaco Frank Rivera 
Sports

Mike O'Hara Jason Kelly 
Production Lab Tech 
Kevin Hardman T.J. HarrisMeghan Kelley 
Graphics Brendan Regan Accent 
Kenya Johnson 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 28. 
50s 50s 
FRONTS: • • WARM • • © 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc.
COLD STATIONARY Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW 
FORECAST Mostly cloudy and mild with a chance of showers. Highs 65 to 
70. Cooler at night with lows around 50. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  55  39  
Atlanta  75  46  
Bogota  66  45  
Cairo  73  55  
Chicago  7t  52  
Cleveland  69  43  
Dallas  78  60  
Detroit  69  47  
Indianapolis  72  47  
Jerusalem  63  46  
London  66  46  
Los Angeles  76  58  
Madrid  64  43  
Minneapolis  65  46  
Moscow  70  48  
Nashville  77  44  
New Vorl<  71  44  
Paris  70  46  
Philadalphia  70  38  
Rome  72  52  
Seattle  60  44  
South Bend  63  35  
Tokyo  77  59  
Washington D.C.  73  39  



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Officer's snake pose earns reprimand 
• SYDNEY, Australia -A policeman was reprimanded Tuesday for posing as the centerfold of a women's magazine swathed only by a 10-foot snake. Jeff Jarratt, New South Wales state assistant police commissioner, said the officer failed to get permission from his superiors before the photographs were published last October in Australian Women's Forum magazine. The 28-year-old officer used a false name and described himself as a dancer in an article that accompanied the photos. 
NATION 

McCartney, others planned for Hall 
• CLEVELAND -The director of the proposed Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum is leaving, but backers said Tuesday he added credibility to the often-criticized project by arranging $84 million in financing. Mike Benz, who became executive director 14 months ago when the project's financing was in doubt, said he would remain on the job until a successor was found. The hall, 

first projected to cost $26 million, will be housed in a 150,000-square foot building designed by I.M. Pei and targeted for completion in 1995. Its collection has more than 8,000 items including material from Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, Elvis Presley, the Who and the Beatles. 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Seniors who are doing service work next year should sign-up for the Volunteer Send-off, on May 15. · Please sign up at the Center for Social Concerns by April 29. 

• 
An all-campus ice cream sundae social will be held from 4 to 6 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. The social is sponsored by the Graduate Student Union Women's Resource Committee. 


• An International Student Organization Picnic will be held Wednesday on Holy Cross Hill at 4:30 p.m. 
• Just a Sister Away (JASA) will have their final general assembly of the year from 9 to 10:30 p.m. in the 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAv•s TRADING April 27 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 281,108,100 +2.02 to 241.93 S&P COMPOSITE +4.4 7 to 438.01 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +17.56 to 3,415.93

UNCHANGED 594 


GOLD 
+$0.50 to $340.00/oz 
SILVER +$.010 to $3.917/oz 
CAMPUS 
Saint Mary's library extends hours 

• NOTRE DAME -The Cushwa-Leighton Library will extend its hours beginning Saturday to accommodate students during final exam week, according to Sister Bernice Hollenhorst, director of the library. The library will be open the following hours during the week: Saturday and Sunday, 9 a.m. to 2 a.m.; Monday to Wednesday, 8 a.m. to 2 a.m.; Thursday, regular library hours; Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The circulation desk, the reserve book desk and the media center will be closed after midnight. The library hours during Senior Week will be from 8 a.m. to 4:30p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Two freshmen receive scholarships 

• NOTRE DAME -Student government announced this years recipients of the Hipp-Beeler Freshman Memorial Scholarship. They are Freshmen Louis Vricella and David Brower. Brower and Vricella were selected from a pool o nominees selected by their freshmen writing instructors. The scholarship is awarded each spring semester to two freshmen who demonstrate financial need. 
Book Fair to allow for book resale 

• NOTRE DAME -This year students will have a new option when attempting to re-sell their used books at the end of the school year. Student government will hold its first Book Fair drop-off from May 5-8. Books should be brought to the Cavanaugh Room in LaFortune Student Center from 2-8 p.m. on May 5-6, from 12-5 p.m. on May 7, and from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. on May 8. Books will be stored and then resold next fall at Stepan. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge. As sisters talking with sisters, the theme for the evening will be "Community -The Heal­ity of Our Togetherness." For further information, contact Rochelle Stewart at 634-4408. 
• 
A last visit for seniors to Sacred Heart and the Grotto will be held Thursday at 9 p.m. A service will start at the Basilica and be followed by a candlelight procession to the Grotto. Music will be provided by the Notre Dame Folk Choir and the Notre Dame Glee Club. 

• 
A "Mass of Celebration and Success" in honor of African American senior sisters will be held Friday at 8 


p.m. in Lyons Hall Chapel. Father Steve Johnson from Ohio State University will be the guest celebrant. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1941: The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that blacks traveling on railroad cars were entitled to the same level of quality and service given white passengers. 

• 
In 1945: Italian dictator Benito Mussolini and his mistress, both of whom had tried to flee advancing Allied forces, were captured and executed by Italian partisans. 

• 
In 1967: Heavyweight boxing champion Muhammad Ali refused to be inducted into the Army. 

• 
In 1981: Secretary of State Cyrus Vance resigned following a failed attempt to rescue U.S. hostages in Iran. 

• 
In 1987: The United States barred Austrian President Kurt 


Walkheim from entering the country. 

..~--------~------~---­
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Betson: 35 to 37 million Americans lack health care 
By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 
Because a national health care plan involves a wide range of professional and economic issues, finding a program that pleases doctors, patients, in­surance companies and the government is proving a diffi­cult task for Hillary Rodham Clinton's Task Force on Na­tional Health Care Reform. 
Americans want both acces­sible and affordable health care, said David Betson, associ­ate professor of economics and director of the Hesburgh Pro­gram in Public Service. Cur­rently, 35 to 37 million people, mostly children with parents who hold low wage jobs, have no health insurance. Twice as many people probably lack "adequate" health care, he added. 
The Clinton Administration is considering a variety of health insurance plans which would require the government, em­ployers or a combination of both to provide coverage to all Americans. 

But not all favor programs like these, especially doctors. "We need to fix what we have, we don't need to throw the whole thing out," said Dr. Alfred Cox of South Bend, a member of the executive committee of the board of trustees of the Indiana State Medical Association and a delegate to the American Medical Association. Rather than adopt an entirely new system, he favors imple­menting a sales tax to finance health insurance and stripping Medicare and Medicaid of wasteful practices. 
When seeking care, patients want the freedom to choose their own doctors, said Cox. "Under a national health plan, that may be available only in a very specialized way," he con­tinued. 
Any national health plan will 
Happy 20th 

Birthday Erin Montgomery! 
Always showing your good horse sense with only 36S days lelt ol illegal drinking. 

Drop off your books at: 
the Cavanaugh Room in Lafortune 
Wedn&~day, May 5 from 2-8 Thurdday, May 6 from 2-8 Friday, May 7from 12-5 Saturda~ May 8 from 9-noon 



Books will be sold next fall. All profits go directly back to the seller. 
------------~-­
-

increase business costs and therefore may affect hiring practices. Discrimination against employees with a high risk for AIDS or another dis­ease, or against women, whose average health care costs rise until about the age of 45, could result from businesses trying to reduce their insurance premi­ums, said Betson. 
"There's legal barriers against it but that's not to say people don't do it," he added. 
One version of a national health plan, like that used by Canada, appoints the govern­ment the single payer of health insurance, which is financed through payroll taxes and taxes on employers. Recent polls show 58 percent of the popula­tion favor the single payer plan, said Betson. 
However, this large govern­ment role would eliminate the need for private insurance companies, which is probably why it is not under serious consideration, said Betson. 
Another option requires em­ployers to provide their em­ployees with minimum cover­age, who would purchase fur­ther insurance themselves if they desired it. Because this plan fails to cover the unem­ployed, public means like Medi­caid would be required to pro­vide comprehensive coverage. 
The "play or pay" option, which Betson thinks the Ad­ministration will probably choose, gives employers the choice to provide their employ­ees with medical insurance or to pay a tax which will offset the cost of government provided insurance. 
The cost of a national health 
see HEALTH I page 8 


--
~-----~----------­
page 4 The Observer Wednesday , April 28, 1993 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
Catholic." 
Hiring on the basis of those questions could constitute an infringement of academic freedom, according to senate members. 
The request for a delay is insignificant, and should have little effect on the Collo­quy process, according to University President Father Edward Malloy. The motion "doesn't really do anything different," he said. "There is no vote before the Board, but merely a presentation of the Colloquy." 
Members of the senate at­tended the final meeting of the Colloquy Committee of the Whole and presented their findings to Malloy and other committee members. The attempt to delay the re­lease of the report was seen as an attempt to obstruct the process, according to Shee­han. 
Problems won't shorten shuttle miSSIOn 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Columbia's seven astronauts temporarily were barred from using the shuttle urinal Tuesday because of an apparent problem with the waste water tank. 
Mission Control's Sam Gemar told the crew that engineers were not seeing any volume in­crease in the tank after use. 
"The concern is that we're over-pressurizing the waste water tank," Gemar said. 
Gemar said the astronauts ­all men -could use the shuttle toilet for fecal, but not urine, collection until a backup system was in place. It took about an hour for pilot Terence "Tom" Henricks to attach to the line one of two large, rubber-lined storage bags that can be emp­tied into space. 
Mission Control spokeswoman Kari Fluegel said the problem would not cut short the nine­day German science mission, which began Monday. It wasn't immediately clear whether the problem would affect the collection of urine samples for scientific analysis. 
Ground controllers earlier de­tected a small nitrogen leak in the cabin, but it was unclear if it was related. 
NASA has had frequent prob­lems with its shuttle bathroom systems. In 1990, a clogged 
see SHUTTLE I page 8 

UNIVERSITY 
R~SUM~ 
SERVICE 

•RESUMES •TECHNicAl 
•CREATiVE WRiTiNq 2 7 7" 1 700 

locATEd off-cAMpus by UP MAll 
iN UNiVERSiTy GARdENS 

FACULTY POLL ON COLLOQUY 2000 •Agree D Neutral ~Disagree 



2a. The sentence "The 2b. That sentence should 2c. The proposed Mission 3a. The second sentence of 3b. This sentence should be 4. The final report of the
1. The President should 

Catholic identity of the be replaced by astatement Statement (loc. cit.) as a Recommendation 1 of the replaced by the Faculty Colloquy should incorpor­
circulate to the faculty a 

University depends upon to the following effect: ''The whole is unsatisfactory. report of the Committee on Senate's proposed modifi­ate the faculty Senate's
draft version of his report 


the continuing presence of preservation of the Catholic substantial period of time 
on the Colloquy 2000. A 

a predominant number of character of the University should be then allotted for 
Catholic intellectuals," depends upon the contin­teflection on and discussion 
which appears in the pro­uing pre-sence of afaculty of this draft prior to afinal 
posed Mission Statement whose members collective­report being communicated 
(cf. Notre Dame REPORT, ly show respect for that to the Board of Trustees. 
vol. 22, March 19, 1993, p. character and are willing to 
29) is unsatisfactory. enter into the conversation that gives it life." 
Academic Life of the Collo­cation which reads "All who other proposed modifica­quy 2000 (which reads "All participate in hiring faculty tions of the report of the who participate in hiring must be cognizant of and Committee on Academic faculty must be cognizant responsive to the need to Life (as circulated by mail of and respon-sive to the recruit afaculty that and reported in the April 1 need for dedi-cated and achieves the highest level of edition of The Observer). committed Catholics to excellence and that includes predominate in number aproportion of Catholics among the faculty") is sufficient to foster the Cath­unsatisfactory. olic intellectual tradition." 
issue," he said. 
To halt the Colloquy pro­cess now would "confuse the nature of the document," Malloy said. "We have been faithful to the process and its time schedule. There will plenty of opportunities to discuss parts of the Colloquy 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 
in the future." 

The senate the distributed a seven question survey to the faculty, asking for faculty opinion on the six sections the senate found objection­able. Of the more than 500 surveys mailed, 386 faculty 
responded. 
Malloy "views this as an attempt by a small minority of the faculty to derail the Colloquy process," Sheehan added. "I was singularly un­sucessful in my attempt to change his mind." 
Questions about the con­tent of the· Colloquy need to be addressed before the document is released, be­cause once the document is released, people will not re­member the debates or ob­jections, but only the docu­ment itself, Sheehan said. 
"If this wasn't significant, we wouldn't be pushing the 
SAVIE BIG $$$ !! In cmtioo to oor BIG fcdory rebaes, ~of oor Cdk:lge Grad.Jates ard Yarg fuye!S piO'Jrams tret wil remte vru up to $400. PJglt rrm yru can but atony $100 CNer dealer invace! Cal me t<XBy! 



PROJECT PASSAGON
1 

HELP! 
Pi Sigma Alpha is collecting unused PENS, PENCILS, AND PAPER to send to a school in Benin, West Africa 
Boxes in DORMS, 314 O'SHAUGHNESSY and DEClO APRIL 26 • MAY 7 
Supported by the National Chapter of PI SIGMA ALPHA 
JUST A REMINDER... MARkETiNq Club 
ENd,of,THE,YEAR PARTY 
4:70 p.M. SENiOR BAR 




enta nits 
•1 
I 4 Mile from Library 

•Brand 
New Appliances 

•2 
Bedrooms 

•2 
Bathrooms 


ow Ava1 able 
•Washer 
& Dryer Units 

•Large 
Closets 

•Covered 
Parking 

•Security 
System 



•Large Balconies CALL Now FOR APPOINTMENTS 

272-0691 
Going Gui1ckly $660°0 er month 
FORD 
TOYOTA 
VOLVO 

MITSUBISHI LINCOLN-MERCUR 

-~-------~ ~~---~ 
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 The Observer page 5 

SAC generates ideas for tentative revision senior 'comps' 

Proofs from Senior Formal are on display at the Information Desk in Lafortune and at Haggar Lounge until Wednesday, 
pril 281b. All Candids ordered from these and any packages ordered at the dance may be picked up from 12-5 p.m. on Monday, May 3m at the same locations. 
SENIOR FORMAL PICTURES 
..,()U'r-e A Sure Winner 
When .,()U Live At t-lick.()rY Viilaue 
Save S24-·()!
Hurry ln. For s limited time on s one-year lease. 
Efficiencies from only $250 1-Bedrooms from only $265 2-Bedrooms from only $325 
• 
Beautifully LandKaped • 24-hour Emergency Grounds Maintenance Service 

• 
Pool &Clubhouse • Planned Activities 

• 
Laundry Facilities • Free Aerobics 

• 
Balcony or Patio • Close To Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 



What are you waiting !or? Call or stop by today and we11 show you why you can't lose at Hickory Village. 
272-1880 

~ 

+llCKORij
C 
l!j 

DlLLAC]Ef$
~ 
--f----'"'t-llcKINlEV 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, 
JEFFERSON 

Sat. 1 o-4 & Sun. 12-4 

ments for each major from their first year. There will not be the mystery of comps that exists now. They will have written expectations from each de­partment as well as hints from graduated seniors on the best ways to prepare for comps and the stress that comes with them, according to O'Donnell. 
"The busy work of research is already finished," said O'Donnell. "However, since this is still an issue in development it is not known if the anticipated changes will effect next year's curriculum. We also do not know if the required hours for graduation will be effected." 
"It also helps that the SAC has the support of both students and alumnae," O'Donnell continued. "They help to gen­erate ideas on how to organize and how to carry these changes out without offending the faculty." 
Saint Mary's seniors, most having completed or almost fin­ished their senior comp projects and tests, reacted favorably to the proposed changes. 
"Student teaching helped me to use everything that I had learned in class for the past four years in a practical situa­tion," said Suzanne Sanders, a Le Mans Hall senior and educa­tion major. "I implemented all the methods that I learned in class in my lesson plans." 
"Although student teaching is much different from the comp requirements of other majors it is still very challenging and time consuming. We must cre­ate lesson plans for each day, make projects and attend meetings, as well as being evaluated by Saint Mary's edu­cation professors, and the hosting teacher and principal." 
She continued, "I had such a positive experience that I would suggest that every major have some sort of an internship as part of a comp. It is extremely valuable because being active in the work force makes you grow up very quickly. You discover that people refuse to pamper you." 
Senior history major Bridget McCourt suggests that depart­ments implement small work­shops to prepare students for the comp exams and maybe a practice test be given to get a feel for the questions that will appear on the comp exams. 
Kelly Derrick, a senior com­munication major who did her senior comp on the images pro­jected in the Democratic and Republican national conven­tions in the past election, favors the comp requirements of the communication department more than a comp consisting of a single exam. 
"I do not think that one test can cover enough information to account for four years of classes. Research projects al­low students to show what you have learned and to apply it. That application may not be found in an exam.n 
Jerome McElroy, chairman of the Business and Economics department, disagrees that a senior comprehensive exam is not as valuable as a compre­hensive test. 
The five hour exam given to business majors requires stu­dents to apply everything that they have learned, according to McElroy. They are given a case study of a business, Pier One Imports, for example, and they must use all of their skills in ar­eas such as finance, manage­ment and marketing to analyze the current business. 
"A comp such as this is fair in relation to the comps of other majors because we distribute the comp case prior the exam," he said. "Because the students must research the materials before the exam in addition to the regular preparation, the work does stretch over a semester like the other comps." 
Featuring Jimi V (Hammerheads) Billy Burke (Mere Mortals) Jeff Crane (Velcro Pygmies) Screamin John Hawkins Max Maxwell Thursd 27th 


By LAURA FERGUSON News Writer 
During the January campaign for Saint Mary's student body president and vice president, president-elect Mary Beth Wilkinson and vice president of Academic Affairs and College Relations Lynn O'Donnell, mentioned revising or equaliz­ing the senior comprehensive requirement (comps) in their election platform. Now they are acting on their campaign promises. 
In a meeting last week, the Student Academic Council (SAC), generated ideas on how to reach the goals for the tenta­tive revision of senior comps presented by Wilkinson and O'Donnell. 
Their goal is not so much to make senior comps uniform throughout the departments, but to make it fairer in relation to the effort and time outside of the classroom required by the students to complete them, ac­cording to O'Donnell. 
Happy 2 1st Birthday Julie 
May 101 1993 
Love, Mom Bt Dad 

SENIORSI 
Currently, senior comps vary from department to depart­ment. For example, the com­munications department re­quires a 20 page or more re­search or rhetoric paper and an oral presentation given to peers and a faculty panel. 
Nursing and business majors must take long, detailed exams, covering most everything they have learned in four years of college, while the history de­partment requires both an exam and a research paper. The education department re­quires a full semester of student teaching in place of a written project or exam for the senior comp. 
"SAC agrees that there is no way to avoid the differences in requirements among the de­partments. However, our main goal is to have the departments with more relaxed require­ments stiffen up to keep with the standards of the other de­partments," O'Donnell said. "But understandably, the fac­ulty does not like to be told what to do so major changes may be difficult." 
Another objective for senior comps is to provide a manual to give to underclassmen so that they will know the require­
page 6 
SURV 
continued from page 1 
changing the overall structure of the center's mission and re­organizing the office to ac­commodate problems such as lack of official transportation for trips to volunteer centers, she said. 
"This year we've just been getting the office established," she said. "It took a long time getting things like the file cabi­net and practical necessities for the office," she said. "But a lot of energy went into just clarify­ing what S.U.H.V. is." 
Sharon Zint, Class of '92, started S.U.R.V. last year in order to make the service mentioned in the college's mis­sion statement an integral part of campus life. Her goal was a resource center where students could find information on service opportunities in the South Bend community. 
However, Lackey said the problem lies not in the need for available opportunities and vol­unteers, but in convenience and 
Tuition 
continued from page 1 
ties are contained in these re­ports which will be presented to the board of trustees next week," he said. "The recom­mendations will be discussed and subsequently imple­mented. Until these priorities are set we are reluctant to put together another five-year plan." 
OBSERVE THE WARNING SIGNS. 

It you have chest pai11astivJ two 
minutes or more. see adoctor. A American Heart 
"'Association 
.ED O'NEILL: *** 
CONGRATULATIONS on your 
21SI BIRTHDAY 
on May 3, 19931 
+++ 

We have appreciated your long and faithful patronage. $$$ THE MANAGEMENT 
Bridget's C.J.'s Coach's Commons Corby's Bo and Melinda's 
---------~------~---~-~---------~-----------­
The Observer 

transportation for students who would like to volunteer, and thus decided to change the center's overall mission. 
S.U.R.V. held an open house earlier this semester, and over thirty students showed up at the small office. Because Saint Mary's students have such an overwhelming interest in volun­teering, but often lack trans­portation or time to offer their services, Lackey said she real­ized that she needed to update S.U.R.V.'s purpose. 
"When Sharon created it, (S:U.R.V.) she wanted are­source center," Lackey said. "The initial problem I had (for the volunteers) was lack of transportation. We re-estab­lished the focus away from a referral center. We came to the point where we defined what 
S.U.R.V. had to do to be con­ducive to students' needs." 
As a result, two goals Lackey developed for this semester were to organize weekly group visits to the Center for the Homeless, and monthly group visits to Hope Rescue Mission and Saint Margaret's House, a women's shelter in South Bend. 
Today, while still a resource center, S.U.R.V. focuses pri­marily on such practical ways of facilitating service, such as providing organized group trips and college cars for groups of students volunteering. 
"(The Center) was no longer conducive to students' needs," Lackey said. "Now we can pro­vide transportation to events." 
In addition to the practical 

emphasis, Lackey has tried to change the structure of the center by re-organizing the commissions. Last year the commissions were focused on campus groups and conceTns, but this year Lackey changed the aims of the commissjons to concentrate on specific social concerns, such as children's is­sues, environmental issues, women's issues and~··homeless­ness, and the elderly. 
Each commissioner has a group of students organized by their area of interest and participates in trips to different centers in the South Bend com­munity. 
S.U.R.V. has made much progress in developing ideas for programs, although it needs more dedication from the students who are involved, said junior Kathy Klimisch, women's issues and homelessness coordinator. 
"It's a good way for people to get involved," she said. "But we need more students to help us do that." 
Although S.U.R.V.'s emphasis has concentrated on redefining itself and its mission of making service and volunteering more accessible to students, it has not developed any specific new programs or policies this year. 
But this redefinition is an essential part of any growing organization or resource center, and must come before any expansion can take place, ac­cording to Georgeanna Rosen­bush, director of Student Activi­ties. 

h1
s MY biRT~dAy COME ANd ~EAR ME ROAR! 

HAppy BiRT~dAy KoRy! 
THE BusHGETTERS 

Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
Any institution or college takes time to adjust to new ideas and establishments on campus, Rosenbush said. 
"We've gotten just about as far as we're going to get in one year," she said of S.U.R.V. "If we're going to build, we need a foundation." 
Another of Lackey's goals for this year was to work toward establishing a program in which students would earn academic credit in return for S.U.R.V. ­initiated volunteer work, but before the center can expand to a full-time facility that can work with students to provide credit, it needs to establish regular, dependable office hours, in addition to targeting full-time staff to serve as advisers, Rosenbush said. 
Because S.U.R.V. is still in its growing stages, this will happen only as it grows and gains acceptance and campus awareness, she added. 

"You need staff support to add stability to the agency," she said. "They (students) think that if credit is offered, more students will want to volunteer, but you have to have somebody here for that carryover." 
"We need patience and commitment from more than student workers," she added. 
For example, Rosenbush said that when she first began ad­vising Student Government at Saint Mary's, it took nearly three years to convince students that an official Student Activities Board was needed. She said that S.U.H.V., as a new organization, could take several years to implement academic credit or a full-time staff into its structure. 
"This has been the first year of deciding how to run (the of­fice)," she said. "You're not going to reach the ultimate goal in one year. My goal for S.U.H.V. is not to rush into anything." 
Both Hosenbush and Klimisch said that S.U.H.V. needs a few more years of operation to realize some of its goals. 
"If we just keep going," Klimisch said. "If one year we have one (volunteer) trip, the next year we'll have two trips, the next year we'll have three." 
PHILLY CLUB LUGGAGE TRUCK 

LOADING: FRIDAY. tvl!\Y 7 I 00 PM TO 5:00 PM AT STEPAN 
COURTS 
ALL OTHER INFO AVAIL. AT LOADING SITE OR CALL JOE 81\RONE AT 634-1760 
CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
Call PennySaver Editor Marcia Steffens (219) 282-4457 2102 South Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46613 
-

Plan Now for Your Graduation Party ... or Any Party for That Matter! 
£\m,~:,].~!,MWPIE: Blacst Gode~"'~~1Q!!g
cater it with a fresh sliced 6' BLIMPIE the bread especially for you so
ay Ill a row 
Blast sub sandwich which feeds 40-50 please place your order at least people. We'll Make it your way with ali 24 hours in advance . 
r--------------------------------------------------, 
~----------------------------------6fuet--------------------------------~~ 

$5.00 off a 3' or 6' 
BLIMPIE® Blast 
Please Place your order 24 hours in advance. 
Please present this coupon before ordering. Not valid if altered or duplicated. One order per coupon. One coupon per customer per visit. Customer must pay sales tax due. Not good in combination with any other offer. Cash Value 1/101} of 1¢. Offer good at Ironwood Plaza North, S.R. 23 and Ironwood. 
L--------------------------------------------------~ 


~--~-~--------~-~~·-~--~-­
r---------~~-------,~~ 
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 The Observer page 7 
Kernan discusses business and government in local community 
By JOHN CONNORTON 
News Writer 
A meeting of some of the leading authorities on the Sea Scrolls concluded at the University of 
otre Dame. 
The three day conference was by the presentation of a facsimile edition ofthe Sea Scrolls. said James 
r Kam, professor of controlled accessto. · h.,,,J,..,,.., at Notre Dame and co• forcing biblical s the meetings along with come to lsraelto 1'-"U·I'i''"'" Ulrich, also a professor scrolls. . 
tneototlV at Notre Dame. Both and Ulrich have extensively on. the 
E.J. Brill. a Dutch publishing company, transcribed some ,400 photographs of the scrolls 
related texts to microfiche the first time, according to 
*********************************** Congratulations 
Heidi Weber! You're Poised For Success! 
Love, Your Family ************************************ 
By JOHN LUCAS Assistant News Editor 
The long relationship be­tween small business and local government has been influen­tial in shaping the city of South Bend and surrounding com­munities, according to Joe Kernan, mayor of South Bend. 
"Business and entrepreneur­ship has caused the community to change in it's size and in it's makeup," said Kernan, a 1968 Notre Dame graduate who has served as mayor of South Bend since 1988. 
Detailing the history of busi­ness and entrepreneurship in the South Bend area, Kernan traced the relationship back to the roots of St. Joseph County, to a time before Father Sorin began building the University. 
While the start of small busi­nesses consisted of several single entrepreneurs in the 1850s, the backbone of manu­facturing in the area was made up by the Singer Sewing Ma­chine Company, and the Studebaker Corporation, which in the late 1800s built wagons, and later made the transition to automobiles. 
When those companies faced difficulty making the transition to a post-war economy in the early 1960s, South Bend and surrounding communities were hurt, Kernan said. 
"Many companies had a diffi­cult time grappling with the changes from a wartime to a post-war economy... as we made the transition, there were significant problems we faced," he said. 
The Studebaker Corporation, forced to lay off 8,000 local workers, was hardest hit by the change of economic climate, Kernan said. 

During the recession of the 1960s, manufacturing in the South Bend area was partially saved by the development of the Airport Industrial Park, which marked the first time that area and local government made an special effort to attract business and manufacturing, he said. 
The Park, and incentives by the city and the federal gov­ernment, drew many smaller companies to the area, and re­vitalized the community, ac­cording to Kernan. Currently, the airport park employs over 5,000 people who are employed 


in several companies that work During World War II, manu­in light manufacturing and light facturing and business in South industry.
~~~ ~~w~~ 
Bend consisted of several large "Today, we're much more companies which made up 56 dependant on smaller compa­percent of the area's economy. nies ... it makes the community
Call The Observer! 
much stronger, and less sus­ceptible to trends in the econ­

r 
··~ 
omy," he said. "While one 
company is down, others are usually up." 

7 Day Delb.r~ry l 
Roses Flowers 
A new project called Airport Balloons Plants 
2010 will try to imitate the suc­cess of the original project,

Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Kernan said. 

Clocktower Square ( 219) 2 7 7 ... 1291Ot~~~£, 
One facet of the Airport 2010 51400 31 North ta, v-~ 
plan is the development of the Blackthorne Golf Course, which
South Bend, IN 46637 ~ ~~~ 
is not only an amenity for resi­Not good for Valentine's Day 
MeP.tion This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ 
dents, but an attraction for small businesses. The plan is indicative of 



page 8 
The Observer Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
Health 
continued from page 3 
care plan to the government could reach over $100 billion, said Betson. A variety of taxes have been proposed to finance it, including sin taxes on to­bacco and alcohol and a one percent tax on doctors and hospitals. Because neither of these taxes will cover the entire cost, a value added tax (VAT), which works like a sales tax, is also under consideration. 
Betson thinks the American public will accept these taxes "if they see value for what they're paying." 
However, a national health care plan is probably not something to look forward to in the near future. "You're going to see the biggest fight in Congress you've ever seen over this," warned Betson. Even if it is passed by December, it will probably take three to five years to see the effects, he added. 
"This is not something you'll see immediately," he said. "It is designed for long-term relief in the cost spiral." 
Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
chairman of the International Federation of Catholic Univer­sities from 1963 to 1970, a pe­riod in which the role of Catholic universities in modern education was redefined. 
An elder statesman in higher American higher education, he has received 125 honorary de­grees, a number noted in the Guiness Book of World Hecords. At Notre Dame he brought about a changeover to lay governance in 1967, the admittance of women under­graduates in 1972 and the steady improvement of bac­calaureate and advance educa­tion, as well as research, at the University. 
Hesburgh also will be among nine priests celebrating jubilees at a Holy Cross community mass May 21 at 4 
p.m. in Sacred Heart Basilica. 

at Edison Lakes 

ROCKS IN 
MAY 

April 30 and May l 
P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend 
May 5 & 6 Zibb Teboe May 7&8 
The Bitter Ends May 13 Four and Twenty Elders May 14 & 15 
P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend May 20 "Cheers" party!! Watch the final 
episode of"Cheers"! Band to follow! May 21 & 22 
Chosen Few May 28 & 29 Oliver Syndrome 
DON'T FORGET!! Live Bands each Wednesday & Thursday in May. 211 E. Day Road 
Shuttle 
continued from page 4 

waste water line in Columbia prevented waste water from being dumped overboard. The crew prevented an early return by draining fluid into one of the big rubber bags and 15 urine collection bags. 
Earlier Tuesday, the astro­nauts hutTed and puffed around the world in a lung-monitoring experiment. 
Effects 
continued from page 3 
as a group with doctors and hospitals. For doctors, "it will be a lot easier to negotiate if you're in a group," he said. 
Searching for cost effective health care, a national plan will emphasize the services of fam­ily practitioners rather than specialists, said Betson. 
Although the current trend in medicine has emphasized spe­cialization, the number of gen­eral practices is already on the rise. This year, the number of graduates of the Indiana Uni­versity School of Medicine 

Payload commander, Jerry Ross and German astronaut Ulrich Walter took turns breathing hard into a long pipe connected to medical equip­ment. At times. they sat still for the test. Other times, they ped­dled a bicycle ergometer. 
Researchers want to better understand how human lungs function in weightlessness. The astronauts also are measuring their blood pressure in orbit and conducting other health checks. 
planning to enter family medicine doubled from past years, said Dr. Thomas Troeger, director of the South Bend Center for Medical Education on campus. 
The I.U. medical school and many others are trying to in­crease the number of graduates in general practice because more family doctors are needed, especially in rural ar­eas and cities, he added. "Although family care doctors work harder for less." they are making efforts to make family practice more appealing. 
Still, "one has to be pretty dedicated to do more work for less reward," said Troeger. 
"We're really getting this laboratory cranked up now," Ross said. 
During his Spacelab shift. German astronaut Hans Schlegel put some of Columbia's 
Group 
continued from page 1 
variety of people on campus throughout the semester, in­cluding University Counseling Center staff and theology pro­fessors, McDermott said. 
"It's definitely a need," said Erik Floan, co-president of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame, an unrecognized group. The proposed group, which he tiny mushrooms into a gravity­creating centrifuge. The rest were left exposed to weightlessness so the two groups can be compared after the nine-day flight 

described as one step beyond the counseling center, would help some in the homosexual community at Notre Dame. 
But he said the delay is part of "the bizarre goings-on in Campus Ministry." While Warner detailed the need to reach out to homosexuals in October, "here we are at the end of another academic year and nothing has been done," Floan said. 
Meredith McCullough con­tributed to this report. 

APPRECIATION DAY! 
at 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
10% Off * 
Your Purchases On Most Items. 
Wednesday, April 28th Only! 
Register To Win Free Gifts! See Store For Detaills 
Notre Dame Students Please Present Your Student I.D. At The Time Of Purchase. 
*not applicable to: 
textbooks, film, film processing, health and beauty aids and class rings 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus " Open monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
STUDENT 
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
-----------------------~ 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
Mary's News Editor 
, accor erquist, cnau:/A.ss<>etatE~ "''' professor of'nursing. 
National Nurse Week is M~y 6-12. This week is set aside to ommemorate the accom~ plishments of nurses and nutS;­
ing. ·wi 
May 12 is the birthday of Flo­rence Nightingale. She is con:.. sidered by many to be the founder of modern nursing and in England, Nightingale's 
of birth, many events 


are held around that time. 
Those events recognize nurses 
who have served in the military 
since modern nursing devel­
the Crimean War, 

According to Widerquist, on 6, the department of ours­Saint Mary's will host an house from 2 to 4 p.m. at Hall Room 1 honoring 
The Observer page 9 
Rebel Serbs fight on despite sanctions. 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Rebel Serbs thumbed their noses Tuesday at· new sanctions meant to break their resolve, pounding one Bosnian Muslim enclave with gunfire and challenging U.N. peacekeepers in another. 
U.N. officials said the Bihac region in northwestern Bosnia was under Serb artillery attack and an infantry company backed by 10 tanks had moved into the area from a Serb-held sector of Croatia to the west. 
The offensive, and the defi­ance of U.N. authority in Sre­brenica, another Muslim en­clave, were the latest signs of Serb refusal to bend to tougher sanctions against Serb-domi­nated Yugoslavia that went into effect Thesday. 
The new, tightened sanctions are aimed at forcing Belgrade to pressure Bosnia's Serbs to sign a U.S. peace plan. Bosnian Serbs rejected the plan anew on Monday. 
The West and Islamic powers are weary of trying to halt a war that has left 134,000 peo­ple dead or missing, only to be rebuffed at the bargaining table by recalcitrant Bosnian Serb leaders. 
Western pressure against the Serbs heated up Tuesday when Russian President Boris Yeltsin issued a warning to Serbs and pledged unity with the West, defying his domestic critics who oppose strict measures against Serb brethren. 
Past Russian support of the Serbs has added to Western re­luctance to turn the sanction screws too harshly. 
"The time has come for deci­sive measures to stifle the con­flict," Yeltsin said in Moscow. 
The Russian Foreign Ministry said, however, that Russia still opposes military intervention. President Clinton said last week he was considering air strikes against Bosnia's Serbs. 
In other developments re­garding the possible use of force: · 
• U.S. Secretary of State War­ren Christopher said rigorous standards must be met -in­cluding a sure way out -be­fore any decision to use U.S. military might in the former Yugoslavia. 
At the Pentagon, Adm. David Jeremiah, vice-chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, spoke of difficulties of using force to end the conflict, in particular lim­ited air strikes. 
• Gen. Ratko Mladic, com­mander of Bosnian Serb forces, said on TV that he was certain no foreign military intervention would take place despite rejec­tion of the U.N. peace plan, but that they should stand pre­pared. 
• Lord Owen, the European Community's negotiator on Bosnia, said in London that U.S. troops should join U.N. relief efforts instead of leaving Europeans to take the risks. He said U.S. air raids alone would be unacceptable. 
The Bihac fighting appeared more a show of defiance than the beginning of another land grab. 
"The force (of 100-150 troops backed by tanks) ... is certainly not one that would be expected to take the Bihac pocket," said Gen. Lars Eric Wahlgren, commander of U.N. peace­keepers in Yugoslavia and its former republics. 
The Bosnian Serb army later issued a statement dissociating itself from "provocative attacks" by "an unorganized group of people." 
Wahlgren told reporters in Belgrade he ordered French peacekeepers in the Bihac area to prevent atrocities and to an­swer force with force. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
PEER MINISTRY AT NOTRE DAME 
The men and women who comprise the staff of campus ministry and I have a 
lot to be grateful for as the academic year comes to a close. We are thankful to God for the opportunity we have to work in pastoral ministry with the people who form part of the Notre Dame community. It is a privilege for us to be ministers of the Gospel for you and with you -rectors, members of the faculty and staff, and especially Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
Every community of believers is an amazing and unique grace. Each is a reflection of the promise of Jesus to be present wherever two or three people come together in his name. Each is a tangible expression of the promise ofJesus to remain with his people until human history, and each of us, achieves fullness. 
At a recent staff meeting, we talked about the students who are so essential to what campus ministry is all about at Notre Dame. 
It is legendary how quickly Notre Dame people come together and help one another when there is a threat or a crisis. Our 150 year history has seen this phenomenon repeat itself time and again under just about every imaginable situation. 
In campus ministry, we know and experience how this happens many times on a daily basis. We call it peer ministry. What it boils down to is the fact that young women and men become channels through which other young men and women can come closer to each other and to their God. 
Peer ministry has long been the basis of the success of the Notre Dame Encounter retreat. Over the course of the past six years, hundreds of Notre Dame students have listened to their fellow students talk about faith, Jesus Christ, the obstacles to God's action in their lives and the many ways God shows us his friendship through people and through circumstances. Each year, fully fifteen percent of the Notre Dame undergraduates apply to make an NDE retreat! Every week, seventy or more people who have made the Encounter and who have found it to be an extraordinary religious experience, gather in the Fourth Day program. Other types of participant-centered retreats are offered for dozens of groups which request this assistance from us, including residence halls and groups of graduate students and faculty. 
This year, and every year, dozens of students join the R.C.l.A. program which helps them to prepare for baptism, for full communion with the Catholic Church or for confirmation, and dozens more meet every Sunday of the year as they serve their fellow students as sponsors. 
Throughout the campus, hundreds of students serve as Eucharistic ministers, lectors, ushers, greeters and acolytes at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and in the residence halls, or as liturgical or social service commissioners. Hundreds more help make our liturgies unforgettable experiences for thousands of visitors as well as for the 'regulars' through the six choirs sponsored by campus ministry. 
Over one hundred couples are prepared for marriage by a dedicated staff as well as by dozens of faculty couples who work with young men and women on a two-on-two basis. Over two hundred students participate in weekends of reflection where they examine where relationships might go in the face of imminent separation after years of dating and friendship. 
Two hundred students participate in Bible discussion groups that are Catholic, Protestant and inter-denominational in nature. The grace of one participant's insight is shared with two dozen other students. 
And this year, the 'Communities NO' program has brought together almost two hundred students who participate with enthusiasm every three weeks in a base Christian community-styled discussion group. 
Peer ministry is alive and well at Notre Dame, because Notre Dame students are serious about the religious and spiritual dimension of their lives and find Notre Dame a place where many of their peers feel exactly the same way. 
These are wonderful developments, and we are grateful. But, obviously, there are areas our ministry has not touched adequately. 
We have yet to develop programs that will promote the development of better relationships on campus between young women and men. We have to find ways of discussing fully the question of abortion in the larger context of a 'seamless garment' approach to all life issues that does not concern itself solely with life from conception to birth nor with life from birth to death. 
We have not yet found effective ways of going beyond being simply a welcoming pastoral place for homosexual undergraduate students. It is critical that we become a compassionate people and a place where discussion and acceptance are expected and received. 
We are enormously grateful to students who have ministered to us while they were engaged in peer ministry. We are grateful to our colleagues at the Center for Social Concerns who have helped us and whom we have helped to bring about in the lives of those we serve an integration of faith and action. Without addressing these constitutive social justice imperatives, we would have to leave our gifts at the door of the chapel until reconciliation with ourselves, with our world and with those who share the planet with us has been achieved. We are grateful to those rectors who have infected us with their contagious enthusiasm for our common ministry efforts, and with their commitment, which matches ours, to Notre Dame students. 
We thank God and we thank each of you for what this year has been for us. We can't wait for August! 
Richard V. Warner, C. S.C. 
·-----------~---~~----------------~-~-~-~--------~----­
The Observer 

page 10 Wednesday, April 28, 1993 




Arthur Andersen Welcotnes the Follow-ing 1993 University of Notre Datne and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firtn 
William A. Allen 
Chicago 

Jennifer L. Blanchet 
Chicago 

Maureen E. Brown 
New York 

JosephS. Burke 
Chicago 

James A. Burkhart Jr. 
Cleveland 

David D. Cathcart 
Atlmzta 

William L. Dietz 
Min11capolis 

Patricia A. Fosmoe 
Chicago 

Thomas E. Hitselberger 
Baltimore 

Scott D. Kamenick 
Chicago 

Maureen P. Kenny 
Chicago 

Susan M. Kurowski 
Chicago 

William D. LaFever 
Chicago 

R. Geoffrey Levy 
Atlanta 

Michael P. MacKinnon 
Boston 

Michael R. Malody Jr. 
Los Angeles 

Erin M. McCauley 
Washi11gton, D.C. 
Kelly A. McDonough 
Cleveland 

Arthur R. Monaghan 
Minneapolis 

Melissa L. Mong 
Houston 

R. Patrick Murray II Indimzapolis 
Kerry L. Norton 
Chicago 

Angela C. Pearson 
Chicago 

Kathleen M. Phares 
Chicago 

Richard M. Riley 
Chicago 

Eric A. Rojas 
Boston 

Kevin A. Rule 
Chicago 

Mark A. Schmidt 
Atlanta 

Robert M. Silveri 
Stamford 

Edward A. Smith 
Long Island 

Jeffery G. Stark 
Milwaukee 

Tricia J. Tilford 
Phoenix 

Julie A. Vaccarella 
Chicago 

Lynn I. Vandermeulen Chicago . Scott J. Vickman 
Minneapolis 

Kevin C. Weinman 
Charlotte 

Michael E. Wendowski 
Indianapolis 

Tina M. Wojciechowski 
Chicago 






Wednesday, April 28, 1993 The Observer page 11 
Davis: Black Catholics play integral part in Chu-rch's history 
By KATE CRISHAM News Writer 
The beginning of Catholicism in the United States was also the beginning of the history of black Catholicism in the United States, according to Father Cyprian Davis, author of The History of Black Catholics in the United States. 
"My purpose in writing this book was to give black Catholics the realization that they do have an integral part in our Church's history," he said. 
Davis, a professor of church history at St. Meinrad School of Theology and a Benedictine monk of St. Meinrad Archabbey, is the author of numerous articles and books on Church history. 
In the lecture, "The History of Black Catholics in the United States," he spoke of his desire to "signal to the world and to the academic community that there is a black history of Catholicism." 
"In no way is this book a definitive study," he warned. "This book is just the begin­ning." 
Davis spoke of his travels to the Vatican archives in Rome and the Archives of St. Augus­tine in Florida to fmd informa­tion on the influence that African-Americans had on the early Church. At St. Augustine, early marriage, birth and bap­tismal records showed that blacks had been active mem­bers of the early Church in America. 
Davis noted that his book dealt with the effect that the is­sue of slavery had had on the Catholic Church. 
"Catholics like to softpedal the issue of slavery and assume that only Protestants held slaves," he said. "But the reality is that bishops and priests, especially Jesuit priests, both held and sold slaves." 
"Slavery was the greatest moral crisis our country faced before the Civil War, but Catholics refused to address it as a moral issue," he said. "Protestants admitted that it was a moral issue. They either denounced or defended slavery with Bible in hand. But Catholics preferred to view slavery as a political issue." 
Davis' other goal in writing his book was to look at the unique contributions of black Catholics in America, he said. 
"The story of black Catholics in America is the story of lay Catholics," he said. "It is the story of strong individuals who rose to the occasion." 
One of these individuals was Daniel Rudd, who was con­vinced that the Catholic Church was the last, best hope for black Americans. He felt that the Church would educate and elevate blacks. He believed that once the Church did this, it would end the color line and lead to a mass conversion to the Catholic Church. 
Rudd organized a Black Catholic Congress to synthesize the concerns and needs of black Americans. This Congress enhanced "thB love and pride they felt in being Catholic." 
Stories of African saints such as St. Augustine and St. Monica gave blacks the opportunity to talk about their history, just like the Irish, Poles, and Yugoslavs. Because they were not depen­dent on the papacy in Rome, said Davis, this allowed them to "take their destiny into their own hands." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Office of Campus Ministry. 

Alumni Association confers awards for service on students 
By NANCY DUNN 
awards for service on two stu­News Writer dents this Friday. Edwin Hartwell will receive the Distin­
The Notre Dame Alumni As­
guished Undergraduate Student 
sociation will be conferring 
Award and Mary Yu will receive 

Why take your winter 
clothes home for theswnmer? 
Just pick up a storage box at Ziker Cleaners and fill it with your winter clothes. Then return the box to Zikers and your clothes will be cleaned and stored on hangers in our moth-proof vault all summer and ready for you when you return in the Fall. 
• 
Low cost storage • No payment until Fall 

• 
Protection from • More closet s~ce for moths/fire/theft your summer things 


Two Locations Near Campus! 

207 us 31 (across from Bob Evans) 272-8093 
Ironwood at South Bend Ave. (next to Martin's) Greenwood Shopping Center 
272-9461 

the Distinguished Graduate Student Award. 
Hartwell, a senior marketing major and captain of the base­ball team, said he was just honored to be nominated and even more surprised to win this special recognition. "I have never thought of myself as anything but a regular stu­dent," said Hartwell. 
He was recognized for his volunteer work at various youth clinics and the Logan Center. During his breaks, Hartwell has spent time talking to inner city children about what he has done and the opportunities available to them. He is also a member of the Carroll Hall ju­diciary committee. 
After graduation this May, 
FOR DETAILS ... BRING THIS TICKET TO FUNTAN. INC., STATE RD. 23 

UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 
Hartwell has plans to work at a camp for troubled adolescent boys while he waits to see what happens in the baseball draft. 
Yu, a third year law student and assistant rector of Siegfried Hall, said the award held great meaning for her expressed be­cause it was the women of Siegfried who nominated her. Yu is a White Scholar in the Law School, a program that fo­cuses on how law affects public policy, and a member of the Journal of Ethics and Public Policy. She was recognized for her work with Sexual Offense Services and Urban Plunge service programs. 
Yu said service to her com­munity has always been a part of her life. "I cannot imagine not being involved, it seems so natural," said Yu. Upon grad­uation, Yu will return to Seattle and work as a deputy prosecut­ing attorney in the criminal di­vision. 
According to Francis Shavers of the Alumni Association, candidates for either award can be nominated by any member of the Notre Dame community. The candidates are then judged on the basis of their service to Notre Dame, their service to the community, and their academic standing. 


Do you have the summer time 
sel!ool blues?? Ccme live at 

Jlsmi.ngton (}ou1·t durin~' su.m.mer scilool, and relax in luxury between ;Jlasses. We have junior one bem~ovms that y,;vill give the privacy ofyour own home. Come lay by our pool and study, or just to relax. We have models open daily-come out and take a look! 
Located on M.ain Street between McKinley and Edison 

'-------------~-~--~-------­
page 20 The Observer Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
One of 19 justices held hostage in Costa Rica released 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica (AP) ­Gunmen who stormed the Supreme Court and seized 19 magistrates freed one Tuesday, but another hostage told a re­porter that the assailants had wired their captives with explo­sives. 
Costa Rican and Colombian officials speculated that the kidnappers who stormed the building Monday bnlong to Colombia's M!ldellin cocaine cartel and are seeking release of four cartel members arrested in September. 
President Hafael Angel Calderon, meanwhile, an­nounced he had set up an in­terim Supreme Court so the country's justice system could continue operating. 
"The situation is difficult, but our top priority is to safeguard the physical integrity of the hostages," Calderon said. 
The four gunmen, who called themselves "The Commando of Death," seized 19 of the 22 jus­tices and five assistants. Offi­cials say they are demanding $20 million and safe conduct to a South American country. 
But late Tuesday night, Public Safety Minister Luis Fishman said the gunmen reduced the ransom to $8 million. 
"This indicates we are in a process of negotiation. Let's hope we can improve on it," he told reporters. 
Shortly before noon, a magis­trate identified as Jesus Ramirez walked out of the main entrance as dozens of heavily armed police with assault rifles stood by. He was helped into a police vehicle and taken to a hospital. 
A police official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Ramirez was suffering from heart problems. There was no immediate report on his condi­tion. 
Greivin Moya, a journalist with Channel 7 television, spoke for 15 minutes with Chief Justice Edgar Cervantes on the negotiators' open line. 
He said Cervantes sounded shaken when he reported that some hostages had been wired with explosives. Cervantes also said explosives were placed in the building. 
Cervantes said the situation was "extremely critical," and that the gunmen would allow no other hostages to go free until their demands were met, even if some fell ill, Moya reported. 

The gunmen and hostages apparently remained Tuesday on the second floor of the four­story building. 
Authorities have granted the kidnappers' requests that tele­phone, power and water not be cut off, and gave them a radio and a television set. 
Four Colombians were ar­rested in September during a worldwide crackdown on co­caine traffickers. More than 100 suspects were arrested in Italy, the United States, Britain, Canada and Costa Rica, and about 1,100 pounds of cocaine was seized. 
Pressed about a possible Medellin connection to the gunmen, Foreign Minister Bernd Niehaus said late Mon-
incubus 
the campus cd is on sale at the Iafortune information desk Cost: $8 
get yours now! 
sponsored by SUB 
day: "It's obvious they are for­eigners." He refused to elabo­rate. 
Rolando Lacle, spokesman for Calderon, said Tuesday that he didn't know the identities of the gunmen. He said their chief called himself "Charlie." 
Local newspapers quoted anonymous Costa Rican officials as saying that the gunmen were Colombian members of the Medellin cartel. 
President Guillermo Endara of Panama, Costa Rica's southern neighbor, said "everything indicates this is an act of terror­ism linked to the drug traffic." 
In Bogota, Colombian officials said Tuesday they believed Colombian traffickers were in­volved in the crisis. 
The hostage standoff is the third in nine months to rock this normally peaceful nation. 

Unlike its Central and South American neighbors, Costa Rica, which has a Civil Guard but no standing army, had long been free of rebel or political violence. 
On March 8, a group of oppo­nents to Nicaraguan President Violeta Chamorro invaded that country's embassy in San Jose and held 24 people hostage. The siege ended two weeks later after the Nicaraguan gov­ernment paid $250,000 to the gunmen, who freed the hostages unharmed and fled. 
In September, Security Minis­ter Luis Fishman was kid­napped by a Honduran who claimed he was being perse­cuted. The kidnapper de­manded, and got, a flight to Mexico, where he somehow eluded authorities and van­ished. 
COLLEEN 
Only 1 more month til 
The Big 21~ 

Love, Mom, Dad & Brigid, Kevin & Sean, Jack & Russell 

MATTESON, IL. MERRILLVILLE, IN. MISHAWAKA, IN. Matteson Plaza Merrillville Plaza Indian Ridge Center 
4159 Lincoln Hwy. 1630 E. 80th Ave. 5816 Graspe Road (708)7 48-7262 (219)726-1855 (219)271-2830 
FA so 
--~--~~------._,.__ 
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 page 13 



Reader wonders about No·s 'Longest Hatred' 
Dear Editor: 
Yesterday I read the first in­stallment in your series about the university's refusal to rec­ognize a gay and lesbian stu­dent group on campus. Last night on the McNeil/Lehrer News Hour I watched a tour of the Holocaust museum opening today in Washington; the mu­seum includes exhibits on Hitler's extermination of homo­sexuals. 
Later on PBS I watched "The Longest Hatred," a documen­tary which exposed the role of 
DOONESBURY 
Christianity in the persecution of the Jews through centuries and today. Next, on C-Span was a press conference held by leaders of the gay and lesbian civil rights march on Washing­ton being held Sunday. It oc­cured to me that the Christian hatred of Jews may not be "the longest hatred" after all. Maybe I just watch too much 
TV. 
C. Joseph Williams 
OUC Consultant April 26, 1993 

Pro-lifers a 'dedicated, peaceful' group 
Dear Editor: 
Some time ago, David Koresh, member of a fringe religious group, apparently declared he was Christ; obviously, it is becoming increasingly popular for Christians to proclaim their divinity. 
If this statement bothers you, you read it correctly. A similarly flawed statement appeared twice on the front page of the Observer (April 26). It is illogical and unfair to say that the pro-life movement is becoming increasingly violent based on the immoral action of one man who fatally shot Dr. David Gunn, a Florida abortionist, but was loosely associated with a local anti­abortion group. 
The leaders of all major pro­life groups condemned this murder and expressed their sorrow. Some leaders, like Randall Terry, also expressed grief for the thousands of children killed by Dr. Gunn but did not condone or justify his murder. I, too, grieve both for the babies and for the abortionist, for I firmly believe that deliberately taking the life of another human being is always wrong. This is why I call myself "pro-life" and not "anti-abortion." 
As a veteran of 10 rescues and dozens of marches, demonstrations and prayer gatherings, I have never seen a pro-lifer commit an act that was in any way physically violent. Operation Rescue, for instance, explicitly forbids any type of verbal or physical violence and, in my experience, requires all rescuers to sign a pledge of non-violence. 
While I have seen pro-lifers scratched, bruised and doused with a high-pressure fire hose by counter-demonstrators and heard the cries of rescuers receiving "pain-compliance" treatment from police; I have never seen a pro-lifer retaliate, nor heard of such incidents. 
I encourage anyone interested in seeing what the pro-life movement is like to come and observe a picket, a rescue or a prayer gathering: ND and SMC students are at South Bend's abortuary on Tuesday mornings. It is unfair to attribute the actions of one fanatic to the many thousands of dedicated, peaceful people who are the pro-life movement. 
Claire E. Johnson ND/SMC Right-to-Life April 27, 1993 


FI!<ST OFF, 7HIS IS ~WY'S aE1<. 7HIG 1'3 WHeRE I C!Jirt& UPWITH AU-MY1/?tAS. AS YOU CAN G/3&1 I'M §lJ!<Rf){}N//&0 BY 
7H& 7001/3 OF MY 
/ 

P&NCIJ.-5, P&NS, RU/..&f<.&;­
YOU NAM/3-IT. /iV~YTHING I Nt&l? FOR. SKCTCJ/IN6 aJTMY10t:A'3 RJ6H7 H/3RE OV TH/'3 PflOFfiSSIONN.­tAYWT[;5I(! I 
"Those who aim at great deeds must also suffer greatly." 
Marcus Crassus 
Aim for greatness. 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 

~~--~~------------------~--------~------~--~~--~..~~----~----------------------~---.--~----~----.-~------------------------­
Viewpoint

page 14 Wednesday, April 28,1993 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alumni freshman discovers his Notre Dame family 
Dear Editor: 
My name is Kurt Weiss. I live in Alumni llall, and I have done a lot of looking forward and looking backward. It seems as if a lifetime of experiences has passed since I arrived under the Dome last fall. 
Things were somewhat dif­ferent for me from the start. You see, I'm a survivor of juve­nile bone cancer and my right leg was far from perfect in Au­gust. Still, it would have taken much more than a bad knee to keep me from enjoying my first semester to the hilt. 
When you've wanted some­thing for as long as I did, you don't let little problems restrain your life. I was among the in­sane Alumni Dawg freshmen who serenaded the girls' dorms at midnight that Wednesday of our first week together. Vivid memories stem from that night. My friend, Chad, dropped behind the crowd and helped me move along so I could participate in the initiation. I'll not soon forget his help, or singing the Alma Mater at the Dome with the other Oawgs. 
I was likewise involved in the Band of the Fightin' Irish. I couldn't march, but I helped out as a secretary and manager. I went to practices, pep rallies, pre-and post-rallies, too. I even attended the sacred saxophone ritual of a candle-lit ceremony at Hockne's grave before the Michigan game. 
Like every band member, I donned my uniform Saturday morning, played the concert at the Administration Building, 
Dear Editor: 
This weekend our nation wit­nessed the 1993 March on Washington for Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Equal Hights and Liberation. March organizers and District of Columbia police state that over a million partici­pants gathered in the capital city to put a face on the socalled "gay rights" movement. 
Those of us who marched, however, know that we seek only equal protection under the law. In many communities it is acceptable to deprive lesbian and gay people of their jobs, homes, and children solely on the basis of their sexual orien­tation. Our expressions of love are criminalized, and our rela­tionships go unrecognized. liard working, tax-paying citi­zens are harassed, beaten. and murdered beeause some people think it is their privilege to attack us. It was for these rea­sons that we marched. 
The weekend was a true fam­ily reunion. Everywhere we met our sisters. brothers, parents, and children: the lesbian band director and her partner from Birmingham, the gay attorney from Los Angeles, the young niece on her gay uncle's shoulders, the lesbian couple from Chicago and their nag­waving children, the mom and from Minneapolis, the gay cou­ple (a doctor and professor) from Arlington, and others. 
No gathering of lesbian and gay people would be complete without a whole lot of partying. All over the city we danced, sang, skipped, cheered, and laug\1ed. At dusk the streets around DuPont Circle teemed with Mardi-Gras-like buoyancy. lnde11d, the word "gay" is still an adjective meaning "festive or and went crazy at the games. If you wondered who the lone saxophone was that always came through the tunnel on crutches, it was me. 

Needless to say, I overdid it a bit. I knew more surgery was imminent, but I'd hoped to make it through until summer or at least Christmas break. However, at the end of September my knee was more painful than ever. By the time I had X-rays done in October, it was literally in pieces. My par­ents and I went to a doctor in Chicago who convinced us that immediate surgery was re­quired. 
So, on the first of November, I embarked on one of my hardest journeys ever. I turned in my Band uniform, hugged my friends goodbye, and left Notre Dame. 
The act of leaving was excru­ciating. It is a horrible thing to realize your life's dream and then be made to turn away from it. I did have a few forces in my favor, though: God, my girlfriend, my family, and the Notre Dame Family. 
Like all of us, I heard much about this elusive Notre Dame Family during orientation. I figured that it was only lip ser­vice, an endearing catch-phrase us~d to help us freshmen feel welcome, then discarded when it was no longer useful. I could not have been more wrong. 
The Notre Dame Family is both real and alive. It pervades our school with a simple, yet powerful idea. WE are individ­uals of different ages, heritages. and backgrounds, but we all hold Notre Dame in common. We celebrate each other's victories and grieve together in our sorrows. We must carry one another. 
As time wore on, I found this truth more and more evident in my life. My professors agreed to help me complete the semester by correspondence so my work would not be lost. My adviser, Mrs. Chamblee, un­doubtedly spent countless hours ensuring that my transition from Notre Dame to home would be smooth. My friends kept in touch on an almost daily basis. The band would not be outdone in support. Every sec­tion sent a group card, flowers, balloons, or a combination of the sort. I was overcome with letters from friends both well acquainted and unfamiliar. 
The bulk of my mail came from people I didn't know well, if at all. It was enough that I was in the band and a student at Notre Dame. They didn't need anything more. The zenith of this generosity came in the form of a game ball from the Notre Dame/Penn State game compliments of Coach Holtz and Jerome Bettis (a fel­low Dawg). 
I underwent two operations in November and December, and my supporters never let me forget that I was loved and prayed for. When the dust set­tled after the second operation, I was well enough to take my father and my new artificial knee to the Cotton Bowl to be with the Band. 
That was the trip of a life­time. Reunited with my com­rades, it was just the lift I needed to tide me over until I saw them again. The sound thrashing dispensed by the Irish didn't hurt, either! 
I had not healed enough to return in January, but the flow of concern from South Bend never ceased. I could count on a card, letter, or phone call to arrive when I most needed it. With the help of my teachers and adviser, I completed the fall semester. The administration was super through the whole ordeal. 
This past weekend (April 16­20), I delivered on a promise I made the morning I left cam­pus, "I will come back." I spent the long weekend running (well, almost) around call1P!JS, visitiJlg everyone I possibJ'y could. I partied, socialized, and made 


March provides gays and lesbians with a vision of hope 
joyful." and interest group, began at Students/Alumni, 
At the pre-March rally Sunday noon, but the student contin­Elected/appointed officials, morning we heard rousing gent did not budge until three AIDS organizations, Religious speeches from a host of digni­o'clock-and we were the half­groups, and Dykes on Bikes. taries, including the Hev. Jesse way mark! Contingents included Banners and placards told what Jackson, several members of Seniors/elders, Youth, Parents we've always known: We Are Congress, and Notre Dame and Friends of Gays and Everywhere! alum Phil Donahue. Lesbians, Veterans and current Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
The actual March, with its 98 military, Bands, Drag/ students and alums marched in 
contingents organized by state Transgender, Activists, the best Notre Dame spirit, proud and honorable. We marched behind one of the 

classiest-and certainly one of the largest!-banners: a sixteen foot green tarp with "Lesbian and Gay Fighting Irish" printed in gold letters (of course). We often occupied an entire avenue's width. 
We marched in good com­pany: right behind Northwest­ern, just in front of Georgetown Law, and within earshot of Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Vas­sar, Dartmouth, Vanderbilt, Wheaton, Stanford, Purdue, and hundreds of other colleges and universities. 
Perhaps we acted the Domer part too well. We dressed in nice shirts, cuffed jeans, and sunglasses, annoyed a certain queen from Northwestern who unsuccessfully tried to coax us into chanting obnoxious cheers, sang the fight song, and waved to our cheering supporters. 
And did we have supporters! Hundreds of alumni and friends hailed us from the sidelines and the Mall, took pictures, stopped to talk, and even joined us. It is true that our alumni love our schools. We who marched cannot express to you the joy this school's lesbian and gay alumni felt when they saw us-it was the high-point of many a Domer's day. 
The alumni are galvanized for action, too. The Gay and Lesbian Alumni-NO (PO Box merry. I met with my teachers, adviser, and Coach Holtz. That weekend was another trip of a lifetime for several reasons. 

For the first time, I could simply walk over to the Basilica or Grotto whenever I wished, whereas this was impossible in the fall. Equally wonderful was the immediate recollection people had of me. Even those whom I hadn't written since I left embraced me at once. The more this happened, the less surprised I became. I began to learn very intimately that no amount of time or injury would sever this Family. It was as if I'd never left. 
As far as looking forward goes, let it suffice to say once more that I'll be back. I look forward to seeing you all in Au­gust, and I may even march one of these days. Please stay healthy and have wonderful summers. Please also keep these thoughts with you. Don't take our special places for granted. When one is sur­rounded by beauty, it's easy to seem commonplace. 
Always treasure Notre Dame's unique atmosphere. Second, know beyond any doubt that this Notre Dame Family is real. You are a member. You will always be a member. God forbid that any unexpected hardships befall you. but if they do, we will all rally to your side. On this you may depend; we will carry one another. 
God Bless and Keep You. 

Kurt R. Weiss 
Alumni Hall 
April27, 1993 
194, Notre Dame, IN 46556) network is in place and grow­ing. The banner will appear in the Boston and New York City Gay Pride Parades. A book on gay sons and lesbian daughters of ND/SMC is in the works. Matthew St. George, the deputy attorney for Los Angeles, told us that "we are committed to a legal challenge if the University fails to grant recognition in the 1993-94 academic year." Clearly, this March signals the -he beginning of a new era for homosexual Americans even at ND/SMC. 
We who marched know that the world did not, like night to day, change from hate and big­otry to understanding and ac­ceptance. Monday, for instance, one of our group eating at south dining hall silently endured the ravings of a 'Student who screamed to ino one in particular, "Faggots have no rights!" (Thosei:Prone to ha­rassment may wjint to re-read page 49 in DuLac.) That same day, however, another student took his chances, wore his March shirt in the Huddle-and got a date! 
The 1993 March on Washing­ton provided our nation-espe­cially its gay and lesbian citi­zens-with a vision of hope. We "came out" to D.C. to show the world who we are, and ask it to learn from us. One day we will look back on this March, hold our loved ones close, and say, "We were·there.", 
Erik Floan Notre Dame graduate student Kelly A. Smith St. Mary's undergraduate Chuck Colbert Notre Dame '78 Joan "Punky" Organ St. Mary's '73 
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
The Observer page 15 
The Student Government Lecture Series presents 
the founder of 





"" ' • f 1 6 1 ., ~ \ l ~ k l l l I • I J. 1 l · · • ) , -: ,_, ~-• !_:,!--~._:._. t'-4 JJ,.J. r 
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
• 







Five years ago comedian Jerry Sienfeld was a virtual nobody. Today he hosts his own T.V. sit­com-about nothing. And it's a hit. 
Meet Jerry. lie's tall, thin, neat and he gets along well with women. (Not that there's anything wrong with that.) On the show, Jerry plays... well... himself-a low­keyed, semi-whiney stand-up comedian from New York. lie has friends (see below). He has parents (thfly come down from Florida every so often). lie has Snapple. 
Enter George Costanza, Jerry's best friend. lie is short, stubby, slovenly and faces one problem with women after another (whether it means he can't get rid of one or he has driven one to lesbianism). 
Then there's Elaine (Laney!), Jerry's stylish ex-girl friend. She's sleek. She's witty. She wears Bottielli shoes-but don ask her about them. 
And who could forget Kramer? This leather jacket borrowing, Entertainment Tonight seizuring, not knocking before he slides into the apartment, all around zany neighbor has quickly become a television legend. 
Together these four have made the best out of nothing. They go about their daily business. he·w..~"-'7'V eat. They chit-chat. They out. They eat. They go to th~ opera. They eat. I' 
Its nothing! And there isn't anything wrong with that., 
Illustration by David Devine. Copy contributions made by Elisabeth Heard, Kenya Johnson and Meredith McCullough. ) 
WAZZUP, WAZZUP WAZZUP? 
Martin is on the air-still hot and 
still hysterical. 
Ever since the king of African 
American sitcoms, "The Cosby 
Show" left the screen a few year 
ago and entered into the world of 
reruns, "Martin" has stepped 
forward to claim the crown. 
So far, Martin and Gina , his 
long term girlfriend, are still 
kickin' it, even after the return of 
old boyfriend Keith Washington 
and a huge fight that lasted for 
two episodes. 
Martin came real close to 
messing up when he was caught 
with two hands full of Beverly 
Johnson, the gorgeous 
supermodel, but everything 
worked out after Gina uncere­
moniously told her to stay away 
from her man. 
Ko, Martin's crazy friend who works in the airport, is still at home, after a failed attempt to move in with Martin. He did break off his long and caring re­lationship with big Shirley. 
"Oh my goodness!" it's Shenehneh, still occasionally making an entrance with a weave, fake nails, gold chains and all. 
Pam, Gina's friend, still hasn't found a man (hey, there's always Ko!), and Tommy, the last member of the Martin/Ko trio, is still chillin' and surviving it all. 
So far, Martin has been a big success. He is making both a lot of money and a lot of people laugh every Thursday night. "You go boy!" 
90210-it's not just a zip code; it's a way of life. 
At least it is for Kelly Taylor, Dylan McKay, Brenda Walsh and five other Beverly llills brats. 
"Beverly llills, 90210" is, a prime-time series about teenage life in Beverly Hills, California. It portrays American teenagers as young adults facing socially relevant topics such as safe sex (or perhaps, closer to the Notre Dame atmosphere, no sex), teenage alcoholism, date rape and teen suicide. 
This year the Beverly Hills teens advanced to senior year (after going through their junior year twice). And of course, the spoiled eight advanced to more improbable conflicts and unbelievable problems. 
Andrea almost died, Dylan's father blew up. 
Steve was kicked out of school, and then let back in. Dylan left school, and then came back. 
Brandon's over alcoholism and into gambling. Brenda's a smoke stack. Kelly's anorexic. 
Donna and David love each other. David wants to have sex. Donna's catholic. 
Kelly loves Dylan. Brenda loves Dylan. Dylan loves Dylan. 
Andrea's still mateless. Donna's still elueless. Brenda's still heartless. 
David's got his music. And:r~g~ 90210's got no chance in 4655b. 



page 17 



T.V. Guides 

By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Editor 
S 
ummer is coming, slowly but surely. With a wave of heat 
floating in, no job or internship, and possibly summer school, one of the only things to look forward to this summer is that thing called "the boob tube". 
But there's no need to panic. It's the dawn of a new age in T.V. land, and boy is it good. 
Sure, there will still be reruns. but at least they'll be of decent shows. 
"It's the perfect time for me to catch up on 'Murphy Brown'," said junior· Maura Carroll. She also admitted thafshe likes see­ing reruns of old shows, espe­cially "Bewitched". 
Whereas people like Carroll will want to catch up on their favorite television shows, others just want to see repeats of their favorites over again. 
"I've seen a lot of the 'Fresh Prince's' (of Bel-Air) and 'Martin's' this season," said Pas­querilla East resident Chanza Baytop, "But they were so funny, 
"Cheers" will toast their beer I want to see them again." mugs for one last time this sea­Are all of us destined to be 
, 6 son. found with glazed-over eyes, . o Norm's drinking days are spaced-out brains and slobber­dripping mouths from being


0 (!J over.. Carla:s evil ways are over. 
Rosanne 

· ·. Sam s matmg games are over. glued to the television set all It's all over. summer? After eleven season's, the Let's hope not. 
whole gang will clear out their ''I'm still going to be very busy, dressing rooms and go their even though school is over" said separate ways. Carroll. She will be spending · Over the years we've gone much of her time working at a through Sam and Diane, Diane day care center in Connecticut. "I and Fraiser, Frasier and Lilith, really still won't have the time to 
and Lilith and some random 
watch as much T.V. as I'd like." psychologist. Yes, the childhood years of We've seen Carla have child watching our favorite shows all after child and Cliff tell story day and night are long gone. But 
after story. maybe, just maybe, with the We mourned the loss of semester gone and summer here, Coach but praised the addition we can "veg out" just a bit, and 
Woody. turn on the tube -for hours at a time.
We've wondered what orm's wife looks like. We've ndered how many women 
Sam's slept with. We've hated Rebecca. We've loved Rebecca. 
We watched Sam sell the bar and buy a boat. We saw Sam's boat sink and his bar burn. 
Rebecca's swayed from liking the boss {Robin), to being the boss, to liking the boss again (Sam). 
And now we're watching the last four episodes that "Cheers" has to offer. We've laughed, we've cried, and we've laughed again. I ' 
Cheers to "Cheers"-one 
,

show that will definitely be missed twice over. 
' 
Beverly Hills, 90210 



LLI
.... 
c 
en 
a: 
LLI 
a. 
= 
en 
.... 
c 
= 
z 
z 
c 
.c... 
=,...
• WHILE-U-WAITrlsos;;oij EYEGLASSES
j 
WI'IH

I. I FfiAMES$49
en-· 
.UBBLE BATH·;;·~~~ S.V.LENSES 
-
z 
COMPLETE 
1 
$J99: 

BRING YOUR PRESCRIPnON OR YOUR CURREHT OLASSES
c 
c:l
a: 
c 
m 
I.L. 
= BRING IN YOUR USED SUPER NES CARTRIDGE & GET $12 OFF ANY NEW CARTRIDGE
en 
·-= -"\ = 
=,... 
TlRES p 155/80/R13
•
LLI ..~~1j99
.... 
c 
HRIDGESTONE • LEMANS 
FIRESTONE • TRIUMPH
en &MUCHMORE! 
a: 
LLI 
a. 
= 
en 
.... 
c 
= 
z 

c 
.c... 
=,... • 
en-· 
z
-
c 
c:l
a: 
c 
m 
I.L. 
= 
en 
-"\ 
= 
= 
=,... 
L..~~ -.:::17~..­_,~c:::::lc~ -.:::~ 
1000s TO CHOOSE FROM 
SHIRK'S PIANO OUTLET' 
INCREDIBLE SUPER S;\LE SAVINGS 
J:O%oFF 
Baldwin Grand & Vertical Pianos Lowrey Organs Roland Digital Pianos & Much More! 
VACUUM INCREDIBLE

1-EKCO'"l 
~~" \~, ~ i SAVINGS!
CLEANERS

!"BAKER'S SECRET~i \ 'J... 
I ' 
I $;: .!J9 .co.:~ ~s'i~~~:. 
DIRTDEVIL59

i3FOR '$49! UPRIGHT VACUUM
; AMERICA'S FAVOf:UTE
,_ 

~. CLEANERS ~~~~~ ­

Jllll.;te!t 1811 sha!eiM •Ovei 21MXllillll ....DataBase•Education•GIIIIs 
WA~-~~
m.n $149$
WAS 
• 
~·~olftililiel 
Won!Piocesliiv•WIIldoln&lllre 
Shadow Boxes.c;.:-~;~ 
l~I«Ulllfl.l. .IAN!IiW.' 
$10 ° 
••w~<
u<~.n H" 
WAS
_,.=~ 
Mousol'<<tt•Di<ICI<am 
MAGAZINE RACKS 
• Blanl<formattedOisl'l 
OI!<SiOrao<lioxes•PtinterCII* 
m.u $149$ I 
! WAS I
Sootllll'ri!IIIIM•I:!ell 
SHARP DUAL 

PERSONAL STEREO $9
CASSETIE PLAYER 
•

$69 $692! 12"CAR ~M
SPEAKER INCR/;IJJBI.£!i!oYINGS/ 
KENWOOD BOXES c$A2Rs8TER9E5o:s 
60 WATTS PER CHANNEl AMP $89 
$99 

MUCH HI POWER RADIO $99 FA01o1 MORA"! ANTI-THEFT CD PlAYER $249 CAR SPEAKER $19.95 
t\DPIONEER
HOME 6+1 CD PlAYER WI REMOTE $149 100 WATT RECEIVER WI SURROUND SOUND $179 SOJ!Iiii"Y. 
BROOKS RUNNING SHOES
$10 
Rezabek 
KIDSSHOES:$20 

ADIDAS $ PUMA $1 REEEJOK PUMP J
20 ;
& NIKE N/KE$20 
REEBOK HI TOP$30 ~-FILA$30
/\( H/111/1/L .\ 11/\'l,~! 
.JOOO 1'/ECES: GENERIM 
CROSS 

Hl'PERCOWR SIIOKTS, TOPS & MORE! 
li] 
/NCREf)IRIJi

$;99 0~$10 
EACH FOTI S,11'/NG~! 
..,.,.,.,..,,., 
~ 1=11.-,..,...,.,..... 
GOLD, SILVER Perfume 
HUGE SAVINO$ 
DIAMONDS, 
ON WOMEN'S &MEN'S 

WATCHES, FRAGRANCES INCLUDING: 
RED • CHLOE • CARTIER
EARRINGS, 
POISON • GVCCI• fEND/

CHAINS DR.IKKAII• COWRS • JAZZ 
RED DOOR • REA/JTIES

&MORE UZ CUI/IORNE •/'OW 
it.,A%"~·u~= 
/VOFF l::J 
GREA-r OU,.DOORS 
TENTS • SLEEPING BAGS  Academy Broadway • Wentzel  
CAMPING ACCESSORIES  White Sta~ • Wilderness Trails Cabela 's • Americnn Camper  
& Gander Mountain  

COR~~5:~ .~38 -coBOOM BOX $79 BOOM BOX $24 ~ANSWERING $29 
...~ ·~ MACHINE·­coBRA cAR $29 ~ RADAR $29 
AlARM J ~DETECTOR 
Pioneer •Kenwood •Alpine~'(/,~RockfordFosgate •JVC • AfT% Til ~1:'1:' Onk}'o •P}'le &Much Morel vrr 
Appliances 
RCA BIG SCREEN TV $1499 (FULLSIZE!GIBSON $599 '""" 

WASHER/DRYER 
FREEZERS 
$26 9 
4 HEAD VCR MICROWAVES
$239 CAMCDR~~~ $599 
$4!EN 
MUCH SCANNERS 
BRD-r;:~.:;~~ $299 MORE! $89 
1\'11/H/J'OO/. • QUAS,tH • MM;NA I'OX & MVC/I MOI/I:! 

en 
:1:11 
m ~ 
......• 
= 
= 
='-­
fn 
= 
-n 
m 
:1:11 
:II 
= 
:1:11-
-----------------4----------------~----------------_,-----------------·z
z ltll'lc..,,.... 
.en 
~ llll'la~..lc= ·­
10,000s COs 
1,000soiCASSffiES $
199 $;99
$399 ,to 
1,OOOs of MOVIES 
$599 

~-~----~---------------·---·-----~----~-~---.--------------~---~~·~--------------------~-~­
Accent ,. 
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 

Kris Kazlauskas Straight outta 'waka 
Sorry sir, the Ieee machine is broken 
S 
orne people make fries. Some kids pump gas. My neighbor will mow your lawn for a bucket of Hot Wings and a pack of Skittles. Ah, yes, summer creeps upon us in rhythmic fashion. The willows waft in the breeze. Nightingales sing lullabies which send me into a deep slumber. My cats shed their fur while my grandma sneezes and her eyes swell shut. 
At such a pleasant time of year, I find myself pondering summer employment. Should I find a fun job or something that might be useful later on in life? My friend, Chris Parazin, suggests that maybe I should consider being an engineer assistant at a nuclear fuel fabrication plant that makes uranium-pellet fuel rods for commercial nuclear power plants. I ponder the oppor­tunities, and still come to the same conclusion: I have found my niche. Miniature golf is not just a job for me, it's a passion. 
I first stepped into the realm of employment as a high school freshman. I worked for a lawyer, filing papers and making photocopies of my face. Law never interested me, or anyone else in my family. {My dad is currently a mime fur a Lithuanian circus. My mom is the telemarketing wizard behind the success of the Thighmaster. My grandparents can be found in a· tiny community·:in-NewwundJand thflt pans for gold and lives in clay huts.) Thus, I knew that this first job was merely going to be a springboard for bigger and better things. 
During the spring of my junior year, I found a home at Great America. a theme park with an emphasis on American history and Hanna­Barbera characters. I worked in the games department, and in a part of the park known as "County Fair." My wardrobe boasted the finest green polyester knickers with snappy brown argyles to match. The suspenders, along with one of those pre-Depression hats that sits flat on your head, transformed me into a regular Tiny Tim. I lived in that uniform, and cried myself to sleep on the day I turned it in. 
I started out working in the game units. I got promoted after six weeks, and received some death threats from a girl that had worked there for four seasons. Once, when I asked her to leave "Muffin Madness" to cover "Jetson's Space Race," she started bawling like a baby, and began swearing at me in Korean. An equal opportunity organization, the majority of Great America's employees were from dysfunctional families. 
The best part of the job was making cash runs. I would go with a person from the "treasury" of the park to empty the money that was accumulated at each game. Never before did I receive so much attention from fourth grade hoodlums in Raiders jackets. As I cruised to all of the games throughout the park, I felt like a "gangsta" with my pre-puberty posse at my side. 
As if life couldn't get any better, last year I found my career. Golfland is the epitome of family fun, with two miniature golf courses, a huge arcade, and waterslides to boot. I worked the snack bar, the golf window, and the grill during my brief summer stay. Somebody told me that it was a no-brainer job, and I took that as a compliment. A job like mine must be performed by instinct. If the nacho container was low, I filled it with chips. If somebody left the grill unattended with a flaming burger on it, I extinguished the fire. If the ieee machine was broken, I told the customer,'Tm sorry sir, the Ieee machine is broken. Perhaps you might like a piece of teriyaki jerky. No? How about a Blow Pop?" 
I loved that life. and have since developed lasting friendships with the other employees. In a sense, I believe I have found my calling. What? You've lost a token in Streetfighter? I will gladly give you a refund. For I am a happy breed of man, and this is my family fun center, my realm, my Golfland. 
page 19 

Notre Dame graduate offers legal counsel to sports and entertainment figures 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Editor 

Max Siegel has surely been paying attention to the recent National Football League draft picks, which included nine Notre Dame football players this year. 
Now, he wants the players to pay attention to him. 
Siegel, a graduate of Notre Dame and Notre Dame Law School, is an associate of Baker and Daniels, a law firm in Indianapolis, Fort Wayne, South Bend and Washington D.C. 
His services include incorporating new businesses, reconstructing established businesses and advising clients regarding a variety of other transactions. 
But probably most enjoyable to Siegel is the work he does with clients from the sports and entertainment industries. 
A few of these clients include professional baseball player Tony Gwynn of the San Diego Padres, popular R&B groups Men At Large and Natural Selection, and gospel singer Vanessa Bell Armstrong. 
"I never thought of getting into the entertainment business through my career," he said. "Actually I was trying desperately to turn away from it." 
Siegel has been a part of the entertainment industry since he was a child, due to his parents' musical talents. He has first-hand experience of the glory and the fame, the heartache and the pain. 
"I saw the corrupt dealings going on,'' said Siegel. ·:we didn't_have the right people on our side and, in the end, really suffered the consequences." 
But it was with these shattering experiences as a child, from which he once tried to escape, that Siegel decided to go into the business. 
"I saw what went wrong, and knew I had to do it the right way," he explained. 
Siegel was one of the first African­Americans to graduate from Notre Dame Law School with honors, cum laude. During that time, Siegel also helped the Notre Dame community by serving on the Task Force on Cultural Diversity, Advisory Council to University Officers on Law School Curriculum and the Academic Advisory for Student Athletes. 
Now, in his practices, Siegel would like to assist new members to the industry, such as Jerome Bettis and Rick Mirer. 
"I want them (drafted players) to know that they will need assistant from a firm such as ours," Siegel said. "Many times people tend to forgot about legal counsel and end up getting in a lot of trouble." 
Gwynn was a primary example of this. 
"He didn't even have a lawyer and found himself in many legal conflicts," he said. After Siegel "worked out" all of his bind~. Gwynn said "if only I had known about you guys five years ago." 
And this is exactly Siegel's goal -to let potential clients know that he's available, and to let them know before it's five years too late. 
"Young adults especially don't know what we're about, or don't see why they would need us," Siegel claimed. 
So why would football players, 
musical artists or anyone else dealing with a lot of contracts need Siegel? 
"They need someone who knows the legal points of just about everything," Siegel explained. "The agent or manager can't be responsible for everything, and many times they sim­ply do not know the legalities on some manners." With a lawyer like Siegel, neither clients nor their managers would have to worry about such things. 
Siegel takes care of such transactions as contracts, nego­

...
tiations, sponsorship agreements, copyright matters, licensing and personal appearances. 
"Students should really start thinking about their lives and what they may need," Siegel encouraged. "If they don't come to me, I just hope they realize they may need legal assistance sooner than they may think, and at Least go to somebody." 


esc hosts cere,mQ;nyJor.. 
seniors dedicated 
By CHRISTY FLEMING 
Assistant Accent Editor 

There are those who will be graduating in May who have probably secured their first job in the "real world" or hope. to further their education in graduate school. But often forgotten are the many seniors who plan to offer their time in various service projects. 
Therefore. in honor of these dedicated students, the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) will host its third annual ~senior Send-Off," ceremony on Saturday, May 15, at 
10:30 a.m. The ceremony is free and will take place in Washington Hall, with a dinner reception following at the esc. 
"This ceremony serves as an affirmation of the volunteer programs that will .be taking place after graduation," said senior Annie Cahill, one of this year's participants. 
Cahill will be involved in the one­year Holy Cross Associates Program (HCA) beginning in July, which she said Willbea.big't?mmitment. 
"First, ?students undergo a orientation process before being sent to thek sights for the one to two-year period," she explained. Once at the 
site, much time and effortis put intQ iiiiiii 
the projec~ as welL;•..· . •..·,·.. ······ ..__________..,.. "The time expended each week leaching. averages abOut 40 hours""""like any 'ilFLtru Narini,Notr~ Dame graduate 
full~time, J.18,ylng jobl she said. 
l'~e Q~~~mqn:y; h~ld <}uring. seJlior week/ primarily ~cts as an opportunity for awareness, informing parents ~qre. &bout the servi<;~ programs in which their children are involved; according to Kathy Royer. coordinator ofServi(fe and Social Action Gronps. 
"Parents needto realize that their child will not be alone,'' said Cahill. "Usually. 10 percent of the senior class gets involved in some sort of service work!' 
The ceremony also explains the variow~ projects available to students such as international programs in Chile a.nd Jamaica, working with abused women, day-care and and current c:Urector of the Center for the Homeless •.will be guest speaker of the ceremony. Nanni Will speak on his experiences in Chile with HCA, 
University President Father Edward Malloy will also be in attendance, 
performing  the  "actual  
commissioning  of  the  students  
involved," said Cahill.  

Students do not have to be involved in a program sponsored by the CSC to attend the ceremony. 
"Anyone is welcome to participate in the send-otT," said Royer. 
Any seniors who are interested in attending can sign up at the CSC. For more information call Maryann Roemer, coordinator of Senior Volunteer Programs, at 631-5293. 

~~--~.---~------~~..............~......~~~----------------------.--~----~-------.----.-------~--------------------~----------------------------------------~ --­
page 20 The Observer Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 

Includes driving to soccer, ballet,  -Free covered parking,  picked up from 12-5pm on  
NOTICES  etc. and afternoons at village pool. Salary negotiable, 708·789·1686,  -2 large bedrooms, ·2 full bathrooms,  I NEED 1 RETURN FLIGHT FROM SARASOTA OR TAMPA TO  TOP TEN QUOTATIONS FROM THE 1993 MARCH ON  Monday, May 3rd at the same locations.  
Marybeth Dougherty  -Only 1/4 mile from door of  SOUTH BEND OR CHICAGO ON  WASHINGTON FOR LESBIAN,  SENIOR FORMAL PICSIIIII!I  
TYPING 256-6657  '79.  Hesburgh library.  MAY 23 CALL RICH, 631-5370  GAY, AND BISEXUAL EQUAL  
For appt. -272.0691 or see Off­ RIGHTS  Top ten quotes from THE  
Kim and Meg rock the world!  NO PROFESSOR AND GRAD  Campus Housing office.  1 WY-TICKET; FEMALE  AND LIBERATION:  Birthday Dinner...  
STUDENT NEED SITTER(S)  MAY 18, S.BND-TAMPA  
I am a Ugandan student aged 20  FOR 2 CHILDREN, 1 1/2 AND  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  $125 OBO FRANK 634-4539  1 O.There's no better sight than  1. H.M. Ship  
years by the name of Kakimda  3 1/2 YRS OLD, FOR 93·94  KITCHEN, PHONE,  South Bend in the rear-view mirror.  2. What's wrong with my clapping?  
Robert, and I want some pen  SCHOOL YR. IN OUR HOME,  5 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS.  I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR SMC  9.1 like your big red car.  3. Wait, waiLmy story is better.  
friends from USA.  WHILE WE ARE WORKING  272·0615.  GRADUATION (In case of  B.Hurry up! I thought you lesbians  4. Can't I say anything normal?  
KAKIMDA ROBERT  THERE. 10-30 HRSIWK,  rain).  were all wash and go.  5. Michiganders do it in their head.  
c/o GN SEBUFU REDO BARN  $5.50/HR. CALL ANGELA OR MICHAEL, 233-6901 OR  FOR SALE  PLEASE CALL ROBIN X4399.  7.Gay myth #9: We all have good taste.  6. Diann hurling children? 7. There are strange things going  
POBOX 1610  631-7384.  Looking lor one extra NO  6. Merchants never lear gay people  on in the bathroom.  
MASAKA  '87 Hyundai. Excel. Call Tony 277­ commencement ticket..  lor looting. It would take us too long  B. There was a lot to be on top of.  
UGANDA  Looking lor 1 ROOMATE to  8921.  call 284-5254  to try on everything in the store.  9. But officer, it's after 12:30 and it  
live at Campus View next yr.  ThanksI  5. I can't believe this · three gay  had a white border.  
Looking lor a roommate lor  w/2 other guys aprox. $200/m turn  One way ticket So. Bend-Boston on  men and none of us brought hair  10. So bye bye Miss American Pie ...  
the 1993-94 school year in  & uti!. incl. Paul x2990  May 9th.  I need extra graduation tixl  spray.  Diann, Stacia, Veronica and Steve,  
Omaha, NE. Call Mary at  Best offer. Call Amannda @ 2601.  Please call Kathryn at x2999  4.Do you think you'd respect  thank you so much for the best  
x3484 if interested.  LOOKING FOR RESPONSIBLE  women if you weren't gay?  birthday (and laughs) I've had in a  
SELL YOUR BOOKS FOR $$  FEMALE WITH CAR TO BABYSIT FOR SUMMER DISCUSS  NO Ski Team T·Shirts Only $1011 Call John at x1160  PERSONAL  3.That's 'Mr. Faggot' to you! 2.0h my god • Notre Darne is here!  long timell Love,  
Pandora's Books 808 Howard  HOURS/PAY IN INTERVIEW.  1.We're here! We're queer! Our  Ann  
at the BOOKMOBILE  CALL 232·6755.  NO Ski Team T-Shirts  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  parents think we're studying!  
NO ave & Howard 233-2342  Only $101!  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  Top 10 Reasons to wish Kathy  
Someone to share in-town  Call John at (708)304·4226  Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  Connors a Happy 21st  
- ND/SMC Ice Cream Sundae  storage expenses  46615, or call Pager #282·7042.  ••goll"goll"goll"golf"goll·golf••  Birthdayi(April 28)  
Social!! Wednesday, April 28 from 4  call Liz X2966  87 Chevy Nova for sale by senior  $•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•  1. She loves fuzzy balls-tennis that  
to 6 pm in the Hesburgh Library  who is moving to NYC and can't  Adopt: we are truly loving couple  is!  
Lounge. Bring a penny and all your  50,000,000 Babies  afford to keep it there. Excellent  who can bring love and happiness  WIN PRIZES!  2. She'll bake you cookies  
friends. Sponsored by the GSU  shape, air cond, pull out stereo, 4D.  to your white newborn. We offer  Sign up for the  3. She won't get faked out of her  
Women's Resource Committee.  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ $3000 or b.o.. Call Mike at 271­ financial security and a great future  TODD BROSKI BENEFIT  jock strap  
Earn $2000+/month + world travel  0157.  in our oceanside home.  GOLF TOURNAMENT  4. She can Breakdance  
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean,  Medical/legal expenses covered. 1·  5. She swallows( even though it  
NEW JERSEY STUDENTS  etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career  APARTMENT SALE  800·438·6599 eves.  Saturday, May B, 1993  cums out of her nose)·just ask  
employment available. No  sola-sleeper, double beds,  $1 0 Student entrance fee  Ricky Joe  
Luggage Trucks will be running to  experience necessary. For  dressers, end-tables, kitchen table,  IL couple married 10 yrs. longing  $35 Staff/Public entrance lee  6.You'll never forget what she looks  
campus back to New Jersey  employment program call 1·206·  desk, TV/stereo stand  lor a family. We offer endless  like-she's sure to give you a picture  
634·0468 ext.C5584  ··priced to sew·  love, security, deep Christian family  Sign ups at the LaFortune  7. She tarts more than a guy!  
Loading at Stepan  call mark@ 271-1578  values, education, close  Information Desk, the Pro  B. She's a hard ass!  
Thurs May 6 6:00-8:00  ROOMATES NEEDED, SUMMER  extended family with cousins &  Shop(behind the Rock), or with a  9. Revenge is sweeeeetl  
Fri May 7 12:30·2:30  AND NEXT YEAR PLEASE CALL  MOVING OFF CAMPUS?  large group of friends with children  Dorm representative  1 0. Because she told you to!  
289-9353 & LEAVE A MESSAGE.  Bedroom Furniture lor sale.  just waiting lor a playmate. Please  Happy Birthday Kathl We couldn't  
Unloading In Morris Plains and CBA  Call Karen 271-7926  call 800·382·8897. We'd love to  ENTER NOW!  bid any higher!  
on Sun May 8  FOR RENT  New double bed, couch set, table,  talk to you.  ••other donations accepted  Love, Meaghan & Carla  
Directions and flyers will be In the  etc. Call Alicia at 272-3638.  THURSDAY-Charity Run/Walk  and appreciated  Robbi and Eddi's top Ten  
mail at the loading trucks.  BED 'N BREAKFAST  in honor of Kate Walsh; Class of  ••an proceeds to defer medical  10. Twinsllll NOT  
?'s call Jim@ 634-1946  FOR ND/SMC PARENTS  Condo--Walk to Notre Darnell  1993  costs for Todd)  9.1t's his shoes.  
219/291·7153  3 Bedroom, 2 Bath. Large Unit.  2.5 mile walk  $·$·$·$•$•$·$·$·$·$·$·$·$·  B. Green-eyed men with broad  
ILOST & FOUND I  MOVING TO LOS ANGELES? Need a place to Live? I am an  $79,900. The Prudential Joseph Dunfee Realtors-Kay Norem 299-0110 or  4:30pm $5 registration lee Meet at Angela at 4:00 to sign in  ••golf"golf"golf"golf"golf"golf"...............................  shoulders. 7.1'm not short, just height impaired. 6.1t's alii could find in the dark.  
-­ alumnus  235-3589.  First 50 entrants get free T-Shirts.  ANDY MCSHANEIIIII  5. Dances-Pre and Post fun.  
LOST: 6 Keys on N.D. bottle­ from the class of 1989. My current  HOLY CROSS HALL WEEK  4. Sorry Charlie Ill  
opener key ring in LaFortune or  roommate is getting  85 Ford Escort. 76k Good  Play well! Rock that organ like only  3.No, I'm not drunk, Really!  
Brare. Helplll #2448  married and will be moving out on  cond. Standard trans. A steal  HOLY CROSS HALL WEEK  you can.  2.Horrible?????  
June 1 , 1993. The  at $900. Call Eileen at  1.What r u doing here? J. D.  
LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST!  apartment has security parking and  284-5334.  WEDNESDAY: WHITE SOX AT  Your pals,  jaw drop.  
reasonable rent.  THE COVE  Erik and Darrin.  Congrats on law school. These 2  
one new Notre Dame water polo  Call my home at (213) 660·7855 or  SMC approved LOFT in great  THURSDAY: CHARITY RUN/WALK  yrs have been fun. I'll  
jacket. It is navy blue with yellow  office (213) 356-6000 X5943,  condition for sale at  FRIDAY: BARBECUE WITH  MARKETING CLUB  miss you. Love Eddi  
letters and number 4 on the sleeve.  ask lor Steve Smetana.  GRACE HALL  END OF THE YEAR  
It has my name stitched on the  BEST offer Ill  PARTY  •••LONG ISLAND CLUB•••  
front. Last seen In the Knott Hall  3·5 person furnished house, sec  HOLY CROSS HALL WEEK  Wed. April 28 at 4:30  
laundry room after 2am. Sun.  system, wash/dry, beach V-ball,  Call Mara at 284-5254  Senior Bar  Baggage trucks are back!  
morning. II you have it or you've  prime location. $500. 109 N. St.  ATTN: SUMMER SCHOOL  All Marketing Majors  We are loading them May 7th.  
seen it please call x4941 or deliver  Peter, 233-9947.  FURNITURE FOR SALE! QU  STUDENTS  Welcome  
it to 240 Knott Hall (no questions  SZ BED, SLEEPER SOFA,  Look for fliers in the mail.  
asked). It is very cold without a  ROOM FOR RENT, Privacy, Uti!.  TABLES. PRICES FLEX.  $5.50 Haircuts  PITT CLUB STILL needs someone  
jacket so please return It I miss it.  incl., Must see, Male preferred, ph  287·9873.  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  to organize luggage truck or it will  ?'s call nm at x2763  
Thanks.  291-9093  1523 Lincolnway West  not be available-call 4828 if  
Davida  An Apple lmagewriter 2  South Bend, IN  interested  ATTENTION CLASS OF '93:  
Excellent condition  233·4767  II you do not return the yellow  
LOST a week or so ago:  original packing  II you are moving to D.C.  Database cards to C & P you will  
Black money clip, no money  Don't stay on-campus this  paper included  In the 70's and early 80's, why were  permanently, join the CLUBII  automatically be taken off of the  
(of course), but I can identify it.  summer--5UB-LEASE our 2-bdrm.  $175 negotiable. Call evenings  Bookstore signups held on March  (The N.D. alumni club of D.C. that  Resume Expert Database. Please  
PLEASE call Dave at 234·9209.  apt. at CASTLE POINT!  before 9  10th?  is!) Information packets with all you  take care of this before you leave  
Thanks.  272-3019.  Find out in: Look Out For The  ever wanted to know about life in  campus this Spring. Thank you.  
Enjoy air-conditioning, a pool, and  Manhole Cover, available now in the  D.C. are available at the LaFortune  
•Lost at Senior Fomnal in  REDUCED RENTII  82 Kawasaki KZ440  bookstore!  Info desk, the alumni office, career  ··sENIORS••  
Chicago• 1 roll of completed  Runs good, new brakes, battery,  and placement, and the government  
film with 2 months of pictures •  CALL NOW 4-4673  clutch. Must Sell.  Which Bookstore team was shut-out  dept. To join the club, call Elsie  Class Watercolor Lithograph  
EXTREME sentimental value •  $350 firm. 288-1027 Tom  three years in a row?  Kozak Crawford, '90, 202-332·4943.  
it found, PLEASE call Mary at  Find out in: Look Out For The  Membership FREE!!  Created by David Colgan  
46191  1 blk from ND Apts. Sale,  Sell bed and other furniture cheap.  Manhole Cover, available now in the  
affordable, furnished apts.  Call Christian, tel. 271·0157.  bookstore!  WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB  On Sale Now  
WANTED  At 755 South Bend Ave.: STUDIO: $215  How many teams with varsity  BAGGAGE TRUCK HOME  $10  
1·BDRM: $245  basketball players have won the  LOADING TIMES  
SUMMER JOBS  2-BDRM: $330  Bookstore championship?  THURSDAY-MAY 6  at LaFortune Info Desk  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  incusbus-the campus CD  Read about them in: Look Out For  FRIDAY -MAY 7  
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  At 607 E. Corby:  The Manhole Cover, available now  (12:00 P.M.-5:00P.M.)  Buy Now, You won't want to  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  1 BDRM: $265  is on sale at the  in the bookstore!  graduate without IIIII  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  Info. Desk in LaFortune  N. QUAD-STEPAN COURTS  
CALL 1·800-786-8373.  At 519 E. Corby:  THE NOTRE DAME DEBATE  S. QUAD-LYONS COURTS  ··sENIORS••  
2 BDRM: $280  the disc only costs $8  TEAM is currently accepting  ???????QUESTIONS??????  
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­ Get yours now-it's good stuff!  applications lor a part-time debate  CALL PAT CADY(#35BO)  
Make money teaching basic  SUMMER OR FALL  coach. II interested, send a resume,  Severinsen I Palace Laundry  
conversational English abroad.  Dep. & References.  (sponsored by SUB)  two letters of recommendation, and  Deborah Kriegel of the Psyc  
Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000­ 1·800·582-9320.  a list of previous debate  Department -I LOVE YOU II  SENIORS:  
$4,000+ per month. Many provide  achievements to the Vice President  WISH YOUR FRIENDS GOOD  
room & board + other benefits! No  SENIORS/PARENTS: Bed &  of Student Affairs  In search of Graduation Tickets,  LUCK WITH OBSERVER  
previous training or teaching  Breakfast rm. avail. only 10 mins.  WEDDING GOWN,  University of Notre Dame  please call Jim  CLASSIFIEDS. COME IN BEFORE  
certificate required. For International  from campus. Large rm. w/private  "DEMETRIOS", SIZE 6.  315 Main Building  at 277-9924  3 PM ANY WEEK DAY UNTIL MAY  
Employment program, call the  bath. 277·7696 after 5.  GORGIOUS. NEVER WORN. $500.  Notre Dame, IN 46556  13.  
International Employment Group:  271·5632.  DEADLINE: May 1.  Prehistoric­ 
(206) 632·1146 ext. J5584.  Room in House lor summer in  Tell me who I should smile at  00¢ THE COPY SHOP 00¢  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Indian Village 1/4 mile north of ND. Nice yard, washer, cat, semi·  TICKETS  Doctor and teacher will make dreams lor your baby come true.  -Flattered  in LaFortune Student Center QUALITY COPIES  
· fisheries. Earn $600+/week in  furnished 273·1384  Full-time parenting. Best of the city;  LOOKING FOR 1-3 PEOPLE  as low as 3¢ each  
canneries or $4000+/month on  DESPERATELY SEEKING  summers by the beach. Your baby  WHO NEED RIDE TO DALLAS  OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK  
fishing boats. Free transportation!  Summer sublet: furnished  GRADUATION TICKETS!!  rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace  MAY 7 OR B CALL  
Room & Board! Over 8000  2 bdrm house near campus  Gram and Gramp are coming  in winter, and by ocean waves in  STEPHANIE AT X492B  
openings. No experience  AC, nice yard, $300  and I need 2 tix. Please call  summer. Art, music, the best  SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD  
necessary. Male or Female. For  Dave 232·7970  Kristin at 4-4272 if you have  education, endless love. Call  SALLY D. IN RECSPORTS •  BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF  
employment program call 1-206·  any extras, and name your  Franny or Stephen collect.  CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR  TOURNAMENTIII  
545·4155 ext.A5584  ··students••  price  (212) 369-2597.  HOLE-IN-ONE!  
Now renting 1300 sq ft condos at  SATURDAY MAY B  
We need a 3rd roommate for our  College Park Condominiums. All  I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR SMC  HEY! MUSICAL CHAIRS QUEEN,  SENIORS!I!II  OPEN TO ALL  
summer aptlll(rent will be low)  units include:  GRADUATION(IN CASE OF RAIN).  KATHY-CASEY, "TWO BABES",  Proofs from Senior Formal  
OakHill. Jeannie 273-9406 Corie  -Security systems,  PLEASE CALL ROBIN X4399.  NICOLITA, KAREN, LUCY,  are on display at the Info desk  SIGN UP AT THE PRO SHOP IN  
x2358  ·Hard wood floors,  LAUREN, AND THE SIX PACK­ in Lafortune and at Haggar  BACK OF THE ROCK OR WITH  
·All appliances,  Like 5000 others, I too NEED  GOOD LUCK  Lounge until Wednesday,  YOUR DORM REP  
Need responsible student with car  -Washer & dryer in unit,  GRAD TIX II But I' m a swell  ON FINALS AND HAVE A GREAT  April 28th. All candids ordered  
to provide summer care lor 3-4 kids  ·Large balconies,  guy, so call KJ @ 273·2958  SUMMERI·CH  from these and any packages  GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS!!  
in Hinsdale, IL, M·F 7:30·6:00.  ·Gas utilities,  ordered at the dance may be  

The Observer 

.....................................................:""'• • 0 -....
• ~ : ·: ·: :: :: : : : : :: : .._ r • ~­
_...._ -~ •'" . 0 • ·..... : : : : .....·:..... :"'", :""': ":" : : ·... ) 1iJ·
'--"' i_\l " • : : : : : . • : • : : : • • : : ..... "'~~~ ­~ '" • •••••• • ••••• • ••••••• : •• : •••••• :..... ••••• • • •••••• Jt -'" ,' _. 
. . . 

STANDINGS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 

TODAY'S MAJOR LEAGUE 
NATIONAL LEAGUE W L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB LEADERS BAITING--Bonds, San Francisco, .397; Detroit Galarraga, Colorado, .395; Merced, Pittsburgh, .361; 
Eaat Dlvlalon E..t Division 
Philadelphia 14 5 .737 13 6 .684 By The Associated Press 
Toronto Slaugh!, Pittsburgh, .356; Kruk, Philadelphia, .348;
Montreal 12 7 .632 2 12 8 .600 1 1/2 AMERICAN LEAGUE • Boston Gonzalez, Houston, .339; Lansing, Montreal, .339.
Pittsburgh 11 9 .550 31/2 11 8 .579 2 BATIING--Oierud, Toronto, .435; MVeughn, 
New York RUNS-Bonds, San Francisco, 21;
St. louis 11 9 .550 31/2 10 8 .556 21/2 Boston, .403; Phillips, Detroit, .403; Snow, California, 
Milwaukee MaWJIIiams, San Francisco, 17; Kruk, Philadelphia,
Chicago 10 9 .526 4 8 9 .471 4 .386; Gibson, Detroit, .383; Hamilton, Milwaukee, 
Cleveland 17; Dykstra, Phii.Kielphia, 16; EYoung, Colorado, 15;
New York 8 10 .444 51/2 7 12 .368 8 .391; Curtis, California, .351. 
Baltimore ACoie, Colorado, 15; King, Pittsburgh, 15; JaBell,
Floride 8 12 .400 61/2 5 13 .278 71/2 RUNS--Fryman, Detroit, 19; Belle, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, 15.
Wool Dlvlalon Weat Divlalon 18; Gonzalez, Texas, 17; Carler, Toronto, 17; Snow, 
RBI-Bonds, San Francisco, 20;

W L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB California, 16; Curtis, California, 16; Lofton, 
California 12 Galarraga, Colorado, 19; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, 17;Houston 11 8 .579 4 .750 
Clevaland, 16; Palmer, Texas, 16; Phillips, Detroit, 
Texas Hayes, Colorado, 16; Grissom, Montreal, 15; Bonilla,
San Francisco 12 9 .571 10 8 .556 3 18; Whitaker, Detroit, 16. Atlanta 1 1/2 10 9 .526 3 1/2
11 11 .500 Chicago New York, 15; lansing, Montreal, 14; Kruk,
RBI-carler, Toronto, 23; Balle, Clevaland, 19; Philadelphia, 14; Murray, New York, 14.
San Olago 8 10 .444 2 t/2 Seattle 9 10 .474 41/2 Fryman, Detroit, 18; Snow, CaJHornia, 17; Olerud, 
Colorado 7 12 .388 . 4 Minnesota HITS-Galarraga, Colorado, 30;
8 11 .421 51/2 Toronto, 17~ Canseco, Texas, 17; Greenwell, Boston, Cincinnati 7 13 .350 4 1/2 Kansas City 
Blauser, Atlanta, 26; JaBell, Pittsburgh, 26; tensing,

8 12 .400 6 17; Tettleton, Detroit, 17. los Angeles 7 .350
13 Oakland Montreal, 25; Bonds, San Francisco, 25; Grace,
41/2 5 10 .333 61/2 HITs-oterud, Toronto, 30; Phillips, Detroit, 29;Mondoy'a Gomeo Mondoy'a Gomeo 
Chicago, 24; MaWJillams, San Francisco, 24.

MVaughn, Boston, 25; Fryman, Detrol~ 25; Baerga, 
Cincinnati 3, Florida 0 Milwaukee 10, Minnesota 3 DOUBLES-Bonds,. San Francisco, 8;
Clevaland, 25; Lofton, Clevaland, 24; Cooper, 
los Angeles at New York, ppd., rain Toronto 8, Texas 6 Cordero, Montreal, 7; Bagwell, Houston, 7; Kruk,
Boston, 24; Hamilton, Milwaukee, 24; Buhnar, St. louis 3, Houston 2 Chicago 7, Baltimore o 
Philadelphia, 7; Galarraga, Colorado, 7; lansing,

Seattle, 24; l.Johnson, Chicago, 24. Pittsburgh 4, Atlanta 3, 11 innings Detroit 5, Kansas City 3 
Montreal, 6; Anthony, Houston, 6; Caminiti, Houston,DOUBLES-MVaughn, Boston, 8; Amaral, 

6.

Chicago 6, Colorado 3 Seattle 6, Cleveland 3 
Seattle, 7; Anderson, Baltimore, 7; 9 are tiad with 6. Philadelphia 9, San Francisco 8, 10 Innings Only games schedulad 
TRIPLES-Martin, Pittsburgh, 3;

TRIPLES-Pagllarulo, Minnesota, 4; Lofton, 
Montreal 8, San Dlago 4 Tueaday'a Gamea VanderWal, Montreal, 2; Castilla, Colorado, 2;
Cleveland, 3; Greenwell, Boston, 3; Snow, California, Dlewis, San Francisco, 2; ACole, Colorado, 2; Kelly,Tueaday'a Game• late Games Not lncludad 
2; McRae, Kansas City, 2; Burks, Chicago, 2; Polonia, late Game Not lncludad Milwaukee 3, Minnesota 2 
Cincinnati, 2; JaBell, Pittsburgh, 2; Bonds, San

California, 2; Cora, Chicago, 2; Fletcher, Boston, 2; San Francisco 6, Philadelphia 3 Toronto 4, Texas 3 
Francisco, 2; Coleman, New York, 2; OSmith, St.
CRipken, Baltimore, 2. 
louis, 2.

Los Angeles 4, New York 1 Chicago 9, Baltimore 4 
HOME RUN8-Palmer, Texas, 7; Belle, Pittsburgh 6, Atlanta 2, 11 innings Kansas City 4, Detro~ 3, 1 0 Innings 
HOME RUNS-MaWilllams, San

Clevaland, 7; Snow, California, 6; Gonzalez, Texas, Florida 4, Cincinnati 3 
Cleveland at Seattle, (n) Francisco, 6; DBell, San Diego, 5; LWalker, Montreal,
6; GriffeyJr, Seattle, 6; o-, Detroit, 6; Carter, Houston 9, St. Louis 2 Boston at Oakland, (n) 
5; Kruk, Philadelphia, 5; Bonds, San Francisco, 5; 11Toronto, 6. 
are tiad with 4. 

Colorado 11, Chicago 2 New York at California, (n) 
STOLEN BASEs-curtis, California, 12; Lofton, Montreal at San Diego, (n) 
Wedneaday•a Gamea STOLEN BASEs-EYoung, Colorado,
Cleveland, 11; RHenderson, Oakland, 9; Wohnson, Wedneeday'e Game• Boston (Viola 3-1) at Oakland (Welch 2-1), 3:15 
1 0; Dlewis, San Francisco, 9; ACole, Colorado, 9;

Chicago, 6; Hamilton, Milwaukee, 5; RAJornar, Florida (Hammond 0-3) at Atlanta (Gia'line 3-o), 
p.m. Nixon, Atlanta, 9; Dykstra, Philadelphia, 8; Gwynn,
Toronto, 5; Palmelro, Texas, 5; Felder, Seattle, 5; 7:40p.m. Kansas City (Gardn..-1-1) a!Toronto (Brow o-o), 
San Diego, 8; Carr, Rorida, 7.

Molitor, Toronto, 5. Pittsburgh (Otto 1-1) at Cincinnati (Pugh 1-1 ), 7:35p.m. PITCHING (3 Decisions)-Burkett, San
PITCHING (3 Declslons)-McDowall, Chicago, 7:35p.m. Minnesota (Erickson 0-2) at Baltimore (Rhodes 
Francisco, 5·0, 1.000, 2.62; JJones, Montreal, 4-o,5-o, 1.000, 4.33; Wells, Detroit, 3-o, 1.000, 1.90; 

Chicago (Guzman 3-1) at Houston (Swindell 3-0·1), 7:35p.m. 1.000, 3.57; Arocha, St. louis, 3-0, 1.000, 1.66;
Sanderson, CaJHomia, 3-o, 1.000, 3.00; lelbrandt, 1), 8:05 p.m. Milwaukee (Eidrad 3·1) at Chicago (McCaskill 1­
Minor, Pittsburgh, 3-o, 1.000, 1.35; Harkey, Chicago, 

Texas, 3-o, 1.000, 2.42; Deshaies, Minnesota, 4·1, St. Louis (Osborne 1-o) at Colorado (Ruffin 1·1), .800, 2.36; 7 ..-e tiad with 750. 
3), 8:05p.m. 3-0, 1.000, 1.77; Hill, Montreal, 3-0, 1.000, 1.41; 
Gla'line, Atlanta, 3-o, 1.000, 3.37. 

9:05p.m. Detroit (Moore 2·1) at Texas (Brown 2·1), 8:35 
STRIKEOUTs-RJohnson, Seattle, 44; Philadelphia (Schilling 3-1) at San Diego p.m. Clemens, Boston, 29; Appler, Kansas City, 25; STRIKEOUTS-Smoltz, Atlanta, 35; (Gr.Harris1-3), 10:05 p.m. Cleveland (Mutts 1-1) at Seattle (Hanson 2-o), 
Drabek, Houston, 31; Armstrong, Florida, 30; Rljo,

Dopson, Boston, 25; Boslo, Seattle, 25; Eldrad, Cincinnati, 30; TGreene, Philadelphia, 24; Burkett,
Montreal (D.Martinez 1·3) at los Angeles 10:05p.m. Milwaukee, 23; Fernandez, Chicago, 23; Langston; (Astaclo 0·2), 1 0:35 p.m. New York (Abbott 1-3) at California (Langston 2­
San Francisco, 23; GMaddux, Atlanta, 23. 

CaJHomla, 23. New York (Tanane 2-o) at San Francisco SAVES-OWard, Toronto, 8; Montgomery,
0), 10:05 p.m. SAVES-Stanton, Atlanta, 6; leSmith, 
St. Louis, 8; Beck, San Francisco, 7; MIWilllams,(Wilson 0·2), 10:35 p.m. Thuradoy'e Gomeo 

Kansas City, 5; Aguilera, Minnesota, 5; Henry, Thuradoy'o Gomeo Kansas City at Toronto, 12:35 p.m. Milwaukee, 4; Olson, Baltimore, 4; Henneman, 
Philadelphia, 7; Harvey, Florida, 6; Myers, Chicago, 
6; Rojas, Montraal, 5; Belinda, Pittsburgh, 5.

St. Louis at Colorado, 3:05 p.m. Milwaukee at Chicago, 1 :35 p.m. 
Detroit, 4; Farr, New York, 4; Henke, Texas, 4. Philadelphia at San Dlago, 4:05 p.m. Minnesota at Baltimore, 7:35 p.m. New York Ill San Francisco, 4:05 p.m. Detroit at Texas, 8:35 p.m. Pittsburgh at Cincinnati, 7:35 p.m. Only gemes scheduled Notional L..gue FOOTBALL Florida at Atlanta, 7:40 p.m. HOUSTON ASTR08-Piaced Steve Notional Football League Chicago at Houston, 8:05 p.m. Finley, outfielder, on the 15-day disablad list. CHICAGO BEARS-Agreed to terms 
SAN DIEGO PADREs-Actlvatad Kurt with Shane Metthews, quarterback. Stillwell, Infielder, from the 15-day disabled list. CINCINNATI BENGALS-Signed Allen Placed Phil Plantler, outfielder, on the 15-day DeGraffenreld, wide recai-; Marl< Staten, offensive 
dlsablad list retroactive to April 28. 
lineman; Brad Lebo, quarterback; Ron Williams and Mike Faulkerson, running backs; Clarence Se'liillan,

Backman, Infielder, from the 15-day dlsablad list. BASKETBALL
BASEBALL 
Opllor>ad Brat Boor>a, second baseman, to Calgary of Notional B..katboll Aaaoclotlon wide receiver; David Frisch, tight end; Artis Ford, the Pacific Coaat League. Claimed Steva Parris, NBA-Flned Vlede Dlvac, Los Angeles defensive ar>d; Darius Hadley, defensive back; Brian
American League 
KANSAS CITY ROYALs-Recalled 
pitcher, off waivers from the Los Angeles Dodgers Lakers center, $5,000, for a flagrant foul against Piotrowski, offensive tackle; and Brad Smith, GaryRico Rossy, Infielder, and Dennis Rasmussen, and assigned him to Jacksonville of the South..-n Seattle's Nate McMillan on April 23. Cesper, and Karmealeyah McGill, linebackers.
p~cher, from Omaha of the American Association. 
DENVER BRONCOS-Fired Reed

League. United Stat.. Boaketball l.aogua Johnson, personnel director. Announced thePlaced Frank DlPino, pilchar, on the 15-day disablad 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Placed AI DAYTONA HOOTERS-Namad Warren Leiter, pitcher, on the 15-da.y disabled list. Called up Walk director of marketing. resignation ol Bobby Marks, scout. Announced the Scott Brow, p~cher, from Knoxville of the Southern WESTCHESTER STALLIONS-Signed retirement of Hugh Davldaon, scout. League. Chris Washburn, center. 
list. 
GREEN BAY PACKERs--signed Steve 


-----------------------~-~-~-~--------------------------------------~----,­
page 22 The Observer Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
Bulls, Blazers hope to regain championship form 
-
(AP) -The Chicago Bulls and 
Portland Trail Blazers, who didn't have 
the kind of regular seasons they had 
last year when both made the NBA Fi­
nals, are prepared to show that they 
can be contenders again. 
The Bulls won 57 games -a 10­
game decline from a year ago when 
they went on to win their second 
consecutive NBA title. 
"We haven't been the same team we were last year, but we still had a successful season," Scottie Pippen said. "We still have the playoffs." 
Chicago still won the Central Division and is second-seeded in the Eastern Conference playoffs, which begin with four games Thursday. The Bulls open on Friday night at home against Atlanta. 
"We're glad the regular season is over and done with so we can get down to the business of the playoffs," Michael Jordan said. "Now the real fun begins. We have things we want to prove in the playoffs that we weren't able to prove in the regular season." 
Thursday's games have San Antonio at Portland and the Los Angeles Clippers in the Western Conference and Charlotte at Boston and New Jersey at Cleveland in the East. 
In addition to Atlanta-Chicago, Friday's games have Indiana at New York, the Los Angeles Lakers at Phoenix and Utah at Seattle. 
Portland's 51-31 mark was six games worse than last season, when it owned the NBA's second-best record behind Chicago. 
Buck Williams said the Blazers' performance wasn't bad considering injuries that had their opening-night lineup intact for just 29 games and a midseason sex scandal involving three players. 
"It took awhile, but that's part of being a professional athlete," Williams said. "You have to go out there and play under different circumstances. Considering the adversity and distractions we had with the Salt Lake City situation and the injuries, I thought we had a very fine season." 
All-Star Clyde Drexler missed 33 games with injuries -four more than his nine previous seasons with Portland combined. The Blazers' leading scorer sat out the last four games, and his status for the playoffs is still 
There's more to temporary work than just money ... but it's not a had place to start. 
The Choice for Staffing is 
looking for bright, professional, 
enthusiastic, college students 
and grads who are interested in 
working at banks, accounting 
firms, law firms and consulting 
companies. 

Temporary work provides an excellent opportunity to experience the wide variety of corporate environments in Chicago. Receive skill development for automated offices, bridge the gap between school and first time career placement, and ... make money. 
From marketing projects to setting up spreadsheets, to word processing, we have the assignments. Call (3 12) 3 72­4500 for more information about our benefit package (including paid lunch and holidays). 
THE 

CHOICE 
For Staffing 
====INC~ 

undetermined. 

"Until we know anything further, the team's just going to make preparations like I'm not going to be there," Drexler said. "That's the thought process going into this." 
But his teammates have demonstrated they can play well without-him. The Blazers were 21-12 without Drexler and 30-19 with him. 
"We've had a very up and down year, and that's probably the reason people haven't talked about us much," coach Rick Adelman said. "People perceived that we couldn't win without Clyde. But in our locker room, the guys' perception is that somebody's going to have to play very well to beat us, and we have a lot left to prove." 
New Jersey appeared headed for the fourth seed in the East before Drazen Petrovic, Chris Dudley and Sam Bowie joined Kenny Anderson on the sidelines with injuries. The Nets fell to sixth when they lost 10 of their last 11 games. 
Cleveland also has been bothered by injuries, but won 11 of its last 12 games and secured the third seed. Brad Daugherty missed two of the last three games because of a sore knee, and Larry Nance missed the final two because of a broken left index finger. 
Both are expected to play in Thursday's playoff opener at Richfield, Ohio. 
"If it was on my right hand, it would have made a big difference, even though I use my left hand a lot," Nance said. "I've never pl~yed with a b~oke~ AP File Photo finger ?efore, but I d ha~e to thmk It Bill Cartwright (24) and the Bulls begin their quest for a third straight NBA title Friday against 
wouldn t bother me much. Atlanta. 
Happy 2ls~ Megan! 
Love, Mom & Dad, Rachel, Sarah, Bridget and Erin. 
Sunday, May 2 at 8:00p.m. Club Eastbrook . Grand Rapids, Ml Call C616) 248-CLUB for more information ONLY 90 MILES FROM S. BEND! 
Happy 21st Birthday Kathy Connors! Hope it's a blow out! Whoa Baby! 
Love Meaghan & Carla 

Clothing & Usable Item 
Drive 
The St. Vincent De Paul Society 
AA' 

C I othings, Furniture, 
Appliances,  &  Other  
Usable  Items.  
ALL  Residence  Halls  


Monday, 1'lay 3 
~us
•
MNISW 
Monday, May 10 Monday, May 17 
Campus Ministry, 631-5242 & 
The St. Vincent De Paul Society, 234-6000 

-----~-----~~---~-~~ 
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 The Observer 
page 23 

Exceeding Expectations 


jeffrey Abbot Scott Ecker ]on Oleksyk Matthew Amann Step/1en Egan joseph Quinn joseph Ashby Bernard Grzelak Robert Reilly Ruth Borremeo Rhonda Jackson Russell Singer Matthew Cenedella Keith Kucinski jeremy Smith Michael Cipriano ]enn,fer Kulbieda Angela Smith Paul Darno joseph Laur Adrienne Speyer Lewis Derbes Cory Lawrence Kimberlee Steel joseph Desantis joseph Maida Christopher Sukow Andrew Doyle Michael 0 'Brien Kenneth Wincko 
The above professionals are joining our offices in Atlanta, Baltimore, Chicago, Cincinnati, Detroit, Hartford, Los Angeles, Milwaukee, New Orleans, 
Deloitte & 

New York, Orange County, Parsippany, Pittsburgh, Richmonc/, and San Francisco. 
Touche 

Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 
We Listen • We Deliver. 
Deloitte Touche Tohrnatsu International 
Dcloitte fl Touche is an equal opportunity finn. We recntit, employ, train, compensate, aml promote~ without regard to race, creecl, color, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or irrelevant ltanclicaps. 
.. 
page 24 The Observer Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
Irish 
continued from page 32 
Grimm led off the inning with a double and Jason York singled him home. The winning run came an inning later when Jack· Holley tripled and then scored on an error by Layson. 
Valparaiso starter Jeff Brooks (2-5) was the winner as the pitcher threw two-hit complete game and struck out three. Failla and Danapilis were the only Irish batters to notch hits off Brooks. 
Valparaiso coach Paul Twenge was happy with the win. 
"What I think is that a lot of things have happened over the course of the year which has made us what you saw tonight in the first game. In the second game, we were back to making the mistakes we've made all year. 
"We're in a situation where we need to get as many wins as possible. This will help us," admitted Twenge. 
In the nightcap, the Irish grabbed the extra-inning win in the 11th when Craig DeSensi singled home Chris Michalak from third to break the 5-5 tie. 
"I went up there looking for a fastball and got it, " said De­Sensi of his last at-bat. 
The game winning run was set up when Michalak, the Irish pitcher who played left field in the game, bunted and reached first on a fielder's choice. Failla singled and them the pair exe­cuted a perfect double steal to set up DeSensi's hit. 
"You had to at that point," said Murphy. "If not and you play cautious, I don't think good things are going to happen for us." 
The extra innings were brought on by a 4-4 tie at the end of the regular seven in­nings. Valparaiso was the first to break the tie in the tenth with an RBI triple by York, but the Irish evened things up again in the bottom of that in­ning. After Tom Haddan loaded the bases with walks to Layson, DeSensi and Mark Mapes, Matt Haas lifted a fly ball into short left field and Layson beat the throw home. 
Pitcher Tom Price (7-2) was a key in the extra innings giving up only four hits and one walk in five innings for the win while controlling the Crusader attack with six strikeouts. A.J. Jones and Tim Kraus also pitched for the Irish in the game. 
Both teams scored a single run in the second and two runs in the third. DeSensi scored in the second on a Mapes' sacri­fice who also drove in Layson in the next inning on an infield single. Topham scored the final inning of that inning on an in­field hit Bob Lisanti. 
For Valparaiso, Steve Muller crossed the plate in the second while Mike Parker and Rick O'Connor scored on sacrifices. The sacrifice was the offensive weapon for Valparaiso in the game as the Crusaders tied an NCAA record of six sacrifices in a single game. 
The Crusaders picked up their fourth run in the fourth when O'Connor brought in Jeff Raymond on yet another sacri­fice. On the other hand, the Irish scored in the sixth when a Failla double brought pinch­runner Robbie Birk home. 
Notre Dame has little time to dwell on yesterday's Joss as the Sycamores of Indiana State come to Coveleski for a 3 p.m. 
game, Indiana comes in on Thursday for a 3 p.m. game and Detroit-Mercy visits the Cove over the weekend. 
Yesterday's games saw some including senior Chris Michalak playing different positions to help compensate for the in­juries. The pitcher came in as a pinch hitter in the ninth for Danapilis. Although he had only two career plate appearances, Michalak was intentionally walked to load the bases and to get to Failla who is hitting .327. Michalak stayed in the game in left field. 
The baseball team signed two recruits for next year in Darin Schmalz and Bill Scholl. Schmalz went 6-2 in his junior season at Barrington (Ill.) High School with a 2.10 ERA and 63 strikeouts in 60 innings. So far this year, he is 4-0 with a 1.60 ERA. Scholl is an infielder who hit .315 with 18 RBis for Athens (Ohio) Hjgh School. 
The Irish have put in a bid to host an NCAA Regional at Cov­eleski Stadium this year. The NCAA has yet to make a deci­sion on the matter. 
Danapilis is one of the quarter finalists for the Smith Player of the Year Award in the designated hitter/utility/athlete category. The Notre Dame right fielder is one of two chosen as a quarter finalist from that cate­gory. 
A third of the award is based on fan voting. Irish fans can vote for Danapilis by calling 1­900-976-VOTE (99 cents per call) before June 13. 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports lnlornation Senior Eric Danapilis left Tuesday's game with a concussion after being hit by a pitch. 
SPORTS BREIFS 

nterhall Lacrosse: Grace won its second consecutive championship with a 10-4 win over Flanner. Bry~n Lanahan led Grace with three goals, while Mike McMahon, Chr1s Rosen and Jeff Tadeo each added a pair. Casey McGee scored the other goal. Grace has not lost a game in the last two seasons. 
Book~tore Basketball: The following awardees must claim their pnzes by May 2 at 1125 Flanner or see a commissioner: S. Clar. 0. Smith, R. Toohey, B. Corbett, N. Preservati, R. Matthys, L. Knapp, M. Zataveski, B. Hamilton, B. Taylor, R. Wynn and L. Moore. The ~ugby Club is sponsoring a leather goods sale this week in the 0 Hara Room on the 1st floor of LaFortune. Proceeds will benefit Todd Broski's medical costs. 
RecSports will be holding an in-line skating clinic for beginners on April 2.8 at 4:30 p.m. in the parking lot south of the JACC. Sign up early m the RecSports office as there is limited availability. Equipment is provided and there is no cost. 
COOPERS AND LYBRAND 
congratulates the Notre Dame graduating Class of 1993 and is proud to welcome the following 
ATLANTA Shannon Shea 
BOSTON Christopher Bell Matthew Berger David Indelicato Amy McAuliffe 
CHICAGO Stephen Amer William Corrello Andrea Pietraszewski Todd Sluzas 
CLEVELAND Gina Moore 
graduates who will be joining our Firm: 
LOS ANGELES 
Kelly Fitzpatrick 
Joshua Weiser 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Andrew Curoe 
David Iverson 
PHILADELPHIA Michael Loungo Brian Markley 
PRINCETON Elizabeth Seymour RICHMOND Jennifer Rolph 
SAN FRANCISCO Paul Webb 
SANJUAN Jose Depool,Figueroa 
SEATTLE Joseph Calacat 
SOUTH BEND Edward Foley Jennifer Miller 

-----------~----~ ----~--~-------­
.f \. l:

·,, :~ ."' .. ~ '.'~~.:,~rr~,,J 
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 The Observer page 25 
Hershiser's complete game wins for Dodgers 
NEW YORK (AP) -Orel Hershiser Mulholland (2-3) was the loser. majors. pitched a three-hitter and the Los Rick Sutcliffe (2-2) was roughed up Angeles Dodgers got three unearned Rockies 11, Cubs 2 for eight runs on 12 hits and six walks runs in the eighth inning as they beat DENVER -Andres Galarraga hit a in 4 2-3 innings. the New York Mets 4-1 Tuesday two-run homer to highlight a six-run afternoon. fourth inning and Butch Henry pitched Blue Jays 4, Rangers 3 
Dwight Gooden (2-3) allowed only a complete game, leading the Colorado TORONTO -Two nights ago, Jack two hits in eight innings, but one of Rockies past the Chicago Cubs 11-2 Morris was telling anyone within them was a second-inning home run Tuesday night. listening distance that Pat Hentgen to rookie catcher Mike Piazza. The Galarraga's 464-foot shot to right­was starting to come around. Dodgers rallied in the eighth on center field, on the first pitch from Hentgen pitched Tuesday night as Hershiser's bloop RBI single and a reliever Jose Bautista, capped the well as Morris promised, holding two-run error by Bobby Bonilla on highest-scoring inning in the Texas to three hits for eight innings as Darryl Strawberry's bases-loaded line expansion team's short history. the Toronto Blue Jays won 4-3 for drive. White Sox 9, Orioles 4 their fourth straight victory. 
Hershiser (3-2), pitching his first CHICAGO -Jack McDowell became Mter losing the fifth starter's spot to complete game since Aug. 2, 1992, got the American League's first five-game AI Leiter with a so-so spring training, the Dodgers their only win on a now­winner and Frank Thomas drove in Hentgen rejoined the rotation when concluded seven-game road trip. four runs, sending the Chicago White Dave Stewart went on the disabled 
Sox past the Baltimore Orioles 9-4 list. Giants 6, Phillies 3 Tuesday night. He hasn't looked back, winning his 
PHILADELPHIA -John Burkett Thomas, who drove in three runs last three starts and dropping his ERA became-the major leagues' first five­Monday against Baltimore, had three to 2.20, best among the Toronto game winner and San Francisco of Chicago's 18 hits. Lance Johnson starters. snapped Philadelphia's four-game win­had four hits and Joey Cora added "I moved my fastball in and out and ning streak. three hits and scored four runs. stayed away from the walks," Hentgen 
The Giants opened a 6-0 lead behind Baltimore lost for the sixth time in said. "I put some pitches out of the a home run by Matt Williams, a two­seven games. zone and the just popped them up." run double by Will Clark and a two­McDowell (5-0) has won 12 straight Hentgen (3-1) gave up two runs, both run triple by Barry Bonds. starts in April. He went 7 2-3 innings on Dean P.almer's homer in the second 
AP File Photo Burkett (5-0) struck out six and and gave up four runs on nine hits, inning. He walked none and struck out Orel Hershiser's 3-2 win over the Mets Tuesday was didn't walk a batter in 7 1-.3 in.nings. walking one and striking out one. He four. the Dodgers' only win on their seven game road trip. Rod Beck struck out the side m the joined San Francisco's John Burkett, 
ninth for his seventh save. Terry also 5-0, as the top winners in the Yankees 5, Angels 0 


COMPACT DISCS I CASS£TJ£S I vI [)(()S I 
-. -----------------­
1 I 
~ :$2 DQb~~fl~YI OFF! : 
~~ any 
I 

ANAHEIM, Calif. -J.T. Snow, Tim Salmon, Damion Easley ... meet Jimmy Key. 
The California Angels, who have surprised the American League with the run production of their young players in the past few weeks, were 
ND LACROSSE 
GOOD LUCK SATURDAY! 
held to one hit by Key in the New York Yankees' 5-0 victory Tuesday night. The Angels had their six-game winning streak stopped. Mike Gallego,
Now it's your turn to beat 
meanwhile,hit two homers in a game for the first time in his major league 
MSU at home! career and Bernie Williams and Danny Tartabull also. connected in New York's third straight win. 
See you in College Park! 
"I haven't seen a lot of those guys before, but I just tried to pitch normal for me," Key said. "They weren'tLove ya, hitting my pitches tonight. That doesn't mean they can't hit them, but
Nancy & Jill 
tonight they weren't." 

AUU I 0 ACCI SSOI{ I L ~~ I CAI~HY I NG CASts I IIOMl s TONA(;[_ I 8 I------------------~~ 
:$2 DQ~~~/j~~ OFF! :~ 
any ~
1 
I 

U I I 
-. Compact Disc 
I 
VI' 
or

WI-, 
0::
ol Cassette VI' in the music I
VII 
u 
WI department
ul I 
4(1 
LIMIT

I 
01 ON£ ITEM PER COUPON a• SALE ITEMS EXCUX>ED 
:::ll 
< 
THANK YOU STUDENTS 
To Show you our Appreciation For Your Continued Support-The Notre Dame Bookstore and 
Compact Disc :~ 
lVI 
In
or 
lVI 
I'-.
Cassette 
I 
I)> 
lVI VI 
in the music In 
department 1-i 
·~ 
LIMIT 1 -i 00[ ITEM PERC~ I~ 
lVI 
SALE I TEMS EXCLUDED 1 ~-----------------------.......... 
< 
0 
0

1/l One Item WHR Records Are Offering For Good One ~ 
0 
VI 

0 
w Per Coupon! One Day Only $2.00 Off All Day Only! > Cassettes and Compact Discs c )> With Coupon I------------------,-0 
~ ~· $-2 ooiiAilsoi=i=i $2 DOLLARS OFF! I 
~ I GOOD 4 ~9 Q(!OD 4 211 U I )lo
93 ONLYI ONLYI 0 
~~ any Thursday, April 29th 1993 any n (') 
I 

VII 
~: Compact Disc Compact Disc ~ 
ul The Hammes 
;c 

-.1 or or 0 
VI : NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Cassette Cassette 
u, 
"on the campus" 
I

~I in the music I in the music 
01 
Open Monday -Saturday
~~ 1 department department 
u LIMIT 9 a.m. -5 p.m. LIMIT
<• 
a.. t <:WE I TEM P[R COUPON <:WE I l[M P[R COJfJOO ~1 SALE ITEMS EXCLUDED SALE ITEMS [XCLUOEO 


ul ---------------------------------------------­
-. coMPAC r n 1sc~ I CAS5r r rrs I vtnrw; I AUOIO ACCtssoHJt') I CAIWYING CASL5 I uoMI ~rORAGr I 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek . 
Goalie Ryan Jewell (40) and defenseman Mike Iorio (35) anchor a tough Irish defense. 
-~---------~-----------------------­
Wednesday, April 28 , 1993
The Observer 
MSU 

continued from page 32 
to put the ball in the net as a result of a lot of transition opportunities. "Their attack is a good group of finishers who we're going to have to keep from getting open in the tran­sition game," Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
The key, as it has been in many Irish games, will be how the Irish midlielders handle the pressure and up-tempo game that the Spartans love to play. The starting line of freshman Hob Tobin and juniors Billy Ahmuty and Willie Sutton will have to have a strong game against the quick Spartan mid­dies. Additional help will come from senior Ed Lamb and sophomores Marc Pasquale and 
Kevin Lynyak. 

"Michigan State's midfield 
causes a lot of problems be­
cause they initiate a lot of tran­
sition. They like to run and gun 
and get it up and down the field 
which is the type of game we 
need to stay out of," Corrigan 
noted. "We're going to have to 
control the tempo and slow the 
game down. When we've done 
it, we've done it well and forced 
teams to play at our speed." 

As for Notre Dame, their of­
fense will attempt to exploit a 
young Spartan defense that will try to hinder their offense with a variety of defensive schemes. "I expect them to mix it up by playing some zone, man, and shutting off Randy (Colley)," said Corrigan. 
The combination of juniors CoJley, Robbie Snyder, Mark Hexamer, and freshman Kevin Mahoney will have to adjust quickly and often, and not allow the Spartans to grind the Irish attack to a halt. "We'll have to be patient on offense, move the ball, then take what's there. I think we're better equipped to deal with it than we have been," Corrigan said. 
Because this is ~uch a big 
game and the stakes are so 
high. there is always the prob­
lem of coming out too high and playing poorly as a result of be­ing on an emotional roller­coaster. But Corrigan believes the Irish are in the right frame of mind heading into the con­test. "We have a whole ap­proach to the game. It isn't a result-oriented one, it's pro­cess-oriented. What we have to do is be aggressive and domi­nate ground balls, play good defense, and keep the game 
from becoming run and gun." 

The fact that Notre Dame 
hasn't won at Michigan State in 
eight years and that they're fac­
ing a hot team doesn't faze 
Corrigan. "We're not going to 
sit back. We have a job to do 
and we know how to do it, so 
we're just going to go after the 
win." 

FREE 
IN·UNE SKATING CUNIC 
~N: ~DNESDAYAPRRZ8 
FROM 4:30 TO 6:30 P.M. 
~BE: PARKING LOT SOUTH OF THE JACC 
WHY: TO TEACH FIRST·TIMERS 
r 
AND BEGINNERS HOW TO SKATE 
AVAILABILITY IS LIMITED SO SIGN-UP EARLY IN THE REC.SPORTS OFFICE. 
ALL EQUIPMENT IS PROVIDED. 
Lax 
continued from page 32 
be a quality program. 
By beating Georgetown and Hobart, the Irish have sent a message to the rest of the coun­try that Notre Dame lacrosse is a program to be respected and feared. No team should ever look at their schedule, see Notre Dame, and chalk up the game as a sure win. 
At the beginning of the year. 
the Irish went unranked in the 
preseason poll, but after their 
impressive victories, and 8-0 
start, the Irish were finally 
awarded their due respect. 
"We went out on the road and 
imposed our wiii on other 
teams and dominated others. 
We just didn't allow them to get 
into their game," Corrigan 
noted. 
Usually Notre Dame's only 
path into the NCAA tournament 
would be via the Midwest re­
gion's automatic bid. But this 
year, the Irish, before their two 
losses, threatened to become 
the first team out of the Mid­
west to qualify for the tourna­
ment on their own merit. 
The Irish stand only one win away from gaining entry into the tournament, and would prove to be a difficult game for whomever they play. As the rankings stand right now, that means Notre Dame would faceoff against either Brown, Johns Hopkins, or Hofstra. In the past, those teams would be happy to play the Irish because it would be an easy way into the quarterfinals. 

But this year, a game against the Irish would promise to be one fought tooth and nail. Cor­rigan and the entire team now have the confidence that they could go on the road and beat any of the teams they face. "Our goal this year is to return to the NCAA's and win games. We know we can beat any of those teams," said Corrigan. 
The attitude that "it doesn't 
matter who we play, we can 
win", is a huge departure from 
the past goals of just making 
the NCAA's. This only exempli­
fies how far Notre Dame 
lacrosse has come, and how far 
it will go in the future. The 
kind of season the Irish have 
enjoyed so far can only help the 
program. By gaining the re­
spect of their lacrosse peers, 
the Irish will play more top 
echelon teams and recruit more 
All-Americans. In the future, 
Notre Dame will be mentioned 
in the same breath as the 
Hopkins' and Princeton's, while 
becoming· a fixture in future 
NCAA tournaments. 

\)1\ t~\\y\\% Trouble-free connections so you
U.P.S. 

won't have a
SERVICE DAILY 
631-6714 


1fie Country 


LOWEST
RATES
CAg~US 

8W22 
so<t 
% 
arvester 
Mond"oy tfuu 'frUiay 12 to 5 Saturtfay 11 to 2 ~e.rnfed :Hours 'During 'finals Lower Levd of La'Fortune 
off each box with this ad 
$ 100.00 free Insurance! 


LAST THREE DAYS LEATHER GOODS 50°/o--70o/o OFF 
•Bookbags 
• Travel Bags • Brief Cases 

• 
Portfolios •Handbags •Wallets 


• and Much More 

THIS WEEK ONLY 

,.L..J,,L.rJtion: O'Hara Room ...LaFortune 
9:30 a.m....4:00 p.m. Sponsored by 
Notre Dame Rugby Football Club for Todd Broski Fund 

I• I ,. .._ ' •• \ t ! . • 
Wednesday, April 28, 1993 The Observer page 27 
The Equestrian Club finished out its season with strong per­formances at the Regional and Zone competitions a few weeks ago. 
Notre Dame had its first ever regional champion at the April 10 event when Megan Turpin 
won the novice fences 
competition. Julie Barry also ,0 <J Bl'''"' . ,~,, qualified for the Zone show at ~"' The Rugby Club fmi$~~(}. up Purdue in the Advanced walk~ the season 10-3 against"college trot-cantor competition. ...·:. teams, including a three'-gatne 


On April17 at Purdue, Turpin ;sweep of Ball State this spring. placed fourth in her event while Also thiS spring, the club Wa.$ ~.. Barry placed seventh in her 3 agains~ rnen'~teams. event~ .: ··::·:;.:·=:=,;~;~:~f:~~J~~l~~~lt~~~fFt:i::~·:·~;;:?: 
The No~~ Dame Rugby CI~6 finish(:}d up its season la!!;t weekend with home games against the Chicago Blaze. a men's club frol):l the South Side 
of the Chicago. '''"· .. , The A side lost toJhe Bl{lze, but the-B and C sides won their game~ in f1lpse contests. 

MARDI GRAS HAPPY B-DAY 
FROM NEW ORLEANS 
• BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • 
~Fe» lAt. 
<(  
C/)  
CY. <( u t:i:i 0 0  G  NOTREDAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION  
::J  
(I) •  NIENIBERS  
C/)  


!w!~~~~
iris is not a check ~re hours shown. For ~~ase. Valid when is valid on'r-( dunn~isCOunt coupon per~rsed by customer on'r-(\ u~~;deS rnanoger ande~ EXPires 5/1/93. s1Q11 Exctudes adVertiSed soectO . 
V) 
~ <( • 100% FINANCING 
V) 
OAVAIWII! CY. NO __.,.. DOWN • <( 
u 
IEXTDIDED 
t:i:i SERVICE 0 CONTRAa
0 
::J Available On Most Modelsl 
(I) 
• OTHER RATES AND TERMS TO 60 MONTHS ALSO AVAILABLE ' ' ~ • WITH APPROVED CREDIT ON SELECTED MODELS ~ 
*=!!~~U~!;F 
~ 124 E. IRELAND~ 
~ (US 31 & IRELAND. ll-iE OLD BRfTE WAY) ---< 
gS001H BEND ·(219) 299-1444 ~ 
~ (Telephone No. cor nacted c::LttrQ sc:»a, orty) r;:; 
::J Budget sells rental fleet cars. pre-owned cars and quality trade-ins. (/)
Cil • 
• BUDG8 CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDG8 CAR SALES 
TOP DOLLAR CD FORYOUR § 
TRADE-IN~ 
FltANQ RATES AS LOW AS ~ 
%*'£

.0• APR r;:;
(/) 

YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE 21 TO ENJOY 
CD 
c 
0 
G) 
~ ~ 
(/) 
' ~ 
~ 
CD 
c 
0 
G) 
m 
-i 
0 
~ 
;;v 
(/) 
' ~ 
m 
(/) 
• 
CD 
c 
0 
• 


Crew teams end season on a high note 

The UbseJVer/Sean Farnan The Notre Dame men's and women's crew teams reached the finals Midwest Rowing Championships. 
Varsity boats reach finals at Midwest Championships 
By JENNY MARTEN  All  of  the  varsity  boats with a time of7.15.02.  
Associate Sports Editor  reached the finals in their re­In the women's open 4 finals,  
spective events while the novice Notre Dame's boat placed third  
The  Notre  Dame  Rowing  boats also did well. behind the two Wisconsin  

teams were busy this weekend competing at the Midwest Row­ing Championships to conclude In the women's lightweight 8 the 1992-1993 season. finals, Notre Dame's boat fin­
ished in second behind Kansas 
Some people think the Honor Code doesn't work at Notre Dame. Some other people are no longer at Notre Dame. 
HOUJ HRHY COU1G( G"RRDURUS CRH GH IHTO RTOYOTR? 
)' 
\ 
teams with a time of 7.40.4. The race was extremely close with the Irish finishing just 2.6 second behind the first-place boat. 
On the men's side, Notre Dame placed fifth in the men's lightweight 8 finals with a time of 6.07.6. Purdue, Ohio State, St. Thomas and Washington finished ahead of the Irish. 
In the men's open 4 finals, the Irish also placed fifth with a time of 6.45.8 behind the two Wisconsin boats, Minnesota and Ohio State. 
The four novice boats did well, but did not make it into the fmals in any of their races. One men's boat and one women's boat each made it to the consolation heat, but not the finals. 

WITH THE TOYOTA  See? College was worth it Your degree is your key to the Toyota you've always  
CLASS Of 'IJ3 DETAIL FIHAHCIHG PliOGliAH~  wanted. If you're a graduate of a four­ 
JUST ABOUT ALL OF THEM.  year college, graduate school or regis­tered nursing program, Toyota has  

special finance rates for you. Rates with no money down. And a 90-day deferred payment* What's more, the Toyota Retail Financing Program is available a year after and up to six months before you actually graduate. And you can finance any new Toyota -the Paseo shown here, or aCorolla, Tercel, 4x4, whatever moves you. Should you want to lease your new Toyota, 
an attractive leasing program is also available. For complete information and qualification requirements, as well as the location of your nearest Toyota dealer, just calll-800-~0ILEGE. The car or truck ofyour dreams, and financing you won't lose sleep over. Bet you can really get into that 
See Your Local Toyota Dealer. 
TOYOTA~ 
MOTOR CREDIT CORPORATION 
"lim¥ wlral,. dofor_.. 
~TOYOTA 


--~----~---------~-----~­
"l' '" -"' • _t
The Observer • I ' "' ' 
page 28 Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
ALL-CAMPUS PICNIC Saturday, May 1, 1993 Stepan Field 
11:00 a.m.· 1:30 p.m. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------, 

SENIORS! Be sure to check 
in at the Alumni 
Hospitality Table for your 
Free Gift. 

0FF·CAMPUS STUDENTS! Pick 
up Free Meal Tickets at the 
Alumni Hospitality Table. 

Representatives from Alumni Clubs throughout the U.S. will be there. Be sure to meet the Rep from your area. 

L-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
In case of rain, the picnic will be held inside the dining halls. 


Wednesday, April 28, 1993 The Observer page 29 
Accident didn't injure Shoemaker's will to win 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) ~ Right now, Bill Shoemaker has horse racing on his mind, not lawsuits. 
Shoemaker, the Hall of Fame rider who has been con­fined to a wheelchair since an auto accident April 8, 1991, is making his first trip to the Ken­tucky Derby as a trainer. 
And. he is trying t9 ignore the article in Sports Illustrated that said his lawsuits against the state of California, where the accident occurred, have transformed him "from a tragic, sympathetic figure into a target of public condemna­tion." 
''I'm not thinking about it," Shoemaker said Tuesday in a conference call from his barn at Hollywood Park. "I'm ·going to Churchill Downs to try to win a horse race. I'm not worried about all that other stuff. That comes later on. 
Shoemaker trains the lightly raced Diazo, owned by Allen Paulson. Diazo was fifth in the Arkansas Derby on April 17 after winning his previous two starts, allowance and maiden races at Santa Anita. 
"I'm going to be happy to be there. I haven't been there in a while," Shoemaker said. "The last time I was there I think I rode in the Derby." 
That would have been in 1988, when he rode Lively One to a 12th-place finish, two years after becoming the oldest jockey, at 54, to win the Derby, on Ferdinand. He is now 61. 
"The main thing I'm trying to do now is to win the Derby. That's why I'm going back there," he said. "It looks like there are six or seven. different horses that could win it. Prairie Bayou is the favorite, and he probably should be. He looks like the horse to beat to me." 
Shoemaker, a quadriplegic, returned to the racetrack as a trainer less than six months after his accident and now has about 25 horses in training. 
"You never knew when something like this is going to happen," Shoemaker said;, "You get a bunch of 2-year-olds and you never know how 

Mishawaka Monitor 
The Mishawaka Monitor is looking for a good Display Ad Salesperson. 
We are an exciting new NEWS­paper--NOT a shopper. 
We carry AP, and local news cover­age for eastern St. Joseph county. 
If you are interested in this, or in writing for us, please call us immedi­ately at 258-0121. 
George Heiner, Publisher 
Softball 
continued from page 32 
hamson. "She kept us off bal­ance." 
"She's throwing well right now, and we just want to keep her doing that," added Miller. 
Notre Dame managed to score the lone run of the ball game on an RBI ground out by senior outfielder Lisa Miller in the fifth inning. The Irish were limited to three hits by North· ern pitcher Tracy Meade. Se· niors Alvarez, and Casey Me· Murray provided the hits, along with sophomore Andrea Keys. 

In the second game, Notre Dame broke out to a 2-0 lead with single runs in the first and third innings. Sophomore Sara Hayes scored both runs for the Irish on an error and a wild pitch. 
The lead did not hold up, as Northern's third baseman Stacy Paller, ripped Alford pitch over the left field wall in the fifth inning to knot the score at two apiece. 
With the score tied at two, neither team scored until the 13th inning. That's when Northern put together four straight hits with two outs to score three runs. Notre Dame threatened in the bottom half of the thirteenth with two hits, but could not score. 
"I kept thinking we were 
gonna score," said Alford. 
"Every time I came in the 
dugout, I was relieved that we 
held them one more inning, 
and I thought we'd score to 
end the game." 
Alford pitched 12.2 innings 
of the second game before 
allowing Northern to take the 
lead. Her record dropped to 7 · 
6 on the year. 
"Staci was pitching well," 
said coach Miller. "As long as 
she was throwing well, I was 
gonna go with her. She 
probably got a little tired down 
the stretch, but it was her 
game at that point." 
"She pitched 13 innings, 
which is a long time to pitch," 
explained Abrahamson. "We 
needed to battle back to 
salvage the day, and I was 
pleased we were able to." 
Offensively, Notre Dame had 
their chances. They pounded 
out ten hits, including three 
apiece by Hayes and McMur· 
ray, while junior Christy Con­
noyer added two. 
"We had our chances, but we 
weren't able to capitalize," 
realized Miller. The Irish had 
two base runners on in the 
thirteenth, but couldn't score 
the runners. 
Notre Dame continues their 
season on Thursday at VIC, 
and then returns home to face 
Indiana State on Saturday at 2 
p.m. The Irish will compete in the Mid Continent Conference tournament on May 11-12 in Indianapolis. 
"These are big games this week and we need to continue to play well and win," concluded Alford. 
•faresare eochwayfrom Chicagobosed onaroundtrippurchose. Toxes not included and restrictions apply. <:all for other worldwide destinations, both one wey and roundtrip.
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd fioor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951·0585 
Call for your FREE copy of the Student Travels Magazine 


Look Who's 
21 

Happy Birthday 
Love Dad, Mom, Michelle, Brian 


LACROSSE 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team is one win shy of setting a school-record of 11 wins in a season. They face Michigan State Saturday in their season finale (see story page 32). 
Junior attaeker Handy Colley needs just one goal to break his own record for goals in a seasQn with 43. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

At the women's tennis ban­quet, freshmen Wendy Crab­tree and Holyn Lord earned co­Most Valuable Player honors and junior Christy Faustmann was Most Improved. 
Junior Lisa Tholen won the St. Joseph Valley academic award. 
SMC BANQUET 

At the Saint Mary's athletics awards banquet, the following awards were given: 
VOLLEYBALL-Karen Lorton­Most Valuable, Leah Lemke­Most Improved and Kim Branstetter-Coach's award. SOCCER-Megan Dalsaso-Most Valuable, Amanda Eiler-Most Improved and Kristen Crowley­Coach's Award. SWIMMING and DIVING-Katie Northup­Most Valuable, Carrie Kerns­Mental Toughness, Ellen Kramer-Coach's Award and Carisa Thomas-Regi Symonds ('93) Memorial Award. BAS­KETBALL-Jennie Taubenheim­Co-Most Valuable, Kristen Crowley-Co-Most Valuable, Kim Holmes-Most Improved, Mollie Wheeler-Coach's Award. TRACK&FIELD-Joann Weed­Most Valuable-field, Cheryl Fortunak-Most Valuable­running, Michelle Wenner-Most Improved, Christy LaBarbera­Coach's Award. SOFTBALL­
Saint Mary's tennis easily handles Hope College 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team (12-5) ended their season Monday by defeating Hope College 7-1. "Hope is always a nice team play. We traditionally beat them, but they are a decent team," said coach Jo-Ann Nester. 
In singles play, No. 1 player Mary Cosgrove knocked off Marie VanTubbergen, 6-2, 6-3. In the second and third positions, senior Natalie Kloepfer and junior Thayma Darby also beat their 
NEED HELP MOVING HOME ? 


MAIL BOXES ETC. 
will be ON CAMPUS to help you 

ship your things ! 
AT THE STEPAN COURTS · May 3 -8 1 0 AM -5 PM May 13 -15 NOON -5 PM May 17 1 0 AM -3 PM AT THE LYONS COURTS : 
opponents in straight sAts. 

At number-four, sophomore Andrea Ayres blanked Laura Baker in the first set. ller mateh was not complete, however, until she stopped Baker in the third set for a tie breaking win. Ayres won 6­0, 7-6, (7-4). 
Senior Chris Smiggen, at number-five, also blanked her opponent, Jill Wyman, in the first set and went on to win 6-0, 7-5. At number-six, sophomore Nancy Waibel, lost to Meredith Kaoyer, 6-2, 6-3. "It was a tough match. I played well, but she was more consistent than I was," said Waibel. 
In doubles play, the No. 1 duo of Cosgrove and Ayres stopped VanTubbergen and Kate Gingras, 6-2, 7-5. At number-two, Smiggen and sophomore Hobin llrycko beat Murray and Wyman, 6-4, 6-2. 
Kloepfer stepped in for injured senior Shannon McGinn at number-three doubles. Kloepfer and Darby shut down Baker and Kaoyer, 6-2, 6-0. 
The team will know on Sunday if they will be competing nationally against other Division III schools. 
Cosgrove has a chance for an individual bid. 

"She beat the girl at Carlton, who was ranked first. And she has only lost to one seeded player," explained Nester. 
Unusual Summer Job On Campus 
WNDU needs a vacation relief technician for summer employment from May through September to install, operate, maintain, and repair radio, television, cable, and satellite equipment. This is ideal for technically­minded science/engineer student with a knowledge of electricity and electronics. The position is for up to 40 hours per week, includes shiftwork and requires a valid driver's license. Please apply at the WNDU Studios by May 3nt. 

I.S.O PICNIC 
(International Student Organization) 
HOLY CROSS HILL 
DATE: WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28TH 
TIME: 4:30P.M. 

FREE FOOD & DRINKS 
Jane Murphy-Most Valuable, 
May 5 -8 1 0 AM -5 PM 

Michelle Limb-Most Improved, 
EARN WHILE YOU LEARN

Sara Miller-Coach's Award. 
* FREE PICKUP * 

TENNIS-Mary Cosgrove-Most 
Call 277-6245 For Details 
Valuable, Lisa Rania-Most Im­

T E c-H N 0 L 0 6 y
And Dorm Schedule. 

proved, Natalie Kloepfer­
Coach's Award. 
tor R C R, D Er··[ .. M R
Tammy Hadke '88 .******************..
(basketball) and Sara Mayer 
SCHOLARSHIP DRAWING '91 (tennis) became the first 
!Maple Lane! 
he Office. of Univ~rsio/ yo.mputi~~ in~ites the.~. otre two members of the SMC Hall Dame, Samt Marys, and Holy Cross communmes to
T
FOR EVERY 80 HOURS YOU

of Fame. 
!Barber Shop! 
WORK AS A MANPOWER 

attend this Spring serie5of presentations on the edtJ.cational TEMPORARY YOU CAN
Natalie Kloepfer was named : serving t!it 'll{ptre '])arne comnumity for! 
uses qfcomputet and media technologies. 
ENTER INTO A DRAWING

Scholar Athlete, while Kristen 
TO WIN A

: over 30 years :
Crowley received the. Director's Award and Karen Lorton was ! 2112 South Bend Avenue ! 

Spring Series .. 
..... ···'''"-'
$300.00

named Athlete of the Year. Jt-(across from the new Martin's)Jt-
SCHOLARSHIP

Jt-• 
,flectronfcPublishing II: CO~ROH as a

: 272-6722 : 
MANPOWER OFFERS

****************** 
• Great weekly pay 
Publishing Hediurn < 
• Flexible schedule 

ApnF28th, 1993 • 3:3r!ili~s·obPM that reveals your 
• Unique testing 
·.·. . D/Bartolo Ha!J, Room 14 I 
skills and the
"It "aries from 
(Pleas/note the roofn change) 
types of work you 
. . .
like

Baatch to Baatch" 
A continu~don ofthe session pr~nted in the Fall series experience 
• Real work exploring electronic publishing. CD-ROM is becoming a
• Free word processing 
popular medium fof distribution oftext, large databases, and

Thanks for not 
training 
multimedia publications. Microsoft's new Encarta multi­
• Good benefits 

media encyclopedia will be demonstrated. A live audio MAKE THE RIGHT MOVE. 
cutting us off 
conference with the Development Lead for Multimedia 
CALL MANPOWER TODAY.

all year Wally! 
Publications at Microsoft will follow the demonstration. 
MANPOWER 320 W. LASALLE AVENUE
Love, 
SOU'I'H BEND, INDIANA 234-0157

the Farley Girls 
Must be 18 years or older 




---------~-------.... 
Today 

It was no place for yellow squash. 

Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
SPELUNKER 
WUl,Jt"N, PER ThE C0 LL OQV Y'S INSTR(TIONS 
W( 'VE £UMINAT60 ll~t NON-CATHOLIC [UARI'I::.TeRS. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1-\E'( OAI>, l'l'll \)0\~G A. TRP.JF\C SAfE\'{ PoSTI:R. Do '(OJ 1-W.f£. A~'( IDEAS 
FOR A SLOG!~-~ ? 

JAY HOSLER 


BILL WATIERSON 


40 Priest's 48 Emulate Bryan vestment 49 Baptism, etc. 
42 Like many a 51 Attention-Dale Murphy getters catch 53 Urges 
44 Kind of 55 Roof border 
barometer 56 In Erin it's ever 45 Electees green? 47 TV's "-Wars" 59 --Jima 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
S\JR'C ! " C'KL\ '5\S \-\I>-'IE A RIG\-\\ TO T\-\E Rol\\) TOO, 't()\j N.O\S'( I P<JLL\j T \ N. G' \N.CON.S\DERP-.1£ \t'.~.J-1\f\CS! I 1-\C'l\'£ GI\"S G()E.S \.>P 1CJ E\G\-\T 13\JCKS t>. Gt>-ll.ON. ..'" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Do a slalom 4 Fish spear 7 Part of R.S.V.P. 
10 Recipe amt. 13 Anderson's 
"High--" 14 Genetic letters 15 Before, to Poe 16 Willis O'Brien's 
Kong, e.g. 17 Heisman winner 
Kelley, e.g. 18 Of egg stone 20Actress 
McClanahan 21 Kashmir fleece 23 Cork instrument 25 Man: Comb. 
form 27 Thefts 
28 "Darby's Rangers" star 30 Buffalo puckster 32 S.A. rodent 33 N.Y. and Bast. 34 "--bin ein Berliner" 37 Hardy character 38 Form of Soviet wrestling 
40 Woody's son 41 Dundalk-to­Dublin dir. 
42 "__ be in England ... " 
43 More plucky 
45 "Picnic" playwright and family 
46 Concord 
47 Eyeball part 

so A Patrick Henry delivery 52 O'Hara's 
peepers? 54 Alley button 57 Dye vessel 58 Italy's Saint 
so Salt 61 Dublin ending 62 Writer Ana·is 
63 Double: Prefix 64 Dec. 24, e.g. 65 Aspin or Brown 66 Elec. flows 67 "... a trip to the 
old--": Farrell 68 Tiny 
DOWN 
1 Move for O'Connor or Kelly 
2 Soda nut 3 Abie's colleen? 4 Washer or 
eyelet 5 Mythical princess 6 "A--Calico," 
1946 song 7 Egyptian king a Barry Fitzgerald 
had one 9 Lascivious men 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
22 Baseball's 
Wagner 24 Hasten 26 O'Casey 
studied it 28 Sullivan 
Stadium take 29 "Rock of-" 31 Monastery: 
Abbr. 34 Lamb dish 35 Singer Laine 36 Turk Murphy 
blew one 39 Dined 

and Erin village 12 Chick sounds seaweeds 

• 

I• 
Sports 
page 32 Wednesday, April 28, 1993 
Notre Dame lacrosse on the verge of an NCAA bid 
MSU last obstacle the Irish gain recognition in road to the tournament in record-breaking season 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE By KEVIN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
Sports Writer 
The 16th-ranked Notre Dame lacrosse team In a year that has seen the Notre Dame lacrosse 
(10-2) faces a daunting challenge this weekend program gain national prominence, the season is 
when they travel to East Lansing, Michigan to coming to its critical conclusion and bids to the NCAA 
faceoiT against Michigan State. Not only do they tournament are on the line. This scenario, however, 
have to play a Spartan team that is playing its has played out differently for the Irish this season, in 
best lacrosse of the season, there is also the pres-what has been a ground-breaking year. 
sure of knowing that this one game will dictate A number of firsts have been achieved this season, 
whether the Irish capture the Midwest region's the most notable being the No. 12 ranking the Irish 
bid and go to the NCAA tournament. garnered in the United States lntereollegiate Lacrosse 
Just like last season, the final game of the Association's eoaehes' poll earlier in the season before 
season for the Irish will make or break their settling into the No. 16 slot, which they've held for the 
entire year. Their goal all season has been to past two weeks. This year's squad has also tied the 
return to the NCAA's, and once again the Spartans school record for most wins in a season with ten, and 
stand in the way. Last year, Michigan State hopes to break the mark with a win at Michigan State 
stunned the Irish with a 14-13 last-second this Saturday. 
comeback, but was not enough to wrestle the On an individual level, junior attacker Randy Colley 
Midwest bid from Notre Dame. needs one goal to break the mark for most goals in a 
This year, the Spartans are hoping they can use season, and is nearing the reeord for career points. At 
their homefield advantage to upset the Irish and the same time, junior midfielder Billy Ahmuty is 
steal the bid. Notre Dame has to play the closing in on the record for ground balls in a career 
Spartans with the knowledge that no Irish team with 195. 
has won in East Lansing since 1985, and that Examining Notre Dame's season from a national 
they have dropped five of the last seven. perspective, the Irish have proven to the lacrosse 
Michigan State enters this weekend's game on a community that a university can build a winning 
roll, as they upset Hobart, the No. 2 team in program while not offering scholarships. Coach Kevin 
Division Ill, on the road last weekend. This added Corrigan has manufactured a winning program based 
confidence ·will go a long way toward helping on hard work and desire, luring players to Notre 
them prepare for the Irish. Dame with its tradition and the opportunity to build a 
Spartan coach Rich Kimball will rely on an national powerhouse. 
attack-oriented offense to penetrate the Irish Playing in the Midwest region where lacrosse has 
defense and put pressure on sophomore goalie always been regarded as the poor half-brother to the 
Ryan Jewell from the opening faceoff. Michigan The Observer/Kyle Kusek kind played on the east coast, this year's team has 
State looks to their attackers Junior attacker Randy Colley needs just one goal to break his own proven that you don't have to 
see MSU page 26 single season scoring record of 42 goals. play for Syracuse or Virginia to see LAX page 26 
Danapilis injured as Notre Dame falls 

Kobata shines as Irish 
By JENNY MARTEN 1 in the first game by the fired­striking out 10 in a seven-in­Associate Sports Editor up Crusaders (5-28) who exe­ning complete game effort. 
softball splits a pair
cuted in every aspect of the "The credit goes to those Okay, let's just say it: Val­game and made the most of guys," said Murphy. "They 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 

paraiso beat Notre Dame, but their opportunities. played their hearts out." 
Sports Writer 

VNSTOPPAB 
that is not the biggest loss the Those opportunities were far Valparaiso picked up a run in 
The Notre Dame softball 

Freshman pitcher Terri Kobata 
Irish sustained yesterday. and few in between as starting the fourth inning when Jeff 
ran her scoreless streak to 51 consecutive
team managed to split a 

Last night at Coveleski Sta­pitcher AI Walania allowed only 
innings with ano-hitter Tuesday, her fourth.
doubleheader yesterday dium, the Irish baseball team five hits and no walks while 
see IRISH page 24 
OPPOIIEIIT I.P. E.R. HITS
afternoon with the nation's No. 

was defeated by Valparaiso 2-1 
Dayton 7 0 0 in the first game and then just 
12 ranked team, Northern 
Illinois. The Irish won the first 

Valparaiso 7 0 1 squeaked by the Crusaders in 
game 1-0 behind freshman 

LaSalle 4 0 3 
the 11-inning doubleheader fi­Terri Kobata's fourth no-hitter 
LaSalle 5 0 1 
nale. 
of the season. In the second 

Bowling Green 7 0 0
But more devastating than game, Northern came back 
Loyola 7 0 0
that was the loss of Eric 
from a 2-0 deficit to win 5-2 

Detroit Mercy 7 0 2
Uanapilis. Danapilis, the Irish 
in a marathon game of 13 rightlielder who is among the 
innings. Notre Dame's record top hitters in the nation, was hit 
moved to 27-13 on the season in the head with a wild pitch in 
while Northern fell to 31-12. the eighth inning and was taken 
"We were able to compete at to the hospital with a con­
the same level as a nationally cussion. 
ranked team," said Irish coach The injury added Uanapilis to 
Liz Miller. "It's always exciting the already long Irish injury list 
to play ranked teams. We which includes senior captain 
played very good ball in both Eddie Hartwell who is out until 
games." the end of the week with a 
In the first game, Kobata ex­groin pull, Greg Layson who is 
tended her scoreless inning only 70 percent, Paul Failla 
streak to 51 innings by who is 80 percent, Marty 
striking out 11, and yielding DeGraiT who is out indefinitely 
only one walk. The walk came L-..____.:..;;;;;;;,;,;;;;=:::::....:=~.::.:...:-=~ and Craig Allen who is out for 
on a close 3-2 pitch in the fifth pitch so well." added senior the year. 
inning. She has limited co-captain Staci Alford. "We "The injury situation has been 
opponents to seven hits and were all so high about winning really, really tough on us," said 
two walks in her last eight the first game." Irish head coach Pat Murphy. 
outings. ller season record "We've been talking about "We've got to go day by day and 
stands at 13-3, with eight wins this game for so long, it was get better." 
in a row. great to win," added senior co­Last night gave Notre Dame a 
"Terri pitched a great captain Ronny Alvarez. glimpse of what improvement is 
game," commented coach "She had a real good day," necessary. 
Miller. "I could tell she was said Northern coach Dee Abra­Looking like their men's 
really pumped for today's hamson. "She kept us off bal­
The Observer/ 
basketball counterparts, the 
game. A couple of days off ance."

Junior pitcher Tom Price was the winner in Notre Dame's 11-inningIrish (25-11) were overcome 2­really helped her." 
marathon Tuesday against Valparaiso. 
see SOFTBALL page 29
"It was fantastic to see Terri 
D~@Drnrn SPORTS 


NBA PLAYOFFS 
SMC TENNIS 

MAJOR LEAGUE 

Bulls, Blazers looking toBelles breeze past Hope in 
BASEBALL 

home finale. 
regain championship form 

Hershiser's three-hitter see page 30 
as playoffs begin. 

leads Dodgers. see page 22 
see page 13 


.. 







