
-~~--­
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 83 TUE.SDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
CLC discusses J-Boards an is advised to revise parietals 
Wilkinson/O'Donnell ticket wins the SMC election by a landslide 
By CHRISTINA CANNON 
News Writer 
Mary Beth Wilkinson and Lynn O'Donnell were elected by a landslide over Melissa Whelan and Melissa Peters for Saint Mary's College student body president and vice-president. 
In Monday's election the Wilkinson/0'Donnell ticket re-

Glad to get those tickets 
A lucky student makes it to the front of the line at the LaFortune Information Desk to pick up tickets to t~e Rev. Jesse Jackson's speech. Jackson will speak at Stepan this Friday. All of the tickets had been g1ven out by early Monday afternoon. 

"We're disappointed because we thought more people would vote," Peters said. 
According to Becky McLain, in charge of conducting the polls for the student body election, roughly one-third of Saint 
Mary's women cast a ballot in 
the election. 
Neither Wilkinson nor O'Donnell was available for comment. 
The Observer/T.J. Harris 

t::::c:::::\':::::):':':'1
llliilllillllllililllllllll 

Rev. Jesse Jackson to speak at ND Friday 
By KAREN DUBAY 
News Writer 
Rainbow Coalition President Jesse Jackson will speak at Notre Dame Friday at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center as part of the National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities' (NASSCU) fourth national convention, which will focus on cultural diversity. 
Jackson was singled out be­cause he is "one of the most prominent speakers on cultural diversity" in the nation, accord­ing to junior Mike Schmiedeler, the conference chair. 
Schmiedeler said Jackson has "a lot of experience to offer Notre Dame," since he has at­tempted and often succeeded at changing and affecting many individuals' views on cultural diversity. 
Jackson's lecture "will help open relations on campus and that is definitely a step in the right direction," Schmiedeler said. "I feel he is really a dy­namic speaker. Most people will leave the speech with something new to think about." 

"Unfortunately," he added, ''I'm afraid there will also be some people who may be too closed-minded to learn from Jackson's experiences." 
Although Jackson's speech will be the most prominent ac­tivity of the conference, student leaders from many different Catholic colleges and universi­ties will also be on campus to discuss their experiences and views on cultural diversity. 
Notre Dame's NASSCU group, which "has doubled in size and is taking off," will be well represented, according to Schmiedeler. 
All available student tickets were distributed yesterday. Student Government, Hall Pres­idents' Council, Student Union Board, Saint Mary's College and the Lilly Foundation have all helped make the lecture and conference possible. 
Foreign policy advisor suggests some criteria for national self determination 
foreseeable harm, and military force should be used only as a

By NANCY DUNN 
• Croatian fighting I page 4 last resort for a country to have
News Writer 
the right to secede, said Powers. The international communitySelf determination should be united Yugoslavia. According to needs to take more active mea­the exception and not the rule, traditional theory the individual 

sures to support such states

said Gerard Powers, a foreign countries do not have the right instead of, "blindly endorsingpolicy advisor in the United to secede, said Powers. "There 
the status quo," said Powers.

States Catholic Conference in is a fear of establishing 
Encouraging democracy, help­his lecture, "Sarajevo and Self secession as a precedent." 

ing resolve conflicts, improving Determination: Building an Old Powers suggested three ob­

peace-keeping and peace­

New World Order?" stacles to self determination. 
making forces were steps thatPowers said the former Yu­First, he explained, the division Powers suggested countries likegoslavian system collapsed be­of groups is infinite, and the U.S. might take in order tocause none of the constituent therefore, authorities must de­

help these struggling micro­

groups were satisfied. The cide which nationalities are de­states.
Serbs wanted to create a more serving of recognition as As a representative of the
powerful Yugoslavian state, sovereign states. 
bishop's committee, Powers saidwhile other ethnic groups Second, he said, the recog­

he supported multi-lateral

wanted to decentralize the gov­nition of such a right would en­intervention in Sarajevo and the
ernment to prevent Serb dom­courage secession even when surrounding areas. To improve
ination. political accommodation within 
the situation he listed four

When it became clear that the state is still possible. Fi­
steps. First, enforce the

the old order would crumble, nally, the political and economic 
economic embargo. Second,the Serbs began their attempt viability of a state must be 

enforce the no-fly zone. Third,to establish a larger, ethnically examined. 

improve protection for the aidpure state, said Powers. Powers said there needs to be convoys. Lastly, support seriousThe violent nationalism is a political and legal criteria to 

consideration of the use of

result of, "a deep insecurity distinguish between those who United Nations troops. 
which grew out of a history of do and those who do not have The United States cannot sitvictimization," said Powers. In the power to be sovereign back and congratulate itself for the Serbs' eyes war is justified states. He said the question is not being in a state of war like
to protect themselves from not so much whether or not a the Eastern European coun­
being dominated by Croatian certain people deserve inde­
tries, said Powers. Unless stepsfascism or Islamic rule. pendence, but rather whether a 

are taken, said Powers,

To further add to the problem, country meets certain criteria. 
"Yugoslavia could be the

Powers said, countries like the Reasons for seeking inde­
harbinger for more dreadful

U.S. have resisted claims of self pendence should be good, gains events."
determination and supported a should outweigh any 
By SHANNON DeVERNA 
News Writer 

Judicial Boards and the possible revision of parietals were the main topics of Monday's Campus Life Council meeting. 
Rich Delevan, the execu­tive coordinator for the Legal Department introduced a proposed list of guidelines for dorm Judicial Boards. 
"Residents should be in­volved in maintaining good order in the halls," a student panel should work with a J­Board "in adjudicating of­fenses against that good order," and "the character of · uridicial offenses must differ among halls" due to the unique characteristics of the different halls, he said. 
These guidelines would help to make the infre­quently used J-Boards more successful, Delevan said. 
Carroll Hall Rector Father Michael Sullivan said his hall "has created an active J­Board," although in the last semester only one case has been tried. According to Sullivan, the results were successful and there were positive reactions from the staff, the students, and the members of the J-Board. 
The goal of the Carroll Hall J-Board is to handle virtually all offenses, and to pass on only the most serious offenses to the Office of Student Affairs, Sullivan said. The key factor in the success of J-Boards, Delevan agreed, is implicit trust. 
The CLC decided that by April 5th, the final decisions on any revisions of DuLac concerning Judicial Boards will be made. 
In other business, Mau­reen Connelly and Ryan Bohr discussed a student government report they are preparing for the Board of Trustees on Gender Rela­tions. They wanted feed­back about things the Uni­versity could do to improve relations between women and men. 
Among Connelly and Bohr's suggestions was the changing or elimination of parietals. This idea prompted many members of the Council to point out the advantages of the current parietal system. 
Connelly suggested en­forced quiet hours in place of parietals and said that without them "there could be room for growth (in gender relations), if students had a little more freedom." 



page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

It's time to listen to the poets 
I saw the funniest thing as I watched the recent Inauguration Day ceremonies on TV in 


LaFortune. As soon as President 

BECKY BARNES 
Clinton finished his Assistant News

speech and the national Editoranthem ended, everyone 

sitting on the front-------­couches rushed ofT-and a new mob suddenly appeared and filled the empty seats. 
This wave of people looked suspiciously like several members of the English department who were, presumably, trying to hear poet Maya Angelou. (Evidently the group of people who rushed ofT didn't think a poet was worth listening to.) 
The group of people who left heard President Clinton say, uThere is nothing wrong with America that can't be cured by what is right about America." 
They missed Angelou say, uYour armed struggles for profit I Have left collars of waste upon I My shore, currents of debris upon my breast." 
That's what's wrong with America. 
What's wrong in America is that there is always a war going on, and it isn't always fought with weapons (although we do that often enough). 
It's a war over race, class, gender and sexual preference, and it's tearing apart our country. 
We see the debris of this war in Dantrell Davis, the 7 -year-old Chicago boy murdered on his way to school in gang-related violence. 
And in Allen Schindler, the gay sailor murdered in Japan last October, allegedly by shipmates, one month after admitting he was a homosexual. 
We see it in the countless victims of rape, abuse, sexual discrimination and harassment. 
We see it in the children in our public schools who can't read and in riot-torn south central L.A. 
Angelou knows what's right about America. She told us throughout her poem, no less than 36 times. 
Reports from Washington say people cheered as they listened to Angelou's poem because they heard themselves in it, one of the 36 nationalities, religions, races and genders Angelou mentioned 
Raeism, sexism, and discrimination cannot be ended by passing or repealing a law -a lesson President Clinton is learning the hard way. 
Angelou concluded, ullere on the pulse of this new day I You may have the grace to look up and out I And into your sister's eyes, and into I Your brother's face, your country I And say very simply I with hope -I'Good morning.'" 
Angelou's hope lies in unity, unity in a nation with a million different groups each calling each other brother and sister. 
Politicians can't forge that unity. All they can do is direct money to programs, and the character of the nation defines where we direct money. 
National character is often defined by a country's literature. We've listened to politicians long enough -with little result. 
It's time to listen to the poets. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Systems News Harry Zembillas Katie Murphy Sandy Wiegand Business John Connorton Production Emily Hage Jeanne Blasi Susan Marx Kira Hutchinson 
Accent 
Laurie Sessa Sports Matt Carbone Brian Kubicki 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Hundreds more marines head home 
• MOGADISHU, Somalia-Nearly 500 Marines boarded planes for home today, the first of 2,700 U.S. troops being pulled out of Somalia this week in the biggest withdrawal since U.S. forces landed in December. The first 473 Americans to leave today were members of the 1st Combat Engineer Battalion of the 1st Marine Division of Camp Pendleton, Calif., whose duties were being turned over to the Army. Nearly 1,000 combat Marines returned to Camp Pendleton last month in the first major withdrawal of American forces since they arrived Dec. 9 to secure relief food shipments from bandits and looters. There are still 24,361 U.S. troops in Somalia. 
NATIONAL 

Clinton toughens trade wjth Europe 
• WASHINGTON -The Clinton administration took a tough bargaining stance in its first major trade dispute by announcing Monday that next month the federal government would stop purchasing a wide range of products made in Europe. The halt would take effect March 22 unless a compromise is reached before 
OF INTEREST 

then. The United States is demanding that Europe abandon rules that favor European manufacturers at the expense of foreign companies in sales to government-run utilities. U.S. companies like General Electric and the American Telephone & Telegraph Co. have complained the European rules cost them sales. The administration's action comes at a time when a number of American industries from steel to autos to semiconductors are petitioning the new administration for government help in coping with foreign competition. 
CAMPUS 

Life trustee Timothy Galvin dies 
• NOTRE DAME, ln. -Timothy Galvin, a retired attorney from Hammond, Ind., and life trustee of the University of Notre Dame, died Wednesday, Jan. 27 at the age of 98. A 1916 graduate of Notre Dame, Galvin served as president of the University's Alumni Association in 1934-35 and was elected to the Board of Trustees in 1946. He became a life trustee in 1974. He is survived by two sons, Timothy Galvin Jr., who earned his bachelor's and law degrees from Notre Dame in 1959 and 1962, and Patrick Galvin, a 1961 graduate of the University. A funeral Mass for Galvin was celebrated at 10 a.m. Saturday at All Saints Church, 570 Sibley St., Hammond. 
• 
The Feast of Candlemas will be celebrated in a special liturgy at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. As part of the Feast of the Presentation of the Lord, you are invited to bring along candles from home, that they may be blessed and used throughout the year. 

• 
Codependents Anonymous (CODA) is a 12-step program for men and women interested in recovery from alcoholic and/or otherwise dysfunctional family backgrounds. CODA is open to all men and women inter­ested in establishing healthy, fulfilling relationships. Meetings are held in Sorin Hall Chapel every Thesday at 5:30p.m. 

• 
An evening prayer service at 7 p.m. in Regina Chapel will provide an opportunity to reflect in a prayerful way on the pains and joys of renovating the Church of Loretto. 


• 
"Working Outside the Big Six with BOO Seidman," a Notre Dame Accounting Association presentation, will be at 7 p.m. in Room 222 at Hayes-Healy Center. All accounting majors are welcome. 

• 
Housing Contracts for 1993-1994 must be returned today. Return the contracts to 311 Main Building. 

• 
A Memorial Mass will be held for John Coryn, a Notre Dame junior who was killed in an auto wreck over break tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Log Chapel. ' 

• 
Wednesday Lunch Fast sign-ups will be today and tomorrow in the dining halls. By skipping just one meal each week, the money for your food can be sent directly to grass-roots farming projects in the Third World. 


MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 1 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 292,362,540 +1.89 to 243.81 


S&P COMPOSITE +3.74 to 442.52 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +22.15 to 3,332.18 
GOLD + 50.10 to 5330.30 oz. 
SILVER + 50.015 to 53.675 oz. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1653: New Amsterdam -now New York City -was incorporated. 

• 
In 1876: The National League of Professional Base Ball Clubs was formed in New York. 

• 
In 1942: A Los Angeles Times column urged security measures against Japanese-Americans. 

• 
In 1943: The remainder of Nazi forces from the Battle of Stalingrad surrendered in a major victory for the Soviets in World War II. 

• 
In 1971: ldi Amin assumed power in Uganda, following a coup that ousted President Milton Obote. 

• 
In 1990: South African President F.W. de Klerk lifted a ban on the African National Congress and promised to free Nelson Mandala. 




1uesaay, reoruary <e, 1~~;,;~ 1ne uoserver 

People with eating disorders must First round debates finished 
Dillon Hall, with a score of 2-0. Morrissey was opposed to the ban. Siegfried, whose residents
change thought process, says expert By GERALDINE 
HAMILTON
By PATRICE MILLER ery from the eating disorders of said. People have eating disor­favored ending the ban, hosted
News Writer 
News Writer anorexia and bulimia. The ders because they have trouble Zahm Hall and lost. The score program has been in existence coping with their emotions and 
was 2-0.
The first round of the Iceberg
People with eating disorders for eight years, with Staples the use food as escape, instead of 
Sorin, hosted by Pangborn Hall, 
Debates was Monday,
must learn how to change their coordinator for six years. dealing with their problem. argued against lifting the ban
concentrating on the issue of
thought process towards food, Nancy Schoeneman, who is Since their self esteem is low, and won with a score of 2-0.
whether the ban on homo­
said Valerie Staples, the pro­director of the Eating Problems no matter how thin they are Badin and Stanford tied 1-1.
sexuals in the military should 
gram coordinator of the HOPE Outreach program on both the they still feel and view them­Alumni Hall -A lost to Keenan
be lifted. 
with a score of 1-0. Keenan
program who talked at Saint Notre Dame and the Saint selves as fat, she said. 
The debates were judged by
Mary's Monday. Mary's campuses, helped to According to Staples, "People argued against the ban on gays
faculty members and law
The HOPE (Healthy Options organize the program on who are bulimic enter treat­
in the military. 
students. Each team was given
for Problem Eaters) program, "Causes of and Recovery from ment on their own because of Overall most of the winners
a score of 0, 1 or 2.
located at South Bend's Memo­Eating Disorders." the emotional pain. They are argued against the ban being
Saint Edward's Hall hosted
rial Hospital, dPals with "Eating disorders are an is­tired of making excuses." lifted on homosexuals in the
Breen Phillips and took an 
sue that we are all affected by," For the recovery process to 
military. The issue of gays in
affirmative stance on the issue.
said Schoeneman. be successful, the patient has 
the military was selected
St. Ed's won with a score of 2.
Awareness of an eating dis­to learn not just how to express 
because it is such a current
Alumni Hall -B beat Fisher 
.,._.~~ order is an important part in sadness or anger, but actually 
issue, said Amy Listerman,
with a score of 2 due to
the recovery process, Staples what those emotions are, Sta-
chair of the Iceberg Debates. "It 
forfeiture. Alumni was opposed 
just seemed timeliest to do this
ples said. Group therapy helps 

to the ban being lifted. 
issue now," said Listerman. 
the people to learn about their 

Morrissey beat their host team, feelings and is key to the long 
and emotional process of re­

SECURITY BEAT
covery, she said. 
OBSERVE YOUR COMMUNITY'S 

Home Alone II PG 4:45 Leprechaun R 7:15,.9:30 Hexed R 7:30, 10.00 
SMOKING LAWS 

Alive R 7:00, 9:45 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, TX ''"m$fQ9 
5 anC1 7 NIGHTS $ DAYTONA BEACH, FL ''"m 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS $ 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL rrom 81 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS $ 
STEAMBOAT CO ,,om f29 
2 5 AND 7 N1GHTS $ 
MUSTANG ISLAND, TX rrom fJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, SC rrom Sf2f 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
VAIL/BEAVER CREEK, CO rrom$299 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS • •E.cC:+ PRICES FOR STAY-ii NOT PER NIGHT! • 


TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·5911 
~ {j'lti--I-A~I..--J 
#o~u CftKI"eti.<. and t'a.n~=uli.a.n t'e.ntoVL 
~~; J~·20, 1993 
9:30 u..m--12 n.w..n. t'o.ff'e)l i.ate"C:~o;JioKup­
12:30 fl'm.-2 p•m, J{_',_f£ .i"u.nJ(=n.~ 
5:30 p.m. #unlo-< era.. 0Jk.. 
~~~e,.nd 0d.,lu>d (i 01lo.ffa~j· t'.8i.t'. e.reg'Uln! 
#a~j"" CftKf.ti.<. and t'a.n~o"'ulio.n t'enlu 
7:30 J"fn· "':.i\nnu on ~f~ Ci·hnu•" 
~R.~mnd f.~J,.laul (t_ 01lo.f£o:J, t'.8i.t'. "'Llni~ • ...,a:t ~P=i.!enl 
:he£1Kouo• 
(:jo:tc• CitKf.tic und t'on-'•"'alion t'enlu 

9:30 a..rn.. 
(tw.li..o _~{\..'luuf~P1k...'!Nl.laHt:Ul ~ft.f,tf.ou"• #o:t« (ftKfdtc un<l t'on~o.culion t'enlu 
(~uniou. cun olif£,i:Jn up fo~ e.JenL, al t't'& ~uMito.no '? t'uff 1 -6028 
Ca•pus Bible Pellowsllip
at 

St. Mary's College 3S6 Madeleva Hall Tuesdays 7:00 p.m. 
COME JOIN USf 

For more information call: 
Lea Anne  Christy  
284-5243  284-4160  
Steve & Charlene  Brent  
272-8890  634-3562  


(the queen of all groundhogs) 
Love, Your Family and Friends 

Thinking ofdoing ayearofservice? How about doingit 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, Februaru 2, 1993 
Mediator says division of Bosnia is still a possibility 

ZAGREB, Croatia (AP) ­Croatia's army and ethnic Serb militias exchanged heavy ar­tillery fire Monday in south­western Croatia, and fighting also flared in neighboring Bosnia-llerzegovina. 
In ~russels, the 12 European Community foreign ministers held ofT slapping tougher sane­tions against Serb-led Yu­goslavia, which is accused of backing rebel Serbs in former Yugoslav republics. 
The European Community's mediator at the talks, Lord Owen, pleaded for a delay. He said U.N. pressure in the next days could still "pull the Serbs and the Muslims together" on a proposed map for dividing 
Israel, to appease U.N., offers deportee return 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Israel will allow 100 deported Pales­tinians to immediately return from Lebanon and repatriate the nearly 300 other exiles within a year, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Monday in a 
. deal designed to avert possible 
U.N. punishment. 

The United Nations had de­manded the exiles' immediate return and Israel's refusal en­dangered the resumption of Middle East peace talks. 
Israel's environment minister predicted the compromise unanimously approved by the Cabinet on Monday night would end Israel's "collision course" with the Security Council and halt moves to impose sanctions. 
But the Palestine Liberation Organization quickly rejected Israel's move. 
Yasser Abed-Rabbo, a PLO executive committee member, said from Tunisia that it was an attempt to circumvent the U.N. resolution demanding the re­turn of the deportees to their homes. 
Rabin said the arrangement was worked out in discussions with the United States, and the Clinton administration promised to shield Israel from international sanctions and work to renew the Middle East peace process. 
"It is a package deal," he told a news conference. He added it would apply whether or not the deported Palestinians -who have been living in a makeshift camp in southern Lebanon ­accepted Israel's oiTer. 
Rabin said Israel would help international groups get hu­manitarian aid to the deportees "by helicopter, not by land." 
Details of the plan were not immediately known, including how the 100 deportees to be return will be selected. 
Environment Minister Yossi Sarid called the deal "a com­promise that is very helpful to Israel." 
Bosnia into 10 semi-au­tonomous provinces. 
"I just think we will have to railroad the map through," he said. · 
The Belgrade-based news agency Tanjug reported a "major offensive" along a 30­mile front by Croatian artillery, infantry and armored units, apparently directed at the Serb­held towns of Obrovac and Benkovac in southwestern Croatia. 
Croatian officials did not con­firm the attacks. Last week, Croatia launched an offensive to take back the one-third of Croatian territory held by Serbs under a U.N.-brokered cease­fire that had lasted a year. 
Israel arrests Arab-Americans 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Israel is accusing two Arab-Americans of being sent from abroad to rebuild the Hamas movement, the latest step in an apparent government campaign to tie the militant Islamic group to Palestinians in the United States. 
Government statements on Israel television said Sunday that Hamas is now being run from the United States, where Hamas leaders were said to 

• 
CALL A CAB. 
TAKE ASTAND.· 
DON'T DRINK AND 
DRIVE! 
=111/E 'IIRSIJY filliP 
Hair Designers 
Say you saw us in The Observer Haircut $6.00 with Student 1.0. 
277,0057 
2 mi. N of campus on U.S. 31 


Last Call! Study Abroad Last Call! 
Saint Mary's Semester Around the World Open to all ND/SMC Students 16 Semester Credits (3 sociology, 3 'history, 3 economics, 3 religion, 4 arts) applicable towards college core, appropriate majors or as electives at NO or SMC. Classes in Madras, India. Extensive Travel: Japan, China, HongKong, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, India, Nepal. Optional travel (air ticket included) in many cities of Eastern/Western Europe. Cost: Regular ND/SMC tuition, room and board for a semester, plus a reasonable surcharge. For Information/Application: Dr. C. Pullapilly, Madeleva 336, Saint Mary's Campus phones: 284-4468/44 7 4( office) 2 72-0889(home) INFORMATION MEETING 
Wednesday, February 3,1993 
7:00p.m. 303 Haggar, SMC 
have links with offices in Iran, Sudan, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and England. 
Government-owned television, which first reported alleged links between Hamas and Palestinian-Americans three weeks ago, said the organization was mainly run from an office in Arlington, Va. 
But a security official who briefed reporters said only that "a part of this organization" was in America. 
In Bosnia, hundreds of Muslim women and children were reported streamjng out of the eastern town of Cerska after Serbs guaranteed them safe passage. They were headed for Kalesija, a town that has been under freauent attack. 
Hurry! 
Only 2 Houses Left 
•4 
and 5 Bedroom 

•Security 
Systems 

•Fully 
Furnished 


287-4989 laurie McKelvey $100 off 
first months rent with this ad 
ND-SMC 
Students 
20th Annual Summer Program 
LONDON  ROME  
May 19, June 18  June 13 , July 12  
ravel in Ireland,  Travel in France,  
Scotland, and France  Germany, and  
Switzerland  

Courses offered in BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 
MEETING February 15 
6:30 p.m. Carroll Hall, SMC • Free pizza Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions 
Managing Editor 
pplicants should have strong management and interpersonal skills, a solid base of Macintosh computer knowledge, basic journalistic and editorial skills and some newspaper production experience. Any full-time 
ndergraduate at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
ny sophomore or junior Business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong "nterpersonal and organizational skills and a basic 
nderstanding of accounting principles. 
Please submit a three-page statement of intent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, February 5, 1993 at 5 p.m. For more information about these positions, call Managing Editor John Rock at 631-4541 or Business Manager Rich Riley at 631-5313. 


--------------------------. 
j 
J 
j 
Business 
Tuesday, February 2, 1993 page 5 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Clinton tough in trade dispute 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The a statement. gotiators meet on the subject Clinton administration took a The administration's action Feb. 17-18. tough bargaining stance in its comes at a time when a number The administration's latest first major trade dispute by an­of American industries from action comes on the heels of an nouncing Monday that next steel to autos to semiconductors announcement last week that month the federal government are petitioning the new the United States would impose would stop purchasing a wide administration for government anti-dumping duties on steel range of products made in Eu­help in coping with foreign imports from 19 nations, in­rope. competition. cluding seven EC members, that 
The halt would take effect While Clinton insisted during would effectively price their March 22 unless a compromise the campaign that he was products out of the U.S. market. is reached before then. committed to the principles of The new administration in­
The administration's an­free trade, Republican critics in sisted, however, that it had no nouncement immediately was Congress have questioned that choice because of deadlines in branded "unilateral bullying" commitment given the support that case but to let a prelimi­by one European official who Clinton received from such pro­nary ruling begun by the Bush urged negotiations to avert a tectionist sources as U.S. labor administration go into effect. trade war between the United unions. States and Europe. The Bush and Reagan admin­
The United States is demand­istrations rejected many, but ing that Europe abandon rules not all, efforts to erect trade that favor European manufac­barriers on the grounds that turers at the expense of foreign such moves would hurt Ameri­companies in sales to govern­can consumers by allowing ment-run utilities. domestic producers to boost 
U.S. 
companies like General their prices while doing little to Electric and the American create jobs. Telephone & Telegraph Co. have complained the European rules European officials called cost them sales. Monday's move as ill-advised 

U.S. 
Trade Representative and charged that the adminis­Mickey Kantor said that the tration was ignoring the many new administration would stop Buy-American provisions in U.S. purchasing European products law, especially at the state and in the areas of telecommunica­local level. tions, water, energy and trans­"I cannot believe it is in any­portation unless there is a set­body's interests, European or tlement by March 22. American, to attempt to deal 


Otherwise, "the United States with trade issues in this way," will act and will act firmly," said Leon Brittan, the European Kantor said. Community's top trade 
He also called for public negotiator. comments by March 5 on a "We do not accept this form of proposal to widen the retalia­unilateral bullying," Brittan tion against European products said in a statement issued in beyond federal government Brussels. purchases. He said he would bring the 
"We stand ready to conclude matter up when he meets Kan­an agreement, but we will not tor in Washington on Feb. 11 hesitate to enforce our right to and hoped the issue could be be treated fairly," Kantor said in resolved when lower-level ne-
American Express tries to recover prestige 
NEW YORK-The resignation also gave up his seat on the he has been blamed for a series effectively had authority over of James Robinson III as board of directors. of financial and publicity Golub. Whose company was it chairman of American Express As American Express tries to problems, and a stock price anyway? Co. sent a compliant message to recover the prestige supposedly now languishing in the low "As we went through the disgruntled investors -and synonymous with its green and $20s, about half its 1989 level. week, we watched and read reflected the turbulent times in gold charge cards, the main some of the (news) articles that boardrooms across corporate questions now are: Will the Robinson, 57, said he decided tried to interpret the organiza­America. company's stock recover? Will to resign largely because of tional structure and questioned 
Robinson just one week ago management be able to put the public confusion over whether whether Harvey was in fact 
j
executed a stunning power play confusion behind it? How badly he or his chosen successor as CEO," Robinson said. at the giant financial services will the recent escapades chief executive, Harvey Golub, "In the environment of other J company, persuading directors damage its reputation? was running the company. Such companies going through these 
j
who in September asked him to "The publicity alone is so uncertainty can batter a kinds of questions, I concluded step aside to keep him on and negative for the company," said company's reputation with in­it's nuts," he said. "We won the even enhance his power. Rosabeth Moss Kanter, a vestors and the public. big step of getting Harvey in as 
But reaction to the move was Harvard Business School pro­In a 15-4 board vote last CEO and no way did I have any swift and largely negative. After fessor who studies big organi­Monday, Robinson remained intention to complicate his life." a week of internal dissat­zations. "The publicity under­chairman and Golub was pro­Robinson was the third CEO isfaction, confusion over who cuts all the claims a company moted to CEO. Robinson also in a week to step down, follow­was running the company, a like American Express has to was named chairman and chief ing John Akers at struggling revolt by institutional share­excellence." executive of the company's IBM and Paul Lego at Westing­holders and further battering of In an interview Saturday flagging Shearson Lehman house Electric Co. Last year, a the company's stock, Robinson night, Robinson sounded bitter Brothers brokerage unit. militant board ousted General threw in the towel. that his 22 years at American That meant Golub had au­Motors Corp.'s chairman, 
The company announced Express, nearly 16 of them as thority over Robinson's work at Robert Stempel. Other, smaller Robinson's resignation, effective CEO, ended with his reputation Shearson, but Robinson as companies also have forced out Feb. 22, on Saturday. Robinson sullied. In the last three years, American Express chairman their leaders. 
Government study shows job-injury data inaccurate 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) -Arthur Oleinick, associate The estimate is based on missed days due to 1986 in­The federal government is professor of public health law Michigan data that showed that juries jumped to about 16.1 vastly underestimating the and an author of the study. The more than 73,000 Michigan million -or almost nine times number of workdays Americans findings are reported in the workers had job-related in­the Bureau's count. miss due to job-related injuries, February issue of the American juries in 1986, and, by March a researcher contends. Journal of Industrial Medicine. 1990, had missed about 8.9 The inaccuracies exist be­
A Bureau of Labor Statistics million workdays due to those cause the survey relies on a 
The actual number of missed spokeswoman did not return a injuries. sample of employers who workdays may be five to nine telephone call for comment That total is almost five times submit data from their annual times higher than indicated by Friday. greater than the Bureau's total, Occupational Health and Safety a U.S. Bureau of Labor Statis­which reported only about 1. 9 Administration injury and ill­tics report useq to measure the Oleinick estimated that the million missed workdays, ness logs, Oleinick said. impact of such injuries, accord­bureau's Survey of Occupational Oleinick said. Data from the logs, which ing to a University of Michigan Injuries and Illnesses excluded When the researchers con­track job-related fatalities, in­School of Public Health study 373 million of the 421 million sidered funds held in reserve by juries, illnesses and missed set for release Monday. missed workdays through insurance carriers for antic­workdays, are submitted to the 
"We're talking about very March 1990 that resulted from ipated lost work time after bureau by the middle of the substantial numbers here," said job-related injuries in 1986. 1989, the estimated number of following year. 


r --------------------------­
~ 
t Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, February 2, 1993 
The Observer 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor...................... David Kinney Advenislng Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Spons Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rellect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631 -5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Views on future

Student defends Senator's stance 
bookstore needed 
Dear Editor: ernment is hypocritical in who mandatory spousal consent have been granted human I would like to discuss some of it gives rights to, and attempts infringe upon the woman's right rights, our government does not Dear Editor: the points made by Mr. Beeli's to show this through several to have dominion over her body (and cannot) then conspire to 
As you may know, Father 
article concerning abortion in analogies. He brings up the by allowing someone else to take away the rights of certain Malloy recently asked several The Observer of Jan. 25. classic slavery analogy, saying make the decision of groups in an arbitrary manner, 
members of the Notre Dame 
I do not want to defend all that we cannot refuse to rec­childbearing for her (something as Mr. Beeli suggests is possible. 
community to serve as a 
politicians, but I think that Mr. ognize the human rights of fe­I am sure many males would One may argue that a woman committee to study the needs of Beeli should have a little more tuses, in the same way that we not agree with if they could gives up any rights she may the University regarding a tolerance for Sen. Bradley. It is cannot refuse to recognize the imagine a world where the have when she makes the deci­
campus bookstore for the fu­
easy to browbeat someone human rights of slaves. In the sides were reversed, and it was sion to have intercourse, and if ture. 
when you know exactly what case of slavery, there is only one them who were being told to she becomes pregnant she must 
The members are James 
you want to say, and can put person who is truly affected by have children). "face the consequences." Lyphout, Associate Vice-Presi­someone on the spot. the decision of whether or not The analogy of disposing of Regardless of social and reli­
dent for Business Affairs and It is unfair to expect every to afford human rights -the the elderly after they reach a gious views to the contrary, for the Chair of the Committee;politician to be able to give a slave himself. certain age (a Ia Logan's Run) many years now the decision to Kevin Christiano, Chairman of complete philosophical dis­However, in the case of abor­also misses the mark. Mr. Beeli have sex has not corresponded the Sociology Department; course on every topic which tion, there are two conflicting argues that choosing an arbi­to the decision to have a child. Christopher Fox, Chairman of concerns the public. This is akin interests; the mother and the trary age for the elderly to die The two have become separate 
the English Department; John 
to expecting all doctors to be unborn child. The fetus' "right is much the same as arbitrarily acts, and must be treated ac­Houghton, graduate student in experts in every field of to live" is at times in conflict determining that a fetus be­cordingly. 
Medieval Studies; Roger
medicine, something which is with the mother's right to de­comes a baby with rights at Perhaps I should explain to Schmitz, Vice-President and impossible, of course. termine whether or not she birth. As Mr. Beeli is so fond of Mr. Beeli what the "choice" in 
Associate Provost; and myself.

Mr. Beeli credits several "false wants to reproduce. In this logic, I offer that it is not arbi­pro-choice stands for. It refers choices" to the pro-choice camp scenario, a choice must be trary, but only logical that a to the choice of whether or not While we have been meetingat the end of his letter. His made as to who's rights have baby is accorded his/her rights to give special significance to with various students, we want complaint that taxpayers have priority. at birth. This is the first time in the relationship between sex to make sure that we have no choice in whether or not to I believe, as do many others, the child's life that its vested and childbearing, one that is heard all viewpoints. Some of fund abortions is pointless, as it that the mother's rights must be interest in living no longer guaranteed to us through the 
the issues that have been 
is obvious that our taxes will given the higher priority. Even overlaps with the mother's First Amendment of the Consti­brought up by other students always go towards things like the father can have no rights in wishes to carry it to term. tution. "Choice" means choos­are: possible locations, the (for example) the military, the this matter, as ultimately it is At the point of birth, it seems ing to allow other people to 
combination of merchandise 
arts, or various other endeavors the woman who has to deal obvious that the mother can no make this important decision and books (especially on busythat are not popular among all with all of the consequences of longer refuse to have the baby. based on their own personal weekends), and an enhanced Americans. He also refutes the decision. Laws requiring Once it is established that we beliefs, and not pushing the trade book selection abortion as an intrusion on the 
morals of what is, in fact, a mi­natural biological process. nority, upon anyone. 
I am sure that there are 
If one wants to get specitic, It also means that if women many other things to be con­
most of modern medicine is an are free to choose when they sidered as well. If you would intrusion on the natural biolog­want to have children before 
like to share your opinions con­ical process. This medicine in­conception, they should be free cerning this matter, please send 
cludes intensive care for pre­make the same choice after 
your comments to me at mature babies. the Caesarian conception, prior to birth. Mr. 
Student Government, 203 
section method for birthing, and Beeli speaks about the evils of LaFortune Center. Thank you
using vaccination to protect oppression of the unborn at the in advance for your contribu­newborns from disease. These end of his article. People seem tion to this project. methods, all of which pre-empt to forget that removing the 
the natural process of child­freedom of willful reproduction birth, probably save as many (if from women is a form of op­
Greg Butrus 
not more) lives as those chil­pression as well. 
Student Body President 
dren who are aborted. Matthew J. Cunningham 
Jan.27,1993
The main points of his letter Off-Campus lie in his belief that our gov-Jan.26,1993 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
BaJPsl&! Ii'rl T/R&I) OF 

OCING 7H!SMMIL..Y'5/JIR­ZONJ<&R., SILLY? WHY IS 
IT 5/LJ,'f. IFI

TY UT!I£ 58CR£Tl I THAT'5 1-f/ANTlV~ON JUST 
MAYA51<? 

"We are not permitted to 
7H& /3{)C¥(S/ 5/U.Y. \ 
choose the frame of our
\ destiny. But what we put in it 
is ours." 
--Dag Hammarskjold 

~------------------------------------------------·---------~ ~------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~ 
Accent 
page 7 Tuesday, February 2, 1993 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Accent Writer 
As if the Keenan Revue weren't funny enough, Second City showed up last night to bombard Notre Dame with its own payload of explosive com­edy. 
The six-member traveling troupe played to an enthusiastic crowd at Washington Hall last night, entertaining the audience with its signature brand of satire. 
Poking fun at everyone and everything during the two-hour show, Second City zeroed in on targets ranging from pacifists to typical Domer male posturing. 
Perhaps the evening's most entertaining moments came when the group moved into its improvisational mode. 
Random shouts from the audience determined where the comedy would go, and it went from comatose patients to frog­boy. 
But one would expect an out­standing performance from the most successful comedy group currently performing in this country. 
With an alumni association that includes Dan Aykroyd, John Belushi, Bill Murray, Martin Short, Gilda Radner and Joan Rivers, Second City has long been a springboard into the comedic neverlands of talk shows and Saturday Night Live. 
In fact, three of the group's former members-Chris Farley, Tim Meadows and "Wayne's World" star Mike Myers-are currently featured on the NBC late-night mainstay, while Aykroyd, Belushi, Murray and Radner were all original Not­Ready-for-Prime-Time Players after their stints at the Second 


I•
' 


The Chicago-based comedy troupe entertained last night with its-signature __ brand ofsatire and improv 
some twenty years earlier, when several-undergraduates at the University of Chicago got together in an abandoned chop­suey house. 
"They were exploring im­provisational comedy in the 
original show," Todd Stashwick, a member of the traveling cast. "Eventually it evolved into a revue format, with sketches, songs~ and improvisational games throughout the show." 
--Stashwick himself was a col­lege student when he decided that he would someday be a member of the Second City gang. 
"When I was a freshman in college, they came to my school____:Loyola of Chicago-so I had wanted to do it since I was 17," said Stashwick. "I was a theater major and I asked some of the actors in Second City how I could get started in it. 
~'-Eventually, I got a job at the (Second City) club in Chicago as a waiter. I auditioned twice be­fore I got the job." 
Fellow cast member Tracy Thorpe also had a long-time dream to become a Second City player. 
"My dad took me as a child (to see a Second City perfor­mance),",said Thorpe. "It was a lifelong dream to be a part of 
it... 
Thorpe has now been a part of Second City for over two and a-half years, while Stashwick has only been with the group 
• for a year, which he has found to be very rewarding. _:The scenes are very diverse," sa!d Stashwick. "Acting is my first lo'V€." 
Stashwick and his fellow players are on the road for eight months of the year, play­ing dates from August until May. 
"' 

The original Second City the­_ater is in Chicago, at 1616 ""North Wells. Tickets for Chicago 
shows, which feature a cast different from the one which playea here last night, can be ordered at (312) 664-4032. 

City Theater in Chicago. of America in the late 1970s with the airing of SCTV, which 
A reference to a derisive featured such standout comics characterization of the Windy as John Candy and Rick Mora­City in the New Yorker nis. magazine, the comedy group's name became familiar to most But the troupe originated 
'Used People' uses charm and comedy to make a hit 
By PETER BEVACQUA 
Film Critic 
"Used People" is a comedic drama about love, family and other embarrassments. It's about second chances, taking chances, and where they can lead. But mostly it's about Pearl and Joe, the unlikeliest couple in Queens. 
New York, 1969-the trials and tribulations of the Miracle Mets have captured the imagination of a troubled metropolis, a nation watches as man walks on the moon, and a husband of thirty-seven years has died and forced his wife, Pearl Berman (Shirley MacLaine), to become a prema­ture widow. 
The film begins with a Jewish funeral; what ensues is a magical tale of forgiveness, understanding and rebirth. Only hours after the burial of · her "beloved" husband, Pearl must deal with a relentless suitor, Joe Melendandri (Marcello Mastroianni). who refuses to allow her to confine herself within the archaic mores of Jewish mourning. 
Joe is a foreigner, and it is his exotic "otherness" which liberates a family from their self-erected walls of im­penetrable callousness. He is a symbol of the Old World which, ironically, enables an assorted lot of post-counterculture mis­fits to forge a new identity. Joe's dapper Italian bravado hides a man whose search for meaning in his own life propels him to inject love into the hearts of the Berman family. 
It is not often that an audience perceives the images upon the screen to be anything other than Hollywood per­sonas; however, the characters of "Used People" are, indeed, people, and an empathetic rela­tionship between viewer and viewed is achieved. 
The audience is concerned with Pearl's quirky daughters, her feisty and sharp-spoken mother. Freida (Jessica Tandy), and a little boy, Swee' Pea, who believes his deceased grandfather lives vicariously through him. 
The film is a panorama of humor and emotion. We laugh aloud at Norma Berman's reenactment of Ann Bancroft's timeless portrayal of Mrs. Robinson in "The Graduate." And we are silenced as Swee' Pea debates whether to escape from the confusion which 
Used People 
Produced by Peggy Rajski Directed by Beeban Kidron Starring Shirley Maclaine, Marcello Mastroianni, Kathy Bates, and Jessica Tandy * * * * 
(out of five) 
haunts his familial psyche. 
Kidron's American feature film debut is a triumphant success. The rejuvenation of a family is traced from the interment of the Berman patriarch through the marriage of Pearl to a quixotic man whose traditional charm and wit reacquaint the various members of a Jewish-American family with one another. 
Kidron's "Used People" unites the sixties with the Old World, the problems of today with an­swers from the past, the promise of youth with the fear of aging... and suggests re­soundingly upon the silver screen that people and families endure. 


Joe Meledandri (Marcello Mastrroianni) courts the recently widowed Pearl Berman (Shirley Maclaine) in the new motion picture "Used People." 
~-------------------------------------------------­
page 8 

SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -Bucks 116, Warriors 102 Michael Jordan scored 20 of his 37 points in a wild fourth Fred Roberts led a spurt to quarter. rallying Chicago from close the third quarter and a 20-point deficit to a 96·92 Todd Day scored eight of his 23 victory over Utah on Monday in the final period Monday night. night as the Milwaukee Bucks 
B.J. Armstrong had 20 point..<J beat the Golden State Warriors 116-102. Lee Mayberry addt~d 17 for
NBA Ca sules Milwaukee, including a pair o fourth-quarter 3-pointers.
and S(:ottie Pippen added 17 as Golden State, losing its sixth
the Bulls ended a two-game 
straight road game, got 20
losing streak. 

points from Tim Hardaway andThe Bulls outscored Utah 36­
19 apiece from Chris Mullin
17 in the fourth quarter. 

and Chris Gatling. The cold-shooting Mullin, who Had they lost, it would have 
missed two last-second free
been the Bulls' first three-game throws in a 1 06-105 loss to theskid since the start of the 1990­Los Angeles Clippers on Friday,91 season. 
made just 7 of 20 field goal attempts.
Hornets 112, SuperSonics 100 Nets 115, Mavericks 96 
Larry Johnson, Alonzo 
DALLAS (AP) -DerrickMourning and Kendall Gill each 
Coleman scored 27 points, in~had 19 points as Charlotte went eluding nine in the pivotal third over the .500 mark for the first quarter, as New Jersey handedtime since Jan. 18. 
Dallas its seventh straight loss. The Nets struggled to a 57-51The Sonics got within 95-87 halftime lead, then pulled away with 6:07 to play, but Dell Curry in the third quarter by doublingresponded with two free throws 
their lead in the first threeand a 3-pointer to give the 
minutes.
Hornets their largest lead of the 
The win was New Jersey's
game at 100-87. 

first in three games on a four­game road trip. 
Ricky Pierce led Seattle with 23 · Rookie Sean Rooks scored 21
points. Shawn Kemp had 17 points for Dallas, which lost for points and 14 rebounds for the the 22nd time in 23 games.
Sonics. his sixth straight dou­Terry Davis added 16. 
ble-double. 

Classifieds 
The Observer Tuesday, February 2, 1993 
Belles drop North Central to snap losing streak 
Jordan's 20 fourth quarter points help overcome deficit 

By NICOLE MCGRATH  behind in Chicago last Saturday  sistant  coach  Don  Cromer  
Saint Mary's Sports Editor  by defeating North Central  helped  the  Belles  up  their  
College, 62-55.  record to 10-4. According to  
The Saint Mary's basketball  Although coach Marv Wood  Wood, the starting line-up was  
team left their last two losses  didn't travel with the team, as- going to be shaken up. Instead,  
Cromer had a different plan.  
Cromer kept the starting line­ 
up of Kristen Crowley, Jermifer  
Taubenheim,  Liz Vernasco.  
Julie Snyder and Kim Holmes.  
Junior Anne Mulcahy was the  
only substitute used throughout  
the game.  
"It was  nice because it al­ 
lowed us to stay mentally in the  
game," said co-captain Crowley.  
Crowley, Taubenheim and  
Vernasco played a full 40 min­ 
utes while Mulcahy subbed for  
Snyder and Holmes during the  
first half.  
North Central played zone de­ 
fense and the Belles weren't  
able to move the ball around.  
Saint Mary's also couldn't get  
their shots to drop but held  
North Central ofT their heels.  
"Defensively, our press gave  
them a hard time," said Crow­ 
ley.  
Snyder and Holmes closed  
down the inside lane forcing  
North Central to shoot from the  
The Observer I Marguerite Schropp  outside.  With  the  defense  
pressing the whole game, the  
Janet Libbing and the Saint Mary's basketball team broke a two game  Belles didn't hurt themselves by 
losing streak by beating North Central over the weekend.  not scoring the first half.  

The balanced offensive attack which have plagued the team of the Bonnies and their ten­all season.
Hoops 

dency to push the ball up the floor should keep Notre Dame A win would mark the fifth
continued from page 12 

running. MacLeod would like to time the Irish have defeated St. see his team maintain consis­Bonaventure in five meetings.
Williams is the only Irish player tent scoring and avoid the large The game starts at 7:30 p.m. atin double digits with 17.4 points chunks of time without a basket the JACC.
per game. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. 1o 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST·gold bracelet w/heart FURNISHED ROOM, $170 mo. I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR PANAMA CITY BEACH Ill 7 Thank you St. Jude Mary and shaped links on 01/27. If Walk to campus. KENTUCKY GAMEl NIGHTS AT BEACHFRONT Holy Spirit for many favors 
found please call Annette 287-2159. CALL MEG · X3884 HOTEL. STARTING AT $109. granted 
at x2644. CALL JAMES @289·2683 TYPING 287·4082 
I NOTICES 

3 BEDROOM HOUSE DESPERATELY NEED I need a ride to Indianapolis this $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. 1 Duke Tik Stu or GA Spring Break! Daytona Beach! weekend , will pay for gas. SECURITY SYSTEM Call Leigh x2912 Ocean Front Hotels: Quad Call Katie x2724 Thanks.
I WANTED I
PIZZA NIGHT 

232·3616 Occupancy: Seven Full Nights: Vip TUESDAY. FEB. 2. 1993 SUMMER JOBS!! Camp Birchwood 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 1 , Discount/ID card ... Round trip Stacia· 4:45 ·6:45P.M. & Gunflint Wilderness Camp, 2 of 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 2, or 3 ND vs. DUKE GA tickets. Charter Bus from $199.50 per Smile! Somebody likes you I NDH AND SDH Minnesota's finest summer youth 
219·291-7153. PLEASE HELP!!I!!!!!!! person! Room Only available from SteveS. camps, seek college students to 
Call ALISA @3196. $109.50 per person. Limited Used Texts Cheap Pandora's work as counselors and instructors. 
FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT Availability! 1·800·881-beach. Stacia,in the Bookmobile 12·4 daily 233· Employment June 8th to Aug. 13th. 
NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND Need Duke & Kentucky tickets. Smile, honey, the weekend's 2342 ND Ave & Howard On campus Mon. Feb. 8th, 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Will pay $$$. Call (708)835·2208 MARA: coming Ill Madeleva Hall, SMC. For an 
2773097 Love, Ryan RAPID WORDPROCESSING application contact the Counseling 
Desperately seeking basketball Hoping you have a delightfully wild Call Lori at 271-0754 & Career Development Center. 
tickets for the ND vs. Duke birthday beyond your expectations; Summer jobs and internships· LeMans Hall. 
basketball game. Please call Kerri and you won't have to bake the University Directories. the nation's Dissertations, Theses. 
FOR SALE I 

at x2764. cake. largest publisher of campus Term Papers Adoption-Active. Young couple Style on a student budget. '85 Audi telephone directories, is Word Works Typing Service wants to adopt your bundle of joy. $3600 or best offer. 271·0523. I NEED DUKE TICKETS! waiting to drop something interviewing goal oriented students 
277·7406 Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Leave message. CALL DAVE X1 045 big Wednesday morning, for a challenging, full· time summer Peggy 1 ·800·682-8628. 
Whitney position. Gain valuable experience 50,000,000 CONGA DRUM WI STAND 
·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·· in advertising, sales and public ALASKA SUMMER $60 CALL 271-1938 
CRUISE & BAHAMAS VACATION relations. Average earnings $3,900. SPRING BREAK '93 BLOWOUT EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn 
I need 2 tickets for the NO-Kentucky 7 days, 6 nights · cruise from Fort Expense paid training program in SALE! $600+/week in canneries or 
Basketball game. Lauderdale to the Bahamas. 2 Chapel Hill, NC. College credit may Lowest prices. best trips · 1 00% $4000+/month on fishing boats. 
TICKETS 

people $300 (air not included). Call be available. Interviews on campusguaranteed! Cancun. Jamaica, & Free transportation! Room & Board! 
Please call Cameron at 634· 273-2740. February 3rd. Information and Florida packages still available from Over 8000 openings. No experience 
1723 ...... MELISSA: Call back, Lost#. interview sign-up available today at America's student travel leader. necessary. Male or Female. For Help! 1 need NO/Ken. tix. call Emily 
CP &P Services · Hesburgh Library 
Travel free · organize a small employment program call 1·206· x5245 
&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·& Superbowl Top Ten or call1-800-743·5556. group. Call STS @ (800) 648·4849. 
545·4155 ext. A5584 
10. They can't have habits-I desperately need 3 DUKE tix!! 
NEED TKTS · KENTUCKY well not bad ones. ROCK DRUMMER NEEDED ASAP BABYSITIER WANTED. MUST Please helpll Julie X-2993 
800·777-0675 EXT 275 9. He turned her around and it TOP TEN LIST FROM BILLY'S B· 
FOR ND BAND WI ALREADY SET SPEAK SOME JAPANESE. 
was his sister! DAY ATU OF I GIGS. CALL JOE X3695 PREFER IF HAVE OWN AUTO. 
8. Who brought the drugs? 10 Be sure to drink a lot of fluids, CALL MICHIKO NEED DUKE TIX 
7. They've been hugging for a long Love Mom. 9 lkilled a lot... I mean a 289·1108 AFTER 7 PM. 
PERSONAL 
time. They've got something going lot of brain cells. 8 "Drinking beer 
ILOST & FOUND I 
on. with my (real nice) friendsl ...at Student Painters is interested in AVOID THE RUSHII!I 
6. Lays: no one can stop at one. O'Malley's." 7 "Was someone aboveFound: 
hiring highly motivated students to Call Aileen Give your sweetie a Valentine's Day 
5. Some one in this room oughtta me?" 6 Red and the electronic dart manage their own bus. we offer X4292 message, but don't wait un1il the 
go to mass. and it ain't gonna be machine. 5 U of I for under $10. 4 management training, credit last minute to type it in!! Classifieds
Between Cavanaugh and Zahm this 

me. RAHHAIISKA (The cry of Baumie). backing, and a full support staff We need MANY, MANY can be placed anytime between 
weekend, a gold bracelet. Call 634· 

4. That's o.k. It saves me a quarter. 3 "Holy Moly ... That's not right!" 2 earning pot. $8,000. join the most Duke Tix, both GAs and now and Feb. 11 at 3:00 in The
1530 to describe. Ask for Steve. 

3. Mike, can you empathize with the The Adventures of SPUD and her successful painting co. in Indiana STUD. Observer office (3rd floor Bills? potato pants. 1 Darcie & 
LOST: One girls "Kubisaki H.S." 

call 1·800·543·3792 ask for Tom Please help us by calling LaFortune). 
2. I don't think Kathy's a virgin I Diane...practice season is Smith. 289-5563.
class ring with mens neck chain. 

1. Man, she really nailed that high over ... Wednesday the BIG leagues note I begin. Love, Red & JQ 
Lost during the snowball fight most 
likely in South Quad. Huge 

I need a ride to the I need 1 duke stud. call x3000. SHORT ON CASH? 
sentimental value! REWARD. 

PITISBURGH AREA Borrow from the 
Adoption: Doctor and teacher will for spring break. If you are going to I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS MORRISSEY LOAN FUND
Please call Ryan @ X1691. 

make dreams for your baby come 
Don't

or through this area. please call MARY X2862 
true. Full·time parenting. Best of the LUANN at X4792. 30 day loans 
Lost· " KITE··. still in package, 

city; summers by the beach: your I will share gas and tolls. Needed: Up to $250
Sat. night between 02 and Walsh. 

baby rocked to sleep by a cozy 
Drink
Great personal value! x1951 One Kentucky Ticket @ 1% interest 

fireplace in winter, and by ocean Call Sue X2494 
waves in summer. Art, music, the LOST: Green wind breaker at 
and

Monday · Friday
I FOR RENT 
best education. endless love. Call 11:30. 12:30
Campus View on Saturday, Jan 22. 

Franny or Stephen collect. 
It has yellow trim and my name Music student seeks roommate to 1 need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for 1st Floor LaFortune (212)369·2597. 
Drive
sewn in it. Please call 634·3447 if share 2 bedroom, pleasant 

Kentucky· Brian x1069 O'Hara Lounge you have it. apartment, low rent, 288·8933 
Tuesday, February 2, 1993 The Observer 
page 9 

Men's swimming returns from weekend with two wins 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
After their first dual meet road trip in over a year, the Notre Dame men's swimming team returned to school Sunday night with two wins against Cleveland State University and St. Bonaventure University. 
The Irish increased their dual meet record thus far this sea­son to 9-2, with a decisive 114­97 win over Cleveland State and a nine-point victory over St. Bonaventure, 126-117. 
"We are thrilled with the re­sults in every possible way," stated head coach Tim Welsh. "We haven't been tested on the road in over a year. 
"The key to the season has been how well we have raced and competed side-by-side with the other team. This weekend was a good test of that, because both opponents are extremely talented racing teams," said Welsh. 
The Irish faced a Cleveland State team strong in the medley relay, the breaststroke events, and the 100 freestyle, according to Welsh. 
"They used their strengths to their advantage," Welsh said. "But we had the advantage of a larger team than CSU which al­lowed us to keep sending in fresh, rested swimmers." 
Freshman Tom Horenkamp won his first collegiate event Friday in the 1000 freestyle with a time of 10:01.04. Junior Jim Doran, returning this semester from a job in Wash­ington, D.C., captured two first places, one in the 200 free with a time of 1:47.53 and one in the 500 free in 4:51.36. 

Notre Dame will return to the Cleveland State pool this spring for the Eastern Collegiate Swimming and Diving Champi­onships. 
"We tried to allow as many people as possible to swim at least one of their championship events in that pool in prepara­tion for Easterns and the championship season," stated Welsh. 
The meet against St. Bonaventure was a challenging one, but the Irish still emerged with a victory on Saturday afternoon. 
"It was a close meet," said senior co-captain Tom Whowell. "We knew it would be, so we just went into it with the attitude that we had to swim tough to win." 
"We were so pleased with the way that we responded to the challenge," said Welsh of the Saturday meet. "They have a smaller pool. It's only six lanes, so the intensity goes up. It's more exciting, side-by-side competition." 
The winner of the meet was undecided until the last event had ended. Due to the diving talents of junior Sean Hyer, Notre Dame had a twelve-point lead going into the 400 free re­lay. St. Bonaventure needed to 
claim first and second place in 200 breast and the 200 l.M. the relay to win the meet, while also helped give Notre Dame Notre Dame needed a second the necessary margin over St. place. The Irish secured their Bonaventure. victory, taking both second and In diving, Sean Hyer "really third place. pulled through" for the Irish, 
Senior Greg Cornick's win in according to Whowell. The the 100 freestyle and Colin nine points gained by his victory Cooley's victories in both the in the three-meter competition 
By HALEY SCOTT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team returned home this weekend with a win over Cleveland State and a tie against St. Bonaventure Uni­versity. 
The Irish travelled to Cleve­land State early Friday morning to race that afternoon. Notre Dame dominated from the beginning, and went on to win the meet 128-101. 
"We are too strong and have too much depth to be chal­lenged by a smaller team such as Cleveland State," said head coach Tim Welsh. 
Notre Dame won eight of thir­teen events, with their normal strong performances in the stroke events. The Irish swept the first three places in the 200-yard butterfly, the 200-. yard backstroke, and the 200­yard individual medley. Junior Kristin Heath, sophomore Angie Roby, and senior Kay Broderick, respectively, were the individual winners in those 

ATTENTION JUNIORS! 
Interested in reading at the JPW Mass? 
Auditions are on Wednesday, Feb. 3rd & Thursday, February 4lli fro~ 4 p.m.-5 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Questions? Call Julie at 4-1321 

HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1993-94 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 19, 1993 
were crucial to Notre Dame's success. Hyer also placed second in the one-meter competition. 
This weekend, the Irish will swim their last home meet of the season at 4:00 p.m. on Sat­urday. 

Women win one in Cleveland but tie the next 

events. 
The meet against Cleveland State was good practice for Notre Dame's championship meet in March. At the close of their season, the swim team will return to Cleveland State to compete at the Eastern Collegiate championship meet. 
Assistant coach Randy Julian commented, "(The meet against) Cleveland State was great. It is one of the finest pools in the country, and it re­ally got the team ready for Easterns." 
After the win in Cleveland, the Irish traveled to Olean, New York, to swim St. Bonaventure on Saturday. The women's team swam well enough to come back from a 26 point deficit and tie 149-149. 
"It was nice to see the women challenged. It was the first time they were really pushed, and they responded well," Ju­lian said. 
Once again the Irish relied on their strength in the stroke events to pull them through the meet. Senior co-captain Tanya Williams won both the 100-and the 200-yard backstroke events, setting new pool records in both. Another pool record was set by freshman Jesslyn Peterson in the 200­yard breaststroke. 
In what Julian called the "guttiest" event of the meet, the 500-yard freestyle, the Irish placed first, second, and third. "It allowed us to get back into the meet. It really fired the team up." 
Other individual winners over the weekend were senior Susan Bohdan and sophomore Jenni Dahl. 


IC~B~RG D~BAl~S 
ROUND 2 


II Resolved I that the ban on homosexuals in the United States Military should be lifted.~~. 
The first dorm listed has on affirmative position and is the location for that particular debate. 
ROUND TWO 
Alumni Bv. Siegfried 
Sorin v. Alumni A 
Zahm v. Pangborn 
Stanford v. St. Ed's 
Breen -Phillips v. Badin 
Morrissey v. Fisher 
Keenan v. Dillon 


Round Two will be held at 9:00PM on Wednesday. February 3. 
"Even if animal research resulted in 
a cure for AIDS, we'd be against it." 
b -Ingrid Newkirk Founder. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Vo ue, September, 1989 
Fed up with the "animal rights" movement? 
"Animal rights" groups equate the life of a child with that ofa rat.. They are stifling medical research through disinformation, harassment, and terror. Now you can do something about the disinforma­tion on your campus. Students for Medical Progress, a program ofAmericans for Medical Progress, will help you work locally to support biomedical research, bring speakers to your campus, and orga­nize to start campus chapters. Support biomedical 
research. Call: 1-800-4-AMP-USA 
RESEARCH SAVES LIVES 
page 10 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Cheerleadlng and Leprechaun tryouts informational meeting will be held February 8 at 7:30p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the .IACC. The clinics start February 15. /Eftf 
.·.=.JNii:i./::'·The Cycling team will hold an important meeting on February 2 in 123 Nieuwland at 9 p.m.. If you have questions, call Sean Carroll at 634-3438. The Late Night Olympics was won by the team of SoriniPE/PW followed by Lewis/Carroll and Stanford!Pangborn!Augusta. '' 
Bookstore Basketball XXII applications for commissioner positions are now available in Student Government office. All applications have to be in by noon on February 8. 
'd' 
NO Ski Club will have a meeting on February 4 in Nieuwland at 7:30 p.m.. Anyone interested in the Spring Break trip to Steamboat, CO should attend. Call Chris Boone with questions at 273-2958. 
SportsTalk will join tonight's men's basketball game · · Bonaventure in progress at 8 p.m.. Tune in to 640AM for call from Noah Cooper, Tom Rinehart and Tom Sear. 
Volleyball suffers surprise loss 
By KEVIN DOLAN 
Sports Writer 

The Irish men's volleyball team suffered a surprise loss at the hands of the Purdue Boilermakers last Wednesday night in West Lafayette. 
Favored to win the match, the Irish dropped Game 1 by a 15-4 margin. They went on to lose 3­1 (15-4, 15-10. 13-15, 15-13), and according to Senior Pat Madden, "It was just one of those really lousy games." 
"Our passing was very ineffective," Madden said. "We were aced 1 0 times. We were emotionally nat. We were just bad." The Irish suffered similar problems in their previous match against Michigan State, another road match. 
To add to the Irish misery, Madden was out with an achilles tendon injury. Madden hopes to suit up for Wednesday's mateh at Illinois­Chicago, but is unsure of the extent of the injury. "No one has looked at it yet," he said. For an Irish team that is 
already missing P.J. Stettin, another key player will be hard 
to replace. 
However, Madden feels that the loss was good for the Irish. "Some of our greatest matches have come after big losses like this." The Irish play Illinois­Chicago for the first time ever on Wednesday. According to Madden, "No one knows what to expect." 
Gates Toyota 
20% off to all students and faculty when servicing your Toyota at Gates Toyota Service Department. 
Shuttle Bus available to Notre Dame and University Park Mall. 
Call 23 7-4005 
Oil Changes for just $20.55 
"Ilove whatyou dojJrme!' 
@TOYOTA 
.._____________. 

Celebn~tin
Dr.M . 

ther King,Jr. 
The Observer 

Tuesday, February 2, 1993 . 
Men 
continued from page 12 

pionships by one tenth of a sec­ond. Miller also won the 200 meter dash with a time of 
21.45 seconds. 

Newcomer to the MCC championship meet this year was LaSalle who finished sec­ond in the meet with 52 points. Said coach Greg Moore of LaSalle, "I think that our program is on the move and I think in a couple years we can take (Notre Dame) down." 
After the meet Coach Piane was named Men's Coach of the 1993 MCC indoor champi­onship meet. 
Women 
continued from page 12 

LaSalle with 58, and Detroit Mercy with 47. Peterson accumulated enough points on her own to place her fourth in the meet, ahead of Duquesne and just behind Butler. 
Loyola runner Julie Keller was a dominant competitor, scoring conference records in the 1000 meter run and the mile run, but her effort was not enough to outshine the running clinic put on by the Irish. 
"The team ran really well. We seemed pretty strong for the beginning of the season," continued Peterson. "Coach Plane also had us well orga-

Erica Peterson 

nized, which helped in the competition." 
The Irish will host another indoor meet this Saturday with the Meyo Invitational. The tougher competition should help to prepare them for the upcoming NCAA Champi­onships in March. 
FACULTY DINING ROOM 
OPEN: MONDAY -FRIDAY 11:30 A.M. -1:00 P.M. 

MODERATE PRICES LARGE TABLES QUIET SURROUNDINGS 
LOCATED ON THE UPPER LEVEL OF SOUTH DINING HALL 
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS/SERVICES PRACTICE: 

~­
::~~lllluuul 
''IIII!~~~~IIIII ···I 
Business Analysts 

A.T. KEARNEY. INC. is a leading international management consulting finn, with offices in sixteen countries. The FUSP group of Kearney advises top management of leading financial institutions worldwide, including commercial banking, insurance, 
and investment banking companies, as well as technology providers servicing the industry. 
WE ARE strategy consultants whose services include the 
·positioning of clients' fmancial products, business strategy, restructuring, and advisory work. Through our work for major players in the industry, we are taking an active role in shaping 
the future of financial services. 
WE BELIEVE that the nature of the problems confronting our clients requires exceptionally talented and creative individuals. As a result, our standards are extraordinarily high, especially in the areas of intellectual achievement, independence of thought, motivation, initiative, integrity, and common sense. In particular, we require a very high tolerance for ambiguity and rapidly changing unstructured situations. 
WE ARE LOOKING for characteristics not limited to any particular course of study; rather, we value a record of high achievement in a selected few academic and extracurricular 
activities. A profile of our '92 class of analysts follows: 
MAJORS INCLUDE: history. engineering, economics, foreign languages, government, business. and mathematics. 
EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES INCLUDE: campus publications. community service work, intercollegiate and intramural sports, leadership in fraternal organizations and 
honor societies, and student government. 
Resumes and a cover letter from interested seniors should be sent by February 8, 1993 To: 
Robert 1\1. Rudy 
A.T. Kearney, Inc. 
222 West Adams Street Chicago, Illinois 60606 

' ~ 
I 
f 
I 
t I 
r 
l 
McuuL1y. l'd>noary H 7:.'W-H:30 J>.m. l>c:l"or1ulu Aokliturlum 101 
,,,,.,, 11111'-!1•1 ... lllJ:' lh\lll,\. 
tt·.tthn).!' .ul4.1tdk.'t II• "'' hy 
Mt")tln;1 Cull, C.SJ. 
llc1'-ll11111'111"/ 01t'rllo}l.\' 
1.1mar (,ullh,,· 
\e•Utul /llltllltl' 
J.uu JluJtz 
l1tf1111llll!'lllufll/llt•ll•' 
Kotr.fmynWL~ 
lrllld/IIIIC''\/Utlc•/1/ 
lllf•'llltlllt•llftllht•c·\tudtc:o. 

.._______ 
-1 Fn•· il~{unllttllt/11 cllll f~fm('~~-'·'""''nl·at fd/'i.!l.!urfdl "!NfKl 
CI\MPUS
MINISTRY·------.. 


..
Today 

Tuesday, February 2, 1993 page 11 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
\-:::=======---7f'LECTIN(n 1\Non-IE HUMAN WON'T No. TO REP.U:-/ Ho'SE: I'~1 S£RtoJ:'> A\3()UT SOLW: T11£ PRoBLEM. I r ffiE:'I'Re STUDEN I G0\JERN MtN I 
RUNNIN(n FoR SI'>P, 'f't<N(JJ.I. DoRKY f:NlJFF Tll RUN FoR f:.1U\)'NT You MUSI HE: C. T6oVeRNMfd'JT'5 HtmHBI OfFtCe, 
A f/C.. fiONAl-RAT FRorJI
THE:N nlf:Y'R£ CUT FRoM n-IE: 
111{; c.orlllGS. f'ACnE 1.\JHo
SAMt C.tanlf-~5 11-\E: PII,E.'JIOU~ 
WilL AGT f\S ntE VOICE 
-----. ADMINISIRAIION. 
OF A PowE;1<.-MitD, UtrRA-mEEI<Y CMTDoNIST 
\HAl 'll 5HOI.V 'EM! 
BILL WATIERSONCALVIN AND HOBBES 
Cfl-l'J\N, OONT J\J'ST Ht>-1'-lG \T VP W\..\'tRE T\..\RoW iO\lR WET \T B't:.lONGS! l'M CO~T 01'-l TI-lE FLOOR! NOT LOOKING FOR 
t:.nRI\ 'NORK AROUND \-\ERE . 
"Quit school? Quit schoon You wanna end up like your father? A career lab rat?" 
ncrua&s 
~~~~; {:::\!!\:

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Carlyle's "--59 Postpone Resartus" 
62 Fiercely fortified 1 Differently 
3&-glance 

66 Tibetan monk 5 Genesis verb 37 Grant's 67 Memorize10 Miracle site successor &8 Recent14 Young whales 39 Don Shula's 69 Asterisk15 Attain team 10 Kefauver16 Orison ending 40 Suffer defeat 71 Hard cookie 11 Kazan film: 43 Watchful 
1957 44 Great strength 20 Monetary unit of DOWN45 Where Its. areVaduz created 
1 Govt. ecology 46 Cahn products group 
21 Olympian 
queen 22 Porcine home 
48Mme., in 2 Raise the jib of a Sonora crane
23 Shabbily 49 ---majeste 3 Shadowbox 
dressed so"-walks in 4 Fly the coop 
25 Homophone for beauty ..." 
air 5 Critical remark 51 Bombeck
27 A '76 instrument 6 Scop's end of 30 Newhart's new 
53--haw day sitcom 56 Cigar end 1 Where to tell it not 8Dull pain ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE g"Ay,-the rub": Hamlet -+---+'-"4--1 10 Stanley Steamer, e.g. 
29 Fraud 49 Record 58Coupd'­11 Author Oz 31 Tendencies companies 60 Jack Sprat's 12 Small 52 Foot pad diet
33 Western lake 61 Singer James liJtnm~!llill salamander 34 Neglects 53 "The Merry 
II/! 13 TV's Rooney 63 Item lent to 
Toper" artist 

35 Salon choice 
-~~ 18 Brian-of Antony
54 Part of Q.E.D. 

rock fame 37 Caught a free 
64 Charlemagne'sride 55 Austen heroine 
dom.

--~~~ "-+=+"-looii. ,..._::....j..::.+:-:+.:--1-=-1 19 Coating for an II!! apple 38Cordwood 57 Digits 65 Sarge's shout 24 Dum-dums, to 
measure Rickles 41 Mythical 
apple-tosser Get answers to any three clues
~..:...j..:-~-1-=-1 26 Sevareid 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·

.:+.~:+=-:+=;..~ 27 Disastrous 42 Encourages 
5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1222
-=...i:~:..L:.:J..:..:.J 28 Syracuse's land 47 Establish 
Start the HEW YEAR 
with a 
1811 South Bcznd Avcz.

GREAT PERM at Campus Shoppe 
• Mon.-Fri.
Shopping Center Volume, Bounce, Curl, pust !'lorth of Frank's Red Hots) 9-9 ..
• Sat. 9-6
Energy and Motion.... only 
• Sun. 10-5
271-7674

Sl995 
Includes s.~ampoo, Conditioner and FREE Haircut rss Value) 2 oz. Aloe Gel Conditoner (s2 Value) 
Additional Charge for long hair Expires 2I 9I 9 3 
.. 
Sports 
page 12 Tuesday, February 2, 1993 
JENNY MARTEN 
On Top of Sports 

This year's recruits could relieve the loss of last year's heroes 
Rick Mirer... Jerome Bettis... Reggie Brooks... Craig Hentrich ... 
When you hear those four names, do you hear little "chings" in your head. No, not dollar-sign "chings" (that will come on draft day). but rather the "chings" of a giant scoreboard keeping track of total Notre Dame points over the entire football season. 
Those were the four leading scorers for the Irish this season and all four are headed for bigger and better things in the National Football League. Their departure leaves the Irish with some gaping holes to fill on the oiTense. 
After yesterday. those holes do not look so big, and another honor might be headed in Notre Dame's direction. The verbal commitments of several prep standouts have come fast and furious and that honor, the nation's best rm~ruiting class, is a possibility if the verbal commitments turn into written onns on Wednnsday's national signing day. 
Over the weekend, Ron Powlus, the All-American quarterback, verbally addnd his name to the 199:{ roster over Irish gridiron rivals Pittsburgh, Miami and Penn State. Let's indulge in a little quart1~rback comparison for a moment: 
Mirer's career high school stats include 6.586 passing yards and 44 touchdowns. Powlus finisht>d up his prep career with over 7,500 passing yards and 103 touchdowns not to mention he posted these numbers in talent-rich Pennsylvania. 
Okay, so Notre Dame grabbed a highly-touted quarterback, but one star does not a top recruiting class make. 
You must consider that one of the top running backs in the country verbally committed to Notre Dame yesterday. Handy Kinder of East Lansing, Mich. snubbed the hometown Spartan fans and picked the Irish over Michigan State, Miehigan, and Stanford. 
No one knows if Kinder can replace "Thunder and Lightning," but he's a gmat recruiting catch. 
Still, it is going to be hard to convince the critics that this year's recruiting
• 
class is the nation's best until you replace Hentrich, the Irish's high scorer. 
Over the weekend, Brian Ford, a standout punter who dabbles in placekicking, verbally committed to the Irish over Vanderbilt. Ford's senior year average of 44 yards per punt is just below Hentrich's 44.3 average. In 
addition, Ford hit 5-of-13 field goals this year with a long of 40 yards. Hen­trich's prep field goal numbers are slightly better. 
Whether or not the future freshmen mature into collegiate All-Americans can only be told by time, but right now it is safe to say that, if these players sign on the dotted line on Wednesday, Notre Dame will have one of the best recruiting classes in the country. 
Editor's Note: The Observer will have more information on all the 1993 recruits after Wednesday. 
.. 
INSIDE SPORTS 


Fencers stand fast in the face of east coast competition 

By KEVIN JANICKI 
Sports Writer 
It was supposed to be the toughest meet of the year for both fencing squads, but the Irish fencers fared well on their east coast trip over the weekend, according to men's coach Mike DeCicco. 
The Notre Dame men's fencing team improved its record to 14-1 while the women bettered their record to 9-2 in New York and Princeton, New Jersey. 
The Irish men earned four victories on the weekend, most notably a 16-11 win over defending NCAA champions Columbia. Other wins came against Rutgers, St. John's, and NYU on Saturday. 
On Sunday, the Irish fell to Princeton 17-10. Their only loss of the weekend snapped a 4 7 -game winning streak, which was the third longest in Irish history. 
The difference in the victory over Columbia was the performance of the sabre team which was without senior captain James Taliaferro. Chris Hajnick came through by beating Columbia's top sabreman 5-2 to break a 4-4 tie in the sabre event. Hajnick had been a foilist until several weeks ago, and has recently stepped up to deliver big wins for the Irish. 
"The sabre team was the biggest surprise. especially since we were without James," commented DeCicco. "Some of our young guys had big meets." 
The epee squad posted a 7-2 win over Columbia led by junior Grzegorz Wozniak and seniors Geoff Pechinsky and Per Johnsson. The Irish foilists fell to Columbia 5-4. 
"We had a letdown Sunday," said DeCicco, referring to the loss to Princeton, "But we still came away 4-1 against five tough teams from the east. This is a great way to measure ourselves against the top teams around the country and will give our fencers some confi­dence in the future." 
The Irish women were able to beat Princeton along with Rutgers, St. John's, and NYU. However, Columbia edged the Irish 9-7 in a close match. Freshman star Claudette de Bruin went 3-1 on Saturday against some of the nation's best to lead Notre Dame. 

Irish seek ninth against Bonnies 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame men's basketball team (8-9) is getting closer to where it wants to be. After almost upsetting the UCLA Bruins on Sunday afternoon, the Irish are looking to maintain their intensity when they face St. Bonaventure (9-7) for the first time since the 1988-89 season tonight at the Joyce ACC. 
"The UCLA game was, obvi­
Notre Dame ously, in our vs. opinion a very 
St. Bonaventure
wonderful game. We had op­

1 p.m.@ JXct;:.:'.::·,,
portunities. We

couldn't finish the L________________--...J 
game. We couldn't complete the task. but I think the game indicates to our players that we have shown improvement." said head coach John MacLeod. 
St. Bonaventure comes into the game with a two-game los­ing streak after dropping games to West Virginia and Massachusetts. Despite these two losses, they boast four players in double figures. 
Forward Harry Moore leads the team with 19.7 points and 
8.1 rebounds per game and has connected on 85 of 131 free throws. MacLeod feels the inside player should be a factor in the game. 
"We don't have anyone close to that (attempted free throws) on our team which indicates he's taking the ball to the basket and we don't have anyone like that on our team." said MacLeod. 
Hounding off the hot-shooting foursome are guard Nii Nelson-Richards (13.6 ppg), forward Garland Mance (13.3) and guard David Vanterpool (11. 9) not far behind. Monty 
Billy Taylor and the Irish basketball team will try to even their record at 
see HOOPS/page 8 
9-9 tonight against St. Bonaventure. 
Track teams wear MCC crowns again 
Herman qualifies, Miller just misses NCAAs 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
This past Friday the Notre Dame indoor track and field team captured their 9th consecutive MCC championships. The Fighting Irish scored a total of 116 points demolishing their competition by 64 points. 
"We had a lot of very good performances tonight," said Notre Dame Track Coach Joe Piane. 
Topping the list was the victory of Todd Herman in the high jump competition. Herman high jumped 7'2" and au­tomatically qualified for the NCAA Championship meet. This height was a personal record for the junior, who had proposed to his girlfriend before the event. 
'Tve never even looked at that height before," said Herman. 
Other outstanding performances in the field events came from Notre Dame sophomore Dan Grenough who capture the MCC indoor pole vault crown with a personal record of 14'6", and freshman phenom Mike Fleisch. Fleisch won the shotput with a toss of 47'10'. 
Probably the most heated competition of the night was the men's. 5000 meters. Through the first half of the race Notre Dame's J.R. Meloro and Nick Radkewich broke away from the pack and led the race along with Matt Stull from LaSalle. 
Meloro gambled late in the race and made a surge, leaving Radkewich and Stull to battle it out for second place some twenty feet behind him. Radkewich chased down Meloro, and going into the bell lap Radkewich was only a step behind his teammate. 
When the bell sounded Meloro took his cue and put on a kick in the last 300 meters. He finished with a time of 
14:52.76 and captured his second straight MCC championship victory in the 5000 meters. 
"I wanted to show what I could do this early in the season. I think I'm still getting fit so this bodes well for the rest of the season for me." said Meloro. 
The meet was also an excellent outing for Mike Miller who was up against stiff competition in LaSalle sprinter John Hunter for the 55 meter and 200 meter dash. With a time of 6.2 seconds in the 55 meters, Miller won the event and missed qualifying for the NCAA cham­
see MEN/page 1 0 

Peterson leads women 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's track team cruised to a victory this past Friday at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. held at the Meyo Track and Field at the Loftus Sports Center. 
"It was nice to have a meet in the same place where we practice," said freshman Erica Peterson, who dominated the meet, setting conference records in the 200 and 400 meter dashes and also finishing first in the 55 meter hurdles. Her outstanding performance earned her both Newcomer of the Meet and Athlete of the Meet honors. 
Peterson had help from a tremendous supporting cast. Other first place finishers included Karen Harris in the shotput, Susan Maher in the high jump, Tricia Joseph in the triple jump, Stefanie Jensen in the 3000 meter run, and Kristi Kramer, who set a new conference record in the 5000 meter run. 1\vo relay teams, the 4x440 and 4x880 teams also came away with victories. 
The Irish won the meet with 188 points, followed by Loyola with 74, 
see WOMEN/page 1 0 




