

Wednesday, September 22, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 18 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Yeltsin disbands parliament, US supports 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton endorsed Russian President Boris Yeltsin's decision to disband parliament and set new elec­tions Tuesday. "I support him fully," Clinton said as his secre­tary of state brushed aside questions about the legality of Yeltsin's actions. 
Clinton issued a statement of support after calling Yeltsin and asking for assurances that the Russian president would act in a way "that ensures peace, stability and an open political process this autumn." 
They spoke for 17 minutes, with Clinton telling the Russian leader that before he could de­clare his support he had to have some questions answered, a senior U.S. official said. 
Yeltsin readily assured him "this is going to be a free elec­tion" and everybody would have access to it. Clinton then issued his statement based on those assurances, the senior official told The Associated Press. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, meanwhile, said there was "no indication of any abnormal or unusual move­ments" by the Russian military. He said it had promised to remain "strictly neutral." 
The coordinated statements 
by Clinton and Christopher left 
an impression of unqualified 
backing for Yeltsin. "l am not 
going to get into a discussion of 
Russian constitutional and 
legal issues," Christopher said, 
brushing aside a reporter's 
question about whether Yeltsin 
had exceeded his authority un­
der Russian law. 
The bold move by the 
Russian leader took the Clinton 
administration almost by sur­
prise. The U.S. ambassador 
and other envoys were notified 
just an hour before Yeltsin 
acted, Christopher said. 
Clinton, meanwhile, tele­
phoned Yeltsin, summoned his 
foreign policy advisers to the 
White House and then issued 
his statement. 
Conflict in Moscow 

President Boris Yeltsin moved to seize control of the Russian state Tuesday by ousting the hard-line congress and announcing December elections for a new parliament. The Congress of People's Deputies called his action a "coup d'etat," voted to impeach him and named Vice President Alexander Rutskoi acting president. Yeltsin and the congress have been locked in a dispute over the balance of powers. That balance was poorly defined in the Soviet-era Russian Constitution, which was written when the tightly disciplined Communist Party ran all government functions. 

President 

As the first democratically elected president in Russian history, Yeltsin's power is unclear. He proposes a new constitution, which would replace the Communist-era Congress of People's Deputies with a two-house legislature. He claims the right to hold a referendum to ascertain public trust in his 
administration. 
\larious ministries 
Technically subordinate to the President. 
The military 
Is commanded by the defense ministry, which is under the command of the president. They are also sworn to uphold the constitution, which declares the congress to be the supreme power. So far they have remained neutral. 

LEGISLATI\lE BRANCH Congress of People's Deputies 
The 1,033-member Congress can amend the constitution, which it has done on numerous occasions, redefining the balance of power. It voted in July to withdraw Yeltsin's power to make political and economic decrees without legislative review. 
Supreme Soviet 
The 247-member Supreme Soviet standing legislature is selected from the ranks of the Congress of People's Deputies. If the Congress of People's Deputies is disbanded, the Supreme Soviet will be disbanded, too. 
Russia's 13-member Constitutional Court was founded in the fall of 1991 to protect the constitution. It's chairman is appointed and confirmed by the Congress. 
ND Professor analyzes situation 
By KATIE MURPHY Institute for International News Writer Studies and counselor to the president of the republic of 
Russian President Boris Estonia. Yelstin's dissolution of the "It had to be done much ear­Congress of People's Deputies lier. The parliament had be­and the Supreme Soviet and come an obstacle to further de­announcement of new parlia­velopment," Grazin said. ment elections were long over­A number of recent events due, said Igor Grazin, faculty precipitated Yeltsin's order. fellow at Hellen Kellogg The Supreme Soviet's dismissal 
Earthquake, aftershocks rattle Oregon 
By JEFF BARNARD 
Associated Press 
KLAMATH FALLS, Ore. 

Crews cleared earthquake debris of bricks and broken glass from streets and side­walks Tuesday and half-eaten meals still sat on restaurant ta­bles where diners had fled hours earlier. 
Geologists warned that build­ings damaged by Monday night's quake could collapse as aftershocks rumbled through the area. 
More than 100 people refused to spend the night in their homes after the tremor, includ­ing one family who left California to get away from quakes. 
One motorist was killed by a rockslide. An 82-year-old woman died of an apparent 
~s h WASH. { 100km. I~
Portland f 
I OREGON ~ 
~(0\ Klamath 
~ 
~Falls 
NEV. 
PacifiC 
Ocean 
AP 

heart attack after she was frightened by the quake. 
The earthquake, which struck at 8:29 p.m. Monday, was upgraded Tuesday from 5.4 to 
5.7 on the Richter scale by the 
U.S. Geological Survey in Menlo Park, Calif. It was followed within three hours by after­shocks measuring 5.5 and 4.8 on the scale. 

"At that magnitude or greater, you can expect some damage," said George Priest, regional geologist for the state Department of Geology and Mineral Industries. "You can expect that buildings are going to be rattling down there for up to a month." 
The earthquake was felt more than 200 miles to the north, in Salem, and more than 100 miles to the south, in Redding, Calif. No significant damage was reported in Northern California. 
More than 100 people stayed in two Red Cross shelters, some of them sleeping in tents out­doors, some in their cars and some on cots set up in the gym­nasium. 
of Yegor Gaidar, the reformist Prime Minister of Russia and ideological ally of Yeltsin, and its slow-down of the privatiza­tion program contributed to Yeltsin's decision. The parlia­ment's attempt to pass a budget with a deficit equal to half of Russia's Gross Domestic 
see ANALYSIS I page 4 

Clinton, US hope service bill will unite 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH News Editor 
WASHINGTON 

In a move aimed at rebuild­ing the nation's communities and bolstering aid for higher education, President Bill Clinton signed the National Service and Community Service Trust Act yesterday on the South Lawn of the White House. 
Nearly 14,000 people joined Clinton to celebrate the pas­sage of the legislation that promises to engage partici­pants in up to two years of community service in exchange for money for college tuition or job training. 
In its fmal form, the national service initiative will offer eligi­ble individuals a modest stipend, healthcare and child­care, in addition to $4,725 a year in educational benefits. 
"This morning our Cabinet and the heads of our federal agencies were directed to redouble their efforts to use service community grass-roots service-to accomplish their fundamental mission," said Clinton. 
"We want them to help rein­vent our government to do more and cost less by creating new waves for citizens to fulfill the mission of the public," he said. "We believe that we can do that." 
Keeping in line with the pres­ident's tendency towards upbeat, pep-rally style events, the ceremony was indeed a cel­ebration-complete with an appearance by the rock band Soul Asylum. 
Under the tent America's 
Backyard, the masses gathered 
for the signing, making it one 
of the largest White House 
events in recent years, accord­
ing to Ethan Zindler of the 
see SERVICE I page 4 



Funding crunch forces HPC to reconsider 
By KATE CRISHAM 
News Writer 
Due to a lack of funding and interest, the continuation of the "Weekend Wheels" program, which transports students home from various off-campus locations in an effort to combat drunk driving, was debated at last night's Hall President's 

"The problem was a lack of publicity," explained HPC co­chairperson Chris Canzoniero. "Students either didn't know that the program existed, or they attached somewhat of a stigma to it." 
"However, we would like to get some sort of off-campus transportation system rolling as soon a,s possible," he said. 
A taxi voucher system, where students would be billed for their taxi rides at a later date, was also discussed. A commit­tee was established to discuss the viability of the two options. 
In other business, the council discussed the various changes proposed in the Colloquy 2000. 
"The colloquy represents a broad plan for the University's future," said Carroll Hall co­president Gregg Behr. "It is our duty to examine it and to push for the issues and rec-
see HPCI page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Liberation: 



Coming to 
Notre Dame 
Pretty soon, there will be condom machines on every floor. 
You'll have to pay a dollar a pop, but as stat­ed on soda machines across campus. "All rev­enues are used to assist in educational pur­suits." 
The day when condoms are displayed next to Smartfood in local vending machines may have to wait until 1994, but this week, Notre Dame will take a bold step toward becoming a fully co-educational, sex­

ually liberated campus. 
Sometime Friday morn-Rolando de Aguiar ing, twenty-four hour visi­Viewpoint Editor tation will become a reali­ty on the first floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
This is a moment that students have fought for since the renovation of LaFortune in the early 80s: the opportunity to spend some quiet time with their special someones very near the Huddle. 
Think of the scene: the luxurious particle­board and Herculon furniture of LaFortune's first-floor lounge. The pure white lights of the flourescent tubes buzzing overhead. And Whoopi Goldberg jabbering on the big-screen TV. Could anything be more romantic? 
The Notre Dame administration is breaking new ground in the nationwide fight for on-cam­pus sexual liberation. If these daring efforts continue, women and men might soon start mingling in the dining halls, and (cross your rmgers) respecting each other. 
But for now, we must think of the current reality. 
Twenty-four hours together in LaFortune. A chance to do for free what they can spend $22.95 for at several local motels: Stay up past bedtime talking with someone with sexual organs different from their own. And they might do more than talk. If the moment is right, they may just touch. 
Once again. Notre Dame has jumped ahead of many backward-thinking public universities in a creative effort to improve gender relations. The day when men and women have the oppor­tunity to live in the same building with mem­bers of the opposite sex is not far away. 
On Thursday night, 24-hour space in the Student Center will become a remarkable alter­native. Unlike other such areas on campus, the lobby of LaFortune is large enough so that cou­ples who wish to co-habitate may be able to set up camp and sleep there. Just make sure to have the tent picked up before the University starts selling ND paraphernalia on football weekends. You wouldn't want to hinder sales by blocking the paths of alumni intent on buy­ing another sweatshirt. 
And soon, sweatshirts might not be all they'd be buying. Think of the merchandising oppor­tunities created by a Notre Dame campus char­acterized by free love. 
There'd be silk sheets with an interlocking ND pattern. Body butter endorsed by the Oak Room. And, of course, Golden Dome® brand condoms. 
If they hung 'em up next to the Smartfood and sold 'em at a buck apiece, the amount of vending machine revenue put toward educa­tional pursuits would likely go through the roof. 
And gender relations at Notre Dame would be very, very different from what they are today. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Nancy Dunn T.J. Harris Suzy Fry Production Spons Ron Veldman Rian Akey Carolyn Wilkens Viewpoint Kathie Young Michael O'Hara Graphics Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2"4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObSC'rver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Tuitions outpace inflation 
College. costs ~'· 
Average tuition and fees excluding room and board: ..,. 
•

BOSTON The cost of higher education continues to outpace income, inflation and 
$12,000financial aid this fall, even as colleges and universities slash services, accord­ing to the College Board. 

private 4-year
10,000 
oooOOOOOO,OHOOOO.. ooo<otoooooooo-ofooooo•

The average tuition, room and board climbed 6 percent to $6,207 at 
four-year public universities and 5 percent to $15,818 at four-year private col­leges, the College Board reported in a survey being released Wednesday. The increases were about the same, or slightly less, than last year's, 
8,000 •··········"· as competition sharpened for the dwindling number of potential students. "Colleges have simply come to realize that the very markets they wish to .serve ~ould not afford them at the rate of increase they were following," 
6,000said David Warren. president of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. 

4,000

"People are dropping out," said Tchiyuka Cornelius, a student at City University of New York and president of the U.S. Student Association. "There are people who want to go to college but just can't afford to." 
. . While inflation was 2.~ percen.t from last fall to this fall, the average tmtwn and fees at four-year pnvate umversities and colleges rose 6 percent to $11,025; room and board brought the total to $15,818. The average cost of two-year private junior colleges went up 7 percent, to $6,175. 
Public university tuition rose 8 percent, to $2,527, after two years of double-digit increases fueled primarily by state budget shortfalls; room and board boosted the price to $6,207. The average cost of community and public Source: The College Board APNJm. J. Castello junior colleges jumped 10 percent for the third straight year, to $1,229. 


"The fiscal crisis in the states is not over," said James Appleberry, president of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. "But it's certainly easing up a bit." 
Still, 38 percent of public universities have put off making repairs to buildings, 30 percent have capped enrollment, 31 percent have cut the number of courses they offer and 45 percent have left full-time faculty positions unfilled, the association said. 
'.'~ublic institutions continue t~ be .~nd~r great pressure to increase tuition, but I think they're also under great poh~Ical ~ress~re t~ hold ~own pnces, said Donald Stewart, president of the College Board. Fman~ml aid-mcludmg feder~l ..state ~nd institutio.nal money-also still isn't keeping pace, the College Board and the mdependent college assocmtwn said, though nmther had firm estimates for this year yet. 
Between 1980 and 1990, the cost of higher education went up 126 percent, while federal financial aid rose 47 percent, according to the independent college association. Students have increasingly relied on loans borrowing more than $16 billion last year. ' 
Drug causes lethal toxicity Chess champion wins again 
LONDON Federal scientists pursuing a cure for hepatitis B say 
ROCKVILLE, Md. 
Garry Kasparov increased his lead in the breakaway they took all the usual precautions before using an 
world chess championship Tuesday, decisively beating experimental drug on patients. But five of those patients 
challenger Nigel Short in 36 moves to take a command­died and now the scientists are trying to figure out why. 
ing lead after seven games. There was nothing to predict the sudden, unrelenting and deadly poison that built up in the patients' bodies 
Grandmasters called it the best game of the match so and killed them despite extreme and heroic measures, 
far for Kasparov, the highest-rated player in history, but Dr. Jay Hoofnagle, a National Institutes of Health 
he was diplomatic in comments about his English chal­researcher, said Tuesday. 
lenger. "I don't think he will lie down and die. lie will fight. "This toxicity was not expected at all," he said. "It 
My greatest danger is to lose concentration," Kasparov had not been described previously. It is apparently a 
said after the game that put him ahead by 5 1/2 points new type of toxicity." 
to 1 1/2. The five patients who died were participating in a trial of an anti-viral drug called FIAU. 
He had no trouble with his concentration Tuesday, The deaths sent a chill through the research commu­
saying he didn't even notice the visit of Princess Diana. nity. 
The estranged wife of Prince Charles spent about half an All of the proper procedures had been followed for 
hour in the auditorium watching play. FIAU. It had been tested extensively in animals, in labo­
Short did not speak to reporters after the game. ratory tissue and in earlier short tests on a smaller num­
Kasparov, playing white and using the Ruy Lopez be~ of patients. Researchers at Eli Lilly and Company, opening, gradually built an advantage in the early which developed the drug, and at NIH could find no evi­
moves. dence that it would cause serious toxicity in humans. 
England's No. 2 grandmaster, Michael Adams, criti­Results of the tests suggested FIAU had a dramatic 
cized Short for allowing Kasparov to place a knight on a effect on hepatitis B, a chronic viral infection that can 
powerful central outpost on the 21st move. destroy the liver by causing cancer or cirrhosis. "This drug was the most potent we had ever seen 
After 34 moves Adams commented: "It's all over." against the hepatitis B virus," said Hoofnagle. 
The Times newspaper of London and Teleworld Starting in February, the NIH researchers began giv­
Holdings, based in Rotterdam. Netherlands, are spon­ing the drug to patients in a long-term trial that was 
soring the match, which has a $2.55 million purse. designed to eventually include 25 patients. If this trial 
The players have pledged 10 percent of the purse to worked, then the drug would be offered to many more 
the Professional Chess Association, which they formed in patients in an expanded trial. 
February to rival the world chess federation FIDE. 
p~u:b;l:w~4;~~e:a~r_..-~~--­
2,000 ­
rr 

INDIANA Weather NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 22
Wednetday, Sept. 22 Accu"Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
.......--..-....a....a... .............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1993 Accu"Weather.lnc. 
Prsssure 

H L B &SI rr:!1 0 ~ §ll 0. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa AIJSOCiatfKI PI'NS

KY. 
Cleveland 71 56 New York 62 52 Athens 75 63 
H L 

Oallas 95 72 Paris 71 59 lnpianapolis 71 58 Philadelphia 68 58Atlanta 88 71 Jerusalem 82 61 Reno 77 40Bogota 73 60
4,~,~4.Q.~ (f ~ £2 
London 64 57 Rome 84 66Boston 60 so 
Showers T"storms Rain A.;rrles 5';,;; Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Los Angeles 76 65 Tokyo 73 66
Chicago 63 57 Vw Assoculted Pr&ss GmphicsNet 01993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Minneapolis 60 52 Washington, D.C. 74 60 

Wednesday, September 22, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 


SMC sacrifices recycling effort 
By PATf.I CARSON 
News Writer 
Due to the lack of finances, a campus wide recycling pro­gram at Saint Mary's is not pos­sible at this time, said Student Body President Mary Beth Wilkinson at last night's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting. 
BOG MEETING 
Only 25 percent of the cans on campus are actually recy­cled, according to John Marshall, director of building and grounds. There also will be no paper recycling bin on campus until there is a paper recycling plant nearby, he said. The costs and human resources needed to run such a program cannot be met at this time, 
according to Marshall. In other business: 
•
Elections for the Freshman class will be held Tuesday, September 28. Run-offs will be held on September 30 if neces­sary. 

•BOG 
approved a new social science club called Pi Sigma Alpha. This organization is headed by Professor Patrick Pierce and is ideal for a Political Science major. Requirements include a 3.3 GPA and ten semester course hours. 

•Upcoming 
events for the month of October in­clude"Murder Mysteries" at Dalloway's coffeehouse on October 4. A masquerade ball is planned for October 16. October also marks the time 



that Augusta Hall students busily work on the design and distribution of a T -shirt which will be available to all Saint Mary's students. 
•Campus 
ministry is planning a World Youth Day Reunion Retreat to take place on October 17. 

•Campus 
Ministry is asking for volunteers to help load the truck that will be delivering aid to Midwest flood victims before October break. Anyone inter­ested in spending the break helping the victims should con­tact Campus Ministry. 

•An 
alumna speaker, Mary Beth New will come to campus on December 2 to speak to Communications majors. She is the president of a Washington public relations company. 


This wasn't your 21s~, but yesterday was! Hope you had as much fun! HAPPY 21st LAURA! 
Love, 
The Social Group 




Purdue Road Trip 
Catch the Actiorz! 


Harvard settles sex discrimination suit 
By KATHARINE WEBSTER 
Associated Press 
CAMBRIDGE. Mass. 
Harvard Law School will pay $260,000 to a domestic vio­lence institute to settle a sex discrimination lawsuit by a for­mer professor who says she was wrongly denied tenure. 
Under the settlement an­nounced Tuesday, the school will contribute the money over three years to the Northeastern University School of Law's Domestic Violence Institute. 
The settlement was negoti­ated on the eve of a scheduled 
page~ 
The ObserverfT eck Teng 

Planning for the future 
Saint Mary's students Laura Zion and Ann Jagodzinski meet with Proctor and Gamble representative Jim Mock. 

hearing on Clare Dalton's law­suit before the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination. 
Dalton, who is now a profes­sor at Northeastern's law school, helped found its Domestic Violence Institute. The institute trains law stu­dents to represent women and children who are victims of domestic violence. 
"This is a price that Harvard is paying for gender discrimi­nation. Harvard's money is being put into resources for women who suffer the most egregious form of gender dis­crimination," Dalton said. 
Her lawsuit claimed that Harvard gave tenure to five men with similar or lesser cre­dentials than her in 1987, the same year she was passed over. 
Harvard attorney Anne Taylor said the university ad­mitted no fault in the case and was pleased with the settlement suggested by Dalton. 
"It's an inventive, creative, future-looking resolution that benefits not only the immediate parties, but women and chil­dren who will have the benefit of these expanded services," she said. 


GSU sponsors insurance information session 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Associate News Editor 
The Graduate Student Union is sponsoring an information forum on health insurance for graduate students tonight at 7 
p.m. in Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. 
Carol Seager, director of Notre Dame Student Health Services, and Dr. Jim Powell, Associate Dean of the Graduate School, will give brief presenta­tions on the current University health insurance policy and dis­cuss the newly created ND Graduate Family Medical Care Assistance Program. 
They will be available after­ward to answer questions and concerns graduate students may have on these topics. 
Members of the ad hoc GSU Committee on Health Insurance will also be present to discuss current efforts to examine the concerns and issues related to graduate student insurance. 
"The reason we are having this forum is to answer any questions graduate students have about obtaining health in­surance as the October dead­line to carry some kind of in­surance approaches," said Rita Francis, president of the GSU. 

Notre Dame vs. Purdue Septetnber 25th 
Round trip bus transportation to Ross~Ade Stadiun1 
(Buses leave at 10:00 a1n fron1 CCE) 

Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info Desk 



24HOUR SPACE! 
1st Floor LaFortune now open 
every 
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday 
Student tickets to garne now available 
at the LaFortune Info Desk 




24-HOUR SPACE! 


Analysis 
continued from page 1 
Product also influenced the 
dissolution, Grazin added. 
"He took this action because 
for the last two years Russian 
politics have been a constant 
confrontation and contradic­
tion between the president of 
Russia and the Congress of 
People's Deputies and the 
Supreme Soviet," said Grazin. 
The current parliament was 
elected in the spring of 1990 
when Russia was still a mem­
ber of the Soviet Union. Since 
communism on the federal 
level has ceased to exist, the 
parliament represents the 
remnants of Soviet institu­
tions, Grazin said. Yeltsin, 
however, was elected in a 
democratic referendum last 
April, long after the dissolution 
of the Soviet system. The two 
sides have consistently clashed 
in their attempts to govern 
Russia and usher in economic 
reforms. 
Although Yeltsin acknowl­edges that his order to abolish parliament is technically un­constitutional, he is armed with more popular support and legal legitimacy than the parliament. According to Grazin, Yeltsin's "legal author­ity" is higher since he was elected under the democratic system, rather than under Soviet rule. 
"From the natural legal point 
of view, an illegitimate parlia­
ment cannot legislate to any­
body," said Grazin. 
The parliament's appoint­ment of Vice President Alexander Rutskoi, a former military leader who criticized the pace of reforms, as acting president should not "mean too much," stated Grazin. Although Rutskoi and Yelstin were elected on the same tick­et, Rutskoi's new position is being dictated by an illegiti­mate governing body, Grazin said. 

In the next few days, the probability of violence will be low, but Grazin anticipates that there will be "lots of very verbal artillery and threats." 
"There might be some acts of vandalism and rallies on the street. Let's hope that it will be bloodless. The August 1991 coup was much more serious," said Grazin. 
In the 1991 coup effort, three people died in clashes. This current chain of events is expected to materialize into a political battle, rather than a military coup, Grazin stated. 
While the situation in Russia does not show a tendency to violence, Grazin admits he is concerned about the state of affairs of the various republics, especially Estonia. The lack of clear leadership above the Russian troops stationed in Estonia may cause some prob­lems, said Grazin. 
As a result of the dissolution of the Russian parliament, the election of the new parliament, and approval of a new constitution may lead to the establishment of a true Russian republic, according to Grazin. 
"Russia and Yeltsin deserve some moral and political sup­port because Americans must view it as a huge, friendly na­tion trying to establish itself as a democratic nation," he said. 
CORRECTION 
In yesterday's edition of The Observer, the name of the campus group Sex Offense Services (S.O.S.) was incor­rectly stated. 
The Observer regrets the er­ror. 
The Observer • NEWS 

Service 
continued from page 1 
White House Office of National Service. 
A generous proportion of those in attendance were youths from a number of cur­rent service organizations, including a model program, the Youth Conservation Corps in Maryland, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Washington D.C. 
Clinton first introduced the plan for a national service pro­gram while on the campaign trail last year. Yesterday, with the stoke of two historic pens­one that gave life to the Civilian Conservations Corps, the other to the Peace Corps-he intro­duced the new corporation for national and community ser­vice-AmeriCorps. 
Eli Segal, currently assistant to the President and director of White House Office of National Service, Eli Seqal, was honored at the ceremony with a nomi­nation for AmeriCorps' chief executive officer. 
"This national service bill and this project would not be in the form it is and we would not be here celebrating it today in the way we are if it had not been for his (Segal) brilliant, dedicat­ed leadership," said Clinton. 
But the bill signed by the President yesterday is a signifi­cantly scaled down version of his original proposal-both in 

Also discussed were the Multi-cultural Fall Festival,
HPC 

which will be held September continued from page I 26 thru October 2, and the an­
nual LaFortune Student Art ommendations supported by Show, which will be held the students." November 1 to November 15. 
CAPP Honor Society Presents 

Andersen Consulting 
Wednesday September 22, 1993 Hesburgh Library Lounge 7-8 pm Representatives will discuss opportunities at Andersen Consulting followed by a question and answer period. Refreshments will be served. 
All are Welcome!! 


.··IN·'·'····.········•u·... ,~H>~,',:s•••••·················•••••T:.••••··•••••······:·:··•••••?:R::,..·····r•••·•••
....···: •.•,...·..·.·.··• ... ······.. . ...· ·····:·. ·····.. ·····..···.···········...:············ ............ . .......•...•.. .. 

SEPTEMBER 22 INDUSTRY FAIR 
11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. Fitzpatrick Hall (floor 1 and 2) 
REPRESENTATIVES FROM OVER 20 MAJOR COMPANIES OPPORTUNITIES FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT AND SUMMER INTERNSHIPS BRING YOUR RESUMES! 

.Sponsored by'.theJofutEngfueeiing Council· ...,•...Sgciety pf?Y?-!:!~~· Engineers 
the number of participant and in the amount of money award­ed. 
In the first year, 20,000 indi­viduals will receive up to $4,275 a year in education ben­efits. The number of partici­pants then is expected to climb to 100,000 over the next three years. 
Originally, Clinton proposed a more extensive-more expen­sive-program including 25,000 participants in the first year extending to 150,000 by the third. Because cf the costs involved, the legislation was limited. 
Although the scope of the bill in its final form was dimin­ished, the integrity of the legis­lation has remained intact, according to Zindler. 
The program is the "right size," said Zindler after the celebration. "We are confident that we will get to the 100,000 participants." 
The national service legisla­tion is a both a challenge for America's youths to improve their nation and an educational opportunity, according to Clinton. 
"But beyond the concrete achievements cf AmeriCorp ... (national service) will help us to strengthen the cords that bind us together as a people; will help us to remember in the quiet of every night that of each of us can become is to some extent determined by whether all of us can become what God meant us to be." 
Wednesday, September 22, 1993 



Kevorkian's defense disputes his role in suicide 
By JULIA PRODIS 
Associate Press 
REDFORD TOWNSHIP, Mich. 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian left his calling card at the deathbed of Donald O'Keefe, supplying the same equipment he used to help another man commit sui­cide, a prosecutor argued in court Tuesday. 
But Kevorkian's lawyer, Geoffrey Fieger, said the pros­ecutor "doesn't have an iota, a scintilla, a speck of evidence" that Kevorkian actually helped O'Keefe die Sept. 9 -no mat­ter what role he played in other suicides. 
O'Keefe and Thomas Hyde, whom Kevorkian has acknowl­edged helping commit suicide on Aug. 4, both had a string tied with a slip knot around 


BENGAL BOUTS . NOVICE TRAINING 
Begins Monday, September 27 
Meet just inside Gate 3 ofthe J.A. C. C. at 4:00pm for an informational meeting 
····D···· ~········ 
. 
their index fingers to help re­lease a flow of deadly carbon monoxide from a canister. Both canisters were painted a flat black and the serial numbers and labels were sanded off. 
"This was signature-type ev­idence," Wayne County Assistant Prosecutor Tim Kenny said during Kevorkian's preliminary hearing on a charge that he broke Michigan's law banning as­sisted suicide. The hearing was scheduled to continue Sept. 30. 
Kevorkian is accused of as­sisting in the death of O'Keefe, a retired auto worker suffering from bone cancer. 
The suicide occurred the same day Kevorkian was ordered by another judge to stand trial for the Aug. 4 as­sisted suicide of Hyde, 30, who suffered from Lou Gehrig's dis­ease. 
Dear Jeannie, We are very proud of you on your 21st birthday. 
Love, Mom & Dad 

J 
~ 
Wednesday, September 22, 1993 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 5 J 


Ex-Attorney General sentenced 
By TIM CURRAN 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

A judge rejected a plea-bar­
gain recommendation and sen­
tenced former state Attorney 
General William Webster to two 
years in prison Tuesday for 
using state employees and 
equipment in his gubernatorial 
campaign. 
Webster, who in eight years 
as attorney general was asso­
ciated with major U.S. Supreme 
Court rulings on abortion and 
the right to die, was ordered to 
surrender Jan. 20. 
He pleaded guilty in June to 
conspiracy and misapplying 
state resources to his unsuc­
cessful 1992 Republican cam­
paign for governor. Federal 
prosecutors agreed to recom­
mend the 18-month prison 
term, which wasn't binding on . the court. 
Near the end of an 11-day 
sentencing hearing, U.S. 
District Judge Brook Bartlett 
said Webster, 40, had falsely denied some allegations. "I cannot and will not go along with the recommendation for 18 months," the judge said. 
The plea bargain gave Webster the right to withdraw his plea if the judge sentenced him to more than 18 months, but Webster decided not to. 
Bartlett said he had decided against a fine, which under the sentencing guidelines could have ranged from $4,000 to $40,000, because of Webster's financial situation. 
In his plea bargain, Webster strongly denied using a little­known workers compensation fund, the Second Injury Fund, to reward attorneys who con­tributed to his gubernatorial campaign, and the judge said he found no evidence that Webster had. 
However, Bartlett ruled that Webster falsely denied in­stances of using state employ­ees and equipment for political purposes, destroying computer records before he left office in January, and having an em­ployee in his office baby-sit for his children. 
Testimony against Webster came from William Roussin and Morris Kessler, both St. Louis lawyers who are scheduled for sentencing this week on charges of defrauding the Second Injury Fund. Bartlett said their testimony wasn't credible. 
The fund provides benefits to people with disabilities who suffer a subsequent work-re­lated injury. Claims against it have mushroomed since the mid-1980s, with payments ris­ing from about $3 million a year to $30 million. 
Roussin, a special assistant attorney general who defended the fund against claims, testi­fied that plaintiffs' lawyers had to contribute to the Webster campaign before Roussin would discuss their cases. He also said he gave preferential treatment and bigger settlements to those lawyers and that Webster knew about it. 

Visa. It's Everywhere You Want To Be~ 


The Observer/Tack Tang 

Comedy on campus 
Two members of the Chicano Secret Service, a comedy troupe from L.A., perform their act Tuesday night in Washington Hall. 
Pan Am witness lies 
•


In account 
By RONALD POWERS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A key witness for Pan Am in a civil trial stemming from the terrorist bombing that blew up Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, was charged Tuesday with lying in his testimony about the attack. 
Lester Knox Coleman, a 49­year-old part-time Middle-East informant for the federal Drug Enforcement Administration, is accused of eight counts of per­jury for "materially false testi­mony" in a sworn affidavit about the case . 
Coleman, a fugitive believed 
to be living abroad, faces up to 
five years in prison and a 
$250,000 fine on each charge 
in the indictment returned by a 
federal grand jury in Brooklyn, 
N.Y. 

A copy was the indictment 
was made available by the 
Justice Department. 
Pan American World Airways 
and its attorney, James 
Shaughnessy, attempted to use 
Coleman's statements, sworn 
before the American consul in 
Brussels, Belgium, in April 
1991, to show the Boeing 747 
jetliner was blown up by inter­
national drug dealers. 
In allegations widely circu­
lated in news reports but re­
jected by the judge in the civil 
trial that grew out of the 
attack, Pan Am maintained 
that U.S. security agencies 
knowingly allowed unexamined 
baggage to pass through secu­
rity checks at airports in a nar­
cotics sting operation. 
Free Willy (PG) 1:45 4:15 6:45 9:00 
Jurassic Park (PG13) 
1:30 4:15 7:00 9:45 
Striking Distance (R) 
2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 
The Secret Garden (G) 
2:00 4:30 6:45 8:45 
Sleepless In Seattle (PG) 
2:30 5:00 7:15 9:30 
True Romance (R) 
2:15 5:00 7:30 10:00 


Muslims progress in peace talks 
By MONIKA SCISLOWSKA 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland 
Leftists, the big winners in parliamentary elections, opened talks Tuesday on form­ing a coalition government. The centrist party of Prime Minister Hanna Suchocka, which was unseated in the vote, refused to join. 
Her Democratic Union party cited the Communist roots of the Democratic Left Alliance in announcing its decision. The Alliance finished first in Sunday's ballot with more than 20 percent of the vote, accord­ing to preliminary results. The Alliance now is figured to win 173 of the 460 seats in the Sejm, the powerful lower house of Parliament. 
Final tallies are expected Wednesday. 
"The Democratic Union is crossing over to the opposition and this decision is irrevoca­ble," said party official Jan Maria Rokita, chief of the de­parting Cabinet. The Democratic Union is forecast to win 69 seats. 
The Alliance invited the Polish Peasant's Party to join a coalition. The party emerged as the second-strongest force in Polish politics with an esti­mated 128 seats. 

Polish leftists begin discussions for coalition 
tion than any time before," 
U.N. envoy Thorvald Stoltenberg told reporters in Zagreb, Croatia. 
Izetbegovic has resisted pres­
sure from Serbs, Croats, and 
the international community to 
agree to a division of Bosnia­
Herzegovina into three ethni­
cally based ministates. The par­
tition plan would give the 
Sarajevo government about 31 
percent of the country. Serbs 
would get 52 percent and 
Croats 17 percent. · The Bosnia president has 
demanded secure access to the 
Adriatic Sea through Croatia's 
narrow Dalmatian coastal re­
gion and the return of more 
territory from Serbs in eastern 
Bosnia. 
In negotiations Monday, Izetbegovic said Croatia had of­fered a strip of land on the Croatian coast, a 99-year lease on port facilities, and a port on the Neretva River. 
"I don't think this is the best solution, but I think it satisfies the needs of Bosnia-
Although both parties are leftist, their programs could prove stumbling blocks to form­ing a coalition. Each wants to increase the 5 percent budget deficit but in different economic areas. Each also wants the prime minister's job. 
If the two parties reach agreement, they could muster 301.votes on their own, five short of the two-thirds majority required to change the consti­tution. But other parties could be persuaded to join. 
Leaders of both parties sought to assure the West after the vote that they will hold to the conservative financial re­forms that have made Poland's economy the fastest growing in Europe this year. 
The consensus is that nothing should be done to hurt chances for swift acceptance into the 
NATO  alliance  and  the  
European Community.  
Meeting  in  Gdansk  on  

Tuesday, presidents Francois Mitterrand of France, Richard von Weizsaecker of Germany and Lech Walesa of Poland said they want ·to speed up European integration. 
Following a half-hour meet­ing, Von Weizsaecker said that Germany and France were committed to supporting Poland's efforts to obtain full EC membership. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 


TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING wrm PROFESSOR CARLOS JEREZ-FARRAN 
Thursday, September 23, 1993 4:30pm Room 125 DeBnrtolo 
HrturninJ,: shuh·uls will he nn haml In ans\\rr 'IUCslinns 




ST.IDIARD'S 
HALL FORUM 

Father Beauchamp 

Executive Vice President 
speaks on 

"TARNISH AND THE DOME" 
TONIGHT 


7:00p.m. At St. Edward's Hall 
By GEORGE JAHN 
Associated Press 

SARAJEVO 
Bosnia's Muslim President Alija Izetbegovic reported progress Tuesday on a key is­sue blocking a peace agree­ment: his demand for giving a Muslim ministate secure access to the sea. 
lzetbegovic commented after returning to Sarajevo from a summit of' leaders of the coun­try's three warring factions on a British warship in the Adriatic Sea. His remarks also signaled some movement on another outstanding issue ­the division of eastern Bosnia. 
lzetbegovic's comments indi­cated new movement and flexi­bility on all sides as the warring Serbs, Croats and Muslims edge closer to a peace agreement. 
International mediators ex­pressed optimism, although completion of the peace deal remained elusive. 
"I don't take anything for granted, but I believe we can say that we are closer to a solu-Herzegovina," lzetbegovic told reporters. 
In eastern Bosnia, Izetbegovic said Serbs had offered "slight, insignificant concessions." 
lzetbegovic and government officials say that territory Serbs seized in 18 months of war should not remain in Serb hands. "I will accept that only if I have to," he said Tuesday. 
Izetbegovic has for months balanced the increasing war­weariness of Sarajevans with demand from refugees and oth­ers not to accede to Serb con­trol of once Muslim-dominated areas. 
He knows he must wring con­cessions to make the deal acceptable to his republic, while Serbs and Croats are aware of the political dangers of giving up too much. 
Meanwhile, Croats and Bosnian government forces continued to battle around the city of Mostar. The Croats ap­parently averted encirclement in an advance by the Bosnian army. 


~ 
HEALTH CARE PRESENTATION Informational Session 
All Graduate Students, Faculty & Staff Invited! 
Wednesday, Sept. 22nd@ 7 PM Montgomery Theatre (LaFortune) 
Special Guest-Ms. Carol Seager Director of University Health Services 
-sponsored by the GRADUATE STUDENT UNION­



PROCTER & GAMBLE 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS DNISION 
Invites interested students to learn more about career and internship opportunities available at Procter & Gamble! 
PRESENTATION AND PIZZA 
Wednesday, September 22 at 7p.m. Morris Inn-Alumni Room 
For Students Majoring in: Engineering, MIS, Applied Math, CAPP, MBA 
. (Visit P&G at Industry Day, as well!) 
---~--. ---..----~-­

-------------------------------------------------------------·--------~--~------------~------~ 
Wednesday, September 22, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 7 


Arafat supporter gunned Leading democrat against NAFTA 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER of living will continue to stag­that critics have complaineddown in wake of accord Associated Press nate or decline." that the side agreements don't The administration had go far enough in addressing Associated Press when he stepped from the car, WASHINGTON worked hard to win Gephardt's environmental and wage con­Arab reports said. A prominent House support for NAFTA with the cerns, but he said defeat of GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip "My uncle was great in his Democrat, Majority Leader supplemental agreements that NAFT A would make the dis­
Masked gunmen assassinated speech, talking about peace. Richard Gephardt, declared on would allow the United States crepancy between the two a prominent supporter of PLO People hugged him and kissed Tuesday that he would vote to impose trade sanctions countries even worse. chairman Yasser Arafat him for his peace words, but against what he called a against Mexico for failure to "If we beat this, the gap will Tuesday, the first such killing the assailants finished his life," "deeply flawed" North enforce its labor and environ­be greater than if we pass it," since the PLO signed a peace said the victim's niece, Maha American mental laws. he said. "In effect, they're mak­accord with Israel. Abu Shaaban. Free Trade But Gephardt said that the ing the perfect the enemy of the 
Muhammad Abu Shaaban, a "This is a political assassina­Agreement. arbitration process that the good." 38-year-old lawyer, was shot tion," she said."This is a sabo­President United States would have to go But opponents hailed dead as he was leaving a rally tage of peace." Clinton insist­through before imposing sanc­Gephardt's decision. Jim Jontz, of several thousand Abu Shaaban, who led a Gaza ed that the tions was too convoluted. director of the Citizens Trade Palestinians who demonstrated Strip political committee advis­defection "Despite the best efforts of Campaign, an umbrella group in support of the peace pact in ing Palestinian negotiators to the No. President Clinton and his ad­for labor unions, environmen­Gaza City's Zeytoun quarter, the U.S.-backed Mideast peace Democrat in ministration to remedy the talists and others opposed to Arab and Israeli reports said. talks, was a popular figure the House flaws in the Bush-negotiated the pact, said Gephardt's deci­
Relatives of Abu Shaaban known for his charity work in would not be Richard NAFTA, the agreement is not a sion would likely sway other blamed opponents of the ac­the area. fatal but Gephardt sufficient force for progress," undecided Democrats in the cord for the killing. Since the PLO-Israeli agree­opponents Gephardt said. "I am announc­House. 
Leaders of Palestinian ex­ment was announced two hailed the announcement as ing that I will vote against this "This is one more nail in the 
tremist groups opposing the weeks ago, Abu Shaaban led "one more nail in the coffm" of NAFTA." coffin of NAFTA," he said. 
accord have vowed to sabotage the organization of pro-agree­the effort to erect a continent­Gephardt's opposition fol­"Gephardt's rejection of the 
it with violence, and even ment rallies. wide free trade zone. lowed the defection of the No. 3 notion that it is this agreement 
threatened to kill Arafat. Abu Shaaban was accompa­Gephardt told a packed news Democrat in the House, Rep. or nothing is critical." 
But Arab reports said that nied by his brother, his 13-conference that supplemental David Bonior, D-Mich., who has House Speaker Thomas 
Muhammad Abu Shahan, leader of Arafat's mainstream Fatah faction in the Gaza Strip, might have been the victim of rivals within his own group. 
Israeli and PLO officials have warned that the treaty might lead to an upsurge in violence between its supporters and op­ponents in the occupied territo­ries. 
Masked men in two cars forced Abu Shahan's car off the road, spraying him with bullets year-old son and two body­guards, Palestinian reports said. His companions were not hurt. 
A top PLO official in Jordan said over the weekend that a 37 -man unit of Arafat's fighters has already been sent into the occupied territories to protect Palestinian leaders from ex­tremists. It was not immedi­ately known if members of the unit were accompanying Abu Shaaban. 

agreements negotiated by the Clinton administration did not go far enough to address fears that U.S. companies will con­tinue to move plants to Mexico to take advantage of lax en­forcement of environmental and labor laws. 
"Under this agreement we will not be doing the best for our people. We will reduce our abundance," Gephardt said. "Drawn down by the lower wages in Mexico, our standard been actively trying to line up votes against NAFTA. 
The administration hopes to overcome heavy losses from Democratic ranks by appealing to Republicans, who generally are more inclined to support proposals that reduce trade barriers. 
Asked about Gephardt's de­cision, Clinton said, "It doesn't help, but I don't think it's fa­tal." 
The president acknowledged Foley, D-Wash., a supporter of NAFTA, refused to criticize Gephardt. "All the issues he has raised are valid issues .... We have an honest disagree­ment," Foley told a news con­ference. 
"I don't think this is a per­sonal test for anyone," Foley said, adding that members will vote based on how the treaty would affect their constituents, "not based on trying to please the leadership." 
y y " 

-Jqnia,s Junio1s Ju~illl& Junie~a 
Sign up now for the 3 on 3 Basketball Classic. The Co-ed tournament will begin on October 3 through October 10. Each team must have a minimum of two Juniors and the $2 entrance fee will go towards prizes. A team captain can sign­up in Room 213 of LaFortune from 3:00­5:00 until Tuesday, September 28. 



WSND 88.9 FM 
Deposed Haitian leader demands UN sanctions 
By GEORGE GEDDA set back as anti-Aristide forces Associated Press have engaged in a rash of polit­ical killings in an effort to WASHINGTON derail an internationally bro­
As Haitian forces opposed to kered agreement signed on July democracy continue their cam­3. paign of violence, ousted A prime minister appointed President Jean-Bertrand by Aristide took office in late Aristide on Tuesday called on August and Aristide himself is the U.N. Security Council to due to return to Haiti on Oct. reinstate sanctions against that 30. He was deposed in a mili­
country. tary coup on Sept. 30, 1991. 
But Aristide indicated some U.N. officials have blamed ambiguity about the appropri­auxiliaries of the Haitian mili­ate U.N. role, initially telling a tary for recent violence, includ­
news conference sanctions ing the assassination of a lead­should be reviewed. Then he ing supporter of Aristide and recommended that they be the killings of five other reimposed. Aristide supporters. 
''I'm for it," he said. At least 20 other Haitians Hopes for a smooth return to have also been killed in sus­
democracy in Haiti have been pected political violence. Five people have died since Thursday. The Aristide-backed transition government has been unable to stop the killings. 
"Stop the killers, remove the killers, no to the killers," said Aristide, flanked by a delega­tion of Afro-American support­
ers. He said that government min­

WOULD LIKE YOUR INPUT! 
isters have been unable to go to their offices because of intimi­dation by thugs and that Prime Minister Robert Malva) has

Every Sunday at 5:30pm-5:55pm 
been forced to use his house as an office.

airs Campus News which addresses campus issues. 
The U.N. Security Council imposed a worldwide oil em­bargo against Haiti in June in hope~ of pressuring the mili­



We would like to know what you want to hear! 
tary-backed regime to agree to a democratic transition. Faced with almost universal condem­nation and the specter of total

~WRITE TO: WSND News 
economic collapse, the regime backed down and agreed to al­

201 Pangborn 
low Aristide's return. The U.N. sanctions were lifted, as were


Campus Mail 
trade sanctions imposed by the Organization of American 
States. 
As Aristide spoke on Tuesday, a U.S. delegation headed by Assistant Secretary of State Alexander Watson was in Port­

with comments, ideas, and questions 

WSND is a student run station located in O'Shaughnessy. 
Au-Prince to press for support for the transition. 

~---.--~----_.------~--~~--------·--------------~---------------------------------------------~ ---­




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, September 22, 1993 

As a pro-life Democrat, I have 
majority held that a woman end up merely demonstrating frequently been regarded as who would remain in a vegeta­their ignorance, hypocrisy and somewhat of an anomaly. tive state forever was required insensitivity (see, e.g., I.h.f However, despite the fact that to continue to live. Although the Observer, 16 Sept. 1993), since the pro-life movement is indeed young woman had previously they inevitably ignore a vastly comprised mostly of made it known that in such cir­important aspect of the contro­Republicans, I see no problem cumstances she would prefer versy. That is, they pass over with my stance. In fact, it is my death to ongoing medical care, what the Democrats fully and firm contention that the pro-life the Court worked around this rightly recognize -that gays, side of the abortion debate fits major factor and concluded lesbians and bisexuals are, into a Democratic set of values that "constitutional traditions" above all, human beings, and extremely well. Perhaps it was were more important. In dis­that they are much less con­stated best by a friend of mine sent, Justice Brennan empha­cerned with sex than with being who also happens to be a pro­sized that the dignity of life accorded the dignity and life Democrat: "The ultimate includes the right to die in a respect that is due to all people. liberal viewpoint is that all life dignified manner: "For many, In short, there is a discernible has value." the thought of an ignoble end, pattern in Democratic thought In life-or-death situations, steeped in decay, is abhorrent. that recognizes and respects Democrats have traditionally A quiet, proud death, bodily the intrinsic worth of life, no defended the dignity and in­all life has innate value, and and determining if severe in­integrity intact, is a matter of matter what other cir­herent worth of life. A prime thus they defend the lives of jury or death will result when a extreme consequence." 497 cumstances happen to be pre­example can be observed in the these convicted criminals. As car is driven into a brick wall at u.s. 261, 310-11 (1989). sent. If an embryo or a fetus is 
area of capital punishment. I Justice Brennan most elo­excessive speeds (let me think Contrary to what some believe, "life", which I believe it is, then hate to generalize, but for pur­quently put it, "foremost among about that one for awhile). allowing an individual to choose there should be no surprise that poses of this article I will have the 'moral concepts' recognized While the traditional death in these situations in no a Democrat might value that 
to do so to some extent to ex­in our cases. . . is the primary Republican viewpoint here is to way contradicts the sanctity of life unconditionally despite the 
emplify my point. And I will try moral principle that the State, look to the utility that these life. It merely recognizes that extenuating circumstances that to be as accurate as one can even as it punishes, must treat cruelties yield to humans, the death is an inevitable facet of are often present when a 
possibly be while generalizing. its citizens in a manner consis­predominantly Democratic ani­life, and a dignified life includes woman contemplates having an Therefore, I note that tent with their intrinsic worth mal-rights movement looks to a dignified death. abortion. Hepublicans generally support as human beings", and that "a the pain it inflicts on these Even when the issue is not I want to emphasize that this 
the death penalty, contending punishment must not be so innocent animals. While the one of life or death, the article is not meant to be that its "social utility" as a form Democratic camp often recog­"preachy". Many friends of
severe as to be degrading to "conservative" view regardsof punishment, its long-stand­human dignity." 428 U.S. 227, animals as "inferior ranks of nizes the worth of human be­mine espouse a pro-choice view ing acceptance, and society's 229 (1976). And this position, creatures" which were created ings whom many people deni­and I respect their positions. current endorsement of the which places a high value on exclusively for "use" by hu­grate and regard as inferior. A Indeed, some of their argu­penalty (inferred from the life, is certainly the one that mans, the overall "liberal" view good contemporary example is ments are very strong, and this 
death penalty statutes that exist most Democrats espouse. argues that animals are living the gay rights issue. perhaps accounts for the fact in many jurisdictions) justify its Democrats also make up the creatures who can experience Traditionalists look at one that at present-day abortion is 
use. These and other reasons aspect of this issue: sex. For legal. I am merely trying to
large majority of the animal­pain, and for just that reason 
render the death penalty ac­rights movement. Although we do not have the right to do some reason, they arrive at the show that one can be both ceptable to most Republicans, some of them will agree that with them as we please. conclusion that the only aspect Democratic and pro-life without 
but it is interesting to note how of gay, lesbian and bisexual contradicting oneself. I am such
the slaughter of animals for And when one approachesfew of their justifications deal food is "necessary", they lind it the end of his or her life, people is their sexual behavior an individual. And I can only 
with the bottom line: a human and, since homosexual sex is hope that this analysis will help
unnecessary and pernicious to whether by natural causes or 
life is involved. put animals to suffering and some unfortunate accident, "the worst thing in the world", other pro-life Democrats feel Democrats, on the other often death for such purposes Democrats feel that one has the they condemn these people as more secure about their funda­hand, do not deny that those as making fur coats (a real ne­right to "die with dignity"; to immoral and deny them many mental convictions and speak who have become death-penal­cessity), testing whether dish­preserve the respectability of rights taken for granted by the out accordingly. ty candidates have almost sure­washing liquid will be harmful his or her memory. In a major heterosexual majority. Even 
ly done something egregious. when inserted into the eyes Supreme Court case on the is­"well-meaning" commentators Kristen M. Dunne is a student However, they recognize that (that's a tough one, isn't it?) sue, the primarily Republican on this side of the debate often in the Law School. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
SIR, YOU'RE NOT GETTING IT-A


BUT THAT
I}&PAf<TMtNT IS FDWEJR! stPAI?A7E 

f'(JA}tR 57CMS Ft<{}M
ETHNIC ANOtiJO!r1fN'5 ST!J[)IE:s 

5ePARATENe55! P£0­
/JtPAKTMeNT9 REPRE-­

PI-8 AI<& PEVWJPING
5eNT POW£!<. 70Pt0­

A V&§TW INTER/3ST
Pll3 WHO'VE HIS­

/N... IN... I
7DRICAUY BaN 
f}ffl!W IT.' ~ 
9-22. 

"I'm mad as hell, and I'm not going to rake it any 
, 
more. 

Paddy Chayevsky Playwright (1976) 
-. ........-. ~·---.-------·--~ -~-· 

ACC~NT 
Wednesday, September 22, 1993 page9 
50 Years of Commitment 
Notre Dame celebrates the 
golden anniversary ofFather Hesburgh's ordination 
By MATT FOLEY Hesburgh relayed that all of the The Hesburgh Library. He is Accent Writer major institutions in Europe still accessible on an immediate were, at their founding, basis, but much of his time is 
From the outset of his dis­Catholic. In the process of his­spent traveling world-wide to tinguished career as Notre tory, all of these schools and various conferences trying to Dame President, to his re­centers lost their grounding in make a difference in the world. tirement activities involving the the Faith and became more or The five institutes Hesburgh five institutes he founded, less secularized. Notre Dame, helped found are: the Kroc Father Hesburgh has never for­in the eyes of Father Hesburgh Institute for International Peace gotten the one distinction he and the others who helped Studies and the Kellogg holds most dear -the commit­orchestrate Notre Dame's com­Institute for International ment he made over 50 years ing of age, should never suffer Studies housed in the Hesburgh ago to serve the Roman the same fate, and in that spirit Center, the Center for Civil and Catholic Church as a priest. continue to uphold the "oldest Human Rights in the Law 
June 24, 1993 marked the intellectual movement in the School, the Hank golden anniversary of Father Western world." Environmental Research Center Hesburgh's ordination in Father Hesburgh, when pres­in Land 0' Lakes, Wisconsin, 
The Observer/file photo 

Sacred Heart Cathedral. From ident of Notre Dame was able and the Ecumenical Institute in 
Celebrating mass everyday for people world wide has been one of
that day 50 years ago, every­to use his ordained mission in Jerusalem. 
Father Hesburgh's great accomplishments. 
thing he has accomplished has various ways to shepherd These institutes represent been done in the context of the issues surrounding ethics and what Theodore Hesburgh con­world. priesthood. All of the other justice. In everything from siders the five main issues in In light of this global and ecu­titles, honors, and activities Atomic Energy, to Vietnam today's ever-changing world. menical mission, Father aside, Father Hesburgh is first The first two institutes deal Hesburgh has found himself, on and foremost a Catholic priest. with peace and human rights, occasion, as the first Catholic 
Through this ordained per­"Being a priest gives with the Kroc Institute focusing priest ever to hold certain spective on life, which provided on peace the world over and offices. or even the orrly
you instant recogni­

Theodore Hesburgh with an the Kellogg institute primarily Catholic in attendance at a con­incredible focus for the future, tion, they (the people dealing with Latin America. ference. One of these oc­he has accomplished quite a around you) know the The last three tackle the prob­currences happened in the for­lot. Fifteen presidential lems of justice, ecology, and mer Soviet Union during the
background you are

appointments, 127 honorary ecumenism. reign of Mikhail Gorbachev. degrees. and numerous other coming from." In the usual way. all of the At a conference on Human positions on various boards. issues and concerns are Rights in Russia & Peace in the commissions, and institutes -Father Hesburgh grounded first and foremost in Nuclear Age, Father Hesburgh, have kept him exceptionally Hesburgh's outlook as a priest. as a member of the US delega­busy even after stepping down offenders, to Third World These issues all bear immense­tion, was the only Catholic in 1987 from a distinguished development and immigration, ly on the Kingdom of God and there. That made the situation career as Notre Dame's fif­Father Hesburgh has been bringing it, as close as possible, of celebrating Mass all the teenth president. involved in policy making. to the earthly realm. more interesting. 
While President of the As always, his status as a As the story goes, Patriarch University, Father Hesburgh priest is the foremost qualifi­Even after all of these Pitrim, the Metropolitan of stewarded the advancement of cation and viewpoint he brings awards, honors and accolades Moscow, asked Theodore Notre Dame from a small to the task or issue at hand. from his admirers, Father Hesburgh to celebrate Mass for Catholic school with an excep­"Being a priest gives you Hesburgh's greatest accom­the participants. Everyone tional football team to a major instant recognition, they (the plishment -and this is no big attended a Catholic Mass where Catholic institution, arguably people around you) know the secret -"is saying Mass every the only Catholic in the building the most prestigious and fa­background you are coming day." From his position as a was the celebrant saying it, and mous in the world. The bedrock from," said Father Hesburgh. globe-spanning traveler. one they all prayed for the success of this transformation was the In the years since his re­can easily see why the greatest of the endeavors they were basic idea that Notre Dame tirement, Father Hesburgh has gift of the priesthood for Father undertaking. would not lose its Catholicity. kept up a frenetic pace from his Hesburgh has been being able It is those moments of min­
In an interview, Father office on the thirteenth floor of to say Mass for the whole istry, those moments of actually getting in the community, even a non-Catholic community, and saying the sacraments in the Mass, that bring Father Hesburgh the greatest satisfac­tion in his work. 
In fact, from the ministry comes the recommendations Father Hesburgh cites in mak­ing a case for joining the priest­hood. "You belong to everyone and you are disposable to everyone. You are accepted, provided you make a contribu­tion," said Father Hesburgh. 
Finally, on the actual an­niversary day Father Hesburgh was in Washington, D.C. work­ing with the Institute for Peace. The President. upon hearing that Father was in town, sched­uled a meeting with him and told him "Thank you for service to your faith and country." 
We here at Notre Dame can echo those sentiments in con­gratulating Father Hesburgh on his 50 years of ordination, as 
AP file photo well as thanking him for well Father Hesburgh has worked to advance world peace, ecology and ecumenism by establishing five world over a half-century of service to renowned institutes. God. Country, and Notre Dame. 




page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 22, 1993 
The Obs.rver accep!S classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 r..m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All class1fieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents pc:r character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Experience !he ultimale of all sports-SKYDIVING! Train wilh Great Lakes Skydivers in Sept. and receive 10% off our 1st Jump Course, with student ID. West Michigan's oldest & most experi­enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­ated. One hour North of South Bend. (616)628-4892 
Typing 287-4082 
WANTED: MALE WHO ENJOYS RUNNING AND EATING PAN­CAKES. DOMER RUN-SATUR­DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100 FOR MORE INFO. 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Black trunk at the end of 92­93 school year. Full of sweatshirts, NO softball items. Disappeared from hallway in PW. Possibly put in someone's storage or mistakenly taken home. Reward. Please call (313)856-6828 
Found... One key ring in 203A 
O'Shag. To claim please call 
Mike V. at 4-3661. 
LOST: one eyepiece to binoculars In section 29 at the MSU game. if found call 273-4801 
LOST: I lost a Ricoh camera and a memorable roll of film In a blue camera bag during the M.S. football game. Please call Erica@ 282-2965 if you know about either! 
FOUND Sunday 9/19 on the east side of the library on a ledge: dorm keys and car keys, Call Doug at 234-6306 to claim. 
LOST: A Diamond Tennis Bracelet at Red Field. Offering a REWARD of $100. If found call Alicia at 273-6897. Extreme sentimental value. 
Lost: Green army-type bookbag with German book and dictionary. Reward. 237-0659. 
Found-Silver necklace. Call271­2911 to Identify 
I left an NO bookstore bag at Stepan fields on Monday following soccer practice. Inside was a pair of shoes and an SMC Rome program T-shirt. Keep the shoes, man, I could use some new ones. But please return the shirt to Dave in Morrissey 4-3651. 
WANTED 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS I 
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING 
BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8 
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS 
& PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, 
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800­
678-63861 
GREEKSICLUBSISTUDENT GROUPS! Raise as Much as You Want In One Weeki $100...$600...$15001 Market Applications for Citibank VISA, MCI, SEARS, AMOCO etc. Call for your FREET-SHIRT and to qualify for FREE TRIP to MTV SPRING BREAK '94. CALL 1-800-932-Q528, EXT. 65. 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT· Make money teaching basic con­versational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to $2000-$4000+ per month. Many provide room & board + other bene­fits. No previous training or teaching certificate required. For more infor­mation call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584 
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, 
EARN CASH & GO FREEl! I 
Student Travel Services is now hir­
Ing campus reps. Call @800-648­
4849. 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT· fish· eries. Earn up to $2Cl00-$4000 or more per month on fishing vessels or In canneries. Many companies provide transportation and room & board. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For more informa­tion call:1·206·545-4155 ext. A5584 Desperately need a ride to and from Cleveland for the weekend of Oct 2. Will help pay for gas. Call Phil x0549. 
need ride to Decorah lA or close for fall break-will pay gas$ & drive Nate x1672 
Need ride to Marion OH,9/25.Will 
pay for gas Dan X1694 
FRIENDLY VOICES NEEDED TO 
CALL AREA RESIDENTS FOR 
AMERICAN HEART ASSOC. 
START IMMEDIATELY. M-TH 5-9 
pm. SAT. AM. CALL258-4018 
Person needed ASAP to 
transcribe tapes for dissertation 
project. Can work at own conve­
nience. Good typing skills a 
must. Can pay $1 per page. 
Please call Bob Hanna on campus 
(1-7336) or home (291-1380). 
Desire companion to/fro Sarasota Fl. Thanks vac. In exchange for par­tial air fare. 291-5401 
WANTED: DOMER WHO LIKES TO RUN. DOMER RUN-SATUR­DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100 FOR MORE INFO. 
FOR RENT 
KOONTZ HOUSE BED & BREAK· FAST located 23 miles south of Notre Dame on route 23, on Koontz Lake, south of Walkerton, Indiana 4 rooms, full breakfast-week-end getaway 219-586·7090 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­
ND/SMC EVENTS 
(219) 291-7153 
-GRADUATE STUDENT ROOM­HOUSE @ ANGELA & PORTAGE SHARE WITH OTHER GRAD STUDENTS. PRIVATE ROOM KIT., STUDY ROOM, $180 MO THRU MAY. COULD INCLUDE GARAGE AT $30MO. 
START 
OCT 1. WE WILL CALL YOU. POSTCARD TO BOX770 ND IN 46556 OR LEAVE VM 
MESSAGE (619)-299-Q212 
1 block from N.D. Apartments at 755 South Bend Ave. 1 bedrm-240, 2 bedrm-330, dep., references 1· 800·582-9320 
FOR SALE 
Foosball table 4 sale. Tornado com­mercial heavy duty. Good shape. $650. 299-1644 
BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 
Original Macintosh 128K computer with mouse and keyboard. $75 or 
best offer. Call Jesse at x3261 
'83 FORD ESCORT, 4 dr, air $700 
20" Sony Trinitron TV $100 
VCR $100 273-9042 
St Louis bound? And trip TWA direct flight tix for female Oct22· 
Nov1 $135: 233·2698 
81 HONDA PRELUDE $645 Sunroof, AC, AM-FM Cassette, 
104K miles 277-9245 
KEYBOARD Yamaha DX-27 w/ Accesories $300 or best. call KJ @ 
232·7838 
TICKETS 
I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL TIXS.272-6306 
NEED G.A.'S • 3 PITT, 4 USC, 4 
FSU. PLEASECALLJoe@ 1613. 
FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 277-1659. 
Have GA's to all Home Games & Mich. Call 232-7316 from 7-8 p.m. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO PITT GAs-WILL PAY BIG$$$$. CALL ALISA @ 4 • 1302. 

$$NEED STUDENT OR GA TICK· 
ETS FOR PITT, FLORIDA STATE 
AND BC.$$ CALL JOANNE AT 
273-6588. 

FSU TIX NEEDEDIIII!II! 
CALL CRAIG @273-3942 
PLEASE!! 

Need 2 Fla. St. GA's 
Best offer-call T J 232-5030 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC 
MATT @ 232-3870 
NO vs USC -Need tickets for 10/23 game.Chris Marks 800-523-3139. 
WANTED PITT AND FSU TIX. X2756 WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. 
Need 8 PITT GA's Will take any 
combination. $Call Amy 2658 
I NEED PITT TICKETS, GA PREF­ERED call Tim at x1225 
WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR 
GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST. 
GA:s 2773097 
#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ 
Help! I need four tickets to the 
Boston College game .... 
If you would like to make a hot 
babe's day with 4 tix, call Elisa at 
634-2703 ... 

@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# 
HAVE GA's EACH HM GM 
271-1681 

NEEDED: 2 Pitt GA'S 
Tony x3327 

NEED PITT GA'S LARGE FAMILY 
WANTS TO SEE SIS IN BAND. 
CALL SHEILA x4072 or (614)459­
0074 

Need 2 USC tickets, stud or GA 
Need FSU tickets, stud or GA 
Call Dave at 4-3507 
NEED 1 Pitt GA/Stud.$$$ call Sue 
x2768 

2 Pitt GA's needed. Will pay top $. Call4-2774. 
NEED 2 PITT TIX. GA'S OR 
STUD. PLEASE CALL LISA 
x1297. 

WILL BUY 1 EACH FSU/USC OR TRADE OCT 9 UM-MSU 271-8689 (CAL) 
All I need is an FSU student ticket. 
Tim x1517 

Nedd 1 Pitt Ticket • GA or Student • so that my little brother can attend the game. Will pay big bucks. Jim x1865 
Would really appreciate 1 USC 
Student ticket. Call Phil x0549 
NEED 2 PITT GA'S & 2 BC STUDTIX x2300 
Will buy or trade 2 BC GAs for 2 Pitt or USC GAs. Kim @ x2545 
Help! I need 1 Pitt GA for my cute little bro who wants to see NO play! Call X4245 • Kristin 
Need 2 USC GA's will pay in USCurrency John 273-5828 
$$ WANTED! I $$ 
FSU and BC TIXII 
273 • 3930 Tracy 
$$ WANTED! ! $$ 
FSU and BC TIXII 
273 -3930 Tracy 
NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO USC. Please call Lisa after 5 P.M. at 232-2728. 
lmportantllllllllllllllllllllllll Need 2 or 4 GA's for BC NO Alum-Fanatic Will pay any pricellll!lll Call Katie 4-3390 (leave message) 
NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA 
STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354­
8826 AFTER 5 PM 

Need 2 Pin tix -GA or student. 
Call Sean x1223 

**** 4 SALE .... 
2 PITT GA'S (40 yd. line) 
Best Offer #2364 
WANTED: 2 USC GA's. 
Will trade 2 BC Married St Tix 
(no ID needed) and $$$$. 
Call Dan@ 273-1497 
I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY 
MIKE x2292 

WILL TRADE 2 GOOD PITT GAs 
for any 2 FSU GAs. 272-9248. 
HELP!! NEED 2 GA's FOR BC ­
WILL SELL 1 PITT GA 
CALL HELEN x4026 
Need Help!!! Will trade a USC stu. tix for a BC stu. tix. Call Hildita X4846. 
Last week, I was rich enough to buy and sell you 40 times over. This week, I have nothing, so I'm selling 2 PURDUE GAs. Call JOE RUSSO at 234-6306. 
We Need PITT TIX 2 GA's and 3 stud. Call Jeff at 1612 or Kristen at 2812 
I NEED GA'S FOR USC & BC 
NICKX1777 

Need 2 Pin Tix, Student or GA; Call Lisa x2449 
For Sale 2 Purdue Tix, Face Value Call Kara, x2449 
will trade pitt GAs for FSU GAs. 
233-5130 

will trade USC or PITT std. tix. for 
FSU std. tix. 233-5130. ask for 
mike. 

NEED 2 FLORIDA ST. GAs Call Jessica@ X1298 
PITT AND USC GAs WANTED FOR RICH ALUMNI $$$232-1348 
I HAVE 2 PURDUE TIX 4 SALE CHRIS 271-7807 
I am Selling Purdue GAs cheap. 
I need Pitt GAs. 

call Mike at 277-8135 
NEED GAs FOR PITT GAME 
PLEASE CALL 273-4979 
ASK FOR SUSANNE :-) 
LEAVE A MESSAGE$$$$$$ 
########################### 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED U S C TICKET Ill! 
If you going home for break and need to sell your ticket-
HERE'S YOUR CHANCE ....... 
CALL 273-4979 . 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need 2 PITT GAs (bad seats preferred) for my in-laws.273-0282 
DYING GRANDPARENTS' LAST WISH: SEE PITT VS. NO NEED 2 PITT GA'S DONALD X1724. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME. MIKE @ 1724 
Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261 
I WILL BUY 2 USC GA'S. AFTER I BUY 2 GA'S I WILL BE SELLING 1 STUDENT FOR USC. CALL BROOKE X4369 
NEED 2 PITT GA'S MIKE x1534 
NEED 1 USC GA. CALL ED X1194. 
HAVE 1 FSU GA. $70. BRIAN X1201 
4 Football Tickets Notre Dame/BYU (801)798-2340 Evenings. 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­1429 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2 FLA ST GA'S. WILL CONSIDER STUD TIX. 800-223-1700 x295 Shawn. 
I NEED STANFORD TIX CALL JOHN x3485 
"I NEED TICKETS" 3 Pittsburgh (10/9) Bill@273-2823 
SALE 2 PITT & BC GA's Call Dan x3666 
HAVE 4 Pitt GAs NEED 2 FSU GAs Call Jason @ x2052 to TRADE, buy, or sell 
PERSONAL 
SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The Madison Oyster Bar. Bring friends. 
THINKING ABOUT SERVICE NEXT YEAR? COME TO THE POST-GRAD FAIR! THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30TH CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­CERNS 7-10PM OVER 40 PROGRAMS REPRE­SENTED TO PROVIDE YOU WITH INFORMATION! 
SENIOR RAP-UP GROUP SIGN-UPS AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­CERNS DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
$ 

SHORT ON CASH? 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 1% interest $10-$250 loans 
STOP BY 11:30-12:30 mon.-fri. O'hara Lounge, Lafortune (next to info. desk) 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
But rna, he is the right girl! glnd/smc po 194 ND IN 46556 
Seeking information regarding European travel and backpacking for the summer of '94. Good time for two frugal students. Please call Theresa-x2496 or Bevin-x2569. 
can ya .... can ya drive? 
*** NEW ••• NEW *** NEW *** 
COLOR COPIES & TRANSPARENCIES at 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
in the Lafortune Student Center 
Hey TEDD SMITH, If you want a second opinion, con­tact the club president. 
P.S. Girls, pay your dues by the 1st. 
P.S.S. Nice shirt, Slim!! 
SOUND TECHSI SOUND TECHS! Student Activities is now hiring sound tachs to operate LaFortune technical equipment. Apply at 315 Lafortune. Minimal experience neede~lll train on equipment. 
Dear Jersey, 

If your middle name is Rose, then the guy across from you has something for you. 
Michigan 
NDVIDEO 

GRAND OPENING WEEKEND 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday­
First 100 movie rentals get free 
microwave popcorn. 

PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
Hey Off-campus seniors .... 
The PW talent show needs you!! 
We are having It on Thursday, Sept 30 in Theodores .... 
It's big time now so get your acts 
together and call Jen Marten at 
634-2706 to sign up!! II 

PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
Hey PWites ... 

The talent show is coming ... 
We need actsll 

Be daring ...Be bold ...You don't 
have to have any real talent...just 
be creative!!! 

The big event will be at 7 p.m. in 
Theodores on Thursday, Sept. 30. 
To sign up, see Jen Marten. 
PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
...but where do the capital letters 
fall in "hanging brain"????? 
ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­agement and security to the pre­cious life your are carrying; a full­time mom and loving dad; married 12 years; promises that your child will have every opportunity. Please call Phil and Maureen at (800)545­8195. 
WANTED: ANYONE WHO LOVES PANCAKES AND IS WILLING TO RUN 3 OR 6 MILES TO GET THEM. DOMER RUN-SATUR­DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100 FOR MORE INFO. 
GERMAN CLUB, 

Anyone interested in a weekly dis­cussion group? If you are meet at 
the Lafortune Information desk 
tonight at 7:001 
HeyG-­
What's the sound 
of one hand clapping? 

Does one hand clapping have a sound? I'm not sure that it does. In order to further investigate this idea, perhaps we should take a cue from our good friend and esteemed mentor whom we lovingly refer to as 'Aug' and imagine two possible worlds--one in which one hand clapping does have a sound, and one in which one hand clapping does not have a sound. Of course, then the inevitable and immortal question arises--what color is the sky in each of these worlds? If we then take all of these considerations or parts and put them together (together at last--together forever-­we're tying a knot--they never can sever*), we will begin to asymptoti­cally approach the whole which is happiness. And that which is right is that which maximizes happiness, so it Is ultimately only right that we ponder the original question posed by Van the Man. 
• I don't need sunshine now to tum my skies to blue. 
Chris Weirup--ah oom bop ah oom bop a rna mama 
My heart is on fire--Chris Weirup 
Here's to Dish--a firm believer in the concept of brotherly love. 
To the five beautiful babes at Lafayette, we rulellf Everybody wants to come to our den of love! 
Boodgie, woodgie, woodgielll You'r the best boodge a friend could have!! I Oh, and why don't we vis~ Eddie tonight!? I That would be cool, heh, heh, hehlll 
Wednesday, September 22, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Janson takes helm ofSaint Mary's swimming Marten 
By MARY GOOD Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team is preparing to dive into their season with the help of new head coach Greg Janson. 
Janson is a graduate student at Notre Dame. Interested in coaching while doing his graduate work, Janson landed the job at Saint Mary's after previous coach Dennis Cooper left for personal reasons. 
Janson's swimming experience extends back to high school, where he swam the 100 meter butterfly and the 200 meter individual medley. He has been coaching for the last six years. He spent three of these as head coach of a high school team. 
The Belles impressed him as an "enthusi­astic group of swimmers interested in learning from and about the sport." He is "optimistic about what the girls can do when we get down to practice." 
As far as coaching a women's team at a women's college, Janson believes that swimmers are swimmers. 
"Coaching in general excites me," he said. "Who the swimmers are doesn't mat­ter, it just changes the approach. 
Janson plans to meet with each girl indi­vidually to discuss her goals for the season and to devise a plan. Janson's main goal for the team is improvement; however, he is interested in developing more than his swimmer's strokes. 
"I would like to see all of the swimmers be successful outside of swimming as well." 
Janson is also looking forward to the sea­son. He is ready to get the swimmers working, and. he has a realistic attitude about his new team. 
"My swimmers are people first, students second, and swimmers third." 
continued from page 16 
Female athletes are no longer stereotyped as "tom boys." 
Along those lines, women have been able to try any sport that interests them and are not restricted to just the traditional options like gymnastics or rid­ing horses. There are women playing hockey, basketball and baseball. Even cheerleading requires a heightened athleti­cism with tumbling and stunts 

Underclassmen pace Irish golf 
Observer Staff Report ... 
"· ·;...···"\t)~, ,.. 

The Notre Dame men's golf team finished tenth at last weekend's Purdue Invitational with a three-round total o1 605. 
Freshman Brian Donohoe and junior Chris O'Connell led the Irish. finishing in a tie for 26th with a 227 total. 
Mike Chaney and Cole Hanson tied for 32nd, shooting a 228. 
Purdue's Gold team defeated Youngstown State in a playofl to take the crown. 
The two teams tied at 864 after the end of regulation play, but Purdue's Brad Chesterman defeated Brad DeJacimo of Youngstown State in a three-hole playoff to give the Boilermakers the title. 
the rule rather that the excep­
tion. 
As a result of their accep­

Injuries plague Gopher receivers 
By MIKE NADEL our best receiver, hasn't played Associated Press a lick the last two games after MINNEAPOLIS leading the nation the first 
Sometimes, Minnesota coach game." Jim Wacker will employ four The key is Douglas, the only receivers and only a single receiver on the team with abil­back. Sometimes, he'll leave the ity to both beat defenders deep backfield bare and go with five and elude them in the open wideouts. field. 
Wacker likes to send re­Without Douglas to worry 
ceivers every which way. First, about last Saturday, Kansas however, he must have enough State was able to play man-to­receivers to send. man defense. The Wildcats held 
Injuries have ravaged the Minnesota to 198 passing yards Gophers' pass-catching corps. -about 230 below its nation­Tuesday, Wacker ran down leading average -and won 30­the list of ailments: 25. "Lewis Garrison, sprained Wacker hopes to have Douglas 
ankle, doesn't play the first back at full strength this game, is gimpy the second Saturday, when the Gophers game, the third game is still not visit San Diego State. full speed; Aaron Osterman, "We've got one guy who can two bad ankles and then tears shake and bake and get it a ligament in his thumb last loose," Wacker said. "He was 
game; Eric Dalen goes down not ready to play. Hopefully, with a hip and a thigh and is he'll be better. We need him definitely out; Omar Douglas, desperately." 
NEED A JOB, ENGLISHMAJORS? 

GO TO CAREER NIGHT! 
*OTHER MAJORS WELCOME* 
7:00PM THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 23 101 DEBARTOLO 
SENIORS! 

JOIN THE SERVICE COMMITTEE 
We Need Your Help to Plan Events for the Year 
Informational Meeting Thursday Sept. 23 at 5 PM Dooley Room, 1st Floor LaFortune 
Dismas House Dinners  Catholic Worker House  
Party for children at El Campi to, Oct. 12  5/lOKRun  
+many other events  

Questions: Call Regina Hoagland, 4-2687 

tance into the modern athletic  
Osterman will try to play de­ world, young girls now are  
spite his ailments. Garrison  introduced to sports as early as  
should be back at full speed.  boys. The learning process  
Dalen will be replaced at tight  starts around eight or nine and  
end by redshirt freshman Mark  continues through high school.  
Tangen, who will be backed up  Summer athletic camps for  
by  true  freshman  Paul  girls are a  booming business  
Kratochvil.  and it would be hard to find a  
Another lineup change will be  collegiate athlete who did not  
at cornerback, where Juan  attend a  camp or play on a  
Hunter takes over for ineffec­ summer league team before  
tive Drinon Mays.  getting to where she is now.  
Wacker again is contemplat­ What this means, in relation  
ing a switch at kicker.  to Notre Dame and collegiate  
Mike Chalberg, a scholarship  sports in general, is that the  
athlete from  New Zealand,  women's teams have become  
missed two field goals and an  extremely competitive. It used  
extra point against Kansas  to be that a  women's team  
State. And, after the Gophers  would take any female who dis­ 
took the lead late in the game,  played some measure of ath­ 
he didn't put the ensuing kick­ leticism.  
off  deep  enough  and  the  Now, Notre Dame recruits  
Wildcats returned it 72 yards to  female prep stars from all over  
set up the winning score.  the country and the seniors on  
The only other alternative is  these teams are thankful that  
Omar Salas,  a  walk-on who  they made the team when they  
also has struggled.  did. Many don't think they  
would have made the team  
Holtz  with the current caliber of incoming freshmen. Irish coaches are in an excel­ 
continued from page 16  lent position to recruit because  
Notre Dame also offers top­ 
with  a  concussion, but has  notch academics and the pres­ 
been practicing and is expected·  tige of its name along with the  
to play Saturday. Fellow receiv­ athletic facilities and successes.  
er Mike Miller was expected to  For this reason, the Irish teams  
miss today's practice with what  will only continue to improve  
Holtz called a  "bad ankle".  and within the decade several  
Holtz said Miller is also expect­ of the women's sports here  
ed to play on Saturday.  may be able to boast of nation­ 
al championships.  
.  .  

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
1'\0RtftU CtnltR 
fOR Tt1f cfl RTS 
A TREK 
CONTEMPORARY DANCE THEATRE 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 AT 8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S-NO COMMUNITY ADULTS $4, STUDENTS $3 A JOHN M. DUGGAN EVENT 
Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626. 
---1!1--­
SaintMary's College 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 


Auburn players look to bright side of dismal season 

~ ! 
~ _ -


Photo courtesy of Michigan Sports information Dana Howard and his Fighting lllini teammates contest two Arizona touchdowns in a 16-14 loss to the Wildcats. 
By ED WHITE Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN 

The supervisor of Big Ten football officials said Tuesday he agrees with Illinois: Two touchdowns scored last week by No. 15 Arizona should have been erased. 
The Wildcats won 16-14, thanks to a safety and two fum­bles that were returned for touchdowns. 
After reviewing game film, Dave Parry said Arizona line­backer Sean Harris was on the ground when he picked up a fumble, meaning the play should have been immediately stopped. 
Harris got up and ran 76 yards while the crowd watched in silence. 
In the second quarter, Wildcat lineman Jim Hoffman recov­ered a fumble and ran 46 yards for a score. But Parry acknowl­edged that the fumble occurred when safety Brandon Sanders smacked Illinois quarterback Scott Weaver in the head. 
"He was hit high and hard," Parry said in an interview from his home in Michigan City, Ind. "If this had been ruled a foul, (Arizona) would not have had the ball." 
He said the Big Ten officials made "judgment errors" on a "couple of very tough calls." 
Tepper did not criticize the of­ficials at his weekly news con­ference but felt vindicated. 
"That's no excuse for us to have lost the game," he said. "Those were two touchdowns, but we had our chances. (10 We make one field goal. we win the game." 
"I don't want an attitude on my team to pervade that some­how the loss was an official's 
Maple Lane Barber Shop 
serving the Notre Dame community for over 3 2 years 
2112 South Bend Avenue 
(across from the new Martin's) fault; it was our fault," Tepper said. "I do appreciate Dave Parry having enough guts to give me a call. He didn't have to do that." 
In Tucson, Ariz., Arizona coach Dick Tomey declined to comment on the plays, except to say Sanders' hit on Weaver was not a "cheap shot." 
"We had 122 yards in penal­ties and they got 28.... There was a number of things called in the game that were incor­rect. But that's neither here nor there," Tomey said. "The game is over. We're moving on to the next one." 
Parry, the Big Ten chief of of­ficials, said referee Tom Quinn actually was the first person to contact him about the contro­versial plays. After watching film, Quinn was especially con­cerned about the fumble recov­ery by Harris. 
Parry watched another film provided by Illinois and shot from a different angle. He said it confirmed that Harris was on the ground when the line­backer grabbed the fumble. 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 

AUBURN 
Thomas Bailey, like many of his teammates at Auburn, knows he'll never go to a bowl game, never compete for a Southeastern Conference cham­pionship. NCAA probation took care of that. 
But Bailey looks at himself as a builder of sorts -laying the foundation for the type of pro­gram that brought him to the Tigers in the first place. 
"I want to put Auburn back on track," Bailey, a junior re­ceiver, said Tuesday. "I want to put us back where we used to be. That's all I've got to play for right now." 
So far, it's been enough. Auburn is 3-0 under new coach Terry Bowden, cracking the national rankings for first time in nearly two years. 
"Obviously 3-0 is where I wanted to be right now," said Bowden, whose 25th-ranked team plays host to Southern Mississippi this Saturday. "But does that mean we're ahead of schedule? Only if \-\'e keep win­ning. If we lose the next two games, we're back behind schedule." 
The Tigers were the SEC's 
dominant team in the 1980s, from Dye's staff-Bowden's but in the 1990s, barely a roar older brother, Tommy-things has been heard from the Tigers have changed the coach said on the field. "All of them,realize that we;re 
Two straight non-winning sea-going to run the offense exactly sons were overshadowed by like I want it run," he said. reports of players being paid, With Bowden firmly in con­secret tape recordings, long-trol, the Tigers opened the sea­time coach Pat Dye being son with a 16-12 victory over forced to resign and an NCAA Mississippi, a team that had investigation that landed beaten them 45-21 last year. Auburn on two years probation That was followed a by a 35-7 just before this season began. victory ·over Division 1-AA 
The sanctions were severe -Samford and an impressive 34­no television this year, no bowls 10 victory at LSU, where or SEC championships for two Auburn had not won since years-but it was like a weight 1939. had been lifted from Auburn's In that game, Stan White be-shoulders. came Auburn's all-time passing 
"The last two years were very leader with a 20-of-28, 282­hard," said junior receiver yard performance. The tailback Frank Sanders. "A lot of things tandem of James Bostic and happened. There was a lot of Stephen Davis combined for frustration. Now everything is 205 yards rushing. out in the open." The fast start has the campus 
Bowden said he notices anoth-buzzing. All 75,000 season tick­er difference. et packages have now been sold 
"Last year, they were not in and less than 5,000 tickets sync on offense," Bowden said. remain for Saturday's game at "It seemed like all of the coach-85,000-seat Jordan-Hare es had a different philosophy. Stadium. The receivers coach wanted to do this, the running back coach Auburn is a 14-point favorite wanted to do that, the offensive against Southern Miss and fig­line coach wanted to do some­ures to be favored in its follow­thing else." ing two games against 
Now, with a staff that includes Vanderbilt and Mississippi only one offensive holdover State. 
Tickets available at the Info. Desk at LaFortune 

IN CONCERT 


THE 

SAMPlES 

KEVIN & KELLY CARRIGAN ND'94 SMC '94 


Wednesday, September 22, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
PSU's Sacca contests first quarter benching 

By KELLY P. KISSEL 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
When Penn State prodigal quarterback John Sacca shot ofT his mouth, he shot himself in the foot. 
Although he and Kerry Collins each are listed first on Penn State's depth chart, Collins is working out with the Nittany Lions' first-team offense as they prepare this week for unde­feated Rutgers. 
"They usually alternate," starting guard Mike Malinoski said Tuesday. "Only Kerry was working with the first unit yes­terday." 
Sacca lashed out at Paterno for benching him after one quarter of the Lions' 31-0 victo­ry over Iowa on Saturday. He was so upset that after the game he mentioned leaving school. 
Accused booster files suit against A&M 



The Observer Are you a freshman, sophomore, or junior interested in sales? (It is a paid position!) Work your own hours and at own pace ... Applicant should be highly motivated and flexible. Anyone interested please contact Anne Heroman, Advertising Manager, at the Obsesver 231-6900  
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM presents METAL STATUE, GRANITE BASE: THE }ESUITS' WOODSTOCK COLLEGE, MARYLAND, 1869 ... 1891 John L. Ciani, S.J. o·eorgetown University Thursday, September 23 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge  

SOUTH BEND 4121 S. Michigan 
<ti.S. 31 South) 291-9200 
MISHAWAKA 5327 Grape Road 
(1/2 Mi. S. ~University Park Mall) 
277-8121 

"I have to sit down and see if my future is with the Nittany Lions," he said. "I earned the starting job. I deserve it. And if I'm going to be pulled in the first quarter, I don't see myself being the quarterback here much longer." 
Paterno talked with Sacca on Sunday. 
"John Sacca is a fine young man who probably said a cou­ple of things he wishes he wouldn't have said," Paterno said during his weekly press conference Tuesday. 
''I'm not particularly happy with our passing game," Paterno said, singling out no one. "Certainly our quarter­backs have not been as alert as I'd like them to be, but ... we can't drop two or three passes a ball game." 
A Sacca run-in with Paterno is nothing new. Brother Tony, who holds many Penn State passing records, complained almost from the time he arrived that he wished the Lions would open up its passing game a Ia Miami. 
The worry now is that John Sacca's outburst will hurt the team, which improved to 3-0 and climbed to ninth in the rankings with an almost forgot­ten 31-0 victory in its first Big Ten road game. 
"This team is fine," Paterno said. "They played a great game, did well. We're fine. I don't think there's anything else involved in it.'" 
"It was just the heat of the moment," Malinoski said. 
Defensive tackle Lou Benfatti said he hated to have an indi­vidual's complaints overshadow the team's performance, but said Paterno directed the team to leave the matter behind. 
"We'll make sure it doesn't af­fect us," he said. 

By JAY JORDEN 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

A Texas A&M supporter said Tuesday a newspaper's con­tention that he had been banned as a booster was one of several false claims that caused his company to lose millions of dollars. 
Rod Dockery, identified in an article as an "ex-banned boost­er" whose association with an Aggie quarterback was blamed partly for the school's 1988 probation, filed suit against The Dallas Morning News Inc. and a staff writer. 
Papers filed in the defamation lawsuit by Dockery and his company, Dockery House Publishing Inc., contend the June 24 newspaper was false and malicious. Dockery filed the suit in Judge Eric Moye's 101st State District Court. 
"We have yet to be served with this lawsuit, but we stand behind the accuracy of our story," Marian Spitzberg, assis­tant general counsel for A.H. Belo Corp., The Morning News' parent company, said Tuesday afternoon. 
According to the newspaper, Dockery's dealings with A&M quarterback Kevin Murray in 1988 partly led to NCAA proba­tion for the Aggies. 
The News had identified Dockery as one of four boosters banned for at least two years from associating with Texas A&M's athletics. Dockery said he had never been banned as a booster. 
"I have done nothing wrong ever, except to work hard to help A&M and to work hard in my business and personal life to maintain honesty and in­tegrity," Dockery said. 
Dockery said his company had hired A&M athletes, including Murray, and students over the years. But he said they did work, were properly paid and that the NCAA later found no evidence of wrongdoing. 
In an unrelated announce­ment, the NCAA earlier this month said star running back Greg Hill and four other Aggies had been suspended because they were paid thousands of dollars by a prominent Texas A&M booster in Dallas for work they didn't perform. 
But players working for Dockery received "nothing other than pay -no cars, gra­tuities, anything," he told a news conference at his attor­ney's office Tuesday. 
He later said he had leased art import car for Murray -but for an amount higher than prevailing lease rates. 
Dockery, 49, also said his con­tract to sell memorabilia in honor of Texas A&M was harmed by negative publicity from the newspaper article. 
Dockery said he and his attor­ney, Gary Richardson, believe that a jury award in the case could be substantial "based on the damage that The Dallas Morning News has done to our business and to me personally." 
But Richardson said his civil 
pleadings did not allege a spe­
cific damage amount. 
"We have had millions of dol­
lars of publishing contracts that 
have been voided or not insti­
tuted by customers based on 
the fact that The Dallas 
Morning News has printed 
these stories that th(ly have 
printed," Dockery said. 
Dockery, a 1966 A&M gradu­ate, said the school's general counsel informed him in a July letter that his contract for the 100-year football celebration was being re-evaluated. 




Not evenyour local 
dietcenter offers reductions 
likethis. 
Spartans drop Irish rugby, 16-5 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club faced its first collegiate oppo­nent since last spring in a 16-5 loss to Michigan State on Saturday. 
The Spartans jumped out to an early lead and then exploit­ed the lead to keep the Irish on the run the rest of the game. Despite the lack of attempts and offense in general. the Irish defense was promising. Juniors Matt Meko and Brian Hitz both turned in solid performances on the field while senior Jim Sperduto provided some on­field leadership. 
On the B-side, Notre Dame defeated Michigan State 27-24 with the help of solid play from freshmen Matt Reintjes and Andy Nachman. 
The Notre Dame-Michigan State game is usually a compet­itive and down to the wire match. Although the Spartans upset the Irish on Saturday, Notre Dame bested Michigan State last spring. 
The team is still optimistic about the rest of the season despite the loss to Michigan State because it traditionally gets off to a slow start. With a early season schedule, it is hard to get into a rhythm. 
In addition, because the club is comprised of a lot of young players, it has taken time for the improvement to show. After practice this week, Club President Mike McGowan is expecting things to turn around this weekend. 
• 

Apple Macinlasb Cclor Ckmic• 4/l1J, Buill-in J(J' 4/EJJ, Apple Basic Coler Cclor Monilor &Apple Kll)board /1. Monitor &Apple Keyboard JJ. 
Right now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh" personal computers. You can also get special student financing with the Apple" Computer Loan'-to make owning aMac" even easier. Th 
Observer/Sean The Notre Dame rugby team dropped a 16-5 contest to Michigan State, but hopes to rebound Saturday against Purdue in West Lafayette. 
This weekend, the Hughy Boilermakers finished second Club travels to meet Purdue at Midwest Regionals last prior to the football game. spring while the Irish finished McGowan is expects that the third. The game starts at 11 contest will be a close one. The a.m. on Saturday. 


'\. •',•t.:.•·t:),..• ,.• ' i ·~ t ,,,,•.¥:1'.-~ ....,., ~ \,...1$~\
N 

·"'.ii•"''"~· ······~·-··"· ·ra··,.,......~-~~:~~
l~'t#~~~~~~-.~~4~i~'~itllk~~ ~j-t-~·· \~~. t.:: --. 
~  I  N~~  ...~.  
Built·ill Ke;board & J(J' Backlit Super Twi!i Mooocbrome Disflay.  Apple Maci111asb Ccntris'"610 4/l1J, Apple &sic Color Monitor &Apple Exlended Ke;board JJ.  

see just how affordable aMacintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus Reseller today. And discover the power more college students .;. choose. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your best~ •~ 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Anyone Interested in playing field hockey should meet at Loftus at 9 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday. If you have any questions, call Christy at X2966 or Bonnie at 273-6591. No experience needed. 
Club Hockey-Anyone interested in playing club hockey contact Rob at X1950. Leave name, number and year. 
Attention Skiers-There will be an informational meeting on Thursday, Sept. 23 at 8:00 p.m. in Hm 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. All those who may be interested in the trip to Breckinridge, CO over Christimas vacation, or in trying out for the ski team should attend. 
Anyone interested in coaching youth hockey for the ND youth hockey league call Debbie at 277-7519. . 
Any women interested in playing lacrosse with the Saint Mary's/NO women's lacrosse club, please caB Emily Hage at X2856 or Michelle McQuillan at X2894 by Sept. 24. Beginners are welcome. 
Notre Dame Sports Information Is looking for volunteer help for the 1993-94 academic year. Their office handles statistics, press releases and media guides for all Irish varsity sports. For more information, call Rose at 631-7516. 
Happy 
22nd 

Angela! 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
... 
Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
---~­

....------~--------­
TODAY 
Wednesday, September 22, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
t-ii1NK's SEARCH FOR REJeCTION MAN CDtHINUfS. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

1-lf>-'J£ '<OJ BEE~\\ REJ\\)\l{G f'RETI'{ SooN, CO~\>\JTI:.R'S., A'i!JIJT 11-IE "ELECTR<J~\C. TELE P\-\0~1.;5 f>..~\) 1\l s 


give a. sU~~~l'esentation Fri . 4 
Morea,utQQl$CillSS both hispastwork and the pieces =-+--1---1---+--llhe c.w:rerttlY at Saint Mary'sMoreau Art Gallery. 
ACROSS 
1 Actor Jimmy -from 
N.Y.C. &Scrooge 
utterances 10 Slightly open 14 West Pointer 15 "\acta--est" 1& Banjoist Fleck 17 Rocket stage 18"0ur-," 
Gershwin musical 19\n the distance 20 Standard-size garb 23 Hamlet's cry of distaste 24 G.l. 's respectful assent 25 Compose 
27\nnocentone 29 Rap~ael's "La 
32 Great Barrier Island 3& Seine sights 38 Support for Hopper 39 Cotton cloth for sheets 41 --non grata 43 Court-martial 44 Endings for pay and boff 4& Biblical oldster 47 Cherubini work 48 Rectangular pier 50 Unite firmly 53 Black Sea port 58 --loss for words 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
WILL A\l. B\:: 1-\00~ED TOE>t:~ER TO BRI~G 11-\STht'\TP.,\'-I£Cl'JS, lt'{\£.0,ACT\I/E CDMM\Jt-\\C/1-1\0N R\G\-\1 \NIO 
OJR. 1-\01'-AES .' 

\~ 
>'' '~ ') ~ 
60 French for 20 Across &2 Reasonable &4 Bird, to Brutus 65 Em plane 
&& Prof's creation &7 Clock sound 68 Fisher or Foy 
69\s out of sorts 70 Individuals 71 Author Anya 
DOWN 
1 Frightening 2 Sade in "Marat/Sade": 
1965 
3 Concepts 4 Takes care of 5 Sit-down strike, 
in London & Bath, in Madrid 7 Round pompano 8 Hayes or 

13\JT DAD SA.'iS 1-\E l\1(8) IT BETIU WI-\~ '{o\J \.\AD TO C.C»\1'.\\l~\ c.r..,~ B'i MMl, A.~\) '10\J '(~EW 
'\0\J INO\Jl\')t-\1 \-\E1><R BfliCI( \'RoM t o 

"-N'\ \SOD~ FOR 2-tel ., />..T LEr>..SI f\ ~-..:..... "r-S' 
WEEK. 
BILL WATTERSON 
OF Co\JRSE.. n~ ~ 2\<S~­
'{OIJI!. \)J\D \1-111'\K<; C£NWR'i T\l.JI.t\':>~~Tr>-1\0N '(\i> Wr>-?1'£'\l ')1.\Cl'Jl\)~£. SIOI>f'ED \N r>, \~ \\\· W\"11-1 W£ ~\C.K\.£. CENJ\JR'I 
HM\l'1. 


Reddy 9 Kind of bar 10 Lawyer's org. 11 President Clinton's middle name 12 Kyrgyz range 13 Seldom seen  30 Comedian Jay 31 "Woe is me!" 32 Vision: Comb. form 33 U. of Md. athlete 34 De Witt Clinton's pet  42 Prevent legally 45 A crisscross structure 49 Houses of clay 51 Muse for Sappho 52 "The Rosary" composer  55 City, in Koln 56 A comic like Chaplin 57 She was Miss Brooks 58 Cruising 59 Hack &1 Inquires  
21 Cowboy route  project  54Wearaway  &3 Muts  
22 More mature  35 Without-in  
the world 

26 Hector Get answers to any three clues 
37 Bridge 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Congolese 40"... -unto 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
Prime Minister my feet" 


Webster's Collegiate Dictionary defines _ .. 

Drink: to take liquid into the mouth for swallowing; to take in or suck up; excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages 
ZER®
Drank: past of drink Drunk: having the faculties impaired by alcohol; drinking to the point of intoxication Intoxication: an abnormal state that is essentially a poisoning Vomit: an act or instance of disgorging the contents of the stomach through the mouth; 
to spew forth; to eject violently or abundantly (i.e. when you drink, and drink, 
e)N&
and drink until the flow of fluids reverse) Sensible: having, containing, or indicative of good sense or reason Responsible: able to answer for one's conduct and obligations; able to choose for 
oneself between right and wrong; see also Zero-One-Three 
THR:lf. 
If you have any questions, please call the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 
Zero = Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically dependent, on certain medications, or pregnant. 
One = One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking. 
AND 

Three= No more than three drinks per day, and never daily. 

, 
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, September 22, 1993 
Holtz still has questions about Irish defense 

see MARTEN I page 11 

Golf Chris O'Connell and the Irish golf team placed 1Oth at Purdue Invitational. 
see page 11 
Inside SPORTS 


JOCK STRIP 
Female athletes 
. 
gatn respect, 
.
notoriety 
N
otre Dame has always had a 
history of great sports teams. If 
asked, one could cite any of the national champion football teams or the 1992 NCAA runner-up men's tennis team, but now there is a whole new crop of teams making their mark in Irish sports legend. 
And what's more, they are all women's teams. 
It seems that Notre Dame women are earning the respect of opponents across the country on the field and on the court with their skill and their toughness. 
With the rise of the women's soccer team to third in the national rankings and the success of the volleyball and softball teams at tournaments this weekend, these female athletes are starting to turn heads. Members of the Notre Dame community have begun to realize the talent that exists here on campus. 
But this is not a trend unique to Notre Dame. The quality of women's athletics all over the country is improving with exponential increases in athletic prowess in just the last four years. 
One of the reasons for this is that sports are finally becoming acceptable extracurricular activites for women. They are no longer expected to just go to dance class or babysit after school. 



By Brian Kubicki Associate Sports Editor 

With the distractions of the early season no longer looming over himself and his team, Lou Holtz seemed much more re­laxed at his weekly press con­ference Tuesday. 
He is not, however, taking Purdue (1-1) lightly. 
"I hope and I think our foot­ball team is ready for a big game, because that's what it will be on the road," the head coach said. 
He said that his main areas of concern for practice this week are the tackling of the defense, the consistency of his offense, and the play of kickoff and kick return teams. Holtz expressed the greatest concern about the defense, which faces Purdue's tricky option offense. 
"Our defense had better play very, very disciplined. We have to be able to tackle well," he said. 
If the past two weeks reveal a developing pattern about the Irish football team, it is that whatever Holtz stresses as a weak area in his Tuesday press conference shows as a Notre 
Associated Press 

WEST LAFAYETTE 
Purdue receivers Jeff Hill and Jermaine Ross were outstanding in their last game. They will have to be even better against Notre Dame. 
The senior wideouts combined to catch six passes for 186 yards in the Boilermakers' 28-13 win over Western Michigan two weeks ago. Purdue coach Jim Colletto said Tuesday he hopes to get them the ball even more against the Fighting Irish on Saturday. 
"In the last game it really came to what we'd like to do," Colletto said. "They're going to figure in this game. We've got to get the ball in the hands of the players who make plays." 
Hill, a converted tailback, scored on an electrifying 68-yard catch-and-run to cap an awesome first half against Western Michigan in which Purdue (1-1) gained 409 total yards and built a 28-3 lead. 
One of Ross' two catches went for 38 yards, and he also returned three punts for 32 yards and a kickoff for 20 yards. He is 38th in the nation with an average of 132 all-purpose yards a game. 
"Most teams have talent, but they get an awful lot out of their talent," Notre 
Dame coach Lou Holtz said of the Boilermaker receiver Jermaine Ross is 38th in the nation in all-purpose yardage, averaging 
Boilermakers. "Their skill people are 132 yards a game. really playing well." 
interference on what appeared to be an outstanding play. 
Hill and Ross will be matched against 
"Anytime you get good athletes
one of the best secondaries in the nation. 
matched up on good athletes, there's aFree safety Jeff Burris has two of Notre lot of competition involved," CollettoDame's five interceptions, and corner­said.
back Bobby Taylor has one. Taylor, who Colletto also said he isn't worried about is outstanding in coverage, also had a his team being motivated to play No. 4leaping interception called back against Notre Dame (3-0). despite a miserableNorthwestern when he was flagged for Dame strength on Saturday. dominating defense and I don't 

Two weeks ago, there were see us being a dominating questions surrounding the of­defense in the future," he said. fense, particularly around the On offense Holtz is looking for quarterback position. Against a consistency that has been Michigan, Kevin McDougal an­lacking in the first three games. swered those questions. He pointed out that his offense 
Last week it was the running is not getting consistent game. Michigan State discov­yardage on each down, but has ered that Irish running game as to rely on long gains on second Notre Dame's offense rolled up or third down to get the first 247 total rushing yards. down. 
This week Holtz is just look­ing for tackling. "We are not a see HOLTZ I page 11 
Photo courtesy of Purdue Sports Information 
second half against Western Michigan in they didn't do." 
SMC Swimming Saint Mary's swimmers splash into the season with a new head coach. 
see page 11 

Rugby Notre Dame Rugby club continues its season against Purdue this Saturday. 
see page 14 which the Boilermakers had just three first-downs and 75 total yards. 
"We're not good enough at this point to just roll the ball out," Colletto said. "When we play, and when we play in sync with each other, you're going to get halves like we did the other day. 
"I'm more concerned about duplicating what. they did than worrying about what 


