

Thursday, September 23, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 19 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Alumni quilt effort continues 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
Student government's effort to bring the NAMES Project AIDS Quilt to campus in February continues after the Office of Student Affairs rejected an alumni offer to partially fund the visit. 
The group, led by 1972 graduate David Pais, pledged $6,500 to cover a portion of the expenses of the quilt project. In July, Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice presi­dent for student services, sent Student Body President Frank Flynn a memo informing him that du Lac prohibits stu­dent government from accepting dona­tions or soliciting outside funds for the project. 
Although Pais and several other mem­bers of the group are homosexual, Patricia O'Hara, vice president for stu­dent affairs, said she was unaware of this and denied that this was a factor in the decision. 
"It would not have made one iota of dif­ference to me who the funding came from," she said. "I would not have approved it." 
"With an operating budget of half a mil­lion dollars, student government projects have to be funded by student govern­ment," she added. 
By cutting advertising for the project and depending on various free services, student government will still be able to afford to bring the quilt to Stepan Center this spring, according to Flynn. The cost will drop from the original estimate of $11,000 to $8,000. 
"We're trying to squeeze out funds from other already set budgets throughout the year and cut the funds for the AIDS pro­ject to see if we can whittle it down some," Flynn said. "It will have to be smaller scale project, but we're looking into a lot of different options." 
Student Affairs rejected the funding because solicitation of outside funds and 
see QUILT I page 5 

Clinton offers his health care plan 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Proposing a top-to-bottom makeover of the nation's health care system, President Clinton called Wednesday night for ambitious reforms guarantee­ing every American comprehensive medical benefits "that can never be taken away." 
Clinton, in a speech to a nationally broadcast session of Congress, said his plan would reform "the costliest and most wasteful health care system on Earth without any new broad-based taxes." 
Laying out his rationale for the biggest social initiative since the New Deal, Clinton said the current system is "too uncertain and too expensive, too bureaucratic and too wasteful. It has too much fraud and too much greed." 
Pointing to his own proposal, which would require all employers to provide health insurance to their workers, the president said, "Let us guarantee every American comprehensive health bene­fits that can never be taken away." 
Clinton spoke for 53 minutes to a House chamber packed with lawmakers and dignitaries who interrupted him 32 times with applause. 
The president signaled a willingness to compromise over the course of what is sure to be months of debate. "On this journey, as on all others of con­sequence, there will be rough stretches in the road and honest disagreements" about how to proceed. "After all, this is a complicated journey." 
Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole said Republicans would work with Clinton to fashion a new health care system, but he warned of dis­agreements ahead. "In the complex debate that will come in the months ahead, let's keep in mind four key issues: choice, quality, jobs and cost," Dole said. 
Clinton said that under his plan, some 
How coverageis paid for 
The basic principle 
UnderCiinton's_proposal the employer pays 80% otthe average monthlypremium, regardless of whatplan the individual chooses, and the employee 
pays the remaining amount. 
Alliance plans 


··'$9'6­

Americans would be asked to pay more but that the vast majority would pay the same or less for health care coverage that would be the same or better than they currently have. 
To help pay for it, Clinton said he 
Peace movement 'should defend life' 
ByNICKRIOS 
News Writer 
The peace movement should defend life at all times. said Jim Forest, current head of the Orthodox Peace Scholarship and editor of "Peace Media Service" in a peace conference yesterday at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Forest lectured on the impor­tance of peace and non-violent movements. He began the evening by showing slides of peace supporters and activists that have inspired him and others to seek peace solution to our daily problems. Gandhi, Martin Luther King and Cesar Chavez were included in the slides. 
One slide showed a group of black and white people sitting down together, side by side, in front of a counter on a cafete­ria. Behind them a very large group of white people were pouring ketchup, mustard and many other things on them. 
"Although it is tragic to see atrocities like this, the disci~ pline of accepting violence without retaliating is a great achievement. These people were absorbing violence in the hope that it would bring about a change in their adversary," said Forest. 
The next slide, however, pre· sented a large crowd of men and women, black and white, raising a black man who had been born in slavery and lived long enough to legally register to vote. "We also have mo­ments of victory and joy when the effort of peace is put forth," said Forest. 
After the slide show, Forest gave a lecture, addressing what a peace activist strives for and the problems with which we, as Americans, should be more concerned. 
"Most peace movements come about as a result of wa.rs and violent period a particular country has experienced. The basis of the movements in th~ United States are also as a re­sult of wars that we have lived," Forest added.· "The soul of peace movements and need not die our enemy, that if we are concerned enough we can make a person who began the day as our adversary be our enemy no longer at its end. 
"We have got to seek for the seed that sparks in our minds ways of ending conflicts and violence around us, so that we may see those who· were ene­mies embracing themselves instead," he added. 
In a personal interview after the conference, Forest ad­dressed the issue of abortion. "If you ask me, I feel that any peace movement should defend •. human life at all times. Whether born or unborn, he who is a seeker of peace should not be an abortion advocate. Unfortunately, I have found that some peace advocates also advocate abor­tion," Forest commented.···• 
Forest ended, "Peace making is a lot like cooking. We a.re all interested in the outcome but.. 
the reason why we ail seek the · all should be also contributors same thing is that no matte~·.· to the recipe and the cooking what part we played in the itself. No matter what you end war, whether we were in the up working at, you should use front lines, directing missiles it as a resource to try to bring or just home waiting for loved peace. ·If your job prohibits ones, in suffering we are one.:· you from this, then perhaps, as he said. , · Christians, you are in a job Forest said that our enemy that is not for you," said Fo}'est ..•. 
would impose new taxes on tobacco but he dropped the idea of increases for beer, wine or hard liquor. Clinton also said he would seek a "modest" tax on corporations that opt out of the health alliances. 

Notre Dame moves up in university polls 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame moved up a notch to 25th among national universities, and Saint Mary's slipped two places to fourth among midwest universities in 
U.S. News and World Report's seventh "America's Best Colleges" survey. 
For the fourth consecutive year, Harvard University is ranked first of 204 national universities in the survey. 
Notre Dame reached a high of 18th in 1988, fell to 23rd in 1989, then dropped out of the top 25 after the magazine added a category measuring spending per student. 
Saint Mary's has been in­cluded among the top midwest universities for seven years. The regional grouping includes schools that generally award more than half their bachelor's degrees in two or more profes­sional disciplines. 
The study combined statisti­cal data -measuring student selectivity, faculty resources, financial resources, graduation rate and alumni satisfaction­with the results of a survey of academic reputations among 2,655 college administrators. 

BEST NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES 
1. 
Harvard University 

2. 
Princeton University 

3. 
Yale University 

4. 
Mass. lnst. of Technology 

5. 
Calif. lnst. of Technology 

6. 
Stanford University 

7. 
Duke University 

8. 
Dartmouth College 

9. 
University of Chicago 

1
0. Cornell University 

11. 
Columbia University 

12. 
Brown University 


-13. Northwestern University ... 14. Rice University 
15. 
Johns Hopkins University 

16. 
University of Pennsylvania 

17. 
Georgetown University 

18. 
Washington University 

19. 
Univ. of Cal. at Berkeley 

20. 
Vanderbilt University 

21. 
University of Virginia 


22. Univ. of Cal. at Los Angeles ;r 23. University of Michigan i 24. Carnegie Mellon University · 25. Emory University 
25. University of Notre Dame 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, September 23, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

01993 Accu-Wea\hel', Inc. 
FRONTS: 
............-............... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1993 Accu·Weather. Inc. 
Pressura H L HIGH LOW  a &:;.'! ITII 0 fZ] ~ll SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE  (1­SUNNY  ~ L3 U PT. CLOUOY CLOUOY  
Via Assoc:Mt9d Pmu  

TEMPERATURES  ChiCago Columbus  77 74  52 55  Miami Minneapolis  89 65  78 57  
Dallas  95  76  New Orleans  92  72  
City  H  L  Denver  58  48  New York  64  57  
AHanta  89  63  London  64  55  Paris  64  59  
Baltimore  73  60  Los Angeles  76  61  Philadelphia  67  60  
Boston  62  56  Madrid  73  59  Rome  86  64  

Imagine the reality of God's -world 
Someday there will be a time when dolphins and whales can swim in sweet synchronicty without fear of being trapped. They will soar through the waters that have always been theirs without a doubt that they will suf­focate in nets. They will flash past boats, look humans in the eye. and smile. 
Someday the citizens of other countires will not know what it feels like to characterized as "third world" or "underdeveloped." They will have their own gardens and grow their own food. They will have water that doesn't stream out of cattle­polluted swamps and will know what it feels like to simply be healthy. 
You may say I'm a dreamer. 
Someday women will not have to fear their safety or their privacy as they walk home after dark. Women will not be targets of violent crimes and considered the weaker. They will have the power and success to "bring home the bacon," yet they will keep their nurturing ways and "fry it up in a pan". 
Someday teachers, who educate the children of this world, will earn more than athletes who shoot a ball through a hoop. Masses will praise the teachers for their endless hours. patience and support that they offer the oth­ers. Pupils will realize what a gift education is-especially when it's free. 
But rm not the only one. 

Someday blacks will walk through the fine jewelry department of Hudson's without being stared out suspiciously. Hispanics will speak their language freely without resentment from everyone else who simply can't understand them. Native Americans will not be confined to reservations neglected by the United States government. "Minority" will not have the con­notation of "lesser than" or "inferior to". 
Someday the homeless will have homes and the bare-backed will have clothes. Poverty will be nothing more than a word in the dictio­nary that no one can understand the meaning of. Children will grow up with all that they need, not wishing that they had something else. 
I hope someday you'll join us. 
Someday cancer and AIDS will be wiped out with the drop of a pill or the injection of a shot. People will not fear disease. They will not lose a loved one because of an illness that seems like unexplainable punishment. 
Someday the mentally ill will not be treated as convicts. They will not be locked in cells and shot up with morphine to keep them quiet. They will express their talents and show that they are no different than anyone else; and perhaps even better for overcoming their obstalces. 
Someday there will be no need for special peace argeements. All arms will be demol­ished and war will be a tragedy of the past. 
And the world will be as one. 
Someday, this world will be exactly the way God intended. Someday. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TOOAV'S STAFF 
News Production Theresa Aleman Cheryl Moser Corrine Doran Ron Veldman 
Allison Ebel 
Spons Brian Kubicki Graphics Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and v:acation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righ!S are reserved. 
Train wreck kills at least 40 
SARALAND 
An Amtrak train jumped the tracks on a bridge and plunged into a foggy bayou before daybreak today, trap­ping passengers in a submerged car and killing at least 40 people, authorities said. 
Thirteen others were missing, said Coast Guard Lt. Cmdr. Bob Maki. It was the deadliest crash in the history of Amtrak, created in 1970 to run the nation's long-dis­tance passenger trains. 
All three engines and four of the eight cars on Amtrak's Sunset Limited derailed just after 3 a.m. in a remote, swampy area on the northern outskirts of Mobile, Amtrak spokesman Clifford Black said in Washington. Two of the derailed cars were passenger cars, including the one that was entirely submerged. A section of the bridge was col­lapsed. 
"It's conceivable today's catastrophic accident could eclipse the number of fatalities for our entire 22-year his­tory." Black said. He said 48 people had died in Amtrak crashes before today. The worst previous single Amtrak crash killed 16 people in January 1987 in Maryland. 
The Sunset Limited originated -in Los Angeles and was headed for Miami. 
Bill Crosson of Tallahassee, Fla .. said he, his wife, Vivian, and at least three others narrowly escaped from the rear of the submerged car. 
"The water just rose immediately up to the top," said Crosson. "I mean, there was just room for air." He said they .were in the water for up to 45 minutes, clinging to debns, before someone spotted them, shined a flashlight and yelled, "Fellows, this way!" 
Survivors in the cars that did not go into the water reported that a fire that erupted from the derailed engine and the collapsed bridge hampered their efforts to save others. 
"The train had gone into the water," said Cliff Hurst of London. "It was burning but the bridge was down. We couldn't get there to give any help. There was no way you could get to it." 
He and others said they managed to pull some passen­gers out of the water, which Amtrak said is about about 25 feet deep. 
Tom Jennings, a police spokesman, said the dark bayou water made the search for passengers difficult. "The vis­ibility is not very good," he said. "Divers are having to go through it by hand." 
The cause of the accident was not known, and Black said he did not want to speculate. A section of the bridge was collapsed after the wreck, one car perched precari­ously at the edge of the damaged area. 
Oprah gave premature birth at 14 
CHICAGO 
Oprah Winfrey says the death of a child she had at 14 was "my greatest shame," and she felt betrayed when a half-sister told a tabloid about the child. 
"I went home and got in the bed and cried," she said. "I thought the world is going to hate me when they find out I had a baby." 
Winfrey said the baby died after being born premature­ly, and her family gave her little support after she told them it might have been fathered by an uncle. 
"Because .. .I had already been involved in sexual promiscuity, they thought if anything happened it had to be my fault," she said in Ebony magazine's October issue. "And because I couldn't definitely say that he was the father of the child, then the issue became, 'Is he the father?' not the abuse." 
Winfrey said she is finally "letting go of that shame." 
INDIANA Weather  NATIONAL Weather  
Thursday, Sept. 23  The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 23.  
Accu-Weather•forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures  Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.  



Sources: Alabama Dept. of Highways, AP Mobile (Ala.) Press Register 
Defense secretary threatened with contempt 
LOS ANGELES 
A federal judge who ruled the Navy's ban on homosex­uals unconstitutional ordered the secretary of defense and other officials Wednesday to explain why the policy is still in force or face contempt charges. 
In a one-page order, U.S. District Judge Terry Hatter Jr. instructed Defense Secretary Les Aspin, the secretary of the Navy and the commanding officer of Moffett Field Naval Air Station to appear in court Sept. 30 or send agents to represent them. 
They must "show cause, if you have any, why you should not be held in contempt for continuing to enforce the Department of Defense's policy regarding gays and lesbians," Hatter wrote in the order. 
Maj. Jeff Lovell, a Department of Defense spokesman at the Pentagon. said officials had not seen Hatter's order and could not comment on it. 
In March, Hatter ruled the Navy's ban on homosexuals was unconstitutional. The 9th Circuit Court of Appeals rejected the government's request for an emergency stay of the ruling. 
The ruling was in response to a lawsuit challenging the ban that was filed by Keith Meinhold, a petty officer at Moffett who was honorably discharged last year after revealing on national television that he is homosexual. 
"I think they have a very tough row to hoe because the obvious intention of the judge's order was to end the practice by the Department of Defense of banning gays and lesbians," said Meinhold's attorney, John McGuire. 
Thursday, September 23, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page3 
Beauchamp responds to charges 
SMC debates over exam week test and papers
By BRIAN POSNANSKI 
News Writer 
Last night at St. Edward's Hall, University Executive Vice President Father William Beauchamp tried to put allega­tions still hovering over the University and its football pro­gram because of the book "Under the Tarnished Dome" to rest. 
Speaking to about 30 people in the hall chapel, Beauchamp answered the three major charges that authors Don Yaeger and Douglas Looney make in their book: wide­spread steroid use, abuse of players and a lower academic standard to boost the success of the football team. 
Beauchamp began by refer­ring to the book's last line, which states, "Without [foot­bali], Notre Dame is simply a small Catholic institution with a great chemistry department in small northern town with lousy weather." 
"There's a lot more to this school," said Beauchamp, "but that sets the tone for the rest of the book." 
Beauchamp first responded to 
the book's charge that steroid 
abuse is rampant in the Irish 
football program. The al­legation first appeared in a 1990 Sports Illustrated article written by former Irish lineman Steve Huffman. 
According to Beauchamp, the University employs an inde­pendent laboratory to analyze drug tests. Drug tests check for ali illegal substances, not just steroids, and indicate if an ath­lete is using masking agents. Beauchamp said that in 1500 tests administered during his tenure at the University, only five have turned out positive. 
"We have at Notre Dame the premier drug testing program in college sports. It is done in such a way that it is impossible, impossible, to give a fake sam­ple. To suggest that there is widespread drug abuse is ludi­crous," Beauchamp said. 
Beauchamp then addressed the allegation that the University has lowered its aca­demic standards. He said the book sets forth the premise "that there are people on this campus who shouldn't be here. That's simply untrue." 
"The determination of who is 
admitted to the University is 
made solely by the admissions 
office. Coaches certainly don't 
have the final say," he said. 
"There is no school that grad­uates more players in Division 1-A football. We think the most important thing is that football players are here to be stu­dents." Beauchamp pointed out that the percentage of football players who get iil disciplinary trouble is the same as the that for the whole student body. 
He denied that Holtz abuses his players and forces them to play injured. "That [charge] is really so ludicrous it doesn't de­serve much comment," Beauchamp said. "The decision to keep a player on the bench for an injury is made by the team doctors and not coach Holtz," said Beauchamp, who also criticized the authors for labeling Holtz as an abusive coach. 
"There's no question football is a physical sport," said Beauchamp. "It is not a democracy to fmd out who does what. To me, the determining factor is what the players say about him." In interviews con­ducted with graduating seniors, Beauchamp said that support and praise for Holtz were over­whelming. 
"We emphaticaliy deny the 
see BEAUCHAMP I page 4 

By LAURA FERGUSON 
News Writer 
In an attempt to relieve Saint Mary's students' final exam­stresss, the Student Academic Council (SAC) issued a request last spring to the faculty asking that no tests be given the week prior to final exams. 
The request did not ask -that papers not be made due during that week, and this fall, in re­viewing the policy, students and faculty have no major com­plaints with it. 
Once the faculty was alerted to the problem of students' stress, professors relaxed their expectations, said Student Body President Mary Beth Wilkinson. 
"I think that the request was a success and no conflicts were reported to us; however, people may not have informed us of any problems," Wilkinson said. 
Some professors, although not in opposition to the SAC re­quest, did not see a drastic change in students' str-ess. 
"I did not notice any less ten­sion in my students," said Nancy D'Antuono, associate professor of modern languages. 
"The problem is that final exams, in themselves, are stressful.." 
Some students, according to Philip Bays, professor and chair of the chemistry and physics department, want as many tests as possible to help break down material. 
"Typically, I give four to five exams per semester to ac­complish this. Because of this, I have gotten little feedback from chemistry and physics students asking for no tests so close to exam week," Bays said. 
Junior Amy Hartzler said, "I do not mind tests so much because that usually means that less will be expected on the final, and, in a way, it helps me to study." 
Other students completely supported the SAC request. 
"One of my professors last year loaded the week prior to finals with quizzes," said sophomore Colleen Hagan. "Although these were not as stressful as tests, they still re­quired studying, and I still ended up having to cram for exams the night before in most classes." · 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Drawing from the Founding Charism 
The French priest who founded the Congregation of Holy Cross, Fr. Basil Moreau, was an energetic man of spiritual depth and ecclesial vision. When his new order was still only a few years old, he sent his followers to the comers of the world, to Asia, Africa, and America, to preach and to teach the Gospel of Jesus. From the very beginning his followers were meant to be multi-ethnic and crosscultural, serving in a variety of countries with a consistent zeal. French and Irish, Polish and Bengali, his followers were trained not to allow national boundaries to limit their compassionate service or their interpersonal relationships. 
Moreau began his community by uniting a small group of priests together with a another group of lay teaching brothers. A few years later he also started a group for religious women, and announced his intention to join -he three groups together into the one "family" of Holy Cross. Each group was to have a distinctive work, but all would be united in one union of prayer, cooperation, and respect, "a visible imitation of the Holy Family." He saw this union as "a powerful level with which to move, direct, and sanctify the whole world." 
This second part of Moreau's vision, the collaboration, was ahead of its time. It was unique in the life of the church of that time, for Moreau to try to unite priests and brothers, clerics and laymen, into one community. To seek structural equality between the two groups was to go against the system of the wider church. To live as if clerics (i.e. the priests) and laypeople (in this case, religious brothers) were equal was to do something radical in the church which understood itself as inherently hierarchical. The later addition of women as another equal branch of the group proved too much. 
In 1857 the constitutions of the young community were officially approved 
and recognized by Rome. The priests and brothers were allowed to stay 
together as one community, but the Holy Cross Sisters were split off to form 
their own independent congregation. From that time on, the Sisters have 
been legally separated, though still united in affection and respect with the 
priests and the brothers. 
Hopefully, it is worth noting the history and founding charisms of Holy 
Cross. Perhaps these early insights bring direction and challenge to our 
present time. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's (and to a lesser extent, Holy Cross College) are 
schools which seek to cultivate a global vision. Our economics and political 
science, our literary and artistic canons, our philosophy and theology all 
require an opening to the wisdoms of the wider world and a concern for the 
suffering of distant peoples. A truly Catholic education is one which 
embraces the whole world as its subject and concern. 
Fr. Moreau's second insight, his encouragement of collaboration, is perhaps an even more pertinent wisdom, which we should seek to internalize here and then go share with the wider Church. Our founding vision is one which requires full respect and equal esteem for every "ministry." Priests and layfolk, men and women, in the Holy Cross charism are all meant to be affirmed and encouraged. All are called to work together as equals. 
When the dormitory's liturgy committee is busy planning and the 'musicians and readers practice, when the priest focuses his sermon well and the eucharistic ministers are all properly trained, then the Sunday Mass comes off beautifully. In a symbolic way this portrays the situation we hope to find present in the day to day life of our institutions. There are many gifts for the building up of the one body. All are needed for its true progress. 
150 years ago Fr. Moreau's vision was not understood by the wider church and it was not deemed proper for men and women to live and work together as one religious community. In recent years the Holy Cross priests and brothers petitioned Rome for the right to elect anyone, whether a priest or a brother, as their Superior General, hoping to make a final sign of the equality of the two groups. For the Vatican, this idea was still too pushy and the request was denied. 
Sometimes it's worth it to keep pushing. A strong proclamation of our love for the world as one (rejecting narrow nationalisms) can never be wrong. A strong proclamation of the equal value of the ministry of men and women, and of clerics and laity, seems also well founded in our heritage. Let's hope 
these founding insights can underpin all that we do. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C 
WEEKEND PREsiDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. September 25  5:00 p.m.  Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C.  
Sun. September 26 10:00 a.m.  Rev. Regis Duffy, O.F.M.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C.  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING Ezekiell8: 25.-28 2ND READING Philippians 2: 1.-11 GosPEL Matthew 21: 28.-32 
Thursday, September 23, 1993
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
CAMPUS BRIEF 
•All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. faculty and staff planning to attend the Notre Dame-Purdue football gamt} this Saturday should be aware that they may be ex· posed to measles on the Purdue campus. 
A measles case was con· firmed on Sept. 14, and health officials there have undertaken an immunization program for those born after 1956 who have no record of having received two doses of measles vaccine after their flrst birthday. 
Those attending the game from Notre Dame should con­sult family or medical records to determine whether or not tli.ey have received the neces­sary vaccine doses. 
I . 

While the risk of exposure from simply attending the game may not be significant, that risk may increase for those spending time on the Purdue campus in areas such as residence halls, local bars a.nd other gathering spots. 
For further information, contact the University Health Center at 631-7497. 
SM C library updates policies 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

The Saint Mary's Cushwa­Leighton Library entered the electronic age this fall by aban­doning the old-fashioned man­ual circulation process and go­ing on-line with the NOTIS computer circulation system. 
"We are extremely excited about the new on-line system," said Collection Management Coordinator Katherine Ward. "Not only has the circulation process been made easier but our library now has access to information available at larger institutions." 
The library is still dealing with the glitches in the system from loading and re-loading data to include Notre Dame stu­dents and faculty on the Saint Mary's data base, Ward said. 
"This is going to be a tough transitional year," Ward said. "We hope to address and cor­rect as many problems as pos­sible in order to get everyone on-line, items barcoded and statistics generated." 
The NOTIS system, developed at Northwestern University will allow students to access infor­mation from Notre Dame, Holy Cross College and Bethel 
Kirstin, Happy 21st Birthday 
Love, Mom, Dad and Stacy 
College. As technology contin­ues to advance, more choices will be made available to stu­dents, according to Ward. 
"This has opened up a whole new world to everyone," said Reference Librarian Julie Long. "We have the exciting new po­tential to manipulate informa­tion from so many different places." 
Students need to be aware of time constraints because the internet system and inter-li­brary loan program takes addi­tional time, said Long. 
The library staff and the ad­ministration at Saint Mary's have also adjusted to the needs of the student body by extend­ing the number of days that students may keep library ma­terials. Students may check out books for 28 days instead of the 21 days ·as in the past, and check out periodicals for 24 hours rather than the 9 p.m. to 9 a.m. policy of last year. 
"The students' needs are changing," Ward said. "They need more time and have more specific topics to research." 
"Research in the library can seem confusing and over­whelming, but students need to get past the barrier of technol­ogy and should feel comfortable asking for help," Long said. 

Beauchamp 
continued from page 3 

whole premise of the book," Beauchamp went on. "We're very proud of Lou Holtz and the football program." 
When asked why he did not appear on ABC's "Nightline" to refute the book's allegations he said, "What that does is give them credibility they don't have. I felt very strongly about that." 
He added that the University has no plans to sue the book's publisher, Simon & Schuster. Such a move would take too much time and money and at­tract too much publicity, ac­cording to Beauchamp. 
......_CLIFFS QUICK REVIEWS~ 
When you need help preparing for a test, think Quick. Cliffs Quick Reviews are the new study guides from the leader in study guides: Cliffs Notes. 
Cliffs Quick Review guides are written to aid understanding of introductory college courses. They are perfect for use as general course notes and for review before quizzes, midterms and finals·. 
Do better in the classroom, and on papers and tests with Cliffs Quick Reviews. 
SENIORS! 
JOIN THE SERVICE COMMITTEE 
We Need Your Help to Plan Events for the Year 
Informational Meeting Thursday Sept. 23 at 5 PM Dooley Room, 1st Floor LaFortune 
Dismas House Dinners  Catholic Worker House  
Party for children at El Campito, Oct. 12  5/lOK Run  
+many other events  

Questions: Call Regina Hoagland, 4-2687 

I I 
I l 
~ 

-~----------~----~~~~~-~-----~~-------­


Thursday, September 23, 1993 
Rough campaign did not halt attorney general 
By JOSE CARLOS BIANCO News Writer 
A rough campaign did not slow down a determination to practice public law said Pamela Carter, the only black woman currently serving in the U.S. as attorney general and the first black ever to be elected to state office in Indiana. 
Carter spoke yesterday at the Notre Dame Law School on the obstacles she had to surpass to become attorney general in her speech, "Race, sex, and the law: How a black woman be­came attorney general and how she intends to use the power of that office." 
She talked about the harsh 
BENGAL BOUTS NOVICE TRAINING 
Begins Monday, September 27 
Meet just inside Gate 3 ofthe J.A. C. C. at 4:00pm for an informational meeting 

Purdue Road Trip-
Catch the Actiorz! 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue Septen1ber 25th 
Round trip bus transportation to Ross .. Ade Stadiun1 (Buses leave at 10:00 am fron1 CCE) 
Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Student tickets to gatne now available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
campaign she had to fight, telling students how "corrupt" and hurtful politics can be, cit­ing as an example that she had to prevent her children from watching television because, according to Carter, the cam­paign became filled with inde­cency. 
Regarding prejudice, she said that she had never felt prejudice for being black but instead for being a woman. 
Carter said that her staff is composed in its majority of women although she has two men in key positions. She said that she thinks she will run her office in a manner conscious of the gender prejudices and ob­stacles she overcame herself. 
The Observer • NEWS 
Quilt 
continued from page 1 
acceptance of donations are in violation of policies outlined in du Lac, according to O'Hara. 
Although Pais and Flynn said the donation from the group was not solicited, the du Lac policy also encompasses the ac­ceptance of donations, O'Hara said. 
"If you look at provisions in respect to du Lac, in general we don't like student organiza­tions soliciting outside funds," she explained. "That's the whole purpose for student government having its own budget and deciding within budgetary guidelines which projects it can fund and which it can't." 
This policy, which applies to all University offices, is an ef­fort to centralize fund-raising within the development office in University Relations, O'Hara said. The University does riot want student solicitation to conflict with its own national fund-raising efforts. 
But Flynn holds that in the past, student government has been allowed to fund projects with outside money. 
The change in policy is "kind of strange because in the past we've had funding from the outside ... like our lecture series, that is sponsored by trustee members," Flynn said. 
O'Hara said the lecture 
series, sponsored by William 
Sexton, vice president of 
University Relations, is consis­
~ 
j 
@).1;­
~ 
tent policy against solicitation because the money was raised through the development office. 
The issue of funding student government projects with stu­dent government funds came up several times last year, ac­cording to former Student Body President Greg Butrus. 
In an attempt to bring former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to Notre Dame as part of the lecture series, stu­dent government wanted to so­licit alumni for donations. Butrus was told that if he want­ed Gorbachev to come to cam­pus, he would have to use his own funds. 
"The issue of keeping student government projects funded 
CORRECTION 
In a story yesterday on the National and Community Service Act, the Observer incorrectly stated the number of individuals attending Tuesday's signing ceremony. Close to 1,400 people were actually in attendance. The Observer regrets the error. 
with our own money came up a bunch of times last year," Butrus said. 
Flynn said the donation from Pais' group was unprecedented. Pais became involved with the quilt project after being con­tacted by South Bend resident and Notre Dame alumnus Bill Klem, who was instrumental in bringing the project to campus. 
In his discussions with Carol Seager, director of University Health Services., Pais asked for recognition in the form of a 'thank you' to the gay and les­bian alumni of Notre Dame, but said he was willing to forgo the gesture in order to insure the quilt's visit. 
"In my discussions with Seager, I said that certain alumni were very interested in making it known that we were gay or lesbian and that we made these contributions," Pais said. "I told her that my main interest was saving lives and if I could prevent some people from contracting AIDS by the increased awareness that the quilt might bring to students at Notre Dame-that was my fo­cus." 
'-f':, •. . .. ~ •.•.· •. :. ~-~.1-::~:c.. ~·-­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 23, 1993 
Yeltsin boosted by military and popularity 
By JULIA RUBIN 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
President Boris Yeltsin's bid to control Russia gained strength Wednesday, buoyed by support from the army and cheering crowds. His hard-line opposition sat barricaded in parliament, struggling to re­spond. 
Bonfires burned for a second night outside the Russian par­liament building, where as many as 5,000 anti-Yeltsin demonstrators ringed the build­ing to protest his suspension of parliament Tuesday. Protesters waved red Soviet flags and stockpiled rocks, pipes and Molotov cocktails. 
Despite appeals by Yeltsin's opponents for a nationwide strike, there were no reports of protests elsewhere. State tele­vision aired the usual shows, traffic was normal, and many Muscovites sat outside enjoying the balmy weather. 
Hundreds of people ap­plauded and shouted "We sup­port you!" when Yeltsin and his military commanders made an impromptu visit to Moscow's downtown Pushkin Square. 
"He should have done this a long time ago," said Alexander Kuznetsov, 4 7, who sells pho­tographs to tourists in the square. "The Russian people have put up with a lot, and the parliament is just resorting to hooligan tactics." 
Yeltsin told the crowd he would avoid bloodshed. 
"We would not like and do not intend to use any force," he said. "We want everything to go peacefully, without blood." 

Defense Minister Pavel Grachev said the military "unequivocally supports the president as commander-in­chief." In an apparent show of force, the army held troop ex­ercises in several cities. 
A public opinion poll taken Wednesday in Moscow showed a majority of capital residents supporting their president. 
It said 51 percent of 880 re­spondents supported Yeltsin and 25 percent opposed him, although nearly a quarter of those polled either had not heard about Yeltsin's decree or had no opinion. The poll by the All-Russia Center of Public Opinion Research had a 3 per­cent margin of error. 
Yeltsin has been locked in an 18-month power struggle with lawmakers who want to slow the country's transition to free markets, prop up state indus­tries and pursue a more na­tionalistic foreign policy. 
Parliament on second debate day 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM 
Israeli lawmakers waged a bitter marathon debate Wednesday on Israel's peace agreement with the PLO, while one report said early elections over the issue were possible. 
In the occupied lands, Jewish settlers and Palestinian oppo­nents alike demonstrated against the accord, and inter­Palestinian skirmishes were reported in the West Bank. 
The clashes came a day after a leader of Vasser Arafat's Fatah PLO faction was assassi­nated in the Gaza Strip. 
Palestinian journalists said street skirmishes broke out between two groups within Arafat's Fatah faction in Nablus, the West Bank's largest town. Two Arafat loyalists and two dissidents were wounded in fighting that erupted Tuesday night and continued Wednesday. 
The reports said both groups used rifles, pistols and swords. 
In Jericho, Jewish settlers 
drove through town in a convoy of about 60 cars to protest the agreement. They honked and raised Israeli flags, and also waived a Palestinian flag to show the accord would lead to a Palestinian state, which Israel opposes. 
The Palestine Liberation Organization says the accord is the first step toward an inde­pendent Palestine. Palestinian opponents cite its failure to deal with the future status of Arab east Jerusalem, which was annexed by Israel follow­ing the 1967 Middle East war, or with the status of Jewish set­tlements in the territories. 
Protest demonstrations also continued Wednesday outside the Knesset, or parliament, where the debate on the PLO­Israel accord was in its second day. 
About 150 protesters tried to break into the parliament building, dragging a live goat, before being turned back by po­lice. 
The agreement, signed Sept. 13 in Washington, doesn't need formal parliament approval. 
If there's a secret to being one of the world's leading international professional services firms, it's this: 
Continue to recruit high-performance, self-motivated professionals and nurture them in an environment that stimulates growth and creative thinking. 

But Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin made the vote the test of his government's future, and its fall could derail the peace plan. 
Rabin's coalition was fighting for a convincing majority to support the accord. But the ul­tra-religious party in the coali­tion, Shas, demanded a na­tional referendum on the issue. 
Rabin's spokesman Gad Ben­Ari said the premier opposed a nationwide poll. 
"What is needed is a simple majority, which we hope and believe we will have," Ben-Ari said. 
Without the six-member Shas, the government controls 61 seats with the backing of five pro-PLO Arab legislators who are outside the ruling coalition. The government had hoped to win approval of the accord with a Jewish majority. 
The mass-circulation daily Maariv said Wednesday that Rabin would consider calling early elections if he won only 61 votes in the 120-seat par­liament when a vote is called Thursday. 
e e e 

Every day, in more than 600 cities around the world, Ernst & Young is meeting the challenge of global leadership. Our commitment to superior service is carried out by over 64,000 dedicated professionals worldwide, including 23,000 people in the U.S. alone. 
If you are prepared to meet the challenges of leadership, join Ernst & Young. 
For more information, visit your Office of Career Planning and Placement. 
AUDIT, TAX AND MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
October 6 
Presentation & Reception Alumni Senior Club, 7:00pm 
October 7 and 8 
Campus Interviews 
MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
November 9 
Campus Interviews 
ill ERNST& YOUNG 
An equal opportunity employer 
From Your Very First Day 
~---------------------------------·---------------~----------------------------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 23, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .•............ Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ..................•. George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Batch Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is rhe independenr newspaper published by rhe students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­rion of either institution. The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­mrials represenr rhe opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. ,Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Sainr Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­muniry and <0 all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advetrising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Phom 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

ETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 
No thank you to Mark Krejci, who argues with a straight face for an "American Catholic Church: separated from the Vatican," (The Observer, September 21). 
This brief but amazingly stu­pid offering from "Dr." Krejci manages to combine blatant falsehood, poor reasoning, and bold assumptions of authority in just one column of print. 
Krejci first graces us by let­ting us know that "there is a growing discontent among Catholics in this country," and that "the pope's recent visit to the United States is proof of this." Perhaps in a future arti­cle he can explain how thou­sands of loyal, cheering follow­ers packing Denver for the Pope's visit is evidence of a "growing discontent." 
Only a few paragraphs later we are informed that "62 per­cent of American Catholics dis­agree with the Church's posi­tion on birth control." Without questioning his obviously scien­tific statistical study, I'd like to ask when the Vatican should 
DOONESBURY 
PRESIOtNTKIN(i fAJ& DON'T R£PR&5l3NT7HtMUW-mMt­
RAC/AL.., 81-6ENO&R YaJ'V& 
I  5TU/?!3NT  BANI?W  
At/...1­ANC£...  T~H&R 70PRIJTC;ST  
7HUNOOF  
stPARATI'3M.  

change their doctrine on con­traception. When the American barometer of Catholic layper­son opinion reaches 51 percent in support of sponges and con­doms? 
If we see a day when 58 per­cent of American Catholics sup­port daily masturbation, should the Vatican pump out an encyclical saying, "Sorry, we're wrong, you're right-please masturbate freely without feel­ing any guilt." If next year only 48 percent of American Catholics support birth control will he write an article support­ing the Church's position? 
The Catholic Church has not survived for 2,000 years by serving as a guide to trendy moral behavior. What makes the Catholic Church so strong is its unwillingness to bend in the face of passing controversies, even ones brought forth by ssis­tant viewpoint editors who think they know more than the pope. 
Christ told the first pope that whatever is bound by him on earth is bound in heaven. 
()Jt THINK YOUR. N/3W 
fOUCYlO~A~ 
THISCAMPU'36 CAT£3­601</CAU.Y RAC/51, MI506YNI5T ANI?ReAC­
TIONARY! 

There have been wicked popes since then but there has never been fallible doctrine. The most admirable characteristic of the Church is her unwaver­ing ability to stand behind what she says. Not many institutions can claim to do the same today. That is why the Church has been able to survive so long and will be able to survive long after we are gone. She doesn't let 62 percent of American peo­ple guide it. She lets God. 
I am personally disturbed by Krejci's ridiculous comment at the end of his piece that accus­es the Church of "intellectually stagnancy." That is a bold thing to say, even from the mouth of a person with the lofty religious authority of the author. He should check his own intellect, and keep his absurd Church-saving ideas in his Assistant Viewpoint Editor's desk. I'm a little more confi­dent in what Pope John Paul and the Catholic Church says than what "Dr." Krejci does. 
CHRIS MCCONN Off-Campus 

lH&RffOR£' 
()Jt HAV& 
fJRAWNUP 
A t/STOF 
2b [)[3­
MANI?5... 
/ 
INCR&IJIBL.&. 
ImL.UI<E 
I'M BACK. IN 
7Ht '60s.., 

Dear Editor: 
I write in response to the Inside Column by Mark Krejci headlined "A New Church to Combat Stagnancy" (The Observer, September 21). I agreed completely with Mr. Krejci until about the end of his introductory paragraph. 
After stating that "the Catholic Church in America has been increasingly disgruntled at the Vatican's sluggish capac­ity for change and reform," Krejci proposes that the American Catholic Church sim­ply separate from the rest of the world in the interest of defeating narrow-mindedness and "intellectual stagnancy." 
Mr. Krejci argues that people remain "good" Catholics even if they support issues opposed by the Catholic Church, such as artificial birth control, homo­sexuality, and divorce. 
This argument is being used more and more today: "I am a practicing Catholic, but I dis­agree with some of the posi­tions of the Catholic Church." I challenge Mr. Krejci and other advocates of a separate and more "tolerant" American Catholic Church to insert Jesus' name in place of "The Catholic Church." 
"I am a practicing Catholic, but I disagree with some of the teachings of Jesus." 
American Catholic Church would breed, not fight 'stagnancy' 
After all, the Church today is based on the original teachings of Jesus. It is not "intellectual stagnancy" which results from the Vatican's efforts to pre­serve Jesus' teachings, but the unadulterated Catholic faith. A more "tolerant" American Catholic Church, such as that proposed by Mr. Krejci, would not be Catholic at all, and would certainly not be based on the teachings of Jesus. 
Mr. Krejci's idea to support a separate American Catholic Church is that the Vatican will someday realize that it had been wrong, and subsequently decide to support the use of artificial birth control, divorce, and homosexuality. 
Where would the Church be today if Jesus' disciples had decided to doubt that Jesus was really sure about His teachings, and proceeded to insert their own beliefs into what Jesus taught? By doing just this, Mr. Krejci breeds nar­row-mindedness and "intellec­tual stagnancy." 
In order to remain Catholic, and even Christian, we must follow the original, untainted precepts of Christ, and thus the Catholic Church. 
PATRICK CAWLEY Alumni Hall 

''That man is the richest whose pleasures are the cheapest." 
-Henry David Thoreau 
.......------------------------~~---------­
ACCENT 

Multicultural festival 
highlights Notre 
Dame's diversity ... ., .·_· 
.. .t 
'

By TANYA KRYWARUCZENKO an annual event. 
.. ,.,..

Assistam Accem Editor The festival is not only popular among 
"'--ll'~

the students. however. "We also get a During the week of Sept. 26 to Oct. 2, nice representative number of faculty 
-~«4ia./' ' 

those who think that there is no diversi-and administrative staff who attend the ty at Notre Dame are in for a rude events," said Lanan. awakening. A wide variety of groups will be repre-
During this week, the eighth annual sented during the week. Multicultural Fall Festival will take "Our definition of multiculturalism is place, wherein the various ethnic clubs not exclusive to race and ethnicity," and performance groups on campus will Acosta explained. "Everyone has culture Courtesy of MEC highlight their cultures and celebrate to them-whether it be their religion or Several ethnic clubs have daily events planned throughout the week at the Fieldhouse the diversity of the world. their hometown region." Mall. 
The main purpose of the festival, The Multicultural Fall Festival will HIV positive patient who will speak SYR dates to the Taste of Nations," saidsponsored by the Multicultural reflect this idea through the variety of about her experiences. Another presen­Lanan.
Executive Council, is to educate and bands and talks presented. 
tation entitled, "How could both Dan Students are invited to come before,involve others in all different cultures The festival will kickoff with a perfor­Quayle and Murphy Brown be right?," after, or in between their SYHs for a
according to Adele Lanan, assistant mance of campus bands on Sept. 26, 
will be given by Joan Aldous of the soci­break from their dancing. She
director of mediar-------------------,from 12 to 2 p.m. at 
ology department, will discuss families described the dress code for the evening for Student Spon.sored6y: the Fieldhouse MalL 
of today. as "casual elegance." Admission is 
Activities, and n.I [t· urt .,.01-,r ec t"ve Counci! A spiritual cele-These chats will be held daily from $1.00.
:JYLU lC LiU,, L-'J U l l d
adviser to MEC. bration, entit e 12:15 to 1 p.m. in 202 LaFortune, with Along with the Multicultural Fall"The Council has " M u 1 t i c u I t u r a I lunch provided for all attendees. Festival, MEC will co-sponsor a variety
three goals-to edu-Reflections," will 
"When we first started our fireside of events with other organizations dur­cate others, to edu-also be held on Sept. 
chats we had 20 or 30 people come. ing the week. 
cate in a non-formal 26, from 2 to 3 p.m. 
Now, especially as the week progresses, MEC and La Casa de Amistad, an
classroom setting in the LaFortune 
somewhere between 50-80 people organization in South Bend, will host aand to interact with Ballroom. 
come," said Lanan. luncheon for high school students takingthe community out-"The spiritual cele-The week ends with the gala "Taste of a foreign language on Sept. 29.
side of the class-bration is a unique 
Nations," featuring food and dance from "It's a celebration for high school stu­room," said Lanan. event," said Lanan. 
around the world, which will take place dents. One of the goals of the organiza­
"Basically, the "It's a coming 
on Oct. 2, from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m. at tion is to have more interaction with the purpose of the festi-together of all re-Stepan Center. community-especially with high schoolval is to reach out to ligions, sharing some "It's kind of a celebration of the whole students," said Lanan. NO students will
the student body aspect of whatever 
week and everybody coming together," help the high school kids to understandand Jet them enjoy, religion they believe said Lanan. Last year, Taste of Nations what college is like, and will encourage
learn and respect in." 
drew almost 2000 people, according to them to attend college. 
other cultures," said senior Patricia Other events include "Where the West Lanan. MEC will also co-sponsor a lectureAcosta, one of the eleven members of was One!," a night of western dancing "Taste of Nations is probably our most with the Office of Multicultural StudentMEC. on Sept. 28 beginning at 8 p.m. in the advertised and biggest event," Acosta Affairs.
"We always say that if one person LaFortune Ballroom, and "Tales of 
said. 

comes to an event, it was a success as Three Countries," in which stories from 
A variety of ethnic appetizers pre­"It's a lecture on Hispanic Culture
long as we've educated that one per-Mexico, India and Italy will be told. 
pared by Notre Dame Food Services will highlighting Puerto Hican history andson." This event will take place on Sept. 30 be offered, which can be enjoyed while music," said Iris Outlaw, director of theThe first festival, held in 1986, was from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Snite Museum. 
watching performances by Sabor Latino, Office of Multicultural Student Affairs.
started by Lanan as a way to unite and In a series of daily events throughout a campus band, Troop N.D. and Ballet The presentation will be made on Sept.
promote the diverse groups within NO's the week, students walking to class or to Folklorico. 29, at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
student body. their meals will be able to get a taste of In addition, there will be meringue, Any questions concerning the multi­"When I first started my job here, I the festivaL limbo, jitterbug and twist contests. cultural fall festival should be directednoticed that all the different cultural "Culture on the Quad" will take place "We encourage people to bring their toward MEC at 631-8037. 
groups were only going to their own each day at lunchtime on Fieldhouse events," said Lanan. Mall, with Egyptian belly dancers, Troop 
"I felt there was not only a need to NO and the Hawaiian, Philippines and have each culture learn more about Japanese Clubs participating in these themselves, but about other cultures as events. welL" A series of fireside chats will also take 
Lanan pulled together a group of place throughout the week, with topics approximately ten students and success-to be discussed including how natural fully established a week-long series of disasters have affected the truck driving cultural events, which has now become industry. and speakers including an 


Courtesy of MEC 

Courtesy of MEC
As part of the events for the Multicultural Fall Festival, students can compete in a limbo 
Daily fireside chats are a popular component of the festival. 
contest at the Taste of Nations on October 2. 
----------~--~----------~­
;ACCE-NT
Thursday, September 23, 1993 page9 
The Samples bring their eclectic sounds to Stepan 
MUSIC PREVIEW ANNE HEATON 
If Butt-Head attended Notre loyalty, just as they had used group's success is its signing Dame, and had heard that The word of mouth four years ago with the tiny recording label Samples were coming to ND, he to gain fame and widespread W.A.R.? ( What Are Records?) might turn to Beavis and say, attention. in April 1992. W.A.R.? gives "Beavis, I have waited up all The road to fame for The The Samples the freedom they night long for a band that Samples has not been an easy need for constant touring. doesn't suck to come to cam­one. W.A.R.? has signed only pus. The Samples are cool, In 1989, The Samples signed three bands, and has primarily huh-huh, huh-huh." with a major record company, functioned as a grand scale 
Considering the recent fare but felt suffocated by the rep­producer of The Samples' four that has performed on campus resentatives' various control­albums: "The Samples," (New Kids on the Block and ling tactics, according to the "Underwater People," "No Amy Grant come to mind), members. Room" and "The Last Drag". Butt-Head would have a valid In November 1991, the group Notre Dame students can point. For students who have decided to get away from the anticipate a switch of focus in waited along with Butt-Head company and instead promote the songs performed on Friday. for a decent band to come to themselves through nonstop In "The Last Drag," The Notre Dame, their waiting is touring. Samples have moved away finally over. That year, The Samples from social and environmen­
This Friday, The Samples will released their second album tally oriented themes to songs 
come to Stepan Center in sup­"Underwater People," selling it about Jove and relationships. 
port of their latest album, "The on the road. In the meantime, On the new album, lead 
Last Drag." The Samples developed a high­singer Sean Kelly retains his 
Hailing from Boulder, ly communicative and active swaying "twang-like" vocals 
Colorado, The Samples are an fan club, in which club mem­while the band leaves behind 
eclectic musical group, with bers marketed and distributed the underwater gurgling back­
songs in their repertoire that the band's albums among their ground tones of "The Samples" 
are both serious-themed ("Feel friends. Some fans even helped and "Underwater People." The 
Us Shaking") and peppy ("Smile to secure concert locations. group presents complex, 
for the Camera"). This networking strategy sonorous, swelling counter­
The band's highly resonant paid off, first with perfor­melodies in its new pieces while 
Photo courtesy What Are Records?
and simple musical style, cou­mances in small bars such as still maintaining the reggae/folk 
The Samples will perform their unique blend of reggae/folk rock songs 
pled with the members' laid­northern Chicago's "Biddy rock character of previous 
on Friday night at Stepan Center. 
back attitude toward their pro­Mulligans" and Dennison albums. 
file has produced a growing University fraternity houses, The Samples continue to use and engaging musical offerings information desk for $8 or at 
and cult-like enthusiasm among which eventually led to an quirky album cover art. "The promise to make the concert an the door, provided the show is 
fans. appearence on the Jay Leno Last Drag" cover features col­enjoyable event for everyone. not sold out. Doors will open at 
The Samples' recent success Show and a spot in this sum­orful childrens' drawings of At the very least, they won't 7 p.m. on Friday, with the per­
can be attributed to their non­mer's H.O.R.D.E Festival, which trees, mountains, cars and suck. formance beginning promptly 
stop touring, relying on word of also featured Blues Traveler. nature scenes. Tickets are available at the at 8 p.m. 
mouth to rekindle their fans' The key to much of the The Samples' fun-loving spirit LaFortune Student Center 
ND broadens language department with Chinese chair 
By KENYA JOHNSON given to Notre Dame by the Chiang fessor of government, Michael Oregon, said she wishes to emphasize Accent Editor Ching-Kuo Foundation For International Brownstein, associate professor of clas­speaking rather than reading and writ­Scholarly Exchange. sical and oriental languages and Dian ing. 
There was a time when learning After three years, the University will Murray, associate dean of Arts and "There are so many students who just Spanish or French was the "in" thing to provide the necessary funds to maintain Letters, [each have a special interest in read their assignments all semester do; being bilingual was politically cor­the program. Chinese history or language] chose Wei long, but if they had to have a conversa­rect. "The three-year grant enables us to Deng for the salaried professorship from tion in the language, they wouldn't know 
Today, people are still trying to go the start a steady program of Chinese stud­among many other applicants. where to begin," explains Deng. 
bilingual -even trilingual -way; but ies," said Daniel Sheerin, chair of orien­"Deng had an extra spark in her eyes "Speech is the most important part of now it's Portuguese, Japanese, Greek tal and classical language and literature when she came on her visitation last any language. You not only learn the and even Chinese. department. year," said Sheerin. language better," continued Deng, "but 
This year, with the help of a $130,000 "We've offered Chinese language "She's a very dynamic young lady with you learn about the culture through grant, Notre Dame introduces a perma­courses on an irregular basis before, but much to contribute to this university. I speech." nent Chinese language and literature we realize in today's world it's neces­have no doubts that with her, this pro­Teaching the Chinese culture is an program to its students. sary to begin a permanent program," he ject will be successful," said Sheerin. integral aspect of Deng's class as well. 
-
The grant, which will pay the salary of says. Deng, who holds a degree in compara­She explained that she tries to have a Chinese professor for three years, was Sheerin, along with Peter Moody, pro-tive literature from the University of authentic material on display for every 
The Observer/Dave Hungeling 
tributing to the intellectual life here at
Wei Deng, a new professor to the University, is now teaching Beginning Chinese. Deng, a native to China, came to the U.S. in 1985. 
Notre Dame." 


page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 23, 1993 
The Observer acceprs da.ssifieds every bl!Siness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from I 2 p.m. to 3 r..m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All dass1fieds must be pr<paid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
·­
NOTICES 

Typing 287-4082 
WANTED: MALE WHO ENJOYS RUN­NING AND EATING PANCAKES. DOMER RUN-SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100 FOR MORE INFO. 
Custom tailoring Aterations Repairs 273­1483 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Black trunk at the end ol92-93 school year. Full of sweatshirts, NO softball Items. Disappeared from hallway in PW. Possibly put in someone's storage or mis­takenly taken home. Reward. Please call (313)856-6828 
Found... One key ring in 203A O'Shag. To claim please call Mike V. at 4-3661. 
LOST: one eyepiece to binoculars in sec­tion 29 at the MSU game. if found call 273­4801 
LOST: I lost a Ricoh camera and a memorable roll of film in a blue camera bag during the M.S. football game. Please call Erica @ 282-2965 if you ~now about eitherl 
FOUND Sunday 9/19 on the east side of the library on a ledge: dorm keys and car keys. Call Doug at 234-6306 to claim. 
LOST: A Diamond Tennis Bracelet at Red Field. Oftering a REWARD of $1 00. If found call Alicia at 273-6897. Extreme sentimental value. 
lost: Green army-type bookbag with German book and dictionary. Reward. 237­
0659. 
Found -Sliver necklace. Call271-2911 to Identity 
I left an NO bookstore bag at Stepan fields on Monday following soccer practice. Inside was a pair of shoes and an SMC Rome program T-shirt. Keep the shoes,man, I could use some new ones. But please return the shirt to Dave In Morrissey 4-3651. 
Found -Gold bracelet @ Campus View Apts. Call 273-5909 to identify 
Found -Elizabeth A. __, I found your football tix in DeBartolo. Call 273-6405 
WANTED 

FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8 TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CAN­CUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800­678-63861 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT-Make money teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to $2000-$4000+ per month. Many provide room & board + other benefits. No previous lralnlng or teaching certificate required. For more Information call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584 
GREEKS & CLUBS 
RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST ONE WEEKI For your fraternity, sorority or club. Plus $1,000 lor yourself! And a FREE T­SHIRT just lor calling. 1-800-932-D528, ext. 75. 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn 
up to $200Q-$4000 or more per month on 
fishing vessels or In canneries. Many com­
panies provide transportation and room & 
board. No experience necessary. Male or 
Female. For more information call:1-206­
545-4155 ext. A5584 
Desperately need a ride to and from Cleveland lor the weekend of Oct 2. Will help pay lor gas. Call Phil x0549. 
Need ride to Marion OH,9/25.Will pay lor gas Dan X 1694 
FRIENDLY VOICES NEEDED TO 
CALL AREA RESIDENTS FOR 
AMERICAN HEART ASSOC. 
START IMMEDIATELY. M-TH 5-9 
pm. SAT. AM. CALL258-4018 
Person needed ASAP to transcribe tapes lor dissertation project. Can work at own convenience. Good typing skills a must. Can pay $1 per page. Please call Bob Hanna on campus (1-7336) or home (291-1380). 
Desire companion to/fro Sarasota Fl. Thanks vac. in exchange lor partial air fare. 291-5401 WANTED: DOMER WHO LIKES TO RUN. DOMER RUN-SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL631-6100 FOR MORE INFO. 
FOR RENT 

BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES-ND/SMC 
EVENTS 
(219) 291-7153 

-GRADUATE STUDENT ROOM­HOUSE @ ANGELA & PORTAGE SHARE WITH OTHER GRAD STU­DENTS. PRIVATE ROOM KIT., STUDY ROOM, $180 MO THRU MAY. COULD INCLUDE GARAGE AT $30 MO. 
START OCT 1. WE WILL CALL YOU. POST­CARD TO 
Boxno NO 
IN 46556 OR LEAVE VM MESSAGE (619)-299-0212 

Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront -Private. 257-9101 
LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN. SECURI­TY SYSTEM. WALK TO CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS $225. M0.272­6306 
FOR SALE 

Foosball table 4 sale. Tornado commercial heavy duty. Good shape. $650. 299-1644 
BEER SIGNS OF All KINDS CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 

Original Macintosh 128K computer with mouse and keyboard. $75 or best offer. Call Jesse at x3261 
'83 FORD ESCORT, 4 dr, air $700 20" Sony Trinitron TV $100 VCR $100 273-9042 

St louis bound? And trip TWA direct flight tix lor female Oct22-Nov1 $135: 233-2698 
81 HONDA PRELUDE $645 Sunroof, AC, AM-FM Cassette, 104K miles 2n-9245 
KEYBOARD Yamaha DX-27 w/ Accesories $300 or best. call KJ @ 232-7838 
P. Shawn Burk will show you his rat brains if you ask him nicely but whatever you do, don't ask to see his flying wilderbeast 
1 0 speed like new bike lor sale $20 or b/o @ 273-5097 
TICKETS 

I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL TIXS.272­6306 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL JANE AT 1-800­264-3278. 
NEED G.A.'S -3 PITT, 4 USC, 4 FSU. PLEASE CALL Joe @ 1613. 
NEED 2 USC TICKETS CALL JULIE AT 284-5511 
DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO PITT GAs-Will PAY BIG$$$$. CALL ALl SA @ 4-1302. 
FSU TIX NEEDED!! II II II CALL CRAIG @273-3942 PLEASE!! 
Need 2 Fla. St. GA's Best offer-call T J 232-5030 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC MATT @ 232-3870 
NO vs USC -Need tickets lor 10/23 game.Chris Marks 800-523-3139. 

WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST. GA:s 2n3097 
#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ 

Help! I need four tickets to the Boston College game.... 
II you would like to make a hot babe's day with 4 tix, call Elisa at 634-2703 ... 
@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# 
HAVE GA's EACH HM GM 271-1681 
NEEDED: 2 Pitt GA'S Tony x3327 
I really need 4 USC G.A.s­thanks! diane x4253 Need 2 USC tickets, stud or GA Need FSU tickets, stud or GA 
Call Dave at 4-3507 

NEED 1 Pitt GA/Stud.$$$ call Sue x2768 
NEED 2 PITT TIX. GA'S OR STUD. 
PLEASE CALL LISA x1297. 

WILL BUY 1 EACH FSU/USC OR TRADE OCT9UM-MSU 271-8689 (CAL) 
All I need is an FSU student ticket. Tim x1517 

Nedd 1 Pitt Ticket -GA or Student -so that my little brother can attend the game. Will pay big bucks. Jim x1865 
Would really appreciate 1 USC Student ticket. Call Phil x0549 
NEED 2 PITT GA'S & 2BCSTUDTIX x2300 

Will buy or trade 2 BC GAs lor 2 Pitt or USC GAs. Kim @ x2545 
Need 2 USC GA's will pay in USCurrency John 273-5828 
$$ WANTED! I $$ 
FSU and BC TIXII 
273-3930 Tracy 
$$ WANTED! I $$ 
FSU and BC TIXII 
273-3930 Tracy 

NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO USC. Please call lisa after 5 P.M. at 232-2728. 
lmportantllllilllll!llllll!ll!lll Need 2 or 4 GA's lor BC NO Alum-Fanatic Will pay any price!!IIII!! Call Katie 4-3390 (leave message) 

NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354-8826 AFTER 5 PM 
Need 2 Pitt tix -GA or student. Call Sean x1223 
**** 4 SALE**** 
2PITT GA'S (40 yd.line) 
Best Offer #2364 
WANTED: 2 USC GA's. 
Will trade 2 BC Married St Tix (no 10 needed) and $$$$. 
Call Dan @ 273-1497 
I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY MIKE x2292 

WILL TRADE 2 GOOD PITT GAs lor any 2 FSU GAs. 272-9248. 
HELPII NEED 2 GA's FOR BC ­WILL SELL 1 PITT GA CALL HELEN x4026 

Need Help!!! Will trade a USC stu. tix lor a BC stu. tix. Call Hildita X4846. 
Last week, I was rich enough to buy and sell you 40 times over. This week, I have nothing, so I'm selling 2 PURDUE GAs. Call JOE RUSSO at 234-6306. 
We Need PITT TIX 2 GA's and 3 stud. Call Jeff at 1612 or Kristen at 2812 
I NEED GA'S FOR USC & BC NICKX1n7 

Need 2 Pitt Tix, Student or GA; Call lisa x2449 
For Sale 2 Purdue Tix, Face Value Call Kara, x2449 

will trade pitt GAs lor FSU GAs. 233-5130 
will trade USC or PITT std. tix. lor FSU std. tix. 233-5130. ask lor mike. 
NEED 2 FLORIDA ST. GAs Call Jessica@ X1298 
PITT AND USC GA s WANTED FOR RICH ALUMNI $$$232-1348 
NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210 
I am Selling Purdue GAs cheap. 
I need Pitt GAs. 
call Mike at 277-8135 
NEED GAs FOR PITT GAME 
PLEASE CALL 273-4979 
ASK FOR SUSANNE :-) 
LEAVE A MESSAGE$$$$$$ 
########################### 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED U S C TICKET 1111 
II you going home lor break and need to sell your ticket-
HERE'S YOUR CHANCE ....... 
CALL 273-4979 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need 2 PITT GAs (bad seats preferred) lor my in-laws.273-0282 

DYING GRANDPARENTS' LAST WISH: SEE PITT VS. NO NEED 2 PITT GA'S DONALD x1724. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME. MIKE@ 1724 
Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261 

I WILL BUY 2 USC GA'S. AFTER I BUY 2 GA'S I WILL BE SELLING 1 STUDENT FOR USC. CALL BROOKE X4369 
NEED 2 PITT GA'S MIKE x1534 
NEED 1 USC GA. CALL ED X1194. 
4 Football Tickets Notre Dame/BYU (801)798-2340 Evenings. 

NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479-1429 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2 FLA ST GA'S. WILL CONSIDER STUD TIX. 800­223-1700 x295 Shawn. 
I NEED STANFORD TIX CALL JOHN x3485 
"I NEED TICKETS" 3 Pittsburgh (10/9) Bill@273-2823 
NEED TICKETS I need tickets lor these games: BC (student ticket) PITT (student and GAs) Call Jen or Nicky at X1308 
SALE 2 PITT & BC GA's Call Dan x3666 
HAVE 4 Pitt GAs NEED 2 FSU GAs Call Jason @ x2052 to TRADE, buy, or sell 

Stud Tixbook 4 sale.Call233-5735,7-8p.m 
NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General Adm. only. Call Sam Santo (H) 201-217-0030 (W) 201-992-8700 
I need 2 or 4 USC GA's Call Ryan @ 0585 
FOR SALE 
GAsior all home games & Stanford 288-5282 

WILL TRADE 2 BC FOR 2 USC 
OR 2 FSU FOR 2 GOOD USC 

FRANK 232-2256 (late evening)] 
••HOT BABE..HOT BABE•• HOT.. 
Needs 1 Male and 1 Female STUD ticket for USC. CALL x: 27031/ask lor ELLIE!! 
BABE••HOT BABE •• HOT BABE•• 
NEED PITT tix X3731 -Reeny 
Need GA's to any Home Game 232-1852 
Need 1 USC G.A.I Will buy or trade lor 2 Pitt G.A.s 
Call Karen at 4-4987. 
PERSONAL 

THANK YOU St. Jude lor glnd/smc po 194, ND IN 46556 
Seeking information regarding European travel and backpacking lor the summer of '94. Good time for two frugal students. Please call Theresa-x2496 or Bevin-x2569. 
SOUND TECHSI SOUND TECHSI Student Activities is now hiring sound tachs to operate Lafortune technical equipment. Apply at 315lafortune. Minimal experi­ence needed---will train on equipment. 
NO VIDEO GRAND OPENING WEEKEND 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday­
First 1 00 movie rentals get free microwave popcorn. 

PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
Hey Off-campus seniors .... 

The PW talent show needs you!! 
We are having it on Thursday, Sept 30 in Theodores .... 
It's big time now so get your acts together and call Jen Marten at 634-2706 to sign upllll 
PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
Hey PWites ... 
The talent show is coming ... 

We need acts!! Be daring ... Be bold ... You don't have to have any real talent... just be creative ill 
The big event will be at 7 p.m. in Theodores on Thursday, Sept. 30. 
To sign up, see Jen Marten. 

PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
ADOPTION: We offer love, encouragement and security to the precious life your are carrying; a lull-time mom and loving dad; married 12 years; promises that your child will have every opportunity. Please call Phil and Maureen at (800)545-8195. 
WANTED: ANYONE WHO LOVES PAN­CAKES AND IS WILLING TO RUN 3 OR 6 MILES TO GET THEM. DOMER RUN ­SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL631­6100 FOR MORE INFO. 
HAPPY B-OAY BRUCEIIIIIIIII 
It's a town lor losers, I'm pulling outta here to win. 
I want to die with you Wendy on the street tonight In an everlasting kiss ... HUH I 
Beast, OINK, OINK Love, FatBoy 

We learned more from a three minute record, babe Then we'd ever learned in school. 
and of course ... WELL I GOT THIS GUITAR AND I LEARNED HOW TO MAKE IT TALKII 
Hey Ted Bills (My little Brother)II 
I'm sorry I dissed you lor so long! !II Have a groovy day anyway! 
Your B.P. Big Sis, Amy 
The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
R)ran's last season could be cut short 

Enter to win a Fun Makeover and Photo Session! Mail your entry to: Beauty, Elegance & Style Contest 
P. 0. Box 4698, S. Bend, IN 46634 by September 30, 1993. NAME 
ADDR=Es~s~------------------­
By JIM COUR Associa·ced Press 
SE{\TTLE 

Nolan Ryan's 27-year base­ball eareer may have ended Wednesday night when a doc­tor found a suspected torn liga­ment in the Texas Rangers pitcher's right elbow. 
Baseball's strikeout king failed to retire a Seattle batter, walking four and allowing two hits, including a grand slam to Dann Howitt, and trailed 5-0 when relieved in the first inning. He threw 28 pitches. 
When he came out. Ryan asked to be examined by a doc­tor, according to Rangers trav­eling secretary Dan Schimek. Mariners team physician Dr. Larry Pedegana said he sus­pected Ryan has a torn ulnar collateral ligament. 
Schimek said that if the diag­nosis is correct, Ryan won't be able to pitch again this season, which he has said is his last. 
Ryan's last road start was over while fans were still filing into the Kingdome. For only the third time in his career, Ryan failed to retire a batter. 
After Howitt's grand slam, Ryan went to a 3-1 count on Dave Magadan and Texas man­ager Kevin Kennedy made a pitching change. 
A crowd of about 50,000 gave Ryan a standing ovation when he walked to the mound to start the game and the fans gave him another standing ovation when he left. Ryan walked into the locker room after being replaced by Steve Dreyer and then returned to the field to wave to the crowd. 
On the disabled list 114 days this season because of injuries, Ryan entered the game with a 5-4 record and a 4.21 earned­run average. 
He was making his 13th start of the year and was scheduled to make two more, next Tuesday against Oakland and on Oct. 3 against Kansas City in the last game at Arlington Stadium. 
Ryan had earlier failed to retire a batter in 1971 for the New York Mets against St. Louis and in 1991 for the Rangers against the New York Yankees. 
Sarney this is late Donz! 
8eniors! 
IJIJCB [hQ)[pCB W0ITl QJQ)\J 
free food at &nior Bar 
~ [piTlCBlhCBr:? ITl[p Q)[j) W®rnr:r Cb~CiffilGJfflWH 
Toni8ht be8innin8 at 5:30 
Love, Baker, Jules, E, Beth, Nora & Liza Lou! 

AP File photo 
Nolan Ryan, shown here after his record seventh no-hitter in 1991, may have had his final season cut short with an elbow injury. 
Notable among Ryan's 53 major league records are seven no-hitters and 5,7i4 strikeouts. He won 21 games in 1973 and 22 in 1974. He set a major league record with 383 strike­outs in 1973 and had 367 in 1974, when he also posted three of his four 19-strikeout performances. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
But he cracked two bones in his back in a scrimmage last July with the Pittsburgh Steelers and missed four weeks of practice. And Johnson, who started 13 weeks last season as a replacement for injured Darrell Green and other play­ers, got the nod. 
"A.J. played very well in the preseason. Right now he's hav­ing a rough time, as a lot of cornerbacks often do," said de­fensive coordinator Emmitt Thomas. "He's still going to see lots of action." 
THE SAMPlES'  Flower Delivery 7 Days P@'SY -tl Pptth Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square (219) 277-1291 51400 31 North 1-800-328-0206South Bend, IN 46637 1st Floor LaFortune  
IN CONCERT  now open  
September 24, 7993  every  
Stepan Center Bpm Students $8  Thursday, Friday, and Saturday  
General $15  
 
Tickets  
available at the  
Info. Desk at  
LaFortune STUDENT UNION BOARD  


page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 23, 1993 
Olympian Stulce tests positive for second time 
NEW YORK 
Olympic shot put gold medal­ist Mike Stulce, who faces a lifetime ban from track and field after testing positive for anabolic steroids at the World Championships, will appeal for reinstatement to his national and international governing bodies. 
Stulce, banned for two years in 1990 after testing positive for steroids. tested positive in August at Stuttgart, Germany, for Mestanolone, a metabolite of substances related pharma­cologically to anabolic steroids, and for the anabolic steroid testosterone. 
He denied having taken either substance. 
'"'Mestanolone is a drug I have never even heard of," Stulce said Wednesday. "I didn't take Mestanolone and I certainly didn't take testos­terone." 
Stulce said he checked with several medical experts about Mestanolone and they said they had no reference for it in the United States. 
"I don't feel guilty," Stulce said. "I know I'm innocent but the problem is, my family and friends have to suffer. I'm going to fight this the whole way." 
Stulce's first avenue o appeal is USA Track & Field, the national governing body. USAT&F then takes its findings to the International Amateur 
thletic Federation. 

"USA Track & Field has been very supportive," Stulce said, "but the IMF will be very dif­ficult to tackle. Like in the Butch Reynolds case, they 
on't take any excuses. They don't want anyone to question their system. 
"I understand that, because they want to keep the sport clean. But with them, you're guilty until you're proven inno­cent, not like in the United States. You have to prove your­self innocent. I have to prove to the IAAF that 1 wasn't taking anything.'' 
He said be had no explana­tion for the positive test. 
''I'm reaching for theories trying to explain this," .Stulce said. 
Wayne Souza, Stulce's finan­cial adviser. said, "We will request a DNA test to make 
e the urine is his urine." 
'There are some big gaps in e chain of custody going to the lab," Souza said. ••somebody, who we can't tdeOiit,p, saw his specimen sit· ing tbere for a day and a 
all." . 

Souza, who said be· would 
with members ot' Stulce' 

dical team -one team 
om the United States, the 
tber from Canada -nex week. said one member ottbe 
am was stunned that Stulce could have tested positive for Mestanolone. 
fRifND~ OON'l lH 
fRifND~ DRIVf DRUNK 
Giants keep NL west race tight with shutout of Houston 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON 
Bill Swift allowed four hits over eight innings for his 19th victory as the Giants closed within 2 1/2 games of Atlanta in the NL West with their fifth win in six games. 
Swift (19-8) retired 17 of the first 20 batters and held Houston hitless until Steve Finley's infield single with one out in the fourth. Rod Beck pitched the ninth for his 42nd save and allowed one hit. 
Pete Harnisch (15-9) pitched eight innings, allowing seven hits. He struck out 10 and walked two. 
San Francisco scored in the seventh after Willie McGee led off with an infield hit that first baseman Chris Dannels mis­handled. He advanced on a sac­rifice and scored when Kirt Manwaring doubled, the only extra-base hit of the game. 
Expos 6, Braves 1 
Jeff Passero struck out a career-high 11 as the Expos rebounded from the 18-5 crushing the night before against Steve Avery (16-6). 
Rookies Randell White and Wil Cordero each drove in two 

~0;u}JM~ 
P'ANO CONCERT 'THE SUMMER SHOW 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 + 7:30PM 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
$16, $11 non-Saint Mary's students, and $10 Saint Mary'sstudentsatSaintMary's College Box Office. Charge By Phone 219-284-4626. 
Lookfor George's latest album, SUMMER, at your favorite music store. 
Please join us in support of the Cenlerfor the Homeless by bringing a donation of canned food to the concert. 

· ~ A DANCING CAT PRODUCTION .• · 
runs for Montreal and Passero (12-4). who started his first game in the majors on July 10 after 161 relief appearances, allowed four hits over eight innings. 
The Expos stole four bases and those led to four runs, two in the first as Marquis Grissom led off with a single, moved up on a grounder and stole third. White blooped a single over the drawn-in infield for one run and Cordero beat a double-play relay for the second. White opened the third with his sec­ond homer and one out later Cordero's double drove in Sean Berry, who had singled. 
Phillies 2, Marlins 1 
Dave Hollins' one-out single with the bases loaded in the 12th inning reduced the Phillies' magic number for clinching the NL East to six. 
The Phillies, who last won the division in 1983, maintained their 5 1/2-game lead over sec­ond-place Montreal, which beat Atlanta 6-1 Wednesday night. 
Reliever Roger Mason (5-11) pitched 1 1-3 innings to earn the victory while Bryan Harvey (1-5) took the loss. Harvey walked lncaviglia, then left with a groin pull. 
White Sox extend lead in AL west 
Associated Press 

ANAHEIM 
Wilson Alvarez pitched a five­hitter over eight innings and extended his scoreless streak to a career-high 24 innings and Robin Ventura drove in the only run with a sacrifice fly as the AL West-leading Chicago White Sox defeated California 1-0 Wednesday night. 
Chicago improved its AL West lead to 5 1/2 games over Texas, a 7-4 loser to Seattle, and reduced its magic number to six for clinching the division. 
Alvarez outdueled fellow left­bander Chuck Finley {15-13). who gave up four hits, had five strikeouts and four walks in pitching his 12th complete game of the season. 
Chicago's run came in the fourth inning with one out. Ellis Burks singled to shortstop and moved to third on Bo Jackson's double up the left-field line. Ellis scored on Ventura's sacri­fice fly deep to right field. 
Red Sox 7, Blue Jays 5 10 innings 
Rob Deer hit a two-run homer in the 1Oth inning as the 
t\11 Me~jur~ Welcome Fcalurin8 XYZ Affair No Alcohol or Power Tools. Please 
Boston Red Sox ended Toronto's nine-game winning streak with a 7-5 victory over the Blue Jays on Wednesday night. 
Mo Vaughn reached on first baseman John Olerud's error before Deer hit loser Mike Timlin's (4-2) 1-2 pitch for his 19th homer of the season. 
Ken Ryan (6-2), who gave up a game-tying double to Roberto Alomar in the ninth, got the win. 
Twins 5, Yankees 2 
Pedro Munoz hit a three-run homer during Minnesota's four­run second inning and the Twins beat the fading New York Yankees 5-2. 
Munoz, who homered twice and drove in five runs in Tuesday night's 5-4 victory, homered off Scott Kamieniecki (9-7). 
Kevin Tap ani (1 0-15) won for the eighth time in 11 career decisions against the Yankees, who had won four straight at home against Minnesota before losing Tuesday night. 

The class mass and cookout will be this Sunday, September 23. Mass will begin at 4:30 at the Grotto, followed by a B-B-Q in front of Stonehenge with music by XYZ Affair 
(In case of rain, mass will be in Sacred Heart Crypt. 8-B-Q will be postponed.) 

Thursday, September 23, 1993 
an excellent reputation, NotreDome Dame draws players like 
The Observer • SPORTS 
"I wanted to go on and become a professional athlete and I felt that the University of Notre Dame would give me an opportunity to compete against the best talent in the country and that's definitely a reason why," said Theisman. '~I tell kids all the time, 'You can always go to any other school, but you can't always go to Notre Dame and the invitation to be able to attend the University of Notre Dame as a student-athlete is granted to very few people.' I realize that in later years, but to me it is still the finest academic and athletic school in the world without question." 
The younger athletes have a sense of this as they prepare for their own Notre Dame careers. Dansby visited several schools in the South, but found each to be undesirable in some respect such as fewer facilities, too much partying or violence near campus. During Dansby's recruiting visit to Notre Dame, Irv Smith, the starting tight end for the Irish in 1992, gave Dansby an inside glance at Irish football. 
;~~-~~ii 

"He was just telling me about the school itself and talking about the All-Star games he had been through and how the 
to offer. The incoming players team," said Farmer. 
people were asking him, 
don't really mind competing Krug sees the wealth of talent 'What's it like at Notre Dame?' 
against others with equal skill as more of a personal chal­
It's just something because 
from playing time at their posi­lenge.
you're never asked 'How's it 
tions. Farmer figures that he
like at Georgia?' or "How's it will be competing against "When you go to the Divisionlike at USC?' You just tell them Michigan, Florida State and the I level, there is always going toand it's like a special thing. You other teams on the schedule, be that talent. Not only thishave to be a special person to rather than him soon to be year with me and (Ron) Powluscome to Notre Dame. It just felt teammates. The running back coming in, but next year I amlike that is where I fitted in," views that talent as contribut­sure they are going to get thesaid Dansby. 
ing to a team. number one quarterback in the With so many special people 
country too. At differentlike Dansby attending Notre 
"It doesn't bother me that schools, I was told I could comeDame on football scholarships, there might be someone coming in and play, but I wasn't look­there is always a wealth of tal­in who has more talent or equal ing for that easy fix. I'm looking ent at each position. Having the talent. It's good we have that for somewhere where I cannational character that it does, talent so that we can contribute become a lot better player. 
the Irish football program 
"I haven't reached near my capacity. I feel that if I play against some better players, maybe, I can push myself. I've never gone anywhere where
The Observer 
I've been beaten out or chal­lenged to the point where I was
Are you a freshman, sophomore, or junior 
beaten. I've always been better interested in sales? 
than the next person. I'd like to challenge myself and see if that ever does happen," said Krug. 
(It is a paid position!) 
The talent pool that coaches drool over and the national
Work your own hours and at your own pace ... 
exposure have created a unique situation for Notre Dame foot­Applicant should be highly motivated and flexible. 
ball players. The incoming freshman won't realize it for a few years, but the players who
Anyone interested please contact Anne Heroman, 
have continued in their football 
Advertising Manager, at the Observer 631-6900 
careers know why Notre Dame was the best school for them. 
The Observer/Jake Peters lrv Smith, now in the NFL, played a major role in the recruitment of freshman linebacker Melvin Dansby. 
attracts the best each state has and make ourselves better as a 
begin on October 3 through October 10. Each team must have a minimum of two Juniors and the $2 entrance fee will go towards prizes. A team captain can sign­up in Room 213 of LaFortune from 3:00­5:00 until Tuesday, September 28. 
continued from page 16 
young Krug, Notre Dame was the only college that existed, a prestigious university beyond the borders of California and the tradition-laden alma mater of Joe Montana. 
Montana, the Parade All­American quarterback from Monongahela, Pennsylvania, was interested in Alabama, Michigan State and Georgia, but only as back-ups to his first choice, Notre Dame. Even a rainy recruiting visit couldn't tum Montana away from the school which was a part of life in his area. 
"At the time I was growing 
up, there were a lot of people 
from western Pennsylvania who 
had gone there. You see it if not 
every Saturday, every Sunday 
in the reruns and they were 
having a lot of success at the 
time," said Montana. 
But not everyone is prepped 
for Notre Dame as a youngster. 
From a Protestant family which 
left the decision to hiq1, Joe 
Theisman like others came to 
the school for other reasons. As 
an educational institution with Theisman, Robert Farmer of Bolingbrook, Illinois and Montana with the prospect of such a respected education. Farmer, a Parade All-American and one of the top players in the Midwest, was also looking at Illinois and Northwestern, two excellent schools in their own right, but chose Notre Dame because of its academics. 
"I knew that I would come here and I would graduate in four years with a degree," said Farmer. "They do look out for you here. You'll graduate." 
Montana had heard much 
about Notre Dame as an acade­
mic institution as well. 
"I didn't think that there was 
a better place I could go even if 
I didn't move on to the NFL. I 
would have a real good acade­
mic background to work with," 
said Montana. 
Although the historical repu­
tation and the educational rep­
utation appeal to high school 
gridiron standouts, it is the cal­
iber of football and the caliber 
of football player there which is 
the real attraction. Former 
Irish quarterback Theisman is 
frank about his aspirations and 
Notre Dame. 

The NEW Six Foot Combo Special From SUBWAY Is A Deliciously Affordable Change Of Taste For Your Next Group Function! 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
Great for Tailgate and After-Game Parties! 
For more infonnation, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
Open 8 a.m. on home game days! 

*All Turkey Based 

-------~-----------~~----­
page 14 

Saint Mary's soccer looks forward to home opener 

By CHERYL GILLilAND Sports Writer 

Today the Saint Mary's soccer team, after a series of long road trips, is enthusiastically awaiting their home opener against Wheaton College. 
Wheaton, 5-2, is ranked in the mid­
western  top  
10.  
"They  are  

m u c h 


improved ..t11M 
from last Tom VanMeter year," said Coach Tom Van Meter. "After our loss to Heidleburg, this will be our opportunity to get back on track." 
The Belles, 2-2, are very excited for their home opener today at 4 p.m. They've trav­eled over 1 ,000 miles for their games this past week and are looking forward to having the home field advantage. 
"We're all up for our first home game," commented senior tri-captain Molly O'Connell. "We're very confi­dent about the game after beat-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
ing Wheaton last year." 

"The team is very enthusias­tic and ready to go," said senior Katie Daniel. "Everyone has been contributing well, and we hope to come out strong today." 
After Thursday's disappoint­ing loss to Heidleburg, the Belles are looking to capitalize on more opportunities in today's game. 
"A big key will be to convert our opportunities, which we didn't do against Heidleburg," said Van Meter. 
O'Connell added, "Our offense is looking to play quick­er. We just need to play well, play together, and win." 
"I feel that all around the team is ready," noted Daniel. "We have a tough schedule this season, but I think we're doing quite well, and we're very opti­mistic." 
"We're trying to mold our defense and offense together," commented senior Jenny Kaplan. "It'll be a tough game, and we need to work together as a team." 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Belles 
continued from page 16 

In order for this to happen, Schroeder-Biek recognized two key factors, the first of which is togetherness. 
"We are going to have to pull together and play as a team," she said. 
Lawrence pointed out that this factor contributed to Saturday's loss, noting a defi­nite lack of communication amongst the team. 
The Belles will also need strong serve reception to chal­lenge the Hornets_ This has been a major focus of the last several practices. 
Although Kalamazoo is a strong team, they also have weaknesses which the Belles will capitalize on. 
"Kalamazoo is a good, spirit­ed team," she said. "But they have some young, inexperi­enced players in the middle. We need to take full advantage of that and establish our mid­dle attack early." 
After tonight's contest, the Belles will take to the road one more time when they travel to Holland, Michigan next week to take on Hope College before beginning a long run of home matches. 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Sophomore Ann Lawrence hopes to help Saint Mary's pick up their intensity this week against Olivet and Kalamazoo. 
• 
Anyone Interested in playing field hockey should meet at Loftus at 9 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday. If you have any questions, call Christy at X2966 or Bonnie at 273-6591. No experience needed. 

• 
SKI CLUB-It's time to start thinkin' snow! There will be an informational meeting on Thursday, Sept. 23 at 8:00p.m. in Rm 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. All those who may be interested in the trip to Breckinridge, CO over Christimas vacation, or in trying out for the ski team should attend. 

• 
Anyone Interested in coaching youth hockey for the ND youth hockey league call Debbie at 277­7519. 

• 
Any women interested in playing lacrosse with the Saint Mary's/NO women's lacrosse club, please call Emily Hage at X2856 or Michelle McQuillan at X2894 by Sept. 24. Beginners are welcome. 

• 
Notre Dame Sports Information is looking for volunteer help for the 1993-94 academic. year. Their office handles statistics, press releases and media. guides for all Irish varsity sports. For more information, call Rose at 631-7516. NO Rowing Club is having a mandatory meeting for all varsity and novice members on Thursday, September 23 at 7:30 in 123 Nieuwland. Varsity members please bring your checkbooks. 


"'The Blues Brothers' is a Scream... 

Onl' pf tfw ;dl-tirnl' gn·at l'llnwdil'.., .. _;t tht-Put \\ innl'r:' 
( 'l'IH" '''~l'l. l'hh .l).!tl 'lrrhurlf.· 
"Don't miss the 'Blues' hrother... 
,, mir.h. k ,,t ''HJJhl. ,\1. tillll ,rnJ hi~h ... ririt' \nu ":.tnlhl( .d1t'r~..l tn n1i''· .-\n ,.,,r.torJin.tn nH\\ j,·:· Ar~.lll·r \\ lll .. fl·n. ~l''' ),,rh jlp,f 

This Week in Notre Dame Sports Golden Dome Weekend 
Friday 9/24 Women's Soccer vs. NC State 5:00pm Alumni Field Women's Volleyball vs. Santa Clara 
7:30 
pm JACC Arena Men's Soccer vs. Indiana 

7:30 
pm Alumni Field Saturday 9/25 



fF= · 

Women's Volleyball vs. SW Missouri 
1 1 :00 am  JACC Arena  .@..  
and again vs. Nebraska  ~$\_•  t:1fB  
7:30 pm  JACC Arena  •.  ~  - 

Sunday 9/26 ~ 
Women's Soccer vs. Southern Methodist 
2:30 pm Alumni Field 
ND/SMC PRE--LAw SociETY 
Moe~ lSAlf 
OpEN TO EVERYONE 
8:00A.M. iN CusHiNq AudiTORiuM CosT: $5.00 
TODAY 
Thursday, September 23, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
W~IT.' OONT t\1\ ME.' ll-\~RE'S SDt-\Ell-\IN.G 01--\ '10\JR Bf>.CK . 1 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Most sugary 33 Fugard's "A
1 Strikes violently Lesson From 5 Vivacity " 
9 Heavenly 
WHY WOULD HE Do 11-IAT7 H-E HAS 11-IRE£ DATES ntiS W££K£ND. 
rt-1\ SERIOIJS.' ITS t>.. NDTE! '10\JR !'110M MUSI\'E I'INNI:.D \T ON iOVR <;\-1\RT. 
34 Certain 

master
hunter 
medieval tales 

51 Stinging plants 
14"--Good 
35 Arab V.I.P. 

Men," Rob 55 Officer on a ship 
36 The Swedish 

Reiner film 
58 Overhang
Nightingale

t5 Wild talk 
59 Stubborn as
37 German

16Gymnast 
magician­

Comaneci 
astrologer 60 Cork's locale 
17 Medic or legal 
38 Song: Comb. 61 Hwys. 
45 Composer Weill 46 "Trinity" author 47 N.F.L. scores 50 Estonian chess 
starter 
form 18 Time on a ship 
39 Busyas-­20 Soprano parts 
40 Italian princely 22 Stat for Gooden family 23 D.S.T. preceder 41 Antonio's or follower 
product, for 24 This won't wait short 25 Bing's rival 42 Noncontinuous 27Yearns 44 Tactics 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

62 Rodeo contestant 63 Puts in reserve 64 Costner role 
DOWN 
1 Engrossed 2 On the horizon 3 Like a pittance 4 Order on a ship 5 Pullulates 6 Muster 7 Verb suffix a Else 9 Where D.H.'s 
hope to be 10 Actress­Dawn Chong t 1 Useless 12 Medium for Monet 
19 Most veracious 21 Reclines 26 Distance on a 
ship 
HANK CLAIMS ALL Tl-\os£ YEARS OF RE.JK110N HAVE LE:FT HIM UNPRcf¥\RED FoR 
SOC/ilL INTEl< AC:noN. HE: 
BLAMES Rt.JEC.TioN-MAN. 
IT s~'fS, "SOI'II~&lD'{ 
RUN Tl-\15 'BD'{ GIJER 'f-1 III-\ A. \'i<IJCK . " 
I 
\1M­

~~ 


JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WAITERSON 

27 Excuse 28 Pine-forest finds 29 Recipe direction 30 Type of board 
or cloth 31 Marner of fiction 32 Walked along 33 "When I was 
"· Gilbert 34 "The--Saw Paris," 1940 song 

37 Marked off for plowing, in Peebles 
41 Buttonhole 43 Sleigh part 44 Grooms carefully 46 Free 47 Autocrat 
OF INTEREST 
48 Bruce's spouse 49 Missile type 52 Advanced 53"-Diary": 
Twain 54 Mtg. 56 Rah, in Madrid 57 Lamp type 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

----~----­
SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, September 23, 1993 
Dome's mystique influences Notre Dame recruits I Saint Mary's volleyball 
By JENNY MARTEN players find Notre Dame so attractive is Senior Sports Wrirer 
because of an enthusiastic following who enlarge it in the eyes of these play-
With some inexplicable mystical ers. power, the Golden Dome atop the Raghib "Rocket" Ismail got his first Administration Building at the introduction to the school from a ninth­University of Notre Dame can make grade friend's father who would tell people forget the bitter cold of South them stories about the Notre Dame Bend in January and the unrelenting players of the time. This father used to heat in August. Like an old friend, it wake up the pair after a sleepover with brings a smile to one's face when seen the marching band 's version of the after a long separation. And for some Notre Dame fight song at full volume. crazy reason, it attracts football play­The overwhelming influx of information ers. Not just any football players, the about Notre Dame interested Ismail and best in the country. he admits that it become the only school 
Fresh out of high school, they come he really thought about. from Pennsylvania, Texas, Alabama "When I found out about Notre Dame
The Observer/Tang Tack 

.. 
and California with a suitcase full of Freshman running back Robert Farmer my freshman year in high school and accolades and Schwarzenegger-sized chose Notre Dame over many other realized that I had a chance to go to dreams for the future. When they first schools which recruited him. Notre Dame, I just centered my goals arrive, these players don't have con­and my focuses around that. When the
away from the likes of Tennessee, 
crete reasons for choosing Notre Dame, opportunity was there. it wasn't really
Louisiana State, Clemson, Alabama and 
with its overly demanding academic going to be a question. It wasn't really
Auburn by that Golden Dome. 
curriculum and other sorted imperfec­hard. You didn't have to sell me," said
"The first thing I saw (on campus)
tions, just feelings and impressions. Ismail who considered Syracuse and
was the Golden Dome. It was just spook
Some claim it was the academic stan­Penn State as back-up schools. "By the
city at first, but then it seemed like you
dards while others claim it was the time Joe Paterno came to visit, he didn't 
got this different feeling. It was like an 
challenge, but after their time at Notre have a chance. " 
eerie feeling that goes on in you. After 
Dame is done, the reasons become One of the freshman, Tom Krug of Los
meeting the people, talking to the peo­
clear. Gatos, California, has been exposed to
ple and seeing the campus, it's like win­
Melvin Dansby, a USA Today All­Notre Dame and the Notre Dame mys­
tertime and it's still beautiful," recalled 
American from Birmingham, Alabama, tique for a long time. The nationally­
Dansby.

is one of the 22 scholarship freshmen ranked quarterback even did his first
Many would agree that the campus is 
on the 1993 Irish football team. book report on Knute Rockne. For the
beautiful especially those players who 
Although he professes extreme distaste 
have been interested in Notre Dame for 
for snow, the linebacker was lured see DOME I page 13
a long time. Another reason why young 
prepares for Kalamazoo By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Saint Mary's S ons Ediror  
The Saint Mary's volleyball team is look­ing to improve on last weekend's slow per­formance as they head to Kalamazoo to take on Olivet College and host Kalamazoo College. -The Belles easily defeated Olivet last year, 15-11, 15-2. Belles' coach Julie Schroeder-Biek feels that a repeat of last year's victory should be easy. because Olivet does not have a real strong ball club. Despite this confidence, she realizes that a win is not guaranteed. "We can't get over confident," she said. "We will have to maintain our intensity and concentration." Kalamazoo will provide a much greater challenge for the Belles, who were defeated by the Hornets 10-15,11-15, 7-15last year. . Sophomore Ann Lawrence feels that despite the team's slow performance on Saturday, everyone will be up for tonight's contest. "I think that everyone will come back ready to go, because everybody wants to beat Kalamazoo," she said after Saturday's game. "We definitely have the talent and ability to do it."  
see BELLES I page 14  

Ex-Irish stars Brooks and Carter will start for Redskins 
By MATT YANCEY 34-31 loss to the Eagles last although Coach Richie Petitbon week by week, Brooks' has Associared Press Sunday. hasn't made the official an­been on the rise. With his per­And Reggie Brooks is moving nouncement yet on Carter. formance against the Eagles, he ASHBURN. Va. ahead of Brian Mitchell as The Redskins drafted the two replaced Mitchell in all the sta­
In what could be a walking Washington's premiere running out of Notre Dame last spring tistics -most carries, most advertisement for Notre Dame, back. The move is based on his with hopes of adding quickness yards, longest run and, at 6 the Washington Redskins are 7 yards-per-carry average and and speed to an aging lineup. yards per carry now, best aver­moving their top two draft picks last week's 85-yard touchdown But Mitchell is more of a age. into the starting lineup. -the second longest scoring slasher, suitable for pounding "Things kind of add up and 
Hookie Tom Carter was told run from scrimmage in team the line when three or four pretty soon you say, 'Maybe we this week he will replace A.J. history. yards are needed. He is not ex­should give this guy a shot,"' Johnson at left cornerback. Both have been told they will pected to turn a broken tackle said offensive coordinator Rod Philadelphia's Calvin Williams start Oct. 4 in a Monday night into an 85-yard touchdown a Ia Dowhower. "You can't deny to beat Johnson for two touch­game at Miami, after the Brooks. While Mitchell's aver­certain things." down passes in the Redskins' Redskins' first bye weekend, age yardage has been falling For Brooks, the fast start is 
not the same he experienced at Notre Dame, where he almost quit after his sophomore year after playing in the shadow of his brother, Tony, now on the Eagles' physically unable to perform list. and Ricky Watters, now with the 49ers. 
"I got to the point where I was ready to pack it in and leave," Brooks said Wednesday. "I could have gone to 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Oklahoma State and been the Tom Carter joins fellow Domer featured back for four years Reggie Brooks in the Redskins' and maybe even had a chance starting lineup. to win the Heisman (Trophy). 
"It's an unusual combina­"But I prayed about it and it 
tion," Breaux said. "A lot of became a test of character, 
fast guys aren't quick. lie's got sticking with a decision you 
tremendously quick feet. He made," he said. ''I'm proud 
can start and stop, be almost at now about how I handled it. In 
a standstill, and all of a sudden retrospect, I made the right 
he sees something to the left or choice. It all worked out." 
right and he just accelerates Backfield coach Don Breaux 
past defenders." said Brooks has shown in only 
Carter was seen as an even­three games he has a combina­
tual replacement for Martin tion of power, speed and quick­
Mayhew after he took the free ness that makes him a break­
agency route to Tampa Bay. away threat but also the dura­bility to run 25 plays a game. 

SMC Soccer Saint Mary's soccer team is looking forward to their home opener after shaky road start. 
see page 14 


Inside SPORTS 
Ryan's Trouble 
Nolan Ryan's last season 
could be cut short by a 
serious elbow injury. 

see page 11 
see IRISH I page II 
SWC Contract The Southwestern 
Conference inked a tele­vision contract with 
5 II U T II W t S T 
S11V'C 
CD N r t II C N t t 
ESPN for men's and women's basketball. see page 11 





