

Monday, October 18, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 36 

Violence erupts at KKK rally 
By MIKE SMITH Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Scattered fights broke out and several people were hurt Saturday when Ku Klux Klan supporters and opponents clashed at a KKK rally at the Indiana Statehouse. 
"We all should have just ig­nored this whole thing," said Adrian Garrett, a black Indi­anapolis resident who said he came to watch because of ad­vance publicity given the Klan rally. 
Those injured included three photographers for The Indi­anapolis Star who were struck by members of the crowd. Fire department medics said seven people in all were treated for injuries, but many people were roughed up in isolated scuffles. 
"White supremacy is my reli­gion," a white man shouted, taunting anti-Klan demonstra­tors. The man, who identified himself as Roy Harrell of Han­cock County, took off his shirt to reveal a swastika tattoo and was beaten shortly afterward by several black men. 
Several shouting matches turned into fist-fights, but some of the assaults appeared to be random acts by Klan opponents against others in the crowd. 
The Klan rally was originally set for a secluded Statehouse courtyard but a federal court
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
challenge, filed by the Civil Lib­

Smiles and s'mores 

erties Union on the group's be­Farley Hall residents gather around the grill to cook s'mores. The half helped move it to the out­cookout was held following their hall picture. side stairway. 
By PATTI CARSON 
News Writer 
Promoting general alcohol awareness while recognizing tragedies brought about by the use of alcohol is the goal of Saint Mary's Alcohol Aware­ness Week, which bega.n yes­terday, according to Tricia Wal­lace, president of the Residence Halls Association (RHA), who is sponsoring the event. 
The start of the week was marked last night by the distri­bution of pink bracelets to stu­dents who pledged not to drink 
• see AA STORY, page 4 
during Alcohol Awareness Week and also by the distribu­tion of black footprints to be signed with the names of peo­pie harmed by alcohol, said Wallace. . 
"I think the pink bracelet is a 


Air Force ROTC sponsors day for hc>meless children 
By EMILY HAGE 
Assistant News Editor 
Children from area homeless shelters were brought to Notre Dame to participate in a day of games as a part of Air Force ROTC's field day for homeless children held at Stepan Center on Saturday. 
Some 65-75 children darted from activities which included pumpkin painting, face paint­ing, basketball, paper plate painting, a moon bounce, and a magic show, according w Brad Mahlum, co-student coordina­tor along with Joe Roos. 
Shelters participating in­cluded the Center for the Homeless, as well as St. Stephen's, St. Hedwig's, and 
the Northeast Neighborhood outreach centers, said Roos. 
Notre Dame's Benjamin Foulois division of the Arnold Air Society, a nation-wide ser­vice organization that sponsors the project, decided to repeat the field day after its success last year when the theme was also children. 
Eleven-year-old Charise, who was helping out with face painting, said that she came to the field day last year also, and added that she came back be­cause "it was fun. I wanted to play basketball, too." 
Donations to make this event possible came from local busi­nesses including Papa John's Pizza, Osco Drug, Sam's Club, Matthys, and McDonald's. 

Despite police, protestors 

persist-in Indianapolis 
I·· 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Editor 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Despite protestors, police sirens and sporadi(} 6utbursts of violence, the KuKlux K.la;n {KKK} sent out their messages to a diverse crowd of 1.000 people at the Statehomfe lt1 downt6wn Indianapolis Satur~ day. Side by side, anti-Klan deii19nstrators a:11d ~ian sup­porters/sympathizers began to congregate a little before noon to observe the rally. 
Thirty"five Kla11 participants from a variety of states gath­ered together to hold their "white power" rally. Klan members, donning .. KKK sym­bols on their clothing or by means of tattoos, took position on the stairs of the statehouse at 1:30 p.m.• nearly thirty min­utes before Thomas Rohb, grand wizard of the Arkansas­based Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, began to speak. 
"I am not here to promote hatted against anyone. I am not here to promote hatred against blacks, against Asians, against Jews. What am I here to d,o is reach the heart of just one white man, just one white woman," said Robb. 
Y(;}t he had no r(;}straints in condemning the homosexual group. "With the help of AIDS.. . I say to you good-bye, for you will not be bete tomorrow," Robb said. 
Robb avoided the typical white supremacist views that have characterized previous rallies performed by him and other Klan leaders. Instead he labeled the Klan as a "white ciVil rights organization" which was fighting for "white power and freedom." 
Robb spoke out against affir­mative action, immigrants. welfare and homosexuals. An angry uproar came from ob­servers as he began to focus on the hindrance blacks continue to create in society. Seemingly intimidated, Robb changed his subject of topic rather sud­denly. 
see KKK I page 4 

The Statehouse is two blocks nothing but a bunch of hooli­from Monument Circle in the gans yelling at each other." center of town, where the Black The Klan and counterdemon­Panther Militia held a counter­strators dueled with loudspeak­demonstration during the rally. ers for about half an hour, 
"I expected to see some type drowning each other out before of organized rally (by the the white supremacists ended KKK)," said Garrett. "Even if it the rally and went into the was for a crazy cause. This is Statehouse. 


Saint Mary's RHA kicks off alcohol awareness week 
good conversational piece," said Emily Bochy, Saint Mary's . freshman pledge. "When people ask me why I'm wearing a pink bracelet, I can tell them how I feel about alcohol abuse and spread my message. I can tell my stories about how it's hurt some close friends of mine." 
Alcohol Awareness Week activities include: 
•Monday: "Day of the Dead." Seventy-two people will "pre­tend to die" in order to gener­ate awareness of those who die due to alcohol each day. 

•Tuesday: 
"Don't follow in their footsteps." Signed black footprints will be constructed into a trail around campus in memory of those people af­fected by alcohol. 

•Wednesday: 
"Mocktails." Non-alcoholic drinks will be served in the dining hall as a midterm study break. Free recipe books will also be hand­ed out. 


•Thursday: Alcohol Aware­ness Week souvenirs will be distributed in the Dining Hall. 
The RHA is only sponsoring an activity per day due to stu­dents preoccupation with midterm studying this week, according to Wallace. In the future, they hope to tie movies and lectures into Alcohol Awareness Week along with daily sponsored events, Wallace said. 


The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Family discussion 

The Mundy family of "Dancing at Lughnasa" discuss their family problems. The play, written by Brian Friel and directed by Reginald Bain, ran from Oct. 13-17 at Washington Hall. 

.....---------~---------~-~-------~-­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Alt-rock's setninal sublitninals 
Upon reading Josh-------­
Ozersky's column (The Observer, Oct. 13) regard­ing '70s rock as being the Public Enemy only alterna­tive or something along those lines, I promptly signed up to write this Inside Column. 
On Wednesday night, I wrote a tasteful column as a response to the cyni­cal one, planning to edit the piece Jesus Jones as many times as possible in 
order to make it unmistakably thought-provok­ing and possibly prompt Mr. Ozersky to a change in opinion about the "new music." 
I did not feel completely confident about using a whole Inside Column to write a rebut­tal to one particular column which appeared five days previous, however ... I mean, some of my colleagues have important things to write about. Why should I waste an entire column on an answer to an opinion about music? After thinking about it a bit more Jesus and Mary Chain, then reading the Ozersky column again followed by my planned response, I began to think differently. 
Regardless of what type of music anyone enjoys most, everyone should have become unhappy after Pretty Hate Machine reading the Ozersky column; in fact, I do not understand how Mr. Ozersky seemed to gleefully rip apart the musical credibility all the "sub-genres" that exist today without becoming depressed. "No good can come of 'new music'"? Do you realize then, Mr. Ozersky, that you are going to be stuck listening to the same sounds for the rest of your life? 
Upon realizing the impact that this would have on the entire campus, I planned to read floods of letters written to The Observer con­cerning the closed-mindedness that it suggest­ed. Sadly enough, De La Soul is Dead I was mistaken. In conversations over the past five days, I have engineered many discussions on the topic and, in most cases, the person with whom I was speaking would just humor me and say things like, "yeah, you must be pretty angry." 
There was one bright spot, however. Steve Sostak's letter (The Observer, Oct. 15), was a comprehensive and tactful answer to the Ozersky column. The reason that I liked it so much revolved around the fact that it was very similar to the one I had written on Wednesday night. Unfortunately, it was the only letter like it to come in. Undaunted, I decided to write my inside Check Your Head column on the same subject, but to toss away my original idea and deal with the situation on campus as a whole. 
Hence, I am attempting to reach anyone who agreed with Ozersky's opinion on the new music or anyone who read it and was Manchester not fuming afterwards. Do you realize what he has said? The purpose of attending a university is to open one's mind to everything and anything, not to bury heads in the dirt when something new comes around. 
Music is alive and thriving today and will continue to grow and improve for as long as I can see in the future. And I hope that when I am a graduate student in the Pop Will Eat Itself Cure For Sanity next decade, I am enjoy­ing my favorite songs from the past as well as the new, new music. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Sarah Doran Dave Hungeling Michad O'Hara Production Sports 
Whitney Sheets Beth Regan 
Kathie Young Viewpoint 
Graphics Mark Krejci 
Brendan Regan Accent Matt Carbone 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday t"Xcc:pt during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer i.!t a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction right~ an: reserved. 
Rob Adams Music Critic 

The Observer • INSIDE 
NATION AT AGLANCE 

_C_h_il_d_s_u_p_p_or_t_c_h_an_g_e_s__ 
1 

wASHINGToN 
On Jan. 1, 1994, a quiet revolution will be won in the way Americans pay child support. On that day, federal law will require virtually all new child-support awards to be withheld from the paychecks of absent parents. It is a momentous change, at least on the face of it. From that day on, Americans can regard Child-support in the same light as taxes and health insurance -hidden payments that don't came out of anyone's wallet because they never make it that far. But like a lot of momentous changes, especially those dreamed up in Washington, this one is nei­ther as simple nor as straightforward as it might seem. To begin with, there won't be any change in some states because they've required withholding of child-support pay­ments for years. Other states will probably miss the federal deadline, which has been lurking in the statute books since the Family Support Act was enacted in 1988. "It's a very fluid situation right now," said Craig Hathaway, a senior policy specialist at the Federal Office of Child Support Enforcement. Translation: States are still scrambling to try to comply with the feder­al rules, and some don't have a prayer of making it on time. "I don't think [it's] going to work," said Irwin Garfinkel, a professor of social work at Columbia University who has written extensively about child support. "I think we're going to have a little problem here," he added. None of this means withholding won't hap­pen. It's already· used to pay child support to welfare recipients, and the new rules ­which expand it to nearly everyone else ­will eventually make it universal. Under the new law, exceptions are basically only made when couples agree on alternative arrangements. Almost everyone agrees that withholding works, ensuring that many women and children (a few men are on the receiving end, but very few) will receive child-support payments without a monthly tug-of-war. Of course, some men may be dismayed to learn that their pay­checks are suddenly lighter because of child-support payments -and that their personal lives are suddenly the business of their bosses. 
Indiana autumn foliage in full bloom 
INDIANAPOLIS 

God must love scenic autumn vistas in Indiana -He made so many of them. Every knob and knoll, gully and twist of the road presents scenes rich in foliage when fall arrives. Roadside stands swell with pumpkins, gourds, bittersweet, Indian corn, festoons of dried florals -a vir­tual Crayola box of colors. It's a sign that another fruitful growing season has come to an end. It's also a sign that nature lovers will soon be heading for Brown County in numbers approaching 15,000 a day, creating traffic jams. But the annual pilgrimage to nature's colorful fall display needn't be a bumper to bumper experience. All over Indiana there are vistas of color equal to Brown County. "We like to start exploring and go to places you've never been before and find places that surprise you," said Phyllis Thomas. She and her husbandwrote "Off the Beaten Path," a menu of Ieeser known spots of glamour and wonder. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 18.
Montlay, Oct. 111 Accu·Weal her® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
•
ILL. 

............-...a....a.. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V~a Assoclo!lled Press 


4,Q,~9.6jQ {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet C1993 Accu·Weather, Inc 
Most popu 1ar sports in America 
PollwasconductedbytheSports Marketing Group in Dallas. Results were basedon 1,479respondentswhosaid they "love or like a lor certain sports, 12 years and older, balanced and weighted toprovidearepresentativesampleof the total U.S. population, according to most recent U.S. Census figures. The questionnaires were returned in November and December 1992. 
mNFL Pro Football (T) -Tie E Ladies Figure Skating E Ladies Gymnastics (T) IIJ Major League Baseball (T) 13 Pairs Figure Skating II!J Mens Figure Skating IFl Pairs Ice Dancing Ill Mens Gymnastics E NBA Pro Basketball II!J NCAA/CFA College Football m High School Football 1m lntemationaVOiympic Basketball IIJ High School Basketball eJ NASCAR/Stock Car Racing 1m Indy Car Racing ll'i.J NCAA/Mens College Basketball mlntemationaVOiympic Volleyball Ill] Platform Diving 
D] Little League Baseball EE Competitive Swimming mSpringboard Diving fB Rodeo (T) fB Thoroughbred Horse Racing (T) fJl Air Show/Airplane Stunts 
fl3 Pro Boxing 

School launches student-run radio station 
FORT WAYNE 

Disc jockey Todd Fink's audience will be expanding soon from a couple of people at parties to anybody tuning in to the county's first student-run radio station. Fink and some of his Homestead High School classmates will launch 91.1 WCYT-FM on Nov. 1, said broadcasting teacher Bob Warner. The 125-watt station needs a mini­mum of seven to nine students to run it daily. At first, WCYT will broadcast from 6:55 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. Warner hopes to extend the hours after the holiday break, when students likely will be more comfortable on the air. About 60,000 homes will be able to pick up the broadcast, Warner said. The format will include mostly adult contemporary music, but also some oldies, country, and Top 40, Warner said. The adult con­temporary format was chosen because most of the listen­ers probably will be adults, except for morning and after­noon drive-times. 
Monday, October 18, 1993 



Most disliked sports in America 
Poll was conducted by the Sports Marketing Group in Dallas. Results were based on 1,479 respondents who said they "hate or dislike a lor certain sports, 12 years and older, balanced and weighted to provide a representative sample of the total U.S. population, according to most recent U.S. Census figures. The questionnaires were returned in November and December 1992. 
..WNF Pro Wrestling (T) -Tie 
E Pro Boxing E LPGA/Ladies Professional Golf 1m PGA/Mens Professional Golf 13 PGA/Mens Senior Golf II!J Olympic/Amateur Boxing IFl Body Building Ill Olympic/Collegiate Wrestling EJ Arm Wrestling (T) E Dog Racing (T) mRoller Derby 1m Tractor Pulls IIJ American Gladiators/Jousting eJ PBNMens Pro Bowlers Tour 1m PKNFull Contact Karate ll'i.J NHRNIHRA Drag Racing mWeightlifting Ill] Ladies Pro Bowlers Tour (T) Ill] NCAA Collegiate Tennis (T) fE ATP/Grand Prix Mens Pro Tennis mNHL Professional Hockey fB Motorcycle/Motorcross Racing f!J Womens Pro Basketball fJl Fencing fl3 Olympic/International Ice Hockey 

Dallas 76 58 New Orleans 81 66 Denver 53 30 New York 66 50 
H L 
Atlanta 73 58 Houston 81 65 Philadelphia 66 51Baltimore 67 51 Los Angeles 74 64 San Francisco 68 52Boston 63 48 Miami 88 76 SeaHie 57 46Chicago 57 44 Milwaukee 54 41 Toronto 58 40Columbus 66 48 Minneapolis 54 35 Washington. D.C. 68 52 




Monday, October 18, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 


Ginsburg off to intensive start on the bench 
By LAURIE ASSBO week by Ginsburg in a sexual­Associated Press harassment case caused one lawyer to abandon his con­WASHINGTON tention that the woman who 
Judging by her energetic had filed suit must prove the questioning from the bench, conduct harmed her perfor­Supreme Court Justice Ruth mance at work, Bader Ginsburg is quickly hit­"She basically pushed him to ting full stride in her new job. concede the case," said George­
Intensive questioning last town University law professor 


CLUB 
October 18, 1993 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 3 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office on the second floor of Lafortune. 
1. 
FEMINIST FORUM: A meeting will be held on the topic"Gender and Advertising" from 7 -8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune, on October 19th. A short documentary entitled "Killing Us Softly" will be shown with a discussion to follow. 

2. 
TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL OF NOTRE DAME: Meets every Tuesday night at 7 p.m. in room 222 of Hayes-Healey. All are welcome. 

3. 
PHYSICAL THERAPY CLUB will host speaker Dave Yugo from 


the Baxter Clinic. Meeting is in Room 123 Nieuwland, October 21st at 7 p.m. 

Susan Deller Ross. 
During her first two weeks of high court arguments, Ginsburg has asked lawyers frequent and probing questions on other issues such as drug forfeitures and civil rights law. 
She also has brought the per­spective of a former women's rights advocate to the conserva­tive court, said some observers who noted that Ginsburg at one point described the "old days" of sexist law professors. 
"She has hit the ground run­ning," said Stuart Gerson, for­mer acting attorney general in the Bush administration. "She has shown a great deal of ener­gy and preparedness. Being on the court is awe-inspiring, but she is not awe-struck." 
New justices often hold back when just arriving on the bench.Justice David Souter waited three weeks to ask his first question in 1990. Now a frequent and incisive question­er. Souter admits finding the job overwhelming at first. 
Ginsburg's performance is being likened to the equally fast start in 1986 by Justice Antonin Scalia, her former federal ap­peals court colleague. 
"It's not just that she's asking lots of questions It's that she's asking outstanding questions that get to the heart of the mat­ter," said Georgetown Uni­versity law professor Susan Low Bloch. 

In the sex-harassment case, the lawyer representing the woman, who filed the lawsuit against a Tennessee company, didn't escape close questioning either. Ginsburg suggested he was making the case more complicated than it should be. 
If a woman is told "you think like a woman" and a male co­worker is not subjected to simi­lar comments, "doesn't that make their job more difficult?" Ginsburg asked. 
"Do you need anything fur­ther than that? The terms and conditions [of a job] aren't equal if one is called names and the other isn't," she said. 
Ginsburg suggested an equal­ly straightforward view during arguments on a civil rights case. pointing out that whatev­er penalties are required, the law has been clear since 1964: "Thou shalt not discriminate." 
In another argument, she said a drug-forfeiture law's basic message also is clear: "That's part of the penalty; you forfeit the home where the drugs were kept" 



LORIDA STATE TICKETS 
jOIN US AT THE TERRACE LOUNGE AT THE SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT for 
lM[(O)JNf]JJ)AY NITCGIHJT ]F(Q)CQ)T~AILIL 
~ ~ 
\-o'-~~et'-'-~ Stop by each week to enter the p1°ll can e 
\: e~v ~ . 1;z~ p at ~e~~~o~.. FLORIDA STATE RAFFLE Only $5~lJr 

Drawzng to be held November 8, 1993 for 2 tickets to the Notre Dame Game'? 
(MusT BE PRESENT To WIN) 

TERRACE LOUNGE 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend, IN 46601 
The H~ammes NOTRIC DAME BOOKSTORE 

ITS NEW; AND ITS AT APEARL OF APRICE!
"On The:!~ Campus" 
phone 631-6316 store hours Mon-Sat: 9a.m.-5p.m. 

~  Our Mix Of iMusic Is Bigger & "" Better Th:m Ever Before!  


Release Date: 10-·19-93 

Stop m and check out a worid ot mus1c on our MUZE! It's a compurer that will search out the hardest to tlnd mu.s1c•.. and now our speciai orders take only a few· days in most cases! You'll amaze your eyes and ears! Do It Today! 

IIAI.a 11~:30, 4:45, 7:30, 10:00 
1111DT (1'111 :45J;30, 7:00, 9:45 
TIE Ga. (1"11)2:45, 5:00,
7:15, 9:30 

-~------------------~-----~--------­
Monday, October 18, 1993

page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
group of anti-Klan demonstra­tors burned a confederate flag


Rally Alcoholic fights a constant battle 
yelling, "Whoot, there it is." continued from page 1 "People started getting real tense towards the close of the By NICOLE McGRATH didn't appreciate the people Brenda relapsed her junior 

"I could tell he was afraid of what might happen," said Indi­anapolis resident Darren Jack­son. "He struck a chord in a lot of people when he started talk­ing about blacks in particular." 
On the contrary, Robb may have felt right at home consid­ering over 150 white suprema­cist groups were drawn to the rally. 
"I drove here today from Kentucky to support my race," said Michael Levins, a skin­head. "The white man is the most discriminated person in today's world and our concerns about our struggles need to be heard." 
Levins also stressed the need for the white race to reproduce with one another as much as possible. "Our blood line is slowly fading. There's all kind of half-breeds running around this country. The white man must regroup and become the superior force once again." 
Seven injured people, includ­ing three Indianapolis Star photographers, were sent to a nearby hospital and another seven were arrested for disor­derly conduct. At one point, a rally," said State Police Sgt. David Morrison. "It went as well as can be expected. It's a shame people in America can't get along." 
The evening before the rally 20 Klansmen and 200 onlook­ers gathered for a cross burn­ing on a farm near Knox in Starke County, Indiana. 
"This just isn't right," said John Phillips, a resident of Carmel, Indiana 
Phillips, who is white, marched with Dr. Martin Luther King in Montgomery. "It's disheartening to know that after all these years, these fools are still around. This shouldn't 
~enbeallowed~happen."
Governor Evan Bayh seemed 
to have these same sentiments as he tried to stop the rally from occurring. Court officials
dismissed Bayh's formal sup­pression calling the rally a "freedom of speech." 
"It's a sad day," said Alan Katchen, regional director of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, which monitors acts of bigotry. "This is not what the Indiana Government Center was built for." 
(<' We're Still Open J:,.,
0 
fi 0~ ~ Daily from 4 p.m. to 3 a.m. ~ llo.oc:
ftee oli, 

THE COMMONS 

'The Traditon Continues" 

News Writer 
"Brenda" is a Saint Mary's graduate and recovering a/co­holic. 
She calls it trying to maintain two different lives. 
"My drinking became a bar­rier between my faith and God," Brenda said. "My life split between the faithful life and the party life because drinking was real attractive." 
She used alcohol to fit in be­cause everyone was drinking-but she wasn't in control of herself. 
Her split life didn't begin until she entered high school. "I closest in my life," she said. "I wanted to put distance between us because my drinking was becoming such a priority." 
That 'priority' got her kicked off her drill team and thrown out of a couple of dances. 
During Brenda's senior year she began attending Alcohol Anonymous meetings. 
"I thought it was a really hon­est group of people but I still didn't believe I was an al­coholic," Brenda said. 
For the next three years, Brenda stayed sober. But she said she had this doubt about -"if she could just drink year at Saint Mary's. 
"I drove to Michigan on a Saturday night and got wasted by myself," she said. 
While Brenda has found sup­port at her AA meetings, that support came a little slower from her family." After my relapse, my mom knew she liked me sober but she really didn't realize how much of a problem it was for me," Brenda said. 
Since the relapse, Brenda said she hasn't thought about drinking as much."It makes you have a lot more gratitude for the little things," said Brenda. 
Brenda's name has been 

r~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~g~a~~~·~·~~~~~~~~~~-~-a-n~~-e•d•t•o~p•r•~•e•c•t•h•M•l•~•e•n•ti~~· 
A PALATABLE SELECTION OF CONTROVERSIAL MUSIC AND MEXICAN FOOD



©[Sl!D 

~-~~ 
"~~ IL..J .~~ ~ 1 3 
~ "'~ ~~ ~~ PRESENTS: 
..,,...\..~~n 
~~ :.,. 
BANDITO'S BURRITOS & CLUB 23 HAVE TEAMED UP TO BRING YOU GREAT FOOD AND GREAT ENTERTAINMENT AT ONE CONVENIENT LOCATION THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 234-40 I '5 Monday, October 18, 1993 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 

U.N. re-evaluates peacekeeping mission in Somalia 
By PAUL ALEXANDER 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU, Somalia 
The worst seemed to be over for Somalia in May, with star­vation virtually ended and Mo­gadishu's streets safer than they had been for nearly fol!r years. 
Today, the United Nations and the United States find themselves looking for a way out of the tangled mess that was supposed to be a blueprint for future UN peacekeeping op­erations. 
June 5, a month and a day after the UN took control of Op­eration Restore Hope from the United States, was the turning point. Twenty-four Pakistani troops were killed in coordi­nated ambushes. 
Since then, the UN has found itself drawn into an urban guerrilla war and a public rela­tions quagmire that have stymied the agency's efforts at nation-building. 

"This blueprint is very com­plex," UN special envoy Adm. Johnathan Howe admitted last week. "It may have to be re­drawn in several ways." 
In May, Pakistani troops took over control of south Mo­gadishu after the departure of most U.S. forces, patrolling the bustling streets in open pickup trucks. 
Today, few military vehicles stray far from UN strongpoints. They are waiting for the last of American tanks and Bradley 
on the 
ND/SMC Ski Club 
trip to 

IB3l1ECDNllliD)(GJE 
LORADO 
Jar:..uary 1-9 
• 
$429 includes lift tickets, condo lodging, transportation 

Space still available, but hurry: ,,..,...."·,,.due Friday 

• 
Contact Dave Zidar at 273­3105 



l.nokin!! for a chance to move in the diploma and your drive to succeed. See your _Marin<: Corp~. Oflic<:r 
fast la;c·• Then check out Marine If you've got what it takes, ~ou Selection Ofhcer when be vtstls your 
Corps Aviation. The training is su-could be at the controls of anythtng campus or caU ht·t~n.
at perb. The challenges ar·~ unt4u.:. from a Cobra to a Harner to the the number hsted 
Yo"' <i<k« '" Oy ;, Y""' wll<g< ho""' <hmg Hymg. <h'MaiJ:iiea . 
The fetf: The Proud. The Marines. Capt Dennis Hollahan will be at the LaFortune Center on Tuesday from 10:00 to 2:00. 
Stop by or call 1-800-945-3088. 

fighting vehicles to arrive, along with the U.S. reinforce­ments that have been trickling in. 
Rocks once were among the biggest threats for foreign troops. Now they face remote­controlled land mines, rocket­propelled grenades, and heavy­caliber machine guns. There are rumors of even heavier weaponry. 
Gen. Mohamed Farrah Aidid had seen his influence steadily erode following the arrival of foreign troops, but he appears to have won the tactical fight for now. One of the country's top warlords, he was blamed for the Pakistani massacre and ensuing attacks on UN troops. 
He is disliked by some of So­malia's other clans, but has built a reputation among his people as a wronged freedom fighter. The $25,000 UN boun­ty on his head seems a thing of the past, and he is trying to force his way back onto the political scene. 
Canadian Prime Minister trailing as elections approach 
ByJEFFREY ULBRICH 
Associated Press 
RED DEER, Alberta 

Prime Minister Kim Campbell was in the middle of a cam­paign harangue against Liberal leader Jean Chretien when a heckler interjected: "Then how come he's leading?" 
With a week to go before the Oct. 25 election, many folks are asking how come indeed. How can a lackluster Liberal di­nosaur with a few new ideas command a 15-point lead over a sitting prime minister. 
The answer has less to do with Kim Campbell's Progres­sive Conservative program or Chretien's unrevolutionary thought than with upstart re­gional protest movements and the legacy of former prime min­ister Brian Mulroney, the most unpopular Canadian leader since polling began. 
Ms. Campbell wrapped up last week an uninspiring tour of western Canada, heartland of the six-year-old Conservative Reform Party, and headed for Quebec to take on the sepa­ratist Bloc Quebecois. 
Both movements are draining vot.P.I'l from f.anarla's main­stream parties, the Progressive Conservatives, the Liberals and even the socialist New Demo­cratic Party. But the Progres­sive Conservatives are being hurt the worst. 
It now looks increasingly like­ly that no party will win a majority in Canada's 295-seat House of Commons, meaning Canada would be governed by a shaky minority government. 
An Angus Reid poll showed the Liberals leading by 37 per­cent among 1,961 Canadians surveyed. Next were the Con­servatives at 22 percent and the Reform Party with 18 per­cent. The Bloc Quebecois is at 12 percent nationally, but has 46 percent in Quebec, the only province in which it is running candidates. 
The poll has a margin of er­ror of plus or minus 2.5 per­cent. 
"She's finished," said Robert Secord, a Conservative sup­porter attending a Campbell rally in Richmond, British Columbia. "I think she's the right leader at the wrong time." 
During an "in your face" speech in Toronto on the way to Quebec, Ms. Campbell ac­knowledged she is trailin 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Saint Mary's ~ports Writers 
Interested in writing sports for the Observer? Enthusiasm the only prerequisite for the job. Meeting for all interested and current writers Monday, Oct. 18, 7 p.m. in Room 303 Haggar. Contact Mary Good or Jennifer Habrych at 631-4540 for more information. 

Attention Juniors!! 
How would you like reservations for your parents 
at the Morris Inn 
for J,unior Parents Weekend? 
Come to· the Junior Class Office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune all this week to enter your name in a lottery for these coveted rooms. 
Winners will be announced November 3rd. 
------~------~------~----~-----------------­







VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Monday, October 18, 1993 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box q; Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAII•IT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor· in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager 
Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Ad Design Managet ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Pa1rick Barth OTS Direcmr ................................ Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of No!re Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either iiutitmion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available m all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lerters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 s 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839W~Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
CHARLES RICE 
Cardinal's visit opportune for student reflection 

"America needs much prayer -lest it lose its soul." This statement by Pope John Paul II to the American bishops in Denver is applicable in a spe­cial way to the pro-life move­ment. Opponents of abortion, euthanasia and other violations of the right to life can become so absorbed in the minutiae of court decisions, legislation and statistics that their activity is practically indistinguishable from that of an ordinary politi­cal pressure group. 
On the contrary, the founda­tion of pro-life activity is what John Paul described to the World Youth Day participants as "the truth of Christ's promise of new life." He exhorted them "to make the Gospel of Life penetrate the fabric of society, transforming people's hearts and the structures of society in order to create a civilization of true justice and love... This is no time to be ashamed of the Gospel. 
It is time to preach it from the rooftops. . . Christ needs la­borers ready to work in his vineyard. May you, the Catholic young people of the world, not fail him. In your hands carry the Cross of Christ. On your lips, the words of Life. In your hearts, the saving grace of the Lord." 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will soon have a unique opportunity to put these matters in perspective. ND/SMC Hight to Life has invited John Cardinal O'Connor, Archbishop of New York, to give an after­noon of recollection to interest­ed students from noon to five on Monday, March 21, 1994, which is in the week before Holy Week. O'Connor has gen­erously accepted. 
Because O'Connor prefers a 

RIGHT OR WRONG? 
parish setting for such pro­grams, it will be held at Corpus Christi Church, in South Bend, off Portage near Cleveland Road. O'Connor and his party will drive from the airport to Corpus Christi and thence directly back to the airport, without visiting the campus. O'Connor is making this trip solely to spend an afternoon of prayer and reflection with stu­dents. No faculty, administra­tors or other non-students will be allowed to attend. ND/SMC Hight to Life will arrange trans­portation for students as neces­sary. 
O'Connor will be accom­panied by two members of the Sisters of Life, Sylvia Jimenez and Sheila Duncan, who are Notre Dame graduates. O'Connor himself founded the Sisters of Life in 1991. 
Through prayer and apostolic works, the Sisters are dedicated to protecting human life and promoting awareness of the sacredness of all human life, "beginning with the infant in the womb and extending to all those vulnerable to the threat of euthanasia." The Sisters emphasize the provision of direct, practical help to moth­ers in crisis pregnancies and to families affected by abortion and euthanasia. The Sisters af­firm that the "basis" of their vocation is prayer and commu­nity life, including especially the Mass, worship before the Blessed Sacrament, the Divine Office and the Rosary. 
The afternoon of reflection on March 21 will include two con­ferences given by O'Connor and a presentation by the Sisters of Life. O'Connor and priests from the area will hear confessions throughout the afternoon. O'Connor and the Sisters of Life will be readily available for questions and discussion. Snacks, soft drinks and coffee will be available, free, through­out the afternoon. The event will conclude with the Sacrifice of the Mass offered by O'Connor. 
This afternoon of recollection presents an unprecedented op­portunity for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. No one but students will be allowed to attend. No faculty. No adminis­trators. Nobody. O'Connor and the Sisters of Life will make this trip from New York solely to be with the students. This reflects the O'Connor's oft-stated con­viction that young people are the hope of the Church and that pro-life activity will succeed only to the extent that it draws its power from prayer, reflec­tion and the sacraments. 
"The culture of death spawned by the world," O'Connor has said, "especially threatens women, the babies, and the sick and the frail elder­ly. . . To be countercultural today is its own form of martyr­dom. But to be countercultural except for the love of Christ is a sheer folly." 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column ap­pears every other Monday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thanks from Senior dad for weekend 
(This letter is from a Saint Mary's dad responding to October 1 article "T-Shirt sends message that students are -Daddy's little girl.") 
Dear Editor: 
I want to express my appreci­ation to the class of '94 for a very enjoyable and inspira­tional weekend for Senior­Dad's weekend. All the dads concurred that our daughters have changed a great deal in three and a half years. We all shared childhood stories at din­ner with our daughters and they shared their goals and aspirations for the future. 
The strong common thread that ran through the events this whole weekend was the mutual love, respect and admi­ration we all shared. The hard­est part of the weekend was the last kiss from our daugh­ters till Thanksgiving. 
On the plane ride home I pulled a certain t-shirt our and read the back. Tears came to my eyes with pride that togeth­er my wife and I have con­tributed to the development of a healthy, caring, intelligent, sensitive person who has great self-esteem and knows what she stands for as a Christian woman in today's world. 
My daughter told me that she plans to go to dental school and then specialize in orthodontics. I think the first day of practice, seven years from now, we will both wear our Saint Mary's "Daddy's little girl" t-shirt. 
Thanks, Saint Mary's for making daddy's little girl into a Saint Mary's woman. 
R.M. DEMKO 
St. Louis 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


THE DEFENSE RESTS 
• Pete Bereich and the Notre Dame defense turn BYU upside down 
Story page 2 

BYU c::omes up thin in mountain air 

By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
PROVO, Utah 
Only the mountains that tower over 
Cougar Stadium provided a more awe­
some spectacle than the Notre Dame 
football team in the first half of 
Saturday's 45-20 win over Brigham 
Young. 
Darkness cloaked the mountains in 
the second half and the Irish also 
seemed to disappear into the night. 
"It was very important that we were successful in the first half because of the way we played in the second half," Irish offensive tackle Aaron Taylor said. '"We were really focused in the first half and I don't know if we lost our focus or 
what, but we were unable to move the ball in the second half." 
A 31-7 halftime bulge kept the Cougars at a safe distance and kept the final score respectably one-sided. The win lifts Notre Dame to 7-0 and the No. 2 spot in the polls after Alabama tied Tennessee. 
"We played very well in the first 30 minutes of the football game to take an early lead and we took control of the football game," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. · 
Notre Dame dominated the first half on both sides of the ball, collecting 282 yards of total offense while holding the Cougars to just 90. 
Irish defensive lineman Brian 
See IRISH/page 2 
The Observer/John Bingham 
Top-Brian Hamilton (left) and Jim Flanigan sack BYU quarterback Tom Young in the sec­ond half. Bottom-Lee Becton scampers for some of his122 yards rushing. 

__.._.___________~------~~----------~-----------~­
page 2 The Observer· FOOTBALL MONDAY Monday, October 18, 1993 
Business as usual for Notre Dame defense 
By JASON KELLY The Cougars managed just 27 yards Sports Writer on the ground in the first half. The passing game was equally inept in the PROVO, Utah first half as Walsh and Young combined 
Add one more component to Notre for only 54 passing yards. 
Dame's defensive attack. And the main reason for Notre Dame's A solid pass rush. success was the fierce pressure on the Lacking for most of the season, the quarterback on almost every pass play. 
Irish defensive line swarmed around That pressure may the the final ele­
Brigham Young's quarterbacks ment needed to make Notre Dame a Saturday, collecting three saeks, hurry­great defensive team. ing five other passes and basically mak­Only halfway through the season, ing the Cougars run for their lives. Notre Dame has become the first Irish 
"One of our goals at the beginning of team to collect two shutouts in one sea­the season was to have a good pass son since the 1977 national cham­rush," Irish defensive lineman Brian pionship team. Hamilton said. "We were a good pass And for 30 minutes of Saturday's rushing team in the Spring, but it fell off thrashing of BYU, it looked like they for some reason in the fall. It finally might get another one. came together tonight and it felt good." "We were pretty much in control of 
It was Hamilton's first quarter sack the game," Irish defensive coordinator that ultimately forced BYU starting Rick Minter said. "But it got a little ugly quarterback John Walsh to leave the at the end." game with an injury. Ugly indeed. 
Walsh's substitute Tom Young-the The Cougars' offense was penalized 
brother of San Francisco 49'ers quarter­nine times for 62 yards in the second back Steve Young-seemed to be in half. but still managed to put together trouble on almost every play, releasing two lengthy scoring drives to make the several passes just before taking a hit game respectable. 
from an Irish defender. But the Irish are not discouraged. That pressure was essential in taking "We're a good defensive team right away BYU's explosive passing attack. now and we could be a great one," 
Maybe more importantly, it also shut Hamilton said. "We're really close to down the running attack, taking away being a great one. We just have to con­virtually all of the Cougars' offensive centrate on doing the little things well." 
into the second half," Irish cornerback standards, but after stifling the Cougarsoptions. They did those little things well in the Bobby Taylor said. "We played well at in the first half, they are very big num­"I thought in the first half we played first half. 
times, but they were able to get some bers to the Irish. 
very well on defense," Irish coach Lou Sustaining those little things is the big yards." "We always find a way to mess it up at Holtz said. "We stopped the run which problem. 
Young completed 12 of 23 passes for the end," Minter said. "We're a good was absolutely critical. One thing you "We controlled them to a point, but 77 yards and Clements hit on 5 of 6 for defensive team and I feel we're gooddon't want to do is let BYU run the foot­they got a good drive going at the end of 50 yards in the game's final minutes. fundamentally, but we're not where we ball." the first half and it kind of carried over Those are not big numbers by BYU's need to be yet. But we're close." 


SEASON CUMULATIVE AVERAGE: 
QUARTERBACKS McDougal hit on some big plays and finished 1 0-16 with no interceptions 
RUNNING BACKS Zellars and Becton ignited the offense early on; the others filled in to maintain the pace 
RECEIVERS Mike Miller played solid and the unit played solid 
0-LINE Gave up only one sack and Irish ran at will 
D-LINE Best sack output of season but second half performance prevents straight A 
LINEBACKERS Having Bereich back helped but Irish still gave up too many short passes 
SECONDARY Gave up too much yardage but overall a strong performance 
SPECIAL TEAMS Pendergast had longest FG of his career but coverage units were sub-par 
COACHING Wasn't too difficult against a weak team and penalties brought grade down 
FINAL SCORE Four weeks till FSU for all the marbles 
3.2741 

~ 




I.!J 
1!8 

Irish 
from page 1 
Hamilton set the tone on the game's first series with a sack of Cougar quarterback John Walsh. 
Walsh eventually had to leave the game with a knee injury he sustained on that play. 
"He's a great quarterback, so it was good to have him out of there," Hamilton said. "But No. 14 came in and did a great job." 
No. 14 was Tom Young, the brother of San Francisco 49'ers quarterback Steve Young. 
The record crowd of 66,247 erupt­ed when Young came onto the field for his first series late in the first quarter. 
But there would be no comeback. 
Taylor and the rest of the Irish offensive line simply controlled the line of scrimmage in the first half, abusing BYU's weak rushing defense. 
Notre Dame scored on five of its first six possessions to open a 31-0 lead. It's longest drive in that stretch took 4:16. 
Ray Zellars began the barrage with the longest run of his career, a 29­yard stroll along the sideline for Notre Dame's first score. 
After Kevin Pendergast's career­high 44-yard field goal on the next Irish possession, Lee Becton scored from seven yards out to give the Irish a 17-0 lead at the end of the first quarter. 
Becton finished the first half with 87 of his 122 rushing yards, his sec­ond consecutive 100-yard game. 
Young led BYU's first sustained drive of the game at the beginning of the second quarter. 
But the 16-play drive ended with a failed 51-yard field goal attempt and Notre Dame continued to roll. 
After the run had been so suc­cessful on the previous three drives, McDougal went to the .air, missing Lake Dawson deep and Zellars on a screen pass. 
But on third down, McDougal found Mike Miller over the middle for a 66­yard scoring strike to put the Irish up 24-0. 
Freshmen Randy Kinder and Marc Edwards helped set up the final Irish score of the half, with big runs that pushed the Irish deep into Cougar territory. 
Edwards capped the drive with a five-yard scoring run to put the Irish up 31-0. 
But then the momentum seemed to shift. 
After Steve Christensen returned the kickoff 63 yards to the Notre Dame 37 -yard line, Young took con­trol, leading the Cougars to the end­zone in the final seconds of the first half. 
That brought the BYU crowd back into the game in the second half, making things difficult for the Irish offense. 
'This is the loudest and most loyal crowd I have witnessed in my entire coaching profession," Holtz said. "There were times when we tried to 

Player of the Game 

MIKE MILLER 
5'7" 157 lbs. Junior Flanker • A tough choice between Lee Becton and Miller, but the latter gets the nod. Miller caught three passes for 117 yards and two touchdowns, one apiece from Paul Failla and Kevin McDougal. 
check off, but we just couldn't hear." 
Penalties plagued both teams in the sloppy second half, which saw the Irish outscore the Cougars just 14-13. 
"We were shooting ourselves in the foot. We'd have a 30 yard gain, but it would be called back because somebody was holding," Taylor said, downplaying BYU's halftime adjust­ments. "They did some new things, but it was stuff we had seen before and should have been able to pick up." 
Edwards kept Notre Dame comfort­ably in front with a one-yard scoring run midway through the third quar­ter, but BYU wouldn't die. 
Young capped a 76-yard drive with a three-yard run. 
After Paul Failla hit Miller with a 35-yard touchdown pass, BYU's third stringer Steve Clements drove the Cougars 53 yards in six plays to cap the scoring. 
Despite the sloppy second half, Notre Dame emerges unscathed and set for next week's clash with USC. 
Trojan coaeh John Hobinson is 6-1 in his career against the Irish and he would like nothing more than to knock the Irish from their pedestal. 
"[Robinson I is 6-1 agianst Notre Dame?" Irish linebacker Pete Bereich asked. "Well, I guess as long as he doesn't play we'II be all right." 
--~-----~-------------------,
--~--------~--­
Monday, October 18, 1993 
-
Top 1ren Tumble sets the stage for classic matchup 
PROVO, Utah .-----------, 

abama had nly the est inter-of college foot­in mind when it part in 
Top Ten 
The defending champions, decid-J.tllSON KELLY ing it was time to Associate Sporn Editor give someone else a L-----------' shot at college football's top prize, gra­ciously tied Tennessee to open the No. 2 spot to a more deserving team. 

Or at least a more unblemished team. 
No, not Ohio State. 
Notre Dame is now 7-0 and ranked 

2, its best start since 1989 and its 
any unforeseen catastrophes, stage is set for Notre Dame's biggest game in five years and one of the 
biggest in its history. November 13 against No. 1 Florida State. It's the game you circled in red on your schedule in August. 
It's the game that's worth so much that rumors are circulating about NBC selling the rights to another network. 
And now that it's only four weeks away, it's the game on everyone's mind. Everyone, that is, except the partici­pants. 
"With someone like Coach Holtz run­ning the show, we'll never get caught looking ahead," Irish linebacker Pete Bereich said. 
"We're always in touch with our long term goals, but we know that we have to perform in the short term to make the Florida State game as important as pos­sible." 
A loss to USC or Navy would make the Florida State game about as important as caffeine is to a Mormon. 
Notre Dame proved in the second half of Saturday's game that it is capable of losing not only to Florida State, but probably to Florida A&M also. 
In the flrst half the Irish looked almost unstoppable, running at will against a hapless BYU team. 
It was an almost identical scenario for Notre Dame a week ago against a team much worse than BYU. Notre Dame played one sloppy half and one brilliant half. 
Such is the fate of a team so full of frrst-year-players. 
To be as inconsistent as Notre Dame and still be undefeated more than halfway through the season is a credit to the character of the team. 
A lesser team would have lost to Michigan or maybe even to Purdue. That is why the next two weeks are so crucial. 
Notre Dame will be comfortably favored to win its next two games, as it has been in most of its games this sea­son. 

Fullback Ray Zellars leaps over a BYU defender for some extra yardage during the first half. 

But a performance similar to some those games-particularly agains USC-could lead to a much differen result. 
Southern Cal is a long way from glory days of the past, but this means more to Trojan coach Jo Robinson than almost any other. 
He is 6-1 against Notre Dame and he promised in a speech earlier this year that his team wouldn't lose in South Bend. 
"[Robinson] is 6-1 against us?" Bereich asked. "Well, as long as he doesn't 
play guess we'll be alright." But Bereich knows the magnitude this game. 
"It's more than a game, it's the est rivalry in football," he said. dition makes it one of the biggest every year regardless of the records. This year we just have more at stake that's all." 
A national championship. That's all. 

The Observer/John Bingham Mike Miller races for one of his two touch­down. 

111118 TEAM (FIRST PLACE VOTES) RECORD POINTS 111110 
1. 1550 1 2. 1485 3 3. 1366 5 4. 1307 2 5. 1292 6 6. 1269 8 7. 1117 11 8. 1089 10 9. 998 4 10. 994 19 11. 841 13 12. 837 14 13. 790 18 14. 752 7 15. Wisconsin 748 16 16. Colorad(};t. 66 20 17. Oklahoni!l 539 9 18. West Vir(lt 531 17 19. UCLA • 520 22 20. Louisville 323 23 21. Virginia 315 15 22. Washington 256 12 23. Syracuse 207 24 24. Michigan 117 25 
25. Washin 
58 
Others receivin na 56, Boston College 31, Cal ansas State 20, Kentucky 15, Mi righam Young 6, Virginia Tech rolina State 3, Southern Cal 3, e 2, Georgia 2, Oregon 2, Wyom 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 
Becton 6 run (Penderga!ll kick) 2:43 Miller 66 pass from McDougal (Pendergast kick) 11:26 
NO Edwards 5 run (Pendergast kick) 2:04 BYU Drage 2 pass from Young (Herrick kick) 
0:16 ND Edwards 2 run (Pendergast kick) 2:36 BYU Young 3 run (Herrick kicl<) 9:20 ND Miller 35 pass from Failla (Pendergast kick) 
2:23 BYU Anderson 4 pass lrom Clements (kick failed) 
1:01 
NO BYU 
First Downs  24  14  
by rushing  16  6  
by passing  8  7  
by penalty  0  1  
yardage  535  235  
Offensive plays  69  66  

Avg. yards per play7.8 3.6 Rushing yards 307 125 Rushing plays 51 32 Passing yards 228 140 Passes completed 12 20 Passes anempted 18 34 Passes intercepted 0 1 
-fumbles lost 1-0 2 ·1 Penalties-penalty yards12-10314-87 3rd down conversions 5-12 5-16 
percentage 21.7 31.2 4th down conversions 2-2 1-2 percentage 100.0 50.0 
Lytle Burris Mayes McDougal 
PASSING 
McDougal Failla 
RECEIVING 
Dawson Miller Mayes 
C. Johnson McBride 
DEFENSE 
Bereich Goheen Covington Lane Burris Tatum Gibson Hamilton Magee 
B. Taylor Berry Young Sample Knight Wooden ATT 
18 8 6 6 4 2 1 1 5 
COMP 10 2 
NO 4 3 3 
YDS 
122 
72 
37 
33 
25 
10 
7 
7 
-11 
ATT 16 2 
YDS 57 117 42 8 
3 
T FR 6 0 6 0 5 0 5 0 4 0 4 0 4 0 4 0 3 0 3 0 3 0 3 1 2 0 2 0 1 0 
AVG 6.8 
9.0 
6.2 5.5 6.2 5.0 7.0 7.0 -2.2 
YDS 177 51 
AVG 14.2 39.0 14.0 8.0 3.0 
TL 0 0 0 0 
0 
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 
TO 1 1 2 0 0 
0 
0 0 0 
TO 
TO 0 2 0 0 0 
SAC 0 0 0 0 
0 
2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 
0 
LG 30 29 15 9 10 14 7 7 4 
INT  LG  
0  66  
0  35  

LG 25 66 17 8 3 
PBU \NT 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
BYU 
RUSHING 
ATT YDS AVG TO LG Hall 10 29 2.9 0 15 Willis 11 29 2.6 0 6 Anderson 1 19 19.0 0 19 Young 5 16 3.2 1 23 Nowatzki 1 9 9.0 0 9 Heimuli 2 6 3.0 0 5 Walsh 2 -13 -6.5 0 -4 
PASSING 
COMP ATT YDS TO INT LG Young 12 23 77 1 1 24 Clements 5 6 50 1 0 12 Walsh 3 5 13 0 0 7 
RECEIVING 
NO YDS AVG TO LG Drage 7 55 7.9 1 24 Nowatzke 3 14 4.7 0 7 Lewis 2 18 9.0 0 12 Hall 2 13 6.5 0 9 Willis 2 13 6.5 0 8 Anderson 2 12 6.0 1 8 Doman 1 11 11.0 0 11 Christensen 4 4.0 0 4 
DEFENSE 
T TL SAC PBU \NT Herget 12 1 0 0 0 Hall 8 0 1 0 0 Cook 7 0 0 0 0 Christianson 7 1 0 0 0 N. Hall 7 0 0 0 0 Muirbrook 5 0 0 0 0 Damuni 4 0 0 0 0 Tarleton 4 0 0 0 0 Mitchell 4 0 0 1 0 Gomes 3 0 0 0 0 Biegel 2 0 0 0 0 Nowatzke 2 0 0 0 0 Mazzona 1 0 0 0 
Monday, October 18, 1993
page 4 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY 
.... 
Injury may sideline Peterson for rest of season 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
PROVO, Utah 
Anthony Peterson's season may be over. 
The senior linebacker didn't make the trip to Provo this weekend after reinjuring his knee in practice last week. 
He will have surgery Monday and expects to miss six to eight weeks. 

Peterson has missed most of the 1993 season after a knee injury forced him out of the 
season-opener  against  
Northwestern.  
He returned for  a few plays  

last week against Pittsburgh, so it is unlikely the he will be able to retain a season of eligibility. 
BERCICH IS BACK: There was some good news for the Irish linebackers Saturday. 
Pete Bereich returned from a shoulder injury to collect six tackles, including a jarring hit to Jamal Willis. 
He says his shoulder is fine. 
Willis may not be. 
WE'RE NO. 2: Thanks to Alabama's tie with Tennessee, the Irish moved up to No. 2 in the polls, setting the stage for one of the biggest games in school history on November 13 against Florida State. 
The Irish have to defeat USC and Navy before the Florida State game becomes the next "Game of the Century," but many are already conceding those games to the Irish and looking ahead to the big one. 
Except the members of the Notre Dame football team. 
"[Florida State] is an out­standing team," Bereich says. "That's what this season will come down to, I hope. But with someone like Coach Holtz run­ning the show, we won't get caught looking ahead. We know that if we don't beat USC and Navy the Florida State game won't mean anything." 
"We're always in touch with our long term goals, but we have to perform in the short term to reach those goals." 
CROWD CONTROL: Notre Dame found out first hand why BYU is one of the nation's best teams at home. 
In its first trip to Cougar Stadium, Notre Dame faced a record crowd of 66,247 that cheered their team long after the outcome was decided. 
"I thought the crowd was as loud and involved as any place I have been," Irish coach Lou 

The Observer/John Bingham 
Lou Holtz called the BYU crowd the loudest he had ever heard. 
Holtz said. "This is the loudest and most loyal crowd I wit­nessed in my entire coaching profession." 
CAREER DAY: Notre Dame had three offensive players 
achieve  career  highs  in  
Saturday's 45-20  win  over  
Brigham Young.  

First it was Ray Zellars, ram­
bling 29 yards for a touchdown and the longest gain of his career. 
Then Kevin Pendergast boot­ed a career-high 44 yard field goal. 
It was Kevin McDougal's turn next, completing the longest pass of his career, a 66-yard touchdown strike to Mike Miller. 


..: 
For long distance collect C&lls. Va. AT&'!' operator dlaled 3 mln. interstate call. 
--~-----------~-------------... 




ACCENT 
Monday, October 18, 1'993 page? 
Foodshare founder reflects on hunger issues 
By JENNIFER GUERIN that has altered some of the ideals of seemingly simple solutions. hunger soon feel overwhelmed by the Accent Writer her years at Notre Dame. When asked to reflect on the situation size and scope of the problem, and cur­"Things aren't quite so easy as they of hunger in the United States today in tail their involvement. 
Like many students qualifying for were when I was an undergraduate," comparison to five years ago, Kelly They feel the problem is too big, financial aid during their first year at she conceded. replied with qualified negativity. "I Mackett Kelly noted sympathetically, Notre Dame, Lisa Mackett Kelly was "It's not an issue of hunger, but an think it's worse," she conceded. and that their modest efforts mean little asked to report to the dining hall for issue of empowerment," she continued. "My biggest fear is that hunger is a in the face of problems with such epi­
work-study in the fall of 1987. Although made manifest to college fad, [an] issue that will be 'in' for a demic proportions. As a direct result of her experiences students through the hungry people of while and then 'out.'" To combat this despair, she asks that 
there, she formed Foodshare, now one the local community, she explained, the Despite her fears and frustration, volunteers continue to look at people as of the university's most well known roots of hunger begin elsewhere, in the Mackett Kelly is careful not to discour­individuals, instead of numbers and hunger-relief organizations. very structure of society itself. age student involvement in alleviating statistics in relation to an insuperable 
Since her graduation from the College Economic and social systems already hunger on the individual and local lev­problem. of Arts and Letters in 1991, Mackett in place work to prevent people, acci­els. "If you look at the people you're help­Kelly has pursued an increased knowl­dentally or intentionally, from getting "I feel like you've got to start small to ing as human beings," she insisted. mo­edge of hunger issues, continuing to call food. think about the big picture," she said. tivation will not wan. on the ideals of individual service These systems are very resistant to Her biggest concern is that people who In her tribute to Father Hesburgh. she instilled in her at Notre Dame. change, said Mackett Kelly, and often begin volunteering for causes as far­wrote that "the best way to change the 
Frustrated with the waste being pro­work against the people by preventing reaching and widespread as global world may actually be in service to oth­duced nightly at the dining hall. where 
ers, one meal at a time.'' she had been performing her work­Incorporating her experience with study. Mackett Kelly was moved to Foodshare and the C.S.C. into her life action. after graduation, Mackett Kelly spent 
With hopes of salvaging and distribut­two years teaching in Maryland, where ing some of the :leftovers, she she brought her students to local food approached the staff at the Center for pantries. Social Concerns in search of help. Together with her husband Tom Kelly, 
"One night I stopped in and that one whom she met through Foodshare at night changed many lives because what Notre Dame, she strove to incorporate I found in that building was not someone the lessons she had learned into her to take care of the problem for me, but own and her pupils' lives. rather others who would enable me to "My husband and I are now both solve the problem," she wrote in a teaching high school," she wrote in her recent tribute to former University pres­tribute to Father Hesburgh, "trying to ident Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. instill in our students the value of ser­
"On the first night we asked for stu­vice to others that had been passed on dents to volunteer for Foodshare, we to us." needed 35. Over 200 signed up." she Foodshare continues to thrive as an 
wrote. organization since Kelly's departure 
Other workers and students had from campus in 1991. decried the same waste, but taken no Its goal remains unchanged: to pro­action to distribute the leftovers because vide an active approach to fighting of health laws and restrictions, as well hunger in the South Bend area. as the extra time and effort the plans 
would entail. Members of the group transport left­
"Foodshare came so easy," said Kelly, over food from both dining halls to local who was joined by law student Kathy homeless shelters on a daily basis, esti­Barron in her efforts to start the pro­mating that their efforts provide over gram, "because it just made sense." 18,000 meals per semester. 
Now a graduate student of public poli­Although she keeps in contact with cy at Harvard University. pursuing a staff members at the C.S.C .. the concentration in families and children, Foodshare founder has made a con­Mackett Kelly's awareness and knowl­scious effort not to follow up on the edge of hunger issues has grown. administration and management of 
She has begun to realize the com­Foodshare itself. plexity of the world's economic and In accordance with her belief in the 
social structures that not only cause importance of each individual effort to hunger to emerge, but also prevent its reach out to the hungry, she wants to alleviation. assure that the organization belongs to 
"If we gave all our extra food in the the students who run it each year. United States to India, that would kill all But when asked about Foodshare said, members and the staff at the C.S.C., she
the Indian farmers," she The Observer/Dave Hungeling demonstrating the increased knowledge replied, "They're still my inspiration."
Two student Foodshare volunteers help to deliver food leftover from the dining halls. 
Notre Dame students work to alleviate hunger 
By KATIE LEHNER providing individuals with the meetings. Anzilotti. are so far removed from the Accent Writer necessary tools to feed them­Foodshare, an offshoot of Only 5-10% of the student issues, said Goldrick, they selves." WHC, was started in the fall of body are active in the issue, remain indifferent to learning 
For many students, hunger To help the local hunger 1987. It arose out of students' including the students involved about the hunger issue. may seem like an issue far problem, WHC puts together frustration over the wasted, in the Wednesday Lunch Fast. Gavigan believes most stu­removed from the ND/SMC and distributes food baskets for leftover food of Notre Dame's There are some classes which dents get involved because they community. both Thanksgiving and Easter. dining halls. involve students in community feel obligated to and it "makes 
Some students however. have People began to wonder service, including helping in them feel good about them­come together to take an active Last year, they were able to where the unserved, leftover area soup kitchens, according selves." role in the fight against hunger put together approximately 330 food from the dining halls went, to Shaheen Goldrick, member Overall, though, he says stu­through various campus clubs baskets for families in the according to Foodshare mem­of the Student Advisory Board dents here are not as involved and activities. South Bend community, and ber Joe Gavigan, and when they of the esc. as observers may think. 
Notre Dame's World Hunger hope to do the same or better found out it was simply being These classes are offered Despite the achievements of Coalition, one of the oldest and this year. thrown out, they organized through a variety of depart­the clubs, Royer is concerned most successful organizations In addition to the Wednesday Foodshare to collect the food ments, ranging from Theology about Notre Dame students' of its kind on campus, works to Lunch Fast and the food bas­and deliver it to area shelters. to Architecture. They involve lack of understanding about increase awareness of lllunger kets, WHC holds a 24-hour fast experiential learning, wherein hunger issues. issues through various aetivities each semester to raise money The group also sends food to the students perform service in "With activities such as work­ranging from the Wednesday and awareness of the hunger both Hope Rescue Mission and the community, then come ing in soup kitchens, raising Lunch Fast to the organization issue. the Center for the Homeless together to discuss their experi­funds, and so forth, our stu­of holiday food baskets. Currently. WHC consists of every night. ences. dents are wonderful, but it's in 
WHC has aided hungry people approximately 10 students Foodshare consists of 70 Goldrick says the problem the next step, in understanding all over the world, including active in the administration and members. each of whom con­with student involvement is that the question and issues of areas in America, South planning of events, in addition tributes at least one hour every "we're increasing awareness of resource distribution, that America. Africa. and India. to the approximately 500 stu­week to help collect and deliver the already aware.'' Notre Dame students don't 
Senior Craig Anzilotti, one of dents involved in the lunch fast. the food. really understand or care to the leaders of WHC, sa.ys the These ten core students meet Last year. the club brought The students that remain understand." coalition's main goal is to once a week in a small discus­over 30,000 meals to the home­active are those who already To get involved with the dif­"increase awareness of the sion group, usually during the less. understand the problem, and ferent clubs, contact Kathy complexity of the hunger prob­lunch hour on Wednesday, to Despite the efforts of WHC she fears that the groups are Royer of the CSC at 631-7862, lem in the world today and to address the hunger issue, and and Foodshare, student aware­not educating others about the Craig Anzilotti of WHC at 232­aid grass-roots organizations, often have speakers or panel ness of the hunger issue problem of hunger. 5287. and Eric Escagne of 
both local and international, in discussions as part of their remains lacking, according to Because Notre Dame students Foodshare at 634-2054. 
~~-----------------------.~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
page 8 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 18, 1993 
Women finish seventh against tough competition 
By AMY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
The women's cross country team finished seventh overall at the Michigan Invitational Sunday morning, against the most competitive teams they've faeed this season. 
Miehigan, ranked third prior to the meet, eaptured the title with 49 points. Stanford, 90 points, and Colorado, 114 points, finished second and third, respectively, out of the ten team field. 

"We had expected it to be competitive. We pretty much knew Michigan was going to win," said junior Kristi Kramer. "We just didn't run together as a team and close the gaps." 
Junior Sarah Riley led the Irish finishing eighth with a time of 18:27. Kramer placed 18th in 18:53, and freshman Emily Hood took 25th at a time of 19:03. 
The fourth and fifth spots for the Irish were secured by Ann Colonna, 50, and Maureen Kelly, 54. The team finished with a point total of 150. 
"We didn't run very well. No one got out really well," said coach Tim Connelly. "Everyone had a poor start but the first three did a good job of recover­ing. 

No. 10 Irish tie for second at Michigan Invite 
By DYlAN BARMMER Sports W ril~r 
The Notre Dame men's cross country tMm finished tied for second in a tield of 13 teams at the Michigan Invitational late Sunday morning. The 10th ranked Irish amassed a total of 98 points, good enough for a second place tie with No. 15 Stanford. The two teams fin· !shed behind No. 7 Colorado, who was the overall winner with a total of 78 points. Rounding out the top five fin­ishers were Tennessee, who finished with 108 points, and host Michigan, who amassed 127 total points. 
Individually, the race was won by Stanford's Gary Stolz, 

who finished with a time of 
25:29. Irish senior captain Mike McWilliams finished third overall with a time of 25:37. McWilliams was the only Irish runner to crack the top ten, although the number two, three, and four Irish finishers were not too far behind. Sophomore Derek Seiling fin­ished 12th overall by running a 26:07, junior Nate Ruder came in 13th with a time of 26:09, and classmate John Cowan took 15th with a time of 26:13. Junior Shane DuBois finished off the Irish scoring by placing 55th with a time of 27:06. 
Although the Irish did not win the race, their second place performance surely helped to ensure them an at-large bid to the NCAA Championships should they fail to finish among the top four at the upcoming District IV meet. 
When asked to evaluate the team's performance, coach Joe Plane said, "We were up against great competition. Our performance was adequate, but we can do better, and we will. We definitely need to improve in our five, six, and seven spots." 
While Plane saw room for improvement in the bottom of the lineup, he could find no fault with his number one run­ner. "Mike McWilliams ran very well," said Piane. "He will do even better in a 10,000 meter race." (Sunday's race was 8,000 meters); 

"Sarah ran a great last two miles. I thought she could run somewhere in the top ten. If she got out better she could have been fifth or sixth." 
After taking first at their own invitational two weeks ago, the Irish were disappointed in their performance. 
"We didn't run as well as we did in the last meet. We can't always have a good meet," said Riley. "We just really clicked at the Notre Dame Invitational." 
The course also added to the problems for the Irish. 
"The course definitely was challenging. It was pretty hilly and it was also soft cause it had been raining," said Kramer. "But, everyone had those condi­tions. We just didn't run as well as we hoped for." · 
The Irish were ranked num­ber nine in the country prior to Sunday's meet. The team now has to work harder on achiev­ing their goal of making it the NCAA's. 
"We're going to focus on mov­ing our fourth and fifth runners up a little bit," said Riley. "The MCC's are a good chance for us to really work together as a group and to prepare for dis­tricts." 

Tennis and hockey win 
The University of Notre Dame women's tennis team won its sixth-straight Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship this weekend as the Irish won all six singles flights and all three doubles. 
The Notre Dame hockey team opened its season byde­feating Waterloo 4-3 in an exhibiton game. Complete cov­erage in tomorrow's Observer. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Attention Skiers: Deposits for the Christmas Trip to Breckenridge, CO. will be taken on Tues. Oct. 19 from 8-9 p.m. in Lafortune, by the informa­tion desk and on Thursday oct. 21 from 8-9 p.m. in Rm 127 Niewland Science Hall. For more infor, contact Dave Zidor at 273-3105. 
Mandatory meeting for any­one interested in being an offi­cial for coree basketball, Monday Oct .. 18 5p.m. at the JACC Auditorium. 
Women's Lacrosse. Tues. and Thurs. at 5 p.m. and Sun. at 4p.m. at Cushing. If you have any questions call Emily at 634­2856 or Michelle at 634-2894. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2


Classifieds 

cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront •  WANTED:$$$  
NOTICES  Private. 257-9101  TICKETS  '86 Alum who endured futility with Faust is hoping to reach the heights  GA AND STUD TIX FOR ALL GAMES  I have Billy Joel Tix for Friday's show and I need to trade them for  
with Holtz. Wants USC, FSU, and  282-2133 TONY  tix to Tuesday's. So let's trade.  
Typing  Seeking rommate to share house.  I NEED ND GA FOOTBALL  BC TIX. Please call Connie at 1­ Call Chris at x4-1069.  
287-4082  $250/mo. incl. all. 273~1640 ev.  TIXS.272-6306  7336 or Connie/Dan at 219-874­ 
4240.  
TYPING Plus computer services  HOME-BASED BED & BREAK­ 
Term papers, newsletters. etc. Free  FAST ALLIANCE -LOCAL &  NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210  CARTOONIST SEEKS GA's for the  
pickup and delivery, (times will be  NOTRE DAME GUESTS.  two lovely people who spawned me.  -1need GAs for the USC  I NEED 2 USC GAs  
scheduled). $2.00 per page, $10.00  FL. ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE  I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  Any home game. Will pay resonable  game-Please call Katie at  
minimum. Call Linda Green, 674­ STILL AVAILABLE AT 271-0989.  Adm. only.  price. Heck, I'd even draw somethin'  284-5447­ PLEASE CALL TARA  
4160  24-HR. ANSWERING MACHINE.  Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653-7162,  for ya. Call Jay at 271-1400  AT #4975  
(W) 201-992-8700  between 6-10 pm any night.  Need 1 USC student ticket & 2 GAs  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  for family. Please call Rich X-4499  
CALL 259-8684.  OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­ Need 2 GAs for any home game  HAVE: 8 USC GA-4 are on 50.  
DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $210.  Call Tim at 273-1757  Wanted: USC tix, std or GA  
Need Business Cards? -call Adworks 1-6756 LOW PRICES, HIGH QUALITY!!  EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE, BUS 232-8444. I  USC Stud. Tckt.  Also, 2 BC GA on 50.  Call Kathy@ x4161 I NEED TIX FOR :  PERSONAL  
ILOST & FOUND I .,.,,,:~~.~~.~  Best Offer Raghib 4-0505  NEED: FSU GA's. Trade or Cash. -Dan 273-0986  -USC  -FLA ST.  -BC  Sophomores!!! Consider a life of patient love from  
NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­ CALL JOHN  at 271-1706  Mom, financial security from Dad,  
LOST: J-Crew Bam jacket(Brown)  $30~50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­ ND ALUM needs several USC GAs.  laughter and music in a country  
It was lost In late Sept. Please con- Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6  6183.  Please call (313)953-5572 after  home for your baby. Please call  
tact Mike at 634-1166 with any  days includes 12 meals $2791  7pm.  3 ST. Tix Book 4 Sale  Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172  
information.  Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291  We will purchase at handsome price  273-4002  anytime.  
Cancun from Chicago $439,  four seats together for the Florida  2 FSU TICKETS NEEDED!! Will  
WANTED  Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Daytona Room w/  State game. 0486.  Pis. call (800) 457­ take student or GA call Annemarie at 312-404-5131 or 312-573-2143  $$Need 2-4 GA's for USC.$$  SMC WOMEN I Want to visit your high school over break as SMC  
Kitchen $14911-800~678-6386  -can Phil x3543  rep? Sign up-Admission Office.  
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up  CA Alum paying top $ for FLA  I NEED 1 USC GA NICK x1777  Mandatory meeting Thurs. Oct 21  
to $2000+/mo. Summer and Career  SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS  STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566  5:30 pm Stapleton Lounge.  
employment available. No experi­ SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A  Desperate alum in DC need Fla  Will SWAP up to 4 GA B.C. tix for  
ence necessary. For more informa­ CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO NO  Need 2 USC GA's  State football tickets! Will pay big  up to 4 GA S.C. tix OR will buy S.C.  Chosen a major yet?  
tion 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584  VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE  Will pay $100 ea  bucks. Call Tom collect after 8PM  tix. 631~6305 or 291-4240  
NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT  x1868  703-768-8569  If you are a sophomore, you should  
We need a Kegirator. Interested in  MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT  Will trade 19" color tv for two GA's  consider it. Being declared gives  
selling us one. Please give us a call.  284-5062  DESPERATELY NEED NO-USC  For Sale!! I II!!  ANY game.  you a DART time advantage. If you  
234-2793  GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT  USC Student ticket for sale  277-6894.  know what you want to declare, do  
FOR SALE: organic cornfed beef  287-4561 AFTER 6 PM.  Will Deal  it If not, watch for further info on  
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  whole or half, raised in Noble  Call Brian x3043  major counseling sessions spon~  
EARN $2500/MO & TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN.  County, Indiana and fed only pure corn. pasture grass, mineral salt  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix to FLORIDA ST $$$.  4 SALE-2 FSU GA'S. BO by  -..,.,.!.1.,..,.,..,.,.,.•,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.!  sored by Sophomore Class Council.  
EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE  with Icelandic sea kelp for vitamins,  800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  10/21. Call Rob @x1601.  I need 2 tix for USC so PLL­ Adoption: Doctor and professor will  
LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  and limestone-filtered well water.  LLEEEAAAASSSSEEEE call Mike  make dreams for your baby come  
HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER  Custom aged and cut at Yoders in  N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets  NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND  at 271-1706!!!!1!!  true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the  
SEASONS. GUARANTEED  Shipshewana, and delivered to  Call Frank or John  $$$!!11 CALL TOM 254-9013  %#%#%#%#%#%%#%#%#%#%#  city; summer by the beach: Your  
EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­ your door. $1.80 pound hanging  1-800~7 49-5975  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­ 
4398 ext 31  weight, with $25 deposit.  291­ Will trade DISNEY tickets  place in winter, and by ocean waves  
1797 ..... "your steak in the country"  I need 2 USC GAs!  Tickets to the USC , BC and  in summer.  Art, music, the best  
FREE TRIPS & CASH I Call us and  Need 2 USC GA  Please call Becca at 4876  Florida St. games for sale.  education, endless love. Call  
find out how hundreds of students  See DEPECHE MODE in Concert  Max x1088  Leave name number and  Franny or Stephen collect (212)369­ 
are already earning FREE TRIPS  ROSEMONT HORIZON (Chicago)  offer. 4~3440.  2597  
and LOTS OF CASH with America's  Fri. Oct. 29  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  FOR SALE: 5 FSU student tickets.  
#1 Spring Break company! Choose  8 pm  FLA. ST. and USC GA"S 2773097  All together.  Call Neil634-4417.  Don't forget to  
Cancun, Bahamas. Jamaica,  3 Tix. Floor Seating  turn in your  
Panama, Daytona or Padre! CALL  Call Ry @4X1163  4 Sale Stu Tix Pitt USC FSU & BC  FSU GA FOR SALE CALL JOHN  LONDON PROGRAM  
NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT  2 FSU GAs x1850  AT (513)533-30231 WILL RETURN  APPLICATION  
TRAVEL (600)328~SAVE or  1 Plane tckt.  NEED USC GA's for my parents.  ALL CALLS  
(617)424-8222  SB to Greenville/  WANTED: NO/USC GA TIX CALL  Call Jim @ 289-6648  
Spartanberg, SC  412~352-3216  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK  10/22 & back  Will trade USC GA's & cash for  
'941 CANCUN. JAMAICA, FLORI­ 10/31 X2485  NEED 6 GAs to ND vs. USC  FSU tix.  Call Jim 312-743-8932  Desperately need 2 GA tickets for  NEED CASH FOR FALL BREAK??  
DA, S. PADRE I SELL RELIABLE  PLEASE call (517)347-8744 ASAP!  USC Game. Help make a little boy's  
PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­ Alum needs to Trade BC GA's for  dream come true. Call collect after  STOP BY THE  
SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH  Stereo for sale.  ( c ((( ( c ( c ( c c c c (( (( c,oooooo,,),)),)))),,)) ) , ) , )  USC GA's. Brian x1979  5pm (404)275-7868  MdRRISSEY LOAN FUND  
TOURS 1-800-426-nlO  If interested call4-2374  I, like everyone else in the world.  
need 4 USC tickets. I'm more des­ I need two USC GA's Please call  $1 0-$250 Loans  
FOR RENT  One way plane ticket from S.Bend to DC. Leaves Oct. 22. $90.  perate than all of them, though.  x1882  $$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$  30 days 1% interest  
Call273-1074.  Please call me-Diane x4253.  FOR SALE  
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ 1 USC stud; 2 FSU stud  NEED 2 USC GAs 634-1786 DESI  11:30-12:30 Mon.-Fri.  
ND/SMC EVENTS  DESPERATELY SEEKING 2-5  233-9279 Richard  Next to Info. Desk, Lafortune  
(219) 291-7153  STAMP COLLECTION-call KJ  USC GA or student tix.Colleen634­ I NEED 1 USC TICKET-GA  
@ 232-7838  2291.  -Student tix book for sale. 4-3440  PLEASE CALL PATII273~3173  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  


Monday, October 18, 1993 
Soccer 
continued from page 12 
chances and we didn't. That's why they won.» Freshman Tar Heel forward Sarah Dacey 
gave North Carolina a 1..0 edge with 33:25 expired in the first half when she launched a 20 yard blast from the top of the goal box 
into the upper left corner of the net. It was a perfectly placed shot which· Renola had no chance of stopping. 
The score stayed at 1-0 through the first half. 
With just over 30 minutes left in the game, junior forward Rita Tower stepped up for North Carolina and scored her first of two goals that came within a six minute span. 
She one-timed a shor1t pass from team­mate Amy Burns and perfectly placed it in the left corner of the net to give UNC a 1-0 advantage. Her second goal came from a header of a Danielle Egan crossing pass which she knocked off the crossbar and in. 
The two quick goal:;; deflated Notre Dame's hopes and seemed to improperly represent the actual playing of the game. 
"We look forward Ito playing them again," said Petrucelli. "On any given day we could beat them." 
"Before, we thought we could beat them," said Renola. "Now, we know we can beat them." 
"At times we lost our intensity and ques­tioned whether we could do it," said Daws. "But its definitely evidenlt that we can." 
"Notre Dame is an up-and-coming team and I thought they gave us a heck of a game," said North Carolina head coach Anson Dorrance. "I credit Notre Dame for 
Student Government Sponsored 
Student-Faculty Quiz Bowl November 8-11 
Please Register in the Student Government Office between October 18 & 22 
1841 Sc:•uth Bend Ave 
2~,7-8338 
INVITES YOU TO A 
PEARL JAM PAJAMA PAR'IY!! 
11:30 PM October 18 
Hang around, listen to Pearl Jam and Have some free midnight muchies courtesy of CACTUS JACK'S THEN at 12:01am 
BUYPEARL JAM FOR $10.99 MIDNIGhrT ONLYPRICE!!J 
The Observer • SPORTS 

their intensity and their commitment.» 
"They played extremely well," said UNC captain Mia Hamm, who last year was named NCAA Player of the Year and cur­rently leads the Tar Heels in scoring. "They play in a great rhythm together. I think their record speaks for itself." 
After a day of rest, the squad was on fire yesterday and played perhaps its best half of soccer this season in the first half against Duke. Inspired by an emotional Saturday night team meeting, the Irish came out determined to demolish the Blue Devils. Duke had beaten Notre Dame in each of the last three seasons. 
The game opened with the Irish yet again missing some quality scoring opportunities 
Their relentless pursuit paid off 36:19 into the first half when junior Jodi Hartwig took a bouncing crossing pass from fresh­man Stacia Masters and kicked it while off balance into the far corner of the net. 
Masters doubled the Irish lead only 1:21 later when she stole the ball from a Tar Heel defender in what had seemed to be a dead Irish scoring drive. With limited play­ing field in which to work, Masters kept her defender behind her and managed to sneak around the right of the Duke keeper and tuch it inside the near post. 
The opening minutes of the second half proved to be a different story for the Irish. Duke head coach Bill Hempen made sever­al strategic changes at the half which caught Notre Dame off guard. In particu­lar, he switched one of his inside mid­fielders with his sweeper to mark up tighter on Daws. 
"Cindy was having her way with our mid­field," said Hempen. "As far as freshman go, she's the best I've seen this season. " 
The adjustment worked for Duke for most of the half, as Daws was neutralized 






$10.99 
* Buy, Sell, & Trade USED CDS * * 100's of CDS $9.99 * *Posters, T-shirts & Calendars * 
~r----------.,
I I 
$2.00 off any, CD 
I 


14.99 & up.
I 

I COUPON VALID 10/20193 TILL 10/31/93 


1.--------­
due to both the fact that the Blue Devil sweeper had her marked and the fact that she was suffering from fatigue. 
"I just got dehydrated and a little tired," she explained. The hot and humid weather was a significant factor in the Irish lapses in the second half. 
Junior Meegan McMullin scored first for Duke and she was followed by sophomore Kelly Walbert. 
The score was locked at 2-2 until Michelle McCarthy put home the game­winning goal with just under eight minutes left in the game. 
McCarthy, who is considered one of the best ball dribblers in the nation, slyly beat her defender to get a 1-on-1 with the goalie, who she beat to the right side. McCarthy had perhaps her best perfor­mance of the season in yesterday's match, as she set up several other scoring oppor­tunities which were not converted. 
"McCarthy had a great game," said Petrucelli, "she's tough to handle when she's got the ball at her feet.» 
"I wasn't nervous," McCarthy said of her feelings when Duke tied the game. "I hon­estly thought we would score." 
Even with the second half lapse, the Irish managed to outshoot the Blue Devils 15-9. 
"We played well in the first half, and we went to sleep for a little while in the sec­ond half;" said Petrucelli. "Fortunately we were able to wake ourselves up and get a goal." 
"They're tough," said McMullin. "They were tough last year and I' think they are tougher this year." 
Indeed, the Irish are tough. Although they didn't get the results they wanted against the Tar Heels, they proved that they can challenge anything team in the nation. 
I I I I I 
__. 
page9 


'The Shirt' soccer style 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 
It was their version of The Shirt. 
When the Notre Dame wom­en's soccer players took the field last Friday versus No. 1 North Carolina, they did so with a newly inspired sense of unity and confidence and the belie that the green uniform jerseys in which they were playing would give them some kind o intangible advantage in the most important game in their team's history. 
The squad was continuing the Notre Dame tradition of chang­ing to a green uniform for a game where the Irish were cer­tainly considered an underdog. 
And without a doubt, the Irish were considered underdogs in their match-up with the Tar Heels, who have won 70 consec­utive games and 11 of the past 12 national champioships. 
Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli conceived the idea o wearing green shirts last sum­mer while looking ahead to the squad's crucial contests. He decided to acquire the shirts and then keep their existence as a secret in order to use them as a motivator for the game. 
"It was to keep us from being intimidated, to give us an extra edge going in,» he explained. "I think it worked.» 
Petrucelli exposed his plan to the jerseys to the squad at a team meeting just over an hour before game time. 
"They were surprised and excited," he said, "and maybe even a little bit honored." 
"It was the final edge we needed to have confidence in ourselves,» said tri-captain Andi Kurek. 
"There was a certain sense o enthusiasm we had while dri­ving to the game, warming up, and going on to the field,» said tri-captain Stephanie Porter. 
The squad kept its sweat jack­
ets on in the 85 degree humid 
Houston air while warming up 
in order to conceal their suprise 
from the crowd and their oppo­
nent. 
"We were sweating to death,» 
said Porter. 
When the Irish unveiled their 
green jerseys just prior to kick­
off, a feeling of confidence 
swarmed the team and the 
many Notre Dame fans in at­
tendance. 
"There was a real lift when 
they took their jackets off," said 
Petrucelli, "and there was a real 
buzz in the stands when we took 
the field." 
"Our team knows the signifi­
cance behind the shirt," said 
...for weekends/holidays/ birthdays/weddings or just mom's home cooking. 
Call us for all your domestic trave/needsl 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 
page to The Observer· SMC SPORTS 



Belles lose in Saturday's gulleywasher 
By MARY GOOD 
Saint Mary's SportS Editor 
Saturday's stormy weather in Rensselaer, Ind. set the scene for the Saint Mary's soccer team's 1-0 loss to Saint Joseph's College. 
Rensselaer recieved two and one-half inches of rain this weekend which created a mud slide on St. Joseph's soccer field. 
"The footing was treacher­ous," the Belles' coach Tom VanMeter said. 
"It was not a high scoring game and neither team had a lot of shots on goal," he added. The Belles had six shots on goal while St. Joseph's had ten. 
Saint Marys' goal keeper, Anne Kuehne, stopped a break­away. 

In the first ten minutes of the first half of the game senior for­ward, Megan Dalsaso, headed a ball that was tipped in by sophomore Tiffany Raczynski. The goal, however, was called back due to a foul before the with exams and papers, the 
score. A number of the players are team gave Saturday's gameAfter this call the Belles' spir­still recovering from injuries their best shot, Van Meter its and the rain kept coming suffered earlier this season added. 
Friday, October 22, 1993 

9 p.m.-1 a.m. 


Free Food & Mocktails Pre-USC Bash 
At LaFortune Ballroom 


Sponsored by SADD 
Monday, October 18, 1993 

SMC falls to Indianapolis 
By MARY GOOD 
Saint Ma 's S rtS Editor 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team suffered a disappointing mid-season loss on Saturday to the University of Indianapolis. 
The Belles lost 13-15, 0-15, and 5-15. 
"We came out so. strong in the first game," said coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
In game one, Saint Mary's was up 6-0. They continued to dominate the game and were ahead 12-6 when the University of Indianapolis rallied for the win. 
"Being beaten in that game after we had been leading the entire time devastated us," said coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
The main problem for the Belles was communication. "There was just no talk on 
the court," Schroeder-Biek said. 
The girls also had a hard time focusing and concentrat­ing. They had a tough week with a lot of late nights due to volleyball, the Belles' coach commented. 
The team is also suffering from a lot of illnesses and in­juries due to mid-season and mid-semester stress, Schroeder-Biek added. 
After their game the Belles had a team meeting. 
"All of the girls were frus­trated with the way we played," Schroeder-Biek said. 
With only eight games left, Schroeder-Biek said this is merely a small mid-season laspe and she is confident that the team id going to be ready to take on the University o Chicago on Tuesday. 

NATIONWIDE OPINION RESEARCH INTERVIEWING 
Sautrday and Sunday: Day and Evening Shifts Weekday: Evening Shifts 
Excellent for resume. All majors fine, but especially suitable for those interested in business, marketing, market research and political science. Comfortable working conditions. 
PC experience desired; typing required. 
Call 219,2 3 3,3453 for appointment. 
Market Strategies 
108 North Main Street Suite #311 South Bend, IN 46601 

Happy Birthday 
M~llllv~ 
We love you, Mom, Dad, Mark & Brad 
1993-94 Notre Dame Men's Basketball 
Student Ticket Distribution: SENIORS -October 19 JUNIORS/LAW/GRAD -October 20 SOPHOMOP.ES/FRESHMEN -October 21 
BE A PART OF IT! 

Monday, October I8, I993 The Observer • TODAY page II 
SPELUNKER 
:r.'M Now WITH K£'/IN McDOvU.Al K.E.VIl'i, Yov"J£ STePPED OVT OF RtCI< MIRER's SHADOI\.l To LfAD THf IRISH To 
A l-0 RE.CORD.
,..----­

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
YouR_ Gl!fsY PLAY IN 1ltt DO You 1ll1NI< PoWLUS
SO, K£VIN1 I ~UfSS THE 816 (,AMES HAS £ARN£D OUFDTION ON £Vf.F?.YCJ"~5 Wlt..l BE. ABLE TO ND A lt2. R.ANKIN(n AND MiND IS... PLAY SooN 7 Pi w;,ITIMAI£ SHor AI IIWOTHER NA1JON AL CHAMP­
IONSHIP 





OF INTEREST 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 24 Uses a settee 47 Strong brew 25 Aladdin's 48 Indignant
1 Snare benefactor displeasure5 Cut result 26 Narrow margins 50 River hazard 9 Cry of triumph 28Copy 51 A mil. absentee 
12 Columnist Barrett 29Chum 52 Actress Hope or Jessica
13 Bowling score 32Comedian Johnson 53 Recorded
14 Warning to proceedings
motorists 33 Verity 54 Opposite of ant. 
15 Leave 341dol unmentioned 55 Otherwise
35 The etller 16 Annoyance 56 Do k.p. work 
36 Bright 18 Unit on a space 
37 Tiny pHsts vehicle, for 

38 Proofr·~ader's DOWN
short mark 
1 Fish from a 39 Bill of fare moving vessel 
19Pieased 
20 Responds 40 Loads 2 Juliet's love 
21 In an 
42 Nursery toys 3lllwill

unrestrained way 45 Danger 4 Sajak or Boone 23 Unites 46 Find distasteful 5 Fine mist &Ace, e.g. 7 Onassis ANSWIR TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE nickname 8 Cut down; abridge 9 Wonderland girl 25 Hog's sound 38 Fisherman's 44 Star of "Blume 10 Owls' calls 2&0wns basket in Love" 11 Bristlelike 39 Dull finish 45 Las'


27 Noah's boat 40-AI dente

appendages 28 Essays companions DINING HALL 13 Diva Beverly 41 Antisocial 46 They get 
29 Peevishness 
burning desire cooped up 30 Exist

14 Old West 42Cowboy's 49-demer transport, for 31-Aiamos milieu (seasickness) short 33 Mechanism for 43 Cheer 50 Drain 
~-'--+-'~~~ 11 Eagle's nest Casey Jones 
":,:+.,-+;:-f.:::-l 19 Obtains 34Ciue 
Get answers to any three clues 

~:;+:;.+.;~ 22 Equine 36 Astronomer 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

progenitor Carl-­5656 (75¢ each minute).
l=:.J.:~:..&.;::.J 23 Substantial 37 Allot 


Thursday night from SUB ... 

Guess fiJiw 8 Coming flcousfic 
f£) Dinner? Cafe 
Montgomery Theater The Huddle 8:00 and 10:30 $1 free! 
Craz Stuff and More! 


Irish trounce Cougars 
Defense leads rout of BYU 

~ ~~~ 
_--~EE SPORTS EXIRA 
SPORTS 
page 12 Monday, October 18, 1993 
Tar Heels take advantage of Irish 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Sometimes, no matter how hard you try, you just can't get the break you need to succeed. 
That was the case this week­end for the Notre Dame wom­en's soccer team, which fell to the No. 1 North Carolina Tar Heels 3-0 in its opening match of the Women's Collegiate Classic in Houston before thwarting the eighth ranked Blue Devils of Duke yesterday, 3-2. 
The fifth ranked Irish com­peted with the best of the best in this first annual tournament and yet again proved them­selves to be a viable member of the nation's elite in collegiate soccer. 
In a surprise maneuver, the 14-2 Irish squad donned green uniform jerseys for its match­up with No;th Carolina, a move which proved to give the Irish a lift against the heavily favored Tar Heels. 
"That was awesome," said freshman Irish midfielder Cindy Daws. "It was an extra incen­tive and it pumped us up." 
However, green jersey's were not enough to get Notre Dame past powerhouse UNC. 
It was the first ever meeting between the young and inex­perienced Notre Dame program of the perennially dominant North Carolina program, which has won 70 consecutive games 

The Observer/David Hungellng and 11 of the past 12 national Freshmen Cindy Daws and the No. 5 Irish fell to No.1 North Carolina in titles. 
the Women's Collegiate Classic. 

Inside SPORTS 
SMC Volleyball and soccer wraps from this weeek­end's games. 
see page 10 



Cross Country Senior captain Mike McWilliams finished third overall at Sunday morning's invitational 
see page 8 
Typically, a 3-0 score can be 

interpreted as a rather lopsided game. However, Friday's con­test between the Irish and the Tar Heels was by no means a typical game. 
"I didn't think the score re­flected the game," said Daws, expressing a sentiment felt throughout the team. "I thought we did really well." 
"We played better than the score indicated," echoed Irish tri-captain Stephanie Porter. "That's the frustrating thing." 
Indeed, the Irish entered the contest with few but themselves having confidence in their chances of success. It became evident midway through the first half that Notre Dame had a solid opportunity to become the first team to knock off the Tar Heels since October of 1990. 
Sophomore forward Rosella Guerrero nearly gave the Irish a 1-0 lead when she rose high above the crowd in the penalty box to receive a Tiffany Thompson cornerkick and pro­ceeded to head a bullet into the North Carolina crossbar. 
Although the Tar Heels out­shot the Irish 22-6, they had difficulty in netting a goal be­cause the Irish would not allow any quality scoring opportuni­ties. Only ten of the UNC shots were on net. 
"They took a lot of shots, but they weren't better because of that," said freshman goal­keeper Jen Renola. "That's just how they play." 
The Irish differ from North Carolina in that they play a much more controlled style of 
Powlus lost for season 
Observer Staff Re ort 
Freshman quarterback Hon Powlus refractured his collar­bone yesterday at practice, sidelining him for the remain­der of the season. 
"After throwing a pass he felt pain in his arm and knew right away that it was injured," said Notre Dame Sports Information director John Heisler. 
He was taken to Memorial Hospital lust night and x-rays revealed that the break oc­curred in the same location as the previous injury suffered during fall drills. 
Powlus right arm was put in a sling and more x-rays will be taken tomorrow. Surgery is not necessary, but the rehabilita­tion will take a minimum o two months. 
Powlus had been cleared to practice only last week and was still not allowed to partici­pate in contact drills. 
offense and they work the ball forward until a quality scoring opportunity arises. 
The difference in the game was due to the fact that the Tar Heels converted their scoring opportunities and the Irish did not. 
"In a high-level game like this, there are going to be very few chances to score," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "They finished their 
see SOCCER I page 9 

Irish top Falcons to boost winning streak 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish must like Ohio. 
Following two shutout victories over Xavier and Ohio State last week­end, the Notre Dame men's soccer team returned to Ohio to down Bowling Green 2-1 yesterday after­noon. 
The Irish were able to pull out the victory despite the fact that they were missing starters Tim Oates, who could not play because of yellow cards, Tont Richardson, who had a hamstring pull, and Chris Mathis, who injured JVs foot earlier in the week. 
"This was a good win, especially since we only had seven starters," said Notre Dame head coach Mike Berticelli, who achieved his third straight ten-win season with the vic­tory. "It's never easy to beat some­one on their home field." 
The Irish jumped out to a 1-0 lead just 13:37 into the contest when sophomore Bill Lanza hooked a shot around Falcon goalie Dan Traver. Defender Chris Dean was credited the assist on the play. 


The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
Jean Joseph and the Irish trounced Bowling Greeen 2-1 yesterday. 
Notre Dame increased their lead at the 57:14 mark when freshman mid­fielder Konstantin Koloskov booted in a loose ball from in front of the net. The goal, which later proved to be the game winner, gave the Irish a 2-0 advantage. 
"Konstantin has been due for a goal. He's been getting better and better," continued Berticelli. 
Bowling Green spoiled Bert Bader's bid at four consecutive shutouts late in the game, when midfielder Tom Kinney's header attempt was rebounded to Tony Dore, who scored to narrow the Irish lead to 2-1. Kinney and Brian Ferguson assisted on the play. 
The Falcon goal with only 3:13 left to play ended a streak of over 370 minutes of shutout soccer pitched by the Notre Dame defense, who were led in the game by Dean, Kevin Adkisson, Dane Whitley, and Brian Engesser. 
Bowling Green outshot the Irish 19­15 and tallied nine corner kicks com­pared to only six for Notre Dame, but the Falcons could not capitalize on the scoreboard. 
"I was pleased with the way we played, but disappointed that we gave up a goal," continued Berticelli. "We didn't finish as well, but, to give cred­it to their goalie, he made some nice saves." 
Falcon goalie Dan Traver had four saves in a losing cause, as Bowling Green dropped to 8-5 on the season. 
With the victory, the Irish improved to 10-4, and are currently riding a four-game win streak, their longest this season. Notre Dame will be in action again on Thursday, as they will take on Western Illinois on Alumni Field. 






