j 
f\ . . : . VOL. XXV. N0.1 03 TUESDAY , MARCt·r3. 1993 
The Observer 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Connolly wins '94 ticket; others to face run-off 
By NANCY DUNN 
News Writer 
Class elections yesterday yielded a victory for the Dan Connolly ticket for the senior class and a run-off in the sophomore and junior class races. 
Connolly, with Vice President Maura Cavanagh. Treasurer David Gene! and Secretary Megan Junius, will continue to represent the class of 1994. The ticket won 63.7 percent of the vote and a majority of 20 of the 26 dorms. 
A run-off will be held Wednesday between the junior class tickets of. Bryan Corbett 
(37.1 percent of the vote) and Ira Wade (21.2 percent) and the sophomore tickets of Michaela Kendall { 42.1 percent) and Tim Glenister (36.2 percent). 
Students can vote in their dorms between 11 a.m. and 1 
p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. Off­campus students can vote at the LaFortune Information Desk at the same times. 
"It is a great honor to have our classmates feel that we have served them well and that they have faith in us to continue 

GSU revamps elections 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Major overhauls in the Grad­uate Student Union's {GSU) constitution last fall have re­sulted in major changes in election proceedings for GSU officers this spring. 
The most outstanding changes include mail-in voting ballots and split tickets for the positions of president and vice president. Prior to this year, students could only run on double tickets and a singular voting booth in Hesburgh Li­brary was the only location available for students to cast their ballots. 
The new election procedures were prompted by an attempt to increase graduate student involvement on campus, ac­cording to Ulick Stafford, Chairman of the GSU Elections, Credentials and Procedures (ECP) Committee. 
"There were a lot of times when we had students inter­ested in running for a position, but they could not find anyone to run with them," Stafford said. "The opinion of the committee was that we should have two tickets. This way we will hopefully have a more var­ied pool of candidates." 
Although the voting booth in Hesburgh will still be available to graduate students on election day, mail-in ballots will be circulated in the Graduate Student Newsletter, a periodical sent to all graduate students. 
"In the past, the elections have drawn only 15 to 20 per­cent of the students," Ulick said. "By sending ballots in the 
see GSU I page 4 
in the same manner for the next year," said Connolly. 
"We are pleased that our class had enough confidence in us to re-elect us and we are ex­cited to have a great senior year," said Junius. "We are looking forward to continuing all the projects that we have al­ready started," added Genel. 
In the junior class race, the third-place Mike McEvilly ticket objected to the results, arguing that Grace Hall ran out of bal­lots at 6:15 p.m. and judicial board members turned voters away. The ticket took 20.9 per­cent of the votes, four votes be­hind the second place Wade ticket. 
McEvilly said his ticket will not appeal the decision in order to allow the election to proceed. 
"The election process was run poorly," McEvilly said. "It's the responsibility of the j-council to let them U-board members) know what they should do." 
The dorm's j-board members were told through their judicial council presidents that they had the authority to create makeshift ballots, according to Judicial Council Pre'sident Pete Castelli. 


Sophomore Class 

]• n io r Cl11ss Senior Cl11.ss 


• Note: In the sophomore class, there will be a run-off between Kendall & Glenister. In the junior class, there will be a run-off between Corbett & Wade. 
The Observer/Christopher Mullins 
In the sen'1or class, Connolly is the decisive winner. 
Run-off candidates are busy Wade. campaign allotment during this planning their campaign Candidates involved in the period. strategies for the Wednesday run-offs were given another 24 Elections Committee Co-chair elections. "We're glad that we hours to campaign starting at Andrea Sullivan said the elec­made the run-off, and we'd like midnight today and ending tions went smoothly and gen­to thank the people who cast midnight tomorrow. Candidates erated a lot of interest on cam­their votes for us initially," said cannot spend over their $100 pus. 
'Carte Blanche' adds meal hours at SMC 

program will improve the value
Brother Bonaventure Scully, rector of Keenan Hall, prepares dinner at 
and convenience for students.

Dismas House, a community house for ex-convicts. 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
News Writer 

To better accommodate the 
needs of Saint Mary's students, 
Marriott Food Services recently 
announced plans to open the 

dining hall for 12 hours per day, 
beginning in the fall of 1993. 
The new serving hours will run 

from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on 
weekdays. Weekend hours 
have not yet been determined 
but they plan to extend them 
also. This new program, called 
"Carte Blanche," will include 
unlimited service for students 
throughout the day. Students 

may come in more than once 
per meal, according to Liz 
Bohlke, Dining Hall Director. 
The new plan will avoid 
scheduling conflicts and the 
current need ftfr the box lunch 
program for students who 
attend class during dining hall 
hours. 

It was put into action by the 
Marriott corporation, the RHA 

food committee, and the 
administration. Suggestions 

from the student suggestion 
board, which asked for longer 
serving hours, were also used. 

It is unsure if there will be a cost increase for food services as a result of this change. However, Bohlke feels that this plan will give students the best value for their money. A change in the number of meal plans would have been too expensive for students, according to Bohlke. She said that the past system was a 19 meal per week plan. But the cost is based on a cost for less than 19 meals, accounting for 
The Observer/ Brian McDonough 
the price of missed meals. "We feel that the Cart Blanche We did consider changing the meal plan again but we felt that this was the best option for students and the school." A general operations schedule of dining hall service includes the following: 

•full 
breakfast from 7 to 9 a.m., breakfast items grilled to order; 

•pastries 
and juices from 9 to 


10:15 a.m.; 
•beverages 
only from 10:15 to 10:45; 

•10:45 
a.m. to 1:15 p.m. deli, traditional, specialty formats, grill, desserts, and salad bar; 

•1:15 
to 3:45 grill, deli, and salad bar; 

•beverages 
only from 3:45 to 4:15; 

•4:15 
to 6:15 deli, self-serve traditional, one specialty format, grill, dessert, and salad bar; 

•6:15 
to 7 p.m. grill, salad bar, and deli. Another change is that a grill and fryers will be put on line three to enable students to have breakfast, grill sandwiches, and burgers to order. According to Bohlke, this program was implemented by Marriott at other college campuses, including Denison University in Ohio, and they have been very successful. Because the dining hall will be open additional hours, these changes will affect the student work-study program. "The number of hours will increase but we won't know where to make the adjustments until we actually open up in the fall. We will most likely have to restructure schedules," said Scott Pearson, dining hall manager. Tanya Wilson, a sophomore student manager commented, 


see MEALS I page 6 

Cooking it up 
~ -----~---~­
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
The mystery and meaning of the tanning salon 

This last weekend I participated in a national phenomenon: I paid money to be exposed to radiation. 
Since I will be exposed to the merciless South Padre Island sun for a few days of my Spring Break, a friend of mine convinced me that going to a tanning salon was in my best interests. Let me 
Mark Krejci 
Business Copy Editor 
recount a little of my-------­harrowing experience. The radiation distributors first ask you how susceptible you are to burning. I stretched the truth a little, "Oh, I don't really burn that easily." From that answer and a little questionnaire the young woman who worked there determined what dose of radiation would be adequate for me-tWo minutes. She gave me a pair of goggles that made me look like Spiderman with long hair, and then led me into a dimly lit dressing room. Here she instructed me how to correctly microwave myself: "Once in the booth, rotate to get even exposure, make sure to wear your goggles, and flip this switch when you're ready to enter the 'booth.'" They don't flip the switch for you. The radiation exposure is completely self-induced. The tanning booth is similar in size to a telephone booth with long cylindrical tubes on the walls which light up green or purple. All I could think of was radioactive materials like those in Homer Simpson's workplace. I undressed, flipped the switch, hesitatingly entered the radioactive telephone booth, and shut the door. I could hear the swizzling of the lamps as my heart raced. As I rotated my body in a similar way as a microwave rotisserie, I tried to stay calm. The two minutes seemed an eternity. What if the lamps didn't shut off in two minutes? What if I were locked in? I would surely be a human chicken nugget. The experience made me think of the price of trying to live up to societal image of what is desirable. Being tan is considered desirable, yet there is a general consensus in the medical community that there is no such thing as a safe 
tan, since exposure to UV rays (from the sun or lamps) can lead to premature aging of skin and skin cancer. 
Have you ever seen middle-aged men and women whose skin now has the texture of worn leather from tanning every year? 
Nevertheless, people will continue to tan as long as it is considered an ideal of beauty and desirability. 
In fact, Time magazine estimates that tanning salons are a $300-million a year business. And all because tan is beautiful. 
Why is tan beautiful? Why aren't people satisfied with their natural skin color? Is my wanting to be tan tantamount to Michael Jackson. wanting to be white (barring the rare skin disease theory)? 
It is ironic that being tan is desirable when people who have naturally darker skin face discrimination. 
My friend's probably right that I'm going to burn in South Padre. Maybe I'll wear long sleeves and jeans at the beach. I'm sure I'll meet lots of people that way. 
Today's Staff: 
News  Systems  
Michael O'Hara  Harry Zembillas  
Emily Hage  
Theresa Aleman  Business  
John Connorton  
Production  Susan Marx  
Kira Hutchinson  
Rich Riley  Viewpoint  
Guy Laranger  
Sports  Dyan Rohal  
Jason Kelly  
Graphics  
Illustrations  Chris Mullins  
Tim Wells  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer 
: .:. 
' ::. FRONTS: 
:: ::: ... •• • 
.f • COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Gas tank explodes; eight injured 
• ACAPULCO, Mexico -An apparently leaking gas tank exploded Monday, blasting debris more than 1,600 feet and injuring at least eight people, officials said. The blast also damaged cars and homes. Firemen in this Pacific coast resort city had gone to investigate a reported leak when the 130-gallon tank exploded, said Fire Department Cmdr. Jaime Espinosa Flores. Eight people were treated for burns, most of them not serious, a Red Cross spokeswoman said. At least seven homes were damaged. About 500 families were evacuated. The accident occurred in a poor neighborhood overlooking Acapulco Bay, far from the city's main beach-side tourist area, Espinosa said. 
NATIONAL 
Jury chosen in Sudafed tampering 
• SEATTLE -A jury was selected Monday for the trial of a man charged in the drug-tampering deaths of two people and the near-fatal poisoning of his wife. Opening statements were set for Tuesday in the trial of Joseph Meting, 31, of Tumwater. He allegedly put a cyanide-filled 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Safe Spring Break-"Win a car and other fabulous prizes." Take the BACCHUS Pledge, don't drink and drive. Pledge cards/entry forms are available at the North and South Dining Halls and the Huddle from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol & Drug Education. 

• 
"Effective Resume Writing Workshop" How to write a powerful resume which accurately depicts your strengths and your qualifications will be discussed. The importance of focusing your resume will be demonstrated. Tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Foster Room. LaFortune Student Center. 


• Rescheduled Relationships Seminar, "Breaking Up 
~'Is Hard to Do: When Relationships End," will be presented by Kimberly Hilton and Jamie Davidson of Notre Dame Counseling Center tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 300 of the University Counseling Center, Health Services Building. 
• Van Driver Training Course will be held Tuesday, March 2 and Wednesday, March 3 at 5:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns, Room 124. The course is mandatory for anyone wishing to drive a Center for Social 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 1 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 295,556,030 -0.32 to 243.76 S&P COMPOSITE -1.37 to 442.01 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -15.40 to 3,355.41

UNCHANGED 540 

GOLD 
+ $.20 to $330.60 oz. 
SILVER + $0.021 to $3.533 oz. 

-----~---------------------~ --­
Tuesday, March 2, 1993 The Observer 
HPC prepares 'buy' and 'bail' 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be able to "buy" the services of famous Notre Dame personalities and other students will be "arrested" or held for bail to raise money for the Beeler-Hipp Memorial Scholarship Fund, according to Lewis Hall co-president Heather Arnold. 
Arnold and other members of the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) are now finalizing plans and administering sign-ups for the upcoming events, Buy a Domer and Bail a Domer. 
"Buy a Domer" is the name for the annual HPC auction that has featured such famous Domers as Rocket Ismail, Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy, and Lou Holtz, while "Bail a Domer" is a new 

• 
event that has been created to increase awareness of the auc­tion, Arnold said. 
Last year, the auction had an overwhelming response, raising over $30,000 for the schol­arship fund. Although HPC does not expect to raise quite that much money this year, Arnold said she has high ex­pectations for the events. 
"Members of HPC are very excited," she said, "especially for the Bail a Domer event." 
From now until Th.ursday, students can sign up in their dorins to have one of their friends or roommates "arrested" on March 18. The prisoners will be brought to a holding area in LaFortune Stu­dent Center and will not be freed until their friends bring enough bail money, Arnold 
explained. 
• 
Office of Alcohol & Drug Education 
wishes you a safe 
Spring Break/ 
Register Wednesday and Thursday in the dining halls and Lafortune for a drawing to win a car and other great prizes! 
Bail will be set at a $10 mini­mum, and telephones will be at holding areas so prisoners can call their friends, Arnold added. "HPC volunteers dressed as wardens will hold 20 or 25 students prisoner at time. It should be a lot of fun, and hopefully it will raise awareness of the auction that night," she said. 
All proceeds from the bail money and from the auction will go toward the scholarship fund. Local businesses have donated prizes to be raffied off at the auction, and raffie tickets will be available in the dining halls the week after spring break. 
The auction will be held the evening of March 18 in the LaFortune Ballroom. "Last year the event was a huge suc­cess," Arnold said. "We hope this year can be just as reward­ing." 

A Spring Breal~ to Remember 
You've worked hard aud now it's time to relax and have fun! Keep these things in mind during your vacation: 
'You don't have to be drunk to be impaired-even one or two drinks affect your driving skills. 
' Drinking, drugs, and driving don't mix. 
'Take your turn-be a designated driver and get everyone where they are going safely. 
'Respect other_l!eople's r~t, and your own-~o choose not to drink. There's plenty offun to be had Without alcohol. 
'Res~ct state laws and campus policies. 
'Don t let your friends drive impaired -it's one of the 
fastest ways to end a friendship. 'Wear your seat belts-it's your best protection against an impaired driver. Play it safe. Becaui!C memories are only fond if you have them. 
For more information contact: BACCHUS, P.O. Box 100430, Denver, CO 80250-0430 (303) 871-3068 
The Observer/ Brian McDonough

Science in progress 
Notre Dame graduate student Hong Wang measures the calcium concentration of Notre Dame tap water. 
BOG plans woman's day 
By CHRISTINA CANNON 
News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary's Board of Goverence (BOG) last night discussed the agenda for the upcoming Woman's Appre­ciation Day to be held Saturday, March 20. 
Speakers and activities will be featured throughout the day, said Saint Mary's senior Martha Marzolf of Student Alliance for Women's Colleges at Saint Mary's. Activities include a performance by Sister Chain and a skit about the stereotypes of women's colleges, which will be followed by a discussion, said Marzolf. 
Members also discussed the possibilit of chan in the 
BEAT THE CLOCK TUESDAY! 5:00p.m.~ 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
.. 
j 
Free Delivery 
271,1177 
smoking policy on campus, said Saint Mary's junior Melissa Whelan, Spiritual Life Commis­sioner. Faculty and administra­tion are currently being asked for their input. 
A decision will be made by the end of the semester as to whether Saint Mary's becomes a smoke-free campus or will reserve certain buildings off­limits to smokers. 
On Tuesday, March 16, a proposal for an increased stu­dent activities fee will be pre­sented before senior officers for consideration. 
"If we increase the fee by 20 dollars our student activity fee will be at the lowest college av­erage for a school our size," said student body president Tina Carrara. 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, March 2, 1993 
SECURITY BEAT 
GSU Six hostage children released 
FRI. FEB. 26 
$8~:;j.IQ. Notre Dame Seautity l'&$pQIJ~io a ease Of vandalism near tne main entrance of the Soultl Dlntng HaH. 
11:49 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the Sacred Heart eas!U<;a regarding a possible public iotaxiea.tion suspect. Tho suspect was given a trespa$$ notioe and escartl!d off ea.mpus. 
1:28 p.m. A Stanford Hall re$ide(lt reported the lhefl of his book bag from lhli lobby of the North Dining Hall. 
3:15 p.m. Notre Dame Securily transported an Injured South Bend residl!nt from th11 Law School to the Memorial Hasprtal. 
4:38 p.m.Thr11e Saint Mary's staff members reported damage to .theit vehicles from ice falling !ram HOly crou Hall. 
5:42 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident was stopped on Lake Road for being In possession of a stolen vehicle parl<ing 
decal. 
5:55 p.m. A l<a$nan Hall residant reported the theft of hi$ book bag lrQm the lobby of the SOuth Dining Hall. 7:13p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a vehicle fire In the Mools Inn parking lot. The fire was put out and no one was Injured. 
8:13 p.m. Notre Dame Saci.lrity treated a South Bend rasident who had slipp!ld on some ice in the A 1 5 parking lot. 
8:30 p.m. A Howard Hall resident reportl!d the theft of her book bag from the lobby of the South Dining Hall. 
9:11 p.m. A Howard Hall resident was transported from her dorm to the St. Joseph Medical Center by Notre Dame Security 
SAT. FEB. 27 
2:05 a.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported the theft of his vehicle's license plate while It was parked .In the D02 parking lot. 
3:43 a.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported that SQmeone had broken into the dorm's Food Sales. 
10:48 a.m. Notre Dam11 Security responded to a case of a hot water pipe breaking in Siegfried Hall. No injuries were reported. 
11:38 a.m. A Niles, Michigan resident and an Osceola, Indiana resident were escorted out at the University Village after a resident repartl!d suspicious activity. 
12:13 p.m. Notre Dame S11curity transported an injured PaSquerilla West Hall resld&nt from her dorm to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
3:03 p.m. Notre Dame Security transported an lnjurad South Bend resident from the JACC to the St Joseph Medical Center. 
SUN. FEB. 28 
12:48 p.m. Notre Dame Secur~y repartl!d a suspicious vehicle trying to enter the (18mpl.IS. 2!04 p.m. A Graduate student reported the vandalism of his vahicle while lt was parked in the Fisher Graduate Housing parking an:~a. The vehicle had a broken window 
10:23 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to an accident involving a Wls.aonsln resident at the Ice rink of the JACC. The victim was taken to the St. Joeeph Medical Center by Community Ambulance. 
tified compound, and kept up negotiations a day after a rain of gunfire killed four federal agents and two members of the sect, one reportedly cult leader David Koresh's daughter. 
"We negotiated through the night and they are negotiating again this morning," said Sharon Wheeler, a spokeswoman for the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. She declined to say who was negotiating for the cult. 
At least 75 people remained in the compound about 10 miles east of Waco, about one third of them children, authorities said. Koresh said many of the children were his. 
Three people arrested after the shootout were charged Monday with attempted murder of a federal law enforcement officer and use of a firearm during commission of a violent crime, said Jim Deatley, a spokesman in the U.S. Attor­ney's office. 
The FBI sent its elite Hostage Rescue Team to the scene Monday, said a federal law en­forcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The standoff began Sunday after a 45-minute gun battle with about 100 ATF agents, who were trying to serve arrest and seareh warrants on Koresh for federal firearms charges. 

document. 
"The constitution had been amended so many times that it SENIOR FORMAL was becoming contradictory in TUXEDO RENTALS FROM some places," Stafford said. 
LOUIE'S TUX SHOP
"Nobody had really sat down and gone through it. " PRICES:The ECP Committee trimmed 
Black Classic* ................. $41.95+ TAX
out excessive administrative 
Designer Tuxedos* ............. $56.00+ TAX
costs and "modernized" the 
Shoes ........................ $ 8.50+ TAX
constitution to make it more 
*Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, 
applicable to graduate student 
cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders.
interests, Stafford said. Any graduate student inter­PAYMENT: ested in .running for· either 
Partial or full payment may be made. 
president or vice president 
(A $15.00 minimum deposit is required
should write a letter dedaring 
at the time of fitting). We accept cash, 
candidacy to the ECP Commit­
VISA, MasterCard, American Express, 
tee, GSU, LaFortune Student 
Discover and personal checks. 
Center. Included in the letter WHEN:
must be the candidate's name, position for which they are March 1st, 2nd and 3rd, 1993. running, student identification (6:00P.M.-9:00P.M.) • number, department name and 
WHERE: 

the signatures of five registered 
• LaFortune Center, Theodore's on 
graduate students supporting 
Monday, March 1st and
the nomination. 
Tuesday, March 2nd. 
The deadline for submitting a 
• LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's 
nominating petition is March 3 
on Wednesday, March 3rd. 
at 7:10p.m. at the Graduate Student Council Meeting in the Foster Room of LaFortune. A complete list of candidates will be submitted to the public at "WE MAKE YONTV,,, this meeting. 
THE EVE •
The GSU General Election will take place on March 18. 

DN•r DRINK AND 
''THE BOLG'' 
DRIVE 

HITS 
continued from page 1 
newsletter we are going to make students much more aware of the process that's go­ing on." 
Students choosing to use the mail-in ballots. must submit a photocopy of their student identification card along with their signature. Stafford said this will be a "reasonable check" to verify the legitimacy of the ballots. 
Stafford said changes in elec­tion procedures are only a small portion of the revamping the GSU constitution underwent earlier in the school year. He went on to say that the constitution's focus shifted from several detailed amendments to a more general, less-specific 

WACO, Texas (AP) -A heav­ily armed religious cult released six more children Monday and authorities negotiated nonstop trying to resolve a standoff at a fortified compound where six people died. 
The leader of the cult, who believes he's Jesus, told his mother 'Tm dying, all right?" after Sunday's gun battle with an army of police and federal agents. 
In all, the cult Branch David­ians allowed at least 10 chil­dren to leave. More children were believed to be inside the bullet-scarred compound. 
An army of police and federal agents ringed the group's for­
21 

e~ qooJ .euc~z ... 
IF YOU'RE INTO COCAINE 
WE'VE GOT ALINE FOR YOlJ. The Observer 
ACCENT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Literary Critic Movie Critic Music Critic Weekly Columnist 

iPiease submit a one-page statement of intent, resume, and a writing sample (does not have to be published) to Kenya johnson by 9 p.m., Thursday, March 4, 1993. For more information about any of the positions call Kenya at 631-4540. 
~------..--------~--------~-~­

1 uesaay, Marcn L, 1 ~~;j 1 ne uoserver 
Student Senate approves survey 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
News Writer 
Student Senate finalized a year-long goal by approving the 1993 Student Body Survey in last night's meeting. 
"Everything's in the final stages," said Breen Phillips Hall co-president Stephanie Gallo. "We hope to have the entire approval process complete and the surveys distributed by March 19." 
In other business, Pat Mc­Carthy, Student Union Board (SUB) manager, presented the following nominations for next terms SUB executive board: 
•Ellen 
Zahren as board man­ager; 

•Jamie 
Morris as controller; 


•Chris 
Liang as dire"ctor of programming; 

•
Betsy Harkins as director of relations; and 

•Kate 
Keckler as director of marketing. All nominations were unani­mously approved by senate. 


McCarthy also sought ap­proval from senate on funding events for AnTostal totally over $5000. Bringing the Bungee Run, Ladder Climb, Gyro (Orbitron). Radar Speedpitch and Hi-Stricker will cost ap­proximately $6400, but "will be something the students enjoy," according to McCarthy. 
Greg Butrus, student body president, asked the senate members to think of nomina­tions of students and adminis­trators for the Irish Clover award. 
"Two awards will be pre­sented," explained Butrus. "One administrator will be awarded for their outstanding service to the student body, as will a student." 
Senate will take considera­tions for the award at the next meeting after spring break, ac­cording to Butrus. 
Considerations for the Frank 
A. O'Malley award, acknowl" edging a professors dedication to spectacular undergraduate teaching will also be accepted after break, according to Megan Sullivan, executive coordinator of intellectual life. 
Students will nominate the professor they feel most de­serves an award for their teaching, according to Sullivan. 
By JESSE BARRETT 
News Writer 
The Catholic character of Notre Dame and the extent to which it should affect academic life was the major issue de­bated last night at the Faculty Senate meeting. 
Discussion focused on the Report of the Committee on Academic Life to the Colloquy for the Year 2000. 
Members of the Senate dis­agreed about the amount of importance placed on the Uni­versity's Catholic character. 
A number of faculty members supported the report's emphasis on catholic character. "The Faculty Senate needs to support the report if they want to establish Notre Dame as the greatest Catholic University in the United States," said Profes­sor Bill Miscamble, who is not a member of the Senate but was invited to the meeting. 
"Notre Dame is not some secular university. We are a unique institution. We shouldn't be defensive about it but be creative and forthright in pursuing and creating a first-rate Catholic institution," added Miscamble. 
"Notre Dame is supposed to be the place where the Catholic Church of America does its thinking," said Professor Ge­orge Lopez. "This is where the Catholic Church of America does its bickering. We need to ask how we contribute to the thinking of the Church as a whole," he added. 
Others were concerned that the report might compromise Notre Dame's academic quality. "There is a great deal of em­phasis placed on what will pre­serve our religious enterprise," said Professor Jean Porter. "We need to do more to protect our intellectual enterprise. There needs to be more discus­sion about preserving and en-
Miscamble 

hancing the academic charac­ter of the community," Porter said. 
Professor Ed Vasta added, "We need a culture which will lead to greatness, and this is not mentioned in the Colloquy." 
The degree to which Notre Dame should promote a Catholic faculty was included in the discussion. 
Senate members agreed that the recruitment of Catholic faculty membersis not easy. 
"The experience of our de­partment is that we don't get competitive Catholic applicants. If we stress the hiring o Catholic faculty, we will appoint faculty members who are not the most qualified," said Pro­fessor Michael Detlefsen. 
Notre Dame's prestige as a national university and the im­portance of the graduate school in establishing it was also dis­c u s s e d "We need intellectual intensity, and the small graduate school at Notre Dame greatly limits this. We don't understand the level of true intellectual great­ness," Vasta said. 
The Colloquy details every aspect of university life and procedure. It is broken into four areas which will be syn­thesized into a finished report. Last night's discussion will be considered in the formulation of the final document. 
ALUMNIIllSENIOR Let the Couf1tdowf1Cof1tif1ue: 2WeeRs ar1d adau 'til St. PatrieR's Dau Must be 21  
SENIORS! Buy your senior formal bids!! Monday, March 1 Tuesday March 2 LaFortune Ballroom (formerly Theodore's) 6pm-9pm Wednesday, March 3 LeMans Lobby 6pm-9pm Bids are $60 per couple  

Conserve Energy: turn out your lights 
REAL ESTATE ANALYST PROGRAM 
Before YQu Go Back For Your MBA, Give Yourself A Head Start 
If you plan on taking some time before pursuing your MBA, take a look at this opportunity from The Prudential. 
This is a challenging 2-year program where highly motivated BAs and BSs (who are planning to apply to top business schools in 1995) with at least a B+ or better undergraduate GPA and a strong mathematical aptitude, gain valuable hands-on real estate investment experience. An intensive training program will help prepare you for a variety of real estate modeling and financial evaluation assignments. 
As one of the nation's largest real estate investors, we can offer you an attractive starting salary and out­standing comprehensive benefits along with the oppor­tunity to work with top investment professionals. 
To apply, send your resume and a copy of your col­lege transcript by March 10, 1993 to: Berni Mayer, The Prudential Realty Group, Prudential Plaza, 130 East Randolph, Suite 1200, Chicago, IL 60601-6217. An equal opportunity employer. 
The Prudential Realty Group ® Move Up To The Rock'" 

~------.---------------------------·----------~------------­
1he Observer 1 uesday, March ~. 1~~:3
page o 
Investigators search for cause of explosion 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Investi­gation of the bombing that rat­tled New York City's psyche is being hampered by the insta­bility of the twisted rubble be­neath the World Trade Center. 
Bomb sleuths examined tiny specks collected from the perimeter of the 1 00-foot-wide crater punched out by the ex­plosion in a parking garage be­low the center's signature twin towers. Five were killed and mon1 than 1 ,000 injured in the Fripay noontime blast. 
One person was still missing Sunday. Another missing per­son was safely accounted for Sunday night, far from the blast site. 
The towers, the world's sec­ond-largest buildings, will be dosed for at least a week until safety and security are re­stored. Contractors welded stHel bHams and other supports into the trade center's under­ground area to make it more 

WTC=World
secure. 
Ttade Center 
The smoke-damaged New 
API Bill Castello, Karl Gude
York Commodities Exchange "It was probably unlikely it wasCenter, housed in one of the a lone individual." 
center's smaller buildings, got More than 50 telephone callspermission to open today as the -from people claiming to rep­financial center limped back to resent everything from nation­work. 
alists in the former Yugoslav
Law enforcement officials 
republics to Colombian drug
have said they found traces of 
lords -have been receivednitrate, an ingredient in dy­
since the blast. Tapes from thenamite, at the blast site. Some, calls will be analyzed for ac­
speaking on condition of cents and other clues that
anonymity, told The New York might lead to those responsible. 
Times that investigators have The explosion two floors un­found no traces of chemicals derground was in a strategicassociated with plastic explo­
location that knocked out
sives. 
power, communications andDetermining what type of 
security systems. 
explosive was used and how it was triggered will help investi­Port Authority executive di­gators trace its source. If it was rector Stanley Brezenoff tolda car bomb, authorities will at­reporters Sunday that a studytempt to reconstruct the vehi­
done in 1985-86 had recom­
cle, just as they do when jetlin­mended that parking lots un­ers are bombed. 
derneath the World Trade
"The work could take 
Center be closed to the publicmonths," said James Fox, head because they were vulnerableof the FBI's New York City of­to a bomb attack. 
fice. "(But) we never give up. 
Brezenoff said the recom­
Whoever did this, we will catch 
mendation was rej.ected be­
them, even if it takes 20 years." 
cause it was felt parking wasHe could only speculate about needed for the huge complex.
who planted the powerful de­
But he said restrictions on
vice and why, but said the parking would be reconsideredmagnitude of the blast indi­now.
cated it was the work of a 
A shaken city, meanwhile,
group rather than a crazed 
beefed up security at airportsloner. 
and at buildings public and pri­
Clinton vows to boost college aid 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. (AP)­common attention," Clinton President Clinton pledged said. "National service is noth­Monday to revolutionize college ing less than the American way aid by allowing students to re­to change America." pay loans through community The program was a center­work. He cast his ambitious piece of Clinton's campaign, national service plan as a and he chose the 32nd an­1990s GI Bill to "change ·nrversary of President America forever and for the Kennedy's creation of the Peace better." Corps to formally pn:~pose it as 
president. Congressional 
Starting with a modest 1,000 approval would be required. slots this summer and growing to 100,000 or more within four The event was as much sym­years, the program will make bolism as substance. Clinton's college affordable to all while lofty rhetoric aside, aides say setting off a wave of involve­many details are still unclear, ment in education, health, from how much a student safety and environmental pro­would be able to borrow to how jects, Clinton predicted.· big a stipend to pay young 
"All across America we have people while they work off their problems that demand our loans. 
Clinton's plan is designed to dramatically reshape federal student aid programs and offer young Americans opportunities -and incentive -to perform such community service as working in inner-city children's health and drug clinics, tutoring in literacy programs and walking streets in neigh­borhood police corps. 
The president himself set high expectations for the initia­tive, framing the announcement as "one I hope will be a truly historic moment in our nation's history." He compared it to the GI Bill's offer of education to servicemen returning from World War II, a program that expanded the nation's middle dass. 

Bookstore Basketball 
Late Sign-Ups 
~[b) §(Q) ~ [U]tb@l []@l@(d] ~ 0[fjJ @l 
March 2 & 3 6-9 p.m. March 4 11 a.m. 1 p.m. 
SUB Office 2nd Floor LaFortune $10 Teams should have with them 2 captains 
and 2 team names (one of which should be totally uncensorable) and the entrance fee. 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

vate.
"This was a bomb," Fox said. 
Meals 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
continued from page 1 
"We may need more workers next year because all those 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES WITH ONE OF THE WORLD'S FASTEST GROWING
hours are just too much to ask of a few workers. I am hoping 
COMPANIES.PURSUING HIGHLY MOTIVATED, ENTREPRENEURIAL INDIVIDUALS
that the freshmen this year will stay on the staff for next fall." 
INTERESTED IN EXCELLENT EARNING POTENTIAL. COMMISSION SALES AND
Students have had a positive response to the changes. "I think that is is a great idea 
MANAGEMENT POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR MAY GRADUATES. GENERAL 
but I do wish that they had done this sooner," said senior 
ORIENTATION MEETING SCHEDULED FROM 7..9 P.M. ON MARCH 18 IN LAfORTUNE 
Bridget McCourt. "Hopefully it will help the work study 
CENTER, WITH INTERVIEWS AND OFFERS FOR GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS OF YOUR 
student workers. Plus people will spend much more time in 
CHOICE ON MARCH 19. ATIENDANCE AT THE MARCH 18 MEETING REQUIRED FOR
the dining hall relaxing and socializing after and between 
CONSIDERATION. RESERVATIONS FOR MARCH 18 MEETING SHOULD BE MADE BY
meals." Freshmen Melissa Novack, also a dining hall worker said, "It is 
CALLING CAREER AND PLACEMENT OFFICE 631..5200 
good that the administrators look at what the students need. This new plan will make it 
I RECENTLY JOINED THIS COMPANY AFTER 25 YEARS AND FIVE VP ASSIGNMENTS 
much more convenient for students different schedules." 
WITH FORTUNE 150 COMPANY. THE ENTREPRENEURIAL OPPORTUNITY, EXCELLENT VALUE SYSTEM, AND GROWTH ORIENTED ENVIRONMENT WERE CONSISTENT WITH MY VISION AS AN ND GRAD. 

Business 
Tuesday, March 2, 1993 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

including a modest 0.5 percent increase in Americans' personal income in January, pointed to a moderate and sustained economic expansion this year. Incomes increased to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $5.22 trillion, building on a strong 1 percent advance in December, the Commerce Department said. Consumer spending rose 0.3 percent to an annual rate of $4.23 trillion. the fifth increase in a row. "Even though this report isn't a barn-burner, I'm taking heart from it. After a huge surge in December, I'm happy that (income and spending) didn't fall." said economist Robert Wescott of the WEFA Group. a Philadelphia-based forecasting service. 
Mac~s to eliminate 11 more stores 
Cisneros criticizes 'Gotcha" mentality at HUD 
•WASHINGTON -More than $11 billion for low-income housing programs is trapped in a bureaucratic logjam so tight that even the Clinton administration is struggling to set the money free. Now members of Congress are asking, loudly, what's taking so long to put the money to use in cities that needed it yesterday. "Just what, exactly, is the delay?" Rep. Louis Stokes, D-Ohio, asked Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros during a recent House appropriations hearing. In an interview, Cisneros said he found "a 'Gotcha!' mentality" when he took over HUD -that employees would "tell people why they hadn't complied with guidelines, instead of helping them nx what they need to fix." In the pipeline is $11.5 billion for building more homes for low-income families and for long-term repair and renovation of public housing projects. 
R~onal banks replacing local institutions 
Reich: Clinton would spend more 


WASHINGTON (AP) -The Clinton administration is pre­pared to spend more money stimulating the economy if the proposed $30 billion does not create sufficient jobs quickly, Labor Secretary Robert Reich said Monday. 
"The economy is bouncing back," Reich told the National Association of Counties. "But there's one thing that is not bouncing back and that is jobs. Jobs lag economic growth." 
Reich said many businesses are not expanding their payrolls because of uncertainty about the recovery. 
"There's been two false starts," he said. 
As a result, businesses are working their employees longer hours, finding it more profitable to pay overtime than to add to their payrolls. 
"The only way out of this jobs gridlock is a little bit of pump­priming," Reich said. "If it takes more than $30 billion, it'll be more than $30 billion." 
President Clinton's stimulus package is designed to create 
Bill Clinton 
500,000 new jobs by spending on such projects as public works, highways and waste water treatment plants and on an expanded summer jobs programs for teen-agers. 
Reich did not indicate the amount by which the adminis­tration might increase the $30 billion proposal, of which $15 billion represents tax breaks for businesses. 
Already, Clinton's proposal has come under heavy criticism from Republicans, who questioned why the deficit should be enlarged for a short­term stimulus package given the fact that the economy ap­pears to be recovering from the recession. 

But, Reich told the county of­ficials, "There's been no jobs recovery. We can't have a re­covery without jobs. That's why confidence is dropping." 
After rising much of the last 18 months, consumer confi­dence leveled off in January and tumbled in February as Americans grew increasingly edgy about their financial se­curity, according a survey by the Conference Board, a New York business research group. 
Reich said the 7.1 percent unemployment rate in January was the same that existed a year ago. 
"Twenty-two months after the bottom of the recession, we would have expected 3.5 mil­lion jobs would have been cre­ated," he said. "But only half a million have been created." 
US supports China's entrance to GATT 
BEIJING (AP) -The United States expressed support Mon­day for admitting China to the world trading system and re­sumed talks on the matter that were suspended when Beijing crushed the democracy move­ment in 1989. 
Admission of China to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which regulates much of the world's trade, would boost Beijing's campaign to increase its role and accep­tance in the international community. It already ranks as the 11th largest trading nation. 
The reopening of the GATT talks could indicate that Presi­dent Clinton is backing off his campaign pledge to penalize China for human rights abuses. He frequently criticized Presi­dent Bush for blocking con­gressional efforts to tie Chinese trade to human rights. 
In an apparent effort to put a better face on their regime, China's Communist leaders have released several promi­nent dissidents from prison this year. China also is campaigning to be host of the Summer Olympics in 2000. 
Lorraine Toly, spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy, said Doug Newkirk, assistant U.S. trade representative for GATT affairs, would hold two days of talks with Chinese officials about China joining the trade system. 
"The United States has agreed to staunchly support China's application subject to agreement of an acceptable protocol," she said. 
Newkirk's meetings with Tong Zhiguang, vice minister for the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, were the first in nearly four years on GATT. His delegation also is the first high-level U.S. trade delegation from the Clinton administration. 

China applied to join GATT in 1987. A GATT committee was about to start work on the issue when Chinese troops crushed the widespread democracy demonstrations in June 1989 and the talks were suspended. 
Western nations were con­cerned that Beijing would tighten both political and eco­nomic controls after the crack­down. GATT, whose free-market principles clash with Marxism's central planning, promotes the lowering of barriers to international trade. 
WTC businesses scramble to keep up after explosion 

Impact
Fl.;;:,d;.d with n;.;;;; .;;:;;;j;:;;.;;;:;: Already working for FujiS,ank, Japan; Cantor FitZgerald and others. 
·Setting up computai$··at 
alternative locations tor law firms Brown and WQQd; Shamley and Fischer; Thacher. Proffit & Wood. 
Provided new furniture tor Deal'l Witter, Discover & Co. Inc., Port Autho.-tty of 
N.Y. and N.J.• two Japanese Sanks, 
Impact 
Unable to access offices and sophisticated trading 
~~~fc~ 1rt;~ ta~:•r,.~~es in 
Treasury bonds and other securities to other brokers~ 

-~-~-~--------~-~ -----~--~~-.-,---.--------~---­
Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesdat, March 2, 1993 
The Observer 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor .............•.•...•.. David Kinney Advertising Manager ....... Colleen Evale VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ...•.•••.•.. Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor.••........ Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ....•.............•.. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's . 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'No new taxes'
Sacrifice may lead to political 'failure' 
Dear Editor:  budget by $300 billion over five  be  a  $4  tax  increase.  The  American people are wiling to  means no real  
By now, most of us have heard about President Clinton's  years. Central to the proposed plan  promise of a middle class tax cut is a mirage.  do with less if it will benefit the economy and the nation. How­ solutions  
proposed economic package  is the claim that this package  Marginal tax rates will jump  ever, the President is being  
and taken part in the accompa­ will cut the deficit. The fact is,  by 37%. Taxes will increase on  hypocritical if he expects the  Dear Editor:  
nying debate. This controversy  however, that it is spending  couples earning over $30,000 a  voting  public  to  take  a  Associate Professional Spe­ 
is fundamentally not a discus­ which brought about the deficit.  year. The energy tax will raise  reduction in income while the  cialist  Barry  Baumbaugh 
sion of financial matters.  Indeed. according to Martin  taxes for 55% of Americans, in­ government  increases  its  (Observer, Feb. 24) and his  
Hather, the argument centers  Feldstein, former chairman of  creasing the annual energy bill  expenditures.  wife,  Carole  Havens,  are  
around what sort of leader our  the president's Council of Eco­ of a  family of four earning  The sacrifice of the people  talented activists in a local "no  
new  President will be. The  nomic Advisers and professor of.  $25,000 by $105. In short, the  will help the country only if it is  new taxes" movement. They 
keyword of candidate Clinton's  economics  at  Harvard,  the  American public is asked to  accompanied by a sacrifice in  overlook two factors,  one ab­ 
campaign was change: change  proposed package "provides  shoulder the burden of an ever­ the government. Unfortunately,  stract and one quite concrete.  
from Republican government,  virtually no reduction of the  expanding federal government.  President Clinton's economic  
change from economic apathy,  relative deficit over the next  President Clinton has stressed  package reveals that he has  ( 1) Ridding county govern­ 
and change which would ease  four years."  that, in these changing times,  failed to grasp this concept, and  ment of every semblance of  
the  burden  on  working  How does President Clinton  Americans need to sacrifice in  this deficiency threatens to  nepotism and inefficiency is a  
Americans. Above all, Mr. Clinton por­ plan to come up with the money to facilitate these increased  order to reduce the deficit and spur on the already-recovering  irrevocably link his administra­tion with the failures of past  long term process and the best facilitating strategy is for tal­ 
trayed himself as a change from the "traditional'' Demo­ expenditures? The answer is the old Democratic formula,  economy. Sacrifice. The concept doesn't make  Democrats.  Jesse Barrett  ented and virtuous people to run for County Commissioner  
crat. Throughout the campaign,  taxes.  For  every  dollar  of  sense unless the suffering will  College Republicans  or County Council.  
he sought to distance himself  increased spending there will  produce tangible benefits. The  Keenan Hall  
from  the  liberal,  "tax  and  
spend" image of his party, from  
the failures of Carter, Mondale,  
and  Dukakis.  Here  was  a  
moderate, centrist version of  
the  new  Democratic  or­ 
ganization.  
Unfortunately. based on his  
economic package, it appears  
that Mr. Clinton is not the new  
personification of a new party  
as  we  were  led  to  believe.  
lnstPad, he has returned to the  
policies which have doomed the  
Democrats to past failure and  
has faced the American nation  
with the frightening prospect of  
a government which, if he has  
his way, will greatly increase in  
scope and spending.  
The  President's proposed  
economic package cuts gov­ 
ernment  spending  in  one  
arP.a-dp,fense. However. in the  
othP.r major areas of govern­ 
ment spending, he plans to  
significantly raise expenditures.  
This "new" Democrat plans to  
increase  the  government  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  



s -­
---~----------------­
Accent 
Tuesday, March 2, 1993 page 9 
E-lectrifying E-mail 
Electronic mail provides students with afun, easy way to communicate 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
But there is more to e-mail than just 
sending messages-much more. One of the more popular functions is X-Organization: University of Notre "talk." The "talk" function cannot be Dame 
Accent Writer 
used from Eudora, but is a part of Telnet To: nd/smc.student.5@nd.edu 
of the Andrew File System (AFS). From: Meredith.McCullough.3@nd.edu Anybody who has an Eudora password Subject: E-mail: the Communication 
can use Telnet, but there are no easy-to­Wave of the Future 
use icons, which makes the program a bit more complicated, and a bit harder It used to be only for a select few. It 
to use. used to be that unless you were an 
But it just might be worth learning to engineer or a computer hacker or a 
use. The "talk" function allows two-way twelve-year-old whiz kid, you had to be 
conversation between individuals logged an all-out genius to understand it (or into the sam.:;_ system. even get access to it). 
"The screen ... changes so that there's a But times are changing. 
dashed line in the middle of the screen Electronic mail (e-mail) is quickly 
and anything I type appears on the top becoming the new craze in 
half of my screen, and anything that you communication-thanks to a new and 
type appears on the bottom," explained simplified user-friendly system, a highly 
Doppke. skilled (and very patient) team of Office 
Since this usually works across of University Computing {OUC) staff, and 
universities, many students have foundend within seconds," he said. password, you can go to just about any 
yet another way for e-mail to reduce
an effective mass marketing campaign. 
Junior Phil Eddy was not so sure he machine in any cluster (of the right long-distance phone bills. 
E-mail is not a new concept, according needed e-mail. He was not so sure he platform) and mail away." 
to John Doppke, manager of the "I write to mostly other colleges:
wanted it-that is, until his first The DeBartolo lab is one of the more University of Michigan, Ohio University,DeBartolo Cluster, but it was not until 
experience. popular labs. It is the most advanced, American University, Yale, Dartmouth,second semester last year that Eudora "I was forced to set up this e-mail stuff according to Falcione. The printers and Cornell, Emory University, Bradley,(the nd.edu system) became available to by my friend ... who's in Australia for the computers in Debartolo are five times as Kenyon, Columbia, University of Virginia students. 
semester," he explained. "I figured, hey, fast as any other lab with the exception and just recently to my sister in Aus­
Since then, the number of student 
it's just e-mail. Boy was I wrong. Since of CCMB, the primary Next?Sun lab, he tralia at Wollagong University," saidusers has increased "exponentially," said that first day I have been in love with e­said. 
Pangborn freshman Kathy Daley. "Yes,DeBartolo consultant Mark Falcione. 
mail-and for a while it took over my But Debartolo has its share of I'm addicted." 
"It used to be pretty rare that you'd 
life." drawbacks. 
Eventually everything on campus willsee someone coming into a cluster to do "I lived for the moment that I could "Debartolo's computers are very fast, have a network connection available,
e-mail; now it's quite common," added 
check my mail," Eddy said. but very cold," said Eddy. "They don't according to Doppke.
Doppke. "People are realizing that all Whereas e-mail was limited to only a ev.en tell you that they are looking for "I also know that 'eventually' means atthis technology is at their disposal, and few computers years ago, today you can mail, and when there is none, it is 
least five years, so don't hold your
that they have the ability to use it now e-mail from any OUS computer lab on excruciatingly painful." 
breath. :-) [the e-mail user's smiley
that it's become more user-friendly." 
campus. Carroll Hall junior Christopher 
face]," Doppke said. 
And some people are realizing this "Thanks to the magic of NO's network Alvarado has his own favorite. 
By the way, all interviews for this piece seven or eight times a day. 
backbone, there is pretty much no "I frequent the Sun Spare stations in 
were conducted via e-mail. No vocal
Stanford Hall freshman John Keating difference in e-mail functionality from Fitzpatrick because of the cool and talking took place. 
is one of them. "I am really addicted," he one cluster to the next," said Doppke. sterile environment," said Alvarado. 
To open an e-mail account, take a
said. "It eliminates the need for an an­"Only DeBartolo and Hesburgh "And also because I like to laugh at the blank disk to either the DeBartalo orswering machine, is cheaper than the consultants can give out e-mail poor engineers who have to do real work 
Hesburgh computer labs and ask a
post office, and is received on the other passwords ... but once you have your on these things." 
consultant for assistance. 
'Lorenzo's Oil' is adisturbing story of courage and faith 
during the Odone's seemingly
By PETER BEVACQUA 
Lorenzo•s Oil 
endless quest for an
Film Critic 
understanding of ALD. One
"Lorenzo's Oil" is the true 
Produced By Doug Mitchell 
leaves the theater with an
story of Augusto and Michaela 
and George Miller 
involuntary expertise tale of faith and courage, 
Odone. who in a remarkable 
concerning both the disease successfully battled against 
Directed By George Miller 
and various carbohydrates. In
*** 
addition, the viewer istime and the medical 
(out of five) 
introduced to an array of minor son's life. 
establishment to save their 
characters who are both Augusto Odone (Nick Nolte), a 
former self. insignificant and boring.In the initial stages of the At times the film resembles
native of Italy, is an economist with the World Bank, and his 
film, Miller combines fast­the cinematic dog chasing its paced editing with stirring non­filmic tail about the screen at
wife, Michaela (Susan 
diegetic music (Verdi, Mahler the expense of the audience.
Sarandon), is an Irish­American linguist. 
and Barber) to lend an The strengths of the film are Their son, Lorenzo (Zack intriguing atmosphere to a its startling visual imagery, the narrative which grows tiresome performances the
O'Malley Greenburg), is of main ­
diagnosed as having at future points. characters, and its true-to-life Nick Nolte, the quintessential account of a couple's relentless
Adrenoleukodystrophy 
(ALD)-a relatively unknown Anglo-American male, plays struggle to save the life of their the role of the concerned only son.
affliction for which no 
Italian father quite well. After Miller's work is not as
treatment exists, and which reduces average life 
thirty minutes of bawdy "uplifting" as one might expect. expectancy to no more than gestures and insatiable Indeed, Lorenzo is alive at the two years. gastronomy have finally conclusion of the film (and
concluded, Nolte's portrayal of don't worry, I am not giving
The first hour of the film is very enjoyable. The audience is Augusto Odone approaches anything away), but he is no 
something close to reality. vision of loveliness. 
introduced to the Odone family while they are living in East 
Susan Sarandon is superb, As he lies in bed toward the magnificently portraying the final moments of the film, the
Africa. We follow their travels ever recover from such a melodramatic fluff ... and that,
pain and grief Michaela feels viewer cannot help feelingback to America, and witness traumatic experience. like all tales of human
upon learning that she is the depressed. One is not
the inexplicable transformation "Lorenzo's Oil" is quasi-real suffering, is what makes this
carrier of her son's bizarre astonished by his miraculous
of Lorenzo from a twentieth­life (it has, of course, been boy's story so wonderfully
sickness. recovery, but instead left
century version of Tom Sawyer Hollywood-ized), not disturbing.
"Lorenzo's Oil" drags a bit wondering if this family can
to a lifeless shadow of his 

The Observer Tuesday, March 2, 1993
page 10 
The Boss is back, 
North Carolina becomes sixth No. 1 team 
(AP) North Carolina regained the No. 1 ranking Monday, a place no more special than any of nine others to coach Dean Smith. 
The Tar Heels (24-3) moved from third to first by beating Florida State after Indiana and Kentucky. last week's 1-2, each lost a road game. It is the first time North Carolina has been No. I since early in the 1987-88 season. 
"Polls don't really mean anything until the linal poll at the end of the year," Smith said. "Then. if you finish in the Top Ten, that means you had an excellent season." 
Smith's teams have been no strangers to the Top Ten at season's end. Last year's No. 18 lin ish ended a string of 10 of 11 years with a Top Ten final ranking. Twice, in 1982 and 1984, the Tar Heels were No. 1 in the final poll. 
"Our sport's champion is de­termined by the NCAA tour­nament. but still it is nice to be in the Top Ten at the end of the season," he said. 
North Carolina received 49 first-place votes and 1,600 points from the nationwide panel of writers and broadcast­ers to easily outdistance Indi­ana (25-3), which had eight first-place votes and 1,517 points. The Hoosiers, who have played three games without in­jured forward Alan Henderson, had been No. 1 for four weeks until losing at Ohio State in overtime to snap a 13-game winning streak. 
Arizona (21-2), which has the nation's longest current win­ning streak at 19 games, and Michigan (22-4) each moved up one spot to third and fourth. The Wildcats, working on a perfect Pac-1 0 season, were No. 

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) -The Boss is back. 
With an airplane overhead heralding his return and fans in the stands early for his arrival, George 
!.t:1i~:Je~~~~ (·'··.'.:.·:"' ~:~ 
mto baseball ; .~ J today. ·\,, Steinbrenner's }o/J;;,}.,,., 
2 112-year "'' . 


s us pens i o n Steinbrenner ended at midnight and at 10:30 a.m. EST he strode through the front gate at the New York Yankees' spring training camp, surrounded by a several hundred reporters and two­dozen camera crews. 
"It makes me feel good. I'd rather get shoved around a lit­tle bit than have no one here," the New York Yankees owner said. 
The Yankees, meanwhile, braced for his return. Players and staff have spent the last week saying all the right things, saying -whether they meant it or not they thought Steinbrenner's presence would help them return to winning ways. 
While Steinbrenner's return certainly creates excitement, it may not be the kind of commo­tion the Yankees -or baseball 1 on five ballots, while the Hall. 
-wants. 

Wolverines, who have lost half North Carolina becomes the 
"There will be some differ­
their games this season to In­sixth team to hold the No. 1 ences," Steinbrenner said. "In diana, received three first-place ranking this season, joining many ways, it will be different votes. Kentucky (21-3), which Michigan, Duke, Kentucky, and I'll be different." 
lost at Tennessee the day after Kansas and Indiana, matching 
Steinbrenner has pledged to 
Indiana lost, dropped three the number that did it in 1989­be more patient with his players places to fifth. 90. Since 1980, the most teams and be more understanding of Duke jumped from ninth to to hold the top spot in one sea­
their failures. That, though,
sixth and was followed by Van­son were the seven that did it in remains to be seen. 
derbilt, Kansas, Utah and Seton 1982-83. 
"I've been waiting 2 1/2 years 
pledging to be patient 
for this opporunity," Stein­brenner said shortly after mid­night. 
Steinbrenner and longtime friend Tom McEwen, a sports columnist for The Tampa Tri­bune, flew in Steinbrenner's private jet to an airfield about a quarter-mile from the Yankees' camp at Fort Lauderdale Sta­dium. The two walked alone without fanfare for 10 minutes and got within 20 yards of the gate before being spotted. 
Instantly, many reporters ­wearing special credentials reading "The Boss is Back" ­stampeded toward him. In the next 45 minutes, Steinbrenner moved less than 25 yards as he answered questions. 
"I never really thought about the day I'd come back, but I'm just glad to come back," he said. 
A half-hour before Steinbren­ner's arrival, a small plane cir­cled trailing a sign reading "Welcome Home George." In­side the stadium where fans were admitted free for the workout, there were more signs cheering his return. 
A loud mixture of applause and boos greated Steinbrenner when he finally made his way onto the field. 
Steinbrenner's return comes 17 years to the day that he came back from his first sus­pension, a 15-month penalty imposed by Bowie Kuhn for making illegal campaign con­tributions to Hichard Nixon and other politicians. Steinbrenner's return this time comes on the same day that Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott begins serving her one-year sus­pension for making racist and ethnic slurs. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
~-N_O_T_IC__ES__~I  ~~--W_A__NT_E_D__~  Help! Need ride to Mpls/St. Paul for Spring Break! I'll help pay tolls/gas  SHORT ON CASH? Borrow from the  ...SPRING BREAK LOANs••• From the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  To the Awesome Grace Hockey team and all the  
- TYPING 256·6657 Dissertations, Theses. Term Papers Word Works Typing Service 277·7406 GRE TUTOR TOM 288-6578 Eat the GRE for lunch!!l ILOST & FOUND I BIG REWARD!!! Lost: light brown leather jacket. AND ....... Do you have my mom's black, metallic· like ski jacket? I might have your missing jacket. Lost a week before Christmas break . Call Erin x4717 LOST: Pair of sliver wire­rimmed glasses (I have no idea where). I need them for class and to drivel If found, call Bill at x1307. Lost: REX'S KEYS .41613  Adoption-Active, Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1-800·682·8628. SOCCER Goalkeeper Coach wanted for H.S. level team. Call 277-4791 for details. I'm a-going to Disney World! Actually. I am going home to Orlando. the City Beautiful, home of much more than Shaq and Mickey, for Spring Break. I've got some room, too. Join me. Call toll-free 273-0895, and ask for Ro. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn $2,000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 1·206·634·0468 ext. C5584. Need ride for Spring Break to Binghamton, NY or area-Ithaca, Syracuse. Scranton... X3624 50,000,000 babies  Call Marty 41206 I NEED A RIDE TO THE COLUMBUS AREA 3/3/ OR FOR RENT 3/4 GAS & TOLLS x5022 MITZI BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. 219-291-7153. 6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. AVAIL. NOW, SUMMER, OR FALL.272-6306 Roomate for next year needed for Castle Point apartment. Call 273-9644 for more info. FOR SALE STEREO FOR SALE. Dual cassette recorder, turntable. am/fm radio, graphic equalizer. Good condition. Needs speakers. $200. Call Sandy at 233-2407.  MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 30 day loans Up to $250 @ 1% interest Monday -Friday 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge HELPIHELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! HELP I Desperate female seeking ride to D.C. area for spring break. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Leah @ 284-4308 and leave message. Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN 46615, or call Pager #282· 7042 . Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232· 5843. Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  30 Day Loans Up to $250 @1% Interest Monday · Friday 11:30.12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge SOUTH PADRE, OWNER DISCOUNT, BEACHFRONT, RADISSON RESORT, PARTIES, CONTESTS. SLEEPS 6-8 AND MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA HOUSE, SLEEPS 4-6. $750. WK. 212-472-1414. BID SALES for SENIOR FORMAL are March 1·3! Grab a date and buy your ticket! ($60 per couple). DISMAS HOUSE will have a table set up in the library concourse on Tuesday March 2 for anyone interested in information.  rowdy men of Grace: Amazing Grace, How sweet the score That killed Alumni zero to Four! Congratulations, guys! Repeat in '94! PUCKer up! Luv the gals in green. Heidi Mo, Heidi Ho, Cynderoo and Kathy, too............,...................... WOMEN SHOULD BE IN THE IRISH GUARD. What do you think? x1188 LOR REI-here I am · but I never got the picture. I want my $2. -snap-a-scam-man. TOP TEN FROM THE BLUE  
LOST: Black Book Bag at SDH During Lunch 2/26­Piease Help-DESPERATELY Need Notes For Exams-No Questions Asked-Call Tim x3372 $$$Reward$$$-Help me find my gold Monet watch. It has a stone in  NEED ride to Daytona beach 4 break w/some girls. HELP erica #2206 I NEED A RIDE TO NJ OR NY FOR BREAK. PLEASE CALL TIM 634·1012  MUSTANG -83, 2.3L engine,AM/FM stereo, automatic transmission, New parts: Battery, Starter, Alternator, pwr steering. 1100$ or best offer,#631 5608(Day) Ragnar,or 2725740(home) Blue ND hooded "Victory" jacket w/ IRISH on back. Brand new, I just  make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. · (212)369·2597.  Hi Mom & Dad Hutchinson! I miss you! Love your Deut-Deut CANCUN FOR $991 Roundtrip airfare $99, complete packages from $199! Call STS@ 1-800·648· 4849.  ROOM: 10. Finish that drink, Mr. President. 9. The true purpose of Jenga according to Jeff-knock 'em all over. 8. Here, have a beer. No, really. Take one. 7. Booted for being good. Now, that's a new one.  
each of the links. Lost Fri. 2/26 between NDH, Keenan & Lewis.  #$%A@&#• •(&"!@ &(•&%!($•  need the cash. Costs $70 at bookstore. I'll take $50 or best  Student Activities is now hiring students for the 1993-94 academic  6. The Knight vs. the Lady-the saga continues.  
Call Alliex4120  HELP!!  offer.  ADOPTION: A loving happy home,  year.  Positions a~~ailable as  5. Wait a minute, Red's ticklish.  
Call John at x1160  financial security, and educational  Building Managers, Sound Tachs,  4. Chad, meet the ground. Ground,  
Black hat left in room 207 of O'Shaughnessy Hall on Thursday, February 25. Please call Sr. Kathleen Cannon. O.P. at 631·5812.  Girls need Break ride(s) to DC Area or 2 hr. radius. Leave anytime-Call now 4758, 4721  PERSONAL  opportunities await your newborn. We can help with your expenses. Please call us collect: David and Rosemary (919) 288·4490 Let's  Room Monitors, Stepan Managers, Set Up Crew, Information Desk & Games Room Attendants. and more. Stop by 315 LaFortune to  meet Chad. 3. Hey, guys. It looks like the TV commercials. 2. NO, REALLY! TAKE ONEil  
("&%$#@1#@$%$.&%.%$#(  I what wuv you  help each other.  pick up an application.Deadline for applying is Friday, March 19.  1. Where are the girls?  

Tuesday, March 2, 1993 The Observer page 11 
Iii& ............... •••••• ••••••• •••••• ••••• ••••• •••••• ...... 
It~ r~~

.~ ••"'·)· 0 ..,;; , : . : . : :: :! : ! : :: :: :: : 0 .
~ "~ ..... • • • ...... ...... ...... • • ....... ...... • • "'il < ..... 11; c:> ~ '-~ • , :: '•a : : :: :: :: '•, : : ~~:4_~~'y}) ~Jj• ~
r :: :
..... ..... ..... . . ....... ...... ..... . . . . ....... 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
w L Pet GB New York 36 18 .007 New Jersey 31 24 .564 51/2 Boston 29 26 .527 71/2 Orlando 26 25 .510 81/2 Miami 21 32 .396 14 1/2 Philadelphia 19 33 .365 16 Washington 16 38 .296 20 Central Division Chicago 38 17 .691 Cleveland 37 19 .001 1 1/2 Charlotte 28 25 .528 9 Atlanta 26 29 .473 12 Indiana 26 29 .473 12 Detroit 24 30 .444 131/2 Milwaukee 21 34 .382 17 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division 
w L Pet GB San Antonio 35 18 .660 Houston 33 21 .611 21/2 Utah 33 22 .600 3 Denver 22 32 .407 131/2 Minnesota 13 38 .255 21 Dallas 4 48 .on 301/2 Pacific Division Phoenix 40 12 .769 Saattle 37 17 .685 4 Portland 32 19 .629 71/2 LA Lakers 28 24 .538 12 LA Clippers 28 26 .519 13 Golden State 24 32 . 429 18 Sacramento 18 37 .327 231/2 
Sunday's Gemea New Jersey 102, New York 76 Indiana 110, Dallas 96 San Antonio 94, Orlando 90 Cleveland 1 01, Phoenix 94 Miami 105, Minnesota 93 Boston 122, Portland 110 Denver 11 0, Charlotte 1 03 LA Lakers 124, LA Clippers 112 
Monday's Gemea 
Late Games Not Included Detroit 99, Boston 95 Charlotte at Utah, (n) Philadelphia at Golden State, (n) 
Tuesday's Games Atlanta at New York, 7:30p.m. Minnesota at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. San Antonio at Indiana, 7:30p.m. Chicago at New Jersey, 8 p.m. Dallas at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. LA Lakers at Denver, 9 p.m. Cleveland at Seattle, 10 p.m. Houston at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Phoenix at Portland, 10:30 p.m. 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Petrick Dlvlalon 
w L T Pis GF GA 
Pittsburgh 39 19 6 84 260 206 
Washington 32 24 6 70 256 223 
New Jersey 31 26 5 67 224 219 
NY Rangers 28 25 10 66 245 234 
NY Islanders 29 28 6 64 259 231 
Philadelphia 22 30 11 55 241 251 
Adema Division 
x-Montreal 41 19 6 88 275 214 
Quebec 35 20 9 79 266 232 
Boston 33 23 7 73 250 224 
Buffalo 31 24 7 69 272 227 
Hart1ord 17 41 4 38 206 283 
Ottawa 9 53 4 22 157 312 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norris Division 
w L T Pis GF GA Chicago 36 21 8 80 224 180 Detroit 33 24 9 75 280 229 Toronto 32 22 9 73 221 184 Minnesota 30 25 9 69 224 219 St. Louis 29. 29 8 66 223 228 Tampa Bay 19 40 5 43 190 241 Smythe Division Vancouver 35 19 8 78 265 197 Calgary 33 21 10 76 254 217 Winnipeg 28 29 6 62 237 246 Los Angeles 27 29 7 61 246 268 Edmonton 23 34 8 54 186 245 San Jose 8 55 2 18 172 323 
x-clinched playoff berth. 
Sunday's Games 
Pittsburgh 4, Washington 2 
New York Islanders 7, Hart1ord 6, OT 
Ottawa 6, Quebec 4 
New Jersey 6, Detroit 3 
Edmonton 4, San Jose 1 
Winnipeg 7, Minnesota 6 
St. Louis 7, Chicago 1 
Monday's Gemea Late Game Not Included 
Montreal 5, Boston 2 
Vancouver vs. Buffalo at Hamilton, Ontario, (n) Tuesday's Gemea 
Detroit at New York Islanders, 7:40 p.m. 
Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, 7:40p.m. 
Vancouver at Washington, 7:40p.m. 
Quebec at Winnipeg, 8:40p.m. 
Ottawa at San Jose, 10:40 p.m. 
Calgary at Los Angeles, 10:40 p.m. Wednesday's Games 
New Jersey at Hart1ord, 7:40p.m. 
Buffalo at New York Rangers, 7:40p.m. 
Montreal at Tampa Bay, 7:40p.m. 
Minnesota at Toronto, 7:40p.m. 
Department of Music presents 
American Composer 
Lukas Foss 
In Concert 
with con tempo, Notre Dame's contemporary chamber music ensemble, and guest artists 
including works by: Foss, Haimo and Colgrass 
Tues, March 2, Spm, Washington Hall 
Tickets: $5, $2 students/seniors; call631-8128 
SAN DIEGO PADRES--Signed Craig Ship­NHL STATS ley, shortstop and nm Worrell, pitcher. BASKETBALL NHL Scoring Leaders 
National Basketball Aaeocletlon NEW YORK (AP)-NHL 
NBA-Fined Charlotte center Alonzo scoring leaders through Feb. 28: 
Mourning $3,500 for hitting Indiana's Rik Player, Team GP G A PTS PIM 
_Smits during a game on Feb. 26. LaFontaine, But 62 41 73 114 53 
NEW JERSEY NETs-Placed Kenny An­Lemieux, Pgh 40 39 65 104 28 
derson, guard, on the injured list. Activated Oates, 8os 62 36 67 103 28 
Maurice Cheeks, guard, from the injured list. Yzerman, Det 66 47 53 100 32 
Continental Beeketbell Association Turgeon, NYI 62 41 59 100 26 
LA CROSSE CATBIRD$-Signed Doug Gilmour, Tor 63 24 75 99 66 
Lee, guard. Mogilny, But 55 63 34 97 32 
OKLAHOMA CITY CAVALRY-SignedRecchi, Pha 63 39 58 97 58 
Darryl Kennedy, forward. Salanne, Wpg 63 51 40 91 39 
QUAD CITY THUNDER-Activated Mark Janney, StL 66 17 70 87 10 Brisker, guard. Placed Tim Anderson, for­Bure, Van 62 49 37 86 38 
ward, on the NBA reserve list. Stevens, Pgh 55 46 40 86 125 
FOOTBALL Hull, StL 66 45 41 86 35 
National Football LeagueRobitaille, LA 63 40 45 85 78 
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Signed Clarence Sundin, Que 61 33 51 84 67 
Verdin, wide receiver-kick returner. 
Muller, Mtl 64 32 51 83 69 HOCKJ;YRoenick, Chi 65 34 48 82 76 National Hockey LeagueDamphousse, Mtl 65 32 49 81 62 NHL-Announced franchises in Anaheim,Sakic, Que 58 41 39 80 30 Calif., and South Florida will begin play in the Fleury, Cal 64 26 53 79 56 1993-94 season. The South Florida fran­
Andreychuk, Tor 63 40 37 77 52 chise named Bob Clarke vica president and Roberts, Cal 57 37 40 77 172 general manager. 
Juneau, Bos 62 24 53 77 29 
LOS ANGELES KINGs-Recalled Darryl Williams, left wing, and Brandy Semchuk,
TRANSACTIONS 
right wing, from Phoenix of International Hockey League. 
BASEBALL SAN JOSE SHARKs-Sent Wade Fla­
American League herty, goaltender, and Jaroslav Otevrel, left
BALTIMORE ORIOLEs-Promoted Mitch wing, to Kansas City of the IHL. 
Bibb, trainer with Frederick of the Carolina East Coaet Hockey League
league, to Bowie of the Eastern League. LOUISVILLE ICEHAWK$-Piaced Mark
MILWAUKEE BREWERs-signed Mike Holick, right wing, on the 30-day injured re­
Fetters and Chris George, pitchers; Dave Nilsson, catcher, and John Jaha, first serve list. OLYMPICS
baseman. USA BASKETBALL-Named Kansas
SEATTL'E MARINERs-Signed Tino Martinez, first baseman; Bill Haselman, 
coach Roy Williams coach of the men's un­catcher, and Rich Amaral, infielder. 
der-22 team. COLLEGE
TEXAS RANGERs-Named John Ralph assistant director of publicity. 
BALL STATE-Named Kit Cartwright foot­National League 
ball offensive coordinator. LOS ANGELES DODGERs-Agreed to 
CAL STATE NORTHRIDGE-Announced terms with Henry Rodriguez and Raul Mon­its football program will move from Division II desi, outfielders; Jose Offerman, shortstop, 
to Division 1-AA. and Mike James, pitcher. on one-year con­
DELAWARE-Announced the resignation tracts. Mary Beth' Holder, field hockey and lacrosse 
MONTREAL EXPOs-Agreed to terms coach, at the end of the lacrosse season. with Mel Rojas and John Wetteland, pitcher, EDINBORO--Fired Greg Walcavich, bas­on one-year contracts. Signed Pete Young, ketball coach. Archie Corbin, Joey Eischen, Gil Heredia, NEVADA-Announced the contract of Len Jonathan Hurst and Len Picota, pitchers; 
Stevens, men's basketball coach, will not be Darrin Fletcher, Tim Laker and Tim Spahr, renewed for the 1993-94 season. catchers, and Saan Barry, Mike Lansing and N.C.-ASHEVILLE-Announced the resig­Lee Stevens, infielders. 
nation at Don Doucette, men's basketball ST. LOUIS CARDINALs-Agreed to terms coach, effective at the end of the season. with Rod Brewer, 11tst baseman-outfielder. OHIO STATE-Named Larry Coker de­fensive becks coach. 
SCHEDULE 
Monday's Games No. 16 UNLVat New Mexico State, 12 mid No. 17 New Orleans at Arkansas State, 8 
p.m. No. 19 Oklahoma State at Oklahoma, 9:30 p.m. No. 23 Massachusetts vs. St. Bonaventure, 7p.m. 
No. 25 St. John's vs. Syracuse at Madison Square Garden, 7:30p.m. Tuesday's Gemea 
No.4 Michigan vs. No. 151owa, 7:30p.m. No.7 Vanderbilt vs. Tennessee, 9:30p.m. Wednesday's Games No. 1 North Carolina vs. No. 14 Wake 
Forest, 7 p.m. No. 5 Kentucky at Mississippi, 8 p.m. No. 6 Duke vs. Maryland, 9 p.m. No. 8 Kansas vs. Nebraska, 8:30 p.m. No. 1 0 Seton Hall vs. Boston College at the 
Meadowlands, 9 p.m. No. 13 Arkansas vs. LSU, 8 p.m. No. 24 Purdue at Michigan State, 8 p.m . 
Thursday's Gemea No. 2 Indiana vs. Northwestern, 8 p.m. No. 3 Arizona vs. California at Oakland 
Coliseum, 12 mid No. 9 Utah at New Mexico, 9:30 p.m. No. 11 Florida State at Georgia Tech, 7 
p.m. No. 16 UNLV at UC Irvine, 10:30 p.m. No. 18 Xaviar, Ohio at La Salle, 7:30p.m. No. 19 Oklahoma State vs. Oral Roberts, 
8:30p.m . No. 20 Tulane vs. Virginia Commonwealth, 8p.m. No. 21 Brigham Young at Texas-EI Paso, 
9:30p.m. No. 22 Louisville vs. Virginia Tech, 8 p.m. No. 23 Massachusetts vs. St. Joseph's, 7 
p.m. Saturday's Games No. 7 Vanderbilt at South Carolina, 7:30 
p.m. No. 9 Utah at Texas-EI Paso, 12 mid No. 10 Seton Hall vs. No. 25 St. John's at 
the Meadowlands, 2 p.m. No. 12 Cincinnati vs. Memphis State, 9:30 
p.m. No. 13 Arkansas at Auburn, 2:30 p.m. No. 14 Wake Forestvs. N.C. State, 1:30 
p.m. No. 151owa at No. 24 Purdue, 1 p.m. No. 16 UNLV at Cal State-Fullerton, 10:30 
p.m. No. 17 New Orleans in Sun Belt 
Conference tournament, TBA No. 18 Xaviar, Ohio at Duquesne, 4 p.m. No. 20 Tulane vs. South Florida, 4 p.m. No. 21 Brigham Young at New Mexico, 
9:30p.m. 

server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
LoADED'WEAPON I (PG13) 5115, 7:10, 10:00 .<)GiMACIE (Rl
.uo. 7:00..il:~ 
Assistant Systems Manager
OflouNDitoa UAY (PO) 4:145, 7:15, 9:145 
Applicants should have Apple Macintosh and computer networking experience. Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Patrick 
Barth by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 3. Contact Patrick at 1-7471 for more information.
Spring Break 
God gives each Loan 
peiSOn one lifetime. What are you
• $300 minimum, $300 maximum 
• Deferred payments 
doffig withyours?
• 9.3% APR 
• Students with good credit or no credit qualify 
Have you considered 
No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the 
"Good For You" 
0 
. University of Notr.e Dame for college graduates mterested m explonng the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship :tssistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S_C.
NOTRE DAME 
Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
. 239-6611 
(219) 239-6385 
Independent of the University 

~~--~----·--------------~--~------------------~----------~-----.----------------~~~-----~--~--~------~~--~--------~,~~ 
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, March 2, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Seattle signs Kemp through 2002 
lnterhall f oor hockey referees are needed. Anyone interested should call the ReeSports office at 631-6100. 
SEATTLE (AP) -Shawn was underpaid and this gives us six-year contract. The extension ND/SMC women's lacrosse club will have practice on 
Kemp, the Seattle SuperSonics the opportunity to correct the means he is signed for the Sundays from 8-9 p.m. at Loftus. If you want shorts, they are $9 
All-Star forward-center, has situation, and at the same time remainder of this season, plus with a check payable to ND/SMC women's lacrosse. If you want 
signed a seven-year contact make a long-term commitment nine more. shorts and you can't make the meeting. call Christy at 634-2695 
extension that will keep him to each other. We're looking by WednPsday. 
under contract through the forward to many more All-Star This season he is racking up 2001-2002 season, the club seasons from Shawn," Whitsitt career highs in points (18.6),
Cross country ski rental is available in the Rockne Golf Shop. 
announced Monday. said. rebounds (10.6), steals (1.65),
Check out times are 4:30-5:30 p.m. on Thursday, Friday, and Financial terms were not dis­''I'm glad the Sonies appreci­assists (1.9) and minutes (34.7). 
Saturday and 12-1 p.m. on Saturday. Check in times are 4:30-5:30 closed. ate what I've done this season, Western Conference coaches p.m. Friday, Saturday and Sunday and 12-1 on Saturday. Call the "Shawn has worked very hard and they understand that I can recently voted him to his firstGolf Shop at 631-6425 with questions. 
and made stremendous strides contribute to the team for a NBA All-Star game. Earlier this in the past 3 1/2 years," Sonics long time," Kemp said. season. he became the first
Sign-ups for interhall men's and women's soccer and men's and womtm's 12" softball, campus soccer and co-ree indoor soccer, 
president Bob Whitsitt said. Kemp, 23, who joined the NBA Sonic since 1989 named Player and grtul!fac/staff softball are due by March 3 in the RecSports 
"We recognized that Shawn at 19, is in the fourth year of a of the Week. office. 
I RecSports women's safety and self-defense classes are J lLIEN1l'!BN IFA\ telU'lL'Iflf mIE'IflRlB.A\'If beginning March 16 from 5-6:10 p.m. at Rockne Memorial. Call 631-6100 for more information. 
For Single and Married Notre Dame and St. Mary's Faculty and Spouses 
Late Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be March 2-3 from 6-9 p.m. and March 4 from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. in SUB office for a $10 
Friday, March 19 Saturday, March 20 fee. 
8:00p.m. 9:00p.m. 
Aikido Club will have practice from 6-8 p.m. on Monday and 
A time of rp4icl and ptrsot!al reflection, the retreat will include opportunity for
Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. on Friday in 219 Rockne. Beginners are 
shared refl.ction on the biblical texts for the Sundays of unl.
weleome. 
Offered by: David Burrell, C.S.C. and john Gerber, C.S.C. 
NO Ski Club will have a madatory meeting on March 3 in 120 Hayes-Healey at 7 p.m. for all those going on the trip to 
Place: Mary's Solitude on the St. Mary's College Campus 
Steamboat. T-shirts will be distributed at that time. If' you have 
Cost: $35.00 per person, three Saturday meals included. 
questions. call Chris Boone at 273-2958. 
RESERVATIONS ARE REQUESTED BY MARCH 5, BUT WILL BE ACCEPTED UNTIL MARCH 18. 
SportsTalk welcomes Bengal Bouts champion Lou Hall at 8 
Conlacl Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Graduate Re:r;idencts 631-8606 
p.m. on WVFI 640AM. Call in with questions and comments at 
or Sharon at Fischer Community Center631-8607. 
631-6400. 
Bulls facing toughest foe: 
. . . 
InJUrieS 
CHICAGO (AP)-The Chicago Bulls are fighting an enemy relatively unfamiliar to them ­injuries. 
The two-time NBA champions find themselves with starters Bill Cartwright and John Pax­son out. A number Of other 
players are sporting bumps, bruises or swellings, most no­tably Michael Jordan's sprained ankle. 
"We've never been in this sit­uation before. where we had two or three guys that have been down who are starters and we had to bring people in," coach Phil Jackson said Mon­day. "We just go with what we have to go with and patch our team up as well as we can." 
Most recently, they acquired Ed Nealy in a trade with Golden State last Wednesday. 
"I know I'm not going to come in here and take anybody's time away from them," said Nealy. ''I'm going to have to earn it, but hopefully that will make them work that much harder to keep their time." 
Trent Tucker, who shot 9 for 9 in the Bulls' 112-92 win over Atlanta on Saturday, seems se­cure. 
.. 
c;ates 'Tbyota 
20% off to all students and faculty when seryicing your Toyota at Gates Toyota Service Department. 
Shuttle Bus available to Notre Dame and University Park Mall. 
Call237-4005 
Oil Changes for just $20.55 
"/ /m.re whatyou dojJrme." 
@TOYOTA 

E
very year, a lot of people make a money you don't send to Washington huge mistake on their taxes. They works even harder for you. Down the don't take advantage of tax deferral and road, that can make a dramatic difference wind up sending Uncle Sam money they in your quality oflife. could be saving for retirement. What else makes SRAs so special? 
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can A range ofallocation choices-from the easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. guaranteed security of TIAA to the SRAs not only ease your current tax­diversified investment accounts of bite, they offer a remarkably easy way CREF's variable annuity-all backed to build retirement income-especially by the nation's number one retirement for the "extras" that your regular pension system. and Social Security benefits may not Why write off the chance for a more cover. Because your contributions are rewarding retirement? Call today and made in before-tax dollars, you pay less learn more about how TIAA-CREF taxes now. And since all earnings on SRAs can help you enjoy many your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the happy returns. 
Benefit now.from t1uc tleferrwl. Cllll uur SRA botline 1 800-842-2733, ua. 8016. 

75 years ofensuring the future for those who shape it:" 
CREF urtifu:aJu art Ji.ttrilndtd by TIAA·CREF lndi•id~~.a/ and ln.~tiJutiuNtl Smicu. For mort compktt informatiun, inciJ.ding cbargu and txptnJtJ, co./1!800.842.27JJ, txt. 8016 for a prwpte/u.r. Rtlld tbt prwptclu.r <artfully btfor< you in•ut or Stnd monty. 

Tuesday, March 2, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Doubtful Dunston gives Sanchez hope 
MESA, Ariz. (AP) -Doubts about how healthy Chicago Cubs shortstop Shawon Dun­ston will be this season are providing an opportunity for newcomer Rey Sanchez. 
Sanchez sparkled in the field for the Cubs last summer, playing 7 4 games and giving Chicago some solid defense. 
But he says he isn't taking anything for granted and still isn't counting Dunston out. 
"I can't worry about that kind of stuff," Sanchez said. "Whatever happens, happens. I only know I'm healthy and I'm ready to play. That's all that matters to me right now. Those other things I can't control. 
''I'm not competing with Shawon. If they want him and he's healthy, then he will play. I don't feel like they owe me anything. I will take whatever they give me. Whatever they tell me to do, I will do." 
Sanchez suffered from a bulging disc last summer, but did not have to undergo surgery. Dunston did have surgery for a herniated disc, and is still hurting. 
"I respect Shawon a lot," Sanchez said. "Give the man credit. He's played a long time and he's an all-star. He's not looking over his shoulder. I admire Shawon. 
He's a great player. 
"You have to make a name for yourself in this game and you don't do that until you've played for a while. Until then, you just play ball and wait your turn. I don't feel like I've accomplished anything yet." 
"Shawon is experiencing pain and we are concerned about his morale. He's never been hurt before and he's frustrated," Cubs manager Jim Lefebvre said. "We just have to let nature take its course. 
"He's just frustrated. But I want to see him smile. When he smiles, the whole team lights up." 
vI s I 0  N s 0  F  PA R I s  :  
Summer Programs , 993  
lntersession : May 24-June 11  
Summer Session :June 14-July 23  
1  More than SO regular offerings from the University's liberal arts curriculum.  
•  1  A three-week French-language Immersion program, featuring cultural walking tours and conversation classes.  
1  Weekend excursions : Normandy, Champagne, Loire Vailey chateaux,  
Burgundy,Giverny and Chartres.  
1  Seminar tours with the University of Texas, the University of  
New Hampshire and the University of california at Berkeley.  
Also, two new French Immersion Sessions:  •  
I  Summer '94 in Biarritz  I  Winter '94 in Paris  
Send for our 1993 Summer Programs Brochure :  
The American University of Paris  
Summer Programs I U.S. Office  
80 East 11th Street, Suite 434  
New York, New York 10003  
12)677-4870 • Fax 1212)475-520  

Undergraduate Clubs: 
Rem.em.ber, registration and budget packets are due 
by March 3rd at 5 p.m.., in the Club Coordination Council Office (206 LaFortune). 
Any Questions or problems ­call the CCC at 631-4078 or stop by during posted office hours! 
Men's Tennis Upcoming Matches 
Notre Dame vs. Midwest Power Indiana Wednesday, March 3 3:15@ Eck Tennis Pavillion 
Other Games : 
Date  Opponent  Rank  
*March 6  Pepperdine  # 4  
*March 7  Tennessee  # 17  
*March 8  Arizona St.  # 25  

* Games played in Tempe. Arizona 
Tennis 
continued from p. 16 
have noted. 
"This definitely gets our con-· fidence up a little higher, "noted Schmidt, "When you lose some matches against higher ranked teams, it's good to have matches like these. It lets you know you're not as bad as you think you are." 
This weekend's boost came at an excellent time for the Irish, for after they face Indiana on Wednesday they will travel to Tempe, Arizona on spring break to continue their murderous slate. 
They will face #4 Pepperdine on March 6 and #17 Tennessee on March 7, before meeting #25 Arizona State on March 8. 
"We know that's the way it's going to be," said Bayliss. "It's going to stay that way, but 
we're pretty upbeat and work­
The Observer/Chris Mullin 

ing hard." 
Can Quinn Buckner make the Mavericks winners? 
DALLAS (AP)-Quinn Buck­ner was a winner as a player at Indiana University and with the Milwaukee Bucks and Boston Celtics. 
Winning will be an imposing task if he takes on another challenge -coach of the Dallas Mavericks. 
Team sources have told The Dallas Morning News that the Mavericks will offer a coaching ~ob to Buckner, who has no coaching experience. Club offi­cials have said they are confi­dent he'll accept. 
The Mavericks want to hire Buckner before the end of the season so he can be on board for the June 30 draft, the newspaper reported Sunday. 
But the 38-year-old Buckner, now an NBA analyst for NBC, would not take over as coach until next season, the sources said. That would leave interim coach Gar Heard in charge for the rest of this season. 
The Mavericks were 4-48 after Sunday's 110-96 loss to Indiana, and are on pace to fin­ish with the worst record in NBA history. Dallas won one game in November, one in De­cember, one in January and one in February. 
Buckner emphasized Satur­day that he has not yet been of­fered the job. 
"I don't know if I will be of­fered the job this week. We'll see what happens. I don't speculate on anything that hasn't happened," Buckner said. "But I am interested, and I'm still listening." 
A source, insisting on anonymity, said Mavericks owner Don Carter "is definitely leading toward hiring Buck­ner." He added, "This week we're going to work out the de­tails of the contract." 
Another team source told The Morning News: "We want to get Quinn named this week. We're planning on offering him the job, announcing it and getting this all taken care of. That's how far along this is." 
Mavericks vice president Rick Sund said, "I'm hoping to get our coach named this week." 
Buckner is one of a handful of players who have won an NCAA championship, NBA title and Olympic gold medal. He was captain of Indiana's 1976 NCAA championship· team, played on the U.S. gold medal team at the 1976 Olympics, and was with the Celtics wnen they won the 1984 NBA title. 
He has been Sund's No. 1 choice since Richie Adubato was fired on Jan. 13. 
Buckner and Sund have are. lationship dating back 17 years, to when Buckner was a rookie in Milwaukee and Sund was a member of the Bucks' front office. 
Buckner reportedly is insist­ing on a four-year deal to take over the Mavericks. 
SlAMMER 
5TOR.AaE 
Call Fo~ Rese~vatioJI\ Mas+e~ Mini Wa~ehouse 683-1959 (Afte~ 5: 684-0285) 
.­
-
.... 
----~ 
~----------~~­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, March 2, 1993 
Postseason begins on a high note for Notre Dame's fencers 
.-.. 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing squad roared into the postsea­son with a first place finish at the Midwest Intercollegiate Championships at Mir.higan State Saturday. 
The Irish finished in the top two spots in all four weapons, collecting 500 points while their closest competitor. Ohio State linislwd with 425 points. 
"This was a llmm e!Tort all the way." remarked men's head coach Mikt~ DeCicco. "We took giant steps towards our goal in all four weapons." 
As expected. the foil squad performed well, tying Illinois for first place by collecting 120 points. Senior captain Jeff Piper, who was undefeated against midwestern opponents during the dual-meet season. won the individual foil competi­tion. Foilists Jordan Maggio, Stan Brunner. and Hian Girard finished fifth, ninth, and eleventh, respe<~tively. 
The sabrernen scored 112 points, just thn~e short of Ohio State. as they were led by fifth 

ns bombs Syracuse 
NEW YOHK (AP)-St. John's, piekcd for next-to-last in the Big East bPforP the SIHLson started, guaranteed itself no worse than a second-place fin­ish wilh a 90-70 victory over Syracuse on Monday night. 
Shawnelle Scott. who had been hampered by an ankle injury. led No. 25 St. John's (17 -8. 12-5) with 20 points and 10 robuunds, eight on the of­fensive boards. Lawrence Moten led Syracuse (17-8. 9­8), which had won three straight. with 20 points. 
St. John's finished in a three­way tie for first with Seton Hall and Georgetown last season. But the graduation of four starters and the retirement o Hall of Fame coach Lou Car­nesecca didn't bode well for the Hedrnen this season, and the league's eoaches pieked them ninth in a preseason poll. 
The Redmen will play first­plaee Seton Hall (12-4) on Sat­urday. 
The victory over Syracuse came easy for the Hedmen, who took a 28-13 lead thanks to a 20-0 run. The Orangemen never were closer than ·nine points in the second half. sus­taining their worst loss this season. 
This was the first time in seven meetings between the teams that the final margin was more than seven points. and it was St. John's biggest win over Syraeuse since a 100­78 victory in 1976. 
Lamont Middleton added 18 points and Sergio Luyk 14 for St. John's. David Cain had seven points and 10 assists. 
Conrad McHaH and Mike Hopkins added 14 points apiece for Syracuse. 

Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of Saint Mary's 
'272-7510 
place-finisher senior Bernie Baez. Sophomore Chris Mc­Quade turned in a strong per­formance taking seventh, and fellow sophomore Chris Hajnick took ninth. 
The epee squad followed the lead of the foilists by tying Illi­nois for first place with 116 points. Senior Geoff Pechinsky led all Notre Dame epeeists. Grzegorz Wozniak, who led the Irish all season, placed fifth. 
The women's team con­tributed 152 points, edging Ohio State by two. The victory over Ohio State avenged a 12-4 loss suffered earlier this season. Freshman Claudette deBruin took a third place finish as the 



a 

Irish's top individual. Senior Kathleen Vogt placed fifth, junior Kimberly Arndt finished eighth, and freshman Mindi Kalogera took eleventh for the Irish women. 
"The team is peaking at the right time," said DeCieco. "Next week is another hurdle, and we need to concentrate on qualifying for the NCAA Championships." 
Next weekend, the team travels to Cleveland State for the NCAA Midwest Hegional Qualifier. Both the men and women will have to plaee in the top two spots or receive one at­large bid in order to qualify for the NCAA Championships. 

SHENANIGANS 
is looking for a piano player to help with rehearsal & performances. 
If interested ca//4x1346 
-

• 
• -'. 
~,.,.,,~

~ 
J 
With Visa® you'll be accepted at more than f0 million places, nearly three times more than American Express. And that's not a misprint. 
Visa. ltfs Everywhere.You Want To Be~ 
'"'""'..._-------------------------------------CVIsaU.SA.inc.l""'l<---' 


----~ ------~~----------------------~-----------------------------.. 
Today 
Tuesday, March 2, 1993 
page 15 


THE UlTiMATE $8 HAiRCUT! 
.. 
-/~tG\--------------------------~
.,,.,,;::'we c.are llair 
1 8 1 1 SouTH BENd AvE. 271--7674 
wiTH 
STudENT ID EXpiRES 7J/5/97J 
SPELUNKER 
58-Cassini 59 Author Joyce 
Carol­60 --hour traffic 61 Sault-Marie 62 "Christina's 
World" artist 63 "Don't sit under the apple-" 
DOWN 
1 Mountain lion 2-even keel 3 After-dinner 
candy 4 Biblical suffix 5 Adjective for 
some apples 6 Stringed 
instruments 1 Algerian city 8 Move a TV 
camera 
9 Actor Wallach 10Taste 11 Growing out 12-tube 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 

H£ Y..TEN L£115 fuY A 8UNc.H OF' 
Com res '-fo READ WHIL£ Lof WAif For{ COW-Boy 1D FIND A o.JP:,'/ ll> RE1VRN US R> OUR 
. CJDULT BO IE"S. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

r.:t:::+.:::t=t;-t 18 TV sit com 
~::+:-i"!' 19 Sculptor, e.g. 230utona­24 Slingshot 
-::+.~-t:::=-t=t-:-t:-=1 miss i I e 
r.-:t::-:+:-+7ir=+.;:-t 29 Silvery fish r.:-+-:-+:--+=-r.-:1 31 Amigo· s farewell 
BILL WATTERSON 
5 ... FOR. ~UPENDOUS.' 
ITS NO\ EN()UGI.( 11-\t>.T ~E. T..FoR Tfb£/?., FERocni OF! 
I-I"'IJt. ~ \l't 0\SCII'l\~~R\1\~S. 
U... FOR UNPUWfAR, REO! 
!'\OW WE NU.D Tc 13E P... ~OR POW£R., \tKREOIBLE ·' 
E... FOR £XCEL1£NT PIW51QUE! N... r:oR ... UM ... S<::>MEn.III'IG ... \\M, 
'tlt\.\..1\1.. C0\1\~ 'i31>-C.¥. It> 1\\'-T... 
D... FoR 0£TfRMfNA noN.' 
() ... FOR ... Wf>.\'f, \\OW\)() '!0\.J Sl'£.ll 1\i\')? IS IT "I'r.,.., 
if~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Apple. e.g. 5 Flee to wed 10 Architect I. M. 
13 Army group 140ftheear 15--Pavlova 11 Big Apple's 
mecca 20 Hill dweller 21 Aspect 22 Loathed 23 Camera part 24 Old Greek coins 26 Preparing 
apples for baking 29 Bonehead 
30 Apple of Eve's eye? 31"That's-," Martin hit 32 Meadow 35 Eden's apple et 
al. 39 Victorian, e.g. 40 Duplicity 41 Filberts 42 Beak; beezer 
43 Like a bad 
apple 45 Puzzled 48 President's 
power 49 "Who Framed 
-Rabbit?'' so African republic 51 Madrid Mrs. 54 Kind of apple 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
32 N.H.L. goalie 45 Jason's ship 52 Trick Mike-46 Picks and hoes 53 Court king 33 Kitchen finish 47 Shoelace tag Arthur 48 Manservant 55 Present
34 P.B.A.. e.g. 50 Deal out 56 "An ap~!e a
36 Neglect 
51 Like a crab 37 Pairs 
apple 57 N.Y.C. subway 38"For-usa 
child is born" 42 Heavy hammer Get answers to any three clues 43 Burger topping by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
44Auditory 
Sports 
page 16 Tuesday, March 2, 1993 
BRIAN KUBICKI .Q.....~~""'· ;-....,.. .. l/. ?"-;; :-~ Playing Around .. ·~~ Question: How can baseball clean up its mess? It's March, and it's time for madness. Spring training is about to begin. While many sports fans dream of the pairings and brackets of the NCAA basketball tournament, others travel to Arizona and Florida with the excitement and intensity of Christian pilgrims travelling to Canterbury. J'or those twelve people, I have compiled a few tidbits they might find interesting and some questions they can debate on the trip down. George Steinbrenner has completed his lifetime suspension from baseball in only 30 months. In a baseball think­tank somewhere, mathematicians are working with the intensity of. .. well, they are working to determine exactly how long a lifetime is for Pete Rose. QUfJStion: Would Major League Baseball consider diminishing its integrity (the integrity that gave Steve !lowe a five year lifetime suspension for drug use and multiple failed second tries) and Jet "Charlie Hustle", a man who played the game with the intensity of ... well. represented dedication to the sport that any athlete should envy, back in baseball a few years before his lifetime is over? While we are discussing suspensions, Marge Schott gets her year to try to convince anyone who cares that she is not a racist and really does care about her players. Those pictures of her hugging some of Cincinnatti's African­American players only proves to me that she still knows how to exploit them. Question: With baseball's wonderful formula, how short will Schott's suspension really turn out to be? (Hint: It will be a year or Jess.) Paul Moliter is beginning spring training in a Toronto Blue Jays' uniform. After enough seasons with the Milwaukee Brewers to earn the nickname "Mr. Loyalty", he decided to take his dedication to a better (paying) organization. There are very few players left in the majors that have played for only one team. but not for long. Kirby Puckett is always threatening to leave the Twins when his contract expires, and George Brett has maybe two years left. Question: Are there any other players left in the majors with enough respect for the game to resist the temptation of some extra pocket cash with which they can carpet their dog house and stay with the team and fans where they started? Somewhere amidst all the unserved and beginning suspensions, the racism, and the greed, Major League Baseball is about to kick off its preseason, which brings me to my final and possibly most important question. Question: When does the NCAA tournament begin?  Doubles play sparks men's tennis team By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer The Notre Dame men's tennis team got a reprieve of sorts last weekend, as they took a break from the nation's toughest schedule to face two Big Ten teams in Northwestern and Illinois at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. Saturday's change of pace was appreciated, as the Irish got some home­cooked meals for a change and picked up two easy wins, enjoying the success and gaining some confidence with a 6-1 win over the Wildcats and a 7-0 shutout of the Illini. "First of all it was great to be home, and second of all it's good to get some wins under your belt," said senior Mark Schmidt, who won twice at #3 singles and once at #2 doubles. A focal point for this weekend has been the doubles teams, as they all turned in outstanding performances. At one­doubles, Will Forsyth and Chuck Cole­man picked up two more impressive victories, and after starting off the year at 2-3 the two have rattled of four wins in their last five matches. "We've had surprisingly strong play at one-doubles," noted Bayliss, "It's been a big boost of confidence lately." With the easy win against the Wildcats, the Irish were able to experiment with the Illini, and they got solid wins from senior Chris Wojtalik and freshman Mike Sprouse at two-doubles and from junior Allan Lopez and sophomore Horst Dzuira at the third slot. The Observer/John Rock "It really helps to beat someone Chuck Coleman and the rest of the Notre Dame men's tennis team rolled overdecisively," stated Bayliss, "It's been a Northwestern and Illinois last weekend. shot in the arm. I felt we were playing at The wins raise the Irish's record to 6-4, play this season against such a tougha level that pleased me, but when you with the four losses coming to perennial schedule, it does help to win a couple ofplay a match and you lose, you still feel powerhouses #1 USC, #3 Georgia, #8 easy matches, as Bayliss and Schmidtempty. We played #1 and #3 on North Carolina, and #11 Kentucky. Evenconsecutive days and lost both matches, see TENNIS/ page 13though the Irish are satisfied with theirbut a loss is a loss." Women's swim team dominates to win third straight MCC title By HALEY SCOTT finished. We won a good amount of Sports Writer events." Notre Dame did not only win events. The Irish swam well enough to win, Head coach Tim Welsh was named MCC but not as fast as they had hoped. women's coach of the year, and fresh­The women's swim team continued man Jesslyn Peterson won newcomer­their reign as the Midwestern Collegiate of-the year. Conference champions by capturing their The Irish started their domination with sixth straight title this past weekend. four victories and a second place on the The Irish scored 1183 points, ahead of first day of the meet. Kay Broderick, a second place Evansville who totaled 891 senior from Wayne, Ill, won the 200-yard points. La Salle (770), Butler (518), individual medley with a time of 2:11.41, Duquesne (493), and Xavier (405) to break her own MCC record. Notre uiil/UII··rounded out the conference. Dame's Rachel Thurston, Cara Garvey, ;, '"~ijJJHIJJ)Iil"' Senior co-captain Susan Bohdan swam and Kelly Walsh placed first, second, and llhlllllff'i!i• ·'IIIII:· one of the best meets of her four-year third respectively, in the 50-yard Photo counesy of Notre Dame Spans Information career with the Irish, and was encour­freestyle. Freshman Mary Wendell joined Notre Dame swimming coach Tim Welsh aged by the team's performance. "I was the winning trio to comprise the 4x50­earned MCC women's coach of the year pleased with how we swam and how we yard winning freestyle relay. honors. The 400-yard medley relay of noticed the "team's legs (kicking) looked Broderick, Peterson, Lisa Mancuso, and tired throughout the weekend." Bohdan also placed first. Finish out the The Irish's focus now is the Eastern first of three days of competition was Collegiate championship meet this Peterson, who placed the highest for the weekend at Cleveland State. "Hopefully Irish in the 500-yard freestyle taking with a few more days of rest our taper second with and a time of 5:05.18. will kick in a little stronger, and we will Notre Dame continued to prove swim faster," Bohdan said. themselves the dominant team Most members of the swim team throughout the second day of competed in the MCC meet and will competition. In the 200-yard medley eompete at Easterns, but some ended relay, the team of Garvey, and freshmen their season over the weekend. Alisa Springman, Walsh, and Thurston "It will be exciting to swim at Easterns placed first with a MCC meet record time with the people who didn't go to MCC's. of 1:50.99, two seconds faster than the They will bring a renewed spirit to the record set by Notre Dame last year. team," Bohdan said. Joining the team in Bohdan won the first of two events with Cleveland will be senior co-captain a time of 1:55.50, in the 200-yard Tanya Williams, and sophomores Amy  

freestyle. She later went on to win the Betham, Lorrei Horenkamp, and AngieINSIDE SPORTS 100-yard freestyle, followed by Thurston Hoby.
..•lit· 
•Fencers 
roll Into postseason see page 14 

•Dallas 
expected to hire Buckner see page 13 


IISonlcs sign Kemp through 2002 see page 12 
at second and Peterson in third. Easterns will be the last meet of the Junior Kristin Heath was also a double season for most of the team. Williams winner, placing first in the 400-yard will go on to compnte at the NCAA individual medley and the mile freestyle. championships after spring break, along "Kristin had an awesome meet. She with any other swimmers who may looked really strong," said Bohdan. qualify this weekend. If the Irish are The mile and the 100-yard freestyle able to win the Eastern Conference 
..HJII•" 
Photo counesy of Notre Dame Spans Information were the only events Notre Dame won on championship title it will be the first time 
Cara Garvey helped Notre Dame's 200-the third day, but the lead they built on in three years, and only the second time yard medley relay team to victory in last the previous days was enough to win. a Notre Dame women's team has weekend's MCC championships. Assistant head coach Randy Julian achieved such an aceomplishment. 







