---------~-----~~~-----------------. 
The Observer 
enate kills Clinton's jobs bill 
(AP) 

ocrats abandoned their ef­
rt to push President Clinton's 
obs bill through the Senate Wednesday, as relentless Re­publicans saddled the new president with his first major legislative defeat. 
After fruitless eleventh-hour negotiations between White House officials and Senate Democrats and Republicans, the Senate used a voice vote to approve only the $4 billion the bill contained for jobless bene­fits and strip the rest of the money from the legislation. 
Hours earlier, Democrats had lost their fourth attempt to break a filibuster by minority Hnpublicans that had frozen the measure in the Senate since last month. 
The Senate vote, in effect, killed one of Clinton's major economic initiatives. 
'Tm disappointed but I knew when I came here that we'd have to change some things in Washington," Clinton told re­porters after the vote. "The American people won't be sur­prised, I guess, to think that a minority of one house could keep several hundred thousand people out of work this year." 
The jobs measure killed Wednesday contained $12.2 bil­lion to restore forests, provide immunizations for children, create summer jobs for students and finance other programs Clinton said would stimulate the economy and put more Americans to work. It also had $3.2 billion from the existing highway trust fund for road construction. 
"While the other side is con­gratulating each other on proving they are a force to be reckoned with, they have only proved that they are the guardians of grid-lock," said Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va. 
"If I am any judge, I think the American people are supporting our position on this package," said Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan. "Most people I talk to say cut spending first ... and don't raise my taxes." 
Dole also said the battle showed that the White House should seek support from Re­publicans on future issues, something it failed to do on the jobs package. 
"Hopefully, we'll be consulted on health care and some of the other major problems," he said. 
The Senate measure now goes to the !louse, where Democratic aides were uncertain whether a vote would occur this week or next. Liberals there were already unhappy when Clinton had stripped $4 billion from the bill in a futile effort to win GOP support. 

But Republicans stood firm, arguing that the package would add billions to record federal deficits while doing little to help a $6 trillion economy. Democrats had wanted to fi­nance the measure by borrow­ing money, which would drive up the budget shortfall. 
In a day of closed-door talks, Republicans offered a much smaller version of the package worth about $6.5 billion -the jobless benefits money, plus some spending for summer jobs, road building and other projects. All the programs but the unemployment benefits would have been paid for with cuts in existing programs, a package the Democrats re­jected. 
The final offer by the White House and Mitchell was a bill worth $12.9 billion, including the highway money. For the first time, Democrats moved toward meeting a key GOP de­mand by offering to pay for some of the spending -$5 bil­lion of it -by cutting existing programs. 
But Dole said the new White House proposal was too large. 
The Observer/ Sue Kehias 

And he said Republicans wanted everything in the mea­
Testing her skill and balance 
sure paid for with offsetting Amy Cooper, a Pasquerilla East sophomore tries her skill and cuts -except $4 billion it con­
succeeds at the ladder climb as part of the AnTostal activities at Notre tains for jobless benefits. 
Dame yesterday on the Fieldhouse Mall. 
<3ays, lesbians find their place on campus 
Editor's Note: The following is the second of a three-part series examining the place of gays and lesbians on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Before she "came out," Kelly 
A. Smith, a fifth-year Saint Mary's student, was depressed and afraid of how her friends would react to her sexuality. She wouldn't tell anyone where she was going on the weekends or with whom, for fear of harassment or vandalism. 
Tom skirted the question of his homosexuality by being immersed in school activities and academics. He began to lose interest in going out with his friends and felt very "detached from reality". He was tired of trying to "trick" himself into being someone he was not. 
Edward, who asked to be idcmtified by middle name only, has only told other gays and lesbians about his homosexuality. Living in the dorm, he knows many of his friends and hall-mates subscribe to the common stereotypes of gays, and he is unsure how they will react if he "comes out". 
These three students are friendly, outgoing, involved college students-the only difference between them and mainstream students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is their 
al preferences. 
According to Smith, she didn't 
deal with her 
until her senior 

ar. "It's something I didn't 
ant to deal with. I really 
The Unrecognized Minority 


I) G~S ~ 
• CAMPUS • 

couldn't talk about what was going on with me," she said. 
Tom told his closest friends that he was gay a few months ago. Although he was subtly aware of being homosexual in high school, he found it easy to "put in the back of [his] mind." 
"I didn't talk about it much. But it finally came to the point where I didn't want to play the game anymore. I wanted to be true to myself," he said. 
Edward has yet t.o tell his roommates or his family, although he wants to get it out in the open. "A lot of people have the guts to be more open than I am," he said. 
He said he especially fears his family's reaction to his homosexuality. "I often feel a lot of pressure from my family. They have a lot of plans for me to have a family, to get a job," he said. 
Both Smith and Tom struggled to tell their heterosexual friends and feared jeopardizing other friendships. "I was scared to death. I could hardly look at (them)," Smith said. 
According to Tom, he carefully chose which friends to tell about his homosexuality. "Some of them, even though they are such good friends, they are such homophobics." 
The painful process of coming out, however, has empowered the two students tb an extent, 
Homosexuals find place for help 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
The University Counseling 

Center serves as an outlet for 
gay and lesbian students who 
are in emotional pain, accord­
ing to Sue Steibe-Pasalich, 
assistant director of the coun­
seling center. 
Gay and lesbian students 

may come into the counseling 
center for many different 
reasons, according to Steibe­
Pasalich, but sexual identity 
issues generally center around 
three main areas. 
"Sometimes students come 

in confused with their sexual 
identity. They come looking for 
help to deal with their 
uncertainties," said Steibe­
Pasalich. 
Students also come to the 

counseling center to talk about 
"coming out," she said. 
"They are looking for help or 

ideas to tell friends, family, 
roommates. Those are stu­
dents who are clear on iden­
tity, but are looking for sup­
port," Steibe-Pasalich said. 
Finally, students may seek 

the services of the counseling 
center is if they are having 
problems in homosexual rela­
tionships. 
"It's just like problems with 

and made them happier and more self-confident. "You build self-confidence and esteem once you accept it as good, positive, and beneficial," Tom said. 
Personal acceptance, however, does not necessarily guarantee societal acceptance. 
heterosexual couples on cam­pus. They come in with their partner and they feel they want to get help, or maybe they have just broken up with a partner," continued Steibe­Pasalich. 
Although issues of concern for gays and lesbians "have been pretty stable over the years", Steibe-Pasalich cau­tioned that these are not the only problems students come the them with. 
Counseling is widely avail­able, according to Steibe­Pasalich. 
"Someone is always covering the phones. There is always someone who can see them. All anyone needs to do is just call the counseling center and ask to see a counselor," she said. 
The Counseling Center's 11ervices are completely con­fidential, said Steibe-Pasalich. They cannot release any names. '\VithontJhe student's written permission. 
. In addition to the resources of the Counseling Center, a support group affiliated with· Campus Ministry for gays and lesbiansis pending. 
· 
., ,. 

Contributions to this story were made by Jason lVilliams. 
.··'.'.·. · .. 

Smith, Edward, and Tom acknowledged that gays and lesbians are subjected to much prejudice and hatred from different sources. 
Church-imposed "notions" contribute to the negative views of gays and lesbians on this campus and in society as a 
see GAYS I page 4 

Dominos comes back to campus 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 
Dominos Pizza was banned from delivering their products to the University from March 31 until April 20 after failing to abide by regulations concern­ing posting their signs on cam­pus. 
University policy states that signs must be approved by the Office of Student Activities be­fore they can be posted on campus. Most corporate signs are not approved because of a conflict of interest, according to William Kirk, assistant vice president for student affairs. 
The Dominos Pizza corporation illeagally posted signs without approval from Student Activities, Kirk said. As 
a  result,  the  University  
prohibited  Domino's  from  
delivering  pizzas  to  any  

University owned buildings. 
"They had been warned on a number of occasions that they were prohibited from posting unapproved signs on campus," Kirk said. "Their failure to abide by the rules resulted in the ban.." 
The ban was originally set to last until May 18, but was shortened "to accommodate the students," Kirk said. 
"We wanted to be understanding and at the same time let the businesses know the rules," he added. 
0. ,., , ' , , 2 Thu 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Americans must work to prevent next Holocaust 

"Does it seem possible or does it seem impossible to you that the Nazi extermination of the Jews never happened?" 

A simple question, yet the answers and the implications the Roper Organization Holocaust survey -------­produced were anything but simple. 
Twenty-two percent of the total respondents answered that it was indeed possible that the Holocaust never took place. In the face o incontrovertible evidence-pictures, films and eyewitness accounts of both prisoners and liberators-twenty-two percent of Americans thought it was possible that the deathcamps at Auschwitz, Birkenau, Dachau, and Treblinka never existed. 
Twenty-two percent of the citizens of the freest nation in the world believe that six million Jews never perished in the flames o ovens, never choked to death in the gasses o Nazi showers, never died in a hail of bullets. 
How does such ignorance exist in America? Is this just another example of the failure of our public schools to adequately educate our nation's youth? Surprisingly, it does not appear so. While twenty percent of non-high school graduates responded that it was possible the Holocaust never happened, twenty-one percent of college graduates believed the same thing. 
Where then does the responsibility lie? Could there really be a virulent strain of anti-Semitism in American society? Can people, despite indisputable facts, still refuse to accept reality? 
Right now, a holocaust of ethnic cleansing is taking place in Bosnia. We cannot tell these people that their sufTering is an illusion. 
The nations of the world must put an end to this second-generation holocaust. We must intervene because we owe the same debt to Bosnians, to Somalians, to Cambodians, that we owe the Jews for not stopping the Nazi Holocaust as soon as we discovered Hitler's genocide plans in 1933. This debt can never be fully repaid, but the world must never stop trying. We owe that to the millions who died in Nazi camps, if not to ourselves in our common humanity. 
The situation is Bosnia-Herzegovina is a tense one, and extremely difficult to follow. Ethnic strife in a distant land is not as interesting as a prison riot in Lucasville, Ohio or a fiery apocalypse in Waco, but it is far more important because of its universal implications. 
We must never again let the chains of in­difference fetter the actions morality dictates we take. The greatest lesson Elie Wiesel teaches us is the true consequence o indiiTerence. As a result of his experiences in Buchenwald, he wrote, "I have learned the degree of indifTerence, the crime of indifTerence. For the opposite of love is not hate, but indiiTerence." 
Perhaps indifTerence is what motivated those polled to answer that it was indeed possible that the Holocaust never happened. 
This must never happen again. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of 
The Observer.  
Today's Staff  
News Jason Williams Theresa Aleman Production Susan Marx Whitney Sheets Accemt Mara Divis Steve Tankovich Lynn Bauwens  Graphics Ann-Marie Conrado Sports Kevin McGuire Brian Kubicki Viewpoint Lynn Bauwens Lab Tech Scott Mendenhall  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ol the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 21. 

• • • 80s 
WARM STATIONARY 

© 1993Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L a fSS1 lTIJ 0 ~ ~It 1:) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
FORECAST 
Mostly sunny and warm with highs in the lower 60s. Partly cloudy and warm tonight with highs in the middle 60s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L 
Anchorage 53 27 Atlanta 57 51 Bogota 68 51 Cairo 79 59 Chicago 54 28 Cleveland 40 33 Dallas 69 47 Detroit 51 34 ndianapolls 52 36 Jerusalem 64 48 London 64 52 Los Angeles 88 62 Madrid 68 46 Minneapolis 59 27 Moscow 46 28 Nashville 52 43 New York 74 51 Paris 70 54 Philadelphia 74 59 Rome 72 48 Seattle 68 47 South Bend 50 32 Tokyo 55 43 Washington D.C. 65 58 

VIa Assooillted PrttBS 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
INTERNATIONAL Abortions create gender gap 
•BEIJING 
-China's top family planning official said Wednesday that the government hoped to persuade more Chinese to value girl babies to help fight the imbalance between the births of girls and boys.Peng Peiyun. chairwoman of the State Family Planning Commission, the government's position that hardly any girls are killed at birth, while conceding it was hard to confirm this.China's policy is to allow most couples just one child in an efTort to keep the population of 1.17 billion from growing faster than food supplies.Women not only are supposed to have just one baby, but are supposed to have it when directed by local authorities, who are given annual quotas. 

•NEW 
YO K -A national poll released Wednesday pegged President Clinton's approval rating at 52 percent, down five points from the previous month.The NBC News-Wall Street Journal Poll of 1,004 adults was taken Saturday through Tuesday. as Clinton dealt with congressional resistance to 



his economic stimulus plan and the horrific end of the Branch Davidian cult siege. NBC said that the final day's polling on Tuesday found two-thirds approval of Monday's tear-gas assault on David Koresh's compound in Waco, Texas, and 60 percent agreement that Clinton is accepting his fair share of the responsibility. 
OF INTEREST 
INDIANA 

CAMPUS Gloria Kaufman honored last night 
•NOTRE DAME-Gloria Kaufman, an Eldon S. Lundquist Fellow at Indiana University at South Bend (IUSB), was honored last night at a gathering of !USB and Saint Mary's professors. Kaufman, who is retiring, was honored for her longstanding support for women's studies in the South Bend area, and her support of the Saint Mary's women's studies program at its inception in 1984, according to Phyllis Kaminski women's studies coordinator at Saint Mary's. Kaufman started the women's studies program at !USB. She has served as the director of the Women's Resource Center in South Bend, testified at public hearings on behalf of women's rights and is the author of many scholarly papers. four books and a play dealing with women's issues. 
• The World Hunger Coalition invites you to join • Saturday Night Live's AI Franken will be in South them in an informal solidarity fast to continue to show Bend to sign copies of his books at Pandora's your support for the fight against hunger. The fast is Books'Mobile at 808 Howard this Friday from 3:30­from noon Friday to noon Saturday. We will meet at 6 Sp.m. 
p.m. Friday and at 12 p.m. Saturday to share in prayer at the Center for Social Concern 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING April21 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 346,074,490 -0.65 to 245.07 S&P COMPOSITE -1.47 to 443.63 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -4.05 to 3439.44

UNCHANGED 613 

GOLD 
-$0.40 to $339.90/oz 
SILVER +$.017 to $3.927/oz 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
ln1451 Queen Isabella I, who sponsored the voyages of Christopher Columbus, was born in Madrigal, Spain. 

• 
In 1509 Henry VIII aseended the throne of England following the death of his father, Henry VII. 

• 
ln1864 Congress authorized the use of the phrase "In God We Trust" on U.S. coins. 

• 
In 1889 the Oklahoma Land Rush began at noon as thousands of homesteaders staked claims. 

• 
In 1954 the televised Senate Army-McCarthy hearings began. 

• 
One year ago: The U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments on Pennsylvania's restrictive abortion law. 



Thursday, April 22, 1993 The Observer page3 

University receives over $90,000 in grants during February 
Special to The Observer multiphase flow through cleats 
in coal. 

The University of Notre Dame •$53,000 from the National received $92,377 in grants dur­Aeronautics and Space Admin­ing February for the support of istration Goddard Space Flight research and various programs. Center for research by Daniel Research funds totaled Costello, professor of electrical $649,021, including: engineering, on bandwidth ef­
•$227,465 from the National ficient coding and coded modu­Institutes of Health for research lation techniques. by Howard Saz, professor of bi­•$40,000 from the U.S. Air ological sciences, on the inter­Force for research by Eric 
mediary metabolism of Jumper, associate professor of helminths. aerospace and mechanical 
•$198,965 from Gas Research engineering, on fluid-optics in­Institute for research by Laura teractions. Pyrak-Nolte, assistant professor •$25,000 from the City of 
of civil engineering and Elkhart for Elkhark Environ­
geological sciences, on mental Center research by 



Hey// 

J
If you missed my birthday, ou' d better buy me a rink or this curtain is coming off! 
Please, please, for her friends' sake... buy her a drink when you wish her a belated Happy Birthday!!! We love you Julie (and yes, you had a good time!!) 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 

Reserved seats: $7. Students and senior citizen discounts are available Wed., Thu. and Sun. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call: 631-8128. 
Wed. April 21 -Sat. April 24 at 8:10pm Sun. April25 at 3:10pm 

ULIUS 



___ s 
by William Shakespeare 

WASHINGTON HALL 
Mambar lntamational Nanny Association 
Phon~: 

(219) 277..8090 (219) 674-6665 
(Elkhart) 
Quality In-Home Child Care 

Permanent Placement: 
• 
Full or part-time Caregivers who come to your home on a regular basis. 

• 
Share a Nanny 



• Summer Nanny Temporary Service 

• 
Sick child care 


• 
Occasional day or evening care 

• 
Overnight or weekend care 


Lloyd Ketchum, associate pro­fessor of civil engineering and geological sciences. 
•$25,000 
from Miles Labora­tories for microelectronics re­search by Gary Bernstein, as­sistant professor of electrical engineering. 

•$23,926 
from the Institute for Aerospace Research for dy­namic vortex breakdown re­search by Robert Nelson, pro­fessor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering. 

•$20,500 
from Rutgers Uni­versity for research by Candace Howes, assistant professor of finance and business eco­nomics. 


Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $200,000 from International Business Machines for microelectronics research by Gary Bernstein, assistant professor of electrical engineering. 
Awards for service programs totaled $50,956, including: 
•$26,372 from the Indiana State Department of Health for arbovirus 
surveillance laboratory ser­vice, administered by Paul Grimstead, associate professor of biological sciences. 
•$24,584 from anonymous 
benefactors for various pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
Awards for other programs totaled $21,500, including: 
•$20,000 
from the Indiana Department of Environmental management for Notre Dame's office paper recycling program, administered by Linda B. Thomson, assistant director of purchasing. 

•$1,500 
from Indiana Uni­versity for a program in civil engineering and architecture curricula, administered by Donald Sporleder, professor of architecture. 



Artwork on Notre Dame basketball tickets wins athletic department national award 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
The Notre Dame Athletic of­fice has won an Award of Excel­lence for a contest which fea­tured the artwork of local ele­mentary school children on Notre Dame basketball tickets. 
The contest allowed children to create a ticket design, the only stipulation being that the theme of the drawing included Fighting Irish basketball. 
The magazine "Athletic Man­agement," which is targeted toward college and high school athletic administrators, selected Notre Dame's program for the award because it involved many people from the local community, according to Eleanor Frankel, managing ed­itor of the publication. 
Director of ticketing and marketing, Bill Scholl and sports marketing manager, Jim Fraleigh, initiated the program after learning of a similar contest used by the Kansas City Chiefs. 
There were over 500 final entries from approximately 25 schools. Every class from kindergarten through eighth grade was asked to send in two entries-the response was "phenomenal," according to Fraleigh. 
Fifteen designs were selected and winning artists received invitations to the games in which their drawings appeared. 
Winners were also presented with framed copies of their ticket design at halftime of the games. 
Preparations for the contest for next season are already un­der way in light of this year's success, Fraleigh said. He also said that several other univer­sities have contacted Notre Dame about beginning similar programs for their teams. 
"The program gives kids a means of becoming closer to Notre Dame athletics with members of the basketball team as role models," Fraleigh said. 
"It is a positive program in that it focuses on all kids in the community. Everyone has a chance to win." 

TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1994-95. If you are currently a junior and interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Tuesday evening, April27, 1993 at 7:00 p.m. in room 131 DeBartolo 
Gewantto talk to you ... 
The Office ofUniversity Computing (OUC) is acampus service organization. Its mission is to meet the various needs ofthe campus community. To better understand these needs, the OUC directors plan to visit adifferent part ofthe campus every day ofthe week ofApril19-23. Come talk with us. Hear our upcoming plans, and let us know what we can do to better serve you. 
SCHEDULE  
Monday , April 19  3:30-5:00  131 Decio  
Tuesday, April 20  12:00-1:30  121 Hayes-Healy  
3:30-5:00  262 Stepan  
Conference Room  
Wednesday, April 21  3:30-5:00  258 Fitzpatrick  
Thursday, April 22  3:30-5:00  Foster Room,  
LaFortune Center  
Friday, April 23  3:30-5:00  121 Main Building  



Ught refreshments will be seNed. 
Office of University Computing University of Notre Dome 

Want 
$23,500 


for college! 
The Anny Reserve can help you take a big bite out of college expenses. How? 
Ifyou qualify, the Mont­gomery GI Bill could provide you with up to $6,840 for college or approved vo/tech training. We'll also pay you over $105 a weekend to start Training is usually one weekend a month plus two weeks' Annual Training. By adding the pay for Basic Training and skill training, you'll earn over $16,750 during a standard enlistment 
So, if you could use a little financial help getting through school-the kind that won't inter­fere with school-stop by or call: 

(219) 234.-4187 
BE ALL YOU CAH BE: 
ARMY RESERVE 

----------------------------~~-----­
-
page 4 

Forty bodies found so far at Waco cult compound 
WACO, Texas (AP)-Three of about 40 bodies found scattered throughout the incinerated ruins of a cult compound had recent bullet wounds, but authorities said Wednesday it wasn't clear if they were vic­tims of suicide or homicide. 
Also still unclear was federal agents' rationale for sending in tear gas-firing tanks to end a 51-day standoff with the Branch Davidian cult on Mon­day. 
Attorney General Janet Reno has said that reports of child abuse in the compound led her to authorize the agents' assault. The White House said Wednes­day that child abuse inside the compound had been continuing; the FBI said it had only old reports and a psychiatrist's analysis. 
Federal and state officials said about 40 bodies were spotted in the rubble by late Wednesday, but most likely wouldn't be removed before Thursday. There was no immediate word that cult leader David Koresh's body had been found. 
Investigators were moving cautiously in the city block­sized area where Koresh and 85 others, including 17 children 10 or under, were believed to have died. Nine cultists survived. 
Many of the found bodies weren't immediately moved because officials were being careful to avoid possible booby traps and ammunition that could explode in the still-warm debris, Justice Department spokesman Carl Stern said in Washington. 
Charred bodies were being found "generally distributed throughout the rubble," showing no signs of the group being huddled together as the fire spread, said Chuck McDon­ald, a spokesman for the state Department of Public Safety. 
He said at least two bodies have been found in a cin­derblock-lined room where Ko­resh and top lieutenants are believed to have sought cover. 
"It's a very gruesome scene," said Mike Cox, another spokesman for the state agency. 
Stern said three of the victims had gunshot wounds and died recently. He said one had been shot in the forehead and the head of another victim was "virtually blown away." 

Stern ruled out the possibility that they were victims of shootouts Feb. 28 after a raid by federal Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agents. But he ·said it was possible that their bodies were struck by ammunition exploding during the inferno in the compound, where at least $200,000 worth of weapons were believed to have been stored. 
The blaze broke out at the sprawling rural complex after agents used tanks fitted with booms to break holes in the walls and pump in tear gas. 
The FBI says agents saw cult members set fire to the wooden buildings in a mass suicide, and had other evidence of arson; at least two of the survivors allege that a tank knocked over lanters and started the blaze. 
Cult member Rita Riddle, 34, shouted to reporters as she left a federal courthouse Wednes­day that "there was no suicide pact." She was charged with conspiracy to murder federal agents; court documents allege she was one of five women who aimed rifles at the agents dur­ing the Feb. 28 raid. 
In Washington, meanwhile, a spokesman for President Clinton said there were "mountains of evidence" of prolonged child abuse inside the compound. 
"Protecting the kids was the ultimate rationale for going in," said George Stephanopoulos, the White House communica­tions director. 
Koresh was "marrying chil­dren" and "sexually abusing children" and children were "being taught how to commit suicide, how to put guns in their mouths, how to clamp down on cyanide," Stephanopoulos said. 
"It was continuing, it was go­ing on," Stephanopoulos said. 
Correction 
In a story in yesterday's edition, The Observer incor­rectly reported the financing of the 24-hour areas to be open during finals week. Student government will pay to keep study areas in the basement and first floor of LaFortune Student Center open. The Hesburgh Library and Allegro Coffee Shop will finance the extended hours on their own. 

Notre Dame employees prepare the Memorial Fountain for Spring's warm weather and Notre Dame­
Commencement Activities. 

Gays 
continued from page 1 

whole, according to Tom. "The Church isn't infallible in every issue. For me Christianity should be the place where [homosexuality) is most accepted," Tom said. 
Although Smith now "feels at odds with the Church" as a lesbian, Tom and Edward still treasure their Catholic faith. "That is number one for me. It's my belief to seek the creative hand of God in my life," Tom said. 
Although the two administrations have denied recognition to the campus group Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC), the three students are encouraged by the campus discussion in publications and in the classroom about gay and lesbian issues. 
"I get the feeling there's a lot more support than animosity," said Edward. 
Smith agreed. "I think most 
There's only one way to come out ahead of the pack. 
We
areParents 
&Friends 
otLesbians&Gays 
Primary purpose of P-FLAG 

The primary purpoae of P-FLAG is to provide a comfortable atmosphere of openness where family members share experiences and learn how to support their lesbian and gay daughters, sons, relatives and friends with love and pride. Informal discussion gives P-FLAG members the opportunity to see that gayo and leabians come from all kinds of families and have talents, virtues and goals in life as diverse as those found in the straight world. We provide support and encouragement to gay people during the process of •coming out• to their families. Interaction ofgays, lesbians and families and friends ofgays and lesbians promotes greater understanding 
and strengthens our 
bility to extend it to everyone else
loving relationships. 

is said in our meetings, as well as the ,;,.,,.. ",.;,.;;,.."'of people attending, is to be kept 
P-FLAG 
Post Office Box 4195 South Bend, IN 46634-4195 

Meetings are held the fourth Sunday of each month from 2:.00-4:00 pm at Christ the King Lutheran Church on 17195 Cleveland Road between Grape and Ironwood. 
Next Meeting April 25th. 

Confidentiality Policy 
Each person who attends our meetings has the right to expect the following protection and the 
people on this campus, if they had a friend who was gay or lesbian, would be open-minded about it." 
The person-to-person level of acceptance is very different from the official stand taken by the College and the University, according to Tom. He said he feels that by not recognizing their existence, the administrations are setting the tone for student body opinion of gays and lesbians 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's should be a "source of education and not a perpetuator of ignorance," he said. 
Since acknowledging their homosexuality, harassment has not yet been a problem for either Smith, Edward, or Tom, but they are aware of the possibility of anti-gay actions. 
"I had heard of incidents of lesbians on campus being harassed. If I still lived in the residence halls, I would be afraid of repercussions. I would be afraid of receiving hate mail, harassing phone calls, or vandalism," Smith said. 
Tom and Edward believe their relative secrecy has prevented them from being targeted by violence or "gay bashers", although they realize they said they will probably encounter it someday. 
However, Tom said gay jokes and comments do constitute harassment. He occasionally hears people in his dorm ridiculing gays, and he "doesn't let any slur slide". 
"I think that if someone puts down and doesn't see the essential dignity in people, then that's a problem for everyone," he said. "It's just ignorant and rude comments." 
Smith said she believes such "slurs" and attitudes on campus may stem from a basic discomfort with the subject of sexuality and the stereotypes prevalent in the mass media. 
"The real thing is very different from the image" promoted in television shows or comedy acts, according to Smith. "We do find some of the stereotypes humorous, but unfortunately a lot of people in the student body take that seriously," she said. 






The History 
LECTURE 


of Black

BYRev. 
Cyprian 

Catholics 

Da~ 

in the 

OSB 

United
..... April 27, 1993 

..... 7:30pm -9:30pm ..,.. library Auditorium ..,.. Reception tofollow 
in the Faculty Lounge 





•Large Balconies 
CALL Now FOR APPOINTMENTS 

272-0691 
Going Quickly $660°0 per month 

Notre Dame Apartments 
2 bedroom Apts. 
Now LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
Apartments Available at 
$250 per month 
Features include (in all units): 
• 
New Carpet 

• 
New Appliances 

• 
New Cabinets 

• 
New Security System 

• 
New Landscaping • Fenced Parking • 


~Come see the changes we have maile. You won't be disappointed!
For more info call: 

232-8258 
Thursday, April 22, 1993 The Observer 
page 5 

EARTH DAY 93 
G) 
2000." 

While Clinton had endorsed that course during his cam­paign, some of his economic advisers had urged a go-slow approach until more data could be gathered -essentially the argument that kept the Bush administration from making the commitment. 
Clinton went further, saying he would direct his administration to "produce a cost effective plan by August that can continue the trend of reduced emissions," beyond 2000. 
He said the nation "must take the lead in addressing the challenge of global warming that could make our planet and its climate less hospitable and more hostile to human life." 
Former EPA Administrator William Reilly who fought to get the Bush administration to sign the biodiversity treaty, called Clinton's decision to do so "a 
•1 
I 4 Mile from Library 

•Brand 
New Appliances 

•2 
Bedrooms 

•2 
Bathrooms 



sound and timely move." "I wish we had been able to do it," he added. 
He als.o lauded the global warming statement, saying he believed it would be possible to stabilize greenhouse gases without damaging the nation's economic interests. 
But John Shales, director of the industry-backed Global Climate Coalition, said that if Clinton insists on stabilizing emissions at 1990 levels, it will mean higher taxes and greater regulation of industry "which could chill American industrial growth and capital formation." 
Major environmental groups lauded Clinton's speech. 
'.'President Clinton has brought America back into step with the rest of the · world on environmental protection," said Fred Krupp, executive director the Environmental Defense Fund. 
But Greenpeace and some smaller groups criticized the "interpretive statement" ­worked out with industry rep­resentatives and major envi­ronmental groups -that Clin­ton will attach with the U.S. 
signature to the biodiversity treaty. 
The interpretive statement was written to resolve concerns, held by both the Clinton and Bush administrations, that the treaty could be interpreted as forcing U.S. firms to share their research and technology with the developing countries that provide natural resources for U.S.-developed products, such as new wonder drugs. The administration also worried the treaty language could leave the United States open · to unreasonable financial burden. 
Jeremy Rifkin of the Foun­dation on Economic Trends said the interpretive statement, designed to protect the intellec­tual property rights of U.S. companies, was "a blatant at­tempt to control the world's genetic resources on behalf of the biotechnology industry." 
But G. Kirk Raab, president of the biotechnology firm Ge­nentech, Inc., which worked with the White House on the in­terpretive language, said the decision was "a major step forward for both businesses and environmentalists." 
•Washer 
& Dryer Units 

•Large 
Closets 


•Covered 
Parking 

•Security 
System 




Prisoners may end standoff 
LUCASVILLE, Ohio (AP) ­
Inmates began giving up 
Wednesday after a 1 0-day state 
prison uprising in which at 
least seven convicts and a 
guard were killed. But hours 
after the surrender began, five 
guards held hostage still hadn't 
emerged. 
Three of the prisoners were 
carried out of a barricaded cell 
block on stretchers. Three 
others used crutches. 
or the roughly 450 prisoners 
who had been holed up in the 
maximum-security Southern 
Ohio Correctional Facility since 
a riot on Easter Sunday, 105 
had come out of cell block L by 
early evening Wednesday. They 
were led out one by one. 
The inmates had taken eight 

guards hostage. One guard was 
strangled and two were freed 

unharmed last week. 
In exchange for peaceful surrender, state officials promised to review the in­mates' complaints, including religious objections to tubercu­losis testing and a federal law that requires integration of prison cells. 
The prison, 80 miles south of Columbus, houses some of the state's most dangerous crimi­nals. 
The surrender was witnessed by religious leaders and the news media. Throughout the standoff, inmates demanded that the media witness a surrender in an attempt to discourage authorities from retaliating. 
"This entire ordeal has been an incredible experience for us all," Warden Arthur Tate said. "Nevertheless, I am extremely proud thus far at the manner in which everyone has joined together in an attempt to bring this tragic ordeal to a successful conclusion." 
On Tuesday, three inmates and state negotiators met face­to-face for the first time, talking for two hours from opposite sides of a chain-link fence. Niki Schwartz, an inmate-rights lawyer who was brought to the prison on Sunday by state officials, also took part. 
"We are thrilled to announce the peaceful resolution of this crisis," Schwartz said. 
The Cleveland lawyer gave a list of 21 terms of surrender that had been signed by the warden. The terms included a promise of no retaliation against inmates, but Tate did not rule out prosecution or dis­cipline. 
"The inmates understand that when a guard has been murdered, no one is going to promise them no prosecution or discipline," he said. 
GROUNDHOG DAY (PG) 5:00. 7:30 THE SANDI.OT (PG) 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 POINT OF No RETURN (R) 10:00 
INDECENT PROPOSAL (R) 4:45, 7:15.9:45 

-~~---~-----~--~--­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, April 22, 1993 
Dispute still lingers over ownership of King papers 
BOSTON (AP) -The tussle between Martin Luther King Jr.'s widow and his alma mater over who owns his personal papers went to court Wednes­day after 20 years of fruitless negotiations. 
Many of the civil rights leader's personal documents, deposited at Boston University in 1964 and 1965, are not be­ing kept where he wanted them, an attorney for Coretta Scott King said in opening ar­guments. 
She sued the university in a bid to turn the papers over to the King Center for Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta. 
The trial in Suffolk County Superior Court may last as long as three weeks. Mrs. King, her son and his close advisers and university President John Silber were expected to testify. 

Lawrence Elswit, a lawyer for the university, said King donated the papers to the school where he received his doctor of philosophy degree in 1955, and never changed his mind. 
Both sides acknowledge King signed a letter on July 16, 1964, naming the Boston Uni­versity Library as the reposi­tory of his papers and saying he intended to give some of them each year as an outright gift to the university. 
"In the event of my death, all such materials deposited with tf\e university shall become from that date the absolute property of Boston University," the letter said. 
NEW YORK (AP) -The question of who will replace David Letterman as host of NBC's "Late Night" has the television industry buzzing on both coasts. Is it to be Garry Shandling? Or will it be a lesser-known, hungry young comic? 
It's a story reporters have been chasing since January, when Letterman disclosed he was ending his nearly 11-year tenure at "Late Night" and moving to CBS, to compete with NBC's Jay Leno and the "Tonight" show. 
NBC said Lorne Michaels, the creator-producer of "Saturday Night Live," would develop a one-hour comedy for the 12:30 
a.m. slot. 

Since then, however, NBC and Michaels have said nothing about the show or its host. "We've taken the position as a 
NBC says Letterman's job open 


company that we're not going to talk about it until we have somebody," said NBC spokesman Curt Block. 
Garry L e t t e r m an , Shandling who starts at 
CBS in August, does his last show at NBC on June 25. Nobody on the inside is talking about his successor at NBC, but that has had no noticeable effect on the trade papers and national dailies. 
The trade journal Media Week reported last week that NBC was looking for a stand-up comedian for the job, and listed comics Drew Carey, Wayne Cotter, Allan Havey, Paul Provenza, Rick Heynolds and Jon Stewart. 
Provenza and Havey had their own shows on cable's Comedy Central, and Reynolds has mounted a one-man show, "Only the Truth Is Funny," but all six men are relatively un­known outside the comedy cir­cuit. 
That same day, The Hollywood Reporter named the same six comics and reported that NBC had held talent showcases at the Improv nightclub. 
On Friday, Daily Variety re­ported that Conan O'Brien, a producer for Fox's "The Simp­sons" and a former "Saturday Night Live" writer, was Michaels' top choice for the job. NBC, the paper said, tested him in a full-fledged talk show run­through on the "Tonight" show set. 
O'Brien and Fox won't com­ment. 


Law keeps abortion seekers safe 
DENVER (AP) -Colorado enacted a unique law this week to provide a 8-foot "bubble" of protection for people entering or leaving abortion clinics. 
The measure, signed Monday by Gov. Hoy Romer, is the first state law of its kind in the nation. It bars demonstrators from coming within 8 feet of visitors or workers outside abortion clinics. 
The anti-abortion group Op­eration Rescue has already said it will challenge the law in court and is unlikely to change its protest tactics. 
"The best way to challenge something like that is to break it," said spokeswoman Wendy Right. "It shows utter contempt for the First Amendment" right to free speech. 
The battle over abortion shows no signs of abating. 

coming within 36 feet of an abortion clinic in Melbourne. On Monday, the only clinic of­fering abortions in Missoula, Mont., was destroyed by fire. 
Legislatures in 26 states con­sidered pro-abortion laws this year in an effort to stem the violence, the National Abortion Rights Action League said. Bills that would protect patients and doctors entering clinics are pending in California, Florida, Nebraska, New Jersey and Vir­ginia, Planned Parenthood said. 
In Colorado, the bubble law won favor from 85 of the state's 100 lawmakers despite impas­sioned testimony in the Repub­lican-controlled Legislature. 
Anti-abortionists claimed abortion rights forces are the aggressive, sometimes violent ones. 
Denver, in testifying against the bill. She said members of her group usually only pray and sing in protest. 
But people who escort pa­tients into abortion clinics in Denver told House and Senate committees they had been pinched, punched and even bitten as they moved sobbing women through a gantlet of 
screaming  anti-abortion  
protesters.  
Volunteer  escorts  said  

protesters hold up placards of aborted fetuses and say: "This is what your baby looks like." 
"People come right into my face trying to get me to push them away," said volunteer escort Virginia Kelly, 65. "I tell them to back off 8 feet and they say we don't have to. They al­most have to have someone willing to file charges." 



CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
Local weekly paper looking for ~ 
someone to join the editorial ~r._~;ydepartment to write sports and ~ -· lear_n all aspects of newspaper -JL l business. Computer, writing and ~l>(#~
photography experience helpful. _~ :~-• 
Call PennySaver Editor Marcia Steffens (219) 282-4457 2102 South Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46613 
In Florida, an abortion doctor "We like to have eye-to-eye 
was killed outside his clinic in contact with the gals who en­Pensacola a month ago, and a ter," said June Harrison, judge barred protesters from leader of Operation Rescue in 

NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF 
are invited to consider
Cora Primavera de Nuestra Senora 
invites 
Members of the Notre Dame Community 


a Prayerful Pilgrimage 
to join them for 
Mass as St. Stephen's Parish 
to Denver, Colorado 
in South Bend 
on 
for 

Sunday, April25, 1993 
World Youth Days

,,,, ~,,~ I illlljllli~lllljjllli 
August 10--16, 1993
IJH' lllil!lliJH 1111
11 

L:lililr-L:lililr 
-Transportation­South Bend/Denver/South Bend By Bus and/or Van 
Vans will leave the Library Circle promptly •t 
9:30a.m. 
For information and sign,ups contact 
The ma;s begJns at 10:15. 
Campus Ministry 
We hope to see you there! 
103 Hesburgh Library Telephone-!,7800 
.~.\,.11)1.....; 
By April 30th.
.·;,!'.'~-­

I ·I • '~-.' Jt . ' ... ,.. ...... ' 
•• ' ~ r • ­

Thursday, April22, 1993 The Observer page7 





COMMITTEE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESENTS A CONFERENCE ON GERMAN UNIFICATION 
APRIL 23-24, 1993 ' 
Taking Stock of German Unification: Merging Old Identities, Forging New Ones? 
April23 April24 
9 a.m.  Reconceiving Cultural Identity  
9 a.m.  Projecting Lessons of the Past on the  
Future  David Bathrick, Cornell University  
"German Intellectuals after Stalinism"  
Jeffrey Herf, (German Historical Institute)  
"Multiple Restorations: German Political  Andreas Graf, Humboldt University, Berlin  
Traditions & the Nazi Past, 1945-1955"  "Unification a.nd the Transformation ofthe  
Media"  
Andy Mark.ovits, University of California,  

Santa Cruz Comment Fred Dallmayr, University of Notre Dame 
"Tht> NPw Germany in the New Eu.rope: From Bundesrepublik to Deutschland" 2p.m. Concludin2 Remarks 
Comment Jim McAdams, University of Notre Dame Konrad Jarausch, U Diversity of North Carolina 
"Processing a New Identity" 
2 p.m. Reconstructin2 Political Identities Roundtable Discussion: Dieter Dettke, Friedrich Eben Gregg Kvistad, University of Denver Foundation; Don Kommers, University of Notre Dame; "Challenges to the Party State in Robert Wegs, University of Notre Dame; Patricia Davis, Unified Germany" University of Notre Dame. 
Myra Marx Ferree, University of Connecticut Supported by the Robert & Elizabeth Nanovic Fund, by the Women and the Wall: Feminism & Consulate General of the Federal Republic of Germany, by the German Unificaton" F?edrich Ebert Foundation, by the Institute for Scholarship in the 
Liberal Arts, and by the Departments of History, Government, Comment Patricia Davis, University of Notre Dame Sociology and German & Slavic Languages, University of Notre Dame. 
5 p.m. Keynote AddreSS ALL SESSIONS ARE OPEN TO THE NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S COMMUNITY AND WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE Welcoming Remarks AUDITORIUM OF THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING 
EDUCATION Dean Harry Attridge, College of Arts & Letters, University of Notre Dame 
Hans Misselwitz, Beauftragter fi.ir Politische Bildung, Land Brandenburg 
"Extremism and Its Social Foundations: Elite Political Response" 




~----------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer Thursday, April 22, 1993 
Palestinians end peace boycott 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Secre­
tary of State Warren M. 
Christopher praised the Pales­
tinians on Wednesday as 
"courageous" for ending a 
week long boycott of Mideast 
peace talks. He urged Israel to 
improve living conditions on 
the West Bank and in Gaza 
and said the negotiations 
could pave the way to 
Palestinian self-government. 
Christopher's conciliatory 
statement followed a decision 
by Arab foreign ministers and 
the Palestinians to resume ne­
gotiations next Tuesday at the 
State Department. "Too much 
time has been lost," he said, 
but otherwise showed no 
irritation with the Arab 
boycott. 
Instead, Christopher called 
Israel's exile in December of 
some 400 Palestinians sus­
pected of supporting violence 
"counterproductive" and an­
nounced Faisal Husseini, a 
prominent Palestinian from 
East Jerusalem, would take 
over as head of the 
Palestinian delegation. 
"We realize that the decision 
to rejoin the talks was a 
difficult one for them to 
make," Christopher said at a 
news conference. "I think it 
was a courageous one and I 
commend them for making 
it." 
Husseini, a strong supporter 
of the Palestine Liberation Or­
ganization, had advised the 
delegation since the negotia­
tions opened in October 1991 
but was barred from the 
deliberations because Israel 
did not want to indicate 
Jerusalem's future was 
negotiable. 
Israeli diplomats said here Monday that Husseini had been accepted in order to give the delegation more authority. Husseini also has a residence in Uamallah on the West Bank. 
The negotiations were scheduled to resume last Tuesday, but the Palestinians declined to attend, citing the deportations, and persuaded Syria, Lebanon and Jordan to join them in the boycott. 
Christopher called the deci­sion to end the impasse "very welcome" and declared: "Now there is an opportunity for the parties to work together and make tangible progress. If the parties are prepared to do their part and to narrow the gaps, we will certainly do ours and play the role of a full partner." 
The Palestinians had de­manded more U.S. involve­ment, an Israeli commitment to cease deportations and respect for their human rights in the territories. They ended the boycott after PLO Chairman Vasser Arafat met in Latakia, Syria, with Syrian President Hafez Assad. 
Christopher said, however, there were perhaps 100 con­versations in the bearing on the suspended negotiations. "I would not want to attribute unusual importance to any one conversation," he said of the Arafat·Assad session. 

Court gives Veltsin victory in confidence 



11¢Country 
LOWEST (7 f. 
R~TNES :.rz_arvester 
CAMPUS 

9rlvrnfay tliro. ~riday 12 to 5 Saturiay 11 to 2 '£\jerufetf :Hours 'During ~inais Lower Levef of La~ortune 
so<t off each box with this ad $100.00 free Insurance! 



Constitutional Court Gives Yeltsin Victory on Referendum Rules 
MOSCOW (AP) -A court handed President Boris Yeltsin a political victory Wednesday, ruling that he needs to secure only a simple majority in this weekend's referendum to win a vote of confidence in his lead­ership. 
The 8-5 ruling by Russia's Constitutional Court overturned election rules set up by the Communist-dominated Congress of People's Deputies for Sunday's plebiscite that would have made it nearly im­possible for Yeltsin to win. 
The ruling made a mixed re­sult at the polls more likely, 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Mexi­cans paid endearing tributes Wednesday to the nation's most famous and best-loved comic actor, Mario Moreno, better known as Cantinflas: 
Cantinflas, 81, who died Tuesday of lung cancer, made 49 films over a half-century but is best-known abroad for his role as Passepartout, the de­voted servant in the 1956 film "Around the World in 80 Days." 
~~ t~tl\1% 
U.P.S. 
SERVICE DAILY 
631-6714 
which would give both the pres­ident and his foes in parliament the ability to interpret the re­sults to their advantage --and thus extend the power struggle that has paralyzed Russia for months. 
More than 20,000 youths marched through the streets of Moscow chanting "Yeltsin! Russia!" before jamming a free heavy metal rock concert next to St. Basil's Cathedral on Wednesday night. The concert, which included folk music and bell ringers, was staged to en­courage voters to cast ballots in the referendum. 
The president's opponents in the Congress had toughened the rules by requiring the president 
Mexican film star dies 
Thousands of mourners gathered Wednesday outside the funeral home where his body was taken. President Carlos· Salinas de Gortari paid his respects there, and was to later attend a tribute at the cap­ital's Palace of Fine Arts. 
"He's gone, but he'll always be with us. He's already a Mexican legend that we will keep alive forever," Salinas told reporters outside the funeral home. 
Trouble-free connections so you won't have a 
win the support of a majority of Russia's 106 million registered voters on the referendum questions -not just a majority of those casting ballots. 
The court, however, threw out the tougher requirements for the first two referendum questions, which ask whether Russians have confidence in Yeltsin's leadership and whether they approve of his economic policies. 
In its ruling, the 13 judges said these questions were not constitutional issues and there­fore required only a simple ma­jority of ballots cast. 
The judges upheld the tougher requirements for the third and fourth referendum questions, which ask voters whether they want new presidential and parliamentary elections. The court said because new elections are constitutional issues, they require approval from a majority of eligible vot­ers. 
That would appear to make it less likely that the two ques­tions on new elections will pass, given widespread voter apathy about the referendum. 
Yeltsin said this month he would interpret a victory on the question of voter confidence as a mandate to wield his presi­dential powers more forcefully, but one of the Constitutional Court justices warned him against doing that. 


and 30 

CELEBRATE!
-.• 
II 

(jf year of celebration for the University Libraries will commence/1. with a Friends of the Library dinner on April 23, at which time we shall celebrate the acquisition of our two-millionth and two­millionth and frrsl volumes. The fonner, a magnificent early printed book entitled Index Preclare Dictorum, the first of the four-volume set of medieval theologian Jean Gerson's Collected Works, is a gift from the rare book collection of Astrik L. Gabriel, director emeritus of the Medieval Institute and long-Lime friend and benefactor of the Libraries. The latter is not a book, but a CD-ROM, selected to represent the changing face of infonnalion as well as its traditional past. Donated to the University Libraries by the Friends of the Library at Notre Dame, it is The Oxford English Dictionary, Second Edition --to be networl.ed for simultaneous access by a~ many as ten users. 
The festivities will culminate in the spring of I <)<.)4 with the celcbrauon of the Theodore M. Hesburgh Library's 30th anniversary. The celebration will include lectures, exhibiL~. a community open house :JnJ a book on the history of the lihraries at Notre Dame. Also pending arc plans for a community book fair and a conference on tl1c dcvelopmcm of Catholic research libraries. 
We look forward LO your participation in tlw ahove evcnL-;, wh~eh collectively will celehrate the growth and progress of the Univer'>IL)' Libraries and the many individuals and groups wii110ut whom UIL'Y would not have been possihlc. 








Viewpoint 

Thursday, April 22, 1993 page 9 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ...•.•... Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor ....•. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ••.•••••.••George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Edltor .......•.•..•.•. Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor •.•.................•.. Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Single-sex dorms define ND 
"School's bad enough, but if you place a child anywhere near a church, then you're really asking for trouble." 
Frank Zappa 

You are what you is, so submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 
fARATr 8UT TH&YAr7Rf£[) TO MAl<& THI31Ra:AL­IJJ!7H YOU! 
~ 

YaJf)ffiN'T (!£!"ITIN IAJF.mN6, HON&Y.' 50 NOlA/ IAJ& 60TTA 8/i!&AI< aJF. N&CI<S TO G&T 
ON AIR fiRST/ 
\ 

l)ear Editor: 
That's it. I've had it with peo­ple (especially politically correct lefties) trashing Notre Dame; especially its conservative cha­racter. 
Most recently, Kurt Mills, in another in his series of liberal diatribes, can't find anything good about the fact that Notre Dame maintains its "anach­ronistic policy of single sex dorms." Well, Kurt, let's eonsider some things. 
First, this is still a Roman Catholic university. I know you and many others here have a hard time accepting that and all it entails, but thankfully it is the truth. In this capacity, the ad­ministration has made a deci­sion, and continues to stick by it, that sex outside of marriage is wrong, and should not be fa­cilitated. 
At a Catholic school (if not in America as a whole, for which there would also be some sound a.rguments-on that topic look 
a.t 
William Bennett's recent work) that makes perfect sense. Moreover, for all of those "sexually frustrated" un­dergraduates you speak of, there are obvious alternatives. They ean move off campus, get 

a. 
hotel, or take their chances. 


With its policy, however, Notre Dame has rightly decided not to condone something it has every 
IIIOONESBURY 
right and duty not to condone. And make no mistake, you were right about one thing-of course parietals are largely aimed at preventing premarital sex in the dorms and all that goes with it, including uneasy confrontations between roommates. 
Beyond that, and more im­portantly, however, let's look at the types of people Notre Dame turns out. First, I must say that I cast no aspersions on other colleges/universities; including the far more "enlightened" (but unidentified) place where Mr. Mills attended. I can say, though, that having worked around this country and the world for the four years after I graduated from Notre Dame before returning for law school, there are no classier, more loyal, better people than Domers. Experience has taught me that they are among the best in our society. 
Say what you want about re­lations between the sexes here, but I'll take our graduates ten­fold when times are tough and people need help, or when the job needs to get done, over anybody else. This is called character, and it's developed gradually over time (not just be­tween the ages of 18 and 22). 
Moreover, employers almost always comment about how "loyal" ND grads are to their school, above and beyond grads of any others (save, perhaps, the service academies). Would graduates be so Joyal to a school which so obviously dis­serves them in the manner of which you, and others like you, complain? 
My point, therefore, is that apparently Notre Dame is doing something right. Why, there­fore, change? For the mere sake of change? That's the fun­damental difference between liberalism and conservatism. 
Liberalism constantly refers to a utopia which will never ex­ist (i.e. men and women living together without acknowledging sex as an issue). and con­servatism bases decisions on what we know from history, experience, and nature (i.e. if encouraged, men and women between the ages of 18 and 22 will do lots of things that aren't good for them-as will older people i many cases). The good thing about a place like Notre Dame is that it cares enough to recognize that fact oflife. 
By the way, the undersigned freely admits that a few short years ago he was one who could not complain enough about "in loco parentis." Experience has taught me its wisdom. 
Frank T. Pimentel Law School April 20, 1993 

'If you feel it, do it' is an absurd perspective 
New policy will make finals 'ever so more enjoyable' 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing concerning an irony, more of a contradiction actually, that I noticed in the April 1 and April 2 editions of the Observer. I was struck by the contrast between the Ab­surder's promotion of a very casual view of sex as simply a recreation, just one of those things that people do that has no consequences, and two Viewpoint letters in the next is­sue from date-rape survivors. 
The two women told a very different story-their sexual ex­perience, rape, was very seri­ous, and brought serious and painful emotional conse­quences. I know that the Ab-
Dear Editor: 
I would like to extend my sin­cerest gratitude to the appro­priate administrative officials for the wonderful graduation gift they have given me. After spending upwards of $70,000 to go here, I am to be given the honor of spending my final three weeks as an undergrad­uate in what amounts to (to be generous) a hospital room. 
I am sure that this will make my last month here ever so much more enjoyable. I am also certain that the quality of the thesis due the week before and of the two papers due the week after the 25th will in no way suffer from this added time constraint. Were it not that my roommate would also be punished, I would gladly not comply and pay the $100 fine and let that serve as my alum­nae donation for the next few years. 
Catherine A. Hechmer Knott Hall April 15, 1993 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
surder was just for fun, and I'm definitely not saying that it promoted rape. However, the reality is, judging from letters from rape survivors, that sex can have powerful emotional ramifications and is something that should be taken seriously. 
The reality of rape here and in society seems to be a sign for us, as Christians or merely as people concerned for the feel­ings of others, to challenge and reevaluate our culture's "if you feel it, do it" attitude toward sex of which the Absurder was merely a product. 
Todd Schmidt 
Morrissey Hall 
April 19, 1993 





Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, April 22, 1993 

God is too busy with the world to hate homosexuals 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A new form of classification is not a legitimate solution 
Dear Editor: South American culture. mate, one denies me the right me that "leveling the playing As a child, were you encour­
By stating that I am unaware to ally myself with my race as ground" would actually require aged to play with dolls? Do you 
A few weeks ago, the issue of of exactly what my "white" any member of a minority that our society would work to realize that you will statistically reverse-racism was brought identity entails, I do not wish to group seems to be encouraged correct these inequalities that do an unfair sharn of the forward in a letter to the editor say that minority groups who to do. children are born into, rather housework, even if you hold a by Mr. Sheahan explaining his feel that their identity needs to than. later, creating new job outside the home, when you bookstore basketball team's be reaffirmed should not be I do not mean to dismiss the inequalities after the initial arc married'! llow can you ex­denial to use "Ivory Side of the given the opportunity to do so. concerns of minorities in Amer­inequalities have taken effect. pect to do anything about this Dome" as their team's name. In I'm simply pointing out that, ica as unworthy of considera­It seems to me that rewarding yourself. or even with a group response, Miss Spencer wrote although I live in a primarily tion. Instead, I wish to show those minorities who work h ·1 of women'? Possibly you are a explaining that minorities have "white" culture, I am not sure that legitimizing racial concerns and want to succeed \. woman who wants government not been "playing on a level how best to express my Euro­for one group should, in an advantages in the work-place intervention. I, however, am a playing ground," and should, as pean heritage. But I certainly equal society, legitimize racial only serves to skim off the top woman who feels that the best a matter of compensation, be could not ask the administra­concerns for all groups. I minorities, while leaving the way to combat this sexism is to granted the right to affirmative tion to help me address my realize, however, our culture rest of the group where they work to establish myself as an action and to form minority concerns by allowing me the does not always live by this started -at the bottom. individual that any man or student groups. right to form an association of standard of equality. That is Wouldn't it be better to try to woman can respect. In doing so, 
Miss Spencer certainly has students with European Her­what affirmative action is sup­bring everyone onto an equal I provide other won:wn with the taken the politically-correct itage, nor could I approach SUB posed to correct. But wait. Af­playing ground rather than opportunity to be respected. viewpoint to heart. She has with the proposal of supporting firmative action corrects past bringing a few minorities to a I suppose I could complain opened herself up to see a ma­a lecture-series addressing the discrimination by replacing one playing ground tipped in their and demand an advantage in jor problem in our society and question: "What does a new set of inequalities with new favor? society because I have not been feels she knows how to correct presidential administration inequalities. Somehow, this does socialized in the same way my it. means to Caucasians in Amer-not seem to be just, nor does it Miss Spencer, you state that white male counterparts have 
.
ICa.?" address the roots of the you have been given "an unfair been, but to do so would not 
I first would like to address The case could even be made problem. advantageous position" because change anyone's actual opinion her apparent lack of under­that these concerns should take The problem seems to be with of your white skin. However, of me. I would still be seen as a standing of Mr. Sheahan's ar­priority over minority student the unequal schooling (and you, too, have been discrimi­weak woman who needs a man ticle. Although he does address concerns, as they affect a very violent societies) with which nated against because you are to help me out. If I work to help the affirmative-action issue, his large portion of the student many minorities grow up. female. I'm sure you've heard myself out, I will be seen as an main point seems to be that body directly. If one denies Maybe I'm only speaking from derogatory terms directed to­equal. racism in any form is still these concerns as being legiti-"lofty idealism," but it seems to wards females: skirt, chick, etc. I realize that Miss Spencer's racism. When an opinion is 
views on affirmative action only formed of a person based pri­stem from her desire for an marily on that person's race, equal society. I just wonder if one cannot deny that racism is her realism stems from a fear taking place. that a truly equal playing 
Miss Spencer explains that ground will not result in all white students do not need races achieving equally. support through others because these students are constantly If all races are truly equal, reaffirmed of their "white" then equality in the socializa­identity. Now, maybe I am an tion process should result in exception, but I am not aware equality in the social environ­of what my white identity is. ment. I realize that this view Dons my white identity mean dismisses, to a certain degree, that I listen to music the needs of those born into an reaffirming my identity as a already unequal society. This is Caucasian? Does this mean that a problem to which I do not I celebrate my "whiteness" have an answer, but to prevent through traditional dress from a new set of inequalities, we my European heritage? Do I must not legitimize a new form ally myself with great white of classification based upon leaders throughout history'? I race or sex. suppose to a certain degree I appreciate the "Caucasian cul­Robin Dusek ture," but I also appreciate Breen-Phillips Hall aspects of Asian, African, and April 18, 1993 
When most people think of a funeral, they think of a serene scene and quiet words of prayer, as well as heartfelt words of comfort and consola­tion. 
Hev. Fred Phelps must see it differently. Fred is a Primitive Baptist minister in Topeka, Kansas, and after reading this, you might wonder just how primitive he really is. 
According to a story in the April 9th edition of the South Bend Tribune, Fred has made a habit of going to funerals of homosexual AIDS victims to picket.That's right. Picket. 
He holds up signs that say things like "God Hates Fags: Homans 9:13." In at least one case, he also sent a letter to the victim's parents announcing in advance that he would be there to offer his opinions. 
I guess he thought these peo­ple just weren't suffering enough. Is he aware that his preaching may not be welcome at these funerals? According to the article, he either doesn't realize this or just plain doesn't care. "Do 'em a world of good, this preaching," he says. 
Oh, sure. We can all see him doing a lot of good at a funeral, can't we? Haven't you ever gone to a funeral and wished some small-minded homophobe masquerading as a man of the cloth would come up to you uninvited and tell you how much God hated the person you are burying? . 

How many of us can picture Christ going to Lazarus' tomb and saying, "Oh, good. The guy was a sinner, and he deserved to die. Meanwhile, while I have you all here, let me preach to you a little .... " 
This is more than just saying that homosexuality is a sick­ness, a disorder or even a sin. This is going to a grieving fam­ily and friends and saying, "God hates your loved one, and so do I. 
This is worse than even Notre Dame's homophobia. Sure, Fa­ther Malloy can't "resolve" the homosexual way of life with the Christian faith, and, sure, Notre Dame still bans that certain group of gay and lesbian students, but at least he doesn't go to funerals and tell mourners that God doesn't love people 
Ideas and Ideals 
Paul Pearson 

who have the wrong sexual orientation. 
Of course, you could make the argument that Notre Dame's ostracization of homosexual students is just as bad as Fred's picketing of funerals, but that's something everyone has to decide for her/himself. 
In a rare sign of intelligent life in politics, the Kansas Legis­lature decided to pass a law banning such demonstrations at funerals. Fred intends to ignore this law ("It's not likely that any tacky little old city ordinance or state law or act of Congress is going to stop me," he says), but at least now the police can do the proper thing and remove him from a funeral where he doesn't belong. 
Now, wait a minute, you're saying. What is one of Notre Dame's most notorious bleed-ing-heart liberals doing defend­ing a law that limits an idiot's right to free speech? Shouldn't he be ranting on about the First Amendment and how Thomas Jefferson must be rolling in his grave and all that radical left­wing stuff? 
It's simple. We don't have the First Amendment right to shout "Fire!" in a crowded theater. And mourners don't need to lose the right to bury the dead in peace just because a zealot with the title "Rev." feels like abusing his First Amendment rights. 
Even radical left-wingers like myself have our limits. If Ollie North were in the hospital, l wouldn't go to his ward and tell him that he deserves to be hung. If Magic Johnson died tomorrow, I wouldn't go to his funeral wearing a Celtics jacket. Likewise, I don't think the First Amendment gives people the right to annoy mourners in their hour of grief. 
Of course, you don't have to be a radical left-winger to think that Fred is not doing the right thing. Elder W.II. Cayce, who publishes The Primitive Baptist newsletter, says that his fellow Primitive Baptist is screwing up. "I wouldn't think that adding to anyone's grief or sorrow at a funeral would be the right approach," he says. 
Unfortunately, Cayce still thinks that "there's something that needs to be done." The only thing that needs to be done is that people like Fred need to be informed that his little 'sympathy cards' and other expressions of homophobia aren't welcome in caring Christian societies. 
God is too busy running the universe to hate homosexuals. (Oh, for those of you who are wondering about Humans 9:13, the verse goes something like this: "As it is written, 'I loved Jacob, but Esau I hated."' Fred has concluded that God hated Esau because he was homo­sexual, although to my knowl­edge the Bible doesn't back this assumption. 
Paul Pearson is a senior ,lmerican studies major at Notre Dame. lie was previously associate news editor for The Observer. 

----------~ ~~--------~----~--------­


Accent 
Thursday, April 22, 1993 page 11 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Viewpoint Editor 
The still-burgeoning Notre Dame music scene offers two new compact discs this week. One longs for Notre Dame's favorite acoustic threesome, while the other quickly glances at 16 campus musical groups. 
Brian, Colin and Vince's A Bucket o' Fun n' Stuff n' Yeah is consistently extraordinary, mixing lyrics which are at once fun and insightful, two acoustic guitars and a little percussion. The group's second album (a tape from 1992 will be re-released soon) is a document testifying that Vince Buonaccorsi, Colin Clary and Brian Muller simply make re­ally neat music together. 
From the first harmonization of "Yahtzee" until the last notes of "Green, Red and Blue DM" have faded, A Bucket o' Fun n' Stuff n' Yeah takes every part­time Brian, Colin and Vince fan on an enjoyable little trip. 
The first "Yahtzee/Green, Red and Blue" is an energized couple of songs which fling the listener into a good mood. The CD closes with another rendition of the two songs, which lasts about seven minutes and sounds like a 45-rpm single turned down to 33. 
Every one of the album's 53 minutes is solid, and the CD's best tracks, like "Tied Up in Memories" and "Hypothetical Situation," are the epitome of what real pop music should be: frank and honest revelations of thoughts and emotions, set to memorable tunes. 
Brian, Colin and Vince play it as well as anyone, and do it very consistently. 
Incubus 1993, released by Student Union Board, is a gathering of campus bands, and as the disc's title suggests, a sort of incubator for their respective sounds. Like all compilations, the CD has hills and valleys. But while the valleys are smooth and nice to look at, the biggest hill is Himalayan-huge, rocky and downright frightening. 
"Dream Bar" lets everybody know why Chisel won last weekend's NAZZ competition, and makes us all wonder when the band will cut an album. Ted Leo's scream-singing and guitar playing, allied with the thrilling rollercoaster rhythms of drummer John Dugan and bassist Chris Norborg, make Chisel the most exciting group at Notre Dame. 

Golf tournament to benefit injured rugby player 
By JEANNE BLASI 
ccent Writer 

While uncertainty about career plans · s common to many seniors as the year Ninds down, one senior athlete faces a Jifferent type of uncertainty-Notre )arne Rugby player Todd Broski is ·Jowly learning to cope with paralysis. 
After suffering a serious neck injury undergoing surgery, Broski's Jrognosis is still unsure. He is currently the intensive care unit at Case estern University hospital in Cleveland vhere he will remain for several weeks 
he begins the rehabilitation process. Broski is currently paralyzed and loctors do not know how much mobility 
will regain. Todd, his family and 

riends can only wait patiently and take 
ach day as it comes. 

But Broski's hopes are high and his 'riends agree that he can overcome his hysical adversity. 
"Todd is the type of person who gives 
II he has, and then gives more," said 
Jumni Hall senior Hich Riley. "If anyone 

The same was true two years ago, 
Incubus 1993 
**** (out of five) 
Bucket o' Fun n' Stuff n' Yeah 
Brian, Colin & Vince ****1/2* 
when Chisel's "Swamp Fox/Spike," along with a host of pathetically bad tracks, made WVFI's The Jericho Sessions worth $10. But Incubus 1993 is a major improvement over that compilation, and costs less. 
While Leo bounces around on stage 

can come through this based on strength and spirit, it's him." . 
Broski's friends have not forgotten his strength and spirit and have organized "The Todd Broski Golf Open" in order to defer high medical costs for the Broski family. 
"Todd has always been known as a giving person," said Jim Guerrera, Broski's roommate. "This is a chance for the Notre Dame community to give a little back, and have fun at the same time." 
The tournament is set for this Saturday, May 8, at the Notre Dame golf course. Though the tournament is a scramble, meaning that four people play together for one score by playing the best ball. individual prizes will also be awarded. Many local area businesses have donated prizes and gift certificates from restaurants and apparel stores in the South Bend area. 
Prizes will be awarded to individuals for the longest drive, the drive closest to the pin, and the longest putt at designated holes. In addition to these (Chisel performs tonight at Club 23), the other two charismatic, energetic Notre Dame frontmen are also getting a work­out on disc. 


Victoria's Real Secret.singer Steve Sostak leads his troupe (which includes Incubus 1993 executive producer Ryan Hallford) through "Fish." Loaded with musical and lyrical hooks, this is likely the group's most accessible pop song. and is probably the catchiest tune on the compilation. 
XYZ Affair and Chisel are the only Jericho Sessions alumni which return, relatively unchanged, to Incubus 1993. Lead singer Todd Rozycki is still singing like Eddie Vedder and kicking like Craig Hentrich. "Peter Pan Syndrome" is an enormous improvement over the Jericho Sessions' "World on Its Side," the band having lost the seventies groove which cut through its long-developed South Bend sound. 
prizes, a special grand prize will bt') 
awarded to the person who makes a 
hole inone on a designatedpar 3. 
The tournament is open to the public 
for $35 per player and at a discounted 
rate of $10 for students. The tournament 
will have a shotgun start for the public 
at 8 a.m. with complimentary coffee, 
donuts, and carts, while students tee-off 
at 1 p.m. The entrance fee also includes 
the greens fee. 

Anyone may register for the Todd 
Broski Golf Open at the Notre Dame golf 
course at the LaFortune information 
desk. On-campus students may contact 
their dorm representative to register. 
Students off~campus may contact 
Brendan Moriarty apt. 206 Bldg. 54655 
at campus view or Art Monaghan at apt. 
11 at Lafayette Square. 
Any other donations are greatly 
appreciated and can be dropped off at 
one of the registration points on~ 
campus. Please make checks payable to 
the University of Notre Dame/Todd ·Broski fund. · 
Two exceptional female voices show up on Incubus 1993. Felicia Gallegos, of Thee Accent, and Emily Lord both carry their mellow tunes well, though Lord's "Angelina" is brought down by a saxophone accompaniment. Without the sax. the song would be one of Incubus's best tracks. With it, "Angelina" is earthbound. Thee Accent's song is the only track which programmers would classify as neither rock nor folk. A vo­calist's song. "I Don't Look Back" stands out primarily because of its difference from the Incubus norm. 
Mr. Head's "Weather" shines among a bevy of relatively tame tracks toward the end of the disc. Dave Holsinger's bass gives "Weather" a full-bodied sound, and Joe Cannon's songwriting is much more subtle and effective than it was on The Jericho Sessions' "Censorship is a Lie." 
Of course, where would a compilation of Notre Dame bands be without immature songwriting? The Doghaus of this compilation is Bother. "Kill the Popular Kids" is a whole lot of fun, but will probably make most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students very nervous. Then again, that w iS probably the song's intent. 
Grope For Luna is surprisingly fresh. "In the Crowd" is fun at first, but its apparently absurd lyrics and spark the question: how long will the fun last? Similarly, Palace Laundry, 2-10 and the Bovine Solution give the guilty pleasure that bands Chronic Desire gave to most Jericho Sessions listeners. 
"My Name is Sky," by the Sister Chain, sounds a lot like an Indigo Girls cover, but the environmental bent of the lyrics is much less subtle and interesting. 
Brian, Colin and Vince contribute "Yahtzee/Green, Red and Blue" to Incubus 1993, but for a true appreciation of this intriguing band, listen to A Bucket o' Fun n' Stuff n' Yeah. 
A Bucket o' Fun n' Stuff n · Yeah is available from Sudden Shame, 2 Cypress Lane, Essex Jet., VT 05452. Or call Colin Clary at (219) 289-2482. 
Incubus 1993 is available from Student Union Board or at the compact disc's release party. tonight at LaFortune Student Center. 
Both CDs cost $8.00. 
-
> 
Double music release 

Campus talent showcased in new CD compilation 
... r page 12 The Observer Thursday, April 22, 1993 
... 

t St. Louis, Detroit, Calgary, Vancouver win in playoffs
I 
I 
(AP) St. Louis goaltender Curtis than any goaltender since the and Quebec at Montreal in the Hull and Dave Lowry scored in and Sunday night. 
Joseph faced a lot of shots NIIL began keeping that statis­Adams. Pittsburgh, Buffalo and the first period for all the goals The Red Wings, just as they did in the opener, broke open
during the regular NIIL seas!ln, tic in 1982-83. Quebec all lead their best-of-7 Joseph needed. and nothing's changed in the "He had a combination of luck series 2-0, while the Islanders "He was absolutely unbeliev­Game 2 with a quick flurry of and Capitals are tied 1-1. able," said Blues coach Bob second-period goals. The Red
Stanley Cup playoffs. and excellence tonight -more Berry of Joseph. "He's been Wings scored three goals in the
The Blues, who finished a excellence than luck," said Joseph gave the surprising middle period to take a 4-2
distant fourth, 21 points behind Brett Hull, who scored his sec­Blues a chance to win the Nor­unbelievable for us all season 
the front-running Blackhawks ond game-winner of the series. ris Division semifinal series and tonight he was spectacu­lead. 
in the Norris Division, are two­"You don't expect to shut these without returning to Chicago. lar." Red Wings 6, Maple Leafs Goaltender Tim Cheveldae guys out." The Blues could win it with 2 played another solid game for
up on them in the playoffs fol­lowing Wednesday night's 2-0 In other games on Wednesday victories at home Friday and Steve Yzerman scored two Detroit, making 28 saves. victory over Chicago. Leading night, it was Detroit 6, Toronto Sunday. second-period goals as the Hed "We were very undisciplined 
Wings defeated the Maple Leafs right off the bat, and we can't
the way was Joseph, who made 2; Calgary 9, Los Angeles 4; and "Sometimes things go well for you," Joseph said. "You get in to take a 2-0 lead in their Norris do that against a team like
47 saves in one of his best Vancouver 3, Winnipeg 2. cluteh performances of the sea­The playoffs continue today the right spot at the right time. Division series. this," Toronto center Peter Tonight I had a few lucky After two games at Joe Louis Zezel said. "We've gotten off 
son. with Pittsburgh at New Jersey Arena, the best-of-7 series our game, and we are playingJoseph is no stranger to being and Washington at the New breaks. The guys played real 
York Islanders in the Patrick well in front of me and the shifts to Maple Leaf Gardens in their style. We can't do that at
peppered. He faced 2,202 shots in the regular season, more Division, and Boston at Buffalo penalty-killing was superb." Toronto for games Friday night home. 


The ObseNer accepts classifieds every busmess day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. a\ 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
HELP! I'm looking to rent an  CALL NOW 4-4673  Jeannette at 4-4508  THE NOTRE DAME DEBATE  HORSES ON CAMPUS?  
NOTICES  apartment for the summer session. Roommates are fine -preferably  MOVING OFF CAMPUS?  TEAM is currently accepting applications for a part-time debate  ...S.WHAT IS HIGHER, THE CROSS ON SACRED HEART OR  
male. Please call X4238.  SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM  Bedroom Furniture for sale.  coach. If interested, send a resume,  MARY ON THE DOME?  
TYPING 256-6657  HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN.  Call Karen 271-7926  two leiters of recommendation, and  
Need a ride to Philiy/South Jersey  GREAT RATES! AVAIL.  a list of previous debate  AnTostal Trivia AnTostal Trivia  
Kim and Meg rock the world!  after finals? Cali Michele X4117.  NOW,SUMMER & FALL.272-6306  WEDDING GOWN,  achievements to the Vice President  
"DEMETRIOS", SIZE 6.  of Student Affairs  
Fortune 500 Company continuing to  We need a 3rd roommate for our  ••students••  GORGEOUS. NEVER WORN.  University of Notre Dame  
expand internationally. Seeking  summer apt!!!( rent will be low)  Now renting 1300 sq It condos at  $500. 271-5632.  315 Main Building  
persons interested in becoming  OakHill. Joannie 273-9406 Corie  College Park Condominiums. All  Notre Dame. IN 46556  All electronic band looking for a  
integral players in the growth of this  x2358  units include:  keyboardist for next year  
business. Regions targeted include Europe, S. and Latin America, and  The Southwestern Company is  -Security systems, -Hard wood floors,  TICKETS  DEADLINE: May 1.  Call Hung X1181 David X2197  
Pacific Rim. After 3 pm, call 257­ interviewing students for summer  -All appliances,  Doctor and teacher will make  
5283, or 683-3195 for more  work opportunities in sales.  -Washer & dryer in unit,  HelpiHelp!Heip! I need grad tickets\  dreams for your baby come true.  
information.  Students typically earn $4,000­ -Large balconies,  If you have extra call Joe@ 277­ Full-time parenting. Best of the city;  ANSWERS TO ANTOSTAL TRIVIA  
$7,000 their first summer and gain  -Gas utilities,  4273.  summers by the beach. Your baby  1 . Good Morning Vietnam  
March on Washington for lesbian,  tremendous resume experience.  -Free covered parking,  rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace  2. Lethal Weapon 3  
gay and bisexual equal rights and  Stop by Dooley Room on first floor  -2 large bedrooms,  I NEED 2 RETURN FLIGHTS  in winter, and by ocean waves in  3. Vacation  
liberations. We will be there! Look  LaFortune for more info and the  -2 full bathrooms,  FROM SARASOTA OR TAMPA TO  summer. Art. music, the best  4. Caddyshack  
for our banner and our NO apparel.  opportunity to meet other NO  -Only 1/4 mile from door of  SOUTH BEND OR CHICAGO ON  education, endless love. Call  5. Trading Places  
ILOST & FOUND I  students who have worked in past summers. Representatives there Thursday, April 22. Stop by at 1:30,  Hesburgh library. For appt. -272-0691 or see Off­Campus Housing office.  MAY23 CALL RICH, 631-5370  Franny or Stephen collect. (212) 369-2597.  ANTOSTAL TRIVIA  
4:30, or 7:00  I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR SMC  
LOST: Colored Gold Bracelet  Casual Attire. No experience  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  GRADUATION(IN CASE OF RAIN).  ••golf"golf"golf"golf"golf"golf""  NEVER FORGET THE EWE!!!  
during Christm&s in April. Great  necessary.  KITCHEN, PHONE,  PLEASE CALL ROBIN X4399.  $'$'$'$"$"$"$"$"$"$"$"$"$"  She will return, oh yes, she will!  
Sentimental ValueiiiiiReward. Cali  5 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS.  
Karen 2608  WANTED TO BUY: dorm size  272-0615.  I have extra commencement  WIN PRIZES\  
refrigerator (1 or 1&1/2 cubic It). Will  tickets  Sign up for the  OINK\ OINK! OINK!  
LOST-PAIR OF GLASSES In a dark leather case . Feb 26  pay cash. Cali Tim 631-7646 from 8-4:30, M-F.  FOR SALE  Call Bobby 273-WOGG  TODD BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF TOURNAMENT  ITS PIG TOSTAL V  
around Cushing Hall area.  1 WY-TICKET-MAY 31ST  AND THE PIG'S LOOSE  
PLEASE! Help me have them  ROOMATES NEEDED, SUMMER  1-WY TCKT MAY 17  S.B.->ANCHORAGE. ALASKA  Saturday, May 8, 1993  IN OUR BACKYARD,  
before the summer. I don't have$ for  AND NEXT YEAR. PLEASE CALL  S. BND to SAN JOSE  Dan @4552 or 1-4308, $200  $10 Student entrance fee  SO COME ON OVER  
new ones!  289-9353 & LEAVE A MESSAGE.  $200 obo Julie x2762  $35 Staff/Public entrance fee  AND HELP US SPEAR ITI  
Any info please call X4367  Like SODO others, I too NEED  
SUZANA  I need a large backpack for  91 GEO Storm GSI, 17Kmi, 5 spd,  Sign ups at the LaFortune  HURRY!!II WOOOO ....  
summer travel in Europe II  A/C, Red, Exc Cond &$8500 277­ GRAD TIX II But I' m a swell  Information Desk, the Pro  
LOST LOST LOST  callx3604  3956.  Shop(behind the Rock), or with a  SUMMER STORAGE  
Lost MO afternoon either in front of  guy, so call KJ @ 273-2958  Dorm representative  Convenient, Secure Location  
stadium (E side) or in front of Library (S side, TO. J) :DIGITAL DIARY. Casio SF 4000, of personal  FOR RENT  LIVING OFF-CAMPUS? NEED FURNITURE? WE HAVE IT ALLII  PERSONAL  ENTER NOW!  Reasonable Rates 287·0918 COUNSELORS: CAMP EMERSON,  
value to me. please call: x6609  SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4  CALL 273-281 0  ••other donations accepted  coed, Massachusetts. Swimming,  
(am) or 273-8938 (pm) (Volker)  bdrms, close to campus,.safe  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  and appreciated  tennis, land/water sports, arts/crafts,  
neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all  Cathedral ceiling and open living  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  ••all proceeds to defer medical  archery, theatre, woodworking,  
Found:  utilities. Call Monica  areas in this new 1350 sq.ft., 3  Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  costs for Todd  rocketry, computer. yearbook,  
4-17-93 women's ring found in 02  232-2794.  bedroom, 2 bath ranch. Just 3  46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  $'$'$'$"$'$"$"$'$'$'$"$'$'  photography, administrative, morel  
parking lot. Call Maureen @ 4-4711  blocks east of NO campus and built  ••golf"golf'golf"golf"golf'golf"  Super kids, great food, friendly, fun!  
to claim  OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT!  by CRESCENT HOMES.  ADOPTION: THE GIFT OF LOVE ­ No general counselors. (800) 955­ 
1 Br wlloft, 2 Bth, fireplace,  273-2754.  Give yourself, your baby and us a  CAMP.  
"Lost at Senior Formal in  WID, garage, 12 mo. lease. Call Bill  brighter future! We are a loving,  &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&  
Chicago• 1 roll of completed  or Caroline at  OAKHILL CONDO-Close to  secure, Catholic. Caucasian couple.  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  
film with 2 months of pictures •  317-297 ·8485.  campus, 1,900 sq. ft., 4 bdrm, 3  Call Patti & Greg, Collect: (616)  PLAY ANTOSTAL TRIVIA  Jet there anytime for only $169 from  
EXTREME sentimental value ­ bath, LIKE NEW. Great place to  629-9037  trivia antostal play  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  
if found, PLEASE call Mary at  Turtle Creek townhouse  live. Excellent investment  PLAY ANTOSTAL TRIVIA  (when available) with AIRHITCH!  
46191  6/1-mid-Aug.  opportunity. Asking $83,750.  Are you interested in living in  (Reported in Let's Gol & NY  
Furnished -$400/mo  273-9204.  DISMAS HOUSE next fall??? See  &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&  Times.) AIRHITCH (r)  
WANTED  Matt 634-3332.  Kathy Royer in the CSC or call Jon @ 271-1938.  APRIL 28-NEXT WEDNESDAY ­ 212-864-2000.  
Looking to sublet this summer?  Great Loft For Sale  IS THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT ­ Contact x1505 about space  $45  Adopt: we are truly loving couple  THE OBSERVER.  in LaFortune Student Center  
Make money teaching basic  at Turtle Creek.  x3604  who can bring love and happiness  THERE WILL BE A SENIOR  QUALITY COPIES  
conversational English abroad.  to your white newborn. We offer  COMMENCEMENT ISSUE ON  as low as 3¢ each  
Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000­ Summer sublet: furnished  financial security and a great future  FRIDAY, MAY 14.  OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK  
$4,000+ per month. Many provide  2 bdrm house near campus  in our oceanside home.  
room & board + other benefits! No  AC, nice yard, $300  One SMC Approved White  Medical/legal expenses covered. 1­ Two Pangborn Freshman  HELP! I need ride to Madison, WI  
previous training or teaching  Dave 232-7970  Loft !I  800-438-6599 eves.  seek pick-up truck and driver to  weekend of 4/23. Will help w/ gas  
certificate required. For International  Please buy it because I  help transport belongings to storage  & tolls. Please call Shannon at  
Employment program, call the  3-5 person furnished house. sec  need cash .. now! You name  Good luck Whitney Wilds on final  on 4/25/93. please don't make us  X2822  
International Employment Group:  system, wash/dry, beach V-ball,  the price ..s;all Nicole x.5193  exams. We're proud of your  walk .... call x2348 $$$  
(206) 632-1146 ext. J5584.  prime location. $500. 109 N. St.  accomplishments. Enjoy San Diego  
Peter, 233-9947.  One Way 'Ticket. May 9  -The Stone Family  AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA  
- ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $600+/week in  2 ROOMS W/QUEEN BEDS AVAIL.  SOUTHBENOtoBOSTON $200, or Best Offer. x2601  ATTN: SUMMER SCHOOL  What the heck? It's wild and wacky AnTostal TRIVIA 1!!1!1  SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF  
canneries or $4000+/month on  GRAD WKEND.NICELY DECOR. 3  STUDENTS  TOURNAMENT!!!  
fishing boats. Free transportation!  MIN. TO CAMPUS. ADULTS OVER  87 Chevy Nova for sale by senior  winners receive ANTOSTAL T­ 
Room & Board\ Over 8000  30 PREF. $170/WKEND/ROOM.  who is moving to NYC and can't  $5.50 Haircuts  SHIRTS and CUPS I  SATURDAY MAY 8  
openings. No experience  277-8340.  afford to keep it there. Excellent  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  The rules:  OPEN TO ALL  
necessary. Male or Female. For  shape, air cond, pull out stereo, 4D.  1523 Lincolnway West  1. place answers to the questions  
employment program call 1-206­ APARTMENT FOR SUMMER  $3000 or b.o.. Call Mike at 271­ South Bend, IN  below on a piece of paper  SIGN UP AT THE PRO SHOP IN  
545-4155 ext.A5584  2 brm furn.,rent $100.mo.  0157.  233-4767  2. include your name and telephone  BACK OF THE ROCK OR WITH  
Avail. 5/10 -8/9 Must be stud.  number  YOUR DORM REP  
COUNSELORS, summer camp tor  Ph. 271 8900  SALE SALE SALE SALE  How many Bookstore Basketball  3. turn into box at LaFortune  
developmentally disabled, June 12­ great stereo and bed for sale  teams were named after John Gacy  Information Desk by 6 pm today  GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS!\  
Aug 21, Orlando, FL (407) 889­ ROOM FOR RENT. Privacy, Util.  at a very very good price  in 1979?  4.10 winners will be drawn at  
8088.  incl., Must see. Male preferred, ph  call edward at 271-1365  Read 50 pages worth of names in:  random from correct entries  
291-9093  Look Out For The Manhole Cover,  received  
RB  APARTMENT SALE  available now in the bookstore!  M/VWINVVIMNIMII  
sofa-sleeper, double beds,  Thursday's trivia:  play play play play play play  
Hey! I need a ride to NYC  dressers, end-tables. kitchen table,  •••1 WHERE ARE CADAVERS  
area after finals. Will pay  Don't stay on-campus this  desk, TV/stereo stand  What's the significance of the Cape  STORED ON CAMPUS?  TRIVIA antostal TRIVIA antost  
expenses. Call Jess X2725  summer-SUB-LEASE our 2-bdrm.  ••priced to sell"'  Cod-Toledo-Kankakee club in  ""2.WHAT WAS KNUTE  al TRIVIA antostal TRIVIA ant  
apt. at CASTLE POINT!  call mark@ 271-1578  Bookstore Basketball?  ROCKNE'S MAJOR?  
need a ride to N.Y.C/Iong island  Find out in: Look Out For The  •••3.NAME THE 3 DORMS NAMED  play play play play play play  
area this weekend. will help gas,  Enjoy air-conditioning, a pool, and  Two train tix, can be separate,  Manhole Cover, available now in the  AFTER NO PRESIDENTS?  ~  
tolls, etc. call mike x1594  REDUCED RENTII  to Penn Station NY open date  bookstore!  '""4.WHERE IS THE ONLY STILL  
one way. $80 each, firm. Call  EXISTING HITCHING POST FOR  


Thursday, April 22, 1993 
The Observer page 13 
. ;;.. . ............................................ ······ ...... ·tt

,.. ' . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . •
. ~ ,._.,. -~ . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . ~ ~ ­
. ""' . . . .. .. . .. .. .. .. . ._... ,.~­
0 1\) "".. ..... · · · .................. · · ............. · · ~ A """·' a1 e::> 
~ '~ ... 'y 0 • : : • : :: • •• : : : : : : : : • •• : : w -,:~.il) ..,,l ~ . ­
..... ..... ..... . . ....... ...... ..... . . . ....... . 


. I 
MLB STANDINGS · 
NBA STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL East Division Atlantic Division 
AMERICAN LEAGUE EASTERN CONFERENCE 
American League SEATTLE MARINERS-Activated Mackey
w L Pet GB L1 0 Streak Home Away W L Pet GB L1 0 Streak Home Away Conf 
y-NewYork 58 22 Sasser, catcher, from the 15-day disabled
Boston 11 3 .766 z-6-2 Won 4 6-1 5-2 .725 8-2 Won3 36-4 22-16 40-14 
Detroit 9 5 .643 2 z-6-2 Won 2 7-1 2-4 x-Boston 46 34 .575 12 4-6 Won 1 27-13 19-21 32-23 list. Optioned Lee Tinsley, outfielder, to Toronto x-New Jersey 43 37 .536 2-6 Lost 1 17-23 Calgary of the Pacific Coast League. 
7 6 .536 3 1/2 z-5-5 Lost 1 4-2 3-4 15 26-14 27-27 BASKETBALL
Orlando 39 6-4 13-27
New York 6 7 .462 4 1/2 z-5-5 Lost 3 3-3 3-4 41 .488 19 Lost 1 26-14 25-29 United States Basketball League
Milwaukee 4 6 .400 5 4-6 Lost 1 Miami 35 45 .436 23 4-6 Lost 5 25-15 10-30 21-33
2-2 2-4 
Philadelphia Won 1 DAYTONA BEACH HOOTERS-Named
Cleveland 5 9 .357 6 3-7 Lost 2 4-3 1-6 26 54 .325 32 5-5 15-25 11-29 18-36 
6 4 Washington Lost 15-25 14-40 Tammy Harris director of promotions. 
Baltimore 4 .333 6 4-6 Lost 1 2-2-4 22 58 .275 36 2-8 3 7-33 FOOTBALL
West Division Central Division National Football League
y-Chicago 56 23 .709
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away 6-2 Won 1 30-10 26-13 36-15 ATLANTA FALCONS-Agreed to termsCalifornia 7 4 .636 6-4 Won 1 4-2 3-2 x-Cieveland 52 27 .658 4 9-1 Won9 34-6 18-21 35-16 with Bobby Hebert, quarterback, on a three­Texas 6 5 .615 5-5 Lost 2 4-2 4-3 x-Atlanta 42 36 .525 14 1/2 4-6 Won 2 24-16 16-22 25-29 year contract. 
Minnesota 7 5 .563 1/2 6-4 Won 1 4-3 3-2 x-Charlotte 42 36 .525 14 1/2 7-3 Won 3 21-19 21-19 27-27 DALLAS COWBOYS-Signed Chris Hall,Chicago 6 7 .462 2 4-6 Won 1 2-3 4-4 Indiana 40 39 .506 16 6-4 Lost 1 26-13 14-26 26-27 safety.
Oakland 5 6 .455 2 z-4-6 Won 1 5-2 0-Detroit 38 41 .481 16 6-4 Lost 3 26-13 12-26 29-24
4 
MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Signed JayiceSeattle 5 6 .385 3 3-7 Lost 1 3-3 2-5 Milwaukee 28 52 .350 26 1/2 2-6 Lost 6 18-22 10-30 20-34 

WESTERN CONFERENCE Pearson, cornerback; Bruce Holmes,Kansas City 4 9 .306 4 4-6 Won 2 2-5 2-4 Midwest Division linebacker; Derek Tennell, tight end; Joe Randolph, wide receiver and Frank
NATIONAL LEAGUE W L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni Conover, nose tackle.
East Division y-Houston 54 25 .664 10-0Won 10 30-9 24-16 35-15 
NEW YORK JETS-Announced the

W L Pet GB L1 0 Streak Home Away x-San Antonio 47 32 .595 7 4-6 Lost 3 29-10 18-22 30-21 retirement of Freeman McNeil, runningPhiladelphia 10 3 .769 7-3 Won 6-1 2 x-Utah 45 34 .570 9 5-5 Lost 1 26-13 19-21 27-24
2 4­back.
Denver
St. Louis 6 5 .615 2 z-6-4 Won 1 5-2 3-3 34 45 .430 20 5-5 Won 1 26-13 8-32 22-28 
Minnesota 16 61 .228 PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Signed Erik
Montreal 7 6 .536 3 5-5 Won 2 4-3 3-3 36 0-10 Lost 10 10-30 6-31 13-37 McMillan, defensive back, to three one-yearPittsburgh 7 6 .536 3 4-6 Lost 4 3-3 4-3 Dallas 9 70 .114 45 2-8 Lost 2 6-34 3-36 3-49 contracts.
Pacific DivisionChicago 7 7 .500 3 1/2 5-5 Lost 1 4-4 3-3 PITTSBURGH STEELERS-Signed LouisNew York 6 6 .500 3 1/2 4-6 Lost 2 2-4 4-2 z-Phoenix 60 19 .759 6-4 Lost 3 34-6 26-13 36-13 Lipps, wide receiver. 
Florida 4 9 .306 6 3-7 Lost 2 x-Seattle 53 26 .671 7 6-4 Wont 32-8 21-16 36-15
2-5 2-4 
TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Agreed to
West Division x-Portland 50 29 .633 10 6-2 Won3 30-10 20-19 35-16 terms with Barney Bussey, safety, on a 1\vo­W L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away x-LA Clippers 40 40 .500 20 1/2 6-4 Won1 26-13 14-27 26-26 year contract. 
San Francisco 9 5 .643 z-6-2 Won 2 5-2 4-x-LA Lakers 38 41 ..481 22 4-6 Won 2 19-21 19-20 25-26 HOCKEYHouston 6 6 .571 1 z-7-3 Won 1 2-4 6-3 2 Golden State 32 47 .405 26 4-6 Lost 5 17-22 15-25 23-27 National Hockey LeagueAtlanta 6 7 .533 1 1/2 4-6 Won 1 4-3 4-4 Sacramento 25 54 .316 35 4-6 Won 3 16-24 9-30 16-33 DALLAS STARS-Named Larry Kelly
x-clinched playoff berth director of public relations. 
Los Angeles 6 6 .429 3 4-6 Lost 1 3-3 3-5 LA Lakers at Utah, (n)
y-<:linched division title 
z-clinched overall best record 
San Diego 5 8 .385 3 1/2 4-6 Lost 1 3-4 2-4 Sacramento at Golden State, (n) SOCCER
Colorado 4 6 .333 4 z-4-6 Lost 2 3-3 1-5 Thursday's Games · · 
Tuesday's Games American Professional Soccer League
Cincinnati 4 9 .306 4 1/2 3-7 Won 2 2-4 2-5 Phoenix at Portland, 8 p.m. 
VANCOUVER 86ERS-Signed Paul Dolan
z-denotes first game was a win Orlando 105, Washington 86 Detro~ at Chicago, 8:30 p.m.
New York 109, Miami97 and Rob Merkl, goalkeepers; Rick Celebrini,
Minnesota at Houston, 6:30p.m. 

Atlanta 111, Indiana 102 Steve MacDonald and Doug McKinty,AMERICAN LEAGUE Denver at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m.
Wednesday's Games Wednesday's Games Cleveland 105, Detroit 81 defenders; John Catliff, Jim Easton, lvor
Seattle at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m.

Late Games Not Included Late Games Not Included LA Lakers 107, Minnesota 95 Evans, Scott Macey and Doug Muirhead,
Friday's Games
Detroit 5, Texas 4 Houston 2, Chicago 0 Chicago 123, Philadelphia 94 and Guido Titotto and Nick Gilbert, forwards. 
Cleveland at Boston, 7:30 p.m.

Chicago at Baltimore (n) Atlanta at Florida (n) LA Clippers 107, Dallas 96 Continental Indoor Soccer League
Orlando at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m.

Milwaukee at Minnesota (n) Los Angeles at Montreal (n) Sacramento 101, Utah 92 CISL-Named Kelly Mock director of
New York at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. 

Toronto at Kansas City (n) San Diego at Philadelphia (n) officials.
Portland 115, Golden State 99 Washington at Miami, 7:30p.m. 
Boston at Seat11e (n) Cincinnati at Pittsburgh (n) /ednesday's Games COLLEGE
Milwaukee at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. 

New York at Oakland (n) San Francisco at N~w York (n) ate Games Not Included AKRON-Announced the resignation of
Chicago at Charlotte, 8 p.m.

Cleveland at California (n) Colorado at St. LoUis (n) Boston 126, Orlando 98 Lisa Fitch, women's basketball coach. 
Indiana at Detroit, 8 p.m.

Thursday's Games Thursday's Games . New York 105, New Jersey 74 CATAWBA-Announced the resignation of Milwaukee (Wegman 1-2) at Minnesota Atla~ta (Avery 1-1) at Flonda (Armstrong Philadelphia 107, Miami 97 Minnesota at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. Dennis Haglan, athletic director, effective 
Golden State at Utah, 9 p.m.

(Deshaies 3-0), 1:15 p.m. 1-2), 1.35 p.m. May31.
Atlanta 119, Washington 98 LA Lakers at Seattle, 10 p.m.
New York (Militello 0-1) at Oakland Colo_rado (Henry 0-2) at St. Louis (Cormier ST. BONAVENTURE-Named Marti
Charlotte 119, Milwaukee 111 Portland at Sacramento, 1 0:30 p.m.
(Darling 0-0), 3:15p.m. 1-1), 1.35 p.m. . Cleveland at Indiana, (n) Whitmore women's basektball coach. Toronto (Hentgen 1-1) at Kansas City Los Angeles (Hersh1ser 2-1) at Montreal Dallas at Denver, (n) SIENA-Named John D'Argenio athletic lf'.nn"' n-~1 R·~'l n m (Bottenfield 1-1), 7:35p.m. director. 
01 224L 01 I I Z40 06 BIOS 401 01 Zl45 EE ZZ4L oz 1817 HESB 450 oz 0414 MGT 350 01 Z457 
RLST Z35 33 9533BIOS 405 01 0587 EE 344T 01 1837 HIST 209 01 4673 Ml 318 01 3475 RLST Z35 35 9535BIOS 463 01 058Z EE 498B 01 4914 HIST 209T 01 4674 MI 333 01 4601 RLST 24Z 41 9541
CAPP 315 01 1603 ENOL ZOI 01 5097 HIST Z09T oz 4675 Ml 43ZC 01 4753 RLST Z51 45 9545CAPP 361 01 1604 ENOL 301A 01 1994 HIST Z09T 03 4676 MI 530 01 4604 RLST 251 47 9547CAPP 416 01 0497 ENOL 301B 01 0604 HIST ZZ5 01 1374 MLJA 221 01 Z469 RLST 339 51 9551CHEG Z55 01 1635 ENOL 301B oz 4607 HIST 308A 01 3646 MSCI Zll 02 2482 RLST 362 55 9555CHEG Z55T oz 0682 ENOL 310 oz 064Z HIST 326A 01 3463 MUS zzoo 01 252Z ROFR 235 01 2981CHEG 459 oz 164Z ENOL 311 oz 0641 HIST 330A 01 5028 MUS 2200 02 0777 ROFR 310 01 2982CHEM 119L 01 3581 ENOL 3JZ OJ J998 HIST 358A 01 4098 MUS zzoo 03 Z5ZI ROFR 310 02 IZ54CHEM 119L 02 3583 ENOL 314E 01 3776 HIST 361 01 444Z MUS 221 01 3062 ROFR 371 01 3472CHEM JI9L 03 3585 ENOL 3160 01 4608 HIST 370 01 3649 MUS 2Z3 01 0775 ROFR 485 01 4729AMST 368H 01 4703 CHEM 119L 04 3587 ENOL 319A 01 zooo HIST 371A 01 5032 MUS ZZ6 01 Z5Z4 ROIT 103 01 Z986
AMST 386H 01 4704 CHEM 223L 01 1670 ENOL 319A oz Z001 HIST 393 01 3312 PHIL ZOJ 01 Z604 ROIT 103 oz Z987AMST 387H 01 470S CHEM 223L 02 1672 ENOL 322 01 zooz HIST 394 01 2175 PHIL Z01 02 Z605 ROIT 105 oz 3Z57AMST 388H 01 4706 CHEM 223L 03 1674 ENOL 327 01 4609 HIST 395 01 0534 PHIL 201 03 2606 ROSP 102A 01 2995AMST 401E 01 4S90 CHEM 223L 05 1676 ENOL 327A 01 4989 HIST 430 01 4443 PHIL ZOI 04 2607 ROSP 102A 04 Z998AMST 40ZE 01 4591 CHEM 247L 01 4973 ENOL 328 01 3159 HIST 458 01 4116 PHIL Z01 05 2608 ROSP 102A 05 Z999AMST 403E 01 4S92 CHEM 333 01 1683 ENOL 333 01 4610 HIST 458A 01 4115 PHIL 201 06 Z609 ROSP 103 05 3005
AMST 404E 01 4S93 CHEM 333L 01 0183 ENOL 340 01 3431 HIST 473 01 4686 PHIL 201 
07 2610 ROSP 103 06 3006
ANTH 310 01 3492 CHEM 333L 03 J685 ENOL 392B 01 4612 HIST 474 OJ 3495 PHIL 20J 09 26J2 ROSP 103 09 3009ANTH 3Z8 . 01 3480 CLAS 44J OJ J7J2 ENOL 399A 01 3688 HIST 474A OJ 3494 PHIL 201 10 2613 ROSP 234 01 0241
ANTH 328A 01 3479 COMM 103 02 9702 ENOL 408A 01 4990 liPS 320 01 3552 PHIL 201 11 3346 ROSP 236 01 0239ANTH 329 01 3734 COMM J03 03 9703 ENOL 4J5Z 01 46J6 liPS 437 01 4970 PHIL 201 J2 1249 ROSP 237 01 0734ANTH 359 OJ 4447 COMM 103 04 9704 ENOL 426A 01 4617 liPS 584 OJ 3620 PHIL 20J 13 1236 ROSP 237 02 0966ANTH 405 01 3992 COMM 103 05 9705 ENOL 434Z 01 4620 LAW 601 OJ 2236 PHIL 201 14 0090 ROSP 310 OJ 30ZOANTH 411 01 44SO COMM 103 06 9706 ENOL 435A 01 4580 LAW 603 oz 2Z40 PHIL ZOI J5 3978 ROSP 318 OJ 3476ANTH 43J 01 445J COTH 204 01 3601 ENOL 440E 01 4621 LAW 616 01 ZZ51 PHIL 201 16 0088 ROSP 328 OJ 3021ANTH 43JA 01 498S COTH 204 02 4003 ENOL 4S3 01 3693 LAW 631A OJ 2256 PHIL 22() 01 3904 ROSP 483 OJ 4742ANTH 444 01 35S4 COTH 205 OJ 3603 ENOL 470 OJ 4626 LAW 631B 01 2257 PHIL 221 01 5126 ROSP 484 01 4733ANTH 4S4 OJ 3560 COTH 205 02 4005 ENOL 470A 01 4993 LAW 631D OJ 2259 PHIL 221 '02 51Z7 sc J41L 01 3450ANTH 454A 01 3S59 COTH 210 01 0344 ENOL 471 01 4994 LAW 676 01 2265 Z22 oz 0769 sc 02 3452
PHIL J4JL
ARCH 443 OJ 1400 COTH 373 OJ 4518 ENOL 485B 01 4629 LAW 679 01 3656 PHIL 222 03 0768 soc 205 01 OZ36ARCH S43 01 J403 COTH 377 01 3610 ENOL 49SA 01 1Z23 LLRO 460 01 5098 PHIL 224 01 0767 soc zzo OJ 3039ARCH 598 oz 040J COTH 435 01 4520 FIN Z3J OJ Z03Z MARK Z31 03 2277 PHIL ZZ5 01 366Z soc ZZOT OJ 0083ARHI 169 OJ 1409 COTH 440 01 4521 FIN Z31 oz 0571 MARK Z31 06 ZZ80 PHIL 2Z5 oz 4761 soc Z3Z 01 3321ARHI 483 OJ 4474 CSE 232 OJ 0009 FIN 360 01 2033 MARK 231 07 228J PHIL 232 01 4131 soc 232 02 3331ARST 149S 01 4485 CSE 232 02 0008 FIN 360 02 Z034 MARK 350 01 2284 PHIL 233 01 4762 soc 242 01 4157ARST 231S 01 1436 CSE 331 01 0675 FIN 360 03 2035 MARK 3SO 02 2285 PHIL 233 02 4763 soc 242 02 4159ARST 24JS OJ 3297 CSE 332L OS 4841 FIN 360 04 2036 MARK 370 02 2287 PHIL 235 OJ 2619 soc 332 01 0509ARST Z4SS 01 3566 CSE 47J OJ 3626 FIN 360 05 Z039 MARK 476 01 ZZ91 PHIL Z39 01 Zl89 soc 415 01 3938ARST 247S 01 3209 OESN 281S 01 1743 FIN 361 03 2046 MATH 102 01 0060 PHIL 242 01 5101 soc 486 01 4571211 08 1336 ARST 325S 01 1442 ECON 223T 01 4S24 FIN 361 04 2042 MATH 120 01 4955 PHIL 246 01 2620 soc 490 01 3043211 09 1337 AS 411 02 1489 ECON 223T 04 4527 FIN 376 03 2050 MATH 120T 01 4954 PHIL 253 01 3666 STV 253 OJ 3667211 10 1338 BA 230 01 1494 ECON 223T 05 4528 FIN 376 04 2051 MATH 221 01 2338 PHIL 261 01 2622 STV 310 01 3491211 13 1341 BA 230 02 0572 ECON 224T 01 4533 FIN 470 01 2060 MATH 221 02 2339 PHIL 26J 02 0279 STV 354 01 3912211 14 1342 BA 230 03 1490 ECON 224T 02 4534 FIN 475 01 0566 MATH ZZ5T oz 0663 PHIL Z63 01 4135 STV 453 01 3694211 15 1343 BA Z30 05 1492 ECON 2Z4T 03 4535 GE 101 oz Zl23 MATH ZZ5T 03 066Z PHIL Z65 01 Z6Z3 STV 454 01 3561Zll 16 I344 BA 36Z 01 1496 ECON ZZ4T 04 4S36 GE 101 03 ZlZ4 MATH ZZ5T 04 0661 PHIL 3J5 01 4765 THEO zoo 01 1182Zll 18 1346 BA 363 OI 1497 ECON ZZ4T 05 4537 GE 103 03 ZI29 MATH 225T 07 OJ79 PHYS Z21L 02 2656 THEO zoo oz 11792JI 19 1347 BA 363 oz 1843 ECON 2Z4T 06 4538 GE 365 01 4726 MATH ZZ5T 08 0178 PHYS ZZ1L 05 2657 THEO zoo 04 1169211 20 1348 BA 363 03 1499 ECON 224T 07 4539 GE 47S 01 3865 MATH 226T 02 0176 PHYS 2Z1L 06 Z658 THEO zoo 05 1165ZJI 21 1349 BA 363 04 J498 ECON 224T 08 4540 GE S75 01 3866 MATH 325 01 2353 PHYS 229L 01 2663 THEO zoo 06 1162ZJI 22 1350 BA 363 05 1500 ECON ZZ4T 09 4S41 GEOS 141L 01 3449 MATH 335 oz 1597 PHYS ZZ9L oz Z664 THEO zoo 07 J25Z2JI 23 1351 BA 363 06 5052 ECON 224T 13 4545 GEOS 14JL 02 3451 MATH 438 01 23S9 PHYS 229L 03 2665 THEO 224 OJ 0710211 25 1353 BA 391 OJ JZI2 ECON 224T 14 4546 GEOS 459 01 4854 MBA 601 01 3984 PHYS 229L 04 2666 THEO 231 OJ 1156211 27 1355 BA 391 oz 1004 ECON ZZ4T 17 4549 GOVT 3160 OJ 4599 ME 241L 01 4864 PSY 21JA 01 Z780 THEO 24Z OJ 0706Z11 28 1356 BA 391 03 IZ13 ECON 224T 18 4550 GOVT 340 01 3523 ME 241L 02 4865 PSY 250 OJ 2781 THEO 243 01 4817211 29 1357 BA 490 03 1507 ECON 224T 19 4551 GOVT 342 02 0893 ME 331L 01 4867 PSY 34J 02 3179 THEO 246 01 IJ55211 30 13S8 BA 490 04 JS06 ECON 225 01 3513 GOVT 342T 01 3289 ME 33JL 04 4870 PSY 341 03 3J78 THEO 250 01 1105211 31 1359 BIOS ZOI oz 5092 ECON 2Z5 oz 1778 GOVT 342T oz 3Z90 ME 331L 05 4871 PSY 341T OJ 49Z2 THEO 253 01 1150211 32 1360 BIOS ZOIL oz J513 ECON 417 OJ 4458 GOVT 342T 03 3Z91 ME 435 01 0688 PSY 341T 02 4923 THEO Z55 03 5103 2ll 33 1361 BIOS 20JL 05 3117 ECON 443 01 1788 GOVT 343T 01 08Z7 ME 469 01 0684 PSY 342 01 2784 THEO Z58 01 OZJ2 21J 34 1362 BIOS 241L OJ 4977 ECON 447 OJ 4559 GOVT 403 01 4076 MGT 231 01 2442 PSY 342T OJ 4925 THEO 264 01 4169211 35 1363 BIOS 241L 03 4979 ECON 484 OJ 3619 GOVT 403T OJ 4080 MGT 23J 02 2443 PSY 355 01 0267 THEO 265 01 1147 273 01 03S4 BIOS 241L 04 4980 EOUC 201F 04 8404 GOVT 445 01 4S68 MGT 231 04 2449 PSY 403 01 4788 THEO 266 OJ 3072282 01 1595 BIOS 304 OJ J519 EOUC 201F 06 8406 GOVT 459 01 4457 MGT 23J 05 2445 PSY 421 01 0755 THEO 266 02 1146301E 01 4587 BIOS 304L 01 1520 EOUC 3Z4 17 8417 GOVT 478 01 4968 MGT Z3J 06 Z448 PSY 453 01 4790 THEO Z81 01 367530ZE 01 4588 BIOS 304L oz 1S2J EOUC 340 18 8418 GOVT 486 01 3698 MGT 240 OJ Z452 PSY 454 OJ 0754 THEO Z90 01 0057 354H 01 4699 BIOS 344L 01 15Z3 EOUC 404 30 8430 GSC zzo 01 3905 MGT Z40 oz 2453 PSY 455 01 0753 THEO 395 01 3375 36SH 01 4700 BIOS 344L oz 15Z4 EE 22Z oz 5087 GSC 315 01 4638 MGT Z40 04 2454 PSY 462 01 4791 THEO 62J OJ 3679 367H 01 470Z BIOS 344L 03 0195 EE 222T 01 1810 GSC 430 01 3940 MGT Z40 05 Z456 RLST Z01 15 9515 THTR Z76 54 9754 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, April 22, 1993 
Men· beat women in volleyball teams' exhibition ma-tch 
I I 
' I 
! 
I I r I I 
I· ! 
I I I 
-
at 15-13. 

The second game was all Blue. Nicole Coates and Chris Murdy combined for 8 kills and Karlan added strong serving as the Blue team romped to a 15-3 win in a game that got uglier as it went on. 
In game 3, which was played under rally-score format, there were five lead changes, an il­lustration of how well-matched the teams were. Coates and Strottman combined for several kills, leading Blue to a 15-13 game victory and a 2-1 victory in the match. 
The next exhibition was the one-game match between men and women. The women broke their huddle with a cheer of "2­8," a derisive reference to the men's record at Nationals. 
Peters and Coates were all over the court for the women, who tied the score at 7-7. Peters had 4 kills and an ace to that point. But after a Bill Raney kill, the men took over and took the game 15-10, ending with a block by seniors Madden and Murdy. 
The match was termed an overall success. Both teams 
BY KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 
The latest "battle of the sexes" took place in the Thun­derpit last night, with the men's volleyball club taking on the women's team in an exhibition match. 
Both the co-ed match and the men's vs. women's match were evenly played, with the co-ed match going the full 3 games. The split match was a close af­fair as well, tied at the midway point of the game. 
The festivities opened with the coed match between blue and white. The white team was led by Brian Ceponis and Christy Peters, while the blue team featured men's starters Pat Madden, Tom Kovats and Matt Strottman, as well as Ni­cole Coates. 
The coed match was a re­laxed but competitive affair be­tween two well-matched teams. Although service errors left Blue with an 8-2 deficit, they fought back and made it close before White prevailed 15-13. 
The game featured lots of good-natured trash talking, 

especially by Blue. One of the lighter moments came after White's Leo Casas tipped a ball out of bounds. Blue's bench yelled, "Give it to 17," an allu­sion to Casas' ejection at Na­tionals for trash talking in a match against Iowa. On the next play, Blue's Kovats would reject a Casas tip, but he was then called for a net violation. 
Both sides traded strong plays through the game. White's Peters, a leading light of the women's team, nailed a rocket spike to the feet of Strottman, who would mutter sheepishly, "I think that was my fault." 
Meanwhile, Blue was led by Pat Madden's blocking and the strong serving of Won Suh, who gave an early look at his new jump serve, which was landing with consistency. One of Blue's better plays saw Janelle Karlan stuff a Casas spike shortly after she and Madden collided due to miscommunication. 
With the score tied at 13, freshman Shannon Tuttle dropped an ace in for White. Peters and sophomore Julie Harris then combined for a block to seal the game for White 
HERE FOR THE SUMMER"!? Nctre Dame Sports Marketing is looking for volunleers! Students: 
•will work directly with the varsity coaches and staff 
•will promote a specific varsity program 
•must be available this summer and next fall 
Sports Available: 
•women1s volleyball 
•men 1 s soccer 
•womenIs soccer 
•cross country 
•swimming *fencing 
•women 's basketball *hockey 
Ifinterested, please contact the sports marketing department at 631-8103. 
played well and had fun, and the men raised approximately $150, which will help cover the cost of the trip to Texas for Na­tionals. 
"We made more than we had expected," said Madden, who also thanked women's coach Debbie Brown for her help in 
The Observer/ Kyle Kusek The men's volleyball team defeated the women's team in an exhibition match yesterday in the JACC Pit 
organizing the match. 

The teams raffled ofT t-shirts, a ball and a sport bag between the matches. The t-shirts were won in a serving contest, in which 4 members of the audi­ence had to serve and hit one of six shirts on the other side of the net, all with success. 


Softball 
continued from page 20 
on defense." 

"During the game, we didn't even realize it," added coach Miller. "We never thought it would happen." 
Kobata didn't dominate early in the game, but managed to keep the gem alive. "I wanted a no-hitter," she said. "By the fifth inning, I felt better and the ball started breaking for me." 
On offense, the Irish didn't score until the fifth inning. With two outs in the inning, Knudson singled and then sophomore Sara Hayes followed with a two run home run to provide the difference. 
Thus far this season, Kobata has been able to dominate many of Notre Dame oppo­nents. She'll get a chance to continue her mastery today against Loyola. 
''I'm getting lucky enough that teams are swinging at my riser," concluded Kobata. 

The following members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's community will be Confirmed in the Catholic Church: 
Brian Clark Scott Ecker Tom Fellrath Patrick Fischer Alison Fogarty Chip Highsmith Brad Mahlum Doug Minnich Jane Pfannerstill Dan Stauffer Steven Stem Miki Strabley Tom Toole Adam Walsh 
Rite of Confirmation and Mass Sunday. Apri125, 1993 1:30p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Bishop Joseph R. Crowley, presider 
Do you have the summer time s!Jhool blues?? Ccme live at Remington Court during· summer school, and relax i.n luxury between classes. We have junior one bedrooms that will give the privacy ofyour own home. Come lay by our pool and study, or just to relax. We have models open daily-come out and take a look! 
Located ou M.ain Street between McKinley and Edison 

Thursday, April 22, 1993 The Observer page 15 

Former Irish QB Steve Beuerlein signed by Phoenix 
TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) -The Phoenix Cardinals, unable to land Joe Montana, got another ex-Notre Dame quarterback Wednesday when they signed Steve Beuerlein to a three-year. $7.5 million contract. 
Beuerlein, a fourth-round draft choice of the Los Angeles Raiders in 1987, has been a backup to Troy Aikman at Dal­las for "two years. But the Car­dinals said their latest free­agent acquisition may be their starter. 
"When Troy was injured, (Beuerlein) was the guy that took the team to the playoffs and won a playoff game," col­lege scouting director Bob Ack­les said. 
Ackles, who left Dallas to join the Cardinals nine months ago, helped assess Beuerlein for the Cowboys. 

"I've never really considered Steve a backup quarterback because when I watched him with the Raiders, I thought he was their best quarterback at that time," Ackles said. "And then when he came to Dallas, I thought, 'We're very fortunate to have two guys who can start in the league.' " 
Phoenix coach Joe Bugel, who is 13-35 in three seasons and under the gun to produce a winner this year, bristled at the suggestion Beuerlein was a "consolation prize" grabbed after Montana chose Kansas City over the Cardinals. 
"We actively pursued him even when we were talking to Joe Montana," Bugel said. 
Beuerlein never approached the NFL heights of Montana, but he left Notre Dame as its career leader in passes (850), completions (473) and passing yardage (6,527). 
Offensive coordinator Jerry Rhome said he would introduce Beuerlein to the Phoenix play­book Thursday, and Beuerlein said he hoped to master it be­fore the May 11 start of mini­camp. 
Rhome said the mini-camp was a deadline for the return of Timm Rosenbach, who took every snap in 1990 and missed all of the 1991 season because of a knee injury, then lost his starting job to Chris Chandler last year. Rosenbach, who owns a ranch in nearby Gilbert, has not contacted Bugel, Rhome or general manager Larry Wilson since the season ended. 
Bugel omitted Rosenbach when he referred to Beuerlein, Chandler and second-year Tony Sacca as the team's quarterbacking corps. 
"It's hard to talk about Timm when he's not here," Rhome explained. 
The Cardinals allowed 36 sacks last season, and Rosenbach was injured in each of the first two games. The second time, Rosenbach missed four games, opening the door for Chandler. 
"I have no qualms stepping into the situation," he said. "A lot of times, a player might hold the ball too long back there. Maybe a young player might have missed an assignment. I think from the talent stand­point, this offensive line has got people that can line up every Sunday and control the line of scrimmage." 
Beuerlein, who made $600,000 last season before playoff bonuses, said money was secondary to his belief that the Cardinals, a perennial NFC East doormat, are committed to becoming a contender. 

·~.
Troubled times for both of Washington's college football programs 
PULLMAN, Wash. (AP) -A pipe bomb and a bomb-making book were found at the home of a Washington State football player who lost his hand in an explosion that killed a team­mate, Pullman police said Wednesday. 
Investigators also were look­ing for a possible link between the blast and a pipe bomb found in an Idaho football player's car in February. 
Cougars linebackers Harvey "Buddy" Waldron and Payam Saadat were driving down a residential street Monday night when a pipe bomb exploded in the vehicle. 
Investigators have not de­termined where the men were going or why the bomb was in the vehicle driven by Waldron. 
Waldron, 22, of Bellevue, died late Tuesday night at Sacred Heart Medical Center in Spokane, nursing supervisor Margie Cooke said. 
Saadat, 20, of Santa Monica, Calif.. was in satisfactory con­dition at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle, a nursing su­

• BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • 
~FC»IAt c (IJ 
<l: 0 
(/) (j)
G 
NOTREDAME ~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION ~ 
(fl 
)> 
• IUIEJUIBE RS r-~ 
(/) (IJ 
w c 
~ 1 Are Invited To ASale From ~ Buret Car Sales ~a!d N~tre Dame ~ g Federal Credit Union i 
FIIDAY \ SATURDAY rn
wtDMESDAY \ THURSDAY APRil MAY ~ 
APRIL APRil 1ST § 

~ en  IMO/O~~~IWLECIN~ I T~&Ro::,~R ~ IVV/G MIM • TRADE-IN m  
Q::3  ------. EXTENDED  FINANa RATES AS LOW AS  -i ~  
~  ,~'!!.,  8.0 ~·~  
•  OTHER RATES AND TERMS TO 60 MONTHS ALSO AVAILABLE  '  •  
en  • WITH APPROVED CREDIT ON SELECTED MODELS  ~  
':J  0  

~~!~~~~t­
~ 124 E.IRELAND~ 
~ (US 31 & IRELAND. THE OLD BRITE WAY) ~ 
~ SOIRH BEND ·(21 9) 299·1444 ~ 
~ (Telephone No. c::ornected a....rg soja, orly) r:;; ~ Budget sells rental fleet cars. pre-owned cars and quality trade-InS. (fl 
m • 
• BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR Si\LES 
pervisor said. 
A federal agent hoped Wednesday to question Saadat, said Michael Sprenger, a special agent for the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms in Spokane. 
In a search of the men's homes, "we did find significant bomb-making materials, in­cluding (another) pipe bomb, at Saadat's residence," Pullman police chief Ted Weatherly said. 
Investigators found a book on how to make bombs. smokeless powder, a soldering iron and receipts for the purchase of materials, authorities said. 
"We found some minor in­teresting stuff at Waldron's apartment also," Weatherly said. 
Investigators believe the men put one of the pipe bombs in the 1978 Dodge Ram Charger and accidentally detonated it, Weatherly said . 
The bomb in the car appeared to be an 8-inch length of l-inch­diameter galvanized pipe packed with smokeless powder, said Mike Kelly, supervisor of the ATF office in Spokane. The trigger is believed to have been a flashlight bulb wired to a clock and 9-volt batteries, he said. 
The force of the blast shat­tered the windshield and blew out a window while shrapnel punched a hole in the rig's roof, Weatherly said. The vehicle hit a parked car after the device exploded. 
Criminal charges may be pending, he said. 
Police and federal agents also are looking at possible links to a February incident in which a metal pipe bomb was thrown into an Idaho football player's car. The player, who was not in the vehicle at the time, told au­thorities he did not know who might have been responsible or why he might have been tar­geted. 

T 
server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Please submit resume and a 1-2 page personal statement to Meredith MCCullough by 5 p.m., Friday, April 23. Contact Meredith at 239-5303 for more information. 
SEATTLE (AP) -The Wash­ington Huskies may enter the football season without know­ing if they are eligible for the Rose Bowl or any other post­season play, school officials have been told. 
An investigation of the pro­gram, including an interest-free loan to former quarterback Billy Joe Hobert and reports o easy-money summer jobs for other players. is now set for completion in late August, Pa­cific-1 0 Conference commis­sioner Tom Hansen wrote uni­versity president William Ger­berding this week. 
The investigation began in November, when the Hobert loan was first reported, and the initial target date for comple­tion was the league's annual meeting in June. 
"The investigators cannot conclude their work in time for action in June, even though the scope of the investigation re­mains as originally identified," Hansen's letter, dated April 15, said. "All parties agree it is de­sirable to conclude this process prior to the beginning of the 1993 football season." 
The Huskies, who finished 11th in the final AP poll after being ranked No. 1 briefly last season, begin play Sept. 4 against Stanford. 
"I think it's regrettable that it puts us up to the start of the football season, but there's work to be done," said univer­sity vice president James Col­lier, who oversees the athletic 



in the Lafortune Student Center 
Three t!oys only! 
lhurs., ~ril 22 IIall · 7pmfri., April 23 II am 7pm
I 

lat., April 24 1Oam lpm
I 


onsored by the Student Activities Office 


The Sweet Sixteen 
.t....Maliclous...Pr.o.secution 
4 p.m. Thursday Stepan 1 

.1.6.....Smootb.Momantum......... 
a.....Figbtlng..Kernals............... 4 p.m. Friday Bookstore 9 
5 p.m. Thursday Stepan 1 


.9.....8itte.r..........................................................., 
...................!
5 p.m. Saturday Stepan 5

.5.....T.he...Hawk.WiiJ..N.e.ver..D1f 
.1.~~-At:d~d:.~~s~................................., .....·...................................... 

l 1 
_13....Hot.. Grits..A..Flyin.~..........~..~:~m. Friday Bookstore 9 l 
! 5 p.m. Thursday Stepan 2 ........................................., 
.4....Head.Bangers.............................. 4 p.m. i 
.3.... H~A~R~~K~.o~R~E ........................~ Sunday i 5 p.m. Thursday Stepan 5 .......................................~ Stepan 5 
.1.4.....The..more.. we.. win.............. 
, 4 p.m. Friday Bookstore 10 .....................................
6.....Corbr..s.. U .............................................~ 
4 p.m. Thursday St~an 5 ....................................... 
.1.1.... Coming..From..B.ebind.... 
7.... Ebo.nv ..Side.of..the..D.om) 6 p.m. Saturday Stepan 5 4 p.m. Thursday Stepan 6 .......................................~ 
t.O....Pale..Ride.rs................................... 
5 p.m. Friday Bookstore 10 ......................................
.
15... N.D.. Most.. Wante.d..................~ 
5 p.m. Thursday Stepan 6 ..................................... 
2 Tequila White Lighting. 

Malicious, Tequila highlight talented field 
A team-by team analysis of the sweet sixteen: 
MALICIOUS PROSECUTION Round or 32: Defeated Second 16 team McCormick's 21-8. 
Last Year: With two of its current players in London, Malicious was eliminated in the Final 8 by Bridget's. 
Outlook: Malicious is a very experienced and talented squad of law school students. They have outstanding size and they use it well by taking control of the inside game. They play solid team defense and have a versatile offensive attack. 
"If we play hard, we'll win this thing no problem," said captain Ken Boehner. 
"They're probably the strongest all around team in the tournament," said Bookstore Commissioner Pat Coleman. "They play the 'bookstore' game better than anyone else." 
TEQUILA WHITE LIGHTNING XI Round of 32: Defeated Second 16 team Dogs 21-7. Last Year: Lost 21-12 in the finals to Gauchos. 
Outlook: Tequila likes to run the fast break and take advantage of its outstanding passing game. It relies on its defense to win important games. 
"We've got the size and the experience, " said team member Mike MacKinnon, "but there are a lot of good teams this year, more than I've ever seen." 
"They've played more total games in these final rounds over the last four years than any other team in the tourna­ment," said Bookstore Commissioner Bob Sullivan. "It's an intangible asset." 
H-A-R-D-K-0-R-E Round of 32: Defeated The Five Hoopsters of the Apocalypse 21-17. 
Last Year: First year team whose players have Final Four and Round of 32 experience. 
Outlook: The team is led by football players Ray Griggs, Oscar McBride, and Karl McGill. Earl Johnson and Brian McCarthy, the two other members of the team, are both very solid in their positions. The team tries to take advantage of its size by feeding McBride and McGill inside, but if that is not possible it can count on strong penetration from the other three. It has put on several slam dunk and alley-oop shows in the tournament. 
Griggs, who is captain, said that they need to "make sure (they) get good shots" without "too much show-boating." 
"If U-A-H-D-K-0-R-E comes to play," said Head Commissioner Andy Sinn, "they're going to rock somebody's world. They're a good reason why basketball 
nets should be raised By Outlook: Ebony will fast another foot." break whenever it is given
BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer the chance. All very 
HEAD HANGERS 
Round of 32: Defeated Second 16 team Talkin' Trash 21-10. Last Year: This is a first year team. Outlook: Led by football players Bobby 
Taylor, Brian Hamilton, and Lake Dawson, the squad has gained a great amount of respect for a first year team. They rely on their defense to spark their offense as they try to run the fast break. They have the ability to either play physical down low or stay outside and shoot jumpers. 
"You just play good, hard defense and hustle," said Taylor, "and you'll be successful." 
"This team coul crush some Division II and III schools," said Sinn. "Their de­fense is tenacious, but they will have to play together ofl'ensively if they hope to live up to all the hype." 
THE HAWK WILL NEVER DIE 
Round of 32: Defeated Shirts 21-7. 
Last Year: Although they are a first year team, three players reached the Hound of 32 last year and one player reached the Final Four. 
Outlook: In terms of team play, Hawk plays among the best basketball in the tournament. They have two excellent guards controlling their fast paced, quick passing offense. Three year varsity basketball walk-on Matt Adamson is one the biggest threats in evenly distributed offensive attack. 
"They are fun to watch because they play so clean," said Executive Commissioner Marianne Haggerty. "They play well together as a team." 
CORBY'S II 
Round of 32: Beat Hot Fudge 21-15 
Last Year: They are a first year team with three players who have Final Eight experience. · 
Outlook: Corby's II likes to work it down low whenever possible because they have two skilled big men. It has been able to rely on the forceful play of football player Mark Zataveski throughout the tourney. 
"We've got to start playing with intensity," said captain Todd Reynder's. 
"They have the outside shooting of (Chris) Garlitz," said Commissioner John O'Rourke. "He's one of the best players in the tournament." 
EBONY SIDE OF THE DOME Round or 32: Defeated Second 16 team Justifiable Homicide 21-15. 
Last Year: Made it to the Final Four before being beaten by the eventual champions, Gauchos. 
athletic, they can score in many different in their motion offense. "It's a race to 21 and we're going to run," said captain Martin Somerville. 
"They have the potential to be a solid contender because all five guys crash the offensive boards and they are really good in transition," said Commissioner Pete Coleman. 
FIGHTING KERNALS Round of 32: Defeated Pink Sky In Morning 21-12. Last Year: Knocked out in the Sweet Sixteen by Gauchos. 
Outlook: The squad plays tough defense and likes to play the transition game when it can. It is a big team which runs a very good half court offense. 
"We just have to go out and play our game and not get frustrated," said captain Tim Quenan. 
BITTER Round of 32: Defeated Second 16 team L-Train 21-13. 
Last year: With guard Mike O'Neil in London, the squad fell in the Sweet Sixteen to Demetrius DuBose's team Frank Drebbin and the 'Cocks. 
Outlook: An extremely strong ninth seed, Bitter is one of the most well­rounded teams in the tournament. It runs an effective half court offense also having a strong transition game. It can shoot, drive, and work the ball in low 
"We're pretty well-rounded," said captain Kris Winningham. "We have five guys who can score." 
"With the return of Mike O'Neil and the large crowds that they draw," said Sullivan, "Bitter will be a tough first round team to beat." 
PALE RIDERS Round of 32: Defeated My Life As A Cheeto 21-15. Last Year: Lost to Malicious Prosecution in the Sweet Sixteen. 
Outlook: Pale Riders is a big team that likes to run. They have very talented guards and a forceful center in football player Lindsay Knapp. 
"We've gotten this far with defensive intensity and speed," said captain Sean Bard. "We're going to keep our style of play and play hard." 
COMING FROM BEHIND Round of 32: Defeated Top 16 team 
Hhythm and Darts 21-18. Last Year: This is a first year team. Outlook: Led by the outstanding 
rebounding and inside play of football players Henaldo Wynn and Thomas Knight, Coming From Behind has sur­prised many teams this year with its strong play and resilient attitude. Although the squad's main focus is the low post work of Wynn and Knight, its three guards have quietly accumulated nearly half of the team's points. 
"The next game is ours," said Wynn. "I have no doubt about it. 
AFRODEEZIACS 
Round or 32: Defeated Woody and Three Other StilTs 21-12. Last Year: Lost in the Round of 64. Outlook: Afrodeeziacs is a perimeter 
team which scores most of its point on jump shots with occasional drives to the hoop. Although they are not very big, they work it inside whenever they can. 
"We're just happy to be in the Sweet Sixteen because many people didn't think we deserved the seed we got." 
HOT GRITS A FLYIN' Round of 32: Defeated Top 16 team Blackjack 21-19. 
Outlook: Although it is not a very big team, Hot Grits has deceived its opponents with strong rebounding and solid inside play. It is a great ball handling team with superb shooting. 
"We play good defense, rebound well, and like to run," said captain Joe Poe. 
THE MORE WE WIN, THE HARDER IT GETS Round of 32: Defeated Second 16 team 
The Good, the Bad, & the Laundry 21-15 Last Year: Fell in the Hound of 64. Outlook: This team likes to run as 
much as possible. Although it has decent shooters, it is not very big and does not have a stellar half court offense. 
ND'S MOST WANTED Round of 32: Defeated Top 16 team Corby's I 21-17. Last Year: Lost in Hound of 32 to Tequila. 
Outlook: This is a small team which likes to run the break. It counts on its 2­3 zone to catalyze its offensive play. 
"We look small," said captain Pete Knight, "but we play big." 
SMOOTH MOMENTUM Round of 32: Defeated Second 16 team Drive By Shooting 21-8. Last Year: Knocked out by L-Train in Hound of64. 

Outlook: A great defensive team with outstanding shooting. Its players take jump shots whenever open in order to make up for their Jack of an inside game. 
CONNOLLY'S UPSETS: Bitter over Kernals and Coming from Behind over Corby's II. 



The Observer 

scorers with twelve points. 
The Bookstore Basketball Commissioners seeded yester­day's winners last night and released the Sweet Sixteen schedule for today's games. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
page 17 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
back on track. 
"It's usually the strongest part of my game. It's something I haven't been able to work on all year," said Failla. 
Purdue starter Tom Morey (5­
3) took the loss with six runs and six strikeouts in four in­nings. 
Murphy expects Purdue to do well the rest of the season. 
"I guarantee they'll finish in the top-4 (in the Big Ten). We're definitely going to see that team in the NCAA Regionals," said Murphy. 
Rowan Richards and Greg Layson missed last night's game with tonsillitis and a pulled hamstring respectively. Pitcher Marty DeGraff who injured his elbow against Duquesne won't be able to throw for at least two weeks or possible the season. 
The Louisville Slugger Na­tional Championship trophy made it's first ever appearance at last night's game. The rep­resentative of of the advertising agency handling the trophy's tour cited Notre Dame's support of college baseball and it's records in the last two years. in South Bend. 


The Spirit of the Risen Lord 
Often, when called upon to give a talk or preach a sermon at a retreat, I try to give a concrete example of the love of God, or the presence of Christ, or the action of the Spirit in the world. I usually start by talking about my freshman year roommate at Notre Dame. I remember my first nervous day of college when a short guy with a strange Southern accent • put out his hand to me and said, "Hello. My name is Springs Steele. I'm your roommate; I'm gonna be your friend." 
I had no idea then how true his promise would be. 
In high school I had been a relatively normal guy, struggling for respect, worried about being cool, anxious for applause, pleased with the number of times my picture was in the yearbook. 
With practiced social skills, I arrived on campus, ready again to capture affection and respect. Suddenly, I was offered friendship freely, at no cost whatsoever. I was embraced and affirmed for no reason, given a better friend than I had ever imagined, before I had ever done nothing to deserve it. 
For a guy used to working hard for approval, this new gift came as a shock. It was a gentle, healing moment of acceptance, made true by the following years of loyalty and care. Long talks in the dorm, great parties off campus, best man at the wedding, vacations at the beach -through the years the friendship deepened and was never in doubt. 
Except for my parents, this man is the best example I have of how God works in the world to teach us love, to make us free, to give us hope. God takes flesh, fills with Spirit, is Christ for us, in the moments of real relationship and care. In the experience of faithful love, God works to re-create us more and more in the image of Jesus. 
A woman friend of mine recently asked me what I understood by the fact that in some of the post-resurrection accounts ofJesus, he is not immediately recognized by the people before whom He appears. Mary in the Garden, the disciples on the road to Emmaus, the apostles at the shore in Galilee all fail to recognize Jesus when they encounter Him in His resurrected body. 
I told my friend I wasn't really sure what the scholars would say. For me, I believe that after His death and resurrection, Jesus is now able to live in all God's people, His Spirit can take over all our lives, His touch is available in every human embrace. Once, he taught and healed in fragile flesh, nurtured in Nazareth and crushed upon the cross. Now after the Resurrection, his undefeated Spirit is fully free, to become incarnate in every heart that is open and every love that is given without reserve. 
Each of us can and will be Christ for others if we accept God's Spirit and live in the pattern ofJesus, receiving and giving love freely, without fear. 
The Easter season coincides with the coming of Spring in the northern hemisphere. The warming weather sometimes makes it easier for us to believe in resurrection and to trust in the promises of fuller life. At the same time, when people use the vocabulary of faith to baptize war in Bosnia or to invite fiery holocaust in Waco, Texas, we can question the truths written down in the Scripture about the benevolence of God's plan. 
In fact, the proofs of the resurrection are not found in the weather; nor are they denied by the hatreds of confused believers. 
The Risen Lord is alive if we let God live within us, and if we show 
Christ's Risen Face to the world. I learned that from my friend. Let's 
teach it again to one another. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF INTERESTED IN A PILGRIMAGE TO THE WORLD YOUTH DAY EVENTS TO BE HELD IN DENVER, COLORADO, FROM AUGUST 11 -15, 1993, ARE INVITED TO CONTACT CAMPUS MINISTRY AT 103 HESBURGH LIBRARY (I -7800) FOR FURTHER DETAILS. 
WEEKEND PREsiDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. April 24 5:00p.m. Rev. Alfred D'Alonzo, C.S.C. Sun.April25 10:00 a.m. Rev. Marvin O'Connell 
...
11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
SCIPTURE READINGS FoR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING  Acts 2, 14, 22.-28  
2ND READING  1 Peter 1, 17.-21  
GosPEL  Luke 24, 13..35  

page 18 The Observer Thursday, April 22,1993 
Drabek beats Cubs in 3rd complete game SPORTS BRIEFS 
Doug Drabek pitched a six­hitter for his third straight complete game as the Houston Astros defeated the Chicago Cubs 2-0 Wednesday. 
Drabek (2-2) outpitched Mike Morgan (1-3) to become the first Houston pitcher to throw three consecutive complete games since Joe Niekro did it seven straight times in 1982. 
Drabek, the 1990 NL Cy Young Award winner, struck out seven and walked one in pitching his 17th career shutout. He allowed only one Chicago runner to reach sec­ond. 
The Astros scored on Jose Uribe's single in the fourth and JeiT Bagwell's single in the fifth. Morgan allowed nine hits in seven innings. It was only his fourth loss in 18 decisions at Wrigley Field, where he has a 
1.31 ERA. Expos 6, Dodgers 4 
Jimmy Jones pitched three-hit ball for six innings to improve to 3-0 as Montreal beat Los Angeles. 
Jones gave up four runs, in­cluding Darryl Strawberry's two-r·un homer in the first in­ning. Jones, 10-6 for Houston last season, signed a minor­league contract with the Expos last Jan. 25 as a non-tendered free agent. 
Trailing 3-2, the Expos scored two runs in the bottom of the second on Greg Colbrunn's RBI double and a run-scoring grounder by Delino DeShields ofT Pedro Astacio (0-2). Darrin Fletcher added two RBls. 
Brian Barnes pitched three innings for the save, allowing no hits. 
Braves 7, Marlins 4 
David Justice and Mark Lemke each hit two-run homers in the eighth inning to lift Atlanta over Florida. 
Justice's homer on the first pitch from reliever Bob McClure (0-1) barely cleared the wall in right-center field to give the Braves a 5-4 lead. 
John Smoltz (2-2) allowed 

eight hits, four walks and four runs in seven innings for the victory. Mike Stanton pitched a scoreless ninth for his major league-leading seventh save. 
Dave Magadan went 4-for-4 for the Marlins. Mets 10, Giants 0 
Dwight Gooden and rookie Mike Draper combined on an eight-hitter as New York routed San Francisco. 
Three homers accounted for seven of the Mets' runs as Gooden (2-2), the loser in his previous two starts, scattered seven hits. 
Todd Hundley hit a three-run homer off Jeff Brantley (1-1). while Bobby Bonilla and Eddie Murray each hit two-run homers. It was Murray's third home run of the season and 417th of his career. 
Rockies 11, Cardinals 2 
Andres Galarraga had thret hits and scored twice against his former team to power Col­orado over St. Louis. 
Galarraga, who signed as a free agent with the Rockies last November after hitting .243 with St. Louis last year, also drove in a run. He's hitting .426 this season with a team-high 15 RBis. 
Rookie David Nied improved to 3-1, and now has three of the Rockies' five victories. He allowed two runs and six hits. 
Loser Joe Magrane (0-2) al­lowed four runs on seven hits in 4 1-3 innings. 
Royals 6, Blue Jays 5 
Greg Gagne streaked home from second base on Kevin McReynolds' infield single with two outs in the ninth inning and the Kansas City Royals beat Toronto for their third straight victory. 
Gagne opened the inning with a single off Mike Timlin (0-1) and stole second, and George Brett was intentionally walked with two outs. 
McReynolds hit a grounder up the middle and Luis Sojo, making his first start of the season at shortstop, stopped the 
-
THE noTRE DAmE FRffill Y 1/ InVITED... 


ball behind second. Sojo's throw to first base was high and Gagne never broke stride. Jeff Montgomery (1-0) pitched one hitless inning. 
Brewers 10, 1\vins 8 
John Jaha doubled home two runs with two outs in the lOth inning and scored on Joe Kmak's double and the Mil­waukee Brewers rallied past Minnesota. 
Milwaukee, beaten 10-0 by Minnesota on Tuesday night, trailed 7-3 in the fifth inning after Kent Hrbek's grand slam. But the Brewers bounced back. 
Carlos Maldonado (1-0) pitched three shutout innings for his first major league win. Doug Henry allowed a run in the 1Oth before getting his third save. Mike Hartley (0-1) took the loss. 
Yankees 5, Athletics 3 
Dennis Eckersley blew his third straight save chance and the New York Yankees rallied for three runs in the ninth in­ning to beat Oakland. 
Eckerlsey, who converted 51 of 54 save opportunities last year in winning the American League's MVP and Cy Young awards, relieved with the bases loaded, no outs and Oakland ahead 3-2. 
Mter striking out pinch hitter Jim Leyritz, Dion James sliced a two-run single to left field and Bernie Williams hit an RBI single. 
Eckersley had never blown even two straight save tries until this season. He was inef­fective Tuesday night, giving up three runs in the ninth inning in a game Oakland eventually won 9-7 in the 10th. 
Mariners 5, Red Sox 0 
Ken Griffey Jr. hit two home runs for the second time in three games, leading Randy Johnson and the Seattle Mariners past Boston. 
Johnson (2-1) pitched a four­hitter for his sixth career shutout. He struck out eight and walked one. 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet :rhursday at 7 p.m in the basement of Farley. Everyone Is welcome. Please call Dette at 634-4092 with questions. The N.D. Martial Arts Institute will he holding its annual belt testing at the Rockne Memorial in room 301 on Saturday April 24. The testing runs from 1 p.m.-8 p.m All are welcome to attend. The Ultimate Club will be having practice at 4:30 p.m. every school day until the end of the year behind Stepan Center. Big Ten Open is this weekend. All are welcome. The N.D. Boxing Club will be holding their banquet this Thursday 4/22 at Bruno's. All boxers interested in attending need to R.S.V.P. at Rec Sports by calling 1-5100 and talking to Brenda. Found at Bookstore Basketball game on 4/14: a freshman theology notebook. Call 1-4560 to identifY. The Irish Guard will be holding will be holding an informational meeting for those interested in trying out for next year's squad in the LaFortune TV room on Thursday 4/22 at 5 p.m. If you have any questions call Dan at 4-1527. Bookstore Basketball Notice: Starting with the round of 32, no rescheduling will be allowed; however, if the teams seeking to reschedule can arrange to swap court times with another game, it will be allowed. These teams must give notice to Andy Simms at 1­4560.  
Please, continue to conserve energy  
7 Day Delb.r.~ry lp@~)' Roses FlowersI Balloons Plantsfitttl\ -"YOUI'fUlLIIJIMCI't'\.Ofdr Gift & Fruit Baskets Clocktower Square ( 219) 2 7 7 .. 1291ot~et ~ 51400 31 North ~~'(: South Bend, IN 46637 '1 ~~~ Mel'tion This Ad and Receive I0% off '.). Not good for Valentine's Day  

CLASS 
OF '95 
Last chance to pick up an application for Senior Class Council. They will be available in the Student Government office through Friday. 


Today 
Thursday, April 22, 1993 
page 19 

SPB.IIEJI 
\NHIIT IF fl1l; 11-Rn~T
FACINAI!Nq TilE f\Rnr.:.T 

su~ T L.iK€51l1f Wll'f nt€ PRetTY cocoR5 
I'> OB'/100~'/ INCoK\-bAAilNCn 

11110 f'IIIN OF tt ll>RlUf~R> AfhLESGeN(£ INTO AN Sw lf\L.£-D il"RWM D 7 
EXPloSIIIf Nt:<>-sncnf~ 
Sl!Ri2EIIU511'1 IN A tJ 
flnEMIT TV ttlln HL Iinl-IT 
ntE Nfi.VeT2. E;NDINfn Sfi\R.uf FOQ ttJrJtR. PeftE 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

I'M NOT GOI~G TO SMELl \\.' YOV 5t'I\£.Ll IT.' 
I 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Atlas contents 52 Surface for painters
1 Money in 31 Angry color 57 Anne Nichols 
Mash had 
32 Sault-Marie 
hero5 Indian king or 33 Try to equal 58 Dip

prince 35 Lighthouse light 61 Soaks flax 
100ctober birthstone 38 Ebbs 62 Mary Ann Evans 
14 Cuxhaven's 63Tip
39 Kind of eclipseriver 64 Tavern taps 
41 Obelisk

15 Omit 65 Forecasters 42 College town in
16 Reek 66 Aware of a hoax 
Va.

11 Describing earners of 23 43 Power: Lat. 
DOWN
Across 

44 Put down at 19 Cleaving tool bridge 1 Singer McEntire 20 Pitcher Drabek 2 Misfortunes 
45 Titles for friars is one 3 Touch upon, as

46"We've­

21 Hosts property
had!"23 Certain 4 Stage villain's compensation look
48 Toot 

26 Where a Met 50 Sight at Fen way 5 Antique car may meet a Met Park 
&Wholly 7 Left at the altar 8 Jewish months 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Roll-call reply 10 Extemporane­ously 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
THEN.,,-1:'> APPARENT Y()l) ftlh'f NO IDEA WHAT Yo,J'RE DOINf, 

,. 
BILL WATIERSON 
0\-1, \=OR G000~£55' I Do~T Ti\K'C.. CI-\AI'\C~'S 'SPII(£., 1-\ER'C. W\\1-\ A PR<JI)IJC\ 11\/>-\ .. IT'S ~IN.~. PRlN\'3 HI~ DA~ '{O\.l 
M\GI-\T EXI'lR't. 

"He kids me ... he kids me not. ... He kids me ... he kids me not. ... " 


-
28 Kind of corner 44 Coined money 51 Tarzan's friends 
11 Vichyssoise, 29 Dark purple 46 Scene of noisy . 53 Resounde.g. 
confusion

30 Describing a 54 Peel.
~~~~~ 12 Hebrew law vest 47 Creme de Iainterpreter of 55 Made ecstatic cremeyore 32 Where the V.P. 
56 Sarge's dog

isaV.I.P. 480ne's umbrella? 59 Old Hebrew 
-:=:+.±+:-+=-t 13 Dross 

,;,;,a.;;+:;=-F-+=:-t 181ntimidate 34 Action for calculating 49 Kind oftrip measure 
ill-::::+:--t=-22 Take-(get 
Take the keys.

people? 50 Actress Theda 60 TO's give these 
--·~]:Jt 'ltt!lJIIl 
off the fence) 35 More open to 
Call acab.
II!! ,; 24 Soviet workers' collectives view Get answers to any three clues 
Take astand.

38 Swan genus 
-=-t:::+.::+:"+=t 25 Si m pi etons 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·

37 Honshu city 
27 Deb~ssy's "La 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

___.___.__.__..__. 40Hwys. 
Friends don't let friends drive drunk. 

page 20 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

The win streak went to 14 games as the 24th-ranked Irish baseball team (24­
8) squeaked by Purdue 7-5 last night thanks to some clutch pitching and a grand slam by the nation's top hitter. 
Both Irish pitchers, Chris Michalak and freshman A.J. Jones, pitched out of several tight spots. The most conspicu­ous by Jones with the bases loaded and no out in the ninth with the Irish leading 7-5. Jones got Dan Zanolla to pop out, Eddie Hartwell caught a Chris Kessick liner, and Jones got Shannon Stigleman to strike out for his first save of the year. 
"I got them swinging at a lot of curves out of the zone, low and away curves," said Jones. "It set up my fastball real well." 
Jones relieved Michalak in the seventh with no outs and a runner on third. lie got the highly scouted Jermaine Al­lensworth to strike out and got Mike Biltimier to ny out to Hartwell before giving up an unearned run on an HBI singiH by Alfredo Suarez. With two runners on, .Jones struck out Kessick for the final out and his fifth strikeout. 
Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy knew Jones was the one when Michalak started to struggle. 
"We had nowhere to turn but A.J .. lie's the only person with big game experience. lie's pitched well every time out," said Murphy. 
Michalak (7 -2, 4.45), the winner for the Irish, pitched out of a few jams himself. The left-hander had runners on second and third with no outs in the 
..... 
second, but retired three straight. Michalak struck out seven in six innings. 
"lie walked the lead off hitter too many times," said Murphy of Miehalak. "fie gave us what he had. lie's been 

Kobata records first perfect game 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 

Perfection is almost impossible to aehieve, espeeially on the softball diamond. llowever. Notre Dame freshman piteher Terri Kobata proved that adage wrong by pitehing the first perfect game in Irish history at Bowling Green yesterday afternoon. Notre Dame won 3-0 as Kobata improved her record to 1 0-:l with her gem. 
"Our defense was awesome behind me," explained Kobata. "I couldn't have done it without them. I didn't even l.hink about it during the game. 
"I was kind of scared going into the game, because they had such a big team," she continued. "But, I guess looks can be deceiving." 


The Falcons had a couple · ·· ,. of chances to ruin Kobata's Terri Kobata perfection, but solid outfield defense preserved the game. Freshman rightfielder Jerma Knudson threw out a runner at first base after a ground ball through the infield, and senior leftfielder Lisa Miller provided two outstanding catches to eliminate hits. 
"We played a perfect ball game," said Irish coach Liz Miller. "It was so exciting because there were so many great plays 
see SOFTBALUpage 14 

Bookstore tourney concludes round of 32 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
In the first sunny day of Bookstore Basketball XXII competition this week, three Top 16 seeds and two Second 16 ser.ds were eliminated in the Hound of 32. 
Top H> squad Hhythm & Darts fell 21-IS to the surprising first year team Coming From Behind. In a very physical battle, Coming From Behind took a small lead into half time due to the strong play or football players Henaldo Wynn and Thomas Knight. Hhythm & Darts fought baek in the second half to take a 15-12 lead. A barrage of foul calls, which mostly favored the underdogs, turned the momentum around and Coming From Behind rallind to win. 
Tempers 11ared as the match progressed. Two players got into a shoving match and bitter words between the teams abounded. One Hhythm & Darts player shoved a referee after the game. 
Knight led Coming From Behind with seven points, followed by Wynn's six. Hhythm & Darts evenly distributed their scoring, with three players earning four points and two players earning three. 
Second 16 squad Hot Grits A Flyin' knocked offTop 16 team Blackjack 21-19. 
The fast, strong shooting Grits squad played to its full potential en route to the two point victory. Dan Pier and Too Keller lead the Grits with six points apiece. 
"We played good D and surprisingly rebounded well," said captain Joe Poe. The bigger and stronger Blackjack team The Observer/ John Bingham relied on the play of stand-outs Bill Farrell The Bookstore Basketball tournament trimmed down to 16 sweet teams yesterday. see HOOPS/page 17 
OQJ@OliDrn SPORTS 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
PRO FOOTBALL 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL 


Washington programs have 
Steve Beuerlein signs with 

Men's team defeats 
Phoenix. 

big-time problems. 
women's team in exhibition. 
w
see page 15

see page 15 
see page 14 










