
Tuesday, November 30, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No.57 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRF DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND/SMC right to life addresses freedom of access bill 
By HONORA BUCKLEY 
News writer 
We have aborted and contra­cepted ourselves into oblivion, according to Notre Dame law professor Charles Rice at the ND/SMC Right to Life meeting last night. 
To support this statement, Rice cited the statistics that approximately 30 million peo­ple have been aborted. This includes assisted suicides which are "essentially post natal abortions," explained Rice. 
"We have a lot to 

be thankful for,but we also have a lot to pe J?ra¥ing for and work­mg for. 
Professor Charles Rice 

Rice also addressed the Freedom of Access to Clinics bill. The bill makes it illegal to physically impede entrance to or exit of medical facilities where abortions are per­formed. 
This bill has been proposed in two different forms, one to the House of Representatives and the other to the Senate. Neither version has been passed but both are in the pro­cess of alteration. 
The talk then turned to con­traceptives, including the con­troversial issue of the use of Norplant in public school dis­tricts. Rice believes that con­traceptives are a form of abor­tion. 
"We can spend all our time discussing surgical abortion when in fact the picture is changing," commented Rice. The picture is changing to abortion by pill or implants, according to Rice. 
Right to Life supporters "are on the winning side," com­mented Rice. "We have a lot to be thankful for, but we also have a lot to be praying for and working for." 
While addressing the ND/SMC Right to Life group, Rice com­mended this years' group for its accomplishments. Though only about 20 people were present, Rice stated, "We can move the world with this many people." 
Two of the ND/SMC Right to Life upcoming events are a trip to Washington, D.C. for the March for Life on Jan. 21 and a Day of Recollection for Catholic College Pro-Life Students with Cardinal O'Connor, Archbishop of New York, at Corpus Christi Catholic Church in South Bend on March 21. 


The Observer/Erika Quinn Charles Rice expresses his view on abortion and the new laws de­signed to protect clinics at the ND/SMC Right to Life meeting. 

Freedom of •· access bill ;;mbiguous 
By SARAHDORAN A#iwutE N(!W$ Editor 


The language . of. the Freedom of Access to Clinics bill. Q:i~ederaUaur pl'!-;ssed .· re¢ently by the House and Senate prohibiting bombings, arson, and blockades at abor­ti()l} clinics, is so ambiguous th~t it infringes upon First Amendment tights of assem­bly, according to Katrina Hilton, co•president of the N4_)tre Dame Right to Life 
club. ·· Jrr · . · ·.. ;;rhe bill)s broad enough that abortion advocates will attempt Jo prevent even peacefUl protest;" she said. · :Yet, Hilton does not expect the··enactroent of the bill to apply to her method of peace­ful demonstrating, which shebas been doing once a week for the past.three years. 'fRight to Ufe will continue to peacefully demonstrl:lte in spite oftbe bill," she said. "We usually do only sidewalk 
·see AB0RTI9N l page 4 


Senate addresses parietals 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
A more scientific survey discussing parietals was approved by the Office of Student Affairs. but students are advised not to become too optimistic, according to Student Body Vice President 
STUDENT SENATE 
Nikki Wellmann at last night's Student Senate meet­ing. 
The initial survey asked students if they would be interested in extending pari­etals, and it was well sup­ported. Wellmann said. 
"Some people were not supportive of the survey because the survey was not scientific enough," she said. 
They also discussed form­ing a better communication channel between Student Senate and administration departments. such as Student Affairs. 
Students are concerned that. their needs are not being met and Student Senate would like to find a way to get better responses to proposals, according to Student Body President Frank Flynn. 
In other senate matters, there was little support for a proposed change in the meal 
see SENATE I page 4 




Separation ofchurch, state rule may change 
By LAURIE ASSEO 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Supre'me Court agreed Monday to consider revising its 22-year-old rule for interpret­ing the constitutionally required separation of church and state. 
The high court said it will use a case involving a New York school district created for dis­abled children of a Hasidic Jewish community to decide how far government can go to accommodate religious prac­tices. 
New York courts ruled that the creation of the Kiryas Joel Village School District was an unconstitutional government endorsement of religion. 
The school district is asking the high court to overturn the landmark 1971 ruling it has used in deciding many church­state cases. The court has re­examined that ruling several times in past years but each time stopped short of replacing it. 
''I'm not looking for a lower standard," said school district lawyer George Shebitz. ''I'm looking for a more appropriate standard, a workable stan­dard." 
But Steven Green of Americans United for Separation of Church and State said any decision dismantling the 1971 standard "could lead to wholesale tax support for religious education." 
In other action Monday, the court: 
-Agreed to decide, in an 
Oregon case, how far gov­ernment may go in requiring private land to be used for envi­ronmental purposes. 
-Turned down an appeal by the New York City Transit Authority, which was ordered to pay $4.3 million to a subway mugger who was shot and paralyzed while trying to escape from transit police. 
-Allowed jailed political can­didate Lyndon LaRouche to col­lect federal matching funds for his 1992 presidential campaign. 
-Left intact a ruling that Colorado State University vio­lated a federal anti-bias law when it dropped its women's fast-pitch softball team. 
The high court's ruling in the religion case is expected by July. Meanwhile, the justices are allowing the Kiryas Joel district in Orange County, N.Y., to continue operating. 
The court's 1971 ruling in Lemon vs. Kurtzman said laws or government practices are unconstitutional if they have a religious purpose, primarily advance or promote religion, or excessively entangle govern­ment and religion. 
The high court in recent years has decided several cases in which it had been asked to overturn the 1971 decision. 
The sternest test came in 
1992, when the court reaf­
firmed its 31-year ban on offi­
cially sponsored prayers in 
public schools. The court split 
5-4 in rejecting the Bush 
administration's attempt to 

replace the 1971 standard with one more accommodating to religion. 
That led an outraged Justice Antonin Scalia to call the 1971 ruling "a bulldozer of ... social engineering." Joining him in dissent in the school-prayer decision last year were Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justices Clarence Thomas and Byron White. 
White since has been re­placed by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. 
Officials of the New York State School Boards Association challenged state lawmakers' 1989 creation of the Kiryas Joel district, calling it an impermis­sible accommodation of a Jewish sect's beliefs. 
Almost all village residents are members of the Satmar Hasidic sect. The group main­tains an insular community where religious ritual and dis­tinctive dress are observed, Yiddish is often spoken, and girls and boys are educated separately. 
Most children in the village attend private religious schools. Disabled children went to a public school until their parents withdrew them, saying they were traumatized by going to school outside the Kiryas Joel village. 
The public Kiryas Joel school district was created to accom­modate the disabled students' needs. It teaches a secular curriculum to mixed classes of girls and boys. 
New York courts ruled that 
creation of the district violated 
the Constitution by yielding to 
the Jewish sect's beliefs. 
Another public school district and state Attorney General Robert Abrams joined the Kiryas Joel school district in ap­pealing those rulings. 
The Supreme Court has repeatedly held that ac­commodating the needs of reli­gious people does not necessar­ily violate the Constitution, the Kiryas Joel appeal said. 
But lawyers for the School Boards Association said the main effect of creating the Kiryas Joel district was "to involve the state in sponsorship of Satmar separatist precepts." 
The court also took these actions Monday: 
-Agreed to decide whether federal courts may delay a Texas death-row inmate's exe­cution so a lawyer can be appointed to challenge the con­viction's validity. 
-Rejected a challenge to a Georgia workers' compensation law that provides sharply lower death benefits if a worker's dependents are non-U.S. citi­zens living abroad. 
-Let South Carolina tax the income of a business that licenses the use of its trade­marks in the state but is not located there. 
-Turned aside an insurance industry attack on a Virginia law regulating the way man­aged health-care systems choose doctors and hospitals to deliver services. 
-Agreed to decide in a case from Los Angeles whether the federal government can force lawyers for failed savings and loans to pay damages for not exposing insider wrongdoing. 

~--l 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, November 30, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Anything but 
Dallas and 
TexasA&M 
The forecast: Zero 
degrees with blustery winds and freezing rain. The Vegas spread: Irish by 
20. The final: maybe 58­27, if the bad guys get lucky. 
Notre Dame vs. Navy? No, Texas A&M. But 

what's the difference? 

Rolando de Aguiar 
Not much. 

Viewpoinr Editor 
Both are decent schools with military traditions -------­whose football teams should be facing ofT in the Division III playoffs right now. But could Navy beat St. John's (Minn.)? Maybe. Whether A&M can match up with Notre Dame isn't even a question. But if what the experts say is true, West Virginia will send Notre Dame to Dallas this January 1 to play the Ags. The Mountain Men 
match up more closely with both A&M and Nebraska (and Navy) than they do against Florida or Alabama (or Notre Dame), but they'll 
still get dibs, and they'll still pick the Sugar Bowl. And Notre Dame students will make their reservations to Dallas. 
They wanted to stumble down Bourbon Street, clad only in sweat, happy after a hard­earned defeat of Alabama or Florida. But instead, they'll have to settle for the warmest room they can find in Dallas after Lou dumps A&M again. 
Last year, it wasn't close. 28-3, by the official count, but the whupping was much more severe than the score indicated. Notre Dame stung the Aggies like a bolt of lightning thrown down from the heavens by Knute Hockne himself. The Irish just struck and kept on striking, despite the weather . 
Dallas is less remembered by Irish fans for the television show or Hoss Perot than for its unbearable temperature last New Year's Day, which hovered somewhere between Greg Hill's IQ and Aaron Taylor's shoe size. Last year's game had many Irish fans wondering how Lou fit South Bend's weather into the plane to Dallas. But it wasn't the mystique. 
Dallas's weather generally stinks during the winter. The nastiest season doesn't last as long as it does here in Michiana, but it's long enough, and when the weather's cold, it's very unpleasant. The last time anyone noticed a nice day in Dallas after Halloween was the last time anyone drove past the Book Depository with the top down. 
Miami, on the other hand, always has balmy weather. It feels especially hot and muggy when you're involved in a high-speed chase with a gun-wielding tourist killer. And New Orleans is beautiful in the winter. Or at least it seemed warm to the Notre Dame students lying in the gutters two bowl games ago. 
But Dallas? 

The city has great architecture, friendly peo­ple and incredible shopping. But it also has a terrible team and terrible weather cuffed to its bowl game. 
The Bowl Coalition should bring St. Paul (Minn.) down to play A&M in the Cotton Bowl. And send Notre Dame somewhere else to play some other team. 
Anyone but Texas A&M. 
Anywhere but Dallas. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o Th(' Obserller. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Production  
Laura Ferguson  John Rock  
Liz Foran  Jackie Moser  
Sports  Accent  
Beth Regan  Lynn Bauwens  
Viewpoint  Honora Buckley  
Lynn Bauwens  Graphics  
Lab Tech  Chris Weirup  
John Bingham  

The Obscrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Obscrvcr is a memb<or of fhc As!.ociarcd Press. All rcprodunion rights arc reserved. 
Lettermen to start speeding legally INDIANAPOLIS 
David Letterman, who has racked up his share of speeding tickets, dreams about putting his love for fast cars and the Indianapolis 500 into high gear by bankrolling an Indy car racing team. "It's a small dream of mine," he told the Indianapolis News. "I don't know if it will ever come to fruition, but (rac­ing) is the one area outside of broad­casting in which I have a professional interest." The 46-year-old "Late Night" 


talk show host, an Indiana native, is a lifelong auto rac­ing fan. He often jokes about the traffic tickets he's accu­mulated commuting to work in New York from his Connecticut home. 
Friars sexually abused teenagers 
GOLETA, Calif. 

At least 34 teen-age boys were sexually abused by a dozen Homan Catholic priests during decades of nude games, fondling and sex acts at a now-closed seminary, a panel organized by the Franciscan order concluded Monday. "The abuse perpetrated by our own brothers on the victims and their families is truly horrific," said Joseph Chinnici, provincial minister of the Oakland-based Province of St. Barbara and leader of Franciscans in seven Western states. "We totally abhor what has occurred," Chinnici said. An independent panel was set up in January by the St. Barbara Province of the Franciscan Order to examine molestations from 1964 to 1987 at St. Anthony's Seminary, which operated a high school boarding school for aspiring priests in Santa Barbara County. The seminary opened in 1898 and closed because of financial problems in 1987. 
Jesus picture will not staay in public school 
GRANO HAPIOS, Mich. 

A federal judge who said he received death threats for ordering a picture of Jesus Christ removed from a high school hallway rejected a settlement Monday that would have added portraits of other historical figures to the dis­play. U.S. District Judge Benjamin Gibson said the settle­ment reached by lawyers "still violates the Constitution and promotes a particular religion excessively by a public body." The lawsuit was filed 13 months ago by Eric Pensinger, then a senior at Bloomingdale High School. He said the large framed picture of Christ that had been hanging in the public school's hallway since it was donat­ed in the 1960s violated the constitutional ban on govern­ment establishment of religion. In February, Gibson ordered the picture removed but allowed it to remain, covered with a cloth, while the school district appealed. The appellate court is expected to rule in the coming weeks on the school's motion to dismiss the case. 
Kelso didn't realize abuse took place 
NOHFOLK, Va. 

The Navy's highest-ranking uniformed officer said under oath Monday he never saw any misconduct at the 1991 Tailhook aviators convention and was unaware until months later that women were abused there. "I didn't know of anything that happened at Tailhook," Adm. Frank B. Kelso II testified at a military court hear­ing for two officers charged in the scandal. He told mili­tary judge William T. Vest Jr. he was never on the third floor of the Las Vegas Hilton on Saturday, Sept. 7, 1991, when 83 women have said they were sexually assaulted. Former Navy Secretary H. Lawrence Garrett III testified later that he was on the third floor that night and didn't see Kelso or any wrongdoing. Kelso and Garrett testified in the cases of Cmdrs. Thomas Miller and Gregory Tritt. The pair face court-martial for the Tailhook scandal unless Vest agrees to drop charges against them. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 30.
Tuesday, Nov. 30 Accu~ Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones lor lhe day. 
OHIO 
jlndianapoli3 43° I 

ILL. 
• 


FRONTS: 
..........---r............_ ........... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1993 Accu·Weather, Inc 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~ ff#d ffiSS
KY. 

H L Dallas 52 44 New York 60 49 Denver 54 18 Philadelphia 61 52
Atlanta 81 61 London 46 38 Rome 66 52
Baltimore 62 49 
Los AngelL'S 77 49 San Francisco 64 46
Boston 58 47 
Miami 82 77 SeaHie 49 41
Chicago 42 38 
45

Minneapolis 38 32 Seoul 66
Columbus 53 45 
New Orleans 81 66 Toronto 6ll 55 

Pearl Jam cancles concert 
BOULDEH, Colo. 
Grunge rockers Pearl Jam pulled out of a concert just hours before showtime in a dispute with security forces over how to han­dle "moshing," the rowdy, high­contact dancing common at their shows. The band led by singer Eddie Vedder postponed the last of three sold-out concerts Sunday at the University of Colorado, an­gry about crowd control measures at the two previous shows. At the end of Saturday's set, band mem­bers began criticizing stage secu­rity, complaining that fans were being treated too roughly. Campus police received com­plaints about mushing at a Cypress Hill concert last month and planned to eject moshers at future shows. But by Friday evening, the university agreed to a plan that has worked in Europe. Fans directly in front of the stage, where moshing takes place, were corralled to minimize the impact on the rest of the crowd. Four rowdy dancers were arrested Friday and promoter Bill Bass said the band felt security tactics went overboard the following night. The show will be resched­uled elsewhere in the area in March. The roughly 4,000 tick­etholders can use their tickets then or obtain a refund. 
Neighbors: Light show a Yuletide nuisance 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. 
For years, Jennings and Mitzi Osborne have caused traffic jams as they've dazzled passersby with their vast and ever-growing Christmas displays, which twinkle with more than a million lights. But when they bought the houses next door to expand, neighors decided they had had enough electrified holiday cheer. Their lawsuit, demanding that the Osbornes pull the plug on their holi­day display, went to trial Monday. The Osbornes say their light show, begun in 1986, is their constitutionally pro· tected way of sharing the season's cheer. They haven't disclosed their electric bill, but one year they blew a transformer and blacked out part of their affiuent neigh­borhood. The lawsuit was tiled after the Osbornes, who own a medical testing laboratory, strung 1.6 million lights last year and bought the houses on both sides of them with the promise of a bigger spectacle this year. 
It's easier for fathers to declare paternity 
WASHif.JGTON 
Unwed fathers would lind it easier to acknowledge legal paternity, before their newborn child leaves the hospital, under regulations proposed Monday by the gov­ernment. The regulations will implement part of President Clinton's deficit-cutting legislation, enacted earlier this year. The administration believes a simpler process for establishing paternity, particularly at hospi­tals, could increase child support collections and reduce welfare payments to single parents. Under the new law, states are required to establish a simple civil process for voluntarily acknowledging paternity. States also must set up paternity establishment programs in every public and private hospital with an obstetric ward and at birthing centers associated with hospitals. States also must include due process safeguards and an explanation of the rights and responsibilities of acknowledging paternity. 


------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, November 30, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
SECURITY BEAT 
WED., NOV. 24 

3 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident l'l'i!port­ed his duffle bag was stolen from the main gate circle. 
4:18 p.m. A Badin Hall resident re­port!ild the theft of her license plate from her vehicle while park!ild in the 006. 
4:19 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident re­port!ild receiving an obscene phone mes­sage left on her answering machine. 
6:15 p.m. A Farley .hall resident re­port!ild her license plate was stolen from her vehicle while park!ild in the 002 lot. 
THURS., NOV. 25 

7:10p.m. A South Bend resident was cited for driving with a suspended dri· ver's license. 
FRI., NOV. 26 

1 :20 p.m. A O'Hara Grace Townhouse resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
8:31 p.m. A South Bend resident was cited for speeding while driving on Juniper. 
11 :58 p.m. A Grace Hall resident was apprehended by a library monitor while attempting to take a book from the library. 
SAT., NOV. 27 

7:20 p.m. A non-community member was apprehended by Security in the 1st floor lounge at Grace Hall. He was issued a tresspass letter and escorted off campus. The investigation is continuing. 
SUN., NOV. 28 

10:19 a.m. $ect,~rily and Notre Dame Fire Department responded to a minor fire at the South Dining Hall. 
6 p.m. A Badin Hall resident reported the theft of her license plate Iron her vehicle while parked in the 006 parking lot. 
Observer/Erika Quinn 
s this going to explode? 
'u'''·~·-~~ major Huong Mai completes an experiment in the lab while same time learning the value of safety goggles. 
Government gets support for contracts 
By ROBERT BARR to trying to bring about peace," Associated Press Adams said in an interview with Independent Television 
LONDON News. 
The government won praise Mayhew and Prime Minister and encouragement in the John Major were embarrassed House of Commons on Monday over the weekend when The as it defended its secret con­Observer published a document tacts with the Irish Republican exposing the secret contacts. Army. Both sides left the door Some Protestant lawmakers open for more exchanges. from Northern Ireland called 
for the resignation of Mayhew 

Only Protestant lawmakers and even Major, who had from Northern Ireland criti­strongly denied that any talks cized the government; others were taking place. across the political spectrum Fears have been rising supported the peace initiatives. among Protestants in Northern 
"We shall keep exploring Ireland that a British deal with again and again the oppor­the IRA could eventually end tunities for peace," said Sir the province's union with Patrick Mayhew, the Cabinet Britain and make them a official responsible for minority in a reunited Ireland Northern Ireland. dominated by Roman Catholics. 
Gerry Adams, leader of Sinn "I think there is no question Fein, the party that supports of resigning by reason of any the Irish Republican Army's efforts that I or the prime min­campaign to end British rule in ister have made to secure, by the province, said he expected proper means, peace in contacts to continue, although Northern Ireland," Mayhew he accused the British govern­said, drawing cheers from ment of lying and of inventing Conservative Party colleagues. excuses for not negotiating. He released copies of the gov­
"Sinn Fein is committed, and ernment's communications 
I personally ... am committed, with the IRA and its allies. 

SuM~ 5E:RVtce 11toJE:CTS 
Computer programming club places in regionals 
Information Meeting: 
Dec. 1 (Wed.) 5:30 -6:00 pm Center for Social Concerns 
Application Deadline February 11 
$1500.00 SCHOLARSHIP (NO Students only) 
Eight weeks of service work during the summer 
In cities of ND Alumni Clubs across the US 
Come and find out what SSPs are all about 
Special to The Observer 
A team from the University of Notre Dame's computer pro­gramming club placed twenti­eth in the annual East Central :Regional programming contest Nov. 6 at the University of Waterloo in Ontario, Canada. Two Notre Dame teams com­peted in a field of 80 teams from the region. 
Each competing team was challenged to solve eight prob­lems in five hours. Notre Dame's A team placed ahead of the 1992 world champions, Michigan State, and .also ahead of Indiana and Purdue Universities. 
Team A consisted of junior Brian McCandless from Omaha, Neb., and seniors David Sion from Newark, Del., and James Scott from Springfield, Va. 
Notre Dame's B team-junior Joseph George from Dayton, Ohio, and sophomores Junlei li from South Bend and Chris Sophie from Loveland, Ohio­finished fortieth in the contest. 
The programmers are all ma­jors in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, which sponsored the teams. 
The University of Waterloo won the contest and the University of Michigan finished second. The two teams will rep­resent the region at the world finals in February in Phoenix. 
The East Central region in­cludes Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, West Virginia, western Pennsylvania, and Ontario. 


NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERALUNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FoR SPRING SEMESTER '93-'94 & '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FOR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 








232-8256 
Ifyou see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5305 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE 
OFT~HIP? 
~ 
A workshop for couples m a senous relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future ­including the: possibility of marriage. 
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 5 1:00 -5:00 PM 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
-Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP, BUT ... REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY DECEMBER 3 
Applications can be filled out at either Campus Ministry Office: 
Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Call 631-5242 for more information 

Senate 
continued from page 1 

plan at the dining halls since the price would not alter much, according to HPC representa­tive Kara Christopherson. 
The cost of this plan would be more reflective than the current plan of what students eat. 
Following an initial recom­mendation by Student Senate, outside consultants contracted by Food Services are currently determining whether the University should implement an outside vendor in all of the Food Service facilities, Christopherson said. 

Abortion 
continued from page 1 

counseling, which is peaceful." 
But, Hilton's opposition to the bill is not shared by Ann Clark, chair of the Saint Mary's phi­losophy department, who is pro-choice. 
"I think that the bill is a good thing; something that needed to be done," she said. 
Clark said that she saw no conflict between the bill and the possible restriction of first amendment rights. 
The bill will also make shoot­ings and threats of violence against doctors and nurses who perform abortions a federal crime, will allow the F.B.I. to investigate attacks on clinics and abortion performers, and 
Tuesday, November 30, 1993
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 



Kevorkian is a fugitive after failure to surrender 
By JULIA PRODIS Associated Press 

ROYAL OAK, Mich. ... A judge issued an arrest war­rant Monday for Dr. Jack·~· Kevorkian on a new charge of
.!";'

,..... assisting a suicide. Kevorkian 
.... 

was declared a fugitive after failing to surrender when authorities said he had promised to. 
The judge signed the warrant charging Kevorkian for last month's suicide of 72-year-old Merian Frederick, said Larry Kozma of the Oakland County Prosecutor's Office. 
Earlier Monday, Prosecutor Richard Thompson said 
Otter shows off some of the items available at the UNICEF card and gift sale. The sale will be 
Kevorkian attorney Michael 
wA,AKI:l~\'!'0; this week and next in the Concourse from 9 -4 Schwartz had told him the 
retired pathologist would surrender later in the day. 
U.S. continues aid ban to 
"Mr. Schwartz has not kept his word," Kozma said. He said police were searching for

Pakistan due to nuclear arms 
By GEORGE GEDDA 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration, signaling a shift in a policy out­lined just last week, said Monday that Pakistan will con­tinue to be ineligible for U.S. assistance because of its pro­gram to develop nuclear weapons. 
The administration had said last Wednesday that an amend­ment keeping Pakistan from receiving assistance was having an adverse impact on U.S. ef­forts to curb the proliferation of weapons in South Asia. 
Under an amendment au­thored by Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D., a suspension of aid to Pakistan was required if the United States concluded that Pakistan was trying to develop a nuclear weapon. The amend­ment, approved in 1985, was applied in 1990, ending an 
extended period in which Pakistan was a leading aid recipient. 
On Monday, acting State Department spokeswoman Christine Shelly confirmed that the administration seeks repeal of the Pressler amendment but only as part of a new policy aimed at avoiding legislation death of Dr. Ali Khalili in the same apartment remains under investigation. 
Kevorkian already faces assisted-suicide eharges in two deaths in neighboring Wayne County. The crime carries up to four years in prison and a $2,000 fine on conviction. 
Sehwartz denied he had bro­ken any promise to prosecutors and said Kevorkian would sur­render at 9 a.m. Tuesday. 
"He's not going to flee," Schwartz said. 
Kevorkian, 65, has threat­ened a hunger strike if jailed. He refused solid food, but accepted juice, water and vita­mins, during a three-day stay earlier this month in the Wayne County Jail. 
The new warrant was issued less than a day after police raided Kevorkian's apartment. 
Kevorkian said officers "burst in" Sunday night as his sister and two friends arrived to visit. Schwartz said the apartment was subjected to a search with­out a warrant. 
U.S. District Judge Gerald Rosen denied Schwartz's request that he take action against Thompson and police for harassment. 
Kevorkian. 

Frederick, who had amy­otrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, died Oct. 22 by inhaling carbon monox­ide in an apartment next to the one in which Kevorkian lives in Royal Oak. 
Thompson said last week's 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEMBERS PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEMBERS PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEMBERS 


Pick up the 
J.D)mcJEJMIJBJEIR Nraw~ILJETTJEIR 
Mail To:

NOW 
Name 

LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO 
The Graduate offers an evening 
School 
of Business MBA 
Professional education for positions of leadership in the Jesuit tradition of excellence. 
Candidates may begin program in any quarter. 
For information call312-915-6120 or complete coupon below. 
Water Tower Campus Loyola is an 820 North Michigan Avenue equal opportunity Chicago, Illinois b0611 employer/educator. 
UNil 
Loyola University Chicago Graduate Business School 820 N. Michigan Ave. • Chicago, IL 60611 
Telephone No. 




at 104 O'Shag 
Mailing Address City State Zip
r the latest law school info! 






STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS: 
,c.,.
~
0 . 
. ·A: /.· ­
·e':· / 

~;::;-·· You Have Seen Them on: 
i~ JJ r> J
il

1flhre ·0 dt· .::.;r••r1u'J\f 
Tuesday, Nov. 30 
7:30 p.m. Tickets 
and Now You Can See Them at: 
$5.00 for students Moreau Little Theatre 
®~1JlftlH NJ ~l!Y'Y '!)© $8.0·3 for community 
Limited Seating !!!!! · Tickets Available at the Saint Mary's Box Office 
A CAPPELLA FUNKY FELLAS 



Tuesday, November 30, 1993 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Airlines argue against fees at Michigan airport 
In Los Angeles, for example, the city is threatening to bar 90 percent of carriers from land­ing at Los Angeles International Airport starting this Saturday if carriers don't agree to pay higher landing fees. 
The Supreme Court decision is expected by July. 
Walter Smith Jr., a lawyer for seven commercial airlines, argued that a lack of restric­tions on user fees ultimately gouges airline customers. He also accused the Grand Rapids airport of discriminating against interstate carriers because it charges lower fees to intrastate carriers. 
Fritz Hunting, the lawyer rep­resenting the airport, argued that the landlord-tenant rela­tionship between an airport and airlines doesn't give air­lines a right to complain about rates being charged a different category of tenants. 
Happy 21st 



Elisa 

May the Luck ofthe Irish be with you forever! 
Love, Dad, Mom, Kenna & Maura 

By LISA ZAGAROLI 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Airlines are being charged illegally excessive fees by a Grand Rapids, Mich., airport, the Supreme Court was told Monday in a case that may affect rate-setting powers of airports -and passenger tick­et prices-nationwide. 
The court must decide whether a 1973 federal law that spares airlines and their passengers from "unreason­able" state and local fees should be invoked to restrict the user fees Kent County International Airport charges airlines. 
If the justices side with the airlines, airports nationwide could be held more accountable for the fees they charge to use their facilities. 

NASA frets as repair mission nears 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
It's one of the most important missions in space shuttle histo­ry and by far the most complex. Repairing the Hubble Space Telescope -a colossal job ­has NASA fretting over two lit­tle words. 
What if? 

What if space shuttle Endeavour can't rendezvous with the nearsighted Hubble? What if the shuttle robot arm breaks and can't grab the $1.6 billion telescope? What if the telescope's solar wings don't fold up? What if the telescope is in worse shape than expected? What if one of the seven astro­nauts gets sick? What if the shuttle toilet breaks and forces an early return? 
Put it all together and you've got a nightmare of astronomi­cal proportions for a $629 mil­lion repair mission. 
Nightmares -and imagina­tion -were running rampant Monday at Kennedy Space Center as NASA counted down toward the scheduled 4:57 a.m. EST Wednesday launch of Endeavour. 
During the 11-day flight, astronauts are to take a record five spacewalks to try fix Hubble's problems as well as NASA's image, battered repeat­edly over the past several years and in desperate need of a big win. If necessary, the crew could conduct seven space­walks to install 11 new tele­scope parts and yet another spacewalk to deal with a shut­tle emergency. 
Hubble program manager 
Ken Ledbetter said his biggest 
Fixing Hubble's blurry vision 
sensors in replaceable modules. One instrument will be replaced with corrective optics to undo blur caused by primary mirror. 

Source: NASA; Space Telescope Science Institute AP KariTate 
fear is that "something might working (on Hubble). But if happen that would preclude us something were to happen from even trying to fix the tele-before, a problem with the scope." shuttle, a problem with the 
"I think we can handle any-crew, an attack of appendicitis thing that will happen once or whatever ... that would be we're out in the bay and start tragic." 




=L==.:.~~ 
page6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 30, 1993 
Clinton complains about Ukrainian deal 
, 
:/'"' } 
avanaugh juniors Adam Kane, Geoff Caplea and Lou Weber spread holiday cheer while erecting tree outside the hall. This is the last tree h will see as an all-male dorm. 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Clinton called Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk on Monday and com­plained that his parliament was backpedaling on promises to give up its nuclear weapons. Kravchuk promised to have a newly elected parliament reconsider Ukraine's nuclear status. 
Clinton's half-hour con­versation with Kravchuk was described as "frank and open" -diplomatic terms often used to mask sharp differences. 
White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers said Clinton "expressed his sort of unhappi­ness" with the Ukrainian par­liament, which ratified the START I nuclear treaty last week but with so many condi­tions that it cast doubt on the sincerity of the vote. 
The parliament asserted that Ukraine is not bound by a May 1992 protocol that calls for Ukraine to abide by the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Lawmakers also demanded financial compensation for giv­ing up the nuclear arsenal and security guarantees from the West and Hussia. 
"The president expressed his concern to President Kravchuk about this incomplete action on STAin I and the protocol," Myers said. 
"We expect Ukraine to live up to its nuclear obligations," she said. 
Kravchuk assured Clinton that he would resubmit the treaty and the protocol as a package to a new parliament that will be elected in March, Myers said. 


President-elect vows war on crin1e 
By JOHN RICE 
Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras 
President-elect Carlos Heina vowed Monday to wage war on crime, poverty and human­rights abuses in Honduras. But his greatest challenge may be his plan to cut the military bud­get. 
"I will gradually reduce mili­tary spending through a pro­gram coordinated with the armed forces" as part of broad efforts to trim the $600 million budget deficit, he said a day after the presidential elections. 
Heina added, "the army will have a high capacity under the new situation in line with the needs of the nation." 
Although the military dic­tatorship ended in 1980, the military remains autonomous. 
Nearly complete election results from Sunday's balloting showed Heina with a surpris­ingly large 53 percent of the vote, against 40 percent for the candidate of the ruling National Party, Oswaldo Soto. Heina's party also won at least 70 of 128 seats in the congress. 
The president-elect outlined plans to move boldly against corruption and rights abuses. 
In an uncharacteristically flamboyant metaphor, Reina vowed to use a machete to "make the fingernails fly" from the hands of corrupt public offi­cials, to shake up the widely reviled judicial system and impose tighter scrutiny on gov­ernment spending. 
In general, though, his style is strikingly austere by the gaudy standards of Central American politicians. 
He spent the night after his election at his apartment over a grocery store in downtown Tegucigalpa. By dawn, no guards were visible. 
A lone aide removed cam­paign flags from Reina's car, which was parked on the street, inches from passing city buses. Three shabby drunks sat and mumbled on the sidewalk across the narrow street from Heina's front door. 
Heina also vowed to coop­erate with international human rights agencies, which have often criticized Honduras' for failure to punish political mur­ders. 
Heina campaigned to end mandatory two-year military service and remove the police from army control. Early Monday, he suggested the mili­tary chief might be converted into a defense minister ­which would bring him under civilian control. 
But it was not certain how such plans would be im­plemented. 
Honduras' 26,000-man army, while one of the smallest in the region, won freedom from civil­ian interference as a price for giving up power and has been slow to accept political med­dling. 
The military already suffered a 10 percent budget cut under outgoing President Hafael Callejas, as well as a loss of more than $100 million yearly in U.S. military aid. 
Reina said he would re-exam­ine Callejas' economic austerity plan, which has been praised abroad but has caused hard­ship for Honduras' poor ­some 65 percent of the popula­tion of 5.5 million. 
He said he would seek rene­gotiation of Honduras' $3.5 bil­lion debt, saying "the debt will not continue to be paid with the lives of Hondurans." 
As You WisH IMPORTS 
Christmas Sale!! 
Get unique handmade Christmas Gifts at just above WHOLESALE or CLEARANCE prices! 
Imported jewelry, Clothing, and accessories from: 
Guatemala Peru Mexico Greece Afghanistan Nepal India 
(Also 3 Lines ofjewelry by American artists.) 
LaFortune Room 108 (near TV). Nov. 22-Nov. 24 and Nov. 29 -Dec. 4 (Sat.) 
11:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 
The Alumni Assoc. & Senior Class Council bring you ... 
"THE GREAT TASTE OF SOUTH BEND" 
Saturday, December 4, 7:30p.m. at Senior Bar 
Celebrate the season by sampling food from many of South Bend's favorite restaurants & enjoy great Senior Bar specials. Keeping with ND's great tradition of Christmas gatherings, dress is semi-formal, date optional. 
Tickets include food & DJ $6 each, $10 per couple 
on sale soon at Lafortune Info. desk. 
THE ENGLISH DEPARTMENT IS PLEASED TO OFFER THE FOLLOWING COURSES: 
ENGL 457Z Call No. 5799 Seminar: Studies in 18th Century Poetry TH 2:45-4:00 Christopher Fox 
Permission required 
For description, see ENOL 550B in Course Description booklet ENGL 465A Call No. 5801 Victorian Literature & Culture TH 1:15-2:30 C. Vanden Bossche For description, see ENGL 567 in Course Description booklet 
ENGL 497E Call No. 5800 Objectivist Strain in American Poetry MW 2:20-3:35 Stephen Fredman For description, see ENOL 590B in Course Description booklet 
Benefits South Bend Center for the Homeless 
ENGL 440E Call No. 5141 Spenser's Faerie Queen MW 12:50-2:05 T. Krier The enrollment count has been increased to 14 students 



Must be 21 to participate 

Tuesday, November 30, 1993 
The Observer • NEWS page 7 



American diplomat released Warrior takes time out 
to try to run Mghanistan
Associated Press 
SAN'A, Yemen 
Kidnapped U.S. diplomat Haynes Mahoney III was released late Monday by Yemeni tribesmen who had held him hostage at their desert stronghold, Interior Minister Yehya al-Mutawakil said. 
The minister told The Associated Press that Mahoney was released at 10:30 p.m (2:30 
p.m. EST). He was kidnapped Thursday on his way to a Thanksgiving dinner. 
"We have met all the de­mands of the kidnappers. We pledge to carry them out," the minister said in a telephone interview. He said Mahoney already had been returned to the capital, San'a. 
The demands included pay­ment to the tribe for an oil­pumping station used by the 
U.S Yemen Hunt Oil Co., back salaries for 150 tribesmen who were discharged from the presidential guard, back salaries for a number of simi­larly discharged officers and an economic development plan for the tribe's region, said Saleh al­Tam, a provincial official of the Yemen Socialist Party, one of the country's main political groups. 
Five gunmen abducted Mahoney, the head of the U.S. Information Service office, Thursday in San'a after he left a reception at the Taj Sheba hotel and headed to a friend's house for Thanksgiving dinner. 
Al-Mutawakil and some influ­ential tribal chiefs had negoti­ated with the tribe holding Mahoney in the desert strong­hold at Gahm, 45 miles north­east of San' a. 
The Saudi Arabian daily Asharq Al-Awsat, which closely watches Yemen, reported Monday that authorities had seized "a number of relatives" of the tribal leader, Sheik Mubarak Saleh al-Sa'idi, in an effort to speed the American's release. 

Tribal sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press that the detained relatives included the sheik's son. 
Government officials would not confirm or deny the reports. 
Yemen is in the throes of a severe political crisis because of differences between President Ali Abdullah Saleh and Vice President Ali Salem al-Beidh over the pace of re­forms, including the failure to rein in an unruly security situa­tion in a nation of armed tribes­men. 
Mahoney, a widely traveled diplomat in his 40s whose father, retired diplomat Haynes Mahoney II lives in Boston, had sent his wife and Ambassador Arthur Hughes a stream of handwritten notes saying his kidnappers are treating him well. 
The elder Mahoney was dri­ving on Cape Cod when he heard the news of the release on the car radio. His reaction was "complete elation," he said. "I blew the horn." 
Mahoney is the first foreign diplomat among 200 other for­eigners that local press reports said had been kidnapped over the past 18 months. 
The news accounts said most of the kidnapped foreigners were released after a few days and that their abductors demands included employment for their men, the release of imprisoned relatives or im­proved Jiving conditions in their regions. 
ByGREGMYRE 
Associated Press 
Mghanistan 
From this ramshackle road­side village, Prime Minister Gulbuddin Hekmatyar mostly wages war against his enemies. But he does reserve one day a week to sip tea with them at his regular Cabinet meeting. 
In Afghanistan's convoluted civil war, the feuding factions made Hekmatyar head of gov­ernment in May, including some of the very enemies he now battles. 
But he's yet to enter the near­by capital of Kabul for fear of attack from his countless rivals -including the president who put him in power -he's accumulated during almost two decades as a guerrilla fighter. 
"Unfortunately, the fighting is still going on," the terse, soft­spoken Hekmatyar said in a recent interview with The Associated Press. "The city needs to be vacated by all armed parties." 
Since Hekmatyar and his hard-line Hezb-e-Islami faction are at odds with President Burhanuddin Rabbani, the fragmented government comes to him in this dilapidated col­lection of adobe huts and farm fields 15-miles south of Kabul. 
For the Sunday Cabinet meet­ings, government ministers pile into chauffeured Mercedes­Benzes and travel from their Kabul offices to Hekmatyar's base in a heavily armed convoy. 
Nine separate factions each hold two seats in the 18-mem­ber Cabinet, which has limited authority, almost no money and remains hopelessly divided. 
The parties agree Afghanistan should be an Islamic state, and some of the ministries manage to function. But more often than not, the ministers disagree. That's not surprising, as the rival parties are often firing rockets at one another from the brown, bar­ren hills that surround the dev­astated capital. 
"Relations in the Cabinet are good," maintains Hekmatyar. But he concedes the current ar­rangement is not the best way to run a government and hopes his seat of power can soon move to Kabul. 
An estimated 10,000 people have been killed since April 1992, when the Islamic militias started shooting at one another in a bid for power after ousting the Communist government installed by the former Soviet Union. At least six factions con­trol parts of Kabul, a scenario reminiscent of Beirut, Lebanon, in the 1980s. 
Hekmatyar, who has fought a succession of rulers in Kabul since his student days in the mid-1970s, heads an uncom­promismg fundamentalist movement that's considered the country's second strongest party. 
President Rabbani's Jamiat­e-Islami party is the leading group and holds most key parts of the capital, including the bul­let-pocked presidential palace. 
"The jihad (holy war) for an Islamic government has suc­ceeded," said Mohammed Fazli, the vice president who belongs to Rabbani's party. 

//").  Looks like a Vivarin night. The big one's only 11 hours away. You could have paid more attention in class, but tonight you've gotta cram. First, you better keep those eyes from closing. Revive with Vivarin. Safe as coffee, it helps keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. So when your most difficult problem to solve is how to stay awake ... make it a Vivarin night! Revive with VIVARIN~ Usa only as dlrecled. Contain• caffeine equivalent to 2 c~ of-. C> 1993 Smith Kline a-:ham.  

-~~------_..,.,.-____.....,....-----~ -----....---.,...._ --·~ -~~-~ ~
~ --------~ 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 30, 1993 

Governing party claims 


Past attackers may face charges 
victory in bitter race 
By TRINA KLEIST 
Associated Press 
MERIDA, Mexico 
Mexico's longtime governing party declared victory Monday in a bitterly contested gover­nor's race tainted by opposition allegations of voter fraud. 
Opposition candidates had said the race for Yucatan state governor would be an early test of President Carlos de Gortari's promise to hold a "clean and fair" presidential election in August. Salinas' Institutional Hevolutionary Party, known by the initials PRJ. has not lost the presidency in its 64-year histo­ry. 
The independent pollster Opinion Profesional gave Federico Hiealde 58 percent to opposition candidate Ana Hosa Payan's 41 percent, based on exit surveys from Sunday's vot­ing. Official results were not expected before late Wednesday. 
Granja Hicalde, a 53-year-old civil engineer, is promising to create 15,000 jobs, mostly through public works, to com­bat rising unemployment. 
But Payan, the 42-year-old mayor of the state capital Merida, refused to concede defeat, saying her National Action party was manipulated by rural vote fraud. She also claimed victory by her conserv­ative party in the key mayoral race in Merida. 
Payan had promised to help Yucatan's impoverished farm­ers, clean up widespread cor­ruption and shake the state free from the political control wielded by party bosses in Mexico City. 
She called for a huge demon­stration on Merida's central plaza Monday evening to be attended by the party's presi­dential candidate, Congressman Diego de Cevallo. 
Payan was bidding to be the fourth opposition leader to be elected governor of a Mexican state since 1989. Before that. critics claim. opponents of the governing party were prevent­ed from winning, usually through fraud. 
National Action spokesman Delmer Peraza detailed a long list of alleged discrepancies. 
"It's very tense and very diffi­cult throughout the state," Peraza said. lie daimed police had stolen ballot boxes, armed youths had threatened voters, and PHI supporters had voted repeatedly in some areas. 
In addition, National Action lawmaker Alfredo Altamirano was inexplicably jailed for two hours Sunday, fellow Congressman Francisco Volio said. 
Payan said the alleged wrongdoing by the PHI showed what voters could expect in the presidential election next August. 
"We have been defending the ballot boxes but the system has continued with its vices," she said. 
The PRJ responded with accusations of its own. Maria Sherman, a PRI central com­mittee organizer, accused National Action members of gathering outside polling places and pressuring voters. 
The National Action party is the second of two opposition parties vowing to mount a for­midable challenge in the presi­dential election. The leading opposition candidate is Cuauhtemoc Cardenas of the leftist Democratic Hevolutionary Party, who near­ly won in 1988. 
The presidential race heated up Sunday when the governing party announced that Luis Colosio, social welfare chief, would be its candidate in the Aug. 24 election. 
In the Merida mayoral race, Opinion Profesional gave National Action's Luis Correa 
49.9 percent of the ballot to 
48.3 percent for Orlando Paredes of the Institutional Revolutionary Party in the Merida mayoral race. 
By many estimates, more than 60 percent of the 677,000 registered voters in this south­eastern farming state went to the polls, one of the highest turnouts ever in the Yucatan. 
By TED ANTHONY 
Associated Press 

FOLCROFT, Pa. 
The three men who bashed a teen-ager senseless with chains and boots were convicted long ago and did their time. For Danny Centrone and his par­ents, the sentence was life. 
On Nov. 6, more than two decades after the attack by motorcycle gang members left him brain-damaged, Centrone died choking on a steak sand­wich. He was 38. 
The medical examiner's office may declare the death murder and a prosecutor could decide once again to charge the three onetime Warlocks gang mem­bers in the 1972 beating. 
"The worst part of this is the victim served a worse sentence than the perpetrators," said Greta Centrone, Danny's moth­er. "They served their sen­tences, lived their lives. But Danny just went on and on." 
Delaware County Medical Examiner Dimitri Contostavlos expects to rule on the case before year's end. 
"Physically there's no ques­tion: He had an impaired ability for eating and a tendency to choke that stemmed directly from his assault," Contostavlos said. "My gut instinct is to cer­tify it as a homicide." 
Such a ruling could prompt District Attorney William Ryan Jr. to reopen the case, though the prosecutor said he's never known another like it. 
Danny Centrone was 17, a basketball player and an aspir­ing carpenter when his life took its terrible turn the night of July 19, 1972. 
He was hanging out with friends in a shopping center parking lot in this working­class Philadelphia suburb. 
!JJffJ(jJ(jJJJ 
tl1J~(J 
!JJOrfllfilrfJfflJJ 




!JU[J]J 
Love, Mom, 'Dad &'Bridget 


Forum on 

Clinton's Health Care Plan 
Tuesday, Nov. 30 7:00p.m. Keenan Hall Basement 
Guest Speaker Dr. Vincent Friedewald 

Some Warlocks drove up and fanned out, demanding revenge from the youth who had beaten one of their members. 
It wasn't Danny. They chose him anyway. 
"His only mistake was not running fast enough," said Danny's sister Christine, 24. 
The beating left Danny with a fractured skull, damaged organs, a back full of stab wounds and a devastated brain. 
He lay comatose for 19 days. When he emerged, he couldn't talk. Then came therapy, retraining, frustration. Finally he went home. 
"The boy that everybody knew as Danny Centrone wasn't there anymore," said Theodore Pastore, the investi­gating officer and now police chief of the community of 7,200. 
Danny regained some speech, but it was slurred and labored. He had little muscle control, and his short-term memory was nearly gone. When he be­came angry and unable to find the words, he'd punch fist into palm. 
"lie was a prisoner in his own body. Everything he learned in high school he remembered. But his body wouldn't respond," his mother said. "He was 17 forever. Be just stopped." 
William Franchi, Robert McCabe and Augustus Lochman were convicted in the beating and sentenced to seven to 14 years. Franchi and McCabe are now 41 and served about 14 and 13 years, respectively. Lochman, who protested his innocence during his 6 1/2 years in prison, is 42. 
Today, Franchi is in federal prison on an unrelated drug conviction. Attempts to reach McCabe and Lochman were unsuccessful; telephone books do not list their names. 
After the attack, Danny's par­ents struggled to care for a boy lost on the verge of manhood who suddenly needed constant supervision. 
Thinking of what might have been was hard on his father, Joseph Centrone, a construc­tion worker. 
"For me to go out and watch boys Danny's age grow up, see them with a wife and a kid, see them on the job ... I had such plans for Danny," Centrone said. Danny stayed home with his parents fur 19 years until he began to deteriorate. In 1991, they placed him in a nursing home. lie died during a week­end visit home. 
While Centrone wants his son's attackers tried for mur­der, his wife is less sure. 
"The hatred's gone. The bit­terness is gone," Mrs. Centrone said. "And they're still horrible. That's their punishment." 
Her son is at peace, she said, adding, "If the system can work properly this time, then let it be." 


103 Hesburgh Library 

OR I E. NT AT/ 0 N 
Make-up meeting: Decemberl (Wed.)
· ..,:·:·.. 
mmm!ll 
~ 
IJl:ll!CI:I
..,
Hr:lft'..,.Olmt. rN D9·U.·'JJ.4l 
Ut·UI·Brf 
~Nomoys 
"".. o.­

---------------~--....-~----------­



BUSINESS 

November 30, 1993 
MBA student get taste of study abroad with Chile prografll 
By Jeffrey Fisher Santiago, Chile as part of a pio­Santiago, the students are able trying to develop. baseball player, is even trying Special toThe Observer neering program to extend the to learn with a much more To this end, groups of stu­to teach the kids how to play 
"Classes, classes... I never educational opportunities of "hands-on" emphasis about dents have worked with Peace baseball with a whiffle ball set imagined business classes like business students into the Latin how business is done in Latin Corp volunteers here in Chile imported from the United this at Notre Dame. I hope there world. America. and visited the poblaciones to States. Though the kids are not is not a crowd on the subway, "Chile was an easy choice for Instead of only researching view the work that is being going to make the little league because I need to look over my the location of this program," how the stock market affects done with the fringe workers of world series any time soon, International Finance before we Associate Dean Joe Guiltinan business in Chile. the students society. It is one thing to see both they and the students are start talking about the inflation stated, "because of the econom­went to the Bolsa de Valores, development in the context of benefitting from the experience. rate in Bolivia. And maybe I'll ic climate in Chile and the pres­Chile's stock market, to learn the stock-traders. Making this entire semester have time grab an empanada ence of the Holy Cross priests." first hand. This type of em­their suits in the Bolsa, and possible has taken concentrated for lunch and e-mail South And Chile has been an ideal phasis has extended to all quite another to talk with work from many people who Bend to find out whether or not location to couple the goals of a aspects of the business climate microentrepreneurs who are wanted this to happen, not the they have had their first snow sound business education and a in Chile with on site inspections trying to take out a loan of 100 least of all the first students yet up there; there are some well-rounded social experience of all the major industries in dollars to sell vegetables in the who took the chance and trav­benefits in studying in the that makes a degree from Notre Chile: the vineyards of Concho y street. eled almost to the end of the "other" hemisphere." Dame unique. Because, here in Torro, the worlds largest The presence of the Holy world to take part in this inau­
The emphasis might be the Chile, the students have the underground copper mine, El Cross has added to the social gural semester. same, and the classes similar, opportunity to witness an econ­Teniente, and plant tours of the experience immensely. Many of The advantages of studying in but the environment for twenty­omy that has growll over 60% increasingly important areas of the graduate students have Latin America might or might one Notre Dame MBA's is com­in the last seven years and live forestry and fisheries. become involved in the pro­not be reflected in the type of pletely different this fall semes­in a developing third world What makes a degree from grams of community service jobs after graduation, but the ter. social atmosphere at the same Notre Dame unique is the here. experience of living and learn­
This fall is the first time that time. school's emphasis on the social In particular, working with ing about another culture will the Business School has offered Not only is the environment impacts of business, and not the Hogar Santa Cruz, an or­be reflected in the lives of the an international business pro­different, but the educational just an emphasis on making phanage for approximately students long after they leave gram in Latin America. The emphasis is different also. money. Included in this new thirty children from the poorer Santiago. twenty-one students began Because of the unique advan­program is exposure to some sections of Santiago. One stu­Jeff Fisher is an MBA student studying this August in tages of studying in the heart of parts of society that are still dent, who was a collegiate currently living in Chile. 
Analysts: changes needed for 0 PEC decision good for consumers 
By MARYBETH SHERIDAN out the economy, dampening Among them would be if Rus­

survival ofJapan economy 
Associated Press expectations of higher inflation sia cuts its oil exports because NEW YORK and lowering everything from of an especially cold winter atBy ELAINE KURTENBACH production. Officially. unem­From motorists to homeown­mortgage rates to the cost of home or if Iraq hits snags in its 
Associated Press ployment remains at 2.5 per­TOKYO ers to business people, con­airline tickets. push to have the United Nations 
cent. But according to an Asahi sumers should benefit from But analysts cautioned lift the Gulf War embargo on itsProfits are down, unemploy­Bank report, the jobless rate OPEC's decision last week to against expecting too much. oil exports, she said. 
ment is rising, the stock market would be about 6.5 percent if not cut oil production. "The key is whether the de­has lost almost 20 percent of its calculated by U.S. standards. 
While the Organization of cline is transitory or more per­But in the wake of OPEC's de­value in the last month. -Department store sales are Petroleum Exporting Countries manent in nature," said cision, prices for light sweetWinter has come early to the down. Plant and equipment in­is gambling that cold weather Lawrence Goldstein, president crude oil, the industry's bench­Japanese economy-and there vestment, and machinery 
will drive up demand and of the industry-supported mark. tumbled $1.07 Monday.
is no promise of revival in the orders, all negative. 
prices for oil, the immediate ef­Petroleum Industry Research to $15.31 a barrel for Januaryspring. -Lists of economic indicators fect of its decision was to send Foundation. "For the moment, delivery on the New York"The disappointment is pretty look like a temperature chart prices plunging by more than prices do look to be fundamen­Mercantile Exchange. 
complete," says Richard C. for the North Pole-in Decem­$1 a barrel. tally weak." Energy analysts estimatedKoo, senior economist at No­ber. 
If the lower prices stick, con­Ann-Louise Hittle, director of retail gasoline prices would
mura Research Institute. -Japan's auto exports 
sumers may see cheaper gaso­world oil at Cambridge Energy drop 3.5 to 7 cents a gallon in"Nothing on the horizon sug­plunged 25 percent in October, line and heating oil in the next Research Associates, cautioned the next few weeks. Such a sav­gests an economic recovery or which one industry official at­few weeks, analysts said Mon­that several variables could ings would erase the effects ofrecovery in corporate profits. tributed to a prolonged slump day. Eventually, cheaper oil send the price of oil right back the government's new 4 1/2­There is nothing to look for­in foreign demand and to this prices can reverberate through-up next year. cents-a-gallon gasoline tax. 
ward to." year's rapid appreciation of the On Monday, the Tokyo Stock yen. Market's key index plunged to On the positive side, prices 

Economic indicators all pointing up 
its lowest level this year. After aren't rising. Consumer infla­
hours of panicky trading, the tion is running about 1.4 per­By JOHN D. McCLAIN the National Association of The Federal Home Loan225-issue Nikkei Stock Average cent annually and producer Associated Press Realtors reported Monday. Mortgage Corp. said 30-yearshed 647.66 points, or 3.87 prices are falling. Help wanted WASHINGTON That was up from a 3.94 mil­fixed-rate mortgages averagedpercent. to close at 16,078.71. signs appear on most Tokyo Continued low mortgage rates lion rate in September -6.83 percent in October, downEven worse, analysts said the city blocks, but they are for and an improving economy stronger than the 3.91 million from 6.91 percent a month eardrop was not a reaction to any jobs no one seems to want: helped push the sales of exist­initial estimate -and the high­lier and the lowest on record.
specific event, just the lack of waitressing, clerking. cleaning. 
ing homes to the highest level est since 4.09 million in May The Realtors reported 3.1t
good news. When Prime Minister Mori­in more than 14 years in Octo­1979, the association said. million previously owned hom£ It capped a monthlong hiro Hosokawa took office in ber. Many analysts had expected an sales through the first 1Cdecline of more than 3,600 August, he pledged to wipe out Despite such recent strength increase of only 1 percent. months of 1993, 7 percenpoints -and added to snow­political corruption, promote in housing, however. the na­Sales advanced in every re­above the number sold durin!
balling pessimism over the government efficiency and re­tion's top business economists gion and the Realtors said the same period in 1992. 
prospects for an economic vive the slumping economy, in predict the economy will be home buyers remained active in The government repartee recovery. that order. 
only slightly better in 1994, November. earlier that new home sale5Consider the following: Now he faces mounting pres­although they said that will "Favorable rates. along with shot up 20.8 percent in-In recent weeks, Japanese sure to make the economy his help keep down inflation and improved economic conditions, September to the highest !eve
manufacturers reported sharp number one concern. 
interest rates. are keeping consumers in the in nearly seven years. Man)drops in profits across the "The market's direction de­Sales of previously owned sin­market during a time of the analysts do not expect that pac€board for the half-year that pends on what the government gle-family homes jumped 3.6 year when sales generally start to be sustained in when th£ended in September. is or isn't going to do," says percent, to a seasonally adjust­to taper off," said Realtors October figures are released 01 -Many businesses have an­Kathy Matsui, strategist at ed annual rate of 4.08 million, President Robert H. Elrod. Thursday.
nounced job cuts or cutbacks in Barclays de Zoete Wedd. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
November 29, 1993 


_,-/" r\ .rl~ r 
""rV\  r  
v \­ fJ\"""  
"""  


3750 3700 3650 3600 3550 3500 3450 9/1/93 10/1/93 11/1/93 12/1/93 1/1/94 



AP 


BUSINESS BRIEFS 
ALTON, IL DETROIT Owners of the Alton Belle G~neral Motors Ctirp. ~aid it riverboat casino are loo!Png &:,'Yffi.recall 600,QOQ minivans 
to expand beyond Illinoii) in "' "' and sport utility vehicles with three other states. The qrig-;;, qten~iaJly. defective front inal gaming partners created · ts. 1\t least 28 people have Argosy Gaming Co. after the? beenhurt when the seats col-early success of the Alton''',';i'i' la~se(},J1<'The vehicles at~ venture. Argosy was recent· 1985-:91 Chevrolet Astro, ly approved by the Louisiana in ' GMC $afari minivans; and Riverboat Gaming',: 1989-1990 Chevrolet. 
Commission. <i#f Bristol~Myers Squibb Co. said Monday it has bought world­wide'; rights to market two contrast agents used in diag­nostic tests from the ImaRx Pharmaceutical Corp. of Tucson, Ariz. Terms were not disclosed. The products are LumenHance and SonoRx. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, November 30, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News F.ditor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Managcr..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Managcr...................... Steph Goldman Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Managcr........................ Chcryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director................................ Brcndan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifcr Habrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II docs not necessarily rellect the policies of the adminiscrn­lion ofeither insrirurion. The news i~ repont'd a.s accuratdy and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­wrials rcpre~nt rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spotts Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentarics, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the aU[hors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all re-.1.ders. The fr« expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accem/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advcnising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
On Friday, Nov. 12, there ap­peared on page 7 of The Observer a piece in which was alleged wholesale gender bias on the Teacher Course Evaluations. The Notre Dame student body would stand ac­cused of and indicted for sex­ism -a grave charge. While I am not privy to the statistical "evidence" brought forth to undergird the accusation and indictment rendered by at least one member of the discussion 
are other variables which,
group, I must believe that the along with possible sexism, may deliberations of the group as a have contributed to the prob­whole were more nuanced and lematical results on the TCEs;probing than the what was re­
which may or may not have
ported in The Observer. 
been considered by the discus­Especially troubling is the fi­sion group, but which certainlynal sentence of the column. It did not figure in the coverage of reads: "The only two conclu­the event These would include,sions that could be reached by but not be limited to the follow­
this discussion is that either 
ing:female faculty at Notre Dame 1) Rank by rank comparisons.
are substandard, which is not 
For example, to put the
the case obviously, or that stu­
untenured person (male or fe­
dents are sexually biased when male) on the same professionalrating teacher performance." 
footing as, let us say, a chairedI may be wrong, but I find it 
professor (male or female) is
inconceivable that every 
apt to give an imprecise read­
woman on this faculty was 
ing of the relative success of the rated lower than every man. If less experienced, less-published such is not the case, then all 
and, therefore, more harriedstudents evaluating a woman 
colleague.
faculty member, even those 2) Intra-departmental com­who rated them low, are not 
parisons. Here the questions of
necessarily sexist. Some may 
which courses are taught, and very well be, but this does not 
by whom, would have to he
warrant the general indictment taken into account InstructorsAnd while some students abuse of departmental, collegiate ortheir anonymity when filling out University requirements may bethe TCEs, my sense is that very likely to get lower evaluationsfew do not take the evaluations than their colleagues teachingseriously. 
elective or major courses. DoThe TCEs are, in my experi­younger faculty, among whom ence, generally regarded as an many women, more regularlyoccasion for frank, if not al­teach required courses to stu­ways, correctly targeted or con­
dents who may be less
sidered criticism. What is more, 
enthused about the material
and more to the point, there than they would in their chosen field? 

3) Inter-departmental con­siderations. For example, some­one teaching a writing intensive seminar or a course in engi­nee.ring may be considered more critically than someone teaching a seemingly less de­manding subject in another department. 3a) An instructor may willingly sacrifice some of his or her popularity with stu­dents in order to promote and guarantee higher standards. 
4) Course population. When class size is small, a few or even a single negative evalua­tion, regardless of its appropri­ateness or motivation, can be ruinous to the general statisti­cal profile of the evaluation. 
5) (And here I tread with the greatest caution) Is it not possi­ble that some -I repeat some -women faculty members, for reasons, accurate or other, and running a wide gamut of possi­bilities (e.g., personal, pedagog­ical, political et aL) may indeed elicit, even warrant the kind of unfavorable responses that anyone, male or female, can at times receive on these evalua­tions? And given the dispropor­tionately low representation of women in some departments and, therefore, in the University generally, would the statistical glitch mentioned in my previous point not also obtain here? In other words, would lower scores appear to carry more weight and drama when con­sidered in relation to the larger population? 
Is it not also possible that, in light of the general good will of our students on the TCEs -it­self at least partially attribut­able to the quality of the teach­ing here at Notre Dame-that some women faculty members may in fact be less effective than some men, just as some men are certainly less effective than some women? 
This does not mean, to use the specious term considered, if only an a speculative option, in the "conclusions" tendered by one of the discussants, that those women, or for that mat­ter, those men, earning lower scores ffor whatever reason) are necessarily "substandard." According to that kind of ar­gument, one that wants to see things generically -a term 1 use in all of its acceptations ­Kevin McDougal would be con­sidered "substandard" because he threw for fewer yards than Charlie Ward. 
Equally clear is the fact that every case of a woman earning lower scores on the TCE cannot be attributed to sexism. Once again I may be wrong, but I cannot help but think that such a view would be as fundamen­tally demeaning to the women on the faculty as it is unfair to their male colleagues and to the students, all groups being sub­mitted, inadvertently, I pre­sume, to the kind of essentialist thinking that we want to find so untenable. Moreover, common sense tells us and experience regularly proves that some teachers are simply better at and are more dedicated to their craft than others. 
Common sense and experi­ence also tell us that not every one (male or female) is a sexist, racist or any other "-ist" on the list. What is more, if we were to subscribe to the logic informing the "conclusions" reported in The Observer, we might in turn "conclude" that since males appear to receive relatively higher scores, female students, whose presence at Notre Dame is not statistically insignificant, would have to stand accused either of sexist attitudes against their own women instructors ­which I suppose is in fact possi­ble, but not probable -or of blatant stupidity, choosing to favor their male instructors for no other reason than their maleness. A grim and impossi­bly contrived "conclusion." 
In the end, however, I am less distracted by the hasty, cate­gorical and self-righteous feel of the "conclusions" than I am with the swath cut indiscrimi­nately through the student body in the service of that argumen­tation. 
LOUIS MACKENZIE 
Associate Professor 
Department of Romance Language and 
Literature 

DOONESBURY  
.A5 7HE 1993 JFK (J]N5P!RACY­FE5T W!NCJ5£XW-J, A I£W£ BUFF r<&OitiCI<S HIS PHOTOGRAPHS...  HMM... I fXJN'T R/3Ca3NIU HIM H/:3.~ NaTON£3. OF•TH& 7HR£'& TRAMPS," OR. "7H& lU/0!3CI?N1&5/' OR.''F&IXJRA MAN"OR. "r::o3 BOY~.  

''Beliefin a cruel God makes a cruel man." 
Thomas Paine 

Tuesday, November 30, 1993 page 11

VIEWPOINT 
Disregard to authority and morality a cause for embarrassment 

Dear Editor: 
When we read David Hungeling's inside column titled "Champs? We're not worthy," in Monday, Nov. 15 The Observer, we were embar­rassed to admit that he is a part of our Notre Dame family. Hungeling claimed in his col­umn that the Notre Dame stu­dent body is not worthy of shar­ing the honor of a National Championship with our players. He also went on to put down our University for not going "hog wild after big wins" and not "creating small scale disas­ters after championships." 
Hungeling praised Georgia Tech for setting a goal post on fire after the release of the poll results in 1991, and he even Oh, where to begin. First of with our "Lou" chant. And wecondoned their "endless display all, Hungeling, we think you're guess, you also didn't attendof enthusiasm and school spirit 
way out of line in saying the the lighting of the traditionalin the form of huge parties, 
student body in not worthy of "#l" on top of Grace on Mondayoverconsumption of alcohol and sharing a Championship with night when many studentsdrugs, nakedness and mass for­
our wonderful players. Maybe gathered to congratulate the
nication." 
you weren't around campus the players and coaches and to cel­
Hungeling amazingly even 
week before the Florida State ebrate the great win. This is theclaimed that we at Notre Dame 
game when banners and way Notre Dame celebrates,
are "jealous of schools which posters decorated our dorms, this is what we're known for,lack massive intellectual capac­and the music of the Fighting and we're proud of this tradi­ity, and otherwise aim at un­Irish rang from open windows. tion. You must forgive us forderachievement." He said we Maybe you weren't at the pep not smoking marijuana nakedcould learn a lot from these rally where thousands of fans on the quad. 
such schools "who disregard all (many students) stood behind Since most of us do come to
respect for authority and 
our players and chanted to the this great University to get good 
morality." Finally, David 
music of the Notre Dame Band. grades and future employment
Hungeling informed us that Maybe you weren.'t even at opportunities, and since what
Notre Dame students "place too the game when our screaming attracts most of us to Notrehigh a priority on insignificant fans completely drowned out Dame is its class, moral stand­things like grades and future 
the entire Florida State band ing, and excellent academic
employment opportunities." 

CODOH represents affront to history 
Dear Editor: I applaud Perdiew's point ing the fifty preceding years? Although many readers of the that "anti-Semitism is wrong" Again, I assume that Perdiew CODOH ad (The Observer, Nov. but I find it incomprehensible believes that this ploy was an 
18) realized that it was an that he then writes "it is not honest attempt to get at the appeal on the part of the "revi­anti-Semitism that is being dis­"truth" about the Holocaust. sionists (deniers of the cussed." This statement re­The polemical nature of the Holocaust) to undermine what quires that we look at the language in the ad should have is an accepted fact of history, CODOH ad more closely. tipped off Perdiew. We who apparently Nicholas Perdiew Under the heading "The last teach the Holocaust are cast viewed it as a legitimate call for Barrier" the CODOH ad attacks aside as "The Deborah debate. For those of us who "career-driven professors" Lipstadts -and there is a have taught or taken courses in which I assume means that clique of them on every campus German history or the these individuals are academic -work to suppress revisionist Holocaust, who have visited the charlatans who try to gain pro­research and demand that stu­camp sites, who have studied motions and make money by dents and faculty ape their the reports of camp survivors, publishing untruths about the antidemocratic behavior." I who have read the reports of Holocaust. should first point out that Nazis SS officers and Hitler's Professor Lipstadt is a very re­speeches and writings, the spected historian who should CODOH ad represents an af­'The testimony sur­not be maligned in this crude front to our sense of historical vivors have provid­manner. truth and an attack on our Secondly, I resent the accusa­Jewish friends. ed over the years can­tion that I (your intellectual 
Since Perdiew is apparently not be discounted ... ' fuhrer) am attempting to 
not aware of the often vicious spread lies and am forcing my 
and mindless attacks the students to accept them. Again, 
CODOH has launched repeat­Apparently Perdiew does not I assume that Perdiew did not 
edly on those who believe that understand that this statement know that Deborah Lipstadt is a 
the Holocaust took place and might possibly offend profes­respected historian and he did 
was not able to perceive the sors who devote their research not perceive that the reference 
true intent of the ad, I would efforts at trying to reach the to "intellectual fuhrers" was 
like to provide him some in­truth about the Holocaust. casting doubt on those of us 
formation and insights that will I find it incomprehensible who are in any way involved 
make it possible for him to that Perdiew could believe that with teaching or learning about 
more fully comprehend the we who teach and research the the Holocaust. 
nature of any future entreaty Holocaust are not trying to There are many other aspects 
from the CODOH. reach the truth and that we of the CODOH ad that could be 
Anyone who has any familiar­need the intercession of the . discussed as misleading and 
ity with the CODOH, knows that CODOH in order to make us do mean-spirited towards those of 
the ad did indeed question "the so. us who thought we were 
possibility of gassing" and Under the heading "What are searching for truth and under­
would find Perdiew's comment the Facts," the ad uses the trial standing. 
that "it has not yet been suffi­of John Demjanjuk to discount It is also necessary to point 
ciently proven." to be a denial all testimony provided by camp out that the Bradley R. Smith 
in itself. Is this a statement of inmates. Again, this is a clever who presumably wrote the 
someone who wishes to have an but unscholarly way to attack CODOH ad is not the well­
open debate on the subject? the memories of all those who known, and much-published 
This comment is either the suffered in but survived the historian of Germany and the 
result of ignorance of what took camps. Nazi period Bradley F. Smith. 
place at Auschwitz-Birkenau, The testimony survivors have 
Treblinka, Chelmno, Sobibor, provided over the years cannot ROBERTWEGS 
Maidanek and Belzec (I assume be discounted because in one Professor 
Perdiew would fall into this cat­instance camp survivors were Department of History 
egory) or of someone who is a unable to identify "beyond a 
denier of the Holocaust. reasonable doubt" a camp 
The latter has been a position guard after a period of about taken by the CODOH in the face fifty years. Does this example of overwhelmingly evidence to disprove the thousands of sur­the contrary. vivors accounts collected dur­
record, it shouldn't surprise you that we are able to control our excitement and go on with our lives maturely, even if that does involve, God forbid, doing our homework. It is this devo­tion to academics as well as athletics which makes Notre Dame so special. 
Most importantly, it is the ex­act out-of-control behavior you praise that caused the death of a Notre Dame freshmen on Friday night. We weren't party­ing hard enough, huh? Did you ever stop to think that maybe one of the reasons we were all back to our "normal routines" was because we had a bit of re­spect for the family and friends of this member of the Notre 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to a recent anonymous letter (The Observer, Nov. 17). The writer's tone was reasonable, generous, and deserving of respect. However, our response should not be to accept every thought articulated. Several ideas need to be addressed. 
First, there is no virtue in having "come to [our] own con­clusions after having educated [ourselves] about the topic" of homosexuality if our conclu­sions are wrong. Our goal should be to discover the moral law, a law which is the same for one person as the next. The writer is correct that we need to know "the whole truth." But not every source of information is valuable for finding it. 
The various reports, studies and interpretations of Scripture mentioned are interesting, and we should consider them; but thankfully God has given us a surer source. If we truly want to know the moral law, we should turn to the Church, for the Church is infallible in doc­trines concerning morality. If teh writer is correct that the church has "reversed its posi­tion" before, it must have been on a controversy of fact, for the church has never changed and 
Dame family who lost her life because someone went "hog wild" with school spirit. 
Sure, we know how to cele­brate a win, but we also know that some things are more im­portant than football, life for example. After this great tragedy, you have some nerve to condone a disregard to au­thority and morality. It is be­cause of people like you who believe big wins only equal big parties, that tragedies like this happen. Wasn't this disaster enough for you? 
So, if you're so jealous of schools such as Georgia Tech, whose students act more like animals, then maybe you're in the wrong place. If you expect this kind of behavior from Notre Dame students, you've got a serious awakening in your future here. Maybe you should transfer to some other school where this kind of disrespect is encouraged, and where you would fit in better ignoring your scholastic and moral obli­gations. The challenge is yours, we know you can do it. 
We know that your article was meant to be entirely sar­castic, but in light of what hap­pened this weekend, we hardly find it funny! 
DANIELL£ FRESCH RACHEL STEHLE Sophomores Siegfried Hall 

cannot ever change doctrines concerning morality. 
People should not be "resolved to do everything in their power to accept every aspect of themselves." It is our duty to conform ourselves to the moral law. When our desires are not in accordance with it, we must change, or at least refrain from acting on, those desires. Of course, people with homosexual tendencies should not be "manipulated into hating themselves and internalizing society's homo­phobia." But changing our ideas about moral law is not the solution. Accepting oneself is a fine thing, but should come from a realization of the love God has for us and the redemp­tion Christ bought for us. Dignity cannot be had by deny­ing that human nature is fallen and by trying to accept "every aspect" of ourselves. 
I know people who have homosexual tendencies. I wish for their sake that their lives were easier. Conforming to the moral law is harder for them in this respect, but no less neces­sary. Fortunately, God offers grace in abundance. 
PETER BANCROFT 
Graduate Student in Law 
Off-Campus 


ACCENT 
Tuesday, November 30, 1993
page 12 
Saint Mary's students explore politics in Oval Office 
By SANDRA JIROUS Accent Wri<<r 
F
or more than fifteen years, Political Science majors at Saint Mary's have been given the chance to take their classroom experi­ences one step farther by com­bining classroom knowledge with real life experience in the political arena. 
Every spring, junior Political Science majors participate in the American University Washington Semester. Students participate in class­room-like seminars while work­ing in Washington, D.C. 
The students must apply dur­ing their junior year, usually by fall break. The students are notified of their acceptance in November. 
To be accepted into the pro­gram, students must fulfill course and grade requirements and must be Political Science majors or minors. Participants must also prepare a research 
'What was really fun 
was watching the new administration move in.' 
Jacque Buckley 
project to execute while in Washington, which will become their senior thesis. Upon return to campus, students work with a faculty advisor to revise their projects. 
Each student works in an area of concentration and looks for an internship in that area. Jobs range from working in a congressional office to assisting in a lobbying firm to the White House. 
ile in Washington, 
tudents stay at the American University, two blocks off the main cam­pus. They work two to three 
days a week and spend the rest of their time in seminars and around the capitol. 
Dr. Patrick Pierce, director of the program at Saint Mary's, holds high goals for the stu­dents who participate in the program. 
"The program is really relat­ed to the goals for major requirements for the students. They combine rigorous acade­mic training in political science with experience in politics," said Pierce. "The Washington Program offers an excellent op­portunity for them to combine experience with what they learn before and after the pro­gram." 
Senior Jacque Buckley is one of the students that participated in the program last year. With a concentration in American Government, Buckley interned at the Office of Media Affairs at the White House. As an intern, she performed duties that ranged from answering tele­phones to entering data into a computer to setting up inter­views. Buckley said that she enjoyed her time at the White House, especially watching the new administration move in. 
"President Clinton would have high school kids from Arkansas come visit and afterward we would set up radio interviews for them," Buckley explained. "What was really fun was help­ing the new administration move into their offices." 
Buckley remembers times when her supervisor would take the interns out to the South Lawn to watch Clinton give a television address, or to the Oval Office to listen to the weekly radio address. 
"We didn't do a lot of impor­tant projects down there, but we got involved and had a lot of fun," she added. 
T
his spring, Saint Mary's will be sending four juniors to Washington: Katie Moreland, Marjean Perhot, Maggie McDonald, and Taylor Markow. 
Moreland, who is secretary­treasurer of the Political Science Club, hopes to find an internship with the American Association of Retired People, or a similar organization with the intention of working with health care reform. 
"My main goal is to get to know the American political system better when I'm there," said Moreland. "My area of concentration is American Politics, so I'll be dealing with the political system." 
Moreland plans on entering law school after graduation, with a possible career as a politician or lobbyist. 

Taylor Markow's area of con­centration is Justice, and she will be researching the Supreme Court nomination process. "I will be looking at the major actors and why the scene 
has  changed,"  explained  
Markow.  
She hopes  to  work for  a  

senator in the future, starting there and WQrking her way up to be a top aid and research assistant. Markow prefers to stay "behind the scenes."." 
' I want to be in an atmosphere that is going to generate knowl­edge of what really hap­pens down there.' 
Taylor Markow 
"I hope to get contacts in case I do get a future job in Washington," said Markow. "I want to be in an atmosphere that is going to generate knowl­edge of what really happens down there." 
Markow's seminars will deal with the courts and will mainly take place at the Federal Bureau of Investigation's head­quarters. She will spend most of her time in the criminology centers there. 
This year, the program runs from January 5 to May 4. The participating students prepare for the program by mapping out their senior comprehensive proposals, which are outlines of what they hope to research and 
accomplish  while  in  
Washington.  
The students and faculty  are  

overall happy with the program and expect it to thrive in the fu­ture. As Buckley put it, "It's definitely a worthwhile pro­gram." 
Mixing it up with the Blenders 
By AMY BACEVICH split into two rival a cappella the country. Heidi Deckelmann, entertain­
CONCERT 

Acccm Wri<cr groups; Dunkirk and Rust were Last year, they were honored ment chairperson for SAB. part of Total Eclipse, and as the Campus Entertainers of "When the Student Activities 
The concert tickets cost $5 for Using only their voices, The Kasper and Lance sang with the Year. Their popularity Board received a budget 
students and may be purchased ar 
Blenders will be entertaining the original Blenders. keeps them in high demand on increase last year, we decided the Saint Mary's box office. Theand impressing the South Bend Eventually, the four joined college campuses. According to that this might be something Blenders concert begins ar 7:30
area on Tuesday night. forces and found that the com­Marlene Johnson, Assistant students would be interested The Blenders, made up of bination made for success. Director of Student Activities, in." Many students are looking 
p.m.in the Little Theater on the members Paul Dunkirk, Tim The Blenders' repertoire in­SAB booked the show last year forward to the concert. "After I 
Saint Mary's campus. Kasper, Ryan Lance, and cludes a variety of music, and this November was the first heard about The Blenders from Darren Rust, sing a cappella; everything from doo-wop to available date. a friend and read about them man Amy Brabeck. 
that is, they use no instruments, pop, jazz, and country. Their The Student Activities Board on the SAB flyer, I decided I'd "Student Activities Board will only their voices, to create the first album, titled "Totally has "never had the money to like to attend the concert to see be offering coupons to provide sound of a full band. Whipped," includes remakes of bring anyone on the college cir­if they were as good as I a student discount on the 
The four hail from Fargo, several of their own original cuit on campus before," says thought they'd be," says fresh-show," said Deckelmann. songs on the album; one of the more popular is the humorous "Accidental Lovers," which was
'when the Student 
written about two people who
Activities Board 
meet when she hospitalizes him received a budget by rear-ending his Yugo with her pick-up truck. 
increase last year, we 
Having only recently decided decided that this might to go professional, The Blenders have since been very
be something that stu­
busy. They received much pub­dents would be interest­licity and gained popularity because of their appearance on
ed in.' 
"Arsenio Hall Show" in 1992.
Heidi Deckelmann 
The group toured as Bobby 
Vee's opening act and audi­North Dakota and have back­tioned for Robert De Niro's grounds in music, theater, and "Bronx Tale." In addition, they dance. Formerly, they were give frequent concerts at events 
and on college campuses across 

page 13 

By DAVID BEARD Associated Press 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico 
In pairs, Cuban athletes evad­ed their security guards and informers to defect during regional championships. They sneaked out from the pool, from the playing field or from their beds. 
Waiting outside INS offices to make their formal appeals for political asylum, eight athletes said Monday they had each plotted with a best friend, sometimes months in advance, to escape return to their Com­munist homeland. 
They didn't tell their families. One championship weightlifter, 23-year-old Emilio Lara, said he didn't even tip off big broth­er Pablo Lara, a world record­holding weightlifter, who had also been among the 900-some Cubans here for the competi­tion. 
"You can't trust anybody," Emilio Lara said, munching on potato chips from a vending machine. "We took the chance at night, and left." 
The Cubans have been melt­
ing away from the Central 
American and Caribbean 
Games in record numbers. 
Thirty-nine Cuban athletes and 
officials had departed as of 
midday Monday, including top 
basketball player Andres Gib­
ert; 27 had formally applied for 
political asylum by the end of 
the day, the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service re­ported. 
Exiles and INS officials expect the total to climb before the competition ends late Tuesday. A leader of the small Movement 21 exile group, Guillermo Toledo, said he has received several telephone death threats since he started helping the athletes leave. 
"The exiles won gold medals without competing in the games," particularly "the gold medal of freedom," Toledo told an afternoon news conference, alluding to the prizes won by the defectors, several of whom were in attendance. 
Cuban exiles call the defec­tions an embarrassment to President Fidel Castro, and say the escapes are spurred on by political repression and Cuba's downward spiraling economy. The defectors agree, but add that their decision took in a combination of circumstances, including being in a Spanish­speaking U.S. territory and a generous American immigra­tion law. 
A 1966 act of Congress grants residency to nearly every Cuban who makes it here, a status not given to any other nationality. Despite protests from others fleeing political persecution, including Haitians, there has been no attempt to change the law. 
"If we were in some place like 
Oklahoma, I would not have 
gone," said roller skater Dany G&rcia, 18, who left with a teammate after competing Fri­day night in the southern town of Salinas. 
Antonio Perez, who with fel­low water polo player Norge Blay took off after a water polo match Friday night in nearby Ponce, said the two had been planning their escape since first broaching the subject months ago while walking on a Havana street. 
"If he didn't make it, I wasn't going. And vice versa. It was all or nothing," said the 6-foot-3 Perez, dressed in a new white polo shirt and jeans. 
The 19-year-old said there was no future for Cuba's youth. 
"I want to work, to study, and to have what's mine," Perez said. 
Field hockey star Yamilet Amaro, 22, was beaming as she left INS offices arm-in-arm with her uncle, Tony Suarez, who fled Cuba for Miami in 1980. She was still wearing the red­white-and-blue team sweats she had on when she and a teammate left the field Saturday morning to leave with relatives. 
"I believe that the other Cubans at the villa-feel the same way," Amaro said. 
For Marcos Hernandez, a 43­ye ar-old Communist Party member and sports editor for Cuba's official Prensa Latina news agency, the decision to leave meant a rejection of ide­als he had defended. 
What to get Mom and Dad for Christmas... How about a subscription to The Observer. 
Ca/1631-7471 for more information. 
The Observer acceprs classifteds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
STILL LOOKING FOR MALE &  Woodbridge condo for sale, near  Adoption: the placement of your  21212121212121212121212121  
L--_N__O_T_IC_E_S__~I  ~'__w,__~_N_T_E_D____.  FEMALE MODELS TO PUT ON POSTERS & CALENDARS. FOR INFO., PLEASE CALL 271-1371.  Notre Dame, ideal for student. Owner financing available $42,500. SMITH ZEISZ CO. 272-5444. Kevin  child may be the most precious gift you could make. NO alum wants to be mom through your gift.  Guess what world? Today is Elisa  
Typing  Travel Abroad and Work. Make up  Zeisz.  Professional couple, country home,  K. Klosterman's 21st birthday.  
287-4082  to $2000-$4000+/mo. teaching  BEACH Springbreak Promoter.  with lots of love and faith. Strictly  
basic conversational English  Small or large groups. FREE trips  BAHAMA-CRUISE  legal. Call Tricia and Jim  
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.  and CASH. Call CMI1-800-423­ 5 Days 4 niles $288/couple  1-800-820-1139.  We thought the day would never  
Korea. Many employers provide  5264.  Underbooked 10-9 Mon-Fri  come, but it's here ...  
Bulletin for Invitational Interviews  room & board + other benefits. No  10-5 Sat 407-648-4480 ext. 607  
January 24 -February 4  teaching background or Asian lan­ Riders Needed to Quad Cities,  Quality Copies, Quickly  To get things started how about the  
guages required. For more informa­ Iowa Univ, Des Moines, or ISU  MOVING SALE. 272-8680.  THE COPY SHOP  top 1 0 reasons to wish Elisa a  
Submit resumes in Career and  tion call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584  1213. Rudy *2163  '87 Dodge Omni, $2,495.  LaFortune Student Center  happy, happy birthday:  
Placement Services by Dec. 8.  Stereo, Tape Player, Computer,  631-COPY  
Seeking female, non-smoking room­ Need a Ride to Philly/Central NJ for  Printer, 2 Bicycles, Camera Body,  10. She's lives in the LA fast lane.  
Coming Soon ... the Alumni Assoc.  mate for sprg sem. Grad/law stu­ X-mas on Fri. 17!! Call Meg at  power grip, lenses, & flash.  ADOPTION: NO grad and wife, hap­ 9. She's got big green eyes.  
& Senior Class bring you ...  dent or young faculty/staff. H289­ x2773.  pily married for eight years, wish to  8. According to her resume, she has  
"The Great Taste of South Bend"  5989, W1-7421.  SPRING BREAK! Sunchase Tours  TICKETS  adopt a baby. We offer a warm, lov­ing home with kindness and  strong oral skills. 7. She has eaten at McDonald's all  
Saturday, December 4, 1993  GREEKS & CLUBS  is seeking ambitious sales reps to  patience from a full-time mom and  around the world.  
7:30 PM Senior Bar  promote Spring Break '941 Earn  Notre Dame Bowl Tickets  devoted dad. Please call Wendy  6. She wears body suits.  
Tickets include food and D.J.  RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST  cash and free trips. Call today:  For Sale  and Tim at 1-800-440-8588 anytime  5. Elisa is way cool.  
$6 ea. $10 couple  ONE WEEK! For your fraternity,  1-800-SUNCHASE.  (317) 879-8497  4. She has seen Leslie Nielsen's big  
Look for tickets & details at LaF  sorority or club. Plus $1,000 for  Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on  gun.  
Info. Desk. Must be 21 to partici­ yourself! And a FREET-SHIRT just  Luxury Yachts Seven day Island  3. She has two pictures in today's  
pate. Benefits South Bend Center for the Homeless.  for calling. 1-800-932-0528, ext. 75.  L--_F_O_R_RE_N_T_ __.I  I PERSONAL  Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin & Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6.  paper. 2. She won $19,000 on Teen  
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and  Furnished House: jan-dec 1994. 3  1/800-999-SAIL  Scrabble. (I'm miffed Chuck. I'll  
find out how hundreds of students  bed, 11/2 bath. 409 Peashway st.  HAVE FAITH-WILL DEFEND  (7245)  have to take another tile.)  
DAY OF RECOLLECTION FOR PRO-LIFE STUDENTS WITH CAR­ are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's  walk to NO. Wash/dryr, dishwashr, :! car garage, 600/mo + util. Show  LAY APOLOGIST/EVANGELIST  SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS  1. She's probably already told you it's her birthday and you'd feel like  
DINAL O'CONNOR -check your  #1 Spring Break company! Choose  by appt. 233-6523.  WILL DEFEND THE CATHOUC  a big clod if you didn't wish her  
hall mail for information and regis­ Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica,  FAITH AGAINST ANYONE -STU­ Bulletin for Invitational Interviews  happy birthday.  
tration form  Panama, Daytona or Padre! CALL  FURNISHED 8 BEDROOM HOME  DENT OR FACULTY. DEBATE  January 24 -February 4  
NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT  1 MILE NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  FORMAT ACCEPTABLE.  21212121212121212121212121  
ILOST & FOUND I  TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ (219) 272-9350. MARCH FOR LIFE  Submit resumes in Career and Placement Services by bee. 8.  Elisa is 21! Elisa is 21! Elisa is 21!  
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  ND/SMC EVENTS  FRIDAY, January 21  Please don't forget your friends in  21212121212121212121212121  
EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE  (219) 291-7153  DC TRIP  lnnsbruck. We like mail!  
I WOULD GIVE MY RIGHT ARM  WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN,  If interested call ND Right to Life  Bridget Biggs, Jacob Bump, Chris  If you know Elisa and would like to  
TO ANYONE WHO FOUND MY  EUROPE. HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE  ROOMMATE NEEDED  631-9006  Carrigan, Amy Cooper, Chris  help make her day extra special...  
NOTRE DAME WATCH WITHIN  LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  Spr. Sem.  Demoraes, Michelle Dire, Lisa  Join her at the only bar in South  
THE LAST THREE WEEKS. It is  HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER  Trtle Crk Twnhs  SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS  Drury, Elizabeth Harnisch, Joy  Bend she can't get into ....  
gold with black leather bands, and  SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE!  271-1399  Hechimovich, Anne Jansen, Brad  THE BACKER ...  
has the interlocking NO in the mid­ CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31  Bulletin for Invitational Interviews  Joseph, Kacy Kilner, Kim Massman,  
dle. Call Jim x3584  Lodging -Riverfront -Private  January 24 -February 4  Simon Mclain, Amy Montgomery,  
GREAT TEACHERS WANTED!!!II!  257-9101  Krista Nannery, Andrew Rathweg,  Come tonight and party with  
Lost a gold and pearl pin  Which of the following best  Submit resumes in Career and  Tom Reck, Monica Scales,  KLOSTERWOMAN ...  
Between the Football Stadium and  describes  2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES  Placement Services by Dec. 8.  Jonathan Schrader, Barbara  
LaFor1une via O'Shag and  you?  NEAR NO  VanDersarl, & DeeDee Vosswinkel.  21212121212121212121212121  
Neuwland Science.  1. Dynamic communicator  AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR  HEY PETE!!! HAVE YOU SEEN  lnnrain 33  
2. Extremely sharp  232-2595  LARRY???  A-6020 lnnsbruck  Did you know that Elisa is finally  
If found. please call 631-5243. Lost-Silver Eddie Bauer Swiss  3. Superb at standardized tests (SAT, ACT, GRE, GMAT, MCAT)  FOR SALE  Top 5 reasons to call Counseline at 631-7793  Tirol, Austria EUROPE  21?????????????????????? Happy Birthday Elisa, love me  - 
Army watch with leather band  4. Witty and clever undergrad or  5. No dress code required.  Get your Christmas shopping  
Lost on Saturday at game or  grad student  4.You'll always hear a friendly  done early-take the  
potato house. If found call  5. Interested in a fun, great paying  OVER 2,500 MOSTLY CAN­ voice.  WINDY CITY SHUTTLE  
Andy at x1891 for reward  part time job for spring semester  CELLED STAMPS FROM  3. Looking for commitment? call us  to Chicago this  
AROUND THE WORLD. GREAT  M-Th 4-12pm-we'll be there!  Saturday, Dec. 4 for only $10.  HAPPY 21st BI,RTHDAY, AL!  
LOST: Silver chain with round ball  If you choose all of the above,  FOR STARTER COLLECTION.  2. You can do it with no questions  Tickets and information available  
locket that holds six photos.  please call Stacy Cody  X4098  asked.  at the LaFortune Information Desk  
Extreme sentimental value. If  KAPLAN TEST PREP in South  1. It's FREE (1 of the few things on  631-8128.  
found, please call273-5251.  Bend, (219) 272-4135.  campus that is!)  

~----~------------~--------~~--~------------------------~----------------------------·---------------------------------~-------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 30, 1993 
------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------~----­
San Francisco's defense is limping after the weekend 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA. Calif. 
Offensively, the San Francisco 49ers are on a roll, averaging 38 points during a five-game winning streak. Defensively, they're limping. 
The 49ers (8-3) learned Monday they could be without Kevin Fagan, their best run de­fender, for the rest of the sea­son. 
Fagan, a seventh-year de­fensive end who already has had operations on both his knees, sustained a severe left knee sprain early in the second quarter of the 49ers' 35-10 vic­tory Sunday over the Los Ange­les Rams. He faced arthro­scopic surgery Monday night for the latest injury. 
"He was our anchor up front," strong safety Tim Mc­Donald said. "He was the kind of guy you could count on, when he was out there, to make plays. He made things happen at the line of scrim­mage. We're going to miss that. Somebody is going to have to step up." 
The injury to Fagan was the latest to hit the defensive line. Ted Washington (shoulder) and Larry Roberts (knee) are ex­pected to miss their second consecutive game next Sunday night when the 49ers play Cincinnati (1-10). Martin Harri­son, a pass-rush specialist, strained his groin during the Rams game and also could miss the Bengals' game. 
Coach George Seifert said because of the injuries, the 49ers will switch their base de­fense from a 4-3 to a three-man front plus a pass-rushing "elephant" linebacker at least until Washington is able to re­turn. 
"Right now, that's what we're kind of down to," Seifert said. 
San Francisco began the season with a 3-4 alignment but switched to the 4-3 six weeks ago to try to solidify the run defense and increase inside pressure on pass-rushing downs. 
In the 3-4 alignment, Dennis Brown will remain at end, rookie Dana Stubblefield will move back to nose tackle from defensive tackle and rookies Artie Smith and Troy Wilson will come ofT the bench to fill in at end and pass-rushing line­backer, respectively. 
Stubblefield said he didn't think a second mid-season switch in the base defense would cause any problems. 
"Each week we have changes, depending on the type of offense we're facing. It's just another change that we have to make," Stubblefield said. 
End-linebacker Todd Kelly, a first-round pick who got ofT to a disappointing start, also may see more playing time after picking up his first career sack in the Rams game. 
Seifert, meanwhile, down­played the possibility of looking outside the organization for defensive line help. 
"We feel pretty good about our young players," he said. "And at this late stage, gener­ally the players that are out there are the ones that have not played for a long time, whereas our players have been here with us and working. 

-
Free Delivery • 271~1177 

Bengals take on 49ers coming offwin 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI 
For 12 weeks, the Cincinnati Bengals couldn't figure out how to win. Now that they have ­with a lot of help from the Los Angeles Raiders -they have to figure out how to act like win­ners. 
This new experience could be just as tough. The Bengals (1­
10) fly to San Francisco to play the 49ers next Sunday night, and a drubbing on national television could make that long­awaited victory seem like even more of a fluke. 
No wonder there's little cele­brating in Cincinnati. 
"We've won a game, but it's just one game," offensive line­man Bruce Kozerski said. "Now we've got to go to the West Coast and play the 49ers. That's not an easy task. 
"It will be interesting to see how we respond to winning. We've seen how we respond after a loss-we've had a lot of practice at that." 
They've generally responded to losing by going out and play-
jy'j r-' rJf/ r-' 'j rJ
J ~:.) --~1:.) 
INTER-CITY CATHOLIC LEAGUE 
VOLUNTEER TO HELP COACH 
4TH. 8TH GRADES 
(ALL 631-8563 

ing just sloppy enough to lose again. The NFL's least-experi­enced roster kept losing games in the second half, getting outscored 110 to 41. 
They played a typical Bengals game Sunday -only 157 yards passing, a leading rusher who gained just 53 yards, a defense that let the Raiders average 5.1 yards per rush. But they finally avoided their self-destructive tendencies -no turnovers, no bonehead plays -against a team that played its worst game of the season. 
While the Bengals played mediocre but flawless football, the Raiders missed four field goals, dropped a lot of passes and set up Cincinnati's touch­down with a penalty. 
Unimpressive, but a win. 

"It really felt good for the first time to see things go our way," cornerback Mike Brim said. 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for the following General Board position: 

iewpoint Edito 
Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduate or graduate student is encouraged to apply. 
The editor is responsible for the contents ofthe Viewpoint section, from letters to columns to cartoons. Applicants should have good management and interpersonal skills. To apply, submit a personal statement and resume to David Kinney by Monday, December 6, 1993. Call David Kinney at 631-4542o Rolando de Aguiar at 631-4 541 with questions about the position or the application. 
SENIORS 
HAVE YOU EVER THOUGHT ABOUT PRIESTHOOD AND THE RELIGIOUS LIFE? Consider 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one year program for college graduates who seek to explore an interest in priesthood and religious life in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
Come to an information session on: 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1993 7 P.M. FLANNER HALL CHAPEL 
Notre Dame graduates and others who are Holy Cross Candidates this year will share their reflections and experience. 
Plus: information about applications, scholarship assistance, etc. 
Vocation Office 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C. 
631-6385 

Tuesday, November 30, 1993 The Observer • VOLLEYBALL page 15 
Brown back from maternity leave 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Joyce Center, the No. 17 Notre Assistant Sports Editor Dame volleyball team will look for inspiration in the person of 
When hosting the first NCAA head coach Debbie Brown, who tournament game in school his­will be on the Irish sidelines for tory on Sunday at 2 p.m. in the the first time in three weeks. 
Last Wednesday, Brown gave birth to a 6 pound, 2 ounce baby boy. The child, named Connor Calvin, is the first child of Brown and her husband Dennis, who works in the uni­versity's public relations de­

partment. 
Brown, although overseeing practice, has been unable to travel with the team to its last two tournaments. She hopes to make her return to the bench in the biggest match Notre Dame has played this season. 
"Right now I'm taking it one day at a time," stated Brown, who has guided the Irish to a 25-7 record this season. Be­cause of her efforts. she was named MCC coach of the year for the third straight year. 
The Irish earned the fourth seed in the Mideast Region and will have a bye in the first round, played this Wednesday at various sights across the country. Sunday, Notre Dame will host the winner of the Ne­braska (24-5) and Cornell (17­
9) to be played in Lincoln. 
Ranked No. 8 in the country, the Huskers received an at­large bid to the tournament and are the heavy favorites to visit South Bend. The Irish defeated the Huskers earlier in the sea­son in a closely contested four game match 15-8, 15-7, 3-15, 15-10 in what might have been the best volleyball the team has
Head Coach Debbie Brown has returned to her coaching duties, as shown here earlier this season, after giving birth to her son Connor. played all season. 
"Nebraska is a tough draw, 

IrishVolleyball drops two in Bankers Classic 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
Stockton, Calif. Somehow the Notre Dame ,WQ~n·s volleyball team will 
~-~ find a positive in the two losses they suf­fered at t h e Bankers Classic at t h e University of Pacific over the CHRISTY PETERS weekend. 0 n e plus could be the play of junior outside hitter Christy Peters who was an all-tournament selection, joining players from No. 1 UCLA, No. 4 BYU, and No. 11 UOP. Another could be the possible return of head coach Debbie Brown who did not travel with the team as she had a son on Wednesday, but may be on the sidelines when the No. 17 Irish begin NCAA tournament play Sunday. But the most promising note could be the glimpses of poten­tial Notre Dame showed at various times during the week­end against top-flight competi­tors BYU and UOP. "We played very hard in both matches," said intern head coach Steve Schlick. "Win or lose it is good to play against this competition." The Irish opened against host Pacific and despite dropping the match 17-5, 15-13, 15-7 were in the match until the end and found offensive success against the much taller, explo­sive Tigers. "They have great strength at the net," said Peters, who led the Irish with 23 kills. "We had some trouble with their front row, but we had excellent com­munication and we fought hard." 

The Irish fell behind 12-8 but unforced errors by the Tigers and key hits by Peters and mid­dle blocker Molly Stark gave Notre Dame a 14-13 lead. UOP knotted the score, and after repeated sideouts took the lead on an error by Notre Dame's Jenny Birkner. 
The Irish tied it again at 15­15 but UOP got kills from Do­minica Benton-Bozeman and Natasha Soltysik to take the match. 
"We weren't able to stop them offensively and that made the difference," said 
Schlick. "The first two games we played them tough, and we gave them some difficulty set­ting their hitters which we had hoped to do." 
A different Irish teamed showed on Sunday for the con­solation match. The Cougars disposed of Notre Dame in just over an hour, 15-5, 15-6, 15­11. 
The Irish hit a paultry .114 for the match and made 23 er­rors. 
"BYU is pretty diversified and that gave us some problems," said Schlick. 
The Irish jumped out to a 5-0 lead in the third game, but the Cougars came back behind strong outside hitting and an assortment of errors by the Irish offense. 
"Notre Dame is a fine team, 
but they had some problems 
with their passing," said BYU 
head coach Elaine Michaelis. 
"We knew they had to serve 
tough to stay with us, but we 
were able to control their 
serve." 
The two losses dropped the 
Irish to 25-7 on the season. 
They have a week off to pre­
pare for the NCAA's where they 
will face either Cornell or 
eighth-ranked Nebraska at the 
Joyce ACC. 
"If we play like we did 
against UOP then we feel we 
can beat any team in the coun­
try on a given night," said 
Peters. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Must have knowledge ofMacintosh computers and their applications. Please turn your resumes in to the Observer office by December 10. Contact Patrick Barth at 631-5303 for more information. 

Happy 21st Birthday 

Love, Mom, 'Dad, Matt & Mikf, 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, November 30, 1993 
St. Louis optimistic about NFL expansion team 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Pr•ss 
ROSEMONT, Ill. 
After all these years of wait­ing, the favorites to get the sec­ond NFL expansion franchise Tuesday may be the Johnny­come-latelies. 
St. Louis' Gateway Football Partnership, hastily assembled the day before the league awarded the first franchise to Charlotte, N.C. on Oct. 26, is 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
down four rebounds in 18 min­utes. 
Notre Dame's 10 point half­time lead grew to 17 before Valparaiso put together a 15-4 run to move within six at 57­51. 
That's when Williams took over, scoring 10 points in the next six minutes as Notre Dame expanded its lead to 15. 
"I was proud of my team in the second half because they really battled back, there was a time when we rattled off some­thing like 11 points in a row," Drew said. "But Monty hit a three, then came back with an easy two and that really broke us." 
Valparaiso's Casey Schmidt and Hob Cavanaugh tried to keep the Crusaders in the game in the second half. 
Schmidt hit four of five 3­
Hockey 
conrinued from page 20 
struck first on a goal from Brian McCarthy 7:20 into the second period. The Lakers tied it at the 10:46 mark of the third, and it went into over­time. Lake State's Dan Angelli ended it just 3:54 into the over­time period. 
"We're playing with a lot of confidence, we played them tough," said Ling. "It shows a lot, but it also shows we can still go farther. 
considered the front-runner when the NFL owners meet for E-Day, Take Two, at a subur­ban Chicago hotel. 
The city has the nation's 18th television market -the biggest without a team -and a domed stadium under con­struction. Plus, there's the threat that New England owner James Busch Orthwein would move the Patriots to St. Louis if denied an expansion team. 
"Other people are talking about stadiums," said Stan Kroenke, head of the St. Louis group. "We're building ours. St. Louis has got to be extremely attractive to the league." 

The group also is close to adding Walter Payton, the NFL's career leading rusher. Chicago Bears owner Mike Mc­Caskey said he would cast his vote for his former player. 
Coming up fast from a standing start is the third Bal­timore ownership group headed by AI Lerner, a minority owner of the Cleveland Browns. T h e other four entries are Jacksonville, Memphis and the other two groups from Balti­more. 
But the two other Balti­more groups, headed by Leonard "Boogie" Weinglass and Malcolm Glazer. were spurned by their own city's expansion committee. Gov. William Donald Schaefer quick­ly threw his support to Lerner. 
"I think if we had stayed pat, we would have been out altogether," Schaefer said. 
Baltimore likely needed one because of its proximity to both Washington and Philadelphia. Also, the league already voted in one East Coast team when it picked Charlotte and had indi­cated it wanted the two new teams to present a balanced ticket. 
point attempts and finished with a team-high 27 points. Cavanaugh connected on just six of 16 shots from the field, but he was true on eight of 10 free throws to collect 22 points. 
Irish freshman point guard Admore White made quite an impact in the first regular sea­son of his career, scoring 10 points and dishing out 11 as­sists. 
"This was a very good begin­ning game for us," MacLeod said. "We played with great in­tensity defensively and we were able to get a lead and hang on for the victory." 
Notre Dame travels to Boston College Sunday before return­ing home Saturday against San Diego. 

VALPARAISO (74): Redmon 2-8 2-4 6, Schmidt 9-14 5-6 27. Beesley 0-3 1·2 1, Barker 1·7 0·1 2. Cavanaugh 6·16 8·10 22. Charles 2·2 4-4 B. Markworth 0·1 0-0 o. Ensminger 1·2 H 3, Sykes 2-71·1 5. TOTALS: 23-60 22-29 74. 
NOTRE DAME (95): M. Williams 17-24 6·8 42. Taylor 0-2 0-0 0. Joe Ross 1-2 1-2 3. Hoover 8-11 4-5 26. White 3-9 4·4 10. J. Williams 3·4 0-1 7. Gotsch 0-4 0-0 0, Cozen 1·5 0-2 2. Miller 1-1 0-0 3. Hughes 1·1 0·0 2, Jon Ross 0-0 0·0 0. TOTALS: 35·63 15·22 95. 
3-polnt goals (Included In totals above): Valparaiso 6 (Schmidt 4. Cavanaugh 2). Notre Dame 10 (Hoover 6. M. Williams 2. J. Williams. Miller); Total fouls (fouled out): Valparaiso 20 (Charles). Notre Dame 23 (none); Rebounds: Valparaiso 34 (Schmidt 7). Notre Dame 39 (M. Williams 10); Assists: Valparaiso 8 (Schmidt 2. Beesley 2. Cavanaugh 2). Notre Dame 20 (White 11); Turnovers: Valparaiso 17 (Schmidt 5), Notre Dame 18 (White 6); Halftime score: Notre Dame 
46. Valparaiso 36. Attendance: B. 651. 
IT'S ABOUT TIME! 
Elisa, the hot 
L.A. woman is finally 21. 
,, -PARTYON­
Love-Marten & the PWGang 


JN THE NOTRE DAME REISMAN SIGNATURE FOOTBALL 
IDJIE Dill 

• PERSONALLY AUTOGRAPHED BY NOTRE DAME HEISMAN WINNERS: 
ANGELO BERTELLI'43, JOHN LUJACK '47, LEON HART '49, JOHN LATTNER '53, PAUL HORNUNG '56, JOHN HUARTE '64, TIM BROWN '87 • LIMITED EDITION • VALUABLE SPORTS COLLECTIBLE • OFFICIALLY LICENSED BY NOTRE DAME AND THE DOWNTOWN ATHLETIC CLUB • PART OF THE HEISMAN SIGNATURE COLLECTION 
Notre Dame. The Heisman. These two names Symbolize excellence in football. Their proud paths have cros,sed an unprecedented seven limes. Now you can own a pan of this dynasty by taking advantage of this limited edition. special offer that will he cherished for a lifetime by any Fighting Irish fan. Paul Hornung says "This is one of the best spons collectible items I've seen in years". Manufactured by Baden Spons. the Hei.sman Signature Football is cratied lrom traditional brown and white full grain leather and bears the insignias of both Notre Utme and the Cbwmown Athletic Club. The main feature of this ball however. the personal signatures of all seven Notre Utme Heisman Trophy Winner.. is what makes it acollectible that should appreciate in value. With only 50<Xl ever made, this is truly an opponunity of a lifetime. Each ball is individually numbered and comes with aCertificate of Aulhenticily. 
All pha~t'f', "~mmure' ,ipnc:d with Shurpte ® penmmcnt Tht\ hKHhall hu' hecn unJumcJ h~ the l>nwntnwn Athil·trc C'luh ut 
Nt>w Yurt.. City U\ the t'ldu,n·c ltKrthal! In commcmurulc tlw Nutremarker Offer~~ ~nod while ~upplte\ ln\l Allo"' 4 tn fl week' 
AVALUABLE COLLECTIBLE AND AGREAT GIFT 
Danw Bcl\manTrophy Av.,ml Wmnt'l" lhl\ halt t\rrultcd trnm 1()()'11'fur delivery. Thl\ i~ un uftkilally licen,ed prnduct uf the !l<'IIUlnc tullBmin lcuthl.'f. The 10.orld-wttl•· produllrun i\guur,mtl.'cd 
UniVer.ny uf Notre Dame The: Downtown Athletic ('Jub of 
OWN APIECE OF FOOTBALL HISTORY 
IIUIIUCJ(l'CCd 5J)()(Itlitlh 1111' hKrlh:IIJ \hull \1.'1'\'C ;,, 11 trrhutc tnlhl'New Yurk City j, the owner ul the fedenally rrgl\lerell ..c:rvtce 
oUJ,tandtn!_! uthlch'' 10.h11 hu\C hl·cn vruntcd College
mark cun'''ungnt the Hel\tllllll Tn1phy anJ at' l1kenc". along 
CALL NOW hKrthaJI\ highc't hunnr -Th~: HcNmln Truphy Awurdwuh the wonh "Hca,mun Trophy Award: whu.:h ,m: '"''"e 
ttme\ reterred tfl.:ullccttvdyu' the "Hea•man.Sc:rv~c:c MarJ..,"' 
FOR IMMEDIATE SERVICE 
Shl:arpu: t\ 11 repl\tercd trade murk nlthe Suntnnl Corpmuuon Pnce r~ \Uh]ect to chan~c Send Orders to:
----:J

Spectrum Group. Inc. PO Box 85 Mo Nc" Jcrse> 07645
REMEMBER ONLY 5000 EVER MADE 
1·800·966·0866 
or I· AX to: 1-201-387-1449

1
·································------­
Please rush me my full grain leather, official 
Qty
DYes 

Notre Dame Heisman Signature Ball. 
Name -------------------------------------­Addrc" ------------------------­City/Stuleflip -------------------­
Daytrme Pht,nc -----------------­Method of Payment: 0 Check/Money Order 0 AmEx!VisaiMC Card Numher ____________ Exp. D:rte ----­
Signature================== 
'I (;uanmtee---J 
llf4trolll\ ll',l\1111\llllotrtnul\ulllplt•h•l\ \,lll'lilrl\\tlh \tlllrflllriiMw lllllrnil \\llllln 11ld,n,fur,!1UIInluncl 1 ----------~­
-
Description 

Notre Dame Heisman Signature Football 
USC Heisman Signature Football 
Ohio State Heisman Signature Football 
Penn StatcHeisman Signature Football 
Display Case (holds one ball) 
New Jersey residents add 6% sales tax 
Shipping and Handling per ball 
Shipping and Handling per case 
ASPECTRUM GROUP PROMOTION 72 KGRAND AVK MONTYALE NJ 07645 
AI.LOW4·ti WEEKS FOR DELIVER; OFFER ISGOOD,WHILESUM'LIES LAST 
Prict 
Total 
$295.00 $295.00 $295.00 $149.00 $30.00 
$10.00 $l0.(HJ TOTAL 
NDSS 


-------------~---------~--~-~------~---.......--~--­
Tuesday, November 30, 1993 The Observer· SPORTS 
Mirer's contributions leveling off .. 
By ROBERT HOLGUIN ''I'd like to think that we're progress." 
still improving. There are Against the Broncos, Seattle's things that we do pretty well offense gave a gimmick a try. SEATTLE but we're just streaky," Mirer For the first time this season, 
When the Seahawks drafted said after the 17-9 loss to the the Seahawks used a shotgun Rick Mirer, they hoped the Broncos that put a dent in formation for most of the game. young quarterback's raw talent Seattle's AFC wild-card hopes. But it wasn't effective. and scoring ability would acti­"I don't make excuses," he In 11 years as a head coach, 
vate the league's most dormant said. "Our goal is to be better Tom Flores has seldom used 
offense. every day. It's just not going to the formation. But he said It's worked, to a degree. be easy." Mirer seems better suited to With five games left in the Larry Kennan, Seattle's of­throw from the backfield. 
1993 season, the Seahawks find fensive coordinator. said the "I've had it in the system be­themselves at 5-6. It's a team's ability to score is im­fore; I just never use it," Flores 
marked improvement over last proving slowly, but it is improv­said. "I think Rick could be a year's dismal 2-14 finish. But ing. very good shotgun guy.' Sunday's loss to Denver shows "Maybe you don't see it in the With the shotgun. Mirer gets a 
Mirer's contributions could be scores. but the offense is get­better look at the pass rush. leveling ofT. ting better," Kennan said. "I That's an important factor: he's For the second game in a row, see it in the films and in the endured 35 sacks this season, the rookie was ine!Tective. individual performances. I see six in the Denver game. 
Associated Press Writer 

CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK COURSES ADDED AME 598E 01 ~5812 ·Fundamentals of Combustion: 3 cr. hrs.: MWF 02:20·03:10 AME 698E 01 •5802 ·Perturbation Methods; 3 cr. hrs. AME 700 02 •5793 ·Nonresident Dissertation Research; 1 cr hr. AME 700 03 #5794 ·Nonresident Dissertation Research; 1 cr. hr. ANTH 488X 02 •5795 · Dir Rsrch in Bioarchaeology II; 3 cr. hrs.: Permissio Required; by invitation only CE 498 11 ~5813 ·Directed Studies: var. cr. hrs.; Permission Required CE 598F 01 ~5797 -Constitutive Model Struct Mach; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 11:()().12:15 CHEG 327T 01 •sao? ·Thermodynamics Tutortal: 0 cr. hr.; M 02:20-03:10 CHEG 327T 02 #5808 ·Thermodynamics Tutorial; 0 cr. hr.; H 02:45·03:25 CHEG 327T 03 #5809 ·Thermodynamics Tutorial; 0 cr. hr.; W 02:20-03:10 CHEM 111 01 #5796 ·Modern Chemistry & Biochemistry Seminars: 0 cr hrs.; H 01 :15-02:05; Freshmen only CSE 499R 09 #5803 ·Undergraduate Research: var. credit hours: Permission Req. EE 464 01 #5787 ·Intra to Neural Networks: 3 cr. hrs.: TH 11:00·12:15: cross listed with CSE 472 EE 498K 01 ~5804 ·Communication Systems Laboratory; 1 cr. hr.; T 02:00·0530; Permission Required EE 563 01 ~5784 ·Stochastic Process: 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required ENGL 440M 01 #5791 -Shakespeare in Performance II: 4 cr. hrs.; MWF 11 :15· 12:30; Permission Required; cross-listed with COTH 440 ENGL 457Z 01 #5799 -Sam: 18th Century Poetry: 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00; cross listed with ENGL 550B: Permission Required ENGL 465A 01 #5801 -Victorian Lit. and Culture: 3 cr. hrs.: TH 01:15-02:30; Majors only; cross-listed with ENGL 567-01 ENGL 497E 01 #5800 ·Objectivist Strain Am. Poetry; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 02:20·03:35; Junior and Senior majors only: cross-listed with ENGL 590 01 GOVT 474 01 #5782 ·Conflict Resolution· Theory and Practice: 3 cr. hrs.: W 02:30 05:00: Junior and Senior majors only through 3rd pd; then open to all Juniors and Seniors: cross-listed w/IIPS 474G GOVT 496 01 #5783 ·Social Concerns Seminar: Washington; 1 cr hr.; Permission Required contact Center for Social Concerns: cross-listed with lHEO 363 liPS 474G 01 #5785 ·Conflict Resolution-Theory and Practice; 3 cr. hrs.; W 02:30-05:00; Permission Required;cross-listed w/ GOVT 474  MSA 574 01 #5788 -Auditing Theory and Practice; 3 cr. hrs.: TH 01:15·02:30; cross-listed with ACCT 4 75 PHYS 448 01 #5790 -Senior Seminar II; 1 cr. hr.; M03:25-04:15 THEO 500C 01 #5789 -Faith and Tradition II; 3 cr. hrs.; H 08:30-10:30; Permission Required THEO 526 01 #5816. ·Topics: Early Christianity; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 11:15·12:30; cross listed with Ml 525-01 THEO 598 21 #5818 ·Directed Readings: var. cr. hrs.: Permission Required THEO 599 02 #581 0 • MA Thesis; 6 cr. hrs. AERO 465 01 #4506 ·Remove all restrictions ANTH 473 01 #4978 ·Add Permission Required ARCH 246 01 #1116 -Change time to: TH 11:00-12:15 ARCH 544 01 #1245 -Change time to: TH09:00-10:45 ARCH 598A 01 #1251 ·Change days and time to: W 06:30-09:30: remove Permission Required ARCH 598D 01 #5775 ·Remove Permission Required,and change time to: MWF 10:10-11:00 ARST !50S 01 #0249 ·Change restriction to: ARHI. ARST or DESN majors or intended Freshmen majors only CAPP 470 01 #3155 ·Add Permission Required CHEG 327 01 #2533 -Change days and time to: TH 11:00-12:15 CHEG356 01 #0566 ·Changetimeto: THOB:00-09:15 CHEM 243 01 #1757 ·Change prerequisites to: CHEM 223, 235 or 247 CHEM 322A 01 #4938 ·Change prerequisites to: CHEM 313 or 321A COMM 304 28 #9728 ·Remove Permission Required and COMM 313 COTH 361 01 #5781 ·Add prerequisite: GOTH 101,104,201 or204 COTH 468 01 #3800 ·Change time to: MW 02:20-04:50 ECON 123A 01 #5094 -Change time to: MW01:15-02:05 ECON 123T 01 #5061 ·Change time to: F 01:15-02:05 ECON 123T 02 #5062 ·Change time to: F01:15·02:05 ECON 123T 03 #5063 ·Change time to: F 01:15-02:05 ECON 123T 04 #5064 ·Change time to: F 01:15·02:05 ECON 451 01 #1177 ·Change pre-requisite to: ECON 350 or 454 ECON 502 01 #2042 ·Change time to: MW 08:40-09:55 ECON 592 01 #2572 ·Change time to: TH 02:45-04:00 ECON 652 01 #5697 -Change to 1.5 credit hours  EDUC 340F 28 #8428 ·Add restriction: Majors only EDUC 350F 30 #8430 ·Add restriction: Majors only EDUC 370 40 •8440 ·Add restriction: Majors only EDUC 370 42 •8442 ·Add restriction: Majors only EDUC 475 66 #8466 ·Add restriction: Majors only ENGl 599 01 #5703 ·Remove Permission Required ENGL 600 01 #5704 ·Remove Permission Required ENGL 699 01 #5707 ·Remove Permission Required ENGL 700 01 #5708 ·Remove Permission Required GOVT 431 01 #5202 ·Add prerequisite: GOVT 141 or 341 HIST 570 01 #5279 ·Changetimeto: TH09:30·10:45 HIST 885 01 #5288 ·Change days and time to: M 04:30-07:00 HPS 570 01 #5290 ·Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45 liPS 679A 01 #4069 ·Change time to: TH 12:45-02:00 liPS 679B 01 #4068 ·Change time to: TH 12:45·02:00 LAW 679A 01 #4067 -Change time to: TH 12:45-02:00 LAW 679B 01 #4070 -Change time to: TH 12:45-02:00 MARK 231B 01 ~0663 ·Change days and time to: H 02:45-05:15 MATH662 01 #0439 ·Changetimeto: MWF01:15-02:05 MBA 645 01 #2069 ·Change credit hours to 3, begin/end dates to 1/12194-4/27194 ME 226 01 #0986 ·Change pre-requisite to: ME 225 and MATH 225 ME 236L 01 #1188 ·Add: ME 236 or CE 236 prerequisite ME 439 01 #1929 ·Change exam type to: D and pre-requisite to (AERO 360 or ME 334) & (ME 327 or CHEG 327) &(MATH 325 or ME 321) ME 445 01 #0230 ·Delete ME 340 as a prerequisite ME 456 01 #4855 ·Change time to: MWF 02:20-03:10 Ml 525 01 #5324 ·Title should be: "Topics: Early Chrtstianity" Ml 673 01 #5340 ·Change time to: W 02:30-05:00 PSY 453 01 #5420 ·Add Permission Required PSY 540 01 #0075 ·Change time to: M 12:30-02:30 ROFR 451 01 #5453 ·Course is taught in French THEO 584 01 #2730 ·Change time to: W 11 :20-12:35 THEO 593C 01 #3506 -Change time to: W 02:35·04:35 THE0616 01 #5575 ·Changedayto: H09:30-12:00 THEO 673 01 #5578 ·Change time to: W 02:30-05:00 THEO 680 01 #2982 ·Change time to: MW 12:50·02:0  
COURSES CAN­THEO 290 01 2560 ARCH 444 02 2384 CEJ.Wl ARCH 598E 01 1134 #5743 • AME 598C·01 CLOSED COURSES ARHI169 01 3773 #3999· ARST446S-01 ACCT 231 01 4819 ARHI 252T 02 4994 #2101 · ARST476S·01 ACCT 232 05 4831 ARHI 403 01 4997 #3859 • EE 498A·01 ACCT 372 02 0684 ARHI462 01 4164 #5769 · EE 498J-01 ACCT 372 03 3238 ARST 134S 01 1216 #5145· ENGL 409-01 ACCT 372 04 3601 ARST 150S 01 0249 #5140-ENGL440A·01 ACCT 475 01 3866 ARST 212S 01 1477 #5141-ENGL440B·01 ACCT 479 01 1780 ARST 232S 01 3068 #5777 · GOVT 423-01 ACCT 480 02 0744 ARST 242S 01 2198 #5234 • GOVT 670-01 AFAM 258 01 4802 ARST 246S 01 4000 #1971 · HIST 566-01 AFAM 258 02 4805 ARST 248S 01 2276 #5285 • HIST 664-01 AFAM 306 01 4983 ARST 294S 01 0787 #5778 • liPS 423G·01 AFAM 329 01 4611 ARST 326S 01 0732 #3006· MBA 696-01 AFAM 329 02 4613 BA 230 02 OP24 #0947· ME498C·01 AFAM 372 01 4097 BA 362 01 2822 #3631 · ROSP 212-02 AFAM 384C 01 4940 BA 392 01 4839 #4782. sc 456-01 AFAM 389 01 4433 BA 392 02 4840 #1417-soc 525-01 AFAM 391 01 3975 BA 464 01 3743 #5490· soc 670-01 AFAM 419B 01 4941 BA 464 02 3842 #1453· THEO 366·01 AFAM 419C 01 4942 BA 490 02 0370 #2603 · THEO 498·01 AFAM 454 01 4064 BA 490 03 2571 #4412· THE0525-01 AMST 317E 01 4951 BA 490 04 1499 AMST 342H 01 4985 BIOS 344L 01 2068 CLASSES THAT AMST 344H 01 4987 BIOS 344L 02 0141 WILL REOPEN AT AMST 347H 01 4989 BIOS 407L 01 2655 7:00 P.M. 11130/93 AMST 348H 01 4990 BIOS 411L 01 2367 AFAM391 013975 AMST 349H 01 4991 BIOS 412L 01 1556 ARST 232S013068 AMST 365E 01 4952 CAPP 253 01 0337 BA 362 012822 AMST 398E 01 4954 CAPP 316 01 3406 ENGL316G 01 5113 AMST 399E 01 4955 CAPP 331 01 3868 ENGL325 015119 AMST 417E 01 4956 CAPP 361 01 2379 ENGL392B01 5125 AMST 418E 01 4959 CAPP 485 01 5039 ENGL393 01 5127 AMST 431 E 01 4958 CE 440 01 0515 ENGL415E01 4580 AMST 458E 01 4960 CE 470 01 2437 ENGL471 01 5150 AMST 495E 01 4964 CHEG 556 01 2225 ENGL495G 01 5158 AMST 496E 01 4965 CHEM 119L 01 3880 GSC 342 01 3277 ANTH 328 01 3920 CHEM 202 02 0962 HIST 447A01 5268 ANTH 329 01 4610 CHEM 202 041815 HIST 454 01 4065 ANTH 329 02 4615 CHEM 224L 07 4921 HIST 494 01 5276 ANTH 330 01 2516 CLAS 325 01 4043 PHIL 244 01 2317 ANTH 389 01 4434 CLAS 427 01 4420 PHIL 248 01 4514 ANTH 403 01 4974 CLAS 442 01 2346 PHIL 253 01 5361 ANTH 450 01 4977 COMM 103 05 9705 PHIL 258 02 4804 ANTH 454 01 3988 COMM 103 07 9707 PHIL 261 02 2451 ANTH 454A 01 3989 COMM 103 09 9709  COMM 210 16 9716 ENGL 340 01 5121 GOVT 495 01 5714 COMM 304 28 9728 ENGL 373 01 5123 GSC 282 01 5177 COMM 454 40 9740 ENGL 384C 01 5124 GSC 342 01 3277 COTH 204 02 4626 ENGL 392B 01 5125 GSC 419C 01 5182 COTH 205 02 4591 ENGL 392D 01 5126 GSC 424 01 4799 COTH 301 01 5050 ENGL 393 01 5127 GSC 489 01 5186 COTH 435 01 4665 ENGL 411A 01 5700 GSC 495B 01 5188 COTH 476 01 5057 ENGL 413A 01 4421 HIST116T031104 COTH 481 01 5058 ENGL 415E 01 4580 HIST 116T 05 3071 COTH 489 01 5059 ENGL 419B 01 5133 HIST 227T 01 5247 CSE 210 01 2641 ENGL 419C 01 5134 HIST 309A 01 4063 CSE 341 01 4877 ENGL434 01 5137 HIST 327A 01 3889 ECON 123T 01 5061 ENGL 435A 01 5139 HIST 337A 01 5254 ECON 123T 02 5062 ENGL 440M 01 5791 HIST 342A 01 3918 ECON 123T 03 5063 ENGL 458C 01 5144 HIST 348A 01 4450 ECON 224 01 3794 ENGL 467A 01 5149 HIST 359A 01 4717 ECON 224T 01 5085 ENGL471 01 5150 HIST 361A 01 5256 ECON 315 01 2283 ENGL 480 01 5151 HIST 372A 01 5257 ECON 340 01 4041 ENGL 483 01 4094 HIST 375A 01 5258 ECON 422 01 2241 ENGL 489 01 5152 HIST 378A 01 5260 ECON 430 01 0178 ENGL 489B 01 5153 HIST 391 01 5261 ECON 456 01 0977 ENGL 491A 01 5154 HIST 403 01 4702 ECON 460 01 4264 ENGL 492E 01 5155 HIST 403A 01 4703 ECON 462 01 5090 ENGL 495G 01 5158 HIST 420 01 4399 ECON 487 01 0367 ENGL 497B 01 5159 HIST 420A 01 5266 EDUC 324 27 8427 ENGL 513 01 5162 HIST 447A 01 5268 EDUC 370 42 8442 FIN 360 03 2674 HIST 454 01 4065 EE 232 01 4885 FIN 360 04 2535 HIST 454A 01 4066 EE 232L 01 4887 FIN 370 01 1246 HIST 460 01 3860 EE 232L 02 4888 FIN 380 01 3635 HIST 460A 01 3862 EE 232L 03 4889 FIN 478 01 2782 HIST 477A 01 5270 EE 354L 01 0933 FS 180 01 3301 HIST 484 01 5271 EE 354L 02 2605 FS 180 02 3632 HIST 490 01 5272 EE 498H 01 4507 FS 180 21 2088 HIST 493 01 5275 ENGL 201 01 5097 FS 180 25 3317 HIST 494 01 5276 ENGL 301 01 0758 FS 180 26 2681 HIST 504 01 3861 ENGL 301 02 5665 GE 313 01 0544 liPS 415E 01 4582 ENGL 302 01 5102 GE 410 01 4095 liPS 491A 01 4300 ENGL 305B 01 5103 GOVT 316F 01 4588 liPS 515E 01 4581 ENGL 310 02 5105 GOVT 342T 01 0755 liPS 543 01 4133 ENGL 314A 01 4042 GOVT 343T 04 1424 liPS 566 01 4411 ENGL 316G 01 5113 GOVT 343T 05 2942 liPS 590 01 5306 ENGL 319B 01 5115 GOVT 343T 06 1430 liPS 602 01 5721 ENGL 319E 01 5116 GOVT 343T 08 154 7 LAW 615C 01 0077 ENGL 322A 01 5118 GOVT 454 01 5204 LAW 631E 01 3147 ENGL325 015119 GOVT 492B 01 5209 LAW 631F 01 2383 ENGL 334 01 5120 GOVT 492E 01 5211 LAW 631G 01 0041  LAW 631H 01 2672 PHIL 201 07 2972 ROFR 429 01 5451 LAW 635 01 1671 PHIL 216 01 5359 ROSP 103 04 0919 LAW 676 01 1220 PHIL 217 01 5360 ROSP 1 03 05 3043 LAW 676A 01 2435 PHIL 221 01 3828 ROSP 232 01 2145 LAW 695 01 3128 PHIL 222 01 3590 ROSP 235 01 3742 LAW 695 02 3790 PHIL 222 02 0405 ROSP 236 01 1077 LAW 695 03 3010 PHIL 225 01 4188 ROSP 310 01 5463 LAW 695 04 0632 PHIL 227 01 0274 ROSP 319 01 1332 LAW 695 051211 PHIL 241 011610 ROSP 319 02 2483 LAW 695 06 2140 PHIL 241 02 1621 ROSP 329 01 3834 MARK 381 01 3366 PHIL 244 01 2317 ROSP 433 01 5730 MARK 381 02 5739 PHIL 245 01 4073 ROSP 495 01 5731 MARK 493 01 0315 PHIL 246 01 0084 ROSP 499 01 0974 MATH 103 01 1297 PHIL 248 01 4514 RU 374 01 5189 MATH 336 02 3770 PHIL 253 01 5361 soc 202 01 5466 MBA 602 01 4846 PHIL 258 01 4803 soc 220 01 1344 MBA 625 01 3947 PHIL 258 02 4804 soc 232 01 2050 MBA 629 02 0512 PHIL 259 01 5362 soc 234 01 1936 MBA 637 01 3116 PHIL 261 01 1752 soc 242 01 4478 MBA 648 01 4848 PHIL 261 02 2451 soc 242 02 3856 MBA 675 01 4773 PHIL 264 01 1419 soc 302 01 2512 MBA 682 02 2569 PHIL 264 02 5363 soc 306 01 5467 MGT 231A 01 2167 PHIL 264 03 5364 soc 346 01 4081 MGT 355 01 1629 PHIL 268 01 1646 soc 370 01 0507 MGT 497 01 1724 PHIL 519 01 5373 soc 374 01 5468 MGT 499 01 4775 PHYS 222L 02 2555 soc 419 01 4362 Ml 309 01 4062 PHYS 222L 05 0672 soc 424 01 4798 Ml 334 01 5310 PHYS 222L 06 2514 soc 440 01 5471 Ml 403 01 4701 PHYS 309 01 4237 STV 454 01 3990 Ml 406 01 5311 PSY 211 A 01 0269 THEO 229 01 4762 Ml 429 01 5313 PSY 342 01 1136 THEO 243 02 1039 Ml 435 01 5315 PSY 342 02 0551 THEO 252 01 0047 Ml 494 01 5320 PSY 350 01 0685 THEO 254 01 2588 Ml 523 01 5323 PSY 356 01 0585 THEO 255 02 5507 Ml 531 01 5326 PSY 357 01 3462 THEO 260 01 0228 Ml 533 01 5327 PSY 361 01 5390 THEO 263 02 2856 Ml 549 01 5329 PSY 396A 01 5391 THEO 265 01 3001 Ml 674 01 5341 PSY 405 01 5419 THEO 281 01 4105 MSA 574 01 5788 PSY 479 01 5424 THEO 282 01 5510 MSCI312 03 2100 PSY 487B 01 5427 THEO 287 01 2645 MUS 220 01 0763 PSY 565 01 5433 THEO 290 01 2560 MUS 222 01 3106 RLST 213 20 9520 THEO 405 01 4398 MUS 223 01 3247 RLST 213 22 9522 THTR 135 50 9750 MUS 225 01 2041 RLST 242 28 9528 THTR 230 51 9751 MUS 226 01 1109 RLST 251 32 9532 THTR 276 53 9753 MUS 228 01 5343 RLST 458 43 9543 THTR 41 0 60 9760 MUS 230 01 1655 ROFR 103 042411  

... 
r..-----p-a-ge-1...8----------------------T-h_e_O_b_s_erv-er_•_S_P_O_R:_T_S___________---___ll_u_<W,y, No~m-b-er-30~~9~3-~­
Last 

r .. SMC battles Hope College tonight 
By MARY GOOD shot thirty three-pointers and have the chemistry yet. Saint Mary's Spans Editor hit thirteen. night the passing was good "We've been practicing press­though, we didn't have many 
The Saint Mary's basketball ing the guards so they can't run turnovers. The chemistry is team is looking for their first the plays. This will be impor­getting there," Taubenheim win tonight as they host Hope tant so we keep them on the said. College at 7 p.m. outside so thay can't get into "We are getting used to play­
Like Saint Mary's, Hope is a the center and hit the three ing together," Kopperud said. very young team, but they are pointer shots," said freshman Coach Wood is depending also a veteran team. Most of guard, Sarah Kopperud. heavily on Taubenheim and their team played last year, Coming away from a 64-62 newcomer Kopperud tonight. said the Belles' coach Marvin loss against Indiana University "We have to have Jennie in Wood. at South Bend before Thanks­every game. She's a strong 
The biggest threat that Hope giving break. the Belles are try­rebounder and strong offen­poses to Saint Mary's is their ing to get back into the swing of sively. We also are looking to strong 6'2" center, Carlson, things, Wood said. Kopperud to give us a lift at Wood added. Last season Saint Mary's de­guard," Wood said. 
"Carlson plays the inside post feated Hope 77-72. The team is gaining more ex­up well and shoots the three "We have our hands full, but perience, Mulcahy said. pointers from the perimeter," they're heatable," Wood said. "The freshmen are getting Wood said. The Belles did not practice used to this level of competi­
"We will have to help out on over break which Wood says tion. We will really need them defense. If we collapse on her may prove to be detrimental for to come off the bench and and play team defense, we ean the team. The team, however, help," Taubenheim said. shut her down," said senior for­is walking away from their past ward, Anne Muleahy. two practices confident. "Hopefully we will play as a 
All of Hope's players shoot "Last night's practice went team tonight, overcome our well from the perimeter, Wood really well. Againt I.U.S.B. we losses and pull out a win," said. In their last game they didn't play as a team; we didn't Mulcahy said. 
ALDI INCORPORATED 
INVITE 

The UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME students to attend a presentation on career opportunities 
Wednesday, December 1, 1993 
7:00p.m. 
Alumni Room Morris Inn 
Your Host 

Michael J. Jessen General Manager -Valparaiso Division 
All majors encouraged to attend. Refreshments will be served. 
WINTER INTERVIEW DATE: 
FEBRUARY 3, 1994 
\11.~..1.:, •• J .;... ......:.A.·.:....~ .........:.~ ~ ·.. 
. ; 
·~i
;ff==l 

.. 
I ""•• ' 
ALDI1 

ALDI~ is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer 

Tuesday, November 30, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'/00 1-J.EAt-\ \Ts Bt.I>TitJ\E f\1'\t> '(()\l 1-\11-.'lEt-\1 £.'1/E.t-\ STf>..'R\'i:.t> WRITING ~OOR. l'i'>.PER FeR SC.\\OOL ?t W\\~i 1-\1>-IJE '{OO BE£.\\1 l)OIHG ,1>..\.L £.\JEl'\\I'{G 
WE.\.L F\?ST, 1-\Cl\SSts /•..N,\J I 
1~\J'Et-\\t.'D i>..Wv C~'SI~c.iE'D 
i'>. 11\\1-\I<.\\'-(G C"-? TH"-T 
A.\JGMENTED t-'\'{ Bl<f>..\1'{ 5o I C.C)I.JlD T\-\1\-.1'!:. IJP f>.. GOOP TOPIC , i'>.t-ID TI-lEN WE \)R£.'#.1 
ILL\JSTRf>..T\C.~S 0~ ... 
BILL WATTERSON 
I Wl\'5\'-(\ EW'<:CT\\-\.G TO GEl 
A\l\)IT£0 
SO SOON. 

DAVE KELLETT 


At the Federal Mole Penitentiary 
OF INTEREST 


Jl~rQ·Life Day With CarcUanl O'Conner: ND/SMC ~ight to Life is inviting all students to spend a day o pray~r in tpe Spring with one of the Jl10st respected pro­life leaders in the church. Students will receive informa­~~~P 1.\;(ld refP~~aUon foqns through campus mail today. ·~elebr!lti()l'ls Aro~nd the World· Islam: will be held 
ednesday at 12:15-1 p.m.in the Notre Dame Room at 

~. Fortune. The Multicultural Executive Council is spon­soring speakers of different religions throughout this 
Mteek. Refreshments will be served. 
·=·:·:=:: :; >{\ -~Y"

•th' Student.Art Forum is spoosodng a.CJu:istmas 
tree-trimming study break. Videos of the Grinch. Rudolph and Frosty the Sno\¥Illan will be playing all afternoon. Eggnog, cider and doughnuts will be offered to Santa's helpers. The event is scheduled tomorrow from 1·4 p.m; at the Snite Museum. 
•"Effective 
Interviewing": The single most important part of the employment process is the interview. This workshop will cover the types of questions typically asked, verbal and non-verbal behaviors, and some gen­eraldo's and dont's Effective Interviewing workshop will be held Tue~day,. Nov.. 30, in the Foster Room at La Fortune from 6:30 ·.·c-:.·7;30 p.m... Presented by Olivia Williams, A!lsistant Director -Career and Placement Sevices.··•··· ''·"'' 

•An 
Graduate Students are invited to the Graduate Student Union Council meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room at~ Fortune.


<KL.. ...... ... ······· .. . 
•The Annual UNICEF Card and Gift Sale, sponsored by the Ladies of Notre Daifie and St. Mary's, will be held Nov. 29 ~ Dec. 3 and Dec. 6 • Dec. 10; 9 a.m. • 4 p.m.in the llesburgb Library .<::oncourse. 

DINING HALL 

ACROSS 
1 Musical finale 
5 Own up 10 Contest party 14 Shoshoneans 15 Wife of Mikhail 
Sergeyevich 16 Claudius's 107 17 John Paul 
Jones's vessel 20 Indonesian coin 21 Kegler's count 22 Lizard's milieu 23 Campus 
greeneries 25 Support 26 Amber. copal, 
etc. 28 La. county 29 Basketry f1ber 30 Healer of Hellas 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1-::::t':-t":..,-.;.t.:~,llllll\~111! '=+=+-'--~-='-~-=+'~ 
27 To be, to Virgil 39 A violet 45 Former N.B.A. 28 Some are 41 Omitted player Jack greased 42 Senator Dole, 
47 Defeat soundly

for one
30 Walk. trot and 
49 Roster 

pace 43 Many a time 31 Have tea 34 Arthur of the 
courts 35 Raised welts 36 W.W. II battle 
site near Caen 37Ann--, founder of the Shakers in 
America 38 Sudden fancies 39 Pound pieces 40 Is worthy of 42Aiex--. 
Lion-turned­actor 43 Spotted wildcats 45 Not so maniacal 46 Limited 

47 Cans in Canterbury 48 1040 supplier 51 Logo 54 Lo, to Lucretius 55 Soul 56 Range above tenor 57 Penury 
58"--can serve two masters ...":Matt. 6:24 
59 Kind of moss 
DOWN 
1 Bear and fox 
young 2 A Plains tribe 3 Hank 
Ketcham's 
hellion 
4 Bat wood 5 Hordes 6 Condemns 7 Architect-­
van der Rohe 
8 Middle East st. 9 Stylishly trim 1 o Straight. downhill run 11 First czar of Russia 

50 Money hole12 Sad psalm 32 Soprano Gluck 44 Sorceress of 52 52 semanas 

, ••13 Downy duck Aeaea 53 Cartograph33 Prepare salad II 18 Think 
~~...j...:...l 19 Gen. Powell 35 Jazz-orchestra H.:+..:_,~i!lll-=-~-=+;.+:::...j..:..:..j 24 Contemptible 
conductor Paul 

Get answers to any three clues 
~=+=-+=-+,.:..~ 25 Bundles 
36 Tender by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
1-=4--4'---+=-~ 26 Mullah's 
moolah 38 Corresponded 5656 (75c each minute). 
.-----------------·------------------~-----------------------­
--------l 
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, November 30, 1993 
Irish rise to the occaision and trounce Valparaiso in opener 
By JASON KELLY "The biggest difference in the Associate Sports Editor first half was Hoover," Cru­saders' coach Homer Drew 
It was the kind of game the said. "When we couldn't stop Notre Dame men's basketball him, he really hurt us." team lost a year ago. The Irish Valparaiso, the nation's best had a tendency to play down 3-point shooting team a year to-and often below-the level ago, hit just six of 15. of their opponent. "Their defense definitely took 
Sunday they rose to the occa­away our 3-pointers and that sion. hurt us," Drew said. "Their 
Monty Williams scored 31 of substituting kept the inside his career-high 42 points in the game away from us, and their second half to lift the Irish to a defense took away the three." 95-7 4 season-opening win over Notre Dame rotated 11 play­Valparaiso in front of 8, 651 ers, and the fresh legs helped fans at the Joyce Center. improve defensive pressure and 
"Monty had a very powerful shooting percentage. The Irish second half," Notre Dame shot an impressive 19-for-27 coach John MacLeod said. "lie from the field in the second half took advantage of every oppor­to finish the game at 55 per­tunity and took the ball to the cent. basket strongly." "We had a lot of people come 
After a sluggish start, Notre in off the bench and con­Dame went on a 13-3 run in tribute," MacLeod said. "I was the last four minutes or the first very pleased with our depth." half to open a 46-36 halftime Senior forward Carl Cozen lead. came off the bench to grab six 
Hyan lloover keyed the spurt rebounds in 21 minutes and with three of his six first half 3-junior guard Jason Williams pointers. lie finished the half scored seven points and pulled with 22 points. 
see HOOPS I page 16 

ND defense halts Illinois-Chicago 
Bowen swiped six in the Irish victory. Morgan also con­tributed two of the four blocked shots recorded for the Irish. 
"I was very pleased with our defense," Jones said. "But, I think we need to improve our offensive execution." 
Careless turnovers and poor shot selection was the only dim spot for the Irish. Although the Irish committed 19 turnovers, their pressure forced 34 from the Flames. 
"I thought we played really well defensively. Our offense had problems and we turned the ball over a lot," said fresh­man Jeannine Augustin. "It was kind of nerve-racking in the first quarter when we couldn't get into the game. We need to be more patient and not force bad shots." 
Their tremendous defensive effort caused UIC to hit only 26 percent of their field goals in 
By AMY GRIFFIN ures for the Irish was freshman the first half. The defensive 
Sports Writer Beth Morgan, who scored 10 of pressure continued when the 
her 12 points in the second 
Irish outscored the Flames 55­
In their season opener, the half. This followed an 18-point 26 in the second half. 
women's basketball team performance in her first colle­
.. 
crushed Illinois-Chicago 93-50 giate game last week. Notre Dame had an impres­on Saturday, using defensive Senior Tootie Jones also 
sive .857 three-point percent­
pressure to force 34 turnovers added an 11-point effort in the 
age, hitting 6-7. Four Irish 
and create scoring opportunites victory. 
players were perfect from be­
to pace the rout. "At first I thought we would hind the line, with Morgan and 
The Irish chalked up 22 steals struggle," said Jones about the Orlosky each hitting two treys
and outscored the Flames 55-team's performance in the first 
and Kara Leary and Susan 
26 in the second half. quarter. "We started communi­Atchinson hitting one a piece.
Senior Sherri Orlosky led the cating better before the half Although the Irish defeated 
team with 16 points, while ended. Our defense was awe­VIC 76-71 last year, Notre sophomore Carey Poor sparked some." 
Dame refused to keep it that 
the team by coming off the The team posted 22 steals, 
close this time around. They
bench and chipping in 14 which is the most since the 
pulled away in the second half 
points. team record of 29 was set in to secure their first win. 
Also contributing double fig-1991 against Saint Louis. 


r 

Pro Football Rick Mirer has had a successful season with the seahawks so far. see page 17 
Inside SPORTS 

SMC Sports The Belles will take on Hope College this evening at 7 p.m. at 

Angela Athletic Facility see page 18 
Irish win one and drop two in Great Alaska Face-Off 
By JONATHAN JENSEN take a 4-3 lead over the Associate Sports Editor Huskies. Less than five minutes after 
The Notre Dame hockey team Tech got a tying goal from continued to prove they have Randy Stevens at the 11:35 what it takes to compote in one mark, Lorenz pushed through of the nation's toughest confer­his second of the game and ences, as the Irish won one fourth of the year at the 16:04 game and lost two closo CCHA mark to win it for the Irish. contests on a weekend trip to Wade Salzman played the Alaska for the Great Alaska entire game in the goal for the Face-Off. Irish and made 29 saves, as 
The Irish started the weekend Irish coaeh Hie Schafer played off on Thanksgiving by beating two other goalies throughout 11th-ranked Michigan Tech 5-the weekend, in addition to 4, but they then dropped a 6-5 senior Greg Louder. decision to Alaska-Fairbanks "Wade played a great game," on Friday. A 2-1 overtime loss noted Ling. "He made some to third-ranked Lake Superior huge saves." State rounded out the weekend, Friday's loss to Alaska­that followed a 14-hour plane Fairbanks was just as wild, as trip to Alaska. the Irish went down 3-0 before 
"It took us a while to get our rallying behind two goals from legs after the trip," said sopho­Brett Bruininks to pull within more center Jaime Ling, who 4-3 at the 16:28 mark of the scored the Irish's first goal in second period. their win over Michigan Tech. Notre Dame then went "But we played well and kept behind 6-3 before two goals together all weekend. from Matt Bieck and Osieki 
"I think we put three good closed out the scoring at the games together-we could have 11:51 mark. The Irish pulled won all three." Louder out of the net with 45 
The Irish came back twice in seconds left. but could not push the victory over the Michigan across a goal. Tech Huskies, after they went "We had a couple of bad min­ahead on Ling's fourth goal of utes to let them go ahead 3-0," the year at the 6:37 mark of the said Ling. "But we battled first period. back." 
The Huskies went ahead 2·1 The next night the Irish on a goal by right wing Mitch played Lake State tough once Lane just 34 seconds into the again, after upsetting the third­second period. From there the ranked Lakers last Friday. Irish got goals from Terry After skating through a score· Lorenz and Matt Osiecki in the less first period, the Irish second and one from Brent Lamppa 1:35 into the third to 
see HOCKEY I page 16 
Volleyball The Irish welcome back coach Debbie Brown. 
see page 15 






