~----~---~----------­


By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
In the eight months since Frank Flynn and Nicole Wellmann took office as student body president and vice-presi­dent, they have successfully completed three of their four major campaign goals. 
In their campaign last winter, Flynn and Wellmann proposed the creation of a campus-wide Book Fair, a year-round stor­age facility, a comprehensive listing of student evaluations of their professors and classes, and a job bank computer pro­gram. The storage facility is the only project which has not been accomplished. 
Despite their inability to fulfill the storage promise, student government's other projects have been successful, according to William Kirk, assistant vice­president of Student Affairs. 
"(The Book Fair) got off the ground very well. (The Guide) was one of their big successes, too, but the first year is not go­ing to be the most impressive year. They did not have the participation of as many faculty members as they would have liked," said Kirk. 
Joe Cassidy, director of stu­dent activities, agrees. 
"For a first shot effort, I was very impressed with The Guide. It is extremely difficult to pull off, particularly if you don't have unanimous support from the faculty," said Cassidy. 
In terms of the Book Fair, "student government hit a home run" with that project, according to Cassidy. 
"That is a project that other student government leaders have taken a stab at and they haven't been as popular or suc­cessful," he said. 
The Job Network, according to Career and Placement Director Kitty Arnold, has at­tracted the interest of several students who have asked her how to use the program. It is difficult to say how many stu­dents have received employ­ment through the Network, however, because it is still early in the summer job search pro­cess. 
Overall, according to Cassidy, student government has been committed to a large number of difficult projects. 
"It is tough to judge their suc­cess in a semester, because you need to continue your efforts throughout your term. I have been impressed with the amount of projects they have undertaken, though," said Cassidy. 
According to Flynn, the main problem with the storage pro­posal is whether to aim for a long-term or a short-term fa­cility. For a long-term facility, student government's storage task force proposes construct­ing a permanent facility on campus. Otherwise, in terms of a short-term solution, semi­trailers could be rented to hold students' belongings. The trail­ers would be stored on campus each summer. 
In its report, the task force supports the long-term solution because it would reduce stu­dent storage costs more than the trailer solution, and be more secure against theft or weather damage. The question facing student government now is whether it is fair to have future students help pay off the necessary loan even though they did not vote for such a fa­cility. 
"We can get the loan," said 
Flynn. "The problem is how to effectively market the facility when future students did not vote for it. It is an ethical and a philosophical question." 

However, the roadblocks that Flynn and Wellmann have en­countered with the storage pro­posal are problems that any student government adminis­tration would have hit, accord­ing to Kirk. 
"It was kind of a lofty idea," 
see GOVERNMENT I page 4 
Student involvement primary goal 
By KATIE MURPHY News Writer 
In addition to their primary campaign goals, Flynn and Wellmann have attempted to encourage more student in­volvement and campus com­munication on campus social life, multiculturalism, and fi­nancial aid, among other is­sues. 
"The number one goal of stu­dent government is to get peo­ple involved," said Flynn. 
Part of their efforts to in­crease participation in student government projects includes fostering dialogue on these campus concerns. Flynn and Wellmann have tried to bridge the gap between their LaFortune offices and the resi­dence halls by attending hall council meetings. 
"We go (to the dorms) and I usually just sit there and an­swer questions. We usually hit every dorm in a three week cy­cle," said Flynn. 
According to Joe Cassidy, di­rector of student activities, this practice is a positive step to­wards increasing communica­tion. 
"There's more dialogue, and with more dialogue they are working with better informa­tion," said Cassidy. 
Some students, however, did not think the hall council visits 
see STUDENT I page 4 
Barr: Violent crime must be fought in U.S. 
By SARAH DORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
As violent -crime continues to grow more wanton, savage and senseless, America must utilize a dual fronted policy designed to both strengthen the crimin justice and preven the deve ment of ch criminals, said William Barr former 
U.S. Attorney General dur­ing the Bush administration, in a lecture and panel discussion yesterday. 
The gravity of the violent crime epidemic has reached its highest and most intolerable levels, he said, and law en­forcement is the panacea that must be used to restore safety. 
"There is nothing more af­fecting to our lives as Americans than crime," Barr said. "We must reintegrate law enforcement into the commu­nity as a whole to solve the problem." 
The proposal that a root 
causes approach, which fo­cuses on rehabilitation through social policy pro­grams, should be used as an alternative to law enforcement in fighting violent crime, is invalid and ineffective, he said. 
"It is a false dichotomy in public debate," said Barr. "Such programs are a 15-20 year proposal and people need protection today." 
"Efforts to deal with root causes are strangled by vio­lence." 
The chief component con­tributing to violent crime is that the state criminal justice systems are broken, he said, which has created a system unable to hold its most violent, chronic offenders. 
To mend this predicament, Barr proposed four eh)ments key to criminal justice system reform. Effective laws at the state level, proper financial re­sources, specific measures fo­cusing on the chronic, violent offender, and additional com­munity-assisting programs are crucial to reform. 
"The problem is that the sys-
see BARR I page 4 
Sheehan: U.S. must confront Vietnam 
BySUZY FRY 
Assistant News Editor 
Despite recent efforts to rec­oncile relations between the United States and Vietnam, Americans must not forget or escape response to this war, said Neil Sheehan, the 1988 Pulitzer Prize winning author of "The Bright Shining Lie." 
"We must come to terms with Vietnam; we must redeem the lives of the 58,000 lost," said Sheehan, who was a journalist during the Vietnam War. "If we 
• 
see PIKE, page 6 

• 
see VETERANS, page 6 


don't, Vietnam will be a wasted war. The truth must be con­fronted." 
"When U.S. soldiers returned home from World War II, they brought victory," he said. "During Vietnam, we thought we were infallible -we could do no wrong." 
According to Sheehan, no American president ever con­fronted the reality of the situa­tion; every action and decision was based upon the Cold War illusion of the communist threat to humanity. 
"To Secretary of State Dean Acheson and every other American political or military leader at the time, world poli­tics was either black or it was white -there were no shades of gray. Ho Chi Minh repre­sented a communist nation at­tempting to gain more com­munist territory. 
"However, as we now know, Vietnam was communist for nationalistic reasons. They were not there to please Moscow." 
Sheehan added that this in­stance of "shaded politics" was quite similar to Tito's break from Stalin. "The U.S. saw this, and Vietnam, as an aberration and wasn't taken very seriously -everything was still black and white." 
Americans see themselves as just and benevolent people, al­ways the defender of good in the battle against evil, accord­ing to Sheehan. "To under­stand this reasoning, war must be looked at in the American, historical context. All wars were good, moral crusades, unifying experiences, and this was always true even for the Confederates after the Civil War. But during World War II, we created a state of outstand­ing military force and then per­petuated our messianic purpos­es because of the communist threat from the Soviet Union." 
"We were capable of running an overseas empire. We were self-confident and infallible." 
However, Americans took for granted during World War II that they had an understanding of their enemies and that their leaders had imagination, ac­cording to Sheehan. During Vietnam, this sense of reality was replaced by arrogance and self-perpetuation. Hence, no president during Vietnam ever had the opportunity to act ra­tionally -everything was based upon the communist threat and illusion, he said. 
"Historically, the same prob­lem is seen from the Puritans to the Prohibitionists to President Wilson's League of Nations: America never created an intel­lectual mechanism to deal with conflict. 
I
"The Vietnamese resistance 
j
of the United States showed us just how out of whack our sys­tem of checks .and balances 
1 
was, militarily and politically," jhe added. "We were on the l road to an authoritarian state -Watergate was just one example of this plot against the constitution. Vietnam made us realize this; it could have been 1 a catastrophe." 
This tendency to perpetuate 
l 
1 
see VIETNAM I page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Anti-depressants are not the answer 
Oh, the times they are---...........~-­depressing. There is a pluthora of subjects to be depressed about at this time of the semester. Finals are looming on the horizion like German panz­er divisions before a blitzkrieg. The usual weather is cold, and cloudy, with a distinct lack of change. Tests seem to become harder and harder with less time to prepare for them. The dining halls have shifted out of alumni/football weekend food quality. Pick any reason. 
Despite the seemingly depressing conditions that many of us endure these days, depression is a serious problem for many Americans. Unlike the shifting and tempoary bouts with the blues that we all suffer as we go through life, chronic depression leaves a person in a con­stant state of grey. 
Although there have been several medications for the chronically depressed person for many years, one has stepped out into the spotlight and recently taken center stage. 
Prozac, a small blue and white capsule, has been changing the lives of many people for over live years. There is a estimated live million people who have been helped by Prozac, and as many as 900,000 to 950,000 prescriptions are filled by druggests per month. 
Although there have been discoveries of side effects origionally not anticipated, Prozac main­tains the lead as being one of the more popular depression relieving drugs for the chronically depressed. 
Unlike many anti-depressents, which release tailored chemicals into the brain, Prozac works its magic by regulating levels of serotonin in the brain. Serotonin is partially responsible for the communication between nerve cells in the brain, and has been dubbed by some physicians as one of the "mood chemicals". The drug's effect is even and balenced providing steady consistant effectiveness, thereby making it very popular with patients. 
However, that is not the only reason why Prozac is so popularm Many claim that it makes them a better, more active and social person. Although some recipants do not respond to the effects of Prozac, and many other patients feel that the drug does nothing to improve their character, a large proportion o the users report a "transformation" from their old, huddled self to a newer, brighter person. 
What we have here is a drug that, ideally, could create a new personality for people who respond to Prozac, even if they don't suffer from the effects of depression. One could, before that big interview or that dream date, pop a Prozac and suddenly become Mr. Saturday Night, instead of the "normal" person they are. 
Behind this idea lies many questions. Is it drug abuse to allievate the problems of a mun­dane meloncholy self? Is it wrong to -in essence-become someone new, in order to recieve a advantage that their "old self' would not have? Is it fair to pull Prozac from the shelves, despite the many millions of people who benefit from both it's anti-depressent effect as well as the new life gained because of the invigorating effects on their character? 
In a country where you can alter everything about yourself, from new clothing and altered bodies to new faces and different eye colors, will the soul the next to fall a slave to fashion? 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Emily Hage Christopher Mullins David Clairmont Vivian Gembara 
Sports Accent Jason Kelly Bevin Kovalik Viewpoint Kenya Johnson Allison Ebel 
Lab Tech Graphics Eric Ruethling Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday 
except during exam and vacation period.!.. The Obsc:rvcr is a member of 
rhe Associared Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Drug lord killed by Columbian security 
BOGOTA, Colombia Washington, Stephen Greene, acting administrator of the 
Pablo Escobar, the ruthless leader of a global cocaine Drug Enforcement Administration, said the shooting sent empire, died in a rooftop shoot-out with police and sol-a message to drug traffickers. "No matter how powerful diers Thursday that ended a 16-monthr--~----":"""""""-----........,they are, no matter how much influ­
hunt for one of the world's most wanted  200 miles  ence they say they have, no matter how  
men.  Escobar and a bodyguard were  ES  much money they have, they are not  
shot dead  at  a  two-story home in  200 km  immune to being pursued by legitimate  
Medellin, the city that served  as the  Cwibbt'an Sea  governments," he said. Greene said  
base for his trafficking network. The  Escobar was "a narcoterrorist of the  
Defense Ministry said a joint team  first order." Escobar had been hunted  
police and soldiers swept into the house,  not only by the security force but by a  
where Escobar had apparently been  vigilante  squad  called  People  
hiding for several weeks. Escobar and  Persecuted By Pablo Escobar (PEPES),  
his bodyguard ftred on the troops, who  VENEZUELA which had murdered several of his  
returned lire and killed them both, the  associates and threatened his family.  
ministry said. Escobar was scrambling  Soldiers and police also killed some of  
over the building's rooftop, trying to  Escobar's top lieutenants during the  
escape, when the exchange of fire  search. Just three days ago, the drug  
occurred, said Gen. Octavio Vargas,  COLOMBIA  lord's wife and two children flew to  

assistant director of the national police. "They offered resistance and died on the spot," said Prosecutor General Gustavo de Greiff. De Greiff said a $8.7 million reward offered by the United States and Colombia for Escobar's cap­ture would not be paid, because the information that led authorities to him came from government intelligence sources. Escobar was killed by members of a 3,000-man police and army force that had hunted for him since he escaped from prison in July 1992. Escobar's mother, Mermilda Gaviria, identified her son's body an hour after the shoot-out, authorities said. "It's the triumph of law over crime," said Andres Pastrana, a prominent senator, said of Escobar's killing. "Escobar ended up being a sym­bol of violence and narco-terrorism," Pastrana said. "Now the country can begin to live more peacefully." In. 
White House hopes for Korea's best 
WASHINGTON 
After a string of foreign policy setbacks from Bosnia to Somalia, President Clinton is struggling to defuse a tense showdown with communist North Korea with a mixed basket of carrots and sticks. Facing an unpredictable adversary with one of the world's largest armies, it's a grave test for a president still getting his footing in for­eign policy. "It's probably the most serious problem fac­ing the country because of the possible consequences," said Brent Scowcroft, who was national security adviser to former President Bush. "If North Korea develops a nuclear device and we don't do anything about it, I think it is almost inevitable that we will soon see a nuclear Japan and maybe a nuclear South Korea," Scowcroft said. "Those are big developments. That kind of an Asia we don't want to have happen." While the United States emphasizes it wants a diplomatic solution, North Korea is talking tough. It says it will never yield to pressure and that it's prepared for war or sanctions. Any conflict would put at risk 37,000 American troops stationed in South Korea. While pressuring North Korea to allow international inspections of its nuclear facilities, the United States is worried that pushing too hard might backfire, with the Pyongyang government pulling out of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Clinton has offered North Korea a package of incentives to allow limited inspections, including financial aid and cancellation of U.S.-South Korean military exercises. But there's no sign that strategy has worked. So far, there's been no official response -although with North Korea, back channel talks often are more important than public pronounce­ments. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, at a NATO meeting in Brussels, Belgium, said that if North Korea continues to drag its feet, the next step would be to seek economic sanctions from the United Nations. 
INDIANA Weather 
Friday, Dec. 3 
Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Via Associated Press GraphicsNet C1993 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Dec. 3. 
FRONTS: 
........-..--...A....A... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H  L  Dallas  69  40  Miami  75  61  
Atlanta  63  39  Denver  51  30  Minneapolis 29  10  
Boston  44  35  Honolulu  83  70  New Orleans 71  37  
Chicago  35  25  London  55  48  New York  48  36  
Columbus  39  25  Los Angeles 72  56  Philadelphia 46  32  

Germany seeking political asylum after 
the government threatened to stop pro­
tecting them. They were turned away, 
BRAZIL ~ad _returned to Bogota and were stay-
mg m a luxury hotel under army pro­
tection. The vigilante squad is believed 
to be composed of members of the rival 
Cali drug cartel, disenchanted former 
AP Medellin cartel members and police avenging the deaths of officers slain by the cartel. At one time, Escobar's drug trafficking gang was the world's biggest exporter of cocaine. But after his escape from prison, his empire was splintered by bloody internal rivalries and attacks by vigilantes and security forces. The rival Cali cartel took over as the world's main suppli­er of cocaine. If Escobar's death leads to the Medellin cartel's collapse, the Cali cartel and other competitors are likely to try to pick up the Medellin business. 
Air war architect investigated by Pentagon 
WASHINGTON 
Investigators for the Pentagon and Air Force have found that one of the service's top generals tried to use undue influence to affect promotions of other officers, a senior Pentagon official said Thursday. Air Force Secretary Sheila Widnall is considering what action to take in response to the finding about Lt. Gen. Buster Glosson, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Actions available to the secretary range from rejecting the finding to ordering varied punishments, such as issuing a letter of reprimand or asking the three­star general to take an early retirement. Glosson was traveling Thursday and not immediately available for comment, an Air Force spokesman said. Widnall also was traveling. Glosson, who is the deputy chief of staff for plans and operations for the Air Force, gained notice as the primary strategist for the air war in the Persian Gulf. 
Witnesses contradict Tailhook testimony 
NORFOLK, Va. 
Two military officers who attended the 1991 Tailhook convention testified today that they saw the chief of naval operations there the night that dozens of women say they were assaulted. The witnesses contradicted testimony early this week by the chief himself-Adm. Frank Kelso II -and other high-ranking officers. The testimony came at a pretrial hearing for Navy Cmdrs. Thomas Miller and Gregory Tritt, who contend that Tailhook charges against them should be dismissed. They argue that Kelso, who appointed the admiral overseeing the cases, has a per­sonal stake in the prosecutions because he was at the party where women say they were sexually assaulted. 
Friday, December 3, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SM C to host NASCCU regional meeting 
By Myrna Maloney 
News Writer 
The National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities (NASCCU) will hold a regional meeting in the Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's this Saturday from 10-4 p.m., according to Ann Grant, regional director of NASCCU. 
NASCCU is an organization of students who foster communi­cation between Catholic schools as well as promote Catholic higher education in the United States, said Campus Ministry Director Melissa Whelan. 
"This weekend, our goal is to make people think about gen­der issues in today's society through guest lectures," said Whelan. 
Speakers will include University of Notre Dame se­niors Frank Flynn and Michael Schmiedeler, who wili lecture on what it means to be a Catholic college. 
Phyllis Kaminski, Assistant Professor of Religious Studies at Saint Mary's, will speak on the Catholic Church and Patrick Pierce, Saint Mary's Assistant Professor of Political Science will relate his research on women who campaign for polit­ical offices, Whelan said. 
All students are welcome to attend the lectures and discus­sions which will follow. 

Deck the tree in Pangborn Hall 
Sophomores Jennifer Griffiths and Kelly Cusick decorate their dorm's Christmas tree yesterday. 
SAB's 'Giving Tree' reaches out to South Bend children 
By HANNAH DUNN 
News Writer 
Traditional African religion, widely misunderstood bf Westerners, is a genuine faith derived from the environment into which Africans are born and which serves the same goals as Western religions, said Christophe Kougniazonde, who spoke yesterday on the topic of "animism" in the fourth of a five-part series on non­Christian religious systems. 
Kougniazonde, a graduate student in the Notre Dame Department of Government from Benin, West Africa, re­lated stories of traditional African religions which ex­plained Africans' mode of con­ceiving the supernatural in or­der to dispel misconceptions regarding these systems. 
Kougniazonde called for an allowance for diversity and de­fined multiculturalism as "a school where we learn about each other and ourselves." 
Though this chat was publi­cized as a discussion on the re­ligion known as "animism," Kougniazonde expressed a dis­satisfaction with this term. He said that it has often been de­fined as simply "a belief held by primitive peoples, a tendency to see a soul in everything that ex­ists." 
With this definition, "a bias has been written into the very notion of animism," stated Kougniazonde. He affirmed that animism is not a specificity of Africa, but a necessary state of behavior for all societies as they develop. 
A better definition of tradi­tional African religion, he said, would be "a belief in spiritual beings concerned with human affairs and capable of interven­ing in those affairs." 
Kougniazonde compared 
Africans' assignment of spiri­tual qualities to many elements of the natural world to the Catholic notion of the "patron saints" to illustrate his point that African religion is not unique in its need for worship. 
According to Kougniazonde, many Westerners believe that Africans worship only totems and do not believe in gods. As a result, traditional African re­ligion has been dismissed as "voodoo" or "fetishism," he added. 
In actuality, Africans believe in a supreme god and counter­part goddess as the top of a hierarchy of a pantheon of gods, he said, adding that the supreme being is believed to be uncreated, omnipotent, and omniscient. 
Kougniazonde also discussed a singularity of African religion: the existence of syncretism, a combining of different tenets of various religions. As an exam­ple, he said that he is a bap­tized Roman Catholic who still has roots in traditional religion. 
He concluded his discussion by re-emphasizing, "African re­ligion is not a bizarre belief in some bizarre spirits," defending its legitimacy among world reli­gions. He added that Africa should not be a battlefield for conversion to outside faiths such as Christianity or Islam . 
.~;lsmmD fOR THf DIRfOOR'S fORTNIGHT 1993 CANNfS filM ff5TIVAl "ABSORBING AND RELENTLESS... A.l\er watching this Film &bout &young African American man trying to bre&k. out of his existence a.a &hustler on the mean streets of W&tts you m!ght feela.alf you've done &tour of duty. Welcome to L.A.-the other L.A." ·Jlmm Jlllilon. D!TA!l..IIIAG!Zll! [I]~~~o.' •  
CINEMA AT THE SNITE L_FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45  
The 0 bserver is now accepting applications for the following General Board position: Viewpoint Editor  
Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduate or graduate student is encouraged to apply. The editor is responsible for the contents ofthe Viewpoint section, from letters to columns to cartoons. Applicants should have good management and interpersonal skills. To apply, submit a personal  

statement and resume to David Kinney by Monday, December 6, 1993. Call David Kinney at 631-4542o1 Rolando de Aguiar at 631-4541 with questions about the position or the application. 
Speaker defends African religion 
By BETSY FUERSTENBERG 
News Writer 
The Student Activities Board (SAB) at St. Mary's is expanding their program to provide more than just social events this Christmas by sponsoring a ser­vice program in an effort to get the St. Mary's community more involved with the South Bend community. 
"We wanted to give the St. 
Mary's community a way to reach out to the children of South Bend," said St. Mary's senior and organizer of The Giving Tree, Jill Hotek. 
"Too many times we get so caught up in what's happening in our own lives, especially now around finals, that we forget about those less fortunate than ourselves. We are so blessed to be where we are that doing something like this is the least we can do." 
The program, called The Giving Tree, aims at giving gifts to the Infant-Toddler program of Madison Center here in South Bend, according to SAB member Heidi Deckelmann. 
The Madison Center is a state funded organization that sup­plies services on a need basis, she said, adding that when the Early Childhood Development 
r--------------------------, Specialist contacted SAB, many ADVENT PENANCE SERVICE members saw it as an oppor­
tunity for on-campus students Tuesday, December 7, at 10 p.m. in the Basilica to give something back to the 
community. 
·Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C., presider A Christmas tree has been 
put up in the entrance of ,~~iiiiii~~iii~jji~~~~i~~~r Haggar Hall. The tree is deco­
rated with 55 ornaments, each

RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 
with the name of a child on it. 
Anyone wanting to partici­pate in The Giving Tree may take one of the ornaments and buy the child a Christmas pre­sent. There is no set price range and the gift need not be wrapped. The ornament must be attached to the gift and returned before Dec. 15. 
SAB is hopeful about the re­sponse to their first service pro­gram. 
"It is important for students to show their support in order to continue programs like these," sophomore Anne Herrman said. 
"I think it is a wonderful op­portunity for us to get involved, " said Herrman. 
"Giving to others is one of the most important aspects of Christmas. It's what Christmas is all about. " 
"We are keeping the program on a small scale, but if the response is good I hope to see programs like this one ex­panding and continuing in the future," said Hotek. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 3, 1993 
and moral equation that must 
conveyed a solid satisfaction of 
fit for the crime problem in the 
its potential to lower crime. 
U.S.," said Dalton. "It is crimi­
Barr 
Barr admitted that the bill 
nal not to provide economic and 
was "better than no crime bill
continued from page 1 social opportunities to those 
at all" but lacking in the co­
who are suffering from the 
herency necessary to make it
tern is just not punitive to the 
social conditions in which they 
an effective tool. 
serious offender and I think 
are living." 
"Although it is essential that
that we can afford to put these 
Kmiec argued that the federal 
we make the kind of investment 
elements into effect to remedy 
government should stop dis­
that the Senate is making [the
it," said Barr. 
placing the church and com­
bill has a proposed $2.3 billion
In the long term, however, 
munity organizations, which he 
budget over its five year peri­
law enforcement cannot do the 
referred to as "smaller sover­
job by itself, he said. 
eigns" that are attempting to 
"We should still be willing to 
halt violent crime. 
try new approaches in the root ·Student
"The problem is that smaller 
causes area," said Barr. 
sovereigns refuse to assert 
continued from page 1 
"The agenda over time must 
themselves and are dormant,"
be broader than enforcement­
he said. "The federal govern­were focused enough. 
it must include a vital strength­
ment must get out of the way." "At our hall council it didn't
ening of the nation's moral 
In opposition to Barr's earlier have much of an effect. Maybe
fiber, and for this we need to 
emphasis on a strictly law (Flynn) should come with a spe­
rely more on private organiza­
enforcement approach to curb­cific agenda that he wanted our
tions to fill the gap rather than 
ing violent crime, McCullough opinion on," said Shannon
government agencies." 
advocated that investment in Brennan, a Pasquerilla East
Barr's lecture was followed 
education is the more neces­sophomore.
by a panel discussion where he, 
sary, effective alternative. However, Brennan said that
Hev. Richard Dalton, director of 
"Society's expectations have some members of her hall
the Southern Christian 
changed, but the schools' have council were not aware that he
Leadership Conference's anti­
not," he said. "Hiring police of­was coming, and may not have
drug program, Douglas Kmiec, 
ficers and building prisons been prepared to offer input: 
Law School professor and for­
won't solve the problem-we Cara Marrone, a Lyons
mer Assistant Attorney General, 
need to invest more money in sophomore, saw the same prob­
and George McCullough, princi­
education than we are in the lem at her hall council meeting
pal of Riley High School, dis­
penal system." with Flynn. 
cussed how to best implement 
School-business partnerships "He was really open to ideas
plans to curb violence. 
and vocation training, and suggestions and he went
Government, universities and 
McCullough suggested, should over what they have been do­
churches must come together to 
be utilized to curb the rapidly ing. It shows potential... (and) I
address crime's systemic caus­
rising violent crime rate. think he was good, but no one 
es if America is truly serious 
When questioned on their in­really had anything (to pro­
about the problem, said Dalton. 
terpretation of the Senate's pose)," she said. 
"There is a social, economic, 
Crime Bill. none of the panelists In terms of fulfilling their 
od], it is driven purely by politi­cal interests, and has no coher­ent philosophy behind it," he said. 
But Dalton expressed dis­agreement. 
"Its too extensive in terms of investment when law enforce­ment is not the solution," he said. "We need to instead focus on an urban policy centered on social and economic reform." 
Although Kmiec voiced agree­ment witp some aspects of the bill, many important provisions are omitted. 
Most notable among these omissions are the lack of both a "drug czar" and coordinated drug strategy, he said. 
The lecture was presented by The Federalist Society and the Black Law Students Association of the Notre Dame Law School. 
campaign promise to address campus social life, Flynn and Wellmann have backed efforts to gauge students' opinions of parietals extensions. The re­sults of a survey conducted ear­lier in the semester were pre­sented to the Campus Life Council (CLC) last month. The CLC subsequently requested a more scientific measurement of student support. A second sur­vey will soon be distributed to students. 
Multiculturalism and finan­cial aid are being addressed by specific student government commissions. 
Within the student life de­partment, a position has been devoted entirely to multicultur­alism and minority concerns. Currently Mona Babauta, mi­nority concerns commissioner, is planning to distribute an ed­ucational publication in the spring and is also working on activities to celebrate Martin Luther King day. 
"A lot of (minority students) feel that the Notre Dame com­munity in general is ignorant of the hardships they go through. A lot of them think there should 
be more education," said Babauta. 
Financial aid, a long-standing student concern, will be dis­cussed in -student government's upcoming report "Renewing the Mission: A Student Perspective of Notre Dame's Catholic Character." 
"We thought it fell under the purview of the Catholic Character report because ser­vice is a very large part of our Catholic ministry," said Cathy Miller, executive coordinator of student government reports. 
"In addition to serving the poor, as a Catholic University, we have a mission to educate the poor as well," she added. 
Although the committee does not have any concrete recom­melldations as of yet, commit­tee members are organizing hall forums to get student input on financial aid and other criti­cal issues. 
According to Cassidy, this is one of the areas where student government "can have the biggest influence." 
"They've got real guts going after that because it's a tough topic," said Cassidy. 
Vietnam 
continued from page 1 
the "victory attitude" of World War II is still present, when one considers President Bush's proclamation of a statute of limitations on Vietnam and President Clinton's avoidance of the draft, said Sheehan. 
"A statute of limitations should never be declared on Vietnam. The lessons were too important. We should never 
Govt 
continued from page 1 
said Kirk. "There are just too many difficulties with it." 
Kirk cited the high cost of constructing a permanent stor­age facility on campus and the question of the building's use during the school year. Students also seem to be al­ready fairly organized in their current efforts to get their be­longings to an area storage company. 
"Sure, [storage) is a hassle, but it is only a hassle two days a year," said Kirk. 
1994-95 RA APPLICATIONS 
Are Now Available Office of Student Affairs 315 Main Building 
Through Friday, January 14, 1994 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
play God with the people of other nations who never want­ed our presence to begin with," said Sheehan. 
"To forget Vietnam is to for­get the fallibility of humanity, and this is unacceptable to the American nation," concluded 
THE KIND 
OF FOOD 
THAT BUILT AMERICA. 
We've got your hearty dinners rif'hl here. Pot roast. MPatloaj: Country FriPd Steak. SPrvPd with your clwicP oftwo vPgPtablPs, fresh bread, All-You-CarP-To-Eat Soup, Salmi & Fruit Bar. All for onP low price. 
HEARTY HOMESTYLE DINNERS 

99 
Offer valid at participating locations.
r---------, 
I $1~00 OFF II ANY HOMESTYLE DINNER I AFTER 5:00 P.M. 
I Offer gm"J al partici{HUing .'ilumeys l<K"<UuJmthm/Je<·embtor 23, 1993. Not ,.,uJ I with any other coU{XJll or dt.~cowUeti offer. /.unu oTJR coUfHJII per pt'fSOfl JH'f m.ul. 
--~0~~--J SHONEY~ ··~~ 
Sheehan. 
Sheehan was one of the fea­tured speakers of this week­end's conference "The United States and Vietnam: from War to Peace" at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Editor 
Business or Economics major preferred. The News depart­ment is also accepting applications for 
Associate News Editor 
For either position submit a two-page personal statement and resume to Meredith McCullough at the Observer office b Monday, December 6 at 5 p.m.Questions? Calll-5323. 
I 
~ 
Sinn Fein Details British 'Lies' on Eve ofAnglo-Irish Summit 
I 

The Observer/ Colleen Moore Seamus Deane, professor of English and Keough Chair in Irish Studies, spoke yesterday at Saint Mary's Haggar Hall. His stories told of growing up in Northern Ireland and were sponsored by the Ireland Program and the International Club of Saint Mary's. 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 
The Irish Republican Army has never offered a permanent cease-fire as a condition for ne­gotiations and never will, its supporters said Thursday in a rebuke to British claims about secret contacts. 
"They say that Irish republi­cans are ready to surrender. That is a lie," Gerry Adams, president of the Sinn Fein party, told a news conference here. "Our commitment to struggle is firm and un­daunted." 
That defiant message only added to the difficulties facing Irish leader Albert Reynolds and British Prime Minister John Major as they meet Friday in 
We Wish You the Best 
JM(CD) ~ JT~~~ 
Happy December Birthdays! 
Dublin to seek agreement on principles for bringing peace to Northern Ireland. 
More than 3,100 people have died in a quarter-century of po­litical and sectarian violence ­including a soldier shot dead by an IRA sniper on Thursday. 
Irish government sources told The Associated Press that Reynolds and Foreign Minister Dick Spring would push for Britain to adopt a key principle: recognition of the importance of eventual Irish unity. 

Britain continues to hammer on the principle that Northern Ireland will not be ejected from the United Kingdom against the wishes of its people -the ma­jority of them Protestants de­termined to stay British. 
"There is for us one funda­mental point: Northern Ireland's status as part of the United Kingdom will not change 
r------·-------------------------------~---. 
Chinese -Xmerican 1 Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge 1\.uthentic Szechuan, 
~l:t~~--~~ Mandarin & Hunan Cuisif.e 
. Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5 .95 Votcc.l Be:-.~ Banquet rooms available for up to 200 Orienwl Restaurant 
in Mkhiana by130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
Miclziana Nol{::.
-(next liJ Randall's Inn) 
==================~ 
:~rM_~/c; ~ ~~ ~u~ 
.........,___
NO Grads 

~~rc:ove
:D 

10:00 PM 
Jazz • Funk • Hip Hop • R&B 
vibe mixed as one 
9 Month Leases for S 3 Month Summer Leases 
LOCATED IN THE HEART 
OF EVERYTHING! 
Main St. between Edison & McKinley 
• 
Pool & Jacuzzi 

•Club 
House •Washer/Dryer 

• 
Microwaves 


2:oo. 4:30, 7:15, 9:45 !Piil­
liM 13URlON~ lflE NlGlfrMltRE 
~EfOltE (HR!iJM~ 
1:00, 3:00. 5:00, 7:00, 9:00 ~ 

without the freely expressed consent of the people of 1 Northern Ireland," Major said in the House of Commons Thursday. 
I 
The charges by Sinn Fein leaders Adams and Martin McGuinness were accompanied by more than 100 pages of doc­uments on eight months of dis­puted communications between the IRA-Sinn Fein leadership and British officials. 
Road. 
1:48 a.m. A University employee was ttanspol'ted by St)curlty ~o. St. Joseph Medical Center lor treatirient of hand injury, 9:06a.m.; A juvenile was apprehended nearthe Grace Hall bike rack by Security~ He was Issued atrespass warning letterand released lo a parent Investigation Is cootlnulng, 3:J5 p.m. AUnlverslty employ~ report­ed the theft of an evergreen tree from the north side of Fatima Retreat Center• 
.·. ~==-r--:.WEQ·~, DEC~.. 1 
~:14 p.m. A FiScher Graduate resident wa$JranspQrted by CQmm!lnity Ambulance tQ Sl Joseph Medical wltn back pain; 9:34p.m~ A W~Msh Hall resident report· ed receiving a harassing telephQne call. 
9:47 p.m. Two Flenner Hall residents reportedthat their wallets were stolen from their room. · 

REMINGTON COURT 
Pike: U.S. war memories underestimate Vietnam's progress 
By MICHAEL MARTIN 
News Writer 
Vietnam today is character­ized by an anticipation of change, but the perception in the United States is that it is in miserable shape due to our continued emphasis on the events of the Vietnam War, said Douglas Pike in his speech yes­terday, "Vietnam Update: Heport on a Hecent Visit." 
Vietnam "is doing well eco­nomically," and the Vietnamese have "let the (Vietnam) war go," according to Pike, but the people of the United States have worn the memory of the war as "an unhealable wound." 
Pike cautioned against this unhealthy overemphasis on the war, but admitted that he had no remedy other than treating Vietnam as significant in its own right. 
The nation, on the eve of the upcoming Vietnamese Communist Party National Conference, is experiencing the "rumblings of change, some ominous, some exaggerated, but much of it commendable," according to Pike, who has just returned from a fifteen day visit to the country. 
Pike, who is the Director of the Indochina Archive at the University of California at Berkeley, characterized the conference as an unusual step between the normally sched­uled Grand Congresses of the Communist Party. He said this conference was made neces­sary by the "unforeseen devel­opments" since the Seventh Party Congress in 1991, such as the boom in rice production and exports. 

Conference addresses veterans' issues in Vietnam, American relationship 
By ETHAN HAYWARD New$Wri(er 
We must understand the past and provide healing and understanding for the future if we are to reach a reconcilia· tion between the United States and Vietnam, said Dr. Chao Le in introducing the opening ses­sion of a conference entitled "The United States and Vietnam: From War to Peace" yesterday. 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh was one of the dis­cussion's main speakers. He served on Gerald Ford's Presidential Clemency Board, whose mission was to decide whether or not to grant amnesty to Vietnam veterans who had experienced either military or legal problems. 
Hesburgh explained that the Board ultimately opted to grant general amnesty to all veterans because of the com­plexities and complications of individual cases. Above all he stressed the need to grant respect and forgiveness to Vietnam veterans as part of the "forgiving business." 
James Brazee, presidel)t of the Vietnam Veterans of America and a Notre Dame graduate, focused on the unre­solved issue of POW/MIA's. His organization has instituted a policy called the Veterans' 

"The single word for the psy­chological environment in Vietnam is 'uncertainty,"' said Pike. "The purpose of the con­ference is to set a consensus" for the nation's direction in the near future. 
The conference will address what Pike called the "long view of the Vietnam situation." The reviews of Vietnam's progress have been mixed, with obser­vations of rural poverty and high unemployment counter­acting the general feeling that the economy is doing well. 
The major dilemma of econ­omy to be addressed at the con­ference is the distribution of development, which is a "geo-

Whatjust Keeps Papping Up? 
Happy 21st 
graphic and systemic problem," said Pike. 
The division of benefits among the Northern. Central, and Southern sections of Vietnam has taken on greater importance now that Vietnam has greater access to International Monetary Fund loans and can "invest in infras­tructure and rural health," Pike observed. 
The conference will also ad­dress the quest for a social con­sensus in terms of what the society stands for, where soci­ety is going, and how to get there, according to Pike. 
Observing bitterness over postwar conditions in the south Initiative, which provides for an exchange of information between Vietnamese and American veterans of the war. 
He explained that eyewitness testimony. rather than sani­tized government documents, provides for a more open and accurate access to information regarding the whereabouts or fates of POWIMIA's. He added that the policy's interest lies in accountability and reconcilia­tion and not placing blame. 
Brazee concluded that the measure would "place the power of reconciliation in the 
• hands of veterans themselves," and "empower them to have a direct effect on the outcome of this issue." 
and the dashed postwar expec­tations in the north, Pike char­acterized relations between north and south as a "Cold War never before imaginable." 
"The north and the south must rise or fall together; there cannot be a zero-sum game," Pike said as he warned against provincial politics. 
The final question to be re­solved has to do with changing political leadership, said Pike. Rumors abound among the cit­izens of Vietnam as to how these changes will play out, most of which predict that half of the cabinet will be replaced, while others assert that three new Politburo positions will be 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Must have knowledge of Macintosh computers and their applications. Please turn your resumes in to the Observer office by December 10. Contact Patrick Barth at 631-5303 for more information. 
Celebrate the h beautifully designed collectible ornaments featuring the University of Notre Dame 

An exclusive offer from Easter Seals and the Charleston Mint 
Each ornament comes with its own numbered and signed certificate of authenticity and is protected by a jacket in the university's colors. The ornament is "twistable" for a J,Dimensional effect. Ornaments are approximately 3"x3". 
Ornaments are available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, all Majerek's Hallmark locations, Princess Flowers & Gifts, Will's Jewelry, Will's Cards & Gifts, Lynn's Hallmark (Elkhart) and directly from the Indiana Easter Seal Society (I ~800~966~4003). 
University of Notre Dame Ornaments ($1500 each) 1993,Library Mural 1992,"Grotto" 1991 , Sacred Heart Church 1990,Golden Dome 
Proceeds provide programs for individuals with disabilities through Easter Seals in Indiana. 
These are limited edtion ornaments. They will be sold on afirst~come basis . 
formed, one of which is to be filled by a woman. 
Pike emphasized the deeper question of political change, saying that the "internal secu­rity temperature" is "presently high" due to dissent from both social and economic points of view, and thus it has forced the government to pay attention and address the questions of reform, according to Pike. 
There is an aversion on the part of the government to the "peaceful evolution" of the sys­tem from a one-party to a mul­tiparty system, he said. The reason that this evolution is undesirable is because, as one government official said, "all of the previous sacrifices [in terms of lives and resources) would be deemed a waste," he added. 
The question, however, is not if compromise will take place, but when it will become neces­sary, said Pike. A point will be reached when further economic advance will be blocked by the lack of this political reform, he added, pointing out that the longer they stall, the more probable this scenario becomes. 
~~26\IJAYS -\o het..p SA'~e'\1.\e ~l2-ir\ CALl. l-~-'1-89-8887. 

YOU! 
Angels • AL YSON • Attic Dolls • Bears • Bags • Baskets • Cards • Candles • Calligraphies • CHAD • Christmas Notes • Computer Paper • Coloring Books • Crayons • Dried Flowers • Eggnog • Taffy • FarSide Cards• Books and Mugs • Great Gifts • Heavenly Handicrafts • Incense • IRISH VILLAGE • Irish Sweatshirts • Jax • Jolly Good T yme • Keepsakes • Lotions • Licorice • MISTLETOE • Mugs • MICHELLE • Notecards • Nuts • Oh! Ornaments! • Photo Frames • Quaint Mini Quilts • Red Ribbons • ROSES • Sachets • Shampoos • Soaps • Stocking Stuffers • SUZY ZOO Cards • Secret Santa Gifts • Toys • Ten Cent Candy • UPS! UPS! UPS! • Victorian Dolls • V/MC • Wax Potpourri Wreaths • X-tra Neat Stuff• Zip Codes and Zones for UPS! 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
LaFortune Student Center Lower Level 10:00,5:00 Monday,Saturday 631,6714 
• '• • • • • • ., '" ., -. • • • • • • • ,. • • • • • • • • • • w • r r • • • • • r J 
BUSINESS 
December 3, 1993 page 7 
Chretien: Motivation and energy key for entrepreneurs 
Canada to 
By TRACY CRINION trust in the business world to Business Wrirer help you with the formula." "Be careful what you go Having age on your side along into," he warned. "Know thatsign NAFTA 
with energy and drive are the there's a long term market for biggest keys to starting your you and your product." 
Associated Press 
own business, according to en­Eventually, Larson focused 
OTTAWA 
trepreneur and inventor Ray his company on one element of 
Canadian Prime Minister Larson, founder of Larson In­the electronics industry­Jean Chretien announced today dustries, Inc. miniature welding. This is the that his government will sign Larson, the keynote speaker foundation of Larson's wealth the North American Free at the Entrepreneur Club meet­today. Trade Agreement on Jan. 1, ing Tuesday night, spoke about Larson, now retired, offered removing the last major obsta­his personal life and gave several tips to young en­
advice on what it takes to start trepreneurs to aid in the build­
cle to the pact's implementa­
your own business and keep it ing of their own businesses.
tion. 
running successfully. "If you want to start a busi­
The deal, which would elimi­
Larson was spotted by elec­ness, start while you're young­
nate trade barriers among the 
tronics investors while still a while you've got the energy and
United States, Canada and 
student and encouraged to start the drive." 
Mexico, would create the 
his own business in a growth He also suggested concentrat­
largest free trade zone in the industry like electronics. Ac­ing on one product before world. NAFTA would cover 360 cording to Larson, this was his diversifying. million consumers. first mistake that led him into Balance is an essential com­Chretien took office last over 19 years of debt. ponent in the entrepreneur's month after running on a plat­"I started out in the wrong life, according to Larson. form demanding revision of field," said Larson, "I chose "Don't work 80-90 hours a electronics because it seemed week," he said. "Try to keep a
certain aspects of the trade 
exciting to me." balance in your life and to keep
agreement. He had told 
Larson advised the En­focused so you have time for
President Clinton that his sig­
trepreneur Club members to family, children and exercise." 
nature on the agreement was 
start businesses in fields they He added that it's important
anything but a sure thing. 
were educated to work in. not to make your business the 
NAFTA subsequently was ap­
He blamed his initial failure end-all and the be-ali. 
he said, "Every entrepreneur marketing experience. 
proved by the U.S. Congress, 
to electronics pricing wars be­"Don't let your business 
should have a dream. Work it The Entrepreneur Club is of­
passing in the Senate on Nov. tween the U.S. and Japan. become a hobby as well as a 
through. Concentrate on one fering a seminar, "Marketing
20 after scoring a narrow vic­Pricing was another major career. Keep a balance 
area until success is achieved. Strategies for Your Small Busi­
tory in the House of cause of Larson's economic between social life and business 
do what you want and do it ness" on Thursday, December Representatives. struggle. In order to price effi­life." well." 9. Other items discussed at the "It's not a perfect situation ... ciently, Larson suggested "find­Most importantly, Larson told Larson graduated from Pur­all-club meeting were an up­
ing out the costs you will incur. entrepreneurs to stay with an
but I have to admit to you that due University with a degree in coming Chicago trip and officer 
Get a pricing formula and stick idea.
I'm very happy this morning," mechanical engineering and elections next semester. 
with it. Find someone you can "Stay focused on a dream,"
Chretien said today. The prime minister failed to get changes he sought on ener­
British couple sentenced to prison for insurance fraud 

gy provisions. But he did get agreement from Clinton and the Mexican government to begin up to two years of talks on setting common rules for trade subsidies and the dump­ing of goods at low prices. 
There is also agreement by the United States, Mexico and Canada for a joint statement that the trade deal won't force Canada to make large-scale exports of water. 
By GARRY MITCHELL 
Associated Press 
MOBILE 
A federal judge Thursday threw out a plea agreement and ordered a British con man to serve 17 years in prison and repay $50 million to those cheated in one of the nation's largest insurance scams. 
U.S. District Judge Richard Vollmer also ordered Alan Teale's wife, Charlotte C. Rentz of Georgia, to serve 13 years in prison for her role in bilking policyholders out of more than $72 million. 
When the couple pleaded guilty, the government recom­mended a 10-year sentence for Teale and a 6 112-year sentence for his wife. 
Teale, 63, juggled an interna­tional network of phony insur-
Spending up during holiday season 
By DAVE SKIDMORE Cynwyd, Pa. "It's starting to Store owners said consumers Associated Press feel like a real recovery." were buying higher-priced WASHINGTON Personal income rose 0.6 per­items, like cashmere sweaters Just in time for holiday shop­cent, the third increase in a and espresso makers, and elec­ping, Americans' incomes are row, to a seasonally adjusted tronics, appliances and other increasing in response to a annual rate of $5.47 trillion, "hard line" merchandise. gradually improving job mar­the Commerce Department said However, they appear reluctant ket. Thursday. to buy clothing unless the price 
Consumers spent liberally in is right. October, especially for big-tick­Consumer spending, mean­Consumer spending -which et items such as automobiles while, advanced for the seventh depends on job and income and appliances. New homes consecutive month, rising 0.8 growth -accounts for roughly also sold briskly, although more percent to a $4.47 trillion two-thirds of the economy. The slowly than the month before annual rate. big October advance supports when sales soared to a four­analysts' predictions of a year high. Separately, major retail fourth-quarter economic 
"People are certainly willing chains on Thursday reported growth rate of more than 4 to spend whatever increase in an encouraging burst of buying percent. That would more than pay they get and more," said over the Thanksgiving weekend double the average growth of economist Sandra Shaber of but mixed sales earlier in the 1.8 percent during the first The WEFA Group of Bala month. nine months of the year. 
MARKET ROUNDUP BUSINESS BRIEFS 
December 2, 1993 
9/1193 1011193 11/1J93 
ance corporations to finance a "It got out of hand..... We lavish lifestyle in Atlanta. have nothing left," a hand­cuffed Teale said as he sat in 
Victims of the scam ranged orange prison garb before the from millionaire athletes such judge. "I have a long standing as NFL quarterbacks Joe Christian belief that somehow Montana and Jim Kelly to oth­got lost." ers who were viewed as high­The couple had pleaded guilty risk policyholders, such as mer­to Alabama and Pennsylvania chants whose businesses were charges that were part of a 41­looted in the Los Angeles riots. count federal racketeering 
indictment. 
GM appeals fuel tank case 
By MARC RICE was one of the biggest in histo­Associated Press ry. ATLANTA 
"The trial ... became a 
General Motors Corp. has nationally televised show and, asked the state Supreme Court uncontrolled, turned into a tale to overturn the $105 million about other accidents, other awarded the parents of a crash trucks, other lawsuits ... and victim, arguing the jury was other extraneous events no one swayed by unsubstantiated evi­knew anything about," GM said dence about its pickup trucks. in an appeal filed Monday. 
A state jury in February Attorney James E. Butler Jr., found GM responsible for the who represented Moseley's death of Shannon Moseley, 17, parents in the trial, did not in a 1989 crash. The jury return a telephone call agreed the design of the truck's Wednesday seeking comment fuel tanks, which are mounted on the appeal. outside the frame, caused the truck to explode when it was The Supreme Court, the 
struck by a drunken driver. state's highest court of appeal, The award, including $101 has not yet scheduled a hear­million in punitive damages, ing on the case. 
au<:tiQn~d for 
to an investment grc,up; Ecli]~se· Holdings Inc. of e, Md•../Officlals said Thursday they hope to charge .other airlines to use 
Am'$1ogos. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, December 2, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE D,o.ME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OHICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin H.trdman 
News Editor................Meredith McCullough Vicwpoinl Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................••. Kenya Johnson Pho<o Editor .................................jake Peters Saint Mary's Edi<or.. ........... jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advcnising Managcr..•...•.....•........ Annc: Heroman Ad Design Manager......................Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director................................Brendan Regan Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the indepcndenr newspaper published by the studenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lie and Sainr Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­corials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spotts Editor, and Saim Mary's Editor. Commentaries, IC'nc:rs and Inside Columns pr~ent the:-views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Vicwpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free cxprcs!.ion of varying opinions through lcners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chicf 631-4542 Accen</Saint Mary's Managing Edi<orNicwpoinr 631-4541 Day Editor/Production Business Office 631-)313 Advertising Sports 631-4)43 Systems/OTS News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 
Dear Editor: 
Nieholas Perdiew's interpre­tation on the CODOII adver­tisement shows exactly why the ad was so dangerous. I will agree that the author does a very good job of mak­ing his mission look non hate­ful. However, one needs to look no further than to where the author refers to the cur­rent interpretation of the Holocaust as "monstrous lies" to realize that CODOH is a bigoted, Jew hating organiza­tion. 
I hope next time he will be more careful before allowing himself to be manipulated. 
Why does Perdiews suppose that an organization would devote all of its time to encouraging a debate over something most of the Western world, including the German government, agrees there is nothing to debate about? Why does he suppose that this organization would focus on soliciting funds from the major centers of educa­tion around the country? Could it be that CODOH is try­ing to blur the facts about one of the darkest chapters in the history of humanity? 
David Duke did an extreme­ly effective job of appearing to be mainstream in the 1992 election. The most effective way for a hater to manipulate his audience is to mask his ideas as something palatable, such as open debate. 
DOONESBURY 
JF K. .­ASSASS/NATION T'M.t.OR.\."'t..S 631-4540 
BOR/'V: NO'VEMBE.R. 2.2., \.963 631-5303 631-6900/8840 
631-8839 631-7471 
Don't get fooled by 'monstrous lie' 
However, the CODOII author slips when he claims the Holocaust museum contains "monstrous lies" and says there is no proof that one Jew was ever gassed. Does Perdiew suppose he chal­lenges the proof of gassing because he would really like to see proof out of curiosity, or because he wants to "show" that the gassings never happened? 
I will agree that in the advertisement CODOH never explicitly says that the Holocaust never happened. The author does a good job at making his message look palatable to the reader whose ideas about the Holocaust may be at the fringe. CODOH is probably very aware of the lack of a Jewish population here at Notre Dame. Why do you suppose, Nicholas Perdiew, that CODOH would send the advertisement here, to a bunch of Catholics? The CODOH ad is but the first step in attempting to make people forget. 
Notre Dame students dri­ving the KKK out of South Bend in the 1920's will always be a part of our cherished his­tory. However, sadly, many people want the memory of the Holocaust to fade. As the old saying goes: "Those who don't remember the past are condemned to repeat it." I will agree that the author never explicitly says he would like to see the Holocaust happen all over again, but the author's obvious position on the Holocaust is inherently hate­ful. 
If he wanted readers to hear the American GJ's stories of liberating the concentration camps, he would have spent time doing so. If he wanted readers to know the true sto­ries of concentration camp survivors, he would have told them. Instead, the author spends his time trying to make people forget what real­ly happened. 
The KKK has a right to burn crosses, but we do not offer them the North Quad as a place to do so. The neo-Nazis have a right to assemble, but we would never permit them to do so in the JACC. Under the current Supreme Court interpretation of Roe v. Wade, a woman has a right to an abortion, but it will never happen in this campus's infir­mary. CODOH has a right to hate Jews, but hopefully, we will never again permit any group to use our paper as a tool of racism, anti-Semitism, or any other type of hatred. 
I hope the next time Mr. Perdiew sees such an ad, he will read a little more closely, instead of reading what the author wants him to read. 
JEFF MONBERG Sophomore Cavanaugh Hall 
Go Irish, Beat Cornuskers; Come watch ND volleyball 
Dear Editor: Year in and year out, 
On behalf of the 1993 Nebraska lields one of the out­Fighting Irish volleyball team. I standing volleyiJall teams in the would like to invite all Notre country, and-while we defeat­Dame students, faculty and ed them earlier this season­staff to our NCAA Tournament we're sure to have our hands match at 2 p.m. Sunday in the full on Sunday. The support of JACC arena. Irish fans in all sports is always 
This is the first time Notre important, and we eould use Dame has hosted a match in plenty this weekend. the NCAA volleyball champi­Go Irish! Beat 'Huskers! onships, and we're excited abou the opportunity to play DEBBIE BROWN Nebraska and hopefully Head Coach advance to the final 16 at the Noire Dame Volleyball Team Mideast Hegional. 
Memorial Mass revealed the character ofND student body 
Dear Editor: much so that it seems unlikely 
I was struck by something I all or even most of them knew read in the Observer today, Mara Fox personally. This says namely that 2000 people at­a lot about the character of this tended the memorial mass for great University's student body: the late Mara Fox. most of those people attending 
We saw a similar outpouring probably went for the sole rea­of support and prayer two son that Mara Fox was a mem­years ago, after the deaths of ber of the ND family. Megan Beeler and Colleen Hipp. ANDREW DeKEVER 
What struck me is that 2000 Junior people is a lot of people, so Saim Edward's Hall 

Dictabelt, Z5years 8lf!P tJJe conspiracy community demonscrated lihat'.Beehive 
Woman"was nowhere OOM" Elm St. 
I rrty5elf havewritten two boo~ on·Beehive 
Woman;' conclusively 
placing her twoblocks 
from Dealey Plaza. And yet you persist! 
''Getyour facts first, and then you can distort them as much as you please." 
-Mark Twain 
Friday, December 2, 1993 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 
FRANK PIMENTEL HEARTS AND MINDS 
Get tough, get sober, and God will give you a second chance 

things might have happened words, consider taking the cure
But enough about me. My drinking that goes on. To wit, money has never been a prob­
had I been less lucky (indeed, before it's too late. And you
concern in writing this as an my first year of sobriety I got lem.
driving home was more than never know when it'll be too
observer of Notre Dame off and involved with a group of recov­I suppose you could call it ab­
once a mystery, etc.), my spirit late.
on over the last ten years is ering alcoholics and drug ad­sence of great adversity. These
began to die. I became terribly If you are an alcoholic (or
that the make-up of our school dicts at tiny Colorado College circumstances are obviously
pessimistic about the future, have a drinking problem since
just does not foster the road to (I'd guess the size of St. Mary's, ones which, if applicable, you
and increasingly concerned "alcoholism" can be a tough
alcoholic recovery. And that is with a student body academi­should be thankful for. 
about how this metastasizing thing to accept at first), I can't
ironic because, biblically speak-cally comparable to Notre Nevertheless, booze is an
drinking habit would ever end. promise you that getting sober 
. ing, drunkenness is every bit Dame's) that numbered roughly equal opportunity employer. No 
It seemed that I continued to won't be tough. It can be. But I 
the sin that the other "big ones" twenty or better. Here, among matter how great life has been,
blame other things which never can promise you that life will
are which I and others bandy both student bodies, I can count you can still be an alcoholic,
changed, or would change as get better than the hellhole
about on these pages. approximately 10. It simply and on your way to a life of
they had to; or I merely chalked you're mired in, and that you
Now I am not one who grates doesn't add up. misery, pain and death. The
it up to "liking to drink more can still have fun. I can promise
around alcohol or those who Many students in our law bottom line is that many suc­
than average." And on it went. you that there is a worldwide
enjoy a beer-in fact, I frequent school who went to college else­cessful, smart people are
Then, three years ago today group of people ready to show
Senior Bar, Coach's, etc. for so­where often comment on the drunks. I've met them. 
(as I write this, I came to a you how to live, and with whom 
cial reasons. Many of my homogeneity of our under­This then is what I encourage 
point where I knew fully that you would identify almost
friends drink responsibly, and I graduates (and law students as you to do. Consider how often
the drinking would, in fact, immediately. I can promise you
do not begrudge that. I imagine well). It seems undeniable. you blackout (i.e. don't remem­
never change. Instead, I would that God will give you a second
that if I could I would. One aspect of that likeness, I ber what happened for a period
have to in order to have any chance.
On the other hand, I know believe, is a pride-to-the-point­of time, or before you passed
chance to get better. That 
first hand that the number of of self-delusion. It comes with out). Ifit's happened, say, more 
meant abstinence one day at a Frank Pimentel is a 1987
students here who have con­having been "the best at ..." than twice, then I'd really give 
time, and it was a price I was Notre Dame graduate and cur­
fronted their own drinking all of one's life, and having it some serious thought. 
willing to pay. rently a third year student in
problems is rather pathetic come from families that by and If you drive drunk at all, ask
Three years later, by God's the Law School. 
considering the amount of large stayed intact where often yourself why. If you can•t imag­
abundant grace, I still am. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame helps prepare individuals for the real world outside 
Dear Editor: serve their patients, my school and chemistry classes, ques­values and ethics. ther assumed nor always wel­
As a student who chose to has greatly revamped its cur­tions of an ethical nature fre­When someone outside of comed. Some of my medical graduate a semester early, I riculum. Less emphasis is quently surfaced. I will never Notre Dame asked me about school classmates feel that thought that I would be one of placed on memorization, and forget the question on my the homogeneous nature of the there should be no mixture be­
the last people who would be more attention is paid to ethics, Freshman Honors Chemistry student body, this was the com­tween science and the humani­writing to the Observer after values, and morality in medi­final exam that asked us to ap­munality which I would de­ties. They believe that we as leaving Notre Dame. However, cine. We meet in discussion ply our chemistry knowledge to scribe: The Notre Dame com­physicians will heal, and the this is not the first nor the last groups much like the Core an argument for or against the munity is based on a shared philosophers will debate ethics. time I surprise myself with a groups of my undergraduate existence of God. interest in ethical, moral and As one student said, "We don't shift in opinion. sophomore year. Having gone to public school religious questions. tell our patients which stocks to 
My younger sister is begin­Although the organization of all of my life, I felt an apprecia­I invite my sister Debbie and invest in, so why should we ning her career under the gold­the groups is similar. the de­tion for the incorporation of her fellow classmates to take advise them on moral issues?" en dome, and I hope to share bates are markedly different. such issues into my educational advantage of this as much as Obviously, I feel that debates with her and her fellow under­Discussions of such topics were system. The understanding possible. Don't worry-analysis concerning morality and ethics graduates some of the wisdom practically givens at Notre among faculty and students of such questions does exist are extremely important, es­
that has accompanied my tran­Dame. In my Arts and letters seemed to be that education outside of Notre Dame. pecially in a field that deals sition to the "outside world." courses as well as my biology should be linked to a system of However, its importance is nei-with life, death, health, and 
Throughout my time at Notre Dame, I often heard references made to the homogeneous na­

Er.G. 
ture of the student body. some even chose to classify the cam­pus as a quasi-Disneyland, full of friendly people and welcom­ing smiles. 
While Walt Disney's succes­sors should not worry about losing their claim to the "Happiest Place on Earth," I believe there is an element of truth to this description. The "mystique" alluded to in Notre Dame literature no doubt in­corporates the harmony felt among the majority of students and faculty. In general, people, find their place at Notre Dame and want to stay there. 
I recently began medical school in Chicago. In order to produce physicians who better communicate, understand, and sickness. The coordinators of our new curriculum and a fair number of my classmates share this feeling. However, the per­centage of those who don't is striking compared to my under­graduate experience. 

Thus, my role has changed from that of an active partici­pant to more of an instigator. A close friend of mine who is a Notre Dame priest recently clarified for me that I am now a "missionary". As part of the "real world," I feel a greater respect for Notre Dame and the quality of students it attracts and develops. While I envy the four years they my younger sis­ter has ahead of her, I look toward my new calling with ex­citement and energy. 
COLLEEN MALLOY 
Notre Dame Class of 1993 

r---------------------------~----------------------------­
The Observer • ETC. Friday, December 3, 1993 

friday 
events 
"Menace II Society," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., $2. "The Firm," Cushing Auditorium. 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., $2. "A Christmas Story," Carroll Auditorium. SMC, 7 & 9:30 p.m., $2. Crack Ups Comedy Cafe (SAB), 9 to 11 p.m., SMC Dining Hall,. Saint Mary's Basketball vs. Adrian College, Carthage College, & Depauw University, 1 p.m., at the AAF 
•ic 
The Band of the Future. rock, reggae, & contempo~ rary, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9 p.m. 
saturday 
events 
"Menace II Society," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., $2. "The Firm," Cushing Auditorium, 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., $2. "A Christmas Story," Carroll Auditorium. SMC, 7 & 9:30p.m., $2. ND Hockey vs. Illinois~Chicago, 7 p.m., J.A.C.C. Fieldhouse. Michigan City Outlet Shopping Bus Trip, bus leaves at 9:30a.m.. $10, tickets available at LaFortune. 
•lc 
The Band of the Future, rock, reggae, & contempo~ rary, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9 p.m. 
The Groove, CLub 23, 10 p.m. 
"The Great Taste of South Bend," Alumni/ Senior Club, $6 or $10 per couple (includes food and DJ). Tickets available at LaFortune. Must be 21. 
sunday 
events 
Misa en Espanol, 11:30 a.m., Breen-Phillips Hall Chapel. Padre Robert Pelton, All are welcome. ND Women's Volleyball vs. Nebraska, 2 p.m., 
J.A.C.C. Arena. 
Holiday Card Action 1993, Vigil at Stonehenge, 6:30 p.m., 7 p.m. at CSC, Amnesty International USA. 
movies 
University Park East 
Carlito's Way 7, 9:50 
Remains of the Day 7, 9:55 
Adams Family Values 6:45. 7:30, 9. 9:40 My Life 7:15, 9:40 
University Park West 
Perfect World 7, 9:45 The Three Musketeers 7:45, 10 
22 shopping days IE Secret places to fin 
By KENYA JOHNSON and BEVIN KOVALIK Accent Writers 
It happens time and time again ­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are forced to stay at school nearly five days before Christmas. While everyone's counting down shopping days, we're counting down study days. 
Worst yet, students days to shop at their favorite stores at home are virtually obsolete -and neither University Park nor Scottsdale malls are acceptable options for christmas shopping. Never fear, more stores are here. 
First there's the plethora of outlets just west of South Bend known as the Lighthouse Place in Michigan City. Providing nearly 100 stores and up to 75 percent below retail prices, Lighthouse Place has become an affordable escape for students. Many of the country's most popular designiers are represented there along with some unique one-of-a-kind outlets. 
During the holiday season, Lighthouse Place is decorated with twinkling lights throughout the plazas courtyards. Overhangs protect shoppers from the not-so-nice weather and a trolley shuttle is available daily to transport people throughout the shopping center and on weekends to and from Michigan City South Shore train station for selected trains from South Bend. 
Also, this Saturday Student Union Board is sponsoring buses which will leave the main circle at 9:30 am. Tickets are $10 at LaFortune box office. 
The following stores are housed at Lighthouse Place: 
Apparel 
Adolfo II • Adrienne Vittadini 
•Aileen•Anko 
Also•Anne Klein Outlet•Aureus Outlet •Bass Clothing Outlet •Benetton• Boston Traders•Brands•Brooks Bros.•Bugle Boy Outlet•Cape Isle Knitters• Carole Little• Carter's• Champion Hanes•Chaus Factory Store•CW Company Store 

•Donna 
Karan Company Store• Eagle's Eye•Eddie Bauer• Executive Suites 

•Geoffrey 
Beene• Guess?• Harve Benard Factory .Outlet•IIathaway Factory Store•Henry Grethel•HE-RO Group • Izod Factory Store • J.Crew• JH Collectibles•Jaymar Factory Outlet•Jockey Factory Store• John Henry & Friends •Jonathan Logan Factory Store •Jones New York •L'Egg's, Hanes, 


Bali Factory Store •London Fog Factory Store •Maidenform Outlet Store 
•Multiples 
Factory Store• Oilily Ou tlet•Olga/Warner' s• PO LO/Halph Lauren Factory Store•Ruff Hewn Outlet 

•S&K 
Menswear •Side Out •The Sweatshirt Company •Van Heusen Outlet 

•WEMCO 
•Westport Ltd. • Westport 


Woman 
Accessories & Specialty Shops 
American Tourister Factory 
Outlet•Anko Also•Aureus Outlet 
•Crate&Barrel 
• Discount Entertainment 

• 
Famous Brands Electronics 

•Izod/Trifari 
Factory Outlet•Leather Manor•L'Eggs, Hanes, Bali Outle • Maidenform Outlet•Olga/Warner's•The Paper Factory•Perfumania•Prestige Fragrance•Remington Factory Outlet•The Ribbon Outlet •Sassafras Factory Outlet Store •Sockas Galore & More•Stone Mountain Handbags•Ties, Etc. •Toy Liquidators•The Wallet Works 

•Welcome 
Home•Wemco Factory Store 


Shoes & Boots 
Aureus Outlet• Banister Shoes • Bass Shoes•Boot Factory •Brands•Eddie Bauer•Etienne Aigner•Ilatrve Benard Factory Outlet•Hush Puppies Factory Direct •9 West & Co. Outlet •Nickels Co. Store•Oilily Outlet •POLO/Halph Lauren Factory Store 
Houseworks & Hardgoods Coming/Revere Factory Store •Dansk Outlet • Discount Entertainment 
•Famous Brands Electronics •Famous Brands Housewares•FieldcresVCannon Outlet• Kitchen Collection•Oneida Silver Outlet • The Paper Factory•Remington Factory Outlet • Hoyal Doulton•Toy Liquidators•Welcome Home 
Food Services & Restaurants 
Fanny Farmer Outlet •Pepperidge Farm Outlet •Pelican's Restaurant & Lounge •Sara Lee Outlet•Scoops Old Fashioned Ice Cream Parlour & Fudge Factory• 
In addition to the outle· can shop in the renovat~ ing called The Work: Pullman Hailroad Car 1<1 
The Works holds the fol],
All Stars•Biack Ros Bookstore in The Wor Good Ship•llot Knots S Outlet •Nickels Co 
•Pullman's Cafe a 
Lounge•Sands of Time~ Sugar Plum•TCBY Square•Totes 
Lighthouse Place i {Indiana Toll Road) at Streets. It is open fro Monday through Saturd 6 pm on Sunday. 
And there are a few ; right here in South Bend It may not be a boo like Chicago or New Yor 
Bend has a few surpris when it comes time for · ping. 
Hidden in the nooks i the South Bend area are of stores with many gift i iday season. In fact, this may even re-discover ! that reveal a special ho contain that special Cq on their shelves. 
Aquinas Book Store-2 Ave. Specializies in n Bibles, and religious gifts 
Baker's /Jike Shop­South. Offers a variety ol Schwinn brands, exercis ment and accessories, trade ins. 
Bead Workshop-Li 
Wilshire PLaza on Mislu: 
thousands of beads and , 
THE TRENDY GIFTS 0 CHRISTMAS '93 
Fragmnc£S  Clothing  
Men: Escape  Men: Flannel  
Women: Victoria Secret's  Women: Button-down~  
Entertainment  Specialties  
Mep_: CD Car Stereo  Men: Free weights  
Women: Aladdin Home Video  Women: Lingerie  

-~ --~----------~~----------------------_.,..-------------~----"1 
Friday, December 3, 1993 The Observer • ETC. page 11 
• 
\ 



.d that special gift 
~
village, student d factory build­. Formarly a ctory building, >wing: ' Jewelry• The :s• Chico's•The ack Shop•Levi's mpany Store 1d Club Car Silver Screen • Yogurt•Tivolli 
1 just of 1-94 'th and Wabash 1 9 am to 8 pm LY and 10 am to 
idden treasures 
ing metropolis City, but South s up its sleeve 'hristmas shop­
nd crannies of a wide selection ~eas for the hoi­season shoppers orne old shops liday spirit and istmas present 
306 Mishawaka ligious books, 
35 Dixie Way bikes including ~rs, bike equip­clothing, and 
>cated in the t-vaka Ave. Sells he supplies for 
jhite shirt 
crafts and jewelry kits. This intriquing Outpost Sports-3602 Grape rd. A vari­store also offers pre-made bead neck-ety of outerwear and clothing, camping laces and other jewelry. and hiking gear, outdoor equipment, 
Boxes Plus-Located in the Wilshire Bikes, sailboards. Shop here for the out-Plaza in Mishawaka. Provides ship-doorsman or athlete. 
ping services, car-~-----:~~::::::;;;~-~-....~P::aper Factory-
tons and ~ boxes 
The Crockery-225 S. Michigan Ave. Sells unique trinkets, pottery items, and the Crabtree & Evelyn Toiletry line. 
Frames Unlimited-5634 Grape Rd. in Buyer's Marketplace. Offers professional picture framing, ready made frames, matting, prints and posters. Great ideas for Christmas presents. 
Kagel's Flowers & Gifts-602 N. Michigan. Specializes in silk flower arrangements, household accessories, and a medley of gift ideas. 
Keepsakes. Collectibles, and Artistry­
714 E. Jefferson Blvd. This store has a gift for all occasions. Stuffed animals, figurines, gnomes, Christmas ornaments, books and games, gift baskets. 
Intimately Yours-507 59 US 31 Business. A complete line of lingerie to suit your needs, including pajamas, undergarments, robes, and fine toiletry products. 
Majerek's Hallmark & Reader World­Located in the North Village Mall, and 134 S. Michigan Ave.. Offers a world of Christmas gift ideas including books and magazines, crystal, cards, accessories, and collector's items. 
Mermaid's Quest Scuba Center-305 
E. McKinley Ave., Mishawaka. A com­plete line of state of the art scub diving eqipment, instruction, and local and Caribbean diving trips. Remember them when planning your tropical Christmas vacation. · 
Mole Hole-121 S. Niles Ave. in the Emporium Restaurant Building. A 6, 000 sq. feet collection of anything under the sun. Unique gifts including fine crystal, jewelry, Toiletries, collectibles, and men's and women's clothing. 


Located in t h e 
pens, markers, etc. 
Pepperweed Gifts-64347 US-31 S. Lakeville. Sells a variety of Christmas gift ideas such as cards, photo albums, trin­kets. 
Farmland Pet Center-1502 Union (SR 331 Mishawaka). Pet food and supplie.,, aquariums and cages, small animals, birds, dogs and cats, tropical fish, etc. This store has the gift for your favorite animal, or a take home a brand new pet. 
Pro-Golf-5530 N. Grape Rd. Mishawaka. Offers a huge selection of all major brands, free custom club fitting, club repairs and regripping, golf sportwear and equipment. The perfect store for the golfer in your family. 
Spice of Life LTD-5806 Grape Rd. Mishawaka. A mixture of gourmet cof­fees and foods, spices, imported choco­lates, gourmet gift baskets, etc. Send a gift basket to a long-distance loved one. 
Sugar-N-Spice Shoppe-307 N. Hill Ave. For the sweet-tooth on your Christmas list. Over 300 kinds of candy including fine chocolates, fudge, home­made candies, and sugarless and dietetic candies. 
Tracks-1631 Edison Rd. Sells COs, cassettes, posters, other music para­phanalia. They also buy and sell used tapes and COs. 
Village Lamp Shoppe-50552 US Route 31-33 N. Offers a variety oflamps, unique lampshades, lighting fixtures, lamp repair, and glass parts. Decorate and illuminate your home or office. 
The days are dwindling fast so choose a place and do some damage. 
CEF helps its 

th h 
_· .. ·.. roug .. cafd sale 
By ELISABETH HJWID Assisiirit Accenr Editoi"v 
.=·=·=~=''' 
A"'~tudent's 'fi:rs{ ~~~~~rtter with the United Nations International-Children's Emergency Fund (J.JNICEF) usually begins in grammar school around Halloween. Small cardboard boxes are handed out to everyonesothat they can gather dona· t~ons.'YPH~ gob1g .d~or to do()r trick qr ~reatjng.;.<"We work for the health of children aronm;l the wofld," said Carol Dunn, coordinator of the. UNICEF Card Sale as a part of. Ladies of Notl'e Dame and Saint Mary's. They focus on several aspects including providing safe water. immunization and pro­viding a special formUla for dehydrated children. 
. Beside~ co~!ecting money on Halloween, UNICEF also sponsors acard sale:· F()r th~ past J2 years. they h<we. been selling Christmas' cards arid other ·paraphernalia in an. effort to raise :money. ~oc~tedjn th(:l}Ieshllrg Ubrary through Qecember 10, ~olunteers sell cards, notecards. wall calendars. desk calendars, pocket calendars, mugs, puzzles, games and other items. Open Monday through Friday from9a.m~ to 4 p.m., prices range any· where from $7.50to$2K n:;;;>,.,,... coih'" Hi .. . •t!i 
library is a good traffic flow location," Dunn said. "It's 
P.P.IntrnJ and we •get a lot ofpeople ¢oming through." in ch,~ge of the program. Dunn, along with · order the items to sell and keep the table 
weeks the. program ruJ1S, .· ... 
""'"'".'..~ UNICEF store in South Bend, and it is .. •· ·. . them thatWE): get ot1r items." said Dtinn. "'l work with a t:f.lpresentative ·from the store and make out the order. They get the suppUf.ls. and deliver them to my home~ 1keep the :rnajqrit¥ of t}le .St()~~ t}lel'~ and ,bring things to the Library (lVerydayi" 'In the past the .Card ·Salehas raised as much as 
~sppq. <t•i· • .• .··• ···••· .. .. ,.. . .. · .. Vi .· 
. .·... ·. . . . pNICEf through the Ladies of Notre Dame andSaint Mary's; ..~Jt~s an organization ofwomen and_who are faQulty ·~nd staff, or the spouses,.. said Dunn. "'We welcome newcomf.lrS to the faculcy by writing them a greeting letter over the SUmmer and by giving them <!. packet with a contact person, We also]Iold a Christmas tea.. sell. and donate items for a schol· ftrs.~ip fund for bot~ •.foll~ges, and have education programs for 
the members." _· );; ·.· ·· ··. · · · 
. All participantsin the Ladies of Notre Dame and S().int Mary's are volunteers, along with the members of the Card Sale and the :workersih the United Nation store. All ofthe money made 
goes dip(ctly to UNICE~; _There are no salaries and the store does not make a profit. If·.·. :dr Eyen though the Card Sal(l has only open since Nov. 29,.it has 
successfut "We'v& been received very well," said Dunn. .Qeen pleased with. th~ ptt,~t coupJf.l• of days," The pur· ~.;u<l:>t:Jr:> have included faculty, students and visitors to the cam· ·· seems ·to· have developed a small fel· wh() specifically look forward to it 
to Dunn; ·· came by and said that. she was buying the um:;~:~.u!>t: the money to UNICEF,'' said Dunn. 
Erica Quinn 
·· Students spread Christm~s cn~er to. . UNICEF members. 
Dunn stresses that e is not the only for the success program. "It's just me," she said. a team effort ­helpers d volunteers. It the participation those who sell and se who buy to 
it successful." 
"We do pretty well," he added. "It's a worthwhile pro­This is a busy 
of the year." 
Dunn believes that purchasing the gift one is making a appreciated uuJ.HHiuu to a worthy . "You are not · buying presents," said, "but you are · giving something 
world.ft
to 
page 12 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD . Friday, December 3, I993 
The voice of anti-setnitists does not deserve to be heard 
My generation and my par­ents' generation were witnesses to the devastation caused to human lives by Hitler's so called Final Solution. You may ask mockingly, in a line out of vaudeville, "Vas you dere, Sharlie?ll It's like asking, "Were you there when they crucified my Lord?' 
But yes, I was there for the Holocaust, -1 was there at least as much as I was there for the moon landing, or as much as I was present in the green hell of Vietnam when the Green Berets were killing and being killed on prime time television. 
"Seeing we are encompassed about with a great cloud of wit­nesses" wrote St. Paul, we look

·• "unto Jesus the author and fin­isher of our faith." How could we survive as Christians if we didn't believe in more than our own eyes have seen? 
As a lad starting high school in 1939, I was aware that bad things were happening to the Jews in Europe. The suffering and pain of our Jewish neigh­bors kept us aware of the hor­ror they lived in, once the mail stopped coming from their European relatives, or when they heard the reports of Nazi atrocities on the radio. 
When the death camps were liberated in 1945, we discov­ered what the "Final Solution" was all about I've read that there was great resistance in America to accepting the news of the Holocaust, even when the 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND NORTH PADRE/MUSTANG ISLAND 
t-----F•L•O•R•I•D•.II. ----j 
DA YTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH ORLANDOIWAL T DISNEY WORLD 
t----C•O•L•O•R•II.•D•O ---; 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
t-----N•E•V•II.•D•A-----1 
LAS VEGAS 
S•O•U•T•H C•II.•R•O•L•I•N•A 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CALLTOLLFREEFORFULL DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 
1 • BOO•SUNCHASE 
-
54 Holes
of lndoo_x
Mintature Golf 
Over 100 Video Games! 
Open 7 Days a week 
Mon.-Thur. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m.-II p.m. Sunday I p.m. -10 p.m. 
Town & Country Shopping Center on Mckinley in MtshaWaka 
254-0100 
Use Your Student Discount Card! 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers lo a Bone/j 9od 

U.S. 
Army broke into the camp areas ; and that the GIS were furious when people back home refused to believe what they had seen or even look at their photos. The evidence was too overwhelming to be ignored long. 
Not a week has gone by in the half-century since then that I haven't learned more of the genocide that wiped out the rank and file of Ashkenazi Jews living in Eastern Europe. I haven't had to leave the Notre Dame campus to meet survivors of the death camps who can be identified by the numbers on their arms. 
Anti-Semitism today flour­ishes among us as Holocaust­denial. The mistake that young scholars could make is to think that the revisionists-that is, the anti-Semites who deny that the Holocaust happened­deserve, in the name of fair play, to have their day in court to speak their piece. . 
Such a hearing could make It seem as though their hate-mon­gering might be credible. Young scholars wouldn't give a hear­ing to the crazies who insist that the moon landings were a fake staged in Hollywood. 
They'd pay scant attention to the defenders of the flat-earth theory. Both kinds of skepticism are harmless aberrations, but Holocaust-denial is a vicious, up-to-date way of Jew-baiting, which has been going on, tragi­cally, for 2,000 years. As col­lege students alive in the centu­ry of the Holocaust, young scholars can go to the continent and visit Dachau, or watch the film footage from Auschwitz showing the stacked-up bodies on PBS. 
They can read the holocaust. literature, or listen to Edward Murrow on the radio tapes he made, describing his entry into the camps as a descent into hell. Even as Johnnies-come­lately, young scholars can become latter-day witnesses to the war that their grandfathers fought in, simply by getting acquainted with the veterans and victims whose war-wounds are still visible. 
Do young scholars under­stand how the allegiance of their hearts, minds, and souls is contended for? Anti-Semitism was the original sin of the Church, just as racism which condoned slavery and degraded the Indians was the original sin of America the Beautiful. 
=}:=f; 
[B@][f~[f@] ~[f@][ID~ 
21
Happy 5' Birthday 
December4 
If they allow themselves to be persuaded that Holocaust­denial is a reasonable option worthy of thoughtful examina­tion in the groves of academe, they give anti-Semitism a fresh lease on life. Does it seem that I'm talking down to them? It's because I'm worried about the mistake young idealists can make in their effort to be fair and enlightened. 
When the revisionists who deny the Holocaust pay for ads in the campus press, it's because they know how earnest and honest students ordinarily try to be in sorting out their options; that's why the revision­ists can count on their advertis­ing being taken seriously. 
They can bet on the fact that a few innocents can be hooked on the lies of a hate campaign. Does it do any good to warn students that the truth cannot be heard from the hate-mon­ger. 
In a book of essays on the denial of the Holocaust, a bit of folklore has been included: in a village in Siberia, two old Jews are seated on a bench. One of them is reading a newspaper and suddenly says, "Sao Paulo just beat Rio de Janeiro in soc­cer.-The other replies: "Is it good for the Jews?" 
A bit of rabbinic commentary is added to the tail: "God is always on the side of the perse­cuted. One can find a case where a just man persecutes a just man, and God is on the side of the persecuted; when an 
L 
~ 0 
0 

1­
7.. 
~ 
evil man persecutes an evil man, God is on the side of the persecuted; and even when a just man persecutes an evil man, God is on the side of the persecuted." 
The author's insight is: "To reflt~ct on such a text and its implications: that surely. would be good for the Jews." 
It's not always easy to know what side God takes these days. Next week. however, the Church celebrates a feast of Our Lady, conceived without s·in, that we could take our bearings from. She is cele­brated as the glory of God's people Israel, and as the Mother of the Church. Hitler's holocaust would not have spared her, if Berlin had been her Nazareth, though her like­ness can be seen on every road­side shrine in his native Austria. 
Anti-Semitism seems the sad­dest of all our Catholic sins, when we consider the worthi­ness the Mother of the Word made flesh, to whom we are indebted for mothering the Christ in us. The anti-Semites didn't hesitate to say: "Six mil­lion Jews were killed and thrown on the dungheap of Europe be~.ause they were money-Jews. 
For a Jew left orphaned by the gas ovens, even that ugly libel would be easier to live with than a denial of the Holocaust. 
A Jewish writer asks: "Will truth have the last word? How one would like to be sure of it..." 
friday Ni8ht 5p.m.-9 p.m. is NO Ni8ht 25% Discount on full &rvice 
Must have 6tudent 10 
~~ 
v full &rvice 6alon Hair • 6kin • Nails 
1357 N. Ironwood 
AVEDA..
Corner of Edison 
II IE Aln t\NI l St :lENt 'E t If· I'! lf\1: H.t 1WI'R t\Nil I'Lt\N 1 L'-'<;f:Nt TS 
(9 Ironwood 
Hair Cm.: • Skin Cu~ • Cnlnur C<Nm·tirs 
HOURS 
M~Th: 11:00 a.m.~ 1:00 a.m. Fri~Sat: 11:00 a.m. ~ 3:00a.m. Sun: Noon ~ 1:00 a.m. 
Now accepting Visa 
& 
Mastercard $1 0 minimum 
Friday, December 3, 1993 The Observer • NHL page 13 
Oates lifts Bruins, Toronto continues torrid road pace 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Adam Oates scored two goals and assisted on three others Thursday night as the Boston Bruins beat the penalty­plagued New York Islanders 7­3. 
The Bruins took a 3-0 lead in the first eight minutes. Two of the goals came on power plays as the Islanders twice found themselves with three players in the box, two serving penal­ties and a third awaiting his turn. 
Oates gave the Bruins a 1-0 lead with his 11th goal of the season at 3:27, with Joe Juneau drawing his 100th career assist on the play. 
New York's Derek King drew a hooking penalty at 4:25 and Benoit Hogue and Steve Thomas were sentenced simul­taneously at 5:21 for tripping and high-sticking. Juneau scored 7 seconds later on the power play. 
Hogue returned to the ice af­ter the goal, but Dennis Vaske was sent off for slashing at 6:15 and Ray Bourque scored for the Bruins at 7:16. 
Vaske trimmed the lead to 3-1 with his first goal of the season at 16:30 and Marty Mcinnis cut it to 3-2 with a score at 13:59 of the second period. 
Steve Leach restored Boston's two-goal lead with 42 seconds left in the second period and Ted Donato made it 5-2 with this eighth of the year at 1:43 of the third. 
Tom Draper replaced Is­landers goalie Ron Hextall and he was greeted by Oates' sec­ond goal of the game and 12th of the season at 5:39. 
King scored at 9:07 and Juneau scored at 17:53. 
Maple Leafs 5 Blues 4 
ST. LOUIS 
The NHL's best road team, the Toronto Maple Leafs, got goals from low-scoring defensemen Bob Rouse and Jamie Macoun in a 31-second span late in the game to beat the St. Louis Blues 5-4 Thursday night. 
Rouse tied it with his third goal with 2:42 left on a drive from 30 feet and Macoun scored his first for the winner at 2:11 on a shot that somehow 

Brett Hull didn't have much to celebrate Thursday in a 5-4 loss to Toronto. 
trickled past goalie Curtis two-goal deficit to raise their night, home-and-home sweep Joseph right after Toronto had road record to 10-3-3. That's of the Blues. The Maple Leafs won a faceoff. nearly as good as their 9-2-1 outshot St. Louis 53-29 in a 4-2 
The Central Division-leading record at Maple Leaf Gardens. victory at Toronto Wednesday Maple Leafs twice overcame a Toronto also completed a two-night. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
HOLIDAY CARD ACTION 1993 sponsered by AMNESTY INTER­NATIONAL on Sunday, Dec. 5. Begins at 6:30 with a vigil at STONEHENGE; writing begins at 7:00 at the esc with a special guest speaker. 
NOTICE: Julie Harvey is 211!!!!!!11 
Typing 287-4082 
Professional Typing 
Dissertations, Term Papers 
Reasonable Rates 
277-7406 
Coming Soon ... the Alumni Assoc. & Senior Class bring you ... 
"The Great Taste of South Bend" Saturday, December 4, 1993 
7:30 PM Senior Bar Tickets include food and D.J. 
$6 ea. $1 0 couple Look for tickets & details at LaF Info. Desk. Must be 21 to partici­pate. Benefits South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost a gold and pearl pin Between the Football Stadium and LaFortune via O'Shag and Neuwland Science. 
If found, please call 631-5243. 
REWARD: Lost small silver and gold seiko watch with a cracked face. Much sentimental value. Call Susan x4189 
Lost black Panasonic walkman next to Allegro Cafe -downstairs La Fortune on Monday midnight. Please contact desperate owner at 2257. If you don't want to return the walkman, at least please! II return the CASSETTE. It's essential for this guy's survival. 
Found: a Casio graphing 
calculator in the student computer 
lab of Debartolo on Veteran's Day 
November 11. Call Jarrad x4186 
$25 REWARD. Return please, 1 brown envelope type glasses case, with pocket clip. Front side has 2 pockets containing a matched set silver in color Parker pen & pencil each has gold pocket clips, pencil has gold tip. Keepsakes. Lost in vincinity Ubrary, Basilica, Grotto, S. Dining Hall last week. Contact Steve 289-5242 after 8pm, or Library lost and found. 
LOST: Silver chain with round ball locket that holds six photos. Extreme sentimental value. If found, please call 273-5251. 
Gold earring found in front of NOH on Wed. 12/1. Call Matt at x1430 wl description. 
WANTED 
Travel Abroad and Work. Make up to $2000-$4000+/mo. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584 
Seeking female, non-smoking room­mate for sprg sem. Grad/law stu­dent or young faculty/staff. H289­5989, W1-7421. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE! CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31 
STILL LOOKING FOR MALE & 
FEMALE MODELS TO PUT ON 
POSTERS & CALENDARS. FOR 
INFO., PLEASE CALL 271-1371. 
BEACH Springbreak Promoter. 
Small or large groups. FREE trips 
and CASH. Call CMil-800-423­
5264. 
SPRING BREAK! Sunchase Tours 
is seeking ambitious sales reps to 
promote Spring Break '94! Earn 
cash and free trips. Call today: 
1-800-SUNCHASE. 
Need rides to MINNEAPOLIS after 
4:00 Sat. 18. Please call 3486 
FOR RENT 
Furnished House: jan-dec 1994. 3 bed, 1 1/2 bath. 409 Peashway st. walk to NO. Washldryr, dishwashr, 2 car garage, 600/mo + util. Show by appt. 233-6523. 
FURNISHED 8 BEDROOM HOME 1 MILE NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 
272-0615. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
ROOMMATE NEEDED Spr. Sem. Trtle Crk Twnhs 271-1399 
Lodging -Riverfront -Private 257-9101 
2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES NEAR NO AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR 232-2595 
South Haven Ml gift idea: beach front condo, sleeps 6, fireplace, ski­ing, weekly-monthly (219)234-2626 
FOR SALE 
Woodbridge condo for sale, near Notre Dame, ideal for student. Owner financing available $42,500. SMITH ZEISZ CO. 272-5444. Kevin Zeisz. 
FOR SALE: Cool beaded earings, necklaces, and bracelets all at high­ly reasonable prices. Great Christmas gifts! Call Jessica at 4­2963 
1980 Olds Toronado, transmission rebuilt, runs great, need minor body work, $500. Tel: 4-4536 
PAIR OF BOSE SPEAKERS. $300. 272-3024 AFTER 4 PM. 
Portable electronic typewriter-word­processor, memory card, extras. $100. Gabor, 233-8745. 
Moving sale: bookshelves $5, swiveling chair $3, armchair $5, desk $10, b/w TV $15. Gabor, 233­8745. 
BAHAMA -CRUISE 
5 Days 4 niles $288/couple 
Underbooked 10-9 Mon-Fri 
10-5 Sat 407-648-4480 ext 607 
94 SPRING BREAK TRIPS REA­SONABLE PRICES TO JAMAICA, PADRE, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA Ill CALL CHRIS@ (219) 289-2767 
TICKETS 
Notre Dame Bowl Tickets For Sale (317) 879-8497 
4 Michael Bolton Tix on New Year's Eve at Chicago-great seats­$100 ea.-John x1380 
PERSONAL 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK INVITES ALL STU­DENTS, GRAD STUDENTS, LAW STUDENTS TO ITS FIRST STU­DENT/ALUMNI GET-TOGETHER ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1993 AT 6:00PM AT REIDY'S RESTAURANT 22 East 54th Street, New York NY. For info call Carey Lamont (212)848-7351 or Monique Headley (914)251-8669 
MARCH FOR LIFE FRIDAY, January 21 DC TRIP If interested call NO Right to Life 631-9006 
Dave Cary's Irish Dillon Hall 
HEY NO LAW STUDENTS! WISH ROB CLANCY A HAPPY 24TH BIRTHDAY 
ROB, !ERES LO MEJOR! !FELIZ CUMPLEANOSI TE QUIRO, XOKIT 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
NEED CHRISTMAS CASH? 
STOP BY THE MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
1% INTEREST $10-$250 30 DAYS 
MON.-FRI. 11:30-12:30 NEXT TO INFO DESK 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
$ 
Happy 21st Birthday JULIE HARVEYII!III Have a GROOVY day!!! 
Love, Amy and Linda 
AUDITIONS AUDITIONS for SMC musical play QUILTERS 
All female actors, dancers, singers Mon., Dec. 6 Tues. Dec. 7 
?p.m. 
Regina Room 16, SMC FOR APPT. CALL 284-4640 Please bring song (with music) 
Monologues provided. 
Jennifer Ann Lang is finally 21 !!! Happy Birthday!!lllll I'll certainly Miss You. Love Ya. Eddi. 
Happy Birthday Jen Lang, You have finally hit the big 21 !!!!! 
Love, Rocky and Eddi. 
Julie and Tom long to adopt your infant into our loving New England home. Your child will grow up in a happy home near great schools, parks and beaches. Call collect any­time (508)535-3718. Easy to talk to. 
JULIE HARVEY!!! 
On your birthday, ask for 
PELICAN HEAD! Love, 
Jock 
Julie, if you look under your chair, you'll find a nice juicy grape!!!! 
JUICE, JUICE, JUICE, JUICE!!!!!!!! 
It's not Red and there's no Rocks in it!!!!! 
Rudy lives. 
Be Good to your body ..... DON'T 
STRESS .... or you will die young ... lt 
is Christmas Season and grades 
are only grades .... 
Adoption: the placement of your 
child may be the most precious gift 
you could make. NO alum wants to 
be mom through your gift. 
Professional couple, country home, 
with lots of love and faith. Strictly 
legal. Call Tricia and Jim 
1-800-820-1139. 
Quality Copies, Quickly THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 631-COPY 
ADOPTION: NO grad and wife, hap­pily married for eight years, wish to adopt a baby. We offer a warm, lov­ing home with kindness and patience from a full-time mom and devoted dad. Please call Wendy and Tim at 1-800-440-8588 any1ime 
Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on 
Luxury Yachts Seven day Island 
Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin 
& Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6. 
1/800-999-SAIL 
(7245) 
Win a trip to Cancun! Look for 
details and entry blanks in the 
coupon section of your new 
University Telephone Directory. 
Directories are available now at 
Student Activities in Lafortune. 
BEER GAMES II (the book) GREAT GIFT order NOW receive FREE Intellectual Beer Games, Offensive Jokes! Send $8 cash/check ($7 +$1 S&H) Shipped w/in 48 hrs COLLEGE PRODUCTS INC: PO BOX 2456 AMHERST, MA 01004 
Victor Rocks on 4 peace. I'm bilin­gual. 
PROLIFE CHRISTMAS CARDS TONIGHT DINING HALL $5/pkg. 10 PROCEEDS BENEFIT WOMEN'S CARE CENTER ALSO SIGN UP FOR MARCH FOR LIFE ND/SMC RTL 
21!21121121121!211211211211 HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JULIE!!IIII! 21121121!21!21121121121!21! 
JULIE HARVEY IS 211111111!!1 Wish her a happy day and ask her to do "the walk" 
JESSL YN PETERSON: 
GOOD LUCK THIS WEEKEND! ALTHOUGH WE CAN'T BE THERE, WE SUPPORT YOU! YOU'RE AWESOME!!IIIIIII!II!!IIII!! 
LOVE, 4A 
Shellie:My God it's been so long never dreamed you'd return,but now here you are and here I am Patrick 
#######Clothe the naked####### If you know where I can buy the !­shirt "Why do all the trees bend to the west?" Call Bevo at X2569 
We are the Weasels, my friends And we'll keep on fighting 'til the end To the great PW football seniors: BRiddle, Tate, Bird, Heinous, Peg, Crazy T, Gail, Ster, Louie, Marty, Catherine, Meredith, Peanut and of course Jamie!l Thanks for the great year, GOOD TIMES, and great memories. We finally made it to the stadium! We love you and we'll miss you. Good Luck in all future endeavors! REMEMBER: It's not just a side of the ball; It's an ATIITUDEII! 
love and purple power, THE WEASELS 
Taylor-
Good to have you backll I hope you were nice and healthy. Take care of yourself!! Love You, Jamie 
page 14 The Observer· PRO BASKETBALL 
Magic Johnson says he could still play in the NBA 
Suns, Sonics win on the road 
Associatod Pr= 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
A. C. Green scored 10 of his 16 points in the fourth quarter and the Phoenix Suns held on for a 102-101 win over Detroit, send­ing the Pistons to their fifth straight loss Thursday night. 
A basket by Green gave the Suns a 102-99lead with 12 sec­onds remaining. Isiah Thomas, back after missing seven games with a broken bone in his right hand, sank two free throws with 7 seconds left. 
Following a timeout, Sean El­liott stole the inbounds pass from Charles Barkley. But El­liott was called for charging into Frank Johnson. The Suns got the ball back with just under 2 seconds remaining and ran out the clock. 
Barkley's turnover was one of only nine for the Suns, who went more than 37 minutes AP File Photo without one (from 3:34 of the lsiah Thomas' two late free throws weren't enough to lift Detroit past first quarter to 9:44 of the Phoenix. 

fourth). 
with a 55-52 halftime lead. pressed with how his team 
Barkley had 21 points and 10 
didn't let its only loss of the 
assists and was one rebound 
SEATILE 105 season-a 101-90 setback in 
shy of a triple-double. Kevin 
WASHINGTON 95 Cleveland on Nov. 27 -affect 
Johnson, Dan Majerle and 
it. 
Oliver Miller all joined Green 
LANDOVER, Md.
with 16 points for Phoenix. 
"We didn't play well back east
After a six-game road trip, the
Terry Mills had a season-high 
last year," Karl said. "We made 
Seattle SuperSonics are not
33 points for Detroit. 14 in the 
it our goal at the end of the sea­
heading home with a perfect
first quarter. Thomas equaled 
son to do better when we went
record.
his season-high with 26 points 
back east. Now we have to do
Still, 12-1 isn't so bad.
and added 13 assists. 
the same more thing two more
Seattle finished its a trip with
The Pistons had a 13-point 
times."
a victory Thursday night, using 
lead midway through the sec­
Kendall Gill and Gary Payton
a 14-0 run at the outset of the 
ond quarter. But Barkley 
had 18 points apiece for the
second quarter to beat the
scored 11 points in a 21-6 burst 
Sanies, who have the second­
Washington Bullets 105-95. 
and the Suns took a 51-49 lead 
best record in the NBA. Detlef
The trip included stops on
after a three-point play by 
Schrempf added 17 points -13
the West Coast, in the Midwest
Danny Ainge with 1:51 left in 
in the first quarter -Nate
and the East, and the Sanies
the half. 
McMillan 16 and Shawn Kemp
managed five victories.
Baskets by Mills, Elliott and 
12. 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. 
Magic Johnson insisted Thursday he could return to the NBA but he'd rather not create controversy in the game he helped to elevate. 
"If I wanted to go back any­time, I'll go back, but I don't want to deal with that," John­son said, referring to the nega­tive reaction some players had to his comeback attempt last year. 
Johnson said he still believes the opposition by the players -notably Karl Malone of the Utah Jazz-had nothing to do with Johnson having AIDS. 
"They knew the real rea­son," Johnson said. ''They were never going to beat us (the Lakers) with me playing on the team.... Uke I told Karl to his face ... I'm banging up against the greatest players in the world, and nobody com­plained." 
Johnson was referring to his practices with the U.S. team that won the gold medal at the 1992 Barcelona Olympics. 

"Every day we scrimmaged ... now you're going to turn around and tell me you have a fear now?," be said. "That doesn't sit well with me." 
Still, Johnson said he decided at the time it would be better for the league if he didn't play. 
"I left because I wanted to retire and not put a black mark on the game," he said. "If they (other players) were complaining (about playing with someone with the virus). it was easier for me to leave ... I just wanted to make it easier for everybody." 
Johnson spoke during a news conference before a game be­tween his traveling all-star team and the Hartford Hellcats of the CBA. It was the second stop on a five-city tour against CBA teams. 
Johnson explained that he put together the tour because he's not satisfied playing at the local gym and misses the crowds. 
It's been two years since Johnson announced he was in­fected with the HIV virus and quit the Los Angeles Lakers af· ter 13 seasons. 
Suzanne s![{ora{ 
See our ~eautiju{ ~ses 
ROSE SPECIALS 
Lots of Colors Located ~Daily Delivery Comer of ~Student Discount 
Ironwood & Edison 288,7551 
Coach George Karl was im-Thomas helped Detroit go off 
A1iiOOte k> tbe Original,'frad.itiooa.l,
SPORTS BRIEFS 
One-Hundred-Percent, Ali·American Christmas... 
All 1993 Fall Champi­onship teams and individuals who have not gotten their pic­

1837 SOUTH SEND AVENUE 1 ture taken please come to the I · 12/10/9J SOUTH SEND. INDIANA 46637 ' 
' Offer exp1res . . . Limit one coupon per customer. 1
RecSports Office on Monday, Dec. 6th anytime between 7 :__ ~t ~~~~~~ ':: ~e~r~~o~or~o~~o~ ... ·--~ $ ~ p.m.-8 p.m. to get it taken. 
NO Rowing Team formal on Dec 10. Anyone interested 
6[e 's !]3islro & ~ 
in going novice or varsity bring 
5ta Q~~~
$12 to Rm 235 Lyons by Friday. ('..all Mary at 4294 with 
c~ ~~ 
questions. 
()V Fine dining at moderate prices ~~ 
Stressbreaker. The Notre 
Gourmet sandwiches • pastries • coffee ~ 
Dame Ultimate Frisbee Oub is practicing Sunday at 8 p.m. in 
Theatre \VtJrks Playhouse -upstairs 
Loftus. All are welcome. Call 
at the Bistro 
Tony at 232-7316 for more information. Ask about catering 257-0400 
~----S~LLS----~ 
BOSE•B&W•CARVER•KENWOOD 
ATLANTIC TECHNOLOGY • CWO • ONKYO 
DR. CRANKENSTEIN • PRECISION POWER
ANNE CUSICK 
VMPS • TARGET • GRADO LABS • APATURE 
BLAUPUNKT • ROCK SOLID 
from the 
& MANY MORE! 
DIOCESE OF SOMOA PAGO--PAGO 
MICHIANA'S BEST SELECTION OF 
USED EQUIPMENT 
will be in the LaFortune Student Center Basement 
TRADE-INS WANTED 
near the Society Bank on Sunday, Dec. 5 from 4:30 .. 
EXPERT ADVICE • LOWEST PRICES 
VISA • MASTERCARD • LAYAWAYS 
6:30 p.m. to speak with students interested in the 
AUDIO EXCHANGE
two--year teaching program in American Samoa. 
JMS PLAZA • GRAPE RD. 273-9607 


~ --~-~---~---­
Friday, December 3, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Phillies deal Mitch Williams to Astros 
By RALPH BERNSTEIN 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
The Philadelphia Phillies threw in the towel Thursday. Mitch Williams is gone. 
The Wild Thing, the erractic reliever who saved 43 games during the regular season but gave up the World Series-win­ning homer to Joe Carter in Game 6, was traded to the Houston Astros. 
Williams, who received death threats and had his house van­dalized after blowing several save opportunities in the post­season, was dealt for reliever Doug Jones and minor league pitcher Jeff Juden. 
"I think this was done proba­bly for the best interests of Mitch Williams and the Phillies," Phillies general man­ager Lee Thomas said. "He did a good job for us and I hate to see him go. I think it will be better for him in the long run and probably for everybody." 
It seemed inevitable Williams would have to move on. Even when he was saving games, some teammates and fans would cover their heads with towels when he pitched be­cause he usually made things worse before they got better.. 
Things unraveled rapidly for him when he squanderd a 14­10 lead in Game 4 of the Series and then gave up Carter's three-run homer in the ninth inning of Game 6, giving the Blue Jays an 8-6 victory. When Williams came in to start the fateful inning, Game 5 winner Curt Schilling sat with a towel wrapped around his head so he didn't have to watch. 
Williams said he wanted to 
Exactly which way is up? 
Love, 
Stef 
return to the Phillies but even one of his teammates, Len Dykstra, said it was a bad idea. 
"I know some players were talking, but their job is playing, and ours is doing this," said Thomas, who denied players forced his hand. "We don't put a gag on anybody." 
Thomas said Williams didn't ask to be traded and the team didn't initially intend to trade him. 
"This came up in the last cou­ple of days," Thomas said. "I had a couple of talks with (Houston general manager) Bob Watson and the next thing you know we had done it." 
Thomas said he was unable to reach Williams to inform him of the deal, but did tell his agents. 
Williams will get $2.5 million next year and can be a free agent after the World Series. Jones is guaranteed $2.75 mil­lion for 1994 with a $3.25 mil­lion club option in 1995. 
"I love the guy," Dykstra said before the trade. "He's a great competitor and he'll always take the ball. I'm sure he wants to pitch here again, but for his sake I hope he doesn't have to. Given what happened, he'll probably never, never be able to pitch in Philly again. 
"Can you imagine what could happen on opening day? Sup­pose there are 60,000 scream­ing at the Vet and we've got a one-run lead and Mitch comes in to start the ninth. Suppose he walks the first hitter. It would be brutal. Those fans would be all over him. To bring him back would be just too much to ask of Mitch and the Phillies. It would be unfair to put that kind of pressure on him, and on his teammates." 
Williams failed to covert four of seven save chances in the postseason. He was 3-7 with a 
3.34 ERA and 43 saves during the season. 

Daily Delivery to Notre Dame 
and South Bend 
OPEN7DAYS 
1404 NIronwood Dr South Bend, IN 46635 ~ l\ (219) 288-3995 
M-Th 7:30-8:00 Fri 7:30-9:00 &flo; "" ® Sat 8:00-8:00 
Edison
• 
Sun 10:00-5:00 
"All Major Credit'\ards Accepted" CHARGE BY PHONE 
Sign...ups December 1... 15 at LaFortune Information Desk 
Tournament Play begins in January. Winner advances to National 
Tournament and wins a chance to play at an NBA Arena! 
Glitter gone from' SEC title game 
ByJAY REEVFS Assoeiated Pr= 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.­
The Southeastern Conference had a dream matchup for its inaugural championship game last year ~-an und~f¢ated Alabama )leating FlQrid~ on a dramatic play t()·adv~rice to a national championship showdown. 
The same two teams are back for the second title game. But al} the glitter is gone, and maybe one of the key players is,too. 
Instead of playing for a sec­ond straight national crown, No. 16 Alabama (8·2-1 over~ all, 5.,.24; · ~ $EC) will be trytng _•. · third loss in (Qut g _ Satl.lti:la:s< 
Defensive back Antonio 
Langham \Vho }lad a game·
i 
winning interception return for a touchdown last year ­was declared ineligible last week following revelations he had signed with a sports agent. Alabama is awaiting an appeal wit}I the NCAA. 
Ninth~.r~:nke~l Florida (9-2, 
·7,1). . ··· ··· ·· hHe>.is coming off a 1~~~ t{) Florida sta i-_ _ _ _ <m~-<'~ii~to:rs' tan­dentor·star~g_quarterbacks. 
Danny -wuert'fel; is out with a 
knee injmj, ,__, All this addsup to a champi· onship game that has yet to sell out, despite being played at Alabama's second home. Legion Field, More than 6,000 ticket!) remain in the 83,091"seat stadium, and promoters resorted to going on th _ dio . to remind fans. that, h!lYithe SEC title is stillat stake: ·· 

-

page 16 Friday, December 3, 1993 
Seymour 
continued from page 20 
not only playing competitively, but winning the tight matches. After upsetting Illinois and Nebraska earlier in the season, the Irish have failed to win more than one game against top 20 competition in their last four matches, despite contest­ing each to the end. 
To gain the respect, the Irish have to win the big matches, and there has never been a bigger one than· Sunday's rematch. 
Talent is not the issue. In Christy Peters, Notre Dame has a genuine superstar by any comparison who has a tenden­cy to elevate her game against better competition. She also has a quality of invincibility in her game that is indicative of being the best. Opponents know Peters will be there on the outside, and more often than not, there is nothing they can do to stop her. 
Peters also has an exception­al supporting cast in the seniors. Setter Janelle Karlan has rewritten the record book, running the offense with the confidence and leadership her position mandates. 
Classmate Molly Stark has also lived up to her potential in controlling the middle, but she also adds an emotional spark that the team needs. She is the one player who exults in hitting the ball hard not around oppo­nents, but at times at them, bringing a measure of intimidation to the Irish lineup. 
Middle blocker Julie Harris rounds out the senior trio, and has been a surprise for the Irish, making up for a lack of experience and quickness with a great knowledge of the game, picking her spots to score at the right times. She is also one of the classiest athletes at Notre Dame. 
The real difference on Sunday will come from the out­side hitters opposite Peters. Nicole Coates is perhaps the most athletic person, pound for pound, on the campus, and must play well to take the pres­sure ofT of Peters. 
Joining her, freshman Jenny Birkner needs to continue her assertive play, combining eiTe­ciency with aggressiveness. 
The first time around, the Irish surprised the Huskers, but this time Notre Dame will have no undue advantage. It will be both teams at their best, with the stakes higher than be­fore. Just what a tournament game should be. 
Sunday will be when the Irish can prove to the nation that they can win the big one. Their respect is on the line, and that is when great players come to play. 
Following the FSU game, this may be the biggest game on campus this year. Nebraska, noted for pulling in 8,000 a game, is undoubtedly busing in fans. Coach Brown's squad will be ready. Past failures may be redeemed. March madness months earlier. Too bad Notre Dame fans forget that not only the football team needs support. 
The Observer/Jake Peters Senior Molly Stark is the emotional spark for the Irish volleyball team. 
Notre Dame's Only Latin Band! 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• Used books bought and sold 
-
• 
25 Categones of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback Books tn stock 

• 
Out-Of-Pnnt Search Servtce -$1 .00 

• 
Appratsals large and small Open noon to ai11 Tuaaday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Band, IN 46617 (21!!) 232-8444 

.r  
Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and  ~~•[j::j:  
discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road,  ~ h  
Notre Dame and downtown South Bend.  Our beautiful  
grounds are spaciolis and we_ll kept ... and we have an activi­ 
ties program that includes team sports, free aerobics dasses,  
and mud1 more.  
Efficiencies from $270  
1-Bedrooms from $285  
2-Bodrooms from $345  
Pool &Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio  li l  
Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping  
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Servico  
Planned Activities with Free A~roblcs  
Stop by today and we'll show you how  
aHordable apartment living can be.  

Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
us," added Peters, the team's leader in kills and digs. "Our mental state entering the game is important. If we take one play at a time, we should be okay." 
Earlier in the season, the Irish were able to sneak up on the Huskers in registering the biggest win in program history. However, since that match, Notre Dame has struggled against ranked competition, losing their last four matches against top 25 competition. 
Despite their recent prob­lems, Schlick cautions that Notre Dame is still a dangerous squad for the favored Huskers. "The scores of those last few matches are not indicative of our play," he noted. "Regard­less of whether we won or lost against those teams, the com­petition was good preparation for the tournament." 
Preparation will be essential against a Nebraska squad whose front line is one of the best in the country. The Irish victory earlier in the year was mainly a result of the team's ability to keep the Husker block off balance with accurate pass­ing. 
"The Nebraska front row is very strong, and the key to sue­cess is neutralizing that," ex­plained Schlick. "Although it sounds fundamental, our ball control on both sides of the net is important. We have to serve aggressively and pass well so they cannot set up their block." 
The Nebraska front row is anchored by sophomore sensa­tion Allison Weston, a 6-foot middle blocker that is on many all-America ballots. Weston was named to the first team All-Big Eight conference, averaging 4.6 kills and a team high .373 hitting percentage this season. 
Against the Irish, Weston led her team with 17 kills, earning a spot on the all-tournament team. However, she was out­gunned by Peters in the match and was rendered less eiTective on defense by precise Notre Dame passing. 
Big Eight Player-of-the-Year Nikki Stricker will be the Husker responsible for getting Weston the ball. Stricker. a senior setter, averaged 12.8 as­sists and 2.8 digs per game. 
Nebraska has also been aided by the outstanding play of freshman middle blocker Jen McFadden, the Big Eight New­comer-of-the-Year. McFadden averaged 3.0 kills per game and hit .337, and was especial­ly damaging to the Irish earlier in the year, registering seven kills and six blocks. 
Moil 30 minutes or less!! 
Jen, I didn't know you were so quick!!! 
IHl&IPJPV l Il~~~ JEalf~tl1~:n,, 
Love, Cindy 


If 
~ 
EDISON1~ 
-+----=t"' McKINLEY 
JEFFERSON 
2.72.-lSSf) 
rHlCKORij 
DlLLAC3EI 
sot. 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6, •~• &s""·:_t 

Friday, December 3, 1993 The Observer ·COLLEGE BASKETBALL page 17 
Oklahoma, Georgia Tech cruise 
• 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint News Editor 
The Belles are loo capture their first win season this weekend possible second as they . .. the Saint Mary's College Round Ball Tournament,>?We have according to Coach Marv turnovers 
Wood. n~ll!).l>oUJ1ds:' 
Saint Mary's will talce onD0:7' Since Pauw tonight at 8 p.m. followw leg~ ing the Carthage-Adrian ga~~ ;, have at 6 p.m. WW(i' timing.• 
"DePauw could be a tough ing, I'P<'.r•<tiin·n match," Wood said. "They'rt.;have have a new coach and a young........ blocking 
team, but that doesn't mean•;£,;,. "We' they won't be a challenge." otr1ens;e 
If the Belles defeat DePauw they will face the winner o(Jt the Carthage-Adrian game atA·\ uuou1u•5 
3:00 p.m. on Saturday for the {lt "In p championship. If they lose,;{, working on they will take on the loser of) being more n<>,h<>l>t' the previous game at 1:00 better 
p.m. for third place. ....... ""n"""'" 
"Adrian has an excellent Xb .The program with nice size t~.n(if()g$fnning· good. depth," said Woo()'; i atcorc;ling "Carthage bas also improved "Team in the past two years since we we are r 
Associated Press 
TULSA, Okla. 
Bryant Reeves dominated be­neath the basket and scored a career-high 34 points to lead No. 8 Oklahoma State over Ari­zona State 87-69 on Thursday. 
Reeves, a 7-foot junior, scored 24 points in the second half, including all 12 of the Cowboys' points during one five-minute run. The Sun Devils rotated players against him but to no avail. 
Reeves also had 16 rebounds, one shy of his career high. 
Arizona State, already hurt by injuries, shot dismally except for Isaac Burton, whose 28 points included four 3-pointers. The Sun Devils hit only 32 per­cent from the field, 27 percent from 3-point range. 
The Cowboys hit 60 percent from the field, including 39 per­cent from outside. 
Oklahoma State ended the half ahead 38-27, due mostly to an 18-0 run that started when Brooks Thompson hit a 3-point­er from the right wing with 
15:17 left. It ended six minutes 
later with the Cowboys up 22­12. 
Arizona SUite got two free throws by Jimmy Kolyszko to make it 26-18. Then, despite a shallow bench and two players already with three fouls, it launched into a full press. 
It didn't work. Fred Burley escaped for a field goal, and Scott Sutton quickly followed with a 3-pointer when left wide open on the left wing. Arizona State got no closer than nine after that. 
The Sun Devils have been plagued with injuries. Last sea­son's MVP, Mario Bennett, is out until next month, Quincy Brewer is out with a broken right kneecap and Marcell Ca­pers broke a bone in his left foot Saturday. The injuries left Arizona State with only eight players. 
GEORGIA TECH 77 WEST CAROLINA 55 
ATLANTA 
Fred Vinson, starting in place of injured James Forrest, scored 15 points as No. 17 

~.eAL. ~le 
TRADE SECRET 
273-5264 tn 5265 
S~!IJet tpJ«'t_ lOY. ~caJuJI 
7f/e ~ 'Pa«t ~, 1<~, S~, ~~,s~ (tM ~to?HaNx~~dea~au/ift~}, L~, 
ad.~ H«J~te, 
WE ALSO CARRY POLISHES, aJSME:l'ICS, ELECI'RICAL APPLIANCES AND MUCH r-uRE! Full Service Salon and Nail Services also 
Available! 
*Card is good for one year 
The University of Notre Dame is proud to be host to the second round of the NCAA Division 1 
ACTION COMES 
Women's Volleyball Tournament. 
#16 Notre Dame vs. the winner of #8 Nebraska vs. Cornell 
unday, December 5 2 p.m. JACCArena 


Georgia Tech beat Western Carolina 77-55 Thursday night. 
Forrest, the Yellow Jackets' leading scorer and rebounder, sat out with a right heel bruise. The injury was listed as not se­rious. 
Vinson capped a 12-2 second­half run with a slam dunk off Drew Barry's alley-oop pass to secure a 69-48 lead with 4:25 left. Georgia Tech (2-1) scored six more points after a Western Carolina timeout to lead by 27. 
Travis Best, who had 14 points, and Barry, who had eight points and five assists, hit 3-pointers in the flurry. 
Anquell McCollum led the Catamounts (1-1) with 12 points. 
Georgia Tech led 30-26 after a sloppy first half in which West­ern Carolina had 13 turnovers and Georgia Tech 12. 
The Yellow Jackets scored 10 of the first 12 points of the sec­ond half to start a 21-9 run. Vinson, who hit five of nine shots from the floor and five of six free throws, scored eight of his points in that rally. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
MacLeod said. "They are a very good offensive rebounding 
team.·~ 
The Eagles finished with five players in double figures. Join­ing Eisley and Curley were Paul Grant (14), Danya Abrams (12) and Malcom Huckaby (11). 
Aside from Williams and White, Notre Dame had no quality offensive production. 
Jon Ross scored nine points and Carl Cozen added eight. 
Despite the problems on both ends of the court, Notre Dame still managed to stay close in a game that could have easily been a blowout. 
"We were still there with three and a half minutes left," MacLeod said. "We kept dig­ging, digging, digging. But we're just at the beginning. In a couple of weeks we iron out the problems and we'II get bet­ter. That's the idea." 
NOTRE DAME (79): M. Williams 10-25 8·9 30, 
Hoover 2·7 0-0 6, White 6·7 0-0 14. Taylor 1·3 0·0 
2, Joe Ross 3·6 1-2 7. J. Williams 1·5 1·2 3, 
Cozen 3-7 0·0 8, Jon Ross 4·5 0-0 9, Hughes 0..0 
0-0 0, Miller 0-0 0-0 0. TOTALS: 30-66 10-13 79. 
BOSTON COLLEGE (87): Eisley 8·15 3--4 21. 
Huckaby 4·12 3-411, Curley 7·10 4·518, Jourdan 
1·2 2·3 4. Grant 7·9 0·0 14, Abram 0-3 1·2 1, 
Abrams 4·5 4·5 12, Molinsky 1-3 0-0 2, Hrobowski 
2·2 0·0 4. TOTALS: 34·61 17·24 87. 
3·polnt goals (Included In totals above): 
Notre Dame 9·21 (M. Williams 2·6. Hoover 2·6, 
White 2·3, Cozen 2·3. Jon Ross 1-1, Taylor 0-1, J. 
Williams 0·1). Boston College 2·12 (Eisley 2·5, 
Huckaby 0·3, Abram 0·2, Molinsky 0-2). Total 
louis (fouled out): Notre Dame 20 (Jon Ross), 
Boston College 16 (Grant). Rebounds: Notre 
Dame 32 (Joe Ross 8). Boston College 35 (Grant 
B). Assists: Notre Dame 13 (White 6), Boston 
College 11 (Huckaby 6). Turnovers: Notre Dame 
16 (White 5). Boston College 13 (Jourdan 4). 
Records: Notre Dame 1·1. Boston College 0·3. 
Halftime score: Boston College 52. Notre Dame 
39. Attendance: 7,832. 
i MiRAcLE Diur1i:il 
1TG-2000-Natural Herbal I 
Thermogenic Formula with I USDA Patented Chromium Pi-I I colinate. Controls Appetite & I 1Sugar Cravings. Increases En-1 I ergy & Stamina. Preserves Lean 
Body Mass while White Body Fat I I burns away naturally. GUARAN· I I TEED RESULTS! For Free 1 I Literature/Information. 
L .£a.!!, ~1!) !9.!;~6.! .J 
r-----------~~5----------------------------------------~------------~-----------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 3, 1993 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Writer 
Looking to get back on the winning track, the Notre Dame hockey team has an important home and home series this weekend against the University of Illinois-Chicago. 
The Irish travel to the Windy City on tonight to face the Flames and return home for a 7 
p.m. faceolT on Saturday at the Joyce ACC. 
Over Thanksgiving break, Notre Dame traveled to Alaska for three games. Although they returned with only one victory, the performances, on the whole, was very encouraging. 
The squad is continuing to get more production from different skaters. This balance should prove to be a valuable asset during the long CCHA season. 
One player in particular who came up big this weekend was senior goaltender Brent Lothrop. Due to the strong play of Greg Louder, Lothrop has not really had the opportunity this year to prove his ability. 
He was more than ready on Saturday night against Lake Superior State. Lothrop held the powerful Lakers scoreless for the first fifty minutes of the contest and saved 36 of the 36 shots he faced on the night. llis performance earned him the start in tonight's game. 
"He played a great game," said captain Matt Osiecki. "He's playing really well. We're confident with all three goalies on net." 
The offense has also begun to produce more in recent games. The three game total of 12 goals was the best output thus 
Rocket's tie NBAmark, move to 15-0 
By BILL BARNARD Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The Houston Hockets went into Madison Square Garden and beat the New York Knicks at their own game Thursday night, tying the record for the best start in NBA history at 15­0. 
• The Hockets, with a 94-85 victory, matched the start of the 1948-49 Washington Capitols. Hakeem Olajauwon outplayed fellow All-Star center Patrick Ewing and outscored him 37-12, including 16-0 in the third quarter when Ewing missed seven consecutive shots. The Knicks, who won 41 of their previous 46 home games and had the best defense in the NBA last season, were held to 13 points in the second period and got blown out in the third. Olajuwon hit seven of eight at­tempts in that quarter, carry­ing the Rockets to an 80-61 ad­vantage. 
Houston, which has yet to allow 100 points this season and is giving up an average of 89, can set the record of 16-0 with a victory Friday night at Atlanta. The Hawks have won nine consecutive games and are 7-0 at home. 
John Starks led the Knicks with 35 points, but he, too, missed more than half of his shots as New York was held to 37 percent shooting. Ewing was 4-for-20 after missing his final 12 attempts. 
Women's hoops travels to
Hockey hopes to rebound against UIC 
Brown Tourney 

By AMY GRIFFIN Sporu Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will compete in the Brown Tournament this weekend, with their first game on Saturday against Wisconsin. 
Depending on the outcome, the Irish will play either Wag­ner or Brown on Sunday. 
The Irish head into the tour­nament after defeating Mar­quette on Wednesday night. 90-76, to improve their record to 2-0. 
A strong performance was turned in by junior Letitia Bowen, who led the team with 24 points and 18 rebounds. 
Although the first half was a close contest, the Irish opened up the second half with two consecutive three-pointers by senior.Sherri Orlosky and con· tinued to dominate the rest of 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
the game. 
Sophomore Brett Bruininks and the Irish hockey team face Illinois­
The Notre Dame's defense Chicago this weekend. 
stepped up, causing the War­
far. 
Players such as Brett Bruiniks and Terry Lorenz, who each scored twice in Alaska, have given the Irish the necessary spark. 
In addition, Notre Dame seems to be out of their power play slump. They tallied five goais with their 14 chances in the tournament. 
The Irish realize they must continue to play well this week­end. Although UIC is in last place in the CCI-lA, their record is not indicative of their talent. 
"This is a huge weekend for us. We're expecting to win points}, and Kara Leary (1 0 points). 
"I think we're a different team than last year. We all believe we can do it," said senior Tootie Jones. "We work well together. It's everyone, not just one person." 
"Enthusiasm is up on the team. We're exdted and plan to continue our winning streak," said Orlosky. 
In Wisconsin's first two games of the season, Barb Franke has averaged 18.5 points a game and Katie Voigt 
13.5 points. Wisconsin lost their home opener against Toleldo, but came back to defeat Western Illinois. 
In competition last weekend, Yale defeated Wagner, 59-51, and Brown lost to Fairfield in overtime, 85-81. Brown re­bounded to defeat Northeastern 58-56 on Sunday. Martina Jarant had 23 points for Brown in both games and averaged 15 rebounds. 
This is the Irish's first regu­lar-season tournament action since the 1990-91 season, when the Irish captured the ti­tle at the Texaco-Hawk Classic. Irish coach Muffet McGraw is currently 8-4 in regular-season tournament play with two tournament titles. 
"We need to keep up our de­fensive pressure and execute twice. We can't be cocky but need to be confident. We're on the verge of cracking free," said Osiecki, who is the team's sec­ond leading scorer behind Jamie Ling. 
Although they played well, the Irish dropped two places in the standings to seventh place in the league. This weekend provides the opportunity for Notre Dame to pick up four quick points and start their climb in the standings. 
riors to commit 18 turnovers in the second half of action. The Irish also held Marquette to shoot 35.7% from the field and slowed their transition game. 
Orlosky finished with 19 points and freshman Beth Morgan contributed 15 points in the Irish victory. Also con­tributing double figures was senior Tootie Jones (12 
''S~'' 
6:30 pm -finals 
YOUR 
Rolf's Aquatic Center 

Saturday 12/4 
with every 
Notre Dame Hockey 
_ tanning package 
vs. Illinois-Chicago
~ purchase 
7:00 pm JACC Fieldhouse ~,___.
GET FREE TANNING! 
FOR A LIMITED TIME (WITH THIS AD) 
Expires 12/17/93 
FOR DETAILS CAU 272-7653 
BRUNO'S DELNERS!! 
Weekend Special: •12in-2items $5.70 •18 in-2items $13.00 
For Carry Out/Delivery call 
273-3890 

"We have to want to beat them more," noted Osiecki. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports
"Everything is a little bit better. 
Let's Go Irish!
This weekend should help." 
Thursday through Saturday 12/2-4 Men's and Women's Swimming hosts the National Catholic Championships 

10:00 am -trials 
SPELUNKER 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

S'~E·'5 No"\ 
~E. Sui:!E-'l::bEsN'T 
Friday, December 3, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
dot'lt l)orry, J€'0 t'V f' ad.• ~at.E'd tnY top Sf'<:r~ boVInP bP;l!OI'l 
r1ntj' ~_,., 
.., ,-,-----­
,, 1 cow-Bo'{ '. 
", Wll.i Beo ' I! 1 HeRE. 1N J 
, \ NOTI~! ./ 
f '._ -, r--/ 
' 

9 Author of "The Maid of Orleans" 
10 Four-in-hand 
11 Hold 
12 Part of a range 
13 Package-store purchase 18 Wimbledon champion: 1975 
19 Samantha's mother in "Bewitched" 
-:-+=+::c+-::-l'!!!"t-:-+=-l=i 23 Palindromic clerical title -=-+::+.-:+.:::-+7-i 24 TV's soldiers of fortune 25 Knock it off 26 Afghan rug 28 Transparent 
fabric 29 Home of the 
Krupp works 30 Butler of fiction 32 East Ender's 
wish 35 "-.-evil ... " 36 Ropes with 
deadeyes 37 Actor Montand 36 Throw off the 
scent 
BILL WATTERSON 
I'M A CONC\SE 
'«R\TER, CK .?.? 

Raymond's last day as the band's sound technician. 
OF INTEREST
~ 123 
DAVE KELLETT CALVIN AND HOBBES 
to\'{ PI\P't.R. I'S EJ{\ITLED. 
''1'(Rf\~~OSf4.UR\lS REi: f£AR5aM£ PR8>~TOR OR LOP.\1\SCAA£ SCAI/El-I.GER ?'" 

, . w w 
f._OOI<. E.LL. • • ~AT" 

~~~~ 
55 Come-what­maychoices 57 Oil-yrelding tree ofC.A. 58 Wild dog Down 
Under 59 Prntado 60 Jack-pudding 61 Pan follower 62 Think, in the 
Bard's day 
DOWN 
1 Social visrts 2Trans-, 
Pamirs range 3--Fein 4 Prodigal son, 
e.g. 5 Flock of turkeys 6 "A billboard 
lovely as-": Nash 7"Take­leave it!" 
a Kind of view .. 
taken, at times 

43 Regatta locale so A son of 44 Creator Zebulun 

45 "I'm Mavin' On" 51 Color slightly singer 52 Seneca's way DINING HALL 
47Jalopy 53 Character in 48 At the home of, "Quo Vadis?" 
in Le Mans 54 Wax _...
49 Country singer McEntire 56 Hawk parrot 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Frght till the last -"·Shak. 5 Takes by storm 
10--logrc (evasrve reasonrng) 
14 "You can't pray -"·Twarn 15 Play place for toys 16 Sitarist Shankar 17 Unexpected grft 20 Mackenzre's "-Street" 21 Cook up 22 Brblrcal second person 
23 Temperamental Met soprano: 1908-29 24 "Greet the unseen wrth -"·Browning 
27 Polrce journal 31 Ushering-in age 32 Upper, in Bonn 33 Kyrgyz city 34 Collectron of 
poems by William Morris, with "The" 
39 A king of Judah 40 Roof border 41 "-~Song 
Go ... 42 Marsh gas 44 Say yes 46 Greek Discordia 47 Baseball ploy 48 "The Real 
McCoys" star 51 Prrvate instruction 
Mlt.lo\ ..~I SA'i ~R.M,\1\0Sr..\IRS 
WERE PR£0/1..\0RS, BEC/1..\JSE. IT WO'JLD B£ SO BC1:;\lS \1' T~X J!JST A~ T\HI'I.GS 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~+.£-t:-B ~~;;.+.::;:~H 
-=+:::+:-tr.7t 
-SPORTS 
page 20 Friday, December 3, 1993 
N CAAs are Irish volleyball's turn to shine 
No. 8 Nebraska visits JACC Sunday 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Sports Writer 
Since day one, the No. 17 Notre Dame volleyball team has had the goal of hosting a game in the NCAA tournament. 
On Sunday afternoon, that goal becomes a reali­ty, as the Irish host No. 8 Nebraska (26-5) at 2 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
However, having marched to a 25-7 record in the regular season, the Irish are not content with just hosting the match, but are striving to prolong their season by advancing to the regionals. 
"The team is really excited," stated senior co­captain Janelle Karlan, who enters the postseason as Notre Dame's career assists leader. "Right now it's do or die, so we've got to give it all we have." 
The Irish will need every bit of that effort if they hope to upset the Huskers for the second time this season. Nebraska advanced in the first round by thrashing Cornell 15-7, 15-4, 15-1, but was sur­prised earlier this season by a tenacious Irish squad, falling 15-8, 15-7, 3-15, 15-10. 
"You don't beat a team like Nebraska unless you play at a higher level of competition," explained assistant coach Steve Schlick. "Everyone has to raise their game across the board." . 
Notre Dame will look especially for good pro­duction from junior outside hitter Christy Peters. The All-America candidate proved to be the dif­ference in the last meeting between the two squads, hitting for a match high 19 kills while adding 21 digs on her way to MVP honors.· 
"We feel we have nothing to lose entering the match, and we have many opportunities awaiting The Observer/Jake Peters 

Irish can gain respect with win over 'Huskers 
It all began so well. A few weeks ago, the Notre Dame fall sports were enjoying their most success­ful campaign ever. No less than than five teams were ranked in the top 25. Now only one has a shot at a national championship. 
First it was the women's soccer k ·.. 
··. team, which many thought had the ~ \ . best chance to go all the way. Timothy
However, after an NCM slight and bad luck against upstart George Seymour Mason, the Irish dropped out in the first round, their goal of reaching the final four stopping u.nreason­ably early. 
This was only a prelude to the most excruciating loss. The football team teased fans with the hope of an unexpected championship by a squad that sup­posedly didn't have the necessary marquee players. Their dreams were shattered by the most un-mar­quee of opponents, a walk-on kicker. 
That leaves only the No. 17 volleyball team with a shot at going all the way. Sure it's a long shot, but if nothing else, the team can vindicate some of the dis­appointment from earlier this fall by advancing be­yond their first game in the NCAAs. 
Amidst the fervor surrounding the soccer and foot­ball teams, the volleyball squad has quietly compiled its best season in years, and has gained some mea­sure of respect in a national scene dominated by California schools. 
From the beginning, coach Debbie Brown and her squad have asserted that they are able to compete with any team in the country. They have proved this, playing teams ranked in the top ten closely throughout the season. 
Now it is time to take the next step, which involves 
Junior Nicole Coates and the Irish volleyball team host Nebraska in see VOLLEYBALL I page 16 NCAA Tourney action Sunday. see SEYM0 UR I page 16 
Aaron Taylor wins 
Eagles fly too high for Irish 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Boston College held off a late Notre Dame rally to win 87-79 Thursday in Newton, Mass. 
The Eagles led throughout, but Monty Williams scored two of his game-high 30 points with 11 minutes left to cut B.C.'s lead to five. 
But the hosts responded with a 9-3 run and Notre Dame never threatened again . 
• 
"We were on their floor and they couldn't knock us out," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "That says a lot about this team." 
After a sluggish start, fresh­man point guard Admore White kept the Irish close, scoring 14 first half points on 6 of 7 shoot­ing from the field, including 2 of 3 from 3-point range. 
But Notre Dame could never overcome their early deficit. The Irish trailed 52-39 at half­time. 
White didn't score in the sec­ond half and his absence 
"Admore had a great first half, I just wish he continued to shoot the ball," MacLeod said. "He looked like he was on the way to a big night. When he's hot like that I'd like to see him continue to shoot." 
But White had his hands full on the other end of the court. 

Lombardi Award 
By MICHAEL LUTZ . 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Notre Dame offensive tack­le Aaron Taylor, accustomed to beating defensive linemen, did it again Thursday night when he won the Lombardi Award as the nation's top col­lege lineman. 
He beat out three defensive players for the honor -nose guards Sam Adams of Texas A&M and Rob Waldrop of Ari­zona and linebacker Derrick Brooks of Florida State. 
Taylor, 6-foot-4 and 299 pounds, didn't play football until his junior year of high school, but he showed enough to be recruited by Notre Dame and was starting by his sopho­
more year.
Boston College senior guard problems in the middle, with "When I was a kid, every­Howard Eisley was the fresh­stocky Boston College senior body expected me to be goodman's difficult defensive as­Bill Curley. 
because I was bigger than any­signment. Curley powered in 18 points 
one else and that kind of
The veteran connected on 8 and pulled down 7 rebounds. 
scared me off," Taylor said.
of 15 shots and finished with a Joe Ross was Notre Dame's "But when I finally got startedteam-high 21 points. only true force inside, grabbing I really liked it."
"Eisley took Admore to school eight rebounds. a couple times, but that's some­"We battled their big people 
A superb run-blocker, thing (White) will file away and about as well as we could," 
Taylor helped Notre Dame learn from," MacLeod said. 
average 429.5 yards a game Notre Dame had its biggest 
this season. He's started 29
see IRISH I page 17 
straight games dating back to 1991. 
"At Notre Dame we are a run-oriented team," Taylor said. "1 take a lot of pride in run blocking. I don't get that much out of pass blocking but I'm working on it." 
Taylor is the fourth Notre Dame player to win the award and the second in three years. Chris Zorich won the honor in 1990. 
"He was the best at that time and I had practiced against him a lot," Taylor said. "He had a lot of good advice for me." 
Other Notre Dame winners were Walt Patulski in 1972 and Ross Browner in 1977. 
Adams anchored the Aggie Wrecking Crew defense to a No. 3 ranking nationally in total defense. Adams had 79 tackles, 14 for losses of 51 yards and 10 1!.! sacks as the Aggies rolled to their third SWC title. He forced five fum­bles, recovered three others and one resulted in a score. 
Brooks played through sev­eral injuries this season and finished with 77 tackles, including seven for losses and two saces. 
Inside SPORTS 

Hockey 
Women's Basketball Saint Mary's Head coach Ric Schafer 

Belles' hoops hosts lead the Irish against 
Letitia Bowen and the 
Round Ball Tournament,
Irish travel to this week­
Illinois-Chicago this still looking for their first 
end's Brown Tourney. 
weekend. 
win. 
see page 18 see page 17see page 18 

