


Thursday, September 2, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 4 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Card provides discounts at area businesses 
By EMILY HAGE Assistant News Editor 
The Fighting Irish Savings Card is now available free to students, faculty, and staff, as a result of a joint effort between Allied Advertising/Publishing and Student Government's Special Projects Committee, according to the committee Executive Coordinator, Suzy Fodor. 
The card offers discounts for approximately 15 nearby busi­nesses, including restaurants such as Papa John's, Domi­noes, Bibbler's, Blimpie, and Bonnie Doon. Other businesses included are: American Cab Company, Instant Lube, The Hair Connection, the World's Greatest Laundromat, and Scott's Photography, said Fodor. 
The card is valid through August of 1994. It is unlimited, but not good with other offers. 
After the card's success at Louisiana State University and Tulane University, Allied pre­sented the card last spring to Notre Dame through Student" Body President Frank Flynn, according to Fodor. 
"They wanted to target a good student body that would get involved in something like the card," Fodor said. 
Undergraduates on campus will find their Savings Card in their mailboxes; off-campus students can pick up their cards at the LaFortune Infor­mation Desk; faculty and staff can obtain cards through the Faculty Senate. 

By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
The parents of Colleen Hipp, a member of the Notre Dame women's swim team who was killed in the 1992 team bus crash, have settled their case against the University and the United Limo bus company. 
Gerald and Ann Hipp of St. Louis reached the settlement in mid-August through mediation. The settlement seeks compen­sation for the death of their daughter who was a 19-year­old freshman at the time of the January 24, 1992 accident, ac­cording to documents filed in 
U.S. District Court and South Bend attorney John Hamilton, who represents the Hipps. 
Terms of the mediation agreement involving both the United Limo bus company and bus driver Howard Dixon are to remain confidential, according to mediator Gene Jones, a La­Porte attorney. 
"The parties involved were able to negotiate with the assis­tance of a trial lawyer through mediation before the money was spent on going to trial," said Hamilton. 
The mediation was conducted under the rules of the Indiana Accelerated Dispute Resolution, which was put into practice in early 1992. The method is purely an escorted conversa­tion where the mediator serves as a catalyst to exchange ideas 
The Observer/ Brian McDonough· 
and is based upon the fact that

Idyllic Afternoons all cases settle eventually, said ·Hamilton.
A student relaxes outside Farley Hall and enjoys the last days of sum­
"From our perspective, the 
mer. 
Indiana procedure operated 


Hipp family settles suit over '92 bus crash 
effectively to lead to an agree­ment that is appropriate from the prospective of all parties," he said. 
Because the case is in federal court, the parties did not have to use the Indiana settlement procedures, said Hamilton. 
The lawyers had a 15 September deadline to me doc­uments dismissing the case, he said. 
"The case has been settled," was the only comment from Hammond attorney David 
Jensen,  who  represented  
Unite-d  Limo  and  Howard  
Dixon.  

The case, which was origi­nally flied in state court in St. Louis but transferred to federal court in South Bend, charged the defendants with reckless negligence in the accident which occurred on the Indiana Toll road as the team was re­turning from a meet at North­western University. The acci­dent resulted in the loss of life of Hipp and freshman Meghan Beeler and the serious injury of then-freshman Haley Scott. Many of the other 34 passen­gers were also injured. 
The suit charged that Dixon was driving at an excessive speed for the conditions of the snow and ice covered highway and was unable to control the bus as it changed lanes, which caused it to spin 180 degrees and flip over into a ravine. United Limo and Notre Dame were also accused of negli­gence in the case. 
An additional suit filed by 
see SEITLED I page 6 

Francis: Graduate students can anticipate productive ye~u 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 
A productive orientation has set the 1993-94 Graduate Stu­dent Union (GSU) on a course to achieve weightier goals than ever before as it plans to tackle prerogatives including a solu­tion to graduate student spousal health care and increasing activities and awareness of all women's groups on campus, according to GSU president Rita Francis. · 
"The GSU is ofT to its best or­ganized and aggressive start in recent history," said Reynold Nesiba, orientation chairper­son. 
The most important p"roject on the GSU agenda is the estab­lishment of a University assist­ed health care program for the spouses and children of stu­dents as a solution to the high costs of unassisted insurance, said Francis. The GSU quality of life committee oversees this matter. 
A temporary solution was implemented this year in the form of a $15,000 fund from the graduate school at the St. Joseph's Medical Center to which spouses and children of graduate students .earning less than $15,000 per year can ap­ply. 
"We hope to hold several events which facilitate discus­sion regarding graduate health care needs in an effort to in­crease the awareness for health care coverage of mar­ried graduate students," said Francis. 
The GSU also hopes to in­crease the awareness of women's groups on campus in order to better integrate women into an academic envi­ronment, said Nesiba. 
With this intent, the GSU is operating a concession stand on Saturday, September 4 at the east entrance of LaFortune with proceeds to benefit the women's resource committee, in addition to the GSU and the Center for the Homeless. 
But the GSU has already scored a victory with the Uni­versity's summer announce­ment. to build a child care cen­ter. Offering a service that the GSU has long requested, the Early Childhood Development Center will open its doors in the fall of 1994 and give equal con­sideration to the children of facurty, staff, students, and administrators. 
Also new this year is the com­plete revamping of GSU's com­munication tools with the most noted changes coming in its 
see GSU I page 6 

The Observer/John Bingham Nathan Hatch, vice-president and dean of the Graduate School, talks to graduate students at a GSU brunch earlier this week. The GSU anticipates a successful year, with many new activities. 


Thursday, September 2, 1993
page2 The Observer • INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

See it now­before it is 

News Production Meredith McCullough Susan Marx Jackie Moser 
Sports Jonathan Jensen Accent Allison Ebel Viewpoint Rolando de Aguiar Graphics Lab Tech Brendan Regan John Bingham 
The Obsc:rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduerion rights are resc:rved. 
Israel, Jordan make progress towards peace settlement 
AMMAN, Jordan 

Arab Jewish Jordan is close to cont:;luding a seHiements seHiements "statement of principles" with Israel 
• 0-5,000 ° that would mean progress toward an 
• 5,000-70,000 0 Approximate population figures • 70,000-125,000 0
eventual peace treaty between the na­
for occupied territories:
tions, officials said Wednesday. Such a declaration would be the second major 
West Bank 
breakthrough in Middle East peace 
O Israeli settlers: 120,000
talks since they began 22 months ago. There was no comment from Israel, 
• •••Palestinians: 1million 
however, on Jordan's announcement. Israel's Cabinet has approved an accord to give limited self-rule to 
Israeli settlers: 4,000

Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho. The Palestine Liberation Organization's largest faction was expected to announce a decision on Thursday. Nonetheless, both sides expected the accord to be signed, and their progress may have created momentum else­where. Jordanian Information Minister Maan Abu Nouwar said the dec­laration would mark "one step for­ward," but that a formal peace treaty with Israel might "take a long time." Jordan's King Hussein has repeatedly said he would not make peace with Israel except as part of a comprehen­sive Arab settlement. Such a settle­ment could be close, now that Israel and the Palestinians are about to sign an agreement. The king fears that the proposal on limited Palestinian auton­
ISRAEL

omy could backfire and cause new tur­moil in the region, and possibly trigger another wave of Palestinian refugees 
pouring into his resource-poor king­Source: Peace Now Settlement Watch APN/m. J. Castello dom. 
Pope goes to Baltics as conflict rises 
MOSCOW 
As Pope John Paul II begins his first visit to the former Soviet Union this week, churches are packed with wor­shipers and religion is clearly on the rise. But so is reli­gious conflict. The pope is scheduled to spend seven days in the three newly independent Baltic states of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, which are home to more than 3.5 mil­lion Catholics. He begins the tour w.,Bl'i@tw'''""""··~mm Saturday in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius. Although he will not set foot in Russia, John Paul's visit is being watched with concern by the Russian Orthodox Church, which opposes the . flood of foreign missionaries into the former Soviet Union and has accused the Vatican in the past of encroaching . on its turf. As 290 million former Soviet citizens emerge from seven decades of religious repression and state­sponsored atheism, the competition for their souls is not just theological but political. In Russia, nationalist legisla­tors last week amended the Law on Freedom of Conscience to bolster the 60-million-member Russian Orthodox Church and restrict other religions. The new law says the Ministry of Justice can deny permission for foreign religious groups to operate in Russia if they engage in "coercive" proselytizing. 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-WeatherQI) forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 2. 

INDIANA Weather 
Thursday, Sept. 2 

ILL 
• 
~ 

ti!'& 


FRONTS: 
...a.....a...
............... -.Ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
PrNOUnl 
H L a ~ rnJ 0 . ~ ~~~ 1:) u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE CLOUDY 
ViiA8aocltt.d' p,.,.. 



Aspin: More defense closings critical 
WASHINGTON 
Defense Secretary Les Aspin warned Wednesday that additional base closings will be required under a new, post-Cold War defense strategy that spares the Navy and Marine Corps from deep military cuts. With the Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman standing by his side at a crowded briefing, Aspin unveiled the Pentagon's five-year proposal that retains a relatively high level of forces and places added emphasis on developing modern weapons. As a result, more domestic military bases will need to be closed beyond the next round of scheduled closings in 1995, Aspin said. "It's very tough to do. It's a very diffi­cult part of this thing. But this is absolutely critical," the secretary said of cutting the military's infrastructure. The new strategy turns the military's focus from countering the one-time Soviet superpower to fighting regional con­flicts, providing humanitarian relief as it has done in Somalia and acting as peacekeepers. Gen. Colin Powell, in his final weeks as chairman of the Joint Chiefs, described how the Cold War threats of the Warsaw Pact and Soviet Union have been replaced by territorial strife and renegade leaders. "Almost all of my adult life, we worried about World War III ... a Soviet empire that had tentacles that reached around the world," said Powell. Now, "history and central casting provided me with new" demons, such as Iraqi President Saddam Hussein and Somali warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid, Powell said. 

City H L lndlanapolls 76 65 New York 90 73 AUanta 95 74 
Jerusalem 66 70 Paris 75 50 Boston 84 6\ 
London 72 57 Philadelphia 90 70 Chicago 77 54 
Los Angeles 66 67 Rome 84 55 Columbus 79 65 
Madrid 90 59 Seattle 77 53 Dallas 93 70 
Minneapolis 74 51 South Bend 77 51 Moscow 57 41 

By JENNIFER HABRYCH Saint Mary's Editor 
Beginning with this year's sophomore class, students will have an opportunity to "design their own major at Saint Mary's, according to Patrick White, associate dean of facul­ty. 
The program is an effort to promote independence in stu­dent learning and will provide a connection among disciplines, White said. 
"It's a program for the stu­dent who has a clear sense of what they want to do. It's an ideal program for students whose interests don't fit neatly into one major or even into a double major," he said. 

11¥1'! bti<-tUP.ff' ;tfar-ia~ cf~ar-ie? £v-el( tlttof~.jltt 1oa ~e l(tJ«< 20 1oa 'IIal«1~ be o~ t'ttleftr-f. LPu-e, Oar/a.lfrl#PIK, !/lie, Joe-O.l(rlJo/r-1(  
Todos Estan lnvitados All Are Welcome Celebrante Padro Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 0MPUS MINISTRY Sponsored byCampus Mimstry Coro Primavera ife Nuestra Senora  

Students will be required to chart the specific courses that they will take and provide rea­sons for taking these specific courses by spring break of their sophomore year in a formal proposal. 
The student's proposal will be submitted to a four-member Student-Designed Major (SDM) committee who will administer the major and monitor the stu­dent's project if it is approved by the committee and the Col­lege's Curriculum Committee. 
Applicants for the program must have at least a 3.2 GPA to apply. SDM's must also com­plete the College's core re­quirements in either a bachelor of the arts or a bachelor of sci­ence program. 
"The program is best for the self-motivated and independent student who is able to work on their own and make connec­tions between subjects and think in linkages," said Marcia Rickard, assistant professor of art who was involved in the planning of the SDM. "The stu­dent has to take charge of their intellectual development." 
The program consists of 30 credit hours of which at least eight courses are to be taken from the 300 and 400 level. Students who participate in the SDM must also complete the College's senior comprehensive and advanced writing pro­ficiency requirements which will also be tailored by the committee and the student to fit the SDM. 

LAST CHANCE! 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1994-95 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the infon;national meeting TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7 -7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 
ALL 


GRADUATE STUDENTS PICNIC 
Thursday, September 2 
5:00 -7:00 pm 
.a!.....1lN 
Fischer, O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences Community Center 
Soonsored by: Campus Ministry FOG Residences Staff Graduate Students Union 
Families Welcome! 
I • • 


I..:~-; 
r 
)... 
·-·

,L,',•\ .
.--:,···

•• 3-_ -:-=:::r:~~ 
c--=~········1 





,,_~ 
•• -;. '"J ....
•'/-_,,


/-~\/! 
·' ' 
./I ' . 

--·. ,}
.. . .. 
~ . 


~ ·' 
----~­

r 
page 4 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 2, 1993 

'Forces of death prevail;' Bosnian peace talks collapse 
By DUSAN STOJANOVIC 
Associated Press Writer 
GENEVA 

Bosnian peace talks abruptly broke ~ff :ednesday j~st as it ~e~:~n :hee v:~:~~ga ;~!:oa:~ cord on how to carve up the 
country. · p ·ct 1.
Bosman res1 ent A 1ja 

Izetbegovic said the peace plan on the table failed to guarantee the survival of a future Muslim 
state. Other leaders accused Izetbegovic and his government 
of making unreasonable demands. 
"The forces of death prevail," said Bosnian Croat leader Mate Bohan. 
"Unfortunately the war will continue, .. Croatian President Franjo Tudjman said as he left 
the meeting. 
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic said the collapse of the year-long talks "could trig­ger the division of Bosnia" between the Serbs and Croats. 
Conference al!Jtalk~bu~~ittle7action 
ByCLARENUWS ~iaced Pres!~ Wrirer 
;:;0... 

GENJWA With Vl'deo images of·•·oun· d~ 
H

ed children and mutilated corpses flickering in the back­ground, more than 150 na.tions agreed Wednesday op.~;,Jhe need to stop crimes against
·ttle
humanity but•offered 1·1 hope On how to do it. 

"We refuse to accept that war, violence and hatred spread daily throughout the world and fundamental rights of the individual are violated in an increasingly grave and systematic fashion:· ${iifl. a declaration issued at the end of a three-day conference· in 
Gen~~a aimed ~r~~proving ery" to achieve this -a
fi th
protection or war victims. process . at may drag on for "Wi:l:A~efuse t() !l-CCept that years. 
wounp:~d are sMwp no Jl11U·cy~;r\">'''The conference is not going children massacred, women ito have any major, specific re­
ed ­
rap • prisoners tortured, vic~ sults but it has been worth­tims denied 'elementary hu· while because it has focused manitarian assistance ... popu•>+ attention at very high levels on latio~ illegally ~i~placed and,m:t~:tP:e imp~rta.pcc:l of protecting countries laid to waste.'' But0> war victuns';'' said U.S. dele­
the conference, organized by tti gate Warren Zimmermann, in the International Committee of charge of refugee affairs at the · 
th d 
eRe Cross, was expected State Department. yieldf~yv realre~l,ll~, . . .The ICRJ; says recent con­
In~!t.eir declaration, . ... have been unprecedented mentS' pledged to ''ensure that ii in their brutality, Throughout war crinies are duly prosecut-•" the conference, television ed and do not go 1lJlpunisbed.'' ''~monitors showed shocking But 1Q.e:y1'nerely. d suppott: Jm~ges atrocities .•• and for '~tti.etimeJy ,. abllshrnen ,•·· ... ppeal.. for respect of 
of appropriate legal machin;t> humanitarian law. 
in northwestern Bosnia. Wednesday in central Mostar, ating table. But Tudjman 
"The minimum of minimums breaking an hours-old truce in warned that a peaceful set­which we put before the confer­the embattled southwestern tlement would now take "weeks ence would have allowed an city. The attack could not be in­if not months." 
Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic said he still held out hope that the current peace package would be signed. 
But European Community mediator Lord Owen voiced fears that fighting would now increase in many parts of Bosnia, particularly central Bosnia where Muslim forces have been battling Croats in a land grab. 
"The greatest danger facing Bosnia-Herzegovina now is fragmentation, anarchy, war· lords and chaos and it's not that far away," he said. He said the international community had no alternative plan to offer to stop the bloodshed. 
American special envoy Charles Redman lamented that the parties had been close to an agreement when the rupture came. "It's a tragedy they could not come to a solution," he said, adding that he accepted "lzetbegovic's reasons." 

Thursday, September 2, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL EDUCATION page 5 


Struggle for funds may delay first day ofsome schools 
By SARAH NORDGREN 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 

New shoes, pencils and book bags are in place and 411,000 Chicago school students are ready for class. But for the fifth time in 10 years, the schools may not be ready for them. 
The problem? Not enough money. The solution? Any­body's guess. 
The trouble is not unique to Chicago, as school districts in New York, West Virginia, Col­orado and Pennsylvania have also struggled to balance bud­gets with too few dollars this year. 
"Nationally, there's this ... lack of recognition on the im­portance of making an invest­ment in the educational future of our children," said Elaine Simon, a University of Pennsyl­vania anthropologist and edu­cation expert. 
Chicago's school system-the nation's third largest-shut down Wednesday, required by law to close because it didn't have a balanced budget in place. 
The closure idled only about 5,000 summertime students. But all of the district's students would be affected if it isn't re­solved by the time fall classes are to begin next Wednesday. 
On Thursday, the state Legis­lature was to consider Mayor Richard Daley's proposal for $300 million in borrowing and union concessions to balance the budget. 
The school district also nego­tiated Wednesday with its teachers, whose contract ex­pired at midnight on Tuesday. If the negotiations fail, the dis­trict could be hit by its fifth walkout since 1983. 
"For the last four years, the board has used smoke and mir­rors to balance the budget," said Joan Jeter Slay, associate director of an education advo­cacy organization, Designs for Change. "There is just no sub­stitute for a consistent, reliable source of funding." 
Consistent, reliable funding is at a premium elsewhere: 
• 
In New York, voters rejected nearly 29 percent of the bud­gets offered by school boards this year. Three large Long Is­land districts will be among those operating on austerity budgets this fall. One effect: fewer school buses that some fear could mean greater traffic problems on already congested roadways. 

• 
Colorado's 176 school dis­tricts will receive about 4 per­cent less for each student this year. That amounts to $158 less for each of the state's 612,000 students. 

• 
A midyear spending cut im­posed by West Virginia's gov­


ernor will cost school districts $13 million. 
• 
In Philadelphia, a $60 mil­lion funding shortage will mean the elimination of all junior var­sity sports teams-and half of the city's varsity teams. 

• 
In Michigan, the state Legis­lature approved a $3.5 billion school aid bill designed to keep schools operating at about cur­rent levels for one more year. But this fall, the Legislature is expected to devise a new fund­ing system to replace the old one based on property taxes. 


Schools once largely depended on local property taxes for their funding but now count on states for a bigger share of their bud­get. 
i 

Stats suggest students weak in basic math 
By ROBERT NAYLOR Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 

Few students in the United States can solve math prob­lems that require more than an educated guess, statistics unveiled Wednesday by the Department of Education show. 
Only 16 percent of fourth­graders, eight percent of eighth-graders and nine per­cent of high school seniors tested could answer mathematics questions requir­ing problem solving skills, said the department's National Center for Education Statistics. 
The results show that stu­dents are "getting few oppor­tunities to participate in prob­lem solving in classrooms," said John Dossey, a visiting math professor at the U.S. Military Academy and former president of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. 
Nearly 250,000 students at­tending 10,000 schools in ev­ery state took the test in 1992. 
Fourth graders were asked to use words and pictures to show that a boy named Jose who ate half a pizza could have eaten more pizza than a friend, Ella, who ate half of another pizza. 
The answer is Jose could 
have eaten half of a larger 
pizza. But less than a fourth of 
the students, 23 percent, gave 
a satisfactory or better 
answer. Nearly half, 9 percent, 
gave an incorrect answer. 
Seven percent did not respond. 
The tests were an extension 
of the National Assessment of 
Educational Progress exams, 
administered last year. Those 
results, released in January, 
showed that students were 
getting better at math 
although nearly 40 percent of 
those tested still failed to 
reach basic proficiency levels. 
But the new tests didn't give 
students a choice of answers, 
as standardized tests tradi­
tionally do. Instead, they were 
required to draw pictures and 
diagrams and write explana­
tions of their answers. 
"Here, we see what a student 
is capable of doing," Dossey 
said, adding that a multiple­
choice test question with five 
potential answers gives the 
student a 20 percent chance of 
guessing the right response. 


• 
(Offer expires only when you do.) 

Get an AT&T Universal MasterCard and you'll be eternally grateful. Because it's more than just acredit card that's free of annual fees forever. It's also an AT&T Calling Card that currently gives you a 10% discount on already competitive AT&T Calling Card rates. It's all part of The i Plan:M 
•  To apply, come by our booth on campus or call  ----- 
THE,PLAN~  1800 438-8627.  ==== - 
ATI.T  

------·----·~---~--------~ --­
P"''lllll_..._.._____..,.____.,.......__~--.----------------------­
page6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Settled 
continued from pagel 

Beeler's parents, Gordon and Kathy Beeler, is pending in St. Joseph Circuit Court after un­successful mediation two weeks ago. This case does not name Notre Dame, only Dixon and United Limo. 
Attorneys for the Beeler fam­ily are attempting to recover sanctions from the United Limo attorneys for failing to negoti­ate the mediation in good faith as according to Indiana rules, said Hamilton. A September 20 
-

..........~, 
-,,.. 
The Obsf~rver,IJohn 

Traditional Dillon hunt sends freshmen scrambling 
Dillon juniors Brian Brucks and Kevin Lynyack cheer on a freshman participating in the Dillon Scavenger Hunt. The hunt was a part of Dillon's freshman initiation. 
GSU 
continued from page 1 
new monthly newsletter, which is now entirely underwritten by the St. Joseph's Medical Center, said Francis. The GSU was also able to hire a part time secre­tary for its office. 
The GSU plans to continue upon the improvements that least year's administration made to the Travel Grant pro­gram, said Francis. 
GSU has earmarked $10,000 for the program, which the graduate school has matched with an additional $10,000. 

The Observer is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 




Circulation Drivers 
Must be available between 11 AM and 1 PM at least one day per week. 
Contact Brian Kennedy at 631-5313 or foe Riley at 634-1780. 
Thursday, September 2, 1993 
hearing for the issue has been set. 
A settlement conference be­fore a magistrate in federal court has been set for Septem­ber 16 in a damage suit filed by Alicia Feehery, a swim team member injured in the crash, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
A status conference is set October 12 in the suit filed by Deborah Brady and Cynthia Stafford, swim team members also injured in the crash. Notre Dame lawyer Gerald Lutkus told the South Bend Tribune that Stafford's claims have been settled but the documents have not yet been filed. 

Footbal/1993 
Look for Northwestern insert in Friday's paper 

~RISH IMPORTS Direct from Ireland 
Sweaters • Jewelry • Music • Gifts 
tttl.ne Stu.dent C '3.yo el]te ~ Sorin Room .,. 

THIS WEEKEND ONLY 
/ Thurs 3 -8 p.m. Fri 9 a.m. -9 p.m. Sar 8 a.m. -5 p.m. ~ 
GREATER COLUMBUS CONVENTION CENTER 400 NORTH HIGH STREET COLUMBUS. OHIO 43215 (614) 461·0346 FAX (614) 224·3054 






Go Irish! 
Ernst & Young wishes Notre Dame a successful 1993 football season! 
In celebration of this season's kickoff, we will be hosting a tailgate on Saturday, September 4. We are looking forward to this opportunity to cheer on the Fighting Irish with Accounting and Business Students and Faculty. 
Come celebrate with Ernst & Young! 
illERNST&YOUNG 
An equal opportunity. employer 
• r t t r I If I I' •' 

-~-------~---.....-------.-~...._----~---~-~--~ 

_____, 
Thursday, September 2, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT page? 

= ~ 
IR·T ' 

~ 

The Official Football Shirt of the Notre Dame Student Body 

Irish Sea Irish Sea 

Join the 12TH Man 
Available at: 
Football Ticket Sales Dining Halls LaFortune Information Desk The Notre Dame Bookstore The Alumni Association JACC Varsity Shop 
~Ass~. 
f.M. ~­
All Proceeds Benefit Charitable and Student Organizations < .1ft' g 
--------------~----------~· ---~-----------------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, September 2, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Bwincss Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
New. Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager.....................Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent nowspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The nows is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Nows Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the viows of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Vi<Wpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­municy and ro all readcn. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNi<Wpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
s~'!jPhoto  631-4543 631-5323  Systems/OTS Office Manager  631-8839 631-7471  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Abortion problem complex 
Pearson's effort to solve falls far short ofgoal 
Dear Editor: 
Though not a freshman or transfer student, I re"ad Paul Pearson's column (The Observer, August 31) on abor­tion with some interest after he proclaimed, "1, Paul, will now reveal the easiest way to start an argument at Notre Dame." 
Taking into account that it was for "the benefit of all fresh­men and transfer students" that Mr. Pearson was engaging in this writing exercise, I quick­ly realized that he was being facetious at the least, given the premise that it takes an argu­ment to start an argument. I was at a loss to discern any­thing which could pass the muster call for an argument, logically valid or much less one of sufficient reasonableness to command the assent of any intelligent human being, or even a freshman. 
Mr. Pearson uses his firm grasp of the chain of premise and conclusion to fight against the evils of the supposed dichotomy between people who are either "pro-life" or "pro­choice." But, this condemna­tion of the dichotomy is, in real­ity, an attempt to appear mod­erate when Mr. Pearson is clearly on the "pro-choice" side, though he obfuscates it with a silly vision of a liberal utopia which requires, of course, "reliable health care available everywhere," that "sex is not a taboo subject," and that "abortion is not ille­gal." 
Mr. Pearson qualifies the let­ter by claiming that abortion 
DOONESBURY 
would be "unheard of" but proposing a possible world in such a way does not mitigate the implicit premise upon which that possible world is built, and which has definite applications to the actual situa­tion; namely that his possible world asserts that given an ide­alized set of conditions, the premise of the (sound) legality of abortion fails to apply or obtain only in virtue of the fact that such a condition exists, and not because of any intrinsic problems found in the concept of legal abortion itself. But since such a condition does not actually exist, Mr. Pearson, by default, must necessarily be pro-choice. 
Besides this, he contradicts himself outright. If there were a place where health care was available everywhere, and where sex was not talked about behind closed doors, how does it follow that abortions would be unheard or? 
Mr. Pearson, by force of his own premises, would have to overtly contradict his supposed moderate position by affirming the pro-life position. Because health care is available, and because we can talk about how to put a condom on or whatev­er, it does not follow that there will be birth control failure, and unwanted pregnancies {his peculiar understanding of causality notwithstanding). 
Given this fact, that there would still be unwanted preg­nancies, either one of two things would have to be the 
THeR/3 HA5N'T OH,H8Y,
I M&fi?I3/...Y RA/!31; 

f3WJ TIMB! I'~ I'V& 0/3­
77-/C F055!!311A1Y. 

fJIZN aJ A veRY V!OU5t-Y
17'5 &EN Yt;t~RS 

f?tMANf?/NG UPS&TYOU. 
5/NC/3 YW'V&GON8 
CAR&tl< I/1.1SORR'I,
WTUJ!THA ta1WW. 
TRACI<.! IiL-fJCOrF. 
\ 
\ 

case in order to necessitate the conclusion that abortion would be unheard of: 1) Women would have to keep their babies, wanted or not 2) That "open" talk about sex would actually have to be about absti­nence, the only 100% sure birth control method. Ironically, this forces Mr. Pearson firmly on the "fanatical" pro-life side, though he is a disguised pro­choice person. 
Mr. Pearson concludes his lit­erary magnum opus with the advice to "Stop quoting Humanae Vitae and the Constitution, and start making the ideas contained within them reality." 
Men far more intelligent than Mr. Pearson (and myselO have known that the Constitution can be understood only in the con­text of the Declaration of Independence. It closes, "And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and our sacred Honor." 
For those of us who are pro­life, that pledge is the most important between us and those who are the most inno­cent and most needing of safe­guarding-children who have yet to be born into the world of sin and base stupidity that con­stitutes the human condition in all its manifestation. 
Andrew Feske Law School August 31, 1993 
· 

Senators encourage student involvement 
Dear Editor: 
Welcome back! 

We hope you all had a fun summer and are looking for­ward to the new semester. As your newly elected Student Senators, we want this year to be a great one. Unfortunately, most people are not aware of Senate or the role it plays in student life. 
There are six senators from five districts, including one from God, Mod, North and South Quads, and two from Off­Campus (the off-campus sena­tors fill one Senate seat). Senators are here not only to represent their respective Quads, but also to work with the Administration and various organizations to better student life at the University. 
As your only elected Quad representatives, we urger you to take full advantage of the positions we hold. Whether it be D-6 parking on South and God Quads, crowded access to dorms on Mod Quad, drainage problems on North Quad, secu­rity off-campus, or any University-wide concern, we are here to serve and represent you. 
Contact your senator to let him/her know what your con­cerns are. Please help us to help you by getting involved. 
Dana Anderson Mod Quad Jennifer Halbach God Quad Erin King South Quad Sean SuJlivan North Quad Tanya Bulakowski Rich Toohey Off-Campus Student Senators September!, 199 3 

With all this attention, Lou is getting desperate. Vent your frustration in Viewpoint. 
PO Box Q • Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IT'5CAU&P 
fJtNIAL.. 
7HI3R&AR& 
WHOl&&XJKS 
Af30/JTIT. 
\ 

T
here is only one way to achieve happiness on this terrestrial ball, and that is to have either a clear con­science, or none at all. 
Ogden Nash 
,. 




:ACCE-NT 
Thursday, September 2, 1993 page 9 

Su111111er Box Office Hits 
Despite the rising South Bend heat, summers coming to a close end and so are the 
movies that came with it. Catch these movies reviewed and displayed here while you 
can; before Video Watch gets to them. 


ByJIMDOWD Accent Movie Critic 

In the Line of Fire: This political thriller starring Clint Eastwood was one of the best fllms of the summer season. 
Eastwood plays an aging secret service agent named Frank Horrigan. His charac­ter was one of JFK's bodyguards during the assassination. Thus, when news spread that a demented killer (Mitch Leary) was planning to assassinate the current presi­dent, Horrigan demanded to be assigned to the case. 
The relationship between Horrigan and Mitch Leary quickly becomes the central plot. Leary calls Horrigan at home and at work teasing and baitng him. The plot con­cerns the re-election campaign of the pres­ident as he stops at different cities. We get an inside look at the secret service and the stress associated with the job. 
Horrigan constantly searches for Leary at every location and the suspense builds to a frenzy when the two fmally meet. He pur­posely sets Horrigan up and then escapes just in the nick of time. John Matkovich portrays Leary and he is a worthy nemesis for Eastwood's suave Horrigan. 
Leary is smart yet deranged, and a mas­ter of disguise. They are a brilliant pair in the tradition of Holmes and Moriarty, and it is their relationship which makes this film work Their is a subplot which involves Horrigan's affair with Lilly Raines (Rene Russo), a fellow bodyguard. Rene Russo is charming, but their romance is not believ­able. 
Wolfgang Petersen, the director and pro­ducer, keeps the audience guessing. Eastwood is ironically perfect for this role and it fits his gritty personality. 
The Fugitive: Based on the classic TV drama, the story of Dr. Richard Kimble (Harrison Ford) is familiar to many people. Historically, TV series have not translated into good movies. This is definitely an exception. 
The plot tracks the fate of Dr. Kimble 
who is wrongly convicted to death for mur­
dering his wife. During a freak accident on 
his way to jail, Kimble's bus crashes into a 
train and he takes off on the run. 
This time it is the good guy who is being 
sought. Depuqf U.S. Marshall Sam Gerard (Tommy Lee Jones) pursues Kimble with stubbornness of a bulldog is hilarious as he shouts commands and insults his officers. 
Gerard commits himself to finding Kimble whether innocent or guilty. He becomes obsessed much like Javert in "Les Miserables." While being chased, Kimble attempts to solve his wife's murder by fmd­ing the one-armed man. 
He uses incredible wit and masterful dis­guise as he avoids being noticed while run­ning around in Chicago of all places. This film belongs to the "On the Road" genre. The main character is always moving and narrowly escaping death and audiences are captivated by these types of films. 
Rising Sun: Although "Rising Sun" got mediocre reviews, it is a fascinating, con­troversial film. It is based on Michael Crichton's best selling book about the im­pending Japanese domination in the American business world. 
The plot is quite complicated and some of the scenes didn't make much sense. how­ever, Crichton has brought an interesting topic to the screen. The action involves the investigation of a murder and its corporate cover-up. 
Essentially, the film is a murder-mystery solved by an unlikely pair of detectives. John Connor (sean Connery) is teamed up with Web Smith (Wesley Snipes). Connor is the intellect and veteran with ties to Japanese culture. Smith is just the typical cop who is in over his head. Surprisingly, the two make a good pair. 
There is much humor as they play off of one another. Connery eats up the role as his Scottish accent has never sounded more authoritative. Snipes brings the comic relief with his down-to-earth per­formance. 
The mystery is very puzzling and reveals many surprises. There are several seg­ments which involve the investigation of new video technology and security devices. It is amazing what can be done in that field. 
"Rising Sun" also contains elements of 
Japanese Culture, and it is important to 
realize just how different they operate. The 
film demonstrates how the American and 
Japanese cultures can clash and the stand­
still that can result. 





New Order, Jamiroquai release new summer hits 
By Rob Adams 
Music Critic 
After a four year hiatus to pursue solo projects after reportedly becoming sick of each other, New Order, the "grandfa­thers of techno" finally released their new CD, Republic, in May of 1993. 
Drowning in waterfalls of fabulous synthesizer, cameos of slippery guitar riffs, and marvelous vocals, this disc can move feet just as easily as it can move heart and soul. 
Although always praised for their breakthroughs in "electronic" music, New Order's real strength resides in their lead singer, Bernard Sumner. 
Obsessive and happily tormented, Sumner effortlessly croons his way through the emotions of anticipation ("Young Offender"), freedom ("Spooky"). and hopeless passion ("Everyone Everywhere"). Many of the song's feelings, which are fairly diffi­cult to interpret due to hazy lyrics, ex­press reflections on the past. 
Meanwhile, the music of the disc is excellent as well. Peter Hook's bass and Sumner's splashes of guitar wedge onto the walls of melody created by the synthesizers. 

Notorious for perfecting each part of music before writing even one word, New Order has a formula which enables Sumner's voice to float atop their com­plicated hooks. 
New Order's newest combination of vocal and instrumental emotion has resulted in a disc well-worth the four­year wait. 
Jamiroquai's summer release, Emergency on Planet Earth, is the party disc that everyone has been waiting for. In a material world where the retro movement exists but is not yet embraced, Jamiroquai brings happy music but a concerned message about our current world's status 
We need to understand the "fringes of the laws of Karma," read the liner notes (written by lead singer, Jay Kay), while the lyrics plead for revolution, education, and complete peace. Jay Kay's vocals bounce off each fluid note as the 12 members in the band behind him flow through lengthy funk aerobic sessions. 
Sporting a sound which fuses the dominant horns of Manhattan Transfer, the Psychedelic bass of Parliament, and vicious dance grooves reminiscent of early Red Hot Chili Peppers, this UK band is on the verge of domination on the club scene. Besides songs which attempt to give a message such as "Too Young to Die" and "Emergency on Planet Earth," Jamiroquai can also write "from the love side" as they do with "Blow Your Mind," the strongest track on the disc. Extended to eight and a half minutes, it declares a want for "passion, action" on a special night. 
Using 70's groove, conscious lyrics, and a dance fever not diagnosed since the apex of John Travolta, Jamiroquai can convince any household to shed some serious pounds. Although a young and inexperienced band, Emergency on Planet Earth shows that Jamiroquai is ready for the kind of success that this side of the Atlantic can give them. 
....Jamiroqua.i 
f.m~rQencv 0n Planet f.arth 


Thursday, September 2, 1993
page 10 The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL 
New look Bengals getting younger and cutting payroll 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press Writer 
CINCINNATI 

They're going to be doing the "Who Dey" chant a lot at Riverfront Stadium this season. 
Lance Gunn? Tom Scott? Tony McGee? Who dey? 
Why, they're starters for the Cincinnati Bengals, a team that has gotten younger and cheap­er with virtually every presea­son roster move. 
Heading into their season opener Sunday in Cleveland, the Bengals listed four rookie starters and a rookie kicker on their depth chart. Twenty-six players had a year or less in the NFL. 
To put it another way: Dave Shula. the youngest coach in the league at age 34, is older than anybody on the roster. The turnover has been so com­plete that the players aren't quite sure who all these faces are in the locker room. 
"I know most people," said offensive lineman Bruce Kozerski, one of four holdovers from the 1988 Super Bowl team. "Since cut-down day, there have been a lot of people coming in and out. So there are faces that change on a daily ba­sis." 
General manager Mike Brown planned this overhaul, but didn't think it would be quite this drastic. All he knew was that the Bengals couldn't con­tinue with the team that had won eight games the last two seasons. 
"We're like a lot of teams ­we start out not knowing where we're going," Brown said Wednesday. "But it became ev­ident quickly enough where we needed to go, and we made the changes we thought were nec­essary. You evolve into it, play­er by player, day by day." 
They've evolved into a team that will have one of the lowest payrolls in the NFL -the play­ers' association figures it will be the smallest -and some of the lowest expectations. 
Ticket sales are off -the home opener Sept. 12 against Indianapolis isn't sold out, jeop­ardizing a five-year streak of home sellouts. And critics have dubbed the club the San Diego Padres of the NFL for dumping high-salaried players. 
Brown said the team is in good shape financially and didn't cut any players to save money. Brown is waiting until next year, when a league-wide salary cap probably will be in place, to make any significant free-agent acquisitions. 
"If we have a sufficient in­come, it would be fun to be in position to sign a player or two," he said. "We'll be under the cap, I'm sure, and that will give us flexibility that half the teams in this league won't have." 
For now, they get no-names and no respect."They have to have somebody to talk about, somebody to mock," Brown said. "Until you establish you're a good team, they'll pin the donkey's tail on you. That's what we're going through now. But we'll survive it." 
The few veterans who sur­vived the purge aren't sur­prised that they're suddenly surrounded by a bunch of just­out-of-college kids. Two losing seasons led them to expect as much. 
"I think if you're going to re­build the team and you're going to replace a few key members, that's one thing," Kozerski said. "But if you're going to replace as many key members as we did, you'd better be willing to make drastic changes. 
"When you replace Anthony Munoz, Boomer Esiason, Eddie Brown, Tim McGee, Rodney Holman, Jim Riggs, David Fulcher. Eric Thomas and a countless number of other guys. you'd better be ready to go all the way with it, you'd better be willing to go along with all those changes and be prepared for it." 
The Observer accepts dassifieds c:very business d.y from I 0 a.m. ro 3:30 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 r,.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassofieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST -Black framed glasses. Please cell Nic at 1441 IMPOR­TANTI 

LOOKING FOR A RESPONSIBLE & HONEST YOUNG LADY TO '91 CAMARO RS, blue w/silver strip WORK IN WOMAN'S BOUTIQUE. on side. T-top, fancy wheels, power HOURS FLEXIBLE, PREFERABLY windows, locks, ale, wide tires, less DAYS. STOP IN AT MCKEEL'S IN than 7000 miles. Never driven in NORTH VILLAGE MALL OR CALL winter or bad weather. 259-3953 273-4888 FOR MORE INFORMA-after4 pm. TION. IMMEDIATE START. 
FOR SALE 1973 Chevy Impala- 
Lost: Student Football tix  Roomate needed at Turtle Creek.  runs well -nice sound system $500.  
Row 43, Sec 30  Gina4-2372  288-6827  

x1723 
MY RED-PURPLE SPECIALIZED HARD ROCK MOUNTAIN BIKE WAS STOLEN OUT OF CAVANAUGH LATE MONDAY NIGHT. CALL TIM AT 1470 IF 
YOU KNOW ANYTHING. 
WANTED 
I 
Part time child cere person needed immediately .20-25 hours per week. 

HELP! OUR NO BABYSITTER OF SOCCER CLEATS NEW ADIDAS 
4 YEARS GRADUATED. LOOKING COPA MUNOIAL SIZE 12$50 
FOR UPBEAT, FRIENDLY CALL MATT X1524 
FEMALE TO SIT FOR 2 KIDS AT 
LEAST ONCE A WEEK SO WE 
CAN GO OUT. CAR NEEDED. '91 CAMARO RS Blue w/ Silver 
CALL ELLI 289-3536. Strip on side, T-Top, Fancy Wheels, 
Power Window & locks, A/C, Wide tires. Less than 7000 
FOR RENT 

miles. Never driven in winter or bad
I I 
weather. Ph 259-3953 after PANASONIC KX-P1123 PRINTER 4PM High quality print -like new, $125 Call Tom (evenings) 277-2676 2 Story Colonial next to Donmoyer. 
Call271-1838. Kevin Zeisz 272-5444 FURNISHED ROOM FOR RENT. Need 1 NW for student $150/MO. 287-2159. 
ask for carrie -4-4802 
MODELS WANTED for suggestive but tasteful photos in various attire. cell273-7074 after 5 for info. 
MAKE $1,000111 ALUMNI (HOLY CROSS HOGS) NEED A 2+ BEDROOM APART­

NEAR NO­SAFE, AFFORDABLE, FUR­NISHEO APTS. 1 BORM. -$240, 755 SOUTH BEND AVE. 2 BDRM. -$280, 
519CORBY DEP. REQ'O. 1-800-582-9320. 
carpeting, brand new, bound 11x12, dark pink $90 cell Brian T. 289-6648 
FOR SALE -Refrigerator -$50 .like new (small). Smith Corona portable electric typewriter -$40 284-5027 
MENT FOR LAST 5 HOME FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS. YOU JUST 6 BEDROOM HOME, 2 BATHS, 1986 RENAULT ALLIANCE, 4­SLEEP SOMEWHERE ELSE TO WALK TO CAMPUS. $135 MO. DOOR, AUTO, AIR, AM-FM CAS­EARN DRINKING MONEY. SECU-PER PERSON. SETTE, NEW FRONT TIRES, 71 K RITY DEPOSIT PAID IN 2 BEDROOM, $295 MO. MILES. GOOD CONDITION. ADVANCE. CALL (612) 332-1443 1 BEDROOM, $225 MO. $2000. 287-5235 AFTER 5 PM. 
3 NORTHWESTERN G.A.'S NEED­
EDIIIIIIIIII CALL JULIE AT 2784. WANTED: DESPERATE ALUM 
$$1 Need NW Tix$$ NEEDS 2 SETS OF STUDENT TIX 
Call Matt at 1060 I have 2 NW GA's (MARRIED PREF). CALL BRIAN will sell or tradell call Paul 708-843-6947. 
Senior ticket application for sale at 273-5972 
call Leah 284-5334 WANTED: FEMALE SO. TIX. 
TO MICHIGAN STATE GAME. Senior ticket application for sale Need: stu. tix Leave name & ph. WILL BUY OR TRADE FOR Call John 282-2206 no. 233-1463. MALE SO. TIX. TO ANY GAME. 
CALL JEREMY 1138 

Married std tix 4 sale I have TWO Northwestern tix, will @273-5097 HELP-there is a large posse com-trade for Pitt or BC tix-Bryan 1190 ing from UF to see FSU lose and I 
I need 2 USC GA's. X-1653 need to get them tickets $$$ 
Call Tomas at x3695 WANTED STUDENT TIX $ 1477$ 
Need Pitt GA's-cell ext 3756, katie Selling 2 entire sets of Married WANTED FSU & USC Gas Student TX: Call Thr F, after 6pm will beat any price Need 1 Northwestern GA 273-8938. 288-5282 call Oamien x1961 
Desperately Wanted: One ticket to NORTHWESTERN for sale For Sale: 1 stud. ticket for FSU. the Michigan State game. Will pay a 232 3736 Make best offer of multiple tlx or $. loti Please call Bridget at 4015 as 
4-4310 soon as possible if you have one NORTHWESTERN stud. tick. avail. you don't need! 273-5909 Pete. Will give first-born son for four USC 
tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob I have 4 Fla. St. G.A.'s Need 1 Northwestern ticket, student at 273-0620. Best offer or GA Carolyn 3899 Ask 4 Jason x1300 
Desperately seeking tickets for Help! Need 2 Ga's for PITT, BC, or Pittsburgh and Florida State. Call USC. call x4-3650 Rich 277-4769 
Have 2 tix for mich. away NEED MSU GA'S CALL MATT I NEED TICKETS FOR and 2 g.A.'s for Fla. St. X1524 NORTHWESTERN x1303, Matt 
Call1603 

ask for Mark 1 Northwestern Stud. Ticket Will trade 2 GA NW, MSU, Pitt or for sale. Call x4966. USC for 2 GA FSU or BC. Tracey I need MSU or Pitt tix. Please cell or Nick 631-7733 Kevin at X4469. WANTED: SEASON TICKETS. 
272-7233. 

Married Student Tix 4 sale 277­9074 2 Northwestern Student Tickets FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 
AND LEAVE NUMBER. WE'LL ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM-call ext 4499. Ask for Dan or 277-1659. CALLBACK. PUS & 9 MO. LEASE AVAILABLE. '85 T-BIRO, 55,000 MILES, $1850 $ $ $ $ $ Rich. 
272-6306. OR MAKE OFFER. NEED MSU TIX CALL AVELINO NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITTSBURGH EXTERIOR PAINTERS K-SIZE WATERBEO W/HEAD-X4212 NEEDTIXII GAME. CALL CARRIE AT 634­Experienced Student Painters WEEKENDS-RIVERFRONT NEW BOARD AND HEATER, $85. $ $ $ 4 MICH. STATE GA's 4416. needed to paint South Bend 11rea HOUSE OR APT. 257-9101. 100-WATT SANYO COMPONENT CALL Merrie X4544 homes. Full or Part Time. STEREO, $225. Have 2 GA's for Northwestern. AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS 2 ROOMS FOR RENT ON FOOT-ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER, $35. *** FOR SALE *** HAVE 2 NW and 2 FSU GAs Best Offer 1-800-826-6287. BALL WKNDS. 2 MI. FROM NO. ANTIQUE IRON TWIN BED, $40. MUST SELL BY FRI. 277-5612 "painting America's homes coast to NIGEL Y DECOR. PREFER AGE 287-3533. Four N'Western tix: 20 yd. line. X 1351 coasr OVER 30. $100/NIGHT/ROOM. All together. Best offer at 291-6216 call any1ime I NEED 3 PITT GAS 
277-8340. Ask for Bill. I HAVE A JOB. I HAVE$
TICKETS
LOOKING FOR A LIVE-IN SUPER-2 MICH. TIX 4 SALE OR USC CALL 212-986-9866 VISOR FOR 2 TEENAGE BOYS, Castle P1 Apt vacancy 1.5 bath 2 NEED 4 N'WEST GA'S CALL TOM TRADE. 273-1807. ASK FOR BOB GLINES PARENTS TRAVELING. MUST BE rm. Female r-mate needed for SENIOR STUD TIX BOOK 4 SALE @271-2908 RESPONSIBLE, MATURE AND school yr. Great location I Call284-NEED, MONEY WANT 2 SELL NEED A SET OF STUDENT TICK­NON-SMOKER AND LIKE 4003 or 273-1420. NOW. NEED 2 OR MORE TICKETS FOR ETS. CALL 634-2763. TEENAGERS. SALARY NEGO-634-4694 EITHER 1 0/23 USC 11/13 FSU OR ASK FOR PETE TIABLE. TELEPHONE FOR APT. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ASK FOR DAINA 11/20 BC CALL MARK CAT 
PERSONAL

778-2515. 219-291-7153 1 800 543 0357 STUD TIX-BOOK 4 SALE. 
TOM@254-9068, 6-8PM OR LEV FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! STUD. TIX BOOK 4 SALE MES. $5.50 HAIRCUTS EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING FURNISHED HOUSE TO SHARE. 634-4586 Marc WANTED TWO GA OR MARRIED 
......................................
BREAK TRIPSI SELL ONLY 8 2mi from NO. Wash/dry. Quiet. STUDENT TICKET TO ANY HOME VITO'S BARBER SHOP 
--TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS Prefer Male/female grad stu. Jeff I need 2 NW tix. X-1653 GAMES. JOHN 800 256-6524 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, 289-3234 EXT1152 I NEED BOOK $$$111 233-4767 JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800­878-63861 For sale: 2 Pitt GA's, 1 Pitt stud. One student ticket booklet for sale. IRISH MUSIC For NOTRE DAME 
Furnished house, Roseland, 3-4 X-1653. I need 1 student or GA tix for MSU. FANSONLYIII FRIDAY NIGHT $$$$ Bedroom. Good neighborhood Will trade or buy 273-4176 Please call with offer ...x 3274 Tim. The Madison Oyster Bar Looking for a 1993 NO football sea-2n-3097 I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL SEAMAISIN
......................................
son ticket bookletllll TIXS.272-6306 BIG BUCKS! NO STUD TIX BOOK thanksII cell 284-5115 NEEDED CALL PAT@ 273-4867 $$$$ SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The
FOR SALE 

NEED 2 FSU TICKETS NEED ALL TICKETS 271-8641 Need 1 N'wstrn GA Madison Oyster Bar. Bring friends. 
HELP! -NO/FSU MARRIAGE KEVIN X 1564 PART-TIME SITTER Need reliable, 2 BIKES. COUCH & CHAIR.272-(904) 398-6146. MANY THANKS to all who helped qualified, compassionate person to 6306 HAVE NORTHWESTERN TIX. get 219 PW together. We will find a babysit in our home for 8mo. Man-$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I HAVE 2 LENNY KRAVITZ TICK-MUST SELL NOW!!! X1232. way to pay you back ... Wed-Fri please cell273-9512. COLOR TV RENTALS: 19", two NEED 2 FSU TICKETS ETS FOR PINE KNOB ON SATUR-Much love, 
semesters, $99.95 delivered. 13", (904) 398-6146 DAY, SEPTEMBER 11. (IN THE B&E Newspaper carriers and branch two semesters, $69.95 delivered. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ EVENING -AFTER THE MICHl-NORTHWESTERN-STUD. TICKET managers needed for Notre Dame Collegiate Rentals. 272-5959. GAN GAMEl) I WANT TO TRADE 273-5989 and St. Mary's campus. I NEED STUDENT SEASON TIX FOR MICHIGAN TICKETS Welcome to Clubserver! Call immediately for available posi-VCR RENTALS: Rent a VCR, two AND GA's ALL GAMES (PREFERABLY) OR $$$. CALL WILL TRADE FOUR MSU TICK-lions: 232-3205 semesters $99.95 delivered. JASON 233-4008 JEN AT X130B-SOON!! ETS FOR TWO USC TICKETS. 
Collegiate Rentals, 272-5959 CALL CONNIE (708) 665-1827. 
-•w Thursday, September 2, 1993 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL page 11 
~-------~----~~--~--~------------­
Changing divisions baffles some schools 
By JOHN AFFLECK Associated Press Writer 
LOUDONVILLE, N.Y. 

Siena College plays football on a field most high schools would be ashamed of. 
A well-kicked extra point is in dan­ger of landing in the woods at either end of the field. The school claims to have attracted a total of 3,150 people to its four home games last year, but no one knows how all those Saints fans were packed into five rows of 
bleachers. 

Yet Siena, with an enrollment of 2, 700 and a 1992 record of 2-7, is making the big jump this year from Division III football to Division I-AA. 
The Saints are not alone. Twenty­seven schools also are upgrading their football programs from Divisions III and II to Division I-AA, one rung below the big time of Division I-A, but up there with respected football schools such as The Citadel and Georgia Southern. 
ONATE $1 TO MDA & RECEIVE 
S 
THE REGULAR STICKER PRICE
L2 0 F F s~: s~~:E~~:~~~~~L~ 
END OF SUMMER CLEARANCE 
~[f\l]U~ [gj~ ~U(Q)©~ 
RED STICKER SHOES 
EARTHLAND LADIES RD 
lllACK. NAVY MULTI. OLIVE MULTI 
OXFORD ALSO AVAILABLE: BLACK STYLE IC1090 COMPARE AT $30 OUR REG. $24.97 
For many Division III colleges, it's a forced migration. 
A new NCAA rule says if a school competes at the Division I level in all sports but football, it must either eliminate football, upgrade the pro­gram, or drop its other sports to foot­ball's level. 
"If you're going to make a commit­ment to Division I, it should be a Division I program in all sports," said Steve Mallonee, NCAA director of leg­islative services. 
REGISTER FREEPACKARD BELL
NOW TO  COMPUTER  
WIN A  SYSTEM  
N  ·FROM·  

w@~8@1rls8~[Q) 
s 

QUALIFIERS DRAWN HOURLY DRAWING MON SEPT. 6 @4PM 
V-Ball 

continued from page 16 
hitting wore down the Crusaders. 
In preparation for the long season, Irish coach Debbie Brown used a variety of lineups in playing every available player in the match, giving valu­able experience to each of the four eligible fresh­men on the squad. This will hopefully provide a strong bench to compliment the already proven starting lineup, something that will be necessary later in the year as the Irish face a murderous schedule including eleven top-25 teams. 
Next up for the team is the Big Four classic at the University of Kentucky, as the Irish try to hold off #14 Kentucky while repeating as tourney champion. 
COURTSTAR LEATHER OXFORD WHITE/GREY OR BLACK/WHITE COMPARE AT l36 OUR REG. $24.97 
BELIEVE IT! 


page 12 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL Thursday, September 2, 1993 
Johnson and Northern Illinois out to surprise future foes 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER 
Associated Press Writer 
AMES, Iowa 

When he saw what a Husky could do to a Badger, Iowa State coach Jim Walden sat up and took notice. 
The Northern Illinois Huskies will visit Iowa State in the sea­son opener Thursday night. While preparing for the game, Walden popped in a tape of 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
NO Rowing Club will have an informational meeting for men and women varsity rowers and any interested experienced rowers Thursday, September 2, at 7:30 in 118 Niewland. 
The Notre Dame Hockey

'. 
team will silkscreen your clean, plain T-shirts and sweatshirts at Student Activities Night free of charge. 
NO Soccer Club will hold tryouts for the traveling team Sunday, Sept 5 at 2:00, Monday Sept 6, and Tuesday Sept 7 at 
5:00 at Stepan Field. Come ready to play and bring a ball if possible. Call Matt Dunn at X3626 if you have any ques­tions. 
Women's safety and self­defense course-The objective of the course is to expose women to basic self-defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situations. Classes begin Monday, September 13. Ten sessions on Mondays and Wednesdays, 6:30-7:45 p.m., Rockne rm. 219. Class size is limited and open to students/faculty/staff and requires a $9.00 fee. For more info call631-6100. 
Shorin-RYU Karate course-Students are instructed according to Okinawan tech­niques. Classes begin Monday, Sept 13, and run throughout the semester on Mondays and Wednesdays, 4:30-6:00 and requires a $15.00 fee. Demonstration: Wednesday, Sept 8, 5:00 p.m. in Rockne 
301. For more info call 631­6100. 
Scuba Diving Course­YMCA lifetime certification. Classes begin Sunday, Sept 12. Seven classroom and pool ses­sions meeting on Sundays 3:30­
7:30 p.m. Important informa­tion meeting Wednesday, Sept 8, 6:00 p.m. in Rockne 218. For more info call631-6100. 
Biathlon-1/2 mile swim and 2 mile run. Saturday, Sept 11, 
10:30 a.m. at St. Joe Beach. Three divisions: Varsity, Non­Varsity, and Team. Register in advance at RecSports. For more info call 631-6100. 
Men's tennis practice begins Thursday September 9. Tryouts for all walk-ons will begin at 3:30. Anyone interest­
_, 
ed in trying out should contact the tennis office at 1-6113 or 1­4841. 
Women's tennis tryouts will be Thursday September 9 at 3:00 at the Courtney Tennis Center. Anyone interested in trying out MUST contact the tennis office at 1-5149. 
A lacrosse meeting will be held Friday, September 3 in Loftus for all returning mem­bers of the lacrosse team and those interested in trying out. Any questions call coach Kevin Corrigan. 
The hockey team will hold 
Northern Illinois' visit to Wisconsin last year. What he watched was unset­tling. 
"I was doing pretty good in the confidence level until I watched the Wisconsin game," Walden said. "With 12 minutes to go in the game, they had Wisconsin (down) 17-3. I think anybody that's good enough to do that at Wisconsin certainly is very much worthy of our 
an initial information meeting on September 1 for any student interested in trying out for the team. 
Notre Dame Sports Information is looking for vol-respect." 

Wisconsin needed a touch­down and two-point conversion with 2 minutes left to win the game 18-17. Northern Illinois returns 14 starters from that contest, including star running back LeShon Johnson. 
Johnson rushed for 1,338 yards last fall and is the na­tion's No. 2 returning rusher, behind San Diego State's Marshall Faulk. The 6-foot, 
unteer help for the 1993-94 academic year. Our office han­dles statistics, press releases and media guides for all Irish varsity sports. For more infor­mation, call Rose at 631-7516. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days P@'SY ttl ftptth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses 
Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square 
(219) 277-1291 
51400 31 North 
1-800-328-0206
South Bend, IN 46637 

The new 3-D graphing grade-making easy-learning fast-answering budget-pleasing 
headache-busting HP48G 
200-pound senior averaged 5 yards a carry in 1992 and had the fourth-longest run in the country -an 85-yarder against Southern Mississippi. 
Northern Illinois, 5-6 last fall, also returns starting quarter­back Scott Crabtree, fullback Brian Cotton and flanker Vaurice Patterson. Coach Charlie Sadler hopes they can keep defenses from keying on Johnson. 
"We're going to get the ball to LeShon, no doubt about that," said Sadler, an assistant at Iowa State from 1979-82. "We wouldn't be very smart if we didn't. 

"At the same time, we hope to take the pressure off LeShon. We hope our quarterback does a nice job with his completion percentage and our receivers catch the ball and hold on to it." 
But if Northern Illinois wants to throw instead of hand off to Johnson, that's just fine with Walden. 
CALL 

CJ.Ris KNycJ. 
TODAY 
ANd wisk kER A 

HAppy 18rh BiRThdAy 
SMC x4074 


Check it out 

The new HP 48G graphic calcula­
tor gives you a whole lot more for 
a whole lot less than you think. 
Get more 

•Push a button, choose from the pull-down menu, and fill in the blanks. Entering data is that easy. 
·View 3-D graphs. . Access over 300 built-in equations. ·Perform algebra and calculus 
operations on equations before entering values. . Enter and see equations like they appear on paper. 
•Work with different units of measure. The HP 48G will convert them for you. For example, enter inches, centimeters, yards, and feet, together in one equation­it'll convert them. 
Get more ... for less . Compare prices-the HP 48G fits your budget. 
Special introductory offer* When you buy an HP 48G or HP 48GX, you can get free software (plus games!) and a free cable for connecting to your desktop PC. Write programs for the HP 48 using your PC keyboard, or store HP 48 files and programs on your desktop PC. 
Pick up a coupon at your college 
bookstore. 

FJ/;-HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 
*Offer good while supplies last on purchases made from August I, 1993 through October 31, 1993. SE'e coupon for teilllS and conditions. ©Hewlett-Packard Company. PG 12306B 
But Cooper, who coached de­pared to past coaches we had. fensive backs at Notre Dame, "It was more of an up-tempoALUMNI has more long odds to face. His all the time, get after yourIllSENIOR Eagles finished 1-10 last sea­ass," Thompson said. "That's son and the program has a 6­what we need: The type of 26-1 mark over the past three coach who will get after you seasons. when you do wrong and~!:CLUB Win A SOLO PIANO CONCERT /THE SUMMER SHOW Mrr~lh.rr!~l]l 1rrr~lk~11~ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 + 7:30PM at O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College $16, $11 non-Saint Mary's students, and Alumni--Senior Club! $10 Saint Mary's students at Saint Mary's College Box Office. Charge By Phone 219-284-4626.Opens 9pm Tonight Look for George's latest album, SUMMER, at$1 per raffle ticket your favorite music store. Please join us in support ofthe Center for theDrawing at 12 Midnight Homeless by bringing a donation of canned food to the concert (Must be present to win) A DANCING CAT PRODUCTION  

IUPLAN Test Prep Welcomes YOu Bacl{! LSAT Classes for the October 2~ 1993 Exam start this week: Thursday, September 2 1717 E. South Bend Avenue EXPERIENCE KAPLAN TOTAL TRAINING ANYTHING ELSE IS PARTIAL PREP KAPLAN The answer to the test question  

----~-------~~---~----~-­
Thursday, September 2, 1993 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL page 13 
..
OSU suspends players Ex-Holtz aide Cooper beats the odds 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Starting guard Jason Winrow and backup center Rod Smith have been suspended from playing Ohio State's season opener Saturday against Rice because they violated NCAA rules regarding telephone calls, the university said. 
Athletic director James Jones said that during the 1992-93 school year, they were among five players on the Buckeyes' 1992 team who improperly charged third-party long dis­tance calls to university num­bers. Winrow made $149.76 worth of such calls, and Smith's calls totaled $507.39, he said. 
Ohio State reported the viola­tions to the NCAA as soon as they were discovered and de­clared Winrow and Smith ineli­gible, Jones said. The NCAA ruled they would have to sit out the Rice game but could play for the rest of the season. 
Winrow, of Bridgeton, N.J., and Smith, of Cleveland, both fifth-year seniors, have repaid the university for the charges. 
The three other 1992 team members who made third­party calls also have repaid the university, Jones said. They are linebacker Brent Johnson of Bexley and wide receiver Greg Beatty of Missouri City, Texas, both of whom played their se­nior seasons last year, and se­nior tailback Butler By'not'e of St. Louis. 
reward you if you do right." 
Not all of Thompson's team­mates from the 1992 team agreed. Thirty-one players on the 110-member squad have left, Cooper said. • 
"We changed the philosophy of everything," he said. "We just took it up another notch. We raised the standard, and there were some kids that didn't want to do it our way.... To play in program that is sue­cessful, any football has to make a commitment. The kids who didn't want to come to our level, didn't want to do the things we're doing, we don't have them here anymore." 
The changes include a new dress code that bans players from wearing hats, sweats, T­shirts and earrings in class. Players can have mustaches, but other facial hair is off-lim­its. Their hair must be cut "in a neat and stylish fashion," Cooper said. 
"We just try to give them some things to be positive with, some things that are going to help them later on in their life or in the future," he said. 
•-------------------------"They're not going to go inter­
view for a job with a hat on and an earring dangling down." Cooper also requires his play­ers to lift weights year round. "When I came in I know we 
weren't a very strong team," he said. "We had guys that were fat and out of shape." After complaining at first, the ._.,..... players now reaping the bene­fits, he said. "Our bigger guys have cut some fat and our smaller guys have gained some muscle mass," Cooper said. "We've still got a long way to go, but they've all worked pretty good." Cooper's drive toward a head coaching post began years ago. He first dreamed of playing professionally, but decided in high school he would not be big enough. He then decided he would be­come a high school coach, but changed his mind to coach in college after playing at Jacksonville State. Assistant coach positions at Appalachian State, Minnesota, Austin Peay, Murray State, East Carolina and UNLV followed before Holtz hired him. Cooper said he learned from his former bosses to "be very, very fair and at the same time be very firm and very consis­tent." "If you're fair with everybody you deal with, then when you discipline them, they're going to know that you're doing it for their best." Cooper's first test is Saturday at West Virginia. The odds again are long, but Cooper isn't worried. 
Book 
continued from page 16 
he sent the letter voluntarily. 
Other players receiving let­ters from sports information were former players Mark Green, Scott Kowalkowski, Anthony Johnson and John Carney. 
Former player John Askin, Gerry Faust, 1981-85 head coach, and Arkansas Athletic Director Frank Broyles also wrote letters supporting Lou Holtz and Notre Dame, but were not contacted by the sports information department. 
By MATT HARVEY 
Associated Press Writer 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. 

Ron Cooper beat the odds twice when he was hired as Eastern Michigan's football coach last December. 
First, he was only 31, making him the youngest coach in Division I-A. 
Second, Cooper is black. The only other black head coaches among the 105 Division 1-A schools are at Temple and Wake Forest. 
"Ron Cooper is a special per­son and a special coach," said Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz, who was Cooper's boss the past two seasons. "He has an unbe­lievable relationship with his players and coaching staff. He is an ideal role model and an excellent leader. I wish I could buy 10 percent of his future." 
He still isn't daunted. 
"We don't want to wait to win," he said. "A lot of people aren't expecting us to do any­thing this year.... I'm not on a plan where I want to wait two, three, four years. I want to see a difference made from day one and I want to see a difference definitely at the end of the sea­son." 
In fact, he seems to revel in pressure. Why else would he set personal goals of never hav­ing a losing season and coach­ing several national champi­onship teams? 
Senior kick returner Craig Thompson said Cooper has brought a welcome change to the Eagles. 
"The whole attitude of the team has changed drastically," Cooper said. "The minute he came in, I saw the difference in the way he coached as com­

----~-~--­
r-----------------------------------------------------~---------------------­
page 14 The Observer • WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Women's tennis builds on success 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Associate Sporu Editor 

Last year, the Notre Dame women's tennis team burst on to the national scene with an impressive first-round win in the NCAA Championship, pro­pelling them into the Sweet Sixteen. This spring, they look to build upon this first success­ful appearance as they begin a season full of promise. 
Coach Jay Louderback's squad returns their whole team, minus last year's senior captain Eniko Bende. 
All six top singles players who teamed to whip AJab~a in the first round of the NCAA's are returning. In that match, then-freshman Wendy Crabtree, who was ranked No. 61 in the polls, upset No. 58 Jenny Whalen 7-5, 6-1, while
.­
fellow freshman Holyn Lord cruised to her 22nd straight win with a 6-0, 6-2 victory over Amy Mascotti. 
At No. 3 and No. 4 singles, juniors Christy Faustmann and Lisa Tholen both picked up straight-set wins, while sopho­more Laura Schwab captured the match with a 6-4, 6-2 win over Chrissy Carter at No. 6 singles. Freshman Sherri Vitale's match at No. 2 singles was then called as the Irish had wrapped up their 5-0 win. 
Next, the Irish faced a more experienced and talented No. 2-seeded Stanford squad and held their own, despite the lop­sided 5-0 score. 
Coming in to the match, Stanford had won six of the last seven NCAA titles, but the Irish were relaxed and confident. 
"We were so excited just to be in the tournament," said Crabtree, "It was a real thrill, so we weren't really nervous. We just went out to play our best." 
However, No. 2-ranked Laxmi Poruri was too much for Crabtree, who fell 6-3 7-5. Meanwhile, 5th-ranked Heather Willens beat Vitale at No.2 singles, 6-2, 6-1. 
After both Tholen and Schwab were defeated, Faustmann lost to sixth-ranked Kim Shasby 6-2, 6-4, and the Cardinal moved on to face Georgia in the quarterfinals. 
Despite such an abrupt end­ing to a successful season, the Irish were proud of what they had accomplished and expect to carry on the success. 
"Going in we all knew what the team was capable of and 
Campus Ministry's CON­SIDERATIONS will run every Thursday. This week it will run tomorrow. 
Iffi~IDIPM~mm9 

.. 
we knew that we had a lot of ability," noted Crabtree, "So it was nice to see us achieve some of our goals." 
"It was the first time we had been in the tournament, so I think we did real well," com­mented Coach Jay Louderback, "Winning the first match was really big. 
"During both matches we were very loose. The Alabama match was probably our best match all year, and we had a pretty good match against Stanford-we were not intimi­dated at all." 
After the team portion of the tournament, Crabtree was then invited to the singles tourna­ment and the 62nd-ranked Crabtree upset No. 6 Kim Shasby, 6-7, 7-6, 6-3. 
"During the match I was re­ally confident because I had nothing to lose, there was not that much pressure on me," said Crabtree, who ended up ranked No. 46 in the fmal rank­ings, "I think she felt the pres­sure because we had a close match last year and she knew it would be a tough match." 
Crabtree then moved on to the doubles tournament with Lisa Tholen, but the pair bowed 
You Are Invited to consider Sacramental Preparation 
Baptism Confirmation Full Communion 
in the Catholic Church 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE COME ... 
§~A~~~~~~~mn~ 1\l@tlll'® nDmlliiDcs ll&®<IDlliiD~ l1inlF<ID~mlW.l® 
Baptism For unbaptized people interested in joining the Catholic Church 
Full Communion For baptized Christians interested in Full Communion in the Catholic tradition 
Confirmation For Catholics interested in receiving the Sacrament of Confirmation 
Questions? call or visit Kate Barrett Campus Ministry Badin Hell Office 631-5242 
be a volunteer sponsor 
out to Mississippi's Marie Bougnol and Pascale Piquemal, 4-6, 6-1, 7-5, who eventually advanced to the semifinals. 
"That was a frustrating match," noted Crabtree, "It was a little disappointing-we thought we could have played a lot better." 
So the Irish come into this year with sophomores Crabtree, Vitale, and Lord, ju­nior Schwab, and seniors Faustmann and Tholen as the nucleus of a team that is a sure bet to be in the preseason top­20 and a team to watch in '94. 
Add to that sophomore Meredith Siegfried and senior Terri Vitale, who has re­bounded from an injury that sidelined her for last season, and the Irish have the depth they will need to challenge the nation's top teams. 
"Last year we competed very well-we were never out-com­peted, as hard as they all play," said Louderback, "I don't ex­pect that to change this year. 
"I'm really excited about the upcoming season. All of our players played a lot in the sum­mer, and they needed to because we're going to be very, very, deep." 

for Notre Dame students who are candidates for 
JFunnn cc®l]]).l]]l\lilliDn<IDIID9 <IDl1" cc<IDIIDiffill"TTiJil~IDitn<IDIID in the Catholic Church 
Informational meeting ... no obligation! 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13 Foster Room, 3rdfloor LaFortune 
6:30p.m. Sponsors for persons preparing for baptism or full communion (RCIA) 
7:30p.m. Sponsors for Catholics preparing for Confirmation 
QUESTIONS? 
call or visit Kate Barrett Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 631-5242 

The Observer/Jake Peters Senior Christy Faustmann will be counted on to lead the Irish this year. 
The Observer is now acceptingapplications for the following positions: 
Assistant Editor CapyEditor Colu11nist 
To apply, submit a resume and personal statement to Kenya Johnson by Friday, September 3. Contact Kenya at 631 ~4540 for more information. 
~ GET INVOLVED IN THE • '"' EXCITING WORLD OF "'­COLLEGIATE ATHLETICS! 
Notre Dame Sports Marketing is looking for volunteers! 
We are looking for students interested in learning about athletic promotions from the inside out. 
Our students will work directly with the coaches and staffs of NO's varsity sports in developing and implementing promotions. From pre-season to tournament time, be there every step of the way in continuing the tradition of excellence of Notre Dame Athletics. 
If you are interested, contact Aimee in the sports marketing department at 631-8103. 
50TH ANNIVERSARY 
SOME THINGS JUST GET BETTER AS TIME GOES BY 
df)~ dntpid 
BOGA~T·B~~GMAN 


------~-------­
•
TODAY 
Thursday, September 2, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


5\JJINO 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON • I'M LEAKING BRAIN LUBRICANT. 

\ 
/Vtt__
~~ 
/r<> ­

-... 
OF INTEREST 

62 Arrow poison safekeeping &3 Hart 
t Actor Thicke 33 Author LeShan 64 "Omnia vincit 
5 Decorative "34Hammett
knob 
·­
heroine &5 Famed French 9 Problem for battle site 
36 Hero'sSanta 

birthplace 66 Pierre's caput t3 Robot 67 Lenient
37 Kelly hit 15 Mentor-on-the-68 Sitters'
42 A first name in 

Lake's lake creations
comics t& Rent 
43 Thin layer of ore 17 Soprano Lucine 44 Half a bad biter DOWN 45 Get --out (fix 
t Temple's first 18 Declaim the software) 
violently 2 Kin of a mesa 
49 Detached 3 Krygyz range 

t9Simply forcibly 4 German Nobel 
20 Children's 51 Furrow chemistchant 52 Gaucho's 5Thiamine­23 Strikebreaker weapon 
deficiency24 Eng.'s 
53 Lockridge novel 

disease continent 60 Obtain for 
6 Scene of 25 Give back &t Unit of pressure Camus's "The Plague" 7 Burns ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Spread 9 Lodge or quarter ~~~~ to Chaplin's 27 "A votre -!" 47 Architectural 56 Cupid, to widow 29 One who 
ornaments Agamemnon 46 Matrix of a cell 
R-7+:::+:::-t.iiBH::::t=:-E+.::-Iiit~~ t t Companion of transmits: Abbr. 57 Nothing, to 
50 What Daphne 
Le Bourget 30 Excites Pedro 
became
w::+.:+--Ei 12 Brat Farrar's 31 Beethoven's 58 Gin
53 Valuationcreator "Fur_.. 
59 Strong14 Famed 32 Ate in style longings
54Smell-(be 
suspicious)
expenmenterwith radio waves 35 Reply to a ques. 55 "Bus Stop" 60 Erhard's playwright therapy
l!ltl!~lll-:111ir=+:~t':'-f 21 Composer 38 Idle chatter Copland 39 Red fruit of the 22 Parseghian of wintergreen 
Get answers to any three clues ,
coaching fame 40 Devastation 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
25 Timer button 41 Eager to rival 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
26 Poet Sitwell 46 f)ssuary 

..
Welcome Weekend '93 
Thursday, Sept.2: Say Anything & Singles-­
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Fieldhouse Mall, beginning at dusk Friday, Sept.4: RockFest 2! Student Bands & Refreshments-­Fieldhouse Mall 8:30 pm 
....
Saturday, Sept. 5 : Free Billiards (6pm-Jam) & Free Video Games (6pm-7pm)--Gorch Game Room in LaFortune 





SPORTS 

Former player claims he was misrepresented by author 
By DAVID KINNEY  of an effort to mobilize opposi­ 
Editor-in-Chief  tion to the book.  
"It is good that Notre Dame  
Another former player  is doing this," Yaeger said.  
accused author Don Yaeger of  "It's a shame they're .not read­ 
taking his quotes out of context  ing the book and trying to find  
in "Under the Tarnished Dome;  out what's wrong with Notre  
How Notre Dame Betrayed Its  Dame football."  
Ideals for Football Glory," and  Byrne wrote that Yaeger  
said he might take legal action  asked him to share some  
against the author. Yaeger  "comical ironies" about his  
dmued any wrongdoing.  Notre Dame experience. The  
In a letter yesterday to  author told Byrne he was writ~  
Athletic Director Dick  ing "a llghthf5arted chronicle of  
Rosenthal, former tight end  Notre Dame Football in the  
Tom Byrne became the fourth  1980's," but Yaeger insists that  
person quoted in the book to  Byrne knew his true inten·  
charge the authors of misrep·  tions. ·  
resentation. He also said he  "When I was hurt, I wasn't  
was not given the opportunity  included," Byrne says in the  
to review his quotes before the  book. "I was non-existent."  
book's release, as Yaeger had  Byrne argues the authors  
promised.  incorrectly put the statement  
"It has become painfully  in a derogatory context by  
apparent that my intent and  placing it at the beginning of a  
context were completely mis­ chapter titled "You Gotta Play  
represented," Byrne said. "He  Real Hurt."  
Oat out lied to me."  "I had a cast from my ankle  
"That's just so patently un­ to my hip," he explained. "How  
true," Yaeger told The  could any reasonable person  
Observer yesterday, and said  expect me to be included in  
Simon & Schuster conducted  practices?"  
an extensive legal review of  Byrne said yesterday he is  
the book's contents to ensure  grateful to Holtz for opening  
that quotes were accurate and  his eyes to opportunities, but  
put in proper context.  Yaeger insisted the former  
"Tarnished Dome," written  player "offered some pretty  
by Yaeger and Doug Looney  strong criticism of Lou Holtz."  
and released in South Bend  Heisler said he sent pages of  
Monday, alleges that Head  the book to at least six former  
Football Coach Lou Holtz knew  players. in part because  
about NCAA violations during  "Tarnished Dome" will not be  
his Ume at the University of  available nationally until Sept.  
Minnesota and is critical of his  7.  
actions during his eight~year  "We have not asked these  
eareer at Notre Dame.  people to do anything," he  
The letter comes after an  said. "All we're trying to do is  
effort by Notre Dame's sports  let them know they're going to  
information department to  get phone calls from ... the  
inform players quoted in the  media." Although Byrne was  
book about its contents. John  among the players contacted  
Heisler, director of sports  by sports information, he said  
information, said it is not part  
see BOOK I page 1.3  

Thursday, September 2, 1993 
Irish volleyball whips Crusaders 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR leading the team with eleven kills. Sports Writer Another promising performance for the Irish was the play of freshman Jenny 
The 18th ranked Notre Dame volley­Birkner, who saw action in all three sets, ball team opened its season with an spiking ten kills and sharing the team impressive defeat of interstate rival lead with 16 digs. She also led the team Valparaiso, handing the homestanding with an impressive .350 kill percentage. Crusaders a 15-2, 16-14, 15-10 defeat in Despite what would seem to be an front of a large, vocal crowd. abnormally good freshman debut, Brown 
This opening win marked the third pointed out that, "Jenny had a very solid consecutive year that the Irish have match in all respects, in kills as well as begun on the right foot under head solid defense. However, this follows coach Debbie Brown, and it extended the what haf" been a solid preseason for her. Notre Dame winning streak over She's an excellent player, and one that Valparaiso to eleven straight. doesn't make many errors." 
Coach Brown was quick to praise the Senior co-captain and starting setter poise shown by the entire squad, noting, Janelle Karlan answered another ques­"We were a little nervous with such a tion for the Irish as they begin their vocal crowd, but were very much in con­quest for a third MCC crown and another trol throughout the match. After losing NCAA bid, providing the necessary floor the momentum of a 13-2 lead, I was leadership in doling out 33 assists, high really proud that we hung in there." on both squads. 
The Irish began the match in strong Sophomore Brett Hensel led the Notre fashion, utilizing an experienced core of Dame service attack with four aces, as players from last year's NCAA tourna­the Irish were generally dominant in this ment qualifying team to completely dom­area, committing only two service errors inate the less-talented Crusaders. to Valparaiso's six. The other statistical 
Returning all-MCC performer Christy categories were surprisingly similar, Peters led the Irish, notching eight kills although the number of chances to score and 16 digs despite playing only two of favored the Irish, as relentless outside the three sets. Senior middle-blocker Molly Stark also had a good showing, see V-BALL I page 11 
Freshman Powlus meets the press 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN  wasn't that far ofT from starting. I think it was  
SportS Editor  just a combination of things."  
When he returns:  
Injured freshman Ron Powlus spoke to  "If it is matter of playing only the bowl game, I  
reporters for the first time yesterday at a special  would have to think about that when the time  
press conference which broke the silence which  comes.  
is traditionally mandatory for freshman football  "I've never gone into a game thinking I am  
playeJS.  going to get injured and I know I will not when I  
A team rule forbids freshman from speaking to  return."  
the press until after the season opener, but  
Powlus' injury and the high demand for his com­ 
ments made the football department make an  
exception.  
He injured the shoulder at a scrimmage last  
Saturday and the media has had only quotes  
from head coach Lou Holtz to evaluate Powlus'  
situation. Some exerpts from the conference:  
Powlus on the injury.  
"Basically the injury was really simple. It  
wasn't a bad hit, the weight of two defensive  
lineman on my shoulder was just too much.  
"When I hit the ground I heard something  
craek. I tried to roll my shoulder and couldn't. I  
reached into my shoulder pads and could feel  
where the break was."  
"It isn't a real bad break, but it will be 2-3  
months before I can get underway. I don't want  
to miss the season."  
On the mental effects of the injury:  
"I had to work to keep my head up, didn't  
know what to expect. Everything went so right  
for me.  
"The good side is that I will get a chance to be  
a normal Notre Dame student. I can use the  
opportunity to get ahead in my classes."  
On redshirting:  
"I don't want to redshirt but if I am going to  
miss the entire season, then we might as well  
make it a redshirt year.  
"My intent was to play four years and also  
graduate in four years. I would have to look at  
the situation when the time comes."  
On the idea that coach Lou Holtz should have  
protected him more:  
"That's the way things have been here, its  
never been a problem with me. A quarterback  
has to take hits. He is a player on the football  
field like anyone else."  
On the notion he was to be the starter before  
the injury:  
"I felt pretty good with my position. I was confi­ 
dent in myself and my position. My performance in the first scrimmage made me feel good. "There wasn't a certain time that I realized I  The Observer/Jake Peters Freshman quarterback Ron Powlus spoke to the press yesterday about his injury and his future.  
Inside SPORTS  


BUCKEYE CONTROVERSY COOPER'S CHANGES
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Ohio State suspends two players ~
• Senior Lisa Tholen leads the 
Ex-Irish assistant molds his 
Irish into a promising new 
new program 
season 
see page 14 see page 13 see page 13
• 







