
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 90 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11,1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Flynn and Well mann win run-off election at ND 
By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 
Frank Flynn and Nikki Well­mann won Wednesday's run-off election for student body president and vice president by a majority of approximately 
54.29 percent to 46.76 percent. 
Of 3,997 students who voted, 2170 voted for Flynn and Wellmann and 1.869 voted for David Reinke and Lara Dickey. 
Pete Castelli, judicial coordi­nator for Student Government, said he was surprised about the high turnout, attributing it to the amount of publicity in the last few days and "good cam­paigning." 
Flynn and Wellmann at­tributed their success to the help they received in the cam­paign. "We couldn't have done 

African rhythms 
it without the help we re­ceived," said Wellmann. 
"We worked really hard and we feel very proud about the campaign we ran and we are even prouder to be the student body president and vice presi­dent," said Flynn. "This is just the starting point." 
Wellmann added, "So far we have a good track record and we plan to continue that." They will take office on April 1, 1993. 
Reinke expressed a positive attitude toward the new student body president and vice presi­dent-elect. 
"My respect for Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellmann has grown with each day of this campaign. They ran it with class and in­tegrity," he said. 
"I truly hope that the student body supports them because they have good ideas and the tools to accomplish their goals." He added he would like to help Flynn and Wellmann. 
Approximately 58 percent of male students and 49 percent of female students voted for Flynn/Wellmann. Sixty-nine percent of off-campus students voted for Flynn/Wellmann. Forty-two percent of male stu­dents and 52 percent of female students voted for Reinke/Dickey, as did 31 per­cent of off-campus students. 
Flynn and Wellmann won by large majorities in most dorms, with wide margins in Alumni, where they won 101 to 37; Stanford, 217 to 21; Grace, 204 to 129; Badin, 97 to 18; Ca­vanaugh, 105 to 42; and off­campus, 19 to 9. 
The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 


Sankofa, an African-American band, performs yesterday in the Ballroom at LaFortune Student Center. The group, sponsored by the Multi-cultural Executive Council, presented a workshop on the history of African­American music. 
Clinton moves to cut 100,000 federal jobs 
WASHINGTON (APJ -Presi­dent Clinton moved Wednesday to cut 100,000 jobs from the federal work force, banishing obscure commissions and slashing fringe benefits of power, saying Americans don't want "a government that costs more and does less." 
In the second round of his campaign to trim the cost of the bureaucracy, Clinton signed three directives to bring about the shrinking of government he vowed in his campaign. 
It came a day after Clinton announced a 25 percent cut in the White House staff. 
Clinton announced the latest belt-tightening moves in a Cabinet meeting, then told Cab­inet members: "The people demand and deserve an active government on their side. They don't want a government that wastes money, a government that costs more and does less." 
"Now you and I must deliver," he said. 
Among the privileges axed by Clinton were chauffeur-driven limousines for top Cabinet deputies, money-losing ex­ecutive dining rooms at federal offices and some flights on gov­ernment aircraft. 
The cuts would trim adminis­trative costs by 14 percent over four years. Communications di­rector George Stephanopoulos said the White House had planned to make it an 11 per­cent cut, but Clinton changed his mind this morning. 
"The president thought that (11 percent) wasn't enough. He scratched it out of the executive order and made it 14" percent, the spokesman said. 
"I think government can care about people and be careful with their money," Clinton said. 
The president said that he would achieve the cuts in fed­eral manpower through attri­tion, not by firing government workers. "I see no need for layoffs," he said. 
A week before he unveils an economic package of tax in­creases, new spending and tax breaks to both boost the econ­omy and lower the deficit, Clinton said he wants to prove to the nation that "government can do more with less." 
Clinton asserted that perquisites and privileges for government officials had grown during the 12-year rule of Republican Presidents Reagan and Bush. "That era has come to an end with our coming to office," he said. 
At Clinton's behest, several Cabinet members told individ­ual tales of finding and elimi­nating excesses. 
Labor Secretary Robert Reich said he eliminated the Labor Department's executive dining room. "Once executives had to eat in the cafeteria with normal employees, we saw a lot more interactions that didn't happen before." 
Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt said he was shutting down a horse riding center in the Virginia countryside for high-ranking government offi­cials. "It's entirely unneces­sary." 
The most significant of today's orders follow through on Clinton's campaign pledges to eliminate at least 100,000 fed­eral jobs through attrition and to cut administrative costs by 3 percent annually throughout government. 


Student Body Presidential Election Results 

Total number of students voting -3997 
.Flynn/W~tlf:Q~nn 
.. .i ( ... . . ..... rec~.ived•••.~•··•ITlajority· .vote••••in·..these •dorms
.••... ·.·Alumni, eamo,a.p.,CatroU~.Oi!Johi. Fishet;.F~Einner, 

itf~~~~~-~~~=~M~i~~~r~~apf¢:~pus ··· · 


\{··•···· ·.·.·. ··· ··· ··Tha Qbse&er/Ann4ilarie COnraoo 

U.S. might enforce peace in Yugoslavia 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Clinton admfnistration said Wednesday U.S. troops could be sent to enforce peace in the 
• News analysis I page 3 
former Yugoslavia if warring factions can negotiate a settle­ment. "Our conscience revolts" at unending accounts of murder 
,and rape, Secretary of State Warren Christopher said. 
Unveiling a six-point peace plan after three weeks of study by the new administration, Christopher said, "No great power can dismiss the likely consequences of letting a Balkans conflict rage." 
The deepening war, its threat to neighboring nations and the long-seated religious and cultural hatred now aflame in the area pose a critical test for the new president, who will also have to marshal world opinion behind his position. 

"We inherit at this early point in our administration a tragic and dangerous situation," Christopher said. He denounced Serbian "ethnic cleansing" aimed at Muslims in Bosnia­Herzegovina and called the crisis "an important moment for our post-Cold War role in Europe and the world." 
President Clinton said earlier in the day that the American public will support the plan. "I think they want us to do more, but they want us to do it in a prudent way.". 
see BOSNIA! page 4 

Group lends its support to women's center campaign 
By JASON WILLIAMS would provide a central hub News Writer for coordinating women's activities at Notre Dame. Saint 
The Women's Res_ource Mary's has had a women's Committee took another step resource center since the mid-in their effort to establish a 1980s, she said. women's resource center at The Women's Faculty-Stu­Notre Dame with an endorse­dent Committee usually does ment from the Women's Fac­not accept proposals from out­ulty-Student Committee. side groups, but they made an 
The Women's Resource exception in O'Donnell's case, Committee presented nearly according to Sister Kathleen 1,000 petition signatures and a Cannon, chair of the Women's mission statement to the Faculty-Student Committee. Women's Faculty-Student "We don't usually depart Committee Friday morning. from our usual way of pro­The faculty committee over­ceeding, but we decided to whelmingly endorsed the hear what they had to say," group's intentions with a 7-3 Cannon said. "We have no vote, according to Patty authority to make any formal O'Donnell, chair of the changes. We just ask questions Women's Resource Committee. to clarify their position and 
"There were three dis­goals." senters, but we had a chance Although the endorsement to argue against the objections from the Women's Faculty-Stu­which came up against us," dent Committee has no admin­she said. "We're not looking to istrative significance in estab­be separatist. Our overall goal lishing the resource center, it is to foster relationships does signify that the movement between men and women for a center is backed by more within the Notre Dame· than just students. community." "Going to Student Affairs 
According to O'Donnell, a with the endorsement of the women's resource center 
see WOMEN I page 4 
~-----~------------------------­

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 












An outsider 
celebrates 

cultural diversity 
Cultural diversity. Meredith The words aren't hard 
McCollough

to say. The words aren't Associate News hard to hear. But Editor 
understanding? That is ________ where so many of us run into problems. The phrase has almost become a buzz-word, used so often it loses it's impact. 
Tuesday night I caught a glimpse-just a glimpse-of a tangible, believable cultural diversity. Tuesday night was a celebration ol Martin Luther King, Jr.-as the "Educated Educator," and it was unlike anything I have ever seen. 
Tuesday night was also a celebration of the black community. 
It was a night of struggles, of passions. of heroes, of people, of music, of death, of life, of tears. of power, of shouts, of nightmares, of dreams, of anger, of soul. 
I am an outsider. I know that. I can't feel the pain that African American community has felt for so long. I know that too. 
The celebration was unlike anything I have 
TODAY AT AGLANCE

seen. Seen. I watched it. I watched the Voices of Faith. I watched Sister Regina Coil talk about King and how he valued education. I watched 
WORLD NATIONAL

Karsonya Wise and her dramatic interpretation of a woman who marched with King. I watched 
The Pooe criticizes Sudan's leader Buried radioactive waste discovered
it all. 
•KHARTOUM, Sudan -Pope John •ANCHORAGE, Alaska -Radioactive waste that Paul II told Sudan's military leader on federal scientists carried to Alaska in a cloth sack 30
A woman in the audience let forth a pas­

Wednesday that his Muslim years ago as part of an experiment will be shipped to asionate shout. Throwing her hands in the air 
fundamentalist government had a duty nuclear dump this summer. The waste was buried at a
she rose from her chair. She was not just 
to protect Christians struggling for the test site near Point· Hope in 1962 -and discovered lastwatching. 
freedom to practice their faith. September by a researcher poring over old governmentAt times I felt like rising to my feet as well. I President Omar Hassan el-Bashir records. It is to be excavated and shipped to a nuclearfelt like crying and shouting, "I wasn't there. I denied Christians were oppressed. But waste dump in Hanford, Wash., at a cost of $3 million,didn't do it. It wasn't me." I wanted the anger 
a human rights group insisted the Sudanese government the Department of Energy said Tuesday. Native leadersto subside. 
systematically violated the rights of ethnic and religious said the plan satisfied their immediate concerns, butStill, there I sat in the back row and watched. 
minorities. Religious, political and racial conflicts they still want the federal government to conduct health exploded in civil war 10 years ago in the mainly studies in the region. 
I saw a little girl crying because she didn't 
Christian and animist south. where black African rebels

understand why she was mistreated at school. I are fighting for independence against the government in Two "Cheers" actors sue over robots
saw the evidence and degradation of 
the Arab Muslim north. •LOS ANGELES -The actors who play the char­
segregation. I saw footage of the Freedom 
acters of Norm and Cliff on "Cheers" are suing overMarches and the violence that was inflicted by what they claim are robot copies of them placed in air­
Teacher suspended for child's death 

police there. 
port lounges. The lawsuit was filed last month in Los
•TOKYO -A local court gave a three-year suspended 

Angeles federal court on behalf of actors George Wendt
sentence to a teacher today for accidentally slamming a
I heard beautiful voices-not just from the 

and John Ratzenberger. their lawyer. Patrick Freydl.
school gate on a 15-year-old student's head and killing

choir, but from Karsonya. She spoke with such said Wednesday. The lawsuit against Host International
her. The case is viewed as a symbol of the sometimes

intonation and such passion, taking on the asks that pairs of robots depicting two barflys be
brutal rigidity of the Japanese educational system. Hosoi

persona of someone who lived through the Civil removed from Host airport lounges, Freydl said. It also
closed the front gate of Hyogo Prefectural Takatsuki

Hights Movement, someone who had patience seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. 
High School in an effort to reprimand tardy students.

and hope until she just couldn't take it anymore. 
The robots, which perch on bar stools and exchange
Ryoko Ishida, 15, arrived late and was caught in the

Some of the things she said were disturbing, but electronic chitchat, are named Bob and Hank.
heavy metal gate, which crushed her skull. The judge And I could feel in the air the whispers that so 

I am sure that was no accident. 
said the teacher's negligence resulted in Ishida's death, many of those frustrations are still alive today. 
but he said he handed down a suspended sentence in part because he had shown remorse. 

I have heard much about many African Americans feeling they need to stick together, but I have never had the chance to really 


OF INTEREST

understand why. Likewise, I have never had the chance to really see the beauty of this togetherness. 



I was on the outside. I know that. But at the 

•"Physically Challenged" Fireside Chat will be forms will be kept on file in our Career Library for use by end of the celebration, the choir sang the black 
today from 12 to 1 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, Second summer job seekers. national anthem, and everybody sang. 
Floor of LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by the We all did. 

Multicultural Executive Council. •African American Student Alliance elections for president and vice-president will be held on Feb. 28. An 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are 
•Knott Hall Medallion Hunt clue #3: If you're in organizational meeting will be held on Feb. 17 in the 
those ofthe author and not necessarily those 
danger of giving up, just follow the University's rules. multicultural lounge at LaFortune. Registration forms 
of The Observer. 
This way you cannot fail to find the desired jewels. will be available in the office of Minority Student Affairs tomorrow. For more information eall 631-6841. 
•The NO Summer Job Network needs suggestions. 


Seniors who have had rewarding work experience re­•Natural Family Planning will have an informational lated to their major and are willing to recommend jobs meeting from 7 to 8 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
Today's Staff: 

for other students, please stop by Career and Placement Rm. 122. All are welcome. Call 237-7401 for more in­Services to complete a Summer Job Network form. The formation.
News Systems 
Sandy Wiegand Matt Carbone Bevin Kovalik 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY
Viewpoint Production Amara Graf 







• In 1929: The Lateran Treaty was signed, with Italy Susan Marx 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 10 

recognizing the independence of Vatican City. Whitney Sheets Accent 
• In 1937: General Motors agreed to recognize the United VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
Automobile Workers union, ending a strike.
Lynn Bauwens 
248,497,425 +0.397 to 245.93 

• In 1945: President Franklin D. Roosevelt. British Prime
Sports 

S&P COMPOSITE 

Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet leader Josef Stalin
Jason Kelly Graphics 
+0. 90 to 446.23 

signed the Yalta Agreement during World War II.
Ann-Marie Conrado 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

• In 1979: Followers of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini seized ·2.16 to 3,412.42 
power in Iran.
UNCHANGED 

• In 1988: President Reagan's former political director, LynGOLD 
631 



Nofziger, was found guilty of illegally lobbying top White 
+ $4.00 to $333.40 oz.
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday 
House aides. 

through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
SILVER 

• In 1990: South African activist Nelson Mandela was freed
Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
+ $0.062 to $3.762 oz.

rights are reserved. 
after spending 27 years in captivity. 

Thursday, February 11 , 1993 The Observer page 3 



New ROTC award available 
By MIKE DeFRANCO News Writer 
The United States Air Force has recently instituted a pro­gram through which Air Force ROTC cadets not presently on scholarship might receive a $2,000 dollar award. 
According to Brig. General Robin Tornow, commandant of Headquarters Air Force ROTC, the new Professional Officer Course Incentive Scholarship Program, was founded to en­courage cadets to continue with ROTC and to show people that the Air Force is looking for people to enter the service. 
Captain Alan Andrysiak, as­sistant professor of Aerospace Studies of Notre Dame's De­tachment 225, said that even though the Air Force is releas­ing people of higher ranks, it still needs new blood to join and lead it into the 21st century. 
This scholarship will serve as an incentive for men and women to sign up and as a re­ward for juniors and seniors who have remained in ROTC even though they are not under scholarship, Andrysiak said. 

Heaven &Earth 143 Dixie Way South (31 North) Across from Bob Evans 


273-2212 

..Prouocatiue, funny. 1 t Sizzles!! .. 
o -Bill Clinton 
CAVANAUGH HALL PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS ..... 
A Two-Act Comedy of Intrigue. 
Adventure and Amour by Larry Shue 


THE FOREIGNER 
"For Once I Agree With Mr. Clinton. This Play Maintains Traditional Family Values and Still Remains a Laugh Riot. This Play is the Way Things Ought to Be!!" -Rush Limbaugh 
"Even Though Ah Don't Like Foreign Lobbyists, This Play Definitely Gets Under the Hood and Fixes the Engine!!" -Ross Perot 
Washington Hall, Feb I D, II, 12 at &-I0_ Tickets 13 Student, 14 !Von-Student A val/able at LaFortune Information Oesk Starting February /st. 
Colonel Thomas Moe added,"We need young people to keep the arms forces vi­brant." 
This Incentive Program should affect the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC program in two ways, said Andrysiak. First, qualified juniors and seniors who are presently in the program, but not on scholar­ship, will receive $1000 a semester to help cover costs of tuition, books, and fees at Notre Dame. 
Secondly, he said it will at­tract sophomore cadets who might be interested in the Air Force and who are looking for some added financial assis­tance. 
"Cadets are being told about the scholarship and are given the option as to whether they wish to take it or not," he said. Those cadets who have a cumu­lative and term GPA of at least 
2.0 are eligible to receive the scholarship and must maintain a 2. 3 5 for their remaining semesters to keep it. 
Air Force Headquarters said this standard is scheduled to change in the fall of 1994 when initial eligibility requirements will rise to a 2.5 cumulative and term GPA. 
Because Notre Dame's tuition is higher compared with other universities, Andysiak said, "The impact here will be differ­ent than at state schools." 
He said it will be a positive one nevertheless. High cost or no high cost, he said, "We have some people not on scholarship who are going to pick up $2000 a year." 
Andrysiak said that this scholarship differs from others the Air Force commonly awards. He said the Air Force typically awards scholarships to students in technical fields such as engineering and sciences. It also gives awards to nursing students and qualified minority applicants. These scholarships are given to groups that "meet the needs of the Air Force," he said. 
"The Incentive Scholarship differs because it is designed to pick up all cadets not just needs we have," Andrysiak said. The Air Force has designed this In­centive Scholarship to augment its "Express Scholarship." 
"The 'Express Scholarship' was instituted to attract specific majors and provides two and three year full scholarships to those qualified," said Andysiak. The Notre Dame Air Force ROTC program will award eight of these scholarships this year to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
According to both Moe and Andysiak, these two scholar­ships are part of a concerted effort by the Air Force to show students that enrolling in the Air Force is a chance to be part of a military that wishes to have an influence over the world's peace in the future. 


-~~~~~would prefer ,:la.end ..his term early
Mr:,.::::::;::·,:':;·: ·:: ..·, .. : ··. ·::-== ·., ··__ ,,_·.:=:·::-::=:=:r~t:#L.:· =.:.::.. ... ··:·:·,:)Jb=··· · ··· · , 
ON•.{~J?)•·•······.•...•.··.<J~n. getmy family resettled." He said he had. made bis wish
.............·..·· . . .··.. •· .. ~~i~ •We(llle!>day~? \¥ill cotri~fete .• ~ts terrn ~s known privately before Clint{m t;~aitiJI.~~ of~~~ J.o~11t (:lliefs of took office.. and Powell's St~,~.if a!>"ed by·~resident spokesman said it was reiter~ GlintQn., bl.lt wo~ld prefer to ated to Les Aspin, the new de­
fense secretary; 
ln a later CNN interview, when told that White House spo:kesmt:\n had said CUnton wants .hi:in: to serve outhis full 
Po\i\r~ll indicated he 

W()nld stay on'the jobifasked,. · . "fwill st~y for whatever pe~riod of term that tht'l president ..·.wishes/~ Powell said•• "lserve 
.,. tiltunately at his pleasure, and I haven'tbeard that(Clinton wants . blm to stay through Septembet); but I'm delighted to hear that." 
The law allows Powell to serve a third two-year term as h~ad of the Joint Chiefs. But custom dictates that he leave after.four•. and Clinton lias 
· giv¢n nJ> indication t)lat lie woUld renominate Powell. 
Clinton chooses risky path with Balkan plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -By 
endorsing an international 
peacekeeping force that could 
place U.S. troops in Bosnia, 
President Clinton has stepped 
over a line his predecessor de­
terminedly would not cross. 
The risks are obvious: a 
commitment that has no dis­
cernible end, and the specter of 
American casualties in a war 
that has no battle lines. 
Bosnia is a place that will 
prove a lot easier to get into 
than to get out of. That assess­
ment is offered often enough. 
"That's not a cliche, that's a 
truth," former defense secre­
tary James Schlesinger said in 
an interview. 


Medical School 
Key issues in Admission and Survival 

Valentine's Day Special 
A Panel Discussion with 

ROSES
Four Indiana University 
$18°0 a dozen 
Medical School Students 
Fri-Sat-Sun 

Maternowski Market 
U.S. 31 North
Saturday, February 13 

1/2 mi. North ofSt. Mary's
10 a.m.-noon 
at 2"d traffic light 
127 Nieuwland 
Roseland
Science Hall 
272-0970 



7 Day Deli,.rery-:­
Roses · Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Clocktower Square (219)277 .. 1291 '<-o,e'<-~ 51400 31 North 0 ~'t Sauth Bend, IN 46637 ~~ o.~""' 
Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 
News Analysis 

At a State Department news conference, Secretary of State Warren Christopher said the United States would shoulder its share of the burden to en­force any cease-fire agreement -including possible military action. 
He gave no indication of the size of the military force. But Indiana Sen. Richard Lugar said Christopher told him that as many as 5,000 to 10,000 American troops would join the estimated 40,000-member NATO force that would go to Bosnia under U.N. auspices once a new peace accord is concluded. 
During the 1992 presidential campaign, Bill Clinton often chastised President Bush for a misguided policy toward the former Yugoslavia, for a failure to act decisively to end the pol­icy of ethnic cleansing that caused the deaths of thousands of innocent people. 
With the announcement Wednesday of the six-point U.S. plan to end the fighting, Clinton put his own stamp on U.S. pol­icy in the Balkans. · 


Thursday, February 11, 1993 The Observer page 4 

NBC issues an apology for rigged GM truck test 


General Motors planning to appeal court decision barring plant closing 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) -Shelton did not specify in his promising to provide thousands General Motors Corp. is obli­one-paragraph order how long of jobs. gated to keep open a plant in a the plant must remain open. GM, the judge said, "lulled the community that gave the au­GM lawyer Lee Schutzman people of the Ypsilanti area into tomaker years of tax breaks in called the ruling ridiculous and · giving up millions of tax dollars exchange for jobs, a judge ruled said it would have no immedi­which they so desperately need in a setback to GM's money­ate impact on the plant 30 miles to educate their children and saving plans. west of Detroit because provide basic governmental 
GM said it would appeal production is scheduled to con­services." Tuesday's ruling preventing it tinue through July. Schutzman denied that GM from closing the Willow Run Ypsilanti Township sued GM entered into a contract or made assembly plant in Ypsilanti after the auto giant announced promises. Township as planned this in February 1992 that Willow Workers at Willow Run said summer. The automaker had Run was among 21 plants it they were happy with the rul­planned to shift production to a would close as part of a huge ing, but many said they doubted factory in Arlington, Texas. restructuring to cut costs and it would hold up on appeal. 
"There would be a gross eliminate 74,000 jobs by 1995. "General Motors has got more inequity and patent unfairness The township said it granted money than I feel we've got if General Motors ... is allowed GM tax abatements in 1984 and time to fight it," said Herbert to simply decide that it will 1988 worth $13.5 million in ex­Backhuas, who has worked at desert 4,500 workers and their change for keeping the plant's the plant for 24 years. families because it thinks it can jobs. The abatements run "I think a lot of people think it make these same cars a little through 2003. doesn't matter -General cheaper somewhere else," Cir­After a nine-day trial, Shelton Motors is going to close it no cuit Judge Donald Shelton ruled the automaker couldn't matter what," said Jerry ruled. abandon Willow Run after Franklin, a worker for 15 years. 
reached. "We are prepared to decision yet on whether ground use our military power to en­troops would act as peaeekeep­

Bosnia 
force the agreement," Christo­ers. continued from page 1 pher said at a news conference. At this stage, he said, "it is But Sen. Richard Lugar, R­
The secretary of state an­premature to try to analyze ex­Ind., a senior member of the nounced the possibility of using actly what kind of military Foreign Relations Committee, American troops as part of an power is necessary." said Christopher called him and international force to enforce Other senior U.S. officials, said that as many as 5,000 to peace terms if they can be speaking on condition of 10,000 American troops could 
anonymity, said there was no join a 40,000-member NATO 


Women 
continued from page 1 
Women's Faculty Student Committee is better than going just as students," O'Donnell said. "The endorsement shows students, faculty and staff all agree that there is a need for a resource center on campus." 
O'Donnell worked on schedul­ing a meeting with the office of Student Affairs Thursday. Their intention is to ask for an office and possible funding, she said. The Graduate Student Union (GSU) has $600 waiting to give to the resource center once it becomes officially established. 
"We're going to ask Student Affairs for an office with a tele­phone for starters," O'Donnell said. "Hopefully they'll be will­ing to fund some of our ex­penses as well." 
O'Donnell also said the Women's Resource Committee is seeking funding from sources outside the University. 
"We've applied for money from over a dozen different women's groups across the country," she said. "We've al­ready received seven rejection letters from these sources -so things don't look good there, but the money from GSU should be enough to cover most of our start-up costs and get us off the ground." 

NEW YORK (AP) -"Dateline NBC" staffers braced for the worst, but no heads rolled Wednesday after an on-air apology for rigging a General Motors truck's gas tanks to explode on impaet -and not telling viewers. 
"'We've suffered a black eye, but it's important for all of us to look ahead,"' Executive Producer Jeff Diamond told 30 to 40 staffers assembled in the show's fifth-floor offices, according to one participant. 
'"We made a mistake. We made a bad mistake,"' he said. Diamond did not dwell on the show's Nov. 17 broadcast, which Jed to GM's filing a defamation lawsuit Monday against NBC. 
That broadcast's 15-minute segment on GM light truck fire 
force that might go to Bosnia under U.N. auspices once a new peace accord is concluded. 
Other key provisions of the administration plan include the appointment of Reginald Bartholomew, the U.S. ambas­sador to NATO, to assist inter­national mediators forge agreement, and a pledge to deaths included what NBC initially called an "unscientific demonstration" of a fiery broadside erash into a GM truck. 
On Tuesday night's show, "Dateline NBC" retracted that portion of the report, with co­anchors Jane Pauley and Stone Phillips reading a detailed acknowledgement of those journalistic errors in the rigged crash. The retraction settled the lawsuit. 
The crash truck, one of 4. 7 million made between 1973 and 1987 with "sidesaddle" gas tanks mounted outside its frame, was fitted with incendiary devices to ensure an explosion if the gas tank broke. 
tighten the U.N. trade embargo against Serbia and Montenegro. 
Christopher, at a news con­ference, denouneed the Serbs, accusing them of a wide range of atrocities in Bosnia-Herze­govina, but he said President Clinton had ruled out providing the Muslims with U.S. weapons or using U.S. air power to si­lence Serbian mortar fire. 





sununer ded 
~~~rica
111 

Mexico, Ecuador, Paraguay, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Brazil 
Work • Share • Live • Learn 
You can have a surruner full of adven­Write or call: ture and personal growth while im­Amigos de las Americas proving health for people of Latin 5618 Star Lane America... Houston, Texas 77057 
800/231-7796
Volunteer! 
Application deadline: March 1,93' 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
Contact Jeanne Blasi at 1-5303 for more information. 



BE WICKED ... 

DON'T SEND FLOWERS! 
Send your Valentine sinfully Delicious Chocolates by the Box, Bag, or Basket. 

WE CAN SHIP ANYWHERE... TODAY! 
1-800-344-5841 • LAPORTE Prices from $995 and up 


GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT Friday, February 19-Sunday, February 21 
7:00 p.m. Noon 
A time of silence and reflection
' 

companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place: Crowe House, on the shore of Lake Michigan, 30 miles northwest of Notre 1:\lme. 
Deadline; Reservations for the twelve available places will be accepted until Wednesday February 17. ' 
Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences (.3 1-8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. Cost: $15.00 fur Uu! cost of meals and snacks. 
' -..! (' I 0 
Thursday, February 11 , 1993 The Observer page 5 
Bush employees got late bonuses Secretaries authorized them just before leaving 

WASHINGTON (AP) -At least five Bush Cabinet secretaries authorized tens of thousands of dollars in bonuses for senior employees in the closing months of their tenures. 
Five minutes before Bill Clinton took the oath of office last 'month, outgoing Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan proposed cash bonuses for 12 senior career officials at the Interior Department. 
Calling that timing "outrageous," Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt said Wednesday he will review the bonuses. 
Former Labor Secretary Lynn Martin awarded eight bonuses totaling $22,000 for departing political appointees between Nov. 1 and Inauguration Day, and the Agriculture Department gave year-end bonuses of up to $12,500 to more than 50 senior employees, spokesmen said. Several senior employees at the Department of Housing and Urban Development also received bonuses, according to a department source who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The biggest Labor Department bonus, $4,000, went to Martin's chief of staff, John Schall. 
The Washington Post reported Tuesday that in his last weeks in office, former Attorney General William P. Barr awarded a total of more than $108,000 in bonuses to 37 Justice Department employees. They included members of his security detail, his secretary and two of his closest aides. 
The practice of giving cash bonuses to government employees is legal, and Bush administration officials say it also has occurred under earlier presidencies. 

The bonuses proposed by Lujan for. the Interior Department officials totaled 
. about $170,000, said congressional sources who spoke on condition of anonymity. They said five of the officials were supposed to receive about $20,000 each and the other seven were to get $10,000. The money has not yet been paid. Lujan listed the officials' names in a signed memo dated Jan. 20 at 11:55 a.m. to Doug Brook, acting director of the federal Office of Personnel Management. In the memo, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press, Lujan told Brook that the 12 had been nominated for "presidential rank awards." 
Clinton sells economic·plan in TV town hall 
SOUTHFIELD, Mich. (AP) -like ine shouldn't hide from the to be unveiled next Wednesday President Clinton laid the people who elected them. I in a speech to Congress ­groundwork Wednesday for think we ought to be account­would spur the economy and selling his economic plan by able." reduce the deficit "in a way that pledging to both create jobs and Clinton told the rally at Sel­is fair to the American people." slash the deficit. But he fridge Air National Guard Base "It isn't easy, I'll tell you that. 
conceded: "It isn't easy." in nearby Detroit that the na­But I'm doing my best," he Making his first out-of-town tion's debt was much higher added. 
trip as president, Clinton gave a than he expected when he took Clinton arrived here after his pep talk to supporters at an office. first ride on Air Force One.

Admittedly All Nuns Are 
Not In Their 30s. 

airport hangar before heading "I had to go back to the During the 1 1/2-hour flight, the for a television studio for the · drawing board" and redo the president took a quick tour of
Some Are Lots Younger. 

made-for-TV event. economic plan, said Clinton, the jumbo jet. He was given a 
He told a crowd of about 200 bundled in an overcoat against blue jacket with the presidential that he liked such televised fo­the near-freezing weather. seal and stitching that read, rums "because I believe people He said that his package -"Bill Clinton." 
SISTHRS OF ST. BllNEDICT
•

Find out what bting a nun rtaUy mtam. Call Sisttr Rou Mary Rtxing at 812-367-1411 
ICEBERG DEBATES Tonight! 9:00p.m. 

To determine the final two qualifiers for the quarterfinals next week 
Morrissey at Pangborn Alumni Bat Keenan 

Resolved: That the University should recognize pro-choice student groups. 

AIDS-like illness is probably not result of single new virus 
page 6 
Thousands pay their last respects to Arthur Ashe 
HICIIMOND. Va. (API ­Thousands of p110ple, ranging from heads of government and sports ligures to everyday ad­mirers, came from around the world Wednesday for Arthur Ashe's funeral. 
They saluted his diligence in rising from a segregated Hichmond to become the first black man to win Wimbledon and the U.S. Open. And they thanked him for his tireless ef­forts on behalf of minorities, children and AIDS research. 
Ashe. 49, died in New York Saturday of AIDS-related pneumonia. Doctors believe he contracted the AIDS virus from a blood transfusion during heart surgery in 1983. 
"In tennis and in life, Arthur always understood just how un­fair this world can be," said Virginia Gov. Douglas Wilder. "And he used every fiber of his strength, on and off the court. to right the world's injustice." 
Other speakers included New York Mayor David Dinkins and · Leroy Walker, president of the 
U.S. Olympic Committee. Former U. N. Ambassador An­drew Young delivered the eu­logy. 
Among the pallbearers were former French Open champion Yannick Noah and several of Ashe's Davis Cup teammates: Stan Smith, Charlie Pasarell and Donald Dell. 
The service was held at the Arthur Ashe Athletic Center. a sports arena the city built in 1981 and named after its native son. 
On Tuesday night, thousands waited in cold darkness for as long as two hours to view Ashe's body lying in state at the Executive Mansion. 

The Observer Thursday, February 11, 1993 

The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 
Computer technology 

Graduate student Isabel Lobo and off-campus junior Tony DeiGallo welcome senior Jim Sullivan to the computer demonstration yesterday in DeBartolo Hall which introduced the latest services offered by the campus computer network. 
BOSTON (APJ -A mysterious outbreak of AIDS-like illness that created an uproar last summer probably has many different causes and almost certainly doesn't result from a single new virus. several studies conclude. 
The studies suggest that the disease is actually a mishmash of similar-looking ailments that have been around a long time and are not contagious. 
"When you look at the clini­cal, epidemiological and labora­tory results. one doesn't sen a 
Experimental AIDS vaccine is criticized by researchers who question effectiveness 
NEW YOHK (AP} -An ex­perimnntal AIDS vaccinn schndulnd for federal testing because of lobbying by its manufacturer came under criticism by three researchers. 
The researchers said labora­tory studies show the vaccine would not efficiently prime the immune system to create anti­bodies that attack the AIDS virus at a protein known as gpl20. 
The vaccine, manufactured by MicroGeneSys Inc. of Meriden, Conn .. is to be tested by the Defense Department to see if it helps people infected with the AIDS virus fend off the disease. The study resulted from congressional lobbying on be­half of MicroGeneSys. 
John Moore of the Aaron Di­amond AIDS Hesearch Center in 
r Coupon----------­
:to% ~•w~" 
1 SuccessoriesTM 
16501 N. Grape Road • University Park Mall • 273~2200 I 
I 
I I I 
IExJrfPlwfPl@fPlli11ZfPl
I I I -In Person-I I Saturday, February 13 I
1 noon-3 p.m. 1 TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
FREE DRAWINGS• FREE AUTOGRAPHS•FREE GIVE-AWAYS I 1·800·321·5911 
L 
-----------~ 
consistent pattern. That sug­gests perhaps this whole syn­drome is composed of patients with different causes," said Dr. David Ho, head of the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center in New York City. 
The illness came to light at July's International Conference on AIDS in Amsterdam. where it was the No. 1 topic. 
Several researchers-at the meeting spoke of patients who had many earmarks of AIDS but were not infected with HJV, the AIDS virus. Chief among those 
New York, one of the re­searchers criticizing the vac­cine, cautioned in an interview that the antibodies are not the only way a vaccine might light AIDS. He said his observations were simply part of a scientific disagreement over how to de­sign such a vaccine. 
MicroGeneSys said in a statement that the antibodies Moore referred to appear "in nearly all AIDS patients, but do not prevent progression to dis­ease." 
The company said that on the basis of the vaccine's per­formance in research so far, it has been chosen for a study in humans by the Karolinska In­stitute and National Bacteriological Laboratory in Sweden. 
signs was low levels of helper cells, also known as CD4 cells, which orchestrate the body's defenses against infections. 
The cases raised the possi­bility that some unidentified virus was on the loose, causing a new form of AIDS. Some re­searchers at the meeting even said they had glimpsed tantaliz­ing signs that a new virus might be causing it. 
Since then, the condition has gotten a name -idiopathic CD4 T-lymphocytopenia, or ICL ­and intensive lab study. In 
The comments by Moore, George Lewis of the University of Maryland in Baltimore and James Robinson of the Univer­sity of Connecticut in Farming­ton appear in a letter to the edi­tor in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 

Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine, re­searchers published six reports on it. 
"The cases represent a hodgepodge of different clinical and immunological entities. We are not talking about just one disease," said Dr. Scott Holm­berg of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, co-author of one of the studies. 
Among other conclusions: 
•The condition is rare. In all, 111 U.S. cases have been re­ported. The CDC found just two when it reviewed 230,179 cases in its AIDS Iiles. 
•It 
is not contagious. Spouses and acquaintances of victims have not caught it, and it does not seem to spread through blood transfusions. 

•Many 
cases probably result from a menagerie of bacteria, funguses and other parasites. Poisons or environmental toxins might also play a role. A few victims are in the early stages of HIV infections but have not produced signs of the AIDS virus yet. 




will be held Saturday, April 17, 1993 
Any bands interested in participating can pick up an application in the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor ofLafortune 
*Application deadline is Monday, March 1, 1993* The first 20 bands to turn in applications will be accepted. 
Tiff ST,1Nf"Onn 1/tll./. 1'/:AC/. /'11/Wl/G/IT SA Tm/7.11 TH>N I'L1 \THS 1'/WI//J/.Y 1'/lt:Sf.NT 
lf!M~ }j}fffjfff)]jj ~~(-) §}If~ {§4j[ffil(@)!tf1@) ~(@{§4]/f~§J!f 
Wt~.s/,:~11.,., 
;-/ ~ 1/ I 


! ~~ 
(.) •',)". ~ 
Ij " II 

Saturday, February 13th 8:00PM 
Band BO\'JNE SOLUTION starts at 7:30PM 
Tickets $3.00 
Avail,1ble ,Jt the l.al·ortune lnform,1tion Desk 
A,,,Jr0 c e e ds d0 11£7 tl't! r0 Tire Log·lln Ccnf"er 
~~----------------------------------------------~ 

-~--------------~-­
~ 

Thursday, February 11 , 1993 The Observer 
Iraq refuses to release jailed Britons 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -Iraq on Wednesday rejected pleas to release two jailed Britons until Britain first frees millions of dollars of Iraqi assets seized during the Persian Gulf War. 
Michael Whitlam. head of the British Red Cross, said after a 45-minute meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz that Baghdad had denied requests by the Britons' relatives to free them. 
"It is bad news.... No release for the two men in the foreseeable future," said Whit­lam. "We talked about the two men and he is in no way pre­pared to even talk about a deal." 
Aziz reiterated his statement, made last week on British tele-
Disguised Israeli soldiers kill two Arabs in Gaza Strip 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Israeli soldiers in the occupied Gaza Strip, reportedly dressed as Arabs, opened fire Wednesday on Palestinian teen-agers dressed in military uniforms, killing two of them, the army said. 
The shooting came as the army was searching for the slayers of an Israeli vegetable merchant gunned down the day before in Gaza. In less than a week, a dozen Palestinians have been killed in clashes with Israeli troops in the occupied lands. 
• 
.~Ill rtJ~CO s
f'c,u ~ 
I 1 

Open Valentine's Day 
10% discount on dinners for ND/SMC students with lD 
vision, that the men could be freed if London releases Iraqi assets, Whitlam said. 
Whitlam accompanied four relatives of the two prisoners, Paul Ride, 33, of'London and Michael Wainwright, 42, of Sowbery Bridge in West York­shire, on a trip to Baghdad to visit the pair and try to win their release. 
Wainwright and Ride have been imprisoned for illegally entering Iraq. 
"Daddy come home. Daddy come home," Ride's 23-month­old son. William, told reporters before the families made their second visit to the Abu Ghraib prison outside Baghdad. He held a cookie in one hand and a bottle in the other. 
The army did not say what type of uniforms the teen­agers were wearing. 
The clash, in the village of Zawaydah, occurred when the soldiers encountered a group of masked activists, the army said. 
The Palestinians, armed with axes and hatchets, threatened the unit's commander and the soldiers opened fire, the army said. 
One Palestinian died im­mediately and the other was taken to a hospital in Israel where he later died, the army said. 
Valentine's Day Special for two -Lasagna 
Homemade Spaghetti, 
Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana 
256-1444 
1213 Lincolnway West Mishawaka just East of 1 00 Center 
"They are fine, they are OK," said the boy's mother, Julie Ride. "They need permission to jog, they can watch TV and they have access to radios." · 
In London, a Foreign Office spokesman, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, called Iraq's continuing refusal to release the two men "deeply disappointing and not in Iraq's best interests." 
The British Foreign Office has reiterated its refusal to turn over the assets until Iraq complies fully complies with United Nations resolutions stemming from the Gulf War. 
The official Iraqi News Agency, monitored by the Bri­tish Broadcasting Corp., re-
ALL PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEMBERS! 

Positions for all Pre-Law Society Officers must be filled for the 1993-94 school year. Any interested member should pick up an application in the Pre-Law office at 104 O'Shaughnessy. All applications should be submitted by February 26. 
$1400 Scholarship for eight weeks of your summer devoted to service work 
dead l;ne Feb, rz" 
stop by the Center for Social Concerns 
for tnfo Gnd t~pp11cGtlon 
ATIENTION 
Haitian refugees vow to continue hunger strike 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba (AP) -Haitian refugees on a hunger strike at the U.S. military base here vowed Wednesday to maintain their fast despite President Clinton's pledge to drop the exclusion of HIV-infected im­migrants. 
Many of the 267 men, women and children confined in the hot, dusty barracks-like camp surrounded by concertina wire have been held for more than a year. 
They have proven they are legitimate political refugees with the right to request asylum in the United States. But the 
U.S. Immigration and Nat­uralization Service refuses to allow refugees infected with HIV, the AIDS virus, to enter the country. All but about 50 spouses and children have tested positive for HIV. 
The Clinton administration said Tuesday the exclusion soon will be lifted, but the refugees won't believe it until it happens. 
"I can't live in this hell any more," said Jean Benedic, 36. 
ported that Aziz had met with Whitlam. It gave no further details. 
Except as an Iraqi-declared barganing chip with London over the assets, the issue of the prisoners is unrelated to the Gulf War. No bombing raids similar to the allied attacks last month to compel Baghdad to respect "no-fly zones" have been threatened to win their freedom. 
The relatives were not present at Whittam's meeting with Aziz, President Saddam Hussein's main foreign policy adviser. 
Ride, a British chef working in Kuwait, was sentenced to 7 years after his arrest at the border in August. 
"If they want 10 or 15 of us to die for the rest of them to live, then 10 or 15 of us will die." 
More than 40,000 Haitians have fled their Caribbean na­tion since President Jean Ber­trand Aristide, Haiti's first freely elected leader, was ousted in a bloody 1991 coup. The United States has shipped most back, saying they're escaping poverty, not oppres­sion. Refugees claim they're fleeing army terror. 
Thousands were processed at Guantanamo before the U.S. Coast Guard began immediately repatriating Haitian boat people intercepted at sea. Hundreds were allowed to pursue their asylum claims in the United States, but those still here were refused entry because of their AIDS status. 
The camp declared a hunger strike two weeks ago and a hard core of about 20 fasters seem willing to die, according to medical and psychiatric offi­cials tending to the camp. 
The hard-core strikers have refused all food and drank only water for the first seven days, according to Dr. Georges Casimir, a Haitian-American psychiatrist who is visiting the camp for an· international doc­tors group. 
They agreed to take other flu­ids only after they were urged to do so by their lawyers and doctors. 

When the Great 
American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
-~--------------.... 
~ page 7 
Mitterrand visits key battlefield in Vietnam 
HANOI, Vietnam {AP) ­Seeking to heal old wounds, French President Francois Mitterrand made a pilgrim· age Wednesday to the bat­tleground where Vietnamese guerrillas crushed his country's forces. He called the Indochina War a mistake. 
The visit to Dien Bien Phu, site of a two-month siege in 1954, was the emotional centerpiece of Mitterrand's historic trip, the first by a Western head of state to Communist Vietnam. 
He later flew to Ho Chi Minh City, which in its former identity as Saigon was once a French colonial capital. 
"French colonialism had to understand the necessity of turning the. page," Mitterrand said after visiting Dien Bien Phu. "I find it satisfying that France is the first Western country that has come here to 
show  its  desire  for  
reconciliation."  
The  Indochina  War  

"appeared to me to be a mistake," he said. 
Mitterrand has been criti­cized by some veterans at home for visiting Dien Bien Phu. But major veterans' groups have been supportive, and on Wednesday they welcomed an announcement from the president's office that he would preside next week at the dedication of an Indochina War memorial in southern France. 
At Dien Bien Phu, Mitter­rand visited the underground bunker that houses France's command post and visted a school built with French funds. He drove along a hilltop dirt road overlooking the valley where French troops attempted to dig in against a Communist offensive. 
The president said he came to "rethink, to experience that which a Frenchman can feel when faced with the sacrifice of his compatriots." 
1 
I 
,. 
I 

..----~---·-~----~-----­
Viewpoint 

page 8 Thursday, February 11, 1993 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

U.S. should pressure Turkey for help in Bosnia 
Dear Editor: 
Part of what is so agonizing for Americans about events in Bosnia is that it is quite unclear what we can do. The consid­erations against any kind of military involvement on the ground are decisive, and ex­perts don't expect bombing to achieve much. Humanitarian aid cannot get through fast enough to avert widespread hunger and fuel shortages. Threats of international os­tracism do not seem to move those in pow11r. And of course th11 embargo does not fe11l much like "doing something." 
The situation in Armenia is rather differ11nt. The people there are also beginning to starve for food and especially fuel. But then~ is something the 
U.S. can do, and we should take steps to do it. 
Armenia is under siege. It borders on four countries: Azerbaijan to the east, Turkey to the west, Iran to the south and the formAr Soviflt republic of Georgia to the north. Since it is landlocked, Armenia receives most of its supplies over land. 
When Armenia was part of the U.S.S.H., this posed no problem, since supplies flowed more or less freely through Georgia. Since thfl breakup of the Soviet Union. however, Ge­orgia has been undergoing what amounts to a civil war, and so it has become nearly impossible to ship supplies safely through that eountry. 
Azerbaijan, which is to Ar­menia what Serbia is to Bosnia, also became independent with the Soviet breakup. As hap­pened in the former Yugoslavia, ancient ethnic hatreds reignited in the absence of the 
DOONESBURY 


dampening oppression of Communist government. In addition to refusing to allow supplies over the border, Azeris have tanks and artillery roaming the Armenian coun­tryside blowing up villages and supply depots. 
So Armenia is effectively cut off from the north and under attack from the east. The bor­der with Iran in the south is closed because during the So­viet period the roads were al­lowed to collapse. In the mountainous Transcaucasus, when roads are not repaired there are soon no roads. 
That leaves Turkey. The Turks are culturally. ethnically and religiously related to the Azeris, who are also Muslims and speak a dialect of Turkish. What's more, there is a long­time animosity with the Arme­nians, who are Christians. This animosity had its most grotesque expression in the massacre of 1.5 million Arme­nians in 1915 by the Turks, although there has been no of­ficial admission of this event by Turkey. 
The Turks clearly are the natural allies of the Azeris, and they too have shut their border 
·with Armenia. Consequently Armenia is running out of fuel in the middle of winter. Some food aid has been flown in, but it is too expensive to fly fuel into the country. 
What should we try to do about this situation, if any­thing? It seems to me that the 
U.S. has the same humanitarian interest in seeing that the 3.5 million Armenians survive the winter as it has in seeing peace in Bosnia and Somalia. And effecting this survival should cost us nothing but some political capital since Armenia can afford fuel once it becomes available. 
What I have in mind is twist­ing the arm of Turkey, which is a member of NATO and an applicant for membership in the European Community. Turkey has much more to gain from the political good will of the West than from a de facto alliance with Azerbaijan. It seems to me we could take advantage of this fact and insist that Turkey do two things. 

First, Turkey must open the border with Armenia. That would free supply routes into the country and permit relief convoys to alleviate the imme­diate need for fuel and food. We need not demand that Turkey help with relief efforts -which may be asking too much under the circumstances -but at least they should refrain from hindering those efforts. Opening the border could also be a first step toward normalizing relations with Armenia, which is a process long overdue. 
Second, the Turks should cease any military support they currently provide the Azeris. Further, we could ask that Turkey use its considerable in­fluence with Azerbaijan to ef­fect a cease fire and eventual withdrawal from Armenia. Eas­ing tensions like this could only help Turkey in dealing with its own Armenian minority and would help stabilize the region. 
· Why should Turkey do this? 
In part because Turkish policy 
has been driven in modern 
times by an effort to shed 
Turkey's autocratic Ottoman 
legacy and fit into the West. Its 
governm11nt is secular, not re­
ligious. It is a democratic re­
public, not a theocracy, monar­
chy or dictatorship like many 
Muslim nations. 
Turkey allowed allied planes 
to fly over Iraq during the Gulf 
war (as they continue to do to­
day), and the Turks were 
among the first to shut off Sad­
dam's oil pipelines. Turkey's 
aims would be substantially 
hindered if the West came to 
see it as a party to regional 
conflicts rather than as part of 
an internationally sponsored 
solution to such conflicts. 
If necessary, this approach to the situation could be spelled out more explicitly: is Turkey more committed to the ideals of the EC or, incompatibly, to its own historically significant ethnic and religious battles? If Turkey's recent behavior is an indication, it seems likely that it would accede to pressure from the West, its conflicts with Ar­menia notwithstanding. 
The West has no direet lever­age with the Azeris, who are not yet in the United Nations. Talking to Iran is unlikely to help in the short run because the roads into Armenia are in disrepair. Georgia is occupied with its own struggles. If we are to help Armenia, we must go through Turkey. We have a way; let's hope our leaders have the will. 
Michael Byron Off Campus 
Feb.8,1993 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
8UT CF Cf)(Jt<Sl3 fT'S It­
Y(}() RliAUY Ell*£ YIJP AT 
15N'T Li6AL-. BUTNOT7D
MARIJUANA 8R.OIUN-L£A5TI 
!TJL.­Hl!iP 5UfF&f?IN6 PEf()­
I&S FOR AI[}S PA-011? UNT!l-
L£GA/..? Pl£/AJ){jtp8BIMMO!?ftJ...
TICNT5, CIJRN&L.l-! I /..OST 
I
MYg){)R{E, 
50MHIWS '!WHAV& 7D 
W&, I f}()N'T I KNOW YOU 
MtAN 70 BRAG, HAV&, MAN. 
MI'V& AUIJAYS 7HAT'5 WHAT AN71A!tl<£/? 7D t11tla M& 
AHIGH&RLAIAJ. 7H!NK CF 
/W5P)£:R 7DA HIGH&!<.. 
I 'fO()! \
\ /.Atl.l! 

'As long as the world is turning and spinning, we're gonna be dizzy and we're gonna make mistakes.' 
Mel Brooks 
QUOTES. PO. Box Q. ND,IN 46556 
Viewpoint

Thursday, February 11 , 1993 page 9 
Homosexuals work well in SFPD 
Bill Clinton ran a successful campaign because he had an advisor who kept him focussed. This adviser hung a sign inside Bill's head. It read, "It's the economy, stupid." 
Ed Manier 
A Left Hook 

I had the Clinton campaign sign in my head and was thinking. "For a guy who ran such a great campaign, the transition and the first week are a disaster. 
"Gays in the military before starting to organize the task forces on health care cost con­tainment, welfare reform, in­dustrial policy, the infra-struc­ture, jobs. The only meat and potatoes stuff the folks who vote Democrat love is the family leave bill." 
Then a wise woman spoke. She said, "Look stupid, it's not just the economy, it's us. We have to pull together. We have to be inclusive. not divisive. 
"We can't afford to waste tal­ent and courage and energy. We have to make Colin Powell understand he's inciting and li­censing gay bashing. 
"If the military has a problem but is insufficiently disciplined to regulate conduct, and attacks good people for who and what they are instead, the problem is not our gays and lesbians. it is our generals and (tailhook) admirals." 
Wednesday, Feb. 3, around 5:30, on National Public Radio (WVPE 88.1 FM) somebody in­terviewPd Anthony Ribera. the chief of the San Francisco Po­lice Department. 
SFPD has 2500 employees and 27 platoons of street cops. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
There is no credible police presence not perceived as be­ing of the community, and the SFPD has a fair percentage of gays and lesbians. 
Ribera handles charges of sexual harassment on a regular basis, but the number of charges filed against gays or lesbians is zero. There's either a massively effective cover-up or GLSFPD are not sexual predators. Your chances of be­ing sexually harassed by a gay SF police officer are lower than your ch.ances as a heterosexual of being a victim of heterosex­ual harassment on campus, or in the Navy. 
Moreover, job efficiency in SFPD platoons that have large numbers of gays and lesbians are significantly above the force average. Presumably if you're gay or lesbian and you sign up for law enforcement, you work at it. Hard. 
The same thing is true if you're gay or lesbian and enlist in the military. Nobody who can pass the requirements for today's all volunteer force joins the Navy to see the boys. 
Would I want to be in a fox­hole with that person? Give me a break, is sexual orientation the first thing you'd check if your life were on the line? 
If you're gay or lesbian and you want to serve your country, I won't advise my relatives of military age not to enlist be­cause of you. 
If Colin Powell would, I pity him. He's Chair of the Joint Chiefs. At whose pleasure does he serve? Is he too young to remember MacArthur's farewell speech to Congress? Does he think Bob Dole or Dan Coates or Strom Thurmond or Jessie Helms are as influential now as Joe McCarthy, Everett Dirksen and Bob Taft were when Truman cashiered MacArthur? 
Powell won't get a chance to "fade away" before a joint ses­sion if he doesn't learn to salute and button his lip. (The rumor that Coates, Dole, Helms and Thurmond want to strip gay silver star winners of their medals is false. Lou Soens checked it.) 
Listen to the wise woman. Clinton's got his first test. He stands up to Sam Nunn and Colin Powell or it's more of the same. Queer bashing today, another scapegoat tomorrow. 
Helms and the religious right will do anything to derail moves to social equity. We don't mean "equal protection" of the laws, we mean there's the right way, the wrong way, and the Army way. 
We don't care if the most qualified, most patriotic per­sons defend their country. We just want straights to defend their country and take showers together. 
For gay bashing Darners out there (you and we know who you are), here's a little free ad­vice: cool your jets. You will not be charged with gay bashing, but with assault and battery with intent to do grave bodily injury. 
A word of friendly advice to any Domer gay or lesbian who's been bashed. Du Lac re­quires ND to protect you from assault and battery. What's more, you've got friends. 
Ed Manier is a professor of philosophy at Notre Dame. 

T h .u r s d a y ' s V e r s e 
Column contained faulty assertions 
Dear Editor: 
I wanted to express my re­gret and dismay over Sarah Doran's Inside Column which appeared on Monday (The Observer, Feb. 8). It is fraught with generalizations and assumptions about the media and its coverage of the bus tragedy which are patently unfair. 
Lost in the "glare and lights" of which Ms. Doran wrote are some facts: 
1) Media access to t~ swim team was controlled by the sports information office. If a newspaper or television station wished to interview one of the student-athletes, the sports in­formation office determined the legitimacy of the request and then conferred with the student-athlete as to whether or not she wanted to be inter­viewed. If she did not, that was the end of the request. 
2) While it is true that ESPN and CNN did pieces on the ac­cident and Haley Scott's recov­ery, it is also true that ABC News wanted to do a piece and was turned down because the parties involved didn't want to do it. And ABC was not alone in being turned down. 
3) There was a strict morato­rium on access to the swim­mers in the week leading up to the anniversary. ln fact, the ESPN piece was done over Christmas break even though it aired on the anniversary. 
4) Several television stations, notably from Chicago, were turned down when requesting access to the anniversary memorial service. Local sta­tions were granted access, a logical request since Megan Beeler was from South Bend. 
It should also be pointed out that the gist of the stories which emanated from the an­niversary of the accident fo­cused on the remarkable re­covery of Haley Scott. The media obviously thought that her recovery, against heavy odds, would make an inspiring story -and indeed it did. 
In a world desperate for role models, Haley Scott can be one for people facing adversity and I respect her decision to sit be­fore the cameras to tell her story. And I further respect her decision to not sit before the cameras, a right she exercised when she felt enough had been said. 
There's another fact to con­sider and that is that Notre Dame alumni are worldwide and when something happens to a member of the family, they all grieve. The media coverage afforded the accident was never intended to be exploita­tive and provided Notre Dame alumni, family and friends across the nation a reminder of the fragility of life and the in­dominitability of the human spirit as evidenced by Haley's recovery. 
I remember vividly traveling to Boston on business and call­ing campus from the airport to inquire as to Haley's condition; I also remember an emotional meeting with alumni from Notre Dame and other schools, all of us praying for Haley, Megan, and Colleen. These people did not have a "tragedy deficit." They showed genuine concern. 
The final assertion that the media "invaded the lives of the swimmers" and did to their lives "what (the media) want(ed)" is questionable at best given the facts of the situation. It is a sad truth that there are journalists who prey on people and their tragedies (check the television listings for Geraldo, Maury Povich, et. al), but the coverage of the accident did not include Rivera-esque tactics. 
That's why Monday's Inside column is so unfortunate. It consisted of (so far as can be seen ) unresearched assertion piled upon unresearched assertion. 
To the Haley and the swim team, I wish you the very best and thank you for all that you do for Notre Dame. 
Peter Pranica 
Class of '86 
Feb.9,1993 

The Garden 
I had a dream last night That you and 1talked through the night Of days when we were made of clay Sent forth by God to lead the way. 
We stood in the Garden of the Nile Remembering truth without denial Looking in each other's eyes And praising God for common ties. 
It didl\'t matter how you looked What you wore or if you cooked All I saw was what was there God's true self without compare. 
Remember when we held on tight To promises oflove and life. We were one then, in innocence sighed And vowed to die at sad goodbyes. 
So on this day I need to say From woman to man-God paved the way. These memories of mine shall never permit My heart to forget what I feel in your midst. 
So on this day, so much to say I love you and cherish your compassionate way. I know who you are for I am the same In a love that is pure, I expect no refrain. 
Just bask in the warmth of my need to express That I don't say enough of your tenderness As a man who I see as a god in his own I shall never forget and I welcome you home. 
Dedicated to all of my African-American Brothers For this Valentine's Day With Love. Your sister, 
chandra Fisher Graduate Residence 

The Great Philosopher 
I know a great philosopher who asks how one learns ­some be lessons, others only by experience, and some not at all. 
"I love you because you're my father, But I hate you because you loved 
a white bag more than you loved me," his daughter cries. 
His wife, tired and aged from his passionate affair with cocaine 
His wisdom is from the house he's lost the jobs he;s lost, the four-and·a·half of the last 
eight years in jail 
And so I wonder Will this wise man ever learn? 
Danielle De Bow Knott Hall 

Thursday's Verse 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556 


page 10 Thursday, February 11 , 1993 
t's not ·ust or i s 
Student-produced 'Wired Comix' provides a combination of laughs, drama, and art 
By MEREDITH comic book. With three artists together "Truth and Conse­MCCULLOUGH each with different styles and quences... A Mid-Knight," a different focuses, it is really complex story that, according to 
Accent Writer 
three books in one. A cartoon Devine, deals with "women's is­
The days of POW! ZAP! BAM! story. A social commentary. A sues in a male dominated dark drama. society and the assertion of
are over. 
The cartoon is the brain-child female strength." 
The days of Wonder Twins 
of Hosler, perhaps best known "Comic books aren't just for
and red capes and Jughead 
for his strip "Spelunker" on the kids," said Rosemann. "A goodhave faded away. 
Today page of The Observer. comic book works on different
But the comic book lives The characters are the same, levels with themes and im­
on-albeit in a new and 
but with eight pages instead of agery." While a young readerimproved form-at Notre Dame. 
four panels, the plot thickens. may just see the storyline andWithin the next few weeks a 
"Rejection Man finally fills heavy action, "an older reader
new student-run publication 
Hank in on why Hank is always might be more perceptive and
will begin circulating the 
rejected," explained Hosler. He say 'Wow. I didn't think of it like
campuses of Notre Dame and 
fills him in "on Hank's place in that before' ... That's what weSaint Mary's. It's a publication the cosmic scheme on things." tried to do," he explained. 
filled with laughs, drama and Duenes, art design manager As a complete work, "Wired"art. 
and political cartoonist at The works on more than one level
The idea to create this new 
Observer, provides the editorial as well.
comic book developed almost by bent to the publication. While the four founders hopeaccident, according to student 
His segment focuses on Notre to offer entertainment to the
artists Jay Hosler, Steve 
Dame, providing "a satire on campuses and generate interestDuenes, and Dave Devine. 
people who are uptight on cam­to continue publishing the"It was just three cartoonists pus-which is most of them," he comic book, they have notsitting around talking," said Ob­
said. forgotten about giving back toserver cartoonist Devine. "We 
But what good is the community. 
wanted to publish ... (but) there a comic 
something back, to do some­book if it's all laughs and no
is no forum at Notre Dame for 

Paraphrasing Devine, Hosler thing for people." 
blood? Of the $1 they are chargingstudent art, cartoons, graphic spoke of the hospital, "These

The final segment is Devine's for a single issue, 50 cents willart or comics." 

kids are in life-dehabilitating The group plans to create fu­dark, grainy contribution. But go toward defraying the costs ofSo they decided to create that circumstances. When we were ture issues of "Wired" and arehe is not alone. For this piece, future issues, but the other 50forum themselves. 
their ages, we were reading looking for interested cartoon­Devine is joined by Observer cents will go the Riley's Chil­And "Wired Comix" was born. 
comic books and could escape. ists, artists, and writers,columnist Bill Rosemann. dren's Hospital in Indianapolis,"Wired" is not your traditional This is our chance to give according to Hosler.
Together, the two of them put IN. 

Mr. Head oners unique blend of lounge music with hardcore edge 
By MEGHAN KING British punk brought to his Accent Writer attention by a "strange" friend in his teen-age years. · 
"The last time I ever heard Mr. Head, despite their many the word freak used it was a influences, maintains their own term of endearment," said Joe sound. "We're not trying to Cannon. lead singer and sound any particular way, but it guitarist for Mr. Head, the just comes out," said Holsinger. alternative/grunge band that "We have bizarre music has be!m playing Notre Dame's tastes. Both of us have been underground eircuits for the working at VFI, like, forever," past two years. says Holsinger, referring to the 
"We had two freshmen who campus radio station where he 
told us we were freaks," said and Cannon host their own Cannon about himself and his shows and keep in close contact former roommate, fellow with the latest bands arriving bassist. Dave Holsinger. on the music scene. 
"If anothPr freak called me a Mr. Head played live on WVFl freak I wouldn't mind, but if a last November for Holando de Domer dork ralls me a freak I Aguiar's program that features get a little bit offend!!d," said origaal campus bands. Holsinger, a Notre Dame senior. Cannon calls Mr. Head's latest "I mean I dress normal. I just creative musical component have slightly longer hair and Bunge Rock. "It's lounge music, think like Lenin." but then I scream and it be­
The group, formerly known as comes hard core," says the Smear. seeks to unleash their vocalist. hidden reputation, celebrate "It's when we pull lounge jazz their freakishness, and attract a out of our butts," says larger and more diverse crowd Holsinger. at Dalloway's Coffeehouse at Besides Bunge Rock the group Saint Mary's this Saturday. incorporates an unusual 
Mr. Head, which includes amount of guitar riffs and drummer Shawn Hyan, a Notre interludes leftover from when
Cannon calls "Weather" an people that stood on your covers they're really obscure Dame graduate and local attor­"angsty, can't get the girl song. chest/Yeah, I've seen that and nobody knows them any­Cannon played mostly guitar. ney, is "much more aggressive It's kind of like, let's talk about happen,too/Get up and savor way," says Holsinger, such as "As it is now I have to split my than other campus bands," said nothing much at all, when the imprint/Make it your "Don't Fall" by The Chamelions brain," he says, referring to 
'· Holsinger. there's so much more to talk favorite tattoo." and "Mineral" by Buffalo Tone. singing and playing at the same 
"A lot of our stuff is dinosaur time.
about. There's also a play on Cannon calls the titles of "We have a lot of influences love story material. You know, the word 'whether' and many songs "twenty second that are embarrassing because 
'I'm the shy guy who can't get indecision," said the brain farts" that do not they are groups that are goofy Besides Dalloway's, Mr. Head the girl' type stuff," said intends to play a benefit for
singer/guitarist. necessarily relate to the music, and pretentious and 
Cannon. Another original, "Gnats," Democrat Socialists of America
such as "Black As A Primary overblown," said Holsinger. 
The song "Weather," to be (DSA) and hopes to set up some
deals with "somebody who's got Color," "Child Warfare," and featured on the campus CD, is a serious problem and I "Sniff Vigor." But Cannon prides himself on shows at local bars. Their an example: "Let me ask you couldn't do anything," said the The edge Mr. Head offers not denying his unusual musical tapes can be purchased for $3 
about the weather/Let me hear or for $1 and a blank cassette,
lead vocalist, "kind of like, I stems from the band's unique inclinations that started in high 
your response/Always the shy, can't do anything for you, musical influences such as school. "We don't deny our high and will be on sale at 
and I'm never on time/Always you've got to help yourself." Fugazi, Firehouse, Tones on school heritage," claims Dalloway's Coffeehouse this 
the shy, for you." Said Cannon, "The powerful Tail, and Killing Joke. "If we do Cannon, who listened to a lot of Saturday. · 


-------~---~­
Thursday, February 11 , 1993 
The Observer page 11 
Home court lifts Arkansas past Kentucky 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) -Kentucky coach Rick Pitino Six Arkansas players scored in said Barnhill Arena was a great double figures, but Nolan place to play, but that the crowd Richardson said his list of wasn't a factor. heroes started with some other "Barnhill is not better than folks. Rupp," he said, referring to 
"The fans won this one for Kentucky's home court. "It's us," Richardson said Wednes-different. It's more organized. day night after the 14th-ranked It's like pressure has been built Razorbacks held off No. 2 Ken-up for six months and was tucky 101-94. ready to explode." 
''I've been in a lot of places On the court, freshman Corliss and I've said this before, our Williamson and senior Robert fans are the greatest in Amer-Shepherd had the answer each ica, not just the SEC, but time Kentucky got close in the America," he said. "I saw a sign final 2 minutes. telling the old people to stand The Razorbacks led by 15 with up. Heck, I don't think they ever 9 minutes to play, but Kentucky sat down. We have the kind of closed within 4 points on five team that if we get an extra occasions in the last 120 push from the fans, it makes a seconds. big difference." When it was 89-85, Williamson, who scored a ca-reer-high 22 points, broke downcourt for a stuff. At 91-87, Williamson's pass to Shepherd beat Kentucky's press for a basket. At 93-89, Shepherd, who has not missed a free throw in 23 Southeastern Con­ference attempts this year, made two more. At 96-92, Williamson made two free throws. At 98-94, Clint Me-Daniel made one. 
Richardson praised Shepherd and Williamson and pointed out that Scotty Thurman carried Arkansas early with 14 of his 16 points in the first half. 
"It was your-turn, my-turn basketball for us, a different guy at different times," he said. "Clint McDaniel may have been the key. Before the game we knew we needed to neutralize Travis Ford and attack the bas­ket. Clint attacked the basket." 
McDaniel, Shepherd and Dwight Stewart played a big role in a 17-4 run that gave Arkansas (16-4, 7-3 SEC) a 73­58 lead. Kentucky (17 -2, 8-2) rallied by pressing the Razor­backs into mistakes. 
"They just kind of caught us off guard with the press late in the game but we adjusted,' Shepherd said. 
Arkansas played without point guard Corey Beck, who was suspended by Richardson after Beck was arrested on a driving while intoxicated charge over the weekend. 


Travis Ford and Kentucky dropped a 101-94 decision to Arkansas Wednesday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­Make money teaching basic conversational English abroad.  3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM  *&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&** I need 2 tickets for the NO-Kentucky  Housing Contracts Due Soon! Still Time to MOVE OFF and become truly independant!  ***AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH  
Japan and Taiwan. Many provide  232-3616  Basketball game.  KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249,  
TYPING 287-4082  room & board + other benefits!  DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149,  
Make $2,000-$4,000+ per month.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Please call Cameron at 634­ CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459,  
TYPING 256-6657  No previous training or teaching  219-291-7153.  1723 ......  JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386.  
certificate required. For employment  Would you like to win a VCR,  
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's  program call:  FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT  dinner, or your tux and hotel room  
in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­ (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584.  NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND  &*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&  tor SENIOR FORMAL?  Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on  
2342 ND Ave & Howard  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277­ Raffle @ Senior Bar. 2/11 . Tix are  Luxury Yachts Seven day Island  
3097  NEED TKTS -KENTUCKY  $1 or 6 for $5.  Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin  
Mothers helper needed part time  800-777-0675 EXT 275  & Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6.  
50,000,000  days and evenings. Perfect for  1 /800-999-SAIL(7245)  
summer job also. Must be friendly,  2Br. Apts. Newly Remodeled  
with experience and own car. 232·  Walking distance to ND  I NEED 5 BASKETBALL TICKETS  
SPRING BREAK '93 BLOWOUT  2201  $300/mth. Call 232-8256  FOR THE MARQUETTE GAME!!!!!!  Hey Jerky- 
SALE\  Please call Chris or Mike x1117  THIS FEBRUARY 14th ...  Happy Birthday, Dan H.  
Lowest prices, best trips -1 00%  Surprise Her with a Rose and a  I didn't forget, I couldn't.  
guaranteed! Cancun, Jamaica, &  EX-ND STAFFER & SPOUSE  ND Apts. Completely Remodeled  Song delivered by a Glee Club  your mama jama -A  
Florida packages still available from  DESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED  walking distance to ND  Joel, get ott the babysitter.  Quartet ...  
America's student travel leader.  APARTMENT FOR SUMMER.  Call for info. 232-8256  I say this to you because it'll be  Surprise Her anywhere in the U.S.  
Travel free · organize a small  NON-SMOKERS. REFERENCES.  Risky Business if you don't sell Skip  with a Love song delivered by  LOVE STINKS!!  
group. Call STS@ (800) 648-4849.  WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW,  tix tor the Kentucky  phone ...  It's time for the 2nd annual:  
MULBERRY FL 33860 or PHONE  4 BDRMS AVAILABLE FOR  WildCATASTROPHE on Feb. 13.  VALENTINE'S DAY REQUEST  
SNAP-A-SCAM  (813)425-4404  SUMMER SCHOOL.  It's in your best interest (broken  THE NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB  LIST FROM HELL!!  
GRAD. STUDENTS, VISITING  arms) to call Skip at  SINGING VALENTINES  (and we need your help)  
s For only $2 our s  PROFS., PREFERRED. CALL  x2052 and make a deal or leave a  We are looking for''"· best anti-love  
N Pangborn photo-N  MONICA 232-2794.  message.  On-campus delivery to ND/SMC .  songs around. Exa tes:  
A graphers will get you a A  I Need A Aide  .$5  "Love Stinks" -J. G, , Band  
p polaroid snapshot of p your favorite babe  FOR SALE  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Phone delivery to Anywhere, U.S.A. ...$3  "U Stink but I Luv You" -Billy and the Boingers  
A (autographed even)! A  To Indianapolis  WE NEED KENTUCKY TIX  "I Don't Believe in Love"­ 
SEPARATE STEREO  CALL 289-5563  On sale in the North and South  Queensryche  
s On sale in the dining s  COMPONENTS: AMP .. TUNER,  Dining Halls on Thursday, Friday  "I Don't Care Anymore" · Phil  
c halls Mon-Fri til Feb 12 c  on Friday,  TAPE DECK AND EQUILIZER(good  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  and Saturday  Collins  
A Photos delivered on A  condition)  We're not looking for songs that say  
M Valentine's Day! M  $150.00 CALL271 1443  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SERENADE YOUR  "my heart is broken because I love  
Call Vince  SWEETHEART!  someone," but songs that say '1his  
SNAP-A-SCAM  TICKETS ]  WE NEED KENTUCKY TIX CALL 289-5563  whole love thing ne.,Js to be seriously rethought."  
272-8503  $100 FOR A STUDENT DRIVING  RESULTS WILL BE PUBLISHED IN  
ECON TUTOR  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  TO FLORIDA IN NEXT 60 DAYS.  THE FEB. 12 OBSERVER  
Principles/In!  Help make a difference-tutor  I  WOULD REQUIRE PICKING UP A  VALENTINES!!!  
Manageriai/BCA  adults trying to get their GEDs, 1  NEED  XEROX COPIER AND  So we need them by 2 p.m.  
Call Tony Sindone  morning a week, 9:30-11 :30 call  2 KENTUCKY GA'S  DELIVERING IT TO SARASOTA,  Thursday. Call Joe or Paul at 1203.  
1-325-8918 ILOST & FOUND I  Erich at 289-1882 Help make a difference-tutor adults trying to get their GEDs, 1  CALL JEANNE X2645  I NEED ONE KENTUCKY GA CALL MATT AT x1741 I need one, only one ticket for  FLORIDA. CALL 264-9508 AND ASK FOR JULIE. ADOPTION: Were you  And, as always, HAPPY HEARTBREAKING!!!  
morning a week, 9:30-11 :30 call  the Kentucky game.  overwhelmed when you found out  
LOST-We switched long navy  Erich at 289-1882  Please give me a call at  you were pregnant? We were  
Forecaster coats@ Tri-Mil. I have  Need Kentucky Tix  42036  overwhelmed when we found out  Buy your tixs for the RAFFLE  
your camera in pocket. Call Jen  Swimming pool and spa company  2 G.A. and/or 2 Stud.  and ask for Michael.  we couldn't have children. We're a  @SENIOR BAR on Thurs, 2/11.  
284-5150  has opening tor retail sales person  Call Ryan X3596  Catholic nurse/doctor couple  
for Summer season.  happily married for 9 years. If you  
Lost-Canvas, brightly striped bag  Underclassmen have opportunity tor  want your baby to grow up with  
from Jamison Inn after Tri-Mil. Call Jen 284-5150  multiple Summers work. Competitive pay, flexible hours and  MY BEST FRIEND FROM  PERSONAL  patient, loving parents, a large extended family, & two very sweet  ***SENIORS*** BUY YOUR SENIOR FORMAL  
training provided. Send letter or  MARQUETTE IS COMING FOR  dogs, please call Mary and Michael  RAFFLE TICKETS FOR THE  
You found my sportcoat. Please  resume to 1919 South Michigan St.,  THE GAME AND I DESPERATELY  1-800-759-6039.  DRAWING THURS. @ SENIOR  
call back: 288-3839 or  South Bend, IN  NEED TICKETS!!! HELP ME!!!  THE DEADLINE FOR  BAR!! $1/each or $5/six  
1-7226 (days).  46613  CALL LAURA X4-2999  VALENTINE'S CLASSIFIEDS IS  SOUTH PADRE -BEACHFRONT  ***SENIORS***  
TODAY AT 3 PM.  Radisson Resort Wet suit contests,  
Found: jacket at Corby's the first  WANTED: 6-9 yr old boy for stdnt  SEE YOU IN THE OBSERVER  parties, sleeps 6-8 & Marco Island,  
week of school. Call 271-7288 and  film CALL Andy x4302 or Liz x2441  I need 3 Kentucky tickets!!!  OFFICE!  FL House -near Keys $750 week  
ask for Mary to identify.  Please let me buy yours!  813-642-5483  Senior Formal Raffle!  
Need ride to NJ, PA, DE, NY for  call Moira 4-3885  prizes include:  
Lost: A navy blue Wimbeldon  spring break Eric x1200  SMC & ND Summer Programs­ WANTED:  • 4 rooms @ the Marriot  
blazer at the Lyons formal Saturday night at Union Station. Please call Tim at 1422.  FOR RENT I  NEED KENTUCKY TICKETS MARY X2862  London & Rome-Meeting Feb. 15,6:30 Carroll Hall (SMC). Student, faculty, etc. Free pizza. For info call  MALES WHO POSSESS THE FOLLOWING: EXCEPTIONAL (YET SOUND)  • 5 tuxedo rentals • Dinners in Chicago • T-shirts  
Need 1 or 2 GA!Stud  Prot. A.A. Black 284-4460(ottice}.  MIND, SENSITIVITY IN  
WANTED  3-5 person furnished house, Sec. System, wash/dry, beach V-ball,  Kentucky Tix. 2711514 or 1-8575  272-3726(home).  MODERATION, SINCERITY, RESPECT FOR WOMEN (NO  
PRIME location, 233-9947.  BEER/BABE POSTERS), DESIRE  White Sox Fan? Win 2 tickets to  
Adoption-Active, Young couple  @$@$@$@$@$@$@  TO DO ONE'S OWN LAUNDRY,  any game incl. free dinner in VIP  
wants to adopt your bundle of joy.  I NEED UKTIX  HEALTHY LIBIDO.  room! **Senior Formal Rattle**  
Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call  If you are going to Daytona  RESPOND TO: 284-4148 AND 284­ 
·Peggy 1-800-682-8628.  5 Br. house Newly Remodeled  MATT X 1374  or,the East Coast of Florida  5525.  
Near Lafayette Square.  on March 4th or before ...... ..  SR. FORMAL TIX AVAILABLE  
ALASKA SUMMER  Call 232-8256  Desperately seeking up to 4  2 dorky,thin,loser,nerds looking tor 2  @ Sr. Bar Thurs. Feb 11th  
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  GAs for the Marquette game.  PLEASE PLEASE!!!!! CALL  cool dates for SYR this Sat. want to  9:30-12am Drawing begins@  
$600+/week in canneries or  Please call Beth at x2914.  LAURIE AT x2729  learn to have fun. we're serious! call  midnight!!  
$4000+/month on fishing boats.  IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY-1  I WILL PAY$$$$$$$$  Einstein and Erkel X15471eave  
Free transportation! Room & Board!  BDAM, USE OF ALL UTILITIES,  I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for  @$@$@$@$@$@$@  message, we're studying  
Over 8000 openings. No experience  GOAL-ORIENTED FEMALE  Kentucky -Brian x1 069  Well Mr. Becton­ 
necessary. Male or Female. For  PREFERRED. CLEAN, SAFE  ***SPRING BREAK***  HEY MOL­ Don't think just because it's your  
employment program call 1-206­ NEIGHBORHOOD. $225/MO. CALL  I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR  7 nights Beachfront in  LET'S GET HOOD I ED!  birthday you're safe ...  
545-4155 ext. A5584  MONICA 232-2794.  KENTUCKY GAME!  Panama City Beach, FL.  -MURR  Quite the contrary, you're never  
CALL MEG -X3884  Discount ID card included  safe. So we just have one question  
Driving South tor Spring Break?  Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom  Prices start at $109. Hotels  LEE is 4 ME at ND in '93!  to ask you on your 20th birthday- 
I need ride to Dallas, TX. Leaving  House now for 93-94 school  filling up so don't delay.  Happy 20th Birthday  Is it going to be a good year,  
Fri. 3/5. Will help w/ gas.  year 234-1886  Need Duke & Kentucky tickets.  Call James @289-2683  LEE BECTON!!  or a great year?  
Call Lynn 284-5473.  Will pay$$$. Call (708)835-2208  ***SPRING BREAK***  Luv ya! L & S  J  

,..r----pa_g_e_1_2-------------------------T-h-e--ob-se_rv_e_r_______-~ -~---------~-T-h-u-rs_d_a_y_,F-e-b-ru-a-ry-11-.-1-993 
' 
Boston College falls Irish men's volleyball overcomes victim to the Hurricanes mistakes to defeat Tri-State 
MIAMI (API -In an ironic twist, it was free throws that al­lowed Miami to beat No. 21 Boston College 75-71 Wednes­day night. 
Miami, the Big East's worst free-throw shooting team, made 19 of 26 in a foul-plagued second half. 
Boston College, the conference leaders in free-throw per­centage, had Howard Eisley, its hottest shooter, on the line with the game in the balance. 
Miami led 73-70, but commit­ted a foolish foul when Michael Gardner hacked Eisley while attempting a 3-point shot with 
5. 7 seconds left. Eisley had started the game with 24 con­secutive free throws. 
lie made the first for his 25th straight, but eame back after a Miami timeout and missed the next two. Miami's Trevor Bur­ton was fouled after he grabbed the last rebound and made both free throws for the final margin. 
"I thought we were going to overtime with Howard on the line," Boston College coach Jim O'Brien said. "lie's a reliable kid, a good free-throw shooter and he's got a lot of courage." 
O'Brien didn't believe the timeout affected Eisley's con­centration. 
"It wasn't a matter of a choke situation," O'Brien said. "He just missed them. If the same situation comes up on the road against St. John's Saturday, I like our chances again with Howard." 
Boston College (13-6, 7 -4) had won four straight games, all in the conference, and needed a victory over Miami (8-11, 5-6) to draw even with St. John's for first place in the Big East. 
Miami's victory gives it a three-game winning streak for the first time this season and marks the first time it has won two straight games against conference opponents since joining the Big East last year. Miami defeated Syracuse 81-74 last Saturday. 
"I thought Steve Edwards and Trevor Burton's free throws (both were 7 of 8) were very important," Miami coach Leonard Hamilton said. 

Inexperienced Tri-State squad helps the Irish cause 
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 
The Irish men's volleyball team defeated the Tri-State Momentum last night in a per­formance that was sometimes spectacular, sometimes shoddy, but still good enough for the win. 
The Irish won in 5 games (13· 15, 15-9, 15-10, 13-15, 17-15) over a young Tri-State squad that gave the team all they could handle, but the Irish mistakes nearly killed them instead. 
In Game 1, the Irish, lead by Ryan Martin, Brian Ceponis and Pat Madden, bolted to a 13-7 lead. They would not score again in that game, making several mistakes en route to a 15-13loss. 
In games 2 and 3, the Irish were helped more by the ineptness of Tri-State's young squad than by their own prowess, according to coach Jen Slosar. 
"I'd like to say that we did it all ourselves, but they ( Tri­State ) had a tough couple of games," Slosar said. "It's nice to get help like that when you can." 

Game 4 was straight from the archives of volleyball bizarre, featuring 17 straight serves in which neither team scored. After this drought, Tri-State jumped to a 9-3 lead, and although the Irish drew within three, they c;ould not close the gap. Fatigue and lack of con­centration appeared to affect the Irish starters, who had been on the floor nearly the entire match to that point. 
"We lost our focus a little bit there," said Slosar. "That's something we work on. Some­times we get to 13 and act like the game is over. That hurts us." 
In Game 5, played under the rally score format, Ceponis and Matt Strottman lead the Irish to a 7-3 lead, but Tri-State fought back to within one point of a victory at 14-12. 
After a time out, Brian Cepo­nis spiked a Tri-State mistake, and another mistake tied the game at 14. Tom Kovats would later give the Irish a 16-15 lead with a rocket spike, and the Irish took the game, 17-15, and the match, making them 7-0 in 5th games this season. 
"That's something we're re­ally proud of," said Pat Madden. "Last year, we only won once in rally score, but we've turned that around pretty well this year." 
The Irish passing, lead by unsung hero Won Sub, was another bright spot in the match. 
"Won runs a nice offense," Slosar said. "I'm quite pleased with the way our passing has come around." 
Asked if the Irish had some aversion to the unlucky score of 13, Slosar could only shake her head and smile. 
"We've been working on our concentration," Slosar restated. "We'll get the 13 thing down soon enough." 
The Irish travel to. the Uni­versity of Kentucky for a tour­nament this Saturday. They have two ninth place tourney finishes to their credit this sea­son, at Michigan and Michigan State. Their next home match is on February 15 against Loyola­Chicago at 7:30 in the auxiliary gym at the J.A.C.C. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY..• 

•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Pray Always clock and the time was 12:34 pm. I laughed. What a great poker hand this is, I said! What a cute time! What a lover's joke! The the next day, I came into the room, and the clock said "2:22," or "3:33," I can't remember which it was,
When I was a senior at Notre Dame, a favorite theology professor invited us all but I laughed. Is this to be a theme? Eventually, I saw "4:56" and "11: 11" andto try and say the "Jesus prayer." This prayer , "Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the "3:21."

Living God, have mercy on me a sinner" , was recommended in a book we had all read together for that prof's course, a book called The Way of the Pilgrim. 

Some days later, I was nervous about a sermon I had agreed to give. I didn'tIn the hook, a wandering Russian holy man tries to answer the challenge of St. 
sleep well the whole night before; all night I tossed and turned. And yet,Paul to us all to "pray always." To that end, the holy man commits himself to every time I looked over and saw the fancy new ordination clock, it read 2:34,say the above quoted prayer, over and over again, ceaselessly if possible, until at or 3:33, or 5:55 , great numbers, laughable numbers. Eventually, that night Isome point in his otherwise meager life, the prayer is taken inside of himself, figured that if God wasn't sending a lover's secret message, I had no hope.
and somehow it begins to say itself, in a way nearly as automatic as breathing. 
And, surprise, surprise, the talk went fine. I was cautious about accepting this challenge, though I loved the professor, 

I recently told these stories to a Notre Dame Encounter Weekend. I told ourbecause I had previously read J.D.Salinger's Franny and Zooey, a book where students that God likely looks for ways to be a playful lover with everyone Godthe main character tries to follow this path of prayer and pretty much goes loves.
insane. 

Nothing has made me happier than one day when I was walking across theNevertheless, I began. Walking down the street, sitting in the car at a God Quad in front of Walsh Hall and some guy hollered from far away, "Hey,stoplight, waiting for a friend at a rendezvous, whenever I had time on my Father, it's 1:11." He and I both reveled in the fact that God is our Lover.
hands, I tried to say this prayer. I tried to say it fast. I tried to say it slow. I said it. 

The Jesus Prayer leads us to understand. The digital clock phenomenon may take us there as well.
One day, some time later, I was in one of those situations where you are driving a car into a busy intersection, and some jerk blasts through the crowd, ignores God loves God's people. Let us live in that kind of conviction. 

all the lights, and nearly kills everyone. In a few crucial seconds, I luckily It makes us free.
avoided the crash , and suddenly there in my soul, or my heart, or somewhere, I clearly heard the words , "Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the Living God, have mercy on me a sinner," and I began to laugh. rwasn't just lucky. I knew I had Tom McDermott, C.S.C. been saved. I knew that God had pretty much everything to do with my salvation, and I figured that loving that crazy prayer had helped me to catch on to this particular act of grace. 

WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
I became addicted.  
Sat. February 13  5:00p.m.  Rev. Regis Duffy, O.F.M.  
Though I was young, I began to proclaim to anyone who would listen that the  Sun. February 14  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Regis Duffy, O.F.M.  
secret to life is to believe in God "all the time."  11:45 a.m.  Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C.  
I looked for new ways to remember this apparent truth.  
On the way to class, there was a tree I passed every day.  I began to stop and  
stare at it.  People wondered what 1 was doing. Every day 1 stared at that tree,  SCRIPTURE READINGS FoR  
and said to myself "nothing has happened since yesterday; me, I am still here, and the tree is still here ,only time has moved along." A newly favorite  THIS COMING SUNDAY  
professor talked to us all about "time and eternity," and I felt that that  1ST READING  Sirach 15, 15.-20  
particular tree was helping me to understand.  2ND READING  1 Corinthians 2, 6.-10  
Eventually, all trees became holy.  GosPEL  Matthew 5, 17...3 7  
Somebody gave me a digital alarm clock as a gift for my ordination.  
No big deal.  Yet, the first day I walked back into my room, I glanced at the  

Thursday, February 11, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Bulls win fight with Pacers, Heat rolls past Wolves 
INDIANAPOLiS (API Michael Jordan, involved in a first-quarter fight that saw Heggie Miller ejected, scored a game-high 40 points as Chicago ended a nine-game road trip with a 115-104 win over Indiana Wednesday night. 
The win was the Bulls' fifth straight and left them 6-3 on the road trip, their longest in 18 years. They have won six straight against the Pacers, including four this year. 
The Pacers lost Miller with 
4:29 in the first quarter when he was ejected after starting a fight with Jordan. 
Miller had tipped in a missed shot by Pooh Richardson on a fast break, giving the Pacers a 22-14 lead. When he turned after the basket, he bumped Jordan with his forearm and continued to run up the floor. 
Jordan caught up with Miller, and the two players began to grapple, with Jordan head­butting Miller and both players throwing punches. 
Both benches emptied before order was restored. 
Miller was assessed a personal foul for elbowing and a technical foul for throwing a punch. Jordan did not receive a foul, and when the announcement was made, Pacers coach Bob Hill shattered his clipboard by flinging it to the floor. 
Hill subsequently got a technical and was ejected also. 
Replays showed that on the possession prior to the fight, Jordan caught Miller with a hard forearm across the neck. 
The fight temporarily fired up the Pacers, who opened up leads as big as 12 points. But the Bulls closed to within two points by halftime and it stayed close until there was less than six minutes to play. 
Rik Smits, who led the Pacers with 24 points, gave Indiana its last lead on a 17-footer with 
5:54 to play, 98-97. But Jordan, Scottie Pippen and 
B.J. Armstrong each scored four points in a 12-1 run as the Bulls opened up a 10-point lead, 109-99 with 3:10 left. The Pacers never got closer than eight again. 
Miami 101, Minnesota 90 
MINNEAPOLIS -Grant Long had 21 points, 13 rebounds and seven assists Wednesday night to help Miami overcome an NBA-record tying performance by Chuck Person in the Heat's 101-90 victory over Minnesota. 
Person tied his own record for 3-point proficiency by maldng 6 of 6 attempts. Person set the record in 1987 while with Indiana, and it later was matched by Danny Ainge (in 1988 with Boston). Charles Barkley (1989 with Philadelphia) and Mark Price (1989 with Cleveland). 
It was the second road win in as many nights for the Heat, who won Tuesday at Detroit, 106-105. The Heat won both games without starting center Rony Seikaly, who is out with the flu. 
John Salley had 14 points and eight rebounds as Seikaly's replacement. He had a season­high 23 points on Tuesday. 


ND-SMC 
Students 

20th Annual Summer Program 
LONDON 

May 19 ~June 18 !Travel in Ireland, Scotland, and France 
ROME 
June 13 ~July 12 Travel in France, Germany, and Switzerland 

Courses offered in BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 
MEETING February 15 

6:30 p.m. Carroll Hall, SMC • Free pizza Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284A460 or 272-3726 
Michael Jordan drives past Indiana's Reggie Williams. Wednesday's 115-1 04 Bulls win. 
Glen Rice added 18 points and nine rebounds for Miami, which never trailed. The Wolves (10-Houston 98, 
33) lost their second in a row. Philadelphia 90 
Miami's Bimbo Coles came off PHILADELPHIA -Hakeem the bench to score 17 points, 11 Olajuwon had 25 points, 20 in the second half, as Miami rebounds, six blocked shots and rode a 35-15 edge in bench seven assists Wednesday night scoring. Coles finished 6 of 6 as the Houston Rockets beat the from the field and 4 of 5 at the Philadelphia 76ers 98-90. line and made a key steal with It was just the second win for 
1:03 remaining and Minnesota the Rockets in their last 26 vis­trailing 94-89. its to the Spectrum. 

Morrissey, Off-Campus to meet in final 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
The final two are set in the men's interhall basketball A League as Morrissey will face Off-Campus to decide the championship. 
Morrissey is coming off a thrilling double overtime, 55-52 victory over previously un­defeated St. Ed's, a game that could just as easily have gone both ways. 
St. Ed's started hot, as star shooting guard Tony Gentine lit up the scoreboard with four first-half three pointers. How­ever, Morrissey regained its composure, using a frantic trapping, pressing defense to force turnovers and spark an 11-0 run of its own. Instru­mental in this charge was point guard Steve Clear, creating a 
Don't be caught empty handed! Valentines Day is Sunday, February 14th 

Pre-Order by Friday, February 5th for lower prices 
at 

IRISH GARDENS 
All Delivery Orders Must Be In By Saturday 

Please make all orders in advance for fastest service 
Visa/MC accepted delivery to ND/SMC/off campus Balloons/Cards tool 
Open Sunday, February 14th 12:30-5:30 

The Rockets built a 16-point lead with 8:18 left in the fourth quarter and still led by 11 with 
1:58 remaining. The Sixers cut the deficit to five at 94-89 with 
1:00 left on a pair of 3-point shots by Hersey Hawkins, but the Rockets then scored four of the last five points. 
Houston's last win at Philadelphia was Dec. 12, 1990. Prior to that, Houston hadn't won here since 1974. 
number of steals and easy transition baskets. 
The advantage again went to Morrissey in overtime, as junior John Neal hit a driving layup and the ensuing free throw to put his team up six. However, Gentine again came though, hitting all three free throws after being fouled on a three­point attempt, pushing the game into the second overtime. 
Captain Chris Bartoli came out firing for St. Ed's, hitting a leaning layup in the lane and a fifteen foot jumper to give his team the lead. However, this period was owned by Morris­sey's big center, Brendan Tully. Tully hit a baseline jumper, tipped in a missed shot, and after teammate Matt Johnson's two free throws, added one of his own to create the lead. He also had a crucial blocked shot near the end, preventing the game from being tied again. 
When asked about the thing that sparked his team's victory, Morrissey coach Andy Curoe noted that, "We decided to back off the press and put in a smaller lineup, trying to shut down their shooters on the outside." 

In the other semifinal, 0-C rolled 50-31 over previously undefeated Fisher. OC held Fisher scoreless in the third quarter, turning a five point deficit into a double digit lead. The frontcourt of Eric Jones, Brian Ratigan, and Ray Griggs keyed this turnaround, pound­ing the ball inside and scoring on numerous second chance layups. 
Fisher had started well be­hind the shooting of Tim Frank and Garrett Hartman, but OC turned its defense up a notch and started to crash the boards with authority, putting the game out of reach as Fisher went cold from the floor. 
Despite the talent of the OC frontcourt, Morrissey's Curoe remained positive, saying, "Jones and Ratigan really work well together, but I think we'll match up well with Brian Cor­bett and Tully, and we'll try to switch around our defenses to create turnovers." 
College Students! 
A real estate career could propel you into a rewarding future! If you plan to live in the Michiana area after graduation, please join us! 
Tuesday, February, 16 Saint Mary's College Haggar College Center, Room 304 
Call Sheila Bardwell to register and receive your free Real Estate Career Kit 
271.. 4171 
Hosted by: Cressy and Everett/ Better Homes and Gardens 
.--------------------------~------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------..... 
page 14 The Observer 
Bowe, Lewis match unlikely 
NEW YORK (AP) -Don't hold your breath waiting for Lennox Lewis and Riddick Bowe to unify the heavyweight champi­onship. It's not going to happen for a while. 
Lawyers and representatives of the fighters met for two hours Tuesday night and pro­moter Dan Duva said all the talk boiled down to perhaps 20 minutes of substance. "No agreement was reached," he said. "None was close." 
What the meeting did produce was a price for the light of $32 million guaranteed. What it did not produce was any consensus for dividing that kitty. "Lennox Lewis would fight Riddick Bowe for free, if he loses," Duva said Wednesday, "if Riddick lights for free, if he loses." 
Also discussed was a more realistic $10 million offer. The problem with that one was the name of the proposed payee on the check. Rock Newman, Bowe's manager, offered $10 million to Main Events, Duva's promotion company, for a Lewis fight. After deductions, that would leave Lewis with a purse of between $4 and $5 million, 
Hockey 
continued from page 16 
for second, now find them­selves in a messy three-way tie with Fisher. 
Tom Miller and Carl Henry scored early to give Zahm the lead, but Sorin responded late in the first half to tie the score at two. Sorin scored again to take a 3-2 lead in the second according to Duva. 
Frank Maloney, who manages Lewis, said the $10 million figure is fine, provided Lewis gets all of it. 
That, then, is where the di­vided heavyweight champi­onship is now with the two camps separated literally and geographically. Lewis, the WBC champ, and Maloney were headed back to London Wednesday night. Bowe, the WBA and IBF champ, and Newman were flying to Los Angeles for an appearance on the television show Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. 
Newman said there was a possibility the two sides would meet again on Friday in New York. 
"If they're ready to do a win­ner-take-all, I'll bring our signing pen," Newman said. 
"Our position is this," Maloney said. "Lennox Lewis would like to fight Riddick Bowe because that's the fight all the fans want. He will not chase Riddick Bowe and he will not be used by Riddick Bowe. 
"We have two offers for Rid­dick Bowe. Lennox Lewis will accept $10 million guaranteed, 
half, one that stood up until Zahm 's Chris Radzik scored to tie the game with six minutes left. 
Fisher (2-1-1) stayed in the playoff race by shutting out Ca­vanaugh 10-0 on Sunday. Co­captain Matt Barents netted five goals and Adam Walsh scored a hat trick. Fisher now prepares to square off against Sorin in the regular-season finale this 
no strings attached, all belts on the line. Or Lennox will accept winner take all, all the money and all the -belts on the line in a $32 million fight. 
"Either scenario is acceptable at a date and time to be agreed on. If Rock Newman and Rid­dick Bowe are sincere, there should be no problem accepting either otTer." 
Originally, the winner take all deal was suggested as a $31-$1 million split, so that the loser doesn't leave with entirely empty pockets. Newman said he raised the ante to the full $32 million during the Tuesday night meeting. 
Milt Chwasky, Bowe's attorney, said "In my opinion, winner take all is not realistic." Duva said, "I agree." 
That would seem to take care of that idea. 
"The lawyers and promoters notwithstanding, the fighters want the fight," Chwasky said. "I don't know when, but eventually the fight will be made." 
For his part, Lewis began by saying, "We want to show we're very serious." 
Sunday, with the loser being eliminated from playoff con­tention. 
Alumni (3-0-1) is one League 2 contender that is not in jeop­ardy, after defeating St. Ed's 7-3 on Sunday to clinch a playoff spot. Senior Matt Cronin led Alumni with a hat trick, and Bill Cooney, Mark McGrath, John Foley, and captain Jim Kuser each had goals. 
Thursday, Febrary 11, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

lnterhall f oor hockey re erees are needed. Anyone interested should call the RecSports office at 631-6100. 
Follow the Irish hockey team to Michigan on February 27. Bus costs $25 and it leaves at 3 p.m. on the 27th. Reserve you seat now by seeing Phil Bennett in 149 Stepan Chemistry Hall before February 13. Calling all ND/SMC women who were high school athletic stars are needed. The Observer is looking for former female prep stars (All-State, Prep All-American, etc.) who are not playing varsity sports in college. If you fit this description, please call Jenny Marten at 631-4543 as soon as possible. ND/SMC women's lacrosse will have practice from 8-9 p.m. on February 14 in Loftus. Spring break trips to Steamboat, CO are still available for all interested. For more information, call Chris Boone of the NO Ski Club at 273-2958. Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold its weekly meeting tonight in the basement of Farley at 7 p.m.. All are welcome. Please call E.D. at 634-1276 with questions. 
First annual women's alumni basketball game will follow the NO/Kentucky game on Saturday. Free admission. Players from 1978-92 are participating. 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
TONIGHT 
Women's Basketball vs Xavier 7:30PM JACC Arena* 


*Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the 
1993-94 General Board 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The news editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The viewpoint editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists, and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The sports editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The accent editor manages a staff of editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, oversees the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the accent pages 
each day. PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The photo editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians, and must work closely with department editors is assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 

ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The advertising manager oversees ad representatives and clerks and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The ad design manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with the advertising department and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The production manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The systems manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER TYPESETTING DIRECTOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience, especially with QuarkXPress, Aldus Pagemaker and Aldus PrePrint. The OTS director manages all aspects of the typesetting business, including client relations and new business development. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
A1~y full-time undergraduate ~r graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submzt a three-page s~ate~ent of mtent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, Feb. 12, 1993 at 5 p.m. For questions about the applzcatwn process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 

~ 
•
Today 

Thursday, February 11 , 1993 page 15 

SPELUNKER 
ACCOFWIN!n Til TiltS 8E1lDN 
PI£ 6 RA PH I THeRe-Wt.'Rf
WJ l,illWf-IN VO n:;S FOR 
SB P. I DONT BUY IT No :':.IRR£E-'BO!). 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I USE.O Th 11~1£ '«RITING I RHL\7.@ T11A.I 11-\E ~')'SIE>Nt..I.~NIS 13UI t{OW PURPO'S~ 0\= WRitiNG 15
I 

1 £.!'{~()'{ Tl-\'t.\'1\ . TO \NrLf.,\E WEAK 1\)E/>.S, ClBSC\JRt POOR R'CA'SONING I f>..N\) INI-1.1\31\ CL~RI'N. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 General 55 Seed coat appearance 
56 Draft horses 

1 Humane org. for young humans 28 Supplements 58 Objective 
5 One of a deck 33 Pile up 59 In readiness 34 Single entity 
10 Gossip topic 60 Sponsorship 
35 Kindled

14 Not even 61 Grain beards 
36Wearymediocre 62 Ermine 37 Sledge15 Like some 63 Love to excesshammers

services 38Summon to 
16 Purple court DOWN17 Baked with a 
39 Psychic letters 

bread crumb 1 Roman
40 Gershwin fish? 

topping goddess of 41 Extreme
19 Organic hope compound 42 He escaped 
2Assumean 
incineration

20 Marine attitude big mouth 44 Held back 
3 Andean shrub 21 Unscrupulous 45 Dyad 
4Sidewayspeople 46 Injure 
5 Puerto Rican 

23 Kong's captive 47 Machinator 
dances 24 Research place 51 Pastoral poem 
&Dull 7 Elec. unit aRange players 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9lcelandic literature 10 Medicinal plant 11 A requisite of . pianos 12 E.P.A. concern 
~:....j.:.:~ 13 Brooks and Torme 
~~4=-l 18 Household 
~tJ···~ deities
22Giided -=+~~-+=-~ 25 Clotho et al. ~~+=:-l 26 Mennonite group ~~~ 27 E Europe's­Mountains 
JAY HOSLER 
I wA~ 1DL-D S'i AI so I UNLE;~& !Jt R.EC.ellk 
LEA~T 15 PEoPG 11-\AT 
AN PrPOI.-OiJI'f Posr-ftA~'>'R'
I C70I '11-tel R VoTF.1 
WE WIL( 13f' DEC0ARI~~
THOSe PeNCit-PV~ItiN,' Rt:SUM E-PA Dt>IN ·, PAIL'{ 
WAR ON S1\JDE:NT G,OV'T. Pl.-A NNER T7YfiN' PIN/t:f!Q5 A SM&'M C.PtMPI\IhN IN S1UDENT 6-.0V'r 
ON A '&:AU NeVET12­
PrR~ 11<'/IN' TO 
'5f:-6N B£FoR.£ ON ntiSS !l(; N (.€' ntt' 
CAMPVS. NO SG')(U/l'L
REBEL SP1!2.1f 
IN'OI~~6'TION WI~~ 81?'
OF ntf5 cAMPIIS 1 
TO qt'AI't-\IC IO -7:.,.....,.-...----.-, 'P R INT. 
ow, 
BILL WATTERSON 
'N\11-\ f... LITil£ PR.t>-C.TIC£.1 ·11-1~ D'tNA.M.IC.5 Of \N\t.RB£1NG WRITit-lG CAN ~'t AI\\ AN'iJ l'\0!:-IOLOGIC~L IM.t'tRP-.11\J't:.'S INTI~ID~\\~G Al-l\) : 11-\ DICK AND JAN~ : A 'S\\)0'{ IMPE.~'t.IRI>.BLE I=OG.' ~ It-\ Ps'tC\\IC. 1R.M-ISR£.V..TIOI'lf\L 
'f.lt..N\ T\> 'SEE. M't BooK I Gti'I.I:>£R ~ooES: ---~­
RE.rt>RT 'f> 
i>r--..-------1 
\ i 
!l 
28 Kind of drop  43 Has residence  50 Schism  
29 Just  44 Bureau-drawer  52 Like some  
30 Some atts.  enhancer  discotheques  
31 British measure 32 Place 34 Chagall or Blitzstein  46 Tourist attraction 47 Long tale 48 Boast  53 Module 54 Start of N.C.'s motto  
37 Extinct flightless bird  49 Homer's "Iliad," e.g.  57 Duran Duran album  
38 Raised an  

outcry 
Get answers to any three clues 
40 School formal 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 
41 Of some 
5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1231
purpose 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Well, kid, ya beat me-and now every punk packin' a paddle and tryin' to make a name for himself will come lookin' for you! ... Welcome to hell, kid." 
CAMPUS 
Thursday 

5 p.m. Reception for rare book exhibit: "Bookplates and Provenance: Part 11." Room 102. Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Special Collections Department, University Libraries. 
8 and 10:30 p.m. Film: "Say Anything." Cushing Au­ditorium. 
8:10 p.m. Play: "The Foreigner." Cavanaugh Hall Players. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Cavanaugh Hall. Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Information Desk for $3. 

LECTURES 
Thursday 

12:15 p.m. Brown Bag Seminar: "Humanitarian Action in the Ethiopian War: A Market Analysis," William DeMars, visiting fellow. Room C-103. Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
4:15p.m. Lecture: "Crime and Individual Rights: Reframing the Question of Violence in Latin America," Teresa Caldeira, Universidade Estadual de Campinas. Room C-103, Hesburgh Genter. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
HamburgersBaked Sole ..,.. Manicotti 
Saint Mary's 
Grill Bar Pasta Bar Carved Turkey 
-

• 
Sports 

.. 
.. 
-
page 16 

JASON KELLY 
Match Point 
Campanelli victim of disturbing trend in college basketball 
California men's basketball coach Lou Campanelli stood before a crowd of reporters Tuesday responding to his abrupt mid-season dismissal. He called it "unprecedented, unwarranted and unjust." 
He's right. 
In seven-plus season at Cal, he put together a 123-108 record, including a trip to the NCAA tournament in 1990, the school's first appearance in 30 years. 
And the future wasn't exactly looking bleak for the Bears. With the arrival of Jason Kidd, the nation's most coveted recruit a year ago, it appeared that Cal could emerge as national power and a serious contender in the Pac-10 con­ference. 
Sadly, the recruitment of Kidd may have been the beginning of Campam~lli's demise. 
There once was a time when big name recruits had to prove themselves at the collt~ge level. Lew Alcindor and Bill Walton had to answer to John Wooden. Patriek Ewing and Alonzo Mourning were under the watchful eye of John Thompson and Michael Jordan and James Worthy went to North Carolina in the shadow of Dean Smith. 
Add Bobby Knight and Mike Krzyzewski to the dwindling list of coaches who command respect from their players. Everyone else better keep their players happy or find other employment. 
That was Campanelli's biggest mistake. His players. particularly Kidd, reportedly didn't like his coaching taetics. They took their grievances to Cal athletic director Bob Bockrath, who made the final decision to fire Campanelli. but wouldn't say to what extent the players' opinions affected the situation. 
"I don't want to characterize if it was a big part or a small part," he said. "It was a part." 
Part of a disturbing trend in college basketball that began when Utah State and Army fired their coaches. 
The nmson'? Control. 
Players now control college basketball teams. With the exception of a few. coaches now have to tiptoe around in hopes of not alienating their star players. 
Knight is one who doesn't. His presence commands respect and his record gives him some breathing room when it comes to conduct with his play­ers. But most coaches don't have that kind of fn~edom anymore. 
Cal. expected to rally behind Kidd this season, is just 10-7 and 4-5 in the Pac-I 0. Thn blame falls squarely on the shouldt>rs of Campanelli, who turned the program around during his tenure, not Kidd, Cal's ticket to the Final Four that has thus far turned out to be counterfeit. 
A coach controlled by his players cannot build a winning program and a coach who tries to have too much control cannot build job security in to­day's player-dominated climate. 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.;.
• 
INSIDE SPORTS 
--.~M=-o_r_r,....is_s_e_y_,-=o,..---=c-w....,....in....,....in_s_e_m_i_s____, 
see page 13 
• Men's volleyball beats Tri-State 
see page 12 
•Arkansas beats Kentucky 
see page11 
Thursday, February 11 , 1993 

Irish must contend with Xavier's weapons 

The Observer/John Bingham/ 
Coquese Washington will have to handle Xavier's Carol Madson in tonights MCC game. 
Grace hockey has championship characteristics 
By TEDS PETERSON 
Sports Writer 
In all team sports, the championship 
squads are often marked by similar 
characteristics. A different player 
comes through in the clutch every night. 
Deficits are erased by intensity and 
solid veteran leadership. The defense 
stands tall in the face of an opponent's 
offensive surge. The breaks go their 
way. The Grace Hall hockey team, the 
only remaining undefeated and untied 
squad in interhall play, might just fit 
this "championship" label. 
Grace (5-0) displayed their ability to 
erase deficits last week, bouncing back 
from a 3-0 halftime deficit to knock off 
Keenan 5-3. With the win, 
Grace clinched a playoff berth and secured at least a share of the League 1 title. 
All five of Grace's goals came in the 
last eight minutes of the game, as 
their depth -18 skaters compared to 
only 9 for Keenan -finally wore down 
their opponents. Grace captain Karl 
Nass called goalie Tom Lischke "the 
player of the game," and teammates 
Kevin Baumert and Pat Casey each 
contributed two goals. 
The other Grace goal. though, was 
the crucial one. Rob Bolton scored to 
finally give them the lead at 4-3, but the 
goal was preceded by a 
controversial no-call of a debatable 
offsides by Grace. And the breaks 
continue to go their way. 
Grace's final regular-season opponent will be Flanner (2-3), who had another "mixed-bag week," defeating Morrissey 8-6 last week and losing 9-6 to Keenan (3-2) on Tuesday. 
Flanner was tied with Morrissey at the half, but played extremely well in the second period to come out on top. Freshman Mark Lorelli scored five goals, and Mark Rengel iced the game with an empty-netter in the final minute. Unfortunately, defenseman 
Mike Wilary sustained a season-ending
injury in the game. 
That injury would prove to be a critical factor in the Keenan game, leaving Flanner with only three healthy 
defensemen. Flanner led 3-2 going into the second half. but Keenan exploited a weary defense to win and push their 
record back up over .500. 
In League 2 play, Zahm {2-1-1) and Sorin (2-1-1 l tied 3-3 Sunday in a game that had huge playoff implications. The two teams, who had been tied 
see HOCKEY /page 14 By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw has every reason to worry going into tonight's Midwestern Collegiate Conference game with Xavier at the Joyce ACC. 
The Lady Musketeers boast the skills of forward Lynn Bihn, averaging 16.8 points per game, and guard Carol Madson, the second 
,. leading scorer in the MCC with a 19.8 average. Carol Madsen 
And if their usual output wasn't enough, the two have been on a tear lately. Bihn was MCC player of the week after scoring 51 points in wins over Youngstown State and Dayton. Madson hit the winning shot against Youngstown State and took over the conference lead in three point shooting. 
"Carol and Lynn are great players, and we have been working in practice to stop them," said McGraw. 
· The Irish may not be able to stop the duo, but they may be able to contain them as they did in a game January ninth at Xavier. Irish guard Coquese Washington held Madson to 17, and Lynn wasn't a major factor inside in Notre Dame's 64-56 win. 
"Last time C.oquese did a great job holding Madson under her average," said the Irish coach. "It was very defensivfl game, and I think that it will be that type of game again." 
Letitia Bowen led the Irish in the earlier win with 18 points and 14 rebounds. In recent games, the six-foot sophomore has been complemented by the inside game of junior Kristin Knapp, who scored 14 and 18 points in Notre Dame's past two games, both wins. 
The game is crucial for both teams. Xavier is 11-7 and 5-4 in the MCC while Notre Dame is 10-9 and 6-3 in conference play. Both teams enter the game on win streaks, with the Irish , winning their last two and the Lady Musketeers victorious in three consecutive games. 
"Every game is important for us this close to the end of the regular season," said McGraw. "Hut we are playing really well. The girls' attitude is great, and they are working hard." 


arter exp a1n their early exits 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Tom Carter (left) and Jerome Bettis discuss their futures in the NFL at Wednesday's St. Ed's Hall Forum. 
Injuries, money are main concerns 
By BRIAN KUBICKI 
Sports Writer 
Jerome Bettis and Tom Carter answered a variety of questions surrounding their decision to enter themselves in the NFL draft a year early at the St. Ed's Hall Forum last night. 
"I don't have a problem with my decision. If there's any questions, I'd like to answer them," Bettis explained of his acceptance to speak at the forum. 
Those questions ranged from whether or not the two were going to complete their degrees to which team they would like to play for in the NFL. The actual question of why the two made their decisions never actually came up, but each pointed to the possibility of injury as a main reason for his decision. "I'm involved in 95% of the plays, blocking, catching, or running the ball. Every single play, I'm getting hit or hitting someone," said Bettis. "I had to ask could I take another year of this stress." 
Carter agreed, adding, "Nothing is promised for tomorrow." 
The issue of money was not avoided, as both players acknowledged that it played a part in their decision. Both said that they were making plans to relocate their families into new houses and buy cars for their mothers. 
Bettis said that his decision did weigh on him during the season, but he did not let it affect his play. "You have to put yourself in the position so you can leave." 
"I was thinking the same things Jerome was, but all the attention was on him," said Carter. 
Bettis and Carter said that, while making their decisions, they talked to Rick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose, both of whom decided to remain at Notre Dame and finish out their final year o eligibility last season, and to Haghib Ismail who two years ago made the ded­sion to forgo his senior year at with the Irish and signed a contract with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League. 
"I can get input from other pt~ople. but the only person I have to blame (for the decision) is myself. I have to live with my dedsion," Carter said. 
Both juniors plan on finishing out their educations at Notre Dame. "If I wasn't going to complete my education, I wouldn't be here," said Bettis. 
The next step in the draft process for the two is the combines, which take place this weekend. Bettis expressed an interest in playing for the Washington Redskins, while Carter hoped for a warmer dimate than South Bend's. Both players said however that they would be happy with whatever teamed drafts them. 

When asked what they would miss most about Notre Dame, both answered without hesitation, "My teammates." Carter said that the team was behind their decisions 100%. Bettis summed up the emotions by calling his teammates, "the guys we lived with, slept with, and cried with." 







