--------------~------~------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------, 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students receive 
research money 
By JOHN LUCAS Associate News Editor 

When senior psychology major Kevin Fleming began a research project combining his loves of music and psychology, he did not count on getting money for it. 
' Thanks to a grant from the newly created Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program, Fleming and his partner, senior Julie Simmons, were surprised to receive $800 to pursue a pro­ject entitled "Memory for Music: Musicians vs. Non musicians." "The money was really a bonus," said Fleming, a drummer in Jazz Band. "It's really challenging work, but we're learning a lot." Sponsored by alumnus John Madden, chairman of the board of the 1st National Bank of LaGrange, Illinois, the scholarship program offers awards of up to $750 to winning individuals. The money can be used to fund individual projects as well as provide for expenses. This year, Fleming and Simmons, along with seven other students in the college of Arts and Letters, received the awards for projects in sever­al diverse fields. The awards are unique because they also rec­ognize faculty sponsors of the students for their The University wishes everyone a merry Christmas with a lighted display at the front entrance to the school. This is only one of work. Madden said. such displays around campus to create a festive atmosphere, especially before finals. "I think that after a while you forget some of the bad things and really remember your wonderful, special teachers," said Madden, a 1959 and 1962 Students find religious 'community' at ND

graduate in Economics. 'Td like to have everyone get that experience." Sponsored by psychology professor Gabriel By NANCY DUNN 
or women's ordination, Campus lives and want to share it with oth­
Radvansky, Fleming and Simmons project NewsWriter Ministry also helps supply back­ers,.. said Junior Dejka Steinert. explored the differences between musicians and--------------­
ground reading material. "At first they were a little worried 
those without musical training when recognizing Communities ND allows students a The scripture is part of it, but a lot that not so many guys would sign up," and remembering melodies. chance to meet with one another for time is spent discussing "what God's but Barrett said these fears were 
Seniors Brian Magee and ~ichael ~onnelly, who prayer, discussion, and reflection on done in our lives in general," accord­unfounded and most of the groups are were a~arded gr~nts for thetr .work m anthropol-scripture, according to Katharine ing to Sophomore Carrie Swetonic. split evenly. ogy, wtll use thetr _scholarsh•J? money to fly to Barrett, the director of Religious The groups offer a "closed setting to People complain about the lack of De~ver. to take part m th~ Amencan Anthropology Education for Campus Ministry. focus on what is going on in our opportunities available to meet mem­Soctety s annual conventwn. The groups consist of 8-10 under-lives," said Sophomore Jenny Szarek. bers of the opposite sex un campus, 
~hile in.Denver .. they w.~n displ~y the findin~s of graduates, generally from the same Meetings begin with a discussion of said Barrett. These groups providethetr proJect entttled, Chemtcal Analysts of class and equally divided according to what everyone is doing, and then another social opportunity to meet Ancient H~ma!l B?ne." . . sex. Students lead the groups, and move to a reading of the next people. People always comment on" 
Along wtt~ Jumor Juhe Sansom, and sponsor ideally, will stay together until the Sunday's gospel. Participants discuss what good friends they have made." Susan Shendan, professor of anthropology, the members graduate. Some people not only the gospel but how it pertains Some of the groups get together for group analyzed human ~one fragments fr~m drop out or go abroad, "but the core to their lives. People seem to get dinner. mass, or just to talk. "It is three separate groups. Whde ~agee worked w1th stays the same", said Junior Dejka more out of mass when they have neat because we did not know each a 15,000. year-old concent.ratwn of bones from Steinert, a leader of one group. studied the gospel in this way, accord­other in the beginning and now we Egypt, his partners exam_med fragments from Campus Ministry provides each stu­ing to Barrett. have really bonded," said Szarek. Sudan and a~other f~om ~tzo~a. . dent with a guidebook, which outlines "Our group clicked right away but it A couple of the groups have moved 
.The analysis provtd~s vital mformatwn on the a suggested format for meetings, a list is different for every group," added from purely discussing issues to doing ~1et of t~e groups whtch can be used to find. out of gospel readings for the semester, Swetonic, "what you put into it is service work in the community.mformatwn about food sources and occupatwns and the responsibilities of the host. If what you get out of it." Szarek's group did Christmas in April 
a group decides they would like to It is a "neat way to meet people who see SCHOLARSHIP 1 page4 discuss a certain topic like sexuality feel that their faith is central to their see COMMUNITY t page 4 
Book Fair will be held again 
By KATIE MURPHY for students. News Writer "We expect that many (books) or more this time," said Morrill. As the fall semester ends, Students who wish to sell 
students will once again be their books through the fair able to sell their books through must tape a piece of paper or a the Book Fair, a project spon­post-it note to the inside cover sored by Student Government. of each book with their name, The first Book Fair was held at the price at which they wish to the beginning of this year in sell the book, and the course ti­Stepan Center. tle and number. Students must 
According to Book Fair co­also fill out a general form list­chairman Peter Morrill, this ing all of the books they are second sale will be very similar selling. to the first one. On Thursday, Dec. 16, and 
"There is nothing signifi­
see BOOK FAIR I page 4 

cantly changed, although we 
are going to have more change 
this time so people don't have 
Today's issue of The 
to wait in line for hours," said 
Observer is the last issue of Morrill. 
the fall semester. The first 
At the first semester book 
issue of next semester will be 
sale, some students were de­
published on Wednesday. Jan. 
layed in their purchases be­
12. 1994. The Observer wish­
cause there was not enough 
es you and your family a very 
money to give change. The 
merry Christmas and a happy
Book Fair handled approxi­
Karl Uselman represents a typical student this week as he studies hard for upcoming finals. Notre Dame 
New Year. Executive Masters of Business Administration begin their finals today. 
mately 8500 books the first time, and brought in $40,000 


t I 



page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

r 
False hope in 
the season 
of misery 
"Frosty the Snowman was a fairy tale, they say." And they were right. There are real people who resemble hiin, but there never has been, and never will be, a walkin', talkin', singin' man (or woman) made of snow. Sorry. In fact, most Christmas carols' lyrics melt like Frosty in the greenhouse when we grab a magnify­ing glass and focus upon them the white hot light of reason. "On the first day of Christmas, my true love gave to me a partridge in a pear tree." Thanks, I'd love a Partridge. But only if it's the one played by Danny Bonaduce, and only if he'll hire me as his agent. He's worth big money these days, what with all those stories about drugs and women and stuff. Gimme the five gold rings, too. But bring the rest of that crap back to Sears. "Sleigh bells ring, are you listening?" No, I'm not. I've got my fingers in my ears. The only sound more annoying than sleigh bells shaking is the synth-pop intro to Journey's "Separate Ways (Worlds Apart)," though their greatest hits package was definitely one of the top ten albums of 1986. Of course, the best was "A Very Special Christmas." Remember "Christmas in Hollis" by Run­D.M.C.? That's a Holiday classic. "It's Christmastime in Hollis, Queens. Mom's cookin' chicken and collard greens." That's the Christmas spirit: real life. No subur­ban turkey and fine champagne for Jam Master Jay and Darryl McDaniel. _ But you'll continue to whine about nuts, I'm sure. "Chestnuts roasting on an open fire." They say that smell is the sense most closely associated with memory. And if my memory serves me right, that odor ain't chestnuts. It's ethanol. And it gets stronger towards Christmas, which is only fifteen days away. "It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas." But it's not. South Bend seems unseasonably warm right now. People are playing frisbee on the quad. The birds are singing and there's no snow to be seen. Sure, the forecast calls for some white flakes this weekend, but a dusting won't make Notre Dame a winter wonderland unless Johnny Mathis shows up to sing it him­self. "Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow." Why? Have you tried driving in this stuff? It's ·ust not safe. And as soon as it snows, Notre Dame students will go crazy and throw snow­balls at each other, as though they were having fun. We wouldn't want any of that during the Ch.ristmas season. "lt's'the most wonderful time of the year." 
It is? I suppose you've read an electric bill from December. I suppose you realize how many homeless people are cold on Christmas day. I suppose you know that more people kill them­selves during the weeks before and after Christmas than during any other weeks of the year. "We wish you a merry Christmas, we wish you a merry Christmas, we wish you a merry Christmas, and a happy New Year." Well, Christmas may not be merry. Winter is, after all, a time of cold and sadness. But stay hopeful for '94. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Production  
Theresa Aleman  Vivian Gembara  
Liz Foran  Bridgette Farrell  
Sports  Accent  
Jason Kelly  Bevin Kovalik  
Kenya Johnson  
Viewpoint  Graphics  
Allison Ebel  Brendan Regan  
Lab Tech  
Kyle Kusek  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Friday, December 10, 1993 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 

MANHASSET,N.Y.~------------------------------------------­Terror on the 5:33 The 5:33 p.m. train was en route from Penn Station in New York City to Hicksville, N.Y., when a gunman stood and began shooting passengers. 1 The train was filled to capacity. The gunman. Colin Ferguson, 35, was sitti in the rear ol the third car. A passenger later report~ that the gunman spilled bullets in his lap and calmly loaded his gun. He also had with him a small canvas bag with 100 more rounds of ammunition lor his 16-shot Ruger 9mm semiautomatic pistol. Without saying a word, he began shooting passengers to hi!i left. 2 He then walked backward down the aisle shooting passengers left and right. many in the head and neck, at mndom. He reloaded at least once. The shots spar1!ed a stampede. A wave of passengers flowed through the 12-car train in each direction, crushing anyone in the way. Reports that the train's engineer told conductors not to open the dool's when the train stopped at !he station, trapping commuters inside, are ~inwstigatsd. The gunman passed to the end of the car and stepped into the area between the 4 second and third cars. Then he returned to car No. 3 -perhaps, because he had left his ammo bag behind. Upon entering, three commuters jumped and subdued him. Jody Media ersuades teens not to have sex  
BALTIMORE Just say 'No' to sex. That seems a hopelessly outdated response to the increasingly sex-filled movies and music videos teen-agers see. But in Maryland, where the teen­age pregnancy rate ranked among the highest in the coun­try five years ago, a multimillion-dollar advertising cam­paign is focusing on abstinence and responsibility. Officials point to a small decline in the birth rate for 15-to 17 -year­olds in 1990, the most recent data available, as a measure of the program's success. However, it's impossible to attribute the decline to any one program, and the lack o more recent statistics makes it hard to gauge the cam­paign's effectiveness. The ads don't specifically mention contraception_ That wasn't an oversight but the result of a compromise between conservatives and liberals concerned about the increasing number of pregnant teen-agers. FDA claims female condom not a failure  
NEW YORK The lack of demand for the female condom, some re­searchers say, is due to the Food and Drug Administration's conclusion that the female condom has a 26 percent failure rate. That's considerably higher than other contraceptives. And, a leading critic says, it's wrong.  


When Carolyn McCarthy saw the Christmas tree still sitting in her driveway, she was annoyed, thinking her husband and son had postponed setting it up yet again. Moments later, she found out her husband of 27 years and her only child would never again celebrate Christmas together. Her brother came over Tuesday evening to tell her that her husband, Dennis, had been killed and her son, Kevin, shot in the head during a massacre on the commuter train they took home from New York City every night. Speaking· Thursday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, where Kevin was in critical condi­
· tion, McCarthy said she didn't have the energy to. dwell on the motivations of the gunman. Police say Colin Ferguson killed five and wounded 18 aboard a Long Island Rail Road train before 
•· three passengers tackled him. Notes carried by Colin the 35-year-old Ferguson, who is black, indicat-Ferguson ed he was outraged by racism he perceived in a •J•ve done a bad thing: wide range of institutions and people. "It's hard. •AQ$35 for me to understand why somebody would do. •=::So!;'YortCitysomething like that," McCarthy said. "We're· •Nativeof.Jamaica rational people. We don't think along those =~~~mverslty lines." McCarthy was surrounded by her two onLoog ~s~an<~ brothers and two sisters as she spoke. She •Nopriorcrlmlnal~ smiled most of the time when she talked about 
The gun 
her 26-year-old son, but was on the verge 
Ruger 9mm semiautomatic pistol
tears several times when she recalled her 52­
Ferguson purchased the $324.74 handgun in year-old husband. Neurosurgeon Nancy Epstein California. It holds one bullet in chamber and fifteen in a clip.
said Kevin "beat the odds," but added, "we were not optimistic." She predicted Kevin will be par­alyzed forever on one side. McCarthy, however seemed to remain optomistic about the situation. "I do expect to see him up and walking again some day," she said. "I couldn't imagine him any other way." She still has a long holiday season ahead of her with neither husband or son. 
SOMERVILLE, Mass. A 3-year-old girl whose relatives didn't realize she was missing until she appeared on the evening news the next day was reunited with her stepmother on Thursday. "Did you miss your mommy? Did you dream of mommy? Did you try to call mommy?" stepmother Marie Solange Aubry, 40, said as young Arnoldlina Jeudy clung to her. Family members didn't realize Arnoldlina missing after she disappeared Tuesday because everyone thought she was with someone else, they said. A family friend saw the girl on television Wednesday. Arnoldlina lives with Aubry -who holds a full-time and a part-time job-but often stays with other relatives. She got lost Tuesday after she and two stepsisters went to a nearby market. 
LOS ANGELES Americans feel somewhat better about the economy and are giving President Clinton the highest marks since his post-inauguration honeymoon, according to a poll pub­lished Thursday. Fifty-nine percent of those surveyed said they view Clinton favorably, and 31 percent had an unfa­vorable view. the Los Angeles Times poll found. Ten per­cent were undecided. It was the highest favorable margin since the early days of his term. The telephone survey of 1 ,612 randomly chosen adults was conducted between After analyzing the available data, James Trussell of Dec. 4 and Dec. 7. The margin of error was plus or minus Princeton University concluded that the Reality female 3 percentage points. Of those surveyed, 68 percent said condom is about as effective as the male condom and the Clinton had the "honesty and integrity to serve as presi­diaphragm. And, in practice, it may be far superior for dent," and 23 percent said he did not. During the presi­men and women who don't like to use male condoms, he dential campaign last year, Clinton never got above 56 said. "It's the only method that prevents both pregnancy percent on that question. Those surveyed said they also and sexually transmitted diseases that is under the control feel better about their economic prospects. Forty-eight of the woman," said Trussell. With perfect use -at every percent said the country was in a serious or moderate re­act of intercourse -the female condom has a failure rate cession. At election time last year, nearly 7 5 percent of the of 5 percent, compared to 3 percent for the male condom, respondents held that view. Trussell said. 
NATIONAL Weather
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Dec. 9. 
Thursday, Dec. 9 Accu-Weather • forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
50s Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. 
© '~ ~.:,~-:~TI--Jr-~~:-'L..)
"• 
~ 

FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Cl1993 Accu-Wealher, tnc. 
Prttssure 
H L B ~ [DJ 0 IZJ ~ll i) ~ U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H L Jerusalem 59 43 Pari!i 54 45 Athens 57 48 London 54 39 Philadelphia 53 42 Atlanta 59 41 Los Angeles 69 51 Rome 55 41 Boston 51 39 Madrid 54 39 Seattle 46 41 Chicago 38 29 Mtnneapolis 29 22 Seoul 46 32 Cleveland 39 31 Moscow 32 32 Toronto 38 25 Dallas 65 46 New York 50 44 
Washington, D.C. 51 37 


Friday, December 10, 1993 

The Observer • NEWS page 3 
In Russian elections, real race is resentment vs. hope 
By ALAN COOPERMAN 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
At the Palace Hotel, million­aire Russian banker Valery Kubarev chatted on a cellular telephone as a tuxedoed waiter delivered a $40 brunch of filet mignon, eggs and champagne. 
A few blocks away, 53-year­old Natasha Sheshmonova walked into a center for home­less people and asked police to lock her up so she could get a bath and some buckwheat por­ridge. 
When Russia's 107 million voters go to the polls Sunday to elect a new parliament and rat­ify a constitution, Sheshmonova will still be in the sour-smelling lockup, unable to cast her bal­lot. Kubarev, 31, will vote for himself, an independent candi­date for parliament's lower house, the Duma. 
Sheshmonova and Kubarev are extremes, but they repre­sent the huge gulf in Russia's electorate between winners and losers after two years of e.co­nomic upheaval. · 
President Boris Yeltsin's sup­porters did not need to put a sign on the wall reminding themselves: "It's the economy, durak (stupid)!" In Russia to­day, the economy -particu­larly the widening gap between rich and poor -is never far from anyone's mind. 
Competing in the election are 13 parties and blocs. They range from the front-running, pro-Yeltsin Russia's Choice al­liance to the revived Communist Party and the ex­
1 Medium I Topping Pizza 
$599 
Get up to 4 more pizzas for half the regular menu price 
expires 121 18193 

Parliament elections may be undermined 
By SARAH DORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Although next week'selec~ tions ofthe Russian Parliament may turn out to be the coun­ty's rust truly democratic elec· tions. they are being jointly carried out with the adoption of an undemocratic constitu· tion that may.serve to·under­mine any democraticJnten­tions, according to Igor Grazin, . professor of economicsand.,.... · "The elections are <l. step 
Yeltsin is acting prematurely by saying that he is the President of a Democratic country, when inactually his current leadership in Russia resembles an enlightened au­thoritarianism, Grazin said. · An additional complication to intentions ofa democratic elec­
·uon is the complicated elec­toral system that is currently in operationin Russia. Gr<l.tln $aid. . · . ..The electoral system is Practically. inunderstandable/~ 
forwarc).but theymay)lotturn • he said. .. ···•••···· ... ·.·... ···•••··•••··· .··
As a professor of constitu.. •
ou.t the way many expect/• he 
srud. · · . 
By holding the election.s.be­forethe.adoptionofanewcop.. stitution. Russian President· Boris Yeltsln has acted extremely. undemocratically. .·Grazin. saJd••.···a~d. thi~.··may translate into tb,e elections rep"' . resenting little more than 
Clllothel'symbol ofthe l(lck or 
orga1li?.ation and demo~rac}t
. currently·characteristic· of the ··voters are also.unl.lwar~• of the···· ·str(}~g againstParliament... be 
country. · 
Democrats. But the underlying race Sunday is Resentment vs. Hope. 
Resentment of the new rich is the most powerful weapon of Yeltsin's opponents, who ac­cuse him of impoverishing or­dinary Russians while bankers and mobsters ride in chauffer­driven Lincoln Town Cars. 
On Yeltsin's side is hope. No one defends the mobsters or the conspicuous consumption of 
Roses are Red Violets are Blue. On Dec. 18th, 
Stephanie G. is 22! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Ang & Desdamona 

vodka traders. But Yeltsin's support­ers say the economy has begun to stabilize and the emerging entrepreneurial class can re­build Russia -if free-market reforms continue. 
"I think the main job of the new parliament should be to deal with state finances. taxes, tariffs, deficits. Our country doesn't need more political fights. We need a working body 
EEK SPECIALS! 

Valid on Carry-Out or Delivery 
1 Large Cheese Pizza for $799 OR l Medium Cheese Pizza for $6ill! 
Any 2nd Cheese Pizza 112 price 
12/18193 


2 Medium 2 Topping Pizzas 
$1Q99 
expires 1211 8193 
~ional law. Grazinsaid that it tQok himover one hour to f~miliarizehimself with the <;urrent system. q~estioning Jhe lack ofunderstand~ng that l~ss.edu¢a,ted voters co.uld 
.p.aye.• of.~h.~procedures.< \. . ~Sue~ ll: ~ystemjust op~ns · ~be door tg man~ manipula-·. tjons,"lle said... > ....•..••.••·.·... ··•••···••·•·•••··.... 
.·•..•.... ·.Without. a new Gonstituti~m{ 
candidates' Parliamentary 
positions. · 
..They [voters] don't know exactly what the rights of the Parliament are in this conn­try," he said. "Voters have no idea of what to look for or expect when voting." 
Also, the brevity ofcampaign · time is does not bode well for a fair evaluation of the candi­dates. Grazin said. 
..A well calculated choice of constituents is very hard to d() in s-uch a short time." he said. 
A,s for his own p.o-wer and
Cl.JlTtmt position as headof the Rj.tssian government•. Boris Yeltsin may he atteD)pting to garner even.mort} cQntrolling power by "playing arqund with the ideas o(early.. l?erhaps sum.mer, ··• electi()ns," .said Gr~zintbVl.P..9t.· UJ.aking ··any.h~:rg andfa~t plan~ apout sucli a proposaL 
~*l}ereis always ~ riskthat
Y'~ltsin wi]l becom~ el(tremel? 
.· authorityJhat is v~sted i~Jh~ .. sa.i(L · '')· ·.·. · · ·. · · ··· fir 
•-..... :-:.-·----~:::::/ -"· --: ·.:--.· -: -·:::.::~::~---·-=-:::r:r:~:f. 
·:::·:t&i:T~Ij:l~~~i}:;~:~:;~f~~ffiit!f{~i~Y :<Nf .:~:ftf· -.·· 
of financially comp~t~~t p~~·= ple," says Kubarev, reflecting his generation's faith in busi­ness over ideology. 
Kubarev and his ilk are not heartless. A cornerstone of his campaign is that the govern­ment must do more to help the poor, elderly and disabled. 
But he says the way to do it is to make welfare payments via interest-bearing commercial bank accounts -helping both the poor and the banks, includ-
Across From Coaches' 
\ ·, 1lid o11 <:; m·~·-< >Lll or I >l'liH'!'\
.ne-• .-­
Order of Breadsticks with a Medium/Large Pizza Purchase 
not valid with liSe of any other coupon 
12/18/93 

ing his own three-year-old Megabank. 
He has spent $120,000 of his own money promoting his can­didacy and the bank-account idea in TV and radio adver­tisements. 
Across the country, other businessmen also are pouring money into TV time. billboards, and less savory campaign tac­tics. such as subsidized cham­pagne for voters. Some news­papers allegedly are willing to provide favorable coverage of local candidates -for the right price. 
Most of the Soviet-era par­liament members owed their jobs to unquestioning allegiance to the Communist Party. Some of the people now running under democratic labels are rich businessmen trying to buy the prestige. and connections, of a seat in parliament. 
To many voters, nothing much seems to have changed. But by and large, observers agree that the campaign has suffered more from indifference and incompetence than crookedness . 
Yeltsin dissolved the old par­liament in September because it was blocking economic re­form and building its own power. When hard-liners took up arms to resist, he ordered tanks to blast them out of the barricaded White House. More than 140 people died in the fighting Oct. 3 and 4. 
If resentment prevails at the polls on Sunday, October's vio­lence will have been in vain. Yeltsin will face a parliament that is no more cooperative than the one he vanquished. 

••·····.···· )s~crind-i~:r'.fi6J;c:rQ~~··•·•..• St\l~¢nt Ryan f{lllm h~ been "giy~p; one ot the. ~l:'1l~8.Iizing . ··thtl])ream10 erwardsJnrJ993. < *Realizing ..• the Dream" awar<ls .are ~ptmsored.by ·the · ·•·•• ~n~l\lla Education~lrMilities .Autbpnt:y· oflrulian~J)olis and are given to college students w}lq··e~emplify leadership . a1Jil.ities both academically and witll campus activities in 
their frrst year, 
~~was nominated by the 
teachers and staff and l did 
well ln school... said Hahn 
about her selection. 
Another qualification to re­
ceive · a "Reali~ing the 
Dream.. award is to be a frrst 
generation college student. . 
"I guess I just had the de· 
termination to go; no one else 
ln my·. family ever really 
wanted to ... said Hahn. 
The program also cele.. 
brates the roles played by 
teachers and parents in 
shaping students' aspirations 
to attend college. Along with 
Hahn, her ninth-grade 
English teacher. Robert 
Yenna. of Grissom Middle 
School in Mishawaka, was 
honored as the most influ­
ential teacher in her back­
ground. 
For Hahn's hard work. 
Holy . Cross has been given a 
$500 contribution to the gen­
eral scholarship fund. Yenna 
will also receive a $500 pro· 
fessional dev~lopment award. 
Hahn plans to continue her 
education at Notre Dame 
when her tenure at Holy 
Cross is over, majoring in 
psychology. 
t
-

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 10, 1993 
Clinton says violent crime 'changing lives' Community 
By NANCY BENAC Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Clinton told American mayors and police chiefs today that violent crime is "changing everyone's lives in ways that are quite destruc­tive" and the nation must con­sider strong new means to com­bat it. 
"The American people are tired of hurting and tired of feeling insecure and tired of the violence," Clinton told officials from 35 cities. "We have to move and I think we are pre­pared to move." 
The president said it was ''imperative" to get a strong crime bill through Congress. In recent days, he has said the administration also will con­sider other steps, including pro­posals for handgun licensing and a national amnesty to col­lect illegal weapons. 
Louisville Mayor Jerry Abramson, president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, told Clinton that violent crime has reached epidemic proportions. 
"People in our cities are de­manding action," Abramson 
Fair
Boo 
continued from page 1 

Friday, December 17, students may drop off their books in the Cavanaugh Room in LaFortune from 3 to 6 p.m. On Saturday, 
Scholarship 
continued from page 1 
of the groups. 

"The analysis gives us infor­mation when the tribal shift from hunter-gather society to agriculture society was made," Magee said. "It really gives us a complete reconstruction of their history," 
Four other projects were also awarded for their findings: 
Examining the gender aspects of superheroes, senior Kirsten Keane looked to sources as modern as the television series "Lois and Clark: The New Adventures of Superman." Sponsored by Communications and Theater professor Hilary told Clinton before presenting him with a task force report on violence from the mayors' con­ference. 
Salt Lake City Police Chief Ruben Ortega told Clinton that people have "reached the level of utter dismay and fear," caus­ing Americans to think their only course is to arm them­selves. 
The mayors' task force pre­sented Clinton with a report that called for "immediate ac­tion on a comprehensive pack­age of gun control," establish­ment of more job corps centers, and a nationwide computer data system that included infor­mation on gang membership and narcotics traffickers. 
The task force applauded ef­forts by Clinton to win congres­sional approval of legislation to help put 100,000 more police officers on the nation's streets -but asked for additional funds to allow local police de­partments to pay officers over­time and to buy new equip­ment. 
It also requested that anti­drug efforts be stepped up and that requirements that federal grants for law enforcement be 

eta en to he Notre Dame Room in LaFortune between noon and 4 p.m. 
The actual sale will be held at Stepan Center on Jan. 13 from 4 to 9 p.m. and again on Jan. 14 from 4 to 7 p.m. Purchasers will need to write individual 
Radner, Keane focused on the evolution of the gender roles of major non-animated super­heroes. 
Senior Michael Defranco, sponsored by Father Wilson Miscamble of the History Department, investigated the role of John Hickerson's role in the early Cold War. Hickerson was a major official in the U.S. State Department in 1947, who had influence in U.S. policy for­mulation. 
By measuring fluoride ion content of bones, senior an­thropology major Wayna Roach will be able to construct the chronological data relating to a 15th century grave site in Kentucky. Roach was spon­sored by Mark Schurr of the anthropology department. 
-
-
-
One Last Laugh Before Finals. A Study Break To Relieve The Stress, The Final Of The Semester And No Its Not Cumulative!
-

-
Your Last Chance to See It in 1993. ­
-
-
·sTtiJJDF!J~JT t\GlfiiVJf~!~S iB(JA\HD ­-
-
PRESENTS:-
-
-

-
-
--@lf]liJ @Cf0 (Jf)fj)3 -­
-
-

-
-
-

-
-
------@@[JJ fl@ )J @liJ {?fl -­
-
-

-
-
Featuring: 
-
-

---JMill~Jh~~n 1Flliillim~Y 
-

-
-
-
-r.:,
~~' 
-
-
-
-
-
-


-
-
matched by local funds be waived in certain circum­stances. 
Clinton told the mayors the public was demanding strong action against crime and added that, "I think we can do some­thing." 
''It's changing everyone's lives in ways that are quite de­structive," Clinton told his au­dience in the Indian Treaty Room of the Old Executive Office Building. 
Attorney General Janet Reno told reporters that the Justice Department is studying a vari­ety of proposals to license gun ownership, which she said only makes "common sense." 
Simply registering guns isn't enough, Reno said because peo­ple should be required "to know how to safety and lawful­ly use a gun" before they are allowed to purchase one. 
On Wednesday, one day after a gunman opened fire inside a Long Island Rail Road train in New York and killed five com­muters, Clinton told reporters, "I hope that this will give some more impetus to the need to act urgently to deal with the un­necessary problems of gun vio­
c ec s or eac oo or pay cash. Student sellers can pick up their money at Stepan on Jan. 15 and 16 from noon to 4 
p.m. Any books not claimed af­ter the fair will be sold to a book wholesaler and the pro­ceeds will be donated to chari­ty. 
Junior Margaret Scharle, sponsored by John Kennedy of the philosophy department, ex­amined major issues in the phi­losophy of Aristotle. Scharle looked at the principle of Nicomachean Ethics and how it relates to the relationship be­tween the natural and the moral. 

lence in the country. 
Gun control advocates in Congress and among the na­tion's mayors and police chiefs pointed to the Long Island shooting as a fresh argument for regulations that go far be­yond a long-sought new law requiring a five-day waiting period on handgun purchases. 
"When Congress returns in January, they can once again expect to see me wheeling through the halls, a rolling reminder that we must con­tinue to work together to make America safer," said Jim Brady, a former White House press secretary shot by a gun­man aiming at President Reagan in 1981. Brady uses a wheel chair now. 
Opponents of gun control, meanwhile, warned that Clinton was looking at options that overstep constitutional bounds. 
Clinton "is laying down, if he can, the foundation for gun confiscation," said Larry Pratt of Gun Owners of America. He said gun licensing was uncon­stitutional, adding, "You have to do it with a car, but cars are not constitutionally protected." 
continued from page 1 
together and another group worked at a homeless shelter. While this type of service is not required, it is certainly encour­aged through readings in the handbook, according to Barrett. 
Communities ND begins with a Rally Day on Saturday, Jan. 15, 1994 from 11 to 4. The Rally Day kicks off the new ses­sion with different speakers and gives group members a chance to meet one another prior to their first meeting. 
150-180 people attended last year's Rally Day and 18 groups were formed, 12 of those groups are still together, ac­cording to Barrett. New groups will be formed as need­ed. 
Groups usually meet every two weeks for an hour. Anyone interested in joining a group can sign up through fi­nals week at either the Hesburgh Library or Badin Hall Campus Ministry office. 
Happy 21•• Birthday Dec. 18 
m~aa G.l9lliW)~[j) 
Flanner Hall 

"Getting an early start, Will?" 
LD~e, Dad, M11m, Han1, and Lally. 
Notice to all University of Notre Dame Faculty, Staff and Employees 

.·.• A I .· ,W')·. ..., (.... -., .,.;-""
w~~ . 
.. .. ''L 

·....~ _t)....•... l•..·.. ·_,.·c. 
is pleased to announce its outpatient offices have affiliated with CIGNA MANAGED CARE AND PPO PROVIDER NETWORKS 
Our offices offer: 
• 
easy registration 

•convenient, 
free parking 

•rapid 
turnaround of reports to your physician 


•Computed 
Tomography (CT Scans) 

• 
Diagnostic Imaging Services 


}EFFERSON MEDICAL ARTS BUILDING 919 East Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 4661 7 ( 219) 288,4486 
BREAST IMAGING AND INFORMATION CENTER 919 East Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 4661 7 (219) 288A486 
• 
Mammography 

• 
Ultrasound 


MEMORIAL MEDICAL PLAZA 707 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana 46601 (219) 232,1491 
MEMORIAL SKYWAY PlAZA 610 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana 46601 (219) 232,5191 


r 
I Friday, December 10, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 
i 
Members of the Glee Club will be caroling at each of the girls' dorms at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's throughout the week to promote their annual Christmas concert on Sunday, Dec. 12. 

SECURITY BRIEF 
-:.-:.·-.. · .·. ";~ 


ed seeing a ~uspiclous pe:riHHl in the 
page 5 

Lady of Guadalupe mass to be held on Monday 
Special to The Observer 
A bilingual mass marking the feast of Our Lady of Guadeloupe will be celebrated Monday, Dec. 13 at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Father Richard Warner, counselor to the president and director of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame, will preside and sacred music will be sung in Spanish and English by the Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora and the Notre Dame Folk Choir. Everyone attending the Mass is invited to bring a flower to be presented to the image of Our Lady at the end of the Mass. 
The feast of Our Lady of Guadeloupe celebrates several apparitions of Mary reported between Dec. 9 and Dec. 12 
·A.dJJiisitr~Uon lh~U~in~ .. · Seeudty searched the ~ea })utdid noU~te the suspect. 
Happy Birthday 
to the 

Dancing Cheerleader Doll, 
M~~Ih~ MccCC~y~ 
We Love You, Amanda, Ann, Cara, jessica, Kate, Kelly, Kristin, Mary & Rosanna 
1531-ten years after the con­quest of the Aztec empire-by a native American whose name has been preserved in Spanish as Juan Diego. 
Juan Diego said that Mary had appeared to him at Tepeyac, an Aztec holy site on a hill near what is now Mexico City. 
Speaking in Nahuatl, the local tongue, Mary had sent him to instruct the Spanish bishop, a man named Zumarrago, to build a church on the site. When Juan Diego returned from an unsuccessful attempt to obtain an audience with Bishop Zumarrago, Mary told him to gather the out-of-sea­sons roses which had grown miraculously among the rocks on the hillside and to present them to the skeptical church­man as credentials. 
't:S;39 p.oi~ A Dillion Hallr~ident repoJ1• ed his watch stolen· from aJl ®lock~d locl(arin tbe J(olt"s A-quatic Gertter.locker 
4:02 p.m. A Dillion HaU ri)Sident. was :;; tra.nspril'te€J by ~ecurity to the .Sb1dept · · ··· Health Center for tre~tmen.t pf a sports 
WEDNESDAY, ~~Q~ 8 . 
gJ2:lO a;m; Ail off~campus li!sldent wW:i cited for.driving with an ~l(pir~~~ plate. 
2:27 a.m. A Soutb Bend T(l~J.ident was cited for driving wtth a·suspehded dfi• vers'!!llicen~. · 



page? 

Bug causing cold-like illness in three states 
By MARC RICE 
Associaled Press 

ATLANTA 
A cold-like bug has broken out in three states already this year and is likely to spread as winter approaches, federal health officials said Thursday. 
Outbreaks of respiratory ill­ness caused by bacteria called Mycoplasma pneumoniae typi­cally occur every four to seven years. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said re­cent outbreaks in Ohio, Texas and New York suggest the eas­ily spread infection will in­crease this winter. 
"This type of bacteria causes an illness that looks just like the common cold," said Dr. Jo Hoffman, an epidemiologist with the CDC's childhood and respiratory disease division. "Mainly, it makes you feel tired with a dry cough, sore throat and headache." 
The bacteria can cause pneu­monia, she said, and in a very few cases can be fatal. The infections are usually treated with antibiotics. 
"The major problem with Mycoplasma pneumoniae is when it occurs in a site where people have close contact. ... A lot of people there are going to
'·I 
get it," Hoffman said. "It's out there and there's not a lot you can do to prevent it." · 
The warning comes just one week after the CDC reported that the harsh Beijing flu has made an earlier-than-expected appearance this season. Though the two illnesses are unrelated, some of the symp­toms are similar. 
"What that means is we have two illnesses we know of this year that are occurring in an extraordinary manner," Hoffman said. "If people have a mild case of the flu they might find it hard to distinguish from Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and if they have a severe case of Mycoplasma pneumoniae they might find it hard to distinguish from the flu.~· 
The largest outbreak of the bacteria so far this year was at a medical referral center in southern Texas, where 215 people got sick between Aug. 1 and Nov. 14, the CDC said. 
In Ohio, 4 7 staff members and clients of a workshop for developmentally disabled adults got sick between June 15 and Sept. 5. 
In upstate New York, 48 peo­ple got sick at a center for autistic people from Aug. 1 to Oct. 26. 
In the Ohio and New York outbreaks, the illness stopped spreading after those who were sick were kept at home or oth­erwise separated from the oth­ers. In Texas, laboratory con­firmation of new cases is pend­ing. 
Hoffman said the outbreaks were unrelated, though they point to the higher risk faced by people who are in institutional settings. 
"In an office it's probably not as much a problem as in, say, a school or group home situation where the people have close, prolonged contact," she said. 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 10, 1993 

What's all the commotion? 
Students working in the Debartolo computer cluster learn sharing and patience as long lines and group work make the rooms noisy and crowded. The cluster, located in room 228, is open from 6 to 1 a.m. 
A Christmas gift 
to take home ... 
LESSONS OF THE HEART 

Celebrating the Rhythms ofLife 
Patricia Livmgston 
Readers will recognize themselves and their own experiences in the pages of this warm, compelling book that offers hope and encouragement in the face of the stress-filled demands of contemporary life. 
128 pages, $6.95 
Available at 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


------L--~~------------~--------------------------------------~-~·-­
('~ •.ul__ ,..,

ri :.)\·;·<~:~...; ' ! 
Friday, December 10, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Dutch say drug policy works 
By ABNER KATZMAN 
Associated Press 
AMSTERDAM. Netherlands 
While debate opens up in the 
United States over legalizing 
drugs, the trend in Europe is 
toward increased tolerance for 
the user -and tougher penal­
ties for the trafficker. 

U.S. Surgeon General _Joycelyn Elders set off a storm 
by suggesting America's streets 
might be safer if drug use were 
legalized. 
In Amsterdam, you don't have 
to go far to find evidence that 
appears to support her argu­
ment. 
In the red light district, for 
instance, elderly tourists mingle 
freely with junkies and let their 
pocketbooks dangle freely. In a 
city known as one of Europe's 
major drug bazaars, purse­
snatchings are rare and drug­
related crimes of violence are 
almost unheard-of. 
"I think the tolerance of both 
hard and soft drugs has 
reduced crime in our cities," 
Amsterdam police spokesman 
Klaas Wilting said Thursday. 
But permissiveness toward drug use may be less significant than other policies -such as strict gun control -in explain­ing low levels of crime and vio­lence. 

And Wilting and other European officials oppose out­right legalization. 
"If we do that, the gov­ernment will lose its grip on the (illegal drugs) market, and we can't manage it anymore," said Justice Ministry spokeswoman Jannie Pols. 
Police have focused their war on drugs on traffickers associ­ated with organized crime, even as tolerance toward pos­session and use makes drugs cheap and easy to get. 
The Dutch government elimi­nated penalties for drug posses­sion in 1976, setting a policy that possession of up to a gram of heroin (.035 ounces) or 30 grams (1.05 ounces) of marijua­na or hashish was not a punish­able offense. 
Even though heroin is readily available, the Dutch addiction rate is one of Europe's lowest, with about 15,000 hard drug addicts and 600,000 marijuana and hashish users in this nation of 15 million. 
The heroin substitute methadone is readily available at clinics to city residents. A 
Lay off the drugs and open your eyes, 
~@)~@al~ 
It's your 21st Birthday 
From, The Clowns you Live With! 
needle exchange program has given the Dutch one of Europe's lowest AIDS rates among in­travenous drug users. 
The crack cocaine that has contributed to urban violence in the United States is almost nonexistent. 
But earlier this year, other European nations reacted angrily to the personal view of Dutch drugs czar Robert Samsom that they should all legalize soft drugs like marijua­na and hashish. 
Officials worry more about subversion of their economies by drug money and the increas­ing social costs of addiction than they do about street crime. 
The Dutch rejection of le­galization in favor of official tol­erance reflects government attempts to placate conserva­tives at home and other European nations that fear an inundation of drugs from the Netherlands. 
..We don't want to fill up our jail with drug addicts," said Mario Lap, legal advisor at the Dutch Institute for Alcohol and Drugs. 
.. They should be in treatment centers and not in jails." 
Municipal officials allow so­called coffee shops to sell mari­juana and hashish as a way of keeping users from contact with the heroin street trade. 
Spain, which has one of Europe's highest heroin addic­tion rates, decriminalized soft drugs for personal use a decade ago and tolerates heroin and cocaine use. 
But Spain has the highest AIDS death rate in Europe, with 75 percent of all AIDS-related deaths stemming from intra­venous drug use. 
In Britain, both soft and hard drugs are illegal, but the gov­ernment runs rehabilitation centers where doctors are allowed to prescribe illicit drugs to addicts. 
BRUNO'S DELIVERS! 
FINALS Week Specials: 12in-2 items $5.70<+tax> 18in-1 item $10.00<+tax> 
Fo.r Carry Out/Delivery call 
273-3890 
GOOD LUCK ON FINALS! GO IRISH BEAT AGGIES! 2610 Prairie Ave 288-3320 
Arafat and Peres discuss autonomy accord snags 
By SUSAN LINNEE 
Associated Press 
GRANADA, Spain 

PLO chairman Yasser Arafat and Israel's foreign minister met today in an effort to smooth over differences threatening to delay the Palestinian autonomy accord. 
Arafat and Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres de­clined to reveal details of their 75-minute meeting. Israeli sources, who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity, described the discussions as .. difficult." 
Arafat later dispatched aides to Geneva for talks with an Israeli general in hopes of get­ting the Israeli troop with­drawal from the occupied ter­ritories started by Monday as originally planned. 
But Palestine Liberation Organization officials in Tunisia and Egypt said they expected a delay of at least a few days before the pullout begins . 
Both sides are anxious to get at least a token troop with­drawal going to show the peace process is working and slow a surge in opposition to the autonomy accord from Palestinian and Israeli mili­tants. 
The talks have snagged over security arrangements for Jewish settlements in the occu­pied West Bank and Gaza Strip and control of border crossings to Egypt and Jordan. 
The sides also have been unable to agree on the size of the area around the West Bank town of Jericho, which is to get self-rule under the peace accord signed Sept. 13. Palestinians in the Gaza Strip also are to get autonomy. 
Peres told reporters attempts would be made to meet Monday's deadline for starting the troop withdrawal so as not "to leave the field wide open" for violence by extremists op-
Israel unrest 
Since the signing of the agreement between Israel and the PLO, Many Palestinians and Israelis have been killed as extremists on both sides wage an increasingly violent campaign to undo the accord. 
posed to the plan. Since the accord was signed, violence between A\B-bs and Jews has dramatically escalat­ed. Thirty-eight Palestinians have been killed in confronta­tions with Israelis, while four­teen Israelis have died at the hands of Palestinians. 
Peres said he and Arafat did not discuss ways of dealing with the mounting violence. 
Arafat told reporters the talks with Peres were "very important" but did not directly address questions about whether he was satisified with the results. He later flew to Tunis, Tunisia, where the. PLO has its headquarters. 
Peres said he could not con­firm reports that Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin would meet with Arafat in Egypt on Sunday in a last-ditch effort to get the troop withdrawal start­ed on time. 

---------------·----......I
1­
IcmtBelieveDfs I 

~ 50¢ off Yogrt!.. I :Regular Size Cappuccino! 
CAMPUs SHOPPES 

1837 SOUTH BEND AVENUE I I SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 4Ci6.J1 · Offer expires 12/17/93 .Limit one coupon per customer. I
! Not valid with any other promotion or coupon. ·-Jjj!$1 ~-.. ,..... _j 
~-.. --------..-------.. ­

NOW DELIVERS! 
4 p.m. to 
a.m. 
7 days a week 

271-0125 
Minimum $10 purchase, Free Delivery 
Featuring: 
•Chicken. 
Shrimp or Vegetable Fried Rice 

•Sweet 
& Sour Chicken & Garlic Chicken 

•Cashew 
Chicken. Mongolian Beef 

•Egg 
Rolls, Fortune Cookies 


.----, 
~I 


page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, December 10, 1993 
Crime and punishment: executions prompt discussion 
r 
By LAURA KING 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
Seventy-year-old Hideo Deguchi went to the gallows in the pale light of a winter's day -and the darkness of secrecy. 
In Japan, officials neither 

'j announce executions be­forehand nor confirm them afterward. Relatives usually learn a death sentence has been carried out when prison authorities call them to come collect the body. Final confirmation comes later: In a grim footnote, the dead man's name is crossed off a list in the local public reg­istry. The hangings of Deguchi and three others last month -the first executions since Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa took office four months ago ­have given new impetus to the long-running national debate over the death penalty. Human rights groups have staged a series of protests, and at least one Cabinet minister and a national lawyers' group 
Political prisoner's family denied visits 
By CHARLENE FU 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

Chinese authorities have ordered visiting privileges for a well-known political prisoner suspended for one year, his . family said Thursday. The fami­ly was told their visits get him overexcited. 
The move appeared meant to punish the family for smuggling out a letter in which dissident Liu Gang, 32, described bei,ng tortured. 
Liu, a former physics gradu­ate student, drew a six-year term for his leading role in the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy movement. 
Lin's family, from northeast China's Jilin province, was in Beijing this week seeking a meeting with the Justice Ministry to protest the ban on visits and other alleged abuses. 


Located just off 31 N. ncar WNDU "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial Notre Dame gifts for every occasion (219) 631-6425 have urged a halt to executions. 
Capital punishment "shikei" -is relatively rare in Japan. The most recent hang­ings brought this year's total to seven, but there had been no executions at all in the previous three years. 
The government defended the executions, saying it was simply upholding the law. 
"Personal feelings should not come into play," said Justice Minister Akira Mikazuki, who authorized the hangings. 
But the Hosokawa gov­ernment, breaking with a long­standing official tendency to brush off public opinion, actual­ly seems to be urging open dis­cussion of the issue. 
"Free debate should be held on the system itself," Chief Cabinet Secretary Masayoshi Takemura told reporters after the executions. 
The government hasn't taken a public-opinion survey on the death penalty since 1989, when a two-thirds majority supported it. 
Human rights groups say public sentiment has since 
"We intend to use legal media this year told of being means to protect our rights and beaten, tortured, denied nor­our dignity," the family said in mal food rations and held in a statement distributed to solitary confinement. reporters. It described being "stripped 
"We appeal to China's judi­naked, tied up and dragged cial organs to immediately put around on a concrete floor," a stop to the illegal and repul­and being forced for five sive actions by the responsible months to spend j 4 hours a day officials of the Lingyuan No. 2 sitting absolutely still on a Labor Reform Detachment,'' bench. where Liu is a prisoner. Chinese authorities 
U.S. officials have warned deny Liu's account. They said China it is in danger of losing that as an intellectual, he got its most-favored-nation trading preferential treatment and was status next year because of exempted from physical labor. human rights issues. The status guarantees China lower tariffs. 
Despite regulations that pris­oners should serve terms near home, Liu was sent to prison in 
The Finest ofQuality 
a different province, Liaoning, 
WHOLESALE JEWELERY 
making it hard for his family to go for the monthly visits grant­ed relatives under Cf.inese law. 
I

A 16-page letter from Liu that his family distributed to news 

Diamonds large & small, 10 &14 K. Italian gold, Custom design 
~ 

F== ..:::u::~~·-.
.....:..z:~~r:~ii~
;il'ii 272-4200 
~:_--;::.:_:-.~~~;,.~~-·~.·--. --·-BUY • SELL • TRADE • REPAIRS 
University Commons, State Road. 23, South Bend, Indiana 
THE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE AND PRO SHOP 


changed. Authorities don't con­
cede  that  claim,  but  ac­ 
knowledge  a  new  survey is  
needed.  

Most Japanese are at least nominally Buddhist, and some cite religious objections to capi­tal punishment. One justice minister was a Buddhist priest who refused to sign any death warrants during his tO-month tenure in 1991. 
But the country also has a centuries-old martial tradition extolling the stoic acceptance of punishment for transgressions -even including death. 
Japan has had a capital pun­ishment law on the books since its modern judiciary was creat­ed a century ago. For the past 25 years, the death penalty has only been imposed in murder cases. 
The Supreme Court has ruled capital punishment is constitu­tional, but has recommended that death sentences be kept to a minimum. A former Supreme Court judge, Shigemitsu Dando, wrote a best-selling book two years ago urging an end to exe­cutions. 
.. If we consider that whenev­er the death penalty system is applied it is inevitable that innocent people will sometimes be executed ... the death penal­ty becomes the ultimate epit­ome of inhumanity and cruel­ty," he wrote. 
As in the United States, long stays on death row are com­mon. So it is not unusual for those executed to be elderly men like Deguchi, the 70-year­old hanged last month. 
Human rights groups say that's barbaric. They also object to the secrecy sur­rounding executions -a policy the government says is meant to protect the families of the condemned from public shame. 
Deguchi and a fellow em­ployee of a chemical company, also hanged, were convicted of killing two company officials and burying their bodies on Port Island in Kobe, western Japan, in 1974. Courts held that the murders were part of attempts by the two employees to cover up embezzlement of company funds. 


Visi.t the
. . 
uSATELLITE SHOP'~ at the JACC 
Open. berore, during & dter the game 
Executions are invariably reported in the newspapers a few days after the fact, howev­er. Law enforcement sources, defense lawyers and rights groups spread the word. 
Argument about the death penalty is part of a larger debate over crime and punish­m~nt in Japan. Critics say the justice system consistently loads the dice against the accused, and fails to provide sufficient protections for prisoners. 
In criminal cases, 99 percent of defendants are convicted on at least one charge. Prosecutors say that's proof of efficient law enforcement, but lawyers' groups say it shows the legal system is far out of balance. 
Police often rough up crimi­nal suspects to obtain confes­sions; a prosecutor was fired last month for beating a suspect in custody. 
Suspects can be detained without formal charges for sev­eral weeks, and are not provid­ed government-appointed lawyers while in police deten­tion. 
Congratulations, 
Iar.rihru AcdlMll~~ 
May the luck of the Irish be with you every day ofyour life. 
Love, Mom&Dad 


Friday, December 10, 1993 The Observer·· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Administration favors natural gas initiative 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration made clear Thursday its fuel of choice is natural gas and promised to find ways to build more pipelines and erase mar­keting barriers to help the in­dustry. 
The administration's long­awaited oil and gas initiative fo­cused heavily on shifting the nation's energy policy away from oil -especially imports that comprise about half of the petroleum used in the United States. 
Energy Secretary Hazel O'Leary said the administration wants to help U.S. oil and gas producers reduce costs by giv­ing them access to federal weapons labs to develop the latest technologies for explo­ration and drilling. 
But the 36-page document emphasized the benefits of nat­
************* 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Finals Extended Store Hours 
Friday 12/1 0: 7:30a.m.-Midnight· 
Saturday 12/11: 9 a.m. ,.. Midnight . 
Sunday 12/12: . 9 a.m. -Mjgnight 
Monday 12/13: 7:30a.m.-Midnight· A 
Tuesday 12/14: 7:30a.m.-Midnight 
Wednesday 12/15: 7:30a.m.-Midnight . 
Thursday 12/16: 7:30 a.m. ~ Midnight '· .. 
Friday 12/17: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight 
Saturday 12/18: 9 a.m. -7 p.m. 
(We'll be open Monday 12/20 through Thursday 12/23 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. too!) 
************* 
END OF SEASON SALE 
ural gas as the primary domes­tic source of fuel and reiterated the need to conserve energy and "reduce (the nation's) de­pendence on fossil fuels." 
The energy blueprint fell short of the demands of inde­pendent oil producers who have been clamoring in recent weeks for the government to intervene and halt the ·downward spiral of world oil prices. 
In announcing the long-term strategy, O'Leary sympathized with the industry, noting that it has lost 450,000 jobs in the last decade, but rejected sugges­tions of short-term intervention on prices. 
"I think some of us are of the impression that short-term fixes don't work anyway," she said. " ... The problems (of the industry) didn't occur overnight, nor will the solu­tions." 
The Clinton blueprint said a top priority would be to "stimu­late markets for natural gas" by expanding the construction of pipelines, stabilizing gas prices through long-term con­tracts, and developing new products -cars, refrigerators and air conditioners -that use natural gas. 
At the White House, mean­while, President Clinton promised to expand the use of natural gas-fueled cars in the government's fleet of vehicles. He said it will help the economy and "reduce our reliance on foreign oil." 
"There's no question that we have to shift, as rapidly as we can, to alternative fuels," added Vice President AI Gore. "The automobile is essential to our future. What is not essen­tial is the 400 million tons of carbon emissions that gasoline vehicles send into the atmo­sphere each year." 
The administration promised to target 38 areas of the coun­try, including areas with some of the worst smog problems, where federal fleet conversion programs are hoped to stimu­late conversions in private and state and local government fleets. 
Garry Mauro, the Texas lands commissioner who headed the alternative fuel task force, ap­plauded Clinton's enthusiasm about natural gas. One of these days, he said "we're going to see the president in a natural gas limousine. Isn't that great?" 
Help for the oil and gas industry 


The Clinton administration is unveiling a blueprint today to help the oil and gas industry, primarily by offering federal assistance in developing leading-edge technologies to reduce exploration and drilling costs. 
Among the proposals outlined were: 
• 
Increased cooperation between the department's scientific laboratories to bring into use "leading edge technology" to help find and drill for oil and gas. 

• 
Easing regulatory burdens, by finding cheaper ways for refiners to comply with clean air and other environmental rules. 

• 
Lower government royalties for oil and gas from offshore and government land. 

• 
Developing ways for better marketing of natural gas. 

• 
The administration will ask for $50 million in the 1994 fiscal year budget to create a joint venture with industry that would allow the sharing of the latest petroleum technology. Industry would contribute another $50 million. 


APfiNm. J. Castello 

The oil and gas initiative also pledged to help the industry find ways to economically de­velop oil and gas in deep-water areas in the Gulf of Mexico and to reduce royalty payments for products taken from offshore areas and government land. 
EVERYTHING ELSE IN THE STORE AT LEAST 20% OFF 

HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
SPECIAL HOLIDAY HOURS: MONDAY· FRIDAY 9:00AM ·4:00PM DEC.15-17 ·9:00AM· 6:00PM (DEC. 20 CLOSED AT 1PM) PARK ON LYON"S BASKETBALL COURTS IF ON CAMPUS 
NO OTHER DISCOUNTS APPLY 
Hold-up spurs debate over trackers 
ByTERRI LANGFORD 

I 
~ l I 
I 
J 
I l 
j 
I 
,, 

page 10 The Observer • HUBBLE TELESCOPE NEWS Friday, Dcember 10, 1993 
,. 
.. 
\: Hubble ftx-it astronauts finish job with a little miracle 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 

SPACE CENTER, Houston 
High-flying mechanics on a record-breaking fifth spacewalk completed repairs to the near­sighted Hubble Space Telescope today after exerting a little ex­tra muscle. 
The final spacewalk of the Endeavour mission turned out to be the most trying. But the astronauts aboard the shuttle accomplished all the tasks that NASA had set for them. 
"Great work, absolutely out­standing work," Mission Control told the seven-member crew. "We all couldn't be more proud of you." 
Still ahead were Friday's tele­scope release and two months of optical testing and fine-tun­ing. 
"It's not over until it's over, and it's not over," said lead flight director Milt Heflin. "I refuse to get too excited too early." 
During the spacewalk, Story Musgrave and Jeffrey Hoffman had to pry loose the two solar­panel arms from the sides of the telescope after motors failed to do the job. Ground controllers could not get the arms to drop into the position necessary before the electricity­generating panels can be unfurled. 
Musgrave tugged lightly and cranked each arm down with a ratchet wrench, and the arms 
dropped slowly into place. "Incredible," he said. 
Just before the seven-hour, 21-minute spacewalk ended, the new golden-colored solar panels were unfurled to a full 40 feet by ground controllers. "All right!" Hoffman shouted. The main antenna-later was deployed. 
"We look forward to getting rid of this bad boy tomorrow," said shuttle commander Richard Covey. "It seems to be pretty eager to regain its own independence from the orbiter." 
Earlier this week, the crew installed a set of corrective mir­rors and a new camera with corrective optics to allow the $1.6 billion Hubble to see the universe with a clear eye. But astronomers won't know if the optical repairs worked until after the extensive testing. 
"Our job is just beginning," said David Leckrone, Hubble's senior project scientist. 
Hubble was launched in 1990 with a misshapen mirror that prevented it from discerning the more remote objects in the cosmos. A manufacturing error was to blame. 
The Endeavour crew, due to return to Earth on Monday, set a U.S. spacewalk record with its five outings. The previous NASA record was four. 
NASA officials and even the astronauts themselves never expected the spacewalks to go so well. The spacewalkers installed all 11 new Hubble 

---.,
Chinese -American · Restaurant & Cockt1kil Lounge 
1\.uthentic Szechuan, 
~J:t~~..rf;~ M?.ndarin & Hunan Cuisit.~ 

Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
(next w Randall's Inn) 


was painstakingly slow. 
Musgrave and Hoffman required three hours -twice as long as expected -to replace the electronics that drive the solar panels. The job was one of the toughest of the mission because of the many electrical connections that had to be made. 
Three screws came loose. One floated into the cargo bay, and Hoffman swooped down and caught it. Musgrave caught the others. 
''I'm sorry it took so long," Musgrave said when the job was done. "One of the real diffi­culties we didn't have practic­ing is that all the connectors go in your face." 
The astronauts also installed a switch on Hubble's ultraviolet light detector to correct power trouble. And they put makeshift covers over two magnetometers to prevent exposed foam from deteriorating and possibly cont­aminating the telescope. Magnetometers help guide the telescope. 
NASA was relieved to find no problem with a new computer installed on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, engineers on the ground discovered errors in the data. But the problem was found to be just a bad antenna angle. 
Before the problem was solved, N.ASA had said that in a worst-case scenario, the astro­nauts might be sent out on a sixth spacewalk to fix it. 
NASA spent $629 million on the repair mission, the first of several planned Hubble service calls. 
Despite all their spacewalks, which lasted a total of 35 hours and 28 minutes, the astronauts were eager for more. 
"K.T. and I are standing by for tomorrow's plans," astro­naut Tom Akers jokingly told Mission Control. Akers and Kathryn Thornton -K.T. ­made the second and fourth spacewalks. Hoffman and Musgrave made the first, third and fifth. 
"Listen to you guys. You're so greedy," Mission Control replied. _ 
Said Akers: "When you're on a roll ... " 
Happy 21st Birthday 
Thanks for all the 
Happy Memories! 
Love, .Mom, Dad, Mary Kate, & Pat 




:l 
·I 
{ 
Make your next move to Hickory Village and dlscoveraffordabllity, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includes team sports, free aerobics classes, and mudt more. 
Efficiencies from $270 1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bodrooms from $345 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio ~r Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free A'Jrobics 
Slop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 

~7~-lSSU 
+llCKORU 
DlLLACiEf! 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6, 
S~t 



Friday, December 10,1993 page 11
The Observer • NEWS 
Some saw too much ofSomalia 
By MARK FRITZ 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU, Somalia 

Capt. Drew Campi happily hovered in his helicopter to protect relief convoys, then found himself leading attacks on Somalis who killed his com­rades. 
Then, he cursed in rage when the faction leader he tried to find or shoot and learned to hate was shuttled to peace talks two weeks ago aboard a U.S. military plane. 
Now, after two tours that spanned both ends of the year­long mission to Somalia, he just looks forward to leaving this baffling place next month, when the withdrawal of U.S. troops will be moving full throt­tle. 
"If you look at the hu­manitarian effort, maybe casu­alties were worth it,'' said Campi, the 28-year-old com­mander of a squadron of U.S. Army Cobra attack helicopters. "If you look at the other part, the sort of battles we fought, those deaths weren't." 
Most U.S. troops visit Somalia 

1994 COLLEGE BOWL TOURNAMENT 
Team registration forms and rules are available at the information desk of the Center for Continuing Education (CCE). 
Forms are due back to the Center by 5 pm. on January 17. 1994. 
Tournament play begins January 22, 1994. 

HLet's play College Bowl!H 
for about four months and then leave, so they have a limited perspective on the evolution of the U.S.-led relief mission that began on Dec. 9, 1992. 
But a relative handful saw Somalia in two pieces and some of them, like Campi, consider the first a noble crusade and the second its evil mutant twin. 
The pivotal transition came when the United Nations took command of the operation in May and clan leader Mohamed Aidid aligned himself against it. 
On June 2, Somali gunmen believed loyal to Aidid killed 24 Pakistani peacekeepers. The United Nations issued a war­rant for his arrest, and Campi and other chopper pilots took part in a furious hunt for the warlord and his lieutenants. 
A U.S. helicopter was shot down in September, and pieces of what Somalis said were the pilots' bodies were paraded through the streets. Another crewman was taken hostage and eventually freed. 
"I was the first to get the call that a helicopter was down," said Capt. Michael Lewis, 27, a battle planner in Campi's unit, the Raven Task Force of the Army's 1Oth Mountain Division, from Fort Drum, N.Y. 
"I think everyone expected there would be casualties, but when this happened it hit home for us,'' said Lewis from Albany, Ore., who also is on his second tour. "We went from a humanitarian mission to com­bat." 
On Oct. 5, a firefight left 18 Americans and an estimated 300 Somalis dead. President Clinton ordered all the troops home by March 31. Aidid finally called a cease-fire. 
Then a U.S. military plane shuttled Aidid to peace talks in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Campi said it enraged the troops. He said he had fixated on Aidid as the enemy the way he Bid on Sad dam Hussein when the pilot flew missions in Iraq. 
"There was a tremendous loss of morale," said Campi, from West Long Branch, Va. "He killed U.S. soldiers." 
Lewis disagreed. He said he understood the decision to make sure Aidid made it to the talks that many people believe, and fear, may be the last hope for the final success of this mis­sion. 
Few soldiers are happy with this shotgun marriage of humanitarian, political and mil­itary mission under the aegis of the United Nations. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Serv1ce 


-$1.00 
• Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported its student 
F u N ° caller incentive program. 
P~ eedcr-
Arbv's Roast Beef Restaurants 
J 
Book v-.r orld KCA on the Run Michael & Co. Hair Salon Shoney's Restaurant The Varsity Shop 
Spanish 
new section opened ROSP 495 SOCIAL JUSTICE AND SPANISH AMERICAN AUTHORS 4:15-5:30 p.m. T TH Call # 5824, Section 2 
! 
i 
\ 
i 
!~ ' I 
l 

' 
i ,, 

ZERO= Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, 
I 
chemically dependent, on certain medications, or ! pregnant. 
-
~. 
~ ONE = One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate 
i' 
drinking. THREE = No more than three drinks per day, and never daily. 
..; 
\ \ 

·,;.,..,=, :·.:.,......._, .• ,,.,;,,;.:.;.:.,;;.r.;,:i~::~m;~.~.~~:~,~~0.!~t!~f.;~~yj~&tititE,:~it.i.~iW~:;l.z~~@tR~~R~~i~!{j:I.~~~;,t.~~lli~!%WX!;);tfJ!.~f,~lfW~ 

;' 
.) 
-----~------~--~­
BUSINESS 
Friday, December 10, 1993 page 13 
Delaware Court negates Paramount anti-takeover defenses 
By THERESA HUMPHREY man Sumner Redstone to de­takeover costs. decision was made, Paramount the board was obliged to con­Associated Press cide Paramount is overpriced Barry Diller, chairman of QVC directors "'had a duty to con­sider other reasonable offers, and not worth a higher bid. He and the former head of tinue their search for the best they said. WILMINGTON might decide to walk away with Paramount Pictures, sought the value for stockholders,"· he QVC's lawyer, Herbert M. 
Delaware's highest court up­a $100 million termination fee, original court ruling. said. Wachtell, argued that held a ruling Thursday strip­they said. The Supreme Court, in an Paramount had argued it Paramount's board unfairly dis­ping Paramount Communica­The Delaware Supreme Court oral order from the bench, said made a "strategic" merger with regarded QVC's bid. tions Inc. of key anti-takeover affirmed a Chancery Court de­the Paramount directors failed long-term value, and didn't defenses, giving hostile bidder cision that said Paramount's di­to properly investigate the offer have to open itself up to all "This was a board that was QVC Network Inc. a better shot rectors had violated their duty by QVC, the West Chester, Pa.­prospective buyers. uninformed, that was misin­at the entertainment and pub­to shareholders by trying to based home shopping channel. The Supreme Court's decision formed, and evidenced no de­lishing giant. deploy the company's "poison QVC launched its bid eight days meant Paramount's board sire to be informed," he told the 
QVC is currently offering a pill" defense against QVC but after Paramount and Viacom, would have to reconsider its three justices. combination of cash and stock not Viacom. which owns cable channels in­options, said John Coffee, a Paramount, a leading maker worth about $10.2 billion for The poison pill allows cluding MTV and Showtime, Columbia University corporate of films and TV programming, Paramount, while Viacom Inc., Paramount to sell stock to its announced their merger deal law professor interviewed on owns a huge film library and which had agreed to a friendly shareholders at bargain prices, Sept. 12. Court TV, which televised ar­has a large publishing opera­merger with Paramount, is of­flooding the market and making Paramount's directors had guments before the Supreme tion. Those resources have fering $9.4 billion. a takeover prohibitively ex­recommended the company's Court and the justices' decision. grown increasingly appealing to 
Analysts said Viacom will pensive for unwelcome bidders. shareholders accept Viacom's The justices ruled the cable TV and telephone compa­likely be forced to increase its The justices also upheld the bid and ignore QVC's higher of­Paramount-Viacom merger nies as they launch ventures in $9.4 billion bid to match or sur­lower court's ruling against fer. amounted to a change in con­interactive media. pass QVC's $10.2 billion offer, Paramount's attempt to grant Chief Justice Norman Veasey, trol. with Redstone becoming and that a third bidder might millions of dollars in stock op­reading the court's opinion, the majority shareholder and The ruling came after the even enter the contest. tions to Viacom, which also said Paramount, in trying to Paramount shareholders mov­stock market closed, and there­
But some said the QVC victory would have added hundreds of merge with Viacom, effectively ing into the minority. fore had no effect on the com­could prompt Viacom's chair-millions of dollars to QVC's put itself up for sale. Once that Under those circumstances, panies' stock prices. 
Inflation not a factor for 1994 economic outlook 
By JOHN D. McCLAIN 2.8 percent forecast published nomic forecasting services, uni­percent annual rate this quar­Associated Press by the Sedona, Ariz., newslet­versities and Wall Street frrms. ter, up from 3.3 percent in the ter. The new survey was for Twenty-eight of the 51 econo­November survey and the 2. 7 WASHINGTON publication Friday. mists raised their forecasts this percent reported by the gov­
Many of the nation's top Still, the improvement "did month for economic growth ernment in the July-September economists believe the economy not come at the expense of the next year. quarter. will continue to grow moderate­panel's optimistic view on infla­They cited a sharp drop in Many believe it is expanding ly next year without setting otT tion," wrote editor Robert J. unemployment, continued even faster. a new round of inflation. Eggert. strength in housing, autos and "In fact, an average of the 10 
The consensus forecast of 51 In fact, the economists' fore­other durable goods and the largest estimates of fourth­economists polled in early De­cast for the Consumer Price nearly 8 percent advance in quarter economic growth came
Severa rUnes 

cember by Blue Chip Economic Index in 1994 slipped to 2.9 business investment spending. in at a whopping 4.6 percent,"
lextelllUea air~fa.re dis Indicators calls for 2.9 percent percent in the December survey Eggert wrote. 
giving passengers until 
growth in the gross domestic from 3 percent a month earlier. But despite the drop in the
week to buy tickets. 
product in 1994, up from a pro­The CPI rose 2.9 percent in jobless rate to 6.4 percent in The economists do not believe
A'sale applying to trave 

jected 2.8 percent this year. 1992 and was rising at a 2.8 November, the Blue Chip con­that rate can be sustained,
over the holidays was extend The GOP is the total output of percent annual rate in October. sensus forecasts unemployment however. The consensus for the
ed late Wednesday and, · 
goods and services within the The government will report the wiJI be 6.5 percent a year from first three months of 1994 is an• a separate sale . 
United States. November inflation rate Friday. now. annual rate of just 2.8 percent,ering post*New Year's tri The December consensus for The survey participants rep­The consensus forecast sees and 2. 7 percent in each of thealso was extended until Dec 1994 is higher than Nover.1ber's resent banks, businesses, eco-the economy growing at a 3.8 next three quarters.
15. Discounts a.re common time of year when. except 
Drogul gets fine, prison sentence for Iraq loans
days just before and afte hristmas and New Year's ravel demand is slack an By MARC RICE bank regulators. lie interest and the defendant's cul­
airlines try to fill seats by sell Associated Press The government subsequently dropped pability," the judge said. "Enough is ing cheaper tickets. the most serious bank fraud conspiracy enough." 
American. United and u-..........., ATLANTA charges. Though Drogoul was "clearly guilty," it extended the deadlines, b Former banker Christopher Drogoul was Drogoul had already served 20 months in was "absurd" to suggest that BNL did not 
ans World Airlines plan sentenced Thursday to more than three prison awaiting trial. That time will count know what Drogoul was doing, Tidwell 
to stay with the earlier dead years in prison for helping to arrange $5.5 toward the 37 -month sentence imposed by said. for the post-holiday sale. billion in illegal loans to Iraq before the U.S. District Judge G. Ernest Tidwell. Lynn Drogoul, the banker's wife, said she Gulf War. The sentence came on the fourth day of was pleased with the outcome .. Both sales qad giv~n passen Drogoul, 44, the fired Atlanta branch the sentencing hearing. "When you considered the range, from gers untO Friday to buy tick manager of Italy's Banca Nazionale del Drogoul's attorneys had argued that he walking to the six or seven years the gov­
ts, The holiday sale o Lavoro, originally had been charged with played a minor role in an extensive scheme ernment was asking, in view of the pos­discounts of up to 30 nl')l''I"D!rlt masterminding the scheme. Some of the involving the Bush administration and the sibilities we're very satisfied," she said. but trave~~r5 can't fly on loans were used by Iraq to build up its mili­Italian government. But prosecutors insist­Congressional critics have denounced the 
st p()p~lp.r. days~·· Dec. 2 tary before it invaded Kuwait. ed that Drogoul was the key figure and prosecution's theory that Drogoul was a 23 and Jap,. ~· Ticket$ have He pleaded guilty to 60 counts last year sought a prison term of 6 1/2 years. "lone wolr' who used a federal agricultur­
bouglijt•even ·days but withdrew the plea after a startling sen­Tidwell said both sides had blown the al export program to funnel money to Iraq. advance and travel lias to tencing hearing in which he claimed to be case out of proportion. He criticized prose­The committee continues to investigate the ltolrnDJlete~a by Jan. 5. a scapegoat for failed U.S. foreign policy. cutors for overzealousness against case. 
Days before he was to go on trial on a Drogoul, but stopped short of accusing the Five co-defendants of Drogoul were sen­
The other sale offers up revised 70-count indictment, he pleaded government of misconduct. tenced this year to probation by a judge 35 perceqt ofT for trips .........'"'"''' guilty in September to one count of wire "The government resources dedicated to who called the Atlanta BNL staff bit players between Jan. 6 and March fraud and two counts of lying to federal this case were disproportionate to the pub-in the scandal. 
MARKET ROUNDUP BUSINESS BRIEFS 


December 8, 1993 
High  3,756.60 3,693.73  Highest close Decembu 8. /993  3,734.53 
Low  

BRUSSELS
WASHINGTON 
GENEVA
3734.53 

· · . European Community lead­
· The GATT talks stumbled
A consumer health group
+15.65 

.ers headed Thl.IrSday for. a 
Thursday wllen European 

on Thursday accused. Eli LillY
3750 

.·.crucial summit with no clear
and Co. or covering up a 
. and Japf1nese officials indicat~.
3700 

plan for rest~rting their
problem with the· experimen­
· ed that even if the 116 
3650 

economies· and lowering
tal hepatitis drug that kille~ · 
nations involved in the talks . 
3600 

unemployment. The leaders.
five patients in a National 
reached an overall agree·
3550 

were divided over how to pull
Institutes of Health trial last 
ment, there was not enough
3500 

their economies out of the
time to wrap up complex talks 
summer. The company
3450 

worst recession in decades.
with all the countries in the
denied the allegations.
9/1/93 10/1/93 11/1193 12/1/93 1/1/94 
negotiations. 
page 14 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, December 10, 1993 
Clinton to meet with Syrian President in Geneva 
By DONALD ROTHBERG 
Associated Press 

DAMASCUS 
President Clinton will meet with Syrian President Hafez Assad in Geneva next month to try to restore momentum to the Middle East peace process, Secretary of State VVarren Christopher announced today. 
At a joint news conference with Syrian Foreign Minister Farouk Sharaa, Christopher said it was "appropriate and indeed natural for him (Clinton) to meet with President Assad at this time." 
The meeting will represent a diplomatic victory for Assad, whose country is on the State Department's list of nations that support terrorism. 
In Washington, White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said, "The meeting is part of our overall effort toward a comprehensive peace in the region. The president has met with all the other leaders on all the other tracks -Lebanon, Jordan, Israel and Palestinians -and now he'll meet with Assad." 
Christopher also announced that bilateral talks between Israel and the Arab parties to the peace process will resume in Washington at the end of January or in early February. 
The parties have held ne­gotiations in Washington peri­odically over two years but have not met since mid­September. 
Christopher refused to discuss any particular changes Syria has made in its negotiating position in order to win a meet­ing with Clinton. 
He also refused to discuss specific allegations the U.S. government has made against Syria, including sponsorship of terrorism and involvement in drug trafficking. 
"We have no plans at the pre­sent time to change the position of the United States on those issues," was all he would say. "There was no deal," Myers said. 
Christopher and Sharaa spoke after Christopher had met with Assad for nearly three hours. After the news confer­ence, Christopher flew to Israel, where he planned to brief Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin on his meeting with Assad. 
Myers said the meeting likely will take place at some point in Clinton's trip to Europe and the former Soviet Union in January, although a date has not been set. 
In a statement issued by Myers later, the meeting was described as a chance to "pro­vide the two leaders an oppor­tunity to discuss the require­ments for peace with security between Israel and Syria. It will help put in place this critical cornerstone in the effort to build a comprehensive, just and 
r~·--~----------------------------------~--~ 
"Voted 5est Bed (6 Breakfast in Michiana!" 
Need the Perfect Gift Idea or Getaway? May we sll88~t, 
.: ~-.-~,.. -·· 
.. \\ 
• l ': .-·• 
. ' .. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~4·~
~ ---~ 

__ _../ 
.--........--:1·­
The Bei8e:r ~ansio~ Inn (f) fables Gallery 
Get away or get a gift certificate. Stay m one ofour luxury rooms, lunch in our 
tearoom, enjoy afabulous Saturday night dinner in our State dining room, or select 
a work of art from Fables Gallery. Gift certificates available in any dollar amount. 
Plan nowfor a birthday, an anniversary, honeymoon, or just to say "I love you."
l 
. r 
LUNCHEON DINNER 
Tuesday thru Saturday Saturday evenings only 11:00 AM. -2:00P.M. 6:00P.M.-9:00P.M. 
(219) 256-0365 • 317 Lincoln Way East • Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 

! I 
Group Rates From Notre Dame 
I ' I 
I 
to O'Hare and Midway 
Group to Four $1 00 r 
Phone# 233,.9333 
Will Pick Up at Dorm 

lasting peace for all the people of the region." 
Sharaa said that Assad has 
received invitations to meet 
with every American president 
for the past 20 years. 
President Bush met with 
Assad in Geneva when the 
United States was trying to 
bring Syria into the military 
coalition against Iraq after it 
invaded Kuwait. 
Christopher described Syria as "an important party" in the peace negotiations and said that ..the United States is deter­mined to play its role as a full partner" in the peace process. 
"The Syrian people do not 
believe in that list of terror­
ism," he said. "We are combat­
ing terrorism." 
Sharaa said that his country 
does not believe that the 
Palestinian revolt against 
Israeli authority, "is an act of 
terrorism." 
Earlier in the week, 
Christopher had denied reports 
that Assad would be offered a 
meeting with Clinton in 
exchange for Syrian coopera­
tion in the peace process . 
[L£1J~ OOO@~IY 
Israel insists it will not with­&aw its forces from the Golan Heights before Syria commits itself to a peace agreement. The Syrians say they cannot talk about peace until the Israeli troops are withdrawn. 
This was Christopher's third trip to the Middle East since becoming secretary of state and his primary goal was to re­energize the stalled peace process, particularly the negoti­ations between Israel and Syria. 
For some time, U.S. officials have tried to make clear to Syria some of the tangible ben­efits of cooperating in the peace process. 
The Clinton administration recently supported an exception to economic sanctions against Syria to allow Kuwait to trans­fer three aging Boeing 727 air­liners to Syria. The planes were deemed to have no military or terrorist value. 
But State Department spokesman Mike McCurry said the action on the planes was an exception and not a signal that sanctions against Syria have been eased. 
ifil
1f 




Sign ups this w-eek and during exallls 
for Com.m.unities ND 
-men and women undergradates -in small groups -for prayer, reflection, growth 
Registration form.s at Cam.pus Ministry Hesburgh Library and Badin Hall 
-Kick off Rally ­Saturday, January 15, 11 a.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
©lbW[M] rPO©® wao o
. . . .... 
BE ON THE LOOK OUT FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE EIGHTH ANNUAL ALL·NIGHT SPORTS EXTRAVAGANZA THAT BENEFITS THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OlYMPICS LNO TEAMS ALUMNI • MC CANDLESS • KEENAN BADIN • DILLON • HOLY CROSS BREEN PHILLIPS • CAVANAUGH • REGINA CARROLL • LEWIS FARLEY • ZAHM FISHER • PANGBORN FLANNER • SIEGFRIED GRACE • KNOTT LYONS • MORRISSEY •LE MANS PE • PW • SORIN ST. ED"S • HOWARD • AUGUSTA STANFORD • WALSH REGISTRATION DEADLINE IS MONDAY. JANUARY 17. CALL RECSPORTS FOR THE NAME OF YOUR HALL REP. 
ties 
, .--.. r ~ .r • 1. t' • # '\ w ""1 ' "' f 

OINT 
Friday, December 10, 1993 page 15 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor .........................Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake P"ters Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 

Business Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager.. ................... Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Pauick Barth OTS Director ............................... Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accuratdy and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's Managing Ediror/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production Business Office 631-5313 Advertising Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 


Students demand O'Hara's resignation 
Dear Editor: 
Over the past several days, we've read the letters arguing about the Cavanaugh conver­sion. This bickering between the students serves no purpose because the Notre Dame administration still wields the surgical knife that has convert­ed two male dorms in three years headed by Chief Surgeon (and Vice President for Student Affairs) Patricia O'Hara. 
As former residents of Pangborn Hall, we can certain­ly sympathize with the men of Cavanaugh Hall, and we can understand why they can't make sense out of the adminis­tration's decision. But it is wrong to assume that the Board of Trustees and other administration officials, like O'Hara, are rational actors. They aren't. 
Would a rational person expect to raise the percentage of women admitted to the University, with the eventual goal being gender blind admis­sions, and not have to worry about housing? Even more, after making these goals known to the Notre Dame student body, would a rational person expect us to be so naive as to believe the administration when it tells us that no male dorms will need to be convert­ed? 
This is exactly what hap­pened when Pangborn was taken. A Board of Trustees report was made public, indi­cating its goal of increasing the female population at Notre Dame. Rumors immediately began flying that a male dorm was going to be converted in order to accommodate the new women. Pangborn was one of the dorms mentioned in the 
DOONESBURY 

rumors. Our dorm president called O'Hara's office in order to confirm the validity of the rumor. He could not, however, get O'Hara on the phone, and she was not returning his calls. 
Eventually our president got a hold of Bill Kirk, otherwise known as O'Hara's yes man, who told our president that no male dorms were being consid­ered for conversion. 
Our relief at Pangborn Hall was short-lived, however, when about two weeks later we were to be informed by a cold, impersonal. cowardly letter that our dorm was to be con­verted to female housing the next year. Thankfully, our rec­tor, Father Borden, had the decency to hold these letters and call a dorm meeting to inform us of these decisions personally. 
We will never forget the looks of disappointment on the faces of the priests who resided in our dorm. Not only were the students kept in the dark about the pending decision, but the priests were also deceived by the administration. For this reason we are not at all sur­prised that the Cavanaugh resi­dents in London were not informed by the administration about its most recent decision. Isn't it wonderful to be a part of the Notre Dame family? 
Our question is this: when will this stop? When O'Hara came to Pangborn to explain the administration's decision, one of our residents stood up and showed her a chart that he had made based on the future admissions numbers that the administration had given us. As he pointed to his chart, this person told O'Hara in no uncer­tain terms that Pangborn would not be big enough to hold the future female population, and that another dorm would have to be taken in about three years. 
Just guess what O'Hara said about that: No, his predictions were false, Pangborn was just what the University needed. 
Supposedly the male/female ratio will remain frozen now, but how can we be sure that this is true, especially consider­ing that gender-blind admis­sions will continue? Logic dic­tates that following such a poli­cy will result in fluctuations in the male/female make-up of successive incoming classes. 
Friends, we are calling on the men and women who are argu­ing over the male/female issue of who deserves to be at Notre Dame to stop, and to vent your frustration on the real enemy: the administration. Let us pose another question: would a rational person expect to need at least one coed dorm as a buffer dorm to account for fluc­tuations in the incoming popu­lation? 
Ms. O'Hara, you are a liar and do not follow rational poli­cy that even a junior college business student would follow. We therefore demand your res­ignation from your post as well as that of your yes man, Bill Kirk. 
To the students we say this: do not allow the administra­tion's blatantly offensive treat­ment of your fellow classmates to compel you to sit back and watch in apathy. 
WILLIAM MCDONALD THOMAS KROPEWNICKI 
DAVID NOVAK 
Seniors Pangborn Hall 

Reader: was Observer top ten list some sort of sick joke? 
Dear Editor: 
Where did The Observer dig up those two music critics, Rob and Colleen, and where have they been during the past year? I could barely control my laughter upon reading their top ten picks for albums released in 1993. It was someone's ver­sion of a sick joke, right? 
I listen to a wide range of music, and in my opinion, the few picks on Rob's list that I've heard of have no business being on anyone's top ten list. But I could respect Rob's list (I listen to some pretty weird music myselO. 
I can't say the same about Colleen's. Her list is bad. A number of her picks shouldn't even qualify for consideration. 
"Aladdin" is one of my favorite movies and I love the soundtrack, but can you truly appreciate the music without the movie? I don't think so. The pick of "Aladdin" isn't too bad when compared with some of the others, however. Three of the top six are "greatest hits" albums, songs recorded years ago that are re-released so the artist can make even more money that he/she already has. These are not, in my opinion, albums of 1993. I like Billy Joel's music a lot, but I'd put it on my top ten picks of 1983. 
The biggest joke of either list is Colleen's number one pick. Journey? Aren't they dead yet? Journey's music was bad enough when it was popular. and seeing it at the top of a list of 1993's best albums makes me want to puke. 
The worst pick of either list is Collen's pick of one of those Jimmy Buffett albums, which wasn't even released in 1993! I hate Jimmy Buffett. I know there are thousands of people at the University who love his music, but I also know that there are a lot of people who don't. Anti-Buffett fans, come out of the closet and unite! 
The only respectable pick in either list is Colleen's choice of Pearl Jam's "Vs." Ever hear of Pearl Jam, Rob? This was the "· only album that I would have picked myself, for it is truly one of the year's best. 
I don't want to sound too harsh in criticizing the music critics' picks, but can you blame me? 
The one positive to come out of this fiasco is that neither list contains "Siamese Dream" by Smashing Pumpkins. Though it is one of the top ten albums of all time, die-hard Pumpkins 
(.t 
' 

fans~ including myself, would have been insulted if it had been put on these lists of truly inferior music. Thanks for not insulting me too much. 
Who is David Baerwald? 
SFAN SIRCHER 
Freshman 
Sarin Hall 

CORRECTION 
Th: ~;~:~-~ti~~,!":i!~~:\~'~i~~~~~
Cotter'sletter to tht{e~itqr yes~ t~nl~Y. sh~uld; bave'1read, .;Ta;:iehlngs of the O~Hhtary Magisterium can be Jlifallible on matt9rs o( faith and morals." The Observer regrets the error. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
.~ 
1 

"LATt lAST NIGHT, TH/5FfATUR& 
t;NT/3FflJ INTO AN.fJB?E:tMFNTP/171-1 'IAUJ<JN6 fOR. !He-AM!31<JCAN /JR&AM,' A 6f?OU?/ll3/}!CA7l3P TO 5Af&6UAR£JIN6 7H& IMA6t CF 
PROF&%CI< M!CifAt:/-/?, Mlt-n:N. '' 
"IN R&TURN FOR CASH ANO AN tQUilYRJSIT/Oiv IN A FUTU!<& Mlt.KW PROJ&G7, 7HIS FtATU/?13 Hfi?&BYPROMise& 7D NEV&I<. /16AIN RI()ICiJi.E PROF&SSOR Mlti<&N OR POI<T!<AY HIM IN AN UNFt.ATT&RJN6 U6HT.'' 
UM... 50 

''A 11 casual drug users
HOW /)() /Jit; POI?.TRAY... 
.l"'l.should be taken out and shot." 
-Daryl Gates Former L.A. Chief of Police 
---~------------------------------------------------------------~---­
page 16 The Observer • ETC. Friday, December 10, 1993 


lriday• 
ev.ts· 
"In the Line of Fire,.. Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:30 p.m.• $2. "Snow Whi~e and the Seven Dwarfs." Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 & 9:30 p.m., $2. Crack Ups Comedy Cafe, featuring Michael Finney and Mike Hessman, 9 to 11 p.m .• SMC Dining Hall, $2. ND Hockey vs. Lake Superior, 7 p.m., J.A.C.C. Fieldhouse. 
The Nutcracker, featuring South Bend Dance Theatre and South Bend Symphony Orchestra, 7 p.m. 
l .... 
Shenanigans' Annual Christmas Concert, 8 p.m .•. Washington Hall. free tickets at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Elwood Splinters Blues Band, Madison Oyster Bar. 10 p.m. 
satuPday 
vi. 

events 
"In the Line of Fire," Cushing Auditorium .. 8 & 10:30 p.m., $2. "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,'' Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 & 9:30 p.m .• $2. Christmas Movie Night. 9 p.m. to 3:15a.m.• LaFortune Ballroom, free admission. ND Women's Basketball vs. Seton Hall. 2 p.m .• J.A.C.C. Arena. 
I 
I 
'' ND Hockey vs. Ohio State, 7 p.m., J.A.C.C. Fieldhouse. The Nutcracker, South Bend Dance Theatre and South Bend Symphony Orchestra, 7 p.m. 
Bille 
Dreams of Flying, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, .. 9:30p.m. · jl I~ Tim O'Neill, Dalloway's Coffee House. SMC. 8 p.m. 
'· 
l 
I sunday
~ events 
I) 
ND Glee Club Christmas Concert, 7:30p.m., J.A.C.C. Basketball Dome. Tickets $2 at LaFortune or
f J.A.C.C. Box offices. The Nutcracker, South Bend Dance Theatre and South1 Bend Symphony Orchestra, 7 p.m.
( 
! 
movies 


University Park East 

Carli to's Way 7, 9:50 

( 
~-Remains of the Day 7, 9:55 Adams Family Values 7:30, 9:40 My Life 7:15, 9:40 
,. Geronimo 7:10, 9:30 A Dangerous Woman 7:15, 9:20 
University Park West 
~~ i ! ~ Perfect World 7. 9:45 
The Three Musketeers 7:15, 9:35 
I Nightmare Before Christmas 7:30, 9:20 
I 
I 

L-..-..... -·-·-·-· ..... -·-·------..-...-. --·-----... --------.. ------..----..--------..--.-­
ACOMPLETE GUIDE TO DALLAS: 
Don,t leave home without it 
Here we go again. taking that trip down south to Dallas. Texas. for the Cottm Bowl. At a time when many of us will be stuck three feet deep in snow. Dalla. will be a great. warm break. But before the airplane arrives. be sure you havj this handy-dandy "Guide to Dallas. •• 
Complete with restaurants. bars and general information. this guide will wipj that ~~yes rm a tourist, look offyour face. There's more to Dallas than the Cotton Bowl. Embrace what the city has to offe, and enjoy. 
Dakota is the gateway to the Distinctive New American Dallas Arts District downtown. Cuisine featuring fresh seafood,
Dining 
Valet parking. Reservations rec­pasta, choice-aged beef, and aAppletiee's Neighborhood 
ommended. splendid assortment of desserts. 
Grill and Bar The Filling Station Live piano music, friendly service Applebee's is a casual family 

Smart diners fuel up with a and a first-rate selection of
restaurant with friendly service "Texas Tune-up" at the Filling blended scotches have made
and reasonable prices. A full 
Station. This favorite restaurant Gershwin's "the place to be"menu is featured for both lunch is actually a converted 1920 ser­when in Dallas. 
and dinner, seven days a week, vice station. The Filling Station Hard Rock Cafe with brunch on Sundays until 3 offers a trip down memory lane. Located in the McKinney
p.m. Menu 
favorites r-----------------------.., Avenue Trolley
District, theinclude spicy 

Supreme Court ofbuffalo wings, 

SPORTS BARS 
Rock and Roll

sizzling steak 
The Silver Bullet 340-7282 
serves up

or chicken faji­
Milo Butter Fingers 368-9212 
Tennessee trucktas, hickory 

Dave & Buster's, Composite 353-0649 
stop food: burgers,

Dave & Buster's~ Walnut Hill 361-5553
roasted riblets, 
fries, the leg­

lockers 343-4570 Chris' Sports Club 691-8819
plus more. 
e n d a r yDaily happy "Tennessee Pulled

Shooters 373-8925
hour and food Pork" sandwichspecials. Five 
PUBS 
and desserts.

Dallas/Fort 
Cocky Crow Pub 521-2909 
Home to such

Worth loca­
D'Angelo's 827-8821 
famous rock andtions. 

' · . OW's Bar &Grill 350-8368 
roll memorabilia

Baby Doe's 
JJ's Pub & Grill · 352-6856 
as John's

Joe Miller's 521-2261
Matchless 
Lennon's Nehru

Knox Street Pub 526-9476
Mine 
jacket, Elton

louie's 824-4090
Enter the 
John's piano and

Meieval Inn Pub 363-1114
Victorian 
Mucky Duck, Welborn 522-7220 
the Texas Players

atmosphere of 
Mucky Duck. Beltline 239-6702 
Bar, the HRC is

the 1800 for a 
Outback Pub 761-9355 
the only home ofMatchless din­

Ozona 265-9105 
the famous Harding experience 

RC's 824-4090 
Rock merchan­and a breath­

San Francisco Rose 826-2020 
dise: SAVE THE

Sharky's, Greenville 361-5436
taking view of 
PlANET! Daily 11

Sharky's, Preston 713-0201 Stoneleigh 871-2346 
downtown 
-2 a.m., entrees

Dallas. A Dallas $5.95 and up. 
White Rock Billiards 324-1250
tradition in steaks, prime 
COMEDY 
Kathleen's Art

rib, and fresh 
Ad-Libs 754-7050 
Cafe

seafood. 
Backdoor Comedy Showcase 352-2599 
Voted Best Small 

Featuring Steve Harvey's Comedy Showcase 78Q-5677 
Restaurant, Best

lunch, dinner The Improvisation 75Q-5868 
Weekend Brunch

and a Sunday 
and Best Weekend brunch buffet. DANCE CLUBS 

Late-Nite by the

Fish Dance 828-BASS
Large party Dallas Morning
The lexington 528-1300
served with 
New York Northwest 368-4103 
News. Charming

reservations. 
intimate, as much

happy hour at home on New
Mon.-Fri., 4:30­York's West a it is
7:30 p.m. Price range for dinner Its worth a visit just to see the in Dallas, Kathleen's Art Cafe isis $12.95 to $18.95. 
old photographs, pumps, license this and more. Showcase for plates, gasoline signs and even important young artists,Dakota's original neon Mobil Flying Red Kathleen's is also home to teriflicRecognized nationally as one of Horse. Fill your tank with some Bistro food highlighting Regional the best restaurants in America. 
of the best fuel in Dallas. Big cuisine. All food is prepared
Dakota's offers the freshest 
screen TV with cable sporting from scratch. That plus theseafood, aged beef and wild 
events and free live entertain­attentive and courteous ser­
game grilled over a blend of 
ment five nights a week. Happy vice has been part of thenative Texas woods, as well 
as homemade hour from 4-7 p.m. Mon.-Fri. reason why this is one of
pastas. 

Open daily. Dallas most popular spots. 
breads and desserts. 
Gershwin's Open daily for breakfast,
Located 
Restaurant lunch and dinner_ 
b e l o w street level 
, . 
!.1 .. 
l 2. 
i • 
( ..
• 
~­
l..~. 
__, 

Friday, December 10, 1993 The Observer • ETC. page 17 

GATOR 

North Carolina (1G-2) vs. Alabama (8-3-1) All times Eastern Standard Dec. 31, 7:00p.m. (WTBS) 
LAS VEGAS ALAMO 
Ball State (8-2-1) Iowa (6-5) vs. Utah State (6-5) vs. California (8-4) Dec. 17, 8:00p.m. (ESPN) Dec. 31, 9:30p.m. (ESPN) 
JOHN HANCOCK HALL OF FAME 
Texas Tech (6-5) North Carolina State (7-4) vs. Oklahoma (8-3) vs. Michigan (7-4) Dec. 24, 2:30 p.m. (CBS) Jan. 1, 11:00 a.m. (ESPN) 
ALOHA CITRUS 
Colorado (7-3-1) Penn State (9-2) vs. Fresno State (8-3) vs. Tennessee(9-1-1) Dec. 25, 3:30p.m. (ABC) Jan. 1, 1 :00 p.m. (ABC) 
LIBERTY FIESTA 
Michigan State (6-5) Miami (9-2) vs. Louisville (8-3) vs. Arizona (9-2) Dec. 28, 8:00 p.m. (ESPN) Jan. 1, 1:00 p.m. (NBC) 
COPPER CAR QUEST 
Wyoming (8-3) Boston College (8-3) vs. Kansas State (8-2-1) vs. Virginia (7-4) Dec. 29, 8:00 p.m. (ESPN) Jan. 1, 1 :30 p.m. (CBS) 
HOLIDAY ROSE 
Brigham Young (6-5) UCLA (8-3) vs. Ohio State (9-1-1) vs. Wisconsin (9-1-1) Dec. 30, 8:00 p.m. (ESPN) Jan. 1, 4:30p.m. (ABC) 
FREEDOM COTTON 
Utah (7-5) vs. Texas A&M (1 o-1) Southern Cal (7-5) vs. Notre Dame (1G-1) Dec. 30, 9:00 p.m. (Raycom) Jan. 1, 4:30 p.m. (NBC) 
INDEPENDENCE ORANGE 
Virginia Tech (8-3) Florida State (11-1) vs. Indiana (8-3) vs. Nebraska (11-o) Dec. 3.1, 12:30 p.m. (ESPN) Jan. 1, 8:00 p.m. (NBC) 
PEACH SUGAR 
Kentucky (6-5) Florida (1 Q-2) vs. Clemson (8-3) vs. West Virginia (11-Q) Dec. 31,6:00 p.m. (ESPN) Jan. 1, 8:30 p.m. (ABC) 
Pierre's By The Lake some restaurant decors and best Reservations recommended. 



Pierres By The Lake is rated patio, Q Grille in Lakewood fea-Stoneleigh P BBQ one of the Top 10 Steak and tures imagina-..-----------------. Whether •Billy Blues Barbecue Bar and 5100 Beltline Seafood Restaurants in the tively prepared 
The Fashion in Dallas it be for a Grill •Cisco Grill 
United Sates. With an extensive American far ­
Contrary to popular sterotypes, burger, or a 2020 North Lamar 6630 Snider Plaza 
menu that includes only USDA grilled fresh fish, 
not everyone wears cowboy boots, drink, the •Riscky's Barbecue University Park 
Prime Beef and the freshest seafood and 
jeans and hats, although certainly Stoneleigh 1701 Market St., #104 Tex-Mex
seafood available. This is no chicken; create-
you will see plenty of western fash-P on Maple •Caliente Ranch Grill and 
Cajun

doubt a one of a kind restaurant your-own-pizzas; 
ion. In reality, there is no predomi-Avenue is 
•Camellia Cafe Cantina
in a one of a kind place. pasta; hearty sal­
nant "Dallas look." Comfortable and the place to 
6617 Snider Plaza 6881 Greenville Ave.
Romantic views of Bachman ads, soups, appe-casual, as well as elegant and styl-be· Read a 
University Park •Tejano Mexican Food 
Lake from all four dining roms. tizers, sandwich-ish can be seen in all parts of the c u r r e n t 
•Pappadeaux Seafood Kitchen Restaurant
Pierres reputation, professionally es and desserts; city, and often at the same time and magazinepolished waiters and succulent full bar• in the same place. on the 3520 Oak Lawn 
menu selections makes this American wine One factor in considering what to patio, or Home Cookin' restaurant a din­list; espresso and wear in Dallas is the weather. select tunes •Brownie's Restaurant ing pleasure one cappucino. Warm and humid air is prevalent. on the juke-5519 E. Grand will not want to . 650 North yet for fall, you may want to pre-box that is •Celebration, Inc. miss. Discover a col-pare for a variety of conditions. Fall known for 4503 W. Lovers Lane QGrille in orful canva.s of comes to Dallas in spurts; it may be its largeLakewood new Amencan 80 degrees one day and cooler the s e 1e c -MexicanNoted by the Cuisine at this next. t i o n s . 

•Pappasito's
Dallas Morning four star restau-L----------------' This 20 
CantinaNews as hav­rant. The culinary interpreta-year old establishment is open 723 S.
ing one of tions are both vibrant and dra-seven days a week. Live music CentralDallas' most matic. Experience these culinary can be heard on special occa­
hand -masterpieces in a relaxed sions. Open 11 -1 a.m. Mon.­Expressway casual atmosphere. Lunch or Thurs., and until 2 a.m. on Fri. at Belt Line dinner. Complimentary valet. and Sat. and noon midnight on 
Richardson Sun. 
•Tijuana Johnny'sOther speciality 2621 
cuisine McKinney Ave. 
--


110 W. Davis St. Texan 
•Texas Tumbleweed 14775 Midway Rd. 
City of Dallas Facts •Population: 1,013,550 
•Area: 378 square miles 
•Eighth 
largest city in the United States 

•Largest 
wholesale merchandise mart in the world 

•Third-largest 
film production center in the United States 

•Third-largest 
concentration of high tech industries in the United States 


·•Second-largest concentration of telecommunications industry in the United States 
•Number 
2 convention city in the United States 

•Top visitor destination in Texas 

•More 
restaurants per capita than New York City 

•More 
AAA Four Diamond Hotels than any city in the nation 

•More 
Shopping centers per capita then any city in the United States 


CC6,NT 
page 18 
Friday, December I 0, 1993 
Southold Theater 
•

recetves largest nun1ber of extras for ''Nutcracker'' in its 20 year 
•
extstence 

The Observer/Dave Hungeling 
Southold's cast for "The 
Nutcracker" includes members of 
the South Bend community of all 
ages. Three Notre Dame stu­
,....,_. dents are involved in the produc­~~~~ tion this year. 

T~E 
UTCRACkE BAllET 


By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Editor 
No holiday season would be complete with out carolers, egg nog or the classical perfor­mance of "The Nutcracker Ballet". In celebration of its 20th anniversary year, Southold Dance Theater will present five performances of the holiday classic on Dec. 10, 11 and 12 at Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Community involvement is a traditional feature of Southold's production. This year's produc­tion will feature the standard 17 member company and a record number 229 extras from the South Bend community ­three of which are Notre Dame students Chris Cavanaugh, Melinda Gradan and Marisa Traina. 
Cavanaugh, a native of South Bend, was involved with Southold Theater as a child. 
"It's something you grow to love," she said. "I stopped per­forming once I got to college, but I missed it too much and returned to the company last year." 
Cavanaugh said she's noticed changes since she started with the theater years ago. "The 
The Nutcracker performances 
..9re pn fo~.~t 7 p_,m.• Sat. and Sun. at 2 and 7 ·p.m. Tickets can be purchased at the Morris Civic Auditorium and O'Laughlin Auditorium. Prices are $19 for adults and $10 for children and seniors. The Sat. mantinee, performed to recorded music, is $14 and $8. "Student Rush" is Sun. night; prices will be $10 for all students. 
audience tends to be people who come year after year," she explained. "There are always some minor changes made for their (the audience's) benefit." 
Although the current Nutcracker is very much in the classical Russian tradition, Southold's first production of the ballet was presented, even 13 years ago, in a contempo­rary style. 
"We found that the audience really wants to see a classic, traditional Nutcracker and that is the ideal to which we aspire," said Bonnie Boilini Baxter. artistic director of the compa­ny. "But we also try to make the Nutcracker uniquely Southold's and every year we find ways to introduce new ideas into the production." 
Some new additions to this year's production include an all male Russian dance and a "new look" for Madame Bonbonaire and her little helpers, according Baxter. 
Another somewhat modern feature (initiated three years early) is that four of the five performances feature music by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. 
"Tchaikovsky's musical mas­terpiece is deserving of live music and the orchestra adds so much to the performance, both for the audience and the dancers." said Baxter. 
This year's show is a perfect reflection of the company's 20 successful years, according to Mary Hendriksen, vice-presi­dent of marketing. 
"We have worked hard since early September," she said. "We have been lucky to have a community such as South Bend supporting us." 
Principal sponsor for The Nutcracker is the South Bend Tribune. The production is also presented with the support of the Indiana Arts Commision and the National Endowment for the Arts. 


-.,. .. . . ~ # • ~ _... ~ •• • •• . ......,." .. " ....... ~ ....
0 

0 • • T .. ' ~ ~­
.p~g~ i9..•.. 
. 

The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, December 10, 1993 
Merry Christmas you bogus visionaries 
Dear Fathered-or "Edoc," as gentleman in witnessing for life; wouldn't it be responsible to 

your contemporaries in the 
but in that article dominating mention Cardinal Ratzinger'sEastern Province say, whenever 
the front page of Wednesday's warning, not too long ago, thatthey mention you: I hope you 
Father Robert Griffin Observer. you were saying con­far as the Church is concerned,will understand the pastoral 
siderably more than your the jury is still out on whether concern that motivate me to 
!Jeffers lo a Bonefy 9od prayers. You have every right those alleged visions are su­address you-with affection, 
to believe in visions originating pernatural in nature. Honestly,
respect, regret, and fear-so 
in Sundance country. You can Ed, as an expert on Our Lady,publicly in this Observer col­subscribe, if you want to, to pri­you must understand that ru­
umn. I'm not very bright or 
was proud to find your books dren of May who considered vate revelations in which the mors of her over making parlor 
courageous, and will wish a 
on the Holy Spirit on the that going to Novenas was more Blessed Mother is alleged to calls on earth are coming faster million times that I hadn't been shelves at Foyle's on Charing important than attending Mass; have said, "because of the sins than lottery tickets that don't so misguided as to put these Cross Road, London. of the world today, especially have a prayer. How can you
in his opinion, such Catholics
words on paper, but when you abortions, we are threatened trust the copy-catting that goesAt table at Corby Hall, I've represented the lunatic fringe.
are as visible as you were in often enjoyed your Irish wit. A The lunatic fringe gets bigger, with chastisement greater than on all around us, as one vision­Tuesday's paper, speaking au­few times, I have shrunk from I've noted the closer we get to any that the world has ever ary tells another how to playthoritatively about your beliefs the white heat of your Irish the end of the millennium. known... But isn't it ir­the crowd. 
that seem to me to be wishful temper when, in pieces you Maybe I take myself too responsible to promote private If the Blessed Mother ever 
thinking, I feel driven to show have written, you have let me seriously when I react as a revelations as though you your­said there are no sins which you my doubts, for my own 
feel the back of your hand. As a polemicist to experts who seem self were attesting to their can't be forgiven, but for abor­sake, and the sake of others as senior priest and scholar, you to distort the Catholic faith, credibility? When you tell stu­tion you must do penance all confused as I, a few of them 
are a brother in Christ whom I even when this pains co-reli­dents that the Blessed Mother your life," we could have a priests. would cherish having as a gionists whom it pains me to foresees a black future if abor­problem in rehabilitating the 
I ask you to be charitable, 

friend. I would hate to have the contradict. In my time as a free tions are allowed to continue, children who have had chil­
gentle, and patient, if you care students thinking that any kind lance, I have taken on-per­you might point out that the dren. It's so dangerous to trust to respond, so as not to crush Church's magisterium may hearsay from the Virgin as
of odium theologicum could haps not wisely, fairly, or ca­
the bruised reed. Believe it or come between us, making us pably-the head of the decide that such prophecies of though it were a guaranteednot, I work hard at my faith. unfriendly critics, or even en­Theology Department, when he doom have been coming from verity. Women who have under­
Your Catholic vision is obvious­
emies. I am not a theologian, bad-mouthed John Paul II; gay the minds of crazies who, if gone abortions deserve the ly richer than mine. Other the­nor would I wish to trespass on activists and gay bashers; they were not Catholics, might right to be walked back to love,ologians offer insights that the turf where you are so much women's liberation; the campus be telling the National Inquirer life, and laughter. Students 
would impoverish the Creed. As about space ships from Mars, don't seem to understand this
at home. Yet, as a campus Blacks, when I thought theyMary's priest, you expand the 
chaplain, I have a foothold on were on a witch hunt. But I landing in their back yards when they traumatize women Creed as though you were some turf, and you and I are of have never been tempted to I could never believe that the with guilt trips as though they'd spending your life bringing jew­Blessed Mother would try to be been caught red-handed, mur­
one heart, one mind in loving attack in print my own religious
els to the Madonna. Can you Mary as the mother of God, and Community or the Notre Dame a match for Jerry Falwell as a dering God; shoving crucifixes assure me that you're not more prophet of doom. Doesn't a in their faces as they'd do with
in hating abortion as a crime Food Service, since it is never
Catholic than the popes? I re­country which has gone trigger­vampires.
against life. wise to bite the hands that feed
member how proud I was as a But even in matters we you. happy over abortions shoot Ed, old mentor, am I wrong in young priest when you, already itself in the foot, so that pun­thinking that the greatest temp­
wholeheartedly agree on, Ed, I've picked on the Right-to-life 
important as a Catholic scholar, we have differences of opinion. group for joining hands with ishment coming from God tations Christians have is to fill gave me the last of my junior Maybe that's because you were Operation Rescue. The poor would be a redundancy?Ol' in the silences left by God? clergy exams. You flattered me a cradle Catholic, and I grew up dears can't understand that I Jerry Falwell only makes a fool Visionaries have been springing that day with the respect you as a Baptist, clinging to the old love them,though I'm opposed of himself as a Bible-thumper. out of the woodwork to tell us 
showed me as a confrere in rugged Cross. As a seminarian to the antics of Operation What would he make of Julia what God has on His mind. If Holy Cross. I would love to have studying theology at Holy Cross Rescue, which tend to make a Kim's statue that cries and any of them has earned the your respect now, though you bleeds for the repentance of attention and r.espect of the
College in Washington, I had mockery of civil disobedience;
probably think I haven't done those who have had abortions. magisterium, you should let us
Father Joe McCartney as my all that violence in the streetsmuch to deserve it. I admire spiritual director. Joe Mac, you leaves us losers, whether they If you want to quote what Our know. Merry Christmas, Father 
your insights into the may remember, was strongly know it or not. Lady has had to say about Edoc, the students, and all Charismatic Movement, and opinionated against those chil-Ed, you've always been a abortions at Medjugorje, bogus visionaries needing love. 


page 20 Friday, December 10, 1993
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
1 ! 
-( 
I 
~ 
t 
I 
I 
I 
1 ! -" 
l 
l 
j 
J 
l· 
I 
J 

1 
' 

-
.41 
(/) 

DOMINO'S 
0 ~ 
• 

z<C PIZZA 
:EN
• QN 271-0300 
1835 SOUTH BEND AVE 
• ca.
'Ill ® 


r-----------------, r-----------------, r-----------------, 
COUPON! !COUPON! COUPON! 
I I 

I I I CRUSIIER!
BREAD I I I 6-PACK 
DOMINOS PIZZA 
STIX I 
$1.99 WILL HONOR OUR 
$1.69 COMPETITORS' 
I 

SPECIALS AND . COUPONS AND 
GET AN ORDER OF GET A SIX PACK OF ICE BREAD STIX FOR 1.69 COLD COCA COLA OR WE'LL DELIVER IT WITH ANY PIZZA PUR-DIET COKE FOR ONLY IN 30MINSOR Cf.U\SE. ~CLlnDES 1.99 WITH ANY PIZZA 
LESS OR GIVE 
CHOICE OF DIPP~G PURCHASE. 
$3.00 OFF
SAUCE. 

VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY EXPIRES 12-31-93 EXPIRES 12-31-93 EXPIRES 12-31-93 
L-----------------~ L-----------------~ L-----------------~ 
-,..­
Friday, December 10, 1993 page 21
The Observer • NFL 
Steve Young explains secret to San Francisco's success 
By ED SHEARER 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Steve Young has a simple ex­planation for San Francisco's six-game winning streak. 
"We quit turning the ball over, the protection got better and I started throwing the ball more accurately." he said. 
"After six weeks or so, we·just decided to make our football more efficient," Young said. "We started preparing better. We knew we had been kind of kicking ourselves.'' 

The 49ers (9-3) will try to ex­tend their winning streak Sat­urday when they meet the At­lanta Falcons (5-7) in the sold out Georgia Dome (71,594) at 4 
p.m. EST. 
Young sits atop the league's quarterback rating list at 102.4 -the only player over the 100 mark. He has completed 243 of 352 passes for 3,058 yards and a league-high 22 touchdowns despite being hampered by an injured thumb on his (left) throwing hand. 
"Mentally I've finally gotten it 
out of my mind and gotten used 
to it," Young said of the injury. 
The 49ers haven't lost since 
two turnovers killed their 
chances in a 26-17 loss at Dal­. las on Oct. 17. 
"After that we started prepar­
ing better," Young said. "The 
whole team just started playing 
better. It's tough to beat us if 
we don't make those big 
turnovers." 
The 49ers beat the Falcons in 
September in a 37-30 shootout -San Francisco's third victory in a row in a series it leads 32­20-1. The Niners have won 15 of their last 19 meetings with the Falcons. 
Atlanta's loss came in the mid­dle of a five-game losing streak to start the season. The Falcons have turned their season around. winning five of seven since Deion Sanders finished his baseball season with the Braves and joined the team for the sixth game of the year. 
"Obviously Deion has helped them," Young said. "I also just see better team defense by the Falcons. They have a couple of different wrinkles that have been good for them.·' 
Young may be without one of his key offensive weapons. 
Running back Ricky Watters left last week's 21-8 victory over Cincinnati with a strained ligament in his right knee. 
"Watters is quite questionable or doubtful," coach George Seifert said. "I don't think he's going to play." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Typing 287-4082 
Professional Typing Dissertations, Term Papers Reasonable Rates 277-7406 

ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost a gold and pearl pin 
Between the Football Stadium and 
LaFortune via O'Shag and Neuwland Science. If found, please call631-5243. 
Found: a Casio graphing calculator in the student computer lab of Debartolo on Veteran's Day November 11. Call Jarrad x4186 
LOST: silver and gold women's watch lost somewhere between the south din­ing hall and LaFortune reward if found, call Beth at 2784 
LOST AT UNION STATION on Friday 12/3 Large man's topcoat: 
charcoaVblack;inside pocket reads "1 00% wool" or "1 00% wooVcashmere" and "Made in England" If found please call John x2073 
Found-Black Lord & Taylor men's overcoat & Honda keys at Union Station FAI night. Call 4-2071 
LOST: BLUE-GREEN LAND'S END JACKET at 801 St. Louis Mistakenly removed during swim­ming celebration sat. night. My GLASSES are in the pocket, and I need them. -Matt *1670 
HELP! I lost my dark blue back pack in the Huddle this weekend. Contains lots of important stuff for finals. If found, please call x4293. 
FOUND: MEN'S DIVERS WATCH WITH LEATHER BAND OUTSIDE O'SHAG WED BEFORE THANKS­GIVING BREAK 
CLAIRE 273-0926 
Lost: If you were at the formal at Union Station Friday night and accidentally took my full·length navy coat, please call me. The brand name began with "Brom" (Bromex, Bromack, or something like that). Alicia x4834 
247 Siegfried 
LOST AT UNION STATION Friday 1213, at Formal: Brown herringbone tweed sportscoat; folded formal ticket and paper in inner pocket; If you accidentally took it, please call. Brad x2041, 319 Stanford 
LOST AT UNION STATION Friday 1213, at Formal: Brown herringbone tweed sportscoat; folded formal ticket and paper in inner pocket; If you accidentally took it, please call. Brad x2041 , 319 Stanford 
LOST AT UNION STATION Friday 12/3, at Formal: Brown herringbone tweed sportscoat, 40L; folded formal ticket and paper in inner pocket; If you accidentally took it, please call. Brad x2041, 319 Stanford 

• ** *••*********** ••••• * •••••••••• 
LOST: Notre Dame Blue zipper pouch con· taining ID and room keys at the Debartolo Computer Lab on Monday night. If found please call, Veronica X4089 
••••••••••••••••••••••*••••* *** * ** 
I WANTED 
..______________. 
Travel Abroad and Work. Make up 
to $2000-$4000+/mo. teaching 
basic conversational English 
abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. 
Korea. Many employers provide 
room & board + other benefits. No 
teaching background or Asian lan­
guages required. For more informa­
tion call: (206)632·1146 ext. J5584 
NANNY:ND/SMC grads needs stu­
dent for 2 children, Granger 
home,Tu-Thur 2:15­
7pm.References,271-1645. 
WANTED 

Need ride to Pittsburgh Sat. 11/1 B 
after 4 PM. Will pay. Call John @ 
x3623 

need passenger to atlanta on fri. 
12117 call sean x1057 
Ho! Ho! Ho! I Need a ride to 
Minnesota (Minn.-Prior Lake area) 
for Christmas break. very friendly, 
like to drive, do not bite... usually. 
Help with tolls, gas, etc. Please call 
Kory X 3040 
need ride to kc for xmas brian 1 078 
I NEED RIDE TO PHIUSJ 
KEV x1103 
NEED A RIDE? DRIVING TO CEN­
TRAL PA ON DEC 19. CHRIS 
X1654 

NEED SOMEONE TO DRIVE 
PART OF A COMPUTER TO BOSTON I EAST MASS. AREA WILL PAY FOR ITS AIDE CALL SEAN X1 882 
STILL LOOKING FOR MALE & 
FEMALE MODELS TO PUT ON POSTERS & CALENDARS. FOR INFO., PLEASE CALL 271-1371. 
BEACH Springbreak Promoter. Small or large groups. FREE trips and CASH. Call CMI 1·800-423­5264. 
Need rides to MINNEAPOLIS after 
4:00 Sat. 18. Please call 3486 
NEED A RIDE TO LONG ISLAND FOR XMAS BREAK CALL SEAN AT 299-1307 
Needed: ride to O'Hare 12/18 and/or 1/9. X1305 Scott 
NEED A RIDE TO D.C. WILL HELP WITH GAS AND TOLLS. PLEASE CALL EMILY AT 634-2856 
i need a ride to milwaukee for x-mas dec. 18. will pay gas and tolls julie x2741 
Help!! Need a RIDE to Philly/NJ area for X-mas on Dec. 17. Will pay $$ Call Meaghan at x2773. 
Need a Aide? Going to Philly/NJ area on Dec. 17. Call Meg x2773 
STILL WANTED ...... . I desperately need a ride home to Connecticut or Western Mass. or anywhere remotely close for Christmas. I can drive manual and will help with any expenses. Please call Chris at x4-1069. 
CAMP THUNDERBIRD Camp Counselors Needed 
Resident Summer Camp for Developmentally Disabled Children & Adults. 
June 18-Aug 26 
Orlando, FL area 1·407 -889-8088 

Need Passenger to Northern New Jersey on early Fri. 12117. Call Ed x 1462 
FOR RENT 
Clean, safe Apt. Near NO 755 South Bend Ave furnished 
1 bedrm-240, efficiency-215, 607 E. Corby-2bdrm $330 
519 E. Corby·2bdrm $2BO+heat drive by, call for appt. deposit, references 1 -800·582·9320 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272·0615. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291·7153 
ROOMMATE NEEDED Spr. Sem. Trtle Crk Twnhs 271·1399 
2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES NEAR NO AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YA 232-2595 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: Cool beaded earings, necklaces, and bracelets all at high­ly reasonable prices. Great Christmas gifts! Call Jessica at 4­2963 
Fly round trip from Midway to Los Angeles during Christmas Break for 2. Call 259-1086 
For Sale: big back pack for travel abroad, only used 1 semester. x1318 
ford scort 85, best ofert, 273 4028 
BROTHER WOAD PROCESSOR/TYPEWRITER WP­3410. VERY LITTLE USE. CALL 631·3023. 
LADIES NO MINI RING SAPPHIRE 10K $250 273-2725 
FOR SALE Plane ticket: S.Bend to lslip,NY on 12/17 callx2383 
****AIRPLANE TICKET FOR SALE •••••••••••• 
I am selling a one-way ticket that leaves Saturday, 12/18, from South Bend to Denver, Colorado. My mother paid $202 for it, so that's what I'm asking. Call Colleen at x2702. 
FOR SALE: 2 piece sofa kitchen table &chairs entertainment center free 19" color TV to anyone who buys all CHEAP! John 277-4953 will return calls 
TICKETS 

Notre Dame Bowl Tickets For Sale (317} 879-8497 
Selling one way plane ticket from O'Hare to Philadelphia International, for 12/18. Call Dave at x2508. 

PERSONAL 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK INVITES ALL STU­DENTS, GRAD STUDENTS, LAW STUDENTS TO ITS FIRST STU­DENT/ALUMNI GET-TOGETHER ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1993 AT 6:00PM AT REIDY'S REST AU RANT 22 East 54th Street, New York NY. For info call Carey 
Lamont (212)848-7351 or Monique Headley (914)251-8669 
MARCH FOR LIFE FRIDAY, January 21 DC TRIP If interested call NO Right to Life 631-9006 
G'day NDA-PORT LODGERS OF SPRING '93: COTTOSLOE? NOlA­But don't forget Dec. 10th. You know where, bring a present take the keys-you're fine to drive. 
Julie and Tom long to adopt your infant into our loving New England home. Your child will grow up in a happy home near great schools, parks and beaches. Call collect any· time (508)535-3718. Easy to talk to. 
KEVIN Are you feeling thirsty after your long Christmas quest? Just peek in your fridge and you'll find what you love best. 
Stay in your room and you'll see the end is coming, You'll find 10 fingers playing, not 10 drummers drumming. 
Kristi M. Merry-XmasS the Girinch 
Excuse me ... Excuse mel!! 
Is it time to get up now? 
Happy 21st Mark! 
Happy Holidays to all!!!!!! 

THE DANCE COLLECTIVE WILL BE SELLING COOKIE GRAMS FOR $1 IN BOTH DINING HALLS DURING LUNCH AND DINNER ON WED. DEC 8TH AND FRI. DEC 10TH SEND ONE TO A FRIEND!!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ZACK!!! Love, Em and Hill 

Don't miss the specials this week­end at Dave Cary's Irish Dillon Hall!! 
WANTED: Someone to type my ten-page term paper, preferably one who can type at least two pages per hour. An innie belly button is a plus!! John 
Robin Dusek likes top scratch and sniff big packages!! 
Hey Ron, BITE MEl 
••• JAPANESE ANIMATION ••• MARATHON 

FROM 7pm • 1 am TONIGHT IN 
Montgomery Theatre (LaFortune) 
ITS FREE &ALL ARE WELCOME 
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS!!!! 

WORRIED ABOUT GETTING ROBBED OVER X-MAS BREAK?? 
BRING YOUR VALUABLES TO THE CAMPUS SECURITY ON FAI· DAY, DEC. 17th. STORAGE IS FREE. GO TO THE TRAINING ROOM FROM 10 am -2 pm or 4pm to 6 pm. YOU CAN PICK UP YOUR VALUABLE ON WEDNES­DAY JAN. 12th FROM 12· 2 pm or 2-4 pm. 
STORAGE IS FREE!!!I!III 

************************************ MERRY CHRISTMAS, SHIRLEY!!! ******••••··························· 
May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored, glorified, loved and pre· served throughout the world now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus have mercy on us. St. Jude worker of miracles pray for us. St. Jude helper of the hopeless pray for us. 
J.B. 
Quality Copies, Quickly 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 631-COPY 

ADOPTION: NO grad and wife, hap­pily married for eight years, wish to adopt a baby. We offer a warm,lov· ing home with kindness and patience from a full-time mom and devoted dad. Please call Wendy and nm at 1-800·440-8588 anytime 
Win a trip to Cancun! Look for details and entry blanks in the coupon section of your new University Telephone Directory. Directories are available now at Student Activities in Lafortune. 
LOVING COUPLE HOPING TO ADOPT "If you're looking for a home to bring your precious baby to, we've been waiting very long for a miracle like you." Childless couple dream of loving your baby. Notre Dame grads, lawyer dad, future full­time mom, cozy home where wish· es come true, friendly suburb with children, relatives nearby. Medical, legal, counseling, court approved living exp. paid. Confidential. Call our attorney: (708)957-6833. 
NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS CONCERT Sunday, December 12 
7:30 PM in the J.A.C.C. All Tickets are $2 NOW AVAILABLE at LaFortune Information Desk 
AIDE HOME NEEDED-Is anyone going home for Christmas to EAST­ERN MASSACHUSETTS or RHODE ISLAND that has a spot in their car for me? Will help with tolls, gas, and can drive a stick ... Thanks, Tara #4975 
Need a ride to D.C. for Break Will help with gas and driving call Kathleen x4241 
Sports Info Top 10 Quotes: 1o. What is up? 
9. Kathy what the hell are you doing? 
8. Who ARE you? 
7. That's not a punishment, it's a reward 
6. If I get fired, the Heisman's com­ing w/ me 
5. I never wear cologne 
4. Connors down and dirty on the floor 
3. Are you going to stop for that or no? 
2. The gayness continues ..• 
1. Did ROSE tell you to do that? 
What would you do if Prof. Wickham came through the door carrying buckets of KFC and rolling in a keg? 
TOP 10 GNP QUOTES, FALL93 10.Would u lick the nipples of a baldheaded bohemian banshee while singing the lyrics 2 cumbaya? 
9.1 am the epitome of exercise. 8.Hey baby, throw me a strike so I can hit it I 7.Now I know I'm cold·l'm nippling. 6.Let me give u something 2 chew on. 
5. Have you seen the twins? 4.11ay low at this university. 3.1t feels so good 2 run naked through the waves! 2.Wow, that was orgasmic! 1.Hey, I got your CO's; C--OEEZ NUUUTZ 
MERRY CHRISTMAS TO THE 
BEST FAMILY A BROTHER COULD HAVE! THE NEXT THREE 
YEARS BELONG TO US. -HOA· MONE, GNP 
SPIDEAMAN -QUIT ANSWER­ING MY PHONEI!!I 

Houston wins again, improves to 18-1 

Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Mario Elie scored 17 of his season-high 25 points in the fourth quarter and overtime, leading Houston over Miami for a franchise-best 18-1 record. 
Vernon Maxwell sank a des­peration 30-footer as regulation ended to send the game into 
\ overtime. The New York Knicks j i 
started 23-1 in 1969 and
l! Portland was 19-1 in 1990. ( The Rockets responded to the second chance by opening over­time with nine straight points and a 110-101 lead with 2:11 left. A pair of free throws by John Salley and one by Steve Smith closed the Heat to 110-104 be­fore Hakeem Olajuwon and Elie combined for five free throws to seal the victory. Glen Rice led Miami with a season-high 40 points, the most scored against Houston this season. The Rockets, now 9-0 at home with their eighth straight victory over Miami, got 28 points and 16 rebounds from Olajuwon. Otis Thorpe scored 23 points. 

Q

au a a a ! a 3 & a a & 
Friday, December 10, 1993

page 22 The Observer • NBA 

Suns 114 Bullets 95 

PHOENIX 
Charles Barkley scored 15 of his 22 points in the first quar­ter, and Kevin Johnson set a team record with 10 steals as Phoenix coasted past Washing­ton. 
The Suns, who improved to 7­0 at home, came within one of a 16-year-old franchise record with 22 steals. 
Johnson had 17 points and 13 assists in addition to his 10 steals, the best in the NBA this season~ He broke a mark of nine that Johnny High set 
AP File Photo

against Washington on Jan. 28, 
Otis Thorpe scored 23 points in Houston's win over Miami Thursday. 
1981. 

:::~ ' :
1:
r . .. 
' 
:-·. . 

t ~ ":
ll
_..•..~ ,. ·-. -. -----~ 
* * * E·Z HOLD * * * 
PORTABLE DINNERWARE SET 
SIXTEEN PIECE SERVICE FOR 4 WITH AN OFFICIAL TOTEBAG 
SuperSonics 125 Mavericks 93 
DALlAS 
Gary Payton, Kendall Gill and Ricky Pierce scored eight points each during a 37-18 second­quarter surge that gave Seattle an easy victory over Dallas, the Mavericks' 14th consecutive defeat. 
Gill finished with 23 points, Payton 22 and Pierce 20 for the SuperSonics, who have won six consecutive games and are 16­1 overall. 
Seattle coach George Karl went to a small lineup early in the second quarter, and the Sonics forced nine turnovers in the period. Seattle converted 15 of 20 shots in the quarter to lead 61-45 at halftime. 
The Sonics expanded their 16­point halftime lead to 95-71 af­ter three quarters. 
The Mavericks, who got 20 points each from Derek Harper and Jim Jackson, fell to 1-17, the worst record in the NBA and 0-9 at home. Jamal Mash­burn, the Mavericks' No. 1 draft choice and top scorer, went 1­for-9 from the field and finished with two points. 


Congratulations and Good Luck 
EDIC ~IJLI 
from the 3rd floor Disciples and the &0rin Colle8e liou~ of &ilk fan Club 
LONG 1Ivt THE HOU~E Of C)I1KJ 


I ' 

'/ 
WHILE VISITING CHICAGO COME SEE THE ONE PLAY THAT NO COLLEGE STUDENT OR PROFESSOR CAN AFFORD TO MISS. 
.J 
lJ j 
.i t 
I I 
I , 
THE PLAY THAT HAS ALL OF AMERICA TALKING! I·:
) : 
SPECIAL STUDENT RUSH PRICE!
i 
I I j ' 
PRESENT STUDENT I.D. AT BOX OFFICE ONE HOUR 112 BEFORE THE SHOW AND RECEIVE TICKETS FOR HALF-PRICE!
; i 
SUBJECT ro AV~t~~51,\T'f 
I 
i 
TO ORDER TICKETS CALL 
THE WELLINGTON THEATER 
~ J 
': 
312.975.7171 
~~-.... ==~ 312.902.1500 • GROUP SALES 312.573.0050 
\ . 



~ 
( ;. 
I t 
ORDER TODAY! 
Handle Your Meal 
Like An All-AMERICAN! 
Held like an artist's palette, the FIGHTING IRISH E-Z Hold Plate eliminates the need lor a table. Your plate Is your table I The Ideal way to support the IRISH all year round! 
" Tailgating ~ Watching TV " Barbecues ~Buffet 'Picnics "'Camping " On the Boat ' At the Beach 
CALL 1-800-t,32-11882 
NAME _____________________________________ ADDRESS __________________________________ 
CITY  STATE  ZIP______  
PHONE (  )  PLEASE SEND #  SETS  
VISAIMASTERCARotl  I I i  I  j  I I I i  !  :  I !  i  I IEXP DATE I I I I I  

SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER SAVE 25%, REGULARLY $39.95. NOW ONLY $29.95 EACH, PLUS $4.50 EACH FOR SHIPPING AND HANDLING. SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO: CHAMPION SPORTS !eni{tJo:·"'-~11~trtl (}~ll."'tteOKI MICROWAVEABLE &
PO BOX 1507 .,rrYfJI:<J• ' .,'7'' DISHWASHER SAFE ARLINGTON, TX 7&004 t'~tc atilete.r~ dHI" 15J""t/ MADE IN THE USA 

Friday, December 10, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
,_

Through good times and bad times, Devine endures 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, Mo. 

The end of Dan Devine's sec­ond tenure at Missouri is draw­ing near, and names from his storied past have been lining up in homage. · 
"It would have been so easy for him just to retire and take life easy," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said at a fund-raising tribute for Devine last week in St. Louis. "He made the supreme sacrifice for some­thing he believed in and did so unselfishly." 
Charlie Brown, a running back at Missouri from 1964-66 who's now assistant superintendent of schools in St. Loui~. said Devine had been "like a father." 
"Everything in my career, everything that I am and what I stood for, in addition to those values I learned from my fami-
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


COMING SOON... 

IL ORRISSEV '1¥ 


Watch For Details After Christmas Break Remember, It's Not Just For Film Majors 
ly, came from Dan Devine," Brown said. 
But it's not all sweetness. As the former Notre Dame coach winds up a 1 1/2-year return engagement as athletic director at Missouri that ends on Feb. 1, he's taken some big hits. 
First, that he hedged on the future of football coach Bob Stull. It was widely assumed Stull would be fired after com­piling a 15-38-2 record in five seasons. Instead, Devine made him assistant athletic director. 
He's also been criticized for leaning too heavily on candi­dates with Missouri ties in his searches for a new coach and athletic director. 
Most of the coaching candi­dates whose names have sur­faced, including Vince Tobin and Merv Johnson, have ties to the school. As for the A.D. posi­tion, there's associate A.D. Joe Castiglione, Missouri broadcast­
. 

Happy 
Birthday, 
®~~~~~~ 
Love, 
Monica 
.•. another CbristiDas gift to take home ..• 
WISDOM OF THE CELTIC SAINTS Edward C. Sellner 


The lives and legacies of twenty Celtic saints of the 6th to 9th centuries-Patrick, Brendan, Brigit and others, presenting their wisdom in a way that can be appreciated by contemporary readers. 
208 pages, $10.95 
Available at 
er Kellen Winslow, and former St. Louis Cardinals quarterback Jim Hart, athletic director at Southern Illinois-Carbondale. 
The whispers go like this: 
-Devine, who's revered at Missouri, is still basking in the 1960s when he was one of the most successful coaches in the country. 
Glory, yes: He was 93-37-7 from 1958-70 with the Tigers, taking them to six bowl games. The 1960 team is the only one in school history to have been ranked No. 1, and he took Missouri to its last Orange Bowl in 1969. 
Relevant, no: He isn't mindful of the fact that those days are gone, that Missouri hasn't had a winning season since 1983, and that maybe radical change is what's needed. 
-Then, more cruelly, that Devine can't keep pace. He's 68, after all, and he's allowed Castiglione to handle day-to­day operations of the athletic department, concentrating on fund-raising. 
As if all of that weren't bad enough, he also took a bit of a beating on the silver screen. A few months ago, the makers of the movie "Rudy" arranged for a private screening in Columbia. Devine was shocked to see how he was portrayed. 
"I had given written and ver­bal permission to paint me as a heavy or the film would have never gotten off the ground," Devine said. "I just didn't envi­sion that they would distort the truth as much as they did. Nothing about me in the movie 

• Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information As he nears the end of his second tenure at Missouri, Dan Devine's admirers and detractors remember his career. 
is really accurate_." 
His supporters say that's also the case with perceptions of Devine. Missouri chancellor Charles Kiesler said he's found him far from the sterotypical football jock, calling him "astonishingly" well-read about other subjects. 
"A little over a year ago I inherited Dan Devine and I knew of his reputation for integrity," Missouri chancellor Charles Kiesler said. "I expect­ed to like him a great deal and that has happened. ~ 
"He's sort of an ambassador for Missouri athletics, but he's an even better ambassador for Missouri academics." 
Devine has heard all of the criticism, and he wants it known he's not just another old warhorse hanging on to tri­umphs like the national cham­pionship he won for Notre Dame in 1977. 
On Stull, he told hundreds of Missouri backers at the tribute dinner: "Five years from now, and this is a fact, people all over the United States will say that was the greatest move ever made." 
On the coach search: ''I'm not God, I'm going to make mis­takes. But I can't make a mis­take on a new football coach, so don't worry about that. We're going to get the best guy we can get, I can promise you that." 
Devine says he often gets the urge to pick up the coach's whistle again and never has 
any doubts that his ability remains intact. 
"I feel I could do a good job," Devine said. "I really feel like the game hasn't gotten away from me." 
Part of that wistfulness is because he left coaching early. Devine retired after the 1980 Sugar Bowl and moved to Arizona because his wife, Jo, suffers from multiple sclerosis. 
"The first couple of years I was out I got quite a few job offers," Devine said. "My wife is doing great. But that reason still exists." 
In lieu of the real thing, he's developed close relationships wherever he's been, be it Darryl Rogers and John Cooper at Arizona State, or Stull at Missouri. Two days after Stull was relieved of his coaching duties, he spoke glowingly at the Devine tribute in St. Louis of his boss' ability to unify alumni in St. Louis, Kansas City and Columbia. 
''I've talked to the players and been with the players and coaches and consider them­selves my friend and I think they consider me their friend," Devine said. 
Although his time at the top is coming to a close, he'll get a chance to develop another close relationship with the man he chooses to succeed Stull. Devine is staying with the school as a special assistant for athletic development at least until June 30, 1995. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Don't Drink and 
Drive J 


r: 
-;;; 
---~-. ~-----------­
l 
; ! :\ 
page 24 

._, 'I 
ll .I 
':"­
~ 
l
!. 
·,• 
,j 
Associated Pr=. II 

i i I' 
HOUSTON. 
Au~~rn's TerryBowd43n isa

young 'coach.who·_respects old :I coaches. I~ Bowden, 37, led Auburn to 
.: 
an lt..o record in his first 
~~ 
. year as bead <coach~ On1! Thursday he beat out his­
'·j-, 
.. father, Florida State's Bobby '.! Bowden, along with Ohio 'I State~s John Cooper and
:t 
Kansas State~s Bill Snyd~r for
it 
the Bryant Award as th~ col· .l~ge footb~n-ega~~ Q(-the. 
1 
year. 
I ••They ~aid wbei1, I came to
' 
,, . Auburn that I wouJd be .a new age cqach. htJllU.ever wanted to be ane~ age coach;' Bow.­I· . dep s~tti.· ·~lwan~d ~9.icoa~h
l 
lik~ tne. ()}d coaches who
' 
I 
4~"\Jg~t. Jn.,tl abovt COfllit}it.o
I 
I 
.•ffieri~Pba.rd wor~ .. and··pl~ying 
With pain; . :. ':}\[it . M)i~~-a~G9PtthiS·a~~--u for a·'lq~ !'of_ ,C()~gbr~ 4:)Ut•• t~ere whq . .want;,\o<··--·~.~---·•····ol~. co~~he$ 



..._,e·_u_ urn program Jl year :ago with the schoolon proba.i
tto"l;rtit:;.N'CAA.• rule~ viola;­
"uoffi;:;..... r · ·-· -.· · ·· · · , . 
._:_•_.:__._._::__ :_.:_•.._._.•.•.·._::~_::,_._:::_.:.•_..•·.-.'.-·=.·.··.···.·:_._:::. .. :.•_'.-'_.:_·.· ...·.·.•_=:_::_:.::: ·-:-.' ·. -,.·: ,',':; :,:, .:-: :;.:::::::: ;:;.;, ..--.·-_: /

.::.·.-~.·.·;_·.-·.:}.·•.==.-~.==.··_::.::_·.:.•_•_}_'.-' :,., .-.;-:,.-. ·::>., -;_,:}:~~~:=~=~=:tmw:;:t;::::::~:i::~==~:~t::=::·=:::=?=:--: =:·:=:-:::·::::=::-===-:~~=;~~=~;~~w:r=i~=~~;:::;:;n:::: ::-::·:::·:::::u::\r:::·::_.:-··: 
·-·-· Tbe"''Tig;;~ nni$ti~d 5Js:iiin. ·l9~:?.;,!J.~~-~p.plQ,••·l1av.~xP~~~--­

plea.Sed·witijmod,~st·improve::·-: 
·mtjntf •... ··< _. >:+ ...·.·. }· ._ ....._..··.. 
,, 
·~~su;;Win$.Would have .bee~
" 
an J!#pro:x~mept for u's. 0 rrerr'y. Bo'Wdent~a.;q.J. ~rwe. ··. 
didn't get caughttJP in·that -~(l,fllt,.jn thee. SEl~~()U Wfl.til be,beat Florida· (seventh game}. Then we got caught upinlt,'' · The Bowdens were the_ cen+ 
·te_r of attractionand they made a good standup. team, alternately jostJil1g and prais~ ing each Qther, · · 
Pappa Bowden said he told 
I 
. his so.n during the dinner: ·~There are a lot of good coaches in this room but one less than you think.•• " 
' I 
' 
~ 
I· 
~1ARIGOLD
i 
:V1ARKET 

I I; -' 
' 

lET U.S PREPARE. You:­TAIL6ATE PICNIC. SO YOu CAN ENJOy THE 6AtVt E! 
GRAPE. --tCLEVELAND 27'2·1922 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Volleyball 
continued from page 32 

figures in kills, led by junior outside hitter Christy Peters, who registered a match-high 25 to go along with 21 digs. 
However, as has been the key to Notre Dame's success all season, Peters supporting cast was up to the task as well. Senior middle blocker Molly Stark added 17 kills and was a presence defensively with 5 total blocks. She also got help 
Friday, December 10, 1993 
in the middle from senior co­captain Julie Harris, who had a career high 13 kills. 
The Irish also got strong per­formances from the hitters opposite Peters, as junior Nicole Coates notched 14 kills and a team-high 26 digs, while freshman Jenny Birkner added another 14 kills. 
The diversified Notre Dame offense is the result of another solid game at setter by senior co-captain Janelle Karlan, who amassed 78 assists. 
Notre Dame will meet Penn State tonight with a berth in the Final Four on the line. 

Wishing you a good one on your 21st, 
IErrillk~~ 
Love, Mom, Dad, & Erin 

The Observer/Jake Peters Christy Peters had 25 kins to lead Notre Dame past Minnesota. 
Friday, December 10, 1993 The Observer •MEN'S BASKETBALL 
usc 
continued from page 32 
opening games slowly this season. "We need to keep their guards under control and keep them off the boards." 
"USC is really aggressive," Taylor said. "They really attack the glass, so we'll have to make sure we keep them off the of­fensive boards." 
Lorenzo Orr, a 6-7 junior for­ward, leads USC in points and rebounds this season with an average of 18.5 points and 7.8 rebounds per game. The All­American candidate is shooting 
63.6 percent from the field while also leading the Trojans in steals and blocks. · 
"He's putting up really im­pressive numbers," said Taylor, "so we're going to have to pay a lot of attention to him." 
The Observerrr.J. Harris 
Sophomore Ryan Hoover is Notre Dame's second leading scorer with 14 points per game. "There's no doubt in my mind we can keep him under con­trol," said Williams, who will likely be covering Orr. ·'I'm not worried about that at all." 
Trojan co-captain Mark Boyd, a 6-7 forward, trails Orr in both 

CONGRATULATIONS M([)) JRIPt[£ £ IEY UlAN([))JR 1993 J.:J{. !footba[[ Cliamps ** * ** * * * * * * * Studs, Thanks for a Great Football Season! Stanford Hall  


The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus " Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Santa and Mrs. Claus Will Be Visiting 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
On Wednesday December 15th From 3-5 p.m. Storytime From 3:30 -4:00 
page 25 

scoring and rebounding with averages of 14.8 points and five rebounds per games. Boyd is shooting 65.5 percent from the field. 
Starting at guard, 5-10 sophomore Burt Harris is aver­aging 13 points and 3.8 assists per game. Brandon Martin, a 6­4 sophomore, carries the other half of the backcourt while averaging 10 points per game. 
Williams, who scored 13 of Notre Dame's rrrst 15 points in a loss to Indiana earlier this week, has been carrying the Irish season while averaging just under 31 points per game. 
Sophomore guard Ryan Hoover leads the backcourt while averaging 14 points per game. 
Notre Dame will face off with Arizona in the rrrst round of the Maui Classic on December 21. Other teams competing in the double elimination tournament include Kentucky, Ohio State, Tennessee Tech, and host team Chaminade. 
Following the Classic, the Irish will play three games over break-at home on January 2 against Fordham and away on January 6 and 8 against Ken­tucky and LaSalle, respectively. 

FINALLY LEGAL! 
Happy 21st Birthday 
N~1Dl~y2 
Love, 
Brett 


~­
page 26 The Observer • COLLEGE BASKETBALL Friday, December 10, 1993 
Michigan hopes experience can defeat Duke 

Associated Press ed," Duke's Grant Hill said. "Anytime Duke and Michigan get together, it's an ANN ARBOR, Mich. exciting, hard-fought game. We're 
December 1991. The defending nation­ready. They're ready." al champion Duke Blue Devils come to This year, the leading characters have Ann Arbor's Crisler Arena to teach a changed. Christian Laettner, Bobby group of five brash freshmen from Hurley and Chris Webber now display Michigan a basketball lesson. their talents on the bigger stage of the 
Even though the Blue Devils won, it NBA. was the freshmen who earned the The new stars are a pair of 6-foot-8 respect and admiration of a nation. swingmen-Hill and Michigan's Jalen 
The teams have since met two more Rose. times, but the results haven't changed. Replacing Webber in the lineup for Duke's experience has outlasted Michigan is point guard Dugan Fife. Fife Michigan's talent. h·as done an effective job running the 
On Saturday, the scene switches back show for Michigan averaging seven to Ann Arbor where No. 3 Michigan (5-points and has 12 assists to his eight 
0) hosts No. 4 Duke (4-0). This time it's turnovers. the Wolverines who are the veteran But Rose has been the player who has team. replaced Webber's impact on the court. 
"Our experience is a credit not a liabil­Rose is averaging 23.2 points and 7.6 ity," coach Steve Fisher said. "What rebounds thus far. used to be our strengths -height and "I think he is such a multi-dimensional size -are now our weaknesses." and talented player," Duke coach Mike 
Fisher and the Wolverines hope they Krzyzewski said. "He is looking for his can parlay the experience factor into a shot more which has made their team victory. better. He's the key to their team." 
"It bothers us a lot that Duke is the While the Wolverines have kept the only team we haven't beaten," Michigan same lineup all year, the Blue Devils center Juwan Howard said. "I hope have started four different quintets in Saturday will be the first." their four games. 
Howard, who missed Michigan's game Monday against Detroit-Mercy with a "We are still struggling to find an iden­strained right Achilles tendon, is ex­tity," Hill said. "We showed it pretty pected to start on Saturday. well vs. Xavier, but Michigan is going to 
"Like the rest of the team, I'm excit-be a good test for us." 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~·~~~~~~~~~··~~~~~~·~~~~~·~ 
~The Management of Building Services would like to wish all of the Building~ ~ Services team a very Merry Christmas and a prosperous New Year! t 
~ Michael Adamek Reginald Glon Rebecca Luckowski Julie Scott ~ 
~ Anselmo Alonso Dorothy Grenert Wayne Mack Jack Shanton ~ 
~ Pauline Alvarez Mary Griesinger Rooert Maenhout Nancy Sherwood ~ 
~ Thomas Anthony Annette Grooms Deborah Malicki James Sholty ~ 
~ Maxine Appleby Charles Grove David Mannen Dale Shorter ~ 
~ Nancy Balderas Ellen Gunn Herminia Martinez Henrietta Shuamber ~ 
~ Mary Balog Sandra Hairston Florida Maxwell Thomas Shuamber ~ 
~ Bertha Barrozo Mary Hall Lorene Maxwell Joan Sikorski ~ 
~ Stella Batson Sylv1a Hand Sonja McCaster Betty Singer ~ 
~ Kathy Beasley Daniel Handley Dolores McDonald Diana Singleton ~ Charles Bell Robert Harris Tillie McDonald James Smith ~ 
'.I
J.l 2 Wanda Benjamin Patti Hayden Dorothy McGiown Martha Smith AI . · P LouAnn Bestle Mary Heller Patricia Medders Ida Smoot ~2 Gerald Bickel Jeanne Hendricks Penny Medina Donald Sopczynski ~ 
1) · P Mary Black Barbara Henry Francisco Mercado Francis Sousley ~2 Michelle Bocardo Judith Higbee Jack Mesaros Jeffrey Sparks ~ P Carl Borsch Hue Hoang Norma Michael Richard Spenner ~ ~ Barbara Bour Irwin Hodgetts Shirley Miller Jozefa Steininger ~ ~ Collene Brady Kelli Hoke Rosie Mitchell Kathleen Stopczynski ~ ~ Diane Breun Mona Holdeman Curry Montague Billie Strom ~ ~ Cathy Brewer Harvey Holmes Duerell Montague Norma Swanson ~ ~ Mam1e Briscoe Carol Horton Phyllis Mortak1s Michael Swartz ~· ~ Arnetta Brock Helen Horvath Theresa Moskwinski Margaret Szalay ~ ~ Suzanne Brzezinski Marie Hough Dale Moss Walter Taberski ~ ~ Lucille Budny Helen Hubfer Lillian Murphy Mildred Tase ~ ~ Eldonna Caoanaw Della Hudgen Joseph Negn Savannah Taylor ~ 
; ·, ~ Phyllis Campbell Linda Hunter Jimmy NeiiT Debbie Thomas ~ ~ Elvira Caron Traci Ingle Marilyn Neill Frances Thompson ~ ~ Marlene Carter Bill Jacl<son Bernadine Nemeth Sandra Tirotta ~ ~ Sara Champagne Queen James Phetsamone Nettavong Christine Traxler ~ ~ Barbara Clark Weldon Jefferies Somphone Nettavong Jimmy Troupe ~ ~ Deborah Clark James Jennings Sara Newsome Florence Turza , ~ ~ Wanda Clayton Sandra Johns Emma Owens Joan Vanacker ~ 

Rose Clemans Melvin Johnson Rosalyn Pahis Denna Vance ~2 John Cogan Peggy Johnson MargerY Payne John Vanderbosch ~ ~ Wanda Colburn Viola Johnson Carla Peat Margaret Varnak AI 
IfF Michael Coley Annie Jones Norma Pena Tenette Verhaegen ~2 David Conrad Elroy Jones Marlene Pendergrass Christopher Vitale ~ ~ Victoria Cotton Joan Kaizer Cheryl Phillips Dalena Walters 7 IfF Richard Danner Harold Keene Joann Phillips Debra Walters 7 ~ Rose Darr Laura Kelly John Piechowicz Leo Warbington ""W ~ Nancy Dausman Stella Kirkman John Pierson Carol Warren ~ 
,: ~ I ~ Joe Davis Karen Kirkpatrick Vicki Price Mary Weaver ~ ~ Harold Ditsch Lucille Knox Joan Radanovich Carl Webb ~ 
~ ( 
~ Phillip Dixon Emilia Kolesnik Patricia Rans Lola Weston ~ ~ Cheryl Duncan Lorraine Koszyk Esther Ratajczak Sylvester Wichlacz ~ 
. .., 
~ Sherry Eby James Kovach Dorothy Ray John Wien ~ ~ David Edwards Ethel Kovacs Arvilla Reed Clarence Williams ~ ~ Dawn Emmans Matilda Kowalski Cory Richards Daniel Williams ~ ~ Dolores Eppolito Kenneth Kramer Lawrence Robinson Debra \Nilliams ~ ~ Patricia Feltes William Krill Sweet C. Robinson Mary Williams ~ ~ Dorothy Finney Paul Larkin Maria Rome Sharon Williams ~ ~ Henry Flis Ana Laskowski Mary Rosetta Mary Wilson ~ ~ Ella Frederick Frank Laskowski Terry Roy Nathaniel Wilson ~ ~ Ofelia Fuqua Diane Lee Mana Salazar Jessica Wisler ~ ~. Luz Galicia Roseann Lemert Sandra Sanders Janina Wlochowski ~ ~ Nancy Gambee Cheryl Leonard Lillian Scanlon Charles Wynegar ~ ~ . Franklin Gentry James Lepel Christine Schaal Ann Yandl ~ 

Evelyn Gills Mary Lightner Sherri Schram Brenda Young ~ Phyllis Glassburn Diana L1ppert Edward Schrump Mei Zhang t 
~ Thank you for sharing your skills with us during 1993! ~ 
·~·~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~J~~J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~~~~J~~·~~~~~ 



Friday, December I 0, 1993 page 27
The Observer • WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Offensive execution a key for Irish against Seton Hall 

Dear Kara, Happy 19th y! Love, Mom, Dad, Taylor, Ally & Abby You'll always be #1! Go Irish Softball!!! 
Saint Mary's College Carroll Auditorium Friday & Saturday 7 p.m. & 9:30 p~m. Admission $2 

An Educational Technoloou conrererice 
EouFEST '93 is a "must" event for school administrators, faculty, staff and ~1:udents. Enjoy a festival ofsavings and information-filled days with more than 40 exhibitors, demonstrations and break-out sessions conducted by leading educators. 
PIONEER LOTUS CLARIS BAUDVILLE AMERICAN POWER THE LEARNING COMPANY 
Bring your school ID or purchase order to take advantage ofspecial educational discounts on computer software and accessories. Plan to attend exciting banquet sessions featuring enlightening speeches by nationally-knmm educators: 
_,...

A FRIDAY, DECEMBER 17 SATURDAY, DECEMBERW, Dr. David Thornburg Dr. Annette C. Lamb 
"Multiple Intelligences in "Transforming Educators: Getting the Classroom" Teachers Involved with Technology" 
By AMY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Hoping to rebound from their 66-59 loss to Purdue, the wom­en's basketball team will take on Seton Hall on Saturday at 2 
p.m. at the JACC. 
"It's going to be tough. Seton Hall's a good team," said senior Sherri Orlosky. "We're going to go out and play hard and come out with a victory." 
Seton Hall won the Pal's­Mayfair Farms Invitational championship defeating LaSalle 73-48, last weekend. Seton Hall was ranked third in the Big East preseason poll. 
"We're still really positive and know have a lot of poten­tial. We'll go out and play as hard as we can," said freshman Beth Morgan. "We feel we're 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

the only ones who can beat
Sherri Orlosky (right) and the women's basketball team will face Seton Hall Saturday at the JACC. 
ourselves." 
play by Bowen. Purdue's Stacey Lovelace (15 points) an­swered with a shot from the baseline. Two free-throws and a jumper for Purdue in the final minute secured their victory. 
"Looking at Purdue and their ranking and how they played, I think our athletes are good enough to beat them. I think we deserve to be in the top 20," said sophomore Carey Poor. 
Junior Letitia Bowen dis­played another strong perfor­mance, pulling down 16 re­bounds and scoring 14 points. Morgan tied Bowen with a team high 14 points. Orlosky scored 11 points for the Irish. 
"Even though Purdue was ranked we defmitely could have beaten them," said Morgan. We feel we beat ourselves with our mistakes." 
The Irish offense was held to 
29.4 percent from the field, while Purdue made four of nine three-point shots and shot 40 percent from the field in the first half. 
"Our first half offense didn't execute and our defense was what kept us in the game," Poor said. "In the second half we had a great comeback but it wasn't enough." 
"We're still really positive and learning from the Purdue game," said Morgan. 
,,., ...,4  
(  ....._~__, ..LS3:dfi<I3:  ~,.,  

' -J ­
' .... , "' ' ""' 
.... -" f ........ J 
~ ~ 
-
( ,..... ' .... ) } .... 
-( r ,&..
... -( ...._ 
Jtr-....-~ 
~ I 
-~ ) 
• I
'' 
,_
' ~ ) ( "­
~ 
~ 

r-------------, 
The Irish (4-1) lost to 22nd­ranked Purdue Wednesday night to suffer their first loss of the season, despite a strong second-half effort. 
Notre Dame came out strong in the second half and outscored Purdue 32-28. How­ever, they could never fully eliminate their 14 point half­time deficit. 
With 1:42 left of play, the Irish had cut the Boilermaker's lead to 60-59, on a three point 

-

f'! 
\ ,, ~ ' 
page 28 Friday, December 10, 1993 ~ ~ 
The Observer • MCC EXPANSION 
~ MCC expands at Mid-Continent's expense 
~ 
!~\ 
')'\ New members 
\~i
' ' 
should stabilize 

-~ 
shakyMCC

;( 
H 
'l l\'t By STEVE HERMAN Associaled Press ~\
1\ INDIANAPOLIS I The Midwestern Collegiate Conference, which has lost
·ll 
three members and its auto­I\ \ matic bid to the NCAA basket­ball tournament, announced an
' 
I expansion Thursday with five 
' 
schools from the Mid-Continent
~ 
Conference. 

The move will give the MCC at least eight members through the 1996-97 season and restore the league's NCAA tourney qualifier, commissioner Jon LeCrone said. 

The status of three other cur­rent conference members ­Xavier and LaSalle in all league sports and Notre Dame in all sports except men's basketball -v.ill be determined later, he said at a news conference. 
"We have always had a fairly 


SHAKEUP IN THE M.C.C. 
Five current Mid-continent Conference members will join the Midwest Collegiate Conference in the fall of 1994 

Notre Dame Butler . 
Xavier Detroit Mercy 
LaSalle ·· Loyola 
Mid-Continent officials remain confident despite defections 
By MARIO FOX dence of "a bright and exciting Associaled Press future." "The departure of these CHICAGO schools is something we had The Mid-Continent Conference anticipated for some time. We 
insisted on Thursday that it have a plan that will insure was not dead despite the de­that the Mid-Continent fection of six schools, leaving Conference will remain a very only four members of the once viable and competitive league robust and growing league. for years to come," read 
Lured in part by larger televi­Commissioner Jerry A. sion markets, Illinois-Chicago, Ippoliti's statement. Cleveland State, Northern Illi­"The actions we expect will 
nois, Wisconsin-Green Bay, provide this league and its Wisconsin-Milwaukee and member institutions with secu­Wright State are joining the rity and continuity for many, Midwestern Collegiate Confer­many years," said lppoliti. ence for basketball and a dozen Tom Lessig, assistant com­other sports, beginning in the missioner, would not comment fall of 1994. on speculation that the Mid-Con 
The withdrawals leave East­might try to add independents ern Illinois, Western Illinois, Northeastern Illinois, Chicago Youngstown State and Val­State and Missouri-Kansas City paraiso searching for schools to to survive. join them in the Mid-Con. Northern Illinois said it was 
Only a few weeks ago, the changing leagues in part be­suburban Naperville-based cause of "being more visible in Mid-Con was talking about lur­larger media markets." Illinois­seriously, that these be schools Chicago State, Northeastern


aggressive expansion strategy, ing away Midwestern schools Chicago also mentioned the 
with a good record in the past, Illinois, Central Connecticut,
and the process has been fairly and the Indianapolis-based new league's "major media 
they be serious about their ath­Hofstra, Buffalo and Troy (Ala.) 
complex. But they have been on Midwestern was struggling markets'! -Chicago (Loyola), 
letic programs, that they have State universities," he said. 
our prospective member board with only five members for next Detroit (Detroit Mercy) and 
strong faculty representative "Be assured, however, that
for some time," he said of the fall. The Midwestern had lost Cincinnati (Xavier) -in its 
involvement with all of their we will continue to sponsor an
new members -Cleveland its automatic NCAA Tour­statement. 
programs, and our preference intercollegiate athletics pro­
State, Northern Illinois, nament berth for basketball. The NIU Huskies will remain 
has been cities that make gram consonant with the insti­
Wisconsin-Green Bay, Wiscon­With only four teams, the Mid­in the Big West Conference for 
sense for the MCC." tution's academic standards
sin-Milwaukee and Wright Con would be in the same sit­football and the UIC Flames 
The MCC competes in men's and capable of creating a spirit
State. uation. will keep their membership in 
basketball, golf, cross country, of pride in the university,"
"We spent a lot of time talking The depleted league issued a the Central Collegiate Hockey 
soccer, indoor track, swim­Harre said. 
about membership, and we statement expressing confi-Association. 
ming, tennis and baseball; and Xavier athletic director Jeffhave visited with a lot of private in women's basketball, tennis, Fogelson did not say whetherand public institutions over the cross country, soccer, volley­his school would remain in the
past few months about mem­ball, indoor track, swimming MCC but that he is "pleasedbership in the MCC." 
and softball. that the MCC has added theseBesides Xavier, LaSalle and Notre Dame is an independent schools."
Notre Dame, the current MCC 
in men's basketball.
members are Butler, Detroit 
The switch of affiliation leaves Mercy, Evansville and Loyola, the Mid-Continent ConferenceIll. Evansville is leaving at the 
with Valparaiso, Illinois­end of this year to join the 
Chicago, Youngstown State,Missouri Valley Conference, 
Eastern Illinois and Western
while in the past two years Illinois, although LeCrone
Dayton defected to the Great 
would not speculate on the fu­Midwest and Duquesne depart­ture of that conference.
ed to the Atlantic Ten. 

Illinois-Chicago has had re­
All five new members are 
54 Holes 


\\ with every
cent discussions with the MCC
state-supported universities 
\ ___ tanning package
ol Indoor

about joining but has not an­
ranging in enrollment from 
''-% purchase
Miniature Golf
nounced a decision.
Wisconsin-Green Bay's 5,000 Alan Harre, president o( Val­
Over 100 Video Games!
students to Wisconsin-Milwau­
GET FREE TANNING!
paraiso, said his university iskee's 24,341. In the past, the 
FOR A LIMITED TIME (WITH THIS AD)
Open 7 Days a week

"disappointed in this action, for MCC was open only to smaller, 
Expires 12/17/93
Mon.-Thur. 10 a.m.-10 p.m.

it has major implications for
private colleges. 

Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m.-11 p.m.
our Division I teams and will"We had a set of criteria we 
FOR D£TAJLS
Sunday 1 p.m. -10 p.m.

require considerable readjust­used as we looked at various 
CALL 272·7653 

ment in next year's schedul­schools that came out of our 
Town & Countr;: Shopping Center 
ing."

long-term planning committee 
on Mckinley in Mtsbawaka

Harre said the remaining Mid­as well," said Butler president Continent members is investi­
Geoffrey Bannister, chairman 
gating the possibility of adding
of the MCC council of presi­
254-0100
new members of its own.
dents. 

"One of the possibilities being "We were very concerned that 
Use Your Student

explored is a merger with thethese be schools that take the 
Discount Card!

East Coast Conference ­athletic-academic side very 
... still another Christmas Happy 21st gift to take home . ; . 
Birthday, 
CoMMONSONG 
Acoustic Meditations by the
COHMO~SONG 

Notre Dame Folk Choir 
An intriguing collection ofsacred music by instrumentalists of the 
Notre Dame Folk Choir. A perfect contemporary backdrop for 
prayer, reflection, or just for quiet listening.
Nor~ 
Stereo Cassette $9.95 • Compact Disc $15.95 
c-Cf))lceltlt~ 
Available at 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


Friday, December 10, 1993 
The Observer • HEISMAN TROPHY page 29 

MOVIE NIGHT 
Come see your favorite X-mas classics. 
9:00pm Rudolph 
10:00 pm A Christmas Story 
11:30 pm The Year Without a Santa Claus 
12:30 am Home Alone 2:15am Frosty 2:45am The Grinch 
December 11 , 1993 in the LaFortune Ballroom 
Have Fun and Get in the Holiday Spirit Absolutely FREE! 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
FSU's Charlie Ward is expected to win the Heisman Trophy Saturday. 
6fe's J3islro & 2lc.
'-) V  tne  .tntng at mo  .erate pnces  o  
Gourmet sandwiches • pastries • coffee  ~  
Theatre "WOrks Playhouse -upstairs  

at the Bistro Ask about catering 257-0400 
Ward's coronation set for Saturday 
By BRENT KALLESTAD 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE. Fla. 
A TV cameraman once asked Charlie Ward to strike a Heis­man Trophy pose. He said no. His own sense of humility wouldn't permit it. 
On Saturday. he'll most likely be posing with the Heisman. 
"He's just like a vapor," Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said. "Just when you think you see him, and can reach out and grab him, he's gone." 
The senior quarterback is heavily favored to win the award as the country's top col­lege player. Only two others, junior quarterback Heath Shuler of Tennessee and the versatile David Palmer of Al­abama, were invited to the an­nouncement at New York's Downtown Athletic Club. 
Last year, even the most ar­dent Florida State fans weren't thinking about the Heisrnan when Ward started off his ju­nior season with eight inter­ceptions in the first two games. 
But despite the errant tosses, 
i~rl'9~~; =·· 
I -~--0•--....
• 
_1 
!NOTRE DAME 
itiiliiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiii 
1· Moftt•s• 11-.'Y "•-Ia. ·,.,.,,J419 Negrll l11-'e41 •,....,. $449 
1 C•ncun Mozice """' $439 
Dll}'toft• a..ch, FL to~ $149 
Ptln-City a..ch1 FL """$129 
Local Contads: Angle Walker @634-4659 Mllut a-nan @634-4451 Michael Roskoll @634-1121 

120-Aur..-alt.,-.NY14aSO 
~-----,~-~·o~~~-~~9 
Florida State won the games against Duke and Clemson. Ward engineered a late, win­ning drive against Clemson in a hint of what was to come. 
Two years later, Ward had led Florida State to a 21-2 record and will guide the Seminoles on New Year's Day in the Orange Bowl against Nebraska for the college football championship. 
Last year, Ward replaced 1991 Heisrnan runner-up Casey Weldon, and he admits thinking "Oh, no, not again," as he got off to the rough start. 
While some Florida State as­sistants were concerned, they supported Bowden's instruc­tions to give Ward time to ma­ture. 
"We'd seen him in practice and everybody thought Charlie would go out and immediately be perfect," said Bowden, who admitted he had tremendous expectations for Ward. 
.. But Charlie hadn't played in four years," Bowden said. "We coaches had to remember that." 
Ward was the team's punter in 1989, then redshirted a sea­son and rode the bench for an­other year before winning the starting quarterback assign­ment. 
Bowden's patience paid off. Florida State's only two losses with Ward at quarterback were at Miami and Notre Dame. 
Ward threw 17 interceptions as a junior, but this season he was nearly flawless, completing almost 70 percent of his passes for 3,032 yards and 27 touch­downs with just four intercep-
The Observer 
is now accepting applications 
for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Must have knowledge ofMacintosh computers and their applications. Please turn your resumes in to the Observer office by December 10. Contact Patrick Barth at 631-5303 for more information. 
tions. 
Florida State led the nation in scoring and was second in total offense despite substituting freely most of the year because of so many one-sided games. Ward averaged over 300 yards a game total offense despite playing in the fourth quarter just four times all season. 
He might even win the Heis­rnan by a record margin, be­corning the first player from Florida State and the Atlantic Coast Conference to be honored as the nation's best football player. 
Florida State team chaplain Clint Purvis claims Ward's hu­mility helped steer him through the bad times and now the good. 
"Earlier this year, one of the television networks tried to talk Charlie into giving them a Heisrnan pose," recalled Purvis. "He wouldn't do it. He told them, 'sorry, I can't do that.' 
"He's the most humble person I've ever seen," added Purvis. "He is the same if he's just completed 450 yards passing as he is when he had that bad spell a year ago. He keeps it all in perspective." 
While Ward prepares to finish his college career against Ne­braska, he may pursue basket­ball as a professional choice. North Carolina coach Dean Smith would like to see him in the NBA. 
"There isn't any doubt he'd be a good NBA player with his quickness and savvy," Smith said. 

-
0 

page 30 The Observer· COLLEGE BASKETBALL Fnday, Ueccmber 10, 1993 

It's not time to get rid of Knight 
,­
By JIM LITKE Associated Press 

At the moment sport's biggest bully called timeout for the sole purpose of shoving his own kid into a chair on the Indiana bench, his team was ahead by 26 points. 
That was not good enough.
1i Some surprise. Whenever and wherever Bob Knight is in­volved, nothing will ever be enough. But to make his point, to be absolutely certain his son, his son's mother and Knight's ex­wife, 17,234 other onlookers and a television audience of who-knows-how-many-more all understood that the sin of care­lessness would never go unpun­ished, Knight walked along the bench to where Pat Knight sat and then punted him -or at least appeared to. That should have surprised people even less. Predictably, this most recent in a series of continuing Knight­mares has prompted calls for everything from his resignation to patricide. But while the newspaper and telephone polls on the issue are still being tal­

" lied, try to be dispassionate 
/,' about this, if only for a moment. 
The time to get rid of Bob Knight was nearly 20 years ago, when he first settled into a pattern of abusing players, ref­erees, opposing coaches and anyone else who didn't mea­sure up to his impossible stan­dards and wasn't even a distant relative. 

COMMENTARY Or 15 years ago, when he slapped a policeman in Puerto Rico for interrupting a U.S. team practice session during the Pan Am Games. Or a few years after that, when he chucked a chair across the floor during a game. Or maybe even a short five years ago, when he let slip during a television in­terview that, "If rape is in­evitable, relax and enjoy it." Yet, even taking all those things into account, the time to get rid of Bob Knight is not now. Once he went ofT the first, or second or third time and ev­erybody looked the other way, all of us became accomplices. It is once again on display and say what you will -that he is a miserable, obsessive, uncaring excuse for a human being ­there can be no doubt which side of the ledger is longer. Knight has never preached doing what he does, only doing what he says. That kind of ex­cellence comes at a very high cost, but there is a long line of people who value it at least as much as he does. The kids who show up at Indi­ana before the start of each basketball season both know and weigh the risks, and they still enlist in droves. The hand­ful of kids who leave Indiana after each basketball season usually do so with a degree in hand and always with a very finely developed sense of the pitfalls that await them in the larger world. In that sense, Pat 
Knight will hardly be an excep­tion. 
The measure of Bob Knight, finally, should not be the num­ber of NCAA championships, Big Ten titles or even his career won-lost record. Neither should it be how many insults and chairs he has hurled, or how many players he has grabbed, slapped or shoved. The only measure that should count is what happened to them after they moved on. 
That was the point that prompted a caller to one of those radio talk shows to offer this story about Knight. 
It seems there was a very over­weight student at Indiana who showed up at one of Knight's impromptu talks on campus and had the temerity to ask why Knight didn't hold such sessions more often and why more seats weren't made avail­able when he did. 
Ignoring the first question, Knight stared at the kid and coolly answered the second one: "There'd be more seats right now if you weren't taking up two of them yourself." 
Too stunned to reply at the time, the student wrote Knight a letter. He responded this time by locating the kid and convinc­ing him to undertake a diet and exercise program. Now, the caller said, the one-time fatso was happier and healthier. All because of Bob Knight. 
"Even with all that," the show's host wondered when the story was over, "was it worth it?" 
The answer is still yes. 
Photo courtesy of Indiana Sports Information 

Indiana coach Bob Knight is under fire again. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish/ 
Friday and Saturday 1 2/1 0 & 11 Notre Dame Ice Hockey 12/10 ND vs. Lake Superior 
12/11 ND vs. Ohio State JACC Fieldhouse Both games at 7:00pm 
Saturday 12/11 Women's Basketball vs. Seton Hall 
2:00 pm JACC Arena 


FREE waterbottles to the 1st 250 fans through the gate -courtesy of WHME TV 46! 
BuyaMacintoshnowandyoucan 
organizeyour time, strai teh outyour 
cesorgocomple · ic. 

Appk PowerBook 145B 4/80. 
inlemal !tpp/e(IJ'w 3f)Oi CD-ROM Drive, W Display. Apple Kejx>ard Hand mouse. ltppk Keyboord II and mouse. 
Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize select Macintosh~ or PowerBook'computer, you'll also receive seven your tin1e and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy
.•,' 
: r. 
' 
'. software programs. It's all included in one low price. And the software an Apple® computer? It does more. It costs less. It's that simple. package alone has acombined SRP value of $596: It was designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal 
·~ 


Visit your Apple Campus ReselJer for more information. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
©1993 Apple Computer, Inc. All ri}fbts reserved AW[e, the Apple logo, Macmtosb and Poz..erBook are l"e}ftstered lrademarks ofAW[e Compuier Inc. AppleCD is a !rademark ofA{f1{e Compuier Inc. "Based 011 the rombined Suggesled Retail Prices (SRP) ofthe products in The Campus Soj)ware Set for MacintoSh liS ofOctober I. 1993. 


.~ 
'' 


Friday, December 10, 1993 
The Observer • TODAY page 31 


THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
... 




s,cJn~y =:z;~e(~f) 
ASSi st~n t qaj wrd·er­
.fu...-#oe Bef'/\y ff;lt shoiAI. 

In their sibling's shadow 
The Russells' silverware got caught in a forest fire. 

So did the Russells. 
Today, more and more people are living closer and closer ro the forests. Thats why, today, forest fires kill more than trees. Please be careful. Only you can prevenr torest fires. 

DINING HALL 
l .. 
-

SPELUNKER 
JAY HOSLER 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
~00 K~()W, E.~ER'\11{\N.G I ~M ... to\~ IJ~\QUE sP\RIT AN\> PtRSoW\L\Ti ... E'IE.Ri­
1'\-\IN<; 1\\P-.\ 



FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
'T•us a *«k IM'forr { 'hrislm ... and all lhroul!h lhf' ball, Nol a rrnlurr wa• •lirrinl: Cwhall with linak and alii. l>fos had !WII~ bimwlf wllh IIi• J>hy•k•l (lwm. Wllil•l I •tudi~ llickin,..,.., lhr youn~: las.• aam~ t:m. 
CROSSWORD 
--------------~~~------,
And owlllr"' ,.f' ul for a loa~ lli&hl of~~'"-~ So I lllrrw on my rap and llrs pul oa hi~ boels, A• wr bolh loo~ ahrad Iowa~ lhr la•l w~k of lrsls, A11d wr ra11 011 oul•ldr 10 lhr hol~n and hoels. Whrn up from liM' window llr!l hnrd wrb a noi~: \'n wr look a n~hl orr from our worrir. aad frrls. "('omr !IH! Snow has falk'a! ('om«' play &irk aad boy•!" Lnllllr Spirit ofChmlmas wr should forl\fl. 
NATE... .. ~oo.i~U-Tov<.~<•

0ou..,os L II<£.. 5oM£Bo1>'1 
GoMmE A ~U(> 
ME. ... NATE... ... f\IAT-E..,

~1,,. ~E-To\......-CoLA ... 
~ou \3\b LvNl<.l 
W£. T1=n... ~£D Asou..-·\ ~\S .. . 

ACROSS 29 Cinematogra-53 Brains pher Nykvist alternative
11nspired 30 Folklore fox 55 Mlle. in Mexico 

guesser 32 Most skillful 56 Undoubtedly
a Relative of a Persian 34 Take a stab at 59 Needle-shaped eo "Guernica"
15 Come forth 35 Coach Parseghian artist
16 Horse shackle 6t Spas
36 Taking little risk 

17 Where to go to 62 Act like a snake
start over 40 Berry bush 19 Middle East 44 Seas or sees honchos lead-in · 
DOWN

20 They may be 45 Water bearers proper, but 
47 Long, loud t One engaged in 
never improper 

sound logomachy 21 For men only 
48 Guinea pig's 2 Fancy 22 Spurious milieu 3 Good sign for a 23 Victory 49 Leander's love, tired driver 24 Give--whirl Italian style 4 Invisible, 25 Suffix for differ 50 King's superior blue-black, etc. 27 Discourage 51 Darn's kin 5 King Cole 
6 School on the Thames 7 Scattered new

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
seed a Dazed or amazed 9 Keogh plan 
relatives 31 Comment from 41 Pessimistic on 53 Ram 10 Thun's river Annie's dog Wall Street 54 Armstrong or RH~~ 1 1 Sras., in France 

33 Angelico, for 42 Milk sugar Simon -:-:-l-::-1-=1-::-1-::-1 12 Showing 
one 43 Fala's mistress 55 23 Across for aexcitement, e.g. 
36 Bloodless 46 Where Mosul is pitcher, e.g. 
-:-t-:-:-1-=-t 13 Deliberative 
international 52 "Comin' --57 Dory accessory bodies hostility the Rye" 58--~fi14Ciassy 37Cupidity
18Give up on 38 Car dealers' 
~:-:-t:::-1 26 Place in the log promotions Get answers to any three clues 
-::-1-:-:-1-:-:-1 27 "Pipe down!" 
39 Hamlet's killer by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
=1-::-1':1 28 Brings up 
__,__,__, 29 Use a die 40 Angry outbursts 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
-

SPORTS 
page 32 Friday, December 9, 1993 

Round of 16 sweet for Irish volleyball 
Win over Minnesota lifts Irish to Elite Eight 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Sports Editor 
In a season where they have constantly reiterat­ed that they belong among the nation's top teams, making an appearance in the 'Elite Eight' of the NCAA tournament is an appropriate step for the Notre Dame volleyball team. 
The Irish were able to make their first-ever appearance in the 'Sweet Sixteen' live up to its name as they defeated Minnesota on its home court in a closely contested regional semifinal 15­9, 11-15, 15-13, 11-15, 15-13 to ensure their sta­tus as one of the premiere squads in the country. 
Notre Dame was able to hold on against a red hot Gopher squad and now stands one game away from the Final Four. 
Although unranked, Minnesota entered last night's game in Williams Arena with the most impressive winning streak in volleyball, having won eight in a row and three straight against top 15 competition. 
However, that streak would come to grinding halt against a determined Irish squad that fol­lowing its sweep of No. 8 Nebraska was also play­ing at its best. As it turned out, with both teams at the top of their games, the Irish were just bet­ter. 
Notre Dame registered five players with double 
The Observer/Jake Peters see VOLLEYBALL/ page 24 Molly Stark (right) and Jenny Birkner helped the volleyball team advance to the Elite Eight Thursday. 

I~ It's Lake Superior State 
a 
' 

again, this time at home 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Writer 

For the fourth time in less than a month, the Notre Dame hockey team faces off against national power Lake Superior State tonight at 7 p.m. 
However, this will be the Notre Dame 's first opportunity to face the Lakers at the Joyce ACC, where the Irish are unde­feated, with a record of 2-0-2. 
The Irish will return to the JACC ice on Saturday night to host Ohio State. Clearly, though, the team is focused for now on LSSU. 
In the first match-up of the year between the two squads, the Irish shocked the host Lak­ers by using a frustrating dump and chase style of play. This strategy is suited to the hus­tling, defense-oriented play of Notre Dame. It also serves to test the patience of the more talented Lakers. 
The Irish, although trying to elimanate their mistakes, will be looking to employ a similar style of again. 
The Notre Dame defense 
must be ready for the explosive 
Lakers. 

LSSU boasts a 4.43 per game 
scoring average, compared to 
2.86 for the Irish. Although the defense surrendered only two goals in the last outing against Lake State, they will be chal­lenged by some of the CCHA's top scorers, such as Wayne Strachan (8 goals, 5 assists) and Sean Talliere (6-7). 
The offense, which has been much improved in recent games, must step up their play against LSSU. In the past two losses to the Lakers, the Irish have scored only two goals. 
However, two things point to more production. First, the scoring has been much more balanced. Over the past week­end, ten different skaters scored. Second, Notre Dame has converted more power play opportunities into goals, includ­ing six in their past five games. 
In addition to leading scorer Jamie Ling, coach Ric Schafer will be looking for production from Terry Lorenz, Tim Har­berts, and Brett Bruiniks. Goals are just as likely to come from unexpected sources, too. This past weekend, four differ­ent skaters scored their first goals of the season. Obviously, as more players contibute, the Irish become more difficult to defend. 
In net for Notre dame on Fri­
day night will be senior Brent 
Lothrop, who earned a victory 
last Friday. He has been more 
than up to the task of replacing 
the injured Greg Louder. His 
strongest outing of the year 
came against LSSU, when he 
held the Lakers to just two 
goals. 
The second game of the 
weekend against Ohio State 
should not pose as much pf a 
challenge as Lake State, but the 

The Observer/Sean Farnan Davide Dalgrande and the Irish hockey team face Lake Superior State for the fourth time this season tonight at the JACC. 
Irish cannot afford to come into the contest overly-confident. In the CCHA, any team is capable of beating anyone else on a given night, even on the road. 
Notre Dame defeated the Buckeyes earlier this year, but OSU still poses some problems for the Irish. 
"We were fortunate to beat them the first time, "noted Schafer. "They're much im­proved, even if their record doesn't indicate it. It'll be a big game. In fact, both games are big games for us." 
Once again, this weekend 
provides the Irish with the op­portunity to improve upon their consistent .500 record (6-6-2 overall, 4-4-2 in conference) and move up from their sixth place standing. This is one of the few weekends the Irish will have both games at home. The team is hoping for a great deal of support during this impor­tant weekend. 
"I know it's finals week. But if you're looking for a little break. spending two hours at the JACC will be well worth the effort. It's safe to say that the games will be evenly-con­tested," said Schafer. 
Inside SPORTS Women's Basketball 
College Basketball 

Seton Hall visits coach 
The Associated Press' Muffet McGraw's Irish 
Jim Litke says it's not 
I' 
Saturday at 2 p.m. 
time for Bobby Knight (left) to resign. 
see page 27 
see page 30 
Southern Cal next challenge for Irish hoops 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Ediwr 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will travel to Los Angeles Saturday to face off with 3-1 Southern Cal. 
The Irish, who are currently 2-2, will be playing the ninth game in the series between the two teams. Each team has won four games, with the visiting team prevailing each time. 
Last year. the Trojans took a 40-18 lead by halftime at the JACC and expanded the lead to 25 points in the second half. The Irish, however, rallied late in the game and nearly erased the deficit before falling 77-74. 
"It was an emotional roller­coaster," said Irish forward Billy Taylor. "We could have done some things better, but it was a tough game." 
After a season opening loss to Pennsylvania, the Trojans have won three consecutive games­a 13 point victory over Loyola­Marymount, a six point victory over Tennessee-Martin, and a 19 point victory over San Diego State. 
USC is stacked with talented 
young players and has a 
strong, aggressive style of play. 
The Irish will need to rebound 
well in order to set up their 
fast-break offense. 
"We need to come out with a 
strong start," said Notre Dame 
captain Monty Williams, who 
noted that the Irish have been 
see USC I page 25 
MCC Expands 
The Midwestern Collegiate Conference expands at the expense of the Mid-Continent. 
see page28 




~~-! • ~· ... ..... , il
~-----~----~-:o---_....,._..,.-----~--------------------..-----­
f t ~ i : " 
·J· ·,.Ia-· , IJ .llfi·'J
j • ' !

¥ ., -f 
_ r • 1 r ' .~ . ··: < ·-i .t1lf'T ,;~tr -., 
. • • ' i ' ~ j -. : • -J 
. ' ' 
:.~.. ~--.. 

·---.---------• ..::'}ast Sunday's pres§ opn~~=· 
-·-· _erence ¥if Irish-coach-Loti~t · ·-·_. ·_ 
. -~ . ' . .
-. ­
·· · "~----~ -~,r:H-.._a·~·j;;rs·_-·_.;~es·p"on·d-e-n·t ··_ ·· ~..• o·1-·t·z· w· -­
·:-~.-_· . ' ,· " . :, .u' . ·. 'liit" ·_ .. ··_ • : .· '" 
He~~P:enly admitted that. he wa~.. ···-·--.,....... oWll;r_tu:sco!lf:i~~tl;~,a.!!~ •basieal~__-.-. _ly;<t}-IIl~ltionally~;,.~~nJ. ~-y~:r :tl\e --_-. 
·_. ·~-·-• ·_. •· · --· -ts -.. ·
that--~has -~befallei1 
" ' ' . . . . ..:1ft, , .. ·. , . .···'C@i'!<O ·.· . .· ... ,';. ;c'·... •;...& .·. 
. . . . . team sincH~i-,.--.. 
,""1;;~,:-._.~;!li~)J"o'~'i:.. ,~~.~.;,, : I: . . . ·. ;_1!-~" .... ,, '' -··: . ,· . -7i@r$f:: :,; ..· . ' . 
.. :::;!~~~·::··J-~-~---•..· _-· over -Flerida Stltt~--~-~·;t;-;~l 
· 
·4 r~~v~:!Ji;)k;~i~~fi;~~~-ur 
ill'£. "·-' 
et over it.,,,... 

i;!i· . 
e,t~~ .. ~l"~s'·· .. 4aenle·an·o·r: :S e emed. .t0. echo the feeling on the rest of the Notre Dame campus, as students and fans alike re­-membered how much things have changed since the No. 1 ~ See j)l_~.:. · :..:.--age 6 
-~ ~ J.. -:::· 
Kevin McDougal (top) and Oscar McBride play in their final game for Notre Dame 
page 2 

The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, December 10, 1993 
Experienced lineup paces Aggie attack 


on a scale of 1 ro 5 QUARTERBACKS 

Pullig is one of the more confident sopho­more starters in the nation. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Hill, Thomas, and McElroy could be the best running back trio in the country. 
RECEIVERS 

Harrison is an acrobatic wide receiver but the unit lacks depth. 
0-LINE 

The offensive line is physical, but will they be able to stop the Notre Dame charge? 
D-UNE 

Awesome Sam Adams makes any defensive line stellar .. 
LINEBACKERS 

Though All-American Buckley is gone, Atkinson still anchors a strong unit. 
SECONDARY 
Does not have a star like the Smiths, Fraziers, and Bates of past A&M secondaries. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

McElroy has returned three kickoffs for TO's and Venetoulias is a consistent kicker. 
COACHING 

R.C. Slocum may storm through the SWC, but 
he has not proven he can beat the top teams. 
FINAL SCORE 
~~ 
lea 
The three running backs are the only thing standing between the Irish and their 11th win. 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Another trip to the Cotton Bowl certainly was not what Irish head coach Lou Holtz and the rest of Notre Dame's football team h a d b e e n antici­pating three weeks ago. 

However, with a January 1 rematch with Texas A&M looming right around the corner. the Irish can ill afford to dwell on what­might-have-been. 
The Aggies will be hun­gry for revenge after last year's 28-3 trouncing at the hands of the Irish. Senior defensive end Devon McDonald led Notre Dame with 10 tackles as the Irish allowed the vaunted A&M offense across midfield only three times. The Aggies' only points came on a 41 yard field goal in the fourth quarter when the game was already out of reach. 
This season's edition of the A&M football squad should prove to be much more of a challenge to the Irish than last year's. The A&M backfield is clearly one of th~ most dangerous in the nation. 
Sophomore Corey Pullig returns for the Aggies at quarterback after starting as a true freshman. He is not very flashy but his very 
The second biggest ques­tion is can they have a repeat of last year's per­formance, which saw the Irish defeat Texas A&M 28-3 behind 439 yards of total offense in the rain and cold of Dallas, TX. 
"I just worry about our football team and how we'll come back," Holtz said. "I don't think we're as good an offensive team as we were last year." 
Granted, No. 5 Notre Dame will feature a com­pletely different backfield than last year's squad, but the team has not lacked in production all year, aver­aging 260.7 yards rushing per game. 
Junior Lee Becton has had a stellar season, rush­ing for over 1000 yards, including a Notre Dame record six consecutive 100 consistent and makes few mistakes. Through 11 games this season he has completed 59.3 percent of his 243 passes for 1,732 yards. He has passed for 17 touchdowns while being intercepted 10 times. 
Juniors Greg Hill and Rodney Thomas anchor the A&M running game with the support of redshirt­freshman Leeland McElroy. 
Hill did not play ~n last year's Cotton Bowl due to suspension. This season he 
has had a tremendous sea­son," said Holtz. "If an offensive lineman ever deserved the Lombardi Award, Aaron Taylor does." 
Taylor beat out three other finalists for the award, including Texas A&M defensive end Sam Adams, the Aggie leader with 78 tackles and 10.5 sacks. 
Supporting Adams will be an Aggie defense that has allowed only 12 5.9 yards on the ground per game. The "Wrecking Crew", as it is known in the Southwest Conference, has bounced back after allowing 44 points against Oklahoma in Octoher to become one of the nation's most formidable defenses. 
Linebackers Antonio Shorter-and Jason 
has scampered for 707 yards and six touchdowns in seven games. He is aver­aging 5. 7 yards per carry and 101 yards per game. 
Thomas is known for his tough running style and difficulty to be taken down by one tackler. He has netted 996 yards this sea­son, averaging 5.2 yards per carry and 90.6 yards per game. 
McElroy may be as explosive as the other three and certainly must be paid as much attention. 
He has averaged 8.2 yards on 7 2 carries for seven rushing touchdowns. He has also returned three kicks for touchdowns and caught four passing scores. 
Collectively the Aggies average 234.3 yards rush­ing, 166.5 yards passing, and 36.7 points per game this year. 
However, the Irish defense is likely the most challenging the Aggies have faced this season. Notre Dame's defense allows an average of only 
89.5 yards rushing and 
17.6 points per game. 

Notre Dame has consis­tently stopped opponent's running games all season long while occasionally lapsing in pass coverage. Opposing offenses have averaged 227.5 yards passing per game. The Aggies will be in trouble if they balance their offense the same way they have all season. 
One of the Irish's most prominent obstacles will likely be rebounding from the stunning loss to Boston College. The defense allowed an unprecedented 41 points to the pass-domi­nated Eagle offense. 
If the Irish do show up on January 1 ready to play the style of defense they demonstrated throughout most of the season, then the Aggies will have con­siderable difficulty in pro­ducing offensive numbers which even closely resem­ble those which they post­ed throughout the season. 

Atkinson anchor the Texas A&M defense with 73 and 64 tackles on the season, while senior Eric England has had 65 tackles and three sacks thus far. 
Not only will the offen­sive line be responsible for opening holes for the Notre Dame running backs, but they will also be the key to quarterback Kevin McDougal's passing game. 
McDougal threw for 261 yards and two touchdowns in a losing cause against Boston College, and has proven that he can hit the open receiver given time to throw the football. 
Heceivers Lake Dawson and Derrick Mayes, who have 25 and 24 catches on the year, will have to deal with an opportunistic Aggie secondary, who have had 13 interceptions on the season, including two from sophomore Ray Mickens and one from safety Junior White, who has also had 64 tackles on the season. 
"Winning the bowl game is important to us," contin­ued Holtz. "I just want to see us play a great, com­plete football game.·· 
As long as the Irish per­form as they had in their first ten games, that should not be a problem. 

QUARTERBACKS 
McDougal looks to cap a surprising year with a big game. 
RUNNING BACKS 
The Irish backs will face 
a formidable foe in the 
Aggie defensive front. 
RECEIVERS 
Dawson and Johnson
•
will thrill in their final ga~e for rhe Irish. 
0-LINE 
Adams and Co. present a difficult challenge, but Irish experience should prevail. 
D-UNE 
lei 
~ 
Aggie offense has yet to face a group as phyiscal as Notre Dame's front four. 
LINEBACKERS 
Bereich and Goheen anchor a strong rush defense. 
SECONDARY 
Thank God Aggies don't have a BC-like passing attack. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Coverage will be key in stopping big play Aggie returners. 
COACHING 
Holtz has the time, but you cannot coach desire. How will he motivate a down team? 
FINAL SCORE 
11. 
. 
If the real Irish show up this could be a repeat of last season. But... 

Adants leads physical Texas A&M defense 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
Probably the biggest question facing head coach Lou Holtz and the Notre Dame football team is how well will the offense react after seeing their incredi­ble comeback 
yard games. He will be teamed with fullback Ray Zellars, who has averaged five yards a carry this sea­son while scoring eight touchdowns. 
The key to the success of the Irish running game will rest in the muscle of the 
Notre Dame offen­
against Boston 
sive line, led by College in the seniors Tim Ruddy regular season and Aaron Taylor, finale come short who recently won after a last sec­the Lombardi ond Eagle field Award. goal. "Aaron Taylor 
Friday, December 10, 1993 page 3 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 

Backfield trio leads potent offense 

By MICHAEL PLUMER The Battalion-Texas A&M 
For once, the numbers do not lie. 
Junior Greg Hill has 707 yards and six touchdowns. Junior Rodney Thomas has 999 yards and 13 touchdowns. For good measure, freshman Leeland McElroy has 613 yards rushing, three kickoff returns for touchdowns, seven rushing scores and four through the air. 
Simply breathtaking. 
Critics have suggested that A&M offensive coordinator Bob Toledo has sometimes been guilty of having his head in the clouds when determining how to use the triumvirate. But those cynics were quieted when all three were on the field at the same time in the Aggies' 42-7 vi.ctory over Louisville on Nov. 13. 
"Actually, we did not do any­thing different against Louisville," Toledo said. "There were some new formations, but the key is we had all three guys together. As a team, we exe­cuted so well when they were out there that is seemed like it was new." 
Hill said the three-back attack is the wave of the future for the Aggies. 
"We confuse defenses because they cannot key on one back," Hill said. "It adds a little 

Photo Courtesy of Texas A&M Sports Information 
Running back Greg Hill sat out last year's Cotton Bowl but is one of three top running backs for the Aggies in 1993. 
trickery to the game which can only help us. Each of us knows that when we get our chance on the field we have to make the best of it. 
"Another thing is we do not lose concentration, and we focus a lot harder. Playing in short spurts allows us to stay fresh, and in the fourth quar­ter, the defense will be tired. 
"But not us." 
Dealing with the backs can leave opposing defenses grasp­ing for air. A&M senior defen­sive end Eric England said he is glad he is a teammate and not the opposition. 
"If I played on another team or if I was the defensive coordi­nator, I would be scared of those three," England said. "The things those guys do in practice and in games are amazing. 
"It makes our defense better because we get to see those guys everyday." 
In a situation like A&M has, there is always danger of a rift developing. But all three backs said there is no danger of that occurring. 
"Whether it is business or football, there is going to be competition," Thomas said. "We take the stance that what­ever we do benefits the team. That is the main point. 
"This is a team game, an we realize that." McElroy echoed Thomas' sen­timents. 
"I am part of the team as Greg and Rodney are, and if we have problems, then it would cause everybody to have prob­lems," McElroy said. "When Greg came back, Rodney and I expected our reps to go down, but we respected that. 
"Everything will be fine." 
Hill said the special bond between the three eases and potential conflicts. 
"The type of friendship we have allows us to be the best," Hill said. "When you have got somebody supporting you, it gives you a sense of not being on the same level as the oppo­nents." 
Another area where the group wants to pull away from is the nickname category. 
Thanks to ESPN, the A&M trio has a moniker -the Back Breakers. 
"I liked that name a lot," Hill said. "Opponents are going to get our best shot in a game and when they do, we are going to rip their spine out." 
Others To 
Watch 


ANTONIO SHORTER Junior outside linebacker is second on the team in tackles and sacks. 


SAM ADAMS Junior defensive end leads the team with 78 tackles, 10.5 sacks. 


TONY HARRISON Senior wideout leads the Aggies in receiving, averaging 15.5 yards a catch. 
!Good Luck in Dallas! Finals Week Open Sunday .. Saturday 11:00 a.m... 2:00a.m. II:re-NighrSQeciallr -1~i4~L;;g;--,r-Part;P-;ck-,r-114''La;g~, . 

I 9p.m.,ciose II 1ToppingPizza II 4..-14"Large lllToppingPizzal Nowaccepttng
$695 
+Tax

I 1~ 14" Large II II 1 ~ · II I y·
I . . 11 or 2 ~ 14" Large 11 C?PPlng II with 2 cans of S:oke 1 lSa I 1 Topptng Ptzza II 1 rr . p· II Ptzzas II and Breadsux I & M d 
$5
95 ' topping lzzas $2295 $1ooo astercar 
I II $1195 +Tax II II -•Tu I $10 minimum
-+Tax +Tax 
IAdditional Topping:. .95¢ eoch ~.11 Additional Toppings 95~ each ~-~~Additional Toppings .95¢ each ~-IIAdditional Toppings 95¢ each ~.1 I N"t Vahd With Any Other Coupon .JINot Vahd With Any Other Coupon .JINot Vahd With Any Other Coupon .J INot Valid With Any Other Coupon .J
... _______ --------------------­

jiiJ" 
page 4 

The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 

,TEXASA&M AGGIES 1993 ROSTER 
:·r.: 

'K --a~o 206 Sr 46 Reggie Brown 5~11169 So 48 Jessie Cox ··-WR 5,.10 191 Sr 49 Kyle Maxfield _____-·_ 08_5~11191 Jr 
52 Darius Smith 
[:Af2J.;01eYf'lao 
;,.u,.,...,,....,Th,.:rn-~--·(! 
Mickens . 
A'lQreWilli~ms -~~,_Mill, ­28 tJedfi¢kBfyant 
2~ Ert~i~Wanaee 

-·-It-'1:3 199 So 54 Catvin Collins 
':·-i!ft 199 -_ Jr 55 Tyter H~rnson 
--6-2 .185 fr 56 Antonio Sharer &4 ?la Jr 57 Marcus Heard &3 209 So 58 L. Teichelman ­
6"2184 Fr 
59TrasonMaresh
6-2195 So -·--­
~§)~~ ~;r:;:~~'­
ae. _6-2 198 Jr _66 Michael Cody ­WR-6-0 180 so 67 Jason Mathews _WR e-o 192 _-Jr 68 Chris Dausin _DB 6-0 194 so 70 Robert Danklefs 
LB LB DB DL 
OL OL LB OL DL OL 
~~ 
Ol 
OL OL OL 

RB S·d1202 Jr 71 J. VordenbaumenDl 
6-2 224 So 6-2 222 Jr 6-2 182 Jr 6-3 264 So 
6·3 285 Fr 6-4 272 sr 6-4 215 Jr 6-3 275 Fr 6-4 274 Sr 6·5 240 Fr 
::: !~: ~: 
6-5 275 So 6-7 280 Sr 6-4 285 Sr 6-4 286 Fr 6-5 262 Jr 

___... .. _ •._._-·_.'_n_._e_-_-_s
'oa"'"•s'--·a ,,_1_._...84..,_J _. '7_-_-_2_-_ J_'._eff_-_JO_._ ___·-·-.~, OL_ 6-6 290 Jr
-_.·___ -.. _,-.'----__ -_·_ r. DB ·5.;1{186 Jr 73 Todd M4tJ1ison · Ol 6-4 283 Jr LB _. 6-3 209 Fr · 74 Ryan Kern OL 6-3 277 Jr OB 5.:& 172 So 75 Dexter Wesley OL 6-4 289 Sr DB 5;.9 471 Fr ·76 ChrisBuhman OL 6-6 282 Fi 
-. RB S-H·,20s Jr 77CtiarHe Dayis DL 6-5 255 So LB t-~4f200 Fr 78 Jarnes Brooks OL 6-4 265 so -·RB 5.;9154·-· Fr 79· John· Rf~hard '"' · OL 6-5 275 Jr 
30'0d00vanGreer ·--DB 5--:101~ Fr 80 KeVin Beime WR 6-3 186 Fr31 :~r()~ GJenn DB; 5-'10 182 St · 
a~~~~~. ~:s~~i~~ :!::;=;.; ::s~~~ :: ~: 
fr  85 Hayward Clay  TE TE  6-4 253 So. 6-3 236 Sr  
37 Jarry Jackson  LB  too Jr 6-4 239 Jr  ·aa James McKeehan TE 89 Edward Jasper LB  6-4 231 Jr 6-4 276 Fr  
38 R13ggie Graham  LB  6-2 234 Jr.  90 Ervin Briley  DL  6-3 257 Fr  
39 Dennis Allen  DB  6-2 184 So  92 Eric England  DL  6-3-263 Sr  
40 Mike Hendricks  DB  e~o  180 Jr  94 Steve Solari  LB  6-1 229 Sr  
41 Jim 13rady  TE  6-5 208 fr  95 Sam Adams .  DL  6-4 269 Jr  
42 Sean Terry  P-6.;2 212 So  96 Brandon Mitchell DL  6-4 170 Fr  
4~ .J~n Atldnson  LS . 6-~ 230 Sr  97 Dez Delatorre  DL  6-1 294 Fr  
44' O&tron Smith .. ·_;.. ·.:..:  FB . 6.;0 220 So  98 David Maxwell  LB  6-3 250 Fr.  
45  LB -6~5 220 Fr  99 Kefa Chatham  DL  6-4 262 Sr.  

-----1993 Statistics 
RUSHING  ALL-PURPOSE  
Yds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  lg  
G. Hill  101.1  124  707  5.7  6  94  Rush  Rec  
Thomas  90.6  191  996  5.2  13  80  McElroy  626  224  
McElroy  55.7  72  613  8.5  7  81  G. Hill  707  78  
Grace  11.5  28  126  4.5  0  12  Thomas  996  72  
E. Wallace  9.0  14  36  2.6  0  10  T. Harrison  14  481  
PASSING  Glenn Groce  0 126  0 138  
Schorp  0  220  
Rating  Comp  Att  Pet  Yds  TO  lnt  long  A. Mathews  0  144  
Pullig  155.0  144  243  59.3  1732  17  10  71  B. Mitchell  0  0  
Preston  10.0  10  20  50.0  100  0  1  18  B. Mitchell  0  152  

RECEIVING SCORING SUMMARY 
No  Yds  Avg  TO  long  
T. Harrison  31  481  15.5  4  71  
McElroy  19  224  11.8  4  58  Opponents  35  
Schorp  17  220  12.9  0  32  Texas A&M  76  
Groce  16  138  8.6  22  

FIELD GOALS 
17-39  4Q-49  
Venetoulias  9-10  4-9  
PUNTING  

50+ long 0-0 45 

No Avg long Bennet1 53 38.4 63 
INTERCEPTIONS 
No  Yds  TO long  
Glenn 3  40  1  40  
Allen 3  28  0  15  
Mickens 2  3  0  2  
B. Mitchell 1  23  0  23  
White 1  2  0  2  
Shorter  1  0  1  
Green  0  0  0  
DEFENSE  
T  A  Tot  FA  
Sam Adams  45  33  78  3  
Shorter  54  19  73  1  
England  33  32  65  1  
White  45  19  64  0  
Atkinson  40  24  64  0  
Jackson  45  15  60  1  
Teichelman  32  26  58  2  
Solari  40  16  56  3  
Hendricks  36  20  56  3  
Mickens  33  11  44  1  
Graham  32  12  44  0  
Glenn  22  5  27  0  
Kenney  12  6  18  0  
Colon  11  7  18  0  
Vordenbaumen  7  10  17  0  
Chatham  4  11  15  0  
K. Mitchell  7  5  12  0  
B. Mitchell  12  0  12  0  
Walker  7  3  10  0  
Greer  6  3  9  0  
Max1ield  4  4  8  0  
Brown  5  3  B  0  
Allen  7  0  7  0  
B. Mitchell  4  3  7  0  
Nov. 20 Nov. 25 


1993 TEXAS A&M SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
Sept. 4 LOUISIANA STATE 24-0 
~-·-··-C:"~~·<,._c,...::r.>rr~..w'.!l · 
Sept. 11,.at0klahoma --· ·· · 14-44 
Sept. 181;;;~fSSOURI -73-0 Oct. 2 ">'at Tex h -~ 3J -6 Oct. 9'0:-fl-lous __. . ~57'';; "r~10 
oct. 1~/~iat Baylor~ ~~,;. ;!, .;~+.-17 Oct. 2:f.,; atf{icet . . . 38-1 0 
Ocf?'30 No-~. 13 
SO. METHODIST  .37,;13  
LOUISVILLE  42-7  
at TeXas Chtlstian  59-3  
TEXAS  - 18-9  

Ret 590 0 0 0 339 0 0 0 152 0 

2 3 26 20 108 107 
SCORING 
PAT TO X2 
Tot  Avg  
1440  130.9  
785  112.1  
1068  97.1  
495  45.0  
339  30.8  
264  24.0  
220  20.0  
144  18.0  
152  13.8  
152  13.8  
4  Tot  
38  119  
113  404  
PAT  
X1  FG  Saf  Pts  


Venetoulias  0  0 51-51  13  0  90  
McElroy  14  0  0-0  0  0  84  
Thomas  13  0  0-0  0  0  78  
G. Hill  7  1  0-0  0  0  44  
McKeehan  4  0  0-0  0  0  24  
T. Harrison  4  0  0-0  0  0  24  
Glenn  3  0  0-0  0  0  18  

KICKOFF RETURNS 
No Avg TO Long McElroy 15 39.3 3 100 B. Mitchell 5 24.2 0 33 
PUNT RETURNS 
No Avg TO long Glenn 17 19.9 2 76 Mickens 2 5.0 0 12 
TEAM STATISTICS 
PBU  Tl  Sac  Opp  TAM  
4  13  10.5  First Downs  166  235  
1  4  8.5  by rushing  88  126  
3  9  3.0  by passing  59  89  
6  2  00  by penalty  19  20  
1  3  1.0  Total yardage  2724  4409  
2  5  0.0  Offensive plays  740  769  
0  5  4.5  Avg. yards per play  3.68  5.73  
0  3  6.0  Total yards per game  247.6  400.8  
5  2  0.5  Rushing yards  1385  2577  
13  0  0.0  Rushing plays  448  505  
1  3  4.0  Rushing yards per game  125.9  234.3  
13  0  0.0  Passing yards  1339  1832  
2  0  0.0  Passes completed  116  154  
0  0  0.0  Passes attempted  292  264  
0  2  0.0  Passes intercepted  13  12  
1  0  1.0  Passing yards per game  121.7  166.5  
0  0  1.0  Fumbles I fumbles lost  36/19  21/7  
2  0  1.0  Penalties I penalty yards  63/501  93/724  
0  0  0.0  3rd down conversions  46-168  66-151  
1  0  0.0  percentage  27.4  43.7  
0  0  0.0  4th down conversions  4-17  3-6  
0  0  0.0  percentage  23.5  50.0  
0  0  0.0  
0  2  0.0  

----The History of the Series---­
The Last Time: 
Notre Dame 28, Texas A&M 3 
Last year the Aggies came into the Cotton Bowl with an undefeated record, campaining for more respect in the national polls. They came out of the Cotton Bowl with one of the worst beat­ings in the bowl's history. 
Notre Dame rushed for 290 net yards 

while A&M accounted for just 78  as the  .._  
Irish dominated all facets of the game.  
Reggie Brooks finished with 115 yards  Jerome Bettis  
on 22 carries while Jerome Bettis added  

75 yards on 20 rushes, caught a 26-yard touchdown and ran for two more scores. Hick Mirer completed 8-16 passes for 119 yards and two touchdowns. 
The Records: 
Tied at 1-1 Last ND Win: 1992 Last A&M Win: 1988 Longest Series Streaks: 
ND-1 (1992-present) 
A&M-1 (1988) At the Cotton Bowl: Tied at 1-1 

Friday, December 10, 1993 
FIGHTING IRISH 
RUSHING 

Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TO Lg 
104.4 164 1044 5.4 6 70 49.4 99 497 5.0 5 29 48.8 89 537 6.0 2 70 18.7 31 168 5.4 3 23 16.9 40 186 4.7 8 27 
8.5 55 85 1.5 4 43 
PASSING 

Ra!ing Comp Att Pet Yds TOint Long McDougal 151 .3 98 159 61.6 1541 7 5 66 Failla 210.0 19 25 76.0 281 3 0 80 
RECEIVING 

No Yds Avg TO Long 25 395 15.8 2 44 24 512 21.3 2 80 19 412 21.7 2 66 14 109 7.8 3 39 12 153 12.7 1 35 10 141 14 1 0 43 
FIELD GOALS 
17-39 40-49 50+ Long Pendergast 11-14 3-5 0-0 47 
PUNTING 
No Avg Long Leonard 18 39.9 55 Ford 7 37.4 44 
Ja~ · . 12 ~3.2 . 58
uJn;t+J Ma;<•usll 
No Yds TO Long B. Taylor 4 100 1 47 Burris 3 61 0 43 Covington 2 7 0 7 Lane 29 0 29 Bereich 21 1 21 Wooden 0 0 0 
DEFENSE · 

T A Tot FR PBU TL Sac 
61 31 92 0 3 3.0 0.5 Bereich 39 32 71 2 2 4.0 1.0 Young 44 23 67 1 1 7.0 6.5 Lane 47 11 58 0 8 2.5 0.0 Covington 43 15 58 1 4 0.0 0.0 Burris 36 17 53 0 6 0.0 2.0 
B. Taylor 45 6 51 9 2.0 1.0 Flanigan 33 18 51 1 2 4.0 4.0 Magee 33 9 42 0 4 0.0 0.0 Hamilton 23 19 42 3 0 4.0 4.0 Gibson 24 10 34 0 0 3.5 0.5 Knight 13 13 26 0 4 5.0 2.0 Berry 19 6 25 0 0 1.0 0.0 Sample 17 2 19 0 0 3.0 0.0 Wynn 15 4 19 0 0 1.5 3.0 Tatum 11 7 18 0 1 1.0 1.0 Wooden 11 5 16 0 1 1.0 0.0 Nau 6 5 11 0 2 1.0 0.5 Dansby 6 3 9 0 0 1.0 0.0 Graham 4 4 8 0 0 0.0 0.0 Wag say 4 3 7 0 0 0.0 0.0 Davis 3 4 7 0 0 0.0 0.0 Edwards 2 5 7 0 0 0.0 0.0 Cobbins 2 4 6 0 0 0.0 0.0 Clark 3 2 5 0 0 0.0 0.0 Saddler 3 2 5 0 0 0.0 0.0 
THE COTTON BOWL 
Built in 1937 
Capacity: 71,456 
Largest Crowd: 
71,456 
Surface: Grass 
NO's Record There: 
4-2 
The 71, 456-seat Cotto 
Bowl Stadium, located 
on the State Fair 
grounds in Dallas, has 
served as the home of 
the annual Cotton Bowl 
Classic during all of its 
57-year history. 
Lou Holtz 

Eighth season at Notre Dame. 
Records at Notre Dame: Overall 75-19-1; at Home 37­8-1; on the Hoad 36-11-0; in Bowl Games 4-2-0. Career Records: Overall 185-84-6; in Bowl Games 9-6­2; vs. Texas A&M 1-1. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina (4 seasons). Arkansas (7 seasons), Minnesota (2 seasons). 
Career Highlights: No. 3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas team; Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Title; Upset No. 1 Colorado in 1990 Orange Bowl, No. 3 Florida in 1992 Sugar Bowl, No. 3 Texas A&M in Cotton Bowl. 
1993 Statistics 
ALL-PURPOSE 
Rush Rec Ret Tot Becton 1044 153 0 1197 Zellars 494 109 0 639 Miller 0 412 278 690 C. Johnson 0 141 409 550 Kinder 537 0 0 537 Mayes 7 512 0 519 Dawson 4 395 0 399 Farmer 168 8 0 176 Edwards 186 0 22 208 Burris 92 0 88 180 McDougal 85 0 0 85 Lytle 63 0 0 63 
SCORING SUMMARY 
2  3  4  
Notre Dame  72  113  101  111  
Opponents  40  58  37  59  

SCORING 
PAT  PAT  
TO  X2  X1  
Pendergast  0  0 45·48  
Edwards  8  0  0-0  
Zellars  8  0  0-0  
Becton  7  0  0-0  
Burris  7  0  0-0  
McDougal  4  1  0-0  
Farmer  3  0  0-0  

KICKOFF RETURNS 
No  Avg  TO  
C. Johnson  10  40.9  1  
Miller  4  16.3  0  

PUNT RETURNS 
No Avg TO Miller 26 8.2 1 Burris 1 60.0 1 Lane 1 17.0 0 
TEAM STATISTICS ~ 
NO Opp 
First Downs 239 203 by rushing 154 65 by passing 77 123 by penalty B 15 
Total yardage 4725 3487 Offensive plays 746 753 Avg. yards per play 6.33 4.63 Total yards per game 429.5 317.0 
Rushing yards 2868 985 Rushing plays 561 331 Rushing yards per game 260.7 89.5 
Passing yards 1857 2502 Passes completed 118 263 Passes attempted 185 422 Passes intercepted 5 12 Passing yards per game 168.8 227.5 Fumbles I fumbles lost 1015 16110 Penalties I penalty yards 641539 711599 3rd down conversions 60-134 65-164 percentage 44.8 39.6 4th down conversions 11-17 11·17 percentage 64.7 64.7 
Avg 119.7 63.9 62.7 50.0 48.8 47.2 36.3 19.6 18.9 16.4 
8.5 
5.7 
Tot 403 194 
FG Saf  Pts  
14  0  87  
0  0  48  
0  0  48  
0  0  42  
0  0  42  
0  0  26  
0  0  18  

Long 100 20 
Long 56 60 17 

NOTRED FIGHTING I 
1993 ROSTE 
1. 
Derrick Mayes SE 6-1 205 So. . . 

2. 
Dan Farrell fl ·6...() ·164 Jr. 


2. 
LeShane Saddler FS 5-11 194 Sr. 

3. 
Ron Powlus QB 6-4 2.10 Fr. 


4. 
lee Becton TB 6...(). 190 Jr. 

5. 
Paul Failla OB 6-2 19S Jr. 


6. 
Mike Miller fl :5-7 157 Jr. 

7. 
Dean Lytle · • F8 6-3 240 Sr. 

8. 
Clint Johnson . SE 54} 180 Sr. 

9. 
Jeff Burris FS · 6-0 204 Sr. 

10. 
Adrian Jarrell fL 6-0 194 Sr. 

11. 
TomKrug OB 6-5 210 Fr. 


11. 
Tom MacDonald SS &-0 189 Jr. . · 

12. 
K. Pendergast K5-10 168 Sr. 

13. 
Brian Ford K 6-4 190 Fr. 

14. 
Emmett Mosley WR 5~9 170 Fr. 


14. 
Colin Rittgers R" 6-? 210 So . 

15. 
Kevin McDougal OB &-2 194 Sr,c · 16. Chris Parenti 08 6-l 193 Sr. 

16. 
Brian Perry DB 6-1 205 Fr.· 

17. 
Brian Magee SS 5-10 199 So. 

18. 
Wade Smith QB 6-3 178 So. 

19. 
Anthony Swiney DB ~11 180 Fr. 

20. 
M. Andrzejewski S$ 5-7 163 Jr. · 


20. 
Cikai Champi()fl INA 5~11 170 Fr. 

21. 
Bobby Taylor'· FS 6~3 191 So. ..·· · 

22. 
Rob Leonard Kf &-1186 Sr. •· 


22. Shawn Wooden CB 5-11>187 Jt 
23. Brian Baker SES<-10 179 Sr. 
24. 
C. Stafford fl 5-10 182 Jr. 

25. 
Brent Boznanski KP &:3 174 Sr. 


25. Randy Kinder TB 6"1 205 Fr. 
26. Drew Marsh . K -B~l187 Sr. 
26. Mark Monahan ps 6-Q,; 175 So. 
27. 
Tracy Graham . ·ca &-10 ·197 Jr~ . 

28. 
Ron Hardin ·FB 6-2 227 Fr. 

29. 
John Covington SS &-1 211 Sr. 


ot. ·&? 290 Fr.

30. 
Marc Edwards FB 6-2 220 Fr. ·79. Chris Kurpeikis 

31. 
Robert Farmer TB 6-1 215 Fr. 80. Oscar McBride lE 6-5 251 SF~ 

32. 
Willie Clark CB 5-10 181 Sr. 81. Rich Sauget lE &-4 218 Jr. 


33. Greg Lane CS 5-9 180 Sr. 82. Joe carroll WR 5-9 1M ..15. 
85. TE 6-7 ·
34. Brian Meter Cl3 5-7 152 Sr. 
34. 
Ray,Zellars tS.~H· . I~.JiL·'•''·'~...~ ...-~. .lili..lllei:l,fiali¥' 

35. 
Tim Klusas TB ·s~s · · Jr.· 


35. 
Richard Rolle WR 6-1 165 So.· 

36. 
Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 218 Jr. 

37. 
Travis Davis TB 6-D 192 Jr. 

38. 
Rick Lozano FB 5-10 189 Sr. 


38. 
Sim Stokes DB 6-2 200 Fr. 

39. 
Kinnon Tatum DB 6-t 195 Fr. 


39. 
Marcus Thorne lB 6·0 215 So.. 

40. 
Kevin Carretta lB 6-1 207 So. 

41. 
Joe Babey lB 6-2 218 So. 

42. 
Mike Frascogna WR 5-8 155 Jr. · 


42. 
Alton Maiden DE 6-4 260 So. 

43. 
Bill Wagasy lB 6-2 224 So. 

44. 
Jim Flanigan NT 6-2 276 Sr. 



88. 
Leon Wallace 

89. 
John Kouris TE 6-3 218 Sn 

90. 
Brian Hamilton DE 6-3 2l5 St. 

91. 
Darnell Smith DE 6-5 240 Fr. ·· 

92. 
John Taliaferro DT 6-3 261 Jr_ 

93. 
Paul Grasmanis DT 6·3 265 So 

94. 
Reggie Fleurima DT 6-3 262 .k 

95. 
Chris Clevenger DE 6-7 245 f"­

96. 
Thomas Knight DE 6-4 231 So 


96. S. Schfoffner K 5·9 160 Jf;­-97_ Bryant Young .DT 6-3 217 sr: 
98. 
P. Chryplewicz TE 6-5 233 Se . 

99. 
Clift Stroud OT 6-3 2511 Si· 


. 45. Jeff -45. John L.Jf4.P:·;o'i 
· · 46. Oan McCDiiidlf'~'J! 
47. rtallr 9tittii\M 
48. RPtl~ilrlrr\MtmG>iJ 
49. A. PetefSon· 
50. Greg Stet·. . .. 
51. Melvin ooosfilt.· .·· .:....,.,,._·c-~·-··
52. R Hott:lel)') . 
53. Jim Kordas · 
.< 
.·l.·'i~"'·~-... 
.

54, Justin Goheen l;i '6-'l" 
55. 
onverGils:cn ''-Nf'~l2ts• ·· 

56. 
S. ·ArmMmr C, 6-& 205 Jr. . . ·56. Huntley Bakich DE &2 203 JJ~ 

57. 
A. Kaczenski TE ·.iJ-4 240.'ft. -57. Joseph Adent lB 5-11 200 Sa : 

58. 
Jeremy Nau DE 6-4 234 Jr. 

59. 
Lance JohQson c 6-1 265 -sr.' 

60. 
Bert Berry LB 6-4 230 Jt • 


61: Tim Ruddy c .&a • sr:· 
62. M. McCullough OG -6-3 274 So. 
63. Jason Beckwith aG 6-2 24l Sr. . 
64. 
Steve Misetic mr 6-5 266 

65. 
Lyron Cobbins .l.B s-2 m·. 

66. 
Todd Noailail Oi ~ 297 


-.. ·. · 67. Mark lataveski OG o-6 295. 68. Jeff Riney OG .6-5 266 . 69. David Quist OT. _6.-5 245 
70. Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285. Sr. 
71. Herbert Gibson OT 6!5 289· Jr.. 
. 72. Ryan Leahy OT 6-4 200 Jr. · 73. Mike Doughty OL 6-8 2$.Fr.. · 74. Will Lyell OG 6::5 26:t So. 
.Ji,}f!. Aaron Ta}'lor or .64· m s.. 
. ·. ·· 76. Jeremy Akers OT .6-5 .272 Sa. .. · 77. Dusty Zeigler or &-6 24D sa~ 78. Jordan Halter a--~7 200~. 


--------~ ~--------------------------------~-----------~---------~ 
page 6 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, December 10, 1993 
COVER STORY 
Bovvl 
continued from page 1 
ranking slipped away. 

The mood of the Notre Dame coach was anything but jovial soon after it became official that the Irish would be heading to Dallas to play in a rematch against Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl. 
Normally the acceptance of a major bowl bid would be a cause for celebra­tion, at least at most other schools. However, Notre Dame is different, and this was not your normal season. 
Since last year's Bowl Coalition agree­ment went into effect, Notre Dame is guaranteed a spot in one of the four major New Year's Day bowls if they go 7-4. Notre Dame is used to receiving top bowl invitations. 
This season saw a group of inexperi­enced overacheivers rise from the ~ 1th spot in the rankings to the undisputed No. 1 team in the country. This was no ordinary year. 
Holtz and the rest of the Notre Dame community were at an all-time high after defeating the Seminoles and bring­ing the No. 1 ranking back to Notre Dame after a three-year absence. 
The Irish controlled their own destiny, and they knew that with a win over Boston College they could simply wait to see who and where they would be play­ing in a match-up that would decide the 1993 national championship. 
How times have changed. Ever since David Gordon's 41-yard field goal sailed through the uprights at the north end of Notre Dame stadium, ensuring a 41-39 win for the Eagles, the mood of the Notre Dame community has been somber. 
However, with Sunday's an­nouncement, it might have become worse. 
"I'll admit that the loss was very painful," said Holtz. "But what has been even more painful is that I don't under­stand the logic that has followed it." 
A large part of the anguish that has been welling inside of Notre Dame fans centers around the Irish's spot in the national polls. 
After the two-point, last-second loss to the Eagles, the Irish fell from No. 1 to No.5. 
Just to put the drop in perspective, after Florida State lost to the Irish by seven points, the Seminoles dropped from No. 1 to No. 2. 
The turn of events served to substanti­ate a thought that has become prevalent in the minds of everyone associated with the Notre Dame football program. There are two sets of rules when it comes to the football polls: One for all of the col­lege football teams, and another for Notre Dame. 
One story that adds fuel to the fire occurred after Michigan's win over Ohio State on November 20. 
About 30 sportswriters and voters in the Associated Press poll gathered in the press box to watch the end of the Notre Dame game. 
As Gordon's kick went through the uprights, there was a loud applause. The writers cheered and swapped high fives at Notre Dame's expense. 
A system that is supposed to be impar­tial has turned out to be decidedly against Notre Dame. 
What was once billed as "The Game of the Century" now means virtually noth­ing to the pollsters, as the loss just a week later has overshadowed one of the greatest wins in Notre Dame history. 
The Irish's win in "The Game" is now a distant thought in their minds, and it is that win and those voters that is the key to a split national championship for the Irish. 
If Notre Dame defeats Texas A&M, No. 3 West Virginia loses to Florida in the Sugar Bowl, and Florida State beats No. 1 Nebraska in the Orange Bowl, one would think the voters would be com­pelled to give Notre Dame a share of a split national championship. 
Each team has one loss, and Notre Dame beat Florida State head-to-head late in the year. 
It was the same type of situation in back in 1989. The Irish, having lost the No. 1 ranking in Miami the last game of the season, turned around and beat No. 1 and undefeated Colorado 21-6 in the Orange Bowl. However, despite one loss, Miami won the consensus national title after beating Alabama in the Sugar Bowl. 
"We beat the No. 1 team and Miami won the national championship," said Holtz. "The voters said that Miami won it because they beat us head-to-head late in the year." 
If history is on Notre Dame's side, they will have their share. 
However, that scenario has done noth­ing to heighten Holtz's mood. As it stands right now, the Irish head to Dallas with only that slim chance for just a split national championship. 
With that one kick, an eagerly awaited bowl matchup and chance at the title has melted into another seemingly meaningless bowl game. 
To make matters worse, the Irish are heading into a familiar situation. They are playing at the same location, against the same team that they played in last year's seemingly meaningless bowl game. 
"A lot of the excitement will not be there," admitted Holtz. "If we played in the Sugar Bowl, even though we played there two years ago, half of the team was not there. At the Cotton Bowl, we will likely have the same itinerary as last year." 
Though Holtz emphasized that the Cotton Bowl does a great job hosting the event, he was admittedly disappointed, perhaps joining the rest of Notre Dame's followers in considering what might have been. 
"We lost on a last-second field goal to Boston College," recounted Holtz. "Nebraska beat UCLA 14-13, and then beat Kansas 21-20 when Kansas decid­ed to go for the win. West Virginia beat Virginia Tech 14-13, and Louisville 36­34." 
Holtz knows that if either of those teams had lost, the Irish might be in a much more favorable position. 
But there is a great difference between then and now, and the Irish 
must start preparing for the Texas A&M Aggies, and not Florida State or Nebraska. 
"It's like playing a poker game," said Holtz of playing the Aggies again, "And the other guy knows what your hand is but you don't know what he has." 
The Irish showcased their whole offen­sive package in last year's 28-3 win, including a halfback pass and a middle screen for a touchdown, whereas the Aggies could not get anything going the whole game. 
Furthermore, Texas A&M returns every skill player from that offense, including quarterback Corey Pullig and running backs Greg Hill (who was sus­pended for the Cotton Bowl last year) and Rodney Thomas. 
The Aggies also have the revenge fac­tor working for them. They were unde­feated and ranked third heading into last year's game. 
Coach R.C. Slocum was campaigning for a shot at the national title, saying that his team was not getting enough respect. 
The Irish's blowout of the Aggies was not only humiliating, but it backed up the public's thoughts that a team from the lowly Southwest Conference does not deserve a chance at the title. 
But perhaps the worst factor working against the Irish is motivation. Even if they are over the Boston College loss, the Irish must then gear up to play a team that may have been better last season, in a bowl they would rather not play in. About the only motivating factor that is left is pride. 
"I would think that pride is a pretty big thing to play for," said Holtz. "It's the biggest thing." 
However, this Notre Dame team, which once had a shot at the national championship in its grasp, deserves to be playing for more than just pride. This Notre Dame team had higher hopes than another bowl victory over a top ten team. 
Now, sadly, this is all they may have left to show of their improbable season. 
/ 
Do we have a SUITE DEAL in Dallas for 
NOT 
E FANS! 
Ifyou are planning to come to the 
Mobil Cotton Bowl Classic 
Residence Inn by Marriott Dalla·s Market Center 
Special Cotton Bowl Rates 
•one & two bedroom suites One bedroom suite $109 (max 3 ppl) 
•only 10 miles from the Cotton Bowl 
Two bedroom suite $139 (max 5 ppl) 
•complimentary breakfast daily 
*NO CHARGE for extra people 
•compliment~ry Happy Hour (M-F) 
Early Bird SPECIAL 
Thursday, Dec. 30th (only)
•free parking 

$59 $89
•special rates 

one bedroom two bedroom 

For Reservations Call 
214-631-2472 or 800-331-3131 
6950 N. Stemmons Dallas, Texas 75247 


..... -....... ' ........ . 
Friday, December 10, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 7 
yer for A•ty Year 
Versatile Jeff Burris leaves nothing 
to be desired 
Associate Sports Editor 
rn 
f he could only have a national champi­onship ring, one as big and shiny as his 
ready smile. 
It's the only thing missing in the career of one of the most unique Notre Dame football players since the inception of 



Ol 
.S 
(ij Ol 
c 
::> 
J: 
:Q
>
<0 0 
ffi 
2: 
Q) 
<f) 
..0 
0 
Q) 
~ 

single-platoon football. 
..

The 1993 Observer Player of the Year Jeff Burris is the team MVP, an All-American safety as well as a standout on offense and special teams. 
"The only place he doesn't play is on our extra point team," Irish coach Lou Holtz said, "and he could probably hold for that." 
It's just as well that Burris isn't on the extra point team because he is probably tired 
after scoring all 
those touchdowns. Six this season and 10 in his ca­reer. 
He's a safety by trade, but he's also the safest bet to score inside the 1 0-yard line. 
Short yardage 
situations are where he shines as the final piece to Notre Dame's full house back­
field. ··· · · 
"We had a cou­ple of guys injured {last season) and I was one of several 
tri-captain along with class­testament to the senior leader­
players who tried 
mates Aaron Taylor and Tim ship," Holtz said time and time
out for the position 
and fortunately I Ruddy for the 1993 season. again. "I try to lead by example, No member of this remark­
was chosen as the 
but I'm not a very vocal guy," able senior class has made a
replacement," 
bigger impact than Burris.
Burris said. Fortunately for 
f he could only have
him and for the 
The only place he that ring, one that
Irish. Burris proved doesn•t play is on our now seems like a dis­tant dream.
his value in every 
rn

extra point team, and 
The national cham­aspect of the game 
during his career, he could probably hold pionship will likely be decided in the Orange Bowl, hundreds
scoring 10 touch­for that. 
of miles from Notre Dame's
downs, picking off -Lou Holtz date in Dallas. 
10 passes, collect­
It's Texas A&M again-for
ing more than 100 tackles and pride.
returning a punt 60 yards for 
Burris said. "We have a great "We just have to go downa touchdown. 
senior class and when people there and play our best,"That kind of versatility that 
had something to say, they Burris said. "We're onlyis virtually unheard of in 
said it. The burden of leading responsible for ourselves. We
today's specialized world of 
never fell on just one person." can't control the polls." 
college football. 
Indeed, Notre Dame's senior They can control how they"It's not difficult (playing of­
class is one of its best ever. play and the seniors won't letfense and defense)," he said. 
They arrived in South Bend the final game of their careers"It keeps me in the game all four years ago with no more end the way their final regular
the time because I have to 
accolades than any Irish re­season game ended. 
understand what's going on on 
cruiting class. After January 1, Burris willboth sides of the ball." 
But they will leave a larger begin to focus on his future. legacy than most. He has never been consid­f only he could only Overcoming adversity is as ered a lock to take his game tohave a national cham­
rn 
tradition the next level, but it seems ­
pionship ring, one that much a at Notre 
Dame as national champi­likely that an NFL team could
seemed within his 
onships. The seniors almost find a use for such a versatile
grasp after the win 
accomplished both. talent.
over Florida State that he 
Nobody believed the Irish "It would take a lot of hardhelped orchestrate with a pair were one of the nation's best war k to play against thoseof touchdowns. 
teams when the season began. great players," Burris said.
But a week later it slipped 
Too much adversity and not "But it's definitely a dream of
away with a stunning loss to ..
enough experience, people mine."
Boston College. 
Whether not
"It was just a very empty said. or Burris 
Burris and the rest of the se­makes it in the NFL, he canfeeling," Burris said. "It didn't niors took it upon themselves look back on his college careersink in on Sunday. It was as if 
to prove those people wrong. with pride. 
we never played the game, I "Team unity," Burris said. "Athletically and academi­just wanted it to go away." 
"That's what made the differ­cally. Notre Dame was every­It won't go away, but it is a 
ence for us. We stayed to­thing I expected," he said. 
blemish that will fade in time. 
gether and didn't worry about Jeff Burris was everythingBurris' contributions will not what everyone else thought." Notre Dame expected-andfade. 
"Our success this season is a more.
His teammates elected him a 
( 
r 
' 
I 
page 8 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, December 10, 1993 
: .J () c: K S T. H. I P 

All eyes turn to Orange Bowl showdown 
Perfection 
Games of Interest 
No. 1 Nebraska vs.
isn't enough 
No.2 Florida State The Orange Bowl The Seminoles tangle with the
these days 
Cornhuskers in what has become an annual rite of New Year's Day.
E
choing 

No, that is not a reference to the
from the 

Orange Bowl, it is refering tohills o 
Nebraska's annual New Year's Day
West Virginia are 

thrashing at the hands of what is
the cries of injustice usually a lower-ranked team.

in college football. 

This may not happen every year,The rewards for 
but it is beginning to seem that
the Mountaineers' way. For the last seven yearsundefeated season 

Nebraska has lost their bowl game,
that included wins and this year's game looks like itover Miami and 

Jason Kelly should fit right into the pattern.
Boston College are 

If the transitive property holds true, the Cornhuskers will be in for disappointment and,.________...J 
even worse, a meaningless Sugar Bowl 
some trouble in Miami. In the
matchup with Florida. 

Kickoff Classic, the SeminolesAnd from the rolling plains o 
-#thrashed Kansas 42-0. A few weeksNebraska, those are cries of fear. 
ago, Nebraska squeaked past the
The Cornhuskers will be where they 
Jayhawks 21-20 when Kansas
belong on New Year's Day, in the Orange coach Glen Mason decided to optBowl playing for the national champi­for a two-point conversion insteadonship. 
of go for the tie after scoring a late
But they will be playing powerful 
touchdown.

Florida State, a team with the title game 
Even more evidence of an
shoved into its mouth like a pacifier to 
impending Florida State romp is
appease Bobby Bowden and his most 
how the 'Huskers and their coach
recent unfulfilled expectation. 
reacted after their season-endingNotre Dame deserves the national 
win over Oklahoma. The Nebraska
title more than the Seminoles on the players were chanting, "We want
basis of its regular season dismantling o West Virginia," knowing that they
what many considered one of the best 
would most likely play the
teams ever. 

Seminoles in the Orange Bowl.
But after it lost to Boston College a 
Coach Tom Osborne was thenweek later, the national title became 
asked who he would rather play inabout as realistic as David Gordon hitting 
the bowl, the second-ranked
another 41-yard field goal. 
Seminoles or the third-ranked
A playoff would likely come down to Mountaineers. "Of course we would
a showdown between Notre Dame and rather play the cold-weather team
Florida State. 

that plays on astroturf," said Os­
On the field those are probably the 
borne, who also noted that they
two best teams. 

would be playing the Seminoles in
But college football historically 
Florida.

rewards perfection not potential. 
It looks as if Osborne already has
Losing a game during the regular 
his excuses ready.

season is like losing a limb, you just don't have a leg to stand on when it's time to 
No.3 West VirJP:nia vs.
hand out the hardware. 

No. 8 Flonda
Somehow an amputated Florida 
The Sugar Bowl
State _team hob.bled .and howled its way The Gators sloshed through a winback mto the title p1cture, leaving West 
over Alabama last week to earn a
Virginia only the scraps from the Bowl 
berth to the Sugar Bowl, while
Coalition's table. 

Oh yes, the Bowl Coalition, which includes in its poll a team that cannot even make a bowl appearance. 
Auburn, supposedly serving time for its past.generosity to players, is clouding 
the natwnal championship picture with its asterisked 11-0 record. 
A year ago, the Coalition was hailed as college football's answer to a playo system. 

Now it looks more like a sewer sys­tem, a passage for the sludge that the Jonathan Jensen George Dohrmann pollsters excrete. Overall: 66-44 Overall: 66-44 Half of the voters are sports writers, Last Week: 5-6 Last Week: 7-4 who know more about creating the news than reporting it. Notre Dame Notre Dame UCLA UCLA
Like a banker churning out fake $20 
FSA FSA
bills in some shady warehouse, the 
Miami Arizona
Associated Press voters stuffed the ballot 
Florida Florida
box with Seminole spears, voting for the 
Tennessee Tennessee
game that makes the best story not the 
Boston College Boston College 
one that makes the most sense. 
Michigan Michigan
They voted Florida State No. 1 and 
N. Carolina Alabama
Nebraska No. 2. 

Ohio State Ohio State 
Florida State, losers to Notre Dame 
Louisville Louisville
which lost to Boston College, which lost to West Virginia. 
The writers' standards for the No. 1 team have apparently changed over the last few years. 
The other half of the pollsters are coaches, men with an understanding o the game and what it takes to win. 
They voted Nebraska No. 1 and West Virginia No. 2. 

Perfect. Jason Kelly Tim Seymour But this season perfection just isn't Overall: 62-48 Overall: 36-30 enough. Last Week: 5-6 Last Week: 4-7 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Wisconsin UCLA
SPORTS EXTRA STAFF 
FSA FSA EDITOR: George Dqhrmann 
Florida Miami Arizona Florida
GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan 
Tennessee Tennessee CONTRIBUTING WRITERS: Jason Kelly, 
Boston College Boston College Bryan Connolly, Jonathan Jensen, Mike 
Michigan Michigan Alabama Alabama
Norbut, Timothy Seymour 
Ohio State Ohio State 
Th~ Sports Extra staffwish~s to thank th~ playm and 
Louisville Michigan State 
coach~s ofth~ 1993 f/om Dam~ football tram for th~ir coopaation this y~ar. 
West Virginia turned down the bid to the Cotton Bowl to head to New Orleans and 1.15 million dollars more. 
West Virginia said that their only reason for turning down the bid to the Cotton Bowl was for the differ­ence in pay-out. However, one would think that the Mountaineers, if they wanted to be able to stake claim to a share of the national title with a win, would play the highest ranked team. This would be the Aggies in the Cotton Bowl. 
A win over a sub-par Florida team that is playing with its sec­ond-string quarterback may not impress the voters enough to give the Mountaineers a slice of the national championship pie. 
No. 9 Wisconsin vs. 
No. 13 UClA 
The Rose Bowl 
The Badgers have done the improbable. 
With a 41-20 win over Michigan State is Tokyo, Wisconsin earned its first trip to the Rose Bowl since the mid-'60s. 
Remember, last week's game was moved to Tokyo at a time when no one thought Wisconsin would be competing for a trip to the Rose Bowl. 
The Badgers beat out Ohio State, who looked to be a lock for the Rose Bowl through midseason. In fact, a number of Buckeye players held Roses after their win over Indiana guaranteed them a share of the Big Ten title. 
The Buckeyes may celebrate their share of the title but the Badgers, with the same overall record, are going to Pasadena because they have gone the longest without an appearance. 
The Bruins got into the "Granddaddy of them All" by beat­ing USC 26-20 in the last game of the year. 
So in the end, it will be the first Rose Bowl without Michigan in three years. That has to be a big positive. 
ApTOP25
-~.:; -' -­

COALITION TOP 10 AANKINGS (SUM OF WAITERS & COACHES POLLS) 
1. Nebraska 2,987 6. Tennessee 
2. 
Florida State 2,953 7. Texas A&M 

3. 
West Virginia 2,889 8. Florida 

4. 
Notre Dame 2,722 9. Wisconsin 

5. 
Auburn 2,686 10. Miami JBA 



In its final week The Observer sports staff 
decided to ask the guys next to them at the bart odo Peerless. It just happened to be few Irish hockey stars who were barely sober enough to speak. 
Observer Sports Staff 
Last week: 21-23 
vs CCHA Performers 
Last week's guests: 15-29 
#7 Texas A&M vs #1 Notre Dame #14 UCLA vs #9 Wisconsin #1 FSU vs #2 Nebraska #8 Florida vs #3 West Virginia #10 Miami vs #16 Arizona #6 Tennessee vs #13 Penn State #15 Boston College vs Virginia #23 Michigan vs N.C. State #18 Alabama vs #12 North Carolina #11 Ohio State vs BYU Michigan State vs #25 Louisville 
Ben Nelsen Defenseman 
Notre Dame Wisconsin FSA Florida Miami Tennessee Boston College Michigan 
N. Carolina Ohio State Louisville 
Brett Lamppa Forward 
Notre Dame UCLA FSA Miami Florida Penn State Boston College Michigan Alabama Ohio State Michigan State 


Matt Osieda 
Defenseman 

Notre Dame Wisconsin FSA West Virginia Miami Tennessee Boston College Michigan Alabama Ohio State Michigan State 
Jamie Ling Center 
Notre Dame Wisconsin FSA West Virginia Miami Tennessee Boston College Michigan Alabama Ohio State Louisville 

,. I 
// 



