----~---~-~----------------------~------------------------------------------~--------~----------.--------------­

.~-'; 1 .. 

,_ Wednesday1 March-2-3,-1994• Vol. XXVI No. 116 , Tl f E IN DE PEN DENT N EWSPAPI" lz St RVI NG NC)TRE DAM LAND SAl NT MARY'S 

Grapevine established to ease DART process 
By KATE CRISHAM Assistant News Editor 
The scene is familiar-a few days before DART time, dorm hallways become filled with frantic freshmen and sopho­mores questioning upper­classman for the "inside infor­mation" on various classes, teachers or majors. The unfor­tunate result of this confused and disorganized "advising sys­tem"-or lack thereof-is often poor decisions and serious mis­takes in course selection. 
But these days of DART con­fusion may be over. 
The Grapevine, an informal, dorm-wide and campus-wide network of student advisors linking underclassmen with other students of similar majors and academic interests, is an attempt by the Student Government Committee on Undergraduate Education to alleviate some of the confusion. Co-chair people Matthew Umhoefer and Amy Mapother established the program in re­sponse to student concerns about a lack of departmental advising systems which truly meet the needs of students. 

"Some of the best advising, and some of the only real advis­ing at the University, goes on in the dorm," said Umhoefer. "The Grapevine is basically the institutionalization of what al­ready goes on in the dorms around DART time." 
Sign-up sheets inviting up­perclassmen to share their knowledge regarding classes, majors and other academic matters were distributed to the dorms through the Hall Presidents Council. Umhoefer 
see DART I page 4 

History in the making 
Notre Dame baseball player Robbie Birk scored the first run in the new Frank Eck Baseball Stadium at yesterday's game against Indiana University. The Irish defeated the Hoosiers 7-6. 


Panel addresses South Africa 
By WENDY GRZYWACZ News Writer 
In the wake of recent violence in Johannesburg, the "awk­ward painful transition" of power in South Africa was ad­dressed by a panel of Notre Dame students and professors yesterday. 
The transitional roles of labor, education, the Constitution, church and women, were the focuses of the discussion, moderated by Professor Peter Walshe and sponsored by the African and African-American Studies Program and the African­American Student Alliance. 

"One should not be too pes­simistic, as a remarkable amount has been achieved de­spite spoilers," Walshe com­mented as he outlined the his­tory of the apartheid regime and the "internal upheaval, prolonged and very tense nego­tiations, and escalating vio­lence" that has characterized the political situation up until the proposed April 26-28 elec­frames the structure of the gov­maintain pressure on the whole tions for all races. ernment until a new transitional process," said 
"South Africa must reclaim its Constitution is formed after the Fatima Shabodian, a South 
. .

lost generation or we will have electwns. African student in the Peace hell to pay," said Cornelius "A spirit of national unity will Institute. Domestic violence, Thomas, a visiting professor in be built up" with this docu­legal access, patriarchy and the history department from ment, said Steenkamp. More lack of representation call for a South Africa. Thomas dis­power delegated to the nine "unified, realistic strategy." cussed the status of labor and provinces. a comprehensive Bill said Shabodian of the women's education, outline the damag­of Rights, and a president elect­movement. ing history of apartheid as "es­ed by the Assembly, "which Education drawing from stu­sentially a system of labor con­everyone assumes will be dents own experiences with trol" as the working conditions Nelson Mandela," highlight the human rights is successful em­left "children with absentee significant implications of the powerment through education, parents and parents with invis­Constitution. according to South African ible children." The role of the church in Garth Meintjes. Meintjes is an­
''Education on a free and mediations as a "voice of the other student in the Center for equal basis is still not equal." voiceless" was addressed by Human Rights. said Thomas. as he character­Tristan Borer. Its "difficulty in The panel was organized by ized the possibility of educa­maintaining a prophetic voice, Walshe and Guillaume tional inequalities based on a willingness to criticize the new Zounlome, president of the system where, "our children government and likelihood of African-American Student have been sacrificed for returning to a normal state of Alliance. "It is necessary to decades at the white suburban affairs" were possible setbacks keep people aware of the cur­breakfast table." Borer identified. Borer, a stu­rent situation in South Africa 
"The Constitution will play a dent working on her doctoral and how it is evolving with the very important role in the tran­dissertation in the government upcoming eTf:ctions, and help sition," said Anton Steenkamp, department will work with a them to better understand," a student in the Center for State Department contingency, said Zounlome. Human Bights of the Notre monitoring the upcoming elec­"We are extremely lucky to Dame Law School. Steenkamp tions in South Africa. have a panel of this caliber at discussed the importance of Despite the marked diversity Notre Dame," said WaJshe of this transitional document, as it of the group, "women need to the qualified participants. 


Kid Corp. program revival led by Nolan 
ByJASON WILLIAMS overcome 'challenge courses' Associate News Ediror in the woods and other obsta­cles." 
Nobody has ever claimed Nolan said one of Kids Newark, New Jersey to be Camp's most exciting exercises heaven, but there is somebody is simply taking a shovel, dig­who is trying to make the city a ging up a clump of earth and little less like hell. turning it over. 
Mike Nolan is trying to rekin­"The kids go nuts when they dle Kids Corporation, a non­see there are actual living profit summer camp/school for things in there like worms and 
Newark's inner-city children, bugs," he said. out of the ashes of what it once Field trips to industrial, busi­was. Now, with a 96 percent ness and other notable sites attendance rate from the sum­near Newark are also a vital mer of 1993 backing him up, part of Kids Corp. Nolan is looking for America's best college students to help Summer 1993 field trips Kids Corp. exceed all his expec­included the New Jersey tations. Meadowlands, the Center for 
He was at Notre Dame last Environmental Studies, the week recruiting students inter­Newark Fire Department, ested in spending a summer in Edison Labs, the New Jersey 
Newark teaching underprivi­Historical Society and the leged kids and learning from Newark Museum. the experience. Nolan started Kids Corp. in 
"It will undoubtedly be the 1969 when he was 19 and still worst job you will ever have. in college. The pay's terrible, you'll work At its height, Kids Corp. had long hours and you'll be direct­44 different programs run by ly responsible for everything 200 college students in the 
you do," he said. Newark area. But Nolan said 
"Though it sounds like a he got burnt out and retired cliche, it's not just a job, it's an when he was 33. experience." When Nolan left, Kids Corp. 
Internships run from June 25 began falling apart. Enrollment to Aug. 19. Pay is approxi­numbers declined and com­mately $100 per week includ­munity interest dwindled. ing room and board. 
Interns who teach are re­Now, after working as a cor­sponsible for creating lesson porate attorney for a presti­plans for their particular class. gious New Jersey law firm, 
Approximately 2,000 K-5 stu­Nolan is back, and he is deter­dents are taught at various mined to make Kids Corp. even sights throughout Newark. more successful than what it 
once was. 

A vital part of the classroom Nolan said he will make Kids experience includes Kids Camp, Corp. successful again with the a 125 acre outdoor classroom help of America's college stu­near Blaristown, New Jersey. dents. 
Approximately 200 kids from "I keep reading in magazines 
the Kids Corp. program visit and newspapers that today's the camp each day. college students are unmoti­"If the kids have perfect at­vated and slackers. That's just 
tendance for the week in the not true," Nolan said. classroom than we reward ''I've been recruiting since them by taking them to Kids 1969 and to say that today's Camp," Nolan said. students are in any way less 
"Kids Camp is not arts and motivated to do service than crafts and swimming. It is a those of the 60s, 70s, and 80s is day for each child to face and simply not true." 


page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, March 31, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
The dollars 
behind 


scents 
The University could have a gold mine right under its nose, literally. 
It is time for Notre Dame to go the way of Elizabeth Taylor and bottle its own fragrances and market them for much profit. 

What fragrances, you might ask. But just sniff M' h 1O'H 
around, you will find that •c ae ara 
Notre Dame has many Assistant News Editor unique smells of its own that could be as success­ful as Giorgio or Obsession on the perfume and cologne market. 
Let's start with one of our perennial favorites -Methanol. When the wind is blowing just right out of South Bend, the campus is blanket­ed in a most intriguing and pungent aroma. This could become one of the signature names in the Notre Dame fragrance market. It could easily sell for $200 and ounce. 
Another coveted smell that could be converted into pure gold is equally as common -Dining Hall. Not simply the smell of broiled turbot or baked ziti, but the overall scent of the dining hall atmosphere. This smell thoroughly enhances the meal experience. The University could employ an Poison-esque advertising cam­paign with Patty O'Hara becoming a replace­ment for the pencil-thin Kate Moss. I can hear those registers just ringing in the money for the endowment. 
With spring attempting a return to Notre Dame, an old favorite scent will soon be all across campus -Gardening Mulch. Ah, the sweet smell of wet bark, dirt and that mystery ingredient which enhances those chance cam­pus walks when the weather gets above freez­ing. I see all the women of France soon depositing drops of this fragrance seductively behind their ears and on their supple wrists. 
LaFortune would provide two of the more higher class women's perfumes available ­Entryway and Laundry Room. 
Being able to bottle the rare combination o electric heater and secondary smoke would rev­olutionize the aroma market. Calvin Klein will be shaking in his Italian shoes and Coco Chane} will turn over in her grave as Entryway rockets to classic status. 
Not to be outdone by its LaFortune coun­terpart, Laundry Room will also ascend to fra­grance notoriety. The refreshing mix of fresh linen and Tide detergent form a pleasing bou­quet for the modern working woman. However, the University will have to watch out for those knock-off brands like Primo which will seek to duplicate the innovative odor for their own profit. 
With all these new and cutting-edge fra­grances on the market making substantial prof­its for the University, tuition could be cut, new student services could be provided and renova­tions and additions could take place in all University buildings. 
If the market needed expanding even further 
the University could tap into the individual 
scents of each dorm as each of them have a dis­
tinct nasal sense ali its own. 

All this profit for Notre Dame would be just 
gravy. It could rival the millions made by the 
NBC contract. It could even be as successful as 
the Notre Dame chocolates that sell for $5 and 
$10 a box. Just think of it. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production 
Corinne Dcran Cheryl Moser 
Patti Carson Kathie Young 
Sports Accent 
Mike Norbur Lynn Bauwens 
Viewpoint Mary Good 
SuzyFry Graphics 
Lab Tech Chris Mullins Wendy Vestevich 
The Ob~rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Guatemalan mob threatens Alaskan woman amidst rumors 
GUATEMALA CITY 
An Alaskan woman caught up in hysteria over rumors that Americans are stealing children was transferred to a hospital in the capital Wednesday after suffering severe injuries at the hands of a rural mob. 
The condition of Diane Werntock Jung, 52, was described by her physician as "rather bad." 
The State Department warned Americans on Wednesday to exer­cise caution in traveling in Guatemala because of "the hyste­ria that has come about." 
Jung was the third foreigner known to have been attacked in Guatemala in recent days over rumors that children are being stolen. Some versions allege for­eigners are taking children to sell body parts for transplant opera­tions. 
U.S. officials say no evidence has been found to support the stories. 
"All Guatemalans must take responsibility," said Salvador Figuroa, the head of Guatemala's national police. "Information about child-stealing has been ma­nipulated by the local press. There have been very few thefts and most have been resolved." 
Jung was attacked Tuesday in the northern town of San Cristobal after a peasant woman screamed that the American had tried to steal her 8-year-old boy. She took 
Eastwood testifies on friend's behalf 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 
A businessman in trouble needed a character witness, not just a "Man With No Name," but longtime friend Clint Eastwood. The 63-year-old filmmaker and actor testified Tuesday at the bank fraud trial of Pebble Beach Co. President Thomas Oliver. Eastwood said he had known Oliver for about 30 years and served on a number of boards with him. "I've always found him extremely 

straightforward in any dealings I've had with him," Eastwood said. On cross-examination, Eastwood ac­knowledged he knew nothing about the $400,000 loan from a Texas banker that led to criminal charges against Oliver. 

New Mercedes able to sense accidents 
STUTTGART, Germany 
Mercedes-Benz said Wednesday it is developing a com­puter safety system aimed at helping cars avoid acci­dents. The "handling control system" will first appear on some mid-1995 European S-Class models and will reach the U.S. market during the 1996 model year, said Karl­Heinz Faber, Mercedes-Benz of North America's senior vice president in charge of product compliance, service and parts. On the drawing boards for several years, the system could be especially useful on slippery roads and in powerful winds. It is being developed by Mercedes-Benz and the Robert Bosch electronics company as a next step beyond the anti-lock braking and electronic traction con­trol systems pioneered by the two companies, Faber said. According to a news release from the luxury carmaker, the system uses electronic sensors and computer logic to calculate every second if the car is going exactly in the di­rection it is being steered. 
Adanu Baltimore Bosron Chicago Colombus Dallas 


refuge in a judge's office in the municipal building but was assault­ed by a mob of hundreds of Guatemalans with sticks, clubs, machetes and stones. 
She initially was taken to a hosital in Cob an, about 7 5 miles from the capital, and diagnosed with eight stab wounds, a broken arm and a probable fractured skull. 
The 8-year-old she was accused of stealing turned up later at a Holy Week ~elebration. 
The army sent soldiers to San Cristobal and about 15 people were arrested. 
Three weeks ago, Melissa Larson of Taos, N.M., was attacked by a mob south of Guatemala City for similar reasons and was taken into protective custody by police. Despite a lack of evidence against her, she was detained 18 days before being released Friday. 
A Swiss expert on volcanoes doing research in Guatemala was attacked and slightly injured last weekend when villagers accused him of child­stealing. 
The U.S. Embassy in Guatemala said a senior Public Health Ministry official, Guillermo Targena, has in­
flamed sentiments against Americans and other for­
eigners by publicizing the rumor about child-stealing. The rumor has circulated in some Third World coun­
tries, including Guatemala and neighboring Honduras, 
for years but no proof has ever been offered. 

Norway takes five-day Easter break 
OSLO, Norway 

Norwegians left at home during one of the world's longest state holidays must feel as if they missed the great Easter egg hunt. The change in city life is so spooky for some that the Red Cross has programs for lonely left-behinds to find solace with other lonely left­behinds. "There are Easter cafes, and bus trips and that kind of thing," said Unni Kristoffersen of the Red Cross. The traffic snarls of workday life are gone. Sidewalks are nearly empty. Since the 1700s, the Easter holiday in Norway has legally been five days long, starting Thursday and lasting through Monday. But many Norwegians stretch it to 10 days, starting the exodus last Saturday. During the last workdays before the holiday, anyone attempting to do business is likely to find that there isn't anyone to do business with. 

New candidate enters Mexican race 
MEXICO CITY 

Most of Mexico's longtime ruling party rallied behind its new presidential candidate Wednesday, but some Mexicans criticized the selection as undemocratic. Party branches from throughout Mexico bought newspaper advertisements in support of Ernesto Zedillo, 42, the overwhelming favorite to be Mexico's next president. The new candidate spent a quiet day at the headquarters of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, accepting congratulations from party loyalists. "It is a day of hope because the PRI has chosen an exceptional Mexican as candidate," said Treasury Secretary Pedro Aspe, who had been considered a potential candidate. The party spokesman's office said officials had not yet decided when to officially file Zedillo's candidacy with the Federal Electoral Institute. The previous candidate, Luis Donaldo Colosio, was assassinated March 23 during a campaign appearance in Tijuana. 
69  41  Denver  59  22  New York  51  37  
55  35  Friendswood  74  43  Philadelphia  53  37  
49  35  Los Angel~  75  56  Phoenix,  84  55  
46  24  Miami  78  67  St. Louis  48  33  
51  28  Minneapolis  43  19  San Francisco  63  51  
59  46  New Orleans  71  38  Seattle  58  49  

INDIANA Weather 
Thursday, March 31 Accu-Weather<» forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, March 31. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  C 1994 Accu-Weather. Inc.  
H  L  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T·STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  


~~ -------------~------~--~-­
Thursday, March 31, f994 

The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Troops removed hom Gaza 
By DONNA ABU-NASR 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip 
The forest of antennas and 
military tents that sprouted up 
in downtown Gaza are gone, a 
sign of Israel's preparations for 
an imminent pullout. 
Hisham Abdel-Razzak, the top PLO official in Gaza, esti­mated that the Israelis have removed about 70 percent of their equipment from Arab towns in the Gaza Strip and will be ready to withdraw immedi­ately once an agreement is signed. 
"Their withdrawal will be much quicker than anybody expects. It will take place in a matter of hours," Abdel-Razzak said Wednesday. 
A Defense Ministry official confirmed that the army had reduced its presence by as much as 90 percent. 
But for most of Gaza's nearly one million Palestinian resi­dents, seeing is not believing. 
Weary of long-delayed promises of a withdrawal, they look at the changes with suspi­cion. 
Incidents, such as the army killing of six armed Fatah activists Monday, deepen their mistrust. 
"We haven't noticed any changes since the Israelis be­gan their pullout," said Hussam J a mil, 21, a boutique owner. "The army is still in the streets, carrying out the same old prac­tices -shooting, arresting, beating." 
Also, Palestinian and Western observers note that the number of troops in the strip has not changed much, only the infrastructure has 


moved. Dec. 13 and complete the with­
"They have withdrawn build­drawal by April 13. There are ings and tents, but the army halting attempts in Cairo to get has not been pulled out," said the talks restarted. Ali Sharqawi, 49, a shoe store Foreign Minister Shimon owner, Peres hinted Wednesday that 
Talks on Israel's withdrawal Israel might withdraw from the from the Gaza Strip and West strip even before an agreement Bank town of Jericho were is concluded. Asked by Israel halted when a Jewish settler television if it would consider massacred 30 Palestinians in a such a unilateral move, Peres Hebron mosque Feb. 25. said: "every reasonable pro­
Israel was supposed to begin posal will be judged thor­implementing the agreement on oughly." 
CELEBRATE THE RESURRECTION 
EASTER SERVICES FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH 333 N. Main (comer Main & Madison Sts.) Downtown, South Bend 
6:00a.m. SUNRISE VIGIL 

7:30 -10:30 a.m. -Easter Breakfast, Social Hall 
8:45 a.m. CELEBRATION SERVICE 


Music by the Sanctuary Choir and the Celebrated Ringers 
11:00 a.m.-TRADITIONAL EASTER SERVICE Music by the Brass Ensemble, Covenant and Sanctuary Choirs, and the Celebrated Ringers 
EASTER MESSAGE: "Stone or Stone Roller?"-Dr. Smith Nursery care throughout the morning. Parking behind church, at Scottish Rite & Jr. Achievement 
Dr. Ellwood ("Woody") Smith, Senior Pastor Tim Robison, Director of Music/Organist Cindy Solum, Director of Christian Education and Youth Ministries 
r---------, 
: 2-14" Large : 1 1Topping Pizzas 1 
.._ ______ .J 
I  $1195  +Tax  I  
I  I  
IAddnional Toppillg.l 9St each  ~.I  

_
INnt Vahd With Any Other Coupon 

271--1177 
PLO, Israel progres~s; need further discussion 
By MARIAM SAMI 
Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt 
Israel and the PLO agreed on Wednesday to a police force of 100 Palestinians in the West Bank town of Hebron, but still argued over the makeup of a foreign observer mission there, PLO sources said. 
An Israeli official said late Wednesday that many prob­lems remained. 
The PLO has demanded pro­tection for Hebron's 80,000 residents before returning to overall peace talks on Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho. 
The broader talks have been halted since Feb. 25 when a 
Jewish  settler  killed  30  
Palestinians  in  a  Hebron  
mosque.  

The Israeli army's slaying Monday of six PLO activists in the occupied Gaza Strip threat­ened to again disrupt the nego­tiations. 
Yaacov Setty, spokesman for Israel's Embassy in Cairo, said he believed the talks were set back by the Gaza shootings and subsequent rioting by Palestinians. Before Monday's killings, negotiators had indi­cated they might reach agree­ment quickly. 
"Maybe what happened in Gaza made for some difficulties in the negotiations. What we did yesterday (Tuesday} was overcome difficulties that arose," Setty said. 
Sources at PLO headquarters in Tunis, Tunisia, said the two sides agreed Wednesday that 
as many as 100 Palestinians 

would join Israeli forces on 
their patrols in Hebron. 
But disagreements remained 

on the number and nationali­
ties of foreign observers to be 
sent to Hebron, said the 
sources, who spoke on condi­
tion of anonymity. 
The PLO has demanded 

American and Russian ob­
servers as part of the force, ar­
guing that a U.N. Security 
Council resolution condemning 
the massacre urged an "inter­
national" presence. 
Israel wants only observers 

from Norway, which was 
deeply involved in the secret 
talks that led to the Israel-PLO 
accord in September. 
Israel also is insisting the observers be under Israeli con­trol. 
The arguments have as much to do with politics as protection of Hebron's Palestinians. The PLO wants an international force to undermine the idea of continued Israeli rule. Israel has always resisted any foreign interference during its 26-year occupation of the West Bank and Gaza. 
Setty said negotiators were working on final details of the security plan for Hebron, but would not say when an agree­ment might be announced. 
''They are trying to finish with Hebron matters as soon as possible to move on to Jericho­Gaza," he told reporters. 
The talks have been compli­cated by the need to get ap­proval from Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in Jerusalem and PLO chief Yasser Arafat in Tunis. 
r--------,
Pizza, Bread
1 

1Stix, and 2 cans1 I of Coca...Cola® I : $1QOO •Tu : 
IAddir~al Toppings 95t each ~-~ 
.._. ______ _.J
I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon 
Congressman Natcher dies of heart failure 
By JENNIFER LOVEN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Rep. William Natcher, a courtly and ever-vigilant Democratic lawmaker who earned a place in the Guinness Book of World Records for his unbroken string of 18,401 votes in Congress, has died at age 84. 
"His death was peaceful and in the company of his family and friends," said a statement today from Natcher's office. 


The Kentucky congressman 

died of heart failure at 
Bethesda Naval Hospital near 
Washington, according to the 
statement read by a staff assis­
tant Ann Farace. 
Natcher, who died Tuesday 

night, was chairman of the 
powerful House Appropriations 
Committee, which controls 
most discretionary spending. 
His record 40-year string of 
consecutive floor votes ended 
March 3 when his failing health 
prevented him from reaching 
the Capitol. 
A day earlier, he was wheeled onto the House floor on a gurney for what would be his final vote, hooked to oxygen and intravenous tubes. 
Natcher's record of consecu­tive votes and quorum calls earned him an entry in the Guinness Book of World Records. The House halted business to honor him when the voting streak hit 18,000 last June. 
In an effort to allow him to continue his streak, House leaders postponed business on March 1. 
The day he missed voting, President Clinton visited Natcher in the hospital and presented him the Presidential Citizens' Medal, the nation's second-highest civilian award. 
"Some may think that Bill Natcher's death marks the end of an era in politics," Clinton said in a statement today. "I hope not. I hope that Congressman Natcher's devo­tion to public service serves as an inspiration to the young men and women of American for as long as his voting record stands." 
-~~--~----------------------­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, March 31, 1994 
after freshman year, and you're really screwed if you haven't
DART Nuclear test ban considered 
figured out your major by • 
continued from page 1 sophomore year," he said. "So By CLARE NULLIS January. test ban treaty. which has been 
the Grapevine gives students Associated Press The committee finishes its ratified by 116 nations. and Mapother then alphabet­someone to talk to." spring session Thursday. In The United States, Russia, ized the names by major and by "Finally, the advice you get GENEVA May it will start examining con­Britain and France have sus­dorm, and posted the informa­in the Grapevine is given by A total ban on nuclear crete proposals, including such pended all testing in recent 
students, and therefore is going 
tion in the dorms. weapons testing may be agreed tricky issues as anti-cheating months. China carried out an "The good thing about this is to reflect student concerns to next year after eluding the devices and eventual sanctions underground test last October,
about classes, majors and
that it is completely voluntary," world for decades. against violators. touching off worldwide 
professors," said Umhoefer. "A
said Umhoefer. "We didn't try Overwhelming support exists Satellites, seismic stations protests.
lot of the advice you might get 
to match students with advisors for a speedy Comprehensive and other technological Beijing developed a nuclear 
or set up meetings-no one from a professor reflects their Test Ban Treaty to cover both advances have made it much capability much later than the would go. Students want flexi­concerns, but the Grapevine underground and atmospheric easier to detect explosions, so other four powers and feels it bility-they want to just be able gets information to students at explosions, the negotiating verification of any prohibition is needs to catch up. 
their level." 
to talk to someone whenever committee chairman reported no longer seen as a real prob­Marin-Bosch said signs have they can." Umhoefer is confident that Wednesday. lem. emrged that China was prepar­
the Grapevine will have a posi­
"This also allows· flexibility to "There is a sense that this The United States, the Soviet ing for another test explosion.
tive impact on students and
the advisors-all they have to treaty is do-able and that it is Union and Britain agreed on a But he said Beijing was com­
their academic choices. 
do is return a phone call and do-able in a relatively short partial test ban in 1963 cover­mitted to a comprehensive test 
"Students are taking advan­

talk about what they know," he time -12 to 18 months," ing tests in the atmosphere, ban by no later than 1996. 
tage of it already," he pointed
said. "It's informal and casual, Miguel Marin-Bosch of Mexico outer space and underwater. The Clinton administration 
out. "I see guys in the dorm
and it serves a real need." told a news conference. But Washington and Moscow and most other countries want Umhoefer emphasized that stopping to read the lists and Marin-Bosch presides over continued underground testing the ban to be agreed to next 
writing down names and room
the casual, student-oriented the nuclear test ban committee during their Cold War rivalry, year.
numbers."
advising system of the of the 38-nation Conference on arguing this was necessary to This would coincide with a 
"I've heard that some of the 

Grapevine fills a void at Notre Disarmament. ensure the safety and reliability review of the Nuclear Non­
"advisors" have already had
Dame. After years of Cold War stale­of weapons. Proliferation Treaty, which is 
people stopping by," he said.
"The University basically al­mate, negotiations on a com­Nuclear powers China and meant to stop the spread of
"So it is working." 
lows students to drift aimlessly plete test ban started in France never signed the partial nuclear weapons. 
ANC's ·link to communists may affect elections 
By PAISLEY DODDS Communist Party are one and tlements, are drawn to the up a land claims court to hear Klerk tells his rallies. Associated Press the same," said Todd, who runs Communist Party with its his­grievances under reform pro­''I'm not afraid of the South 
a Johannesburg sporting goods tory of opposing apartheid and grams aimed at distributing African Communist Party ­
JOHANNESBURG,SouthAfrica business. its calls for land and wealth re­property more equitably among they're pushovers. But they are 
Paul Todd is young, white and In the closing weeks of the distribution. the black majority. dangerous because they occupy liberal. He supports the end of election campaign, the National But for South Africa's white Hoping to reduce the ANC's key positions in the ANC." apartheid, and Party has been pounding the minority, at least, the ANC's expected wide victory margin in The ANC says it has only 16 he'd like to front-running African National admitted Communist ties are a the April 26-28 election, Communists in its top 50 posts, give the ANC a Congress for its ties with South source of anxiety if not outright President F. W. de Klerk's and only 27 among all 200 of its 
chance to gov­
African Communists. fear. National Party has been high­Parliament candidates, who are ern. But he Full-page newspaper ads Communism was illegal in lighting the number of ranked by order of seniority
won't vote for show a salivating wolf marked South Africa from the 1950s Communists on the ANC's elec­and will earn seats dependingit in April's by a hammer-and-sickle walk­until 1990 and has always been tion ticket. on how much of the vote the election. ing beneath a sheepskin with painted as an ogre that will The party claims that 28 out­ANC wins. 
"The more I the ANC logo. "What lies be­seize homes, prop~rty and pri­of the ANC's top 50 candidates Many of the Communists are hear about F.W. de Klerk neath the ANC?" the ad ques­vate wealth for sharing among for Parliament are present or high enough on the ANC list to state inter-tions. "Communist lies!" the impoverished masses. former Communists. be assured of Parliament seats. 
vention and The tactic could backfire. The ANC and its Communist "The ANC is linked to hard­Communist Party leader Joe nationalization, the more I Many blacks, especially the 7 Party members have proposed core socialism which has failed Slovo, for example, is the ANC's think the ANC and the million living in squatter set-taxing the wealthy and setting throughout the world," de No. 4 candidate. 

Rental Units Now 
vailable 
• 
1/4 Mile from Library •Washer & Dryer Units 

• 
Brand New Appliances • Large Closets 

•2 
Bedrooms • Covered Parking 

• 
2 Bathrooms • Security System 


• Large Balconies 

-








Going Quickly • $660 per month 
-~-~-------------------------------­
~-­
Thursday, March 31, 1994 

The Observer • NEWS page 5 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 

• Jay Hosler. Notre Dame engage ··~ or1gtn . researc in graduate student and creator University laboratories. +k · or the comic strip ..Spelunker," Miller's own research-which was recently selected a semi-he believes is complement~ry finalist in the.1993 Charles to his teaching--centers on his Schulz/College .. Cartoon.tst recent discovery of • means to Award. a category of the "sneak.. antibiotics into germs. Scripps Howard Foundation The new technique has the National Journalism Awards. potential to restore potency to His entry was one often select-old antibiotics worn out by ed from a totaLof191 entries. gennresistance. .:v "Spelunker" has run ln Tbe Miller recieved his bachelor's Observer for five years. degree.in chemistry fronfNorth Dakota State University fu 1971 • Marvin Miller. associate and earned master's and ·doc­chair and professor of chem­. toral degrees from· CoJ".nell istryand biochemistryt has University in bio,.organie chem­been awarded the 1994 istry. He engaged in twtryears Shilts/Leonard ·Teaching Award of post*doctoral researcltatthe in the College of Science. University of California· according to· Dean Francis Berkeley bef9re coming to Castellino. Notre Dame. • ; . a. ··. · A member of the Notre Dame The Bhilts!Leona.rd ~w~rd fae;ulty since 19[7. Milltir was ll)Stltl,lt~d ln'<19B~, ~o teaches organic chemistry for . memorializ~ Father \ia.xrtes undergraduates and supervises Shilts, a longtime Notre llama organic chemi~try seminars as astronQmyand astJ;ophyslcs weU as graduate research..·He professor who dies iJ.t.,..£~~2. also has beep, involve4Jn Notr~ .. T.he a\V.l"d ~as·.. eP.4:{QW~-~ byl>~lll~:~.Researel:(~E~p¢,denpe> ·Bug ne t·········.···.·.d ,,... ·····················.··· ···· or Undergraduates:: a~unun.etf.. · and~'l[jj~~ftifn1~ ·. £11fi~ pro raw.·.in whicJi stude~tts . J,Jniversii~ !;if:l' r .::·!ffi;i;;'t1i:t~i''*iii'.i·.•  
WATCH FOR DETAILS!  
Congratulations! The Student Union Board is still accepting applications for the 1995 Sophomore Literary Festival -pick them up in the SUB office, second floor of LaFortune. The deadline for the applications is April 8th. STUDENT UNION BOARD  

Actors and actresses in action 
Students performed in "The Summoning of Every Man" at the Lafortune Student Center Ballroom last night. The play was sponsored by the English Department. 
Hasidic Jews argue for special school district 
By LAURIE ASSEO Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The constitutional separation of church and state allows cre­ation of a public school district to accommodate an insular Hasidic Jewish community's beliefs, the Supreme Court was told Wednesday. 
"We believe that is part of the spirit of accommoda­tion" of reli­gion allowed by the Constitution's F i r s t 


Amendment,  William  
a t t o r n e y  Rehnquist  
Nathan  

Lewin argued for the school district for disabled children in the New York village of Kiryas Joel. 
But a lawyer for state school board oflicials said the district's creation violated the amend­ment's concurrent ban on gov­ernment establishment of reli­gion. 
"New York state has offered its arm to these individuals to be able to run a school dis­trict," attorney Jay Worona told the court. "The purpose is ... segregation along religious lines.'' 
Lewin asked the court to overturn a New York court rul­ing that said the district uncon­stitutionally created a "symbol­ic union" between the govern­ment and the Satmar Hasidic sect. School district officials also hope the court will use the case to throw out its longstand­ing test for interpreting the separation of church and state. 
The court ruled in 1971 that laws or government practices are unconstitutional if they have a religious purpose, pri­marily advance or promote reli­gion or excessively entangle government and religion. Many of the justices have criticized that standard, but so far the court has not replaced it. 
The court has used the three-part test in deciding numerous church-state issues such as what types of govern­ment aid can be provided to parochial schools. But in 1992 it sidestepped the standard in reaffirming the longstanding ban on officially sponsored prayers in public schools. The court is allowing the 
Kiryas Joel school district in Orange County, N.Y., to con­tinue operating until it issues a ruling, expected by late June. 
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor expressed concern Wednesday that the district was created by a separate state law instead of one that applied statewide. 
But Justice Antonin Scalia suggested the state was seeking to accommodate the Hasidic Jewish children's cultural dif­ferences, not.their religion. 
"I don't see how the state is accommodating any of their re­ligious beliefs. The state is not allowing worship in the school, is it?" Scalia asked. 
New York lawmakers created the district in 1989 after village residents withdrew their dis­abled children from other pub­lic schools, saying they were traumatized by attending class­es outside Kiryas Joel. 
Virtually all of Kiryas Joel's 12,000 residents are members of the Satmar Hasidic sect, which maintains an insular community where people wear special clothing, follow a strict schedule of prayer and study and generally speak Yiddish. Children who are not disabled attend private religious schools in the village where girls and boys are educated separately. 
Lewin said the Kiryas Joel school is non-religious and teaches secular classes to mixed groups of boys and girls -about 60 full-time and 140 part-time students. 
But Worona said creating the district "communicates a mes­sage of endorsement" of the Satmar Hasidic religion. 
Such laws "will not only frag­ment our nation but have chil­dren believe that the way to deal with this diversity is to have government separate peo­ple along religious lines," Worona said. 
Chief Justice William Rehnquist questioned whether Worona's view would bar a group of Roman Catholics who live in a particular area from setting up a separate school district. 
"What you're saying is that the Satmar, because they live together, can't exercise the or­dinary kind of secular authority that any other group living to­gether could," Rehnquist said. 
But Justice David H. Souter wondered whether creating a separate school district went further than necessary. 
--·--~-----------------------------------­
page6 The Observer • EUROPEAN NEWS Thursday, March 31, 1994 

New countries added 
to European group 
By SALLYJACOBSEN 
Associated. Press 
BRUSSELS, Belgium 
After weeks of delays, the European Union concluded membership agreements Wednesday that pave the way for admission of Austria, Finland, Norway and Sweden to the 12-nation union on Jan. 1. 
In a final round of bargain­ing, EU ambassadors finished off accords that had been left dangling by a bitter dispute over power-sharing in an ex­panded union. 
Each nation's entry must still be approved by its voters in a referendum and the EU's 518­seat parliament, which is ex­pected to vote May 4 on the membership treaties. 
If all goes smoothly, the new nations will join on New Year's Day. 
They will be the first new members in nearly a decade, expanding the union to 16 and making it a more powerful eco­nomic and political rival with the United States. 

"We hope the enlargement will strengthen the political will of the European Union," said Yannos Kranidiotis, a Greek Foreign Ministry official who chaired the meeting. Greece holds the EU's rotating presi­dency. 
Austria, Finland and Sweden had negotiated admission terms on agriculture, membership fees and other issues on March 1, and Norway, wrangling with the union over fishing rights, did so about a week later. 
But final agreement was held up because of a refusal by Britain and Spain to accept changes in voting rules in an expanded union. 
The dispute was resolved on Tuesday when British Prime Minister John Major backed down and accepted a compro­mise allowing changes in the voting system. 
IRA announces cease-fire 
• 

Associated Press 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 
The Irish Republican Army announced a three-day cease­fire Wednesday. But British Prime Minister John Major dis­missed the truce as a public relations ploy even before it was announced. 
The cease-fire will begin next Tuesday at midnight, the IRA said. The British and Irish gov­ernments have been calling for a permanent end to IRA vio­lence as the price for allowing the IRA's political allies to join in negotiations on Northern Ireland. 
It was the second, brief cease-fire announced by the IRA since Major and Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds announced their peace propos­als on Dec. 15. The cease-fire at Christmas was followed within days by an IRA attack that killed a police officer. 
A cease-fire just after Easter is highly symbolic for the IRA, which reveres the "Easter Rising" of 1916. Rebels seized the main post office in Dublin a statement that the truce on the day after Easter, and the reiterates "our continued will­British decision to execute the ingness to be positive and flexi­leaders brought a wave of sym­ble in exploring the potential pathy to the Irish nationalist for moving the situation for­cause. ward." 
Major, arriving in Belfast for Gerry Adams, leader of Sinn a speaking engagement, told Fein, the IRA's political wing, reporters before the an­said the cease-fire was an op­nouncement that a temporary portunity to break a stalemate cease-fire "would be cynical." in peace efforts, and urged He said people in Northern Majors to authorize talks. Ireland want a permanent end The IRA has been responsible to the violence. for the largest share of blood­
"That is very much what I shed in Northern Ireland since want, I believe it is what all 1969, killing some 1 ,800 people people in Northern Ireland of a total death toll of more wish to see," he said. "That is than 3,100. the message we wish to hear, Both governments affirmed not just a brief public relations that Northern Ireland would gesture." remain part of the United 
In Dublin, Ireland, Reynolds Kingdom so long as a majority echoed Major's comments in of its people wished. Northern demanding an end to violence Ireland's Protestant majority "to move the peace process for­strongly favors the status quo. ward." But he didn't dismiss However, Major declared the IRA move completely, call­Britain had no longterm eco­ing it "a very small step in the nomic or strategic stake in right direction." holding on to Northern Ireland 
The IRA, which favors uniting and would support Irish unifi­with the predominantly cation if that's what the major­Catholic Irish Republic, said in ity wanted. 

Italian conservatives discuss power transition 
By DANIEL WAKIN 
Associated Press 
ROME 
Winning the vote was the pre­lude. On Wednesday, Italy's rightist victors, divided by per­sonality and politics, began their negotiating dance on how to take power. 
Silvio Berlusconi, the tycoon whose conservative alliance was the big winner in parlia­mentary elections, sat down with regionalist firebrand Umberto Bossi to try to reach agreement on Italy's next gov­ernment. 

The negotiations should lead to an accord on a premier and Cabinet within two weeks. 
"We're on the right road," Berlusconi said of the meeting in Milan. 
He promised a government soon and once again held him­self out as the leading candi­date for premier. 
The key points of an eventual program are jobs, decentraliza­tion and reorganizing public administration, he said. 
Berlusconi, the media and retail magnate, glossed over potential conflicts. 
"He whose profession is a leader of men has to have the ability to get them to agree," Berlusconi said. 
Afterward, Bossi, leader of the Northern League, said he and Berlusconi talked about government programs .. begin­ning with political and fiscal federalism, jobs, depressed areas and relaunching free market policies." Bossi favors greater regional autonomy, but particularly for the wealthier north. 
The League's Chamber whip, Roberto Maroni, clarified that creating a federal structure for Italy was a "fundamental point" in negotiating a common government program. 
That pointed up a difference with the third coalition partner, the neo-fascist rooted National Alliance, which opposes 
federalism. Berlusconi has not ruled it out. "On that we must go farther in depth," he said. 
Berlusconi said he had spo­ken to the Nationalist Alliance leader, Gianfranco Fini, on the phone and would meet again with Bossi on Friday. 
The new legislature convenes April 15. President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro formally picks the pre­mier, and the Senate and Chamber of Deputies must ap­prove the proposed Cabinet. 

I l 
The Sam~ Thomas More Societty of No~re Dame 1Law Sch(Q)olp ithe Jacques Mari~am Center andl ithe SttriJke JFo11mnudlation pre§enit = = 
The Reverend Augustine DiNoia, O.P. 
...who will give a lecture (questions to follow) on Easter 'fuesday, 5 April 1994, at 3:00p.m. in the courtroom of Notre Dame Law School, entitled-­
"Veritatis Splendor: Moral Life as Transfigured Life" 
Fr. DiNoia, who holds a doctorate in theology from Yale University, is the Executive Director of the Secretariat for Doctrine and Pastoral Practices at the National Conference of Catholic Bishops in Washington, D.C., as well as a professor at the Dominican House of Studies and the John Paul Institute for Marriage and the Family in Washington. He also edits the theological quarterly journal, The Thomist,and authored the recent book, The Diversity or Religions: A Christian Perspective . 
Thursday, March 31, 1994 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
China to support resolution Muslims, Croats agree; 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
China will permit the U.N. Security Council to approve a resolution urging North Korea to open its suspect nuclear sites to international inspectors, South Korea's foreign minister said Wednesday. 
But the minister, Han Seung­joo, said the resolution would impose "minimum require­ments," and the State Department spokesman said it may be a month before an­other, tougher, resolution is presented to the council. 
The International Atomic Energy Agency in the meantime will evaluate data collected during inspections in March to determine whether North Korea has an active program to develop nuclear weapons, de­partment spokesman Michael McCurry said. 
Such a finding would have "grave ·consequences," he said. Han, talking to reporters after a 50-minute meeting with Secretary of State Warren Christopher, said "the Chinese are on board in the sense of discussing t.he form and con­tents of a Security Council reso­lution." 
Though this means "there will be minimum require­ments" in the resolution, "I think it is unlikely the Chinese will veto the kind of resolution we are working on right now," Han said. 

China has urged a go-slow approach toward North Korea, with whom it has close ties. Christopher, mindful of China's power to kill any resolution, has decided to stagger the resolutions in a way that would give North Korea more time to accept international inspectors before risking U.N. economic sanctions. 
"I think we're very much in a unified position with respect to the United Nations Security Council," Christopher said. "We are going to be urging a resolu­tion there. One thing I would stress is that we're consulting very closely with all the parties, including the Chinese, about the best way to encourage the North Koreans to take the steps that the international commu­nity wants them to take." 
Han lined up his government with the United States in trying to pry open suspect North Korean nuclear sites. But he said there were "some differ­ences in emphasis" with China. 
Reporting to Christopher on talks in Japan and China, he said "the Chinese have been emphasizing the importance of dialogue." The goal, he said, should be adoption of an "effective and realistic" resolu­tion by the Security Council. 
President Clinton was briefed by his national security assis­tant, Anthony Lake, en route to a golf club outside San Diego. 
Lake said U.N. Ambassador 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
1l8!iY 0 ~~th 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 

(219)277--1291
51408 31 North South Bend, IN 4663 7 Phone Answered 24 hrs. 
Madeleine Albright was meet­ing with Chinese, British, French and Russian diplomats in New York "to work through a resolution that can take care of some of the Chinese concerns and still come up with a very firm international position." 
Lake said that could lead to "broad talks" with North Korea about its future and the nuclear issue. 
"Korea is a very serious issue but it is very important that we not overreact to North Korean rhetoric," the White House offi­cial said. 
In fact, he said, North Korean statements have been less belli­cose recently. "We simply have to be very firm and very steady and not overreact,'' Lake said. "That's the course we're on." 
North Korea has threatened to turn South Korea into a "sea of fire." According to U.S. mili­tary analysts the strategy is to annihilate U.S.-allied defenses before reinforcements could arrive. 
Gen. Gary Luck, U.S. com­mander in South Korea, told Congress this month that U.S. forces would have no more than 24 hours warning before such an attack and that an all­out war could kill 400,000 U.S. and South Korean troops. 
Asia scholar Susan Shirk said that "the reality is that China's neighbors are less focused on the nuclear threat and more focused on long-term stability of the Korean peninsula." 
ByJASMINA KUZMANOVIC 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

Bosnia's Muslims and Serbs made war Wednesday while Muslims and Croats made peace by approving a tentative constitution for their planned federation. 
At least 10 people were re­ported killed in battles around the Muslim enclaves of Gorazde in the southeast and Bihac in the northwest. 
But Sarajevo was peaceful as a special assembly of Muslims and Croats endorsed the consti­tution. 
Seeking to feed the peace momentum in Sarajevo, where few shots have been fired since a truce began Feb. 10, the United States' top general and 
U.N. 
ambassador arrived for talks with leaders of Bosnia's Muslim-led government. 

U.N. 
Ambassador Madeline Albright announced a U.S. con­tribution of $10 million to the rebuilding of Sarajevo, and said the United States continued to support the convening of an international tribunal to try those of all sides suspected of war crimes. 


She spoke of a "mixture of sadness and great joy" upon viewing the destruction caused by 23 months of Serb siege­and the signs of life returning to the streets. 
ByMARKPORUBCANSKY 
Associated Press 
SKOPJE, Macedonia 

Wary of its neighbors Macedonia rests somewhere between peace and instability poverty and sufficiency. It can't even be sure of its name. 
With wars in Croatia and 
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO 'Dri'R'l BOOK 
COURSES ADDED 
PHIL 241 03 #4058 ­PHIL 241 04 #4059 ­PHIL 241 05 #4060 ­PHIL 241 06 #4061 ­PHIL 242 01 #4062 ­PHIL 242 02 #4063 ­PHIL 266 01 #4064 ­PHIL 266 02 #4065 ­PHIL 302 01 #4066 ­PSY 211 02 #4053 ­
CHANGES AERO 346L 01 #4011 ­
BIOS 250 01 #3188 ­BIOS 401L 02 #3198 ­BIOS 420 01 #3199 ­BIOS 422 01 #3203 ­CHEM 333 01 #1340 ­COSH 481 01 #3472 ­COTH 377 01 #2752 ­
ECON 115 01 #2540 ­ECON 225 02 #1400 ­ECON 303 01 #1406 ­EE 453 01 #1443 ­EE 498A 01 #3054 ­EE 568 01 #3137 ­EE 598A 01 #1035 ­GOVT 491A 01 #0333 ­
PHYS 621 01 #3952 ­
THEO 274 01 #1000 ­
COURSES CANCELLED ENGL 317A 01 #3778 ENGL 340 01 #2531 GOVT 314 01 #3966 GOVT 334 01 #3541 Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 01:15-02:30 

Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00 
Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00 
Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 04:15-05:30 
Basic Concepts Political Phil.; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 09:05-09:55 
Basic Concepts Political Phil.; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10-11:00 
Faith and Philosophical Inquiry; 3 cr.hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00 
Faith and Philosophical Inquiry; 3 cr.hrs.; TH 04:15-05:30 
History of Modem Philosophy; 3 cr. hrs.;TH 11:00-12:15 
Introductory Psychology; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 09:05-09:55 
Change time to: F 11:15-01:05 
Remove BIOS 241 as a pre-requisite 
Change time to: MW 01:15-03:15 
Change time to: MWF 09:05-09:55 
Change title to: "Marine Biology/1 
Remove restriction of "CHEG majors" 
Change time to : MW 08:40-09:55 
Change restriction to: (COTH 101 or 104 or 201 or 204) 
and (COTH 210 or 211) or permission; Majors only 
Change time to: TH 01:15-02:30 
Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45 
Remove corequisite ECON 303L 
Change time to: MWF 10:10-11:00 
Change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05 
Change time to: MWF 09:05-09:55 
Change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05 
Change title to: "Inter. Rel. in East Asia"; change instructor 
to Moody; change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05 
Change time to: MWF 12:15-01:05 
Register at Center for Social Concerns (C.S.C) 
liPS  334  01  #4006  
PHIL  222  01  #4029  
PHIL  301  02  #4030  
THEO  100  04  #2377  

constitution signed 
Albright and Gen. John Shalikashvili, chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staffs, came for talks with President Alija Izetbegovic and Premier Haris Silajdzic. Albright also plans to dedicate the site for the U.S. Embassy in Sarajevo. 
Shalikashvili said the United States was "anxiously" await­ing a comprehensive peace that includes the Serbs. 
He said U.S. peacekeeping troops will likely be sent to Bosnia only when total peace is achieved. 
He and Albright later flew to Skopje, capital of Macedonia, where more than 300 U.S. sol­diers are on U.N. peacekeeping duty. 
Earlier, Muslim and Croat officials unanimously approved the constitution for a federation covering the 30 percent of Bosnia not controlled by Serbs. 
The next expected step is the formation of an interim gov­ernment until elections can be held. Bosnian radio said the government would named with­in 14 days. 
The proposed constitution foresees Muslim-and Croat­dominated cantons and a presi­dency held alternately by Muslims and Croats. 
U.S. and Russian diplomats hope to persuade Bosnian Serbs to join the new state, something their leaders have rejected so far. 
Embargo plagues Macedonia 
Bosnia seemingly winding down, the future of much of the Balkans may rest on this shaky foundation. 
This week's visit by U.S. Gen. John Shalikashvili, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who ar­rives Thursday, appears to be part of a high-profile American effort to keep Macedonia calm. Several hundred American sol­diers form the first U.N. pre­ventative peacekeeping opera­tion here. 
And U.S. officials are trying to mediate the longstanding con­flict between Greece and Macedonia. 
Greece claims the name Macedonia and the republic's state symbols imply territorial ambitions on the northern Greek province of the same name. Greek objections forced Macedonia to accept being ad­mitted to the United Nations as "The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia." 
Macedonia denies such am­bitions, and Greece's European Union partners have demanded it lift an economic embargo or face action in the European Court of Justice. 
The United States "clearly, rightly assesses that stability in the Balkans is greatly depen­dent on peace and stability in Macedonia," President Kiro Gligorov said in a recent inter­view. Without a stable Macedonia, the wars to the north already would have spread to the Greek border and "inevitably, all Balkan states would become involved." 
The former Yugoslav republic of 2 million people faces several connected problems. It is locat­ed in the heart of the Balkans, surrounded by Greece, Serbia, Bulgaria and Albania. 
Several wars have been fought over it early this cen­tury, its large ethnic Albanian minority is dissatisfied and the traditionally weak economy ap­pears increasingly dependent on shady trade. 
Gligorov warned that the Greek embargo, imposed Feb. 
16, could push Macedonia over the edge and take the rest of the Balkans with it. 
Seventy percent of Macedonia's imports normally are shipped through the Greek port of Salonica, but for more than a month, only food and medicine have been permitted through. 
Shops in Skopje seem full enough, and there is sufficient fuel for run-down cars to pol­lute the streets for the next couple of months. 
But an estimated 170,000 people are out of work, almost a third of the work force, adding to the tangible sense of uncertainty. 
Average monthly wages are about 250 German marks {$150), not bad compared with sanctions-strapped Serbia or war-ravaged Bosnia, but hardly a princely sum. 
Also unsettling is the upcom­ing census to determine the country's ethnic breakdown. Albanians claim to comprise about one-third of the popula­tion; Macedonians believe it's less. Population counts help de­termine political power, and Albanians are not satisfied with their share. Elections are set for November. 
Moderates in the Albanians' Party of Democratic Prosperity are part of the governing coali­tion. But they say Gligorov and coalition partners are not fulfilling promises to train teachers for Albanian-language schools, or provide more Albanian-language TV pro­gramming. 
"We're losing credibility as a parliamentary faction," said Ismet Ramadani, deputy chief of the Albanians' parliamentary group. "The future stability of the republic depends on how much of our demands are ful­filled." 
The central Bitbazaar mar­ket, where several people died last year in clashes between po­lice and ethnic Albanian black­marketeers. buzzes with uncer­tainty. 
pageS The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 31, 1994 

Brady applauds fight against NRA 'empire' 
By CAROLYN SKORNECK Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Thirteen years after he was gunned down in the assassina­tion attempt on President Reagan and a month after his namesake gun control measure became law, James Brady de­clared victory. 
The law "is working to keep guns out of criminal hands," the former presi­dential spokesman s a i d James Brady Wednesday. He revived the "evil empire" tag Reagan used to describe the Soviet Union, affixing it instead to the National Rifle Association, which fought the Brady law that requires a five­day waiting period and a back­ground check before a handgun purchase. 

"The evil empire is now try­ing to win back in the courts what they lost on Capitol Hill," he said, referring to lawsuits filed by a half-dozen sheriffs, with NRA support, contending the law is unconstitutional. 
Calling it "downright dan­gerous," Brady said, "The Brady law is working, and working well. It is keeping handguns out of the hands o those who would use them to commit crimes. The NRA should be ashamed." 
The NRA got a word in, dis­paraging the effectiveness o gun laws like Brady's, just be­fore Brady and his wife, Sarah, appeared at a news conference at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. 
"If we would focus on locking up criminals, we could solve this problem a lot quicker," NRA Crime Strike Chairman Richard Sellers said at an out­door session with reporters across the street from ATF headquarters. 
Sellers touted the creation o a new group, Criminals Cause Crime Coalition, that will push Congress to increase grants for state prisons to end overcrowd­ing that enables some violent prisoners to go free. 
By JENNIFER DIXON Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In a new scheme that's spreading nationwide, federal officials say networks of small grocery stores are buying food stamps from recipients at cut rates, then redeeming them from the government at full value. 
By working together and shipping coupons among stores, sometimes across the country, merchants are able to hide large purchases of food stamps and stay one step ahead of investigators. 
Retailers who traffic in food stamps buy them at less than their value, typically from 50 to 75 cents on the dollar, then cash them in at full price. 
Their source of food stamps may be welfare recipients or middlemen and drug dealers, who trade the paper coupons for drugs or other items of value on the street. 
For years, investigators have caught some retailers traffick­ing in food stamps. But only re­cently have they discovered some grocers banding together in loose networks to evade de­tection. 
An Agriculture Department spokesman estimates that all types of trafficking cost the food stamp program at least $100 million a year, but says there is no way to know how much laundering is being done in the underground networks. 
Department officials who oversee the program say stores involved in trafficking tend to be small grocers, not large su­permarkets or major chain store outlets, and are a minori­ty of the 207,000 retailers authorized to accept food stamps. 
Usually, federal investigators discover laundering when a store redeems more food stamps than other neighbor­hood grocers, or when food

~ 
I stamp redemptions are out of
! 
line with food sales. t Merchants in the conspiracies I try to avoid detection by ship­r ping coupons from a store withI a high volume in illegal food r stamp purchases to retailers
1 
with a smaller volume, in­vestigators say. 
The schemes, which may in­volve shipping coupons across state lines, allow each store in the network to avoid setting off an alarm system based on vol­ume. 
Craig Beauchamp, the assis­tant inspector general in charge of investigations for the Agriculture Department, says investigators are finding more retailers ··cooperating among themselves" to evade detection. Beauchamp said underground networks of stores are now op­erating all over the country. 
In a recent case, authorities in California charged three gro­cery stores in Stockton and one in San Jose with illegal food stamp trafficking. The govern­ment alleged that the owner of a Stockton market bought food stamps and then brokered them through the three other stores. 
Rep. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., says he is convinced it is an emerg­ing and widespread problem. 
"It looks like it's being done by very savvy, well-organized, sophisticated crooks who un­derstand the technology and are obviously able to get out in front of law enforcement," said Wyden, whose House Small Business subcommittee on reg­ulation has spent several years investigating food stamp fraud. 
The average monthly food stamp benefit is $68.78. Food stamps come in denominations of $1, $5 and $10 and can be used to buy almost any type of food. Exceptions include hot prepared foods, alcoholic bev­erages, cigarettes and house­hold items such as toilet paper and diapers. 
Beauchamp said attempts to defraud the food stamp pro­gram have grown increasingly sophisticated as it has expand­ed in recent years: from 20 mil­lion recipients collecting $14.2 billion in benefits in 1990 to 27 million recipients collecting $22 billion in 1993. 
Switching from paper coupons to electronic benefits, a system USDA hopes to have in place nationwide by 1996, Beauchamp said, "would signif­icantly decrease the amount of street trafficking in food stamp coupons" and reduce the ex­change of food stamps for drugs. 
Delivering benefits electroni-

Gang wars force gun sweep 
By MATIHEW FORDAHL Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
A gang war rages in a high­rise public housing project. Gunshots ring out as many as 300 times in a matter of days, killing one person and wound­ing six. Tenants cower in their apartments, afraid to venture out. 
Officials believe they have a partial answer to the violence: Let police search the project's apartments for guns, with no search warrants required. 
The episode has renewed a legal battle with civil libertari­ans who oppose plans for the searches, arguing that people don't give up their constitu­tional rights when they move into the projects. 
But many of the tenants themselves don't buy that ar­gument. 
"I know if nobody tries to help us, more people will be killed -innocent people," said Tammera Evans, who lives in the massive Robert Taylor Homes project. "That's terrible. This is the United States of America, and we can't get no help. We're not free. We're here trapped." 
Food stamp fraud uncovered 
cally also would increase inves­tigators' ability to identify re­tailers who abuse the program, he said. 
In a February letter to Wyden, Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy said investigators uncovered 841 instances of trafficking last year. 
The inspector general's office reported 2,097 indictments and 1,950 convictions in 1991, 1992 and 1993 involving all kinds of food stamp fraud. The office currently is investigating 517 cases of suspected food stamp fraud. 
Police said more than 300 in­stances of gunfire have been reported in the 28-building, 12,320-tenant complex since last Thursday. Authorities don't agree on the origins of the gang war, but they say the Gangster Disciples and the Black Disciples are likely battling over drug turfs. 
Since Saturday, housing po­lice using metal detectors at the project's doors seized 26 weapons. 
Evans says since the warfare broke out, she has had to dodge bullets just to buy groceries. She calls police to report more shootings, but says they tell her to stay away from the windows. That can be difficult in a one­bedroom apartment. 
Violence last summer in the city's housing projects prompt­ed the Chicago Housing Authority to ask police to con­duct random gun searches. The American Civil Liberties Union responded with a class-action lawsuit against the CHA on be­half of its 135,000 tenants. 
ACLU lawyers argue that gang violence should be con­fronted with a strong police presence in the projects, not an end run around the Constitution. 
"If the same level of violence occurring in and around CHA developments was occurring around upscale residential housing, there would be a con­stant police presence," said Harvey Grossman, the ACLU's legal director in Chicago. 
U.S. District Judge Wayne Andersen temporarily halted the searches last month and called the policy a "greater evil than the danger of criminal ac­tivity." 
On Monday, after the week­end violence, he refused to lift his restraining order. He said he would allow limited searches for specific reasons after show­ing probable cause, immediate danger or with the consent of the tenant. But the judge em­phasized he would not grant the housing authority "carte blanche" to raid the projects. 
Andersen's rulings incensed city and housing officials who support the warrantless search­es. 
"We are trying to get the guns and drugs out of public housing," Mayor Richard M. Daley said Wednesday. "Public housing is owned by the people. They do not \Vant guns, gang­hangers and drugs in their buildings." 
The Pre--Law Spring Newsletter 
will be available on Wednesday, April 13 in room 104 O'Shaughnessy for all Pre-Law Society Members 

To Compete for the title of Miss USA which will be televised live on CBS from South Padre Island, Texas. 
Win thousands of dollars in cash, scholarship, wardrobe, jewelry, and much more! 
State Pageant will take place june 19 at the Radisson Hotel & Suites in Indianapolis. 
Compete in interview, evening gown, & bathing suit-
No performing 
talent required! 
CALL: (219)477-6603 fo 
free entry information. 

OINT 
Thursday, March 31, 1994 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager. ............................ Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director .............. .Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan ControUer ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saim Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lettets is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631--4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
·.. ·,:;-.i .·. ..... .').>:::/···'·'·.\··!).•::·'1 :•!.i.•,_••.••.,••.•.•. \?}. 
. . passed through lSbl~tioJtl. we listened to eac:Jun~($­telling ofthe agony of . ..·.··· .. flxiortfWe listened to mtlsic and ·• · · · · 
DOONESBURY 
H& COVER-UPATTRJJC75 7H£ ATT&NTION OF MORAL­M!OG&TAJ,FON'X{)'AMATO,.. 
rM 5HOCKEP.I / SHOCK&lJ.' 
~~~~~~ 

/i./£3 9-IOUW HAV8 HeARJN&.3  {)JHAT FACT5  
J  /MMelJIATf.I,.Y/ IT~ T!M8 TO GeTALl,  
•  7H&FAC-,r)  
I  /  an!  

~ 


· 

Pain, anger caused by rape 
Dear Editor: 
I'm not sure if I should write this because I'm not an expert on sexuality or the many defini­tions of rape. I do know sex is a very scary, powerful thing and I also know there are a lot of things I'm uncertain about. 
In February of this year I had an experience I can't remem­ber but that I'd like to forget. My SYR date. who I'd talked to a handful of times, raped me. I drank enough for us both and he had a drop to wet his lips. I think about the whole mess and question my actions. Maybe I wanted it? Maybe he was just acting on my signals? Maybe it was no big deal? But then I think about who I am and the unlikelihood of that happening without the influence of alco­hol. I didn't want that to hap­pen. I wanted to dance and have fun, at least to leave the room. I can't blame myself for what the guy did, but I can blame myself for getting into that vulnerable situation. I guess I was too trusting and I have to realize the danger I put myself in when I drink. 
Now I can't even look him in the eyes when we pass each other on the quad. It just hurts that someone is willing to share the ultimate expression of love with me but unwilling to get to know me as a person. How can someone have so little respect for another or for himself or herself? 
I keep wrestling with the term rape. Once you say "rape" people put on their masks of judgment and per­sonal definitions of the term. I think more importantly people need to listen to victims with considerate and unbiased ears. Having people question an al­ready frightened victim only furthers their confusion and fear. 
Rape, sexual assault, or how­ever we label the term, means a trespassing of one's sexual domain. It causes pain, confu­sion, and anger. It isn't all just a made-up or overly drama­tized thing. One of the hardest parts about being violated in such a personal, intimate way is the uncertainty and self­doubt it causes. I wish people would give sex the respect it deserves. Most importantly I wish people would respect every vulnerable, breathing, imperfect, wanting, searching, love-giving person that passes their way. Until this happens, take responsibility for yourself and take control by being aware of your environment. 
FRESHMAN Anonymous 
YOU'RE: RIGHT' t£T'SA51<A 

''Ifyou steal from one 
PAI<T-T/Mt 

author, it's plagiarism; if
aYJRI&R. 70 5HW7Hclrll 

you steal from many, it's research." 
-Wilson Mizner 


Jonathan P. Ablian 
• Phone: 31 0/551-5500 

Los Angeles, California 90067 
!!/ERNST& YOUNG 

Shannon Cullinan 
• 787 Seventh Avenue • Phone: 212/773-3000 New York, New York 10019 
!!/ERNST& YOUNG 
Melissa C. Halac 
• Sears Tower • Phone: 312/879-2000 233 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606-6301 
!!/ERNST& YOUNG 
Erin L. Novasel 
• 1300 Huntington Building • Phone: 216/861-5000 925 Euclid Avenue Cleveland, Ohio 44115 
f 
r 
!!/ERNST& YOUNG 
~ 
r 
~ 
Kristie L. Shafer 
r I' 
• One Columbus • Phone: 614/224-5678 10 West Broad Street Columbus, Ohio 43215-3400 
As these 29 seniors prepare to graduate, we're happy to give them something the entire business world values: our 1
[ 
I I 
r 
r 
•, 
r 
,..... ' --~-­~­
--------------~----------------------~~~----~----~--~~-~ 
Thursday, March 31, 1994 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

show who 
E!J ERNST&YOUNG 
Joseph J. Barone 
• Two Commerce Square • Phone: 215/448-5000 Suite 4000 2001 Market Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103-7096 
Ell ERNST & YOUNG 
Joseph B. Gavigan 
• Sears Tower • Phone: 312/879-2000 233 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606-6301 
E!J ERNST& YOUNG 
Lisa M. Mahan 
• Sears Tower • Phone: 312/879-2000 233 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606-6301 
E!J ERNST& YOUNG 
Christopher E. Ross 
• Sears Tower • Phone: 312/879-2000 233 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606-6301 
Ell ERNST& YOUNG 
Paul A. Vredenburg 
• Sears Tower • Phone: 31 2/879-2000 233 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606-6301 
• 

E!J ERNST& YOUNG 
James P. Beranek 
• Sears Tower • Phone: 31 2/879-2000 233 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606-6301 
EJ1 ERNST& YOUNG 
Jana E. Geiger 

• 501 West Broadway • Phone: 619/236-1100 Suite 1100 San Diego, California 92101 
Ell ERNST& YOUNG . 
Michael L. McNamee 
• 1300 Huntington Building IIIII Phone: 216/861-5000 925 Euclid Avenue Cleveland, Ohio 44115 
ill ERNST & YOUNG 
Robert J. Sayles 

• 1800 One MONY Plaza • Phone: 315/425-8011 Syracuse, New York 13202 
ill ERNST& YOUNG 
John S. Wenman 

• 1451 California Avenue • Phone: 41 5/496-1600 Palo Alto, California 94304 
EJ/ ERNST& YOUNG 
Patrick S. Burke 

• Sears Tower • Phone: 312/879-2000 233 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606-6301 
!!I ERNST& YOUNG 
Patricia L. Greenwood 

• Sears Tower • Phone: 312/879-2000 233 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606-6301 
I 

ElJ ERNST &YOUNG 
David K. Nemer 

• 1 Cascade Plaza • Phone: 216/253-9150 Suite 1700 Akron, Ohio 44308 
ill ERNST& YOUNG 
Robert F. Scalise 

• Sears Tower • Phone: 312/879-2000 233 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606-6301 
card. Please join us in welcoming the newest members of Ernst & Young. Ell ERNST& YOUNG 


CCENT 
page 12 Thursday, March 31, 1994 
Thanks for the 
•

memones. Can I have my clothes back? 
By JOHN BINGHAM 
Accent Writer 

·so many people in and out ofmy life. 
Some will last. some will just be now and then. 
Life is a series ofhellos and goodbyes. 
I guess it's time for goodbye again." 
-Billy Joel 

I know it happens to people everyday, but since it happened to me, I'm going to complain about it. We all have been in relationships that haven't worked out, but this time, it hit home. 
Everything seemed perfect. I was in a great relationship and things only seemed to be improving. We had survived two and a half years and we were looking to the future. 
Then it ended. No real reasons were given. There was nothing that I could point to in order to figure out what had happened. I was left with some lingering questions and a pile of phone bills. 
What had I done wrong? 
What would I do now? 

How do I get back all the clothes she had 
"borrowed" over the course of our relationship? 
Everyone around me seemed to have answers to at least the first two of these questions. I received more unsolicited advice and "inspira­tional" quotes than I really needed. 
"When life gives you lemons, make lemon­ade." "If you were meant to be together, things will work out." 
Why does everybody try to give you advice at this time? Personally, I get more out of com­plaining about it, rather than listening to some­one else tell me how to deal with breaking up. 
I learned that not all relationships end clean­ly. There are questions which need to be answered and loose ends that need to be tied up. There's an emotional investment that now feels wasted or unreturned. I think there is a standard procedure that occurs at this time. The pictures come out of the frames and in go pictures of us with our friends, a testimony to the fact that there are other people in our lives. The photos and all the old letters go into a bag put in the back of your wardrobe, maybe to be thrown out later, but we're not at that level yet. The credit card and phone bills go straight to the trash, lest they become reminders of the irrationality of the last few months. 
I think I've learned that even a relationship that is over provides you with a foundation for the future. There are positive things which should continue as you move on in life and there are negatives which you can work to improve. There's the sweater which you got last Christmas and of course all of the positive memories which remain. It's easy to get bogged down in being unhappy but you wouldn't be upset if you didn't have good expe­riences. The better your time together was, the worse your time apart will seem. 
I feel like I've grown a lot since that fateful day in October. Together, we had been through highs and lows. There were big phone bills and plenty of letters. Since then, there have been plenty of people who think they have the answers for me. Time goes on and other peo­ple come and go in you life. What seemed so devastating a couple of months ago is now sim­ply part of the past and it's time to move on. 
My final question still remains. We talk from 
time to time but I know she's still wearing the 
stuff and doesn't really want to give it back. Is 
there a statute of limitations on asking for it 
back? Is there a form I can fill out to claim it? 
Can I just write it off as a loss and deduct it 
from my taxes? I guess there are more serious 
questions which I should be dealing with but 
this is more fun. 

Questions of course still remain but their 
answers seem less important. Of course, I'd 
still like to know how to get my clothes back. 
John Bingham is an Observer photographer and occasional Observer columnist. If you have any suggestions on how he should go about retrieving his clothes. please feel free to send them in care ofThe Observer. 

• 

en t 


I shebroke up with me ... I gave her my heart and she gave me a pen.' 
Lloyd Dobbler (John Cusack ) in Say Anything 
Fifty ways to leave your lover, or so they say. Although breaking up is hard to do, several students have had to tell Gus to take a bus, or have even hopped on a plane, Wayne, themselves. 
The souvenirs she brought back from Europe made it easy for Saint Mary's sophomore Diann Garlanger to break up with her boyfriend at the time. 
It was the summer before her junior year in high school and she had bought three gifts for three guys while on a school trip touring Europe. She was dating a guy she wanted to stop seeing, she liked her sailing instructor, and also had a close male friend. 
"I didn't have a clear idea of how to give them their gifts," she said. She finally decided to give her sailing instructor and her friend first and second choices. They both chose t-shirts she had bought, leaving the third gift, a rock she found on a street in Austria, for her boyfriend. 
When she gave it to him, they broke up. 
"He opened up the bag and said, 'Oh, a rock. Is this supposed to be significant?'" she said. "I said, 'If you want it to be,"' 
The worst part of it was when the three guys saw each other and compared gifts, she said. 
The ends of other relationships are a bit more sentimen­tal, as Saint Mary's freshman Roxanne Mintern and her boyfriend from home decided to start seeing other people when they graduated and went to college. 
They had often talked of marriage, and he had given her a chain for a gift. Once they had gotten to school, they broke up permanently, and she returned the chain to him. 
"He sent it back to me," she said. "He told me that the chain was for the one he really loved. Then I would get mean letters back when I'd write him. He would say, 
's over 
Students discoverthat 
breaking up 
is hard to do 
By 
Mara Divis 
Accent Writer 

· 'You'll never find anyone who'll love you the way that I did.'" 
Then again, spilling out your heart and laying it out that you never want to see your significant other again can break the two of you apart, but you have to be careful about how to make a graceful exit, as Garlanger learned. 
She and another guy she was dating mutually decided to break up and they agreed to meet one evening at the beach to talk about it, she said. 
"It was really emotional," she said. "I said that I never wanted to see him again and he said the same." 
They finished talking and walked to their cars to drive home. It was growing late. It was then that she realized she had locked her keys in the car. 
"He had to drive me 20 minutes home to my parents to get the keys," she said. "We had just totally told each other off. I just cringed all the way home." 
I 

Heartbreak can be a major part of saying goodbye, as Brian, a sophomore, said. His girlfriend broke up with him on Valentine's Day, while the rest of the world was send­ing chocolate hearts and flowers to their loved ones. 
The two had been dating since high school, and broke up at the end of his freshman year. They got back togeth­er and then broke up again this past Christmas vacation. Valentine's Day came and he sent her a tape he had made and a scrapbook he had put together. 
In return, he received a card. 
"I called her to see what was up," he said. "She sounded kind of funny and said she was kind of, sort of seeing another guy. It was just sad that it had to be on Valentine's Day.'' 
Thursday, March 31, 1994 

The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
March Madness culminates with April bash 
Williamson a tough Women's basketball facing problems 
matchup for Arizona 
By ARTHUR H. ROTSTEIN 
AssociateC Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
He runs like a guard, re­
bounds like a. center and shoots 
like a small forward. 
Arizona coach Lute Olson 
has this problem: What to do 
about Corliss Williamson of 
Arkansas? 
The 6-foot-7, 245-pound sophomore forward has scored 20 or more points in eight of his last nine games. 
The Wildcats (29-5) meet Arkansas (29-3) on Saturday in Charlotte, N.C., in the opening game of the Final Four. 
The winner advances to the national championship game Monday night against Florida or Duke. 
Olson said it's not easy trying to figure out the best way to counter Williamson. 
"He runs it like a guard," he said Wednesday. "So it's really going to put a lot of pressure on our big guys to make the tran­sition or he can really hurt you. The other thing is that he's so strong and has a great touch on his shots." 
Earlier in the week, Olson said he'd start 6-foot-8, 200­pound Ray Owes, the Wildcats' leading rebounder (8 per game) against Williamson. 
.. 1 think Ray will do a great job, but this is one he'll have to step up big-time," Olson said. 
The coach said he hadn't decided whether to try doubling 

down defensively on Williamson. That worked in holding Louisville all-American center Cliff Rozier to five points last week. 
Olson said he he thinks his players are up to the challenge of handling Williamson. 
"We're going to work hard at it," he said. "Our guys have done a really good job defen­sively in the tournament, and I think they're up to another good, strong defensive effort." 
Usually, he said, a defense can be designed to deny some move by an opposing player. Williamson, a secod-team all­American, is something else. 
..The thing with him is that he can take it both ways, he can power it through you, he can shoot the jumper," Olson said. " ... So it's his versatility that creates the problems." 
Earlier, Olson likened Williamson to a young Charles Barkley. But Wednesday, he agreed with Arkansas coach Nolan Richardson's comparison of Williamson with Larry Johnson of the NBA's Charlotte Hornets. 
"There are a lot of simi­larities," said Olson, whose team faced Johnson while he attended UNLV. "After he (Richardson) said that I got to thinking about it because Johnson was such an all­around player that just didn't have any weaknesses, and that's what it appears with him (Williamson) also." 
By JOE MACENKA 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. 

The Women's Final Four is supposed to be a time to show­case all that's good about the growing and increasingly visi­ble sport. 
That's not necessarily the case this week. 
As the four survivors of the 64-team NCAA tournament gather in Richmond, some of the growing pains from the ascent of women's college bas­ketball also are on display. 
Alabama (26-6) will meet Louisiana Tech (30-3) in one semifinal Saturday at the Richmond Coliseum, followed by North Carolina (31-2) vs. Purdue (29-4), but there's plen­ty of news off the court as well. 
The sport is in the midst of a seven-year contract with CBS, which also has the men's Final Four coverage. The net effect is that the women's championship is played 24 hours after the second semifinal ends. The men's winning semifinalists get 48 hours to regroup before their championship. 
"It is really unfortunate," Louisiana Tech coach Leon Barmore said. "We sure do need to get away from that kind of setup as soon as we can." 
Job security is another con­cern, especially among some of the male members of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association. They wonder if the rising popularity of women's basketball will create a wave of anti-male sentiment in hiring. The subject has prompted some of the male coaches within the WBCA to form a Male Coaches of Women's Basketball Com­mit tee. 
Then there's the issue of pay disparity. As a group, coaches of women's teams still lag far behind their counterparts on men's teams, and the matter has led to court action. 
"Is it getting better? Yes," said Purdue's Lin Dunn, in her 23rd year of collegiate coaching and her seventh season with the Boilermakers. "Is there still a way to go? I don't think there's any question about that. I think the issue is far from being over." 
Alabama coach Rick Moody, who has led the Crimson Tide to a 104-46 mark in five sea­sons and to their first-ever Final Four appearance, has a different type of problem: He's working without a contract. 
And Moody says he's not alone among his colleagues in women's basketball. 
"As our sport continues to grow and as universities begin to pour more and more money into their programs, I think you're going to see increased pressure, which in my opinion is going to make us more and more insecure," Moody said. "As the pressure grows, I think we as coaches are going to have to take a stand on this issue and possibly be a little more demanding in our pursuit of security.'' 
Moody said he's not overly concerned about his job status. 
"I haven't even thought about it lately, to be honest with you," he said. "But once the season's over, we'll sit down and discuss it. The university will take care of it." 
North Carolina coach Sylvia Hatchell said the issues of pay and job security tend to get clouded in an argument of women's programs being au­tomatically entitled to whatever the men have. But while men's programs have already estab­lished themselves in the eyes of fans and administrators, the women need to prove them­selves, she said. 
"And I do think that's hap­pening pretty much around the country," Hatchell said. "But when you win games and put a quality program together, I do think you should be rewarded for it." 
On the matter of playing semi­finals and the championship on consecutive days, the women's coaches are accepting the arrangement for now, but that doesn't mean they're happy with it. 
This is Barmore's seventh trip to the Final Four with the Lady Techsters. He remembers the emerging days of women's bas­ketball when ESPN covered the semiimals on Friday nights and CBS televised the champi­onships on Sunday afternoons. 
While the current ar­rangement with CBS means more money and viewers, it forces the teams to treat the event like a conference tour­nament with games on suc­cessive days. Not only does it virtually eliminate any signifi­cant preparation time between games, it also makes it difficult for the players to relax and soak in the atmosphere of a national championship setting, Barmore said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds mu.~t be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
$$FOR BOOKS@ PANDORA'S everyday but sunday until 5:30pm 233·2342 ND ave &Howard 
Applications for 
SOPHOMORE CLASS COUNCIL (Class of '97) 
are available in the Student Government Office! 
April1·8 All applications due the 8th. 
Questions? Call John x1975 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST-LOST-LOST-LOST Gold Bracelet A men's gold, rope-chain bracelet was lost somewhere on campus. If found, please call Keith @4-1824. 
FOUND -GOLD AND BLACK WATCH AT STEPAN COURTS. FOR A GOOD TIME CALL MEAl ­273·5924. 
FOUND: long gold necklace with small crucifix pendant. Found in Debartolo studenVfaculty meeting room 158. Call 4·1675 to claim. 
LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST 
* FOUND BOOK * "PEACEWORKS" found in 81 lot behind the Univ.Ciub call#821 0 to claim 
Found Money in Riley, third floor Contact Katie, 277 6703 
LOST-LOST·LOST·LOST Gold Bracelet 

****Found -Cassette Tape*"** I found a 'greatest hits' tape Friday night in the faculty parking lot in front of Stepan. It was in a Camelot Music bag. Call me and identify the lame artist on the tape and I may give it back to you, along with a lec­ture on music. 
Ryan --288-3952 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Help!!! A purple Columbia jacket was taken from 126 Debartolo on March 28 and I'm very cold. I am offering a reward for its return or the return of my glasses. Please call Sean at 631-8839 to claim your reward. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
---------' 
Found-Gold Bracelet at The Village Landing on Friday March 25. Call to identify @ x0915. Ask for Ryan. 
WANTED 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum· mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860· 0219 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING • Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full· Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1·206·634-0468 ext. C5584 
Summer Resort Jobs -Earn to $12/hr.+ tips. Locations include: Hawaii, Florida, Rocky Mountains, Alaska, New England, etc. for details call: 1-800·807 -5950 ext. R5584. 
CAMPUS REP NEEDED NOW! GREAT PAY$$ MAINTAIN CO. CAMPUS BILLBOARD ADS CALL NOW! 708 297 • 7521 
Companions for summer trans·US bike tour 273-6109 
THIS IS 
BULL---­please help me DEFEND myself in court, if you know why the cops beat the hell out of me for no good reason at Lafayette St. Patrick's Day 634-3082 
COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­
SON, coed Massachusetts. 
Swimming, tennis, land/water 
sports, arts/crafts, theatre, wood· 
working, rocketry, archery, comput­
er, yearbook, photography, video, 
radio, more! Super kids, great food, 
friendly, fun! No general coun· 
selors. 800-955-CAMP. 

CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. Wor1d travel. Summer & Full· Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634·0468 ext. C6675 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALFJFEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN· TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 ext A29. 
SUMMER LIFE GUARD We need 1 or 2 fully-certified life­guards for our miniature wave pool in Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr. Complete season hours. Season 5/25/94-Labor day, 1994. Weekends only after school starts. Call Jim Wyllie 277-1335. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Earn up to $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584 
CO-ED SUMMER CAMP IN MAINE seeks staff from 6·17 to 8-21 to teach athletics, tennis, ropes cours· es, rock climbing, backpacking, swimming, fishing, sailing, waterski­ing, performing arts and many more. Age 20+. Contact Camp Wekeela's winter office at 1·800­959·3177 . 
..__F_O_R_RE_N_T_ ___.I 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
COLLEGE PARK 
CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library -New appliances -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -Washer & Dryer units -Large closets ·Covered parking ·Security System -Large balconies 
Units now available­
$660 per month ..... Going Quickly!! ••••••••CALL: 272-0691 •••••••••• 
1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW &FALL STARTING AT $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER· TIES.272·6306 
FOR SALE 
Macintosh Classic, lmagewriter printer, system 7 and tons of soft­ware: Word, Page, Excel... 
$500 or best offer @273-3920 
HOUSE4SALE 

1.5 miles from campus; 3 bedroom fenced yard; very clean; great, safe neighborhood on Northwood Dr. $48,500. Call 288-7490. 
IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS REALTY 272-6306,232-1466 Macintosh computer with image 
writer for sale. Complete $600 
OBO. Call Keith @273-3920. 

College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath, w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to 
P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN 46634 

:,.way,,~~~":::s. $175 
Local219-654-7222 or 219-654­
3477 
HELP!! I need extra grad. tix call PIER 273-4909 
PERSONAL 

Math tutoring available .... Senior honors math major will tutor any 1 00 or 200-level math courses, possibly higher levels as well. Times and rates negotiable. Call Jeff@ 277-5612 
FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUNI 
live dinner theater with 
catered food, an excellent 
play by NEIL SIMON 
and lots of FUN FUN FUN! 
All this for a mere 8 bucks. 

Come on, you know you want to. 
Get TIX ear1y at the LaFortune INFODESKI!I don't miss the fun fun fun fun fun!!! 
We are a young white Christian couple in their thirties, who live far away from the busy city life on 2000 acres. Tremendous amount of love is waiting for the special child we look forward to adopting. Call Brent or Tina at 1-800·206· 7727. 
" THIS IS 
BULL·-.. " please see wanted's 
ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club Members: No class this Thursday. We are going to Willowbrook Sunday April10! Information will be forthcoming. Ques? Call Laurie 4­3490. 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune Student Center is now accepting applications for part-time employment beginning immediately and continuing through next school year. If interested, stop in and apply. 
Hey Noreen, Janet, Rejanell 
Come with us to the dinner theater April 7! See ya at 6:00. 
Oh yeah, don't forget to get tickets early at the LaFortune lnfoDesk. (Just $8 for a super-nice catered dinner and a show-what a deal!) 
Can't wait!!! 
Love, Julie and Bridget 
GEORGE'S 10 QUOTES FOR MK: 
10. You gotta be crazy baby to want a guy like me 
9. George is a GEEK 
8. You're a DORK 
7. Roll 'er on down the hall! 
6. Her very existence ... 
5.1 LOVE MEl 
4. You think you're so funny! 
3. You gotta love DAVE! 
2. Those jeans look good on your ears! 
1. I will love him & squeeze him & pat him on the head ... 
M. R. James 
E. G. Swain Scone to his scone Hobnobs are so working class. You see, in America. it's different--if we like Oreos, we eat Oreos-­whether they're working class or not. 
Thursday, March 31, 1994 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
Women's tennis set to take on the best 
By KATE CRISHAM 
SportS Writer 
There's no rest for the weary. 
The 13th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team will face yet another weekend of difficult competition as they head down South to tackle 16th-ranked Clemson on Sat­urday and top-ranked Georgia on Tuesday. But if the past is any indication, head coach Jay Louderback should be ecstatic about his team's prospects this weekend. 
"We've been playing a lot of tough teams, and we've been playing really well against them, " said Louderback. "You're only going to get better by playing better teams." 
The 12-3-1 Irish have proven the adage about teams rising to their level of competition. They are currently 6-3 against top­25 teams, and have displayed amazing confidence against traditional powerhouses such as Duke and Stanford. Louder­back expects the same sort of confidence from his team this weekend. 
"Clemson is a big match be­cause we're so closely ranked," 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The Indianapolis Colts are accelerating efforts to sign quarterback Jim Harbaugh, according to a published re­port. 
Bill Tobin, the Colts vice president and director of foot­ball operations. revealed that in an interview with The Indi­anapolis Star reported in Thursday's editions. 
Tobin said he indicated that he said. "And Georgia is defi­nitely heatable, if we play real well." 

The tenacious Irish are not easily intimidated, and Louder­back expects this fact to work to his team's advantage. 
"We have absolutely nothing to lose," he said. "They've shown in the past that they aren't afraid to play hard against the top teams." 
Still, the Irish will face two formidable adversaries in Clemson and Georgia. Georgia boasts four nationally ranked players, including third-ranked Angela Lettiere and 33rd­ranked Stacy Sheppard. In addition, Lettiere and Michelle Anderson are currently ranked first in doubles, while Sheppard and Tina Samara are ranked third. Clemson's top singles player is 35th-ranked Boba Tzvetkova, while Janice Durden and Shannon King are ranked sixth in doubles. 
Nevertheless, Louderback is confident about his team's chances. 
"We'll do great if we just play loose," said Louderback. "We can compete with anyone in the country. We definitely won't be intimidated." 
wait until the April 24-25 draft before trying to sign the former Chicago Bears starter. However, Tobin said coach Ted Marchibroda wants the 30­year-old Harbaugh signed as quickly as possible. 
"It was Ted's opinion we should accelerate things before the draft," Tobin said. "Regardless of what we do in the draft, we would like to have Jim in here learning the sys­tem. Then when minicamp rolls around, Jim would be better 
Gillen new coach of Providence 

Lou Holtz 
speaking on 
"How to Achieve Success" 

7: 
30 p.m. Stepan Cente 

Admission is free! 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Xavier University officials and students said Wednesday they will miss Pete Gillen, who left the school after nine years as head basketball coach to take the same job at Providence College. 
Xavier athletic director Jeff Fogelson said the Jesuit school was making plans for locating a successor to Gillen. Fogelson declined to say who will be considered for the job. 
Two of Gillen's former as­sistants at Xavier left last year to become head coaches else­where. Skip Prosser went to Loyola of Maryland, in Balti­more, and Dino Gaudio left to take over at Army. 
Gillen, 46. coached Xavier's Musketeers into the NCAA tournament seven times and the National Invitation Tournament once, this year. His teams compiled an overall record of 202-75. 
His last season with Xavier ended March 23 at Villanova, which beat Xavier 76-7 4 in an NIT quarterfinal game. 
Gillen's departure came as something of a surprise. Xavier recently announced that it was leaving the Midwestern Collegiate Conference to step up to the Atlantic 10 Conference, giving the school more visibility in a league with Temple, Massachusetts and George Washington. 
Gillen had passed up op­portunities in recent years to he considered for the head coaching jobs at Notre Dame, Villanova, Virginia and St. John's. 
Xavier officials also had announced plans to build an on-campus arena, which school officials had hoped would keep Gillen around. 
Photo courtesy of Xavier Sports Information 

Pete Gillen left Xavier yesterday in order to become head coach of Providence. 
New Innovative Technique 

Your Personal Resume on Video 
Innovative Effective Personal 
Call Dave locally for details at 291-3183. Leave name and number on recorder. 
Dava International 

he told Harbaugh in earlier able to compete with the other talks that the team was likely to quarterbacks." 
Sponsored by office of Student Activities 
.., 

.--------.--------------------------------------~-~-..-~--------~----~~--~..------------------~------~-------------­
Thursday, March 31, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
ByJENN:tFJ;.R LEWIS Saint Srnm Editor · 
j; Ih~ Saint Mary•s t.~11nis teapt cl~ed an s..t victory at home y~~terday against the Knights of Calvin College, With that win. the· Belles improved their record to 7-1. while the struggling Knights dropped to 4·3. .· ·. 
Thayma,."Parby, who is the number two singles player Jor Saint Mary's, missed two prac· tices ·this· v1eek due to migraine headaches. Despite her . . had an incredi· ble p · 1yesler9.ah .. 

to have to maintain it. We hav~ f~qr other freshmen our team a11d we are I' pl~ase<f by all of their net•for·.¥·. mances.'! w > · ····· · 
y:. Julie Kuze~. . ..-J...JUu,J11;:11 
'one player. was .· . .· to · today due to a serious back hi .. jury. . . <':; . 
•The match could< have · turned out dP'fei"~ntlyif rna!!. beenable to pl4yt; Sllid Ku.ze~; 
•1 felt that the ](nightS• riurii~ · ber two player couhl have beaten Darby if she had.fac~ Darby asscheduled,"v· '!!'· ....·.·.· 
"Even if it was our···nOlrJUtU line up it ·· ·· w4uld . · 
in;0;;!it8':;i..,.i$;ft:ifill.1f.:J!)•r,.·been a .. • .............."""'"~···' 
s:..fnfi'ii:Rf:~~'is'~ 

HE'S SIMPLY 
IRRESISTIBLE! GQG:l[;)[;))J llifi[l\)[bc!]G))J9 
Love, Mom, Dad, Ben, and David. 
Live Dinner Theater! 
Stu~ent Union Board is proud to present the Repertory Theater ofAmerica 
in NEIL SIMON'S 
The Star-Spangled Girl 
Thursday, April 7 Dinner is served at 6:00 at the LaFortune Ballroom 
Tickets available at the LaFortun. lnfoDesk March 28-April 3 Students: $8, General $15 
---..­
c stuff and more 


SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 11:00 AM 
AT STEPAN CENTER ROAD T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $3.00 IN ADVANCE $5.00 DAY OF RACE 
STUDENT AND STAFF DMSIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT ~\ 
©lK@.il~'fr~ ilJill ~~ )J 
SPONSORED BY 

kk-~ ~~·,. ----------------------~ 
Switzer a possible fit for Cowboys job 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press 
Barry Switzer faces a tough situation as coach of the Dallas Cowboys. Win and he wins with Jimmy Johnson's team. Lose and he should have done bet­ter. 
"Everybody who has ever been around Barry realizes that when he faces a challenge he normally succeeds," said Gary Gibbs, the coach who replaced Switzer at Oklahoma. "There is no question he'll suc­ceed." 
Switzer, named coach of a team that has won back-to­hack Super Bowls, took over at Oklahoma in 1973 when the Sooners were on NCAA proba­tion. They went unbeaten in his first 30 games, winning two national championships. 
"He has a great football mind," said Gibbs, who played and coached under Switzer before taking over for him in 1989. "He's been away from the game, but he'll work hard, he'll pick things up and he'll make that adjustment much quicker than people realize." 
Former players and assistants said Switzer was a natural replacement for Johnson because both are motivators who have tremendous rapport with their players. 
"I just noticed in my rela­tionship with Barry that I think he misses football," said Steve Owens, who won the Heisman Trophy at Oklahoma and has remained close even after Switzer resigned. 
"He misses being around the players and coaches. It was such a part of his life for so long," he said. "For him to have the opportunity to go back and coach I think is great." 
Switzer and Johnson were assistants together at Okla­homa in the early 1970s ­Johnson on defense and Switzer implementing the wish­bone, the trademark of the Sooners during his 16 years as head coach. 
Oklahoma State coach Pat Jones said that won't be a fac­tor when Switzer moves up to the NFL. 
"He's a very capable person. I think he'll do a good job," Jones said. "I think it's a mis­nomer, some thinking if you come out of a wishbone offense you can't coach in the pros. 
"If you're going to hire some­one to run General Motors, you're not going to hire the best mechanic." 
Lucious Selmon, another for­mer player and assistant to Switzer, said the time away from football likely rejuvenated Switzer. 
"He's probably more geared towards professional athletes than collegiate athletes, any­way," Selmon said. 
Charley North, whom Switzer hired in 1979 to coach the Sooners' offensive line, said Switzer's strength was sur­rounding himself with good personnel and using his charis­ma to motivate them. He doesn't expect that to change. 
"His philosophy has always been that players win games," North said. "Coaching helps those players to win games, but you win with players and I believe that will continue to be Barry's philosophy." 

WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 8 & 9 
JACCCOURTS MEN'S &: WOMEN'S DIVISIONS T-SHIRTS TO ALL PARTICIPANTS BRING YOUR OWN RACQUET BALLS WILL BE PROVIDED REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS DEADLINE: THURSDAY. APRIL 7 $6.00 FEE 
7<!-=-~ 
C~OPST~CkS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD 
We Deliver to Your Dorm! 
Mon-Thurs  11 a.m. -9 p.m.  
Fri-Sat  11 a.m.-10 p.m.  
$6minimum $1 service charge for orders under $15  East Location: 525 N. Eddy St. South Bend, IN 232-1177  

Special • c tic)PSl iL-I<.S • Special 
: 10°/oOff Total Purchase ! 
~-------------------------------------------------~ 
Track teams on road 

By WILL MARTIN 
Sports Writer 
After a strong showing at three separate meets last weekend, the Notre Dame track team will look to con­tinue their early success dur­ing the outdoor season this weekend at the Indiana Intercollegiate track meet. 
"The good performances last weekend give us momen­tum that should be able to carry over to this weekend," said senior sprinter Dean Lytle. 
The meet held in Indianapo­lis gives the Irish a special opportunity to showcase their talents close to home. 
"This· is an important meet fm: the team," said senior Joe Curran. "Since the meet is held here in Indiana, we will have a chance to run well and show other teams from the area that we will not be pushed around." 
The runners look ready to turn in another good perfor­mance, according to sopho­more Erica Peterson. 
"The team· is optimistic about this weekend," said Peterson. "Everybody is adjusting to running outside, and I think everybody will be able to improve their times over last weekend." 
In order for the Notre Dame men's team to return with an impressive finish, they will rely on several seniors who placed well last weekend. 
Lytle, coming off a first place finish in the 200m at the Eastern Kentucky Invita­tional, will again look to carry the men's team, along with senior Joe Curran. Curran will look to repeat his victory in the 800m. 
"The field for my event is particularly strong," he Cur­ran. "Both Indiana and Pur­due have strong runners who will push me to run my best." 
The women's team, on the other hand, need high fin­ishes from their hurdlers and relay teams. In the 400m hurdles, sophomore Erica Peterson will attempt to post another win. 
Not only is this meet impor­tant to the Irish for local bragging rights, but it will also give many members the opportunity to post times good enough to qualify for the ICAAAA's. 
"If the weather is warm for running outside, I think we will improve upon last week­end and qualify for the more important meets later in the season," said Peterson. 
Gullrdlng Traa (PG13) 145, 4:15.7:00. 9:30 Nllald Gun SJ (PG13) 12::11,2:45.5:15. 7:45 Ia v..n(PG13) 12:45, 3:00,5:30, 8:00 Dt i1111111r llucb 2(PG) 1:00, 4:00, 6:45, 9:15 Milar Lllgue 2(PG) 1:~ 5, 4::11, 7::11, 10:00 Till Piper (Rl 1:30, 4:45. 7:15, 9:45 Grlldy (PG13) 10:00 
Mrs. Dalllllllrt (PG13) 4:15, 7:00, 9:45 
Jimmy ltoll¥wood (R) 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 

--~--------~~----------------------------------------~~~----~----------------------------------------------------------------. 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 31, 1994 
Fans rave about Eck Stadium Stadium 
continued from page 20

By DYLAN BARMMER The boisterous throng of stu­served as the home away from 
Spans Writer dents filled the seats along the home for the Irish over the past est cynic worth the price of first and third base lines, en­several years. admission. Scott Sollmann got 
It was a day of new begin­veloping the action which un­"It really is a nice park," said the first ever hit, a bleeding nings for the Notre Dame base-folded on the playing field. Irish assistant coach Doug bunt to third that was an error ball program. ... Malloy, athletic director Dick Schreiber. "It was great to see but not ruled that way. Home 
On a day that was brutally Rosenthal, Executive Vice such a good turnout on a field advantage starts early. cold for a spring afternoon, President William Beauchamp, midafternoon game in the mid­For coach Pat Murphy and Frank Eck Stadium was pre­and the influential Frank Eck dle of the week, when many his Irish squad, things are look­sented to the Notre Dame com­himself were on hand for the students are busy." ing up. The team's clubhouse munity, who welcomed it with contest as well, and head coach Praise for the new stadium boasts a TV, VCR, ping pong open arms and jubilant cheers. Pat Murphy and his Irish put a was not reserved to only mem­table, plush sofas, and a 
The field was christened with smile on their faces, adding bers of the Irish squad. framed picture of each playerboth a blessing and a victory, some sunshine to an otherwise "This is a real nice facility," above his locker. It should as Notre Dame President dreary day. commented Indiana first base­prove one hell of a recruiting Edward "Monk" Malloy's open­After freshman fireballer man Jason Cotton, who was tool if Murphy can convinc~ ing prayer and dedication was Larry Mobs closed the door on credited with the first home run high school seniors that base'­followed by the Irish squad's the upstart Hoosiers, members ever at Eck Stadium. "It's top ball played in the biting cold is own ground breaking ceremo­of both ball clubs voiced their quality, which is what you ex­still America's game. ny. ·impressions of Notre Dame's pect at Notre Dame." The Irish got their stadium 
The Irish defeated Indiana new home. Cotton, whose fifth inning and Notre Dame finally noticed University 7-6 in Eck's inaugu­"It's a beautiful park," said solo shot easily cleared the baseball. This baby is a wel­ral contest, which the Notre sophomore first baseman Rob­right field fence, hails from comed addition. It needs a Dame program hopes will be bie Kent, who went 2-for-4 on nearby LaPorte, Indiana, which name though. Something like the first of many such victories the afternoon. "It's definitely a made his feat even more mem­the Rock, or the JACC-short in this facility. step up from the past. Having a orable. and easy. The ECK is a tennis 
Several hundred members of nice facility and good fan sup­"It felt good, although it was pavilion and Frank's is hot dog 
the student body were on hand port helped us today. It's a nice hindered by the loss," com­stand. It will have to be some­for the occasion, displaying field to play on, and it felt good mented Cotton on his home thing fresh. I like The Back­their support of the Irish in a to come out here today." run. "Being from the area The Observer/John Bingham stop. A day could consist of fashion that no doubt provided The "past" that Kent is refer­makes it even more special." starting at The Backstop and the team with a home field ad­ring to is South Bend's Co­It was a day that was special Pitcher Tom Price threw the first ending at The 'Backer. It's a vantage. valeski Stadium, which had for everyone in attendance. real pitch at Frank Eck Stadium. nice fit. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

') 
•

e1eva
• 
ec 1n 
London $275* Paris $293* Frankfurt $293* Rome $355* Athens $355* 
'FI!fes are <n ~ from Chicago based on roundtrip p!t­c~se. Restrictionsapply1tmces !Je net included and fares are Sl.bjro to chlnge. (all u other w:vldwide: destinetKJ!lS. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, !160610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 

roun 
• 

Norwest's lJnbelievable Free Checking will make a believer out of you. It's 100% free. You don't need a minimum balance. You don't pay monthly service charges. Your first order of200 checks is free. And about those sneaky little hidden charges? There are none. Plus, only Norwest gives you a service that lets you do your banking by phone any time of the day or night. And free access to Instant Cash machines in Indiana and Ohio. So come in today and open your Unbelievable Free Checking account. Only Norwest could take an idea this big and make it fly. 
Come to expect the best. 
....... 
NORWEST BANKS 
••, ••® 
South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
237-3300 
© 1994 Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. Member FDIC 

Thursday, March 31, 1994 
The Observer • BASEBALL page 17 

Triduum, The Three Days 
Some folks are so well known to the rest of us that we just need their first name to identify them. Roseanne. Bill and Hillary. Monk. Lou. 
Beginning this afternoon, these next three days are a time so important to the Church we identify them simply as "The Three Days." The Latin word is Triduum, which sounds fancier, but both languages recognize that in the whole of the Church year, the liturgies we will celebrate tonight, tomorrow and Saturday night are accorded a special status. We know these days well enough that we need little to identify them-we don't need a "last name.'' 
During The Three Days, we gather together as a community to celebrate the liturgies of the Last Supper; the Passion and death ofJesus; and the Easter Vigil. We live with Jesus the sorrow and pain and humiliation of death and we enter with him into the joy and promise of resurrection, salvation and life. 
But how do we enter into that salvation? We don't literally die with Jesus ­and in fact, we don't watch him die over and over each year either. Through our own baptism, Jesus calls out to us that salvation demands that we must not miss any of the whole of life -we must believe that to really live is to live as Jesus did, to discover through loving others the whole truth of entrusting our lives to God. We certainly see this on Holy Thursday when we hear the Gospel story ofJesus washing the feet of his disciples and watch the presider wash the feet ofordinary men and women -maybe our neighbor's feet, maybe a stranger's, maybe our own. 
If Holy Thursday is called the Mass of the Lord's Supper, if its purpose is to commemorate most solemnly the sacrament of the Eucharist, then why do we pay so much attention to feet? Feet are unglamorous, plain, even ugly. To wash another's feet is also a simple sign that this kind of humble service to others is ultimately how we are called to salvation, to be the Body of Christ. The sacrament of the Eucharist nourishes us to live as Jesus did -and it means nothing if it does not somehow transform our hearts to wash feet, to wipe away tears, to welcome the outcast, even to suffer injustice or death. 
Sometimes we hear talk that death "puts it all in perspective." In fact, the pain and the sorrow and the seeming finality and negation that is death seems only to laugh at all we consider to be success in our world. Yet God willingly "walked the walk," to use a phrase we hear often these days. God does know most in_timately what it means to be filled with sorrow, even the sorrow of the most difficult mystery to understand or accept, the death of one we love. The challenge to us in our baptism is that we too must walk that walk-we must be willing to suffer with others, to bear a cross. Our own lives are each God's gift to us, and so we are to accept and live them as a gift. God loves us too much not to have placed a treasure in our lives for each of us. Jesus' cross, his humiliating death, helps us to know that even death is parr of that gift. 
W'hy do we call the cross the sign of hope? Because Jesus took all suffering with him in his death on the cross and made it a victory; he let us know that now nothing, no sin of ours, no matter how great, could defeat God's love. Jesus didn't look like a winner on Good Friday. His disciples found him an embarrassment; he seemed like no Messiah but only a failure. Yet before The Three Days are over, Jesus takes up all failure, all death to himself and wraps it in an embrace of love. 
The Three Days conclude with the Easter Vigil, the holiest night of the year. The Gospel story describes the amazement and confusion ofMary 
Magdalene, Mary the mother ofJames, and Salome at their discovery of Jesus' resurrection. They go to his tomb out of sorrow and love, and discover that God's love is greater, more overwhelming, more triumphant than they had ever imagined. We renew our own promises of baptism and join in Jesus' resurrection. We discover again and again that the truth is not failure but triumph, not defeat but victory. We begin to learn that others whom we have encountered, maybe even scorned, in our lives -maybe we ourselves -are not failures at all, but God showing us what being human is truly all about. Jesus reminds us that reality is much more than simply what we can see. 
Often in the midst of our communities during the Easter Vigil, we have with us people who will be baptized, who will join with us in Jesus' challenge, in his embrace of love and his willingness to entrust life and suffering and joy to God. In our Notre Dame community, we have six students among us who will be baptized, and 10 who will be received into full communion with the Catholic Church. All 16 will be confirmed and will share in the body and blood of Christ through the Eucharist. Please keep them in your prayers, and may we all discover again the joy ofJesus' resurrection and the call to live the messages ofThe Three days throughout our lives. 
Kate S. Barrett 

Sacraments of Initiation Reception into Full Comunion 
Heather Hue Lisa Boyett 
Too Keller Cindy Gasperini 
Nolan Koon Elizabeth Jensen 
andy Nachman Stacie Jonas 
Kristina Skiles Hong Ly 
Kay Wakatake Matthew Majikes 
Michael Rosen 
Ethan Shoaps 
Genny Yoder 
.. 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 31, 1994 
I ) 
I! 
: ( 
! 
:~ 
i ·~ 
). 
l 
; 
·' \ 

c 1993 The Ol.ve Garden Restaurants. 

ERE'S 
OURSE
The ObMrver/John Bingham Freshman pitcher Joy Battersby went the distance to record the victory for the Irish in the first game of a double header yesterday. 


Miami the next guest 
HAT 
OMBINES
for Irish, Eck Stadium 

Softball 
continued from page 20 

the day," coach Liz Miller said. "She stepped up and was deter­mined not to let us lose that game." 
Freshman pitcher Joy Bat­tersby went the distance to im­prove her record to 8-4. But she had to throw a lot of pitch­es to get the win. 
"We're still working on Joy's consistency," Miller said. "Her pitches weren't working every time, but she did get stronger as the game went on and really got into a rhythm." 
Battersby gave up nine hits, walked three and struck out one. The Irish could have helped Battersby's cause sever­al times. They had runners in scoring position in three differ­ent innings, but could not capi­talize on the opportunities. They left ten runners on base in the game. 
In the second inning, Steph Pinter was stranded at second after singling and stealing sec­ond base when Christy Con­noyer struck out looking and Kara McMahon hit a dribbler back to the pitcher. Miller was also concerned with Notre Dame's poor base running. 
"We did some dumb things on the bases," she said. "We 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Writer 
Most teams would be reluc­tant to face the 4th-ranked team in a three-game series over a holiday weekend. 
But not when the opponent is 
the University of Miami and 
we're talking Irish baseball. 
The Notre Dame baseball team (8-4) faces the Hurricanes in a doubleheader on Saturday and a single game on Sunday this weekend, but the Irish are not intimidated by Miami's 23­5 record. 
The team has faced highly ranked, highly successful Mi­ami teams in the past and those games rate as some of the great upsets in the history of Irish baseball. 
In October 1988, Notre Dame shocked the Canes with back to back wins in front of 4,200 peo­ple in Coveleski Stadium. In 1989, the Irish beat Miami 4-2 despite the efforts of future major-leaguers Joe Grabe and Alex Fernandez. In 1992, the Irish took one of three from the Hurricanes down in Miami. 
On the brink of elimination from the 1992 NCAA regional, Notre Dame topped Miami in front of 4,073 Hurricane fans 6-3. The Irish would win two more games before falling to Miami in the regional final. 
Despite this history of upsets, the Irish are not willing to give Miami any sort of edge. Coach Pat Murphy wants all the ad­vantages in his corner. 
"I hope it's 12 degrees," said Murphy. "Miami's got a great club, great hitting and good pitching." 
Another advantage for Notre Dame is it's new stadium. The Irish had their first true home field advantage against Indiana made stupid decisions and weren't looking at the people who are supposed help make those decisions." 

Both Goetz and Knudson were caught stealing during the game, and Sara Hayes was thrown out trying to score on Connoyer's single in the sixth. 
"You can't leave a lot of peo­ple on the bases and make the mistakes we did and win ball games," Miller said. "Somehow we did." 
Cline and Notre Dame contin­ued to roll in the second game, knocking starter Holmes out of the box in the third inning as they scored all five of their runs. 
Keys began the hit parade with a sharp double to left field, scoring Goetz. Pinter, Con­noyer and McMahon all fol­lowed with singles. Pinter and McMahon each picked up an RBI. 
Then, with runners at the corners, two outs and a new wolverine pitcher, Tracy Carr, on the mound, Cline stepped up and shocked everyone in at­tendance at Ivy Field. 
The second baseman execut­ed dropped a bunt in front of the pitchers' mound, scoring Connoyer. 
"Michele's a good bunter," Miller said of her decision to call for a safety squeeze. "They had just put the regular third baseman in to pitch, so I thought maybe we could catch the new girl off guard. It worked perfectly." 
"Coach said if I got a good pitch to put it down," said Cline, who was two-for three for the game with a double. "I knew Christy would be on top of things and the play would work if I executed." 
Terri Kobata allowed only nine hits over seven innings en route to the victory. She also had to work out some tough sit­uations, including a rocky first inning. 
Kobata gave up three straight singles to load the bases, but struck out the next two batters to get out of the jam. She struck out ten batters total for the game. 
The Irish must now prepare to travel to the University of Illinois-Chicago Monday. 
The last time the teams played was earlier this season at the Tampa Invitational this spring. The Flames jumped all over Notre Dame in that game, scoring seven runs in the first inning. 
"They are an aggressive team who hit the ball well," Miller says. "These will be two tough ball games, but VIC is heatable if we show up with confidence. Today's performance, even with our mistakes, should give us what we need." 
in the home opener yesterday. For the players, it's a change. "It's weird to have a home 

TALJAN ND
field advantage," said senior Matt Haas, who played at Cov­eleski Stadium for the last three years. "It was hard to focus for awhile." 
The Hurricanes should be 


ALL 
~CONOMICS.able to command Notre Dame's attention this weekend. Miami has won 14 of its last 15 games under first-year coach Jim 
Morris. 
I 
I
YOU
Three of those wins came 
over then 1Oth-ranked Ten­

CAN I 
nessee, which defeated Notre Dame 8-5 at the College Base­
EAT
ball Classic. Miami allowed the 
I 
Volunteers only one run in the 
I.

SPAGHETTI, I 
three-game sweep. Miami comes into the game 

GARDE~J SALAD, ? ~ 
with several talented pitchers and hitters. Leading the Canes 

& BREA.DSTICKS 
' 4o.ow:,.,.
I .,.
at the plate are senior Luis 
I
Hernandez, junior Bruce Thompson and junior Mike 

$5.95 ~~-­
....... ··""'' 
/

Metcalfe. Hernandez went 4-for-5 with , 
TUESDAYS, AFTER 4 Ptv1. 3 doubles in last Sunday's 8-6 win over Jacksonville. Last 
li~:_M,, • ' 
~--~~::;-:';'4'" ~----~---I o 
week, Metcalfe homered in two 

/ <~·~_.,,.,-, ·.-, ;~ . . -T.. "" 
straight games while Thomp­

...~ ~: -~~§b·4 ~<< ::-. §Z:~t \j 
son drove in three runs in a 5-1 win over Southern Illinois. 

Talk about a heavy course lcod. If you're a ~Jotre Dome or St. fVIor-y's
Miami's pitching staff is 

student or staff member, just show us your ID ond we'll give you ali-you­
strong to say the least. Fresh­man J.D. Arteaga has a 5-0 

can-eat spaghetti with your crhJice of morinaro, tomato or meot souce. 
record, including wins over 

Plus unlimited fresh garden soiod and 
Jacksonville and Florida. 

worm .gorl1c breodsticks. It's ol!
Junior transfer Eric Morgan has also become a mainstay in 

just $5.95. And you don't hove 
the rotation after going five 

to be a math major to figure 
innings and giving up only two 

out that that's a great deal.
hits in his first start of the year. The closer is junior Danny Graves who has notched nine saves already this year. 
For the Irish, freshman Darin Schmalz and classmate Larry Mohs might start Saturday's 


·Opposite Un;·,ersity Pork Mall, 277-6503. 
games and Tom Price will start on Sunday. 


Thursday, March 31, 1994 

The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER 

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

-.... 
The Acoustic Cafe 
Thursday Night In the Huddle From 9pm to 1 :30 am 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 

@\Th oomoow oofiJ 00[hlll{l!Kl lKllKHKlffil 00 1Kl 00 UJ 00 [{\\ oow 00liD 0000 OOWliDlKJ 
.-~,;~~ 
~ 

BILL WATTERSON 

11\P€ . 1-\utE (eMe. 0:. fP.volt•~E. PAll-,. .. 
I 
CROSSWORD 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
'(Ylv(" "'' l•\/E. D T 1-W\..-Do(,. 
IR•sK (so11) . OH "IR.1s H .. 
E"E~ S.,...c. l-k WM A Vuf'P"f 
1-\£ WAs 
H<>L'b (Yh::. •• 

(Yl"l (s•a) l3ESTEs.­F~'"""o ... " 
51 Flagging conversation? 53 Headstrong 55 Pedigreed 56 Personal personnel 57--in (curbed) 58 American saint and family 59 Sniggler 
DOWN 
1 A fiancee of Napoleon 2 Kindergarten book 3 Nerve branch 4 Slavic sovereign s People of the Five Nations & Something you go by 7 Eight-time 
~AT p£-RI'T'~? 
""' 
0 


"Well, Donald -forgot your sun block, I see." 
DINING HALL , 





38 Hatchery 4& Word on a bill 39 Put on a 48 Baby pedestal 50 Second leader 40 Like a newborn 
52 Away from 41 Sweetie harm's way 43 Funereal, in 54 Wimple Folkestone wearer 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
FRIENDS DON'T lH fRifNDS ORIVf DRUNK 
TAKE THE KEYS CAll ACAB. TAKE ASTANO.. 

... 
Norris Trophy winner 8--to say 9 Brown and others 10 Reach in amount 11 More fit 12 Smart 14 Clobber 
15 Boy Scouts of America founder 
t8 January birthstone 22 Tahitian dish 2& Shuttle group 
29 Former U.S. poet laureate -VanDuyn 
31 Bell's ringer? 33 --best friend 34 Master hands 35 Lives 3& Ennoble 
ACROSS 

1 Game with numbers 1 to 20 6 Crosby to Hope, often 12 Adulterate 13 Deceptive alloys 
15 One who's left holding the bag? 
1& Pontiac model 17 Definitely not ascetic 19 Gulf War 
combatant 20--ski 21 Thrombus 23 Mini-peninsula 
24 Hautboy, e.g. 25 Capital east of 
Jerusalem 27 Exact point 28 Roy Orbison's 
"-Baby" 30 Silo fan 32 George C. Scott 
feature 35 Fox 37 English martyr 41 French cooking 
staple 42 Those opposed 44 Wagner's earth 
goddess 45 Opportunist 47 Chinese: Prefix 48 Spirit 49 Postulate 


·; ~ 
I~ 
( 
'1, 
l 
l 
~' '•I SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, March 31, 1994 
~ Irish rally to take two wins i r from tenacious Wolverines 
I I 
By MEGAN McGRATH "I wasn't thinking about putting all Sports Writer kinds of pressure on myself," Cline said. "I just wanted to get on base and let the 
~ 
Late inning heroics are getting to be rest of the team pull me through."~· the norm for the Notre Dame softball The Irish lit up reliever Kelly Holmes.
' 
team. The freshman right-hander uncorked a 

The Irish rallied from a 1-0 deficit in wild pitch to advance Cline, and then the bottom of the seventh inning to beat walked Jenna Knudson. She would then the visiting Michigan Wolverines 2-1 in give up consecutive singles to Amy the team's home opener Tuesday. Notre Rueter and Liz Goetz, who drove in Cline Dame carried that momentum into the to tie the game. second game, cruising to a 5-1 win. Later in the inning, with the bases 
This time the hero was junior sec.ond loaded, Holmes could not find the strike baseman Michele Cline. zone and walked Andy Keyes on five 
Leading off the seventh, Cline ripped pitches to give the Irish the game win­the first pitch from Wolverine starting ning run. pitcher Kelly Kovach for a single, caus­"Michele Cline was really the hero of ing the Michigan coaches to remove 
Kovach from the game. see SOFTBALL I page 18 
Indiana first victim of Frank Eck Stadium 
Irish hold off late rally 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
Notre Dame (8-4) made itself right at home in its new stadium with a 7-6 win over Indiana yesterday afternoon thanks to a total team effort. 
Indiana coach Bob Morgan, who became the first coach to lose in Frank Eck Stadium, was not thrilled with that distinction. 
"If I had to do it all over again, I don't think I'd come up here and open the sta­dium," said Morgan. 
In front of 1,913 Irish fans, his Hoosiers (19-7) became 

The Observer/ John Bingham Irish third baseman Matt Haas makes an acrobatic play to throw out an Indiana runner in Notre Dame's 7-6 victory yesterday. see BASEBALL I page 1 7 
J 0 C K STRIP 
What the Eck? A nice fit. • • 
I
t was like witnessing a Eck's ERA is not being tallied. for the man, Eck. Most stu­birth. The opening of Not even the weather could dents thought his last nilme Notre Dame's newest toy, spoil it. An amazing 1319 fans was Pavilion. Frank Eck Stadium, was full of showed up despite the bitter Eck smiled a lot this day. hype and hope. cold and cloudy skies. Give Notre Dame did its best to cre­
Notre Dame officials kept Notre Dame officials all the ate a baseball atmosphere. track of firsts at an alarming credit. They put forth full Fans sang Take Me Out to the pace. The first hit, the first effort when breaking new Ball Game and ate peanuts. run-all info for the forthcom­ground. Admission was free An organ provided songs dur­
ing Notre and the first 500 fans got free ing dull moments. And in be­D a m e Subway sandwiches and cups tween innings, the booth Trivial and buttons that read: "I was blared music. The choice song Pursuit there. Opening Day Frank Eck was Bruce Hornsby's Fields of game. Stadium." Gray. An interesting choice to Irishopoly As always on campus, free say the least. will also food is a sure draw. There were even cute pro­benefit, Frank Eck enjoyed the mas between innings. For getting a thrilling game from the press those keeping score at home, new space box. His seat was only a few here's one Irish officials may on the feet from the radio booth. The have missed: The first remote board. announcers would say things control car to pass home plate 
There were actually three like, "It's a chilly day here at in the new stadium was the opening pitches. Not one was Frank Eck," and the man blue one. Dot racing is a strike and the generous would turn to see who was planned for the near future. donor, Mr. Eck, failed to reach calling his name. It's some­The game itself was well 
the plate. But that didn't mat­thing he'll have to get used to. played and to even the great­ter in the end. Notre Dame But the name of the stadium 
see STADIUM I page 16
beat Indiana 7-6 and Mr. is an actually an improvement 






I 
,•
'• 
.. 
~­
l I 
I' 
{ 
' 
.! 




