·~---~ 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Week aims for awareness 
By LIZ RANKIN News Writer 
Tim Osborn. Linda Dawson. Mark Mitrius. Aaron Jones. These are just a few of the names on the black footprints currently located throughout the main corridor of Le Mans Hall at Saint Mary's College. 
This week, October 16-20, has been dubbed Alcohol Awareness Week by the Saint Mary's Residence Hall Associa­tion (RHA). Throughout the week, activities promoting the awareness of the potentially negative affects of alcohol have been scheduled and organized. 
Saint Mary's RHA and the Le Mans Hall Council worked to­gether on the project of creat­ing the Walkway Memorial. Students were given the oppor­tunity to write the names of those people they knew who were affected by alcohol in a negative way. The names writ­ten on the footprints are those belonging to current and for­mer students, parents and friends who have either died or been injured in alcohol-related incidents. 
The footprints were chosen to represent those negatively af­fected by alcohol, due to their sheer visibility factor. 
"The footprints make a very good visual and emotional point," said Diana Lanzillotta. a member of the Le Mans Hall Council. 
Colette Shaw, Regina Hall Di­rector, stressed that a major fo­cus of the week was to help the students of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame become more tainly not unique to the Saint Another focus of this week aware of the place that alcohol Mary's and Notre Dame com­has been to let the student body should have in their lives. munity. know that help is available. On 
"We do not condone alcohol Recognizing this problem, the Saint Mary's campus alone, use but we realize it exists and RHA decided that they needed there are several places to we want to help people become to educate people about the turn. Among these are the aware," she said. safety and the reality of the Counseling Center in Le Mans, 
RHA realizes that drinking is negative affects of alcohol. As Health Services, the Wellness a huge part of the culture on a result, they choose to partici­Office in Regina, and the every college campus and that pate in Alcohol Awareness Residence Life Staff. 
the problem of drinking is cer-Week. 

Notre Dame ranks first 
in doctoral recipients 
Kommers inaugurated into endowed chair 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
News Writer 
Donald Kommers, noted pro­fessor of law at Notre Dame, was inaugurated into the Joseph Robbie endowed chair at the University last night. 
Kommers was given the tenured position for being one of the top international schol­ars of the German legal system. Held in high repute by his col­leagues, Kommers has been a senior fellow at universities in Germany and a member of the faculty at Catholic University of America. 
Kommer gave an inaugural address to the Notre Dame fac­ulty and members of the public. Kommers compared the differ­ences in the constitutional law decisions of Germany, Canada, and the United States in three highly controversial areas of free speech. These three areas were the suppression of hate speech, of libelous speech, and the destruction of national symbols. 
Kommers chose Germany, Canada, and America to use as examples because the high courts of these three countries are the most regarded in the world, he said. 
Yet, the differences in "their constitutional interpretations are different enough to engage scholarly focus." 
According to Kommers, the differences in the constitutional law of the three countries can be traced to "overarching val­ues" particular to those three countries. For example, the United States focuses on pro­tecting liberty, while Germany looks to protect human dignity, and Canada embraces fraterni­ty. 
These peculiarities can be 
understood, Kommers said, when seen in light of the differ­ent histories of the three coun­tries. 
America fought a revolution, and after victory declared that there would be no censorship. The German constitution, on the other hand, "rose out of the ashes of World War II wanting to restore basic dignity." Separate from the other two, the charter of Canada gives a respect to elective bodies. This respect cannot be found in the United States. 
In Canada, Kommers said, the parliament is shown re­spect as a modern parliamen­tary democracy. It has the power to make explicit laws governing speech in order to 
. promote its "moral and spiritu­al values and respect for the laws." 
While in America, he said, this would not be tolerated. 
To the contrary, in the case New York Times vs. Sullivan, the Supreme Court disallowed any laws granting financial compensation for libel against public officials except in cases of reckless disregard for the truth or malice. 
The court stated that errors would occur in uninhibited debate, and the debate was necessary to a vibrant democ­racy and thus demanded prior­ity over accidental mistakes. 
The chair was endowed by Joseph Robbie, the owner of the Miami Dolphins, in honor of his son, who graduated in 1966 but passed away in 1976. Notre Dame has 103 endowed chairs, 73 of which have been filled. 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame ranked first by a wide margin among U.S. Catholic colleges and universities in a recent study that tracked the bac­calaureate origins of doctoral recipients over the last thirty years. 
The study, which surveyed 156 Catholic colleges and uni­versities throughout the coun­try. ranked Catholic institutions of higher learning according to the total number of undergrad­uates per decade who went on to earn doctorates in the 1960s, 70s, and 80s. 
With a total number of 2,463 graduates receiving a doctoral degree, Notre Dame edged Fordham University by 600 graduates. Behind Fordham, Boston College ranked third with 1,800. 
Other schools to place in the top five were St. Louis Univer­sity (4th) and Loyola University (5th). Rounding out the top ten were Marquette University (6th). Georgetown University (7th). Manhattan University (8th), Catholic University of America (9th), and the Univer­sity of Dayton (10th). 
Notre Dame also placed first in each decade researched in the study. 
According to Nathan Hatch, dean and vice president of the Graduate School, the reason Notre Dame undergraduates have been so successful in ob­taining their doctorates is due to "the combination of the fact that Notre Dame attracts some of the best and brightest" Catholic students. 
·"The graduate faculty and the graduate programs in 22 doctoral fields are models for what graduate education is," Hatch said. 
When asked why he thought 
The Observer/Staff Photographer 

NO supporters
Georgetown ranked 7th in the study, Hatch said he thought 

Two young Irish fans from Blossom Land Learning Center in Berrien Springs, Ml enjoy the lakes. 
see STUDY/ page 4 



-

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 21, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN / 



Midter01s? Bring on the plaque! 

Drums, please. The event we've all been waiting for has fmally arrived. October break is here at last and its timing could not be better-we can all use a break right about now. 
There have been too many consecutive sleep­less nights, the laundry is piling up, and most of us have depleted our supplies of shampoo, toothpaste, and 
Sudafed, not to mention money. So it's time to restock, but more importantly, it's time to relax. 
I don't know about you, but it seems like people around here have been a little edgey lately. Maybe it's just my roommates and me. Normally we get along fme, but these past few days have been hell. 
On Tuesday night, we decided to order a pizza and since not all of us had cash handy, one of my roommates wrote a check to Papa. We knew that we'd pay her back later. No big deal. or so we thought. But theri my room­mate made each of us sign our names and social security numbers to a $2.50 promissory note. 
Later that same night, two of the four of us had to write papers which were due, of course, on Wednesday. Since we share the same computer, patience is a necessity. One of my roommates, however, sat counting "One M-i-s-s-i-s-s-i-p-p-i, two M-I..." while the other worked feverishly on her paper. 
Wednesday brought more havoc. A sleep­less Tuesday night made for a crabby Wednesday morning. When one of my room­mates wore two different shoes to her 8 a.m. class, I was amused. My other roommate, to whom the shoes belonged, was not enter­tained. She couldn't fmd the mate to her other loafer and was late for work. 
It doesn't help that our room is so cluttered at this point that we have to wade through our dirty laundry. Sadly enough, one of my room­mates confessed to wearing her underwear inside out by Thursday. As much as this repulsed me, I could only justify her actions by lumping this case into the "we are college stu­dents" category. 
Thursday morning was not feasible without some sort of caffeine supplement, so we hit the soda machines. As we approached the machines, one of my roommates dashed ahead and checked all the change slots for some extra coins. Upon darting back to our room we saw a message on the memo board that read, "Did you brush your teeth today? If not, maybe that would be a better use of time than downing caffeine." No doubt, this message was aimed at any one of us who hit the Coke rather than the Scope. 
We anticipated Friday with elation. By the time this morning came, we were hardly speaking._ Our hair was coming out in dumps and we were beginning to question our pur­pose in life as students. The insanity had to stop. 
And now that the long awaited broak is here, let the relaxation begin. The only prob­lem is that this break seems to be ironically packed with work. There is a plethora of pro­jects, papers, and extracurricular commit­ments. But we can all use this week for a break of the spirit, our teeth will thank us. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News David Ring Brad Prendergast Sports Rian Akey Viewpoint Krista Nannery Lab Tech Mike Shaf  Production Susan Marx Jackie Moser Accent Tom RolanJ Graphics Robert Bollman  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Munday d;rough Friday cxccpt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer b. a mcmhC'r uf the: Associated l,rc~. All rcpmJuction righrs arc: rc:sc:rvcJ. 
·~ . ; .. ; ; ;
....... , .... ...-..·.·..·······4.·.·...·.· .. 
Patti Carson Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Israelis want separation from Palestinians to stop attacks 
TEL AVIV, Israel • , • Fi~e year~ ago, Gila Samou~hi buried India s tnbal war her sister, killed-when a Muslim funda-A1 . · db tw N. 
· 1 ong-srmmenng 1eu e een aga
mentalist p unged a commuter bus and Kuki tribesmen has left 300 civilians down a raVIne. On Thursday, she wept dead in the past year 
over the fresh grave of a sister-in-law  ·  ·  
slain in Tel Aviv's bloody bus bombing.  so miles  ··  
"We have to kick all the Palestinians  ~  
out. I don't want to see them near me,"  . .  m  

said a distraught Mrs. Samouchi, echo-: NEPAL . ing a growing sense among Israelis that · only a total physical division between the two feuding peoples will stop the violence. 
In a first step, Rabin's government on Thursday ordered the occupied West Bank and autonomous Gaza Strip ~~~~~~~~~::J~~~ 
sealed indefinitely, barring thousands i~ of Palestinian laborers from work in Israel. 
Rabin also hinted that he wants to move Jewish settlers out of Palestinian areas earlier than 1999, the date fore­seen for implementing a final settle-· ment in the Israel-PLO accord. 
The persistent violence may leave him no choice but to act quickly, since each atrocity breeds more bloodshed and undercuts support for making peace with the Palestinians. 
In an opinion poll in the Yedioth Aharonoth daily, 85 percent supported 
the closure of the territories and 71 
Princess Di creates stir at NYC hotel 
NEW YORK 
Now here's a headline: ROBIN WILLIAMS, PRINCESS DI SPEND NIGHT IN MANHATTAN HOTEL. It's true! But the problem, particularly for the Fleet Street crowd that followed the Princess of Wales from London to New York City: their paths never crossed. A horde of photographers and Dianophiles waited Thursday outside 

the Carlyle Hotel for an appearance by the princess, who arrived Wednesday. The 33-year-old princess is trying to keep a low profile during her visit to the states, while the publication of her likely-to-be-ex-husband's authorized biography creates a frenzy back home in England. "She's fled to America, basically, to get away from the voracious Fleet Street rat pack, who's been following this incredible soap opera saga of the unhappy wives of Windsor," explained Richard Mineards, who was handling those chores for the London Daily Express. Until Diana's brief appearance, the day's only excitement came when actor Williams ducked out of the hotel. "Did you see the princess?" one person shouted. "No," said Williams. 
Trucks may be source of salmonella 
MINNEAPOLIS 
The outbreak of salmonella among people who had eaten Schwan's ice cream may have come from raw eggs carried in trucks that later brought ingredients to the ice cream factory, investigators said Thursday. Thousands of people in at least 35 states said they got food poisoning after they ate Schwan's ice cream. The Centers for Dis­ease Control and Prevention has confirmed about 400 eases of salmonella poisoning in 32 states and said there are 3,000 to 5,000 more suspected cases. Food and Drug Commissioner David Kessler said that the eggs were car­ried in tanker trucks that were later used to deliver pas­teurized ice eream mix to a Sehwan's-plant in Marshall. 
Friday, Oct. 21 

{)
{) 

{) 
OHIO 
lrndianapoli3 70" I 
ILL 
• 

{)
{)
~ 

4,~,~A. 6.fr Q ~ ~ u 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow lea Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy VIa Assoclalttd PIBSS GraphlcsNet C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc . 
........... .,;, .........".".·..·..·-·..·."."....·...~.-......-..-... -.-..-.-..-.-..-..-..-....-.-...-.-... -.·.• ~ 
The Accu-Weatherllll forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 21. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  
Atlanta  76  57  
Baltimore  69  52  
Boston  62  55  
Chicago  70  42  
Columbus  62  44  

'I ... .. "  

....... , ............. . 

Robber offers nuns mythical fortune 
MANSFIELD, Ohio 

It seemed like a nice offer to some nuns. He just may not have the $1 million to give. Thomas Phelan, a con­victed robber, said in interviews Wednesday he would donate $700,000 in property and $326,000 in cash at a reception scheduled at the prison tonight. He said he in­herited the money from his mother. But a relative who spoke on the condition of anonymity told The Associated Press today that Phelan has no inheritance to give. Phe­lan, 42, of St. Louis, had said he inherited the money and land in Trumbull County from his mother, who died two months ago. The Trumbull County auditor's office said today the property listed in the name of Phelan's late parents, Juanita and Vern Phelan, was worth only $45,500. Phelan had said he wanted to make the dona­tion to Sister Evelyn Ancilla and the Sisters of the Society of the Transfiguration in Cincinnati to help fund Sister Ancilla's dream -a halfway house for women jailed in Ohio for striking back at their batterers. Phelan isn't par­ticularly religious, but he credits Sister Ancilla's prison ministry at the Mansfield Correctional Institution with getting him to give up devil worship. 

Korean bridge collapse kills 32 people 
SEOUL, South Korea 

A section of a major bridge that crosses the Han River in Seoul collapsed during rush hour Friday, and police said at least 32 people were killed. One public bus, one van and about 10 cars fell into the river when about 50 yards of the four-lane Songsutaekyo bridge collapsed. The bridge is 1,160 yards long and 20 yards wide. Rescue divers and boats that rushed to the river rescued about 30 people and recovered at least 32 bodies, police said. Recent news reports have said that many of the 15 bridges crossing the Han River need repairs. The Songsutaekyo bridge was built in 1979. 

RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Dallas  80  68  
Denver  71  37  
Los Angeles 81  58  
Miami  84  70  
Minneapolis 66  43  
......... , ~ ............ .  

percent favored the idea of sending the army into the Gaza Strip to "liquidate terrorists." The poll of 502 people, taken Wednesday night, had a margin of error of four percentage points. 
At the burial of Mrs. Samouchi's sis­ter-in-law, 56-year-old Pua Yadger from the Tel Aviv suburb of Givataim, anger and frustration filled the air. 
"How much more can we take?" wailed some among the 300 mourners. 
"I will avenge you, mother!" shouted one of Mrs. Yadger's three sons, 25­year-old Motti, as the coffin draped with a blue-and-white Israeli flag was low­ered into the grave. 
''I'll become another Goldstein," he yelled, referring to Jewish settler Baruch Goldstein who gunned down 29 Palestinians as they prayed at the Tomb of the Patriarchs in the West Bank town of Hebron on Feb. 25. 
It was the Hebron massacre that set off an unprecedented series of revenge bombings and kidnappings by the Muslim militant group Hamas, a leading opponent of the peace process. 
Revenge was also the theme in a Hamas videotape showing a farewell message by the alleged suicide attacker, 21-year-old Salah Abdel-Rahim Hassan Assawi, who blew up the No. 5 bus in downtown Tel Aviv with 45 pounds of 
New Orleans 81  68  
New York  67  54  
Philadelphia 69  54  
Phoenix  87  59  


r------------------------~------­
Friday, October 21, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 




Pipeline ruptures as Texas flooding continues 
By MICHAEL GRACZVK 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Roiling floodwaters appar­ently ruptured a 40-inch pipeline Thursday, sending pools of burning gasoline down the rain-swollen San Jacinto River and setting fire to homes and boats on the banks. 
At least 59 people were treat­ed for minor burns and smoke inhalation. Much of the area had already been evacuated because of days of flooding that have claimed at least 15 lives. 
"It looked like hell opened up on the water and the whole river was gasoline," said Mike Norman, who was on the bank trying to retrieve his sailboat when the explosion occurred. 
Some 11,500 people were forced from their homes by heavy rain that began Sunday. Skies were clearing, the murky water had begun to recede in most areas, and some people were returning to their dam­aged homes when the pipeline broke east of Houston, sending smoke and flame hundreds of feet into the air. 
"There were three loud 
booms and then an immediate 
black cloud," said a witness, 
Doug Trowbridge. "It just be­
gan to spread like wildfire." 
Several houses, mobile homes 
and boats on the banks were 
set ablaze. Schools and busi­nesses in the path of the smoke were ordered evacuated. The number of people affected was not immediately known. 
"At this point, we believe the force of the floodwaters caused the pipeline to break," said Ed Schaefer, spokesman for the state Department of Public Safety. 
The explosion occurred near "The Spaghetti Bowl," the mouth of the nation's interstate pipeline network. The broken line, owned by Colonial Pipeline, carries gasoline from nearby Pasadena to New Jer­sey. 
The line "is the major pipeline bringing product from the Gulf Coast to the East Coast," said Geo'rge Ellis, a trader for GSC Energy in At­lanta. 
The rupture caused gasoline future prices to rise in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Wholesale unleaded gasoline for November delivery rose 1.95 cents to 49.95 cents a gallon, a seven-week high. 
The Coast Guard was invesii­
gating a possible rupture of a 
second line nearby. The sub­
stance believed leaking was not 
immediately known. 
Emergency crews had trouble 
putting out the fire because 
their boats could not handle the 
swirling river currents and fire 
trucks were blocked by flooded 
roads, said Coast Guard Cmdr. 

Eric Nicholas. 
Valves on either side of the 2­mile section of pipeline were shut off, but gasoline is likely to continue spilling into the river, said George Tenley, associate administrator of pipeline safety for the U.S. Transportation De­partment. 
More than 400,000 gallons of gasoline spilled before the shut­off, Tenley said. The 2-mile sec­tion can hold hundreds of thou­sands of gallons, he said. 
Tenley said operators of 11 other pipelines carrying haz­ardous chemicals in the area were asked to shut down their lines for fear that the fire might spread to them. 
Flames reached at least one barge, burning foam insulation used to seal the compartments from water and emitting cyanide smoke, Nicholas said. Cyanide is a foam insulation in­gredient, and the smoke is not dangerous unless people are close to it, he said. 
East and southwest of the 
city, the water was still rising 
from the storms' runoff. About 
4,000 residents evacuated Lib­
erty, about 30 miles east of 
Houston, as the Trinity River 
crested at 30 1/2 feet, 6 1/2 feet 
above flood stage. 
Kelley Evans was seeing the 
area's fourth flood in five years. 
This one was her last, she said 
through tears: ''I'm getting 
out." 
Clinton signs $60 billion bill 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press 
FRAMINGHAM, Mass. 

President Clinton used the signing of a federal education bill Thursday to sing the prais­es of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy and to assert that Kennedy and other endangered Democrats are gaining in popularity as Election Day approaches. 
"The fog is beginning to clear in America," he proclaimed at a town-hall rally for Kennedy and other Massachusetts Democratic office-seekers. 
Despite Kennedy's 32 years in the Senate, Clinton portrayed him as a man brimming with new ideas and one of Congress' ablest members at forging bi­partisan efforts. 
"You should vote for the agents of change, not for the agents of yesterday," Clinton said. 
Earlier, the president stood on a wooden platform in the muggy gymnasium at Fram­ingham High School and signed a bill to provide some $60 bil­lion in federal education aid over five years. 
Lawmakers of both parties looked on as he signed the measure before an audience of 


~PR~t{G BR£Ak'95 
BIANCHI 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 

ROSSI 
COREY OR BOB AT BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS TOURS 1-800-875-4525 
PAATl'U trtR.Y ffXGNT!! OP£ff BAR. FROM 10:.30PM-3:00AM AT THE BEST ffiGtff 'LU6'S IN THE WORLD!!! 
about 1,000 students and par­ents. 
The Boston-area events came as Clinton concluded two days l of campaigning here and in New York for Kennedy and New York Gov. Mario Cuomo. Both Democratic giants are locked in difficult re-election campaigns. 
Clinton generally has higher approval ratings in the North­east than he has in the rest of the nation. 
Both days of campaign events drew enthusiastic audiences, a welcome change from some of the lukewarm responses Clinton has drawn on campaign trips elsewhere. 
An overflow of a few thou­sand people waited for Clinton outside the political rally, and they cheered loudly when he emerged. The president spent about 15 minutes shaking hands with the voters lining the street before climbing into his limousine. 
Clinton's visit coincided with the publication of a new poll that appeared to show Kennedy doing better against his GOP ri­val, Massachu.setts business­man Mitt Romney. 
The Boston Herald-WCVB-TV 
poll, conducted Monday and 
Tuesday, showed Kennedy with 
50 percent and Romney with 40 
percent, with a margin of error 
of 4.9 percent. 

By SUSANNE SCHAFER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

More than 100,000 U.S. troops are being taken off alert for possible movement to the Persian Gulf now that Iraq's threat to Kuwait has abated, the Pentagon announced on Thursday. 
Instead, 13,000 soldiers ­including 5,000 already on ground in the area-and 270 aircraft will be moved into the region to conduct exercises for an undetermined period. 
At one time, the Pentagon had envisioned sending some 150,000 men and women in the event a ground war against Iraq broke out. 
"The vast preponderance of forces are being taken off alert and will not deploy," aid Lt. Gen. Howell Estes, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
Estes told a Pentagon briefing that the threat Iraq once posed to Kuwait when it massed nearly 75,000 troops on its southern border is receding. "The threat ... is not totally eliminated, but changes in its posture allow us to make some changes in our forces," he said. 
Love, Felice, Fran, Kate, Tricia and Yuli 
When the crisis was at its height earlier this month, the Pentagon had alerted three Army divisions, a Marine expe­ditionary force, two aircraft carrier battle groups, dozens of ships and more than 700 air­craft for duty in the Gulf . region. Only a fraction of those will now deploy, a senior 
Pentagon official said. 
In connection with the troop 
decision, the Iraqis have been 
informed they are "not to bring 
forces below the 32nd parallel, 
or the United States will take 
appropriate action, which is 
undefined," the official said. 
The United States has 26,000 
soldiers, sailors, airmen and 
Marines in the Gulf region, in­
cluding those aboard the air­
craft carrier USS George 
Washington and 16 other Navy 
ships. About 5,000 U.S. troops 
are on the ground there. 
A senior Pentagon official, 
speaking on condition of 
anonymity, said plans now call 
for sending 274 combat and 
support aircraft and another 
8,000 or so ground troops for 
the exercises. 
For the time being, the 2,000 

Marines on board the amphibi­
ous assault ship USS Tripoli 
and its support ships also will 
remain in the region. 
FREE INFORMAT10111 AND RESERVATIONS 

1•800•SUNCHASE 
NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page4 
Dutch mercy killing shown in documentary 
ByJENIFER CHAO 
Associated Press 
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands 

Dutch television viewers Thursday night saw the first televised case of mercy killing. 
The one-hour documentary, "Death Upon Request," chroni­cled the story of wheelchair­bound Cees van Wendel de Joode, a 63-year-old Amster­dam man who suffered from the degenerative muscle disor­der Amyotrophic Lateral Scle­rosis. 
ALS is also known as Lou Gehrig's Disease, after the fa­mous New York Yankee base­ball player whose brilliant ca­reer was cut short because of it. 
The documentary was pro­duced by the Dutch IKON broadcasting association with the approval of the patient and his physician. 
The video sequences took Van Wendel de Joode from the required counseling sessions with physicians in late 1993 through his birthday night, March 4, when he died by lethal injections administered by his personal physician Dr. Wilfred van Oijen. 
The disease had caused Van Wendel de Joode's speech to deteriorate so much that he had to communicate by point­ing at an alphabet board on his lap. 
"Let's not put this off," were his last words to the doctor. 
The final frames showed Van Wendel de Joode dying with his wife Anthoinette standing by. 
Anthoinette rested her head wearily on the physician's arm as he injected a sleeping drug into her husband's left arm. 
"So peaceful ... He looked so relaxed," said Anthoinette, as she watched her husband slowly loose conscience after the first injection. 
After caressing her hus­band's arm and kissing him on the cheeks, Anthoinette began to weep while nervously puff­ing on a cigarette held in her shaking hand. 
"We've done everything to­gether, only I can't go with him now ... It's finally over. It's fin­ished," she said as the doctor pronounced her husband dead. 
"It's so beautiful like this ... He didn't feel anything. That's the way it should be," she said. 
While mercy killing is still of­ficially illegal in the country, doctors are guaranteed immu­nity from 'prosecution if they follow the euthanasia policy, the most liberal in the industrialized world, and report all cases to authorities. 
That policy requires that physicians performing the practice have a longstanding clinical relationship with the patient who must suffer from irremediable pain and must re­peatedly and lucidly ask for death. 
The program drew angry re­actions in advance from anti­euthanasia physicians. 
"I think it's horrible that this (euthanasia) is being brought into the family living room so that everyone can see," said Dr. Karel Gunning of the anti­euthanasia Dutch Doctors' Union. 

The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 21, 1994 

"Check out those handsome gentlemen, ladies!" 
The Glee Club gathered for its annual fall concert. 
The Observer/Staff Photographer 

Women leave on extended mission 
By JOE TAYLOR 
Associated Press 
NORFOLK, Va. 
With friends and relatives watching from a distance be­cause of a bomb threat, the air­craft carrier Eisenhower set sail on a six-month sea tour Thursday, becoming the first 
U.S. warship to carry women on an extended mission. 
Lt. Cmdr. Janice M. Hamby, one of almost 400 women among the carrier's 5,500 per­sonnel, said she feels much safer on an aircraft carrier than on the lightly armed sup­port ships to which women were relegated in the past. 
"The big difference for us is that we can defend ourselves," Hamby said. "I can go to the 

Study 
continued from page 1 
that university was more pro­fessionally oriented. 
"Most undergraduates at Georgetown are likely to go on to professional school," he said. 
Conducted by Oklahoma State University doctoral student 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $4995, now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on NO football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for alllrish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 

(219)634~1740 
Featuring: Hickory Smoked Ribs 
~'Rihshadu 
Hickory Smoked Chicken
II St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet
fj~ B Granger, Indiana Fried Chicken Tender Seafood 

277-3143 
Grilled Steaks Deliciously Thick Pizza 
FAMILY STYLE SPECIAL 
All you can eat Ribs and Chicken Dinner $6.99 for groups of 10 or more PERFECT FOR SECTION DINNERS! 
Located on State Rd. 23 and Bittersweet 
...

L------------------'T.:-:.":":.. .~....:-:..'%":-~.~~-"!"'L~••"!"!.~-~-~••~>-· 
Persian Gulf and feel a lot safer than someone on a repair ship or a resupply ship." 
The Eisenhower and its sup­port ships are carrying more than 12,000 sailors and Marines to relieve the carrier USS George Washington and its battle group off the Arabian peninsula, where it was sent in response to the Iraqi troop buildup. 
Despite a telephoned bomb threat an hour before its depar­ture, the USS Eisenhower pulled away from the Norfolk Naval Base on time after a search by the crew, bomb ex­perts and dogs found no bomb. The threat forced authorities to evacuate a pier where about 500 family members waited to bid farewell. 
"Some people will do any­thing to slow it down if they can," said Stephanie Corvin of Chesapeake, whose husband, Darrel, is a machinist mate aboard the nuclear-powered ship. 
Cmdr. Kevin Wensing, a spokesman for the Navy's At­lantic Fleet air force, said the caller said only that there was a bomb aboard the ship. "There was no indication of what the person's motive could have been," he said. 
In March, the Eisenhower became the first U.S. combat ship to take women as crew members. 
Last month, about 300 women went on a trip of about 10 days to Haiti to deliver members of the Army's 10th Mountain Division. 
Women have served on non­combat vessels since the Carter administration. 

Edna Bautista, the study was published in the Fall 1994 issue of the Delta Epsilon Sigma Journal, a national scholastic honor society serving the Catholic cultural and intellectu­al tradition. 
According to this journal, the methodology of the study in­cluded an identification of the gender type of each university, its year of establishment, geo­graphic location, and founding orders. 


YOUR FEAST INCLUDES: 
• 
Our luscious new Bruschetta appetizer. 

• 
Garden-fresh salad or soup. 

• 
Fresh-baked breadsticks. 

• 
Choice of one of five entrees. 


Hurry! Limited time only! 
Mishawaka, 6410 Grape Rd., opposite University Park Mall, 277-6503 
,,':-.~-~~~-.o::oo:.-~-~~----............--........................______J 


----~----------~~---------~-------~-------­
Friday, October 21, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Aristide's government wants market access 
By CHARLES J. HANLEY 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

Jean-Bertrand Aristide's gov­ernment, restored under pro­tection of U.S. arms, is seeking another helping hand from the Americans: free access to the 
U.S. market to help rebuild the Haitian economy. 
American officials were sur­prised by the proposal, a source close to Aristide said. But the U.S. Embassy said Thursday it would be consid­ered. 
While looking for new U.S. assistance on one hand, the restored government gave its people some relief on the other, lowering the official price of gasoline to $3 a gallon from $3.80. 
In a sign of returning nor­malcy, a traffic jam developed around a downtown service station after a tanker truck de­livered the first legally avail­able gas for distribution. Gas had been embargoed under international sanctions lifted last weekend. 
The wheels of Haitian justice also appeared to be slowly turning again. 
About two dozen alleged loot­ers were brought to court Thursday by Haitian police, backed by U.S. troops -the biggest display yet of a functioning justice system. 
The suspects were held in connection with the plundering and burning of an appliance store Sunday night in Port-au­Prince. 
The U.S. military has tried to encourage Haitian police to re­sume patrolling and crime­fighting, even in the face of widespread hostility for their oppressive role in the old mill-
A F N1t a Fran~hise! 
amz y Owne Business 


257-1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery 
Call 272-2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 
SOUTH BEND RECORD&CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 23nt 
10:00 AM-5:00 PM ADMISSION $3.00 AT: THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 
515DIXIEWAYN. 
US 31 -33 NOR1H 
FREE Admission with this ad!! 
BUY. SELL. TRADE 



tary regime. 
At the National Palace, Aris­tide consulted with allies and opposition parties alike on the makeup of a revamped gov­ernment, expected to be an­
. nounced shortly. 
Claudette Werleigh, who has been Aristide's foreign minis­ter, is the frontrunner to be prime minister in the new Cab­inet, a source close to the gov­ernment said. She would re­place interim Prime Minister Robert Malva!. 
The extensive consultations are new for Aristide. During his seven-month tenure as presi­dent in 1991, before being ousted by the military, he an­tagonized many Haitian politi­cians by confining appoint­ments to his own close-knit group of supporters, many of them inexperienced. 
Werleigh, 48, was social af­fairs minister during a brief civilian caretaker' government that preceded Aristide's admin­istration. 
The proposal for U.S. trade preferences for Haiti is includ­ed in Aristide's plan for emer­gency economic recovery. 
Now that Aristide has been restored to power, Haiti will al­ready enjoy the same lower 
U.S. tariffs as most Caribbean nations under the decade-old Caribbean Basin Initiative. 
But Haiti needs more, Aris­tide's advisers argued, to jump­start the export sector of an economy that nearly ground to a halt under the three-year military regime and stifling embargoes. 
The Aristide government is proposing that U.S. tariffs be totally lifted on all imports from Haiti and that import quotas in such areas as garments be eliminated for 10 years. 
Main & Jefferson 
Hours 
Mon-Sat 11:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m.
Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 

Chile's economy grows 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
News Writer 
The relationships between stability, growth, and equity in nations can best be illustrated by analyzing the case of Chile, according to Nicolas Flano, the executive director of the World Bank, who spoke Thursday at the Hesburgh Center of Inter­national Studies. 
He explained, in his lecture titled "Development, Growth, and Equity from Authoritarian­ism to Democracy: the Case of Chile 1973-1994," that Chile has moved from an authoritar­ian government to a democracy in the last thirty years, yet it has experienced a continual growth in its economy. 
The past thirty years can be characterized by three periods ofrule. From 1964-1973, Chile was ruled by two consecutive democratic governments, those of Eduardo Frei and Salvador Allende. In 1973, a military coup occurred, and an authori­tarian government was estab­lished headed by General Pin­chot. 
This military-authoritarian regime ruled for sixteen years 
Media hinders jury selection 
By LINDA DEUTSCH Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Overwhelmed by publicity so wide-ranging he's gotten news clippings from Tibet, O.J. Simp­son's judge barred the media Thursday from part of jury se­lection. 
Superior Court Judge Lance Ito closed the part of voir dire in which prospective jurors are asked whether they can still be impartial despite intensive cov­erage of the case. 
Reporters will be allowed back in the courtroom Wednesday when prospective jurors are quizzed about other matters. 
Ito's ruling drew protests from First Amendment experts, many of whom initially thought he was barring the media from the remainder of jury selection. 
The judge sent a court spokeswoman to tell reporters he was misinterpreted and planned to ban reporters only from that part of jury selection in which prospective jurors are questioned about their expo­sure to media coverage of the case. 
Media attorney Kelli Sager said she will file an appeal Fri­day on behalf of The Associated Press, the Los Angeles Times, 
FOR... 

WEEKENDS/HOLIDAYS BIRTHDAYSIWEDDINGS &HOME COOKIN'! 
Bod< etr1y for the holidays and SiNe! Call today for current lavv fares and{N{jjfabk dates. 
Council Travel 
1153 North Dearbom Chicago, JL 6061 0 
311•951•0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 
and was followed by another period of democracy under Aylwin. 
"It can be concluded that the Chilean society was character­ized by the attempt of three dif­ferent governments to change the country's political and eco­nomic structures based on their own ideological viewpoints," said Flano. 
The final transition to democ­racy has been successful due to the leadership of the govern­ment, but several other factors have contributed, including a cooperation between the public and private sections, a bal­anced budget, social peace, and the efforts of the government to improve societal conditions. 
The efforts of the democratic government created the three conditions necessary for an im­proved political and economic situation -stability, growth , and equity. 
This has come to be known as the successful Chilean Eco­nomic Model. 
"This model can be characterized by an open mar­ket economy, an export orient­ed market, the existence of the private sector as allocation 
Gannett Co. Inc., Copley News­papers and ABC News. She said closing the proceedings violates the First Amendment. 
The motion to close jury selection was made by both the defense and the prosecution at the urging of the judge, who has long expressed frustration about the amount and nature of the coverage. 
After the ruling, 18 prospec­tive jurors were questioned in private, and five were dis­missed, including a woman who said she watched Geraldo Rivera's talk show and thought, from listening to the Nicole Brown Simpson's 911 tape, that somebody was being hurt. 
Also dismissed were a city worker whose brother is a po­lice officer, a Customs Service intelligence analyst who said she had never seen a law en­forcement officer make a mis­take, a health administrator who said Simpson's slow-speed chase "suggests guiltness," and a bank worker who said she wouldn't be paid while on jury duty, according to their detailed questionnaires. 
Defense attorney Johnnie Cochran Jr. said after the closed session that prospects were asked about the book, "Nicole Brown Simpson: The Private Diary of a Life Inter­rupted," and other "hot-button issues ... that might impact upon their ability to be fair and impartial." 
"There have been some that have some knowledge of the book," Cochran said. 
American Civil Liberties Union attorney Douglas Mirell said many legal scholars con­sider jury selection the most important part of a trial. 
Loyola University law Profes­sor Laurie Levenson said Ito's ruling was confusing. 
"Typically, sequestered ques­tioning involves questions that could embarrass or hurt poten­tial jurors, questions such as whether they were victims of domestic violence," she said. "This doesn't fall within that area." 
And, she said, there are "pretty strong arguments" the public should know whether ju­rors have been affected by me­dia coverage. 
Late Thursday, Ito released a written order outlining his rul­
agent, and the fact that the role of the state is defined in social sectors," according to Flano. 
While Chile has been success­ful in many sectors, it still faces several challenges for the fu­ture, including poverty, uneven income distribution, a need for more capital investment and a lack of infrastructure which is needed to sustain the growth rate. 
"To overcome these prob­lems, Chile must not only at­tempt to sustain its economic growth but must also work to improve aid to the social sec­tor," Flano said. 
The World Bank has been helpful in structuring the econ­omy of Chile and, according to Flano, it supports the view that "adjustment is necessary and reforms are necessary. At the same time though you should have programs in place to ele­vate the bearing of these costs." 
The World Bank has also as­sisted in the establishment of precisely these programs. 
Flano has been the executive director of the World Bank since 1990 and is the author of several publications on the Chilean economy. 
ing and denying a media re­quest for transcripts of the closed questioning. 
"This is a situation where this case has received national and international attention.... The obvious compelling interest is the cross-pollination of prospective jurors," Ito said. 
In 1984, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed a judge's deci­sion to close jury selection in a rape murder case. The local paper, The (Riverside) Press­Enterprise, challenged the de­cision. 
But Ito said the 1984 case "was not the subject of the talk show circuit, was not the sub­ject of 'Good Morning America' type shows or jokes on the Jay Leno show, was not a topic of conversation everywhere you go." 
He noted publicity was so widespread he had recently re­ceived photos of Simpson news broadcasts in Tibet. "I find it amazing the people in Tibet would be interested in this case," Ito said. 
Ito has been particularly con­cerned about the new book, saying it threatens Simpson's right to a fair trial. 
His ruling came just a day af­ter two media organizations turned down his request to postpone plans to interview the co-author of the book, Faye Resnick. Ms. Resnick, a friend of Ms. Simpson's, alleges that Simpson stalked his ex-wife and threatened to kill her. 
CBS broadcast a Connie Chung interview with Resnick Thursday evening. 
Earlier this week, jury selec­tion was halted for two days because of the book's release, and Ito planned to question prospective jurors in-depth about it. 
Simpson is charged with murder in the June 12 knife killings of Ms. Simpson and her friend Ronald Goldman. Open­ing statements aren't expected until November at the earliest. 
In the Press-Enterprise case, the Supreme Court held unan­imously that trial judges must permit the press to attend jury selection except in rare in­stances where "closure is es­sential to preserve higher val­ues" and there is no less re­strictive alternative available. 
~---~__:__--_------=-----_----_----=----~ --_--___--­
------_----­
VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Friday, October 21, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 


NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ...................•............ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor .............•.......... SU2al1ne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... RyanMaylayrer Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .:............................. Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan ControUer ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to aU readers. The free expression of varying opinions through let!ers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• BEYOND fREEDOM ROCK 
Humorous stunts have always risen above issues 
About a decade ago, I let a Colorado would bring the Rolling Stones to cam­College student read the manuscript of a pus for a concert. That was their whole novel I was working on, about college platform: That they would skip all the life in the Sixties. student government claptrap and just 
She enjoyed it, she reported. And, sto-produce this incredible, improbable ryline aside, it had really opened her· -._major concert at Notre Dame. It was 

eyes to something, she added. 
''I'd always kind of had the impression that you guys were totally obsessed with the war, you know?" she said. "And then I read this, and it occurred to me that, well, of course, you were just as concerned with who was sleeping with who and who was fighting with their parents and who was about to flunk out, and all that mundane kind of college stuff. It was so obvious: Of course you had regular lives going on at the same time. I'd just never thought of it that way." 

Pete Peterson 
It was, she realized, pretty easy to grow your hair long and carry a guitar across your shoulder. It didn't mean you intended to dedicate your entire life to the cause of pacifism, any more than putting a solar energy bumper sticker on your car 15 years later meant you weren't going to put gas in it. And yet it wasn't hypocritical either. It's just that believing in something doesn't require total, 24-hour obsessive dedication. 
Of course we were interested in other things. We took the time to be egocen­tric, to be irresponsible and to be selfish, because those things matter, too. And­death and destruction on the other side of the globe notwithstanding-we were even occasionally silly. 
For example, we once had a couple of guys run for Student Body President and Vice President on the promise that they ridiculous and silly and fun, and some students even carried the joke to an extreme by voting for this asinine plat­form. 
Not enough that they even came close to getting elected, of course. We may have been silly, but we weren't a bunch of total idiots. 
But, still, not every event was earth­shattering back then, and we tried to deal with the hassles of everyday life with a touch of humor whenever possi­ble. 
For instance, Flanner Hall was the site of a dedication ceremony 25 years ago, on November 2, 1969. The two new dorms were finished, and everything had gone perfectly. Well, with a few minor exceptions. 
Like the Grace and Flanner corner­stones being abducted shortly before the ceremony. According to a note sent to
the administration, they were being held L,.. ,;_ __, 
by some of those politically radical stu­dent revolutionaries you may have heard of, and there was a list of four demands. None of them had anything to do with Vietnam. They were: Better food in the dining halls, an improved laundry system, lower prices in the Bookstore and a rebate for Grace residents. 
Well, as you can plainly tell, the first three demands were met at once, which is why students today have superb food, an incredible laundry service and a Bookstore in which prices are set with the student budget in mind. And that may tell you what happened to the idea of giving Grace residents a rebate. 
·In fact, the Grace students had a pret­ty good gripe. About two weeks before school started, those scheduled to live in Tower C were notified that they would­n't actually be moving right into the new dorm after all .•Some 80 freshmen and a number of upperclassmen found them­selves living in the lounges of various residence halls around campus, while the WSND studios stayed put in the tower of O'Shag. 
Residents of floors 2 through 6, the administration promised, would be in their rooms by October 1, with the rest scheduled to move in by the 18th, and the estimates were only ofT by about a week. Even so, moving into a partially finished dorm meant taking the stairs because the elevators weren't running yet and having to fmd a bathroom on a floor where the plumbing had been hooked up. Not to mention living in a room where not all of the furniture had arrived. 
So the students of Grace Hall had a pretty good argument in favor of getting some of their money back. But the food didn't really get any better for a long time, the laundry stayed pretty much the same, the Bookstore prices continued to rise and the Grace students didn't get any rebates. I never heard what hap­pened to the cornerstones, except that the administration didn't seem too con­cerned about recovering them. 
On the other hand, they obviously filled in the holes at the corners of Flanner and Grace with something. Maybe they made a secret deal with the cornerstone-nappers. 
Maybe they promised them that, if they ever decided to boot everybody out of a dorm to turn it into office space, they wouldn't pick on Grace. 
After all, even a university administra­tion can have a wacky sense of humor, right? 
Peterson, '71, is Readership Services Manager at the Press-Republican in Plattsburgh, NY. 
• DOONESBURY 
PilLAR fOUR: CARJN6. 7HI~ 15 WH&R& ITAU COM$ 7lJ'3Ei7HI3<. CARING 15 WHATHot/JE FAMI­U/3S ANI?CCMMUN/7/C:S TO­
G&TH/3R. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
I KNOW I HAVeN'TCAU&IJ YOU IN A FI3W Y~, /JUT
I JUSTWANTW YOU ANO OAf? TO KNOW 7HAT YW PJ&R& IN MY7HOU6ff7S.
.------­

511&'9 IT'50KAY f3WIIj-YOU9iOWW IN6M& Y(}(J CAR&/?. OfF \ 
I 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''Itis a naive domestic Burgundy without any breeding, but I think you'll be amused by its presumption." 
-James Thurber 

,--------------------­
Friday, October 21, 1994 page?
VIEWPOINT 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Would you write those things about your mother? 
Dear Editor: an's spine. And while the resi­
To not protest the hall notes of dents of Alumni and Carroll feel Alumni and Carroll after their that this is a hall issue, which content was made public would has already been dealt with as imply acceptance of the sicken­such, the fact is that these views ing material they contained. I became public to the University transferred to Notre Dame be­and now it is everyone's issue! cause I wanted to attend the Even if appropriate action has Catholic University, a University already been taken, we must where I could live and work examine how such attitudes among my peers. could be allowed to openly exist 
Any member of Alumni or at Notre Dame. Carroll that truly believes this This is the University of Notre material is only representative of Dame, the University of Our the views of one individual and Lady. The next time one of those blindly accepts what was printed guys wants to write such mate­as humor is kidding himself. rial or voice such opinions, he The views presented were not should ask himself if he would only offensive to women, but say those things to his female should have been offensive to friends, to his mother, to Our anyone that possesses an ounce Lady? Does doing so make him of compassion. Were the writers a man? Hopefully, people like of this material so proud of their Roseann Ybarra will never have work that they included their to experience something like this names on it? at Notre Dame again, and the 
While Shafu Ladha might try persons responsible for this ma­and defend such material as terial will indeed "learn the true humor, people must recognize definition of "a woman." this material for what is-sexist garbage that does not belong at MATT LOUGHRAN this University. Humor does not Sophomore send chills up and down a worn-Offcampus 
Intolerance abounds 
Dear Editor: 
The reading of Alumni and Carroll "hall notes" during the Women's Speak Out should not be seen as a mere indictment of the respective halls but rather as an indication of the normative stereotypes of women on campus. The examination of these notes should serve as a scathing indictment of those who wrote them, those who spread defamation of women, those who are simply amused by these assaults, those who either read the "notes" or the initial Observer article without comprehension of its implications, and especially those who choose (as Shafu recommends) to "ignore"-to tolerate­these attacks. 
Tolerance is a readiness to allow others to believe or act as they 
choose. As a "tolerant" individual, you allow others to determine 
your own opinion. Tolerance of such violence against women pro­
mulgates it. 
FAYEKOLLY 
Junior 
HANNAH DUNN 
Senior 
Lyons Hall 

SMC not parasitic, nor to blame 
Dear Editor: sation that "Notre Dame continuously gives to 
We find it extremely unfortunate that M.S. Saint Mary's only to be shunned and neglected" Sebastian Brown, in his letter on Monday, demonstrates that Brown does not know the October 17, 1994, changed the scope of the joint history of our institutions. It is time to Maya Angelou visit from an issue about tickets stop blaming each other for circumstances that into an attack on the students of Saint Mary's. are beyond our control. This issue is not about past relations with the Directing blatant insults at the women of men or women of Notre Dame. The Saint Saint Mary's is not an effective or rational Mary's College Office of Multicultural Affairs means of presenting your point. It can only arranged Maya Angelou's visit to Saint Mary's; work to damage relations between two fine they had the responsibility of distributing tick­institutions with a long and wonderful history ets. We believe that the disgruntled feelings of of cooperation. We encourage the students of Notre Dame students should be expressed to Notre Dame to air their grievances to the Office this office, who actually was in control of the of Multicultural Affairs, who actually can do event. something about the situation. 
Because of this, we feel that the personal attack upon the women of Saint Mary's was JENNIFER MOORE entirely unnecessary and truly unkind coming CHERYL GILLILAND from our brother (and sister) institution. To ELAINE LICATA call Saint Mary's women "parasites" and to LINDA COLEIANNE insinuate that we are not here due to our MARIA VOGEL "intelligence, ability, and effort" shows that KRISTA HANSEN Brown has little if any experience with the Juniors Saint Mary's academic community. His accu-LeMans Hall 
Christian ideals absent 
Dear Editor: the men and women of both the Center for the Homeless, 
Has anyone else noticed the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's or simply say a prayer that amazing tendency toward to be open to possible friend­your heart can be more fully "labeling" that exists on this ships in every situation. opened to all of God's people. campus? Here at Notre Dame, There are lovable people on The more you know about I have heard homeless people both campuses. Through con­others, the less inclined you referred to as "lazy" or "dan­versation with a friend of will be to stereotype them in gerous." I have read degrad­mine, a Notre Dame fresh­the future. ing comments about women in man, I've learned that she has I am not naive. I know we my own school newspaper. I already stereotyped the can't all be friends. This does have helped a friend deal with women of Saint Mary's as the not mean we must be enemies harassment for being a "liber­"enemy." This is really with those who are not our al," and I have seen my unfortuniJ.te, since I know that friends. I believe that the friends at Saint Mary's there are people at Saint extent to which we strive referred to as "parasitic." Mary's who think and act in toward the goal of mutual Sounds really Christian to me. much the same way that she respect for all human beings is 
I would like to make a few does, people that would prob­the extent to which we all will suggestions to the Notre ably be good friends for her to grow into more complete and Dame/Saint Mary's community have. good persons. if I may. First, I challenge you Third, I challenge you to It is not too late to change all to look at other people as broaden your global outlook in the way you live or view the human beings. No more some manner. Try to under­world. All it takes is a little rich/poor, conservative/liberal, stand that not everyone is a effort on your part. man/woman, Notre white Catholic conservative Dame/Saint Mary's distinc­who has had every opportuni­PETER RUBINAS tions. We are all equal. ty that you have had. Sign up Sophomore 
Second, I would encourage for Urban Plunge, volunteer at Morrissey Hall 
• 01.m lAND 
University's self-interested stance on gays just 
The recent attempts of the ho­mosexual movement on campus to gain official recognition by the University of Notre Dame amount to an insidious assault on Catholicism and the University's right to uphold and pre­serve Catholicism in the manner the University sees fit. The conflict under consideration involves the collision between the sphere of privacy of homo­sexuals and the sphere of privacy of the University. 
A primary tenet of any democratic state involves maximizing individual lib­erty. The power to control one's life is an important privilege of being an American. Obviously, however, there are some areas where an individual's sphere of privacy infringes upon the social good; it is often legislative bodies who deal with such infringements. An individual's right to drive 100 miles per hour in a residential zone is weighed against the community's right to reason­ably safe streets, and, as it turns out, the legislative bodies in America have large­ly ruled on the side of the communities. Such declarations affirm the prerogative of the social good to regulate individual liberty, or, in other words, to define the boundaries of an individual's sphere of privacy. 
Perhaps there is nothing more unique­ly American than the strong link between an individual's sphere of priva­cy and an individual's property. With the intrusion of local and federal gov­ernments , a person's right to control the activity that occurs on his or her property has been somewhat compro­mised. Since the founding of our nation, the ability to own property has been fundamental to the definition of America. One cannot effectively own property if one cannot regulate proper­ty; thus, the segment of our society where an individual is free to do as he or she pleases was traditionally and really still is preserved for one's proper­ty. 
Therefore, nowhere is an individual's sphere of privacy more distinct than on 
Brian Fitzpatrick 
an individual's private property. When individual spheres of privacy conflict, it is largely the question of property that settles disputes over which sphere of privacy is dominant. For example, just because an individual has a right to smoke cigarettes, does not mean that an individual has a right to walk into your house and smoke cigarettes. The owner of the house has every prerogative to define allowable conduct in his or her house. 
As for the University of Notre Dame, homosexual students here have no right to expect the University to recognize their organizations or fund and provide facilities for their events. Presumably, when homosexuals decide to attend Notre Dame, they are aware that it is a Catholic University and that the University undertakes fairly extensive measures to preserve and promote Catholicism on campus. Because this is University property, the University has every right to refuse to promote homo­sexuality by denying both recognition and resources. Promoting the ho­mosexual lifestyle is firmly against Catholic doctrine; obviously, then, the University is well within its sphere of privacy to deny the promotion of what it considers immoral conduct. 
Spheres of privacy, even under the protection of private property, are by no means without compromise. Federal and local laws often limit an owner's power over his or her property. The extent to which the government actually presides over private property is fairly ambiguous, however. For example, if you wish to sell your home, can the gov­ernment force you to sell to a black per­son? Often the government must attach financial incentives to policies so that individuals voluntarily relinquish some control over their property; in effect, the government bribes people to allow the government to tell them what to do, such is the case with many affirmative action measures. This, however, does not help the homosexual cause, for Congress has yet to amend the civil rights laws in this country and extend to them protected minority status. 
Often, the only cases where the gov­ernment can definitely regulate private property involve "necessities of life. " Shelter, food, employment, and educa­tion qualify as entities that are so impor­tant that no property owner can deny an individual access to them. Unfortunately for the homosexual move­ment, however, a support group funded with University money does not qualify as a "necessity oflife." 
When we choose to attend Notre Dame, we make a decision, a presum­ably educated decision. Those who are uncomfortable with the Catholic charac­ter of this University may be best served somewhere else. Repeated assaults on Notre Dame's attempt to preserve Catholicism is unjustified at best and anti-Catholic at worst. Sexual prefer­ence is a freedom and, as with any other freedom, there exists responsibility and potential abuse. It is irresponsible for some homosexuals to insist that a Catholic institution fund the promotion of a lifestyle that Catholicism considers immoral. It is, in effect, an abuse of the freedom of sexual preference to demand private resources for self-serving ends. 
The freedom of association applies universally: we can all choose with whom to interact. That does not imply, however, that the University of Notre Dame has an obligation to provide finan­cial resources and facilities for our asso­ciations. Homosexuals have the free­dom to congregate and they should respect the fact that the University has the freedom to not pay for their congre­gations. Preserving the right of the University to exert control over its prop­erty is as fundamental as preserving democracy itself. 
Fitzpatrick is a junior Chemical Engineering major. He lives in Planner Hall. 
ACCENT
page 8 Friday, October 21, 1994 
ComPuter music will kick off haunting evening at Washin!!ton Hall on Halloween 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Accent Writer 
It can set the mood for the evening or help one relax after a tough week of midterms. From colonial anthems to the Negro spirituals to today's alternative sounds, music has provided entertainment and solace for people around the world. Everybody enjoys listen­ing to music. 
In an era in which computers separate humans more and more from the past, music and technology instead have come together to produce a positive output called, naturally, com­puter music. 
Computer music is growing rapidly in popularity and gain­ing world-wide recognition. 
Within the last month, the World Conference of Computer Music was held in Copenhagen, Denmark, and attended by the most prominent figures in this field. Now this blend of technol­ogy and the arts is coming to Notre Dame. 
At 8p.m. on Monday, October 31, a Concert of Computer Music will be held in Washington Hall. 
Associate Professor of Music, Paul Johnson is the local coor­dinator responsible for bringing this concert to the students of Notre Dame. 
"Computer music is a very hot topic right now. Virtually every­one has heard computer per­formance of music on popular radio, and everyone is comput­er literate." said Johnson. He also said that this concert will appeal to a lot of "students, tech types, rock bands, and stu­dents with synthesizers." Basically, there is something for everyone. 

The music that will be per­formed at the concert has been selected from the recent World Conference and represents the most advanced musical use of the computer to date. 
Paul Lansky, a professor at Princeton University will be on hand to present each composi­tion, some of which are his own. 

Johnson explained, "The music that will be played at the concert will be very new, and sometimes difficult to under­stand. 
Paul Lansky is one of the best known composers of computer music in the world, and he is going to introduce each piece, giving a guide to how you might listen from someone who is really on the inside of the sub­ject." 
While many people believe that computer music is actually written by the computer, this notion is not entirely true. 
Some compositions are entirely the work of a machine, but most composers use the computer as an aide to control synthesizers or model sound in numbers before generating the sound itself. 
Lansky uses a NEXT comput­er for several performance tasks such a!) creating sounds, imitating speech, and creating the rhythm and pitches of his music. 
One of his recent works, "notJustmoreidlechatter," is a computerized version of rap that employs these services. 
"One of Lansky's great at­tributes as a composer is to be able to imagine new sound worlds for music," continued Johnson, "and I imagine that this concert will introduce some sounds that literally have never been heard by humans simply because no one had thought how to create them. 
The computer provided that capability. " He also said that this would be a great concert to attend for those who are not too familiar with computer music. 
Lansky will provide enthusi­astic and amusing guidance through the newest efforts from composers from all over the world. 
The Concert of Computer Music will introduce one of the newest technological fads to the Notre Dame community. 
It will be a presentation of new sounds conjured from the mysterious interior of both man and machine. And with the date of the concert also being Halloween, it sounds like a per­fect match. 

Notre Dame Players tell spooky tales 
By LARRY WARD 
Accent Writer 
Almost everyone on campus has heard the many stories that Washington Hall is haunted by numerous ghosts. 
Supposedly, Notre Dame foot­ball legend George Gipp, the Gipper himself haunts the the­ater from time to time. 
Gipp died at the age of 25, two weeks after he was select­ed as Notre Dame's first All­American. 
Reportedly, his dying wish was a request of Knute Rockne, "when the team is up against it, when things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys-tell them to go in there with all they've got and win just one for the Gipper." 
To this day, The Gipper is said to "haunt" Washington Hall. 
Whether or not the stories of these hauntings are true, it seems inevitable that each year, on Halloween night, many Domers try to break into Washington Hall in order to try to spot an apparition. 
Are you looking for some­thing exciting and scary to do on Halloween night that does not include breaking and enter­ing? 
If so, plan on heading over to Washington Hall to see the Notre Dame Players put on the Halloween Candlelight Ghost Story Reading. 
This. year in order to prevent the illegal yearly event, October legal event that is sure to prove 31 tradition of breaking into an enjoyable and frightening Washington Hall, the Notre evening. Dame Players have decided to The Players have spent much provide the student body with a time planning the first ever will consist of readings of six or seven "ghost stories" written by authors such as the haunting Edgar Allan Poe and the spine­chilling Stephen King. 

Each of the stories will be read by a member of the troupe. Only candlelight will be provided in order to promote the true haunting spirit of Halloween. 
All students are encouraged by Co-President of the ND Players, Stephen Susco, to attend the reading. 
A nominal admission fee of $1 will be charged in order to cover the cost of advertising for the event. 
Susco also encourages people to come dressed in appropriate attire. 
So, get out the face paint, the Dracula costume, the witch's hat, or any other accessory that will help you create the perfect Halloween costume and get ready to head on over to the Halloween Ghost Story Reading. 
Susco said, "I think the Halloween Ghost Story Reading will be an enjoyable event and I encourage everyone to attend." 
So if you are looking for a way to ring in the second half of the semester, plan on attend­ing the Halloween Ghost Story Reading. Who knows, maybe you'll even see the Gipper? 
"Halloween Candlelight Ghost Story Reading." The event, which begins at llp.m. October 31 and ends at 
12:30 a.m. the following day, 

,
ACCENT
Friday, October 21, 1994 page 9 
Public Library launches series of bone-chillin8 events 
Fun of Terror-ific season never dies 

By PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
You are never too old to celebrate Halloween. That is why the Saint Mary's College Student Activities Board (SAB). Residence Hall Association (RHA), and Dalloway's Coffee House are co­sponsoring "Terrifying Tales and Ghoulish Grub" on Monday Night from 7 
p.m. to 10 p.m at Dalloway's. 
Students may partake of the festivities for only $1. Those festivities include a costume contest, ghost stories, pumpkin carving, and the mysterious Ghostly Grab Bag. 
And since we are rather old for trick­or-treating, we can fill our stomachs with food (instead of pure candy) at Dalloway's. 
Candy corn, caramel apples, hot apple cider, hot chocolate, and other ghoulish grub will be available for the taking. The coffee house will also be open as usual to provide coffee as normal. 
"SAB has been planning this event along with RHA for quite a while," said Marlene Johnson, SAB assistant direc­tor. 
"SAB and RHA members wanted to 
~--~~~~d 
. 1%1-­
Srunt Mary's Colle~ 
NOTRE DAME·INDIANA 
have an event planned for students right after break. Last year, SAB planned the Masquerade Ball around Halloween time. 
This year, since we are here on the actual day of Halloween, we wanted to celebrate," she said. 
One of the featured events of the evening is ghost stories. But these are . not just any ghost stories. 
"RHA and SAB are employing the tal­ent of a husband and wife team who tell their scary stories as a team. 
The couple has been here two or three times to tell their stories in the past few years. Since they've been so successful, we've invited them again," Johnson said. 
One of the places to be is Dalloway's on Monday night. Some Holy Cross Hall students, however, will be staying in their dorms to hand out candy to the children of Saint Mary's professors. 
Holy Cross students who are interest­ed may sign up on the doors near the front desk of the dorm. 
Students should take advantage of the many Halloween activities being offered on both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. Remember, you are never too old to celebrate Halloween. 
By JOEY CRAWFORD 
Accent Writer 
Trick-or-Treat. Has anyone ever won­dered what teachers do over Fall Break? Wondered if there is life in South Bend when Domers head home? Well teach­ers and other South Bend residents cer­tainly know how to play when Domers are away. Especially during Halloween season. 
There will be a series of Halloween events sponsored by the St. Joseph County Public Library of South Bend. Programs for children as well as adults are planned. The events should be both entertaining and educational. 
The series is highlighted by "An Evening with Father Dowling." Mystery \\Titer and Notre Dame professor, Ralph 
M. Mcinerny, will discuss his renowned series of novels, The Father Dowling Mysteries, as well as his other works of literature. 
He will also talk about the "Father Dowling" television series. Dr. Mcinerny has been teaching Philosophy at Notre Dame for 40 years. "I've lived out my life here," he said. 
Mcinerny has written 18 "Father Dowling" novels. His latest one, A Cardinal Offense, features scenes from Notre Dame University. The television company, Viacom, bought the right to use Mcinerny's characters in the TV series which featured William Bosly (Happy Days). 
Mcinerny launched his writing career during the 1960's. He began by submit­ting short stories to magazines. 
Today, he has tallied over 50 novels as well as some "academic, scholarly books." 
The Father Dowling Mysteries is not the only Mystery series Mcinerny has written. 
He has written a total of four series of novels in the mystery genre under a variety of pseudonyms. Remarkably, he has managed to balance his time between writing and teaching. 
"I have figured out how to be both a philosopher and a writer," he explains. Mcinerny has been a major influence to many aspiring novelists on the Notre Dame campus. 
"Every writer has a vision of life, it is unreal to write at any length and not exhibit, at least through the characters, what life is all about," he said. 
At the conclusion of the program. Dr. Mcinerny will present awards to the winners of the library's Mystery Short Story Competition. 

The competition was open to both high school students and adults. Copies of his novels will be available for sale and author signing. 
This free event will be held on Wednesday, October 26 at 7 p.m. in the Main Library Auditorium on the lower level. 
If you miss Dr. Mcinerny at the Public Library, he will be appearing in Michigan City and at Ball State University, or just look for him in your next Philosophy class, Dr. Mcinerny: Corning to a Classroom Near You. 
Three Halloween programs for chil­dren are slated for the week prior to Hallow's Eve. "Halloween Crafts" is a fun-filled hour for children ages 7 and up. The activity is scheduled for Wednesday, October 26, at 4 p.m. ... 
The Francis Branch of the library, 52655 North Ironwood, will host this exciting hour of creating ghastly ghosts and goblins. Reservations for the event can be made in advance by calling 282­4641. 
On Thursday, October 27 at 3:30 p.m., the River Park Branch of the library, 2022 Mishawaka Avenue, will sponsor a children's program on Pumpkin Painting. 
This activity is open to children ages 4 and up. Children are asked to bring their own pumpkins. 
The library will supply paints and assorted refreshments. Space for this event is limited so pick up a free ticket at the River Park checkout desk and join the fun. 
"Spider Webb, Magician and Clown" will conclude the Halloween children's series. Spider Webb will perform on Thursday, October 27 at 6:00 p.m. This event, which will be held in the Western Branch, 611 S. Lombardy, should be a lot of fun for the entire family. 
A women's group is also celebrating the Halloween season by offering the program, "Women, Friendship and Quilting." 
The history of quilting and how quilts brought women together will be the major topics for discussion. Celebrate women and their quilts at the River Park Branch on Thursday, October 27 at 7:00 p.m. 
All of these events are free and pre­registration is not required unless other­wise noted. For further information, please call 282-4649. 
So if you will be in the South Bend area during the Halloween season, come join the library in celebrating this festive season. 
page 10 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, October 21, 1994 
Requiem for a Glee Club her with other lives to live 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers Ia a Bone.(y 9od 
When the Almighty created the paradigmatic Glee Clubber, He created a lad with the soul of a rolling stone. The Clubber is a travellin' man, happiest when he's boarding a bus, heading toward the sunset, restless to see the faraway places with strange-sounding names. Do you hear America singing? That's the Notre Dame Glee Club, filling the night air with the music of Macushlah and Mayourneen and the girls they leave behind them. Comes the dawn, they'll be gone. They just gotta have a honey holding them tight. Like the Navy, they have sweet­hearts in a great many ports. Yet, eventually, Love catches up with them, to slow them down. As their songs say, "A-roving, a-roving/Since roving's been my ru-i-in!I'll go no more a-rov­ing/With you, fair maid!" 
I think that the Glee Club's lifestyle is part of a great tradi­tion. In every generation, the Hit Parade has been filled with place-names recollected in tranquillity and turned into music: Swanee, My Old Kentucky Home, The Red River Valley, New York, New York, That Wonderful Town. Tony Bennett left his heart in San Francisco, Johnny Reb, fallen at Gettysburg, wishes he were way down South in the land of Cotton. Clubbers are sons of the pioneers, singing of the Shenandoah as they crossed the wide Missouri. The great Depression is remembered for its hobo jungles ruled over by kings of the road who dream of the Big Rock Candy Mountain. America is an endless chain of fast-food restaurants and one­night, cheap motels from sea to sador of good will. At age 69, I don't mind being spoiled. The kids teach me lessons in loving and being loved. 


It's the applause that saves them, like Tinker Bell whose light would go out if the chil­dren didn't clap. They stand there, looking proud of them­selves, wearing white ties and tails. But the Glee Club is not like Peter Pan's lost tribe of boys who don't want to grow up. "Another opening, another show is fine as long as they're undergraduates; but in the smell of the greasepaint, the roar of the crowd, they have no 
' I t's the applause that 
saves them, like Tinker Bell whose light would go out if the chil­dren didn't clap ... But the 
Glee Club is not like Peter Pan's lost tribe of bovs who don't want to grow up.' 
lasting city. Do they hear what they're singing in the words of that chantey , "We'll go no more a-roving/So late into the night?" I have no idea, though it sounds to me like an anthem for passing youth. "For the sword outwears its sheath/And the soul wears out the breast,/And the heart must pause to breathe/and love itself have rest./Though the night was made for loving/And the day returns too soon, /yet we'll go no more a-roving/By the light of the moon." · 
The saddest of requiems is in Death of a Salesman. "He's a man way out there in the blue, riding on a smile and a shoeshine. And when they start not smiling back that's an earthquake. And then you get yourself a couple of spots on your hat, and you're fmished ... " 
A Glee Clubber is a salesman without a product to sell except himself. He's out there on a cloud, surviving on a tune and a suit that makes him look like the head waiter up at the Ritz. When his groupies start giving him the finger-then his turn in the spotlight is when he begins to die. When his shirt-front starts turning gray with dust, and his pants get baggy, like Groucho Marx's, he has to put away his illusions, and grow up to the realization that as a Clubber, he isn't nineteen or twenty any more. 
The sad truth of life is that golden lads and girls all must, as chimney sweepers come to dust. If, at reunions, they could see themselves as others see them, they would not imagine that they can go home again to a past that's behind them like a child's lost garden of verses. 
O.J. Simpson, I've read, hated losing the fame that was his as a Heisman Trophy winner. Now, he's more in the limelight than he ever was; but for him, it's all tragedy. Isn't 15 min­utes of fame enough in a life­time? 
I will be with the Glee Club on their trip to the Southwest over semester break. All I pray for is glorious singing, sage travel, and beds that are sleepable at the end of the day. 
This year marks Father Griffin's 25th year of writing wtih The Observer. 
shining sea. Truckstops are the oases to which the rhinestone cowboys, and other itinerants in love with long-distance, come like pilgrims arriving in cathedral towns during the great ages of faith. 
They rest for a while from the wind in their faces, and from the roar of the tires as they eat up the miles. Grease from the cooking burgers reminds them that their inner beast is alive and famished. The nag of a nigh-bursting bladder reminds them of how long it had been since they treated themselves to the mercy of a pit-stop. 
Music from juke boxes and car radios accompanies them like their stock in trade. As itinerants in the heartland, they will have music wherever they go. Much of it is nostalgic, reminding them of a better day. Some of the songs are metaphors for the fields over Jordan, to which they will trav­el at the ends of their days. 
The Glee Clubbers are broth­ers to America singing at the campfires and ramparts, and at the bivouac's blue flame, mem­bers of the Woodstock Nation. As roaming minstrels, they light candles in the faces of their audiences informally gathered for a mini-concert on the mall, of in a marble hall, where champagne is served at the intermission ... 
Life on the Glee Club bus can 
be like an evening in Animal House. That's why students go on tour for three or four years, when they're young enough to think that they're having a good time; which undoubtedly they are. As the chaplain to the Club, traveling like a groupie in their wake for more than a quarter of a century, I've seen first hand that an extended tour can be a killer. The creature noises made by 45 Domers feel­ing uninhibited aboard a Greyhound can be a foretaste of damnation. Exposed to the smell of unwashed clothes and day-old orange peels, with other fragrances that remind me of the unburied dead, I'm apt to be in a state of mind like Cardinal Newman's when he prayed that the time he spent in Holy Ireland might be sub­stracted from his purgatory. Imagine being on a bus in need of flushing for ten or twelve hours and then arriving for a concert in a shabby grade­school gym, where the audience sits on bleachers. The promised free meal turns out to be sloppy Joes with a cup of bug juice served by the Mothers' Club on paper plates. Still, the nobless oblige of the Clubbers would break your heart. As the Club on parade, they didn't come to the boon­docks expecting to be spoiled. I'm the one with his nose out of joint as the University's ambas­
You're tired... You're hungry••. You don't ha"e mucll money••• 


11'8 lime ID call youl' Papal 

Oei/V-e,tirj Tk 5*R'zza/ 
27'1 -'1'177 
If you're here for Fall Break, remember Papa John's is open for lunch! 
Houns: 
Monday-Thursday  11:00am-1:11lam  
FOO!Iy &Saturday  11 :00 a.m. -3:00 a.m.  
Sunday  Noon ­1:00 am  


r -l.unch'PeC!at--, r -7/ifl;Nine-'T!tty--, r -"Late71iu7iisPeci8r -, .r -Onetr-Laroe--, .I 1-10" Small I I 1-16" Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I a$ne Topping I I 2Topping Pizza I I Two Toppings I I 1-14" Large I I I
s950 695 I
I with 1can of Coke II II II II 1Topping Pizza I I Two 14" L~rge
I $ $ I I One Toppmg I 
5
9 59 
I ~ I I ~ I I ~ I I $11 ~~ I 
Mditkmal Toppings $1.25 each Not valid with any other cou~on _ _ _ AIJdiUonal Toppings 95c each. Not valid with any other coupon .J I Mdilional Tuppings 95c each IIDt valid with any other coup0t1 .J
---.._ ______ _ 
----------~-------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~­
.• 

NOTICES 
NEED HELP WRITING? Manuscript preparation by experi­enced editor. Free pick-up and delivery. 293-9170 or FAX 522­4109. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
••••• $50 REWARD ••••• For the RETURN of or information leading to the RETURN of two CO's: Pearl Jam "No F--in' Messiah" and Nirvana "All Acoustically". Please call272­4021. 
Found: Bike-lock key October 12 9:00 pm between Farley and NOH call Eric x1087 
LOST: A black camera last seen at the Linebacker. Please call Laura at X2718-REWARD!I! 
LOST: small blue topaz/diamond 
ring somewhere between C1 lot 
and library. Call Jennifer at 273­
4516 Cash reward if found 
LOST-grey tent was last seen out­side PE. call x4544 
WANTED 
MACRI'S DELl Now hiring most positions. Good starting pay plus benefits and bonus programs. Experience helpful but not necessary. We train. Apply within at either location: 214 Niles Av., S. Bend, 282-1351 or 6502 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 2n-7273. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -Eam up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ment available. No experience nec­essary. For more information call 1­206-634-0468 ext. C55841 
'$'$'$"$"$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$"$"$'$' 
FASCINATING CONVERSATION! Looking for a ride from ND to Milwaukee Thursday night October 27 Please Call Pierre x1184 '$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$' 
Need a ride back from MN alter Oct. break. Will help w/ driving & $. Please calli Meagen X2764 
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK '95! LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE. BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1 ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURS1­800-426-n10 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808 
Wantedllllndividuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING BREAK '95. Earn substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­800-327-6013 
FOR RENT 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­n3-2034 
Rm Available4225/mo, 5-min 
drive 232-7175 or 631-4809 
FOR SALE 
4 Sale GAs 4 all Home Games 
271-2837 
One way tkt to NYC, Cheap Travel anytime before dec. Call277-5316. 
Plane ticket Nov4 $50 
Chi-Hous-San Fran Eric 1087 
TICKETS 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 BEAN OWNER JAMISON INN PARTNERSHIP SELLING A LIMITED #OF MINI-SUITE CONDOMINI­UMS $65,000-70,000 1 )Guaranteed Reservations 2)Six nights free per year 3)Professionally managed 4)Substantial cash return 5)Never go looking for a room for football games again Call Missy Bornheimer-Coldwell Banker Anchor 259-6317,259­7573, 235-3180 24hr voice mail or Jamison Inn 2n-9682 

FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 

I need one Air Force GA or student ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please call X3822. Thanks! 
I NEED NAVY GA'S MARKX1640 
I NEED FSU TIX KEVIN @ X3457 

I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call Kristine at 4-3806. Thank you VERY MUCH! 
NEED 1 STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR AIR FORCE. CALL LOU @233-4008. 
$$$$$Help! I need Air Force GAs. Please call Gina at 2n-0740.$$$$$ 
I NEED NAVY GAs. CALL WENDY @ X4708 
I have two Navy GA's. Need 'em? Call Jen x4281 
It's my dad's 50th Birthday and I want to make his day. You can help me!l Sell me FOUR AIR FORCE GAS Please????!! Thanks. Michelle 284-5512 
Need GA's to Air Force and Navy! Please call 4-1330. 
Desperately Need Navy GA's X1421 

I need GA's for AF and Navy. Please Call634-4574. 
I need 2 AF GA's will pay $50 ea. Jon@ x1151 
Need Navy GA's Andy 289-3736 

10HNO! Parents forget to get NAVY GAs! Help usl Call for Chris or Joe at 4­3670. I have friends coming to see a the AIR FORCE game. Can you help by selling me two STUDENT TIX? Chris4·3670 
Need 2 AIR FORCE GAs Please call Curtis-282-2197 
$$NEEDED$$ AIR FORCE GA'S CALL GARY 2n-9279 

I HAVE NAVY STUD TIX 4 SALE MICHELE 284-5326 
$$$$$ NEED 2-4 GA'S $$$$$ 
$$$FOR NAVY, CALL LA$$$ 
$$$$$$ @ 284-5132 $$$$$$ 
1 NAVY STUD. TICKET 4 SALE. 
X 1403 

I NEED 2 NAVY GA TIX FOR THE PARENTS CALL DAN MANLEY AT 234-6843 
Navy & Air Force GA's for Sale 
235-3394 

Need: GA's and Student Tix 
For Air Force. Will pay Big Bucksl 
Call Liz 273-2179. Thanks! 
NEED AF GA'S OR STUD TIX X3098 
NEED 1 AF & 1 NAVY GA. CALL 
JOSE 1661. 

I NEED 1 NAVY GA BADLY 
MIKE X42210 

HELP!! I need one student ticket for my little sister for Navyll Call John X2213 
2 FSU-NDTIX 25 yard line, upper deck, Third row, seats 19&20. Call Greg, 904-673­8812 Best offer. 
Need 2 Navy GAs 4 rents from CA! ND gave us the shalt! Call Stone 289-9857 
For sale grad stu tickets for Navy & Air Force 25$ each 237-0072 
I need 4 GA's, or 2 GA's and 2 stu (1M&1F), for Navy! Call Bill x2007 and leave message with price. 
NAVY GA's Desperately Needed call Mike at X4622 
PERSONAL 

Juggler needed for SMC Madrigal Dinners. Call 284-4632. 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune Student Center now accepts VISA, MC, and MAC cards for your copying needs. 
Female Grad Students 
Need 1 more roommate-
Oak Hill $300/mo. 273-6153 
Looking for RIDERS to share $ for 
drive to Durham, NC area for Oct 
Break. Will stop along way. Call 
Marc 233-4008 
LW, Only a little more than 8 months left! Here's to sandy Bermudan beaches and white curtains! -PPC 
Loel, I miss you already... 
Meesh-I hope you have a great 21st birthday! I love you always! 
YOU CAN STILL GET INTO THE ACTION II SEINFEST '9411 
NOV.3 

SIGN UP IN THE SUB OFFICE 
UNTIL FRIDAY!I 
LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATIONS are due 5:00PM Friday, Oct. 21 

NEED RIDE TO AND FROM NEW ORLEANS OVER FALL BREAK. WILL HELP WITH GAS/DRIVING 
MATT X3584 

KTHussylll 
Have a great break! I hope FC serves you well over break. You know the code! 
A 

VISIT ORLANDO! Notre Dame/FSU game weekend. ECONO LODGE CENTRAL-1 mile from stadium. $48 +tax (Advance Res. Rate) $3 R.T. Shuttle. Large, clean rooms, pool, HBO, ESPN, Fast Eddie's Bar & Grill800-293-7234. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BRIDGEYII If you see Bridgette Farrell today, wish her a happy day. Better yet, call her. 284-4406 We lerve you Bridge!II 
Poor Michelle isn't going to be here for her birthday. Wish her a happy birthday before she goes home. MICHELLE WENNER'S BIRTHDAY IS OCTOBER 3111 
"I don't make friends, I get results dammit." -Garrett 
Grace Hall Guys, Wish Tom Roland a happy twenti­eth, oh wait, nineteenth birthday! 
So, Chris Waterboy Mullins, You survived the week. Five-to-one odds that your plane goes down in flames. 
Alane Alvarez, do you want to go to Chicago this weekend? 
Bridget, Sheila, Britta, Liz, and all 
the fans: Leave me the hell alone. 
What's up to all the Elmos at 
Central Catholic 
-I 
i 
~-­

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 21, 1994 
• CoLLEGE fmrrsAu.. 

McNair chasing record 
By STEPHEN HAWKINS 
Associated Press 
LORMAN, Miss. 
When Steve "Air" McNair be­comes the NCAA career total offense leader, he will not have fully lived up to his nickname. 
McNair has taken a different route to the record than Ty Detmer, the Heisman Trophy winner he'll replace in the record book. 
Alcorn State's senior quarter­back is just 264 yards shy of breaking the 3-year-old record of 14,665 total yards set by Detmer at Brigham Young. 
"My dream was to play in the NFL. As a kid, I wasn't looking at becoming the NCAA total of­fense leader," McNair said Thursday. "It's something I'm looking forward to now." 
Detmer set the total offense record through the air. McNair could easily surpass the record with a run. 
McNair has 14,402 total yards -12,337 passing and 2,065 rushing. He became the Division 1-AA total offense leader Oct. 1 with a ~2-yard scrambling touchdown run against Mississippi Valley State. 

"Detmer was apure passer. I'm a scrambler as well," McNair said. "I elude the rush and get yards on the ground as well." 
This season, McNair already has four 100-yard rushing games, including three in which he also threw for more than 300 yards. He has thrown for 2,704 yards and 28 touchdowns and rushed for 672 yards and six scores. 
Detmer will keep his career passing record of 15,031 yards. But the minus-366 career yards rushing brought his total offense numbers down. 
Detmer said Thursday that he hasn't had time to think about his total offense record being broken. But he said he has heard about McNair, and seen him on TV. 
"(McNair) is a great athlete. He's the main focus of their team. They just give (McNair) the ball and let him go with it," Detmer said. "He mixes it up pretty good. Most of my rushing yards were minus." 
Even though Alcorn (5-2) is hosting Southern University, the top-ranked defense in Division 1-AA (allowing 190 yards per game), McNair will likely break Detmer's record Saturday. 
"Our offense is basically wide open. If we execute as good as we can, the record will take care of itself," said MeNair. averaging 482.3 total yards per game this season and 379 in his 38-game career. 
McNair is on pace to break the career and season records for total offense per game. 
Former Mississippi Valley State quarterback Willie Totten, who threw most of his passes to Jerry Rice, holds the career mark at 325 yards per game. David Klinger set the sin­gle-season record of 474.6 yards per game at Houston in 1990, the same year Detmer won the Heisman. 
CSU gearing up for Utah 
By JOE WHEElAN 
Associated Press 
FORT COLLINS, Colo. 
Those helmets with the nifty gold rams' horns are suddenly hot, and green and gold are the colors a la mode. 
Hotels are booked. Fans arrive early and stay late at Hughes Stadium. And the traf­fic ... 
What's going on at Ag U? 
For years, Colorado State was the dowdy cousin in Colorado's football pantheon. There were the Broncos and the Colorado Buffs, and Air Force had its service academy aura. 
But Colorado State always seemed to be the kid with the muddy boots and the cowlick. Even though the Aggies became the Rams in 1957 when Colorado Agricultural and Mechanical College became Colorado State, the old nick­name stuck. Maybe it's the big "A" whitewashed on the hill­side above Hughes Stadium. 
It's amazing what a 7-0 record and a No. 12 ranking can do. 
Karla Niedan of the Fort Collins Convention and Visitors Bureau said requests for lodg­ing during home games have picked up sharply. Many callers are alumni who haven't returned in a long time. 
"It's great that the team is winning, but certainly the national exposure is great for all of Fort Collins," she said. 
This weekend, the Rams (5-0 in the Western Athletic Conference) play host to No. 18 Utah (6-0, 3-0), whose 37­points-per-game offense will be a challenge for CSU's frugal defense. 

Hughes Stadium groundskeepers are setting up 3,500 bleachers in back of the end zones. A capacity crowd of 36,000 is expected. 
"This game will be as big for us here as any Orange Bowl game," Colorado State coach Sonny Lubick said. 

The 57-year-old Lubick is well-acquainted with the Orange Bowl. He was defensive coordinator for Miami for four years before becoming the Rams' coach in 1993. He was anxious to return to the West. 
Fort Collins is a distinct change from Miami. Located 65 miles northwest of Denver, Fort Collins is a city of about 100,000 -including 21,000 CSU students -at the base of the Rocky Mountain foothills. 
It was a place Lubick had grown fond of while CSU's offensive coordinator from 1982 to 1984, before going to Stanford as an assistant and then to Miami. Under CSU coach Leon Fuller, Lubick's offenses were the most produc­tive in Rams history. 
When ne -returned to csu last season, signing a five-year con­tract, Lubick faced a daunting task. Coach Earle Bruce had been fired for punching and verbally abusing players, and morale was low. 
But Bruce had built the foun­dation for a good program even though during his last year, in 1992, his team finished 5-7. In four years at CSU, he built a 22-24-1 record and took CSU to its second-ever bowl appear­ance -the 1990 Freedom Bowl, where CSU beat Oregon, 32-31. 

up in the polls
."'~=~·:... :·-: :: 

By RICKWAANER u A lot of people around the Associated Press nation don't hear much about the WAC, but you don't get a break in your schedule when play in this league," said Force coach Fisher 
real;" said "'"fullback 
..¥..:.•.,.,;.,,;;.;·· cat­

-No. 3 vs. the rush, No. the pass, No~ 4 in total and No, 6;in points al~ Colorado State is 16th pass deftnlse . .anq(BYU is th in rush defense. Air is 29th against the run "No this is the best .Land Wyoming is 30th against 
this league has ever been from ' the pass. top to · · said BYU "There are a lot ofteams in coach the conference that are play­
. extremely+ well on d.e:fertse·," said Utah coach Ron ride. "If yo#'re going to , you've got to play good 
?defense." 
McBride and Colorado State oach Sonny Lubick have em~ l'"'"""""'" defense in their re~ 
,.,...,,..,....,,, on liel!ens;e our years ofrecruiting!' nq Colorado Sta ·.· .· .~et~ ~e~ruiting boost. Satur~,~y's A.BC regional. of W:eir game at Fort . 
think getting on national is a real key,'·' Edwards ''Bowl games and TV ... 
help us in area." 


((;ttravelmore 
~ ~Carlson Travel Network 
est thing to hit N filming of "RUDY''; dare I wonder how you were ev out it. So watch for the peaceably and obediently. 

SQ) lrQ)
• 

•• IBIII~Bilr f)llfr~~
•

• JIQ)YBIIBBB IBD 
Brought to you by your friends at the Student Union Board. Aren't we great?! 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares  Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates.  
Low airfares to Europe.  
*Rail Passes  Rail Passes issued in our office!  
No service fee!  
Timetables, prices, tickets available!  
*Car Rentals  Discounted car rentals!  
Available in all European Countries!  
*Experience  Over 20 years experience working with  
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students  
and faculty travelling to Europe.  

We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus­(219) 271-4880 
Friday, October 21, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAlL 
UMass investigates Grgurich offered UNLV job 
By TIM DAHLBERG Weaver during meetings Grgurich as a coach that Jim Associated Press Thursday and talks resumed in Weaver is resigning as athletic
academic records 
By JEFF DONN Associated Press 
AMHERST, Mass. 

The president of the University of Massachusetts said Thursday he will check the records of basketball players in the wake of reports that one­quarter of the team is. in aca­demic trouble. 
"We will take whatever cor­rective measures may be need­ed to ensure the academic integrity of our program," said Michael Hooker, the university president. 
The newspaper reports raised questions over whether the school, in its successful pur­suit of basketball success in recent years, has given short shrift to academics. 
The Boston Globe said four Massachusetts players, includ­ing star sophomore center Marcus Camby. had been put on academic probation when their overall grade-point aver­ages slipped below 2.0, or C. 
It said three others, including senior co-captain Lou Roe, had been given warnings when their averages fell below that mark for a single semester. 
"It's so disappointing," said Hall of Farner Bill Walton, who graduated with a major in his­tory and honors at UCLA. "These student athletes are given every opportunity to make it." 
There are 16 players on the team, which finished last sea­son 27-8 with a No. 8 ranking. It is widely viewed as a possible contender for the NCAA Final Four this season. 
Hooker said the school re­mains "committed to the pri­macy of academics." He said he will meet with school officials in coming days to review last spring's academic records for the team. 
LAS VEGAS. 

UNLV reversed itself Thursday and offered Seattle SuperSonics assistant Tim Grgurich a three-year contract to coach the Runnin' Rebels. 
Grgurich, in Memphis with the NBA team for an exhibition game, was expected to accept the offer and be in Las Vegas by Friday to open practice with the team. 
The offer capped a bizarre string of events that began last Friday when former coach Hollie Massimino agreed to take a $1.8 million buyout to make way for a new coach. 
As late as Thursday morning, UNLV interim president Kenny Guinn had said the university would seek an interim coach for the upcoming season and put off hiring a permanent coach until next year. 
But UNLV's players pressed for Grgurich's hiring with both Guinn and athletic director Jim an effort to bring Grgurich in as the new coach. 
"They made some very valid points about interim coaches versus permanent coaches," Guinn said. 
Coaches of other sports at UNLV also met Thursday and said they wanted Grgurich to be named the permanent coach. 
The announcement of an offer to Grgurich, an assistant to Jerry Tarkanian at UNLV for 12 years, came less than 24 hours after Weaver resigned and Guinn said that Grgurich would not be hired for the upcoming season. 
Guinn said at the time that he would hire an interim coach for the upcoming season because he didn't want to make it ap­pear that Weaver resigned be­cause of a personality conflict that kept Grgurich from accept­ing the job. 
"I cannot let this appear that because I didn't hire Tim director,'' Guinn said Wednesday night. "I can't be a part of it. I won't be a part of it." 
Grgurich had arrived in Las Vegas on Wednesday, and met with players at McCarran International Airport. He later went to the university and met with the players again, when he told them he would be their new coach. 
Grgurich, however, wasn't formally offered the job and left Las Vegas early Thursday tore­join the SuperSonics on the road. 
Earlier Thursday, there were reports that Sonny Allen, a for­mer coach at Old Dominion, Southern Methodist and Nevada-Reno, had been offered the job on an interim basis. 
Charlotte Hornets director of player personnel Dave Twardzik said Thursday that Allen, a scout for the team, was offered the job. 
• NATIONAl. lEAGUE BASEBAll. 
Mondesi voted NL 'Rookie of the Year' 
By BEN WALKER Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Outfielder Raul Mondesi unanimously won the NL rookie of the year award Thursday, the third straight Los Angeles winner of an honor the Dodgers have dominated since its incep­tion. 
The Dodgers have had the top rookie 14 times since Jackie Robinson -for whom the prize is now named -won the initial award in 1947 with Brooklyn. No other NL team has won more than six. 
Mondesi, who batted .306 and led major league outfielders with 16 assists, was the seventh unanimous winner in the NL. Dodgers catcher Mike Piazza was a unanimous winner last year. and Los Angeles first baseman Eric Karros won in a closer vote in 1992. 
"I want to say thank you to my teammates," Mondesi said from his home in the Dominican Republic. "They tell me, 'You've got to play hard because you've got a chance to win rookie of the year.' I played hard every day, that's why I won." 
Rick Sutcliffe, Steve Howe, Fernando Valenzuela and Steve Sax won for Los Angeles from 1979-1982. The Dodgers, the only NL team to win as many as three straight awards, could make it four in a row again next year if Triple-A third base­man Ron Coomer plays to potential. 
"I think that says a lot for our staff and our player develop­ment, a lot for the players in­volved, Raul, who's worked so. hard, Tommy (manager Lasorda) and the major league coaching staff that added the finishing touches. It was a com­bined effort," Dodgers general manager Fred Claire said. 

Mondesi, 23, received all 28 frrst-place votes in balloting by the Baseball Writers Association of America and fin­ished with 140 points. Houston reliever John Hudek was run­ner-up with eight second-place votes and 27 points and Atlanta outfielder Ryan Kleso was third with six second-place votes and 25 points. 
Kansas City designated hitter Bob Ham~lin won the AL rookie award Wednesday. The New York Yankees lead the AL with seven rookie winners. 
The next BBWAA award will be the NL Cy Young winner on Monday. 
Mondesi had 16 home runs, 56 RBis and 11 stolen bases in the season that stopped Aug. 12 because of the players' strike. He also hit 27 doubles and eight triples and scored 63 runs. 
"Everybody knows I put up good numbers," he said. "I've got to take it like that. I don't worry about not playing 162 games." 
Mondesi will start playing winter ball shortly with Escogido of the Dominican Winter League. 
It was Mondesi's strong right arm that often attracted the most attention. He had the most outfield assists for the Dodgers since Willie Davis had 16 in 1964. Kirby Puckett and Kenny Lofton tied for the AL lead this season with 13. 
Mondesi, who made his major league debut last season and played in 42 games, won the starting right field job from 
ONE UNIVERSITY CAN KEEP YOU A STEP 
AHEAD OF THE WORLD.
MBA -INTERNATIONAL MARKETING AND RNANGE (MBAIIMF) 
Intensive 18-Monlh Day Program 

The only MBA in thl! country that integrates contemporary marketing and financial decisioh .. :I!!11 ;:: making within an ihtemational business enviro.nment: Ten weeks of the program is devoted to a global 
business practicumwith one or more multi-national This is why DePaul University has developed two new and unique master's programs 
corporations abroad. (GMATrequired.) devoted entirely to preparing students for success on a global level. Call 3121362-8810. 
MASTER OF ARTS IN INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 18-monlh evening program 

This program features acurriculum in two concentrations: international political economy and global culture. Internship opportunities are available in the U.S. and abroad, including a 4-month internship with the Commission of the European Union in Brussels. Call3121362-5367. 
• 

From NAFTA, to GATI, to the emerging presence of Eastern Europe, the evidence is overwhelming. The world is shrinking. And in every field of expertise, it has become apparent that the leaders for the next century must have new skills and knowledge. 
If you're planning to pursue your education, we encourage you to learn more about 
international programs offered by the one university that remains a step ahead in a rapidly changing world. 
For more information, phone, fax, or mail. 
,---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------., 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
] Mail to: DePaul University Office of Graduate Infonnation,l E. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, lL 60604. Fax (312) 362-5749. ] 
• Used books bought and sold
! 0 MBAIIMF 0 Master of Arts in Inti. Studies ! 
• 25 categories of Books
' 

' . 
'' .' • 25,0CXJ Hardback and
! NAME SSN I
' . Paperback books in stock 
~ SCHOOL ADDRESS HOME ADDRESS j • Out-of-Print Search Service: ' ' 
$200
~ CITY/STATEJZIP CITY/STATEJZIP ~ 
' ' • Appraisals large and smalll SCHOOL PHONE HOME PHONE ND1011 ! Open noon to six
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------J 
Tuesday through Sunday 

1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617
E p A U L u NIVERSITY 
--.~ ·..... -... ~ ·.. . --~ ... "· ... ,(~~ 9).232-8444.
-' 

' 
---~ 
~-­

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 21, 1994 
• PRO fOOTBALl. 

Redskins rally Fuller ready to face Oilers 
By JOHN F. BONFATTl our guy. We may lose Sean No one from the front office Associated Press Jones, we may even lose said anything to him. But Fuller 
around Frerotte 

Warren (Moon), but we want was getting the unmistakable 
By JONATHAN MOORE 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 
The Washington Redskins hope rookie quarterback Gus Frerotte will display preseason form in a midseason game. 
"It creates excitement, with­out a doubt, because he's com­ing out of nowhere," said Redskins wide receiver Henry Ellard. "Something new cre­ates excitement, even though this team is 1-6. We need some kind of excitement to get something going." 
Coach Norv Turner said Frerotte, a seventh-round draft pick out <ri Tulsa, will start against the Indianapolis Colts in place of top pick Heath Shuler, who is out with a sprained ankle. 
The decision came as a suprise because the second­string quarterback, John Friesz, is a veteran who start­ed the first four games of the season and has the team's only win of the year, against New Orleans. 
Turner said Frerotte has played well in practice and the preseason and deserves a 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 
A five-stitch cut marred Drew Bledsoe's chin. A subdued voice and downward glance showed 
Bill Parcells' frustration. 
The road from pushover to playoff contender isn't so smooth after all. Two straight mistake-filled losses hit the two leaders of the New England Patriots as hard as an un­blocked blitzer. 
"I would imagine we're frus­trated to some degree," Parcells said quietly. "I would say that I'm disappointed with the turn of events." 
The Patriots' 3-2 start was their best since 1987. They had just won three consecutive close games, two on the road. Bledsoe had thrown for more yards than anyone in the NFL. 
There was serious talk about reaching their first playoff berth in eight years. And, for the first time in the team's 35­year history. all eight home games were guaranteed sell­outs before the first one was played. 

chance to start. Coaches also want to see if Frerotte's tal­ents hold up under the pres­sure of an NFL game. 
"I think it can provide a little bit of excitement," Turner said of Frerotte starting. "It's not long-lasting, but it certainly makes it interesting." 
Fullback Brian Mitchell said the players could rally around Frerotte. 
"I think everybody's real ex­cited to see how he's going to perform," Mitchell said. "We can remember him performing real well in preseason. He's been doing real good in prac­tice, and everybody just wants to see if he can do it when it's happening for real. 
"I'm sure everybody back in their mind has a feeling that. 'Hey. Gus is going to play just like he's been doing, and if he does that, it's going to be a big lift for us."' 
Turner said Ricky Ervins probably would start at run­ning back against the Colts, although Reggie Brooks, who has been sitting out two weeks with a pulled muscle in his rib cage, is practicing again and says he's ready to go. 
Patriots hope for season to turn over 
Expectations were growing in the Patriots' second season un­der Parcells, who coached the New York Giants to two Super Bowl titles. He took over a 2-14 team and led it to a 5-11 record last year. 
Only 15 players remain from the pre-Parcells days. But the team is plagued by the incon­sistency of youth. 
The Patriots committed four turnovers in each of the losses to the Los Angeles Raiders and New York Jets. 
"I was hopeful in that re­gard," Parcells said when asked if he felt the winning streak would snowball. 
The defense, burned by long passes early in the season, has improved. But the offense has struggled recently, despite Ben Coates emergence as one of the NFL's top tight ends. The run­ning game, the hallmark of Parcells' Giants teams, is aver­aging an NFL-low 2.8 yards per carry. 
Even Bledsoe had a bad day at the Meadowlands. He threw for a season-low 292 yards, was sacked three times and fumbled twice in last Sunday's 24-17 PHILADELPHIA 
After eight years with the Houston Oilers, William Fuller thought his friends in the or­ganization would inform him about the team's plans. He was wrong. 
And so Fuller admits he's anxious to do particularly well for his new team, the Philadelphia Eagles, when they play the Oilers on Monday night. 
The defensive end speaks calmly about it now, but there's still a trace of anger in his voice as he talks about the Oilers' al­lowing him to become a free agent. 
He's not unhappy with the Eagles (4-2), especially when he sees how the Oilers (1-5) have unraveled. 
"I couldn't ask for a smoother transition, both football-wise and off the field," said Fuller. tied for second in the NFL with seven sacks. "It's worked out real good." 
He is upset about the way he feels the Oilers let him hang during the offseason, especially after they told him he was def­initely a part of their future. 
"All of our conversations with management was, 'Hey, you're you here,' " Fuller said. 
It made sense. Even though Fuller is 32, he is among the NFL's top pass-rushers. In the previous four seasons, he aver­aged 10 sacks a season. 
The reassurances 'made Fuller feel good until he started getting signals that made him wonder. 
First, negotiations on a new contract went slowly. The Oilers took their time giving Fuller a proposal and when they did, he was insulted how far under fair market value it was. 
Then Houston designated de­fensive tackle Glenn Montgomery as their transition player. That meant the Oilers could match any free agent of­fer Montgomery might get, in­suring he would stay with the team. 
Fuller was under the impres­sion he would get the protected designation. 
"I can kind of see their ratio­nale," he said. "He (Montgomery) had a great year last year ... and he's a younger player. They were simply look­ing at it that way." 
loss to the Jets. Two blitzers the problems that contributed popped him hard after coming to their 3-4 record, two games through untouched. One solid out of the AFC East lead. hit opened the gash on his chin. "Physically, now, we're hav; 
"It tends to hit you a little bit ing a few problems, so maybe harder after you've had some it's a blessing in disguise," success," Bledsoe said of the Parcells said, noting that the 
·losing streak. "We're to the Patriots were missing both point now where we expect to starting wide receivers for al­be able to win ballgames and to most the entire Jets game. go out and kind of beat our­Michael Timpson didn't play selves with the turnovers we because of a groin injury, and have is very frustrating." Vincent Brisby left with a ham­
The Patriots, idle·this week­string injury in the first quar­end, have extra time to work on ter. 
GO 

BANANAS 
...It's the BIG 
21 Iff 
Happy Birthday David 
Love Dad, Mom, Mike and Tim 
7:00 TONIGHT! I 

impression he no longer was in the Oilers' plans. 
"That's fine, I just wished that somebody would have let me know," he said. "There were people in that organiza­tion who I thought would let me know, even if top management didn't. Other guys who I felt close enough with, as far as friendship, that they would let William Fuller know the skinny. And it didn't happen." 

EDUCATION 
FOR TilE REAL WORLD 
Graduate degree programs (MA, Ph.D) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues. 

Area and Functional Fields: 0 Interamerican Studies (including U.S.-Latin American Relations) 0 European Studies 0 Post-Soviet Studies 0 Comparative Development 0 International Business 0 International Economics 0 International Health Policy 0 International Relations Theory 0 International Security and Conflict 0 Foreign Policy Analysis 
Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other financial aid. 
~ N9~h·~,qvr~Fc~w~~ 
Students who are interested in Interamerican issues are particularly encouraged to apply for North-South Center Graduate Assistantships. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Admissions, Room #339 CoralGables, FL 33124-3010 (305) 284-4173 
Mmfii 

SUBWAY six-FEET ... IRISH de-FEAT. 
NOTRE DAME 

vs. 

WATERLOO 

Sit back with a SUBWAY six-foot party sub (as low as $37.95) when watching the Irish hockey team play host to Waterloo at 
Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
7:00 tonight in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 
Friday, October 21, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
DAVE KELLETT 

DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 


ACROSS 25 Make an appeal 4& Like 2& White House 
33-Across's1 Apple apple

monogram

competitor 50 Suffix meaning 27 Outfit4Gambler "small one" 
Holliday 29 Make an appeal 7 Fifth-century 
30 Miners' sch. 51 Pack animal? pope 32 Out of sorts 52 Laid-back 12Green 
53 Quick to blush 33 Friend of 56 London14 The ·s· in T. s. 

21-Across 
barristerEliot 35 Affected by

16 Men of La 58 Game officials 
pollen

Mancha 59 Making out 
38 "Clan of the

17 Farmer's tipcart 60 Hot time in 
Cave Bear" 

11 Cartridge type Chile
heroine 

19 Aviatrix, for &1 Umpteen's
39Chosen

short ordinal?
number?

20 Point of no &2 Green lights 
42Anwar'sreturn? 

successor

21 Hidden theme 43 Pickpocket
of this puzzle DOWN 24 Last word of 
44 Slangy hello 
1 Hosp. hookups "Finnegans 45 New York eng. 

2 Doctors often Wake" sch. 

carry them 3 Franciscus TV drama of the 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
60's 


4 "Dream Lover" singer 5 With no letup 6 Price abbr. 7Material a Pro follower 9 Dog, for short 10 Proof goof 11 Minimal ante 13 A bit obtuse 
19 Corset result, perhaps 
get thin 
22 "I'm glad that's over!" 23 Sealy rival zaN.H.-Vt. neighbor 300pen 31 Whirligig 32 Actor Gerard 33 Boxer's title, briefly 34 Short shot? 35 Daphne and hazel 3&lt's like home? 

~:a:· .a.~·­
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


Celebrate a friend's 
birthday with a special 
Observer ad. 

37 Bomber Boomer 39 Beethoven's 
only opera 40 Sight saver? 41 Peaked 43 Cockpit display 44 Mrs. Rockefeller 47 Former capital 
of Bolivia 48 Underground 

event 49-gland 54 It ended in 
1806:Abbr. 55 Two or go 
follower 56 X 57 Football 
linemen: Abbr. 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Brought to you by your friends at the Student Union Board: 
ROBIN 

OLIVER STONE 
GREENSTEIN 
4§3i~li4ihU.
Does the next Seinfeld go to Notre Dame?! Come find out at the first annual student comedy club. SEINFEST '94: Coming ·~ November 3rd. 


SPORTS 
page 16 Friday, October 21, 1994 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 


Duke rallies to upset Tar Heels 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
At North Carolina, students can practically enroll and graduate without seeing the women's soccer team lose. 
On Wednesday, something downright bizarre happened. The Tar Heels lost a game, and one of the mightiest marks in college sports came tum­bling down. 
North Carolina's streak of 101 games without a loss ended with a 3-2 loss to Duke. That made it only two losses in 206 games. 
North Carolina had not lost since Sept. 22, 1990, when it fell to Connecticut. Before that defeat, the Tar Heels had reeled ofT 103 straight games with-
see UNC I page 11 

No. I ? 
e 

A loss by top­ranked North Carolina may put the Irish into pole position 
SfWomen's Soccer 
Irish against Top 20 Teams 
Current Rank When 
Rank Team Outcome Score Played 
#1 North Carolina T (0·0) oT #1 #4 Duke W (5·0) #6 #7 William &Mary W (4·3) 0T #10 #11 Portland W (2·1) #11 #12 Washington W (1·0) #13 #13 Wisconsin W (2·0) #8 #14 George Mason W {1·0) #7 
The Observer/Robert Bollman, Jr . 

Weekend wins needed for jump 
ByRIANAKEY 
Associate Sports Editor 
As if the Notre Dame women's soccer team didn't already have to worry about looking past their games against Ohio State and Detroit Mercy this weekend, a loss to Duke by top-ranked North Carolina may have Irish eyes looking in yet anoth­er direction-toward a first-ever No. 1 ranking. 
With a 13-0-1 record which includes a 6-0-1 mark against top-20 teams, a home sweep this weekend would make No. 2 Notre Dame the only major undedeated team in the country. Having thrashed No. 4 Duke 5-0 earlier this season, the Irish would be seriously considered to replace North Carolina at the top of the polls. 
see IRISH I page 11 

• VOLlEYBAlL 
IIth-ranked Irish open MCC play 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
The 11th-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team begins Midwestern Collegiate Conference action this weekend with a match versus Xavier on Friday night and Butler on Saturday night. 
Coming off a victorious road trip last weekend with wins over 14th-ranked Texas and Texas A&M, the Irish will bring an 18-1 record into the week­end. With a week of practice under their belts, the team has been improving and is ready to show who's at the top of the MCC. 
Irish head coach Debbie Brown said that practice has gone well this week, and they have been focusing on improv­ing each day. 
"We tried to work on a specif­ic area each day this week, " said Brown, "and I'm confident we've fixed some of our weak­nesses." 
The Irish have proven to be a force to reckon with in the MCC, as they have won 24 con­secutive conference games. 17 of those games have been in the regular season, and seven have been in MCC post-season tour­nament play. The Irish have claimed three consecutive MCC tournament and regular season titles, and look to do the same this season. 

Their first obstacle to doing that will be the match against Xavier on Friday night. Although Xavier does not have the national ranking and recog­nition of the Irish, they will bring a 15-6 record to South Bend. The Irish have had great past success with Xavier, win­ning 8 of 9 matches against them, including the last five in a row. 
Xavier's strength lies in their ball control and defensive skills, as shown by their team leader sophomore setter Susie Checkett, who has 918 assists and 182 digs. Checkett is also third in the MCC in hitting per­centage with .389. 
"I think both Xavier and Butler's strength is their de­fense," sajd Coach Brown. 
"They are not going to let up on us." 
On Saturday night, the Butler Bulldogs will look to ruin the Irish reign of the conference. Butler stands at 11-10 on the season, but have been the most successful MCC opponent against the Irish. Even though the Irish have won five con­secutive matches against the Bulldogs, Butler has managed to win five matches in the se­ries, forcing the Irish to an 11-5 record against them. 
Butler posts a strong outside hitting game with five players with more than one hundred kills. They are led by sopho­more outside hitter Stephanie Wesley, who leads the team with 221 kills, and a last year all-MCC first team selection Laura Blaire. Defensively, the team has 1288 digs in 73 total games played this season. 
Brown looks to both teams to 
see MCC I page 11 


of note...
MEN'S SOCCER 

Raul Mondesi of the Next weekend, the Irish travel west to face 
Notre Dame hosts Wisconsin tonight at 7:00. 

Los Angeles Dodgers was named the National League 
UCLA and Cal State Fullerton. Rookie of the Year
MEN'S SOCCER 





