
Thursday, Januarv. 20, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 72 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Mass celebrates hardw-ork, dedication of SMC w-on1en 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The past, present and future of Saint Mary's will be cele­brated today as the entire College community joins to­gether for a unique liturgy to 
• see WOMEN, page 8 
kick-off the sesquicentennial year. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross, faculty, staff, students and alumnae of the College will con­vene this afternoon at 2 p.m. in temporarily remodeled Angela Athletic Facility for the celebra­tion. 
The Saint Mary's community will be honoring the hard work and dedication of the women connected in every way with the College over the past 150 years, according to Acting Dean of Student Affairs Sister Mary Brassil. 
"This is an overwhelming ex­perience," said Maureen Sullivan, student representative on the Liturgy Committee. "It really puts my four years here into perspective." 
The Sesquicentennial Liturgy Committee has been planning the Mass for two years, accord­ing to Brassil, chairwoman of the Liturgy Committee. 
"Everything that takes place in the celebration has a special meaning," Sullivan said. "It is neat to see everyone's hard work finally coming together." 
Even the date of the Opening Liturgy was carefully chosen. Jan. 20 was decided upon, be­cause it is the anniversary of Father Basil Anthony Mary Moreau, the founder of the Congregations of Holy Cross. 
Liturgical Composer Marty Haugen was commissioned to compose the Opening Rite. 
This score is to be performed by both Saint Mary's and South Bend musicians. The piece is being submitted to the Gregorian Institute of America for publication. 
The Saint Mary's Women's Choir will lead the community in song throughout the celebra­tion. Senior Anne Pugliese and Richard Patton, a member of the music department will work together as cantors. Solos will be performed by Loretta Robinson and Sarah Bradley Fink, also faculty members of the Music Department. 
The Cross and candlesticks were also commissioned specif­ically for the Sesquicentennial Liturgy. Designed by craftsman David Layman, the bronze candlesticks display the the vine and the branches that symbolize the gospel story, John 15:1-17, that will be read by Father James Gunshinan. The Class of 1940 donated the processional items in memory of their deceased valedictorian Mary Frances Chilson McGovern. 
"The involvement of former Saint Mary's students is won­derful," Sullivan said. "So many different people have been will­ing to donate their time and effort." 
Alumna Regina Lupo '73, went so far as to design and create the quilt that will be used as the backdrop in today 's liturgy. Lupo, in conjunction with Graphics Professor Sister Alma Mary Anderson, incorpo­rated symbols of the Congregation of the Holy Cross into the 15 ft. by 20 ft. back­drop. The College's colors, blue and white, the fleur-de-lys, the lily, and the cross that is part of the College's seal are found in the design. 
The event also called for spe­cial commissions for the priest's vestments, the panels covering the Table of the Word, the Table of the Eucharist and backdrop coverings. The vest­ments, designed by Brother Francis Gisez, complement the table coverings sewn by Sister Hope. 
"It has been wonderful to see the stages involved in the cre­ation of all these things de­signed for the mass," Sullivan said while listening to the Opening Rite, at yesterday's rehearsal, for the first time. 
The College Liturgical Dancers, led by Associate 
see MASS I page 8 
Employees 
Catholic education seen speculate 
as gift to improve society 
bar's fate By DENISE MILLS the Church." 
News Writer While praising the effective­
ness of Catholic education, By SARAH DORAN At a time when education is Sheehan made a point not to Associate News Editor a top priority in society, compare Catholic schools to 
Catholic education is striving other schools. 
Employees of Bridget for excellence and effective­"I am not trying to make McGuire's Filling Station, an ness, while at the same time comparisons. I do not like to area bar located at 1025 South recognizing a special need for promote Catholic schools at the Bend Avenue, returned from Catholic educators, according expense of other institutions." their Christmas break to a sign to United States Catholic Sheehan said. In setting on the door of the bar giving Conference Secretary of Catholic schools apart from notice of its indefinite closing. Education Sister Lourdes others, Sheehan said that 
They have been not only been Sheehan. "Catholic school's effectiveness unable to contact the owner of With the United States edu­is due to the high expectations the bar, Terri LaPata, since cation system lagging behind it puts on its students." December, but have also been other countries, public schools While praising Catholic edu­unable to collect paychecks for test scores dropping, and vio­cation, Sheehan also spoke of work completed prior to the lence in schools existing twice some of the basics, such as the break. as much as ten years ago, financing of Catholic educa­
LaPata did not return phone "Catholic education is a gift to tion. With the main source of calls for this article. society," according to Sheehan. income for Catholic schools 
"We have no clue of what's As part of the order of the being tuition, Sheehan and going on now," said Cliff Sisters of Mercy, whose mem­other people involved in Clancy, who works as a bounc­bers devote their lives to ser­Catholic education are seeking er at Bridget's. "I have heard vice, Sheehan takes 'a fourth better ways to finance Catholic that LaPata has been trying to vow of service, helping the schools for the 21st century. sell the bar for a while." poor, sick and ignorant. One factor in the financing of 
The two rumors circulating Participating in Catholic edu­Catholic education is that there among employees on the fate of cation fulfills this fourth vow is no longer the stipend men­the bar are that it will not open for her, she said. tality that existed a generation until it has been sold and that "It [participating in Catholic ago when Catholic educators LaPata is on vacation and will 
education) has allowed me to consisted mainly of clergy re-open Bridget's upon her 
participate in the mission of members, said Sheehan. return, according to Clancy. 
the Church," Sheehan said. Today, people choosing to go Neither rumor has been con­
"Each of us has a responsibility firmed. 
to be a part of the mission of see ACE I page 6 

Lafayette Square bounces back after multiple break-ins 
Editor's Note: The following the most popular off-campus 
most students enjoy living in Hogan.stories are second in a three­student complexes, stepped-up this exclusively student commu­The available four to five bed­
part series examining off-cam­security has qualmed some 
nity. room apartments are equipped pus housing options for Notre fears. "I really enjoy living in with all appliances, including a Dame and Saint Mary's stu­"Security in the beginning Lafayette," said senior Colleen built-in security system, accord­dents. was ridiculous. We were very Hogan. "The nicest part is liv­ing to Matteo. 
fearful for our safety," said 
ing with all students." Residents also receive other
By CORRINE DORAN senior Lisa Waltor. "I definitely Yet, some of the residents "I don't have a car, but I can benefits from living in the com­News Writer feel better that they have 24-like senior Darren Wallis, still always get a ride to campus at plex.hour security." 
express concerns. any time," said Waltor. Each apartment is assigned
Although a series of break-ins Despite the publicity generat­"I feel safer now, but I Many students choose certain parking spaces and this fall has caused some resi-ed by the break-ins, leasing wouldn't advise people to live Lafayette because they have a there are also additional spaces 
reservations for the 1994-95 here. I don't think security in large group of friends they throughout the complex, said 
year are on schedule, according the neighborhood is very good," 
• see OTHERS, pages 6-7 want to live with. Matteo. 
to Chris Matteo, owner of the said Wallis. "We chose Lafayette because Maintenance is on call 24 
complex. To provide peace of Waltor reported incidents of there were 10 of us that wanted hours, according to Matteo. dents of Lafayette Square to mind for students, the complex being harassed at the local 7-to live together and we were While most students did not reconsider their move to what has added a full-time security 11. able to get two five-personshas traditionally been one of guard every night, he said. Beyond the issue of security, next to each other," said 
see LAFAYETTE I page 7 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Going outside risks life and lilllh 
There are few things that could actually drive me to question why I left my home in Texas four years ago to study at Notre Dame. But I can think of two. 
The first-that I have no clue what I am going to do with the rest of my life-is Meredith

something that I am not yet ready to come to McCullough terms with. (And since it News Editor probably has little to do with my university choice and more to do with my curriculum choice, it's irrelevant.) 
But the second is something that slaps me in the face every time I set foot outside my apart­ment. Slaps me in the face. bites me on the ear stings me in the eyes, and makes my life mor~ or less miserable. 
T~is Texas girl just isn't use to all this fluffy white stuff-not used to the Arctic winds. Not used to the convulsion-like shivering. Not used to the frozen hair effect. 
Things that used to be so easy have been giv­ing me more than a little bit of trouble. 
Gone are the days when I could roll out o bed, hop in the car and make it to class just as 
the professor was starting the lecture. In the past week I have learned the importance o planning, the skill of slowly warming an engine. and that the first ten minutes of a lecture aren't all that important anyway. 
Parking in Cl has always been frustrating, but never quite like this. "Parking" has taken on a whole new meaning as straight, orderly rows of cars have vanished into a free-for-all man­gled maze of utter confusion. 
I have given up the hope that I will ever exer­cise again. 
You'd think that after four years in this ice­box. I could beat this thing. But I'm seeing things that scare me. 
Is it right for the speedometer to read 75 or 80 miles-an-hour when I am clearly doing clos­er to 20? 
Is it right to stall every 3 feet or to do a ninety degree turn when you're aiming for a 40? 
Is it right for ice to accumulate on the inside of the windows where it is safe from the dan­gers of the scrapers? I don't think so. 
Actually, I can deal with the car situation, it's the welfare of my body that I worry about. The experts have me terrified. I risk life and limb to leave the apartment. 
"Do not go outside unless you really have to " warned meteorologist Nancy David. "If you a;e stranded in this weather, your flesh could freeze in minutes." 
So. what constitutes "really have to?" 
Do I really have to make it to my classes? Do I really have to make to the office to fill blank news pages? Do I really have to make it to Coach's for just one refreshing beverage? 
A concerned friend was kind enough to remind my to watch my breath. When the air gets below negative 80 degrees with the wind­chill, she said, your lungs will freeze and one deep breath might cause instantaneous death. 
So until the temperatures in Indiana are once again higher than those in Alaska, I have taken up the art of wrapping myself so thoroughly that only one-fourth of my left eye shows. And I've stopped breathing-just to be safe. 
But all is not lost, in fact, I hear there's a heat wave heading in for the weekend. It's going to be in the 40s. 
The mews expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
JUDAY'S STAFF 
News lab Tech 
Michael O'Hara John Bingham 
Kate Crisham Production 
Sports Cheryl Moser 
Jonathan Jensen Jackie Moser 
GraphicsViewpoint Chris Mullins Jason Thomas 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vac2tion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, January 20, 1994 
Attorney General Reno could name Whitewater counsel by Thursday 
WASHINGTON 
Attorney General Janet Reno could name a special counsel as early as Thursday to probe President Clinton's investment in a development company with ties to a failed Arkansas savings and loan. 
Reno's aides have been sounding out prospective coun­sels for a week since President Clinton asked for an out­sid~ investigation of his money-losing investment in Whitewater Development Corp .. and its links to Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan. 
Candidates said to be under consideration were former Attorney General Benjamin Civiletti, who served under Pr~sident Carter; former U.S. Attorney Dan Webb of Chicago, who was deputy independent counsel in the !~an-Contra investigation, former U.S. Attorney Robert Fiske of Manhattan, and Michael Manning of Kansas City, who prosecuted of Charles Keating, owner of Lincoln Savings in Irvine, Calif.-
Civiletti and Webb were on a list of seven candidates suggested by Senate Republican leader Bob Dole of Kansas. who pushed Reno to appoint a special counsel to probe the Whitewater matter. 
Reno resisted the demands on grounds anyone appoint­ed by her would not be considered truly independent because he or she would still be answerable to Reno. 
Then on Jan. 12. Clinton succumbed to political pres­su~e and asked her to appoint a special counsel. At that P?mt, she vowed to select a "ruggedly independent" spe­cial counsel. 
Reno left town last Friday for a trip to Arizona and Texas. Wednesday was her first full day back in Washington. However, Deputy Attorney General Philip Heymann, Assistant Attorney General Jo Ann Harris. who oversees the criminal division, and some of their aides were checking potential appointees in Reno's absence and Reno was in regular phone contact with them' according Justice Department spokesman Carl Stern. ' 
Justice Department investigators have been trying to determine whether depositors' money was diverted ille­gally from Madison, which failed in 1989 to the Whitewater Development Corp., a planned v~cation­home project in Arkansas. 
A ent identifies Davidian he sa s shot him 
SAN ANTONIO 
A federal agent showed jurors his bloodied vest described his bullet wounds and confidently pointed out the Branch Davidian he said shot him. "There's no doubt in my mind that man shot me," agent Eric Evers said Wednesday as he gestured toward defendant Livingston Fagan, who sat expressionless in court. Evers was the sec~nd _Bureau ?f Alcohol. Tobacco and Firearms agent to testify m the tnal of 11 Branch Davidians charged with murder and murder conspiracy in the killing of four agents and the wounding of 16 others. Six Branch Davidians also are believed to have died in the 45-minute gunfight that followed a Feb. 28 raid in which the agents sought to arrest Davidian doomsday prophet David Koresh. The raid triggered a 51-day standoff that ended April 19 when Koresh and about 80 followers died amid a huge fire authorities said the Davidians started. 
Rabin unclear ifSyria accepts idea of peace 
TEL AVIV 
Prime _Minister yitzhak Rabin said Wednesday he was not convmced Syna has accepted the idea of full peace th~t !srael dema?ds in exchange for any territory. Rabin sm~ m a speech m Tel Aviv that no sign has emerged that Syna was accepting Israel's definition of peace, despite 
U.S. assurances to the contrary. His remarks, coming after Syrian criticism of Israel's "cool" reaction to President Hafez Assad's statements on peace, were likely 

Madison was owned by longtime Clinton supporter James McDougal. He and his wife co-owned Whitewater with the Clintons, who have said they lost $68 900 on their investment. ' 
Also being investigated is whether Madison funds were diverted to help retire Clinton's 1984 gubernatorial cam­nail:m rlP.ht. 
t? further chill the atmosphere as Israeli and Arab nego­tiators prepare to. reconven~ in Washington on Monday. In Egypt. meanwhile, the ch~ef Israeli negotiator said dis­agreements over border crossings out of Palestinian self­rule areas still bog down Israeli-PLO peace talks. lt might take weeks to find a compromise. he said. 
White House searches for Pentagon chief 
WASHINGTON 
As the White House reopened its ~earch for a new Pentagon chief, outgo­mg Secretary Les Aspin continued his round of farewell dinners but also pushed ahead on a major report on the 
st~tus of the nation's "';ilita.-y. The su<·a;.·.·~
:.··.."*.•""'.·.···.·.·.'.'·..·"'.A
..
pnse Withdrawal of ret1red Adm. Bobby ~-·­Inman, nominated last month to replace '%k " . Aspin. left many in the Pentagon shak-~ ing their heads Wednesday. And it prompted expressions of concern from a former secretary. "You've got a major problem because the administration, in effect, doesn't have its national security team in place ... (and) we're a full year into the administration," former Defense ?.e~retary_ Dick Cheney said in an interview with CNN. 
It s a maJor post, and to have it. in effect, leaderless at a time like this is a serious problem." But officials close to Aspin. who had resigned last month under pressure and was supposed have left by Jan. 20, said Inman's with­drawal ~uesday ~ppeared to have energized him and offered him some time to wrap up several pet projects. 

PlJtl ~ (ll CID; 
atroe a; .{) llna' BxaRm 82 ?.5 001 Ehtn 11 (I! H:uin CfugJ ~ ·19 J..i:sDr'gi5 Q:trrtu; 5 ~ Mrri
v.. AssodatBd Pr•ss GraphicsNet Clt994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 20.
11Bursday,Jan.20 
Accu-Weather 8 forecast for daytime conditions and hi 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS RURRIES SNOW ICE 
48  23  M'rEqxt;  1  .2J  
61  J3  J'o&vCftrs  <t3  :B  
6  ·16  f'o&vY~  ll  2  
71  63  ~  6  6  
i9  <ti  Ami<  8)  -v  
w  ffi  al..ai5  14  ~  

----._____________j 
---------------~------­
page 3 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, January 20, 1994 
Prejean: Penalty is unequal punishment 

By MARSHALL ENOS News Writer 
They were found lying face down in a ditch in the rural country of the lowlands of Louisiana. The nightmare began that night for the parents of 17 -year-old Loretta Bourke and 18-year-old David Leblanc when these two high school students didn't come home from a local football game that night almost twenty years ago. Instead, Bourke was found raped and shot three times to the back of the head. Next to her laid Leblanc, who had been beaten and also shot three times to the back of the head. 
When Elmo Patrick Sonnier and Eddie Sonnier were con­victed for mercilessly killing these two children, the state of Louisiana exacted a price on them for the deaths of Bourke 
and Leblanc. Eddie's punish­ment was prison time with an 
The Observer/ Alan Smith 
Art in the making 
opportunity at parole. But 
Breen Phillips sophomore Cecilia Emery works on a sculpture in her Ceramics Class. 
Patrick would pay with his life for the murders of Bourke and Leblanc.
Confessed killer may face death penalty Such was the background for 
Associated Press 
EVANSVILLE 
An Evansville man has admit­ted killing a woman and a man in May and could face the death penalty as a result of his guilty pleas. 
Vincent Prowell admitted during a plea hearing Tuesday that he shot Denise Powers, who lived in an apartment next to him, and Christopher Fillbright of Henderson, Ky., who was visiting her. 
Prowell's confession before Vanderburgh Circuit Judge Richard Young was made with no plea bargain. Young could give Prowell, 29, the death penalty or a 120-year prison sentence. 
When Young asked Prowell if he shot Powers and Fillbright, both 22, on May 27, Prowell said, "Yes, I did." 
"Me and Mr. Fillbright had words. Mainly his words. A lot of racial slurs and coming at me. I had never seen him in my entire life," said Prowell, who is black, of Fillbright, who was white. "I shot Fillbright, and I shot through the window of Ms. Power's car." 
Young scheduled sentencing for March 3. 
Deputy Prosecutor Brett Niemeier said Prowell was hop­ing to avert the death penalty by throwing himself on the court's mercy. He said Fillbright was shot point-blank in the back of the head. Powers was shot once in the right tem­ple and once in the face, defense attorney Donald Vowels said. 
Niemeier said Prowell contra­dicted his original statement that no words were exchanged before the shooting. "It was just because he (Fillbright) stared at him in a militant way," Niemeier said. 

Announcing the National Security Education Program Competition 
Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of world outside of Canada and western Europe. Study of exotic languages preferred. 
. 
Come to the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Thursday afternoon, January 20, 1994 at 4:00p.m. in room 136 DeBartolo. 
the story of Patrick Sonnier that was told by Sister Helen Prejean, in her lecture in the Human Rights Lecture Series titled "Dead Men Walking: An Eyewitness Account of the Death Penalty in the United States." 
Prejean, an opponent of the death penalty, began her cru­sade for the abolishment of the death penalty in 1981 after she became a pen pal of Sonnier while he was on death row. 
The story of Sonnier's life on death row drove Prejean to become an active writer, lec­turer, and community organiz­er involving issues of poverty, civil rights abuse, and the death penalty. 
Born and raised in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Prejean has lived and worked there almost her entire life. 
She has met with leading legal advisers and lawmakers, including several state gover­nors and United States Supreme Court justices. While working primarily with Louisiana death row inmates, she has appeared on "ABC World News Tonight," "60 Minutes," British Broadcasting Corporation, World Service radio, and an NBC special 
series on the death penalty. According to Prejean, of the 
2700 death row inmates in the United States, all are poor and 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
many are mentally. retarded. 
The United States, she said, is 
the only industrialized nation 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments at Very Affordable Rates" 
• SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 
that has the death penalty. She also pointed out that the United 
~·NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS States was one of only six nations in the world, including 
~. ENTRY SECURITY 
Iraq and Iran, to allow children 
• LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 
• 4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS • PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM  The Observer  
• SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW  Viewpoint Department  
• PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS  is now accepting applications  
• SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY  for the following paid position:  
Now TAKING APPliCATIONS FOR '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR  Copy Editor  
FoR MORE INFORMATION CALL  Applicants should submit a resume and a 1-2 page personal  
232-8256  statr:ment by 5 p.m., Thursday, January 20. Contact Suzy Fry at 631-4541 for more information.  

under 18 years of age to be executed. 
She argued that while many people believe the status of the crime decides the punishment, it is actually the status of the victim that usually determines whether or not the death penal­ty will be given. 
Prejean said that race is the single most important issue when deciding the death penal­ty. 
According to Prejean, this issue of race works in two ways. First, if the murder vic­tim is a member of a minority, the death penalty is not vigor­ously pursued. Second, if the accused person is a member of a minority, most prosecutors press for the death penalty. 
There has been no equal jus­tice under the law, according to Prejean. Many politicians and prosecutors support the death penalty simply as a blanket cause for a tough stance on crime. Also, many prosecutors will only push for the death penalty when their chances of winning are high. These are usually the cases involving minority defendants who are poor and unable to obtain an adequate defense. 
The key aspect of Prejean's argument against the death penalty is her compassion for the families of both the victims and the convicted criminal. She has founded Survive, a support group for the families of murder victims. 
In her defense of the accused, Prejean points to her role as a Catholic nun, saying that the taking of any life, be it a mur­der or an execution, done under the cloak of justice is morally wrong and unjustifi­able. 
She explained that the death penalty is an extreme case of mental abuse and constitutes cruel and unusual punishment. Prejean described the death penalty as a process of people becoming property under the justice system to be dealt with and then discarded. 
According to Father William Lewers, a professor of law and director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights at Notre Dame, killing capital offenders is seen as an option to trying to rehabilitate. 
"We are warehousing prison­ers today. We are not rehabili­tating them. It costs more to warehouse than to rehabilitate 
and  that  can  be  proven,"  
Lewers sai d.  
In  her  closing  remarks,  

Prejean indicated that only 
politicians benefit from the 
. death penalty, and that it is simply a diversion of resources that can be used for prison reform and anti-crime mea­sures. 
------------~---~--· 
page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 20, 1994 

Come Hear & Meet 
PEACE CORPS' NATIONAL DIRECTOR CAROL BELLAMY 
Friday, January 21, 1994 
Campus Presentation Topic: "Globalization of Workforce 2000" Hesburgh Library Auditorium 12:15 p.m. & Reception & Proclamation of Peace Corps Day· Morris Inn North Notre Dame Avenue 4--6 p.m. & Peace Corp Information Table 
Hesburgh Library Concourse 10 a.m. --4p.m. · 
For more information call: 1--800..621--3670 ext. 106 Peace Corps is an independent development agency of the Federal Government now serving in more than 85 countries. 
----~--------~----­
Thursday, January 20, 1994 The Observer· CALIFORNIA EARTHQUAKE 
Victims digging out from rubble 
By JOHN ANTCZAK 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Brick by brick and block by block, Southern Californians salvaged what they could Wednesday from the deadly earthquake that could end up matching Hurricane Andrew's $30 billion cost. 
As the death toll from Monday's magnitude-6.6 quake rose to 44 Wednesday, relief efforts slowly gathered steam. 
Throughout the city, residents rushed into and out of quake­damaged apartments and homes, tossing clothing and furniture into pickups and rental vans before building inspectors could condemn their homes. 
Near the quake's epicenter in Northridge, work crews unrolled -chain-link fence around a condemned apart­ment building as a procession of rental trucks pulled away. 
"You could say it's a mad­house in here," said Norm Plotkin, a worker at a U-Haul rental center, as a crush of peo­ple lined up for trucks. He rent­ed 25 trucks in a matter of hours. 
President Clinton surveyed the damage Wednesday and ordered $45 million in initial quake relief. But Gov. Pete Wilson said total damage could reach $30 billion, making it as costly as Hurricane Andrew, the nation's most expensive natural disaster. 
In a bitter taste of post-quake life in Los Angeles, thousands of commuters, robbed of their freeways, spent hours negotiat­ing canyon roads and city streets to get to work. 
To the north, cars jammed the Sierra Highway to bypass the damaged intersection of state Highway 14 and Interstate 5. A dawn aftershock caused a rockslide that narrowed the four-lane route through Newhall Pass to two lanes. Last week's 45-minute commute took as long as four hours. 
"When you have to get up at 3 to get to work by 9, yes, it's a nightmare," said Mario Beltran, 31, a barber commut­ing from his Palmdale home 35 miles to the northeast to work in San Fernando. 
Drivers will have plenty of time to get used to it: Repairs to the area's freeways will take a year and cost $100 million, the state transportation depart­ment said. 
"Right now most of th~m don't know_ where they-'r~ going," California High:way Patrol Officer Jim Mair said as he directed traffic. ''But I imag­ine they'll be picking it up pnit, ty quick. They'll have a lot of time to practice." 

0\1o·s au,"'
.,0~ 234-4015 ~~0\t 
rrfie 'Biggest o/a[ue 9\&rtfi oftlie 'Border 
0~ ~~ 
~~~~t~ 50¢ OFF ;:/fr~u':f;y 
u~~~ 0-tV... ~~A~ 
~ Any Submarine Sandwich s/1:,_,'1 Bandito Burrito or Pancho's Nachos 
AT THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE --"1 never ------be a:aze>d_,_:_,;,:..-••,.':._;SOllth,erri 
_the ~Iiergy;;@d opt!1tl1~m Officials of the Federal •--· cot(rageatl.diconstai1fgQ'o· ..• _. mergency<)i:Manageme ___ _ 


Also appearing: Notre Dame ROTC Major Roger Norfolk Captain Stephen Tyler Sergeant James Austin 
Sponsored by The Observer 
---------~·-~--~-­
page6 The Observer • OFF-CAMPUS Thursday, January 20, 1994 

Location, furniture draw students to Campus View 
By LIZ FORAN 
News Writer 
For the student looking for an off-campus apartment but not the furniture to fill it, Campus View Apartments is a popular choice, for rent includes both furniture and utilities. 
"Twelve of us all decided to move off campus together," said senior Angie Crandall, "and between us we had maybe one couch." 
The apartment's close prox­imity to campus is also an influential factor for those desiring an alternative to resi­dence hall living. 
"The location is good," said Crandall, who rides her bicycle to campus in fair weather. 
The 96 one or two bedroom Campus View units also have access to an outdoor pool, a hot tub, a weight room and tennis, volleyball and basketball courts. 
Although it is a critical aspect in many students' search for an off campus residence, students claim that security and parking are not a big worry at Campus View. While it is ample during the week, added security on weekends prevents many prob­lems from occurring and also keeps parties from getting too wild. 
"They keep it under control 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
into Catholic education for the most part accept modest salaries, she said. 
Voicing her concerns and hopes for the future of Catholic education to an audience of students possibly seeking careers as Catholic educators, Sheehan commented on the future of Catholic education by stating that "Catholic schools will be the kinds of schools that will meet the needs of students now and in the future." 
The lecture. sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education, was held at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
You ran help prevent heart disease and stroke. We can tell 
you how 
American Heart Association 



Cancun Mexico  f.om$439  
Negril Jamaica  t.om$449  
Montego Bay Jamaica  t.om$419  
Daytona Beach, FL  r.om$149  
Panama City Beach, FL  f.om$129  

~~ 
On-campus contact: · Mike @634-4o451 Angie @634-4659 
:ro ~-........, ..5~'"' Michael @634-1121 
1~soo-64B-4!W9 
BEUHOVEN'S 2ND(PG) 1:00.3:00,5:15, 7:15,9:15 GRUMPY OLD MEN(PG13): 1·15, 4:15. 6:45.9:00 IRON WILI.(PG). 12:15.2:30,5:00,7:30. 9•45 PHILADELPHIAIPG13) 1:3C. 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
Tl£ PEUCAN BRIEF(PG13): 12:30, 4:00, 7:00,10:00 TOMBSTONE(R) 2:45, 515. 7:45, 10:15 
MRS. DOUBTRRE(PG13) 4:15. 7:15,9:45 Tl£ AIR UP THERE (PG) 4:30, 7:00.9:30 WAYNE'S WORLD II lPG 13) 5:00,7:30. 10:00 


Variety attractive at Castle Point 
and keep the people off the bal­conies," Crandall said. 

Apartment maintenance is also well taken care of, acord­ing to some students. 
"When you call, by the next day they fix it," said senior Brian Harr. 
But Crandall disagreed, claiming that the service is good for emergency problems, but for little things, "they let it wait and wait." 
"Some friends of ours had leaks in the walls and mold was growing and it took them until fall break to fix it," Crandall said. 
Leases for the two bedroom apartments run from the week before classes start until gradu­ation, nine months total, although a two month short term summer lease is available to all, students or not. The one bedroom apartments are leased for 12 months. 
Campus View leasing office refused comment. 

By CORRINE DORAN 
News Writer 
Castle Point Apartments offer a slightly different living envi­ronment from most other off­campus facilities, as the major­ity of the residents are non­students. 
While managment tries to group students together. most are surrounded by families. 
Senior Bill Siemer said that although a couple with a baby lives below his apartment and requires a quieter lifestyle, it is not to the degree that it bothers him or his roommates. 
This resident mix can be attributed to the complex's location, which, at the inter­section of Ironwood and Cleveland roads, makes it one of the furthest from campus. 
·But student residents feel that the benefits of the com­plex outweigh this percieved drawback and praise the com­plex for its security, upkeep and price. 
"The security gate at the front deters people," said 
Siemer. 
A 24-hour attended gate and nightly patrols are provided by the complex, according to Castle Point representative Gloria Frank. 
"If someone comes after 11 p.m., they call to make sure that it is okay if they come in." said senior Kendra Pickens. 
Siemer feels that security makes the complex especially ideal for women. 
"We thought it was a great place for students, especially females moving off campus," he said. "We can't understand why more people don't live here." 
But security is not the only issue facing students in off­campus living. 
When there is a maintenance problem, Siemer said that a call to the front desk takes care of it. 
"They come out within 48 hours and if there is a problem with an appliance more than twice, they usually replace it," said Pickens. 
Having a personal bedroom 
··::::::: 
~:;: :::: 
1


l'"t:\.~ .t :~:• ::.:::::::::::;.::,::.::.::.::.:~,1,:.:.:~
•.:... .. .... ....··:·::·...:·':... .. ::·.::·.:;·.:;.. ::.·, •··':·;.....···:·::·:·':···'::·.·':..
·'·.:·:·.·'':··:.· :· ·······':.... =·.::··,:.·::·::· .. :=i.·,i.. .·,:···'·:·,···'·::!·... .... '·... .... ...
%,~:~:~!, 

is also an added benefit to those living in the complex. 
The apartments at Castle Point are available with one or two bedrooms. Many of the two bedroom apartments have lofts and dens to accommodate up to four people. Apartments are unfurnished. and residents are responsible for paying for their electricity, said Frank. 
Any apartment can be leased for six months or one year; after a lease has expired, leas­ing goes on a monthly basis. One bedroom apartments start at $381 and two bedrooms start at $466, according to Frank. 
"It's as inexpensive to live here as anywhere else, and the apartments are nicer," said Pickens, who has three room­mates. 
Included in the price is access to a clubhouse that holds a number of recreational activities. 
Students have begun to sign up for places next fall and a waiting list will begin May 1, according to Frank. 

COME TO LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS ON FRIDAY, 
JANUARY 21, AND TAKE PART IN THE (Q)l?lEt"J §I[A illE EVENT WHICH IS SCHEDULED FR0 M ll ([) ~ ®® lP 00 --l¥1 IIJ]) t\J IT CG II-IT TI\ 
NO ADVANCE SIGN-UPS ARE NEEDED. 
THE COST OF SKATE RENTALS IS $1.00 AND ALL RENTAL FEES WILL BE DONATED 
TO SPECIAL OLYMPICS. 

-------~--~-------~ ~ ~~~--------·-~--~~~ 
------~----~----~~~ 
Thursday, January 20, 1994 The Observer • OFF-CAMPUS page 7 
Low rent attracts students to first-year ND Apartments 
By CORRINE DORAN said the security personnel News Writer from Lafayette also tour the Notre Dame Apartments area. 
In its first year of serving stu­However, residents say that no dents and faculty of Notre guard has been on the premis­Dame and Saint Mary's, the es. 
most attractive feature of Despite the lack of a security Notre Dame Apartments has guard, students feel secure in proven to be its low rent. the building. 
For students choosing a less "We haven't had any prob­expensive alternative to cam­lems. The apartment building pus living, the two bedroom is pretty safe. You need a key apartments' $250 a month rent to get into the building and the is hard to pass up. doors have two locks," said 
"I basically chose it because senior Shayne Bushfield. it is cheap and I have my own room," said senior Chris "I think a lot of people are Fettweis. afraid of the neighborhood," 
Yet. the first year after a said Bushfield. The apartments major renovation has not are located just south of cam­occurred without some prob­pus. 
lems. One aspect that does not pre­
"We have had a few changes sent a problem to the residents in management. Some told us is the maintenance. things that never came "They are pretty prompt. through," said Fettwies. The maintenance workers are 
The renovation gave the not a problem," Bushfield said. apartments everything from Fettweis said he would rec­
inside, although the neighbor­hood is not that great," said Bushfield. 


new cupboards to new security alarms. 
"They are really nice on the ommend Notre Dame Apartments to students because of their attractive price and convenient location. 
The Observer/John Bingham Despite burglary attempts earlier in the semester, Lafayette Square remains a popular choice for students moving off-campus. 
I, 
~ 
J 
l 1 
1 
1 
-~------~~ ~---·----~­
~-----~----­
-------~---~-~~----------~--­
page 8 The Observer· SMC SESQUICENTENNIAL Thursday, January 20, 1994 
Tradition of 150 years marks milestone for women 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Saint Mary's Editor 

With only 84 women's col­leges remaining in a country that once was home to more than 250 such institutions, the fact that Saint Mary's is cele­brating its 150th birthday dif­ferentiates its festivities from all of the other sesquicentennials the community has celebrated in the past two years. 
"For a Catholic women's col­lege to be celebrating its sesquicentennial and to have all this strength is really remark­able," according to Sesquicentennial Committee Chairwomen Dorthey Feigl. 
The challenge that the com­mittee met, according to Feigl, was trying to define what it meant to be a Catholic women's college founded and sponsored by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Arriving at the theme "Honoring Tradition, 
Mass 
continued from page 1 

Professor of Dance Indi Dieckgrafe, will precede the opening procession in which members of the faculty, admin­istration, Board of Regents and senior class will enter in caps and gowns. 
The dancers will also lead the Gospel Preparation of the Gifts and the Closing Processions. Special vesture for the dancers was designed by Barbara Manley. 
"The combined efforts of the Pioneering Change," the com­mittee hopes to embody what these qualities mean through events that focus on the history of the College, as well as its continuing achievements in educating women. 
With Saint Mary's plan for its new governance system, where more power will be vested in the laity of the College, being introduced during the sesqui­centennial year, a major theme of the year-long celebration will be what it means to be "spon­sored by the Sisters of the Holy Cross," according to Feigl. 
"It used to be that the Sisters drove this school," Feigl said. "They had an understanding of women's education with tremendous foresight. "Their goal was to discipline minds and give them power," she added. 
With three years of planning and the once obscure plans now becoming a reality, Feigl said 
community seems to be an ex­pression of everyone's appreci­ation for the College," Brassil said. "It is not just the Sisters that are saying Saint Mary's is special, it goes beyond that." 
The celebration of the sesqui­centennial has encouraged the community to look back and examine the history of Saint Mary's, according to Brassil. 
"It is so overwhelming to think back on the history of the Congregation," she said. "Those women were here in weather lfke this, without the comforts that we have now. 
"They started so small with that the experience has taught her that Saint Mary's and its founders are strong. 
"The remarkable achieve­ment of these women who came here and traveled from France to Bertrand, Mich. to undertake the education of girls, the risk of going someplace not knowing what to expect is what makes Saint Mary's so strong today," Feigl said. 
The vision and strength of the founders and leaders of the College is embodied in the theme. 
"'Honoring Tradition' because it is so strong and influential in the daily operation of the College, 'Pioneering Change' because we're carrying on the tradition of Sisters who were pioneering changes for women at a time when no one else was," Feigl said. 
She added that the College, as the "flagship of Catholic women's colleges across the nation," continues to be an 
such strong conviction," she continued, "and through hard work and dedication, their ini­tial work has touched the lives of an incomprehensible number of people." 
The sesquicentennial year and its planning is a good pe­riod of time for increased inter­action between the students and the original roots of the College,the Sisters, according to Sullivan. 
"This celebration should be an incredible experience that will touch everyone," said Sullivan. "If they (the commu­nity) miss this, they will really be missing out on a lot." 

innovator in women's education today. 
The establishment of the Graduate School of Sacred Theology, which operated on the campus from 1946 to 1969, is perhaps the greatest example of pioneering change, Feigl said. 
"We prepared women ahead of time for the changes in the Catholic Church," Feigl said. "It was risk-taking with enor­mous vision. It's a classic example of what it is to pioneer change, not innovation for inno­vation's sake. We were fulfilling a need." 
The event programming for the entire year incorporates events for all people in the Saint Mary's community, including an upcoming Student­Faculty Traditional Dinner and Women's College Conference for students, faculty and admin­istrators; a dinner-dance for members of the College staff series that appeals to the facul­ty academics; and the Storybook Festival for members of the community. 
"We wanted it to be every­one's celebration," Feigl said. "It's a celebration of Saint Mary's aimed at who we are and who we are becoming." 
"What we have found here is that the Sisters have created the soul of this school," she said. "The infrastructure may change and we have to adapt, but we adapt it so that the asso­ciation (with the tradition) gives us strength and power." 
In a time that many people have questioned the existence of single-sex education, Feigl said these people only need to make a trip to the College. 
"All the people who ask why there should be women's col­leges in this country only need to come to Saint Mary's and see. A few days here and they'll know why we've survived 150 

and their families; a lecture years and counting" she said. 
The Observer 
News Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Copy Editor 
Applicaqts should submit a resume and 1-2 page per­sonal statement by 5 p.m., Thursday, January 20. Contact Meredith McCullough at 631-5323 for more information. Also, The Observer is currently seeking enthusiastic writers for the Business Section. Please call Mike Martin at 234-1228 if interested. 


GLOBALIZATION OF WORKFORCE 2000 
By Carol Bellamy, National Director of Peace Corps 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 21 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 12:15 PM 
RECEPTION AT THE MORRIS INN 

4:00-S:OOPM 


Co-Sponsored by Multicultural Executive Council and Student Government 

otre Dame and SL Mary's Seniors 
ONLY 12 DAYS LEFT UNTIL ACE APPLICATIONS ARE DUE 
l~l~lllllJilllY I 


ANY QUESTIONS: 
CALL FR. TIM SCULLY C.S.C OR SEAN MCGRAW AT 631-7052 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 January 20, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAI!'IT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor................Meredith McCullough  Advenising Man•r..................... Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor.............................. Suzy Fry  Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser  
Ac«nt Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters  OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller .......................................Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administra· rion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com· muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Sysrems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  



LETTERS TO THE miTOR 
Class officers refute, dispel ticket questions 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to the January 19th letter written by Jennifer Earls, Nicole Rauert, Ann Potter, Molly Davis and Aimee Garbison who, dis­appointed in their failure to obtain "Phantom of the Opera" tickets, accused the Sophomore Council of a "gross mishan­dling" of the trip. We feel it is our duty as your elected class officers to respond and clear up any misunderstandings. 
While we regret the impossi­bility of the Sophomore Class Council to provide all sopho­mores with Phantom tickets, we feel satisfied with the large block of tickets we were able to obtain by calling for them in early October. As with any class project, purchasing such a large amount of tickets pre­sents substantial risk to our budget. We learned this lesson the hard way when we lost a great deal of money in unsold tickets to the Blackhawks game in December. It is unfortunate that Jennifer, Nicole. Ann, Molly, and Aimee misunder­stood our policy in selling the JPW tickets, for we had no such limit on the number of tickets that each sophomore could pur­chase. Our primary goal was simply to sell all our tickets to cover expenses already incurred. While they might have been the eighth or ninth group in line to purchase tick­ets, there were several groups ahead of them who were pur­chasing tickets for themselves as well as friends. It is there­fore easy to understand how eighty tickets were sold so quickly, much to the council's 
DOONESBURY 
"PEAR z: YOU SEEM!?&· ZONK/ WGTANT 7V 5HOaJ 7H8 GH MARJ<513RJ/35. 51£££S­OI.JTA T/ON: tuHYN(JTJ/ET TH&J?&l PU8U5H A atP? HElP­
' PU/.L.Y, /?.!?.r
/ N&W 
YORJ<." 

pleasure. With $9000 invested in the JPW Escape trip, we sim­ply could not afford to set sales restrictions. Further yet, due to past experiences, we did not anticipate such an overwhelm­ing demand for tickets. 
As for the accusation of "neg­ligent and very unprofessional" selling procedures, only a very limited number of tickets were 
'With $9000 invested in the JPW Escape trip, we simply could not afford to set sales restrictions.' 
pre-sold to those council mem­bers directly involved in the planning of the trip. It should be noted that many council members were also waiting in line when we sold out of "Phantom" tickets. 
While we do agree that the "Phantom-show will be a great experience, it is important to realize that it is only one small part of the JPW escape trip. Tickets are still available for the Second City Comedy Show which will be no less a "won­derful experience with class­mates." We would like to thank all the Sophomores who contin­ue to support our class pro­jects. 
MICHAELA KENDALL SARA FORD MARC MCDONALD lAUREN AIMONETTE The Sophomore Class Officers 
6REAT f[)&A, R.R.. / ONe Ctl~ C1JM!N6UPI ANYON& INT/3R&STW IN S8£3./N6 THe IAIHOte 5&RJ&S CAN W/?!TE TO 7HIS N&WSPAPtl<! ROU fTl 

ND student shares King's hope~ 
Dear Editor. 
· I am responding to Chandra Johnson's letter in Monday's Observer, a piece which sin­cerely moved me. No American citizen, no matter which race he belongs to, should have to suffer discrimination and the "subordination" that Johnson encountered. However, I do believe that Johnson's encoun­ters with racism and social injustice with "white" people do not reflect the general feel­ings of hatred and separatism among all Caucasians. 
First of all, it is unfair to con­tinue to blame whites for the social damages that white peo­ple caused many years ago ­that's like continuing to hold a grudge against all Germans for the surrering that they inflicted upon'J,iJews during the>e Holocaust! I anfnot suggesting · that we forget our terrible his­tory and the ..unaCC(;lptable racial hatred·that took place. 
I do hold inmy heart, howev­er, the hope that today people are teaching their children to love each other regardless of differences in culture and her­itage. We cannot revoke our actions in the past, but we can certainly carve a path to the day when all United States citi­zens will possess the human dignity that Dr. King spoke about, and that this human dignity will be respected by alL 
At the Dr. Martin. Luther King, Jr. service at the Basilica on Monday, Sharmien Swinton, a sophomore at Notre Dame, beautifully reflected upon the_ need for us, as the Notre Dame community, to take all that we have ]earned here and to extend it vpast the J.A.C.C." 'Wi 

As intelligent adults, it is our responsibility to take an active stance against racism, and to feel in our hearts the truth that we are all the same species, struggling to succeed. As Johnson said, "let's ... assist God in the recreation of the world."' It's up to us, the Notre Dame family, to change "society" into a more accepting and open­minded environment. 
KATRINA WORMAN 
Sophomore 
Pangborn Hall 
Ji}{ 
Fairness in book review praised 
Dear Editor: 
I was happy to learn of the publication of the book, "A Coach's Wife: A Notre Dame Memoir," by Teresa Godwin Phelps through your review in the sports pages of the Tuesday, Jan. 18 Observer and at least as happy to be able to purchase the book in the Campus bookstore. Having read the book now, I believe your reviewer, John Lucas, was accurate in his review, espe­cially in writing that the book does not read as if born of vin­dictiveness. It seems instead written in sorrow that loved ones could have acted so badly. The book is convincing, too, that Fathers Malloy and Beauchamp and Mr. Rosenthal did act badly. 
As Mr. Lucas points out, there are themes in the book, which 
is rich in honest reflection on the reality of Notre Dame as a life at Notre Dame, other than moral community and institu­the arrogance of these men in tion which on occasion is not this instance. Another more represented by the actions of prominent theme is the incon-those authorized to act in its gruence of a very concentrated name. Many members of this authority which wields a power community are personally com­of expulsion from the communi-mitted to higher causes, learn­ty and promotes the institution ing, compassion and justice .it administers as a "family." among them, and hold these to 
Another concerns not the be objectives which the institu­
administration but the commu-tion cannot compromise in its 
nity itself -the bifurcation in actions. These members when 
its nature between its usual hurt by the mistakes of the 
behavior and its behavior rela-leadership do not reject the 
tive to sports competitions. The institution. Indeed, as in the 
former is usually generous, case of the Phelps, they feel 
thoughtful; the latter often they are more the institution 
thoughtlessly celebratory and, than those who hurt them. 

in such instances, still more Again, my thanks for having 
thoughtless and destructive. given, in my opinion, a very 
I wish to mention one more -useful book fair coverage. 

of many, as I say-which is JOSEPH M. TAMA 
brought into especially sharp Assistant Professor 
relief by the Phelps' plight. It is Depanment ofManagement 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

(( Idon't mind stealin' bread . 
from the mouths of deca­
dence.;' 

-Temple of the Dog 


By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Editor 
T
hroughout its first 40 years the success of Satnt Mary's had been marked by the bravery, foresight and courage of its lead­ers. Plagued by debt and a nation on the verge of financial disaster, the College once again turned to its leaders for its strength in times of trouble. 
With the building of Le Mans Hall in 1924, the College gained a home and a large debt, but despite its financial difficulties, the College never quit dispensing scholarships and financial aid to its students. 
College President Mother Pauline O'Neill was always concerned about the students at Saint Mary's, but those of particular concern to her were those that relied on the aid in order to study at the College. 
One such student came to Saint Mary's only by O'Neill's and the College's aid. 
On visit to Chicago apartment complex, O'Neill saw the face of a small girl in the window of the basement apartment. Upon inquiry she learned that she was the daughter of the apartment's janitor and without a mother to raise her. 
Before leaving , O'Neill asked to see the janitor and offered to take his little girl back to Saint Mary's with her where she could go to school and meet other children. 
"It is what my little girl need, good lady, but I can't afford it," O'Neill relayed later. "We have a hard time trying to get along. Once I thought I would have to give her up. She's all I have, you know." 
Touched by the small girl, O'Neill offered the man to let her daughter go to school and only pay sometime if he had money to spare. 
The man, with tears in his eyes, sent his daughter off with O'Neill to Saint Mary's. She was placed in the children's department (a grade school that operated on the campus since its early days). Ten years later, she graduated from the high school of Saint Mary's Academy. 
It was this kind generosity that O'Neill brought to the College as well. The College's financial struggles never overshadowed the needs of its students. 
In the meantime, the curriculum and the edu­cation of the professors at the College continued to strengthen. Many of the sisters that taught at Saint Mary's were earning doctoral degrees from universities across the nation. Classes were added in sociology, journalism and equestrian riding. 
In 1931, at the age of 77, O'Neill retired as presideiJt of the College. During her 36 years as president, Saint Mary's was transformed from a struggling Academy to an Academy and College known across the nation for its excellence in educating women. With her foresight and courage she built Holy Cross and Le Mans Hall as well as a College curriculum and a superior staff. 
The General Chapter of the Sisters of the Holy Cross named Sister Irma Burns, as the interim president to succeed the legacy of O'Neill. 
Schooled in accounting, Burns' three-year administration was marked by steadfast conser­vatism, especially in financial matters. The pres­ident with a business mind, was just what the College needed during the time of a nationwide depression. 
The time was critical, as low enrollment plagued universities across the country. Saint Mary's was able to do what many schools could not at the time-keep its doors open and still provide a superior curriculum for the small num­ber of students that enrolled. 
Like it had in the past, Saint Mary's was able to survive the struggle. 
I
n 1934, Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff returned to the school from which she had graduated to become the College's third president. 
"The best qualifications I brought to my office were these: my ability to dream, my capacity to work," Wolff wrote about her appointment as president in her autobiography "My First Seventy Years." 
Dreams for improving the College and working to achieve these goals is what Wolff did as presi­dent. 
During her first year, Wolff reshaped the College catalogue with the aid of Dean of Studies Sister Frederick Eggleston. The reorganized cur­riculum was divided into four areas of education­al development: physical, intellectual, spiritual and social. Courses in these areas fell into upper 
see LEADERSHIP/ page 2 


-----·----------~----------~-------------------------~~~~---­
r--------~--.---~ 
page 2 The Observer ·150 YEAQ6 Of 6AINT MAQY'6 Thursday, January 20, 1994 

A look back 
at the people, places and policies of Saint Mary's College 
Compiled by Jennifer Habrych The School of Sacred Theology accepted and con­
Carmelita Desobrey, who reg­ferred degrees upon men, mak­istered at Saint Mary's in ing Father Luke Dyjak, Father September 1943, was the first Richard Grimm and Monsignor black student to enroll at the Joseph McCarthy male alumni College. of Saint Mary's. 
The Martin de Porres Student Marion McCandless, '00, Scholarship Penny a Day was alumnae executive director, inaugurated in 1949 to bring was reprimanded by College one black student to Saint President Sister Irma Burns, for Mary's each year. Each student inviting students on one of her dropped a penny into a jar in daily morning walks to the her room every day. At the end Grotto at Notre Dame. of the year enough had been McCandless had agreed to let collected through the pennies to two students and their friends furnish a scholarship to one join her for the walk one morn­person. ing. The next morning. the stu­dents brought along an excess of more than 90,friends. The procession of students coinci­dentally arrived at the same time that a large number of Notre Dame men were also at the Grotto. "You are responsi­ble for the only blot on my scutcheon," Burns told 
were held at Saint Mary's dur­Until this time smoking had ation with the American McCandless in a conference in ing the late 1930's and 1940's. been forbidden for students at Association of Universityher office. 
The dances, to which men from the College. Among reasons for Women (AAUW) during the••• Notre Dame were invited, were the new ruling were. the fire 1932-33 academic year. The
December 6, 1930, English 
a highlight of the social life at hazards posed by students AAUW rejected Saint Mary's
author G. K. Chesterton pre­
the College. smoking in their rooms, in the application because of poor
sented a lecture to students 
••• tower of Le Mans and behind library service and unsatisfac­titled "The New Enslavement of Saint Mary's was one of the the boat house. tory library equipment. The 
Women." She said that the 
first colleges in the nation and ••• application was also rejectedbusiness world does not in any the first in Indiana to recognize During the Great Depression because of facultv inbreeding. 
way allow a woman the free­the Crusade of Charity was •••
the importance of including a dom she has in her own home. nursing curriculum. A five-year organized. The student orga­Dorothy Holcomb, a professor••• degree program in nursing nizers were inspired by the of music directed the New 
In 1933 the first off campus, opened at the College in 1935. counsel of Pope Pius XI which Philharmonic Chamber or day, students were officially ••• said to "forestall the evils of Orchestra in New York in Aprilaccepted. By 1935, 50 off-cam­College President Sister unemployment and distress 1944. She also directed the pus students enrolled at the Madeleva Wolff designated a which the coming year may Philharmonic Little SymphonyCollege and organized the room in Le Mans Hall where bring." Orchestra at Carnegie Hall in 
Commuters Oub. 
smoking was allowed in 1935. The College applied for affili-February 1944. 
Sunday afternoon· tea dances 
The Riedinger House was built in 1939 "needed teachers who could sell God." administration and teaching nursing. to house home economics classes. The With no graduate programs existing to With men leaving to fight the war,
Leadership 
house provided the model environment educate teachers of religion, Wolff women across the nation joined the in which students, could learn and prac­approached Catholic Un~versity, Notre ranks of "Rosie the Rivetor" to makecontinued from page 1 tice the skills they learned in their Dame and other universities across the and supply the country with the combat 
and.lower divisions. The installation of .::ourses. nation, but no program would admit supplies it needed abroad. the senior comprehensive as a require­To celebrate the centennial of the women. The women of Saint Mary's led the ment for graduation was also incorpo­founding of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, While speaking with Bishop Edwin way, not just by utilizing the skills rated into the curriculum at this time. ground was broken for the Alumnae O'Hara, Wolff told him of the problem, learned in the classroom, but by buying 
With the country on its way to finan­Centennial Library (now Haggar College and he suggested that Saint Mary's open war bonds, purchasing three jeeps and a cial recovery, Wolff also worked to Center) in 1941. The structure would be a graduate program to women in theolo­field ambulance and making rosaries, increase enrollment at the College. the College's first free-standing library. gy, saying "The place is ideal." wallets, stationery and cigarette cases 
D
The College escaped the need to build The preliminary program opened its for the soldiers. aunted by the rules when she more dormitory living space, when the doors to students in the summer of was a student at the College, Academy for high school students trans­1943, making it the first program to The College and its curriculum Wolff, who called herself a "non-ferred from the Saint Mary's campus to admit women and the first to provide continued to grow and change as conformist" as a student ruled with the Erskine estate in the Twyckenham classes aimed at the teachers of theolo­the role and needs of women in what she termed a "relaxed grasp." Hills area of South Bend. The Academy gy. society did. She ended the ban on student smoking which had been based in Collegiate Hall, Always an innovator in the education Leading Saint Mary's out of the dark­and established the first student gov­became the new freshman living quar­and advancement of women, Saint ness of the Great Depression and into ernment to allow students the ability to ters for the College and was renamed Mary's also worked to keep its students the bright future, Wolff was recognized influence the rules. The students were Holy Cross Hall. aware of world events and their conse­throughout the nation as a leader in reluctant to take the helm though, Improvements to the physical plant quences. The goal of the College was to education. because they didn't want "to take the were never overshadowed by Wolfrs truly prepare today's woman for the In 1950, she was chosen as one of blame for things." desire to continue to strengthen and opportunities and traumas that the seven Women of Achievement at the But, the students soon began to take expand the curriculum. future could bring. Women's International Exposition in control of their opportunities. After the United States entered World New York, but among her largest "At first the girls did not want the Wolff strived to make theology War II, the College expanded its curricu­achievement was the legacy she was responsibility," Wolff told a Life maga­classes popular on a campus lum to teach skills that students could carving for herself and Saint Mary's zine reporter in an interview. "Now that educated women in the use durin!! the time of war. across the nation. they want to do everything." liberal arts tradition, because the study In 1943~ a course was added in techni­As a leader in the education of 
women, the spotlight continued to shine
of theology gives "sequence, importance cal drawing. whieh. was used for making 
military blueprints. on Saint Mary's, and no light wasand validity to all other subjects," sheWhile Wolff was not primarily con­brighter than the one that shone on its
wrote in "My First Seventy Years." The nursing curriculum added home
cerned with building the physical plant, 
president as the College entered its
Troubled by the lack of interest in the­defense classes including home-nursing, 
she found that plans to build were nec­
ology, Wolff told Life magazine that she and first aid, as well as classes in ward renaissance. 
essary. 
THE RENAISSANCE YEARS: 1925-1950 _< 
• 

1931-Mother Pauline O'Neill 1934-5ister Mary Madeleva 1935-Mother Pauline 1939-Riedinger House, a retires after 36 years as the Wolff appointed the third O'Neill dies at age 81 model used by home econ­
omics department, was built
1925 President of Saint Mary's president of Saint Mary's 




Static, the first formal newspaper 1931-5ister Irma Burns appointed the 1935-Senior comprehensives were 1941­at Saint Mary's, began publishing interim president of Saint Mary's instituted as graduation requirement nial o 

Thursday, January 20, 1994 The Observer ·150 YEAQ& Of &i\INT MAQY'& page 3 
.... 

School of Sacred Theology paves way for women's graduate studies 
Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives . Sister Mary Agatha, a student in the graduate School of Sacred of Theology, answers the questions of her 
professors during an oral examination. 
Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Archive 

The Alumnae Centennial Library (now Haggar College Center) was built in 1941 in celebration of the centennial of the Sisters of the Holy Cross with ~ost of the funding coming from alumnae donations. 

Wolff. scripture. 
They were also encouraged toThe permanent School of Sa­In order to receive the de­write lengthy articles for publi­cred Theology was established grees, students participated in cation.

June 19, 1944, under the guid­oral comprehensive examina­After graduation, the majorityance of the local diocese, the tions in front of an audience. 
of students took teaching posi­tions on the college and sec­ondary levels or worked in the formation of young religious. 
Enrollment in the School of Sacred Theology grew as more women and religious orders learned of the unique program. 
Students traveled from across the country and abroad to learn from some of the most eminent Scripture scholars and theolo­gians. 
In December 1949, Saint Mary's received a letter of com­mendation from Pope Pius XII through Cardinal Pizzardo. Pope Pius gave apostolic bless­ing and "rejoiced in the success of the School of Sacred Theol­ogy." 
During a special meeting on 

Alumnae Centennial Library marks the dawn of the modern library at Saint Mary's 
ByJENNIFER HABRYCH But, with the AAUW report and growing num­Saint Mary's Editor bers of volumes the College realized a need to expand its library facilities. They also recog­
When Saint Mary's application for affiliation nized the fact that such a facility would take a with the American Association of University new building and funds. Women (AAUW) was denied during the 1932-33 The project final began in 1941. In celebration school year, one main reason was given for the of the centennial of the Sisters of the Holy Cross rejection-poor library service and equipment. a ground-breaking took place for the new library 
Since the early days of the school. books were that would over look Lake Marian. always available to students, but often the vol­With two donations of $25,000 from Anna umes made up small libraries in the classrooms White Rempe, whose seven daughters had to which the volumes were relevant. attended both Saint Mary's Academy and 
It was not until the opening of Collegiate Hall College, and a $41,000 donations from the Breen (now Holy Cross Hall) in 1904, that the first offi­family of Fort Wayne and alumnae drive headed cial room was designated as a library. by Alumnae Director Marion McCandless '00, 
On the first floor of the south wing•. the area funds for the building of the Alumnae Centennial that is now the chapel, became the first library of Library were secured. the College. With. the completion of the structure. hundreds 
While many branch libraries still remained in of Sisters of the Holy Cross formed a line in the the classrooms, the library in Collegiate Hall was sweltering heat from Queen's Court to the new li­the first that all students. in all classes and disci­brary. In a bucket brigade fashion, the Sisters 
plines could frequent. passed the volumes down the line to move the 
When Le Mans Hall opened its doors in 1924, books from the old facility to the new one. the collegiate library was moved to the second With the new volumes in place, the Alumnae floor "Queen's Court" section. but this library Centennial Library opened its doors to the stu­wing was still supplemented by the small class­dents when they returned in the fall. room libraries that professor's kept within their The Saint Mary's library now had a home of its classrooms. 
January 18, 1965, the Board of Trustees approved acceptance of men into the School. Four men studied on the campus in­eluding Episcopalian Bishop William Sheridan before the Doctoral Program in Theology at Notre Dame was established; 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh announced the newly organized depart­ment of theology at Notre Dame in Septe)Ilber 1966. The doctor­a! program would accept both men and women. 
College President Sister Mary Grace Kos addressed the ne­cessity for continuing the School at Saint Mary's when the "needs (would be) so well served at Notre Dame." 
Wolff previously had recon­sidered the need for such a pro­gram at Saint Mary's should something similar be created at Notre Dame. "The time would come, perhaps soon, when Saint Mary's would have ful­filled an appointed task in God's design, then let it yield to the university, where the deep­er study of theology properly belongs," she said. 
Students at Saint Mary's protested. They fervently op­posed the closing and peti­tioned the administration with letters even after the official announcement on May 26, 1966. 
Despite the reluctance of the students and administration, the final students graduated from the program in 1969. 
The initial goal of the school was achieved. The School of Sacred Theology paved the way for the establishment of pro­grams across the nation that allowed women the opportunity to study theology on the gradu­ate level. 

ll l':"'
.:.·: 
J\, , 
. :'':'\···· 

By LYNN BAUWENS 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
It is commonly known that Saint Mary's College pioneered women's undergraduate educa­tion. However, the School of Sacred Theology of Saint Mary's also advanced study on the graduate level for women. 
Between 1946 and 1969, the School awarded 76 Ph.D.'s and 354 Master's to women in the study of sacred doctrine. 
Founded by College President Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff, the preliminary graduate program was establi"shed on campus during the summer of 1943. 
The first of its kind, the pro­gram aimed to provide instruc­tion to teachers of religious ed­ucation. 
The School was "intended to provide graduate courses and degrees for women in theology at a time when these were not available to them and yet were greatly needed, according to Dominican Friars and the Sis­
I

ters of the Holy Cross. 
• l

"The fundamental aim is to --:. open up to women students the ] 
::

field of graduate level study of ~ the sacred sciences," according 
~· 
to a school bulletin. 

The rigorous course of study required two years and three summers of work. To be ac­cepted, students were required to have a reading knowledge of Latin. 
Comparable to the education received by men in the semi­nary, the program emphasized the study of scripture and the­ology. 
Courses offered included Moral and Dogmatic Theology, Old and New Testament, Church History and The Call­ings of Women in the Church and the World Today. 
Completion of the course of study lead to the Degree of Doc­tor of Philosophy in Religion for Sisters and Lay Women with concentrations in theology or 
1941-Groundbreaking and 1945-8aint Mary's Academy is 
blessing of the cornerstone for 100 moved from from College campus 
the Alumnae Centennial Library to Erskine estate in Twyckenham 1950 
YEARS
(now Haggar College Center) Hills in South Bend 
opening of the centen­1942--Dedication of the 1944--0fficial opening of the Grad­Saint Mary's gains membership in the American Sisters of the Holy Cross Alumni Centennial Library uate School of Sacred Theology Association of University Women (AAUW) 
-




·-­
Sister Madeleva left a legacy at Saint Mary's 
page 4 The Observer • 150 YEAQ6 Of 61\INT Mi\QY'6 Thursday, January 20, 1994 
oeve10pment: pnys1cal, mtellectual, spiritual and social. Senior comprehensives became a requirement for graduation at this time. 
In the late 1930's a student govern­ment was organized for the first time at the College. 
During this time, a recreation room was opened for those students who smoked. This unusual act for a Catholic college received nation publicity. 
Many said that WollTs recollections of her own non-conformist days at the College played a large role in abolish­ment of the rule against smoking by stu­dents. 
Wolff had a dream of bringing a build­ing for the arts on campus. She began to collect funds to finance the construc­tion of a fine arts building. In 1955, O'Laughlin Auditorium and Moreau Fine Arts Center were completed. 
O
n May 13, 1961, at the age of 
74, Wolff announce her re­

tirement after serving 27 years as president. She remained at Saint Mary's, giving lectures and writing. 
In July 1964, Wolff went to Boston for a routine physical examination. She suf­fered sever pains during her trip. Tests indicated that she needed surgery for a non-malignant condition. 
On July 25, while seemingly on the way to recovery, Wolff died from post­operative complications. 
Wolffs spirit, however, is still alive at Saint Mary's. All of her accomplish­ments helped to develop the College into the establishment it is today. 
Editor's Note: 
This section is the third ofsix sptcial sections commemorating Saint Mary's College and its . 150-year tradition. 
Special thanks aregiven to Sister Rosaleen Dunleavy and Sister Monica Wagner of Colltge Archives. 
EDITOR: Jennifer Habrych 
PRODUCTION~ Lynn Bauwens 
GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan 
•. 
( 
-
By KATIE CAPUTO 
Assistanc Saine Mary's News Editor 
T
he history of Saint Mary's evolved through the activities and contributions of many peo­ple. Few, however, can take credit or as many significant contributions to the College as Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff, the third president of the College. 
On May 24, 1887, on the small island city of Cumberland, Wis., August and Lucy Wolff were blessed with the birth of their first and only daughter, Mary Evaline. Eva, as they called her, was described as "a vigorous, independent child who loved skating, swimming and learning." 
On cold Sunday afternoons in the win­ter, Wolff and her father used to read poetry aloud. This interest in poetry helped guide her innate gift for writing verse. This talent developed to the pro­fessional level as she grew and matured. 
In 1904, at age 16, Wolff graduated high school. She intended to apply to college immediately, but financial strug­gles put college on hold for a year. 
Since she had no knowledge of any Catholic colleges, in 1905, she enrolled at the University of Wisconsin, where she became a math major. 
Although the school had great profes­sors and opportunities, she was unhap­py there. She felt that her questions and concerns for the reason of her existence were not being answered. 
It was not until she saw an advertise­ment in a magazine that read "Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind. A Liberal Arts College for Women, For information address the secretary," that she became aware of Saint Mary's. 
In 1906, Wolff left the University of Wisconsin and applied to Saint Mary's. She was immediately accepted and be­gan school at the beginning of the next term. 
Although her transcript was all A's and B's, Wolff was placed in a freshman level English class. By Thanksgiving, however, she had been moved up to the sophomore level. 
It was the teacher of this class that changed her life. 
Sister Rita Heffernan was exactly the kind of influential woman that Wolff was searching for in her life. Heffernan had studied at Harvard, and was the first person to assign Wolff to write lyric 
'Goddid not make sisters 
out of girls like me.' 
Sister Mary Made/eva Wolff 
verse. 
With little self-confidence in writing poetry, Heffernan advised her to try to think in verse. Shortly after this, Wolff realized her own gift and switched her major to English. 
Being a previously independent per­son, Wolff found herself a non-con­formist at Saint Mary's. She was not used to the strict rules of the College, and found a few of them quite foolish. 
"As a Saint Mary's girl, I was and am 

Snowstorm 
The air is white and winds are crying. I think ofswans in Galway flying. 

Winds are wings; snow is a rover; · Swans ofGalway are flying over. 
Winds are birds; spowis a feather. Wild white sWans are wind and weather. 
Wings drift downward; snow is falling,; Swans are wild crying; calling. 
Winds are white with snow but alway Mine are white with swansfromGal..vay ... 
One of Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff's many published poems, "Snowstorm" won first place among poems from Indiana at the 1939 World's Fair in New York. 
she 
It was in October 1906, when attend­
ing her first retreat, that the idea of 
leading a religious life first entered her 
mind. ... 
Yet, she felt that she had disqualified herself by cutting classes and throwing parties in her room. "God did not make sisters out of girls like me," she said. 
One afternoon, she had a long talk with one of the sisters from the school about religious life. Wolff said that she would do anything in order to please God, yet she did not know what. "That is all that one needs for a religious voca­tion," the sister replied. 
When saying good-bye at the end of the school term, Heffernan gave Wolff a copy of "The Story of Fifty Years," her own history of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
After the discussion with the other sis­ter and reading of Heffernan's book, Wolff had made her decision to live the religious life that she was so curious about. 
On Dec. 10, 1908, after taking her temporary vows, she became Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff. or "Model Eva," as her father liked to say. 
"The honor of bearing a combination of the names of the Mother of God, Madgalen, the friend of Christ and Eve, the mother of mankind, had always impressed me deeply," Wolff would say. 
Wolff received her Bachelor of Arts from Saint Mary's in 1909. 
She was assigned to teach English in both the College and the Academy. She made per perpetual vows on Aug. 15, 1914. 
In 1918, she rec'eived her master's degree Notre Dame. 
It was in graduate school that her first poems were published. One of her pro­fessors, Father Charles O'Donnell, fu-
Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives 

(left) Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff served as the College's president from 1934 to 1961. As a noted poet and leader across the coun­try, Wolff reformed the curriculum, improved the physical plant of the College and earned national recognition for Saint Mary's. (above) Wolff and Marion McCandless '00 attend a book signing for McCandless' new book "Family Portraits," which chronicles the history of the Alumnae Association. (right) Wolff in her days as a student at Saint Mary's. 
ture president of Notre Dame, submitted 
some of her lyrics to the "Atlantic 
Monthly." From that point on, she con­
tinued to publish verse. 
In 1919, she was sent on a mission to Ogden, Utah, at Sacred Heart Academy. 
In 1922, she began working towards a doctoral degree at Berkeley. It was in one of her classes there that she wrote the popular essay "Chaucer's Nun's," which was described as a "portrait of a nun as seen by a nun." 
D
uring the summer of 1922, she was transferred to Holy Rosary Academy in Woodland, Calif., where she continued her writing. 
In 1925, she received her doctoral degree. She is said to be the first sister ever to receive this type of degree at Berkeley. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross opened a new college in Salt Lake City in 1926. Wolff was assigned to be the first presi­dent of the new school, Saint Mary-of­the-Wasatch. Here, she continued to write and teach. 
In 1933, the Superior General, Mother Vincentia Fannon, sent Wolff overseas to study and observe at Oxford University in London. She enrolled herself in lec­ture classes and traveled extensively. 
She arrived back in South Bend in August 1934 and was appointed the new president of Saint Mary's. 
"The best qualifications I brought to my office were these: my ability to dream, my capacity to work," she said upon accepting her new position. 
During Wolffs administration, many significant changes and additions occurred on the campus. 
Her first year in office, the College had 21 sisters, two priests and two lay pro­fessors in the faculty and administra­tion. Slightly less than 300 students were enrolled at the time. By her last year as president, the College had a staff of 50 religious persons and 72 lay per­sons with more than 1,100 students. The inclusion of lay faculty had been a valued characteristic of the College since 1848, during its first days on the Bertrand campus. 
In 1935, the College catalogue was revised. The academic curriculum was organized under four basic areas of 
~ ~-~---~~ -------~----~-~--~ ~-~--­



ACCE-NT 
January 20, 1994 page II 
Notre Dame a~d Sai~t Mary I s to eV\te~taiV\ p(.,\blic this weeke~d 
Stephen King's 'Ghost Stories' creeps into O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's 
By ELIZABETH CLARKE lights. The story of "Timmy Baterman" Accent Writer chosen from "Pet Cemetery," moves zombies through a field of spirits in the Fans of scary stories are in for a howl­woods where generations· of children ing treat this Sunday when O'Laughlin have buried their beloved pets. "Pet Auditorium opens its doors to frighten­Cemetary" is a relentless story that ing sights and Erie sounds as it creates promises to lure any audience. Also, in the perfect setting for a haunting sur­"Strawberry Spring," the sly storyteller prise. casts a goulash spell as he reveals more 
The audience will have a chance to than he should know about a campus witness six haunting dramas written by serial killer. novelist and ghostmaster Stephen King, one of Americas best-loved and most Most of the selections emphasize the successful writers. King has brought story such as "Grey Matter," and "The avid readers of horror and science fic­Boogeyman," much of which is a come­tion chilling best-sellers. He has mysteri­dy wherein a plain and down to earth ously crept into the very subconscious father confesses to the wicked murder of minds of readers. Perhaps this is why his children. Unfortunately, this seem­this genius has been able to stay out to ingly pleasant tale unveils terror in the the limelight and create a unique and very end. Just who is the Boogeyman? mysterious vision of himself. You'll have to catch "Ghost Stories" to 
find out. 

The six dramas entitled "Ghost Further, the actors have been known Stories" was adapted for the stage by to hold the audience in a mood of taut­Stageworks Artist Director Robert ness and expectation. For all fans of Pridham. The Director of Sunday's per­Stephen King and scary mysteries this formance is Curt Wollan of Troupe performance promises to keep you America, Inc. Wollan is a Minneapolis­enthralled and is a must see. based producer of such national tours as "Driving Miss Daisy," "Steel Magnolias," "Ghost Stories" comes to haunt you on and "Babes in Toyland." Sunday, January 23 at 7:30 p.m. at the 
Moreau Center at Saint Mary's, Tickets 
"Ghost Stories" is set in a creaky for this national touring presentation house swirling with fog. The spooky are $12, with discounts available to stu­effects are heightened with an electronic dents and groups. For more information, drone and splints of shifting colored call the Saint Mary's box office at 284-· Photo Courtesy Mainstage
4626. "Ghost Stories" is based on six haunting dramas written by novelist Stephen King. 
Student Film Festival at the Snite aims to please 
By JOHN CONNORTON Theatre Department. Mandell, Assistant Professional In keeping with the profes­"Not to diminish the efforts of Accent Writer Specialist in the Communication sional nature of the festival, the the Morrissey Film Festival, but These productions were made and Theatre Department. acting was taken as seriously as these films are professional ef­Comparisons to Cannes might in one of the four production "There is more work from the the production of the films. forts." said Mandell. "There are 
be a little premature, but the courses the department teach­advanced classes and the better Although some directors used some very smart films here. 
n 

Student Film Festival at the es; Intro to Film and .Video accomplished, but there is a friends and classmates in their Snite this Friday and Saturday Production, Intermediate wide range of work." films, accomplished actors from Mandell hopes for a large aims to please. Nearly two Motion Picture Production, the Notre Dame Theatre turn-out, an event which would hours in length, the program Professional Video Production, The productions vary widely Department and local commu­be of tremendous benefit to the features a wide collection of and Advanced Film Production in length and quality-from nity volunteers play roles in participants. "Since the produc­short films and videos from the Workshop. thirty seconds to ten minutes these student productions. tions are not judged by us, past two semesters of the long and from 16mm film to there is no award for best pic­FilrnNideo production program "The films are a good selec­Super VHS. "Pretty high end Using an updated file of local ture. It is vital that the directors within the Communication and tion and variety," said Ted stuiT," according to Mandell. actors interested in starring in receive some sort of feedback 
motion pictures, the depart­from the audience. To be ment is able to provide its stu­judged by one's peers will be an dent directors with serious­important experience." minded participants whose motivation is not money, but The fifth annual Student Film exposure. All actors are volun­Festival is this Friday and 
-

teers. Indeed, some of the stu­Saturday at 7:30p.m. and 9:45 dent productions are entered p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art into regional and national com­on the Notre Dame Campus. petitions. Admission is $2. 
.' 




Photo:SpeciaJtotheObserver Michael Scarsella stars in "Cable Ready," directed by juniors Mark 
Trevor Gibney in "Franklin, David" directed by junior Sonia Weber. 
Poisella and Chad Tomasoski. 

~ 
.· II'~ 

page 12 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 20, 1994 

I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I ,..­/ 
-
... 
-
You Are Invited to Attend 

"Winning in the Value-Conscious '90s" 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation 
on the Key to Creating and Leveraging 
Consumer Value 
Featuring 
Mike Milligan Senior Vice President 
Thursday, january 20 
5:30p.m. 

Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Reception  Meet P&G managers from:  
immediately following.  • Finance  
Food and beverages  • Sales  
...  will be served.  • Management Systems  
Dress is casual.  • Product Development  
Students from  • Product Supply  
all majors welcome.  • Brand Management  

~ 

1.0 1.0 
1!1• ·•1!1


JOn '&Gamble 
---------------------~--------------------~----------........--~ 
Thursday, January 20, 1994 The Observer • PRO BASKETBALL page 13 
Kerr, Bulls nip Bullets for 17th win in last 20 games 
Associated Press Bullets 84-83 Wednesday night for their 15th straight home­
Steve Kerr hit a 3-pointer court victory. with 23 seconds left as the Calbert Cheaney, starting in Chicago Bulls rallied from six place of injured Rex Chapman, points down in the final three scored nine points in a 14-4 minutes to beat the Washington Washington run that opened up an 82-76 lead with three min­utes left. Then the Bulls came back. 

Scottie Pippen had a 3-point­er and a jumper to cut the lead to 82-81 with 1:20 left. With the noise increasing in Chicago Stadium, Tom Gugliotta missed one of two free throws with 58 seconds remammg as Washington led 83-81. 
Kerr missed a jumper on the next possession, but the scram­bling Bulls managed to tap the ball back out and retain posses­sion. 
They worked the ball around and this time Kerr hit a 3-point­er from the left corner and was fouled by Gugliotta. Kerr missed the free throw and a chance for a four-point play, but the one-point lead held up for the victory. 
B.J. Armstrong scored 17 and Pippen 15 for the Bulls, who have won 17 of their last 20 games. 
Warriors 120, Hawks 119 Latrell Sprewell's buzzer­beating 3-point shot from the left corner gave the Golden State Warriors their season­high fifth victory in a row 
Wednesday night, a  120-119  
decision  over  the  Atlanta  
Hawks.  

The Hawks, who had their eight-game home winning 

streak snapped, had taken a 119-116 lead with 9.8 seconds remaining on two free throws by Dominique Wilkins, complet­ing a season-high 39-point per­formance. 
Avery Johnson made one of two free throws with three sec­onds to play and the Warriors then regained possession when Wilkins took an inbounds pass on the baseline and bounced it out of bounds for a turnover with 1.7 seconds to play. 
The Warriors found Sprewell, who finished with 25 points, alone in the left corner for the basket that gave Golden State its first victory in Atlanta since a 109-97 decision in 1983. They had lost 10 in a row in Atlanta. 
Nets 112, Timberwolves 91 Derrick Coleman and Kenny Anderson were the catalysts as the New Jersey Nets enjoyed their first three-game winning streak of the season after pounding the Minnesota Tim­berwolves. Coleman scored 24 points and Anderson 16. This victory was due in large part to a 31-7 spurt bridging the second and third quarters. 1t put New Jersey ahead by 24 and Minnesota never got closer than 17 the rest of the way. 
Knicks 120, Spurs 108 Patrick Ewing took advan­tage of the absence of San An­tonio star David Robinson to score 35 points as the New York Knicks won their sixth consecutive game, beating the Spurs. On Monday night, the Spurs, with Robinson missing his first game since injuring his right knee, won their sixth straight game by defeating Washington. But, Wednesday, they had no one to counter Ewing, who also had 16 rebounds. Dale Ellis scored 24 points, Vinny Del Negro had 22 and Dennis Rodman grabbed 20 rebounds for the Spurs. John Starks had 26 points and Rolando Blackman a season­high 19 for the Knicks. Pacers 109, Heat 92 Byron Scott and Reggie Miller each scored 21 points as the Indiana Pacers handed the Miami Heat its sixth straight loss. The Pacers were without two injured starters in Pooh Richardson and Dale Davis, and a top reserve, Vern Fleming, but still had too much firepow­er for the Heat. Derrick McKey added 14 points, and Malik Sealy had 13 and Kenny Williams 11 for In­diana. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Noue Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for ncxt~y dassifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The clurge is 2 cents per cluracter per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
WANTED:  Will pay $$BIG BUCKS$$ for Garth  SUMMER JOBS -ALL  
NOTICES  SAILORS FOR THE SPRING '94 SEASON TO ATTEND THE MEET­ING IN 118 O'SHAG ON THURS  FOR SALE  Brooks Tickets. Call Sarah at 113818.  LANDtWATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Qual~ Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP  
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard  JAN 20 AT 7 p.m.  IMMACULATE 3 BDRM CAPECOD 4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  PERSONAL  NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­786.a373  LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  
'233-2342 /10-6M-Sat 9-3 Sun  BULLA RD.$64,500.272·6306  
****SPRING BREAK '94­ Thank you Garth Brooks for making  Spring Break Bahamas Party  4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in  
ILOST & FOUND I  cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREE! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL  SPECIALIZED ROCKHOPPER, 18', SCOTT AT-4 HANDLEBARS, NEW SHIMANO DX HEADSET  my dreams come true... see you soon backstage. love, Kevin Janicki ATTENTION SAILORS  Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 1-800-678-6386  Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Med/legal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob  
(800)328-7283.  AND PEDALS, NEW SHIMANO  Sail Away to 118 O'Shag on  Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica!  1 .a00-864-8385.  
LOST: Grey metal double cross  CARTRIDGE BOTTOM BRACKET  Thursday January 20 at 7 p.m. for  Fly out of Chicago and spend 8  
earring between 2nd floor PW and North Dining Hall on 1/14. Call Bridget at 4-2965 if you found it  CRUISE SHIPS HIRING • Eam up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or  AND HYPERGLIDE CHAIN, 399.99, CALL BILL 684-5911.  the planning meeting of the Spring '94 season!! ALL SAILORS PLEASE ATTEND  days on the beach! We have the best trips & prices! Includes air & hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­ We love you, Nina! Jill, Molly, and Susan  
Land-Tour companies. World travel.  678-6386  
I lost a silver chin w~h a cross walking from RoaHs to Alumni in the snow. If you find ~ I would really appreciate it Wyou would call me.  Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584  EPSON electronic typewriter for 100$. Call Laszlo x4486 KENMORE FRIDGE 2.5 cubic ft. Active warranty. 634-4902  POP FARLEY WEEK 1994!!!! TODAY! SUMMER JOB FAIR -1  Spring Break! Panama C~! 8 days oceanview room with k~chen $1191 Walk to best bars! lndudes free dis- HEY!! A guitarist and drummer are looking for a bassist and guitarist to form a really brutal band. Experience and equipment are a must!  
Todd 111251  to 5 p.m. -JACC MONOGRAM  count card -save $50 on cover  If interested, call Rob at x4330  
CAMP THUNDERBIRD  ROOM • Bring copies of your  charges! 1-800-678-6386  Thanks!  
Camp Counselors Needed  386/20 IBM Compatible with SVGA  resume.  
LOST: EYEGLASSES IN TAN CASE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL AMY X4966  Resident Summer Camp for Developmentally Disabled Children & Adults.  Color monitor, 24-Pin Color Printer, 2400 Baud Modem, 80MB Hard Drive, Dual Roppies, Math  JPWwknd confrmd reservation  Florida's New Spring Break hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key  Interested in the Merengue, Samba, Tango, and Fox Trot? Try the  ..  
June 18-Aug 26  Coprocessor. Great Buy at $1100 or best offer. Call 634-4732 for  @Jamison Inn avail. for trade for cnfrmd hotel res. Stanford wknd,  West! More upscale than Panama City/Daytona! Great beaches &  ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club! We meet Thursdays from  
$$$$ REWARD$$$$ For the return of my dark green long winter coat ! tt disappeared from Club 23  Orlando, FL area 1-407-889-8088 $700/Wk. canneries; $4500/mo.  details or leave message. GARTH BROOKS TICKETS FOR SALE!! Gall 273-6548 and leave a mes­ Sep29-0ct1 call Pau11-800·538­9363-(xt)5128 ***'***************"'******  nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa Beachfront Resort $1591 Key West $249! 1-800-678-6386 SOPHOMORES!!! I  8:00-9:30 at the Stepan Center, starting this Thursday. All levels are welcome. Ques? Call Laurie 4-3490, Karen 4-2110, or Daniella 284-4061.  
last Friday. Please help me.  deckhands. Alaska summer fish­ sage~ your offer and how many  YOU NEED A KNOTT ANGEL TO  
I'm very coldl Call Kate x-1564  eries now hiring. Employment Alaska 1-206-323-2672  tickets you need!  SHOW YOU WHAT LUCK IS ALL ABOUT- Form tum-In for Sophomore Sibs Weekend is Jan. 31 in the Sorin  Student Activities is now hiring for  ..,  
No ?'s asked.  KNOTT HALL'S CASINO NIGHT  Room from 3-6:30 p.m.  this semester:  
Help! I need a ride to Cleveland, Ohio (or all the way to Erie, Pa n  TICKETS  JAN. 28"* ..............................  Don't miss out on the opportun~ to  1 Ballroom Mon~or 1 Building Set Up Crew  
FOUND: YELLOW CASIO DIGITAL  you are going that far) the weekend  share Notre Dame with your sib.  
WATCH IN LOT Cl ON 1/17. CALL 287-5457 & IDENTIFY.  of Jan. 28. Very friendly, $$for gas, tolls, etc. Call Brian x3043  ********** FOR SALE ****"'"**'**'** SIX GARTH BROOKS TICKETS  All monies, forms, etc. should be  and for the 94-95 academic year: 4 Sound Techs  
All tickets are together for the  Wanted:  students interested In  turned in at that time.  (to be trained this semester)  
Sunday, February 13 show.  easy volunteer work located In a  
LOST: several keys on a round United States Senate key chain. One of the keys is a big black Honda key. Another is a blue key.  FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225.  Call4-1337 with your best offer!! AJ;Jc AAA"*****"**Alii*"'******************* WANTED: One student ticket for  nice study enviornment. To become an operator for COUNSELINE 2hrs/Wk, call Sarah x3846  SOPHOMORES!!! JPW escape is Feb. 18-20 but tix go on sale starting Jan. 17. Sales  APPLY NOW AT 315LAFOR­TUNE! THE ALUMNI ARE COMING!!!  .....  
Please call Joe at 234-6306 with  MO. & ROOMS AT$190. MO.  ND basketball game Monday (Jan.  *A UI&UAUAAAUAAAAAA  are from 3-5 on M & Wand from 6­ 
any Information.  AVAIL NOW. 272-6306  24) for vis~ing friend. Please  8 on Tu and Th.  THE ALUMNI ARE COMING!!!  
call/leave message for Brendan.  Alumni Awareness Week  
WANTED GOOD OPPORTUNITY FOR GRAD STUDENT SPOUSE Professional couple seeks mature, responsible  SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6 BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306  Phone 631-8839 or 2n-4847 any­time. I need 4 tix. 4 CARROT TOP X1646-Toby  Look here for Scavenger Hunt Clues next week. Coming soon: Say HELLO Campaign  Only $50 gets hotel, trans. and tick­et to Phantom or 2nd C~. First-come first-served. Supplies are lim~ed.  Alumni Awareness Week January 24 -28th Open House at the Alumni Office Monday from 1-Spm Escape from the cold and enjoy hot chocolate and snacks.  
person to care for newborn in our home about 40 hrs/Wk. Must be non-smoker, provide 3 references, have own transportation. Pos~ion available end of March/beginning of April. Send personal info to: "Chlldcare Provider" c/o 6910 N. Gumwood Ad, Un~ 1 Box 14, Granger, IN 46530.  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 2322595 1 Bedroom In 3BR house for rent. Great rent 1 blk fm Angela & Portage-1138 Blaine St. Avail immediate. 289-3234.  ........................................ ***"'*"'******" NEED 2 TIX FOR GARTH BROOKS ON SAT, FEB 12. CALL X4020. **""**********************"*"********'  Casual Career Night Come meet the Alumni Board of Directors and enjoy some pizza. Details for events will be posted-Alumni Awareness Week ............ ***************  WHAT ARE YOU DOING WITH THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE THIS WEEKEND? Swilling Warm, Bad BEER with 40 of your dosest buddies? Have some class. Get culture w~h Steds Hall Players BRIGHTON BEACH MEMIORS @8PM tonight, Jan 20, 21,22 Washington Hall. TICkets $4 at Lafortune Box OffiCe.  how's the trust fund doing, Tim? twelve pennies have quite a potential earning power now he gets uglier every day (see, ~ could have been worse) Happy Birthday Hudds!!!!!!! Finally of age!!  --:::.  

-----­ -­ --~-------------------­ - - 
r  
r  
I  
I I  page 14  The Observer • BASEBALL  Thursday, January 20, 1993  
Owners and players come to terms on playoff format  

By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 
Baseball owners and players reached a tentative agreement today on expanded playoffs­which would make official the three-division format. Owners, however, failed to vote on a 

Owners had resisted the play­ers' proposal, but decided today not to fight it. "The players had no incentive to come to a fast deal," said Richard Ravitch, management's labor negotiator. "This negotiation would have stretched out for months on end." 
Last September, owners ap­ticket money on the first three games of the new best-of-5 round of playoffs. 
Currently, players get 60 per­cent of the money from the first four games of each League Championship Series and the World Series. 
Ravitch said that based on an average ticket price of $20, the additional round would produce about $9.6 million in additional revenue for the players. Owners had offered 60 percent of the ticket money from the first three games of each new series. No vote on a commissioner was taken at today's major league meeting. 
Owners, who have been with­out a commissioner since Fay Vincent's forced resignation on Sept. 7, 1992, have been under pressure from congressmen to elect a successor. 
"We're probably going to take some heat on that," Toronto Blue Jays chairman Peter Widdrington said. 



•••CONSIDERATIONS 
for new and glorious life. 
Revenge is not a Christian Virtue 
How many times have we prayed for an end to violence in places like When we hold on to bitter thoughts, when we feel the strong need to get even Northern Ireland and Lebanon and the former Yugoslavia? How sad does it with someone who has hurt us, we are not free. We remain trapped in our make us feel to look at endless conflict and see little hope for healing and for pain. Our only hope then is to forgive. peace? How strange is it to watch vicious attack and counter-attack again and again, and to realize that very often these attacks are carried out by people My student friend wanted to forgive, but I didn't have much advice on how. 
who consider themselves religious, people who proclaim themselves Try to understand the other I said. See him as a person with troubles and Christians, the followers ofJesus, the Crucified Christ? confusions and pains of his own I said. See him as a victim of his difficult past I said, and maybe it will help. 
Not too long ago a student asked me whether it is really possible to forgive someone who has hurt us deeply and told us lies. She said suppose some A wise man in the counseling center says "hurt people hurt people." He means people become friends, and slowly, slowly, those people draw closer and closer that most people who treat us badly, or seem incapable of trust, have likely to one another. They think they are in love. They talk about it. They make had a pretty rough past of their own. They were abused, so now they abuse. plans for the future. Suppose one day one of the parties finds out the other has They were hurt, so now they hurt. been unfaithful, and has another friend "on the side." Several months of 
promises turn out to be lies. Actions and words just don't match up. A Somehow forgiveness must cut this cycle. Otherwise we all just carry the dark confrontation ensues, bitter words are exchanged, and two lives go their spirit to our next encounter, and poison our future. Somehow our faith must separate ways. carry us beyond the commands of common sense and free us to live a new life. 
Otherwise we are left only with revenge, and the Hatfields and McCoys, the "How can a person forgive?" she asked. "When I see him out somewhere I just troubles of Ireland, the destruction of Beirut, and the rape of Bosnia­want to go up to his friends and tell them what a liar he is. I want him to Herzogovinia. 
suffer," she said. "He hurt me so much." 

There's enough hurt in the world already without you and I adding any morl!. As we sat together, I thought to myself that there is surely plenty of "hurt" in the world. People shiver in the bitter cold, hospitals and highways collapse Tom McDermott, C.S.C. under seismic stress, tornadoes seem to relentlessly attack trailer parks. That much maybe we can blame on God. But there is so much more that we do to bring hurt to each other as well. We tell lies. We judge each other rashly. We 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS 
drive drunk and kill the innocent. We step on the poor and the weak to get 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA
ahead and make a buck.  
And sometimes, when we feel ourselves the victim of injustice or abuse, when  Sat. January 22  5:00p.m.  Rev. Stephen Newton, C.S.C.  
we are on the receiving end of "hurt," we want revenge.  Sun. January 23  10:00 a.m. ·  Rev. Claude Grou, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C.  
Revenge is common sense. It's logical to want someone to pay for the crimes  
they have committed, so they will learn and change their ways. We believe  
that punishment for crimes is a deterrent to future crimes, a warning to others  
not to behave in a similarly evil way. And the knowledge that someone is  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR
punished for a crime perhaps makes us feel a little better, sleep a little easier, so that a tragedy is just a little more logical, a little less difficult to understand. 
THIS COMING SUNDAY 
The trouble is that if common sense was enough to save the world, Jesus wouldn't have had to die on the cross. 
1ST READING Jonah 3: 1.-5, 10 2ND READING 1Corinthians 7: 29.-31
"Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." In the midst of all his pain, Jesus opened his arms on the cross and took in all 
GosPEL Mark 1: 14... 20 
the hurt. He captured all the hate, swallowed all the insult, forgave the misguided persecutors. He broke the cycle of darkness and made his spirit free 
,-------~----~---~--------·---~--~---..,.---------------~---~-------­
Thursday, January 20, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
Harding's ex-husband charged in Kerrigan attack 

By STEVE WILSTEIN Games in Norway next month if ever. Harding issued a state­Associated Press she is involved in the Jan. 6 ment saying she was separating attack on Kerrigan. again from Gillooly. PORTLAND, Ore. Authorities have not cleared Tonya Harding's ex-husband Harding, the U.S. figure skating Gillooly, who has denied in­
was charged with conspiring to champion, of possible criminal volvement, surrendered at the injure Olympic rival Nancy charges in the case. FBI office in Portland shortly Kerrigan, and documents re­after the warrant was issued. leased today revealed testimony "We are continuing to in­The affidavit released today linking Harding for the first vestigate it," assistant district also said that Kerrigan was de­time to the alleged plot. attorney John Bradley said. liberatley hit on the right leg 
"The feds will continue, and my because it was her landing leg Jeff Gillooly faces the same guess is the people from for jumps. 
conspiracy charge under which Michigan will continue to in­Gillooly, 26, was named in a Harding's bodyguard and two vestigate it." Despite their warrant issued Tuesday by Cir­other men have been arrested. divorce in August, Gillooly was cuit Judge Donald Londer. The Harding has not been charged living with Harding at the. time warrant was unsealed today, and denies any involvement. of the attack on Kerrigan. hou.rs after Harding's meeting 
U.S. Olympic officials said During 10 1/2 hours of ques­with authorities. 
Harding could be dropped from tioning on Tuesday with law An affidavit from a sherifrs the team going to the Winter enforcement authorities, how-deputy. released with the arrest 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL 
Players 
~ 

BRIGHTON BEACH MEMOIRS 



THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY JANUARY 20, 21, 22 8:00PM WASHINGTON HALL 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Box Office $4.00 
ATTENTION GRADUATE STUDENTS INTELLECTUAL LIFE COMMITTEE of the GRADUATE STUDENT UNION presents Thursday, Jan. 20 Room 120 ,..., DeBartolo 
II DOING RESEARCH IN RN ELECTRONIc ENU IRONMENT 11 7PM 
& 
liTHE NEW INSTRUCTon•s GUIDE TO THE L I BRRRY II 8:15PM 
warrant, said Harding's body­ever questioned about them, guard, Shawn Eric Eckardt, she would say she had made signed a confession admitting those calls in an effort to get his role in the conspiracy. Kerrigan to sign a poster for a 
According to the affidavit from fan of Harding's," the affidavit Multnomah County Deputy states. Dennis Rawlinson, an James McNelly, Eckardt said attorney for Harding, today Gillooly told him Harding made again denied that his client was two telephone calls to the Tony involved in the conspiracy. Kent Arena near Boston to try "Tonya categorically denies to determine those allegations," Rawlinson 
Kerrigan's practice schedule. said of the statements at­Eckardt's affidavit said the tributed to Eckardt. "We note alleged hit man, Shane that none of the comments are Minoaka Stant, stalked directly attributable to Tonya. Kerrigan in Boston before car­We believe Mr. Eckardt's lack rying out the attack in Detroit. of credibility is already well­
documented." 
"Eckardt also said Gillooly U.S. Olympic Committee told him that Harding was con­spokesman Mike Moran said cerned about having made the committee was awaiting these phone calls and had stat­more information in the Hard­ed that in the event she was ing case. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
. RecSports is offering cam,eus racquetball doubles, interhall team racquetball, campus c()'~rec f~lleyball and grad/fac/staf volleyball. Deadline is Thursday, Jan. 20th. Captains' meeting for both volleyball leagues is at 5pm and team racquetball at 5:30 pm all in the JACCauditorium; ~ursday, Jan 20,t\f};~: •·· .. ""'¥. 
RecSports is having a soccer officials meeting at the JACC Auditorium at 5:30 p.m. on January 27th. All interested officials please attend. :,;0· ,,; ,;;;f;;0£¥; • >0' :f~c: .... ·..· 
The Sailing Club will havea meetingYThi.Irsday, January 20 at 7 pm in 118 O'Shag. All'sailors please attend. Questions, please call Patrice at2~.4-5238~.> . . . · .,;.. 
Late Night Olympics Raffiet4-Purchase raffia tickets from your LNO Hall representative or come by the RecSports office. There willbe over 200 prizes give~ away. Ji~kets are 2 for $1 and all 
proce'ed go to benefit Sj)eciru Oiympies1#'·,~'·i>~£iN! 
Late NightOiympics VIIL.:~come be a paitof the fun at this 8th annual all-night sports · 'avaga,nZa; Thefun begins at 8:00 pm .on Friday; January·2 Lproceeds frolll this event ·go to benefit Special Olympics. J\ ..... onation is requested at the door; Slam Dun~ .~of!~! st. ~f>!ie by to Late Night Olympics on Friday, Januacy'2t iuld take part in tb.e Slam Dunk Contest. Sign­ups w_ill be'ta,ken .Friday between 8pm to;:10:30 pm in the RecSports offif~· D~ng w_ill ~gin at 11:00 pfi4 Rims will be at 8 ft J~t women and ? ftJor'Jrien. ~ F,or more' information. call RecSports af631-6100. A$t'Cionation ~~equested ~t the door.·•;, Late Night Olympics Open,_Skate from lO:oo pm to midnight on }l'riday,,Janq~ry:Z!l!o;{flli:'~bst of skat~.r ··.····· ·· ~ -~:$1 and all 
rental fees ~ b~f donated callRecSwr.~;at631~lOO.  ·  ··  pecial ()ljmp · ••: ·ki:,iil;i./  For more info, .. ·j;;  
. Cros~Cou:n rySki.!\2..  .~~f~~Y~}&Jl ary'22at 2,:00ppt  
atNoJ}~P.... men"t::ten '·  ...  olf~ur·.. · dlUonal  . te'iS)i.$5.00_'chargewith equip­2~,.Weai"Jayered clothes and warm  

gloy~s.• Register at"t.he RecSports ln advance~,,-Deadline for signups is Wedltesday;,January·t9~· call RecSp(>rts at 631-6100. 
ND.;~rew:Al!sweat,shirts will beavailable to pick up on Friday, J!Lilu~rY ..•~J~!~4 (!9 ' ·6·p~nj'.Jntbe.!Jadin,Hall TVJounge. Swea~hirtS ~~pi ' ·· hi$•. weekend.willpe sold. Question~­contact Jan Moiney • Please do not contact Badin Hall. · . 
'·, ' ' 

The Third Annual Breen-Phillips Hall 

-

Wednesday, February 9, 1994 La Fortune Ballroom 
7 pm to 2 am 
@ Starring Judy Hutchinson 0 
Pick up sposor sheets outside the rector's door in Breen-Phillips Hall. Call x1318 with questions. 
All proceeds go to the Catholic Worker House 
.---~------~---~--~-~-~~ ~~-~-~ ~ 
Thursday, January 20, 1994

page 16 The Observer • AFC CHAMPIONSHIP 
Fina, Bills used to K.C. has Super love for Montana 
By DOUG TUCKER to lose their fourth. River Falls, Wis.• to pitch camp
• 

''I've had a lot of calls from in July, a huge billboard greet­
Associated Press 

people wishing me luck," said ed the players proclaiming. KANSAS CITY. Mo. Montana. who has padded his "Welcome Joe Montana," and By JOHN F. BONFAITI hands. As the whole town falls legend the past two weeks by then. in much smaller letters, 
Associated Press ''I'm pretty proud of that," deeper and deeper in love, you leading the Chiefs to come­almost as an afterthought, it he said. "That's not to say I wonder when starry-eyed fans from-behind playoff victories continued, "and the Kansas ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. haven't given up any sacks; I will decide to rename their over Pittsburgh and Houston. City Chiefs." 
Mention ESPN draft analyst think I've given up two this team the Kansas City Mon­
Amazingly, however, there Mel Kiper, Jr. to John Fina of year. But I'm proud of no hold­tanas. has not been any apparent the Buffalo Bills and watch the ings or anything like that." The Kansas City Chiefs breakdown in team morale. If 
offensive tackle seethe. Fina found himself in a diffi­anybody's jealous, they do not 
getting no respect 
scraped and stumbled and fum­
cult situation at the start of the bled for 20 years without ever show it. Montana may have ex­
season. He was penciled into getting past the wild-card ecuted his niftiest plays this 
the starting lineup after the round. season far from the public's Bills lost All-Pro tackle Will The Kansas City Montanas admiring eye, convincing his Wolford. who signed with the are just one game away from teammates he is just an ordi­Indianapolis Colts as a free the Super Bowl. nary Joe. agent. The Kansas City Chiefs, for "I addressed that the first 
Media and fans hounded him longer than they care to re­day of minicamp, and I touched with the same question: Could member, were insignificant "There seems to be a lot of on it on the opening day of he replace Wolford? also-rans who went eight em" support, and I appreciate that." training camp," coach Marty "I did get sick and tired of ,b~rrassihg years without get­Known in these parts as Schottenheimer said. "I have 
the media at the start of the ting invited to play on Monday Montana Mania, the phe­not mentioned it since. It hasn't 
Fin a hasn't forgotten that season," Fina said. "Their ap­·night. nomenon took root last spring been necessary." Kiper called Buffalo's selection proach -and it is their job -The Kansas City Montanas the minute the Chiefs pried of him the worst first-round was 'Can you do it?' Well, the are the toast of the league. And Montana, his mystique and his It was evident that he doesn't pick in the 1992 draft. Those question has to answer itself. I in Sunday's AFC title game four Super Bowl rings away particularly care to be in the comments will be in the back of can't say. 'Yes' because I had­they're probably the sentimen­from the reluctant San Fran­limelight." his mind Sunday when the Bills n't taken a snap." tal favorite of fans nationwide cisco 49ers. "Maybe initially there might meet the Kansas City Chiefs in who would rather see Joe Even before training camp have been {some resentment). 
the AFC Championship game. Fina said he thinks some fans Montana make a run at win­began, it became a potential But at this point, they all un­"That has been somewhat of and media were expecting him ning his fifth Super Bowl than problem. derstand the way things take a motivation for me, coming out -and the Bills -to fail. watch the Buffalo Bills try not As the Chiefs' bus rolled into place," Montana said. to do my best to counter what Mel said," Fina acknowledged. "That was one of the happiest days of my life and here's a guy who obviously didn't do his homework -and at my expense. "Selling me out the way he did was uncalled for and un­warranted. And, with the re­cent developments of this sea­son, I think wrong." Kiper isn't ready to concede he was wrong. "When John's playing in the Pro Bowl, then he can talk," he said. "Until then, he should keep his mouth shut." Still. several players taken before Fina -including Heis­man Trophy winner Desmond Howard -haven't made the contributions to their teams that Fina has to the Bills. Thrust into the starting line­




CAMPUS VIEW
up at the pivotal left offensive tackle position, Fina has start­ed all 17 games and "has done an outstanding job at a tough position," coach Man Levy said. 


APARTMENTS
According to Levy,, if Fin a "hadn't come through as he has, we'd be hurting pretty 

9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases 
bad." 
Amazingly for a second-year player in his first year as a starter, Fin~ went through the 

FURNISHED APARTMENTS, 
season without being called for 
either holding or illegal use of 

..... 
ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR 
Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. 
NORTH PADRE/MUSTANG ISLAND 

Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry.
-
1-----F•L•O•R•I•D•A-----i 
DA YTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH ORLANDO/WALT DISNEY WORLD 

STUDENT ACCOMMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. 
1----C•O•L•O•R•A•D•O -------i 
STEAMBOAT VAIUBEAVER CREEK 

WE TAKE SECURITY AND SAFETY SERIOUSLY. 
BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
1------N•E•V•A•D•A-----i 

Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff 
LAS VEGAS 
C•A•R•O•L•.I•I'I••A----1 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 

Call Dorene NOW 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CALL TOLL FREE FOR FULL DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 

1•BOO •SUNCHASE 

272--1441 




Thursday, January 20, 1994 The Observer • NFC CHAMPIONSHIP page 17 
Dallas loss crucial to 49ers' season 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS "We walked away from it feel-Associated Press ing bad, but not out, because we realized that hey, '(Dallas) is SANTA CLARA, Calif. the best football team out When Jerry Rice talks about a there," 49ers safety Tim 
turning point for the San McDonald said. 
Francisco 49ers, he looks to an October loss to Dallas. That game, more than any other., produced the turnaround that has landed the 49ers in Sun­day's NFC championship against the Cowboys. 
"This team has grown up a lot since then," Rice said. "Guys had to put egos and pride aside and did what was best for the 

team." 
Dallas. a 30-20 winner over· "For the most part in that San Francisco in last year's title game, we held our own. We game, beat the 49ers again 26-made a few key mistakes that. 17 on Oct. '17.' Even though the cost us the ball game. We wer~ 
defeat dropped the 49ers to 3-saying, 'Hey, we clean this up, 3, they emerged feeling the re­there's no telling how far we sult could have been different can go.'" but for a couple of turnovers. The next week, the 49ers beat 

to the ND/SMC Sailing Club meeting to plan the Spring '94 season 
Thursday, January 20 at 7:00p.m. in 118 O'Shag 
7///sailors please a/lend 
Phoenix 28-14 to ignite a six­game winning streak during which San Francisco came from two games down to overtake the New Orleans Saints in the NFC West. 
They clinched the division with a 55-17 victory at Detroit on Dec. 19, lost their lost last two regular season games, and advanced to the championship rematch with a 44-3 victory over the New York Giants last weekend. 
San Francisco tight end Brent Jones said the loss to Dallas paved the way for the 49ers resurgence. 
"It allowed some of the younger guys to realize they can play with the best." Jones said. 
, The Dallas game also was a defensive milestone, marking a change in the basic scheme from a 3-4 alignment plus a pass-rushing "elephant" line­backer to the so-called "buffa­lo" defense, a 4-3 alignment. 
Defensive tackle Ted Wash­ington replaced rookie Todd Kelly, who had struggled, and nose tackle Dana Stubblefield shifted from the center to the left side. 
"After that Dallas game, we thought, 'Yeah, maybe we can play some defense," San Francisco linebacker Mike Wal­ter said. 
Turnovers proved to be the undoing of the 49ers in that game, just as they were in last year's title game, when San Francisco gave away the ball four times. 

Irvin set for tnatch­up with Rice, 49ers 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 

Michael Irvin excels in big games against teams that have big-time receivers. 

It's the competition that brings out the best in the Dallas Cowboys wide receiver, who has neither the fastest feet nor the best pair of hands among the NFL's premium pass catchers. 
"The best thing about Irvin is that he's a competitor," Dallas quarterback Troy Aikman said. "He's not the fastest nor the most athletic, but he has a tremendous will when the ball is in the air. 
"He uses his size well and is very aggressive at the point of the catch. He always makes the tough play. And he never shies from con tact." In October, Irvin had 12 catches for 168 yards against the San Francisco 49ers. That same day, Jerry Rice caught 7 pass­es for 82 yards for the 49ers. 
A week earlier, Irvin caught 
7 passes for 1.55 yards in a 
game against Green Bay 
where Sterling Sharpe caught 
4 for 34 yards. In the NFC divi­
sional playoffs, Irvin caught 9 
passes for 126 yards while 
Sharpe had 6 catches for 128 
yards. 
"I get compared to those 
guys a lot so it's natural to get 
up for those games," Irvin 
said. "If feels good to get rec­
ognized by your peers. That's 
why making the Pro Bowl is so 
important with your peers vot­
ing on it." 
Irvin's three-year total o{ 
4,249 yards is the second high. 
est in that period of time in 
NFL history behind Rice's 
4,291 yards from 1988-1990. 
Irvin said the NFC title game 
in Texas Stadium Sunday 
won't be a Rice vs. Irvin game. 
"I have all the motivation I · need," Irvin said. "Jerry Rice 
is the best receiver ever to 
play the game. But it's not me 
and Jerry on Sunday. It's the 
Cowboys and the 49ers." 
"He's a tremendous com­
petitor and loves to play in the 
big game," said Cowboys 
coach Jimmy Johnson. "He 
has a tremendous confidence 
in his abilities. 
"He's a guy who in the 10 
years that I've been with him 
has improved every single 
year. I thought the first year 
that I saw him that he was 
outstanding." 

"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL~ REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
TTE 
N H 
·­
... 


-~­

--~~----­
Thursday, January 20, 1994 

-
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. 
For once in his life Duncan 
Kennedy didn't let things slide. 
He still looks the same as 
when he fmished a disappoint­
ing 10th in the luge at the 1992 
Winter Olympics: Short hair. 
Earring. Self-designed luge tat­
too on the left shoulder. , 
And yet Kennedy is a different 
man since that October night in 

The Observer • SPORTS page 18 
Jordan top athlete for third time 

Such· weighty issues are the 
antithesis of the reputation 
that Kennedy bas lugged 
around throughout his compet­
itiye career-that of being too 
relaxed, too passive. 
, He has spent mQ~t of_the past ··'14 years trying to master a sport that has_befuddll}d .U.S,
0
sliders in the 0l,Ympics. His 1992 finish at Albertvill~<was the highest ever ,!Qr an ~eri­
Oberhof, Germany, when,~~ ~~<;a? m~le, buta.,~uge<i}s~p­group of skinheads outside''&·· pomtment forK~Imedy. ,who bar jarred him from his devil-,L entered, the Carnes ll$ tq~.~-9··..2 may-care attitude. ·~slider in the world~;1 :,J.;'·; 
"I was really .angry. It w~ a o::.w<:;:The past twn.jP,lympic,;s,,es.­very scary thmg," he said., p~cially }992.::.:were a rl'al 'Tve never been shaking that '}earning experieJ?.ce," said the hard physically in my life.•• 26-:Year-old Kennedy, :who fin­
::itill, Kennec)y-~allQwec!;,h :b.~<i1J~~4!1l C~lg!;!fY ..~.J .. fears and stood up to the neo-·:--1~-~~s a:r.~alrbarqy~ay Nazis .to prote<;~;his,bJack :~l~~tn:~)~s~-~1l·~tJt l ~Jd~and teamniate~-Roberf Pipkins. fhopefully l{can''il.PPlYh~hat%1 Kennedy was beaten up. then .·" !earned,,to ,L~4. I'J:A g~ing to. be had the courage to return Jo ~'a lot more aggressivert.qi& time the bar and Jde~tify three o •..· and approach do his'assailant8~*"4"'· '"'ifU ·•.• rldCup 
"It's had a huge e1Tect on me," _ :,'TheJast nh11Y1r>i,.., Kennedy said before leaving. Yt~lld'Jt }Vas Iike~;~~W4lwitrwheJre for the Lillehammer Olympics. am I?~ I . 
"I don'lthinkit's helped me'~ ,Y;thjnk.J,;_IQ,.a·.-.~-~~-'"'" ,__ •_ _. an athlete. But. it's defmitely little out .·e'lf_~_n1en1; helped me·· as' a person~ There f~)V&S d~b. P~a~~ ·I.: 
are a lot of things I care about. -·in my~eleJilenti\.1' but I don't really hil.ve any par-li::!ealize it ticular stand. Now, all of.a sud-' Luge h ·. e~ den. I've been thrust into this ptent since ~etookupthe sport position of taking responsibility 'ruler the closing ceremonies of for educating people, hopefully the 1280 Lake Games. 
I 
I 
I 
SAVINGS OF 50%-80% OFF ORIGINAL PRICES 
By BILL BARNARD 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Even after retirement, Michael Jordan is setting records. Jordan became the first three­time wilmer of The Associated Press Male Athlete of the Year award, voted the honor for the third consecutive year. 
Tennis player Don Budge in 1937-38, golfer Byron Nelson in 1944-45, pitcher Sandy Koufax in 1963 and 1965, sprinter Carl Lewis in 1983-84 and quarter­back Joe Montana in 1989-90 were the other double winners of the AP award. which started in 1931. 
Jordan received 28 of 71 first-place votes in the media poll; which included three ath­letes on each ·ballot, with points ·awarded on a 5-3-1 basis. The Chicago Bulls star earned 172 points overall, compared to 95 points for San Francisco Giants star Barry Bonds, who had 11 first-place votes. 
Other top vote-getters. with their first-place votes and points, were quarterback Troy Aikman (5,41); hockey star Mario Lemieux (5,41); football's Emmitt Smith (3,41); Heisman Trophy winner Charlie Ward (2,37); race car driver Dale Earnhardt (2,26); boxer Evan­der Holyfield (1,23); World Se­ries hero Joe Carter (3,18); pitcher Greg Maddux (2,11); and NBA Rookie of the Year Shaquille O'Neal (1,11). 
Also getting one first place vote were basketball's Charles Barkley, race driver Nigel Mansell. baseball's Paul Moli­tor. quarterback Steve Young. soccer goalie Tony Meola, catcher Mike Piazza, car racer Rusty Wallace and football's Rod Woodson. 
Ironically, Jordan got far more support for Athlete of the Year than Barkley. 
who outpolled Jordan for NBA Most Valuable Player. a regu­lar-season honor. Jordan was also a three-time MVP choice. 
Jordan's shocking retire·­ment on Oct. 6 came after he led Chicago to its third consecu­tive NBA title in June. 
The announcement left the NBA without its biggest name and drawing card. At the same time. it left at least a half-dozen teams believing they could suc­ceed Chicago as the NBA's best. 
''I've reached the pinnacle of my career," Jordan said before a huge gathering of media at the Bulls practice facility. "I feel that I don't have any­thing else for myself to prove." 
The 1993 playoffs started af­ter Jordan won his seventh straight scoring title with a 32.6 average. Barkley averaged 25.6 points and 12.2 rebounds in leading the Suns to an NBA­best 62 regular-season victo­ries. 

This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Thursday, January 20 
Notre Dame Women's Basketball 
vs. Evansville 7:30pm JACC Arena 

Friday, January 21 Notre Dame Swimming vs. Cleveland State 3:30pm Rolfs Aquatic Center 
~ 


· b alanyone'sadverlisedpriceon 
SliCi. QiW.~~i:R 
We wtll me.el or e I 30 days after your purchase. • ~ the same tler:n up 0 rtce we will cheerfully 
re~~~~~~~:k~~~~~IT~'ST~HE~JAN~UA~~~CL~EA~~N~CE~SA~LE~~~THE~SH~OE~CA~RN~I~~L 

LA 
GEAR' 
HUMBOLT HIKER MENS LEATHER HIKER ASSORTED COLORS. COMPARE AT $48. OUR REG. $29.97. 
TAR COURT LE 
MENS COURT SHOE. BLACK/TEAL TRIM. COMPARE AT $75. OUR REG. $49.97. 
MISHAWAKA: INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA, 5924 GRAPE RD. 219-273-6097 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­ 
Thursday, January 20, 1994  The Observer • TODAY  page 19  
SPELUNKER  JAYH?SLER  THE FAR SIDE  GARY LARSON  ·­ 


orrtfl2.. CoU) SNAP CASlJ.ifC 
BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
-o 
•

.~. 




CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Lew Wallace's && Lady's "Ben--" alternative? 
1 Paint layer 36 Word before &7 Kind of log s Best of old films 
mother or lively 68 Hammer part 9 Plays at Pebble 
37 1975 Clavell &9 1941 BogartBeach 

best seller role 14 Greengrocer's 
38 Slack-jawed 10 Sedimentpods 40 Hoover, e.g. 71 Ocean flyer 15 Controversial 42 Clean, as a70's sitcom computer disk 

16 Lit DOWN 
43 Beaverlike fur 17 Menu appetizer 1 Egyptian 45 Collars 

20 Titter church member 
47 Herbal soother 

21 Bambi and kin 2 "The Grapes of 
48 Menu side order 
Wrath" worker 50 Carrel

22 Hints at the pool 
table? 3 Foot part 51 G-men
23 -fixe 4 Provide lodging 52 Mr. Carnegie for
25 Ta-ta in Turin 54 Mystery dog 5 Vane dir. 
27 Hollywood's Barbara or 57 Hacker, e.g. & Walked unevenly Conrad 59 Revises 7 Scruff 30 Menu entree &3 Menu dessert &Each 9 Dentist's anesthetic ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Risque 11 Stead 12 Parole 13 Televisions 32 Type size for 49 Classic 56 Roman get-up 18 Calculator fine print Montaigne work ss Needle case of1580

display: Abbr. 33 Ponders 
60 Sunny vacation 19 Crossword 34 Underhanded so Dock spot diagrams fellow 
53 The M-G-M lion 61 Ruler until1917 24 Newt 36 View from the 

..
54 Book alter John &2 Basted

26 Pines Quai d'Orsay 64 Vein find 
27 Hallucinogenic 39 Introduced ss Lollipop was a "good" one &5 Ran into
drink 41 Barbara with 28 Bode two sisters 29 Seething 44 "Straight Up" 
Get answers to any three clues

singer Paula 31 Toothpaste 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

once advertised 46 Youth grp. 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

by Grace Kelly founded in 1910 

Pressure surrounds them. Competition divides them.
The Maltese Falcon 
Glory unites them. 
Staring Humphrey Bogart 
The Program 
... 
' 

Showing at 8pm and 10:30 pm 
Playing Friday and Saturday January 21 and 22 Montgomery Theater in 
In the Cushing Auditorium ~ At 8 pm and 10:30 pm Admission $2 .....],W
Lafortune Student Center Admission $1 



SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, January 20, 1994 
Second-half surge leads St. Bonaventure over IriSh 
Bonnies win for second-straight year 

By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
They plugged up the leaks, but they 
couldn't stop Notre Dame's ship from 
sinking. 
A leaky roof delayed the start of the second half for nearly 30 minutes, but the way it turned out, the Irish probably wished it never started at all. 
Notre Dame's early lead became a dis­tant memory as St. Bonaventure raced to a 68-57 win at the Reilly Center in Olean, N.Y. 
_It's a scenario that is becoming all too common. 
"They got away from us and we couldn't regroup," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "We just couldn't get the energy level back." 
Or the offense. 
Notre Dame scored the game's first eight points and opened a 16-6 lead before careening into the familiar brick wall. "It was a great start, the best start we've had in a long time," MacLeod said. "But after that early burst we had all kinds of difficulty offensively." 
The Bonnies got their offensive diffi­culty out of the way early, not scoring for the first five minutes. 
"You can't start a game like that against better teams," Moore said. "We won't be able to come back." 
St. Bonaventure clawed its way back with a 22-9 run to take a one point lead and led 33-30 at halftime. 
Then the leak delayed the second half. And stalled the Irish. "We continued to get good shots, but 
The Observer/John Bingham 

we just kept missing, and missing and 
Freshman guard Admore White scored eight points, but it was not enough as the Irish fell to missing," MacLeod said. "We were try­
St. Bonaventure. 

Irish look for 11th win tonight 
ing some different combinations, but we weren't having much success." 
This is a recording...Only Monty Williams had any offensive success for the Irish, scoring a game-high 23 points. 
Ryan Hoover added 10 and Admore White had eight late points. 
Foul trouble handicapped the Irish inside. The Bonnies' Harry Moore grabbed 13 rebounds and poured in 17 points for and David Vanterpool woke up in the second half to finish with 13 points. 
"Vanterpool, who had been inactive, came alive in the second half," MacLeod said. "We were depleted along the front line." 
Junior Lamarr Justice became the third starting point guard of the season, after White and senior Brooks Boyer struggled to keep the turnovers down. 
But the result was essentially the same. Notre Dame's offense limps regardless of who is at the controls. 
"The defense shut them down," said Bonnies' coach Jim Baron, a former Notre Dame assistant. "We felt we need­ed to pressure and force the defense, and we rebounded the ball much better in the second half." 
NOTRE DAME (5-V) 
M. Williams 8-16 7-10 23, Cozen 0-4 o-o 0, Ross D-1 1-2 1, Hoover 4-7 o-o 10, Justice 1-2 o-o 2, White 2-2 4-5 8, Boyer o-o o-o 0, Kurowski 1-4 8-6 8, Miller 0-2 0-0 0, J. Williams D-4 1-2 1, Taylor o-o o-o 0, Keaney o-o o-o 0, Gotsch 1-1 1-2 3, Ross 2-4 0-1 4, Ryan o-o o-o o. Tot•IB: 19-4717-28 57. ST. BONAVENTURE (6-7) 
Moore 4-12 7-9 17, Mance 3-10 4-4 10, Hauff D-2 1-4 1, McNeil2-4 2-3 7, Vanterpool 4-8 4-4 13, Satalin 0-1 o-o 0, Gallo 0-1 0-0 0, Hemelser 0-1 0-0 0, Nelson-Richards 1-5 0-0 3, Glidden 2-4 1-2 6, Shelton 0-0 0-0 0, Quackenbush 4-6 1-3 10, FernanD-O 1-21. TotalS: 2D-5421-3168 
Halltlm._St. Bonaventure 33, Notre Dame 30 3-Polnt goals-Notre Dame 2-11 (Hoover 2-5), St. Bonaventure 7-19 .(Moore 2-3). Fouled out-Williams-Notre Dame. Rebound­
Notre Dame 37 (Ross 7), St. Bonaventure 38 (Moore 14). Assists-Notre Dame 11 (Justice 3), St. Bonaventure 11 (McNeill). Totalloui-Notre Dame 28, St. Bonaventure 24. 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will begin a four-game homestand tonight, as they play host to Midwestern Collegiate Conference rival Evansville at 7:30 pm in the J.A.C.C. 
The Irish, sporting a 10-4 season record, defeated LaSalle last Saturday 92-73. It marked the first time ever that Notre Dame beat the Explorers on the road. 
The victory did not come easy, however. Forwards Tootie Jones, Letitia Bowen, and Carey Poor gathered three fouls apiece in the first half, as they had to watch from the bench as LaSalle took a 37-36 lead into halftime. 
The Irish rebounded, though, outscoring the Explorers 56-36 in the second half to secure the 19-point win. Freshman Beth Morgan led all scorers with 27 points and Kara Leary poured in 13 to lead the Irish. 
Though it is far too early in the season to be considering a conference championship, it is a goal that is first on the list of every Irish player. 

"We're pretty positive," said Poor, who turned in 12 points in Saturday's win over LaSalle. "We're going in thinking we can win the MCCs. We just want to play 40 strong minutes instead of 20." 
Evansville will enter tonight's game with a lowly 2-13 record, a drastic change from last year's 18-10.squad. Head coach Faith Mimnaugh has had a rough time in her rookie year after four prosperous years as an assistant at North Carolina State. 
Mimnaugh's face is not the only one to grace the hardwood floor for the Purple Aces for the first time. Evansville has five new recruits this year, includ­ing Erin Harycki, Shannon Schoch, and the team's leading rebounder. Rochelle Padgett. 
Though Evansville has suf­fered through a disappointing season thus far, it will not keep them from being pumped for a big game against the Irish. But the Notre Dame players are well aware of this possibility. and have not lost focus. 
Super Bowl Bound This weekend's NFC and
! 
AFC Championships will 
...... 
decide the participants in 
r 
t Super Bowl XX:VIll. 
I
r. 

.Q99 skating team . 
~ 
see pages 16 and 17 
see page 15 
! ' 
Lillehammer'94 

"Everyone wants to beat Notre Dame," continued Poor. "lf we lose an MCC game, it can automatically put us in second place." 
Notre Dame holds a 16-1 se­ries advantage over the Purple Aces, though that one loss came two seasons ago. 
Evansville is currently riding an eight-game losing skid, their latest defeat coming at the hands of Detroit Mercy last weekend. Returning team leaders for the Purple Aces are guard Amy LeFever, who led the team in scoring with 12.4 points per game last season, and junior Tricia Deffendoll, who ranks second on the team in scoring and three-point shooting. 
This potent tandem will have to face not only an aggressive starting five for the Irish, but also a consistent group of bench players that have proven to be the final advantage in many of Notre Dame's victories. Freshman Jeannine Augustin has had 31 assists on the year The Observer !Kyle Kusek 
and Katryna Gaither has turned Senior point guard Kara Leary will lead the Irish against Evansville at in 11 blocked shots in reserve the J.A.C.C. tonight. 

roles this year. 

Inside SPORTS 
Gillooly Charged Jeff Gillooly's guilt further jeopardizes tonya Harding's spot on . the U.S. Olympic figure 
Miller Paces Indiana Reggie Miller scores 21 to lead the Pacers over the Heat. 
see page 13 






