
~­

By PATRICK STONELAKE neighbor and yet having every­
head plans 
News Writer thing in common with him. The first step toward realizing this The future of multicultural­goal, according to Rosado, is ism was the focus of a lecture the analysis of general societal 
for fall 
yesterday given by Caleb trends. Rosado of Humboldt College in As society moved from an By ELIZABETH MARTIN the Hesburgh Peace Institute agrarian era in the 1850s News Writer 
·Auditorium. through the industrial period 
Rosado outlined the problems and into the information age, Audrey Comrie, the incoming facing the drive towards multi­the minds of its people experi­coordinator for Saint Mary's culturalism today and the prob­enced a similar change in ori­Student Activities Board (SAB), lems that the movement is sure entation. and her board members are to find in the future. They gathered in progres­already in the process of plan­
He described two modern so­sively larger groups from tribe ning events for next fall. cial classes, which, although to technopolis, and their ethnic Comrie officially takes office opposed, contribute to each view moved from conformity to April 1, replacing Jill Hotek, other. Rosado discussed uniformity to today's diversity. the current SAB coordinator. "McWorld," a term that de­In the future Rosado sees a According to Comrie, Hotek has scribes a heterogeneous society global society of "neo-villages" been instrumental in making driven "centrifugally" or as a connected by a vast information SAB a well-known and recog­rush to contain, to wrap all of exchange network which will nized campus organization. society into an easily manage­de-emphasize the importance Comrie says she "would like to able whole. The ultimate goal of the body. Ethnic attitudes continue that (recognition) by is not unity but uniformity. will progress to a new "mutual­offering a variety of events that 
This type of society creates a ity," a sense of reliance on fel­students find interesting." reactionary group, which low human beings. Comrie has chosen a board of Rosado termed the "Jihad." "In the world that we're 14 students for next year, This group is militantly ho­headed for, we need all hands which is more than SAB has mogenous, and tends to align on deck," Rosado said. had in the past. along religious or ethnic barri­"The key dynamic in multi­"A lot of great people were ers. As they strive to preserve culturalism is to maintain the applying and I didn't want to their differences, it brings them dimensions of unity and divi­turn someone away with so into a natural conflict with the sion in balanced tension, with­much enthusiasm," says concept of "McWorld". out erring to either side," he Comrie. 
This conflict often builds to a said. "Any major overestima­Comrie expects the all-cam­violent confrontation, a perfect tion leads to the situations or pus event chairperson will con­example of which is the World "Jihad" or "Me World." tinue the tradition of activities Trade Center bombing, Rosado A key foundation for this bal­that includes all Saint Mary's said. These two opposing fac­ance is respect or "Total students. Past all campus tions illustrate exactly what the Quality Respect," Rosado said. men of all cultures, rehgwns, east. events include the Masquerade multiculturalist movement "It is a lack of respect for oth­and sexual orientations to work The first lesson of Andrew Ball and Destination Unknown. 
lacks today, according to ers ... which gives rise to most of for this respect for themselves was "Failure to anticipate im­SAB is open to suggestions and Rosado. the conflicts in organizations," and others. pending change with a proac­ideas for next year. Comrie 
"Unity is not synonymous he said. "Everything from the neck tive process will result in great encouraged students to offer with uniformity," Rosado said. This becomes especially im­down is minimum wage," he loss due to a come-from-behind their input. "and neither is diversity syn­portant on college campuses said. reactive response," Rosado Student involvement and 
onymous with separation." where the leaders and doers of Rosado gave as an example of said, and the Second Law of awareness of SAB is key, The solution lies between, in tomorrow are trained. the way we learn from the past Andrew is to "Be careful how according to Comrie. a "Unity in Diversity," a Rosado reminded students some of his observations on you build, for the storm will "One thing the board is look-Hurricane Andrew, ·which dam­show what sort of work has
halfway point between having that their education gives them aged much of the coastal south-been done." see SAB I page 4 
Pre-term problems discussed 
By DANE KRAMER 
News Writer 
Dr. Zubie Sheikh addressed the attitude of many pro-choice advocates that the pre-term baby, or fetus, is a 'glob of cells' and not a person in her lecture titled "The Pre-term Baby: 'A Glob of Cells' or Special Patient. 
Sheikh spoke in hopes of ed­ucating people about the importance of prevention, preventative medicine, and pre­natal care. She described tests and procedures for detecting der to swell excessively. "We if the pregnancy is normal or
defects in pre-term babies 
could have taken care of it," an abnormal one. Next, the
which may be cured if found 
Sheikh said. "We could have fetal protein test, which is per­early enough. 
drained its bladder periodically formed in the second trimester
In her experience at the Uni­
until it was born and then cor­of pregnancy, indicates if there 
versity of Chicago where she 
rected the problem surgically. is too much or too little protein
has worked in the department 
But, the woman would not present. Excessive of insuffi­
of Obstetrics and Gynecology 
come in, she didn't want to cient protein may cause ab­
for ten years, Sheikh said "Most 
bother with it, and it's free!" normalities in the nervous sys­
of the patients simply don't 
Sheikh described tests tem, mental and physical hand­
know what's going on." Often 
which detect these kinds of de­icaps, or chromosome defects.
times pregnant women don't 
fects, tests which are essential Finally, ultra-sound tests allow 
even go to be examined until it 
to insure the health of the pre­doctors to see physical defects
is too late for proper pre-natal 
term baby. and fetal behavior pattern tests care. 
First, the pregnancy test are important for checking the
In one case, a pre-term 
which should be performed in babies development. 
baby developed problems with 
the first trimester, determines
its kidneys that caused its blad­
see BABIES I page 4 



r 
! 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN . · 
Down the Yellow Brick road and ho01e 
There's no place like------
....-1 home ... 
All that time she thought she only wanted to get home, she helped her friends gain a brain, a heart, and some courage. Before she left Oz. she found all of these within herself and gained an appreciation for family TheresaAleman and friends along the Assistant Accent Editor way. A place where there isn't any trouble. I wonder ifthere is such a place. 
Accepted at Notre Dame. Unappreciated at home, longing for adventure, trying to stay out of trouble. I left home thinking I was Dorothy, looking for the land over the rainbow, in search of dreams coming true, a dome of gold, and skies of ... BLUE? 
Airfare didn't permit me to bring the whole house_ So I settled for a few suitcases. If Toto wanted to come too, he had to be a fish. 
BBThey were so nice in Munchkin Land {Freshman Year of Studies) I almost hated to leave. Free tutoring if needed, counseling ser­vices if desired, and best of all-NO DART. 
But I was convinced that I had to get to Emerald City (I guess that's graduation), so I was soon on my way down the yellow brick road. Okay so it was kind of gray and slushy. Those ruby slippers were way inconvenient for the ice, {not to mention they didn't go with much) so I traded them in for some snow boots with thick soles. 
Did you notice Dorothy never slept except for when the witch put that spell on the pop­pies? And that got her in a heap of trouble. Mind you, if anyone at this Oz succumbs to the sleep of the poppies, in a field with friends, they're sure to be carried off to Student Affairs just as fast as the green monkeys can fly. 
Let's see, I had to make some friends who needed just as much help as I did, and who at least moderately resembled the friends and family I came to know and love at home. 
How was I supposed to know that the dome of the brochure was a place where people went when they were in trouble, or needed to ask for more money to help fmance their stay at Oz? 
Needless to say, Glenda the good witch or fairy godmother or whatever she was never showed up. I buried Toto in St. Joseph Lake a 
bout four months ago--hypothermia I guess. 
Scarecrow, Tin Man, Lion and I have been hurdling and dodging the fireballs of required classes, denied job positions, and DuLac since we left Munchkin City. 
While the trees don't talk when touched, I bet a few of them at least hum the ND Fight Song (everything else does). 
Not even the people under the golden dome know for sure if the wizard exists or not-they call it faith around here and a lot of us go to church just in case. 
Sure, I worry about Auntie Em and everyone back home from time to time, but who can afford balloon passage home very often? AT&T allows me to call home and check up on them regularly. I'm not ready to leave Oz yet, I still have a lot to learn. But I have come to understand, there's no place like home. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Accent Liz Foran Lisa Monaco Mara Divis Graphics Sports Chris W eirup Bryan Connally Production Viewpoint 
Whitney Sheets Belle Bautista Brian Seiler 
The Observer • INSIDE March 29, 1994 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
21 dead after twister rips through, destroys Alabama church 
PIEDMONT, Ala. ;~,,,_,....,. ~y"'"'"---''''+. ''""'"'k'"·. ·"""'~-n ....,. Mother Nature takes over," he An Easter Week pageant Severe storms hit the Southeast said. "You're kind of helpless." turned into a horror show when Tornadoes pounded the Southeast Sunday and claimed at More rain fell in the Southeast a tornado flattened a crowded. least431ives.Somemajortornadoesandtimesoftouchdown: early today. Heavy showers and 
church, killing the pastor's 4-· fAIItimasEST.J year-old daughter and 20 other people. 
Officials today surveyed the wreckage left by a band of storms , that pounded the Southeast and ·· claimed at least 43 lives. Deadly · twisters and violent thunder­storms battered churches, hun­dreds of houses and a nursing! home on Palm Sunday. Twenty-! three people were killed in 
abama, 17 in Georgia, two in North Carolina and one in Tennessee. 
In addition, a Georgia man died while helping clean up from the 
storm. Georgia Gov. Zell Miller Source:Accu-woarherlnc. took a helicopter tour of some of the damaged areas of his state this morning. "There's not much you can do when 
Mandela looks to his heritage for goals 
BISHO, South Africa For a few minutes, in his 76th year, Nelson Mandela had a glimpse of the life that might have been. It was when tribal elders in this Ciskeian capital clothed him in the "isidan­ga" -court garb -and handed him a rod of authority. Fellow members of his Xhosa tribe cheered. With his sil­very hair and his taut posture, Mandela on this recent campaign occasion looked like the lordly chief of the Tembu clan he was once destined to become. But as a boy he listened to the tales told around the fire. Those stories, of the times before the whites came and of the heroic resistance waged by a pantheon of African chiefs, inspired him to a different road. "I hoped and vowed then that, among the treasures that life might offer me, would be the opportunity to serve my people and make my own humble contribution to their freedom struggles," he once recalled. That treasure was bestowed on him. Instead of settling disputes and tending to clan interests as a chief, Mandela rejected narrow tribalism and became the central player in a much larger drama: the liberation of all black South Africans dominated by whites in the land of their birth. 
French dramatist lonesco dead at 81 
PARIS Playwright Eugene Ionesco, whose absurdist masterpieces overcame initial ridicule to gain worldwide popularity, died Monday at his home in Faris. He was 81. Ionesco's family said he had not been hospitalized, but declined to give details about the cause of death. "Rhinoceros," "The Bald Soprano" and "The Lesson" turned theatrical con­ventions on their head, using farce to bolster Ionesco's observations about alienation in everyday life and the debasements of totalitarianism. At least one of his plays has been in production in Paris every night since 1950. One theater has offered only a double bill of "The Lesson" and "The Bald Soprano" since 1957 -Monday night's show was the 11,944th. "He was a revolutionary of the theater who turned 20th century drama upside down," said Jack Lang, France's former culture minister. In "Rhinoceros," the protagonists try to cope with a world in which everyone else is mutating into beasts. In "The Bald Soprano," two married couples sit around exchanging tedious maxims such as "The country is quieter than the city." "It's not a certain society that seems ridiculous to me," Ionesco once wrote. "It's mankind." His plays fre­quently were controversial. 
thunderstorms were in the fore­cast for the region, with hail and tornadoes possible from central Florida across Georgia and into the Carolinas. The Goshen United Methodist Church was devastated in seconds Sunday. 
The pageant and the start of Holy Week had attracted 140 people, far more than the usual turnout of 50. Ninety people were injured -many of them trapped in the rubble for as long as an hour. 
"The power had gone off, but everyone just kept singing," said APM'm. J. casreno Carol Scroggin, who was at the altar leading the drama when the storm struck at about 
11:30 a.m. 
Air connection to Chicago to begin 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. A new low-cost airline connection between southwestern Indiana and Chicago will begin May 3, providing four trips each way on weekdays. Chicago Express Airlines announced the connection between Evansville and Chicago's Midway Airport Monday. One-way fares are to range from $59 with a 14-day advance reservation to a $79 fare with no advance registration necessary. The 14­day advance reservation is a non-refundable and non­changeable ticket, officials said. The airline, which started business last August, operates a fleet of Jetstream J-31 turbo-prop planes which seat 19 passengers, said Courtney M. Anderson, the airline's president and chie executive officer. Chicago Express already offers service to other cities within a 250-mile hub of Chicago, including Toledo, Ohio; Green Bay, Wis.; and Lansing, Mich. Chicago Express will offer flights from Evansville to Midway on weekdays at 6 a.m., 9:25 a.m., 2:10 p.m. and 5:35 p.m. Flights from Midway to Evansville on weekdays will depart at 7:35a.m., 12:25 p.m., 4 p.m. and 7:30p.m. 
Residents protest registration decision 
CROWN POINT, Ind. More than 350 Lake County residents will not be allowed to vote in the May primary unless they appear at the gov­ernment center here to register again. Voter registration office staffers marked as void some 375 Lake County regis­trations last week because they were brought in after the deadline. Volunteer field registrars, many of whom are precinct committee members, must turn in completed reg­istration forms by noon on the day after the close of field registration. For the May 3 primary, that deadline was noon ·March 21. Registration officials in most of the state's most populated counties spoke of varying, though usually flexible, grace periods after the legal deadline. But not in Lake County. Republican committeemen Daniel Pastar and Michael Baron together brought in about 90 registrations, but they came in about a minute past the deadline. No matter, said new chief registration deputy Tom Browne. "Noon is noon," he said, insisting that even one second past 12 p.m. would be too late. Brown did note that his office initially was wrong by marking the registrations "void." He said they would be processed, but not until after the primary election. The Lake County Combined ElectionNoter Registration board considered the matter Wednesday but took no action. 

NATIONAL Weather .
INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 29.
Tuesday, March 29 Accu-Weather 00 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
50s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Waathar, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIB Auoaated Press 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta 60 37 Houston 65 53 Phoenix 86 55 Baltimore 53 34 Los Ange,les 70 54 St. Louis 41 27 Boston 46 32 Miami 80 68 San Francisco 65 50 Chicago 41 25 Minneapolis 40 16 Seattle 62 45 Colombus 43 28 New Orleans 69 45 Dallas 59 47 New York . 49 35 Denver 46 21 Philadelphia 52 35 
: ., r . 
Tuesday, March 29, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Doubts raised about speeding asylum claims 
By MICHAEL SNIFFEN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration plans to streamline the han­dling of the 150,000 annual re­quests for political asylum but critics wonder whether the measures will merely create a new backlog elsewhere in the system. 
Federal officials and immi­gration advocates in the private sector said the Justice Depart­ment is on the verge of imple­menting three steps: doubling the number of officials handling claims, imposing a $130 pro­cessing fee for those who can afford it, and delaying the granting of work permits until six months after application. 
In a major policy change, the new system will be put to work on new claims immediately. 
"We're adopting a last-in, first-out policy," said one gov­ernment official, who declined to be identified by name. "We are going to process new appli­cations first and not immedi­ately deal with the backlog." 
That backlog now numbers 370,000 cases and the Immi­gration and Naturalization Ser­vice estimates it could hit 500,000 cases by the end of the year. 
Immigration and Naturaliza­tion Commissioner Doris Meissner was to outline the steps in detail at a news confer­ence Tuesday. 
"There's a real risk that this will simply transfer the backlog from one office to another with­in the Justice Department," according to Arthur Helton, director of migration programs for the Open Society Institute. 
The administration plan to in­crease, perhaps double, the 85 immigration judges simply does not add enough judges to han­dle the caseload, said Helton, whose pro-immigration foun­dation was established by Hun­garian-born financier George Soros. 


SUNDAY, APRIL 10, 1994 1:00 -5:00 p.m. A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationship -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions -Maintaining long-distance relationships 
THERE IS NO COST FOR THE PROGRAM, BUT ... PRE-REGISTRATION BY APRIL 7 IS REQUIRED Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
He said the 85 judges, who also have other business, cur­rently decide 20,000 asylum claims a year. Doubling them might add another 40,000 asy­lum decisions, but Helton said he expected they would be given an additional 120,000 cases a year. 
"The new system may involve less work for an immigration officer to refer cases to immi­gration judges than to grant asylum.," he said. 
Now, even applicants with no real chance of winning asylum can get a work permit just 90 days after applying and work for years while they wait for their claim to be denied. To get asylum, an applicant must have a well-founded fear of ethnic, religious or political persecu­tion if returned to his or her country of origin. 
The new system envisions that immigration officers who handle these claims, their num­bers doubled from 150· to 300, will be able to process meritori­ous claims within 60 days and hand out a work permit at the same time. · 
Those who are not given asy­lum within 60 days will be sum­moned to a deportation hear­ing, and it could take another six months to get a work per­mit. 
In addition, the immigration service will begin fingerprinting asylum applicants to eliminate a problem of duplicate applica­tions in different U.S. cities under different names. 
And those filing boilerplate applications now sold by so­called "consultants" will be asked for additional data so a quick decision can be made. 
The new $130 fee is designed to help pay the $600 cost of processing an application. The fees will be waived for those who cannot afford it. 
Senate to boycott 0 bserver 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
At its last meeting of the 1993-1994 school year, Student Senators voted to boycott The Observer unless it abandoned its plans for a weekly magazine and marketing department in­dependent of Adworks and Scholastic. 
STUDENT SENATE 
If The Observer does not com­ply by April 15, student govern­ment will put advertising funds for student groups and clubs on hold, according to Student Body President Frank Flynn. 
"The club coordination coun­cil supports the resolution to boycott The Observer," said Club Coordinator Frank McGe­hee. "From this point on, we will no longer run the club col­umn, and the council asks all the clubs on campus to with­draw financial support of The Observer through advertise­ments." 
Unless the incoming adminis­tration changes the resolution, the current student government can put a hold on advertising funds. 
"The current government has control until July 1, " Flynn said. 
Several senators supported the idea of allowing Student Body President Ele·ct David Hungeling and the new admin­istration to handle the situa­tion, but others wanted a deci­sion made because revenue was involved. 
Some senators suggested that a decision .be made as soon as possible before The Observer implemented its ideas. 
"They are businesses," said Student Senator Dana Ander­son, referring to advertising agencies such as Adworks and any agency The Observer pro­poses to start. 
Representatives from Ad­works and Scholastic were pre­sent at the meeting expressing concern that The Observer was trying to generate more rev­enue by establishing an "ad agency." 
"It is a duplication of services by The Observer," said Ad­works president Brian DiLaura. 
Some senators recommended having delegates represent the Student Senate at a University meeting, or sending corre­spondence to the president's office indicating what The Ob­server intends. 
"We would not be represent­ing the interests of the student body if we do not act on this," said Freshman Council Presi­dent Tom Matzzie. "I recom­mend that the class of 1997 not use The Observer unless it com­plies with the resolution." 
In other Senate news, Student Senators voted for the Irish Clover recipient and an amend­ed version of the SUB constitu­tion passed by unanimous con­sent. 
SENIORS IN THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINSTRATION 
ANNUAL OUTSTANDING TEACHER AWARD ELECTIONS WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE LOBBY OF: 
HAYES-HEALY, MONDAY, 3/28,9:30 A.M -11:30 A.M ·HURLEY BUILDING, TUESDAY, 3/29,9:00 A.M-11:15 AM HAYES-HEALY, WEDNESDAY, 3/30, 1:00PM-3:30PM HURLEY BUILDING, THURSDAY, 3/31, 1:00PM-3:00PM 
IT'S BACK! 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 
5:00p.m.... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday Price of Large 1Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
~~=-­
Babies 
continued from page 1 
Sometimes these tests de­tect incurable defects which render the pre-term baby un­able to survive outside the womb. In such cases, Sheikh advocates abortion. However, in other cases she sees the pre­term baby as a "special patient" which needs special care to insure its health. 
While she does not deny a woman's right to an abortion, she says such care would pre­vent unnecessary abortions and miscarriages. 
Sheikh's lecture was spon­sored by ND Right to Life. "We invited her because those who are pro-life see the baby as the patient, those who are pro­choice see the mother as the patient, and we wanted to hear a view that was midway be­tween," said Maurine Kram­lich, the group's vice president of operations. 
SAB 
continued from page 1 
ing forward to doing is a Welcome Back Bash for Saint Mary's students," says Comrie. 
This board hopes to get start­ed immediately next year. To accomplish this, the entire stu­dent government is planning on attending an overnight seminar the weekend after Easter. 
"It will be a good experience because everyone will get bet­ter knowledge of her position," Comrie said. 
"This (retreat) will get us ahead of the game for next year," says Comrie. She expects it to be a brainstorm­ing weekend in which concrete goals will be set for SAB. 
SECURITY BEAT 
Let the games be~lin ... 
Lyons Hall senior Kristin Rnapp signs up for Women's Bookstore Basketball yesterday. 
The 0 bserver 
is looking for 
come to an organizational meeting Wednesday at 8 p.m. outside The Observer office, 314 Lafonune. For more infonnation, call Bevin Kovalik or Dave Tyler at 1-4541. 
Tuesday, March 29, 1994 
Notre Dame Students 
the Cmmcil on International Educatiooal Exchange offers you the OWlrtunity of a lifetime. JUST CAlL (212) 661-1414 EXT. 1426 NOW for your FREE brochure oo how to work legally in Britain, lreland, France, Gennany, Costa Rica, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia 
CIEE provides the work authorizatioo, a (JOgflBil handtxxi, flight discounts, alocal resource center, employer leads, and accomm.odarirn qJtions all for just $1ffi. Do it for aswruner or after graduatirn or even while studying abrood. 
See adifferent culture fmn the inside while mhancing yoor resume, or do it just foc fun! 
Rental Uni.ts Now Available 
• 1/4 Mile from Library  •Washer & Dryer Units  
• Brand Ne\N Appliances  • Large Closets  
•2 Bedrooms  • Covered Parking  
• 2 Bathrooms  • Security System  

•large Balconies 
272-0691· 
Going Quickly • $660 per month 
Tuesday, March 29, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Gonzalez defends hearing cancellings 
Americans 
By DEBORAH MESCE proper time and· under proper Gonzalez. be upset" with a decision by the 
had gapS i 
Associated Press circumstances" -not, he said, Republicans, citing a House Resolution Trust Corp. to retain while Republicans planned to rule that allows the minority former U.S. Attorney Jay B. 
• WASHINGTON "create a donnybrook" and in-party to call witnesses, had in-Stephens to investigate the 
Insurance 
The House Banking Commit­terfere with a special counsel. vited a list of witnesses that failed Madison Guaranty Sav­tee chairman said today he's Gonzalez' comments did not read like a who's who of the ings and Loan, Leach said of "not interested in protecting concern the broad Whitewater Whitewater affair. senior White House aides By RANDOLPH SCHMID anyone" in the Whitewater af­hearings the House voted to Gonzalez said that under his Harold Ickes and George 1'-'A.s""'s""oc""ia'!!:re!'..d~Pr~es~s----------1 fair. and defended his decision hold if the bipartisan leadership interpretation, the Republicans Stephanopoulos. 
WASHINGTON
to cancel what would have been agrees on a time and format. · could not conduct an investiga-"It was probably a mistake to Older Americans may worrythe first House hearing on the The Texas Democrat referred tive hearing if the majority convey this in a way that may about their health insurance,subject. to legally required hearings on Democrats did not plan to do or may not have implied trying but younger people are more
Rep. Henry Gonzalez told a the savings and loan cleanup so. to release him {Stephens) from likely to be without coverage,
news conference the committee agency, which were scheduled ''I'm not interested in protect-this job," Leach said of the Feb. 
the Census Bureau says. 
would conduct hearings "at the March 24 and then canceled by ing anyone ... only in preserving 25 call from Stephanopoulos Nearly one American in fourthe integrity of the committee," and Ickes to Deputy Treasury 

had no health insurance at

Gonzalez said, adding he only Secretary Roger Altman. 
some time between Februaryhas met President Clinton on "I hope we don't make too
March 29, 1973 
1990 and September 1992. But 
one occasion and never talked much of this part of the story." 

nearly half of people aged 18
to the White House about Leach said. "I think it's real, to 24 had a lapse in coverageWhitewater. but it isn't thoroughly devastat-
JKyllce JKurrQceJk 
during that period, the bureau
Meanwhile, the ranking Re-ing." 
said in a report released
publican on the committee said The White House, meanwhile, Monday.
"21 and on Top 
Sunday he cannot conclude two challenged a published report Young adults are often nottop White House aides acted il-that Hillary Rodham Clinton did covered because they are be­legally when they complained not put any of her own money
ofthe World" 
yond the age to be included in
to a Treasury official about the at risk to realize roughly their parents' plan and are nothiring of a former Republican-$100,000 in cattle futures tract­in jobs that offer protection,
Congrats-
appointed prosecutor in the ing profits in 1978 and 1979. 
explained Robert Bennefield o
Whitewater case. But the expert, Professor the Census Bureau. 
"The White House may have Marvin A. Chirelstein of "When you are young you
we love you! 
made a mistake, but I think it'd Columbia University Law think nothing can happen tobe premature to draw any ex-School, issued a statement you, so they tend to not pur­traordinary conclusions," Rep. Sunday calling the Newsweek
Mom, Dad, Pat, & 
chase insurance ... that's part
Jim Leach, R-Iowa, said Sunday article "false and irresponsi­
of the problem," Bennefield
on NBC's "Meet the Press." ble." The statement was dis-
Grandma Kusek 
added.
" It's natural that they would tributed by the White House. 
Among people 65 and over. most of whom are covered by Medicare, only 1 per cent re­
showed that 1992 revenue for
9:Jesus Falls the Third Time 
Steps of Architecture Building 
the nation's health care service
Between Pasquerilla East and West 
industry topped $625 billion, a
2:Jesus Accepts His Cross 
nine per cent increase from
1O:Jesus Is Stripped of His Garments
Log Chapel 
1991.
Front of Keenan-Stanford 3:Jesus Falls the First Time 
"Revenues for nearly all
11 : Jesus is Nailed to the Cross
Lyons Arch 
health service industries in­
Clarke Memorial Fountain 
creased, with home health care
4:Jesus Meets His Mother 

and kidney dialysis centers
12:Jesus Dies on the Cross
Steps of South Dining Hall 
posting the largest gains," said
Front steps LaFortune Student Center 
Tom Zabelsky, manager of the 
S:Simon Helps Jesus Carry the Cross 
bureau's annual survey of the
13: Jesus is Taken Down From Cross 
Law School Side Door 
service industry. 
Front Steps of Main Building 6:Veronica Wipes the Face of Jesus 14: The Burial of Jesus 
Hospitals accounted for more than half of all health service income at $335 billion in 1992, while doctors and clinics 
O'Shaughnessy at Mestrovic Memorial Inside Basilica of the Sacred Heart 0MPUS 
7:Jesus Falls the Second Time 
Adoration of the Cross 
brought in $150 billion. 
Library Courtyard MINISTRY 

8:Jesus Comforts Weeping Women
Gather: Grotto 
Siegfried-Knott Hill
1 :Jesus is Condemned to Death 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 29, 1994 
•
USCODI 
Israel, PLO accelerate negotiations 

By DONNA ABU-NASR 
isleadiqg 
Associated Press 
Italy 
id'' 
JABALIYA REFUGEE CAMP, Occupied Gaza Strip Israeli undercover troops
By FRANCES D'EMIUO killed six senior members of the 
Press 
PLO's military wing in a Gaza shootout Monday, violence that could threaten attempts to restart Israel-PLO peace talks. 
In a sign of Israeli determina­tion to move forward with au­tonomy, however, Israel televi­sion said the army will be ready to pull out of Gaza by April 14. 
The shootout between the Palestinians and soldiers left the highest one-day death toll in the occupied lands since the Feb. 25 massacre at a Hebron mosque that killed 30. 
The army said the six dead were senior members of the Fatah Hawks, the military wing of Vasser Arafat's mainstream PLO organization. They were still sought by the army despite the PLO-Israel autonomy ac­cord. 
When the shootout erupted in the Jabaliya refugee camp north of Gaza City, the six were distributing leaflets criticizing the PLO for attempting to re­turn to talks on implementing Palestinian autonomy in the oc­cupied territories. 
.Two of the six Palestinians were shot point-blank -one grabbed by the hair and shot in the head and a second killed as he lay bleeding on the ground, witnesses said. 
A seventh Palestinian and two bystanders were wounded, wit­nesses said. The army reported only two wounded. 
After the shootout, Fatah called for major confrontations with the army on Tuesday and a three-day mourning strike. "We must make the land burn underneath the feet of the Is­raeli soldiers," blared Fatah trucks with loudspeakers. 
Fatah, like the larger Pales­tinian community, is split over 
needs you to help design a new entertainment magazine. Experience with Adobe Photoshop, Aldus Freehand and QuarkX.Press preferred. A great resume builder. ======= 
TOASTMASTERS 
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC SPEAKING CLUB 
will meet tonight, Tuesday, March 29 222 Hayes-Healy 7:00pm Pizza will be served 
NEW MEMBERS ALWAYS WELCOME! 
the issue of restarting talks in the wake of the massacre. Ne­gotiators were to meet in Cairo on Tuesday to continue efforts to restart the talks, but their ef­forts were jeopardized by the continuing violence. 
The report of the pullout preparations coincided with comments made by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, who said Monday that an autonomy agreement could be wrapped up by mid-April and be fol­lowed by a speedy troop pullout from Gaza and Jericho. 
On the eve of resuming talks with the PLO, a senior army of­ficial said the military has al­ready moved out much of its equipment from the soon-to-be­autonomous areas, and that it would only take a few days to complete the pullout. 
Military officials told Israeli television it would be completed in two weeks. 
ATTENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SoPHOMORES 
ifyou are interested in serving on tlie Co{{ege of~usiness .9Ldministration Co{{ege CounciG p{ea.se submit your resume and a fetter ofrecommendation from a 'B.9L facu{ty member to: 
Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio Room 132 Hayes-Healy Center 
no {ater tlian .9Lpri{8, 1994 
21 
"Time to quit clowning around!" 
Happy Birthday 
~J70@ ~l]]~@[n 
Congratulations! 
Cork 
Betty Pat 
Mark Your Calendars 
~DD4 8ENIOI& INFOI&~_£_L Friday, April 15th, from 7:00PM at Corpus Christi Parish Hall off Portage Avenue 
-sit-down Polish wedding feast dinner­-hours of dancing­-two great bands, including Sabor Latina­-only $12.00 a person­-tickets on sale after Easter-
Next planning committee meeting Tuesday Night, March 29, at mid­
night at Club 2 3. All interested seniors are invited. 
BUSINESS 
Tuesday, March 29, 1994 Page 7 
Babbitt stresses ecology 
By SCOIT SONNER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The excessive logging that sparked a fight over the ecology and economy in the Pacific Northwest underscores the need to take a broad approach to protecting the environment, Interior Secretary Bruce Bab­bitt said Monday. 
"The first test that we faced of this proposition that we must see it whole was ... the Pacific Northwest timber plan," Bab­bitt said in a speech during a forum at the National Academy of Sciences. 
The Northwest saga is "really quite an extraordinary situa­tion where for the past 10 or 15 years the agencies of the United States government had essen­tially been denying re­sponsibility for the conse­quences of the over-cutting and destruction of the forests in the Pacific Northwest," he said. 
Babbitt and Vice President AI Gore spoke at a conference on environment and natural re­look at entire ecosystems as 
sources research and devel­
they should be looked at." 
opment. It is sponsored by the 
Babbitt singled out the
White House Office of Science Northwest logging dilemma inand Technology Policy. 
explaining the importance of"We are trying to shift our taking a broad view in consid­
approach in the executive 
ering environmental impacts. 
branch by adopting mecha­
"The day when I could sort ofnisms such as ecosystem man­designate the back 40 as a na­agement," Gore said, "to try to tional park, put a fence· around 
gain sufficient cooperation 
it and say that will take care of across political boundaries, to our obligation to nature, is sim-
International instability causes Dow to tumble 

By LISA GENASCI 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Oil and technology shares led stocks lower on Monday as in­vestors worried about the world political scene. 
The Dow Jones industrial av­erage hit its lows for the year before recovering late in the session to close down 12.38 points at 3,762.35. 
Declining issues outnum­bered advances by about 12 to 5 on the New York Stock Ex­change. 
Volume on the floor of the Big Board came to 287.32 million shares as of 4 p.m., up from 
249.56 million in the previous session. 
It was the third consecutive day of declines for the stock market, which saw particular weakness among the smaller capitalization issues. 
Analysts said last week's pes­simism, caused mostly by world events, spilled over into Monday's session. The Dow lost 120 points last week, while the Nasdaq index tumbled 20 points. 
In Mexico last week the lead­ing presidential candidate was assassinated, Russia seems without a leader, North Korea is causing concern and China is exchanging words with the United States over human rights, trade and North Korea. At home, Whitewater plagues the Clinton administration. 
Sentiment was so negative investors largely ignored a weekend event that should have sent them an encouraging sign about inflation, analysts said. 
At a meeting the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Coun­tries failed to agree to trim oil production -a move that was expected to keep down oil prices. Oil stocks and prices tumbled amid the news. 
That pushed bond prices only somewhat higher and interest rates lower. 
In Tokyo, the 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average gained 
0.5 percent, while in London, the Financial Times-Stock Ex­change 100-share index rose 
0.5 point. In Frankfurt, stocks rose 1.5 percent, while in Paris, they ended 0.4 percent higher. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 


4025 3950 3875 3800 3725 3650 3575 
ply gone," Babbitt said. "The empty spaces have shrunk down, the habitat surface of the earth is now fragmented to the point that there isn't any back 40 left. 
"We are ultimately driven then to the question of attempt­ing to see it whole, of asking, can we fmd within the ecosys­tems of this planet some kind of equilibrium?" he said. 
Software publishers lose billions to piracy 
By JEANNINE A VERSA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Publishers lost $7.4 billion worldwide last year from the piracy of business software, down almost one-quarter from 1992. 
The Software Publishers As­sociation, representing 1,100 publishers of computer pro­grams, said Monday that pira­cy cost $9.7 billion in 1992. 
Despite the one-year decline, the loss is sizable, eclipsing, in some cases, revenues from sales. For instance, in 1993, $6.3 billion was made in soft­ware sales in North America, said association spokeswoman Terri Childs. 
"To put our industry's losses in perspective, the United States' sales of recorded music totaled $9 billion in 1992," said the .association's research director David Tremblay. 
The most frequent forms of piracy are when a company buys one program and makes it available through a network of computers, copies the pro­gram or passes the program around to others, Childs said. 
The association has had pro­grams in place -like its anti­piracy hotline -to fight such theft for years. 
Last year alone the associa­tion reported 245 audits or lawsuits against companies. None went to court. Through settlements, the association received $3 million, which was given to member companies. 
The piracy losses to be cited in an association report due in June account only for business software, such as spread­sheets, electronic mail, accounting and data base pro­grams. It does not include entertainment software, such as video games. 
The upcoming report tracks software products made by domestic and foreign compa­nies. Because U.S. companies produce the bulk of software for personal computers, they are hardest hit, Childs said. 
The United States had the largest dollar loss, $1.57 bil­lion, from piracy in 1993, fol­lowed by Japan with $650 mil­lion and France with $435 mil­lion, the association said. 
Piracy is growing at the high­est rate in India and Pakistan, up 95 percent in 1993, fol­lowed by Korea and Brazil, up 89 percent, and Malaysia, up 88 percent over the year, according to the association. 
The association said it plans to expand anti-piracy activities in the Far East, Latin America and Europe. 
Serbia hit hard by U.N. sanctions 
By ALISON SMALE 
Associated Press 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia 
Judging by the dozens of shiny new BMWs and Mercedes-Benzes tooling around Belgrade, Serbia is flourishing. 
Only a closer look at the empty stores, curbside gasoline hawkers and the worn faces and clothes of pensioners searching for a bargain reveals Serbia's true state. 
Belgrade was always Balkan: chaotic, yet governed by com­plex custom; rundown, but si­multaneously chic. It had flair. As capital of the old Yugoslav federation, it attracted talent from all over a now-broken country. 
It was easy to meet people who traveled widely, were flu­ent in several languages and brought a Slavic zest to their European manners, education and fashionable dress. 
Today, almost three years into war, those people are largely gone. About 100,000 have fled Belgrade: young men dodging the draft and intellec­tuals abandoning a society whose new rich are brash folk 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
singers and armed war bucca­neers. 
This brain drain will continue even as the war in Bosnia winds down. Even though the Serb bombardment of Sarajevo has stopped, Serbia has become an international pariah, and few educated people see much future here. 
Remaining intellectuals gath­er at watering holes like the Writers' Club, still home of the best steaks and witty dis­cussions stretching into the night. But the empty chairs and tables at the once-bursting club tell the real story. 
"This year, I got New Year's cards from South Mrica, Aus­tralia and South America," said Dragana Milojevic, 29, a den­tist. "I didn't get many from Belgrade." · 
Today, those with money are a new class spawned by the crime and primitive capitalism sweeping Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. 
Typically, the men sport loud clothes, gold chains, white socks and either a crew-cut or the flowing locks of a would-be rock star. The women are thin, with puffed-up hair, heavy makeup and short skirts. 
In Serbia, the male role 
model is Zeljko Raznatovic, alias Arkan, a Belgrade cafe owner who led one of the toughest Serbian militias in the Croatian and Bosnian wars and then sat for a year in Serbia's parliament. 
The female heroine is Lepa Brena, the Bosnian-born star of folk songs interwoven with pounding rhythms and whining Oriental instruments. 
Belgrade's latest private TV station, Palma, owned by a se­nior figure in the ruling Social­ist Party of President Slobodan Milosevic, offers budding Bre­nas their chance at fame. Every hour it carries a "Folk Mikser," or Serbian music video. 
The U.N. sanctions imposed for Serbia's role in fomenting war are something of a boon to Palma TV. With the impunity of outlaws, it shows the latest movies, such as "The Fugitive" and "Schindler's List," and fears no lawsuit for breach of copyright. 
Milosevic has similarly ex­ploited the sanctions. Tapping Serbs' traditional pride and fighting spirit, he has convinced many that the sanctions show the world is unfair to Serbs who are only defending their inter­ests. 

-~--~~-~--~-----------~-~~ 
VIEWPOINT 
pageS 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commen~ies, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR ---­
Sexual Assault Awareness Week: Victims share experiences and message 
Dear Editor 
I am a 22 year old college se­nior. If you were to look at me you would see a 'normal' col­lege student ready to graduate. Unfortunately, what I let others see and what I feel inside are sometimes completely different things. The reason for this is that I was raped. It took me a long time to accept, admit, and verbalize that I was raped, be­cause the person was not just someone I knew, he was a rela­tive and I was a virgin. When I finally came to terms with the fact that I was raped, I became deeply depressed, emotionally withdrawn, and all I wanted to do was forget. When I could not forget, or feel numb, all I want­ed to do was die. However, nearly a year since the incident I am beginning to feel like I am going to survive. I will never be the same, but I will survive. 
Every rape victim has a dif­ferent story. If we are strong enough to accept that we were raped, then we are faced with the decision of letting others in­cluding our family, friends, and the court system know. Sometimes the feelings of self­blame, shame, guilt, etc. make it too hard to let anyone know, and so the rape goes unspoken. 
Sometimes when the victim does let others know, the vic­tim, not the rapist, is made to feel on trial. What were you wearing? Were you drinking? Did you fight? Did you scream? Why don't you have any bruis­es? If the victim does put the rapist in jail and proves that she is telling the truth, then the victim feels some justice. However, while the rapist's life 
DOONESBURY 
I 
1993: TH8

(f)V&R-UP TAKES SHAPf. 
1HAT'5MYR£a)'rfMt:N[}AT!rYV, 
SIR-WITHHOUJ AU. YOUR 
WHIT/3/A/ATa<. FlUS FROM 
THUR£55.' I 
is interrupted for a few months to a couple of years, the vic­tim's entire life is affected. 
Sometimes the act of rape is just too traumatic to handle and the person just wants to forget it happened at all. They just want to get on with their life. Unfortunately, that task is nearly impossible. Because no matter how hard you try you cannot forget, and you cannot simply move on. Rape, takes so much from the victim. Rape takes innocence, feeling, inde­pendence, control, freedom, personality, and trust in others and in self all in one cruel vio­lent act. The victim is left to try to rebuild him or herself from nothing. Rape drastically changes a person and most of those changes are not visible, nor do they ever go away. 
I wish that I could get that across to everyone. I want to believe that if everyone knew what happens to the victim, then things would change. People, particularly other women, would stop blaming the victim by trying to make the rape justifiable. Men would think twice before 'taking ad­vantage' of a female in any vul­nerable situation. The court system would actually work for the victim and not put them on trial. Everyone would be more sensitive to the issues involved and not expect the victim to just get over it in a week, month, or year. Everyone would be a support, or a friend to a victim because they realize that it is not their fault, and that it can happen to anyone, even themselves. 
ANONYMOUS 
Senior 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter for Sexual Assault Awareness Week. I was raped when I was 17 years old. 
It was right before final ex­ams my junior year in high school. My parents were out of town and I invited a friend over to watch a movie. Within an hour of his arrival, he raped me. At first I did not realize it was rape. He was someone I knew and I had invited him into the house. I called a friend who advised me to report it to the police. 
I did report the rape to the police, and I was treated terri­bly by them. The police would not make an arrest, but I would not let it drop. I made an appointment to talk to the District Attorney and over a year after the incident, an arrest was made. During fall break freshman year I testi­fied in a preliminary hearing and this past summer the case was plea bargained. Exactly two years after I was raped, the man who raped me plead­ed guilty to indecent assault for one year of probation. This summer his probation will be up. My recovery process was long and filled with a lot of counseling. It was not an easyroad. 
My message to the Notre Dame community is about raising awareness and speak­ing out. Rape is underreport­ed here. I did not even realize to what extent until I did a class project about it. 
It is hard to report, especial­ly when the rapist is someone you know. Most people fear the consequences of reporting (everyone will know, they will think it is my fault, maybe it was my fault, etc.), and vic­tim-blaming is still prevalent today. Shame, guilt, humilia­tion, and degradation are all common feelings, and who wants everyone else to know about them? 
The bottom line is that unless people start reporting it, rape will not be seen as a "problem" on this campus. Besides making it known to the other person, we need to make it known to ourselves and society that it is unaccept­able for another person (even a close friend) to do anything to us that we do not want. 
Yes, the cops were jerks. Yes, it was an angering and frustrating experience. Yes, I got bad reactions from people. 
/../Fe,IG8T 
816 8UCIC? FOR AJJV!ct 1.-11<& TH/'3. 
Never once did I wish I had not reported it, though. I sent the message that I was not going to take it. I may have protected other women in the process, and at the very least, I let the rapist know that he could not rape a woman and get away with it. Pressing charges also brought back some of the self-esteem I lost through the attack, because I reminded myself that what I want does matter. 
There are people here who will be supportive. I did a talk show last summer and a girl I had never met before from Notre Dame sent me flowers after watching it. I let the Philadelphia newspapers use my name, and I will let the Observer. I have nothing to hang my head about-the rapist does. 
SARAH KAHLER Pasquerilla West Sophomore 
Editor's Note: Yesterday, a previous letter written by Sarah Kahler was repub­lished. The above letter was the intended piece to run. The Observer regrets the error. 

f3lJT IF I !XJN7 B&TTERTHfY
IKN(){)J 
7VRN THEM OV&R, MAK/7 '30M&­
!HAT, BlfT 7Ht 
7HfYU ?URN 7HINGarTOF
Pf(£.55/A//U. 
THitTINTO N(JJHING 7HJW
TU!<N 7HE3M 
t;:)Mf3.77-fl/'¥3! OlfTOF q()Mt-
INTO '30Mt-­
7HING /A/13 6AVf3.
7H!NG. 
THEM. 
I 
''Ever since Adam fools have been in the majority." 
-Casimir DeLavigne 
~~~-~ ---~---~~ -------~------------­
--~~~ -~ ----._.---~-------­
ACCENT ­
Tuesday, March 29, 1994 page 9 
SMC/ND students head down the Easter trail with baskets filled with goodies 

By KATIE MEYER Accent Writer 
Elizabeth Martin, a Saint Mary's student thinks very highly of one particular profes­sor-Professor Carolyn Weber. 
"She's great. You have to talk to her." 
Weber teaches a Communications Disorders class at Saint Mary's. As an extra experience, her students made Easter baskets for South Bend children with communica­tions disorders. Weber initiates this project annually, and this year the baskets will be given to a South Bend elementary school. 
Martin spoke enthusiastically about the project. 
"It's a little more personal with what we're doing." She said that there are about forty people in the class. 
The class was divided up into groups of three, and each group was responsible for getting to­gether and creating Easter bas-
Needy receive Easter bundles 
By DAN MCKILLOP Accent Writer 
Easter is around the corner once again. For most of us the thought brings happy expecta­tions of going home, taking a break from classes, and even the end of any self-imposed sacrifice made for the Lenten season. 
It is easy at this time of year to forget that there are those for whom self-sacrifice is a necessity instead of a choice, that there are people nearby that go without not only during Lent but all the time. 300 of these individuals and families won't be forced to go without a celebratory Easter dinner, how­ever. thanks in large part to the St. Vincent DePaul Society in South Bend and Notre Dame volunteers. 
Yesterday the World Hunger Coalition Easter Basket Food Project took place at Stepan Center. Supported by Campus Ministry, this program swings into action every Thanksgiving and Easter to provide those less fortunate than ourselves with a large meal. 
Approximately 300 baskets of food were organized and dis­tributed by ND student volun­teers and then given to drivers designated by the St. Vincent DePaul Society for delivery to pre-registered families and individuals here in South Bend. Each basket contained a turkey (100 of which were donated by ND faculty and administration), canned vegetables, fruit, desserts donated by the dining hall, and other assorted food­stuffs. 
The needy aren't the only people who benefit from the Easter Basket Project: the vol­unteers do as well. Sophomore Trang Bui describes the feeling as the "gratification of helping somebody and knowing that I'm making a difference ... [the Project] is not just giving money, it's working with orga­nizations that are teaching peo­ple to become self-sufficient." 
Bui became involved in ser­vice work in high school and has continued to help others in her college career.. The Knott Hall resident began working for others because she "thought that there were a lot of prob­lems in the world with hunger, so I found organizations that were doing something about it." 
After her second year of vol­unteering for the Easter Basket Project here at ND, Bui says she can "definitely recommend it to others because there are so many people who need help out there... it's a pretty large scale program so anyone who helps out Feally is making a big difference." 
Performing service also helps volunteers "gain a greater un­derstanding of the world and your place in it," according to senior Craig Anzilotti. "Service kets. The students were responsible for the physical project and its financing, but Martin did not seem to mind. She said that all three members. of her group chipped in to pay for the goodies, and that the project was not in any way a strain. 
The results of Weber's assign­ment are phenomenal. Martin's group alone made forty baskets,. 
"I had heard that one group made seventy," Martin said. 
That is a lot of baskets, "if you figure that each group made at least forty." 
Forty baskets per group multiplied by approximately thirteen groups would create about 520 Easter baskets. 
The baskets were put togeth­er Thursday and Friday after­noon of last week on the stu­dents' own time. Delivery was yesterday. Martin noted, "for a lot of these kids, this is all they're going to get for Easter." 
Service projects such as this one are what Easter is all about. Spreading happiness is something we should all become involved in. It gener­ates a good feeling in the giver as well as the recipient. This project actively involved a Saint Mary's class with its subject, and these students are eagerly awaiting the children's response. Apparently, the youngsters often reply with "cute little thank-you notes." It may be a happy Easter for everyone. 
is a great way to get educated, build friendships, meet people from different backgrounds and understandings, and to open your mind." 
Anzilotti draws on years of service experience in making these statements. He started the Community Service Club while in high school, a service organization for the students to participate in to gain exposure to service work. 
Anzilotti has also participated in many service activities at ND and in South Bend over the course of his four years here, including service field seminars and a summer service project at the Center for the Homeless in South Bend, a project which led to his current employment at the Center. 
Anzilotti has participated in -­the Easter Basket Project for four straight years and says that he enjoys every minute of it. "Service to me is what bas­ketball is to a basketball player -it's just something I love to do. The reason I get involved in it is because I love it." 
If you missed out on this opportunity to help others and you want to get involved in ser­vice, there are literally dozens of organizations and clubs on campus that can help you get started. A quick call to Campus Ministry or the Center for Social Concerns can lead to an exciting, fulfilling experience. Just ask Trang or Craig. 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 29, 1994 
-
Warriors shoc~ed by leader's move 
Hoosier recruits on display 
ByTOMSHARP 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
Kevin O'Neill, who guided Marquette to a spot in the NCAA tournament the last two years, was hired Monday to coach a floundering Tennessee basketball program. 
O'Neill replaces the ousted Wade Houston, whose team went 5-22 this year and 65-90 in five seasons. 
Tennessee was reported to be offering O'Neill a four-year deal worth $1.7 million. 
Marquette had been paying him about $150,000 a year. His contract at Marquette was to run through the 1996-97 sea­son and reportedly contained a $125,000 buyout clause. 
In five seasons at Marquette, O'Neill had a record of 86-62, including 20-8 and 24-9 the last two years. Marquette· played in the Southeastern Regional on Thursday in Knoxville, losing to eventual champion Duke by 10 points. 
Marquette was O'Neill's first head coaching job at the major college level. In his first year, 1989-90, the Warriors were 15­14 and went to the NIT. The next season they were 11-18, then improved steadily: 16-13 in 1992, 20-8 last year, and 24­9. 
The Warriors won the Great Midwest Conference regular­season championship this year with a 10-2 record. They ad­vanced to the Southeast Re­gional in Knoxville with first­and second-round victories over Southwestern Louisiana and Kentucky. 
O'Neill was the Great Midwest 

•'I saw him head-but{ that 
Photo courtny of Marquette Sports lnlormallon 
guy (freshman Sherron
Marquette basketball coach Kevin O'Neil will be leaving the Warriors to 
Wilkerson) on TV, but you've
manage Tennessee next season. 
got to b~ strict with kids,:' she 
Conference Coach of the Year letics director at Marycrest 
said, ,;,'l:_pt not afraid of
in both 1993, when he was co­College in Davenport, Iowa, in 
whether h~'ll touch my son or
winner, and '94. The back-to­1982. 
not. Why? Because (Knight's)
hack 20-victory seasons were He moved to the University of 
a parent, too. He's going to
Marquette's first since 1981-82. Delaware as an assistant coach 
make my son better.''
O'Neill, 37, is a native of for two seasons. He was an as­
Knight has said he collided
Chateaugay, N.Y. He coached in sistant for two more years at 
heads with Wilkerson acddeih 
high school and junior college Tulsa, and for three years un­
tally. Eii~ili' •.. ...
until becoming coach and ath-der Lute Olson at Arizona. 
The Hoosiers will hav two 
Summer Resort Jobs · Earn to $12/hr.+ tips. Locations include: 
NOTICES 
Hawaii, Florida, Rocky Mountains, 
Alaska, New England, elc. for $$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S delails call: 1·800·807·5950 ext everyday but sunday until 5:30pm R5584. 233-2342 ND ave & Howard 
Jordan's Ford, Toyola, Volvo, I am looking for a ride lo either Mistubishi in Mishawaka is currenl!y Syracuse (or upslale New York) or seeking a Campus Representative Hartford for Easler, willing to share to aid in the process of sales gas & tolls. Call Sean, 3479 throughout our dealership. 
Commission based position. Interested parties please contact 
ILOST & FOUND I Mr. Jim Hoffer at (219)259-1981 ext. 354. 
FOUND: Gold·like good sized ear­
ing. Call x4358. We need a ride to MN for Easter. 
Will pay gas & lolls. Call Brian or FOUND: a really great watch in Kory Debartolo room 155 on 3121. Call to 4·3049 identify. x3486 
Going to Dayton over Easter/ Will FOUND -GOLD AND BLACK help drive,$! Jen 2801 WATCH AT STEPAN COURTS. 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN· NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC· ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN· TEED SUCCESS! (919)929·4398 ext A29. 
SUMMER LIFE GUARD We need 1 or 2 fully-certified life­guards for our miniature wave pool in Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr. Complele season hours. Season 5/25/94-Labor day, 1994. Weekends only alter school starts. Call Jim Wyllie 277-1335. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Earn up to $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545·4155 ext A5584 
FOR A GOOD TIME CALL MEAl ­273-5924. 
• FOUND BOOK • "PEACEWORKS" found in B1 lot behind the 
Univ.Ciub call#8210 to claim 
Found Money in Riley, third floor Contact Katie, 277 6703 
LOST·LOST·LOST·LOST Gold Bracelel 
WANTED 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1·208·860­0219 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING · Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land·Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1·206·634·0468 ext. C5584 I desperately need a ride to St. Louis for Easter Break. Will help pay gas and tolls. 
Please call Tim at1462. 
CAMPUS REP NEEDED NOW! GREAT PAY$$ MAINTAIN CO. CAMPUS BILLBOARD ADS CALL NOW! 708 297·7521 
SUBWAY is NOW HIRING If you are an enthusiastic. depend­able self starter, we would like to lalk to you. Flexible hours and friendly atmosphere. Call Jacki or Penny at 277-7744 for an interview. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Earn up to $2000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land·Tour com· panies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1·206·634·0468 ext C6675 CO·ED SUMMER CAMP IN MAINE seeks staff from 6-17\o 8·21 to teach athletics, tennis, ropes cours­es, rock climbing, backpacking, swimming, fishing, sailing, waterski· ing, performing arts and many more. Age 20+. Contact Camp Wekeela's winter office at 1·800· 959-3177. 
FOR RENT 
BED "N BREAKFAST HOMES· ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291·7153 
COLLEGE PARK 
CONDOMINIUMS ·1/4 mile from library ·New appliances ·2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -Washer & Dryer units -Large closets ·Covered parking ·Security System ·Large balconies 
Units now available­$660 per month ..... Going Quickly!! ******....CALL: 272-0691********-* 
o/:::· 
other newcomers who were redshirts this past season, 
··· ).:nwii INDIANAJlJhs'*'' which ended with atloss 
lndiana llriiversity basketball fans won't have to wait long to get a glimpse of the future. 
They can see two top recruits play on television Sunda,yin the .McDOn[t}4's All-Sta.r(}rune at St. John's University and on April 9, they can watch three of them play in person at Market Square Arena. 
The re~ruJts who will play SundaY••..• ~r~ ,§·foot•8 ·.An~ra~ Patterson arid 6·3 guard,Neil Reed. 
Patterson is a powerful play­er from Abilene, Texas and is considered. ~ne. of the. top. high school . .re~tP~.t~)n the. natip~. 
Reed started high schoolat South Spencer in Rockport, Ind., played his sophomore year at Bloomington South then moved to Metarie, L~. He i§rega~~~d asa pur~ slim>t~r.r >... . Joining t}ie pair at Market Square Arena will be 6-7 for­ward Robert Hodgson of Mastic Beach, N.Y. Later they will be teamed with a fourth o11t-of~state recruit, 6-6for· ward Charlie Miller of Miami _,.Florida's Mr. Basketball. 
Miller's mother, Inetha, said she was not worried about the demaxuis cj:ul.eh Bob Knight Friday to Boston College ill the NCAA tournament. They are 6-10 forward Robbie Eggers of Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, and 6·4 guard Robert Foster ofLos An­geles. 
The team is losing departing seniors Damon Bailey and Pat Graham. but two starters ­Alan Henderson and Brian Evans -return. Two. part• 
. time starters, Wilkerson and Todd Lindeman, also return, as do Steve Hart. Patrick Knight and 7-foot Richard Mandeville. 
Bailey said the freshmen coming in "are really going to have step up big." 
"They've got the talent, they just have to go out and do the things coach wants them to do;'' he said. "And those are the things that we didn't do at tinies this year. It's something they've got to be focused on every time they step on the floor." 
Graham said that every year, "there's someone else.'' 
"Since I've been here Eric Anderson left, then you've got guys like Calbert (Cheaney) who left and you've got Damon 
..• leaving this year and he'll be 
nia.kescinhisplayers;'~'•• .ox.. 'ii1:i:'··· '"" talked about for years.· 
"In a couple of years no one will know me and (Todd) Leary and Bailey's names," Graham said. "There's always someone stepping to the fore­front. Indiana basketball is going to survive no matter who they have." 
And for those counting down the days, the Hoosiers open t.he 1994-95 season in a 
.'!ktoul'nament in Maui the three . days before Thanksgiving. · 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
1, 2. & 3 BEDROOM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE Looking for a ride lo Cleveland,
TICKETS
NOW & FALL. STARTING AT OH for Easter and can leave $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER-Thursday morning. I will help out TIES.272·6306 1·Way, INDY/ORUNAPLES, $175 with expenses ... can you help me? 
Local 219·654·7222 or 219·654· Thanks! Moving home for lhe summer? Let 3477 Call Mara at 284·5117 
"Hertz Penske truck renlal help make lhe job easier. Call Kelly or HEY SENIORS!!! HELP Rob-Are you still checking for your Judie a\291·1414 for a quole on I need exira graduation lix. personals ... ! hope so!! Have a our one-way unlimited mileage call Keary al 233-5591 greal day! Love, Melanie rates. 
TRTLE CRK TOWNHOUSE AVAIL-Sprung from cages on highway 9 
PERSONAL
ABLE FOR SUMMER 
CALL 273-6564 FOR INFO There once was a guy who turned Math tuloring available .... 22. Senior honors math major will tutor He was so stressed out, he didn'l 
Wrigleyville Apartment ·Avail. May any 100 or 200-level math courses. know what to do. 1, Lg 3 BR in graystone two flat, possibly higher levels as well. Council meelings he had to attend. new kitchen with d/w, new bath, Times and rates negotiable. A night at the bars he could not hardwood floors, easy street prkg, Call Jell@ 277·5612 spend. near el. WID incl. 1080/mo Gee, Franks, why don't you gel a 312/472·7775 Louis '84 T-clue? 
Le Fromage of the Month Cancel the Council and go out 
FOR SALE 
Macintosh Classic, lmagewriter printer, system 7 and tons of soft· ware: Word, Page, Excel ... 
$500 or besl offer @ 273-3920 
HOUSE 4 SALE 
1.5 miles from campus; 3 bedroom fenced yard; very clean; great, safe neighborhood on Northwood Dr. $48,500. Call 288·7490. 
IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS REALTY 272·6306,232-1466 
For Sale: Commodore 128 w/ printer and software. $250 or your best offer. Must sell now! Call Heidi x4046 
College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Balh, w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to 
P.O. Box 4075. Soulh Bend, IN 46634 Roses are red tonight Dining Hall fruit is brown It's your birthday, you have the This poem goes to right The guy who likes to Although il's only Tuesday, 
ROCK THIS TOWN It's still a great Booze-day. I just wanted to know C'mon & cui loose, you're too If you would be free uptighl! To dance with me April 9th ·Happy B'day, lhe limerick queen Ya know what I mean 
P.S. Holy Bajoly! 
Vern ·······················*·············· 
MARCIA, MARCIA, MARCIA!!!!!!
....................,. ..................
meg· the countdown is on! just 5 
days to gol 
whoopsie, I'm ??? 
In a hurry ... don't worry. Gazers. do as the Roamings do 
FAX IT! at Sean, do you like it when girls louch THE COPY SHOP you? 
LaFortune Student Center NEW LOWER PRICES! HAPPY BIRTHDAY JILL!! 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune Oh my Gosh ... I'm floating !!I 
Student Center is now accepting applications for part-time GOOD LUCK BP SOFTBALL !! 
employment beginning immediately and LC, BC can'l have you 
continuing through next school year. If interested, stop in and cause I'm your lady ... and you are apply. my man ... 


Tuesday, March 29, 1994
Alvarez visitslrls~·p:racti'ce/ 
By TIM SHERMAN ifii'l;~c~iy is. s~:ring, shift~p tp Sports Writer ta:ilba · .. . osley, who has i.Jn~ pressed.. at rec~iver. se~.tlled 
University of Wisconsin head equally~c~pable in the ·· ·k.· coach Barry Alvarez returned ...field. · · ·.· · ·· to his old stomping grounds ·ttt·: • ••• yesterday to visit practice. The Irish continued to prac· 
Notre Dame's ex-defensive tice trick plays yesterday,)u~ 
coordinator, who coached the . nior Ch~rles Sta.fford looks to 
Badgers to an 11-1 record and ' be the replacement for take 
a Rose Bowl victory this past Dawson and Adrlim Jarrell on 
season, was impressed by the .~he reverse. ]n additl?fl• a 
intensity the Irish showed on }~!J.uffle ·pJ:tSS. to J,)errick ~a,yes 
the practice field. was worked on. . ' ' > 
"It looked like a good hard • • • 
practice out there," said AI· '/; . ··.·· . . ..•... . . •··\. 
varez, who seemed impressed s:;:;::,•. With· the loss of place k{bker 
W!th both units, but especially · Kevin Prendergast. the· kick:il1g 
With the defense. game is a major concer 
This is no surprise consider~·· coach L~p. Holtz. . .. 
ing the success he bad with One pQssible solution 
Notre Dame's defensive units. problem is junior Stefan 
Alvarez led the Irish defenders Schrotiner. Schroffner looked 
to the 1988 national champi· colJlfottable behind ZS;4() 
onship. · · ·.·yardS yesterday. making s~ven 
• • • k' of eight kicks. 
Depth at the running back "' ¥ • • • 
position was a problem for the -In addJtion t(),Becto d 
Irish at practice yesterday. Farmer, the Irish were WI h.; 
Neither junior Lee Becton, out wide receiver Mike tyiiller 
who pulled a quadricep mus" (back spasms), tight end ~scar 
cle on Saturday.nor freshman McBride (anklfl). defe{l~ive 
Robert Farmer, who has a linemen Thomas Knight"ttnd 
knee injury. participated in Reggie Fleurima, and defen­
practice. Fullback Marc . sive backs Trayis Davis and 
Edwards was also absent. TW Anthony Swine~; None .o(the 
To fill in, Emmett Mosley, injuries were of a serious 
who has been working at wide nature. 
Becca at her best! 
IElniPllJJ ~ @illb IEfirr11Thl~n1g 
Love, 
Celia, Michelle, Rachael, Sheila, and Susan 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
.. Reflections on Current Contentions" 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for colle1!e graduates interested in exploring the possibility ofa lifetime
TONIGHT!!! 
of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available.
7:30PM Stepan Center 
Call or write for information:
$3 Students, Faculty, and Staff $5 General Public 
Fr. John Conley. C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon. C.S.C.
Reception to follow in the Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 631-63X5 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk _D 

The Observer· SPORTS page 11 
ll'llllidre(PG13) 1:45,4:30,7:15,10 Slliwllla(PG) 1:30,4:15,7, 9:45 BII_,G13) 2, 4:45, 7:30, 9:45 
God gives each 
person one lifetime. What are you doing with youts? 
Have you considered 
loss of his assistants. He did not believe in prohibiting his assistants from talking to other teams about possible coaching positions. "I believe in helping people progress," he said. 
Holtz also said he expected no fall-out from NCAA viola­tions stemming from the off. campus living arrangements of Bryant Young and Jeff Burris. He pointed out that Notre Dame reported the violation immedi­ately. 
"The main thing they [the NCAA) want to know is did you report it, and did you take care of it immediately." 
What concerns Holtz more is Notre Dame's recent recruiting efforts. "I don't think we did as well as we should have," said Holtz. "That's something that needs to be addressed. I don't think it's the caliber we really, truly need." 
Holtz said the main thing Notre Dame needs is a solid re­cruiting base. "We are going to establish a recruiting base in the Mid-West. Make no doubt about it." 
Holtz signed autographs for a half hour before joining Al­varez, who visited practice yes­terday, for a late dinner. 
team will need to continue overachieving if they plan to beat Louisiana State, which Bayliss deems "the most consis­tent team in college tennis." 
The Irish will face the Tigers this afternoon at 3:15 in the Eck Pavilion. LSU, currently ranked No. 27. has ended each of the last twelve seasons in the top ten. 
Taste the 
Worlds
CJfeatest 
Tuna Sandwich. 
Holtz • 
continued from page 16 
Holtz said next year's interior linemen, who switch to 3-4 alignment, will likely be Brian Hamilton, Oliver Gibson and Germaine Holden. He praised the play of Holden, who logged 
time in '92 but saw limit­ed action last season. 
"When they come to be seniors," Holtz said, 

"they pay Ron Powlus more atten­tion to what pros are paid." 
"We only have three or four seniors on defense," he added, "but we can win." 
The kicking game remains a prime concern for Holtz in 1994. "I promised we would not be in the same situation we were in last year," he said. "We're not in the same situa­tion we were a year ago. We're worse." 
Holtz said that Ron Powlus or Stefan Schrofner could get the punting duties. "Or we could go for it on 4th and 8," he said. 
held up the play of running back Robert Farmer. "The guy you're going to be shocked at is Robert Farmer." Holtz said he was comfortable with players at running back, tight end, re­ceiver and quarterback. The offensive line, however, is un­dergoing a facelift. 
"The offensive line is a prob­lem because this is the first year without established play­ers," said Holtz. In years past, he pointed out, established line­men such as Mirko Jirkovich, Gene McGuire and Todd Norman were on hand to push the younger players along. Ryan Leahy and Mark Zataveski return, but they saw sporadic action on the line last season. 
Holtz left no doubt about the starting quarterback. Ron Powlus is listed as the definite starter. But he said Thomas Krug would push Powlus. 
Coaches are still wary of Powlus's twice-broken collar bone. "We aren't going to allow him to be hit [this Spring)." said Holtz. "He will be hit in the Fall." 
While Holtz talked about the probable starters for next year's team, he said he har­bored no bitterness about the 
Moving to the offense, Holtz 
11n1 TIII(PI13l 1:45, 4:15.7, a 
-C.l3-1~13) 1!:111, !:45, 5, 7:15, t45 tlllliii.IIII(PI13)!,4:31,7,1:31 Ia W.O.: Pll lllllllllm13) 1!:45, ~. 5:•• 7:45 ll'llllllrl:13)11 1~13)!:15,4:45, 7:31, 1D 
I! llilll!IIIDrll1, 4,1:45, 1:15 
Upset 
continued from page 16 
ble upset of the weekend. 
"With these victories," com­mented Coach Bayliss, "we've begun to overachieve to a cer­tain extent and form our own identity." 
The Notre Dame men's tennis 

~------------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 29, 1994 
-Irish impressive in outdoor openers over weekend 
I 
L ­
By WILL MARTIN Spons Writer 
After a impressive indoor season, Notre Dame coach Joe Piane believes strong showings in the first three outdoor meets will give the Irish track team the momentum it needs to con­tinue the results for the rest of the year. 
"The team had a good indoor season, but we expect to have a great outdoor season," said Piane. 
This past weekend, the Irish track team split up into three groups to compete in the Eastern Kentucky Invitational, the Raleigh Relays, and the Purdue Invitational. 
"Things pretty much fell into place as to where we sent the students," said Piane. "We wanted to send each kid where he or she would receive the greatest competition." 
At the .Eastern Kentucky Invitational, the team posted its most successful outing of the year, placing runners in the top five in 20 different events. 
Leading the way for the men's team was senior sprinter Dean Lytle, who tied for first in the 200m dash with a time of 21.64 and placed second in the lOOm dash by only .02 of a second. In the 400m hurdles, freshman Troy Langevine placed first, while senior Chris Lilly finished in second place. Also. junior Joe Curran won the BOOm run. 
"My performance was en­couraging because this was only my second outdoor meet in college," said Lytle. "The times were better than I expected." 
The women's team was equal­ly successful, winning first place in five different events. In the lSOOm run, the top five places were occupied by Notre Dame runners, led by sopho­more Amy Siegel in first and freshman Carolyn Long in sec­ond. The lOOm hurdles were also dominated by the Irish, who captured the top four spots. Junior Lisa Janek fin­ished first, and junior Monica Cox grabbed second. 
First place finishes were also brought home by freshman Alison Howard in the 400m dash, sophomore Erica Peterson in the 400m hurdles, and junior Becky Alfieri in the BOO meters. 
"The women's team did a good job," said Piane. "Since there was no women's competi­tion at Purdue, the majority went to Kentucky, and they re­sponded with a good perfor­mance. I thought Lisa Janek and Erica Peterson ran well." 
The Irish relay squads were not exempt from the winning ways, either. Both the men's and women's 4x400 meter relay teams won first place at the meet. The men's team, made up of Langevine, Curran, sophomore Aaron Schielke, and junior Rich Antoine, won with a time of 3:19.97, while the women's team of Long, Peterson, Howard, and fresh­man Heidi Altman crushed the opposition, winning by five sec­onds over second-place Western Kentucky. 
In addition to the success had 
at the Eastern Kentucky 
Invitational, other members of 
the track team continued the 
winning ways at the Purdue 
Invitational and the Raleigh 
Relays. 
The Irish only brought home one victory from West Lafayette, Indiana, but top five finishes in other events allowed the team to consider its perfor­mance at Purdue a success, according to Piane. 
"We sent many of our com­petitors in the field to Purdue because the other meets did not offer all of the events," said Piane. "They may not have won, but they placed well in a tough field." 
In the 3000m steeplechase, sophomore Mike Smedley placed first, after finishing with a time of 9:24.3. In other events, senior Chris Ross fin­ished third in the 400m inter­mediate hurdles, freshman Pat Gorman placed fourth in the BOOm, sophomore Todd Johnston placed fourth in the high jump, and freshman Greg Wilson brought home third in the javelin. 
The team also sent a small delegation of athletes to North Carolina State University for the Raleigh Relays. 
In Raleigh, Jeff Hojnacki fin­ished first in the lSOOm event for freshman, and junior John Cown placed fourth in the 3000m steeplechase. 
Now, the team must use this success as a springboard for the remainder of the outdoor season and translate the confi­dence into continued impres­sive performances, according to Piane. 
"This weekend was a great start for the outdoor season. It was nice to allow many differ­ent people to compete," said Piane. "But. now, things really start rolling as we compete in Indianapolis and Tennessee in upcoming weekends." . 
It will be in these meets that the true test will come for the Irish. 


Tuesday, March 29, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Sport~·:·'•lal~: Tonight {rq:gi ~.;9 p.m. ~Ii WYFI 640 AM. Featurini'NCAA champion . · ~~s a_nd w~meri~flte?nis stars Wendy·Crabtree,~nd Holyn LQ. ·... ' ;n·······•.•·•.. ii•··.i·r·. :;>i& 
RecSports Is offering IH team tennis with. the ~~adllne being April 7. Captains' meeting for this.wjll be at 5 p~J#; on the same 
date in the JACC Auditorium. ,... .......•.•,. . ··.· ·····•···· 
RecSports is re-offering l~ D,l~.t(s 12" softb double e~atiqntoUI'llame :wi~~tlte d~~d.Uhe captains''fneeting for"t~is · be.at.5:30 p. · 
Auditorium on ~e. sani~,da ............. l.~prrns may h the tournament alld off~~ampus may. orlly have first three that sign-up), You may start submit: ting, teams on Wed. M:Q,r·•3<tat 10,a:m: The. to played on April 16 and 17~ If yuor donn decid team please call our office at 1·6100. · ' 
on~ team in teams (the 
~-submit­~t will be to have a 
"21 and still carryin.f!four toothbrushes!" 
Congrats -~7fi~ JK~~ Love-Mom, Dad, & Pat 
Belles rolling, ready for Kalamazoo -­
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The 15-3 Saint Mary's softball team will travel to Kalamazoo College this afternoon for a 3:00 
p.m. game against the opposing Hornets. 
While the Belles are having one of their most impressive seasons, the Hornets, who currently have a 1-7 record, have been struggling. 
According to coach Don Cromer, the pitchers will be the key to tomorrow's game. "If our pitchers do well," said senior captain Stacey Miller, "we should have a good game." 
This puts the pressure on Maria Vogel and Michelle Limb, who will pitch this afternoon. This will be the first full game Limb will play in since early March due to shoulder pains. Limb was allowed to throw five innings in last week's game against Anderson University and was back in full force, according to Cromer. 
Although Kalamazoo College has a weak record, tomorrow's game should be an exciting one. 
"They have been strong in the past, and we had some good matches before," said Miller. "If we keep hitting like we've been hitting," said Cromer, "we are going to be tough." 
Commodores advance to NIT finals 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Billy McCaffrey scored 28 points and Ronnie McMahan 27 and Vanderbilt held Askia Jones to 17 points in an 82-76 victory over Kansas State on Monday night in the NIT semi­finals. 
The Commodores (20-11) used a matchup zone most of the time to frustrate Jones, who scored 62 points last Thursday against Fresno State in the quarterfinals. This time, he was 4-for-11 from the field, in-eluding 1-for-6 from 3-point range. 
Vanderbilt advanced to Wednesday night's champi­onship game to play the winner of the other semifinal between Villanova and Siena. 
McCaffrey and McMahan were too strong offensively for Kansas State (20-13), which was led by point guard Anthony Beane with 19 points. 
McCaffrey and McMahan freed themselves for jumpers or went around the defense to score on drives through the lane. When they weren't scor­ing, 6-foot-10 center Chris Lawson was. He finished with 14 points and combined with McCaffrey and McMahan to score 46 of Vanderbilt's 50 points after halftime. 
The Commodores outshot Kansas State 57 percent to 38 from the field. There were 49 fouls, but neither team had an unfair advantage. 
Jones gave Kansas State a 49­47 lead with his most impres­sive play of the night, a base­line drive and dunk with 14:08 left. Kansas State twice got the lead up to five, but Vanderbilt came back with an 8-0 run to lead 65-62 with seven minutes left. The Wildcats stayed close with foul shots, but didn't get the deficit below two in the final 6 1/2 minutes. 
McCaffrey hit two foul shots with 54 seconds left to put Van­derbilt ahead 80-73, but Deryl Cunningham made a 3-pointer with 26 seconds left to cut the deficit to four. 
Vanderbilt, however, used a long inbounds pass to set up Frank Seckar for an uncon­tested layup that wrapped up the victory. 
The loss ended Kansas State's 16-game winning streak against non-Big Eight teams, a streak dating to a season-open­ing loss to Southern Mississippi. Cunningham finished with 12 points and Demond Davis and Belvis Noland had 10 each for Kansas State, which will play in a consolation game Wednesday. 
McCaffrey was the leading scorer in the first half with 13 points. Neither team shot well, and neither led by more than five points. The Commodores closed the half with a 17-9 run to lead 32-29 at intennission. 

-

~~-----~­



r 
-

Tuesday, March 29, 1994 
The Obeotver/Eric Ruethllng Sherri Vitale and the women's tennis team were tied 3-3 with No. 6 Duke when the umpire controversially suspended play due to darkness. 
MEDIEVAL DRAMA IN PERFORMANCE 
presents-
THE SUMMONING OF 
EVERYMAN 
FIVE SESSIONS WEDNESDAYS 6:00-7:30 PM MARCH 30, APRIL 6, 13, 20 & 27 OPEN TO STUDENTS & STAFF $8.00 CLASS FEE 
EQUIPMENT PROVIDED BUT BRING OWN EQUIPMENT WHEN POSSIBLE 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE ATRECSPORTS FIRST CLASS TO BE HELD IN JACC ARENA 

631-6100 
~~ 
take a 
-··---------~---------~-------------~ -~. --------~-­
Tuesday, March 29, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER 
HAVE Yoo EVE!<. HeARD of fH!.S 
PE PSOO 'ojf\O I:; BLACK.P\AIWiln ME., 
.(au-F,CJ{;> 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
GREET\t-.IGS. I f...IJI BlDR· 
FRo!<\ 211<\TO\C · 5 . I 1-\A.\f( COME 10 SIJBJ\JGA.\E 11\E \.1UMI\N Rii.CE. Do WlT RE'SIS\. 
WI-I'! \.1\lMI>-N'S? B£(1>.1$£, IN .b--\l0\1\0N ltl m'cW.. VI\\..UE A.') S\..ii.IJE Lt>-~R. 11-\E'i 1\RE 1\\SO 0£LICIO\l'S /\Nil t\\J\RIT\0\.15.' 
\.11>. 1-\t>. \.11\! 
JAY HOSLER 
BUI FIR'ST, FOR ioUR Efl-R\1-\ C\JSTOM Of "51-\0W f...\'-1\) TELL·; I W\L\.. H\-1\BI\ ')()1-/\E or: 
0\JR TERRIF'{\~G 'NHI=Ot--IR.'{. 

Tapeworms in a cow's stomach 
OF INTEREST · 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 23 "My salad days 47 Sulk angrily when I was 48 Many Dickens 
1 Scroogian "· stories, originally comments Shakespeare 
52 Civil War 5 Grandson of 30 Favorite dog currencyAdam 
name 
56 Merit 9 Biblical 31 Closes in on 
57 Nintendo hero 
possessive 32The East 
58 One of the 12 Sheltered, at 33 Word in a price Simpsons sea 
35 Volcano spew 59 Sot's problem 13 Spot for 36 Deli cry 60 Jot Spartacus 37 Cause for 61 Prepares the 14 Carnival ride cry 
liniment dinner table 
38 Not-so-prized fellow DOWN 
15 "Ho, ho, ho" 
fur 40 River inlet DINING HALL 
18 Seems 1 Mexican 41 Bucky Dent 
19 Hockey's peninsula
slew it at 
Bobby etal. 2 Crooked 
Fenway Park in 20 Blue Eagle 1978 
3Maids 4 Moon goddess ·
initials 45 Zorba portrayer s Misreckons
21 Feasted 46 Tennis call 6 Born 7 Indivisible ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE a--Marcos, Tex . 9 Arid region of 
• R A B w A R M •
I IG 
STAY REAR AREAL 
India JASON KELLY'S PICK
24 Extent 42 Nothing: Fr. 50 Ultimate10 Chick watchers 25 National 
43 Pianist Peter 51 Madrid Mmes. 
,!!_J_ R E ECRU li!!_~ 
11 Thus far 
ARA STE.CAP LTS 
treasuries 
13 Take with­44 Part of rock's 52 Dropout's
'j)";\~ T~NDEMS 'f"(s 
26 Tidy up 
of salt C.S.N. &Y. degree: Abbr. 
"'E'T~ E R T I L E F 0 At 
27 Teen heartthrob DEEMED.SEN ORLY 
14 Utility employee Priestley 47 Brotherhood 53 Status letters, OPEN¥EDLY 
16 It comes in balls perhaps
28 Undeliverable 48Comic bit 17 Bad news at a letter, in 54"Say-" ,.
B ••~:~ ... IE GE S 49 "I cannot tell talent show post-office talk ~~ R E E T N A A R .;_ ~~ 
55Dernier­
21 "Bull--" 29 13th-century
.Q_~~ DRESS~~~ 
(Costner film) invader
KEN ESP.PAS OUR 
22 Psyche parts 34 Monastery head 
Get answers to any three clues
"Errrro"N APES SEA~ 
23Word in a 38 D.C. legislator 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
NEXUS DICE USED 
monarch's 39 El Greco's 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
¥RATE SETS RIE D ¥ 
name "View of-" 



-
\J 
~\)
~ 
• CLUB • • CLUB • 
..
<P ~ <P ~ 
~NlO ~NlO 

TAKE A TRIP AROUND THE WORLD ON WED NITE! 
-----.~-­
SPORTS 

page 16 
Holtz speaks at St. Ed's Forum 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI Sports Writer 
If Lou Holtz is still woozy from the topsy-turvy 1993 football season and the loss of four as­sistant coaches, he put on a good act last night's at St. Edward's Hall Forum. 
Holtz, who spoke in the hall chapel to accom­modate the large crowd, gave a preview of the 1994 edition of Irish football while telling stories and offering his thoughts on success. 
In the question and answer period, Holtz addressed many concerns on the minds of fans and the press. Holtz glowed when asked about the prospect of Barry Alvarez coaching the Irish when Holtz leaves. Alvarez, currently coach at Wisconsin, has the same type of clause in his contract Holtz had at Minnesota-if the Notre Dame job opens up, he is free to take it. 
Whether Alvarez would get the job is not defi­nite. But, said Holtz, "It's very possible that he would. He's a tremendous individual. I would like to think he would be a prime guy." 
Holtz talked firsJ; about the probable starters for next fall. His praise fell first on the lineback­ing corps, which has a new system to digest with new defensive head Bob Davie. "The most pleas­ant surprise of the spring has been Jeremy Sample," said Holtz. "He has been playing out­standing." Sample saw time late last season at outside linebacker 
Holtz also highlighted the play of Bertrand Berry, a six-foot-three, 230 pound outside line­backer who bench presses 420 pounds and runs the 40-yard dash in 4.5 seconds. "The bad news is he doesn't have a younger brother," said Holtz, poking fun at the other probable starter in the interior, Justin Goheen. 
see HOLTZ I page 11 

Junior guard Ryan Leahy will be looked to for leadership in next year's inexperienced offensive nne. The loss of senior stand-outs Tim Ruddy and Todd Norman leaves a many question marks for coming season. 
Leahy looming large for line 
By MIKE NORBUT 
"We didn't just lose our starters," he contin­Assistant Sports Editor ued. "We lost the starters and their backups. We lost six players overall. That's hurting our 
Having to fill big shoes is nothing new for progress so far."
• 
Ryan Leahy. To compensate, offensive line coach Joe 
Expectations have always loomed large for Moore has moved Leahy to right tackle, a the junior offensive lineman. His grandfather, move that has presented quite a challenge for Frank, was the head coach of the Irish from the Yakima, WA native. 1941-43 and from 1946-53, capturing four "Playing tackle is a lot of work," Leahy said. national championships during that time. "The pass rushers are a lot faster on the out­
But the younger Leahy has come out of these side." shadows to make a name for himself in his His efforts to fit this adjustment have kept 
own right, earning a starting role on the Irish offensive line. Now he finds himself having to step into a slot vacated by tackles Aaron Taylor and Todd Norman. 
"Notre Dame has always had great tackles," Leahy said. "Aaron Taylor is the best. He was the Lombardi Award winner. That's a huge accomplishment. He was just so productive at tackle." 
Leahy was a mainstay on one of the nation's best offensive lines last year, starting seven games at right guard. However, with the loss of Taylor, Norman, and center Tim Ruddy to graduation, Leahy has found him­
-
self with junior guard Mark Zataveski as the lone remaining starters. 
Tuesday, March 29, 1994 

The Observer/Alan Smith 
Coach Lou Holtz spoke of many matters at last night's St. Ed's Forum. 
him practicing his footwork and technique long after practice has ended on numerous occasions this spring. 
Along with Leahy's switch to tackle, Notre Dame's coaching staff has been getting a look at freshmen Mike Doughty and Chris Clevenger at tackle and sophomores Jeremy Akers and Will Lyell at guard. 
The amount of experience this squad has, however, does not compare with offensive lines of previous years. But Leahy remains confident. 
"Coach Moore's philosophy is that he picks the five best linemen and they get the playing time," he contin­ued. "It will all come together in the end. It always does." 
Irish upset Duke, sweep matches in Carolina 
By PHIL LANGER Sports Writer 
The 16th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team solidified its reemergence as a national collegiate tennis powerhouse this weekend, with two 4-3 upset squeakers over No. 6 Duke and No. 21 North Carolina. 
"After coming so close so many times to grab one, it feels fantastic to close the deal," commented Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss, who has seen his team end up on the losing end of too many 4-3 matches lately. 
The two major wins were made a reality with clutch performances by sophomore Jason Pun at the No. 6 singles slot. 
The first of the two terriffic showings by Pun took place last Friday when the Irish faced the Blue Devils. Pun's teammate and Irish captain, fifth-year senior Andy Zurcher, had just upset No. 6 Chris Pressley, a pere­nial favorite to win the NCAA's, by the score 6-4, 3-6, 6-3. It soon became clear that Friday's match-up would be decided by the outcome of a battle in the number-six singles slot. 
In a match that took six hours, Pun defeat­ed Duke freshman Sven Koehler 6-7, 6-3, 7­5, to clinch the win over the sixth-ranked Blue Devils. 
"We're not talented enough to completely overwhelm everybody," stated Coach Bayliss, "but we have enough courage and tenacity so no one can beat us without a struggle . 
"This weekend's unlikely hero, Jason Pun, proves that we don't have any soft spots in our line-up," he added. "The bottom half of the lineup was simply outstanding." 
The Irish didn't have long to celebrate before facing No. 21 North Carolina on Sunday. Despite Zurcher's 6-4. 6-2 loss to nineteenth-ranked David Caldwell, the Irish were able to pick up four singles wins from freshman phenom Ryan Simme (6-1, 7-6). sophmores Mike Sprouse (6-4, 6-1), and John Jay O'Brien (6-4, 6-1) and, to once again clinch the Irish victory, Pun fought for a 6-1, 4-6, 6-3 win. 
Senior Todd Wilson was upset in a 6-2, 3­6, 6-3 match, and the doubles teams went 1­2 with senior Allan Lopez and partner Ryan Simme providing the sole win, but the Irish had already captured their second inproba­
see UPSET I page 118 

