
Wednesday, November 2,1994 • Vol. XXVI No.43 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Student threatened at gunpoint on Eddy St. 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
PE Resident 
A female Notre Dame student 
Assaul
was assaulted late Monday night while walking several blocks south of campus, according to South Bend Police. 
At about 11:40 p.m. the stu­dent, a 20-year-old Pasquerilla East resident, was walking south in the 500 block of Eddy Street between Cedar and Miner Streets with her two roommates, police said. 
She reported that she was approached by three or four black males in their 20's., one of whom pulled out what appeared to be a handgun and pointed it at her. He reportedly said, "Give me what you got." 
Police said when she told him she did not have anything on her, he hit her over the head with the gun. She and her two roommates then ran south on Eddy to the Lafayette Square Apartments and called police. 
Making music 



Jurors view Rita videotape 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
Jurors in the John Rita trial heard for the first time from the defendant, and listened to testi­mony from the state trooper who administered a Breathalizer test to Rita as the trial completed its seventh day. 
The case could go to the jury as early as Friday. 
Prosecutor Michael Barnes showed the jury a videotaped statement Rita made to police a few hours after the fatal crash that claimed the life of Notre Dame freshman Mara Fox. Rita, 25, of Springfield Virginia, is charged with leaving the scene of that accident and causing a death while driving drunk. 
The 18 year old Fox, of Oak­ton, Virginia, was walking back to campus with friends early last November 13 when she was struck by a hit-and-run motorist on Douglas Road near the intersection with Indiana Route 23. Fox later died of the massive injuries she sustained in the crash. 
In the video statement, Rita, a graduate of Notre Dame Law school, told St. Joseph County 

Graduate student Denise Young listens to the work of Mary Strebinger during violin lessons at Crowley Music Hall. 
police that he was attempting to avoid an oncoming car that seemed to be crossing into his lane as he proceeded west on Douglas. 
"I hit something. I don't know if it was a deer.. .I know I hit something. Everyone knows something," Rita said in a diffi­cult to understand recording. "I freaked out, parked my car. and my friends took me back to my place. My friends sought out police." 
Rita said he hoped he had hit an animal. He added that his friends attempted to calm him, and get him to bed at his Uni­versity Park apartment, while they went to try to determine what happened. 
When police asked if Rita had been drinking, he said he had about three beers, and a shot of liqueur, as he and his friends partied after the Notre Dame­Florida State pep rally. 
Rita told police that he did not think he was drunk, and did not drink after he returned to his apartment. County police arrived and arrested Rita there some two and one half hours after the crash. 
State Trooper Kevin Kubsch told the court that after Rita's arrest, he was taken to the St. Joseph County Jail for a blood alcohol test with a device called an Intoxilizer. Rita refused to take a test in a portable ma­chine police had with them. 
Kubsch, who has been certi­fied to give such test since 1981. described the way the breathalizer works, and re­counted the directions he gave to Rita that night. 
The result of the test showed that Rita's blood alcohol con­tent was .14 percent, or .04 percent over Indiana's legal limit. 
Kubsch testified that Rita told him he stopped drinking about 10 p.m. November 12. 
Jurors also recently got a look at the cracks on the windshield of Rita's blue 1987 Honda Ac­cord, on a field trip to the garage of the St. Joseph County Special Crimes Unit. The wind­shield had been placed in the shell of a Honda similar to Ri­ta's. 
A glass technician testified that when he removed the windshield, he found numerous 
see RITA I page 4 
• HALL Pru::smENT's CmJNCit 

Run to raise money for Fox scholarship 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Writer 
Lyons Hall will hold its second annual Fun Run to raise money for the Mara Fox Scholarship Fund on November 12, it was announced at the Hall Presi­dents Council meeting last night. 
Fox, a freshman last year who lived in Lyons, died November 13, 1993, after being struck by a car on Douglas Road. 
Laura Merritt, co-president of Lyons Hall, said Fox's death had a tremendous impact on both Lyons and the Notre Dame community. 
"I was devastated," she said. "The dorm was devastated." Over 2000 people attended a 
memorial mass at Sacred Heart Basilica on the Tuesday follow­ing her death. 
"The support was overwhelming," Oanh Vo, co­president of the hall, said. "The cards and flowers that her family received ... There was a Jot of support from the school community." 
Merritt and Vo hope that such support continues for this year's run. Last year, only stu­dents from Lyons participated in the run, raising about $5000. This year's run, open to all stu­dents, should raise even more money, according to Sr. Kath­leen Beatty, rector of Lyons Hall. 
"Another $5000 or $10,000 
see LYONS I page 4 

Sorin Society proves beneficial to University coffers 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
News Writer 
Since its creation in 1976, the Edward Sorin Society has rapidly grown to become of the flagship of Notre Dame's Annual Fund, bringing in over $7.7 million dollars last year to the University. 
The Sorin Society is composed of benefactors who contribute $1,000 or more to the University in "unrestricted gifts," or donations which can be used by the Administration as it sees fit, unlike endowment or conditional funds which may only be used for their particular and intended programs. 
The Sorin Society funds have been used in a variety of fash­ions, but have most frequently gone to financial aid for under-equipment in DeBartolo, and remodeling the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and residence halls, according to Notre Dame Public Relations Director Dennis Moore. 


The Sorin Society currently has 5,802 members, and 710 members in the "Founder's Circle," whose members con­tribute $3,000 or more to Notre Dame per year. Corporations also give matching funds to the Sorin Society annually. 
Members contribute annually to Notre Dame to renew their membership, and in return re­ceive honorary membership in the University Club, subscrip­tions to the President's Newsletter and Notre Dame Magazine, a plaque, and invita­
see SORIN I page 4 given to scholarship aid last The University has also used quire and maintain much of the year doubling the amount of aid Sorin Society donations to re-electronic "media on-call" 

1j150 YEARS~! ~ 
Cll 




'"...· 
~ 
~ -_ 

"lit"' . 
I J /~.
!. ... ~ 
::. • It 
SAINT
• z 
I II J Y'S t. I >t"'
J I 
~NOTRE DAME·IN r?C 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, November 2,1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
OfHonorand 
The Hammes 
Plagiarism is always repugnant and repul­sive. It is, in one felled swoop, both lying and thievery in one action. At UC Santa Cruz, my former school, the provosts of the colleges 
were given direct authori- Edward Imbus  
ty in such matters to deal  News Copy Editor  
with plagiarism harshly,  
including expulsion with  
only a single appeal for  

administrative error. Here at Notre Dame, the Office of Student Affairs set up the Honor Committee to severely examine such cases, with penalties equally as fierce. 
And yet still plagiarism occurs at Notre Dame. It came as a shock to me, however, that the first case I would observe was not of a student copying a paper or cheating on a test, but of the bookstore taking a design already in use. . 
Last May, soon after the students left cam­pus, the Hammes began selling a white hat with the word "IRISH" between two horizontal gold bars. Below that the cap stated "University of Notre Dame," with another hor­izontal gold bar below that. This was the exact design that the Class of 1995 had mar­keted earlier that year with great success, and had planned to keep selling this year to fund their various events. 
Upon arriving back at campus and discover­ing what the bookstore had done, the senior class officers raced to reassert their rights over the design, which ended in the La Fortune management agreeing to sell the hats for them. 
The quick work done by the class officers should have been completely unnecessary. The Hammes took the design without permis­sion and without crediting or compensating its creators. It is a textbook example of plagia­rism-and is immoral by University ethical standards and illegal under federal law. Intellectual rights are cherished by the law, and copyright fraud is held in the contempt it deserves. 
Think of it. If a student had plagiarized something-anything-so blatantly, the Honor Committee and OSA could and would not hesi­tate for a second to punish them. The scope of either authority, however, does not extend to the bookstore. and thus the Hammes can continue its fraud without fear of any sanc­tion, unless one of the four senior University officers acts. 
Until they do, however, the Hammes will most likely continue to directly compete with the senior class, my class, and make profit not rightly theirs. And unless the bookstore is rebuked, such despicable acts may happen again to other campus groups in the future. 
Why would the Hammes do such a thing? It is an unfortunate fact that the Notre Dame bookstore is rarely original. especially when compared to student designs. Consider the t­shirts sold: the bookstore sells shirts that say "Are you an Irish fan?" on the front and "Yes I am" on the back. This pattern makes no sense unless a person has seen the Bud Light commercials it alludes to. Similarly, a student made a small fortune last year by selling the well received "Notre Dame: King of Schools" shirts. 
What shall it be, ethics or money, which rule the heart and influence the decisions of the University? 
What would Our Lady, whose values we cherish, want? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
News Amy Schmidt Kate Crisham Sports RianAkey  lab Tech Mark Alexion Production Kim Massman Jackie Moser  
Viewpoint Krista Nannery  Accent Kym Kilbride  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishc:d Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl. WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 2. 
Kidnaped boys urged to be brave 
UNION. S.C. 
A couple whose two young sons vanished a week ago in an alleged carjacking made another appeal for clues Tuesday as calls to a tip line began to slow. "It is a night­mare that seems to have no end," Susan and David Smith said in a statement. Despite a nationwide manhunt and international publicity about the case, investigators said they have come up with no firm leads. Three-year-old Michael and 14-month-old Alex Smith have not been seen since Oct. 25, when Mrs. Smith reported that a man 'umped in her car, made her drive a few miles, then ordered her out at gunpoint. She said the man drove off with the boys still strapped in their safety seats. "We can't feed them, we can't wipe away their tears, we can't hold them, we can't hug them," the couple said in the state­ment read by family spokeswoman Margaret Gregory, who said the Smiths were too distraught to speak directly. Though the investigation continues, involving some 100 local, state and federal officers, the sheriff acknowledged tips were less frequent. Investigators may offer a reward to attract more solid leads. Tens of thousands of dollars have been pledged, Wells said. 
'Occasional drink' may be dangerous 
GENEVA 
Moving to crush the idea that sipping an occasional drink may be good for you, the World Health Organization issued a tough warning Tuesday about the dangers of alcohoL "It is insufficient and unwise merely to promote the concept of moderate drinking for health reasons," the WHO statement said, referring to reports that a drink or two a day may actually deter certain types of disease. Rather than advancing health, the report said, alcohol actually causes a plethora of social and medical problems. including cancers, accidents, family problems, violence and crime. WHO estimates that 4 to 5 percent of deaths in industrialized countries such as the United States and Britain are alcohol-related. 

~ILL 

Finally, grassroot Africans themselves are rejecting leaders who preach war. In Mozambique, both Chissano's and Dhlakama's fighters are so weary of combat that Mozambique stands in danger of not being able to find enough recruits for a new unified army. 
Of course, it could all fall apart. Observers of Africa have learned it is safer to be pessimistic. Angola and Mozambique have enough strikes against them ­
AP/Wm.J.casteuo poverty, illiteracy, animosi­ties left from the war years -that no one would be that surprised if they flared into violence again. 
But the events this week provide a glimmer of hope that the bits are all in place to begin building a lasting peace. 
And if it happens, it matters, because recent history in southern Africa has shown that once stability takes hold in one country, it tends to spread. 
If the southern third of Africa becomes a bastion of peace, then the rest of Africa could someday follow. 
Minister shoots self in safety display 
ENFIELD, N.H. 

A minister who started buying guns because he feared the Brady Law would infringe on his rights accidentally shot himself to death while demonstrating gun safety to his family. Herbert Kershaw, who had run the indepen­dent New Life Christian Fellowship church from a building next to his home, died Sunday. Relatives said the 59-year­old Kershaw never had a reason to own a gun but became interested after the passage a year ago of the federal Brady Law, which requires a waiting period before hand­gun purchases. The police chief said Kershaw cited the Brady Law: "He was very concerned about his Second Amendment rights." Police said Kershaw attended a firearm course Sunday and later that day, at home, was demonstrating the pistol's safety features when it went off. Ed Brown, who held the firearm course, said Kershaw was very unfamiliar with guns. Brown said Kershaw told him he had taken National Rifle Association courses on firearm handling at the Grafton County Fish and Game Club. But club president Robert Mariotti could not imme­diately verify that. 
Prince Charles recalls embarrassments 
LONDON 

He forgot to toast President Reagan at a White House dinner; had a hard time not staring at Joan Collins' cleavage; and Princess Diana confused the pope into thinking she was pregnant. These are among the anecdotes told by Prince Charles, 45, in his authorized biography that went on sale Tuesday. There was no rush to buy. The most controversial parts about being pitched into a loveless marriage and having a mistress were serialized in advance. However, the 600-page book contains some insights into the private thoughts behind the public smile of the heir to the British throne, who is now visiting Los Angeles. 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
56

AUanta 73 46 Dallas 78 65 New Orleans 80 
45

Baltimore 68 40 Denver 42 30 New Vorl< 68 
42

Boston 60 40 Los Angeles 69 54 Philadelphia 67 
Chicago 62 45 Miami 83 72 Phoenix 74 64 Columbus 69 42 Minneapolis 48 33 
VIB Associated Press GraphicsNet C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
-------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, November 2,1994 The Observer •NATIONAL NEWS page 3 

Crash investigation continues 
By TONY JEWELL 
smashed airplane and pieces of Associated Press bodies. The largest piece of plane was a 6-to-8-foot section 
ROSELAWN of the tail. 
Crews built a gravel road "What we did see, we didn't across a boggy soybean field like," said firefighter John Tuesday to help investigators Knapp. reach bodies and clues in a "There's not one body that's commuter plane crash that intact," said another firefighter, killed all 68 people on board. Jerry Cramer. 
American Eagle Flight 4184 Gov. Evan Bayh stammered gave off a high-pitched whine of as he described what he saw engines at full throttle as it from a helicopter. "There is a streaked to the ground in a dri­small crater there and the ving rain Monday en route to wreckage is strewn in a fairlyAPChicago.'s O'Hare Airport. close radius around the impact
On Tuesday, the sun came out 
National Transportation site," he said. "The destruction
after a night of heavy rain, and 
Safety Board spokesman Ted is complete." 
crews brought in truckloads of 
Lopatkiewicz refused to specu­The gymnasium of the North
gravel to put down a road. In­
late on the cause of the crash. Newton High School, 15 miles
vestigators needed the 200­
One witness said he saw the from the crash site, was desig­
yard trail to overcome mud too 
almost-new twin-engine propjet nated a morgue and classes
deep even for four-wheel drive 
plunge toward the ground with were canceled for at least a
vehicles. 
a wing sheared off; week. Officials hadn't begun
The barren field where the 
Lopatkiewicz said he had no removing bodies by mid-after­
plane went down "smelled like 
comment on that report. noon.
a butcher shop," said Les 
Searchers found the plane's It could take a week to
Smith, who lives nearby. a 
cockpit voice recorder and month to recover all bodies and
Searchers who made it through
flight data recorder. Both were the muck on foot soon after the debris, state police Sgt. Jerry sent to Washington for analysis. crash described small chunks of Parker said. 

The Observer 
News Department
We are looking for energetic, motivated people to help cover campus news and events. We currently have openings in several positions, including: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor Md. "Ifthe execute Paul
Business Editor 
and mine is that' ~xEutu1ion will save the lives ,manyl:nore children.•· ·
If interested, please submit a short personal statement noting your experience 
. he is martyred, b(:lto News Editor Dave Tyler by Thursday, November 3. Call Dave at 1-5323 with ll(:l mpie po:werful dead ... ··· ••• .alive~·r said Henry Felisone. · 
any questions. 
r(:lctor of Queens Pro-Life New York. 
Oth(:lr abortion opponents nourict}d Hill and rejected·. clabn. that kilUng abn..T''""" 
f pl~osJP~ctivl~]tlrolrsr·· ..•. providers is justifiable homi ..· cide. ''.All slaying should cease," 
•·· > said the Rev. Jim. Pinto, spokesman· for Operation cue National. "If you are . 
. • . . · t:(,.~re are soine things cannot do arid one ofthose 
take Ulllllfill .lllo. 
Career and Volunteer 
the 


Options With 
not 


Nonprofit Organizations 
for profit 
The decision, the jobs, the challenges, the rewards.

sector 
LaFortune Info Desk. Hurry! .... Thursday, November 3rd 
h........W.. 

$12 /ND/SMC dvl<"' public groupo 4:00 -5:30 p.m. Student wI ID. """""""'""""'" The Center For Social Concerns 
oclucallaa 

...v~nmmontol
4 tix/ person. 
be.olth caft/hoopibolo rdlp>a
$15/GA 

IOdalMI"Vios 
Mary Ann Roemer, The Center For Soda! Concerno 
.... 

judy Goebel, c.,_and Pl&cement Servlceo 



------, 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, November 2,1994 be sold late next week. I he 
$10 donation for the shirt will go directly to the fund. 
Lyons Gortari highlights achievements 
continued from page 1 
would be terrific," she said. 
About $2S,OOO is needed in the scholarship fund as an en­dowment before its interest can be used, Beatty added. 
"Hopefully, by next year we'll be able to start the fund," Mer­ritt said. 
Grants from the fund will be awarded to a freshman who plans to study in Spain during the sophomore year. 
"Mara planned to study in Spain this year," Vo said. 
Last year's run, held on De­cember 11, attracted about 160 Lyons students and was spon­sored by the Freshmen Class Council. People from Lyons as well as other halls also gave donations to the fund. 
For this year's run, T-shirts commemorating the event will 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
The student complained of soreness to her head, but refused medical treatment. 
Detective Captain James Clark of the South Bend Police said the incident is currently being investigated. "We urge anyone who has any information or might have seen anything to give us a call," he said. 
Bolduc 
continued from page 1 
than 2,000 other business lead­ers to study the efficiency of government operations. Before that he served as an assistant secretary of agriculture under Presidents Nixon and Ford. 
He is also a trustee of the Na­tional Public Radio Foundation, the Hugh O'Brian Youth Foun­dation, and the Miami Dolphins. He also is director of the National Forum Foundation and the Citizens Against Government Waste Foundation. He is a strong supporter of the YWCA of the City of New York and last was honored for his public and humanitarian ser­vice by the Appeal of 
• 


Yesterday's l!;rticle ()n the J9hn Rita trial neglected to ac~ knowledge thi:VSouth Bend Tribun('l for its help in prepar, ing the ~tory, ["he. 0Q$erver.apologizes for the overstght. · • 
I 

Recycle The Observer  
MADELEVA Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff, CSC A Pictorial Biography by Maria Assunta W~rn~r. CSC Educator of Women Past President of Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana Founder of the First School of Theology for Women in the United States Nationally Known Poet and Author  I  
·­300+ pages, son cover-$1U5 (llf<hl4< $2.50/111' pMillfltullllunrd/illf.) Make doecb payable lo: !>bien of the Holy Crosa Saint Mary's • Box 72 Not"' Dame, Indiana 46556  

Students interested in partici­pating this year can sign up and get pledge sheets in the dining halls next week. The run will begin at 8:30 a.m. in the Lyons' parking lot and will follow the perimeter of the campus. 
In related news: 
Fox's alleged killer, John Rita, is standing trial this week on charges of causing a death while driving drunk and leaving the scene of an accident. 
Students interested in observ­ing the trial at St. Joseph County Superior Court in down­town South Bend can call Mer­ritt at 4-2894 for information on times of the court sessions. Typically, court sessions start at 8:30 a.m. and again at 1:30 
p.m. each day. 
The trial is expected to last through the week. 
Rita 
continued from page 1 
fragments of glass on the dash­board. Rita's guest who sat in front passenger seat testified that he had no idea about the cracked windshield until the car passed through a well light­ed area minutes after impact. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
Conscience Foundation. 
Bolduc presently serves on the Notre Dame Advisory Council of Graduate Studies and Research 
Bolduc and wife, Evelyn, cur­rently reside in Boca Raton, Fla. They have two daughters and two sons. One of their sons, James, is a 1990 Notre Dame graduate in fmance. 
The Sorin Society, named af­ter the University founder, was established in 1976 and has be­come the flagship of the Uni­versity's Annual Fund. The Annual Fund raised $13 million in 1994, part of Notre Dame's record $6S million in annual gifts. Sorin Society donations are unrestricted funds, and have been used in part to help almost double the amount of University scholarship aid. 
Sorin 
continued from page 1 
tions to events with senior ad­ministration officials and offi­cers. Members of the Founder's Circle also receive the "Notre Dame: Year in Review" video, assistance in parking for Notre Dame foot­ball games, and help in several areas when coming to the cam­pus. 
Under its new chairman, J.P. Bolduc, the Sorin Society will continue to contribute to fman­cial aid and .other major University projects, including some named in the Colloquy for the year 2000, said Moore. 
Fl\EE INFORMATION AND RESERVATIONS 
1•800•SUNCHASE 
NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 
By ISAAC A. LEVI ruling Institutional Revolu­Salinas lauded the Aug. 21 Associated Press tionary Party, takes over as election of Zedillo, the cleanest president Dec. 1 and has in Mexican history, noting that MEXICO CITY promised to continue the re­the presidential candidates held 
Summing up his achieve­forms. a first-ever debate and op­ments in a final state-of-the­NAFTA, which took effect­position parties were given a union address, President Carlos New Year's Day, creates the new say in government. Salinas de Gortari pointed world's biggest consumer bloc Political reforms include legis­
proudly today to a new free -360 million people with $6.4 lation Salinas pushed through trade alliance with the United trillion in annual trade. that expanded the number of States and Canada. NAFTA and new laws to open seats in both the Senate and the 
Looking forward, he appealed Mexico to foreign investors Chamber of Deputies to give for new peace talks with rebels reversed a closed-door policy opposition parties a larger in the southern state of of heavy state spending, con­share. Chiapas. Their New Year's Day trols and subsidies dating back National elections were rebellion is still simmering, and nearly 100 years. removed from government con­only this week rebels reiterated When Salinas took office, trol and placed in the hands of their rejection of negotiations. prices were plunging sharply an independent Federal 
"The desire of all Mexicans is for the oil that made up three­Elections Institute. to achieve a dignified peace," quarters of Mexico's export Nonetheless, reforms and Salinas told Congress. earnings. Reserves were down belt-tightening have taken an 
During the address, he was to almost nothing, and the economic and political toll. repeatedly heckled by op­country had a foreign debt of About half the nation's 86 mil­position lawmakers. They more than $100 billion -the lion people live near or below booed Salinas when he declared second largest in the Third the poverty level, and the pur­that democracy had been World after Brazil. Foreign chasing power of salaries has strengthened in Mexico. bankers were refusing to lend dropped by half. 
Salinas, who took office in more money. The ruling party, the PRI, has 1988 with Mexico's economy in Inflation ran at more than SO seen its grip on the nation slip. 
shambles, pronounced a suc­percent annually, and economic The party has been in power cess the six years of dramatic growth was down to zero. But for 6S years, often winning free-market reforms that culmi­inflation has since been fraudulent national elections nated in the North American reduced to around 6 percent with about 70 percent of the Free Trade Agreement. and the peso currency, which vote. In the last two presidential 
Ernesto Zedillo, a Yale-edu­had been devalued almost elections, the party got only cated economist also from the monthly, is now steady. slightly more than SO percent. 

C
an't afford to save for retirement? Even ifyou're not counting the years to The truth is, you can't afford not to. retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF Not when you realize that your retirement to help you build the future you deserve­can last 20 to 30years or more. You'll want with flexible retirement and tax-deferred to live at least as comfortably then as you annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvest­do now. And that takes planning. ment choices, and a record ofpersonal 
By starting to save now, you can take service that spans 75 years. advantage oftax-deferral and give your Over a million people in education and money time to compound and grow. research put TIAA-CREF at the top of Consider this: set aside just $wo each their list for retirement planning. Why not month beginning at age 30 and you can join them? accumulate over $154,031* by the time Call today and learn how simple it is you reach age 65. But wait ten years and to build a secure tomorrow when you you'll have to budget $211 each month have time and TIAA-CREF working on to reach the same goal. your side. 
Stanphl•ni"'lyourfoture. C.U our EnroUmen.t Hotline 1 800 842-2888. 

75 years ofensuring the future for those who shape it:M 


0AJJuming an inttrtJt ra/t of 6.50% mJittJ to TIAA Rttirtmtn/ Annuiliu. Tbi.r raft i.r tJJtJJokty to Jbow tbt powtranhfftrl of rompounJing. Lowtr or bigbtr ratt.r wou/J produ<t vtry Jiffm:nt ruuftJ. CREF artifu:atu an Ji.rtributtJ by TIAA-CREF lnJiviJUJl! anJ ln.rtitutional Saviru. 
--~-----------~ 

Wednesday, November 2,1994 
Warplanes stage show-of-force 
U.S. exhibits resolve to help protect Kuwait 
By DIANA ELIAS 
Associated Press 
KUWAIT 

U.S. warplanes dropped 55,000 pounds of bombs on burned-out Iraqi tanks and other desert targets Tuesday in exercises designed to show al­lied resolve to protect Kuwait. 
Two B-52s and a pair of B-1 bombers led more than 100 warplanes in the biggest allied air force exercise in several years. American A-10 Thun­derbolt tank-killing jets and British and French combat planes also took part. 
Kuwait's defense minister, Sheik Ahmed al-Humoud al­Sabah, applauded as the B-52s dropped 500-pound bombs on simulated targets in Kuwait's northern desert, including burned-out Iraqi tanks left from the 1991 GulfWar. 
Allied warplanes also buzzed northern Kuwait and the "no­fly zone" over southern Iraq, below the 32nd parallel. No in­cidents were reported despite Iraqi protests that the exercises were provocative and illegal. 
The air exclusion zone in southern Iraq was imposed in August 1992 to help protect Shiite Muslim rebels from the forces of Iraqi President Sad­dam Hussein. 
Coalition aircraft have been operating from bases in Saudi Arabia and Turkey to monitor the no-fly zone and a similar 
Reesa is finally 20! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 

exclusion zone in northern Iraq. 
"If our neighbor to the north ... is considering an aggression against Kuwait, this is a mes­sage for him," Sheik Ahmed said as he watched the exer­cises from a tent erected on the Udairi Range, 25 miles east of the Iraqi border. 
In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Cmdr. Joe Gradisher said the four Ameri­can bombers dropped a total 55,000 pounds of bombs. The B -1 bombers flew 2 5 hours from Ellsworth Air Force Base, S.D., and the B-52s flew 29 hours from Minot Air Force Base, N.D. to participate. 
The warplanes scored hits on the blackened hulks of Iraqi tanks and vehicles strewn across the desert, kicking up billowing clouds of smoke and dust. 
Scores of military exercises have been held at the Udairi Range since the emirate signed 10-year defense pacts with the United States, Britain, France and Russia after the Gulf War. 
On Monday, Iraq denounced the aerial exercises, which fol­lowed the allies' largest mili­tary deployment in the region since the Gulf War to counter an Iraqi military buildup north of the border last month. 
Iran's deputy speaker of par­liament, Hassan Rohani, said Tuesday the allied maneuvers were an "aggression that con­travenes all international laws and principles" because they included Iraqi airspace, state­run Tehran Radio said in a broadcast monitored in Cyprus. 
RELATIONSHIPS: 
How to deal with the ones you have, How to get the ones you want! 
ELLEN GOOTBLATT 
"Relationships" Expert Advice Columnist, Author and Host of #1 rated ABC evening 
talk show 
Come hear her speak about 
Ooops, did I say Seinfeld? I meant Seinfest­SEINFEST '94 is coming! Oh well, same difference. Both sound alike, are spelled similarly and both would make 
MEETING, DATING I 
you laugh uncontrollably. However, a ticket to see 
Seinfeld would probably cost $35, while a ticket to see 
Seinfest '94 costs only a BUCK!! And at Seinfest '94, you 
RELATING & MATING 
get to see your fellow students in action. When? ("' ~ Thursday, November 3rd. Time? 8:00PM.
,A: 
STUDENT 

Wednesday, November 2 
ACT~ITIES 
B 0 A R D 

SMC Carroll Auditorium, 7:30 PM $1 r 
~ 
7~~ 

~--------------~-~-------------·---­
---· --------·---------,
~--------. 
page 6 The Observer •WASHINGTON NEWS Wednesday, November 2, 1994 
Stakes, tensions rise as election day nears 
Clinton warns voters of GOP 
'cynicism' 
By DAVID ESPO 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Hoping to energize traditional Democratic voters in next week's elections, President Clinton today accused Republi­cans of trying to stoke the "cynicism of the public" for po­litical gain and said, "don't let them sucker you." 
"They want to take us back to trickle-down economics, back to massive tax cuts for the wealthy," Clinton said of Re­publicans. 
Clinton made his comments on a daylong swing through Michigan and Ohio, two states where Democrats are strug­gling to hold onto the seats of retiring senators. Clinton scheduled stops in six other states in the next week, part of a campaign-ending bid to mini­mize anticipated Democratic midterm election losses. 
His first stop of the day was in Michigan, where Senate candidate Bob Carr tried to trump reports he had kept his distance from Clinton in an earlier presidential visit. "Mr. President, we welcome you," he said, smiling and applauding loudly, as the president beamed nearby on the stage. 
Clinton, who was scheduled to attend a fund-raiser expect­ed to collect $250.000 for Carr's campaign, launched a strong attack on the Republicans at an event where the crowd-many union mem­bers -was swelled by school children bused to the hall. 
While conceding the country still faces problems, he recited a litany of economic achieve­ments, passage of the crime bill and other measures and said "the country is in better shape than it was 21 months ago." 
Republicans, he said, are try­ing to pretend otherwise. He described their campaign strat­egy this way: 
"We will deny that it hap­pened. We will take the cyni­cism of the public and build on it. We will take the skepticism of the public and feed it ... We will divide the people. We will throw a smoke screen over the election." 
Spy case handling criticized 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press 
CIA Director R. James Woolsey's reprimands of 11 senior managers for their han­dling of the Aldrich H. Ames spy case were "seriously inade­quate" for a "disaster of unprecedented proportions," a Senate committee said today. 
In a report on the CIA's hunt for the Soviet mole and Woolsey's response to the scan­dal, the Senate Intelligence Committee also asserted that congressional oversight com­mittees were not notified "in any meaningful way" of the devastating loss of foreign agents in 1985-86 that Ames now admits he caused. 
Ames, who was arrested last February and sentenced last April to life in prison, has ad­mitted he sold U.S. national se­curity secrets to Moscow for more than eight years, starting in 1985. He was a 31-year vet­eran of the spy agency. 
Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D­environment inside the CIA's Ariz., chairman of the commit­Operations Directorate that tee, said the panel's report enabled Ames to go undetected "paints a picture which will for so long. come as a shock to most Amer­The report said those in icans." charge of the CIA during the 
In a rejoinder, the CIA public 1986-91 period, before an in­affairs office today issued a tense and focused mole hunt lengthy chronology of steps got under way -"must ulti­Woolsey has taken in response mately bear the responsibility" to the Ames case. It said most for the lack of an adequate re­of the Senate panel's recom­sponse to the 1985 agent loss­mendations· for change·are re·­'es. It named former CIA di­flected in these steps, which rectors William Casey, William include measures to strengthen Webster and Robert Gates, as the CIA's counterintelligence well as former acting director capabilities. Richard Kerr. 
'94 election full ofstrange stories 
By MITCHELL LANDSBERG 
Associated Press 
Things are getting strange out on the campaign trail. 
A Hawaiian congressional candidate has vanished. A bank robber is running for the Legislature in Montana. A dead man is likely to be re-elected in West Virginia. 
And around the country, more than one candidate is making this promise: "Elect me. I'll resign." 
Putting aside the serious issues in next Tuesday's elec­tion -whether more Bush off­spring will be elected than Kennedys; whether Californians will make their state nanny-free -1994 has had more than its share of political oddities. 
Take Alaska. (Please.) While voters there have been en­thralled by the quadrennial de­bate over whether to move the state capital from Juneau to someplace colder, a real issue has taken root in the race for governor. 
Republican Jim Campbell, who is partly bald (this is actu­ally relevant). is attacking Democrat Tony Knowles for, among other things, having "good hair" like President Clin­ton. 
Does this mean that Knowles gets his hair cut on airport run­ways by someone named Christophe? That hasn't emerged as an issue so far; this being politics, it's probably too early to rule it out. 
From Alaska to Alabama, negative campaigning is the fa­vored tactic this year. But some candidates are willing to bal­ance the attacks with some ref­erences to their own qualifica­tions. 
For instance, Joseph Brennan, a Democratic candi­date for governor in Maine, says he has "more experience with firearms than any other gubernatorial candidate." 
Specifically, Brennan, an ·Army veteran, has attested to his competence with machine guns and bazookas. 
This has prompted some 
chuckling in Maine  - cartoons  
of Brennan in  full  combat  
regalia and so forth.  

IZO OU­Don't lose your shorts on your 
20th Birthday! 
Love­I· Nicole, Mindi, Amy, and Quig 
The Senate report in many ways highlights the same flaws and errors inside the CIA that were noted in a recently declas­
F.-ee Movies! sified report by the CIA inspec­tor general. 
Student Activities presents an
In a conclusion that is much 
She thinks she wants 
to be a scientist; 
9:15 PM 

a career information night 
The St. Joe County Branch of the ACS has organized an opportunity for students to meet a panel of women scientists in an informal setting. 
10:45 PM date: Thurs., Nov. 3 time: 7p.m.-1 0 p.m. 
12:15 AM

place: the Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
program: 7 p.m. Lecture "Women in chemistry 
stronger than expressed by the inspector general, the 17 -mem­ber Senate panel said there was "gross negligence -both indi­vidually and institutionally" in creating and perpetuating an 
8:00 PM 
evening of: 

Dinosaurs 
The Land Before Time 
and genies, 
Aladdin 
dwarfs and meanies, 
Snow White 
virtue, vice 
An American Tale 
and friendly mice. 
past, present, future" 
The LaFortune Ballroom 
7:30p.m. FRE.E. PIZZA 
Friday, November 4th
chat with your favorite scientist 
who should attend: students considering a career in 
rK~~ TOfCOKN! 
science. 

FREE SOFT DHiNil5i
for additional info call: 63 1-8632 sponsored by American Chemical Society 


Wednesday, November 2, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Bosnian Serbs face heavy attacks on 3 fronts 
By DAVID CRARY heavy government attacks on Associated Press three fronts. In what could be a pivotal SARAJEVO change, Bosnian Croat militia-
Faced with their toughest men who had stayed out of the challenge of the 31-month war, recent fighting are mobilizing to Bosnian Serbs struggled Tues-support the suddenly successful day to hold ground against Muslim-led government forces, 
Festival '9 

The Northeast Neighborhood Rejuvination Project 


Saturday, November 5th Fall Festival is a one-day service project to show Notre Dame's support for the South Bend Community. 
Students and residents will work together to beautify the Northeast Neighborhood by planting flowers and cleaning the interiors and exteriors of local homes. 
The project will be followed by a block party for all volunteers. 
If you are interested in being a part of Fall Festival '94, sign up in the dining halls, the CSC, or the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Any Questions, please call Karen DuBay at 271-8992. 
a U.N. official said. 
The Croat militia's entry into the combat could accelerate the dramatic shift of momentum of the past week, which came as the long-outgunned government army achieved its biggest terri­torial gains since the war began in April 1992. 
A combined Muslim-Croat offensive would be their first major cooperative operation since agreeing in March to form joint armed forces. It would give them an overwhelming manpower advantage over the Serbs. 
The main arenas of combat Tuesday were in the mountains just south of Sarajevo, around the Serb-held west-central town of Kupres and in north­west Bosnia, where government troops have captured at least 100 square miles in seven days. 
Paul Risley, a U.N. spokesman in Zagreb, said the Bosnian Croat militia was deploying troops and heavy weapons south of Kupres, apparently preparing to fight Serb forces already under government attack from the north. 
After fighting each other for territory in central and south­ern Bosnia during most of last year, Bosnian Muslims and Croats agreed in March, at U.S. urging, to form a federation with joint armed forces. 
APNim. J. Castello 
Controversial general removed from post 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

President Boris Yeltsin on Tuesday dismissed the first deputy defense minister, a gen­eral who has been accused of corruption and linked to the bomb killing of an investigative reporter. 
Col. Gen. Matvei Burlakov, the former chief of Russian armed forces in Germany, be­came Defense Minister Pavel Grachev's first deputy on Aug. 23, when Russia completed the withdrawal of its troops from Germany. 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! 

Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $499S, now just $3500 • Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on ND football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for alllrish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634~1740 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 
• 
TWO BATHROOMS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE 

• 
WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

•GAS 
HEAT CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 


• 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 
• ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 232-8256 
In a special decree, Yeltsin said Burlakov was dismissed "to protect the honor of the Russian Federation's armed forces, their senior comman­ders, the authority of the state power and in connection with the current probes." 
Burlakov, 59, who headed the Germany-based Western Group of Forces since 1990, was in charge of redeployment and housing for the returning sol­diers. 
But his newly rising career as Grachev's deputy was spoiled on Oct. 17 when a suitcase bomb killed Dmitry Kholodov, a 27-year-old journalist who cov­ered the military for the daily Moskovsky Komsomolets. A female reporter also was in­jured in the blast at the news­paper's offices. 
Kholodov had written repeat­edly on alleged corruption among Burlakov's officers and troops, and he planned to give testimony to the parliament on illegal Russian arms sales in Germany, newspaper officials say. 
VIEWPOINT 

----·--­

page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor.................. George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edip torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.eduGeneral Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
Vatican stance on divorce, remarriage raises concerns for Notre Dame family 
Dear Editor: He will protest that their lifestyle con­
The Vatican must save the month of travenes the Catholic character of the October to issue its most severe pro­institution. nouncements. In 1987 it was the circu­3) The Office of Student Affairs will lar letter to Roman Catholic Bishops on revise Du Lac to create disciplinary pro­Homosexuality. In 1994 it is the circu­cedures for students who divorce and lar letter to Roman Catholic Bishops on remarry. Penalties will range up to and Divorce and Remarriage. Put the two include suspension or dismissal. documents side-by-side and you might Remarried students will not be allowed draw some interesting conclusions. to cohabit in on-campus housing. 
Any good Christian easily nods his or 4) The Alumni Association will return her head in agreement. Christians are donations from remarried alumni and called to a life of chastity outside of exclude them from official reunion marriage and continence in marriage. activities. In the interest of pastoral Homosexuals may not marry, therefore sensitivity, workshops will be held at they may not morally engage in sexual reunions for parents of divorced and relationships. Divorced Catholics and remarried children. Workshop facilita­Catholics marrying a previously married tors will be instructed not to acknowl­spouse may not licitly remarry unless edge that many alumni are themselves they obtain an annulment for the bro­divorced and remarried. ken marriage. If they cannot afford an 5) Second marriages will not be annulment or marry without one, the announced in Notre Dame Magazine couple should opt for the "brother-sis­and remarried spouses of alumni will ter" solution. They may practice chasti­not be acknowledged in obituaries. ty in marriage and abstain from all sex­6) Divorced and remarried members ual contact. Christians who engage in of the Notre Dame Communities will be sexual relationships outside of marriage referred to the Counseling Center and must be excluded from the reception of Campus Ministry. the Eucharist. Remarried Catholics offi­7) Self-admitted remarried persons cially remain "outside of marriage." will not be allowed to speak on campus 
So goes the "official Church teaching." and campus organizations which fund I hope that our toe-the-line on the their appearance will be censured or Catholic character watchdogs at Notre denied recognition. Dame are paying particularly close 8) Support groups run by and for attention to this latest October letter divorced members of the Notre Dame from the Vatican. The way in which Communities will be banned because Church teachings are enforced in local administrators suppose that they meet communities often oppresses members solely for the purpose of finding new of those communities far beyond the spouses against Church teaching. simple severity of the teachings them­There is one big difference in this sce­selves. Let me list just a few ways in nario which I nearly forgot to mention. which the latest Vatican letter might At Notre Dame, there are no remar­equitably be enforced at Notre Dame. ried priests. 
I) At Sacred Heart Church priests will be instructed to refuse communion to openly remarried. JEFFREY VANDERWILT 
2) Regardless of academic merit, the Graduate Student in Theology Provost will deny tenure and promotion Off-campus to openly remarried faculty (even those who take the "brother-sister' option). 
Wednesday, November 2, 1994 
• KITCHEN AYE 
It wasn't supposed to be easy 
"Lord, give me the courage to change "The serenity to accept that which I those things which I can, the serenity to cannot." That's what it all comes down accept those things which I cannot, and to. Ever the tragic optimists, we tried the wisdom to know the difference." desperately to make the show, some­
Listen Closely. Wednesday night, how, anyway possible. But it just 19th of October, Billy Joel concert, first wasn't meant to be, and there was noth­show ever in Chicago's new United ing I could do about it. Centre. We got tickets almost two It's moments like these when we ask: months in advance, practically the last "Why me? What did I do to deserve seats available. Was it academic sui­this?" The answer to these questions is cide to cut out on a Wednesday night, something along the lines of "just 'til 3 in the morning, right in the middle because" or "nothing, really." Life of midterms? Yeah, probably, but who doesn't always work out OK. Everything cares. Only the good die young. isn't always great and everyone isn't 

always happy. And so it goes. Damn. 
But ya know, 'if the worst thing that 
ever happens to me is missing a concert 
because my car breaks down, then I
Frank 

think I should consider my self real lucky. Cause there are people out there with real problems, and real concerns.
Cristinzio 
People who deal with real problems 
everyday of their lives. Who am I to be 
indignant? Things could definitely be a 
After two weeks of rubbing it in peo­lot worse. ples noses, we pull out of D2 around When these situations pop up in your 
4:30. Pedal to the metal all the way to life, when your car breaks down, when Chicago. Life could hardly have been you flunk an exam, or when you break sweeter. up with your girl/boyfriend and it seems 
It wasn't so much who we were going like you've got it bad, just stop a minute to see, that didn't really matter, but that and ask yourself just how bad off you we were cutting out and leaving all the really are. I'll bet you'll realize that stress and anxiety behind to go dance, you're not very bad ofT at all, that actu­sing, and be merry with thousands of ally, you're probably doing pretty good. people who had also suffered a little and Sometimes, when life is so good for so anticipated a lot to be there. long, we tend to lose perspective; some­
All right, pay attention. Right outside times things tend to seem a lot more Michigan City, suddenly, all the power important than they really are. drops out. My grocery-getter, after " ... And the wisdom to know the differ­years of faithful and thankless service, ence." There are times when you can dies out on me right at the stop after the make a difference, and there are times middle of nowhere, less than three when you must accept the situation that hours before the concert starts. Damn. you are in and learn to live and deal. Pull over. Won't start. Damn. Dead in When something important really does the water. go wrong, when you have to deal with 
To make an already too long story a death and real loss. Just remember little shorter, we missed the concert. that life always goes on. They never Six hours, one bad ignition module, and said it would all work out, or all be easy. one-hundred and eighty some dollars Put it in perspective. Life will always go and change later I was back in my on, and with the proper attitude, will room, waiting for my roommates (who always get better. did make the concert), to come back and Frank Cristinzio, a junior. lives in tell me all about the encores. Stanford Hall. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
P£0PL£ HAV& BEZN AC­
QJ~JN6 M& OfI<NOIAJ­
lNG t<JIATMYOP.IN PW­
Pte We<& UP TO FOR. YeARS! /Tt{)(}N'T9/0<J aHO IJO 7H&YU'3T A7 
'3Uf3P/3Cll3[} 7RAFFJCI<a<Sr 
• Qm.m: Of THE DAY 

''stop the world­( want to get off." 
-Anthony Newly and Leslie Bricusse 
ACCENT 
Wednesday, November 2, 1994 page 9 
• fASHION fOlUES 
Classic~inspired styles return 
Editor's Note: This is the first tured. That is really what the conscious styles, are swooped ago have now of a series offashion columns season is all about. low onto the neckline and ad­been replaced by Veronica Torres that will Unlike last year's "grunge" justed with a single button. with a colorful appear in The Observer once a inspired looks, this season's Worn over a matching A-line palette for the month. Torres is a Spanish and clothes are no longer being skirt or tailored pants, they face. English Writing major at Saint used as a means to hide the prove perfect for day or evening The colors Mary's College. She has ex­body. Rather, the idea is to wear. The bell-shaped skirt, you choose to tensive jour-play-up and show what is al­along with a cropped, fitted wear for foun­nalism expe­ready there. jacket, also helps create a dation and for rience with With the aid of the corset, romantic silhouette. blush should Time Inc. which was sewn into Chanel's In some cases, the materials still comple­Magazines, entire fall collection, the waist that are being used to manufac­ment your own NBC and var­is nipped-in, and defined. On ture some of the styles, leather, skin tone, but in ious campus the same note, the bust is rubber. vinyl. help boost the the eye depart­publications. accented due to the great popu­curve-conscious clothing. ment, everyone Torres is larity of the Wonderbra. But if "classic" is more your should try to pursuing a Torres style, hemlines that fall just to have some fun. career in Accent Columnist Since the arrival of these the knee are back, reminiscent In order to fashion edit-------­"contraptions" to the market of Jackie's White House and the give your eyes a Brandon CancluraiThe Observer 
sense of drama Structured body-concious styles replace "grunge" for 
ing. In months to come, look for place, some people believe that days of Sophia Loren. For 
(and the atten-fall fashion, a return to the classics is back. 
features on men's fashion, win­they have only taken women these straight skirts, get rid of ter apparel and fashion do's back a few hundred years, and those loose, sloppy tees; struc­tion they deserve), use a dark material, with outrageous and don'ts. at the same time, promoted tured, ultra-feminine shirts are brown or black eye pencil to buckles cinched over a fitted 
dissatisfaction with their own better. surround the lids, both on top sweater, an A-line dress, a 
Has there ever been a time bodies. But remember, the An alternative to the skirt this and underneath. Start at the jacket or trousers is also an when you have wished you inspiration for what comes out season is the flexible and com­corner of the eye, using a thin idea. could put on your favorite high of the couture collections every fortable jumper which can be stroke and gradually make the Like in past seasons, sus­heels, lots of colorful make-up, year is partly for theatrics and worn during the day, with a fit­lines heavier as you trace the penders have re-surfaced. To and body-conscious clothing, to grab the attention of the ted sweater and ankle-boots, or lid as far as you dare. make the most out of your sus­without looking too risque or magazine editors sitting in the at night, by adding a simple For lipstick and eye shadow, penders, try to stick with appearing too out of the ordi­front rows. Needless to say, jacket, hose and heels. anything goes. The reasoning shades and designs that can be nary? Well, now is your many of the ideas first shown at Keep in mind that after dark this season is color highlights worn with a variety of articles: chance. the shows are eventually car­black is still the favorite but every feature, not just one. jeans, trousers and short skirts. 
During this fall season, your ried out onto the streets but during the day, solid, bright For nighttime add rhinestones. transition away from the over­should only be worn if they are colors are fun and flattering. If you're into accessorizing, But still, the ruie with jewelry is sized flannels, and clunky shoes what you consider to be your This time around color isn't black or colored fishnet stock­keep it simple. will be much easier as design­own sense of style. just limited to clothing. Make­ings add fun or sophistication, So now that you know, in­ers invite their audience to re­up has also gone brighter this depending on how you see it,to dulge while you can. But do it learn the art of dressing like a For fall, long, slim tuxedo year. The neutral, earth-tones a little black dress or a colorfui quickly. You know how fickle woman. Sexy, powerful, struc-jackets, that play to these body-that were key just a few months mini-skirt. A thin belt, of any fashion can be. 



Students take the plunge 
By PETE RUBINA$ 
with our hosts, the Carmelite priests Accent Columnist and brothers who run St. Gelasius parish and grade school, and chat about 
Who exactly is the "rejected waste of what we had felt during the day. Each society?" Many people would say that of us brought something different to the people of the Chicago neighborhood these little discussions, and they proved of Woodlawn qualify for this de­to be very rewarding. scription. One need not look far in When I think back on my Urban Woodlawn to see many indications that Plunge experience, a couple of things life here is not easy by any stretch of the stick out in my mind. First, I remember imagination. something Father Dan O'Neill said to us 
A man who makes his home in a cav­during one of our discussions. He said, ernous portion of an abandoned build­"I think that we would turn the lights ing, his belongings stashed in three out in Church and celebrate mass by shopping carts on the sidewalk; the candlelight before we closed the school. empty shells of houses that are a testa­It is the single most important thing we ment to the 20.2% current vacancy rate do for the neighborhood." 
-
and the 24.4% decline in population I also look back with fondness on our since 1980; the countless trash-filled lunch with Ruby McCoy, a local parish­empty lots and abandoned vehicles. ioner. Ruby is a seventy year-old 
Signs like these are unavoidable when woman who has seen more than 400 walking through Woodlawn. Simply foster children go through her doors at writing the people of Woodlawn off as courtsey of Urban Plunge one time or another, providing safety "waste," however, is not only unfair, it Urban Plunge offers a growing opportunity for students to experience societial realities. for these children, addicts and victims is wrong. Yes, these people are poor. cities. pletely unique, this outline should give of child abuse, in a co-op that she The median family income in Woodlawn In other words, the Urban Plunge is you a general idea about the contents of helped to form. 
in 1980 was a measly $10,545, with 48 hours spent in one of over 50 inner­a typical plunge: John Nickel. a former "plunger" in 
39.0% of the population below the al­city environments to learn more about Tuesday: Philadelphia, says, "Urban Plunge ready low poverty line. Yes, there are the plight of the people living there and •Tour of Woodlawn neighborhood in should be a University requirement for gangs, crime, and many other urban the services in place to help these peo­van graduation. You honestly learn that plights that affect life in Woodlawn. ple. •Trip on 'el' to the Harold Washington much from the experience!" 
The fact is there are no jobs for the Alex Andreichuck, a junior who made Library This year's Urban Plunge will occur people of Woodlawn to obtain to col­his Urban Plunge in Chicago, says, "My •Visit Mt. Carmel High School during a 48-hour period the week of lectively pull their community out of the plunge taught me more than I could • Help at soup kitchen -First January 3-10, 1995. Actual dates vicious circle in which it is hopelessly have ever learned from a textbook." Presbyterian Church depend on the individual sites. 
caught. Despite these seemingly Homelessness and poverty are institu­•Shopping trip to neighborhood grocery Registration forms for the 1995 Urban 
insurmountable odds, however, the peo­tions that affect us all. Most of us have store/ Preparation of dinner Plunge may be picked up at the Center ple of Woodlawn display an amazing experienced the discomfort felt when a •Evening discussion for Social Concerns, either Campus capacity for faith, hope, and love in homeless man or woman passes us on Wednesday: Ministry office, or from your Urban their lives, ultimately disproving the the street or asks us for help. Urban •Visit St. Gelasius Grade School Plunge dorm representative. Saint notion that they are the "rejected waste Plunge offers us a small glimpse into the •Visit St. Martin de Porres Women's Mary's students may pick up their regis­of society". world of the underprivileged, a glimpse Shelter trations at the SMC Multicultural Affairs 
"What is Urban Plunge?" one might that forces us to pay attention for a •Buy lunch at Valois "See Your Food" office, Campus Ministry, or the Justice ask. Well, simply put, the Urban Plunge change. Cafeteria Education office. is a one-credit theology course open to "We went to an inner-city day care •Lunch/visit with local parishioner The registration deadline for the 1995 
all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy center and played with the kids," says •Group Discussion Urban Plunge is November 11th. More Cross students that offers each student Indianapolis plunge veteran Maria • Evaluation information about the plunge may be an opportunity to witness and develop a Stransky. "They loved us just because The six of us experienced a lot in 48 obtained by attending an informational 
disciplined sensibility to the conditions we bothered to pay attention to them." hours. Perhaps the most enlightening meeting at the Center for Social of poverty found in our cities. In addi­Following is an outline of my 1994 aspect of our plunge was our evening Concerns on Thursday, November 3rd tion, the student will be able to increase Urban Plunge made in the Woodlawn discussions. After we had gone out and from 6:30 p.m. until 7 p.m. If any addi­his/her awareness of persons who are neighborhood of the South Side of seen what there was to see, my new tional questions remain, contact Pete working to improve conditions in their Chicago. Although each plunge is com-friends and I would sit down together Rubinas, 634-3664. 
J 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 2, 1994 
• SOCCER 


Gamecocks new men's No. I Top Division II 
By PETE IACOBELLI rankings and honors are OK. field. It would be South 
Associated Press But Berson said they want to Carolina's ninth trip to the bring South Carolina its first NCAAs in the past decade. NCAA championship. Senior defender Greg King
COLUMBIA, S.C. 
"We got the championship fi­said the Gamecocks learnedWho's No. 1? For the first 
nal last year and we were not about overconfidence at thetime in soccer and just the sec­ranked very highly in the start of last year's NCAA tour­
ond time ever, it's South 
polls," Berson said. "We got nament. Creighton, undefeatedCarolina. 
there by earning our way every and No. 1 coming in, lost in the The Gamecocks (15-2) have time we stepped on the field. first round. South Carolinaparlayed a 15-game win streak We certainly can't take a differ­ranked 13th and went to the ti­into the top spot in the nation. 
ent attitude simply because tle game. 
So how come coach Mark 
we're No. 1. That defies logic." This team is too mature to getBerson and the rest of his play­South Carolina, ranked No. 2 sky high about midseason hon­ers speak of the accomplish­
last week, moved into the top ors, said King, one of six se­ment like an affliction instead spot after former No. 1 Indiana niors who start for theof a blessing? 
lost to Cal-State Fullerton on Gamecocks.
"We don't want it to be a dis­Friday and the Gamecocks beat "We still have fun in practice,
traction," said forward Chris 
Louisville 4-1 Sunday. we still play· games before weFaklaris, the Gamecocks' top There are two regular season work. No one's cocky about usscorer with 15 goals. 
games left, Wednesday against getting to the top," he said. 
"Number one is nice, don't get Georgia State and Sunday The players struggled at firstme wrong about that. But play­
against No. 16 North Carolina to find their form after season­ing well in the (NCAA) tourna­Charlotte -a contest that will opening 1-0 losses to Indianament and winning tournament determine the Metro and St. Louis, King said. There
games is really our ultimate 
Conference champion. was shouting and bickeringgoal." 
A Metro title means automatic during games, he said, because
From the moment South 
entrance into the NCAA tour­the team knew it could match
Carolina lost the NCAA title 
nament, which begins later this up with nationally rankedgame to Virginia in December, 
month. Even with a loss, the teams.
Berson said the Gamecocks Gamecocks should receive an Berson saw something differ­have focused only on returning. 
at-large bid into the 32-team ent.
Lengthy streaks are nice. High 
Prairie View skid reaches 43 
By MICHAEL A. LUTZ to play football, even if it meant wide receiver Alaric Henderson Associated Press not getting a scholarship. said. "They can't even stay and Since beating Mississippi support us the whole ball 
Valley State 21-12 on Oct. 28, game."
PRAIRIE VIEW, Texas 1989, the Panthers have gone On opening day this year, theAt Prairie View, 43 consecu­
on a skid that's just one short of Panthers trailed Texastive losses hasn't casued the the Division I record Columbia Southern 20-13 in the lastfootball team to lose its pride. 
set from 1983-1988. They've minute but were stopped on the"They may be losers on the been outscored 1,819-247. 1 on the game's final play. 
football field," Prairie View They've lost by 92-0 (Alabama "It gets hard to pinpoint yourcoach Ron Beard said, "but 
State, 1991), 66-0 (Grambling friends," said Provo, one ofthey're winners in every other this year), 63-0 (Alcorn State, three seniors who have playedway." 
1992) and 61-0 (Southwest four seasons without a victory.
Linebacker Alfonse Provo 
Missouri State, 1991). Prairie View is a predomi­
wants a degree to make his 
"What makes me so mad is nantly black college of 6,000mother proud. Cory Fregia and 
people leaving at the half," students.
Kevin Garner wanted a chance 
teams to face off 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. 
People are starting to face up to the very real possibility that the top major college teams will never meet on the playing field. 
No such problem in Division II, where it's No. 1 vs. No. 2 on Saturday -a dream matchup between the defending national champion and one of the most dynamic offenses the small-col­lege ranks has ever seen. 
"All year long, this game has been in the back of our minds," said Valdosta State coach Hal Mumme, whose second-ranked team faces No. 1 North Alabama, the 1993 champ. "We've been telling the kids, 'Don't look past the next play, don't look past the next game,' all those coaching cliches. 
"So (Monday), when I went out to meet with the offense, I said, 'Well guys, let's make sure we don't look forward to (next week's game against) Henderson State. We don't want to overlook these guys.' That kind of broke them up." 
It would be hard to overlook North Alabama (7-1). which has been ranked No. 1 in Division II for more than a year while winning 21 straight games against opponents its size. 
The Lions, coached by former Auburn assistant Bobby Wallace, would have been per­fect this season if they didn't have the audacity to take on the defending 1-AA champ, los­ing 17-14 at Youngstown State. 

Valdosta State (9-0) hasn't lost since a 31-21 defeat to North Alabama last season knocked them out of the play­offs. This season, the Blazers have scored more than 60 points twice and more than 50 on two other occasions, led by Chris Hatcher, the odds-on favorite to win the Harlon Hill Trophy as the top player in Division II. 
"He's like Joe Montana," Mumme said of his quarter­back. "What makes Montana so good? He's never had the strongest arm, has never been a big imposing guy. But when he stepped in the huddle, ev­erybody else got better. I don't know how to explain it. It's cer­tainly not coached." 
North Alabama officials are expecting a sellout crowd of more than 14,000 at Braly Stadium in Florence, where the Lions won the Division II cham­pionship last year. 
"There's nothing like the home-field advantage," said defensive back Gerald Smith. "We just can't let ourselves lose at home." 
The regional cable network SportsSouth is planning to tele­vise the game live -a rare occurrence for this usually overlooked division. 
"The players love it," Mumme said. "They thrive on the atten­tion. They don't get it much at this level, so they appreciate it more when they do get it." 
Valdosta State's offense rep­resents the unstoppable force. The Blazers are averaging bet­ter than 508 yards and 46 points per game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame_ office, 314 LaFortune and. from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadlme for next-day class1fieds IS 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ NEED 4 GA TICKETS FOR AIR­ 2 FSU GA'S 4 SALE  ** SEINFEST '94!! **  
NOTICES  Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ FOR SALE  FORCE GAME IN EXCHANGE FOR CASH AND A JOB. CALL  ERIC 254-0719  SUB'S Comedy Talent Show Starring: Taylor Mason  
panies. World travel (Hawaii,  LARRY OR KATHY (708)495·2711.  2 FSU GA TIX FOR SALE.  Thurs. Nov. 3 8:00  
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.)  Spring Break Early Specials!  CALL LIX W/BEST OFFER ­ p.m.  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12  I need tickets to PHISH ... any show.  284-4342.  Lafortune Ballroom ­2nd Floor  
NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/1 0-6  ment available. No experience nee·  meals $2791 Panama City  call X1997  It'll be AWESOME!!  
- Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store ILOST & FOUND I  essary. For more information call1· 206-634-0468 ext. C55B41  Oceanview Kitchens $129! Cancun & Jamaica $3991 Day1ona $1591 Keys $2291 CocoaBeach $159! 1­800·678-6386  Need 2 AIR FORCE GAs Please call Curtis 282-2197  PERSONAL Seamaisin at the Midway Tavern, 2  FREE HOT WINGS!! HEY COUNSELOR! REACH OUT  
TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK  For Sale: 2 FSU Tix  blocks So. of Hacienda on 4th  AND TOUCH ME. CAN'T HANDLE  
TO THE ERIC WHO BOUGHT MY  '95! LOWEST PRICESI JAMAICA,  Call x1752  Street... ... Every Thursday  THE WORLD PULLING ME  
BYU TIX, I WANT MY BOOKLET  CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE.  JAMES TAYLOR TICKETS  APART. CIRCUS! DESPAIR FOL­ 
BACK. I LOST YOUR PH #, SO  BOOK EARLY AND SAVE$$$!  5th ROWIIIII  MUSICAL THEATER @ NO  LOWS EVERYWHERE. NEED  
PLEASE CALL ME AT 289-9420.  ORGANIZE GROUP, TRAVEL  call: -1240 or -1082  Need 2 Air Force GA's  Experienced director looking for  YOU. HEART STOPS WHEN YOU  
FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURS1­ call Pat x2213  music director for musical audition­ ENTER A ROOM. -FLAME  
FOUND: two men's ties that acci­ 800-426-7710  ing in Dec. and performing in Feb.  
dentally fell off someone's dry  EA HOCKEY for IBM  PLEASEI I need 2 studenttix or  COTH sponsored. Interested? Call  Notre Dame's Traditional Irish Band  
cleaning. They were found about  Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  1994 players with trades, etc ...  GA's to Air Force. Call Kristy at  Cara @271-9364.  ... Seamaisin .... 1st CD atthe  
two weeks ago in front of Crowley.  Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  almost brand new, has all books  x2562  Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas  
Call X2140 for more information.  1 (800)359-9808  and the registration form.  Learn Korean From Experienced  
best offer; call Tom at4-1712  JAMES TAYLOR MAIN FLOOR  Teacher. Call288-9451  
WANTED  Wantedl!llndividuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING  TICKETS  272-7233 FLORIDA STATE TICKETS  OPEN AUDITIONS The St. Edward's Hall Players  Carrie: Hope all is well with you and Cheyne. I haven't seen either of you online. Please answer your e­ 
1 Membership ..Privileges or Just  BREAK '95. Earn substantial  FOR SALE 277·1659  Are holding open auditions for their  mail, or call me 612.647.6675. Mark  
Lou It XL shirt. $Tom X2042  MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  production of Ayn Rand's  T  
INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­ 272·6551  "NIGHT OF JANUARY 16TH"  
MACRI'S DELl  800-327·6013  NEED AF GA'S OR STUD TIX  Wed. and Thurs. Nov. 2nd + 3rd  
Now hiring most positions. Good  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  X3098  7:00 to 9:00 PM St. Ed's Chapel.  TROOP ND TRYOUTS  
starting pay plus benefits and  Wanted!!! Individuals and Student  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  2nd floor St. Ed's  
bonus programs. Experience  Organizations to Promote SPRING  OPEN AUDITIONS  Last Day to Learn the Routine:  
helpful but not necessary. We train.  BREAK '95. Earn substantial  I need a stud tick or GA for AF  2 FSU-ND TIX  THURS. NOV 3, 8-10pm  
Apply within at either location:  MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL  II!I!Piease call Connie x3604!!!!!  25 yard line, upper deck, Third row,  CHISEL·AII ages shawl  In 219 Rockne  
214 Niles Av., S. Bend, 282-1351  INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­ seats 19&20. Call Greg, 904-673­ This Saturday Nov. 5, 94  FINAL TRYOUT  
or 6502 Grape Rd., Mishawaka  800-327-6013  8812 Best offer.  in the LaForturne Ballroom  SAT. NOV 5, 2 pm  
277-7273.  It's my dad's 50th Birthday and I  9:00pm  In the PIT of the JACC  
STUDENT TRAVEL SALES I  FOR RENT  want to make his day. You can help mell Sell me  2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235·3394  $1.00 The loft series not brought to you  Q's call Lisa 273-6033 or Emile X3589  
Sunchase Tours is seeking ambi­ FOUR AIR FORCE GAS  NEED 2 OR 3 AF GAs. CALL  from some dollar store but by  
tious sales reps to promote ski and  THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  Please????II  DREW 232·3769  WVFI and SUBI  you're the biggest grapevine i know  
beach trips for Spring Break '95!  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  Thanks. Michelle 284-5512  
Earn cash and free trips. CAll  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  Blow your cool  FREEKS•FREEKS•FREEKS!!  
today: 1-800 SUNCHASE.  NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  I NEED 3 AF GAsl Sam X4872  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 AIR  WVFI is now louder and clearer on  
OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ FORCE GA'S. CALL JOSE  your radio. Tune to 640 AM for  George and the Freeks will be  
ACTORS ACTORS ACTORS  773-2034  $$NEEDED$$  X1661.  new music!  playing  
for the St. Ed's Hall Players'  AIR FORCE GA'S  
production of Ayn Rand's  ROOMS  CALL GARY  NEEDED-Air Force GA or STUD  Hey Chunkl You're in the paper, in  TONIGHT  
"NIGHT OF JANUARY 16TH"  Lovely clean home 7 mi. away for  :?.77·9279  call ann x4544  the paper ... Happy 19th big guyl!!  @Bridget's I 10:30 p.m.  
Auditions are Wed. and Thurs. Nov.  ovemite gusts for NO games or  Jeet?  
2nd and 3rd. St. Ed's Chapel  other NO events. Former ND grad.  4 SALE: 2 AF & 2 FSU GA I!  1 FSU TIX for sale, Call Christina  All the best,  FREEKS•FREEKS•FREEKS!I  
on the 2nd floor. All are welcome.  Very reasonable 291-2279.  3373justin  @284-5543  Tyler , Murray and Greve  

-----------~
-------------------------------------~----------­Wednesday, November 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• BASEBAll.. • HOCKEY 
Four groups make expansion bids Detroit fan sues 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN "If there's not a new collec­feel we're at the top of the list Associated Press tive bargaining agreement, it's and we're moving forward with unlikely we can make a positive every expectation we'll be 
NHL over strike 
CHICAGO 

Baseball owners. who don't know when the strike will end, were looking several years ahead today when they listened to groups seeking expansion teams. 
Groups from St. Petersburg, Fla., and Phoenix and two from -northern Virginia were sched­uled to make 90-minute pre­sentations to the owners' ex­pansion committee. 
A group from Orlando, Fla., will make its presentation at a later date. 
Owners also were to hear a report from investment banker James Wolfensohn about the price of the teams. 
Baseball executives have said recently they expect the price tag to be $100 million to $150 million. 
Two new franchises are ex­pected to be added for the 1997 or 1998 season, although 1996 is a remote possibility if the strike is settled soon. 
John Harrington, the chief executive officer of the Boston Red Sox and the head of the expansion committee, said he hopes owners for a vote on teams by February. 
recommendation," Harrington said last week. "It's tough to make a recommendation with the cloud hanging over the fu­ture." 
When the Florida Marlins and Colorado Rockies received ap­proval in JUly 1991 to join the National League, the price was $95 million each. Those teams began play in 1993. 
Last summer, the Baltimore Orioles were sold for $173 mil­lion -a record price for a baseball franchise. The Pittsburgh Pirates, San Diego Padres and Oakland Athletics currently are for sale. 
The last two pro sports ex­pansion teams, the Toronto Raptors and Vancouver Grizzlies of the NBA, cost $125 million apiece. The Jacksonville Jaguars and Carolina Panthers were admitted to the NFL in 1993 at a cost of $140 million each. 
The Phoenix group made its presentation first, followed by St. Petersburg and the two Virginia groups. 
"We feel we'll be one of the two teams because we have the strongest package of market, ownership and management. I awarded a franchise,"said Jerry Colangelo, president of the NBA's Phoenix Suns and the head of the Phoenix base­ball group. 
Four groups that applied ­three from Mexico and one from Vancouver. British Columbia -weren't scheduled for presentations and don't ap­pear to be getting much con­sideration. 
If and when the c«;~mmittee decides to admit two new teams, owners will still have to decide which league to place them in. 
If one team is added to the American League and one to the National, it would neces­sitate interleague play -which several owners have said they would like to see in the near future. 
Colangelo made no secret of his preference. 
"We feel we're a natural fit for the NL West, and we did some polling in which 60 per­cent of our fans said they believe we should be in the National League. 
"Besides, I grew up a Chicago Cubs fan and I want a National League team." 

l.m.Jru:; ICAL CHOIR 
FoucCHOIR 
WOMEN's CHOIR 
CoRDPRIMAVIRA 
DE NUESTRA 
S~ORA 
VOICES OF FAmt GOSPEL ENSEMBL! 
ST. PHILOMENA PARISH 
CHilDREN'S CHOIR 
NEW MACEDONIA M!SSIONARY RAPmr CHUI\CH Yotm1 CHOIR 
SPEAKER: FR RICO HERNANDEZ 
NOVEMBERS, 1994 STEPAN CENTER 7PM 
By A.J. DICKERSON 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

A Red Wings season-ticket 
holder is suing the club over 
the NHL's longest work stop­
page, saying owners forced 
ticket holders to pay up early 
this year as a ploy to get inter­
est-free money. 
The breach-of-contract law­
suit filed Monday in Wayne 
County Circuit Court seeks sta­
tus as class-action litigation on 
behalf of all 1994-95 Detroit 
season ticket holders, and a 
minimum of $10,000 in dam­
ages. 

Linda LeSage of Gibraltar, a 
season-ticket holder for 12 
years, also seeks interest on 
the $4,000 she paid in July for 
her two seats, said her lawyer, 
Gary Eisenberg of Southfield. 
"She's angered and she's up­
set, she sees the fans as the 
victims in this money-grab -­
as well as having had her 
money used for all these 
months," Eisenberg said 
Tuesday. 
"I think they had some indi­
cation the season was not going 
to begin on time ... and they 
needed some money," he said. 
Bill Jamieson, public relations 
director for the Red Wings, 
said: "We haven't seen the law­
suit and because of that can't 
comment. But we're committed 
dw.,e'!lr.All.Q.s.,_we ,r~J!e~s~g o.!lr 
ticket refund policy on Oct. 27 
and checks for that will be· 
released next week." 
Last week, the Red Wings an­
nounced they would issue re­
fund checks monthly to season­
ticket holders, based on the 
number of games canceled the 
previous month. That policy 
took effect Tuesday. 
Eisenberg contends the Red 
Wings made season-ticket 
holders pay the full amount of 
their tickets in July, while in 
past years the club sought only 
a $200 deposit with full pay­
ment due just before the sea­
son started. 

LeSage has an unlisted tele­
phone number and could not 
be reached for comment. But 
her lawyer describes her as an 
avid sports fan and an assem­
bly line worker for Ford Motor 
Co. 

"This is a big expenditure for 
her," he said of the Red Wings 
tickets. 

No hearing dates have been 
set in LeSage's suit, which al­
leges the team breached its 
contract to fans while profiting 
from the collection of presea­
son ticket sales. 

The owners' lockout went into 
its second month Tuesday. 
Labor talks Monday yielded 
nothing substantial toward a 
collective bargaining agree­
ment to replace the pact that 
expired Sept. 15, 1993. Without 
an agreement, the owners 
locked out the players at the 
start of the season Oct. 1. 
Some locked out players are 
heading overseas. 

Detroit forward Sergei 
Fedorov headlines 19 players 
who begin a five-city series of 
exhibition games next week in 
Russia. 

LeSage is not the first fan to 
'Sb~'! Mi'cbael MWfcki."'42;')'0f Brantford, Ontario, on Oct. 11 sued the NHL, its owners and _commissioner Gary Bettman for refusing to start the season. Tbe Toronto Maple Leafs fan's suit contends owners locked out the players and neglected the rights of fans with "mali­
cious intent." 


RETREAT 
DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to dHpen 
your undeBtandlng of yourself, your veluea, your relattonahlp with Chrlat, your experience of Chrlatiln 
community end Hf¥1ce. 
December 2-4, 1994 
November 1-7 
November 7-4:00 p.m. 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 

1-1 
0fv'J'IJS
$25.00 

MNtSlRY 


Wednesday, November 4, 1994
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 

Purdue QB will miss final games 
Associated Press 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Purdue quarterback Rick Trefzger will undergo recon­structive surgery on his left knee and will miss the rest of the season, coach Jim Colletto said Tuesday. 
Trefzger tore the anterior cru­ciate ligament during Saturday's 21-21 tie with Iowa. 
"He did not get hit," Colletto said. "He just planted his leg and tore the same ligament he tore in high school." 
The surgery will be performed over the Thanksgiving break because there is too much swelling in the knee now, Colletto said. 
Backup Billy Dicken will start the final three games for the Boilermakers (4-2-2, 2-1-2 Big Ten). 
"It really isn't any change at 
all. Billy runs the offense very 
well," Colletto said of a possible 
difference in the Boilermakers' 
offense under a new quarter­
back. "There's not really any­
thing we have to drop or 
change. In fact, he gives us a 
little more mobility than we 
had before. 

"So other than not having a 
lot of game experience ... that's 
the only thing that will handi­
cap him a little bit." 

Purdue plays No. 20 Michigan (5-3, 3-2) on Saturday. 
"It's one of those quirks, hut you feel had because he's such a good kid," Colletto said of Trefzger, a sophomore who completed 74 of 131 passes for 1,137 yards this season. 
The 6-foot-2 lefty had three touchdown passes and was in­tercepted six times. Trefzger had been the starter since tak­ing over for an injured Matt Pike in the sixth game last sea­son. He connected on 90 of 154 passes for 1,247 yards in 1993 and kept the job when Pike re­turned from his shoulder in­jury. 
Dicken completed 12 of 24 passes for 200 yards after Trefzger went down on Saturday. 
"You hate to see Rick get hurt, but we shouldn't miss a heat," Colletto said. "There are some things Billy does better and there are some things Rick does better. Billy is quicker on foot. We'll have to play to his strengths." 
The Boilermakers need two 
victories in their final three 
games to get a bowl bid. 
Purdue is at Michigan State 
Nov. 12 and hosts Indiana Nov. 
19. 
Brian Goehl is Dicken's back­
up. Starting wide receiver Burt 
Thornton, recruited as a quar­
terback, is the emergency pass­
er. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MIMI -STING  
"The Role of Sex in Relationships" Christian Perspectives ADiscussion Led By: Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. Notre Dame Theology Department Wednesday, November 2, 7:15pm Stanford-Keenan Chapel ALL WELCOME Spc)nsored by 4th Day(Ny\PUSMINISTRY  

The Ski Club will have a meeting in 118 Nieuland at 
8:00 pm on Thursday, November 3. There are 20 spots remaining for the Xmas trip to Crested Butte. Balances are due for those already signed up. Contact J<evin Malone with questions at 272­1352. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Climbing Wall -Climbing wall orientation sessions will be held on the following Sundays at 12:30pm to 2:00pm: November 6, November 13, November 20, and December 4. All participants must sign-up in advance in the RecSports office. Space is limited. 
Women's Basketball -The women's basketball team will appear on television twice this year. First, on February 10 at 7:00pm against Butler. Second against Northern Illinios on February 23 at 9:00pm. RecSports Yoga -Class #2 begins Wednesday, Nov. 2. 5:45-7:00, Room 114 Loftus. 

R E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 

Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also receive of talented students. If you qualify, 
an allowance of up to $1000 each these merit-based scholarships can .....--.-.. school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational ~.....~~ effect. Find out today if you qualify 
ARMY ROTC 

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
THE BE KER PA REVIEW COURSE 
Invites you to attend a presentation on 
"SELLING YOURSELF FOR A CAREER IN ACCOUNTING FROM THE RESUME TO THE OFFER" 
Wednesday, November 2, 1994 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER SORIN ROOM -5:30P.M. 
(Pizza and pop will be served) 
Drawing for a free Cross Pen and Pencil Set. Special college student discount available to all attending. For further info, call: 
277--4366 

Wednesday, November 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
"It really sets a good pace for 
• POWER POLL 
us, and lets us know that we
MCC
• PowER Pou.
Seeds 
can do well," he continued.
1. Pangborn (1) 5-1 
continued from page 16 "Right now we're just looking
continued from page 16 
forward to districts, where our
1. Carroll {1) 3-0-1 
2. Lyons (2) 5-1 
this race." 
goal is to qualify for nationals." 
2. Off-Campus (2) 3-1 Lyons ended up No.3 
3. Siegfried (3) 4-0-2 
"It's been kind of a luke·­
Piane echoed Ruder's em­
because of their head-to-head 
warm season, so I think this
3. Stanford (3) 3-1 
phasis on the national tourna­
4. Off-Campus (4) 4-1-1
loss to Pangborn. 
really put everyone in the 
ment. "All of our other meets
4. Keenan (4) 3-1 The most interesting aspect 
5. Lewis{5) 3-2-1 
rhythm," he said. "We did 
are in the past now," he said.
of the brackets are that none 
have some concern about our
5. Zahm (5) 2-0-2 
6. P.E. (6) 2-1-3 
"The whole season is going to
of the teams will be playing 
cohesiveness, but Saturday 
boil down to districts and
6. Fisher (7) 2-2 teams in the opposite divi­
7. Walsh {7) 4-2 
proved that we can do it." 
nationals."

sions. Due to this, all the
7. Alumni (8) 1-1-2 
8. B.P. {10) 3-3
teams face a new challenge in 
8. Planner {6) 2-2 
9. P.W. (9) 2-2-2
the first round and if the play­
offs mirror the regular season 
Lions have light line 
9. Grace (9) 2-2 
10. Badin {8) 3-3
there could be some suprises.
10. St.Ed's {10) 1-2-1 
11. Howard ( 11) 1-5 
By MICHAEL A. GIARRUSSO Before reporters could ask
''I'm pretty happy with the 
Associated Press questions about his perfor­
11. Morrissey {11) 1-3 way the pairings turned out," 
12. Farley {12) 0-4-1 
mance following Penn State's
said intramural cordinator
12. Sarin (13) 0-4 
13. Knott {14) 0-5
Greg Kigar. "We did not 
63-14 victory over Ohio State
STATE COLLEGE, Pa.
13. Dillon {12) 0-4 intend for each team to play 
14. 'Naugh {13) 0-6 
Saturday, Collins praised his
Unlike other college pro­
someone out of their division. 
offensive line. 

(Previously Ranked) 
{Previously Ranked) 
grams that want gargantuan
Tha~·s just the way it turned 
"The offensive line did an
offensive linemen who can
out. 

outstanding job today," he
dominate a game with brute 
Sophomore Literary Festival Student Reading!!! 
Take this opportunity to read on the very stage where Allen Ginsberg, Margaret Atwood, Kurt Vonnegut, and Tennesse Williams have all once read! 
•

: *Sophomore Literary Festival is inviting students to submit work • : (poetry and prose) for its 1st Annual Student Reading, to be held : • February 14, 1995. : 
: *All submitting writers are required to attend an oral audition on • : Thursday, Nov. 10. Writers must read a short (5-10 minute) selection : 
• and submit a written copy of that selection to the judges as well. : 
• 
: * Time and place of audition will be announced after break, so be : attentive to future ads and signs! (For more info, call Kate at #4828.) • 
strength, Penn State prefers to use finesse and tenacity. 
"We've got great technique," said 6-foot-5, 280-pound guard Marco Rivera. "We'll get into guys and keep blocking until the whistle blows. That's one thing coaches emphasize, and it works." 
It's certainly worked so far. Despite the lack of behemoths, the line has helped the No. 2 Nittany Lions (7-0) lead the na­tion in scoring with a 50.3­point average and total offense with 542.7 yards per game. 
"It's not an overpowering of­fensive line. We don't have any 325-pounders or anything like that," coach Joe Paterno said. "But they all run well, they've got good feet and they pass protect well." 
Kerry Collins, the nation's 
top-rated passer. agrees . 
said. "Sure I was 19 for 23 and Ki­
~ 
Jana (Carter) had four touch­downs, but I had all day back I 
I 
j 
there, and when you have all day you can find the open re­ceivers." 
Collins, who weighs about 240 pounds, isn't much small­er than 6-foot-3, 270-pound center Bucky Greeley and 6­foot-3, 278-pound guard Jeff Hartings . 
Penn State's front five aver­ages less than 285 pounds, and only 6-foot-7 tackle Keith Conlin tops 300. 

Wednesday, Novetnber 2, 1994 Hayes--Healy Business Building--Rootn 222 University of Notre Datne 
6:30p.m.... 7 p.m. "An Introduction to Natural Family Planning" ... This short overview session is free, however materials will be available at a nominal fee. It is open to all interested persons. 
7 p.m....9:30 p.m. An instructional class series begins for engaged and married persons. The fee/per couple is $125 for 6 classes; financial aid is av~ilable. To register please call: 
Sponsors 
The Natural Family Planning Program Office of Campus Ministry 
of St. Joseph County, INC. University of Notre Dame 
410 N. Notre Dame Ave., SB 631,5242 0fv1PUS 
tv11NISTRY
237,7405 



page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 2,1994 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL • SAINT MARY'S VOU.EYBAU. 
Former MSU player Belles lose setter, split games 
By DOMINICK CAPOZZOLA miss the team's final match "Actually, it was our passing 
Saint Mary's Sports Writer next week in Goshen. that went down. I think that's "[Kelly's injury] was a big what hurt us." 
admits stalking Perles 
By JUAN B. ELIZONDO Jr. 
Associated Press 

EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Michigan State coach George Perles has gone from defending his football program to de­fending his personal safety. 
Perles got a restraining order Tuesday against a former play­er who has raised allegations of possible NCAA rules violations. 
Roosevelt Wagner, the dis­gruntled ex-player, was quoted in The Detroit News on Tuesday that he once plotted to kill the Michigan State coach. 
''I'm concerned about one person-not me, my wife, Sally," Perles told the Lansing State Journal. 
Ingham County Circuit Judge Michael Harrison signed the order aimed at preventing Wagner from coming in contact with Perles and his family. 
Perles referred all calls about the incident to university offi­cials. A spokesman for the school didn't return telephone calls seeking comment. 
Wagner, who attended Michigan State from 1988 to 1991, told the News he plotted to kidnap and kill his former coach after he was passed over in the 1992 NFL draft. He blamed Perles for the snub imd said he followed the coach home for two days in April 1992, carrying two loaded pis­tols. 
"I had this whole scenario 
made up in my mind," Wagner, 
24, told the News in a series of 
recorded telephone interviews. 
"I was gonna kidnap him and 
take him and shoot him some­
where in all them woods" not 
far from Perles' home. 
"Wouldn't nobody ever found 
the body." 

The former lineman from 
Ravenna, Ohio, said he gave up 
BIRTHDAY NICOLE!! "Good on ya!" Luv ya, Mom, Dad, 
kinko•s® 
the copy center 
2202-C South Bend Ave. Greenwood Plaza 271-0398 
109 E. Jefferson Jefferson Centre 234-8709 

Erick and Maura 
Faster, bigger and outperfori!Jing the competition. 
kinko't 
the copy center:r-..-;....:_.J 

the idea after concluding Perles "would dictate the rest of your life if you did something like that." 
The News said no one wit­nessed the alleged stalking. 
Kim Eddie, chief assistant prosecutor for Ingham County, said the prosecutor's office is aware of the situation, but can't do anything for now. 
"You've got the issue that this goes back beyond the (January 1993 stalking) statute," Eddie said. "There's no crime by the word itself." 
Eddie said if Wagner ignores the court order to stay away from Perles, then Prosecutor Donald Martin could consider charges. 
Wagner told the Journal he's concerned for his safety. He said he's carrying a weapon to protect himself from anyone who may try to silence him. 
"If they send someone to get me, I'm not going down by myself," Wagner told the news­paper. 
Wagner earlier leveled nearly 70 allegations of rules viola­tions at Michigan State, includ­ing cash payments to players from team boosters and grades changed to keep players eligi­ble. The State Journal reported the allegations Sunday and Monday. 
Perles, whose team is 3-5 this 
season, said he runs a "super­
clean" program, but such alle­
gations have to be examined. 
"People make allegations and 
it's our job and our duty to in­
vestigate them," Perles said 
Monday. 
University President M. Peter 
McPherson ordered the uni­
versity to appoint an indepen­
dent co-investigator to review 
the charges. 
It's the third in-house probe 
of alleged athletic infractions at 
Michigan State in four years. 
HAPPY 

The role of leader is para­mount in competitive sports. The loss of a good leader can seriously impair the chances of victory. 
Unfortunately, this loss is what plagued the Saint Mary's volleyball team last night as their setter, Kelly Meyer, injured her ankle in the first match of a double-header. 
In the second game against Anderson, Kelly twisted her ankle as she apparently stepped on her teammate's foot. · 
This injury will force Kelly to 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
WHAT 
IS THE LARGEST 
FUND-RAISER AT NOTRE DAME? 
' 
TH·.,· · ·Err. s·.· Hr-..· 1... I.R"··.., · T• • 
APPLICATIONS ARE BEING TAKEN FOR EXECUTIVE COORDINATOR 
NOW IS THE TIME TO BECOME INVOLVED: -GIVE YOUR RESUME A SERIOUS UPGRADE -SUPPORT THE NEEDS OF VARIOUS STUDENT 
ORGANIZATIONS -IMPROVE YOUR LEADERSHIP SKILLS -ASSURE THAT THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT 
BODY WILL AGAIN BE DRESSED BETTER THAN SPIKE LEE THE NEXT TIME HE TAGS ALONG WIT STANFORD 
APPLICATIONS CAN BE PICKED UP AT THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IN 31 5 LAFORTUNE 
LATEST DATE FOR CONSIDERATION WILL BE NOV. 21, 1994 AT 4:00 PM. 
adjustment, a big focus prob­lem, as the scores show," said head coach Julie Schroeder­Biek. 
Indeed, the loss of their leader was reflected in the scores as they lost the following three matches 15-9, 15-3, 15-3, losing the match against Anderson in four games. They won the first game 15-13. 
Sarah Stronczek, the middle blocker, was placed into the setter's position where she played earlier in the season. 
"She stepped into the role real well," said Schroeder-Biek. 

STUDENTS' NIGHT 
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
vs. ILLINOIS-CHICAGO 
FRIDAY NIGHT • 7 P.M. doyce Center Fieldhouse 
• 
FREE.ADMISSION (with student ID) 

• 
FREE 6·1NCH BLIMPIE SUBS (with student ID) • other prizes, contests and giveaways 


Stronczek is one of the Belles' finer passers, and her new role as setter prevented her from making the initial pass. This opened up holes in the Belles defense. 
The team rallied around Stronczek, though, in the sec­ond match against Albion. They won in five games: 15-7, 15-13, 9-15, 14-16, and 15-7. One key to the Belles victory was the remarkable play of Meg Kelly, who amassed 44 digs, 34 kills, and 9 blocks throughout the evening. 

Wednesday, November 2, 1994 The Observer· TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
oo~'l s11 t'\t.x1 
TO ME, CI>-1..'1\N. I 001-i\ Wf>..t{\ \0 \\l:.f>-R AN'I 
DISGUS1WG 
CO!o\t.\ENG AtlJ\JT L\JtKI-\. 
DILBERT 
THE EMPLOYEE. SURVEY SI-\OWED THAT 95"lo OF THE COMPANY BELIEVES WE. 1-\/WE NO CONSISTENT 5\RATEGY 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28lnnocentone 29 Entirety
1 Tick off 32 Communion 
5 Jerry Herman table 
musical 
33 TV's "Batman," 9 Scarf e.g. 14 Tennis's 340ilof­lvanisevic, often 35 Learning 15 "Fatal method that Attraction" "works for me" villain 38 "Indecent 16 Bust finds Proposal" director Adrian 
17 Diner's card 
39 Jokesters

18 1953 Leslie 
400ne

Caron role 
quadrillionth:

19 Long time 
Prefix 20 # 1 song for 
41 Vane dir. 

Robert Palmer 
42lllwill 23 At that point 
43#,&or% 24 Bookbinding 44 Either star of leather "Tea and 25 At regular Sympathy" intervals 45 To you, to Yves 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Yuletide snack 5 Ice cream treat 6 Xenophobe's Puzzle by Trip Payne 
fear 26 Artful dodges 7 Pinochle 27 Pay the penalty combo 28 "Tootsie" Oscar 8 Turnoffs winner 
9 It fell in 1979 
29 Out on ­10 Attach, as a 
30 Milk: Prefix 

feed bag 31 Popular11 King Harald's 
disinfectant father 
33 Checking12 Folk tales 
places ~~~+=t-B 13 Slalom shape 34 "Hold on ..." ~:::+.::-+:'+7+.:-17:-1 21 Beloved 36 Happy, for one -=+=+:::-E+=-1 22 Energy 37 1934 song "The -=+.:::+.::-+-;+.::-t 25 Humorist Mort Very,Thought et al. 

Hosting A Party to Remember -A Checklist For Successful Socializing 
.J Does your party have a theme? Themes add fun .J Are you familiar with proper methods for dealing with by providing a focus other than alcohol. Intoxicated people? If not, contad the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education@ 631-7970 . 
.J Have you provided food? Cheese, dips, vegetables and other snacks are popular -they also slow the effects of .J Have you arranged safe transponatlon for anyone who alcohol and give your guest an alternative to drinking. may have had too much to drink? If not, call a cab. 
.J Have you made non-alcohol drinks available? .J Have you followed college rules and local and state This will make guest who are underage, or who choose not to laws In planning your event? This is an essential step in trying drink for other reasons, feel welcome. to protect yourself from liability . 
.J Are you using trained "banenders"? Your event will be more enjoyable if those serving drinks have been trained For more information, contact the Office of Alcohol and Drug In methods tor preventing drunkenness and refusing service Education at 631-7970. to intoxicated people. 
BILL WATTERSON 

WI-\1>.\S 1\\£ \l\rR:.R£.\KE BE1"'t-IITN. A. Gf>.ROEN SL\l<; MD f.-1~() -I !\C.I-\-\..C)NG-, 
L\\1\N.C.:,. 'i:IOOGt.R" 
SCOTT ADAMS 

WE'VE NAf\ROWED IT DOWN TO EIH\ER "EMPLOYEES ARE NINNIES II OR "WE OESEf\VE /"\ORE. STOCK 
OPTIONS." 
1 

1 
0 

.. 

•FREE FLU SHOTS• November 1, 2, and 3, 1994 
10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. at Hesburgh Library 
Concourse and 

10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. at LaFortune Student Center, Dooley Room 
.... 
SHORT SLEEVES ARE REQUIRED NOTRE DAME ID MUST BE PRESENTED 
42 Goddess of Hades 
43 One of the Virgin Islands 
44 Filled turnover 45Give-of one's own medicine 
46 Nonsense song of 1918 47 Hand or foot 48 Exclude 49 Mr. Kristofferson 50 Does not exist 51 Life of Riley 52 Crowd around 

SO THE EXECUTIVES 
FOf\f"\ED A "QUALITY TEAM'' TO DETER!'\INE TI-\E f\OOT CAUSE OF 
TP.E PROBLEM 
46 Empty-calorie lover 
52 Craze 
53 Novel featuring Doctor Long Ghost 54 Bear in the sky 55 Keats or Wordsworth 56 Mash preceder 57 Sardine containers 58 Wash 
59 Light submachine gun 
so Noted Renaissance name 
DOWN 
1 Doll's cry 2 Like some tea 3 Ward (off) 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
SPORTS 

5 Keenan November13 Stepan 
Irish rake in MCC honors 
By KATE CRISHAM 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's cross country discovered that there are very few things that a seventh consecutive Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship can't cure. 
The 15th-ranked Irish dispelled any lingering fears of a lack of confidence or team cohesivesness on Saturday with a near-perfect performance at the MCC championships in Chicago. The Irish swept the top four positions to finish with 19 points, 38 points ahead of near­est competitor Loyola. 
Senior John Cowan captured the individual championship, covering the course in 24:55, while freshman Jason Hexing, who placed ninth, garnered Newcomer of the Year honors. 
According to head coach Joe Piane, who was named Coach of the Year, the win provided a needed confidence boost as his team looks forward to the district and national championships. 
"We're definitely running better," said Piane. "We needed to run well prior to districts, to give us some impe­tus." 
"We definitely needed that win and we needed to run like that," he said. "They ran in a pack and pushed each other, which is what we need since we don't have an obvious number one run­ner like last year." 
Senior Nate Ruder captured second place by covering the course in 24:56. He was followed by junior Joe Dunlop who placed third in 25:57 and sopho­more Matt Althoff, who garnered fourth in 25:02. 
According to Ruder, Saturday's per­formance will prove useful as the Irish approach NCAA qualifying crunch time. 
"Even though it really wasn't that big of a meet, we were really pleased that we did so well," said Ruder. "I definite­ly think a lot of people needed to run 
see MCC/ page 13 
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Women's Cross Country 
The Irish women's cross country squad won their third straight MCC championship on Saturday. Notre Dame's Kristi Kramer claimed conference individual honors. 

of note...
BELLES VOLLEYBALL 
See tomorrow's Observer for 
The loss of setter Kelly Meyer leads to mixed 
complete details on the
results for the Saint Mary's volleyball team. women's cross country squad's M CC championship.
See page 13 





