
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Miller released on bond after arrest 
Former wide  By GEORGE DOHRMANN Spons Editor  Dame Tuesday, surrendered to the Fort Bend County Sheriff's department  stolen checks. Miller was suspected to be involved after  
receiver linked to fraudulent  Former Notre Dame wide receiver Michael Miller was released on $5,000 bond yesterday,  Wednesday. "He showed up with an attorney in one hand and bond in another," Fort Bend Sheriff's Detective Rodney Glendening said Thursday.  his name showed up on an airline ticket, Glendening said. The ticket was allegedly bought with checks that were stolen. "Several guys in Houston, Texas, have legitimate checking accounts, go to police  
check-writing scandal in  one day after Texas police arrested him on an indict­ment charging him with organized criminal activi­ty in what authorities say  Arraignment was scheduled for Nov. 21 in Texas state court in Fort Bend County, just southwest of Houston. Miller faces as much as ten years in prison if convicted. Glendening said Miller and two former  departments and report the checks stolen and sign affidavits that they are stolen," Glendening told the Assoeiated Press. "In the meantime, they (the thieves) go on shopping sprees."  
Texas  was a fraudulent check­Miller writing scheme.  high school classmates allegedly purchased over $50,000 worth of merchandise and  Authorities said Miller was among a gro.up that went through Houston's  

Miller, who was dismissed from Notre airline tickets over the past 18 months with 

umber of Notre Dame students . male and female housing should be fairly 
may boast of spending their "Freshmen must live even, according to Kevin Cannon, direc­ights toiling over books in dorm tor of Residence Life since September 1. 
together. You can't just put
study lounges, but there are few who can "If Cavanaugh had not been converted truthfully say that they sleep there every them anywhere." this year, the University would now be 
night. facing a long waiting list for housing for This year, nearly seventy freshmen in -Kevin Cannon women. Typically, females have a ten­Grace and Planner Halls have this privi­dency to stay on campus longer than lege. Nine study lounges in Planner and men," said Cannon. "As it is now, we 
part of the University's gender-blind ad­
eight in Grace have been temporarily have no empty spaces for men and only a 
missions policy. Since being implemented 
changed into four-person dorm rooms to few for women." 
three years ago, this policy has resulted
accommodate the displacement caused The situation is not permanent, howev­
in a larger enrollment o.f women under­
by Cavanaugh's conversion to a female er. Next year, "It may happen that 50 
graduates.
dorm. women have to live in lounges," accord-
Cavanaugh is the second dorm in three 
"This is partly a result of Cavanaugh ing to Cannon. 1 
years to be converted. In 1992, Pangborn 
going down," said Father William "Our main goal is that all of our fresh­
Hall welcomed its first female residents. 
Seetch, the rector of Planner Hall. men get rooms on campus," said 
The conversions of Cavanaugh as well
Cavanaugh Hall, which contains 242 Cannon. "But we don't know year to year 
as Pangborn were intended to alleviate
beds, was changed to a female dorm this exactly how many upperclassmen are 
the severe shortage of campus housing
year to help preserve the 45/55 percent going to stay or how many are going to 
for women. In previous years, more
ratio of women to men undergraduates. return to dorm life after studying 
women than men have lacked campus 
abroad."

The Board of Trustees decided last 
housing. Ideally, the waiting lists for
November to maintain this ratio as a 
see MIDDLE/ page 8 
see MILLER/ page 13 

Catholics hurt by media bias 
By CHRIS WilSON 
News Writer 
News stories about Catholi­cism have become "pre-pro­grammed" and often retafn some anti-Catholic residue, ac­cording to Peter Steinfels, a former religion writer for the New York Times. 
In a lecture yesterday enti­tled "How the Media Cover Catholicism: Heflections of a Perpetrator," Steinfels, also a writer for the Catholic maga­zine Commonweal, spoke on how Catholicism is perceived by the media. 
Steinfels, who currently holds the Welch Visiting Professor of American Studies at Notre Dame, said such stories are "often stale, and failures of imagination." When writing about Catholicism, he said, the press has been locked into the old journalistic rule of repeat­ing the same few stories, only re-packaging them for the readers in order to seem fresh, new, and interesting. 
One of these recurring stories concerns the church and its posi­tion on abortion. According to Steinfels, many reporters are one­minded, and "there is rarely any debate in newsrooms on abortion, birth control, or celibacy." Conse­quently, bias often creeps into those reporting on Catholic stories. 
However, Steinfels believes this is often counteracted by professionalism and good jour­nalistic practice. Despite any such bias prevalent among the media, he feels that media cov­erage concerning abortion and the church "is fairer than it was three, four, and five years ago." 
Steinfels stated that another 
example illustrating how the 
media contribute to poor news 
coverage about Catholicism is 
the reporting of sexual abuse 
of minors by priests. Steinfels 
contends that because priests 
are representative of the 
church's traditional standards 
of sexuality, the media are 
gleefully ready to seize the 
issue of sexual abuse by priests 
in order to expose the church's 
failures to meet its own stan­
dards. 
He further says the press has 
been irresponsible and has failed to 
see STEINFElS/ page 8 

Friday, November 11, 1994
page2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN • WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Honor our 


veterans, 

not Rambo 
Today is Veteran's Day. Actually, it is Armistice Day, which signifies the ending of World War I back in 1918 when President Woodrow Wilson declared a "day of mourning" for America . The name was changed in 1954 to Veterans Day in order to honor all of America's soldiers from every war or conflict. 
Despite early impor­tance, it is hardly remembered in these times. One would be hard pressed to find any specials on TV-especially on a Friday night-and usu­ally it is only ROTC or VFW who have anything significant. 
May 5th is a similar day in the Netherlands. Honoring all the fallen Dutchmen during World War Il, it is a very serious occasion. Documentaries fill the state owned channels with file footage of resistance efforts and stormings of Nazi occupied buildings. At five o'clock, there are two minutes of silence. No talking on TV and most people bow their heads and reflect upon the fallen. For the out­side observer, this is a very powerful moment. 
Why the stunning difference? As a country that was born and raised by blood and fire, one would think that .more attention would be given to the fallen. For a country which often calls upon its men and women to help pre­serve a way of life, both domestic and interna­tional, one would expect a deep respect for those who have done such. I find it disturbing­ly lacking. 
Here in America, there are very few who have any personal attachment to our veterans. The public at large is reluctant to peer into any sort of book, much less a history book, outside of school. Many depend on movies and TV shows as their guide to the US soldier. However. soldiers and vets are often pictured as unstable, as druggies or drunks, and are usually deeply troubled. Considering when the majority of entertainment media focus on the military today it usually views only the Vietnam conflict, thus earning many of these men a very bad name. Oliver Stone may call this a stereotypical truth, but I find it very dif­ferent. 
There are several veterans who are a part of my daily life. Dan McKeown, whom I worked with the past two summers, often walked point for patrols in Vietnam. Jay Krueger, a father of a friend. was a machine gunner for light infantry. Randy Vieth, also the father of a friend of mine, was a radio man often connect­ed with patrols deep into dangerous territory. My father is also a vet, having served with the artillery division of the third Marines. 
I have never heard of any Stone-esque tales out of any of these gentlemen. None of them rant and rave, or are crazy {though Dan likes square dancing). None of them are druggies or drunks, or go around beating their family. 
I don't doubt that perhaps some of what Stone packages and labels as the truth may have gone on. I also see a resemblance to his characters and other movie characters por­trayed in the typical Vietnam movie, both before and after Platoon. Let's face it. In the land of Lorena Bobbitt and O.J. Simpson. the outrageous tale is favored, sensationalized. and preferred to the normal, regardless of reality. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Kate Crisham  Susan Marx  
Edward lmbus  Jackie Moser  
Dave Tyler  Accent  
Spons  Mary Good  
Rian Akey  Tom Roland  
Viewpoint  Graphics  
Krista Nannery  Zoe Marin  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the A..sociated Pl't'SS. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Overweight teenagers growing in significant numbers 

ATlANTA 

One in five American teens is over­weight, the government reported Thursday, and experts are blaming everything from too much junk food and TV to Jack of exercise and baggy. figure-concealing grunge clothing. 
Through the 1970s, the percentage of overweight children ages 12 to 19 held steady at around 15 percent, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But that rate had jumped to 21 percent by 1991. 
The increase was not much of a sur­prise because the CDC had previously tracked a similar trend among over­weight adults, from 25 percent to 33 percent, said Jeffrey Lancashire of the CDC's National Center for Health Source:CDC 
Statistics. 
"We all -adults, ad.olescents and young children ­eat in the same environment and have access to the same healthy and unhealthy foods," he said. 
But while baby fat can melt away as a child's hormones 
Cartoonists prepare for politicians 
Get ready for more caricatures of a politician with grayish, big hair and a pudgy face. Except now Newt Gingrich, not Bill Clinton, may be dominating the editori­al cartoons. "It'll be great drawing a speaker of the House named after a lizard." laughed Steve Benson of The Arizona Republic. Well, actually a newt is an amphibian. But this isn't rocket science. "Newt's cut out of the mold cartoonists like. There's that shock of hair, and he speaks his mind without much forethought," Benson added Thursday. "We have a whole new cast of characters. This is going to make great and invigorating upheaval on the editorial pages." "It's morning in America for me. I've been born again professionally," said Signe Wilkinson, a Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist for the Philadelphia Daily News and a self-professed lib­eral. "The electorate never lets us down." The satirists who spoof politicians are gleeful because the crowd tak­ing control of Congress is straightforward about what it stands for. "This is a cartoonist's dream. There's nothing more fun than triumphant windbags," one cartoonist said. A cartoonist looks at national trauma the way a plastic surgeon looks at crow's feet or cellulite. It's too bad, but it's a living. We thrive on disaster." 
IRA charged in killing, straining truce 
DUBLIN 

Two suspected IRA gunmen were arrested in the killing of a postman in Northern Ireland today, the first slaying linked to the IRA since it declared a truce Sept. 1. No group claimed responsibility for the attack, which cast a pall over prospects for peace in the British province, riven by political and sectarian strife for a quarter centu­ry. The Irish government canceled just-announced plans to release Irish Republican Army prisoners, signaling the strong belief by both the Irish and British governments that the IRA was responsible. There was no immediate reaction from the British government or froni Sinn Fein, the IRA's political allies. The two sides are expected to begin talks soon in hopes of finding a political solution to Northern Ireland's turmoil. Northern Ireland police said two prominent IRA members were arrested after gunmen fatally shot a 54-year-old postman in the head and back in the border town of Newry, 30 miles south of Belfast. Police did not immediately identify the victim, but local media reports said he was a Catholic who had worked in the town's main post office for 30 years. 
shift into adolescent overdrive, too many overweight teens end up strug­gling with their weight the rest of their lives. 
'We know that at least some of these over­weight adolescents will grow up to be over­weight adults," Lancashire said. That means they will also run a higher risk of heart dis­ease, diabetes and arthritis. 
The report didn't examine by how much the teens were overweight, or how much body fat they had -a key indicator of health. 
What caused the increase among overweight teens also isn't clear. Lancashire said, though other studies point to too much fat and sugar in chil­dren's diets and a sedentary life spent 
APfTerry Kale in front of the television. 
Lancashire said the CDC would prefer to encourage 
exercise rather than dieting, for fear teen-agers will go 
overboard. "Unlike with adults, we have to be careful about 
instructing adolescents to go on diets," he said. 
Pistol refused to White House shooter 
COLORADO SPRINGS 
The ex-convict accused of shooting at the White House was stopped from buying a pistol a month earlier when a gun dealer ran a background check on him.No such on­the-spot check was required when he bought the rifle he allegedly used at the White House. "The law did what it was intended to do in terms of preventing Francisco Duran from purchasing a handgun on Sept. 30," said Jim Borowski, head of the state bureau of investigation's crime information center. The bureau runs checks on prospective handgun buyers in compliance with the Brady handgun control law Congress passed in February. The owner of High Country Wholesale Firearms, James Wear, said Wednesday that Duran tried to buy the pistol on Sept. 30, about two weeks after buying the semiauto­matic rifle seized in the Oct. 29 incident at the White House. On his handgun application, as on his earlier application to buy a rifle, Duran did not mention his felony assault conviction, Wear said. Felons are barred from possession of firearms. While federal law does require rifle buyers to fill out a questionnaire, there is no waiting period for a background check before the pur­chase is completed. The Brady Law includes a five-day waiting period so authorities can check handgun buyers' backgrounds. 
Hillary Clinton hurt by personal losses 
LONDON 
Hillary Rodham Clinton says deep personal losses she and President Clinton have suffered in the past two years have diminished the significance of bad publicity and criti­cism. "In the last 20 months we have suffered the loss of my father and mother-in-law and the tragic death of our friend Vince Foster. That puts things into somewhat of a perspective," Mrs. Clinton said in a BBC interview. "Those were very deep personal losses to the president and me and stacked against those the adverse publicity, the parti­sanship, the name-calling that seems, unfortunately, to be a part of American politics today, seem somewhat insignif­icant. It is, on occasion, hurtful." The first lady also spoke of mistakes the Clinton administration made in pushing for health care reform and of the Clintons' efforts to preserve their privacy. Mrs. Clinton said she didn't feel angry when the administration's health care plan ran into trou­ble, and said she and the president worked very hard to preserve their privacy. The news media also have cooper­ated in giving their daughter, Chelsea, the opportunity to be "a normal teenager," according to the BBC. 



• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
01. 4ka.W.....Inc. 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 11. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 

36 
70 58 
54 
49 
Friday, November 11, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 


Perry: Homosexuality Latin economies seek growth 
moral in some cases 
By KELLY MOORE 
News Writer 
By combining the east Asian model with North American economic phi·losophies, it is possible for Latin American countries to find a successful middle ground, according to Peter Evans, professor at the University of California. at Berkeley. 
Evans explained the success­ful east Asian state through Singapore's economic prosper­ity. Singapore is at the top many world economic cate­gories. 
The bureaucrats in Singapore are not only rewarded with a distinctive status, but also with material rewards, like $560,000 annual salaries for cabinet members. By doing so, Singapore is able to lure com­petent government workers who will be careful with public funds and work well with the private sector. 





CLUII3 
Friday 1 0:30 p.m. BABELFISH will play songs from Green Day, Cracker, Grateful Dead, Eric Clopton, Counting Crows and Originals 
Saturday Watch ND beat FSU on our BIG 
SCREEN TV 
Saturday 1 0:00 p.m. CULTURE BIDDEM REGGAE BAND featuring Papa Wayne of Kingston Jamaica 
Latin American countries, however, are unable to repli­cate this model due to historical factors unique to East Asia, namely the effects of World War II and American occupa­tion of that area. Instead, Evans proposed Latin America combine "state initiatives" with the North American ideas of so­cial action. 
What Latin America needs to do is encompass capital and la­bor. 
In other words, there needs to be a connection between state controlled economics and local mobilization of the programs made possible by these funds, Evans said. 
The more involved the people become in this process, the bet­ter. 
If information is allowed to flow in both the direction of the bureaucrats and the direction of the industrialists, the success of these programs is greatly in­creased, said Evans. 
Evans thinks there are sev­
eral lessons to be learned from this economic example. To Evans bureaucracy is key to a prosperous economy. 
"Bureaucracy is not an enemy but a scarce resource, " said Evans. Building a bureaucracy is hard, and once it is built, dif-· ficult to keep up with, said Evans. 
But an effective bureaucracy increases the capacity of the state to produce. Latin America countries, however, often consist of unequal social structures, making it difficult for the state to "address differ­ent interests as a whole." It is therefore conceivable that a successful Latin American state would encompass east Asia's ideas of bureaucracy taking into consideration the unequal social characteristics in those states. 
This sort of balance will move a Latin American state towards a more prosperous economy, Evans concluded. 
By MORRIS KARAM 
News Writer 
Homosexual behavior could in certain circumstances be considered moral, according to Northwestern University Law Professor Michael Perry. 
In his lecture yesterday, Perry responded to an article entitled "Law, Morality, and 'Sexual Orientation'" written by Oxford University Professor John Finnis in order to refute Finnis' premise that homosex­ual conduct is always morally wrong. 
"Finnis is right when he says a sexual union between man and woman in marriage is a single reality," Perry said. "But why can't any relationship, such as man and man or woman and woman, be a single reality?" 
In addition, Perry criticized Finnis' view that the only moral form of sexual activity involves post-marital intercourse aimed at child bearing, stating that "what drives his (Finnis') posi­tion is his view that any sexual conduct is morally illicit if it doesn't allow the two people to experience it as a procreative union. 
"In order to be an acceptable sexual relationship, why does there have to be children and mutual affection?" Perry said. "He fails to explain why an ac­ceptable sexual relationship can't be true of any monoga­mous relationship if it is in­trinsic and life-long. A life-long sexual relationship affirms the sexuality of lovers, even if it is­n't procreative." 
By arguing an agreeable re­lationship to be one based on longevity and mutual trust, Perry justified his belief that homosexual relationship can be morally compatible. 
Featuring: Hickory Smoked Ribs~rxihShadu(_7 Hickory Smoked Chickenit St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet Granger, Indiana Fried Chickenfifjfj~ Tender Seafood277·3143 Grilled Steaks~[1~ Deliciously Thick Pizza FAMILY STYLE SPECIAL All you can eat Ribs and Chicken Dinner $6.99 for groups of 10 or more PERFECT FOR SECTION DINNERS! Located on State Rd. 23 and Bittersweet  
ATTENTION JUNIORS (Any Major) Think it's too soon to start thinking about a summer job? WE DON'T THINK SO... • Procter &Gamble, the Company that brings you such well-known brands as Tide, Crest, Folgers, Charmin, Secret, and Duncan Hines (to name just a few)·is looking for qualified applicants to hire for summer internships. If you are creative and can demonstrate leadership and initiative, stop by Career &Placement for more information about P&G and where to send your resume. Resumes Are Due By December 16th So Pick Up An Information Packet Today!  
Club 23 • 744 N. Notre Dam1e Ave. 



1

t. I o • I I I I I '' • • • ' • I' 't '• •' 
• I I' I I I I I I 1 0 f I' I I I 1 I 1 1 <' o o I' I I, I 0' I o • • • o ' 
. . '. . . '. . . . .... 


OR CALL: 

1-800-IRISH 14 
Friday, November 11, 1994 The Observer • NEWS pageS 
Hussein makes trip to Israel 
By SAID GHAZALI 
Associated Press 
ZEMACH, Israel Shaking hands with well­
wishers and kissing a b a b y , Jordan's King Hussein put a warm human face on his peace treaty with Israel on 


T h u r s d a y , Hussein becoming only the second Arab leader to publicly visit the Jewish state. 
Hussein arrived in northern Israel by helicopter and spent nearly three hours. talking with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. He promised he would visit Jerusalem soon, but gave no date. 
While the peace treaty pre­served the Jordanian king's nominal control over Muslim holy sites in east Jerusalem, the Palestinians, who see east Jerusalem as the capital of their future state, want that role for themselves. 
A visit by Hussein to Jerusalem could provoke vio­lence. 
CRITICS LOVE THE HUQI 
':!OJIJ!.!LWDWED!'  "FUNNY.'  ..!  
-~'A_~f{fT. 11  "THIS IS•_,~[V,{Rl} 
"OUTRAGE -;;;:::.~~.~~... !!SLY FUNNY!"  II  THE ONET~,.SJ.E!"  

-----~ HIGH·FLYING_QfJJEDn;; 
""""'-~ 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE Friday & Saturday 7:30 and 9:45 pm 
DART 
COURSES ADDED 
ANTH496-02 #4446 Dir. Readings: SocioCultural Anthroplogy; var. cr. hrs.; Patrick Gaffney; Permission Required ANTH496-03 #4447 Dir. Readings: SocinCultural Anthropology; var_ cr. hrs.; Martin Murphy; Permission Required ARST 485S-OI #4442 Studio Photography; TH 01:15-04:00; 3 cr. hrs; Richard Gray; pre­requist is ARST 285S, 366S or 375S COAl 212-01 #4435 Second Year Japanese II; MTWHF 11:15­12:05; 5 cr. hrs.; Yuko Nakahama COAl 312-01 #4436 Third Year Japanese II; MWF 01:15-02:05; 3 cr. hrs.; Yuko Nakahama; pre-requisite is COAJ 331 coca 515-0I #4434 Greek Historians; TH 04:15-05:30; 3 cr. hrs.; David Ladouceur; cross-listed with COCO 455-01 ECON 380-01 #4439 Development Economics; TH 11:00-12:15; 3 cr. hrs.; Peter Skott ECON445-0I #4440 Economics of Industrial Organization; TH 02:45-04:00; 3 cr. hrs.; Anaindya Sen 
ENGL699-39 #4438 Research and Dissertation; variable credit hours; James Robinson 
GSC 346-01 #4448 Practicum; 3 credit hours; Marie Krarnb; Permission Required 
MUS401-0I #4445 String Performance Techniques; F 01 :00-02:30;1 cr. hr.; K. Buranskas, C. Plummer, C. Rutledge; cross­listed with MUS 501-01 
MUS 499-01 #4441 Undergraduate Thesis; variable credit hours; Ethan Haimo 
PHIL 295-01 #4437 Seminar Justice -Honors; TH 02:45-04:00; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required; Honors students only 
STV 456-01 #4444 Tradition & Moderization in China & Japan; MWF 11:15-12:05; 3 cr. hrs.; Peter Moody; Permission Required; cross-listed with GOVT 492N-01 
THE0582-02 #4449 Service: Secular and Christian; W 02:20-03:35; 2 cr. hrs.; Regina Coli; M.Div students only CHANGES 
AME  651-01  #3183  - Change day/time to:  TH I I :00-12:15 and change prereq­ 
uisite to:  AME 599  
AME  657-01  #3184  - Change day/time to:  TH 02:45-04:00  
BIOS  407L-02  #2325  - Change day to:  H 01:15-04:15  
CHEM  243-01  #2415  - Change time to:  MWF II: 15-12:05  
COTH  221-01  #2341  - Remove restrictions and thanged to "Permission  
Required"  
ECON  125-01  #2319  - Change time to:  TH 01:15-02:30  
ECON  663-01  #4225  - Change time to:  MW 03:50-05:05  
FIN  231  all sections  Change restriction to:  "BA stu­ 

lk!ill only through 3rd period; then open to all" 

Change time to: W 04: 15-06:45 
Change day to: F 07:00-10:00 p.m. 
Change time to: W 04:15-06:45 
Change time to: MWF 03:25-04: 15 
Change restriction to: "First year MBA students only" 
Change time to: W 04:15-06:45 Remove Permission Required-open to all M.Div students 

D.A.R.T. 
GOVT 640-01 #3728 ­liPS 506-0 I # 1206 ­liPS 640-0 I #400 I ­MATH 362-01 #2411 ­MBA 562-01 #0408 ·­SOC 640-0 I #3967 ­THEO 587-01 #4207 ­COURSES CANCELLED Arst 476S-OI #3489 Coaj 222-01 #4337 Coaj 332-0 I #3515 Ee 464-0 I #2898 Engl412C-Ol #3614 Engl461Z-OI #3625 GOVT 492B-OI #3707 GSC 412C-OI #3744 SOC 276-0 I #3948 
The king took a 10-minute stroll from the helicopter pad to the nearby Beit Gavriel cultural center on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, where the Bible says Jesus walked on the water. 
He shook hands with an Is­raeli army officer and students in a crowd of several hundred that gathered to see him. He also stopped to kiss a baby girL 
It was Hussein's first public visit to a country he has often visited secretly. He is the only Arab leader besides the late Egyptian president, Anwar Sa­dat, to openly visit the Jewish state. 
U.S. Embassy workers killed during ·roblJery 
By CHRIS TORCHIA 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE Two Haitian employees of the 
U.S. Embassy were shot and killed during a robbery Thurs­day, and a third employee was critically wounded, U.S. authorities said. 
The employees were accosted before noon while driving to a bank in the capital to pick up 110 pay packets for embassy staff, according to an embassy statement. 

~J-IONEYBAKED0 
-HOLIDAY HELP WANTED-
We're offering people opportunity to earn some extra cash over the holidays. We have over 100 openings in retail sails and food preparation. These positions require no pre~ vious experience, and are available at our 3 Indiana Stores. To learn more about these openings, stop by for an appilcation, or call: 
~ Ft. Wayne~Covington Plaza 6410 W. Jefferson (219)436~8998 

~ Indianapolis~Glenlake Plaza 2431 E. 65th Street (317)253~8700 
~ Indianapolis~Southport Centre 7319 US 31 South (317)889~4141 

COMEDY MOVIE 

A Haitian citizen witnessed the employees "in trouble" and called U.S. authorities. 
Military police rushed to the scene but the two employees had been slain, the embassy said. 
"All indications are that this was a criminal act, an armed robbery with no politicai moti­vation whatsoever," it said. 
Slain were Kesnel Jean-Paul and Sandra Rigaud, both in their mid-20s. U.S. and Haitian authorities were searching for a suspect, the embassy said. 
Mon., Nov. 7 

7:47 pm A BreEm-Phillips resident reported receiving a harassing phone call. 
11 :05 pm A Pangborn Hall resident and a Howard Hall msident reported the theft of money and clothing from the racquetball courts at the JACC 
Tues., Nov. 8 

1:19 pm A visitor -reported the theft of his cellular phone from his vehicle which was parked in the Morris Inn parking lot. 
7:06 pm A Lewis Hall resident re­ported receiving harassing phone calls. 
9:29 pm An off-campus student was transported by Security to the St. Joseph's Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
Wed. Nov. 9 

11:09 am A Flanner Hall resident re­ported the theft of cash and a credit card from his room. The room was unlocked at the time of the theft. 
2:45 pm A Lyons Hall resident re­ported receiving a harassing phone call. 



MARATHON 
Friday, November 11 
City Slickers Groundhog Day Weekend at Bernie•s Ill National Lampoon•s Loaded Weapon I Drop Dead Fred 
Carroll Auditorium $1.00 per movie 
_j 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, November 11, 1994 
'Sister Patty' fills multiple roles of rector, advisor, friend 
By MYRNA MALONEY "Upon my return to Saint Assistant Saint Mary's Editor Mary's four and a half years ago, I worked in the Congrega­After waking at dawn, she tion of the Sisters of the Holy leads an 8:15 a.m. prayer ser­Cross membership office in vice three days per week for Bertrand Hall. There, I met those students who wish to at­with people who were inter­tend, accompanies them to the ested in joining the religious life dining hall for breakfast, and and shared with them what then returns to her apartment that life is like in today's in the basement of Le Mans Church. It was basically a pro­Hall. cess to discern whether God 
Throughout the rest of the was calling them," Riley said. morning she welcomes students "It was during my second who seek her advice -to solve year here that the Sisters asked problems or just to be a good me to move into Le Mans Hall listener and confidante. to serve as sister in-Residence," 
Her afternoons might include she continued. various student appointments, Homesickness, roommate dif­planning residence hall section ficulties, and academic stress events, to which she is fre­are common topics Riley sees quently invited and which fill in the faces of those who come many of her evenings, and to her. In addition, she meets preparing for retreats. regularly with residence advi­
This, for the past year and a sors and hall directors in an half, has been what constitutes ongoing attempt to enhance the a typical day in the life of Sister college experience for all stu­Patricia Riley, sister in-resi­dents. dence at Saint Mary's. "Students come to me for 
David Mamet, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of "Glengarry Glen Ross," ''The Verdict," "The Untou(hables," and "Speed -the-Plow," is ba(k with what has be(ome the most talked about 
-and argued about -play of the year. Now you (an take a seat -and take a side • at 
"A riveting report from the war zone between genders. See OLEANNA!" 
-Jack Kroll, Newsweek 

Wednesday, November 16 
7:30 p.m. O'Loughlin Auditorium For Tickets Call 219/284-4626 
Youth 

In Asia 

Tokyo $845* Taipei $839* Seoul $819* Hong Kong $849* Bangkok $935* Kathmandu $1599* 

Council Travel 
1153 H. Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 
(312) 951-0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 
many reasons -sometimes just to talk. The part I play is pretty much that of a listener. I like to be available at all times for any student, and I have even learned to distinguish the ur­gency of one type of situation from another just from the knock on my door... especially the ones at 11 p.m.!" Riley said. 
"I love working as sister in­residence because I get the ex­citement of sharing in young people's lives and seeing the growth that takes place in the years students spend here. If I had one piece of advice for stu­dents, it would be for them to be patient with themselves be­cause a lot will happen, but they have to give it time. Whether it's educational devel­opment or spiritual develop­ment, results don't happen immediately but rather over a long-term period," Riley said. 

Riley was raised in a North­ern California farming town with a population of 2,000, at­tended the elementary school there run by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and recalled her memories of the Sisters as "...very human. They were con­stantly reaching out to the peo­ple of the town." 
After graduating from a pub­lic high school, she entered the Congregation and studied at Saint Mary's. After receiving her vows, Riley returned west and became involved in ele­mentary education for 25 years. She spent ten of those as a teacher and the latter 15 as a principal in three different schools. 
She also worked in a parish without a priest in Utah, orga­nized various retreats, and spent time with young adults. 
"I love young people and have always found working with them to be rewarding. There's never an end to the variety! The Sisters of the Holy Cross have played such a huge role in the success of Saint Mary's, and I like to be a part of that and want to see that tradition con­tinue. I'm grateful that I have had the opportunity to meet and work with so many won­derful people in my life and have had so many different ex­periences," Riley said. 

MAXIMIZING ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE IN GRADUATE SCHOOL A Workshop Using the Insights of Sports Psychology to Help you Achieve Your best performance 
This workshop will focus on techniques for: 
*enhancing/ maintaining concentration 
* 
how to manage/juggle numerous demands on your time 

* 
handling performance anxiety in writing papers, making presentations, and taking comprehensive finals 

* 
dealing with academic setbacks 

* 
improving confidence in your study strategy 

* 
improving your ability to pace yourself in your academic studies *focus your energy more quickly 


Presentation by: 
Dr. Dominic Vachon, Ph.D.  
DATE:  Sunday, November13, 1994  
TIME:  4:00p.m.-5:15p.m.  
AT:  Fischer O'Hara/Grace Community Center  

Sponsored By: 

The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer O'Hara/Grace University Village Graduate Student Union 
Refreshments will be provided! 


MCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCA MCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCA 
. . : . : . Sdaars and More 
,.· J'1.. 1.... '$.' '1.. J·.. g=·
.1·· 1·'I.. I.. 
: . . .. . : 
.. . .. . . ... ;·
MCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCA




$1111 In 
MCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCA 
PULPFICTION 
THE NOTION PICTUIE SOUNDTI.ACK 
MCAMCAMCAMCAMCAMCA 
lelectlln semce 
Pillars T-Shlns 
Lyle Lovett 
I Love Everybody 


CURB. 
MeA. 

Friday, November 11, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
University receives grants in support of resea1·ch 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $2,072,560 in grants during September for the sup­port of research and various programs. Research funds to­taled $1,158,381, including 
• 
$175,641 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Scott Bridgham, as­sistant professor of biological sciences, on climate change on boreal peatlands 

• 
$120,209 from the Envi­ronmental Protection Agency on the interactions of zebra mussels and rusty crayfish by Gary Lamberti, assistant pro­fessor of biological sciences; David Lodge, associate profes­sor of biological· sciences; and others 

• 
$120,000 from the US De­partment of Agriculture for re­search by Jeffrey Feder, assis­tant professor of biological sci­ences, on the genetics of rhago­letis. 

• 
$99,402 from Utah State University for research on se­


queueing batch biofilm reactor engineering using fungi by Robert Irvine, professor of civil engineering and biological sci­ences and director of the Cen­ter for Bioengineering and Pollution Control; and James Earley, assistant faculty fellow in civil engineering 
• 
$77,850 from Rutgers Uni­versity for research on energy analysis and diagnostics by John Lucey, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering; William Berry, professor of electrical engineer­ing; and others 

• 
$72,674 form the US De­partment of Energy for re­search by Robert Schuler, di­rector of the Radiation Labora­tory and Zahm professor of ra­diation chemistry, on radia­tion's effects on matter. 

• 
$68,348 from the National Science Foundation for collabo­rative research by David Lodge, associate professor of biological sciences, on herbivory and plant resistance 


• $60,250 from the National 



~TO~{f'QP
~ :'{ We're the holiday diacount otore '1"0
'\0 opecialwng in overatoclu, cloaaout. and ~(:"d.iiC4ntinued-many ofthem name branda. We're locally operated and we're here from now unt.il Chrj.tmaa only. 
GREAT PRICES ON NAME BRAND TOYS INCLUDING: Fisher Price, Binney & Smith, Mattei, Hasbro, Playskool, Kenner, Darda and morel 
Science Foundation for re­search by Anthony Michel, McCloskey dean of the College of Engineering and Friemann professor of electrical engineer­ing, on robust stability in power systems 
• 
$60,000 from the National Science Foundation for techni­cian support for the inductively coupled plasma mass spec­trometry research facility 

•$50,000 
from the US Insti­tute of research by Raimo Varynen, Regan director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and professor of government and international studies, on conflict resolution and peace prospects in south­east Europe. 

• 
$46,000 from the National Science Foundation for a grad­uate research fellowship pro­gram administered by Peter Diffley, associate dean in the graduate school. 

• 
$31,824 from Purdue Uni­versity for research by Paul McGinn, associate professor of chemical engineering, on pro­


cessing of textured supercon­ducting microlaminates 
• 
$30,000 from the National Endowment of the Humanities for research Michael Detlefsen, professor of philosophy, on con­structive philosophies of mathe­matics 

• 
$30,000 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Paula Higgins, associate professor of music, on Fanny Mendelssohn Hensel. 

• 
$30,000 from the National Endowment of the Humanities for research by Susan Youens, associate professor of music, on Franz Schubert and his poets 

• 
$2"2,212 from the National Institutes of Health for research on the molecular basis of lactofferin-protein interactions by Douglas McAbee, assistant professor of biological sciences; and Maheshwar Sitaram, a graduate student 

• 
$22,000 from the National Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration for research by Richard Carlton, assistant pro­fessor of biological sciences on 


The Deparbnent of Music Presents 


Professor 
Wi[fia'! Cerng 
?1ie Sonata: .Yt Centu'!J .Ytpart 
worksb!J <Beethol?en, {{al?el and <Berg 
Sunday, November 13, 1994 2:00p.m. Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum ofArt 
The concert is 


Okay, you've been at N.D. for two months and realized that the weekends here seem to be getting extremely mundane. In English: 
You have discovered that either you drink or study! Well, not anymore if you join 
The great new group that is dedicated to providing non.-lame, fun activities (or those not involving alcoholic beverages) for the Notre Dame community. We haven't been around very long, but already we are one of the fastest growing student groups on campus. Why? Because we provide activities students want! 
methane cycling and release from sediments 
• 
$15,000 from Purdue Uni­versity for research by David Lodge, associate professor of biological sciences, on preda­tion in zebra mussels 

• 
$ 10,949 from Brookhaven National Laboratories for re­search at the Brookhaven Mul­tiparticle Spectrometer by John LoSecco and Neal Cason, pro­fessors of physics, and other people 

• 
$5,000 from ACS Petroleum Research Fund for synthesis and study of photoresponsive receptors and catalysts by Bradley Smith, assistant pro­fessor of chemistry and bio­chemistry 

• 
$5,000 from Intel Corp. for research by Robert Stevenson, assistant professor of electrical engineering, on enhancement of compressed images 

• 
$3662 from the US-Poland Sklodowski-Curie Joint Fund for research by Umesh Garg, professor of physics, on exotic shaped of nuclei 

• 
$2,360 from the US De­partment of Agriculture for re­search by Gary Lamberti, assis­tant professor of biological sci­ences. 


Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $247,841, including 
• 
$213,859 for an ultrahigh­speed camera for research by James Mason and Joseph Pow­ers, assistant professors of aerospace and mechanical en­gineering, and others 

• 
$33,982 from the National Science Foundation for equip­ment and facilities for research in high energy physics by Neal Cason and John LoSecco, pro­fessor of physics, and others. 


Sound good so far? Here is how to get involved: Call Mary at 4...4904 or John at 4... I410 and we'll get you registered. 
We even have a little get..together planned during the Florida State game for anyone who wants to hang out with members of the ND and SMC community. We're talking wide screen TV! If that's not enough, we have refreshments too! This is better than SYR's! Why? Because you get to sit down and watch football with your mouth full and you don't have to pretend that you know how to dance (like 1do). 
Finally, and best of all, we plan our activities according to what you want to do! So if there is anything that you see happening at other colleges (like fun) that you would like to see here, join ::F~II-I!!III»::B and make it happen. Call us soon! 
_j 
-.~ ~------~--~-~~-~~­
,-----.. -_..,.........;-_-----....---~----------------------------­
I I I It I o 'I • I o' • 0 I I I o I I I I. 
0

• tot ' t • • If Itt I 
page 8 

Middle 
continued from page 1 

An increase from last year in the number of upperclassmen living on campus may have also affected the male housing crunch. Since the University assigns freshmen housing only after the upperclassmen lottery has been conducted, the space available for freshmen varies every year. In addition, accord­ing to University policy, fresh­men must live with other fresh­men. Even if there was space for a student in a room of sophomores, juniors, or se­niors, a freshman would not be able to move into the room. 
"This University does its best to house everybody it can on this campus. But freshmen must live together. You can't 

Steinfels 
continued from page 1 

fully report the entire issue. The media have been inadequate in reporting instances offal<ie accusa­tions of clergymen, and often relies on rumors and unproven allega­tions when reporting about sexual abuse. Also, the media fail to report on the efforts of the church to seek therapy for accused priests and other efforts taken to amelio­rate the situation 
Also contributing to the poor media coverage of Catholicism is the poor attitude of the church concerning the manner it is portrayed by the press, he said. 
Adding to the problem lies "in the structures of the church, where there is a dam­age control mentality in rela­tion to the press." 
Instead of engaging charges of Catholic-bashing, the church should "engage in well-documented criticism of media biases, and should work to see that its positive stories receive increasing media cov­erage, he said. 
just put them anywhere," Can­non said. 
Historically, the tower study lounges have been the sources of any extra dorm space. 
However, even though the tower study lounges were con­structed for the dual purposes of study space and residential use, the actual conversion of the study lounges into dorm rooms has incurred penalties on some dorm residents. Not only do returning Flanner and Grace students lack quiet study areas, but the lounge residents are faced with an awkward room location and more noise than other rooms. 
"For the upperclassmen who have lived here before, they have lost their dorm study space," said Seetch. "(The Flanner) downstairs study lounge has always been crowd-
south Bend/s oakwood villas 
• 
single-family homes -villa concept 

• 
association landscaping & snow removal 

• 
6 models; 1200 to 1900 square feet, or more 

• 
minutes from Notre Dame & StMary's 

• 
minutes from Blackthorn Golf Course 

• 
quick access to the Toll Road and shopping 

• 
Miller Builders -quality homes 



Oakwood Villas 2903 Corpus Christi Dr South Bend, IN 46628
OAKWOOD 
VILLAS (219) 277-0337 
The Observer • NEWS 
ed, so I notice more students going to the library." 
According to Father Terence Linton, the Grace Hall rector, the Grace staff avoided this problem by converting part of the basement into a study lounge. 
"I have not seen anything out of the ordinary in this respect," said Linton. 
Both rectors, however, ob­served that the study lounge rooms do not fit naturally into sections. The study lounge rooms on each floor are located near the elevators and the stairwells and in the hallway which connects the two sec­tions. 
"It's not so much cramped as it is awkward. What section do these residents belong to?" Seetch said. 
"Our sections have always been very well-defined. The 

Join us to discuss 




TRUE SUCCESS 
&THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT 
With 

PROF. THOMAS MORRIS 
Of the Department of Philosophy 
Monday, November 14 
7:30pm 
Keenan Hall Kommons 
Refreshments will be serve~~ 
Friday, November II, I994 
study lounge residents seem to waver between the two sections on each floor," agreed Linton. 
In order to integrate the study lounge freshmen, the res­ident assistants on each floor have made conscious efforts to include the study lounge resi­dents in one section or another, according to Seetch and Linton. 
Other problems unique to the study lounge rooin have also confronted the Grace and Flan­ner staffs and residents. Win­dows frame the single door which leads into the room, and the lounges do not contain indi­vidual controls for the heat or air conditioning. Study lounge residents also encounter more noise than normal tower resi­dents. 
"We really like the room, but we can hear everything above and below us. We can even hear when someone turns on a radio," said David Fantz, a Grace freshman. "The noise is really a big problem." 
Shawn Nigg of Flanner agreed. 
"We really love the great big window that we have, but you can hear other people through the vents very easily," said Nigg. "Also, since it's one room, there's really no way to sepa­rate it (into social and study space)." 
Over the past three months, however, the study lounge res­idents seem to have adjusted to their unusual dwellings. 
"The good thing is that we have some room here, and it's bigger than the other rooms," said Flanner freshman John Polhemus. 
"We're pretty much like all the other rooms," agreed Nigg. 
SOPHOMORES!!! Get Involved: 
Sign up to be a member of the Sophomore Committee for this year's JPW!!! Sign up at LaFortune Info desk or call Regis at x2695. 
Deadline Fri., Nov. 11 


INVITES YOU TO ATIEND A PRESENTATION ON 
''How To PREPARE FOR THE CPA EXAM' AND CURRENT EVENTS 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994 UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER SaRIN RooM 

5:30P.M. 
(PIZZA AND POP WILL BE SERVED) -
DRAWING FOR A FREE CROSS PEN AND PENCIL SET. SPECIAL COLLEGE STUDENT DISCOUNT AVAILABLE TO ALL ATIENDING. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL: 277-4366 


VIEWPOINT 
Friday, November 11, 1994 page9 
THE OBSERVER NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 1994-95 General Board Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Bwiness Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ....•................... Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objc:crively as possible. Unsigned ecli­rorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Generallnfonnation 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu  
 

• EDITORIAL 
A hope for 
•


meaning ... 
One year ago this weekend our grieving began. In light of the events of the past week and the many emotions we have experienced, it is now time to examine what exactly the death of Mara Fox and the acquittal of John Rita mean to us as members of a community and a family. We must not let Mara Fox's death be meaningless. 
The undercurrent of emotions rising from per­ceived moral injustice cannot be allowed to over­shadow Mara Fox's life. We must look past the verdict and try to fmd tangible meaning in this tragedy that is Mara's death. We owe this to Mara, to her family, to her friends and to ourselves. 
When trying to come up with some profound rea­son that explains her death, frustration emerges long before revelation. Right now. we're not so sure what impact the loss of Mara's life will have on us, but as we progress into the future, and look back, Mara's impact and presence will be tangible. 
In finding meaning, we make our anger or sad­ness or whatever emotion productive. Finding meaning is a gradual merger of our own personal identity with a communal experience-it is not an immediate occurrence. It is not trite to say that Mara was sacrificed for a greater good, for this is the essence of why we have faith that a greater, more benevolent order will emerge. The profound pain Mara's family and friends experience every day is virtually unimaginable to most who did not know her, yet all of us feel loss and will be forever changed by her brief presence with us. It is our obligation as her classmates, friends, teachers and mentors to muster the courage to face our frustra­tion in fmding purpose and meaning. 
We cannot give you a map for fmding these 
answers. Though it is a different, uncharted jour­
ney for each of us, we can have comfort in knowing 
that we are not alone in our search for meaning. 
Moreover, we can have solace in realizing that 
years from now when we look back upon our Notre 
Dame encounter, we will see how the passing of 
Mara's life has changed our own destinies. 
Until tragedy occurs, it is very hard to convince anyone that they are mortal and fallible. We have such a sense that these things do not happen to these kinds of people. The reality of the situation is quite the opposite. Mara Fox is like us. John Rita is like us. Simply knowing that "it could happen to you" is just not enough. 
• DISPElliNG MYTHS 
Election '94: Pork 1, Democracy 0 
In Tuesday's election, the intrusion. The solution to our mod­manner in which it deems proper, American people once again mani-ern problem is a modern day revolu­rather than allowing us to spend fested their discontent with the tion, based upon the same values how we chose. They make decisions United States political system by vot-and principles articulated in the for us, implying that we cannot ing the controlling party out of American Revolution. This is an make such decisions on our own. power. Faith in "the system" is said admittedly bizarre argument, but This treatment amount to paternal­to be at an all time low, and consider the following historical par­ism, which is defined as excessive Americans continue to wonder what allels between then and now. governmental supervision. is going wrong in the political arena. The American Revolution was Paradoxically, I believe that a pre­The fundamental problem with poli-premised upon destruction-the requisite to the abolition of paternal­tics, as I see it, is that pork barrel-destruction of a tyrannical system of ism will be the emergence of more ing has created an intrusively large governance; the colonists desired the paternalism. Things \vill get worse government, funded by excessive Revolution more for what it would before they get better. The average taxation. destroy, than for person will not fight against the exis­
The size and what it would tence of our large, paternalistic gov­power of gov-create. The ernment until its actions have ernment has Revolution was, become prohibitive to them-for been constantly first and fore-they have too much to lose by fight­increasing as a most, a protest ing against big government (i.e., they would have to give up benefits they 
OJ 

result of against intrusive

pork Sarafa 
barrel politics, in state intervention individually receive and those their which each by the King· of constituency receives). The "revolu­representative Britain: excessive tion" against paternalism will even­and senator is -----========----taxation, the tually emerge with the election of a 
implicitly entitled to their own pro-obstruction of justice, and the erec­radical libertarian style president ject if they play by the rules of the tion of an inordinate number of such as Ross Perot. This is not to game. This translates into the ere-offices, to name a few. The say that Perot is the person for the ation of an inordinate number of Revolution sought to case aside job, or even that the country is ready projects created to satisfy voting unjust and paternalistic authority, for this move; rather, it is to say that constituencies and which are very and to replace it with a government people will eventually become so dis­difficult to eliminate; nobody wins that would "derive it just power satisfied with modern politics that votes by taking money or projects from the consent of the governed." they will select an independent, anti­out of their constituency. Over the Our country is currently faced with political president that will make years these government projects or similar problems. Taxes are at changes such as simplifying the tax programs simply pile up and our extraordinarily high levels and are code to one page rather than one government paternalistically contin-taken from several areas of our million, or that will reduce the size ues to push its way into our lives. lives. Our paychecks have state of government by one half. Such paternalism is displayed by the income tax, federal income tax, and The American colonists revolted increase in regulatory actions, social FICA tax deducted from them. against the British only after suffer­programs, and monitoring by our Personal income tax ranges from ing from a great amount of repres­government. If this paternalism approximately 10% to 40% of one's sion and paternalism. If we allow continues to grow it will be the income. We also pay sales, sin, capi­politics to continue to increase the impetus for sweeping change in our tal gains, and luxury taxes, some of size and power of government, we political system. which have been on the rise. The will suffer from the same experience 
As a result of the growth in gov-revenue accrued from these taxes, the colonists did. Inevitably, as a 
ernment, our system has become a for the most part, funds government result of tyrannical paternalism, we 
perversion of the system created by programs that are unnecessary, or will once again engage in revolution 
our Founding Fathers. The post-that can be more effectively done by to free ourselves and reassert the 
revolutionary American liberalism the private or nonprofit sectors; such radical individualism upon which 
allowed one to live a sublimely indi-as prison detention, and social and this country was built. 
vidualistic life, basically unadulterat-welfare services, respectively. The DJ Sarafa is a first year law stu­
ed and free from governmental government spends out money in the dent at Notre Dame Law School. 
• DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
ZONK, I 60TTA 60IN70 TOWN. IU f3t f3ACI< IN / ANHOUR.  OH, RIGHT. WHO IXJYOUWANT TO von< fOR:(  FOR f3t'3T N/3WBAN//. OH,WAIT, 7HGY'R&NOT  
JJMa<JCAN". \  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Even memory is not neces­
sary for love. There is a land of the living and a land of the dead and the bridge is love, the only survival, the only meaning." 
-Thornton Wilder 

The Bridge ofSan Luis Rey 
page 10 Friday, November 11, 1994 



VIEWPOINT 
• BEYOND fREEDOM RocK 

Build the future, skip dessert 
• ~(j_ 1w Hints for the masses,· PDA victims Dear Editor: Regarding "PDA: Get a Room," the Fresh Thoughts column on November 7. you were quite right when you ·thought to yourself, "Dave this is none of your busi­ness." Maybe you ought to consider the seminary if such scenes nauseate you. Besides, if It nauseated you so much, why did you find it so necessary and irresistible to stare at,the couple? If you are in the library to study. then study. The couple could not have been making that much noise considering they kept their clothes on!  
' Here's a little hint: either join the crowd and quit wasting paper, join the semi­nary, or transfer to the Catholic School for the Blind!'  
As for infringing on your study time ... please. It could have just as easily been some anxiety-ridden f'reshman tap­ping his pencil for hours straight. Would such a pencil tapper then become the object of an editorial? . Here's a little hint: either join the crowd and quit wast­ing paper, join the seminary, or transfer to the Catholic School for the Blind! KEITH BERG Senior Alumni Hall  


Would you give up your dessert was, under the terms of dessert to feed a hungry child? the contract, largely irrelevant. 
Well, sure, if someone stands According to some vocal stu­there in front of me and asks. dents, however, whether or not But would I do it on my own? ARA Food Services was willing 
That was the question a to go along with the gesture group of activists placed before was also largely irrelevant. the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's It was unfair, several letters Community back in 1969. Do to The Observer insisted, for you think Alex Keaton was born students to be publicly con­when "Family Ties" went on fronted with a choice between the air in 1982? Nonsense. We poverty-stricken toddlers and were just as diverse, just as those wonderful crappy pud­selfish, just as concerned with dings with the dried-up skin on our own personal rights, back the top. In front of your friends, in the idealistic ol' Sixties. what are you going to say, "To 
The idea-=============== hell with 
was that-the kid, students gimme my would sign Pete pudding?" 
away their And yet, desserts, after all, I was talking the other day to you'll find plenty who became 
a friend who was a few years active in community-based
and isn't that
the Peterson 
too young to really claim citi­social movements, either full­s a v e d dom is all m o n e y what free­
zenship in the Woodstock time or as part of their personal would be about? The Nation, but who was old dedication to making this world enough to know that, just as a better place.
donated to ------========-----freedom to 
today's college students (except But I promise you, it was no Bend Breakfast Program, so underprivileged children in the 
a South blow off 
at Notre Dame, of course) have larger a number than come that little kids could have a name or empty, self-indulgent their LUGs (Lesbians Until from your own ranks. I've met meal before school. calories? 
Graduation), so too, we had our enough people from the current Hard to argue with that. After It was coercion, several Notre 
HUGs-Hippies Until college crop to know that there all, the desserts at college suck Dame students protested. And a Graduation. are plenty of people who want anyway. Besides. part of build-Saint Mary's writer pointed out, It was very important to come to help the poor, to leave this ing a new society is making with prim logic, that they 
across as an idealistic icono­planet better than they found it, sure everyone gets a crack at weren't going to really save any 
clast, in them thar days. But to try to make life more the gold ring. You can't learn if money after all because the stu­let's face it, most people don't endurable for the less fortu­your belly is growling. So trade dents who weren't going to really give a damn about any­nate. in a lousy pudding for the have any dessert would simply 
body but themselves, and they Enough, certainly, that there future of a needy child. be eating more of the other 
certainly didn't expect to live in is no practical reason why I Yeah, right. Gimme a break. food offered at the meal. So some dirty little hovel after shouldn't just grab myself a Of course, the program was there wouldn't really be a sav­graduation so they could dessert in the dinner line. In popular, and some 2,000 stu-ings to the food service, would 
improve the lives of nasty peo­fact, I think I'll grab two, dents signed up right away to there? Well, would there? 
ple who don't even speak because there's probably some donate their desserts to the It's easy to be snide about to­English properly or dress right. self-righteous prig who isn't breakfast program. That num-day's young people and to say 
Well, yeah, some people did. having dessert at all. ber later swelled to 3,070. With that we in the older generation 
Some people went into store­Anyway, I've earned an extra those numbers. organizers es-were more generous, more ide­front law or social work or just pudding. I worked very hard to­timated that they could provide alistic, more concerned with lived these abysmal, depressing day, and anyway, if I don't eat 
a healthy, nutritious breakfast helping other people. But I 
lives with abysmal, depressing an extra pudding, I'd probably to about 600 local youngsters. think it's important to note that 
people. Yuck-0! just eat more vegetables so why But it wasn't that simple, ac-we certainly had our share of And there were certainly not, right? Why don't you have cording to the administrations horse's rear ends in our day those who managed to live mid­one, too? of each school. Food service too, despite the way we ignored 
dle class lives while doing good Pete Peterson. '71, is was provided by contract, and them and insisted that society 
things to improve the society in Readership Services Manager whether or not the students ate try to improve things. which we live. You talk to at the Press-Republican in 
Domers from that period, and Plattsburgh, NY. 

• CAPITOL CoMMENTS 



Irish academics rolling over athletics in polls 
Notre Dame today is approaching the point that the Democrats were at on election day. The Irish personae among many other universities and the voting sportswriters is not quite where it should be, regardless of this season's below average record. Several factors cause Notre Dame image problems not unlike those of the Congressional Democrats prior to the recent Republican election landslide. 
Academically, The University of Notre Dame is ranked among the elite in the country. However, for the past three years, the university's academic ranking in the U.S. News and World Reports top twenty-five colleges was its lowest cate­gory. The trouble with that category is that it is based on the opinions of other colleges' deans, administrators, and ad­mission staffs. This year, while Notre Dame rated nineteenth overall, the Irish rated lowest of any in the top twenty­five in this category. 
Last year the football team should have been named the national champion by virtue of the head-to-head contest with Florida State. However, the sports­writers voted Notre Dame number two when the final votes had been counted. One writer in Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania (home of Joe Namath) loathes Notre Dame and voted them not one, two, three, or even possibly fourth as the last reasonable position ... but number six! Argue that Auburn, while on probation, was still a better team. Argue that Florida State was better but had an off­day in South Bend. But sixth? 
Turn next to the NCAA administrative committees which are composed of member schools. Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce were both active partici­pants of many committees. Yet the image of the Irish being holier than thou often times killed many measures that were initiated by the university during 
Gary Caruso 


their tenure. It was better to have another school recommend a rule change and have Notre Dame quietly vote for it. 
This past September when Michigan beat ND with a last second field goal, sportscasters and writers attending the Pitt game in Pittsburgh were watching those final seconds on monitors. They took time out of their reporting to watch a great finish, regardless of who tri­umphed. However, when the ball split the uprights, the sportswriters burst into a great cheer (not for old Notre Dame). So much for the unbiased voting struc­ture of the polls. 
Maybe the NBC contract is not quite as large an.issue today as it was during its first few years. But the recent renewal brought it into the public's eye again. How many schools can command such a contract? None to date. Obviously, jeal­ousy definitely exists throughout college football land. 
Speaking of jealousy, how about that Sugar Bowl against Florida? Remember the one that Cheerios belonged in, but Notre Dame did not? Ignore the fact that The Irish beat Florida. Also ignore the fact that Notre Dame games draw a viewing audience like professional teams do every football week of every football year. The holier than thou team jumped above other teams with fewer losses to attend the Sugar Bowl. At least that is the impression beyond the bor­ders of South Bend. 
So there you have it. I have just laid out conditions that make Notre Dame in the football community the same as Democrats in the political arena. After all, Democrats had both houses of Congress as well as the White House. They Jet their ranks vote against their proposals. They let that division fuel a Republican, partisan stand on many issues, thus failing a majority of votes. Furthermore, they let the Republicans define them in the campaign as immoral, big spenders, typical taxers, and ineffective. 
The Republicans nationalized their themes in their "Contract With America" a few weeks ago. They pledged to do certain things during their first one hun­dred days as the majority or the American public can kick them out. This gimmick put popular issues on a table without much explanation. The voters bought it, but now the Hepublicans must produce. 
I believe that the Democrats got a bad rap just like Notre Dame gets. I further predict that most of the Hepublican efforts will backfire eventually. Maybe it will take four or six years, but watch how their simple rhetoric deals with complex issues. Most importantly, hope that other universities do not take a page out of the Republican playbook. They just may muster enough sympathy among themselves to mount an effort against the Irish. I can see the forces coming from those who cannot have TV contracts, cannot bump others in the bowls because of their national follow­ing, or those who cannot crack the top twenty-five poll, let alone sit atop it all at number one. 
Watch out Irish! If Liberty University ever turns from politics to organize a football following, you may become the Democrats of the college polls and never again crack the top twenty-five. 
Gary J. Caruso, '73, is working in a Congressional Campaign during this election cycle. His column appears every other Friday. 
r.. 
Friday, November 11, 1994 The Observer•WEEKEND page 11 





Of Dads and Daughters 
BY LESLIE FIELD 
Accent Writer 
Many Saint Mary's Seniors will expe­rience a touch of nostalgia this week­end as their fathers come from around the world to share a very special and potentially humorous weekend with their daughters during Senior Dad's Weekend. 
This is a time that has always been looked forward to by students as a senior highlight It is no wonder why. Imagine the look on 1994 Saint Mary's graduate Nellie Sanford's face when she saw her Dad, Jack, jamming' to those hot sounds at the Linebacker. 
1993 graduate Lisa Luedecking will never forget the look on her mother's face when her dad, Bob, decided to go along with all the other dads and relive his own senior year of college at The Commons on Saturday night They still talk about it, but that is no surprise considering the great efforts put into this weekend by both the Senior Class Board and the students. 
Allison Obuchowski, Chairperson of Senior Dad's Weekend, has been work­ing diligently with her committee since May of last year to ensure that this weekend is as rewarding for the Class of '95 as it has been for classes in the past 
"I hope it is as much fun for everyone else as it has been for me," Obuchowski said. 
With a theme like "You Are My Sunshine," it undoubtedly will be. The committee has planned a number of activities for the dads and daughters to attend together. They can head over to Angela Athletic Facility on Friday night from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. for the ever pop­ular Casino Night Here, a dessert bar as well as an open bar, will be available while students and friends tend to the gambling tables, blackjack being the most sought after. 
If all goes well, daughters and dads can pick up their prizes later. In past years, the prizes from Casino Night have ranged from televisions (a hot item for all dads as long as it comes complete with a remote control,) to huge bottles of mouthwash. 
On Saturday, the committee has planned "Party With Your Plaid Dad" at the 100 Center to watch the Notre Dame/Florida State football game. Saturday night, Clarissa Dalloway's Coffee House is open to those who opt to stay away from the South Bend bar scene. 
For many, however, Saturday night will be a time when all of those hard working dads will get a chance to see where a pretty heavy chunk of their tu­ition money is really going: the bars. From the Linebacker to Corby's to Coach's, you can be sure to see a lot of dads out with their daughters in a fash­ion that is bound to make some moth­ers pretty nervous. 
Senior Katie Morland's dad, Tim, is coming in from North Carolina. Katie wants to make sure that he gets a good feel for the campus life at Saint Mary's. "I want him to meet all of my friends and see where we hang out." 
Laura Longo's Dad, Charles, is com­ing in from Dubuque, Iowa to join in on Casino Night as well as Party with the Plaid. Longo is taking her father to the Carriage House for dinner. ''I'm looking forward to spending time with him because it is one of my last weekends with him in my senior year." 
Kara Manion's dad, David, is coming in from Belgium for the weekend. Manion is excited that he is making the long trip. 
Jennifer Nicola's parents. Judie and Norm, are coming in for the weekend from Canton, Ohio. It will be an extra special weekend for the three of them because Nicola is getting married in June. 
''I'm looking forward to everything, to be able to sit down and talk to my par­ents when we don't have to worry about the phone bill," Jennifer said. "That will be great." 
After all the craziness of Friday and Saturday night, a mass will be held for the dads and daughters on Sunday in the Church of Loretto at 9 a.m. This is a weekend that should be a memorable one for all and one that will be looked forward to by many classes to come. 
ROTC to honor war veterans 
By LARRY WARD 
Accent Writer 
Across the country today Americans will celebrate Veteran's Day. Today Americans honor those valiant men and women who fought and died for our country. Moreover, this is the day that all Americans should warmly thank all of those living men and women who courageously defended our country. 
The University of Notre Dame will join with the rest of the country today in cel­ebrating Veteran's Day. The most visi­ble form of Notre Dame's celebration will be the ROTC Veteran's Day Retreat Ceremony. 
At 4 p.m. this afternoon, a mass for­mation of members of the Air Force, Army, and Navy ROTC units will con­verge at the South Quad Flag Pole to honor our nation's veterans. Together, ROTC students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Indiana University of South Bend will assemble to take down the flag in a ceremonial manner. 
To further honor the nation's veter­ans, all members of the University's ROTC units will be required to wear their uniforms all day today. 
The highlight of the ROTC Veteran's Day Retreat Ceremony will be Rear Admiral Larry R. Marsh. Rear Admiral Marsh, the Director of the Office of Program Appraisal in the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, will speak of the importance of Veteran's Day as well as the importance of the United States Armed Forces. 
The Retreat Ceremony was organized by the Cadet Joint Military Council. The Cadet Joint Military Council is com­posed of a representative from each armed service and a Commander from the Navy. Notre Dame is the only university in the nation with such an organization within their respective ROTC program. 
Nelanie Hamilton, Public Affairs Officer of the Cadet Joint Military Council, stated "The Cadet Joint Military Council believed that the ROTC Veteran's Day Retreat Ceremony would be a terrific opportunity for all Notre Dame family members to reflect on the courage displayed by those men and ­women who fought and died for our country." 
Hamilton encourages everyone to attend the event, which is expected to last approximately forty five minutes. 
If you are unable to attend the ROTC Veteran's Day Retreat Ceremony, be sure to remember those men and 
-
women who fought for your freedom. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 11, 1994 
really easy to be the goat. If I and with more experience I'm • HOCKEY
• 
RenoIa 

make a mistake, the ball goes able to make better decisions." into the back of the net. At And while game-winning
continued from page 20 

ND rallies to look past
other positions, that isn't nec­saves against top-10 teams may in Henola's game which has essarily true." be the most noticeable manifes­been the most important to the "But it's just as easy to get all tation of Renola's progress, she 

disappointing season
Irish. the praise. Against Portland has had some of her best per­
"Last year Jen made the everyone told me what a great formances in games of little 
By MICHAEL DAY The team's disappointing saves she was supposed to game I had, but I really only importance. 
Sports Writer start can be partly attributed to make," Petrucelli said. "This made one save-it just hap­
the tough competition in the year she's made the big saves, pened to be a great one." Against Midwestern 
Down, but not out. CCHA. The Irish lost a pair to the game-winners." For Petrucelli, though, it has Collegiate Conference opponent 
After losing five consecutive defending national champion
Renola's big saves include been Renola's great saves that Xavier, for example, Renola 
games, including being upset Lake Superior and suffered a stopping North Carolina all­have illustrated her great withstood a ten second flurry of twice by Illinois-Chicago last tough setback at the hands of American Tisha Venturini in a strides. three point-blank shots midway weekend, one would think op­No. 6 Bowling Green. 
one-on-one breakaway, helping "We knew that Jen would be through the first half, then timism would be running low "The teams we've played are preserve a 0-0 tie with the Tar a great keeper," Petrucelli said, saved another breakaway in 
on the Notre Dame hockey part of the reason," said Heels. A similar snub against "but she's come along faster the second period. 
team. Shafer. "We just need to be Portland's Shannon MacMillan, than we expected. Right now "I had one of my. best overall 
However, that is not the case, more opportunistic and take one of the most prolific scorers she's playing like a junior or games of the year against 
at least according to head advantage of our scoring op­in the country, lifted the Irish to senior." Xavier, when we won 7-1," 
coach Ric Shafer. portunities." 
a 2-1 win over the Pilots. Renola said. "But it kind of "We are still a good team,""Those saves were against Renola attributes that matu­goes unnoticed, because if I said Shafer. "We're just in a Ferris State, 2-3-1 overall great players and great teams," rity to experience she gained miss a couple saves we still win desperate need for a victory. with a 2-2 mark in CHHA play,Renola said, "and that's why I while playing for the Irish last 7-3." 
We've had a good week of visits South Bend for a gameremember them. Last year I season and for the under-20 No matter who the Irish are 
practice, and I know that if we tonight and one on Saturday.
didn't really play well in the big national team last summer. playing, though, there is no play to our capability, we'll be The Bulldogs are lead by 
games, and that's what people "I can't really pinpoint any goalkeeper Petrucelli would 
fine." senior right wing Tim remember." specific reason why I'm playing rather have in his corner. 
After starting the season Christian, who leads the team That recognition, according better this year, other than that "She's as good as any keeper 
strong with nonconference vic­with six goals and 11 points. 
to Renola, is indicative of some I have more experience," I've seen," he said. 
tories, the squad finds itself at Rich Nagy earns the startingof the pressures and peculiari­Renola said. "As a goalie, it's a And for Petrucelli, that's not 
the bottom of the CCHA stand­nod at goaltender and is 1-3 as ties of her position. constant decision-making pro­just good. 
ings heading into tonight's a starter with a 4.12 goals­
"Because of my position, it's cess and you just have to react, "She's awesome." 
game against Ferris State. against average. 



Women's basketball signs two recruits 
By K.C. GOYER Danielle Green have signed of players already part of "We're extremely pleased an asset to the team. Sports W ricer National Letters of Intent to try Muffet McGraw's team, that Sheila signed with us," In addition to McMillen, Notre Dame on for size. McMillen also boasts a First McGraw said, "She's a great Notre Dame signed Danielle 
Letitia Bowen has big feet, Team All-State selection, an three point shooter." Green, a 5'8" guard out of and when the only senior on Beyond the all time leading AAU National Championship, McGraw also cited McMillen's Chicago's Roosevelt High the women's basketball team scorer of her high school, con­South Bend Tribune Player of ball handling, driving to the School. She will bring versatili­graduates this year she'll leave ference all-star, and AAU the Year, and a listing onStreet basket, and ability to the con­ty as a player to the Irish next big shoes to fill. Luckily for the prominence achievements and Smith's Honorable Mention trol the tempo of a game as year, as a guard averaging 12.0 Irish, Sheila McMillen and which are typical of the caliber All Star team. skills that will make McMillen rebounds per game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  LOCAL CONSULTING FIRM SEEKS SALES/MKTG. ASST. FOR  UPSTAIRS APT., 3 LG. BR. , KITCHEN, BATHROOM. ALL UTIL­ I NEED 3 AF GAsl Sam X4872  $ HELP! Need Air Force GA's $ call x3882  Do you know  
94/95 SCHOOL YEAR.  ITIES INCLUDED. PRIVATE  Need 2 AIR FORCE GAs  Ask For Miss Debartolo  CHANDRA FORTNEY  
SCI-FI & FANTASY SATURDAY  FLEX. HAS.  PARKING & ENTRANCE, 4-5-6  Please call Curtis 282-2197  OR  
November 12th 1Q-6 233-2342  HOURLY WAGE & COMM.  STUDENTS OK. $500/MO. + $500  I NEED 2 AF GAs OR STUD TIXI  ERIK GOLDSCHMIDT?  
all sci-li pbk books SQ-75% off  GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO GAIN  DEPOSIT. CALL DOUG MILLIKEN  I NEED AF GA's  CALL LISA 272-6460  They're both celebrating birthdays  
Pandora's Books BOB Howard St  VALUABLE SALES EXP.  288-7319 ANYTIME, 15171/2  DAVE 634-1198  tomorrow -don't forget to calltheml  
(219) 256-9546.  LWW, NEXT DOOR TO VITO'S  
BARBER SHOP.  HELPII Need 2 GA's or stud tix lor  need 6 USC tix desperately  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS  ATTENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF­ Air Force call AMY 277-4612  call x4084 ask 4 pia  Muberty puberty looberty jajooberty  
10-6m-sat pandora's books NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat  MOTIVATED Students. The ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is  FOR SALE  Need two Air Force GAs Leslie 273­ blibliboplypu NUUUUUUUUUUU­UDE  
233-2342 cool stuff cool stora  currently interviewing students lor  9303  Need Ticketslll  
Summer '95 management posi­ EA HOCKEY lor IBM  4 Air Force GA's  
tions. Eam money in excess of  1994 players with trades, etc ...  Call Sean at 4-0602  YOU WILL BE VISITED BY THREE  
Anybody need a ride to St. Louis for  $10,000. Call now, 1-800-4n-1001  almost brand new, has all books  Need:  SPIRITS  
Thanksgiving? I'm leaving  lor a campus representative.  and the registration form.  Air Force GAs (2 or 4 together)  2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235-3394  
Wednesday (11/23) at 2pm. II inter­ best offer; call Tom at4-1712  call Marc at X3309 or X3300  
ested, call Alex at X3946.  4 FSU tix lor sale catherine x4308  Don't miss:  
HURRY! MGMT. POSITIONS  '93 Camero Z28, 6-speed,  AF, SO. CAL GA'S FOR SALE.  "The Mushroom Head Experience"  
,  USED BOOKS & CLIFPS NOTES  FILLING QUICKLY. T.A.S.P. INTERNATIONAL SEEKS  pw, pdl, abs, Clarion CD player, alarm, 10k miles  288-1186.  I NEED 1 AF STUD. TIX. MIKE  at St. Mary's Dalloway Coffee House, Saturday at 8:30pm. $1  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  MOTIVATED APPLICANTS.  never seen winter. $18,000.  -HELP­ 289-3203  admission.  
NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/1 0-6  EARN $8-10 THOUSAND  Cai14-1970  $$$ I NEED$$$  
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store  NEXT SUMMER RUNNING A  AIR FORCE GA'S  2 STUDENT AIR FORCE TIX  • KIWI •  
$40,000 BUSINESS. GREAT  CALL GARY 2n-9279  FOR SALE CALL X4054  FOOTBALL N0.58= HANDS OFFI  
WOLF  RESUME BUILDER. CONTACT  4 Sale Notebook 486 OX 33MHz  ( 15 yard penalty for offensive  
Fri/Sat 8,1030 Cushing Auditorium  MICHAEL WILLIS AT 1-80Q-543­ 240HD 8 mem 16 gray monitor with  2 FSU GA's. Jell -1-3906  have 2 Fla St. GA's  interference) -the ball handler  
- by SUB ILOST & FOUNDI  3792 OR X2040. AD SALESPERSON FOR COM­MUNITY NEWSPAPER IN  mouse and case $1200 also Desktop 386DX 33MHz 80MD 4mem with SVGA monitor, lax, modem, handscanner, and tape backup $500 cail272-1663  I need 2 Air Force GAs!! II Call Kevin@ 271-7284 FSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSU  call Jason at 272-4297 NEED air force tix:2studs & 2 GAs call shannon x4236  tupac, tupac. gargle the night. Quality Copies, QufckJyiiJ 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
LOST: set of keys on BUD LIGHT  MISHAWAKA. P-T. IDEAL FOR  One FSU ticket lor sale,  LaFortune Student Center  
key chain possibly at  INTERN WHO NEEDS GOOD  For Sale: Fender Strat-$300  Best Offer  I need Air Force GA's and Stud Tix.  Phone 631-COP  
KNOTTSYR  RESUME AND GOOD PAY. CALL  Call233-5130  Cali 232-8337  Please call Greg @ 1620  
CALL MIKE X3054  258-0121.  FSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSU  Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  
486 DX2-66, VESA, Pentium Upg,  Wanted: Air Force GA's. Close to  Sailing Cruiser Free brochure  
L-..-_w._J\_N_T_E_o_ ___..JI  L-I_F_o_R_RE_N_T_ __.  420m, 4m RAM, SVGA, 14.4Kb, Sftwr, under guarantee  NEED 2 Air Force GA's­Cali Mary Heather @ 4-2509.  campus. 271-9540, ask lor Bob.  1 (800)359-9808  
1450$ or b/o., 272-5674.  To the women of 334 Siegfried:  
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  Need A.F. Tix-stu or GAs  Thanks lor the invitation! Join us  
- TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK '951 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA,  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  FOR SALE-Tandy Dot Matrix Printer $60 call Amy x1480  Mark 289-6988  Its worth asking a second time ... TOAD THE WET SPROCKET TIX  lor a group beer sometime! Love,  
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE.  NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  I need 2 AF GA's.  Help me out -Regular price -Call  1012 Grace  
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ FOR SALE-Magnavox VideoWriter  Call X0718.  Brian x1058  
ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL  nJ-2034  Word Processor + 4 ribbon car­ a table. a label  
FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURS1­ tridges $100 call Amy x1480  •••••••••• PLEASE HELPt•••••••••  an egg carton, my eardrum.  
800-426-n10  WANTED: LAW/MBA/GRAD  I NEED 2 AIR FORCE TICKETS  $$$$Help. I need Air Force Tickets.  
STUDENT TO SHARE  FOR SALE: IBM compatible 486,  CALL CHRISSY x3098 -THANKS  Please call Gina at2n-0740.$$$  Happy 18th Zoe VanCott! DBS all  
FURNISHED APT FOR SPRING  w/color monitor, keyboard, mouse  the way baby. Luv SBF n Stine  
EARN INCOME  SEMESTER.  loaded with software-microsoft  
HAVE FUN MARKETING  CALL 273-6418 FOR MORE INFO.  ollice,windows,lotus, harvard  I NEED AF GA's  Needed: Two tickets lor AF game  
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY  graphics-$900 or best offer -X0640  Call Brian 4-1861  for my sister and her friend.  Does Tallahassee spell Orlando?  
PRODUCTS, HOLIDAY GIFT  Looking lor a male /female room­ Please call Roger at x0959.  
BASKETS. CALL ME TODAY,  mate at Castle Point.  1 way plane ticket to Boston lor  I need 2, 3 or 5 AF GAs  
START MAKING MONEY  $ 280/mo + ail utilities, with cable  Dec2o---best oller-JP@4013  Rob x1816  NEED 2 AirForce GA's KATE  Is there a rager on tenth floor  
TOMORROW -674-9634.  TV, until may of '95  x4898  Grace?  
Wantedlll Individuals and Student  call 272-1663 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  TICKETS  I NEED 1 AF stud or GA KERRY 4879  PERSONAL  Paul-Happy 21st! Don't drink too much rum and remember !!lso to  
Organizations to Promote SPRING  FALL 95. 272-6306  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  have a glass of beer and drink to  
BREAK '95. Eam substantial  272-6551  I need Air Force tixl!ll Please Call  grad school (ha ha ha). Congrats,  
MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL­ x3830 Did I mention that I will final­ Notre Dame's Traditional Irish Band  you're not the baby of the "family"  
INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­ ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  ly go out with the 3B six-man lately  ... Seamaisin .... 1st CD at the  anymore. Love, Schmoo  
800-327-6013  272-6306  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  I've been a wuss.  Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas  

Friday, November 11, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• VOllEYBALL 
Netters play for perfect record in regular season 
Miller 
continued from page 1 
Galleria shopping mall and pur­chased "bags and bags of expensive clothing" and three sets of expensive tires and wheels. The group then allegedly stopped at a drive­through beverage store where they spent $200 on liquor. 
Miller and others were caught on video tape using checks they said had been stolen. 
"We were able to videotape them using checks to purchase something," Glendening said. 
It was also learned that Miller was indicted and sentenced to six months probation and or­dered to pay a $200 fine in 1993 on a misdemeanor charge of assualt and bodily injury. 
The charge involved a female student in a dormitory at the University of Houston, accord­ing to Harris County, Texas, court records. It was not known if Notre Dame officials knew of the 1993 indictment. 
Fort Bend police also said two checks stolen from the Houston area were located last March by police at Best Buy, 6502 Grape Road in Mishawaka, a report that was confirmed by Mishawaka police. It was not 


Stanford 
continued from page 14 
between number 2 Stanford and number 3 Off Campus is the real championship matchup between the league's two best teams. 
Off Campus enters the game coming off a 20-0 drubbing of Alumni. "We feel we have the best defense in the league," known whether the stolen checks had any link to Miller or any connection to an investiga­tion which. took place last April when stolen merchandise was found in an apartment where gas and utilites were registered to Miller. No charges were pressed after the investigation found only insufficient evi­dence. 

"It sounds like he had the same scam up there that they had down here," Glendening said. "Down here, it's a big check scam. Miller's just on the tail end." 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz was called August 19 by Glen­dening and was told by the de­tective that he needed to talk to Miller. The detective did not inform Holtz that Miller was being investigated. 
"I told him I was investigating an airline ticket purchased by, Michael Miller with a stolen check," Glendening told the South Bend Tribune. "The con­versation was brief." 
After contacting Holtz and talking with Miller, Glendening telephoned Lt. William Held of Notre Dame Security to assist him with the investigation. 
Glendening said--Miller main­tains he was the middle man in the airline-ticket exchange. The two other men arrested with 
captain Dave Dettore said, "but Stanford probably has the most potent offense." 
Stanford's offense revolves primarily around running back Chris Pollina. Pollina has bro­ken for gains of near fifty yards virtually every game this sea­son. "If we can shut Pollina down, we'll be alright," Dettore said. 
Crime quarterback Chris Hammond is coming off a big performance in which he threw Miller were Ron Chaney and Jordon Williams. Both were classmates of Miller at Willow Ridge High School in Sugar­land, Texas. 
According to Glendening, the investigation began late last June after Miller purchased airline tickets with a stolen check for himself and a Notre Dame teammate. On Oct. 25, indictments were returned against Miller and his two for­mer high school dassmates. On Nov. 4, Glendening sent copies of the indictment to Hedl. 
Notre Dame officials report­edly only becamfl aware of the investigation when the indict­ments were sent to the Univer­sity last week. 
Two Notre Dame players who reportedly bought tickets from Miller were also questioned but will not be charged. "We are going to give thflm the benefit of the doubt," Glendening said. "Hopefully, they were just being stupid." 
Notre Dame and Holtz would not comment on the matter, but Notre Dame's head coach said he had not talked with his Miller. The Irish face Florida State in Orlando Saturday. 
"Anything about the matter has to come from the Univer­sity," Holtz said. "I've taken the same approach with the team. I haven't discussed it." 
for two touchdowns and ran for a third. Dettore feels that ifthe offense can get some points on the board, the defense will do the rest. "We don't have much respect for the small dorms," he said despite Stanford's supe­rior ranking. 
The key to the game will be whether or not the Studs can penetrate the Crime defense on the ground. "We don't think anyone can run over us," Dettore said. 
-
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
Seven down, three to go. These numbers describe the Notre Dame volleyball team's performance in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference thus far this season. 
The Irish will complete regu­lar season play in the MCC this weekend when they host Wisconsin-Green Bay on Friday night, and La Salle and Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Saturday. The Irish are cur­rently undefeated at 7-0 in the conference, with three of those seven victories occurring in the last five days. 
On Wednesday night, the Irish defeated the No. 4 team of the conference, Loyola. Loyola brought a 5-2 conference record into the match, 23-7 overall. The Irish won the match in three games 15-5, 15­3,and15-11. 
In the third game, Loyola gave the Irish a bit of scare by shooting out to a 9-5 lead. But under the lift of senior co-cap­tain Christy Peters, who played her first game in eleven games due to an extended illness, the Irish successfully completed the game and the match. 
Freshman Angie Harris con­tinued to dominate Irish oppo­nents as she led the team with 17 kills, 10 digs, and 4 service aces. Harris set an Irish single season service ace record with 63 aces, with four matches re­maining in the regular season. She also holds the single match service ace record, which she set when she broke her own record with eight service aces against Texas earlier last month. 
The Irish look to complete their undefeated season in the MCC this weekend, which is important as they head into the MCC tournament next week­end. The conference does not offer much competition for the tenth ranked Irish, and this is expected to be evident this weekend. Wisconsin-Green Bay is seventh in the MCC, and Wisconsin-Milwaukee and La Salle line the floor of the con­ference with the ninth and tenth position. 
The Irish will in no way look past this weekend, mostly be­cause it will be the last regular season home games in the ca­reers of the team's senior co­captains Nicole Coates and Christy Peters. Both Coates and Peters have been two of the most outstanding and excit­ing players in the history of the Notre Dame volleyball pro­gram. One of the most signifi­cant of their accomplishments have been captaining this year's team. 
"Being captain has been a lit­tle more significant because we have a greater responsibility in the team's performance and character," said Coates. 

I ' 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 11, 1994 
• INTERHALL fOOTBALL 

Flanner ready to meet Women's IH action on Sunday 
ByB.J.HOOD Pangborn (6-1) played tough "bend but don't break" defense, 
Sports Writer defense as well in their 6-0 vic-and stuck it out and won in

fourth-ranked Zahm 
tory over Lewis. oyertime." 
For the second straight year, "Our defense played Off-Campus (5-1-1) wide re-By JACK MACLEOD fourth quarter game-winning th "G f th c t " 'll 
. h e arne o e en ury · WI outstanding. They kept us all ceiver Michelle Drury th1'nks 
Sports Writer dnve t ey put together last b h ld h f
week to beat Keenan. e e on t e campus 0 Notre in it," Kraft said. her team has played well. 
They say lightning never "We've been inconsistent in Dame. Last year, No.l Florida The big game will take place "We are really starting to strikes twice, and Zahm better our drives all season," Dave State played No. 2 Notre Dame; at Cartier Field on Sunday at 3 come together as a team, and hope it doesn't. Bozanich said, "so hopefully we this year, top-ranked Pangborn p.m. our offense and defense are 
Last week the Gamecocks of can pick up where we left off will battle 2nd-ranked Lyons. playing well." Flanner Hall played their best last week." Maybe the game isn't that Siegfried vs. Off Campus Spencer voiced concern of game all season, yeilding no Too Keller admits that big. It is that big, however, to Off-Campus's offense. turnovers and upsetting top Flanner is "a little worried the two teams involved. In Sunday's second matchup, "They have some good run-ranked Carroll7-6. about Zahm's speed," but "There is excitement and in-one team hopes it doesn't see ning backs and wide receivers 
"We wefre extremely lucky to accor_d1h'nghto Zahmh captian tensity involved in playing a five injured players again. The and a tight end. They're an of-p!ay a 1aw1ess game 1ast 8ozamc , t ey wi11 ave much good team," Pangborn quar-· 
week," Too Keller said. Keller more to contend with than the other hopes to continue injur-fensive power." 
terback Mary Kraft said. · · d " Off c · · d b
captains a squad that entered Zahm's players. mg opposmg etenses. -ampus IS worr1e a out the playoffs ranked eighth and Lyons (6-l) is coming off a Siegfried (5-0-2) was involved Siegfried's offense too. 
decisive 13-0 win over " 
has gotten little respect from Off Campus vs. Stanford in a game where five players Their quarterback is really press and opposition. The top Pasquerilla East. Key in the left the game due to injury. good, so we need to keep up 
seed is gone and Flanner finds Although the game will not win was tough defense and ad-"That was a rough game," our quality play on defense," itself still alive in the semi-be played in the stadium, many equate offense. Siegfried cornerback Sam Drury said. finals. people argue that the game "I think we played well as a Spencer said. "Everyone got The game will take place at 
"We're just happy to be team," Lyons tailback Jenny injured and nobody was click-Cartier Field on Sunday at 4 here," Keller said of his team's see STANFORD I page 13 Layden said. ing. We won because we had a p.m. 
suprising advancement. Whlle -=============================================::::;t
the Gamecocks have not been considered a serious playoff contender this year, they have made semi-final appearances in three of the last four years and will not be intimidated by the more intense game atmos­phere. 
Keller attributes Flanner's success to their team play, as several reserves have stepped up to fill in for the injured cen­ter and middle linebacker Josh Quinn. 
The 'Cocks will play the role of underdogs once again this week, as they face a fourth ranked Zahrn team that has been hot recently as well. Zahm hopes to build on the 
The ickory 
Uillase Love Affair 
Look At What 

$295 
Can Get You: 

,. 
• 
AGreat One-Bedroom Apartment 


• 
(Efficiencies from $280, T'Ml Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Sparkling Pool and Sundeck 

• 
Beautiful Clubhouse 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Laundry Facilities 

• 
Cable TV Available 

• 
Close to Great Shopping 



-
• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance 


272-1880 

.. 
, 
Call or stop by today and 'Ml'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 

+llCKORij 

~ DlLLA~E~ 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 &Sun. 12-4 
Ir 

Spring 1995 Center for Social Concerns 




Sen,lna·t•· 
The Mexico Seminar is a one-credit service-learning opportunity in Oaxaca, Mexico. During two weeks in late spring/early summer, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students provide service to a variety of people while experiencing the realities of Latin America directly. Cosponsored by Maryknoll, the program seeks to provide intercultural exchange through shared work experience in the context of a faith community. Students participate in fundraising efforts to lower costs. 
Two weeks in Oaxaca, Mexico: May 15 to May 31th, 1995 
(leaving time for summer work) 
Service-learning cosponsored by Maryknoll 
(Call and Response Program) 
One credit Theology 
Spanish helpful but not required 
Information Meeting: 
Thursday, Nov. 17,4:15 PM at the Center (optional) 
Applications are available at the Center 
-Applications due Nov. 30th with deposit 
For more information: Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 Sara Skalicky, 634-4949 

.... -' .. 
------.-.-----------------, ---.-----.-----.-----,I 
Friday, November 11, 1994 ' The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

* 
1994 NICC CHANIPIONS \ 

* 
SIX HONIE SHUTOUTS IN '94 

* 
10 HONIE lNINS IN '94 

* 
OUTSCORED OPPONENTS 13-5 INI '94 CONFERENCE TOURNEY 

* 
OUTSCORED OPPONENTS 52-2& ALL OF '94 SEASON 


AND FAR FROM BEING DONE ••• 
1994 NOTRE DAME MEN'S SOCCER: Front Row (from left to right) -Manager Brian Koluch, Pat Polking, Tont Richardson, Brian Engesser, Jason Fox, Tim Oates, Bill Savarino, Scott Wells, Antonio Capasso, Chris Dean, Bert Bader, Manager Shawn Murphy. Back Row (from left to right) -Head Coach Mike Berticelli, Ray Prado, Chris Conway, Konstantin Koloskov, Josh Landman, Matt Zimmer, 
.. Ryan Turner, Peter Ganster, Jean Joseph, Kevin Adkisson, Chris Mathis, Keith Carlson, Joe Gallo, Dane Whitley, Rick Christopher, Assistant Coach Mike Parsons. 
7:30 TOMORROW NIGHT! 
NCAA TOURNAMENT PLAY.fN 
UNIVERSITY ~ 
OF .~• CENTRAL 



NOTRE DAME ,~CONNECTICUT
~ , STATE 

Alumni Field -behind the Joyce Center 
~ 
r.·.· ·.­
-
page I6 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November II, I994 
• CROSS COUNTRY 

Cross country teams compete for championships 
By KATE CRISHAM AND SARAH O'DONNELL Spons Wri1ers 
Dorothy Parker once said that the definition of guts is "grace under pressure". If this is true, then the Notre Dame men's cross country team will be in need of some serious intestinal fortitude as they race in the NCAA District IV champi­onships tomorrow. 
The 15th-ranked Irish need to place third or higher in Saturday's meet or receive an at-large bid in order to advance to the NCAA championships in Fayetteville, Arkansas next week. According to head coach Joe Piane, his team un­derstands full well the gravity of the situation. 
"This meet is the first rottnd of the NCAAs," said Piane. "Without a successful weekend, there is no championship for us." 
Fortunately, Piane's squad has performed best this year in high pressure situations. After an inauspicious start, including a season-opening loss to Georgetown and a third-place finish at the National Catholic Invitational, the Irish went on to capture the Midwestern Collegiate Conference champi­onship. Now Piane hopes that his team will be able to hit their stride when it really counts-at the national championships. 
Notre Dame placed fifth at last year's championships, largely with the help of gradu­ated senior and four-time All­American Mike McWilliams. Although this year's squad has no such front-runner, Piane is relying on his bevy of talented, veteran runners, including se­niors Nate Ruder and John Cowan and junior Joe Dunlop, to lead the Irish. 
"We've got a good group of runners and we're the defend­ing champions," said Piane. "The key is making sure we're in the top three." 
According to Piane, Notre Dame's primary competition will come from Big Ten teams Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Illinois. 
"Mid-America Conference teams like Eastern Michigan and Ohio University are also talented, and Marquette may test us as well," he said. 
Cowan, Ruder, Dunlop, juniors Joe Dunlop and Derek Martisus, sophomore Matt Althoff, and freshmen Jason Hexing and Will Clark will be racing for the Irish. 
According to Piane, the wom­en's team is ranked 16th in the country, and stands a good chance of moving up in the polls after Saturday's NCAA District IV Championship. 
The top two teams in the 5,000 meter race will qualify for the NCAA's, and there is the possibility that the third place team will receive an at-large bid. This, however, is no guar­antee. Piane is optimistic about his team's chances of a strong finish. 

Midnight Tonight ... 
Lookout... 
Ial1Iitru Ii~ JFiim~ll7 1r1!ll1trufitru~ ~Il~ 

Stay Moist Until Then 
Happy Birthday Erin! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Wilbur, Shannon, Laurie and Friskey 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $49", now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on NO football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634,1740 

"I think the ladies are capable of being in the top three. They need to run well to be in the top two. I think that if we receive third, our chances of an at­large bid are very good," he said. "So, our main goal is to qualify for the NCAA and, sec­ondly, to finish no worse than third." 
Piane explained that after scoping out the competition and evaluating his team's perfor­mances throughout the season, his goals are not unrealistic. 
"Fourth-ranked Michigan and eighth-ranked Wisconsin are our two biggest competitors," he said. 
In order for the Irish to finish in the top three, they need to have two women place in the top 10, two place in the top 20 and one finish in the top 30. 

He is looking to seniors Kristi Kramer, Maureen Kelly and Sarah Riley to lead the charge. 
"Last year, Riley was our first All-American, another of our best kept secrets," said Pian e. 
Teamwise, the coach said that at this point in the season, their biggest strength is that they do not have one runner who will win the race; they have five runners who can run extremely well. 
"Our weakness is that we don't have that one runner. So, I guess our strength and weak­ness are almost the same thing," he said. 
In addition, the team has been injury-free the entire sea­son, something Piane feels is a definite positive for Saturday's race. 
I 
MUSEUM SHOP CHRISTMAS OPEN HOUSE 
~ 
~ Saturday, November 12, 1994 10:00 a.m. 4:00p.m. 
1Oo/o OFF TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC 
20o/o OFF TO THE FRIENDS OF THE . 
Gift Suggestion: A membership to The Snite Museum of Art with year round benefits! 
THE SNITE MUSEUM 
OF ART UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
The Museum Shop .. A place for special gifts! 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: ROSSI COREY OR BOB AT BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS TOURS 1-800-875-4525 PARTXU tftRl' ffl'GNT!! OP£ff BAR FROM 10:30PM-3:00AM AT "THE BEST ffiGIIT 'LU~S IN "THE WORLD!!!  
ta\travelmore ~Carlson Travel Network------.bu..._.._;.... -------­-----­Europe!! Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist Let us send you to Europe! *Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. *Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! No service fee! Timetables, prices, tickets available! *Car Rentals Discounted car rentals! Available in all European Countries! *Experience Over 20 years experience working with Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­219 271-4880  


Todos Estan lnvitados 
-
All Are Welcome 0fv1PUS MNIS"IRY 


Friday, November 11, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE FOOTBAll 


Moss arrested on drug charge 
By ARTHUR SRB football team pending resolu­He was carrying four-tenths 
Associated Press tion of the case, coach Barry of a gram of crack with a street Alvarez said. Wisconsin has two value of $50, police spokes­games left and Moss is in his woman Dorothy Doheny said. 
MADISON, Wis. 

last year of eligibility. "I am shocked with Brent's
Wisconsin tailback Brent Moss, 22, was arrested apparent involvement in this
Moss, a Rose Bowl MVP on the 
Wednesday night on the city's matter." Alvarez said a uni­
verge of breaking the school's 
South Side on a police charge of versity statement. "It's tragiccareer rushing mark, has been possessing crack cocaine with whenever young people getarrested on a cocaine posses­intent to deliver, Lt. Jill inolved in drugs in any manner.
sion charge, police said today. 
Klubertanz said. Our immediate concern is withMoss was suspended from the Brent and his teammates' wel­

~amue~ 




ancino 's 
ITALIAN EATERY 
Football Feast 
The perfect food while watching the 
Irish beat FSU Available all Day Saturday and Sunday Monday After 4:00 m. 

St. Andrew's Plaza 620 W. Edison Rd. Suite 130 Mishawaka, IN 46545 
254-9533 
LaSalle Square 913 N. Bendix Drive South Bend, IN 46628 
234-5817 
fare." 
Moss also was accused of speeding and failing to signal a turn, Doheny said. She declined to elaborate on the cir­cumstances of Moss' arrest. 
A 21-year-old man who was a passenger in a car driven by Moss was arrested on a police charge of delivery of crack co­caine and open intoxicants in a motor vehicle, Doheny said. 
Moss remained in custody this morning, Klubertanz said. No formal charges had been filed by the Dane County District Attorney's Office. No court appearance was sched­uled. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 


[219)232-8444 

WHAT 'LS AN URBAN PLUNG.E? 
* 
4 8 h.our experience i,n an i-nner ci-ty of your ch.oi.ce 

* 
Duri,nq the week of January 3 -10th (elates are ch.osen by the h.ost si,te) 

* 
See soup h,i,tch.ens, sh.dters, weLfare o.qenci,es , etc . 

* 
T~ to h-omeLess peopLe 

* 
nee.t oth.ers wh.o are tryi,nq to mau li-fe better for peopLe of poverty 



~i-strations availab[e. at the. Center for SociaL Concerns and Campus ninistry -U.N1J Campus nini-stry, Justice :Education Office and nu£ticu£tura.L Offices-Snc T~ Office of HCC 

-~---··----"~--..------.,...,...,.........,..~-­
Not a Franchise! Mon-Sat 11:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m.A Family Owned Business Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 

257-1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery 
Call 272-2EA1~ 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 

..... page I8 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November II, I994 


• SMC SWIMMING • MEN'S SOCCER 
Belles prepare 

for grudge meet Irish aim for NCAA tournament 
with Calvin 
ByJENNIFER LEWIS Saim Mary's Sports Editor 

After losing to Calvin College in last year's dual meet, the Saint Mary's swim team finally gets to seek revenge. The Belles will face Calvin this Saturday at Rolf's Aquatic Center, promptly at 2 pm, for their second dual meet of the season. 
Calvin has always been a strong swim team, according to coach Greg Janson. Last year Saint Mary's placed first in several events, but Calvin dom­inated the second, third, and fourth place positions, allowing Calvin to take the meet. 
"Calvin worked us pretty hard last year," Janson said. "We match them pretty well this year, and we plan to give them a run for their money." 
Natalie Cheeseman and Jennifer Dyjak are two juniors to watch in Saturday's meet. Both of their times have improved consistently from the first meet. Shannon Kelleher will push to improve her times in the 1000 freestyle and 500 freestyle, and Allison Smith will be tested in the 200 Butterfly. 
The swim team is a young team, consisting of eleven freshman, three sophomores, eight juniors, and four seniors. 
"We have a lot of good fresh­men, who are backed up by a lot of upper classmen," said Katie Northrup. "It will be a close meet." 

Notre Dame Communication and Tizeatre presents the Creek tragedy 
At Washington Hall 
Wednesday, November 16 H p.m. Thursday, November 17 H p.m. Friday, November I H Hp.m. Saturday, November 19 H p.m. Sunday, November 20 2:30 p.m. 
Reserved Seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday. 

Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the ---THE---LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
BACCHAE MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. BY EURIPIDES 
Directed by Guest Director Bonnie Morzte 





Subway's One 


Try SUBWAY's new A.1. Steak &Cheese six-inch sub for just $1.99 with the purchase of amedium soft drink. For alimited time only. 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sports Writer 
One step. 

One more step and the Notre Dame inen's soccer team is in the NCAA tournament. One more step and one save until senior goalkeeper Bert Bader accumulates 300 career saves. 
To take this step the (11-9-2) Irish must prevail when they battle Mid-Continental Champion Central Connecticut this Saturday at 7:30 at Alumni Field. 
Entering the match with a 15­5-2 record, the Blue Devils boast the better record and a dominant scorer in forward Everton Barrington. Barrington's 52 points this sea­son ranks him first in New England and eighth nationally. 
"We're approaching them as their conference champion," coach Mike Berticelli said. "They come in with a better record, they've scored more goals, and given up less. They have very good players, and we have no one in the top ten of scoring like they do." 
Compliments aside, the Blue Devil's schedule was not one of the most demanding. The majority of the Blue Devil victo­ries came against Maryland­Eastern Shore, Northeastern University, Onsonta State and Sienna College. Some of their losses came against the University at Buffalo and Maine (Orono). 
Yet, this is the type of team that the Irish had difficulty with earlier in the season, i.e. Loyola and Northern Illinois. 
"It only matters how good a team you are for 90 minutes," Berticelli explained. "It's like the first round of the NCAA for us." 
With the same level of perfor­mance, as was demonstrated against their MCC tournament foes, the Irish should be opti­mistic about their chances. 
"The team is real upbeat, and focused on Central Connecticut," Bader said. "There are no other teams to be focused on, this is the tour­nament. If we don't win we go home." 
A main reason for such opti­mism is the play of Bader. 
He has shut down opponent offenses all season. He has recorded seven shutouts and 80 saves so far this season, and was named the MCC defensive player of the week for third week of October. 
He has become the career saves record holder at Notre Dame, and, with only one more save, he will break 300 career saves. 
He also holds the Notre Dame career marks for shutouts (31), games played by a goalkeeper (76), and wins by a goalkeeper (48). 




Don't miss the Irish soccer teams in 
action this weekend as the No. 1·women play host to the NCAA Tournament and the men play host to the NCAA play-in. 

I 

"Bert has been very consis­tent," Berticelli said. "The team needs to know he will make the saves, and he's done that. Team confidence and the team record come from that." 
'(his consistency comes from his focus, and readiness to make to big play. 
"I have to make the big save," Bader explained. "The guys in 
BUY ANY CAPPUCCINO OR MOCHA OR LATIE COFFEE DRINK AND GET 50¢ OFFI 
~·!I 
Not valid with any other offer : Expires 12115/94 1 
L---------------------~ 
front of me do 99 percent of the work, but, when that one shot comes, I have to be ready. You never know when it is going to come." 
Thus, with the readiness of Bader in goal and the recently prolific offense, the Irish are ready to take that step, through the Blue Devils and into the NCAA tournament. 
riiuv-1~-GerrFRE£11 IBUY1SCOOPOFOURPREM~! 
UM ICE CREAM AND GET A 2"" : SCOOP FREEl : 
I I I ~ ~~(I I 
I Can't BeUeve lVII Q' ~ I d'l"'...... ~ I
.&.0&~ ~ ': 
<I> I 
Wr l"ul A Salta 011 Your T•trl• I 
I Not valid with any other offer : Expires 12115/94 1 
L---------------------~ 

NCAA WOMEN'S SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP 
at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SATURDAY, NOV. 12-REGIONAL SEMIFINAL 
1.p.m. • Washington State vs. William &Mary 
3:30 p.m. • George Mason vs. NOTRE DAME 
SUNDAY, NOV. 13-REGIONAL FINAL 2p.m • Winners of Saturday's Games 


.,,,,,,_ 

r·---,--~~---------~ 
Friday, November 11, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 



FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 
DOGI3ERT THE CONSULTANT 
-:-:+:-+::::+.::-t::-1 25 Prefix with "crat" -:::+.::+.::+.:-t::-1 27 Fixes the I e ngth of 
SUB presents: 
Woody Allen's 
"Play zt again, Sam'' 
Dessert Theatre 
Performed by the 
Alpha Omega Players 
1 RE.COI"'MEND LETIING THE ENGINEERS ORDER THEIR OWN .SUPPLIES WITHOUT MANAGEf"\E.NT 
AND 1

'(ES !11 l'f'\ RECOt1f1EN D BUYINGRICH ll HA HA 
·'f'UT"OPTIONS IN YOUR

HA HA HA lll 
STOCK. 

53 Stylus 54 Eocene, for one 56 Finally had 
some luck 58 Corner 59 Three-time U.S. 
Open tennis champ 60 Common dog's name 81 Volunteer's place 
DOWN 
1 Pronunciation symbol 2-Bronx­
3 Parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme 
4 Piston 
5 Site of Eastern 
iniquity 8 "CHiPs" star 7 Parses, in a way 8 Just beats 9--Pieces 

10The sun 11 Body of members of equal authority 
12 Field 
13 Darn 
15-Park, N.J. 
20 Upton Sinclair novel 24 "The Icarus Agenda" author 

28 Sault-Marie  41 "Oh, now­ 48 Fort -,Fla.  
29 Restaurateur  bad guy!"  49 Talus site  
Toots  42 Actress  50 Automotive  
30 Coffee break time 31 Didn't stir  Thurman 43 Choir director's exhortation 48 Range  pioneer 51 One of TV's Taylors 55 1969 Broadway 
33 Predetermine the outcome  47 Says "one club," maybe  hit 57 Legal matters  
35 Sunbathes  

36 Not worth 
Get answers to any three clues

quitting over 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

39 Advice column 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
start 

A comical play describing one man's fantasy to be just like Humphrey Bogart 
Dessert begins at 7:30 Play starts at 8 Wednesday, November 16 LaFortune Ballroom 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

.. 
• 
.... 

Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds! 

APPROVAL 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Comic strip pianist 10 Defraud 14 London district 15 Bond man 
1&Andrew Jackson's home, with "the" 
17 The "her" of "Leave Her to Heaven" 
18 Entanglement 
191ncites 
21 Man of 
tomorrow 22 Roman art 23 "The French 
Connection" locale 
25 Recipe words 26 Discards 29 Gulf and jet, 
e.g. 32 Legislature 33 Koln's river 34 Bow to gravity 36 "Blubber" writer 37 They're 
charged 38 Thanksgiving services 40 Dutch statesman Hugo 44 Blue Jays or Cardinals, e.g. 45 High-up 
apparatchik 47 Medical suffix 50 Basketball's 
Manute­52 Trumpet blast 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1·. 
SPORTS 

page 20 Friday, November 11, 1994 
Experience in making choices has made Jen Renola 

.. 
one of the 

• 
What: Opening Round, NCAA Women's Soccer Tournament When: Saturday, 3:30p.m. Where: Alumni Field 
First 500 Students udmilted free courtesy ofPapa John's PiWJ 
• WoMEN's SoccER 
By Rian Akey 

Decisions 

Last season, Notre Dame women's soccer goalkeeper Jen Renola was good. 
She was solid. 
She was tough. 
But she wasn't great. 
This season, however, Renola has emerged as one of the top goalkeepers in the country. In 21 starts, she has compiled a .412 goals-against average while posting eight complete game shut-outs and six more with back-up goal­keeper Emily Loman. 
But despite her statistics, Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli points to one change 
see RENOIA I page 12 



of note...
MEN'S SOCCER
... 
See Sports Extra for all the 
The Irish host Central Connecticut in an 
ND vs. FSU
NCAA qualifying match . 
..I!­
football details. 
See page 18 




