

~150 YEARS~ 
gj 
(JJ 
c: 
~ 
~ 
z 

>
1:'""
Monday, December 5, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.62 
~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
South Bend Police advise in ·crime prevention 
By LIZ FORAN your empty house, apartment the holidays. Associate News Editor or car while you are out of town Home Watch, a program of­for three weeks, and have fered by South Bend police, is Ah, Christmas time. That themselves a merry little strongly backed by both Notre 
wonderful time of year when Christmas. Dame Security and Student many people turn to thoughts of Notre Dame Security and the Government. It has police check 
joy, peace and love. South Bend Police Department the horne up to three times a Unfortunately, other people have several programs which day for any signs of tampering may be thinking about how can help off-campus students or entry, according to Sgt. easy it would be to break into keep their belongings safe over George Gherardi, a crime pre­vention specialist with the South Bend Police Department. Home Watch is easy to use
Off campus students 
and may prevent your house from becoming a target over break. To have your house put


must take precau­
on the list: 
• Telephone South Bend

By LIZ FORAN neighborhood to neighbor­
Police at 235-9201 and ask to 

Associate News Editor hood," Gherardi said. "Crime 
sign up for Home watch. 
rates may go up or down in a 
• Identify yourself as a Notre

Protecting your home and particular neighborhood. but 
Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy

valuables when living off cam­the percentages of different Cross student. 
pus involves being aware and crimes will remain the same. 
• Tell police when (day and

taking precautions, said Sgt. Larceny always makes up the 
date) you are leaving and when

George Gherardi, crime pre­largest part." 
you will return.

vention specialist at the South Different types of larceny in­
• Be prepared to give police a

Bend Police Department. clude theft from automobiles, 
contact person and telephone

Many off-campus students thett of auto parts, purse 
number in case there is a prob­

reside in the neighborhood di­snatching and thefts from 
lem at your residence. You can

rectly south of campus, known yards, he said. 
give them your telephone num­

as the Northeast Items such as televisions, 
ber at home or you an ask

Neighborhood. Gherardi said. computers and stereo systems 
someone reliable in the South

According to department sta­are popular items to take in 
Bend area to be your contact

tistics, burglary and larceny home burglaries because they person.
accounted for a total of 85 per­are easily converted to cash by 
"Once you call in," Gherardi

cent of all crimes in district 10, thieves, he said. 
explained, "your house is

which is bordered by the St. Gherardi added that putting 
placed in a log book for the

Joe River on the west, Eddy the boxes from new appliances 
days you will be gone. The beat The Observer/Julie Lombardi Street on the east and Angela out with the trash without officer assigned to that district Students who rent houses such as these on Notre Dame Avenue areAvenue on the north. breaking them down is like ad-prime targets for theft and should take precautions before leaving for"Crime statistics remain con­
see PREVENTION I page 4

see OFF CAMPUS I page 4 Christmas.
stant· in percentages from 

Childers touts United Nations Schultz named first VP 
place public sentiment unwar­in international agreements. 

of Saint Mary's Mission 
Prime Minister rantedly against the UN. He Continuing on that point, noted that the UN's staff, much Childers said that funds forfrom Ireland of which consists of translators other well-planned projects 
By MYRNA MALONEY taken by the College in order for the three main UN offices is were forced to the back finan­
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor for its mission statement to becalls for change smaller than that of New York cially when UN peacekeepers lived out among the students. City. were authorized by the UN 
As the first Vice President for The core themes include intel­He also stated that the UN Security Council, thus straining Mission at Saint Mary's College, lectual vigor, aesthetic appreci­
By EDWARD IMBUS 
staff working through UN pro­the UN till even further. 

Sister Rose Anne Schultz, C.S.C ation, religious and social re­
News Writer 
grams do an excellent job given In keeping with the theme o 

hopes to incorporate the goals sponsibility. and are empha­the funds available to them. the conference, "Creating a 
and values of the Congregation sized throughout the under­Blasting critics of the United The amount of UN funds, how­More Democratic and Effective of the Sisters of the Holy Cross graduate program at Saint
Nations but recommending 
ever, is significantly smaller UN," Childers listed twenty rec­with those listed in the mission Mary's.

changes for future implementa­than it ought to be because its ommendations as to what the statement of the College. The latter characterize the
tion. former Irish Prime 
richer and more powerful UN needed to address as an or­Schultz, a former Chair of the four acquired components of aMinister Erskine Childers spoke members, such as the United ganization and how to effect Board of Regents and a current Saint Mary's alumna and are,Friday at a symposium held in States and Russia (who accept­that change. 
director of the Center for " ... keen self-knowledge, lively .
the Hesburgh Center. 
ed the debt of the former Soviet Before beginning structural Spirituality, was appointed last imagination, lifelong intellectu­Childers said that accusations Union), have failed to send changes, however, Childers June after a joint decision was al and cultural interests, andof a "bloated, ineffectual bu­money to the UN as promised outlined what he perceived to made by College President Dr. the ability to make sociallyreaucracy" are unfounded and 
be the most pressing problems William A. Hickey and Sister responsible choices about the facing the UN at this time: the Catherine O'Brien, President of future," according to the tern­severe lack of education of the the Sisters of the Holy Cross. plate. third world compared to the in­"As the Vice President of "The position of Vice dustrialized world, the extreme Mission, it is my responsibility President of Mission will pro­amount and abuse of power by to keep a link between the vide many ways to keep inte­permanent UN members, and College and the Congregation. grating the missions into the the overall disparity of wealth I assist members of the college daily activities of not only the between the northern and community in learning the his­students, but the whole Saint southern hemispheres. 
tory of the Congregation and in Mary's community," Schultz 
To illustrate his first point, he understanding its mission; my said. said that Notre Dame gradu­role is a very positive one as I Schultz was born in ates as many people each year work directly with Dr. Hickey in Wisconsin, grew up in Southern as the entire third world gradu­the process of mission integra­California and became familiar ates in two years percentage tion," Schultz said. with the Sisters of the Holy wise. 
According to Schultz, in order Cross throughout her elemen­
In order to become a truly to meet her goals she will first tary and secondary ~ducation. representative world body, the focus specifically on the "I admired their work, their' United Nation should take sev­Congregation's four core val­values and thought they were eral steps of radical reform. ues: compassion, faith, prayer ahead of their time which is First. all member nations and community. These will be why I decided to come to Saint should remit the financial aid examined within the commu­Mary's," Schultz said. they owe as promised. By do­nity to determine if, and how, After receiving her vows, she ing so, the UN could fund its they are being met. taught and was involved with 
The Observer/Julie Lombardi many departments to increase Next, Schultz will use the two elementary administration in its effectiveness in the world. 
"mission templates," or core Indiana and Illinois, and later 
Irish Prime Minister Erskine Childers defended the UN's reputation in Second, permanent member-themes and hallmarks, of the worked in religious education his lecture Friday night, while admitting these are changes to be 
College, as tools in realizingmade. see CHILDERS I page 4 
what necessary action must be see MISSION I page 4 


-~-----­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, December 5, 1994 


• INSIDE COLUMN 


Our language and its abuses 
I love English. In no Edward Imbus other language is there News Copy Ediror the precision and fluidity that English provides. English gives those who understand it and use it properly the ability to communicate ideas concisely and graphically, directly or subtly, and with only as many words as desired. 
Those who have mastered this powerful tool are called poets. They use the beautiful words to communicate their beliefs and feel­ings in ways that no one save a fool can call vague. These people always have a signifi­cant advantage in any debate or discussion for the simple reason that they are the most clear in their assertions. 
Unfortunately, most people are not poets. And even more sadly, there are many who come close to actually degrading English by its misuse and abuse, even here at Notre Dame. 
The University of Notre Dame last year proudly announced that, after a moment of sheer brilliance, the senior officers had cre­ated the position of University Ombudsperson to investigate complaints of racial or sexual discrimination or harassment. 
It was a great idea. Having a disinterested person handle su~h complaints shows that the University cares about its employees and con­solidates any unneeded bureaucracy so as not to hamper settling such disputes in a timely manner. 
However, there is one small problem. There is no such thing as an ombudsperson. 
The University was trying to be politically correct and change the word ombudsman into a less sexist term, assuming that ombudsper­son would be a word. 
Uad they asked any English professor, or any other learned person in English, or even a lowly Observer copy editor, they would have learned that their new administrator had a bogus title. The derivation of ombudsman is a Swedish, non-gender related concept. 
I hope that if Notre Dame's new administra­tor travels to other university campuses, he is not met with thoughts like, "Great title, Jack. I hope your brain is more substantial that your title." 
It should be noted that the ombudsman is, by all accounts, extremely intelligent and tal­ented at executing his duties, and is respected by those who speak of him. 
It is embarrassing and unprofessional, however, for anyone to have mistakes in his or her work presented to others. It seems that people take less pride in their finished product, or don't care if their work is tech­nieally horrid. 
The easiest way to avoid sounding stupid or vague or just wrong is by simply having someone, preferably a poet or aspiring poet, read a draft before it is presented for scrutiny. A poet indeed will take their time in assisting, for a true lover and master of English will not let the work become or stay shabby. He will take a small amount of pride in the work him­self-the paper, letter, or whatever it may be will reflect on the poet, and his love of English will not tolerate shaming it through vagueness or mistakes. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Gwendolyn Norgle Elizaberh Harnisch Mclaney Laflin David Diaz. 
Graphics Sports Roberr Bollman Man Casey 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Sweden killings stem from rejection at nightclub 
spokesman Walter Kegeo. "Several pea-
STOCKHOLM, Sweden Gunmen fired on a trendy nightclub in the capital early Sunday, killing three people and wounding 21. Police believe the killers were looking for revenge after being turned away from the club. The slayings were the latest in a string of murders that have shocked Sweden, which once experi­enced very littte violent crime. Police raided the apartment of one suspect in a working-class neighborhood south of Stockholm, but no one was there. Police said two other men also were involved in the shooting. The gunmen, dressed in military camouflage jackets, fired an au­tomatic rifle through the doors and win­dows of the Sture Company discotheque at 
5:15 a.m., about an hour after a dispute 

with the club's doormen, said police L--------=.:..::.:...===::.:..:__j 
Monarchy power would decrease 

LONDON 
Prince Andrew and his estranged wife, the Duchess of York, would be bounced ofT the royal payroll and the queen's power would be cut under a plan being considered by the opposi­tion Labor Party, a newspaper report­ed Sunday. The Labor Party issued a statement denying the report in The Sunday Times. But a party official told 


the British Broadcasting Corp. that some changes were being discussed. "The changes we are talking about do not necessarily spell the end of the monarchy, not for a second, but it does mean the monarchy's role will end up being redefined," said Labor spokesman Jack Straw. The Times reported that some royals, including Prince Andrew and the Duchess of York, Sarah Ferguson, could keep their titles under the plan but would no longer be publicly active as royalty. That would mean losing their combined annual pay of $380,000 a year. The queen would lose her power to dissolve parliament and make appointments without referring them to parliament, the newspaper said, quoting internal Labor Party documents. Those powers are largely theoretical. No monarch has acted against the advice of the prime minister in more than 200 years. 

Holiday headaches on the rise 

CHICAGO 
"From Thanksgiving to New Year's, we see a greater incidence of tension-type headaches and migraines," Diamond said. Dr. Seymour Diamond, executive director of the National Headache Foundation. "At my private headache clinic in Chicago, we treat about 40 percent more patients then than we would in a normal 40-day period -we're busy." Family stresses and long lines in hot, noisy department stores are enough to trigger ten­sion headaches even in people who aren't headache­prone. Diamond recommends shopping early. Failing that, he said: "Practicing relaxation and stretching tech­niques -such as neck rolls and slow deep breaths -is a good way to release built-up tension." Altered sleep pat­terns also play a role in headaches. Late-night parties can mean too little sleep, while time ofT can woo people into sleeping late -which contributes to headache-causing carbon dioxide buildup in the blood. ''Try to go to sleep and wake up the same time every day, whether you are going to work or not," Diamond said. 

Puerto Rico limits school vouchers 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico 
A court has struck down the largest school voucher pro­gram in the United States, leaving officials in this U.S. commonwealth searching for other ways to help the 2,013 poor students it benefits. Puerto Rico's Supreme Court ruled that a program that gives public school students vouchers to attend private schools violates the common­wealth's constitution, which prohibits providing public funds to private institutions. But Gov. Pedro Rossello vowed to seek alternatives to his administration's voucher program, which will end after the current school year. "The decision of the Supreme Court goes contrary to the interests of the children of our neediest families, who see ... a good education as an element of progress and hope," Rossello said in a written statement last week. Jose Eligio Velez, president of the Teachers Association which filed the court challenge, hailed Wednesday's court decision as protecting the public school system, The San Juan Star reported. "This law intended to disguise as free school choice the beginning of privatization and the elimination of public education," Velez was quoted as saying in Friday's editions. Under the program, the commonwealth government paid a secular or religious private school $1,500 toward the cost of educating a public school stu­dent whose family earned less than $18,000 a year. The tab this school year was $2.7 million for 2,013 students. 
Escaped prisoner killed in shootout 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
A convicted bank robber who escaped from federal cus­tody after handcuffing two guards was killed Sunday in a shootout with city police, ending a three-day manhunt. Michael Turner, serving two 15-year prison terms for a 1986 Alabama bank robbery, escaped Thursday from the federal courthouse in Kansas City, Kan. Authorities believe Turner escaped from the courthouse by using a fake gun carved from soap. Two guards were handcuffed to a pipe, and Turner allegedly stole two guns. Early Sunday, he robbed two guards at a power plant, hand­cuffed them and stole a car, stopping long enough to ask them for directions, police said. The car was spotted by a police officer, who chased it into a church parking lot. Turner fled into a wooded area, more officers arrived and a gun battle started. Turner, 38, was fatally wounded by a shotgun blast. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
Monday, Dec. 5 
Accu-Weather e forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


pie were turned away by the doormen earlier and a scuffle broke out. They came back later," Kegoe said. People inside the central Stockholm disco said the shooting set off a panic. "As I walked down the stairs, I saw blood spurting everywhere," one man told Swedish tele­vision. "Then I saw people just fall every­where, and then I heard people say 'Run,' so we ran back into the club." Another man said he dropped to the floor and cov­ered his head when the shooting started. "There was total panic. When the firing stopped after about 15 seconds, people started to yell and cry." A doorman and two women were killed, police said. At least two of the wounded were in critical condition. 

The Accu-Weather<~> forecast for noon, Monday, Dec. 5. 
Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
v .. ~trPCt,... 

Tho Obscrv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcC'pt during r.-xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associar«l Pross. All reproducrion righcs are reserv«l. 
Atlanta  68  56  Dallas  73  58  New Orleans 70  65  
Baltimore 58  42  Denver  61  33  New York  65 48  
Boston  65  42  Los Angeles 62  55  Philadelphia  64 42  
Chicago  56  39  Miami  83  77  Phoenix  67  46  
Columbus 61  50  Minneapolis 35  32  St. Louis  65  54  




Monday, December 5, 1994 
---~-----~-----------­
---~--~­
page 3 
The Observer • NEWS 

Notre Dame called to show concern 
By MARY PELZER News Writer 
Roman Catholicism's deep roncern regarding social issues was stressed in a talk given by Associate Professor and Director of the Cushwa Center Scott Appleby. 
Appleby said that as a 
Catholic university committed to encouraging economic and political justice, Notre Dame is called to demonstrate Catholicism's preoccupation with social concerns. 
However, this is a difficult task to accomplish, according to Appleby. 
First, there is skepticism 
CLUB COLUMN 
December 5, 1994 

Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4:00 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe ~ 
Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination 
Council offtce in room 206 LaFortune. 
1. 
IMPORTANT-The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all Presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second floor of LaFortune across from the Student Government Office .. 

2. 
SHENANIGANS--Notre Dame's only singing and dancing ensem­ble will be having its annual Christmas concert on Saturday, December 10 at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Free Admission. 


3.TROOP NO Will be holding dance classes again on Tuesday, 
December 6, from 8-10 p.m. at 219 Rockne. Everyone interested is 
welcome to attend. Call Emile (x3569) ifyou have any questions. 
Marakon 
remaining from pre-Vatican II days towards the worth of ex­periential learning, which Appleby said is "an integral and privileged mode of academic discourse." 
For Appleby, the experience 
of Vatican II had widespread 
implications for the meaning of 
Catholicism. Prior to the 
Council, the traditional view of 
God was that of a transcendent 
being removed from everyday 
human experience. 
In contrast to earlier times, 
Church leaders now preach 
understanding of God primarily 
gained through interaction with 
other members of His commu­
nity. This change in focus 
makes it difficult for some to 
appreciate Catholicism's 
involvement in social welfare 
issues, according to Appleby. 
The cause of social concen is 
hindered by recent trends in 
American religion that call 
attention to issues that seem 
essential only to those directly 
involved in de legitimizing and 
dehumanizing those holding the 
opposite position, Appleby con­
tinued. 
He said that there are the 

fundamentalists, who trace the root of all social problems and the loss of Catholic identity to 
~ the 1962 Supreme Court ruling against prayer in public schools. 
Opposing them in the "culture wars" are the radilml feminists, characterized by their disgust of the patriarchal cnlture and their desire for change. 
"This situation animates the criticisms of social concerns in­volvement," Appleby stated. 
For the fundamentalists, "religion has been sabo­taged...by good-hearted, mushy headed liberals." 
Catholics and the University of Notre Dame should con­sider the distinctiveness of Catholicism, he said. University officials should remain con­cerned about renewing Catholic ministry and continue demon­strating to students how faith can be integrated throughout a lifetime. 
A Catholic's compassionate, concerned response to social needs should be rooted in the biblical depths of Catholicism, he said. 
Associates 
ANALYST PRo·cRA:M 
OPPORTUNITIES 
Medium-sized, fast growing management consulting firm Work with top executives from a select number of the world's largest and most successful companies to bring about major improvements in performance 
Regarded by our clients as the leading consulting firm focused on creating shareholder wealth Unique combination of strategic, organizational and financial disciplines 
Our Analyst Program 

Marakon's growth provides unmatched opportunities for learning, responsibility and advancement Specially designed comprehensive Analyst training 
and professional development program 
Interested in Pursuing a Career in Consulting? 
• Please see our literature in your office of career services for more information on the opportunities for responsibility and personal growth offered by Marakon's collegial and small-firm culture 
ND alum returns to teach 
By WENDY LOWDERMILK News Writer 
A former Notre Dame stu­dent is returning to his alma mater to teach and encourage more young people to get involved in computing. 
Peter Kogge has been named the Ted H. McCourtney profes­sor of computer science and engineering at the University of Notre Dame. "Great!," said Kogge in reaction to the professorship. "It's a home­coming." 
Professor Kogge graduated from Notre Dame earning a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in 1968. 
"I always thought I'd go back to teaching... not this soon, but the opportunity arose and I am here," said Kogge, who has been teaching part time for the last 17 years. 
According to Provost Timothy O'Meara, Kogge has had a "distinguished career" and "being an alumni is a nat­ural fit." O'Meara is impressed with Kogge and believes that he will "move the University forward in research." 
Kogge comes to the univer­sity after 26 years with IBM where he was the technical leader on many major projects in high performance comput­ing. He holds a master's de­gree in systems and informa­tion sciences from Syracuse University, a doctorate in elec­trical engineering from Stanford, and has written two textbooks. 
Kogge also holds six patents and has disclosures on 18 other ideas filed with the U.S. patent office since 1988. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

To Apply: Please su_bmit cover letter, resume and transcript (copies accepted) Attention of: Grace Petffer, Analyst Recruiting Coordinator, Marakon Associates To: Career & Placement Services 
MINUTE PACKAGES 
or

By: Thursday, DECEMBER 8, 1994 Interviews: Janua~ 15, 1994; Students selected for interviews will be contacted December 19-21 1 MONTH/3 MONTH 
UNLIMITED PACKAGES

Note: Please mclude phone number for December 19-21 in your cover letter 
'·--·j
~ Olk<agt» Hair fitUing Co.~ 

.5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n-7946 
8 Sat~ 9 to 6 Sun. 11·5 




page 4 
Prevention 
continued from page I 
will then check your house dur­ing that time. At shift change, he then passes the log book on to the next officer." 
"Ideally, the house is being checked th'ree times a day," he said, "once on each shift." 
When the ground is clear, po­lice will usually walk around the house, Gherardi said, checking doors and windows for signs of any problems. 
"When there is snow on the ground," he said, "officers will not walk around the house but will instead check to see if foot­prints appear in the area sur­rounding the house." 
Gherardi added that if some­one was attempting to enter the house, hopefully neighbors would call the police. 
"Unfortunately, students may not know many of their neigh­bors because they haven't lived in the area for that long," he said. 
Gherardi also stressed the importance of letting police know if someone would be stopping by to pick up mail or newspapers or to check on the house. "That way if police find someone in the house, they know who is authorized to be there and who is not," he said. 
Students can also help to pro­

tect their houses and property 
by leaving lights on times while 
they are gone and by having a 
neighbor or someone trustwor­
thy in the area pick up their 
mail and newspaper. 
"It has never happened in 

South Bend," Gherardi said, 
"but there have been cases of 
houses being broken into while 
people were out of town that 
have been traced to cancella­
tion of mail or newspapers. It 
might not be the paperboy, but 
it might be his older brother." 
"The less people who know 

your house will be empty. the 
better." 
He added that it would be a 

good idea, if possible, to have someone shovel a path to the door or brush off the car if it snows. 
"The most important thing is to make it look like normal ac­tivity is taking place in the home," he said. 
Another way students can help protect their property is to remove valuables from their homes over Christmas break. 
Notre Dame Security offers free storage of valuables for off-campu!l students over the holidays. according to Lt. Irvin Sikorski.. 
"Its free and the hardest part is packing it up and bringing it in," Sikorski added. He also said the items should be boxed or packaged to ensure safe storage and to maximize stor­age space. 
Items may be dropped off on December 19 and 20 from 2 
p.m. to 5 p.m. each day. Students should come in by way of the D-6 parking lot. Items may be picked up January 16 to 20 during regu­lar business hours. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
Shaonon, 
Pitch the Fake ID! 
You're legal in New Orleans! 
·Happy 18th! 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, Kris, Meghan 
The Observer • NEWS 
Off Campus 
continued from page I 
vertising that you have new and valuable items in your home. 
"All a criminal has to do is drive down the street to see who got a new television or computer," he said. "It's better to break down the boxes and put them in with the rest of the trash." 
If your equipment is stolen, Gherardi said, you will have no chance of reclaiming it even if it is recovtJred if you don't have the serial numbers writ­ten down. 
"We have someone in the of­fice who checks the serial numbers of items that are taken to pawn shops," Gherardi said.· "In order to pawn something in South Bend, you have to show identi­fication. If the item turns up stolen, we know who had it." 

Saturday, 1lece111beiit 10t~ i17 t~e Lafortu11e Ballroo111 

Come see your vonte holiday clasSics, 
9:00pm Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer 10:0G pm National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation 
11:45 pm The Year Without aSanta Clause 
12:30 pm Scrooged 2:15am Frosty the Snowman 
2:45 am The Grinch Who Stole Christmas 
Popcorn and soda will be served. 
Everything babsolutely FREK 

Childers 
continued from page I 
claim to such power is the ability to kill the most people in the most efficient and most painful ways science allows." 
The main reason this needs to be done, according to Childers, is because permanent members threaten govern­ments less well off with suspension of project funding in their countries or other dis­reputable actions, unless the poorer nations accede to the actjons of the permanent mem­bers. 
Childers suggested that in the meantime, a watchdog agency should be created, not neces­sarily under UN auspices, to identify and document such cases, which he claimed hap­pens regularly. 
The biggest reform he offered was the direct elections of UN representatives to both the Security Council and the General Assembly. 
Childers said that arguments that the process would be too complicated were wrong, since 
Join us to discuss 
Wll:ltE"er 
HappQed -to 
lWIIIfrtllloll
'~W.,.eiJJogy7
with 

Fr. Tim ~cully, CSC 
of the Department·ofGoverrunent and International Relations and the Hesburgh Center for International Peace Studies. 
f1fonday, llecember S 
7:S0pm
Heenmn Hmll Hommons 
Refreshments to Follow. ••ri 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
• 
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 

• 
TWO BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE 

• 
WASHER AND DRYER IN FACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT • 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 232-8256 
Monday, December 5, 1994 
India holds elections for 900 million in their parliamentary elections. 
It could follow that the world could handle elections of only seven times that amount. 
Childers spent 22 years as a civil servant to the UN and served as senior advisor to the UN Director-General for devel­opment. 
He has is the author of sever­al books that deal with the role of the UN in various global issues. 
Mission 
continued from page I 

at the Fort Wayne diocesan office. She served for 11 years on the General Council, when she traveled to Bangladesh, Brazil and Africa to meet other sisters and hear their con­cerns. 
"Prior to arriving at Saint Mary's five years ago, I com­pleted a graduate program in Christian Spiritual Guidance in Washington, D.C.," Schultz said. 



Monday, December 5, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Holocaust survivor Injured whale strays Stampede to speak on joy of life into Delaware River causes 
Marine Mammal Stranding Unit 
in Brigantine, N.J. 
death of 4 

The whale appeared to be lethargic and could be hungry, By DARA SHARIF Schoelkopf said from a police Associated Press boat. He said it appeared to be about a year old. TRENTON, N.J. 
The whale was near the One exit was locked and an­Philadelphia Navy Base and other all but hidden at the generally moving south. nightclub where four youths 
"That's a good sign. If it con­were trampled to death in a tinues moving in this direction, panic-driven stampede toward it could make it back to open the front door, authorities said water and possibly survive," Sunday. Schoelkopf said. Hundreds of partygoers 
Officials discouraged would­squeezed into a single, narrow be whale watchers, warning stairwell trying to escape a boat and helicopter operators brawl at the second-story club they could face $25,000 fines, early Saturday. At least 21 
. imprisonment and seizure of people were taken to the their vessels if they came closer hospital, most with bruises than about a quarter mile. and sprains. Right whales are the rarest of A second exit was accessible the great whales with a popula­only through the men's bath­tion of about 350 in the North room and had to be kicked Atlantic. They grow to up to 55 open because it was locked, feet in length. The Philadelphia prosecutor Michael Lapolla whale is about 20 feet to 25 feet said. Only a few patrons used long. that exit. A third exit at the rear of the building was virtually useless, he said. 
"No one would have been able to find it," he said. "There were no directions from the dance floor." 
Authorities were considering filing manslaughter charges against Fernando Bravo, owner of the El Balcon club, Lapolla said. 
"Overcrowding, alcohol being served to minors ... (and) the lack of working exits" could play a part in charges, he said. 
Telephone calls Sunday to El Balcon club in Elizabeth went unanswered. There was no lo­cal directory listing for Bravo. 

Are you interested in a position on the Notre 
Dame campus next summer (June 26 to 
August 5) as a Youth Coordinator for the 
NCAA National Youth Sports Program? 
The position provides room and board 
on campus, three hours of academic credit, 
and a tuition stipend of $1200. Each 
coordinator will be in charge of a group of 
twenty 10-to 16-year old kids from 
economically disadvantaged backgrounds in 
our local community. These 10 positions are 
part of Notre Dame's overall Summer Service 
Program. Call Sue Cunningham at 1-7867. 


By KATHY LATTANZI 
News Writer 
A unique perspective of the Holocaust will be given from the point of view of a Schindler Jew. Tonight, Zev Kedem will be speaking on "Schindler's List: A Survivor Celebrates Life." 
Kedem, whose father died when he was very young and who was left in the care of his mother. will discuss the cele­bration and appreciation of life. Having been separated from his mother during the Holocaust and not seeing her again until 1985 affected him greatly. 
He will also be discussing his experiences with hate and prejudice and how they relate to the world today. 
After being sent to Auschwitz at the age of 8, Kedem was forced to live in several differ­ent concentration camps before he was rescued by Oskar Schindler. 
Kevin Klau, a Student Union Board member, is responsible for bringing Kedem to Notre Dame. 
"We became interested when the movie [Schindler's List] came out." stated Klau. 
The events of the Holocaust were a major factor in shaping Kedem's views on life because he was captured at such a young age, according to Klau. 
"He brings our attention back to the events of World War II and the Holocaust," Klau said. "Although his main message is one of appreciation." 
Kedem will be speaking tonight at 7:30 at Washington Hall. Tickets are available for $2 at the La Fortune Information Desk and tonight 


Knott girls at the races! 
GIVEME A BREAK! 
~SPRING BREAK 

Hang out in: 
0 @ffJq]@([)q] 
o~(j)(f)!JaJ rPfflwiff@ O~affJqJ@ 0 (])ffJ (J]ffJ (j]JffJ ~ Of}!Jo UlJIJ@ifj~ 
Call New Horizons Travel "Your Party Planners" 

(800)639,4674 or (219)273,4934 51529 Bittersweet Rd., Granger, IN Call our 24 hour hotline for the latest specials: (219)277-9749 
ByDAVEIVEY 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
An injured right whale that took a wrong turn ended up in the Delaware River, swimming in slow circles as rescuers Sunday tried to steer it back to­ward the Atlantic. 
The young mammal, which may have been separated from its mother, strayed north into Delaware Bay instead of mov­ing south for its winter migra­tion. 
The whale's head was bleed­ing from an apparent run-in with a boat during its 80-mile trek from the mouth of the bay at Lewes, Del., to Philadelphia, where it was first spotted Saturday. 
"Or it could have been hit out in the ocean, possibly resulting in some disorientation. That may be why it's here," said Bob Schoelkopf, director of the 


Information Meeting: 
Dec. 5 (Mon.) 6:30 -7:00 pm Center for Social Concerns 
Application Deadline February 8 
$1500.00 SCHOLARSHIP (ND Students only) Eight weeks of service work puring the summer 
In cities of ND Alumni Clubs across the US 
Come and find out what SSPs are all about 
..----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------­
CAMPUSES 
page 6 Monday, December 5, 1994 
Presence of ROTC questioned at Arizona 
By ZOE MARIN 
Assistant Camp05<'s Editor 
A student organization at the University of Arizona is creat­ing an uproar over the pres­ence of HOTC within the univer­sity's education system. The group, called the Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors (CCCO) is planning a possible movement that would challenge the Reserve Officers Training Corps presence on campus. 
"The CCCO is looking to help people get out of the military and lind alternatives. We are looking to demilitarize schools because violence and militarism are antithetical to education," said Sam Diener, a spokesman for CCCO, to the university's student newspaper, the Arizona Daily Wildcat. 
The Bisexual Gay and Lesbian Association is backing up the CCCO and their movement due to what they feel are discrimi­nating policies of ROTC. Diener said that homosexuals and per­sons with disabilities are not hired. 
"The University of Arizona is clearly and overtly violating their own discrimination pol­icy," said Diener. "They cannot reconcile the ROTC and a non­discrimination policy." 
The CCCO is further backed up by a few local faith organizations, including the Catholic Newman Center and the Quaker Organization. 
"Compared to other coun­tries. our military is a huge empire. It could be down sized considerable," said UA senior Rob Praxton, a Newman ,Center member. 
Diener further questioned the 

Anti-gay bomb threat made at Ball State 
BY MARCY DINIUS CampusP.s Editor 
A computer lab technician at Ball State University in Muncie, Ind. recently discovered a bomb threat left on a computer termi­nal from a campus Christian group that threatened to plant a bomb unless university offi­cials dealt with the issue of homosexuality on campus. 
According to university po­lice, the message appeared on a computer terminal in the stu­dent center computer cluster with threats against the cam­pus and criticisms of the uni­versity for its stand on gay and lesbian issues. 
Police have yet to determine any suspects in the case and would not comment on where or when the bomb was to be planted or what the university intends to do regarding homo­sexual issues. 
Computer lab technician Wil Adams felt that the message was directed toward him, since it mentioned "key players" in­volved in on-going anti-homo­sexual events that have oc­curred at the school. 
Adams. who is homosexual, said that he had been the victim of harassment during the past month, including vandalism reading "gay sin" on the door of his residence and over 100 copies of anti-homosexual let­ters found in the computer lab. 
As a result, Adams stated to the Ball State Daily News that he is not only scared at work, but also at home. ''I'm con­stantly nervous and looking over my shoulder and fearing for my life." 

Tulane wins Supreme Court suit against animal activists 
NEW OHLEANS (AP) -Ani­mal rights activists challenging the treatment of monkeys used for medical research were not surprisfld that they lost an ap­peal to the U.S. Supreme Court on Monday. 
The court, without comment, let stand rulings that threw out a lawsuit filed by animal protection groups' against the federal government and Tulane University. 
At issue was whether Tulane officials were entitled to have the case transferred from a Louisiana state court to federal court. where it was dismissed. 
"They're throwing us out on procedural grounds. They never allowed us to call the bio­medical industry to task," said Peggy Woodward. the attorney for the groups-People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. International Primate Protection League and Louisiana in Support of Ani­mals. 
The 13-year legal dispute was the basis for a 1991 Supreme Court decision in which the jus­tices ruled that a federal agency should not have been allowed to transfer the case to federal court. 
But Tulane later was allowed to do just that, which the ani­mal rights groups contend was illegal. Their appeal said the university wrongly was consid­ered a "person" authorized to obtain such transfers when sued over work done for the federal government. 
Government lawyers urged the justices to reject the groups' appeal, saying that federal courts consistently have treated corporations and other entities as "persons" under the federal law at issue. . 
"It's been an uphill battle from the beginning," Woodward said. "We knew it would have a difficult time of it because the animals can't speak for themselves and it's hard to persuade the courts to hear from concerned people on their behalf." 
The dispute dates to 1981, when Alex Pacheco, then a George Washington University student, said the research facil­ity where he worked as a vol­unteer did not provide suffi­cient food and water, sanitation or veterinary care for 17 macaque monkeys. 
Only two of the original group of 17 monkeys remain the sub­ject of the case. Five were moved to the San Diego Zoo and 10 have died or been killed. 
In a federally funded project at its Silver Spring, Md., labora­tory, the Institute for Behavioral Research was studying the ability of monkeys to use their limbs after nerves were severed. 
Maryland police seized the monkeys in late 1981 and the National Institutes of Health took custody of them. The mon­keys ended up at Tulane University's Delta Regional Primate Research Center in Covington. 
In an attempt to establish dia­logue about the situation, Adams had recently talked to different campus Christian leaders regarding the issue, though he has no suspicions as to who ·was responsible for the threats. 
Adams instead assumes that the messages have been left by an individual acting separately from any Christian groups in an effort to make the Christian as well as homosexual and bisexu­al communities look bad. 
Adams further stated that homosexuality is usually ac­cepted by the campus and that a small group can make it ap­pear that Ball State is an anti­homosexual university. 
Daily News Editor Sarah Shrode contributed to this arti­cle. 
More schools to offer direct student loans 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
Education Department added 
346 schools to the list of those 
already offering federal loans 
directly to students. 
That brings to 1,495 the number of schools in the pro­gram, representing 40 percent of the total loan volume, according to Education Secretary Hichard Riley. 
The federal government guarantees about $18 billion in student loans issued under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Hiley said the direct­lending program will save tax­payers $4.3 billion over five years that would have other­wise gone to lenders for insur­ance fees. 
Under direct lending, the fed­eral government makes the loans to students through schools. eliminating the need for students to go through banks and other private lenders. 
The federal government has been phasing in the direct-loan program, beginning at 104 col­leges in the 1994-95 school year. Riley said he has a list of 500 schools waiting to join. 
As part of the program, bor­rowers with low incomes can choose a 25-year payback plan with monthly payments of be­tween 4 percent and 15 per­cent of their salaries. After 25 years of repayment, any remaining debt would be for­given. 
Others could choose a 30­year payback plan, or the tra­ditional10-year loan. 

purpose of a public university. in which "killing" is not encour­aged. 
"If an organized crime unit, a gang or the enemy du jour wanted to sponsor scholarships, I don't think UA would say, 'OK, great!' when the U.S. doesn't." said Diener. 
Diener also pointed out that the faculty employed by the ROTC program are not Ph.D.'s, and the curriculum is not re­viewed by the UA because it is set up by the Pentagon. 
The issue of the ROTC pro­gram as well as the CCCO's in­volvement were sparked last October when a helicopter landed on the UA campus to publicize the upcoming football game and help encourage the military to buy football tickets. 
"There is a normalization and a virtual acceptance of the mili­tary by our society," said Father De Las Casas. the Catholic chaplain of the Newman Center. "Why do we take it for granted't" 
Reporter Kelly Canright of the Arizona Daily Wildcat con­tributed to this article. 
• Bush breaks ground for Texas A&M library COLLEGE STATION, Texas (AP)-With a crowd of a thousand looking on, George and Barbara Bush broke ground Wednesday for the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum Center at Texas A&M University. "We hope in some small way this library and school will give something back to help prepare our children and the generations to come for the exciting challenges that lie ahead," Bush said. Several former cabinet members, most of the Bush family. including Texas Gov.-elect George W. Bush and family, and about 1,000 others watched as the former president and first lady grabbed shiny silver shovels to turn the ceremonial dirt. The library and school of government will be constructed on a 90-acre site on the western edge of the Texas A&M campus, about 90 mlles northwest of Houston and just across the road from the university's swine, goat and sheep research centers. School officials said about $71 million has been raised so far for the $82 million complex. The complex is scheduled to be complet­ed by early 1997. The library will house 40,000 objects, 36 million pages of docu­ments and about a million photographs from Bush's public career. Philanthropist to give Miami $2 million  
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) -A philanthropist has decided to reinstate a $2 million gift to the University of Miami that he with­drew because the school newspaper printed an ad questioning th1~ Holocaust. "I woke up three times last night and that's what my brain told me to do," Sanford L. ZitT said Thursday. "This horrendous inci­dent is behind us." Ziff, founder of Sunglass Hut, was furious at the university be­cause the school's president refused to force Miami Hurricane edi­tors to yank a $288 advertisement. The ad, placed by a self-described "revisionist," questioned whether the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum In Washington, D.C., offers proof that Jews were gassed by the Na~is during World War II. The day the April 12 ad ran. Zill' withdrew the $2 million do­nation slated for the school's art gallery and cancer center. Technician shot at Utah medical school  
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -A man was shot recently at the University of Utah medical school and a woman who worked in the next lab was arrested. Ping Yu, 31, was listed in serious but stable condition after surgery. Qi Zhang, 31, the victim's girlfriend. was jailed for inves­tigation of attempted aggravated murder, carrying a concealed weapon and possession of a deadly weapon with inltmt to assault. Hospital spokesman John Dwan said the two technicians workfld in adjacent labs at the medical school. Authorities said six shots were fired. Yu was wounded in the abdomen and groin. A witness said he saw a woman drop a gun on the hallway floor outside the lab, then squat on the ground as she sobbed. University Police Chief Wayne Shepherd said he found a loaded gun on the floor when he arrived at the scene. Georgetown pranksters steal skeleton  
Pranks are a fundamental element of college life, even in Catholic universities. At Georgetown, an unknown number of people hanged a full­sized human skeleton from the belltower of the Healy "Old Building" on Halloween evening after stealing it earlier from the Science Building, which houses both the biology and anthropology departments. Before Georgetown Security learned of belltower's new resident, the skeleton reportedly fell out of its noose into a gutter below, out of view of the walkways nearby. Security found the skeleton the next day, but did not realize that it was property of the university until last week. when it was claimed by the department of biology. Briefwritten by Edward lmbus, Campuses Writer  




VIEWPOINT 
Monday, December 5, 1994 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARv's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Luca< Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager......................Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor...... , ........................ Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Ditector...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the Students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­
~ 

tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, 
CliKTONl 

Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free: expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Catechism: Gay acts 'intrinsically disordered' 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• nontu:s~mn 
• Qm:rn: Of TH£. DAY 
''Beware! To touch these wires is instant death. Anyone found doing so will be prosecuted." 
-Sign at a railroad station 


The December 1st lecture at De
r Bartolo on "Gays, Lesbians and the Law," reflects a continuing campus interest in the status of homosexuals. Other Observer items confirm that inter­est. Unfortunately, the discussions do 
not often reflect an accurate under­standing of the teachings of the Church on this subject. 
"The Roman Catholic Church is now the counterculture," says Father John F. 
Charles Rice 


Harvey, director of Courage, a support group for Catholic men and women­and their families-who try to live chaste lives in accord with Catholic teaching on homosexuality. The coun­terculture character of the Church on homosexuality is evident even at Notre Dame. While the Administration rightly denies formal recognition to homosexual student groups, an informal but perva­sive orthodoxy or dissent leads many to regard this Church teaching as arbi­trary, oppressive and not binding on individual Catholics or Notre Dame. It may be useful here to set the record straight. 
First, the Church's teaching is not merely advisory. Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the Apostolic Constitution on Catholic uni­versities issued by John Paul II in 1990, provides that "the institutional fidelity of the £Catholic] -university to the Christian message includes a recognition of and adherence to the teaching authority of the Church in matters of faith and morals. Catholic members of the univer­sity community are also called to a per­sonal fidelity to the church which all this implies." With respect to a teaching of the "ordinary Magisterium," not infalli­set you free' (Jn 8:32), the attempt has the Lord's Cross the difficulties they may bly defined, Catholics are still obliged been made to tell the inhabitants of this encounter from their condition. "to adhere to it with religious assent." continent that moral evil, deviation, a "2359 Homosexual persons are called Catechism of the Catholic Church, No. kind of slavery, is the way to liberation, to chastity. By the virtues of self-mastery 
892. In his September 16, 1987, address thus distorting the true meaning of the that teach them inner freedom, at times to the American bishops the Pope said, family. The relationship of two men or by the support of disinterested friend­"there is a tendency on the part of some two women cannot constitute a true ship, by prayer and sacramental grace, Catholics to be selective in their adher­family; still less can one grant such a they can and should gradually and res­ence to the -Church's moral teachings. It union the right to adopt children who olutely approach Christian perfection." is sometimes claimed that. dissent from lack a family. These children suffer The work of Courage reflects the the Magisterium is totally compatible great danger, grave harm, because in hopeful yet practical character of this with being a 'good Catholic' and poses these 'substitute families' they do not Church teaching. Founded by New no obstacle to the reception of the have a father and mother, but two York's Terence Cardinal Cooke in 1980 Sacraments. This is a grave error... " fathers or two mothers. This is danger­and now sponsored by the Archdiocese 
Second, the Church teaching here is ous." Address, Feb. 20, 1994. (Emphasis of New York, Courage has 27 chapters neither arbitrary nor oppressive. It in original) in the United States and Canada. Prayer begins by affirming that: "Although the It would be a mistake to regard and meditation open each Courage particular orientation of the homosexual Church teaching here as essentially neg­meeting, followed by discussion and person is not a sin, it is a more or less ative. On the contrary, it offers a hope­reflection on the 12 steps of the strong tendency ordered toward intrin­filled affirmation of the human person. Alcoholics Anonymous approach. "The sic moral evil; and thus the inclination "Today," said the CDF in 1986, "the psychology," says Father Harvey, "is itself must be seen as an objective disor­Church provides a badly needed context that some people can change, and if der." Congregation for the Doctrine of for the care of the human person when they can't, they can still lead a chaste the Faith (CDF), Pastoral Care of life. The theology is that you've got to Homosexual Persons (1986), No. 3. avoid this kind of activity. You can still 
acts," new lead a good Christian life as a celibate
On "homosexual the ' ''The relationship of two 
Catechism describes them as "intrinsi­person."
men or two women can­
cally disordered. They are contrary to Father Harvey quotes a Courage mem­the natural law. They close the sexual not constitute a true family; still ber: "Courage offers...the answer. The act to the gift of life. They do not pro­less can one grant such a union inner peace, the deep self-acceptance ceed from a genuine affective and sexu­and the self-restraint that the choice of
the right to adopt children who 
al complementarily. Under no circum­chastity imposes are far more enduring
lack a family."'

stances can they be approved." No. and self-affirming than the momentary 2357. Thus, when the European gratifications of self-indulgence..... Parliament resolved that homosexual I'm...extremely happy-and relieved-to couples should be allowed to marry and she refuses to consider the person as a have the opportunity to work at spiritual adopt children, John Paul II replied that 'heterosexual' or a 'homosexual' and self-growth in the context of a group of the resolution "does not merely defend insists that every person has a funda­gay men who lead consecrated lives in people with homosexual tendencies by mental identity: a creature of God, and the service of the Lord and their fellow rejecting unjust discrimination in their by grace, His child and heir to eternal men. It's a lot harder to live a celibate regard. The Church agrees with that­life." Pastoral Care, No. 16. As the life without emotional support. Courage indeed, she supports and approves it.... Catechism states: offers that support." What is not morally acceptable is the "2358 [M]en and women who have Courage (424 W. 34th St., N.Y., N.Y., legal approval of homosexual activity. deep-seated-homosexual tendencies.... 10001; (212) 421-0426), welcomes Being understanding towards the sinner do not choose their homosexual condi­inquiries from Notre Dame students, who is unable to free himself from this tion; for most of them it is a trial. They faculty and others. In this area, as else­tendency is not the same as lessening must be accepted with respect, compas­where, the only fully coherent approach the requirement of the moral norm.... sion, and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust will be found in the moral and social Without a basic awareness of the moral discrimination in their regard should be teachings of the Catholic Church. law, human life and human dignity are avoided. These persons are called to ful­Professor Rice is on the Law School subject to decadence and ruin. fill God's will in their lives and, if they staff. His column appears every Forgetting Christ's words, 'the truth will are Christians, to unite to the sacrifice of Monday. 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, December 5, 1994 
• PEACE ON EARTH 
Dr. King's thoughts and words come to life 
In the Fall of 1950, Martin Luther King, Jr., a student at Crozer Theological Seminary in Chester, Pennsylvania, wrote an essay entitled, "An Autobiography of Religious Development." King recounted his life experiences and the origins of his reli­gious faith emphasizing the supporting and nurturing influences of his family, church, and community. Now forty-four years later, I want to present some of 
Penny Russell 

the ideas that King discussed in this lit­tle-known essay to the Notre Dame com­munity. 
Originally handwritten on light green, lined notebook paper, it is one of King's first statements on the significance of religion in his life. He began the essay admitting to "anti capitalist feelings" because he witnessed hungry people having to wait for food in bread lines during the Great Depression. Then King introduced his affectionate family that consisted of his father, mother, sister, brother, and a maternal grandmother, and he underscored the love and care they had for one another. "I have never experienced the feeling of not having the basic necessities of life" King recalled. "These things were always provided by a father who always put his family first. My father has always been a real father." 
Then Martin Luther King turned to the outside world and described the segre­gated African-American neighborhood of Auburn Avenue in Atlanta where he spent his childhood in a middle class, "wholesome" community where most people were religious. "I can well remember that all of my childhood play­mates were regular Sunday School goers," he wrote "not that I chose them on that basis, but because it was very difficult to find playmates in my commu­nity who did not attend Sunday School." 
At this point King highlighted the sig­nificance of his family and community to the story of his religious development. "It is quite easy for me to think of a God of love mainly because I grew up in a family where love was central and where lovely relationships were ever so present." He continued "It is quite easy for me to think of the universe as basi­cally friendly mainly because of my uplifting hereditary and environmental circumstances." King was optimistic about the possibility of progress in race relations by the time he was attending Crozer. in spite of childhood experiences of racism and discrimination. 
King recounted his first encounter with racism in this essay. When he was six years old he lost his best friend, a white boy of his own age. The boy came to King and told him that his father had ordered him not to play with Martin anymore. King was shocked by the inci­dent and sought for an explanation from his own parents. "We were at the dinner table when the situation was discussed, and here for the first time I was made aware of the existence of the race prob­lem," he remembered. His parents dis­cussed the problems and insults they had endured and the wounded little boy made a momentous decision: "I was greatly shocked, and from that moment on I was determined to hate every white person. As I grew older and older this feeling continued to grow." King's par­ents reminded him that it was his Christian duty to love all people and King responded by asking, "How can I love a race of people lwho} hated me and who had been responsible for breaking me up with one of my best childhood friends?" Morehouse College in Atlanta provided the solution for him. 

'''lwas greatly shocked, and from that moment on I was determined to hate every white person. As I grew older and older this feeling con­tinued to grow.'" 
King recalled, "I did not conquer these anti-White feelings until I entered col­lege and came into contact with white students through working in interracial organizations." 
It was at Morehouse College that Martin Luther King realized he would enter the clergy. In this essay he revealed that his decision to become a minister "was an inner urge calling me to serve humanity." And King credited his father's influence as a determining factor in his decision. "This is not to say that he ever spoke to me in terms of being a minister, but my admiration for him was the great moving factor; He set forth a noble example that I didn't mind following." 
In the conclusion to his essay King proclaimed the central values of his life and his future work. "At present I still feel the affects of the noble moral and ethical ideals that I grew up under," he wrote. "They have been real and pre­cious to me, and even in moments of theological doubt I could never turn away from them. Even though I have never had an abrupt conversion experi­ence, religion has been real to me and closely knitted to life. In fact the two cannot be separated; religion for me is life." 
All quotations are from "An Autobiography of Heligious Development" published in Carson, Luker, and Russell, eds., "The Papers of Martin Luther King, Jr., Volume I: Called to Serve", January 1929-June 1951 (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1992). 
Penny A. Russell is a Lecturer in the History Department Editor's Note: This is the first in a five-part series on Dr. Martin Luther King. Jr. 

• GUEST COLUMN 
Measuring success under the burden of a ND education 
What burden? Graduation from here is a door opener to opportunity. It pro­vides a measurable advantage over our entire professional lives. Just ask the interviewers who come on campus. So where's the burden? 
In some cases. it can begin as early as your first day on the job. For instance, in unrealistic measurements or in a no­holds-barred competition among peers, it's not simply being unprepared that's the problem. If the question was learn­ing, there would be little reason for this article. 
It's not that you can't learn, but that there is little motivation to excel if the rules contradict a personal ethic that has been nurtured since birth and brought to a level of refinement through shared experienees with fellow students during these four years. 
For example, what would you say about an executive for a national recruiter who was quoted as saying "And we look to hire people who are 
... insecure and thus driven by their inse­curity... ~ Wait a minute. Haven't you just spent most of your life gaining the skills and values to overcome insecuri­ty? Maybe there are employers out there where this education and your value system are a mismatch. 
Then there's the decision by another top executive to divorce his wife when he took a bigger job because "he didn't want family stuff getting in the way of the biggest job of his life." Maybe there are also bosses for whom your education and value system could create an unten­able working relationship if that exag­gerated expectation was extended to you. 
Recently, an Inside Column in The Observer pointed out that a case compe­tition had failed to weigh the ethical implications of how the teams competed. The conclusion, "Notre Dame has always held its students to higher stan­dards.... " Let's add situations to the list where your education and value system may not thrive. 
There can easily be a burden to your Notre Dame education when rewards are high for abandoning or modifying values. Now, if that burden hadn't been planted before we ever met you or we tabled on ethics as a highly publicized but equally isolated required course, the burden could be greatly lessened. As long as we had separated ethics, why couldn't you selectively apply them as well. Or, if there was no personal mea­surement for right and wrong, why not selectively apply moral judgment where your success won't be affected. 
Fortunately, neither of these will prob­ably work for you. And, you may pay a price in recognition, in promotion or in dollars. However, the alternative can be much worse, leaving those who contra­dict themselves with life long problems leading to despair and even abuse. As another alumnus put it in the Spring, "Sometimes adhering to this ethic even gets you a dollar or two in your pay­check. And, sometimes, it gets you fired." 
Richard Huether 
So how do we deal with the issue of taking a Notre Dame· education to the workplace? Here are four questions you might want to ask yourself when evalu­ating a job opportunity: 
1. What do I need to feel successful? 
Look beyond salary and benefits. Every day for the next forty plus working years you are going to ask "Am I satisfying myself?" and expect a thumbs-up answer. You're already spending a great deal of time, effort and money tooling yourself up for the challenge. Isn't it worth spending some time now deciding how you will measure the answer? 
Fortunately, you couldn't be in a bet­ter place to explore the question. Use your classmates as sounding boards for your thoughts and expect that they'll do the same. And, whether you are fresh­men or seniors, the sooner you start the better. In my ten years here, I don't think I've met a second semester senior who didn't wish for more time to share these kind of thoughts with classmates. 
Also, spend quiet time listening to yourself. You've spent up to sixteen years preparing to contribute to society. Sixteen years! Don't you think spending a few hours searching for what you need to feel successful makes sense? It's fair to say most graduates would agree these kind of discussions and examination were the greatest take-away from their Notre Dame education. 

2. 
What's the mission? What's the measurement? Is there conflict between your measurement and the measure­ment of the job? Look around in an interview. Are you like the people who get promoted or those they send to rep­resent them in a campus interview? Are your questions and opinions encouraged or does it seem they are only interested if you can be molded into their plan? Does their mission or direction include priorities that motivate you? If th.ere are some "no" answers, proceed with cau­tion. 

No one should expect perfection, but failing to recognize differences and not attempting to reconcile serious ones can be destructive. The summer '93 Notre Dame Magazine carried the following quote from a '73 graduate when his measurement system started to give him warning signs. "I realized that I would not be able to do my job well and be a father, that I would not be able to do that job well too. I worked through the thought process, and it boiled down to 'What is most important to me?"' He decided he had to change jobs. 

3. 
What motivates your peers in the workplace? From that same article, another domer reflected, "When I think back on Notre Dame, I think of it as one of those places that is different. There must be something about it, that they get all these good people who go there, so I think back fondly on it as an institu­tion that attracted those sorts of peo­ple." And, a '93 graduate remarked in The Observer "The mystique alluded to in Notre Dame literature no doubt incor­porates the harmony felt among the majority of students and faculty." 


There are remarkable relationships between the people here. The president lives in a regular dorm as do athletes. Upperclassmen care for freshman. Pain is consoled, victories celebrated with love and honesty. It's fair to say that many of your peers in the workplace will have had quite a different experi­ence. The adage, "It is not enough that I win, you must lose" lingers. Believing one can live by a victory-at-any-cost ethic at work and a more genuine one at other times outlasted the eighties. Check for tension in the workplace. Is the atmosphere collegial or competitive? If competitive, is there respect and hon­esty? Recognize your needs in relation­ship to these answers. 
4. What are the expectations of those you serve? One of the frequently forgot­ten changes graduation brings is the role change from buyer to seller. For up to sixteen years, you and your family have been education buyers either through taxes or tuition. Now the table turns. Whether supplying a product or service, for profit or non-profit, in a large corporation or small foreign mis­sion, you are the supplier or seller and it's the other person's measurement that establishes your value. 
Several years ago, I met an excellent writer. He wrote beautiful literary pieces that pleased him and others greatly. But, when it came to commer­cial writing, he had great difficulty sac­rificing his style for the desires of the client. Eventually the pain became too great and he opted to leave the commer­cial writing field for other employment and pursue writing as a hobby. 
Can you use your knowledge and skills to serve others who may measure you by standards unrelated to your level of knowledge? Are these measurements fair? Are they honest? Can you earn their respect or is your position being used to.disguise a poor or even mislead­ing application of your knowledge? 
Does this mean you should be pre­pared to lower expectations for success? No. But you need to know that success requires the ability to measure the opportunity as well as academic qualifi­cation. You have just previewed some of the challenges the opportunity presents. Getting a head start on answering them, with your other academic voyagers, would seem to enhance the probability of success however high you may set your expectations. 
Richard J. Huether '55 is an author. lecturer and consultant having serlled 36 years as an executive with GE corpo­rate marketing. He also begins his tenth year as lecturer and mentor at the University of Notre Dame addressing graduate and undergraduate courses in both marketing and management. He can be reached at(518) 382-5557. 


~-----~~ -------------~-----~-----~---~----­
ACCE-NT 
Monday, December 5, 1994 
• fRESH THOUGHTS 
'Tis the season for 

I I 
I I I I I I This holiday season's movies have hit the screen with little j fanfare and low audience approval (save A Miracle On 34th j j 
bad movies I 
Street and Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction ). The remaining 
j
movies lack the creative edge and clever plot that would set 
j
them apart from the "same stuff different movie" syndrome that actors and directors become trapped. Now in the theaters, the majority of the films are merely a 
"l
waste of money and time. Why do I say this? It is not because I have no life and have seen every movie currently showing, Dave Griffith including the Swan Princess. Accent Columnist 
No, it is because through my vast knowledge of movies and ------­actors, I can determine the merit of a movie by simply knowing two things: One, who stars in it, and two, its title. 
So I have come to the conclusion that I want to free the world of useless films. I want to become the champion of the average hard-working born in the U.S.A. movie-goer and become a kind of cinematic Ralph Nader. 
No:-v using my intuitive powers I will save you many boring dates and money by weedmg out some of the bad movies this holiday season. (Keep in mind I have not seen any of the following movies.) 
1. The Lion King . One of Disney's most successful animated motion pictures to date was released earlier this year and has made mega-bucks off small children and adults alike. From lunch boxes to pencil pouches tot-shirts. Now after a good r~n on the big screen, the thoughtful people at Disney have re-released The Lion Kmg so that everyone who did not get a chance to see it the first time can have it shoved down their throats... I mean so that everyone can share in this heart warm­
ing tale. 
In my opinion, The Lion King is like Bambi except with African animals playing the major roles. A baby animal will be born and all the creatures of the area will to see the new baby. The baby will meet new friends like Thumper the rabbit and Violet the skunk from Bambi . Except here, the baby lion will have friends like ~unjab, the Caribou. Then, in a Fox and the Hound plot twist the lion, upon com­mg of age, must choose between his natural born instincts to kill Caribou and his friendship with Punjab. 
Unfortunately, the lion's father will be gunned down by a hunter, strapped to the hood of a Jeep, and become a nice trophy on the wall of someone's den. Hence making his son the Lion King. The End. 
. Everyone will cry and say how touching the movie is and go out and buy their 
kids every kind of Lion King paraphernalia possible. . I give it two stars for an ingenious plot and good casting. 
2. Interview With the Vampire, starring Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt as Vampires who are struggling with the acceptance of their new urges for blood. They are ostracized by their families and spit on by the public. 
In a stirring scene, Tom Cruise is confronted by his mother. Struggling to under­stand her son she demands that he tell her the truth about his vampiric tendencies. To which he replies, "You can't handle the truth!" 
. Confused and torn by his urges, he reaches out for help through a series of clas­sified ads and finds council in an equally as confused vampire Brad Pitt. Pitt and Cruise .s~art a support group for bloodsuckers like themselves and gain national recogmtwn. The two are asked to appear on a Barbara Walters special in order for people to understand their plight. Cruise and Pitt are interviewed by Walters {played by Christian Slater) and when asked to give some proof of their vampiric nature they feast on Ms. Walters on national television. The End. 
A convincing performance by Cruise. The beginning was a bit slow, and the blood and gore were senseless at times but the ending salvaged the movie. Half a star. 
3. The Pagemaster starring MacCaulay Culkin is a definite must see. The movie begins with the child star Culkin being trapped at night in a public library by a pair of escaped house burglars who want revenge for sending them to the big house. The movie suddenly slips into an animated adventure when Culkin drops acid mis­~akin~ it for a .wint-0-Green Lifesaver, and begins a wild hour and a half long trip ~~ which he h1des from the burglars among the book stacks, ultimately declaring himself the Pagemaster, ruler of all books and periodicals alike. 
When Culkin gets the munchies he becomes fed up with the burglars and with the help of his cloth and leather bound friends he sets up an elaborate system of traps for the burglars. Dropping unabridged dictionaries from the shelves onto the bungling convicts, catapulting all 26 volumes of the World Book encyclopedia onto the unwary criminals, and littering the floor with little golf pencils which the con­victs slip on and are knocked unconscious. 
When the library is opened in the morning the burglars are discovered and arrested. Culkin is found dead next to a smashed vending machine amid a heap of Host.ess snack cake wrappers. The End. This is truly one of the most intriguing movies of the year. The Pagemaster's struggle to survive in his own drug induced fantasy world rates as one of years ten best. If you liked Jacob's Ladder you will love The Pagemaster! I give it four stars! 
4. Junior starring Arnold Schwarzeneggar, Danny Devito, and Emma Thompson is ~n interesting male/female role reversal. Schwarzeneggar, the star of many an actiOn, and lately more comedy movies, plays a man who is artificially inseminated and becomes pregnant. The normally ripped superstud must break this news to his love interest played by Emma Thompson. In his second trimester. Schwarzeneggar undergoes a sonogram and it reveals that he will have a boy. 
When t~e big day arrives, the proud mom gives birth to a bouncing 200 pound Danny Devito. Schwarzeneggar miraculously survives the birth but dies of cardiac arrest upon seeing his balding baby boy wrapped in a blanket. The End. 
This is a touching movie in which Arnold ends the critics beliefs that he is not capable of doing dramas; 3/4 of a star. 
So there you have it. The low down on some of this holidays seasons blunders. Hopefully, these reviews save you a buck. I do make mistakes every once in awhile, and some of these movies might be about totally different things. If this is the case please let me know. 
~-------------------------------~ 
Experience in the real world 
By SHANNON FORBES 
Accent Writer 

How many Notre Dame students actu­ally graduate with the same major they chose to pursue their sophomore year? How many students wish they had an opportunity to see how their major actually applies to the real world? How many students find themselves getting nervous as graduation approaches­wondering if there were more they could have done to enhance their re­sumes? The answer to all those ques­tions-"too many." Fortunately for Notre Dame Students, the Extern pro­gram works to alleviate tension and uncertainty about post-graduation plans. 
Extern is a program where alumni sponsor students to work with them for a week during either October and Spring break. It allows students to learn about various career opportuni­ties and it allows alumni to keep in con­tact with their university. The program began in 1989 and continued for two years. It has now started up again because people feel it offers a great deal to both students and alumni. 
Although students who wish to partic­ipate in the Extern program must fill out an application, the process is only to help match students and alumni. "The application process is neither selective nor competitive. The point is to get to know as much about students' interests so that we can provide them with the best matches," said Rob Schuporsky, who helps organize the program. 
"While the program is open to all stu­dents, we especially encourage younger undergraduates to partake in the Extern program before they have to chose their major. Our program is open to all because it is an excellent learning experience and everyone has the right to learn?" said Schuporsky. For this reason, everyone who applies must commit to the program. 
Last fall break Carleigh Landers, a 
finance major who is in charge of 
recruiting alumni, went with three 
other people to work at Sanwa 
Securities in New York. She said "We 
had a great time. Anyone can read a job 
description or talk to people in the field 
they are interested in, but we experi­enced so much more." Landers saw the trading desk, the stock exchange, and was able to talk to many people who worked at the company. Landers says, "I was there for the environment and to see where my education at Notre Dame could take me." 
Students can participate in the pro­gram as many times as they want. Schuporsky, also a finance major, took advantage of this opportunity twice. He said "I really saw a difference between the pace in the classroom and in the real world. In class, students have time to sit and think. In the real world, many outside factors arise to which people must be able to quickly react.? 
The Extern program operates through the Student/Alumni Relations Group in the Main Building. Schuporsky said, "We try to find alumni from all major cities from New York to Los Angeles. Students must provide their own trans­portation, but sometimes the alumni provide the housing." Students select their top three choices of location and the program does its best to place stu­dents in one of their top two choices. 
Upon receiving the name of their assigned alumni, students _call the alum and the two exchange expectations of the week and make up a plan for how things will operate during the course of the week. Students usually shadow and follow the alum at work. 
Through participating in the Extern program, students are able to explore potential careers without any com­mitment. Extern provides opportunities that are not available after students graduate and enter the real world. The program benefits the alumni partici­pants as well. The alumni are able to return to their alma mater without going to campus. "They enjoy reliving old memories with current Notre Dame students. They like to hear about what has remained the same and what has 
-
changed." said Landers. 
Benefits of the program last for longer 
than the actual week. Schuporsky said 
"Many students keep in touch with their 
alum and anything really can happen. 
Contact with the alum is a means of ex­
posing oneself to the environment. 
What students get out of the program is 
really up to them. The value of the 
Extern program is limitless." 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 5, 1994 
• 4fl ROUND UP 

Cowboys and Steelers off to the playoffs 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 
Now that qualifying for the playoffs is out of the way, the Dallas Cowboys and Pittsburgh Steelers can think about some­thing bigger: home field in their conferences. 
The Cowboys, seeking to become the first team with three straight Super Bowl titles, clinched the NFC East on Sunday with a 31-19 victory at Philadelphia. Emmitt Smith rushed for 91 yards and two touchdowns as the Cowboys (11-2) didn't miss quarterback Troy Aikman in handing the Eagles their fourth successive defeat. 
But Dallas couldn't gain on the red-hot San Francisco 49ers, who routed Atlanta 50­14 as Steve Young accounted for five touchdowns. 
"For us to stay on pace with San Francisco, we have to win the next three," quarterback Rodney Peete said. "But this was a big win for us. It means a lot (clinching the division), but we still have three games to go. Our goal is to get back to the Super Bowl and win it. We're a step closer." 
Pittsburgh (1 0-3) secured at least a wild-card berth in the AFC and took the Central Division lead by routing Cincinnati 38-15. Bam Morris rushed for 108 yards and a pair of touchdowns and Rod Woodson returned one of Pittsburgh's two interceptions for a TD. 
The Steelers have won five straight for the first time since 1983, and moved one game in front of Cleveland, which lost to the New York Giants 16-13. 
"Right now, we're playing very well," All-Pro cornerback Woodson said. "This team is so different. You can't even com­pare it to our teams the last few years that lost in the first round." 
In other games, it was Denver 20, Kansas City 17 in overtime; Detroit 34, Green Bay 31; Arizona 30, Houston 12; Indianapolis 31, Seattle 19; New England 24, the New York Jets 13; Tampa Bay 26, Washington 21 and New Orleans 31, the Los Angeles Rams 15. 
At night, Buffalo played at Miami. 
On Monday night, the Los Angeles Raiders are at San Diego. 
The week's action began with Minnesota's 33-27 overtime win over Chicago on Thursday night. 
Cowboys 31, Eagles 19 
Peete did well in place of Aikman (sprained knee). com­pleting 10 of 17 passes for 172 yards. Michael Irvin had 117. yards and a touchdown on four receptions in the Cowboys' 14th successive NFC East victory. 
"It's nice to be able to show that we can win with three quarterbacks," Smith said. "It's a great feeling knowing you can count on every quarterback you have on the roster." 
Randall Cunningham finished 29 of 46 for 327 yards for the Eagles (7-6). 
Steelers 38, Bengals 15 
At Cincinnati, the Steelers' defense continued its domi­nance and the offense kept con­trol against the Bengals (2-11), holding the ball for 40 minutes. The Steelers held Jeff Blake, the AFC's leading passer, to a season-low 156 yards on 8-for­19 passing and sacked him five times, padding their total to 50. Kevin Greene added to his NFL sacks lead with two, giving him 14 1/2. 

"They opened up their offense and we opened up our defense," linebacker Greg Lloyd said. "This guy, he was like everybody else out there. They don't know where we're coming from." 
Giants 16, Browns 13 

At Cleveland, the Giants (6-7) won their third straight follow­ing a seven-game slide that came after three straight victo­ries as Brad Daluiso kicked a 33-yard field goal with 19 sec­onds to go. Daluiso, usually used only on kickoffs, made three field goals after David Treadwell was benched for missing a 37 -yarder in the first half. 
The Browns (8-4) could have clinched their first playoff berth since 1989, but committed turnovers on four of their first five second-half possessions. 
49ers 50, Falcons 14 

There were no fisticuffs between Deion Sanders and Andre Rison, as happened when the teams met in Atlanta in October. There were plenty of fireworks by San Francisco's offense and defense. 
The 49ers (11-2) forced five turnovers, leading to 17 points. Young threw for three TDs and ran for two in guiding San Francisco to its eighth consecu­tive victory. 
Young completed 22 of 33 
passes for 294 yards, shaking off an interception return for a touchdown by defensive end Chuck Smith that ended a string of 123 passes without being picked off. 
Broncos 20, Chiefs 17, OT 
At Kansas City, with John Elway sidelined with possible cartilage damage in his knee, Jason Elam kicked a winning 34-yard field goal for Denver (7-6), which suddenly is tied for second place in the AFC West after an 0-4 start. Hugh Millen engineered a 41-yard drive that set up the kick. 
The Chiefs (7 -6) tied it on Steve Bono's 62-yard TD pass to Willie Davis and a two-point conversion pass to Davis. Bono was playing for Joe Montana, out with a foot injury. 
Lions 34, Packers 31 
The host Lions (7-6) moved ahead of the Packers (6-7) in the NFC Central thanks to, who else, Barry Sanders. 
Sanders rushed 20 times for 188 yards and one touchdown. A 63-yard run by Sanders set up the go-ahead 1-yard TD dive by Derrick Moore with 9:02 left. Sanders broke his single-season record of 1,548 yards, set in 1991, during the run. 
"He's a great one," Green Bay coach Mike Holmgren said. "He's an awesome player, especially on the artificial turf field. No, he's a great player anywhere." 
Cardinals 30, Oilers 12 
At Houston, Buddy Ryan returned to where he was defensive coordinator last year and saw his offense pick apart the Oilers (1-12), losers of nine in a row. 
The previously dormant offense scored three touch­downs for Arizona (6-7), while the defense forced six turnovers. 
"We looked like a pro football team for the first time this year offensively," Ryan said. 
Colts 31, Seahawks 19 

At Seattle, the tragedy-strick­en Seahawks (5-8) couldn't stop Marshall Faulk, who went over 1,000 yards rushing for the sea­son with 129 yards. Indianapolis (6-7) recovered three fumbles and intercepted two passes. 
The Seahawks' third loss of the season to the Colts -two in regular season games and one in an exhibition game -came only three days after a traffic accident left defensive tackle Mike Frier paralyzed. Running back Chris Warren, injured in the crash. played and rushed for 81 yards, but the Seahawks lost right-handed quarterback Rick Mirer to a broken left thumb. 
Patriots 24, Jets 13 

The host Patriots (7 -6) won their fourth straight and moved ahead of the Jets (6-7) in the playoff race as Ricky Reynolds scored on an 11-yard intercep­tion return. 
A fake field goal that turned into a punt pinned the Jets at their 1. On third down from the 5, Boomer Esiason threw toward Ryan Yarborough on the left side. Reynolds cut in front, caught the ball and eased into the end zone for the Patriots' first defensive touch­down of the year. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classifieds 

cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
NOTICES $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS 10-6m-sat pandora's books NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 233-2342 cool stuff cool store  NEED HELP: FEMALE N.D. GRAOUATE OR LAW STUDENT TO HOUSE SIT WITH 17-YEAR OLD FEMALE. APPROX. 6 DAYS PER MONTH BEGINNING MID JANUARY. CALL 219-277-5762 ATIENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF­MOTIVATED Students. The  Looking for a male/ female room­mate in Castle Point. $ 280 + utili­ties, For Sp/95 272-1663 Roommate needed for spring sem. 254-0317 Your House tor Spring semester is  Super Sharp 3 Bdrm. Approx 3/1 0 mi S. of N.D. @ 1018 N. Eddy. Why waste rent, build equity. Low $30's. Call for showing! 271-8100 Steve Weldy -ERA Brokers Assoc. 2way plane ticket certificate $250/bo call Fang@631-6353  We're Open Early, Late, & Weekends!!! 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sailing Cruise I Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808  Those persons responsible have been sacked Come by Cactus Jack's and see what's brewing. Visit the Cantina and shoot some pool, or watch the game. Bring in todays observer and receive $2.50 off any purchase Expires today. Love, peace, and tacos!  
- SHENANIGANS Christmas Concert 7:00P.M. Washington Hall FREE ADMISSION tix avail. at Lafortune info. desk Be a part of the NCAA Champion Fencing Team! One position avail­able for any freshman or sopho­more. Rudimentary knowledge of electricity preferred but not required. Any interested party please contact Brian @ 234-8027 ILOST & FOUND I LOST: This is ridiculous. but some­how my coat was switched with another woman's coat at the Grace formal last semester in April at Union Station. It was a black Ashley Scott long dress coat. If you think you may have the wrong coat, let me know. Liz x1277 LOST: Bnght blue Gortex jacket with green lining. Last seen at North Dining Hall. Please call Mike at x2027 with any information. Generous reward for its return. LOST: Dinosaur-shaped pewter earring in or near DeBartolo on Tues. night 11/29. If you find it, please call Linda at 232-2739. WANTED  ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is currently interviewing students for Summer '95 management posi­lions. Earn money in excess of $10,000. Call now. 1-800-477-1001 for a campus representative. RIDERS NEEDED TO CT. CALL ERIN AT x5225 SOON I Wantedl Individuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING BREAK '95. Earn substantial MONEY & FREE TRIPS. CALL INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­800-327-6013 WANTED PARTIIME LAB TECH WITH CG EXP. SEND RESUME TO: BOX 4103 SOUTH BEND IN 46634 Starting at $12/hr! The Princeton Review is looking for people to teach our test preparation courses. If you've earned a high score on the GMAT, MCAT or GRE and would like to work 6-1 Ohrs in the evenings and on weekends, contact us at: (800)865-7737. FOR RENT Zepfest House '95-96. Free maid serv., sand V-ball ct.,6-bedrm. 273-0482 234-3831 NEAR CAMPUS HOMES FOR RENT 95-96 SCHOOL YR 232 2595  available now! Completely remod­eled 3-4 bdrm 2 BLOCKS from campus. Full basement , all new appliances, and monitored security system included! Single rooms or entire place available. Call Mike@ 233-9609 todayl 1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL­ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 Bed 'N Breakfast Registry ­Private Homes JPW, Graduation 219-291-7153 WANTED: 5 students for beautifully remodeled home-Huge yard with oversized deck, security system, washer, dryer. 5 blocks from main circle. Available NOW for 2nd semester. 277-0636 Sublet 2BR Townhouse at TURTLE CREEK Next Semester! @Oayne X1945 FOR SALE Spring Break Early Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise. 6 days & 12 meals $2791 Panama City Oceanview Kitchens $129! Cancun & Jamaica $399! Daytona $159! Keys $2291 CocoaBeach $159! 1­800-678-6386 EA HOCKEY for IBM 1994 players with trades, etc... almost brand new, has all books and the registration form. best offer: call Tom at 4-1712  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616) 946-0700. TICKETS Buy/sell FIESTA BOWL tickets. Great seats available. We buy and sell concerts, sports, & theatre tick­ets. VISA. M/C, AMEX. Ticket Exchange Inc. since 1981 800-800­9811 PERSONAL Yeah Lewis 4W $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HEY CAVANAUGH WOMEN! Take the two funnest, goofiest, yummiest guys to your formal. Guaranteed time of your semester, or your money back. Call the "Dancing Ankles" at x1385. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Looking for three fun guys to "Dance Naked" with us at the Cavanaugh Formal Dec. 10. If you accept the challenge, call X0835, Ask for Cindy, Claudia, or Kathy. Freshman need not apply. I need a ride to (or anywhere near) Dallas, TX for Christmas. If you think you can help. please call Tom at x3253. I will pay.  MINDY, you're cool like that! I I'm proud of you, babe... keep the faith ... SOPHOMORE MALE SEEKS OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FOR SPRING SEMESTER. CALL SEAN 703-931-6864 OR PAGE ME AT 1­800-706-3255. •• * * ••• * * ••••••••••••••• Wish your friends a nifty holiday season with an Observer personal. The final paper of the semester is Dec. 9, and the deadline is 3pm. Dec 8. Good luck on finals!! ••• * • * •••••• lr •••••• ••••• The Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert. Saturday, December 10 8:15pm, JACC Gate 10 admission $2 • all proceeds bene­filing the South Bend Center for the Homeless • Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk, the Haggar College Center Information Desk, the JACC Ticket Office, and the Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office. Happy 22nd birthday SARA NOE! love, your london flalmates What does it mean? Said I shot a man named Gray Took his wife to Italy She inhereited a million bucks and when she died came to me I can't help it if I'm lucky Consult the Book of Armamentsl!ll  Going to Madrid next semester through SLU? Call Liz 634-1277 or Amy 284-5169 ........................ CONGRATS, BUZZARD!! You are the coolest future fire fighter! You are a stud, Buzz!! I ••••• Ill •••••••••••••••••• SPRING BREAK, SAILING BAHAMAS ON LUXURY YACHTS Seven Day Island Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin & Meals, $498 Ea. Groups of 6. 1-800-999-SAIL (7245). Delilah, I had an awesome weekend. Thanks a bunch, and I hope that Bob is not too afraid of loud noises. Rob HAIL THE SILVERWOLF!!I!II Just because I'm laughing doesn't mean I'm making fun of you. _I_ Kiddo, This time I'm trying to find the balance between all or nothing. Your lllinios Farmer Oh and Weirdo -I still hope I will always be able to make you laugh and smilel -That Silly guy from MD PS -I know this might be the wrong time, but are we still on for Fiesta and Vegas? I still want to go with you II I know fun will be had by all  


--------·-------------~-----------------~--­
Monday, December 5, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 11 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Decision could haunt Stallings for ages 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Gene Stallings had been wide­ly hailed for Alabama's knack of winning close games. Now he has to answer for a decision that may have cost Alabama a chance to win its second national title in three years. 
The Crimson Tide lost for the first time after Stallings elected to kick an extra point with less than nine minutes remaining rather than go for two points, leaving the door open for Florida to win the Southeastern Conference championship 24­23. 
Stallings was defiant after Saturday's game, insisting he had made the proper call. But the evidence suggested other­wise. 
The sixth-ranked Tide (11-1) went ahead 22-17 on Dwayne Rudd's 23-yard interception re-
Take a Break from Exams! 
DEPAUL 

UNIVERSITY 

vs. 

NOTRE DAME 
FIGHTING IRISH 
Saturday, December 10 2:00p.m. 
See Chicago's new 
11// UNITED (fiJ CENTER 
turn for a touchdown with 8:56 left. Considering the time re­maining and the margin, it seemed logical to go for the two-point conversion. if suc­cessful, Florida would need a touchdown and a conversion kick just to tie. 
But with little hesitation, Stallings sent his kicker, Michael Proctor, on to boot the extra point which gave Alabama a 23-17 lead. 
"We thought about going for two," he said. "If you go for two and make it, they would have had to score and make two to (win). If you go for two and don't make it, two field goals win it for them. There's no doubt in my mind that it was the right decision at the time." 
Stallings seemed to forget who was coaching against ­even though Alabama and No. 5 Florida (10-1-1) were meeting for the third straight y_ear in the SEc; title game. 
Down by five in the fourth quarter, it's plausible to see the conservative Stallings concoct­ing a plan to get in position for two field goals. But not Florida coach Steve Spurrier, one of the most daring offensive minds in the game. Spurrier likes touch­downs -Florida had scored 66 entering Saturday's game ­and he had gone for it on fourth down nearly as many times (13) as he had settled for a field goal attempt (15). 

After he got over the shock of Rudd's interception, Spurrier said he "just looked up at the scoreboard and knew seven points would give us the lead." 
Down by six, the Gators set out to reach the end zone ­and they did thanks to three gimmick plays Spurrier had been saving all day. 
Starting from his own 20, Danny Wuerffel threw two passes for 13 yards, then limped off the field as if injured. It was all a ruse, "just to make it look like it's not a planned play," Wuerffel said. Eric Kresser trotted on and threw a 
Come join us in a celebration of Mary and Joseph's journey to Bethlehem. 
Date: Tuesday, December 6, 1994 Time: 7:30p.m. Place: Steps of the Administration Building 
A reception will follow in Badin 
Sponsored by: Hispanic American Organization, NAACP, Spanish Club, Multicultural Student Affairs, and Badin Hall 

25-yard pass to Ike Hilliard to get the Gators into Alabama territory. Then Wuerffel, never really hurt, returned. 
With first-and-10 at the Alabama 31, the Gators split a receiver to each side, flanked by a tight end and a tackle, leaving only three blockers around Wuerffel at the center of the field. He fired a quick pass to Reidel Anthony, who used the extra blockers to pick up 9 yards. 
On second-and-1, Wuerffel threw a pass at nearly the same spot to Chris Doering, but it was actually a lateral. Doering the•. -'~ropped back and threw his first pass of the season to slot man Aubrey Hill, who went 20 yards before he was knocked out of bounds at the Alabama 2. On the next play, Wuerffel, calling an audible, hit Doering for a touchdown pass across the middle. 
"We had a quarterback sneak called, but they had everybody crammed in tight," Wuerffel said, "so I checked off with about six seconds left (on the play clock) and our line gave me time to make the throw." 
Then Judd Davis -this time, there was no question it was the right decision -came on to kick the game-winning extra point. 
"We had to go to our grab bag of trick plays to make things happen," said Spurrier, whose. Gators are on their way to New Orleans for a Sugar Bowl rematch with Florida State. 
Spurrier's play-calling was never in question, but his peo­ple skills -demoting star quar­terback Terry Dean to the third team, for instance -were criti­cized when Florida won nine games by an average of 35 points but folded in the fourth quarter in their other two con­tests: a 36-33 loss to Auburn and a galling 31-31 tie with Florida State. 
Alabama had come from be­hind four times in the fourth quarter, and there was still plenty of time (5:29) to do it again.About 20 more yards and they would have been in Proctor's range, but the drive went no further. It ended when Jay Barker, 34-1-1 as the Tide's starting quarterback, threw an interception on fourth-and-13, relegating Alabama to the Citrus Bowl against Ohio State and to pon­der the 2-point conversion that never was. 


at its most 
Student Government is making an effort to see that this 
affordable price. 
university stays committed to ensuring that every qualified
$30•$25•$20 
student has the opportunity to attend Notre Dame,
$15•$12 
regardless of financial status.
For Tickets Call TICKETMASTER 312-559-1212 
We need to know what YOU think about NO's
n-----------,
I ffiiSH /DEMON SPEOAL I 
Financial Aid, whether or not you receive any.
:t/2 OFF REGULARI I ADULT ONE-WAY 
I .
1 present th1s coupon to 
PLEASE FILL OUT A FINANCIAL AID SURVEY TODAY
I your ticket agent when 
I
1purchasing in South Bend. 
AND RETURN IT TO THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE OR TO THE ENVELOPE IN YOUR DORM!!! 
I 0111)' valkll~l::: :.-.:r:::;-:~~ Soutb lkl•d 
Off campus: Pick up your survey in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. 

NoiY•Udo.a•yotltntniMorwitllluyollwr~•torpnMIKition
L-----------.J L! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
--------------~-,-------~~-~-----~--~---------------­
Rally 

continued from page 16 
to just two at 71-69 after a Keith Kurowski 3-pointer with 
4:35 left. 

Lamarr Justice sparked the rally wiih all of his team-high 18 points in the second half. Kurowski added 13, also all in the final 20 minutes. 
But Notre Dame simply spent too much energy clawing its way back into the game. The 
--· -------~ -~---­
Monday, December 5, 1994 
Irish could climb no closer than two. Twelve straight Torero points returned the tide. 
The Irish now travel to Loyola Marymount tonight, hoping the worst is behind them. 
"We had some excellent young men who had some suc­cess and stopped listening to the things that got us in that position," MacLeod said. "Hopefully, we're mature enough and enough of a team that this is a lesson we won't have to learn over again." 

c:?~"-:d /~i6zeu AI!J:ff.·... .-~~:~"'~ 
·~  ~{~  
1803 South Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Plaza 277-2974  ~~~~ ~  

Not valid with other offer. New customers 
ICHIBAN 
Alwayg #I to Me 
·.·.::, 

Happy 21st Birthday 
-Mom 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• NOTRE DAME SWIMMING 
Irish grab Championship 
Sp~cial to the Obs~rvrr 
Notre Dame led wire to wire as the men's swimming team earned its seventh straight National Catholic Championship outdistancing second place Catholic University by over 300 points while the women's team won its sixth straight by nearly the same margin at Rolf's Aquatic Center this weekend. 
The final score for the men's team effort was 1048 points, while second place Catholic had 701. The women's team amassed 1016 points compared to St. Louis's 683. 
The Irish men were paced by the meet's most valuable swim­mer, Ry Beville, who set a meet record Saturday in the 100 but­terfly and became a double winner when he captured the 200 fly Saturday evening. 
Notre Dame junior Jesslyn Peterson became the meet's only triple event winner when she captured the 200 breast­stroke in a time of 2:22.90. Peterson was also named the meet's top women's swimmer. 
Fighting Irish diver Marcia Powers was named the meet's top diver after capturing both the one and three-meter events. St. Louis's Gene Kohler duplicated the feat to win the men's diving award. 
Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh also earned Coach of the Year honors. 
~otre Dame will swim again Friday evening at 6:30 when Wisconsin-Green Bay comes to town for a dual meet. 

• SMC SWIMMING 
Belles keep slashing times 
By ANGELA OLSEN Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swimming team's performance in this past weekend's National Catholic Swimming and Diving Invitational at Holf's Aquatic Center was nothing short of extraordinary. 
On the first day of competi­tion, the Belle's swam season best times in 15 of their first 17 races. They competed against division one schools Notre Dame and St. Louis and division three schools Catholic University and John Carroll. The Belle's took second out of the division three schools. 
"We did extremely well over­all and performance wise," said head coach Greg Janson who received the Coach of the Meet Awardforwomen'sswimming. 
Three school records were set during the course of the three day competition. Juniors Teresa Popp and Katie Hose teamed with Freshmen Allison Smith and Sarah Gillen to set a new school record in the 400 freestyle. Smith went on to win the 1650 freestyle with a time of 17:49.92 minutes and set another school record in the process. 
Janson called Smith's win, "Her single greatest perfor­mance of all time. This is the first time we've won an event in this meet. Her time would have placed her 11th at last year's NCA's." 
FIESTA BOWL PACKAGE 
$169.00 
• 2 NIGHTM PERSONS HOTEL ACCOMODATIONS *FREE AJRPORT SHUTTLE AND GAME TRANSPORTA-TION 
• GAME DAY BREAKFAST BUFFEi ­
FOR RESERVATIONS CAU 
(602) 273-1211 
ROO£WAY INN·AIRPORT WEST 

$26 00 EACH ADDITIONAL P€~SOH/HAX ~PERSONS PER ROOM 
/lfO!lNIJ WTN-(11/Eif(JnJ!f 

"Masculinity in the 1990s'' Henkels Spring Lecture Series* Dates: January 30, 1995 February 20, 1995 Dr. Michael S. Kimmel Dr. Ann Robins "Clarence, William, Iron Mike, Magic & Us: "Biology and Masculinity" Male-Female Relationships in the 1990s" January 31, 1995 March 1, 1995 Dr. Michael S. Kimmel Dr. J. William Gibso.1 "The Men's Movement in the 1990s" i'The Military and Masculinity" February 9, 1995 Dr. Michael Messner "Organized Sports and the Construction ofMasculinity" *All lectures are scheduled for 4:00p.m. in the Library Auditorium  



Monday, December 5, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 



The Observer/John Bingham Senior co-captain Letitia Bowen, along with fellow co-captain Carey Poor, led the Irish with nine rebounds as the Irish lose to Alabama. 
By K.C. GOYER to lose to sixth ranked Sports Writer Alabama, 87-106 in the cham­
pionship game on•saturday
Tough luck. The Notre Dame 

night.women's basketball team has While one of the strengths of had the fortune to play tough this year's team is the depth of teams, in tough games, and talent, Alabama relied on a bal­
earn tough losses. 

anced attack. Five players for The Irish traveled to 
the Crimson Tide scored double California for the University of digits, including one off the California, Irvine Newport 
bench. Beach Marriott Classic tourna­

Two Notre Dame players ment this weekend. After 
scored season highs as Beth soundly defeating the Morgan contributed 23 and co­Anteaters, Notre Dame went on 
captain Carey Poor netted 19 
Irish learning from losses 

We're famous for our secret-recipe buttermilk pancakes. But that's only the beginning of the great breakfasts, burgers. melts, ornelettes, and complete dinners vve prepare to your order. Come see us anytime. 24 hours a day, and find out why no otherplace stacks up to Perkins® Farnily Restaurant. 
Now Open at 423 S. Dixie Way Roseland 

• I<)<)() l'nki tb lk~LiltLIIH~ <lpnatt ng <.ompam. I.. I' 

._. ___________________________________........-_............ 
' 

1 t • t' t ' It t t t t .. 11 " • t 4 .•• t.' .... t t 4 It tl • Ill «, • e « • • <l .. • • t II t • ., " • ' ' • '"' • • • 
points. Poor, along with co­captain Letitia Bowen, led both teams in rebounding with nine each. The Irish owned the boards as usual, this time 38­35. 
Morgan and Poor were named to the All-Tournament team. 
Other high statistics weren't as encouraging for the Irish. Four of the starters lost the ball at least four times. The game ended with the Irish committing 25 turnovers, as compared to the 'Tide's 16. 
In the first half, Alabama boasted a .537 shooting per­centage, sending 22 of 41 shots through the iron. Fiery shoot­ing skills allowed Alabama to jump to an early 15-2 lead, and end the half leading 58-36. 
Characteristic of the Fighting Irish, the team battled for a major comeback in the second half. Five minutes into the half, Notre Dame came back from an apparently very fruitful timeout to outscore Alabama 28 to 16 in under ten minutes. With two minutes remaining, the Irish were 8 points from the upset. A short but timely run of unan­swered buckets for the Crimson Tide sealed the loss for the Irish, although the final score was not indicative of Notre Dame's caliber of play. 
Notre Dame proved that this year's squad can run with the best of them once again last night, especially down the stretch. Against Purdue earlier this week and Alabama over the weekend, Notre Dame outscored their opponents by twelve points, falling just short of victory in the final two min­utes. 
Coach Muffet McGraw·has a lot of talent to work with from the young team. Sophomore's Beth Morgan, Rosanne Bohman, Jeannine Augustin, and Katryna Gaither provide the backbone of the team, scor­ing 40 of the team's 87 points against Alabama. 
Although the intense compe­tition the Irish have been facing this season is taking its toll the team's record, the players are learning to play with the best and that they are capable of 
. defeating the best. Fortunate for the team's future, but a bit of tough luck for. current encouragement. 



~ 


page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, December 5, 1994 



The Observer/John Bingham The Notre Dame hockey team continues to lose as Michigan defeated them 11-2. 
• HOCKEY 
Irish lose their sixth straight 
Michigan 
hands Irish 
another loss in 
11-2 win 

· By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 
An old fashioned slaughter. Pt~rhaps that is the best way to describe Michigan's 11-2 trouncing of the Notre Dame hockey team on Saturday evening at Ann Arbor 
In front of 7 427 fans at Yost Arena, the Wolverines domi­nated the Irish from start to fin­ish on their way to handing Notre Dame their sixth consec­utive loss on the year. The de­feat dropped the ninth place Irish's record to 3-11, including a 1-9 mark in conference play. 
Notre Dame entered the game knowing that they would need a strong start to have any chance of upsetting the heavily favorited Wolverines on their home ice. However, this did not happen, as Michigan scored a pair of goals in the first 1:27 of the game to set the tone for the evening. 
Wolverine right wing Warren l.uchning ignited the offensive explosion with the opening goal at the 18:45 mark of the first period. Just 12 seconds later, 
Urban Plunge Students"' who missed ORIENTATION 
Alittle roundball, anY.one~ 


from Kevin Hilton, Ron Sacka, and Brendan Morrison, and Luhning, Muckait, Matt Herr, Mike Legg, and Robb Gordon contributed one each in the winning effort. 
In addition to Notre Dame's problems in containing the Wolverine offense, the blowout resulted from the Irish offense's inability to penetrate the Michigan defense following the first period. 
However, Schafer remains confident that the team will turn it around next weekend when the team hosts Alaska­Fairbanks and Miami of Ohio. 
"We are much better than our record shows," said Schafer. "We just need to exe­cute better on offense and be more consistent on the defen­sive end." 
Recycle the Observer 
Student Payment Plan• • • Guaranteed Lowest Price 
• All Packages Include: Free Food/Drink & T-shlrt 
-800-SURF'S·UP 

TOUR EUROPE THIS SUMMER AND EARN THREE ND CREDITS! 
INTERACT WITH TOP-LEVEL MANAGEMENT & BUSINESS EXECUTIVES 
VISIT 
ROME & FLORENCE, ITALY; lNNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA; MUNICH, GERMANY; 
GENEVA, SWITZERLAND; PARIS, FRANCE; LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM. 
11

TRIP DATES-MAY 15TH-]UNE W INFORMATIONAL MEETING DATE:DEC. GT/1, 1994 TIME: 4:30-5:30 PlACE: 220 HAYES HEALY 
SPONSORS: ND MARKETING D~:JYf. &INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS SEMINARS 
Enjoy Holiday Rerreshments as you browse among our great girt ideas. 
Continue your collections or memories with "IRISH VILLAGE". 
Smile as you read Suzy's Zoo and Farside Christmas cards, and don't rorget all or the ornaments and Christmas decorations are hand crafted! 
Our hand-crafted stockings, yummy candies and hugable teddy bears make the holidays run, and our beautirul angels bring peace to all. 
5ee you soon, and Happy Holidays! 
Lower Level -LaFortune 
N 

7P.M. • THIS WEDNESDAY! NOTRE DAME 
Women's Basketball 
-------vs.------------------------------­
MICHIGAN STATE 
FREE ADMISSION! with student ID 


..Joyce Center Main Arena 
Monday thru Saturday Dec. 5th. thru Dec. !Cth I0 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
U.P.S. 
Daily Service 
631-6714 



Monday, December 5, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS 
OF THE APOCALYPSE 
lJ)ELL,'~(NTLE REAt>E.e,F.,I'~S Arz.£ (oM IN~ UP 'So To ~·u P~ZEPAit£ fOR 
lH•SE L•N"', LP.ff't.u<E.­
)!"OVLE-t> 'STu""\ 1-\oui!.S, V.et.pARt.<:>1>1t. F•LL•v'•N b, Srvo'1 To 
Sl-loLN ~ou ''i_}.)H AT's :SFII''E.. ,. 
1\KO\W~.R S\.\OW EX-TOlLING Lc~ toNI> 1>£;.-,C£ 1~\ER~\.lffi.D E'JER.'I 'SE'J£.N t<\1~\JT£.5 B'l ca~~E.RC.I~\5 EXiCU..ING 
GR££D ~~0 Wt-..'5\t: . 
J 
VH·, 'STILL POING, lNE.LL. m'i Lt.FT \-\AND~ ~M ...... c, 
T>~ou(,H ...
111 

DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
~ joq CoLAS., 9 v.• AR.•N, 2. 
ovr'C> 13AG, Ov (YI <. rn''··. 
BILL WATTERSON 
l'!-1\ \_£.1>-R.N\~G I ~~EO 
1-1\~ OWN T'-1 SCl I CAN 
Wt>.\C.I-\ SJ~£.\'lfl..C~ 
El'S£. 


DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 

•
Notre Dame 
WE'VE. STUDIED THE. JAPANESE 1"\0DE.L AND DECIDED TO COPY THEIR BEST PRACTICES. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Hint of scandal 58 Unknown John 30 "Gee whiz!" 59 Street urchin 
1 "My Fair Lady" miss 31 Yearn (for) &o Winged god &-Air 35 Rarely 61 Neighbor of Syr. 
h..-+---+~f-+-­
9 Drop explosives 38 Jury member 62Portents on 
39 Nobelist Wiesel 

13 Sal, in song 40Adored DOWN 14 King topper 41 Mr. Musial 1 Austen heroine 
15 Kind of eclipse 42 Evaluate 2 City on the
16 Beethoven classic 
43 Adherents of Rhone Allah 3"-Rhythm"

19 Poker opener 47 Mine output 4 Western 
20 Classic auto novelist Grey 48Gasoline21 Accountants' rating 5 The whole activities shebang
49 List ender 6 Breakfast roll 

22 Be under the 
weather 50 Native of old 7 Bounce back 
23 Electrical units Peru a Tennis call 
24 Horizontally 54 My sweetheart, in an old song 9German
28 Leave the political groups ground 57 Core belief 10 TV studio light 
-------------11 Lusterless ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE finish ....,.._..,,..,..,,..,...,.,..,...,..,.........,.,..., 12 Copper-zinc alloy 
-:::+::::.+::=+::'-1-7--E-H.,::..+,~ 15 Jeweler's 
31 Famous cookie 43 Grove of trees, 50 Mideastern
eyeglass man in the V.I.P. 
17 Eye part 

32Cabot­Southwest 51 Alaskan city ,.il~tt~!~~®~~--· 18 Chinese liquor ("Murder, She 44 Yellow-orange 52 Originate, as a
11 ~"'-+''+"+'o-i 22 Spumante city Wrote" town) phrase
45 Dictation taker 
.-:±±+.':-1 23 Bridal path? 33 Works the 53 Miller and 
Stevie Ace Flores.
46lnjures
-::+::-+-:-=+=-~~;+-:::+=1 24 Upon garden Sothern 34 Pass receivers 47 Aquatic animal 55 Uganda's Am in 

Killed b1 Ll dru11h dmcr 011 MwciJ 23, 1'!9.3, on Pucr{i; Com! Highway 111 \\'limington. Cull[
~ trademark ~~~~~J! 26 Houston school 37 Otherwise ~W~$:··· 25 Chaplin 36 Tennis players 49 Son in Genesis 5& Self 
If you dlln't Sll1J! \ c1Ur.fnencl rrom dmll1g d111~\k \\'hll wiiP
r.:t=+-:c-F-+:'1 27 Lollapalooza 41 French 

Do whate1·er it takes. 1-=+:':+.::+:-+=--t 28 Batman's legislature 
Get answers to any three clues 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
partner 42 St. Louis 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
-..:.....r....::....a..=.~ 30 Swank affairs landmark 


The Fighting Irish Savings Card 
is now available! 

The card entitles NO students to special discounts at places like Studebagels, Domino's, Blockbuster Video, and many others. Cards will be distributed in dorm mailboxes. Off-campus students may pick up a card in the Student Government Office. 
... 
-
I I 
) 
I 
I ~ 
I I I I t l 
' I 
I I I I I I I I 
~ 
t j I 
I 
.,. 
SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, December 5, 1994 
• VOLLEYBALl 

Panthers defeated, Lions next 
Debbie Brown expected, the Panthers'Irish advance in strength was in their blocking. 
Pitt blocked 21 Irish attempts, with 6-0 sophomore Melanie Gustafson contribut­
NCAA tourney by 
ing 2 solo blocks and 10 block assists. In addition to the wall they put up at
defeating Pitt, 
the net, the Panthers neutralized the strongest Irish asset, their outside attack, by returning many of their kill
Penn State next 
attempts and holding the Irish to a .128 hitting percentage. By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer "Our defense was strong," said Pitt captain Carrie Thornton. "But we 
Notre Dame's dreams of a volleyball couldn't kick it in at the end." national championship are still alive. The Irish used depth and endurance Despite the resilient defensive stance of to overcome the powerful Pitt perfor­the Pitt Panthers yesterday, the Irish mance. All-American outside hitter volleyball team survived the four-game Christy Peters returned from an ankle match and walked away with a 15-9, injury to lead the Irish with 19 kills and 11-15, 15-13, 15-13 victory. 22 digs. Although Peters' statistics indi­
The Irish had to overcome many cate no lack of recovery from her injury, obstacles to obtain the win, namely the she was still not one hundred percent. Pitt front line. As Irish head coach 
"It was obvious Christy (Peters] .was hampered and a little out of sync," said Pitt head coach Cindy Alvear. 
"But as the match went on, her finesse came out. That's something you don't lose with an injury." 
Peters attitude was grateful and opti­mistic. "I felt pretty good," said Peters. "I was just really happy to be out there." 
Along with Peters, the Irish team pro­vided the necessary skills and stamina to complete the defeat of the Panthers. Freshman Angie Harris followed Peters with 11 kills and 18 digs. Sophomore 

eluding a six-point 13-7 Pitt lead in "It contributed to our enjoyment of the outside hitter Jenny Birkner and fresh­
game two, to come back and clinch the match."
man middle blocker Jaime Lee also had victory. The Irish now look ahead to fifth9 kills each. Junior Shannon Tuttle set "This was the biggest see-saw match ranked Penn State, as they head to the

the entire match for the Irish, an 

I've ever seen," said Alvear. "It's a sweet sixteen Friday night in Lincoln,exhausting feat in itself. Tuttle was also tough match to lose when you're up." Nebraska. The match will be one ofa force at the net for the Irish with five vengeance for the Irish. The Nittanyblock assists. 
Belief in their ability and support from Lions have knocked the Irish out of the the Irish fans also helped give the Irish tournament the last two years. 
As physically grueling as the match team the mental edge. "Especially for the seniors, this matchwas, it was the mental edge that won it "Even when we were down, we knew is very important," said Peters.

for the Irish. They resisted constant we could come back," said Brown. "We will be a completely different

lead changes and Irish deficits, in­

"The crowd was great," said Peters. team." 




... 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Rally helps Irish, but not enough for win 

uJ.timately erated us," Irish coach John over again.
Lamarr Justice 

have a positive MacLeod said. "We had some Notre Dame spent less than effect. success (against Indiana) and half of the intermission in their
sparked a rally 

we got a little full of ourselves locker room, returning to the Notre Dame and decided we could go court after a quick, but appar­
that wasn't 

(2-1) is not the halfway. We paid dearly for it." ently quite effective, meeting. ~same team it
enough to win 

.was a year The 2-1 Toreros' raced to "We just talked about the ab­By JASON KELLY Lamarr Justice ago, though it their remarkable halftime mar­solute silliness-and that's the Associate Sporrs Ediror looked fright­gin behind guard Doug Harris, only way to describe it-of our 
'fully familiar during a feeble who finished with a game-high first half play," MacLeod said of Perhaps a lesson can be 15-point first half when San 23 points. Sean Flannery had the brief halftime talk that ig­dredged from this letdown. 
Diego opened a 31-point lead. 17 and David Fizdale added 16. nited a second-half resurgence. Maybe the 90-76 loss to San 
Notre Dame helped dig its "We had to dig in defensivelyDiego wasn't so much a regres­
But it also is not exactly the early hole with just 19 percent and return to team play." sion as it was a rude return to team that upset Indiana on shooting in the first half (5-for­reality. Tuesday, particularly when it 26 from the field), including 1-The Irish managed to revive 
If the Irish learned that they 

abandons the principles that for-9 from 3-point range. some pride in the second half, cannot rest on the success of 
built the victory. Fourteen turnovers and just remarkably chopping the lead 
one early-season upset. then 

one assist added to the nostal­Saturday's shellacking could "(San Diego) absolutely oblit-gia. It looked like last year all see RALLY I page 12 

of note...
Hockey team gets clawed 
The hockey team traveled to Michigan only to to lose 11-2 see page 14

I 
l r 





