


Wednesday, February 23, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 96 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hesburgh calls students to serve Paluszak tickets wins in 
By AMY SCHMIDT News Writer 
Representing the paradigm of an altruistic individual, Univer­sity President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh reached into his vast and diverse volun­teer experience while speaking on the topic of service in last night's Saint Edward's Hall fo­rum. 
Hesburgh began by retelling the biblical story of the Good Samaritan, explaining that as Christians, we are called to love our neighbors as ourselves. He said that this can be a hard job, because a popular view on vol­unteerism by the army is "never volunteer because it is more work, dangerous, and it is much easier to keep your head down." 
Despite this idea, Hesburgh recognized the importance of volunteerism early in his life. He admitted that the initial mo­tivation came from his friends in the seminary, and this led to much work in the future. 
Hesburgh said that his most rewarding experience with vol­unteering was his work on the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights in 1958. In ten years, this group set up by the Senate re-wrote laws, 75% of which were passed in Congress. 
"This work was satisfying be­

cause I love this country," he received over $300 million from said, "and freedom is not for a the U.S. government and the certain class of people, but for U.N. to aid Cambodia. everyone." "We started from scratch," he 
Hesburgh also mentioned his said, "and saved one million work in other areas of the people who would have died world. During the Carter Ad­without this volunteer effort." ministration he was the Chair­Hesburgh also served as a man of the Board of the Over­chaplain in a reformatory for seas Development Council. It juveniles, and was involved in was within this position that, the Peace Corps' first volunteer 
with the help of religious lead­group in Chile. ers from across the world, he He went on to address the 


class election run-off 
By LISA WHISLER News Writer 
Jennifer Paluszak will take the helm as junior class presi­dent next year at Saint Mary's. 
Paluszak, with the help of vice president Erin Shern, sec­retary Kari Fantasia, and trea­surer Paulette Rackowski won 
53.7 percent of the class of 1996's vote in the run-off elec­tions yesterday in the SMC din­ing hall. 
The elections had resulted last week without any of the tickets claiming a majority of the class vote. Amidst confu­sion over campaign receipts and an investigation by the elections committee, the stu­dents continued to campaign for votes. In the tradition of past elections, the candidates went door-to-door in each of the dormitories, and distributed flyers outlining their various platforms. 
"We are looking forward to a great year," Fantasia said, "We are eager to go ahead with our plans to improve communica­tions on campus." 
The winning ticket had run on a platform centered almost entirely around the theme of better communication. 
While campaigning, they
importance of volunteering at proposed stepping up the al­Notre Dame. He said that ap­ready existing, yet relativelyproximately 75% of the Notre new, e-mail system. They have Dame community is involved in proposed using it to record the
some type of volunteering. 
minutes of each junior class
This, he said, is what makes board meeting. In the past,
Notre Dame, and even our class secretaries had been re­country, different from any 
sponsible for copying and dis­other in the world. 

"My hope is that they (Notre tributing the minutes on their own. Using e-mail would famil­
Dame students) will still do it 
iarize every member of the
50 years from now," Hesburgh class with the activities of stu­said. 
SAINT MARY'S SOPHOMORE CLASS RUNOFF RESULTS 

• Paluszak II Petrovic D Abstain 
dent government. 
"We are excited, and looking forward to a great year," Fan­tasia said. 
Losing with 35.2 percent of the class of '96 vote was the ticket of Kathy Petrovic for president, Heather McDonald for vice president, Mary Beth Holzl for secretary, and Amy Misch for treasurer. 
"We enjoyed the challenge of campaigning, but we are con­fident that Jen Paluszak's ticket will do well." 
Petrovic's ticket had planned on delegating responsibility to people outside the class board to bring new ideas to student government. They had wanted to reach students who do not usually have a forum for their ideas or opinions. 
"We are eager to become in­volved next year," Petrovic added, "losing is not going to stop us." 



Diversity top priority in pioneering change at SM C 
By lAURA FERGUSON 
Assistant News Editor 
In the spirit of pioneering change the Saint Mary's admin­istration is aiming to increase the cultural diversity on cam­pus by changing the campus climate to accommodate differ­ences in ethnicity. 
The College will facilitate the increase by drawing from a $150,000 grant from the Lily Endowment of Indianapolis. 
The grant, titled "Enriching the Learning Environment: Toward a Multicultural College" will enable Saint Mary's to cre­ate an environment that en­courages the intellectual, aca­demic and personal growth of all students, while achieving the goal of greater cultural diver­sity, according to Maricela Ramirez, director of the Office of Multicultural Affairs. 
The grant will enable a team of outside evaluators will visit Saint Mary's this spring to look critically at campus diversity and campus culture. Although the group has yet to be assem­bled, results from this study will be available later this spring. 
"We don't know how this pro­cess of assessment will go," Ramirez commented. "Our de­partment was created in 1988 to evaluate the progress of in­creasing diversity. We have reached some important goals since then but we have a long distance to go. Like a camel in the desert we are moving slow­ly." 
The Office of Multicultural Af­fairs is also planning a series of seminars for faculty and admin­istrators, as well as a Trustees retreat for the Board of Regents in an attempt to transform the community and modify the cur­rent curriculum to reflect a multicultural society. 
A committee of faculty are currently working to determine a time for these seminars as well as selecting a speaker and material to cover. 
The Trustees Retreat will also include a section for the Board and administrators on multicul­turalism. 
"Through these programs we should be able to see changes in attitudes and behavior on campus," Ramirez said. 
Beginning next year, faculty grants will be available for re­search to implement changes in curriculum. These grants will be a result from the seminars. 
Ann Loux, associate professor of English has already imple­mented changes in the curricu-
FOCUSING 
ON THE ISSUES 
Part 3of5 
!urn to aid cultural diversity. 
After receiving a summer stipend from the Lily Endow­ment, Loux developed a litera­ture course focusing on tradi­tional and contemporary Chi­cana writers. 
Being offered for the first time this term, the idea for this class was seeded by Delia Gar­cia, a Chicana student who graduated from Saint Mary's last year. Garcia and Loux felt that students must explore other cultures. 
"Education is about learning stories different from our own," Loux said. "The primary goal is to seek out other cultural tradi­tions because our own are too narrow." 
"This is great literature but it is not what we often study. I love it because it is a real dis­covery class," Loux added. "No one is much of an authority so everyone must do research on this literature." 
Loux has also received a grant to develop a course focus­ing on southern women writers to be offered next fall. The class will be called "Old South, New South, Black South, White South" and will begin by cover­ing African-American writers. 

At the annual Honors Convo­cation in April the first award for multicultural enrichment will be given to a member of the Saint Mary's faculty, admin­istration or staff. The award is designed to publicly recognize people who have demonstrated a strong commitment to cul­tural diversity at Saint Mary's. The recipient will be awarded $1,000. 
The Lily Endowment will also help to bring ethnically diverse artists in residence. This year, to complement Loux's Chicana writers class New Mexico poet and playwrite, Denise Chavez will spend the third week of March reading her works, criti­cizing other work and giving lectures. 
Chavez is the author of "The Last of the Menu Girls" and teaches at the University of Houston. 
Other Office of Multicultural Affairs plans include multicul­tural councils in each residence hall, a mentorship program and tutoring for multicultural stu­dents. 
"The process of campus di­versity is a process. We want to do our best now to pre­pare for tomorrow's challenges. If we do that now we will be fine in the future," Ramirez said. 

Anila Ahmed, an interna­
see SERIES I page 4 

r 
I l, I I •, l \I
I\' o'

1 I I I I I I • ' 
I

\I I,\ •, \I', I,' 'I I\ 1'
I 1 I\ 

r '.'; 
page2 The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, February 23, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Will we be able 
to forget Tonya 
tonight? 
She's everywhere, Tonya Harding that is. From the CBS evening news to the Miss America pageant. And I'm sick of her. I know I'm not the only one to think this, and I really hate myself for taking up room in The Observer for dis­cussing it but I will have my moment of digres­sion just as everyone else has. 

Like many other mass manipulators. Harding has succeeded in making several hundred thousand dollars as well as galvaniz­ing the same type of superficial support as one would generate on Geraldo because of the accessibility and eagerness of the media to make more than a news story out of all of this. Worse than the media's incessant harping is that our society has fallen to the lowly point of skimming the pages of newspapers and zip­ping through all the channels searching for updates on this saga. Who cares that Dan Jansen finally won the gold or that Bonnie Blair triumphed again? But how would you know this, after all there's been nothing to read and watch besides Tonya and Nancy. 
What amazes me is that we actually buy it all. That some of us actually get into heated debates over "Was she really behind it all or was she just the helpless victim?" That some of us actually watched the paid interview she had with Inside Edition. That some of us actually followed the Chung on Harding series. I'm not saying this behavior is inap­propriate, but it's appalling to think that there's such demand for this trash. And it is trash, not the human interest story its so pur­ported to be. 
The Olympics of my youth were about the likes of Dorothy Hammill, Peggy Flemming and Scott Hamilton. The energy and passion that these people brought to the ice made everyone believe that there was more to com­petition than just being the best, that it was possible to share the best of the human spirit your country has to offer with the rest of the world. 
But these nostalgic memories aren't absent from recent years. It was only two years ago that Krisiti Yamaguchi commanded the audi­ence with such a presence that no one ever doubted she was the champion of all champi­ons that evening in Albertville. Or what about this year's story ofViktor Petrenko helping the injured American skater Katie Wood by bring­ing food, clean linens, sterile syringes and other medical supplies to her in the one of Odessa's filthy, dilapidated hospitals as well as making arrangements to airlift her to a hospital in Germany. Even the comeback of the legendary Torvill and Dean to receive a Bronze medal deserves some attention if not amazement. 
But will the 1994 Lillehammer Olympics escape unscathed from the tarnish of Tonya? Probably not. Are we going to remember the dignity and class that both Jansen and Blair showed in victory? Probably not. Are we going to remember the noble story of Petrenko before remembering the Connie Chung interview? Probably not. And most importantly, when the women's short pro­gram comes on this evening are we going to forget the scandal and concentrate on the skating? Probably not, but we can try. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Beth Regan Christopher Mullins Mary B. Good Susan Marx Sports Accent Tim Seymour Nora Buckley 
Viewpoint Graphics Brian Seiler Brendan Regan Lab Tech 
Frequent Fliers must travel even more in order to fly free 

After three coast-to-coast flights you might think you have enough frequent flier miles for a free ticket. 
Get back on the plane. 
New rules from some of the biggest airlines mean you'll have to fly more miles as a paying passenger to earn the minimum frequent flier award. 
Led by United, big airlines are raising the number of miles to qualify for a free domestic ticket, from 20,000 to 25,000. They say it's one way of gaining more control over a marketing device that lets so many customers fly free. 
The latest notch in the seemingly never-ending belt­tightening at the nation's airlines is risky for them. They don't want to alienate their best customers -the busi­ness fliers who pay the priciest fares, fly the most fre­quently and have accrued enormous mileage entitling them to fat awards. 
The most-frequent fliers may not necessarily see the new rules as a sacrifice, since they have so many miles accumulated anyway. But many less-frequent passengers see the awards as an entitlement. They're angry. 
"I resent it. I work hard to earn those miles," said George Brakeley III, a fund-raising consultant for non­profit corporations. "I regard awards from frequent flier programs as something due me and they make it tougher and tougher and tougher to get the awards." 
For some of the most frequent fliers, the increase is actually welcome news. The higher requirement means there will be fewer people competing for free seats on the choicest routes. 
"It's gotten to be more of a seller's market," said Randy Mohr, who worked on developing the Diners Club frequent flier program and is now advertising manager 
Bayh working alone on welfare plan 
INDIANAPOLIS The research arm of the General Assembly has thrown more fuel under the simmering debate over welfare 
changes, and who should control them. Gov. Evan Bayh says he needs only fed­eral permission, not state legislation, to make the changes he wants. That includes a two-year limit on Aid for Dependent Children for recipients who receive education and job training. But lawmakers eager to put their mark on welfare reform want to make changes on their own. The Legislative Services 

Agency, which drafts bills and Evan Bayh researches issues for lawmakers, says Bayh has stepped over the line of his executive powers. "It seems to me the wiser course. if you're truly interest­ed in welfare reform, is to have the Legislature do it," House. 
Sex education in Britain similar to U.S. 
LONDON 
Shona, 16, says she knows how not to become part of an embarrassing British statistic -the highest teen-age pregnancy rate in western Europe. Her cropped braids bobbing to music blaring at a central London shelter for homeless teens, Shona blasts the rule at the boys slouch­ing in the smoke-smudged room: "If he isn't dressed. he isn't getting in!" That's her well-rehearsed line on the use of condoms. Social worker Adil Yazdani wanders through the shelter, gently coaxing other young people to join him at a table covered with condoms, lubricants and spermicides, a plaster model of an erect penis, a diaphragm, an IUD. More teen-age girls become pregnant in Britain each year than in any other country of western Europe: 65.3 per thousand in 1991. In the Netherlands, which has a liberal attitude toward sex, the pregnancy rate among women under 20 is the world's lowest at nine per thousand. 
NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 23. 
OS Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
FRONTS: 
............... ....a.....a....~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 

~ 

for the National Safety Council. "There are more people with miles looking for the trips and there are more people looking for seats." 
The vast majority of passengers, maybe 90 percent, are not-so-frequent fliers and have been just barely qualifying for a free ticket at the 20,000 mile level. 
Elvis Costello joins Zappa and Hendrix 
Ladies and gentlemen, Elvis has left the Columbia build­ing and joined Zappa, Bowie. Hendrix and a legion of other strange talents at one of music's most creative labels -the upstart Rykodisc. The Salem, Mass.-based label gave a lOth birthday present to itself last year by acquiring Elvis Costello's first 11 albums, which Columbia had put out on compact disc in so-so reissues that didn't do justice to one of pop's angriest songwriters. Ryko has begun the Costello reissues with the same doting care they gave to their two earlier big-name acquisitions, Frank Zappa and David Bowie. The Costello reissues began with the boxed set "2 1/2 Years," containing digi­tally remastered versions of his first three albums: "My Aim Is True," "This Year's Model" and "Armed Forces." In keeping with Ryko's aim to improve upon the originals, each album includes live, studio and demo bonus tracks, new artwork and funny running commentary from Costello about his frame of mind when the songs were written and recorded. 
Social Security program being abused 
WASHINGTON 
In the 20 years since Supplemental Security Income mailed its first checks to the poorest of America's elderly and disabled, it has become one of the government's fastest growing and most expensive welfare programs. Record numbers of elderly immigrants, drug addicts and alcoholics and disabled children joined the SSI rolls in recent years and helped drive its federal costs from $12.5 billion in 1990 to an estimated $26.5 billion this year. Critics say rapid growth and poor oversight have invited widespread fraud and abuse of SSI, a Social Security Administration program that unlocks the door to Medicaid, food stamps and other welfare benefits for its 6 million recipients. And yet President Clinton's plans to overhaul the nation's welfare system do not include reforming SSI, other than to take money from it to help pay for a program that would move single mothers on Aid to Families with Dependent Children into the work force. 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Macy Hueckel 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  69  55  Denver  28  18  Omaha  29  28  
Baltimore  52  36  Los Angeles  70  48  Philadelphia  49  38  
Boston  43  35  Miami  80  73  Phoenix  66  44  
Chicago  28  25  Minneapolis  22  10  St. Louis  36  35  
Colombus  36  28  New Orleans  79  62  San Francisco  60  42  
Dallas  64  49  New York  48  36  Seattle  44  36  

~--~ ---·--oT------~---~-~~~ -----.,~----~-~ ~-------~~---­
-, ,--;-' 'I I I\' , 
r-------~-~--------------~--~.-.-----­

The Observer/Dan McKillop 

Signing up for Service 
Junior Peg Ward and senior Mike Preissler sign Grace Hall residents Jerry Hilton and Curt Cronister up for Christmas in April in the library concourse. 



BOG adds fax n1achine to SMC 
ByPATII CARSON 
News Writer 
Student government voted in favor of purchasing a fax ma­chine for student use, accord­ing to Student Body President Mary Beth Wilkinson at last night's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting. 
Student government is pur­chasing the fax machine for $831.80 plus the cost of the phone installation. 
BOG is solely responsible for all supplies and repairs associ­ated with the student fax ma­chine. 
The machine will be kept in the Haggar College Center and students can use their tele­phone billing numbers when 
using the fax machine. In Other Business 
•Staff 
Appreciation Day is Mar 23. BOG members dis­cussed the distribution of t­shirts and banners for the cele­bration. 

•
BOG member Melissa Peters will act as the chairperson for the graduate advising program committee. 



page3 
Accreditation committee to address student needs 
By JOSLIN WARREN 
News Writer 
The strong presence of Hall President Council members at the accreditation meeting Mon­day evening accurately ex­pressed the desire of students to solve many of the f{oblems
llrrllluiJtil'l*'if'l n1JN811 
of the university through their recommendations, according to Council Co-Chair Chris Can­zoniero. 
Various issues were dis­cussed between the accredita­tion panel and students. 
"We hit 24-hour spaces, stu­dent life, money allocation, how many organizations there are on campus, ethnic diversity, women's groups, class size, and the honor code," said Keenan Hall Vice-President Rich Palermo. "They wanted our comments so we told them how we felt about things." 
The accreditation committee intends to bring these issues to the administration in the hopes that things can be changed. In other HPC news: 
•The Undergraduate Educa­tion committee is sponsoring a new service called The Grapevine, a student peer advi­sor phone line. Upperclassmen are encouraged to sign up in their dorms to participate in this service. 
• 
The Troop ND Talent Show is March 18 and they are still looking for acts from various dorms. The first day of regis­tration and screening will be Monday, February 28 from 12:30-3 p.m. in Washington Hall. 

• 
Tickets go on sale Thursday for Romeo and Juliet for $7. The play will be held on March 19 in Washington Hall. 

• 
Applications for the Battle of the Bands, which is March 25 at 6 p.m., can be picked up at the Student Government of­fice in Lafortune. 

• 
A Prejudice Reduction workshop will be held on Sat­urday, March 19 in the Earth Science building from 9-4 p.m. 

• 
This Saturday from 10-1 a.m., Keenan will be starting a coffeehouse in their basement with free coffee and a live band. 




Government-Career Day brings in new agencies 
W!JAT TO DO WIT!J YOUR. Llf~? 
0  Are you a single, Catholic woman?  
0  Are you independent and full of life?  
0  Are you committed to a simple lifestyle?  

If you are, call Sr. Margaret Hoffelder (219-422-6675) to wonder together how your life and ours might join to serve the world's poor. 



TRAVEL EMERGENCY KIT 

By RICK BORST 
News Writer 
The biannual Government Career Day will be held today from noon until 4 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
"Government Career Day helps students to fmd out what agencies are out there, what they do, the career opportuni­ties in them, and procedures to find out about job openings," Career Counselor Judy Goebel said. 
Forty-six representatives from 26 federal and state agen­cies will be there to hand out brochures and answer stu­dents' questions for informa­tional purposes. 
"Some of the agencies are not the average ones that people know about," Goebel said. 
There are many besides the 
F.B.I. and the military, ranging from the Agricultural Stabiliza­tion and Conservation Services to the Veterans Administration, according to Goebel. 
All majors are encouraged to attend. 
"There is a whole gamut of career opportunities in gov­ernment," said Goebel. In addition to the traditional government and liberal arts backgrounds, agencies also need people with technical, sci­ence, and business oriented educations. 
"It's also good for freshmen and sophomores," said Goebel. "because they are still in the planning stages of careers." 
ICE~l~ lfjl,tG,i:li,1:45, 1q IIMIIIBift; lt15, fjl, i:ll, 7 ••t1i l1lfY IJIIIIPC111: 1:15, t1i, t4fi, q 
IYFAIBTI'~1t4fi,l:ll,i:ll,~ 
1.. ·-Y-HI,ta,7:1i,t4fi lfAUIY llllltPI11): t1i, tG, 7 ••ta 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 23, 1994 
women of color." 
Series Admissions participates with 
Clinton lin1its abortion funds 
groups, such as the National 
continued from page 1 
tional student from Bangladesh, agrees that cam­pus diversity is important to education. 
"Students must become more aware of campus diversity. Some students are here for four years and won't ever be exposed to another culture," Ahmed said. "Classes, could help in this effort, especially if multicultural themes were brought into the required writ­ing proficiency courses." 
"A simple knowledge of geog­raphy would also help," she said. "People have sometimes asked me if I have a television in India or if I travel in a ca­noe." 
Currently, less than six per­cent of the Saint Mary's student population is comprised of women of color, with 25 inter­national students and less than 20 non-traditional students, ac­cording to Ramirez. 
This has increased over the past ten years though from nearly zero percent. 
However, according to Ramirez the College has set no specific numerical goals for campus diversity. 
"Numbers are not relevant. We need to make changes to respond to a multicultural soci­ety," Ramirez said. "Knowledge is the only way to combat racism and stereotyping, not reliance on numbers." 
The Admissions Office is working hard to recruit new students of color to increase the diversity in the student population through high school visits, college fairs, direct mail­ings and on campus programs, according to Mary Pat Nolon, director of admission. 
"We have a successful pro­gram of finding perspective students of Hispanic, African­American, Native American and Asian background," Nolan said. "By traveling through 28 different states we develop more visibility. especially with 

the page yesterday's Observer misidentified two panel speakers. John Blandford, a graduate stu­dent who has tested positive for HIV, was seated on the right side of the picture while Michael Thurnhurr, a Notre Dame alumnus who tested positive for the virus while a student, was seated to the left. The related article also misspelled Blandford's last name. 
An article in yesterday's Observer incorrectly stated the arguement of panelist Professor Carla Johnson. Johnson said that the televi­sion series Seinfield satirizes sexism and uses devices to exagerrate and riducule sex­ism in society. The Observer 
the errors. 



Montego Bay  l•om$449  
Negrlf  from$479  
Cancun  rtO/I\$469  

•o.,•rtllrw tr.111 lndlanapolb ., Chk•••lll •olllw ~ltiiiV ctenlaa11ono lndvolw 
,__Cl!y & ODJt .... a IMtll, flor1dcl "Call for m.... lnt.....-natl.niH 
Hispanic Institute, Metro Achievement Center, Link Un­limited of Chicago and National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students in college fairs as part of a program to give women interested in col­lege access to information about different schools, includ­ing Saint Mary's. 
"To help us, we have a group of 300 alumnae volunteers who represent Saint Mary's at all of these college fairs in several towns." Nolan said. 
"At these fairs we may talk with students one on one and initiate conversations which may follow up with campus vis­its. Without these college fairs we might not otherwise meet these perspective students," she said. 
The admission department is currently considering revisions of admission materials to be more sensitive to women of color. This year focus groups will be formed and the revi­sions will take place in the next few years. 
"We want to review the whole publication series to con­vey an accurate picture of Saint Mary's yet still have some representation of campus diversity," Nolan said. 
"Every year we broaden our recruitment approaches to get the message of Saint Mary's out to more students and in turn diversify the student body. We are pleased so far but are still trying to improve," she added. 
In 1988 a diversification task force spent a year looking at where Saint Mary's had been and where the College was heading in cultural diversity. 
As a result of this extensive study, the admission's staff goal was to enroll a core group of 20 women of color at Saint Mary's. This goal, according to Nolan, was successful in the first five years and has built from then. 
"Our philosophy is to strive to increase the percentage by whatever means without hav­ing a specific numerical goal," Nolan said. 
On campus programs at Saint Mary's, such as El Campo, are interwoven with the admission programs for recruiting women of color. El Campo is a one week summer program for Hispanic students in early high school designed to allow them to learn more about college in general and themselves, ac­cording to Nolan. 
By RITA BEAMISH 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration, which wants to revoke the con­gressional ban on federally funded abortions, would use foreign aid for abortions only in limited circumstances, Agency for International Development Director Brian Atwood said Tuesday. 
The administration wants the flexibility to provide funds to treat women who have been raped or had botched abor­tions, which may mean per­forming an abortion. It also wants to include abortion in family planning counseling, Atwood said at a government­sponsored population confer­ence. 
An aide said pregnancies re­sulting from incest also would be considered for U.S.-funded abortions. 
"Every case could be differ­ent," Atwood said later at a news conference. "We would like to get a lot more flexibili­ty." 
He called abortion the "worst method of reproductive choice," but said a woman should have the right to make that choice. "Increasing access to contraceptive information and service is our first line of approach to addressing the tragedy of unsafe abortion," he said. 
Amplifying Atwood's re­marks, AID spokesman Howard Salter said, "This agency does not intend to fund abortion" as a method of birth control, but instead will stress family plan­ning education and the use of contraceptives. However, administration officials have decided that cases of rape, incest or botched abortions would qualify as situations where abortions could be pro­vided, he said. 
The foreign aid bill the Clin­ton administration is pushing in Congress deletes the so-called Hyde amendment, a 20-year­old statute that bars federal funding for abortions. Because of the strict interpretation of the law, Atwood said, AID-sup­ported health clinics must turn away women seeking treatment for complications from botched abortions. 
· Although the Clinton admin­istration resumed the U.S. con­tribution to the United Nations Population Fund -suspended during the Reagan and Bush administrations because abor­tion was among the services provided -Atwood said "it makes us very uncomfortable" that the U.N. program provides assistance in China. 
He said China's population control policy is based on coer­cion, not choice. 
Spring Break Loan 
$300 minimum $300 maximum Deferred payments 
9.4% APR 
Students with good credit or no credit qualify No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 288-NDCU 
Independent of the University 

1 I\' 
Wednesday, February 23, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Women and married clergy possibility for future 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
News Writer 
The Catholic Church cannot continue excluding women and married clergy, according Fa­ther Richard McBrien. 
In order to improve the prob­lem of decreasing numbers of new ordinations, the Catholic Church will either have to be­come "a priestless Church" or it will have to change its rules of eligibility, McBrien said. 
The role of priests should be "open to all people who are qualified and recognized by their community as qualified," said the Crowley-O'Brien-Wal­ter Professor of Theology. 
McBrien, who has been a priest for thirty-two years, fo­cused on six ecclesiastical themes concerning the future of the Church. One theme was of the Church as a mystery or a sacrament and not just an institution. He quoted Pope Paul VI who spoke of the "hid­den presence of God" and the "unity created and sustained by the Holy Spirit" in the Church. 
In speaking of the patriotism 
TAN WITH THE BEST! sPEc t A+-)'\J 
Exclusive Tanning Spa· Suite 1A ,,, J\ ~TS -di'f 
Now r/ 
Unlimited $ ...J{.·~.
..

Tannin~ 35 
Expires: 3/10/94

1Mont 
20 Minute Bulbs • 36 Bulbs • Stereos • Facial Tanners • Cooling Systems 
Attention! 

Programming assistants needed for 1994-1995 
Two paid positions are available to students who want to improve student life by planning and implementing programs sponsored by student activities. 
Pick up an application in the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune) and return it by Thursday, March 3rd. 
Interviews will be conducted March 14th to 18th, so sign up for an interview when you tum in your 
application. 

Questions? Call Gayle Spencer at 631-7308. 

of the government of the Church, McBrien said that "re­newal and reform are essen­tial." 
"The anti-feminist face of the Catholic Church is the way its treats the women who work for it," he said in reference to lay employees, most of whom are women, according to McBrien. 
In order for the Church to improve itself, McBrien said, it must become "more conscience of its mission to practice what it preaches, more democratic, more responsive to local needs, and more aware of its own limitations." 
When asked about the Catholic character or Notre Dame, McBrien said that it should be "preserved, deep­ened, and enriched." It is a goal, not an achievement, ac­cording to McBrien, and it should never be sacrificed for academic integrity. 
The lecture, entitled, "The Future of the Church and Its Ministries" was Tuesday in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Dalsaso kicks off student lectures 
By MEG MURPHY 
News Writer 
Senior Megan Dalsaso used the analogy of riding a bike to the experiences of life last night while addressing the Saint Mary's community. 
She kicked off the first of three Sesquicentennial Student Lectures celebrating the 150th year. 
While riding a bike there is a certain path for each person that has been planned by God. There are blind curves and sometimes you fall off, but God, by the actions of friends and family, always helps you get back on, according to Dalsaso. 
"Saint Mary's teaches us that we can go anywhere and the teachers really believe that. They (the teachers) help us put our bikes on the right path," she said, tying in the celebra-
Peters announces '94-95 General Board 
Observer Staff Report 
Observer Editor-in-Chief-elect Jake Peters announced the members of the 1994-95 Gen­eral Board yesterday. 
The new board members will assume their duties immedi­ately after Spring Break. 
Joining 1994-95 Managing Editor John Lucas and Business Manager Joe Riley are editorial board members: 
• 
George Dohrmann, sports editor. Dohrmann is a junior American Studies major from Stockton, Calif. He is a resident of Dillon Hall and is currently sports editor. 

• 
Sarah Doran, news editor. Doran is a junior government major from Boca Raton, Florida. She lives in Lyons Hall and is currently associate news 


tion of the College's Sesquicen­tennial. 
Dalsaso explained that the ti­tle of her speech, "The World is My Classroom," was appropri­ate because after we leave the campus the world is our class­room. 
It started out as our bedroom when we realized how big it really was. Then it was when we realized the house, then the neighborhood and how big ev­erything really was, according to Dalsaso. 
Dalsaso said that it was im­portant for other students to see how a student at the point she is at in her life feels. 
"There are two kinds of peo­ple in ·life. Those who would rather remain as they are and not take hold of anything out­side of them, and those who turn circumstances into oppor­
editor. 
• 
Mary Good, accent editor. Good, a sophomore communi­cation and English literature double major at Saint Mary's, is from South Bend. She lives in McCandless Hall and is cur­rently Saint Mary's sports edi­tor and a news copy editor. 

• 
Beth Regan, Saint Mary's editor. Regan, a sophomore po­litical science and English dou­ble major at Saint Mary's, is from Lexington, Kentucky. She lives in Holy Cross Hall and is currently Saint Mary's news editor and an assistant news editor. 

• 
Scott Mendenhall, photo editor. Mendenhall is a sopho­more management information systems major from Kokomo, Ind. A resident of Zahm Hall, he is currently a staff photograph­er. 

• 
Suzy Fry, viewpoint editor. Fry is a freshman government and English major from La Mesa, Calif. A resident of Farley Hall, she is currently the view­point editor. 


Members of the Operations Board are: 
• Eric Lorge, advertising manager. Lorge, a sophomore accounting major, is from Cedarburg, Wisconsin. He lives 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents: 
ARaisinintheSun 
by Lorraine Hansbem 
Washington Hall University of Notre Dome Wednesday, February 23-Soturday, February 26, at 8:10 p.m. Sunday, February 27, at 2:30p.m. 
fKkets: $7 reserved; student and senior d'rscounts available Wednesday, Thursday ond Sunday Viso/MosterCard orders: 631-8128 
Directed by guest artist Kym Mo o r e 
tunities and keep their ap­pointment books open," she said. 
Dalsaso is an accounting ma­jor and all-American soccer player. She is the Vice Presi­dent of the Accounting Club, member of the Inter-Varsity Bible study group, and a mem­ber of Volunteers For Support of Admissions(VISA). 
The series will continue with two more lectures, according to Lynn O'Donnell, the Vice Presi­dent for Academic Affairs. 
Seniors Melissa Whelan and Anna Marie Tabor will speak on March 22nd about their decision to come to Saint Mary's and how it has changed them. On April 19th, Emanuela Assenga, from Tanzania, Africa, will present "Saint Mary's Tradition: Crossing an Ocean," about her impression of Saint Mary's. 
in Flanner Hall and is currently a sales representative. 
• 
Tom Lillig, marketing man­ager. Lillig is a junior eco­nomics and Italian major from Oak Park, Ill. He lives in Ca­vanaugh Hall and is currently a sales representative. 

• 
Ryan Maylayter, advertising design manager. Mayalater is a sophomore physics and com­puter science double major from Valparaiso, Ind. He lives in Stanford Hall and is current­ly assistant advertising design manager and assistant systems manager. 

• 
Jackie Moser, production manager. Moser is currently enrolled in the freshman year of studies and is from Rochester, Minnesota. She lives in Breen Phillips Hall and is currently a design editor. 

• 
Sean Gallavan, systems manager. Gallavan is a fresh­man biochemistry major from Upper Marlboro, Maryland. He lives in Grace Hall and has no previous experience with The Observer. 

• 
Kristen Martina, controller. Martina is a junior accounting major at Saint Mary's from Brookfield, Ill. She lives in Le Mans Hall and has no previous experience with The Observer. 



,~-.--;-I -.-, 
page6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 23, 1994 
Jackson labels crtme bill 
Clinton pushes for lifelong learning 
facist; overly punitive 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Jesse Jackson denounced the Senate crime bill Tuesday as overly punitive, calling its re­quirements for severe sentenc­ing and more prisons harbin­gers of "the most fascist period of our history." 
"We have a mock-tough Senate crime bill, filled with bumper-sticker gimmicks that will waste money and have no effect on crime," Jackson told the House Judiciary Commit­tee's crime panel during a hearing Tuesday on an alterna­tive measure authored by Rep. Craig Washington, D-Texas. 
Washington's bill, supported by the Congressional Black Caucus, focuses on crime pre­vention, and Acting Deputy At­torney General Jo Ann Harris praised it for doing so. 
"Anyone who would forgo an opportunity to prevent a crime in order to wait to punish the criminal after the fact can try to explain that choice to the vic­tim," she testified. 
The Senate approved the crime measure last year, but the Congressional Black Caucus delayed passage in the House because of concerns over such provisions as new mandatory minimum sentences, billions for new regional prisons and the so-called three-strikes-you're­out proposal. 
The latter would imprison for life anyone convicted in federal court of a third violent or drug­related felony, and Jackson said it would disproportionately af­fect minorities. Clinton has sup­ported it in general, while Attorney General Janet Reno has cautioned against a too­broad measure that would fill scarce prison space with ex­pensive, geriatric inmates. 
"As we know, these laws will disproportionately affect African Americans and Lati­nos," Jackson said, adding: "This could be the most fascist period of our history." 
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Joseph R. Biden Jr., D-Del., defended his part of the Senate bill, saying it contains many prevention programs Washington supports, such as after-school activities for young people, new community police officers and drug treatment for prisoners. 
The punitive aspects that stole the headlines came from "screwy amendments" added on the Senate floor that made federal cases out of most gang­related and gun-related crimes, he said. 
"Let's not take a really solid proposal and because of a half­dozen screwy proposals, trash the whole thing," Biden said. 
Judge to rule on Naval Acadamy cheating scandal 
By CASSANDRA BURRELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Four dozen midshipmen asked a judge Tuesday to block the Navy from holding disci­plinary hearings in the biggest cheating scandal in the history of the U.S. Naval Academy. 
Lawyers for the midshipmen asked the judge to grant them a preliminary injunction that would stop all proceedings until the court rules on a law­suit they filed Feb. 10. 
U.S. District Judge Stanley Harris said he could rule as early as Wednesday on the re­quest. 
As many as 133 members of the academy's Class of 1994 may have gotten an advance look at an electrical engineer­ing test in December 1992, a violation of the school's honor code, which prohibits midship­men from lying, cheating or stealing. 
Eighty-one midshipmen con­fessed, but most "repeatedly lied until confronted with irrefutable proof of their involvement," said a Naval inspector general's report released last month. 
The midshipmen claim Navy officials coerced confessions out of them by screaming and cursing during questioning and threatening them with courts­martial and prison terms. 
In their suit, the midshipmen also claim that investigators improperly denied them access to attorneys during questioning and failed to advise them of their rights, including protec­tion against self-incrimination. 
Lawyers for the students contended the Navy improperly set aside the academy's regular hearing process and substitut­ed another one. 
"They've changed the rules and shifted the scales so that the midshipmen's right to due process is severely hampered," Charles Gittins, an attorney for the midshipmen, told the judge. 
The Navy has asked Harris to dismiss the case, saying none of the midshipmen's rights have been compromised and the hearing process would be fair and impartial. 
SENIORS ! After graduation tak a year off with us ! 
,---W~1Ue1>oking fo~/~~n and wo~~o~e or older ~~terested in volunteeri~ _cq•eat'Of service with the . needy an[margin~ "' /~......__ i / / 
Volunteers;Ii~e together\with eithe~rlst Brothers, isters, or Priests an,d work as teac~ers (prim and secondary no Certification needed), soci'Jll worke child care worke and 
Parish IJ]inisters. · I  ! I  
/Provide~ 1 I  1 1  1  

, Take lyear off between~ 
and ~atever and treat Flf 
to an ~xperience of a li ime. 
I 
1 


·'-----·---.\ L_ --__\ 

By CAROLE FELDMAN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton pushed "lifelong learning" Tuesday as the key to strengthening the economy and preparing Amer­ica for the next century. But in an interview, he said the fed­eral government can do only so much in solving some of educa­tion's most pressing problems. 
Education traditionally has been a state and local issue in the United States, and Clinton acknowledged as much as he addressed a broad range of schooling matters: 
On school violence, he said, "We can provide the supporting tools. How to do it clearly is the function of local leadership." 
On inequities in educational financing: "The federal gov­ernment provides a relatively small share of the overall school budget." 
On the high rate of high school dropouts: "States should be keeping up with dropouts more." He said "mostly state funding and local strategies" should be used to reach them. 
With the administration's Goals 2000 legislation headed for a joint congressional con­ference committee and the El­ementary and Secondary Edu­cation Act scheduled for House debate Thursday, the White House set aside Tuesday for ed­ucation. 
Clinton jogged in the morning with community college stu­dents, addressed 1,500 college and university presidents and administrators and met with education reporters. He also signed an executive order establishing a 24-member ad­visory commission to look for ways to improve learning op­portunities for Hispanic Ameri­cans. 
"If we really want America to grow jobs and increase earn­ings, we will have to dramati­cally improve the levels of edu­cation of the American people," Clinton told members of the American Council on Education. 
"We have to start with the preschoolers but we can't stop with the adults." 
He used charts to show that the average earnings rise with the education level of workers and unemployment rates drop with education. 
"It is clear that the future of our economy, and therefore the fabric of our society, is in no small measure in your hands," he told the college officials. 
The president offered a seven-point "lifelong learning" agenda to help make America's educational system responsive to the "demands of the times." 
It includes: -Helping children begin school healthy. -Higher standards for public 
education. -Making college more ac­cessible. 
-Helping young people earn money for college by perform­ing community service. 
-School-to-work programs. -Re-employment programs for those who lose their jobs. 
-Challenging society to be­come more involved in learning initiatives. 
In his speech and the inter­view with education reporters, Clinton said it was ironic that prisons could have sparkling li­braries and other facilities, while school buildings were in lousy shape. 
"Why? Because you can take a state into federal court and make them build buildings like this for prisoners and your stu­dents don't have any such con­stitutional claims right now," he said. 
He told reporters that he would favor offering an incen­tive to school districts that try to maintain their buildings and equipment. But he sounded a cautionary note. "You don't want to shift money back to dis­tricts that don't really need it," he said. 
Clinton said there was no question that inequities still ex­isted in education funding. "Even if the money is fairly rea­sonably distributed, is it ad­equate?" he asked. 
CAMPUS BANDS! 
March 25, 1994 Applications for this huge 
BATTLE OF THE BANDS 
are now available in 203 LaFortune Entries are limited so apply now! 

I I I, I, I 1 I I I ,-1 • I I I I 1 ,' 1, I/, I I' 1 o. I I' I 1 • 'I I I I I • It 1 'I J I' I I • I I I • 

VIEWPOINT 

23, 1994 page? 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 

Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... KenyaJohnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advenising Manager .................... Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letrers and inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Darne/Saim Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  63I-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  63I-454I  Day Editor/Production  63I-5303  
Business Office  63I-53I3  Advenising  63 I -6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  63I-5323  Office Manager  631-747I  

tversity essential at Saint Mary's? 
Today, it seems to be a given that diversity is a benefit to a college campus. But why? 
Is it an undeniable truth that diversity leads to better-edu­cated students? Is there still a place for a predominantly white, Catholic institution? Or a historically black school? 
There is no easy answer. But it seems appropriate for an educational institution to allow students the perspective that other cultures provide and to prepare them for a world that is far from homogenous. 
Projections show that if birth rates and immigration patterns hold true, white Americans will no longer be a majority of this nation's population in 60 years. 
At Saint Mary's, whites make up 96 percent of the student body. Increasing diversity should continue to be a priority pursued aggressively and actively. 
The College has proved it can change. Ten years ago the population was more homogeneous, but more financial aid has brought in women from a variety of socioeconomic back­grounds. 
The same must now be done to increase the number of women of different races and cultures. But increasing diver­sity is not as easy as bringing in more Black, Hispanic, Asian and Native American students. 
• 
Saint Mary's must be able to offer these women role mod­els by recruiting minority faculty and administrators and ex­panding its current programs on multiculturalism in the classroom for current faculty. 

• 
Minority student recruitment must also be more active. Recruitment should be focused in minority areas where Saint Mary's name is virtually unrecognized. 

• 
Saint Mary's should work to provide more programming for the five to six percent of minority students already on campus and then to improve activities for them. 

• 
The Office of Multicultural Affairs must begin to convey that multiculturalism and the office's services are for all, not just for minorities. 


With recruitment of students of all races, creeds and colors, the College will provide its students with a representative view of what the world looks like -a view that is not all white, but rather a colorful one. 
DOONESBURY 
MR. ~MMAY HAV8HA/l70 &N{J()f?EMOMfNTARYflrl/3N.­RA~ 8UTtf)()K AT THe 
PRIC/3 MYatt:NTHA'3 HAD TO PAY. .. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Procedures don't reflect safety purpose 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to voice my con­cern about Notre Dame Security. I am hoping that by writing, perhaps some fellow graduate or student will clarify for me the function of this "or­ganization." 
As a freshman, I was under the impression that Security was on campus to protect its students and faculty. A few re­cent occurrences have led me to believe that Security exists to extract a vendetta. 
My husband is both a student and employee of the University. As an off-campus student, he is required to travel back and forth several times weekly. When he is able, my husband takes the bus between University Village and campus. However, as I work, we share a car, and the bus service runs limited hours to the Village, he must sometimes take our car. 
Several times my husband has tried to get on-campus to drop off papers, etc., and even though he had our infant daughter with him, in some­times brutal weather, Security refused him flat out. My daugh­ter can be a terror, but I seri­ously doubt that she poses any harm to the Notre Dame family. 
Also, my husband and I have both been ticketed at the visi­tor's lot. I fail to see why Notre Dame tickets me, as I am, in fact, a visitor. Furthermore, when my husband received two tickets spaced three minutes apart, we realized that Notre Dame Security first towed our vehicle and then issued the citations. 
If my husband and I could af­ford a parking sticker, we would purchase one. However, Notre Dame makes no conces­sions to allow us to perhaps even pay this fee over a period of time. The $60 may not sound like much, but my daughter is already on Welfare programs, and despite the fact that both my husband and I work, I get paid a minimum salary. 
Children are expensive, and so are groceries. With good bud­geting, that $60 could get our groceries for two weeks. 
The University has threat­ened to add these tickets to my husband's outstanding bill. We have had to pay the towing and storage fees for the car. I say let us make up the difference and get on with our lives. This seems like such a trivial issue for Notre Dame to insist upon. The $60 means a lot to us; I have to wonder how much use that money would do the University. 
Notre Dame has done a lot for both my husband and I, and I would like to think that he means more to them than $60. Let Security focus on helping us out, rather than hoping to catch its students in some illicit act. It says very little for how much Notre Dame trusts its students. 
NATALIE KUHTMANN­
HASKELL 
Class of 1993 
University Village 


SHUNN/31? BY H15 (,[}/.,I-E,46Ufi.S, /?&VIta? EftH/5 5TUI?l3NP3,AE!AN­IXJVW8YHIS tMPtoYI3R, A PARIAH IN H150tuN t:Ur1MUN17Y... 
\ 
... TH&BU7T 
OFI,OOO 
5/CJ< J(J($, 
RIPICUta), 
5PATUPON... 
/ 

''Iread the newspaper avid­
ly. It is my one form of continuous fiction." 
--Aneurin Bevan (attrib.) 
I l I I I I I • \ • • • \ , \ I 1 \ , 1 , \ \ I \ ' , I ' \ I \ I I I • ~ o I I \ I o o o \ I I \ , o I ' I \ o \ I 1 1 \ I • \ \ ' I I I I ~ \ \ I ' \ \ I I
0 1 
0 

I I I • I I\ I I\ I I I I I\ I I I', I o \I\\ \ I • '\\I'\ I\\\ \I ' '' ''' '' o '''',I 'o I\\ o I'''' 
pageS Wedensday, February 23,1994 
VIEWPOINT 
BONG MIQUIABAS OOMESTRUCK 
On apathy and self-absorption, some things never change 
There is nothing new about Notre Dame students being ac­cused of apathy. It is a criti­cism waged against the young adults of the 1990s nearly every day, and the same could be said of our peers of the 1970s and the 1920s. 
The danger, however, of ac­cepting this seeming fact of young adult life lies in the valid­ity we accord it by mere accep­tance. That is, we should examine the basis for calling someone apathetic, for even if those charged with apathy do not regard it as important (hence the description appears to fit) it may simply be inaccu­rate. 
Indeed, Notre Dame stands as a place where students them­selves feel apathy runs wild, es­pecially with respect to pseudo­campus issues. I know that when I began my career here in the late summer of 1990, I was hopeful that true dialogue or even activism might erupt. That first year raised my hopes. If nothing else, the honest ex­change of divergent ideas excit­ed me. 
There was the group Students United for Respect (SUFR) largely composed of African American and Latino students who demanded for greater administrative attention to minority concerns. Later that same year, considerable debate broke out as to the justice of war with Iraq, not really divid­ing the campus as much as heightening awareness about the gravity of war. 
Since then, serious campus is­sues have barely lingered for more than a few series of letter homosexual students in the dorms my sophomore year and the election-driven debate about political issues my junior year failed to spark any year­long interest. 
wars in the The Observer.  The  
talk  of  safe  havens  for  
LETTER TO THE EDITOR  

Even the old campus stand-by arguments -abortion and parietals -degenerate into uninspiring diatribes that could be spewed from the mouth of any babe. More distressing still is the underdeveloped dialogue of serious issues such as date rape and the relative absence of student opinions on current debates. 
For instance, what do stu­dents think about the Catholic character of Notre Dame, a question that student govern­ment has devoted its year-long report to the Board of Trustees to examine? Or, what do stu­dents want done to expand the amount of 24-hour space? Are you satisfied with the proposal to merely extend parietals? Publicity for these issues exists; we just choose to remain silent. 
But before I shake my head in sorrow at the muteness that seems to afflict the campus, I must admit that the recent elec­tion of Dave Hungeling and Matt Orsagh indicates a positive force in the way of students 'speaking up' for something. It matters little that, at best, a vote for Hungeling-Orsagh was tantamount to a fun way to express discontent. 
What matters more is that people finally cast a ballot for a clear break from business as usual. And I hardly think that a vote for Hungeling-Orsagh sig­nals a decline in our con­science. Rather, it might testify to an awakening. God knows that, on this campus, an elec­tion with that outcome consti­tutes a revolution. 
Which is not to say that Hungeling and Orsagh must bear the burden of revolutioniz­ing our lives. Quite the con­trary, the burden of proof belongs to those of us who, either with earnest enthusiasm or self-amused curiosity, voted for them. For the person who voted for them can either look the part of a motivated student or an insincere cynic. We can choose to be the former or will­fully or apathetically become the latter. 
And regrettably, if we choose apathy, then I think that closer scrutiny of student life here will reveal something far more dis­concerting about ourselves than plain apathy: that people here do care -but about themselves foremostly. 
It sounds like an irresponsible claim, but even the great thinkers of our history have al­luded to our basic inclination to satiate self-interest. Being hu­mans, we fall into the same category. But just because it appears to be in our nature does not make it right. 
Is it not more deplorable to be outwardly apathetic toward communal, campus issues while fastidiously attending to our private whims? Does not Catholic teaching advise us against these tendencies? 
Whether the Church says so or not may be of little conse­quence to you, but look at how strangely misdirected our ener­gies are. We are more interest­ed in excelling at our studies while not making time to listen to another person's problems with those studies. We devote more time to Sega and personal fitness than we do to exercising our minds on issues of campus ahd universal importance. 

And when people do complain about things, these problems almost exclusively deal with their own lives. With all this energy devoted to oneself. it is little wonder that people feel apathetic about issues and interests beyond themselves. 
Basically, we usually promise to help others so long as that activity does not exact a loss of our self-absorbed time, time that we convince ourselves is necessary to advance our sup­posed likelihood of success and overall happiness. All I can say is that most religions and rules of morality dictate that we tran­scend the material and self­absorbed, reaching instead for the meaningful and eternal. 
So the next time a campus is­sue begins to arise, let us look at why we respond to it the way we do as opposed to how we come down on it. Do we scoff at its overblown significance or lavish our self-interested view­points upon it or do we say that the issue does not affect us directly so it does not matter? 
If we respond in any of the ways described above, then I think we are guilty of some­thing far worse than apathy. Call it self-absorptiOn. ,·~In ;ml' 
Bong Miquiabas is a senior in the Colege of Arts and Letters. His column appears monthly. 
Can Notre Dame really address evolution without compromise? 
Dear Editor: 

Most students at Notre Dame believe there is compelling evi­dence for evolution. They be­lieve that biological evolution pretty much has things under raps with the exception of some missing links. The reality is that evolution doesn't even have links to make a connection to begin with. Upon further scrutiny of evolution's claims, inevitably the evolutionary evi­dence dissolves. What was once thought to be a robust link invariably appears thoroughly corroded upon further inspec­tion. 
Typically, students here are not taught the scientific, theo­logical and sociological difficul­ties with Charles Darwin's theo­ry. Consequently, Notre Dame students typically do not recog­nize circular reasoning when it comes to Darwinism. Instead of having a healthy disrespect for this circular reasoning, they generally feel compelled by it. They have theological objec­tions soft-peddled in theology classes where the professor makes it sound like the evi­dence for evolution is conclu­sive and easily accommodates evolution into his now elastic theology. Students need to realize the shortcomings of evo­lution and that there are better models to explain the evidence than the evolutionary one. 
In order to illustrate some of the problems with evolution (specifically, Notre Dame's teaching of evolutionism), I have three basic questions that I am asking the Anthropology department faculty to answer in this letter. Since the Anthropology faculty believe that Anthropology is a bona fide science, I'm sure they would be happy to answer my questions 
'students need to 

realize the short­comings of evolution and that there are better models to explain the evidence than the evolu­tionary theory one.' 
and elucidate to the student body some of the tenants of evolutionism. The quotes I make in citing evolutionary the­ory come from the fifth edition of Humankind Emerging by Bernard Campbell which is the text used in Anthropology 329. 
• Campbell writes concerning our human condition, "The pos­sibility of choice of a sexual partner means that partners can be friends, and it also means that society may deter­mine sexual alliances" (p.244). So is this what the possibility of choice means? So science just "proved" it is OK to fornicate and have open marriages pro­vided it is consensual? 
According to Campbell's logic, the possibility that evolution is false would mean that society may determine evolution to be false! It's too bad Campbell, in his infinite wisdom, wasn't there on Mt. Sinai to straighten out God when God gave the Ten Commandments. He should have told God to be more toler­ant about sexual mores (and to be an evolutionist no doubt). Apparently even after teaching this bankrupt morality for four editions, Campbell has yet to realize that in being an absolute relativist (as he cer­tainly is), he contradicts himself absolutely. 
• 
Why should evolution be called a science? I noted a sec­tion of the text purported to give "mathematical evidence" for mutation and natural selec­tion. I turned to the section and was dismayed to find no equations. Instead, this section read like propaganda, full of non sequiturs -just like the rest of the book. Is it fair to the students to tell them that they are doing science and then offer them none of the relevant even if simplified mathematics? If you will agree that astrology is not a science, although it leaches off astronomy for some information, how can you assert that evolution is a sci­ence, even if it too uses infor­mation gained from biology, paleontology etc.? Surely it is not sufficient to say that it is a science because most scientists believe in it. That would be cir­cular reasoning. 

• 
Finally where does the theo­ry of evolution put African Americans relative to the Western workplace? Campbell writes, "Africa ... generated ... anatomically modern humans" 


(p.445). After the book ubiqui­tously displays black Africans in the most primitive technological settings (lots of spears, scantily clad physiques, diminutive vo­cabulary, etc) it says, "One of the best relics we have of early humans is modern humans. It is because we still have popula­tions with relatively simple technologies that we are able to make so many deductions about the behavior of early humans" (p. 515). How can the reader escape from this apart from the conclusion that African Americans are "relics" somewhere intermediate between Westerners (the most technologically advanced peo­ple) and some Lucy-type chimp­like creature that evolutionary theory says is our ancestor? 
' How can the reader escape ... from the conclusion that African 
Americans are 'relics' somewhere intermediate between Westerners and 
some Lucy-type chimp­like creature that evolu­tionary theory says is our ancestor?.' 
So if Westerners evolved from Africans and then had natural selection grooming them in a high tech, Western culture manner for thousands of years, where does this put the average African American? Assuming this persoh's lineage was im­ported to the U.S... within the past three hundred years from Africa,where it was indigenous, does this mean that the average African American is caught in a cultural time warp and thus can't, or should not be expected to, compete on a level playing field with indigenous Westerners, who have ostensi­bly been in a Western environ­ment for hundreds of thousands of years? Is it merely a coinci­dence that the unique role Africans play in your widely taught theory has any correla­tion to the African American problem of leading (per capita) in the most unenviable charac­teristics: illegitimacy, fornica­tion, welfare dependence, unemployment and violent crime? Does it surprise you that a disproportionate number of blacks display these uncivi­lized or animalistic behaviors? If evolutionary theory is wrong, are we not doing great injury to the African American commu­nity in particular by coddling a damaging self-fulfilling social theory? 
Your response to these ques­tions would clear some of the intellectual obstacles I and other graduate students see in the theory of evolution and would facilitate our serious consideration of the claims of your department. 
PIEDER BEELI Off Campus Graduate Student ofPhysics 


----:-,-l ~ ' I \ > \ ' • • ' \ ' \ \ \ \ ~' 'T-;-\-~ \-, 1-:--­
ACCENT 
Wednesday, February 23, 1994 page 9 
In search of the American dream 
..A Raisin in the Sun" raises important social issues 
ByKJUSKAZLAUSKAS play becomes powerful. Sadly, Accenr Writer the story of 'A Raisin in the Sun' is as common and power­
Continuing the celebration of ful today as it was when it was Black History Month, "A Raisin first produced 35 years ago. We in the Sun," Lorraine hope that our audience will Hansberry's sensitive portrait leave the theatre asking how of an African-American family's long this story will remain com­attempt to secure a portion of mon." the American dream, will be The beginning of the poem 
presented Feb. 23-27 "Harlem" by Langston Hughes (Wednesday -Sunday) by the provided the foundation for the University of Notre Dame com­play: "What happens to a munication and theatre depart­dream deferred? Does it dry up ment. like a raisin in the sun?" In "A 
A noteworthy achievement, Raisin in the Sun," Hansberry this is the first play presented portrays an African-American by the department consisting of family in the early days of the 
a pre-dominantly African­civil rights movement trying to American cast. According to decide what the American Bruce Auerbach, associate pro­Dream means to them -or if it fessional specialist and director is meant for them. The death of of Notre Dame theatre, the pro­the family's patriarch, Walter duction is a chance to draw stu­Lee Younger, has upset the dents into the theatre expe­family structure. A $10,000 rience who previously may check from a life insurance pol­have felt it was not open to icy adds to the remaining them. Youngers' turmoil. Each has a 
"Although we have had a pol­dream that could be realized by each imbued with a full range West, and the Lincoln Center were designed by Richard E. icy in place for a long time not the money, but it is not enough of strengths and flaws. Theatre in New York City. She Donnelly, associate professional to cast according to race, we to fund the dreams of all of Hansberry's classic play has has also worked at the Negro specialist in communication have been faced with precon­Walter Lee's survivors. been compared to "Death of a Ensemble Company, the and theatre. The setting was ceived notions about casting Salesman," "A Long Day's Juilliard School and the NYU designed by Auerbach and the that have kept some students The patriarch's son, Walter, Journey into Night," and the Tisch School of the Arts. She is lighting by Kevin Dreyer, assis­away," he says. "We consider is a young man ready to ex­"Glass Menagerie" by numer-pleased to be a part of this tant professional specialist. this play an invitation to draw plode. His patience is worn, and ous scholars, and Frank Rich landmark theatre project at ND. Performances will take place 
students into the program while his frustration is showing. He praised it in the "New York from Feb. 23 {Wednesday) to at the same time alerting the hates his job and dreams of Times" for its "muscular po-Moore approaches "A Raisin Feb. 26 (Saturday) at 8:10 p.m. Michiana community to the owning a liquor store. His etry, robust humor, and faith in in the Sun" as an exploration of and Feb. 27 (Sunday) at 2:30 opportunities that exist in the­mother is not sure a liquor human perseverance." black life in America. She is in-p.m. in Washington Hall on atre at Notre Dame." store is a good choice, and she trigued by the way in which campus. Tickets are $7 for re­
Auerbach also sees the pro­dreams to own her own home Directing the play will be Hansberry's play propels her served seats and are available duction of "A Raisin in the Sun" with a garden. Walter's sister guest artist Kym Moore who is audience into a critical re-eval-at the door or in advance at the as a chance for Notre Dame's wants to go to medical school. a writer and director with a uation of the American Dream. LaFortune Student Center Box theatre program to raise some Each dream must be financed, wide variety of experience in Intrinsic to the dream is the di-Office. important social issues. "We and as a result, a self-inflicted both academic and professional chotomous question," Is the are approaching this play as a Catch-22 seemingly stands theatre. Currently , she is an psycho-spiritual sacrifice worth Student and senior citizen glimpse of a recurring theme in poised to follow the decisions Assistant Professor of Theatre the material gain?" This is an discounts are available for the American life," he says. "It that must be made. at Indiana State University, energizing concept for Moore Wednesday, Thursday and would be a poignant play if the This play has achieved much where she will direct and has fueled her creativity Sunday performances at $5. story were unique, but it is a notoriety throughout its thirty­Strindberg's "Miss Julie" and since directing her first play, For MasterCard and Visa or­common story, and as such, the five year existence. Critics have her own play "The Date" later Albee's "The American Dream," ders, call (219) 631-8128. 
praised the play for presenting this spring. Moore has directed almost 15 years ago. 
Donnelly: The man behind the costumes for "A Raisin in the Sun" 
By LISA MONACO mation about the characters in a non-obvious Accent Writer manner. He said "the characters (in "A Raisin in the Sun") are one of a kind. They are emotional­
Richard E. Donnelly, Associate Professional ly interesting." Specialist in the Communication and Theatre The costumes for "A Raisin in the Sun" are to Department, is the man behind the Costume and represent the late 50's and 60's. After much make-up design for the "A Raisin in the Sun" shopping around, Donnelly found clothes in vin­production. tage shops in Chicago that met this need. 
His first involvement with Notre Dame was in However, he had to have a chauffeur uniform 1987, when the university asked him to join the specifically made to fit the actor who wears a 44 staff of "Amadeus." While still on the faculty at extra long. There are ten characters, some have Purdue, Donnelly designed the costumes for this multiple costumes while others have only one. production and everyone thereafter. Upon Overall, there are 34 costume changes as the 
changes in the Communications and Theatre play takes place over several \Yeeks. . Department, a position became available and Donnelly said he is pleased with the final prod­Donnelly joined the faculty at Notre Dame three uct. He said this is a "realistic show where the years ago. details are true to the period. I am happy with 
Donnelly especially enjoyed designing for "King the styles and accessories." 
Lear" because the set was built completely from Donnelly is not affected at all by the fact that beginning to end. No items were rented or pur­the characters are predominantly African­chased. American. He said, "Race is irrelevant. The 
The production of the "Heidi Chronicles" last characters are what is important. We work from year was intriguing because the play covers a 20 the script." year period in which the evolution of the cos­Donnelly's next project is "You Can't Take it 
tumes is evident. with You" which will take place in April. In the Choosing the perfect costumes is an in-depth summer, he will be working at the Outdoor 
process. Donnelly conducted extensive research Theatre in Spring Green, Wisconsin where they for the "A Raisin in the Sun" production by look­perform classical plays. He will work as a cutter ing through the magazines Time, Life and Ebony where his duty is to interpret the two-dimen­
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

for the correct styles and fashion worn in the late sional design and transform it into a three­
"A Raisin in the Sun," being performed Thursday through Sunday at 
1950's and 60's. His goal was to convey infor-dimensional costume. 
Washington Hall, depicts one family's struggle to achieve their dreams. 


-
I ~ ,-,-,~,-,-,-,--~---,-,-, • o • I I I I • I I If' j 1 I I I • I I I I I 1 I I I I I 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS 
Wolverine's on a role, defeat Illini 
No. 3 Michigan 79, Illinois 70 

Jalen Rose scored 17 of his 24 points in the second half and No. 3 Michigan ran its winning streak to nine Tuesday night 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
with a 79-70 victory over Illi­nois. 
The win gave Michigan (20-4, 12-2 Big Ten) its third consecu­tive 20-win season and fourth under coach Steve Fisher. Michigan is 6-0 against Illinois (14-8, 7-6) in the Fab Five Era. 
That's mainly due to the per­formances of Rose. He scored 28 points against the Fighting Illini in a 7 4-70 victory on Jan. 23 and has averaged 23.0 against them for his career. 
Illinois' leading scoring, Deon Thomas, who was held to six points in the first meeting, scored 16, 2.3 below his con­ference average. 
T.J. Wheeler, who also had 16 points for Illinois, scored the last nine points of the first half and the first two of the second half for the Illini. 
It only helped cut the deficit to 36-31 and that was as close as they would get. 
A three-point play by Rose gave the Wolverines their biggest lead, 60-42, with 11:36 remaining. 
Two 3-pointers by Richard Keene and one by Jerry Hester sparked a 13-2 Illinois burst that cut it to 62-55 with 7:31 left. 
Hester's basket with 34 sec­onds remaining sliced the Michigan lead to 75-70. 
The Wolverines, who went 

2:38 with only a free throw by Rose, closed it out with a basket by Jimmy King and two free throws by Juwan Howard. 
No.5 Connecticut 74, Miami 49 

Donyell Marshall scored eight of his 19 points in a 34-second span Tuesday night and No. 5 Connecticut beat Miami 74-49, the Hurricanes' school-record 13th straight loss. 
With the victory, the Huskies (23-3, 13-2 Big East) moved within one-half game of clinch­ing at least a tie for the league championship. 
Marshall, who was held to five points in the first half, just missed continuing his streak of 23 consecutive games with 20 or more points. He also grabbed nine rebounds. 
Connecticut led 49-37 with 

8:44 remaining when Marshall was fouled by Steve Edwards, who argued the call until he was whistled for a technical. 
--~­



ranked Owls beat Duquesne 65-of 500 for his career. 61 Tuesday night. Duquesne freshman Tom 
Brunson was 6-for-10 from 3-Pipkins matched Brunson's six point range and he, Aaron 3-pointers and finished with 22 McKie and Eddie Jones ac-points for Duquesne (14-9, 7-6). counted for all but four of Tern-Derrick Alston had 17 points pie's points. and Effrem Whitehead added 
McKie had 19, including two 13, including Duquesne's final free throws with eight seconds five points. left that put the game out of Temple led 39-26 at halftime, reach, and Jones had 11 for but Duquesne cut it to 52-47 Temple (20-4, 12-3), which won with five minutes left. its third straight since coach Brunson, who hit shots with John Chaney threatened hands in his face all night, Massachussetts coach John scored Temple's next seven Calipari after a Feb. 13 road poil'lts as the lead reached eight loss and was suspended for a with 57 seconds left. game. Whitehead's 3-pointer with 10 
Chaney reached the 20-win seconds left brought Duquense mark for the 17th time in 22 within two before McKie's fou! seasons and is two victories shy shots iced the game. 
Marshall hit all four free throws and then nailed an 18-foot jumper as Connecticut retained possession. 
Following a Miami miss, Mar­shall finished off the ensuing fast break with a layup, giving him eight points in 34 seconds, and Connecticut had a 57-37 lead. 
Donny Marshall added 13 points and eight rebounds for the Huskies. 
No. 8 Temple 65, Duquesne 61 

Rick Brunson scored a season­high 31 points, including all but eight of Temple's 26 second­half points, and the eighth-
Photo courtesy ol T em pie Sports Information 

Junior guard Rick Brunson poured in a game high 31 points to lift the Owls over a stubborn Duquesne squad in Atlantic-10 action. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
L...-_N_O_T_IC_ES_----1, 
USED TEXTBOOKS 
Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard 
'233-2342/10-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
Need a paper typed? I'll do it very quickly & cheaply! Susan x1285 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
Jean Jean the Typing Machine is BACKI Call 18858 for fast, friendly on-campus service. 
FOR SALE: RND. TRIP PLANE TICKET to Minneapolis for spring break -dirt cheap! JASON X1593 
ILOST & FOUND I 
DID YOU LEAVE YOUR KEYS IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE? WE HAVE A KEY RING WITH 4 KEYS ON IT WITH THE NUMBER 140 ON 2 OF THEM. COME BY THE OBSERVER & ASK FOR SHIRLEY TO PICK THEM UP. 
To the Person who took my ID's in Loftus: YOU DON'T LOOK LIKE ME! And if you're not a cutie from Wisconsin, you're putting the Cheeseheads to shame! Please call X3690 and will negotiate. I am going through Linebacker withdraw­al! Sincerely, Backer Packer Fan. 
P.S. Maybe you should consider giving up your klepto urges for Lent! 
''LOST BIKE KEY" 
#on key is k8413 
please call 
X4022 
Coat left in Career & Placement about 1 1/2 weeks ago. Call 631-5200, ask for Katie. 
LOST: BROWN BARN JACKET @ McCormick's Thur. nile with my life in it...please retum, no ???s MOLLY 273-6591 
L-1-~-1\N_T_E_D_....J 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­MENT-fisheries. Many eam $2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­$6000+/mo. on fishing vessels. Many employers provide benefits. No exp. necessary! For more info call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584 
RIDE needed for 2 to St. Louis for Spring Break. Call Christian 
@1226 

Need ride to/from Baltimore area for 2-spring break. Will help w/gas, tolls.Call 634-2849!11 
WANTED: LOVE SEAT· SOFA BED. CALL 284-5395. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 
NEEDED: SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, 
Poughkeepsie pref. Will help$. Please call Brian or Jason x1130 
Wanted: A Used Car in Good Condition. Call4-2029. 
Need a Ride to Philly for Spring Break? Call Susan @ 284-5308 
Need Ride to Purdue this weekend. Courtney 2470 
Seeking ride to Cleveland or 1-80/90 travelers east, anytime THIS WEEKEND. Will pay for gas, tolls, etc. Call Matt x3444 going back to Minnesota over break? I need a ride! $$ for gas, tolls. call kory x3040 
PLEASE!! Ride needed for 2 to Florida Spring Break Call Mark x4018 
FOR RENT 
1, 2 & 3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1BDRM: $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO. AVAIL NOW. GILLIS PROPER­TIES 272-6306 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595 
THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ROOM NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3 BR, 2 Bath, Frplace, Full base­ment, 2 car garage, Walk to NO, $900/mo. Evenings: 616-471-7172 
SPRING BREAK TIME SHARE Orlando, Florida $700 -sleeps 8 bars, pools, lake 5 minutes from Disney call X2348 or X4508 
APT NEAR CAMPUS! Hickory Village 180/mo uti! pd, roommates Summer + 94-95 yr MUST SEE! 273-8369 
FOR SALE 
2 tix to PEARL JAM concert Mar 22 -Cleveland will take best offer. Mikex4116 
MACINTOSH CLASSIC II 4/BO, 2 MB RAM (EXPANDABLE TO 10). LIKE NEW. $550. 277-1463. 
TICKETS 
FOR SALE-2 b-ball tickets for Wed's game vs UNCI Call Katy x3850 
Spring Break plane ticket to Boston. REALLY CHEAP call alex x1679 
2 Alan Jackson tickets for sale for Sun Feb. 27 call 284-5252 
FOR SALE -1 Ticket to Los Angeles for Spring Break. Call Chris at x4-1069. 
PERSONAL 
ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. 
THE PRINCETON REVIEW WANTS YOU! Do you have high test scores? Are you energetic/dynamic? Can you communicate well? Want a fun part­time job? We're here on campus and have opportunities for part-time teaching positions. Pay starts at $11 an hour; no teaching experi­ence required. Call 
(800) 480-PREP for more informa­tion. 
GOVERNMENT CAREER DAY Learn about careers with federal and state government. ALL STUDENTS WELCOME! TODAY CCEI Lower Level Noon -4:00 p.m. 
Dismas is a New Beginning Dismas is Family Dismas is Community Dismas is for Dave McMahon Dismas is lor You Dismas is in the Library Concourse Thurs 9-12 a.m. and Sun. 5-8 p.m. 
MARCIA POWERS IS COOL!!!! 
BERNICE, THANK YOU FOR 21 GREAT YEARS!I!!III!IIII!II!!!! LOVE, BADIN HALL 
I REALLY need a ride home to the 
D.C. area for Spring Break-I'll help with gas and tolls and can drive stick. call Kathleen x4241 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­786-8373 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 

4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Med/legal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 
In a hurry... don't worry. FAX IT! 
at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center NEW LOWER PRICES! 

$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
Need Spring Break Cash?? 
1% interest loans $10-$250 
Stop by the Morrissey Loan Fund next to Info. Desk in Lafortune Mon.-Fri. 11:30-12:30 
Attention: 
'will be closed Fri., March 4 
'last day for Seniors to borrow is 
March1 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
Oh, Romeo, Romeo, Wherefore art thou Romeo???? 
Bibitty Bobitty bought a bat. 
Rob-Thanks for putting up with my stressballness lately, I promise I will get better soon.... 
Love you, Melanie 
Attention ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club Members: No class at Stepan this Thursday! We are going to Dan O'Day'sl Meet at the main cir­cle at 8:00. Ques? Call Laurie 4­3490, Karen 4-2110, or Daniella 284-4160. 
Need ride to UW-Madison for spg. brk. Will pay tolls,gas -Kevin (x3100) 
Sophomores!! 
Don't forget the Class dinner this Thursday at Bruno's. 
All you can eat and drink for only $4.0011 
Come for friends and fun. 
Also watch for the upcoming Sophomore Retreat. 
Sponsored by Sophomore Class. 

-

I I I I\\\'\\
----------------------------~------------------------~----'\ \\ ... \' \ \ 
Wednesday, February 23, 1994 The Observer • COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Three Kentucky players suspended 
By MIKE EMBRY 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 

After learning that three of his players were involved in a free-throw swapping scheme against Vanderbilt, Kentucky coach Rick Pitino hit each of them with one-game suspen­sions. 
Guard Travis Ford, center Gimel Martinez and forward Jared Prickett will not make the trip with the No. 7 Wildcats to play Tennessee on Wednesday night, Pitino said Tuesday. 
"This type of behavior cannot be tolerated from a Kentucky ballplayer," Pitino said. "It's important that all the kids that look up to Kentucky players as role models understand that they made a mistake, a sponta­neous mistake. 
"These three men are out­standing young men who work very, very hard, but they made a mistake." 
Ford is averaging 12 points and 6.3 assists and Prickett av­erages 8.6 points and 7.1 re­bounds, and both are starters. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applicationsfor 
Assistant Viewpoint Editors Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Applicants for both positions should have a strong interest in journalism, editing skills and a knowledge of page design. Please submit a resume and a 1-2 page personal statement to Suzy Fry by 4pm Friday, February 25, 1994. For additional information contact Suzy at 631-4541 

AIDS Memorial Quilt
. . . . 
The University of Notre Dame 
Stepan Center 
Weekend of February 25 -27 
Display and Ceremonies 
Friday (FEB 25) 4 pm Opening Ceremonies 4 -9 pm Quilt Display 
Saturday (FEB 26) 10 am -9 pm Quilt Display 
Sunday (FEB 27) 10 am -3 pm Quilt Display 3 pm Closing Ceremonies 
F u r I h e r 

Information: 2 I 9 6 3 1 
Martinez averages 7.1 points and 2.8 rebounds. The players were not avail­able for comment. 
Ford had acknowledged that players who were fouled in the Vanderbilt game allowed an­other player with a better free­throw percentage to go to the line in their place, apparently when officials were confused about who should shoot. Ken­tucky won 77-69. 
Pitino said he called Vander­bilt coach Jan van Breda Kolff and apologized for the incident, and that both agreed the free throws didn't influence the re­sult of the game. 
On one occasion late in the game Martinez (80.5 percent) shot free throws even though Prickett (54. 9 percent) had been fouled. 
"I don't think it was a mali­cious act," Pitino said. "I don't think they thought about the consequences of it at all." 
Pitino said he was told of the switch at a team meeting Mon­day night. 
"He was really upset," for­ward Jeff Brassow said. "It was 
Speakers, Films and Events 
Week of February 21 -25 
. Monday (FEB 21) 7:30pm S p e a k e r s: •• Wise Before their Time: Life with HIV 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
!O:OOpm F i I m: 
• Longtime Companion 

Montgomery. Theater, LaFortune 
Tuesday (FEB .22) 
5:15pm . Memorial Mass ·. 
Sacred Heart Basiliea 
7:30pmFilm: ·. 
• And the Band Played On 

Montgomery Theater, LaFqrtune 
Wednesday (FEB 23) 7:30pm S p e a k e r s: . •• The Challenge to the Church: ·. Responding to HIV I AIDS 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
lO:OOpm F i I m: 
• Parting Glances 

Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 
Thursday (FEB 24) ll:OOam-4:00pmF i I m s: 
• 
Fighting for our Lives: ···Women Confronting AIDS 

• 
Absolutely Positive 

• 
Silver Lake 

• 
Andre's Mother 


Dooley Room, LaFortune 
Friday (FEB 25) 11:00am-4:00pm F i I m: 
• Common Threads . (repeated three times)} 
Main Lounge, LaFortune 

proabably the most upset that I've seen him." 
Martinez' free shots came with 2:44 to go in the game. He made one of two to give Ken­tucky a 63-55 lead. 
Ford confirmed after the Vanderbilt game that he set up another swap when he motioned Walter McCarty (51.2 percent) to shoot for Andre Riddick (31.8 percent). McCarty sank both to give Kentucky at 59-4 7 lead with 6:26 left in the game. 
"That didn't take too many brains to figure that one out," Ford said in the post-game tele­vision interview. "I saw the ref run to the (scorer's) table real quick. He had no idea who was supposed to shoot the free throw. I turned to Walter and said, 'You get on the line.' And it worked out fme." 
Pitino was upset that the play­ers made light of the swaps. 
"I think it was a grave mis­take on our players' part, not only to do it but to joke about it afterward on television," he said. "I don't think it was a jok­ing matter." 
Robinson: will he stay or will he go? 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
"Big Dog" is fine with Pur­due's Glenn Robinson. "Superman" is another story to the player who many say will be the No. 1 NBA draft pick if he decides to bypass his senior year of college eligibility. 
"I like the "Big Dog" nick­name," said Robinson. "Superman, I don't like that. That's a little too much adver­tising." 
7 3 0 8 

Photo courtesy of Kentucky Sporte Information 
Kentucky center Gimel Martinez will not be shooting jumpshots tonight against Tennessee, as he and two other Wildcat players were sus­pended by coach Rick Pitino for illegally switching free throw shooters. 
He doesn't have a cape, but his flights around the basket­ball court have earned the re­spect of teammates and oppo­nents. 
Robinson began the week av­eraging 28.8 points and 10.4 rebounds per game. In less that two full seasons, he's moved into the Top 25 in Purdue's all­time statistics with 1,398 points and 519 rebounds. He's had 30 or more points in 17 games and has scored in double figures 4 7 consecutive games. 
Robinson, who may end his junior season leading all NCAA Division I players in scoring, isn't giving any indication whether he'll leave Purdue in­stead of finishing his senior year. 
"I haven't thought about what I'll do after this season. If peo­ple want to speculate, they can," Robinson said. "I haven't 

THE SAINT MARY'S COllEGE DEPARTMENT Of COMMUNICAnON. DANCE &IHEATRE PRESENIS 
OIRKTEO BY 
KATIE SUlliVAN 
MUSK BY 
BARBARA SUlliVAN 
CHOR106RAPHY BY 
INOI OIKKGRAH 
SCENOGRAPHY BY 
S.l. WEllEN 
COSlUIAi lli:SIGH BY 
JANH HARRElD 

THURSDAY-SATURDAY, FEB. 24-26 AI 8P.M. SUNDAY, HB. 2 7 AT 2:~ 0P.M. MOREAU CIHUR/LITILE THEATRE 
TICKHS: S4 SM'S-ND COMMUNillfS; S3 SfUDENlS OCKETS ON SAlE AI THE SAINT MARY'S BOX OHICt lOCAIEQ IN OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM. OPEN FROM 9A.M. TO 5P.M. MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY. DISCOVER. VISA, MASIERCARD ACHPTEO AT 119/184-4616 


said a word about the NBA and I won't until I have something to say.... If I feel tomorrow that I'm going to leave, then I'll let everyone know. 
"It bothers me some that peo­ple keep talking about what I should do, raising the issue. They say they know what I'm going to do and I keep on say­ing that I'm not even thinking about it." 
Purdue coach Gene Keady obviously would be delighted to have another season with the 6-foot-8, 225-pound junior who was a second-team AU-Ameri­can last season and a presea­son frrst-teamer this season. 
"There ain't no way I'd ever try and talk him into staying. I'd love him here another year, but he's got a lot to consider," Keady said. "Playing wise, I think he's ready to move on. I'd like to see him get a lot better on defense.'' 

-
-
--------, 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 23, 1994 
--------~-­
~­

Jason Anderson (G) Split Dec. Eric Garcia Jay Wolfersberger (G) Split Dec. Brian Banigan 
Jeff Gerber (B) RSC :32--fld. 3 Greg Marks John Bradshaw (B) Split Dec. Rob Nobriga 
Michael Ahem (B) Unan. Dec. Nate Mick Dan Couri (B) Split. Dec. Butch Caberros 
Kevin O'Rourke (B) Unan. Dec. Andy Greff Rob Naticchia (B) Unan. Dec. Bob Lalor 
Mike Somerville (G) Split Dec. James Bailey Mike Mantey (B) Unan. Dec. Mike DeBians1 
Matt Carr (B) RSC :38-Rd. 3 Michael Curtis Chad Hamson (G) Unan. Dec. Kevin Monahan 
Bengals 
continued from page 16 
successful with aggressive fighters, guys that like to brawl." 
Jamie Bailey likes to brawl, but the 180-pound favorite found that style unsuccessful in his fight with senior Mike Summerville. 
Summerville managed to stay clear of Bailey's powerful punches long enough to earn a split decision win and also throw the 180-pound title up for grabs. 
Eric Garcia was another fa­vorite to fall. The aggressive jab of Jason Anderson proved too much in 135-pound action, earning Anderson the split de­cision. 
"I think that on any given night, any boxer can win," said Fight Coordinator Terry John­son about the upsets. "Those aren't really upsets. An upset is, say, if Matt Carr were to lose." 
It is a safe bet that Carr won't after watching him dismantle Michael Curtis in the frrst of the heavyweight fights. The chal­lenge for his opponent in the fi­nals, Chad Harrision, will be to go the distance with the two­time champion. Carr's semifi­nal opponent lasted 39 seconds into the third before a merciful referee ended the bout and the barrage of uppercuts Carr was connecting. 
Carr was one of only a few fa­vorites who cruised through the semifinals unscathed. Three­time 140-pound champion Jeff Gerber had a tough time with David Morken and usually reli­able Steve Clar managed only a split decision against Todd Gar­litz in 155-pound action. 
But the close bouts and the thrilling upsets were only an epilogue to Cabreros/Couri. 
The day before the fight Cabreros, a native Texan, voiced his opinion on the "wimp" northern boxers he had faced thus far. 
He backed up those words in the first, catching Couri with a flurry of punches to take the round. 
The second proved more of the same, as both fighters would flow in for quick combi­nations and then slip out of reach. Cabreros appeared to land more punches, but Couri's 

-

The Obseover/Jake Peters 

Tim Anderson lands a straight right against Eric Garcia during Anderson's upset of the 135-pound favorite. 
counters won on several judge's cards. 
Couri came out in the third and connected on a quick com­bination, leading with a straight right. Both fighters landed punches, but the round and the split decision belonged to the northerner. 
"In the third I concentrated on my footwork, getting off punches and then getting out," said Couri. "I didn't want to fight his fight, standing toe-to­toe." 
And what about the pre-fight comments? 
"Nothing. I have nothing to say. It was just a great fight," said Couri. 
And a great night. 

THE LANGUAGE RESOURCE CENTER PRESENTS: 
A Teleconference: 
FROM THEORY TO PRACTICE: THE NATURAL APPROACH 
February 23, 1994 
3:00 PM -5:00 PM Room 116 DeBartolo Hall 
Featuring panel discussion with Steven Krashen, Jeanne Egasse, Erwin Tschirner, Mary Rogers, Magdalena Andrade and Miguel Munoz. During questions and answers segment you will have an opportunity to participate by telephone. 
Registration is free, but you must call (1-5881) or stop by (Room 201 O'Shaughnessy) to reserve your place. 
Sponsored by McGraw·Hill Publishing and the 
N.D. Language Resource Center. 

Improve your scores: 
LSAT --7.5 points GMAT--72 points MCAT--8 points GRE --214 points Our results have been verified by a Big Six accounting Firm. No other course can make that claim. CALL FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE COURSE NEAREST YOU 
THE 

COURSES START SOON· CALL NOW! 
PRINCETON 
I REVIEW we score more 
(BOO) 480-PREP 
Ne~her Princeton University nor The Educational Testing Service is aHilialed w"h The Pmceton Review. 
,. 
Wednesday, February 23, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Norbut's run stopped by Christoforetti 

By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
Mike Norbut's boxing career is over. At least for now. 
The Cavanaugh Hall sophomore who has been chronicling his Bout experiences for The Observer fought a valiant yet vain fight, los­ing a unanimous decision to fresh­man John Christoforetti in the semifinals of the 165 pound weight class at the Bengal Bouts last night. 
The stands at Stepan Center were packed with Norbut-backers, and the tough first time fighter definitely gave them something to cheer about. 
Both fighters came out tough in the first round, and when the bell rang to end the round, Christoforetti, who is a seven year kick-boxing veteran, had a slight edge, mostly due to his quick feet and equally quick jabs. 
The second round was no great mismatch either, and it wasn't until late in the round when a tir­ing Norbut began to falter against the skilled Christoforetti. 
In the third round, a fatigued Norbut valiantly stood up to Christoforetti's offensive on­slaught, withstanding more than a few powerful shots to the head. The bell sounded, and it was clear that Christoforetti had won, but the crowd roared in approval of both fighters. 
While Norbut was clearly out­
boxed by the lightning-quick 

Christoforetti, he was undoubtedly the winner in the heart and soul category. 
Unfortunately, the judges at the Bengal Bouts don't award points in this category, and Norbut will leave this year's Bouts with a 1-1 record, having defeated Dave Sullivan in a crowd-pleasing quar­terfmal fight this past Sunday. 
Norbut intends to continue with the Bouts next year, saying, "I had too much fun not to do it again next year." 
For someone who was working on four weeks' training and pos­sessed no prior boxing experience, Norbut was no slouch. 
"My deciding to box was pretty spontaneous, and was aided by a few of my friends," he said. "Todd Murphy, who lost in the first round of 175's, was my sparring partner, and we supported each other. I didn't realize at first how much work was behind it, but the more experienced boxers were a great help. I think that I was able to prove something to myself." 
Norbut also had a great deal of praise for his opponent, who will face returning champ Jeff Goddard in the finals of 165's this Saturday. "Christoforetti is a great fighter, and those four and a half minutes in the ring with him taught me a lot," mused Norbut. "When it was over , I knew I had lost, but I felt good about it nonetheless. I was really glad that I was able to hang in there for three rounds." 
~ 

-
The Council 
cordia{{y invites you to an informationa{ meeting Wednesday, !february 23, 1994 7:00p.m. 126 tJJe13arto{o 
'Tiie 9-.[otre 'lJame Councifon Internationa{ flJusiness 'lJeve{opment wou{d uf(s. to congratufate tliose mem6ers wlio were awarded internsliips for tlits summer: 
Anthony Franks, Ryan Kerrigan, Chris Peterson, John Coyle, Jerry Peters, Maureen Costello, Anne Grimm, Geordan Drummond, Rob Schupansky, Joe Rogers, Jennifer Failla, Tamara Sosa-Pasqual, Julie Stevens, Peter Maloney, Jonalan Page, Troy Billings, Steve Bordenkircher, Chise Mori, Heather Matula, Chris Barry, Pat McCullough, Chris Seidensticker, Brad O'Brien, Tony Popanz, Julio Cassilas, Anton Rivera, Kelly McCullough, Charlie Atkinson, Maryola Staniak, Mary Massey, Jeff Hill, Rasha Elganzouri, Michelle Nolan, Tony Prom, Joe Kovach, Liz Caruso, Amy Eslinger, Ted Bills, Laura Demmelmaier, Tina Trzaska, Mary Shroeder, Sean Farnan, Sharif Nijim, Beth Baillargeon, Andrew Kiel, Steve Zilioli Tim McFadden, and Mitzi McAndrews. 
United Kingdom: Bolivia: Market Access St. Petersburg, Russia: Trigo Morgan Stanley Honeywell Corporation, two interns Chile: 
G.E. Consult Bronze Lion Marketing Elecmetal Belgium: Estonia: Manfredo Brauchie, S.A. 
Market Access, International Estonian National Bank Sonda Singapore: Estonian Shipping Company Honduras: 
U.S. Department of Commerce Tulem Limited Empresas H.H. S.A., two interns 
·­

Alaska: 
Mexico: Schools: 
U.S. Department of Commerce, two interns Carrier International Honduras, four teachers Moscow, Russia: Grupo Industrial Alfa, three interns Lithuania, four teachers Nicol International Johnson and Johnson Poland, four teachers 
Commersant Impresora Monterrey Estonia, four teachers BBDO Marketing 
Hylsa, two interns Parnu, Estonia,two teachers 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 23, 1994 
Cotton Bowl will remain SWC members may join Big Eight 
By MICHAELA. LUTZ existed solely to make money for the Southwest
despite possible merger Associated Press Conference," said John Scovell, past president of 
the Cotton Bowl. "And we have always repre­BySTEFANIG.KOPENEC Texas Tech and Baylor are HOUSTON sented this entire conference -not just the Associated Press considering informal offers to The Southwest Conference, which has dominat-'haves' as opposed to the 'have-nots.' 
join the Big Eight. ed college sports in Texas since 1915, appeared "Obviously, some schools have had attendance DALLAS "lf this agreement goes headed for extinction Tuesday. problems, but I think it would have been far bet-
The Cotton Bowl will remain through on this new conference Texas, Texas A&M, Baylor -original members ter to come to some arrangement giving them a strong no matter what happens ... the reality is we won't have of the SWC -and Texas Tech have received chance to bring it up to the required level, rather to its longtime Southwest Con­the Southwest Conference informal offers to join the Big Eight Conference. than summarily cutting off four schools and say­ference partner, officials for champion playing every year," That would leave Rice, Houston, Texas Christian ing, 'You don't belong anymore."' the New Year's Day football said John Crawford, president and Southern Methodist to fend for themselves. The plan would eliminate Dallas and Houston, game said Tuesday. of the Cotton Bowl Athletic As­"All I can say is, we have an informal invita-the SWC's two largest markets, from the new 
"We're as strong as we have sociation. "That's the major tion," University of Texas president Robert league. ever been," said John Scovell, a difference." Berdahl said. "No decision has been reached. University of Houston president James Cotton Bowl past president and That would have to be made by the board (of re-Pickering said the Cougars didn't want to be left vice chairman of the team Bowl officials said there will gents)." out of any new arrangement. selection committee. be a football game in Dallas on The four Southwest Conference schools would "The University of Houston has made it clear 
"So certainly whatever hap­Jan. 1 through 2000 because of join the Big Eight in a 12-team league that would that it wants to be a major player in any al­pens in this way, we are cer­a sponsorship agreement with be in a better posi-.-------------------------,Hance," Pickering tain that we're going to play Mobil Corp. They said other tion to bargain for Big Eight expansion? said. "To the 
football on Jan. 1 in Dallas, businesses have also shown in­TV contracts when extent we were not
miE....-..,.3
Southwest Conference schools J .._.,
Texas, for a long time to terest in sponsoring the game. the current broad-Texas, TexasA&M, Texas Tech I ~ considered, I'm come." Holding the Cotton Bowl with­cast deal ends in and Ba~lor accept reported offers very disappoint­1996. to joint e Big Eight and form one ed."
The SWC winner has earned a out an SWC team would be a big made-for-televison conference. berth in the Cotton Bowl for strange feeling, Crawford said. "The Southwest 1 a u T H w 1 6 T CON FERENCE Houston has more than half a century. The All but one of the 58 games Conference is mori-started construc­
t• tt The new 12-team league could f $
future of the SWC is in doubt have featured SWC teams, in­bund• tha s pre Y be splitinto two divisions. tion O a 25 mi.1­because Texas, Texas A&M, cluding the last 54. clear," said Texas lion athletic com-regent Lowell plex and Rice has Lebermann Jr. had back-to-hack
Football captains named 
Big Eight commis-winning football sioner Carl James seasons for the 
Observer Staff Report over 100 yards. 
called the reported first time since 
Goheen, a linebacker from offersrumors. 1960-1961. BothWexford, PA, led the team "The Big Eight will schools, however,The Notre Dame football with 92 tackles in last season's not publicly address have suffered in program announced that four campaign. 

the most recent spec-competition withcaptains will lead the Irish into A native of Chicago, ulation on the issue the city's pro fran­the 1994 football season. 
Hamilton is a two year starter of expansion," James chises.

Lee Becton, Justin Goheen, 
who has registered eight 

said. "We are con-"We need toBrian Hamilton, and Ryan career sacks. 
ducting ongoing, get our numbersLeahy, all of whom will be se­Leahy, son of former Irish daily discussions up," said Houstonniors next season, will take head coach Frank Leahy, is 
with our athletic AP/Wm.J.Casteuo athletic director
over the responsibilities. 
from Yakima, WA. An offen­directors in regards Bill Carr. "I cameBecton, from Ernul, NC, led sive guard, he started seven to football television matters. here knowing a conference realignment wasthe team in rushing last season games last season for the Irish, "We will continue to move forward in negotiat­coming and that there would be a reduction ofwith 1,044 yards, including missing four with a torn knee ing an arrangement that is best for our institu­the number of Division I-A schools. How it willseven consecutive games with ligament. 

tions.'' happen, I don't know." The four uninvited schools would be left with The plan would have the four invited SWC 
gish and Notre Dame took ad­
weakened bargaining power on television con­schools joining a division with Oklahoma and Ok­vantage. 
tracts that could endanger its long association lahoma State. The other division would be com­Whether or not North Car­
UNC 

with the Cotton Bowl. posed of Colorado, Nebraska, Kansas, Kansas continued from page 16 olina will fall into the same trap "For all of these years, the Cotton Bowl has State, Iowa State and Missouri. is uncertain, although it is un­
most people expected the Tar 

likely considering Smith's 
Heels to lose all season. 
recent shakeup. 
Can Notre Dame make it six? 

What is certain is that the 
The Irish have already beaten 

Irish need another All­
A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY: 
three top 25 teams and had a 

American performance from 
game-winning opportunity 

Monty Williams to offset a Tar 
against No. 2 Duke. 

Heel lineup laden with some of 
STUDENTS' PERSPECTIVES
Most recent was an upset of the nation's best talent. 
then-No. 2 UCLA at the Joyce If that talent plays to its ca­

Center. Tired from a rugged 

pabilities, it could be Notre 
conference game two nights 

Dame that leaves with the Car­
earlier, the Bruins were slug­olina blues. 

ANTHONY BELLIA 
LAw STUDENT 

TRENTON MERRICKS 
DocTORAL STUDENT 

BONG MIQUIABAS 

UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT 
FEBRUARY 24 7:30P.M. 

HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES AUDITORIUM 


Wednesday, February 23, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-

A-sof 1Ht5 PI'INE.L, I 
I-HIIlE 1'1850LIJTEOL'/ N 0 
IOCA HO~ ltt15 CI'IRl"l:uN £Nif5. Ii':S \3EiN6 IIJl<JI/EN 1\S I E,o 1\LO i'ICn, 

loNf•~0·~6 "DE•P-Foof' Fool:> 
•r ~ T\\E G~>.ovf' OF T"E R<.-c>ei>. 1\poCP.L'ji'S£-1,.\HATS ('11A•L ... !,JoT II ~ouP-NAm£ 7/TS 
L-o>'~ Ar<o l>oma A~D Co,...FUSIN~·· · 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Hamilton of the 56 Barbra's co-star Carter White in '68 
1 Smelling House 57 Notedthings? 
30 "Topper" pooch performers on 6 Howard and 31 Tom Joad, e.g. 20-Across's Brown shows32 Bond
10 Hill-climber of 63 Falling-out
35 Fixed-up

rhyme 64"-Man"
building

14 Well-nigh (Estevez flick) 
39 Accord signer 

15 Hand-cream 65 Kind of cannon 
of '78 

additive &&Opposed
41 G.l. address 

16 Writer Wiesel 67 Geometry
42Tool for datum17"--Davis bending cold &&WipeoutEyes" metal 69 It may generate 181982 Beineix 43 Laugher? 

interestthriller 44 Bumper 70 Clobber19 Flat amount? blemish 71 Jinni 
20 Subject of this 46 Noted name in puzzle lithography 
DOWN 
22 Designer 47 TV palomino Gernreich 49 Maintain 1Kemo­23 Opulence 51 Promised Land 2 Sacked out 3Agood deal
24-lslands 54 Bumpkin 4 1984 Nobelist 5"-by Starlight"
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Base of a number system 7 "Thimble 
Theater" name a Smoked salmon 9 Rap session? 
10 Performer on 20-Across's debut show 
BB:+.=:+:::.wi. ~::+,-.;.+:,:.;;,;, -=-+:::-+:;+-:::-! 11 Alimentary
canal part 12Yorba­13Admit 21 Bronchiole 
locale ~=+:::+.:=-+=-! 25 Snobbery -=+::::.+;:~+=-! 26 Playwright 
Logan 
HAVE A SPRING BREAK TO REMEMBER 
Spring Break ... isn't that one of your favorite things to hear? It's that break from the stresses and strains of school, if only for a short time. But just because you're resting your body and mind doesn't mean you can stop thinking. 
Play it safe. Because memories are fond only if you have them. 
IS "DES~.." tv\1\SC\JUI-It.? IS "CiiMR" I=E.M\~ \~E.. r I=OR£\Gt'-\ \<..1\)S Kf'.IOW, \3'01 WE \X)\'-.1'\ ' t-10 WO~'i>ER WE Cl\1'\1 C()t-1\\'ETE.. \~ 1\ GL0\31\l NII\R\<..8 .' 
l OE.tv\1\~\) 5E)( 8)\JC.f:>-T\Ol\1, .' 
GEE.SI1,"Do~·, "Rei'Ct:>\1\m / ... "R£AD ANo-r"el' ONE 'DES ... 1/vRRf/ 
f 

l 1\M 1\E.L'/ /N&, ENTtRE.L'i 
ON 11+£ CAI<-TooNl'<>T':S S~eA11 Of' ~SCIDUSN~ TO BR/N{, ntiS SIR! P lo 
.p, tt/LARI0\!5 
'l:>el\1' 'Fc>ov ~•oPS 
T T\IINK ~oul? f\IAm~ ls /<.£ALL'1 bvf"B, ~~~ 
:51-\ovL:D (11.P.I-l6E. 1-r... 


27 Rubber-stamp 28 The Cyclone, e.g. 
29 Performer on 20-Across's debut show 
30 Light gas 33 Alan or Cheryl 34 News org. 
founded in 1958 36 Wealthy person 37 Ripening agent 38 Insurance writer 
A.M.­40 Georgia home 

MAKE THIS A SPRING BREAK TO REMEMBER... 
* 
You don't have to be drunk to be impaired -even one or two drinks affect your driving skills. 

* 
Drinking, drugs and driving don't mix. 

* 
Take your turn -be a designated driver and get everyone where they are going safely.


• Respect other people's right, and your own--to choose not to drink. There's 
plenty of fun to be had without alcohol.  
*  Respect state laws and campus policies.  
*  Don't let your friends drive impaired -it's one of the fastest ways to end a  
friendship.  

* Wear your seat belt-it's your best protection against an impaired driver. 
FINALE. 
-

45 Mr. Kaplan 48Draw in 50 Used wax, 
perhaps 51--Sea 
(W.W. II site) 52--acid 53 Gore/ Perot 
debate topic 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
·~ 
0 
BILL WAITERSON 

• 
54 Beat the offense 55 Lusitania sinker 58 "You are-" 59 Ran like mad 60 Rich soil 61 Former Sinclair 
competitor 62Examined 




Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 631-7970 
• 
.. 
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, February 23, 1994 
Upsets abound in thrilling Bengal semifinals 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
":'!< 
Dan Couri didn't 0\ have much to say. 0' 

The Zahm Hall ...,. junior upset Butch Cabreros in the second 145-pound semifinal last night, but could not and did not want to talk about it. 
"I really don't have anything to say," he said. "It was just a great fight." 
The Cabreros/Couri matchup was the best fight in a night of great fights between the ropes at Stepan Center, as the Bengal Bout semifinals proved better than advertised. 
Couri's upset was one of many thrilling wins by upstart challengers. Three top seeds, including a former champion, were eliminated and four No. 2 seeds faded under the sixteen bright lights hang­ing from the Stepan rafters. 
The biggest shock came in the featured fight in the 150-pound division where 1993 champion and top seed, Dan Schmidt, lost a split decision to senior Rob Ganz. 
Both fighters went on the offensive early. Ganz stunned Schmidt with a left sending, the former champ reeling backwards, but Schmidt respond­ed with two strong rights to take the round. 
Schmidt faded in the second as Ganz became the aggressor and chased the Off-Campus senior around the ring, using good combinations against the much smaller Schmidt. 
In the third Ganz controlled the tempo of the fight. Three strong flurries near the end helped Schmidt in the scoring, but it wasn't enough on three judges' cards. 
"He hit me with some hard blows early and I lost my legs," said Schmidt. "I have never been 
see BENGALS I page 12 

The Observer/Eric Ruethllng Sophomore shooting guard Keith Kurowski will try to overcome a nag­ging ankle injury to spark the Irish over heavily favored North Carolina. 
1[:]
CONFERENCE 

Hostile Takeover The Big Eight confer­ence informally invited key members of the Southwest Conference to join their expansion. see page 14 

(Top) Dan Couri celebrates with his trainer after upsetting Butch Cabreros after a thrilling third round in which he connected on numerous punches (below). 
No.4 North Carolina to test Irish 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 

Next up is North Carolina, in a lovely ensemble by Alexander Julian. 
Powder blue has never been so intimidating. 
They prefer to call it Carolina blue, but pastels are pastels, whether or not they're draped over the shoulders of the de­fending national champions. 
There was a time not too long ago when you could have ex­pected Notre Dame to wear some shade of shamrock for a game of this magnitude. 
Not tonight. Lime green doesn't go with Carolina blue. 
When No. 4 North Carolina suits up tonight at the Joyce Center, it's the players in those designer uniforms that will worry the Irish. 
Nine of them were a part of last year's national champi­onship team and the three top newcomers are a big reason why the Tar Heels are among the favorites for this year's prize. 
But they have struggled in re­cent weeks, losing to Georgia Tech and Clemson before slip­ping past Virginia last Saturday. 
North Carolina coach Dean Smith benched some of his regulars against Virginia in an effort to expel the doldrums. 
"Maybe I just wanted to shake them up, make them mad at me and maybe play bet­ter," Smith said of his tactics. 
Freshmen Jeff Mcinnis and Rasheed Wallace started for the first time this season against Virginia in place of regular starters Kevin Salvadori and the injured Derrick Phelps. 
Seniors Eric Montross and 

Brian Reese spent the early part of the second half on the ltiii.....-I'I'PIIW""-,.."-"" bench. 
It worked as North Carolina rallied to defeat Virginia 69-56 ltiii~!'W.., behind a season-high 16 points 

from Mcinnis and 17 from NC(21-5)hasstruggledrecently,losingtwof kh of their last three and struggling to defeat 
reshman Jerry Stac ouse. ~~~i~:~~~~~;:;~r~~ ~t ~~~-e;-~~~a~~~~~
1

It's not unusual for Smith's areateamwaitingtoexplode,withlittteover teams to hit stride late in the two weeks before they begin their post-season 
push. A factor in NO's favor is that this is a season. Many consider the Tar relatively non-important non-conference game 
for NC-its only non-ACC game this Heels' current 21-5 mark a dis-month-in the middle of a heated conference race. That helped the Irish against UCLA, appointment because they were which came to the Joyce Center sluggish from · th its rigorous Pac 10 schedule. Firepower is
deemed unbeatable tn e pre-definitely on the Tar Heels' side, but ND has season. been surprisingly successful agatnst highly-ranked teams this season. 
But in college basketball, ev-[~G'l!G'l!G'l!G'l!G'l!G'l!G'l!G'l!l?E!l!EEIDB
erything is practice untiJiil 
March. room to keep everyone happy. Smith is famous for fiddling Nobody cried for Smith's 
with his lineup until he finds problems. the perfect rotation. He But he was right. North Car­lamented early this season that olina has had trouble finding finding it would be difficult on a the right combination and has 
team with so much talent. Great players want playing time and he wasn't sure if he had 
lost five games in the process. That's about five more than 
see UNCI page 14 
Streaking Wolverines Michigan coach Steve Fisher and his Fab Four have reeled off nine straight wins. 
see page 10 
Inside SPORTS 

Suspended Jared Prickett and three members of the Kentucky basketball team were sidelined by coach Rick Pitino see page 11 



