
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Community service to receive funding 
By SARAH DORAN News Editor 
Precipitated by the Clinton administration's focus on na­tional and community service, colleges and universities receiv­ing federal work-study funds must now designate five per­cent of these monies to students for work in community service organizations. 
The intent of the program, which is in its first year, is to ·· share of the allow students who have been 
cati~m; A;r; . Ai; . .· >
financially prevented from 
But dEwelopments Ui educ~~ .·· doing community service to 
tionalloan programs do awayhave the opportunity to do so, 
with tbis·hUrdle, ns ll.l)'fV
said Sue Brandt, assistant 
provisions can qualify stu+ director of financial aid and 
dents for up to three years of student employment coordina­
loan deferment, aeeordlng to tor. 
Maggie Fogarty, governmentIt is the first change to the 
liaison for the Catholic 
federal work-study program in 
Network of Volttnteet 
many years, she said. Students 
Services. qualify to receive work-study 
.. The Higher Educ 
funds according to demon­
IJUillUilll';l.v, at stu­
strated financial need. At the dent's employer provides 25most, 75 percent of work-study percent of these funds. 
funds are provided by the fed­Although program guidelineseral government, and corre­are still in the developmental 
Cable poll results to be reviewed by board 
By KATE CRISHAM 
Assistant News Editor 
Student Government has re­searched the options, com­pleted the paperwork, and pre­sented their findings to the Board of Trustees. 
Now it's up to the University to determine whether Notre Dame students will have the opportunity to have cable tele­vision in their dorm rooms in the near future. 
According to student body President Dave Hungeling, a committee met with the Board of Trustees on Thursday to dis­cuss the feasibility of installing cable in dorm rooms. Both Hungeling and Coordinator of Board of Trustees Reports Larissa Herczeg felt the Board responded positively to their findings. 
"I thought it was about as positive as it could be, considering we really didn't know what to expect," said Hungeling. "I thought they were very receptive." 
"Bringing it to the trustees has brought the issue of cable 
T.V. back to Notre Dame's agenda," he said. 
Hungeling noted that it is the University, not the Board, who will make the final decision. 
"What the Trustees can do is put some pressure on the University," he said. "It's basi­cally up to the Administration." 
Both Hungeling and Herczeg noted that cable television will open a myriad of academic and educational options for stu­dents. 
"Our two main arguments are that since we're already wiring the dorm rooms, this is the most efficient time to install cable, and also that 
see GOVf. I page 3 
FDSL, and determination,ti!e.Y; ..·... i,;;·.:Ktle!;s ?f: 1.\cttvity bl ~ ...,.... , ..~.,, · • are a servi@ organization. after July 1, ... . ... ..• given a year at a time, .fl are working full ~n:te~ . .i;; : more than three years . ·Also, one or the other of · Students who took out loans these conditions ·· ..... befor(;l July.l, 1993, can quali­
• gross monthly • · . liil\1!fy for the "¢onununity service be below 
p ase, e rna tena n not 
administering the work-study StUdentS performing 
aUJLllllll:>­
funds is that receiving students trative or clerical tasks. must be working directly with "Its aim is to instill social re­clients of the service organiza-sponsibility in students," she 
Making some friends 


said. 
Approximately 100 students will be offered community ser­vice positions as part of their work-study commitment, said Brandt. Eligible students will be matched with service organiza­tions by the end of October, she said. 
The Office of Financial Aid has been working closely with the Center for Social Concerns to design student work-study positions in community service organizations, said Brandt. 
As part of this process, ju­niors and seniors currently re­ceiving federal work-study funds have been sent commu­nity service forms designed to survey their interest in the new opportunity. As feedback rolls in, interested students will also go through a screening process. 
"This year we are just getting our feet wet, trying to see how many students are interested," said Brandt. "It is still so early in the development of the pro­gram." 
The Observermna Lemker 

With food in hand, Elenor Harding reaches out to a group of ducks during Saint Mary's Fall Day on Campus yesterday. 
Campbell Soup CEO tells secrets of success 
By NICOLE NIELSEN 
News Writer 
"I love the attitude of always wanting to be the best," said David Johnson, President, Chairman, and CEO of the Campbell Soup company in his lecture last Friday. 
Johnson, this year's speaker in the Eugene B. Clark Execu­tive Lecture Series, spoke on "Competing and Winning: Global People Power," in which he discussed his strategies for winning that have made the Campbell Soup Company 83rd in sales and 42nd in market value within the Fortune 500. 
"The first winning strategy," Johnson said, "is to set strate­gic precepts. These are the val­ues within which the enterprise will operate." 
He further stated that the prime purpose of the enterprise is to build shareowner wealth, the driving force is brand power, and the controlling force is people power. 
"The source of all company advantage stems from people," Johnson said. "A company must deliver superior results." 
The next step is to define the challenge, Johnson said. This includes analyzing the compa­ny's earnings, return on equity, and cash return on assets. 
Next, a company must set measurable objectives, Johnson said. He defines this as "show­ing the risk bearers that we aren't sensational." 
The next step is to sell the ob­jectives. According to Johnson, this is easy, and includes iden­tifying and knowing the com­petition, and realizing that the threats of competitors are seri­ous. 
A company must also make tough decisions, and Johnson said that this is the most diffi­cult winning strategy. When he came to Campbell Soup, he had to eliminate 16,000 jobs, close 24 plants, and sell businesses totaling $500 million in sales. 
"It is important to realize that there is going to be a better to­morrow," Johnson said. 
"A winning company must measure and compare the re­sults versus the objectives," he added. "It is important to look at all-time success, not just the year-to-year success." 
Johnson said a company that wants to be a success must set rewards for winning. He added that it is necessary to keep the employees excited, and in the case of the Campbell Soup Company. this is done through performance incentives such as a potential to earn two times one's salary, and savings plans. Through these incentives, the Campbell Soup Company has given away $4.8 million. 
"A company must celebrate people power," he said. "This includes giving recognition to people for the good things that they do." 
The final element to building a successful company, accord­ing to Johnson, is to build vision and long term expecta­tions. For Campbell Soup, the vision for the future is "Campbell brands preferred around the world". The Campbell Soup Company hopes to expand into Mexico, Asia, and Europe. 

Johnson discussed the 1995 strategies for the Campbell Soup Company, including brand expansion, low cost business systems, and alliances with other companies. 
"Each year the team wants to move to new heights. We are on a global consumer crusade," he said. 
Johnson said that the Camp­bell Soup Company is similar to Notre Dame in that both have a sense of shaping the future, go­ing on forever, and continuing tradition. 
~----------------------­
page 2 
• INSIDE COI.UMN 
Leaving the eight-trackbehind... 
I have always found my -------­dad's strange attachment to eight-tracks odd. My sisters and I can tell him about the compactness of cassettes, or the clearness from COs, until we drop from sheer exhaustion. However, every time we go up north, my dad brings out his old eight-track player, and half a dozen eight-tracks, and absolutely loves it. He doesn't seem to care that technology has marched on, and left eight-tracks hanging around with the dinosaurs. Likewise he can't understand why everyone has left the realm of the eight-track. The rest of us generally sit back and laugh at those like my father, who are caught in eddies of technology, and don't flow along with the rest on us, while those hanging on to the old tech, end up struggling to fmd the items they need. Recently, I too have felt the cold wave of technology pass. At the beginning of one of my classes, a student came in and set two computer related boxes next to her on the table in front of me. During a lull in the lec­ture, I took a good look at the boxes. One said clearly, on the side: "Bring the power of a pho­tograph directly into your computer." I had read in Discover, Popular Mechanics, and other magazines, about the advent of new cameras that can store their images electroni­cally. and put images directly onto the com­puter. This wasn't a shock for me. It was the fact that the box was so small, so within buy­ing power, so close to becoming a reality for everyone instead of the proto-typical toy it had always been. The "computer cameras" always had been big clunky things with humongous hard drives clipped to the hip, and not resistant to the bumps and bruises my Vivatar receives on an average news day. Furthermore the images they had published were always blurry, and required tons of memory-a precious com­modity several years ago. But the benefits. according to the maga­zines, are numerous. No more paper or film would be needed. The electronic photo could be incorporated directly onto the page with almost any publishing software. Minor changes could easily be performed on the pic­ture; and with enough skill, one could erase objects in the foreground, then draw or paste in the missing background action. Oh sure. the magazines always talked about the steady improvements in those "computer" cameras. They discussed the fact that eventu­ally they could totally replace the "old" film using cameras. but to see it happen... The computer camera I held after class was light and compact. The pictures it took, that are on mosaic, were pretty clear and had excellent color. Although it had a limited shot capacity, these advancements-made in about ten years time-were amazing, not to mention a little unsettling. I love taking pictures. I love working in the darkroom. All the little techniques and tricks to get good pictures are just part of the fun. Having some machine hand me some prepack­aged photo, that can be cleaned by any com­puter artist, is just not for me. However, espe­cially with the start of photo COs, I can see that film cameras may soon be left behind. at least by the general public. Where does this leave me? I'll give you a hint: eight-tracks. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Lab Tech Liz Foran Julie Lombardi Brad Prendergast Production Sports Elizabeth Harnisch Matt Casey David Diaz Joe Villinski Graphics' Viewpoint Robert Bollman Eric Ruethling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


The Observer· INSIDE Monday, October 3, 1994 
• Wmn.D AT A GLANCE 
Microsoft's Bill Gates is wealthiest American once again 
NEW YORK est commoner in the world. The only foreign billionaire 
Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates is back on top as in his league besides royalty is Yoshiaki Tsutsumi, a the richest American, with a net worth of $9.35 billion Japanese railroad and hotel tycoon whom Forbes said is from his burgeoning software empire, according to worth $8.5 billion. Forbes magazine. .,.. p· R' h A . Coming in third for the second 
Gates bumped stock tycoon Warren .tOp 1Ve IC est mertcans year in a row was John Kluge, 80, Buffett, with $9.2 billion, out of the No. -According to Forbes" Oct 17 issue ~f:l;l:;: of Charlottesville, Va., who built 1 spot, the biweekly business journal Bill Gates 9.35 the Metromedia radio and TV said its annual report on the 400 rich-empire, then liquidated it to invest est Americans. in movies, restaurants and long 
Forbes attributed the flip-flop since 9.2 distance telephone service. last year to the vagaries of the stock Kluge's restaurant and movie market. interests are recovering from some 
Buffett, 64, the folksy investor from weak times, Forbes reported, and Omaha, Neb., kept his investment com-the long distance company, LDDS, pany, Berkshire Hathaway, growing is now No. 4 behind AT&T, MCI this year, but not as fast as Microsoft. and Sprint. Kluge, whose worth 
Thanks to his holdings in Microsoft, 4.5 was listed at $5.9 billion, led the Gates' net worth grew by more than $3 field from 1989-1991. billion; Buffett's rose by $900 million. '---------=-----=--""ii;~;;;.:;rn;;i;;;is;;rr;;;;:;;-r;:' The stock market's bouts of 
Gates, 38, of Bellevue, Wash., was weakness this year didn't hurt helped out earlier·this year when Microsoft emerged Edward Johnson III, 64, of Boston, chief of Fidelity largely unscathed from a federal antitrust inquiry that it Investments, the top mutual fund company. His $5.1 bil­monopolized the software business. lion was enough to vault him to No. 4, from No. 38 last 
Gates is quoted in the Oct. 17 Forbes as saying its list year. is "silly." Amway Corp. partner Richard DeVos, 68, rounded out Forbes also said Gates now appears to be the wealthi-the top five with $4.5 billion, up from No. 33. 
Drug rumors frustrate Mellencamp 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

John Mellencamp is frustrated by rumors that living a rock 'n' roll lifestyle caught up with him and caused his recent heart problems. "Anybody who knows me knows that I haven't drank or taken drugs since the early '70s," Mellencamp said last week in an interview with the Herald­Times of Bloomington. "I mean, I'm 42 and I've been making records since I was 22. Do people really think 


you can live that stereotypical drugged-up lifestyle and still make records for 20 years?" He confirmed for the first time Friday that the "heart blockage" that forced the cancellation of his recent concert tour was indeed a heart attack. Although he said there is no rock 'n' roll lifestyle to recover from, his friends have worried for years about his smoking and eating habits. ''I'm a smok­ing machine," he admitted. "Hell, I sometimes wake up 10, 15 times a night to smoke a cigarette. The moral of my story is that 80 cigarettes a day and a cholesterol level of 300 is like a loaded gun." 
Life returns to normal in Belfast 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 

One month into the Irish Republican Army cease-fire, Belfast seems a changed city. Shops have stopped screening their customers for firebombs. Soldiers have exchanged helmets for berets, and many go about their street patrols in traditionally hostile districts with guns at their sides, chatting to passersby. Police even dare to hand out traffic tickets in IRA strongholds. "I actually saw soldiers sitting on a park bench having a smoke. Never seen that before in my life," said Susannah McAvoy, a 25-year-old Catholic, who was born in the year that Northern Ireland's "troubles" exploded in sec­tarian street violence. The IRA truce went into effect Sept. 1 as efforts progressed toward a compromise among Britain, Ireland and the two sides in British-ruled Northern Ireland. The IRA has been fighting to unite Northern Ireland, which has a Protestant majority, with the predominantly Catholic Republic of Ireland. 
Cisneros meets with tunnel-dwellers 
NEW YORK 

Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros descended Sunday into a filthy, rat-infested subway tunnel, decrying the liv­ing conditions of homeless people who call themselves "tunnel rats." "It gets to you as a person," Cisneros said after he climbed out. "People covered in soot, scratching their bodies from dust and lice, the air clammy, the trains, the fumes. It's the England of Dickens, or worse." Armed with a flashlight and joined by escorts. he eased off the end of the platform, walked across a catwalk and onto a 10-foot-wide, stone island between two trackbeds. "Hello there! How are you, sir?" Cisneros shouted to two men over the roar of a passing train. Cisneros eased around piles of trash to kneel by their campsite -some bags of clothes, a filthy pillow, and a radio wired to the deadly electrified third rail of one of the tracks. One of the men told Cisneros he lived in the tunnels because he lost his job and had nowhere to go. Both said they pre­ferred it to a homeless shelter. As Cisneros climbed out of the tunnel, he took a deep breath, clutched his mid­section, and smiled with relief. "In dramatic language, it's like Dante's Inferno. where you descend through lev­els of hell," he said. 
Robots' pictures detail ferry's leak 
TURKU, Finland 

Two camera-equipped robots scanned the hull of the sunken ferry Estonia on Sunday, sending back pictures of the bow section that was leaking before the tragedy. Piercing the underwater darkness with their search­lights, the Sea Owl robots sent back electronic images taken over several hours from the bottom of the frigid Baltic Sea. The eerie pictures show unused lifeboats still attached to the ship's deck. Search crews received a complete view of the hull, upper decks, bridge, stern and bow section of the Estonia, though no bodies were found, said Tuomo Karppinen, a scientist aboard the salvage ship Halli. The robots did not enter the ship. With winter approaching over the Baltic Sea, investigators are racing against time to gather as much information as possible while the wreck is still fresh and their equipment can reach it. Memorial services for the more than 900 dead were held in Sweden, Estonia and Finland, all stunned by the disaster. Only 138 people survived the sinking off the Finnish coast on Wednesday, authorities said. 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather~ forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 3.
Monday, Oct. 3 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures Lines separate high temperature zones lor the aay. 
MICH. 
OHIO 
lindianapoli3 66" I 

ILL. 
• 
FRONTS: 
............... ...a...a.... ,......_ 
COI.D WARM STAnONARY 

H--L ffi &'S'IITII 0 ~§ 
-l)
HIGH LOW SHOWERS fWN T-8TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
...-........ 

Atlanta 75 59 Dallas 90 67 New Orleans 88 69 Baltimore 64 43 Denver 69 45 New York 64 48 Boston 60 41 Los Angeles 73 65 Philadelphia 64 44
~~~~4~{)~a 
Chicago 57 45 Miami 89 75 Phoenix 90 69
S~~~e~ T-~t~~s Rain ~~~;;;e~ -~~:·~· ~~-=. Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 64 39 Minneapolis 53 42 Pittsburgh 63 40 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNat C1994 Accu-Weather. Inc. 

Monday, October 3, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Hungeling. "I don't think we should dismiss it on the basis of
Govt. Multicultural week at SMC
financial reasons because 

there's still a lot of options for
continued from page 1 
the University to consider." 
ninety percent of school ranked "We've had several cable in the top 20 already have companies offering to do free cable." Hungeling said. "This installation and free access to is an important issue, especially educational channels," she said. if we want to keep improving "Then students who wanted our academic resources." access to channels like HBO and 
According to Hungeling, the Showtime could pay for that Board's foremost concerns re­themselves." garded the financing of the in­"This would also allow the 
stallation and monthly use. University to retain some con­
"The University doesn't want trol over what channels stu­to have to increase room and dents got," Herzceg said. "The board, but they still want to im­financing thing is really not an prove technology," said issue." 
CLUB COLUMN 
October 3, 1994 

Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4:00 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in room 206 LaFortune. 
1. MOCK TRIAL will have a mandatory seminar tonight from 7:30 to 
9:30 in the Montgomery Theater (1" floor ofLaFortune). Please bring $5 to cover membership dues in order to receive a packet and be placed on a tryout team. Tryouts will be held on Saturday, Nov. 5. Ifyou are unable to attend the meeting tonight but still wish to enter tryouts, please call Dave at x2037. 
2. 
THE SKI CLUB will have a meeting on Thursday, October 6, in 123 Nieuwland at 8:00p.m. Deposits for the uip to Crested Butte will be accepted and t-shirts and turtlenecks may be in, so bring your checkbooks! Questions, call Kevin Malone at 272-1352. 

3. 
Kathy Olcesv, a representative from AllState Insurance, will speak about the role ofthe actuary and career opportunities at AllState on Wednesday, October 5, at 7:30p.m. in the Montgomery Theater. 



BE AFILMMAKER AT NOTRE DAME!!! 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN DIRECTING, ACTING, OR BEING PART OF ASTUDENT FILM PRODUCTION CREW, COME TO: THE LOFT IN O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL (2ND FLOOR, EAST WING) MONDAY AT 8:00PM FOR FOOD, FILM, AND FUN, FUN, FUN... 
13TH ANNUAL 
A S 
~ 
··~t! 

TOLL FREE INFORMAnON AND RESERVAnONS 
1•800•5UNCHASE 
NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 
By LAURA FERGUSON considering all of the attention News Writer Cuba has been given lately," said Maricela Ramirez, director 
Students at Saint Mary's will of multicultural affairs. have several opportunities to Tuesday. a faculty panel will experience the growing multi­discuss their personal and pro­cultural diversity on campus fessional experiences in through Multicultural Week ac­Australia, Russia, and Ghana tivities, beginning today. and will be held at 4 p.m. in 
Today, photographer Kay Stapleton Lounge. Panelists of Westhues will kick off her pho­the "Research and Teaching tography exhibit with a lecture Across Cultures" will include entitled, "Art and Social Thomas Platt, professor of biol­Change" at the Cushwa­ogy, Cynthia Danford, assistant Leighton Library Media Center professor of nursing, and at 7 p.m. Claude Renshaw, professor of 
Her exhibit "On the Malecon: business administration and Portraits of Cubans" illustrates economics. her concerns about social jus­"A Taste of the World" on tice, most recently in Cuba. It Wednesday in Haggar Parlor, will be displayed Oct. 3-31. will give students a taste of mu­
"This exhibit is very timely sic, food, and fashion from sev­

1r------------------------,1
Buy 1 Dinner, Get the 1 2nd Dinner for 1/2 price! 1 
IHave dinner at the Emporium. Order one entree at the regular I 1price and get another entree of equal or lesser value for Half I 1Price! Choose from our Prime Rib, Steaks, Seafood, and I lchicken selections. All entrees include salad, choice of I lvegetable or potato and freshly baked bread & butter. I 
I  I  
:  ONE HALF PRICE ENTREE PER COUPON :  
1 L  ~...,.,,.. __________  Expires October 8, 1994 ~!_5_: ~~~::~~ !:e~d.:.2.:.4.::~~  

Universi ly or Notre Dame I nternationaI Study Program in 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA Information Meeting 
With Professor Marie-Antoinette Kremer 
MONDAY OCTOBER 3, 1994 4:30PM 207 DEBARTOLO 
l~eturning students will be on hand to answer cucqi,l!l~ 
November 2, 7994 8:30a.m.-4:00p.m. (Lunch Included) Monogram Room -Notre Dame }.A. C. C. 
Topics Covered 
•Getting 
you act together •The four job search methods 

•Self 
Assessment •The interview 

•Preparing 
your resume •Your career plan 


Cost: $9~0 per person (includes workshop, workbook, resume, & lunch) 
Call or write for registration form: CMS Management Service Co. 401 E. Colfax Street South Bend, IN 46617 (219)282-3980 

eral different countries. This 
event is completely organized 
by international students at 
Saint Mary's. 
Celebrate African-American 
poet, Maya Angelou will speak 
at O'Laughlin Auditorium on 
Thursday at 7:30 p.m. All tick­
ets for this event have been dis­
tributed. 
"We are very pleased with the student response to Maya Angelou's performance," said Ramirez. "It is unfortunate that the space in O'Laughlin is lim­ited and we can't seat everyone who wants to come, but we couldn't ask for more support. We did what we could to ac­commodate the greatest num­ber of people in the audience." 
Angelou has been hailed as 
one of the great voices of con­
temporary literature. She is the 
author of "On the Pulse of 
Morning", Just Give Me a Cool 
Drink of Water 'fore I Diie" and 
"I Know Why the Caged Bird 
Sings". She currently teaches at 
Wake Forest University in 
North Carolina. 
On Friday, Saint Mary's and 
the Asian Indian Classical 
Music Society of Michiana and 
the India Association of Notre 
Dame will co-sponsor "A 
Kaleidoscope of Classical 
Indian Dance and Music" in the 
Moreau Center Little Theatre at 
7 p.m. This performance will 
include several classical dance 
forms from India. For ticket 
information, contact the Saint 
Mary's Box Office at 284-4626. 
To carry the events of 
Multicultural week through the 
entire month, 
"(Dis)Connections: Exploring 
Cultural Identity" will be exhib­
ited at the Moreau Galleries 
from Oct. 7 through Nov. 4. 
The photography, painting, 
sculpture, and drawings of 
artists Maria Bito, Kim 
Hoffmann, Wyat Osato, Scottie 
Stapleton, and Hulleah 
Tsinhnahjinnie will be "cultural 
messengers" to visitors of the 
exhibit. An opening reception 
will be Oct. 7 at 9 p.m. · According to Ramirez, the 
purpose of Multicultural Week 
is to give students the opportu­
nity to have contact with other 
cultures through music, art, 
and performances. 
"I encourage students to take 
advantage of the week's events 
and to get involved," she said. 


London $549* Paris $499* Tel Aviv $858* Mexico City $198* Tokyo $889* Bangkok $1069* 
Coundl Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 
(312) 951-0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 
page 4 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 3, 1994 

0:··;·-...... 
. . ' " 
. ~· ,, .·
~~ 






MULTICULrMtffLL FESTIVAL
............, 

OCTOBER 2-7, 1994 
~ULTURE ON THE QUAD Adti~ sample of Notte D~'s ethnic clo~ 
12:15-1:00PM MONDAY-FRIDAY MONDAY: Amuicad,ebaJue Clib TUESDAY: NalivtAmlricaa SlidealJ al Notre DUll (NASAND) WEDNESDAY: Llaglll oJUaiudLld•Aiurica• Citizus (WLACJ THURSDAY: Africa• Amtricaa Studtal AllUuce FRIDAY: IIIdia• A.rsocialioa &Asia.. Amtricaa Associalioa 
AELDHOUSE MALL 

~IRESIDE CHATS ·Healing Our World: It's aFamily Arrau· ·Various speakers presem tltb pers~ctives 
12:15-1:00PM MONDAY-FRIDAY ND ROOM LAFORTUNE MONDAY: Do11McNeiU, C.S.C., KacieGlyu,lsaacDncaa FREE LUNCH PROVIDED TUESDAY: lotMiUu WEDNESDAY: MaJlra RyaA THURSDAY: BarbaraMan-Hwbbard FRIDAY: laAttKowraAy&JimSterba 
~NTERTAINMENT 0 N THE QUAD Muilicuiturai eruenainmeru 
4:30-6:00 PM MONDAY-FRIDAY AELDHOUSE MALL MONDAY: Georgealld tilt Frub TUESDAY: Hawaw11 CLlb &Phill~iu CLlb WEDNESDAY: BaUetFol!Iorico THURSDAY: TroopND FRIDAY: Na1ive Amtricaa Stude11Ls a1 Notre DaN (NASAND) 
~PECIAL EVENTS 
7:00 PM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM TUESDAY: Bharala Natyam (lltdia11} Da11ce Trolll't THURSDAY: BarbaraMarx-Hwbbarrl 
~ASTE OF NATIONS Ataste of international food, entert1mnt and fun 
8:00 PM -12:00 AM FRIDAY STEPAN CENTER COST $1 .00 
SPONSORED BY THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 


r 
'f 
Monday, October 3, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Unfortunately, though, only . students participating in
Loan ND to have multicultural week
President Clinton's newly cre­


continued from page 1 
deferment," she said. 
Under this program, defer­ment of FFEL, FDSL, and Perkins loans is available for those doing service: 
• 
"comparable to the Peace Corps and VISTA; 

• 
for at least a year; 

• 
a non-profit, tax exempt (501 (c)3) organization; 

• 
meeting the needs of low income people; 

• 
earning no more than the minimum wage. 


ated AmeriCorps National Service programs can qualify for Stafford Loan forgiveness. Although a broad Stafford forgiveness program was authorized in the Higher Education Act, the federal Corporation for National Service has only $3 million to put towards Stafford forgive­ness. 
Although it is not known when, Stafford forgiveness for non-AmeriCorps partici­pants may be available in the future, said Fogarty. 

Washington Hall 
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-5956 

Washington Hall Management has immediate openings for the following student-employment position: · 
Assistant Hall Manager 
Student managers work with a diverse array of campus organizations and audiences. Student managers must: 
• 
be able to work as a team or alone. 

• 
have a cum GPA of 2.8 or higher 

• 
be able to work 10 hours per week 

• 
must be able to work some weekends 



We will train students on the job, however, students who possess the following KSA's (knowledge, skills, abilities) will receive greater consideration: 
• 
technical theatre skills (sound and light) 

• 
knowledge oC M:1c programs (FilcMaker Pro, Word 5.0, Excel, PagcMaker) 

• 
creativity 

• 
certification in CPR and First Aid 



Interested students should apply at the Facility Manager's Office, 125 Washington Hall. 
By WENDY GRZYWACZ 
News Writer 
This week's annual Multicul­tural Fall Festival aims "to bring awareness of all the dif­ferent cultures at Notre Dame," according to Pam Hoskie, Ex­ecutive Council member. 
The festival kicked off yester­day afternoon with campus bands and a spiritual celebra­tion at Fieldhouse Mall. Events including entertainment and food are planned for Monday through Friday. 
Some of the week's highlights include "Culture on the Quad," featuring different ethnic clubs each day from 12 to 1 p.m. and "Entertainment on the Quad," with performances by campus bands from 4:30 to 6 p.m. at Fieldhouse Mall. 
Daily "Fireside Chats" ad­dressing the theme of "Healing Our World: It's a Family Affair" will be held from 12:15 to 1 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune, and special events including Bharata Natyam, a Native American dance group, and futurist Bar­bara Marx Hubbard are planned for 7 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday in LaFortune Ballroom. 
The week's events will culmi­nate with "Taste of Nations" on Friday from 8 p.m. until mid­night in Stepan Center, a food festival with delicacies from various ethnic groups. 
The annual festival is planned by the Multicultural Executive Council, whose mem­bers have been planning each activity since last semester. 
Member Angie McCook en­courages participation by the Notre Dame community in an attempt to "eradicate igno­rance" and foster a "common bond" between cultures. 
"It is an eye-opener, bringing it all into perspective," McCook said. 
Participants in "Culture on the Quad" include the American Lebanese Club on 
Monday, Native American Students at Notre Dame (NASAND) on Tuesday, League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) on Wednesday, African American Student Alliance on Thursday, and the India Association and Asian American Association on Friday. 
"Fireside Chats" will feature Father Don McNeill on Monday, Dr. Joe Miller on Tuesday, Dr. Maura Ryan on Wednesday, Barbara Marx Hubbard on Thursday, and Dr. Janet Kour­nay and Jim Sterba on Friday. 
"Entertainment on the Quad" will include George and the Freeks on Monday, the Hawai­ian Club and Philippine Club on Tuesday, Ballet Folklorico on Wednesday, Troop N.D. on Thursday, and Native American Students at Notre Dame on Friday. 
All events are open to the public and free, except for the "Taste of Nations," which costs $1 for admission. 


Mexican official implicated 
By ISAAC LEVI 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 
A man who confessed to a role in the assassination of a top ruling party politician told investigators Sunday the plot was masterminded by a congressman upset over plans to reform the party. 
According to a statement from the attorney general's of­fice, Jorge Rodriguez Gonzalez, who was arrested over the weekend, told police the con­gressman, Manuel Munoz PRI, in power for 65 years, Rocha, hired him and his which lost its first presidential brother. Fernando, to plan last candidate, Luis Donaldo week's killing of Jose Francisco Colosio, to an assassin's bullet Ruiz Massieu. in March. 
The congressman wanted The man who police say con-Ruiz Massieu killed because he fessed to shooting Ruiz was a member of a new group Massieu, 28-year-old horse of politicians trying to reform trainer and farmhand Daniel the ruling Institutional Aguilar Trevino, was arraigned Revolutionary Party (PRI}, the in a Mexico City criminal court attorney general quoted Jorge for murder and possession of a Rodriguez Gonzalez as saying. firearm prohibited for civilian 
Ruiz Massieu, the PHI's No. 2 use, a federal felony. He was official, was shot in the neck being held Sunday night. and killed Wednesday outside a But authorities allege Trevino 
Mexico City hotel. The gunman was part of a wider conspiracy was arrested at the scene and of at least five men, all from has also confessed, police said. Tamaulipas state. 
The slaying was the latest in Munoz Rocha is accused of a series of violent attacks that hiring the two brothers, who have rattled Mexico for more then hired Trevino as the trig­than_!!_year. It also shook thP. german. authorities sa . 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 

20% Discount 
on haircuts and brand name products with student ID and this ad 

277-3770 

1994 STUDENTS WITH MOTHER TERESA 

SAINT MARY'S SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
CHALLENGING ACADEMIC PROGRAM FOCUSING ON THE ASIAN WORLD 16 SEMESTER CREDITS APPLICABLE TOWARDS CORE OR MAJOR REQUIREMENTS 
OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL AND STUDY IN MANY COUNTRIES OF FAR EAST, SOUTHEAST ASIA, SOUTH ASIA, EASTERN AND WESTERN EUROPE. 
COST: A SEMESTER'S SMC TUITION -ROOM-BOARD PLUS A SURCHARGE. 
INFORMATION MEETING WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1994 7 P.M. HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: DR. C. PULLAPILLY MADELEVA 336.SMC. 284~4468/4474 
1994 STUDENTS AT THE TAJ MAHALL 


~~-----­
-------. 
page 6 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Monday, October 3, 1994 

r 
r 


OCTOBER 2-7, 1994 
HEALING OUR WORLD: IT'S AFAMILY AFFAIR 
~ONDAY, OCTOBER 3 
DON MCNEILL, C.S.C., KATIE GLYNN, ISAAC DUNCAN 
"Unity Through Community: Cross Cultural Experiences Through Service" 
~SDAY, OCTOBER 4 
JOE MILLER 
"The Earth Is Your Home: Is Your Room Clean?" 
~EDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5 
MAURARVAN 
"Relationships: The Building Blocks Toward AGlobal Family" 
-~RSDAY, OCTOBER 6 
BARBARA MARX-HUBBARD 
"How To Create AGlobal Fan1ily" 
. ·~IDAY, OCTOBER 7 
JANET KOURANV & JIM STERBA 
"The Ideal OfAFeminist Fanzily" 
FREE LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED 
SPONSORED BY THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 






CAMPUSES 
page 7 
Democrats at IU take stand 

By KATHY HAUSMANN 
News Writer 
The College Democrats of Indiana University formally revoked a statement of opposi­tion to the recent founding of the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Stu­dent Support Services Office made by former College Democrats President Randy DeCleene without the formal approval of the organization. The vote of the group's execu­tive council was 29 -1 in favor of the office, reversing the club's official stance on the issue. 
"Most of the democrats feel as strongly as we (the executive council) that this is the party of inclusion and we don't want to exclude anyone" said Leiellen Atz, a member of the executive council. 
The issue is not one of inclu­sion-or exclusion, DeCleene stated. "I never once said that I was opposed to the gay lifestyle," he said. "I never once said that I was opposed to the building of a gay center in the future." 
"All I said was that in the budget crunch, I was opposed to it because the money could be used for other things." 
' I never once said that I 
was opposed to the gay lifestyle. All I said was that in the budget crunch, I was opposed to it because the money could be used for other things.' 
President Randy DeCieene 
DeCleene instead argued that the $50,000 allocated for the office should fund things from which a majority of students would benefit, such as more bike racks. 
Yet Chiarn Julian, College Democrats treasurer, said that DeCleene never discussed the issue with the executive council and was unsupported by it. 
"There has been no record of us stating support of his state­ment," Julian said. "We did not support it. He never talked to us about it. he certainly never brought it up at an executive board meeting." 
DeCleene countered that he did not take a formal vote be­fore making his announcement of not supporting the GLB office because key members of the group could not find a conve­nient time to meet. 
Sally Green, President of· OUT, IU's GLB People's Union, said the College Democrat's support for the office means gays at IU have a political party to support, rather than being alienated from both parties. 
"I hope they re-organize themselves into a functioning group with a clear agenda, because' then maybe we can help each other." 
Daily Student Reporter Anne Binhack contributed to this article. 
U. of I. holds 'Localpalooza' 
By MARCY DINIUS 
Campuses Editor 
In an effort to raise money for the memorial fund established for lymphoma research after the death Economics Professor Fred Gottheil's son, University of Illinois campus radio station WPGU-FM and Gottheil joined forces to produce "Localpalooza," a show featur­ing six local bands who played on campus before students pay­ing a $5 donation for admis­sion. 
Station music director Sean Smyth thought of bringing sev­eral Urbana-Champaign bands to campus and thought of do­nating the money raised to the Josh Gottheil Memorial Fund that raises money annually on campus for lymphoma research after the death eight years ago of Professor Gottheil's son. 
Gottheil, an economics pro­fessor, was recruited by Smyth to organize the fund-raising aspects of the event. 
Bands that played included the Nirvana Cover Band, a lo­cal group of 10 and 11-year­olds who play songs by the band Nirvana, as well as other local bands Jarnbu River, Charming Beggars, the Bludgers, and Soulstice and Moon Seven Times. 
The show was held at an on­campus auditorium so that peo­ple of all ages could come, instead of at a bar where stu­dents under 19 as well as high­school students would be ex­cluded and fund-raising oppor­tunities, as a result, limited. 
The idea for the fundraiser being held as a concert carne to Smyth and Gottheil due to Josh Gottheil's appreciation for mu­sic. At only age 15, he played a large part in bringing bands like the Pixies and 10,000 Ma­niacs to campus to play. 
Gottheil stated that such a concert was representative of his son's musical ambitions in life and such an effort would have pleased him greatly. 
In 1986, the memorial fund was established by Gottheil's 
father to honor the nurses that care for lymphoma patients who undergo bone-marrow treatment that is conducted by specially-trained nurses. 
These nurses are the benefi­ciaries of the Josh Gottheil fund which was the first such fund. The development of new treat­ment techniques and the edu­cation of nurses are sponsored by the fund. 
Thus far, the fund has raised almost $250,000 and ultimately hopes to raise $1 million. In 1995, money will first be awarded by the Oncology Nursing Society. 
"One thing is certain, every penny is going to the nurses," Gottheil said in the Daily Illini. 
Volunteers stationed around campus and at football games are additionally collecting do­nations of $1 for the fund. 
Gottheil also hopes to involve fraternities and sororities in the money-raising efforts. 
Daily Illini reporter Jonathon Berlin contributed to this arti­cle. 
PSU offers Caller ID service 
By ZOE MARIN Assistant Campuses Editor 
Students at Pennsylvania State University will now know who is calling before they even pick up the phone. Bell Atlantic, the phone company that services PSU, added the new feature of Caller Identification on student on­campus phones. 
However, the only numbers displayed with Caller ID are those of other student sub­scribers. The numbers of stu­dents who do not participate in the Caller ID do not show up on the Caller ID boxes. 
The student activates the ser­vice by notifying Bell Atlantic. The cost for activation includes a $5 initiation fee and a month­ly fee of $6.50 thereafter. Students must also purchase the Caller ID number display box, costing anywhere between $30 to $60. 
Some students feel that the expense is too much to justify the usefulness of the service. 
"I don't think I'd buy it. It's just not worth it when you can pick up the phone and find out who's on the other line," said freshman Mark Cangiano in the Daily Collegian. 
Some other students find the Caller ID beneficial. 
"I have it at horne and I love it," said sophomore Marci Press in the Daily Collegian. "It's nice to know who's calling. It elimi­nates prank calls." 
The Caller ID also has a few features that allow users some freedom with identification. By dialing a code, students can prevent their phone number from being displayed on the receiver's Caller ID box. 
Likewise, the receiver can dial a different code that stops unidentified calls from being accepted. The caller must first unblock their number before calling back. 
If the student gets tired of di­aling the code before every phone call, Bell Atlantic can permanently block the phone line for free if requested. However, if the student encoun­ters a phone line that will not accept the blocked phone num­ber, the student must once again dial a code to deactivate the blocking. 
Some students feel that the additional blocking features will turn into a big, unneces­sary "Blocking War." 
"Right now I don't have any­one stalking me, so I don't see it as something that's necessary for me now. That's what they have [the code] for," said junior Jason Smith. "This stuff just gets a little silly." 
Reporter Joelle Boll con­tributed to this article. 
By MARCY DINIUS 
Campuses editor 
Students at Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis will have-a new resource for taking classes, en­tering the job market, and be­corning involved with commu­nications and production with IUPUI's membership in the Educational Television Channel on cable TV. 
The ETC serves as a campus and a community resource by broadcasting programs on job training and job market advice, courses taught at the university and humorous news . 
Courses offered range from chemistry, math, and psycholo­gy to library information, French, and history. 
Monday, October 3, 1994 
Other programs include "One Step Ahead," a show intended to aid high-school and college students in finding jobs and job training, and a news magazine show that humorously covers issues that are relevant to the IUPUI campus. 
Students are also given the opportunity to gain experience in the actual production of tele­vision programs by working with the ETC which sponsors programs for "up-and-corning" producers, according to ETC chair David Donaldson in a news release. 
Student participation in the program is directed by Open Channel, the telecommunica­tions organization club at IUPUI. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Satah Doran Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor............................... Mary Good Systems Manager............................Don Kingston Photo Editor.......................Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not n=ssarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all membets of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions cluough leuers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
Monday, October 3, 1994 
[ -~\<lNG ~ t).L O.J.'IRW--I 
~~··· 


Bengal Bouts impact hits beyond the ring 
A few years ago a Notre Dame law student won a Bengal Bouts champi­onship. "This was the only thing," he said, "that made law school worth­while." He was kidding about law school-I think. What recalled this to mind was the opening last week of the Boxing Club's novice program, which provides instruction to beginners. 
Participatory athletics have always played an important role at Notre Dame reflecting the goal of "mens sana in cor­pore sano", which, for the folks in Rio Linda (as Rush Limbaugh would say) means, "a sound mind in a sound body." Although the physical character of the Notre Dame campus has irrevocably changed, with at least two-thirds of the intramural athletic fields replaced by the parking lots and buildings charac­teristic of an aspiring "research univer­sity," the participatory athletic tradition survives in the club and intramural sports that still play an important part in campus life. 
The subject of this column, however, is unique. The Boxing Club, of which I have been privileged to be the faculty advisor since 1970, and which conducts the annual Bengal Bouts in March, is the only such program that directly saves the lives of people in need. As that pro-· gram enters its 65th year, we might well reflect on what it is that makes it uniquely beneficial to its participants and worthy of the support of the Notre Dame community. 
Initiated in 1931 by a Notre Dame leg­end, Dominic Napolitano, the Bengal Bouts derive their name from the fact that all net proceeds go to the Holy Cross Bengal missions in Bangladesh. The 1994 contribution was $13,000, an enormous sum in terms of the needs of the people there. 
In a letter to the Notre Dame student body, Archbishop Lawrence Graner of Dacca, East Bengal, wrote: "I wonder how many know just what the purpose of the Bouts is [and] what this program means to a small, but solid, group of Notre Dame men on the other side of the world, who are carrying on the tradition of Notre Dame in its truest form." Father Ed Goedert, worked 37 years in Bangladesh. Since his return to Notre Dame, he has served as chaplain to the boxers, and reminds them that "for the past 60 years proceeds from the Bouts have assisted the missionaries in their work of maintaining schools, dispen­saries, and feeding the hungry in the poorest country in the world." 

Apart from the benefit to people in need, the Boxing Club provides a unique 
Charles Rice 

experience to the participants. The stu­dent officers (this year, Jeff Goddard, Eric Hillegas, Robert Nobriga, Chris Rosen, Mike Thompson) themselves run the program, with administrative help from student managers headed by Annette Putz. Tom Kelly and Rich O'Leary, of the Recreational Sports office, provide all that could be desired in guidance and safety equipment. And Bengal champs Terry Johnson, class of 197 4, and Tom Suddes, class of 1971, donate their time each year to share the head coaching duties. All coaches are volunteers. 
Assistant coach Pat Farrell epitomized the benefits to the participants: "At Notre Dame, boxing is... an extension of tlie classroom. The vast majority of our boxers have never before been in the ring... They learned about themselves, their strengths, their weaknesses. They learned to deal with adversity under pressure... You are on your own in the ring. No substitutions, no time outs. Above all, no excuses. No rationalizing that someone else's missed block or tackle may have altered the outcome." As Bob Mohan, a Bengal champ, reflect­ed, "I've had ten years to mull over my boxing experience and I know that for me the victory was in getting myself to step through those ropes. The experi­ence has made me more willing to attempt to reach goals that seem distant or nearly impossible. I reflect back on my Bengal experience and remember how impossible stepping through those ropes seemed. It doesn't really matter whether you win or lose." 
Some might deride the Bengal Bouts as a brutal imitation of professional box­ing. That claim is unfounded. In 1988, Stockholm's Karolinska Institute, which awards the Nobel Prize in medicine, reported on the most extensive neuro­logical study ever conducted on amateur boxers. The four-year study found that amateur boxing presented no more risk than heading a soccer ball. Notre Dame's program is far more protective than even the scrupulous program in Sweden, so much so that there has never been a serious injury in the 65­year history of the Bengal Bouts. The objective is not to injure but to score points by technique. The preoccupation with safety pervades the program. 
In his eulogy in 1986 for Dominic Napolitano, Father Edmund Joyce, executive vice-president of Notre Dame, said of Nappy: "There are many people, theologians among them, who have deplored boxing as an inexcusable bar­barism, appealing to man's basic instincts, and directed toward the delib­erate physical harm of an opponent. And in its most commercial manifesta­tions they may well be right. But in Nappy's case, the brutality was removed, the hazards were minimized and a valuable learning experience was preserved ... And· what they learned had very little to do with the effectiveness of 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

a left hook. It had much more to do with absorbing a segment of Nappy's own philosophy of life, ... which incorporated a genuine spirituality with ... a competi­tive spirit, courage, self-reliance and a deep respect for one's fellowman. It has been a source of inspiration to me ... to be reminded constantly by returning former students what a decisive influ­ence Nappy had on their lives." 
The Boxing Club maintains a living link to Nappy and to Knute Rockne, who began an informal Notre Dame boxing program in the 1920s, in 81 year-old Jack Mooney, who works every day coaching the boxers and whose primary concern is their safety and their person­al development during and after the program. Jack instinctively embodies the spirit of Nappy as it was described by Tom Suddes: "His boxing instruction was not meant to teach just the 'know how,' but the 'know why.' And not just the why behind the punches or ring strategy, but the why of 'Strong bodies fight that weak bodies may be nour­ished."' 
Among members of the Boxing Club, I have noted a persistent eagerness to help other participants, including poten­tial opponents, and a remarkable awareness that the benefit to the needy in Bangladesh is more important than any personal benefit to themselves. These attitudes reflect a generosity of spirit we could all do well to emulate: Last year, Observer sports editor, Mike Norbut, summarized his Bengal Bouts experience after losing a hard fight with John Christoforetti, "I knew I had lost unanimously, but it didn't matter. I was on my feet. I was proud to be wearing gloves and head-gear. I was proud of John for winning. I was proud to be a Bengal Bouter." 
Prof Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''wedo not do what we want and yet we are responsible for what we are­this is the fact." 
-Jean Paul Sartre 
Situations 



NOTRE DAME STANFORD 
34-15 

BERRY BEARS DOWN 
• Bert Berry (right) spent most of the afternoon harassing Stanford quarterback 
Steve Stenstrom. 
-page 2 
Playing the numbers 
Sensational slats 
mean little as the 
Irish club Cardinal 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
Derrick Mayes cracked a big smile and fan­tasized for a moment. Notre Dame's wide re­ceiver liked the idea of himself playing in Stanford's pass-happy offense. 
"That sure would be nice," he said. "I could see those 15-catch days." 
But quickly Mayes clicked back to reality and voiced the resounding theme of Saturday's game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"It's nice to have the numbers, but it's bet­ter if you win." 
The Cardinal did indeed own the numbers but the Irish won the statistical game where it counted. Notre Dame 34, Stanford 15. 
It was a game for the fantasy leagues, for nerds huddling behind a computer living for the stat. Keep adding the yards, keep track of' the passes, and spell Stenstrom correctly. 
That would be Steve Stenstrom, the Cardinal quarterback who sprayed the Irish secondary 59, completing 37 and totaling 360 yards. 
Stanford ran 95 offense plays, the most ever against a Notre Dame team, and con­trolled the ball for just over 35 minutes. They 
see IRISH I page 2 
• JocK SrRiP 
Stanford offense a sputtering shrine to Stenstrom 
S
teve Stenstrom 
wore the stains of 
the struggle. 
Patches of grass and mud covered his once­white jersey, residue of several trips to the turf courtesy of an awakened Notre Dame defense. 
"It's tough to throw AssociateSportsEditor
from the supine posi­tion," Irish coach Lou Holtz said earlier in the week, a not so subtle wake up call to his defense. 
But Stenstrom left his own mark on the Irish, albeit an ultimately insignificant one. 
He left Notre Dame Stadium Saturday as the most prolific quarterback ever to play against the Irish. 
He also left as a loser. 
Stenstrom piloted a Cardinal offense that chewed up the clock and chewed up yardage, but spit out scoring opportuni­ties. 
A penalty negated a touchdown pass on Stanford's first drive and the Cardinal set-
see KELLY I page 3
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Irish cornerback Shawn Wood~n flips a Stanford receiver during the first half of Saturday's Irish victory. 
Monday, October 3, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
Stanford stifled by Irish hitting, pass defense 
Bone Awards emphasized as Notre Dames defense pounds Cardinal 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame defense had a bone to pick with Stanford's offense. And along the way, the Irish players picked up a few bones of their own. 
At the beginning of the season, defen­sive coordinator Bob Davie and defen­sive line coach Mike Trgovac invested in a box of dog biscuits, treats that they would give to the players after a bone­crushing hit. 
That investment began to pay divi­dends for them Saturday. 
"We have a bone award that we give out for big hits," Irish cornerback Bobby Taylor said. "When we get a hard hit, we're supposed to point to Coach Trgovac, and tell him we get a bone. 
"He has them in his pocket. We actu­ally get a bone. We must have had five or six today." 
Hard hits go down simply as tackles in the statistics book, but it means a lot in the intimidation category. 
"We got mad hearing that people said we don't hit as hard as previous Notre Dame defenses," Irish inside linebacker Justin Goheen said. "We just tried to physically dominate the game." 
It was a big hit from free safety Brian Magee that kept the Cardinal out of the end zone early in the game. Just seven minutes into the contest, the junior jarred the ball loose from Stanford run­ning back Anthony Bookman after he had hauled in a Steve Stenstrom pass off a Goheen tip. 
The play forced Stanford to kick a field goal, the only points the Cardinal could muster until the fourth quarter. 
"I thought we executed beautifully," Stanford coach Bill Walsh said. "We did everything but score." 
The Cardinal offense was able to run 95 plays and hold the ball for 35:07, but they were unable to punch the ball into the end zone when it counted. And the rest of the time, they could not punch it past the Irish defense. 
Notre Dame's defensive unit held Stanford to only 61 yards on the ground for the game, including a total of minus­1 at halftime. And although his personal statistics did not show it, Cardinal quar­terback Steve Stenstrom was running all day from Notre Dame's linmen and line­backers. 
Sophomore Bert Berry provided a spark for the Irish, running over the Stanford offensive line on his way to recording three sacks for the game. Goheen and defensive end Brian Hamilton also contributed with one sack apiece. 
"I personally was on a mission," Berry said. "I'm able to use my speed to my advantage. It's something that I do every day in practice." 
Notre Dame frequently used a three­man rush during the game, a tactic that has not put as much pressure on oppos­ing teams in the past, but it did on Saturday. 
"We sometimes rushed only three peo­ple, but it was not straight up," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "We used an unconventional pass rush. We had to mix it up, because Stanford's a good team." 
Despite the pressure, Stenstrom was still able to complete 37 of his career high 59 passes for 360 yards and two touchdowns, statistics that do not put a smile on Holtz's face. 
"We are not as good on pass defense," he said. "We can't give up 360 yards passing on defense. We take great pride in things like this." 

"Steve Stenstrom is a great quarter­back," Magee said. "He was doing well reading our coverages. But we really want to concentrate more on finishing games." 
Nevertheless, Stenstom could not engi­neer a touchdown drive until the score was 34-3 and there was only 11:32 left in the game, statistics that do please the Irish coach. 
"We're playing more as a team on defense," he continued. "We're develop­ing an attitude there." 
An attitude that's defined by big hits and Milk Bones. 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
totaled 421 yards on offense, compared to Notre Dame's 384. "It was a crazy, crazy game," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. 
It must have been a surreal nightmare for an old school, Woody Hayes disciple like Holtz. With starting tailback Mike Mitchell out with an ankle injury, Stanford managed only 61 yards on 36 rush attempts. 
So the Cardinal turned to the air, and with some success, but couldn't find the endzone. 
"In the first half we did everything but score," Stanford coach Bill Walsh said. 
It came back to haunt the Cardinal in the third quarter. Ron Powlus hit Derrick Mayes with a 10-yard scoring pass to open the period and then found Michael Miller streaking down the middle of the field for a 4 7 -yard score with 3:49 left. It was the senior wideout's first score at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Add Scott Cengia's 32-yard field goal and Notre Dame's 10-3 halftime lead was now a 27-3 advantage. 
"We played on equal terms for a while but then the battle of attrition started," Walsh said. "They have bigger, stronger guys at several positions and it showed in the third quarter." 
While Stanford didn't have a pass play go for over 19 yards, Notre Dame relied on the big gain the entire contest. 
Notre Dame first score, a 15-yard pass from Powlus to Charlie Stafford, came when Scott Sollmann forced and then recovered a fumble on a Cardinal punt attempt, giving Notre Dame the ball at the Stanford 20. 
Mayes score came after Ray Zellars caught a Powlus pass on fourth-and-four and went 18 yards to the Stanford 12. 
And Notre Dame's final score, a one-yard plunge by Marc Edwards, was set up by Powlus' 44-yard run on an option keep. 
Zellars also set up Cengia's second quarter field goal, a 43-yarder, with a 58­yard run to the Stanford 15. 
Powlus finished the day 11-14 for 166 yards with three touchdowns. While Stenstrom gets most of the attention, Powlus did receive a kind comment from a man who has seen his share of top quarterbacks. 
"You're not even close to what you're going to see from him when he's a junior and senior," Walsh said of Notre Dame's sophomore quarterback. 
Notre Dame's defense gave up hoards of yardage but didn't allow Stanford to score a touchdown until Mark Harris caught a nine-yard touchdown pass with 
11:32 left in the game. 
Linebacker Bert Berry had the finest game of his career. He harassed Stenstrom with three sacks and two pass­es broken up. A late personal foul was the only blemish on a career day. 
"Up until the final 15 seconds when he got the penalty, Bert played pretty well," Holtz said. 
Berry was one of many aggressors on a Notre Dame defense which set it's mind on playing more physical against the Cardinal. 
"We kind of set out this week to put the blue-collar guys against the white-collar guys," Linebacker Justin Goheen said. "If you try and Stanford you can get caught. If we were going to dominate them, it was not going to be through scheme. It was going to be through physical." 
"I think we really started to develop an attitude on defense today," Holtz said. 
And on offense the Irish continued to realize an old friend, the running attack. Notre Dame finished with 218 yards on 37 carries. 
Sophomore Randy Kinder led the way with 107 yards on 16 attempts, 104 came in th~ decisive third quarter. 
• GRADED POSITION ANALYS!S 
QUARTERBACKS--A-Not an earth-shattering performance from Ron Powlus, but an effec­tive one nonetheless. The sophomore completed 11 of 14 for 166 yards, three touchdowns, and no interceptions. He also had a 45­yard run off an option play. 
RUNNING BACKS--8+ Randy Kinder once again had a 1 00-yard rushing day, and Ray Zellars rolled over the Stanford defense. But Emmett Mosley had a problem holding on to the ball. 
RECEIVERS--A-Once again, a superb performance from Mayes, Miller, and Stafford. Each had a touchdown reception and some eye-opening catches. 
OFFENSIVE LINE--8+ 263 yards on the ground and 166 through the air is nothing to shake a stick at. But three sacks allowed put a blemish on their perfor­mance. 
DEFENSIVE LINE--A­A mean pass rush kept Stanford quarterback Steve Stenstrom either on the run or on his back all day. Gibson, Grasmanis, and Hamilton threw the Cardinal offensive line around like rag dolls. 
LINEBACKERS--A Bert Berry had three tackles on the day--all sacks. Justin Goheen had a sack and eleven tackles. Renaldo Wynn caused a fumble that set up an Irish touchdown. Jeremy Sample intercepted a two-point conversion pass. And all of them hit like banshees. 
SECONDARY--8 With the pressure on, the defensive backfield performed well. They gave up 360 yards passing, but the Cardinal could not get into the end zone until the fourth quarter. Hard hits from the Irish ended sev­eral Stanford scoring threats. 
SPECIAL TEAMS--A-Scott Cengia nailed two field goals and actually put a kickoff into the end zone. Brian Ford must have dropped the ball on his foot correct­ly, because his punts were high and deep. Scott Sollmann recovered a fumble that he caused on a punt. Only the returns were less than stellar. 
COACHING--A-Bill Walsh did his talking in a book. Lou Holtz let his team do the talking on the field. The Irish coach probably relished this victory more than any other this year. 
GAME G.P.A.--3.56 A very solid performance on the whole for the Irish. There were no gimmicks, no focusing on coaching side-shows, just hard-nosed, smash-mouth football. And Notre Dame truly smashed the Cardinal. 
-MIKE NORBUT 
~-------­
------., 
I I 
page3 
Special teams finally make special plays 
Irish defense rewarded for punishing hits 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's special teams, particularly the coverage units, looked better Saturday than they have all season. 
Scott Sollman, a converted baseball player, forced and re­covered a fumble on a Stanford punt attempt, setting up Notre Dame's only touchdown of the first half. 
"We need to put Sollman on the field more." Holtz said. "Everybody on the kicking game played well. They're a bunch of no-names." 
Kicker Scott Cengia connect­ed on two field goals, one from 43 yards and also booted his frrst touchback of the season. 
BONED: Bones are the reward for bone-crushing hits. 
Whenever a Notre Dame de­fender pops an opposing play­er. defensive line coach Mike Trgovac awards the distributor of the hit with some bones from his dog's supply. 
Safety Brian Magee received a few for a punishing hit in the ftrst half that broke up a poten­tial touchdown pass. 
"As soon as I got my hit, I went looking for Coach Trgovac," Magee said. "I want­ed my bones." 
Trgovac passed out the prizes in larger numbers than ever after an intimidating defensive performance. 
It was an awakening for the Notre Dame defense, which earlier in the season had been bone-dry. 
BROKEN PROMISE: Notre Dame tailback Emmett Mosley made a promise to Irish coach Lou Holtz last week. 
He swore he would not fum­ble the football. Against Purdue, his proved to be true to his word. 
Saturday against Stanford he reneged, coughing the ball up in the fourth quarter. 
Notre Dame already led 34-3, 

Passing Yards 360 166 
Comp-Att-lnt 37-59-0 11-14-0 
Return Yards 126 68 POINTS IOUS 
1521 1 
Punts-Avg 4-42.5 5-43.0 Fumbles-Lost 3-2 3-1
1449 2 
Penalties-Yards 5-59 2-16 Possession Time 35:07 24:53
1401 3 
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
RUSHING ·Notre Dame: Kinder 16-107, Zellars 6-86, Miller 1-13, Edwards 3-9 TO, Powlus 8-2, Mosley 3-1. Stanford: Jacobs 4­
1380 4 
1355 5 
32, Bookman 12-30, Allen 8-27, Manning 1-18, Armour 1-3, Mills 1-(minus 23), Stenstrom 9­
1202 6 
• STATISTICS  
SCORE BY QUARTERS Stanford 3 Notre Dame 7  0 3  0 12 17 7  15 34  
TEAM STATS First Downs Rushes-Yards  s 29 61  NO 16 218  

TEAM RECORD 
1. Florida (39} 4-0-0 2. Nebraska (13} 5-0-0 
3. Florida St. (4} 4-0-0 4. Penn St. (2) 5-0-0 5. Colorado (3) 4-0-0 6. Arizona (1} 4-0-0 7. Michigan 3-1-0 
8. Notre Dame 4-1-0 9. Auburn 5·0·0 10.Texas A&M 4-0-0 11.Aiabama 5·0·0 12. Washington 3-1·0 13.Miami 3-1-0 
14. N. Carolina 3-1-0 15.Texas 3-1-0 16. Oklahoma 3·1·0 17.0hio St. 4-1-0 
18. 
N. Carolina St. 4-0-0 

19. 
Kansas St. 3-0-0 

20. 
Virginia Tech. 4·1·0 21. Syracuse 4·1·0 


22. 
Washington St. 3-1-0 

23. 
Colorado St. 5-0-0 24. Wisconsin 2·2·0 25. Utah 4-0·0 


Monday, October 3, 1994 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
Scott Sollman chases a loose ball he forced on a Stanford punt attempt in the first half. 
but the play symbolized Holtz's concerns about not being able to "put the nail in the coffin." 
"We aren't going to play a tailback who lays the ball on the ground, I promise you that," Holtz said. 
WADSWORTH WELCOME: Michael A. Wadsworth, who will take over as Notre Dame's athletic director on August 1 was in town this weekend for the first time since his appoint­ment was announced last sum­mer. 
He admitted his unfamiliarity 
• SCORING SUMMARY
1160 7 1085 8 
FIRST QUARTER Stanford 3, Notre Dame 0 
(14 plays, 61 yards, 6:58) 8:02-Eric Abrams kicked a 22-yard field 
1042 9 
goal. Key Play: Irish safety Brian Magee hit Anthony Bookman on third and goal 
957 10 
knocking a potential touchdown catch incomplete. 
944 11 
932 12 
Notre Dame 7, Stanford 3 
(3 plays, 20 yards, 1:21) 3:19-Ron Powlus hit Charlie Stafford on 
852 13 
a 15-yard scoring pass. (Stefan Schroffner PAT) Key Play: Scott 
640 18 
Sollmann caused and then recovered a fumble on a Stanford punt attempt, giv­564 21 ing Notre Dame the ball at the Cardinal 
614 16 
553 20 SECOND QUARTER Notre Dame 1 0, Stanford 3 509 22 (5 plays, 39 yards, 2:42) 2:26-Scott Cengia connected on a 43­334 23 yard field goal. Key Play: Ray Zellars broke three tackles on a 58 yard run315 14 putting the ball at the Stanford 6. 
262 THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame 17, Stanford 3 261 17 (8 plays, 88 yards, 3:18) 11 :42-Derrick Mayes snared a 1 0-yard 
scoring pass from Powlus (Schroffner PAT). Key Play: Zellars rambled for 18 
247 24 
yards after catching a Powlus pass on fourth and four from the Stanford 30. 
135 15 
82 
with college athletics and spoke little of policy, but he did com­ment on his interest in return­ing to serve his alma mater in this capacity. 
"There was a certain romance involved with being associated with the university again," Wadsworth said at a media gathering before Saturday's football game. "When you look at what Notre Dame stands for-the develop­ment in education of young men and women. It's hard to imagine an opportunity more worthwhile than that." 
SCHOOL DAZE: World­renowned New York Knicks­lover and a filmmaker of some esteem, Spike Lee stood on the Stanford sideline Saturday. 
He didn't try to hide his hatred" of Notre Dame and he predicted Irish fortunes would change in the near future. 
"I'm a fan of anyone who plays Notre Dame," Lee report­edly said to Irish players in the tunnel after the game. "I'll see you in Orlando at Florida State?" 
Where does he get tickets to all these games? 
(minus26). PASSING • Notre Dame: Powlus 11-14-166-0 3TD. Stanford: Stenstrom 37-59-360-Q 2TD. RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Mayes 4-67 TO, Miller 2-51 TO, Stafford 2-24 TO, Zellars 2-23, Edwards 1-1. Stanford: Cline 8-78, Harris 6­72 2TD, Allen 6-56, Armour 6-55, Salina 4-38, Bookman 2-21, Shaw 2-14, Kirwan 1-15, Manning 1-6, Jacobs 1-5. TACKLES • Notre Dame: Goheen 11 (1 sack), Magee 10, Taylor 8, Wooden 8 (1 fum. 
rec), Sample 6 (1 int.), Covington 4, Saddler 4, Davis 4 (1 kick block); Wynn 4, Dansby 3, Berry 3 (3 sacks) Moore 2, Babey 2, Grasman is 2, Graham 2, Rossum 1, Maiden 1, Carretta 1, MacDonald 1, Wagasy 1, Gibson 1, Nau 1, Kramer 1, Cobbins 1, Hamilton 1 (1 sack). Stanford: Hamilton 8, Gibbs 6, Frost 4, Young 4 (1 fum. rec), Hall 4, Webb 3, White 3 (1 sack), Carder 2, Wong 2, Pruitt 2, Phillips 2, 
Morabito 2, Fisk 2 (2 sacks), Wermer 1 
Notre Dame 24, Stanford 3 (5 plays, 70 yards, 2:06) 
3:49 -Powlus avoided pressure and hit Mike Miller for a 47-yard score(Schroffner PAT). Key Play: When Powlus signed two years ago. 
Notre Dame 27, Stanford 3 (4 plays, 5 yards, 2:06) 
1:27 -Cengia connected on a 32-yard boot. Key Play: Shawn Wooden recov­ered a Steve Stenstrom fumble and ran the ball to the Cardinal 20. 
FOURTH QUARTER Notre Dame 34, Stanford 3 (4 plays, 81 yards, :53) 
14:20 -Marc Edwards plugged in from one-yard out (Schroffner PAT). Key Play: Powlus kept it on the option and rambled 44 yards to the one. 
Notre Dame 34, Stanford 9 (7 plays, 78 yards, 2:29) 
11 :32 -Stenstrom found Mark Harris in the heart of the endzone. (PAT blocked). Key Play: Harris took a swing pass 18 yards to the Notre Dame nine. 
Notre Dame 34, Stanford 15 (5 plays, 52 yards, 1 :26 ) 
4:37 -Stenstrom hit Harris in the heart on a crossing pattern for a 19-yard touchdown (PAT INT). Key Play: Quincy Jacobs ran 24-yards to the Irish 18. 
Kelly 
continued from page 1 
tied for a field goal.  
It would be Stanford's only points until the  
fourth quarter, despite controlling the ball for  
nearly two-thirds of the game.  
"The frustrating thing is that we knew we  
were dominating everything but the score­ 
board," Stenstrom said.  
The scoreboard was the only significant stat  
on Saturday.  
Stenstrom's 37 -for-59, 360-yard passing  
performance may have had pro scouts drool­ 
ing.  
But Cardinal heads were drooping.  - 
Stanford's one-dimensional offense dented  
the Irish defense, but didn't do any serious  
damage.  
A swarming pass rush and competent cover­ 
age kept the Cardinal under control.  
When a quarterback throws on 59 of 95  
offensive plays, defense isn't exactly a guess­ 
ing game.  
But Stenstrom managed to pick apart the  
Irish secondary despite the lack of disguise.  
He became Stanford's all-time leading pass­ 
er in the process and also fmished with 100  
completions for 1,020 yards in his career  
against Notre Dame, better than any quarter­ 
back ever to play against the Irish.  
"Stenstrom demonstrated again that he is one great football player," Stanford coach Bill  ...  
Walsh said. "You saw a gallant performance  
by a guy who just wouldn't quit."  
He couldn't quit.  
Stanford didn't have any other options.  
His only reward was a pat on the back from his coach, and a bunch of stains on his back  ..  
from the Irish.  
He will have his day in the sun, though it  
likely won't be at Stanford, where numbers,  
not wins, make him a coveted prospect.  
Statistics will carry Steve Stenstrom to the  
pros.  
But big numbers don't necessarily translate  
into success on Saturdays.  

r 
----------, 
Monday,October 3, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA page 4 


Notre Dame Stadium 
Marc Edwards plunges in for a third quarter touchdown. 
October 1, 1994 
-
Justin Goheen lunges to tip a potential touchdown pass in the endzone on Stanford's first drive. 


-

-
The Observer/Eric Ruethling The Observer/Jake Peters Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus eludes a diving Leroy Pruitt. Stanford's Mike Hall dives in vain to tackle Irish fullback Ray Zellars. 

----------------------------------------~ 
-
ACCENT 
Monday, October 3, 1994 page 9 
• fRESH THOUGHTS 
Water, water 
everywhere, 
but... 
Water is the most important component in sustaining life. One would think that this nec­essary liquid would be readily available, and most important­ly, drinkable. But, as I soon discovered, the water here at Notre Dame looks closer to milk than the clean, clear, Dave Griffith refreshing hydrogen and oxy-Accem Columnist gen blend I am used to. 
Upon arriving at the University after a four hour car ride I was a bit parched and imagined how wonderful a tall, cool glass of water would taste. So, upon entering my dorm room I turned on the faucet and filled a Styrofoam cup to the brim. The water was a bit cloudy, but I though that was normal considering the faucet had not been used all summer. 
However, I should have sensed something was wrong when I noticed that the bottom of the sink was rust stained and eaten away by some noxious chemical. But I thought to myself, "How could anything at Notre Dame be unclean?" 
I then noticed a layer of silt-like minerals had settled in the bottom of the cup. It looked like big chunks of calcium, fluoride, and other body nour­ishing minerals on a slightly larger scale. 
Now maybe I am just used to Hinkley and 
Schmidt bottled water, but I do not think that 
water is supposed to scratch going down. That 
one cup of water was like a whole meal. I had to 
chew each sip three or four times. It was like 
crushing up a bottle of Flintstones vitamins and 
mixing it with a glass of water. 
Now I avoid drinking the water here at any cost. 
I have already gone through about three gallons of 
bottled water. For health's sake, I try to drink as 
much water as possible, but the only place that I 
have found safe water is at South Dining Hall. 
Many times I have thought about taking a gallon 
·ug and filling it up. But I would probably be beat­
en about the face by the lunchroom helpers in my 
attempt to escape as if I was trying to smuggle out 
two deserts. 
Another alternative is having bottled water 
delivered to the dorm. This is a costly venture, 
with a thirty seven dollar start up fee and an addi­
tional ten bucks per bottle, but affordable (even 
for poor college kids) if split between four guys. 
The water is not even consumable if boiled, as I 
found out late one night. I was on the verge of a 
deep, drooling slumber and I knew coffee was the 
only means of remaining coherent. But to my dis­
may, my bottled water supply (hidden in the back 
of my closet for security reasons) was completely 
exhausted, probably siphoned out by the family of 
roaches still living there. . 
I reluctantly filled my hot pot with tap water and 
cranked it up to "high." I figured how the water 
couldn't hurt me if I boil it. So when the water 
came to a boil, I let it boil an additional five min­
utes, attempting to break up any gravel size min­
eral chunks left, and killing anything living in it. 
But my efforts were to no avail. I poured the 
now steaming sewage into my coffee cup and 
added the instant coffee. After stirring vigorously, 
little white globules resembling tapioca pudding 
began floating to the surface. I ended up drinking 
Mountain Dew that night. 
So what is my solution? A.) A student uprising 
against the powers that be under my leadership­
Dave "The Exalted One". B.) Every student on 
campus go to the infirmary complaining of severe 
stomach pains, diarrhea, and vertigo attributing it 
to the thick glass of water he/ she drank last night 
(They will probably just diagnose you with mono, 
but its the principle of the matter). Or C.) 
Everyone show up at Father Malloy's office tomor­
row at 9:00 A.M. with a one gallon jug in hand 
asking if you can borrow some water. 
Seriously though, the long term affects on stu­
dents from drinking Notre Dame's water are not 
clear. However, it appears that most Notre Dame 
students have been forced to turn to beer as their 
primary source of nutrients. 
The art of 
'Friendshi ment' 
one member of the caravan in partic­ular was able to capture the true feelings and emotions of these jour­neys. Kay Westhues photographed the day to day life of the journey, Cubans immigrants, and the American caravanistas. She is now sharing her experiences with the rest of the South Bend community. 
Kay Westhues traveled on ihe third caravan and photographed Cubans on the Malecon, which is a prome­nade along the harbor of Havana. Westhues photographed people walk­ing and relaxing on the Promenade. She was able to capture the emotions and feelings that depicts day to day life in Cuba. 
Westhues received her education at Indiana University, Bloomington and the Rhode Island School of Design. She has received many awards for her work, including an award at the Art and Social Justice Exhibit at Colfax Cultural Center and the Michiana Arts and the Sciences Artist Fellowship. 
Her work has been on display at exhibits throughout the Midwest. Some of her most recent exhibits were at the Drasl Art Center, the School of Fine Arts Gallery at Indiana University, Bloomington, the Bellevue Gallery, Grace College Art Gallery and Colfax Cultural Center. 
Westhues has also participated in a number of juried exhibitions, includ­ing National Exposures 90 and Creative Images 92 at the Indianapolis Art League. In order to participate in a juried exhibition, artists must be invited to attend. The work of the invitees are then judged by a jury of other artists. It is an honor just to be invited to the exhibi­tion, but Westhues has demonstrated her talent and abilities by received many awards at these juried exhibi­tions. 

Westhues' most recent exhibition, entitled On the Malecon: Portraits of Cubans features her work and the work of Cuban artists. Westhues went to Cuba to attend art confer­ences; she was impressed with the work of many Cuban artists, and decided to include their photographs in her exhibit. 
The exhibit is on display Monday, October 3 beginning at 7 p.m. at the Media Center, Cushwa-Leighton Library at St. Mary's College. The exhibit features Westhues's work as well as the work of other Cuban artists she selected. The exhibit par­ticularly focuses on the March 1994 US-Cuba Friendshipment Caravan. 
I 
Westhues will also present a slide­lecture entitled "Art and Social Change." The lecture will explain her education as an artist, her rrrst-hand experience with social justice, and why artists need to be concerned with social justice and other contro­versial issues. 
Both the lecture and exhibit are sponsored by Cushwa-Leighton Library, Justice Education, The Anthropology Club, The Office of Multicultural Affairs, The Art Department, and Campus Ministry. 
By SHANNON FORBES 
Accent Writer 
The severity of the US embargo against Cuba is constantly being depicted in newspapers and on tele­vision. Horror stories about destitute Cubans and confused Americans have dominated the news during the past year. Always included in tumul­tuous times like these, however, are hopeful people with good intentions. 
Starting Monday, October 3, the Cushwa-Leighton Library at Saint Mary's College will feature an exhibit illustrating the story of people who are determined to offer aid to suffer­ing victims. 
Recently, the political struggle over the US embargo has reached the height of its severity. The caravans have recognized the need for imme­. diate attention, and have responded by forming the US-Cuba Friendshipment caravans. The US­
Cuba Friendshipment caravans are· 
massive grassroots campaigns that 
directly challenge the US embargo of 
Cuba. 
The US-Cuba Friendshipment cara­van, under the auspices of Pastors for Peace, have traveled on thirteen different routes. The trip began February 3, 1994 and continued through March 1994. During the trip the 250 caravans delivered over 150 tons of aid, valued in excess of three million dollars, including $500,000 worth of medicines. 
Although all caravanistas demon­strated their dedication and altruism, 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 3, 1994 
-
Tie 
continued from page 20 
sive Irish shockers. 
In 1957 the Notre Dame football team defeated Oklahoma 7-0 to end the Sooners' 44-game winning streak, and in 1974 the men's basketball team upset UCLA. ending their 88-game winning streak. Both of those streaks remain the longest in history for their respective sports. 
"This is the kind of thing that happens at Notre Dame," Head coach Chris Petrucelli said. "There's some reason-! don't know why-but there's a reason the players come through. And our team came through today." 
"With a 0-0 score it looks like we packed it in and played for the tie," Petrucelli said, "but we did not do that. We came out and played." 
The Irish put North Carolina on their heels early, notching two solid scoring opportunities in the first fifteen minutes of play. 
Just minutes into play, sophomore Cindy Daws crossed a restart to Rosella Guerrero, but the junior forward misfired and Tar Heel goal keeper Shelley Finger saved the loose ball. Minutes later at the 14:52 mark, a Daws shot from just outside the box hit the crossbar before bouncing over the goal. 
But as the game progressed, the Irish were able to create fewer and fewer scoring oppor­tunities. 
A deep North Carolina bench enabled Tar Heel coach Anson Dorrance to sub freely from an 18-player rotation. Petrucelli, on the other hand, substituted just junior Stacia Masters. Keeping up with fresh Carolina players wore on the Irish and by the end of regula­tion the fatigued squad was having difficulty attacking. 
"[Dorrance] is doing what he always does," Duke coach Bill Hempen said at the end of reg­ulation. "He's subbing so much that Notre Dame is starting to wear. They're still having spurts, which is good, but they'll need emotion to carry them through the overtime." 
After Guerrero went down with a sprained ankle just 4:04 into the first overtime, it was the Irish defense-a point of concern before the game­which pulled the team through. 
" We all played together and worked as a unit in the back," senior Tiffany Thompson said. "I have to give the defenders credit." 
The Tar Heels were even impressed with the Irish back­field. 
"They were unbelievable in the back," North Carolina All­American Danielle Egan said. "Notre Dame deserved it." 
"We refused to lose," Petrucelli said. "We never broke. We bent a lot but we never broke." 
Irish 
continued from page20 
pare the Irish backfield for games against the No. 6 and No. 1-ranked teams in the country. 
But it did. 
The Irish defense was as­tounding, shutting out both Duke and North Carolina with solid unit defense. The per­formance left Petrucelli over­whelmed. 
"I am so proud of those guys in the back," Petrucelli said. "How we did it with the patchwork job we had to do, I don't know." 
Attitude 
continued from page 20 
Petrucelli may have been bit­ing his lip instead of giving it, his loose attitude displayed itself again. 
The referee had stopped the clock for a North Carolina injury. Petrucelli, not realiz­ing play had stopped, screamed for Irish sweeper Kate Sobrero to pass the ball to Cindy Daws in the midfield. When she didn't do it, he screamed again. And again. Finally, after players on the Irish bench were able to con­vince him that the clock had stopped, Petrucelli recognized the humor in his outburst. 
21Ailly we just moved to the back last week. She didn't get beat. Sobrero didn't get beat. Fisher was great. I just can't say what a job they did." 
And any time Duke or Carolina was able to take a solid shot, Renola was there for the save. 
"Jen Renola was awe­some," Petrucelli said. "She was brilliant the whole week­end." 
"She's given up some goals in some games this season that weren't so close, but this just goes to show what she can accomplish when she's focused. When it's time to play, there's no one I'd rather have on my side. She's the 
"Well, then, don't kick it to her," Petrucelli yelled, more to himself than to Sobrero, caus­ing even the players on the field to smile. 
In the closing minutes of the biggest game in his coach­ing career, with his unrested squad barely hanging on, Petrucelli found a way to light­en the mood. 
"Coach helped us chill out," said midfielder Jodi Hartwig, one of the Irish players to overhear Petrucelli. "When we've started to panic in the past, it's been nothing but detrimental, and he knows that." 
And Petrucelli's easy-going personality has rubbed off on his squad. At the tournament banquet on Saturday night player of the match. 11 
"We haven't played many tough games," Fisher said. "These games give us a lot of confidence for the rest of the season. Amy was awesome for her first games in the back." 
"The three of us had only played together in the back for a week of practice," Van Laecke, "so I'm really happy with the way we came to­gether." 
And, as Fisher noted, experience was not the most important factor in the defen­sive performance. 
"We had heart." 
And no one can exploit that. three teams ate quietly, either reflecting on losses the night before or concentrating on the games to come the next day. 
The only noise in the room was laughter and banter from the Notre Dame team. 
"They're loose, don't you think?" Petrucelli said. "But they're better like that, so I try to let them go. They're focused underneath." 
And when the Irish took the field on Sunday, their cheers, their chatter, and their smiles won them more fans than a silent Carolina machine did looking to rack up win number 93. 
North Carolina coach Anson Dorrance may have 
see ATTITUDE I page 18 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
***SPRING BREAK 95*** Looking for Student Tenant I need 2 NAVY GAs NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC America's #1 Spring Break clean,furnished,1-bedroom apt. Will pay Big $$$
NOTICES 
Company! Cancun, Bahamas, $275. 607 E. Corby-3 blocks Please call Laura at BOSTON COLLEGE GAs We need Boston College tickets! Daytona &Panama! 110% Lowest west of N.D. Ave. Deposit, 284-4328 Call Marc at X3300 or X3309 Call Jeff or Eric at 232-8337 !!!!!ATTENTION SOPHO-Price Guarantee! Organize 15 references,800-582-9320 
MORESIIIII friends and TRAVEL FREE! Earn NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC highest commissions! (800)32-I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX 
The Class of '97 Service Project will TRAVEL FOR SALE I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX PARENTS HATE YOU? BC GAS FOR SALE 
be kicking off the year with a house LETS MAKE A TRADE SELL ME THEIR NAVY TIX!! GREG 277-7475 painting project on Sunday, 10/9. It MACRI'S DELl '71 M.G. MIDGETT RED CON-I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE SERIOUS CASH!! will be the first of many projects Help wanted. Need 8-12 energetic VERTIBLE. SHARP, RUNS GOOD. DENISE X2549 CALL JERRY AT 3024 NEED GA'S FOR BYU AND AIR with the Northeast Neighborhood. people to complete our staff. Front $1,700. CALL 277-3239. FORCE, NICK X4073 Help us get off to a great siart and and back of the house positions I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX help us help others. Talk to your available. Good starting pay with I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX Need 4 BYU tickets. Student or MY MOM NEEDS 2 AIR FORCE & Sophomore Class Council Dorm benefits and bonuses. Flexible CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge-LETS MAKE A TRADE GA. Please call Joe at 4 x 4485. 1 FSU GA -KAREN 4290 Rep, or call Brian at x1 058. Thanks hours, excellent working conditions. Minutes from NO-end unit on pond-I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE -trust us... Apply within 214 Niles 18177F Stoneridge-2BR+Loft, DENISE X2549 I NEED 8 TICKETS TO BYU 
Ave. 1/2 block South of Corby's. Fireplace, All Gar w/Opener-STUDENT OR GA'S CALL PERSONAL *******YOU WILL HAVE FUN!******* 282-1351 $58,000-Call232-5190. MEGHAN X4541 NEED BYU GA'S. CALL ERIN We're Open NEED EXTRA CASH? #4015 I GIVE NEW MEANING TO THE Early, Late, &Weekends!!! TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO Bill Knapps Restaurant is now hir-WORD DESPERATE! Will trade 000 THE COPY SHOP 000
TICKETS
SEND IN YOUR DOLLAR II ing servers and hostesses. We offer I need Navy GA's PLEASE! 2Navy GA's for 2BYU or 2AirForce LaFortune Student Center send to: 54655 Irish Way #203 great pay and flexible schedules. Call Brandon at x-3460 GA's OR will pay$1call Anne#4252 Phone 631-COPY S.B., IN 46637 Apply today at WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU 222 Dixieway (US 31-33) TICKETS. CALL I NEED BYU GA'S INDIGO GIRLS-NEED tktl 271-SMC-ND STUDENTS SUMMER 
272-0370. 800-922-2327 JANET. CALL JEFF @ 277-8250 1532 TRAVEL PROGRAMS LONDON USED TEXTS CHEAP!II! AND ROME. CREDITS IN BUEC, Buy &sell used books at the only NEEDED -a RIDE from anyone I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u I need 2 BYU GAs for my parents. ED, MUSIC, HIST, &ITALIAN. hip place in town 1Q-6M-S/9-3Sun going to BOSTON COLLEGE Oct. I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. can help, call Ron at x1736 They are nice people. Call 2556 TRAVEL IN IRELAND. SCOT­PANDORA'S BOOKS 5 Or 6 call Sarah x2384 272-6551 LAND, FRANCE, SWITZ. MEET­ND ave &Howard St 233-2342 Desperate for BYU GA WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR lNG OCT. 3, 6:30 CARROLL HALL 
PIZZA MAKER -PART TIME-Ted@4-3485 2 BYU TIX. Call Val #4-2597 (SMC) FOR INFO CALL PROF. EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD Need 1 stu. ticket for Navy gamel A.A. BLACK-284-4460 OR 272­$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ MONEY. My Iii' sis is coming to visit! Please I need one Air Force GA or student Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call 3726 NEED CASH? CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW help mel x4819 ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please Sue at 277-8995 MORRISSEY STUDENT LOAN YORK call X3822. Thanks! You don't really want to drive all the -30 day loan 257-1100. $$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs. I NEED ONE AIR FORCE TICKET-way to BC...Save your time &earn
..............................., ..........
-$10 to $250 loan amounts Please call Lisa at 277-0740. Will GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CALL some$$ Sell me your tix x1475 -1% interest VOLUNTEERS ARE NEEDED AT pay top dollars.$$$ I DESPARATELY NEED 2 GA's to X3816. THANKS! -Open Mon. -Fri. 11:30 to 12:30 THE EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVEL-the Navy Game for my parents from SUPPORT GROUP FOR RAPE 
next to LaFortune Info. Desk OPMENT CENTER AT NOTRE Need BYU TIX (prefer GAs) NY-Please help! Need 2 Navy GA's. Call287-1953 SURVIVORS Open to Notre Dame $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DAME &SAINT MARY'S. SER-will pay good money or will trade Call Brian x1058-Thank you. &St Mary's Students; HELD ON
......................................
VICES SUCH AS READING, tix to any other home game Angry Airmen need Air Force GA's . CAMPUS; FREE; CONFIDENTIAL CRAFTS &PLAYING WITH CHIL-Call Dennis at (914)294-6546 Serve your country. Call x4816. Sponsored by Sex Offense OREN. 75 MINS. ONCE A WEEK. NEED 2 NAVY GA'S Services 234-0061 ext. 1308ILOST & FOUND I PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 284-NEED 2 GA's for NAVY & PAUL X4327 Need three GAs for any home 4693. NEED 4 GA's for BYU game. Call Matt at 289-2710 Wanted: The return of JASON 
-' 
FOUND: Small pair of keys outside CALL Chris x-1353 Need 2 BYU ga or studs -WILL baaahh KELLY'S PICKI of Zahm. To claim call Ed lmbus 4-PAY BIG$$$$ Call Kate @2732 My meals have been disastrous.
FOR RENT
3334. FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL I NEED 2 BYU GA'sl no longer have distinguished culi-HOME GAMES., 272-7233. HELPII Looking for 2 GAs for BYU Call Julie @277-4612 nary advice to help me pick out my 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, Call2n-3811 meals. Please, please, I beg of FOUND (mid-September): small NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED NEED TIX-5 BYU GA'S, 4 STAN-WANTED BOSTON COLLEGE you, BRING BACK JASON crucifix, near library circle. call BED &BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO FORD GA'S -Call Joe @ x2765 NEED 4 Air Force G.A.'s. Will 2771659 KELLY'S PICK! kirsten at 4-4185 if you think it NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE TRADE 4 FLA. ST. G.A.'s or other
......................................
might be yours. OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219-home game G.A.'s. Joe x1748. NY Alum needs 1-4 tickets for BYU CARRIE 773-2034 NEED 2 AIRFORCE TICKETS!! game. Call 1-800-666-4949 YOU ARE THE MOST ADORABLE Call Christy @ 4956 HELP! I need 4 Navy tickets-stud. ext. 220. Ask for Ann Hiens THING ON THIS CAMPUS
........................................
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & and GA. Call Brian at x.2034. 
WANTED 
BREAKFAST-Historic Home, quiet &&&&&&&&&&&& Kiddo, 
setting, 4 guest rooms, shared ·••··············· Needed: one BYU ticket. Need 2 tickets Happy Birthday, I hope it was a FUNDRAISING Choose from 3 dif-baths. 20 minutes to campus. Beautiful Mormons need 3 BYU Please call 634-1439 to see Maya at SMC. good one. Sorry I was not there ferent fundraisers lasting either 3 or 616-695-6321. Tickets-Call x2703. Call4-4478. with the roses, maybe next year. 
...................
7 days. No Investment. Earn $$$ Desperately need 4 BYU GA's &&&&&&&&&&&& An lllinios Farmer for your group plus personal cash Parents, Alums, need room for Call Megan at 4072 bonuses for yourself. Call 1-800-games. Comfortable home, walk NEED FSUTIX Needed:1 GA to air force and 1 GA Happy birthday Dr Powell. 932-0528, Ext. 65 to campus. 277-7371 SUSAN 2771724 I NEED 3 AF GAs-call Sam x4872 to BYU or Navy-call ann x4544 RBJr. 
_j 

--~~ 
--~

SEE THE UP-AND-COMING IRISH AGAINST . .. 
One N~AA Final Four Team. 
Two N~AA Final Eight Teams. 
Two N~AA Sweet 16 Teams. •INDIANA •DUKE 
Two NIT Teams. 
• 
BOSTON COLLEGE 

• 
KENTUCKY 

• 
MARQUETTE 

• 
DUQUESNE 

• 
XAVIER 



STUDENT TICKET DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE 
Seniors  Tuesday  Oct. 4  8 a.m.-5 p.m.  
Juniors  Wednesday  Oct. 5  8 a.m.-12:30 p.m.  
Law/Grad  Wednesday  Oct. 5  12:30 p.m.-5 p.m.  
Sophomores  Thursday  Oct. 6  8 a.m.-12:30 p.m.  
Freshmen  Thursday  Oct. 6  12:30 p.m.-5 p.m.  

STUDENT ISSUE AT GATE 10-JOYCE ACC 
1994-95 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
Nov. 17 Slovakia Jan. 15 * Hofstra Nov. 22 Verich Reps. Jan.21 Xavier Nov. 27 * Valparaiso Jan.24 Duke Nov. 29 Indiana Jan.28 Boston College Dec. 22 * St. Bonaventure Feb. 1 lona Dec. 31 * Cornell Feb.B Duquesne Jan.3 * Lehigh Feb. 12 Kentucky Jan.5 * Loyola (Md.) Feb.25 Marquette Jan. 10 * Columbia Feb.28 Loyola (Ill.) 

Games omitted from student package because of Thanksgiving and Christmas break are indicated by an asterisk(*) in the schedule. 
--~-­
page 16 
• MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY
-
Despite setbacks, Irish still finish third 

By KATE CRISHAM Spons Writer 
Neither illnesses, nor in­juries, nor the absence of their top seven runners could pre­vent the Notre Dame men's cross country team from turn­ing in an admirable perfor­mance this weekend at the National Catholic cross country championships. 
The tenth-ranked Irish gar­nered eighty points to finish in third place. Boston College won the meet with 38 points and Marquette placed second with 65 points. 
The absence of an injured Joe Dunlop and a sick captain 
J.R. Meloro, forced head coach Joe Piane to juggle his usual lineup. 
"Every one of the top six ran the best race of their lives," he said. "If you can get a kid to run the best he's ever run, that's a pretty good job." 
Piane decided not to put his usual top seven runners in Friday's race to avoid forcing them to compete three consec­utive weekends. 
"You can't run at a competi­tive level three successive weekends," he said. 
"But it gave these seven guys the opportunity to rise to the occasion, and I think they com­peted pretty darn good." 
Piane was particularly pleased with the performance of junior Shane DuBois, who finished sixth with a time of 25:37.5 
"Shane DuBois really put his nose to the grindstone and ran a great race," he said. "He and some of these other kids are going to be real contributors in the next few weeks." 
According to Piane, the team fulfilled their two primary goals: improve on their time and run as a team. 
"Our top seven all finished in the top 29," said Piane. "They ran as a tight group, which is what we needed to do, and 

~·~ PAYFOR
~ MEDICAL ~ SCHOOL 
~ Today's Air Force offers a 
scholarship program that can 
help pay the cost of medical 
school. If selected, you can contin­
ue your present studies-and 
stop worrying about how to pay 
for them. Participation is based on 
competitive selection. For informa­
tion with no obligation, talk to an 
Air Force representative. Call 
AIR FORCE OPPORTUNITIES CALL COLLECT 
317-8~8-5330 
what we didn't do against Georgetown." 
Notre Dame's other top fin­ishers included Derek Martisus, who finished eleventh with a time of 25:53.2, and Will Clark, who finished seventeenth with a time of 26.06.8. Jeff Hojnacki completed the course in 26:08 to finish eigtheenth, while Andy Burns placed twentieth with a time of 26.16.7 

The Observer· SPORTS Monday, October 3, 1994 

V01l¢Yball rallies iQ!<i {!~~ gam~s 
1!y BETS! }l~ Spon:s Wci£~r'"':ir"'~'' ,_ 
!he Stanford Cardinal!i:'were not the only floCJ. of Cardinals sent flying home from South Be.Qdlast St1turday. . . 
The Louisville Cardinals trav~ ele.<J northi.hoping. to avenge their earlier loss to theNotre Dame · volleyball team. 
lthough the Cardinals forced theJrish tO; go five games for the rust time th.ls season, their hope:•• tor a victorious reiJlatch 
ACcepted at rnore schools than you \1\/ere. 

It's everywhere you want to be: 
<C> Villa U.S.A. Inc. 1994 

nese
WE 
•Eggroll, Cream Cheese, Wonton •Egg Roll • 
•Chicken, Beef, Shrimp, & Vegetable !•Sweet & Sour Chicken!
DELIVER 
Fried Rice :•steamed Rice : 
•Sweet & Sour Chicken ••Fortune Cookie
271-0125 I 
•Chicken, Beef, Shrimp, & Vegetable 
s489
($8°0 Minimum) Sauteed Noodles 
NOW HIRING DELMRY & CASHIER ----~!~~!~!~!!>_up_~:!___ _ 
r#2came<Iayspeiiail
I I 
:•Egg Roll : 
I I 
:•Chicken Fried Rice: 
I 
!•Fortune Cookie 
i$469 

___.J 
Monday, October 3, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish held scoreless for second straight game 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sporrs Writer 
Conferences must be a gift from heaven. They pave the way to the NCAA tournament for many collegiate programs. The only games that really mat­ter come at the end of the sea­son with the conference tourna­ment. 
This is good news for the (5­
5) Notre Dame men's soccer team as they lost yesterday to (6-4-1) Wisconsin-Milwaukee 1­
0. While, the Irish dropped to 3-2 in conference play, there is no need to worry with the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament in November. 
"Too much is made of it," 
.--------------------------, 
STOP MILKING THE SYSTEM!!! 

Keenan Hall Kommons at 7:30pm on Monday, October 3, 1994 
Refreshments will be served 4mri 
coach Mike Berticelli explained. "Two losses don't effect any­thing except the [tournament] seedings, and we should be able to beat anyone in the con­ference." 
Yet, the Irish couldn't beat the Panthers as they took the lead in the match on a goal from defender Kevin Denk at 
33:41 as Denk headed in a cor­
ner kick pass from Jon Coleman. 
The Irish offense, again, was unable to convert any scoring chances. They have yet to score on the road, and have been shut out in the last two games (Wa·ke Forest and UWM). Reasons for the drought has been the absence of forward Tim Oates, who leads the team in points and goals scored. Also, the team has been unlucky, and the Irish depth is inexperienced. 
"It's no mystery," Berticelli said. "If you take out the lead­ing scorer you aren't going to 
J $1-800-TALK-USA $ 
'J
America's Inexpensive way to call collect l The II10ill$ou save Mom & Dad, the II10ill they hwe to '$you ~
C 
HIRING Ur:zl(§) EMPLOYEES 
New
High energy fast paced Some serving positions restaurant; cooks will U!ie will require a
restaurant 
open flame grills for liquor serving permit. All steaks & chicken, servers will
opening
or wood burning ovens convey a festive for pizzas. atmosphere.
soon!! 

5ll0 EDISON lAKES PARKWA\' MISHAWAKA, IN 4654S (219) 271-1692 (ON THE MEUER PARKING LOT Off GRAPE RD.) 
do as well. We dominated both games, but we had inexperi­enced freshman in there. Maybe a senior would have scored." 
Yet, when it comes to the se­niors, midfielder and captain Jean Joseph did not play. 
"There's no reason that Jean didn't play," Berticelli said. "He's not a goal scorer. We put more dangerous players in. Jean's just a player that com­plements others well." 
The best scoring chance for the Irish came in the 78th minute when a goal was scored by Konstantin Koloskov from a sliding crossing pass from Tony Capasso. The goal was called .. back as t);le linesman called the ball out of bounds before Capasso kicked it. 

Run-···· Saurday. October 8, 10:00 amc at Stepan Cent Three and six milerun$ 0 towed by a pancake breakfast. T -shirts to all finish­ers plus awards to the champi­ons ofeach division. There will ~e stud¢nt and staff divisions. R~ in advance at Re • $5 fee in advance, $6 day ofevent. More info. call RecSports at 631-6100. 
weve justdevelopedawayto make 
PowerMacintoshevenmorepowerful.
(Buyone now, andwe'll throwin all this software to help you power through college) 


package with aword processor, database, spreadsheet and more. Buy aselect Power Mac-w~th CD-ROM, and you'll also get amultimedia library of essential reference tools. It all comes wtth Power Macintosh -the computer that grows with you from college to the professional ,_ 
world. And now, with an Apple Computer Loan, it's easier than ever to 
Apple. 
own one. It's the power every student needs. The power to be your best ­

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 
on: ex/J. October 17 1994.ami/able o>1ly ubile supplill5 last. ©1994Apple computer, Inc. All righ~ reserred. Apple, tbe Apple logo, Macintosh and "'fbf pou>er to be .~<rur best" are reg~tered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. A{lpleDesign, Power Mac and Pou>er Mad11tosb are trademarks oj.~e'Jler rres ' ' Computer, Inc. Oaris~vrks IS a regrstered trademark ofClans Corpora/ron. 

-------------~---------­
---~----~-­
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, October 3, 1994 
• WoMEN's CRoss Cm.mnw 
"Coach Petrucelli has a lot 
-~ 
of pride and he doesn't like to lose, but if we give 100 percent, 
Attitude
Runners capture Invitational 
continued from page 14 that's all he asks." 
By RANDY WASINGER Sports Writer 
There's never been a ques­tion which Catholic university stands above the rest, both in the classroom and on the play­ing field. On Friday the Notre Dame women's cross country squad proved that the lofty dis­tinction included them as well. 
The near-perfect Irish amassed a total of only 26 points as they ran over the competition at the National Catholic Invitational held at the Burke Memorial Golf Course at Notre Dame. The field included teams from 22 Catholic schools from across the nation. 
Following the Irish were Boston College in 2nd place and 
Marquette in 3rd. 
The race included an exciting battle for first place as Amy Lyman of Boston College just edged Notre Dame's Kristi Kramer at the tape. Kramer was closely followed by fellow seniors Maureen Kelly and Sarah Riley to lead the Irish in defending their title from last 
season. 
• I 
r-----------~~~--~~-;r;----------, 
: 30Days 
Unlimited Tanning 
Around the Corner 
Su:qStudIo• '27:~;5tJt:: 
FREE DELIVERY TO YOUR DORM OR OFFICE 
2218 S. Main South Bend EXPIRES 11/3/94 
"We did a lot better," said 
Coach Tim Connelly. "We put 
six kids in the top ten, which is 
what I expected. We dominat­
ed the field." 
Each of the top six runners 
for the 18th ranked Irish 
improved their time from the 
previous meet against 
Georgetown, which was also 
held on the Notre Dame golf 
course. Sophomore standout 
Emily Hood was one of those 
runners. 
"As a team we did great," said Hood. "Going into the race, we wanted to keep our top seven together as long as we could. We made it about a mile and a half before we broke 
off." 
Coach Connelly had been emphasizing team running ear­lier in the week, and it definite­ly seemed to work well for the Irish. 
"We need to keep doing what we're doing and raise the inten­sity," said Connelly. "The competition will be getting bet­ter each week." 
"The first six weeks of the season, I worked the girls very, very hard," he added. "We still have a few qua,lity workouts, but our real emphasis is now on racing." 
The Irish don't have much time to savor their victory, however. Next up is the Notre Dame Invitational. Alabama is included in that field. Coach Connelly mentioned that the Crimson Tide, who are ranked in the top ten, would be Notre Dame's biggest challenge to date. 
Haue 
so me­
thing to say? Use Obseruer classifieds 
Multicultural Fall Festival: October 2-7, 1994 sponsored by 
?oiullitultural•£.tttutiw Coun<il 

Come and see the 
a2ARA1jA NAW'Ain (INDIAN) DrtNCE 1jROUPE 
perform on Tues.• Oct. 4 at 7:00 f.M. in the LaFortune Ballroom 
The dance troupe is directed by Krithika Rajagopalan. Kr:thika has been an ardent student of Natyakalalayam, a classical dance style of India, sincP-dle age of six. She performed by special invita~on in Expo'F l in CBJ)f\d.i.. She also performed in the Southeast Asian Arts Festlval in Kualalrunpm·. She has l>een a member of cultural delegntions to the old U.S.S.R. She has performed all over the world and everywhere she goes she has been a hit. 
Press Comments: 
Her performance was shMr magic, bristling with complicated foot work and a superb mime •.• Morning Star, London 
She took the audience by storm ... her lively recital wa5 marked by a sen5e of rhythm, fluidity and expressivenes5 at its perfected best ••. Chicago Tribune 
Krithika danced her way into the heart5 of art lover5 ... the . sculpture1:.1ue pose5 bore evidence of her depth of understanding of Bharata r-.:atyam .•. Indian Express, New Delhi 
Rhythm is her forte and she revelled in it. Each dance was fascinatin~ and brought a:i•. e the anc1ent temple sculptures of india ••• La 
Geneva, Switzerland 
noticed the impact the Irish attitude had on their game. 
"Be a personality out there," Dorrance yelled to midfielder Keri Sanchez during the first overtime. "Play hard." 
But Hartwig feels it might be difficult for the North Carolina players to be as loose as the Irish. 
"They're under so much pressure to be like every other North Carolina team," Hartwig said, "that they probably lose a lot of their individuality." 
r------------------------,
Buy 1 Dinner, Get the
1 1  2nd Dinner for 1/2 price!  1 1  
IHave dinner at Doc. Pierce's. Order one entree at the regular  I  
Iprice and get another entree of equal or lesser value for Half  :  
IPrice! Choose from our Prime Rib, Steaks, Seafood, and  
lchicken selections. All entrees include salad, choice of  :  
:vegetable or potato and freshly baked bread &butter.  

I .n-_CIJ• _,.,'$ ONE HALF PRICE ENTREE PER COUPON : I -Mfl{;.. ~ t£1 ~ Expires October 8, 1994 I Restaurant 120 N. Main, Mishawaka•255-7737l 
L-------~----------------~ 
MEN'S BASKETBALL SEASON STUDENT TICKETS! 
11 games for $44 -JUST $4/ GAME! 
• INDIANA • DUKE • BOSTON COLLEGE • KENTUCKY 
•MARQUETTE • DUQUESNE • XAVIER 
STUDENT TICKET DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE 
Seniors  Tuesday  Oct 4  8 a.m.-5 p.m.  
Juniors  Wednesday  Oct5  8 a.m.-12:30 p.m.  
Law/Grad  Wednesday  Oct5  12:30 p.m.-5 p.m.  
Sophomores  Thursday  Oct6  8 a.m.-12:30 p.m.  
Freshmen  Thursday  Oct 6  12:30 p.m.-5 p.m.  

STUDENT ISSUE AT GATE 10-JOYCE ACC 

So Petrucelli was thrilled 
with  his  team's  effort  on  
Sunday.  And  when  asked  
whether  his  squad's  tie  

deserves to be recognized with other historic Irish wins, his response was in character. 
"Yeah," he said simply. 
Then he smiled mischie­vously and said it with person­ality. 
"Hell, yeah." And no one needs to tell him to clean up his mouth any more. 
At Kinko's, we'll pick up your originals and deliver finished products to you.
109 E. Jefferson 
At Notre Dame, the volleyball team has delivered a
Jefferson Centre 
15-1 record and ajump to 11th in the national polls.
234·8709 
2202-C South Bend Ave. Greenwood Plaza 271·0398 


Monday, October 3, 1994 The Observer· TODAY page 19 
DILBERT 
THE. DOGBERT CONSULTlNG f'\.'< CONCLU510N 15 T\-\AT COf'\.PANY HA5 1\EVIE.WE.D !:! YOU'RE. ALREADY 
!i
THE. E~E.CUTIVE ~ HIDEOUSLY OVERPAID . 
(!;
COMPENSATION PLAN ~ 1'1"\ RECOMf'\E.NDING 
~ 
BILL WATIERSON 
ITS CLEAR I'Ll KE~ER \-1{>.'/E r., C"'RE£.R. \t-1. SP0[{\5 \l!'llll I LE.b.R.N TO surPRt.SS I'll'( Sl.lRW.JP.l INSTINCT. 

.1181
c: 1990 UniVersal Press Syndu;ale 
SCOTI ADAMS 
I'LL 5E.T OH 'f'EAH 1 AS 
YOU OON'T IF !'D WANT GE.T MUC.H 10 SPEND RE.PE.AT /"\ORE. Tll"\E. 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


::./Taste ()f f~fl\to"sl f()od~:. rous1c; and dancing t:rona lll'otn1d the \'V()tld Willbe showcased on Friday. October 7,<fi:om 8 p;m. to midriight at Stepan Center. Bring your fd~nd$ and SYll date~; Admission is $1~ 
South Dining Hall 
~~i:ern·~~i~d C~~~e~i:i 1 mli:~ ~:~~;fu~~~ of Beef Vegetablf:l Ratatouille Pasta Primaver Lemon Cheese Bar Mozzarella 
.. $aint·~ji)t's .G:X~pped Potatoes 

., 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Day in Hollywood 6 Like a V.P. 10 Hula hoops, mood rings, etc. 14 Live 15 Talk drunkenly 16 Revise 
11 Like Macaulay Culkin, in a 1990 movie 
19 Mr. Mastel 20 Diner signs 21 The Boston 
23 Sense of self 24 -Moines 26 One of the 
Greats 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:=:-t:~t:':-1 -=+~+=-B 
lliilllili-::+.7+=-1 
-:+.=:+::+=­
28 Loathed 33 Zilch 34 Egyptian deity 35 Jeanne d'Arc 
and others: Abbr. 
37 Asp 41 Straddler's spot 44 Ordinary talk 45 Roman "fiddler" 46 Composer 
Thomas 47 Western Indian 49 Hair curls 51 Cheerleader's 
prop 54 Kind of nut or 
brain 55 Live 56 Verne captain 59 Cut in a hurry 
63 Poses 65 Intersection 
concern 68 Mound 69 Tickled-pink 
feeling 70 Declaim 71 Confederate 72 Paradise 73 Big books 
DOWN 
1 N.J. neighbor 2 Plow pullers 3 Abundant 4 Ratio words 5 Bleachers 6 Mary Kay of 
cosmetics 7 Hog filler? a Certain wrestler 9 Boring tool 
10 Turk topper 
11 Run like-­12 Somber tune 13 Remained firm 
18 Trypanosome carrier 22 Divide the pie 25 --fire (ignite) 
-
Holtz, Irish spoil Stanford's day 


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, October 3z, 1994 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
.. 
As good as the best 
Notre Dame halts North Carolina's record streak 
ByRIANAKEY Associate Spons Editor 
ST. LOUIS 
When time expired, there was no celebration. No one jumped in the air. No one rushed the field. 
There were a few groups of Notre Dame players hugging each other, but they were more like hugs of consolation than congrat­ulation. 
In the first few minutes after Notre Dame's stunning 0-0 tie with perpetual national champion North Carolina, the Fighting Irish players didn't care what they had just done. Instead, their minds focused on what they had not done. 
"Right now everyone's caught up in the could haves," senior midfielder Jodi Hartwig said. "We were so close to winning and that makes us think of all the ways we 
.. would have done it." 
But it didn't take long for the disappointment to yield to happier thoughts. 
It shouldn't have. 
After all, by tying the Tar Heels, the Irish had just broken one of the longest winning streaks-92 games-in the history of collegiate athletics. During those 92 games, only five teams had managed to stay within two goals of North Carolina, and no team had taken the Tar Heels into overtime. 
The result puts this women's soccer team tie in the same cate­gory as some other pretty impres­
-
see TIE I page 14 

ByRIANAKEY 
Associate SportS Editor 
ST. LOUIS 
"Clean up your mouth." 
In his first year with the Irish, Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli may have heard that comment a lot, because during that season, he was uptight. 
But Petrucelli wasn't swearing at his play­ers. He wasn't even swearing at himself. As the story goes, Petrucelli drank so 
much Pepto Bismal during that first season that he often walked around with pink stains on his mouth. 
Since that opening year, however, as the Irish teams have gotten better and better, Petrucelli has cleaned up his act, so to speak. In fact, quips and one-liners flow from his mouth this season like the "pink stufr' used to flow into it. 
With just six minutes left in the second overtime against North Carolina, when 
see ATTITUDE I page 14 
Replacement defenders come up big 
ByRIANAKEY 
Associate Sports Editor 
St. Louis 
Kate Fisher has only been a defender for about four weeks. On most teams, Fisher would be a weak spot. Someone who is just learning the intracicies of a new position. Someone for the other team to exploit. 
But for the backfield of the Irish women's soccer team, Fisher is the veteran. 
Injuries to juniors Julie Vogel and Ashley Scharff have forced Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli to make some difficult adjust­ments to his line-up. Fisher's move to the backfield came after junior defender Julie Vogel was lost for the year during the pre­season. 
Vogel was difficult enough for the Irish to replace, but when Scharff sprained ligaments in her left ankle just before the toughest three weeks of the season, Petrucelli thought the damage may be irreparable. 
He replaced Sharff in the back­field with sophomore Amy Van Laecke, who previously had never played defender. That move pushed freshman Kate Sobrero to the sweeper position, who had to adjust from her usual spot on the wing. 
With sophomore goalkeeper Jen Renola as the only Irish de­fenseman in her true position, Petrucelli could hardly hope that one week of practice would pre­
see IRISH I page 14 

of note...
IRISH SQUEAK PAST BIRDS Christy Peters and the volleyball team rallied Check inside for results of this 
past Louisville in five games this weekend weekend's Cross-Country action See page 16 

