

Tuesday, January 18, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 70 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Deadly quake hammers Southern California 
Los Angeles hit by major earthquake 
The quake was felt at 4:31 a.m. (local time) for about 30 seconds or more, and several aftershocks followed within mirwtes. The epicenter is believed to be in Northridge which is 20 miles east of downtown L.A. The quake has been estimated to measure 6.6 on the Richter Scale. 
Major structural damage 
Major fires 

Pacific Bell is blocking calls into Southern California to keep . . the telephone network open to people in the area, according to Pac1f1c Bell spokeswoman Judy Peterson. People calling into the area will get a message saying all circuits are busy. 
AP I Wm. J. Caslello 
By CATHERINE O'BRIEN Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Searchers pulled body after body from a crumpled apart­ment complex Monday after an earthquake that snapped free­ways like matchsticks. left hun­dreds of thousands without power and water and turned the nation's busiest highway network into a commuter's nightmare. 
• see FEMA, page 4 
At least 24 people were killed. 14 in the apartment building where still more vic­tims were feared in the rubble from the third floor's collapse onto the second. 
The quake hit at 4:31 a.m. PST. shattering the sleeping suburbs of the sprawling San Fernando Valley. 20 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles. 
It measured a preliminary 6.6 on the Richter scale. was felt from San Diego 125 miles to the south to Las Vegas 275 miles to the northeast. and yet still it wasn't the long-predict­ed. long-dreaded "Big One." 
It could have been much worse. 
Freeway traffic was minimal in the predawn hours before the morning rush and on the holiday honoring the late Martin Luther King. The only traffic fatality. in fact. was a motorcycle policeman who rode off a fractured freeway as he sped to work. 
By sunrise. dozens of homes had been lost to fires that broke out on cracked and flooded streets. By sunset. more than 20 aftershocks had left resi­dents wary of their own homes. 
"The whole street was on 
fire. Even the tall palm trees were burning. It was a very frightening experience. We lost everything. We have nothing. but nobody was hurt. We're all safe," said AI McNeil. whose home in Granada Hills was destroyed by fir~. 
In just one of many rescues. searchers spent hours digging through the wreckage of a mall parking garage before pulling out a street sweeper alive. 
While the bulk of the struc­tural damage was in the San Fernando Valley. telephone service was lost throughout the region and power was disrupt­ed as far away as Canada. A freight train carrying sulfuric acid was derailed. and Los Angeles International Airport briefly closed. 
Quake refugees pitched tents in neighborhood parks and set up mobile homes in parking lots. Long lines formed outside hardware stores as residents tried to buy propane or get ply­wood to repair damaged homes. Without power. many gasoline stations remained closed. and bank teller machines didn't work. 
Soon after the quake struck. officers patrolled streets in the early morning darkness to guard against looting as police helicopters aimed their spot­lights on shattered storefronts below. 
Residents unsettled by contin­uing aftershocks huddled on sidewalks. holding candles. and packed their belongings into cars. 
Many drove aiml~ssly on darkened streets and freeways. 
A swarm of aftershocks. some 
as strong as 5.5 on the Richter 
scale. jostled the region 
throughout the day. and seis­
mologists said they could con­
tinue for several days. 
r

Events honor King's life, ' influence on Civil Rights 
By KATE CRISHAM body." News Writer Many students agreed that King's message is especially 
Yesterday's holiday honoring appropriate for the Notre Dame slain civil rights leader Dr. campus. Martin Luther King afforded "Because of our campus's many Notre Dame students the low minority ratio, it is espe­chance to celebrate both King's cially important to reflect on life and his influence on the on­this day," said sophomore going civil rights movement. Jennifer Mackowiak. "WE: must 
work together as a community 
to involve and accept others." 
• see RIGHTS, page 4 Some students felt that Notre Dame has positively responded 
A student government spon­to King's message of love and sored video presentation enti­acceptance. "I think that Dr. tled "Dr. Martin Luther King King would smile at us." said and Non-Violence" attracted senior Ross Novack. ''Notre the attention of many passersby Dame is representative of the in La Fortune. As students good aspects of civil rights. watched the presentation. Most students are very open­many paused to reflect upon minded." the meaning and importance" of Still. Novack agreed that the holiday. some Notre Dame students are 
"This is a good chance for less tolerant of diversity. everyone to become more "Even though we are not of­aware of the diversity that ex­ficially segregated. there is a that King's philosophy of non-helps a situation. We need new was held in the Basilica of the ists and should exist in our type of 'segregation by choice'," violence could be very helpful ways to deal with our prob­Sacred Heart. Various speak­world." said junior Eric Novack said. "People tend to for today's world. Pointing to a lems." ers and choral groups utilized Wozniak. "His philosophy of seek out people most like them­sign reading ·An eye for an eye In addition to the media pre­the occasion to honor the lega­community and acceptance can selves." leaves everyone blind.' sentation. a prayer service be applied to our own student Junior Erica S3.mulski noted Samulski said "violence never sponsored by Campus Ministry see KING/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, January 18, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Mother writes to killert,..------~------------___,1 
PHILADELPHIA 

Violence in the home 
A woman whose son was slain in a 
Although we most fear violence in the streets, Americans are more 
parking lot just before Christmas told 
likely to be hit, beaten, sexually assaulted, or killed by relatives at
his killer in an open letter published Monday that "God knows who you 
home than by anyone·else or in any other place. 
are and from him you can never hide." In a letter titled "To My Son's Domestic violence 
Killer ... Katherine Atlas asked why • There are at least 4 million incidents reported by women ·each year. her 23-year-old son. David. was killed • In 1991, over 90 women were murdered each week. outside a bar on Dec. 21. "Was it rob­
bery? A gang initiation? A grudge? • It is the leading cause of injury to women from ages 15 to 44, more What was more important than life?" common than automobile accidents, muggings and cancer deaths combined. Atlas wrote. "I pray for you. for one • Weapons are used in 30% of incidents. day you too will meet your maker. • In about 50% of cases, both spouses were violent. and I am sure that God will not take • Over 53% of male abusers beat their children. you in with open arms. as I know he Sources: Murray A. Straus; some statistics compiled by AP!Tom Holmes
has embraced my son." Atlas. who National Coalition Against Domestic Violence 
lives in St. Marys City. Md .. said ·.::.=A:..;,_;,;z;=..:..=::=:..::::...,f::-=:::.:."'"'1:----.-A---.--~d--.­Monday she does not believe her picture o VlO ence In menca to ay 

Forgetting resolutions isn't their only fault 
Almost three weeks ag'rl""_______ 
some of us made resolu­tions for the New Year. Maybe you resolved to spend more time on the thirteenth floor of the Library in the wake of those first semester grades. Maybe you resolved to help your 


roommates clean more  Sarah Doran  
often. Or maybe you just  Associate News Editor  
resolved to spend more  
time at Club 23. But its of  
 

no matter. as these well intended promises 
have most likely been long forgotten by now. 
That's the thing about resolutions. We look too far into the future and expect ourselves to obey distant and lofty goals that cannot be sus­tained for a year.· So instead of changing our lives. we quickly revert right back to the way· we used to be. 
During my time at home I had the opportu­nity to spend some time with a good friend of my mother's. One night my sister and I went with her to watch as she addressed a crowd on her book "Sleep with the Angels: A Mother Challenges AIDS.· During this occasion. Mary fielded a diverse array of questions on her life and experiences. But I found one question particularly interesting-the woman in the fifth row wanted to know Mary's resolutions for the New Year. 
You see. the question is interesting because Mary is the HIV positive mother of two small children. So while her infection harbors little concern for the future. her sons demand the most from it. 
Not one-Mary replied that she not one res­olution for the New Year. 
"I'd prefer to live in each day. Some days I wake up energized to play with my sons all day and after others I come home tired from speaking about HIV and AIDS.· she said. "Every day is new and different.· 
Mary Fisher has spent the last two years traveling the world with the aim of educating and promoting an awareness of a disease that has killed more than 200.000 people already and stands to infect as many as one hundred million in the coming years. Its a disease that transcends prejudices. It is a disease that our stereotypes will not hide us from. It is AIDS. 
As Mary so poignantly said. "Awareness without action is worse than no awareness at all. To know an evil and not challenge it is worse than innocent ignorance. And this is the message we all must bear: That the world cannot love us and ignore us.· 
So as your well intended resolutions quickly become a thing of the past remember what Mary said-livtl in each day. But live in this day with a greater awareness than you had of Mary and her infection even yesterday. Know that she is not a victim. but a messenger. 
And understand that each day matters. 

The views expressed in the Inside Colunm are those of the author and are not necessarily o The Observer. 
TDDAV'S STAFF 
News Accent Sarah Doran Mara Davis Liz Foran Lisa Monaco Sports Graphics Bryan Connelly Chris Weirup Production Business Lynn Bauwens Michael Martin John Rock David Clairmont Kathie Young Lab Tech Kyle Kusek 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mond.y through Friday exoepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

son's killer will read the letter, pub­lished in a column of The Philadelphia Inquirer. "I don't expect an answer. but it was just something I needed to say," Atlas said. 
Queen Elizabeth takes a royal tumble 
LONDON 
Queen Elizabeth II took a royal spill while riding one of her horses. break­ing a bone in her left wrist. Buckingham Palace said Monday. The 6 7-year-old British monarch was injured Saturday when her horse tripped during a ride at her Sandringham estate. 70 miles north of London. a palace spokesman said. "She was out riding on Saturday as usual 

when her horse tripped and fell and the queen fell onto her left wri_st," said the spokesman. who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. The spokesman said the queen's lower arm would be in a cast for several weeks. The queen is right-handed. "It is not a serious break. it is just an inconvenient thing. n 
Lesbian couple makes a political statement 
MIAMI SPRINGS. Fla. 
It's a sunny Sunday afternoon. perfect for a poolside baby shower in suburban Miami. "It's A Boy!" proclaims the banner over the front door. Guests stream through to the backyard patio. for hors d'oeuvres. punch and word games. After an "Earth mother" ceremony in which a wreath of flowers is placed around the pregnant woman. presents stacked on a table are opened for her son-to-be -shirts-and-pants sets. T-shirts. playsuits, toys. The baby shower is for Ann Harrington and Mindy McNichols. Harrington is pregnant; McNichols is her lover. Sitting side by side. they share in the gift-opening. in testimoni· als from friends and in explaining why they decided to bring a baby into their complicated world. "It's over­whelming to know that we have all this support." McNichols tells the shower-goers. who include relatives. friends and fellow activists from women's political and gay-lesbian rights groups. "A family is defined by love. and we have it. For us to have a child. for lesbians. today it is a political act." 
Beatles bringing back yesterday again 
NEW YORK 
Who says you can't bring back yesterday? Paul McCartney. George Harrison and Ringo Starr may be tak­ing a stab at it. A record company spokesman said today he could not rule out the possibility as George Harrison. Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr work on a video docu­mentary and compact disc antholog~. "It is not inconceiv­able that they might decide to have some new songs in the collection,'' said David Hughes. a spokesman for EMI records in London. the Beatles' label. "They are closely involved in putting together the video and in working with Uongtime Beatles producer) George Martin on the accompanying COs. So you can make your own deduction from there," Hughes said. The "Anthology" project includes a video autobiography and a CD collection planned for release in early 1995. 
Pepsi turns back the Coke challenge 
INAVALE. Neb. 
Coca-Cola appears to have lost its Pepsi challenge in this tiny Nebraska town. The battle began in September 1992. when someone stole the Pepsi machine from its spot in front of the garage owned by brothers Dennis and Garth Wentworth on U.S. Highway 136. It was the only soda machine within seven miles of the town of about 100 in south-central Nebraska, Garth Wentworth said. Coca-Cola Bottling Co. officials from Wichita. Kan.. stepped into the void by installing one of their machines. Then the Pepsi-Cola Bottling Co. in Hastings installed a replacement machine. The Wentworths said they paid for electricity to run both machines and expected a commis­sion from each case of soda to offset their costs. Coca­Cola only paid a $17 commission the first month, while Pepsi kept the checks coming every three months. Dennis Wentworth said. A Coca-Cola official in Wichita said Monday he was not aware of the situation and would have to research it before commenting. Wentworth said that when he couldn't resolve the commission issue he got Coke to take its machine out. 
Former porn star wins visitation of her son 
NEW YORK 
A former porno star and ex-member of the Italian par­liament was told by a judge that she can visit her 14­month-old son. who was snatched from her home in Rome on Christmas Eve and spirited to New York by her estranged husband. State Supreme Court Justice David Saxe ruled that Ilona Staller may visit her son between 9 
a.m. and 5 p.m .. provided she surrenders her passport to her lawyer. Rita Warner. The boy. Ludwig Maximilian Koons. is living in New York City with his father. artist Jeffrey Koons. Koons has filed for divorce and custody of his son. A hearing is scheduled for Jan. 26. When Koons and Staller separated in October. Staller had Koons' con­sent to take the American-born child to Italy. Warner said. Koons said he snatched the infant because Staller had broken a promise not to make any more X -rated movies and was keeping the child in an unsavory envi­ronment. Koons said he found a sex toy among Ludwig's toys. 
INDIANA Weather 
Tuesday, Jan. 18 
Accu-Weather ~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather<~ forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 18. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
20s 10s Os 
FRONTS: 
............... ...._._ .............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS 
H  L  Dallas  34  19  New Orleans  48  27  
Atlanta  34  10  Denver  40  20  New York  32  10  
Baltimore  28  5  Jackson  34  12  Philadelphia  24  4  
Boston  38  6  Los Angeles  67  38  Phoenix  75  46  
Chicago  -12  -18  Miami  74  56  Sr. Louis  16  6  
Colombus  3  -10  Minneapolis  -14.  -21  San Francisco  68  44  

FLURRIES SNOW ICE 

Tuesday, January 18, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
AIDS quilt to come to ND; 
International students increase 
outside vending explored 
By ANALISE TAYLOR in LaFortune," said Kara News Writer Christopherson. "They'll be here to see if 
The AIDS quilt is scheduled to there's an adequate market for come to the Notre Dame cam­an outside vendor." pus after a year and a half of Christopherson said. "They're planning. according to Joe looking at the whole food ser-Cassidy, director of student ac­vice system." tivities. The firm is looking for stu­
dent volunteers to help with theSTUDENT SENATE surveys and will pay $5.50 an 
The quilt will be displayed hour. she said. from Feb. 25 to Feb. 27 at Also. several representatives Stepan Center with several addressed issues concerning workshops planned for the the University's Colloquy in-event. eluding the Curriculum 
"Student volunteers are need-Committee. the International ed to help with the activities Affairs Committee, and the and events planned," Cassidy Committee on Libraries. said. 
In other news. student senate "Students and professors continues to explore the idea of have complained about gaps in bringing an outside vendor to book collections. user space. the LaFortune Student Center. better technology, and jour-
Fessil Company International. nals." said student Heather an outside consulting firm. will Arnold. be conducting a survey of 400 For interested students. the students to determine whether date for the student body elec­an outside vendor would be a tions has been changed to Feb. feasible option for the Huddle. 28. 
"They're looking at what kind Students interested in helping of food students buy. how much with the AIDS quilt can contact money they are willing to Michelle Crouch or Shannon 
By MARGARET VIDA 
News Writer 

The number of countries rep­resented by the Notre Dame student body is at an all-time high. according to a 1993-4 re­port from the Office of International Student Affairs. 
Heralding from 80 countries. this year's total is 4 greater than last year and 14 nations more than just two years ago. The number of students from foreign countries has increased as well. up from 670 last year to 688 this year. 
In particular. a great increase has occurred in the number of students from central and east­ern European countries. Arthur Grubert. director of International Student Affairs. points to the fall of the Berlin Wall as the beginning of the in­flux. 
"Before that. none of these countries had the money to of­fer programs for interested stu­dents," he said. 
"It's encouraging to see a continued increase in the num­her of students from eastern and central Europe," said Grubert. 
26 students represent the 
and the traffic..!EiiimeiGirlieBsllemlma!lnllalt!!4!1-41l9!19IOI.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiiiEiiiulilriill of 



UATHOLIU EDUCATION 
The heart ofthe matter 
Sr. Lourdes Sheehan, a.s.M. 
U.S. Catholic Conference Secretary ofEducation 
Wed., January 19 7:00p.m. Hesburgh Uenter Auditorium 
All are welcome Reception to follow 

Notice to all University of Notre Dame Faculty, Staff and Employees
' 




ADIOLOG 
+ I N C + 

is pleased to announce its outpatient offices have affiliated with CIGNA MANAGED CARE AND PPO PROVIDER NETWORKS 
Our offices offer: 
• 
easy registration 

•convenient, 
free parking 

•rapid 
turnaround of reports to your physician 


•Computed 
Tomography (CT Scans) 

• 
Diagnostic Imaging Services 


}EFFERSON MEDICAL ARTS BUILDING 919 East Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 4661 7 (219) 288-4486 
BREAST IMAGING AND INFORMATION CENTER 919 East jefferson Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 4661 7 (219) 288-4486 
• 
Mammography 

• 
Ultrasound 


MEMORIAL MEDICAL PLAZA 707 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana 46601 (219) 232,1491 
MEMORIAL SKYWAY PLAZA 610 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana 46601 (219) 232,5191 
Bulgaria. Macedonia. Ukraine. Poland. Romania, Serbia. Hungary. Slovenia. Yugoslavia. and the Czech Republic. said the report. 
Many students have chosen to study at Notre Dame out of the desire for a better education. By having studied in both their home countries and at Notre Dame. they are able to juxta­pose the education structures. 
"The education is organized differently in the United States; the system is much more rigid 
in  Bulgaria,"  said  Ivelin  
Sardomov.  who  is  from  
Bulgaria.  

The social and structural as­pects of Notre Dame do not rep­resent the only differences in attending an American University as opposed to a European University. By study­ing in America. these students are able to view the events that occur within their homelands from an American perspective. 
Freshman Konstanti Koloskov, who is from Moscow. noticed that many Notre Dame students have faulty ideas of what conditions are like in Russia. "People don't realize that everybody isn't poor (in Russia). It's not as bad as what is shown on T.V.," he said. 
Mishakov agrees with this sentiment. "The media is not incorrect with their facts," he said. "Things get exaggerated. 
.. 
"'People don't know much about Bulgaria. For so many years the focus has been on the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe has been neglected." ·he said. ""Now. the focus is more on Bosnia. Poland. and Czechoslovakia. the rest of Eastern Europe is still very much neglected. It's not that people have stereotypes. there is just a lack of knowledge." 
Despite adapting to a new. American lifestyle. many stu­dents plan to return to their home countries to work. Both Koloskov and Mishakov have plans to return to Russia. and Sardomov plans to return to Bulgaria. But they will not re­turn without being exposed to an American way of viewing the world. 
"'My work at Notre Dame has been a success. I have learned a lot," said Sardomov. "I have seen a different value system fm America). and now I evalu­ate Bulgaria in a new light and broader context. Overall. it has been a wonderful experience." 
Huddle undergoes facelift; colors and prices change 
By ANNIE VENESKY 
News Writer 
As many Notre Dame stu­dents have noticed during their first days back on campus. the Huddle has undergone a few changes since last semester. 
Perhaps the most shocking difference is the color change of the walls of the Huddle, from a light blue color to a lighter and brighter mauve color. 
"The warmer. brighter colors were specially designed to at­tract more customers. Since nothing had been done to the place since it was remodeled in 1 9 8 7. it really needed a facelift." said Dennis Koehler. assistant director of food ser­vices. 
Plans for a new carpet in the Huddle are also in the works. which would hopefully be in­stalled over spring· break. said Koehler. 
Many students may also have taken note of the increased prices in the Huddle. especially the increased price of a slice of pizza. which is up to $1.20 from $1.10. 
"Our food costs have in­creased. so we had to pass some of the expense on to the customer." said Koehler. "'In all. however. the prices of less than 15 items have been raised." 
An additional reason for in­creased prices in the Huddle is the augmented labor costs. specifically the raises afforded .to nonsalaried employees as of Jan.1. said Koehler. 
"We've also noticed that the cost of paper disposal has risen since we do try to use recy­clable items. so that may be another reason for the price in­creases."' he added. 
·by a faully healer. 
:40 p.m. Security responded to a car accident on Juniper Road. There llQ inju~ reported. 
Megan Allen and Meghan Kelley 
21 and alone in a strange land! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, January 18, 1994 
King One day not enough to remember King 


Quake area eligible for federal aid 
Upset about parietals and the alcohol policy? 

DUNK 
~~;%~~==?~~~,~~:
STUDENT AFFAIRS 

'fiiE:· 
tJ) 
The Late Night Olympics 
·"::;~%m{i~rJi(~iW!:WfJt!V 


Dunk Tank Friday, January 21 

Proceeds to benefit 

9 p.m. , 3 a.m. 
Special Olympics 
Also appearing: Leprechaun, Andy Budzinski Student Body President, Frank Flynn 
Sponsored by The Observer 
Assistant Vice President of Residence Life 

continued from page 1 By GWENDOLYN NORGLE News Writer
cy of King. 
While the official observance King's philosophy of accep­of the birth of Dr. Martintance and non-violence was Luther King, Jr. was yesterday.
compared to Jesus Christ's the day may serve as a re­
teachings of forgiveness and minder that King's work should love. Director of Multicultural be celebrated year round. 
Affairs Iris Outlaw opened the According to Rev. Theodore
service by praying that God 
Hesburgh, C.S.C.. the progresswould allow "King's dream to of the Civil Rights movementsome day become a reality." 
has gone from "total discrimi­nation to pockets of poverty."
Father Robert Dowd encour­Having been named one of theaged those present to adhere to 
original six members of the
the example of Christ and King, 
United States Civil Rights
and become "creatively malad­Commission in 1964, Hesburgh justed." 
contributed to the progress of the civil rights movement as a
"Being creatively malad­
fifteen year charter memberjusted means refusing to accept and as its chairman in his lastthe injustices of our day-on four years with the commission.
our campus. in South Bend. 
Although Hesburgh said theand in our world." said Dowd. 
state of civil rights in America 


Gun control hot topic on day for non-violent figure 
By LEONARD PALLATS Florio used his last day in office Associated Press to call for national gun control legislation. He also asked that 
The New York Legislature New Jersey not reverse the began a special session Monday state ban on semiautomatic to consider banning assault weapons that was passed dur­weapons. and activists in Ohio ing his administration. marched on Klan leaders' homes. as people around the New Jersey Citizens to Stop country marked Martin Luther Gun Violence said it chose King King Day with a burst of ac­Day and the fifth anniversary of tivism. a schoolyard shooting in 
On the day marking the 65th Stockton. Calif.. that killed five birthday anniversary of her to urge Congress to copy New husband. Coretta Scott King Jersey's toughest-in -the-nation said poverty and injustice do ban. not justify violence and brutali­In Atlanta. King's widow ty. called on young people to shun 
In several states. religious. violence. political and community lead­She cited the federal Brady ers called for tougher gun laws law as an example of recent and said it was time for an end progress toward ending vio­to violence. lence and urged support for 
But racial divisions also were legislation to require further apparent on the day honoring controls on handguns and the slain civil rights leader. In assault weapons. 
New York City. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani told a mostly black audience that he was troubled by reports many blacks fear him. A black woman shouted at him. "We find you despicable."· 
Giuliani. who is white. de­feated David Dinkins. the city's first black mayor. last year in a bitterly contested election. 
In Albany. Gov. Mario Cuomo was interrupted several times by applause when he spoke at a holiday ceremony about ban­ning assault weapons. 
Some Americans have turned the weapons into symbols of defiance in their fight against gun control. said Cuomo. who called the Legislature into spe­cial session to consider the ban. 
"Tell me. in God's name. why that should be legal anywhere in the country:-· Cuomo said. "What has this nation come to when it makes an icon. a reli­gious symbol. of a weapon?" 
In New Jersey. Gov. Jim 
"No injustice, no matter how great. can excuse even a single act of violence against another human being," King said in her annual "State of the Dream" speech. 
With violence racking the nation's cities. King's message is especially important today. said Reuben Greene. a Memphis, Tenn.. preacher tak­ing part in a memorial service at Monumental Baptist Church. 
AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! 
The Nol-00-Qoyal 6hakespeare Company's 

12lh Night 
Wednesday. January 19 ~Thursday. January 20 7-9 p.m. O'&hag Creal Hall ~ ·ons? Call Josh at 232-7109 
today is "a lot better." he agreed with President Clinton in saying that "if Dr. King were alive today. he would not be happy with the way things are." 
As Director of Multicultural Student Affairs at Notre Dame. Iris Outlaw said that many peo­ple have "forgotten the impact Dr. King made on our society." According to Outlaw. those peo­ple who have forgotten the val­ues for which King stood "should make his dream a real­ity and part of their lives not only on Martin Luther King. Jr. Day but. also. on the other 364 days out of the year. 
While Outlaw said the efforts of Multicultural Student Affairs have been "successful", she said the progress of race rela­tions on the campus of Notre Dame "has a long way to go." 
"It's O.K. to take that risk" in 
By DAVID MORRIS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Less than 10 hours after an earthquake caused major dam­age in Los Angeles. President Clinton signed a declaration declaring the area a disaster zone eligible for federal aid. 
"Our hearts and prayers go out to the people of California," Clinton said. "All of us should be very sensitive to what they are going through now." 
Clinton pledged his ad­ministration would do "every­thing we possibly can to help." 
The president hinted he might go to Los Angeles later. but said for now. "I don't want to get in the way." He noted that traffic already was snarled because of the collapsed free­ways and a presidential visit could make things worse. 
"I basically would like to have encouraging the "education of all students" about the mem­bers of another race, she said. One of the goals of Multicultural Student Affairs is "programming cultural aware­ness for the university commu­nity as a whole." 
Frederick Wright. director of African American Studies pro­gram. said that the department he heads bases much of its work on the influences of King. 
"As an academic program whose mission is to facilitate a double major in African American Studies for under­graduate and graduate stu­dents. we approve and cele­brate Dr. King all year long." 
The African American Studies program "uses his examples. his writings, his life to encour­age participation in activities to help people further understand 
a firsthand view of this," he said, "but it's got to be con­structive." 
Clinton suggested he was willing to work with Congress on possible additional emer­gency assistance. He said it was too early to tell how much fed­eral aid the city might need. 
Asked if he would consider sending Army troops to help. the president said. "If we need to do it. we can." 
Twelve search-and-rescue teams and four medical teams were sent to the quake zone by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Director James Lee Witt said before he himself left for California. 
The 56-member search teams use dogs. sensitive listening devices and tunneling equip­ment to look for survivors in collapsed buildings. 
The agency also sent portable generators to the Los Angeles the contributions of AfJtican Americans to the AmPrican nation." said Wright. 
When asked what one of the biggest steps forward that Notre Dame has taken concern­ing race relations among stu­dents ..Father Hesburgh said, "Monk Malloy's effort to get minority students here," citing the raising of an endowment in attempt to get a diversity of races on campus. 
According to Hesburgh. who once attended a rally with Martin Luther King at Soldier Field in Chicago, King made an impression on Hesburgh. "He was very charismatic," Hesburgh said. 
"Our paths were crossing," said Hesburgh, noting that both he and King were involved with the Civil Rights movement and valued nonviolence. 
area and was ready to ship water filtration systems. 
The disaster declaration. requested by Gov. Pete Wilson. makes disaster grants of $12.200 available to low­income residents. 
Others would be eligible for low~interest loans from the Small Business Administration. temporary housing, rent assis­tance and disaster crisis counseling. 
In addition to Witt. Clinton sent Housing and Urban Development Secretary Henry Cisneros. Transportation Secretary Federico Pena and Federal Highway Administrator Rodney Slater to Los Angeles. 
The emergency management agency. criticized for slow responses to hurricanes in Florida and Hawaii several years ago. reacted quickly to 
.--------­
~-------~---~-­
~ ---~--~---~-~-­
I'' 
Tuesday, January 18, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Bosnians threaten all out war Winter storm causes havoc 
By SLOBODAN LEKIC Bosnia after 21 months of war, ranks and top military leaders 
Associated Press while the Muslim-led govern­were replaced. as Midwest shuts down 
BIJEUINA. Bosnia­
Herzegovina 
Bosnian Serb leaders threat­ened Monday to unleash "all­out war" against the Muslim­led government if coming peace talks end without agreement. 
"This round of negotiations will mark a definite turning point," Radovan Karadzic. leader of the self-proclaimed Serb state in Bosnia­Herzegovina. told a Serb assembly. 
"If it becomes clear there will be no peace. we shall have to prepare for all-out war... said Karadzic, adding that the Serbs would launch an offensive to capture about 20 percent of the land now held by the govern­ment. The Bosnian Serbs have generally followed through on previous threats. 
The heavily armed Serbs cur­rently hold 70 percent of ment holds about 15 percent and Croats hold the rest. 
Croatian Foreign Minister Mate Granic also claimed on Croatian television that "war will spread" if there is no agreement in talks that open Tuesday in Geneva. 
The comments came amid signs that the government army, long the underdog in the Bosnian civil war. is becoming a better match for its foes. 
The army reportedly fought off a fierce Serb onslaught at Olovo. northeast of Sarajevo. And it continues to score suc­cesses against Bosnian Croat forces in central Bosnia. where the two sides have fought for months ovel" land unclaimed by the Serbs. 
The recent army successes follow months of intense reor­ganization. during which rene­gades were purged from the 
As Bosnia's Serbs. Croats and the Muslim-led government prepare for the new round of talks. Serb comments at their assembly in Bijeljina reflected deep frustration. 
At the last negotiatiiig session in December. the government rejected a Serb-Croat proposal that would have given it control over one third of Bosnia's terri­tory. saying its demands for access to the sea and to the Sava river in the north had not been met. 
"We must brace ourselves for the final showdown,.. said Miroslav Vjestica. a hard~line member of the Serb assembly. "We should only meet with them at the capitulation table." 
Nikola Koljevic. the Bosnian Serbs' vice president. said the assembly decided to keep the offer of one-third of Bosnia on the table. 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
l.AUNDRYFACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRJVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY 


Now TAKING APPliCATIONS FoR '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 



The· Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
1994-95 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chiefis ~ntirely responsible for the ?peratio~ of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong Interest In journalism and possess solid management, puolic relations and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to David Kinney by 5 p.m. Wednesday, january 19, 1994. For additional information about the position or the application process, contact Kinney at 631-4542 or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune Student Center. 
By ROGER PETTERSON 
Associated Press 
.Up to 30 inches of snow piled up on a layer of ice and brought parts of the Ohio Valley sliding to a halt Monday. with National Guardsmen mobilized and major highways shut down. Schools were closed from Missouri to Pennsylvania. 
"Nobody's moving," said Willie Duley. co-owner of a ser­vice station in Morgantown, W.Va. "It's pretty bad." 
A new blast of North Pole air was rushing in behind the snowstorm. and Devils Lake. 
N.D.. had a midmorning wind chill of 92 below zero. Without factoring in the wind. Garrison. Minn., was the coldest spot in the Lower 48 states at 32 below zero. the National Weather Service said. 
At least 13 deaths were blamed on snow. ice and cold during the holiday weekend. 
Schools not already closed for the Martin Luther King Jr. hol­iday were shut because of snow-and ice-covered roads in parts of Missouri. South Dakota Minnesota. Illinois. Indiana, Michigan. Ohio. Kentucky. West Virginia. Virginia, northern Georgia and Pennsylvania. Many businesses and some shopping malls also closed. 
By midday, lighter snow and freezing rain extended into New England. causing numer­ous accidents. 
State government offices were ordered closed in 15 South Carolina counties and western Maryland because of ice-covered highways. The West Virginia Legislature cut back its Monday session and the Pennsylvania House can­celed sessions for·the week. 
Ohio Gov. George Voinovich, 
West Virginia Gov. Gaston 
Caperton and Kentucky Gov. 
Brereton Jones declared emer­
gencies to mobilize National 
Guard troops and equipment. It 
was the third such emergency 
in West Virginia in two weeks. 
Louisville, Ky., Mayor Jerry 
Abramson also declared a state 
of emergency after 16 inches of 
snow fell by late morning, the 
most in the city's history. 
Traffic was at a standstill throughout most of the Louisville area and even some snowplows were stuck. 
National Guard troops used four-wheel-drive vehicles to rescue stranded motorists. 
Parts of southern Ohio. in­cluding the Cincinnati area, also were more or less shut down by up to 2 feet of snow and icy roads. Scioto County got 30 inches in places. officials said. Rural roads were closed to all but emergency vehicles. 
About 16,000 Louisville Gas & Electric Co. customers were without power. utility officials said. Schools and armories were opened for people need­ing emergency shelter. An es­timated 6,000 to 1o;ooo homes lost electricity-in Nashville. 
Maysville. Ky., City Manager Dennis Redmond said there was 22 inches of snow. Drifts in the area were 6 feet high. 
"The city is completely crip­pled right now," Redmond said. "We have doctors. oxygen patients and eme·rgency vehi­cles which need assistance from the National Guard." 
In southern Indiana, Spencer 
and Perry counties each de­
clared a state of emergency af­
ter 13 inches of snow fell. Tell 
City and Cannellton were with­
out power and police said roads 
were impassable. 
Kentucky's governor ordered 
sections of Interstates 71. 64 
and 75 closed in central and 
northern parts of the state. 
In Tennessee. ice closed sec­
tions of I-24 and I-75. and I-40 
was blocked by accidents at 
Monterey and at Crab Orchard. 
A section of I-75 in Georgia was 
clogged by numerous accidents. 
Up to 2 feet of snow and 
patches of zero visibility 
brought traffic to a standstill in 
West Virginia and closed I-68 
between Morgantown and the 
Maryland state line. Just two 
weeks ago, up to 30 inches of 
snow fell in northwestern West 
Vrrginia. 
Flights were delayed or can­
celed at airports serving 
Louisville. Cincinnati. 
Columbus, and most airports in 
West Virginia.Boston's Logan 
Airport was closed in the after­
noon by icy runways. 
A blast of cold air followed on 
the heels of the snowstorm. 
Windblown snow made travel 
hazardous· in North Dakota and 
I-94 was closed from Bismarck 
to Jamestown. 

Tuesday, January 18, 1994 
page 6 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Weather brings lull in Neo-Nazis sentenced for attack 
Islamic fighting 
By JOHN JENNINGS 
Associated Press 
KABUL. Afghanistan 
Warring Islamic factions shelled each other sporadically Monday. but snow. rain and freezing temperatures eased the battle for the capital. 
Rival parties worked behind the scenes to arrange a cease­fire. but no progress was reported. 
Bad weather has slowed the fighting on several occasions since the warfare broke out Jan. 1 between President Burhanuddin Rabbani's forces and his two main rivals. Prime Minister Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and former army general Rashid Dostum. 
Some 45 military com­manders who belong to small­er parties and are largely independent of the three main factions have joined forces to try to arrange a truce among Rabbani, Hekmatyar and Dostum. 
Rabbani, whose men control most of the capital. wants Hekmatyar to hand over his heavy weapons. Hekmatyar wants Rabbani to resign and announce a plan for elections. 
The most recent fighting is some of the fiercest since Muslim insurgents swept a Communist government from power in 1992 and began fighting among themselves. 
Hospital officials in Kabul say at least 4,000 people have been wounded and hundreds have been killed. At least 50,000 residents have fled Kabul. 
In Saudi Arabia, King Fahd and Pakistan President Sardar Farooq Leghari called for an unconditional cease-fire in Afghanistan. Their joint com­munique was released after the two leaders met. 
Saudi Arabia. Pakistan and Iran were major backers of the insurgents in their long war against a Marxist government in Kabul and 100,000 Soviet troops supporting that gov­ernment. The Soviets with­drew in 1989. 
By FRANK BAJAK 
Associated Press 
SUHL. Germany Two neo-Nazis were con­
. victed and sentenced to jail Monday for leading a beating attack on .a U.S. luge racer after insulting his black teammate. 
The Oct. 29 attack on Duncan Kennedy in the nearby winter resort of Oberhof embarrassed Germany and outraged Americans. It was the first against an American in a wave of neo-Nazi violence that has swept Germany since unifica­tion in 1990. 
Tino Voelkel. 16. and Silvio Eschrich. 21. were found guilty of causing grievous bodily harm Monday after a one-day trial. Eschrich also was convicted of beating an Oberhof man an hour after the attack on Kennedy. 
The three1udge court sen­tenced Eschrich to two years and eight months in jail and Voelkel to one year. They could have received up to five years. 
Both have long records of other offenses, including assault and car theft, and have spent time in jail in the past year. 
Kennedy. who was not badly injured in the attack, identified the two defendants as among his attackers during 45 minutes of testimony in the small. packed courtroom. 
"Out of the people hitting me. I could only see two or three faces. and they were the faces I saw," Kennedy said of the two. 
Both defendants apologized to him in court. Eschrich admitted punching Kennedy. but Voelkel denied it. 
But chief judge Wolfgang Feld-Gerdes said Voelkel played a clear part in starting the attack. which took place out­side a bar where the lugers were spending the evening. 
In the bar. Voelkel had dis­played his T-shirt with Nazi symbols to Kennedy's black teammate, Robert Pipkins. Team member Gordy Sheer. who is Jewish. and Pipkins then followed Voelkel to the bath­room and told him they found the shirt offensive. 
Voelkel and a companion left the bar and came back about 15 minutes later with about a dozen other skinheads. The Americans left quickly and the skinheads followed. shouting "Nigger out!", said Kennedy, who is from Lake Placid. N.Y. 
The defendants claimed Kennedy instigated his own beating by shouting obscenities against Germany and Nazis after leaving the bar. 
Asked by Prosecutor Peter Moekl if he cursed the neo­Nazis. Kennedy replied "No" and added: "Why would I say this to 15 skinheads?" 
Moekl noted that the skin­heads had earlier taunted Pipkins with what he called "a monkey dance." 
Voelkel's attorney claimed the attack was overblown and politicized by .extensive news coverage that made "heroes" of Kennedy and Pipkins. 
"Since nothing happened to the black athlete Pipkins one can't talk about a racist motive," said the attorney. Juern Schippel. 
Asked later in a telephone interview if he was satisfied with the jail terms. Kennedy said he wasn't sure. 
"Maybe they weren't stiff enough. I don't know," he said. "Obviously something's not stiff enough because they're proba­bly going to do it again." 

Yeltsin forges ahead despite new doubts about economy 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Boris Yeltsin tried to rally his divided government Monday and pledged to forge ahead with economic reform in the face of defections and new doubts about Russia's economic future. 
He got support from President Clinton last. week. but Yeltsin's market reforms were under fire from all sides in Russia. Yegor Gaidar. architect of the pro­gram. quit because his ideas seemed out of favor and other reformers may follow him out the door. 
As Yeltsin accepted Gaidar's resignation from the Cabinet on Monday. he repeated his com­mitment to change. 
"I would like especially to stress the continuity of the president's policy for deep democratic reforms of Russia's society. its economy and politi­cal institutions," Yeltsin said. 
But after last month's elec­t.ions showed a strong current of dissatisfaction with efforts to transform the economy. Yeltsin 
and Prime Minister Viktor 
Chernomyrdin began to speak 
of the need to "correct" the reforms and soften their harsh social impact. 
Reformers view these state-a London School of Economics analyst working with reformers in the government. 
Gaidar's resignation was fol­lowed by the resignation of Social Welfare Minister Ella Pamfilova. That put the focus on Finance Minister Boris Fyodorov, now perhaps the Cabinet's most influential reformer. 
While Gaidar had little time 
to deal with economy in recent months and was largely a sym­bolic figure. Fyodorov's tough stand on budget issues· was credited with bringing inflation down to 12 percent a month in December. 
Chernomyrdin proposed that Fyodorov keep his post as head of the Finance Ministry but without the rank of deputy prime minister. the Interfax news agency said. 
Cabinet ministers met Monday evening and aides 
described the session as stormy. with Fyodorov de­manding that his powers be expanded and include the right to veto Central Bank decisions. 
Chernomyrdin and Yeltsin were expected to announce a Cabinet shakeup this week. possibly after their scheduled meeting Tuesday. 
JND # 1 199J N A 'T'L CHAMPSI 
. r\.
Th b k
is umper Stic er may be purchased at 
Sign & Design on Sample Road 
(one block west from Farmer's Market) 
ments as a victory of the r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cabinet's "go-slow" faction. 
If true, that would mean "a new turn in economic policy and the whole of economic reform," said Pavel Teplukhin. 

The Observer 
Viewpoint Department is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Copy Editor 
Applicants should submit a resume and a 1-2 page personal starement by 5 p.m., Thursday, January 20. Contact Suzy Fry at 631-4541 for more information. 
ROME PROGRAM Meeting 
Wednesday January 19 7:00p.m. Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall Saint Mary's College 
Study in Rome for one semester or for the year Italian is not a prerequisite for participation Application deadline April 1 

I 
Tuesday, January 18, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Final Iran Contra report issued 
ByPETEYOST 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The special prosecutor's re­port on the Iran-Contra scandal goes public Tuesday. and the document's strong criticism of two ex-presidents and Cabinet members in the Reagan admin­istration is expected to trigger a furor. 
People named in the report were 
contacted Monday by the clerk's office of the federal ap­pellate court which has 

custody of the Ronald document -Reagan telling them that the report will be issued Tuesday. according to several recipients of such telephone calls. 
Lawyers for ex-President Reagan have assembled a 122­page rebuttal to Walsh's criti­cism, said one of Reagan's lawyers. Theodore Olson. 
The report by independent counsel Lawrence Walsh ­completed last August but sealed in court files since ­chronicles the seven-year crim­inal investigation of the Iran­Contra prosecutor. 
In the report. Walsh alleges that Reagan "set the stage" for the scandal's illegal activities and that "contrary to public pronouncements. (then-Vice President) Bush was fully aware of the Iran initiative," according to sources who have seen portions of the report. In addition, the report concludes that former Attorney General Edwin Meese assembled a "false account" of one of the arms-for-hostages deals with Iran, the sources have said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Olson maintains Reagan's conduct in the scandal "was above reproach." 
Bush's lawyers maintain their client never misled the public about his role in the affair. Bush asserts that he did not realize that the secret White House arms sales to Iran were a swap of weapons for American hostages being held in Lebanon. 
Meese called Walsh's conclu­sions "outrageous" and the for­mer attorney general says he plans to "confront Walsh's false statements head on." 
Reagan, Meese and ex-White House aide Oliver North filed secret court papers last month seeking to block the report's release -but the special panel of three appellate court judges that has been holding the re­port for the past 5 1/2 months ordered its release. 
Walsh obtained convictions against 11 people in the scan­dal. but his two biggest court victories were lost on appeal ­the cases against former na­tional security adviser John Poindexter and North, who now is seeking a seat in the U.S. Senate from Virginia. 
Walsh's biggest setback came on Christmas Eve 1992, when Bush scuttled Walsh's case by pardoning former Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger on charges of lying to Congress and to Walsh's investigators. The pardon came two weeks before the scheduled start of Weinberger's trial-in which Bush was a potential witness. 
Walsh accused Weinberger of concealing his handwritten notes, which detailed key White House meetings with the presi­dent and the Cabinet in the Iran-Contra scandal. The notes suggest that Meese and other Cabinet members protected Reagan by saying the president had not known about one of the arms-for-hostages deals -a possibly illegal shipment of Hawk missiles to Iran in November 1985. 
Weinberger repeatedly told investigators he did not keep notes, but prosecutors found thousands of pages of jottings by Weinberger in 1992 in a pri­vate collection of Weinberger's papers at the Library of Congress. 
Also on Christmas Eve 1992, Bush pardoned three ex-CIA 
officers.  former  National  
Security  Adviser  Ro·bert  
McFarlane  and  former  

Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams. 
The congressional inquiry into Iran-Contra placed much of the blame for the scandal on North. Poindexter and McFarlane. 

Change in Iraq arms sales unknown to Major 
By KARIN DAVIES 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Prime Minister John Major insisted repeatedly at an inquiry Monday that he knew nothing of a decision to relax government guidelines on defense sales to Iraq. 
Major was testifying in an investigation that he ordered to unravel the controversy over whether the government violat­ed its own policy or changed it without telling the public. 
The case also has raised questions about Major's com­petence. Opponents say he either misled the public or was indefensibly ignorant of what took place around him. 
Britain announced curbs on sales of arms and defense­related equipment to Iran and Iraq in 1985. But British com­panies sold parts for a giant gun and machine tools capable of making ballistic missiles and artillery shells to Iraq right up until Baghdad invaded Kuwait in August 1990. 
Three British businessmen were charged in 1992 with ille­gally selling arms -making equipment to Iraq, but the prosecution's case collapsed when former Defense Minister Alan Clark testified that he had encouraged the sales. Major then ordered the inquiry. 
Clark subsequently told the inquiry that the government relaxed restraints on arms sales to Iraq in January 1989, but didn't tell Parliament. to avoid objections. 
Major's inquisitors on Monday doggedly questioned him about that, but Major's tes­timony was blunt: he did not know about the change until November 1992. two years after he succeeded Margaret Thatcher as prime minister. 
Major was treasury secretary at the time the guidelines allegedly were loosened. 
Major said that after be­coming Thatcher's foreign sec­retary in July 1989. he only saw a passing reference to the arms sales guidelines. 
"Neither at that stage, nor later. was I fuvolved in the for­mulation of the guidelines, con­sideration of the guidelines, amendment of the guidelines or interpretation of the guide­lines," Major said. 
He said he is not convinced that the rules were ever relaxed. This, he said, is for the inquiry to decide, not him. 
"I am very reluctant to make a hindsight judgment about what might have been in the minds of ministers sometime earlier," Major said. 
In testimony last month. Thatcher said she had not known about the arms-related sales to Iraq and that there was no substantive change in policy. just a change of inter­pretation. 
Gerald Kaufman. the op­position Labor Party's spokesman for foreign affairs, said that Major's testimony Monday contradicted what Major's office had said in 1992. 
"The prime minister's office 
announced that the change in 
t-I.APP\! BJRTt-ID.A\! M~t-l.AN! 

Study: POW's taken to Soviet Union 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
About 50 U.S. servicemen missing from the Korean War. including three airmen shot down in a B-29 bomber. were taken secretly to the Soviet Union and never returned, a comprehensive new s·tudy ordered by the Pentagon con­cludes. 
The conclusion, in a report prepared by Rand Corp. for the Defense Department. parallels 
Packages Include: YIP partv package: 
7-Night Packages from 
./Round-Trip Air ./Nightly Cocktail Parties ./ 7 Nights Hotel ./ Late-Night Dance Parties ./Airport Transfers ./Events at all of Cancun's
$ 
Hottest Bars and Clubs
./College Tours Famous ./ 10-* Party-3 hours of
VIP Party Package 
free food and drink! ./ On-Site Professional 
./ Pro-Beach VolleyballStaff and Office 
./ Save over $150 with our 
./ Discounts and more! Indianapolis and famous party program! 
Chicago Departures 
Join over 3 coli students who travel on the #1 For more information call your campus rep or contact: 
COlliII JDURI Motr~~a81e2~ ~{o~arys 
1-800-395-4896 Tom 273-5968 

an assertion the U.S. govern­ment made to Moscow last September that it had de­veloped broad and compelling evidence of such transfers. 
The Rand study. however. discounts the possibility that the Soviets took more than about 50 Americans. The U.S. government claim was of sev­eral hundred transfers. al­though officials since have backtracked by lowering their estimate and saying their September claim overstated the certainty of their knowledge. 
Charles Freeman. Jr .. the assistant secretary of defense for regional security affairs. stated in a Nov. 4, 1993, letter that "perhaps a dozen may have been transferred" and noted the Russian government has not admitted to any trans­fers. 
About 8.100 American ser­vicemen officially are listed as unaccounted for from the Korean War. but Rand esti­mates that the true number for which there is no direct evi­dence of death is 2.195, and some of those probably disinte­grated on the battlefield. 
The Rand study says there is little doubt that the Soviets took Americans during the 1950-53 war in which Moscow's forces in North Korea and China se­cretly fought air battles against 
U.S. and allied planes and interrogated American prison­ers. The main uncertainty is how many were taken: the study said. 
The Soviet 64th Air Corps was headquartered during the war at Mukden. China, and an air defense unit organized under the 64th was based at Andong. China, near the Korean border. Also, Soviet military intelligence during the war was organized under the 64th. although the KGB operat­ed independently. the study said. 
"There is no doubt. and there is ample direct eyewitness testi­mony to support the conclusion that Soviet intelligence organs exploited U.S. servicemen in Korea, in China and on the USSR territory." the study con­cluded. 
The report's author. Paul Cole. said Monday he believes one of the estimated 50 Americans taken to the Soviet Union and not returned may have been Air Force Capt. Ara Mooradian. of Fresno, Calif.. the bombardier in a B-29 bomber shot down over Korea 

Tuesday, January 18, 1994
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 



Poor unsure of rebellion's benefit 
By JOSEPH B. FRAZIER 
Associated Press 
SAN CRISTOBAL DE LAS 
CASAS, Mexico 
For now. the rebels have withdrawn and the shooting has subsided. But the poor peo­ple in whose name it all began wonder if their lives will ever really improve. 
Centuries of mistreatment and neglect in the pine forests of Chiapas. Mexico's poorest state. make for cynicism as deep as the Mayan roots here. 
Some 700 refugees from a mountain village who took refuge in the nearby town of Huixtan last week refused to give their names to members of the government Human Rights Commission who were trying to track reports of abuse. 
It is a government they no longer trust. They know that for all the commissions formed and all the investigations launched, the power to change their lives remains in the hands of a few in a massive. smoggy capital hundreds of miles to the north. 
They are not impressed by the government-appointed, three-member Chiapas com­
mission made up of a senator. a writer and an anthropologist. 
"The commission says it has no authority to solve the con­flict or to solve our problems," said one speaker at a three-day meeting of more than 140 Mexican and Mexican-Indian community leaders which ended Saturday. 
'What can they resolve. I ask you?" 
The leaders had met to form a statewide organization. inde­pendent of the politicians. rebels and the church. to deal with issues they believe nobody else can solve. 
"We of the region have never hidden the fact that the women and children of the poor are dying," said another speaker. "How do we· resolve this? Where do we go? To the United Nations or the President of the United States?" 
The regional leaders waited all day Friday. when the Chiapas commission was here. for them to appear. But it didn't happen. 
"They didn't come to see us and it proves that to them the 'campesinos' are worth noth­ing," said a speaker who identi­fied himself as Companero 
Aristide supporter wary ofU.S. policy on Haiti 
By MICHAEL NORTON The embargo, however. Associated Press appears to be hurting the poor -Aristide's political base ­PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti more than the anti-Aristide 
A key supporter of Haiti's army and civilian elite. exiled president called U.S. pol­icy toward Haiti "fishy" on In Miami on Saturday. Monday and attacked Aristide asked foreign gov­Washington for rejecting Jean­ernments to help restore him to Bertrand Aristide's plea for a power on Feb. 7. the third quick return to power. anniversary of his in­
auguration. 
The Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, a government official under Christopher crippled. perhaps Aristide and like Aristide a killed the initiative by withhold­Roman Catholic priest. said ing American support for a 
U.S. Secretary of State Warren deadline. Christopher's rejection typified It appears unlikely Aristide the inconsistent support could return to Haiti anytime Washington has given Haiti's soon. first freely elected president since his exile 28 months ago. Former supporters of the for­
mer Duvalier dictatorship lead 
Aristide. elected in December a growing pro-army paramili­1990. was ousted by the army tary group. Last week. Frantz in September 1991. Robert Monde, a former mem­
"If Mr. Christopher sincerely ber of the Tonton Macoute. wanted to help us, he could do Duvalier's private militia. was it tomorrow. There is some­elected president of the lower 
thing fishy about the Clinton house of parliament. administration's policy toward Haiti," Jean-Juste told The The 29-year Duvalier dynasty Associated Press. without elab­tortured and killed thousands orating. of Haitian through the militia. 
Supporters and human rights groups have accused 
Washington of favoring the mil­
itary leaders who killed hun­dreds of AristideJollowers soon after the coup. 
President Clinton and former President George Bush have said they support Aristide's return, but Washington has been reluctant to get militarily involved. It has backed a U.N. fuel embargo on Haiti to pres­sure its military. 

Cancun Mexico  f.om$439  
Negrll Jamaica  f.om$449  
Montego Bay Jamaica  f.om$419  
Daytona Beach, FL  J.om$149  
Panama City Beach, FL  f<om $129  

aE 
~ 
Onatampus contad: Mike @634-4451 Angie @634-4659 Michael @634-1121 12('l "'~:....,......_St., tlhoc:a, NY 1.._8~ l-800-648-4849 
Marcelino. Commission members did finally appear on Saturday. 
Eraclio Zepeda. a respected regional author. cautioned them that to advance their cause they needed the support of Mexican and Indian law­makers. 
Andres Fabergas Puig, an anthropologist and professor. told leaders they should take advantage of the opening creat­ed by the New Year's Day uprising. 
"But you will fail if it is done outside of your communities." Zepeda said. in apparent refer­ence to keeping the protest within the system. 
A few hours later Jorge Gonzalez Torres. the presi­dential candidate for the Mexican Green Party. held a rally in the town plaza of this 16th century city. 
Hundreds of Indian men. mostly Chamulas. huddled around as Gonzalez Torres spoke in measured terms about deforestation and other prob­lems facing Indians trying to scratch a living from the moun­tains. Women. all barefoot and some pregnant. kept their dis­tance. tending the children. 

U.N. Chief orders release ofAidid supporters 
By CLARE NULLIS 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 
The United Nations has ordered the release of eight supporters of Somali faction leader Mohamed Farrah Aidid who were detained in connec­tion with attacks on its peace­keeping operations. 
They were the last of about 750 Somali detainees to be ordered freed. Monday's order was an attempt to improve relations with Aidid, who opposes the U.N.'s presence in the war-shattered country. 
It came amid reconciliation efforts between Somali clans in Mogadishu and U.N. plans to scale back its presence. 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali also ordered all restrictions lifted on the movement of Omar Jess and Gen. Hersi Morgan. two opposing militia leaders ban­ished from the southern city of Kismayo by Belgian troops. 
Jess is allied to Aidid. Morgan is the son-in-law of ousted dic­tator Siad Barre. The two had fought for control of the port city. hindering U.N. efforts to distribute aid. 
Boutros-Ghali ordered the release of the detainees after meeting with Enoch Dumbutshena. a former chief justice of Zimbabwe who was appointed as an mediator to review the cases. 
Dumbutshena visited Somalia earlier this month. None of the prisoners had been charged. had no legal representation and were not allowed to be inter­viewed by journalists. U.N. offi­cials cited security reasons for their detention. 
Aidid had claimed their detention was proof of U.N. bias against him. 
The most influential figure set to be released was Osman Hassan Ali. nicknamed Ato. a businessman who was finance chief for Aidid. He was arrested last September. 
Ato is reportedly one of the main importers of khat. the narcotic-like leaf flown in from Kenya and chewed by Somalis. Profits from the sale of khat are allegedly used to buy arms. 
Campus Bible Study 
SECOND SEMESTER: CBS: 102 :01* 
WILL MEET TUESDAY NIGHTS AT 7:00 PM FIRST CLASS TUESDAY, JANUARY 18,1994 IN CAMPUS MINISTRY CONFERENCE ROOM 
IN BADIN HALL REQUIRED TEXT: HOLY BIBLE 
OPEN ENROLLMENT ; NO' PRE-REQUISITES ALL STUDENTS WELCOMED 
DIRECTOR: FR. AL D'ALONZO, CSC 
* THIS IS AN INTFRF/·.iTH Bffil E STI7DY CCrC;-RSE, NO CREDITS AWARDED I·TFRF, BUT G:\F:\'f T\.E\.".1 t\RDS HEREAFTER 

...
,. 
-~~~-------~~,.,...,,..,..~-,-...,...-.------. --r-----~----~----~---------­





BUSINESS 
Tuesday, January 18, 1994 page 9 
BUSINESS FORUM 
Editor calls for faculty, student parttctpatton 
With the beginning of a new semester also begins a new focus for the Observer business page. 
The new business staff recognizes the special needs of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's business community. The business department 

realizes that The Observer, 
Michael Martin 
as a member of the family 
Business Editor 
of newspapers and maga­zines known as "campus publications," must bring the news of the day to communities whose make-up is rather different from the average community served by metropolitan and national publications. The Observer must bring the news to an academic community built on a founda­tion of learning. 
Students often remark that some of the most rewarding classes are memorable not just because of an energetic teacher or an engaging textbook, but because of the way such classes translate academic exercises into the "real world." 
The learning that we students find inside the classroom helps to make sense of what we find when watching the evening news or reading news magazines. Learning is a journey that does not stop at the classroom door. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are in an environment of education, and yet some­times we are unable to bring this education to bear on the world outside of the campus. 
Although we are here to take part in the exchange of ideas that starts in the classroom, our experience can include much more. 
The Observer business department would like to produce a business section that not only reports news that affects the world that we all live in, but also tries to make sense of a number of often complex events. 
The business department, therefore, invites professors-particularly in the business and economic fields-to write commentaries in col­umn format on current events in the world of business. We welcome input from other profes­sors as well, for instance those professors with environmental concerns related to the business world. 
This space each week will be used to take 
advantage of the special opportunity facing the 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's business commu­
nity-the· opportunity to hear what the 
informed experts of our learning community 
have to say about current business issues. 
The department also invites students to write 
on the world of business on our campus and in 
the surrounding area. 
So often campus-our home for much of the year-is taken for granted as a place where nothing interesting happens. But there are sto­ries both on the campus and in the surrounding area of great relevance to the business and eco­nomic world that have not yet been told. Each week the business department hopes to have this sort of profile on the business world in our community. 
Business columns will run every Tuesday in this space. All professors and students in­terested should contact me, Michael Martin, either at The Observer 1-5323, or at 4-1228. Or, drop off any relevant responses and ideas to the Business Mailbox in The Observer office. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 


Lawmaker backs food stamp reform 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Banks have been expanding ser­vices available electronically to its traditional customers. A lawmaker now suggests adding a new wrinkle: dispensing food stamp benefits. 
Rep. Markt Lytle, D-Madison, has introduced legislation requiring the state to ask federal permission to launch an electronic-benefits trans­fer pilot project. 
Lytle says electronic food stamps could reduce fraud and cut adminis­trative costs. 
The House Ways and Means Committee has recommended pas­sage of the bill, which now awaits action by the full chamber. The Bayh administration says a switchover is not likely to happen anytime soon. 
More than 180,000 Hoosier house­holds receive food stamps each year, and the monthly benefit for a family of three is $295. The federal govern­ment issued $398 million worth of · food stamps in Indiana during the 1992-93 budget year. 
In most counties, food stamps are issued through local welfare depart­ments, then signed and handled in grocery stores much like a personal check. 
Under an electronic system, banks would issue cards with electronically encoded benefit information on a magnetic strip. Food costs would be automatically deducted at the gro­cery store from an individual's spe­cial account. 
A one-county pilot project pro­posed by Lytle would cost the state and personnel turnover, would com­face value to get cash, said Joan between $1.9 million and $4.6 mil­plicate switching to an electronic Uebelhoer, northeast Indiana's dis­lion, according to an estimate pre­system. trict director for the Division of pared by the nonpartisan Legislative Grocers like the idea, because Family and Children. 
Services Agency. The project would some food stamp users make pur­Rep. R. Michael Young, R­cost an additional $500,000 a year to chases of only a few cents in order to Indianapolis, complained that lifting run, but the costs of expanding it to get cash in change, said Joe Lackey, the stigma from using food stamps more counties would be modest, the executive director of the Indiana could lead more people to use the agency said. Retail Grocers Association. program. He said instituting such a 
State welfare director James program before engaging in welfare 
Hmurovich says start-up costs, com­Some recipients also sell food reform would be "putting the cart 
bined with rising welfare caseloads stamps on the street for less than before the horse." 

Last-lllinute deal with 
rcalls.)): specta.I board 
. 
.

China averts textile war 
meettng
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER countries. These include administration Associated Press charges that China has not done enough yet in the human rights area to WASHINGTON justify renewal of "most-favored­
The board of directors ofThe United States withdrew an order nation" low tariffs on Chinese goods Eli lilly and Co. held a spe­Monday that would have barred more shipped here. 
cial meeting Monday, withthan $1 billion in textile imports from Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen market analysts saying theChina after an 11th-hour agreement was scheduled to arrive in Beijing on 
pharmaceutical maker
averted a trade war. Wednesday for three days of talks with 
wotil.d ,b(J strengthened by
After three days of negotiations in Chinese officials on a broad range of selli:ng off its medical in·Beijing, both sides 
human rights and economic issues. 
struments units.
signed a new three­President Clinton must decide by June year pact covering tex­whether to extend China's low tariffs. 
The Indianapolis-based
tile and apparel ship­The textile negotiations resumed late 
company planned to com­
ments from China to Sunday night only after the U.S. side plete a review of those op·the United States. signaled that it was ready to stop talk­
erations before the first
The agreement will~ ing and allow the quota restrictions to 
quarter· began. Lilly
limit the growth in take effect. 
spokesman Ed West said
Chinese textile and c:# At a signing ceremony in Beijing, early Monday evening thatapparel imports to the Lloyd Bentsen Chinese Trade Minister Wu Yi hugged the meeting was over, butUnited States while her American negotiating counterpart, had no further comment orproviding new powers to stop illegal Jennifer Hillman, and said, "What we statement
transshipments, which circumvent U.S. have promised, we will do." quotas by routing Chinese products Henry A. Truslow III, president of the 
"We think that Lilly wouldthrough third countries. American Textile Manufacturers 
strengthen its position by
The U.S. industry had claimed these Institute and head of Sunbury Textile divesting most or all of itsillegal shipments were worth $2 billion Mills in Pennsylvania, said that the U.S. 
medical instruments systems annually and cost 50,000 U.S. jobs. textile industry was happy that the business, which we think col­"What we were facing in this area agreement will provide at least a lectively could fetch in the was massive fraud. The Chinese gov­framework for dealing with future neighborhood of $2 billion."
ernment knowingly and willing allowed quota violations. 
said Ronald Nordman:n, a state-run industries to circumvent But he said, "By not cutting back on drug stocks analyst for Paine agreed upon rules," said U.S .. Trade China's quotas, the U.S. government Webber in New York. 
Representative Mickey Kantor. missed an opportunity to send a strong Kantor said he hoped the new agree­signal not only to China but to other Lilly's nine device com­ment would be the beginning of "a transhippers such as Pakistan who ille­
panies' products include
much healthier and more productive gally circumvent our quotas." 
heart defibrillators, balloonrellitionship" with the Chinese. Kantor had originally threatened to 
angioplasty catheters and
But he insisted there was no link cut quotas by 25 percent to 35 percent diagnostic tests used in hos·between resolution of the textile dispute on 88 categories of Chinese cloth prod­pitals and laboratories.
and other tensions between the two ucts. 

10/1/93 11/1193 12/1/93 1/1/94 2/1/94 
---·----~­
page 10 





VIEWPOINT 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advenising Manager..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor.............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager.............................. Patric"-Barrh Photo Editor ....................~.: ......... Jake Peters OTS Director.... ; ........................... Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor............ .Jennifer Habrych Controller ........."..••..•.•..•••....•...........Mark Meenan 
The Observer is rhe independenr newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion of either institu£ion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as posSible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns presem the views of the amhors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accenr/Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoinr 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 63I-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-747I 
FRANK PIMENTEL HEARTS AND MINDS 
Select commencement speaker to prevent boredom 
practicing Catholic speaker. To his best books are Born Again,
would be a poor choice) seem process to decide the issue good by remaining."
that end I have two suggestions. Loving God, and recently, The
to agree in principle on drug since the Constitution does not Beyond abortion itself, Justice 
The first would have to be Body. The last of these is a
legalization, though their rea­specifically address it. While I Scalia has written to preserve
William Buckley, Jr. To begin powerful look at Christian ser­
sons are quite different I sus-would have gone further, the rights of abortion protest­
with, Buckley is funny. This is vanthood from an ecumenical
pect. · Justice Scalia's comments were ers. 
a trait not often in ample supply perspective.
noteworthy: He has a traditional under­
on the commencement speaker Last year he was awarded the
My second Catholic choice is "The Imperial Judiciary lives. standing of the First 
circuit. He is also perhaps the world's largest prize (including 
Supreme Court Justice Antonin It is instructive to compare this Amendment's Establishment (of 
definition of a Renaissance the Nobel), the Templeton, for
Scalia. Arguably, he is the high­Nietzschean vision of us un­Religion) Clause, which would man. Bill Buckley is a novelist, est-placed Catholic in govern­elected, life-tenured judges ... permit such things as prayer at adding to man's understanding magazine editor-at-large of God. Colson would undoubt­
ment . service (excepting with the somewhat more mod­public school graduation cere­
(National Review, the magazine edly challenge our graduates in
Speaker of the House Tom est role envisioned for these monies, despite what a majorityhe started nearly 40 years ago), Foley). but you didn't even lawyers by the Founders .... of the Court held on the subject. a way that few others could. 
serious sailor, failed politician, Here's hoping that the admin­
know he was Catholic, did you? "[By] foreclosing all demo­Justice Scalia favors individu­
columnist, talk-show host, de­istration takes a cue and selects 
Enough said. cratic outlet for the deep pas­als over government in the area 
bater, and an up-front Catholic somebody with gravitas. That
Justice Scalia clearly is the sions this issue arouses, by of private property ownership
in what has undoubtedly been a way, we won't have to worry
conservative voice of the Court, banishing the issue from the and the Fifth Amendment's WASP world (i.e. Yale) for him. and recognized by many as the political forum that gives all Takings Clause, a right at the about yet another liberal Perhaps most importantly, English major valedictorian (at
Court's overall intellectual participants, even the losers, core of a free, capitalist society. Buckley is widely acknowledged voice, to the point where the the satisfaction of a fair hearing And in a case of local note, least two years running now) 
as the father of the modern trying to upstage the speaker,
Clinton administration was said and an honest fight, by continu­Justice Scalia agreed with the 
or speaking without a thought­conservative movement. Rush to be set upon finding a liberal ing the imposition of a rigid Court's majority that nude 
Limbaugh (now lhere would be ful conservative counterbal­
(i.e. Justice Ginsburg) who nati(}flal rule instead of al­dancing is not a protected First 
another great choice, but I'm ance, thereby making the whole 
could sit opposite Scalia. lowing for regional differences, Amendment conduct. He quite
attempting to deal in the world thing a vacuous bore.
Notably, Justice Scalia dis­the Court merely prolongs and sensibly pointed out that places of the possible) looks up to him. sented in Casey v. Planned intensifies the anguish. like the Kitty Kat Lounge have 
And Buckley is not a doctri­Parenthood, which preserved a "We should get out of this nothing at all to do with free­Frank Pimentel is a 1987 
Notre Dame graduate and cur­
naire conservative either. woman's liberty interest in area, where we have no right to dom of expression. 
rently a third-year student in
For instance, he and Surgeon procuring abortions. Scalia, in­be, and where we do neither Finally, I will drop a non-
General Joycelyn Elders (she Catholic name since the Law School. 
stead, would allow the political ourselves nor the country any 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY
DOONESBURY 



ZONKeR! 
'' A mystic bond of brother­.1"\..hood makes all men one." 
--Thomas Carlyle 
I· I 



ACCENT 
Tuesday, January 19, 1994 page 11 
MEDICAL MINUTE
An inside look 
Holy Cross Associates serve, learn in nation's larger cities 
By MATT CARBONE Christopher Nanni fits this words were needed to solve the Dickson, citing the tight bond Accent Writer bill. A 1988 graduate of Notre teens' complicated problems. between the Associates in her 
Dame, he faced the familiar Soon, though, he realized that house and their shared experi­
After attending four years at dilemma-social service or a more was needed. ences as one of her favorite Notre Dame, the typical student job. "I learned early on in my aspects of the HCA program. develops a strong desire to get "After struggling internally Associate year that people Dickson also enjoys the sim­involved in community or social with this dilemma, I devised a change and are transformed ple life which the Associates in service work. Yet at the same plan that would allow me to do primarily through relationships her Brockton house live. time, after these four years, both," said Nanni. "I would take -not words," said Nanni. "We are living alongside the there is also a strong desire to a year off, experience life Nanni learned this lesson people we serve," Dickson said, get out into the "real" world. exploring the injustices and after speaking with a sufcidal a fact which she said has made For those caught in this com­dark side of society and then 14-year-old crystal methadone her appreciate what she has mon dilemma, there is a solu­return to the real world. and cocaine addict he coun­back in her Austin home: "a tion: the Holy Cross Associates. "This sounded like a feasible seled one night. table to eat at, food, family, an 
The Holy Cross Associates is Two weeks later, Nanni found education, a roof over my head, "a postgraduate, lay, Catholic, out that although the teen had and warm clothes for the win­one-year volunteer program," ' I (wanted to) take a remembered nothing of what ter." said Jeff Hammes, interim year off, experience Nanni had said, he was soothed "I felt I took all of these things director of the HCA program. by the fact that Nanni had for granted," Dickson said. 
life exploring the injus­
Applicants accepted to the taken the time to be with him. To focus on their simple liv­program are placed in one of tices and dark side of This experience had initially ing, Dickson and her fellow five different cities, where they been a "one-year diversion" Associates eat one meal a week
society and then return
then perform social work, that has become a meaningful together that is simpler than "including spending over 70% to the real world.' career for Nanni, who is now what they normally have, "any­of their workweeks with the the director of La Casa de thing from rice to oatmeal to poor and marginalized," noted Amistad, an Hispanic communi­peanut butter and jelly sand­
Chris Nanni 
Hammes. ty center in the South Bend wiches," Dickson said. 
The five cities are Portland, area. "As we sit down at these Ore .. Berkeley, Ca., Phoenix, "If you would have told me meals, we are aware that so Ariz., Colorado Springs, Colo., plan, and comforted me as well five years ago when I graduat­many of the people we serve and Brockton, Mass. as my family, knowing that it ed what I am doing today, I have this as a full-course 
These cities were chosen be­was only to be a one-year could not have imagined it," meal," Dickson said. "We cause they are cities in which diversion," he said. said Nanni. remember those children who there is a high population of Originally from New York, Bonnie Jean Dickson, a eat catsup sandwiches to sur­Holy Cross priests and min­Nanni became a Holy Cross graduate of Saint Edward's vive, the single-parent families istries, said Hammes. Associate in Portland. He was University in Austin, TX., is a on the streets, or the families 
Once the Associates arrive in placed at an adolescent drug current Associate living in that eat off the floor." their assigned city (Hammes and alcohol treatment center Brockton, Mass. Applications for the Holy said the program tries to for those teens who could not Dickson chose the HCA pro­Cross Associates program are accommodate each Associate afford treatment. gram over other graduate ser­available at the Center for by placing her in the city of her Full of youthful optimism and vice programs for its living in Social Concerns and at the HCA choice), the Associate will move vigor, Nanni said he at first community and its spirituality. office in Moreau Seminary. The into a community with five or failed in his job because he "Community is essential to deadline for applications is six other Associates, an essen­thought that only his knowing the Holy Cross Associates," March 18. tial aspect of the HCA program, said Hammes. 
"Living in community is one 
of the pillars of which the (HCA) 
program is built," he said. 
"These are people who are 
committed to each other, in a 
sense married to each other for 
a year." 
The other three pillars of the 
HCA program are a Christian 
social service commitment, liv­
ing simply , as Associates do 
not make much money, and 
reflection on the other three 
pillars in light of the Associate's 
faith. 
According to Hammes, an ac­
cepted applicant and successful 
Associate is someone who "has 
demonstrated the desire to live 
out all four pillars of the pro­

Photo courtesy of Chris Nanni
gram for a year." 
Chrs Nanni, ND '88, (second from r) traveled to Portland, Oregon, with the Holy Cross Associates. 
'Tombstone' a star-studded western 
rial. camera moving. Holliday is the ultimate tragic
MOVIE REVIEW 
o 
After years of defending law The two huge surprises of hero and Kilmer's performance and order, Earp and his family "Tombstone" are Kurt Russell is nothing short of heroic. 
ByJIMDOWD 
return to Tombstone to relax and Val Kilmer. Russell gives a With all the richness and 
Film Critic 
and live a life of luxury. Their majestic performance as Earp. depth of the Earp and Holliday peace is soon interrupted by Somewhat restrained, he man­characters, it is a shame that
"Tombstone" is a classic 
the infamous red-cladden cow­ages to prove Earp's prowess as the film did not spare any inter­
Western which subscribes to 
boys who menace the local a lawman. Russell lends esting roles for villains. 
the most rigid conventions of 
town. warmth and charm to the char­The cowboys in "Tombstone" 
the genre. There have been 
After much hesitation, Earp, acter as he falls in love with are uninteresting and tend to
several Westerns produced 
who meets up with long-time Josephine, radiantly played by blend in with each other. They
over the past few years includ­
compatriot Holliday again takes Dana Delaney. all seemed the same, relentless­
ing the Oscar robber 
the law into his hands and sub­Doc Holliday is one of the ly launching tobacco into their
"Unforgiven," but none succeed 
dues the villains at the OK most intriguing characters ever spittoons. What "Tombstone"
quite like "Tombstone." 
Corral. to grace the silver screen. He is needs is a diabolical villain or
Director George Cosmatos 
Cosmatos, who directed a devoted, arrogant gunman an actor who actually intimi­
chooses not to be creative or "Rambo," paints a brilliant pic­who drinks constantly and is dates.
abstract in his filming and this 
ture of Western life in 1879. seduced by women. Val Kilmer The film is also very cliched
is precisely why "Tombstone" is 
The sets, costumes and dia­impresses beyond belief in this and sticks to the basic Western 
so impressive. He lets the story 
logue are convincing. There are challenging role. formula. With a story this
speak for itself. 
moments of awesome footage His Holliday staggers and enjoyable, why not let it be told 
The legendary story of Wyatt 
and modern movie magic slurs but still shoots perfectly simply? With all the Westerns
Earp (Kurt Russell), his broth­
including a gorgeous opening straight while twirling a shot opened or opening,
ers, and Doc Holliday (Val 
sunset image and wild gun­glass in his other hand. "Tombstone" may get left in the
Kilmer) is thoroughly engross­
fights. Cosmatos handles the Kilmer's range is fascinating. dust, but be sure to catch it on
ing and provides exciting mate-
gunfights well, keeping the Wrought with tuberculosis, video. 

page 12 The Observer •SPORTS Tuesday, January 18, 1994 
Familiar faces, new events, could mean record medal year 
... 
By FRED BAYLES 
Associated Press 
When it comes to U.S. medal hopes at the Lillehammer Olympics, it's a case where familiarity breeds contentment. 
Thanks to the unique two­year interval in Winter Games, all but three of the U.S. athletes who garnered 11 medals at the Albertville Games will be returning, many at the top of their form. 
And in addition to well-known names like Blair, Boitano and Kerrigan, a handful of top­ranked competitors and potent newcomers have a chance at fmishing on the medals stand. 
Despite the strange drama still unfolding within the women's figure skating team, past performances and present predictions point to a team poised to break the 12-medal mark first set in 1932 and tied in 1980. 
"It isn't wild speculation," said Mike Moran, spokesman for the U.S. Olympic Committee. "If we would repeat our suc­cess of 1992, our strength in events like the luge, bobsled and freestyle skiing would put us over the top." 
U.S. women led the way in 1992 with nine medals. All return this year with the excep­tion of gold medal figure skater Kristi Yamaguchi. Nelson Carmichael, bronze medalist in mogul skiing, has retired, and Paul Wylie, the 1992 silver medalist in figure skating, won't be at Lillehammer. 
But Wylie's spot will be amply filled by Brian Boitano, the 1988 gold medalist who left ice show stardom for another Olympic try. 
Veterans like Boitano proba­bly wouldn't have made it back if the Games were held in 1996. But the move to alternate Winter and Summer Games meant a brief two-year gap between Albertville and Lillehammer. 
Moran said the two-year cycle­benefits the U.S. team perhaps more than other countries. 
"Bonnie Blair and Dan Jansen are good examples," he said. "They are really at the peak of their careers. If we were wait­ing for 1996, they wouldn't be around." 
Blair hopes to add to the three golds and one bronze speed­skating medals won at Calgary and Albertville. Chances of tying or exceeding the record of four golds for a U.S. woman Olympian are good. Blair was the 1992-93 World Cup cham­pion in the 1,000-meter compe­tition. 
Dan Jansen never won an Olympic medal in speed skat­ing, but that's about all he hasn't won. The World Cup champion in the 500 meters since 1991 showed he is ready for Lillehammer by setting a world's record last month. He became the first skater to break the 36-second barrier, not once but twice at the Viking Ship Arena in Hamar, Norway-site of the Olympic competition. 
A medal or two would help erase the lingering image of Jansen sprawled on the ice in defeat after he fell in Calgary. It was a moment made more poignant by the death of his sis­ter in during those games. 
Skating coach Peter Mueller said Jansen is more relaxed this year, thanks in part to the year-old Pettit National Ice Center in Milwaukee, an indoor Olympic-sized training rink that allows U.S. skaters to train close to home. 
"He's got a whole different mindset," Mueller said. "In past Olympics people have had to train and compete in Europe for seven months. This year it was only two months. When people are gone from home for a long time, it's harder for them to keep focused on what you have to do." 
Short-track racing looks promising, too. Cathy Turner defends her 1992 gold medal and anchors a strong women's relay team, which took silver last time out. Eric Flaim, a 
1.988 silver medalist in the 1,500 meter long track, has switched to short track compe­tition in individual and team events. 
The U.S. team has other hopes on ice. 
Before this month's strange events, the U.S. figure skating squad seemed a good bet for medals. A poor showing at the World Championships had shrunk the squad from 16 at Albertville to 12 for Lillehammer. But Boitano would be there, so would Kerrigan and U.S. champion Tonya Harding. 
Now with the attack on Kerrigan at the U.S. Championships in Detroit, and the resulting charges that Harding's bodyguard was involved, could spin perfor­mances in many different direc­tions. 
There is cautious optimism for 
U.S. hockey. 
Head coach Tim Taylor of Yale did things differently this Olympic preseason. Instead of using NHL, college and European competitions as audi­tions for a stream of players, he kept essentially the same squad together, earning strong show­ings in exhibition games. 
There will be no last-minute raids of NHL players. Instead, he will field a team strong on offense, weaker on defense, with an average age of 22. 
The youth factor and the dis­appointing decision of center Derek Plante to stay with the Buffalo Sabres does not daunt Taylor, who ranks the U.S. team among the top five com­petitors. 
"We're young and we have to survive on youthful enthusi­asm," Taylor said. "We're going to have refreshingly excited kids." 
Beyond figure skating and hockey lie some potential sur­prises. 
The U.S. luge team is the strongest ever. Wendel Suckow's world championship last season made him the first 
U.S. slider to place in the top three. Olympic veteran Duncan Kennedy has medaled in every competition this year. Credit has been given to a new train­ing facility at Lake Placid, N.Y. 
Cammy Myler, fifth place fin­isher in the women's competi­tion at Albertville, will return. Despite shoulder surgery, she took her third straight U.S. title last year. 
Hopes are even high for the 
U.S. bobsled team, which has not seen a medal in 30 years. Led by Olympic veteran Brian Shimer, the four-man team won last season's World Cup overall four-man competition and a bronze in last year's world championships. Add to that a made-in-America sled designed by race car driver Geoff Bodine. 
There is less optimism about Alpine and Nordic events, given the usually strong European teams, particularly the Norwegians with their home­field advantage. 
But there are rays of hope. 
Diann Roffe-Steinrotter, women's giant slalom silver medalist in 1992, is returning following a strong 1992 season and a more mixed showing this year. Hilary Lindh, silver medalist in the 1992 women's downhill, is also on the team, returning after a knee injury last year. 
Look for good things from Julie Parisien and Picabo Street; each won silver medals at last year's World Championships, but have been struggling this year. 
There are similar hopes for men skiers AJ Kitt and Tommy Moe, following their strong showings in last year's World Cup competition. 
Expectations are high for the freestyle skiers. Donna Weinbrecht is back to defend her 1992 gold medal in the moguls following a year of excruciating rehabilitation from knee surgery. She has come back strong with gold medals at her first two World Cup events. 
Teammate Kriste Porter, a bronze medalist at last year's World Freestyle Ski Championships, hopes to become the first U.S. woman to take home a medal in the new aerials event. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cems per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  II  WANTED  $700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. deckhands. Alaska sumrner fish­eries now hiring. Employment  TICKETS  ATTENTION SAILORS Sail Away to 118 O'Shag on Thursday January 20 at 7 p.m. for  SOPHOMORES!!! JPW escape is Feb. 18-20 but tix go  
Alaska 1-206-323-2672  the planning meeting of the Spring  on sale starting Jan. 17. Sales are  
USED TEXTBOOKS  Minnesota Co-Ed summer camp  •••••••••• FOR SALE "'******"'"'*****  '94 season!!  from 3-5 on M & W and from 6-8 on  
Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard '  seeks qualified individuals to work  Helpl I need a ride to Cleveland,  SIX GARTH BROOKS TICKETS  ALL SAILORS PLEASE ATTEND  Tu and Th.  
233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun  as cabin counselors who can also  Ohio (or all the way to Erie, Pa. if  All tickets are together for the  
instruct in various activities.  you are going that far) the weekend  Sunday. February 13 show.  POP FARLEY WEEK 1994!1!1  Only $50 gets hotel, trans. and tick­ 
Interviewers will be on campus  of Jan. 28. Very friendly,$$ for gas,  Call 4-1337 with your best offer!!  et to Phantom or 2nd City.  
February 4th. To apply, contact:  tolls, etc. Call Brian x3043  **************************************  HEY, LOVECHILD -WELCOME TO  First-come first-served. Supplies  
AUDITIONS!!  AUDI- Camp Foley, 160 Windsor Court,  LAFORTUNE!  are limited.  
TIONS!!  New Brighton, MN 55112; 612-633­ 
12th NIGHT 12thNIGHT O'Shag Great Hall ;Jan 19 & 20;  4881.  FOR RENT  **************************************  SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­ 
7-9 pm; Questions? JOSH 232­ GOOD OPPORTUNITY FOR  TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  Welcome Back BARB  
7109  GRAD  NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  KELEHER,ERIN WIG, JASON  
STUDENT SPOUSE Professional  MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO.  NEED 2 TIX FOR GARTH  LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­ WILLIAMS,STAN FLIPSBERRY,  
ILOST & FOUND I  couple seeks mature, responsible person to care for newborn in our home about 40 hrs/wk. Must be  AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306  BROOKS ON SAT, FEB 12. CALL X4020.  8373 Spring Break Bahamas Party  JOHN CONNORTON, AMY WALK­ER. KRISTY SPREITZER. HENRI­ETTA DOBBLEGAINER. PERRY  
non-smoker, provide 3 references,  SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6  Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes  WINTERFESTER, KILLIAN RED,  
have own transportation. Position  BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3  **************************************  Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free  L.L.BEAN, and J. CREW. Wishing  
LOST: Grey metal double cross ear­ring between 2nd floor PW and  available end of March/beginning of April. Send personal info to:  BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306  PERSONAL  Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 1-800-678-6386  you the best for a happy semester, the happy group leaders.  
North Dining Hall on 1/14. Call  "Childcare Provider" c/o 6910 N.  
Bridget at 4-2965 if you found it.  Gumwood Rd, Unit 1 Box 14,  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica!  
Granger, IN 46530.  SECURITY SYSTEM  Fly out of Chicago and spend 8  
I lost a silver chin with a cross  ALL APPLIANCES  Thank you Garth Brooks for making  days on the beach! We have the  
walking from Roalfs to Alumni in the  WANTED:  1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS  my drearns come true ... see you  best trips & pricesl Includes air &  Watch for Eugene's Quest for the  
snow. If you find it I would really  SAILORS FOR THE SPRING '94  232 2595  soon backstage. love, Kevin Janicki  hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­ Golden Palace of the Himilayas  
appreciate it if you would call me.  SEASON TO ATTEND THE MEET­ 678-6386  Come see BRIGHTON BEACH  
Todd # 1251  lNG IN 118 O'SHAG ON THURS JAN 20 AT 7 p.rn.  FOR SALE  Lonely in London!  Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days  MEMOIRS @8PM Wash Hall Jan 20 21 22. Tickets $4 at  
oceanview room with kitchen $119!  Lafortune Box Office.  
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING-Earn up  IMMACULATE 3 BDRM CAPECOD  I know nobody will remember my  Walk to best bars! Includes free dis­ 
$$$$REWARD$$$$  to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or  4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  birthday. All cards graciously  count card -save $50 on cover  
For the return of my dark  Land-Tour companies. World travel.  BULLA RD.$64,500.272-6306  accepted. Meghan Kelley; 33  charges! 1-800-678-6386  
green long winter coat !  Summer & Full-Time employment  Leinster Gardens, Flat 5, London  
It disappeared from Club 23  available. No exp necessary. For  W2 3AN, England  Quality Copies, Quickly.  
last Friday. Please help me.  info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext.  SPECIALIZED ROCKHOPPER, 18',  Florida's New Spring Break  THE COPY SHOP  
I'm very cold!  C5584  SCOTT AT-4 HANDLEBARS,  hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key  LaFortune Student Center  
Call Kate x-1564  NEW SHIMANO OX HEADSET  West! More upscale than Panama  Phone 631-COPY  
No ?'s asked.  CAMP THUNDERBIRD  AND PEDALS, NEW SHIMANO  City/Daytona! Great beaches &  
Camp Counselors Needed  CARTRIDGE BOTTOM BRACKET  We build Excitement ...  nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa  We love you, Nina!  
Resident Surnmer Camp  AND HYPERGLIDE CHAIN,  PONTIACII!!III  Beachfront Resort $159! Key West  Jill, Molly, and Susan  
$$$$ REWARD $$$$  for Developmentally Disabled  399.99, CALL BILL 684-5911.  $249! 1-800-678-6386  
for the return of my long dark  Children & Adults.  Hey Dork  
green coat (Harry Levine Petite)  KENMORE FRIDGE 2.5 cubic ft.  SOPHOMORESIIII  HEY!!  
that disappeared from Club 23  June 18-Aug 26  Active warranty. 634-4902  K of C meeting tonight at 7:00pm  
last Friday. Please help; l'rn very  Orlando, FL area  Topic: $2500 donations to  Form turn-in for Sophomore Sibs  WANT TO GET INVOLVED IN  
cold.  1-407-889-8088  Women's and Mother's Care  Weekend is Jan. 31 in the Sorin  NO'S LARGEST STUDENT ORGA­ 
Call Kate x-1564  386/20 IBM Compatible with SVGA  Centers on Roe v. Wade anniver- Room from 3-6:30 p.m.  NIZATION?  
No ?'s asked!  PROMOTE our SPRINGBREAK  Color monitor, 24-Pin Color Printer,  sary  
packages with our posters and fly­ 2400 Baud Modem, 80 MB Hard  Don't miss out on the opportunity to  STUDENT UNION BOARD SEEKS  
ers, or SIGN UP NOW for spring- Drive, Dual Floppies, Math  share Notre Dame with your sib.  A STUDENT TO FILL THE POSI­ 
FOUND: YELLOW CASIO DIGITAL  break rooms. Daytona, Panama,  Coprocessor. Great Buy at $1100  Happy Belated Birthday, Nancyll  TION OF OFFICE MANAGER FOR  
WATCH IN LOT Cl ON  Padre, Cancun, etc. $129 up. Call  or best offer. Call 634-4732 for  You are finally the big 2-1 !I  All monies, forrns, etc. should be  THE SPRING SEMESTER  
1/17. CALL 287-5457 & IDENTIFY.  CMI 1-800-423-5264  details or leave message.  turned in at that time.  -CALL BETSY AT 1-7757  

Tuesday, January 18, 1994 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

You Are Invited to Attend 

"Winning in the Value-Conscious '90s" 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation 
on the Key to Creating and Leveraging 
Consumer Value 
Featuring 





Mike Milligan 
Senior Vice President 
Thursday, january 20 
5:30p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Reception  Meet P&G managers from:  
immediately following.  • Finance  
Food and beverages  • Sales  
will be served.  • Management Systems  
Dress is casual.  • Product Development  
Students from  • Product Supply  
all majors welcome.  • Brand Management  


___..._ -&Gamble 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, January 18, 1994 

~--~--~---~~­
Tuesday, January 18, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
Dorsett, Irish great Groom inducted into Hall 

Associated Press 
LARCHMONT, N.Y. 
Tony Dorsett, the Heisman Trophy winner from Pittsburgh whose 6,082 career rushing yards is the most in NCAA Division I-A, joined the College Football Hall of Fame on Monday along with 13 others. 
Vince Dooley, whose Georgia team won the national title in 1980, was one of two coaches and 12 All-American players to enter the hall. Induction is scheduled for Dec. 6. 
Others players chosen by the National Football Foundation were Bob Babich of Miami of Ohio, Steve Eisenhauer of Navy, Larry Elkins of Baylor, Pete Elliott of Michigan, Tucker Frederickson of Auburn, Jerry Groom of Notre Dame, John Hadl of Kansas, Gifford Nielsen of Brigham Young, Ozzie Newsome of Alabama, Marvin Powell of Southern Cal and Randy White of Maryland.The other coach was the late John Merritt of Jackson State and Tennessee State. 
In 1973, Dorsett became the first freshman in 29 years to be named to the All-America team. He is the only major college runner with three 1,500-yard seasons. 
Dorsett, who also is on the ballot this year for the Pro Football Hall of Fame after a brilliant career with the Dallas Cowboys, holds 18 NCAA records. He was an unanimous All-American as a senior in 1976, when Pittsburgh went 12-0 and won the national title. 
Dooley coached Georgia from 1964 to 1988, and at the time of his retirement ranked third nationally in victories. He was 201-77-10, leading his team to six Southeastern Conference titles and 20 bowl appear­anaces in 25 seasons, including his last nine. 
Dooley, now the athletic direc­
tor at Georgia, was SEC coach 
of the year seven times and 
national coach of the year in 
1980. 
Babich played linebacker at 
Miami(1966-68) before an NFL 
career with the San Diego 
HAPPY 

21ST BIRTHDAY 
Meghan Case Kelley 
Love, Mom, Dad and Brian 
Chargers and Cleveland Browns. 
Eisenhauer became a decorat­ed Vietnam combat pilot more than a decade after playing guard for Navy (1951-53). 
The only Michigan athlete to earn 12 varsity letters -he also played basketball and golf -Elliott was a two-way piayer for the Wolverines (1945-48). He quarterbacked the 1948 national championship team, went on to coach a Rose Bowl victory by Illinois over Washington in 1964 and cur­rently is executive director of the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
Groom was dubbed the "Iron 
Man of Modern times" during 
his career at Notre Dame 
(1947-50). A center-linebacker, 
Groom helped the Irish to a 32­
4-2 record before playing for 
five years with the NFL's 
Chicago Cardinals. 
Another versatile player who starred in college and the NFL, Hadl was an All-American as running back as a junior at Kansas. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
RecSports is offering cam­
pus racquetball doubles, in­
terhall team racquetball, cam­
pus co-ree volleyball and 
grad/fadstaff volleyball. Dead­
line is Thursday, Jan. 20th. 
Captains' meeting for both vol­
leyball leagues is at 5pm and 
team racquetball at 5:30 pm all 
in the JACC auditorium, Thurs­
day, Jan 20. 
The Sailing Club Meeting 
will have a meeting Thursday, 
O'Shag. All sailors please 
attend. Questions, please call 
Patrice at 284-5238. 
Late Night Olympics Raffie. 

Purchase raffle tickets from your LNO Hall representative or come by the RecSports office. There will be over 200 prizes given away. Tickets are 2 for $1 and all proceed go to benefit Special Olympics. 
Late Night Olympics VIIL 
Come be a part of the fun at this 8th annual all-night sports extravaganza. The fun begins at 8:00 pm on Friday, January 
21. All proceeds from this event go to benefit Special Olympics. A $1 donation is re­quested at the door. 
Slam Dunk Contest. Come by to Late Night Olympics on Friday, January 21 and take night on Friday, January 21. The cost of skate rentals is $1 and all rental fees will be do­nated to Special Olympics. For more info, call RecSports at 631-6100. 
Cross Country Ski Rental on Saturday, January 22 at 
2:00 pm at Notre Dame Golf Course. There is a $5.00 charge with equipment rental an additional $2. Wear layered clothes and warm gloves. Register at the RecSports in ad­vance. Deadline for signups is Wednesday, January 19. call RecSports at 631-6100. 
Climbing Wall at the Rockne Memorial. Orientation work­

-
-
---~----~-----------~--~-------. 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, January 18, 1994 
Earthquake causes $3.4 million in damages to 'Big X 
Associated Press starting early on the Martin The large "A" outside "We're tremendously Mighty Ducks. 
Luther King Jr. holiday, and the the park, a familiar symbol of fortunate, especially with our John Nicoletti, 
LOS ANGELES NBA said the game would be the stadium used by the Cali­motorsports events in Jan­spokesman for the arena, said: 
The earthquake that struck rescheduled. fornia Angels and Los Angeles uary," Colson said of the timing "We were able to weather it early Monday caused an esti­Other than Anaheim Stadium, Rams, appeared unharmed. of the early morning quake. very well. The building is built mated $3.4 million damage at there was no significant de­Bret Colson, an Ana­"There's a good chance there structurally sound. Everything Anaheim Stadium and prompt­struction immediat!=Jly reported heim city spokesman, estimated would have been people in the is fine." ed the postponement of the at major stadiums and arenas the damage at $3.4 million, seats if the earthquake would Although there was no Sacramento Kings-Los Angeles in the area. "which hurts, simply because have been Saturday." damage apparent at the Forum, Lakers NBA game. At Anaheim Stadium, about our deductible is 5 percent of There was a super­where the Lakers were to host 
The afternoon racing card at 50 miles from the epicenter of the value of the structure," he cross motorcycle event at the the Kings in an afternoon game, Santa Anita, however, went off the quake, the damage to the said, making the deductible stadium on Saturday. Colson the game was postponed as scheduled, attracting a billboards and the giant replay $6.25 million. said he didn't know if another because of the quake. crowd estimated at 17,500. screen was extensive. The stadium was built motor show would be held this Jane Goldstein, direc­
The quake occurred on a light Advertising billboards and the in 1966 at a cost of $24 million. weekend. tor of communications for sports day in Los Angeles, with large "A" structure leaned pre­The advertising billboards were About a mile from Santa Anita, said that the track, the Kings-Lakers afternoon cariously over the upper deck put up seven years ago as part Anaheim Stadium, the new with a rare Monday racing date game and racing at Santa Anita and debris and pieces of the of an $8 million improvement Anaheim Arena, completed last because of the holiday, said the the only major events sched­rotating billboards were scat­package when the Rams moved summer, apparently escaped track sustained "only superfi­uled. The basketball game was tered across the upper-deck to Anaheim from the Los without significant damage. cial, cosmetic-type damage, a 
seats. 
Angeles Coliseum. The arena is home to the NHL's little plaster down." 
Iowa still haunted by loss of Street 
By GREG SMITH 
Associated Press Writer 
IOWA CITY, Iowa It's a difficult time of year for 
the Iowa bas­ketball team, but not just because the Hawkeyes are off to an 0-3 start in the 

Big Ten. TOM DAVIS 
Coach Tom Davis said Monday the death of forward Chris Street last Jan. 19 is still on the minds of his staff and players. Street's locker, containing his gold uniform, a basketball and sneakers, is encased by glass. Some of the Hawkeyes also gather in a prayer group before games to remember their for­mer teammate, who was killed in a three-vehicle crash on Iowa City's northeast side. 
"We were blessed to have known him, played with him and coached him. We miss him very much and in many ways. We hope our words and actions honor him, and we'll always remember him," Davis said in a statement to open his news conference Monday. 
Davis and his coaching staff have chosen to wear a pin with 40 -Street's jersey number ­on it while players have their own pins or honor Street's memory by wearing a black patch on their uniforms. 
"As you can see, it's one of those things that's an ongoing struggle and you can imagine what the players who knew him ... what they're going through at this time of the year," Davis said. 
Iowa (6-6 overall) has opened the conference year with three straight losses, including an 89­75 decision to Indiana last Tuesday. It was the third game in eight days for the Hawkeyes, who were down to eight schol­arship players during that stretch. 
Davis said John Carter, who had been withheld from prac­tice and games after pleading innocent to a Jan. 1 assault charge of slapping a girl's face in a Burlington hotel, will join the team for Wednesday's game at Illinois. 
The Illini (9-3, 2-1) have beat­en Iowa six straight times at Assembly Hall. 
Davis has pinned his hopes on a perimeter game this season, but the Hawkeyes have strug­gled, hitting less than half their shots. Iowa has made 348 field goals in 791 attempts, or 44 percent. 
The Hawkeyes have hit 70 of 232 3-point attempts, or 30 percent. 
Davis remains optimistic, however, and says there are ways to improve. 
"We're not as good yet at ball movement and player move­ment and doing team things that get you better shots. I con­tinue to believe we've got really 


Wqc 1994 
~11-~mcrican ~££nan ~c&uc ~ s illuming!!! 
Ticket Distribution 
Notre Dame St. Mary's Thursday, Jan. 20 Friday, Jan. 21 No Lines Before Noon No Lines Before Spm Distribution: 1-3pm Distribution: 6-Bpm JRCC Gate 10 Haggar Stud. Center 1 I D Per Person 2 Tickets Per ID Tickets are, as always, FREE 



-------------~--------------­


Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal weighted Notre Dame's schedule to work against Digger Phelps, according to "The Coach's Wife." 
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Digger Phelps, Notre Dame's winningest coach, was driven from the University according to his wife Theresa. 
® 








LARGE PIZZA 


PLUS TAX 
STORE HOURS SUN-TH 4:30-1 am FRI-SAT 4:30-2am 

CHEESE PIZZA TOPPINGS $1 EACH­VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY EXPIRES 5-13-94 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE 
PRODUCT SERVICE GUARANTEE: 
IF FOR ANY REASON YOU ARE UNSATISFIED WITH OUR PRODUCT OR SERVICE, PLEASE CONTACT THE STORE MANAGER IMMEDIATELY ­AND WE'LL FIX IT. 
part of that system. 
Fencing 
continued from page 20 
dangerous," said DeCicco. 
Finally, the women's epee team dominated such teams as Temple(6-3), Air Force(7-2). and North Carolina(8-1) in their only their third competi­tive meet ever. Sophomore Danielle Girardi went 7-0 in her first meet of the year, while seniors Marit Fischer and Maura Gallagher provided the needed experience to secure the victory for the Irish. / 
Get ready to send your sweetie a Valentine in 
The Observer. 
BEETHOVEN"$ 2NDfPG)1:00. 3:00.5:15. 7:15.9:15 GRUMPY OLD MEN(PG13) 1:15.4:15. 6:45.9:00 IRON WlUfPG) 1215. 2:30. 500. 7·30. 9;45 PHILADELPHIA(PG13) 1:3C. 445.7:15. 9:45 THE PEUCAN BRIEF(PG13) 12:30. 4:00. 7:00. 10:00 TOMBSTDNEjR) 2:45. 5·15. 7:45. 10:15 
MRS. DOUITAREjPG13) 4:15.7:15.9:45 THE AIR UP THERE lPG) 430. 7CC. 9·30 WAYNE'S WORLD II (PG 13) 5:CC.7:30. 10:00 
---~ ----~ 

Belles travel to Chicago to face Maroons 
By KIMBERLY BERO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will strive to keep their winning streak alive as they trek to the University of Chicago tonight to take on the Maroons. 
After an action-packed victo­ry over Beloit on Saturday, and several close yet disappointing losses, the Belles are anxious to prove their winning abilities, said head coach Marvin Wood. 
"We've gained a lot of confi­dence from Saturday's win," added sophomore forward­guard Lori Gaddis. 
The Belles defeated the University of Chicago last year in a heart-stopping game that ended in overtime. 
However, because the University of Chicago has recently employed a new head coach, the Belles know very lit­tle about the Maroons' game tactics. "It's hard to say how this game will go, but I know it will be close and tough. 

Hopefully we will be victorious like last year," Gaddis said. 
"They have a lot of the same players, but otherwise I know very little about the Maroons' techniques," said Wood. 
The Belles practiced last night in the JACC to prepare for this pivotal game. 
"We're working on becoming a better passing team, and improving our timing," said Wood. 
"Our man-to-man offense and aggressiveness have been major points in our practices," added Gaddis. 
Sophomore forward Jennie Taubenheim, senior forward­guard Ann Mulcahy, and fresh­man guard Sarah Kopperud are stalwart players with promis­ing abilities, both Gaddis and Wood agree. 
"Jennie Taubenheim had a 
great game Saturday and is 
very consistant," said Wood. 

"Ann Mulcahy is an incredible three point shooter: We can depend on her in a crunch. 
Sarah Koppurud is our leading scorer, she really takes con­trol," Gaddis said. 
Despite the Belles' 2-8 record, the team has made phe­nomenal improvements, said Wood. 
"We work together more, and our shooting is consistently above 
forty percent each game," added Gaddis. ­
Both Gaddis and Wood agree that the team chemistry has improved dramatically. 
"We were a young team of strangers, but now we've bond­ed into a family of players working like a team," said Wood. 
"We're finally in sync, and not just looking to a key player to win the game," said Gaddis. 
Overall, the entire team is 
contributing to the team's suc­
cess, said Wood. 
"The girls are a fun team to work with, and it should be a good, close game," concluded Wood. 

Miami coordinator headed to Texas A&M 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
University of Miami defensive coordinator Tommy Tuberville on Monday took the same job at Texas A&M. 
Tuberville, 39, replaces Bob Davie, who left Texas A&M last week to become defensive co­ordinator at Notre Dame. 
The Aggies lost to Notre Dame 24-21 in the Cotton Bowl and dropped from No. 7 to No. 9 in the fmal poll. Miami lost to Ari­zona 29-0 in the Fiesta Bowl 

and dropped from No. 10 to No. 15. 
In eight seasons under coaches Jimmy Johnson and Dennis Erickson at Miami, Tuberville was part of three national championships. 
He worked mainly with the Hurricanes' defensive line and linebackers, but was promoted to defensive coordinator before the 1993 season. Miami ranked third nationally in scoring de­fense last season, allowing 12.5 points per game. 
"Tommy is an outstanding 
defensive coach and he has de­veloped great defenses at Mi­ami and knows what it takes to win national championships," Texas A&M coach R.C. Slocum said. 
Tuberville said he plans to continue the Aggies' aggressive style of defense. 
"The ... philosophy is exactly what I've always felt comfort­able with," he said. "I love to force the action on the defen­sive side of the ball instead of reacting to what the offense throws at us." 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Sophomore forward Jennie Taubenheim attempts a shot in a game earlier this season. 



The Observer 
News'Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 

Copy Editor 
Applicants should submit a resume and 1-2 page per­sonal statement by 5 p.m., Thursday, January 20. Contact Meredith McCullough at 631-5323 for more information. Also, The Observer is currently seeking enthusiastic writers for the Business Section. Please call Mike Martin at 234-1228 if interested. 


TTE 
N H 

"Luxury Living You Can EnJ·oy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS. 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 




232-8256 
..__ 

· :a·1 m£' .·:b:: .;.· Tuesday, January 18, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

DAVE KELLETT 
ONE SummER. 1»'1 IN 1914 
oil. Sl'lt·m"·"'o~'S ... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Turner of 48 Samantha's Hollywood "Bewitched"
1 Colorful salad husband31 "Duke
ingredient 
so Facetious advice 10 Plant pest in a mystery 
Bluebeard's 

Castle" 15 Throw some composer 54 Indoor design light on ssCarouse
32 Super-soaked

1&EI­56 Birthplace of 
33 Literature as art

(Spanish 16-Across 
36 Urger's words 

painter) 57 By and large 37 Aloha State 
17 Acting ambassador 380oze 
DOWN
19 Mooring rope 39 Bombast 20 The sky, maybe 40 70's sitcom 1 "... for--for 21 Perry's creator "---Sharkey" poorer" 
2 Founder of est 
22 Pop's early or 43 Watered-down Paul 
ideas 3 Talks Dixie-style 
b...--+---+~f----25II's a drag 44 Subsequently 4 Diagram a 
sentence27 Country rtes. 45 Teri of "Tootsie" 5 Competitive 28 It has its ups 46"­advantageand downs Andronicus" 
& Boat's departure site 7 Rocket's 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE departure site 8 It's after zeta 9 Foul caller 

-
-=+=+'4=+'=-l 10 One more time 11 Schoolmarmish 12 Birthright 
31 Radar screen 41 Kind of scream 50 Fed. medical 13 Bar accessory image 42 Obstinate detectives 14 --Passes 32 Rouse to action 44 Pelf 51 Sunny-side-up j,j..:-:~i-=44-:-1 18 Go with the--33 Brief break 45 Miss Garbo item 22 Layup alternative 47Jog 52 Lawyer Baird 
341t's worth 

23 Quarantine looking into 48 Hamlet, for one 53 Cambodia's 24 Be militaristic 49 Nowhere near -Nol
35 Clavell's

26 Manner 
"--Pan" 

28 It can sting 36 Recipe abbr.
~-4-"-+::-t 29 Before, in 
39 Mess-hall meal Get answers to any three clues palindromes 
Clint by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Eastwood's city 5656 (75¢ each minute).
Singer 

CLIFF ERICKSON
~ 
0 
~ PERFORMING
C./:) li 
r r 1 

~ \)~
z 
~ ATYcLUB ¥;:NO
0 
r r 1 
-·
z <P ~ 
;s ONLYONE ONLY ONE~ ~10 








SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, January 18, 1994 
The Observer/Jake Peters The Notre Dame fencing teams, shown competing here earlier in the year, fared well over the weekend in the Northwestern Open. 
Phelps' wife criticizes Notre Dame 
Rosenthal accused of pushing;D~i;g~g~er~o~u~t::.__~--:--:=~;;:~­
ByJOHN LuCAs 
Associate News Editor 
Hidden in "The Coach's Wife," Theresa Godwin Phelps' memoirs of twenty-plus years as wife of a Notre Dame basketball coach, is the frank accusation that her husband Digger was all but forced to leave South Bend because of the pres­sures placed upon him by Athletic Di­rector Dick Rosenthal and the rest of the administration. 
In her opinion, the University wanted Digger Phelps to leave so badly that they made it impossible for him to succeed. By taking control of recruiting, arranging a difficult schedule and leaving doubts about his status after twenty years of ser­vice, the University made it obvious that a change was desired. 
Instead of waiting to be fired after a final season, Phelps found the fun had been taken out of coaching and decided to resign after the 1991 campaigQ. 
"Dick (Digger) felt he had no OP,tions left coaching Notre Dame basketball," Theresa Phelps writes. "His hands were more than tied, they were, essentially, cut off." 
The Athletic Department had not seen the book and had no official comment according to Assistant Athletic Director Missy Conboy. 
Theresa Phelps was also unavailable for comment. 
While Digger's record of nearly 400 wins was remarkable, Theresa Phelps contends that his 100 percent graduation rate was an even greater victory -an accomplishment that Notre Dame should have rewarded with accolades rather 
see PHELPS I page 17 
Hall of Fame 
Saint Mary's Former Georgia coach 
The Belles look for a win 
Vince Dooley and a host in a road matchup with 
of others are inducted the Marroons of the 
into the College Football University of Chicago. 
Hall of Fame see page 18 
,fr.t oarru~ ~/lerrtoir 
Digger:"Father Malloy said, that even if I won the nation­al title next year, I was finished coaching here." 
Theresa: "Did he say why?" 
Digger: "Only that they want a change. I haven't done any­thing wrong; there are no negatives. Just that Notre Dame basketball had to be better in the 1990s." 
Theresa: "Better than what?" 
Digger:"He didn't say." 


Fencing teams fare well in Northwestern Open 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 

• 
Last weekend the Notre Dame men's and women's fenc­ing teams were determined to do two things at the Northwestern Open. First, they wanted to win the meet, but secondly get a better idea of what their starting lineup would be for the better part of the season. 
Following the open Notre Dame coach Mike DeCicco felt the Irish had gone two for two. 
"We fenced real well this weekend and I was pleasantly surprised with some of the re­sults," said DeCicco. "In addi­tion I feel that our starting line­up is beginning to come to­gether,'' he added. 
The men's team continued their torrid pace as they re­mained unbeaten by defeating CSU-Long Beach 18-9 and UC San Diego 19-8 even without freshman Jeremy Siek who was in San Francisco trying to earn a spot on the Junior World Championship team. .Juniors Stan Brunner and Conor Power led the foil team to wins of 7-2 and 6-3. Brunner improved to 15-2 on the season, while Power went to 14-3 
"Stan and Conor will be able 
Inside SPORTS 

Daws earns All-American honors 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant S om Editor 

The awards keep on pouring in for freshman midfielder­
Cindy Daws. young

of the national­
revered Dame 
's soc­
team 
ecently arned first-
All-
America honors after leading the Irish to their first NCAA 
tournament berth with a team­record 52 points on 16 goals 
squad. Daws is Notre Dame's first 
women's soccer player to be named to the first All-American 
team. Daws was also recently 
named Freshman Player-of· 
the-Year by Soccer Weekly 
magazine. 

"I'm pretty excited for her," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "It's an honor for her, and I'm not surprised at all." 
"In my 12 years, she's the most exciting player I've ever played with," said Irish tri-cap­tain Alison Lester. "It couldn't happen to a nicer person." 
to provide a powerful 1-2 punch to our foil team this sea­son," said DeCicco. 
Senior Chris Hajnik led the way in the sabre competition, improving to 14-3 on the sea­son as the team won by scores of 6-3 against San Diego and 7­2 against Long Beach. Fresh­man Bill Lester also made valu­able contributions to the sabre team before also heading off to San Francisco. 
In men's epee senior Greg Wozniak kept the epee team perfect as he too stayed un­beaten with a mark of 16-0. 
"Greg is the leader of our epeeists this year and it's up to him to drive his teammates to­ward what they can be capable of," commented DeCicco. 
Picking up where the men left off, the women's foil team rout­ed CSU-Long Beach(16-0), James Madison(l0-6), and UC­San Diego(14-2) even without their complete team there. With sophomores Claudette DeBruin and Mindy Kalogera fencing in San Francisco at the Junior World Championships, seniors Kim Arndt and Corinne Dougherty stepped up to go 10­0 on the weekend. 
"Once we get the whole wom­en's foil team together we'll be see FENCING I page 17 
College Football Tommy Tuberville leav!l' Miami to become defen­sive coordinator at Texaf> A&M 

see page 18 








