

Wednesday, April20, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 127 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Brooks heads list of Saint Mary's honorees 
Special to The Observer 
The first details of Saint Mary's College's 1994 sesqui­centennial commencement have been released with the announcement of eleven recipi­ents of honorary degrees. The dignitaries were chosen for the ways in which they personify the ideals which are at the heart of Saint Mary's mission. A sesquicentennial subcommit­tee on honorary degrees, com­posed of faculty, students and staff, spent over a year review­ing nominations from through­out the College community and making their final recommen­dations to the Board of Regents. 
An honorary doctorate of let­ters will be bestowed upon Gwendolyn Brooks, the Pulitzer Prize-Winning Poet Laureate of Illinois. Brooks is considered one of the most influential poets of the twentieth century and has written more than 20 anthologies and books. She is a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters and has been honored with The Shelley Memorial Award by the Poetry Society of America. The Gwendolyn Brooks Distin­guished Chair in Black Culture and Literature has been estab­lished at Chicago State Univer­sity where Brooks serves as writer-in-residence. 
Elizabeth Johnson, an associ­ate professor of theology at Fordham University, will be honored for her contributions to the intellectual-life of the American Catholic Church and other Christian communities. Johnson is known for her re­fusal to abandon tradition in her attempt to connect feminist and classical theology. She is the author of "She Who ls:The Mystery of God in Feminist Theological Discourse." Johnson was the 1993 Madel­eva Lecturer at Saint Mary's College. 
Ardis Krainik, the General Di­rector of The Lyric Opera of Chicago, will be honored with a doctorate of fine arts. Krainik has been the general manager and director of the Lyric Opera since 1981. Krainik is well re­spected both for her expert fis­cal management of the opera as well as for her influence on the company's repertory, which includes a balance of standard, innovative and contemporary works. 
Johnnetta Cole, president of Spelman College, will be awarded a doctorate of letters for her contributions to the ed­ucation of women. Cole, the seventh president of Spelman, the oldest and the leading lib­eral arts college for African­American women, is widely re­garded as the nation's leading spokesperson on women's edu­cation. 
Former director of the American Council on Educa­tion's Office of Minorities in Higher Education Blandena Cardenas Ramirez will be rec­ognized with an honorary doc­torate of laws. Throughout her career Ramirez has exhibited leadership in the effort to achieve equal access to educa­tion. Ramirez was the first His­panic to serve on the U. S. Commission on Civil Rights. 
Archbishop Rembert 
see DEGREES/ page 4 


Catholic Character examined 
By SARAH DORAN News Editor 
In an effort to uncover stu­dent experience 'with Notre Dame's Catholic Character, a student government committee has recently distributed stu­dent surveys that will play an integral role in its final report to the University's Board of Trustees. 
"[The surveys] are designed to gather impressions of stu­dent Catholic experience with Catholic Character," said Catherine Miller, committee chairwoman. "We're not look­ing for one big answer, just for different student experiences with it." 
The report, entitled "Renewing the Mission: A Stu­dent Perspective of Notre Dame's Catholic Character," is the result of a one-year study that will be presented to the Board at their May 5th meet­ing. 
It is the first time that a stu­dent government committee has examined this subject. 
Within its focus on the re­sponsibility of the Notre Dame community to respond to the Catholic mission of the Univer­sity, the report will also include a separate section on the issues facing non-Catholics at the Uni­versity. 
In addition to gathering the student input, the 15 member committee has spoken to facul­ty members and administrators during the past year. 
see CHARACTER/ page 4 

Just like any other university-run department? 
Editor's Note: This story is the first ofa two part series ext~mining the operations and policies of The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI 
News Writer 
At the beginning of every semester, Notre Dame students take part in a ritual as common to this campus as tail-gating and DARTing. 
Undergraduates from every nook and cranny of the Univer­sity trek to the bookstore, stand in long lines, get out their pen and checkbook, and vent their rage over the receipts. 
Akin to this phenomenon is the disbelief professed at the rumored sums said to be changing hands on football Sat­urdays at the bookstore's check-out lines. 
What about the rumors, then, commonly heard in dorms and the dining halls? 
Does the bookstore over­charge? 
Is it privately owned? 
Where does all the money go? Larry Ratliff, the director of the bookstore, and Jim Lyphout, Associate Vice-presi­dent of Business Affairs for the University, recently talked to The Observer about these ques­tions and other concerns sur­
rounding the bookstore. 
Ratliff was surprised at some of the rumors circulating around campus. 
"The bookstore is owned and operated by the University of Notre Dame," Ratliff said. "It falls under the Vice-President of Business Affairs' office, same as food services, same as [St. Michael's] laundry, [and] same as the Morris Inn." 
"It's run like any other Uni­versity department," said Lyphout. "Any revenue exceed­ing expenses goes to the Uni­versity's general revenue. It's not a stand-alone entity. All the employees are University employees." 
Like every other University department, the bookstore de­scribes its function and purpose in an official mission statement. According to the statement, "The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore is operated on sound business principles in the antic­ipation that its income will cover both its operating ex­penses and its attributable capital development costs, as well as contribute to the gener­al budget requirements of the University." 
Lyphout shed light on the statement's terminology. He said attributable capital devel­opment costs are funds used to cover major equipment, such as shelving and computers. Currently the bookstore is up­grading its data processing ca­pacities. 


While the bookstore is ex­pected to contribute to the Uni­versity, it does not operate un­der a strict budgetary plan, said Lyphout. No one suffers reper­cussions if the budget goes awry. 
All income from the bookstore contributes to the University's unrestricted funds. "That, in effect, limits the cost of tuition," Lyphout said. 
"We don't have a policy or mandate as to what the book­store contributes to the general budget," said Lyphout. "Some years are better than others. We'll fluctuate from year to year. We have enough flexibil­ity in our budget to allow for fluctuations." 
The bookstore operates like any for-profit company or busi­ness, said Ratliff. And, he added, netting a profit is not always guaranteed. 
"There's no guarantee that any corporation is going to make a profit," he said. "There's no guarantee that they're going to take a loss, ei­ther." 
Neither Lyphout or Ratliff were obliged to disclose how much the bookstore takes in annually or on football Satur­days. Though the bookstore is run as a profit-making busi­ness, the University is a tax-ex­empt, not-for-profit institution, and thus not compelled to make public its finances. Since the bookstore falls under the aus­pices of'the University, it is not compelled by law to report its earnings. The University's ac­counting office processes all of the bookstore's bills. 
"We treat that as confidential information," Lyphout said. When asked whether the with­holding of the bookstore's fi­nances is necessary to the Uni­versity's best interests, Lyphout responded, "We think so." 
With all the student griping on campus, one might assume that formal complaints would be common. Ratliff said that the bookstore does receive complaints, but did not elabo­rate on their nature or number. In fact, Ratliff sees complaints as positive. 
''I'd say we're very blessed from the stand-point that we have a consumer who knows what they're doing," said Ratliff. "Not every retailer has that benefit. I would probably say that number of complaints is off-set by the number of com­plements." 
Ratliff said all complaints are promptly answered and most are worked out. "Usually the one who calls is explained to," he said. "We try to help them understand why a certain pro­cedural policy is in practice. Most times there is a complaint, there is a misunderstanding." 
Both Ratliff and Lyphout said the number one problem facing the bookstore right now is space. 
"My predecessor asked for more space, and I asked for more space," said Ratliff. "Talk to most campus bookstores and they'll say the same thing." 
"Retail is very highly con­sumer-responsive." he added. "If you're really doing your job, you always need more space." 
The area which needs most space is books. A recent report by The Colloquy for the Year 2000 stated, "a working com­mittee submitted a ... report on an academic bookstore which is presently being carried 
see BOOKSTORE I page 4 




INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Tom Lillig Marketing Director 
• o 1 \I o 1 0 I o I I 1 1 1 I I • I o t t 1 • IiI I 0 (I I I I I o • I • • I 0 I I I 1 I I I I I I I I I I o I 0 I I I I I I I I 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 20, 1994 
Israeli police arrest 400, but peace talks with PLO continue 
JERUSALEM prisoners of all factions. About 3,500 Hamas 
Secret service agents and soldiers arrest­activists are among the 10,500 inmates ed more than 400 Arabs and seized auto­Palestinians say are held by Israel. matic weapons in a predawn sweep Palestine Liberation Organization officials Tuesday against an Islamic fundamentalist said the sweep was unlikely to force a suspen­group that terrified the nation with suicide sion in Israel-PLO talks but would undercut bomb attacks on commuter buses. support for the peace process, and added that 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, who the arrests set back PLO efforts to persuade ordered the crackdown, hinted there could Islamic activists to participate in self-rule elec­be further moves if the attacks persisted, tions and the process of reconstruction. and officials said Hamas political leaders The focus of the raids, carried out in a could be targeted next. dozen fundamentalist strongholds in the Gaza 
Rabin balanced his crackdown with ges­Strip and West Bank, were young activists and tures to Vasser Arafat's PLO. He confirmed a few key preachers of Barnas and the smaller Israel'would allow the return of 20,000 to Islamic Jihad faction. Hamas sources some 30,000 Palestinians, most relatives of the key leaders had fled earlier to Egypt. PLO police force, once agreement with the "The aim was to strike a severe blow at the PLO was reached. operational structure of Hamas to disrupt 
PLO officials said the roundup of Islamic their operations," said Col. Renaan Gissin, an activists, the largest since Israel deported army spokesman, adding Israel was sending a nearly 400 Palestinians to Lebanon in "clear message to Hamas that we will not let December 1992, was particularly ill-timed because it go of them and won't tolerate such activities." came while PLO negotiators were seeking the release of 

Nixon moved back into intensive care 
NEW YORK 
Former President Nixon took a turn for the worse and was returned to intensive care Tuesday, a day after a stroke left him paralyzed on most of his right side and unable to speak, his doc­tor said. Nixon was suffering from swelling of the brain as a result of the stroke, said Dr. Fred Plum, chief of neu­rology at New York Hospital. For the 

first time since the former president was stricken on Monday night, his attack was described as a "major" stroke. "The next one to three days is a critical period .... One has to say his prognosis is guarded," Plum said. Earlier in the day Nixon, 81, had been moved into a pri­vate room. Doctors said earlier in the day that Nixon was paralyzed on the right side except for his right foot. Strokes-damage to part of the brain caused by insuffi­cient blood supply -are the nation's third leading cause of death. They strike about 500,000 people annually, killing one-third. Nixon's daughters, Tricia Cox and Julie Eisenhower, went to his bedside Monday night, and again Tuesday. Dozens of calls of concern poured in from polit­ical figures, long-time friends, and ordinary people, some of whom had survived strokes and wanted to pass along encouragement, another aide, Elizabeth Johnston, said. 
Arsenio Hall quits late-night television 
LOS ANGELES 
The for sale sign went up on the set of "The Arsenio Hall Show" Tuesday -literally. Comedian George Wallace ended the show's final performance by yelling "Everything is for sale!" as he plastered red and white "For Sale" signs on the furniture, set, camera and mem­bers of the band and the audience. Although the number of viewers watching "The Arsenio Hall Show" dwindled in the past year, the 2 million people he attracts could give a healthy ratings boost to the two late-night talk show hosts left standing -David Letterman and Jay Leno. The half-hour syndicated comedy h~.s been sold in more than 100 markets, including many where it would have vied with "Arsenio Hall." Meanwhile, admirers said Hall-the first successful black late-night talk how host -leaves a worthy record. "Obviously, the black commu­nity wasn't as well-served in the late-night forum until he came along, and kids weren't either until he gave new acts a chance," Comedian Dennis Miller said. 


Rodney King gets $3.8 million from LA 
LOS ANGELES 

The jury in Rodney King's civil lawsuit awarded him $3.8 million in compensatory damages from the city of Los Angeles on Tuesday for his 1991 police beating.The award was significantly below the $15 million sought by King's lawyers but well above the $800,000 the city said was a fair sum. Compensatory damages are intended to pay for King's losses, including income and medical expenses. Only the city was liable for compensatory dam­ages. A second phase of the trial, to begin immediately, will determine punitive damages. There will be 14 defen­dants in the second phase, including the officers who beat King as well as officers who stood by at the scene. Though the city admitted liability as the trial began, its lawyers sought to minimize King's injuries. Much of the three-week compensatory damage trial was a battle of medical experts who disagreed on questions of perma­nent disability and brain damage. In the years since he was first glimpsed by TV viewers on a grainy videotape, King, 29, had told the story of his beating only in bits and pieces. At the civil trial, he gave his most graphic account. The city, however, focused on King's character before the beating, eliciting testimony about his use of alcohol and drugs, his time behind bars for robbery and his involvement with a transvestite prostitute. 
Mother convicted of contract killing 
BROWNSVILLE, Texas 

The wife of a prominent surgeon was sentenced to life in prison for paying two Mexican hit men $3,000 to kill the teen-ager who spurned her love-struck daughter. Dora Garcia Cisneros, 56, must serve at least 30 years before she is eligible for parole, under terms of Monday's sentence. Daniel Garza, who admitted passing $3,000 from Mrs. Cisneros to the hit men, received the same sen­tence. Prosecutors said Mrs. Cisneros, wife of a Brownsville surgeon, became so upset about Joey Fischer's breakup with her daughter that she plotted for months to find someone to kill him. A 73-year-old for­tuneteller, Maria Mercedes Martinez, testified that she delivered the money to Garza from Mrs. Cisneros. Garza, 43, said he gave the money to the hit men but thought they would only deliver a beating. Fischer, 18, was shot to death. Mrs. Martinez was sentenced to 20 years in prison. Officials say the suspected killers, both Mexican citizens, are unlikely to be handed over to the United States for trial. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 20. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

---~~---­

By MYRNA MALONEY policy for the trial basis of the News Writer 1993-94 school year under the 
condition that the issue would 

The policy of leaving identifi­be re-evaluated this spring, ac­cation at the front desk of each cording to Patty Warfield, Resi­residence hall upon entering dence Hall Director in Holy with a male guest may be rein­Cross Hall. stated next fall, according to "For one year, it was agreed discussion at Monday night's that leaving ID's would be sus­Residence Hall Association pended as long as it would be (RHA) meeting. handled well by the students, 
The Senior Officers of Saint but I don't know that the stu­Mary's College, by request from dent population has handled it RHA. agreed last spring to in the best way they could," withdraw the original visitation said Colleen McKenna, 
Attention Students! 
We will wrap, pack, and ship your items! 
Michiana Pack and Ship 
715 West McKinley Mishawaka (East of Video Watch) 254-9260 
Authorized UPS Shipping Agency 

Residence Hall Director in Le Mans Hall. 
"Instead of leaving ID's when we had dances in Le Mans this year, there were sign-in sheets on which a student had to write in the name of her date in addi­tion to her room and phone numbers. These sheets were not taken seriously, and stu­dents often wrote fake names or numbers," said McKenna. 
There is growing concern not only about males staying overnight in the residence halls, but also for the overall security of the halls and the safety of their students, according to Sherri Crahen, Director of Res­idence Life and Housing at Saint Mary's. 
"The new recommendation is for a form of identification to be left at the front desks of each residence hall, with the excep­tion of Augusta Hall, from Fri­days through Sundays. 
"We are coming to RHA first because we wanted student feedback before we make a statement to the Senior Officers who will make the final deci­sion on this matter," said Crahen. 
In a survey conducted last spring, 90% of Saint Mary's stu­dents did not want a 24-hour visitation policy, according to Crahen. A new survey will be distributed Thursday, April 21, as students vote in the Hall Council elections in order to both raise student awareness of the issue and to find out if stu­dents are concerned about the reimplementation of this policy, said Jen Cherubini, RHA presi­dent-elect. 
"They're not treating us like adults. In every other aspect of college life, they expect us to be adults, yet in this area they are treating us like children," said sophomore Clare Heekin when asked her opinion on the mat­ter. 
"I think it's important to keep track of what male guests are in the halls because of the pos­sible danger involved," said Isabel Wagner, vice president ofRHA. 
"I think that the true issue here is deciding how much re­sponsibility we can build into the system, and what students are going to do with that re­sponsibility," said McKenna. 
'Tm all for the argument that (students) shouldn't have to be babysat, but on weekends peo­ple are ruining it for others," said Warfield. 
THE SAINT MARY'S COllEGE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICAllOO, DANCE &THEATRE PRESENTS 
UGHTIOO DESIGN BY SHAUN LWELLEN 
ADDITIONAL CHOREOORAPHY BY FACULTY AND STUDENTS 
FRIDAY-SA1URDAY, APRIL 22-23, 8P.M. ·SUNDAY, APRIL 24, 2:30P.M 
OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $6 ADULTS· $4 SENIOR CITIZENS· $3 CAMPUS COMMUNITIES· S2 STUDENTS 00 SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE, LOCATED IN O'LAUGHUN, 9-5 Mal.·FRI. OOCOVER, VISA, MASTERCARD OODERS AT 219tl84--ti26. 


-~------·--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
I I I It I I If ! I I I 

page4 Wednesday, April 20, 1994
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
the same structure [in the fu­Preliminary results of the ture]."
Degrees Character Bookstore
survey findings should be Despite the space limitations, continued from page 1 continued from page 1 availible this weekend, said Ratliff remains upbeat about
continued from page 1
Miller, and they are expected to the bookstore's place on cam­
Store Your Stuff ! 
Weakland, the archbishop of Milwaukee, will be the homilist for the baccalaureate mass and will also receive an honorary doctorate of humanities. Archbishop Weakland chaired the committee that composed the American Bishops' Letter on the Economy. In his min­istry, Weakland has conveyed sensitivity to the concerns of women and support for the expansion of their involvement in the Church. 
Two Holy Cross leaders will also receive honorary degrees at this commencement. They are Sister Catherine O'Brien, president of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and Father Claude Grou, Supe­rior General of the Congrega­tion of the Holy Cross. 
Sister Catherine O'Brien has been the president of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross since 1989. Sister Catherine led the discus­sions between the College and the Congregation which result­ed in the recent signing of the historic agreement on corpo­rate reorganization. She was previously the regional superi­or for the apostolate in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East from 1984-1989. 
Sister Catherine earned a bachelor of arts degree in clas­sical studies from Saint Mary's College, a master's degree in education at the University of Notre Dame, and an honorary doctorate of laws degree from the University of Notre Dame. In honoring Sister Catherine, the College also honors the Congregation of the Holy Cross, the founders and sponsors of the College. 
Father Grou was born in Montreal and later earned his bachelor's degree from Mon­treal University. He was elect­ed superior general of the con­gregation in 1986 and re-elect­ed in July 1992. Father Grou is being honored both for his con­tribution to the congregation and for the congregation's long-time relationship with Saint Mary's College. 
Bruno Schlesinger, professor of humanistic studies, will be awarded an honorary doctor­ate of humanities. Schlesinger, who has taught at Saint Mary's for almost 50 years. founded the Christian Culture Program (now known as the Humanistic Studies Program) in 1956. Us­ing the work of Christopher Dawson as its foundation, the program has brought national recognition to Saint Mary's. 
Mary Louise Gorno, class of 1972, will be honored this year with a doctorate of humanities for her contributions to Saint Mary's College. Gorno, a vice president at Leo Burnett Ad­vertising Agency. one of the world's largest advertising agencies, is currently the vice chair of Saint Mary's College's Board of Regents and has served on the Board since 1987. This degree specifically recognizes her integral in­volvement in the life of College as a leader, speaker and men­tor. 
An honorary doctorate of 
laws will be bestowed upon 
Jerry Hammes, a prominent 
South Bend community busi­
nessman and civic leader. 
Hammes is a former vice chair 
of the Board of Regent. 
Hammes, who is chairman of 
the board of Romy Hammes, 
Inc., was the 1983 recipient of 
Saint Mary's President's Medal, 
Notre Dame's Man of the Year 
in 1976, and the winner of the 
1988 Helping Hands Award, 
given by Hospice of St. Joseph 
County. 
They have also examined the University's mission statement and the way that Catholic expe­rience is described in other documents. 
"The committee is trying to paint a picture of what student experience is," said Miller. 
Prior to distributing the sur­veys, student input was first gathered in forums held in the majority of the dorms. 
Although attendance at most of the forums was low-there were usually about 15 to 20 students at each one-Miller said that they "brought up a lot of issues and raised some ques­tions on a personal level prior to the impersonal level of the surveys." 
serve as a good indication of student position on the issue. Between 1300-1400 surveys have been returned so far, she said. 
"The response shows that there is interest in the subject," said Miller. The committee has worked closely with Notre Dame's Office of Institutional Research in order to ensure that the survey was complete and responses to it accurate. 
Miller said that she hopes the work of the committee will be continued in years to come. 
Student surveys are still being accepted in dorm drop­offs and the student govern­ment office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
to the next stage of planning and deliberation." 
"We need a bookstore that carries academic titles," said Lyphout, "titles that you wouldn't find at your neighbor­hood bookstore." He added that the bookstore needs "a better separation [of books] from the non-book items, if in fact the non-book items are in 

Introducing Michiana's #1 Pizza 
Starlite Plzza 
now seruing at Frank's Redhots #273-4643 1733 South Bend Rue 
(for the summer) 

!Notre Dame I 

Join us as 
Professor Tom Morris 
''T 
Till U'I'IIVIASITY Of !IOTRI D..ME 

cu55 or''" 

will be speaking on his latest book: 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
ccon the campus~~ 
Open Monday-Saturday 9:00 A.M.-5:00P.M. 
/~M.
at the 


llll torageDe ot 
pus. 

"We have fantastic cus­tomers," he said. "A lot of times the customers wouldn't take their time to tell you what's on their mind. I think that says a lot about them and it says a lot about what we're doing." 
Tomorrow: a look at the book­store's textbook prices and poli­cies and student response. 
Happy Birthday Dude! 
·s 

Wednesday, April 20, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Tanzanian finds dreams come true Clinton 
By KATIE ClANCY 
News Writer 
Emanuela Assenga, a junior economics major at Saint Mary's College, received a standing ovation after deliver­ing a moving "thank-you" speech last night in Stapleton Lounge. 
Assenga thanked the "warm and kind" people that touched her life over the course of her years at Saint Mary's for their 
3:00 
4:00 
0 
4:30 
help and support throughout her international experience. 
Assenga, a native of Tanza­nia, Africa, said she "ought to do something" someday before she left Saint Mary's to express her thanks. She decided to "stand before Her, and thank Her for the most precious gift: a four year scholarship." 
As a child Assenga "had a dream of a lifelong journey to a very mysterious place." She 
You are 211 
BUON COMPLEANNO JANET fLYNN! 
Affettuosamente. Dad, Mom, (f) Jack 
-9:00 
-6:00 


4:00­ 6:30  
4:00  - 6:30  
7:00  
0  8:00  


# 8:30 0 
9:00 -11:00 
0 
0
0 


thought she was longing for something she would never know until the opportunity to apply to Saint Mary's presented itself. 
Her accep~ tance to Saint Mary's was one of "the best ac­complish­ments I could've ever achieved in my life ... it was a dream come true." 
In order to attend Saint Mary's, Assenga would have to leave her village, parents, and 11 brothers and sisters for four long years. She didn't realize at first what a long time four years could be. 
"I had my courage, and my hopes were high, but I didn't envision the distance between us," she said. 
In addition to the adjustment of being without her family, she also had to adjust to American food, "fast talking," and many cultural differences. She cred­its "warm and kind friends" 

0 


0 
0 


Virtual Reality 
(Lemans lobby) 
Joint 5K Run 
(Begin at Grotto, End at Angela) 
SMICNIC 

(Library Green) 
with making her transition smooth and bearable. 
A former classmate described Assenga as "one of the most caring, spiritual, and hardworking people I know." Assenga said she values her education very much, and has continually followed this advice from her parents: "Study hard if you want to make sense out of life." 
Professors at Saint Mary's were credited with "widening her horizons intellectually," as well as offering words of en­couragement and concern. 
"Saint Mary's means the world to me ... It's my home away from home. I have met so many kind and warm people," said Assenga. 
At the conclusion of her ex­tensive thank you's, she made a promise to Saint Mary's Col­lege. "I will promise before you, I will take this education with me to share effectively with others." Assenga plans to return to her Tanzanian village after graduation in 1995. 
Assenga was the third speak­er in the on going Sesqui­centennial Student Lecture Se­ries. 
0 

0 

0 


0 
0 
goes back toMTV 
By TERENCE HUNT Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
American schools can do a better job teaching young peo­ple that there are better ways to solve disputes "than shoot­ing or cutting up each other or beating each other," President Clinton said today. 
"I think people can be edu­cated out of that," he said in an interview taped tonight on the cable rock channel MTV. 
Fielding questions from a studio audience, Clinton said that young people are the chief perpetrators of violent crime and its chief victims. 
"There's a lot of evidence that you can teach young peo­ple who grow up in tough envi­ronments that there are other ways to solve their problems other than shooting or cutting up each other or beating each other," Clinton said. 
He said an important part of the crime bill pending before Congress is money for anti­crime education programs in schools. 
"We have to have a change in behavior and attitude and feeling among young people," the president said. 
One questioner told Clinton that, "We're not a lost genera­tion but sometimes I think there are a lot of adults that would like to lose us." 
Another questioner men­tioned the suicide of grunge rocker Curt Cobain and said youths are bothered by a feel­ing of emptiness. 
Clinton said that, too often, youths are obsessed by imme­diate events and lose sight of the future. 
"We have to rmd a way keep an eye on the future and then suicide doesn't become an op­tion." 
In too many cases, people live in areas "where there is no family structure, no community structure and no work struc­ture and so there's a lot of irre­sponsibility," he said. 
"And so a lot of people say there's too much personal free­dom," he said. "When personal freedom's being abused, you have to move to limit it." He said that was why the ad­ministration launched an initia­tive to permit searches for weapons in public housing pro­jects within the limits of the Constitution. 
There was a question about the Whitewater controversy and Clinton's trustworthiness. 
"I think it's hard to know what the rules are. They keep raising the bar," Clinton said. 
Arguing that he has done all he could to comply with investi­gators, Clinton said he agreed to have a special counsel look into the case even though he was not accused of any wrong­doing. 
The Papet{R}-1:304:45 7:15 9:45 1lnauna(lit12:453:005.317:459:5:) Wlllll fallg2(PG}-2:154:306:45 9".30 


Carnival Games & , Caricatures (Library Green) 
•

Jello Pits (Angela Lawn) Sleepless in South Bend 0 (Haggar Parlor) 


•
Movie -Caddyshack (Carroll Auditorium) Twister Centes 
c 
• 


page6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 20, 1994 
Jury grants big award Weekend Wheels will return 
By CORRINE DORAN Wheels program. Ridership in­special events fund, said
in mastectomy case 
Assisitam News Editor creased this year over last Palermo. 

Speed. Power. And more speed. That's what the new Power MacintoshN is all about. Its a like statistical analysis, multimedia, 3-D modeling and much more. So, what are you Macintosh" with PowerPCN technology. Which makes it an waiting for? Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more in-
The new Power Macintosh from Apple.
incredibly fast personal computer. And the possibilities are formation and see for yourself. Now .l .;. endless. Because now you'll have the power you need for high-performance applications that Power Macintosh is here, college may never be the same. 
Appt€W. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 
ByRON WORD 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

A woman whose left breast was removed after a misdiag­nosis of cancer was awarded $2.7 million Tuesday by a jury that ruled all four doctors in the case negligent. 
''I'm glad this part of the nightmare is over," Elizabeth England said just moments af­ter the jury of four women and two men awarded her $1 mil­lion for past injuries and $1.7 million for future damages. 
The 41-year-old woman, who has undergone five breast re­construction operations since the March 1992 mastectomy, still faces more surgery. 
Dr. Curtis Phillips, who per­formed the mastectomy, was found by the jury to be 45 per­cent responsible. 
Dr. J. Robert Benson, Eng­land's original surgeon, who learned of the cancer misdiag­nosis before the mastectomy but did not notify her, was found 25 percent responsible. 
Dr. Edward Chopskie, a pathologist who discovered the mistake and notified Benson, was found 20 percent ~esponsi­ble, while Dr. George Katibah, who misread a tissue sample, was found 10 percent to blame. 
England's breast was re­moved after a lab incorrectly diagnosed cancer. The error was found two weeks before England's mastectomy, but no one notified her or Phillips. The breast was found to be cancer­free after its removal. 
HAPPY 21st 
BIRTHDAY 
SlEVE! 
Have a "Coke" on us! 

Love, Mom, Dad &Kip 
During the year's final meet­ing of Hall President's Council, the council voted to maintain the Weekend Wheels program. 
llt:!!luilfji'UI'Ii1SniJN611 
Because of budgeting re­straints caused by Student Ac­tivities' decision to change the distribution of The Shirt rev­enues, the council was forced to decide between continuing funding for either hall alloca­tions or the Weekend Wheels project. 
Debate centered around the necessity of the Weekend 
THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE PROGRAM FOR JOB HUNTERS AND CAREER SWITCHERS Asystematic approach to the job-hunt and career change. 
RESUME SKILLS • INTERVIEWING SKILLS • 
(9:00 to 11:00 on Tuesday, Thursday) (9:00 to 12:00 on Monday, Wednesday, Friday) 
•
Writing aResume that lands ajob interview. •How to sell yourself in an interview. 

•
Selling yourself in the cover letter. •Do's and Don'ts of interviewing. 

•
Identifying skills and incorporating them •Tough interview questions into the resume. and how to answer them. 


CAREER SUCCESS IN THE 90'S· (9:00 to 12:00 on Saturday) 
•Resume skills (overview) •Goal Setting •Dress for Success 

•Interviewing skills (overview) •Networking/Contact Management 
IU n ~S Hundreds of ingenious ideas and techniques for landing the perfect job! 
SUPERHIRES, INC. 
Emmons Road • Georgetown Center 46637 • Pb: 219-272-2698 Fax: 2111-272-1660 
year's numbers, presumably because of heightened advertis­ing for the program, according to Rich Palermo, HPC co-chair. Some presidents said the pro­gram wasted money since, as a result of University policy, the shuttles cannot pick students up directly from campus. 
The possibility of running the program soley on football weekends and Saint Patrick's Day, when ridership is highest, was discussed and will be brought up next fall. The ex­cess money could be used to in­crease advertising for the pro­gram or it could go into the 
internal App/eCD"'J(JOi Plus CD-ROM Drive, Macintosh" intemal AppleCD"' J(JOi Plus CD-ROM Drive, Macinlosh" Color fMJ/ay, Apple" Extended Keyboard II and mouse. Color Display, Apple" Extended KeyboardUand mouse 
The vote to allocate money for the program was opposed by four members. Weekend Wheels will receive $10,000 to run for the 1994-95 school year. 
Payment and other organiza­tional plans for hall storage were reviewed and solidified by Gayle Spencer, Student Activi­ties liason to the council. She proposed the return of hall storage in the fall be held Mon­day, Aug. 29. 
In other HPC news: 

•Despite some advertising to the contrary, Kevin Nealon will perform at 8:30 Friday night. 

.---~--------~ ---~---~--­
Wednesday, April 20, 1994 
Striking Teamsters show signs of dissent 
By ROBERT NAYLOR 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Negotiators broke into small groups to settle key issues in a nationwide trucking strike, but Teamsters union President Ron Carey had his hands full with a protest staged by his own mem­bers. 
Negotiators for the Teamsters and Trucking Management Inc., which represents 22 trucking companies, arranged a third day of meetings today under the watchful eye of fed­eral mediators. They said there remained "wide gaps dividing 
the parties" after Tuesday's sessions. 

The Clinton administration has quietly been pressing for an agreement between the Teamsters and TMI, and the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Ser. 
Negotiators· divided into sub­committees to discuss the toughest issues, including the greater use of trains by ship­pers and the hiring of part-time workers. Those issues created the impasse that led to a break­down in earlier talks on March 31 and the strike by 70,000 union drivers and dock workers that began April 6. 
~~~,~,~,~1~1~1EfE'§'§'~,~,~,~f¥f¥ff~
~~,~ ~ ~ ,~, ~, ~, ~ w ¥ ¥ ? f frrrr~ 
....... 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
....... o • 
~ 
111111 I o • 
............_ 
~ ~ 
IIIII,,... 
r.:;:.... 
......-.-,,,.,...
•
...........-­
......... 
~ 
J1111111""7.'
,...... 
~ 
~ 
. . 
The Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
Chicago 20th Century Music Ensemble 
Guy Victor Bordo -Music Director featuring The Notre Dame String Trio Georgine Resick -Soprano 
works by Arnold Schoenberg, Sigfrid Karg-Eiert, Heitor Villa-Lobos, Ethan Haimo, Michael Colquhoun, C. P. First 
Wednesday, April20, 1994 
8:00p.m. 
Washington Hall Admission free; open to the public 
....... 
~ 
_;;•;.:!!: ....:;;:: 
~ 
I ...... 
~ 
1111111 
~ 
....~ 
........,, 
~ 
''''11111 
~ ~111 
-:-: ..:::;, 
-:.~ 
.............._ 

......... 
~ 
~ 

~i-=j=j~J ~J iJ ~j ~j~!~ 1~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~:.~:.~~
: = = = = = = = = = = :::: :::: :::: :::: :. :. ':..
..: ~ : == == -= -= -= -=-= =-= -= --~ ~
-------= -­

STUDENTS! 
Shopping for a new car for after graduation? Then look at this! 
• 
Rates as low as 6.25% APR for a new car and 7.25% APR for a used car. 

• 
Up to 5 years to repay and deferred payments until September, 1994. 

• 
$100 CASH BONUS when your loan is disbursed. 


Students with good credit or no credit qualify, no co-signer needed. Bring your letter of employment. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University of Notre Dame 

--·~---------~--~-~--­

The Observer/Macy Hueckel 
Taking off 

Steve Stem and Dan Avis, seniors in aerospace engineering, hard at work building an airplane for their senior level design class. The semester long project involves designing, building, and testing a radio-con­trolled airplane. The test flight for this year's aircraft will be next Wednesday at 6 pm in Loftus. 
New rules for student vans 
Spec1alIntroductoryOffer! 

Bring in this coupon for a FREE MEDIUM COKE* 
with the purchase of a 
Meal Deal for 1 
Offer expires Friday, April 22, 1994 
* Or get 2 FREE Medium Cokes with a Meal Deal for 1-2 
Get 3 FREE Medium Cokes with a Meal Deal for 2-3 
Get a FREE 2-Liter Coke or Pepsi with a Family Deal for 5 
The Oak Room 
Located in South Dining Hall 

occuring when students drive the trucks to and from campus, and while the trucks are on campus, which could expose the University to tremendous li­ability." 
"Beginning this spring, the University will not allow mov­ing trucks and vans on campus unless they are from profes­sional moving companies and 
Student Activities has a copy of 
their contract with the particu­
lar Geographic Club on file," 
the letter stated. 

According to Assistant Direc­tor of Alumni Clubs Frances Shavers, the decision was made in order to avoid the risks of danger to the students and of liability exposure to the University. 
"We realize that students are limited in funds, but we're still worried about them driving the vans," said Shavers. "We don't want to risk having inexperi­enced drivers driving these vans and possibly running into bad weather and getting in ac­cidents." 
"The University is willing to 
help students negotiate with 
the different companies," said 
Shavers. "We're just asking 
them to contract with licensed 
drivers." 

For many students, the new 
policy will nevertheless cause 
an inconveinance. 

"It's just a huge hassle," 
said Off-Campus Co-President 
Matt Reh. "A lot of people 
depend on those vans to get 
their things to and from 
school." 

"It's a lot of work and very difficult to go through the whole process of hiring a pri­vate company," he said. "It's defmitely an inconveinance." 
By KATE CRISHAM 
Assistant News Editor 

Notre Dame Geographic Clubs will no longer be able to utilize moving services to transport student belongings to and from campus unless they contract with a professional service pre­viously approved by Student Activities. 
A letter to all Geographic Clubs from Alumni Association Executive Director Chuck Lennon stated that "the Uni­versity recognizes that the Geo­graphic Clubs are providing a valuable service for the stu­dents. 
However, the University is very concerned about the possi­bility of serious accidents 
• • o 1 I I I I I I • I I o \ o I I I I I I I I o I I I I I I I I I I) I .I I I' I' 1 I I • • o o o ,·j I I 1 • I\ I 011 1 o I I 1 I o I 1 I I 1 I • I I I I I I I' I I I' I • 1' • 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................Se:lfl Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Conuoller.................................. , .. Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lerters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy .helios.nd.edu 

JOSH OZERSKY 
A reminiscence in sarcasm The method behind the meanness 


My rhythms of composition were put off by the tragic death of Kurt Cobain last week, which explains the two-lag in this col­umn's appearance; but now, having sufficiently rallied from that awful event. I am prepared to write an epilogue to my first year at Notre Dame. 
Sympathetic readers will be pleased to know I passed my Master's exam, and freed of the paralytic hysteria associated with such trials, I can recollect in tranquility my first impres­sions of Notre Dame. I must 
'when I first came 
here, I feared an archaic chaos of stu­dents living unregiment­ed lives, making as many copies as they wanted on the printers .. .' 
admit I had apprehensions be­fore I came here. But far from the citadel of white values I ex­pected Notre Dame to be, I found it instead a glorious en­clave of multiculturalism, its richness and diversity matched only by its fabulous shops and restaurants. Only the loss of my starting fullback's job to Lee Becton marred what might have been a perfect year. 
Notre Dame! Wake up the echoes! How I look forward to being an obese alumni, wheez­ing support manfully at football games and parking my Lincoln on muddy lots. My devotion to what the admissions office calls "the Notre Dame family" knows no bounds in pursuit of this goal. Even as I write, my per­sonalized license plate, "ND SKANK", is on order, bound for my sporty new red civic. 
And the rules! Who can ever get enough of them? When I first came here, I feared an an­archic chaos of students living unregimented lives, making as many copies as they wanted on the printers, and who knows what else. The swaddling bands of Mother Dome, need­less to say, reassured me. The idea of forty-five year old grad students copulating out of wed­lock kept me up at night, until I found we had a rule against it. Likewise with medium-rare hamburgers. But these are in­cidental virtues. 
I suppose that by this point in my column, if you have made it this far. you are saying to your­self, "enough already!" If this facetious bastard doesn't like it here, why doesn't he just go back to New York where he be­longs? Why does he have to in­flict his oppressive sarcasm on us? This Ozersky. Who's he trying to kid? 
I recognize such criticisms. The fact is, I'm getting comfort­able at Notre Dame. First it struck me as merely a sea of white faces, but I've made my peace with the place. This is probably just a weakness of character, but there it is. I could live here for another two years or more! And by that time I would have a stack saved up of Letters to a Lonely God to bring back to New York with me and publish under my own name. 
Perhaps I have been too hos­tile. The fact is, it's not that different from Rutgers. And it is only an hour away from Gary. But perhaps my brain is just fried from the long semes­ter (I sat in the library, reader, while you were out spiking vol­leyballs in the Daytona sun) and maybe this accounts for my heightened nastiness. Or maybe not. I can't decide. But I will stop riding Notre Dame before they kick me out! I'm a company man! I know where my bread is buttered! 
In between papers and bottles of Beaujolais, I've been thinking about the newest trend toward remaking classic television se­ries into movies. Submitted for your approval are a couple of revisionist casts for the coming year: 
A new version of Hogan's Heroes, starring Charlie Sheen as Hogan, Ben Kingsley as LeBeau, Hugh Grant as Newkirk. and Tupac Shakur as Kinch. With Newman from Seinfeld as General Burchalter, and Coach Holtz as Colonel Klink. 
A new version of I Dream of Jeannie, starring Larry Bud Melman as Tony, one of the Barbi Twins as Jeannie, and the other one as her evil sister. 
A new version of Dragnet, starring Fred Schneider of the B-52s as Joe, Paul Schaeffer as Bill, and Regis Philbin as their all-business, cross-dressing su­pervisor. 
A live action movie of The Simpsons, with Dan Quayle as Bart, Bob Dole as Mr. Burns, and George Will as Smithers. 
A new Fat Albert and the 
Cosby Kids, starring Onyx and 
Heavy D. or possibly Fat Joe Da 
Gangsta as Albert. .. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in American history. 
I, FARRINGTON 


DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I'M... I'M 
?TANDING OUT5![}!3... ONA 
[)&9)/AT& 
caJN71<f ROAIJ... 
YOU5£& 50METH!NG, !JON'T YOU~ IT'S AN AU&N, R./6HF 

UM... I 
DON'T THINK 
so... 
1/ 
!HEN IT'S YOUR. MOTHER.! 
5H/5SHOW­IN6A !<NIP&, 15N'T91!3? 
I 

''Death makes life tough for everybody." 
-Brooke Hearn 
Notre Dame Magazine 
Autumn 1990 
ACCENT 
Wednesday, April 20, 1994 page 9 
Music with meaning returns 
"Folks Back Home" offer talent and nostalgia mixture 
BY MARY GOOD much that someone alone play­sound again. Although "The Folks Back the sixties and I think it will 
Accent Editor ing an acoustic guitar became a "This is a great opportunity Home" will be a dose of nostal­now," Perrin said. 
bit quaint , said MacKenzie. for me to get together with gia, it will more importantly be "The Folks Back Home" will 
When the war was over and friends I haven't seen in a revival of acoustic music that not be a group of hippies reliv­
Times have changed. civil rights became a reality awhile," Chuck Perrin, folk is just as valid today as it was ing their youth, it will be youth Students have changed. The there was little protest music. singer and former campus per­in the late sixties and early learning from the energy of social issues that charged the "Folk music was part of a sonality, said. "I am excited seventies. those who were once and re­campus scene in the late sixties zeitgeist, a spirit of the time," about the chance to play back "Music, words and acoustic main still to be committed to and early seventies have MacKenzie said. at Notre Dame again." sound meant a lot to people in their music and memories. 
changed. Folk music, however, On Saturday when is back and even better. MacKenzitJ plays his still pow­
This Saturday night at 8 p.m. erful but now improved sound in the LaFortune Ballroom, the in the company of friends he sound of an era that was expects the songs will show marked by social activism themselves to have held up 
(remember Vietnam), coffee­well. 
houses and pure acoustic "Good music will survive," he sound at its peak is returning said. to Notre Dame and Saint MacKenzie attributes the Mary's in the form of "The timelessness of folk music to Folks Back Home." the playfulness and almost sur­
This weekend when sixteen real quality of the words. alumni return to South Bend, "Folk music is linguistically Notre Dame and Saint Mary's rich," he said. "Language is a students will be get a taste of powerful and satisfying tool what their campuses were re­with which to play." ally like during the golden age When MacKenzie picks up his of folk music. As the alumni guitar, an upgrade from the musicians take the stage for a ,one he used back in his hay reunion concert entitled "The day, listeners can probably ex­Folks Back Home," their music pect to enjoy the tunes of Bob will take on a still meaningful, Dylan that he feels have well yet modified message. withstood the test of time. 
In the late sixties there was a Although many of Saturday's tremendously energetic music featured artists have not seen scene at Saint Mary's and each other since graduation, Notre Dame, according to Lou partly because they are not the 
MacKenzie, professor of French typical alums who get together Literature and also a partici­at class reunions, this weekend pant in Saturday's concert. should prove to be the perfect MacKenzie remembers dorms time for a reunion of relation­
fighting over who had the best ships as well as rhythm. bands on their porches on foot­"Time, space, past and pre­
ball Saturday's when he was a sent will run together quickly student. During that time, the when we see and hear each music and singing on campus other again," MacKenzie specu­
helped define Notre Dame and lated. Saint Mary's. Since their musicianship has 
After this craze died down, expanded, participants are all the music began to change so excited to enjoy each other's 

Students can enter whole new world with Virtual Reality 
BY THERESA ALEMAN Assistant Accent Editor 
You put on a headset, grab a gun, and step into the world of a computer video game. Virtual Reality allows you to experience a whole new world, "Cyberspace." This computer­generated world allows you to interact with people, objects, even extinct animals. 
This Thursday from 3 to 9 p.m., Saint Mary's LeMans Hall 
' some day all of our pleasure and expe­rience will be second hand. We'll experience everything through Virtual Reality.' 
Jesse Newman 

Lobby will host Virtual Reality video games free of charge as part of the events of AnTostal 1994. 
Last year for AnTostal, Notre Dame's LaFortune Student Center hosted the video games and students who took advan­tage of the opportunity still 
remember their experiences of me and this other guy trying to It's like nothing you've ever Virtual Reality. shoot at each other while a done before," said Fil pterodactyl flew around trying Anastasio, a Cavanaugh Hall 

"It's a computer interactive sophomore. world. The one I played was Tim Glenister, a Morrissey 
to get us. There were a bunch of platforms and we held guns. 
Hall sophomore recalled his experience of the video game, 
"You put on the goggles and you leave reality. At first you can't control your movement very well but it gets better as you play." 
"The best way to describe it is like being inside that Dire Straits video, 'Money for Nothing.' You're just climbing into a computer and having someone shoot at you," said Glenister. 
Jesse Newman, a Cavanaugh Hall sophomore, recalled his experience and reflected on the future implications of the game, "It's the wave of the future... Sega, Nintendo, all of that will be replaced by virtual reality. Kids will come home after school and put those headsets on 20 years from now.'' 
"Some day all of our pleasure and experience will be second hand. We'll experience every­thing through Virtual Reality," said Newman. 
Thursday's your chance to see or experience for yourself what Virtual Reality is all about. Just make sure you return to this world afterwards. 
,--­
! 
I 
I 
-. 
page 10 

The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 20, 1994 
Hoosier 
continued from page 16 
round of the Sweet Sixteen was concluded. 
Having not won a major tour­ney since he started at guard in his junior year for the Indiana state champion Muncie Central High, he knew that this would be his final opportunity to put together another championship team. 
"It was different because I was leaving the guys I loved playing with," Winningham said. "But I was still excited by the opportunity to go out and put together a new team, and after four years of Bookstore I knew what I needed to get." 
He began his search by pick­ing up his only remaining team­mate from Bitter, Doug Scholer, who stands as a powerful rebounder and an intimidating force in the middle. 

His next pick-up came from a winter Parks & Recreation league in Mishawaka. Brad Fish, who played on Winning­ham's team, is a transfer from Bethel College who started for Bethel's squad and brings a very versatile attack to his new team. 
Joe Haigh, a junior who last year carried Afrodeesiaks to the Sweet Sixteen before break­ing his elbow, offers size, speed, and a deadly shooting touch to the mix. 
The final addition to the squad is one of the most lethal players participating in Bookstore Basketball. Eric Jones, who last year led Tequila White Lightning XI to the Bookstore title by scoring 10 points in the championship game, signed on with Winningham to complete per­haps the most talented and dangerous squad in the tour­nament. 
Winningham named the team NBT, an acronym for Nothing But Trouble and an allusion to a reference to women from The Jungle Book. 
"I don't see how they're going to lose unless they have an off day, because they can take it inside and outside," said Head Commissioner Emeritus Andy Sinn. 
"I think if we play up to our capabilities," Jones said, "we'll end up right where we ought to be." 
"We have a chance to win as long as we play as a team," said Winningham. "We're unselfish. All five guys can score, so you can't leave any of us open." 
Being unselfish is what has characterized Winningham's style of play on and off the court. 
"Most people on campus 
know him as Hoosier, and no matter where you go with him it seems like everyone knows who he is," said Scholer. "He's just a nice friendly guy who likes to make other people look good. He certainly loves doing that in basketball." 
"I enjoy playing with him be­cause he's a typical Indiana player-a team player," said Fish. "He doesn't just do things individually, he helps everyone improve." 
"He pushes you to be better," Scholer added. "He's a com­pletely fair player and I've never seen him throw a dirty shot. He's never lost his head in a game out of poor sports­manship." 
"He kind of embodies the spirit of Bookstore Basketball," said Sinn. "I wish more players could keep a cool head like he does." 
"He's probably one of the 
most unsung players ever to play here," said Bookstore Commissioner Paul Cifelli. "He's one of the least talked about players even though he makes (the round of) 16 every year. God knows what he can do with this team." 
With his days at Notre Dame coming to an end and a new career looming, Bookstore Basketball is one of the few things keeping Winningham going. 
"There are a lot of guys like me in the tournament-guys who don't have a lot of athletic ability but who love to get out there and compete," he said. 
"I won't be happy unless I win," he added. "I just want to win the tournament." 
That goal may not as tough to achieve as one may think, be­cause playing playing against a team with "Hoosier" is always Nothing But Trouble. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES f 
ANTOSTAL VOLLEYBALL TOUR­
NAMENT SIGN-UPS 
If you've already signed up, 
Call Doug at x-1067 to confirm. 
Cal Doug at x-1067 w/Team & 
Captain & ph. #. 
4 People per team Free Stuff 2outof3to15 Free Stuff Win by two 
Everybody who calls by 10 PM WED. Plays. 
ANTOSTAL VOLLEYBALL SIGN UPS LAST CHANCE!!! 
If you already signed up call Doug at x-1 067 to confirm. 
Call Doug at x-1067 w/Team & Captain & ph. #. 
4 People per team 
Free stuff 
2 out of 3 to 15 
Free stuff 
Win by 2 
Everybody who calls by 10 PM Wed. Plays!!! 
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S everyday but sunday until 5:30pm 233-2342 NO ave & Howard 
Attention graduating seniors whose parent and grandparent are Notre Dame alums: The Notre Dame Publications office needs to take photos of multigenerational alum family members during Commencement weekend. The photos are to be used in an upcom­ing University publication. Please call Marilyn or Paul at 631-5337. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: Lady's watch. Call and 
describe to reclaim it. 4-3669. 
LOST-my precious gold loop ear­ring somewhere between Lewis & Cushing, or Cushing & 02, or 02 & Lewis on Sat nile (4/16). SENTI­MENTAL VALUE--PLEASE RETURN ASAP. x3766. --thanks 
CASH REWARD! '92 alum looking to recover "lost" cellular phone missing from car parked behind Grace Hall late Sat. night. Call291-3018 ask for Roy 
Anyone who attended the SIEGFRIED SYR on Saturday: Someone mistook my camera for his/hers. If you have it (and pic­tures of people you don't know!) PLEASE call 634-4823. $$$$$$$$BIG REWARD$$$$$$$$ 
Lost: Gold necklace with cross (in the fig­ure of three nails) at Stepan Courts last Saturday. Please call Dave at x3091. Reward. 
Lost: 
Watch. 
Brown corded leather band. 
Compass housing. 
If found call 4-3233 and ask for 
Dav. 
LOST -Gold necklace w/ cross. Btwn Debartalo and Rock on Thurs. 4/14 after 10:30 am. Call Susan x1713. 
LOST -Gold rose brooch on 4/15 in or outside of Sacred Heart Church. Sentimental value. REWARD! Call 1-6411. 
LOST: LADY'S BLACK LEATHER PURSE WITH GOLD TRIM ON SATURDAY NIGHT AT WASHING­TON HALL REWARD. 
CALL 631-6557. 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING-Earn up to $2000+/mo. on cruise ships or land-tour companies. World travel. Summer & full-time employment available. No exp necessary. For info call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
need graduation tickets bad call Harry 233-5130 
LOVING CARE FOR 2 CHILDREN 
(AGES 4 + 1) & HELP WITH SOME HOUSEHOLD CHORES, 9-12 HRS./WK. MAY 1-LATE JULY. OWN TRANSP. + EXP. REQ'D. 
233-6657. 
SUMMER/PERMANENT FULL TIME $300/WEEK. WORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND CON­SUMER RIGHTS. WK HRS 
1:30-10:30 M-F. FOR INTERVIEW CALL 232-7905 
ESPRESSO BARTENDER Outgoing coffee-lovers needed for area's finest espresso bar, the Tortoise & the Hare Cafe. Call 256­JAVA & leave message. 
I NEED A RIDE TO NEW JERSEY/ PHILA. AREA AFTER FINALS. CALL MAUREEN @ x2922 
. Need female roommate for Oak Hill Condo 6/1 -8/? call JD x4003 
On and off campus newspaper car­riers, branch managers, sales per­sonnel needed for fall 94 semester. Contact City News Servic1;1 Inc., 232-3205 or 288-9361 for informa­tion or application. 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 extA29. 

ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT ·Earn up to $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584 
SUMMER HELP IN SOUTH BEND. NO or SMC student to care for 3 children June 13 -Aug 5, Mon thru Fri. Must have good references and love kids. Non smoker. Call7-10pm 708-524-9386 
CHILD CARE-Caregiver needed for the summer. 16 hrs per wk for 4 yr and 20 mo. old girls. Ref required. Call Lisa at 273-4575 
Need help w/ summer rent? 3 students need housing 6/15-7/25 Call Kristin @4942 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­0219 
Want to buy 386 or 486 computer & peripherals. Can wait until after exams. Bob or Bill 
236-8334. 
SUMMER NANNY for NO family on Chicago N. Shore. Live-in/out. End MAY -AUG. Exper w/ newborn &tod­dler a plus. lnclds NJ beach vaca­tion w/family. call708-433-1628 
Need roommate-Turtle Crk-for summer call Chrisx4085 
FOR RENT 

FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF CAMPUS. 272-0615 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
COLLEGE PARK 

CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library -New appliances -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -Washer & Dryer units -Large closets -Covered parking 
· -Security System -Large balconies ----Units now available­
$660 per month ..... Going Quickly!! UUU**CALL: 272·0691********'*'* 
NEEDED: 

people to sublease a Turtle Creek 
Townhouse for the summer 
Please call Amy or Krista x2731 
Summer break is just around the corner! Call Kelly or Judie at 291· 1414 to reserve a Hertz Penske truck to make your move home eas­ier. 
For Rent -Diamond Lake Duplex Available Sept.-May All new· furnished. June thru August weekly rental Must see-beautiful view. Call1-616-445-8492 on Sundays only. 21636 Howell Dr. Cassopolis, Ml HOME BASED BED/BREAKFAST ALLIANCE offers local family com­fort for all NO activities. 
(219) 271-0989, 24-hr. answering machine. 
FOR SALE 
SELLING STEREOS IS A LOT OF FUN!! Part time; 20·30 ht. weekly Min.: $5.00 an hour plus 3% com­mission. Full time; 5 days a week 5% commission against draw. Apply in person at; Alltronics 3915 Grape Rd. Mishawaka 
TWIN BED FOR SALE Call Tracy 273-6401 
FURNITURE FOR SALE • CALL 273-6032. 
BAR for sale. 8ft. long, finished oak wood. Perfect for off-campus apt I house. 4 stools included. Make offer. Call Mick, 277-4825. 
College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath, w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to 
P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN 46634 
91 VW Jetta, black, ale, 5 sp., 36k miles, 1 owner. Exc. cond., $8800 232-5207 
1992 Yamaha Seca II 600cc. only 1500 mi. Excell. cond. $2800 call Bryan -1890 
1989 Ford Bronco II 4wd 5-speed. Remaining ESP warranty. Excell. cond. $6500 call Bryan-4-1890 
For Sale: 

Blue sectional couch and kitchen table with 5 chairs. Excellent condition call 282­2072. 
Shop Early for next year's furnishings. 
83 T·bird Turbo Coupe A/C Sunrf Pwr everythg Bestoffer634-4937 
For Sale: U-shaped coach, tan chair, entertainment center, gas grill, oak table and chairs, cordless phone, lamp and more. Perfect for OC living. Call 273-6553. For Sale: brand new bed and oak desk. Call 273-3920 and ask for Keith. 
Airline tix Fe. RT from S Bend to All. $140. Good til Aug 94. 271-7280. Lve msg. 
TICKETS 
For Sale: 2 Phil Collins tix 7/20/94 Rosemont Horizon Sell at face value!! 4-2671 Can anyone give me lix or a ride to 
SMASH PUMPKINS on Sat. nile in 
Kalamazoo? I have $$$ 
Frank 1710 

I need 2 graduation tickets. My 
grandparents are coming to NO 
from LA for the first time. Call Elisa 
at 272-8563. 

I need extra graduation tickets ­
please call Brian at 4-4204 
HELP!! I need extra grad. tix 
call PIER 273·4909 
PINK FLOYD@ INDY-JUNE 14 
TOM X3450 

PERSONAL 
We are a young white Christian couple in their thirties, who live far away from the busy city life on 2000 acres. Tremendous amount of love is waiting for the special child we look forward to adopting. Call Brent or Tina at 1-800-206· 7727. 
•••••••••••••KATHARSis•••••••••••• 
APRIL 15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss 
out. Fun starts at 10.For more information on gigs and parties call237-9702. Ask for LENNY. .........................KATHARSIS ... ****.......... 
Adopt -Happily married couple wants to give your newborn love & security while easing your decision. Expenses paid. Jean & Steve 1· 800-362-8856 
ADOPTION -Let us raise your baby as you would ·with love, security and smiles. Please call Conni and Mark 1-800-392-0618 
FRIENDLY WASHINGTONIAN 
needs ride home after Senior 
Week. Will share expenses and 
driving. Call x4293 
NDE 4th Day invites all graduating 
seniors and students going abroad 
to a send-off Wednesday at 7:15 in 
the Keenan/Stanford Chapel. 
DID YOU KNOW the last Observer is 4/27? It is not too early to place your farewell classifieds to seniors & your friends. You can type in your ad now until 4/26 between Bam to 3pm Mon-Fri. There will also be a graduation Observer on 5/13. Deadline is 5/12. We are on the 3rd floor in LaFortune. 
Happy Birthday Tom Williams! so... I remembered. do I win the bet? -anabel 
CANCELLATION Professor Morris has to cancel his speaking engagement of today at the Library Auditorium at 7:30 due to illness. 
Antostal Trivia 

1) What was Issac Newton's Dog's name? 
2) What is the name of the 1994 ANTOSTAL MASCOT? 
3) What's the name of Monk Malloy's 1994 Bookstore Basketball Team? 
4) What's the LaFortune Barber's 
Name • (ROTC Joe not accept­able)? 
5) When and who does NO Football play for it's first home game 1994-1995 season? First 5 people with all correct answers get an ANTOSTAL T-shirt. Next 10 people with correct answers get an ANTOSTAL cup. Entries must be received by 5 pm today in the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune. GOOD LUCK! 
-ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL· APRIL 21/22 NOON·6PM FIELDHOUSE MALL 
Dunk a celebrity!! WIN GA'S for NEXT YEAR'S MICHIGAN GAME and OTHER COOL STUFF in the RAFFLE!! BE CHARITABLE!!! 
-ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL· 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
I'm living in D.C. this summer and am in need of an APARTMENT and ROOMMATES. If interested call Kate at X3415. 
88.9 WSND FM needs people who have some knowledge of jazz, folk, and ambient dub music for shows in the fall. No radio experience neces­sary, but it helps. If you have your own collection, that's even better. Call631-7342 and ask for John. 
In Memorial: the first ever NO Rock Climbing Club Trip! That BIG knob there Just Say No to Crack Just hold me We have to kill the kid It's Brobdingnagian 2 1/2 lbs of beef and potatoes a little white gas Marshmallows and Busch Thanks Bill Matt Kevin Brian Brian & Vice-Brian Dave Kate "kickass" & Cat "I wanna come down now" 
Wednesday, April 20, I994 The Observer· BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL page II 

WEDNESDAY'S SLATE
BOOKSTORE RESULTS TUESDAY, APRIL 19 
Old Dirty Bastards vs. The Busdrivers II (late) Showtime d. 4 Irishmen & A Fifth 21-15 
White Shadow d. Chris Farley's ... 21-17 Dribble, Dribble, Shoot... d. The Other Side 24-22 
The Good, The Bad&... d. Serial Killa 21-12 The Hood River Bandits d. Under The Rim 21-10 No Clue d. Lord Groovy 21-16 Meglipian Society d. We're Not Getting ... 21-13 Rebel Alliance d. Knick Knack Patty ... 21-8 Malicious... d. How Hot... 21-13 
All The President's... d. Running Scared 21-14 Belmont Beverages d. Hot Grits ... 23-21 L-Train d. Rigid Body Dynamics 21-12 Women... Pass The ... d. 4 Non-Blondes: .. 21-13 
Woody & 4 Other Stiffs d. Bungalungus 22-20 Magnolia Thunder d. Ain't No Love 21-9 NBT d. Team 432 21-7 The Ya-Hoo Recovering ... d. Hot Fudge 21-15 
5,4:45

Prop. 48 d. Behind The Back... 21-18 Headbangers d. 5X 21-14 No Clue? '''~ ;.('4TI< 
<Stepan$, 5:30

Sweeter Than Candy d. You Got A Rip ln... 21-14 Majestic Silverbacks d. UFA KEFE 21-8 
The Good... Vito's Barber Shop d. Bubonic Snatch 21-7 Pink Sky In The... d. 2 Other ... 21-9 Stepan 5, 6:15 
Showtime /.iii/ ..

Watch Out d. 4 Big Strong Oarsman ... 21-5 Ebony d. Wooden Shoes 21-13 Stepan 6;4:00 
'LIJ''>"-~<>vs. Meglipian ... 

John Kruk's (CCE) d. Take The Pain 21-7 Sudden Death d. In-N-Out 21-14 
Stepan 6, 4:45 

Dos Kloskas d. El Stoppo 21-7 Strategic Deterrences d. Bullseye... 23-21 .Be•lfet!!ge vs. Dribble... 
Stepan 6, 5:30

Unfrozen... d. Development Dawgs 21-15 Coming From Behind d. Catalina (disqualified) Out! 
• 
Th1s year's Jo1nt 5K Run will benefit the Notre Dame Joint ROTC Unit ano Hope Rescue Mission 

• 
The entire Notre Dame community 1S 1nvited to participate in this worthwhile event. 

• 
All runners will receive a 


commemorative t-shirt 
• First 20 Runners to finish will 
receive a prize. 
• Early registrat1on IS $8 and $10 at

A Llfb. C1'1Vb.N T0 T!Jb. POOR.. 
the day of the race. 
• You can register by VISiting any of the three ROTC offices in Pasquerilla

0 Are you a single, Catholic woman? 
Center. at SMC Angela Athletic Facility or sending campus mail with $8.00 

'.i~:,ll , ,Jf '-.UT!\l UAME & ST MARVS COLLEGL entry fee to:
0 Are you independent and full of life? 
JOINTSK RUN 
Air Force ROTC OH1ce

0 Are you committed to a simple lifestyle? 
Pasquerilla Center

JOINT RUN 
If you are, call Sr. Margaret Hoffelder (219-422-6675) 
AIR FORCE • ARMY • NAVY • Late reg1strat1on & check 1n beg1n at 
3:00 PM at the Grotto.

to imagine together how your life and ours might join in service to the world's poor and disenfranchised. 
4:00 PM • 21 APRIL 1994 
Follow1ng the race will be the traditional SMC Antostal Picnic. All are welcomed. 
AMST 368H 01 2871 CHEM 223L 01 1328 ENOL 201 03 3772 HESB 450 01 1657 ME 470 01 1865 RLST 240 54 9554 THEO 28Z 01 J740 
AMST 369H 01 3866 CHEM ZlJL oz 1330 ENGL 300E 01 J77J HESB 491 01 J884 MGT 231 oz 1869 RLST JJS 64 9564 THEO 287 01 J744 
AMST JBZH 01 3867 CHEM ZZJL OJ 1332 ENGL 301B 01 0769 HIST Z27 01 J57J MGT ZJI OJ 1872 ROhl !OJ 04 2299 THEO 290 01 0570
DART 
AMST 387H 01 1684 CHEM ZlJL 04 133J ENOL JOIB 02 0916 HIST ZZ7T 01 J574 MGT 231 04 1874 ROFR 103 05 2300 THEO J95 01 25Z6
CLOSED SEC­
AMST 39J 01 2893 CHEM 223L 05 1334 ENOL 306C 01 J776 HIST Z27T 03 J576 MGT ZJI 05 1871 ROFR ZJ5 01 ZJ05 THEO 401 01 2381
TIONS ASOF 
AMST 456H 01 J869 CHEM ZZJL 06 0555 ENOL 310 02 0773 HIST ZZ7T 06 J579 MGT Z40 02 1877 ROFR JIO 01 2306 THEO 475 01 J750
7P .M. 4/19/1994 
AMST 49JE 01 J961 CHEM Z47L 01 1329 ENOL Jl2 OJ 1548 HIST JOBA 01 Z77J MGT 240 OJ 0751 ROFR 310 OJ J688 THTR 276 54 9754 ACCT 131 OJ 0507 
ANTH 328 01 2677 CHEM 3Z2L 01 13J8 ENOL JI6G 01 2940 HIST JIIA 01 J581 MGT 240 04 1878 ROFR 4J5 01 J689 THTR 276 56 9756 ACCT 231 02 0506 
ANTH J18A 01 Z678 CHEM JJJL 01 0624 ENOL JI9A 01 1549 HIST JI9A 01 J58J MGT 240 05 1880 ROFR 44J 01 J690 ACCT ZJI OJ 0505 
ANTH 329 01 2809 CHEM JJ3L 02 1341 ENGL J21 01 1551 HIST J54 01 J586 MGT 240 06 1879 ROFR 490 01 2661 CLASSES THAT 
ACCT 231 04 0504 
ANTH J30 01 0473 CHEM 461L oz 0793 ENOL JJI 01 J781 HIST J54A 01 3587 MGT J50 01 1881 ROIT 101 OJ ZJ09 WILL REOPEN AT ACCT 231 05 050J 
ANTH J57 01 J974 COCL 101 01 347J ENOL 379E 01 3784 HIST J55 01 3885 MGT 451 OJ 2890 ROIT 101 04 0649 7P.M. 7/20/1994 
ACCT 231 08 0500 
ANTH J86 01 JJ88 COCT 441 01 J466 ENGL J99A 01 1797 HIST J71A 01 2777 M1 J08 OJ· 1774 ROIT !OJ 02 ZJII ACCT J80 01 1059 ACCT ZJI 09 0498 
ANTH 410A 01 J394 COMM !OJ 01 9701 ENOL 409 01 J787 HIST 400 01 J888 MSCI 111 02 1901 ROIT 105 oz 2477 AFAM 371 01 Z780 ACCT Z3l 10 0496 
ANTH 430 01 JJ95 COMM 103 05 9705 ENOL 415C 01 3791 HIST 401A 01 J589 MUS zzo 01 J6J5 ROSP 101 05 ZJI6 AL Zll 01 1074 ACCT ZJI II 0495 
ANTH 435 01 JJ96 COMM !OJ 09 9709 ENOL 415F OJ J96Z HIST 413A 01 J591 MUS 226 01 19J2 ROSP IOZA 06 2577 AL 211 03 1076 ACCT 232 oz 1047 
ARCH 143 01 2419 COMM 103 11 9711 ENGL 418C 01 J794 HIST 45JA 01 J595 MUS 228 01 3623 ROSP 103 04 23Z6 AL Zll 04 1077 ACCT 334 oz 1049 
ARCH 443 01 IIZZ COMM 210 12 971Z ENOL 45J 01 Z798 HIST 458 01 Z872 MUS ZZ9 01 J624 ROSP 103 05 23Z7 AL Zll 13 1086 ACCT 334 04 1051 
ARCH 443 03 0035 COMM ZIO 14 9714 ENGL 471T 01 J804 H1ST 458A 01 Z87J PHIL 101 01 ZOOJ ROSP IOJ 06 23Z8 AL Z11 14 1087 ACCT J34 05 1050 
ARCH 54J OJ 09J5 COMM 300 16 9716 ENGL 471T OJ J806 HIST 471 01 J598 PHIL 201 oz Z004 ROSP 10J 07 ZJZ9 AL 111 18 1091 ACCT J71 oz 1057 
ARCH 54J 04 JJ76 COMM JOJ 18 9718 ENGL 495 01 J809 HIST 471A 01 J599 PHIL 101 04 Z006 ROSP 10J 09 zm AL Z11 19 J09Z ACCT J71 OJ 1056 
ARCH 565 OJ JJ65 COMM J08 20 9720 AN ZJ1 01 1563 HIST 474A 01 Z686 PHIL 201 05 Z007 ROSP ZJO 01 J699 BA 230 05 1196 ACCT 371 04 105J 
ARHI 169 OJ 1128 COMM 308 zz 972Z AN Z3l oz 0756 HIST 486A 01 J60J PHIL 201 06 zoos ROSP 234 oz 054J BA 230 07 0124ACCT 371 05 1055 
ARHI Z51L oz Z554 COTH Z04 02 Z864 AN 347 OJ Jl50 HIST 49J 01 3604 PHIL 201 07 Z009 ROSP 237 OJ 08Z6 BA J33 OJ 0482 ACCT J80 OJ 1059 
ARHI 4J6 OJ J97J COTH Z05 01 Z750 AN 347 02 Jl51 H1ST 701 01 1670 PHIL 201 08 2010 ROSP 237 oz 0909 BIOS J04L 01 IZI9ACCT 475 01 1060 ARST 149S oz 34Z9 COTH Z05 oz Z866 AN J60 01 1564 liPS JZO 01 2547 PHIL 201 09 2011 ROSP ZJ7 OJ 054Z BIOS 4ZZ 01 JZOJACCT 476 oz 1063 ARST Z31S 01 1147 COTH 210 01 0664 AN 360 02 1565 liPS 420 01 J9JO PHIL ZOI 10 2012 ROSP JIO 01 1339 CHEM Z23L oz 1330ACCT 476 04 Z5ZO 
ARST 241S 01 2499 COTH 360 01 066J AN 360 OJ 1566 liPS 471 01 Z757 PHIL ZOI 11 2516 ROSP 318 01 Z675 
CHEM Z23L 03 mzACCT 476. 05 J148 ARST 247S 01 2451 COTH J77 01 Z75Z AN J60 04 1567 LAW 601 01 1709 PHIL 201 12 10J7 ROSP JIB oz J700 ECON Z24T 06 OJ6BACCT 479 01 1064 BA Z30 03 1194 COTH 441 01 066Z AN J60 05 1568 LAW 60J OJ 3144 PHIL ZOI 13 IOJ4 ROSP JZ8 OJ Z340 ECON Z24T 08 0366ACCT 499 01 4089 BA 130 04 1195 COTH 461 01 1379 AN 361 02 1570 LAW 631A 01 1725 PHIL 201 14 0590 ROSP JZ8 oz 004J ECON Z24T 09 OJ65AFAM JZ9 01 Z811 BA 230 05 1196 CSE 3Jl OJ 0795 AN 361 OJ 157J LAW 6JIB OJ 1726 PHIL 101 15 2559 ROSP 412 OJ J70Z ECON 224T 18 OJ 51AFAM 371 OJ Z780 BA 230 06 !197 CSE 33ZL 01 !073 AN 361 04 1571 LAW 631D 0! 1728 PHIL 101 16 0589 sc 141L 01 2666 ECON 224T 19 0349AFAM 393 OJ 2892 BA 230 07 0124 CSE JJZL OJ 0604 AN 361 06 JI5Z LAW 652A 01 0917 PHIL 201 17 0045 soc Z20 01 ZJ57 

EE ZZ4L 01 1419

AFAM 401 01 3377 BA 33J 01 048Z CSE 700 OJ 0006 AN J70 OJ 1574 LAW 67ZA OJ 0919 PHIL ZJ6 01 3976 soc 2ZOT 01 0586 ENOL !OJ 01 J959AFAM 453 01 3860 BA 36Z OJ 1199 DESN Z81S 01 J441 FIN J76 oz 1578 LAW 676 01 1731 PHIL 221 01 0172 soc ZZOT 02 0643 ENOL 201 oz 3771AL 211 01 1074 BA J63 01 1200 DESN 48\S OJ OJZO FIN J80 03 1581 LAW 679 01 1781 PHIL 222 oz 0837 soc 2J2 01 Z510 ENOL 201 03 3772AL 211 02 1075 BA J63 02 1441 ECON 22JT OJ l9ZB AN 380 04 Jl55 LAW 695 02 17J4 PHIL ZZ5 01 1783 soc 24Z 01 Z878 ENOL J06C OJ 3776AL 211 03 1076 
BA 363 04 IZOI ECON 224A OJ 0324 FIN 470 01 1583 LAW 695 OJ 1735 PHIL 227 01 3641 soc 242 oz 1880 
ENOL 3ZZ 01 1551AL 211 04 1077 BA 363 05 IZ03 ECON Z24T oz 0372 GE 101 OJ 1626 LAW 695 04 1736 PHIL 241 OJ 40Z3 soc JOJ 01 1820 ENOL J79E 01 J784AL 211 05 1078 BA 36J 06 OZ25 ECON 2Z4T 03 OJ71 GE 101 oz 16Z7 LAW 695 06 0710 PHIL 241 oz 40Z4 soc JJZ 01 Z6l5 AN 347 OJ JJ50AL 211 06 1079 BA 391 OJ IOJO ECON 224T 04 OJ70 GE 101 03 1628 MARK 231 03 1741 PHIL Z4l OJ 4058 soc 370 01 24ZZ GE 10J OJ 1633AL 211 07 1080 

BA J91 oz 09Z8 ECON Z24T 05 OJ69 GE IOJ OJ 1631 MARK ZJ! 06 1744 PHIL Z4l 04 4059 soc J90 01 J7!4 AL 211 08 1081 
HESB 450 OJ 1657

BA 392 02 J946 ECON 2Z4T 06 0368 GE 103 oz 16JZ MARK 231 07 1745 PHIL 24Z oz 4063 soc 401 01 3917 AL 211 09 1082 
HIST ZZIT OJ J576BA 490 OJ 1205 ECON ZZ4T 07 0367 GE 10J 03 163J MARK J50 02 1747 PHIL Z46 01 ZOl5 soc 4Z9 OJ J715 HIST JOBA OJ Z773AL 111 13 1086 

BA 490 03 1207 ECON 224T 08 OJ66 GE 107 OJ 1636 MARK 370 02 1749 PHIL 241 OJ J64Z soc 430 OJ 39I8 AL Zl I 14 1087 
MARK 231 07 1745

BIOS Z50L OJ 3191 ECON 224T 09 0365 GEOS 141L OJ Z665 MARK 384 01 175Z PHIL 261 01 2016 soc 4J5 OJ J919 AL Zll 15 1088 
MATH Z25T 03 0786

BIOS J04 01 IZJ8 ECON 224T 10 0364 GEOS 141L 04 4015 MARK 476 OJ 175J PHIL 161 oz 065J soc 445 OJ J717 AL Zll 16 1089 
MGT 231 04 1874

BIOS J04L 01 lZ\9 ECON Z24T II 036J GEOS 14\L 05 4016 MATH lOZ OJ 0572 PHIL Z65 OJ 1017 soc 45Z OJ J7!8 AL 21 I 18 1091 
PHIL 201 08 ZOJO

BIOS 304L 02 1220 ECON ZZ4T 1Z 0361 GEOS 498A OI 4019 MATH 2Z5T 02 0787 PHYS ZZJL OJ Z043 soc 552 01 3725 AL Zll 19 1092 
PHIL ZOJ lZ 1037

BIOS 344L 01 lZZZ ECON 224T 17 0353 oovr Z42T OJ 3515 MATH 2Z5T 03 0786 PHYS 221L oz 2044 SlV Z41 OJ 3921 AL 21 I 20 1093 
PHIL 116 01 J976

BIOS J44L 02 lZZJ ECON 224T 18 0351 oovr 24ZT 04 J518 MATH ZZ5T 04 0785 PHYS ZZlL 04 JJ60 STV 454 OJ 27I8 AL ZJ I Z1 1094 
PHIL zzz oz 0837

BIOS J44L OJ 06JI ECON 224T 19 OJ49 oovr Z4ZT 06 3511 MATH Z25T 08 0619 PHYS ZZIL 05 Z045 THEO zoo OJ 1015 AL Zll 21 1095 04 4059
PHIL 241

BIOS 344L 04 0630 ECON 224T 20 0347 oovr 243T 01 35Z5 MATH ZZ6T 02 0617 PHYS ZZ9L 01 2051 THEO 200 oz 1014 AL 211 23 1096 
PHIL 242 02 4063

BIOS 401 OJ 1645 ECON Z24T Zl 0346 oovr 243T 05 3531 MATH 2Z6T 03 0616 PHYS 219L oz Z052 THEO zoo OJ 4025 AL 11 I Z4 1097 
PHIL Z65 01 2017

BIOS 422 OJ 320J ECON 225 01 1541 oovr 243T 06 35J2 MATH JZ5 03 0784 PLS 381 oz 2155 THEO 200 04 1007 
AL Zl I Z5 1098 PHYS Z21L 05 Z045
CAPP Zl6 01 3848 ECON 2Z5 oz 1400 oovr 243T 07 35JJ MBA 622 01 1844 PSY 211 01 ZJ59 THEO 200 05 1006 
AL 211 Z6 1099 PHYS ZZ9L 01 2051 
.,

CAPP 303 01 1819 ECON 401 01 3495 oovr 243T 08 3534 MBA 624 01 3172 PSY lilA 01 2160 THEO zoo 08 Z523 
AL 211 Z1 1100 PSY Zll OJ 1159
CAPP 315 OJ IZ70 ECON 4Zl 01 3497 oovr JOI 01 3965 MBA 624 oz J173 PSY 341 01 Zl62 THEO 124 01 0816 AL Zll ZB 1101 PSY J5J 01 2166
CAPP 331 OJ 0724 ECON 434 01 3500 oovr 315 01 3876 MBA 6J7 OJ 1846 PSY J41 02 2445 THEO 226 oz 373I 
AL Zll 29 IIOZ ROIT 101 04 0649
CAPP 361 OJ IZ71 ECON 484 OJ Z758 oovr 358 01 J544 MBA 649 01 2407 PSY 341 03 Z444 THEO 127 01 37JZ 
AL Zll 30 1103 ROIT !OJ 02 1311
CAPP J68 OJ 0665 ECON 489 01 3502 oovr 491B OJ OJJZ MBA 671 OJ 3176 PSY 34Z OJ 2164 THEO ZJ7 01 J7J4 AL 211 Jl 1104 ROSP 230 01 J699
CAPP J75 OJ J849 EDUC 20\F 08 8408 oovr 491F 01 0594 MBA 67J OJ 1853 PSY 353 OJ 2166 THEO 24J OJ 0262 
AL 211 33 1106 soc zzo 01 2357
CAPP 380 01 3850 EDUC 370 46 8446 oovr 4910 01 059J ME Z41L OJ 0433 PSY J55 OJ 0652 THEO 243T OJ J995 
AL 211 34 1107 soc HOT 01 064J
CAPP J95 0\ J851 EDUC 404 48 8448 oovr 491H 01 J551 ME 241L 02 04J2 PSY 357 01 3671 THEO 246 01 3735 
AL 211 35 1108 THEO zoo 02 1014
CE 24Z OJ 1276 EE 222T OJ 14Z2 GSC 242 02 1881 ME JJIL OJ 0430 PSY 45J OJ 0310 THEO Z50 OJ 0976 AL 111 36 0535 THEO zoo OJ 4025
CE Z4ZL 01 1277 EE Z24L OJ 1428 GSC 261 OJ 3874 ME JJIL OJ 04Z6 PSY 454 OJ 083J THEO 25J OJ IOOJ AME 700 03 311Z THEO 224 OJ 0816
CHEG Z55T 02 0800 EE 224L 02 1419 GSC 332 OJ Z614 ME 33\L 04 0425 PSY 462 OJ J979 THEO Z6J 01 3736 AMST Z64 01 40J9 THEO 226 oz 3731
CHEG J55T 01 Jll3 EE 347T 02 402Z GSC 41ZF OJ 38Z9 ME JJIL 05 0424 PSY 470 01 3674 THEO 264 01 Z884 AMST 303E 01 2795 THEO 243 01 0262
CHEG 355T 02 3114 ENOL 101 OJ 3959 GSC 495 OJ 3835 ME J39T OJ 3094 PSY 487A 01 3676 THEO 265 01 lOOZ 
CHEG 459 02 lJOZ ENOL 101 01 146Z HESB JOZ 01 3880 ME 339T oz J095 PSY 487C 01 J678 THEO Z66 01 2380AMST J19E 01 386J THEO 243T OJ J995 
AMST JI9E 02 3864 THEO 261 01 J736 
AMST 355H OJ J865 CHEM Z01 oz 06Z6 ENOL 101 02 3771 HESB J02L 01 3881 ME JJ9T 03 3096 RLST 240 50 9550 THEO 28Z OJ OZ6J 
The Observer • SPORTS 
us to win," stated Strategic guard Keith Eastland. "It was a tight game, and both teams had many chances to win, but we showed a lot of heart." 
Trailing 11-10 at the half, Strategic switched out of its zone to a man-to-man set, capi­talizing for a 19-16 lead. 
Strategic helped Bullseye's cause with numerous missed free throws down the stretch, and Brendan Tully and John Neal sparked the comeback. 
Trailing 20-19, Strategic switched back to the zone and cut off Tully's forays to the mid­dle. After the teams exchanged baskets, Strategic's Jeff Biever hit a runner in the lane, fol­lowed by a Kevin Eastland free throw to seal the victory. 
Games to watch today include the battle ofunderappreciated sophomore teams Unfrozen Caveman and Showtime at 4:00 on Stepan 6, a contest of two balanced teams which rely on sharp passing in The Hood River Bandits vs. Malicious Prosecution at 4:00 on Stepan 5. 
MADELEVA 
A WOMAN OF FAITH, STRENGTH & WISDOM 

Sister Mary Madelevo Wulff, CSC 
Educator of Wom~n 

Past President of Saint Mary's College Notre Dam~, Indiana 
Founder of the First School of Theology 
for 

Women in the United States 
Nationally Known Poet <:~nd Author 
A Pictorial Biogrnphy 
by Maria Assrmtn Werner, CSC 

Over 300 page.", sort cover-S19.95 
(Piea.rr include $2.50 jtJr JHI.<.:Iagt and handlint.) 
Make checks payable to: 
Madeleva-W~rn~r 
Saint Mary's • Box n Nntr~ Dam~. Indiana 46556 
page 12 
Catalino 
continued from page 16 
with or without the knowledge of the entire team, is grounds for disqualification, the rescheduling of games to accommodate the football play­ers involved in the tournament was also a point of contention. 
"Had we not been playing football players, this wouldn't have amounted to a hill of beans," said Catalino's Dennis Barnes. "The fact that Bookstore shut down because of the football schedule shows how important they are in the minds of the campus." 
"The rules state that all deci­sions by the commissioners are final," added Hall. "It seems the same discretion they exer­cised in rescheduling many of the games could have been used in our case." 
To Coming From Behind, however, the extenuating cir­cumstances behind the football scheduling separated it from the other incident. 

"I think both teams knew the rules coming in, and they were the ones that broke them," said Travis Krahl of Coming From Behind. "The football players did not know about the changes, or else we would have tried to notify people earlier." 
Lost in the controversy was an upset that will never find its way into Bookstore history. 
"We would like to wish the best of luck to Coming From Behind," stated Catalino cap­tain Mark Mallory. "There are no hard feelings." 
"I have to give the commis­sioners credit as well," Hall said. "They allowed us the opportunity to give our side." 
On a day when the top seeds finally were tested, other upsets were upheld. The highest seed to fall was No. 5 Bullseye Discount Liquor, which was upended by a tenacious Strategic Deterrence squad 23­21 in a thrilling, see-saw game. 
"We were definitely sur­prised, since no one expected 
... 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Notre Dame Opera Workshop presents 
Wolfgang .9Lmaaeus Mozart's 
%e Marriage of :Figaro 
Garry Grice, Director 
Friday and Saturday April 22 & 23, 1994 8:00p.m. 
Washington Hall 
Come enjoy the FUN; it's FREE!
Valparaiso University Presents 
VIOLENT FEMMES 
Athletics-Recreation Center -Valparaiso University Thursday, April 21 • 8:00pm 

Doors Open At 7:00 pm Tickets are available now through Ticket-MaJner by calling (312) 559-1212 in Illinois and (219) 272-7979 in Indiana at prices of $18, $15, and $12. Tickets may also be purchased at the Valparaiso University Ticket Office (219) 464-523 3. 
The Rites of Spring For 
Juniors 
• 
Bookstore Basketball 

• 
Christmas In April 

• 
Blue-Gold Game 

• 
Resume Submitted To Career and Placement Office For Database and Resume Books 




ou are cor znvzte 
The Hammes 
Notre Dame Books 
om Morris 
celebrating his latest book: 
''TRUE SUCCESS'' 


Wednesday, April 20th 3:30pm -4:30pm 
Monday-Saturda 9:00A.M. -5:00 P.M. 
Wednesday, April 20, 1994 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
early lead with runs in the first inning. This time, the cushion was three runs as the Irish boosted their record to 22-8. 
With one out in the first in­ning, Robby Birk singled and came home on Robbie Kenfs 11th double of the year. George Restovich (2-for-4, 3 RBI) mus­cled a check-swing single into left field to bring Kent home and then came home on Paul Failla's RBI single for the 3-0 lead. 
Purdue got its only run of the game in the second inning as Boilermaker third baseman Rick Galle took Price's first pitch of the inning deep for a home run to right field. 
In the fourth, the Irish put five more runs on the score­board with a two-out rally. After Ryan Topham walked, Dennis Twombley singled and Greg Layson walked to load the bases. With two outs, Kent (2­for-4, 2 RBI) added another RBI to his team-leading total with a single to score Topham and keep the bases loaded. 
Restovich furthered the rally with a two-run single that left runners on the corners for Mike Amrhein. The freshman out­fielder (2-for-3, 2 RBI) drilled a two-run double into left field to give the Irish an 8-1 lead head­ing into the fifth inning. 
The Irish defense continued to improve as several players turned in solid performances. 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Topham helped Tom Price get out of a bases loaded jam in the fifth inning by snagging two fly balls in right field including a leaping catch against the wall and helped reliever A.J. Jones out of a ninth inning bases loaded situation with another running catch. 
Birk prevented another po­tential Purdue run in the bot­tom of the eighth. With a run­ner on third, Birk, falling back­ward, pulled in the third out on the warning track in center­field. 
Jones closed the game by holding Purdue scoreless on two hits in two innings. 
Chris Bloomer took the loss for the Boilermakers after giv­ing up eight runs on 10 hits in just 3-2/3 innings of work. 
est selection of ND hats in Iars SORIN ROOM ' 
in the LaFortune Student Center 
Two days only! 
Fri., April22 11 am -7pm Sat., April 23 9am -8pm 


The Observer/Jake Peters Irish shortstop Paul Failla leans away from an inside pitch. 
Crosstown rival Bethel awaits Belles softball 
KARA MASUCCI 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team defends their 20-6 record this afternoon in a double­header against crosstown rival Bethel College. 
"We did well against them last year, but we haven't heard much about them this year. They always play strong against us because we are rivals," stated Stacey Bogataj. 
The Belles have had two games canceled this past week due to rain, so they have limit­ed their preparation for today to practices and a loss to North Central on Saturday. 
"We won the first game 3-0, but lost the second 10-1. We shouldn't have lost it. We beat ourselves with mental errors," said sophomore Maria Vogel. 
"We let down our guard and let mental errors take over," stated coach Don Kromer. 
In order to get ready for Bethel, Kromer has jacked up the Belles practice strength. 
"Practice intensity was increased this last week. We hit 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
live more, and worked on the individual aspects that are needed," said Melissa Novak. 
Acc.ording to the Belles, it is not only hitting and fielding that need to be improved in order to get the team back on the winning track, but mental preparation. 
"We were very anxious to play North Central because all of our games last week got can­celed, but we were shaky in the second game," stated Vogel. 
"We need to get our hitting to come around [today], but also our mental. We need to stay focused for both games," added Vogel. 
"We just got sick of the rain last week and wanted to play, but we were mentally not into both games. I think this game will be different, though," said Bogataj. 
"Laura Richter [who was out this past week due to an ankle injury] just got released form the doctor, so we have our old line-up back. This will get everyone's mind back to the way it was [before her injury]," she added. 
._.RecSports.\ViUhe•prr~~g~F:!' 'SJ)at;~i nY~l!Jlltted. 1 11
r:_.~--~---·-··--~-•__;__ n_._~~·~__r_-_o_·~_ _ _--_·-_ •____ --k0_i_ -___-·_-_--__ ··-~_-_.:> --'Ufl!i~of;~lw~:;,ar~~­
----_--, ___----.---_----·---------._--_------._-_-____ __--_-_· ___ ftt_-___ -_o_---_·_-·_n_---·••--_-_.__1_,-_t-11_-_---·-.··_B__ r_act_---•-n_·­
m__ -._-__-_t __ w_-_-_-__ ____

~~yi('* saff)ty, apd plH}.$12\f).... ------·--___ . , _ _____ --.__ . __ --__ -_ 
technique~ movellie d baF ancf), All parttpi __ _____ ____ hayi'l tompletedth ···.· ·.. eSpott$ wall-Climbing odetitatio_n ses~
··.····.··················· ·.······ ·············. ·.· ·······•···············.·.· , ····-··· 
}\nyone.interestad tn shuttle­
-•. tQGP~ call Brad.Ptirker at 631~ 1755for.~D$~·... ·· ·· about the . No~~ J:)at;lle B n Club. 
,IIW6men!& i Lacro&&e 

~oday afJ 
·~Bring Jet~ 
·:~u~zi!~~~~i~~TI\~:;·_~; 

If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 631-5323 



page 14 
One down, two to go. The 16th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis'team 
NIU next challenge for Irish softball 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sporu Wrirer 
Notre Dame softball coach Liz Miller hopes the right team shows up. 
When the Irish take the field today for a double-header at Northern Illinois, Miller hopes it is the same team that played the second game of Sunday's double-header against Ball State, a convincing 2-0 win. 
She doesn't want to see the team who trudged through a win at Butler Saturday and then dropped the first game to Ball State 5-0 Sunday, commit­ting three errors and earning just three hits in what Miller called a "lackluster" perfor­mance. 
"We always show up for games; I think we're always ready to play, " Miller says. "Sometimes we don't come ready to win. I think that was clear this weekend. We strug­gled because we didn't come prepared to win." 
Miller thinks the Irish will have to be very prepared for Northern Illinois. 
Even though the Huskies have posted an 11-18 record thus far this season, like Notre Dame they participated in two spring break tournaments in the South and struggled against more prepared oppo­nents. 
NIU is perennially one of the toughest softball teams in the Midwest, and Miller is looking forward to the test. 
"NIU is a good softball pro­gram. They are always at the top of their conference and among the top ten in the re­gion, " Miller says. "Since they will be joining the MCC next season, this gives us a chance to see where we stand in the future of our con­ference." 
Notre Dame's standing in the present of the MCC will be test­ed this Friday when second­place Loyola comes to Ivy Field for a 3:30 p.m. double-header. 
The Irish are currently first in the conference with a 6-0 record in and a 27-14 overall. Junior catcher Sara Hayes leads the league with a .391 batting average, nine home runs and 35 RBI and Terri Kobata's 197 strikeouts is tops in the MCC, while her 1.06 ERA is second. 
INJURY REPORT: Senior pitcher Carrie Miller will be re­evaluated tonight by team doc­tors to determine the likeli­hood of her returning to the team. Miller suffered a stress fracture in her leg in early March, and was originally feared to be out for the season. 
Sophomore utility infielder Andrea Kollar has been cleared to return May 1. 
itale at J~:i 

':tNt; Crabtreeand senior Lisa Tholen were victorious at No. 1 doubles, defeating Smith and Jennie Salisbury 6-1. 6-2, while Faustmann and Lord defeated ,,,Okoraf(m_and Libby Vote at tinior '''' No.2 doUbles. (/,,_,., .J,:rl:iil!*f+; 
Getting an eaFl!«$ 


22nd Birl»day,
L()ve, 
b 


Mother, R.Q,bert, Michael, & ,,r•nn.fm
'.-· ./ • l 
Wednesday, April 20, 1994 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications 
Columnists needed 
If you are studying abroad next year and you want to write a 
onthly feature column about your respective country for the new 
bserver Entertainment Magazine, please call Bevin Kovalik or 
ave Tyler at 1-4541. Anything goes: culture, fashion music, social ife, strange celebrations, etc. 
invites all 
graduating seniors and 
students studying abroad 
next year to a send-off 
Wednesday, April20 
7:15pm 
in the Keenan-Stanford/Stanford-Keenan Chapel 

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! 
ORDERS MAY NOW BE PLACED FOR YOUR CLASS RINGS 
Orders may be placed in the Ring Office Wednesday april 20th -Friday May 6th from 9 am. 4:30pm. 
The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" Open Monday through Saturday 9 am. -5 pm. 
page 15

Wednesday, April 20, 1994 The Observer • TODAY JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
SPELUNKER 
ON 1llt RoP£5 IN 1\-letR Bl1"f£RNESS SURG€5 FROM 
FINAL CoNFLICT, HIH1K HANKS fiiJBCOt-IOOVS., RE­TI'\Ps INTO ALL OF nlE NEW IN~ THE VIGOR BITTERNESS HE'S R£· OF HIS SINE(,(/5 
PRESSED BECAUSE OF 
FR051RmlON M r<E­
J€C11DN-MAN'S HPrND. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~1'\'iW~'i Glf>..RU£, I'M 9:>RR'i 
WE QJIJL\lt-ft GO OJ\ TO~\GI-\T, 
8\JT T\-\15 UTILE CREEP's 
PI>IR't~IS fl.Rt.. ~ 'i:£5?t'RJ>..It. 
To G£1 1\W~'{ ~~ 1-\\M ~CE 
IN f>.. 't\i\\LE 1\-\f..T -rnf'< ... 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
\-\11 I ON<E. I>~A"\E.O IN !\ No,.-Q.£ "i::>f\roE. FooTBALL C:Jp.m'-. .' 
ACROSS 28 Nostalgic song 57 Isaac's mother for cows? 
58 Pierre's

1 "Major Barbara" 
33 Greenstreet's breakfast choice 

playwright 
frequent co-star 59 Cheer (for) 

5 Sierra Club 
34 Monk's hood &1 Blazing

founder John 35 Flag 62 In addition
9 Phrygian king 36 Neighbor of Afr. &3 Author Vidal 
14 Per capita 37 Bluish-gray cat 64 Sales prospects 
15-facto 40 Famous diarist 
&5Morethan

1&"Have­
misled

day!" 41 Beginning 
&& Tom Joad, e.g. 
(then)

17 Proctor's cry at the end of a test 43 Harness part 18 Pierce 44 Desert plant DOWN 19 Coast 46 Rex Stout's 
1 Gel 
canine sleuth? 

20 Imprisoned 
2 Reagan 

feline's call? 48 Disclaimer 
Secretary of 23 Cornucopia 49 Kind of shot State 
24 "Star-Spangled 50 Temperament 3WileE. Banner" Coyote's supply 
51 Kind of contraction relationship for company 25 Avaricious crows? 4lf 51990 Kathy Bates film ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE & Author Sinclair 7" ... ere­Elba" a Kind of cop 9 Old word for a harasser 10 Get by will 11 Parisian house of design 12 Plat portion 13 Comment before "I told you so" 21 Computer add-on 22 Cons 25 Learn through research 

500N, HE'S DRft/NJNb, UN FOR1UNAitt.'(, HANKS 7H£ CAMPtJS,VSHERIN!i) W/NDS·\JP fiN A\3SVRP IN 1'\ N£W ERr'\ OF GROTE.SQ\JeR-{, 
LOVE. &Tol£RANC€ 
BILL WATTERSON 

GEl CliT tilE,  SJVPENPOV5  
CAL'JlN, 'iOIJ  MAN HAS lf.IE  
lt'ST.' OW!  SfREN~\1-l OF  
\.IT \::JJ.'  f>..  111\Ll\01-t  
QJIT \1!  MoR\Al ME~!  
GWE IJP.'  
DAVE KELLETT  

Look T'A~­{\, ~ T LAM( IN Fol'l WAS 
A"BE<:.R.. 

2&Awaken  45 Experience  53 Holiday season  
27 Goof  47 Fancies  54 Takeout shop  
28 Pattern 29 TV lawyer-­Marshall  48 Tipped, in a way 50 Verdun's river  55 Kitchener 56 Actress Spelling  
30 Leonardo's hometown  51 Eatery  57 Former baseball  
31 Author Jong  52 Kathleen Battle  all-star Banda  
32 Of the kidneys  offering  &o Driver's aid  
34 Singer Laine  

38 Whiff 

Get answers to any three clues 
39"-newt ..." 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
42 Word before 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
march 


Graffiti in hell 
OF INTEREST 

DINING HALL • 

Justafraction what we spendon 
sports can help keep societym shape 
It's so easy to help your ,-five hours of volunteer time 
commimity, when you think per week the standard of 
about it. . giving in America. 
Millions of people have G• v, Get involved with the helped make five percent IVe.I'IVe. causes you care about of their incomes and Wlrut ywll<f~''''"'"'"b'•· and give five. 
INDIVIDUAL GIVING/VOLUNTEERING CAMAAIGN NEWSPAPER AD NO.IGV-89·1493-2 COL. 

Webster's Collegiate Dictionary defines ... 
Zero= Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically 
Drink: to take liquid into the mouth for swallowing; to take in or suck up; 
dependent, on certain medications, 
excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages 

ZER® 
or pregnant.

Drank: past of drink Drunk: having the faculties impaired by alcohol; drinking to the point of intoxication 
One = One drink per hour, which 
Intoxication: an abnormal state that is essentially a poisoning Vomit: an act or instance of disgorging the contents of the stomach through the mouth; sets the pace for moderate drinking. to spew forth; to eject violently or abundantly (i.e. when you drink, and drink, 
e)N8
and drink until the flow of fluids reverse) AND Sensible: having, containing, or indicative of good sense or reason Responsible: able to answer for one's conduCt and obligations; able to choose for 
THR:i:l Three= No more than three drinks 
oneself between right and wrong; see also Zero-One-Three 
per day, and never daily. 
If you have any questions, please call the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, April 20, 1994 

Trouble. • • 
'Hoosier' provides nothing but for opposing teams 
By BRYAN 
Whether it be CONNOLLY through interhall, pick-up, or in particu­
Assistant Sports Editor 
lar Bookstore Basketball, he has dis­

He's known by most tinguished himself as
as "Hoosier". one the most talented
The nickname came 
rather innocently. While playing bas­ketball behind Zahm Hall during his first day at Notre Dame, one of his eventual teammates accused him of . looking like one of the stars of the movie "Hoosiers", and upon realizing that he was a resident of the great state Indiana his friends saw to it that Kris Winningham was to be known first and foremost as "Hoosier" for the remainder of his collegiate career. 
Since that fateful first day, however, Winningham has done much more on basketball courts across campus than acquire nicknames. 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
If Pat Murphy wants to beat Purdue, his best bet is to put Tom Price on the mound. 
Tuesday's 8-1 victory was the fourth time the senior lefthander has beaten Purdue in the last three years. His Irish career record against the Boil­ermakers now stands at 4-0 after allowing just one run on six hits while striking out four in seven inning on the mound. 
"I've had a successful career against them," said 
Price. "They came out with a plan because they've seen me so much. They were looking for my fastball away. That's why he hit the home run. 
"I made the adjustment to go fastball in first and then move outside." 
The Boilermakers shouldn't feel too bad because Price has been effective against everyone this year. 
Tonight's win moved Price ahead of Chris Michalak on the Irish all­time win list with 35 victo­ries. On the year, he is 8-2, but his record is not his best statistic. 

and team-oriented competitors on campus and as a player who carries himself with an unrivaled sense of sportsmanship. 
Currently enrolled in Notre Dame's graduate business program, Winningham surrounded himself during his undergraduate years with a team consisting of his best friends. Known as Bitter for the past three Bookstore tournaments, Winningham and his squad reached the Round of 16 each year yet consistently found itself walk­ing away empty handed after the first 
see HOOSIER I page 10 

In Trouble . • • 
Illegal player costs Catalino an upset 


Price pummels Purdue 
• 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Rules are rules. 
Law students above all un­derstand this precept, practically basing their existence around it. It is ironic that a talented group of law students would be the ones disqualified for breaking the rules after the biggest upset of the Bookstore tournament. 
Catalina, an unseeded team of primarily law school students, stunned the No. 2 seed Coming 

Price has pitched 73.3 innings this year and has only walked two batters. He throws strikes and chal­lenges the hitters to respond. Either the hitter makes contact or he strikes out. 
"He's effective against everyone, but especially aggressive hitting teams," explained coach Pat Murphy. "He's gotten the opportunity to pitch against Purdue a lot and done well against them." 
As they have done in the last four games, the Irish hitters gave their pitcher an 

From Behind II 21-13 last night on the Stepan Courts. 
However, the elation of victory was short-lived as Catalino was accused of using an illegal player, one that had played on another team earlier in the tournament. 
After consultation among the commissioners and the teams involved, it was admitted that, unbeknownst to the other players on Catalina, one of their team­mates had played for someone else in a previous round. 
"We respect that the commis­sioners have a job to do, and there is no doubt that we broke the rules," stated Catalina player Gary Hall. "However, there was definitely an injustice done to the four players who were unaware." 
"The rules allow the commis­sioners to exercise discretion in other places," continued Hall. "That same discretion should not penalize the other four players." 
While there is no denying that Catalina's use of an illegal player, 
see CATALINO I page 12 


