

Wednesday, March 30, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 115 THE INDEPENDENT--NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Buckley slams liberalism, Clinton 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI philosophically mischievous," News Writer said Buckley. He attributed the public's focus on social 
William Buckley, one of the fairness to "surrealistic execu­deans of American conser­tive salaries." vatism, took the podium at "What is fairness?" Buckley Stepan center last night to asked. "Fairness gives way to offer "Reflections on Current a democratic (principle) known Contentions," reflections fo­as the market. The market is­cused on the Clinton White n't interested in fairness any­House as well as health care more than eugenics is inter­and welfare reform. ested in equal distribution of 
Throughout the lecture, beauty." Buckley, in his trademark New Buckley then applied his rea­England accent and rich soning to business. "The rhetoric, commented on and shareholders who authorize analyzed traditional liberal $20 million for Mr. Gates (Bill ideals, ideals which he says Gates, chief executive of the lead to faulty political policies. multi-billion dollar Microsoft He also offered an explanation Corporation) figure they are for President Clinton's popu­better off," he said. "Any given larity. board of directors might be 
Clinton, said Buckley, pos­dumb to think their executives sesses a great deal of energy deserve such salaries, but and enthusiasm, "as if every that's their problem." few minutes he was coming Government spending to fix down to look under the social problems is not a viable Christmas tree." solution for Buckley. "Society 
"It is my sense," Buckley has acknowledged a concern said, "that, notwithstanding his with those who can't pay their shifts" in policy, Clinton "has own way," he said. Buckley the political appeal of JFK. added, however, that during This impression works mira­the 1992 presidential cam­cles on television." But, paign, when welfare reform Buckley later added, "Clinton's was a primary issue, "none of appetite for glib falsifications the candidates suggested that leaves Americans frustrated." these individuals should look to 
Buckley first focused on the private (institutions)." faults of President Clinton's "In May 1991, the Los health care plan. To Buckley, Angeles riots ... were a prima­the plan is just another exam­ry concern," said Buckley. The ple of the liberal desire to rologists call "grandiosity." the public is yearning for is concern, he noted, was what to invest more power into the "At the far extreme, you will portability," health coverage do to quell the social decay of government. "The safest bet in proclaim yourself Napoleon," that goes with the holder "from South Central Los Angeles. town," he said, "is the greater said Buckley. "Back off from job to job, that stays with you "Do what?" he asked. "Fund the power of government, the that a bit, and you will refuse in sickness and in health." its revitalization." lesser the power of the individ­to sign a bill that ..." The Clinton's health plan, like his "California doesn't need ual." audience's laughter kept him other policies, revolves around money," he said. Buckley 
Buckley said Clinton's refusal from finishing the sentence. the liberal notion of social fair­pointed out that for every dol­to sign a health care bill that "Napoleonic thinkers ... are ness, according to Buckley. lar California receives from the gives every American universal not distracted by ambient real­"The issue of fairness is eco­coverage is a sign of what neu-ity," Buckley went on. "What nomically impoverished and see BUCKLEY I page 4 


Childs pushes for 
activism 
By MAUREEN CURlS News Writer 
Society must encourage ac­tion and dedication towards the planet and ourselves, Greenpeace activist Christopher Childs told an audience in Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium last night. 
In his lecture entitled "Making Waves," Childs relat­ed Greenpeace's principles of non-violence and bearing wit­ness to truth to the Quaker religion. Childs described the history and present circum­stances of the international environmental organization that accepts responsibility for being aware of injustices, and then acting. 
Child's metaphysical ap­proach echoed within his statements while he showed slides of the harsh battles that Greenpeace volunteers contin­ually face. Despite all this, "If you genuinely open your doors to destiny, it will come in," he said. 
"I want you to walk out of here tonight with a clearer dedication to your own mis­sion, to your own purpose," explained Childs, "even if it's simply being a musician, because everything you do is going to contribute to the ful­fillment of the vision of the future of this planet." 
Greenpeace burst onto the international scene after applying the provocative tac­
see CHILDS I page 4 



ND/SMC panel examines "The Dating Game" 
By JENNIFER ABBATE cialize. For instance, fraterni­News Writer ties and sororities provide many social events every week­
A panel of six students dis­end. It gets students out of the cussed the dating scene and dorms and helps them meet male and female relations on new people. the two campuses in "The Dating Game," a forum held in It is hard for students to do Saint Mary's Haggar Parlor last different things since Notre night as a part of Sexual Dame and Saint Mary's are iso­Assault Awareness Week. lated from South Bend. There is 
Led by Notre Dame psychol­no enjoyable place for students ogy professor Dr. Tom to walk to easily in the absence Merluzzi, the panel shared their a car. When students can get views about the most common off campus, there is really no social event on both campuses, place for them to go. the SYR. Following the "Screw Your Roommate" tradition, In order for students to get people are usually set up on into the bars, they have to be dates by their roommates for 21. In other university towns, dorm dances. the age to get into a bar is 18 or 
19, said panelist St!icey Jones. 
The panel agreed that these Students are not looking to dances are fun. Unfortunately, become intoxicated every week­SYR's are often the only reason end; they just want a place to people date. Notre Dame stu­go, said Jones .. dent Megan Heyward, a student on the panel, said that the SYR From their observations of is "a time for social interaction. social lives at other universities, Dating is Obscure at Notre members of the panel com­Dame." mented on how casual dating is 
Hence students are supposed infrequent at Notre Dame and to socialize when they are at Saint Mary's. these dances, the panel con­cluded. Yet, for many students, campus parties and SYR's are As a result of this, many stu­Saint Mary's. At other college "Usually, you have a few SYR's are a poor alternative to packed into a room as they con­dents find themselves wishing campuses, members of the friends who get serious with what normally takes place ev­sume as much alcohol as they for more of a variety social ac­panel observed, there were ery weekend at ND. People at can. tivities at both Notre Dame and more ways students could so-see DATING I page 4 The Obsever/Cynthia Exconde From left, Megan Heywood, Stacy Jones, Sam Rauch, and Michelle Cummings from Notre Dame, and Ann Lyle of Saint Mary's discussed relations between students of the two colleges last night. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March 30, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
SMC needs to expand
•


service center 
The need to take on some sort of service pro­ject has been on my mind lately. Maybe it is the time of year, or better yet, a new consciousness that is taking precedence in my life. 
The urge became stronger yesterday as I Elizabeth Regan passed the Center for Saint Mary's Editor Social Concerns (CSC) on my way to the Observer. It occurred to me then that there is no similar landmark to remind me of the need for service on my own campus -unless of course you count the Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer Center (S.U.R.V.) office tucked away on the third floor of Haggar College Center. 
S.U.R.V. is a student run service center. The key words here are "student run." Like most student run organizations, despite the great efforts made by a few select students, prob­lems are inevitable. 
Please don't misunderstand me, S.U.R.V. does a very good job at accessing service pro­jects with the resources that they have. It can­not be helped that their office is only open for a few sporadic hours each day-after all, stu­dents must go to class. 
The CSC has a full time staff that provides a consistency from year to year that is not main­tained for Saint Mary's students through 
S.U.R.V. Although opportunities for service are provided, they change from year to year depending mainly on the student co-ordinator. The coordinator is generally a senior and when she leaves, her replacement starts again at square one. 
A small group of concerned students have begun meeting in the hopes of building upon the service center at Saint Mary's. They are in the midst of proposing that a full-time staff and relocation to the basement of Holy Cross Hall will not only help students fulfill their personal need for service, but it will also help the College better fulfill its mission statement regarding service. 
These students are appealing to the adminis­tration, the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and most importantly to the student body. 
They are asking for a new and improved 
S.U.R.V. that would focus mainly on service projects involving women and children. They are also proposing that it be staffed by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, in order to keep close ties with the order. 
The students are prepared to find grant money to help fund the more costly, but much needed, organization. 
Student support for this center is essential. It is obvious through participation in hall and mass service projects that Saint Mary's stu­dents are more than willing to serve. Many students also use the esc when looking for ser­vice projects merely because of its established programs. 
There is a great need for an expanded ser­vice center at Saint Mary's College. As a 

Victory likely to change business of politics in Italy 
ROME 
The powers-that-have-been in Italian politics are in for major changes after a stunning victory by Silvio Berlusconi's conservative-right coalition in elections for Parliament. 
Final results Tuesday give his alliance a majority in the Chamber of Deputies and a lead three seats shy of a majority in the upper Senate. The coalition mem­bers now begin negotiating to try to form a government. 
The promise of tax cuts, privatization and incentives to private businesses has shaken many who depend on the state for their living or influence. 
The allies are the pro-autonomy Northern League, which dominates the wealthier north and advocates federal­ism; the neo-fascist rooted National Alliance; and Berlusconi's Forza Italia (Let's Go, Italy), a party of small business owners, political newcomers and yup­pies. 
Their victory gives Italian politics its first new look after almost 50 years of domination by the U.S.-and Vatican­backed Christian Democrats and their allies. 
If Berlusconi comes to power, his pro­gram of deep tax cuts, p,rivatizing health care and pension plans, rapid sell-offs of 


AP/Can Fox 
Peace accords signed in Guatemala 

MEXICO CITY 
Guatemalan government and rebel leaders signed three breakthrough agreements Tuesday aimed at ending more than three decades of civil war in the strife-torn Central American nation. The accords do not end Latin America's longest-running armed conflict between leftist rebels of the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG) and the Guatemalan army. But they showed the long­stalled talks were back on track, said a U.S. official, and the two sides said they hope to reach a final cease-fire by the end of the year. The accords provide for an "imme­diate" verification of human rights violations by a mis­sion of unarmed U.N. monitors, and for the involvement of civilian groups in the peace process. The two sides also have agreed to a timetable for points yet to be resolved, including a commission to investigate war crimes. Some 120,000 people have been killed and an estimated 100,000 driven into exile during the war. 
Former RI Gov. DiPrete, son indicted 

PROVIDENCE 
Former Gov. Edward DiPrete was indicted today on 23 state felony charges he took nearly $300,000 in bribes in exchange for state contracts. His 35-year-old son, Dennis, was indicted on similar charges. DiPrete, a Republican who served as governor from January 1985 to January 1991, was accused of soliciting and accepting bribes worth more than $294,000 from architects, engi­neers and developers in exchange for state contracts, Attorney General Jeff Pine said. He and his son were also accused of lying in hearings before the Rhode Island Ethics Commission. DiPrete was defeated by the current governor, Bruce Sundlun, in 1990. The former governor was not available for comment; he did not return a tele­phone call to his home seeking comment. Two lawyers for the former governor said they knew nothing about the indictments today. 
INDIANA Weather 
Wedne<>day, March 30 
Accu-Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 01994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
state industry and strict adherence to the rules of the marketplace could cause unrest among unions and lower-and mid­dle-class people who depend on public ben­efits. 
All three members of the new right-wing coalition have come to the fore mainly because of Italians' disgust with the disclo­sures of the "Mani Pulite" (Clean Hands) investigation. The probe exposed the sys­tematic corruption of Italy's political and business elite. 
Corruption found fertile ground in a soci­ety where parties dominated nearly every institution, from publicly held banks to opera houses, from huge state conglomer­ates to public hospitals, from universities to theaters. 
Voters rejected the former Communists, now called the Democratic Party of the Left, and their support for central govern­ment control and the social welfare state. 
Conservative newspapers implied the old regime made a final gesture Monday, hours before the returns came in. 
The government of Premier Carlo Ciampi awarded the license for a cellular tele­phone network to a consortium led by Olivetti chairman Carlo De Benedetti, cho­sen over Berlusconi's Fininvest and Fiat. 
"The Last Rip-Off," read a headline in the Rome daily II Tempo. 
.Ar!~ht·wlng coalitlpn 
con\llOll(!d 91 SUvfQ ...... 
Bartusconi's Forza. nalia 
(let'$ Go, Italy), lhe auto 
minded Northern League
neo-fascist Nall¢nal Allian 
!he leftist bloc in parliam 
elections. · 
Chamber of Deputie · {630 seats)* . ······••·.· 
•one seat not assigned···· · 
Centrist Other · alliance 
Cowboy coach Jimmy Johnson fired 
IRVING, Texas 
Dallas Cowboys coach Jimmy Johnson~-­
severed his tempestuous five-year rela­tionship with team owner Jerry Jones on Tuesday, giving up his job and a chance to win an unprecedented third-straight Super Bowl. Johnson and Jones met for two days before announcing the decision together at the Cowboys'headquarters. Jones and Johnson have feuded regular­ly since Jones bought the Nationalw....----"~--'-------"~ Football League team in 1989, fired coach Tom Landry, and hired Johnson. It boiled over last week when Jones belittled Johnson's coaching abilities and told reporters he wanted to hire someone else. "This boiled down to a personal thing between Jimmy and Jerry," said Cowboys defensive coordinator Butch Davis, a possible successor. "It was nothing about football, it was nothing about man­agement. This was personal." 
Paratroops honored at farewell service 
FORT BRAGG, N.C. 
More than 3,500 soldiers and civilians jammed a gym­nasium and stood outside during a memorial service Tuesday for 23 paratroopers killed in a military plane crash last week. The accident happened March 23 when two planes collided on their approach to Pope Air Force Base, adjacent to Fort Bragg, and one of the planes, an F-16 fighter, crashed and burned, skidding into a staging area where paratroopers were preparing for a daylight jump and injuring 83. The fighter crew safely ejected. The casualty toll was the highest for the division in a sin­gle incident since the Battle of the Bulge in World War II. Regimental commanders of the soldiers who were killed like Lt. Col. Stanley McCrystal praised their valor in try­ing to rescue others even after they sustained severe burns. "Normally great, in adversity they were magnifi­cent," McCrystal said 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 30. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assoc1ated Press 
Atlanta 62 40 Denver 61 28 New York 51 33 Baltimore 57 33 Houston 67 41 Philadelphia 54 30 Boston 50 30 Los Angeles 72 55 Phoenix 83 59 Chicago 51 27 Miami 78 68 St. Louis 59 30 Colomb us 50 25 Minneapolis 49 29 San Francisco 69 50 Dallas 66 36 New Orleans 66 46 Seattle 61 45 
----------------~-­
Wednesday, March 30, 1994 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 



Numbers of poor on rise 
ByKARASPAK 
News Writer 
Dr. John Kasarda of Univer­sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill defined the problem of the working poor yesterday at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Presenting results based on survey samples of over 10 mil­lion files,· Kasarda attempted to define what particular ethnic, gen­der, and fami­ly structure groups made up the work­ing poor, and to delineate Kasarda where the problems with the working poor are centralized. 
With a shrinking middle class and a greater polarization of wages, the growing class of working poor has become par­ticularly topical in the last 10 to 15 years. According to Kasarda, the majority of jobs created since the late 1970's have been "low wage and of dubious quality and increas­ingly assumed by minorities, women, and white males." 

Kasarda's statistics about the working poor may lend cre­dence to his assertion that "workfare," a much talked about but little attempted alter­native to welfare, might not be sufficient to pull families out of poverty. 
Measurement of the working poor is neither "neat nor clean," according to Kasarda, who presented the problem of accurately defining the working poor. Kasarda has revised the Bureau of Labor Statistics defi­nition of the working poor to "Persons 16 and over who worked at least 27 weeks in the previous year, who usually 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ·:on the campus" Open Monday-Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
worked at least 20 hours a week, and who lived in families whose incomes fell below the official poverty line." 
Kasarda delineated that about 3.8 million working poor lived in the United States in 1990. Since 1980, virtually no growth has occurred in the working poor for whites or blacks, while Asian groups and especially the Hispanic working poor have grown significantly. 
When gender and race are considered in determining who the working poor are, both white and black male numbers have dropped since 1980, while both white and black female working poor numbers have risen. Both male and female Hispanics have seen their num­ber of working poor drastically rise. 
"7 .5 percent of all workers are Hispanic while 16.7 percent of the working poor are His­panic," reported Kasarda, pre­senting a disturbing variation. 
Regionally, the South is the most unequally distributed area of the country based on the working poor. Mississippi is the. state with the highest per­centage of working poor, 7.8 percent, while Connecticut has the lowest percentage, with 1.0. 
These numbers are limited, points out Kasarda, as they fail to include different rates of liv­ing as well as different levels of public assistance in different regions of the country. 
Kasarda's presentation was the third segment of the ongo­ing six-part Paul and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series on Working and Poor in Urban America, sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters. 
ATIENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SoPHOMORES 
Ifyou are interested in serving on tlie Co((ege of~usiness .9Ldministration Co(fege Counci' p(ease su6mit your resume and a (etter ofrecommendation from a ~.9L facu(ty mem6er to: 
~ 

Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio Room 132 Hayes-Healy Center 
no (ater tfian .9Lpri( 8, 1994 
A Llfb.. C11Vb..N TO T.Llb.. POOQ 
Iii  Are you a single, Catholic woman?  
0  Are you independent and full of life?  
0  Are you committed to a simple lifestyle?  

If you are, call Sr. Margaret Hoffelder (219-422-6675) to imagine together how your life and ours might join in service to the world's poor and disenfranchised. 

--~----~ -----~--------·--~ --· 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 30, 1994 

The Exconde Greenpeace activist Christopher Childs addressed students at Saint Mary's Carroll auditorium yesterday evening, challenging them to act against injustices done to the Earth. 
Merluzzi said. Having males and females share a common lounge area would alleviate some of the awkwardness of female and male relationships. 
Seeing a male and female to­gether is not a big deal on other campuses. Not so at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Jim Sullivan described the awkward feeling he had when he first ate dinner at the Saint Mary's dining hall. 
"All I was doing was getting a different meal. It wasn't any­thing out of the ordinary except that I was one of three men out of eight hundred women." 
Relations between students of the two colleges were dis­cussed, as students described the common female stereotypes associated with both schools. 


Buckley 
continued from page 1 
government, a dollar and 20 ·cents goes back to Washington. 
"It's a basic axiom that 
money that comes from 
Washington is money you just 
sent to Washington," he said. 
Asked later if he had a work­
able solution to welfare reform, 
Buckley replied, "Yes. I'd elim­
inate it." A strong democracy 
relies on productive, self­
reliant individuals, he added, 
not those who manipulate the 
system. 
Buckley also said he believes 
Washington is more corrupt 
than it is has ever been. As a 
solution he would place term 
limits on members of Congress. 
One of his more radical ideas is 
to restrict voting rights to re­
sponsible individuals. 
It is "inexplicable" to Buckley 
that, in a recent survey of col­
lege students, two-thirds could 
not place the Civil War within 
50 years of its occurrence. 
"There's no way to face such 
evidence except to say the 
American educational system is 
getting worse," said Buckley. 
"Allocate the blame any way 
you wish." Young Americans, 
he said, must be prepared to 
uphold the responsibilities a 
democracy brings with it. 
Young people, especially those 
18 to 21 years old, must be told 
that "learning is desirable, and 
a democracy without learning 
is impossible to defend." 
"There's always a great deal 
to do to protect our democ­
racy," Buckley said in conclu­
sion. To him the future is not 
all that dim. 
Since the end of World War 
II, he said, the world has seen 
80 wars that resulted in 30 mil­
lion deaths. He also cited a re­
cent poll in Britain that shows 
49% of British citizens would 
leave the country if given the 
chance. 
"For all our failings," Buckley 
said, "the land is bright. Thank 
God for His benefactions to 
withstand electoral vicissi­
tudes." 
"A lot of guys think women at Notre Dame are too career-ori­ented, too hard working, not good looking, and cold," Sam Rauch said. "Guys think women at Saint Mary's are not quite so intelligent, are looser, and are maybe desperate." 
Rauch went on to say that this was unfortunate since he had found a lot of women at Notre Dame "beautiful" and a lot of "talented" women at Saint Mary's. 
"My perceptions have changed," panelist Michele Cummings added. 
Cummings said she believed the stereotypes about Saint Mary's women since that was what she was told. It was not until a good friend of hers from home attended Saint Mary's did she discover her error. 
"We have been done a seri­ous injustice by not being inte­grated with Saint Mary's women. They have the same thoughts and ideals that I do. They're just like we are," said Cummings. 
Both members of the panel and audience agreed that the stereotypes which exist on both campuses are best combated on an individual level. 
Meeting a person one on one and discussing these issues helps to eliminate the false stereotypes which can easily spread through word of mouth. 

Childs 
continued from page 1 
tics of direct action. "It might mean being dropped into the Antarctic ocean in front of a huge Japanese whaling vessel," Childs grimaced, "Just because you thought it was an important statement to make." 
Childs highlighted Greenpeace's campaigns to pro­tect the ecosystem, em­phasizing efforts in nuclear dis­armament, the promotion of "earth-safe" alternative tech­nologies and products, ozone depletion and global warming, toxic and hazardous waste, as well as environmental racism. 
"More and more of our bear­ing witness is in standing along­side ordinary communities, try­ing to be of some assistance to them as they fight to rid their communities of poisonous land­fills, incinerators, toxic indus­tries -assaults both to the physical system and to anyone's rightful sense of justice." 
"And for all of you who have been told that Greenpeace was founded by a bunch of long­haired, weird-bearded, freaky­hippie type people who did such strange things as going out and playing music to passing whales, you're right. That's how we started. But seriously, music becomes an act of re­spect, humans trying to speak something like the whales' lan­guage." 
Childs pointed to physical tri-

Come to an organizational meeting Wednesday at 8 p.m. outside The ObseiVer office, 314 LaFonune. For more information, call Bevin Kovalik or Dave Tyler at 1-4541. 



Transfer 8tudents 
Applications for Transfer Orientation Chairperson are now available in the Office of ~tudent Activities in LaFortune 
Applications due TODAY! 
)1[)ijj [?~[lliD00)9 lilliDr!lrB ~Q~ 

Happy Twenty-first, 
Love, Dad, Mom, M.L., John, and Nanny 


umphs of Greenpeace in the Childs asked those in atten­creation of a 50-year morato­dance to explore their souls. rium called "World Park Base" "Remember, I came here to ask to keep Antarctica unharmed you to ponder your own and in the support of a world­strength. And the planet realty wide ban on the use of driftnets, is waiting to see how many of sometimes 30 miles long that us will make the necessary sweeps anything living from the commitments to ourselves and sea. to the future," he said. 
MEDIEVAL DRAMA IN PERFORMANCE 
presents-
THE SUMMONING OF 






EVERYMAN 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 30 8PM 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
FREE ADMISSION 



Live Dinner Theater! 
Student Union Board is proud to present the Repertory Theater ofAmerica 
in NEIL SIMON'S 
The Star-Spangled Girl 
Thursday, April 7 
Dinner is serv¢ at 6:00 
at the LaFortune Ballroom 
Tickets available at the LaFortun~ InfoDesk March 28-April 3 ' Students: $8, General $15 Crazy --­stuff and more 


CASTING & ANGLING COURSE 
FIVE SESSIONS WEDNESDAYS 6:00-7:30 PM MARCH 30, APRIL 6, 13, 20 & 27 OPEN TO STUDENTS & STAFF $8.00 CLASS FEE 
EQUIPMENT PROVIDED BUT BRING OWN EQUIPMENT WHEN POSSIBLE 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE ATRECSPORTS FIRST CLASS TO BE HELD IN JACC ARENA 


631-6100 



By CHARLENE FU Associated Press 
BEIJING 
After apparently failing to win China's promise to inter­vene in a nuclear dispute with North Korea, South Korean President Kim Young-sam said Tuesday his country will try to resolve the situation through dialogue. 
Kim came to Beijing to urge China, North Korea's only ma­jor ally. to help defuse an in­creasingly tense standoff be­tween Pyongyang and the world over suspicions that 
0 

Wednesday, March 30, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
New set of false data haunts cancer report 
By PAUL RECER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Discovery of a second batch of falsified data has cast new doubts on a major cancer study, causing the National Cancer Institute to request that a re­searcher be fired and that no new patients be added to the research. 
The NCI announced Tuesday it was asking the University of Pittsburgh to replace Dr. Bernard Fisher as the director of the National Surgical and Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project, an $8 million study co­ordinated by the university for NCI. 
An NCI statement said the ac­tion was taken after experts au­diting the project found what was called a "new irregularity" at one of the institutions participating in the study. The institution was not identified, but a source said it was in Canada. 
A statement said that the ex­perts found that "a discrepancy exists in data reported to NS­ABP in 1993 by one of its mem­ber affiliates." 
The NCI said the finding has been turned over to the De­partment of Health and Human Services research integrity of" fice for investigation. 
Additionally, the NCI ordered the researchers involved in the NSABP "to stop adding new patients" until the federal agency completes "an intensive review of all records and quali­ty assessment and control procedures." 
The freeze affects seven stud­ies that were enrolling patients, a spokeswoman said. 

Dr. Sam Broder, director of NCI, would not take calls from journalists. A spokesman in his office directed questions to Bruce Chabner, director of can­cer treatment, who did not re­turn calls. 
Officials at the University of Pittsburgh also refused to talk to reporters, but Fisher issued a statement saying that he was asking for administrative leave from the NSABP. 

Kim·: South is willing to talk 
North Korea is developing nu­clear weapons. 
But in a news conference at the end of his two-day visit, Kim said only that he and Chi­na's leaders agreed talks should continue. 
South Korea has been trying to resolve the dispute "through dialogue and persuasion, and we will not renounce our efforts for dialogue in the future," he said. 
North Korea denies it is building nuclear weapons, but has refused to let international inspectors see a key nuclear facility. 

Mark Your Calendars 

~094: ~ENIOI& INFOI&~~L 


Friday, April 15th, from 7:00PM at Corpus Christi Parish Hall offPortage Avenue 

-sit-down Polish wedding feast dinner­-hours of dancing­-two great bands, including Sabor Latina­-only $12.00 a person­-tickets on sale after Easter-

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SUMMER SESSION Course Addition 

GEOS 102 Field Environmental Geology May 29-June 19, 1994 GEOS 102 is an intensive three-week, three-credit course for non-science and non-engineering majors that satisfies the University science requirement. There are no prerequisites beyond a basic knowledge of high school science and mathe­matics. 
The course will be taught at Notre Dame's Field Station in central Utah. Topics will include natural geologic hazards 

(e.g. earthquakes, floods and landslides); earth resources (e.g. water, energy and minerals); pollution and waste disposal; community planning; and impact mitigation. Numerous field trips will involve students on a daily basis with a hands-on approach to environmental problems recognition and mitigation. There will be quizzes, exercises and projects, and a final examination. 
The cost is $1800, including tuition and fees, field travel, room and board, educational materials and guest lecturers. Students will be responsible for additional travel costs to and from the Salt Lake City airport. A non-refundable deposit of $500 is required by April 15, 1994. 
For additional information, contact Prof. J. Keith Rigby, 105 Cushing Hall(631-6245) or Prof. John Halfman, 106C Cushing Hall (631-5164). 
Beijing has consistently played down its influence with North Korea, saying it can play only a limited role. 
As part of efforts to defuse the crisis, both Chinese and South Korean officials oppose a 
U.S. proposal for a legally bind­ing U.N. resolution pressuring the North to accept full inspec­tions and hinting at sanctions if it doesn't. 
China and South Korea have also urged the United Nations to press Pyongyang to allow the inspections, but through a milder, nonbinding statement. 
In Thailand, a North Korean diplomat said Tuesday that the U.S.-backed resolution pressur­ing North Korea to accept nu­clear inspections would only delay a resolution of the issue. 
The South Korean president said he and his Chinese coun­terpart, Jiang Zemin, "had a very intensive discussion of the North Korean nuclear prob­lem." He refused to give de­tails. 


~--~---­
.. 

page6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 30, 1994 





t's time to 



• 


n 1ana vs. otre ...,.,_,arne 3:00p.m. 
at the NEW Frank Eck Baseball Stadium on campus! 
It is your day to celebrate the opening ofthe newest stadium on campus. 
Just show your student i.d. at the gate! FREE Subway subs to the first 500 students. 
· You must show your i.d. 

CONTESTS-GIVEAWAYS-PRIZES 



VIEWPOINT 
page 7 


Wednesday, March 30, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SA!Nf MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake: Peters Mauging Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ..............•............. Sean Galla van Pboto Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan ConuoUer ..................................... Kristen Mattina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisua­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to aU members of the Noue Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Victim tells of pain from sexual assault 
I had recently spent a week in Appalachia with your room­mates. They were great guys, why would I think you were any different. I thought you were a nice guy, a real "sweet­heart." I had met you several times before and you never gave me any reason to be sus­picious of you. All your girl­friends trusted you, why shouldn't have I? They must have never seen the "monster" come out in you. 
I was a sophomore. Someone who was comfortable with the social scene. I thought I knew what to look out for. I was more naive than I thought. You stole the confidence and securi­ty I once possessed. 
Tuesday, November 10, 1992 is a date I will never forget. Do you remember that night? You know, the night we went to the concert and the bars after­wards. It was intended to be a memorable night with a group of friends. It was too memo­rable for me. Now it is a night I wish I could forget but I never will. 
Do you remember me telling you "no?" Do you understand what "no" means? Do you re­member holding me down? I remember how scared I felt. I remember the thoughts run­ning through my mind. I re­member thinking this cannot be happening to me. This was not supposed to happen to me. What did I do to deserve this? 
I did nothing to deserve this. You are at fault, not me. You took liberties I never gave you permission to take. 
You have no idea the amount of pain you have put me through the last year and a half. My life has been a living hell. 
I toss and turn and lay awake for hours at night because of you. I cannot be around other men without feeling uneasy be­cause of you. I jump when someone touches me because of you. I have no desire to date anyone because of you. 
Do you know what it feels like to have your life taken away from you? Do you know what it feels like to be afraid to go out? Do you know what it feels like to no longer trust anyone? 
My only wish is that you could experience a small por­tion of my pain. Maybe then you would feel some remorse for your actions. 
You not only took away the life I knew before but you took away my innocence. 
ANONYMOUS 
Junior 


Recently a group of panelists convened on campus to discuss the fairness and morality of the death penalty. And, while I should perhaps by now be ac­customed to the fact that cer­tain members of our society find this heinous act accept­able, it continues to disturb me --deeply. 
One source of frustration for me is the fact that many peo­ple's opinions on the death penalty are informed signifi­cantly by mere myths. Several such misconceptions were ap­parent in the contentions ad­vanced by Patty Molloy, the panelist who argued in favor of capital punishment. 
For example, she found it unjust that citizens should be expected to pay for a convicted person to spend life in prison. Many advocates of death state this as a major factor militating in favor of the penalty. 
Unfortunately, it is widely un­recognized that an execution is more costly than a life spent in prison. Is it any more fair to expect society to pay for death than for life? While it might satisfy the retributive urges of some, I fail to see how it com­ports any more with the end of justice. 
Molloy also stated that a pun­ishment should fit its crime. This is a popu1ar saying; we all have heard it. But practically speaking it is no more than fic­tion. If we made any serious attempt to fit punishments to crimes, we wou1d rape rapists; we would burn down the homes of arsonists; we would have thieves forfeit all their prop­erty. 
Because punishments are not "fitting" to their crimes in other instances, I fail to see why we 

DOONESBURY 
ONLY IF YOU'R& TH&N

wat.,A 
COV8RJNGUP WHY7Hl3
COVeR:UPS 
ANOTHeR CRIM~, (l)Vef<:UP?

;;uoee, IAIHY CAN'Ta~& A GRIM&. 
/AJH/c:H 7H&Y'R&

RU/rlM/1613 TH!<IJUGH 
/NOT. 
,1

THe CtiNTVN5 "'­
F/t£5~ 77-115 
StfACKSOF 
A COVEIN.JP.' 
should make an exception when a person's most basic right of all is at stake-the right to live. To follow a different procedure here would be both anomalous and unjust. 
Molloy also justified the death penalty on the grounds that "only for murder is the death penalty applicable." If she were correct, those of us on the opposite side might have a harder time arguing our posi­tion. But she is not. Currently, prosecutors are entitled to seek the death penalty for certain drug offenses; in the past, the penalty was available for crimes such as rape and trea­son. 
Other pervasive misconcep­tions make the death penalty justifiable in the eyes of some. Not everyone realizes, for ex­ample, that the available em­pirical evidence fails to show that the death penalty possess­es any deterrent efficacy. 
Furthermore, convicted mur­derers have been found to behave better than their peers while in prison and to have a lower rate of recidivism if and when released. Perhaps most egregious is the enormous amount of statistical evidence that death discriminates. African-Americans are much more likely to be sentenced to death than whites, especially when their victims are white. 
With such a clearly irrelevant factor entering into the deter­mination of whether a person lives or dies, the conclusion is inescapable that some of those who have had to sacrifice their lives have been innocent. And in certain instances. this proposition has risen above the level of mere conjecture and has in fact been proven. 

Statistics, however, are per­haps the least effective mode of argument. Everyone knows that if you look diligently enough you will fmd the empir­ical data to support whatever point its is you want to make. And at any rate, my concerns about the death penalty focus less on this aspect of the issue than on a much more funda­mental notion. 
Most of us here at Notre Dame are Catholics. As such, we place a special priority on life. This is most clearly mani­fested in the Catholic Church's major role in the abortion de­bate. How can we cogently say in one case that a human being has an unequivocal right to life and in another case that he de­serves to die? What about the axiom that while we must reject all sin, we should nev­ertheless love all sinners? 
I personally believe that the death penalty is in all instances unconstitutional. But that is another issue and, neverthe­less, in a Catholic setting the argument should not have to proceed that far. The death penalty is inimical to the sanc­tity and dignity accorded by Catholics to all human life. 
And with Easter approaching, it is also worthwhile to consider the following: "One would think that death penalty-sup­porting Catholics wou1d at least see the irony of their position as members of a religion whose own founder was an executed convict and whose symbol is itself an implement of exe­cution." (Tod Tamberg, Editor, The Tidings, Los Angeles). 
Kirsten M. Dunne is a second­year law student. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
/Jte IJEE, ARaJ'T 
YOUR&AUY
WHAT 
COV&RJN(j UP 
TH&COV&R­
co.veR-
UP? \ _,_,.."-""'
1uP? 

''You can't say civilization 
don't advance... for every war they kill you a new way." 
-Will Rogers 
VIEWPOINT

page 8 Wednesday, March 30, 1994 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

How about a reality check? 
wrote a letter Yi\'1. ¢-man· the president-elect C)f the GSU to express my concern and dis .. W content and this letter has been ignored. J agree with Elgin's complaints concerning the GSU and I there are 
some things .. the &tudent · · 
h . 
original·intent, because of graduate apathy, >;;; 
I · e the unive~sUyJvill · kee ·in mind· when listen~ ,'" .sq provM o~ ~ GSU ret ....·.· ..... ,/s
. ".pr al function or disba.t}d au 
2 together. As Elgin said, "We did not come here to debate the pros and cons of radical issues which do not affect us. Mosfof 1ls•..are · 
Department l)f Chemisuy ~d )!14che!J:iistl)' 
Qffl,¢affipus 
PETE PETERSON 
Dear Editor: 
I write in response to a letter which appeared in your paper on March 23, 1994, above the name of Elgin Anderson, a graduate student in Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. 
Mr. Anderson wrote to pro­vide your readership with a ba­sis for comparing the opinions of a very small group with indi­viduals and organizations rep­resenting a much larger group. 
Specifically, he compares opinions held by "the majority of Aerospace and Mechanical engineering graduate students at Notre Dame" with the actions and positions of the duly constituted Graduate Student Council (GSC) and a Graduate Student Union (GSU) administration which took office with a clear victory achieved while running on a straightforward and well-publi­cized platform. 
That author seemed rather taken with the idea of "real" life. Upon further considera­tion, most observers would find that the GSU more closely approximates the reality of Notre Dame graduate student life than does an Aero-Mech caucus. 
Mr. Anderson is wrong to suggest that the very narrow view he represents is in any way related to that of a real majority of graduate students or any group larger than a majority of his own department (which in the grand scheme of the Graduate School is, like mine, only one department of many). 
He says he writes to "clear up a misconception," but by disin­genuously asserting that the GSU represents a "complaining, self-serving minority," he cre­ates a misconception of a sad sort. What minority could have drawn his ire'? The only mi­norities his letter provides a basis for identifying are (I) any students within his own de­partment who disagree with him and (2) the members of the Notre Dame Community who are homosexual and/or "radical feminists." 

I seriously doubt he's inter­ested in the former, and the latter are neither distinctly rep­resented on the GSC nor identi­fied in the GSU Constitution. I have personally read every word of that thoughtful docu­ment, and there are no council seats set aside on the basis of radical feminism or sexual ori­entation (or political persua­sion, for that matter). There are no seats set aside for GLND/SMC, just as there are no seats set aside for the Knights of Columbus. 
Representation on the GSC is by department, and the GSU's officers are determined by a vote of the graduate students. 
Mr. Anderson implies that there is some under-repre­sented but clearly identifiable majority that's just too busy to take part in community affairs. However, if any group is under­represented in the whole pro­cess, it is not a majority but a technical minority-the kind that loses things like elections and council votes. 
In organizations run on democratic principles, majori­ties tend to fare rather well. 
Furthermore, contrary to another of his imprudent impli­cations, there is no provision within the GSU constitution for an officer or officers to railroad a program (political or other­wise) through the council. Neither is there any reason that a duly constituted administra­tion and/or council should give undue weight to the opinions of the majority of students within one department. 
Apparently, Mr. Anderson is arguing that an injustice should replace an impossibility. 
How about a "reality check." 
If the GSC seems particularly receptive to an administration's proposals, perhaps it is because departmental repre­sentatives like those proposals! Perhaps what one person deni­grates as "social concerns" many others consider to be far more than that. (And, by the way, what kind of community denigrates "social concerns" like justice, equality and digni­ty?) 
While there is not enough space here to thoroughly refute the misconceptions Mr. Anderson's letter advanced, I must point out one more. He seems to believe that readers of the GSU Newsletter and The Observer are naive, maybe even stupid. 
Therefore, he felt it was very important to point out that the GSC is just like most other rep­resentative, deliberative bodies. It is often the site of disagree­ments, and not all of its deci­sions are unanimous. 
It doesn't take a rocket scien­tist to figure that out. In fact, anybody who might be shocked by such a finding probably doesn't read this far into any newspaper to find out. 
Finally, I shudder to think of the kind of science that may be conducted by scholars who cyn­ically accept injustice as "life" and tell the victims to shut up. An administrator named Adolf Hitler found work for aca­demics too busy with "real work" to think in terms of "right" and "wrong" and too "focused on specific research problems" to engage in ethical discourse. 
I refuse to believe that such is the kind of work which typifies Notre Dame-or any of its de­partments. 
DAVID F. STEELE 
Craduate Student in Gl)vernment 
and International Studies 
BEYOND FREEDOM ROCK 

And you thought housing today was a challenge ... 
A quarter of a century ago, I was in the seminary. 
I wasn't studying for the priesthood; I was studying to get ofT academic proba­tion. I'd had a pretty interesting fresh­man year, working out my feelings against the Vietnam War, which I decid­ed I was against, and long hair, which I decided I was in favor of, and I learned how to play the guitar. I just didn't learn much about calculus, which I flunked first semester, or history, which I flunked second semester. I forget how I got through biology. 
Anyway, what that meant was that I was so far down the list for room selec­tion that I ended up being kicked off­campus for my sophomore year. 
In those days, living on campus was pretty Spartan: the rooms were bare, small, and dank. I don't think my dou­ble in Farley even exists anymore; I seem to recall that they punched through into the next room, because two people should not live in a space seven by fourteen feet. 
Rules were tough, too. During my sophomore year they finally extended parietal hours so that halls could have visitation between noon and 1 :00 a.m. on weekends, provided that they had a fulfilled the sign-up procedure for all female visitors. Prior to that, we could only have women in our rooms for a few hours on football Saturdays and Mardi Gras Weekend. Booze was verboten, but drunken jerks running up and down the halls all night seemed pretty much the standard. And dining hall food was not excellent. It was not at all excellent. 
So you might think that getting kicked-ofT campus would be an all right experience. But there were rules out there, too. The university had a list of approved housing, and you had to select from that list. 
Approved housing, unless you were a twenty-one year old senior, meant a house in which the landlord lived on the premises. Not half a duplex, mind you, or a mother-in-law apartment; you were specifically forbidden to have a private entrance. You had to live in the house with the landlord. 
This was not so much fun. When I went to summer school after freshman year, I lived on St. Vincent Street with Ma. She insisted that all her boys call her "Ma," and who was I to argue? This guy, Phil, had lived there all year and he more or less called her "hey you," but they got along. 
What we rented was a room. Phil and I shared an upstairs bedroom, and there was a bathroom up there, too, while she lived downstairs and had her own bath­room. And she had a kitchen, too, which we didn't share. We ate on cam­pus or at restaurants, but not at home. 
I soon found that getting in and out of the house quietly was important, because being intercepted in the kitchen meant 15 minutes of interaction with Ma, who was apparently very lonely. That made sense: she was lonely and took in college boys for company. But she was also loony. 
"Now be sure to lock the door when you go out, Peter," she told me, one morning when I had almost made it out unobserved. "Last night, they broke into one of my girlfriend's houses and slit her throat from here to here," and she drew a finger through her wattles with solemn glee. 
"Oh, that's nothing," Phil assured me later. "Has she shown you the jewelry and clothes she's going to be buried in yet?" 
So, after the summer, I moved out to a house off Portage, with Aunt Mary. I don't know why we had to have all these familiar nicknames for our landladies, but we did. Aunt Mary was pretty cool, though, because she wasn't all that talk­ative, and, once she took out her hear­ing aid at night, she was deaf as a door­post, too, and I could crank up "Wheels of Fire" in my room and rattle the win­dowpanes without any complaints from Aunt Mary. 
But it was three-and-a-half miles off campus, and I didn't have a car. There was nothing more annoying than stand­ing there, hitchhiking in the morning, books under your arms, and watching other married students drive past you, knowing they knew you were a Domer, too. Anyway, I got tired of walking to class and of not being able to just slip home to pick up a book, and took a room in St. Joe Hall. 
St. Joe was a pretty cool place to live. Except in the dead of winter, the walk around the back of the lake is pleasant, and the rules about women in a semi­nary weren't any more restrictive than the rules on campus, while the drunken jackass factor was almost nonexistent. 
The seminarians lived on the second floor, and, although we were on friendly terms and mixed socially in the base­ment rec. room, that was a world unto itself. The third and forth floors were filled with academic screw-ups like me. 

That meant we kept it pretty quiet, because we were all trying to save our butts, and there was an understanding that, while we may have had a lot to prove to the university, we didn't have a thing to prove to each other. 
I liked St. Joe and had every intention of being there for junior year. As I recall, I even had a fourth floor room overlooking the lake, but it might have faced the other way. But then the uni­versity decided that, if our parents approved, we could move into our own apartments, which I did in the fall. 
And, of course, I wasn't the only one. Even people who got good grades recog­nized the advantages of having your own apartment. The resulting exodus combined with the opening of Grace and Flanner Halls to give Notre Dame an embarrassing plethora of living space and an object lesson in free-market eco­nomics. 
The rules eased up, the dorms were refurbished, rules against automobiles were made less restrictive, the food even improved, and people began to move back on campus. Or, should I say, they began to stay on campus, because nobody ever gave up an apartment in favor of a dorm room at a university where they weren't sure men and women should live on the same campus, and where, a quarter century later, they still don't think they can live in the same building. 
Pete Peterson, a 1971 graduate of Notre Dame. is Readership Manager at the Press-Republican. a daily newspaper in Plattsburgh. NY. 
8aint ears 
Mary's 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Archives Chair of Notre Dame Board of Trustees Edmund Stephan, Acting College President Sister Alma Peter, University President Father Theodore Hesburgh and Chair of Saint Mary's Board of Trustees Mother Olivette Whelan (left to right) announce the signing of the Joint Statement on Unification at a press conference. The statement would lead to the incorporation of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame into one university under the name of the University of Notre Dame. 
From unification to nonunification, Saint Mary's faces turbulence 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Saim Mary's Editor Emerita 
0 
ne of several bedsheets hanging from the win­dows of Le Mans Hall confirmed the uncertain­ty of the destiny of Saint Mary's when students left for Christmas break in 1971, "Last one out of Saint Mary's please turn out the lights," the sheet read. 
The protests and boycotts had ended for a few days when students concentrated on their final exams, but the feelings of many of the students remained the same-not unifying with Notre Dame would inevitably lead to the demise of the College. 
The uncertainty of the future that for years seemed to be headed in the direction of co-education left many to wonder how the relationship between the College and the University could so quickly and shockingly come to an abrupt halt. 
From the beginning the institutions had shared a common history, but it was in 1965 that the relation­ship became a formal one that eventually led to a deci­sion to merge. 
With the inception of the academic co-exchange pro­gram by College President Sister Maria Renata Daily and University President Father Theodore Hesburgh Saint Mary's and Notre Dame began a new era. Starting on a small scale, the program sought to avoid the duplication of some programs and classes on the two campuses in order to economize. 
In 1965, due to health concerns, Daily resigned from the presidency. Sister Mary Grace Kos was named the 5th president of the College by the Board of Trustees. 
T
hroughout Kos' term, efforts to cooperate wherever possible with Notre Dame continued. Through faculty and student efforts the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre integrated to form a sin­gle department in 1966. 
During the 1966-67 school year Kos' presidency was terminated by the Board of Trustees based on reports and investigation that she was not readily accepted by the faculty. 
Monsignor John McGrath was named acting presi­dent and a year later the 6th president of the College. 
With a background in canon and civil law, McGrath faced the growing problem that faced virtually every Catholic women's college in the nation-survival. 
McGrath reorganized the internal organization of the College through appointment of new administrators and the restructuring of channels of communication. 
In 1968, the Boards of Trustees appointed a coordi­nating council of administration and faculty from the 

Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives A bannercaptures the sentiment on campus in Dec. 1971 after unification plans between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame collapsed. 
College and the University to define the relationship between the two institutions. 
The council's report, issued in 1969, said that the two would remain separate, but would continue to col­laborate in all feasible areas. 
I
n the spirit of collaboration Saint Mary's became the center for the teacher education program in 1969 when the Education Department merged 
with Notre Dame's Institute for Studies in Education. 
The theology departments at both institutions opened their doors to each other and participated in an exchange of faculty members who taught on the corresponding campus. 
In June of 1970, McGrath died of a heart attack and Sister Alma Peter was named acting president of the College. Peter was left to determine how the College would proceed in its relationship to Notre Dame. 

In 1970 Saint Mary's and Notre Dame instituted a study by outside consultants to study the cooperation between the institutions and make recommendations for the future. 
R
osemary Park and Lewis Mayhew began the 
study in the fall of 1970. The report recom­
mend among other things that "Saint Mary's College should join the University of Notre Dame as a separate and distinctive entity operating within the larger University framework ...and would concentrate on an educational program primarily designed for women." 
In the Spring of 1971, the Boards of Trustees at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame issued the Joint Policy Statement on Unification departing from the recom­mendations of the Park-Mayhew report. 
"The ultimate goal of this unification is a single insti­tution with one student body of men and women, one faculty, one president and administration and one board of trustees," the statement read. 
The College agreed to preservation of its heritage and name by agreeing to become the college of record for all female undergraduates, the inclusion of Saint Mary's College on all diplomas for undergraduate women of the University, through the designation of the campus as the Saint Mary's campus and "in the myriad intangibles-traditions, programs, personali­ties, influences-this oldest and largest Catholic col­lege for women will carry into the new enterprise," according to the statement. 
The decision for complete merger came after Notre Dame notified the Saint Mary's trustees that they pre­ferred merger with Saint Mary's, but would admit women in 1972 if the College decided not to unify, according to Peter. 
M
ove toward merger proceeded quickly. Departments set the 1971-7 2 school year for academic department merger. And joint committees to study all aspects of unification were formed. The 1974-75 was set as the target date for comple­tion of the unification. 
"(Notre Dame and Saint Mary's) agreed to a unifica­tion which will create a center of total education opportunity that could not be achieved by either insti­tution alone," the 1971-72 bulletin read. 
see UNIFICATION/ page 2 page 2 The Observer ·150 YEAQ<£> Of <£>AINT MAQY'<£> Wednesday, March 30, 1994 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses and hall meeting ing for admission would be stood each other," Peter told a College will continue various were common, but the protest given the choice of the institu-group at a Keenan Hall forum.
Unification 
forms of cooperation in further­on the Notre Dame campus was tion to which they wanted She also said that she did not 
ing their common goal of delayed and much smaller. admission. blame those who transferred,
continued from page 1 
Christian education." "It has become perfectly clear In a series of Observer edito-because they were promised 
Admission brochures adver-that we cannot have now one rials the editorial board something the College can no tised the University of Notre It was not until return from institution and one administra-declared that the decision not longer deliver a Notre Dame Dame, Saint Mary's College for Thanksgiving break that stu-tion. Therefore, we must build to merge was the degree.
VERwomen with a photo of Le Mans dents learned of the breakdown cas maanyn br,idg~s as we possibly The Board appointed Edward tower in the background. of the merger. Henry the 7th president of the 
With the unification of all The November 30 issue of the College. academic departments at the 0 b server Henry pledged to "opening beginning of the year, lines of communication which S a i n t -=::::::....---l have been strained and bro-M a r y ' s ken in the last months." 
department Again, in time of crisis, c h a i r s tre Saint Mary's found strength 
b e c am e ser'l"i1'lg thehnoopes kl•lle .· in its leadership. 
a s s o c i a t e Henry foresaw more than chairs in survival for the College, he their corre-saw the dissent and crisis of s p 0 n din g -....11 g er the nonmerger "as a cata­
~~;:::::::_ ~......er · n rarn 
"':~;:::~:::::,:::_:d:
tration, unified one -a...-~ planning process to sturly to the
eculat10 ad miss i 0 n s, ---He s burgh "A ~ollection of administra-future of Saint Mary's. registrar, devel-said at a student forum. tors, trustees and potentates Within his two year presiden­opment and reported that a Rumors surfaced saying that managed to botch a bright and cy, Saint Mary's had moved out public relations statement will be issued sus-it was fear of absorption, iden-promising merger," the editori-of the turmoil and into a new offices were realities of the uni-pending unification indefinitely tity loss and high prices for al read. It went ahead to tell era in the education of women. fication process. on the basis of "financial and lease of Saint Mary's property Saint Mary's students to tell the Admission had decreased the 
Unified student government, administrative concerns," and by the Sisters of the Holy Cross their parents "they are not year following the collapse of budgeting, administrations, fac-that Notre Dame would admit that stalled the merger. spending $3,700 a year to send the merger from 1,796 to 1,465 ulty tenure and a joint campus women undergraduates the fol-The chair of Saint Mary's you to an institution destined to with 211 students transferring ministry remained under study. lowing year. Board of Trustees, Mother become a third rate finishing to Notre Dame. 
In October, rumors that The sentiment among stu-Olivette Whalen, said that the school." Enrollment steadily and financial negotiations were dents was unprecedented. reasons for nonunification were In December, the Saint quickly grew. In 1974-75 three holding up the merger infiltrat-More than 1,500 students not just financial. Mary's Board of Trustees voted years after the statement of ed the campuses. boycotted classes, "Most (SMC) administra-to resume negotiations and the non-unification enrollment rose 
University Provost James threatened to with-tors feel. Notre Dame Board of Trustees to 1,656. Burtchaell confirmed that their hold tuition and followed suit in January. Aimee Beckmann, 1975 vale-
was no possibility of a shared transfer. Student ~~[:-~~~~~~jf~I;:n,_,..,.~d~ic~t:or:i:a:n~, reflected on the past
budget for the next year. government hired 1 four years in her Burtchaell said that a new a lawyer to sue the address to a timetable would be released College for class that after the next Trustees' meet-promising stu-was assured ing "if a decision is made to dents a Notre Dame Notre Dame proceed with unification." degree and not delivering. .that degrees. 
Authorities continued to Notre Dame was reneging "The class assure students that unification News of non-unification was on its commitment with Saint February of 1975 has plans were moving ahead as carried in newspapers across Mary's College for unification 1972, negotiations renewed been able to planned. the nation. made last spring," Whalen said. between the two schools with a see the transi­
"Many students and faculty "This is absorption." news blackout, but the talks tion of Saint Mary's College 
members say the bitter campus It was reiterated that things stalled again in the spring with from a group of people uncer­The move toward coeducation mood that has followed the would continue as they were the final cancellation of the tain about themselves and theirunfurled quickly though. 
announcement may be a sign-throughout the spring semes-merger quietly announced. goals and purposes to a com­"In view of the University's post of a shaky future for Saint ter. Saint Mary's students "At the merger talks last year munity dedicated to developingpresent financial situation, uni­Mary's," a New York Times majoring at Notre Dame would the more the two merger teams women's self-awareness andfication was deemed not feasi­report read. receive Notre Dame degrees talked, the farther apart they fulfilling her potential throughble," a November 13 committee Press conferences on both and high school seniors apply-divide and the less they under-education," Beckmann said. 
report read. "The University of 
Nonunification leads College to re..examine goals 
By MYRNA MALONEY ment of nonunification, special task process involving members of the •the establishment of an on-going res­
News Writer forces were established at a meeting of administration, faculty, staff and stu­idence advisor program with budgeting 
the Board of Trustees in order to study dent body. and an in-service training program 
Saint Mary's College and the the goals and objectives for the future of The Board of Trustees set several •the implementation of an official 
University of Notre Dame today Saint Mary's College. goals based on the comprehensive study room contract for all hall residents 
announced that "it is not possible to "SMC will add innovative programs saying, "First priority should be given to It was also recommended by the 
accomplish complete unification at this significant to contemporary society and the improvement and expansion of Saint Student Publications Board that for the 
time" other educational programs primarily Mary's recreational facilities. We feel academic year of 1972-73, the Saint 
The decision by Saint Mary's to call designed for women," a Nov. 30, 1971 this to be an area that needs bolstering Mary's Business Office should present a 
off the proposed merger with the Notre letter from the Board of Trustees said. if we properly recognize the psychologi­billing for the Observer and Scholastic 
Dame in 1971 was considered to have "A program of academic exchange cal and physical needs of students to all students at $2 per semester. 
been a mistake that would ultimately will be planned so that students may under consistent academic require­The divorce also " ... brought predic­
cause the then 125 year old institution take particular courses on either cam­ments and pressures." tions that Saint Mary's would have to 
to close its doors forever, according to a pus. Cooperation in social, cultural, and The Board saw particular need in the close." Father Neil McCluskey, a Jesuit 
report written in 1979 by a Saint Mary's spiritual areas of student life will con­allowance of personal privacy; there­priest and Saint Mary's Board member, 
faculty member. tinue between the two institutions," the fore, made the following recommenda­said, "The decision not to merge has 
" ... Saint Mary's (will) continue as an letter said. tions: certainly eviscerated any chance that 
autonomous women's residential college "Saint Mary's College shall maintain •the re-opening of the Campus Coffee Saint Mary's will survive another year." 
with a strong liberal arts core but with itself as a contemporary Catholic com­House The Freshman class of 197 4 was the 
special emphasis upon programs direct­munity in which each student may •allowance of hall lounge usage after largest in the school's history and in 
ed to women and with innovative pro­develop critical qualities of mind and hours with proper security precautions 1975, enrollment was 1,632. 
grams significant to contemporary soci­durable qualities of Christian charac­•renovation of Saint Angela Hall, the The planning process instituted by 
ety," Acting President Sister Alma Peter ter," Peters said in a closing statement. campus gymnasium, and reassessment Henry had guided Saint Mary's on the 
wrote in a letter to the community. In a separate declaration of the future of the Physical Education Department path to ensuring the success of the 
Immediately following the announce-of Saint Mary's, College President budget College's future. 
Edward Henry instituted the planning •construction of a campus pool 

THE MERGER YEARS: 1985-1974 
1967-Groundbreaking for the Madel eva 1969-Graduate school of 
Memorial Classroom Building Sacred Theology closed 
1967-First Sophomore Parents Weekend held 

1965 
1965-Co-exchange inaugurated during fall semester classes 1967-First President's Medal 1968-Father John McGrath 1965-Sister Mary Grace Kohs named 5th president ofSaint Mary's conferred at graduation named 6th President ofthe College 
r-----~------~~----------------------------------~~----------~~-------~--~~. 
... 

Wednesday, March 30, 1994 The Observer ·150 YEAR& OF &AINT MARY'& page3 
•
A look back 

at the people, places and policies of Saint Mary's College 
Compiled by Jennifer Habrych 
Sister Alma Peter, who served as the Notre Dame Vice President of Special Projects and Acting President of Saint Mary's to ease the transition to a unified school, was the first women vice president in Notre Dame history. 
Three Notre Dame students were elected to at-large seats on the Saint Mary's student assembly in 1971. As one of the efforts to ease the transi­tion to a unified Student Government, the student assembly held open elections. In Jan. 1972, a Notre Dame student was named interim Student Body Vice President after no Saint Mary's students applied to fill the vacated posi­tion. 
Mrs. Fred Carroll, entranced by the reading of 3rd College President Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff's autobiography "My First Seventy Years," became a benefactor of the College. She never visited Saint Mary's and refrained from meeting Wolff and her successors saying that she preferred if Saint Mary's remained a dream. When the classroom building she had contributed to building became a reality, Carroll Auditorium was named after the women affectionately known as "Aunt administration, faculty and stu­dent body planned and partici­pated in the Inspectrum picnic, banquet and mixer to show the totality of being a Saint Mary's student. 

Tuition and general fees for the 1969-70 academic year were $950 per semester, room fees were $200 to $350 per semester and board fees were $300 per semester. 
In 1969-70 classes typewrit­ing and shorthand were part of the business program open to all majors. 
Saint Mary's 4th President Sister Maria Renata Daily insti­tuted a graduate program in elementary education and spe­cial education. 
A campus in Rome was established in September 1970. The curriculum was arranged for sophomores pursuing any academic major. 
Shuttle service between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's began in the fall of 1966 to take students participating in the co-exchange to class and back. 
In 1974, a tribute to Saint Mary's 3rd President Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff was inserted into the Congressional Record. 
Mother Teresa of Calcutta addressed students in O'Laughlin Auditorium in 197 4. 
The Art Department became a member of the National Association of Schools of Art in 1973. The College was the 1st Catholic College in the nation to be selected for membership. 

The Parents' Council was founding in 1966. 
Four. students from Saint Mary's participated in the national College Bowl competi­tion. Sponsored by General Electric and broadcast on national television by NBC, four students answered questions involving the arts, science and current events. Saint Mary's scored two victories in the tournament over the University of North Carolina and the State University of New York at Albany. 
In 1969 the College celebrat­ed its 125th anniversary with a series of events planned for the occasion. 
A 175 acre area of woodland north and west of campus were set aside for a nature area. The area offered a nature trail with self guided tour and a teaching and research area for the biol­ogy department. 
During the 1968-69 school year President Monsignor John McGrath appointed students to college councils on academic affairs in part of what he called an attempt to establish commu­nity government. 
Trivium provides base for liberal arts program 
By LYNN BAUWENS 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
When Sister Miriam Joseph Raub wished to teach an interdisciplinary course on literature, logic and rhetoric and could not find a textbook, she wrote her own. She emphasized the relation­ship between the elements of the trivium beginning the course which would shape the freshmen curriculum for the next thirty years. 
During a speech at Saint Mary's in 1935, Professor Mortimer Adler, scholastic philosopher at the University of Chicago, inspired the revival of the trivium in the college setting. 
"Today we have the liberal arts cours­es offered in our colleges, but what our facts, by reasoning, we get that mental training which is the very goal of our college work-the trained mind." 
During the first semester, the students considered the nature of function of lan­guage and grammar. They focused upon the writing of narratives and the reading of the Iliad, the Odyssey and various dramas. 
In the spring, Rauh emphasized the informal essays of Thoreau, Emerson, Irving and Bacon. For the research paper, students examined works on edu­cation and culture by Milton, Newman and Arnold. 
"The entire course then has as its pur­pose the training of the faculties of the student," said Rauh. "It is a tool or skill 

graduates know little or nothing about is subject, not a content subject." truth and goodness," Adler said. the liberal arts," Adler said. Rauh emphasized the development of In 1961 Raub stopped teaching the 
He encouraged a return to the study of the student as a whole person. She trivium for the first time since 1935, the tridium, the three arts of language described the function of studying excluding the three years she spent noting that increased specialization had English as "the development of the stu­studying at Columbia.
Photo courtesy of Sister Maria Assunta Werner 

failed to provide the tools of learning to dent's faculties of impression and those At the time of her death in 1982, many 
Sister Miriam Joseph Rauh conceptualized 

students. of expression." and taught the trivium to freshmen from of the faculty at Saint Mary's were her The following spring the five-hour The seven liberal arts play an impor­1935 to 1961. students while receiving their degrees. course in writing, reading, speaking, lis­tant role in this development, according William Hickey, then vice president
and Reading." Students benefitted great­

tening and thinking became required for to Rauh. and dean of faculty, described Raub as
ly from the integrated curriculum. The

freshman. "The man who first perfects his own "perhaps the most distinguished scholar
first class increased 40 percentile in

"The three language arts-logic, faculties through liberal education is to be identified with the College in this
their performance on the Cooperative

grammar, and rhetoric provide a disci­thereby better prepared to serve his fel­century."
English Test from September to May

pline of the mind," said Raub in a low men in a professional or other Without her guiding vision, the course
compared with a six percentile gain in

speech delivered to the Conference of capacity," she wrote in the introduction was not revived, but the emphasis on
national norms. The classes consistently

College Presidents. "And so, by studying to "The Trivium in College Composition the liberal arts continued at the College. 
1970-Death of college President Father 1971-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 1972-Death ofMarion McCandless, first John McGrath issue statement ofunification president ofthe Alumnae Association 1972-First Madrigral Dinner 
1974 




improved on these tests, but also gained from the development of what Raub called "intellectual muscles." 
"All my life I will be grateful I had the opportunity to study under you for you helped me to appreciate literature not as a task to be accomplished, but as an art to be enjoyed, wrote Joanne Kluper to Rauh. 
Appropriately enough, Adler gave the commencement address to the first graduating trivium class. 
"Let me remind you of one thing, namely, that there should be no divorce of the practical and theoretical. ..There is throughout some correlation between them-between knowledge and action, faith and morals, ethics and meta­physics, intelligence and character, 
1970-Sister Alma Peter named Acting 1971-Announcement of 1972-Edward Henry named 7th president of 1974-Board of Regents passes resolution President ofthe College non-unification with Notre Dame the Alumni Association allowing male visitation in dormitory rooms 
------·-------~---------·----~-----~~---~~--------~-.... 
page 4 The Observer ·150 YEAQ6 Of 6AINT MAQY'6 Wednesday, March 30, 1994 
Co...exchange precipitates move toward co...education 
By PATTI CARSON In 1970, there were 2,000 stu­Assistant Saint Mary's Editor dents from both schools involved in the program. 
"Beginning this fall, Saint The proposed shuttle bus to Mary's College has expanded transport students to there its program of cooperation with classes posed several problems the University of Notre Dame to in 1969. Since a larger bus include co-exchange of students was needed, the idea of cost, on the freshman level.," read a shelter and the installation of letter of acceptance written by an electric gate were discussed. Associate Academic Dean Sister Other problems involved the Joanice Finske in 1969. dining hall schedule. 
I 
"This means that Saint Mary's freshmen may be It was decided on May 22, assigned to four of the liberal 1969 that the solution to the arts core classes on the Notre problems posed by the shuttle Dame campus (English, history, and co-exchange was to expand sociology and American gov­the co-exchange to the dining 
! 
ernment), while Notre Dame halls. According to statistics, I students will be taking similar there would be no problem of I courses on the Saint Mary's allowing exchange accommoda­I campus. The effect is co-edu­tions in the dining halls of the cation between the two institu­two institutions, according to tions," the letter continued. Father Jerome Wilson and 
I 
Thus, began the early day of Sister Basil Anthony O'Flynn. co-exchange classes. Regulations included that in They decided that at the end order to take a co-exchange of each year, an accounting 
class, the student must be a full would be made of courses and time Saint Mary's student of a meals taken on either campus
electives were to be taken at offered by their home institu­no longer segregated seating at 
part time student working for a and the necessary financial
Saint Mary's. No students tion. athletic events. The programs
degree at Saint Mary's , tuition adjustments would be made. 
could take more than two co-This program brought about involving studying abroad 
must be paid to the home cam­When the merger collapsed in 
exchange courses per semester many other changes in addition became co-exchange programs 
pus, and all co-exchange class­1971-72, the continuation of
at Notre Dame unless they to taking courses at a different as well. 

es taken were at he undergrad­the co-exchange was affirmed.
were in a major where most of institution. 

uate level. These regulations "In view of the plan, the
the courses were not available Saint Mary's students on the In 1965, when the program 
were all according to the min­University of Notre Dame and
at Saint Mary's. Dean's list would receive began, 96 students were 
utes of a meeting conducted by Saint Mary's College agree not
In 1970, joint degrees were Dean's list privileges at Notre involved. In 1966, enrollment 
Sister Mary Alma Peter. to become coeducational in
granted by Saint Mary's and Dame. Names of co-ex stu­in the co-exchange jumped to 
When more than two courses their programs, except through 
Notre Dame for the purpose of dents on the Dean's list were 186 students. It grew again 
were taken at Notre Dame by this Notre Dame-Saint Mary's
providing students with the sent to Notre Dame at the end from 269 students in 1967 to 
students above their major, consortium."
option to major in a subject not of each semester. There was 392 in 1968 to 1,366 in 1969. 
Report suggests Saint Mary's, Notre Dame go co-ed 
By lAURA FERGUSON Also, in the early 1970's, Saint Mary's cational energies that might weaken framework." The official name would Saint Mary's News Editor and Notre Dame were under strong both schools, especially Saint Mary's. become Saint Mary's College in the pressure to facilitate social interaction. University of Notre Dame, and would 
I
n December 1970, Rosemary Park. The Park-Mayhew report realized the Both institutions shared the fear that concentrate on a program primarily professor of education at Stanford "desire of contemporary youth to meet alumni loyalty might be endangered if designed for women. University and Lewis Mayhew, pro-freely in social and academic settings the they joined together and it might 
fessor of education at University of with young people of the opposite sex." also effect the supporting religious . Suggestions for this operation in the California traveled to Saint Mary's and orders. Park-Mayhew report were: Notre Dame to propose a plan which All private higher education institu­To avoid these possible dangers, the • the president of Saint Mary's would would change the two schools relation­tions were in jeopardy when competing Park-Mayhew Report presented several become a vice president at Notre Dame ships forever. with public education but also "it would options which might be feasible to both • the Board of Trustees would share 
This document, known as the Park­be unfortunate indeed if the University institutions. joint memberships Mayhew Report, suggested to the of Notre Dame felt compelled to take It suggested the possibility of a Co­• the registrar and admission offices Boards of Trustees to merge the two educational structure. Since neither would become single units operating neighboring institutions, creating a uni­could return to isolation. Notre Dame with a unified budget. fied force in Catholic higher education would more likely turn into co-educa­• food services would function sepa­with Saint Mary's operating as a sepa­tional school. Or Saint Mary's could go rately but students would be able to eas­rate college with the University primari­(saint Mary's should join co-ed and directly compete with Notre ily eat at both facilities. ly devoted to the education of women. Notre Dame as a sepa­Dame. According to the report, this • security forces would join 
The rationale behind this proposal rate and distinctive would have been an unfortunate option. •a religious life joint committee would was that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Saint Mary's could also continue as a be formed rather than a joint, integrat­
entity operating within the 

had existed side by side for 125 years women's college, and face a drop in ed campus ministry 
larger. University framework' 

and shared the same religious and cul­10 enrollment, perhaps down 600 or 700 • most academic departments would tural traditions and educational values W' students. merge with representative faculty from which reinforced their close, warm and "A drop in enrollment or in quality of both schools. mutually respecting relationship. a student at Saint Mary's would seem to • academic degrees would be awarded 
This unification proposal aimed to unilateral action and become a co-edu­be a result of a Notre Dame decision to by the institution at which a student meet the financial and organizational cational institution, thus entering into become co-ed. Such a prediction is matriculates. However, students would .. problems of both schools and to enrich direct competition for Saint Mary's," the based on an estimate of the number of be entitled to take majors offered by the programs of study for more sophisti­report said. girls who attended Saint Mary's because either institution though obliged to com­cated students. According to a Saint Mary's press its is close to Notre Dame and who plete the degree requirements of the release in regards to the Park-Mayhew would like to receive a Notre Dame institution in which they matriculate. T
he Park-Mayhew report also Report on March 3, 1971, the merger degree," the report read. According to the report, this proposal hoped to avoid duplications of was, as a consensus of the whole College is only viable if "each campus can create services and efforts in areas communities opinions, "in the best 0ther options included preserving and maintain a distinctive educational such as admissions. development and interests of the College, we MUST go the status quo or Notre Dame mission while at the same time con­registration through more effective forward with Notre Dame" it also could absorb Saint Mary's alto-tributing appropriately to the education­coordination and to avoid duplications "accepted the Park-Mayhew Report" as gether. al mission of the other campus." in the curriculum. It stated that each the basis for negotiation with Notre Saint Mary's would then become a "Saint Mary's and Notre Dame could institution has strengths and weakness­Dame to reaffirm Saint Mary's commit­lower division campus of mostly under­be on the verge of developing a new and es to be shared.. ment to a belief in the benefits to stu­graduates for Arts and Letters, science different saga for joint institutions which Both institutions had begun successful dents which arise from diversity in aca­students or campus housing for the law would be able to perpetrate the two dis­cooperation and coordination of activi­demic programs. and business schools. tinctive traditions yet become increas­ties despite initial friction between the "Such a conception would of course be ingly responsive to the needs of a society two communities, according to the Saint Mary's feared that the merger repugnant to the faculty and adminis­radically changed," the report said. report. would endanger the sense of community tration of Saint Mary's and would very 
Editor's Note: 
At this time, both schools were and tranquillity which was characteris­likely be rejected by the Board of 

This section is the fifth ofsix special sections
involved in a cooperative exchange pro­tic of Saint Mary's, however, and that Trustees and the Congregation of the 

commemorating Saint Mary's College and its
gram which allowed students to take the alliance with professionalized facul­Sisters of the Holy Cross," according to courses on both campus. It was suc­ty from Notre Dame would distort the the report. Saint Mary's must insure to 

150-year tradition. 
Special thanks are given to Sister Rosaleen Dunleavy and Sister Monica Wagner of 
cessful but still did not have a complete­humanizing and liberalizing focus on retain its identity and still offer viable 
ly free flow of students between the Saint Mary's curriculum. and reasonable comprehensive under­

College Archives.
schools and there was some resistance graduate program designed primarily by the staff. In turn, Notre Dame feared that closer for women. According to the Park-Mayhew relationships with Saint Mary's would The main proposal of the report was 

EDITOR: Jennifer Habrych Report, neither Notre Dame nor Saint serve to weaken the thrust for academic that "Saint Mary's should join Notre 
PRODUCTION: Lynn Bauwens Mary's could return to its previous isola­excellence and that the fusion of the Dame as a separate and distinctive enti­
GRAPHICS: Chris Weirup tion. schools would distort and dissipate edu-ty operating within the larger University 

---=---------=-----=-----_---~----_--------_-----=­ACCENT 
Wednesday, March 30, 1994 page 9 
Billy Joel 'Goes to Extremes' in concert 
By DAVID lYLER climbing stage scaffolding dur­four songs from River of everything else; sang played Road," was as magical as the Music Critic ing "Its Still Rock and Roll to Dreams turned up all night. But guitar, percussion, saxophone original, and surprising as well. 
Me," and played the piano with no one in the arena, least of all and even harmonica. John Joel hinted that he and John 
In an age when a new band of his posterior during "I Go to Billy Joel, seemed to mind. Burris brought beef to songs may appear on the road togeth­the moment pops up almost Extremes." Songs like "Scenes from an "We Didn't Start the Fire," and er for a few summer shows. He hourly, its nice to know that Attention to the small things Italian Restaurant," "Goodnight "Big Shot" with his strong, but gave no dates. some things 
helped fuel the fire that Joel Saigon," 
and "Angry Young unobtrusive guitar work. When in the music was creating. After opening the Man" were brought to the full Joel was hopping around stage, Joel left the ivories behind for world remain show with "No Man's Land," life Joel intended for them oardist David Rosenthal "An Innocent Man" as he relatively and "Pressure," he shouted out recalled the Summer of Love, constant. For the customary "Hello ~-not graduating from high twenty years Indianapolis!" But then he did school, and encountering his now Billy Joel something no one in the crowd doubters after his rise to fame. has been could have expected. Knowing "It always something like 'Hey entertaining full well were he was, Joel Billy, remember me? Can I bor­
Billy Joel 

audiences all launched into John row fifty thousand dollars?'" he over the world. Sunday night in Mellencamp's "Jack and Diane" said in thick Long Islandese. Indianapolis, he proved to a letting the Hoosiers in atten­While the audience may have frenzied crowd at the sold out dance know that this Long roared, there was no doubting 
Market Square Arena that some Islander was no stranger to that Billy Joel is a man who things in the fickle world of their loyalties. enjoys the success he has rock and roll do get better with earned. age. Several similar polished And when the master show­
The River of Dreams Tour, touches dotted the set. Joel man closed his evening right on promoting Joel's latest album of played Beethoven's "Ode to time with the now traditional the same name, is his first in Joy," before dusting off his old "Piano Man," the crowd was almost three years. Any rust crowd pleaser "My Life," and willing to follow the man that the Piano Man and his he slipped the Doo-Wop classic through a roaring fire. He had excellent touring band had is "The Lion Sleeps Tonight" into shown off all of the ability that long gone. On this tour Joel is "River of Dreams" without any has kept him popular for twen­not giving concerts, he is giving effort at all. For a guy who ty plus years: his gift for bring­command performances. never graduated from high ing the struggles of Everyman school, Billy Joel is certainly to life in song, his virtuosity on 
On Sunday, musicianship and well versed in the classics. the piano, his masterful song showmanship carried Joel Over time he has translated writing, his amazing stage pres­through his two hour long set. that knowledge into some of the ence. How long can he go? He He carefully ushered his audi­most memorable works of the through his piano playing and filled in admirably. offered some hint, in a jab at ence like a trail guide, taking rock and roll era. Joel's sensi­the aggression with which the The band spent the large part his present and past successes. those in attendance to new tivity to orchestration, con­band attacked them. There of the evening turning songs heights, after letting them stop sciousness of tempo, and atten­were times during the night like "Only the Good Die Young," "People ask me 'Why are you briefly to rest. You could feel tion to lyricism are reminiscent when drummer Liberty Divito and "You May Be Right" into still around? This is the age of the performance gathering of Gershwin and Beethoven. He resembled Animal from the monstrous showcases for all the alternative!' They forget I've speed as each song progressed can draw soulfulness from Muppet Show more than he did showmanship that Joel could been alternative forever. I was and the performer seemed R&B, or rock out with best of a real drummer. He and session muster. The most poignant an alternative to disco." ready and willing to throw cau­them. On stage in Indy, Joel un­legend bassist T-Bone Wolk moments of the evening came After watching Billy Joel work tion to the wind. Joel bounced leashed these works in a fiery formed a rock solid rhythm sec­when the now forty-four year his magic, it's equally hilarious around the stage effortlessly, blitzkrieg of music that never tion that drove the songs as if old was away from what might to consider comparing him to twirling his microphone and seemed to end. they were fine automobiles. The be considered his element. His anyone today. He's gotten bet­slapping hands with the front The show ended up being a talented Crystal Taliferro and stirring rendition of Elton ter with age, and left everyone row throng. He even started Billy Joel nostalgia fest, as only Mark Rivera did just about John's "Good-bye Yellow-Brick else behind. 
By JENNIFER GUERIN accordingly. Notre Dame, as a contact be­chose to focus their proposal on committed themselves to the Accent Writer Divided into a variety of tween student volunteers and service coordinator positions development of service on their working committees, each with the Center. instead of seeking funds to campuses. Notre Dame's 
One week after President their own objectives, the steer­If approved, the new project place students directly with C.S.C., however, will be in­Clinton signed the National and ing committee which met in will place approximately 20 agencies. strumental in the technical im­Community Service Trust Act September has worked since service learning coordinators in "As an institution of higher plementation of the program on September 21, 1993, the the fall to follow the progress of up to five Indiana cities where education, it seemed that we and training of the service University of Notre Dame called the Act, make known its sup­institutions of higher learning could not dump student volun­its first meeting of its own com­port and concerns, and seek exist, and have demonstrated teers into the community with­mittee for National and available funding for new pro­an interest in expanding service out building up the infrastruc­
' As an institution of 
Community Service. grams. programs for their students. ture," Royer explained. 
higher education, it 

Gathering representatives Among these working com­Service learning coordinators, Agencies, who are constantly from the ND/SMC community, mittees is the Partnership com­said Royer, "would provide the seeking volunteers, may not be seemed that we could as well as community service mittee, chaired by Kathy Royer, possibility for real service able to provide students with ,.
not dump student volun­
agencies and organizations, the the Coordinator of Service and learning to take place, which the structure, support and South Bend School Corporation Social Action Groups at the agencies don't have time or training to make their experi­teers into the community and the office of Indiana Center for Social Concerns, and money to do right now." ence more than a mechanical 
without building up the 
Congressman Tim Roemer, the junior Luke Williams. The stu­one. In developing the current steering committee crowded dent leader for volunteers at Service learning, Royer ex­proposal, which is to be submit­infrastructure.' around a makeshift meeting the Logan Center in South plained, is a way of combining ted to Americorps by April 23, table in the coffeehouse at the Bend, Williams has developed formal academic education Royer and Williams considered 
Kathy Royer 

Center for Social Concerns. strong ties with comJlmunity with active, direct service. An what they could do to best build 
C.S.C. Service Coordinator 
Responding to the Service Act's service agencies that have example of this kind of learning up the infrastructure and bene­goal of tackling the nation's served him well in his work is visible in Notre Dame's sum­fit students. problems "by mobilizing with Royer. mer service projects, which are Undergraduates have been learning coordinators. The Americans of every back­Together, Royer and Williams offered in conjunction with a instrumental in the University's staff at the Center, according to ground, in particular young have developed a proposal that Theology and Community National and Community Royer, "is one of the deepest people, in service to our com­will be submitted to a national Service follow-up course for Service Steering Committee, resources as far as service munities and country," commit­entity called Americorps, in students. The course provides serving on it and on several of learning goes." tee members expressed both connection with five other a structured setting for their the working committees estab­curiosity and enthusiasm. Indiana colleges and universi­reflection and learning. lished in the fall. The Center If the proposal is accepted, 
Support for the president's ties. The proposal will seek Royer strongly believes that for Social Concerns Student the University will be informed attempts to promote voluntary funding to expand the Notre service learning coordinators Advisory Board has provided in June, and begin implemen­service work among young peo­Dame model project established play an essential part in en­the Partnership committee with tation of the project in the fall ple across the nation was two years ago with a grant hancing the experiences of stu­input as well, demonstrating of 1994. Royer is confident that assured, but how would the from the previously existing dent volunteers. "The most that students are interested and if the proposal is not funded by committee respond to the new Commission on National and important thing is that they informed about the possibilities Americorps, the University will legislation? The ND/SMC com­Community Service. begin to learn ... so that they of service learning. still seek funding and support munity, historically rich in vol­That project, which created don't go away with 'half an ex­The current proposal will be for the development of a similar unteer and service experience, the position of Service Learning perience," she explained. submitted to Americorps under program. The inevitable re­knew it could benefit from Coordinator at the Center for "Student volunteers are only the direction of Indiana Campus sults: "There will be more and Clinton's Act. The task was to the Homeless in South Bend, as good as the depth of their Compact, an association of more opportunities for students research, question, and act resulted in the placement of experience," continued Royer, Indiana colleges and universi­to be placed in agencies in 
Drew Buscareno, a graduate of explaining why Notre Dame ties whose presidents have South Bend," Royer said. 
Community gathers support for local service acts 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 30, 1994 
Hayes Vandy, 'Nova in rejuvenated NIT final 
continued from page 16 
Terri Kobata and Joy Battersby, an additional arm was added to the staff, as walk­on Trish Sorensen was pressed into pitching duty. 
Learning to work with new battery-mates has been an un­expected challenge for Hayes this season. 
"Our pitching is very limited right now because of the in­juries," Hayes admits. "Terri and Joy are both power pitch­ers; they throw very hard. With Carrie and Kara injured, we lost a lot of our finesse pitching. Trish has helped out a lot in that way." 
One of the most important roles for Hayes as the starting catcher is communicating be­tween the pitchers and the coaching staff. 
"Sara does a good job of han­dling the pitchers and their personalities," Miller said. "During the game, we commu­nicate with Sara to see how a pitcher is throwing. She knows when to go out and talk to someone. She also has a quick release and a strong arm." 
But Hayes is more than just a big bat in the line-up and a good arm in behind the plate. She has developed into one of the team's emotional leaders as well. 
"She is a vocal leader for the defense," Miller said. "She has a lot of presence and acts as a coach on the field." 
"I try to lead by example," Hayes said. "It's a matter of getting our emotions up and making the play." 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
As a former Manhattan coach, Steve Lappas has made a trip or two to Madison Square Gar­den. None like he will make Wednesday night, though. 
In his sec­ond year as head basket­ball coach at Villanova, Lappas has his Wildcats {19-12) in the champi­onship game . of the National Invitation Tournament against Vanderbilt (20-11). 
"I am well aware of the his­tory of teams that get to the NIT fmal and what they've gone on to do, and I'm also well aware that only two teams in the country finish the season with a win," Lap pas said before his team's fmal practice. 
"And, as glorious as our his­tory has been, Villanova has never won an NIT." 
For example, each of the NIT Final Four teams from last year -defending champion Min­nesota, Georgetown, Provi­dence and Alabama-Birming­ham -were in the NCAA tour­nament field this season. 
Villanova, the 1985 national champions, is led in scoring by sophomore Kerry Kittles with an average of 19.7, but the real difference for Lappas' young squad this year has been the play of freshmen Jason Lawson and Alvin Williams. 

"To be honest with you, if somebody had told me before the season, 'Here's 12 wins,' I wouldn't have played a game," Lappas said. "We were picked as a legitimate lOth place team in the Big East. Who knew Alvin Williams and Jason Law­son were going to be these kinds of players. You never know about freshmen. 
"That's the thing that made us a good or very good team ­these two guys coming on. The other three guys have been our constants," Lappas said. 
Williams has become the team's point guard, running the offense, while the 6-foot-6 Lawson has a an average of 
10.2 points and leads the team in rebounding with 6.7 a game, just ahead of Kittles 6.5. 
"We've improved tremen­dously in rebounding," Lapp as said. "And that's Jason. He fi­nally got the lead over Kittles, our two guard, and if your two guard leads you in rebounding, you're in trouble." 
In Vanderbilt, Villanova faces an excellent shooting team, led by Billy McCaffrey (21.1 ppg) and Ronnie McMahan (15.4 ppg). 
"We've shot well in halves," first-year coach Jan van Breda Kolff said. "We're a good shoot­ing team, and it's because of our ball movement. If you have patience on offense, you usually shoot at a higher percentage when you have the kind of shooters we do." 

Vanderbilt averages 46.4 per­cent from the field, compared with 43.6 percent for Villanova. Like Villanova, few expected Vanderbilt to come out of the Southeastern Conference with much of a season, and the skeptics just got more skeptical when the Commodores drew 
Oklahoma as their first-round NIT opponent. 
"When we went to Norman, Okla., for our first game, a lot of people didn't think we'd get this far. but if you look at the power ratings of these teams, Vanderbilt, Villanova and Georgia Tech were the top three in the field," van Breda Kolffsaid. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S everyday but sunday until 5:30pm 233-2342 NO ave & Howard 
Applications for 
SOPHOMORE CLASS COUNCIL (Class of '97) 
are available in the Student Government Office! 
April1-8 All applications due the 8th. 
Questions? Call John x1975 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST-LOST-LOST-LOST Gold Bracelet 
FOUND· GOLD AND BLACK WATCH AT STEPAN COURTS. FOR A GOOD TIME CALL MEAl ­273-5924. 
FOUND: I011Q gold necklace with small crucifix pendant Found in Debartolo student/faculty meeting room 158. Call 4-1675 to claim. 
• FOUND BOOK • "PEACEWORKS" found in B1 lot behind the Univ.Ciub call#8210 to claim 
Found Money in Riley, third floor Contact Katie, 277 6703 
LOST-LOST-LOST-LOST Gold Bracelet 
••••Found -Cassette Tape•••• 
I found a 'greatest hits' tape Friday 
night in the faculty parking lot in 
front of Stepan. It was in a Camelot 
Music bag. Call me and identify the 
lame artist on the tape and I may 
give it back to you, along with a lec­
ture on music. 
Ryan --288-3952 
WANTED 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­0219 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For Info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
Summer Resort Jobs -Earn to $12/hr.+ tips. Locations include: Hawaii, Florida, Rocky Mountains, Alaska, New England, etc. for details call: 1-800-807-5950 ext. R5584. 
Jordan's Ford, Toyota, Volvo, Mistubishi in Mishawaka is currently seeking a Campus Representative to aid in the process of sales throughout our dealership. Commission based position. Interested parties please contact Mr. Jim Hoffer at (219)259-1981 ext. 354. 
We need a ride to MN for Easter. Will pay gas & tolls. Call Brian or Kory 4-3049 
CAMPUS REP NEEDED NOW! GREAT PAY$$ MAINTAIN CO. CAMPUS BILLBOARD ADS CALL NOW! 708 297-7521 
COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­SON, coed Massachusetts. Swimming, tennis, land/water sports, arts/crafts, theatre, wood­working, rocketry, archery, comput­er, yearbook, photography, video, radio, morel Super kids, great food, friendly, fun! No general coun­selors. 800·955-CAMP. 
Female roomate (or roomates if you don't mind sharing a room) needed for a Castle Point apart­ment First semester only! If interested, call Val at 271 -7817 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C6675 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN· TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 ext A29. 
SUMMER LIFE GUARD We need 1 or 2 fully-certified life­guards for our miniature wave pool In Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr. Complete season hours. Season 5/25/94-Labor day, 1994. Weekends only alter school starts. Call Jim Wyllie 277-1335. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT ·Earn up to $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584 
CO-ED SUMMER CAMP IN MAINE seeks staff from 6·17 to 8·21 to teach athletics, tennis, ropes cours­es, rock climbing, backpacking, swimming, fishing, sailing, waterski­ing, performing arts and many more. Age 20+. Contact Camp Wekeela's winter office at 1-800­959·3177. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS 
(219)291-7153 
COLLEGE PARK 
CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library -New appliances -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -Washer & Dryer units -Large closets -Covered parking -Security System -Large balconies 
nits now available­
$660 per month ..... Going Quickly!! ****"***CALL: 272-0691 ********"* 
1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES. 
NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW & FALL STARTING AT $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER­TIES.272-6306 
TuRTLE CRK TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER CALL 273-6564 FOR INFO 
Wrigleyville Apartment -Avail. May 1, Lg 3 BR in graystone two flat, new kitchen with d/w, new bath, hardwood floors, easy street prkg, near el. WID incl. 1 080/mo 312/472-7775 Louis '84 
FOR SALE 
Macintosh Classic, lmagewriter printer, system 7 and tons of soft­ware: Word, Page, Excel... 
$500 or best offer @273-3920 
HOUSE4 SALE 
1.5 miles from campus; 3 bedroom fenced yard; very clean; great, safe neighborhood on Northwood Dr. $48,500. Call288-7490. 
IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS REALTY 272-6306,232-1466 
For Sale: Commodore 128 w/ printer and software. $250 or your best offer. Must sell now! Call Heidi x4046 
College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath, w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to 
P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN 46634 
TICKETS 
1-Way, INDY/ORUNAPLES, $175 Local219-654-7222 or 219-654· 3477 
HEY SENIORS!II HELP I need extra graduation tix. call Keary at 233-5591 
PERSONAL 
Math tutoring available .... Senior honors math major will tutor any 100 or 200-level math courses, possibly higher levels as well. Times and rates negotiable. Call Jeff @ 277-5612 

FUNI FUN! FUNI FUNI FUNI 
live dinner theater with catered food, an excellent play by NEIL SIMON and lots of FUN FUN FUN! 
All this for a mere 8 bucks. 
Come on, you know you want to. 
Get TIX early at the LaFortune INFODESKI!! don't miss the fun fun fun fun fun!ll 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ Thoughts from NDE#31 
1. 
Guilt is a Mazda Miata to God 

2. 
Yuk buckets! 

3. 
Helloooool 


4. 
Faith is like a muscle-the more you use it, the stronger it gets. 

5. 
Ding!DingiDing!Ding!Ding! 

6. 
The cultural and economic cen­ter of Western Kansas has nothing to do with NDE any more-the Cox family is moving to South Dakota. 

7. 
Christian aerobics, anyone? 

8. 
George says, "Save the Everglades." 

9. 
Wade in the water, children! 

1
0. May the fish be with you 


See y'all tonightl Whoop, Texas! In His Love, Jen & Lynn 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
We are a young white Christian couple in their thirties, who live far away from the busy city life on 2000 acres. Tremendous amount of love is waiting for the special child we look forward to adopting. Call Brent or Tina at 1-800-206-7727. 
ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club Members: No class this Thursday. We are going to Willowbrook Sunday April10! Information will be forthcoming. Ques? Call Laurie 4­3490. 
MEG-you are down to just 41 the countdown continues! 
Happy (belated) birthday SALLY JAMESON!!!!!!!!! go crazy you crazy gal from Jersey! Love, your friends on 4th floor Lewis Hey everybody! give SALLY JAMESON a big birthday smooch for her belated 20th birthday!! 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune Student Center is now accepting applications for part-time employment beginning immediately and continuing through next school year. If interested, stop in and apply. 
Looking for a ride to Cleveland, OH for Easter and can leave Thursday morning. I will help out with expenses ...can you help me? Thanks! Call Mara at 284-5117 
MARCIA, MARCIA, MARCIA!!!!!! 
I change by not changing at all 
Hey Noreen, Janet, Rejane!! 
Come with us to the dinner theater April 71 See ya at 6:00. 
Oh yeah, don't forget to get tickets early at the LaFortune lnfoDesk. (Just $8 for a super-nice catered dinner and a show-what a deal!) 
Can't wait!!! 
Love, Julie and Bridget 
chest pains persist but I am no longer disconcerted. you are gooey wonderful. have a wild easter. 
p.s.s.s. · love that coat 

Wednesday, March 30, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
SMC tennis streak challenged Ceponis leads men's 
By TARA KRULL Cosgrove, the Belles' number Pflum however, the Belles have Spans Writer one singles player, has had a been working on focusing men­
volleyball to ranking
great beginning to this season tally to remain in the game. 

The Saint Mary's tennis team, as well, with only one loss, suf­6-1, hopes to continue their fered during Spring Break in winning ways tomorrow at Hilton Head. home when they take on Calvin Saint Mary's has also been College at 3:00 p.m. The Belles submitted recently for a na­were defeated by Calvin last tional ranking. They are still year 5-4. However, the entire anticipating their invitiation to team is optimistic about tomor­the Midwest Invitational next row's match, according to ju­month which will ultimately de­nior Robin Hrycko. termine their chance at a bid 
"We're up for the challenge," for nationals. A win against Hrycko said. "We don't know Calvin will help influence an in­too much about Calvin, but vite. we're a lot stronger this year Hrycko added that the Belles than we were last year when have had a long time off be­we lost to them." tween all of their matches this 
Hrycko and senior teammate year. The team sees this as a Thayma Darby comprise the challenge because it makes it Belles' number two doubles difficult for them to remain fo­pair. At this point, they stand cused in a competitive sense. undefeated at 7-0. Senior Mary According to junior Maryse 
,---------------------, 
iS~*?~ 
I 
®IK @. ll ®IK ill~ ~
I I 
JPI1~ ll )1\1]1 J:1J~ \W£ J:1JIK SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 11:00 AM AT STEPAN CENTER ROAD 
T-SifiRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $3.00 IN ADVANCE $5.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT .~\ 
©lKOlliT~'1r~ IT~ ~ill)]L )J. 
SPONSORED BY . I L ~~ ~~·-I 
---------------------~ 
This will prove to be essential 
in the Belles' to defeat Calvin. 
"We're in good shape physi­
cally," Pflum said. "I think that 
this, along with our improved 
mental focusing will help our _overall team performance." 
Junior Andrea Ayres agreed, 
noting that everybody looks and 
feels strong while playing. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
By G.R. NELSON 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's vol­leyball has ascended into the rankings and are currently ranked 22nd in the nation. 
This reward did not come without hard work. The Irish (12-2) finished an impressive fifth at the regional tournament this weekend, losing only to eventual champion Iowa St. 


"We showed we can compete with the best," said a pleased coach Jennifer Slosar. 
The Irish opened with Ohio Wesleyan Friday night and emerged victorious, 15-8, 15­
13. Captain Brian Ceponis chipped in with eleven kills and sophomore Miguel Ascencio added seven. 
The Irish then disposed of Wheaton 15-9, 15-5. Ceponis had ten kills, Ascencio seven, and junior Matt Strottman six. 
After that, Notre Dame bat­tled Michigan St. 11-15, 15-11 in a rematch of last week's Irish victory. Ceponis had nine kills, Strottman seven, Ascencio six, and senior Tom Kovats four. 
The second game was a thing of beauty. "It was an almost perfect game for us," com­mented Ceponis. The Irish edged Michigan St. on a tie breaker to earn first place in their pool. 
After a bye on Saturday, the 
Irish faced Michigan Tech in an 
elimination game and won 15­
12, 4-15, 15-6. Ceponis was 
nearly unstoppable with seven­
teen kills, Strottman and As­
cencio added eight each. 
Senior Leo Casas had several 
big digs that were instrumental 
in recapturing the momentum. 
The Irish then succumbed to a 
strong Iowa St. squad 15-10, 
15-7. Ceponis had twelve kills, 
Ascencio eight, and Casas 
seven. 
Brian Ceponis was voted first team all-tournament for the second consecutive year. 
c;J J\ lLl-~~0)~ @:[!~~~ aa~ =3~~~ i saa 
:£etEL-i;-a1:r:i.::a1g. :E S:~ .A.:£:£EL:i.:r 

d.;a,y .A.p:a·:i.1 :1.5 ;a,-I; -.:7~EC»~ S EC»~ 
• 

-$10.00 per person­-$15.00 per couple-Tickets go on sale April& at Lafortune Information Desk -Free Food­-Cash Bar­[?01JUZI9 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 30, 1994 
Around the horn: Irish infield headed for success 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports W rirer 
By the end of the season, they should prove to be one of Pat Murphy's biggest assets. 
Sophomore Robbie Kent, senior Greg Layson, junior Paul Failla, and senior Matt Haas are four of the most experi­enced members of the 1994 squad, but all four saw limited playing time at their current positions last year. 
While they will be up to speed by the time tournament play rolls around, the Irish infield has struggled in the early part ofthe season. 
Murphy explains the situation as a bad case of the rusties. 
"The infield is an older group, but they're still not a settled group. Haas has only played third base half a year. Failla has been splitting time between football and baseball and hasn't settled in at shortstop. 
"Layson has been the mainstay at sec­ond base when he's healthy. Kent's never really played much first base," said Murphy. "They're still not com­fortable totally. They're just not ready yet. They're rusty." · 
Part of this unreadiness comes from having to practice indoors. The even surface of Loftus Center does little to prepare the infielders for the bad hops and the uneven terrain associated with natural surfaces. 
Prior to the LaSalle series, the Irish had posted only two error-free games out of nine. Fourteen of the 16 team errors were attributed to the infielders. A few days of outdoors practice last week resulted in improved perfor­mances last weekend against LaSalle with only one infield error registered. 
Once this infield shakes off the rust and the errors, they'll be a driving force behind the success of the whole team. Their potential is vast as evidenced by past performances, but largely untapped. 
Starting on the left side, Haas is a rela-
On The Left Side . .. 

• 
Hoosiers 
continued from page 16 
After a successful series against LaSalle last weekend, the Irish should be prepared to take on Indiana's chal­lenge. 
On the mound for Notre Dame will be senior lefty Tom Price (3-2, 2.80, 24 K). Price, the ace of the Irish staff, finally gave up a walk against LaSalle last weekend after over 30 innings of walk-free pitching. 
Depending on who pitched yesterday in Indiana's game against Indiana State, the Irish will face either senior lefthander Bob Scafa (4-1, 2.68, 32 K) or junior righthander Scott Mudd (4-1, 5.31, 27 K). 
tive newcomer to third base. Last year, he was started 56 games, but was used as more of an infield utility man seeing time at third, first, and behind the plate. 
Haas says the move to third has been relatively easy even though he hadn't played the position since sophomore year in high school. 
"I worked hard on it in the fall and the preseason and I'm feeling real comfort­able there now," said Haas who adds that his only weakness right now is turning double plays. "It's the aspect of my game I need to work on the most." 
In addition to his defensive contribu­tions, Haas is also a team leader at the plate. 
He made the leap from an average hit­ter to a consistent hitter in the latter half of the 1993 season. In the last 22 games of last year, he racked up a .533 batting average, hitting safely in 19 of those contests. His bat was especially productive in the NCAA regionals, earn­ing the junior all-NCAA eastern regional honors after going 11-for-20 with 10 run batted in, a double, a triple and a home run. 
He made a mental adjustment midsea­son last year after watching his playing time dwindle down to nothing. 
"I decided to take it one bat at a time," explained Haas. "I was hitting too many balls in the air and I'm more of a line drive type of hitter." 
So far this year, the third baseman has continued what he started at the end of last year. He leads the regular starters with a .405 batting average and is tied for the team-lead in doubles with four. In the LaSalle doubleheader, Haas con­tributed 5-for-7 hitting, two doubles and six runs batted in. 
Filling the shortstop slot full-time is Failla who has been a part-timer the last two years. For his junior year, he decided not to pursue both football and baseball in the spring as he has in years past. The main reason for this is the draft. Baseball America picked him as the projected 22nd pick in the college 

ON THE RIGHT SIDE . •• 


draft with a strong spring this pre­season prediction could become a reali­ty, but only if his performance improves. 
Not participating in fall baseball camp and splitting time between the two sports last spring has cost Failla in the field and his return to baseball this spring has been plagued by miscues. He has committed a team-high nine errors so far this spring. 
Although his defensive performance has lagged thus far, Murphy is confident Failla will catch up quickly. 
"No secret about it, he hasn't played well, but I think he'll step up and I think he'll play the way we've seen him play before. I think the fact that he doesn't have to run back to spring football will help him make that adjustment quick­er," said Murphy. 
His return to form at the plate has been much smoother. Currently he is hitting .256 with two doubles and against LaSalle he went 4-for-8 and drove in a run. A few more outings like last weekend and he'll match his num­bers from last year: .346, 15 doubles and 45 RBis. 
Turning double plays with Failla will be Layson at second base. The senior has been plagued by injuries in the last two years and didn't play full time until the end of last year. 
As a sophomore, Layson played in only 43 games because of a broken bone in his right foot and should problems resulting from reconstructive surgery the previous summer. Last year, he tore a muscle in his other foot in early April and missed two weeks, but played in 47 games all season. 
The injuries were frustrating for Layson, but he has learned to deal with playing with pain. Now, he concentrates more on improving. 
''I'm not perfect. Not even close. Theoretically, to be perfect is out of reach," said Layson. "I work hard every day on everything." 
Despite missing a quarter of the games in the last two years, Layson's defensive 


Sophomore Robbie Kent 

on double play turns, but his range at sec­ond is considerable and his glove is reli­able. 
Murphy thinks this reliability makes Layson get lost in the crowd. 
"We forget Layson sometimes because he's so damn steady. Layson's been great," said Murphy. "He'll surprise you with a home run, steal bases, and kill you with the glove." 
Layson's bat is as steady as his glove. A career .325 hitter at Notre Dame, he is hitting . 311 this year with 10 runs scored and five stolen bases. Layson currently ranks third on the Irish career stolen base list and is only four steals away from passing Dan Bautch. 
Rounding out the infield is Kent, the youngest member of the group. Last year, he spent a significant amount of time filling in for Failla at shortstop when he was missing due to football, but Kent is a newcomer to first base. 
Defining the quintessential utility play­er, Kent notched starts at all four infield positions in his first year, but earned the regular start at first after a strong show­ing in the preseason. So far, he has been solid at first committing only two errors this season. 
To say Kent is enjoying his assignment to first base would be an understate­ment. 
"I love it," explained Kent simply. He has only encountered one problem with his new position. 
"Honestly, being short poses a prob­lem. People are usually used to a tall first baseman and like to throw high," explains the 5'10" Kent, who remedies the problem with a lot of leaping. 
Another reason for having Kent in the lineup on a day to day basis is his bat. The sophomore is currently hitting .400 with 11 RBis, three doubles and a home run. He has registered a hit in every game this season for an 11-game hit streak. 
When all four are in top form, the Irish infield will be a tough group to beat. 
Notre Dame's lineup card features junior Bob Lisanti behind the plate, sophomore Robbie Kent at first base, senior Greg Layson at second base, junior Paul Failla at shortstop and senior Matt Haas at third in the infield. 
The outfield includes sophomore Ryan Topham in right field, freshman Scott Sollmann in center field and sophomore Mark Mapes in left. 
Either sophomore George Restovich or junior Craig DeSensi will serve as the designated hitter in the game depending on the pitcher. 
Indiana returns a strong corps of sophomores and juniors who saw extended playing time last year and can hit the ball. 
Leading the sophomore bunch is infielder Kyle Kramer, who is hitting .413, outfielder Steve Smella, Indiana's power hitter, who is batting .360 with five doubles and six homeruns, and catcher Matt Braughler, who is hitting .358. 

Last weekend, the Hoosiers opened Big 10 play with a four-game series against Michigan. In the series, Kramer went 4-for-11 while juniors Clint Hickman and Marty Gazarek went 4-for-12 and 3-for-11 re­spectively. 
Indiana has posted wins over Louisville and Boston College this year while losing to Kentucky, Bradley and North Dakota. The Hoosiers two other losses came against Michigan, who split the four-game series with Indiana. 
Last year, Notre Dame and Indiana did not meet because both games were postponed due to rain. The last meeting between the two teams came in 1992 when the Irish bested the Hoosiers 4-1 at the Big Four Classic in Louisville, Kentucky. 
Wednesday, March 30, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
New assistants add to Irish program 
By DYLAN BARMMER goals for this program." Murphy. Sports Writer Schreiber was the top assistant at Forney has an established history in Butler University last year and prior to professional baseball, having spent six 
Historic Jake Kline Field has given his stint at Butler was a two-year assis­seasons as an accomplished outfielder way to the sparkling new Frank Eck tant at Ball State. in the Cincinnati Reds organization. Stadium, and several new faces will be Schreiber's duties with the Irish will While Forney has shared playing time in place in the Irish lineup. include working with the infield, with current major league stars such as 
While less apparent to the casual fan baserunning, and coordinating recruit­Eric Davis and Paul O'Neill, it was than the stadium and players, new ing. The coach seems to already have under Murphy that he began to blos­assistant coaches Doug Schreiber and endeared himself to the players. som. Jeff Forney may just turn out to be the "He's a real help, someone who can While Murphy was assistant coach at new additions which are most influen­watch our every move and work with us Florida Atlantic University, he recruited tial to the 1994 Irish team's success. in the infield," commented junior short­Forney who went on to become a Divi­
"They've been great," said Murphy of stop Paul Failla. "He has a great, sion II All-American. his new assistant coaches. "It's been a relaxed demeanor, yet knows how to get After deciding to end his professional great transition so far. We lost two his point across." playing career, the intense Forney got coaches in addition to several players, Schreiber himself is thrilled to be the call from Murphy yet again, this and it would have been a tougher tran­involved with the Notre Dame baseball time as a potential coach. sition if we didn't have great replace­program. He is working with the outfield, and is ments." "It's great to be a part of a program helping in the areas of hitting, baserun­
Murphy did not hesitate to express his like Notre Dame," mused Shreiber. "I've ning, strength and conditioning, and admiration of his new assistants, and he been able to learn a lot working with scouting. was also quick to point out that just Coach Murphy. Notre Dame baseball is Like Schreiber, Forney is enjoying his being at Notre Dame speaks volumes of a class organization with a winning tra­new job. their abilities. dition, and being able to contribute to "My time here so far has been great," 
"Our program is so established, the that tradition is a great experience." said Forney. "Coach Murphy has given candidates for the jobs are many," said Jeff Forney brings a different back­me the opportunity to use my knowl­Murphy. "I knew these gentlemen would ground to the Irish program, and has a edge of the game. I'm learning some­be loyal, and would understand my more long-term relationship with thing new every day." 

JOCK STRIP 
Ken t-o-Meters, Domer Hankies and other assorted traditions 
N
otre Dame's newest tradi­tion. 
Ever since plans were announced to build an on-campus stadium for the Notre Dame base­ball team, this has 


been Pat Murphy's Jenny Marten favorite sound bite. 
It seems kind of strange to be calling a sport which has been played on-campus for well over 100 years a new tradition. A new stadium can't make that big of a dif­ference. Or can it? 
Today marks the beginning of a new phase in the history of Notre Dame base­ball and the students have a chance to impact that history. Think of all the quirky little things we do at football games: passing people up the stands, shaking our keys for key plays, shaving our heads and painting our shorn domes gold, etc. They all have become part of the Notre Dame tradition. 
Now, the students have been given a clean slate. We, the students, are fully responsible for starting traditions at Eck Stadium. In this inaugural year, the options are endless. Here are just a few suggestions: 
The first tradition should be packing the 3,000 seats in the stadium. L.et's start a sell-out streak and make the Stadium the place to be when there's a game going on. College baseball is a funny sport because just when the season heats up with the MCC tournament and the region­als, all the students head home. 
By the time everyone gets back in the fall, baseball is long forgotten and replaced by talk of the gridiron. Most of the students don't realize how good our baseball team really is. They've got to come out and see for themselves. 
Once we have a full stadium, then we can really have some fun giving the Irish their first true home field advantage in many years. Just as Notre Dame Stadium has its mystique, so too can Eck Stadium. The students can help make other teams fear coming to play on our campus. 
Do you fmd yelling at players and refer­ees at the NCAA hoops tournament through the television unrewarding? Are you itching to dish out some verbal abuse up close and personal? Well, Indiana is bringing more than a dozen targets today plus the two umpires, as is every team that comes to South Bend this year. 
There are many ways to rattle an oppos­ing pitcher or distract opposing hitters. Once again, be as creative as you would like. Think of something zany, gather together a large group of friends and then try your idea out at any of the games. 
If you think telling Indiana starter Bob Scafa that his mother has a special fond­ness for farm animals is rather un­sportsmanlike, then focus your creative energies on supporting the Irish. Pick a player and start a fan club in the stands. Sollmann's Soulmates. Mapes' Minions. Failla's Faithful. 
Or support the Irish pitching staff with a strikeout counter. Or track the Irish bat­ting averages of Matt Haas and Robbie Kent with a Haas-o-Meter or a Kent-o­Meter. 
Instead of Homer Hankies, how about Domer Hankies? Wear rally caps. Do the wave. Cheer. Have fun. Enjoy. 
What we have been given is absolute creative license to start some new tradi­tions. Wouldn't it be cool to come back 20 years from now and see the students intimidating opponents with your original techniques? 
Irish baseball is a new tradition and the students are a part of it. So show the team your support in their new on-cam­pus home. · 
Stadiu01 
continued from page 16 
Murphy's dream became a reality. The $2 million sta­dium was financed in part by a $1 million gift from alumnus Frank Eck and his company, Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. of Columbus, Ohio. 
Eck has been a generous benefactor of the University, especially its athletic teams, underwriting the construc­tion of Eck Tennis Pavilion and now Eck Stadium. 
His familiarity with Irish baseball dates back to his days as a student at the University. As a freshman, he found himself in Jake Kline's freshmen engi­neering class and developed a respect for the baseball coach. Additionally, Kline 
INSIDE 
had grown up in the same town as Eck's father and their paths had crossed numerous times. 
Although he was an Irish baseball fan as a student, Eck was influenced even more by recent history and by head coach Murphy. An admirer of what Murphy has done with the program, Eck attributed getting to know the coach as one of the main reasons for be­coming involved in the sta­dium project. 
"Hearing his stories of his growing up, it seems like his destiny to be at Notre Dame, and I hope this will help him stay there and not be lured elsewhere," said Eck. 
Eck, who will throw out the first pitch at today's game, thinks his contribu­tion will help the team. 
"I think it should help us to 
EcK. • • 
consistently be a top-10 
team now and I'm sure that 
Coach Murphy is going to 
make that happen," said the 
1944 graduate. 
Eck Stadium definitely 
ranks as one of the premier 
college facilities in the 
Midwest with its plush lock­
er rooms, an assortment of 
meeting rooms and offices, 
and a large press box. The 
lighted playing field, illu­
minated by 158 light bulbs 
and named Jake Kline 
Field, is adjoined by four 
batting and pitching cages. 
The players are pleased 
with their new home. Long 
gone are the days of bus 
rides to and from Coveleski 
Stadium, and they now have 
lockers to call their own. 
"It's beautiful. It's un­
believable," said senior 
Greg Layson of the new sta­
dium. "The field is so top 
notch. It's a great thing to have it on campus and not having to travel over there. We have 34 home games this year and I'm looking forward to it." 
Although the new stadium has been well-received and is well-equipped, there are no plans to host the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament or an NCAA Regional in the near future. 
While this year's tour­nament will be played at Coveleski, the future loca­tion of the tournament is in doubt because six new members will be joining to conference after this year. These schools will decide as a conference where to hold the 1995 championship. 
So for now, Eck Stadium will be used only for the 34 home games, including today's inaugural game, slated for this spring. 

.. 

The Observer/Eric Ruethllng 
Sophomore Jason Pun continued his recent strong play at No. 6 singles yesterday, earning a 6-2, 2-6, 6-3 victory over LSU's Chad Dudley and improving to 17-1 on the year. 
Karen Wallace 
Lookin' Great! Happy Belated 
21st Birthday 
Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is now accepting applications for its next three entering classes. (September 1994, January 1995, April 1995) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
• 
Approx. 2-3 years of college in a a life or health science degree program. 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. Amore competitive G.P.A. is favored. 

• 
Apersonal interest in acareer as a primary care physician. 


Northwestern offers: 
• 
Aprofessional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12:1. 

• 
Awell-rounded education in Basic and Clinical Sciences, Diagnosis, X-ray, and Chiropractic. 

• 
Full accreditation by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 


-~ Call: 1-800-888-4777 or ~"'-\,}.] Write: Director ofAdmissions 
., ,,, ·;;;,.,,,• 2501 West 84th Street, Minneapolis, MN 55431 

The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 30, 1994 
Men's tennis falls to LSU 5-2 
Doubles 
lose two 
of three 
By PHIL LANGER Sports Writer 
Louisiana State University mercilessly took advantage of the 16th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team's worst dou­bles performance of the year to pull off a 5-2 upset yesterday afternoon at the Eck Pavilion. 
LSU, currently ranked No. 28 in the country, got a jump on the Irish courtesy of two dou­bles wins and then won four of six singles matches en route to the victory. Notre Dame falls to 16-6 on the season while the Tigers improve their mark to 7­7. 
"We've played a lot better than this," commented Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss. "I give LSU credit for coming to play. Our doubles left a lot to be desired. We definitely need to reassess our doubles person­al and find out what we have to execute better. It was the 
Guanllng Trees (PG13) t :45, 4:15,7Jl0, 9:30 Naked Gun 33 (PG13) 12:30,2:45,5:15, 7:45 Ace Ventura (PG13) 12:45, 3:00, 5:30, 8:00 
02: Mighty Ducks 2(PG) 1:00, 4:00, 6:45, 
9:15 . MaJor League 2(PG) 1:15,4:30,7:30, 10:00 The Paper (RI1 :30, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 Greedy(PG13) 10:00 
Jimmy HollyWood (R) 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 

worst effort at two and three doubles all season." 
The Irish fell behind 1-0 in the match as LSU won two of three doubles matches. The only Irish victories in singles came from fifth-year senior and team captain Andy Zurcher at the No. 1 singles slot and sophomore Jason Pun at No. 6 singles. 
Zurcher, presently the No. 26-ranked player in the coun­try, posted a 6-2, 2-6, 6-3 win over Janne Haltari while Pun had a 7-6, 7-5 win over Chad Dudley. Pun, last weekend's unlikely hero, now has a 17-1 record this season and a 10-1 mark at No. 6 singles. 
"We did fight extremely hard at singles," stated Bayliss. "Once the singles matches started I had no regrets con­cerning our poor doubles play. We played hard and they played hard. 
"Jason Pun is continuing to become a real winner for us," he added. "Andy [Zurcher] has without a doubt played sharper then he did today. Yet, he was still able to successfully pres­sure Haltari's forehand and, consequently, play the aggres­sive tennis style necessary to beat a player of that caliber." 
After yesterday's poor dou­bles performance, it has be­come evident that the three doubles teams need to review the basics which made them quite a triple threat early on in the season. 
"We must work on the dou­bles' fundamentals," remarked Bayliss. 
"It is crucial that we regain some of the basic tools which have helped us in the past such as attacking the opponents sec­ond serves, cutting down on lackadaisical unforced errors and serving with more preci­sion. Most of the work is indi­vidually different for each dou­bles player and team." 
Notre Dame won't have long to complete this refresher course. The Irish return to ac­tion on Saturday when they travel to West Virginia for a highly anticipated match with the Mountaineers. 


WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 8 & 9 
JACCCOURTS 

MEN'S & WOMEN'S DIVISIONS T-SHIRTS TO ALL PARTICIPANTS BRING YOUR OWN RACQUET BALLS WILL BE PROVIDED REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
R.EGISTER. IN ADVANCE ATR.ECSPOR. TS DEADLINE: THUR.SDA Y. APR.IL 7 $6.00FEE 
~~ 

For Questions, Comments or Suggestions 
Call the 
HONOR CODE HOTLINE at 631--6859 


Wednesday, March 30, 1994 
SPELUNKER 
WE INT£RUPr OUR S1UDtNT GOVERNMENT 
EXCITIN(n "REVENGTE HPrS CI\!.LeD FoR ft 
OF fH€ E'NEMA" BoYCoTT OF WE 005tRV 
S-roR'/UNE Forz CITINI"n WHAT IT SlXS A.S 
nilS H~RD TD A 1tlREA'I 10 adworkS 
Pwss-up oPPoR-AND t.IJP &c-holas·t"lc.. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~-----~~------------------~--~­
The Observer • TODAY 
JAY HOSLER  
A f'PAReNiv-( A G.IPP~R-FR E-(; UNI'/!<RSE. iSN'T PrS APPEAL IN (n 11J nt6M AS 11{€ RES! OF  YeAH, I  LIKE  
HANK  SI'CUINK8Z IS  ON  
R&MOTG  Wml SoMEON£ W+lo  
lt:rurru'/ V5~SFofl. l)j 1  th~ scholastic,oPINION ....  
BILL WATTERSON  



FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
,"'4\fit¥.; " .. No r2t.AcL'1 , "I 'ro StRLOUS "T~L'S~. THERE..S l3[AU~ 
p.,..o -y;.,.. l>'ORCS "8t.Au"'\. l-l•u. [Y\ "b<A"-Ar>.<-TP."~"\ PIT~,,.,~ o~"\3,E.AvT'-'\. No REA~l'-1. L\~E 
A\:>•1""\01""'. 1.-jt.A\-\ .. L·"-'-A ·' l:>•Arn•<' D l"' liic
D·PI(Y\'>ND··· t-\ 
\2ov<.\-\... l-1'-~ .... " 
f 


WI-1EN. \1 SN.ClWS, '{O\l Ci\N GO .. THE Ot'\L'{ 'SPClR\ IS I)R\'i\NG SLE\lD\NG. W\-\t:.\-1 \IS W\t'\D1', MOt<\ CRJ>.-Z.'{. '{o\J CAN !=L'{ K \IE'S. W\-\E.N lfS 
\

HOT, '10\l C~N Go SWIMMING. 



"Well, scratch No. 24. He did pretty good, though ­right up to the jet engine test." 
OF INTEREST 


DINING HALL 


JASON KELLY'S PICK 


, 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Twelve­("G.W.T.W." home) 
5 Cousin of the cobra a Pelt 12lnsomnia 
causes 14 Sausage, e.g. 16 Having no 
deferments 17"-akbar" (Arab cry) 18 The Sphinx and 
the Parthenon? 20 Available 22 Speech 
problem 23Till 24 Author Murdoch 26 Took the most 
credit 
28 Socks and Millie? 32 Popular Dutch export 33 Zero-shaped 34 Mr. Hulot's portrayer 36 Gossip-column snippet 38 Poe story setting 39 Piers 19 and 
20? 
41 Tony-winner Caldwell 43 Ending for tip or team 45 The Untouchables 46 Russian sea 47 Goneril's father 49 Two-spot and six-spot? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
51 Helter-­54 Problem for 
Superman 55 Unsafe, in a way 561982 
Stein/Piimpton biography sa Subject of 
Freudian study 61 20 cents? 640bloquy 66 Blueprint 67 Bald head 68 Cry from the 
sick ward 69 Barks 70 Town on Long 
Island Sound 71 Unclothe 
DOWN 
1 Seraglio room 2 Singer Guthrie 3 Potter's need 4 Kind of sense 5 Concert hall 
equipment 6 Bewhiskered 
animal 7 City of Light a-polloi 9 Light 
entertainments 10 Farm-gear 
pioneer 11 Sugar-coated 13 Nattily clad 15 Kind of test 19 Floral spike 21 Attraction at St. 
Peter's 25 Show alarm 


27 Squeal 46 Made sense 57 Prize since 28 Top 40 music 48 Gave a room a 
1948 face lift 59 River through
29 Budget rival 50 Hall-of-Fame Leeds 
30Jalopy 
Brave 60Chew (on)31 Notary public's 
51 Excessively 62 Years in 7-Down need 
sentimental 
63 Date 35 Exemplar 52-Lumpur 65 Country singer37 Lows 
53 Inflexibility McDaniel 39Jabbered 40 "No right-" 
Get answers to any three clues42 {~:gene,y's "On by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­44 conger 5656 (75¢ each minute). 





SPORTS 

page 16 Wednesday, March 30, 1994 
Wolverines' will provide more Junior catcher Sara Hayes, who as already shattered the Notre Dame mance IS due to her mcreased \han enough competition for rotation knocked down to just record for home runs in a season, has become a leader both on and off mental toughness. her squad. the field for the Irish. "The difference between Sara "This game in completely up see HAYES I page 10 
t 

looking to spoil grand 
•
open1ng 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Writer 
Indiana is the first visitor to the new Eck Stadium and the Hoosiers would like to spoil the inaugural Opening Day festivities with a victory. 
Irish coach Pat Murphy knows the Hoosiers (19-5) will be tough to beat, and that is why he picked them as the opponent for the home opener. 
"Anytime you're going to play a Bob Morgan team, you're going to play a team that's prepared," said Murphy. 
see HOOSIERS I page 13 

Coach Pat Murphy and the Irish christen EckStadium 
By JENNY MARTEN 
rivals, in the home Senior Sports Writer opener. Murphy is proud of 
When Pat Murphy the stadium, calling it took the job as Notre a "great showcase" Dame baseball coach and a "great symbol 
in 1987, one of the first things he did was have an architecture student draw a rendition of a baseball sta­dium to hang in his new office as an impetus to all who came in. 
Seven years later, the Irish have their own home, and the Notre Dame baseball team will inaugurate Eck Stadium today as it hosts Indiana, one of its oldest 
The tnSuuural Ope-~ing Day 

Hayes key to Irish success 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
It didn't take Sara Hayes long to establish herself as a leading hitter for the Notre Dame soft­ball team. 
As a freshman, she broke the Irish single season record for home runs with six. She has since broken the career records in homers, batting average, and doubles, and is on pace to smash all Irish single-season batting records this year. 
Just seventeen games into the season, Hayes has bettered her performance from last season. She has slugged eight home runs, has a career-high .423 batting average, 29 RBI, and an .817 slugging percentage. 
Both Hayes and her coaches 
The Observer/Jake Peters feel thi~ year's stron~ perfor­

this year as compared to last is her mental attitude at the plate," said coach Liz Miller. "Last season she tried to guess every pitch that was coming, and got frustrated. This year she is waiting for the pitch in her zone, and then she drives 
it... 

"I've worked a lot with coach Miller on improving the mental side of my game," Hayes said. 
"She's helped me to be aware of who I am and how much po­tential I have. I've gained a lot of confidence in my role on the team." 
The Irish will need Hayes to perform at the peak of her po­tential in today's home opener against Michigan. One of the toughest teams in the midwest region, Miller feels the 
of all the years of Notre Dame baseball," and he should be. It was Murphy who mentioned the idea of a stadium to everyone he knew and who made an on-campus facility one of his early coaching goals. 
But it was not until June 7, 1991 when the University announced plans for the 3,000 seat facility that 
see STADIUM I page 12 
Left field 331 feet Left center 381 feet Center field 401 feet Right center 381 feet Right field 331 feet 
Observer graphic/BRENDAN REGAN 
for grabs," Miller said. "Both teams have been playing the same up-and-down way this season. It will be a matter of who wants the game bad enough." 
"Its always exciting to play against regional competition," Hayes said. "I think we're all looking forward to playing dou­ble-headers a few times a week as opposed to tournaments, where you're playing seven games in three days." 
The extensive tournament play took its toll on the Irish, as injuries mounted. One of the most damaging was the season­ending injury suffered by start­ing pitcher Carrie Miller. The pitching staff was already short a hurler, losing Kara Brandenburger for the year to shoulder surgery. With the 





