
Wednesday, April6, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 117 TI-lt INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
New Guide makes strides 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 
When students returned from Easter break, they found a copy of the new edition of The Guide in their mailboxes. 
The second edition of this course and teacher evaluation book has undergone several changes since it was first pub­lished last semester, according to Heather Arnold, former chair of the Student Union Board Intellectual Life department. 
"We are experimenting with ways to make it better and more readable," said Arnold. 
In addition to providing an index of the professors who participated, The Guide com­mittee eliminated some statis­tics in order to make the book less complicated. 
Instead of reporting the actu­al number of fives, fours, threes, twos, or ones that a pro­fessor received as a rating, now The Guide only lists the average of those scores. 
"The numbers were confusing because there were so many on there," said Arnold. 
Evaluations of teaching assis­tants (T A's) and lab sections have also been taken out be­cause some professors com­plained. 
"It isn't fair to include (TA's or labs) on the evaluation of the course because professors have no control over them and the personnel change each year," said Arnold. 
fiji!  THE GUIDE Spring 1994  ... :f· ... ~ ..  THE GUIDE Fall1994  f  
lq  ,:<':: ~:: o actual number of each pro­fessor's 1 s, 2s, 3s, 4s, and 5s ::'·• provided '.;  o average score of each professor provided instead  
o TAs rated  o TAs not rated  
) /:  o 77 classes/sections o 59 professors  ··::}"/'<··  I\ ····•:•· :iii: .  o 101 classes/sections o 73 professors ·:.•:": :.~MiD~:.:=:=· > ..  [•  

.···· 
The Guide committee, co­chaired by Walsh senior Susan Petrovic and Knott junior Sara Skalicky, continued to research similar publications at other universities. 
"Every top twenty -five school has something like this. At most of them, they (the evaluation books) all started off slowly and then after the first few years they really took off," said Arnold. 
In future editions, The Guide committee hopes to include classes with under twenty-five students. Although statistics for these smaller classes are not included because of a possible skewing of results from the small sample, The Guide may present the students' written comments. 
"Next year we may also try to include course descriptions," said Arnold. 
However, the current Guide issue still needs to list a greater 

SURV looks to gauge support for growth 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Spes Unica Resource Center (SURV) is hop­ing to determine student sup­port for center expansion today through a campus-wide survey. 
Elizabeth Martin, coordinator of the student expansion group, said that expanding the mission of SURV is a step that can only be taken after consulting the Saint Mary's community. 
"We are trying to gauge stu­dent support for SURV center expansion. We have decided that SURV is good but inade­quate for the services students need," she said. 
Currently the center is only open a few hours each day, making it difficult to access services, according to Martin. 
SURV is a student-run orga­nization at Saint Mary's rely­ing primarily on the support of student volunteers to operate it. 
Kristin Johnson, director of SURV, said that the expansion group is "interested in enhanc­ing the service opportunities on campus." 
The group has been meeting for the last few months to dis­cuss plans to expand. 
"We've been getting our re­search together, we've sent in­formation to President Hickey and the head of the Sisters of the Holy Cross," said Martin. 
Martin hopes that the survey will determine whether or not students will benefit from SURV expansion. She feels stu­dent support is essential in takingthe next step. 
"If there is indeed support for expansion it will require a great deal of effort and time (from volunteers). So what we are doing is making sure it's something people want." 
"We want to know if they've ever used SURV before, if they know what it is, if they plan on using it," said Johnson. 
SURV will distribute one thousand surveys in the dining hall during lunch and dinner Wednesday and Thursday, and the group is hoping to reach approximately 48 percent of the student body. 
"We would like a majority re­sponse (to help facilitate the decision making process). We are going to be actively recruit­ing (support and membership) through the surveys." 
Students interested in helping with the expansion can attend a meeting on Sunday, April 10, at 8 p.m. in the Holy Cross par­lor. 

number of courses, especially electives, according to Patty Baniewicz, a Walsh junior and Arts and Letters pre-profes­sional major. 
"I think they need more elec­tives, like English courses, where you don't know what you're getting yourself into until you're into it," said Baniewicz. 
Brian Price, a Flanner junior, agrees. 
"I am a mechanical engineer, and there are only two mechanical engineering cours­es to choose from. They also need more electives," said Price. 
"I get most of my advice by asking seniors. They were a much better resource than The Guide," Price continued. 
Work has already begun on next semester's Guide, accord­ing to Arnold. Currently, posi­tions are being offered for a Guide co-chair and editors. 

Nixon reflects on the world of soap operas 
By LESLIE FIELD 
News Writer 
Education is a boon to the creative process, Agnes Nixon, creator of ABC television's "One Life to Live," "All My Children," and "Loving," told an enthusi­astic crowd last night at Saint Mary's 0' Laughlin Auditorium. 
Nixon focused her remarks on her personal history and discussed the world of soap op­eras through the eyes of their creators. "Soap operas are as different as the people who write them," she said. Nixon, who attended Saint Mary's College for two years, started her career as a writer over 
• see CAREER, page 4 
thirty years ago and has earned a reputation in her field as the best of those writers and cre­ators. 
Nixon attributed a lot of her ability as a writer to her child­hood. As an only child living with her mother, grandmother, and four aunts in Nashville, Nixon said that "I had my imag­ination as my playmate." Nixon, receiving many laughs and rounds of applause throughout her lecture, told the audience that for years she used to cut out people from the newspapers and give them each a different role to play. Essentially, she has been doing this her entire life. 
After graduating from Northwestern, Nixon wanted to act. However, felt that she would be more successful as a writer. She received her first job after graduation, immedi­ately working for a Soap Opera writer named Erma Phillips. She later worked for "The Golden Age of Television, " where she learned more about Soap Opera writing. Later, Nixon wrote for "Guiding Light." 
In 1968, she created her own soap opera entitled, "One Life to Live." This show helped to launch over 25 years of Nixon's creations. Nixon created the ever popular "All My Children" in 1970. Watched faithfully by the likes of Tommy Lee Jones and Charles Barkley, "All My Children" is the most taped show on television, according to Nixon. 
Nixon believes that people become engrossed in her soap operas because "Our stories are like a boomerang. It gets crazy and goes way out, but it always comes home." 
Nixon went on to discuss the importance of social issues in her work. As the first person to address any sort of social issue in a soap opera, Nixon com­mented that, "I believe learning can be entertaining. I'm proud of the fact that we are the 
see NIXON I page 4 


Castle Point raises rent $500 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Editor 
Students who applied for a 1994-95 Castle Point lease got a surprise in their mail last Friday as they received notification of a sizable rent increase. 
While the monthly rent of a two bedroom, loft, and den unit was $620 for four tenants dur­ing the 1993-94 year, it has in­creased to $1140 in the 1994­95 year. 
The increase, according to Castle Point representative Bob Otolski, is designed to cover the cost of a new policy that stu­dent renters must agree to. 
According to the new policy, all tenants who have a co-sign­er must rent a "Comfort Package" which includes apart­ment furnishings and a basic cable package. 
Characteristically all under­graduate and graduate stu­dents must have someone co­sign their lease. 
But many students who had submitted lease applications say they cannot afford the com­fort package and feel they are being treated unfairly by the complex. 
"By waiting so long to tell us of the increase, it's too late to get into another place because most are full by now," said Junior Brian Klem. "They are 


clearly discriminating against Prospective tenants have two students." possible routes of action to take 
But Otolski said the increase against the complex, he said. is entirely warranted, as rent at the complex has not gone up in They can either band togeth­seven years. er and file a class action law­
Last night Klem took a step in suit or "follow the civil-disobe­organizing his complaints dience route" by disrupting against Castle Point and held a business at the complex, he meeting designed to create a said. plan of action in combating the rent increase for all prospective As of yet, neither plan has 1994-95 tenants. been decided on, Klem said. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Stereo gre01lins strike 
•


again 
For the past six months, my stereo has been inhabit­ed by a gremlin-or some­thing. I don't know any­thing about stereos, except that they are supposed to play, and mine does not. 
It started in November, when it simply wouldn't 


play one of my discs. The  Katie Murphy  
disc would spin and whine  Associate News Editor  
and click, but no  music  
would  come  out of the  
 

speakers. We tried to clear the dust out of the CD holder-thing, but that didn't work. Then we tried to dust off the CD, inspecting it for scratched marks or something that would explain why it refused to play. Nothing. It was clean. 
For days after this it still wouldn't play. Click, click, whissh, click... over and over we repeat­edly tried new COs, tried shuffie, tried program­ming it. Nothing worked. It was broken. I was mad. I resolved to take it home for Christmas and have my dad fix it. 
Suddenly, however, the ridiculous thing perked up and decided to play-with no skips, no clicks. It worked perfectly! Astonished, I let it be-I would play one CD over and over just to keep it going. I left it at school over Christmas, convinced it was fine. Just to make sure, I dragged my brother over to Best Buy at home and explained the problem to the service man there... the culprit was probably dirt, he said. I could clean it, but that was no big deal-I expected that. 
I bought whatever you use to clean a CD play­er and returned to school, hopeful that I would fmally have access to good music in my room­but no such luck. Now the machine would play, but only for a second or two, and then it was o clicking and whooshing-all the old stuff. I was furious, and I rushed over to Best Buy again. 
I got there, and the thing worked fme. I could send it in for an estinate but that would cost $20. Then it would cost another $20 to send it in for the actual repairs, not to mention the cost of the labor and parts. This stereo was only worth $400 and I wasn't going to spend $100 flXing it. So back to school we went, disgusted and annoyed. 
In the next few weeks we would have good days and bad days. Sometimes it worked, other times it didn't. I got accustomed to listening to music with random skips and clicks in it, and I even developed a routine procedure to get the stereo to work. Open the top, brush away any invisible dust, clean off the CD, stick it back in, try the first song, try the second song, skip to the ninth song ... and so on, until it worked. On the days when both my CD player and I were having bad days, I changed this routine and instead decided to bang on it until it wouldn't pay at all. Or else I would make it spin until it gave up and started to play. 
Slowly, new problems have sprung up. Now my stereo will turn itself on in the middle of the night and begin to play the radio. It makes obnoxious noises when it rewinds. It refuses to memorize the radio channels I enter into mem­ory. The clock is out of control and the speakers alternatively go out. Now I just borrow Sheila's stereo.. and ever since, her CD player has been having trouble. Maybe it's just me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production 
Dave Tyler Kyle Green Edward Imbus Susan Marx Sports Accent Tim Seymour Patrice Miller 
Viewpoint Theresa Aleman 
Brian Seiler 

Lab Tech Graphics MacyHuckel Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 6, 1994 
WORLD AT AGLANCE ' 
Israel giv•~s up Gaza, allows return of Palestinian exiles 
JERICHO 

The first exiled leaders of the Palestinian uprising allowed to return home got a tumultuous hero's welcome Tuesday in the occupied territories. 
The returning exiles will help build an autonomy government in the West Bank and Gaza. Strip and try to dispel perceptions among Palestinians that the historic Israel-PLO peace accord has failed to bring change. 
"People are seeing some changes with their own eyes now. This has had more impact on the people than months of negotia­tions," said Saeb Erekat, a senior PLO figure in the occupied territo­ries. 
Crowds lined the road to Gaza, waving black and white checked kafiyyahs, the Palestinians' trade­mark headdress. 
hold talks with King Hussein, described Israel's decision to let the deportees return as "another positive signal." 
The returnees face a local PLO leadership fractured by infighting, and will have to deal with attempts by the armed underground to con­tinue attacks on Israel, demands for jobs, and general disillusion­ment with the peace accords. 
"One of our first responsibilities is to put an end to the infighting within our ranks," said Rashid Abu Shbak. 
Some of the exiled leaders helped negotiate the plan for Palestinian autonomy in the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho. Autonomy was to begin April 13, but has been delayed by persistent snags in negotiations and by the Feb. 25 massacre of 30 Palestinians in a Hebron mosque. 

fi< Hm The new government set up by 
Palestinian officials said 26 ..___;::___AJ'_IW_m_.J.-c.-...-no-.E::...n••-n-Gia-nt_on_,o"'aw"-noa-,--'u... the pLO will have c0 ntr0 I 0 v e r 
SoorceciA 

other exiles crossed into the West Bank over the Allenby Bridge from Jordan. PLO chairman Yasser Arafat, in Amman, Jordan, to 
North Korea makes inspections offer 
SEOUL 
North Korea has offered to allow new nuclear inspections if Washington drops its demand for an exchange of envoys between North and South Korea, the South's Yonhap news agency said Tuesday. The United States has made the envoy exchange and full inspections of North Korea's nuclear facilities con­ditions for resuming talks on improving 

relations with North Korea. The envoys would lead efforts to make the peninsula a nuclear-free zone. A planned U.S.-North Korea meeting was canceled and the United States rescheduled joint military exercises with South Korea. The armies of both Koreas went on alert, and North Korea has threatened war if pushed too hard. Yonhap said the North's new offer came in a letter from Vice Foreign Minister Kang Sok Ju to U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Robert Gallucci. The letter was dis­cussed last week in Washington talks between South Korea's foreign minister, Han Sung-joo; Secretary of State Warren Christopher and other U.S. officials, it said. Yonhap said Han rejected the offer. 

Judge accused of fondling lawyer 
LOS ANGELES 
State workers' compensation judge Stanley Feinstein was arrested after a lawyer reported he forcibly kissed and fondled her in his chambers. He was booked for in­vestigation of false imprisonment and sexual battery and released on $15,000 bail. The lawyer told police she vis­ited the judge March 28 to discuss a legal matter and he pushed her up against a wall. She told police he grabbed her breast and kissed her. Feinstein said the allegations were instigated by powerful lawyers angry at him for his decisions against people falsely claiming to have been in­jured in workers' compensation cases. "I am innocent. I was set up. I will fight this to the end," he said. Feinstein, 61, was scheduled for arraignment April 25. He was placed on leave, pending an internal investiga­tion. The criminal charges carry a maximum prison sen­tence of seven years. 
Gaza and Jericho, as well as vari­ous departments for the whole territories including health, education, social welfare, taxation and tourism. 

Grocer refutes King's testimony 
LOS ANGELES 

The city began its case in Rodney King's multimillion­dollar lawsuit Tuesday by calling a grocer who, speaking through a Korean interpreter, told jurors that King threatened him with a tire iron during the Nov. 3, 1989, robbery at his Monterey Park market. King testilled last week that he threw pies at the Baik and that it was the grocer who had the tire iron. He said he pleaded guilty to the robbery because he couldn't afford a lawyer. He served two years in prison. In later testimony Tuesday, former Sheriffs Deputy David Denkin said he transported King to an examination room the day after the beating and asked about his injuries. He said King told him he'd been beaten because he ran from police. "I said, 'It wasn't because you were black, was it?"' Denkin testi­fied. "He said, 'No, it was because I ran."' King was on parole and set to return to a construction job at the time of the beating and was also studying to be a diesel mechanic, attorneys said. The city has conceded liability for the police beating and the two-phase trial is being held to determine compensatory damages owed by the city and punitive damages that could be levied against individuals. 

Supermodel survives chopper crash 
TELLURIDE, CO. 

Christie Brinkley and five other people were began re­couperating from a helicopter crash. They were strand­ed for six hours Friday after the helicopter crashed while ferrying them up a mountain for skiing. ''I'm extremely thankful to be alive and greatful to all the brave men and women who helped in our rescue," Brinkley said in a statement. Brinkley's husband, singer Billy Joel, post­poned a concert in Kansas City on Saturday night to fly to Telluride and accompany her back to New York. Los Angeles real estate developer Richard Taubman was the most seriously injured. He was in serious condition Tuesday at a Grand Junction hospital with broken ribs, a broken clavicle and a puncture lung. The National Transportation and Safety Board was called in to investi­gate. Two days after the crash, Walt Disney Co. President Frank Wells and two other "heliskiing" com­panions died when their copter went down in Nevada. 

NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 6. 

C 1994 Accu-Weather,lnc. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-S70RMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press 
Atlanta  61  53  Dallas  68  36  Minneapolis  50  26  
Baltimore  60  51  Denver  59  33  New Orleans  70  55  
Boston  55  43  Houston  72  42  New York  52  44  
Chicago  48  25  Los Angeles  70  56  Philadelphia  60  52  
Col om bus  46  31  Miami  85  72  Phoenix  82  58  

---~------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, April 6, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

ii I  ARCHERY MINI-COURSE TUESDAY & THURSDAY APRIL 12 & 14 7:00 PM -9:00 PM JACCGYM1 ALL EQUIPMENT WILL BE PROVIDED NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY CLASS SIZE IS L1MITED REGISTER IN ADVANCEAT RECSPORTS $6.00FEE  

take a  




air representation sought in Maryland 
black voters. Blacks comprise 21 percent of Worcester County's approximately 35,000 residents, but no black has ever been elected to the five-mem­ber county commission. 
"The evidence is clear and convincing that due to the vot­ing patterns, the residential at­large requirements and the past and present discrimination of blacks, their voting strength is diluted," Young wrote in Tuesday's opinion. 
Under the system he ordered, all five county commissioners would still be elected at large rather than from districts. But voters would get five votes to use any way they want spread among candidates or all for one candidate. 
Young said such cumulative voting is "a less drastic reme­dy" than creating voting dis­tricts because it wouldn't "dis­turb the existing structure o government in Worcester County." 
But Ben Griffith, the attorney who represented the sparsely populated county along Maryland's Atlantic Coast, said the system could encourage race-based voting on the part of both blacks and whites. 
"I think it will actually aggra-. vate any racial problems," Griffith said. 
He said he would appeal and would also ask the judge to de­
11-800-KAP-TEST 




KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question 
Self-sufficiency no easy goal 
ByKARASPAK News Writer 
While economic self suffi­ciency is considered the "American route out of pover­ty," the presence of the working poor raises questions about this strategy, Northwestern University Professor of Economics Rebecca Blank told an audience at the Center for Social Concerns yesterday afternoon. 
Blank focused on the rise of the working poor during the 1980's. Any increase in the numbers of working poor can be attributed to an increase in the amount of working single female household heads and a decline in the work by married family households, Blank said. 
Blank suggested that big changes in the labor markets occurred during the 1980's, especially for low-skilled work­ers. The wages of low-skilled workers and high school grad­uates have been declining be­tween 1979 and 1989, while those with more than a high school diploma have had their wages on the rise. 
For well-educated women, wages have soared as women's salaries begin to catch up with those of men. For less skilled women, though, wages haven't shifted at all. 
In the 1980's, the second largest American job expansion occurred, but poverty rates still remained high, Blank noted. While the job market increased by 20 million new jobs, wage trends created a situation where Americans worked hard­er for less money. A low unem­ployment rate, which dispro­portionally affects those at the bottom of the income distribu­tion, is essential to helping the working poor, Blank explained. 
Concerning changes in the 

Happy 21st Birthday 

jJ({))JEJL 
jJUN~ID. 
April 4, 1994 
Love, Mom, Dad, & David 
WYOlA t; ~J·, ~ UNIVERSTIY
S:: · ~CHICAGO 



~ s ------------------------------------­
o<f>~.u~\:0 The Graduate School 
MBA

ofBusiness 

Professional education for positions of leadership in the Jesuit tradition of excellence. 
Candidates may begin program in any quarter. 
For information cal1312-915-6120 or complete coupon below. 
Water Tower Campus 820 North Michigan Avenue Chicago, lllinois 60611 
Mail To: Loyola University Chicago Graduate Business School 
820 N. Michigan Ave. • Chicago, IL 60611 
Name 
Telephone No. 
Mailing Address 

City State Zip 

The Obsever/Cynthia Exconde ''Trends of the Working Poor'' was the focus of Rebecca Blank, profes­sor of economics at Northwestern University, who lectured yesterday at the esc yesterday afternoon. 
family structure, Blank stated grams." such as welfare, as that single adults, with or with­having some effect in discour­out children, are in the bottom aging work, though often other income brackets. Even if no options regarding these pro­change in the family composi­grams offset this disincentive. tion occurred, dramatic trends Blank's lecture was the fourth in work behavior still would part of the six-part Paul and have occurred. Barbara Henkels Visiting 
Blank addressed direct gov­Scholars Series on the Working ernment anti-poverty programs and Poor in Urban America. It designed to supplement the continues on April 14, when working poor, including job Sheldon Danziger of the training, income transfer, and University of Michigan will pre­wage supplements. She dis­sent "The Labor Market and cussed "income-transfer pro-the Working Poor." 
Loyola is an equal opportunity employer/educator. 
UNO 



page4 



Nixon's career unequaled 
By LYNN BAUWENS 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

Agnes Nixon knows televi­sion. Introduced by Ted Bily of the Saint Mary's English de­partment as the "Mother of all Soaps," Nixon has had a serial on the air five days a week, 52 weeks a year for over thirty years. 
The Nashville, Tennessee na­tive attended Saint Mary's College for two years. 
Her father wanted his daughter to follow him in his burial garment business, but Nixon instead chose to transfer to the Northwestern School of Speech. 
After studying acting with such greats as classmate Charleston Heston, she decided · to pursue a career in writing. 
She moved to New York and became a freelance writer for dramatic television series in~ eluding "Studio One," "Philco Playhouse," and "Hallmark Hall of Fame." 
When evening programming moved west with the introduc­
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 


Nixon 
continued from page 1 
leader in this." 

Nixon has addressed AIDS, child abuse, alcoholism, ovari­an cancer and countless other social issues throughout the years. 
Nixon proceeded to talk about the industry in depth. She referred to the actors in soap operas as "the hardest working people in show busi­ness." According to Nixon, the actors arrive on the set at 7:30 each day and often don't leave until after 7:00 pm. 
For every actor there are 10 people working on the set. Every day a new episode is plotted out by the "plottists," who decide what direction the story will take, and read by a full time etlitor and five associ­ate writers. 
At 2:00 am the lighting direc­tor prepares for the next taping and sets are arranged for the following day. According to Nixon, it is very high pressured, allowing "... no time for prima donnas. It has to be an ensem­ble effort." 
Nixon said that she found that videotaping allowed for more emotional content in comparison to the live days of 
The Obsever/Cynthia Exconde Agnes Nixon, writer and creator of the soap operas "One Life to Live" and "All My Children," addresses a Saint Mary's audience. 
soap operas. She remembers able to capture the imagina­the days of soap opera radio tion, did not feel that it could and, though she felt that it was capture the audience like the 
~~ --~----~----------~~----­
Wednesday, April 6, 1994 
visuals. "Well, 260 episodes a year does allow for a lot of understanding and sympathy," she said. 
Nixon likes to play upon all the emotions in her shows, never letting humor slip away. With over 6,000 episodes of "All My Children" to her name, Nixon has shown that success can be achieved through the dedication that she has shown to the industry over the past 35 years. She has used these emo­tions to send out important messages in an entertaining fashion. 
Also drawn into daytime soaps, according to Nixon, are the networks. Because of their empirical stability and money­making power through heavy advertising and high ratings, soap operas like "All My Children" have a lot of pull in the television industry. Nixon claims that, "Daytime soaps pay for a lot of nighttime mistakes. Soaps are financially very im­portant to the networks." They are on five days a week, 52 weeks a year. 
Nixon's career will only con­tinue to prosper as long as au­diences keep tuning in. She pointed out that soap operas are more than just a series of stories. "We span a tremendous range of intellectual and eco­nomic levels. Ultimately, we bring people up," she said. 

tion of nlm, Nixon remained in New York and began writing for such daytime serials as "Search for Tomorrow," "As the World Turns," "Guiding Light," and "Another World." At the time she began working on these shows, all taping was done live. There were no re­takes. 
Nixon learned television by doing it, she explained. She cited the three D's -desire, discipline and determination ­as vital to success in "this seat of the pants" industry. 
Besides the work she has done on television, Nixon's writing has appeared in The New York Times and TV Guide. 
In the spring of 1981, Nixon received the prestigious National Academy of Television Arts & Sciences' Trustee Award. 
When presenting the award, Barbara Walters noted that Nixon was both the first woman and the first writer to be honored with this award. 
Last year, she was honored with the Gold Plate Award from the American Academy of Achievement. She was also in­ducted into the Academy of Television Arts &Sciences' Hall of Fame. 
Today, Nixon lives in subur­ban Philadelphia with her hus­band, Robert. She remains one of the foremost writers of tele­vision serial drama. 
London  $275*  
Paris  $293*  
Frankfurt  $293*  
Rome  $355*  
Athens  $355*  

'fiRS 1n en wt!f fron Chic"9Q bes<d on rOIIldtrip Pll­clllse.IIEllrriions •pp!y1toxts 1n rct ircluded .00 r.r.s1n 9.bject 10 ~ Callu <Xher v.olct.W:k desti"oltions. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Hoor Chicago, 1160610 

311-951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 







Lou Holtz 
speaking on 
''How tc1 Achieve Success'' 
Thursday, April 7th 7:30p.m. Stepan Center 

Admission is free! 
Sponsored by office of Student Activities 
-~ -~----------­
------~------------­
Wednesday, April 6, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
IRA may extend cease fire Former congressman 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK Sinn Fein has said the offer The IRA last week announced Associated Press needs to be clarified before it it would pause in its campaign 

pleads guilty to fraud 
can respond. Since Dec. 15, the against British rule of Northern BELFAST IRA has killed a soldier and two Ireland in hopes of winning By CASSANDRA BURRELL campaign," Eicher told Judge The IRA and its political allies policemen, peppered London's talks between British represen­Associated Press Louis Oberdorfer. ushered in a three-day cease­Heathrow Airport with 12 dud tatives and the IRA's allied Sinn Hubbard also was accused of 
fire Tuesday night with hints mortar shells and shot down a Fein party. WASHINGTON staging a phony burglary of his British army helicopter. Though the group has de­Former Rep. Carroll office in Paducah, Ky., in an
that they might extend their 
break from violence in return clared three-day Christmas ces­Hubbard, D-Ky., and his wife attempt to hide incriminating 
for negotiations with Britain. Attacks were scaled back in sations annually since 1990, pleaded guilty Tuesday to mis­fmancial records. British and Irish officials the run up to the official 72-this is its first cease-fire since using campaign contributions Hubbard told the judge he 
they received for their unsuc­was guilty of all the charges,however held to their stand hour cessation, and police said 1975 to be pitched at securing cessful congressional races in but disputed some of Eicher'sthat there was nothing to talk no political violence was re­some form of negotiations. 
about until the IRA pledges to ported Tuesday. The IRA's last 1992. details. 
give up violence for good. claimed attack came last Such talks needn't be face to Hubbard, 56, and Carol "I would say I am in substan­Brown Hubbard, 53, were ar­tial agreement with the allega­
"A positive attitude and flexi­Thursday when it rocketed a face, but could involve an ex­bility of approach are required rural police station, wounding change of letters, Sinn Fein raigned separately in U.S. tions, but I do not agree with 
to allow the situation to be an officer. President Gerry Adams said District Court. Both remain free the details described by the on their own recognizance prosecutor," Hubbard said. 
moved forward," the Irish Tuesday. 
Republican Army said in a Northern Ireland's 20,000 Britain and Sinn Fein passed pending sentencing June 16. Hubbard was charged with messages through intermedi­three felonies: conspiracy to de­
statement released in Dublin, soldiers and police were on During the hearing Tuesday, fraud the U.S. government by Ireland, hours before the cease­alert as midnight neared, but aries from 1990 to November Assistant· U.S. Attorney Tom lying to the Federal Electionfire began at midnight (7 p.m. the deadline arrived without in­1993, until the dialogue was 
EDT). cident, according to police. leaked to the media. Eicher said Hubbard engaged Commission, theft and conver­Patrol after patrol of soldiers in a variety of abuses, including sion of government property, Britain's chief official in in armored trucks moved along Prime Minister John Major's using campaign money to pay and obstruction of justice. 
Northern Ireland, Sir Patrick the rain-soaked streets of office said it would have no re­his daughter's school tuition Mrs. Hubbard, who ran for 
Mayhew, called the temporary Catholic west Belfast in hopes sponse to the letter idea, first and other personal expenses, Congress in a separate district 
cease-fire "no more than a that their presence would dis­proposed by John Hume, leader falsifying campaign finance re­from her husband, was charged 
threat" to renew attacks after courage any last-minute of Northern Ireland's main ports, having House staff per­with a single misdemeanor 
three days. strikes. Catholic party and a longtime form campaign duties during count of aiding and abetting working hours and paying peo­theft. She could be fined up to
Britain and Ireland issued a Police checkpoints monitored opponent of IRA violence. 
ple to contribute money to Mrs. $100,000 and sentenced to updeclaration Dec. 15 offering traffic into Belfast's frequently 
Sinn Fein a place in talks on the bombed downtown, their rifles John Alderdice, leader of Hubbard's campaign. to one year in prison and one "On at least 15 occasions, he year of supervised release. 
future of Northern Ireland if the trained on approaching cars Northern Ireland's moderate 
IRA laid down its arms perma­and flashlights searching the Alliance Party, said the IRA gave people up to $1,000 to 
nently. trunks of suspicious vehicles. should extend the cease-fire. make contributions to his wife's Eicher said prosecutors are recommending that Mrs. Hubbard be spared any jail time. No recommendations have been made yet for Hubbard's sentence. 

THE DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPHY 
Hubbard's charges carry a maximum sentence of 20 years, 
if served consecutively, and a 
fine of $750,000. He also could 
be ordered to make full restitu­
AND 

THE GRADUATE PROGRAM IN HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE 
tion. 
Earlier in the day, the Justice Department filed criminal in­formations against the couple. The filing of a criminal infor­mation, instead of an indict­
ment, signals that a defendant has made an agreement with prosecutors to enter a guilty plea. 
Hubbard served 18 years in Congress before being defeated in a Democratic primary in 1992. 

cordially invite friends, colleagues, and students of 
The FBI became interested in Hubbard because he had 152 overdrafts at the House bank, ranking him 15th in the num­ber of checks among the 325 House members who overdrew. The allegations were the sec­ond and third sets of charges to 
arise from the Justice Department's ongoing investi­gation of the House Bank. 
All current members of 

to a reception in his honor 
on the occasion of his retirement from Notre Dame as 
Congress have been cleared of irregularities related to the bank, Eicher said. He declined to comment on how many for­mer members remain under investigation. 


In an effort to stave off prose­cution, Hubbard said he agreed to work under cover for the FBI for six months last year, from April to October 1993. 
Hubbard went public with his 


pr](O!F'ESSO~ O:F P1liLOSOP1l~ 
tale of undercover work in in­terviews in December with The Washington Post and ABC. 
He told the Post that while there may have been violations 

THE RECEPTION WILL BE HELD IN THE MAIN HALL 
of federal election laws, "they were honest mistakes." 


OF THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
He stopped cooperating with the government, he said, when he believed the next step would be to help the FBI run an "Abscam II" sting operation






WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6™ 
against current members of Congress, his former col­leagues. Abscam was an FBI undercover operation in the early 1980s in which six con­



5:00-6:30 P.M. 

gressmen and a senator were convicted of corruption charges. 

--------------------~------~----------------------~----·--------------------------------------------~----------~-----­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 6, 1994 
Zulus defy state of emergency, death toll rises 
By ANN EVELETH Associated Press 
EMPANGENI, South Africa 
Nationalist Zulus brandishing spears, clubs and sticks defied a state of emergency to march Tuesday in this Natal province city. 
Police said Tuesday that 88 people had been killed in politi­cal violence in the Zulu-domi­nated province since Thursday, when the state of emergency was declared. The death toll could climb as casualty reports from far-flung rural settlements reach regional police. 
Despite earlier vows to dis­arm marchers, police and troops did nothing as the Zulus arrived in buses Tuesday to support their king's demand for a sovereign Zulu state. 
The emergency regulations give troops broad powers to de­tain troublemakers and keep weapons off the streets. 
"You couldn't disarm them ... without a lot of bloodshed," po­lice Maj. Margaret Kruger said after 10,000 people swarmed through Empangeni, about 90 
Pull out date in jeopardy 
By JAMES MARTONE Associated Press 
CAIRO 
The first Palestinian police will tour the occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho on Thursday, Israel's top negotiator said Tuesday. 
Palestinians complained, meanwhile, that Israel has of­fered no timetable for with­drawing its troops from the two areas to be turned over to Palestinian control. 
Although both sides reported progress in ta,lks since Sunday, the slow pace makes it unlikely they will reach agreement by April 13, the deadline for com­pleting Israel's withdrawal and starting Palestinian self-rule. 
The deadline was set in the historic peace accord signed by the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel on Sept. 13. 
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Tuesday that more time probably was needed for an agreement. 
"If anyone expected there would be a hocus-pocus and, in two or three days everything could be completed, he was simply mistaken and isn't familiar with the reality," Rabin said. 
Six to eight Palestinian police commanders had been ex­pected to visit Gaza and the West Bank town of Jericho ear­lier this week to inspect poten­tial police posts, but the trip was delayed by haggling on the overall security agreement. 
Chief Israeli delegate Maj. Gen. Amnon Shahak said the commanders would arrive Thursday. 
In separate meetings with re­porters, both Shahak and chief PLO negotiator Nabil Shaath reported progress but gave no details. 
But Shaath also said that a full schedule of deployment for the police remained undecided, along with questions concern­ing the arms the officers will use. 
Maj. Gen. Nasr Yousef, who will head the Palestinian police, said he was disappoint­ed the Israelis gave no date for starting withdrawal. 
miles north of Durban. "They them insults Zulu tradition. The 
deployment of the security would go for the police ... and ANC has pressed for the forces," said ANC spokesman the police would open fire." weapons to be banned, saying Siyabonga Cwele in Port But, she said, the province­their display intimidates rivals Shepstone, where nine mem­wide state of emergency had and in.creases tensions. bers of an ANC-supporting fam­"clearly been contravened" by Among the 88 people killed ily were hacked to death the weapon-wielding marchers, since the emergency was im­Saturday night. and police planned to press posed were 10 people shot The region's violence is root­charges. Sunday in Ndwedwe, north of ed in the Zulu nationalists' 
Zulu tribal chiefs called for Durban. opposition to the April election, the show of force at Empangeni Police had few details, and which will include the black to protest the deaths of Zulus in Tuesday's report was the first majority for the first time and political violence in the area word of the killings. The area most likely put the ANC in and to commemorate those has been hard-hit by the war power. killed last week after a Zulu between Zulu members of the The result will be diminished march in Johannesburg. African National Congress and power for Zulu leader the Inkatha Freedom Party. Mangosuthu Buthelezi, who is 
An all-Zulu army battalion President F.W. de Klerk sent chief minister of KwaZulu. was able to take stronger action in the army Thursday to take at a smaller commemoration over security in Natal and Election officials said Tuesday near Wembenzi, a black town­KwaZulu in an attempt to quell that a committee including del­ship 100 miles southwest of the political violence threaten­egates from the KwaZulu gov­Empangeni. About 100 Zulu ing the April 26-28 election. ernment had determined it soldiers set up a roadblock to On paper, De Klerk's emer­would be impossible to hold search 400 Zulus entering the gency declaration amounts to a elections in the region under rally site, and confiscated security takeover. But military the current conditions of vio­spears and clubs, as well as a officials have said that only 500 lence and fear. few firearms. extra troops are being sent into APfWm. J. Castello But the Independent Electoral 
Zulus say the traditional the vast province to bolster the were securing industrial areas Commission said the state of weapons they carry at rallies 700 normally on patrol there. but ignoring the rural black ar­emergency could "significantly and other public gatherings are eas where most violence oc­contribute" to its ability to con­an essential part of their cul­An ANC official in Natal com­curs. duct the vote in the Zulu home­ture, and any attempts to seize ]!_lained Monday that troops "People are calling for the land. 
Are you a college senior who has thought about pries1~hood and religious life and may still be thinkingabout a religious vocation? 
consider 
THE HiOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one-ye!ar program at Moreau seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates Interested in exploring the possibility of a vocation as a Holy cross priest or brother. 
Scholarship assistance is provided. Unde!rgraduate loans may be deferrable. 

For information: 
Fr. John conley, c.s.c. Fr. Patrick Hannon, c.s.c. congregation of Holy cross Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 
Younf7 People, 
c11rist needs you to enlighten the world and to show it the path of life! -Pope John Paull/ ­

-~---~~~~--~-~ ------------~---­
Wednesday, April6, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Serbs overrun Bosnian village, hundreds flee 
By SRECKO LATAL 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

Hundreds of civilians fled burning villages Tuesday ahead of Bosnian Serb troops who breached defense lines around the Muslim enclave of Gorazde. 
An officer in the Muslim-dom­inated Bosnian government said the enclave's defenders had been forced back by the breakthroughs. Government officials called the situation critical for the besieged eastern area, which was declared a 
U.N. "safe zone" last May but has been unprotected by U.N. troops. 
Serb leaders and interna­tional aid workers also reported Serb advances after a week of heavy fighting. U.N. aid work­ers said 52 civilians had been killed and 249 wounded since last week. 
There was no sign Western nations would intervene as NATO did with threats of air strikes to force the withdrawal of Serb artillery around Sarajevo. 
The United States said it had no plans to help Gorazde's 65,000 residents. 
Gen. John Shalikashvili, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters in Washington that air power would be ineffective against what is primarily small-arms fighting around Gorazde. 
But he said that should not be seen as a "green light" for Serb attacks, and he did not flatly rule out intervention. "Tomorrow, the circumstances in Gorazde could very well change and the use of air power could be very appropri­ate," he said. 
Lt. Gen. Sir Michael Rose, the 
U.N. commander in Bosnia, planned to go to Gorazde to as­sess the situation Wednesday. About 200 refugees from the area blocked the entrance to his Sarajevo headquarters Tuesday, demanding immediate action to save Gorazde, which is about 30 miles southeast of the capital. 
"Please inform Gen. Rose now ... tomorrow is too late," said lbro Marsala, one of the protesters. 
The enclave has been under siege during much of the 2-year war that began when Bosnia's government declared indepen­dence from Serb-dominated 
THE WORLD'S BIGGEST TRAVEL 
COMPANY FOR 18-35 YEAR OLDS 
DISCOVER EUROPE 
TO TOUR 
Includes: accommodation, most meals, sightseeing, luxury air-conditioned coach and all the fun you can handle!





EUROPE 


Congratulations! 
The Student Union Board is still accepting applications for the 1995 Sophomore Literary Festival-pick them up in the SUB office, second floor of LaFortune. The deadline for the applications is April 8th. 

STUDENT UNION BOAJW 
Yugoslavia. 
"Our units have defeated the government forces inside Gorazde pocket and have reached the right bank of the Drina River," Gen. Manojlo Milovanovic, the Bosnian Serb's chief of staff, told the Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA. 
The Drina River divides the enclave, which is about nine miles from east to west and 12 miles north to south. The town of Gorazde is on the left bank of the Drina. 
A government army officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Serb troops broke through defense lines at three locations and government soldiers ·had to retreat. Terrified civilians were stream­ing toward the center of Gorazde, he said. 
Commanders in Gorazde told 

U.N. military observers the Serbs broke defense lines to the south and southeast and were very close to the town, said Maj. Rob Annink, a U.N. spokesman in Sarajevo. The four military observers were not traveling about the enclave for security · reasons. 



God gives each person one lifetime. 
What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
I


I Teamsters call for nationwide strike 
F --------~---~-----~ -­
The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 6, 1994 

Guarding T11181 (PG13) 1:45, 4:15,7:00, 9:30 llabd Gill 33 (PG13) 12:30, 2:45, 5:15,

7:45 Al:e Vlllllwa (PG13) 12:45, 3:00, 5:30, 8:00 
112: IIIMv Dtl:b 2(PG) 1:00, 4:00, 6:45,
9:15 
=LMgue 2(PG) 1:15, 4:30, 7:30, 
'lllll'lplr (RI 1:30, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 Glwlly (PG13) 10:00 

By DAVID MORRIS lines at 12:01 a.m. Wednesday. panies. destroy jobs, not protect them." Associated Press Carey said the only hope for "We're prepared for the He added that union leaders avoiding the work stoppage by worst." he added. "We hope it showed "they would rather risk WASHINGTON 80,000 Teamsters would be a doesn't last long." the livelihoods of their mem­
The International willingness of the companies to Consumers would feel little bers than negotiate a settle­Brotherhood of Teamsters soften their position on the use immediate impact of a strike, ment that would have provided called a nationwide strike of part-time workers. since many of the companies increased wages ... and the job against 23 trucking companies That prospect appeared un­transport raw materials and security that can only come Tuesday, saying a plan to give likely. equipment parts rather than from working for competitive more work to part-time drivers "We don't plan to call them finished products. Most food de­companies." was unacceptable. and we don't expect them to liveries would not be affected. Carey said the union would 
"We have no other choice but call (us)," said Robert Young, Arthur Bunte, chief negotia­not give in to the use of part­to strike," said Teamsters president of ABF Freight tor for the companies, called time workers because the con­President Ron Carey. He or­Systems in Fort Smith, Ark., the strike decision "an act of ir­cession would eventually cost dered drivers to form picket and a spokesman for the com-responsible leadership that will thousands of jobs. 
TJ'1e Fourth Freedom Forum 
and the 
joan B. Kroc lrrstitute for International Peace Studies 

Invite you to attend: 
Aprii·B, 9, and 10, 1994 
Registration begins at 3:00 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Lobby Conference presentations take place at the Center for Continuing Education 
Co~NFERENCE SCHEDULE 
Friday, April 8 12:30 p.m. Sunday, April 1 0 Center Dining Area, Lower Level, CCE
7:00p.m. 8:00a.m. Center for Continuing Education (CCE) Luncheon and Keynote Address Central Dining Area, Lower Level, CCE Auditorium "Dismantling the Soviet Nuclear , 
Continental Breakfast CONFERENCE OPENING· Arsenal" 
8:30a.m. 
Plenary Session )ames Goodby, U.S. Ambassador for the CCE Auditorium
"Proliferation and the New Nuclear 
Safe and Secure Dismantlement of 
Panel Discussion
Danger" 

Nuclear Weapons 
"A Report on the prospect of Sanctions
John Holum, Director, U.S. Arms Control 
2:30p.m. 
Against North Korea"

and Disarmament Agency CCE Auditorium 
Rev. Paul Kim, Executive Director, Korea Panel Presentation 
Church Coalition for Peace, Justice,

Saturday, April 9 "Initiatives by National and Multilateral 
and Reunification9:00a.m. Lending Institutions" 
Susan Chodakewitz, Senior Policy Analyst,
CCE Auditorium Nicole Ball, Overseas Development 
Defense Policy Center, Meridian
Panel Presentation 

Council, expert on initiatives by lend­Moderated by Professor Corporation
ing institutions 
"The Sanctions Instrument and 
Klemens van de Sand, Director, 9:45a.m. 
its Relevance to Non· 
Lobby, Main Level, CCE
Department of Development
Proliferation" 

Planning and Donor Coordination, Coffee Break
Raimo Vayrymen, Director, Joan B. Kroc 
Ministry for Economic Cooperation 10:00 p.m.
Institute for International Peace and Development, Germany CCE Auditorium
Studies, University of Notre Dame Margaret Doxey, author of Economic Katsuhiko Oku, First Secretary, Economics Panel Presentation Sanctions and International EnfO"rcement "The Prospects for Carrots and Sticks in
Section, Embassy of Japan 
South Asia"
4:15p.m. 

Neeraj Kaushal, Visiting Fellow, Program
10:30 a.m. 

Lobby, Main Level, CCE 
in Arms Control, Disarmament, and
Lobby, Main Level, CCE 

Coffee Break 
Coffee Break International Security, University of
4:30p.m. 
lllinois at Urbana-ChampaignCCE Auditorium

10:45 a.m. Amitabh Mattoo, Assistant Editor, The 
Keynote Address
CCE Auditorium Independent, New Delhi, India;
"Lessons of the United Nations Weapons
Panel Presentation Visiting Fellow, Joan B. Kroc 
Monitoring and Destruction Mission
''Export Controls and Non· Institute, University of Notre Dame Proliferation Policy" in Iraq" 
Haider Rizvi, Journalist, Daily DAWN, 
Randy Rydell, Committee on David Kay, Former head of the IAEA 
Islamabad Bureau, Islamabad,

Governmental Affairs, U.S. Senate Weapons Inspection Team in Iraq Pakistan; Visiting Fellow, Joan B.
Victor Mizin, Director, Department of 
6:30-7:00 p.m. 
Kroc Institute, University of NotreExport Controls and Non­CCELobby 

Dame

Proliferation, Russian Ministry of Reception
Foreign Affairs, Moscow, Russia 11:45 a.m. Adjourn 

---------~----~----------------------~--~--------------­
page9 


Plotters sought in Honduras No easy answers in 
By FREDDY CUEVAS Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras 
Authorities are seeking four men allegedly hired to assassi­nate Honduras' president and kidnap leading businessmen in a plot to destabilize the coun­try, the military said Tuesday. 
The masterminds -who were not identified -had of­fered to pay $400,000 for the death of President Carlos Roberto Reina and more than $800,000 for kidnapping top executives, said Col. Napoleon Santos, a military spokesman. 
Santos did not describe the plotters' motives for wanting to undermine Honduras, a major ally of the United States during its campaign in the 1980s against leftists in neighboring Nicaragua and El Salvador. 
"The situation is being duly investigated and we cannot give more details about it in order to avoid hampering the investiga­tions themselves," Santos said. 
Three Nicaraguans allegedly hired to carry out the crimes and a Honduran who acted as their guide are being sought, he said. 
The chief of the presidential guard, Col. Alvadro Romero, said the Nicaraguan govern­ment was helping in the inves­tigation. Officials learned of the conspiracy 15 days ago, Santos said. 
Santos said plans called for a sniper to fire at Reina through the large windows of his resi­dence, above a block of down­town storefronts. 
He did not say which busi­nessmen had been targeted. 
Security was increased at the president's office in southern Tegucigalpa and at his home. 
Reina "took the information of the plot with great serenity," Information Minister Juan Ram Dur said. "He has told us that every leader is subject to such difficulties." 
Reina, a 68-year-old lawyer and former political prisoner, took office Jan. 27 after the fourth consecutive peaceful election since 1980 -the first time Honduras has managed 
such a string without a coup or revolt in its 172 years. 
He promised an end to the de facto rule by the military, which remained autonomous as a condition for returning to civilian government in 1980. He also wants to remove the police from military control, an end to military conscription and judi­cial reforms. 
Also Tuesday, an appeals court announced it had ordered a new trial for a former army colonel whose conviction last July was seen as evidence Honduras had outgrown its his­tory of military impunity and domination. 
Col. Angel Castillo Maradiaga was sentenced to 16 years for the 1991 rape and death of a teen-age girl. But the First Court of Appeals threw out the conviction, saying the proven facts did not match those the colonel was convicted of. 
"The sentence was pro­nounced on the basis of pre­sumptions," it said. 
IPib:1~f1~i!lll ~Ib~Iri!liJ):1 ~~IID~Iri!lil m~~1!f1m~ 
Wed. April 6th 7: 0 0 P. M. 
Room 123 Nieuwland 
--Election for next year's club officer followed by a movie and refreshments 

Roasted to a superb flavor with savory Aztec spices--moist and tender! 
Available 7 days a Week Eat in or Take Out 11:00 am-2:00pm 4:00 pm -7:00 pm 
THE OAK ROOM 
in South Dining Hall 631-8638 
Take some home for the family 


Mexican assassination 
By JOSEPH FRAZIER 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

A factory worker, a one-time nightclub security guard and three former police officers sit in jail -while authorities scramble to uncover the motive behind Mexico's boldest politi­cal murder in decades. 
What reason would the un­likely quintet have for conspir­ing to murder presidential can­didate Luis Donaldo Colosio? 
The theories abound after the announcement Monday that at least seven men are linked to Mexico's first political assassi­nation since 1928. 
Five men are in custody. Two others, identified in photos of the murder. are on the run. Colosio was killed by confessed assassin Mario Aburto Martinez on March 23 while campaigning in Tijuana. 
If investigators are to be be­lieved, the killing involved an elaborate plot to infiltrate Colosio's security detail, dis­tract the candidate's own secu­rity guards and help the trigger man get close enough for the fatal shot. 

The man who hired the guards, Jose Rodolfo Rivapalacio, and two of those he hired, Vicente Mayoral Valenzuela and Rodolfo Mayoral Esquer, were to appear this week before a judge, who would decide if there is reason to hold them. 
Another guard, Tranquilino Sanchez Venegas, already has been indicted on conspiracy charges, which carry a possible prison sentence of 37 1/2 years. 
The men were being held at the high-security Almoloya de Juarez prison west of Mexico City. 
Ernesto Ruffo Appel, the gov­ernor of Baja California state, whose office is helping in the probe, insists the seven men named Monday worked to­gether. 
"But up to now nothing has appeared that indicates drug traffickers or political groups," he said. 
"There is a list of 46 that formed the security group," Ruffo was quoted as saying in the government newspaper El Nacional. "There are peculiar situations that draw attention, such as the fact that the name of Tranquilino Sanchez had been written in by hand below the list made by typewriter." 
Some theories point toward the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party. 
"The PRI is its own worst en­emy as it was the worst enemy of Colosio," wrote Maria Teresa Jardi, a human rights advocate who has worked for the federal attorney general's office, in the newspaper La Jornada. 
She noted that when a tree was planted in Colosio's honor after the murder, top PRI offi­cials were conspicuously ab­sent. 
"Most probably it will never be known who ordered his death," she said. 
There are emerging reports of two shadowy organizations, "Group X" and "TUCAN," the Spanish acronym for Everyone United Against National Action, which is made up of current and former police officers, to which some of those in custody are said to belong. 
Many state police officers were fired after National Action Party member Ruffo won the Baja California gover­nor's race in 1989. 

A Continuing Series for Graduate Students Presenting 
Dominic Vachon, Ph.D. 
Discussing Maximizing Academic Performance in Graduate School: 
A Workshop Using the Insights of Sports Psychology 
This Workshop focuses on techniques for: 
•
Handling performance anxiety in writing papers, taking tests or making presentations 

•
Dealing with academic setbacks 

•
Improving your confidence in your study strategy 

•Maintaining 
your concentration 

•Improving 
your ability to pace yourself in your academic studies 

•Focusing 
your energy more quickly 

•Maintaining 
Motivation when you're burnt out 


DATE: Sunday April lOth TIME: 4:00P.M.-5:15P.M. AT: Fischer-O'Hara/Grace Community Center 
Sponsored by: The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer-O'Hara/Grace University Village Graduate Student Union Refreshments will be provided! 

0MPUS 
~NISTRY 

page 10 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 6, 1994 
Violences 01ars GATT P«:tnama ignores U.S. re.buke 
Associated Press will" in confronting narcotics criticism was ill-advised. 
traffickers. "Instead of continuing to crit­WASHINGTON icize and cause a sensation by By DILIP GANGULY April15. Panama has taken "strong Corro said a U.S.-Panama ev­saying Panama is supporting Associated Press India's government, which and a.dequate steps" to curb idence-sharing treaty agreed drug traffic and money has been opening the nation's drug traffickers operating upon in 1991 has been ap­laundering, we should work NEW DELHI economy with bold reforms, there, a Panamanian official proved by Panama but the U.S. together to eradicate these two Police fired rubber bullets, says the agreement will allow said Tuesday, contradicting a Senate has failed to act on it. tortures," he told The 


protest in New Delhi 
water cannons and tear gas more exports to rich markets in State Department report. He also said a new law in Associated Press. Tuesday at 150,000 protesters the West. The statement by Embassy Panama, similar to a U.S. law, The State Department report angry over India's decision to But critics say many of the Minister Counselor Miguel requires a cross-border decla­released Monday said the sign the GATT world trade ac­GATT provisions, such as rigid Corro was made in reaction to a ration on the transport of Panamanian government failed cord. About 100 people were patenting laws, will mean high­State Department report that $10,000 or more. to take "decisive new action" injured and 350 arrested. er prices for medicine, seeds said Panama's government has In Panama, Vice President last year in curbing the laun­
Police blocked all roads lead­and other products this poor shown a "disappointing lack of Guillermo Ford said the U.S. dering of drug money. ing to the capital's central dis­farming nation needs. They trict to keep the protesters 
also say India would be forced ..--~----------------------------------..
from reaching Parliament. 
to open its markets to Western ItI I t th h. krMany marchers then dropped imports that would force Indian 




s a e r a n yout In •
their flags and banners and be­industries out of business. gan throwing stones and bricks "Why are the police chasing at some 2,000 police on the us around, instead of listening 
manicured lawns at the crema­to us? Don't they know that all 
Time is running out­
tion site of Mohandas Gandhi, of us will lose our jobs?" said known worldwide as a syffibol 
~~~h:i~~s Bf~~;:; ~~~rh:!t~oTo~ so place your '94-'9S applications today!
of peace. 
The three-hour protest was the march. organized by India's two 
The 100 injured included 23 •1 & 2 Bedroom Apartments •Laundry facility Communist parties and affili­police officers, said police 
•Furnished Studios •Outdoor pool & sand volleyball
ated trade unions opposed to spokesman Jasbir Singh. In the General Agreement on addition, five horses used by •1/10 mile from campus •On city busline Tariffs and Trade. the Delhi mounted police were 
•24 hour maintenance
The accord, meant to lower injured when the protesters 
27~~8124

tariffs and other hindrances to poked iron bars into their hind global trade, is scheduled to be legs, he said. Hrs: M-F 9 a.m.-6 p.m. ~~\ signed by India, the United Traffic was paralyzed in Sat 10 a.m.-S p.m. iFurlle~9\CreeN.States and 114 pther nations parts of the city of 10 million. Sun 12 noon -S p.m. 
"Close Comfortable Convienent" 
Official 

bows to pressure 
By JAMES H. RUBIN Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A U.S. Chamber of Commerce official who has been the target of Republican attacks is leaving the business group. 
The organization announced Tuesday that William Archey, vice president for policy and congressional affairs, "is leav­ing the chamber on the basis o a mutual agreement and will pursue other interests." 
Archey was criticized last year by conservative Republicans displeased that the chamber had some kind words for President Clinton's economic plan before it opposed the legislation. 
Rep. Dick Armey, R-Texas, welcomed Archey's departure. 
"Bill Archey was the Dick Darman of the U.S. Chamber, more interested in inside-the­Beltway acceptance than pro­growth economic policy," Armey said. "Hopefully this lat­est move signals a chamber more responsive to Main Street than 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue." 
Darman, who served as bud­get director in the Bush admin­istration, was a favorite target of conservative Republicans, many of whom blamed him for convincing former President Bush to withdraw his promise to oppose tax increases. 
Archey, who served in the Treasury Department under the Carter administration and the Commerce Department un­der the Reagan administration, was accused by congressional Republicans last year of purg­ing the chamber of conserva­tive theorists. 
The feud came to a head after the chamber praised Clinton efforts to cut the bud­get and promote economic growth. 
Grant said Archey's depart­ment is not connected to the dispute over the chamber's stance on Clinton's programs. 
Focused Futures 
\ 

CS First Boston has made a firm-wide commitment to career development. That is just good common sense because people are our most valuable asset. Our profes­sional development program includes training, mentoring and team responsibilities. And it provides employees with the knowledge and experience needed to maximize the opportunities they will find during their careers. 
CS First Boston continues to be a leader in the invest­ment banking community, developing innovative products 

and services -consistently and successfully. 
For more than 60 years, and in 20 countries 
worldwide, our employees -in areas including 
Investment Banking, Public finance, Sales and 
Trading, and Research -have worked to help 
shape the face of global finance. 
As you consider your first career move, set 
your sights on CS First Boston. 

@ CS FIRST BosToN 

~~-------~~--~ 
Wednesday, April 6, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 


Vatican, U.N. clash over plan 
By VICTORIA GRAHAM 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

The Vatican criticized a liber­al U.N. blueprint on world population Tuesday, saying it lacks "a clear ethical vision" and was wrong to include the idea of a basic right to abortion. 
Earlier, U.S. delegate Timothy Wirth repeated the Clinton administration's position on the need for universal access to voluntary family planning infor­mation and methods and a woman's right to choose a safe abortion. 
The two envoys were speak­ing on the second day of a two­week world conference to ne­gotiate a final draft of a 20-year program on stabilizing the world's population. The draft will be adopted at a major in­ternational conference in Cairo this September. 
The draft program calls for individual free choice in family planning, universal access to information and appropriate methods of contraception and the right to safe abortion. It emphasizes the empowerment of women, better education for women and full equality be­tween the sexes. 
Monsignor Diarmuid Martin, the Holy See's chief delegate, complained that the U.N. draft "is marked by an extremely in­dividualistic understanding of the person and of human sex­uality." 
The Holy See "cannot support any concept of 'reproductive rights' which would include abortion as an appropriate means of family planning or the notion of an internationally rec­ognized fundamental right to abortion," said Martin. 
Martin objected that the draft makes no reference to natural family planning, the only method sanctioned by the Catholic church. He also em­phasized the importance of moral education and self-re­straint in objecting to the acceptance that adolescents will be sexually active. 
The Roman Catholic Church opposes all means of artificial contraception and says human and family values of the sancti­ty of all life transcend what many consider a woman's indi­vidual right to choose any means to limit her number of children. 
Although the Vatican, some observant Muslims, and some other religious groups want to emphasize more spiritual and what they call family values, the conference itself was not expected to significantly dilute its commitment to individual choice in family planning. 
Population conference offi­cials say the draft is enlight­ened, ethical and realistic. 
Conference chairman Fred Sai of Ghana said in rebuttal from the podium, "One ques­tions ... the ethics of trying to impose the views of one group on the rest of mankind." 
Wirth, the U.S. delegate, meanwhile declared in his re­marks that: "Good quality vol­untary family planning and the full range of reproductive health services should be uni­versally available early in the next century. 
"Coercion must be absent from all such programs." 
Abortion should be "safe, le­gal and rare," Wirth said. "Every effort should be made to prevent unwanted pregnancies, but in the interest of public health and as a matter of prin­ciple, women should have ac­cess to safe abortion services and humane services for com­plications due to unsafe abor­tions." 
P R I :'\ C I P L E S of S 0 U :'\ D R E T I R E :\\ E :'\ T I N \' EST I !'\ G 




By LARRY O'DELL 
Associated Press 

RICHMOND 
Oliver North's opponent for the U.S. Senate nomination sought to focus the race on North's bout with depression 20 years ago and wound up 
fielding ques­tions about his own psy­chiatric coun­seling. 
J a m e s Miller released a 


of tax returns Oliver North and FBI records on his background and urged his Republican opponent to do the same. North declined and accused Miller of smear tactics. 
·"Today he lowered himself even further into the mud, and it looks like he is going to stay there," North said. 
A GOP challenger to Democratic incumbent Charles Robb will be chosen at a June 4 nominating convention. Robb faces three challengers in his party's June 14 primary. 
Unidentified sources in the Miller campaign told several newspapers the documents were intended to raise the question of whether North cov­ered up his mental health his­tory. The sources said North may have done so to obtain se­curity clearance when he joined the National Security Council staff in 1981. 
North, the retired Marine of­ficer who was the central fig­ure in the Iran-Contra scandal during the Reagan administra­tion, was hospitalized for de­pression in 1974, after return­ing from military duty in Okinawa. He wrote about the ordeal in his book, "Under Fire." 
The FBI conducted back­ground checks on both North and Miller before they went to work for the federal govern­ment. Miller was chairman of the Federal Trade Commission before serving as President Reagan's budget director. 
At a news conference Tuesday, Miller said he would let the public decide whether North's illness should be an is­sue. 
''I'm more concerned about whether there has been full disclosure than whether there has been any treatment," he said. 
Then, in response to a re­porter's question, Miller said he consulted a psychiatrist about "a mood disorder" that has affected his family for three generations. 
"I talked about my own good days and bad days" in the ses­sions several years ago, Miller said. He said the sessions were "about family behavior" but would not say who else was af­fected by the problem. 
He said he has not been diag­nosed with a mental illness. 
The only mention of Miller's medical history in the docu­ments is a brief letter from his physician saying he is in good health but needs to watch his blood pressure and lose some weight. 
Miller said he was just trying to set a standard for full disclo­sure by all the candidates, Democratic and Republican. 

C
an't afford to save for retirement? The truth is, you can't afford not_ to. Not when you realize that your retirement can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want to live at least as comfortably then as you do now. And that takes planning. 
By starting to save now, you can take advantage oftax-deferral and give your money time to compound and grow. Consider this: set aside just $wo each month beginning at age 30 and you can accumulate over $172,109* by the time you reach age 65. But wait ten years and you'll have to budget $219 each month to reach the same goal. 
Even ifyou're not counting the years to retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF to help you build the future you deserve­with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvest­ment choices, and a record ofpersonal service that spans 75 years. 
Over a million people in education and research put TIAA-CREF at the top of their list for retirement planning. Why not join them? 
Call today and learn how simple it is to build a secure tomorrow when you have time and TIAA-CREF working on your side. 
StR:rt planningyourfuture. Ctul our EnroUment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. 
75 years ofensuring the future for those who shape it:'" 


*Auuming an inltrul raft of 7.00% rmJ<Itd to TIAA Rttinmtnl Annuitiu. Tbi.r raft i.r u.rttlsokly to Jbo.. tbt po""'r anJ tf/ttt of rompounJing. Lo""'r or bigber ratu woulJ proJua vtry Ji/fertnt rt.fultJ. CREF ttrtifu:atu an Ji.rtrihuttJ hy TIAA-CREF lnJi•iJua/ aniJ !n.ttilutwnal Strvicu. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Wednesday, April 6, 1994 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFiCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
Neon Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Rt:gan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spotts Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Resolution injurious to all campus groups 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter in re­sponse to the situation cur­rently facing The Observer and The Observer Marketing Department from the perspec­tive of a club president. 
Thousands of students are members of clubs and other groups and activities sponsored by student government. By not alloWing clubs to use govern­ment money for advertising, the only effect that will be achieved will be that of stran­gling a primary source of com­munication for a major part of Notre Dame life. 
Many groups depend on The Observer for transmission of information, and the only thing that will be accomplished by this fool-hardy resolution will be hurting the very life-blood for a majority of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
I fmd it hard to believe that Frank Flynn, a supposed rep­resentative of the student body, and Club Coordinator Frank McGehee would even dream of such an outrageous proposal, and that student government would even pass it. · 
I applaud Hall President's Council for voting against this asinine plan and call on all members to protest this harm­ful action. 
MEGAN KEENAN 
President 
ND/SMC Synchro Club 

Goodbye to heroine 
Dear Editor: 
Heroes and heroines are an American tradition. But in our Jove of those who perform feats of derring-do, glitzy sports stars, and glamorous actors, we often neglect to recognize those people who have a qui­eter, but no less admirable nobility 
Elizabeth Noel was my Victorian literature teacher for two months this semester. It was apparent to everyone in the class that she was frail. We did not know (and she would not tell us} that she was suffer­ing from cancer. 
Despite the pain that she must have been going through, Miss Noel came to class every day. Her mind so dominated 
DOONESBURY 
L./57EN TO JH/5, OUK/3: 'W!U. f}()lJG WILJJ&R. R/3JOIN 7Hl3 RAtb FOR 513NATOROF VIR6/NIA?!Fq], H8 POS/35A MA-vRN&tU 711/?CAT 7D FORM/3R. IRAN6ATe {i)N5PIR­
ATOR OI-IV!3R.L-. NOR:TH r 
her body that when she dis­cussed the literature that was her passion, her illness was not even noticeable. Her pleasure in the humor of Dickens, the truths of Newman, and the phi­losophy of Arnold was con­tagious. She was unwavering in her desire to communicate to her students that same love and pleasure. 
Miss Noel died last week in as unassuming a way as she had lived. The strength of her character will continue to res­onate through the lives of those she touched. 
KATHLEEN URDA 
Freshman 
Regina Hall 


I 

St1Lident Senate out of line 
Dear Ediltor: 
Tuesday's (March 29, 1994} paper contained an important announeement overlooked by much of the student body. Apparently, The Observer has some sort of half-baked plan to start its own marketing busi­
'Jf AciWorks is doing 

such a great job, how would they get run out of business by a bunch of rookies trying to over­come set-up charges ...?' 
ness and publish a weekly entertainment magazine. 
Both of these ideas would compete with two current stu­dent-run groups. Adworks and Scholastitc, respectively. 
Student Senate, the bastion of liberalism and laissez-faire ideals, voted to start a boycott of The Observer starting April 15 if both proposed plans are not canceled. What a crock. 
Taking· into account that The Observnr charge of $6 per semester is about as voluntary as eating crappy food, we stu­dents should have the choice of whether or not to subscribe to the daily rag, but we don't. 
Admittedly, The Observer does have an existing monetary surplus of significant numbers in its operating budget, but wasn't there a principle of com­petition, an open market of sorts, mentioned somewhere in America's genealogical past? 
The arguments set forth by· our representatives were based on their belief in the lack of ne­cessity for competition among student-run organizations. After all, the cry was heard that Adworks doesn't operate on a for-profit basis so The Observer will simply run them out of business (you're right, that doesn't make sense). 
Wait a minute there, Chuckos, if Adworks is doing such a great job, how would they get run out of business by a bunch of rookies trying to overcome set-up charges and master the learning curve? Something stinks. 
Meanwhile, the proposed entertainment magazine, pur­portedly created to supplement the excess advertising that The Observer is swamped with, is also under fire by our trusted delegates. "You can't compete with Scholastic, it's not fair" were some of the whines at­tributed to our spokespeople. 
I am of the opinion that the editorial content and special­interest stories of the Scholastic are in sharp contrast to the ser­vices provided by our campus newspaper and even in contrast to what The Observer's new magazine would provide. 
Okay, granted I don't know all the fine details of this epic dispute, but the gist is enough to make me puke. It's bad enough the administration here is so retentive, but why do the students want to establish a central economy and quash some healthy competition? What's next? Censorship because Student Senate voted for it? 
Give it a rest people, competi­tion only helps the consumer, who, in this case, is the student body. As it is, we don't have very many rights anyway, so why try to restrict our privi­leges? Maybe Student Senate is "P.O.'d" because The Observer won't give it the free meals Hall Presidents' Council ravages from our tuition. 
Look, I'm not going to lie to you guys, I voted for a Student Senate representative because I supported the candidate, but, as our spokespeople, they don't have the right to stifle some of our basic privileges as Americans (mostly) and stu­dents. GM and Motorola are having understandably tough times breaking into the notori­ously Japanese market, but the Notre Dame literary scene too? 
My personal interest in. this entire affair, besides the whole idea of a central economy, is that, as AnTostal Chairman, I will not be allowed to advertise in The Observer for AnTostal unless the newspaper rescinds its 'threat' to operate compet­ing businesses. This is oppres­sion of a sort (okay-not like what's going on in China, but 
' Its bad enough the administration here is so retentive, but why do the students want to establish a central econ­omy and quash some healthy competition?' 
still... ) and I have no choice but to submit. Theoretically, I could pay for the ads out of my own pocket, but all my pockets are already triple mortgaged to various sordid credit card com­panies. 
I think the Student Senate's vote was totally out of line, uncalled for, totalitarian-like, and mostly, plain-old stupid. 
SEAN ARTHURS 
AnTostal Chairperson 
Student Union Board 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''We'll inherit the Earth, but we don't want it." 
-The Replacements 


-ACCENT 
Wednesday, April 6, 1994 page 13 
Daytime dramas appeal to Domers 
Students rearrange Soap operas attract ND men 
By THERESA ALEMAN football, baseball-what is it major. Assistant Accent Editor about soap operas that has men "I started watching with my
schedules for soaps 
"Loving" them? friends in Farley. At first I 
Billy and Austin Reed just For some it's a matter of se­thought it was stupid and silly,
reality. Everyone has their
By BEVIN KOVALIK found out that Kate Roberts is crecy. For others it's a matter but I soon got interested in the 
Assistant Accent Editor favorite characters and with 
their mother. Bo, Billy's of ironic viewership with plot and adopted a favorite 
today's generation, soaps aren't boyfriend, is a suspect in the groups, still for others it's a character-John Black. He's just for women anymore. 
murder of her father. Marlena non-stop watch for babes. sexy in a sinister sort of way"Like raindrops off the gold­"There is nothing I enjoy still hasn't gone back to Roman With girlfriends, over dinner, which is a cool way to geten dome, so go the days of our more than scoping out Carrie but we keep hoping. Carrie between classes-any time, babes," said Aaron Villaruz, aIrish lives." on 'Days of Our Lives.' Sparks 
Brady is healing from being they're talking about them, sophomore Japanese and
Yes, it's true-those hot day­will always fly as the screen raped by Alan but when (if they're watching them, and Computer Applications major. 
time dramas will beckon to us heats up with a romantic inter­ever) will he get caught? some are even arranging with "I try to watch every day," he as we lie helplessly on the lude or two," shared one male Are these "The Days of Our DART to watch them no matter said. Aaron even admitted tocouch at the mercy of the closet soap opera watcher. 
Lives?'' What is it that brings what. having skipped classes to watch remote control. So, what's the "Soap operas? I'd rather be people into "Another World" -a "They're fun-nothing like real "Days of Our Lives" and con­attraction? studying my Hydrodynamic en­world in which the women life. The acting is kinda' fessed to having taken the soap
"Soaps like 'The Young and gineering," said Will Freve the Restless' interest me Keenan Hall junior. 
"If I absolutely have to attend'If I absolutely have to classes during the same time as attend classes during 'Days of Our Lives' then I hook up the VCR and tape the show," 
the same time as 'Days 
said Howard Hall junior Andrea of Our Lives' then I hook Foster. "It's so easy to get hooked," 
up the VCR and tape the 
Foster added. 
show.' For some students they find it difficult to shake their soap ob­sessions. 
Andrea Foster Howard Hall junior "Before the time change I could never watch 'General because many of the plots Hospital.' But now I can gaze at involve young people and I can Sonny every day at the week at 
relate well to them," said Erin 2 p.m. instead of 3 p.m.," said McNamara, Badin Hall sopho­Howard Hall junior Erin Wig. more. Will the days of our lives at 
wear evening gowns and never 'hoakie' so we [basically] sit schedule into consideration for 
Notre Dame ever compare to develop acne or retain watel'. and make fun of them," said next semester's registration.
Som~times the kiss o'f the those wild antics on daytime 
A world in which men are mus­Jon McGhee, a sophomore biol­So whether they're addicts orcentury is more important than television? For the most part, cle-bound and tanned year­ogy major. casual viewers, men are watch­that physics test looming over­students can only live vicari­round. When someone dies, "Oh we just watch between ing soap operas. They knowhead. Will that dashing muscu­ously through the adventures of they either have a twin or come classes to laugh at them," said the plots and they know thelar journalist get together with their favorite stars. 
back to life-either way, they Shafu Ladha, a sophomore pre· characters. Whether it's thethe beautiful and voluptuous never have only "One Life to med. major who said he watch· outrageous story lines, theprincess or will she go back to Tune in tomorrow to find out Live." es "All My Children" about two good-looking characters, or theher step-brother whom she fell whether Billy and Austen are What "Guiding Light" is it to three times per week. boredom of the school dayin love with not knowing they actually happy as clams under that leads the "Young and the "I watch just because my which keeps them watching,are related? the sinister wing of their new 
Restless" men of Notre Dame to roommate does-but there's no men are watching soap operasMany students watch soaps found mother Kate. And just watch soap operas? Rugged male-bonding involved," swore at Notre Dame and they are 
as an afternoon escape from 
who is that man in black? men-men who play soccer, John Rodzik, a sophomore Art enjoying them. 
True North takes the campus music scene in a new direction 
By ROB ADAMS subtle hum of the flute through­irony of which he sings through Music Critic out the song, turns the lyrics a Blue Aeroplane-esque spo­from messy cursive into the fat ken-word format, Schaffler Sporting a style which seems graffiti that they become, addresses our injured ecology to fuse the bands of Jethro Tull, bouncing around due to through "Calling All Fish." A Spinal Tap, and Mary's Danish Honaker's colonial "little drum-virtual roller coaster of sound is into one big dustball of Elvis mer boy" taps. . constructed in the background Presley resightings, True North "Lucy's Trip from Africa," as the band will travel up to a have released their first demo the stormiest track on the tape climax, take the hill in stride, tape, "SivleSevil" and niched is, fittingly enough, the epitome and begin a new climb. "It's their mark on the Notre Dame of Nolan and Robert Johnigan addressing the issue of man's scene. working together. Their fuzzy abuse of the environment from 
"My favorite part of being in guitar couplets show them the point of view of fish," said True North is that we support rotating dizzily, back-to-hack, Schaffer. the concept of playing any kind revolving around the rest of the "September," the best track of music, even if people don't band. on the tape, utilizes all of True like it, we'll play it," said Chad Richard grabs his sax on North's strengths. The flute Schaffler, lead singer for the "Reason Why" and proves to be and gentle picks at a guitar band. tremendous on that instrument open the door to a view of the 
Schaffler is joined by Mike as well; his flute and saxophone entire band, gradually prepar­Nolan on lead guitar, Mark are constantly breathing new ing for the first chorus, the dra­Honaker on drums, Richard life into the other musical matic bridge, and then another Johnigan on flute and saxo­arrangements. Mike Nolan, in fantastic guitar solo by Nolan. phone, Chris Mueller on bass, the meantime, creates a blister­"It's about the way people view and Robert Johnigan playing ing guitar solo to wrap around change," said Chaffer, "lifecy­the other lead guitar. Mueller's funky bass picking cles, progression, and evolu­
Throughout "SivleSevil," which lingers in the back­tion." musical genres do not exist; one ground. sound is evident while various "Jesus he turns his head/And True North only obtained influences fuse and float he looks at his watch/He's only their demo tapes two weeks ago around the same way that three got fifteen minutes," Schaffler but have already sold about clouds might on a windy after­sings in his light southern 100 out of the 200 made. noon. Schaffler and Richard drawl (which has been drowned Tapes can be bought from any­Johnigan are hanging out on a out by the midwest), to begin one in the band, Orbit, or cirrus cloud, with lots of cute "Three Complete Faces." Tracks. "SivleSevil" exemplifies little bubbly notes coming out of Elsewhere jangling guitars and a journey onto many different ­Richard's flute. In the mean­sporadic notes from Richard's sets of only one stage, and the time, Honaker and Mueller are flute provide the highlights. wonder that goes along with
Johnigan are gruff and have
spacing out on a stratus cloud Seeming to shrug his shoul­the fact that so much can be
plans to make waves on their
while Nolan and Robert ders confusedly at the tattered done with so little.
cumulus cloud. 

page 14 

Heat 'D' stymies Knicks 
Associated Press • 
MIAMI 

Miami limited New York to 36 percent shooting and snapped the Knicks' 15· game winning streak with a 100-86 vic­tory Tuesday night. 
Harold Miner scored 22 points and Steve Smith 20 for the Heat, who lost seven of their previous eight games, in­cluding a 110-87 blowout at New York on Saturday. 
Miami earned its 39th victory of the season, breaking the franchise record set in 1992, the Heat's only playoff year. Grant Long had 17 rebounds for Miami, which outrebounded New York 52-43. 
Miner came off the bench to score 16 
points in the second quarter, rallying 
Miami from a four-point deficit into a 
56-45 halftime lead. Miner hit six free 
throws during an 11-0 run that gave Mi· 
ami an 86-68 l~ad. 
Patrick Ewing led New York with 18 
points and 11 rebounds. 
Magic 104, Bucks 97 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
Orlando, playing without ailing center 
Shaquille O'Neal, got 22 points and 10 
rebounds from Jeff Turner against 
Milwaukee. 
O'Neal sat out the game with a stom­
ach virus, the first time in his two-year 
career that he missed a game because of 
injury or illness. 
Turner took up the slack, scoring 14 
points in the first half when the Magic 
opened a 20-point lead. Rookie Penny 
Hardaway scored 21 points for the 
Magic, who need one more victory or 
another Charlotte loss to officially qual­
ify for the playoffs. 
Reserve forward Derek Strong and 
Eric Murdock had 22 points apiece for 
the Bucks, who have lost 13 of 15 
games. 

Cavaliers 105, Hornets 99 
RICHFIELD, Ohio 
John Williams scored 23 points and 
Cleveland overcame horrendous early 
shooting to beat Charlotte. 

The loss kept the Hornets winless in 13 trips to Richfield and further dam­aged the Hornets' hopes of making the playoffs. Cleveland closed the game with an 18-9 run, starting with Gerald Wilkins' tying 3-pointer with 4:51 left, and won for the filth time in six games. 
The Cavs need one more will to clinch a playoff berth. Rod Higgins scored a season-high 20 points for Cleveland, which needed the extra scoring because Mark Price went 2-for-12 and scored seven points. 
Dell Curry scored 22 for the Hornets, including five 3-pointers. Alonzo Mourning scored 19, but got into foul trouble midway through the third quar­ter and wasn't a factor down the stretch. 
Nets 120, Celtics ~14 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Boston's 14-year playoff run came to the end as New Jersey's reserves used a 23-6 second-quarter spurt to rout the Celtics. 
The last time the Celtics didn't make the playoffs was in 1978-79, when they posted a 29-53 mark the year before Larry Bird arrived and made Boston a perennial playoff power. 
However, the retirement or Bird and 
Kevin McHale over the past two seasons 
and the death of Reggie Lewis last sum­
mer depleted the Celtics, who are out of 
playoff contention with a 26-45 record. 
Jayson Williams scored 13 of his 
career-high 19 points in the second 
quarter, including a go-ahead jumper 
with 6:52 to play to ignite a 12-0 run. 
New Jersey led by 17 late in the second 
quarter and stretched the margin to 26 
in the third quarter. 
Bulls 114, Bullets 88 
CHICAGO 

Scottie Pippen had 22 points, 10 assists 
and nine rebounds, and Chicago used a 
21-8 run at the outset of the second half 
against Washington to win its fifth con­
secutive game. 
AP File Photo 

Patrick Ewing recorded a double-double last night, but he couldn't keep the Knicks from succumbing to the Heat. 
The victory was the Bulls' 11th in 13th games and it was their 15th straight over the Bullets, whose last win in Chicago was exactly six years ago. 
Chicago pulled away in the third quar­ter, when the 21-8 run opened a 73-55 lead with 5:31left. 
Pippen had 11 points in the period, which ended with Chicago ahead 87-69. The Bulls outshot Washington 58 per­cent to 39 percent in the quarter. 
Calbert Cheaney scored 19 points and Rex Chapman 18 for the Bullets. 
Warriors 106, Spurs 1 01 

SAN ANTONIO 
Latrell Sprewell scored 26 points and had two key steals in the final two min­utes. carrying Golden State to a victory that snapped San Antonio's six-game winning streak. 
Sprewell tied the game at 100 after a steal with 1:5 3 left and later scored again to give the Warriors the lead for good. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
..............KATHARSIS............. 
....Found-Cassette Tape .... Summer Resort Jobs -Earn to CO-ED SUMMER CAMP IN MAINE MOVING SALE!! White leather 
NOTICES 

I found a 'greatest hits' tape Friday $12/hr.+ tips. Locati<lns include: seeks staff from 6-17to 8-211o couch w/ Q-size fold-out bed, home-APRIL 15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in 
night in the faculty parking lot in Hawaii, Florida, Rocky Mountains, teach athletics, tennis, ropes cours-entertainment center, coffee table, Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway $$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S front of Stepan. It was in a Camelot Alaska, New England, etc. for es, rock climbing, backpacking, a-size bed, dresser/mirror, night Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss everyday but sunday until 5:30pm Music bag. Call me and identify the details call: 1-800-807-5950 ext. swimming, fishing, sailing, waterski-stand, high-boy dresser, glass/iron out. Fun starts at 10.For more 233-2342 ND ave & Howard lame artist on the tape and I may R5584. ing, performing arts and many table w/ chairs & more! information on gigs and parties 
give it back to you, along with a lee-more. Age 20+. Contact Camp Call273-1984. call237-9702. Ask for LENNY. Applications for lure on music. Wekeela's winter office at 1-800-••••••..•••••KATHARSis•••••••••••• Ryan --288-3952 CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up 959-31n. SOPHOMORE CLASS COUNCIL to $2000+/mo. on cruise ships or (Class of '97) land-tour companies. World travel. '91 Red Mercury Capri Convertible. 
FOR RENT 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Summer & full-time omployment 33K, Power locks, AM/FM Cassette Loving couple longs to share our are available in the Student Help!!! A purple Columbia jacket available. No exp necessary. For A/C. Call 233-5773. lives and love with your newborn. Government Offtee! was taken from 126 Debartolo on info call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES-we know you don't have an easy March 28 and I'm very cold. I am ND/SMC EVENTS 1985 Ford LTD White 96k mi. new choice, but our home will provide April1-8 offering a reward for its return or the (219)291-7153 battery $1200, 277-7405 your baby a future of love, happi-
All applications due the 8th. return of my glasses. Please call Companions for summer trans-US ness and security. Sean at631-8839 to claim your bike tour 273-6109 COLLEGE PARK IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME Call Susan & Jim 219 289-4412 Questions? Call John x1975 reward. CONDOMINIUMS NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ -1/4 mile from library REALTV 272-6306,232-1466 -New appliances 
ILOST & FOUND I 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING --2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath, 
Found-Earn up to $2000+/month working -Washer & Dryer units w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to Quality Copies, Quickly. LOST-LOST-LOST-LOST Gold Bracelet at The Village on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com--Large closets P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN THE COPY SHOP Gold Bracelet Landing on Friday March 25. Call panies. World travel. Summer & -Covered parking 46634 LaFortune Student Center A men's gold, rope chain bracelet to identify @ x0915. Ask for Ryan. Full-Time employment available. No -Security System Phone 631-COPY was lost somewhere on campus. If experience necessaty. For more -Large balconies found information call 1-20•3-634-0468 ext. Units now available-LOFT AVAILABLE: 
.... please call Keith @4-1824. FOUND: Black Casio Watch on C6675 Builder's Square kit, call to arrange 
4/4/94 in front of Fisher/Pangbom $660 per month ..... Going Quickly!! for storage 2448 In a hurry... FOUND: long gold necklace with on the quad. If it is yours call Erika ••••••••cALL: 272-0691•••••••••• don 'I worry. small crucifix pendant. Found in at4-4059. ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER FAX IT! 
TICKETS
Debartolo studenUfaculty meeting EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO at room 158. Call4-1675to claim. $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN-Attn Seniors Move from Dorms to THE COPY SHOP NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. Wrigleyville, avail May 1 for 1 yr HELP!! I need extra grad. tix LaFortune Student Center 
WANTED 

LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC-lease-Large 3 BR in graystone two call PIER 273-4909 NEW LOWER PRICES! 
ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL flat, new kitchen with DW, & dispos­$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum-OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN-al. New bath, easy street parking, Schlage, mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860-TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 close to el. WID included. Louis '84 My White T-shirt or Little Rabbit 
PERSONAL 
• FOUND BOOK • 0219 ext A29. 1080/mo 312/472-7775 Fufu gets his head bitten off. 
"PEACEWORKS" found in B 1 lot behind the CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up 1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES. We are a young white Christian ATTENTION ND/SMC BALLRpOM 
Univ.Ciub calllf8210 to claim to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW couple in their thirties, who live far DANCE CLUB MEMBERS: Class Land-Tour companies. World travel. -Earn up to & FALL STARTING AT $225. MO. away from the busy city life on 2000 this Thursday is at Lori's house. Summer & Full-Time employment $8,000+ in two months. Room & GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6306 acres. Tremendous amount of love Meet at the LIBRARY CIRCLE at 
Found available. No exp necessary. For Board! Transportation! Male or is waiting for the special child we 7:45 and we will carpool. Ques? Money in Riley, third floor info. call1-206-634-0468 ext. Female. No experience necessary! look forward to adopting. Call Brent Call Laurie 4-3490. 
FOR SALE
Contact Katie, 277 6703 C5584 Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584 or Tina at 1-800-206-7727. 



--------------------·------------~~------r..--~-.---------------------­
Wednesday, April 6, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS 
Foreigners dominate Masters 
By BOB GREEN 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

The Masters, that most American of golf champi­onships, no longer belongs to the homebreds. 
The trend is well-established. It began with Seve Ballesteros in 1980 and '83, was confirmed by Nick Faldo in 1989 and '90, and enhanced by Bernhard Langer in '85 and '93. 
There is no reason to believe that foreign domination -vic­tories in nine of the last 16 Masters, including five of the last six -will end in the 1994 Masters. 
Faldo trying to find lost form 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

Forget Ryder Cup revenge. Nick Faldo is out for himself this week as he tries to win his third Masters. 
"This is just me and my golf ball," said Faldo, who won both the 1989 and 1990 Masters in playoffs. 
Europeans, who have lost two consecutive Ryder Cups to the Americans, won five of the last six Masters, with only a victory by Fred Couples breaking the 
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK 
COURSES ADDED 
EDUC  475  76  #8476  Student Teaching Secondary Sch.; var. cr. hrs; MTWHF 8:00-4:00; also meets W 4:00-5:30  
liPS  283  OJ  #4087  Christian Social Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 11:15-12:05; Permission Required; Cross-listed with THEO 283-01  
llllS• l:H  ~  5i)o! 01  ·Ot'->•~ *4()86uLJ  ~fit E€:·TheotrforNoneco'ricomisli; 3 cr. hrs.; W 06:J0-09:00P.M:Class; Cross'listed with ECON 504-01  
LAW  604  01  #4082  Advanced Tax Seminar; 2 cr. hrs.; TH 03:00-03:50; Law students only  
LAW  612  OJ  #4084  Banking and Commercial Paper; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-1 0:45; Law students only  
LAW  680A  01  #4081  Insurance; 2 cr. hrs.; TH 11:00-11:50; Law students only  
LAW  684A  01  #4083  International Business Transactions; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 11:00-12:15; Law students only  
LAW  700  01  #4085  Nonresident Thesis Dissertation; I cr. hr.; Law students only  
Ml  436  01  #4076  La Letteratura dei Yiaggi; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00; cross-listed with ROIT 435-01  
Ml  535  01  #4075  La Letteratura dei Viaggi; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00; cross-listed with ROIT 435-01  
PHIL  241  03  #4058  Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 01:15-02:30  
PHIL  241  04  #4059  Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00  
PHIL  241  05  #4060  Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00  
PHIL  241  06  #4061  Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 04:15-05:30  
PHIL  242  01  #4062  Basic Concepts Political Phil.; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 09:05-09:55  
PHIL  242  02  #4063  Basic Concepts Political Phil.; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10-11:00  
PHIL  266  01  #4064  Faith and Philosophical Inquiry; 3 cr.hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00  
PHIL  266  02  #4065  Faith and Philosophical Inquiry; 3 cr.hrs.; TH 04:15-05:30  
PHIL  302  01  #4066  History of Modem Philosophy; 3 cr. hrs.;TH 11:00-12:15  
PSY  211  02  #4053  Introductory Psychology; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 09:05-09:55  
THEO  201  01  #4088  Found. ofTheo: Biblcl Hsrrcl; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45; Permission Required; Obtain authorization numbers  
from the Honors Program Office  
CHAN GES  
AERO  346L  01  #4011  Change time to: F 11:15-01:05  
BA  490  ALL  SECTIONS  Add pre-requisite: FIN 360 and FIN 361  
BIOS  250  01  ,#3188  Remove BIOS 241 as a pre-requisite  
BIOS  401L  02  #3198  Change time to: MW 01:15-03:15  
BIOS  420  01  #3(99  Change time to: MWF 09:05-09:55  
BIOS  422  01  #3203  Change title to: "Marine Biology"  
CHEM  333  01  #1340  Remove restriction of "CHEG majors"  
COSH  481  01  #3472  Change time to : MW 08:40-09:55  
COTH  377  01  #2752  Change restriction to:(COTH 101 or 104 or 201 or 204)&(COTH 210 or 211) or permission; Majors only  
ECON  115  01  #2540  Change time to: TH 01:15-02:30  
ECON  225  02  #1400  Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45  
ECON  303  01  #!406  Remove corequisite ECON 303L  
ECON  563  01  #3505  Change time to: TH 04:15-05:30  
EE  453  01  #1443  Change time to: MWF 10:10-11:00  
EE  498A  01  #3054  Change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05  
EE  568  01  #3137  Change time to: MWF 09:05-09:55  
EE  598A  01  #1035  Change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05  
ENOL  322B  01  #3779  Change tide to: 20th Century British Novel  
FIN  372  01  #3154  Change pre-requisite to: FIN 231 and 360 and 380 and BA 230  
GOVT  491A  01  #0333  Change title to: "Inter. Rei. in East Asia"; change instructor to Moody;  

change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05  
LAW  59IA  01  #0921  Change credit hours should be 3.0  
LAW  603  01  #2519  Change time to: M 01:00-01:50 and T H 01:00-02:15  
LAW  606B  01  #1714  Change time to: MW 03:15-04:30  
LAW  616A  01  #0918  Change days and time to: T H 03:00-03:50  
LAW  652A  01  #0917  Change days and time to: TH 12:30-01:20  
PHYS  621  01  #3952  Change time to: MWF 12:15-01:05  
THEO  274  OJ  #IOOO  Register at Center for Social Concerns (C.S.C)  

COURSES  MATH  104  04  #0174  COMM  103  09  9709  
CANCELLED  PHIL  222  01  #4029  COMM  300  16  9716  
BA  363  03  #1202  PHIL  301  02  #4030  COMM  303  18  9718  
ENOL  317A  01  #3778  THEO  100  04  #2377  ENOL  415C  01  3791  
ENOL  340  01  #2531  ENOL  428C  01  3794  
GOVT  314  01  #3966  CLOSED COURSES  GEOS  141L  05  4016  
GOVT  334  01  #3541  AMST  319E  02  3864  GOVT  242T  01  3515  
liPS  334  01  #4006  A \1ST  382H  01  3867  GOVT  242T  04  3518  
LAW  601  01  #]711  ANTH  386  01  3388  GOVT  243T  07  3533  
LAW  601  02  #1712  ARCH  543  03  0935  HIST  354A  01  3587  
LAW  689  01  #1733  ARCH  543  04  3376  HIST  453A  01  3595  
ARCH  565  01  3365  H!ST  458A  01  2873  

"The odds look pretty good for a foreign win," Langer, the defending title-holder from Germany, said before a practice round for the tournament that begins Thursday at the Augusta National Golf Club. 
Those odds are strengthened, English ace Nick Faldo said, by the absence of "your top two players," Fred Couples and Paul Azinger. 
Azinger, the PGA champion, is undergoing cancer treatment and Couples, a two-time PGA Tour Player of the Year, is out with a herniated disc in his lower back. 
Even Johnny Miller, the 47­year-old player-turned-TV an-
string in 1992. A herniated disk will prevent Couples, the 1992 Masters champion, from being here this year. 
Faldo has difficulty explaining why the Europeans play so well at Augusta. 
"We really don't get as many greens as slick as these in Eu­rope," he said. "There is no rough. You always get a perfect 
I. ..
Ie. 
Faldo said Europeans will be a big threat again because of the absence of Couples, PGA champion Paul Azinger, who has cancer, and Phil Mickelson, who broke a leg skiing. 
nouncer-turned-player, pointed to a non-American as the likely winner of the first of the year's Big Four events. 
"Anybody in his right mind has to think this is Greg Nor­man's year," Miller said. "All systems are go. He has it in his mind that this tournament is his. You can just sense that he's in a position, for the first time, to dominate golf like everyone always thought he would.'' 
Norman, the British Open champion, scored a runaway, record-setting victory in the prestigious Players Champi­onship in his last outing. It was impressive enough to catch Langer's attention. 
"Fred and Azinger would be in the top two," Faldo said. ''I've played with Jeff Maggert and he's putting well. He could be a darkhorse for the Ameri­cans. Of course, Tom Kite plays well here. 
"Having the top Americans injured takes a little bit away from the field. You want to be able to say you beat the best players in the world when you win." 
Faldo hasn't won a major since the 1992 British Open, but said his game is back to a championship-winning level. 
HIST 471A 01 3599 HIST 474A 01 2686 MGT 240 ·04 1878 MGT 240 06 1879 MUS 226 01 1932 PHIL 246 01 2015 PHIL 261 02 0653 RLST 240 50 9550 soc 401 01 3917 THEO 253 01 1003 

SUNDAY, APRIL 10, 1994 1:00-5:00p.m. 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
-Stages of relationship -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions -Maintaining long-distance relationships 
THERE IS NO COST FOR THE PROGRAM, BUT ... PRE.;REGISTRATION BY APRIL 7 IS REQUIRED Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Questions? Call 631-5242 
I 
i 
I I 
. I 
-
.... ­


Associated Press "It's a great feeling to finally win it, but I go back to work tomorrow," Richardson said on 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. the tarmac at Drake Field. ''I've 
As the weary coach left the not been to sleep yet. I can airport Tuesday, the chant rose hardly wait to get home." from the crowd: "No-LAN, No­Scotty Thurman, whose arch­LAN, No-LAN." ing 3-pointer with 50 seconds 
About 3,000 fans welcomed left put Arkansas ahead for 
the Arkansas Razorbacks home good, also was ready for bed the day after Nolan Richard­after making the rounds of the son's team won the NCAA bas­Tuesday morning news shows. 
ketball championship by beat­"I just got a little time to sleep ing Duke 76-72. on the plane," Thurman said. 
Young players make Razorbacks special 
By HARRY KING Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Arkansas basketball fans, sa­vor the moment. It was some kind of finish to some kind of year: 
-a first NCAA championship. -a No. 1 seed in the Midwest Regional. -a No. 1 ranking for nine weeks. 
No matter what coach Nolan Richardson has told his players about no respect, this team now resides at the summit of college basketball. 
Whether there will be a re­turn to the summit next year is another matter. The Razor­backs will have just about all of their players back, but that guarantees precious little. 
In 1990, when Todd Day, Lee Mayberry and Oliver Miller were sophomores, the Razor­backs made it to the Final Four. 
Wait 'til next year, people said. 
In 1991, Arkansas lost in the finals of the Southeast Re­gional. 
Then thoughts turned to Day, Mayberry and Miller as seniors in 1992. By that time, they were probably all ready for the NBA and Arkansas lost to Memphis State in the second 
,-----­
Saint Mary's College Sesquicentennial Lecture Series 
Jt1 JJ!e in the 'Iheater" 
Pulitzer Prize ..Winning 
Playwright 
Wendy Wasserstein 
April 16, 7:30 p.m. 
_., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
----~------­
--~------~----~--­
page 16 The Observer • NCAA Wednesday, April 6, 1994 
National Champions celebrate homecoming 
Duke seniors remain proud 
round of the tournament. 

This 1994 group was special -they genuinely enjoyed play­ing the game. Outside of the Kentucky game in the Southeastern Conference tour­nament, they played hard every game. 
There was no jealousy. Not when Al Dillard was getting all kinds of notice for his long­range shooting. Not when a TV technician used an electronic il­lustrator to expound on Corliss Williamson's shaved head. 
Guys on the bench swooned at their teammate's dunks and 3s. Everybody swooned at Scotty Thurman's killer 3-pointer with 50 seconds left Monday night in the 76-72 victory over Duke. 
The only two seniors are Roger Crawford, who broke his ankle in the second round of the NCAA tournament. and Ken Biley. 
Crawford started four games and averaged more than seven points per game. His biggest contribution came when he re­lieved Corey Beck or Clint Mc­Daniel in the pressure defense. 
Biley played in only 18 games and averaged less than three points per game. 
Also back will be Dwight Stewart, Darnell Robinson, Lee Wilson, Davor Rimae and Elmer Martin. 


Teammate Clinton McDaniel beamed and waved his arms at the crowd. 
"This is what Arkansas bas­ketball is all about," he said of the fans. 
Added Corey Beck: "I haven't had much time to think about it. But the fans were great, and this is real great to see them here today." 
The players waded through the crowd, smiling and shaking hands. 
By DAVID DROSCHAK Associ•1ted Press 

DURHAM, N.C. Disappointment showed on Mike Krzyzewski's face but not 
in hils heart after Duke's loss to Arka~nsas in the national champi­onship game.The Blue Devil 


coac 11 stayed Krzyzewski awake for hours after the 76-72 defeat Monday night wondering why. "Last night I didn't sense one bit of disappointment," Krzyzewski said Tuesday. "I even had to come to grips with why I didn't feel sad and how come I didn't feel disappointed. "I didn't know the answer completely. I do know I sensed pride. I was proud to be repre­senting Duke and representing 
A special ceremony was planned for Wednesday at 6 
p.m. in Bud Walton Arena, when the team will receive the CNN-USA Today championship trophy. 
"We don't have to talk about respect anymore," said Arkansas athletic Director Frank Broyles. Winning the tournament "gives you a dif­ferent level of acceptance. and the respect will be there," he said. 

Arkansas student Toby Mc­Carter's head was shorn clean except for the back of his head, where the barber had spelled out "hogs." 
''I'm just showing support for my Hogs," Carter said. "I couldn't go to Charlotte, so I thought it was the best thing I could do." 
Fans waved signs that said "Razorback Hogs Are Tough, Talented and Intelligent" and "Duke Who?" 
these kids. I didn't know to what extent until I walked in here," he said, referring to a welcome-home crowd of about 2,000 cheering fans at Cameron Indoor Stadium. 
After all, how could Krzyzewski feel sad about this Duke team, which he once again Tuesday called his fa­vorite? 
Although the Blue Devils had been to six of the previous eight Final Fours and won titles in 1991 and 1992, the team's run toward the 1994 NCAA title was certainly unexpected. 
Duke finished 28-6 after searching for early-season chemistry with the loss of all­time assist leader Bobby Hur­ley. They never dropped out of the top 10 and won the Atlantic Coast Conference regular-sea­son title over favored North Carolina, last year's champ. 
"I feel an emptiness for me," said an emotional Krzyzewski, who broke down and cried halfway through his 15-minute speech to fans. "The journey from Nov. 1 until now was a journey that not one bit of my fiber wants to end. I loved coaching my team. 
"They made me better. They made me happy. They never made me sad. They made me proud." 
Duke's three seniors -Marty Clark, Antonio Lang and Grant Hill -were each an important part of the team. 
Clark became Duke's sixth man off the bench. a depend­able shooter and ballhander Krzyzewski could count on for instant offense. 
Lang was the unsung forward playing alongside Hill. and late in the season became one the team's emotional leaders. 
And Hill became one of the game's most complete players. When Duke needed a clutch shot, rebound, assist or steal, it was the All-American who usu­ally produced. 


~-----·-~~---------­
Wednesday, April6, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
Ellis takes over Auburn job 
over an 
Ellis

Auburn team that has had only one winning season in six years. 
After a three-week search that involved at least two other coaches removing themselves from consideration, Ellis agreed to a five-year contract to replace Tommy Joe Eagles. 
Eagles, who resigned under pressure on March 15, left be­hind a program in shambles. In five years, his record was 64­ed to establish myself at a pro­gram that I could revitalize. That's where Cliff Ellis gets the most satisfaction. That's what Cliff Ellis is best at." 
Ellis, who will receive a base salary of $100,000 annually with perks bringing the total deal to about twice that, faces the stigma of appearing to be a backup choice for Auburn, which had to get a coach on board with signing day a week away. 
WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 8 & 9 
JACCCOURTS MEN'S & WOMEN'S DIVISIONS T-SHIRTS TO ALL PARTICIPANTS BRING YOUR OWN RACQUET BALLS WILL BE PROVIDED REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS DEADLINE: THURSDAY. APRIL 7 $6.00FEE 
~~ 
New athletic director David Housel said as much when he pointed out, "Pat Dye was not Auburn's ftrst choice in 1981, but I would say he did a pretty good job of having success here with our football program. I'm not going to confirm that (Ellis) was not our first choice, but I'm not denying either." 
Auburn, which has seen its basketball attendance drop since its last NCAA appearance in 1988 and also lost more than $4 million last year due to foot­ball probation, did not have a lucrative financial package to offer a big-name coach. 
The school reportedly reached an agreement last week with Duke assistant Mike Brey, only to have him back out. Another leading contender, former Auburn assistant and current Tennessee-Chattanooga coach Mack McCarthy, also removed himself as a candidate last week. 
Finally, Auburn settled on El­lis, who said none of the be­hind-the-scene dealings matter. "I think the point to be made is where we are today," he said. "Let's get it on." 
Ellis faces a difficult time 
schedule. He must assemble a 
staff -he said he would con­
sider his former assistants at 
Clemson as well as the 
holdovers from Eagles' staff ­
and get busy recruiting. Signing 
day is April 13, which may 
force Ellis to assemble most of 
his fJ.rst recruiting class from 
the junior-college ranks. 
"All you can do now is sal­
vage," he conceded. "You've 
got to ask people to hold off 
signing because there's no way 
we can get them here (for a 
visit) until after the signing day. 
You've got to beg for mercy." 

By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
AUBURN, Ala. When Cliff Ellis resigned after a decade as Clemson's basket­
ball coach, he said he was looking for new chal­lenges. Tuesday, he found a big one, taking 78, including an 11-17 mark this season. Only the 1993 team posted a winning record (15­


12) but, ironically, lost in the fJ.rst round of the NIT to Ellis' Clemson team. 
Ellis, who announced in Jan­uary he was leaving Clemson, said he is used to rebuilding programs. 
"I simply thought I had taken the Clemson program as far as I could possibly take it," he said at a news conference. "I want­


ON THEIRWAY TO THE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
an Army officer. You'll also have attending Army ROTC Camp Chal­the self-confidence and discipline lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and course in leadership training. beyond. 
ARMY ROTC: 

m SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
Associated Press 

SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
The city's CBS affiliate may lose "60 Minutes" -and its net­work ties -if it goes ahead with a plan to carry Fox broadcasts of Chicago Bears games this fall. 
CBS, which lost its four­decade grip on NFC games when it was outbid by the up­start Fox Broadcasting Co. in December, has said it will offer "60 Minutes" to another South Bend-area station if WSBT goes ahead with plans to carry the Bears next season. 
CBS said in a written state­ment that it will "have to con­sider the impact of WSBT-TV's apparent inability to carry '60 Minutes' -a signature pro­gram of the CBS Television Network -on its longterm re­lationship with CBS." 
South Bend is the largest tele­vision market in the nation without a Fox affiliate. The 7­year-old network's Chicago sta­tion is available on cable, but only about half the homes in the South Bend area subscribe. 
Chicago is 90 miles west of South Bend, and WSBT broad­cast Bears games each of the 38 seasons CBS had the con­tract. The station signed an agreement with Fox last month to carry the Bears and about seven hours of other Fox pro­gramming. 
CBS hasn't yet told its affili­ates how it will fill its Sunday afternoons this fall, and affili­ates are allowed to program as they like in time slots the net­work hasn't filled. 
CBS spokeswoman Ann Mor­fogen did not return calls Tues­day. 
James D. Freeman, WSBT's president and general man­ager, disagreed with CBS's statement that the station would be unable to carry "60 Minutes" if it also broadcast the Bears. 

The station can delay its Sun­-....... day night programming, in­cluding "60 Minutes," if foot­ball games run over their time slot, Freeman said. CBS rou­tinely pushed back the starting time of "60 Minutes" in the past. 
Robert Kalthoff, vice president and general manager at WSJV, the South Bend market's ABC affiliate, said he has had pre­liminary talks with CBS about "60 Minutes." 
Freeman would not comment on the program's status with his station. 



The Observer • NATIONAL LEAGUE Wednesday, April 6, 1994 
Mets win second straight 


Associa1red Press 

CHICAGO 
Pete Smith and a couple of other newcomers have the New York Mets off to a nice start in the new season. 
Smith pitched seven strong innin,gs in his debut and New York won its second straight game, beating the Chicago Cubs 6-2 on a chilly Tuesday. 
Kelly Stinnett had a two-run double for his first major leag01e hit and Jose Vizcaino scored two more runs for the Mets. 
The Mets also won their first two games last season, against Colorado, before going 59-103 for the worst record in the rna-
AP File Photo The blowing winds of Wrigley did not gives the Cubs the necessary homefield advantage, as chilly weather aided the Mets to a 6-2 victory. 
Hill unassailable as Expos best Astros 
By MICHAEL A. LUTZ 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Ken Hill finds his comfort zone every time he faces the Houston Astros. 
Hill beat Houston for the third straight time over two seasons with the help of a two-run homer by Larry Walker, lead­ing the Expos to a 5-1 victory over Doug Drabek and the As­tros on Tuesday night. 
"It's just one of those things, they're just one of the teams I have success against," Hill said. "I feel real comfortable when I go out there. They're a lot of first-ball swingers. The main thing, I just have to re­member to keep them off-bal­ance." 
Hill (1-0) gave up six hits in six innings. Three Montreal pitchers finished with shutout relief. 
"He's very tough," Expos manager Felipe Alou said. "He's always tough here in the Astrodome, we knew that going in. His fastball was live and he had a really good slider." 
Hill was more than tough to Astros manager Terry Collins. 
"Ken Hill is nasty," Collins said. "He threw that 94 miles per hour fastball and he's got a good forkball. He's a good ma­jor league pithcer. If you get him on the ropes, you'd better fmish him because if he gets up he'll get you." 
Drabek, who led the NL in losses with a 9-18 record last season, walked Marquis Gris­som and Mike Lansing in the sixth. After an RBI grounder by Rondell White put the Expos ahead 2-1, Walker homered over the center-field fence. 
"Walking two batters is never good unless you get out of it," Drabek said. "I had trouble with the strike zone in that in­ning. With Walker, we tried to get him out the same way we did the previous time." 
But Drabek's changeup was a little up in the strike zone, and Walker made the Astros pay. 
"The at-bat before, he threw me the same changeup and I popped it up," Walker said. "I didn't try to pull it the next time. It's one I know Doug did not want to throw. He looked upset with himself." 

IN YOUR SUMMER PLANS 
Join our own full-time students, students from other colleges and universities and area professionals who have one thing in common this summer--they're spending part of it in school at John Carroll. Classes are offered --day or night --in three summer sessions that accommodate any schedule. 
SUMMER 1: MAY 16-.JUNE 10 SUMMER II: .JUNE 13-.JULY 15 SUMMER Ill: JULY 18-AUGUST 18 
For more information and an application, 
__ ., 
jors. They ended the year, how­ever, with six straight wins. 
A 25 mph wind blowing to­ward right field dropped the 35-degree temperature down to a wind-chill of 6 degrees. The cold weather kept the ball in the park, a day after six home runs were hit in the Mets' 12-8 win. 
"I really didn't have a prob­lem gripping the ball today. I just went after them, and we put up six runs in the first three innings, my job was easier," Smith said. 
Smith {1-0), traded from At­lanta in November for out­fielder Dave Gallagher, gave up two runs on nine hits. He struck out three and walked two. 
Stinnett and Jeff Kent each had two-run doubles during a five-run third inning. 
"I've never really worried about my hitting," said Stin­nett, a catcher. "It was my de­fense that concerned me." 
Karl Rhodes, who hit three home runs and went 4-for-4 with a walk for the Cubs in the opener, was 2-for-4 with a walk. 
The Cubs are off to their first 0-2 start since 1987. 
"Like I said yesterday, I'm a line-drive hitter. I'm not going for home runs. I know if I can go 3-for-10, I'll be doing great. The other seven times you're a failure," Rhodes said. 


~------~----------------~~~--~-----------------------------­
Wednesday, April 6, 1994 
The Observer • AMERICAN LEAGUE page 19 
Jay rookie Delgado 'dining out' at Sky Dome 
Angels 8, Twins 2 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Watch out for the Angels. Mark Langston and Chili Davis say California could be the sur­prise team in the new stream­lined AL West. 
"I like our lineup," said Langston, who allowed eight hits over 7 2-3 innings and benefited from California's 15­hit attack Tuesday night in the season-opening 8-2 victory over the Minnesota Twins. 
Told manager Buck Rodgers' assessment that Langston's curveball got him through the game, the left-bander said: "I think the eight runs got me through the game. I'll take it every time." 
Davis had a career-high 112 RBis last season. when the An­gels went 71-91. This year, with California hoping to con­tend in the four-team division, he thinks he won't have to go it alone. "Four out of five times, I got up tonight with guys in scoring position," said Davis, who drove in three runs with two singles. 
"We have a real good offen­sive club. And I think we have a better pitching staff than peo­ple think." 
California's second through sixth batters were a combined 9-for-12 with seven RBis and five runs. 

Associated Press 
TORONTO 

Rookie Carlos Delgado is starting to make a habit of dropping into the restaurants inside the SkyDome. 
For the second straight game, Delgado homered off the win­dow of a restaurant at the ball­park, helping the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Chicago White Sox 5-3 Tuesday night. 
Delgado hit one of the longest homers at the stadium in Mon­day's 7-3 victory over Chicago, connecting off the Hard Rock Cafe in right field. He hit one even farther this time, sending a shot off Windows restaurant in right-center. 
"It was one of those swings that when you make contact you don't feel anything in your hands," Delgado said. "It was the same thing (Monday), but this one went, maybe, a bit longer." 
Delgado's solo drive off Alex Fernandez in the second inning was estimated at 445 feet. His homer on opening day off Dennis Cook was measured at 438 feet. 
"The guys on the bench were telling me Fernandez likes to throw hard. I know he's a great pitcher," Delgado said. "But he left a fastball over the plate and I was looking for it." 
Delgado was a power-hitting catcher in the minors, leading the Class A Florida State League in home runs and RBis in 1992 and doing the same in the Double-A Southern League last season. He batted over .300 both years. 
Delgado, 21, started this sea­son in left field for the Blue Jays, who lost Rickey Hender­son to free agency. 
Paul Molitor doubled home the go-ahead run in the sixth inning and Joe Carter homered in the eighth. 
Dave Stewart (1-0) outpitched Alex Fernandez (0-1) for the victory. Last October, Stewart twice beat Fernandez in the AL playoffs, won by the Blue Jays in six games. 
Stewart gave up four hits, in­cluding a two-run homer by Julio Franco, in seven innings. He struck out six and walked five, one of them intentionally. 
Stewart settled down after a first-inning shouting match over the strike zone with home­plate umpire Durwood Merrill. 
"Sometimes you just need to find out what is a strike and what isn't," Stewart said. "Very often you don't come to an agreement until you both decide to disagree." 
Todd Stottlemyre, taking over the closer role because Duane Ward is on the disabled list, pitched a perfect ninth for his first career save. 
"It's different, I'll say that," Stottlemyre said. "The exciting thing about it is every day you come to the park knowing you've got a chance to pitch." 
Fernandez allowed four runs, two of them earned, on four hits in six innings. He struck out three and walked three. 
"I thought the key was their pitching," White Sox manager Gene Lamont said. 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1995-96. All freshmen, sophomores and juniors interested in Graduate Study. Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Wednesday evening, Aprill3, 1994 at 7:00pm in room 131 DeBartolo 
SOPHOmORES 
FRESHmEn 
SEDlOBS JUDIOBS 
..Achieving Your Best Performance in Undergraduate Study.. 
<A workshop using the insights of sport psychology> 
******************** 
This workshop is designed to provide undergraduate students in any discipline with· techniques often used in sport psychology to help you achieve your best academic performance. It will focus on techniques for: 

Enhancing and maintaining concentration How to manage/juggle numerous demands on your time Handling performance anxiety In writing papers, taking tests or making presentations Dealing with academic setbacks Improving confidence In your study strategy Improving your ability to pace yourself In your academic studies Focusing your energy more quickly Maintaining motivation when you're bumt out 
Presented  by:  Dominic 0. Vachon, Ph.D.  
When:  Sunday, April  10, 1994  
1 :15 to  2:30 p.m.  
Where:  Hesburgh Library Lounge  

Sponsored by: University Counseling Center 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
bles point. We did a better job with the fundamentals, like hit­ting the easy shots. We just played better as a team." 
After Wilson lost a straight­set decision at No. 4 singles to tie the match at one-all, the Irish went back on top courtesy of a 6-2, 6-4 win from 23rd­ranked Andy Zurcher. West Virginia then knotted the match back up at two with a 7­6, 7-6 win by Parker over Pun. 
After the Irish picked up an­other victory from Simme at No. 2, sophomore John Jay O'Brien provided the heroics with a 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 win over Stevula. With Stevula leading 4-3 in the final set, O'Brien held serve and then broke Stevula to claim a 5-4 lead. O'Brien then served out the match and clinched the win for the Irish. 
The Irish did not need any heroics against the Hoosiers, as they picked up four singles wins for the 4-2 victory. The two teams decided to play the singles matches first so the Irish could head back to South Bend at a decent hour in the event of a lopsided match. It turned out the Irish did not need the doubles point, as Simme and O'Brien both deliv­ered 6-1, 6-2 blowouts while Sprouse and Pun picked up three-set wins. 
"They had been losing a lot lately, so we had some confi­dence heading into the match," said Simme. "But I think that might have hurt us. We were a little too confident." 
However, the Irish still upped their record to 16-5 with the win, as they prepare for two important weekend matches at home against Miami (Fla) on Saturday and Minnesota on Sunday. 
"Minnesota is a good team," said Pun. "It will be a real im­portant match for the seeding in the NCAA Midwest regional playoffs in May. That will be one of our biggest matches of the year because we always seem to have tough ones with them." 
"We're not where we need to be yet-we need to be on an­other level," stated Simme. "We definitely need to keep getting the doubles point. It will be a deciding factor in a lot of matches against the top teams because I think our singles lineup is good enough to split with anyone." 



Geepers Mimi, you are better looking every year! 
IElniPIP1 
~ 11._~11~ 
We love you! 
KB, KC, KS, KY, CW,&CT 
Cheer up Birthday Girll 
Only one more year! 
love, 
The New 'Naugh Girls 

-----~-------~----­
page 20 
Off-field problems plague Strawberry 
By JOHN NADEL 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Darryl Strawberry's promises of "monster seasons" have scared no one during his three­plus seasons with the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Strawberry, who on Monday admitted to a substance abuse problem and agreed to undergo rehabiliation, has hit just 38 homers and driven in 136 runs for the Dodgers. 
If he never plays for them again -the current desire of owner Peter O'Malley -and the team pays off the remaining $8 million of his $20.25 million, five-year deal, Los Angeles would wind up having paid $532,894 per homer and $148,897 per RBI. 
"It's going to be fun to be back on the field and do the things I've done in the past," Strawberry had said Friday, two days before his disappear­ance. "I've always wondered if I would ever get back to that point, but I'm above that point now." 
By missing Sunday's game, Strawberry did what he did in the past -disrupt his team. That, according to lawyer familiar with the situation, prompted O'Malley to have aides investigate the possibility of Strawberry's release. 
"We will not let this deny us," Dodgers manager Tom Lasorda said. "We have worked hard all spring and no one man is going to stop us. We will have nine guys out there and they are not going to let anything distract them. We're going to win with or without him. No one individ­ual is going to deny us from 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
RecSpq~ is offering Iti team tennis with the deadline being April 7. C!lptams• nteet;, ing for this Will be !lt 5 P·ttt· on 
the sarile date in the JACC Auditorium~ · · · . : 
· Rec:Sports is re~Pff4Jrh1g IH men's 12" S()ftball ~ a16­team double· elirninati9~ tour­nament with the dttadUne being April7: Capta~~ meet­ing for this will be at 5:3.0 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium on the same date; All dorms mayhave one team in th ·_,. urna­ment and off-cam may only haveJhree teamf! (the first three that •. sign~up); You may start submitting~ or re­submitting, teams IJn Wed. 
Mar. 30 at,lQ aJD. Tb~ tour­namentwillbe playe~IQnApril 16 and 17. If you}'; dorm decides not to have :a team please calf O£lr offi l"
6100. ... .·. 
Re rts-wouldlike 
all 

r champj()ns, who .fu1ve 110 et gotten their pic': 
tures ta~en. to come to the 
RecSporUi office on Wednes­
day night, April 6th, between 
7pm;;~P\'Piw These illGlude 
team, doubles and individual 
champion8;''t;natWl%'l{MW .;, 
Ultimate 'season is here. AII"itltimate players please make every effort to contact Tony Leonardo at ?32-7316. Rosters for upC()IJliD$ section­als need to be in by April 6th:~ Practices Wednesdays and Jhursdays from 4:30-7:00. out.; 
-side Stepan. 'fournaments ~~­~ April9-1.0 aP<f16-17,::k~{Ji¥S!Iii1 
reaching our goal of winning a world championship." 
The Dodgers are used to play­ing without Strawberry -back problems limited him to 7 5 games and 10 homers the last two years -but they haven't been successful, going 63-99 in 1992 and 81-81last season. 
Strawberry, 32, continually spoke enthusiastically about the upcoming season through­out spring training, saying he was healthy and baseball would be fun again. 
Now, he has other priorities. 

"That's half the battle, when you admit you have a prob­lem," Detroit's Eric Davis, Strawberry's boyhood friend, said from his hotel room in Boston. ''I'm going to stick with him through thick and thin." 
Davis, a former teammate of Strawberry's with the Dodgers, said he believes Strawberry's main problem is the desire to please too many people. 
"When you do that, you lose sight of who you are and what you're all about," Davis said. "By no means does this make him a bad person or take any­thing from him. As far as I'm concerned, baseball is sec­ondary right now. This is an ongoing problem in our society every day. If Darryl Strawberry wasn't who he is, it wouldn't be any big deal." 
But Strawberry is who he is. And that's someone who's been prominent in sports and recog­nized and put on a pedestal by many since his teen-age years. 
"The fame and the fortune are not what they're all cracked up to be," Davis said. "We've been blessed with an opportunity to do something we've always been able to do." 

The! Observer • SPORTS 
Sc>ftball 
conhnued from page 24 

Kobata struck out eight bat­ters over five innings of work, but was unusually hittable. 
The normally dominating Ko­bata was rocked for seven hits. Both runs were earned as she gave up consecutive singles to Flames Julie Sewell, Terri Tanksely, and Sarah O'Malley in the bottom of the fifth, the last hit scoring both runners. 
"0 ur biggest problem in game two was that we threw them too 'many good pitches," Miller said. "Late in the game they began to time the pitches and that was the difference." 
The Irish batters had a tough time adjusting to the strike zone, according to Miller. "It was also a challenging day be­caus•e of the way the umpires were calling the game," she said. "Mollison did a good job of pitching to the umpires' strike zone, and our hitters continued to have problems adjusting when pitches that are normally balls are called strikes." 
Notre Dame managed a total of six hits over the two games, as compared to 11 for VIC. Keys had two hits in game one and Hayes had a single in both games. Freshman outfielder Elizabeth Perkins, in her first games back after sustaining a jaw injury two weeks ago at In­diana State, had Notre Dame's only extra base hit, with a dou­ble in the second game. 
Weather permitting, the Notne Dame will get a chance to work on their hitting ·today at Valparaiso. The Irish defeated the Crusaders 9-2 March 19 in the Sycamore Clas~ic at Indiana State. 
"They are a decent team," Miller says of today's match­up. "If we go in ready to play, we shouldn't have any prob­lems. But in bad conditions you never know what kind of team is going to show up." 
"You were just 1 3 and starting teenage years... " 
Happy 20th 13•irthday 
Ryan! 

Love, Mom, Dad, & Mary 
r---------------------~ 
l S~"?~ 
I I 
®ITS. (& ll ®ITS. illWJ!ill ~ I 
JPJL~ 

: ll mJ IL,~ \W£I0IK :sATURDAY, APRIL 9, 11:00 AM 
I AT STEPAN CENTl~R ROAD 
T-81URTS TO ALL FDiiSHERS
I 

REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS
I 

$3.00 IN ADVANCE $5.00 DAY OF RACE
I 

STUDENT AND STAFF JDIVISIONS
I 

1 ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT ~\ I ©mill.IT~'rr~ ITTI~ ~~ ), I SPONSORED BY I R--~ ~·.. L---------------------~ 

The Observer/John Bingham Senior first baseman Stephanie Pinter's diving catch of a bunt in the bottom of the eighth sealed Notre Dame's 5-3 victory over UIC. 

Notre Dame Students 
the Cmmcil on International Educariooal Exchange offers you the o"Wlrnmity of a lifetime. JUST CAlL (212) 661-1414 EXT. 1426 NOW for your FREE brochure rn how to work legally in Britain, Ireland, France, Gennany, Costa Rica, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia 
CIEE provides the work authorizarirn, a IJUgTliil handlxxi, flight discounts, alocal resource center, employer leads, and acromm<Xiatirn q>tions all for just $1ro. Do it for asununer or after graduarirn or even while studying abrood. 
See adiffcrent culture fr001 the inside while mhancing yoor resume, or do it~ foc fun! 

VALPARAISO UNIVERSITY 
presents 
...... 


BOB DYLAN 
.-·-. 

SATURDAY • APRIL 16 8:00PM VALPARAISO UNIVERSITY ATHLETICS-RECREATION CENTER 
Tickets for this concert are on sale now and can be purchased through Ticket-Master by calling 
(312) 559-1212 in Illinois and (219) 272-7979 i~ Indiana. Tickets will also be sold at the Valparaiso University Ticket Office (219) 464-5233 at prices of $22, $19 and $16. 
Valparaiso, IN (NW Corner of Indiana • 50 Minutes East Of Chicago) 



Wednesday, April 6, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 

Baseball 
continued from page 24 
individual members of the Irish team. Junior pitchers Craig Allen, who turned in his best performance since the spring break trip in the second game, and Rich Sauget, who helped keep the first game under con­trol, both were positives for the inexperienced Irish pitching staff. Freshmen Larry Mohs and Gregg Henebry also turned in notable performances. 
"Mohs and Henebry both pitched great," said Murphy. "Our defense let us down. It's a tough time for us to play such a good team. Graves is the tough­est pitcher we've seen in a long while. It's disappointing we didn't play with more intensity, but we're not about to make excuses." 
On the other side of the plate, junior Paul Failla (3-for-4, 2 RBI, 1 HR), sophomore Mark Mapes (4-for-11, 2 2B, 4 RBI) and senior Matt Haas (4-for-10, 1 run) provided the limited of­fensive sparks for the Irish in the series. 
The Hurricanes defmitely had the edge heading into the final game of the series and Miami turned that momentum into a 4-2 victory with strong perfor­mances from three of their pitchers. 
Kenny Henderson (3-2) strug­gled early, but went 5 innings for the win giving up five hits and two runs while striking out 
four and walking three. Middle reliever Jay Tessmer (0 BB, 4 K) was perfect in his two innings on the mound 


while major Sauget league prospect Danny Graves (3 hits, 0 BB, 4 K) also held the Irish scoreless in two innings. 
The Irish opened strong in the first inning, looking like they had Henderson on the ropes. 
Second baseman Greg Layson led off the bottom half of the first with a hard single past a diving Alex Cora at third. After Henderson walked Scott Soll­man and Mapes to load the bases, Cora misplayed Robbie Kent's two-out grounder and Layson trotted home. 
nbelievable CheckingOff The round. 
With three runs in the second inning, Miami scored all the runs its pitchers would need in the contest. 
After third baseman Haas committed his second error in as many innings on what could have been an inning-ending double play ball, Irish starter Henebry (1-1) was left with a one-out, two-on situation with powerful freshman Walter Owens at the plate. 
Owens rocketed one of Hene­bry's pitches to right field. The ball bounced off the wall and Cora easily scored. Second baseman Wicho Hernandez brought Matt Erwin home with an run-scoring groundout, and Mike Metcalfe followed with a triple to score Owens and give the Miami a 3-1 lead. 
In the third, the Irish nar­rowed the gap to 3-2 when Mapes singled in Haas. 
Mohs came on in relief in the fifth inning, inheriting a bases loaded, no-out situation. The 6'7" freshman managed to get three tough outs to hold the Mi­ami lead at 3-2. 
Mohs may have quelled the fire started by Miami, but the Irish hitters could not light up any of the Hurricane pitchers. 
The sidearming Tessmer shut out the Irish in the sixth and seventh innings, thereby increasing his scoreless inning streak to 33. In addition to his 
0.00 ERA, the senior walk-on has now mowed down 37 bat­ters in those 33 innings. 
With the wind blowing strongly towards right field, the first game of the series turned into a slugfest and Miami came away with a 19-7 victory. 
Seven players hit homeruns in the game, three by the Canes in the second inning. 
Miami opened up the scoring with six runs in the second in­ning as the Hurricane batters gave the dimensions of the park three rounds of approval with a trio of roundtrippers in the inning. 
The Irish made a dent in the Hurricane's six-run lead in the top of the third on Paul Failla's two-run home run. 
Miami increased its lead to 13-2 in the top of the fourth in­ning as Buxbaum scored on a Texas-league single by Cora, and Erwin brought two more runs home with a looper to short center which neither Failla or Sollmann could reach. 
One highlight for the Irish in 


Norwest's Unbelievable Free Checking will make a believer out of you. It's 100% free. You don't need a minimum balance. You don't pay monthly service charges. Your first order of200 checks is free. And about those sneaky little hidden charges? There are none. Plus, only Norwest gives you a service that lets you do your banking by phone any time of the day or night. And free access to Instant Cash machines in Indiana and Ohio. So come in today and open your Unbelievable Free Checking account. Only Norwest could take an idea this big and make it fly. 
Come to expect the best. 
....... 
••••• 
NORWEST BANKS ••, ••® 
South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
237-3300 

Member FDIC© 1994 Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. 
the one-sided game was the pitching of junior rookie Sauget. The righthander went four in­-nings giving up two runs on four hits while striking out three and walking two. 
Not ready to roll over and play dead, the Irish responded in the bottom of the inning with two runs. Failla singled and Ryan Topham sent a towering drive over the right field fence. 
The Irish put together a two­
out rally in the bottom of the 
sixth as they loaded the bases 
on back-to-hack singles by 
Layson and Sollmann and a 
pair of walks to Haas and 
Mapes, but one run is all they 
would push across. 
After the slugfest in the first 
half of Saturday's double­
header, the teams came out for 
a 5-2 nailbiter in the nightcap. 
The Hurricanes got on the 
board flrst with a single run in 
the fourth inning when 
Thompson homered. 
Notre Dame took its frrst lead 
of the day with two runs in the 
sixth inning. Failla tripled with 
one out and then came home on 
Mapes' RBI double. The go­
ahead run came on Mike Am­
rhein's single to bring Mapes 
across the plate. 
Miami tied things up at 2-2 in 
the top of the eighth when 
Buxbaum singled off reliever 
A.J. Jones to score Metcalfe, but the big blow came with two outs in the top of the ninth . 
With bases loaded, Metcalfe sent a towering drive into right field. Topham moved under­neath it and appeared to catch it when the ball popped out of his glove. The error cleared the bases, giving the Canes a three­run lead which was all that reliever Graves needed. 
Illinois next Eck guest 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior SportS Writer 
Frank Eck should've envi­sioned a domed stadium. 
The Irish baseball team got a little reminder that even though they have a brand new stadium it is still located in South Bend last night as a game with Bowling Green was snowed out. 
Notre Dame was leading 3­0 in the second inning when the game was postponed and then eventually canceled due to the steady April snow shower. 
In the flrst inning, the Irish scored two runs on Paul Failla's no-out double to bring Greg Layson and Matt Haas across the plate. Failla then stole third and scored when catcher Don Schone's throw bounced into left fleld. 
That's all anyone would get as the game was canceled a half inning later. 
The Irish will try their luck again tomorrow as the Fighting Illini come to town for a 7 p.m. game. 
Illinois (13-9) spoiled Notre Dame's home opener last year with a 11-4 victory and the Illini are looking to win another this year . 
Offensively, the Illini have been quite productive this year. Illinois is averaging 12.7 runs per game in the last 14 games for a team batting average of .324. Senior short­stop Dave Wohlwend is hitting .388 with 33 hits, 32 runs and nine stolen bases and junior rightflelder Tom Sinak boasts 
a .407 batting average with four homeruns and 26 runs batted in. 




.. 
SMC softball off to faLSt start 
By KARA MASUCCI 
Sporn Writer 
The 17-3 Saint Mary's softball team takes on Saint Francis College in Fort Wayne, Indiana looking to preserve their ten game winning streak. 
According to coach Don Cromer, this year's team is very strong both offensively and defensively. 
"We've been hitting and pitching real well. Those are the key elements of the game and we've got to keep them up," stated Cromer. 
This afternoon's game is the first matchup since the Easter weekend. Despite the layoff, the 
Injuries mar opener 
By SHARON THEIMER 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
A hydraulic lift platform top­pled onto a tent where a radio station was holding a tailgate party for Tuesday's Milwaukee Brewers opening game, injur­ing four people. 
Investigators suspected that wind gusts or revelers caused the platform to fall over. The incident occurred in the park­ing lot of County Stadium about an hour before the Brewers played the Oakland Athletics in an afternoon game. 
One woman was hospitalized in satisfactory condition and three others were treated at the scene, authorities said. 
The injured were among about 50 people attending a tailgate party in the tent spon­
r---------------------~ 
Happy Birthday 
~rmwR 
Nine or Nineteen, You're Number ONE with Us! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Brian, & Tommy 

CATERING SHIFT SIGN UPS FOR GRADUATION 

Belles feel that they are ready for victory over the Crusaders. 
"We were supposed to prac­tice over break on our own, and yesterday we got together as a team," said sophomore pitcher Maria Vogel. 
"The practice went well which will make this victory possible. Everyone has been hitting, it has been a real team effort," added Vogel. 
Teamwork is what has helped the team win the past ten games, according to fresh­man pitcher Lori Langenderfer. 
"As a freshman coming onto the team, I was nervous. But, the girls are really nice and in­clude everyone in all activities," 
sored by Milwaukee radio sta­tion WQFM, Sgt. David Iushe­witz said. 
The hydraulic lift platform was set up behind the tent and was holding a WQFM banner with balloons attached to it. The lift raises the 3-foot-by-5­foot platform 30 feet. The plat­form weighed between 1,000 and 1,500 pounds. 
A band was playing when the platform fell on the tent, caus­ing it to collapse, said Bob Uecke of Karl's Garden & Rental Center in Milwaukee, which rented the tent to WQFM. 
"It kind of collapsed right into the tent," said Chris McCaules of Badger Sound & Lighting Company, who was running the band's sound system when the platform landed several feet to his left. 
stated Langenderfer. "We've played well because we play as a team. Everyone's hitting has gone well, and the pitching has been constant." 
Since the pitching staff is strong, Cromer is not sure who will start in today's game. 
"Whoever is the strongest tomorrow and feels most com­fortable at the plate is who I'll put in. We have four fine pitch­ers," stated Cromer. 
According to senior Jane Murphy, St. Francis will be a tough team to beat, but the Belles can handle the heat. 
"Saint Frances is in the Na­tion Association of Intercolle­giate Athletics (NAIA), which means that they are roughly a division two team. However, they are a good team and our defense has to be strong," said Murphy. 
"We've been hitting well as a team. We work on our swing at practice, and we are all pretty disciplined hitters. If our pitch­ing stays strong and our hitting stays constant, we will do fine," added Murphy. 

Are you independent and full of life? 
lt1 Are you committed to a simple lifestyle? 
If you are, call Sr. Margaret Hoffelder (219-422-6675) to dream together about how your life and ours might join in service to the world's poor and disenfranchised. 
Tb.l2.6 Of 6 T JO6b.PlJ Of T lJb. T lJIR.D 012.Db.l2. Of 6 T fi2.ANCI6 

SCREAMIN', WAlLIN', AND FAST FINGERS ... 
1riHrlE (C((J)JLJLIECGIIATIE JA~~ IFIE§TIIVAJ1~~~ 
COMING APRIL 8TH AND 9TH TO STEPAN CENTER... 
I~JRIIIQ)A Y & §A1r1UIR\ID>AY NIICGIHI1r = 7'~~«D lP'JMI ~~A1r1UJRID> A Y AWTIE1R\N (Q) (Q)N = 11 ~ «D«D 1P'M 

lriCKET PRICES: 
IFRIDAY NIGHT ~IATURDAY AFTERNOON ~IATURDAY NIGHT J~LL SESSION PASS 
REGULAR ND/SMC/HC ADMISSION STUDENTS 
810 84 85 82 88 83 815 85 


Wednesday, April 6, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SPELUNKER 

CI-\EER UP.' 
DID l 1El\.. '(O\J l 'S~W 
Math phobic's nightmare 
A ROBIN 
'iES~Uf>..'i? 
OF INTEREST 

DAVE KELLEIT
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CROSSWORD 
27 Wine casks 45 Brutality 28 Cleopatra biter 48 Ghostly 
ACROSS 
1 Give tit for tat 31 The A in "CAT 52 What's my line: 5 Pillow covers scan" #310 Bunco 
32 Cartoonist Peter 54 First name in
1411 debuted in Cairo, Dec. 24, 
33 Utah ski center tash!on. 1871 34 Wh t's my line: 55 ~ref1x With 
# f1gure or form 
2 a15 Video screen 56 G.P.A., in slang dot 37 Nautical 

57"Notmy-"
1&So long direction 17 What's my line: 38 Danza of 
58 Intelligence #1 59 Mr. Culbertson 
"Who's the 20Guard Boss?" 
and others 
21 They make 39 Refine, as colorful 53-Down 
DOWN

displays 40 Old Ford model 
22 Transcending 1 Easy marks 
41 Dickey fastener 

23 Have trouble on 2Telegraph
42 Thinks out loud 

the ice 3 Mideast gulf
43 Level

24Gas, in 4 Rural-themed 
Greenwich 44 Amatory writing opera 
5 Crystalline gemstone &Stowaway
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

j
7 Leaf angle 8 One of Alcott's Little Women 
j
9 Boy Scout tie 26 "Dead" 42 Danish city 48Comics10 Reserved 
publisher Lee 
43 Bit of color 49 Actor Julia 11 Musical with the 27 Vogue 
song "Memory" 28 Green-card 44Certain applicant tournaments 5o"Go,-!"
12-smasher 29 Hackneyed 45 Difficult position 51 Cleaning
13 Viking touchdown site 30 Cords, e.g. 46 Confederate agents 11 Villa d'Este 32 Love, in 47 Philosophical 53 Ferriferous rock locale Le Havre 19 Speaker at 33 Signature event Cooperstown 35 Goes for 
Get answers to any three clues 
23 Cheerful 36 Phase 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
24 Of the Vatican 41 Acapulco 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
25 Glorify assent 




... 
GET TO KNOW THE LAW BEFORE THE LAW GETS TO KNOW YOU! If you plan on hosting a party off-campus, or even attending an off-campus event where alcohol is served, there are some very important things you need to know. 
Irish out of luck on St. Patrick's Day 
Recent headlines remind us all that we have legal responsibilities when consuming alcohoL 
For a hand-out on applicable Indiana laws, and tips on how to host a responsible party, please stop by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, Mezzanine Level of LaFortune Student Center. 




.. SPORTS 
Wednesday, April 6, 1994 
Tennis rolls on the road 


Irish hitters 'blown' away 
By MEGAN McGRATH Spons Writer 

The wind was blowing out at Wrigley Field, turning the Cubs' home opener Monday into a 

~-------,home run fest. That same wind was gusting up to 35 miles per hour at the University of Illinois-Chicago softball diamond, but these gusts held the ball down as pitching dominated Notre Dame's double-header with 
'------.i/2---' the Flames. The Irish man-Keys aged a split with regionally-
ranked UIC, taking the first game 4-3 in extra innings, but falling 2-0 in the nightcap. 
"It was a challenging day because of the windy conditions," coach Liz Miller said. "Sara Hayes drove two balls that would have been out of any ballpark on any other day, but the wind today turned them into pop-ups. 
"These were easily the worst conditions we've played in. I felt lucky to get out of there with one win." 
But if Notre Dame (18-13) thought the condi­tions were bad Monday, the weather for today's four o'clock doubleheader at Valparaiso threat­ens to be even worse. With a projected high of just 29 degrees, Miller doubted the games would be played. 
Despite being robbed by Mother Nature, Hayes was able to be the Irish hero in game one. With the score knotted at three after seven innings, the international tie-breaker 
l was employed to speed the game along. Each team began the inning with a runner on
t second. After junior base-runner Andy Keys was advanced to third on junior Liz Goetz's sacrifice bunt, Hayes hit a sharp single to bring Keys home and give the Irish their seventh straight victory. The Irish relied on tough defensive play in the home half of the eighth inning to make the lead stand up. Senior first baseman Steph Pinter made a diving catch of a bunt attempt for the first out, and Goetz ended the game with a diving catch of her own in left field. Freshman Joy Battersby went seven innings to pick up her ninth win. Terri Kobata pitched the eighth inning and earned her first save. The Flames literally had Destiny on their side in the second game. In a battle of staff aces, UIC's Destiny Mollison held the Irish to just two hits over six innings as she shut-out Notre Dame in a game shortened because of darkness. 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Associate Sports Editor 
The 16th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team picked up two more road wins this weekend, besting West Virginia in a 4-3 squeaker on Saturday before heading to Bloomington for a 4-2 win over Indiana on Monday. 
The Irish anticipated a tough match with the Mountaineers, and the ele­ments and unsatisfactory court condi­tions made earning their 15th win of the season a bit tougher. "It was a tough place to play," noted sophomore Jason Pun. "I didn't like the courts. But we expected it would be a touch match going in." 
The Irish were able to come away with the win thanks to two doubles wins. The doubles play had faltered last weekend, but has improved after some tinkering in practice last week. "We won the doubles point. and that made a big difference," said Pun. "The week before that's all we worked on in prac­tice. We didn't have anything to lose, and coach got on us a little bit so that helped." 
The Irish's two doubles wins came at the No. 1 and No. 3 doubles slots, as Andy Zurcher and Todd Wilson beat David Critchley and Collin Parker 8-5, and Allan Lopez and Ryan Simme best­ed Rod Stevula and Mark Walsh 8-6. 
"It was a tight match," said Simme. "I think we were lucky to just get the dou­
see TENNIS I page 19 

The Observer/John Bingham Junior shortstop Paul Failla had a good weekend at the plate for the Irish, including a home run in Notre Dame's 19-7 loss in game one against No. 4 Miami. 
Hurricanes take three at Eck 
By JENNY MARTEN and DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writers 
This time there. would be no upsets. 
Although the Notre Dame baseball team has had much succ~ss against the powerhouse Miami Hurricanes in. the past_. the In~h just were not ready for the 4th-ranked Hurncanes this early m the season and got swept in the three-game series. 
It was the first time the Irish had lost three straight games since mid-March of last year when Kentucky swept Notre Dame in a three-game series. 
Miami, with a 27-5 record, has already played twice as many games as the Irish (8-7) and been pra~ticing outside for t~ce as long, and the extra experience showed m the weekend sene.s. 
Like the Irish, the Hurricanes have several freshmen m key positions, but their freshmen have already adjusted to collegiate baseball with the added games. 
Freshman J.D. Arteaga started on the mound in Miami's 5-2 win in Saturday's second game and gave up two runs and six hits in 5.2 innings of work. Freshman Alex Cora, third baseman a~d brother of White Sox second baseman Joey Cora, went 7-for-14 m the series with five runs scored. 
Meanwhile, the younger members of the Irish squad are just starting to get comfortable. That is why Pat Murphy schedules teams like Miami at this point in the year. 
"I like having the opportunity to play a team like Miami this early in the season. It gives us a chance to test our team and fmd out where we stand. We got some answers-positive answers. And L.;..:4\:~.:.......--....._.:..........:.....:............-___Th_e_o_b_se_rv_er/..-.Jo-h-ns-in-g-ha-'m that will help us the rest of the year," said Murphy. G L rd b t 
The three losses overshadow several solid performances from Senior second baseman reg ayson was so 1 • u 
the rest of the Irish defense showed its lack of out­
door practice in being swept by the Hurricanes. 






