

Friday, January 14, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 68 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
NATO in search of a ·new-vision 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Associate News Ediwr 
Although post-Cold War events have been complex and confusing, it is critical for policy makers to continue to adapt to change while waiting for the "New World Order" to take a more definite shape. 
• see KOHL, page 4 
"It's a very delicate and very critical period," according to government professor Janie Leatherman. "Western leaders need to tread very lightly." 
While in the past, NATO's pri­mary mission revolved around protecting Western Europe from the conventional threat posed by the Warsaw Pact, recently, leaders have been left without a purpose. Worse, they have not been successful in redefining their mission, she said. 
"The core problem is a lack of comprehensive vision among Western European leaders about post-Cold War security," she said. 'There is no longer a base premise from which lead­ers can derive judgments." 
The problem surfaced most obviously during Clinton's visit to Prague to meet with Eastern European leaders, she said. Clinton was unprepared to offer full NATO memberships to those countries because he and his policy makers are unsure about the negative implications such memberships could hold. 
"In what Clinton is doing right now, there is really no decision at all," according to government professor James McAdams. "He's trying to ap­pease everyone while offending no one." 
The fact that Clinton would give no set requirements for a full membership in the organi­zation underscores that it has little place for the emerging Eastern European countries until a reason for Eastern European membership is de­termined, Leatherman said. The lack of reason goes along with the lack of vision. 
The first step 
An invitation extended to some former communist countries and neutral countries so as to establish tighter bilateral relationships with NATO. 
What is being offered 
NATO offers training joint military exercises and participation In peace operations authorized by the UN. 
doesn't seem to have policy-makers who can dynam­ically respond to problems in the international scene," she said. "This problem is played out all across Europe." 
McAdams believes that the "new vision" will be a long time in coming. Until then, the American foreign policy should try not to damage itself in the future by holding back in the present. 
"There is no clear vision of the post-Cold War era," 


Musicians to perform first concert of new semester 
By CORRINE DORAN 
News Writer 
The campus will hear the sound of music for the first 
time this semes­ter when Associate Professor of Music Carolyn Plummer and Professor of Music William Cerny give a 


faculty concert Carolynthis weekend. 
Plummer

The program, which will be held at 2 p.m. on Sunday in the Suite Museum's Annenberg Auditorium, con­tains music chosen for its romanticism, according to Plummer. 
"I was drawn to it emotional­ly myself," said Plummer. "It's a really emotional program. What I was aiming for in this was to show specific qualities of the violin, to touch on the ten­der sweet emotions." 
The program will feature Plummer on the violin and Cerny as pianist. The two will play LaFolia by Corelli and Kreisler, Romance in F Minor by Dvorak, Rondo by Mozart and Kreisler and Sonata in F Major by Mendelssohn. 
Plummer, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1989, performed most recently in Ernen, Switzerland at the International Musikdorf Masterclasses. She is currently preparing for the Notre Dame Spring Trio Tour that performs throughout the midwest. 
see CONCERT I page 4 
United States Belgium Canada Netherlands Iceland Luxembourg Portugal Germany Spain Denmark Italy Norway France Greece United Kingdom Turkey 

The objective 
To widen and intensify cooperation 
The benefits 
The countries who participate in the partnership for peace will be invited to send their permanent representatives to the NATO headquarters and to a separate coordinating cell which wlll be created in Mons, Belgium: 
has changed so much, s un­realistic to expect anyone to have one. I think it would be a little scary if someone did." 
Even without a clear vision, Clinton and other leaders must deal with current problems and begin to install "security mech­anisms" to insure that future conflicts may be averted. 
Early warning to flare-ups in ethnic and regional conflict are key to a new security arrange-
see NATO I page 4 




Clinton-Yeltsin summit addresses reform issues 
ByNANCYBENAC 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Joined in a historic quest to expand democracy, President Clinton and Boris Yeltsin pledged Thursday to press ahead with reforms that will "make life better'' for· restive Russians. The two also were ready to stop aiming n'clear missiles at each other's coun­tries. 
In hours of Kremlin talk and over dinner at Yeltsin's country dacha, the two leaders agreed that Russia could not afford to backpedal on painful economic reforms despite mounting pub­lic dissatisfaction. 
The crowds loved Clinton in Moscow, surging to get close enough for a glimpse or even a handshake, cheering when he waved his fur hat in the chilly air. 
"We'll work together," Clinton assured stolid Muscovites lined up for bread in a downtown bakery. "All these folks working hard need to know that in the end they will be rewarded." 
"I wish you success," one woman replied. 
Welcoming Clinton to the opulent Grand Palace at the Kremlin, Yeltsin predicted the three-day summit would pro­duce "profound," "practical" and "sweeping" results. Privately, he assured Clinton "there is no turning back" from the drive for free-market reforms, U.S. officials reported. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said the Americans came away reassured that Russian leaders were "redou­bling their efforts to move for­ward with the reform process," undeterred by the strong show­ing of anti-reform forces in recent parliamentary elections. 
Clinton brought no new gift basket of American aid for his third face-to-face meeting with Yeltsin in nine months, but he promised greater effort to deliver fast and effective assis­tance already in the pipeline in an effort to cushion the eco­nomic pain for ordinary Russians. 
"More attention has to be paid to easing some of the hardships that we've heard about," said Treasury. Secretary Lloyd Bentsen. 
Asked if he wanted more U.S. aid, Yeltsin said, "Not more than was promised already." 
During an impromptu side tour through downtown shops and kiosks, Clinton told Muscovites that he and Yeltsin were "talking about how we can work together to make life better for the working people of your country." 
"The whole conversation was about how our work together can help change the lives of ordinary Russian people for the better," he said. 

As part of his effort to mobi­lize broader support for free­market reforms, Clinton brought together influential Russians from a variety of fields and political backgrounds for an evening reception at the residence of the U.S. am­bassador. 
"As I look around this room at the faces of tomorrow's Russia, people from different political parties ... people who are in private enterprises, I say to you: There is lots of room for difference of opinion," Clinton told the group. 
He added that while he had traveled to Moscow as a sup­porter of democratic change, "In the end, you will have to decide your future. American support can certainly not make all the difference, and American direction is unwar­ranted." 
Deliberately omitted from the guest list was ultranationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky, a leader ofYeltsin's foes. 



Repositories of human knowledge 
Students endure long lines and crowds, yesterday, at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 


~----------------------­
i 
l 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Gun Control: Just Another Sn1okescreen 

Long ago, the British blamed crime and growing social unrest on gin. In 1736, Parliament passed a gin-control act. Crime was not stopped, but America tried the same thing in 1919 with Prohibition. The experiment was so suc­cessful that Prohibition Kevin Hardman was repelled in 1933. Managing Editor 
From gin control to gun control...and our streets are as violent as ever. 
The belief that gun control will have 
an effect on crime is a myth. Statistics overwhelmingly contradict the gun-control argument. It has yet to be demonstrated that waiting periods and bans reduce crime. The cities and states with the most stringent gun-control laws have the most widespread crime. 
Still the well meaning political machine keeps on rolling. President Clinton, in response to the recent slaughter on the New York train, has called for a law to limit gun clips to ten bullets. The psychotic, racist, murderer goes unmen­tioned by President Clinton, he simply con­demns the gun. He additionally calls for nation­wide licensing of all gun owners. Unfortunately, our president does not realize that criminals do not obey the law. Any laws enacted to control guns will not defer criminals who commit crime, they will find their guns. These laws will only restrict law abiding gun owners. 
It is much easier for politicians to blame guns. They deceive the public into believing that ban­ning certain weapons or limiting their bullet capacity will make our world a safer place; as i a maniac in the midst of gunning down innocent people will stop at ten bullets to stay legal. 
Controlling guns in America is as fruitless as controlling gin in Britain. Yet the politicians continue to fabricate magical solutions that divert our attention from the difficult problems, problems that require more courage to con­front. 
Crime is not a national disease. It festers in our homes and communities. We cannot solve an unscientific problem with a scientific solu­tion. Crime is not a virus that can be vaccinat­ed nor is crime a broken limb that will heal in 6-8 weeks. Likewise, gun-control is not a mysti­cal serum the can be injected into the arm o America. Crime is learned. It is learned in our homes, our schools, and on our streets. It is our problem and ours to solve 
The gun-control debate is a smoke screen to avoid tougher problems: our judicial system is crumbling, criminals are released only to com­mit more crime, our prisons are overflowing, the family unit is nearing extinction, drugs are altering our minds, and indifference to human life and spiritual decay perpetuate our society. 
Washington needs to stop misleading the peo­ple with easy solutions and face the public with the grim reality; it will take more then a ten bullet clip to stop mounting crime. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Production News Bridgette Farrell John Lucas Kira Hutchinson David Clairmont Accent Sports Matt Carbone Jason Kelly Bevin Kovalik Graphics Lab Tech Brendan Regan Kyke Kusek Etc.. 

The Observer • INSIDE Friday, January 14, 1994 

DATA GLANCE 

Clown, elephant trainer killed 
LAKELAND, Fla 
A train carrying Ringling Bros. circus performers and animals derailed Thursday at a crossing, killing an elephant trainer and a clown. Fourteen people were injured. As rescue crews worked on the wreck, a news helicopter covering the derailment crashed a half-mile away in a ballfield next to a junior high school, injuring the pilot and a photographer. Sixteen cars jumped the tracks shortly after 9 a.m. as the train with 53 cars and three locomotives traveled across Florida from St. Petersburg to Orlando, where the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey circus was to open Friday night. "The show always goes on. I suspect we will be late, but the show always goes on," said David Cohen, the circus man­ager an~ a passenger on the train. Theodore Svertesky, 39, of Bndgeport, Conn., was killed in a housing car, Polk County sheriff's Maj. Grady Judd said. He had been man­ager of an elephant farm in Florida since 1985. Ceslee Conkling, 28, of Fort Worth, Texas, was found dead in another car. She had been with Ringling since graduating from a Florida clown college in 1991. Fourteen circus workers were treated at a hospital and released. None of the 25 children on board was hurt. Cars that jumped the tracks carried staff, performers and equipment, said cir­cus spokesman Rodney Huey from his office in Vienna, Va. There were 50 elephants, lions, bears and horses on board, none in the derailed cars. "It was just people screaming; people hollering for help," said Freddie Johnson, who works at nearby motorcycle shop and raced to help. "I just started kicking doors in. I was able to get a few of them out." The cause of the derailment in heavy fog wasn't immediately known. The National Transportation Safety Board sent an investigation team. "We have absolutely no idea what caused the accident. We're not sure of anything right now," Judd said. "The animals are all secure and they've all been fed. They're all in good shape." · 
Texas district restricts school enrollment 
LAJOYA, Texas 
The school board in this border town has moved to stem the influx of students who come into the district just to attend school, many of them from Mexico. School officials described the measure approved 6-1 Wednesday as a cry for financial help from a district where enroll­!flen~ has tripled i~ the last decade. Advocates for illegal Immigrants and migrant workers are studying the policy to determine whether it places an unfair burden on stu­dents to prove they have a good reason for living away from their parents. "The bottom line is they will restrict the entry into the educational process, and I think that's the worse thing you can do," said Rogelio Nunez, execu­tive director of Proyecto Libertad, an immigration rights group. Carmen Rumbaut, staff attorney for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said Thursday that a court challenge was likely. The debate is of great interest to other U.S.-Mexico border districts fac­ing problems similar to those of La Joya, a rural town of 3,000 people about 100 miles from the Gulf of Mexico. The sprawling school district covers 226 square miles and has 12,300 students, 99 percent of them Hispanic. Some 5,000 are the children of migrant farm workers. La Joya's new policy is aimed at students residing with someone other than their parent or legal guardian. Migrant farm workers often send their children to live with a relative or friend who isn't their legal guardian. Administrators will be able to question a student to de­termine whether he or she actually lives in the district, or for those students not living with their parents, whether they have a reason to be in La Joya other than attending school. Those turned away will have a three-step appeal process, or they can remain in La Joya schools if they pay tuition, said Jesus Ramirez, the school board attorney who wrote the policy. 
INDIANA Weather 
Friday, Jan. 14 Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 14. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
305 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V.a Assoctated Pf9BS 
Half ofAmericans have mental illness 
CHICAGO 
Almost half of Americans experience mental ill­ness at some time in their lives, and almost one-third are afflicted in any one year, according to the most com­prehensive U.S. mental health survey in a decade. The study found mental illness more common than re­searchers had previously found. The findings point to a need to learn why more people don't seek help, the au­th~rs said. "It shouldn't be scary to say half the popu­latiOn has suffered from some mental disorder. That's part of life," said the lead researcher, Ronald Kessler a sociology professor at the University of Michigan at ~n Arbor. The study involved face-to-face interviews with 8,098 people ages 15 to 54 nationwide between September 1990 and February 1992. The findings are published in January's issue of the Archives of General Psychiatry. The researchers looked for 14 of the most common mental illnesses. Forty-eight percent of re­spondents had suffered from at least one disorder at some time during their lives, and 29.5 percent had been afflicted within the previous 12 months, researchers said. Results of the federally funded study don't change previ­ous estimates that only 3 percent to 5 percent of Americans are in serious need of psychiatric help at any given time, Kessler said. Many mental disorders are mild, and people get over them without help, he said. But it made an important new discovery: 79 percent of cases of mental illness are concentrated in a small proportion of people -14 percent of the population -with multiple psychiatric problems. 
Farmers end blockade of grain elevators 
SHELBY, Mont. Dozens of farmers ended their blockade of grain ele­vators Thursday, saying they accomplished their goal of drawing attention to concerns about Canadian wheat being trucked into the United States. Trucks blocking entry to the Peavey Co. elevator gradually dispersed in the afternoon when an official with the grain-buying company agreed to meet with protesting farmers. Representatives of Montana's congressional delegation also planned to talk with farmers. "We're just trying to get a better price for our grain and to prevent the Canadian grain from being dumped on the American market," said Hank Zell, who organized the protest. "We'd like to make the city folks and the other people in the country realize that we're the ones that raise the food and that we're getting the short end of the stick." 
Chris Weirup 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  48  43  Dallas  63  44  Minneapolis 03 -06  
Baltimore 42  29  Denver  51  25  New Orleans 48 42  
Boston Chicago  37 22  28 13  Los Angeles 84 52 Miami 82 64  New York 40 31 Philadelphia 41 36  
Columbus 34  33  

Friday, January 14, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 

Yeltsin: Refortns to continue 
Russian leader promises to ignore pressures 
By NANCY BENAC 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Joined in a historic quest to expand democracy, President Clinton and Boris Yeltsin pledged Thursday to press ahead with reforms that will "make life better" for restive Russians. The two also were ready to stop aiming nuclear missiles at each other's coun­tries. 
In hours of Kremlin talk and over dinner at Yeltsin's country dacha, the two leaders agreed that Russia could not afford to backpedal on painful economic reforms despite mounting pub­lic dissatisfaction. 
The crowds loved Clinton in Moscow, surging to get close enough for a glimpse or even a handshake, cheering when he waved his fur hat in the chilly air. 
"We'll work together," Clinton assured stolid Muscovites lined up for bread in a downtown bakery. "All these folks working hard need to know that in the end they will be rewarded." 
"I wish you success," one woman replied. 
Welcoming Clinton to the opulent Grand Palace at the Kremlin, Yeltsin predicted the three-day summit would pro­duce "profound," "practical" and "sweeping" results. Privately, he assured Clinton "there is no turning back" from the drive for free-market reforms, U.S. officials reported. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said the Americans came away reassured that Russian leaders were "redou­bling their efforts to move for­ward with the reform process," undeterred by the strong show­ing of anti-reform forces in recent parliamentary elections. 
Clinton brought no new gift basket of American aid for his third face-to-face meeting with Yeltsin in nine months, but he promised greater effort to deliver fast and effective assis­tance already in the pipeline in an effort to cushion the eco­nomic pain for ordinary Russians. 
"More attention has to be paid to easing some of the hardships that we've heard 
about," said Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen. 
Asked if he wanted more U.S. aid, Yeltsin said, "Not more than was promised already." 
During an impromptu side tour through downtown shops and kiosks, Clinton told Muscovites that he and Yeltsin were "talking about how we can work together to make life better for the working people of your country." 
"The whole conversation was about how our work together can help change the lives of ordinary Russian people for the better," he said. 
As part of his effort to mobi­lize broader support for free­market reforms, Clinton brought together influential Russians from a variety of fields and political backgrounds for an evening reception at the res­idence of the U.S. ambassador. 
"As I look around this room at the faces of tomorrow's Russia, people from different political parties ... people who are in private enterprises, I say to you: There is lots of room for difference of opinion," Clinton told the group. 


You Are Invited to Attend 


"Winning in the Value-Conscious '90s'' 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation on the Key to Creating and Leveraging Consumer Value 
Featuring 

Mike Milligan 
Senior Vice President 
Thursday, january 20 
5:30p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education Auditoriun1 
Reception immediately following. Food and beverages will be served. Dress is casual. Students from all majors welcome. 
Meet P&G managers from: 
• 
Finance 

• 
Sales 

• 
Management Systems 

• 
Product Development 

• 
Product Supply 

• 
Brand Management 




Procter&Gamble 


page 3 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhal 
Timber for the theater 
Sophomore Jeff Cluver works on set construction for the St. Edward's Hall production of "Brighton Beach Memoirs," to be held 
Clinton, Yeltsin agree to 

re-target nuclear missiles 
By BARRY SCHWEID could be reversed quickly. He Associated Press said in Washington the accord could have been strengthened if MOSCOW the two sides had agreed to 
It has been a nightmare separate the warheads from image for generations of the missiles. Americans and Russians: globe­Still, Thomas Pickering, the circling nuclear missiles target­U.S. ambassador to Moscow, ed at each other's nations, a called the agreement "an hair-trigger away from mutual important first step." destruction. "It has symbolic value but I 
Presidents Clinton and Boris think it also has real value in Yeltsin will announce an accord confidence-building between Friday ending the targeting, a the two countries," he said. perilous relic of the Cold War. Some of the missiles would be 
Their action will also lift, at aimed at uninhabited ocean least symbolically, the specter areas, but most would no of nuclear annihilation from longer be aimed at any specific Britain, France and others target, said administration offi­including Ukraine, which is cials. pledging to get rid of the third­largest arsenal in the world For decades thousands of and consequently will not be U.S. and Soviet nuclear war­targeted by the United States or heads have been on a ready-to-Russia. go alert, aimed at the territo-
Administration officials ries not only of the United acknowledged Thursday that States and the former Soviet the U.S.-Russia agreement was Union but of other nations, too. virtually impossible to verify The targets included military and that the missiles could be headquarters in large popula­retargeted within minutes. tion centers as well as missile 
Dunbar Lockwood, a senior sites. researcher at the private Arms The long-range missiles Control Association in under Russian control are Washington, called it a confi-spread among four former dence-building gesture that Soviet republics. 
r----------------,




: ~) : 
I Subs • Salads I r' M I
I {~~,,. .... .., ~ ) Martin's Plaza SR 23 & Ironwood I ~/ ............ \-' I 
I \, y_ i 99~ I 
I \~r?J. I 
I aEB I 'f SUN£~on~!:ir£IAL* I 
I f ~·-,1 Buy a regular 6" cold sub sandwich at I 1 regular menu price and receive a 2nd 6" 1 I l cold sub of equal or lessor value for 99¢. I 


________________... 
((c._,....--' ~ *Limited Time Customer must pay sales tax due 1
L. 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 14, 1994 
NATO 
continued from page 1 
ment according to government professor Gilburt Loescher. 
The Serbian-Bosnian conflict could have been averted if the United States or other Western European democracies had at­tempted to prevent the conflict earlier, he said. 
"We've got to learn the lessons of Bosnia," he said. "With early warning tools we won't just be reacting with an emergency policy."The threats of air strikes on Serbian posi­tions reflect a growing concern by Western leaders. but will likely have no effect, Leatherman said. 
"NATO's half-stated threats are probably only half-serious. Nobody wants to deal with the problem. It's really a passing of the buck from one organization to another." 
Citing the case of Belgian peacekeeping troops who can not be rotated home because shelling around their positions is too intense, Leatherman ex­plained that there is so much fear among Western countries of escalation, there will proba­bly be no action in the imme­diate future. 
In the meantime, if Clinton is truly concerned about Eastern Europe he would be wise to take steps toward economically improving those countries and their neighbors, McAdams said. 
"If Clinton is sincerely inter­ested, he'll put his money where his words are," he said. "We've heard all this general rhetoric about how liberal capi­talism is so good-now it's time to finance these things." 
Leatherman agreed, explain­ing that support for radical na­tionalists would be stemmed by better economic conditions. 
More alarming than the lack of vision is the lack of interest by the United States in Eastern Europe, McAdams said. Years of dealing with Eastern Europe as a Soviet puppet has left the United States with no past pol­icy to fall back on. 
If the United States hopes to make an impact in that region of the world, the basic attitude must change, he said. 
"The truth of the matter is that we're not interested," McAdams said. "We've never had a real policy toward these countries. We've tried to patch things up and occasionally make friends. That's the tragedy of Eastern Europe." 
of her siblings are professional 

muscians except one brother, according to Plummer. continued from page 1 Cerny, former chairman of 
After graduating from the music department, joined Indiana University, Plummer Notre Dame in 1972 after serv­went on to receive her master's ing on the faculty of the degree from the New England Eastman School of Music. His Conservatory. radio show has been carried by 
Her musical interest stems 30 National Public Radio sta­from a family background. All tions throughout the country. 
Concert 

Arafat angered by withdrawal delays 
By SALAH NASRAWI yet been worked out. Associated Press Israel and PLO delegates 
negotiating details of the 

TUNIS, Tunisia accord are to resume talks 
PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat Monday. Delegates said they accused Israeli Prime Minister made headway on transferring Yitzhak Rabin on Thursday of civilian control of the Gaza trying to delay Strip and the West Bank town the withdraw­of Jericho, but stalled over al of troops security issues, before the talks from occupied recessed Wednesday. territories. Israeli leaders have warned 
that if the talks drag on, the 

Arafat made sides are unlikely to meet the his latest al­accord's April 13 deadline for a legations of complete Israeli troop pullback. Israeli foot· 

NATO issues divide Germany 
By ARTHUR ALLEN Postwar guilt and fear of mili­Associated Press tarism have kept Germany from joining wholeheartedly in BONN, Germany international peacekeeping 
Germany's defense minister operations such as the Gulf wants NATO to train and equip War and Bosnia. former Soviet 
"We have to be cautious satellites to when we give advice," Kohl guarantee said in a speech to Parliament their future on Thursday. "We don't have membership in the moral right to demand the alliance. more from the leaders of other The foreign countries than we are willing to minister warns give ourselves." that a rapid "Germany is not a reliable expansion partner, and that creates a vac­
uum in NATO," said Stefan
eas~ward will Helmut Kohl 
altenate Schwarz, a young deputy from Russia. Kohl's party. "We need to clean 
At a time when NATO is being our house and become real, not asked to respond to violent out­formal members of NATO." breaks on its periphery, At NATO's summit in Chancellor Helmut Kohl's party Brussels, Belgium, this week, wants him to take a stronger Kohl supported President role in shaping the alliance's Clinton's "Partnership for policies. But Kohl's hands seem Peace" plan. which offers the tied by divisions within his Czechs, Poles, Slovakians and coalition government over how Hungarians limited ties with forceful a role Germany should NATO but with the prospect of play in NATO. eventual membership. 
The meeting was "a mile­stone on the road to a new security order for Europe," Kohl said. 
Defense Minister Volker Ruehe said the former Warsaw Pact nations should immediate­ly start taking part in NATO exercises and getting NATO­compatible equipment. 
But Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel cautioned against any action that would isolate Russia. "As long as the Russians say 'yes' to Europe, we can't say 'no' to the Russians," he said. 
Kinkel has also been hesitant to take a leading role on former Yugoslavia, where the Nazis killed hundreds of thousands of people during World War II. 
NATO's inaction in Bosnia has been compared to the 1938 appeasement of Hitler by Neville Chamberlain of Britain and Edouard Daladier of France. 



Experts forecast lower inflation 
By MARTIN the best stretch of inflation CRUTSINGER news in three decades. Prices Associated Press were up 3.1 percent in 1991 and 2. 9 percent in 1992. Last WASHINGTON year's increase was the small­
The cost of living rose a mod­est since a 1.1 percent rise in est 2. 7 percent in 1993 as 1986 that reflected a huge falling energy and tobacco plunge in oil prices. prices gave the country the In a third report, the Labor lowest inflation rate in seven Department said the number of years. Americans filing new claims for 
The Labor Department unemployment benefits edged reported Thursday that even down by 1,000 last week to medical costs were more mod­354,000. While the im­erate last year, turning in their provement was less than best performance in 20 years expected, analysts said it although they still rose twice as showed that employment fast as the overall inflation rate. growth was at least holding 
In other economic news. the steady. government reported that retail Economists said they looked sales, propelled by heavy for consumer prices to remain spending on big-ticket items docile in 1994 as well, even such as cars, were up a sur­with a significant pickup in eco­prisingly strong 0.8 percent in nomic activity in the final three December and 6.2 percent for the year, the best showing since 1989. 
Analysts said the two reports showed the economy at present is enjoying the best of possible worlds. 
"We can have our cake and eat it too, strong growth and no inflation," said Robert Barr, an economist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 
.It marked the third straight year of modest price increases, 

dragging dur­ing meetings with the American and Russian ambas­sadors in Tunis, the Palestine 

The Mishawaka Brming Company
Liberation Organization news agency Wafa reported. 

"Northern Indiana's Only Microbrewery" 
In letters delivered to the 3 703 North Main Street envoys, Arafat complained 
South of Edison on Main Street) about Israel erecting obstacles to avoid pulling back troops 

and "its non-commitment to any timetable," Wafa reported. 
Under the Israel-PLO au­tonomy accord, Israel should have started withdrawing troops from the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho on Dec. 13, but balked because security arrangements have not 

********** Cornish Pasty I Pub Pie I Fish 'N Chips Scotch Eggs / Shepherd's Pie Our Famous "Pubburrito" & Traditional American Fare ********** 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK FOR LUNCH & DINNER Phone: 256 ..9993 
months that was sparked by the lowest interest rates in a gener­ation. 
"We are seeing a very strong economy but no signs of any imminent inflationary pres­sures," said David Wyss, an economist at DRI-McGraw Hill Inc. 
Slack U.S. labor markets, tumbling world oil prices and a global economy still struggling with recession were all cited as reasons inflation should remain under control this year. 
While the Federal Reserve was expected to nudge short­term interest rates up slightly in coming months because of the stronger economic growth, analysts said the increases should still leave such key rates as 30-year bonds and home mortgagesbasically unchanged. 


-----------~------~---~--~---~­
Friday, January 14, 1994 
Whitewater S&L probe to focus on law firm 
By RICHARD KEIL Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Hillary Clinton's former law firm and several of its partners are coming under greater scrutiny than the president himself as the picture of the first family's relationship with an Arkansas real estate com­pany and a failed S&L begins to emerge. 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is investigating whether the Rose Law Firm of Little Rock, Ark., misled regula­tors about its past role advising Madison Guaranty Savings, owned by James McDougal. 
McDougal is the family friend who, with the Clintons, co-owned Whitewater Development Co. at the same time he owned Madison. 
The Justice Department has been investigating Madison's failure and its relationship to Whitewater and to the adminis­tration of then Gov. Clinton. And now the White House has asked for a special counsel to investigate these matters. 
The FDIC investigation cen­ters on whether Webb Hubbell, now No. 3 Justice Department official, told the FDIC that Rose once had represented Madison when the Rose firm was seek­ing an FDIC contract to sue 
: Raimo, Maria, Mikko and Paivi 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
1994-95 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the ?peratio~ of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong Interest 1n journalism and possess solid management, public rela~ions and communications skills. Previous newspaper expenence or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to David Kinney by 5 p.m. Wednesday, january 19, 1994. For additional information about the position or the application process, contact Kinney at 631-4542 or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune Student Center. 
Madison's accountants. Hubbell was a Rose partner at that time. 
Hubbell has said that he told regulators of that conflict, plus another one involving his own father-in-law, who had loans with the S&L. The FDIC says it has no records or recollection of this information. 
In addition, the late Vince Foster wrote the FDIC in 1989 that Rose was not then repre­senting any savings institutions. His letter did not mention that Rose had represented Madison four years earlier. Foster was a Rose partner at the time. 
In 1985, Mrs. Clinton helped Madison win appro.val from state regulators for a crucial recapitalization plan. She wrote 
_ a letter that said the S&L's plan was permissible under Arkansas law, but she did not discuss Madison's financial health. Madison paid a $2,000 monthly retainer to the Rose firm. 
The associate working with Mrs. Clinton, Richard Massey, told state regulators that Madison's financial health was improving -a view in direct contrast with the assessment of federal banking regulators ex­amining the S&L during that period. 
PEKKA 20 Years 
ONNEA 
Happy Birthday 
The Observer • NEWS 

On the subject of thrift 
Fisher Hall president Kevin Carroll sells books at the Student Government Book Fair. 
Reno to select special counsel 
By RICHARD CARELLI "ruggedly independent," and Associated Press would appoint that person "as soon as possible." WASHINGTON Justice Department in­
Attorney General Janet Reno vestigators have been trying to should pick a lawyer of unques­determine whether depositors' tioned integrity, ability and money was diverted illegally independence to investigate the from the failed Madison president's ties to a failed Guaranty Savings and Loan to Arkansas savings and loan, Whitewater Development Corp., legal experts said Thursday. a vacation-home development 
And picking a Republican in Arkansas. couldn't hurt, they added. Madison was owned by long­
Reno, asked by President time Clinton supporter James Clinton to name a special coun­McDougal. He and his wife co­sel, offered no further clues owned Whitewater with Thursday as to who she might President and Mrs. Clinton. select or when she might Also being investigated is announce her choice. whether Madison funds were 
A day earlier, Reno said she diverted to help retire Clinton's was looking for someone 1984 gubernatorial campaign 
Reagan won't halt Irangate report 
By PETE YOST 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Former President Reagan is giving up a court battle to sup­press key parts of a report by Iran-Contra prosecutors which is highly critical of his role in the scandal, Reagan's lawyers said Thursday. 
Court objections by Reagan, former Attorney General Edwin Meese and ex-White House aide Oliver North have delayed the report's release for the past month. 
On Jan. 7, a special panel of three federal appellate judges denied their requests for with­holding much of the document -and "President Reagan will not seek Supreme Court review," said Reagan lawyer Theodore Olson. 
The appellate judges have said they will release the report next week unless those who have sought to suppress it appeal to the Supreme Court. 
The attempts to delete por­tions of the report were filed in secret, but sources familiar with the matter identified the three as the key Iran-Contra figures who filed court motions for suppression. It could not be determined if others have filed 
TARA ST. AMAND: 

21 
and looking for a 
$[JJ]f!J&f!~ 
©Mf!J&fl 
ffJ©©f!J&f! 

debt. 
Justice Department spokesman Carl Stern said Reno has no formal process for her special counsel search. 
"She's tossing out a few names, and other people are suggesting some names, and they're checking them out," he said. Asked who is helping Reno, Stern said, "Certain peo­ple whose judgment on this matter the attorney general values." 
Not many people were willing to attach their names to specu­lation about who Reno might pick, but Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole gave Reno a list of prospects. 
-----------, 
page 5 

The Observer/ Scon Mendenhall 
objections. The sources spoke on condition of anonymity. 
"President Reagan is confi­dent that the American public will evaluate the report ... only in the context of the full record of Iran-Contra and President Reagan's response to the report," Olson said. 
"The public will be satisfied that President Reagan's con­duct with respect to all Iran­Contra matters was above re­proach and that he cooperated promptly and thoroughly with every investigation of Iran­Contra," Olson added. 
The report by independent counsel Lawrence Walsh-the culmination of a seven-year criminal investigation -found that Reagan "set the stage" for the Iran-Contra scandal's ille­gal activities and that Meese concocted "a false account" of one of the arms-for-hostages deals with Iran, according to other sources who have read portions of the document. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 14, 1994 
Many Ukrainians leery ofgiving up nuclear arsenal 
By PAVEL POLITYUK Associated Press 
KIEV, Ukraine 
President Leonid Kravchuk's decision to disarm Ukraine's missiles in return for U.S. and Russian aid and security guar­antees angered many Ukrainians who want the coun­try to keep its nuclear muscle. 
"I am ashamed of our presi­dent," Olga Lopata, a university student, said Thursday. "Last night he looked like Clinton's servant, not a president. He does not know how to stand up for Ukraine's interests. He is ready to give everything away in order to get America's grati­tude." 
After a brief airport meeting with Kravchuk, President Clinton announced Wednesday night that Ukraine had agreed to dismantle its 1,800 nuclear warheads over the next seven years. 

The agreement, however, would have to be ratified by Ukraine's parliament, which has previously balked at rub­ber-stamping agreements Kravchuk has signed and .is particularly reluctant to give up the nuclear missiles. 
"Kravchuk may sign whatev­er he wants to," said Sergei Golovaty, a member of parlia­ment's foreign affairs commit­tee. "But if the parliament does not ratify the agreement, it will remain just a piece of paper. I think th~ parliament should not ratify the document." 
Persuading Ukraine to give up its nuclear arsenal has been one of the United States' princi­pal foreign policy goals since the Soviet Union broke up in 
Clinton involvement key to outcome ofSyrian pact 
By NICOLAS TATRO 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel is waiting for Syria to say the magic word: normaliza­tion. 
Hopes are high here that President Clinton will wring a pledge from Syrian President Hafez Assad at a Sunday sum­mit in Geneva to set up embassies and open the Israeli­Syrian borders to tourism and trade. 
"I do have high expecta­tions," said Deputy Foreign Minister Yossi Beilin, one of the main architects of the lsrael­PLO agreement last Sept. 13. 
"I believe something like nor­malization or diplomatic rela­tions should be mentioned dur­ing this meeting," Beilin said in an interview Wednesday with The Associated Press. 
After plans for the Clinton­Assad meeting were announced last month, White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said the session would "provide the two leaders an opportunity to discuss the requirements for peace with security between Israel and Syria." 
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was more guarded about the summit. 
"I don't expect flexibility in the Syrian demand on the price for peace with Israel," he told Israeli army radio Thursday, in an apparent reference to Syrian demands for a total withdrawal from the disputed Golan Heights. 
Rabin's government has been waiting for Syria to define what peace will mean before Israel spells out how much of the Golan Heights, captured by Israel in the 1967 Middle East war, it is willing to return to Syrian control. 
"After Assad says what is the meaning of peace, we will say what is the meaning of with­drawal," said Ori Orr, head of Parliament's defense and for­eign affairs committee. 

Israeli already has seen some improvement in relations with Syria. 
Syrian statements on the peace process are less hostile. It allowed a U.S. team to inves­tigate the fate of Israeli MIAs, and Assad is once again com­mitted to granting travel per­mits to Syrian Jews. 
In one sign of the new, upbeat tone, the Syrian govern­ment daily Tishrin said Thursday that Syria would "spare no effort to put the peace process on the right track and to eliminate all mines planted before it." 
Later this month, Israel and Syria are to resume formal talks in Washington. They were suspended last September, when Israel signed agreements with the PLO and Jordan. 
What Israeli officials really want is a high-level meeting with Syria and a secret, third­party mediator like the late Johan Jorgen Holst, the Norwegian foreign minister who led secret talks that forged the Israel-PLO peace accord. 
One possible conduit for secret talks could be Edward Djerejian, the new U.S. ambas­sador to Israel who previously served in Damascus and speaks Arabic. 
Israel reportedly has pro­posed a phased pullback from the Golan and a long-term lease agreement that would leave Israeli settlements in place. 
"We need to find some kind of compromise between (keep­ing) all of the Golan and seeing Syria on the Sea of Galilee," said Orr, referring to the lake just below the Heights. 
Returning the Golan poses less of a problem for Israel than the West Bank and Gaza Strip because Israel has no his­torical claim to the 440 square­mile plateau and there are only about 12,000 Jews living in 32 settlements. 

SPRING BREAK '94 
:~~~kays~ ~:~:%~~~~ ~,. 
~ COREY F~~ ~o;~ ~~o~~:~~~~~~~SS~T~OUR -1-800-875-4525 
TOURS PARTIES EVER NITE!! OPEN BAR 10:30 PM-3:00AM 
December 1991. 
Ukraine's 176 long-range missiles, inherited from the Soviet Union, make up the world's third-largest nuclear arsenal. 
The agreement is to be signed in Mosco~ on Friday by Kravchuk, Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin. 
It offers Ukraine $177 million from a U.S. fund to help former Soviet republics dismantle nuclear weapons, $155 million in direct U.S. aid and up to $1 billion over 20 years from the commercial sale of uranium extracted from the warheads. 
Russia, which supplies 96 percent of Ukraine's energy needs, promised to sell oil and natural gas at bargain rates and joined with the United States in promising not to launch a nuclear attack and to respect Ukraine's territory. 

The energy pledge could help sway some lawmakers because Ukraine has been suffering eco­nomic troubles and an energy crisis because of Russia's previ­ous insistence on world prices for its gas and oil. 
But many lawmakers are likely to oppose giving up Ukraine's nuclear arsenal. They fear surrendering Ukraine's missiles would mean a Joss of international prestige and leave it vulnerable to a powerful Russian military. 
After centuries of Russian domination, Ukrainians are fiercely protective of the in­dependence they won with the breakup of the Soviet Union in December'1991 and are partic­ularly worried about a potential military threat. Ukraine en­joyed brief independence after World War I but was recon­quered by the Red Army in 1921. 
Deputies so far have refused to honor Kravchuk's 1991 pledge to get rid of all of Ukraine's long-range nuclear missiles. Lawmakers also objected to an agreement Kravchuk signed with Yeltsin giving Russia the Black Sea Fleet in return for economic concessions. 
But some lawmakers said they believed that this time, Kravchuk might prevail. 
"It is in the interests of both Ukraine and the United States," said deputy Vladimir Grabin. "Clinton's visit considerably increases Ukraine's prestige as a state. I think that the par­liament of Ukraine has become wiser. It is time to reconsider our decision." 

South African party rips ANC 
Ruling Nationalists warn of 'economic ruin' 
By TINA SUSMAN 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
The governing National Party warned of economic ruin under socialism Thursday, after the ANC called for an end to pri­vate ownership of mineral wealth. 
In a draft policy document released Wednesday, the African National Congress asked that the mining industry be revamped to ensure assets are shared by all. 
Paul Jourdan, the ANC's min­eral and energy policy coordi­nator, said the group had not decided how to do this. He denied it planned to nationalize the industry. But Jourdan slammed private ownership of South Africa's mines, calling it "the global exception." 
In response, President F.W. de Klerk's National Party cau­tioned in a statement that for­eign investors would be driven away and the economy crippled if the ANC, the nation's largest black nationalist group, was allowed to institute its plan. 

It called the document "clear proof" that the ANC is still clinging to outdated socialist policies that would "destroy the economy of this country and bring it to its knees, as ... in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe." 
Economic restructuring is a sensitive issue for the ANC, which must balance the demands of the impoverished black majority with the con­cerns of white-run industries. With elections due in April, the ANC has sought to reassure business leaders by moving away from past calls for wide­spread nationalization. 
Instead, it says it supports a "mixed economy" that would combine some nationalization with tax reforms, anti-monop­oly legislation and free-market policies aimed at encouraging new businesses and creating jobs. 
ANC leaders will discuss the document this month and possi­bly incorporate it into an over­all economic policy. Among other things, it suggests moving away from private mine owner­ship by instituting a tax on min­eral rights and expropriating mines whose owners are will­ing. 
Mining, long South Africa's No. 1 industry, has fallen to No. 2 behind manufacturing because of stagnant gold prices and increased production costs. More than 500,000 people are employed in the mining of gold, diamond, platinum, coal and other minerals. 
ANC President Nelson Mandela again asked oppo­nents Thursday to end their boycott of the reform process and take part in the April vote. 


FOLLOW-UP MEETIN"G 6:30-10:00 PM JANUARY 16TH (Sunday) Meet in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
l I 

Friday, January 14, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS 
Italians to begin new elections 
By DANIEL WAKIN Associated Press 
ROME 

Premier Carlo Ciampi re­signed Thursday. opening the way for parliamentary elections that are expected to oust the scandal-scarred parties that have dominated Italy for five decades. 
Ciampi, 73, a former gov-· ernor of Italy's central bank and the country's first premier not aligned with a political party, saw himself as a transi­tional figure. In his eight months in office, he pushed through electoral reforms and started selling off state-owned industries at the heart of the nation's patronage system. 
President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro planned to meet Friday with the leaders of the Senate and Chamber of Deputies, a necessary step before dissolving Parliament. 
That would bring on the elec­tions foreseen as the culmina­tion of a year of reform. 
The period was marked by a change to direct election of individual lawmakers and the widening of investigations in a corruption scandal that has implicated most of Italy's politi­cal and business elite. 
In local elections last month, voters handed humiliating defeats to the Christian Democrats, Socialists and smaller allies that have gov­erned since World War II but have been entangled in corrup­tion investigations. 
The former Communists and other leftist parties and pro­reform groups like the sepa­ratist Northern League are poised to be the new power brokers. 
Ciampi's departure was wide­ly expected. On taking office last April as head of Italy's 52nd government since World 
War II, he set his main tasks as fiscal and electoral reform. 
With the budget in place, he began moves toward privatiza­tion of state enterprises and took the final steps in switching to district elections from the allocation of Parliament seats according to parties' proportion of the vote. "The course has been laid," Ciampi said late last month. · 
Scalfaro must formally accept Ciampi's resignation. If he does, he can ask Ciampi to stay on as a caretaker until the election, which could come as early as March. 
The powerful and influential industrialists association, Confindustria, said it favored his return. 
Ciampi had general support from most parties in Parliament. But many of his supporters had endorsed a no­confidence motion as a way to force elections sooner. 
Iraq refuses U.N. oil sale plan 
By VICTORIA GRAHAM Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS Iraq reiterated its refusal of a 
U.N. plan to allow a one-time, $1.6 billion oil sale to raise money for badly needed aid, saying Thursday that the deal would violate Iraq's sovereign­ty. 
Iraqi diplomats also accused the United States of blocking any U.N. move to lift a U.N. oil embargo on Iraq. They said Iraq has made progress in meeting U.N. conditions for lift-
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Private homes for: JPW, GRADUATION, FRESHMAN ORIENTATION, FOOTBALL and Other Special ND/SMC WEEKENDS 
(219) 291~ 7153 

ing the embargo. 
In a statement Thursday, Iraq repeated its claim that 400,000 people have died since the imposition of oil and other trade sanctions in August 1990. 
The claim could not be con­firmed, but humanitarian orga­nizations say that lack of food, medicine and supplies has caused widespread suffering, malnutrition and many deaths. 
The Security Council is to review the total trade embargo against Iraq next week. But 
U.N. diplomats privately predict the embargo will remain in place for at least another six months. 
The Iraqi diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, repeated Baghdad's refusal to discuss a small, one-time oil sale. 
Happy 20th Birthday 

WILL! 
Love, 

Mom&Dad 
9 Month Leases for Students 3 Month Summer Leases 
LOCATED· IN THE HEART OF EVERYTHING! 
Main St. between Edison & McKinley 
• 
Pool & Jacuzzi 

•Club 
House •Washer/Dryer ··Microwaves 


255~7777 

They told The Associated Press that strict U.N. su­pervision of the oil sale and dis­tribution of food and supplies would be an unacceptable vio­lation of Iraq's sovereignty. Iraq has made similar argu­ments in the past. 
The diplomats also said Iraq's deputy prime minister, Tariq Aziz, would not visit New York this month, as had been expect­ed. Instead, Iraq seeks a meet­ing in Baghdad in late January or February with U.N. weapons experts to discuss terms for lift­ing the oil embargo, they said. 
The diplomats said Iraq still does not know exactly what 
U.N. weapons officials want before they will certify to the Security Council that Iraq has satisfied terms of the cease-fire. 
The council imposed a total trade embargo, including oil, after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990. But the council's cease-fire resolution says the oil embargo may be lifted after Iraq satisfies certain weapons­related conditions. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,0CXJ Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service 


-$2.00 
• Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (2191 232-8444 
~ 
·=·=-~-....l.o.l.l.l.i~~::..,_~~
I REMINGTON cou 
McKinley 
Jefferson Blvd. 
0 
0 
~ 
c: 
e 
Lincoln Wa East 


page 7 

/ 
.......... 
/
'·., 
........ -­
MEXICO 
•

extcan government oves toward rebel talks 
SAN CRISTOBAL DE 
LAS CASAS, Mexico government's peace openly accepted an 
movement as a 
o r c e hursday, aking a cond step ow a r d eeting e b e l 
emands ~ talks. Carlos e also 
Salinas de 
he had 

eceived Gortari essages at might be an opening to gotiations, but it was not 
if he had heard directly rebel leaders. 
President Carlos Salinas de made the first overture ednesday when he a unilateral cease­in the southern state of 1.....u·u~·"'"' and said troops would rebels and their strong­only if attacked first. He lso offered to pardon the uerrillas if they laid down 
weapons. But there was no sign of the lcrnmn•nrno1nt meeting the rebels' 
1Ut1111U·UU 
that the 14,000 SOl­in Chiapas be withdrawn. and tanks contin­to advance slowly toward adalupe Tepeyac, a town the Guatemalan border to be a rebel strong-
Zapatista National ration Army, which I"U''-'"~'" ... the nation with a New Day uprising, had 1u"u'"'u"'"... the government stop offensives, recognize movement and withdraw ops. The rebels say they t to improve the lot of ans, most of whom lack 
decent housing, education jobs. 
Estimated to number fro 1,000 to 2,000, the rebels not publicly responded to government overtures so News of the cease-fire to time reaching Chiapas, remote expanse of and jungle that is Mexic poorest state. A majority of population of 3.2 million ar Indians. 
Manuel Camacho appointed by Salinas to •u~..........,1 the rebellion, told reporters had received responses to request for talks with the rillas. 
"I have received message from various parts of the try that appear to be the signs of negotiations," Camacho said, but offered elaboration. It was not known he made contact with th rebels or their sympathizers. 
Speaking in San Cristobal las Casas, a colonial-era 460 miles southeast of Mex1co1 City, Camacho said he rec nized the rebels as a "politic and military organization." 
Salinas appointed the foreign minister as special missioner to Chiapas o Monday after a series o Cabinet shuffles intended send p·eace signals to t rebels. A 4 7 -year-old of Princeton Un Camacho gained a re""'l"t''"nl as an able conciliator while was mayor of Mexico City. 
He met with Roman Laltnoncl Church leaders and advoc for Indians. 
He has been accompanied Bishop Samuel Ruiz and church officials since arrived Wednesday. Ruiz, Indian rights crusader, ha been accused by the govern ment of inflaming Indian ants with sermons on so justice. 
"I will be working with Dishop who knows the diffe 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 14, 1994 
Jurors reach third deadlock in Menendez murder case 
By LINDA DEUTSCH 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
The judge in Erik Menendez's murder case declared a mistri­al on Thursday after jurors re­ported a third time that they could not reach a verdict. His brother's jury kept deliberat­ing. 
Jurors considering charges against Erik first reported an impasse Monday and were told by Superior Court Judge Stanley Weisberg to keep try­ing. They reported Thursday that jurors' strong opinions had become even "more en­trenched." 
"The jury feels there is no possibility of reaching a verdict or verdicts without violence to our individual judgments," a note from the jury foreman said. 
Erik, 23, and his brother, Lyle, 26, admit fatally shooting their wealthy parents, Jose and Kitty Menendez, in their Beverly Hills mansion Aug. 20, 1989, but claim it was self­defense after years of abuse. 
The prosecution alleged they were coldblooded killers moti­vated by greed and hatred and sought the death penalty. 
After receiving the note Thursday, Weisberg sent Erik's panel back to deliberate with a new set of verdict forms seek­ing more information on how the jury stood on the various counts. The panel returned again with no verdicts. 
Erik was grim-faced and appeared to look straight ahead as the mistrial was announced. His lawyer, Leslie Abramson, said moments earlier outside the courtroom that he was "very upset" and would prefer a verdict to a mistrial. 
The mistrial was declared in the 19th day of deliberations by 
Midwest braces for winter cold 
By MITCHELL lANDSBERG 
Associated Press 
As a breathtaking blast of Arctic air descended toward the eastern third of the nation Thursday, homeless shelters stocked up on food and bed­ding and road workers laid in extra salt and sand. 
This weekend is expected to bring the coldest weather so far this winter to much of the Northeast and Midwest, with temperatures far lower than those already blamed for expo­sure deaths this week in Washington, D.C., and Chicago. 
Against that backdrop, home­less shelters were on alert and some city workers and home­less advocates raised ominous warnings about'the coming siege. 
"I think there's trouble com­ing," said John Talbutt of New York City's Social Service Employees Union, which repre­sents shelter workers. 
The Arctic cold front is expected to shove tempera­tures below zero Saturday night across New England and parts of the mid-Atlantic and Midwestern states. 

Erik's jury. 
District Attorney Gil Garcetti had already said that the case would be retried if there was a mistrial. 
If the jury had acquitted Erik of first-degree murder but were unable to agree on reducing charges, the prosecution would have been precluded from filing the heaviest charge again. 
The defendants, who each testified for 10 days, said they were sexually tortured and mentally and physically abused by their parents from earliest childhood. They said they be­came convinced they were about to be killed and acted in self-defense. 
The trial lasted more than five months. Before dismissing Erik's panel, Weisberg thanked them for their service. 
"You've made great sacrifices to be here," he said. 
Weisberg ordered Erik's jurors not to talk to reporters until after Lyle's panel was dis­charged. 
"We still have the other jury deliberating and I'm trying to insulate them from whatever views you may have in this case," he said. 
He took the unusual step of having the foreman write down the numerical split of the jury on its decisions rather than announcing it in court so as to not affect the outcome of Lyle's case. 
Lyle's jury continued its 21st day of deliberations after ask­ing the court for more help with legal instructions. 
That jury indicated it was weighing a manslaughter con­viction as a lesser alternative to murder. 
There are two juries in the trial because certain evidence was admissible against only one brother or the other. 
Approaching._ Human Dignity " Through'· Nonviolence 
Radiation research condemned 
By MARTIN FINUCANE 
Associated Press 
WALTHAM, Mass. 
Two former patients at a school for the mentally re­tarded heard Thursday how they were guinea pigs in food studies using radioactive parti­cles 40 years ago as members of a "science club." 
"At that particular time, I could not read or write," said Austin LaRocque, a former patient at the Fernald State School. "I had no knowledge of anything, other than I did what I was told, when I was told." 
His comment came during the first congressional hearing in what promises to be a lengthy investigation into government­backed atomic experiments during the first two decades of the Cold War, spurred by re­cent reports of plutonium tests on people after World War II. 
Only small doses of radiation were administered to about 120 students at Fernald. But experts told a panel headed by Sen. Edward Kennedy and Rep. Edward Markey that the Fernald experiments were deplorable because the re­searchers failed to get the full consent of participants or their guardians. 
The tests also were faulted for not having any direct bene­fit to the participants. 

"It was a typical failing of research in those days," said Dr. Kenneth Ryan, a Harvard Medical School professor who helped develop more stringent federal guidelines in the 1970s for research involving humans. 
Radioactive isotopes were given in milk and cereal to stu­dents at Fernald to see if a chemical in oatmeal would interfere with the body's ability to absorb iron and calcium, said J. David Litster, head of research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. MIT and Harvard faculty were in­volved in the studies. 
LaRocque and Charles Dyer, another former student, said they didn't know until they were told of news reports this month that the tests they par­ticipated in as members of a "science club" involved radioactive material. 
Dr. A Bertran Brill, research director and professor of nuclear medicine at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center, was asked by LaRocque whether he would allow a child of his own to par­ticipate in a similar study. 
"Knowing what I know now, I would," said Brill, who added he has taken radioactive iso­topes himself for research pur­poses. 
But Brill acknowledged the Fernald research would fail to meet modern guidelines for informed consent by the sub­jects or their parents. 
Litster said the average intake of the children in the study of irradiated iron av­eraged about 230 millirems. 
He said about "300 millirems is the natural amount of radia­tion we are exposed to by living in Boston." 
"There is no excuse for using vulnerable populations and not protecting them," said George Annas, a Boston University medical ethicist. 
Markey repeatedly called for apologies for what "was done in the name of national securi­ty." 
In fact, the Fernald exper­iments were done as part of a wide range of civilian research on patients and materials that was different in its aim from defense research that tested the effects of radiation on hu­mans. 
Ryan said modern-day feder­al regulations on human exper­imentation provide far more protection than they did 40 or 50 years ago, though they could be tightened. 

Flu epidemic continues to spread 
By LEONARD PALLATS 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
The severe type of flu that hit epidemic levels last month is only going to get worse. 
The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported Thursday that Type A flu is expected to become even more widespread before the end of January. 
Flu season normally begins in November and lasts until March. 
So far, the strain has been reported in every state except Mississippi, Delaware, Hew Hampshire and Rhode Island. 

The flu outbreak became a national epidemic the last two weeks of December, when deaths from flu and pneumonia rose in the 121 U.S. cities moni­tored by the CDC, said Dr. Larry Schoenberger. 
"I am confident that mortality data will continue to rise," said Schoenberger, medical officer for the CDC's influenza branch. 
The elderly and other people at high risk from the flu may still benefit from a flu shot, he said. 
The vaccine is effective about 70 percent of the time, making it worth taking, Schoenberger said. 
"You've got a virus that is very tricky," he said. "It's able to change on a regular basis.' 
He estimated that 42 million people have had flu shots this winter. 
In Mississippi, state epi­demiologist Dr. Mary Currier said the flu may peak later. 
"We are starting to hear more and more from physicians who say they are seeing patients with flu-like symp­toms," she said. 

Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includes team sports, free aerobics classes, 
and much more. 
Efficiencies from $270 
1-Bedrooms from $285 
2-Bodrooms from $345 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Adivities with Free A':lrobics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 
l-j-CL£VELANO 
~7~-lSSf) 
rHICKORij 
DlLLAGEfj 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6, S~t. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, January 14, 1994 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Parrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately·and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News ~ditor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comm~maries, leuers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Phoro 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
PAUL PEARSON IDEAS AND IDEALS 
For one Baptist Convention, figuring salvation is like algebra 
I'm going to hell. That's not freshmen to Turtle Creek at the Now, before you write this off he's not telling anyone what uate of Notre Dame and a for­according to the "fan mail" I've beginning of this year), they as a regional quirk that has they show. mer Observer writer. He cur­been getting. It's not even the estimated how many people nothing to do with you in South Heaven help us. rently works as a writer/editor opinion of my last blind date. from different religions and Bend, consider this: King says for a tri-lingual newspaper in This is according to the sects are "close enough" in he also has national figures, but Paul Pearson is a 1993 grad-Tampa, Florida. Southern Baptist Convention. their beliefs to get to heaven. 
See, they've come up with According to the study, all the LETTERS TO THE EDITOR that secret formula for deter­Baptists are going to heaven mining which people will be (including Jim Bakker and joining them in the afterlife and Jimmy Swaggart, I suppose), 
Sisters vow to protect all human life 
who will burn forever. and all members of non­Christian religions, such as Dear Editor: however, one fmds them warm contingent on human factors as According to an article in the Judaism and Buddhism, haven't Over· Christmas break, I had and funny and as normal as well. When we forget the intrin­Sept. 5 edition of the got a prayer. the wonderful opportunity of anyone. In fact, two of the sis­sic value of life, as a gift from Birmingham News, the Baptists The other Christian faiths are spending four days on retreat ters are recent Notre Dame God, we open the doors to all 
in Alabama have done a coun­a bit tricky. According to Martin with the newly formed religious graduates and recalled anec­types of slaughter, whenever ty-by-county survey of people King, spokesman for the Home order, the Sisters of Life estab­dotes from their ND days. we determine life to be without who follow the Baptists' beliefs. Mission Board, which compiled lished in 1991 by John Cardinal What separates the sisters is worth. It is as if a man loved a Anyone who did not match up the study, different non-Baptist O'Connor of New York. ln addi­not their habit, but simply their woman not for her inherent closely enough was counted as creeds were judged based on tion to the traditional vows of radical generosity to the calling self, but because of a secondary"lost." how closely their teachings poverty, chastity, and obedi­of Christ. Far from making characteristic, such as intelli­The end result: Forty-six per­match those of the Southern ence, the sisters have also them "better" than anyone, the gence or beauty. cent of the people in Alabama, Baptists. Thus, more Methodists devoted themselves to a fourth sisters' religious vows call them The Sisters of Life were a state where religion and col­are going to heaven than vow, the protection of the to the humble service of others, formed precisely because there lege football reign supreme, are Catholics. sacredness of all human life. praying for those who cannot is such a need to value life as not "saved" and face the grave This makes me wonder: Are or do not pray, and uniting God intended. These women 
danger of going you-know­the Catholics actually too liber­This order was not forned as themselves through their spiri­have sacrificed physical mater­where. al to meet the Baptists' demand a political action group -tual poverty (obedience) to the nity i order to be spiritual Imagine what would have for entry into heaven? indeed, it was far from it. It is poverty of God's weakest, espe­mothers to those many children 
happened if they had surveyed It seems like figuring out the a active-cotemplative order. cially the unborn. Like the unmothered and unloved. 
this place. fate of one's soul is as simple as Their formation apostolalte fetus, who cannot influence her 
Of course, you're already algebra. X times Y equals your currently consists of care of the destiny, the Sister of Life, in The sisters are concerned thinking to yourself, this had to chances of a blissful afterlife. elderly and of terminal cancer faith, subordinates her will to about all life, but especially the be just a poll of how many peo­Forget all that garbage your patients. Once the order is obey the will of God. unborn because it is their most ple in Alabama actually are rector has been giving you more settled, the Cardinal basic right to be, to exist, that Baptists, right? I mean, they about loving your neighbor. hopes to open a retreat center At the beginning of the is denied by our "culture of didn't try to determine how I'm not a Baptist myself, and I for post-abortion mothers, retreat, the Cardinal reminded death" They have as their many people from other reli­think surveys like this do far mothers in problem pregnan­us that the value of human life motto a line from the poem gions are saved, did they? more harm than good. cies, and those in the pro-life exists because God called it into "The Annunciation", "An noth­
You bet your Bible Belt they Therefore, I must be going to movemelt needing hope and existence -into being. In all ing again would be casual or 
did. hell. Very simple and easy, spiritual rejuvenation. our bustle and noise-filled lives, small" (" ... but all would be 
The most interesting part right? According to the Cardinal, we forget to acknowledge the light-invested overspilled with 
about this is the "secret" for­prayer is the foundation and wondrous fact that we exist. All terror and divinity"). If Saint 
mula used to determine the Say, does this mean I can do bulwark of the apostolate; our human endeavors are for Francis of Assisi saw God's 
percentage of "lost" souls from whatever I want and not worry therefore, the more the sisters naught in the absence of this priceless handiwork in the 
each religion. about my fate, since I'm going receive in prayer, the more simple fact. smallest flower and in the birds 
The study took each county's to burn anyway? Can I steal, they can give to others in their Even God defined Himself as, of the air, how much more 
population and subtracted the kill, buy liquor for underage apostolate. "I Am Who Am". Therefore, the meaning is invested in a child 
memberships of all Baptist friends, cheer for Southern Cal Wearing a white and blue Cardinal says, our frrst vocation of God, each a reflection of the 
churches. Then, using a and belch in public without a habit and spending about four is to be. Father. 
"secret" formula (which they thought about the conse­hours in daily prayer, these Because our parents could KATRINA HILTON 
probably borrowed from the quences? women may seem unreal at have contracepted us or could Senior 
people who sent 70 unfortunate The possibilities are scary. first glance. On acquaintance, have aborted us, human life is Pasquerilla West 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
DOONESBURY 

H&R£'5 AA INTe<eST-7HAT 15 
/N6 0Ne,/rl1Ke1 "/?&AR A 600[) 
aJY5: /X) 'tOJ tOOl< QU?-3­
IAKe ~~IN T/Q\1. 
f?I3AL. t..IF& r J. F., z ...' 
PRfJV/f?fiNC&, -I 
R.Z.U 

50 WHATWW!i P&AUYWOJ< Ul<!i WITHOUT CIJRRE:C;I7V8 
6/<APHIC5 '? IAJI3U-1 70 /313 
P£3/<FtCTt..Y fON£3ST,•. 
((A man's voice on the tape 
~sked, 'Why don't we just kill her?' The response was: 'We don't need to kill her. Let's just hit her in the knee."' 
-Conspirators in the Nancy Kerrigan case 


So you've moved off campus and don't have the slightest idea how to boil water. Ok, at least not how to use any of the kitchen appliances besides the microwave. Here are a few helpful books to aid you in the kitchen, while mom and dad are nowhere to be found. 
The College Cookbook: An Alternative to the Meal Plan, by Geri Herrington. Offers an array of fabu­lous recipes and treats that require little time and effort, often with just a wisk of a simple household appliance. 
Where's Mom Now That I Need Her?, by Betty and Ray Francin. A complete guide to surviving on your own, including cooking easy and nutritious recipes like chili, macaroni, salads and breads. 
The Notre Dame Before and After the Game Cookbook, by Flo Yeandel. An Irish fan favorite espe­cially for those tailgating foods that become so popular even in the winter months. Check this out for a fast, yummy meal. 
Great American Cookies, by Lorraine Dodger. Every kind of cookie just like Mom used to make is at your fingertips to satisfy those late night munchies and study sessions. Chocolate chip, sugar, peanut butter, plus some intriguing favorites. 
Please Don't Feed the Alligators, by The Parent Teacher Association of Hilton Head Elementary School. This book filled with great Florida recipes to warm anyone's belly. Some down South favorites to chase away the winter blues. 
Recipes to please your palate 
Ramen Pride-Comes in a variety of mouth­watering flavors 
Add 1 packaage of noodles to 2 cups boiling water (or to your dorm room hot pot) and cook for 3 minutes until tender. Stir in entire contents of flavor packet (or a veritable substitute). Dig in. Serve as noodle soup, casserole, or add meat and vegetables for a truly wholesome meal. 
Grilled Cheese 
1 skillet 
1 tbl. butter 
2 slices of bread 

3 slices American cheese (Velveeta is a cheap substitute). 
Butter one side of each slice of bread and place the butter side down in the pan, cooking until golden brown. Add the cheese and the other slice of bread and flip over browning the other side of the sandwich. Presto you have a meal. A hot iron placed on the cotton setting will do the same trick for an extra crispy, melty delight. 
Eggs Richard-Here is what they eat at Boston College 
6 slices of bread 6 slices of swiss cheese 6 eggs Butter Nutmeg Salt and pepper 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Cut crusts from the bread and fry one side of the bread slices in butter until brown. Place the slices flat on a greased cookie sheet and lay cheese on each slice of bread. Break the eggs onto the cheese. Some white may run over but the yolk will stick. Sprinkle seasonings to taste and bake until eggs are done. Serves 3. 
Beef and Pinto Beans-A recipe from University of Pittsburgh 
1 onion chopped 
1 lb. ground beef 
Cook beans untill soft and then mush them up (we suggest you use your hands). Add some of the onion and the sauce. Refry for 10 minutes. Brown meat with the rest of the onions and drain the fat. Add some more of the hot sauce. Serve the beans and hamburger with fresh tomatoes and lettuce in taco or burrito shells. A great Mexican fiesta. Good with cold beer. 
Coconut Blender Pie-A Stanford University Favorite 
1/3 cup honey 1/2 cup butter 
4 eggs 1/2 cup flour 
1 cup milk 1 cup shredded coconut 
1/2 tsp. salt 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 unbaked pie shell 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Blend all ingredi­ents in the blender for 2 minutes. Pour mix into pie shell and bake for 30-40 minutes or until set. Serves 6-8. 
Indian Rice-Cooking up at Northwestern University 
2 cups uncooked rice 3 cups cooked shredded chicken 5 cups chicken broth 2 tsp. turmeric 2 cups chopped peanuts 1 tbl. ginger salt and pepper to taste 11/2 cups raisins 1 tbl. curry powder 
Combine ingredients in skillet. Cover and sim­mer until liquid is absorbed and rice is tender, about 30 minutes. Do not lift the cover before 30 minutes is up. Delicious meal to serve 4-6. 
11/2 cups pinto beans Recipes included in The College Cookbook. 2 cups hot tomato sauce with chili powder 

--~--,----------~--~-·­
Friday, January 14, 1994 The Observer • ETC. page 11 
-
~114 


I 






Macaroni & cheese & mold: off-campus males experience 'The Joy of Cooking' 
Off-campus women create culinary, fat-free delights 
Scott Mendenhall 

Anne Mercorella, a Saint Mary's senior, displays her welt-stocked refridgerator. 
By MATT CARBONE 
Accent writer 
Any male thinking about moving off­campus should get ready to fall in love with macaroni and cheese, which he will be eating at least twice a week. 
At $0.39 a package and with a prepa­ration time of five minutes, it quickly becomes a st.aple in any off-campus male's diet. 
This is but one of the interesting facts of off-campus eating which will soon become painfully clear to you and your digestive system upon moving into your apartment. 
Another is that food seems to get moldy much quicker in your off-campus apartment than it does at home. Whereas nothing at home ever went bad off-campus men must test and examine everything before it is eaten. 
If only one piece of advice were to be given to off-campus men about their food, it should be this: Always check the bread before eating it. 
Scurvy and goiter are other real threats to your health. Off-campus, there is no fully-stocked salad bar, no homey country stand overflowing with fresh fruit, no "lighter fare." 
The only vegetables your body is going to process in your year of off-campus living are the diced peppers inside your Bob Evans Microwaveable Sausage and Ham Burrittos. 
Your diet will become so poor that you will actually begin to dream of the shin­ing faces, gloved hands and laden spoons of Barb, Mary Sue and the rest of the dining hall ladies. 
Meat will become a delicacy rarely consumed (unless you count the meat­balls in a can of Where's Waldo Spaghetti-Os as meat, which isn't really right). 
ByMARADMS 
Accent Writer 
Bagels, pasta, macaroni and cheese, salsa, tortillas ... sound like the dining hall? Not with dinner at any time between 3 p.m. and midnight and dou­ble coupon days at Kroger's. 
Off-campus living provides culinary freedom and a healthier, cheaper way of eating, according to several female Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, at last completely responsible for feed­ing themselves. 
Students living off-campus can no longer rely on the dining hall for their three squares a day, but this sudden independence can teach how to balance a budget and how to eat more healthily, according to Saint Mary's senior Megan Hurley. 
"You learn how to budget your money eating-wise," she said. "You don't eat everything, like at the dining hall. You save money for other stuff that you need." 
Hurley, who lives at Campus View, said that the main advantage she found to her off-campus food preparation was the opportunity to prepare what she wants individually, as opposed to having no choice in entrees at the dining hall. 
"You can prepare what you really want to eat rather than eating some­thing just because it's there," she said. 
This is an advantage for students who generally do not eat the main dinners at the dining hall, said Notre Dame senior Anne LaFleur. 
"(When I was on campus) I usually ate out of the deli and the salad bar any­way," she said. "(Off-campus) I make ex-

By the end of your first month off-campus, you will have eaten so much spaghetti that you will be saying "Fughedaboutit" involuntarily, greasing your hair back and wearing Zubaz pants by choice. 
Some off-campus men, however, have gotten cre­ative, devising their own systems and dishes in order to raise themselves out of these culinary ruts. 
Chris Caracciolo, a senior living at Lafayette Square, and his roommates have devised a system wherein one of the eight former Grace residents living in two nearby apartments each takes a day to cook for the other seven. 
To hear Caracciolo tell it, this plan has gone swim­mingly to date. 
''I'm really glad we did it," said Caracciolo. "It puts a little variety in my diet, while simultaneously forc­ing us all to eat together. I was worried that once I moved off-campus, I would lose touch with my friends. But with our system, it's Scott Mendenhall like We're a little family.­CampUS View men display their few yet important items in the al~-~.ale Brady Bunch, If 
their fridge 

· If it's not macaroni and cheese or Chef-Boy-Ar-Dee, it's the other given of an off-campus diet: spaghetti. If you don't like spaghetti or don't know how to make it, and are deciding to move off-campus, be prepared to wither away and die. 
actly what I want." 

What is available to eat in the pantries 
and refrigerators at Campus View and 
Lafayette Square can also be healthier 
than the entrees at the .dining hall, said 
Saint Mary's junior Joanne Pavin. 
"It's a lot easier to keep your weight 
down when you live off-campus," Pavin 
said. 

"I find that at the dining hall you're 
always tempted by all the desserts or 
french fries. Here we don't keep any 
cakes or cookies in the apartment." 
As far as what students do keep in the 
apartment, the list ranges from pow­
dered milk, bagels, homemade spaghetti 
sauce, lettuce, Grey Poupon, grapefruit, 
and tupperware containers of leftover 
pasta. 

Pasta and pre-packaged meals are 
easy to prepare and can take less than 
five minutes, which make them popular 
dinner choices, according to Saint 
Mary's senior Amy Bennett, who lives at . Campus View. . 
"I don't cook," she said. "I buy things 
pre-packaged. I've actually made things 
only three or four times this year." 
LaFleur and her roommates, residents 
of Campus View, shop individually for 
food and store it labelled in the pantry. 
They save money by using coupops at 
Martin's and Kroger's, and by purchas­
ing food in bulk when certain items are 
on sale, she said. 

Bennett also uses coupons to save, 
something she said she had never done 
before. 

"I never used to cut coupons," she 
said. "But Kroger has double coupons 
every day. When I go home, I'll steal the 
Sunday paper away from my mom and 
you Will. 

While Caracciolo's room­mates agree with him for the most part on the success of their sys-tern, their are a few complaints. "If Caracciolo cooks chicken and brae­coli one more time, I'm going to deep~fry his face," said Sean Hyer, one of Caracciolo's roommates. Compared to other senior guys living 
look through it for the coupons." 
Despite these efforts to conserve money, financial disadvantages can creep up. 
Because making one's own food can take time, the temptation to go out to eat can end up costing more than eating in or even eating on campus at the din­ing hall, said Bennett. 
"If you don't feel like cooking, you go out a lot more," Bennett said. 
She said that she and her roommates rarely eat a family style meal together, due to their different schedules, but that they do try to eat out together occasion­ally. 
• 

LaFleur and her roommates, however, eat out once a week at Hacienda, Macri's Deli, or Bruno's, and occasional­-, ly have a "family night" together. 
But by not eating out at all, and by making precious few trips to the grocery store, Pavin and her roommates have found a way to conserve cash, she said. 
"We never sit down for a family meal," she said. "I go grocery shopping once every three weeks and clear out ev­erything I have before I have to go out again." 
"It's not that I can't really afford it, but I could be spending money on better things than food." 
... 

off-campus, Caracciolo, Hyer and com­pany have it good. 
Doug Vincent, another senior at Lafayette Square, had to ask himself the question facing many off-campus males: "Is it bad to eat the same thing every day?" 
His diet consists chiefly of ramen noo­dles for lunch ($0.20 a pack bought in bulk, two minutes preparation time) and rice and potatoes for dinner ($2.69, five minutes preparation time). 
Keith Anderson, a senior resident of Turtle Creek, did not prepare one meal in the ten days up to and including finals, eating his meals at a host of dif­ferent fast food restaurants around South Bend. 
"I had breakfast at Taco Bell for five straight days," said Anderson. "To tell you the truth, it was really better than it sounds." 
The favorite dish of this fast food con­noisseur? "The steakburgers at 'Steak 'n' Shake' are out of this world," said Anderson. 
Because it is a given that you will not get the recommended daily allowance of needed vitamins and minerals by eating Whoppers and Taco Bellgrandes, other off-campus males have been forced to learn how to cook, sometimes with pleasant results. 
When he told his family that he had decided to move off-campus, senior Brendan Maher received The Joy of Cooking as a gift from his mother. 
"My mom gave it to me in jest as a gift, but it has turned into a necessity," said Maher. "And you know what? I enjoy cooking. I really do." 
"Whenever my roommates are com­plaining about what they eat, I'll flip through 'The Joy of Cooking' and whip up something for them," said Maher. "That book has been a godsend." 
Friday, January 14, 1994

page 12 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
Getting a new bed of a liberal minded Pope 
~-~ 
I 
I 
I 
... 
geous brass bed; handed down, if he's inaugurating a new pieceI am momentarily expecting a I was told, from Mother of furniture. 
new bed. If I'm lucky, it's the bed I will die on. The luck Canisius, a Holy Cross nun who How silly I would feel if I must have had it handed down woke up with the audience stillwould be in not dying on a mat­

Father Robert Griffin 
to her, when she was the standing there. "Snow White
tress soiled in sin some cheap one-night stand hotel; or in a 

guardian of faith and morals as and the Seven Dwarfs" has
Bellers lo a Bonefj 9od the Provincial of her never been my favorite movie. nursing home where I would be 
Community. To tell you the truth, I misstaking my turn, playing follow 
the old bed already, It was
the leader with all those other Alas and alack, in these ter­picked out for me by brother

terminal cases who have 

Jesuits was more comfortable.
popped off to eternity from the rible times, brass beds have Viator, CSC, the rector of 
Luckily foe me, he knew I was In a struggle to regain footage, 
become politically incorrect. Stanford when I moved here joking; otherwise, he may have I lock butts with him; as a 30-Only decadents have them, or from PW. Florence, our house­tried to sell me a king sized pound animal, he has the push so I am told by the watchdogs keeper at Stanford, has just same launching pad. 
A bed of my own is not apt to 

four poster that an economy and shove of a bulldozer, and
have cranks on it like a hospital of fashion in Greenwich Village. pointed out that the old bed 
minded admiral could launch he's not always fair, Finally I
bed that the paramedics can With a nod of apology to the was sturdier; and the head­
navies on. Years ago, when I yell, "Sam, you've got a bed of board on it was made from a
decadents in my Christmas card raise or lower when they give 
was a rector of Keenan, the stu­your own, so kindly move ass." list, I must explain that if I heavier piece of oak; sheme an enema. A hospital bed 
dents brought me a queen became decadent, I would be shouldn't have told me; I wouldmust be a very lonely place to sized bed for my birthday; the Moving with the speed of the judged as fatally flawed. have been happier never know­die. 
playing fields at Eton could not slow boat to China, he shoves ing. have been as big. off. Two hours later, he's back 
My church might refuse meThe hired man, coming off 
for another visit; in the mean­
the last rites, if they felt deca­But it reminded me of howthe road to die in a barn after Giving it up when I moved to time, he's been snoozing in the dence had overtaken me in my lovingly brother Vi shopped forapple picking, would have a 
PW, I saw that it sagged on one recently acquired La-z-boy, old age. furniture that would please me,less lonely death. A barn with side I had slept on. The unused though he knows it's off limits My Christian burial could de­and make me feel well-provided animals might make him think side looked unfulfilled; I should to shaggy animals that aren't pend on my falling asleep in the for in Stanford. As a religious of of the manger where the birth 
of Christ monitored by oxen. have rented it out on football brushed every day. Lord, on pillows supported by a the old school, he didn't realize weekends. headboard of oak, as plain as that my tastes could be sybarit­I should have bought a toast­This piece has advanced to Pat Nixon's cloth coat, de­ic.
Even with relatives crowding 

er and a coffee pot and run a the point where I can make it a 
scribed by Tricky Dick in the room hooked up to tubes bed and breakfast service. progress report. The new bed Checkers speech. What has all this to do with
bedsides, dying in a sterile 

However, people would have in now in situ, looking like
sounds more loveless than the This is the fourth time in my the Lonely God? Maybe He will 
talked; and a fellow like me has Dreamland. Darby may have life that I've had a new bed to be listening tonight, and everyChristmas dinner you might eat 
at the diner alone with the to be careful of what the neigh­trouble negotiating the climb break in. This one is the nicest; night, when I kneel down to 
bors would say. up, unless I get him a ladder,
truckers. why shouldn't it be, since it is say:
which I will not do; he will have 
I decided before Christmas the first one I have picked out "Matthew, Mark, Luke, and that I was old enough to have a The bed I'm expecting is a to wait to be invited. Even un­myself? I almost feel that I de­John/fhe bed be blest that I lie bed as big as the one my par­double. I'm tired of singles that made, it is a thing of beauty serve to have an audience to on./Four angels to my bed/FourI can't turn over in more than which should should be a joy applaud the moment when I angels round my headJOne to
ents had when they were 

grown-ups living together as one twice a night without un­forever, if I or it can last that will lay me down to sleep for watch, and one to pray/And two making everything down to the long. to bear my soul away." 
two in one flesh. Going over to the first time on the new 
mattress cover. Simmons.
River Park furniture, I said to A double bed is bed enough Once the bedspread was on, it

the manager: "Show me the But, as it says in the code of Now all I will need to sleepfor a single man and his dog. I should have been in the home the jungle: man is 'born alone, well is a good conscience. May
bed you think priests should 

have if a liberal-minded Pope don't sleep with Darby, but he of kids on a honeymoon. The though not quite; he must die flights of angels sing me to my 
should take over at the likes to visit. Lately, he's been headboard is oaken; I was alone; and if he's a sworn celi­rest, though not soon. taking over the center, leaving tempted to choose brass. One bate, he must sleep alone, even
Vatican." 

me the edge; sleeping among night in Boston, I slept in a gor-
GLOBALIZATION OF WORKFORCE 2000 
By Carol Bellamy, National Director of Peace Corps 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 21 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM • 12:15 PM 
RECEPTION AT THE MORRIS INN 4:00-6:00PM 


Co-Sponsored by Multicultural Executive Council and Student Government 
~---­
Friday, January 14, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
-

Ewing's 42lifts Knicks past Pistons 
Associated Press scored the next four points as Utah. the Knicks finally pulled away. The Suns, playing without in­AUBURN HILLS, Mich. "We weren't making any par­jured All-Stars Charles Barkley 
Committee and its 

The Detroit Pistons knew they ticular effort to get me the ball, (torn knee tendon) and Kevin Subcommittee. 
had a problem matching up it just happened," Ewing said. Johnson (ankle sprain), were 
~acfanlento, Asselllhlyman

with Patrick Ewing. When "A lot of the points were com­led by A.C. Green and Oliver R-Pasadena, who is starting center Olden Polynice ing off offensive rebounds." Miller with 20 points each. But of the Tournament went down with a knee injury. Ewing, whose season-high Phoenix was 0-for-12 on 3­board. told the com-the problem got worse. was 44 points against Cleveland point attempts. 
mi1.tee:sthe problems weren't Ewing eventually was guarded in the second game of the sea­San Antonio took control after .-Rose Bowl's fault. 
by bench-warmers Danny O'­son, came up just four points Danny Ainge tied the game 84­problem arose on the Sullivan and Marcus Liberty. short of Shaquille O'Neal's 84 on a driving, one-handed and not on the inside,"
and he ended up with 42 points Palace of Auburn Hills scoring bank shot with 4:49 left. and 16 rebounds Thursday record set last season. Dennis Rodman, who had 14 Bowl sol 3,000night as the New York Knicks "With O.P. out, it really hurt rebounds and nine poipts, to parade participantsbeat the Pistons 94-80. us when everyone got into foul slapped the ball away from tickets -to UCLA,Ewing got most of the oppos­trouble," Mills said. "There Frank Johnson near midcourt said. The University of ing front-court players into foul were a lot of things we could and into the hands of Dale Ellis, got about 18,000. 
trouble. Sean Elliott and Cadil­have tried against Ewing that who passed back to Rodman for there bas been no lac Anderson fouled out, while the foul trouble wiped out." a dunk that gave the Spurs an the l]niversity of David Wood and Terry Mills fin­Charles Oakley added 16 86-84 advantage. 
tickets were di· ished with five fouls each. points and 16 rebounds for New Miller cut Phoenix's deficit to -goitgt'lrs; but "They were a little over­York, while Thomas led the the 91-86 on a lane jumper with tickets went throughmatched once Polynice went Pistons with 21 points. 2:23 remaining, but San Anto­as far away as At­out," Knicks coach Pat Riley Polynice left the game early in nio outscored Phoenix 16-1 the Canada before find· 

said. "He's dominating right the first quarter with a rest of the way. back to Pasadena now, and we just kept going to sprained medial collateral lig­Phoenix, now 9-5 on the road, 
inflated price. 

him. It helped that Detroit's ament in his left knee. He is was coming off a 95-83 home going to folloW tllis double teams were a little listed as doubtful for Saturday's loss Wednesday night to a ".l>oyl(fsaid slow." rematch at New York. Charlotte team playing without 
his ' opy.

Ewing's fourth-straight 30-"Patrick really hurt us," Pis­injured stars Larry Johnson point game ensured Detroit's ton coach Don Chaney said. and Alonzo Mourning. 11th straight loss. just three "We had our defense struc­The game drew a crowd of short of their March 1980 team tured to have O.P. on him, so 34,027 to the Alamodome, the 
record. when he went out, everything second-largest in the NBA this 
"We're a better team than changed." season. San Antonio's season­this," Sean Elliott said. "We "We played them tough opener against Golden State just can't put an entire game tonight, and now we know what drew 36,523. together." -we can and cannot do against 
New York led 49-41 at the them," Mills said. "That gives Bullets 120 half, and Ewing scored 10 us a big advantage going into Rockets 102 points in the first 3:25 of the New York." third quarter as the Knicks LANDOVER, Md. eventually by as many as 18 in Spurs 107 Don MacLean knows the the period. Suns 88 Washington Bullets' reputation 
But three straight 3-pointers -that they live or die from the by Isiah Thomas started a 13-SAN ANTONIO perimeter and that good teams point run that got the Pistons David Robinson had 27 points play down to the level of the within 6 7-63. Ewing finished and 16 rebounds as the San Atlantic Division's worst team. with 17 points in the quarter, Antonio Spurs beat Phoenix Thursday night, MacLean and 12 assists, and Tom but Lindsey Hunter's last-sec­107-88 Thursday night for their showed he's tired of hearing it. Gugliotta added 16 points, as "MacLean's scoring was never ond jumper made the score 71-ninth victory in 10 games, giv­MacLean not only displayed a Washington won its second anything we've had problems 66 with entering the fourth ing the Suns their first two­nice outside touch, but he also straight game, the first time with," Unseld said. "But we quarter. game losing streak of the sea­muscled inside to finish with 30 since Nov. 20 and 23 the Bullets asked him to do a lot defensive­
"We had a lot of chances to son. points. Rex Chapman scored 27 have posted back-to-hack victo­ly. He was the rotating guy on put this game away. and we The Spurs outscored the Suns for Washington, offsetting Ha­ries. Washington won for just the defense (who had) to run, just didn't do it," Riley said. "I 23-4 in the final 4:49. Robin­keem Olajuwon's 45 for Hous­the seventh time in 16 start. jump and then get back to his thought we had in the third, but son, who hit only 9 of 25 shots ton, as the Bullets surprised the Olajuwon also pulled down 10 man." Isiah got one of his runs going, from the field, scored 12 points Rockets 120-102. rebounds for the Midwest Divi­"It was his defense that sur­and he can close a game up in a in the fourth period to help San "We know we're better than sion-leading Rockets, who are prised me," Thorpe said. "He's hurry." Antonio record its first victory what our record shows right 6-5 since a 22-1 start. Team­a better defensive player than 
The Knicks started the fourth against any of the four front­know," MacLean said. "If we mate Otis Thorpe had 16 points most people give him credit for. 
with a 7-0 run, but still couldn't running Western Conference can knock off some of the better and 11 rebounds. He's getting the minutes this shake the Pistons. With four teams. teams, and get some wins while Bullets coach Wes Unseld was year and showing what he can minutes to play, Detroit was The Spurs were 0-5 against we're at home, we can finish up happy with MacLean's output, do." within six, 83-77. but Ewing Houston, Seattle, Phoenix and the season strong." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  CAMP THUNDERBIRD Camp Counselors Needed  Help! I need a ride to Cleveland,  TOP TEN QUOTES FROM OUR CRAZY "MONTH" IN DALLAS:  Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes  ..  
Resident Summer Camp  Ohio (or all the way to Erie, Pa. if  iMMACULATE 3 BDRM CAPECOD  Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free  
USED TEXTBOOKS  for Developmentally Disabled  you are going that far) the weekend  4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  10 Hellooo Dallas!  Parties! Hurry! This will sell out!  
Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard  Children & Adults.  of Jan. 28. Very friendly, $$ for  BULLA RD.$64,500.272-6306  9 I'd get naked, strap myself to  1-800-678-6386  
' 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun  gas, tolls, etc. Call Brian x3043  the Crown Vic, and drive through  
June 18-Aug 26  Dallas for George Strait tickets.  
If you parked in the Bookstore Lot  '80 FORD, runs good $575; bike  8 l...fall...to ... pieces ...  Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica!  
on Tuesday or Wednesday and  Orlando, FL area  $30; large coach $30. 271-8262  7 I feel like a bUm!  Fly out of Chicago and spend 8  
felt something go bump in the night (or day) near a beige Toyota  1-407-889-8088  FOR RENT  6 Just walk away... 5 Peter and Pete-treecia  days on the beach! We have the best trips & prices! Includes air &  
Camry, you caused $500.00 in  4 He's only 41"tall? Yeah, but he  hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­ 
damage. If you would like to talk  SPRING BREAK CANCUN  sure is quick!  678-6386  
about it, please call631-5587  SUMMER CAMP JOBS in the  Best pkg around.CollegeTours  3 She's small. but she's  
(day) or 234-3927 (evening).  Northeast. For a free list send a  econ.&lux. trips Can find extras  tough ... Jane!  
stamped ($.52) self·addressed  NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225.  if needed ~all reps 4 fliers &  2 Hoops in the alley  
ILOST&FOUNDI  envelope to Camps, 1785 Redcoat, Maryland Hgts, MO 63043  MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306  prices X232-7109  1 Don't forget • next time we'll hit the beach!  Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days oceanview room with kitchen $119!  
Walk to best bars! Includes free dis- 
FOUND:  SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6  Thanks y'all -we had a great time!  count card -save $50 on cover  
Set of keys with red State Farm  BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3  Love, J.O. and S.K.  charges! 1-800-678-6386  
symbol. Found next to Univ.  PROMOTE our SPRINGBREAK  BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES  KENMORE FRIDGE 2.5 cubic ft.  
Village. Ph.# 631-5748  packages with our posters and fly- WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306  Active warranty. 634-4902  
ers, or SIGNUP NOW for spring·  Mature graduate student would  Florida's New Spring Break  
WANTED  break rooms. Daytona, Panama, Padre, Cancun, etc. $129 up. Call CMI 1-800-423-5264  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  PERSONAL  like to do occasional babysitting. Phone Angela 634-3227.  hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key West! More upscale than Panama City/Daytona! Great beaches &  

CRUISE SHIPS HIRING-Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1·206-634-0468 ext. C5584 $700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. deckhands. Alaska summer fish­aries now hiring. Employment Alaska 1-206-323-2672 SECURI1Y SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595 
FOR SALE 
Student Activities is hiring office assistants-to apply, stop by 315 LaFortune by Monday, Jan. 17. 
CLUBS THAT RESERVED TABLES FOR FOOTBALL CON­CESSION STANDS MUST PICK UP DEPOSITS BY FRIDAY, JAN. 141N THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. 
nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa Beachfront Resort $159! Key West $249! 1-800-678-6386 
there's a bear right behind me! Thanks for the ride ... for every­thing. 10-4 Good Buddy!!! 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
-Another ACC upset: Childress' late 3-pointer topples No. 2 Duke 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. 
Randolph Childress' 3-pointer with 11 seconds left gave Wake Forest a 69-68 victory over No. 2 Duke on Thursday night. 
The shot by Childress, who finished with 24 points, was clearly a 3-pointer, but the Cameron Indoor Stadium score­board didn't record it that way and the closest official did not signal it was a 3-pointer. 
Grant Hill, Duke's star down the stretch with 23 points, drove the length of the floor and put up a 15-foot jumper in the closing seconds, but the ball bounced off the rim, off the hands of teammate Chris Collins and out of bounds as the clock ran out. 
Thfl Wake Forest players stormed the court in jubilation as the Duke players seemed confused about the ending and coach Mike Krzyzewski went to the scorer's table looking for an explanation. 
It was the second straight sea­son the Demon Deacons (11-3, 2-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) upset the Blue Devils (10-1, 2­
1) at home. 
The 6-foot Childress, who leads the ACC in scoring, missed a layup and 3-pointer that could have given Wake Forest the lead in the closing moments. He made the winning shot over Hill, who is six inches taller. 
Duke, which blew a 12-point first-half lead, was in line to be­come the nation's top-ranked team after No. 1 North Carolina lost by 20 points Wednesday night to No. 17 Georgia Tech. But the Blue Devils turned the ball over two times in the final 
2:22 in losing for the first time this season. 
Charlie Harrison tied his sea­
son high with 16 points for 
Wake Forest. 
After trailing by seven points 
at halftime, Wake Forest start­
ed the second period with a 13­
4 run to take the lead at 43-41 
with 14:38 left. 
From that point, neither team led by more than five points. 

The lead changed hands nine times in the opening six min­utes before the Blue Devils gradually began to pull away. 
A key play in the first half oc­curred with 6:28 left when Wake Forest's Trelonnie Owens was called for a foul as he fought for a loose ball. The senior forward, who scored seven of his team's first nine points, also was hit with a tech­nical foul after the play when he threw the ball into the floor and it bounced 25 feet in the air. 
Four minutes later, Owens, Wake Forest's best inside play­er, picked up his third foul and headed to the bench as Duke pushed its lead to 37-25. 
Wake Forest closed to 37-30 at halftime on a 3-pointer and twisting layup by Harrison in 
the final1:07. 
No. 7 MASSACHUSETTS 70 
No. 23 WEST VIRGINIA 56 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. 

Life on the road is getting pretty comfortable for Mas­sachusetts coach John Calipari and his seventh-ranked Min­utemen. 
A 70-56 victory over No. 23 West Virginia on Thursday night gave Massachusetts its ninth road win in 10 games and sole possession of first place in the Atlantic 10. 
"We seem over the last couple 

of years to play better on the road than we_ do in our home gym," Calipari said. "We've shot a higher percentage on the road than we do at home. We've been on the road so much, (home is) like a foreign court to us." 
The crowd of 11,148 stayed unusually quiet throughout the game except for a couple of short runs by West Virginia and perhaps cheered loudest when "Gilligan's Island" star Bob Denver made a halftime appearance. 
"We made a statment tonight," said Massachusetts guard Derek Kellogg, who scored 13 points. "When they scored a couple of baskets in a row, we went to our money guys. This was the type of game that took the crowd out." 
Massachusetts (12-1, 4-0) led the entire game after a 6-6 tie and never saw its lead fall be­low 10 in the second half after holding a 35-22 halftime lead. 
It was the Minutemen's ninth 

straight victory and ended a 
nine-gallle winning streak for 
the Mountaineers. It was West 
Virginia's worst home loss 
since 1979-80 when Ohio State 
beat the Mountaineers 72-55. 

West Virginia (9-2, 3-1) played poorly in the first half, shooting just 27 percent from the field and turning the ball over nine times. The Mountaineers could do little more than exchange baskets with the Minutemen in the second half. 
Happy 2Qth Birthday Willie! 
I Love You, Jess 


did you sign up for 
Com~ties 
'('('('('('('('( 

REMEMBER ... IT ALL BEGINS WITH 
the rally day!! 
(tMPUS 
-

... 
MINISTRY 

Saturday, January 15 
11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Lafortune Ballroom lunch will be served 
/:Jf: thf:rt: . . . . 




COMPLETE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH STEAMBOAT LAS VEGAS VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANG ISLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 



* PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION I BREAK DATES I LENGTH OF STAY. 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION &RESERVATIONS 
I• BOO •SUNCHASE 

The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Jordan: Spring training plans 'no fantasy' 
Heisman Trophy winner Charlie Ward, who led Florida State's footbflll team to the na-' ¥'!:j;.:;'·;;;;;~(.}~it}l tional championship, no .. ·, hopes to help turn the Semi-·· noles' basketball team around. 
Ward will make his 1994 bas­ketball debut,S:~d~Y at North Carolina State. ' ·· · . "I can't tur:ti iJi cdmplete' te~ 
around like a Michael Jordan," ...... ... .. .. isn Ward said Thursday in a tele->iskillsbeing rusty d.esJtjte phone conference call. "I can layof, only do my job to help my team win. We'll try to do it together." ,1• 
The Seminoles have gotten off to a disastrouS 'Start in · ·· Coast Conference play, losing three straight games by an av­erage of 17 points while shoot­ing only 40 perc~nt and com­mitting 61 turnove)'s. 
''We have room to improve and I think we're going to do that," Ward said~·![';... _;;r; 
Ward provides most.~f wha coach Pat Kennedy needs now: leadership, dependable ball handling and defensive pres­sure. two seasons on the 
''Charlie solves all three of fi~ldi where he those problems for us," said .. S:~W.~nples to 22 Kennedy, who a year ago ;;·g#~~ amftheir played Ward for 43 minutes in title, But he is . an overtime win at Wake For-on some individual bat'>keiliaLll est in just his second game marks. 
MRS. DOUBTFIRE 
Sat, Sun & Mon: 1:30,4:15, 7f5, 9:45! Dally: 4:15, 7:15, 9:45 PG-13 
12:15, 2:30, 5:00,7:30,9:45 
RUMPY OLD MEN 
JACK LEMMON IPG.l3l 
WALTER MATTHAU 
1:15, 4:15, 6:45, 9:00 
TRM_B_S~T O-NE 
Kurt ltussell ~ 
. 2:45, 5:15, 7:45, 10:15 
HAPPY 
2QTH 
MICHELLE 
LOVE YA, 
DAD, MOM, MICHAEL &BOOMER 
'JJtEtl
.BEFIUi 
ONPOPCOR/11.1 ORIMCS• 
KEVIN BACON THE AIR UP THERE 

CHARLES GRODIN 
BeetOOven's 2rxl [fQ] 
:00, 3:00, 5:15, 7:15, 9:15 
1 :30, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 IPl; ul 
HE 

PELICAN BRIEF 
JULIA ROBERTS IPG.13I ' 12:30, 4:00, 7:00,10:00 
Now FREE REFILL on Popcorn (I Soft Drinks! 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Michael Jordan isn't kidding. He's been working out at Comiskey Park this winter ­and not just to stay in shape or fight boredom. 
Jordan, craving a new chal­lenge just months after retiring from the Chicago Bulls, thinks he's found one. He wants to play baseball with the Chicago White Sox. 
He insists this is no mid-life crisis or fantasy yearning. He certainly doesn't need the money, and offered to pay his own way to spring training. 
"I want to go to spring train­ing for one reason and that's to make the team," Jordan was quoted as saying in Thursday's editions of the Chicago Tribune. "This is no fantasy. I plan to be in Sarasota by mid-February. If the White Sox were to tell me that they didn't think I was good enough to make the team, and that they don't want me at spring training, then I would accept their wishes and not go." 
Jordan said if he keeps improving during his three­hour, five-day-a-week work­outs, he thinks he can make the team even though he hasn't played baseball regularly since he was a teen-ager in Wilmington, N.C. 
White Sox general manager Ron Schueler said Thursday 
Davie 
continued from page 20 
line) and Tony Yelovich (recruiting coordinator). 
Davie worked with Moore at Pittsburgh in 1977 and again from 1980-82. Yelovich was on the staff with Davie at Arizona and at Tulane in 1983. 
"They are two guys I had worked with before. When I talked with people about the move those are two I certainly spoke with," said Davie. "Their advice made me very comfort­able coming to Notre Dame." 
Davie said his decision to leave A&M had nothing to do with the NCAA's ruling last week which put the Aggies on five years probation for viola-that the likelihood of Jordan making the team this season "is at best a long shot." 
He said a decision will be made next month on whether to offer him the invitation to spring training. White Sox pitchers and catchers report Feb. 16 and the position play­ers five days later. 
Schueler said it would have to be a situation where Jordan could help the White Sox or "it wouldn't be fair to both sides ... " 
Schueler wonders whether Jordan will made the adjust­ment to live pitching, not the kind you get in a batting cage or from a batting practice pitcher. 
"There's a lot of difference between 70 mph and 90 mph," said Schueler, 40-48 in eight major league seasons. 
Schueler finally learned Wednesday that Jordan was serious about coming to spring training. 
"I heard some of the com­ments from some of the other players that he has good bat speed and obviously good hand and eye coordination.. I think that pumped Michael up. We have to wait and see, it's way too early," Schueler said. 
Jordan has been joined recently at the workouts by sev­eral White Sox players. The White Sox have a vacancy in right field after Ellis Burks 
tions in a summer job program for athletes. 
"Actually it had the opposite effect," he said. "I didn't want it to look like I was leaving be­cause of that. I have some loy­alty to Texas A&M, and I didn't want it to appear as if I didn't appreciate my time there." 
The opportunity to work with Holtz was the most enticing as­pect of the job for Davie, even though the Irish coach can be a difficult boss. 
"Lou Holtz has a reputation of being a demanding coach. Anyone you talk to will tell you he demands a lot of his players and coaches," he said. "But I know exactly what I'm getting into. Both he and I want a great defense and most impor­tantly to win." 
''$~'' 
YOUR 
with every ,....... tanning package ~ purchase 
GET FREE TANNING! 
FOR A LIMITED TIME (WITH THIS AD) 
Expires 1/28/94 
FOR DETAILS 
CALL 271-7653 
University X>mmons State Road 23, South Bend. IN 
signed with the Colorado Rockies. Schueler said he has no problems with Jordan's arm. 
"He does have a good loose arm but I haven't seen it from the outfield," he said. 
The appearance of Jordan would create a circus atmos­phere much larger than the one last spring, when Bo Jackson was making a comeback from hip replacement surgery. 
"I talked to Frank Thomas and Jack McDowell and Robin Ventura and gave them my stand," Schueler said. "I don't want to take anything away from them. Everything they earned, they deserved. I think the first day there would be tremendous media but then we would put an end to it and set­tle it down to play baseball." 
Jordan retired from the Bulls on Oct. 6, upstaging the White Sox as they played the Toronto Blue Jays in Game 1 of the AL playoffs. 
''I'm serious. My father thought I could be a major­league baseball player, and I'm sure that right now he can see me trying," Jordan said. "He's watching every move that I make." 
Jordan's father, James, was slain last August. 
When he retired, Jordan said he wanted more time with his family and less in the limelight. But he noted Wednesday that baseball teams often spend four or five days in one city. 
Davie's defenses at A&M had a reputation for being gam­bling, stunting units. While with the Aggies he coached All­Americans William Thomas, Aaron Wallace, Jerry Robinson, Marcus Buckley arid Quentin Coryatt. 
"Sometimes people put to much emphasis on schemes," said Davie. "I can promise that people will see an aggressive defense that plays hard." 
Davie will begin visiting high school recruits on Monday, and he feels that he has quite a product to sell in Notre Dame. 
"Recruits can come to Notre Dame and into a new scheme and a new focus. Young players want a chance to play. I'm not coming in with any perceptions 
..

about the returning players." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Don't Drink 
And 
Drive 


4-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers 
Call Laurie McKelvey 287-4989 
page 16 

-Money may have been the motive in Kerrigan attack 
By JIM LITKE 
Associated Press 
No romance novel, no made­for-TV movie ever told a more salacious tale: 
Hard hearts, hit men. The most glamorous of backdrops. the very highest levels of com­petition. A plot so bold, so raw, it staggers the imagination. 
While the real story behind the attack on Olympic figure skater Nancy Kerrigan unfolds, think about this: No matter how many of the bizarre details reaching deep into the camp of rival Tonya Harding turn out to be true, the motive will almost certainly be a dreary and all­too-familiar one: 
Money. 
With an Olympic gold medal worth as much as $30 million, perhaps it was only a matter of time before the figures that skaters and their ever-larger retinues began focusing on were not simply those carved in ice. 
The irony in the current al­leged plot -assuming authori­ties can put all the pieces to­gether -is that the people who may have thought they were guaranteeing Harding's success may have only guaranteed her failure. 
"She isn't under the cloud yet, but if the scenario making the rounds is true, or even close, it's doubtful any advertiser would touch her," said Brian Dubin, a vice president with the William Morris talent agency who represents, among other clients, Olympic champion Peggy Fleming. 
"Of course, there are some advertisers out there who are clever or bold enough to play 
ofT the notoriety." Asked to name one, Dubin does not hesitate. "How about 'No Excuse' jeans?" 
But this is not a laughing mat­ter, especially to Dubin, whose livelihood depends on selling athletes to America. 
"Of all the skaters I've known, I've never met one that I could truthfully say got into it for the rewards. 
"All of them started at an age where they went into it because they loved it -the sport, the art, the thrill -or because they were too good at it to ignore it," he said. 
But when asked whether that drive could change at some point in a flourishing career, whether that fierce eyes-on­the-prize visage flashed in com­petition could be a glimpse of something darker and more desperate, Dubin paused. He is careful not to be too specific. 
"The skating world is rather small," he said, "and between the coaches and former Olympians that people come in contact with, they probably get a very good idea very early on what they could be worth. For the right person, there's not only commercial endorsements, there's licensing fees, infomer­cials, book publishing, TV spe­cials, ice skating shows. I could go on. 
"But how much that becomes their motivation, after a certain age, depends on the person and their character. It depends on their upbringing and family life. 
"And," Dubin said, "it may depend more than anything else on what is driving the par­ents or whoever it is behind the skater themselves." 
ALL VOTED: 
1
. Florida State 

2. 
Notre Dame 


1. Florida State 
2. Neb 3. NO 4. Flo 2.Neb 3. NO 4.Aub 
· 2. Neb 3. NO 4. Aub 2.Neb 3. NO 4. Aub 2. Neb 3. NO 4.Aub 
2. Neb 3. NO 4. Flo 2. Neb 3.NO 4.Aub 2. Neb 3.Aub 4. NO 2. Neb 3. NO 4.Aub 2.Neb 3. NO 4.Aub 2. Neb 3. NO 4.Aub 2.Aub 3. NO 4. Neb 2.Aub 3. NO 4.Neb 2.Neb 3. Flo 4. NO 2. Neb 3. NO 4.Aub 2.Neb 3. NO 4. Aub 
2. Neb 3. NO 4. Aub 

--~----------~~--­
NOTRE DAME HIGHER THAN FLORIDA STATE... 
Harold Bechard, Salina (Kan.) Journal Kirk Bahls, Austin (Texas) American Statesman Jimmy Burch, Fort Worth (Texas) Star Telegram Randy Ford, WBNS-AM, Westerville, Ohio Mike Hlas, Cedar Rapids (Iowa) Gazette Bob Hudson, The Daily Herald, Provo, Utah Ect Johnson, Albuquerque Journal Chris Long, South Bay (Calif.) Dally Breeze Jack Moss, Kalamazoo (Mich.) Gazette John Robinson, Deseret News, Salt Lake City Ed Sherman, Chicago Tribune Jim Steinmiller, The News and Advance, Lynchburg, Va 
BOTH VOTED: 
1. 
Auburn 

2. 
Notre Dame 

3. 
Florida State 

4. 
Nebraska 


FLORIDA STATE HIGHER THAN NOTRE DAME ... 
John Adams. Knoxville (Tenn.), News-Sentinel 
J.A. Adande, Chicago Sun-Times David Alfonso, Tampa (Fla.) Tribune Tony Barnhart, Atlanta Journal Constitution Mark Blaudschun, Boston Globe Greg Bartolin, Las Vegas Review Journal Bruce Brown, The Lafayette (La.), Advertiser Ron Christ, Harrisburg (Pa.) Patriot News Jim Cnockaert, Ann Arbor (Mich.) News Beano Cook, ESPN Frank Dascenzo, Herald-Sun, Durham, N.C.) Barrie Dawson, Bridgewater (N.J.) Courier Tim Doherty, Hattiesburg (Miss.) American Jeff Faraudo, Alameda Group, Pleasanton. Calif. John Fay, The Cincinnati Enquirer 
Elton Alexander, The Plain Dealer, Cleveland 
B.G. Brooks, Rocky Mountain News. Denver John Clay, Lexington (Ky.) Herald-Leader Bob Griese, ABC-TV Ken Hambleton, Lincoln (Neb.) Journal-Star Bob Hammel, Bloomington (Ind.) Herald-Times Bob Hersom, The Daily Oklahoman, Okla. City Michael Hunt, Milwaukee Sentinel Blair Kerkhoff, Kansas City Star Bill Kwon, Honolulu Star-Bulletin Ivan Maisel, Dallas Morning News Bob Moran, Mesa (Ariz.) Tribune Gary Nelson, Everett (Wash.) Herald John Perrotto, Beaver County (Pa.) Times Jon Roe, Minneapolis Star Tribune Ralph Routon, Colo. Springs Gazette Telegraph Mark Soltau, San Francisco Examiner 
Brett Friedlander, Annapolis (Md.) Capital David Goren, WXII-TV, Winston-Salem, N.C. Dave Hackenberg, The Toledo (Ohio) Blade Bob Hammond, Laramie (Wyo.) Boomerang Joey Holliman, The Columbia (S.C.) State Ron Lemasters, Muncie (Ind.) Star Nebraska Steve Phillips, WKRN-TV, Nashville, Tenn. Dave Poe, Parkersburg (W.Va.) News Scott Rabalais, The Advocate, Baton Rouge, La. Doug Segrest, Birmingham (Ala.) News Tom Spousta, Sarasota (Fla.) Herald-Tribune Donnie Webb, Syracuse (NY) Post Don Whitten, Oxford (Miss.) Eagle Jerry 
Wizig, Houston Chronicle Gene Wojciechowski, Los Angeles Times ALL VOTERS WHO RANKED NOTRE DAME LOWER THAN SECOND 
Charlie Smith, Tulsa (Okla.) World 

BOTH VOTED: 
1. 
Auburn 


2. 
Florida State Clark: Smith: 

3. 
Neb 3. ND 


4. ND 4. Neb 
Observer graphic: Brendan Regan 


HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY EMMA 
.. 
Love from Mom and Dad, ]tll, Ntck, ]ody, Chris, Chloe, Ntco, Cookte and Grampa. 

Hoops 
continued from page 20 
in December. the best since Muffet McGraw began as head coach of the Irish. 
The team's success has been 
due to the consistent play of the 
five starters and the incredible

.. 
bench support that they have received. 
Freshman Beth Morgan has been a leader for Notre Dame all season. 
The forward has been the Irish high scorer five times, including her 22-point perfor­mance against DePaul Tuesday night. 
To secure a victory, however, the Irish will need to rely on the inside play of Letitia Bowen and Tootie Jones, who account­ed for nearly half of the team's total rebounds Tuesday night. 
They will have to deal with the play of LaSalle forward Mary Heller, a returning starter who ranked third last year in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference in rebounds and blocked shots. The Explorers will be a team featuring five first year players, three from the same high school . 
Led by Chrissie Donahue, Marnie McBreen, and Ann Gallagher, this crew has grown in experience over the first two months of this season and could prove to be the main fac­tor if LaSalle hopes to win Saturday. 
Five freshman, however, may not be the remedy for LaSalle when they face a red-hot, determined, and hungry Irish team tomorrow. 

RROT TOP 
The College Campus Entertainer and Con1edian of the Year 

Returns to Campus! 
Monday, January 31, 1994 Washington Hall 
8:00prn 
Ticket Info: Students: $6 on sale January 14th General Public: $10 on sale January 25th at the LaFortune [nfo d'.:sk. 



page 17 The Observer. SPORTS Friday, January 14, 1994 
-

Saint Mary's athletes hope to shake winter break blues 
Hoops hoping for a better second half 
By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI Sports Writer 
While Christmas break may have taken its toll on the Saint Mary's basketball team, the Belles' have been practicing hard since their return and are hopeful for a victory against Beliot College tomorrow at 3 p.m.at Angela. 
"Not being here has hurt the team," said forward, Lori Gad­dis, "but we've been working hard in practice to get back in shape. We're in sync now." 
The Belles' were off to a rocky start after the break when they lost to the University of Chicago Tuesday night. Despite shoot­
1 Wi"l"n~ss~ct 
~e; i~ ''~'')' m~ i :1 
\~e ~~~~ o' ~e •93 National Chumps HEY FIGHTING IRISH FANS: Are you still mystified over the extraordinary means taken to invent this year's national champion? This is your best opportunity to show the voters and the rest of the counrty that you don't appreciate the obvious lack of respect and bias toward the Notre Dame Football Program. This attractive 11111" x 3" maroon & yellow sticker says it all. Send a check or money order for only $3.95 to: 
T~AM COMP~T~T~V~ ~V~NTS 
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL HALF COURT 3 0 KETBALL-MEN'S HALF COURT 3 BALL-WOMEN'S 
ing 48 percent, the Saint Mary's defense could not stop Chicago from a win. 
In preparation for Beloit's tough front line, the Belles have been working on their defense . 
"We've been working on the man to man coverage," said Gladdis. "With the experience from last game we are looking to get a win." 
Although Saint Mary's bas­ketball team has been domi­nated this season in size and experience, coach Marv Wood remains hopeful. "Our team has played hard and exteremly well recently," explained Wood. "We're going to be good." 
BASKETBAU 

1/15 Beloit College 1/18 @ Univ. of Chicago 1/22 @ Anderson Univ. 1/24 Olivet College 1/27 Bethel College 1/29 @ DePauw College 2/05 Carroll College 2/09 Calvin College 
.·. 2/11 @ St. Francis College .•• 2/15 @ Goshen College 
• 2/17 Concordia Univ. 
•· 
2/19 @ Kalamazoo College 

•· 
2/22 @ Manchester College .• 2/26 Franklin College 


SWIMMING AND DIVING 
1/15 Calvin College 1/22 @ Hillsdale College 1 /26 Kalamazoo College 1/29 Univ. of Chicago 2/05 @ Lake Forest College 2/17-@ Liberal Arts Invitational 2/19 @ DePauw Univ. 
LATE NIGHT 
OLYMPICS 
Belles' swimmers remain spirited despite injuries and rigorous training sessions 
By MARY GOOD Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
After more than a week of rig­orous training, the Saint Mary's swim team is feeling sore but solid, spirited and psyched for their first home meet of the season Saturday against Calvin College. 
The Belles returned from semester break a week early and traveled to Indianapolis where they underwent intense training sessions to prepare themselves for the six remain­ing meets of their regular sea­son. 
"Break gives the swimmers a chance to get a couple of weeks of rest, but it also gets them out of swimming mode," Janson said. "Since swimming is not a gravity based sport, after being out of the water for a while, it takes a few days to get back into it." 
Coming off of last week's training camp, the team is tired, sore, tight, and slightly injured, Janson commented. He is expecting it to take an­other week or week and a half before the team is feeling great. 
"Our injuries are not a com­plete setback," junior Tara Krull said. "We should all do a good job and it will be nice to swim in our own pool." 
"After the winter train in Indy where we worked hard and pushed our limits, we are ex­cited to see our times," senior captain Ellen Kramer said. 
Despite these minor setbacks in technique, the team is get­ting back into form mentally and coming together as a team. 
"We want to do well for the team as well as ourselves," Kramer commented. 
"The team is excited about swimming in their own pool," Janson said. "I am confident we will swim well and swim­ming even better is not out of the question." 
The Belles are hoping to im­prove their 1-1 dual meet record this weekend. A win for Saint Mary's would also con­tinue a four year winning streak against Calvin. 
Janson is looking to four team members who have looked es­pecially good in practice to lead the team to victory. Expected to shine are breaststroker, Jen Mitchell, sprint free-styler, Kramer, butterfly specialist, Krull and backstroker, Katie Rose. 
Kramer will also make her 
debut Saturday in the 200 me­
ter breaststroke. 
"This meet is the first step to the rest of our season," Janson said. 
"We are sore because we have 
been swimming so much and so 
hard, but I think we'll swim 
through it," Kramer added. 
"Saturday's results will give us a good picture of where we are in the season and what we need to do," Janson said. 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
up the level of play. 
"We're ready to play old-fash­ioned hockey," Osiecki suc­cinctly noted. 
Although it won't be easy, Notre Dame needs to add a few points this weekend to climb back into the conference race. .­
Since it is a weekend and early in the semester, the team is expecting a large turnout of students for the 7 p.m. faceoffs. 
"We need to turn our game around, so we may as well start against two great teams," said Ling. 


CHICAGO TANS gives you the BEST TAN FOR YOUR MONEY! 
BUY4 I BUYS IBUY 6 
GET 4 T GE.U TGET 6 
FREE! 
Get The Idea?
'·--·1 

page 18 Friday, January 14, 1994 
-
Hurley vows to 
return to court 
By KATHLEEN GRUBB!: 
Associated Press 

.. 
Key stretch begins against Duquesne 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
It's a team without an identity, at least not a positive one. 
"If we have a label, it's that we're mistake prone," Notre Dame men's basketball coach John MacLeod said after Wednesday's win over No. 25 Missouri. "That's not how we want to be known." 
That's not a stamp that is eas­ily removed, but the Irish took a major step in the right direc tion against Missouri. As the midway point of the 1993-94 season approaches the Irish are a respectable 5-7 against what the NCAA Division I computer rankings list as the second toughest schedule in the nation. 
A four-game stretch lies ahead that may be the easiest of the season. 
And maybe the most impor­tant. It begins Saturday at Duquesne, a team that defeated Notre Dame in a triple overtime affair a year ago. 
The stretch continues on the road against St. Bonaventure Wednesday before the Irish return home next weekend to face Manhattan and Loyola. 
Those are four games the Irish are very capable of win­ning. If they hope to reach their goal of an NCAA Tourna­ment appearance, they are must wins. 
"We realized that if we we're going to make the NCAA Tour­nament, (Missouri) was a must
The Observer/John Bingham 

win," sophomore guard Ryan
John Macleod hopes to watch his team win again Saturday. 
Hoover said. 
What the Irish did in winning that game was make every game a must win. A loss and they could have thrown the season away. 
The win changed the com­plexion. 
"It has taken a while to get together as a team," MacLeod said. "We have been struggling, but they haven't given up and that's encouraging." 
Wednesday's win was prob­ably the best total team effort of the season. Production from the backcourt, including a 25­point performance from Hoover took much of the burden off of Williams, who finished with 19. W.ith Boyer and freshman Admore White splitting time at point guard, and Hoover and sophomore Keith Kurowski fill­ing in at shooting guard, the Irish offense clicked as well as it has all season. 
"We had 23 turnovers and that's a heck of a lot better than 30 or 35," MacLeod said, referring to Notre Dame's recent turnover troubles. 
If the Irish revert back to their old ways, Saturday's game may turn out to be as disappointing as last year's 80-76 loss to the Dukes. 
But if the Irish continue to play as well as they played against Missouri, it could be the start of a very important swing for the Irish. 
"The greatest thing about this is that everybody contributed, it was truly a team effort," Williams said after the Missouri game. 

Fencers start tough slate at Northwestern 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
After going undefeated in their first two warm-up meets last November, the Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams swing back into action this weekend as the regular season opens at Northwestern. 
When the No. 7 Irish travel to Evanston this Saturday they will be facing such teams as Cal State-Long Beach, UC-San Diego, and James Madison. 
These teams only begin to compromise what looks to be the fencing team's toughest schedule in ten years. With teams such as the last two NCAA champions, Columbia and Penn State, and perennial powerhouses Princeton, Ohio State, and Wayne State on tap, the Irish will have its hands full this season. 
But head coach Mike DeCicco feels confident heading into the Northwestern meet and says the team has moved toward a goal for the 1994 campaign. 
"Our first goal is to try to at­tain an undefeated season against this competition," said DeCicco. "We have had some very nice practices and every­one is ready to make their push towards the March run." 
The run coach DeCicco speaks of includes fencing every week­end up until the NCAA champi­onships in mid-March. During this run DeCicco looks for cer­tain leadership from some of the fencers in order to attain the team goal of an undefeated season. 
At men's foil juniors Stan Brunner and Conor Power can make a difference at the NCAA level. Freshman Bill Lester will provide leadership at sabre while seniors Greg Wozniak and Rian Girard will give DeCi­cco an idea of where the epee team is headed. 
On the woman's side, DeCicco looks to sophomore Maria Panyi who could lift women's foil to a national level. 

As for the two November meets, the Irish dominated their own Fall Fencing Festival by sweeping to a 5-0 victory in men's competition and wom­en's foil and a 2-1 decision in women's epee in their first meet ever. 
The team then traveled to Chicago for an invitational 
which saw a new format and a victory by the A-team 25-24 over Northwestern as Bill Lester won at sabre on the last touch of the competition. 
"Those early meets gave us a benchmark of where we are and where we need to go to have a successful year," added DeCicco. 

The Department of Music Presents 
A FACULTY CONCERT 
Carolyn Plummer, violinist William Cerny, pianist 
MUSIC OF 


CORELU/l<REISLER, DVORAK, MOZART/KREISLER, & MENDELSSOHN 
Sunday January 16, 1994 2:00p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 

The concert is free and open to the public 
Happy 2Qth Birthday Stephanie! 

Love, Mom, Dad & Justin Happy Birthday Lyons! We always knew you were too cute to be straight! 

Friday, January 14, 1994 
SPELUNKER 

IF SOMET\-1\NG B\JGS 1\\EM, T\-\'C'{ 1'\t.\Jt.R LE.T <;o Of If-' lt\Ei ..lUST r::JJ ON 1\1-\Q ON, LONG t>..8tR Al'\'{O~t. t.L'St: IS 1!'-I~I<'ESTt:l) .' rrs j<JS\ COIA.PLMN, COMPLAIN, CW.PLMW P'EOPt£ Wl-lo GRII't: 1\t.L 11-\£ TIME Rrn.L~ \) \II \'.\£ 1'\IJ\S.' 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 JAY HOSLER 

-
BILL WATTERSON 

'{o\)'D TI-\INK TI-\EfO C\-\11-NIOE 1\-\E S\.lE.lECT .A.ffiR f.. 'fl\-l\LE, BUT T\\1:'1 l'\E'l£R 00.' i\-\E'{ j\lST ·KEEl' GRIPING U~Til ~QlJ ST~RT Tel W0t-II)£R,'.W\\~J's WRO~G WIT\\ 
TI-llS \\)lOT?" 6\JT ll-IE'( GO ON CO~I'LMNING AND RE\"81.1\NG W\-\11-T TI-\E'fiJ£ "-I..REAO~ Sl\10.' 
"This just makes me sick!·--Sick!··-Why, in my day, we collected wild heads from the jungle! ... These things are all sissies!" 
~ 




50 Alpha's opposite 52 Unified 54 Profit by 57 Andrew Lloyd 
Webber song, with "The" 60Astound 61 Chisholm, e.g. 62 Tense 63 1/17/94 honoree 64 First-year law school class 65 "Rule, Britannia" composer 
DOWN 
1 Highest point 2 "Pygmalion" author 3 Beatles 
recording 4Goof 5 Tried to save a 
sinking ship? 6 Steinbrenner, to the Yankees 7Wise seasoning? 8 Search (through) 9From-Z 
11 "Mary Poppins" tune, with "A" 12 Take's partner 13 Golfers' gadgets 18 River in Belgium 19 Revolted 24 "Aquarius" musical 

39 Like Nash's 51 Conductor ulama" Riccardo 52 60's hair style 
45 Juries 53 Asterisk
46 Nothing: Fr. 
ssAvoid 

48 Ripening 
s& Cigar ending 49 Like a pitcher's 58 Giant Mel perfect game 
59"Make­so Siberian city double" 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
ACROSS 
t 1975 Wimbledon champ 
5-nova 10 High-ranking NCO 14 Oscar winner for 
"Moonstruck" 
15 Sit up for 
16 Ron Howard TV role 
17 Irving Berlin song 20 Woolgatherer? 21 Winter forecast 22 Sioux Indians 23"GimmeaG 
••• , 11 e.g. 
25 Org. 26Word in Amtrak's slogan 
28 N.H.L. legend 
Gordie 30 Wide's partner 33 "La Boheme" 
role 34 Louisiana inlet 35 One in France 36 Andrews Sisters 
hit 40 Speaker's pauses 41 Writer Cecil of "The Straight 
Dope" 42-me tangere 43 Q followers 44 Strength, in 
Variety talk 45 Favor 47 Confused 
thoughts 49 Secretaries may file these 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

25 Gone, but not forgotten? 26 Dinosaur DNA 
preserver 27 Coffin stands 28lnjures 29Courtcry 31 "Twisted" body 
part 32 Broadcast anew 34 Boast 37 "The Human 
Comedy" author 38 "Zip--Doo­Dah" 


welcome back from 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
-
SPORTS 

Friday, January 14, 1994 

Texas A&M's Davie accepts defensive coordinator post 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN who took the head coaching job nator four years later. He Sports Editor at Connecticut. added the role of assistant head Holtz received permission coach in 1993. 
Two weeks after trying to stop · from Texas A&M head coach ''I'm proud of what we ac­Notre Dame in the Cotton Bowl, R.C. Slocum to talk to Davie two complished with the 'Wrecking Texas A&M defensive coordina­days after the Cotton Bowl. Crew' but it's time for me to see tor Bob Davie was named the Holtz called him at home on if I can accompl~sh something newest assistant coach for the Monday and invited him to visit like that at another place." said Irish. the campus. Davie. 
Davie replaces Rick Minter After a meeting with the Davie previously spent two who left after two seasons to coaching staff and a tour of the years as assistant head coach assume the head coaching spot campus Davie decided to join and defensive coordinator at at the University of Cincinnati. the Irish. Tulane in 1983 and 1984 and 
"I've had opportunities to The 39 year-old Sewickley, Pa. served as linebacker coach at leave before and turned them native has been involved with a Pittsburgh for three years be­down," said Davie, "but this is a long series of top-flight defens­ginning in 1980. He coached once in a lifetime opportunity es, including an A&M linebackers at Arizona in 1978 to coach at Notre Dame and for "Wrecking Crew" unit that led and 1979. Lou Holtz." the nation in total defense in Davie's decision to come to 
Davie is the second addition to 19991 and ranked third in Notre Dame was aided by his 
the Irish staff since the Cotton 1993. relationship with current staff Bowl. Northeast Louisiana head He started there in 1985 as members Joe Moore (offensive coach Dave Roberts replaced outside linebackers coach and 
Photo courtesy of Texas A&M Sports Information 
offensive coordinator Skip Holtz moved up to defensive coordi-
Bob Davie will replace Rick Minter as the Irish's defensive coordinator. see DAVIE I page15 
Wicked weekend awaits slumping hockey team 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Writer 
It does not get any easier. 
After dropping their sixth con­secutive game Tuesday to Ferris St., the Notre Dame hockey team must find a way to regroup as they face two of the nation's top 20 teams this weekend at the Joyce ACC. 
The 20th-ranked Falcons of Bowling Green visit on Friday night, while the consensus No. 1 Michigan Wolverines invade the JACC ice on Saturday night. The surprising Falcons were only projected as the CCHA's seventh best team before the season started but they have played well enough for a cur­rent third place standing. 
Senior Jeff Wells, the CCHA scoring leader among de­fensemen, leads a solid corps of blueliners who have allowed less than three goals a game in conference play. 
Much of this can also be partly 
The Observer/Brian McDonough 
attributed to the play of fresh­

Irish goalie Brent Lothrop hopes to fare better this weekend than he did on this play. ­
man goaltender Bob Petrie. He boasts an impressive .906 save 

CCHA. time out against the Big Blue. back here (JACC), we're readypercentage and has been beat Right winger Mike Knumble, Notre Dame took a 3-2 lead in to get back on track," said Ling. 
for an average of just 2.27 

the league's leading goal scorer the first period and were trail­Ling is due to break out of his goals per game. 
with 18, benefits from the play­ing by just one goal after the four-game scoreless streak. 
Junior Brian Holzinger is the making of center Brian second intermission. In addi­The Irish also have the advan­

man to watch. The center 

Wiseman, who leads the league tion, the Irish should be emo­tage of more balanced scoring.
leads BG with 11 goals. 

in assists. tionally up to face Michigan. In the past two games, eightAs if facing a top 20 team was In addition, top overall scorer "They are a great team and different skaters tallied for not enough for one weekend, David Oliver, last week's player the only way to beat them is to Notre Dame. 
the Irish face off against Michi­of the week, and freshman sen­play sixty minutes of solid hock­While the offense has been gan the next night. Thus far sation Brendan Morrison will ey." said leading Irish scorer good enough to win many of the 

this season, the Wolverines 

keep Irish defenders busy Jamie Ling. "We have had a past six games, the play of the
have been nothing short of 

throughout. good week of practice and will defense and goalie have beenspectacular on their way to a Defensively, the Wolverines be up for a team like them." problems. Against the Falcons,20-1-1 record. They lead the appear to be just as strong. Before the Irish face. the the Matt Osiecki-led defenseCCHA in nearly every statistical Senior netminder Mike Shields, Wolverines. they have the op­will be facing new skaters, as 
category, including scoring, 

who owns 15 victories, plays in portunity turn it around this is the first meeting between goals against, power play effi­front of a defense that has al­against Bowling Green. Al­the two this season. The Irishciency and penalty killing. 
lowed a mere 2.5 goals a game. though they have not beaten should know what to expectNot only do they score a lot, Although the Irish have the Falcons since 1983, Notre saturday, having facedthey receive goals from a num­dropped both games against the Dame has the talent to win. Michigan twice. 
ber of different skaters. 

Wolverines this season, they did "We've shown we can play It will be a matter of steppingMichigan is home to four of the enjoy some success the last with the best. Now that we're 
' 
~ 
I 
' 
' 
i 
I 
I 
! 
I r 
~ 
I 
~ 
~ 
I f 
• 



top five scoring leaders in the 
Inside SPORTS 
Saint Mary's 

Belles' swimming and 
basketball set to return 
to action this weekend 
~ 
see page 17 
see HOCKEY I page17 

Ap 
AP-palling A look at how each AP voter cast his ballot for college football's national 
champion. There are a few suprises. see page 16 


Men's Hoops Monty Williams and the Irish look to continue their winning ways against Duquesne 
see page 18 





