
• . . 
• Y'S 
c Cl I L
I I 
I 
Tuesday, September 20, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 17 e • I. 
TI TE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND, SMC blast up rankings 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 
U.S. News and World Report's eighth annual "America's Best Colleges" sur­vey rates the University of Notre Dame as 19th among national colleges and universi­ties. The 1995 poll moved the University up six places from last year's 25th rating. 
"The movement from one position to another is mainly a 
·product of their methodology," said Dennis Moore, director of public relations and informa­tion. "We belong in the top 25, but when it comes to decide who is 15th or 18th or 20th, there is a real question about how you can rank such radi­cally different schools." 
In order to simplify the sur­vey, this year the magazine combined several university and college categories and sub­divided others. The survey sta­tistics are compiled from mea­surements of student selectivi­ty. faculty resources, financial resources, graduation rate, and alumni satisfaction. 
For the fifth year in a row, Harvard University tops the list of 229 schools in the national university category. Princeton and Yale rounded out the top three. 
U.S. News & World Iteport1995 COLLEGE GUIDE 

BEST NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES 
1. 
Harvard University 

2. 
Princeton University 

3. 
Yale University 

4. 
Mass. Ins!. of Technology 

5. 
Stanford University 

6. 
Duke University 

7. 
Calif. Ins!. of Technology 

8. 
Dartmouth University 

9. 
Columbia University 

10. 
University of Chicago 

11. 
Brown University 

12. 
Rice University 

13. 
University of Pennsylvania 

14. 
Northwestern University 

15. 
Cornell University 

16. 
Emory University 

17. 
University of Virginia 

18. 
Vanderbilt University 

19. 
University of Notre Dam 

20. 
Washington University 

21. 
University of Michigan 

22. 
John Hopkins University 

23. 
Univ. of Cal. at Berkeley 

24. 
Carnegie Mellon Universi 

25. 
Georgetown University 


BEST MIDWEST UNIVERSITIES 
1. 
Saint Mary's College 

2. 
Hillsdale College 

3. 
Marietta College

4. 
Ohio Northern Univ. 

5. 
St. Norburt Colle e 


By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's moves up three places this year to lead the Midwest Regional Liberal Arts Colleges in the U.S. News & World Report annual survey of American colleges and uni­versities. 
"We are absolutely delighted that the number one rating from the survey would come during our Sesquicentennial year," said College President William Hickey. "I think that is an affirmation of everything we think that Saint Mary's stands for." 
Saint Mary's has been in the top ten each year since the sur­vey has come out, according to Hickey. 
The Midwest category in­cludes 433 schools which award 60 percent of their de­grees in occupational, techni­cal, and professional fields. 
Saint Mary's also ranked in the top five in the individual categories of academic repu­tation, student selectivity, fi­nancial resources, graduation rate, and faculty resources ­ranking number one in faculty resources. 
In order to reach these re-
see RANKINGSI page 6 

Brandon Candurafl'he Observer 
Fourteen carrot fun 
Comedian Carrot Top drew laughter from the crowd when he per­formed last night at Washington Hall. 
• CnrtR FOR SOCIAl CONCERNS 

Luncheon to acquaint students with esc 
ND academic potential discussed 
By NANCY DUNN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame needs to create a culture of winning in an aca­demic sense, according to Fulbright advisor Professor James McAdams. 
Last year, ten Notre Dame students won awards. a signifi­cant increase from years past. This achievement places Notre Dame in the company of uni­versities such as Berkeley, Harvard. and Princeton, ac­cording to McAdams. 
Even in the midst of this suc­cess, Notre Dame students con­tinue to doubt their ability to win prestigious awards, said McAdams. But, Notre Dame students are bright. cosmopoli­tan. and well-rounded, which is exactly what these selection committees are looking for, ac­cording to McAdams. 
"These are tough competi­tions, but the ability is there." Notre Dame is as competitive as any other university, he stated. Students need to believe that they deserve to be winners, and then, they need to find out what it takes to win. 
The Fulbright Program was created by the U.S. Congress in 1946 to foster mutual under­standing among nations through educational and cul­tural exchanges. Each year the program awards more than 800 Americans the opportunity to study or conduct research in over 100 countries. 
Originality and an unique synthesis of fields make pro­posals stand out. but selection committees are most impressed by a well thought out, strong proposal. 
According to McAdams, a cer­tain amount of language profi­ciency is required depending upon a students intended pro­ject. But, students should not view this requirement as an in­surmountable obstacle. Some of the awards require no for­eign language proficiency skills at all, he added. 
Because of poor publicity, many students have been un­aware of Fulbrights and other awards until their senior year, stated McAdams. While many students have put together suc­cessful proposals in under a month, McAdams hopes to in­crease awareness so that peo­ple have a chance to prepare 
see MCADAMS I page 4 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Editor 
Designed to increase student interest and volunteerism while also serving as a fundraiser for various community service organizations, the Center for Social Concerns (C.S.C) is spon­soring four "Hospitality Luncheons" during each semes­ter of this year. Each will bene­fit a different organization in the South Bend community. 
The first luncheon, to benefit St. Margaret's House, will take place Thursday from 11:30 until1:30 p.m. at the C.S.C. The cost is $3. 
"It is not just a fundraiser. but more a chance to acquaint people with the C.S.C.," said Eugene McClory, associate di­rector of the C.S.C. "We want to show people the spirit of the 
C.S.C. and let them know that our doors are open." Students are strongly en­couraged to attend, he added. 
For St. Margaret's House-a day center for women and chil­dren-the luncheon sponsored for them last year was indeed a stimulant to student awareness and interest in their organiza­tion. 
see LUNCHEON/ page 6 


On the fast lane of the information superhighway 
By DAVE TYLER 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame is pulling into the fast lane on a new highway. And its not the Indiana Toll Road. 
The University of Notre Dame is now connected to a vast computerized network of information and resources that can take students and faculty anywhere in the world in a matter of seconds. Called "The Information Superhighway" in today's popular vocabulary, this network is not a physical set of places, but a mass of comput­ers, fiber optic cables and satel­lite communication links that can transmit sound, text, and images across continents. 
As part of the University's five year Computing Initiative, a campus network was estab­lished. This network not only allows students access to on campus computing facilities, but affords them connections to Information Superhighway as well. Once connected, the there's no place you can't go. 
"There's a virtually limitless source of knowledge and ser­vices right at your finger tips," said Joel Cooper Assistant Director of Networking Services for Notre Dame's Office of University Computing (OUC). 
Wandering on to this Highway has never been easier. The "Highway," officially known as the Internet (short for International network), was ac­tually created in the late 1960's. In the 90's it has blos­somed worldwide, growing to over 35 millions users at 3 mil­lion international sites. 
Members of the Notre Dame community can plug into this vast resource, at any of the campus' computer clusters, or via a modem. Each cluster is equipped with communication software, which when activated open gateways to the Internet. 
Eudora is an electronic mail program that can lets users generate, send and receive messages anywhere on earth, that is linked to the Internet. Eudora based "e-mail" has be­come the most popular com­puter application on campus, accounting for nearly 50 per­cent of Notre Dame computer cluster use, said Mike Miller, consultant and analyst for the OUC. 
"E-mail allows students to keep in almost constant com­munication with their friends, professors or whoever," said Miller. "It's easy to learn how to use, it's fun, and its a lot quick­er than the post office." 

And it's popularity has been steadily rising. Beginning this academic year. the Freshman Writing Program requires that all incoming freshmen activate their electronic mail accounts. 
TurboGopher is a text based communications program that networks numerous informa­tion retrieval sites around the world. The sites, called "go­phers" can locate, process, and deliver a piece of information to a computer screen. The TurboGopher system gives a user control of a very powerful tool. By using the pragram to open another gopher users can look up addresses and phone numbers, locate research data, or read a newspaper on a com­puter screen. 
Cooper says TurboGopher's abilities stretch even further. "At ND, people have used TurboGopher to apply for jobs electronically. post calendars of upcoming events. and even keep track of prices in the Huddle. Any one who has ever looked up their schedule in the clusters has used the Gopher. New sections and listings are showing up daily." 
Mosaic is a new addition to the Notre Dame software library this year. It is a communications program developed at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) that com­bines text graphics, audio, and video elements. Mosaic hooks into the World Wide Web (WWW) which is an extension 
see COMPUTER I page 4 


'"ll'l ,,_ tl "IT 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 20, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


The Trials 
of 

Twinhood 

Being a twin ain't always easy. People often mistake my sister, Kathy, for me and vice-versa. Really, it's not as if we dress the same anymore. (Although Mom actually made matching color outfits for us until we hit the stubborn age of 

six.) And we aren't as Carolyn Wilkens similar in appearance as 
Viewpoint Copy
when we were little tykes 
Editor

and Dad came up with the idea to tie a small rib­bon around my ankle in order to tell us apart. 
For a time when I was little, I worried that I wasn't myself. All it would have taken was a couple name slips for them to forget who was who. The fact that Mom often inadvertently for­got Kathy's real name and called her Car-thy didn't help to ease my fears either. 
Unlike our older sister Julie, who for ten months ruled supreme with her insurmountable amount of solo baby pictures, Kathy and I are rarely shown apart in our own baby photos. Instead, the photographs reflect our infant to toddler years as doing everything together: drooling together, staring in awe at our first­year birthday cake together, having our young mother push us around in the double-baby stroller ... 
It was around the age of fourteen, that the twin thing really began to get old. During this time I turned on Kathy, simply because she was my twin. I blamed her (very unfairly, I now realize) for a lot of things that weren't her fault. 
I blamed her for all the times we happened to dress in the same outfits on those early school mornings without realizing it until we were almost out the door. Neither of us wanted to change, and animosity often ruled between us for a good part of the day. 
I blamed her when we ended up in the same honors classes freshman year in high school. 

Worst of all, I blamed her for all the faults I thought I saw in her, when they were actually what I disliked in myself. 
I realize now that everything wasn't all bad. To some extent we had separate interests. While she obsessed with learning French and listening to her U2 music, I threw myself into putting together a literary magazine and play­ing the piano. 
I guess a twin can be like a best friend, only better. We understand each other so perfectly that words are often not even needed. This unique communicative system often drove our family crazy at the dinner table. A glance to the other across the table could communicate a thought, an idea or even a joke which often left us laughing helplessly while the others looked on in confused bewilderment. 
This unique mode of communication continued to work when she studied abroad in France. One time I was absolutely certain she was going to call home. I told my dad, who wouldn't believe me because she had already called that week. Five minutes later the phone rang and it was her. The funny thing was that it had taken her five minutes to walk down the Street to the public phone. Strange isn't it? 
These days Kathy, a French major, is again studying in France. I miss her, of course, but I know that she is happy right now even as I write this. I can sense it. Our paths may take different turns as we soon enter the new phase of life after graduation, but we will always be there for each other unconditionally. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Gwendolyn Norgle Whitney Sheets Kate Crisham Belle Bautista Sports Accent Tim Sherman Mary Good 
Viewpoint Graphics Rae Sikula Jill Harris Lab Tech Clare Heekin 

• Wom.n AT A GLANCE 
Smoking kills six people every minute, study says 
. . LON~ON S kl d th the time the young smokers of today reach Deaths from cigarettes are likely to tnple m0 . ng ef[' S middle or old age, there will be about 10 mil­over the next quarter century to 20 every Dealhsattributedtosmoklngin lion deaths a year from tobacco-one death 
minutes around the world, scieJ?-tists war!l in.·~~~~ a new..global.survey. The ~ndi!lgs are m a book, ~ortality from s~.okmg m Dev~loped Countnes 19~0-~000, t~ b_e pubhsh~d Tuesday by scientists at Bntam s Imperial Cance~ Re~earch Fund, the -vyortd Health Or~amzatwn _and the Amencan Cancer S~c~ety. . . . . . . 
Worldwide smokmg IS already kilhng 3 mil­lion people each year, and this number is increasin~," Richard Peto, a researc~er at the lmpenal Cancer Research Fund, said at a 35-69years 
n_ews conference Mo.nday. That t~anslates to -men D women estimate. They predict smoking will kill about SIX pe_ople every mmute, he said, and the 10 million people a year by 2020, the vast
Sooroo "Mortality lfom Smoking ., Developed 

~?rst IS yet to COIJ?-e. . <t<;ou'""" 1950-2000' maj?rity in developing countries where the If current smokmg patterns persist, then by · ·· AP/carl Fox habit continues to attract young women. 
Gingrich violates disclosure law 
WASHINGTON 

The Federal Election Commission has fined House Republican Whip Newt Gingrich's 1992 campaign com­mittee for failing to comply with laws governing the dis­closure of campaign contributions. The FEC and Gingrich's campaign signed an agreement last week in which the campaign paid a $3,800 fine for failing to disclose within 48 hours more than $30,000 in contributions it received between Oct. 15 and Oct. 31, 1992. Allan Lipsett, press secretary for Gingrich's re-election campaign, said Monday, "We got swamped with Grlngrlch paperwork in the last days of the cam­paign. We admitted it and we were negotiating the amount of the fine with them. "We've paid the fine and put new bookkeeping procedures into effect and a new bookkeeper who understands this fully, and we'll work to make sure this doesn't happen again," Lipsett said. Former Hep. Ben Jones, the Democratic nominee chal­lenging Gingrich in Georgia's 6th District, said the FEC fine illustrates anew Gingrich's penchant for "trying to play by a different set of rules than the rest of us." "This is another example of Gingrich operating in secrecy," Jones said. "Americans insist on an open political system. The purpose of the 48-hour rule is to ensure the public knows of those bankrolling their congressman. Newt would rather we didn't know." 


Judge may make King pay legal fees 
LOS ANGELES 

A federal judge agreed Monday to reconsider his order that Rodney King pay $237,958 in legal fees to the Los Angeles Unified School District. Judge John Davies ordered King to pay the district for "frivolously" naming it in a lawsuit seeking damages for his March 3, 1991, videotaped beating by police. Davies agreed to reconsider after King's lawyer, Steve Lerman, said he did not attend the Aug. 11 hearing at which Davies issued the order. In April, a jury awarded King $3.8 million from the city but decided none of the district police officers named in his lawsuit were liable for punitive damages. Two district police officers had taken part in the beating. The cash­strapped school district filed a motion earlier this year to recover legal costs, arguing King's lawsuit lacked merit. The 1992 acquittal of four Los Angeles Police Department officers on state charges of assault touched off the Los Angeles riots. Sgt. Stacey Koon and Officer Laurence Powell were later convicted in federal court of violating King's civil rights and sentenced to 30 months in prison. A federal appeals panel has ordered Davies to reconsider those sentences, saying they were too lenient. 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 

Two killed in Beijing street shooting 
BEIJING 

An Iranian diplomat and his son were killed and several people wounded Tuesda~ when a man armed with a rifle shot at vehicles and bystanders on a major Beijing street, officials and witnesses said. Foreigners living in a diplo­matic compound near Beijing's Second Ring Road, one of the city's main arteries, were startled by the loud gunfire. One diplomat, who asked not to be named, said he saw a man in civilian clothing carrying a rifle, pursued by men in military uniforms. Iranian Embassy officials said attache Yousef Mohammadi Pishknari and one of his sons were shot to death. Another of Mohammadi's sons was shot in the leg and his two daughters were missing, the embassy said. Mohammadi was driving the children to school at the time of the shooting, the embassy said. Others near the scene said several other people were injured by the gunfire, one perhaps fatally. The shooting occurred at the start of morning rush hour was an unusu­ally graphic example of China's rising problem with gun crimes. Although China bans civilians from owning or carrying weapons, except in special cases, the number of illegal weapons has soared in recent years and violent crime is increasing. Beijing authorities recently ordered city residents to turn in unauthorized weapons or face serious punishment. Authorities would not immediately confirm details of Tuesday's shooting, and police blocked access to the road. 
Four dead in soccer team plane crash 
ALGIERS, Algeria 

A Nigerian plane with 39 people aboard, including a Nigerian soccer team, crashed in the desert in southern Algeria on Sunday, killing four people and injuring 24. The plane, on a flight from Tunis, Tunisia, to Lagos, Nigeria, crashed on landing at the Tamanrasset airport, 1,250 miles south of Algiers. It hit a lamp pylon on the runway and a fire truck, witnesses said. Poor visibility was probably a factor in the crash, airport officials said. The plane, a BAC-111, belonged to Oriental Airline, which is owned by Nigerian building magnate Emmanuel Iwuanyawu, Radio Nigeria reported. Iwuanyawu also owns the soccer club, Iwuanyawu Nationale, which was aboard the plane. The victims included the pilot, co-pilot, a flight attendant and a member of the soccer squad, medical sources in Tamanrasset said. The plane was car­rying 32 team members and a crew of seven. Last year, the Federal Aviation Administration banned flights from Nigeria to the United States, citing lack of safety and security at Nigerian airports. 
to every three seconds," Peto said. 
The new survey provides the most compre­hensive analysis of the world's smokers, describing trends in smoking-related deaths since the 1950s and forecasting deaths into the next century. 
The new book covers 45 countries, 15 more than the previous study. The additional nations are from eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. Sixty million deaths have been caused by 70+years smoking since the 1950s, the investigators 
Tuesday, Sept. 20 Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 20. 
FRONTS: 
"T"""T"" ............ ....-AT­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T .STORMS FLURRIES VIa Aasodalfld PrBSs 
C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Atlanta  78  66  Dallas  90  72  New Orleans 86  68  
Baltimore 79  52  Denver  79  56  New York 77  56  
Boston  71  52  Los Angeles 7 4  63  Philadelphia 78  54  
Chicago  85  55  Miami  89  75  Phoenix  100  78  
Columbus 79  48  Minneapolis 81  55  St. Louis 84  59  

Eric Ruethling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

-----------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 20, 1994 The Observer •CAMPUS NEWS 
BOG hopes to renovate Haggar 

By EMILY RUFFNER 
News Writer 
Renovating Haggar College Center into a more student­used center is a strong focus of Board of Governance (BOG) this semester. 
"We're going to start small," claims Jennifer Ligda, Student Academic Council Secretary. 
Plans are to try to open up Haggar Parlor, the mezzanine, and the balcony of the snack bar to attract more of a social atmosphere, according to cam­pus clubs commissioner Julie Gangloff. 
"We need to use what we have now if we are going to hope for anything more," said sophomore Emily Miller. 
Student surveys will be circu­lating in the next few weeks for students to voice their opinions. 
"When we propose something the students have a say in it," said Melissa Peters, vice presi­dent for Academic Affairs. 
Other BOG news: 

• A campus wide calendar will soon be placed in Haggar showing every aspect of SMC student activities. This central calendar coinciding with a biweekly newsletter aims to heighten awareness of campus activities. The calendar will be located between the travel 
Physical Therapy Club 
Meeting TUesday @ 9:00 p.m. 12 7 Nieuwland Science Hall 
, 
for information call Beth @273-8474 
' 
agency and the bank. 
• 
An additional Freshman Election Information meeting will be held 7:00p.m. this Thursday for those interested in running for class office. Election dates will be pushed back to Tuesday, October 4, with run-offs October 6, if needed. 

• 
The Sophomore Class Mass is this Sunday and their dance will be October 14. The Junior Class Toga Party is scheduled for October 7, and the seniors are working on Senior Dads' weekend coming up in November. 

• 
CAMPUS lifE COUNCIL 




Weekend Wheels in jeopardy 
By EDWARD IMBUS that the HPC was "seriously News Writer considering whether or not we should cancel this program and 
The Weekend Wheels pro­pursue other alternatives" to gram is in serious peril, due to help deter and avoid drunk dri­misuse by students, a lack of ving. use by students, and an abrupt The program, which has a change of schedule. United Limo Bus go from vari­
At the Campus Life Council ous local bars to certain off 
(CLC) meeting last night, Hall campus apartment complex Presidents Council (HPC) and campus, costs approxi­President Rich Palermo said mately $10,000 for the bus and 


PRESENTS THE 

ACADEMIC YEAR SEMESTER IN LON.:, 
::::::::;~:::::;:\:i?~{~:}=:·· 

AEROSPACE OR MECHANICAL ENGINEERING MAJORS INTERESTED IN GOING TO LONDON FOR THEIR FIFTH SEMESTER COME TO: 
ROOM 356 FITZPATRICK HALL TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20 7:00P.M. TO 8:30P.M. 
.. ··>:.:<·.)!~{.:::::.::::·:.· 
:·.:::?\(:::;::::.·· 

DRS. LUCEY AND MUELLER WILL PRES INFORMATION A~J:) ANSWER QUESTIONS. 
$2,000 for advertising, accord­ing to Palermo. . Students, however, were al­legedly using the bus to go from campus to the bars, which vio­lated a rule the Office of Student Affairs placed on the program in order to avoid lia­bility. 
Palermo also noted that pa­tronage has been significantly low in the program from its on­set. Last Saturday, only four riders used the bus. 
The program, however, was fully funded by HPC last year by diverting funds that would have otherwise gone to the dorms, said Hillary Bonenberger, HPC co-president. However, after HPC had advertising for this year printed, United Limo pro­posed another schedule in ac­cordance with OSA directives that would have nullified the advertising. 
Dave Hungling, student body president and chairman of the CLC, also asked for agenda ideas to be addressed over the year. 
He especially encouraged the faculty anct staff on the Council to propose ideas over the year, so that not all the ideas would be from students, as it report­edly had been in previous years. 
Such ideas included: 
• offering input in the review of the Notre Dame smoking pol­icy, which is up for review this year, 
• reviewing the plans for the new dorms which will be built when Grace is converted to of­fice space in order to offer ideas and ensure it has an ade­quate amount of recreational space outdoors and 24 hour space indoors. 
' discussing the campus housing policy of putting dorm rooms back in their original conditions just prior to finals, and 
• examining the possibility of using meal cards to get food at The Huddle or elsewhere in La Fortune. 
This issue had been raised before, and is being reviewed by OSA after tentative consent from the Office of Business Affairs, according to members of the CLC. 
Bridget Conley, manager of the Student Union Board, also announced that The Huddle and Fast Break convenience store are open until 3 am every day, after a trial period at the end oflast year, and that the La Fortune Computer Cluster is open at nights until 2 am except on Friday and Saturday. 
Please recycle The Observer 

page4 

more accurate diagnoses and help develop better treatments.
Co01puter 

A doctor can ask for and 
The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 20, 1994 
strong language sktlls, If ts a veloped." Notre Dame students time, new uses are being de­logical stepping stone to the

McAda01s 
Fulbright. remote right at their fingertips. 
and faculty now have a great "Pick a language, pick a pro­continued from page 1 

gram, including any Notre Dame affiliated program, andMany around the world have 
an image of Catholic education themselves earlier in their col­and technology being mutually lege careers. apply," he said. exclusive. Not necessarily so at Ideally, people should be According to McAdams, the 
NSEP is a flexible program.
this University, says Cooper. thinking for about a year before "Notre Dame has decided that they apply so that they have There are no language prereq­
uisites. All winners are guaran­
it wants to be a national ample time to decide where catholic research and teaching and what they would like to teed some amount of monetary university. Having the Internet study. Also, starting earlier 
award, but the scholarship may not be used for study in any
available twenty four hours a gives students a seek out advice day is a big step in that direc­from various faculty members, Western European countries. 
The program was announcedtion." according to McAdams. 
last December with the first
While the Fulbright program 
application deadline in
focuses upon post-graduate
If you see 

February. With little time for
study and research proposals, 
preparation, Notre Dame still
the brand new National 
managed to produce a winner.
news 

Security Education Program 
Caroline Richard won two all
(NSEP), established last year on 
expense paid awards which will 
behalf of the Defense
happening, 

enable her to study in Mexico
Department, is specifically des­
and Chile this year. 

ignated for undergraduate for­
call 

"This will be a high profile eign language training. 
award, and Notre Dame stu­
"It is the junior Fulbright," he 
dents are sure to be big win­
said. By giving undergradu­
The Observer 
ners," McAdams said. 

ates an opportunity to develop 
ARE YOU WILLING TO GIVE UP ONE MEAL A WEEK SO THAT OTHERS MAY HAVE ONE MEAL A DAY? 

FAST TO END HUNGER 
Join the 800+ students who fast every Wed. to help fight world hunger. Over $7000 raised last semester!! Sign up in your dorms or call Amy 4-4311 
Leave your name and ID number 
&~~®m~il®rn JFrr®~Iblm®rnl) ~®~fu®l]]l®Ir®~ &mcif JJI]ll]!fi®Ir~ 
Announcing the National Security Education Program Competition 
Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of the world outside of Canada and Western Europe. Applicable to most foreign study abroad programs. 
Come to the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Monday evening, September 26, 1994 at 7 p.m. in room 131 DeBartolo 
Take Kaplan and get your highest score! 
-

Kaplan gives you: 
• 
Dynamic teachers • Actual released tests 

• 
Computer analyzed testing • And now, test prep software 


Call 1-800-KAP·TEST 



KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question 
continued from page 1 
of the Internet. 
"Mosaic takes the Internet experience one step further, into a more interactive dimen­sion," said Miller. 
The program is organized by database and by topic, so a user can locate a particular field of interest, and find a wealth of information on it. "What we have are storefronts where a user can use services and gather information," Cooper said. 
Those storefronts include a wide variety of shopping possi­bilities. The University itself has initiated or joined WWW projects. One is the Gutenburg project, an endeavor aimed at converting classic written texts to electronic media. Notre Dame's contribution has in­cluded transferring its impres­sive Dante collection to Mosaic where it can be accessed from anywhere in the World. 
"This can save scholars trips around the world, because with Mosaic they can actually look at the original manuscript, at comments of other researchers, from the comfort of home," said Cooper. 
Many other organizations are tapping in to these possibilities. The University of Iowa has cre­ated The Virtual Hospital an Internet medical resource guide that combines articles, pictures and sounds to allow doctors who may not have a major medical center near by to make receive human help, via the network. 

The US government is even getting into the act. Vice President Al Gore has been over seeing the transfer of some governmental bureau­cracy to the Internet. The Department of Education and Interior and now both accessi­ble by Mosiac. Interested par­ties can correspond with the departments by e-mail, or re­ceive data. 
NASA even broadcasts their space shuttle missions over Mosaic. Observers can actually watch and listen in as the as­tronauts orbit earth and com­municate with mission control. Even over such vast distances, the video, and sound are crisp, clear, and almost instanta­neous. The broadcasts are available any time day, or night. 
To Cooper, availability is the biggest advantage of Notre Dame's Internet connections. "A student or professor can look up information, or send mail or retrieve data at any time of day or night. There are no hours or return dates. The Internet is truly global, there are no owners, and no fees. A user is completely free to use the service in a manner that will make him or her most pro­ductive." he noted. 
Cooper compares having Internet to having premium cable. "You get the full range of services," he said. "New chan­nels are coming on line all the 

Campus Interviews October 3, 1994 

OLDE, America's Full Service Discount Broker5M is looking for motivated people to establish a career in the brokerage business. 
OLDE offers: 12-18 month paid training program Potential six-figure income Excellent benefits 

If you possess excellent communication skills, general market knowledge and the desire to excel, sign up for an on-campus interview on October 3, 1994 in the Career Center. 
r 

If you are unable to arrange an interview call: 
1 800 937-0606 
or send resume to: OLDE Discount Stockbrokers National Recruiting 751 Griswold Street Detroit, MI 48226 

~OLDE 
DISCOUNT STOCKBROKERS Member NYSE and SIPC 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 


SYRACUSE UNIVERSI1Y Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 
\ 

SYRACUSE ABROAD $ 
Something to write home about! 
• 
Programs ln Australia, Belgium, England, France, 

Germany, Israel, Italy, Spaln, and Zimbabwe 

• 
Prior foreign language not always necessary 

• 
SU credit 

• 
Field trips/traveling semlnars 

• 
Internships 


• 
Study for a semester, a year, or a summer 

• 
Home stays or limited apartment placements 



t 


FACULTY UPPER ROOM 
SERIES 

"FAITH AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE" 
An opportunity to reflect with colleagues and spouses/guests on the integration of spiritual concerns and professional challenges and demands. 
TUESDAY 

27 September 1994 
Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00p.m.-Discussion until9:00 p.m. 
Speaker Michael K Sain Freimann Professor of Electrical Engineering "Humility and Academic Life: Over the Rainbow?" 
Reservations: Return the form received in the mail or simply call John Gerber, C.S.C. at 1-8601 or Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by Friday, September 23. 
A donation of$5.00 at the door or by check made out to Campus Ministry can help defray the expenses of the dinner.~ 

(NvfUS Co-Sponsored by:
rv.N5TRY Campus Ministry and 

;__...:;....;..,_....,._..:... the Center for Social Concerns !!!!!!! 
............ ij;i;ii 
Brandon CandurafT'he Obaerver 

Daniel "Rudy" Ruettiger gave a motivational speech at Flanner Hall last night. 
Rudy: Dreams can make things possible 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
With his introduction to "anyone who has a dream," Rudy Ruettiger, the real life in­spiration behind the movie, "Rudy," spoke at Planner Hall Monday night. 
After a brief introduction and background of his life, Ruettiger began by explaining his reason for fighting to have his movie made and his story told. 
"A lot of us let our dreams fade because we let people tell us what to do, but dreams are possible. And that is why I made this movie," said Ruettiger. "To show everyone that all you have to have is a dream, the right perception and the persistence to make it happen." 
According to Ruettiger, the point of the movie was not sim­ply about football, but that it was about the true elements of a person and a dream. 
Ruettiger said that Notre Dame was hard, and that ev­eryday he wanted to quit school and the football team, but deal­ing with that pain was what made him strong inside. 
"The only way to make great things happen is to have anger," said Ruettiger. " Channeling that anger into something positive creates mir­acles, and that is what I did." 
Ruettiger spends his days traveling from state to state giving inspirational talks to people of all ages. 
"The most fulfilling thing is to talk to people, to give them my message and get feedback from them" said Ruettiger. 
Ruettiger said that he still hopes of one day reaching the point when he can go to the Notre Dame Stadium, and be able to cut the grass without being paid for it. 

INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSIDP BIBLE STUDY WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21 5T 
7:00 P.M. AT THE CSC 
Come and hang out with a great bunch of people as we study the Bible and eat Kevin's cookies. 




The Papa Zone 
If you call during 5 p.m. -7:30 p.m the price of a large, one-topping pizza is the time you call plus tax! 
It's Time to Call Your Papa! • 271-1177 
page 6 
Dole: Chances for reform dead in '94 
ByCHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Pms 
WASHINGTON 

Health reform appears dead for this session of Congress, Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole said Monday. 
"Time is running out. I don't see anything happening this year," Dole told the Independent Institute. "Maybe next year we'll have a more ra­tional approach to health care." 
Even as Dole pronounced a requiem for reform, a bloc of Senate moderates was still la­boring on a possible compro­mise. But even some moderates seemed to be looking to next year. 
Dole said of the "main­stream" group led by Sen. John Chafee, R-R.I., "I can tell you, if they bring out some complicat­ed bill, it's not going to go any­where." 
Chafee and others were hud­dling later with Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell to dis­cuss their attempt to put to­gether a bill that could com­mand at least 60 votes. 
Mitchell said he and Dole had a brief private exchange about health reform and needed to talk further. 

Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, last week called for the Chafee group to give up, saying its ap­proach would harm Medicare and Medicaid. 
But Sen. Bob Packwood, R­Ore., the top Republican on Finance, said, "It would be pos­sible still to pass a very skinny bill. But it would be skinnier than the 'mainstream' plan." 
Sen. Kent Conrad, D-N.D., said the moderates were en­couraged by preliminary Congressional Budget Office figures indicating their plan could cut the deficit by $56 bil­lion over a decade and boost coverage to 93 percent or 94 percent. It is built around sub­sidies, market reforms and changes in deductibility of health expenses. 
They are still trying to work out differences with Mitchell over drug coverage for the el­derly, long-term care and what size companies could self in­sure, he said. 
So, Kevin! 
Have a Happy, Happy Birthday! From all ofus at Graeters and Skyline!?! 

The Observer • NEWS 
Luncheon 
continued from page I 

"It was a big help on raising awareness of us on campus, especially since we are a small­er, less well known agency," said Director Kathy Schneider, who is also a member of.the Notre Dame undergraduate class of 1978 and graduate class of 1984. 
Schneider expects the public­ity generated by the luncheon to bring in additional volun­teers. 
Functioning as a "community center" for women and chil­dren. the House was founded four years ago by the Episcopal Diocese of Northern Indiana and is open Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. 
In addition to serving lunch to 25-45 persons a day, the House has laundry facilities, a children's play area, and also hosts self esteem and spiritual reflection groups for guests. 
"It's a place where basic needs are met in a community setting," said Schneider. "Women here get a sense of ownership, as it is co-owned and run by the guests and vol­unteers. They feel a real part of the place." 
A quilt that was put together by the guests of St. Margaret's House will be on display during Thursday's luncheon. 
Designed and overseen by St. Mary's graduate Mary Fran Brandenburger. the quilt is also the result of a joint grant from Very Special Arts Indiana and the Michiana Arts and Sciences Council. 
Dates of additional Hospitality Luncheons for the semester are as follows: October 20, November 17. and December 8. 
Tuesday, September 20, 1994 
Rankings 
continued from page I 
suits, U.S. News conducted a survey at 1,400 accredited four-year colleges and uni­versities. 
College presidents, deans, and admission directors were asked to rate all schools in the same category as their own institutions. 
This ranking was then com­bined with statistics measuring student selectivity, faculty re­sources, financial resources, graduation rate, and alumni satisfaction provided by the colleges. 

"This ranking means that a lot of people from other insti­tutions recognize the quality of education at Saint Mary's," Hickey said. 
"The best kept secret about just how good Saint Mary's really is finally out." 

·~============================================~· 
• 
Attention: 

Accounting majors and all prospective accounting majors! 
There will be an organizational meeting for the 
NoTRE DAME AccouNTING AssociATION 
on Tuesday, September 20 at 7:00 p.m. in Room 122 Hayes~ Healy 
• 

M.Afllii* 

Will your company grow as fast as you do? 
Almost every company's recruiting ad promises you rapid growth. But before making any decisions, ask them how fast they're growing. After all, you're going to have trouble moving up if your company isn't. 
Over the last five years, while economic conditions have stalled many organiza­
tions, Andersen Consulting grew on the average of 20% per year. 
ANDERSEN 

Compare that figure to any other firm you're con· 
CONSULTING

sidering. It could be the difference between getting 
ARlliUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C 

ahead. And banging your head. 
Andersen Consulting will be conducting screening interviews on Thursday, October 6 -Friday, October 7. Please see Career and Placement Services office for details. To learn more about us, please stop by at our Andersen Consulting Career Day on Friday, September 23 from 8:30 am -5:00 pm in the La Fortune Ballroom. Casual attire is appropriate. 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 20, 1994 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar• Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spans Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .........................•..... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Conttoller ..................................... Kristen Mattina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is repotred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• DESIDERATA 
, Ethics in the workplace: 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The law must be stable, but it must not stand still. 
-Roscoe Pound 


I]N TH£ D4Y5 THATFOlUXJ.JefJ HULO. 
TH& (JJff.X)(jj !XXlVC5BURYKm"A 5Tif-L.. VIGilANT&Y£. ONTH£ 5TR.4Nvtf<. "SUR~!Nv'? 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
YUP. 5UR£6 

NIC& CF YOU TO K~£P STOPPING 8Y,M4 
in mind. And I would have to agree that it is questionable whether such people who yet paid handsomely to defend clients who are often less that complete­ly ethical are concerned about more fundamental issues like the ones I addressed in the case of Tony Dendor. 
I would not suggest that no one should defend people like our opponents in the Dendor case. Morality is a very personal thing and, while such representation would conflict with mine, I am sure that it works just fme for others. I only sug­gest that law students -indeed, every­one, no matter what profession they plan to enter -consider the moral is­sues involved. I have done so and have reached the conclusion that I could not in good faith work for a firm like the one representing the companies sued by Tony Dendor's estate. Sure, I could make a lot of money and I won't pretend that I would not like that, but my reason for going to law school was to help indi­viduals with real problems, who truly need my assistance. I might have a harder time paying off my loans than my classmates who take the corporate route, but I will be able to say with pride that I did not have to sacrifice my ethics for my career. and when I hear a lawyer joke (as I often will), I can rest assured that it is not targeted at people like me. 
Of course there is a much more funda­mental reason for examining the ethics of one's profession than avoiding nega­tive stereotypes, and it involves the ben­efits one derives from his work. Money and material wealth will not accompany us to our afterlives. But I firmly believe that intangibles like compassion and empathy will. Those of us who have faith in God no doubt also believe that He cares more about whether we help our brothers and sisters than whether we make a lot of money. 
This brings to mind another reason I felt so close to Tony Dendor. He, like myself, was an avid poet. I fmd the fol­lowing -an excerpt from a poem he composed the very month he passed away -to be an apt closing: The lid is closed on that soul's life/ Only to be laid next to countless men/ And as for him what of his struggle and strife/ He'll be reabsorbed and live again . 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92. is currently a third-year law student. 
As a student of the law, I am frequent­ly exposed to lawyer jokes. I am not par­ticularly offended by them; in fact I find many of them quite amusing. They do, however, prompt me to take a closer look at the profession I am entering and to question why it has become laden with so many negative stereotypes. 
A case I had occasion to work on extensively this summer provided me with a conduit for my thoughts on the subject. And I arrived at the conclusion that yes, there certainly are attorneys out there who deserve the criticisms 
, they receive. Their main objective is
1
•making money, and they will represent anyone who can pay their price. 
On the other hand, however. there are attorneys who sincerely care about the 
Kirsten Dunne 


people with whom they deal and are not aptly referred to as "snakes" or '"sharks". It is the latter sort of lawyer that I hope to become. 
In the case that inspired this article, we represented the estate of a man who fell to his death on a jobsite. The defen­dants included several large companies. Although I do not feel at liberty to dis­cuss the case in great detail, what I can relate is the following. 
Tony Dendor was only twenty-three ­my age -when he died. He was paying his way through college to become a physical therapist, a profession to which he was attracted because it would en­able him to help others. He was extremely close with his family, and each of them was devastated in a differ­ent way by his death. His older sister felt very alone because Tony was her best friend. Neither of them had needed many other friends because they were so close, and when Tony died, she, being the only immediate family member in Chicago, felt as if she had nowhere to turn. His younger sister -only ten when he died -lost a mentor and a playmate. Her school performance has declined drastically and still six years later she fails to exhibit any zeal for life in general. His mother, the quiet one in the family. lost the person who under­stood her best when she lost Tony. 
And his father was hit hardest of all. Ever since he could remember. Tony had enjoyed learning about his father's work and helping him with it. Tony and his father were constant companions; as his mother put it. they were the dynamic duo, and his father was extremely proud of him. Now, he takes several medica­tions for depression, and they alter him so he is even worse -in his own words, he either walks around "like a zombie" or feels like "going fishing and lumping under the boat." 
These aspects of the case truly affect­ed me. I could not leave my thoughts about it at the office, and at times I was even moved to tears. I realized how lucky I was and prayed to God for the Dendors' pain to subside. 
I was affected in a much different manner by the tactics of our opponents. On the rare occasions when they acknowledged that the case was, at bot­tom, about the loss of a human life, it was primarily in an attempt to set a dol­lar amount on it -and a low one at that. They questioned for example, how much the family now had to spend on household repairs that Tony would have done if alive. They inquired as to the cost of medications and counseling the family underwent as a result of Tony's death. And they were very curious about the cost of his funeral and who paid for it. All of this is fme from a purely legal perspective, but I found it hard to ignore the more fundamental issues in this case and, from my perspective, their tactics were tasteless and sickening. 
My guess is that when people joke about lawyers' greed and slimy tactics, it is the latter sort of attorneys they have 
page 8 Tuesday, September 20, 1994
VIEWPOINT 
• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Clinton using Haiti to boost approval 
Dear Editor: In response to Josh Ozersky's Sept. 15 article on Haiti, where do I begin? 
Ozersky refers to Senators Newt Gingrich and Bob Dole as "the real villains of this Haiti invasion, and every invasion too" and accused them of taking this stance only to wage a political defeat of the President. What Ozersky does not realize is that the prob­lem lies not with Republican senators, but with Bill Clinton's im­potence as a leader. Clinton was unable to unite the Democrats on the NAFTA vote (more Republicans voted for it than did Democrats), and he has been unable to rally his party behind his health care plan. 
In addition to this, Democrats in the Congress have admitted that if it came to a vote on whether or not to invade Haiti, the President would suffer a humiliating defeat. Since the Democrats have an overwhelming majority in both Houses, how can Republicans like Gingrich and Dole be the "villains" of this issue? If a villain in Ozersky's world is someone who opposes Bill Clinton, it would appear that most of the Democratic Party is also a "vil­lain" in the Haiti issue. 
I call into question if Clinton has the moral qualification to order American troops into this or any battle. The Constitution gives him the legal right to do so, but legality and morality are often in conflict with each other (slavery, abortion, etc.). A qualification of a good leader is that he/she is unwilling to order subordinates to face risks the leader is unwilling to face him/herself. Bill Clinton used family friends to get out of the Vietnam draft and admitted in writing in the 1960s that he "loathes the military." If Bill Clinton thinks Haiti is worth the shedding of American blood, then maybe he should personally hit the beaches with the Marines. 
ANDREW DEKEVER Senior Off-campus 
Do not boycott WalmartfMeijer 
Dear Editor: 

Recently, a letter to the edi· 
tor appearing in the Sept 14 
Observer from Jennifer O'Dell, 
President of the Saint Mary's 
College Democrats. led us to 
believe that Meijer and W al­
Mart stores as well as Indiana 
Stat~ law and Atn.~rlcan busi­
.~~ss are anththet;ic to the com­
xnon goodwill of the laboring 
work-force. These accusations 
are totally unfounded, without 
fact or cohesion. 

First of all, in the article 
O'Dell accuses Meijer 
Corporation of being anti· 
~orker. However. in tpe states 
qf ~lchigan and.9hio..··*ere 
~re ~ctivl!> un ··· bjch partie·. 
ipate jn collec. v. .. argaining. 
To.say that Meijer is respon­
sible for Indiana state law is 
ridiculous, and as far as that 
Indiana state law is concerned, 
the democratic initiatives of 
this state should be of no con­
cern to someone from Ohio, 
such as O'Dell. IfO'Dell is so 
concerned about the power of 
the unions in the state of 
Indiana, we cordially invite her 
to register for the upcoming 
elections this November. 

Furthermore, yolir proposed 
advertising and customer boy­cott of the Wal..:Mart and ~eijer stores.• b.ave far~ reach­ing effects that your political band-aid soll1tion.4fo not real­ize. By boycottiniftlie ·stores, 
they in turn,· will lose money 
which results in the very labor 
cut·backs that O'Dell is. strenu­
ously trying to avoid. 

Liberal solutions to serious proble.ms y~ry_ 9ft~n resemble the image of a martyr, where motives are well~l'eceived, but their proposals often result in 
an eventual outcome contrary you, the final effect of unions is to their very intentions. This to raise the cost of labor, would be exemplified by the thereby leading the employer negative effects that a boycott to cut the number of employ­would have, not only on the ees he/she hires, thereby stores, but also on the employ-increasing unemployment. As ees, the community and the the circle closes, O'Dell will customers that it serves. realize thai unemployed labor-It is a basic economic fact .erswill not be able to afford 
, Liberal solutions to 
serious problems very often resemble the image of a martyr, 
Where motf'ves are we·.11­receiv~d, put their prq,.. .. 
· 1 ·ft 1 · · · · useful function: their function 
posa $ 0 .. en resu tIn an •· .bas since been exhausted and eventual outcome con-their presence unnecessary in trary to the'r1 ver 'nten the American landscape. 
Y1 -O'Dell, you claim that, "we tions. This would be as students should not allow exempJified by the nega-our reputations to be marred 
by associating ourselves with

tive effects that a boy-these two companies," but cott would have..: since we are a part of "two of the fmest institutions of higher education in the country," we that when their is a loss in should not allow our reputa­income, due, in this example, tions to be marred by advocat­to O'Dell's proposed boycott, ing such extreme action on the and labor being the most basis of such unfounded testi­expensiv~ cost component to mony. the owner of the capita\, t.hi~ Next time, O'Dell, you should owner will reduce labor a~:> the... l9ok. past the end of your picket first cost~saving meas1lte t(\" Jign and realize what your prest'lrve profits. ·".,;:•. ~'good·natured". "feel-good" Finally, O'Dell complains of solutions really do to America, American business taking their ··its citizens and its economy. labor needs to places such as China, Burma and India. Let us propose that the very labor JAY TOWN unions that you advocate sup­President portillg ·.i~.• what.drovl:! these, -., ,,, CI:IRJS SEIDENSTICKER companies to seek their labor Vice:·President in these foreign lands. . Notre Dame College Republicans As any economist will tell 
the very products that these llnion workers are so diligently producing and against which 
you are so ready to boycott.
In conclusion, a boycott upon the local Meijer and Wai-Mart ~tores is costly to the region, .the state. the employees and 

the consumer. In 1920s ·iii\ G}}i~a$"o, unions served a very 

Taxpayers need control over how money is spent 
I became visibly upset when the major news networks interviewed welfare moms to gauge their reaction to President Clinton's not-so-sweeping pro­posal to end welfare as we know it. 
Why did the opinion of welfare moms matter exclusively? Shouldn't the net­works interview good, decent, honest, hard-working taxpayers to determine their thoughts? After all, we are the ones who have to pay the extra 10 bil­lion dollars necessary to end welfare as we know it. The government should be selling itself to middle America, rather than narcissistic members of Congress and lazy welfare recipients. I yearn for a system where people rule. 
If it is indeed true that the preeminent facet of representative democracy is the equality of those involved in the process, then surely the greatest challenge to representative democracy is minimizing the gap between electorate opinion and the opinion of those the people elect to represent them. It is in the reduction of this gap, this ever increasing gap in America, that we can again approach a system of true government of the people and for the people. 
An insurmountable amount of empiri­cal evidence proves the following: once we the people of the United States allow our elected of officials to fund some­thing, we lose control of a) how much it is funded, and b) how, specifically, those funds are spent. 
A crucial component in minimizing the aforementioned gap is allowing citizens more control over how their money is spent. For instance, perhaps Americans do not want to spend 30 billion dollars a year on welfare or 250 billion dollars a year on defense. Perhaps Americans do not want to fund abortions as part of a health plan. 
The answer to such contentious prob­lems is to allow taxpayers indirect con­trol over the budgets of the departments of the government. A minimal version already exists for taxpayer financing of presidential elections: those who want to fund presidential elections check the box on their tax form to pay a few extra dol­lars. The amount of money in the "bud­get" for presidential elections is deter· mined by how many people wish to con-. tribute, it is directly determined by the American people. 

Could such a system work on a larger scale, encompassing most or all of the federal budget? 
Consider: Every year a bipartisan organization publishes a book detailing, clearly, all the departments and sub­departments of the government, with explanations of their function as well as their worth. Perhaps a short pro and con are attached to each department, objective delineating to the taxpayer. 
Regardless, taxpayers would use this booklet (among other things to choose where to send their tax dollars. The detail in which one could go could be extensive, to specific projects of sub­departments, or, perhaps early on, the system would just allow tax dollars cho"ice on cabinet level departments, slowly phasing in precise projects of the government. 
The details of the plan can be debated at great length for instance, include entitlements or just discretionary spend­ing?, but the benefits are clear: 
•The 
taxpayers achieve a far greater control over the appropriation of their money. 

• 
Program funding reflects a truer nature of public support, effectively in­creasing democracy. 

• 
The budget would be balanced, for there would be no justification to exceed what the people allocate. 

• 
Congress could fund almost every­thing constitutional. 

• 
The bureaucracies would be directly responsible to the people, whereas now they are responsible to no one. 


The last attribute deserves further explanation: federal agencies would have to sell their agendas to the American people. I can envision grandiose television campaigns with famous celebrities pushing for more spending in defense, or speaking for the innovations in the welfare system. 
If America did not appreciate a partic­ular agency, they would be less inclined to support it; thus, the agency invigo­rates efforts to provide the people with what they want: they finance opinion polls and community meetings to deter­mine how to regain favor with the tax­payers. It sounds like heaven. 
The method of implementing the pro· posed system of taxpayer control over appropriations remains an important detail. Presently, the wealthiest American has as much say, fundamen­tally, as the poorest (with venal politi­cians this is somewhat compromised, however). Implementation must there­fore preserve this preeminent facet of democracy. If taxpayers are allowed to simply partition their tax dollars as they see fit, all is indeed lost. 
Consider: If an individual was to pay eight thousand dollars in taxes one year, he could choose to send $2000 to the military, $5000 to the Food and Drug Administration, and perhaps the rest to education. 
But an individual who pays one million dollars in taxes would have more influ­ence than the taxpayer who pays eight thousand, and even more influence than the individual who pays no taxes (who would have no say under this method of implementation). 
On an individual level those who pay more taxes have greater authority over how much specific government projects receive in funding, which destroys the desired strengthening of democracy. Thus, a different method of im­plementation must be found. 
If one were to substitute a hypothetical hundred dollars for an individual's actu­al amount of tax owed, the same bene­fits are realized but with the sustain­ment of the equality in our democracy. 
Rather than one person divvying up $5000 and another dividing a half-mil­lion dollars, everyone slices one hun­dred dollars. Once the tax returns arrive, someone averages the per­centage appropriated to each federal sector and that portion of the total amount of taxes collected goes to that area of the government. 
No need to worry about us uneducated masses making uneducated decisions ­it is our money after all. In addition, perhaps such a program encourages the apathetic to become actively involved in our government. 
Most importantly, however, I have a much stronger faith in the people to make fiscal decisions than I do in our honorable elected officials. Or at least four trillion dollars of empirical evi­dence suggests such a notion. 
Brian Fitzpatrick is a junior majoring in engineering. He lives in Planner Hall. 
ACCE-NT 

Tuesday, September 20, 1994 page9 
The Radiation Building: An inside look 
By PATRICK STONELAKE 
Accent Writer 
Last week, a little apprehen­sively. I took a tour of the mys­terious Radiation Building. 
It began as I headed across the quad for perhaps my last time at a quarter to three on a beautiful South Bend summer day. the kind of day that God usually saves for JPW, still a bit shaky about charging into a building which I felt uncomfort­able looking at. There it sat, lurking between O'Shag and the reflection pool like some pre­fab late seventies disco Death Star, frightfully nondescript and thoroughly intimidating. I was prepared, however. I wore my steel toed boots and glow-in­the-dark Halloween boxers (both known and respected in the scientific community for their anti-radiation properties) and adopted a gung-ho, special forces mindset. I was taking this place by storm. I prepared several questions in my head. "Can you guys see out of those windows?" ... "What residence halls would a full-scale melt­
down  take  out?...  Would  
Carroll be spared?"  But I  
digress.  

I entered the building with relatively little fanfare, aside from PUSHing the PULL door, and spoke to the receptionist. She told me that the assistant director, John Bentley, would be dq~ ID-~-Illin.ute. ;A.pl.<i.qpe on the wall told me that the building was completed in 1963 under JFK, and was and is run by the U.S. Department of Energy. Interesting. As I wait-ed for Bentley. I imagined a wild-eyed wispy haired lab­coated whirlwind, Doc Brown from Back to the Future, burst­ing through the door screaming " one point twenty one jigawatts!" Instead he snuck up on me, camouflaged in a yellow golf shirt and -1 looked twice to make sure-Birkenstocks. He was p6liteness itself. and dur­ing the next hour he politely put down each one of my delusions. However as a concession to my overactive imagination I thought of him as Doc for the whole tour. 

So Doc eased my fears and led me down into the legendary "basement", explaining that the main task of the lab is Radiation Chemistry, which basically involves the instiga­tion of chemical reactions through low-level radiation. This radiation is generated in four forms in the lab, and Doc showed me each in turn. First was the Electron Linear Accelerator, which somehow produces seven million ev's which is apparently strong enough to ionize anything short of a dining hall egg roll. I wit­nessed an experiment involving the ELA during which Doc looked at the green phosphors bouncing on the sensor screen and said appreciatively, "That looks like a nice beam." Sure, Doc. 
Next we went to the VanDer Graff generator. Painted like a giant football and signed by Dan Devine and his team, it specializes in electrostatic radiation. Here the denizens of the lab work on solar power and medical radiation research. In all honesty, I could have gleaned a lot more from Doc if I hadn't been wondering how many millirems Devine picked up while signing his name in huge swooping letters on the side of the VDG. Maybe that's why he did not play that spunky little kid with a big heart. Radiation poisoning. Curiouser and curio user. 
Finally we saw the laser, one of many on campus, and two huge shielded containers of cobalt 60, which any physicist will tell you is yummy stuff. Doc assured me that any disas­ter nasty enough to crack three inches of lead shielding would cause more worries than any cobalt it released, indeed, some of what he told me suggests that we might best worry about Galvin or Nieuwland. And, as a side note, that eerie silver coat­ing on the mirrors is nothing more than a thermal shield, designed to keep heat from the sun in in the winter and out in the summer. So I said goodbye to Doc and left the lab, breath­ing a tad easier, the Geraldo in me somewhat disappointed, but alive to see another day. To keep the rumors alive, I'll say that I didn't personally inspect every nook and cranny in the place, but I'm sure that if I had asked, Doc Bentley would have obliged. He is a sort of PR man for the lab, and as such, he does his job well. Some of the things he discussed would fill another article, but if you are interested, call the lab and set up a tour. 
• MEDICAl MINUTE 
Be smart, protect yourself 
By RYAN J. GRABOW 
N.R.E.M.T. 
Du Lac may outlaw it and parietals can try to prevent it, but no one can deny that sex is a part of our lives here under the dome. Birth control, sexu­ally transmitted diseases (STDs), and pregnancy are a reality for us all, whether you're sexually active now or waiting till marriage. With over 20% of college women becoming pregnant each year, and the current prevalence of STDs on college campuses around the country it's impor­tant to remember that when it comes to sex -get the facts before your act. 
Birth control--what works? 
As. you may know most non­prescription methods of birth control prevent pregnancies in one of two ways: blocking the sperm's route to the egg or killing the sperm once it enters the vagina. Most drug stores have a variety of contracep­tives that fall under one or both of these categories. 
The contraceptive sponge, which is 82% effective against pregnancy, is a one-size-fits-all soft, round-shaped sponge about two inches in diameter, which serves as a barrier be­tween the vaginal canal and the cervix, trapping sperm within the sponge while also releasing spermicide. It is inserted before intercourse and is effective for 24 hours. but must be left in place six hours after the last act of in­tercourse in order to be effec­tive. Some women complain of difficulty in removal and messiness, and a few women have also experienced irrita­tion due to allergic reaction. Although relatively effective in preventing pregnancy, the sponge offers little protection against STDs. 
The condom, which is 90% effective against pregnancy, is a thin sheath of latex rubber. A wide variety of condoms are available, yet all types are not as effective at preventing preg­nancy or the transmission of STDs. 
1)Never buy natural mem­brane condoms although they offer a greater degree of sen­sation, animal membranes are weaker and more porous than latex condoms, which make them more susceptible to breaking during intercourse and poor protection against many STDs even when the con­dom is intact. 
2)Always buy condoms with spermicide, the spermicide not only enhances the condoms contraceptive abilities and the male's degree of sensation, but it also kills some of the germs that cause STDs. 
3) Never buy extra large con-dams unless you really need them, don't try to kid yourself, over 95% of all men require regular size condoms (that's why they all come in one size). Too large a condom will not fit snugly onto the penis, thus greatly increasing the chances of it coming off during inter­course. 
Latex condoms with spermi­cide are, by far, the best method of preventing STDs if you are sexually active. Contraceptive foams, jellies, creams, and suppositories, which are about 80% effective against pregnancy, are spread over the cervix before each act of intercourse forming a spermicidal barrier between the vaginal canal and the uterus. 
Only somewhat effective in preventing transmission of STDs, due to the spermicide, many women fmd these forms of contraception messy and some men and women experi­ence irritation due to an aller­gic reaction. 
If you are a sexually active woman you may be interested in one of the many prescription methods of contraception that are available, such as the pill, diaphragm, or cervical cap. 
STDs--What to Look For 
Regardless of the method of contraception and STD protec­tion you use, watch for any of these possible signs of an STD: mild to severe burning upon urination, discharge from one's genitals, presence of flat or cauliflower-shaped warts in the genital or facial region, itching in the genital region, visible infestation of lice or eruption of sores in the genital or facial region, flu-like symp­toms, fever, headache, swollen glands, pelvic pain, rashes, and genital inflammation. 

For many diseases, women are less likely to suffer symp­toms than men. and often times display no external symptoms at all. Thus, it is especially important for women to have regular gyne­cological exams if they are sexually active. 
Many of the signs and symp­toms of STDs have other non­sexually relate.d causes, thus only medical testing can identi­fy the real cause. If you experi­ence any of these symptoms, after engaging in sexual inter­course or other sexually inti­mate acts, medical testing should be sought as soon as possible. 
Help --where can I go? 
Here at Notre Dame, University Health Services per­forms private pregnancy and STD testing. One simply has to call and make an appointment (First name only) to meet with one of the doctors on the University staff. Students only pay for the lab work (Ranging from $10-$53) and any possi­ble medications needed, so costs are considerably less than at an outside hospital. All bills can also be paid in cash to insure the anonymity of the patient, and by law your par­ents cannot be notified by University Health Services. nor can anyone else be notified of your condition without your consent. 
For any student who should become pregnant while enrolled at Notre Dame, the University offers assistance through the Office of Student Affairs, Campus Ministry, University Counseling Center, and University Health Services. Saint Mary's Health Center also assists women in obtain­ing pregnancy and STD testing through private appointments, maintaining the anonymity of the student. 
In addition, Saint Mary's College offers academic advis­ing, prenatal care, nutrition assistance, financial assistance and pastoral counseling coun­seling to a pregnant student through Health Services, Campus Ministry, Residence Life, and Counseling and Career Development. For pas­toral reasons, neither the University of Notre Dame nor Saint Mary's College will take any disciplinary action against unmarried students facing an unplanned pregnancy. 
-
-
page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 20, 1994 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Part-time workers wanted week­ HELP! I need 2 TIX to the Stanford  HELP!!II I NEED 1 STUDENT  PURDUE-I need 1 student ticket  
NOTICES  days. Apply @ Ave Maria Press, Printing Division, btwn  Gamel Call Patty at 1-800-697-9141, leave message.  PURDUE PURDUE I NEED 2-4 PURDUE GA'S.  TICKET FOR MY LITTLE BROTHER FOR THE PURDUE  Please call Kristin x3577  
8-4:00 p.m. $5.75 per hr.  PLEASE CALL ME -PEOPLE  GAME. I WILL PAY A GOOD  
Open Auditions for "A Christmas  COMING FROM CA TO SEE  PRICE. CALL ANYTIME.  I NEED 2 BYU GA'S  
Carol" will be held in the Flanner  NEEDED:  GAMEl HEATHER 4-2688  ERIN X4121  I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S  
Penthouse on lues. 9/20,  I need someone to type my law  TICKETS FOR THE BC GAME.  WILL TRADE OR BUY  
7:00-8:30. Call Beth 4 info #4833  school apps. Have experience and  CALL LIZ AT 284-5012.  I HAVE PURDUE STUD TXT 4  call chris x3913  
a little time? Please call  SALE 284-5326 MICHELE  STANFORD! STANFORD!  
Jennifer 272-8563  Parents need a room? I have  
USED TEXTS CHEAPIIII  NEED 2 STANFORD GA'SI  Marriott for Fri & Sat. Concierge  NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE AND  
Buy & sell used books at the only  call Erin @ x2no  NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED­ level-1st class. Jim 634-1745  STANFORD! CALL BOB *1233  
hip place in town 1 0-6M-S/9-3Sun PANDORA'S BOOKS  FOR RENT  I NEED 2 G.A. TIX FOR PURDUE  NEED Stanford STUDS  
NO ave & Howard St 233-2342  CALL grace x4290  NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED­ I have 1 AFOrce GA that! want to  
ROOMMATE needed. Female pref.  NEED  NEED 2 PURDUE GAs!  trade for a Purdue GA  
Oak Hill Condo. OWn room & bath.  Call Don 272-5622  NO grad needs 2 GAs for fiancee's  Call Chris X4358  
PAPA JOHN'S is HIRING!  Call 273-4485.  SEATTLE A TTY'S WILL PAY TOP  NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED­ 1st NO game. Jim 634-1745  
-delivery & inside personnel  $FOR 2 STANFORD G.A.S  NEED  
-flexible schedule  (219) 289-3412  Need GAs for Purdue.  
-top pay  THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  Will Trade 2 STAN for 2 FSU Call  Call Pat 0915.  
-1 0-40 hour schedules available  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S $$$  Karen X4290  
-1/2 price pizza  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  NEED 2 BYU GA'S AND 4 PUR­ CALLX4570  
-EOE  NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  DUE GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$$  Need 2 STANFORD GAs for dad  
caii27H1n  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ call Brian@ X1739  I NEED YOUR TICKETS!  Long lost family and friends coming  and bro. TOP $$! Anna x2286.  
ILOST & FOUND I  773-2034 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY.  WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY  SEARCHING FOR TICKETS FOR THE PURDUE AND STAN­FORD GAMES.  for STANFORD game! Desperately need 7tixl Call Donald x1844.  Need 2 STANFORD GAs Call Chris x3767  
PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC  BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR  CALL MATTHEW  
EVENTS.  KATE@ 271-0224  277-3641  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  
LOST: Set of keys on a blue NO ID  219-291-7153.  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  
holder, with 10, driver's license,  Need 4 GA Stanford tix. Will trade 2  
ATM card, and others. If found  1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  2 BYU GA'S ARE NEEDED II  I NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'SI Call Sean  GA Purdue tix plus cash. Call Jim  
please ca11634-1532 or 634-1815  RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS  CALL NICOLE@ 1287.  at X1432.  @ 312-281-5779.  
PROPERTIES. 272-6306  LOOKING TO TRADE:  
WANTED  I Desperately need a roommate or  I need 2 PURDUE stud. tix. Call Bill x1862  Need 2 GA's for Purdue, 1 GA for Stanford. Call Sharon 273-8474.  1 PURDUEGA FOR 1 STAN FORD GA  
a place to live. call for details. ask  CALL TJ x1130  NEED 8 STANFORD TICKETS.  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  for chuck 273-5299  WANTED  CALL GRANT 416-865-7741.  
BREAK TRIPS I SELL 8 TRIPS &  NEEDED: NO FAN NEEDS 4 GA Tl  GA's for Stanford game.  
GO FREE! BEST TRIPS & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  FOR SALE  CKETS FOR NO/PURDUE GAME. PLEASE CALL BRENT  288-2589  I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL PAT AT 1645.  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT  (602)820-7 469  WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S  
RESUME EXPERIENCEI1-800­ Have 2 Navy! Will trade for Purdue  FOR 2 BYU GA'S. CALL SIGI AT  
678-63861  RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR  or Byul call #4087  HELP!! I need 1STANFORD TICK­ 312-477-3357.  
FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO  I NEED TWO NAVY G.A.  ET (preferably student) Please call  
SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­ CALL MIKE X3692  I'M DESPERATE -MY BRO & SIS  Wendy at x2915  
ERY CALL:  AND 7 OF THEIR CLOSEST  
RESORT JOBS-Eam to $12/hr. +  COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  NEED 3 GAs or STUD. tix for PUR­ FRIENDS ARE COMING THIS  I NEED ONE AIR FORCE TICKET­ 
tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, &  272-5959.  DUE call Rob x-4333  WEEKEND AND I STILL NEED 5  NO FAMILY REUNION needs  GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CALL  
more. Tropical & Mountain destina­ PURDUE STUD. TICKETS. I ALSO  Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call  X3816. THANKS!  
tions worldwide. Call (206)632-0150  Need 6 stu. ticks for Purdue call  NEED 3 STANFORD STUD. KEVIN  517-332-4719.  
ext. R55841  92 NISSAN SENTRA, 53K (ROAD  Kevin @ 273-8699  273-8699  
MILES), 2DR, AC, CRUISE, CASS,  I NEED 2 GAs FOR MY PARENTS  
PB, PS, 1 FEMALE OWNER,  WILL TRADE MY 2 PURDUE  TO TRADE -8 (6 TOGETHER)  FOR PURDUE OR STANFORD ...  
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST  GREAT SHAPE, ASKING $7200  I need 2-4 GAs or 1 stud. ticket for  GAs for 2 STANFORD GAs.  STANFORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR  PLEASE CALL TOM AT 271-9576.  
GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY  CALL 288-8195 (LEAVE MES­ any home game! Please call soon!  Bob.277 -2510  ED BULLEIT 800-786-8723.  THANKS!  
SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­ SAGE)  Lindi-284-5151  
MOTE SPRING BREAK TO  
JAMAICA. CANCUN, BAHAMAS,  STUD TIX BOOK FOR SALE  NEED 1 MICH, 4 PUR.,  I need 2 or 4 PURDUE GA's  
FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE  Need GA's for Purdue! Call Jeff  CALL TOM@254-9068  + 2 STAN. STUD TIX.  call Molly 271-9364  
TRAVEUCOMMISSIONS! SUN  486 OX IBM COMPATIBLE COM­ X2174  CALL 234-8958.  
SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-n10.  PUTER -1 YR NEW $1 ,200.00 OR  Need 1 GA for Stanford -can pay  
BEST OFFER CALL ERIC FOR  $$1 Call Scott x3586  Will trade 4 BYU GA's for 4  SELLING BOOKLETS. LUIS  
DETAILS 258-0536  NEED 2 TICKETS FOR STAN­ Stanford GA's. Call Scott (NO 91)  2731528  
FORD GAME SO PARENTS  @ (201)402-9372  
***COACH'S SPORTS BAR***  CAN SEE FIRST NO FOOTBALL  DESPERATELY SEEKING 3  
Now hiring All-Star Cooks and  BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  GAME. CALL MARIANNE X3295  Purdue TIX stud or GA -John  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  HELP ME! NEED 3 STANFORD  
Servers for part time work.  CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  X3586  CALL SUZV AT 4072  GAs BADLY! CALL DREW 232­ 
Weekends and a positive attitude a  3769  
must. Apply in person.  I need MANY Stanford GAs I have  I NEED PURDUE TIX!  
T ASCAM Multi-track Cassette  $$ and/or stud tix to BYU, Navy and  Need BYU TIX  SANDYx4638  
Deck. 4 tracks, 12 inputs. Call  AF to trade1 Amy x4838  Will trade Stanford tiekets  I NEED 2 PURDUE TIX. GA's or  
INTERHALL COACH  631-7133  Call Mike at (513)228-3349  girl's stud. BRIAN P 273-8553  
Needed for Knott Basketball this  Need 1 Purdue ticket  
year. Season starts in Nov. If inter­ For Sale 84 Honda Accord LX  call Tom 289-3203  *#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*  NEED one stud. ticket 4 Purdue!  
ested, please call Alise @4988.  85,000 miles , 1 owner , all mainte­ I Need 1 STANFORD GA  HELP! Kathleen 2567  
nance by Honda, $2500 or best  WANTED: 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD.  Need two Standford GA's!  call me I x1317  
offer 273 0928  TIX FOR BYU. WILLING TO PAY  Call Todd x1052  *#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*  
Wanted: Geometry tutor for high  $$$ PLEASE CALL MARY AT 273­ $$$ $$$  NEED 1 or 2 PURDUE GA's  
school soph. Your choice of loca­ 2926.  Will pay top dollar.  
tion. Eam extra cash and help a  CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­ Need GAs  Call Matt @ x3243  
future Domer! 631-7350 days or  Minutes from NO-end unit on pond- NEED 2 GA BYU tix and 2-6 GA  Any Home Game  
258-0780 evenings, weekends  181nF Stoneridge-2BR+Lofl,  I need BYU GA's and student  Stanford tix. Please call Rachael  4-3703  Need 2 PU GAs Will trade 2 Navy  
Fireplace, All Gar w/Opener­ TIXIIII Please call Chris @  at #4667.  GAs call x4289  
$58,000-Call232-5190.  x4485.  Need 3 GAs for any home game.  
Learn About the latest in computer  NEED 2 GA's for NAVY &  Call Mike 674-5125  
and presentation technology. Work  NEED 4 GA's for BYU  NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S.  
part time with us inviting business customers to our open houses held  TICKETS  I need purdue or stanford GAs. Will pay big $$$.  CALL Chris x-1353  Wanted 2 or 3 GA's together for BYU 10/15 or Air Force 11119 Call  CALL AARON X3460.  
throughout Indiana.  WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU  Call Megan 284-5050.  #############  Lara 219/273-8961  PERSONAL  
Call219-674-5973 8-5 M-F  TICKETS. CALL  NEED 1 BYU GA FOR LONG  
Ask for Drew or Tom  800-922-2327 JANET.  Help! I need two GA's to BYUII  LOST FRIEND Ill  I NEED STANFORD GA's  Play Ultimate!  
Call TARA at 273-388511  CALLX3281  X4-2193  
#############  Quality Copies, Quickly!!!  
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  Need Stnfrd stdnt or GA tixs, call  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
HELP WANTED:  272-6551  NEED 2 STANFORD GAs WILL  Chris x1197  LaFortune Student Center  
ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER  PAY BIG$$$$ CALL PAT 273­ I need 2 Stanford GA's x1659 Desi  Phone 631-COPY  
ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS  9760  I need stud. tix for Purdue. Call  
NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND  Deseperately need 2 st. tix for  Tom at271-1390 ASAP.  gardner, don't shoot the 8-ball in  
ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY  Purdue. Will pay$$$ 4107 Kris  the pocket. happy 18th birthday,  
NEWS SERVICES,  4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  too. -jeni  
232-3205 OR 288-9361.  CALL X2875 (NICKY)  I NEED 2 STANFORD TIX  I NEED PURDUE GA'SII BRIAN  Help! Alumni need 2 GAs for NO vs  
Will Trade 4 Navy Tix or Pay Big  X1620  Purdue.$$$ Call273-9612  HAPPY BIRTHDAY BILL!  
Bucks.  Did you get another Rappit?  
STANFORD GA'S NEED 4.  Please help me out-Pat x3515  Desperate Need II Purdue GA's  I need Purdue GA's. Call  
\  SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring for  MATT 257-0564  Call Collect Alter S'P.M.  Eric at 232-8337  chavez, you missed your chance.  
many positions for winter quarter.  (219) 324-3241  
Over 15,000 openings! For more  Need 2 GA's for Purdue,  Happy Belated 22nd to Kathy  
information call: (206)634-0469 ext.  CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD  Stanford, & Navy!  DESPERATELY NEED 4 PURDUE  Please! I need 4 NAVY GAs and  Maruna. We love you!!!  
V55841  NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­ X1421  AND 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY  2 STANFORD GAs!  
ets to the Stanford game. Alum  $$$$$call Brian@ x1739  Mary Beth x4220  FR, .... SO, .... SR, ........... Oh, so  
REALLY wants to return to campus  Ticket Trade-I have 2 Navy GA's to  close Mark.  
National Park Jobs -Over 25,000  with family. Student tix ok. Price  trade for 2 Purdue GA's call x3001  NEED 3 STUDENT STANFORD  
openings! (including hotel staff, tour  negotiable. Call collect alter 6 pm  Mark  TXTS-X2377.  Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call  G -taryn, did you have fun saturday  
- guides, etc.) Benefits & bonuses! Apply now for best positions. Call:  (516) 499-5009.  HELP! I NEED TIX FOR STAN­ Sue at 277-8995  night?? G I  
1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841  I Need 4 Purdue Tix Together  FORD. PLEASE CALL MIKE @  Help! I need two Stanford GA's call  jackie: HHMMMMM !I  
Will Pay Big $$$!  X1243  Jen at273-0741  
DESPERATELY NEEDED:  Call Rosie Collect313-668-9952.  engaged yet?  
Help Wanted Individual  STUDENT OR GA'S FOR  I need 4 Navy GA's please!!!!  
students/organizations to promote  STANFORD, PURDUE, NAVY  $$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs.  *** FOR SALE  Mark x1640  ted, you look good in a hat...and a  
Spring Break Trips. Earn high dollar  AND A. F.. CALL RACH 233-1761  Please call Lisa at277-0740. Will  4 Purdue GA's. Together on 15­ purple shirt, too.  
commissions and free trips. Must  pay top dollars.$$$  yard line. Call Bill at 291-6216.  
be outgoing and creative. Call  NO Family Reunion  bumpy bicky, our spotted friend,  
Immediately 1-800-217-2021  NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME.  Need only ONE STANFORD ticket  Need 4-6 STANFORD GA's  we're glad you're all better :)  
PLEASE CALL CHRISSY x3415  WANTED: 2-6 GA OR STUD.  Will take any1hing-BIG MONEY!  Family has airfare, now we need  
NAVY TIX. CALL LISA 2364.  Please call Diana x4939  tickets!! Call x3650  I LOVE LC, signed .....  

Tuesday, September 20, 1994 
Upset-minded Detroit dumps Dallas with overtime field-goal, 20-17 
T~O~~r·_S_P_O_R_T_S______________________P·~-e-1_1_____1 
I
BY DENNE H. FREEMAN Hanson made his second over­yards in a matchup of two of the Cowboys' defensive line. The Cowboys trailed for most Associated Press time field goal of the year. He the NFL's most prolific backs. A tie game would have been of the game, but they overcame had a 37-yarder against Atlanta Scott Mitchell connected on 13 the NFL's first since 1989, a 10-point deficit and tied it 17­
IRVING, Texas 

in the first game of the season. of 27 passes for 127 yards and when Cleveland and Kansas 17 with 4:09 to play in regula­Jason Hanson, who had two 
two TDs, while Aikman hit 26 City fmished 10-10. tion on Smith's 6-yard touch­kicks blocked by Leon Lett late Detroit got the ball back with of 39 passes for 223 yards and down run to cap 59-yard drive. in the game, made a 44-yard 
1:55 left in overtime when Pat one score. Instead, the loss gave Barry The drive started at the Dallas field goal with 27 seconds left Swilling sacked Troy Aikman In the end, though, it came Switzer his first loss as coach of 41 after Hanson missed from in overtime Monday night to and Broderick Thomas recov­down to Detroit's kicking game the Cowboys and kept Lett from 51 yards.send the Detroit Lions past ered a fumble -the second for and Lett's outstretched arms. finally being a hero. The line­
Dallas 20-17, ending the 
Dallas in overtime. man is best known for fumbling Mitchell burned the CowboysCowboys' 10-game winning After a 17 -yard pass to Brett At the end of regulation, away a sure touchdown in the with two clutch passes to streak. Perriman and three unsuccess­Hanson's 57-yard attempt was 1993 Super Bowl and his gaffe Herman Moore that helped the 
It was the first loss for the ful running plays, Hanson put blocked by Lett, and the line­against Miami last Lions open a 17-7 lead midway Super Bowl champions since the winner just inside the right man knocked down a 51-yard Thanksgiving when he touched through the third period.last Thanksgiving when a blun­goal post. attempt 5 1/2 minutes into a blocked kick instead of leav­Mitchell hit Moore with a 25­
der by Lett on a blocked field overtime. ing it alone. Lett didn't main­yard pass on fourth-and-3 from goal attempt allowed the Miami Barry Sanders rushed 40 times But Lett was not in position to tain control of the ball, Miami the Dallas 36, then connected Dolphins to win in the snow at for 194 yards and Emmitt block the game-winner as the recovered and kicked a field with him on a 9-yard touch­Texas Stadium. Smith carried 29 times for 143 ball sailed over the other end of goal to win. down pass on third-and-9. 
It's not exactly a report card. But it certainly shows who stands at the head of the class. 
.,,. 
-r..: 
... 


As Joe Bergan looks forward to graduating this May, we're happy to give him something the entire business world values: our card. Please join us 
-
in welcoming our newest member of Ernst & Young. :11 ERNST& YOUNG LLP 

-------~-~--~~-~-------­
r------~~--­
page 12 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 20, 1994 
: ~tt\ LAst 
I 
! ~ 


.., ~ 
."f To Get Yearbook Portraits Taken! ~ 
NO CHANGES FOR THOSE WITH APPOINTMENTS 
---~­
Sign-ups for those without appointments: 
Tuesday, September 20 
through 
Friday, September 23 
at LaFortune Information Desk 
., Portraits will be scheduled for week ofSeptember 26th. 
' 
Tuesday, September 20, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Photo cour18sy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
It has been vintage Joe Montana thus far for the Chiefs. 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 

After Sunday, there were five unbeaten coaches -Don Shula, Dan Reeves, Bobby Ross, Marty Schottenheimer and Barry Switzer, proving once again it's not just the players who win. 
The five have a combined career NFL record of 589-337­7, a .635 winning percentage. Plus two Super Bowl wins (both Shula) four college national championships (Switzer 3, Ross 1), and nine Super Bowl head coaching appearances (Shula 6, Reeves 3) . S hula and Reeves 
PAUL MAINIERI 
NOTRE DAME'S NEW BASEBALL COACH 
SPEAKS ON 
"HOW I SEE THE FUTURE OF NOTRE DAME BASEBALL" 
Wednesday, September 21 7:00p.m. at St. Edward's Hall 
Five NFL unbeatens remain including Chargers and Joe Montana-led Chiefs 
have peerless credentials. Schottenheimer is a winner who's never quite gotten over the top. Switzer and Ross are college coaches trying to estab­lish reputations in the NFL. 
Reeves and Ross are probably the biggest surprises, 3-0 with the Giants and Chargers, two teams supposed to hover some­where around .500. 
The Giants lost a ton of players from the team with which Reeves worked wonders -to retirement (Lawrence Taylor), to free agency (three-fourths of last year's secondary) and to the salary cap (Phil Simms). 
But they didn't lose Reeves. 
"Dan Reeves won't let his team lose," Taylor said Sunday after the Giants beat Washington 31-23. 
That was typical of Reeves. Without Rodney Hampton, his heavy-duty back, he simply plugged in Dave Meggett, and Meggett rushed for 82 yards, caught four passes for 52 more and capped it off with a 16­yard touchdown pass to Aaron Pierce. 
More important, Reeves has been brilliant with Simms' replacement -Dave Brown. After three games, Brown has completed 62.5 percent of his passes and has a Montana­esque rating of 101.1. 
He also has something of Joe Montana's poise. On Sunday, he watched the field, calmly ducked under a rusher and found Mike Sherrard between two defenders for a 30-yard touchdown. 
San Diego, meanwhile, had 
lost its top two receivers 
(Anthony Miller and Nate 
Lewis) and top rusher (Marion Butts). 
Ross, with Natrone Means replacing Butts and a covey of receivers replacing Miller, took his Chargers into Seattle in a surprising showdown against the Seahawks for first place in the AFC West. 
They won 24-10 on two key plays that demonstrated some coaching flare. 
One was a 99-yard Stan Humphries to Tony Martin TD pass after a sack that backed the Chargers up to the l-inch line. The other was a blitz that forced Rick Mirer to throw with Junior Seau in his face and was returned 73 yards for a touch­down by Stanley Richard, his second interception return for a TD in three games. 
As for the others ... 
Shula is only the NFL's all­time winningest coach and still on top of things at 64. "Too bad," Buffalo's Jim Kelly mut­tered Sunday when he was told the Dolphins had beaten the Jets in their battle of unbeat­ens, telling you all you need to know about whom the Bills fear in the AFC Eaat. 
Schottenheimer, who has lost three AFC championship games (two to Reeves), always seems on the verge of shedding his reputation as a coach who will get his team to the playoffs but not beyond. 
If he can keep Montana healthy and Marcus Allen rela­tively rested, he has a great shot this year -Derrick Thomas (four sacks, three forced fumbles, two recoveries the last two weeks) looks like he's finally ready to become Lawrence Taylor. 

Oriental Garden 

Restaurant ~it~~ 
Located on the North Side of Sam's Club 
Ope~~o~r~llshir~e
Plaza, Mishaw~i::In 11-8 Sat 4-8 or Carry Out Closed Sunday 273-4290 All food cooked in Heart Healthy Canola Oil NoMSG 
Full Chinese menu plus a r--------,
I 15% OFF I 

select ofJapanese and I I
I When you show your I Korean appetizers. I STUDENT ID I I or bring in this ad. I 
Accept Visa, Am. Ex, MC, and Discover 
L--------.J 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 


Jerusalem 
Spring 1995 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH ON-SITE DIRECTORS FATHER DENIS MADDEN AND JIMVENZA 
Wednesday, September 21, 1994 4:30P.M. 245 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER 15, 1994 
-----~

~~-~---~ -------------------~---~­
page 14 
Golf 
continued from page 16 
overall," said assistant coach Tom Hanlon. "We took some positive things away with us." 
Michigan State, the eventual 
champion, only lead the Irish 
by six strokes heading into the 
final round. Shannon and 
Melby shot 78 and 77 respec­
tively, in the first round to 
highlight the tournament. 
"We were really in a position 
to win," said Hanlon. 
Another good performance was turned in by the Irish freshman as Tracy Melby tied for seventh place with a score of 163, while Katie King took eigth place with a 164. 
"King and (Tracy) Melby con­tinue to show outstanding poise in in just their freshman year." said Hanlon. 
The Irish will play in the Michigan State ~Spartan Invitational Next weekend hop­ing to turn the tables on the Spartans who beat them by 16 strokes at Ferris State. 


The Observer • SPORTS 
. ..· weekly news .. Alvarez was asked if . . year. Bevell was •nu•...-··•
N 

any special advice for ju"'"Wcepted five times in a 28·21 nior quarterback Darrell defeat at Minnesota.lt was·.. ·. Beven, who threw four inter;, ··?•·Wisconsin's lone loss in a 10­-·~·~ ....~ ...r.· ,, captions in the first hal(!h·t season. 
\i .against the Buffaloes. .~-Alvarez was asked what he '~No.'' Alvarez replied, ;::}thought or the Badgers' skid. Beven has proven be ·from lOth to 16th in the rP.ctlver from that type of Associated Press. poll following 
...........,.....'t put all · ss to 
Tuesday, September 20, 1994 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
alternate positions. 
The Belles have been work­ing on their serve returns during this week's practice in order to create a quicker offense, according to fresh­man Arwen Dickey. 
"We have been playing well for a young team," said Dickey. "We need to be more intense." 

Tuesday, September 20 7--9 p.m. Monogram Room Joyce A. C. C. 
• 
Andersen Consulting 

• 
Arthur Andersen 

• 
Baxter Healthcare Corp. 

• 
Dean Witter 

•GE 
Aircraft Engines 

•Goldman 
Sachs 

• 
International Paper 

• 
LaSalle National Bank 

• 
Merrill Lynch 


Firms attending: 
• 
NBD Illinois 

•The 
Northern Trust Company 

• 
Northwestern Mutual Life 

•Old 
Kent 


•OLDE 
Discount Stockbrokers 

• 
PNC Financial 

• 
Peterson Consulting 

• 
Procter & Gamble 

• 
SEI Corporation 


Seniors: Bring Resumes! Underclass: All Welcome To Talk To Firms 
BUSINESS ATTIRE 
Refreshments will be provided 
[7:30 FRIDAY NIGHT! J
Unde -FEET -ed 

NOTRE DAME 
vs•
.. 

INDIANA

Sit back with some friends and enjoy the SIX FEET of aSUBWAY ·' party sub while watching the third-ranked, unde-FEET-ed Notre Dame 


Alumni Field-Behind the J.A.c.c. 
women's soccer team play host to Indiana at 7:30 Friday night. 
ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 
Tuesday, September 20, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
l3•l>lj WoP.l'"> l3mER IN~E Wl-ll\1'·~ N•T To 6E.-r. 'RuNNIN' STA"\ 1-\EA~"Tl\~. ~ou Fe.o;~ \(_EE.f><, 1•-' 1-\EAI-TH"\·l<'vroN oN(, 
WilEr< L.\•v 'Sffl'1 L(ou FEE-L "BE-rrER .. · 
HFA,LTH\.4. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
ll'l  ~ SCIEI'lllt\C. t-'1\'SSION  Ta  \liE /•JK~OR Cf>.,\C\\t:S  
DISCOWR 'N\.\f\1 \-\P..PI'tl'lS VM~N  00 (>.. \1\lLS\DE!  
WJO \>l(l.t-.ID'S COLL\OE, SPP..C£.­ S?\l'F OOWt-\S\.1\H':;  
\v\1\~  SPliT  DROPS P.l'lC\-\OR!  P.ND GUl--lS  b  
Tt\t. MOTOR !  ~  

DILBERT 
l'f"\ GOING TO TAKE. CLASSES AT NIGI-IT AND GE1 AN fii.BA. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Buddy 5 Balance sheet 
listing 10 Helper: Abbr. 14 New Rochelle 
college 15 They fly in formation 16Wifeof­(Chaucer 
pilgrim) 17 Ordnance 18 Fill with glee 19 Out of the 
weather 20 Battle in which Lee defeated Pope 23 Sunday talk: Abbr. 24Activity 
25 Fountain treat, for short 
26 Battle in which Bragg defeated Rosecrans 
31 Singer Coolidge et al. 32 Corner 33 11th-century date 36 Heaven on earth 
37 Change 
39 Earth sci. 40 Marry 41 Fine poker holdings 42 Hawks 
43 Battle in which Grant defeated Bragg 46 John Wilkes Booth, e.g. 50 Tempe sch. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
I DON'T NEED A BIG­NAME SCHOOL I't'\ IN \HlS FOR Y-.NOWLEDGE, 
NOT PRESIIGE. 
51 Items on a "must" list 
52 Battle in which Lee defeated Burnside 
57 Retread, e.g. 58 Go along (with) 59 Wrang_ler's pal 61 Overlook 62 Some are heroic 63 Mideast land 64 Promontory 65 Kilmer opus 66 Nino's nothing 
DOWN 
1 Spy grp. 2 Baseball, 
informally 3 Not deserved 4 Notfem. 5 Work to do 6 Infrequently 7 Petticoat 
junction a"C6mo­usted?" 9 Chelsea 
Clinton, e.g. 10 Embarrass 11 Nacho topping 12 Rib-eye 13 Ones nearby 21 Dumbarton ­
(1944 meeting site) 22P.D.Q. 23ltem in a hardware bin 

29 Coffee server 30 Start for fly or about 33 Three-hanky film 34 City once named for Stalin 35 Rick's beloved et al. 37 Herr's "Oh!" 
38 "Cry-River" 
39 General Motors make 
1-\0W ABOUT 
"10N'<'S HOUSE. OF f'\BA5"? 
41 Parcel of land 
42 High-hat 44 Words before "I'm yours" 45 Tax 
46 "Sweet" river of 

THE. BABE f\ATIO IS 
BETTE.\\ AT "I'IBA-0-RA/'\A... 
) 
48 Actress Garr et al. 
49 Playwright 
Clifford 

53 Engrossed 
54 Mr. Stravinsky 
55 Saskatchewan 
tribe


28 Nuclear experiment 

ll'<'\I>ERCt.PI\8L'{ 11-.T FIRST, \liE PLt>..l--\.U S\..OWL'{ lv\0~5, TOWED ~LONG 8'1 0\JR 1-\EI<O. \JI'lT\L ,, 
BILL WATTERSON 
,.. BRHK\NG ORgiT, PL!I-.N'C:\ 10 PICKS UP SPEED, 1-\VRUN<J 
IOWP..RD PlPo.l--\.E\ 5 .' 
song 

56 Atop 47 Record blot 60 Kind of testing 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
5656 (75¢ each minute). 


The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. Make checks payable to and mail to: 
The Observer POBoxQ Notre Dame, IN  46556  
D  Enclo sed is $60 for one academic year.  
D  Enclo sed is $35 for one semester.  
Name Address City  State  Zip  

r 
; ! 
SPORTS 

The Observer/Eric Reuthling 
Goalie Bert Bader and the Irish face conference foe Detroit Mercy. 
•Gm..w: 


page 16 Tuesday, September 20, 1994 
• SOCCER 

Seniors set to rebound for Irish 
need to continue playing with points. On the defensive endKey conference the same intensity that they they boast the 1993 Newcomer showed against the Musketeers of the Year in the M.C.C. in
games ahead and play better defense than goalkeeper Kal Kaliszewski. they showed against thefor men Huskies. Lineup changes for the Irish "We have to reestablish the may include the second
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
defense," Adkisson explained. straight start for sophomore
Sports Writer 

"With a stronger defense our midfielder Chris Mathis. offense will be better." On the injury front, Bill Lanza
After losing their first confer­
is not expected to be back for a 
ence game last week to 
The Titans enter this game as little longer. He did not play in 
Northern Illinois, the (3 -2) 
a legitimate contender as they the game against the
Notre Dame men's soccer team 
won back to back games Musketeers, and in the loss to 
understands that they cannot 
against Michigan State and the Huskies he complained of
afford to give away anymore 
Western Michigan. still having some knee discom­
conference games. The play­
They are led by 1993 First fort. 
ers that understand this the 
Team all-M.C.C. forward "His knee is still botheringmost are the seniors. 
Radek Papiez who is one of the him," Berticelli said. "I guess
In the dominating win over 
offensive leaders with three he's not ready." 
Xavier last Sunday, it was the seniors that were the most prominent. Both seniors Tim Oates and Keith Carlson led the way for the Irish as they assisted each other to the first four goals of the game. 
When the Irish play (2 -2 -1) Detroit Mercy tonight at 7:30 at Alumni Field, they will need the continued leadership of the seniors if they are to avoid los­ing another crucial conference game. 
"Detroit Mercy is an impor­tant game," senior sweeper Kevin Adkisson said. "It's a conference game, and we can't afford to lose it." The Observer/John Bingham 
If they are going to win, they Senior Tom Oates is ready for tonight's shootout with Detroit Mercy. 

Irish women golfers garner a second place finish; men struggle in thin Colorado air at Air Force 
By JOE VILLINSKI came down to the short game last week­Sports Writer end," said Thomas. "The players lacked the courage to hit a lot of puts." 
The air was thin and the scenery could Minnesota took the team title with 887 not have been more beautiful. strokes, three ahead of second-place Unfortunately for the Notre Dame Kansas. Michigan's Chris Brockwaymen's golf team, those picturesque con­took medalist honors at 219, one stroke 
ditions were not condusive to low scores 
ahead of Aaron Barber of Minnesota. as the Irish headed out west to Colorado The Irish travel to play in the Geneva Springs last weekend to compete in the National Invitational next weekend in Air Force Falcon Invitational. 
Wisconsin. In addition, there will also There, the Irish placed 19th out of 24 be some changes in the Irish lineup teams in its first tournament of the year. 
there. Sophomore Brian Donohoe tied for 28th with a three-round total of 226, while "We are going to do everything we can senior Chris O'Connell tied for 79th with to establish a solid team for our tough a 236. spring schedule," commented Thomas. The Irish lady linksters also competed in 
Problems with the short game plagued tournament match play last weekend as the men through the whole tournament. they finished second in a 13-team field Because of the unusual terrain and at the Ferris State University
backdrop, the inordinate number of puts 
Invitational. caused the team score to fall. "It was a magnificent golf facility," said Completing the two rounds with a 638 men's head coach George Thomas. stroke count, the Irish were lead by 
"However, everything broke away from senior Katie Shannon and junior Julie the mountains, making putting problem­Melby. Both placed third with a score of atic." 
156. Despite falling short, the Irish drives "The team really played pretty well were sizzling during the tournament. 
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
"We drove the ball well, but everyting
Junior Julie Melby earned a third place tie. see GOLF I page 14 

Sports extra 
Monday Night Football 
Detroit goes the distance to beat Dallas in 
Look in Friday's Observer for 
overtime, 20-1 7. 

.. 
Purdue pull-out.
See page 11 



