'' 
'.' 

True calling for women comes from God 
By KRISTI KOLSKI 
News Writer 
Women do not need to be ordained by the Church because they can ordained by God, Edwina Gateley told an audience last night in the Ilesburgh Library Auditorium. 
In a lecture entitled "One Women's Story, A Journey of Faith." Gateley. a writer, poet and missionary, chronicled her life history and perseverance to achieve faith in a world that is constantly pulling in the oppo­site direction. 
Gateley said that her calling comes from a feeling "deep within her belly." Yet, at the same time, a fear exists in our head that cause us to ratio­nalize away our impulse to do what is right. 
Society, the media, and politi­cians are constantly "telling us to be the best, build defenses, fly your flag the highest and stay on top" in order to retain security, Gateley stated. 
However. according to Gateley, Jesus does not want us to worry about security and defenses or remaining big and strong, but that we need to "take care of the little ones." 
She continued with the idea that we must all stand up to what has become status quo. We must stand up all of our lives because "we cannot com­promise the gospel and we must always be on the journey" towards faith. 
Gateley began her journey in Uganda were she worked for three years as a lay woman. Her entry into Africa, however. was not an easy path. She first went to the Bishop in Britain in hopes that he would guide her. He only responded with the idea that she "must first join a congregation." The Bishop then proceeded to explain that 




Fall Festival: A chance to help the neighbors 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Writer 
Sign-ups for Fall Festival '94 will be held today and tomor­row in the dining halls, Kevin Carroll, executive assistant of the festival, announced at the Hall Presidents Council meet­ing last night. 
The festival, in which Notre Dame students work with South Bend residents to beauti­fy the Northeast Neighborhood, will be held November 5. 
"It's similar to an urban re­newal project," Carroll said. 
Participants will be planting bulbs donated by the University and cleaning up residential yards and parks for the local children. 
"It's a great way for students to get involved in the South Bend community," Karen DuBay, chairperson of the festival, said. "It gives students and local residents a better understanding of each other and helps break down the stereotypes that they have of one another." 
Open to everyone connected to the University, the festival will be followed by a block party for volunteers and resi­dents. 
Over 400 students partici­pated last year. and DuBay is hoping for even more participation this year. 
Sign-ups will also be held on Tuesday, November 1, and on Wednesday, November 2. 
Volunteers can also sign up at the Center for Social Concerns or at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
In other HPC news: 
-Advertisements for the Weekend Wheels program are up, according to Hilary Bonen­berger, co-chairperson of the HPC. 
"It's up and running," Bo­nenberger said. "We encour­age everyone to use it." 
-Seinfest '94, a campus-wide comedy and talent show, will be held Nov. 3 in the LaFortune ballroom. Admission is $1. 
-The deadline for The Shirt '95 entries is November 21. Entrants must include a sketch of their design no larger than 12"x15" and must incorporate a theme. 
Entries can be submitted to the Student Activities Office, located at 315 LaFortune. 
The winner's textbooks for the spring semester will be free. Some previous designs are now on display in the east hallway of The Huddle. 
-Toad the Wet Sprocket will be performing on campus Nov. 
10. Tickets will go on sale after fall break 
Returning to Britain, Gateley felt a burning desire to start a lay missionary movement. She . however, did not receive the blessing to do so from the Cardinal or the church. 
The missionary communities around Britain convened and decided to grant Gateley a house to use and 6,000 dollars. With these provisions she start­ed the Voluntary Missionary Movement. The group even­tually grew to encompass 500 men and women from 26 coun­tries around the world. It was at that point the Bishop came and blessed her movement. 
With the growing support of her movement, Gateley had achieved success and recogni­tion but she had a feeling that she was "buying into the system and that she should move on." 
At this point, Gateley had a another feeling in her belly to head to America. She knew she · had to again withdrawal from the safety and security of her life in Britain and the successes she had achieved. 
She came to Chicago and entered the seminary. She emerged six years later with a degree in Theology. However,the church has boxes and cate­this was not enough. .
gories into which everyone Gateley proceeded to pur­
must fit. 
chase a trailer and she spentGately relied on the power of nine months living in the God to follow her calling. She woods. She come to the real­stated that "God is like a ization that "we must be broken refugee looking for cracks in 

to understand our resur­
the walls of our institutions, in rection." 
our society and in our confi­dence." 
see GATELEY I page 3 


Pulitzer 
•


winner visits ND 
BY HOLLY BUCHAN 
News Writer 
"He knocked peoples' socks off, they were openly weep­ing," said Professor Valerie Sayers, director of the Notre 
~t~::rft~~~ i. 
~,.. wr...... , 
program, of Robert Olen Butler's perfor­mance on the Notre Dame cam­pus last Robert Olen year. Butler 
Butler, a 1993 Pulitzer prize winner for his collection of short stories "A Good Scent From A Strange Mountain," will join Notre Dame once again tonight at 
7:30 in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Butler, described by Sayers as a "fabulous reader" will read from his most recent works as part of his week long visit to the Notre Dame Creative Writing Department. Butler will also be visiting the Vietnam Experience class dis­cussing and consulting with students about his Pulitzer prize winning book in which 

see BUTLER I page 3 


Nuclear deal leaves questions 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The U.S.-North Korea nu­clear deal brings within reach a central Clinton administration goal of stopping production of nuclear weapons. But it leaves unanswered a big question: Is North Korea already nuclear armed? 
In hailing the agreement Tuesday, President Clinton did not mention North Korea's cur­rent nuclear capabilities, but he said the accord would bring an "end to the threat of nuclear proliferation on the Korean Peninsula." 
Earlier this year, the adminis­tration had threatened to push for United Nations economic sanctions against North Korea to force it to reveal its past nuclear activities. But now it is willing to wait several years to get the answer. 
Clinton said the important thing was that North Korea would not make more weapons, and that a U.N. nuclear watch· dog agency would be allowed to verify the ban. 
Clinton said he was sending Robert Gallucci, the chief U.S. negotiator on the deal, back to Geneva on Friday to sign the accord, which the president said included U.S. agreement to ease long-standing restrictions on trade with North Korea. 
Clinton also said the United States and North Korea would move toward establishing liai­son offices in each other's capi­tal -a step that could lead to creating full diplomatic rela­tions. 

The CIA believes North Korea probably has built and stashed away one or two nuclear weapons. Would the Koreans use them? Would they threaten to? Such weapons would have little military utility, but even one crude bomb could be an effective terror weapon. 
Gallucci said no one outside North Korea really knows whether that country has a nuclear bomb. The importance of the agreement is that North Korea has agreed not to restart its existing nuclear reactor or to resume use of a facility that is designed to extract plutoni­um from fuel rods used in the reactor, he said. 
The North also would eventu­ally dismantle two reactors now under construction, he said. 
The apparent logic of the change in the U.S. approach is that U.N. sanctions, if imposed at all, would more likely lead to war on the Korean Peninsula than make the communist North bend to the will of the international community. 
A better approach, the administration seems to have decided, is to sow the seeds of a new political relationship with the North and hope that trust blooms. If the decades of hostil­ity between North and South, and between Washington and Pyongyang, can be ended, maybe nuclear threats will dis­appear, too. 
In the agreement announced by U.S. negotiators in Geneva on Monday, North Korea would freeze its nuclear program and allow the resumption of inter­national inspections of facilities suspected of developing nuclear weapons. That would ensure, at least on paper, that the North would make no new bombs. 
In exchange, North Korea­which denies its nuclear work is intended to make bombs ­would receive two modern nuclear power plants for the production of electricity. 
The North also would get new diplomatic links to the United States, which has never for­mally recognized the North since it established itself as a separate, communist nation in 1945 under postwar Soviet di­rection. 
The lead Korean negotiator, Kang Sok Ju, said the agree­ment should resolve "once and for all" the nearly two years of tension over his country's nuclear ambitions. 
U.S. scholars who study North Korea say it's too early to declare the problem solved. Some said in interviews Tuesday they are optimistic that the worst of the crisis has passed, but others said some aspects of the deal are trou­bling. 
Selig Harrison, a longtime Korea watcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said that while he wants to study details yet to be pub­licly released, he expects this will prove to be a "very impor­tant turning point." 
"It shows North Korea is 'I ready to give up its nuclear program," he said. 
~--~-~---­
----------------,-----------­
-. ' . . . . .. --~~~~--~~---------------­
~ 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Yes, We play hard too 
Football, football, foot­ball. Our media, our country, and our schools are crazed with the sport. Today, I will share with you my thoughts on this past weekend's games. No, not the commercial­ized nation wide Notre Dame-BYU upset, but the smack talking, butt slap­ping, end zone dancing interhall football games. 
It all started when a friend of mine asked me to come watch him play in a friendly interhall game on Sunday. There was nothing I wanted to do more than take a walk across both campuses on such a beautiful autumn day. Wanting to be fashion­ably late, I lingered in the distance until the other groupies arrived. Getting my friend's attention was more difficult than I imagined. He seemed to turn around for a split second and with total confidence in myself I smiled and waved profusely. However, the wave suddenly turned into a hair flip when he turned his back around without acknowledg­ing me. 
Okay, maybe he didn't see me. That's cool, I'll just get a little bit closer. By the way, he invited me here. He turned around again for the second time. This time I tried the laid back approach. Shot down again. Maybe he doesn't have his contacts on, but I didn't think he wore glasses? I finally gave up and walked directly behind him and tapped him on his padded shoulder. "Hi, I made it after all." 
"I'm sorry, we are not allowed to talk to civilians when we stand on the side line," he grunted through his teeth. 
Was he joking? I almost laughed in his face, but there was a look of sincerity in his eyes. Did he mistake Stepan for the Rose Bowl? I stepped back due to the dirty looks from the rest of the team and stared long and hard as I contemplated this "friendly" recreation. 
This game was not friendly at all. In fact, it was one of the most competitive pastimes I have witnessed in a while. The constant sound of helmets colliding and players groan­ing gave the match such a personal, not to mention terrifying, effect. One player made a key tackle and out of excitement he bent down on one knee and started fiddling in the air as if he were playing a violin, what's up with that? After a touchdown, the receiver masqueraded around flapping his arms in the air, signaling the crowd to stand, though we were to begin with. 
These games are not for fun, they are intense competitions that are dearly taken to heart. Interhall football is the last childhood vestige for the men playing in the games. Not to mention the fellow dorm members border­ing the sidelines clapping and chanting such refrains as, "Who's your Daddy? Your don't know do you?" They add such a special touch. Where else could you go to watch a priest dressed in "domer" sports gear chain-smok­ing on the sideline, screaming for his gang? 
All and all, it was an exceptional way to spend a Sunday. It almost gave me that warm nostalgic high school feeling. I wanted to do cartwheels and scream, "Go Knights?" If only they could have played Springsteen's "Glory Days" in the background, my day would have been complete. I think next Sunday I might make my way over to a girls game, a reliable source told me they are even more aggressive. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Dave Tyler Nicky Baril! Amy Schmidt 
Production Sports Kira Hutchinson Tom Schlidt Tara Grieshop Graphics Accent Zoe Marin Shannon Johnston 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, October 19, 1994 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Southeastern Texas floods blamed for death of seven 
HOUSTON 

ue at least until
Texas flooding 
A firefighter's coat draped Wednesday. Flash-flood

Flash flood warnings and watches were in effect 
over her shoulders, Oma 

for abroad area of southeast Texas as rain fell warnings were issued McCalister clutched her metal 
for a third straight day Tuesday. An estimated across a wide area. 10,000 people evacuated their homes and more
cane and a few other posses­

"It ain't over yet,
than 30 counties are threatened by floods.
sions Tuesday as she was lift­ 
ed in a rescue boat from  
floodwaters that had reached  •  
doorknob level.  Flash flood warnings  
"In 18 years no water's  CJ Disasterareas  
ever been in my house," said  •  
the 56-year-old Ms.  Flash flood w"•·ninnc  
McCalister, who lives down  and  
the street from Sims Bayou.  
She and thousands more  
across southeast Texas were  
driven out of their homes by  
three days of rain that have  
swollen rivers and other  
waterways.  
The floods were blamed for  
at least seven deaths. Three  
other people, including a 2­ 
month-old boy, were missing  
and presumed drowned.  
In southeastern Houston,  
where Ms. McCalister lives,  

scores of people stood on high L____""""'"" ground Tuesday and flagged down rescue trucks or boats. With daytime nearly as 
dark as night, some people shined flashlights to show their positions. Outside the city, some people were plucked from rooftops. 
About 10,000 people were out of their homes and 30 counties were threatened by floods. The Red Cross opened at least 30 shelters for the homeless 
The storm that hit Sunday brought as much as 30 inches of rain to some areas and was expected to con tin-
Prince Charles faces doomed marriage 
LONDON 

Prince Charles' future subjects are divided as they feast on an official biography revealing the man born to be king as an unhappy child and an anguished husband trapped into a loveless marriage. Lawyers for the 
ill. couple said Tuesday there was "no Ill. truth" in reports Charles and Diana have agreed to get a divorce and a financial settlement. The lawyers issued a joint statement after a French weekly, Voici, said Diana was to get a $38.5 million pay­off. The weekly said the material came from a book to be published next month on Diana. But while doubts remained about a royal divorce, the Charles biography left few with any doubts the marriage is truly over.The prince's aides hope his candor will boost his public image. So far, much reaction is hostile and the gamble isn't paying off. 
Film star Raul Julia suffers stroke 

NEW YORK 
Raul Julia, the star of films like "Kiss of the Spider Woman" and "The Addams Family," suffered a stroke, his agent said Tuesday. "It's too early to comment, but his doctors are very optimistic," agent Jeff Hunter said in 1\ statement. The stroke occurred Sunday in New York. Hunter refused to divulge any other details -including which hospital the actor was in. The 54-year-old actor played Gomez Addams in two films, has starred in sever­al Broadway shows, and appeared in Joseph Papp's acclaimed Shakespeare festival. 
folks," said Ed Schaefer, assistant coordinator for the state Emergency Management Division. "It will probably get worse in terms of impact before it gets better." 
"Pray for these peo­ple," Gov. Ann Richards said after touring the Lake Livingston area about 65 miles northeast of Houston. "There's an awful lot of water out here and a lot of people out of their homes." 
Among the people killed was a man trying to drive through high water in Grimes County, 40 miles north of 
=:::;;;:::~:!] Houston. His pickup was APtwm. J. Castello swept into a creek. /In Houston, all 
entrances to downtown from Interstate 10, the main 
east-west freeway, were under water at midday 
Tuesday. Other freeways leading into the nation's 
fourth-largest city were blocked in places. 

The disaster would probably reach 100-year propor­tions if the rainfall continued into Wednesday, said Art Story, executive director of the Harris County Flood Control District. 
Chocolate beer: Latest London craze 
LONDON 
Beer drinkers and chocolate lovers might cringe, but a big British brewer thinks a marriage will please the palate and go down smooth. Odd as Fuggles Chocolate Mild may sound, the Whitbread Beer Co. of London is introducing the brand in 2,000 British pubs beginning Wednesday. Whitbread is convinced drinkers will be enticed by "a beer you wouldn't think exists." "It's not like a chocolate milkshake," said Lorraine Thomson, marketing manager for Whitbread's ales. Still, not every­body thinks the brownish brew, which contains a hint of chocolate, is a good idea to unleash on Britain's millions of beer drinkers, many of them fiercely loyal to their bit­ters, stouts and lagers. "That's horrible," said Paula Daley, who manages a London pub that admittedly will not be selling the chocolate beer. "It sounds disgusting." While admitting her palate might be jaded to the taste of chocolate she pushes every day, Porter couldn't find any in her glass of Fuggles. "It's got very subtle flavors, but chocolate doesn't come to mind," she said. Whitbread nonetheless believes "people who like good beer, chal­lenging to the palate," will savor the beer, which contains 
4.6 percent alcohol by volume and an "absolutely mini­mal" amount of chocolate flavor. "Puttjng chocolate in a beer is not gimmicky," Thomson said, although she is quick to Whitbread executives said they spent minimal amounts of money, ranging in the thousands of dollars, to develop the beer. So they are in a no-lose situation, even if beer guzzlers and chocolate fans decide they'd rather not mix things up. 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 19. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


VlaAsllocllitedPrea 
Atlanta  75  60  Dallas  82  64  New Orleans 84  71  
Baltimore 71  55  Denver  68  37  New York  67  54  
Boston  64  51  Los Angeles 75  60  Philadelphia 70  54  
Chicago  64  48  Miami  84  71  St. Louis  70  59  
Coldwater 68  55  Minneapolis 57  43  Wethersfield 71  58  

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
',-, ...-. ..-.-.­
--------~.-.-,­
I 1 I I' I 1' It I • 

Wednesday, October 19, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 




Hall closing hurts seniors 
BY PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College Resi­dence Hall Association (RHA) is pleased with the student sup­port of Alcohol Awareness Week and hopes that the sup­port continues through the week. 
Holy Cross Hall's mass and following reception were suc­cesful, according to the Holy Cross RHA representative. 
So far, one hundred Saint Mary's students have pledged to abstain from beer during al­cohol awareness week. 
Residence Hall Advisor Co­lette Shaw feels that the pro­grams are a success and indi­cate the over-all wellness of the Saint Mary's student body. 
Colette Shaw will be leading a discussion concerning alcohol and a woman's sexuality in the Bell Tower Thursday night at seven o'clock; it promises to be "informative and titillating" ac­cording to Shaw. 
Saint Mary's student Sandy Penska will be delivering a lec­ture about the effects of alcohol on women Wednesday night at seven o'clock in the Regina North Lounge. 
The RHA and SAB sponsored Halloween Party will be held at Dalloway's on Monday, October 
31. There will be a pumpkin 


Peter Davis 
Renowned Documentary Filmmaker 
Presents His Latest Work: 
In Darkest Hollywood: 
Cinema and Apartheid 
A Social History of South Africa Seen Through the Movies 


Tonight! 
7:00 p.m., Room 141, DeBartolo 
Sponsored by African & African-American Studies, Communication & Theatre Department, Notre Dame African Students Association 
decorating contest, and the winner will be awarded a gift certificate or care package. 
A discussion will be held con­cerning senior housing and the closing of Augusta Hall November third in Stapleton Lounge. 
Many juniors are upset over the closing of the hall because it offered a lot of senior hous­ing. Next year, the convent will expand into the hall. 
A final Sesquicentennial pho­tograph will be taken in front of Le Mans Hall on Tuesday, November first. It will be shown December eighth on Good Morning America. 
Gateley 
continued from page 1 
After nine months, Gateley nearly quit. Yet, her persever­ance guided her to an awaken­ing. She now understands what could not comprehend back then. 
"We f!IUSt endure a gestation of darkness to come into the light." At times she felt like "aborting God's calling because she felt the need to understand right away. 
However, her ability to with­stand the darkness gained her an understanding of God and a sense of her true calling. After nine months there was a new feeling within her, calling her to come to the aid of prosti tutes. 
Gateley feared this calling for she had no experience with prostitutes. According the Gateley, God had called her to 
fRifNOS DON'T lH 


,~~~-~. Festival '9 I 
J ~ ..,., The Northeast Neighborhood Rejuvination Project 
Saturday, November 5th Fall Festival is a one-day service project to show Notre Dame's support for the South Bend Community. 
Students and residents will work together to beautify the Northeast Neighborhood by planting flowers and cleaning the interiors and exteriors of local homes. 
The project will be followed by a block party for all volunteers. 
If you are interested in being a part of Fall Festival '94, sign up in the dining halls, the CSC, or the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Any Questions, please call Karen DuBay at 271-8992. 
Butler 
continued from page 1 
he explored the lives of Vietnamese who immigrated to the United States following the Vietnam War. 
The Chicago Tribune said of his Pulitzer prize winning work, "Butler's achievement is not only to reveal the inner lives of the Vietnamese, but to show through their eyes how the rest of us appear. 
Sayers believes Butler is best known for his tremendous range of international themes that run throughout his books including, "American popular culture, gender issues, religion, and the clash between tradition ~nd new culture." He has pub­
"move forward towards the edge of the cliff in order to experience God's miracles." 
Although frightening, we must move out of our secure world and to the edge of the abyss on faith, she said. 
By removing her security, strength and resources, Gateley was able to gain an entrance into the world of the prosti­tutes. She become friends with the prostitutes and she was able to help them "take off the masks and find the children" behind the tough girls of the streets. 
Gateley discovered that 97% of the prostitutes she met had been victims of incest and emo­tion/physical abuse. Most of the women had turned to the streets to "cover up the child that was never allowed to be a child." 
With this understanding, Gateley started the Genesis house in Chicago as a place for new beginnings.•currently, 7,000 women a year enter the 
fRifNOS DRIVf DRUNK 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $4995 , now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on ND football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634~1740 


TOWING SERVICE 

lished seven novels since 1981, his most recent being "The Whisper", praised by the New York Times as "a fully realized and important expression of our era." 
Butlers works can be found in "The Best of American Short Stories" and "New Stories From the South." His notoriety as a respected writer has won him the 1993 Guggenheim Fellowship for Fiction and the Rosenthal Foundation Award, given by the American Academy of Arts and Letters. 
Sayers is delighted to have a Pulitzer prize winner visiting the department and encour­ages anyone interested to stop by tonight or during the week. Butler's reading tonight is free, open to the public and is sure to live up to last year's perfor­mance. 
house "looking for a resurrec­tion." 
To conclude her lecture, Gateley read a poem she had written, ending with the idea that we should see "the woman that [God] has ordained." 
"God will never be boxed in" a cate·gory, she said, and "nei­ther should we." 
We do not have to declare ourselves part of any category to act in a manner pleasing to God. We must only encourage and affirm people in their jour­neys. 

Notre Dame Symphony 
estra will perform a fall 

co'9eert at 8 p.-m. Oct. 19 in the 
University's Washington Hall. T)1e concert is free and open to tb,~ public. 
>.(tu.y Victor Bordo will con­d'IJ.ct.the orchestra in a pro­gramithat includes "Sinfonia in F Major" by C.P.E. Bach, "Silouan's Song," by Arvo Part, "Commedia for (almost) 18th Gentury Orchestra" by William Bqlcolm and "Symphony No. 39¥,.by Wolfgang Amadeus Mot:a.rt. 
Bordo recently rmished hi doctorate in orchestral condu()ting at .Northwestern ~~iyer~tty. He completed . .llis Bll.thelor's and master's degrees in music at the p~Ilversity of Michigan. 'Y He is conductor ot the ~}leboygan Symphony Or~.lles:. tr~ in Sheboygan, WI. "'';';;,:;' 
. ~-~-;.'("·'··: 
OVER 25 YEARS AT 

AUTO • VAN • LIGHT TRUCK SAME LOCATION 
PROFESSIONAL TOWING SERVICE 
•WHEEL LIFT ROLL BACK LOCAL &LONG DISTANCE TOWING 
•JUMP STARTS 

•BRAKES • SHOCKS • EXHAUSTS 
10% OFF TOWING SERVICES WITH STUDENT ID 


COMPLETE AUTO REPAIR SERVICE 
TUNE UPS • CERTIFIED MECHANIC ON DUTY 

AIR CONDITIONING SERVICE COMPLETE ENGINE REPAIR LOCKED OUT? WE CAN HELP! 
277-1970 
Ironwood & Rt. 23 minutes from campus 
..............,.. ,........ ...................,............,. 
0 0 0 0 • • o • t 1 o o I • • 1 • o • • 1 • I • ~ ' t f • I • o ' 1 I I ' • I 0 • I o • ' I I I \ I I : • ~ • ~ •. • ° 0 • • • \ 1> • • ' • o I • • ~ • " • • ' • ' I .' • • ' 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
1,age 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 19, 1994 
.. 


Investment Banking Opportunities at CS First Boston 
CS First Boston, a leading global investment banking firm, will be recruiting for its financial analyst program. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department. All Seniors are invited to attend a presentation. 
Presentation: 
Wednesday, October 19, 1994 The Alumni Room The Morris Inn 6:00p.m. 
Intervierving Schedule: 
Investment Banking 
November 14, 1994 
For further information and inquiries, please contact: 
Greg Miller (212) 909-3061 


CS FIRST BosToN 
..................................... . .. .. . .. . . .. .. .. . . . . . . .
~ 

o, I I o 
''' 
1

1 \\I I I I I I I I I I I I 
'\I '1 I I I 1 I I, t 1 I\ I 1 • 

Wednesday, October 19, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Iraq opens doors to sites 
By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 
Associated Press 

MUSAYYIB, IRAQ 
International sanctions lifted, Iraq opened a missile test site and an explosives factory for a limited tour by the media Tues­day. 
The tour of two munitions plants run by the secretive Military Industrialization Corp. is part of Iraq's campaign to press the U.N. Security Council to begin testing the U.N. sur­veillance system in Baghdad and other Iraqi sites. 
Once the Security Council determines that the weapons­monitoring system works, Baghdad wants the United Nations to rescind the debilita­tive economic sanctions it 
Does your head hurt today, 
~lli£~2 

Happy 21st! 
Love, Fred &KO'C 

IMAGINE YOUR IDEA ON THE BACKS OF 40,000 IRISH FANS 
PLUS FREE BOOKS FOR THE SPRtNG 
DESIGN THE SHIRT '95 
ENTER YOUR CHOICE OF ORIGINAL ARTWORK TO 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 315 LaFORTUNE. 
ENTRIES MUST NOT EXCEED 121' X 15" 
LATEST CONSIDERATION DATE IS NOV. 21, 1994 
SKETCH MUST INCORPORATE A THEME 
EXAMPLES DISPLAYED IN THE EAST HALLWAY OF 
THE HUDDLE INCLUDE: -1990 NOTRE DAME LANDMARKS -1991 150 YEARS OF EXCELLENCE -1992 THE TRADITION CONTINUES 
AND THE TWO MOST POPULAR EVER 
-1993  ONWARD TO VICTORY  
-1994  WAKEUPTHEECHOES  
I'  

-SPRING SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS PAID BY ND BOOKSTORE -ANY SELECTED ENTRY BECOMES PROPERTY OF "THE SHIRT." 
-APPLICANT MUST STATE IN WRITING THAT SUBMITTED 
ARTWORK IS THEIR OWN ORIGINAL WORK. 
imposed on Iraq for invading Kuwait in August 1990. 
"We have an important objec­tive: to lift the sanctions to end the suffering of our people," said Hussam Amin, a missile engineer who directs the liaison office with U.N. monitoring teams. 
The tour occurred during the latest crisis over Saddam Hussein's military actions ­Iraqi soldiers flooded south­ward toward the Kuwaiti bor­der last week before U.S. forces were sent to Kuwait and the Gulf region. 
Saddam's weapons of mass destruction have been disman­tled since the Gulf War but many in the West believe Iraq provoked the confrontation mostly in hopes of getting the sanctions dropped. 
Rolf Ekeus, head of the U.N. Special Commission charged with dismantling Iraq's military programs, says the monitoring system needs a six-month test­ing period, after which it can be considered operational. 
At that point, Iraq asserts, it will have complied with all U.N. requirements about the weapons and should be allowed to resume oil sales, lifeblood of its economy. 
Iraq last month cut govern­ment rations by almost half because of shortages and poor harvests. 
The U.N. agency providing humanitarian aid in Iraq warned a health and food crisis could worsen, the official Iraqi News Agency reported. 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
Future volunteers? 

Students attend an informational meeting given by the Holy Cross Volunteer Program at the Center for Social Concerns yesterday. 

Major will proceed cautiously with IRA 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Prime Minister John Major said Tuesday he would press ahead with "care and caution" to bring peace to Northern Ire­land. 
The Irish Republican Army's political allies, meanwhile, renewed their demand for wholehearted government par­ticipation in the peace process. 
Martin McGuinness, vice president of Sinn Fein, the political party supporting the IRA, called on Britain to remove its troops from Northern Ireland and start talks. 
Major has been pressured to 


JKJlJ]]l
JPCO)]hllJ]]l~)]l 
is 19 Today! 



Happy Birthday! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Fritzie 
Call 284A025 and wish 
her a Happy Birthday! 


great scores 
... 
·--,I 
I I I 
Kaplan helps you focus your GRE studies and bUild your

last chance ' 
confidence so you can get a higher score.

to prepare for the December test 
Last class begins on: November 2, 1994 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 
KAPLAN 
start multi-party talks since the IRA declared a cease-fire seven weeks ago. Pro-British Protestant gunmen declared a truce last week. 
Major said there was "per­haps a better chance than we have known at any time in the last quarter of a century" for a solution. 
"I intend to take the opportu­nities that exist," he said. But Major warned there was no certainty of success. 
Britain must take its opportu­nities "with care, with caution and in our own time," he said, adding that British troops would remain "as long as is necessary." 
. ~~------~----~---~--~----.-,--­



VIEWPOINT 
page 6 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrer Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediwr, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 



Multicultural Affairs responds 
Dear Editor: available to the Saint Mary's gratified that there is such a 
In light of the number of community. great demand on the Saint pieces published recently in Many letters stated that the Mary's and Notre Dame cam­The Observer which contain presentation should have puses for attendance at a pre­erroneous information been scheduled for the Angela sentation by a great African concerning ticket distribution Athletic Facility. In negotia­American writer. for the Maya Angelou presen­tions with Dr. Angelou's I remind members of the tation, I am compelled to agent, it was clearly stated Saint Mary's College and compose this letter. University of Notre Dame 
No tickets to the Maya communities that the door of Angelou presentation were both troubled the Office of Multicultural
'Iam 
sold to any person or group, and gratified by the Affairs is always open to an­and no tickets were distrib­swer questions. I also remind
articles and letters that
uted to any person or group the readership that the Office prior to August 22. Twenty I have read in The of Multicultural Affairs spon­percent of the original num­sors numerous events every
Observer.' 
ber of tickets were reserved semester by equally talented for distribution to local com­persons, but there are usually munity groups and organi­that she will not perform in more seats than people. I sin­zations; e.g. local schools, me­an athletic facility without a cerely hope that in the future dia, African American number of costly modifica­we can generate this kind of organizations, and to Notre tions to such a facility. interest even though the Dame's Office of Multicultural I am both troubled and speaker might not be an Student Affairs and alumnae. gratified by the articles and international celebrity. 
Fifteen percent of the tick­letters that I have read in The ets were reserved for mem­Observer. I am troubled be­MARICELA RAMIREZ bers of the general communi­cause no writer has attempt­Director ty and available on a first ed to contact this office for Office ofMulriculrural Affairs come, first served basis. The clarification before publishing Saint Mary's College remaining tickets were made incorrect information. I am 

Who checks up on Student Affairs? 
Dear Editor: protecting student rights and interests on a 
A week and a half ago I submitted a resolu­daily basis. tion in the Student Senate, aimed at protecting My resolution seeks to form a commission the interests of students. I am writing this let­that will be the watchdog of student rights and ter to explain my efforts and ask for your sup­interests. The commission would document port. abuses by Student Affairs and periodically 
We know that Student Affairs is virtually report its findings. The people that serve on unchecked in its authority over all aspects of this commission will be focused on student Student Life. The potential for abuses by rights and interests. We would work on your Student Affairs is outlined in detail in du Lac. I behalf and in your interest. believe that we must do something about this The student senate will meet to discuss this frightening fact. issue at 4:30 on Wednesday October 19 in the 
Unfortunately, Student Government at Notre Notre Dame Room on the 2nd floor of La Dame is far too concerned with how to spend Fortune. l encourage you to stop by and sup­the student activities fee. While Student port this effort for student empowerment Government should not be faulted for fulfilling this responsibility, who is protecting our inter­TOM MATZZIE ests? Who is working against Student Affairs? Interim FCC President Unfortunately, the answer is that no one is Sophomore 


ND's private battle: Higher learning vs. warped reality 
Dear Editor: 
I used to find myself continually asking "Why here?" I found myself entangled in a web of pervasive negativity: racism, homophobia, sex­ism, general trivialization of the important, and the bloating of the triv­ial. I find myself still asking this question, but more in a context of what I can do when up against so cunning and overwhelming a social force as there is here. 
I was recently horrified by the circumstances surrounding two inci­dents on campus. First, the 'fags must die' epithet scrawled by some close-minded fascist in the name of God. Where is the Administration on this! Here is an opportunity to show that Catholicism no longer sup­ports genocidal trends. Once again, they have flown from reality, and chosen not to be real leaders. 
Secondly, this entire issue of the sexist portrayal of women found in hall notes. The very existence of any such grotesque literature reveals a certain unreal, inhuman psychological bent of this so-called place of higher learning. I had to bitterly laugh at the scrambled response of dorm representatives, etc. Rather than acknowledge this trend towards woman bashing, they pulled in the drawbridge to their respective little dorm worlds. 
Sometimes, I wonder if there are any other people on this campus that have my viewpoint. I see people rushing straight lines to their classes, and I notice when people are "too busy" to hold a real con­versation with me. I beg, 1 plead, I refuse to accept this schools warped version of reality. I see blindness, I acknowledge this close­minded syndrome. I ask you to take a stand for something. I love the individuals of this school. I despise the masses of business clad pseudo­scholars bent on continuing the corporate slavery and destruction of our world. Take a stand. 
DAVID MCMAHON 
Junior 
Dismas House 
THANK;;, M/K&. I'M HAPPY
11./E/L.OME 8AO< 7V OAY 7H!<f3l3 
70 TR.Y 7V EXPLAIN 7Ht: IOEA
OFNA770NAl-"OiARACT/31<. 
OFR£5POIV5!!3/IJTY, !JUTtf!HATIF
aJUNTS"OAY/ TOOAY'5 Plt..L.AR. 
:£c:AN'Tf WHATIF I CAN'T
6 R&SPONS/!3/UTf-AS&x­
aJMt:UPtf/fTHA M&ANING­
PLAINEO BY OUR GaJO fRIENO 
R./1-, WJI<I</NG OERN/7/0N<
MARK-' 
/ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
/AI&U,TOO /3AOi I fit!Vt:A 
NUL-, tu&'Vt' 
f?IJNOUTOF

I'Vt:MAaA aJMMITMENT OWl-Y, YOU 
SPAa/ IT's

ANOI HAVe 7V f{()NJR. IT/ HAVEN'T. 
NOTMYFAUf-.T.I
I 
\ 
• Qmrn: Of THE llAY 
,,.once the law starts asking questions, there's no stopping them." 
-WilliamS. Burroughs 
1 I\ I L' I I I 1 \}.,1 ,·
· r' • • I I 

•J 
i 
I I 
I 
~ 
I I 
~ 
I Wednesday, October 19, 1994 page 7 I j 



ACCENT I 
I 
l 
l
Big Brothers & Big Sisters 
Students reach out to local children 
By SHANNON FORBES later Big Sisters was formed Accent Writer through a South Bend Concerned Women's group. In 
Children grow up fast. 1973 both groups merged into Within the brief period of time one program and secured that they are children, interac­funding through the United tion with positive adult role Way. United Way funds the models is essential. Most Notre majority of the program's an­Dame and Saint Mary's stu­nual budget. Other income is dents are fortunate enough to generated from contributions understand the beneficial and fund raisers. effects of adult friendship and The program is now orga­guidance. nized through the Center for 
Such relationships can Social Concerns. Junior Kyle influence a childs development. Scheidler is involved in Notre Unfortunately, not all children Dame's Big Brother program have positive adult role models and deems the program a in their lives. Luckily. many great success. "It is a satisfy­people within the Saint Joseph ing feeling for both the volun­community recognize this teer and the child to learn from problem and are working to each other's experiences." correct the situations. 
Scheidler has developed a 

Big Brothers/ Big Sisters of close friendship with his little Saint Joseph County is a not­brother, Terrell. Their time for-profit social service organi­together consists of a tutoring zation dedicated to befriending session and a recreation ses­children. ages six to thirteen, sion where the two play from single-parent homes. Nintendo, roller-skate, or 
According to Chris Collins, a engage in other activities on junior participant in the pro­campus. gram, the goal of the Big "Both the volunteer and the Brothers! Big Sisters program child benefit from the relation­is to help children develop pos­ship" Scheidler said. itive personal growth. By This month Big Brothers/ Big enabling them to interact with Sisters of Saint Joseph County adult volunteers, on a one-to­is celebrating twenty-five years one basis, with professional of successful matches between supervision and support ser­adults and area youth. vices they tend to show improvement. 
Festivities include a luncheon

October 14 at South Bend's Collins explained that many Century Center. The luncheon, interview and home visit, a es is 2 1/2 years. The program Jennifer, meet once a week for of these children often_experi­hosted by WNDU news anchor, personality profile test, and a asks for commitment of at least two to four hours. Their activi­ence difficulties in social situa­Maureen McFadden, will high­volunteer training session. one year because many chil­ties include eating dinner to­tions, school settings, and with­light successful matches. The Volunteers are required to dren have already experienced gether, watching movies, and in the community in general. luncheon will also feature the spend three to five hours a great losses and desperately doing homework. "My rela­
The service believes that the opening of an art project spon­week with the child. need a secure and stable rela­tionship with Jennifer has ex­friendship, companionship, and sored by the South Bend tionship. In many cases, a one­posed me to different types of guidance of a caring adult can Regional Art Museum. The "The matching process is rig­year commitment results in a children and in doing so has 
make a positive difference in twelve panel display was cre­orous and detailed. The case­lifetime friendship. made me appreciate all that I the lives of these children. ated by children who are wait­work staff assesses various fac­had as a child". ing to be matched with volun­tors from volunteer, parent, Big Brothers! Big Sisters vol­Kasten, Scheidler, and 
The first Big Brother agency teers. and child interviews to per­unteers come from all types of Collins all agree that a greatbegan in Cincinnati in 1903. It Currently, 175 children are sonality, interests, values, trav­backgrounds, and represent deal of the program's success was founded by a group of matched with a Big Brother or el distance, life experiences many different groups of peo­is due to the fact that both vol­businessmen who befriended Big Sister, but 109 children are and personal histories." ple. They are professionals . unteer and child develop new fatherless boys in the city. still waiting to be matched. Scheidler said. homemakers, college students, understandings and perspec­Other cities soon followed and Children must be between the Pre-match interviews are and retirees. All possess the tives concerning the extremes in 194 7, thirteen agencies from ages of six and thirteen at the conducted with the volunteer, desire to share time, life expe­of childhood relationships and across the country united to time of referral, and can parent and child in the child's riences, and caring. the importance of positive form Big Brothers of America. participate in the program home. All three people must Big Brothers and Big Sisters adult guidance. 
In 1902 a group of women until they reach the age of consent to the proposed match. receive valuable gifts such as in New York began caring for eighteen or when they gradu­After this initial introductory friendship and increased self In the immediate future, Biggirls who came before the New ate from high school. meeting, each weekly outings worth in return for their ser­Brothers/ Big Sisters is trying • York Children's Court. This are planned by volunteer and vices. to take all the unmatched chil­became known as the Big Volunteers must be eighteen child. The caseworker keeps Junior Shannon Kasten has dren to the Notre Dame-NavySisters of America. years of age or older. They close contact with volunteer, been an active Big Sister for game on October 29th. 
must live or work in St. Joseph parent, and child to provide two years. She describes the However, they still need tickets 
The two groups merged in County and must cooperate guidance, support, and goal­programs as "an experience to accommodate the 109 1977 to form Big Brothers/ Big with a screening process that setting assistance. that makes volunteers feel unmatched children. Students Sisters of America. includes securing at least three really good about helping other who do not plan to attend the 
In 1968 Big Brothers started positive references, consenting Volunteers commit to at least people. I have learned to value game can have the satisfaction 
as an interest group on the to a police background check, one year of service, but the my role as teacher and friend". of helping a child by donating
Notre Dame campus. One year an in-depth personal office average length of most match-Kasten and her little sister. their student ticket. 


j 
~ 
-------------------------~--------~-~­
page 8 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 19, 1994 
•NBA • COllEGE BASKETBALl. 
"Big Dog" money made public Motivation key in recovery 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
The Milwaukee Bucks took the unusu­al step Tuesday of going public with their contract offer -$60 million guar­anteed over nine years -to top draft pick Glenn Robinson. 
They went even further by confirming exactly what Robinson's asking for: $100 million over 13 years. That's four years and $40 million more than the Bucks want to pay, coach and general manager Mike Dunleavy said in a news conference billed as a chance to set the record straight for fans. 
"I hope at some point sanity will come into play," Dunleavy said. 
Robinson, the nation's leading scorer with Purdue last season, has missed the first two weeks of training camp. 
Dunleavy made the club's latest offer to Robinson last week. Robinson and his agent, Charles Tucker, countered with a proposal for "an inflexible 13 years" and $100 million, Bucks vice president John Steinmiller said. 
"We feel it is unreasonable,'.' said Steinmiller, who added the Bucks weren't trying to pressure Robinson by disclosing contract details. 

Tucker told the Milwaukee Sentinel he wasn't bothered by the Bucks holding their own briefing. 
"They have the right to do what they want to do," he said. As for why no agreement has been reached, he said, "Apparently everything is not the way that Glenn thinks it should be." 
Tucker has never confirmed that Robinson wants $100 million, but has said he's seeking a lifetime deal. 
Steinmiller called the club's offer the highest ever made to an NBA rookie. While the proposal isn't as lucrative as second-year guard Anfernee Hardaway's nine-year, $70 million con­tract with Orlando or as long-term as veteran forward Larry Johnson's 12­year pact with Charlotte, Steinmiller said the Bucks are guaranteeing a record amount of years and dollars. 
"It is aggressive. We feel it reflects how we feel about Glenn Robinson and his importance to this organization," Steinmiller said. 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
George Raveling, a coach who posts motivational signs in the locker room, has found a new use for them -in his hospital room. 
The Southern Cal basketball coach has been hospitalized since breaking nine ribs and fracturing his pelvis and collarbone in a car accident near the campus Sept. 25. 
"I didn't realize what a vital role the mind plays in this and how self-esteem is important," Raveling said in a confer­ence call Tuesday from USC University Hospital. "Just a couple of days ago I was thinking about how I always put up motivational signs for the players before the games and I thought, 'Heck, you've got to get yourself fired up.' 
"So I had about 15 legal-size sheets of paper and some felt markers sent over from the basketball office on campus. I made myself a bunch of motivational signs and taped them to the wall here in my room to keep myself motivated and keep myself mindful that I have to be strong and participate in my recovery. 
"One says, 'There can be no gains without some pains.' Another says, 'All it takes is a tough mental attitude.'" 
Raveling has been up using a walker, but he still has a collapsed lung. The doctors plan to observe him for at least 10 more days and see if the lung expands. If so, he may be allowed to go home. If not, he may have to undergo surgery and be hospitalized another 10 days or so. 
'Til probably be in the hospital anoth­er 10 days and after that, we're looking at roughly eight to 10 weeks of rehabilitation," he said. "Those weeks of rehabilitation don't mean that I couldn't come back and coach, but I think it will take that long before I was back to a level of personal satisfaction." 
Raveling spent 10 days in intensive care. 
"This has been the most difficult phys­ical and mental challenge that I've ever been confronted with in my life," he said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  Need 2 Navy GA's x2567, Kate  Have you ever responded to those  
1­ NOTICES  Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808  TICKETS  Need GA's to Air Force and Navy! Please call 4-1330.  Need AF GA  "Need a Ride" signs? Have you ever hitched a ride home or given a  
Will pay top $$$  ride to someone who lives in your  
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES  • I desperately NEED 1 Navy GA •  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  x1751  home state?  If you answered yes  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  • for my newlywed best friend.  272-6551  I NEED 3 AF GAs! Sam X4872  to this and it' you have any funny,  
NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/10-6  • PLEASE CALL 4-4320  Selling one Navy GA: will take best  crazy, scary, etc. stories about the  
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  I need 2 Navy Stud  offer by wed. Norm x3914  adventure/trip home, call me. I'm  
ILOST & FOUND I  BABYSITTER-2 children 1-2 half days per wk. Occasional evenings. $5.00 hr. 272-5029  HOME GAMES. 272-7233. I need one Air Force GA or student  Call Clare X2556 Need 6 Navy Ga's  NEED 1 AF & 1 NAVY GA . CALL JOSE 1661.  writing a feature about this for the Accent page and I need you stories. Patti 284-4310.  
ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please  Bill271-9471  
LOST STUDENT 1.0. NEAR GATE  call X3822. Thanks!  I NEED 1 NAVY GA BADLY  
15 ON SAT. 1011. REWARD. CALL_  HELP!Need your non-rat infested  TO SELL: 1 navy stud. ticket  MIKE X42210  Got a pal at IOWA STATE?  
287-4546. THANK YOU.  basement for my band to practice.  I NEED NAVY GA'S  call287-1449  I need a ROUND TRIP rider only.  
Will pay I play in return. Julie 273  MARKX1640  For sale stu tix Navy & Air Force  Leaving NO 10121, returning  
••••• $50 REWARD •••••  0182.  Desperately Need Navy GA's  30$ ea 272-5674  10124. Karen x2458  
For the RETURN of or information  I NEED FSU TIX  X1421  
leading to the RETURN of two  KEVIN @ X3457  NEED A RIDE BACK FROM  
CO's: Peart Jam and Nirvana "All  Wanted!!! Individuals and Student  I need GA's for AF and Navy.  I need NAVY GA's and Students  PITTSBURG FRI. 28th • PLEASE  
Acoustically". Please call272­ Organizations to Promote SPRING  I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call  Please Call634-4574.  call Mike @ 4x1 899 or 4x1890  CALL ERIK X3596  
4021.  BREAK '95. Earn substantial  Kristine at 4-3806. Thank you  WILL HELP WI$$$  
MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL  VERY MUCH!  I need 2 AF GA's  
Found:  Bike-lock key  INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­ will pay $50 ea.  I need 4 GAs for Navy.  Call Tim at  COME SEE SUNSHINE WINE AT  
October 12  9:00pm  800-327-6013  NEED 1 STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR AIR  Jon@x1151  4-3580  BRIDGET'S TONIGHT!  
between Farley and NOH  FORCE.  CALL LOU @ 233-4008.  
call Eric x1 087  Need Navy GA's  Need Navy GA's and students. Call  -FUNK MAN FUNK­ 
We have two extra seats in a  $$$$$Help! I need Air Force GAs.  Andy 289-3736  x2703  SUNSHINE WINE  
FOUND!!! Reading glasses accom­ metalic-peat delux Griswald  Please call Gina at 277-0740.$$$$$  featuring "STIX" MARONEY  
panied with a turquoise(sp?)  coup enroute to Colorado Springs  iOHNOI  HELP!! I need one student ticket  WEDNESDAY, BRIDGET'S  
colored glass case. Found just out­ for Fall-Break. Leaving Thurs.  Parents forget to get NAVY GAs!  for my little sister for Navy!! Call  -DONNY STORINO,wheels, LIZ  
side the ROTC building. Please  10.30p and returning for weekend  I NEED NAVY GAs. CALL WENDY  Help us! Call for Chris or Joe at 4­ John X2213  BISHKO, and MORE  
Call 'Dog at x1670  of Navy. Call x-3191; Ed or Dan.  @ X4708  3670.  
or  the D.O.C. x1352  I have friends coming to see a the  Need 2 Air Force GA's Jennifer  THANK YOU ST. JUDE  
Desperately need 1 NAVY TICKET  AIR FORCE game. Can you help  X2448  from an '88 alum who needed your  
LOST: A black camera last seen at the Linebacker. Please call Laura  FOR RENT  for mylittle brother. Becky x2526.  Please call  by selling me two STUDENT TIX? Chris 4-3670  I HAVE NAVY STUDS  help  
at X271 B-REWARD!!!  CALL KEVIN @271-7428  VISIT ORLANDO! Notre DameiFSU  
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  Need 1 Navy (GA or SOT) tic for my  game weekend. ECONO LODGE  
LOST: small blue topaz/diamond  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  little sis.  CALL BRIAN X3526  Need 2 AIR FORCE GAs  2 FSU-NDTIX  CENTRAL-1 mile from stadium. $48  
ring somewhere between C1 lot  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  Please call Curtis -282-2197  25 yard line, upper deck, Third row,  +tax (Advance Res. Rate) $3 R.T.  
and library. Call Jennifer at 273­ NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  NEEDED:  GA's for NAVY.  seats 19&20. Call Greg, 904-673­ Shuttle. Large, clean rooms, pool,  
4516 Cash reward if found  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ Call Steve at 4-1909.  $$NEEDED$$  8812 Best offer.  HBO, ESPN, Fast Eddie's Bar &  
773-2034  AIR FORCE GA'S  Grill 800-293-7234.  
LOST-grey tent was last seen out­ Need 2 Navy GAs Call Tony at  CALL GARY  I'm selling my Navy stud. Dan 273­ 
side PE. call x4544 .------------, Rm Available-$2251mo, 5-minWANTED I drive 232-7175 or 631-4809  634-4532. I am selling 4 Navy GA'slll  Call  2n-9279 2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE.  CALL  0855 Need 2 Navy GAs 4 rents from CA!  WHOEVER STOLE OUR SHRUNKEN HEAD Fri night from  
*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*  I  FOR SALE  Heather at 4-1337  ROSI AT 634-4476. NEED 1 or 2 NAVY GA-willing to  NO gave us the shaft! Call Stone 289-9857  41 8 Farley-your dog is dead and yor sister's next. GIVE IT BACK!  
..  FASCINATING CONVERSATION! Looking for a ride from NO to  -One way plane ticket: South Bend­ FSU FSU FSU 2GA's  buy or trade for air force GA. call ann x4544  For sale grad stu tickets for Navy & Air Force 25$ each 237-0072  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% HEY CAVANAUGH WOMEN!  
Milwaukee Thursday night October  Chicago-D.C. Leaving Fri.1 0121  Best Offer by 8 PM Wed  Take two fun guys (not like fungi)  
27 Please Call Pierre x1184  $60 call Stacey x2939  x1955  Need: GA's and Student Tix For Air Force. Will pay Big Bucks!  PERSONAL  to your dance. No gilt needed! Guaranteed time of your semester!  
*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$'$*$.$*$*$.$*$*  Mac Plus, Harddrive, and Image  I have two Navy GA's. Need 'em?  Call Liz 273-2179. Thanks!  No purchase necessary! See the  
Writter II for sale. $400.  Call Jen x4281  THE COPY SHOP  girls in 124 'Naugh for details.  
Need a ride back from MN after  Call x3342.  in LaFortune Student Center now  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%  
Oct break. Will help wl driving & $.  Loyal NO alum needs 2 Navy GAs  FOR SALE: 2 NAVY GA'S  accepts VISA, MC, and MAC cards  
~lease call! Meagen X2764  4 Sale GAs 4 all Home Games  x1359  for your copying needs.  204 has been marooned.  
271-2837  NEED: 3 FSU TICKETS  
I need a ride to Boston plse call at  $$$$$$  PLEASE HELP ME-KELLEY  Female Grad Students  E. Barry  
271-1586  One way tkt to NYC, Cheap Travel  Navy GA's NEEDED for  X3427!11!1!  Need 1 more roommate- 
anytime before dec. Call2n-5316.  Family Call Marc 233-4008  Oak Hill $3001mo.  273-6153  "Is this Neil Diamond?"  
1 Membership ..Privileges or Just  $$$$$$$$  
Lou It XL shirt. $Tom X2042  '94 Deluxe Plymouth Voyager,  Confidential Support Meeting for  
leather interior, loaded, 1 0,000  I need 4 Navy GA's  WANTED:  OneGA or  Lesbian and Bisexual students at  !!!1!!1!!!!!!!11!11!1!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!111  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ miles, assume loan, $21 ,BOO. Call  Call Andy @2071  Student Ticket  SMC will be held Wed. night at 9pm  !!!ONLY THREE MORE DAYS!!!  
Earn up to $2,000+1month working  233-8855  for  call 289-4063 or the Q-line 287­ !!!!!!11!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ Need many Navy tix Stud or GA's  NAVY  6665 for more info.  
panies. World travel (Hawaii,  This is for a great cause, my family  Call Norm @ 634-1023  I NEED A NEW CLUTCH!!!!  
Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.)  For Sale  will be here.  I love my family & I'll  Looking for RIDERS to share $for  
Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ T-Shirts  love you too if you sell me your tix.  drive to Durham, NC area for Oct  WHAT? Is this a one-way street?  
ment available. No experience nec­ $4  Please, with sugar on top, call  Break. Will stop along way. Call  
 
essary. For more information call 1­ Call277-7131  Charlie at x3830  Marc 233-4008  Doesn't anyone go out on Monday  
206-634-0468 ext. C55841  NEED AF  GA'S OR  STUD  TIX  nights?  
Plane ticket  Nov4  $50  X3098  Need a ride to D.C. or anywhere  
TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK  Chi-Hous-San Fran  Eric 1 087  It's my dad's 50th Birthday and I  close for fall break.  Call John at  Hope you had fun Amy. Happy  
'95! LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA,  want to make his day.  You can  4289 if you can help.  21st!  
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE.  I have 4 roundtrip plane tix to  help me!! Sell me  
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE$$$!  Orlando that leave the Thurs.  FOUR AIR FORCE GAS  ...***""**For Sale*.......  I NEED A RIDE HOME!!  Happy Birthday to our  
ORGANIZE GROUP, TRAVEL  before FSU. Each ticket is $200 or  Please????!!  NAVY I AIR FORCE STUDS  Will pay gas and tolls to  Favorite Female Freek!  
FREE! SUN SPLASH TOURS1­ best offer. Call Trout at 271-1390.  Thanks. Michelle 284-5512  ...Call Judy X1536*•••••  HAWAII (The big island)  If you see SHANNON DUNN today,  
B00-426-771 0  -KEONI­ wish her a Happy 21st!!  

Wednesday, October 19, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 9 

Holtz 
continued from page 12 
backer. But Holtz assured that no seniors will be replaced by underclassmen solely because of age. 
"I would never put a senior down if they are the superior player at their position," Holtz said. 
The Irish coach also tried to dispel rumors that senior wide receiver Michael Miller is no longer with the football team. 
"Michael didn't practice last 
week because of an injury to 
his back and was not with the 
team Monday because he had 
class," Holtz said. "According to 
the agreement we have he will 
be back with the football team." 
Quarterback Ron Powlus will 
practice this week and appears 
to have no ill-effects from the 
mild concussion he suffered 
against the Cougars. 
Despite Merrill Hoge's retire­
ment from the Chicago Bears 
from a series of concussions, 
Holtz said he is not concerned 
for the long term health of his 
quarterback. 
SOUTH BEND RECORD&CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 23•d 10:00 AM-5:00 PM ADMISSION $3.00 
AT: THE HOLIDAY INN 
(UNIVERSITY) 
SlSDIXIEWAYN. 
US 31 -33 NORTII 
FREE Admission with this ad!! 
BUY. SELL. TRADE COLLECfffiLES FROM THE 
LP's. CD's 45's o 12 inclt singlu o imports
o 
posters 0 magazine.s 0 boola 0 c!JIIcert plwtas 0 video.s t-shirts 0 casseue.s 0 pins 0 patches and muds more!!! 
at (616) 375-1776 

"In football you are never se­cure, never comfortable, but I only go by what the doctors tell me." 
Notre Dame's offensive unit when it gets inside the 20, may also be revamped during the off week. Holtz is considering using freshman Leon Blunt at quarterback in similar fashion to Paul Failla's role last season. 
"I've talked to Leon about that, and it is certainly some­thing we will look at during the next week," Holtz said. 
Motivational speaker Greg McFarlane spoke to the team Monday and according to Holtz was well received by the play­ers. 
McFarlane, who's been blind since age two, spoke to the team for about an hour about overcoming setbacks and not taking things in life for granted. 
"Greg is a friend of mine and came to visit me because he was in the area and I though it would be a good idea for him to speak to the players," Holtz said. "It is not something I often do, but I thought it would be a good experience for the play­ers, and I think it was." 
IH 

continued from page 12 
berth. 

In the final minutes of the second half with B.P. leading 7­6, they put together a drive that resulted in a Katie Meehan touchdown and an almost sure victory. 
The Badin Attitude showed they were not ready to give up their chances for the playoffs, though. A long pass, caught by Jill Satanek, put the Attitude on B.P.'s five yard line. With ten seconds left on the clock, Badin's Kim Gold caught a pass that put Badin in the driver's seat to the playoffs. 
It was not to be, though. With no time remaining on the clock,· Badin was unsuccessful in con­verting the two-point and thus. ended the game and the season for the Attitude, by one point. 
Badin quarterback Marie Basbagill said, 'I think we made little mistakes throughout the game that added up. We had the ability and the motivation to win, but it just didn't hap­pen." 
B.P.'s captain Melissa McPike said, "We had a lot of determi­nation. At halftime, I gave an arousing speech and told my team that I didn't want this to be my last game. We really wanted this, so we stepped up and made a team effort, and I think that is what made it work." 

Ifyou're into computer sciences, data processing, accounting, auditing, math or law ... 

get in touch with State Farm. 
Our career opportunities are many and varied for qualified grads. If you're selected, you'll enjoy the advantages of working with a respected leader in the insurance industry. Expert training. State­of-the-art equipment. Excellent pay and benefits. Cost-of-living adjustments. Plenty of room to grow. And you'll enjoy Bloomington, Illinois, too. It's a thriving community with .the social, cultural and recreational activities afforded by two universities. 
Contact your Placement Director, or write Daryl Watson, Assistant Director Home Office Personnel Relations, One State Farm Plaza, Bloomington, Illinois 61710. 
State Farm Insurance Companies · Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois · An Equal Opponunity Employer 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 19, 1994 

By GARRETT KERN 
Sports Writer 
This past Friday, the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams competed against the Cougars of BYU. This was the first competition for both teams this season and the Cougars put up a fight, but only the women prevailed. 
The women, lead by a strong contingent of underclassmen, defeated BYU by the slim score of 160-139. 
Freshman Lauren Relay fin­ished first in all three of her individual events and swam on the third place 400-Yd. Medley Relay. 
Sophomore Erin Brooks placed first for the Irish in her two specialty events, the 100 and 200-Yd. backstrokes, as well as leading-off the first place Medley Relay. 

The meet turned in Notre Dame's favor when Relay, Ekizabeth Rice, and Joy Michnowicz place first, second, and fourth, consecutively, in the 400 Yd. Individual Medley. Other first place finishers for the Irish were Jesslyn Peterson (100 Yd. breaststroke) and Michnowicz (200Yd. breast­stroke). 
Unfortunatley, the men's team did not fair as well against the Cougars as the women. The Irish fell by a score of 191-108. 
The Irish were lead by junior 
• MEN'S iNTERHAU 

Regular season ends tonight 
In a battle between two play­off teams, Off-Campus and Planner will close the lnterhall season tonight on Cartier Field 
(2-1) Off-Campus rides into the showdown well rested after But captain Dave Deltore thinks Planner will be 
"It's not going to be an easy 
We definitely feel that 
But we definitely 
on the turnovers and penalties. We have to work on offensive tim­ing and eliminate penalties." 
Off-Campus needs to get its So far this season, they've struggled. On the ground, they'll give 
Mike Thompsen, a fleet back who could give Lawrence Taylor 
Ry Beville who placed first in both the 100 and 200 Yd. but­terflys and was a member on the first place 400 Yd. Freestyle Relay. 
The bright spot for the Irish came in the 200 Yd. butterfly were Irish swimmers Beville, Alan Shaw, and Matt Blanchong placed first, second, and third, consecutivley. BYU came into Notre Dame with strong depth in the distance events, breastrokes, and diving. 
Senior David Nathe had the only other individual first place for the Irish in the 100 Yd. freestyle. Nathe and Beville teamed up with Senior captain Andy Kiley and junior Dave Doherty for a first place in the 400Yd., Freestyle Relay. 

nightmares. 
The Off-Campus defense has only given up six points all year. The crew is led by Joe Goodwin on the defensive line, and George Reider at line­backer. Reider was the leader of last year's Morrissey champi­onship defense. 
Planner Captain Too Keller admits Off-Campus is a tough opponent. "They're very tal­ented. They have the most amount of talent on campus. It'll be a real challenge to match up with them." 
When quarterback Scott Lupo goes to the air, he'll look for his favorite target, big tight end Jim McKale. 
Lupo is also a great scram­bler, who complements running backs Steve Hrovat and Matt Beaujon well. 
Grace vs. Dillon 
Pride is at stake in tonight's Grace-Dillon matchup. Dillon is trying to avoid a winless sea­son. After not winning an Interhall game for three years, Grace is hoping to finish .500. 
Look for Grace to come out and mix the ball up early. They'll be testing Dillon's Big Red defense for weak spots, and trying to figure out whether to attack on the ground, or through the air. 
Grace's aerial attack will rely on quarterback Brian Perez. Last Sunday against Keenan, Perez averaged 8 yards per passing attempt, an impressive number even by NFL stan­dards. 
Defensively, Dillon needs a big game from right end Josh Noem, a man Big Red captain Zach Budzichowski said is a football player. 
Grace needs solid fundamen­tal play. In their 14-7 loss to Keenan on Sunday, they were penalized five times. Wednesday's game will end the regular season, so Grace will be looking to go out on a high note. 
"We'd like to finish the sea­son as well as we can. It's just one more chance to prove we can do somethings right. u 
Dillon's offense will be unpre­dictable. Throughout the sea­son, the Big Red has relied on a running game. Tailback Pete Meyer will get most of the car­ries. 
However, Dillon was more successful passing the ball against Stanford last Sunday, and is considering opening up the offense, and letting quar­terback Stefan Molina throw the ball more. 

Where do you stand? 
•tts• fl'l(l$• ca;J=­
Take a free diagnostic test in Notre Dame's Computer Clusters* and get computer-analyzed results on the spot. Discover your test-taking strengths and weaknesses before facing the real test. It's one more way Kaplan, the leader in test prep, helps you get a higher score. 
1·800-KAP·TEST 
KAPLAN
The answer to the test question 
The ~LUB The ~LUB 
to eat. 
to beat. 


HOCI<EY ENTHUSIASTS! 
The Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for volunteers to help with our Youth Hockey League again this season. We are having an informational meeting tonight at the Ice Box from 7:00-9:00. We are looking for some students who have some skating ability, are reliable, dependable and enjoy being around energetic children. For further information, please call the hockey hotline@ 277-7519 and leave a message. 
Wednesday, October 19, 1994 The Observer· TODAY page 12 
GARY LARSON
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE 



Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
ill. \.liT! DO 'iOU 11\\NK 5\.IE REMEM\£RS \.lOW \.AS\ TIME WE THRE~T£NED it> fWS\-\ \-IER SC\Et{CE l'{O~S [X)'fl.N 11-\t. TOilET ? 

DILBERT 
I'VE BEE.N ASK.ED TO REDUCE HEADCOUNT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Horoscope 6 Pachacuti was one 10 Safety specifications 14 Personal care workers 15 Dickensian orphan 16 Stormy greeting? 17 Fat City 
dwelling? 20 Loudness unit 21 Jots 22 Actor Davis 23Gatsby 
portrayer, with 36-Across 25 Just those of Juan things? 
27 Outwit, in Fat City? 33Wasa 
busybody 34Gibbons 35Common 
Market money 36 See 23-Across 37Warp 39 Parts of 
matches 40 Unstop, poetically 41 Germany's­
Mountains 42 Munchkins 43 Fat City office 
attire? 47 Bearing 48 Inspector 49 Sphere, e.g. 52 Paraphernalia 54 Final words 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
...---...L_-~ 
TO BE FAIR ABOUT IT I. CRE.ATE.D A SCIENTIFIC 
ALGOf\ITHM TO DECIDE. WHO GOE.S. 
58 Be insincere, in 
Fat City? 61 Crow's-nest cry &2 "Little Sheba" 
playwright 63 Yellow-fever mosquito 64 "Ladders" in 
· hose 65 Turned gray 66 Take by force 
DOWN 
11983 Tony musical 2 "Farmer in the Dell" syllables 3Arabian Peninsula port 4 Prepared leftovers 5 General on 
Chinese menus 6 Bonkers 7 Requisite &Zoom-lens 
shots 9 Actor-director Kjellin 


10 Ballroom glide 
11 Boating couple 
BILL WATTERSON 
5\.1£. REM£.1'<\BtRS, 1>-11. RIGHT. 
Sl-It ~1GB" AW~'i 'ttiTI-\i\-115. WEll. G.\.L 1\\£. RESt:.\JE ~N) . 
I THOUGI-\T YOU WERE FI.RING THE PEOPLE WITI-\ TI-\E 1-\IGI-\EST SALARIES 
Of..AY l MAYBE. "ALGORITI4r'\" IS AN OVERSTATE­
MENT. \ 



46 Rochester's 55 Remain 
beloved 56 Finishes the 49 Practice aIa 
cakeMarciano 57 Examine50 Kauaj neighbor 

59-mater

51 Where the Rhone meets 
(brain the Sa6ne membrane) 53 Sidle 60 Like sushi 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
31 Eightsome 32Ado 33 Novelist's 

concern 37 Race's end 38 Using extortion 39 Barely mention 41 Johanna Spyri 
classic 42 Canton finish 44 Dickinson and 
Bronte 45 Halted 
"Benson" 


24 Old Ford ~~~~.;....! 26 Printer's mark 27 Plot mathematically 28 Place to get down from 29 Fabric akin to ~~+;...~ felt ..;.;...a.;::..L;.....I..=..J 30 Chaucer pilgrim 
t-=-f*.:::+:;+;:.BII!I ~-RH~ -~~~ 13 Besides ~~4=-4 18 Bountiful's state -=:::-+;:;.+::::+=-! 19 Despoils 
TAKE A STUDY BREAK! 
Graduates and Undergraduates ·UNITED In honor of National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week, all graduate and undergraduate students are invited to 
DANCE 

Thursday, October 20, 1994 9 p.m. until Midnight LaFortune Ballroom Snacks, Beverages (Mocktails-virgin Margarita's and Daiquiri's), D.J. 
Sponsored by: Graduate Student Union, Undergraduate Student Government, Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, Flip Side and S.A.D.D. 

-· 


--------------------------------~--~~~,-.-.. 
I,' 

.. 
SPORTS 
page 12 Wednesday, October 19, 1994 
• NO SOCCER • 

Irish blast DePaul 3-0 for first road victory 
By JARED PATZKE fense, amassing eight shots in Coach Mike Berticelli only low defensemen Brian Sporrs Writer the first half. had positive things to say Engesser, Chris Dean, Dane Notre Dame had an opportu­about his teams performance. Whitley, and goalkeeper Bert 
It took eight hours, four min­nity to take a quick two goal "This was a good win for us. Bader. The five flustered the utes and thirty-one seconds lead as Tim Oates was award­We came out and relaxed Blue Demon offense, only for the Notre Dame men's soc­ed a penalty kick with six min­more and just had fun out allowing four shots in the cer team to score their first utes left to play in the first there playing. Our midfield game. Bader was only called goal of the season away from half; however, Oates' shot was played a great game. Keith upon once to make a save. Alumni Field . blocked by Rosenberger. Carlson particularly had an Since the Irish have moved 
Midfielder Jason Fox ended Keith Carlson added the outstanding game." Adkisson to stopper and the Irish's five game traveling Irish's last two goals of the The Irish defense main­placed Whitley at sweepernightmare as he redirected a game in the second half. tained their consistent bril­they have gone 2-0 and Tim Oates shot past DePaul The first came in the 61st liance as they blanked the outscored their opponents 6-1. goalkeeper Brett Rosenberger minute of play as he took a Blue Demons. This marks The switch from the 3-5-2 to in the 35th minute of the cross from Antonio Capasso their seventh shutout of the the 4-4-2 alignment could be game. The goal was the first and put it past Rosenberger. season. the missing niche which the of three by the Irish on the His second goal came in the "We moved Kevin Adkisson Irish have been desperatelyday, as they went on to defeat 70th minute of play as he un­to stopper and he dominated looking for all season. the Blue Demons 3-0. leashed a bullet from 35 yards that area of the field and shut The win verses DePaul pro­
The Irish offensive unit, out. The shot surprised down DePaul offensively," pels Notre Dame above the which has come to life in the Rosenberger and found the commented Berticelli. .500 mark for the season, giv­past two games, put continual back of the net. Adkisson was joined by fel-ing them a 8-7-1 record. 
pressure on the DePaul de-


• NO fOOTBAll 


By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sporrs Editor 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz enters the bye week with some definite plans he hopes will better his football team before the Irish (4-3) host Navy October 29. 
Holtz vows the Irish, losers of two-straight. will return to fundamentals and also give some younger players a chance to crack the lineup. 
"There will be a spring type atmosphere," Holtz said. "It will be very similar in tempo and intensity." 

Notre Dame's coach also listed a number of young players that will be given a chance to earn playing time. 
Ivory Covington and Allen Rossum will be tried in the defensive secondary, along with fellow freshman Jarvis Edison. Starting cornerbacks Bobby Taylor and Shawn Wooden ani ailing and it is uncertain how much they will practice. 
John McLaughlin and Corey Bennett will be looked at rush end and Bill Mitoulas at line-
see HOLTZ I page 9 
• WOMEN'S INTERHAlL 

Pangborn controls Howard 21-7 
By SHANNON O'DONNELL connection, whether it was for ty good. I had bad plays mixed Sports Writer a first down or a touchdown. in with good ones, so I guess Byrd's magic started immedi­you could say that evened out 
One person cannot win a foot­ately. as she ran the ball into my performance," she said. 

ball game for the whole team, 

the endzone within the first two 
however, one person can con­

minutes of the game. Breen-Phillips 13, trol much of the outcome. In an 
Later in the first half, Byrd Badin 12 offensive battle between No. 1 
connected with Tschanz for her 
Pangborn and No. 11 Howard, 

first touchdown of the game, The destinies of two seasons P.B.'s Kelly Brady proved she 
putting Lyons up 13-7 at the were decided on one play with had the talent to control. 
half. no time left on the clock. 
She said, "If it wasn't for my Cavanaugh showed some im­Emotions ran high as No. 8 team, I wouldn't be that good." 

pressive offensive line skill, as Badin watched their playoffHer contributions in the game 
their quarterback rarely en­hopes disappear while No. 10 included three impressive 
countered any kind of pressure Breen-Phillips secured a playofftouchdowns and numerous 
from Lyons' defense. runs, catches and moves that "Overall, I think I played pret-see IH I page 9 left Howard speechless. 
Her first touchdown came on a pass to the right which she bobbled three times before gaining control and running it in for the score, just as time expired in the first half. 
On the next play of the game, the second half kick-off, quar­terback M.T. Kraft caught the ball, ran it five yards and later­ailed it to Brady, who pro­ceeded to take it to the outside and into the endzone. After the successful extra-point, Pangborn knew they were in complete control as they were in the lead 14-7. 
"We are the better team by far," Brady said. "Our offense really gelled tonight." 
Lyons 20, Cavanaugh 7 
Equal strength in offense and defense earned Lyons the No. 2 position in the power polls. However, last night against Cavanaugh, it was the combi­nation of quarterback Julie Byrd and tailback Kathy Tschanz that led Lyons to their 20-7 victory over Cavanaugh. 

Kim Gold and Badin Hall lose a heart breaker as a two point conver­
It seems as though the two 

sion goes astray. 
knew where to be to make a 



of note...
Saint Mary's Soccer 
Zahm faces Morrissey today at 
With only one reserve because of injuries, the 
4:30 on Stepan Fields for the 
Belles were unable to withstand Trinity. 
lnterhall Soccer Championship. 
See Page 10 
Saint Mary's Soccer 




