
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Rita cleared of Fox's death 
Judge declares mistrial on lesser leaving scene of an accident charge 

By JOHN LUCAS and DAVE TYLER Managing Editor, News Editor 
After deliberating for nearly nine hours last night, a St. Joseph's County Superior Court jury acquitted Notre Dame law school graduate John Rita of the felony charge of causing the death of Mara Fox while driving drunk. 
• see REACTION, page 3 
Judge William Albright de­clared a mistrial on a second, lesser felony charge of leaving the scene of an accident, after the jury said it was deadlocked and could come not to a ver­dict. 
Rita, 25, of Springfield, Virginia, had been standing trial in connection with the Nov. 13, 1993 death of 18-year old Notre Dame freshman Mara Fox. 
Fox and a group of friends had been walking back towards campus from a Grape Road restaurant after a cab the group had called never arrived. 
Fox, who was walking on the shoulder closest to Douglas Road, was struck and killed. 
During closing arguments, defense attorney Charles Asher charged that an Intoxilizer breath test given to Rita just hours after the accident was flawed. Asher said the test, which was administered by state trooper Kevin Kubsch, produced an inaccurate as­sessment of Rita's blood alco­hol content. 
Although the test showed that Rita had a BAC of .14, four hundredths over Indiana's legal limit, the machine malfunc­tioned and printed a results card marred by overstrikes and printing errors. 
"No one can say that this ma­chine did not make mistakes in the testing process," Asher said, in attempting to discount the test results. "Why didn't the trooper run another test?" 
St. Joseph's County Prosecutor Michael Barnes maintained that if jurors "used their common sense" they would see that the test was ac­curate in its BAC display, if not 
see RITA I page 3 


Deloitte & Touche Chair announced 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Assistant News Editor 
David Ricchiute, professor of accountancy, has just been ap­pointed to the newly created Deloitte & Touche Chair in Accountancy, University Provost Timothy O'Meara an­nounced. 
Ricchiute, twice named the outstand­ing teacher in the College of Business 
Administration, was named to the position because of his ex­pertise in the field of account­ing, according to O'Meara. 
"The quality of his teaching, research and his contributions to his profession of accountan­cy made him an excellent choice," O'Meara said. 
Ricchiute is looking forward to beginning in his new posi­tion. 
"It is an opportunity for me to engage further in my own re­search," he said. 
His research interests include the study of professional judg­ment and decision making, and the pricing practices of large public accounting firms. 
His textbook, "Auditing," is widely used at colleges and universities across the United States. It is also used in England and Australia. 

Deloitte & Touche LLP, the chairs sponsor. praised the selection of O'Meara to the chair. 
"Dave Ricchiute is an out­standing individual who is widely respected by his stu­dents as well as his peers," Daniel Kelly, vice-chairman of the accounting firm and a 1957 graduate of Notre Dame, said. "We couldn't be more pleased with his appointment." 
Deloitte & Touche LLP helped create the chair by contributing to an already existing Department of Accountancy endowment that now totals $800,000. 
"All of us at Deloitte & Touche are elated that we have been able to establish a chair in accountancy at Notre Dame," Kelly said. "Deloitte & Touche is a strong supporter of teaching excellence as an important component of the scholarly work of faculty mem­bers." 
The Deloitte & Touche Chair is one of only a handful of chairs at Notre Dame which are named after companies. 
"Normally, businesses donate money for a chair that will be named for an individual, but this is one of the few excep­tions," O'Meara said. 
Endowed chairs benefit the 
University in a number of ways, 
O'Meara added. 
"The name on a chair high­lights the fact that distin­guished positions exist at Notre 
see CHAIR I page 6 


Republicans make gains 
Associated Press 

Last night's elections carried broad implications for Clinton's re-election prospects, and the direction of a Democratic Party 
that has yet to fully adjust to having one of its own in the White House and now faced losing its con­gressional dominance. 


In line to be Newt Gingrich the first Republican speaker in four decades is conservative Georgia firebrand Newt Gingrich. He said he wanted to work with Clinton, yet also had a responsibility to push the Republican campaign platform 
• see ELECTION, page 8 
that includes a balanced bud­get amendment and other provisions the president oppos­es. 
Incumbents were generally faring well in the Senate vot­ing, but the GOP claimed one significant scalp: Dr. Bill Frist wrested a Tennessee seat from Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser. Even worse for the White House, Republican Fred Thompson captured the seat once held by Vice President AI Gore. 
"We have a lot of responsibil­ity now and we have two years to prove ourselves," said Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming, sec­ond to Dole of I<ansas in the GOP leadership. "We have to step forward and put up a sen­sible health care bill and step up forward with a sensible wel­fare reform bill, put up the bal­anced budget amendment and a capital gains tax reduction." 
The hurdle for Republicans to capture the House was 40 seats, one for, every year since they last ran the chamber. By late evening, with half of House races still to be decided, Republicans had captured 32 Democratic seats and lost just two of their own. 
Clinton retreated to the White House to watch the painful returns. "I think the president will want to heal the wounds and close the gaps as quickly as possible," said press secretary Dee Dee Myers. 
Democrats began the day controlling the Senate 56-44 and the House 256-178. On av­erage, a first-term president's 

AP 

party loses three or four Senate seats and perhaps two dozen in the House. But this was not to be an average year. 
In settling 36 governorships, voters were cutting deep into the Democrats' dominance. Democrats had 29 statehouses to start the day, but lost nine: in New York, New Mexico, Texas, Wyoming, Kansas, Tennessee, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania and Oklahoma. 
In the biggest state of all, California Gov. Pete Wilson won a second term. Republican governors were also re-elected in Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, Iowa, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Wisconsin and New Hampshire, and the GOP kept the statehouses in South Dakota and South Carolina. Democrats held onto the gover­norships of Florida, Nevada, 
see ROUND-UP I page 8 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, November 9, 1994 
•INSIDE COLUMN 

The ugly persistence of our heritage 
We should all be appalled. 
The recent events sur--------­rounding the case of Susan Smith should have shocked us all. 
For those of you who have been living on an ice flow for the past few weeks I will provide a quick synopsis. 
Susan Smith claimed that she was carjacked and the thief got away with her two small chil­dren in the back seat. Upon pressure from a phenomenal media blitz, she provided a com­posite sketch of her aggressor, an African­American male. 
It came out that there was no carjacking, no thief. The criminal was Susan Smith, who drove her car. kids still belted in, into a lake where they subsequently died. 
What does this say about Susan Smith? What does this say about our society? 
Is this not the ultimate form of child abuse? These two young boys deserved better. But she has already acted and, try as we may, we can't bring those boys back. We are now faced with the responsibility of what to do with Susan Smith and how to make amends for what she has done. 
We cannot let something this heinous go unpunished. A knee-jerk response would be to execute her. The death penalty would seem perfect in this case. But, by taking her life, are we sinking to her level? Are we los­ing our "civilized" society for sake of revenge? 
A seemingly "more humane" way would be to imprison her for life. But what does this accomplish? In jail would she not just be a burden on society as taxpayers contribute to keep her off the streets? Why can't she give to society? 
How may a person like Susan Smith give to society? The answer is through human experimentation. That's right. We should use her body and mind for scientific study which may benefit society. We already use human cells, why not human beings? 
You may think that this is too radical, that it is not human. But tell me what Susan Smith has done that was human. Once she commits such inhuman acts, she loses humanity. By acting inhuman she is no longer entitled to the rights of humans. 
But is she guilty? We must realize that until she is convicted, she can still get out of responsibility. How? By copping the insanity plea. But how insane can someone be who can develop an elaborate scheme. fake a car­jacking and play it in the media for weeks. Sounds calculating and sane. 
And what about her elaborate scheme? She maintained for several weeks that she was carjacked. And by whom? An African­American male. Why choose an African­American as a carjacker? This one act by Susan Smith speaks poorly of our society, because we were so ready to believe her. Would we have felt similarly if she had said a white male. I don't think so, and that's sad. It's sad that our society is so ready to believe that crime is committed by African-American males only. It's sad that this racism still per­vades our society, despite how far we have supposedly come. 
For the murder of two young boys it appears Susan Smith is to blame. For the racist claim, perhaps we are all to blame. And this may be a greater tragedy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Amy Schmidt Dave Ring Sports Tom Schlidt  Tara Grieshop Kim Massman Accent  
Viewpoint Suzy Fry  Carolyn Wilkens Shannon Johnston  

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Aids-activating protein discovered; drug research follows 
PHILADELPHIA Sarver. one of the chief scientists in 
Scientists say they have discovered the AIDS division of the National a protein that may activate the AIDS Institutes of Health, said the study is virus in the body and cause it to interesting but very preliminary. 

W-kend of Oct. 28-Nov. 6, 1994develop into AIDS. Usually, studies such as Weiner's All dollar ligures In millions The discovery by University of that are conducted in the laboratory 


Gross to date, weeks In Weekend release, number olscraena grooa

Pennsylvania scientists could lead to do not hold up when tested in bodies, dd-«-:, Stargate $12.4 ~-ct:J.IIJ~ $34.5, two weeks, 2,033 screens
treatments that might enable infect­she said. "Many other questions need ------"------­.,.,., Mary Shelly"s Frankenstein $11.2ed people to put the human immun­to be asked to confirm these find­
.:·~..-.-' $11.2, one week,2,1nscreens
odeficiency virus on hold indefinitely. ings," Sarver said. "I feel it is not The War $5.2They still would carry the virus but right to give hope to patients who are :3 $52, one week, 1,155 screens 
might not contract the fatal disease desperate for any type of therapy." Pulp Action $5.1
4 
$38.1, four weeks, 1,494 screens

itself. HIV-infected people can be Dr. Alfred Saah, an associate pro­
The Specialist $3.1

healthy and live for years before the fessor in the School of Public Health 5 
$48.1, five weeks, 2,033 screens 

virus attacks the body's immune sys­at Johns Hopkins University, said of Love Affair $2.4 tem. A protein isolated from a gen(il the findings: "It's a hopeful sign and 6 $14.4, three weeks, 1,432 screens 
in HIV carriers appears to tell infect­I think it's worthy of pursuit and if it The River Wild $2.16
7 
$39.7, six weeks, 1,562 screens

ed cells when to start reproducing pans out, it will be quite an 
Little Giants $2.11

the virus, the researchers said in an advance." The study centered on one 
a $15.5, four weeks, 1,706 screens 
article published Tuesday in the of nine known HIV genes, "vpr." The 
Forrest Gump

.,g $2
Proceedings of the National Academy gene produces a protein, known by $288.9. 18 weeks, 1,343 screens of Sciences. the capitalized abbreviation "Vpr," ):JQ The Road to Wellvllle $1.5 
' .. =· · $4.9, two weeks, 806 screens
"We understand a new pathway that appears to be necessary before the virus uses," study chief David infected cells can produce new. Weiner, an assistant professor of infected viral particles that in turn Weiner's research team found in lab­pathology and medicine at Penn, said infect other cells, Weiner said. oratory tests that the stage of infect­in a telephone interview. Scientists need to know how the virus ed people's disease corresponds with 
"We now have an opportunity to multiplies before they can design the level of "Vpr" protein in their design drugs to inhibit it." Dr. Nava drugs to inhibit it, Weiner said. blood. 
Uncertainty regarding royal divorce Olympic Airways plane hijacked 
LONDON SALONICA, Greece 
Princess Diana has no new man in 
An Olympic Airways plane was hijacked on a flight her life and has agreed to remain a from Germany to Greece today, airline officials said. The part of the royal family at least until hijacker was detained after freeing 77 passengers and the end of 1995, her biographer said crew members unharmed in Salonica. The hijacker, a today. Contrary to media speculation, Greek man about 26 years old, was unarmed, said airline Diana and Prince Charles will not spokesman Dimitris Tsailas in Athens. Officials at divorce next year. author Andrew Salonica airport, speaking on condition of anonymity. Morton told the British national news said the man entered the cockpit and demanded that the agency Press Association. "There is no flight crew land the plane. He claimed a woman on the new man in Diana's life and she has a Princess 01 plane had a bomb, the airport officials said. They said lot of things she wants to do within the that the man may have been carrying out a prank to royal circle. One of her main ambitions is to groom (their draw attention to himself because he was disappointed eldest son) Prince William for his ultimate destiny" as by a love affair. The Boeing 737, which had been en king, the agency quoted Morton as saying. "Diana: Her route from Duesseldorf, issued a coded hijack alert while New Life," the second volume of Morton's biography of flying over the Yugoslav capital of Belgrade. The plane the princess, went on sale today. Excerpts had appeared was carrying 69 passengers and eight crew members, Sunday in The Sunday Times. A book released last month said George Vlassis, an Olympic Airways spokesman in about Diana, "Princess in Love," claimed she had an Frankfurt, Germany. affair with a man who became her riding instructor. Meanwhile, an authorized biography of Prince Charles, 

Piedmont flood death toll reaches 58 
"The Prince of Wales," said he did not love Diana when they were married and had a long-term affair with an army officer's wife. Morton's biography says Diana is ROME 
obsessed with astrology. The government promised over $1.9 billion in emer­gency relief Tuesday for areas devastated by flooding and
Dutch racing pigeons tested for drugs mudslides that have claimed at least 58 lives in northern Italy. Rescuers reached all but 11 villages isolated by the devastation caused by torrential rains, defense authori­
AMSTERDAM ties said. Ten-thousand people were left homeless andThe controversy over the use of steroids in sports has several dozen remained missing. Treasury police joinedcome home to roost for owners of racing pigeons in the the army of civil defense workers guarding against loot­Netherlands. A few drops of the steroid cortisone in a ers and price gouging. Two days after the worst of the
pigeon's drinking water or eye drops can improve a rains, much of the north presented a devastated land­
bird's flying ability, Ad van Heyst, spokesman for the 
scape. Upside down cars floated down mud-churnedDutch Pigeon Fanciers' Organization, said Tuesday. 
rivers. A television set was lodged in a tree, and a deadOwners of doped pigeons "always seem to have very good 
pig hung halfway out of a farm-building window.
results," he said. "They said they've found the solution to Authorities continued to find corpses, including an oldkeep pigeons in perfect health." In fact, the drug weak­
woman in Alessandria still clutching a black leather
ens the pigeons' immune system. making them more sus­purse with her valuables -a gold chain and watch andceptible to diseases, he said. Pigeon racing authorities about 3 million water-soaked lire, equivalent to $1.900,
plan to ban bird-doping and begin drug testing pigeons in news reports said.
April before the next racing season. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 9. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Lab Tech Graphics Nicky Batill Zoe Marin 
Th< ObS<rv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish<d Monday through Friday excep1 during ex.m and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

Atlanta 76 58 Dallas 69 53 New Orleans 80 65 Baltimore 70 47 Denver 54 28 New York 64 46 Boston 62 41 Los Angeles 69 52 Philadelphia 68 44 Chicago 49 36 Miami 85 73 Phoenix 75 54 Columbus 59 42 Minneapolis 47 30 Harlan 69 52 

-~--~~---~--­


Wednesday, November 9, 1994 



ND students startled by acquittal, mistrial 
By LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Editor 
Students across campus said they were surprised and disap­pointed by the jury's verdict in the trial of Notre Dame law school graduate John Rita. 
Despite the verdict, students on campus expressed disbelief in the result. 
"I really can't believe it," said Alumni sophomore Billy Gese, a friend of Fox's. "I saw his tes­timony, I talked to the girls she was with, I talked to Sister Kathleen (Beatty) from Lyons Hall. It sounded like he (Rita) got caught in a bunch of lies." 
Beatty, rector of Lyons Hall, said that the dorm "is in shock right now." Fox lived at Lyons as a freshman last year. 
Other students questioned Rita's credibility after hearing his account of the evening of the accident 
"It's really upsetting," said Pangborn junior Katie Lawler. "I could accept it if I believed he was being honest about other stuff. He didn1t own up to it." 
"I think everyone kind of ex-
MAXIMIZING ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE IN GRADUATE SCHOOL 
A Workshop Using the Insights of Sports Psychology to Help you Achieve Your best performance 
This workshop will focus on techniques for: 
*enhancing/ maintaining concentration 
* 
how to manage/juggle numerous demands on your time 

* 
handling performance anxiety in writing papers, making presentations, and taking comprehensive finals 

* 
dealing with academic setbacks 

* 
improving confidence in your study strategy 

* 
improving your ability to pace yourself in your academic studies 

* 
focus your energy more quickly 


Presentation by: 
Dr. Dominic Vachon, Ph.D.  
DATE:  Sunday, November 13, 1994  
TIME:  4:00 p.m. -5:15 p.m.  
AT:  Fischer O'Hara/Grace Community Center  

Sponsored By: 
The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer O'Hara/Grace University Village Graduate Student Union 
Refreshments will be provided! 
pected this case to be vindicat­ing," she added. "It's been over a year now. This is really dis­appointing." 
"If he knew he hit something, why didn't he go back immedi­ately?" asked Farley freshman Naomi Duran. 
Junior Alison Suarez, also of Pangborn, was equally disap­pointed with the verdict. She stated she believed that Rita was intoxicated at the time of the accident, although she was slightly understanding of Rita's position regarding the leaving the scene charge. 
"If he freaked out, it might be OK," she said of the hung jury. "Anyone would freak out when they realized they hit some­one." 
University President Father Edward Malloy declined to comment, explaining that he had just heard of the Rita ver­dict and did not yet have any detailed information. 
As the campus reeled with the emotion of the verdict, Gese left the verdict to a higher judge. 
"It's in God's hands now," he said. 

The Observer/John Lucas Prosecutor Michael Barnes speaks to reporters after the verdict was announced. BarQes has not yet announced whether he intends to retry John Rita on the charge of leaving the scene of an accident. 


Verdict disappoints Barnes 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 

St. Joseph County Prosecutor Mike Barnes is "deeply disap­pointed" by the jury's decision in the John Rita case, and will consider further legal action. 
Rita, 25, was acquitted of a charge of causing the death of Mara Fox while driving drunk, last night in St. Joseph County Superior Court in South Bend. 
Judge William Albright de­clared a mistrial on a second lesser felony charge of leaving the scene of a personal injury accident after the jury decided it could not reach a verdict on that count. 
Barnes told a crowd of re­porters last night on the court­house steps that his office has yet to make a decision to retry Rita on the leaving the scene charge. "We have not made a decision yet. There is no time­table on such a decision," he said. 
The prosecutor said he does not know what factors will affect the decision whether or not to retry. 
Barnes said he could not identify a specific area that may have affected the outcome of this case. "We thought there was certainly sufficient evi­dence to convict," said Barnes. 
"We thought the evidence went in (to the public record) well. It is obviously up to the jury to decide the case based on that evidence, and they found John Rita not guilty of one charge." 
Barnes admitted that ques­tions the defense raised about the validity of Rita's blood alco­hol test, but he believed that the prosecution's case was strong enough to overcome those concerns. 
Rita's attorney, Charles 
Rita 
continued from page 1 
its printout. 
Asher cited that the poor visi­bility of the rainy night and the possibility that Fox may have been walking on the road itself instead of the shoulder as larg­er factors in the accident. 
Barnes charged that if Rita had not been impaired by alco­hol, other factors would not have played any role in the tragedy. In earlier testimony, Rita said that he had consumed three beers and shot of liqueur, but insisted that he was not im­paired while driving. 
"The point is, John Rita has an obligation not to run her (Fox) down," Barnes said. "Because of alcohol, he did not fulfill that obligation." 
While closing statements per­taining to the first charge seemed to be fairly straightfor­ward, the issue of the second charge appeared to be more problematic for the jurors. 
After deliberating for three hours, the jury sent out a note asking for a clarification to the instructions Albright had given them. The question dealt with the definition of the immediacy of Rita's responsibility after the accident occurred. 
Rita had admitted in earlier testimony he had heard "a thud" but said he did not know that "something bad hap­pened" until he was able to see his shattered windshield under better light. 
After consulting both attor­neys, Albright decided that the Asher, had attacked the author­ities handling of the breath test through ofit the trial. Asher raised questions about the ac­curacy, validity, and timeliness of the test, which was con­ducted on a machine called an Intoxilizer. 
Although he may have lost this case, Barnes says he re­fuses to give in to bitterness. 
"''ve been a lawyer for twen­ty-three years of my life, and in that time I've seen things that I didn't want to have happen, I didn't expect to have happen or would hope to have happen," he said. "But as someone who works in this system I have to understand it." 
Asher had very little to say as he left the courthouse with his client. 
"One charge remains unde­cided in this case, and I don't want comment on the case, until its over." 
court could not alter its instructions and advised the jurors to adhere to the original instructions. 
The qiiestion seemed to indi­cate that jurors were respond­ing to an defense argument re­lating to the charge of leaving the scene. Asher had argued earlier that Rita should not be forced to assume responsibility for an accident that he (Rita) never believed to have oc­curred. 
Barnes rebutted Asher's closing statements by asserting 
. that Rita was attempting to place the majority of the blame for the accident on errors by the police and alleged negli­gence on the part of Mara Fox and her friends. 
"Everybody in this case has been at fault but John Rita himself," he said at the close of his statement. 
At 9:15 p.m., the jury re­turned to announce they had reached one verdict and had become stalemated on the other count. After the verdict was read to the court, Rita sobbed openly. He and his family quickly left the court­room and refused to comment to reporters. 
While other supporters of the prosecution appeared stunned, Barnes remained composed. 
"We thought there was cer­tainly sufficient evidence to convict," he said. "We thought the evidence went in (to the public record) well. It is obvi­ously up to the jury to decide the case based on that evidence and they found John Rita not-
see RITA I page 7 

--~--~ -~ ~----~ ~­
page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 9, 1994 

Wednesday, November 9, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• RESIDENCE HAll AssoCIATION • HAll PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
Recycling program possible Langford opens camp 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI News Writer 
Saint Mary's College Residence Hall Association (RHA) discussed last night the implementation of a campus­wide recycling program. 
Until now, the students of Saint Mary's have been trying to begin a recycling program through individual residence halls, yet a major obstacle in beginning a program has been lack of funding. 
Last night, RHA discussed the possibility of presenting a pro­posal to Saint Mary's adminis­tra,tion in hopes of acquiring more sufficient funding. 
According to RHA member Kathy Pitcavage, an active recy­cling program "is imperative to the college campus and we are looking for help as far as fi­nances go." 
Pitcavage stated that "there is a significant amount of interest among the dorms and we are very interested in starting a program because of the impor­tance of recycling. Action must be taken now." 
Individual halls are having fi­nancial problems beginning re­cycling programs because there is no convenient recycling pro­gram in South Bend. 
Any interested organization must go out of the area to find recycling contractors. 
Le Mans Hall and Holy Cross Hall reported that their SYRs were successful this past weekend. 
RHA discussed the adminis­trative decision that all stu­dents must be at dances by ten o'clock. 
According to Fleming, the dance was noticeably more crowded at ten o'clock. However, there were also re­ports of more drinking occur­ring in dorm rooms before the dance. 
Fleming also expressed the concern that students were drinking faster. 
Additionally, Diane Lanzillotta expressed her con­cern regarding transportation to and from off-campus for­mals. 

The current system of shuttle buses was discussed. 
RHA has been told that al­though the administration is "open to comments, nothing will change" this year from the current policy. 
Other RHA news: 

•Le 
Mans Hall will hold a tail­gate on the front lawn prior to the Air Force game from ten until eleven-thirty. All are wel­come. 

•McCandless 
Hall will be sell­ing tickets to their formal this Friday through Thursday. 

•Planning 
is underway to in­clude Saint Mary's women in the Notre Dame Late Night Olympics. Proceeds from this annual and popular event go towards the Saint Joseph Special Olympics Chapter. 

•There 
will be no RHA meet­ing the Tuesday before Thanksgiving. 


By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Assistant News Editor 
Sixteen acres located south of South Bend is the site of a pro­ject organized by a Notre Dame faculty member for regional disadvantaged children to spend a day away from the dangers and squalor of housing projects. 
Speaking at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting last night, Jim Langford, direc­tor of the University of Notre Dame Press, asked the council for funding and volunteers to help develop the site and work with the children. 
"Our project [wants to] pro­vide disadvantaged children with an opportunity to be care­free for a day, to explore nature without fear of molesta­tion or bullies, to play games for enjoyment... to make the day one to remember," Langford said in "The Report 
T'"Wo essential ingredients for a perfect date: 
A date and this. 


It's everywhere )IOU -want to be."' 
~,Visa U.S.A. Inc. 1994 


for disadvantaged 
Card," the newsletter for the project. 
Children between 4-10 years old from Chicago, northwestern Indiana and southwestern Michigan will be invited to the camp. The frrst group of chil­dren came to the camp two weeks ago. 
Titled "There Are Children Here" after Alex Kotlowitz's book, "There Are No Children Here," which describes life as a child in Chicago's housing pro­jects, the organization is based on the premise that the trend of increasing danger faced by children can be reversed. 
"Kids in these situations don't really have a childhood," Langford said. "They need to have a taste of peace, a day of safety." 
Langford and his wife con­ceived of the idea while raising two adopted biracial children, Trevor, 4, and Emily, 1. The camp is located on the Langfords' farm located near Lakeville, Ind., eight miles south of South Bend. 
The camp, which has forest on nine of its 16 acres, will in­clude a baseball field, nature trails, a playground and a club­house once construction is con­cluded. 
But such plans cannot be completed without donations of time and money, Langford said. 
The list of needs includes $40,000 for the clubhouse with a fireplace, lunchroom, play­room, and washrooms; $10,000 for a ballpark named in honor of the late Charlie Grimm, the last manager to lead the Chicago Cubs to the National League pennant; and $15,000 for a three-hole miniature golf course and a basketball court. 
Grimm's wife, Marion, is ac­tively involved in helping raise funds for There Are No Children Here. 
Money is also needed for a microwave, a sleigh for rides during the winter, tables, food and juice for the children dur­ing their stay, and a Polaroid camera so that children can have a picture to remember their day by. 
"Every bit of the donations will be used directly for the children," Langford said. 
Langford is also hoping that Notre Dame students will volunteer at the site. Chris Zorich, a 1991 graduate of Notre Dame and football all­American, is serving on the project's board of directors. 
Volunteers will be coordi­
nated through the Center for 
Social Concerns. 
Langford expects to operate 
the camp on the weekends dur­
ing the school year and daily 
during the summer. 
Rich Palermo, co-chairman of 
the HPC, said that the HPC will 
wait for a detailed budget pro­
posal before making a decision. 
"Langford wants people to take his plan back to their dorms," Palermo said. "More than anything, he is looking for volunteers and support." 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! 

Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $499S, now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on ND football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634-1740 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, November 9, 1994 
accounting. Visibility at uni­versities such as ours is impor­



King and Malcolm similar Chair 
tant to companies." 

ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
The widespread belief that Martin King and Malcolm X were polar opposites is a fal­lacy, according to James Cone. Cone, a professor at the Union Theological Seminary in New York, gave a lecture yesterday entitled "Will the Real Martin and Malcolm Please Stand?" 
"Martin King and Malcolm X provoke contrasting images among most Americans," Cone stated. King has been seen as a heroic leader that preached peaceful integration, while Malcolm X as "an irresponsible demagogue" that espoused "hate, separation, and vio­lence." 
"Recently," said Cone, "a strong wind of change began to blow in the African-American oommunity." According to Cone, from the mid-1950's to the mid-1980's, Martin King "occupied the dominant place in the pantheon of African-American leaders." However, African-Americans, especially those enduring the despair of the inner city, have increasingly come to favor the views of Malcolm X over those of Martin King. "He (Malcolm X) is a symbol of young black rage against white America and its racism," Cone said. 
Malcolm X endorsed black nationalism and the furthering of the African-American cause "by any means necessary," which to many implied the use of violence. According to Cone, this philosophy has made 
· Malcolm X a more dynamic op­tion than King to those that see no alternative to violence as a means of improving the status of African-Americans. Cone pointed out that in fact neither Martin King nor Malcolm X had 'the correct' ap­proach to racial injustice. He stated that not only were the viewpoints of the two lead­ers closer than many believe, but they were in fact highly 


Author James Cone addresses an audience in DeBartolo during his lecture entitled "Will the Real Martin and Malcolm Please Stand?" 
Notre Dmirc Co11r11rrmication and Theatre presents the Creek tra,~cdy 
At Washington l bll Wednesday, 

November 16  H p.m.  
Thursday,  
November 17  H p.m.  
Friday,  
November 1 H  Hp.m.  
Saturday,  
November l!J  H p.m.  
Sunday,  
November 20  2:30 p.m.  

Reserved Seats $7 

Student ,lJld senior citizen discounts are available 
Wednesday, Thumlay and Sunday. 
Ticket~ are available at the door or in advanct' .It the 
THE-­

Lal:ortune Student C:entl'r Ticket OHice. 
BACCHAE MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-H 12H. BY EUR.IPIDES 
Direacd hy Guest Director Ho1111ie 1\ifollte 

complementary to each other. continued from page 1 
"Malcolm without Martin is just as detrimental to black self-understanding as Martin without Malcolm," said Cone. Martin King appealed to the Southern blacks and white lib­erals who believed in destroy­ing institutional racism through nonviolence. 
Followers of Malcolm X were burdened not by institutional racism but by the de facto racism of the northern cities, and believed that nonviolence was not an extreme enough Dame and are filled by distin­guished faculty. This, plus the income from the endowment, helps attract strong faculty to Notre Dame," he said. 
The Deloitte & Touche Chair will also benefit the accounting firm, according to O'Meara. 
"It helps in recognition," he said. 
"It gives the firm prominence in the Notre Dame community, particularly those majoring in 
"internal colonialism" inherent in the inner cities, he began to condemn the nation's apathetic citizens and declared that "a curtain of doom is falling over the U.S." He began to see America as less a 'dream' of integration than as a 'night­mare' of racism, a viewpoint that had been· held by Malcolm X all along. 
Malcolm X's views on race are still very misunderstood, Cone said. He did not advocate violence, Cone said, he advo­cated "self-defense" and "fought whites with his intelli­gence." 
According to Cone, when Malcolm X said to further the cause of African-Americans "by any means necessary," he was not referring to violence but to self-improvement. His method­ology for ending racism was thus much closer to Martin King's than is popularly believed. 
The most important similarity between Martin King and Malcolm X, Cone said, was that "(they) were fighting in the same struggle for the same cause-black people affirming their dignity as human beings and white people treating them accordingly." 
910 E. Ireland Road South Bend 

299-0900 
Salon Hours: 
Monday-Friday 9 a.m.-7 p.m. Saturday 8 a.m.-4 p.m. 

Tanning Hours: 
Monday-Friday 7 a.m.-8 p.m. Saturday 7 a.m.-5 p.m. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1977, Ricchiute will be formally installed at a ceremony on March 27. His appointment ~' effective January 7. 
Ricchiute received his bache­lor's degree in accounting from Bryant College (R.I.) in 1970. 
He then earned his master's and doctoral degrees at the University of Kentucky in 197 4 and 1977. 

means with which to further the African-American cause. 
Thus, according to Cone, they both appealed to different groups with different needs and 
1994 STUDENTS A beliefs, and both served the civil rights movement in their THE TAJ MAHALL own way. 
Late in his career, King began also to focus attention on the de facto racism of the northern cities. According to Cone, when King realized the extent of the 

SAINT MARY'S SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
CHALLENGING ACADEMIC PROGRAM FOCUSING ON THE ASIAN WORLD 16 SEMESTER CREDITS APPLICABLE TOWARDS CORE OR MAJOR REQUIREMENTS 
OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL AND STUDY IN MANY COUNTRIES OF FAR EAST, SOUTHEAST ASIA, SOUTH ASIA, EASTERN AND WESTERN EUROPE. 
COST: A SEMESTER'S SMC TUITION -ROOM-BOARD PLUS A SURCHARGE. 
INFORMATION MEETING THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1994 7 P.M. ST. MARY'S HAGGAR PARLOR FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: DR. C. PULLAPILLY MADELEVA 336.SMC. 284~4468/4474 
Lady's Cut & Style...........................$12 Men's Cut.........................................$9 Child Cut & Style..............................$7 Clairol Color...................................$25 Highlight..................................$30-$40 Perms Helen Curtis.....................$36.95 Redken Perms.................................$42 Manicures.......................................$10 Artificial Nails .................................$50 
Erskin Golf Course 


Ireland Road 
..... t----------~ .E
M uj  Sandy's Hair *  ~ ~  
::::>  Design  
Next to China Gardens  

1 Block West of Scottsdale Mall in Ireland Village Shopping Center 

10% DISCOUNT TO ND/SMC STUDENTS 
1/2 Hr.......................$15 
1 Hr...............•.•........$30 
1-1/12 Hr..................$45 
W/COUPON 
~~ Expires 299-0900
~:SIGN 10-24-94
L . 

r---------~~l'ii'IJ1'i4ri---------, 

SPECIALS 
7 Sessions...........$15 w;couPON 20 Sessions.........$40 w;couPON 
~~ Expires Call For Appointment : ~•SIGN 10-24-94 299-8333 : 
L------------------------------------~ 

Wednesday, November 9, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page7 




Tribunal set up in Rwanda 
By PAUL AMES Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS 
The Security Council voted Tuesday to set up an interna­tional tribunal for genocide in Rwanda, despite objections from the new Rwandan gov­ernment that the court won't be able to sentence those found guilty to death. 
In Geneva, U.N. Secretary­General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said he would propose sending troops to restore order in refugee camps on the Zaire border and try to persuade the more than 1 million Rwandans living there to return home. 
The Rwandan government voted against the tribunal be­cause the resolution set life im­prisonment as the maximum sentence, reflecting the Security Council's discomfort with capi­tal punishment. 
"For the past three decades the United Nations has been trying to eliminate the death penalty," said New Zealand's ambassador Colin Keating. "It would be entirely unacceptable and a dreadful step backward to introduce it here." 
Rwanda's ambassador to the Security Council, Manzi Baku­ramutsa, said the lack of a 
death penalty meant the tri­tions of those responsible for cutor for Rwanda. bunal "would only appease the organizing and carrying out the Boutros-Ghali told reporters
conscience of the international ethnic and political slaughter in Geneva Tuesday that he community, rather than re­that left about half a million would submit several optionsspond to the expectations of the dead in the central African na­for patrolling the Zairian camps Rwandan people." tion. to the U.N. Security Council, in­The resolution went some The resolution passed by the cluding dispatching a police 
way to meeting othei-demands 15-member Security Council force or rapid deploymentof the Rwandan government, will open the way for an inter­troops to protect food distribu­including holding trials in national court similar to the tri­tion and stop diversion of food . Rwanda "where feasible and bunal for war criminals from to the black market to buyappropriate." former Yugoslavia, which weapons. 
opened in the Hague, Nether­"It will take time before we Bakuramutsa said his gov­lands, on Tuesday. will be able to obtain the neces­ernment would consider coop­The chief prosecutor in the sary forces to maintain the se­
erating with the tribunal. If it Yugoslav tribunal, South curity in the camps," he did not, U.N. officials said, it African judge Richard Gold-warned. 
School bus accident kills 7 year old boy 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 

A freeway pileup sent metal scaffolding flying off a truck through the side of a school bus, killing a 7 -year-old boy. Thirteen others were injured in the accident. 
"The bus driver slammed off and on the brakes ... and there was this big truck with pipes on it," said 11-year-old Cameron Davis, another of the 17 youngsters being taken home from Calhoun Elementary School. 
"Everybody was slid­ing forward and people were like on the floor screaming and crying," Cameron said. 


Rita 
continued from page 3 
guilty of one charge." 
Since the charge of leaving the scene resulted in a mistrial, Barnes now has the option to retry Rita. On the steps of the courthouse, he told reporters that his office has not yet made a decision regarding a retrial, adding that there was no timetable for a decision on the matter. 
Teresa McCarthy, mother of Mara Fox, privately admitted her disappointment, explaining she could not believe the ver­dict and was "in shock." 
Members of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) had been keeping a vigil throughout the trial, and St. Joseph's County co-coordinator Suzanne Bullock expressed her anger over Rita's acquittal. 
"We're totally flabbergasted" she said. "We expected the completely opposite verdict. We thought the evidence showed he was guilty." 
Asher refused to comment on the case as he left the court­house, saying the he preferred not to comment while his client, though acquitted of one count, still faced possible legal action. 
Liz Foran and Ed lmbus con­tributed to this report. 

By CHRIS TORCHIA 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 

Haiti's new Cabinet ministers took office at the national palace Tuesday, and President­Jean-Bertrand Aristide extend­ed an olive branch to the mili­tary. 
"I want to say again to all Haitian military officers, sol­diers and interim police officers that I have come to bring you peace," Aristide said, in his most direct appeal for military cooperation since he flew home from exile Oct. 15. Many sol­diers had threatened to kill Aristide if he returned. 
He said it was time to "walk hand in hand with the military authorities, Haitian and for­eign." 
At the inauguration cere­mony, in a white columned hall lined with the busts of national heroes, Aristide hugged and shook hands with Prime Minister Smarck Michel and his 1 7 Cabinet ministers. 
Their task will be to turn the country around after three 
Aristide offers peace, new ministers installed 
years of repression. The mili­tary is blamed for condoning 3,000 political murders after Aristide was ousted in a September 1991 coup. 
Hundreds of Haitians gawked from outside the green iron gates surrounding the gleaming white palace, watching guests come and go. American sol­diers and private security guards in civilian dress stood guard. 
Legislators in Parliament's lower house on Monday over­whelmingly endorsed Michel's Cabinet and government plan. 
The 57-year-old prime minis­ter was ratified over the week­end by both houses. His pro­gram includes an economic re­covery program based on re­ducing tariffs, increasing ex­ports and privatizing unprof­itable state enterprises. 
There are reports of contin­ued violence in rural areas de­spite the presence of thousands of U.S. troops. 
About 150 Haitian refugees flew home Tuesday from Cuba, where many had spent at least six months. 



Traffic on Interstate 94 was slowing down for an unrelated acci­dent when a car b::==:::::::::l~______j___ slammed into the rear 
AP/Carl Fox

of the truck carrying the but the accident remained un­scaffolding. The car became der investigation.
lodged under the rear of the Ten youngsters were takenflatbed and caught fire. 
to the Children's Hospital of
The impact also sent the 
Wisconsin for treatment, andflatbed into the back of another 
all but one were released,
car, which hit the back of a 
spokeswoman Caryl Sewellsecond semi-trailer, and the 
said Monday. One boy was inscaffolding was sent flying into fair condition. Also treated and the bus. 
released were the bus driver
The sheriff's department 
and a man and woman in thesaid no charges had been filed car that caught fire. 
-----~--­

page 8 The Observer • ELECTION '94 COVERAGE Wednesday, November 9, 1994 

Republicans victorious in gubernatorial races 
By JILL LAWRENCE Associated Press 
Republicans picked up four Democratic governorships and easily re-elected incumbents from six states Tuesday as the GOP pushed toward its most dominant statehouse role in decades. The surge threatened Democrats across the nation, including stalwarts in New York, Florida and Texas. 
Popular Republican incum­bents in the Midwest and Northeast steam-rolled to vic­tory over weak Democratic op­position. Democrats in Vermont, Arkansas, Nebraska and Colorado also cruised to re-election. 
Frank Keating in Oklahoma, Bill Graves in Kansas, Jim Geringer in Wyoming and Don Sundquist in Tennessee pro­vided Republicans with their first gains, capturing open seats previously held by Democrats. 
"It was a good year to be running as a Hepublican," Graves said. 
In Florida and Texas, veteran Democrats were locked in sur­vival struggles against two of former President Bush's sons. 
The eldest, George W. Bush, was neck-and-neck with Texas Gov. Ann Richards despite the tart, charismatic incumbent's 55-percent-plus job approval rating. 
Younger brother Jeb was giv­ing the same kind of trouble to Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles, a former three-term senator who made issues of Bush's youth, parentage and limited govern­ment experience. 


m~~!=~~:TS 
Dem. GOP  Other  
................ ,..........  
Won  4  12  0  
•••••••·•-··••'"'"'''....,..'''~'m  
Leading  3  9  1  
No race In '94  8  6  0  
0 =-·-.~~dNN'.-.w.'-'·~  
Trend  15  27  

Current division 29 20 
........................................................... 
Net change -10 +10 0 
'7/"end •is the sum of those who have won, those who are leading and the seats not up tor re-election this year. 
AP 
One of the Democrats most at risk was three-term New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, famous for his intellect and oratorical skills but also for his reluctance to run for president, ascend to the Supreme Court or do any­thing but be governor. 
State Sen. George Pataki mounted a strong challenge on a tax-cutting platform, leaving Cuomo tense to the end. 
"Lord, let me understand the outcome and deal with it," Cuomo said he prayed Tuesday after casting his vote. 
Pennsylvania Republican Tom Ridge clung to a slight lead over Democrat Mark Singel in another state the GOP was hoping to switch to its col­umn. 
Candidates were judged win­ners based on analyses of exit poll results, vote tallies from counties and key precincts. The polls of voters as they left precincts were conducted by Voter News Service for The Associated Press and four tele­vision networks. 

Clinton downplays results 
By RON FOURNIER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton, facing the prospect that his party would lose control of Congress, pledged Tuesday night to work closer with Republicans after the rancorous midterm elec­
tions. Still, he asserted that a GOP takeover of Capitol Hill wouldn't "make a great deal of difference." 


But an air Bill Clinton 
of resignation _______ crept over the White House after half the states' polls closed and aides digested the gloomy results of an election that seemed, in many cases, a referendum on Clinton's presidency. 
The president was said to ap­pear disappointed, but not de­feated, at a gathering of party workers in the evening. Emerging from the meeting, Sen. John Breaux, D-La., said Democrats would lose control of _the Senate and many Democratic House seats will turn Republican. 
"I've never served in the mi­nority," the eight-year Senate veteran said glumly, standing in the dark outside the West Wing. 
Aides said Clinton recognized that he will be dealing with a more conservative and more Republican Congress. "I think the president will want to heal the wounds and close the gaps as quickly as possible," press secretary Dee Dee Myers said. 
Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, claimed a wave of Republican advances in Congress, telling CNN, "This election turned into a referendum on Bill Clinton's program." 
Clinton seemed to recognize that himself, prodding Democrats to the polls in a se­ries of 11th-hour radio inter­views early in the day. "The stakes in this election are quite high, as they always are in any midterm election, but especially in this one," Clinton told WOR in New York. 
As the first polls closed, White House aides cracked gloomy jokes about the prospect of a GOP tidal wave. And there was talk about what went wrong. 
Tony Coelho, senior adviser to the Democratic Party, said he wished that Clinton had by­passed a trip to the Middle East and remained on the campaign trail. "Maybe he should have been out there more," he said. 
Republican control of one or both houses of Congress would mean Clinton's legislation would have to go through GOP gatekeepers, and Republican­run committees could focus ethics inquiries on his adminis­tration. The president's 1996 re-election plans would be crimped if Republicans won enough gubernatorial races. 
Asked by ABC Radio what a Republican takeover would mean to the rest of his term, Clinton replied, "Well, I don't know. That'll be up to the American people to decide. 
"But for most of the last 40 years we've had divided gov­ernment. We've had the Congress in one hand and the presidency in another. The American people have kind of gotten used to that. So I don't know that will make a great deal of difference in that sense." 
Speaking hypothetically as voters went to the polls, the president said his legislative agenda would not be altered if Republicans gained control. "But I will have to have more responsible bipartisan efforts on all parts," he told WOR. "I will make my effort and we'll see others make theirs, hope." 
But the president has talked of bipartisan efforts before ­and has either failed to carry them out or has been cut ofT at the knees by the GOP, depend­ing on the view. 
Myers said Clinton "stands ready work with them, and it will be up to the Hepublican side as to how they respond." 
Gramm responded by promis­ing, "An alternative program. An alternative budget, an alter­native vision." 
A late poll by ABC News, con­ducted Monday, put Clinton's job approval rating above 50 percent for the first time in months. But it also said voters who call themselves dissatisfied or angry -and therefore more likely to vote -preferred Republican candidates in the House. 
Throughout the day, Clinton urged Democrats to vote. "It is very important in this election that the American people not vote in anger or in cynicism," an upbeat, but tired-looking, president said at a ceremony for White House volunteers. 
Despite the talk of bipartisan efforts, the president also took one last jab at the GOP. 

Round-Up 
continued from page I 
Colorado, Vermont, Nebraska, Georgia and Arkansas. 
In the Senate, Richard Lugar of Indiana won handily to start the big GOP night. Florida Sen. Connie Mack crushed the clos­est thing to a Clinton on the ballot -Hillary Hodham Clinton's brother, Hugh Rodham. GOP incumbents also won in Mississippi, Montana, Texas, Delaware, Utah and Vermont. Former Gov. John Ashcroft held an open GOP seat in Missouri, and Rep. Craig Thomas did the same in Wyoming. 
Democratic incumbents won in North Dakota, New Jersey, New York, New Mexico, Wisconsin, Connecticut, Maryland, West Virginia, Hawaii -and Massachusetts, where Edward M. Kennedy won handily after an October scare. Kennedy's son, Patrick, will join him in Congress, win­ner of a House seat in Rhode Island. 
Other Republicans winning Democratic Senate seats were Mike DeWine in Ohio, Olympia Snowe in Maine, Jim Inhofe in Oklahoma, Spencer Abraham in Michigan, and Rick Santorum in Pennsylvania. 
The Democratic losses in Oklahoma and Maine were more hurtful than most: the party likely would have held those if not for the surprise, voluntary retirements of George Mitchell and David Boren. 
Crime was on the mind of vot­ers most everywhere, as was a clamoring for change. Clout, on the other hand, didn't seem to matter. Fewer than 25 percent of Tennessee voters said Sasser's power as budget com-

TURKEY SH·OOT 
TEAM TARGET SHOOTING CONTEST 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14 4-6PM TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15 4-6PM CO-REC TEAMS: 2 WOMEN & 2 MEN PER TEAM OPEN TO UNDERGRAD & GRADUATE STUDENTS 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
DEADLINE: THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 10 
CONDUCTED BY NOTRE DAMENAVAL ROTC MEMBERS OF ROTC RIFLE SQUAD l:ifll.EUGJBLE 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY STADIUM GATE 14 

mittee chairman mattered to them. Voters worried about health care tended to side with Democrats, but those worried about taxes -and there were more of them -favored GOP candidates. 
In another troubling trend for Democrats, 67 percent of those who supported Ross Perot for president two years ago voted Republican in House races. "The Democrats will repent and be reborn," was the com­bative Texan's take on the night. Middle class voters also went the GOP's way, particu­larly white men. 
Clinton was an issu~ in most Senate contests and dozens of House races, and Democrats 
GO REALLY IRISH! 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
TONIGHT Nov. 9, 1994 7:00P.M. Game Room, Haggar College Center SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Clubs and Extracurricular Activities at St. Patrick's APPLICATIONS DUE DEC.12 

FR. JOSEPH WAI:IER, c.s.c. 
Chairman ofPreprofessional Studies 
speaks on 







~~How to get into a good medical schoot' 
... TONIGHT 
7:00P.M.
....._; at 
ST. EDWARDS HALL
-

Wednesday, November 9, 1994 The Observer • ELECTION '94 COVERAGE page 9 
• ANALYSIS Cuomo defeated in NY 
Republicans romp to victory as Pataki triumphs 
By WALTER R. MEARS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Angry, alienated, America's voters are turning the face of their government to the right. They got mad, as the political adage goes, and on Tuesday they got even, taking it out on the Democrats, their wrath re­warding Republicans in the midterm congressional elec­tions. 
Getting even with President Clinton, the purported New Democrat they'd chosen only two years ago to salve their frustration and revive their economy. Now times are better, as Clinton has said, over and over. 
Yet as voters left polling places across the nation, they said they fear for the future, no matter the upturn. In early exit polls conducted by The Associated Press and the four major TV networks, at least half the voters said they were no better off economically than two years ago, and about a quarter said they feel it's worse for them now. 
Clinton's approval ratings in the West and Midwest hovered around 44 percent. They were higher in the East at about half, and dismal in the South, 36 percent. 
The voters were also getting even with the Democrats who have run Congress for most of their lifetimes. "Not since 1952 have Republicans controlled the United States Congress," said Sen. Bob Dole. "That's when 


House 
As of 10:05 p.m. EST 
Dem. GOP Other Won 90 99 0 
!:~ad~~L--·~--~--74 81 o Tnmd 164 180 0 
·-...... ' ............ ~........._ Current division 256 178 1 
Net C:tll'ln9e '""""":::Sa~·+3t-::t 
"Trend • is the sum of those who have won, those who are leading and the seats not up for re-election this year. 
AP Eisenhower was elected presi­dent, the Dodgers were still in Brooklyn, and a postage stamp cost 3 cents. 
"One hundred and fifty five million Americans have been born since Republicans last controlled the United States Congress," the Senate GOP leader said. They had the Senate for six years, until 1986; last held the House in 1954. 
As the polls closed across the time zones, Republicans were gaining the seven seats they needed to control the Senate, but with unsettled contests still holding the balance. 
In Vice President AI Gore's Tennessee, Republicans swept two Senate seats from Democrats -one once his ­and took over the governorship. 
"You know, I've never been in a minority before," said Sen. John Breaux of Louisiana, one of the Democrats who helped take back the Senate in 1986. 
Ironically, the retiring House Republican leader, Rep. Robert 

gilts that serve the maker 

f!ii!!ihop u,-t; Ln,Fo:r"t-..II.e f!ii!!i"t-..deii.-t; Ueii. 
No-v. •o ~ •• 
I:Io-..:rs D n,.m. "' 6 H.oom •o@!j 

David Mamet, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of "Glengarry Glen Ross," "The Verdict," "The Untouchables," and "Speed -the-Plow," is back with what has become the most talked about 
-and argued about -play of the year. Now you can take a seat -and take a side -at 
"A riveting report from the war zone between genders. See OLEANNA!" 
-Jack Kroll, Newsweek 


Wednesday, November 16 
7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium For Tickets Call 219/284-4626 


Senate 
As of 10:05 p.m. EST 
Dem. GOP Other 
• .-~·-·•_.·~·-,___,, ¥ •·-~·· " ' --~···~ _, <w••·~•··---~~--n--M.w 
Won 9 17 0 
~~.~--~~~'""""~ ••oM.WV MN.M.m.; •• -~.-.~~·"'"<'"o"<'<•-'<•""'"·~~~ 
~~~a~-~---~-~-~-"~~--~-_E,, 
No race in '94 34 31 0 
Trend 47 48 0 
................,........ ................................................_...... .. .
~ 

Current division 56 44 0 
............._. ... ····~·.... ····· ......,.....,..,...• ·~ ..........; .... ··········•·;--'·:{•::~ ..•:· Net change · · ~ · · +6 0 
"Ti"end "is the sum of those who have won, those who are leading and the seats not up tor re-election this year. 
AP 
H. Michel of Illinois, had never been in anything else. Michel served longer in the House mi­nority than anyone ever had before, and leaves as they have their best year in four decades. 
They needed 40 seats to win control for the first time since 1954, and partial, inconclusive returns showed enough GOP takeovers for that to happen. 
Exit polling indicated about an even split when voters were asked whether they had gone Republican or Democratic. Parity was a plus for Republicans; they hadn't man­aged it in the overall congres­sional vote in 20 elections. 
They were gaining governors, too, in number and in big state clout, no small factor for the 1996 presidential election. 
It was an election day of get­ting even with Washington, the Beltway denizens, of protesting the negative, nasty campaign­ing th"at became the low road standard in the midterm cam­paign. 
By RICK HAMPSON 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Mario Cuomo wound up Tuesday night as the might­have-been of American politics. In the end, the silver-tongued orator who once seemed des­tined for the White House or the Supreme Court couldn't even talk New Yorkers into giv­ing him a fourth term as gover­nor. 
Cuomo wrote his own political epitaph in a rambling conces­sion speech that sounded like a long thank-you note to family, friends and supporters. 
Speaking wistfully of the plans he had made for the next four years, Cuomo conceded that his communication skills had failed: "I was not able to make the case clearly enough. ... I'm sorry to have let you down." 
That would have seemed un­likely in 1984, when Cuomo electrified the Democratic Convention with a stirring speech that affirmed liberal values in the Age of Reagan. 
Cuomo had became governor in 1982 after upsetting New York Mayor Ed Koch in the Democratic primary and defeating conservative tycoon Lew Lehrman in November. He was easily re-elected in 1986, and two years later his approval rating hit 77 percent. 
But then the '80s boom col­lapsed, and things began to sour for Cuomo. He seemed to vacillate endlessly before decid­ing not to run for president in 1988 and 1992. He became linked to the state's high tax burden, its bulging welfare rolls, its sagging economy. He turned down President Clinton's offer of a seat on the Supreme Court. 
By this year Cuomo's ap­proval rating had sagged to 32 percent, and the three-term in­cumbent was running as an underdog -and running, he said, against himself. 
Indeed, despite real differ­ences between the candidates -Cuomo's anti-death penalty stance, GOP nominee George Pataki's proposed income tax cut -the race came down to Cuomo. 
That seemed fme with Pataki, a state senator who entered the race as "George Who?" and soon became known as "The UnCuomo." 
The campaign had one elec­trifying moment -Republican Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's en­dorsement of Cuomo last month -but the governor had to watch as his resulting edge in the polls slowly melted away in the race's fmal days. 
In exit polls on Tuesday only one in 10 voters predicted Cuomo would lower taxes if re­elected, even though the gov­ernor in fact had done so twice in the past. Two-thirds of voters said Cuomo simply had been in office too long. 
The exit poll was based on 1,626 interviews outside voting places around the state con­ducted by Voter News Service, a cooperative of the four televi­sion networks and The Associated Press. 
North loses in Virginia race 
By ANNE GEARAN 
Associated Press 

RICHMOND 
Sen. Charles Robb won a bat­tle of tarnished heroes Tuesday, defeating Oliver North in a Senate race that turned Virginia's tradition of political gentility on its head. 
With 56 percent of precincts counted, Robb, the Democratic incumbent, had 45 percent to 40 percent for the Republican North. Independent Marshall Coleman trailed with 15 per­cent. 
Robb, scarred by his own al­leged extramarital affairs and parties with drug figures, had battled fiercely against North, who seven years ago stood be­fore Congress and admitted ly­ing about his role in the Iran­Contra scandal. 
Appropriately enough, after their toe-to-toe campaign, both men used boxing as an analogy in election-night speeches to their supporters. 
The 55-year-old Robb, son-in­law of the late President Johnson, likened himself to boxing's newest-and oldest -heavyweight champion. "George Foreman is indeed an inspiration," he said. 
North, conceding defeat, broadly hinted that his political career is not over. 
"You may recall in my much younger days at Annapolis, that I was a boxing champion," he said. "What you may not re­member is that the first time I tried I was defeated in the quarterfinal. And the second time, I lost in the semifinal. But the third time, I won." 
Politics had always been a civil exercise in Virginia since its sons, George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, helped establish democratic govern­me.nt in America. 
But the discredited figures of North and Robb and their nasty, personal and expensive political duel left Virginians questioning what the process had wrought. 
Nearly four of every 10 voters surveyed in a statewide exit poll said they felt neither Robb nor North has the honesty or integrity to serve in the Senate. A majority said Robb and North had waged a sleazy campaign. 
The poll was conducted by Voter News Service, a coopera­tive of The Associated Press and the four television net­works. 
North spent $18 million in his bid to join the Congress he once scorned. He mobilized a corps of conservative Christians and voters whose anger at govern­ment approached critical mass. 
Robb, the straight-arrow for­mer Governor once seen as presidential material, had fought not just for re-election but to reclaim his tattered im­age. 
Coleman, a Republican­turned-independent, ran as the protege of the courtly Sen. John Warner, a GOP moderate. Coleman's candidacy angered many Virginia Republicans. North energized his con­stituents early, invoking Reagan-era conservatism and old-time religion as he criss­crossed Virginia in a recre­ational vehicle he had chris­tened "Rolling Thunder." He seized the GOP nomination from a party insider and rocked the state's staid political estab­lishment. 
From the outset, he ham­mered away at Robb's aile­
giance to the liberal initiatives of President Clinton, noting that in 1993 Robb voted in support of Clinton's proposals 95 per­cent of the time. 
While North spent the sum­mer traveling Virginia's back­roads building a solid rural coalition and eroding the 13­point lead Robb held in early July, Robb remained in Washington claiming important Senate business was at stake. 
By September, North had pulled even with Robb. And by October, North held a slight but statistically insignificant lead. Only then did Robb take the of­fensive, airing ads attacking North's truthfulness. 
From that point on, the race escalated into one of the nasti­est, most bitter contests in modern Senate history. 
It reached some sort of cli­max on Monday, when Robb at­tacked North as a "document­shredding, Constitution-trash­ing; Commander in Chief-bash­ing, Congress-thrashing, uni­form-shaming, Ayatollah-lov­ing, arms-dealing, criminal­protecting, resume-enhancing, Noriega-coddling, Social Security-threatening, public school-denigrating, Swiss-bank­ing-law-breaking, letter-faking, self-serving, election-losing, snake-oil salesman who can't tell the difference between the truth and a lie." 
North, for his part, attacked Robb during the campaign with ads featuring a Playboy maga­zine cover. It showed a scantily clad beauty contestant who Robb acknowledged had given him a nude back rub. 
The ads also noted that Robb as governor had attended par­ties in Virginia Beach where drugs were used. 








VIEWPOINT 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief jake Peters Managing Editor Bwiness Manager john Lu= Joseph Riley 

Newo Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor.. ............. Eiizaberh Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe administra­
tion of either insdru£ion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leucrs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available <0 all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
Wednesday, November 9, 1994 

• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
In spite ofambivalence, Fox's family thanks ND 
Dear Editor: 
Our family would like to thank the many Notre Dame students and faculty for their unstinting prayers, support and love they have given us this past year. It has been a most difficult time for us on many levels, and to "blame" Notre Dame for Mara's death would be easy. This we cannot do. Without the enormous support we have received, to become embittered would have been easy, but ultimately unproductive. 
Thank you all. The loss of our beautiful talented daughter and sister will cause a void in all our lives forever. However, what we have experienced in South Bend will enable all of us to move on in a more positive manner. 
Mara's death has left a legacy at Notre Dame. We pray that others in the future can benefit from it. 
TERESA McCARTHY On behalf of her family Terry McCarthy, Charles Fox, and Mara's sisters, Rachel and Sarah. 

Support always appropriate 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Carolyn Chaput's recent letter, in which she states that while the death of Mara Fox has served as a tragedy and huge loss to our Notre Dame community. Among other things, she disagrees with the fact that information was provided to students regarding times of the trial. I believe that Chaput does not quite understand the concept of support. 
When I, as Lyons Hall Co-President, announced at the November 1 meeting of Hall Presidents Council that students could call me if they wanted informa­tion regarding the trial of John Rita, my goal was to invite as many students possible from our "Notre Dame Family" to come and support Mara's parents and close friends. I sat in the courtroom three times during the past week, along with as many as thirty other Lyonites and Notre Dame students, and each time, Mara's parents expressed sincere thanks and gratitude for our presence. In other words, we have made them feel as if they are not alone in dealing with this tragedy. 
No, we are not sitting in the classroom shaking pom-pons and holding up signs which read, "Go Barnes!! COnvict Rita!!" Instead, we are gathered as a community of love, faith, and support for those who have been hit hardest by Mara's death. In fact Mara's mother, Teresa McCarthy, was just quoted in a November 8 Observer article as saying that our presence has been par­ticularly inspiring and helpful during the trial process." If this doesn't sum­marize the essence of support, I'm not sure what does. 
I believe it was necessary and in Catholic character to invite "random" stu­dents to observe the Rita trial. Of these random students, only the ones who truly cared attended. I can state this as a fact, because as I glanced around the courtroom, I saw no pom-pons or nasty signs. All I saw were students who cared so much that they were willing to put aside everything to support and share the pain of others. This is a sign of true Christian compassion. 
LAURA MERRITT Lyons Hall Co-President 



D.C. a modern Ninevah? 
Dear Editor: Fall Break was an occa­sion to visit Washington 
D.C. and to interact in soul and body with this metro­politan capital-the center of one of the world's great economic and military pow­ers. When you have such a lot of power concentrated in a small area, it would be expected that there should be a lot of pushing and jostling to get a foothold. The October 27 issue of the Washington Post carried a satirical cartoon of an eager politician begging for a place in Congress. This character points to the dome of the Capitol in the background and says: "Folks, there is Washington D.C.-sin city-a modern Gomorrah-a place of pay­rollers at the public trough and wickedness beyond re­demption! Please put me on that payroll and send me there to live!" 
The choice of biblical name did intrigue me. To liken D.C. to Gomorrah is a bold comparison. Gomorrah was a city evil beyond imagination. Even the inter­cession of Abraham did not avail to rescue this city from divine destruction. Certainly it was an appro­priate choice for the car­toonist's purposes. Prophets who eat at the king's table are well known to us from antiquity. But a prophet who pronounces an irrevo­cable sentence of doom on a nation-and then offers to serve at the court of that nation-is unconvincing, to say the least. 
But Washington is not Gomorrah. The very day 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''T.V. is chewing gum for 
the mind." 
-Frank lloyd Wright 

that I viewed the White House the President was negotiating peace in the Middle East. It is easy to be cynical. But the words of the Gospel are uncondi­tional: "Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God." Gomorrah is not the dwelling place of peace. 
But Washington is not Paradise. The same Government that has worked for peace in foreign soils has also permitted the genocide of unborn Americans. By seeking to project a non-fascist and truly democratic image the Government has eliminated and continues to eliminate some of the very people that it was elected to serve. Freedom of choice is not democracy. It is the ugly face of a self-serving Capitalism which proclaims shamelessly: "I want to enjoy all the benefits that my country provides. I will not share them with any­one-not even with you, my son or my daughter." 
Washington may not be Gomorrah, but it certainly answers to the charge of blind leadership that strains out gnats and swal­lows camels. I believe the advocates of freedom of choice are decent people. I do not believe that those who legislate these laws are necessarily evil. But I do believe that they lack wis­dom. Thus Washington re­sembles rather the Assyrian city of Nineveh, that great super power of antiquity, whose generals could taunt even the gods of the neigh­boring nations. But when 
--~--------~------------, 
God looked upon Nineveh, he only felt a great pity. God saw "a city of a hun­dred and twenty thousand people who cannot tell their right hand from their left." (Jonah 4:11) 
I strolled past the Capitol and then viewed the facade of the fabulous Library of Congress. Surely this was the modern equivalent of Ashurbanipal's Library at Nineveh, that renowned library of antiquity. I con­tinued my perambulation, and stopped to clarify my bearings. In front of the avenue leading up to the Capitol stood an armed guard in immaculate attire. I could not find a more reli­able source of information, or so I thought. I asked him the way to Constitution Avenue. He told me it was the next street on the right. I thanked him and walked in the direction he had indi­cated. I did not reach Constitution, but I crossed Independence Avenue. I kept walking until I sus­pected there was something wrong. I retraced my steps and came back to the same guard. "The street on the right is not Constitution," I explained, "It is Independence Avenue." He immediately apologized. "I am sorry," he said, "Constitution Avenue is to the left. I guess I must have been facing the wrong direction." I was truly in Nineveh, where the inhabi­tants do not know their right hand from their left! 
BASIL S. DAVIS Graduate Student ofTheology 


l 
j 
~





ACCENT I 
I 
Wednesday, November 11, 1994 page 11 
Alumni 'Teach for America' 
Graduates {rom all majors find themselves serving in the classroom 
By TONY POTTINGER McGerry, a 1993 Notre Dame Accent Writer graduate in English and pyschology, has found TFA a When Alison McGerry began way to realize a lifelong dream. teaching at Roosevelt She explained, "For me, teach­Elementary in the Compton ing was something I've always neighborhood of Los Angeles, wanted to do, but Notre Dame she knew that this was no ordi­lacks an education major. nary school. Teach for America was a way 
"There were seven reading for me to get my certification at books for my thirty-three stu­no cost while I worked." dents. There was no photo­Kendra Washington, who copier in the school except for graduated last May from Notre an old fashioned blue-ink Dame with a degree in com­mimeograph machine. I had to munications and theater, has buy pencils and supplies with found, like McGerry, her as­my own money for the kids to signment in the Bronx to be as use." rewarding as it is challenging. 
This is just one example of ''I'm from the New York City the challenges facing partici­school system and it is not that pants in Teach for America good. It is the toughest job (TFA). the National Teacher you'll ever have to do. If you Corps, a service program want to get into teaching, espe­engendered five years ago in cially in this environment, it's the senior thesis of Princeton not for the money," Washington University graduate, Wendy said. Kopp. Inspired by spending two of 
Teach for America places 500 her Notre Dame summers at 
specially chosen graduates each home teaching gardening to challenge for me is motivating America has been an eye-open­her native Glen Ellyn, Illinois, a
year from the nation's top inner-city youth, Washington 
these students and getting them ing experience. "You're protect­Chicago suburb. "I don't giveuniversities to serve a two-year decided to forsake graduate 
to be motivated about their ed under the Dome for four my kids homework," Mendez
stint as teachers in the nation's school opportunities at Boston education in general," Killen years. You don't know what it's said. "A lot don't have crayons
poorest rural and inner-city University and Syracuse 
lamented. "But the job itself is like to be completely out in the or supplies or even a place or aschools. They are paid a salary University. 
rewarding beyond anything I real world. Twenty-five four­table to do it on." 
consistent with any first-year "I found that I liked teaching 
teacher, though Teach a more than my major. could imagine." year-olds make you grow up Mendez and her colleagues
for lot 

A 1992 Notre Dame graduate and get responsible real quick. teach at-risk children whomAmerica "corps members" are Teach for America has been the in government and interna­When I heard the requirements she defines as children at riskdifferent in that they lack any right choice for me. I have been tional studies, the New Jersey for TFA, it had me written all for "failing at life." She teachesformal training in education. able to teach and train while native has found Teach for over it," Mendez said. a bilingual kindergarten class"We look for students who getting certified." 
America a way to continually Mendez echoes the senti­in a school that is 60% Hispanic are non-education majors but Washington, who teaches 34 reap the benefits of her year in ments of many TFA corps mem­and 40% African-American.
who have a strong desire to fourth-grade students math, 
Mexico while at Notre Dame. "I bers when explaining her Each morning she greets herteach and work with children," language arts, music, handwrit­feel a successful teacher should motives for following such a dif­students with a handshake andsaid Danny Morris, Director of ing, and science, will attend have a lot of experiences to be ficult vocation. asks them to share something
Public Affairs for Teach for Columbia or Fordham 
effective." "I wanted to give back a little important in their lives that hasAmerica. The program at­University's teaching colleges For Roxanne Mendez, a 1993 for what I've been given all my happened in the past day.
tempts to address one of the next year and plans to stay in graduate in Spanish, Teach for life. I wanted to make a change "It gives you a fulfillment that core problems of the current the classroom. 
America has been a continuing and try to provide the best edu­you're rooted and you knoweducation crisis. A few miles south of outlet for her interests in ser­cation possible for my students. what you're doing is important,"Veteran teachers are fleeing Washington's school, Judith vice and social justice. A volun­Every member of the corps that you can convince thesethe public school system; tal­Killen is teaching Hispanic sev­teer at South Bend's Center for feels this way." kids that they can be a teacher,
ented teachers are in short­enth graders in the Harlem 
the Homeless and the Center Her school where she works a doctor, or a lawyer," saidage," said Morris. neighborhood. "The biggest for Spcial Concerns, Teach for in Houston is worlds away from Mendez. 

Oliver Stone: A retrospective 
By MARA DIVIS to production territory, he told Entertainment 
Accent Writer ...~~~~ information said. Weekly. He was decorated with 
Murder appears the Purple Heart and Bronze 
Whether the action be in the Weekly. as entertainment. Star for service in Vietnam be­
depths of Southeast Asian jun­Natural Bor In addition to fore returning to the United 
gle or probing the mind-set of Killers, work exploring States in 1968. 
serial killers, Oliver Stone's released this today's America, "Vietnam has applications to 
motion pictures have gripped summer, sati­three of Stone's any of seven or eight interven­
America's psyche, made mil­rizes the recent films have tions in the Third World by 
lions at the box office and won American dealt with America," he said. ''I'm amazed 
him two Academy Awards for public's and aspects of the people don't see the relevance 
Best Director. media's fasci­Vietnam issue. of it. Whether the helmets are 
His recent films have focused nation with Films have in Panama or the Gulf War is 
on America's societal fixations violence and focused on totally irrelevant. It's the same 
and a fascination with intrigue demonstrates Vietnam experi-human beings who are going to 
or conspiracy. JFK, released in the way war."
the '.llllj•-•

media can -~~~~--~-~----------ences both per­Stone was born in New York 
a hidden conspiracy behind fascinate and frighten the pub­These include documentary sal. Academy Award-winning and studied at Yale before leav­
John F. Kennedy's assassina­lic. video, animated drawings, Platoon handled front-line bat­ing for the Far East to teach 
tion. That gave him a reputa­Stone presents a mass-mur­blue-green film effects and ties while Born on the Fourth of English, Math, History and 
tion as a film maker with a dering couple, Mickey and black and white footage. July viewed the returned veter-Geography at a Catholic high 
knack for stirring up contro­Mallory Knox, and the impact "Employing the very tech-an perspective, as Tom Cruise's school in Saigon. 
versy. their violent tendencies have on niques used by tabloid journal-character returns from fighting He voluntarily enlisted in the 
"My name has become syn­society. ists to bring crime stories into the war to face a losing battle U.S. Army in 1967 and served 
onymous with lunatic, conspir­"Stone turns conventional our homes-mock-documentary at home, a depleted war effort in the 25th Infantry Division 
acy buff," said Stone, who narrative 6n its ear and pro­"crime reactions," the produc-and opposition to returning near the Cambodian border and 
speaks at Stepan Center duces an unexpected new view­in the 1st Cavalry Division in 1991, handles the possibility of if to strengthen the satire. sonal and univer­
tion information read. "Hand-vets. 
tonight, in an interview with point," according to the film's held news cameras pushing Heaven and Earth, a motion­Vietnam. 
Entertainment Weekly. production information. "It's into the faces of the bereaved, picture release from earlier this He returned to the U.S. in 
"However, the world is rooted the hyped-up, amused, furious, courtroom sketches, video year, also ·dealt with the ensu­1968 and completed his under­
in conspiracy... I don't know passionate, sensuous and movies of the week and full-ing conflicts of the Vietnam graduate studies at New York 
why the so-called opinion mak­deranged outlook of the killers color film." issue. Based on a Vietnamese University's film school in 1971. 
ers use the word 'conspiracy' in themselves, as terrified of their It seems to remind the viewer woman's autobiography, it cov­He worked as a taxi driver and 
a derogatory fashion." own demons as they are terrify­that that's how it's done: with ers her challenges during and a messenger, and wrote 11 
Other films have concentrated ing to the world around them." cameras, microphones, a trick after the war in her country. unproduced screenplays before 
on the public's recent interest He also uses the forms of of the lights and imperturbably Each of Stone's Vietnam his success of Midnight Express 
in sensations and tabloid news media he intends to criticize, as invasive interviewer, according movies is an exploration of new in 1978. 
r 
I 
I I I I I I I I 
•NHL 


Hockey strike talks to resume Thursday 
Associated Press  scheduled games have been  
missed.  
TORONTO  "As long as you're meeting, it  
A day after a seven-hour ne­ is encouraging," said  
gotiating meeting, hockey play­ Philadelphia Flyers general  
ers and owners decided to meet  manager Bobby Clarke, who  
again Thursday.  attended Monday's session.  
While the sides didn't make  "Nothing from my perspective  
any announcement, an agent,  has changed. I'm still optimistic  
speaking on the condition he  that something is going to get  
not be identified, said Tuesday  done."  
the parties had agreed to go  Until then, fans will have to be  
back to the table.  satisfied with exhibition hock­ 
The site, he said, has not yet  ey. The NHL Players  
been determined. But the fact  Association has organized a  
that talks will continue, he said,  four-team tournament starting  
was encouraging.  Thursday in Hamilton, Ontario,  
Still, with no prospect of a  with proceeds going to Ronald  
season in sight, Toronto Maple  McDonald children's charities.  
Leafs captain Doug Gilmour  There's also been talk of a  
said he's leaving Sunday to play  three-week, six-team league  
in Switzerland, and the  based in non-NHL cities. That  
Vancouver Canucks announced  league would be organized by  
staff cuts, laying off two em­ the NHLPA if the season is can­ 
ployees. The Calgary Flames,  celed.  
New Jersey Devils, Dallas Stars  
and Winnipeg Jets already had  Players representing Quebec,  
made layoffs.  Ontario, Western Canada and  
Gilmour, who will JOin  the United States will compete  
Rapperswil-Jona in the Swiss  Thursday through Saturday in  
League, said he still held out  Hamilton. The game will fea­ 
hope for a deal.  ture sides of four players com­ 
peting in running-time periods.  
"Maybe we'll be called back  In-game penalties will be re­ 
in a week and this will be like a  placed by post-game penalty  
training camp for me," Gilmour  shots.  
said. ''I'm trying to be opti­ 
mistic. We'll be back soon."  Gilmour, New York Rangers  
The lockout, in its 39th day,  goaltender Glenn Healy and an  
already has led the league to  NHLPA employee were the only  
cancel 14 games from each  players at Tuesday's optional  
team's schedule. A total of 215  practice.  

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 9, 1994 
• BASEBAll 

Owner's ad creates controversy 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Just two days before the scheduled resumption of nego­tiations, union head Donald Fehr criticized owners for try­ing to "fool the public" with their latest advertising cam­paign. 
Fehr was angered that own­ers bought a full page in Wednesday's editions of USA Today and claimed baseball's "long-term financial viability" was threatened by "huge pay­rolls (that) also impair the league's competitive parity." 
The ad, which owners re­leased Tuesday, said manage­ment's bargaining proposal is needed to preserve teams in Pittsburgh, Milwaukee and Kansas City. Owners also say they're "determined to reach an agreement on a new con­tract so that the 1995 baseball season can begin on schedule." 
"I think what it clearly says is they believe it's a public rela­tions war," Fehr said. "I think 

"It is something that our peo­ple conceived of and imple­mented two weeks ago," Selig said by telephone from Phoenix, where he was attend­ing baseball's marketing meet­ings. "Certainly at that time we didn't know anything about the mediation process taking place with meetings starting Thursday. "We don't believe it's at all confrontational." 
The sides have met formally just five times since players struck Aug. 12 and just once since owners canceled the sea­son Sept. 14. Mediator W.J. Usery, appointed last month by the Clinton adminstration, called for the renewed talks, which are scheduled to run through Sunday. 
"It's important that fans, players and management un­derstand that at this time in history baseball needs some fine tuning," Selig said in a statement that accompanied the ad. "That should be the context into which all parties seek answers and peace." 
However, owners still insist on ers in his public comments, resumed his tough rhetoric. Asked if there was any agenda items for the talks, he respond­ed: "My attitude is to let the clubs talk about whatever they're going to talk about. I do not believe anything we have said or done ... has had any effect on the clubs at all." 
Selig was upset by Fehr's comments and said owners hadn't decided about imposing a cap or using replacement players, another tactic the union fears. 
"Our energies for the next month or so will be directed to mediation," he said. 
Attending the bargaining later this week will be Colorado Rockies chairman Jerry McMorris, Boston Red Sox chief executive office John Harrington, Atlanta Braves president Stan Kasten, Philadelphia Phillies co-general partner Dave Montgomery, Milwaukee Braves general counsel Wendy Selig-Prieb and former St. Louis Cardinals CEO Stuart Meyer. 
think they're just trying to set 

a salary cap and the union says 
the stage for implementation 

it never will accept one. Players
and trying to fool the public." 

believe owners will impose a 
Talks are to resume Thursday 
salary cap unilaterally. 
at an executive retreat in Rye 

"I would love to be pleasantly
Brook, N.Y., the suburb north 

surprised," Fehr said, "but we 
of New York where Fehr lives. 

detect nothing and have de­
One union official, speaking on 

tected nothing for a long time 
condition he not be identified, 

but the hardest possible line. 
said the union believes owners 

And that's where they still 
placed the ad to irritate the 
are." 
players' association going into 

Fehr, who in recent weeks 
the bargaining sessions. 

has been less harsh about own-

Recycle The Observer 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

NOTICES 

SCI-FI & FANTASY SATURDAY November 12th 10.6 233-2342 all sci-fi pbk books 50.75% offf Pandora's Books 808 Howard St 
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS 10-6m-sat pandora's books ND ave & Howard st 1Q-6 m-sat 233-2342 cool stuff cool store 
OCTOPUSSY Thu 8,1030 LaFortune Montgomery Theatre by SUB 

USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES Pandora's Books 233-2342 ND Ave & Howard M-Sa/10-6 Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store 
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from around the world. GLOBAL GIFTS at LaFortune Student Center. Nov. 1 0 & 11, Room 1 08, 9am-6pm. 
WOLF FrVSat 8,1030 Cushing Auditorium by SUB 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND: One black Casio watch near Stonehenge on Sat. 11/5 Call Jen @ 2446 
LOST: set of keys on BUD LIGHT key chain possibly at KNOITSYR CALL MIKE X3054 

WANTED 

CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ment available. No experience nec­essary. For more information call 1­206-634-0468 ext C55841 TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK 
'951 LOWEST PRICESI JAMAICA, 
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE. 
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1 
ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL 
FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURSt­
800-426-7710 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 
Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 
1 (800)359-9808 
Wantedllllndividuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING BREAK '95. Earn substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­800-327-6013 
LOCAL CONSULTING FIRM 
SEEKS SALESIMKTG. ASST. FOR 
94195 SCHOOL YEAR. 
FLEX. HAS. 
HOURLY WAGE & COMM. 
GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO G).IN 
VALUABLE SALES EXP. 
(219) 256-9546. 
AITENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF· MOTIVATED Students. The ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is currently interviewing students lor Summer '95 management posi­tions. Earn money in excess of $10,000. Call now, 1-800-477-1001 lor a campus representative. 

FOR RENT 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­773-2034 
WANTED: LAWIMBNGRAD STUDENT TO SHARE FURNISHED APT FOR SPRING SEMESTER. CALL 273-6418 FOR MORE INFO. 

FOR SALE 
EA HOCKEY lor IBM 1994 players with trades, etc ... almost brand new, has all books and the registration form. best offer; call Tom at4-1712 '93 Camero Z28, 6-speed, 
pw, pdl, abs, Clarion 
CD player, alarm, 10k miles 
never seen winter. $18,000. 
Call4-1970 

Exercise bike, dual action; $100; 
289-7017 

486 DX2-66, VESA, Pentium Upg, 
420m, 4m RAM, SVGA, Fax/Mod 
14.4Kb, Sltwr, under guarantee 
1550$ or b/o. , ldriss 631 5631 
FOR SALE-Tandy Dot Matrix 
Printer $60 call Amy x1480 
FOR SALE-Magnavox VideoWriter 
Word Processor + 4 ribbon car­
tridges $100 call Amy x1480 
FOR SALE: IBM compatible 486, 
w/color monitor, keyboard, mouse 
loaded with software-microsoft 
office, windows,lotus, harvard 
graphics-$900 or best offer -X0640 

TICKETS 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 
272-6551 

FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL 
HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 
I NEED 3 AF GAs! Sam X4872 
Need 2 AIR FORCE GAs 
Please call Curtis 282-2197 
FLORIDA STATE TICKETS 
FOR SALE 277-1659 
I NEED AF GA's 
DAVE 634-1198 
HELPII Need 2 GA's or stud tix lor Air Force call AMY 277-4612 
Need two Air Force GAs Leslie 273­9303 
4SALE: 2 USC GA'S II x3373 
I have 2 FSU GA's lor sale. Call Anne at 312-907-8075 with your offer. Leave a message with your phone # if not home. 
Need: 

Air Force GAs (2 or 4 together) 
call Marc at X3309 or X3300 
NEED 2 air Ioree GAs & 2 studs call shannon x4236 
-HELP­$$$ I NEED$$$ AIR FORCE GA'S CALL GARY 277-9279 
NEEDED: 4 AIRFORCE GA'S 
Please call Jenny at x1295!11 
2 FSU GA's. Jeff· 1-3906 
I need 2 Air Force GAs !Ill Call 
Kevin@ 271-7284 

FSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSU One FSU ticket lor sale, Best Offer Call 232-8337 FSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSU 
NEED 2 Air Force GA's­
Call Mary Heather@ 4-2509. 
I need 2 AF GA's. 
Call X0718. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need 1 AF Student ticket PLEASE! Michael·x4050 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need Tickets!!! 
4 Air Force GA's 
Call Sean at 4.0602 

2 Air Force GA's lor Sale 235-3394 
1 FSU TIX lor sale, Call Christina 
@284-5543 

FOR SALE: 2 FSU GA's 255-7961 alter 6p 
FOR SALE· 2 AF GA's, 2 AF st 2 USC GA's • X2818 
AF, SO.CAL & FSU GA'S FOR SALE. 288·1186. 
4 FSU tix lor sale catherine x4308 
I NEED 1 AF STUD. TIX. MIKE 289-3203 
One way plane ticket from Orlando to South Bend 11/13/94 on Delta Call x1699 Mike Best Offer 
have 2 Fla St. GA's call Jason at 272-4297 

NEED air Ioree tix:2studs & 2 GAs call shannon x4236 

PERSONAL 
Seamaisin at the Midway Tavern, 2 blocks So. of Hacienda on 4th Street... ... Every Thursday 
Happy Birthday Emily Lincoln I 
FOOTBALL NO. 58= KINETIC ENERGY. II intrigued, respond in classilieds. (Address to KIWI) 
Chris & Garrett-Massage your feet? Yeah, right 
TONIGHT AT BRIDGETS KIDKAOS THE IDIOT INVASION IS ON! 
Hey Anthony Freaks, You smell like a turd! love, Kinky 

Quality Copies, Quicklylll 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
We're Open Early, Late, & Weekends!ll 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 

Get Stoned!!!! Get Stoned!!!! Get Stoned!!II Get Stoned!!!! Get Stonedllll Get Stoned !Ill Come See Oliver Stone on Wed. November 9 at 7:30 in Stepan Center. Tix on Sale at LaFortune, $3 
To the women ol334 Siegfried: Thanks lor the invitation! Join us lor a group beer sometime! 
Love, 1012 Grace Notes from the great Ballroom 
Dance Crusade to UIUC, 11/5/94 
15. When do we get to Iowa City? 
14. You'd better marry a morning person. 
13. Pet ze pooch 
12. Bet you feel like a schmuck nowI 
11 . Comprennez-vous francais? jCiaro, yo te entiendo! 
10. It's the rhumba ... now fall in love with me. 
9. Genna build an arky-arky .... 
8. The Prodigal Son Suite 
7. II he's in there with a woman I'll be very upset. 
6. #88 ... bring some of that over here! 
5. Do you know how to hustle? No. Good, let's dance. 
4. An icicle, Dr. Watson. 
3. Chicken butt! 
2. Of course, you can dance any steps you like. Doesn't mean you'll... win. (RIP #44) 
1. Super-Frame Man Yeah Sherstin, we're awesome! OSU is ours! (with a little paitence ... ) Love Ed 
Lost: Tt-85 black calculator on 
Nov. 7, possibly left in 101 
Debartolo Call Nate at x2284 
Kevin, Chris, Andy, and Squiggy of Campus View 302 (277-1323) are the best roommates a girl could ask lor...callthem up lor a good time. Rex Smith attire optional, and bring some extra smokes lor Kevin which, consequently, he will blow in your mouth in an attempt to per­suade everyone into free love on his back porch. No but really, they are great guys. 
Brad McPeek and Michele Potter are still waiting by their phones ... call A-IN-BRED or 634-MAMA today lor your free pleasure. 
Cincinnati is the greatest city in the world. It was recently voted North America's Most Livable City by Places Rated Almanac. (Not, 
Rochester, Andy.) It boasts world class sports (Bengals, 1-8), lovely neighborhoods (Blue Ash excluded, W), and lively bars. Cincinnati. The Queen City. My city. Your city. 


Wednesday, November 9, I 994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COllEGE FOOTBAlL 



Minnesota's coach Wacker optimistic 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Another game, another heartache for Jim Wacker. And another tough Big Ten oppo­nent waiting to do it to Minnesota again. 
Not so fast, says Wacker. 
He believes the Golden Gophers again will find a way to rebound after their contra­versial loss to Illinois, their most disappointing moment ... so far. 
They might not win at No. 19 Michigan on Saturday, but they won't get blown out like they did against the Wolverines last year, Wacker said Tuesday. 
"We've got our work cut out for us, but by the same token, Wisconsin beat them in Ann Arbor and we beat Wisconsin," Wacker said. "We're playing much better football right now, and there's no reason we can't figure we can go in there and beat Michigan at Michigan." 
That's the kind of upbeat logic Wacker has used to carry his young team through this dreary season. The Gophers (3-6 over­all, 1-5 Big Ten) are last in the conference, a half-game behind Iowa. 
Their upset over the Badgers two games ago has been the lone highlight of the past two 
p 


Happy 19th 
(G® IF®rr IIi! ($($ JJ3U1lllllml®~ ~ 
Love Mom, Steve &Dad 


r:rhe IndianapolisSymphony Orchestra 
Raymond Leppard, Conductor 
Sunday, November 20, 1994 2:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
/Featuring the prerniere of 
Symphony: Winter Lightning 
composed by Jeffrey Jacob commissioned by Saint Mary's College 
Guest Artist: Jeffrey Jacob 
Pianist-in-Residence Saint Mary's College 
The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra will also perform: 
Brahms' Academic Festival Overture, Op. 80 Brahms' Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, Op. 68 
For information about tickets, please call the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 284-4626. 

months, and their slide from a 2-1 start has been a study in frustration. 
The offense was dismal two weeks in a row, scoring just 14 total points in losses at Kansas State and Indiana. The defense was the culprit the next two weeks, giving up 86 points in losses to Purdue and Northwestern. 
On Saturday, Minnesota wast­ed a 17-6 lead in the fourth quarter against Illinois, includ­ing Ty Douthard's disputed game-winning 2-yard TD run with 1:10 remaining. 
_ Douthard appeared to fumble before he crossed the goal line, and Minnesota recovered in the end zone. But one official called it a touchdown, and the Big Ten said Monday it was the right call. 
Wacker still disagrees, and talked with conference officials this week. Although they defended the call, they admit­ted other errors, including a fourth-and-1 spot that cost the Gophers a first down at the Illinois 35 with 7:38 remaining. 
"I think the kids are angry, they're mad, they're upset," Wacker said. "I've never seen more tears and more heart­break in a locker room after a game. I've been at it 35 years, and that's as tough a loss as I've ever had. 
riled with losses 
By RUSTY MILLER. hav w starters. Maybe Assodated Press that s ~ pari ofit,'' he said. --­-has-come hac COLUMBUS, Obio p}l!)rierit~ ~'7.1 Ohio State's track record 011, d half; but Co other teatns' tracks isn't good. that the early defiCit 
The Buckey(ls, 7-3 overall ch the game plan and and tied for second in the Big puts additional pressure on his Ten at 4-2, have split four road team; games and won another at a Against Washington, the neutral site. Bucke es were behind 22-0 at 
But a deeper look reveals the· before falling 25•16;. ;;•. /.~We'd love to go out there 
deeper problems: The last four At tern, they tra· times.that.OhioState has ~OM 1lptl,lrning)? away from home ....... as it Will ·•• t conversion 
this Saturday against Indiana emp 0 win 18-16. Michigan -it has been outscored 73-3 Stat{lled 7-3 at intermission in the frrst half. bef~rlth~ Buckeyes came back+ 
Without qu~stion, that is the t() wiii Z3-7. And, of course, biggest concern for Ohio State the:re 'Was the debacle at Penn coach John Cooper heading Sta:f l1~re the Nittany' LioiJS i~Jto the showdown with th~ ai the break floosiers (5-4, 2-:-4). a 63•14 viet 
Speaking at})l~ weekly .M q'ugh op.iq . confl3renc;e Tll.esday, Coop teJt; The Buck ·. •.• . . ... per discounts the theory said he couldn't understan red their last fout ? that his team isn't ready to why the Buckeyes have bee.n l1ents 97-10 in tM play. digging themselves such a opeJlfugfWo quarters: w. "You always think you're go­chasm on the road. ·While Indiana has lost three ing to play good. I've never had 


"I can't put my finger on it. ina[o~ Ohio State recovered ,ateam yet that I thought, 'Oh We're not the veteran team we {r~J;Jlth~·lashing at Penn State ~boy, this team's awful. We am•t were a year ago. In fact, w~ t!:f .·· ndle Wisconsin 2~;_3 going to play good,'" he said. 
::··=:=m~~~~:<,:~:~:'"<:'I:m!~~}. ·:· 

as~~~~~~~~~ 

Iowa anticipates staff changes 
By GREG SMITH 
Associated Press 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 

Whether Iowa State hires away one of his assistants or not to replace Jim Walden, Iowa football coach Hayden Fry indicated there could be some changes on his coaching staff next year. 
Iowa (3-5-1 overall, 1-4-1 Big Ten) did not play last Saturday and finishes the season against Northwestern (3-5-1, 2-4) this weekend and Minnesota on Nov. 19. Fry said his assistants were on the recruiting trail during the off week while he evaluated personnel. 
Players or coaches? 
"Both. At the conclusion of the season we'll sit down and we'll go one-on-one in regards to coaches' interviews, just like we have all of our players the first three days after the Minnesota game," Fry told re­porters. 
"We'll evaluate every player. 
We'll tell him his strengths, his weaknesses, what he's got to do in the off-season program. I do the same thing with my coaches," he said. 
Walden resigned last week, effective at the end of the sea­son, and Fry said he expects Iowa State athletic director Gene Smith to eventually talk to some of Fry's assistants about the job. 
A natural candidate would be Bob Elliott, the Hawkeyes' de­fensive backfield coach. Elliott, who played for Iowa, is in his eighth season on Fry's staff. He also was an assistant at Iowa State in 1981-82, when the Cyclones led the Big Eight Conference in pass defense and produced Ron Osborne and John Arnaud, who both played professionally. 
Fry was asked if Iowa State officials have made any in­quiries to Iowa officials. 
"No. But I would anticipate that they will," he said. 
Fry said he has traditionally had assistants go on and prove themselves at a higher level. They include Barry Alvarez, now the head coach at Wisconsin who took two Fry assistants, Dan McCarney and Bernie Wyatt. Others are Bill 

THE CUSHWA CENTER 
-,I 
AMERICAN CATHOLICISM
U presents 
How the Media Cover Catholicism: Reflections ofaPerpetrator 
Peter Steinfels 
Welch Visiting Professor of American Studies Religion Writer, New York Times 
Thursday, November 10 
4:15p.m. 

Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Saturday. 
ked which Ohio State team 
u1d show up to play Indiana, 
___ per said, "I would hope it's the team that playedlast week. But I can't guarantee you that." 
Cooper is as stumped as any­one why the Buckeyes have had their problems on the road. 
··"' ,[ld score on oqr first drive ~ainst everybody ~e. play,'' ooper said. · · . · ''We're doing the same things 
we•ve been doing since I've coached here: working out here Friday, leaving on Friday night, eating the same pregame meal, having snacks, 
Cgoing through the same rou­e." 
Snyder, now head coach at Kansas State; Kirk Ferentz, who's with the Cleveland Browns; Carl Jackson, who is with the San Francisco 49ers; and Carl Hargrave, now with the Minnesota Vikings. 
''I'm really proud of the record my previous coaches have," Fry said. 
"We would certainly have one, if not two, in the mesh" for the Iowa State job, he said. 
As he evaluates his own coaches, Fry says he considers all areas, including recruiting. 
"I am very meticulous in re­garding the success rate of who recruited whom and if he pro­duced, et cetera, and who hasn't. I even go as far as to who gets people to come and visit on an official visit, because some guys can't even get some­body to visit. Now that's bad," Fry said. 
He declined to say which of his assistants have been suc­cessful and which ones haven't. 
"Just like always. I've got some that have been very, very successful, some that are pretty good and some that aren't," Fry said. "It's my job as the head coach to get a solution, to correct a problem." 
j 
r 
I page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
I I 
I •NFL 
I 
I Beebe another concussion victim
I 
l 
~ By JIMMY GOLEN 
I 
Associated Press 
I ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 
l 
Don Beebe doesn't rememberI much about his fifth career concussion, the latest ache in a medical history that also in­cludes three pulled hamstrings, a broken collar bone, a sprained neck and a metal rod in his leg. But the BuiTalo Bills wide re­ceiver knows this: He will put it out of his mind and gladly ex­pose his body to danger, if he must, in order to catch a pass. He has to, for this is the busi­ness that he has chosen. "If I worried about coming across the middle, I would have worried about it after my rook­ie year" when he sprained his neck, Beebe said. "It doesn't bother me. On Monday night, if the same situation comes up, ('II do the same thing." The Bills were trailing the Jets 22-17 in the game's final minute on Sunday when the pass went to Beebe on third­and-?. Linebacker Bobby Houston arrived just after the ball did, driving his helmet into Beebe's. . Beebe was out before he hit the ground. He remained on the turf for several minutes, motionless, with one arm point­ed into the air. "It scares you, when you see a .guy lying there with his arm sticking up," Bills tight end Pete Metzelaars said. "You just thank God he's all right. But you don't think, 'Boy, if I go over the middle, I might get hit.' "I guess it's the old denial thing. You say, 'That will never happen to me.' Or if it has hap­pened, you say, 'That will never happen again.' But if you sit around and think about all those things, you'll never be a player." Head trauma has been a com­mon topic around the NFL since Chicago fullback Merril Hoge retired earlier this year, citing repeated concussions. Jets wide receiver AI Toon retired a sea­son ago after his ninth concus­sion. 
Beebe was asked if this injury made him think about his fu­ture. "Retiring? Is that your question?" he said. 
"The family and my wife are encouraging it, but f'm not go­ing to do it," he said. "I enjoy the game, and (I will continue) as long as I feel fine and have no ill effects from the concus­sion. 
"I just hope I don:t take a big hit in the next two, three weeks, because that's when you start getting the danger. But if I stay away from a big hit the rest of the season, I should be fine.'' 
Beebe said the scariest part of the incident was watching the tape of himself walking off the field, and not remembering any of it. 
"I had no recollection of any of the game, coming off the field, going to the locker room, lying there for a while," he said. "Then things started to come slowly back.... I remem­bered that I had scored in the game, and I remembered that we had lost. 
"But that play never came back," he said, "and it proba­bly never will." 
On Monday, he said he was still a little dizzy. 
"What is today, September?" he joked. "It feels like a hot, hazy day." 
The team's doctors looked at him once and plan to do so again later in the week before clearing him to play. The Bills play Pittsburgh on Monday night, so they have an extra day ofT before practice resumes on Thursday. 
Beebe's air-filled helmet, the one he has used since coming into the NFL in 1989, cracked when his head hit the ground. On Monday, the equipment manager fitted him for a new one. 


But Beebe was concerned about the fit, the look and the safety of his new lid, trying on the helmets of teammates Andre Reed and Carwell Gardner before he was con­vinced that his was OK. 
Bills coach Marv Levy said he will treat this injury like all oth­ers: Beebe will play if the doc­tors say he can. Beebe says he feels fine; his wife, Diana, is less sure. 
"It's tough. I try to put myself in her position, and I wouldn't want her to do it," he said. "I just tell her, 'Honey, I ain't go­
ing to do anything stupid.' 
• liAr~ 'lri~fs 
Nqtfe Dame Tae 
K\Vo 
Clu~~ J.he~l~b.__ .wouldli}(~tPcqng~~~~1~t~Bithe mem~~l'$\ who' participate th(r Association Tourname~t: Kei~uke Kotani, Laura Considine, Chris Folk, RoJ:> O'Neill. Brian Froelke, Mike Nahas. David Rojas, Marianna Safronova, Todd Schorer. Stacy Stough,· Chris Strother, and Doug Victor. Thanks also to ev~rybne wlm came out to SJ.l • port th~ competitors. · 
:.)'{ 
Turkey Shoot-Team target shooting contest on Monday, November 14 and Tuesday the 15th from 4:00-6:00 pm. Co­Ree teams of two men and two women. Register in advance at 
Re¢Sports:.... Deadlin.~;inlJI,~ NoVeJl:lber 10. Members "9,. ROTC riOe squad not. eligible: Foririfocall1·6100. 
'W'"·' 

Wednesday, November 9, 1994 
• Golf 


Associated Press 

Jose-Maria Olazabal's 7 4 lands him just four shots short of the lead in the PGA Grand Slam of Golf. 


Norman and Price lead PGA Grand Slam 
ByGORDONSAKAMOTO 
Associated Press 

POIPU, Hawaii 
Nick Price and Greg Norman shot 2-under par 70s over a windy course on the island of Kauai Tuesday to share the first-round lead in the 36-hole PGA Grand Slam of Golf. 
The match, which features winners of the four majors ­Masters, PGA and the U.S. and British Opens -was close all the way, with only Price and Norman trading the lead over the 18 holes. 
Ernie Els finished at 72 on the Poipu Bay Resort Golf 
Course and Jose Maria Olazabal was at 74. The winner of the $1 million event receives $400,000. 
Price of Zimbabwe won the PGA and British Open, Els of South Africa captured the U.S. Open and Olazabal of Spain took the Masters. 
With only three winners for the four majors, Norman joined the field. The Australian finished second on the money list ($1.3 million) and won this year's Vardon Trophy. 
He edged American Tom Watson by finishing fourth the PGA. It marked the first time an American has failed to make the tournament. 
WHAT 'LS AN U:R.nAN PLUNU.t:? 
* 
4 8 h.ou.r experience in an inner city of you.r choice 

* 
Du.rinq the wuh, of January 3 -10th (elates are chosen by the host site) 

* 
See sou.p. ft.Uch.ens, sheLters, weLfare a.qencies, etc. 

* 
Talk to homeless people 


* rtee.t others who are tryin9 to maft.e. life better for people of poverty 

~istrati.ons availab[e. at the Center for Socia.£, Concerns and Campus tl.ini-stry -UND Campus 1"l.inistry, Justice lliucati.on Office and tt.mticmtura£, Offices-Stt.C 'T~ Office of HCC 

Wednesday, November 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NFL 
Bengal's Klingler out again 
By JOE KAY him is not a threat to him," energized the team and fans. Associated Press agent Leigh Steinberg said The Bengals couldn't very well Tuesday. "His sense is that ulti­go back to Klingler right now 
CINCINNATI mately the Cincinnati Bengals even if they wanted to. 
Now that Jeff Blake has will be his team to lead. It's just Fans lost interest and players caught the Cincinnati Bel}gals' that he's injured." became dispirited as the imagination, what happens to Klingler stopped talking to the Bengals struggled to 0-7 for the David Klingler? media when Blake was named second straight season behind Klingler, the sixth player cho­the starter a week ago. Bengals Klingler. Blake, a third-string sen in the 1992 draft, has at players were off Monday and quarterback claimed on least temporarily lost the start­Tuesday, and Klingler didn't waivers from the New York ing quarterback job to Blake, return a telephone message left Jets, got everybody intriguedthe 166th player taken in the at his home. again by leading the Bengals to same draft. Although some fans and news­the verge of an improbable up­
Even though Klingler would paper columnists have written set over Dallas on Oct. 30. like to try to play with a sore off Klingler, he remains in good Last Sunday in Seattle, Blake knee, coach Dave Shula has standing with his most impor­threw for 387 yards -the most 
announced Blake as the starter tant booster. General manager by a Cincinnati quarterback in again Sunday against Houston. Mike Brown, who decided to four years -and set up a 20­It will be the third consecutive draft Klingler in '92, has 17 overtime victory that had start for Blake, who led the emphasized all season that he fans practically giddy. Bengals to their first win last still believes in him. Blake drew a standing-room Sunday in Seattle. Brown didn't return a tele­crowd when he showed up for a 
And there's no indication phone message Tuesday. He sports talk show broadcast when Klingler might get his job reiterated to The Cincinnati from a restaurant Monday back. Shula plans to decide his Enquirer that there has been night. Players are talking about starter on a week to week ba­no talk of backing away from a second-half winning streak 
sis, taking into account how Klingler, who makes $1.7 mil­with Blake at quarterback. well the team does with Blake lion this year and has a year Imagine the reaction if at quarterback. left on his contract. Klingler returns as the starter 
Is it possible that the Bengals, "Don't count him out," Brown now. Fans would boo. Players who thought they were set at said. "I still think he can be a would grumble. And every in­quarterback when they drafted fine NFL quarterback. I don't completion by Klingler would Klingler, are having second have a crystal ball, but sudden­bring chants for Blake. thoughts? Klingler's agent ly we feel our quarterback situ­The Bengals play their next doesn't think so. ation with Blake and Klingler is two games at home, against
"To be direct, David's under­a plus and we haven't been Houston and Indianapolis. The standing is he's still the quar­able to say that for awhile." next road game -and oppor­terback of the Cincinnati Yes, but they now have a tunity to slip Klingler back into 
Bengals and the development of dilemma as well. Blake's two the lineup without a home-field the other quarterbacks around sensational performances have backlash -is Nov. 27. 


IMAGINE YOUR IDEA ON THE BACKS OF 40,000 IRISH FANS 
PLUS FREE BOOKS FOR THE SPRING 
DESIGN THE SHIRT '95 
ENTER YOUR CHOICE OF ORIGINAL ARTWORK TO 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 315 LaFORTUNE. 
ENTRIES MUST NOT EXCEED 12" X 15" 
LATEST CONSIDERATION DATE IS NOV. 21, 1994 
SKETCH MUST INCORPORATE A THEME 
EXAMPLES DISPLAYED IN THE EAST HALLWAY OF THE HUDDLE INCLUDE: 
-1990  NOTRE DAME LANDMARKS  
-1991  150YEARSOFEXCELLENCE  
-1992  THE TRADITION CONTINUES  

AND THE TWO MOST POPULAR EVER -1993 ONWARD TO VICTORY -1994 WAKEUPTHEECHOES 
-SPRING SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS PAID BY ND BOOKSTORE -ANY SELECTED ENTRY BECOMES PROPERTY OF "THE SHIRT." 
-APPLICANT MUST STATE IN WRITING THAT SUBMITTED 
ARTWORK IS THEIR OWN ORIGINAL WORK. 

Screen GelllS '94-'95 
The movies as they were meant to be: Classic films. Big screen. Bargain prices. 
Tuesday, Nov. 15, 1:30 and 7:30p.m. Cary Grant Irene Dunne 


TheAwful Truth 
One of the great screwball comedies. Grant and Dunne are a soon-to-be-divorced couple who outdo themselves trying to sabotage each other's new love interest. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium $2 adults, $1 students 
COMING ATTRACTIONS: Stanley Kubrick's PATHS OF GLORY, 
··· 

the hedged
•·we'll· 
make oul;' plans and talk about wbat. we're going to do," the coach said. 
Clearly the Giants have to do something. 
The losing-Nstrea~ is their longest.sinee':t~~O~when the clup l t 1~ a l'O'Y; 'fhe ~tr~a . . j~~~ ·· · ... shy Qf
the clu · · · ·· consecu..-, tive los . "Is ll a: r•· asked Reeves. "No,. It's our defense, our offense. qut execution and also partly Dave. Right now we'r~:~just not a very good footba}ft~:~a:m.'' The was proof 



sing 

game to 
personnel.'' 
Yet the Giants coach, who lost six in a row in 1990 as coach of the Denver Broncos, admitted the losing streak was taking ifstoll. 
''This i:";t~ugh .. business even wheh .• ,'' l!e said. 
•··•••·· But· whe-p . . . .... J?se, ·it's just 
··· miserable. We;re''ttying, play· ing hard, but we· have a long way to go and the only way you're going to get out of this is to keep fighting." Reeves is thankful the Giants came back from Dallas in rea· sonably -good physical condi· tion and hopes a few of the players who missed the game because of>injury ,...... particu· larly ~u~rd }~nee Smith (ankle; kne~lF'Cornerback Phillippi Spat~s(groin) and defensiye end Michael Straha.Il Omeef.:..,.. will be able to play against Phoenix. 
Of the three injuries sus· tained at Dallas, Reeves is most concerned about rookie kick return specialist Thomas . Lewis {knee, ankle), who was schedUled to have an MRllate Tu!lsday all~ ~puld be side· 
lined for.<a ·"r~~~·· or two· 
Also. sifetY ~arvis Williams sprained a knee and defensive end Coleman· Rudolph bas a turf toe. 

;. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 9, 1994 
•NBA 


Drafting failures lead to trades Harper hasn't met 
Associated Press Smith. "It was tough to swallow, seeing players that 

Bull's expectations 
MIAMI have been around here go," Rice said. "Even 
At the outset, the Miami Heat adopted a philos­though you know it can happen at any time in By MIKE NADEL excelled in both Chicago victo­ophy of building with youth through the draft. this sport, it's still tough." 
Associated Press ries.
The result was mediocrity. The new Heat debuted Tuesday at Golden State "Michael Jordan was the bestNow, at the start of the team's seventh season, with only five players from last season's team on CHICAGO player in the world for eight orMiami will try a different way to win. With two the active roster. 
The Man Who Would Be nine years," Harper said. ''I'mmajor trades in less than a week, the long-stag­Management acknowledged that Miami, which Michael has four baskets in 
trying to learn some of the
nate Heat acquired two established veterans and has never advanced beyond the first round of the three games. 
things he did here, but I neverrevamped their lineup. playoffs, was unlikely to get much better without Ron Harper is shooting 19 claimed to be the next MichaelThe only holdover from the end of last season is a shakeup. 
percent, has taken just six free Jordan. I've got to be me."
leading scorer Glen Rice. The other likely "We had to put our emotions aside and try to 
throws, has almost as many 
Being Ron Harper had alwaysstarters will be guards Bimbo Coles and Harold do some things to help the Miami Heat become a turnovers (eight) as points (12), been good enough. 
Miner and the two newcomers, center Kevin better team," partner Billy Cunningham said. has already been held scoreless He averaged 22.9 points andWillis and forward Billy Owens. Local media reacted to the back-to-back deals once, and has played only 73 of 
shot 45 percent in his first
Willis was acquired Monday in a trade with the with delight but surprise. One columnist won­149 possible minutes for the eight NBA seasons, making the
Atlanta Hawks. Owens was obtained last dered if aliens had taken over the bodies of 
Chicago Bulls. 

start of his Bulls career all the
Wednesday in a deal with the Golden State Cunningham and managing partner Lewis 
"You get mad and you tend to more exasperating.
Warriors. Schaffel. 
lose a little faith in yourself," ''I'm trying to learn what thisDeparting were guard Steve Smith, center Rony The two part-owners made the moves after he said. "But I know that I'm 'triangle" offense is all about,"Seikaly and forward Grant Long. The threesome their sale of an operating interest in the team to here at a new gym with new he said. "If you've got five guysplayed in a combined 1 ,098 games for Miami. businessman Whit Hudson stalled. Hudson teammates and I know things who know how to play, it's not"Sure, there's some gamble to this," coach remains uninvolved with the team but still hopes will turn around." 
that hard. But when you've got Kevin Loughery said. "We've been an organi­to complete his purchase. 
Said Chicago coach Phil so many guys learning, it's azation that has always moved slowly, and this is "We set out to make a couple of big changes," Jackson: "He'll find his way." 
tough adjustment." 

a drastic change from that." Loughery said. "I was delighted with the first The Bulls hope so. Because 
Harper has been the Bulls'
Seikaly and Long had been the only players one, and the second trade rounds out the club." Harper, signed as a free agent biggest disappointment, but not remaining from the Heat's first team in 1988. In The deals give Loughery a bigger, stronger, for $19.2 million over five the only one.
all, Miami has jettisoned four former first-round more versatile team. Willis, Owens, Rice and years to fill the shooting-guard Chicago needed fourth-quar­draft choices in the past week -Willie Burton John Salley are all capable of playing more than spot vacated before last season 
ter comebacks to beat a
and Alec Kessler (both released), Seikaly and one position. 
by Michael Jordan, already has 
Charlotte team playing without contributed a ton of bricks to 
Alonzo Mourning and a bad 
• TENNIS the new United Center . 
Philadelphia team, and lost to a Harper, who shot 31 percent 
Washington club that was 24­during the preseason, even 
58 last season.

Virginia Slims opened strong took extra shooting practice 
The Bulls, who last season before Monday's 98-83 victory 
won 55 games with CBAer Pete Associated Press Sabatini of Argentina faced McGrath dropped her service over Philadelphia. But the Myers as Jordan's stopgap fill­Jana Nejedly of Canada in an in the 1Oth game of the second fruits of his labor were rotten: in, haven't been able to replace 
PHILADELPHIA evening match. set, losing the match on the 1-for-3 from the floor, four 
free-agent defectors Horace 
Chanda Rubin overwhelmed second match-point with a points, four turnovers. 
Grant and Bill Cartwright this seventh seed Amy Frazier 6-1, On Wednesday night, Jennifer cross-court backhand drive Jackson had been eagerly an­year. Larry Krystkowiak, Corie6-1 Tuesday with sustained Capriati makes her return to over the baseline. 
ticipating the ple.asant problem Blount and Dickey Simpkinspower hitting from the baseline the tennis tour when she plays of finding enough minutes for 
aren't making anyone forget
in the first round of the Virginia sixth-seeded Anke Huber. The key to Halard's victory 
Harper, Scottie Pippen and 
Grant at power forward. AndSlims of Philadelphia. Capriati has not played compet­was the fourth game of the Toni Kukoc. He has temporar­
Will Perdue was never in
Frazier was unable to cope itive tennis since the 1993 U.S. third set, in which Harvey-Wild ily solved the problem by play­
with the speed and power of Open. double-faulted twice to fall Cartwright's league at center. 
ing Kukoc instead of Harper on
the unseeded Rubin's shots in Top seed and defending behind 1-3. Halard won on the Playing Jackson's beloved tri­
th champion Conchita Martinez of second match point when many occasions. Other times, angle offense -which helped e 43-minute match. Spain will begin defense of the Harvey-Wild overhit the base­Jackson has put Jo Jo English the Bulls win NBA titles in Frazier set up match point in title Wednesday against line. in for Harper, and English has 1991, 1992 and 1993. 
the second set by serving a dou­Nathalie Tauziat of France. ble fault. Rubin then ended the In other matches, fifth-seeded match with a swift cross-court Natalia Zvereva of Belarus passing shot ofT her two-hand­defeated Meredith McGrath 6­ed backhand. 4, 6-4; Patty Fendick beat 
Rubin next will face Erika de Marianne Werdel 6-2, 6-4; and Lone, who advanced with a 6-3, Julie Halard of France pre­6-2 win over Mercedes Paz of vailed over Linda Harvey-Wild Argentina. 6-2, 3-6, 6-3. 
Paz was a replacement for Fendick won the first set with Lori McNeil, who withdrew a passing shot to break serve. from the tournament in the Werdel fought off three match morning because of right shoul­points in a tense 10th game of der tendinitis. the second set, then yielded on 
Fourth-seeded Gabriela the fourth match point. 
free transportation and admission for all minority juniorsand seniors! 

M I N 0 R I Tv 
CAREER 
Friday

FORUM 
january27 
SPONSORED BY Andersen Consulting 
Arthl!r Ander~en
Hewitt Associates 
Leo Burnett Company, Inc. PARTIAL LIST OF EMPLOYERS 
Armour Swift · Eckrich Boston Consulting Group Capital Group Chubb Grp. of Insurance Co. Citibank Comerica Inc. Defense Intelligence Agency Ernst & Young Mgt. Consulting Fidelity Investments Florida Power & Light Goldman, Sachs & Co. Harris Bankcorp Merrill Lynch Nat'l Westminster Bancorp Inc. Northern Trust Company Northern Illinois Gas Reuters SmithKiine Beecham Swiss Bank Corporation Towers Perrin 
U.S. Navy 
PLUS MANY MORE!! 

/;) ~ i C, a f2 {J..
(;--' 7 The Chicago Marriott Dovmtovm 
TO REGISTER and be eligible for INTERVIEWS sena or fax your resume to 
Crimson & Brovm Associates, Inc. 1770 Massachusetts Ave., Suite 332 Cambridge, MA 02140 TEL 617.868.0181-FAX617.868.0187 

REGISTRATION DEADLINE EXTENDED TO: November 11 Write ypur tOP, 3 industry preferences 
on the back of your resume 
Meet and Interview with leading employers! 
Deadline Extended -Register Now! 
At Last, Term Life at Rates You Can Live With. 
Annual Premiums 
When it comes to protecting the 
for $250,000 Coverage* financial security of your family or 
Age Male Female 
business, term life insurance is one of the best investments you can make. Take a 
25 $198 $160 moment to compare these rates with what 
35 $198 $160 you are paying now. If your current rates are 
45 $245 $210 too high, give us a call. Because we represent 
55 $475 $325 several national insurance companies, we are 
65 $1463 $773 
confident we can find the best life insurance 
*Non-tobacco preferred rates
value for you. 
Smoker rates available upon request. 

How Much Coverage Do You Need? Perhaps y.ou feel you need more life insurance, but you are unsure as to how much coverage you should have. Call the Healy Company. We'll help you calcu­late the proper amount of coverage required to meet the needs of your family or business. We'll also help you structure your life insurance program to avoid pay­ing unnecessary taxes on the proceeds. 
Call For Equally Attractive Rates on Any Other Amount of Desired Coverage. 

Cit\ THE 2~~~~~s~~~~7~ANY 
~ South Bend, IN 46634 
219-289-4061


Richard Preuu, Cl.U, ChFC Randy R.aclll, CLU, ChFC 
Classof'BO, '81 Clauof'8l 

----------------·----------------~--------~-----------------------, 
Wednesday, November 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NBA 





With new contract extension, Starks leads Knicks 
Associated Press 
John Starks, who signed a $13 million contract extension earli­er in the day, scored 15 of his 23 points in the decisive Jhird quarter Tuesday night and led the New York Knicks to a 117­113 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers. 
New York, which trailed by 20 in the first half, entered the fi­nal period with a three-point lead. The Knicks built it to 10, but the Lakers came back to cut it to 112-109 with 51 seconds left on a pair of free throws by Vlade Divac. 
Patrick Ewing, who led New York with 24 points and seven blocks, hit two foul shots with 13 seconds left to preserve the victory. Hubert Davis added 15 points. 
The Knicks shot 83 percent in the third period to take a 93-90 lead into the final quarter. The cold-shooting Lakers scored only eight points in the first nine minutes of the fourth. 
Nick Van Exel, who scored a career-high 35 points in the Lakers' season opener, had 26. George Lynch had 20 points, and Cedric Ceballos added 22 with 14 rebounds. 
After slogging through the first half. the third quarter was all New York. Starks, who signed a three-year extension that will keep him in a Knicks uniform through the 1999-2000 season, hit three 3-pointers in the period. 
Pistons 126, T'Wolves 112 
"They weren't pressuring me 
outside, so I didn't need to take 
it in," said Dumars, who was 1­
for-8 on 3-pointers in Detroit's 
first two games. "The first cou­
ple of games I was looking for 
the 3-point line. Now I have a 
good feel for where it is." 
Dumars' only 2-point attempts 
was a miss on his first shot of 
the game. Fouls nullified the his 
other 2-point attempts. 
The Thomas J. White Center on Law &Government and The Robert &Marion Short Chair 

present: 
Professor Michael Perry Howard J. Trienens Chair in Law 
The Morality of Homosexual Conduct: A Response to John Finnis 
Thursday, November lOth 
4:00p.m. in the Law School Courtroom 
"I didn't even know that I took a 2~point shot," Dumars said. 
Detroit coach Don Chaney tried his best to get Dumars the record, changing his normal substitution pattern to get his star player additional playing time and shots. 
"I wanted him to break the record," said Chaney. 
"It was obvious to everyone that I wanted to get that 11th one," said Dumars. "Minnesota knew it, too. That is why I knew it was going to be hard to get." 
As a team, the Pistons shot 67 percent, led by Hill's 10-for-11. 
"Dumars hitting like that opens up a lot for the rest of their team," said Minnesota coach Bill Blair. "We should have made Joe do something else." 
Detroit won its first home game since March 23, breaking a seven-game home losing streak. Minnesota lost its third straight game. 
Nuggets 115, Mavs. 107 
Dikembe Mutombo had a triple-double and Rodney Rogers scored 28 points, lead­ing the Denver Nuggets past the Dallas Mavericks 115-107 Tuesday night. 
The Nuggets outscored the Mavs 31-18 at the start of the fourth quarter to turn a tie game into a 111-98 advantage. Jim Jackson led a late charge by Dallas, scoring seven straight points to help the Mavericks draw to 111-107 with 40 seconds left. 
But Robert Pack then con­verted four free throws over a 5-second span to wrap up the scoring. 
Mutombo dominated inside with 12 points, 14 rebounds and 11 blocked shots. 
Jackson matched his career­
high with 37 points and Jamal 
Mashburn added 21 for the 
Mavericks, who were attempt­
ing to get off to a 2-0 start for 
the first time in club history. 
Associated 

With a record breaking 10 three-pointers, Joe Dumars led the Pistons to an easy victory over the 
Timberwolves. 
Reggie Williams had 17 points and Bryant Stith 16 for the Nuggets. 
Rookie Jalen Rose, who fin­ished with 14 points, scored on consecutive layups while the Nuggets were opening the fourth quarter with seven unanswered points. 
Jackson's dunk with :01 left in the third quarter pulled Dallas into an 80-80 tie entering the fourth. 
Denver had a 56-55 halftime advantage behind Rogers' 17 points. Mashburn was limited by three fouls and Dallas trailed by as many as 13 before rally­ing behind Jackson's 19 first­half points. 
Rockets 100, Cavaliers 98 
A night that Hakeem Olajuwon would have remem­bered for a long time became even more memorable at the end. 
"That made it special," Olajuwon said after he sank the winning shot with 3.1 seconds left Tuesday night, sending the Houston Rockets to a 100-98 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
Earlier in the game, Olajuwon became the leading scorer in Rockets history, surpassing Calvin Murphy when he sank a free throw with 10:32 left in the third quarter. It gave him 
Ever thought about a career in publishing? 

Develop skills and career opportunities in book and magazine publisbing from insiders at 
Rolling Stoae, Texas Monthly, The New Yorker, 
Simon & Schuster, Random House and others. 
For a free brochure contact: 

School of Continuing Studies Rice University 6100 Main Street -MS550 Houston, Texas 77005-1892 Phone: (713) 527-4803 Fax: (713) 285-5213 E-mail: scs@rice.edu 



The Rice University Publishing Program July 16-August 11, 1995 
William Marsh Riu Uni1'ersity i3 an EOIAA institution 
17,950 career points. 
The sellout crowd of 20,562, watching the first regular-sea­son game at new Gund Arena, gave him a standing ovation. 
"To pass somebody like Calvin Murphy, a Hall of Farner, is an accomplishment -and also to play with one team that long," Olajuwon said. "It's a great accomplishment. I'd like to get more so the next guy who comes around will have to work for it." 
Olajuwon scored 21 points with 12 rebounds seven blocks and six assists helping the Rockets win their third straight game. 
And he saved the best for last. Olajuwon took a pass from Sam Cassell on the left baseline, spun to his right and shot over Williams for the winning points. 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 9, 1994 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL • COU..EGE BASKETBAll 
Paterno optimistic about Bowl game 
Missouri violations 
By MICHAEL A. GIARRUSSO Hose Bowl berth with a win Several teams are in position 
under investigation
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Joe Paterno won't second­guess Penn State's decision to join the Big Ten. even if it costs the Nittany Lions a shot at the national championship. 
The No. 2 Nittany Lions (8-0) could go 12-0 and still have trouble convincing pollsters they deserve a national title be­cause none of their regular­season opponents is currently in the top 15. 
As the Big Ten champion, Penn State would go to the Rose Bowl against the Pac-1 0 win­ner, which will have at least two losses. No Rose Bowl win­ner has been ranked No. 1 by The Associated Press since Southern Cal in 1972, and no Big Ten team has won the AP title since Ohio State in 1968. 
"I wouldn't say getting pi­geonholed into the Rose Bowl is the worst thing that could hap­pen to you," Paterno said Tuesday. ''I'd like to be around some of those pigeons." 
Penn State would clinch a 
Saturday at Illinois (6-3), mak­ing Paterno the fourth coach to take a.team to the four tradi­
tional major bowl games ­ the  
Rose,  Cotton,  Orange  and  
Sugar.  

Paterno also has a chance to coach his fifth undefeated and untied team. Three of those teams did not win national ti­tles. 
"We have not really talked to the team about bowls or polls," Paterno said. "We'd like to take each game as it comes and we're playing a tough Illinois team this week." 
As an independent in 1986 and 1982, Penn State was able to play the No. 1 team in a bowl game and win the title. This year, the team's second season in the conference, Penn State won't have that mobility. 
"I don't think you ever get anything for nothing in life," Paterno said. "When we moved into the Big Ten conference, we were aware that there were a Jot of positives and there might be a negative included, which is true with every conference in the country." 
to beat Penn State for the title. No. 1 Nebraska has no remain­ing ranked opponents and ap­pears headed to an Orange Bowl matchup with No. 5 Miami. No. 6 Alabama would also be in the national title hunt if the Crimson Tide beats No. 3 Auburn, No. 4 Florida and wins the Sugar Bowl, probably against No. 7 Florida State. 
Nebraska is locked into the 
Orange  Bowl  as  Big Eight  
champion,  and  the  
Southeastern  Conference  

champ must go to the Sugar Bowl. 
"There will be some other people -such as Alabama maybe -that will be unde­feated, and I'm sure they're not sorry they're in the Southeastern Conference even though they might have some of the same problems we have," Paterno said. 
Four injured defensive players will miss the Illinois game, Paterno said. Tackles Eric Clair and Vin Stewart have bad feet, while safety Clint Holes and cornerback Mark Tate have sprained knees. 

Coach worried about Penn St. 
Associated Press ries, will be out three to four weeks with a bro­ken hand. The loss of Holcombe, a true fresh­CHAMPAIGN, Ill. man, puts a strain on an Illini rushing attack 
Coach Lou Tepper had enough to worry about that ranks last in the Big Ten. with his Illinois team playing No. 2 Penn State, a "If we can run. that will be the real test of our team that has manhandled Big Ten powers injuries on offense. If we can run the ball with Michigan and Ohio State already this season. any effectiveness, it will mean a lot to our pass­
Now, Tepper has to face the unbeaten Nittany ing game," said Tepper. Lions here on Saturday with four of his key play­The Illinois defense, which ranks second in the ers ailing. nation in scoring defense, yielding 11.3 points 
"We are banged up as much as we have been per game, faces a Penn State offense that ranks at any point," Tepper said during his weekly first in the nation in total offense -533.5 yards press conference Tuesday. per game -and second in scoring offense ­
Illinois (6-3 overall, 4-2 Big Ten) will be with­48.3 points per game. out the services of its leading rusher, Robert "Penn State has the most explosive offense I've Holcombe. seen since I faced some of the great Nebraska 
Four offensive linemen, three of them starters, teams while I was at Colorado," said Tepper, a are questionable for the Illini's home finale former Buffaloes assistant. against Penn State (8-0, 5-0). For the Illini to come away with a win to 
"It is possible that all three could be ready or strengthen their bid for a major bowl and delay that all three won't be," said Tepper. Penn State's Rose Bowl party by a week, Tepper 
The ailing lineman are starting right guard said the Illini's special teams play must match or Jonathan Kerr (ankle), reserve tackle Charles better Penn State. Edwards (ankle) and starting tackles Ken "We have a lot of respect for their special Blackman (ankle) and Mike Suarez (ankle). teams and we need at least an even tradeoff in 
Holcombe, who has rushed for 4 7 4 on 113 car-special teams yardage," Tepper said. 
SOPHOMORES!!! Get Involved: 
Sign up to be a member of the Sophomore Committee for this year's JPW!!! Sign up at LaFortune Info desk or call Regis at x2695. 
Deadline Fri., Nov. 11 
THIS SATURDAY NIGHT! NOTRE DAME MEN'S SOCCER 
vs. CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE 
7:30 SATURDAY NIGHT! 
Alumni Field -behind the Joyce Center 
... 
Perles 
continued from page 20 
was passed over in the 1992 NFL draft. 
Still, the claims are being in­vestigated. The university hired independent investigators from the Collegiate Sports Law Group to assure an unbiased probe of the football program . 
"It's hard to find loyalty nowadays," Perles said, looking over at the man who fired him. "It's like a precious gem. You don't find many of them." 
In a memo leaked last March, McPherson said he expected an "outstanding" season. Tuesday he was asked what exactly "outstanding" meant. 
"I just felt I would know it when I saw it," McPherson 
said. "I have enormous respect for George and I'm doing this with a lot of thought. When I make up a decision, I like to act quickly." 
Perles wouldn't discuss what the future might hold for him. He has made it clear in recent interviews that he would like to be athletic director, should Merrily Dean-Baker ever step down. 
Associated Press 

COLUMBIA. Mo. 
The University of Missouri has begun an investigation into possible NCAA violations involving former basketball player Jevon Crudup, school officials said. 
The Atlanta Journal and Constitution reported Sunday that wire transfer records ob­tained by the Florida state at­torney's office and campus po­lice linked agents to at least six college athletes, including Crudup. 
The information was found as part of an ongoing investigation at Florida State. where 11 ath­letes were taken on shopping sprees and given cash as en­ticements to sign with agents before their eligibility expired. 
The newspaper said Crudup received cash and other incen­tives from prospective agents before and during the 1993-94 season. Such benefits violate NCAA rules. 
Missouri athletic director Joe Castiglione said Tuesday morn­ing he learned of the newspa­per article Monday. He then contacted MU chancellor Charles Kiesler, faculty repre­sentative Carl Settergren and basketball coach Norm Stewart. 
Nate Cebrun, who recruits 
college athletes for agents, said he organized trips to Las Vegas for Crudup and former University of Missouri-Kansas City player Tony Dumas before their senior seasons. He also claimed that Crudup's mother, Mary, traveled to Las Vegas during the past basketball sea­son, courtesy of Las Vegas­based agent Paul Bey. 
Crudup eventually signed with Los Angeles-based agent Michael Harrison, whom Cebrun said sent Crudup money during the season. 
Crudup is in Kansas City after being released by the Detroit Pistons, who picked him late in the second round of the NBA draft in June. The family was referring all calls to attorneys. 
School officials have notified the NCAA and Big Eight that the university is investigating, Castiglione said. Missouri would face NCAA penalties only if coaches knew that viola­tions were taking place. 
"We have no indication what­soever" that Missouri coaches knew, Castiglione told the Columbia Daily Tribune. 
Castiglione said the school's investigation would focus on trying to determine the validity of the report. Most of the arti­cle quotes Cebrun. "You've got to consider the source," Castiglione said. 

Subway Feet. 
Irish Feet. 



Don't miss the Irish soccer teams in
Try SUBWAY's new A.1. Steak &Cheese 
six-inch·sub for just $1.99 with the 
action this weekend as the women play 
WINNER ADVANCES TO ~
purchase of amedium soft drink. 
host to the NCAA Tournament and the 
For alimited time only. 
men play host to the NCAA play-in. 
• THE NCAA TOURNAMENT! ~ 
------~~------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------------------~~--­
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
CALVIN AND HORRF.'I 
Wr..s R.EAOING f®IJ\ 1-\0W <:..OJ~\LESS SP£<:.\ES AAS Bt.I~E. PIJSI-\Stl Tav.J~RD EXTINUIO~ B'i 1'<\f>.~S DESTR\JC\ION OF FORESTS. 
DILBERT 
AND IF I PILE ENOUGH BINDERS ON MY CHAIR l'LL HAVE. A WINDOW 

1) 
VIEW.' 
CROSSWORD 
Note: The circled letters. reading in order from top to bot· 1 tom. will reveal the makeup of the four unclued answers. 
ACROSS 26 Pixie 29 See instructions 
1 Under the 33 Listens to 
weather 34 Lunchtime
5 Dog-tired handful10 With 19-Across, 
35--v. Wade

a pillar of the Bible 36 Pilots' "due 
14 "Damn 
points": Abbr. Yankees" role 37 Khartoum's 15 Weeper 
land 1&Woodwind 38 Lowly worker 
17 Sci. course 39 Designer Norman­
18 Tonkin Delta Geddes
city 40 Clothed
19 See 1 0-Across 41 Dynamite
20 See instructions 42 See instructions 
22 Aristotle's campus 45 Twits 24 Dealer's car 4&Bowery-­25 Dog's bane 47 Sacred 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
AMASIE I GHT BABS LASH TROTH AD IN BLEAKHOUS~ ZONE ~G NAN T.C H A R G E GINS GLEANER 
DAVITS BRIAR 
ARIES.BLEND ~~~ 
H E A R T B R E A K H 0 U S E 
S'AT., ••ouTER 
STEWS ANTHEM 
ALPACAS ECCL 


WEIGHT MACHISMO 
FAKE HOUSEOFWAX 
USES EATENITAKE 
L E S T S T I L T S T E N 
48Moola 51 See instructions 55 "Deutschland 
-alles" 56 Doughnut, e.g. 58 Oratorio solo 59 Martin 
nickname &o Separate &1 Miss 
Durbeyfield 62 British carbine &3 Kathie Lee's 
co-host 64 Blue-pencil 
DOWN 1 Mine waste 20ne of the Hebrides 3 Auel subject 4Summer serenaders 5 Plan 6 Madrid museum 7 Wilhelm's one 8 Art style prefix 9 National debt 28 Domain figure 29 Silver Star, e.g. 10 Lite 
30 Expanses11 Award since 
31 Wild West 1956 justice12 Protein-rich 32 Parking lot edible mementos13 Look to be 34 Maui dances 21 Shea squad 37 Curved sword 23 Urge 38 sandbox friend25 Capacitor unit __ Labs26 Yemen of old 41 

27 Mr. Benchley 43 Fairy king 
• All these drinks contain I he same amount of alcohol 
-......... 

One 1.5 ounce One Sounce One 9 ounce One 12 ounce shot of liquor glass of wine wine cooler beer (100 proof) 
(sourr:e: National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism) 

FOR WOMEN ONLY 
J..uw..r:l.k Alcohol~ Duidlha 
ZER® 
2ERO­

e)Hti 'oNe. 
TWi nro-
SCOTT ADAMS 
WOW' I'VE NEVER SE.EN SO 

1----~ MUCH INTE.REST IN OUf\ BUSI­NESS PLAN I 
) 

44Jamaican 50 Artist Magritte export 51 Rocky height 45 Banquet 52 Angry recitations 
53 Pending, as a 47 Muslim nymph legal decree 48 Toggery 54 Bridge seat 49 Sad news item 57 Unlock, in verse 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
REMEMBER: 

Zero Alcohol Especially If you're under 
21,dri~g.che~~ d~n~n~~~~~ m certain medications. 
One drink per hour sets the pace tor moderate drinking. 
No more than two drinks • Some as long island iCed teas. JUmoo mar· per day, and never daly. garitas and martinis. contain more than 1.5 oz. of liquor. 
• RJpht t.tore and lilrlnp • MJman'5 m.nstru8l eye~~, the ltomrone IU:DJDDn .,.,. • Count your drinks. 
m... diJwn the twlr's Oldddon pmcess, resulting In • tHHid to ~ one's r1r1nlcs out owra ~rperiod of lime, such as one drink per 1 r12 horn. 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"You're up, Red." 
FOR MEN ONLY 
a.--RIIIIAicahDI ~~ 
ZER® 
e)N~ 

ZERO -Zero Alcohol 
Espacially If you're under 21, driving or chemically dependent ar an :c:.nain rnediadiolas, 
One-One drink per hour sets 1he ~lor~ drtnklng. 
THReeThree-No more than three drinks.iii per day, and never dalty. 
For more In/ormation, CXJntact the Office of Alcohol and Drug EO.ICJltion at 631-7970. 
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, November 9, 1994 
• fOOTBALL 
Miller dismissed from University 
Injured Berry may miss FSU game 
By TIM SHERMAN "It's a university matter," Notre Assistant Sports Editor Dame Sports Information Director John Heisler said. "That is all I can tell you." 
The expected become reality. The rumored, fact. 
But the Miller bombshell was not all "Michael Miller is no longer a student that Holtz had to say in terms of bad at the University of Notre Dame," Irish 
news for the Irish. head coach Lou Holtz matter-of-factly "Bertrand Berry hurt his ankle last announced yesterday at his weekly Thursday," Holtz informed. "I'd say he press conference. is very, very doubtful (for Saturday's game against Florida State)." The much-maligned Miller has had "With the loss of Berry, we will possi­more than his share of troubles during bly play Jeremy Nau at the rush end. his career. We'll move LeShane Saddler up to out­In fact, Miller left the school for 
side linebacker." Houston during his freshman year only Still, the confidence that Holtz usually to return his sophomore year. gains toward the end of the week was 
This past spring, controversy once evident yesterday. 
again swirled around the 5-foot-7, 160-"A lot of people think we don't have a pound flanker. He and teammate chance," Holtz noted. "I think we do. Tracy Graham were linked to campus "Obviously we don't have as good of a 
thefts. Neither participated in spring chance as Florida State has but we're 
practices but after charges were not the same football team we were dropped this summer, both rejoined the three weeks ago. I do expect our foot­squad. ball team to play awfully well down 
Following the loss to Brigham Young, there." Miller found himself in more troubling This will be a little more likely if the circumstances. returning Ray Zellars can return to the Sources close to the team identified bruising form he showed early on this 
him as one of the possible "cancers" season. that Holtz reportedly had addressed at "Bay Zellars is still not full speed," a team meeting. Serious doubts about said Holtz. "I think he will be close to 
his future with the team were raised. full speed by the time we get to gameThe manner and timing of the dis­time." 
missal is somewhat mysterious Just in In addition, Holtz expects to be able recent weeks, Holtz had gone out of his to use Lee Becton, albeit a hobbled way to let it be known that Miller was Becton. still part of the team and the only thing "He is nowhere near the Lee Becton keeping him off the field was an injury.. we have come to expect."
All that ended yesterday. Holtz said minor injuries to Ron But as has been the case with Miller's Powlus, Dusty Ziegler, and Bobby affairs in the past, the reasoning behind Taylor are not serious problems . the decision was not elaborated on. 
Michigan State coach fired 
By HARRY ATKINS proof of that." season before defeating Indiana Associated Press Perles agreed he will always and Northwestern. be "a son of Michigan State," "I already met with the EAST LANSING, Mich. but was clearly upset at his dis­team," Perles said. "I said, 'If George Perles, wiping away missal. you want do something real tears, began a long good-bye "Is this in the best interest of good, get ready to beat 
Tuesday after being fired as Michigan State? There's two Purdue."' football coach at Michigan State sides to that," Perles said. "I Perles has always bragged University. have a lot of energy left and about the fact that he has run a 
University president Peter would still like to coach. But, clean program in his 12 sea· McPherson, a long-time critic, I'm not being given that sons as coach. Yet he has been said Perles would be allowed to chance. I don't want to create embroiled in controversy in re· finish out the season. The any controversy. So I'm going cent weeks. Roosevelt Wagner,Spartans (4-5) have two games out as a good guy." a former player, made allega­remaining, against Purdue on During his tenure, the tions of NCAA rules violations. 
Saturday and at Penn State on Spartans have won Big Ten
a Nov. 26. championship and tied for an­Wagner claimed some 
Perles, 59, who has three other. They have played in Spartan football players re­years remaining on his con­seven bowl games. Michigan ceived cash payments and had tract, was asked to resign. State was almost heaven after grades fixed to meet eligibility Because he refused, it will cost his 1987 team won the Rose requirements.the university about $1.3 mil­Bowl to finish 9-2-1. Perles has denied any wrong­lion to buy out his remaining Things haven't been the same doing. years. since. Wagner's -credibility was 
''I'm confident we can come to Heading into Saturday's game called into question when The an agreement," McPherson told against Purdue, Perles has Detroit News quoted him as a crowded news conference at compiled a record of 72-61-4. saying he had once stalked and the Duffy Daugherty football But the Spartans finished 3-8, planned to kill Perles when he 
building. "George will be loyal. 5-6 and 6-6 the past three sea­The fact that he's here today is sons. They started off 2-5 this see PERLES I page 18 



of note...
NBA BASKETBALL 
The Irish men's soccer team will Last night, Hakeem Olajuwon became the face Central Connecticut this 
Rocket's all-time leading scorer, and beat the Cavaliers with a last second shot. 
Saturday at 7:30 at Alumni Field for a NCAA berth. 
See Page 17 








