-----~----~------~------­

AIDS ignored at Notre Dame, says alumnus 

Tuesday, February 22, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 95 
THE INDEPENDENT Nf\VSPAI'ER SFRVINC NOTI\[ DAML AND SAINT MAR'(\ 

ND/SMC communities work at improving relations 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 
Graduate student John Blan­ford surprised the audience of a panel discussion last night by disclosing his infection with HIV. 
Citing the lack of awareness of AIDS and HIV at Notre Dame, Blanford made his sta­tus public at the discussion, en­titled "Wise Before Their Time: Living with AIDS," in an effort to show the University that AIDS is indeed a problem on this campus, he said. 
"There is not enough campus discussion-students are not concerned enough," he said. "People here seem to think there is no virus." 
Blanford, who received his ND undergraduate degree in 1983 and is currently the edu­cation chairperson of the AIDS Memorial-Quilt Committee, hopes that his disclosure will serve as the impetus for in­creased education of the dis­ease on campus. 
"I want it to be a push for AIDS and HIV taken seriously here ," he said, citing the status of AIDS as the biggest killer of 25-44 year old men nationally. "There is a lot of unprotected sex going on here and a severe lack of awareness of its harms." 
Although Blanford has been involved with planning the events surrounding the coming of the Memorial Quilt since the fall, it was only in the last few weeks that he decided to an­nounce his status. 
"It was too important an op­portunity to pass up," said 
.... 
Editor's note: The following is the second in a five-part series examining the issues that face Saint Mary's as it celebrates its 150th year and looks to the fu­ture. 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Saint Mary's Editor 
Many efforts have been made to improve the relations be­tween Notre Dame and Saint Mary's over the past 150 years, but administration, faculty and students agree that improve­ment in relations must come from the students themselves. 
FOCUSING 
ON THE ISSUES 
Part 2of 5 
Past attempts have included a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Rela­tions Committee and student government liaisons, but during the past two years both of these have been fallen by the wayside leaving student efforts through formal student government interaction at a stand still. 
Efforts to improve the rela­tions through this year's stu­dent governments has been hampered by poor communica­tion and lack of interest by the Saint Mary's student govern-
The Observer/Eric Ruethling Seated on the left, graduate student John Blanford revealed last night at a discussion on HIV and AIDS awareness at Notre Dame that he is HIV positive. Michael Thurnhurr, a Notre Dame graduate who tested positive for HIV while a student, also participated in the forum. 
Blanford, who tested positive during the years following his graduation from college. 
But, the decision to come for­ward did not come without lengthy consideration. 
"There was a fear of negative reactions, of professors writing me off," he said. "For so long isolation has defined HIV for me and disclosure has forced the isolation on me." 
"At least at Notre Dame, the time had come for me to break the isolation," said Blanford. 
Other panelists at the discus­sion, which was designed to in­crease AIDS and HIV aware-
For students at Bryn Mawr 
College, a women's college in 
Bryn Mawr, Pennc, co-ed 
dorms and earning their pri· 
mary .major-front aMtberinsth 
tution are a reality. ·___ ···· · · · 
But as students at women's 
colleges from across the coun­
try will attest, tensions and 
stereotypes still exist between 
students· at their colleges and 
at near-by institutions-despite 
the formal or inf()rmal ties 
between them. 

Bryn Mawr shares t;tn aca· 
demic exch~;tnge wUb-Hnver· 
ford College; Swatl-tm()re Col, 
lege and the U11iversity of 
Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) requested that a Saint Mary's student serve as a liaison at its meetings as had occurred in the past, but Saint Mary's stu­dent government did not respond, according to HPC Co­Chair Chris Canzoniero. 
"We thought it was a good thing even if it was just to let one another know what things were going on," said Can­zoniero. He said that Saint Mary's Student Body President MaryBeth Wilkinson was con­ness in the community, in­cluded 1989 Notre Dame grad­uate Michael Thurnhurr, who tested HIV positive while a stu­dent. 
Thurnhurr agreed with Blanford's assessment of the University's need of increased AIDS awareness and increased attention to the disease. 
"It is a disappointment with the administration," he said. " Their response to the epidemic has been un-Catholic, unchris­tian." 
Citing his experience as an undergraduate "isolated with the disease," Thurnhurr said 
as well as major lege. 
"More Haverford 'students maJor at_ Bryn Mawr than Bryn Mawr students major at Haver­ford," according to Director of PuhlicJnformation Deborah Thqma$. _Tile two school$ co~ operate so that programs t~:n4 departmepts at the CotJ¢ge~ 


ast spnng a an­zoniero continued to contact her to send a representative. 
Wilkinson attended one meet­ing last fall and informed Canzoniero that a Saint Mary's student would only attended HPC if they had a big an­nouncement. Wilkinson refused to comment last night. 
"We really tried to start something at the beginning of the year and I just gave up be­cause there was no interest there," said Canzoniero whore­luctantly took the Saint Mary's that by not changing its posi­tion on AIDS in six years, the University has fostered what is a "ridiculous atmosphere for a college campus." 

"The defacto use of Notre Dame as a Catholic University as an excuse not to do anything is not right," said ThurnP.urr. "It hides behind its Catholic nature." 
Students must force the Uni­versity to give the disease the awareness that it demands, Thurnhurr said. 
"They must lead in address­ing the disease-they must force the issue," he said. 
Christmas 

in April plans begin 
By MICHAEL O'HARA Assisrant News Edicor 
Christmas comes again this school year as Christmas in April activities t~;tke shape for the annual community out· reach program. 
"Christmas in April is a pro· ject working with South Bend and Notre Dame," said junior Mara McConville, past partici· pant and committee member. "It was established to help the poor in the community." 
A person can "give of his time to help the less fortunate" and "give back" to those in need, Assistant Director of University Security Phil Johnson, committee member and past participant, said. 
"It shows that I can make a difference," Johnson said. "Together, at the end of the day, all of us can .s~e the differ­"'nce." ·· __ ___ •.-...­
This year'$ Cbl'istmas in April service project is similar to last year's, according to Me· Conville. Participants will again be working in the Southeast neighborhood clean· ing up and painting. The more skilled work is done the week before, she said. However, Johnson stressed this does not ptean that stu~~.jlts will be tbe~,:e t.o just ~claan up" the neighborhood. 
"This is a one day intensive work effort where substantive 
see CHRISTMAS I page 4 

tensi()]Is to theu·,.,...~,.-rn·· 
of women to men. 

At Bryn Mawr the women are more intelligent and at Haver­ford the women are friendlier; according to the popular Dlyths. 
..Students would say that sion exists })etween "'"',...""' 
. !think 
few weeks ago. 

ND/SMC relations commis­sioner Lisa Monaco said that she faced the same problems. 
Monaco, a Notre Dame junior, said that Saint Mary's student government was contacted last year with the idea of having a non-voting Notre Dame student sit on the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. A Saint Mary's student would be a non-voting member of the Student Senate at Notre Dame. 
She and Notre Dame student government hoped that they could create an awareness of the opportunities on both cam­puses, reinstate the picnic for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women during orientation and possibly share ideas and re­search for proposals that inter­ested students on both cam­puses. 
"We need to keep pursuing and keep trying and hope that maybe the new staff will be re­sponsive," Monaco said. 
Melissa Peters, vice president for Academic Affairs-elect, hopes that the new administra­tion will be able to revive these efforts. 
Peters said that she and Stu­dent Body President-Elect Noha El-Ganzouri have discussed the possibility of. more interaction between the two student gov­ernments, but they did not real­ize that efforts were already being made by Notre Dame. 
"We really feel strongly that we should get someone to sit on each other's government," Peters said. "It's hard to say that if we do this everything will be better with relations, but if it helps even a little than that's great." 
While relations between the two student governments have been strained, the administra· tions at both institutions said 
see RElATIONS I page 6 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 22, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

The issue isn't ROTC but tolerance 
Last week, when I was•-------­
entering the dining hall, a column in Common Sense grabbed my attention. A prominent banner in the upper corner of the front page said: "ROTC to leave ND?" As I began to look into the story, I became both very interested in and disturbed by what the Eric Reuthling authors were saying. Photographer 
The authors felt that while Notre Dame has done much to improve peace and social under­standings in the past couple of years, the uni­versity's involvement with the ROTC program stands tall against their claim of being a Catholic institution. To correct this, they sug­gested that the university phase out the ROTC program here at Notre Danie, preferably within the next ten years. 
I could rant and rave about how beneficial the ROTC program is. I have several friends who are able to go to either this institution or other universities because the ROTC program is pay­ing their way through. Many of these people are unable to afford a college education on their own, and their only means of paying for it is through the scholarship given by the ROTC. 
I could talk about how it provides discipline and direction for ·some who enter into college without a solid idea of what they want to do, and stresses image and acumen as well as many other traits that are essential for the board room as well as the war room. 
However, I don't want to talk about them because I feel that those benefits are apparent to anyone who cares enough to analyze the ROTC program. No, there is a deeper problem that was contained in this letter sent by the alumni, and it is apparent in every major uni­versity all over this country. 
I'm talking about the idea of "what is appro­priate to study." The main point, despite this article's inference to the departure of the ROTC program, was that the authors felt that the uni­versity was "straying" from all that is Christian and holy, and instead it has become mired in deep conservatism. They feel that, while Notre Dame has stretched out to include more peace and social studies, they still possess a "shameful history" with ROTC being near the top of their list. 
Now, I agree that we have to deal with some administrators who are conservative in their outlook and that our country's fascination with war and violence is dangerous, but the point here I want to make is that it's nobody's right to take away classes or programs that they feel are aggressive, or "non-understanding." 
I have always been told that college is where you can explore different paths of thought, and your journeys will be tolerated, but what I see in many state schools, and possibly beginning here, is an intolerance for those who don't want to become diffused into a greater social horizon. Unless you hold the right opinions in this politi­cally correct world, you are ignored, or anathe­matized as being backward or insensitive towards other people. 
The idea of someone holding their own belie and having it respected has been destroyed by those who want to make sure that no one is ignored, and those who hold these unpopular convictions must hide in fear of being ostracized for their moderate opinions. 
Just try to find someone who will publicly agree with me in mixed company. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Cheryl Moser Liz Foran Kathie Young Corinne Doran Accent Sports Mara Davis Bryan Connolly Graphics Lab Tech Chris Weirup 
T.J. Harris Business 
Hundreds killed in Saddam Hussein's death camps, dissidents claim 
TEHRAN Iraqi exiles claim Saddam Hussein's 
Mass executions 

regime recently slaughtered hundreds of 
Iraqi exiles claim Saddam 

prisoners at Iraq's infamous Radwaniyeh Hussein's regime recently 
slaughtered hundreds of prisoners 

death camp. at Radwaniyeh death camp. It is reported his troops are arresting all 
Most were reportedly Shiite Muslims 
who have been rounded up by the 
Shiite males over 15 and taking 

Baghdad government since an ill-fated 
them to Radwaniyeh. 


Saddam's Gulf War defeat in early 1991. 
Ayatollah Mohammed Bakr al-Hakim, a senior Shiite cleric and leading dissi­dent, and Hussein Sharastani, who moni­tors human rights abuses in Iraq, told The Associated Press in separate inter­views that refugees from Iraq reported that the Radwaniyeh executions took place three months ago. 
Many of the victims were buried in mass graves, they said. But they noted that hundreds of bodies have been de­livered to their families for burial in recent weeks -a move apparently aimed at intimidating the Shiites. 
"We know from refugees and eyewit­nesses that 150 bodies were delivered to al-Amarah," a southern Shiite city, said Sharastani, head of Gulf War Victims, a human rights group in Tehran. 
Sharastani said he also received similar reports from other places and believes as many as 2,000 prisoners were executed. 
Figure from Jackson concert unknown LAS VEGAS 
No figures were available yet Monday on how much money the "Jackson Family Honors" show will produce for charity, a family spokesman said. "It's way too early to determine anything at this time. All the expenses will have to be figured," John McLaughlin said of Saturday night's snow. The show, promoted as a musi­cal reunion for the talented, troubled 


family, featured Michael Jackson honoring his close friend Elizabeth Taylor and Motown record mogul Berry Gordy. Ticket prices for the event ranged from $50 to $1,000, with pre-show promotions saying a portion of the $500 and $1,000 tickets would go to several charities, including California earthquake relief funds. Attendance was estimated at 12,000, but no breakdown was avail­able as to how many higher priced tickets were sold. Midrange tickets priced at $200 and $350 were reduced to $50 to $150 last week because of lagging sales in that range. 
World population must drop before 2100 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Earth's land, water and cropland are disappearing so rapidly that the world population must be slashed to 2 billion or less by 2100 to provide prosperity for all in that year, says a study released Monday. The alternative, if current trends continue, is a population of 12 billion to 15 billion people and an apocalyptic worldwide scene of "absolute misery, poverty, disease and starvation," said the study's author, David Pimentel, an ecologist at Cor­nell University. In the United States, the population would climb to 500 million and the standard of living would decline to slightly better than in present-day China, Pimentel said at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Even now, the world population of 6 billion is at least three times what the Earth's battered natural resources and depleted energy reserves would be able to comfortably support in 2100, Pimentel said. 
NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 22.
Tuesday, Feb. 22 
FRONTS: 
....,.......... ..&...a.. -yA..,­

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Wealher, Inc. 
P18SSUf8 

H L rn &:;:~ [!]] 0 ~81)

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Poll finds 97 percent of nuns are over 40 
LOS ANGELES 

Fewer young women are becoming nuns in the United States but those who are sisters say they're happy with the lives they've chosen, according to a newspaper poll published Monday. Only 3 percent of nuns surveyed in the United States and Puerto Rico were 40 or younger, the Los Angeles Times poll found. The median age of the 1,049 nuns surveyed was 65. As the Roman Catholic church approaches the next century, greater numbers of nuns are leaving its ranks. In 1993, there were 94,022 nuns in the United States, compared to a peak of 181,421 in 1966. In 1988, there were 106,912 sisters. "American Catholics have no idea how very soon there will be no nuns," said Sister Patricia Wittberg, a church sociologist at Indiana University. Eighty-seven percent of nuns responding to the poll said they were satisfied with their lives and 60 percent indicated their lives were better than they anticipated. An overwhelming majority of 88 percent said they would definitely or probably enter their professions if making the choice again. More than nine out of 10 nuns said it was very unlikely they would ever abandon their vocation. 
British vote on consent age for gays 
LONDON 

The House of Commons voted Monday to lower the age of consent for sex between men from 21 to 18, angering gays who'd lobbied to cut the age to 16 to conform with laws for heterosexuals and lesbians. "Eighteen is not a compromise. It's discrimination," said Peter Tatchell, a spokesman for the gay rights group OutRage. The Commons first narrowly defeated an amendment to lower the age to 16, then voted 427-162 to lower the age to 18. Prime Minister John Major, seeking compromise on a divisive issue, had backed the proposal to lower the age to 18. The proposal to lower the age to 16 was spon­sored by Conservative lawmaker Edwina Currie, and backed by the opposition Labor Party and the British Medical Association. "I am not for gay rights. I am for equal rights for all," Currie told a crowded Commons chamber before the first vote, in which her measure failed 307 to 280. 
"From past experience, we know that not all the bodies of people exe­cuted are returned, so we calculate from the number returned that around 2,000 inmates were executed in Radwaniyeh, and possibly else­where," he said. 
There was no independent confir­mation of the claims. Baghdad does not permit outside observers into Iraq to monitor human rights and the few journalists allowed in are heavily restricted. 
Saddam's regime, dominated by minority Sunni Muslims, has in recent months intensified a campaign of repression against the majority Shiites. 
Amnesty International, the London­based human rights organization, reported in November that hundreds of people were being rounded up by military and intelligence units. 
"Many died under torture or were executed en masse," Amnesty said. "Former detainees at Radwaniyeh tes­
tified that executions were carried out regularly through­out 1993." 
The regime's actions are in defiance of U.N. Security Council Resolution 688, which prohibits Saddam from persecuting his own people. 
Production David Clairmont Lynn Bauwens Michael Martin 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday duough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rcsc:rvcd. 
Adant:a  71  57  Denver  34  22  Palatine  39  28  
Balrimore  52  39  Los Angeles  64  46  Philadelphia  52  41  
Boston  50  45  Miami  80  70  Phoenix  66  50  
Chicago  38  27  Minneapolis  24  II  St. Louis  45  34  
Colombus  45  37  New Orleans  74  61  San Francisco  58  46  
Dallas  62  49  New York  53  47  Seattle  48  38  


Tuesday, February 22, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 



Meeting raises important issues 
By DAVE TYLER 
NewsWritet 
If any students, faculty or staff on campus thought that the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (NCA) reaccreditation process would be ignored by the student body, they were wrong. 
The NCA hosted an open meeting for students last night in the Center for Social Con­cerns, as part of its efforts to determine if the University of Notre Dame is living up to stan­dards set by its peers across the nation. A delegation of student government officials expressed a wide range of concerns to a three member panel, about top­ics such as gender relations and perceived student govern­ment inefficiency. 
The panel, composed of Uni­versity of Chicago Professor Lorna Strauss, United States Naval Academy Athletic Direc­tor Jack Lengyel and Canisius College Vice President for Stu­dent Affairs Thomas Miller, opeed the meeting with an assurance that student con­cerns would be voiced to mem­bers of the administration. 
With this invitation extended, students proceeded to address a long list of grievances. The role of parietals in student life was questioned by Hall Presi­dent's Council Co-Chair Chris Canzoniero. 
"The University's stand on parietals seems almost hypo­critical," Canzoniero said. "By admitting us as students, the University acknowledges us as not only excellent students but trustworthy ones at that. Then by enforcing adherence to pari­etals, they ignore that state­ment of trust." 
Also discussed was the Uni­versity's recent commitment to a mostly Catholic faculty. Graduate student Maria Fuentes said this amounted to "Catholic affirmative action." She expressed concern that professor quality may be sacri­ficed for quantity. 
"An important question to ask is this: will the word 'qualified' appear before 'Catholic fac­ulty?"' she noted. 
The purpose of the University Honor Code was debated. It was characterized as patroniz­ing and ineffectual by several attendees of the meeting. Keenan Hall Vice President Rich Palermo observed that students sign the code willingly but are still seated in alternate seats by many professors on test days. 
"It doesn't have the teeth it was designed to have, " Palermo said. 
Lack of student involvement in the creation and unkeep of the code was also criticized. 
Another central issue of stu­dent concern was the relation­ship between the student body and the administration. Student Body President Frank Flynn criticized the lack of a direct link between students and the administration on the legisla­tive level. 
"We can't pass a resolution that receives the immediate attention of the Office of Stu­dent Affairs," Flynn said. "That leads students to think the stu­dent government is not doing anything when we are. Student government is reduced to being ineffectual because the chan­nels of communication are closed by the administration." 
Student government mem­bers cited what they say are examples of administration in­sensitivity towards student needs. 
Hilary Bonenberger, Co­President of Knott Hall told a story of a taxi voucher proposal that sat on a three different desks for a month before HPC was told they had sent the pro­posal to the wrong office. 
When Strauss asked Flynn if there was an ombudsman or student advocate position on campus, he answered in the negative. "We were told right before this meeting that there may be a similar post someday, but no guarantees have been made." 
Canzoniero also expressed dismay at the effort that has to be made to talk to many offi­cials. "We all but beg Father Malloy and others to attend our meetings, but they sentiment is never returned." 
"Students have to force their opinions on the administration, and nothing come of it. Until student government and the Administration start cooperat­ing, problems will continue to exist." 
Although University reac­creditation is almost a foregone conclusion, Strauss, Miller and Lengyel were impressed by stu­dent reaction to the forum. "This meeting was supposed to produce this kind of reaction, " said Miller. "We hope that we can be of help in addressing some of the issues raised." 
;. ...:.:; ~·::·.·.:~ 

w(Q) QJJ ~ ©~~ ~.Ii{R.l~~~­
THE PRINCIPAL EDGE®. 
Sixth largest life insurance company in the U.S.; in business over 114 years; more than 12,000 employees nationwide. Pretty impressive numbers, right. What's even more impressive is the fact that we serve over 7.5 million customers, are expanding into the international marketplace with 51 regional sales offices throughout the country. We are the Principal Financial Group'";. We have career opportunities and would like to meet you. 
Please join us to visit about a 
Career Opportunity 
Interviewers will he on campus: 


Monday, February 28 
Explore a career selling employee benefit programs to businesses. 
Portfolio:  Includes retirement plans; group insurance; and payroll deduction insurance programs.  
Compensation:  Competitive Salary, incentive bonus, company car, benefits package, and excellent training.  
Location:  Various metropolitan cities throughout the United States.  
Stop at your  

Career and Placement Services Hesburgh Library 
to sign up for an interview. 



~----------~-----~­
-page4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 22, 1994 
"Once you get to know the and Wellesley promote very dif­sity of Missouri, Columbia, women you fmd out that they're ferent academic environments Columbia College and Stevens



Christmas Bryn Mawr 
very down to earth and basical­which create different pres­interact, according to Director ly the same as women at other sures for the students there. of Student Activities at Stevens
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
schools." College Yolanda Travino. home repairs are made to a to the number of women," The women of Wellesley are At Trinity College, a women's In addition to cross-registra­neighborhood," Johnson said. Thomas said. "There are often stereotyped because of college in Washington D.C., stu­tion for classes, the sororities, He cited numerous jobs includ­stereotypes, and people say the distance factor between the dents can register for classes at fraternities, residence halls and 
ing assisting technicians, mate­that everyone knows X, but two schools, according to Davis. all the colleges in the area that student activities boards also 
rials supervision and meal then they say that they have Buses run between the cam­make up the consortium, but no work together to provide pro­providers as just some of the friends that are an exception to puses, but often because of the other structured relationships gramming and social outlets for 
more "behind the scenes" jobs the stereotype, it seems like distance and a formal academic exists between the schools. students on the three cam­of Christmas in April. everyone is an exception, but exchange with the Mas­Trinity historically had a puses. Training sessions for Christmas in April, a nation­the stereotypes still persist." sachusetts Institute of Technol­stronger social relationship peer councilors on issues of al­
wide project, came to Notre The perceptions of a women's ogy students often only visit with the students of George­cohol abuse, sexual assault and Dame about six years ago, he college are alive and well at Harvard as a social escape. town, but now they turn to no suicide also takes place jointly. 
said. While "not under any Harvard in Cambridge, Mass. "They get dressed up and specific campus because they Stevens students also find umbrella" of one campus as well. look striking when they come have so many choices, accord­that stereotypes are perpetu­group, the project does receive Wellesley, 20 miles from out for the night in comparison ing to Ann Pauley, director of ated about women on their support from various campus Harvard, is plagued by the to the women we see every day communication at Trinity. campus as well. and community organizations, stereotypical images of a wom­on our campus in their sweats," Students often visit the insti­Travino said that among the Johnson said. en's college student, according Davis said. tution of their choosing or meet stereotypes that exist are that 
It is a great example of to Harvard Junior Todd Davis. There is a general respect for people at the bars and coffee­Stevens women are all wealthy, "Notre Dame working with the "Everyone thinks of an all­the academic integrity of houses near the campuses. thin, very independent and self­South Bend community," women's college and they think Wellesley, according to Davis Students at Stevens College in assured. McConville added. that all the women will be femi­who said that it is still difficult Columbia, Missouri also partic­"Some of them (the stereo­
Johnson agreed. "It unites us nist, lesbian, hate men or be so for people at Harvard to envi­ipate in a coexchange with the types) are true of some students [Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and starved for male compan­sion any classes harder than two other colleges in the area. and some of them are not," South Bend] in a way that real­ionship that they'd be easy and their own, though. There is There are many ways in Travino said. "The same is true ly defmes community," he said. eager to please," Davis said. also recognition that Harvard which the students at Univer-of all kinds of stereotypes." 
"It brings us together." 

Although advertising has 

Judge warns against courtroom outbursts 
been geared toward members of the Notre Dame, Saint By BILL KACZOR death penalty in exchange for nity for the lawyers to obtain abortions while a protest was Mary's and Holy Cross com­Associated Press testimony from a jail official exposure." being held outside of the clinic. munities, all are welcome, Mc­who overheard a conversation Gunn, 4 7, was shot three Parnham has ordered that Conville said. "We won't turn PENSACOLA, Fla. between Griffin and his wife. times in the back when he ar­prospective jurors be identified away people from the [South An activist accused of killing Parnham also warned that he rived at Pensacola Women's only by number, and that theyBend] community." But, she an abortion doctor won't be al­would tolerate no outbursts, Medical Services to perform be questioned in private. added, "We would like for stu­lowed to use an insanity de­showboating or politics in his dents and faculty to get in­
fense, a judge ruled Monday courtroom. volved." during the first day of jury se­After a defense attorney com­
Sign-ups to participate in this plained about spectators wear­
lection. year's Christmas in April are Michael Gritrm, an anti-abor­ing lapel pins, Parnham said he today and tomorrow from 11 
tion activist and Christian fun­was banning any items stating 
a.m. to 2 p.m. and again from damentalist, is charged with a point of view from his court­4 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the library room during the trial. 
first-degree murder for the Concourse. Sign-ups can be March 10 shooting of Dr. David "This trial itself is not an op­individuals or groups as large Gunn. portunity for a demonstration," as eight. Circuit Judge John Parnham Parnham said. "The trial is not 
McConville noted that this is on Monday approved a deal in an opportunity for a protest."a great opportunity to serve which the state won't seek the And this trial is not an opportu­the community of South Bend." 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents: 
ARaisinintheSun 
by Lorraine Hansbem 
Washington Hall University of Notre Dome Wednesday, February 23-Soturdoy, February 26, at 8:10 p.m. Sunday, February 27, at 2:30 p.m. 
Kym Mo o r e 


------~--------­
Tuesday, February 22, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS LECTURE NEWS page 5 


Surplus oflawyers due to media portrayal, reports dean 
By JOHN WYNNE Link referred to the three lem solving, although both are ing corporation, according to of the approximately thirty law News Writer "oldest and most traditional" commonly termed 'lawyers.' Link. schools in the nation capable of 
professions of healing. The First, there is the legal techni­Addressing the undergradu­providing an education in cre­
The recent surge in appli­medical profession has tradi­cian who resolves commonly ate audience, Link advised that ative problem solving tech­cants for the nation's 176 law tionally been charged with the occurring problems by applying in looking at a law school, a niques. These schools tend to schools can partially be at­healing of the body. the clergy solutions. Then there are cre­student should primarily look be small (under 600 students) tributed to the public's misun­with that of the spirit or soul ative problem solvers who tack­for flexibility within the pro­and medium (600-1200 stu­derstandings surrounding the and the legal profession with ledifficulties and resolve them gram which should emphasize dents) institutions capable of essence of the legal profession, that of society. Originally, with original solutions. These the basics of problem solving providing individual attention .. according to Dean Link, a pro­lawyers ftlled the role of peace­two general types of lawyers first, and then provide some One student asked whether or fessor in the Notre Dame Law makers or mediators, similar to exist in all the different forms sort of specialty work in the not it was important to go to School. the current role of judges. and every aspect of law. third year. law school where you would 
The Pre-Law Society met last Today, attorneys are viewed "So people who claim that the Students also should examine like to work. Link said that this night to hear Link speak on more in the light of advocates country has too many lawyers the potential of a given law was an important factor if the "The Future of the Law or counselors. are both right and wrong," he school for fostering a network type of work that you sought Profession." "The profession is in the pro­said. of contacts, a feature which was local work such as real 
In television shows such as cess of returning to the role of "They are right in that we are becomes essential in the face of estate, wills or trusts. Local 
L.A. Law in which all the cases the mediator," said Link. overstocked on legal techni­a competitive job market. work requires local contacts, have a dramatic ending Link gave three main cate­cians and wrong in that we are Finally, a student should con­and because a large considera­lawyers simply name their fees, gories of legal education. The extremely understocked on cre­sider in which institution he or tion in the hiring process of a and there is often as much love­division of problem solvers ative problem solvers. Creative she can best perform. firm is whether or not a student making as there is paperwork includes legal practitioners, problem solving is much more Link advised, "Go to a school will bring personal contacts to on the attorney's desk simply judges and theorists. difficult and not every attorney where you will be a big ftsh in a the firm, going to a law school do not reflect the profession as Legislators, government offi­possesses the capacity for it," small pond because the magic in the area where you wish to it exists today. according to cials and other politicians make he said. of the big pond is no longer work would help in finding Link. up the second group. Finally, When the economy recently there with not as many people employment. 
Fundamentally, stated Link, ther are those who use their collapsed, vital major clients fishing any longer." On the other hand, again be­the essence of the legal profes­legal training as a general pulled back their business, Link made an appeal to the cause firms hire on a referral sion is one of problem solving. background in business or vari­realizing that they could get the !rtudents to consider the life of a basis, if an applicant envisions The legal education is the most ous other fields. same quality of work from "Double-Domer,'' a student who regional work he or she should sophisticated training available Though the occupation is regional and in-house prac­chooses to stick out three more go to a law school outside of the for the analysis and resolution changing dramatically, the pro­tices. Attorneys with large winters in South Bend for the desired city. This ensures that of social, economic and familial fession does have room for firms were more than willing to sake of attending the they will bring in outside con­problems with which the pro­many additional lawyers. leave their often impersonal University's School of Law. tacts to the firm, according to fession deals on a daily basis. There are really two legal employers and become the in­A Double-Domer himself, Link Link. 
professions dealing with prob-house counsel for a higher pay-counts Notre Dame Law as one 
Sitcoms influence women's roles 


By MINDY KRAUSS they see on T.V." said class woman where Lucy is the



appy 21 
News Writer Alexander. This has been true middle class woman," said since the 1950s with Donna White. The portrayl of women on sit­Reed and continues today in coms has been both positive women such as Roseanne Johnson discussed the treat­

Carolyn! 
and negative today and in the Arnold. Alexander continued to ment of Elaine, a character on past, according to Susan say that because of the media the hit show Seinfeld. "Elaine

J{o clowning around ­
Alexander, professor of sociol­organization theory, women says what she thinks. She is a 

you made it! ogy, Patrick White, professor of are seen as insubordinate liberated woman, very aggres­
English and associate dean of images. The media is a power­sive in social conditions." 

We are l'ery proud ofyou! 
faculty, and Carla Johnson pro­ful agent and it is unlikely that Yet, "Elaine is not made an 
fessor of communications. gender images will change even equal among the men that she

l:gr;e, A panel of faculty member with the success of shows such is friends with. At best, the 
discussed the issue of gender as "Murphy Brown." show is a sexist view of soci­

Mom,Justin, and relations portrayed on televi­White discussed the differ­ety," said Johnson. 
sion. "People imitate what ences between Lucille Ball and It is also evident that Elaine's 


Grandma 


yone •~--­


Pick up application in 
Student Government Office 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Applications available Monday, February 21-25. 

Application deadline Monda Feb 28. 
Roseanne Arnold as portrayed in real life and on television. 
"Both follow the defmition of women from their respective times. Rosanne gives and takes verbal abuse and continually acts tough. She is the working character gives society the abil­ity to leave things as status quo among both genders. The show emphasizes that women today are still kept out of desirable privileges and positions, according to Johnson. 



FRANCE RUSSIA ENGLAND • 
Global Internship and. Language Programs 
• 
-
"' 

INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS 
BOSTON 
UNIVERSITY 
---~--~--~--------~~~~-----~----·~-­
page 6 

The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 22, 1994 
Relations 
continued from page I 
that any major effort to im­
prove relations must come from 
the students. 
"How these issues can best be 
addressed is going to require 
good-faith, energy and inten­
tions of students," College Pres­
ident William Hickey said. 
During his time at Notre 
Dame, Father Richard Warner, 
counselor to the president, said 
that much has been done to 
improve the overall relations 
between men and women on 
both campuses, but furthering 
the process should be mainly 
the effort of students. 
"First it requires for there to be a need and ifthere is a need a few people need to commit the time to making it success­ful," Warner said. 
Tensions between the two campuses is not new though, rather the relationship has been characterized by 150 years of tensions that vary by degree and type, Hickey said. 
"The relationship has seen enormous change over time," Hickey said. "There is a per­ception that 20 years ago when Notre Dame went co-educa­tional and Saint Mary's re­mained all-women that is when all the tensions started." 
Relations are good, but in any human relationship there is always room for improvement, according to Warner. 
"We are within a framework of real respect for the differ­ences and for the common points between the two schools," Warner said. "Historically and currently I would say the relations are very good." 
Respect for the differences between a small Catholic liber­al arts college for women and a national Catholic research uni­versity is key, according to both administrations. 
"Saint Mary's is clearly aim­ing at quite different goals," Hickey said. "It is the differ­ences that can sometimes be­come exaggerated when talking about Saint Mary's and a doc­toral degree awarding insti­tution." 
"I am quite aware of some of the tensions that exist; you know they exist or it would not be regularly talked about as an issue that needs to be worked on," he added. 
Both formal and informal re­lationships exist between the two schools including a coex­change of classes, informal discussions between adminis­trators, faculty and students and some shared clubs and organizations. 
Interaction through these for­mal and informal structures is one way in which students begin to see through the myths. 
"It's a shame that the stereo­types ever started and that they continued prospering," said Saint Mary's Professor of Business Jack Ruhe a Notre Dame faculty member before 

MontegoBay Negrll 
Cancun 
'IJtfi•I'IIINI fr.m lndlanapalb er Chkatolll 
'Oift« POIIVIIII' cles11na!lona lndu<le ·--CIIJ A Dllf'IINIII IMcll, flerldcl 
'(:all,.,.. morwlniiM'It>CIItlonltl 
from$449 lrom$479 ftom$469 

coming to Saint Mary's. 
"Both schools ought to en­courage students from both schools to experience the dif­ferent type of classroom that each school offers," said Ruhe who has had sons and daugh­ters who have attended both institutions. Notre Dame stu­dents begin to learn and de­velop different skills in the small classes at Saint Mary's and Saint Mary's students learn the dynamics of interacting with males in a larger class environment. 
''I've had Notre Dame males in the past years in my classes come away with a better un­derstanding and appreciation of Saint Mary's," said Ruhe, who explained that more of this interaction will continue to improve the relations and break through the stereotypes. 
The administrations agree that interaction among students and acceptance of the dif­ferences between the two insti­tutions is the way in which bet­ter relations are incurred. 
"I think that maybe if we can bring ourselves to recognizing and accepting differences, dif­ferences that define the strength of the two institutions, then maybe we can see beyond some of the areas that may well be the basis for some of the ar­eas where we have tensions," Hickey said. 




Diplomacy working in Sarajevo 
By PAUL ALEXANDER 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
With the threat of NATO air strikes averted, peacekeepers Monday moved in to control the remaining Serb guns around Sarajevo while diplomats turned up the heat for a politi­cal settlement. 
Immediate air strikes against remaining Serb artillery posi­tions were unnecessary, NATO and United Nations officials said. 
But NATO warplanes flew over Sarajevo to monitor Serb compliance. 
Although some Serb guns remained in place after the Monday 1 a.m. deadline, the Serbs were credited with trying to comply with an ultimatum that could have put NATO into combat for the first time ever. 
Any more shelling in Sarajevo would meet with "immediate military response," warned Gen. Jean Cot, commander of 
U.N. forces in former Yugoslavia. 
Monday's catchword-from Russians, Americans and Eu­ropeans -was momentum: Use this halt in the siege of Sarajevo as a model for a wider settlement in Bosnia, where 200,000 people are dead or missing in 22 months of war. 
"The challenge," said Presi­dent Clinton at a White House news conference, " .. .is to build on this week's progress and create a lasting and work­able peace for all the people of Bosnia." 
Clinton said the United States would renew its efforts to help "reinvigorate the peace pro­cess," and that Russia would be a partner. 
"We must not let this favor­able moment pass," Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev said during a visit in Hungary in which he stressed the need for cooperation be­tween Moscow and the West on Bosnia. 
Russia, traditionally pro-Serb, meanwhile sent 400 troops to join U.N. peacekeepers in Sarajevo, a move that appar­ently ensured the Serbs' coop­eration. 
The Bosnian Serbs, who started the war nearly two years ago in a bid to create a "Greater Serbia" with neigh­boring Serb-dominated Yu­goslavia, said Russia's stronger role was welcomed. 
Leaders of Bosnia's Muslim-led government expressed op­timism that the war could be ended. 
Bosnian Premier Haris Sila­jdzic, who met Secretary of State Warren Christopher in Washington on Monday, said nothing is the same after the NATO ultimatum. 
"We have a long way to go, but we believe that this is the first step towards the peace be­cause it restores the balance of power in Bosnia," he said. 
"Celebrate this victory and don't be afraid any more," Bosnia's Muslim President Alija Izetbegovic said on national TV. The removal of Serb guns is "first in a line of good things that will happen in Sarajevo," he said. 
Bosnian Vice President Ejup Ganic, deeply pessimistic Sun­day about the lack of air strikes, changed his tune and said NATO's power and U.N. troops could be used in other hot spots such as the embattled city of Mostar. 
The optimism suggested that the Americans, who have said they will help the Bosnians get the peace settlement they seek, were weighing in diplomatically to do just that. 

PRINCIPI.ES o( S<>L':\1) REI'IRE,\\E:\'1 IN\'ESTING 

E
very year, a lot of people make a huge mistake on their taxes. They don't take advantage of tax deferral and wind up sending Uncle Sam money they could be saving for retirement. 
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs not only ease your current tax­bite, they offer a remarkably easy way to build retirement income-especially for the "extras" that your regular pension and Social Security benefits may not cover. Because your contributions are made in before-tax dollars, you pay less taxes now. And since all earnings on your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the money you don't send to Washington works even harder for you. Down the road, that can make a dramatic difference in your quality of life. 
What else makes SRAs so special? A range ofallocation choices-from the guaranteed security of TIAA to the diversified investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity-all backed by the nation's number one retirement system. 
Why write off the chance for a more rewarding retirement? Call today and le<trn more about how TIAA-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy many happy returns. 
Benefit now from tRX deferml. CR.U our SRA hotline 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016. 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it:M 
CREE rrrl•/u:a/uart Ji.rlrihultJ by TIAA-CREF lnJiviJJUJJI anJ lnslilulwnal Savicu. For rrwrt compklt informalion, incluJing cba~qu anJ exptnst.r, call I 800·842·27JJ, ul. 80/6 for aprosptciUJ. R<ad lht prosptciUJ cart:fully b<forr you invu/ or stnJ monty. 
·-'


---·-J 
---~---~-~-~--~----~-~--------. -----------~~----~~~-~--~-------­




BUSINESS 
Tuesday, February 22, 1994 page 7 
FACULTY BUSINESS FORUM 
Japan trade presents challenge and opportunity 


The latest breakdown in bilateral trade talks portends a turning point in U.S. policy toward Japan. As Japan refused to give in the U.S. demand for numerical benchmarks to measure the success in market opening, the Clinton administration is considering options for unilater­al trade sanctions. 
After more than 30 separate trade agreements, the U.S. con­
Kwan Kim 
tinues to suffer 50 to 60 billion -------­dollars of trade deficit with Japan a year. This time, the policy-makers in Washington decided to take a hard-nosed, tough stance against Japan. 
Will the sanctions work? As long as American demands for market opening remain consistent with the Hosokawa government's own programs for eco­nomic reform, Japan is expected to cower again as has been the case in the past. After all, Japan would stand to lose most. The new government may well ap­preciate the gaiatsu (outside pressure) as a way ~o legitimize its own campaign to reform the economic structure that was more appropriate when Japan had a weaker economy. 
While the obvious winners from the sanctions will be a few American industries or firms that can be helped by U.S intervention, _the flip side of t~e san~­tions will be that by punishmg Japanese busmess m the current economic recession, they could have a boomerang effect on American exports. ­
The reason is that Japan's trade surplus tends to balloon when the Japanese economy is in recession, as it is now; and when it is stronger than the U.S. economy, as was during 1985-91, the surplus dimin­ishes. As Japan's trade surplus largely reflects the excess saving of the Japanese over and above their investment, it is Jess importantly related to the trade barriers or the yen-dollar exchange rate. 
For instance, despite the continuous endaka (strong yen), whose nominal rate vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar has risen some 70 percent since the Plaza Accord in 1985, 
U.S. trade deficit with Japan has continued to grow; a slower consumption and a fall-off in investment at­tributable to the current recession has been a key fac­tor contributing to the rise in Japan's excess saving. Aside from the economic impacts, the larger issue is the American insistence on the Japanese government to pressure Japanese companies to import more to achieve numerical goals. · 
First of all, such specific goals would require exces­sive interference in business decisions which would run counter to the Japanese government's business deregulation eforts. More importantly, the acceptance of numerical targeting would imply Japan's admit­tance that its trade practices are unique. This could open a Pandora's box, inviting other trade deficit na­tions to follow the American suit. It is thus very unlikely that Japan will accept any numerical bench­marks imposed from the outside. 
Viewed in this context, the sector-selective approach to market opening is unlikely to solve the basic macroeconomic imbalances between the two nations. The keys to addressing trade disputes are the identification of a win/win strategy and the collabora­tion with Japan to implement such a strategy. 
In this context, the U.S. should be concerned more with the Hosokawa government's efforts for economic reform and stimulus packages aimed at boosting the moribund economy. Also from the perspective of Japan, a surplus of $130 billion can be used to improve public facilities, housing and welfare, to make living conditions better. and at the same time to stimulate the economy through a release of greater spending power for the Japanese consumer. 
The real challenge facing Japan's reform-minded government is how to deal with !ts own p~we~ful bu­reaucracy which is concerned With defendmg Its own vested interests and those of the business it regulates. 
On the other hand, the domestic allies calling for change and reform are not hard to find, especially among Japanese business and consumer groups who would favor the dismantling of rigged bidding systems and of complex and inefficient distribution networks, and the deregulation of bureaucratic rules which hamper business and consumer interests. 
Now is a golden opportunity to work out a win/win strategy so that gaiatsu can be internalized for posi­tive results in both cmmtries. 
Kwan Kim is a Professor ofEconomics and Faculty Fellow ofthe Kellogg Institute. 


Japan considers trade access plan 
Associated Press $59.3 billion last year. 
Spokesman Masayoshi Takemura 

TOKYO said Monday that the trade, finance 
Japan is considering a plan to and foreign ministers will meet this measure foreign access to its mar­week to discuss measures to tackle kets, but officials on Monday the trade surplus. emphasized once again that they Meanwhile, chief trade negotiator wouldn't set specific targets sought Koichiro Matsuura, who is deputyby U.S. negotiators. foreign minister for international 
Trade ministry officials said they affairs, told reporters Monday that are willing to keep comparative Japan's most important task is to statistics of factors affecting foreign trim its trade surplus by opening its access, such as the number of deal­markets and promoting domestic ers that handle imported cars and growth, rather than exports. government purchases of foreign products. In the past, U.S. complaints that 
But they said the statistics won't Japan's markets were closed drew refer to goals, as demanded by the heated denials from Japanese offi­United States. cials. Tokyo has argued that 
Japan's rejection of the demands Japan's markets were as open as for benchmarks for U.S. products to others, if not more so, and that measure success in opening Japanese consumers can't be Japanese markets led to the col­forced to buy U.S. goods if theylapse of trade talks between their don't want to. leaders in Washington two weeks But the threat of U.S. trade sanc­ago. Japan says the U.S. demand tions has prompted Japanese lead­
violates the principle of free trade. ers to step up efforts to dismantle cumbersome regulations and 
The United States has since encourage imports -areas in threatened sanctions in an effort to which they acknowledge there is reduce Japan's trade bilateral room for improvement. 
trade surplus, which hit a record The U.S. threat of sanctions has 

Fed moved prematurely on interest rates, critics charge 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
It was billed as a "preemptive strike" against inflation, but Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan is coming under heavy fire from critics who say he may have moved too soon in pushing up interest rates. 
The idea was that an interest rate boost would actually help to hold down such key borrowing costs as long-term mortgage rates, but it hasn't worked out that way. 
"Slow money growth will drag down the economy -n_ot a wise or compassionate move when millions of American are in dire straits and nearly 7 percent of the labor force is unemployed," said House Banking Committee Chairman Henry Gonzalez, D-Texas. 
Greenspan can expect more com­plaints like that Tuesday when he appears before a House Banking subcommittee to give the Fed's twice-a-year report on the economy and interest rates. 
He will be forced to defend the Fed's decision on Feb. 4 to boost its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, from 3 percent up to 3.25 percent. 
The small upward nudge had a big fallout on Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 96 points in one day and long-term interest rates, the kind that were supposed to be held back by the Fed's move, have been steadily ris­ing. 
Last Friday, the yield on the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond jumped to 6.62 percent, its highest level since last July and up 
0.30 percentage point from where it was trading before the Fed's move. 
That means that long-term rates have so far risen more than short­term rates, just the opposite impact the Fed's action was supposed to have. 
The plunge in bond prices oc­curred even though the news on inflation has continued to be extra­ordinarily good. The government reported last Thursday that con­sumer prices did not rise at all in 

AP File Photo 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan may have acted prema­turely by raising short-term interest rates in a bid to head off inflation. 
January, the first time that has occurred in more than four years. 
Investors have chosen to ignore the current good news on inflation and to worry instead about how fast the economy is growing at pre­sent. Analysts now believe that the gross domestic product raced ahead at an astonishing 7 percent annual rate in the final three months of the year. 
"A growing number of market participants fear that the prolonged period of very low interest rates has finally triggered an economic boom and that inflation must even­tually follow," said Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch. 
Contributing to the upward pres­sure on interest rates has been a sharp fall in the value of the dollar against the Japanese yen, a side effect from the collapse of U.S.­Japanese talks aimed at lowering America's record $59.3 billion trade deficit with Japan. 
Investors are worried that the Japanese, who are big purchasers of U.S. government securities, could start pulling out of the American market because of the weak dollar. 
angered many Japanese. 
Staffers at Nippon Motorola Ltd., the Japanese subsidiary of the U.S. Motorola Inc., said Monday that the entrance of their Tokyo headquar­ters was defaced overnight with spray-painted graffiti. 
The graffiti, written in Japanese, said, "Crush the U.S. empire's pushy sales diplomacy." 
Motorola, a major U.S. cellular phone maker, is at the center of a dispute with Washington over its access to Japan's cellular phone market. 
The threat of sanctions won praise Monday from leaders of the American labor movement. 
The AFL-CIO's 35-member exec­utive board, meeting in Bal Harbour, Fla., issued a statement saying the Clinton administration "was correct to suspend trade negotiations with Japan." 
The union leaders said the administration's action recognizes "that the long-standing asymmetry in trade between the two countries is not acceptable and that rhetoric and empty agreements are no cure." 


FCC tries 
•


agatn to cut cable rates 
By JEANNINE A VERSA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Responding to complaints that its first attempt to cut cable television rates didn't work, the Federal Communications Commission is expected to order another reduc­tion this week. 
It's not yet clear how much the rates for service and equipment will be cut when the commission meets Tuesday. But cable industry executives said rate cuts could range from 5 percent to .as much as 15 percent. 
When the FCC adopted cable price rules last April, it predicted that rates for regulated services would go down at least 10 percent for two-thirds of the 57 million cable subscribers. 
Some did. Other rates went up ­an unintended consequence of the regulations, which cover virtually all 11,000 cable systems, the FCC has said. 
The 1992 Cable Act gave the FCC authority to oversee rates for chan­nels not included in the basic pack­age -channels like ESPN and MTV -and any special equipment need­ed to deliver these channels. Rates for premium services, such as HBO, are not regulated. 
Basic service generally consists of broadcast signals and public, edu­cational and governmental access channels, and a few cable chan­nels, such as CNN. Rates for that service are regulated by local governments, who also regulate rates for more common equipment, such as convertor boxes and remote controls. 
FCC economists and attorneys were refining the new rate struc­ture late last week and none would discuss either the size or scope of the expected cuts. 
What the economists have been wrestling with is how best to esti­mate what price a local cable sys­tem would charge if it had competi­tion. Only 3 percent of the nation's cable systems compete with anoth­er cable provider. 

------~-------~-------­


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 22, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Bwiness Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager ..................... Anne He roman  
Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry  Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman  
Sport.< Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ................. , ....... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters  OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631·5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
Spons  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  



EDITORIAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dispelling myths 

over Route 31 
You've heard the myths. Notre Dame men are chauvinists. Notre Dame women are uptight. All Saint Mary's students failed to get into Notre Dame. They're dumb. They're easy. 
Even today, more than 150 years after the founding of both schools, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and administra­tors fight an age-old battle to break down the stereotypes and foster better relations. 
To say the relationship has been strained is an under­statement. But the schools' proximity and shared history is incentive enough for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to continue to share resources -educationaL cultural and social. 
Breaking down the stereotypes and restructuring a relationship that has gone sour are more important. Few students are exposed to the myths until they've experienced an inane graffiti dance or a couple of sweaty, alcohol-drenched parties. The sim­ple approach is to start before the problems even occur: 
• 
Orientation always seems to be a good place to begin. Spending time introducing students to opportunities on the other campus is an option. More social activities during that week would allow a few more students to meet their counterparts across the street without the trappings of alcoholic events. 

• 
Programming for the women on both campuses during the first weeks of school can create a common bond, especially on issues particularly affecting women. Through sexual assault, harassment and self defense programs, women from both schools can meet on common ground. 

• 
Student governments on both campuses must cooperate. Better communication and representation on each other's deci­sion-making boards can help them share research, develop ideas and explore the possibility of more joint programming. 

• 
Clubs and organizations with common interests and goals should recruit on both campuses. 


The goal of all this is easy to understand for Saint Mary's stu­dents who work with those at Notre Dame. Or for Notre Dame students with friends across the street. For anyone who has reached out to make the connection, it is clear that the myths don't hold water. 
The goal, then, is to encourage these types of relationships that break down the stereotypes. Only then can real cooperation begin. 
Tomorrow: The Observer looks at diversity issues at Saint Mary's. 

Pro-life fentinist offers alternative 
Dear Editor: stress the word usually because philosophy which values and 
In her column, "'Feminist women still die from "safe and recognizes the interdependence Bias' Discriminates Against legal" abortions (Dr. Camilla of all living things. Feminists John Bobbitt" (fhe Observer, Hersh, 08/GYN, Georgetown reject patriarchal and individu­Feb. 8, 1994), Kirsten Dunne University Medical Center). alistic solutions to problems. presents a feminist rational Besides death, women de­Yet, with abortion, a woman which states that one cannot velop other complications after is forced to compromise her just assume the woman is al­an abortion. Among these are ability to give life to her chil­ways right without an investi­hemorrhaging, fever, pelvic in­dren to compete in a man's gation of facts. "Rushing to a fections, cervical lacerations, world. woman's protection without punctures of the uterus (Dr. due regard for the relevant Carol Everett, Former Feminism rejects the notion facts of a particular case is Abortionist, Texas ) breast that the responsibility of preg­highly discriminatory and un-. cancer (for a woman who nancy lies solely with the fair. aborts her first pregnancy in woman. Abortion caters to ir­
Discrimination against men the first trimester, Ewertz and responsible men, providing simply because of their gender Duffy, 't 988) and emotional them an easy way out. It comes is no less invidious than dis­trauma (Ann Speckhard, Ph.D., as no surprise that the Playboy crimination against any other Foundation is a major sup­group which is based solely on porter of abortion rights. some happenstance character­'she is thought of as Abortion liberates men, not istic, and I cannot support it". a part of the women. 
woman's body, even

If this same reasoning is ap­Last: "We, as pro-life femi­plied to the abortion issue, one though 50 percent of the nists, offer a return to the roots finds that abortion cannot be offeminism in this country. a
time, she might be a he.'

defended even by a feminist. feminism which is a loving, Abortion is inconsistent with nurturing response to any hu­feminist thought and does not man suffering ... be it the suffer­liberate women. ing of a woman, a man. or an American Rights Coalition). unborn child. We reject the vio­
First, lets consider some of Second, let's consider some of lence which is the world's way. the "relevant facts" concerning the "happenstance characteris­We believe that our nonvio­abortion. Roe v. Wade and its tics" of the unborn child. She is lence and our embracing of life companion decision, Doe v. young, vulnerable and disposed where we find it must extend to Bolton. made abortion legal all of easily. Even though she lives the entire human family. and nine months. inside the woman's body, she is beyond the narrow confines of 
State laws vary, but abortion, a unique individual, with her our biological families. We pro­in some states, is performed all own arms, legs, hands, feet, claim that we are homemakers nine months. There are 1.6 mil­etc. She can suck her thumb, -that the world is our home lion abortions each year, make a tiny fist, get hiccups and we make it -loving, nur­16,000 of these are performed and feel pain, but she can turing and pro-life" (1978, after 20 weeks (Center for legally be put to death. She is Preamble, Feminists for Life of Disease Control). thought of as a part of the America Resolutions). 
That is not to say that an woman's body even though abortion at eight weeks is not about 50 percent of the time, as bad as an abortion at 28 she might be a he. MAUREEN KRAMLICH weeks. This is simply a relevant Freshman fact which is often misun­Third, put aside Dunne's rea­Walsh Hall derstood. One of the two pa­soning. Consider abortion from tients that enter an abortion an entirely feminist stance. clinic usually come out alive. I Feminism is part of a larger 
DOONESBURY 
LAf?l/35 AND GCNT/..E.Mffl OF met093OF /NC:OM/3 7VM!?. '3£0­77-1£5. JURY, MYNAM& IS §TANUY aJMOV/31?. TH& 40-YfAR. LAW 5TAN'3PI/3W, ANf?I'M(I))N5&l­CAI<&I3< Ht-IQOUUJ HAV&HAf?15AT FO!<. AtetKr5lOCI.JMI t#l'3T117M!UIONl 7HINK OF IT' 7H& HOWt{)(){)W YOU Ft:&l.IF 50M80N/3 
R0!38f;f? YOU OF '1'/5 /11/UION OV&I< ON& toU5Y lrf!P·71!FM Gf?A[)fH 
-.....__,. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
7W500N.TOO6f}lt-1Y.' 500N/ BUTHOW ONlOTHO!£ fe&I...IN6S.' 
; o!U)tR! 
----...... 
''A merica-a country that ../"'\..has leapt from barbarism to decadence without touching civilization." -John O'Hara 






ACCENT 
Tuesday, February 22, 1994 
page 9 

From India to Michiana 
Afterperforming for crowds in India, Freeks ready for campus 
By STEVE TANKOVICH These tours included a visit Accent Writer to the Taj Mahal, a prayer ser­vice with Mother Teresa, and 
Wouldn't it be great to travel experiences at Hindu Temples. around the world with guitars, The third world study playing pickup concerts with experience was a challenge for whomever you meet along the all. way? There were many traumatic 
That's exactly what hap­moments, as people had to deal pened last semester for three with long airport waits, minor members of the campus band illnesses as well as strange cui­George and the Freeks, who sine. participated in the Saint Mary's Then there was the major Semester Around the World earthquake, which woke up Program with 25 other Notre several students, even though Dame and Saint Mary's stu­it was over 500 miles away. dents. Somehow the idea for the 
The three members of the concert was born. The Student band who went were Erik Body President asked the Goldschmidt, Doug McKenna, Freeks to help with the and Mark "Langers" Lang. fundraising activities. Although the band was not all "The natural response was, together during the semester, 'sure, we'll play a gig,' " World students Luke Anderson tune 'Don't Let me Down' andthey still felt the unity. McKenna said. The and Pete DeLucia. 500 Indian women yelled back"We had to leave George (the "Freekquake" concert was over The overall reaction to the 'We won't let you down!', " band's Stuffed alligator) and three hours long and raised concert was very positive, and said McKenna. 
several other Freeks, but the 5000 rupees, a considerable the Freeks have many new
spirit was still there," said Erik sum in Indian terms (about fans at Stella Maris College in After South India, the FreeksGoldschmidt, member of the $160). This concert also includ­Madras. "It was the single split up to hit Europe. Amongband/cult. ed the debut of Shannon Dunn, largest ego boost of my life, all three members of theThe semester included trav­the latest Freek, and an open­when we sang the Beatles' band/movement, gigs includedels though Japan, China, Hong ing by Semester Around the cities like London, Amsterdam, 
Kong, Singapore, Thailand, 
Paris, and Rome.
India, Nepal, and several 
"Dude, although the crowd
European countries. 
turnout was less in Europe
One of the first great than in south India, we still
opportunities for the Freeks 
had a blast," said Lang, the 
was their chance to play at the 
more spacey Freek. This
Great Wall of China. 
semester, except for Lang, who They typically would write 
is on leave of absence, the 
songs and practice along the band is back on campus.
way in airports and in hotel 
Since coming back to cam­
rooms. 
pus, the Freeks have reunited
The experience was more with other members: Bob
that just a musical sightseeing 
Purcell, Kurt Miller, J.P. Hurt
fantasy, though. It also was a 
and Andy Brenner. They have
great opportunity to share with 
been performing at the Grace
people from many different 
Coffeehouse and Dalloways at
cultures. 
Saint Mary's, as well as at the
The better part of the trip, 
Acoustic Cafe. 
about two and one-half months of it, was spent in India, study­
So, you Freeks have been
ing many subjects of the Indian 
around the world...what are
culture at Stella Maris College 
you going to do next? "Well, we
in Madras, and traveling to 
canceled our gig at Disney
dozens of cultural significant 
World, so I think we'll just sticksites. During the Indian leg of with the Grace Coffeehouse,"
the trip, living conditions var­Goldschmidt said. 
ied on a day to day basis, and 
"We invite everyone to come some of the tours were a test of 
out and 'freek-out' with us,"
stamina. 
Goldschmidt said. 


Victoria's Real Secret serves up 'Pasta' 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
Victoria's Real Secret's The Pasta Demo, an 'ode to the food they most commonly eat, reveals their variety of musical styles, influences, and moods. Beginning with the sublime love song, "It Depends" and, seven songs later, ending with what is probably the most well-known VRS song, "Fish" (which opened last year's Incubus 1993 CD), the band explores the realm of melody, harmony, rhythm, and noise. 
"We write honestly and do what makes us feel right," said Steve Sostak, the band's lead singer. "As soloists, we're not the best musicians, but the conglomeration of the five brings out our emotion. Working as a unit is definitely making the most of our talents." 
The wide base of music on Pasta can be traced back to the different influences each member brings into the band. 
"We have no major influence," Sostak said. "My lyric writing has a lot to do with Too Much Joy where they are silly on the surface, but serious underneath, we also get influence from the Blues, Buffalo Tom, and Rush, if you can combine that." 
Other members of Victoria's Real Secret include Chris Daly on guitar, Will Freve on bass, Ryan Hallford on guitar, and Marty Mennes playing drums. 
After an opening spot for They Might Be Giants in September of 1992 and their appearance on Incubus 1993, Sostak says VRS has gained a sort of "notoriety" and wants to move beyond the campus scene. 
"We're trying for gigs in Cleveland, Ann Arbor, Chicago, and some of the other large Midwestern cities. We're sending Past'a out to different clubs and trying to see if anything happens." 
Although Sostak likes all of the VRS songs on Pasta he was quick to name his two favorites. 
'"It Depends' is a love song, believe it or not," said Sostak of the first. 
"Proper PH," Sostak's other favorite "is me sitting in front of the TV getting pissed off at the material world. I'm bitching and trying to say that there are more important things than just looking good." 
Sostak's thoughtful vocals create a mel­low soundworld amidst fluttering guitar riffs in "Backwards," which features the lyrics, "Put my head on a street I'm screamingffouch my soul I am free." 
The opening bass groove on "Why Ask Why Ask Why" echoes the Red Hot Chili Peppers version of "Higher Ground."" The similarities end there as a palpable groove explodes at the core to release a blistering guitar solo. 
VRS gets raw on "The Green Iguana," as its primitive tribal rhythms give rise to spo­radic bursts of thrash almost suggesting' its own dance. Sostak's vocals and lyrics are straight out of the asylum, meshing per­fectly with the insane arrangement of the music. 
"Stained Glass Wind(}w" sounds like a madcap jam in between a melancholy Smashing Pumpkins and an excited Ned's Atomic Dustbin. "It's me writing to ND about my own personal search for faith," Sostak said. I'm looking internally because I feel a sort of spiritual helplessness." 
In order to get a copy of Pasta, ask one of the guys in the band. The magical musi­cal tour VRS takes on is not much of a mys­tery, but exactly what they set out to do: create honest music through a broad range of sounds. 
CULTURAL CORNER 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 22, 1994 


Byrdsong's antics shake up Wildcats 
By CLIFF EDWARDS 
Associated Press 
EVANSTON. Ill. 
Northwestern coach Ricky Byrdsong's leave of absence seems to have done him and his team a world of good. 
The Wildcats won two Big Ten games, and Byrdsong says he had something to do with it. 
"As I looked at my team I felt that it needed something," Byrdsong said Monday at a news conference. "I think the situation has shown how close they were all along. We not only had every player support­ing me, but every parent of ev­ery player.' 
Byrdsong took a leave Feb. 7 after his odd behavior during a game at Minnesota. He wan­dered into the stands to shake hands with fans and received a technical for walking out on the court to protest a call. 
The former Detroit Mercy coach, in his first season with the Wildcats, called his conduct as a motivational ploy for his players. But he forgot to tell his wife and she contacted the school in dismay when she saw her husband on television wan­dering the stands. 


Morgan, defense lead Irish over Cardinals 
pointers. Morgan converted four out of nine shots from be­hind the three point line and contributed well on the boards with eight rebounds, six of them offensive. 
Also contributing to the Irish win was a big game by Tootie Jones. who continues to quietly put together a strong season. The senior center from Moore, Oklahoma finished second on the team with 16 points, while pulling down four rebounds and blocking two shots. 
Point guard Kara Leary also continued to play well for the Irish, scoring seven points and dishing off six assists in playing all but one minute of the game. 
Another big factor in the Irish victory was defense. In holding the Cardinals to just 54 points in the game, the Irish also managed to keep leading scorer Jody Martin in check. The senior center was held to just eight points on 2-11 shoot­ing, while Louisville's other big threat, Kristin Mattox, was held to a mere six points on 1­11 shooting from the floor, including an 0-7 effort from three-point land. As a team, Louisville shot a dismal 29 per­cent from the field. 
Latasha Glanton led the way for the Cardinals, scoring 13 points on 6-11 shooting, while finishing with a game high four steals. Danya McGrath also played well, scoring 12 points in a losing effort. 
The next test for the Irish will come on Thursday, when the team faces Detroit Mercy. 


By DYLAN BARMMER 
Spans Writer 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team is back on track. 
The Irish rebounded from a sloppy homecourt loss last Thursday night, defeating Louisville by a score of 69-54 last night in the team's last non-conference game of the season. 
The win was definitely big for the Irish, who continue to play well on the road. The team, which is now 17-6 over­all, has an 8-2 record on the road this year, and continues to show that it is one of the most well-rounded teams that Notre Dame has fielded in the past few years. 
The Irish held Louisville to only 24 points in the first half, and outworked the taller Cardinal team on the boards, outrebounding Louisville by a 53-36 mark. The Irish had two players in double figures in re­bounding, with senior guard Sherri Orlosky leading the way with 13 boards and junior Leti­tia Bowen grabbing 10, includ­ing six off the offensive glass. 
This strong performance on the boards enabled the Irish to control the flow of the game, and it was once again fresh­man guard Beth Morgan who led the offensive assault. 
Morgan finished the night with yet another ho-hum 20+ point performance, amassing 21 total points, 12 of which came off four straight three 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepard. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

Tanya Harding Lost her Morals,  Need a Aide to Philly for Spring  Need tickets to NO/North Carolina  SUMMER JOBS -ALL  And now for my Marquette (road)  
NOTICES  Now she'll lose the Gold ... Nancy Kerrigan nearly lost her  Break? Call Susan @ 284-5308  game. Call: Margaret 273-5980  LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  warriors .... Thanks for the weekend. It was full of things that we'lllaugh  
knee,  Need Aide to Purdue this weekend.  Spring Break plane ticket to Boston.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  about in a few years ...ok..well . .it's  
USED TEXTBOOKS  But now she'll find the Gold.  Courtney 2470  REALLY CHEAP call alex x1679  LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­ pretty hysterical right now.  
Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard  8373  
233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun GOVERNMENT CAREER DAY  .___w.__~__T_E_D__~I ~~--F_o_R_RE__N_T__~  2 Alan Jackson tickets for sale for Sun Feb. 27 call 284-5252  4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to  -Mo and Staph ani blind as bats without their contacts. -Luke, Luke help me.  
Learn about careers with federal  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­ - adopt infant brother or sister. Close  -Kevin is definitely cheaper  
and state government. ALL STUDENTS WELCOME!  MENT-fisheries. Many earn $2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­ 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  PERSONAL  extended family in area. Let's help each other. Med/legal paid. Please  -Vomit, snot and beers. -Does he win the gold medal?  
Wednesday, February 23rd  $6000+/mo. on fishing vessels.  RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM:  call Jessica or Bob  -Steph, we shouldn't go on road  
CCE/ Lower Level  Many employers provide benefits.  $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO.  ADOPTION: Loving, financially  1-800-864-8385.  trips together anymore.  
Noon -4:00 p.m.  No exp. necessary! For more info  AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPER­ secure couple longs for a newborn  -Ditto.  
call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584  TIES 272-6306  to join our family. Please call Nancy  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  -Just look for the red door.  
Jimmy Stewart Fan Club  and Jerry 1-800-272-5810.  -1 love Zima.  
call x2000 to join  Need Spring Break Cash??  -This room smells like •ss.  
RIDE needed for 2 to St. Louis for  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ Meet you major nights  -Feed the gremlin.  
WOAD PROCESSING 256-6657  Spring Break. Call Christian @ 1226  ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153  for the College of Business  1% interest loans  -What is nougat?  
are as follows:  $10-$250  -Look for the pink pants.  
Jean Jean the Typing Machine is  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  -Joe Ross dunked three times. End  
BACK! Call 18858 for fast, friendly  Need ride to/from Baltimore area  SECURITY SYSTEM  Marketing 2117-6:00p.m.  Stop by the Morrissey Loan Fund  of story.  
on-campus service.  for 2-spring break. Will help w/gas,  ALL APPLIANCES  Management 2121 -6:00 p.m.  next to Info. Desk in Lafortune  -Let's say it one more time. We beat  
tolls.Call 634-28491!1  1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS  Finance 2122 -6:30 p.m.  Mon.-Fri. 11:30-12:30  Tom.  
ILOST&FOUNDI  AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­ 232 2595  Accounting 2122-7:30p.m.  Attention:  -Pass the Yucca. -What's booted?  
MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ +  PARTY TIME '94-95  All meetings will be in  *will be closed Fri., March 4  -The only dance I had fun at in high  
DID YOU LEAVE YOUR KEYS IN  TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl  Big 6 bedrm. Safe area. Free maid  122 Hayes-Healy  *last day for Seniors to borrow is  school was homecoming senior  
THE OBSERVER OFFICE? WE  (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  sevice. Beach V-ball & B. B. courts.  March 1  year.  
HAVE A KEY RING WITH 4 KEYS  ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING  Furnished. Washer & dryer.  College recommends declaration by  
ON IT WITH THE NUMBER 140  AND SUMMER SEASONS  273-0482 or 234-3831.  March 4.  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  Kev. Steph and Luke-I think the  
ON 2 OF THEM. COME BY THE  APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT  weekend speaks for itself and no  
OBSERVER & ASK FOR SHIRLEY  TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP!  Sponsored by Sophomore Class.  To Greg&Eiisa, Staph, Kev, Luke,  quotes will truly do it justice.  
TO PICK THEM UP.  CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ and Mike&Mo:  Marquette crew-sorry you lost, but  
ROOM NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT  THE PRINCETON REVIEW  Thanks for the memories! Here's a  thanks for the weekend!  
Lost  SCHOOL YEAR 2n3097  WANTS YOU!  few for you ....  
SUMMER JOBS/INTERNSHIPS ­ Do you have high test scores? Are  Love, Marten  
To the Person who took my !D's in  Average earnings $3,500.00.  3 BR, 2 Bath, Frplace, Full base­ you energetic/dynamic? Can you  Greg&Eiisa, you two are so sweet.  
Loftus: YOU DON'T LOOK LIKE  University Directories, the nation's  ment, 2 car garage, Walk to NO,  communicate well? Want a fun part­ I'll never forget my weekend with  
ME! And if you're not a cutie from  largest publisher of campus tele­ $900/mo. Evenings: 616-471-7172  time job? We're here on campus  the two of you. There's nothing like  The armipotent Mars of Lances the  
Wisconsin, you're putting the  phone directories, hires over 250  and have opportunities for part-time  spending 32 hours in the car for 25  almighty gave Hector a gift.  
Cheeseheads to shame! Please call  college students for their summer  SPRING BREAK TIME SHARE  teaching positions. Pay starts at $11  hours in New Orleans ...  
X3690 and will negotiate. I am  sales program. Top earnings  Orlando, Florida  an hour; no teaching experience  From the Anthropomorphic Tower  
going through Linebacker withdraw­ $5,000.00 -$6,500.00. Gain valu­ $700 ­ sleeps 8  required. Call  -Give me cheap plastic crap or give  Meet under the butt at 51  
al! Sincerely, Backer Packer Fan.  able experience in advertising,  bars, pools, lake  (800) 480-PREP for more informa­ me death.  Not another Miro!  
P.S. Maybe you should consider  sales and public relations selling  5 minutes from Disney  tion.  -If the backer was a city, it'd be New  I like the guy in the little suit!  
giving up your klepto urges for Lent!  yellow page advertising for your  call X2348 or X4508  Orleans at Mardi Gras.  I got a picture of some guy freak,not  
campus telephone directory.  Dear Rob­ -1 started getting it right and left  the Phantom.  
LOST: NDCiass Ring.  Positions also available in other uni­versity markets. Expense paid train­ FOR SALE  How clever are you my little detec­tive? I hope you can figure my  once I got on top of you. -Greg, can I hold your whopper?  How you tore your dress, what a CATASTROPHE!  
Engraved "Duke '95"  ing program in Chapel Hill, NC.  clues out... we'll just have to wait  -Is there a shuttle we can take?  Oh, I don't caret  
Lost on Feb. 7 at Campus View  Looking for enthusiastic, goal orient­ MACINTOSH CLASSIC II 4/80, 2  and see I suppose ....  -We're in hell!  Do we have your authorization to  
or D-6 parking lot.  ed students for challenging, well­ MB RAM (EXPANDABLE TO 10).  Love, Melanie  -Greg, are you long enough?  put on channel 1?  
Please contact x1939.  paying summer job. Internships may  LIKE NEW. $550. 2n-1463..  -The drive wasn't that bad.  Oh my God,it's the parietal police!  
Thanks.  be available. INTERVIEWS ON  -There's a huge ice storm and the  Let me explain:there were 2 people  
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25TH AT  1982 PONTIAC 6000, GOOD  MEG-good luck on those juries.  roads are all closed.  playing on the bed.  
Coat left in Career & Placement  THE CAREER PLANNING AND  COND., MANY NEW PARTS,  hey, at least it's not a physics test I  -She was eyeing me. She threw it  Theresa.are you OK?  
about 1 1/2 weeks ago. Call  PLACEMENT,HESBUAGH  POWER WINDOWS. MUST SEE  (grin) -anabel  right at me.  It seemed like the ideal plan!  
631-5200, ask for Katie.  LIBRARY.  TO APPRECIATE. $1300.  -Now that's a big beer.  Why does she have a pet monkey?  
273-5825.  -Maybe the third one's the charm.  
MARCIA POWERS IS COOLIIII  -That was the third one.  That is NOT K-Willl  
LOST: BROWN BARN JACKET 0 McCormick's Thur. nile with my  NEEDED: SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2  TICKETS  -Let's talk about how shitty life would be without me.  Hey-here is a classified that refers  
life in it...please return, no ???s  NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah,  -Let's go right and see where it  to Bill Dailey.  
MOLLY 273-6591  Poughkeepsie pref.  FOR SALE-2 b-ball tickets for  BERNICE, THANK YOU FOR 21  takes us.  
Will help$.  Wed's game vs UNCI Call Katy  GREAT YEAASIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIII  -Uh Greg. Your girlfriend's In the  Oh my my, oh h---yes.  
Please call Brian or Jason x1130  x3850  LOVE, BADIN HALL  back seat.  

Tuesday, February 22, 1994 
Swimming 
continued from page 16 
Janson has been very satis­fied with this disposition since it has not replaced Kelleher's focus on her sport. 
"Shannon is a hard worker," he said. "She does everything that is asked of her no matter how insane it seems. Not only does she do it, but she does it with effort." 
This determination began at the very beginning of the sea­son. Kelleher was injured and on the mend before her season even began. 
Kelleher broke her ankle jumping in puddles two weeks before the team began practic­ing. This did not stop her from getting back in the water with the rest of the team though. 
"It was hard to get back in, but I didn't want to miss any of the season. It really hurt so I was off to a slow start," Kelle­her said. "Starting behind, however, turned out to be an incentive to work." 
So Kelleher started working and never stopped. 
As of Saturday, Kelleher holds the school record in seven events. These events and times include 2:04.19 in the 200 meter freestyle, 5:25.71 in 
the 500 meter freestyle, 
11:09.39 in the 1000 meter freestyle and 18:45.70 meter freestyle. She is also a member of the relay team that hold the Saint Mary's records in the 400 meter medley relay, the 400 meter freestyle relay and the 800 meter freestyle relay. 
Kelleher has broken her own records in addition to other swimmers' this season. In all, she has been involved in break­ing eleven school records this year. 
Kelleher's intent was not to come onto the team as a star. In fact, she did not even know she was breaking records. Pressure was not a big problem for her, but it wasn't non-exis­tent either. 
"I am really only used to pressure that I put on myself," Kelleher said. "At National Catholic, the first meet of the season, I felt it from all direc­tions in the 1650 meter freestyle. As a result, I didn't swim well." 
Pressure let up, or maybe Kelleher adjusted and the sea­son got progressively better. She took on challenges that in­spired her whole team. Among these was swimming in events back to back. 
"In our meet against Calvin College, I had just fmished my best time in the 1000 meter freestyle and was in the cool 
The STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE is NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
for the 1994-95 academic year 
in all areas: Lafortune Building Managers Stepan Building Managers Lafortune Information Desk Ballroom Monitors Sound Technicians 24 Hour Lounge Monitors Games Room Attendants Irish Express Clerks Building Set Up Crew Office Assistants 
Applications are available at the Lafortune Information Desk & Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune. Deadline for applications is Friday, March 4. 
down pool when it was time for me to swim the 200 meter but­terfly," Kelleher said. "In the past swimming club -I just did the event to finish it-1 took a bath." 
Against Calvin College, Kelle­her swam her heart out. 
"I was doing it for the team, not myself. I swim much better for the team," she said. 
Kelleher is indeed a team player. 
"Shannon's performances have helped the team in many respects," Janson said. "They have made the team better in view of the public and in the view of the team itself. She has increased the team's confi­dence in their swimming. In the 800 meter freestyle, she raised the level of performance of the other swimmers, her back to back swims have been inspiring to her teammates and she always elevates her per­formance in relays." 
Kelleher really felt her team's unity when it travelled to Indianapolis to train for a week over Christmas break. 
"The work was a nightmare, but it has defmitely helped ev­eryone improve," Kelleher said. "In retrospect, it was fun. It really brought the team to­gether. We did everything to­gether, not just practiced. We lived and dealt with each other 24 hours a day and we really learned about each other. We are now kind of like a cult." 
Now that the season is over 
Kelleher is going to miss her 
teammates but she is seriously 
considering joining the Saint 
Mary's/Notre Dame club 
Lacrosse team after she takes 
some time off to get her act to­
gether. 
"Shannon has made signifi­
cant contributions to the team 
and has had fun doing it. I 
think this will be what keeps 
her going and improving in the 
future," Janson said. "She has 
been a real asset to our team 
and will be as ling as she's a 
part of it." 







GMAT GRE 
Improve your scores: 
LSAT --7.5 points 
GMAT--72 points 
MCAT--8 points 
GRE--214 points 
Our results have been verified by a Big Six accounting Firm. No other course can make that claim. 
CALL FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE COURSE NEAREST YOU 
COURSES START SOON· CALL NOW! 
PRINCETON 
REVIEW 
we score more 


(BOO) 480-PREP 
Ne~her Princeton University nor The Educalional Testing Service is affiliated with The Princeton Rwiew. 
2 Medium Pizzas 
Unlimited Toppings 


$1200 

BEST PIZZA DEAL IN TOWN! 
.­
CALL NOW!! 
Not to be combined with any other offer. Valid today through Sunday. 

Carry Out/ Delivery
273-3890 

Coughlin's departure shocks, angers BC 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

It was three years and out for Tom Coughlin, and the Boston College athletic director isn't happy about losing his football coach. 
"He did not fulfill his com­mitment to Boston College," BC's athletic director Chet Gladchuk said Monday after Coughlin left to become coach of the NFL's expansion Jack­sonville Jaguars. 
Despite Coughlin's departure, Gladchuk said the school will look to progress even further than last season's 9-3 record that included an upset of No. 1 Notre Dame. 
"He took a program that was struggling four years ago and he's taken it to another level," Gladchuk said. "The job's not done. That's the reason we're all as disappointed as we are." 
Gladchuk hopes to have a new coach approved by University President J. Donald Monan within four weeks. He declined to identify candidates under consideration, but said "there's something to be said for staying in house in terms of conti­nuity." 
Published reports say possible replacements include defensive back coach Randy Edsall, de­fensive coordinator Steve Sz­abo, Northeastern coach Barry Gallup and Boston University more, said "Unless they find force in BC's decision to expand coach Dan Allen. someone as good as Coughlin, its 32,500-seat stadium to 
Freshman defensive back we're screwed." 44,500 seats -a move that Marlo Tillman, said his team­Coughlin took over a team angered neighbors concerned mates are shocked. that had four consecutive losing about noise and traffic. 
"They're down," he said. "It's seasons under Jack Bicknell. going to be tough to fmd anoth­After going 4-7 his first season, "Coughlin started a mania," er Coughlin." Coughlin led the Eagles to an 8-said Patrieia Otis, chairwoman 
The Boston College campus 3-1 record in 1992 and 9-3 last of the 300-member Chestnut was quiet Monday because of season. Hill Association. "They had no the Presidents' Day holiday, but His biggest triumph came in a plans for expanding the sta­Coughlin's departure was the game that cost Notre Dame the dium until Coughlin arrived. talk of those left behind. national championship -a 41-This was all built around him." 
"BC hired him to do a job and 39 victory over the top-ranked She said she hopes his depar­I think he's pretty much done Irish last fall. It also helped ture will prompt the university his job and there's nothing earn the Eagles a place in the to reconsider the project, which wrong w'ith trying to better Carquest Bowl, which they won is already under way. himself," said Bob Hill, a cam­31-13 over Virginia. The Eagles "It might bring people to their pus police officer. "I don't think were ranked 13th in the final senses," she said. BC will falter." Associated Press poll. But Gladchuk said the college 
But Mark Williams, a sopho-Coughlin was also a leading would proceed with the project. 



Coming this Friday ... Bengal Bouts a special supplement to The Observer. 
Some employers promise you the world. We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Darne, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
175 LB. Kevin O'Rourke vs. Andy Greff Rob Naticchia vs. Bob Lalor 
180 LB. James Bailey vs. Mike Somerville Mike Mantey vs. Mike DeBiansi 
Matt Carr vs. Michael Curtis Kevin Monahan vs. Chad Harrison 


Toastmasters of Notre Dame 
Presents: 
"How to Stand Out In Your Interview" 
Using New Interviewing Techniques 
Conducted by Director of Business Communications: Professor James O'Rourke 
Tuesday, February 22 

7 p.m., 126 DeBartolo 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 

Subway has hot Italian subs. 
(You got a problem with that?) 
We're talking real hot Italian Subs here. Like the spicy Pizza Sub, heany 
Meatball, and Italian Steak. All smothered with Carm's Marinara-authentic sauce from a recipe by our founder's own mother! Six-inch Subs stan at only 


$1.69. 
.....---------------------------~----~--,---------~-~----------~-----. 

Tuesday, February 22, 1994 
Bouts 
continued from page 16 

become only the seventh four­time champion in Bengal's his­tory. 
The heavyweights will also fight for the first time, high­lighted by Matt Carr's first step toward a third title in his bout against Michael Curtis. 
"All the heavyweights are solid and there should be some good fights," said Carr. "I'm looking forward to the chance to fight but I'm also nervous because I know that there's pressure for me to repeat." 
Gerber and Carr should have no trouble advancing, as well as the rest of the favorites. But even fights like Cabreros/Couri litter the card and should keep the crowd on their toes. 
Hard-headed Rob Ganz meets favored Dan Schmidt in the first 150-pound semifinal. Both boxers have proven they are as good at taking punches as they are at throwing them. 
Schmidt had more trouble then he expected with John Kmetz in the quarterfmals and can expect to see a tough fight­er in Ganz. 
"I looked past Kmetz and he surprised me," said Schmidt. "Ganz is a tough fighter and he's going to come at me. It should be a tough fight." 
Another close bout should come from the second fight of the 155-pound class. Matt
Minutes from Campus Carbone is the favorite over
Expires: 3/10/94 

Eric Hillegas, but if the latter
SR 23/ Ironwood 

can get past Carbone's jab he could earn a spot in the finals.
20 Minute Bulbs • 36 Bulbs • 272-0312 
Winners of tonight's bouts '7he Castle, will earn a spot in Saturday's
Stereos • Facial Tanners • 
fmals which will be held at the
Because You 
Joyce Center Arena. 

Cooling Systems 
Deserve the Best" 


Forget to buy your Senior Formal Ticket? 
Here's your last chance. 
Tickets will be on sale Tonight from 6:00-9:00 p.m. in LeMons lobby at SMC and Thursday, February 24 from 6:00-9:00 p.m. at Theodore's in LaFortune. 
Tickets for the dance are $7000• Also, tickets for Second City are still available for $1200 per person and champagne glasses for $500 each. 






CAMPUS BANDS! 
-
March 25, 1994 Applications for this huge 
BATTLE OF THE BANDS 
are now available in 203 LaFortune Entries are limited so apply now! 
page 14 The Observer • NOTRE DAME TRACK Tuesday, February 22, 1994 

Best is yet to come from men's 4x400 relay team 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sporn Writer 
Can they really run faster? It was the first time they've run together all year? Wait till next time? 
According to Notre Dame track coach Joe Piane, the best is yet to come for the men's 4X400 relay team consisting of freshman Troy Langevine, se­nior football standout Dean Ly­tle, freshman football player Randy Kinder and sophomore Brian McQuade. The four men ran a school record 3:13.34 in Saturday's meet against Drake at Loftus. 
"It was a great race" said Pi­ane. "They can run faster, be­cause after the first two legs they were uncontested." 
It was the first time the team had run together this season. Assistant coach John Miller wanted to wait for Kinder and Lytle to get into track shape af­ter playing football during the fall. It was McQuade's first meet of the season because he had been injured. 
"It was time for Dean and Randy to run a quarter," ex­plained Piane. "They needed to be in running shape." 
Track 
continued from page 16 
19 years. "It's almost impossi­ble to score 103 points in a dual meet, but we did." 
"In a high level meet, all the kids might not get a chance to show their talent. Dual meets allow our kids to feel like they can contribute to the success of the team." 
Other winners for the men's team included sophomore Tom Mescall (triple jump and long jump), senior Todd Herman Oong jump), junior Nate Ruder (mile), freshman Dave Gerrity (pole vault), junior Shane Dubois (3,000 m) and sopho­more Mike Fleisch (shot put). 
Besides the winners, excellent performances were turned in by senior shot putter Brian Kubicki and senior Mike McWilliams in the mile. 
"We had some real fine per­formances," added Piane. "Our women would have won if not for the injuries." 
The women did manage to win three first places at the end of the meet. Junior Usa Junek won both the 55m hurdles (8.03) and 55m dash (7.43). Freshman Heidi Altman took 
ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 
WE'RE FIGHTII\G Fa< 'rOJR LIFE 

-
1C1 i!IIIWC1,: 12:31, 2:45, i:1i, 7:45, 11:11 1L111 CIBI(PC): 12:15,2:311, 5:11, 7•• 1:15 111fTIJ IIEI(PC1:1): 1:15, 4:1i, 1:45, 1:11 IY FAIB liE llllt?CI: 12:45, til, i•.7:11, 
11:11 
...1-..HI. ta.m,t45 
llllllY IIJlSIPI1:1): 2:15,4:45, 7..Ul 
"Everything just clicked and we ran well," said Kinder. "It was my first 400 since June be­cause of football. Being in good shape and working with coach Miller really helped my per­formance." 
Kinder's split time of 46.2 in the third leg allowed the Irish to pull away and win by almost 6 full seconds. 
Langevine, the leadoff man, started the Irish out on the right foot with a 49.00 split. Ly­tle followed with a 48.00 in the second leg to set up Kinder's heroics. McQuaid anchored the team with a 49.00 split. 
"This team could definitely make some noise in the IC4A meet," said Pian e. "They are more than qualified for the race and I look for some good things from these four." 
Langevine, a Scarborough, Ontario native has impressed Piane in his first year of track. "Troy has boundless potential and he's an excellent competi­tor." 
"I thought the race was awe­some," said Langevine. "I think I could have run a lot better. Next time, I'll probably run a different position and our time is going to go down. We broke 
first place in the triple jump and long jump, while junior 
Monica Cox  won  the  200m  
sprint (26.42).  
Freshman  Carolyn  Long  

placed second in the BOOm with a time of 2:12.50. Long's time took three seconds off her pre­vious best to reset the Irish in­door record. Long also an­chored the winning 4X400 Notre Dame relay. 
Other strong performances included sophomore Erica Pe­terson's two third places in the 55m hurdles and 55m dash. Cox also placed second in the 55m hurdles to give the Irish a sweep of the event. Junior Maureen Kelly took second in the 3000m. 
"The girls that are healthy are doing a wonderful job," said Pi­ane. "Our sprinters have been excellent and our distance run­ners have done a credible job." 
"It wasn't spectacular," added Peterson. "The juniors did re­ally well." Many of the women are looking forward to the outdoor season. The indoor the school record once and we'll keep breaking it as we run together more. 
Lytle, a 6'3" senior running back on the football team from Brevard, North Carolina, ran his first 400 of the year. 
"He did an excellent job con­sidering it was his first of the year. He will improve as he keeps running it," said Piane. 
Kinder, a running back from East Lansing, has exploded onto the track scene at Notre Dame by setting records in the 200m and by already qualifying for NCAA's in that event. 
"46.2 is the only comment I need to make about Randy," said Piane. "Only God knows how good he could be." 
McQuaid, who hails from Reno, Nevada, placed second in the men's 600m race earlier in the meet with a 1:19.55. He brought the Irish to victory in the final leg. 
"He's capable of running it," commented Piane. "It was a marvelous day for him since it was his first meet." 
The team looks forward to next weekend's invitational meet and securing another Notre Dame record. 
and outdoor seasons are com­parable, but some runners can excel outdoors more than in­side. Junek and Peterson have the opportunity to run events outside that they can't run at Loftus. 
"Our women can really do some damage outdoors," con­firmed Piane. 
Three women that the Irish have sorely missed the past month are senior All-America Sara Riley and freshmen Alison Howard and Emily Hood. All three are expected back for the outdoor season. 
The Alex Wilson Invitational at Loftus is the next hurdle for the Irish team before the presti­gious IC4A meet at Princeton University. The Wilson meet honors the former Notre Dame coach and will feature individ­ual performers from through­out the country. It will give the Irish a chance to get people qualified for the IC4A's. 
"We're looking forward to another outstanding meet next week," concluded Piane. 


The Observer/Eric Ruethling Randy Kinder and the men's 4 x 400 relay team set a school record last weekend by finishing in 3:13.34. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

~Qp,tq.nor Basket,ball Head ·commissidners Scott 
• John AlbrlghtOn, Molly lleen Quinn, 
Happy Birthday to 

Katie Kir-k 
the Masked Maniac of Badin Love, 217 and 218 
IRS. •rnRE{PG13): 4:15,7:15, 10:00 IY GIRlii(PG): 5:11, 7:30, 1:45 

.--------------~-·---~ ------·-----~-~----------~--------~------------­
Tuesday, February 22, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
) 
IN CASE '{OJ HAVEN'T NGnC£0, LOOK LIKE. SNooP'/ YEN, I'M A LITTLfo DIFFERfoNT $0 HE'Ll BE. WAN MO:>T ND MALES. !'I"\ PoPVLAR E.NOUt.H A 616 TALK.INE! RAT1 FOR TO E,ET A f.lRl: P6TE.'s SAK&. 
FRIEND V/ILBtJR. WANTS To 
BILL WATTERSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Hov.~ M\JC\1 I') 11-\PIT TIGE.R 11'1 1111:. Wll'\\XlW? \111:. ONt. \'.1~0 \)Ot.'> 1'\0n-11\'-IG \31JI Slt.EP :> 'tiELl SI'Rt.AO I-IlM OIJT Flt\1 IN 11-\E RK ROOM ANil 1-\f\'JE 1>. NEW RIJG IF liES C~E/>,P .'
--\J\T____ 



~ 2·22. &I 1994 Watlerson/0151 b~ Universal Press Syndicate 



FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 


ACROSS 28Actress 66 Driving hazard Sommer 68 Petruchio's
1 John Denver's 31 Shares mate"Christmas in 
36 Feared test 69 Shillelagh land 38 Troubles 10 1Oth-day-of­
6 "Tuna-Fishing" Christmas gift 
40Weaken 71 Swerve
painter 41 1955 Sinatra hit 1oAmong 72 Henna and 44lmprove
14"-Eyes" 
others (1969 song) 
45 Rig 73 Follow46 Shut off 

15 Actor Richard 47 Beachwear
16 Bounty rival 49 Relax DOWN17 Refinement 51 Audit
18 Witticisms 1 Blue-chip 
conductor, for symbol19 Vigor short 2 Lively dance 20 1950 Sinatra hit 52 Guy's date 3 Chihuahua 23 West Bank org. 54 Eternity 

change 24"Justa-" 56 1961 Sinatra hit 
4 Bar, in law 25 Three Strokes, 64 "Warm" 5 Compass part perhaps 65 Minnow eater 
6 Half begun? 7 Excited 8 Stucco backing 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Foot part 1 o Swear 11 Ryun' s run 



successor· 32 Goddess of 55 Run site 60 Pennsylvania
13 Niels Bohr, e.g. 21 The Man discord 56 Prepares the port 
61 Roadhouses

33 Raccoon kin pressesWithouta 
62 They go into

Country 34 Lawn tool 57 Plumber's 
locks 35 Is apparent 63 Relative of 
concern 
Justafraction ofwhat we spendon 

25 Propels a 58 Behind
371mpart Hindustani 
sportscan help keep society mshape.

gondola 59 Ale 67 Volte-face WNW 
39 Ditto 42Saw 
It's so easy to help your -, five hours of volunteer time

27 Bird "perched 
community, when you think per week the standard of 
43 Elevatedupon a bust of 

about it. giving in America.

Get answers to any three clues
Pallas" 48 Stood up 
Millions of people have G• FJ Get involved with the

by touch-tone phone: 1-900·420·
so Kind of switch 
helped make five percent J.Ve JVe. causes you care about 

30 Dramatist Rice 53 Distrustful 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
of their incomes and ll"hulyoulf<f~"'"'"''""''· and give five. 
-

..­
JJI\terested il'\ writil'\g1 photography, or comp!Aters? 
•

The Obse~ve~ IS lookiV\g for yo!.-\! 
.... 

News Spo....ts .AcceV\t Pt"od ~ctioV\ Photogt"aphy Sat"ah Dot"aV\ C\eot"ge Doht"maV\V\ Mat"}:' C\ood 3ackie Moset" Scott MeV\deV\hall 
631-5323 631-4543 631-4540 631-5303 631-5323 








SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, February 22, 1994 

Stellar Kelleher carries Belles to new heights 
By MARY GOOD mation of an extremely successful swim­1650 meter freestyle. Butterfly, how­Mary's because it is a fun outlet from Saint Mary's Sports Editor ming season for Saint Mary's freshman ever, has not been forgotten. Kelleher her rigorous academic schedule. Shannon Kelleher. Not too much, not swims 100 meter butterfly in the 400 "Swimming does not conflict with the 
The swimmers took their places on the too little. meter medley relay. nursing program," she said. "But I defi­blocks and focused for the swim. Kelleher has enjoyed a season marked "Shannon is the iron-woman on the nitely don't sleep as much as I used to." Shannon Kelleher by seven school records, a repetoire of team," coach Greg Janson said. "She You wouldn't detect a lack of rest, turned to her cheering various other physical achievements and can swim just about anything and she however, from her personality or perfor­teammates, smiled countless memories from practices, can swim it well." mance. and stuck out her training camp and home and away When Kelleher chose Saint Mary's she Kelleher is an asset not only to her tongue. She heard the meets. was mainly interested in its nursing pro­team's record, but also to its spirit. She gun, snapped her head Kelleher began swimming at age six in gram. She knew that the school did not maintains a light-hearted and laid back back and dove into the her hometown of Katonah, New York. hold national prestige as a swimming attitude in the face of competition, pool to swim the first "My older sister swam on a summer power, but this has turned out to be a according to Janson. leg of the 400 freestyle team," Kelleher said. "Everyone was in plus for the freshman swimmer. "Shannon tends to be laid back and relay. Four lengths the car so I went too." "Since Saint Mary's is a Division 3 one of the clowns on the team which in later her team had In the early years Kelleher swam but­school, no athletic scholarships are this case happens to be a good thing," broken a school terfly, but in high school she switched awarded," Kelleher explained. "This is Janson said. "This attitude helps keep record. her stroke to freestyle. This season, as a great because it keeps the competitive­the team loose and relaxed." 
This performance on Saturday at the collegiate swimmer, she has continued ness between swimmers low." Uberal Arts Invitational is a good sum-working hard in the 200, 500, 1000 and Kelleher enjoys swimming at Saint see SWIMMING I page II 

Rivals talk it up in Bengal Bouts 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 

Even though it's for charity, it is still heated competition. 
Notre Dame's Bengal Mission Bouts are nothing like the pro­fessional ranks, but the fighters may be closer than you think­at least in attitude. 
"Northern fighters are wimps," said 145-pound semi­DOHRMANN'S PICKS fmalist Butch Cabreros. "I don't 
BEST FIGHT 

know why they don't just come 
Butch Cabreros vs.

inside, throw some punches and give the fans their money's Dan Couri 
145-pound division
worth." 

Cabreros is one of the com­UPSET SPECIAL petitors in what could be the Eric Hillegas over best fight of today's semifinals 
Matt Carbone

at 7 p.m. under the lights at 
155-pound division

Stepan Center. The Texas na­
tive fights junior Dan Couri, who 
as well as being a big puncher Complete Pairings pg. 13 
and a skilled boxer, is also a to size up their competition dur­Northerner. 
ing the 24 fights on the card. 

"He is good, really good," said Seven boxers received byes inCouri, "but I'm not going to get the opening round and climbinto exchanging words. I think I into the ring for the first time
am prepared. We'll see what tonight. Among them, senior
happens." 

Jeff Gerber who is attempting to The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Joining Cabreros and Couri 
Chris Rosen, here ducking a punch in the quarterfinals from Tobin Biolchini, will take on Casey Pfeifer in
will be 46 other fighters waiting .... see BOUTS I page 13 today's semifinal. 

-


Men's Track Dean Lytle and the men's 4 x 400 relay squad set a school record in their event. 
see page 14 

Track team trounces Drake 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA front of a ton of parents." Sports Writer During the men's conquest of Drake, the Irish set three school records and took the 
If parents bring out the best in their chil­top two places in ten events. The major dren, the Notre Dame track and field team highlight was an outstanding men's mile should have their parents make a weekly relay turned in by freshman Troy Langevine, trip to South Bend and watch them compete. senior Dean Lytle, freshman Randy Kinder, 
In a dominating performance, the Notre and sophomore Brian McQuade. Dame men's team won every race except Other record breakers for the Irish includ­one in a 103-19 thrashing of Drake Uni­ed junior Joe Curran and sophomore Jeff versity. The injury depleted women's team Hojnacki. Curran ran 1:18.89 in the 600 ran valiantly, but lost 62-50 to Drake. The meter run, while Hojnacki provisionally meet is one of only two dual meets on the qualified for NCAA indoor championships Irish schedule, and it enabled 21 juniors to with a first place time of 1:49.72 in the 800 perform in front of their parents. meter run. 
"It was a fun meet, but I doubt it was fun "It was one of the best dual meet perfor­for Drake," said Notre Dame coach Joe mances I've ever seen," exclaimed Piane, Piane. "We wanted to stay at home for JPW who has been coaching at Notre Dame for so the parents could see their children run. 
see TRACK I page 14We got a lot out of the meet. It was great in 
Inside SPORTS 


Coughlin Leaves The Boston College coach upset school offi­cials with his decision to coach the NFL's Jacksonville Jaguars. see page 12 


Women's Hoops Beth Morgan and the Irish basketball team smoked Louisville last night, 69-54. 
see page 10 





