
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Breath test was key to Rita jurors' decision 

By EDWARD IMBUS News Writer 
Over three hundred people turned out early Saturday to participate in the second Lyons Hall Fun Run to raise money for the Mara Fox Memorial Scho­larship Fund. 
The Fun Run consisted of running approximately two miles around campus, begin­
ning and concluding at Lyons Hall. The first three runners finished the race in slightly over ten minutes. The bulk of other racers kept a slower pace, fin­ishing in fifteen to eighteen minutes. 
Mara Fox was a resident in Lyons Hall when she was hit and killed by a car on Novem­ber 12, 1993. The Run was in­tentionally scheduled on the anniversary of her death. In her memory, Lyons Hall and the 1993-1994 Freshman Class council founded a scholarship fund for a Lyons resident plan­ning to study abroad in Spain for a year, as Mara had planned to do, according to Run Co­chair Laura Merritt and Lyons Rectress Sister Kathleen Beatty. 
All scholarship funds at the Notre Dame, per University reg­ulations, must have $25,000 before their activation. 
The 1993 Fun Run raised close the $4,000 with 160 par­ticipants. Initial estimates for this year's Fun Run is $3,500, although that amount is ex­pected to grow as pledges promised are re-ceived, accord­ing to Beatty. Beatty hopes to see donations for the Fun Run grow to $4,000 or $5,000. 
Faulty printing 
weighs heavily 
in jury finding 
By DAVE TI'LER News Editor 
The St. Joseph County Supe­rior Court jury that acquitted Notre Dame law school gradu­ate John Rita of causing the death of eighteen year old freshman Mara Fox had doubts about the test of Rita's blood alcohol level, the jury foreman told the South Bend Tribune in an interview recently. 
"We considered, as serious an accident as it was, why wasn't there a blood test?" John Michels, 52, of Mishawaka said. 
"That was something that weighed on our minds," Michels said. "Why didn't they take another breath test to make sure it was correct?" 
Rita was charged with caus­ing the death of Fox while driving with a blood alcohol content of .10 percent or high­er, last November 13, based on the results of the alcohol test administered by State Police Trooper Kevin Kubsch. Under Indiana Law, a BAC of .1 0 percent or higher is considered intoxicated. 
After nine hours of deliberat­ing last Tuesday, the jury ac­quitted Rita of the drunken driving charge. the verdict has been generating a tremendous 
__.--amount of reaction throughout 
see RITA I page 4 

HOC: Holy Cross short-term solution 
By LIZ RANKIN News Writer 
Due to the closing of Augusta Hall, many of next year's Saint Mary's seniors have been con­sidering alternative, off-campus housing. 
Augusta is currently being leased from the Sisters of the Holy Cross and is being used by the college as a residence hall exclusive to seniors. How­ever at the end of this year, the lease on Augusta will expire, forcing the college to provide an immediate and alternative housing option for current ju­niors, who hoped to live in Au­gusta for their senior year. 
Many juniors are very upset about the closing of Augusta. "I think the college is going to lose a lot of seniors to off-cam­pus living, because Augusta will not be available. A lot of juniors are upset that they have lost the on campus alternative to more independent living," Junior Mary Udovich said. 
Throughout the past six months, the Housing Options Committee (HOC) has been working in conjunction with the Residence Hall Association (RHA) in order to resolve this problem. Throughout this time, several possible solutions have been discussed. 
The use of sections on either the second or third floors, or the entire fourth floor of Le­mans Hall were considered and dropped as possible alterna­tives, for various reasons. 
According to RHA President Jennifer Cherubini, the Housing Committee has come up with "the best short-term alter­native." They have decided to convert the entire fourth floor of Holy Cross into the new se­niors only housing facility. 
Currently, 64 seniors live in Augusta. The new arrange­ment in Holy Cross will provide for a similar amount of space. Depending on the popularity of this decision as a housing op­tion among seniors, the fourth floor will be able to accomodate fifty to seventy students. 
Several changes will be made to this section of Holy Cross. These changes will include converting the "Barn", a large room on the floor, into a study lounge. A television lounge will also be located on the floor. 
The rooms in the "T" section of the fourth floor will be con­verted into singles, as well as some of the smaller rooms in the Main section of the floor that are currently being used as doubles. 
"We wanted to model the fourth floor of Holy Cross after Augusta," Cherubini said. 
"Seniors have absolutely loved it. It's fun. It's wonder­ful. It's a way to live with your class," Senior Resident Advisor Kristina Berg said of Augusta. This is the feeling that the HOC wishes to preserve. 
They want to continue to en­courage on-campus living. 
In order to help to maintain the feeling of freedom and in­dependence that Augusta se­niors experience, all seniors who will live on the fourth floor, will also be provided with a twenty-four hour access key to the North door of Holy Cross. 
However~ the rules of the college will still apply to those seniors living of the fourth floor. Two resident advisors will live on the floor and help to maintain and enforce the rules, just as they are currently doing in Augusta. 
According to Cherubini, "The HOC feels that this is the best for the school and the stu­dents." They are optimistic about the success of this deci­sion as a short-term and im­mediate solution to the prob­lem. In addition, members of RHA anr;l the HOC are open to any suggestions by the stu­dents and wish to hear their in­put. 
In a continued effort to come up with a better long-term solution, this Tuesday, the HOC will meet to discuss some of the current student suggestions. 


The Observer/Rob Finch 
What do I see? 

Glenn Phillips and his band Toad the Wet Sprocket performed at Stepan Center last Thursday night. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, November 14, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN • WORLD AT AGLANCE 
GOP 

back on top, finally 
I really wanted to 

Andy Cabiness impress the sports 
Spons Copy Editor department with a bril­liant commentary about Saturday's game, but I can't find it in my heart to fill a page with Holtz-criticizing or Powlus-bashing, so I've decided to turn my attention to another current hot topic nation­ally-the recent Congressional elections. The predominantly liberal media has been attempting to fool the public into thinking that a majority of Americans are Democrats and that Democratic ideas are the best ones for the country. In 1992, they were very success­ful, leading Americans to elect a Democratic president and a Democratic majority in both houses of Congress. With no opposition in the lawmaking process, the liberal media was sure to see their favorite left-wing and social­ist programs passed. What went wrong? Well, thanks in part to popular conservative personalities like Rush Limbaugh, but thanks mostly to the shear unpopularity of what the Democrats were proposing, Congress and the President were unable to get their programs through. Thus the overwhelming turnaround in the elections last week. Now the Democrats, along with their media buddies, have been claiming that so many Republicans were elected because of dissatisfaction with how the Democrats operated Congress, not an endorsement of Republican ideas, like the Contract with America. I had also been fooled by the media into thinking that Republicans were in the minori­ty, but last week's elections led me to a differ­ent conclusion-we Republicans are every­where! In fact, you can't stop us, you can only hope to contain us. I wasn't even contained until 3:30 on election night, when sleep finally overcame the thrill of the political landslide. After the thrill of the victory wore off, I became even more excited about the socialist legislation that won't be seen in the next two years: 
• 
No health care reform-I'm not saying that the current system is perfect, but social­izing it and telling people what doctor's they can and can't see is not the answer. 

• 
No federal funding for abortion-allowing innocent babies to be killed is bad enough, but forcing people with morals to pay for it is going way too far. 


Some long overdue ideas that are finally going to get their day in Congress: 
• 
A balanced budget amendment-the peo­ple have been clamoring for this for years. Would you really trust a political party that doesn't want to be responsible for making a bunch of numbers add up to zero? 

• 
A line-item veto for the President-even Bill Clinton is for this one, yet the Democrats want no part of it. 


The Republicans have a responsibility to keep a lot of promises to the voters in the next couple of years; but if they can do it, the land­slide could carry them all the way to the White House in 1996. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
Lab Tech  
News  Dane Kramer  
Nancy Dunn  
Echan Hayward  Production  
Elizabeth Harnisch  
David Diaz  
Sports  
Finger Casey  Graphics  
Joe Villinski  Robert Bollman  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during n.am and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are r<Served. 
Fear of conflict resurgence increases in Bosnia 
SARAJEVO ~--------~rebel Bosnian Serb and rival government 
With winter approaching and the war in forces accepted a U.N.-brokered cease-fire Bosnia-Herzegovina intensifying, many which generally held. Bosnian Serbs, Sarajevans now fear their city will once again whose forces surround the city, agreed to be drawn into the conflict. Rocket-propelled open some roads to the city to limited grenades, apparently fired by the Serbs, set commercial traffic, so food supplies part of the already-battered Holiday Inn, tern-increased. A streetcar line reopened, and porary home of the U.S. Embassy and most without daily shelling, pedestrians strolled foreign journalists, ablaze on Sunday. Even along thoroughfares where they dared not when no shells are falling and snipers are venture a few weeks before. Last July, inactive, life in this once sophisticated and cos-however, Bosnian Serbs resumed restrict­mopolitan city is a tenuous existence of bleak ing land access to the city because of gov-monotony. Its estimated 300,000 inhabitants ernment attacks north of here. That virtu­cannot leave the city. Many of them are ally eliminated commercial traffic, making refugees without proper housing and jobs, sur-the city again dependent on humanitarian viving on the generosity of the international aid. This could worsen conditions in 
community. The effect of the war on the psy­ •Morethan2,000oxplosionsrocked  Sarajevo  as  winter  approaches.  
chology of the people has been devastating. In · Dobrinja, a front-line neighborhood near the  :;rc~;~.~u~l~a::v!1~:a'm!~Js~:~ BosanskaKrupoolsohadintenso  Throughout much of the country, the Muslim-led government army is on the  
airport, people spend their days loitering about  fightingandclvlllandeaths.  offensive. Those successes after years of  
their shell-shattered apartment houses. Their  Ra=~~~::g~~~s~~~~~1~{9  setbacks have boosted morale in the city.  
faces seem devoid of expression, and the  poweronwaglngwar.  Government success on the battlefield is  
streets lack the bustle and chatter so common  •ThaU.S.Thursdaysalditwillstop  for Sarajevans a  double-edged sword.  
before the war. Nine months ago, it appeared the city would finally emerge from the dark  entorclngaU.N.armsembargolhathas been In place since 1991. Other nationswlllcontlnuethabonon  Bosnian Serb forces have in the pastd d b respon e to government moves y  
night of suffering, deprivation and death in which it had been languishing since the war  selllnganns,buttheU.S.claimslheembargo unfairly cripples Muslims.  increasing pressure on SaraJ·evo and other cities, either by pounding them with  
broke out in April 1922. Under the threat of  AP  artillery, or severely restricting deliveries  
NATO air strikes if heavy weapons were used,  of food and other supplies.  

Irish government in jeopardyTrial set for tourist murder suspect 
DUBLIN 

MONTICELLO, Fla. 
The coalition government that promoted peace in 
A 17-year-old charged with shooting an English tourist Northern Ireland is on the brink of collapse in a dispute
to death during a botched robbery will be the first of two over the appointment of a conservative to the High Court. 
teen-agers to go on trial in the slaying. Jury selection was The Labor Party, a coalition partner, demanded Sunday
to begin Monday for John Crumitie, who is charged in the 
that Prime Minister Albert Reynolds explain the 
Sept. 14, 1993, death of Gary Colley at a highway rest 
appointee's handling of an extradition request for a 
stop 35 miles east of Tallahassee. The slaying attracted priest accused of child sexual abuse. If Labor withdraws 
worldwide attention, damaged Florida's tourism industry from the coalition with Reynolds' Fianna Fail party, itand prompted lawmakers to beef up the state's juvenile could force an early election, or Labor could try to form a 
·ustice system. Colley, 34, was the ninth foreign visitor government with another party. Fianna Fail, the largest
killed in Florida in a year. Colley and Margaret Jagger party in Parliament, might lead a minority government. 
were headed from New Orleans to southern Florida when The government crisis has alarmed Sinn Fein, the politi­
they stopped at the Interstate 10 rest area outside 
cal party allied with the Irish Republican Army. Reynolds 
Monticello. Jagger, 36, was wounded. If convicted of has prodded Britain to move faster in the peace process.
murder and attempted murder, Crumitie could face the but Labor Party leader Dick Spring has taken a harder 
electric chair. In August, he rejected an agreement that line toward the IRA. The crisis also has bared the politi­
would have sent him to prison for 40 years for pleading cal tensions boiling beneath the pride and relief inspired 
guilty to second-degree murder and attempted murder. 
by the government's efforts to bring about the IRA cease­fire declared on Sept. 1. The extradition request last year from Northern Ireland for a child abuser was handled by
Algerian Airliner Hijacked 

Attorney General Harry Whelehan, whose appointment as president of the High Court was strongly opposed by PALMA DE MALLORCA, Spain 
Spring. Spring has questioned the integrity and the 
Three hijackers who forced an Algerian airliner to land accountability of the government.
in Spain and threatened to blow it up with 35 people aboard surrendered Sunday after an eight-hour standoff. Their bomb turned out to be a box containing a coffee 
Bluffton Man Killed in Plane Crash 
grinder, airport director Pedor Meaurio said. The Air Algerie Fokker-27 turboprop plane was flying from PORTLAND, Ind. 
Algiers to the southern Algerian city of Uargla when it A Bluffton man was killed after the small plane he was 
was diverted to this Spanish island in the Mediterranean, trying to land dropped 50 feet and exploded along a run­
Meaurio said. They had demanded that Algeria's mili­way at the Portland Municipal Airport, authorities said. 
tary-installed government release political prisoners and Portland police identified the man killed Saturday as 
hold elections-demands similar to those of anti-govern­Ralph Smith, 67. Smith was returning from a morningment Islamic guerrillas. Algeria's ambassador to Spain, take off when his 15-foot long, home-built plane made of 
Rahabi Abdelaziz, said Algeria would not try to extradite wood and fabric crashed around 11:45 a.m., authorities 
the men, because it has no extradition treaty with Spain. 
said.. Portland police, State Police and the Jay County
News reports said the men asked for political asylum as a 
Sheriffs Department investigated the crash. Federal 
condition for surrendering. The hijackers, all young men, Aviation Administration officials from Indianapolis were 
entered the airplane's cockpit 15 minutes into the flight also at the scene. It was the first crash fatality at the air­
and demanded it leave its course, authorities said. The port in 49 years of operation.
pilot suggested Mallorca as a destination. 

• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 14. 
Monday, Nov. 14 Accu-Weather • forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
OHIO
IIndianapoliS! 64° I 
ILL 
• 


FRONTS: 
....,......... ....a....a... ....-ar 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta  73  48  Dallas  72  58  New Orleans 74  63  
Baltimore 73  41  Denver  53  37  New York  62  47  
Boston  57  44  Los Angeles 67  48  Philadelphia 68  47  
Chicago  65  52  Miami  79  72  Phoenix  64  47  
Columbus 71  42  Minneapolis 58  50  

Monday, November 14, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS 

Advisory councils announced 
Special to The Observer 

New members of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame's nine advi­sory councils have been an­nounced by Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., the University's president. 
College of Arts and Letters: Cordelia Chavez Candelaria, professor of English, Arizona State University, Tempe, Ariz.; Robert Greco, president, Greco & Co., Spokane, Wash.: Jane Swihart Hagale, cellist, Hous­ton; Paul Kimball, managing director, Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc., New York City; Lisa Marie Porche-Burke, chancellor, Cali­fornia School of Professional Psychology, Alhambra, Calif.; and Mark Shields, syndicated columnist, Washington, D.C. 
College of Science: John Au­ton, chairman and chief execu­tive officer, Ghirardelli Choco­late Co., San Leonardo, Calif.; Dr. Charles Aquilina, physician, Shavertown, Pa.; Dr. William Hurd, opthomalogist/physician, Germantown, Tenn.; and Robert Lumpkins, Jr., senior vice president and chief finan­cial officer, Cargill, Inc., Min­neapolis. 
College of Engineering: Don­ald Dorini, president, BRDG­TNDR Corporation, Fort Laud­erdale, Fla.; William Mensch, Jr., president and chief execu­tive officer, Western Design Center, Inc., Mesa, Ariz., Roger Regelbrugge, president and chief executive officer, Georgetown Industries, Inc., Charlotte, N.C.; and Shawn Tilson, vice chairman, The Manson Group, Mississagua, Ontario, Canada, 
College of Business Adminis­tration: James Dowdle, execu­tive vice president, Tribune Media Operations, Chicago; David Duerson, senior vice president and senior partner, Chestnut Hill International, Deerfield, Ill.; William Goodyear, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer, Bank of America, Chicago; and Michael Hammes, president, Society National Bank, Indiana, South Bend, Ind. 
Notre Dame Law School: Paul Polking, executive vice president and general counsel, Nations Bank Corporation, Charlotte, N.C. 
University Libraries: Boyd George, chairman and chief ex­ecutive officer. Alex Lee, Inc., Hickory, N.C.; John Jackoboice, Sr., vice president, Monarch Hydraulics, Inc., Grand Rapids, Mich.; Marilyn Pastore, Winchester, Mass.; and Thomas Wamser, president, Beck Carton Corp., Milwaukee. 

Snite Museum of Art: Kath­leen Watson, San Antonio, Texas. 
Institute of Church Life: An­thony Brenninkymeyer, chief executive officer, Cambrian Services, and Irmgord Bren­ninkmeyer, New York City; John Hogan, associate direc­tor/international operations, Peace Corps, and Mary Jo Hogan, Washington, D.C.; and Gilberto Marxuach, managing partner, Marxuach, S.E.-Gen­eral Contractor, and Marita Marxuach, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
Graduate Studies and Re­search: Francis Doyle, execu­tive vice president, -corporate relations, General Electric Co., Fairfield, Conn.; Robert Ham­burger, chairman, H&M Part­ners Limited, London; Franklin Krumreidentand chief execu­tive officer, Golden Cat Corp., South Bend, Ind.; John Schaefer, executive vice presi­dent and director of corporate finance, Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., New York City; and Eu­gene Trani, president, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, Va. 

Service with a smile 
The Observer StaH Photo 

A Huddle worker gets ready to grill some hamburgers. 
MTV's 'Real World' star, AIDS activist dies at 22 
By KAREN TEST A 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Pedro Zamora, who got the AIDS virus as a teen-ager and dedicated his life to educating the public about the disease, died early today. He was 22. 
Zamora, who was featured on MTV's video verite "The Real World," died at Mercy Hospital made a television commercial with relatives at his bedside. about AIDS for the national 
Zamora learned he had HIV, Centers for Disease Control. the virus that causes AIDS, when he was 17. A gifted "Knowing that I could die has speaker, he went on a lecture been scary," he said in the ad. tour, telling audiences at high "But what's even worse is schools and other organizations knowing that my friends didn't that he was infected through learn a thing from all this. unprotected sex. They're still doing what I did 
He testified at congressional that got me infected." hearings, gave interviews and "Pedro is a one-of-a-kind person," his companion, Sean Sasser, said recently. "I don't think I'll be as lucky again." 

=-­-­-­-­-­--­ 
--­--­---­-­---­--­-­----­-­--­---­----­-----­-­-­-­-= -The Investment Banking Firm of MORGAN STANLEY cordially invites Notre Dame Seniors of ALL MAJORS to a presentation regarding Opportunities in Investment Banking Thursday, November 17, 1994 at the University Club 7:00p.m. Alumni will be present to discuss The Financial Analyst Program Please contact Career & Placement for additional information  

Zamora appeared this year in MTV's "Real World," in which ordinary young people are cho­sen to live together in a house while camera crews film them up to 20 hours a day. The film is edited to show how people deal with their problems. 
His housemates had been told before filming started that one of their group had the AIDS virus, but they didn't learn which one until Zamora told them. He said they took it well, but he had to educate them that they couldn't get AIDS by using the same bathroom or drinking from the same glass. 
"With incredible courage and honesty, Pedro shared his life with millions on 'The Real World,"' said Doug Herzog, MTV executive vice president. 
"We know through letters and calls that his life story has educated and inspired count­less numbers of people," he said in a statement. 
More recently, Zamora devel­oped a severe neurological dis­order, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy or PML, found in about 5 percent of people with AIDS. 
Since taking ill in recent weeks, Zamora was reunited with three brothers and a sister he had left behind in Cuba when he came here at age 8 in the Marie! boatlift. They flew to Miami to be with him. He was one of seven children. 
"I'd like to say I am not afraid, but that's not so," Zamora once said. "I don't fear death itself, because death is something very natural. What I fear is the process of illness, the preamble for which we're not prepared." 
He was on the board of the AIDS Action Council, a lobbying group for legislation, research and funding, and was a mem­ber of Gov. Lawton Chiles' panel on AIDS. Chiles today hailed Zamora's work and said his death "reminds us that we have much more work to do." 
During a congressional hear­ing July 12, Zamora pleaded for frank and explicit prevention programs aimed at young peo­ple. 

HAPIJY 21ST' 
MARCO! 
Keep Free-stylin' I 
Have the Best Year Ever! 
GO ND TENNIS! 
Love, Morn, Dad, Michael & Matthew 
---~-~-----------~­
page 4 Monday, November 14, 1994
The Observer • NEWS 

ball game. Michels said Kubsch's state­Elizabeth Hanstra 29, of wished they could have heard Defense attorney Charles ment that Rita's test was South Bend, thought the jury the 911 tape of Rita;'s friend
Rita Asher questioned the validity of unique in the over 500 tests the performed well. " We wanted to calling Mishawaka police from 
Rita's breath test. The machine officer had given was a factor do the best job we could, and a Steak n' Shake restaurant on 
continued from page 1 
the test was administered on at that troubled the jury as well. we tried to do it. We worked re­Grape Road. That call was the county jail, called an lntox­And, the jurors couldn't under­ally hard and made a good de­placed about and hour and a
the Notre Dame and South 
ilizer, issued a printout that stand why Kubsch didn't cision," said Hanstra. half after the crash. 
Bend communities. 
contained several strike-overs administer the test again. Two issues caused the jurors The alternate juror did notRita was also charged with and was out of alignment. The The jury took its job serious­to deadlock on the charge of share his colleagues view of the leaving the scene of an acci­
result that Trooper Kubsch saw ly, according Michels. "We have leaving the scene of an acci­judgment.
dent. The jury deadlocked on on the machine's screen, .14 guidelines to follow and in­dent, Michels said. He declined ''I'm very dissatisfied with the 
that charge, causing Judge 
percent blood alcohol level, ap­structions from the court, and to reveal how the jurors voted. verdict. Mike Barnes put inWilliam Albright to declare a peared correctly on the print­there was a lot more involved Michels said some jurors felt enough facts to remove anymistrial on that charge. 
out. in this than just going down the Rita did not know he struck a shadow of a doubt. Rita shouldFox, of Oakton, Virginia, and "We looked at the reports of road," Michels said. person and therefore did not have been found guilty," the al­four friends were walking back 
Kubsch and the police. We When Rita took the stand, "I know he left the scene of an ternate said. 
to campus along Douglas Road weighed the testimony and we thought he was pretty sincere," accident. Other jurors appar­He said he found it frustrat­when she was struck from the took into consideration that on Michels said. Others on the jury ently thought Rita's story that ing to sit and listen to other rear by Rita's car, which did the printout there were not ac­had different opinions. he didn't know he hit a person jurors, without contributing.
not stop. The group had called tual typographical errors in the An alternate juror, who re­until four hours later when he Indiana law restricts discussion a cab, but decided to give up testing part," said Michels. quested that his name not be learned so from police, was by alternates, but requireswaiting and walk. 
Michels said the jury also printed, said he thought Rita suspect. them to sit through delibera­
During the more than two 

weighed the testimony of Dr. was lying. Rita's courtroom tes­The jury also had problems tions.
week long trial, the jury heard Walter Frajola who talked timony did not match his video­interpreting the meaning of the "I just smoked and read Na­hours of testimony about the al­about the reliability of breath taped statements from the word "immediately" as defined tional Geographies," he said. 
cohol test police gave to the test machines like the night of the crash, he said. by Indiana law. The jurors "I hope Barnes will bring him twenty five year old Rita, of Intoxilizer. Frajola testified that "I can see now how a lot of asked Judge Albright for clarifi­back and retry him," said the
Springfield, Virginia, three 
a blood test is the best way to things can get lost if you don't cation during their delibera­alternate.
hours after the accident. Police 
measure blood alcohol levels. know the truth," said juror tions. Michels said the panel
found Rita asleep in his Univer­"We had some doubts. Many Mary Shines of South Bend, 37. wished to know whether the The South Bend Tribune con­sity Park apartment only after a wondered, 'Why not do it "You have to be there and hear word "immediately" applied to tributed to this report. 
call by some of Rita's guests, 
again?' It was very simple. It what we did and see the evi­stopping at the scene of an ac­
who were visiting him for the 
preyed on our minds and left dence. I think we made the cident, or returning to it. 
Notre Dame-Florida State foot-
some doubt," Michels said. right decision." Michels also said the jurors 
Militants use walls 
Celebrate a friend's birthday 
to boast about killings 
with a special Observer ad 
By NEIL MacFARQUHAR end we will consider the au­Associated Press thority part of the Israeli occu­pation," said Abu Mahmoud, GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip an Islamic Jihad activist who The freshly whitewashed said he was wanted by the 
walls that were the hallmark of police.
Yasser Ararat's new adminis­Frustration with the lack of tration have given way to even tangible change from the peace fresher paint proclaiming holy process feeds support for the war against Israel. Islamic groups. 
"We are the sons of the Is­While Israeli forces left Gaza 
lamic Holy War," red paint left towns in May when autonomyby militants screams, boasting started, they still control the 
of the latest suicide bombing main highways used by 4,000 that left three Israeli officers Jewish settlers. Gazans need dead. "We explode the heads an Israeli permit to get out of 
of the Jews and travel on them the Strip. That is one reason to paradise." the Friday attack at a keyWorried that such attacks crossroads by the suicide bicy­will sink the peace process. the clist was popular.
Palestinian National Authority "Our brother did not do this is escalating its confrontation against kids or old people. He with Muslim activists. did it against soldiers. That is "The Palestinians are threat­not terrorism. Our Koran saysened with destruction from the Israeli occupation of this within this time," said Gaza land must end," said Marwan psychiatrist Dr. Eyad Sarraj. Hamad, the bomber's 38-year­
At least 160 Islamic activists old brother. have been jailed since Friday, Growing poverty is the other and the leaders of the Islamic main source of discontent. lloly War organization, or Is­Unemployment skyrocketedlamic Jihad. are in hiding. after Israel closed its frontier 
Palestinian police searching for to Palestinian workers due to activists reportedly met with escalating attacks claimed bygunfire in one neighborhood. Islamic activists, including a 
The government also moved Tel Aviv bus bombing last to prevent a repeat of the huge month that killed 23 people. outpouring for Islamic activist Also, none of the investment 
Bani Abed, whose Nov. 2 car expected to transform the im­bomb death was widely blamed poverished strip has material­
IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
on Israel. ized, although towers with Mourners chased Arafat from apartments at more than Abed's funeral. At later rallies, $100,000 are shooting up near 
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS 
activists fired their guns in the the shore. air while men covered in white "We used to hear that it 
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. 
sheets, marking their desire to would be the new Hong Kong, 
carry out suicide operations, but there has not been one sin­marched among throngs of gle project. Even most of the Can't afford to save for retirement? Even ifyou're not counting the years to chanting admirers. new white paint ran off the 1 The truth is, you can't afford not to. retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF 
"They are crossing the red walls with the first rain," said to; Not when you realize that your retirement to help you build the future you deserve­
line by these demonstrations, Gaza worker Nasser Mo-:~ 
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
with M-16 rifles, the Kalash­hammed, 24. J 
to live at least as comfortably then as you annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvest­
nikovs, this Iranian style," PLO Construction workers who ]
Justice Minister Freih Abu do now. And that takes planning. ment choices, and a record ofpersonal
enter Israel fume at the humil-~ Medein said Sunday on Israel iations suffered at the Erez ~ By starting to save now, you can take service that spans 75 years. television. Crossing. This week they were ~ advantage of tax-deferral and give your Over a million people in education and 
The government now is try­turned away because they ~ money time to compound and grow. research put TIAA-CREF at the top of ing to outlaw political rallies. 
lacked cholera vaccinations, a ~ Consider this: set aside just $wo each their list for retirement planning. Why not 
And police interred the body of new requirement due to an ·Sli 
month beginning at age 30 and you can join them?
suicide bomber Hisham outbreak of the disease, but ~ 
accumulate over $154,031* by the time Call today and learn how simple it is 
Hamad, 21, at night without in­~ 
one they learned of only when -~ 
forming his family. you reach age 65. But wait ten years and to build a secure tomorrow when you
they arrived for work at 3 a.m. ~ At the wake, friends and Is­One worker said that the -.:: you'll have to budget $211 each month have time and TIAA-CREF working on lamic Jihad supporters warned guards sneered at him, "Why 1 to reach the same goal. your side. 
that a showdown was don't you go get a permit from ~ inevitable if the government Stllrtplanmlf!Jyourfotu~. Cllllour EnroUment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.
Islamic Jihad?" ~ tried to block attacks against Such exchanges only boost ~ Israeli targets. the credibility of the Islamic or-j"If our differences of opinion ganizations, Palestinians say, 
75 years ofensuring the future 
with the Palestinian National as the only ones standing up to ~ for those who shape it!MAuthority leads to a showdown Israel. Few expect the arrests g and it arrests or kills us, in the will stop the attacks. 


•Auuming an intuut rotof6.50% rrfJiltJto TIAA Rttirfmtnl Annuiliu. Tbi.r ro/r i.r UJrhokly to Jbo••tbr pow<r anJ r//trl of rompounJin_9. Lo•~r or bighrr rota wou/J proJucr vrry Jiflmnl rfJUUJ. CREF urti/u:atu ar.r Ji.rtributtJ by TIAA-CREF lnJiviJUJll anJ ln.rtilu/wMI Suvicu. 


-~---------~~~ ~---~·-----------~----­
Monday, November 14, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Activist challenges banks 
By KAREN GULLO 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

In a drafty storefront office on a street lined with boarded­up buildings and empty lots, one of the biggest critics of New York bankers studies loan data and plots his next attack. 
Over the past six months, South Bronx community activist Matthew Lee has single-hand­edly extracted $50 million in loan commitments for poor res­idents from several large New York banks. 
Lee's group, Inner City Press­Community On the Move, has filed fair-lending complaints with regulators against the banks while they seek approval from the government to expand through mergers. 
Using the banks' own records to prove his point, Lee contends the institutions skirt the South Bronx and make few loans to the area's blacks and Hispan-· ics, which would violate fair­lending laws. 
Most banks pulled up stakes in the South Bronx years ago because of low profits and high crime. Lee keeps his own im­portant papers and his laptop computer in a giant safe behind his desk. 
Banks need a clean lending record to win regulatory ap­proval for mergers, so Lee's strategy has proven effective. 
Although all denied "redlin­ing" in the South Bronx, Bank Of New York agreed to lend $5 million there; Republic National Bank, Marine Midland Bank and First Fidelity Bank agreed to lend $15 million each; and National Westminster Bank promised to open a branch in the neighborhood next year. 
Bankers loathe Lee but reluc­tantly admit they respect him, too, said Warren Traiger, a banking lawyer and legal ad­viser to the New York banking department on fair-lending matters. 
"They know their applica­tions can be held up by protests which they don't consider legit­imate, but that's the way the game is played," Traiger said. 
Lee, 29, a third-year law stu­dent and a South Bronx resi­dent, recently took on two of the city's largest and most pow-

A..fi SEEN IAS'f APRIL ON CBS NEWS "48 HOURS" 
erful banks, Dime Bancorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. 
Lee accused both of discrimi­nation in filings with bank regulators last week. Dime and Chase deny they skirt the Bronx. 
The Office of Thrift Supervi­sion granted Lee's request to hold hearings about Dime's lending record, which could delay the bank's planned merg­er with Anchor Bancorp Inc. 
Inner City Press asked the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates na­tional banks, to extend the pub-, lie comment period on Chase's plan to merge its Connecticut bank into its New York opera­tions. 
The OCC extended the period by a week so Inner City Press, originally a newspaper for the homeless and squatters, could submit more detailed com­plaints. 
Lee said that although many banks have improved their ef­forts to make loans to poor people, most violate fair-lend­ing laws by not marketing products or locating branches in low-income neighborhoods. 

Lawyer: Courts lack minorities 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
A lawyer wants to change the way Ohioans select local judges to assure the election of more minorities. 
"The Voting Rights Act is de­signed to protect minority vot­ers, not minority lawyers," said Thomas Atkins, an attorney who filed a class action lawsuit in Cleveland last month. 
Atkins says white voters usu­ally defeat candidates preferred by blacks and other minorities, a practice that violates the Vot­ing Rights Act. 
Ohio courts are typical in their lack of minority judges, according to a survey conduct­ed by The Cincinnati Enquirer for a story published Sunday. 
The newspaper found that Louisville, Ky., Nashville, Tenn., Indianapolis, Milwaukee and 

If you see news happening, call The Observer 
~· 


~UJm~IDJ1IT8 
hot dogs $1 4 cups ofyourfavorite beverage $250 
\lYiliD!1Il~IDJ1)Jg 
QED Band 
~IllUJlli~l])j})Jg 
Foreign Beverages $125 
IFIBI1IDJ1)Jg 
Sausage Sandwich $175 & other specials 
~j}~UJllilJ.)j})Jg 
Free Munchies for the Game! Saturday Night-Little Milton Band 
. ' 

Kansas City, Mo., also have dis­proportionately fewer minority judges when measured against the communities they serve. 
''I'm not sure anybody is do­ing it particularly well," Atkins said. 
There is no shortage of quali­fied black lawyers, said Jacque­line Berrien, assistant counsel at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund in New York. But few are willing to challenge large majorities of white voters. 
Targets of Atkins' lawsuit are five appellate courts, eight common pleas and seven mu­nicipal courts in Hamilton, Cuyahoga, Montgomery, Lucas, Franklin, Mahoning, Stark and Summit counties. 
The counties could be redis­tricted with minimal fuss if the defendants -the state, gover-
Dole drops in on Iowa as GOP readies for '96 
By MIKE GLOVER 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES 

Bob Dole is a man in a hurry these days, but he was content to cool his heels for half an hour to share a podi­um with 


Iowa's Republican Gov. Terry Branstad. 
"I think there will be a num­ber of people dropping into Iowa between now and Jan­uary," the Senate Republican leader cracked as he milled around an airport lobby wait­ing for Branstad. 
"Judging from my phone calls, yes, there will be," Branstad said when he arrived. 
With the passing of the midterm elections, Republicans wasted no time turning to the next campaign -the fight for the nomination to oppose President Clinton in 1996. 
Iowa's precinct caucuses, the first stop in that pursuit, are still 15 months away, but the chase took on new urgency in the Republican landslide, which many saw as a sign of Clinton's vulnerability. 
"The value of the Republican nomination for president just went up," veteran Iowa Repub­lican operative David Oman said Thursday. "That caucus effort starts very quickly." 
The swing by Dole, from neighboring Kansas, came just two days after the election. Sens. Phil Gramm of Texas and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania were hard on his heels. 
Gramm was already in Iowa on Friday, and on Sunday he said he would file candidacy papers with the Federal Election Commission this week. Appearing on NBC's "Meet the Press," Gramm also took a swipe at Dole: "I think that I am more committed to chang­ing government fundamentally than Bob Dole is." 
nor and secretary of state ­concede. 
Atkins filed his first Ohio ju­dicial election challenge in 1986, four years before the U.S. Supreme Court said judges were covered by the Voting Rights Act. 
His suit forced last year's re­districting of Hamilton County Municipal Court. The 14 judges no longer run at-large. The county has been divided into seven districts, including two designed to increase the likeli­hood of black victors. 
Now, Atkins represents 12 African-American voters from around Ohio, including state Rep. William Mallory Sr., 0­Cincinnati, who also was in­volved in the earlier suit. 
The chances of a black candi­date winning a common pleas or appellate election in Hamil­ton County are slim, said Ken­neth Lawson, an attorney who practices criminal law. Lawson, who is black, said he was con­sidering a run for common pleas in about four years. 
Two blacks ran countywide and lost in Tuesday's election. Judge H. Howard Sundermann Jr. defeated Caleb Brown Jr. in an appellate court race and James Keys Jr. lost to Judge Timothy Hogan in common pleas. 


lt•s Hip To Trip. 

London $438* Paris $518* Tel Aviv $770* Mexico City $198* Tokyo $845* Bangkok $935* 
Foraare rcundtr\:>from Chlalgo.llestl1dlons apply, ta<a are not lnduded and lara are subject to cha~ CaH for otherwor1ctMdc dtstlnallons. 
Couna1 Travel 
1153 H. Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 
312•951•0585 
Call for a FREE . Student Travels magazine!' 

--
~-~--------~~---~~~---~-·~--------------~~­
----~-----------~ 
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 14, 1994 

Deputy Mayor's murder instigates renewed fear 
By KERNAN TURNER Associated Press 
MIREBALAIS, Haiti 

Someone chopped off the head of Deputy Mayor Cadet Damzal just over a week ago. The murder is sowing confu­sion and fear among those who would build democracy in Haiti. 
Damzal, like many other sup­porters of democracy in Haiti's central plateau, had only re­cently ventured out of hiding, encouraged by the presence of 
U.S. troops and the return from exile of President Jean­Bertrand Aristide. 
News of the slaying spread a message across the country: Even the U.S. Special Forces can't guarantee safety in Haiti's remote rural communi­ties, long dominated by military commanders and armed civil­ians known as "attaches." 
"By killing Damzal, they want to kill what he represented," Mayor Paul Yvelt Millien said on the eve of Damzal's funeral, planned for Sunday. 
The Aristide government or­dered an investigation and was to send representatives to the funeral. 
Millien, who along with about 300,000 other pro-Aristide Haitians had been in hiding during much of president's three-year exile, said the killers want to intimidate popular pro­democracy leaders who plan to seek public office in next year's elections. 
Millien, 33, is certain his deputy was slain by the same paramilitary thugs who terror­ized Haiti after Aristide's democratically elected govern­ment was toppled in a September 1991 military coup. The thugs are blamed for at least 3,000 political murders. 
Aristide, whose vast support comes from city slum dwellers and rural sharecroppers, re­turned to Haiti on Oct. 15, a month after U.S. troops landed and engineered the departure of the coup leaders. A U.N. peacekeeping force eventually 
will take over from the Ameri­
cans. 
An American flag flies over 
the old yellow army barracks 
facing the town square in this 
market town, separated by 40 
miles of tortuous dirt and grav­
el road from Port-au-Prince, 
the capital to the south. Nearly 
every home is decorated with 
Aristide posters, something not 
permitted under military rule. 
Damzal's beheading was the most brutal example of the continued violence against Aristide supporters in isolated regions of the· country. They worry it may escalate once the American troops depart. 
Damzal was ambushed the night of Nov. 4 as he walked home. His headless body was plucked from a river the next day by Special Forces soldiers who have occupied the town's regional army garrison since early October. 
"It was ghastly." said Capt. Tim Baxter, 33, of Menominee, Mich. He said Damzal's arms had machete cuts indicating he tried to fend off the blows. 
The body was identified by a son, who recognized his fa­ther's trousers and a hand with a missing finger, Baxter said. 
Damzal's eldest son, Claude, 26, believes his own life is in danger. because he was active in pro-Aristide politics with his father .. 
"Once the funeral is over, I won't be safe," he said. 'Til have to lay low. I'm responsible for the family and they have to go to school and eat." 
A close political associate of Damzal, 36-year-old Faniel Glosy, said Haitian soldiers told him he was next on the list to be killed. He said he would seek refuge in the neighboring Dominican Republic after the funeral. 
Millien, the mayor, said quick justice was necessary. 
"'Otherwise, when the Americans' time is up and the troops leave, they are going to leave us in the hands of the criminals." 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program at 

NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA 
SOPHOMORES WHO NEED DETAILS ON AUSTRALIA PROGRAM FOR 1995-96 
INFORMATION MEETING With Professor Sonia Gemes, Former Visiting Faculty at N.D.A. 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994 129 DEBARTOLO 4:30P.M. 
Sophomores in Colleges of Arts and Letters And Business Administration Are Welcome! 

APEC criticized for policy 
By KENNEtH WHITING Associated Press 

JAKARTA, Indonesia 
Making money overshadows concerns about human rights around the booming Pacific Rim, according to a human rights report issued on the eve of a major international eco­nomic summit here. 
Human Rights Watch-Asia said in a report released here Monday the region shows "impressive economic growth rates and poor human rights records." 
President Clinton, Japanese Prime Minister Tomiichi Mu­rayama and Chinese President Jiang Zemin are among those due to meet Tuesday at Bogor, 37 miles from Jakarta, for the Asia-Pacific Economic Coopera­tion forum. 
Their countries are among those slammed in the 36-page report, which examines eight of the 18 APEC members. 
"The United States fell short of international standards in the areas of prison conditions, treatment of immigrants and refugees, discrimination, use of 
the death penalty and use of L------------____J 

excessive force by police," it said. "Japan's human rights diplo­
macy continued to be con­ditioned largely by overriding political and economic inter­ests," the report added. 
Criticism of China was harsh: "No independent human rights monitoring was permitted in China, and attempts to raise human rights concerns publicly met with severe reprisals ... 
"The last vestige of meaning­ful pressure on China from the international community ended with President Clinton's deci­sion to de-link human rights and most-favored-nation trad­ing status." 
Human Rights Watch is a pri­vate organization that pro­motes internationally recog­nized human rights. 

China. Indonesia, Singapore and several other APEC mem­hers reject the concept of a uni­versa! code of human rights,
insisting that cultural, historic and economic background must be taken into consideration. 
The report said APEC coun­tries must ask themselves whether economic development leads to better human rights, as some suggest the experiences of South Korea and Taiwan have shown, "or does economic growth further legitimize authoritarian governments, as might be asserted in the case of Singapore and Indonesia?" 
Worker rights may become the biggest human rights issue in Asia, the report said. Asian governments argue that such rights are a disguised protec­tionist tool used by the industri­alized nations against the de­veloping countries. 
Leading issues in the report: 

-In Hong Kong, the fate of the British colony was thrown into deeper uncertainty when China reacted to the adoption of electoral reforms by resolv­ing to abolish all results when it regains sovereignty in 1997. 
-In Indonesia, three publica­tions were shut down in June and military intervention in vir­tually all aspects of public life continued as did the arbitrary authority by President Suharto. Other abuses included denial of worker rights, torture and breaking up peaceful demon­strations. 
-In Malaysia, the govern­ment continued its battle against political opponents. ille­gal immigrants and Western news agencies. It also displayed its own double standards by ig­noring its oft-stated opposition to conditional aid and trade by imposing economic sanctions on Britain. 
-Singapore continued to be the exception to every general­ization about economic growth leading to political liberaliza­tion. The caning of American teen-ager Michael Fay brought international attention to a form of corporal punishment that many human rights and medical organizations consider torture. 
-In Thailand, concerns fo­cused on ill-treatment of refugees and immigrants, po­lice abuses, forced prostitution, worker rights and land dis­putes. 
The report also criticized the non-APEC countries of Burma, Vietnam and Cambodia for a variety of human rights abuses. 

INVITES YOU TO ATIEND A PRESENTATION ON 
''How ro PREPARE FOR THE CPA EXAM' 
AND CURRENT EVENTS 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER SORIN ROOM 5:30P.M. 
(PIZZA AND POP WILL BE SERVED) 
DRAWING FOR A FREE CROSS PEN AND PENCIL SET. SPECIAL COLLEGE STUDENT DISCOUNT AVAILABLE TO ALL ATTENDING. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL: 277-4366 
-~ 

......~..,.. .........................~..,.,.......-.................................................,.....··-·· 
Monday, November 14, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Refugees help to recapture city from rebels 
By CHRIS MCDOUGALL 
Associated Press 
LUANDA, Angola 

Slapping the "HUAMBO" tat­too on his bicep, 16-year-old Joao Volodia grunted and sweated during training in a refugee camp for army duty in his hometown, freshly con­quered by government troops. 
"My grandfather fought the Portuguese in Huambo, my fa­ther fought UNITA there. Now it's my turn," said the teen­ager who left his hometown on foot 18 months ago, before it fell to UNITA rebels. 
Refugees like him have played a key role in the gov­ernment's recapture of the city. 
Chief of Staff Gen. Joao de Matos used raw, but angry Huambo refugee recruits to punch through rebel defenses. Of the 15,000 men fighting in the Huambo assault, 12,000 were refugees. 
De Matos, with former UNITA Gen. Abilio Kamalata Numa as his chief strategist for the at­tack, split the refugee recruits into small attack groups and sent them into their old neigh­borhoods, military sources said. 
One source close to de Matos said the general told the refugees: If you want your house back, here's a gun, go get it. 
Huambo, historically the cen­ter of UNIT A rebels' ethnic power base, had been held by government troops for most of Angola's 19-year civil war, which began after the country gained independence from Por­tugal in 1975. 
Before, Huambo was called Nova Lisboa, or New Lisbon. The National Union for the Total Independence of Angola and the government, the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola, fought the Portuguese there for indepen­dence. 
But UNIT A finally wrested what its leader Jonas Savimbi had long considered his capital in May 1993, after a brutal 50­day siege that killed up to 80,000 people. 

Last week, freshly armed gov­ernment troops hit back with a massive offensive. The rebel garrison dispersed and the Angolan flag was hoisted over the governor's palace. 
Skirmishes are still reported around the city, once home to about 400,000. Refugees such as Volodia were drafted for the offensive and now to bolster the government presence there. 
The assault threatened to wreck a peace deal scheduled to be signed Tuesday l).fter nearly a year of U.N.-brokered talks. The rebels said the deal was off unless the government withdrew. 
But, with Huambo lost and the rebels weakened, Savimbi reportedly has promised to turn up for the signing after all. 
"Every Angolan knows we will have peace only when one side is under the other's knee," said Volodia, after practicing commando crawls and hand-to­hand combat, all without a gun or uniform. 
Volodia left Huambo in April 1993. He walked 10 days to government-held Benguela on the Atlantic coast before being transferred to ilhe Luanda camp where 3,000 Huambo refugees are housed in tents pitched around abandoned ware­houses. 

Clinton pays tribute to America's veterans 
By LAWRENCE KNUTSON 
Associated Press 
ARUNGTON, Va. 

President Clinton, 
pay­ing tribute to veterans the nation's battlefields, pledged anew today not to forget unaccounted for in Vietnam. And he saluted those men and now women who die in training "so that we will find it less necessary to fight." 
"I am proud to share this Veterans Day with you in this magnificent place of rest and reverence," Clinton said to an audience of veterans in the am­phitheater at Arlington National Cemetery. 
"And we honor all those who at this very moment are stand­ing watch for freedom and se­curity. 
"We say, simply and from the bottom of our hearts, 'Thank You,"' the president said. 
He paid tribute to U.S. forces in the Middle East helping se­cure the area against potential aggression from Iraq. 
And he thanked "our troops helping the Haitian people turn from fear and repression to hope and democracy." 
Clinton noted that his day be­gan with breakfast for some 250 veterans, most of whom served in the Pacific theater in World War II. 
The president is bound for the Far East where he will at­tend ceremonies at Corregidor, the former U.S. military fortress in the Philippines, and will visit the largest U.S. mili­tary cemetery outside the United States. 
He spoke of the peace, pros­perity and security that exist to­day and said, "We know that these blessings are the fruit of our veterans' sacrifice 50 years ago." 
"You must know that Amer­ica will never forget the service you have rendered and Amer­ica will never forget those who did not return from our battle­fields," in Vietnam and else­where, Clinton said. 
"Today we renew our vow for the fullest possible accounting for their fate." 
Screen Gems '94-'95 
The movies as they were meant to be: Classic films. Big screen. Bargain prices. 
Tuesday, Nov.15, 1:30 and 7:30p.m. Cary Grant Irene Dunne 
TheAwful Truth 
One of the great screwball comedies. Grant and Dunne are a soon-to-be-divorced couple who outdo themselves trying to sabotage each other's new love interest. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium $2 adults, $1 students 
COMING ATTRACTIONS: Stanley Kubrick's PATIIS OF GLORY, 

GOP promises to cut we:lfare 
ByJENNIFER DIXON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
House Republicans are promising quick action to re­form the welfare system with a plan to strip young, unwed mothers of cash benefits and funnel the savings into orphan­ages and adoptions -but not abortions. 
Preparing to seize control of Congress, Republican lawmak­ers say they are willing to work with the White House to over­haul welfare by imposing strict time limits on benefits, work requirements and restrictions on aid to most immigrants. 
But their legislation, included in the "Contract With America" signed by more than 300 Re­publican House candidates, may be too conservative for President Clinton, governors and moderate lawmakers. 
Hearings on the bill could be­gin in early January and the House is expected to vote on it within the first 100 days of the session. 
Rep. Newt Gingrich of Geor­gia, the likely House speaker when the GOP takes over in January, is interpreting Tues­day's Republican landslide as a mandate for the contract, a list of 10 pledges that also includes tax cuts and a balanced budget amendment. 
Gingrich, speaking Sunday on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley," suggested radical changes in welfare where no payments would go to people capable of finding work and those without jobs would de­pend on private charity. 

"People ought to have to do something for any resources they get if they are able-bodied under the age of retirement," he said. 
Welfare reform was a favorite issue in this year's campaigns. Clinton used his promise to "end welfare as we know it" to define himself as a new, cen­trist Democrat two years ago. 
Approximately 5 million fami­lies receive Aid to Families with Dependent Children, and an­other 27 million individuals are on food stamps. 
Republicans and many Democrats agree that welfare must be overhauled to promote work, end long-term depen­dency, and strengthen child support collections. 
The House plan goes even further by ending monthly wel­fare checks and housing assis­tance to unwed mothers 17 and younger. States would also be allowed to ban cash benefits to women ages 18, 19 and 20. 
Rep. Jim Talent, R-Mo., said Tuesday's election outcome sig­nals a demand for dramatic change in a welfare system that discourages marriage and work, and encourages illegiti­macy. 
"This was a decisive repudia­tion of the policies of the Great Society," said Talent; who wrote the ban on welfare to young mothers. "We've got to change the incentives in the system . . . and attack the prob-
LAST OPPORTUNITY TO REGISTER ! 
free transportation and admission 

MIN 0 R ITv 
CAREER 
~g~~ Me 
/Arthur Andersen
Hewitt Associates Leo Burnett Company, Inc. 
PARTIAL LIST OF EMPLOYERS 
Armour Swift · Eckrich Boston Consulting Group Capital Group Chubb Grp. of Insurance Co. Citibank Comerica Inc. Defense Intelligence Agency Ernst & Young Mgt. Consulting Fidelity Investments Florida Power & Light Goldman, Sachs & Co. Harris Bankcorp Merrill Lynch Nat'l Westminster Bancorp Inc. Northern Trust Company Northern Illinois Gas Reuters Smith Kline Beecham Swiss Bank Corporation Towers Perrin 
U.S. Navy 
PLUS MANY MORE!! 
Th 
e 
for all minority juniors and seniors! 
Friday 

~ 'iu~ry ~ 
4 tJ 

Chi M · D 7 
cago arnott owntown 

TO REGISTER and be 
eligible for INTERVIEWS 
sena or fax your resume to 
Crimson & Brown Associates, Inc. 1770 Massachusetts Ave., Suite 332 Cambridge, MA 02140 
1EL 617.868.0181-FAX617.868.0187 


REGISTRATION DEADLINE EXTENDED TO: November 18 Write your top 3 industry;preferences on the back of your resume or on your fax cover sheet 
Meet and Interview with leading employers! 
lem with the out-of-wedlock birth rate. And the only way ... is to end the cash and cash-re­lated benefits and take care of families in a different way." 
Under the Republican bill, the savings generated by denying aid to teen-age mothers would be returned to the states to pro­vide services to the women and their children. These services would include promoting adop­tions and establishing or­phanages or group homes, but none of the money could be used for abortion services or counseling. 
Older mothers would be re­quired to identify the fathers of their children to receive a monthly check and would be required to work after two years on welfare. 
The GOP plan would also cut welfare benefits to most legal immigrants, saving $22 billion over five years. 
"I want a comprehensive wel­fare bill that asks the people riding in the wagon to get out of the wagon and help the rest of us pull," Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." "I want a mandatory work requirement in the private sector." 
Some Republicans, however, have reservations about the cut in aid to youn1~ mothers and the bill's impact on the states. 
"We've got a lot of Republican governors and we don't want to go to war with them. They'll have an influence on what we do," said Rep. Clay Shaw, R-Fla. and the likely chairman of the House Ways and Means subcommittee that oversees welfare. 
A spokeswoman said Rep. Nancy Johnson, R-Conn., is concerned about the potential impact on families and wants to hear from the people affected. 
Shaw believes cash benefits are part of the reason that, by the end of the decade, half of all births will be to unwed mothers. 
But, he said, "'whether some of these things are overly cruel is something we're going to have to discuss and work out. ... It appears to me that welfare creates welfare, and we've got to stop ,that." 
Clinton signaled Wednesday that he thinks an agreement on welfare is possible and said he hoped for "aggressive efforts to work together on welfare re­form." 
Rep. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., who led welfare reform efforts in the House this year and was just elected to the Senate, said Clinton now can be "as bold as he wants to be ... he can get some of the more ideological left-wing folks out of the loop. He's going to have to come to the middle." ' 


CAMPUSES 
page 8 Monday, November 14, 1994 
Grape boycott causes controversy at Duke 

By ZOE MARIN Grape Workers and Farmers boycott as they are in raising several students asked that the rary," said Lopez. "We haven't Assistant Campuses Ediror Coalition in alliance with the money, basically using the boy­grapes be returned to the heard from the administration." California State Environmental cott as a fund-raising tactic. shelves. We went to the advi­One student government
Controversy is brewing at 

Protection Agency, state that GWFC director Ricardo sory board and had them re­member, Rho hit Khanna, is Duke University over a boycott UFW's information is outdated Chavez Baiz reported that UFW turned. lfthere is a strong feel­aligning with UFW and has pro­of California grapes. 
and there is much uncertainty has kept up the hype about the ing among the students now, posed that the student govern­
According to Mi Gente, a 

surrounding the facts. boycott due to financial losses we will reassess the situation," ment not only boycott the Latino student organization, Roberto Lopez, the president related to dwindling member­said Joe Pietrantoni, associate grapes, but to boycott the stores and Student Action with Farm of Mi Gente, stated that the ship. vice president for auxiliary ser­that carry them as well. 
Workers, the pesticides used on group obtains its information The university had originally vices at Duke, to the Chronicle, "If the majority of the student the grapes are harmful to the from the United Farm Workers, boycotted the grapes on the Duke's student newspaper. body supports a boycott of farm workers who handle the (UFW), a labor union who at campus in 1988. The boycott So far, Mi Gente has con­California grapes, then I think 
crops. 
one point, also boycotted the was lifted a year and a half ago vinced only one campus food the administration would However, there is opposition grapes. after students voiced an inter­store to reinstate the boycott. understand," said Khanna. 
to Mi Gente's claims about the The GWFC claims that the Mi est in their return. "They are just off the Reporter Rose Martelli con­pesitcides. Two groups, the Gente isn't as interested in the "The policy changed because shelves ... but that is just tempo-tributed to this article .. 
Post-concert shooting Four banned 
• 
from football 

investigated at BC 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -For some people at the University
for assault 

By MARCY DINIUS foot instead of in a car. 
Minnesota's School of Social Work, Christian Dior's Poison Campu..,s Ediror According to Robert WEST POINT, N.Y. (AP) ­exactly that So the school has prohibited its 250 studentsSherwood, Dean of Student De­Three West Point athletes have IWl:tai'limt perfumes, colognes and other scented products. 
Police at Boston College are velopment at BC, the shooting been barred from playing foot­"is a response to a puzzling new atniction called investigating an incident involv­is "very possibly related" to a ball for the rest of the 1994 lebeJJliClU sensitivity-environmental illness, which can leaveing the firing of five gunshots fight that broke out at an ear­season for groping female lternnrlraJlilv paralyzed by even a whiff of perfume. It's npton campus that was possibly lier campus concert. cadets when the women ran people have the disease. 

related to a fight that occurred A crowd of 400 people attend­past during a pep rally. 
at a campus concert involving a \01Clj3•arhow many people have the disease, and ""'"..'"""'"'' 
ing the show featuring four 
,~ ...,uLIJ'" .,~.....,.,..,,.,that it is caused by acute chemical eX]po~;urelconflict between students and funk and hip-hop groups was The three unidentified ath­the immune system. 
non-BC students. 
composed of BC students and letes were also restricted to the tJati t'l:ppllies only to social work students, but others who Following an eye-witness de­non-BC students. U.S. Military Academy grounds 1'ntlr.O>'tnli'U building, which also houses the JIU.I,.VOVJ.IIll.J
scription, police are searching According to a student at the for 90 days, received demerits 
J;t ;;>~ .........,,. department$, are gently urged to stay
for a black male that drove a show, the fight occurred and were ordered to march for red Honda Prelude who is not between five or six students. 80 hours, the academy saidassumed to be a BC student as Due to BC's entertainment li­Friday. 
a possible suspect in the shoot­cense, only BC students can Two other players who were ing. 
purchase tickets to on-campus also accused of running their
No one was injured in the 

events that are not plays or hands across the breasts of fe­. . (AP) -In hopes of encouraging more shooting and police were un­sporting events. Yet the policy male cadets on Oct. 20 were relatively low-paying public service jobs, New York able to find bullets or shells in was not enforced, according to cleared because of insufficient imnounced a financial aid program that could mean a 
the area where shots were 
precedent. evidence, academy spokes­·for some of the 1,300 students enrolled in its law school. 
fired. 
At a meeting regarding secu­woman Andrea Hamburger The program. to be available to entering students of 1995, 1996 Descriptions of the incident rity measures for campus said. and 1997, will pay school and living costs of students who have varied, with the location events, there was a consensus The incident occurred during 10 years after graduation working as lawyers in jobs paying of the car at the time the shots 
of those at the meeting on the a "spirit run," in which the than the prevailing public service salary. 
were fired being disputed in the need for more strict security at cadets ran through a cordon of The definition of prevailing public service salary will be reports of two witnesses. 
such events. about 200 Army football play­av•~r"'"" pay of a career federal lawyer. Currently, that's One report said that the sus­-Heights News Editor Emily ers. '"'"''"•'-'vv the first year and $60,000 the 10th year, he said. 
pect fired into a crowd near a Hancock contributed to this student who earns more than that after graduation will campus building and was on 
article. Col. Alan A. Fox, brigade tac­v~··t:o~W~ to repay part or all of the money advanced by the I tical officer at the academy, '""'"u""• Kelban said. handed out the most severe The $10 million cost of the program, in part an upgrading
Federal program helps 
penalty he could impose. More rexpatisum of scholarships already in place, will be covered by serious offenses can be re­million anonymous donation matched by NYU. ferred to the superintendent,
students with tuition 
who can expel cadets. for discrimination 
CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP) joined to put money away for The academy had moved Whether slogging sandbags in college. quickly on the case to avoid marsh mud, repairing motels to Congress created the $21 mil­comparisons to the Tailhook house the homeless or sorting lion NCCC and AmeriCorps last scandal, in which dozens of 
government is investigating a discrimination com­
medical records, a new genera­year. About 1,000 youths, be­women were molested by . against the University of Illinois by American Indian stu­tion of Americans is helping tween 18 and 24, are attending drunken aviators who formed a Who areupset over the school's mascot. 
others. And unlike the Peace four training camps in gantlet in a hotel hallway dur­·.·federal government stepped in after five students filed com­Corps, they are doing it at Maryland, Colorado, California ing a 1991 convention in Las , .. -·---·-·-lastspring asking that the university be barred from home. and South Carolina for the Vegas. 
. Illiniwek as its symbol, Roger Murphey, spokesman for At a soon-to-close Navy base, NCCC. 
.S. Departme11t of Education's Office of Civil Rights, said 233 young people have pledged They work for government or The names of the athletes' ac­a year of their lives to the Na­nonprofit agencies in educa­cusers were not disclosed. 
The students contend the mascot violates federal policy and ere­
tional Civilian Community tion, the environment, social Officials learned of the inci­a "hostile and abusive" environment for American Indians. 
Corps. It's part of President services and public safety, and dent when several female UI legal counsel Byron Higgins said investigators have visited the Clinton's larger national service are trained in everything from cadets complained that same to review letters and documents in the case. 
initiative, AmeriCorps. landscaping to working with day. Eighteen of the 51 wom~n 
They work for minimum the elderly. cadets in the spirit run said wage; for free housing, uni­Colton and her crew filled their breasts were touched; A&M official sentenced forms and health care; and for and piled 9,000 sandbags to three of them believed the a $4,725 education grant. They shore up an old boat landing at touching was accidental. BRYAN, Texas (AP)-A former Texas A&M University adminis­also do it for themselves. Drayton Hall, an 18th century who asked a vendor seeking a hefty contract for limo rides 
plantation on the National Reg­None of the women could and Broadway tickets was sentenced Friday to a year 
Michael Williams, 21, of ister of Historic Places. identify the players involved. Of uucuuo•u and fined $2,750. Durham, N.C., recently spent They learned a little about the five players who came un­Robert Smith, a former vice president of finance and ............-. five weeks painting and restor­engineering, a little about the der suspicion, three came for­list:ra1timi. also received a suspended six-month jail sentence ing exhibits aboard the USS environment and a little about ward and said they had jury. 
Yorktown, the vintage aircraft life in colonial times. brushed against the women Smith was convicted Thursday of asking Barnes & Nob carrier that is a state-run "With every project we do, I inadvertently. The two others Bo•ok~>tm:es Inc. to provide air fare, limousine rides, meals, •v""'"'"' tourist attraction in Charleston want to change my college ma­were turned in by their team­Broadway theater tickets for his wife to accompany him on Harbor. jor," Colton said. mates. to New York in 1993. The company was awarded a multimil 
"I wanted to challenge my­The spirit run was suspended ,..u,u·•uu•J.•u contract to run the campus bookstore. self," said a mud-splattered Ryan Land, 22, of Orlando, after the incident. Then on Barnes & Noble has said the university was the beneficiary, Amanda Colton as she paused Fla., couldn't decide between Thursday, cadets at a pep rally · individuals. from stacking sandbags along the Peace Corps and law school were made to run past a line of Smith, 58, was demoted from the finance and a.dministr the Ashley River. after college, so he joined the players instead of through a -·to director of special operations in June after being indicted 
Colton, 18, of Summerville, NCCC. cordon. a grand jury. 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 14, 1994 page9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporn Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Ediwr....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Conuoller..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independenr newspaper published by the studenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, . Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Poor transportation no reason to jeopardize student safety 
Last week's acquittal of John Rita in apartment complexes, the fraternity row I~S;! the death of Mara Fox and the recent area and Austin's major entertainment series of assaults on Notre Dame stu­district, 6th street. Such a system has dents on their way to off campus hous­obvious benefits for both the university ing would seem to make an examination and its students: cars become less of a of the transportation options provided to necessity alleviating the parking crunch students an extremely pertinent topic. and saving students money, street crime The simple reality for most Notre Dame against students becomes less of a prob­students, especially freshmen, is that a lem, the amount of drunk driving is tremendous amount required to get to reduced (since one doesn't have to drive ---~ and from off-campus destinations. The to or from the entertainment area) and geographic isolation of our campus, the the overall quality of off-campus life is 
promoted via this direct link to the cam-..I!C:::iiil pus. 

Here at Notre Dame a readily appar-'~=i~~~~~=~::::.......~~~::;~~~~
ent need for a similar system is develop­ing. A cursory examination reveals the -..lill--llill 

specifics of our situation. Students who commercial resources offered by South beginning and ends of breaks. do not have cars (i.e. a significant Bend, leading to an increased sense of A second major objection to establish­majority of the student body) have basi-community with the surrounding area. ing transportation to off campus loca­cally three choices -bum a ride from a Off-campus students would benefit by tions is that it would encourage moving friend, take a South Bend Transpo bus having a safe and reliable method of off campus, even as the administration or hire a cab. All three of these options transport to the University regardless of maintains that the residential nature of 
relative scarcity of students with cars bring with them significant problems. weather conditions or other variables. Notre Dame's campus is integral to its and the limited amount of public trans­For example, many freshman know a The amount of crime directed at stu-"character." None the less, it is undeni­portation ND students have access to finite number of people with cars and dents trying to walk to off-campus desti-able that an ever increasing number of combine to make off-campus outings private cars are a dangerous thing to nations would be by definition reduced upperclassmen are coming to the deci­into a somewhat difficult proposition. have along on an evening of bar hop-and there would be no need for anyone sion that living off-campus for a year The very real safety concerns exposed ping. The city buses run directly only to to attempt to walk almost five miles provides a valuable supplement to the by Mara Fox's death and the various the mall and downtown, have very limit-from Macri's Deli along a dark road on a traditional Notre Dame experience. Eck/Turtle Creek area attacks should ed hours at night and as many of you fog shrouded night. Therefore, the University has an obliga­prompt the University to investigate the already know any ND student riding the There are of course those who will tion to do everything in its power to merits of setting up a shuttle bus system bus outside of the immediate vicinity of object to this proposal. Among their insure both the security of these stu­similar to the ones found on almost campus is likely to be subjected to more arguments will be that Notre Dame dents and their continued participation every other college campus of any size than their share of dirty looks. Cabs are already offers a limited bus service in in the campus community, regardless of in this country. almost prohibitively expensive and are the form of the "Weekend Wheels" pro-how the administration views their deci­
This past Fall Break I had the oppor­at a shortage during peak hours here in gram and that almost no one utilizes it. sion to live outside of the dorms. tunity to visit several other campuses South Bend; many of us have had to The answer to this challenge is that As Notre Dame students, we live in a where I was surprised to find much wait half an hour for cab pick-up on a while the intent of "Weekend Wheels" is region that is increasingly crime-ridden more mobile student bodies than the weekend night, to say nothing of the sort commendable, it is flawed in its concep-and pedestrian unfriendly. Unlike many one here at Notre Dame. The University of wait at the Michiana Regional Airport tion. Rather than serving as a simple colleges, we are not within safe walking of Texas, Texas A&M University and the on the night before classes .resume after collector of drunks from bars on week-distance of normal commercial ~ctivity. University of Chicago, offer extensive a break. end nights, my proposed operation Even the hike to relatively nearby apart­university run-shuttle bus services The advantages that establish a com-would take students to destinations such ment complexes is becoming treacher­which are designed primarily to foster prehensive shuttle bus route would as the various apartment complexes and ous. In light of these developments the student safety. For example, at UT bring with it for the Notre Dame com-a few fixed locations within walking dis-University should study the possibilities buses owned and operated by the school munity is perhaps more extensive than tance of commercial areas (e.g. a stop of establishing a student oriented trans­(and clearly marked as such-unlike the in most collegiate environments. On-near the University Park Mall and per-portation network. Notre Dame to Saint Mary's shuttle) take campus students would be more capable haps across the street at University Park students from their campus to various of taking advantage of the cultural and West). The airport would also seem a Kratovil is a sophomore Government 
reasonable destination especially at the and International Relations major . 

GARRY TRUDEAU

• DDONESBURY 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, November 14, 1994 
• LETTERS To ALoNELY Goo 
Remembering Mara from here to eternity 
Should I be embarrassed to admit that my heart felt of the jury felt that the evidence didn't show that the lightened at the jury's decision to acquit Notre Dame defendant was guilty of a felony for which he deserved law school graduate John Rita of the felony charge of to do time in the slammer. I'm not enough of a lawyer causing the death of Mara Fox while driving drunk? to want to put the jury on trial as bleeding-heart liber­This does not mean that I 
als. think the driver of the Justic;e demand­
ed that John Ritadeath car should go scot-F h R b G .ffi 
free, after causing mortal at er 0 ert rt tn be put on trial. damage to a blameless Now that he's pedestrian who would been found inno­
Bellers Ia a Bonefj 9od
have been wiser to wait cent, should he be 

for a taxi, if it took all night. So far as I can see, John Hita has not, for a minute, gone scot-free; and if he has a conscience, he will be haunted by guilt, sorrow, and regret, from here to eternity. 
Students sorrowing for Mara have all my sympathy. Sending to find out for whom the bell tolled, they found it tolled for them; for no student is an island entire of itself. Every student is part of the continent, a part of the main. But how about a word of sympathy for John, as the underdog? I cannot guess what he feels in his conscience, and no jury can expunge his conscience for him. Even if he's not a Heisman trophy winner, the Notre Dame family must acknowledge him as one of our own. There but for the grace of God could go anyone of us stupid enough to drive after wetting the whistle. I would feel the same way if Mara had been the driver, and Hita had been the casualty struck and killed on Douglas Road. 
Should students be embittered by what they perceive to be a miscarriage of justice? Injustice will always be the name of the game. At least, John Rita did not have a million dollars' worth of lawyers defending him, as though he were O.J. Simpson. Do Notre Dame students feel entitled to second-guess the jury which found Rita innocent of a crime which carries a jail sentence? If so, some of them may be feeling more sorry for themselves than they are for poor Mara. I'm glad that the members 
• Poco APoco 
kept on trial by 
vigilantes having 
axes to grind? Let the lad get on with his life as a lawyer. Maybe he can turn it into something beautiful for God, for his own sake, and for the sake of Mara, who, for all I know, may have died for her sins. 
Many years ago, when I was rector of Keenan, a drunken driver plowed up a Saturday-night massacre on Notre Dame Avenue. I attended the funeral Mass for Mark, one of the victims, in Fort Wayne. When the graveside services were over, Mark's mother walked over to the student responsible for the death of her son. Hugging and kissing him, she showed how deeply she felt his sorrow. Her graciousness helped heal the pain that so many of Mark's classmates were feeling. 
I could give you a roll-call of parents who have turned the world into a gentler, kinder place by their acts of noblesse oblige toward perpetrators of violence they have reasons to be angry with. I'm not sure I could be such a parent if violence took away my child., but I hope that I can learn from them the meaning of forgiveness 
I am not acquainted with John Rita, and I never met Mara. Still, I can weep for her, dying young; and I want John and his family and friends to know he has well­wishers under the Dome. I trust that the classmates of Mara will pray for him. 
Editor's Note: Father Robert Griffin's Letters to a Lonely God normally appears every Friday. 
For Mexicans, Prop 187 a time for self examination 
Nowadays it only takes one English word from the all-Spanish TV to perk my ears right up. Sometimes it catches me off guard. Sometimes I'm not sure I've heard the announcer correctly. But there is certainly no better way to dis­tract this gringa during lunch than with a news report with a word from the States. 
That is how I heard about the flooding in my hometown of Houston. That is how I knew the O.J. Simpson trial was still going strong, and that's how I learned about California's Pete Wilson and his campaign to "save the state" from the financial burden of illegal immigrants. 
In Mexico, though, it is difficult to avoid any news of Proposition 187-the measure approved by the people of California Tuesday, that seeks to deny health services (apart from emergency care) and education to undocumented immigrants and their children. 
For the past few weeks, this is all that many Mexicans have talked about. It has been the topic of heated discussion. It has been on the news daily and in the papers with equal frequency. And it has made being an American away from home rather interesting. 
The relationship between Mexico and the United States is a complex one-or so it seems. It is a relationship of con­flicting emotion-inspiration along with an obvious lack of communication. Depending on to whom you talk, the U.S. can be a paradise or a prison, a power­ful example of democracy or just a place to buy good stuff. 
The fierce debate over Proposition 187 has managed to make this relationship even more confusing. 
In my time here I have yet to meet a Mexican who does not take Proposition 187 as a personal attack on their coun­try and on their people. They call the measure "anti-Mexican," "unjust," and "inhumane," and don't often make much of a distinction between "legal" and "illegal." 
My 22 year-old Spanish instructor and friend told me today that the fact that the proposition passed by such a large amount (67percent to 33percent ) con­firmed her belief that people from the 
U.S. are racist. Of course, she was talk­ing to a gringa at the time. 
A woman at the secondary school where we volunteer a couple days a week, confided in Scott that now that the measure passed she was worried about her brother and his children who had moved to the U.S. They did so legally, but she was still worried. 
Still another, a teacher at our lan­guage school, expressed her, unfortu­nately misinformed, regret that the proposition only targets Mexicans and not any other immigrant groups. 
There is no clear cut response from the North Americans passing time here. For nine weeks Katie, Scott, and I have been guests in this country. We have received incredible hospitality and gen-
Meredith McCullough 

erosity. We have been exposed to, and participated in, albeit limitedly, the rich culture and tradition. We have made friends, and it is going to be hard to leave when the time comes. 
But we are still from the States. We are still gringos struggling to under­stand what's going on here. 
It is easy to observe, but harder to respond. 
From my time here, I can understand better than before the beautiful and strong sense of solidarity between Mexican people that allows so many of them to see this action as not only against illegal immigrants, but against all Hispanic people. I can better under­stand the feeling of betrayal, and the perception that this proposition is a message to Mexico that the U.S. does not respect her neighbors. And from my time working in the school here, I can better feel for the children who will not be able to receive education. 
And yet, as a citizen of the U.S., I can't help but wonder what is a good and just solution to the problem of illegal immi­grants? 

La Jounado, a Mexican newspaper stated that from January to October 1994 the state of California alone deported 340,000 illegal immigrants. During the campaign, Governor Wilson claimed that the amount spent on social services for such immigrants is stagger­ing. 
With the decline of our inner cities, the disintegration of so many U.S. schools, homelessness, poverty, unem­ployment. and so on, it is clear that this is one of many problems that must be addressed and addressed soon. 
But is Proposition 187 the right approach? 
With the probability this measure will not go into effect until it has done some time in the U.Ss court system, it is not likely that anything will happen right away. 
Still, if the proposition works like it is supposed to, I wonder if California will not just end up with even larger prob­lems-an uneducated immigrant sector with high emergency health care bills due to the fact that they have no school­ing or preventative care. Also, it is curi­ous that this measure seems to let employers' of illegal immigrants (who perpetuate the problem by promising work to the unemployed) ofT the hook. 
But, perhaps a more pressing issue is that whether or not it works like it is supposed to, debate over the issue has already done much to insight anger on both sides, and has heated up racial ten­sions. 
In the United States, whether the mea­sure itself is racist or not, it has caused a number of people to automatically associate illegal aliens with Hispanics, and I fear it may increase discrimination against legal immigrants. 
In Mexico, I have already heard of a few results of increased racial tensions. For example, on the night of the vote a group of about 40 individuals broke into and attempted to destroy a McDonald's in Mexico City. graffiting the walls with "McDeath," "Solidarity with the immi­grants," and "Yankees Go Home." 
While the Mexican people are infuriat­ed over the proposal, it seems that the Mexican government is getting a break with all this attention focused on the North Americans. Pressure is relaxed to 
improve social conditions here in Mexico. 
In his final State of the Nation address, November 2, President Carlos Salinas de Gortanti called the measure "xenopho­bic" and claimed "local political inter­ests in California tend to blame Mexican workers for that society's problems." 
I find it ironic that in just nine weeks I have seen a number of protests on TV­and even one in person-in which field workers in the Mexican pueblos have been demanding better working condi­tions. It is ironic that the minimum wage in Mexico is 14 pesos a day (about four dollars), that there is next to no government aid for the large population of Mexican poor, and that today here in Mexico the poorest of the poor rarely attend school. 
I can't help but be frustrated that the Mexican government doesn't use this opportunity for self examination, to look at why so many of her people immigrate to the States in the first place. It is frus­trating that they refuse to work for internal reform and insist on pointing the finger at the racist North Americans who refuse to help. 
The day before the election, I was sur­prised to come across an editorial by Mexican Roberto Blancarte. Generally, the press in Mexico is just as reluctant to self criticism and has been sensation­alizing coverage of Proposition 187. In this case however, Blancarte actually challenged Mexico to take responsibility for her poor. He wrote, "The only way to conserve the confidence of our poor people is to convert their needs to our priorities." 
This is advice that both nations must take to heart. It is unfortunate that what has come of Proposition 187 is not a genuine effort to serve the problem of illegal immigrants and to help their plight. Rather it has been a rash of name calling and political games. If nothing else the proposition has called attention to the problems that exist. Hopefully, this is the first step to finding a solution. 
McCullough, '94, is a Holy Cross Associate preparing in Mexico City for her work in Santiago. Chile. 
BOBBY'S

FLORIDA STATE NOTRE DAME 
23-16
' h '~ • 
BACK 
scored a touchdown after a fumble recov­ery to give Notre Dame life in the first half. 

Tomahawked 
Seminoles trample 
Notre Dames 
upsetting ideas 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
ORlANDO, Fla. It was the first time in a long time that you could feel sorry for Notre Dame. 
With the clock winding down on Notre Dame's 23-16 loss to Florida State Saturday at the Citrus Bowl, pity swept over the green Florida grass and swirled around the Irish players like a hot southern breeze. 
It was certainly a new feeling. 

This wasn't a game Notre Dame (5-4) should have won. Not by a longshot. Not with a passing attack that flutttered like a wound­ed seagull and a run defense which allowed the traditionally pass-happy Seminoles to ground out 332 yards. 
But as the wave of parity in college football rolls on, so does the hope for the underdog. And although the Irish play the little man so seldom, when they fall short as they did Saturday, it still stirs some emotion. 
"Notre Dame did what I expected," Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said. "They fought for 60 minutes·." 
But in truth they only were in it for 56 min­utes. The final minutes were spent trailing 
see IRISH I page 2 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Florida State's Warrick Dunn scores the game-winning touchdown (above). Notre Dame's chances for a comeback were eliminated when Ron Powlus stumbled on third down (below). 

One year later, Irish a shadow of former self 
T
ORlANDO, Fla. his is the wreckage that one year has wrought. Strewn across the Florida Citrus Bowl floor. the Notre Dame football players absorbed another loss. Jason Kelly The routine is becom-Associate Sports 
Editor

ing quite familiar. They hang their heads instead of holding their helmets high. It's a trudge, not a trot, to the locker room. And Hon Powlus tries to remember the day of the week. A post­game parade of pain. 
Only 12 months ago, Notre Dame knew nothing about this agony of defeat thing. The Irish sat comfortably on their familiar perch atop college football after vanquish­ing the visiting Seminoles. 


But Saturday, this year's victory vacuum continued. 
"It's frustrating, we've been close so many times but we haven't been able to do what we have to do 'to win," Irish captain Justin Goheen said. "I don't know what the 
see KELLY I page 3 

Monday, November 14, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
• GAME NOTES 
Darryl Bush helps douse Irish offense 
Becton and Zellars return to boost Irish running attack 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
ORlANDO, Fla. 
Lou Holtz wanted Bush in '92. 
Darryl Bush, that is, now a redshirt freshman linebacker for Florida State, who proved Saturday why he was one of the most coveted high school prospects in recent years. 
He collected nine tackles-two for lost yardage-and twice hurried Irish quar­terback Hon PowIus, one of which creat­ed an interception. 
"Bush is maybe the best freshman linebacker in the country," Seminoles' defensive coordinator Mickey Adams said. "If there's nne better, I hope we don't have to play him." 
Notre Dame hoped the same thing two years ago, when it attempted to lure the Altamonte Springs, Fla. resident to South Bend. 
"He's the best high school linebacker I've ever seen on film," Holtz said. 
Alas, Notre Dame's recruiting efforts proved futile. Holtz said Bush expressed no interest in Notre Dame. But Bush said Notre Dame didn't express much interest, either. 
"I know (Holtz) never visited my house and I don't remember him calling," Bush said. "I might be wrong about that, but I think I would remember it." 
Notre Dame will remember Bush for a long time. BRILLIANT STRATEGY: At first 
glance, it appeared to be a potential vic­tory-erasing gaffe for Florida State coach Bobby Bowden. 
After a touchdown put the Seminoles ahead 15-10 late in the third quarter, Bowden chose to kick the extra point rather than attempt a two-point conver­sion. Notre Dame then needed only a touchdown and an extra point to over­cdrne the 16-10 deficit. 
It looked like the decision would cost the Seminoles after a Notre Dame touch­down knotted the score. But when Scott Cengia's extra point bounced off the left upright, Bowden's decision didn't seem so bad anymore. 
Seems that the coach knew what he was doing all along. 
Though his decision ultimately didn't play a major role in the outcome, Bowden was asked to explain his rea­soning, anyway. 
Why not go for two, coach? 
" 'Cause I knew they was gonna miss that extra point," Bowden drawled. Brilliant strategy. WELCOME BACK: Lee Becton and Ray 
Zellars returned Saturday after missing several games with nagging injuries. And, for a few series, Notre Dame's vaunted running game returned, too. 
Becton rushed for 88 yards on 15 car­ries and Zellars had 25 yards on six car­ries. 
Becton's return was particularly satis­fying for the Irish, who have missed his steady play in the backfield. His success surprised even his coach. 
"I didn't expect Becton to play as much or as well as he did," Holtz admit­ted. 
ORLANDO ENCORE?: Notre Dame and Florida State are not scheduled to play again until a home-and-home series in 2002 and 2003. 

But talks apparently began this week­end about starting the series in the 1998 or 1999 season with games in South Bend, Tallahassee and a return trip to the Citrus Bowl included. 
Florida Citrus Sports threw enough of a party for this weekend's Texaco Star Classic to intrigue the Irish about the possibility of returning in the future. 
"It's just talk right now," Florida State acting athletic director Wayne Hogan said in Sunday's Orlando Sentinel. "But the good thing is, (Notre Dame) is inter­ested. And that all came about as a result of this weekend. 
GOT A BLEEDIN' NOSE, EH: Florida State captain Derrick Brooks missed the pre-game coin toss because of a bloody nose. Team doctors said a blood vessel in Brooks' nose burst due to "excite­ment." 


Irish 
continued from page I 
Seminoles and hanging heads, not nec­essarily in that order. · Warrick Dunn's five-yard run with 
2:53 remaining will go on paper as the game-winner, but it was the subtraction of one point not the addition of Dunn's six which probably did in the Irish. 
After Ron Powlus connected with Derrick Mayes on an 11-yard pass to knot the score at 16-16, Irish placekick­er Scott Cengia trotted on the field and proceeded to clank the PAT off the left upright. 
"That was a downer," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. "You get sort of a mental lapse when something like that happens." 
If the missed PAT wasn't enough of a downer, then the play which followed certainly did the job. Seminole quarter­back Danny Kanell hit Kez McCorvey with 49-yard bomb to the Irish 19-yard line setting up Dunn's game-winner. 
"I felt confidence was a big factor going into this game," Holtz said. "Those two plays (the missed PAT and the long pass) took the confidence away from us." 
It was amazing Notre Dame had any. confidence after being dominated for the first 30 minutes. Florida State out­gained the Irish oiTense 261-80 and held the edge in first downs 17-3. 
But the Seminoles went into the locker room clinging to a 9-7 lead, obtained in the final seconds on Dan Mowrey's third field goal of the half. While Florida State was wasting scoring opportunities, Notre Dame's offense never really threatened to raise the scoreboard oper­ator from his chair. Cornerback Bobby Taylor accounted for Notre Dame's only first-half points when he sacked Kanell, forced a fumble, and then picked up the loose ball and raced 57 yards to the endzone. 
Only one other time did the Irish threaten in the first two quarters, but the drive stalled near the Seminole 30­yard line when Powlus threw one of two interceptions on the day. 
"I told our players at halftime that Notre Dame was dying and tired. But when we came back, Notre Dame hadn't wilted at all." 
Neither had the Seminoles running attack, which continued to dominant. Dunn and Rock Preston continued to burst through the Irish front seven, despite several Irish blitzes to counter their sucess. Dunn finished with 163 yards on 29 carries, while Preston totaled 165 on 12 attempts. 
"We thought they would pass more," Notre Dame defensive coordinator Bob Davie said. "We spent a lot of time preparing for their three-and four-wide receiver formations. 
"Those were two big-time tailbacks. We also missed a bunch of tackles." 
Notre Dame's running game surfaced in the second, added by the return of Lee Becton and Ray Zellars from injury. Becton gained 46 of his 84 yards in the second half, including a 21-yard option run on which led to Mayes' scoring catch. 
After Dunn's scoring run, Notre Dame had a chance with 2:45 showing on the clock. But after a one-yard run by Randy Kinder and a pair of incomple­tions, Notre Dame was forced to go for it on fourth down from its own 28. Powlus rolled to his left but couldn't find an open receiver. He tucked the ball and headed for the first down marker. He was hit right at the marker and a drawn out measurement took place next the Florida State sidelines. 
As the referee raised his hands to show Notre Dame was inches short, you couldn't help put mourn for Powlus, who finished 9-of-22 for 83 yards, for Holtz who seemed to need this win as much as his team, and for the underdog, even if it was Notre Dame. 

• GRADED POSITION ANA!.YSIS 
Quarterbacks-D Powlus finally learned to avoid sacks. Unfortunately, he avoided them by throwing interceptions. Also, he should have made more of an effort to reach the sticks when he scrambled on a key fourth down. 
Running backs-B+ Becton showed flashes of last season, Zellars of this season; but more than flashes are needed to beat a team like Florida State 
Wide receivers-C Mr. Clutch made his usual appearance. Stafford should have shone, but was silenced. Minus Mayes, this group was MIA 
Offensive line-B Line showed definite improvement. After adjustments, they blocked well enough for Becton to pick his way through. Powlus was sacked just once, but he's probably not too grateful for his cloudy head. 
Defensive line-C Allowed 332 rushing yards. Only a sack by Gibson and a few key stops saved them from a worse grade. 
Linebackers-C Put good pressure on Kannel! with blitzing, but Preston and Dunn ran embar­rassed their tackling skills. 
Secondary-C+ No excuse for the 49-yard bomb that set up the winning TO. Magee got beat 
bigger than Purdue's drum.  Bobby Taylor's big play the only bright spot for  
this bunch.  
Special teams-C  

Quite possibly, if the PAT was good, the defense would have had the momen­tum to stop the final drive. Except for one, the punts were good and the returns were decent. 
Coaching-B-Passing plays over the middle have become nonexistent Blitz package kept Kannel! dazed and confused for three quarters, but at the cost of giving up over 300 yards on the ground and giving the offense only 25 minutes of pos­session time. 
Overall GPA =2.26 In this bowl-like game, a decent effort was overshadowed by glaring mistakes. Not many expected the Irish to be where they were in the fourth quarter, but that doesn't make up for the fact that they wasted a great chance to pull the upset. 
page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Monday, November 14, 1994 
•
Taylor revives to spark Irish defense 

Fumble recovery keeps Irish within striking distance 
By TIM SHERMAN Assistanr Sports Editor 
Bobby Taylor has always been one to talk, and Saturday he had, what he thought to be, the perfect moment to do so. 
After Derrick Mayes' 11-yard scoring grab tied the score at 16-16 with 5:17 left in the game, the Notre Dame side­lined erupted like Bourbon Street during Mardi Gras. 
But while his teammates shared slaps and hits, Taylor did his own form of cel­ebration. 
The junior cornerback strolled 15 yards off the Irish sideline and screamed across to the Seminole bench. Taylor has always been vocal, but this was beyond his typical chit-chat with oppos­ing receivers. 
For what seemed like an eternity, Taylor barked at the Seminoles and watched as they sulked deep into their benches. 
But then ... 
Scott Cengia missed the ensuing extra point and Taylor got his taunts returned. lie retreated to the depths of the Irish sideline. 
"The momentum switched and they capitalized," Lou Holtz said. 
It took the confidence and maybe the edge from Taylor and the Irish defense. On the next play Kez McCorvey beat safety Brian Magee for a 49-yard gain to the Irish 19 yard line. Three plays later Warrick Dunn scored the game winner on a five-yard run. 
"I was expecting the post-corner, but he went back to the post," Magee, a Largo, Fla. native , said. "It was a good move." 
"We just had too many mental lapses," said Holtz. "We discombobulated their passing game but they hit us with a big one.. " 
"It was a gutsy call,"' Kannell said about his pass to McCorvey. "And the right one." 
It was the second time Saturday that Taylor had words with Seminole play­ers. In the first half, he supplied Notre Dame with it's only offense when he sacked Seminole Kannell, forcing a fum­ble, and then carried the loose ball 57 yards to the endzone. The final 15 yards were spent doing an adequate Deion Sanders strut. 
After climbing out from under cele­brating players, Taylor screamed back at Florida State as he walked back to the sidelines. 
"This was the first game I've been able to blitz all season," Taylor said. "This season has gone so slow. Last year , it seemed like I was making a big play every game. I thought that play would turn the whole game around." 
It didn't. But it was a turn around for Taylor. It was his finest game of the sea­son, and not so coincidentally his first since Michigan at full-strength. 
A broken bone in his right hand had soaked away some of his aggression before Saturday. But his hand appeared fine, particularly on his touchdown run when he corralled the loose ball with his bad hand. 
But Taylor's performance couldn't overshadow a poor showing by the Irish defense. · 
The allowed the Seminoles to amass 332 yards rushing and when they had the opportunity to stop Florida State late in the game but did the exact opposite. Magee found himself chasing McCorvey and the Irish continue the search for 
respect. 


• SCORING SUMMARY 
Notre Dame  0  7  3  6  16  
Florida State  0  9  7  7  23  
TEAMSTATS  NO  FSU  
First downs  11  27  
Rushes-yards  33-136  36-332  
Passing yards  63  165  
Comp-att-int  9-22-2  14-27-0  
Return yards  126  122  
Punts-average  5-39.2  4-36.6  
Fumbles-lost  0-0  2-2  
Penalties-yards  1-5  1-10  
Possession time  25:23  34:37  

7. Colorado 9-1-0 1237 7 8. Florida St. 8-1-0 1176 8 
FIRST QUARTER Notre Dame 0, Florida State 0 

9. TexasA&M 9-0-1 1024 9 10. Colorado St. 9-1-0 927 10 
SECOND QUARTER Florida State 3, Notre Dame 0 

11. Kansas 7-2-0 870 11 
(11 plays, 59 yards, 5:02) 
10:51-Dan Mowry connected on a 20-yard field goal. Key Plays: 

12.0regon 8-3-0 856 15 
13. Southern Cal. 7-2-0 821 17 
Warrick Dunn's four rushes for 28 yards.

14. Virginia Tech. 8-2-0 741 16 
Florida State 6, Notre Dame 0 

15. Michigan 7-3-0 686 19 
(9 plays, 58 yards, 2:46) 
7:07-Mowry hit a 30-yard field goal. Key Play: Rock Preston's 46 

16. Virginia 7-2-0 528 21 
17. Boston College 6-2-1 477 25 
yard run to the Notre Dame 26. 

18. Washingotn 7-3-0 434 22 

Notre Dame 7, Florida State 6 2:45-Bobby Taylor forced a fum­

19.Arizona 7-3-0 334 13 
ble, recovered it and ran 57 yards for the touchdown (Scott Cengia

20. Bringham Young 9-2-0 303 23 
PAT).

21. Utah 8-2-0 302 12 
Florida State 9, Notre Dame 6 

22. Oregon St. 8-3-0 238 
{8 plays, 66 yards, 2:44) :01-Mowry kicked a 19-yard field

23. Mississippi St. 7-3-0 230 20 
goal. Key Play: Preston's 21-yard run to the Irish two.

24. Duke 8-2-0 204 18 25.N. Carolina 7-2-0 174 
Crockett 6-32, Ellison 1-6, McMillon 2-3. 
PASSING • Notre Dame: Powlus 9-22-63-2 TD. Florida State: Kannell14-27-165-0. 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Mayes 4-36 TD, Becton 2-14, Mosley 2-11, Zellars 1-20. 
· Florida State: McCorvey 6-96, Ellison 4-54, Crockett 3-27, Cooper 1-6. 
TACKLES-Notre Dame: Davis 10, Sample 
9. Magee 6, Wooden 7, Wynn 7, Taylor 6 (1 sack, 1 fum. rec. TO). Gibson 4 (1 sack), Saddler 3, Covington 3, Holden 3, Goheen 3, Tatum 2. Maiden 2, Berry 2 (1 sack), Dansby 2, Cobbins 1, Nau 1. Grasmanis 1, Bennett 1, Kinder 1, Kramer 1, Bergmann 1, Edwards 1, Belisle 1. Florida State: Da. Bush 9, Fuller 6, Alexander 7, Brooks 5 (1 in!.). Roberson 5, Battles 3, Cowart 3, Roye 3, De. Bush 2 (1 
THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame 10, Florida State 9 (12 plays, 51 yards, 5:58) 4:40-Cengia put Notre Dame ahead with a 39-yard field goal. Key Play: Lee Becton took a screen pass to the Florida State 35. 
Florida State 16, Notre Dame 10 (5 plays, 65 yards, :53) :02-Preston scampered 28 yards for a score (Mowry PAT). Key Plays: Danny Kanell hit O'Mar Ellison with a 17-yard pass to the Notre Dame 28. 
FOURTH QUARTER Notre Dame 16, Florida State 16 (9 plays, 74 yards, 4:38) 5:17-Ron Powlus hit Derrick Mayes with a 11-yard pass (PAT failed). Key Play: Becton's 21-yard run to the Florida State 19. 
Florida State 23, Notre Dame 16 2:53-Warrick Dunn scored on a five-yard run. Key Play: Kanell's 58­yard pass to Kez McCorvey on the first play of the drive. 
Kelly 

continued from page I 
reason is, but it's something we have to fix." 
That's been the theme around here for more than a month now. Remember when Irish coach Lou Holtz vowed to "get this goddawg thing turned around," after the loss to Boston College in October? 
He wasn't necessarily talking about this sea­son, but Holtz has tried a variety of players in different positions, searching for a solution. 
But for all the tinkering, the engine has hardly sputtered. And with the offense stalling on series after series Saturday, the Irish shouldn't have been in the game. 
Notre Dame owes Florida State a debt of grati­tude for keeping it close. Deep in Irish territory, the Seminole offense-driven by a surprisingly strong running game-crashed. 
Florida State quarterback Danny Kanell should have been Notre Dame's defensive MVP. Twice Kanell fumbled, once offering the ball to Bobby Taylor on the way to the turf, giving Taylor 57 yards to roam for a touchdown. 
Taylor typifies Notre Dame's downfall. A Thorpe Award finalist and a game-breaker full of interceptions and big hits a year ago, he has been off his game for much of 1994. 
"The season has been going so slow," Taylor said. "Last year, it seemed like I made a big play in every game." 
Last year. Big plays were plentiful. 
This year. Many plays are pitiful. 
A missed extra point and the feeble final drive when a woozy Ron Powlus fell, perhaps under the weight of his own unequaled expectations, made Notre Dame look nothing like its myth. 
A myth that made people believe, even in this unsavory season, that Notre Dame will win sim­ply because it is Notre Dame. 
But more and more, this Notre Dame team looks nothing like Notre Dame. Last year at this time, the Irish were celebrat­ing their newly acquired No. 1 status. 
This year, at season's dusk, the Irish find themselves not fighting for a national champi­onship, but for a spot in an insignificant bowl where they won't belong. 
This is the wreckage that one year has wrought. 
TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Nebraska (39) 11-0-0 1527 1 2. Penn St (23) 9-0-0 1509 2 3. Florida 8·1·0 1351 4 4. Alabama 10-0-0 1332 6 5. Miami 8-1-0 1285 5 6. Auburn 9-0-1 1240 3 
• STATISTICS 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 
INDIVIDUAL STATS RUSHING-Notre Dame: Becton 15-64, Kinder 6-21, Edwards 2-15, Zellars 5-14, Powlus 4-7, Mosley 1-(minus 3). Florida State: Preston 12-165 TO, Dunn 29-163 TD. 

-
Monday, November 14, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 4 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
Lou Holtz has a word for assistant coach Mike Trgovac . 

The Observer/Cynthia Exonde 

Ron Powlus lunges for extra yardage on a crucial fourth down play. 

• fROM THE lENS 
Florida State 23 Notre Dame 16 
Florida Citrus Bowl November 12, 1994 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Shawn Wooden converges on Seminole running back Rock Preston. 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
Lyron Cobbins pressures Florida State quarterback Danny Kanell. 

Monday, November 14, 1994 page 11 
The Art of Coffee 
More people are enjoying java on and off-campus 

egend has it that an Arabian teacher first gave coffee to his monks to keep them awake during evening 
devotions. Ever since its discovery. the popularity of the beverage has increased, and people, especially stu­dents. still use it to help keep them awake. 
Coffee is a tropical evergreen shrub whose roasted seeds are brewed with water to make the beverage consumed by about one-third of the world's popu­lation. Total consumption of coffee is greater than any other beverage except tea, with the United States as the largest consumer. 
Historically, coffee houses have been a popular center for social. literary, and political gathering that foster open dis­cussion. Today, people flock to these 
places for many of the same reasons and for the taste of the coffee. 
Many col­lege students begin drink­ing coffee after their first round of midterms. 

"I always drank coffee before, but I never drank it in such mass quantities as I do here," said Tara Lynch, a Cavanaugh senior. "I don't even drink it to keep me awake anymore. Now the 

drink too much , but I think that there is something to this addiction thing. I smell it and I get happy." 
Fodor purchases a specially ground coffee in New Orleans and makes it in her room, but on occasion she will stop by Allegro on campus for a cup. 
"It helps before exams to keep you up­especially on cold days," according to gourmet coffees at South Dining Hall have received a good response. 
"Students really loved it," according to student manager Jill Satanek. "We have gotten lots of compliments (on the gourmet coffees). Many people have said that they come to South Dining Hall just for the coffee." 
For those who do not have time to sit down and eat, the gourmet coffees are 
' ~offee helps before exams to keep you up-especially on ~cold days. For chocolate lovers, I would definitely recom­mend the cafe mocha.' 
Marty Vela, off-campus junior 
Marty Vela, an off-campus junior who now available at the grab and go works at Allegro, the coffee house in the counter. lower level of LaFortune. "A lot of peo-The most popular flavors on campus ple drink the decaffeinated just for the include the Amaretto and the Irish taste. My personal favorite is the Cream. There is the possibility of a cap­Bavarian chocolate." pucino machine in the dining hall if 
"0 D students request it, but it would 
Allegro has several options -g, ~~C\. not be until next year before for coffee-drinkers. They sell C, \.) ~ such a change could be it by the cup or by the pound (-,.) RJp Q made, according to Satanek. 
and have a long list of avail-~ 
s 

able flavors including Irish Clarissa Dalloway's Cream, Kona Blend, Kahlua 1 f\. f"14~ Coffehouse on Saint Mary's and Cream, and French \J~" ~N campus has been offering Vanilla Nut. students an alternative 0 "0 source of coffee and entertain­"Suprisingly, it's often cheaper }... ment for several years. The stu­
to buy coffee by the pound here," according to Vela. "The most popular flavors are the Italian Roast and Irish Cream." 
For those who have never tried spe­cialty coffee, Vela has some advice. 
'~he more coffee one drinks, the more intense the conver­---sation.' 
Teresa Greenwood, manager of Cafe Capote 

caffeine doesn't even affect me. We drink all kinds of coffee except decaf."" 
Some people begin to drink coffee for its effects, but continue to drink it for the taste. 
"I started to drink it to stay awake-it worked like a charm," said Suzy Fodor, a senior in Lewis. "I make myself not 
"For chocolate-lovers, I would defi­nitely recommend the cafe mocha," he said. "Otherwise, I would start with a regular blend like the Irish Cream. The espresso is almost like a straight shot of caffeine." 
For those coffe-drinkers who live on­campus at Notre Dame, the new 
dent run coffehouse attracts many students from both campuses because of its casual atmosphere and good cor­fee. 
While there are increasingly more options for the coffee drinker on cam­pus, the off campus coffee houses such as RJ's and Cafe Capote continually draw students looking for good coffee and conversation. 
"The reason why people enjoy our cof­feehouse is that we offer an outlet, an intellectual place," according to Teresa Greenwood, manager of Cafe Capote, a coffee house restaurant located in the second floor of 100 Center on Lincoln way. 
She describes the atmosphere as that of the old time coffee houses offering plenty of visual stimulation such as orig­inal murals and tables hand painted by employees and a wide variety of enter­tainment. 
Monday through Saturday evenings, Cafe Capote offers numerous coffee spe­cials. The Wednesday '"Study Hall" with a bottomless coffee special is popu­lar with students who enjoy the refills. The open readings on Thursday and open jam on Fridays offer the customers a chance to participate in the entertain­ment. 
The two most important aspects of the coffeehouse experience are the conver­sation and, of course, the coffee. 
"The more coffee one drinks, the more intense the conversation," said Greeenwood. "We offer a variety of cof­fee, but the most popular is the choco­latchino-a coff cup like a soup bowl served with a chocofate chip cookie." 
Most of the coffee shops also have a variety of foods on the their menu. RJ's Espresso Shoppe on Washington in downtown South Bend serves gourmet sandwiches, pastries, soups and salads and has lunch and dinner specials. 
For those who have been drinking cof­fee for years or for those simply looking to experiment, there are plenty of options. 

A 

--, 
~ 
The Obserwr/Eric Bailey 

More people on campus are drinking coffee. Allegro is a popular place for specialty coffees, especially the espresso. Here an Allegro employee prepares cappucino, a special dark roast Italian blend. 
•
•I 
l I Monday, November 14, 1994
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS
I 
' l • NFL RouND UP 
I 
I I 49er's show Cowboy's three-peat won't be easy
I 
By RICHARD ROSENBLATT Parcells said. "It was a valiant Vikings took a 20-0 lead late in behind the Chargers in the AFC and produced a 23-yard score Associated Press effort. We were on the ropes the first. West. in the frrst period. 
big time." Bledsoe broke the record of Steve Walsh, 5-0 as a starter, 
For intrigue, San Francisco Blake, meanwhile, added 68 pass attempts (Houston's Saints 33, Falcons 32 was 18 of 27 for 188 yards. Dan showed Dallas it won't have another amazing game to his George Blanda, 1964) and 42 At New Orleans, Morten Marino was 24 of 38 for 289 another easy road to the Super brief resume with his coura­completions (the Jets' Richard Andersen kicked his sixth yards, one TD and one inter­Bowl. For excitement, there geous performance in Todd, 1980). game-winning field goal against ception.
I 
was Drew Bledose and Jeff Cincinnati. Atlanta (5-5), this one from 39
I 
Blake. "I wasn't coming out," Blake yards with eight seconds left, to Browns 26, Eagles 7 
I I While the 49ers' defense held said. "They were going to have Bengals 34, Oilers 31 lift New Orleans (4-6). Cleveland's defense shut I the Cowboys' offense in check to drag me off. My ankle was Blake was blessed again in Mario Bates, making his first down Randall Cunningham, 
I en route to a 21-14 victory over sprained and every time I got leading the Bengals (2-8) to NFL start, ran for 141 yards Matt Stover kicked four field I goals and Mark Rypien added a
the two-time Super Bowl cham­hit I aggravated it. But I was their second straight win and and two TDs as he helped New 
I pions on Sunday, Bledsoe set leaving Houston (1-9) as the Orleans come back from a 17-3-yard TD pass to Mark Carrier
able to come to the sideline, 
as the Browns (8-2) won for the
I NFL records for completions cool down and go back out and NFL's worst team. point halftime deficit. I and attempts in leading New Blake (23 of 33 for 354 yards) Norm Johnson had six field seventh time in eight games. 
I play." I England to a 26-20 overtime bounced off the X-ray table and goals for the Falcons, with a The Browns held the Eagles I win over Minnesota. led two late drives on his 30-yarder giving Atlanta a 32-(7-3) to 288 yards as the AFC 
And a hobbling Blake finished 49ers 21, Cowboys 14 bruised left ankle. As Houston 30 lead with 1:44 left. Central leaders ended with four TO passes, came off At San Francisco, After took a 31-24 lead with 5:51 on Jim Everett was 28 of 36 for Philadelphia's seven-game
I· 
the X-ray table with a sprained Emmitt Smith (26 carries, 78 Billy Joe Tolliver's 5-yard TD 276 yards and two TDs. Jeff home winning streak. ankle and hit a 50-yard pass to yards) scored on a 7 -yard run, pass to Webster Slaughter, George was 29 of 48 for 228 Cunningham, whose streak of set up Doug Pelfrey's last-play, Young scored from a yard out Blake was in the locker room yards and a TD for Atlanta. winning starts at Veterans 
Stadium was stopped at 20, was
40-yard field goal in a 34-31 as the half ended tied at 7. Rice being X-rayed. Cardinals 10, Giants 9 
victory over Houston. He came back to a standing Steve Beuerlein found Bryan 22 of 38 for 195 yards. He had
then broke free for his 57 -yard 
The game of the year TO reception -his 133rd ovation. Carl Pickens turned a Reeves on a 9-yard TD pass an interception and also lost a between the Cowboys (8-2) and career TO -and Young added one-handed catch into a game­with 1:39 remaining to rally fumble. 49ers (8-2) didn't have all the another TO pass -13 yards tying 20-yard TD reception with Arizona (4-6). The Cardinals, Eagles linebacker Byron 
pizzaz of some other games, 2:34 left. Blake, taking over with their first win at Giants Evans broke a leg in the second 
Brent to Jones to offset Smith's 
but Merton Hanks intercepted second TO, a 2-yard run with with 1:13 left, then drove the Stadium since 1983, were down quarter and is out for the sea­two of Troy Aikman's passes 1:20 to go. Bengals from their 11 into posi­9-0 at the half. But Greg Davis son. and Steve Young had a 57-yard Aikman was 23 of 42 for 339 tion for the winning field goal kicked a 45-yard field goal in TD pass to Jerry Rice in the yards with three interceptions. with completions of 31 yards to the third quarter and the Raiders 20, Rams 17 
third quarter that put San Young was 12 of 21 for 183 Harold Green and 50 yards to Cardinals held New York to 56 At Anaheim, Calif., Jeff Francisco ahead for good at 14-yards and ran for 60 more. Pickens, who had 11 catches yards in the second half. Hostetler, removed in the 
7. for 188 yards and three TDs. Graham was 9 of 26 for 92 fourth quarter with a sprained 
"You don't win champi­yards, with a touchdown and big left toe, threw first-half TO onships until January," Hanks Patriots 26, Viking 20 an interception. Beuerlein was passes of 27 yards to Andrew said. "We'll see what happens Bledsoe's performance was Chargers 14, Chiefs 13 17 of 33 for 180 yards. Glover and 10 yards to Rocket in January." even more stunning in that it At Kansas City, San Diego (8-Ismail. Jeff Jaeger added 
fourth-quarter field goals of 44 
At Foxboro, Mass., Bledsoe's came against the Vikings (7-3), 2) bounced back from a 13-0 Bears 17, Dolphins 14 14-yard scoring pass to Kevin one of the NFL's best defensive deficit late in the third quarter At Miami, Kevin Butler kicked and 4 7 yards for the Raiders (5­Turner 4:10 into OT brought teams. when Stan Humphries (21 of 36 a 40-yard field goal with 59 5). New England back from a 20-With the Patriots (4-6) trailing for 206 yards) threw TD passes seconds left and Pete The Rams (4-6) also lost their point deficit. Bledsoe, ineffec­20-10, Bledsoe threw a 5-yard of 52 yards to Sean Jefferson, Stoyanovich of Miami (7 -3) quarterback when Chris tive the past two weeks, set TO pass to Leroy Thompson and 5 yards to Duane Young missed a 45-yarder with two Chandler left in the second league marks of 45 completions with 2:21 left in the fourth with 6:41left in the game. seconds left as the Bears (6-4) quarter with a sprained ankle 
and 70 attempts in throwing for quarter. The Patriots tied it on Joe Montana (20 of 46 for 178 hung on. after completing 10 of 11 pass­426 yards and three touch­Matt Bahr's 23-yard field goal yards) was intercepted by Chicago got one of the NFL's es for 171 yards and a 22-yard downs. with 14 seconds left. Darren Carrington, who took more bizarre TDs, off a fake­TD pass to Willie Anderson. 
"Right now, we've got a Warren Moon {26 of 42 for the ball to the Chiefs' 8 to set field goal when receiver Curtis Chris Miller was ineffective bunch of guys feeling pretty 349 yards) had a 65-yard TO up the winning points. The Conway's deflected pass ended except for a 4-yard score to good," Patriots coach Bill pass to Qadry Ismail as the Chiefs (6-4) fell two games up in Keith Jennings' hands Todd Kinchen with 1:27 left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. ar the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 

Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cems per character per day, including all spaces. 
Wanted on Video UPSTAIRS APT.• 3 LQ. BR. • I NEED 1 AF stud or GA Need 2 Air Force GAs Complete classic basketball game KITCHEN, BATHROOM. ALL UTIL· KERRY 4879 call Pat x2213
NOTICES TICKETS
from 1974 between UCLA and ITIES INCLUDED. PRIVATE Notre Dame (upset game). It was PARKING & ENTRANCE, 4·5-6 I need Air Force tixll!l Please Call 
PERSONAL
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS the game In which Notre Dame STUDENTS OK. $500/MO. + $500 I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. x3830 Did I mention that I will final­10-6m-sat pandora's books finally ended UCLA's 88 game win­DEPOSIT. CALL DOUG MILLIKEN 272-6551 ly go out with the 3B six-man lately NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat ning streak. Contact Ed Ramos, 288-7319 ANYTIME. 1517 1/2 I've been a wuss. Notre Dame's Traditional Irish Band 233-2342 cool stuff cool store P.O. Box 340662. Hartford. CT LWW. NEXT DOOR TO VITO"S FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL ... Seamaisin .... 1st CD at the 
06134·0662 BARBER SHOP. HOME GAMES. 272-7233. Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas Anybody need a ride to St. Louis for $ HELPI Need Air Force GA's $ Thanksgiving? rm leaving I NEED AF GA's call x3882 
FOR SALE

Wednesday (11/23) at 2pm. If Inter­HURRYI MGMT. POSITIONS DAVE 634-1198 Ask For Miss Debartolo YOU WILL BE VISITED BY THREE 
ested. call Alex at X3946. FILLING QUICKLY. T.A.S.P. SPIRITS INTERNATIONAL SEEKS Spring Break Early Specials/ Need two Air Force GAs Leslie 273-I NEED 2 AF GAs OR STUD TIXI MOTIVATED APPLICANTS. Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12 9303 CALL LISA 272-6460 
ILOST & FOUND I 

EARN $8-10 THOUSAND meals $2791 Panama City 'KIWI' NEXT SUMMER RUNNING A Oceanview Kitchens $129/ Cancun need 6 USC tix desperately FOOTBALL N0.58= HANDS OFFI $40,000 BUSINESS. GREAT & Jamaica $3991 Daytona $1591 Need 2 A/F GA's call x4084 ask 4 pia (15 yard penalty for offensive 
I I

WANTED RESUME BUILDER. CONTACT Keys $229! CocoaBeach $159! 1-Andy 289-3736 interference) • the ball handle 
MICHAEL WILLIS AT 1-800-543-800-678-6386 Help I NEW SKETCH COMEDY GROUP 3792 OR X2040. AF. SO. CAL GA'S FOR SALE. I need one Air Force student ticket Wizard imps and sweat sock pimps. ALA MONTY PYTHON. SNL. 288·1186. or GA for my sister. Call Brian at intersteallar mongrel nymphs. NEEDS WRITERS AND ACTORS EA HOCKEY for IBM 277·5720 OPENING MEETING 1994 players with trades, etc ... -HELP-Murray-
FOR RENT
9PM WED 11/15 MONTGOMERY almost brand new, has all books $$$ I NEED$$$ NEED STUD OR GA TIX FOR AF. If you wanted to get your picture in THEATER. LA FORTUNE and the registration form. AIR FORCE GA"S CALL KEVIN 289-0714. the paper. the least you guys could OR CALL MARK 271-1400 THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, best offer; call Tom at 4-1712 CALL GARY 277·9279 have done is beat the lousy sopho­
NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED NEED 2 AF GA's. Chris x3407 moresl I can't promise anything, but TRAVEL FREE/ SPRING BREAK BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO '93 Camero Z28. 6-speed. I need 2 Air Force GAsllll Call I'll see what I can do. '951 LOWEST PRICES/ JAMAICA. NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE pw. pdl, abs. Clarion Kevin@ 271-7284 I NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S Tyler CANCUN. FLORIDA. PADRE. OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219-CD player, alatm. 10k miles 288-9750 BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1 773-2034 never seen winter. $18,000. NEED 2 Air Force GA's­Happy Birthday ORGANIZE GROUP.TRAVEL Call4-1970 Call Mary Heather @ 4-2509. Need Ticketslll Shawn and Shannon I FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURS1· 4 Air Force GA's from 800·426·7710 WANTED: LAW/MBA/GRAD 4 Sale Notebook 486 OX 33MHz Need A. F. Tix ·stu or GAs Call Sean at 4·0602 the LINEBACKER Queen 
STUDENT TO SHARE 240HD 8 mem 16 gray monitor with Mark 289·6988 LOCAL CONSULTING FIRM FURNISHED APT FOR SPRING mouse and case $1200 also 2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235-3394 Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break SEEKS SALESIMKTG. ASST. FOR SEMESTER. Desktop 386DX 33MHz 80MD I need 2 AF GA's. Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 94/95 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL 273·6418 FOR MORE INFO 4mem with SVGA monitor. fax. Call X0718. NEED air force tix:2studs & 2 GAs 1 (800)359·9808 
FLEX. HAS. modem, handscaner, and tape call shannon x4236 
HOURLY WAGE & COMM. backup $500 call 272-1663 Need 3 Air Force Stu. Tlx Kidde. GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO GAIN Looking for a male I female room­Bill271-9471 $$$$Help. I need Air Force Tickets. 4 days and 2000 miles. that"s ail. VALUABLE SALES EXP. mate at Castle Point. For Sale: Fender Strat-$300 Please call Gina at 277-0740.$$$ And thanks for the tape, it's neatol 
(219) 256·9546. $ 280/mo + all utilities. with cable Call233·5130 ........... PLEASE HELP!********* An lllinios Farmer 
TV, until may of "95 I NEED 2 AIR FORCE TICKETS Needed: Two tickets for AF game ATTENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF· call272-1663 FOR SALE: IBM compatible 486, CALL CHRISSY x3098 -THANKS for my sister and her friend. Both Delilah and Hilarya are 19 MOTIVATED Students. The w/color monitor, keyboard. mouse Please call Roger at x0959. years and one week old todayllll ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. loaded with software-microsoft currently interviewing students for FALL 95. 272-6306 office.windows.lotus, harvard I NEED AF GA's NEED 2 AirForce GA's KATE Why is it that they have braille dots Summer '95 management posi­graphics·$900 or best offer ·X0640 Call Brian 4·1861 x4898 at drive-up bank machines? tions. Earn money in excess of 1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL­Mooooooolf $10.000. Call now. 1·800-477·1001 ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES 1way plane ticket to Boston for I need 2, 3 or 5 AF GAs Need Air Force tix for a campus representative. 272·6306 Dec20-best offer-JP@4013 Rob x1816 call Chris x3767 Kate. no more talk about school. 
----··-.. -· 

Monday, November 14,1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL •NBA 
George's intuition proves correct 
By STEVE HERMAN Ohio State {8-3, 5-2 Big Ten) closes the Hoosiers' last drive. 
Associated Press season at home against No. 15 Michigan on Indiana's four-game losing streak is its 
Saturday. Indiana {5-5, 2-5) takes a four-longest since 1985. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. game losing streak into its windup at "Defensively, we just couldn't get them 
Eddie George glanced at his Ohio State Purdue. stopped on third down," Indiana coach Bill teammates and knew it didn't matter what "Third-down conversions ... that was the Mallory said. "We didn't have a whole lot Indiana's defense tried to do. key to the second half," said Hoying, noting of opportunities offensively, and when we 
The Buckeyes were going to get a touch­the Buckeyes were successful on 8-of-11 did, we didn't get it done." down, he said. It was that simple. third-down plays after leading only 19-17 Dittoe, whose only other career start was 
"I wasn't really too concerned, or really at halftime. They had six straight third-against Ohio State last year when Paci was worried about Indiana," George said after down conversions on their clinching touch-injured, was 20-for-35 for 182 yards. He Saturday's 32-17 victory. "I was just look­down drive that started late in the third was sacked three times for losses of 27 ing around the huddle and seeing a bunch quarter and ended with a 2-yard TD pass yards and came into the postgame inter­of guys with confident faces, knowing we from Hoying to Rickey Dudley on the third view room with an ice pack on his left were going to go down and score. play of the fmal period. shoulder and a brace on his right knee. 
"It's something we're building on, some­
"We started on our own 14-yard line and "When they got a shot at me, I think it thing we're gaining confidence in each ate up a lot of clock," Hoying said. "There was the hardest shot they could ever take," week," he said of the victory, which el­were some big third-down conversions Dittoe said. "At least it felt that way."evated the Buckeyes into the No. 22 spot in there. That's what we're going to need Indiana tailback Alex Smith had 98 the new Associated Press poll. against Michigan. yards, giving him 1,230 for the season, 10 
George rushed for 118 yards and two "But we're playing with confidence yards short of the Big Ten freshman rush­first-half touchdowns. Joey Galloway also now," he said. ing record set by Minnesota's Darrell scored on a 93-yard kickoff return, the Indiana started sophomore Chris Dittoe Thompson in 1986. George, who marked Buckeyes' first first-half touchdown on the at quarterback in place of John Paci, hop-his eighth 100-yard game of the season, road all season, and Bobby Hoying passed ing to get more offensive production. Dittoe now has 1,272 yards, fifth-best by an Ohio for the final two touchdowns in the fourth passed 13 yards to Ajamu Stoner for a 7-0 State player. quarter. lead and scored himself on a 1-yard sneak "I love the game. I love college football," 
"I see the offense developing and matur­in the second period. the Buckeye junior said. "And I knew today ing. At the beginning of the season we were But a sack and fumble by Dittoe set up was a crucial win. We had to come out with young, we were in many situations like Ohio State's final touchdown, a 20-yard a win. I just wanted to be a part of it, that. Today we just got the job done," pass to Chris Sanders, and an interception whether it was running, blocking, doing George said. off Dittoe by Shawn Springs ended the something." 
• PROFESSIONAL TENNIS 
Navratilova wraps up long career 
By BOB GREENE to the Garden ceiling, where it will join the Other first-round matches pit Wimbledon Associated Press retired-numbers for New York Knicks and champion Conchita Martinez against New York Rangers players. Natalia Zvereva, fourth-seeded Jana NEW YORK "It has been quite a ride for everybody," Novotna against Iva Majoli of Croatia, No. 5 
Wrapping up a career that has spanned Navratilova said. Mary Pierce against South Africa's Amanda 21 years and 167 tournament titles, Monday night, she will team with Manon Coetzer and No. 7 Lindsay Davenport Martina Navratilova would like nothing Bollegraf of the Netherlands in a first­against Germany's Anke Huber. better than to rekindle the old magic one round doubles match. They will face Jill A rib injury already has knocked one more time. Hetherington of Canada and Shaun player out of the elite field: Bulgaria's
And there's no more fitting place to do it Stafford. Magdalena Maleeva. She was replaced by than the Virginia Slims Championships at Second-seeded Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, Hack. Madison Square Garden. favored to win her third major title of 1994, One thing will be certain this week: 
This season-ending $3.5 million tourna­also plays Monday night, taking on Julie Navratilova will be the crowd favorite. It ment -which begins Monday evening with Halard. The opening night's program will wasn't always so. eighth-seeded Kimiko Date of Japan taking end with a second doubles -Halard and "If you go back 10-15 years ago, it wasn't on Germany's Sabine Hack --has been Nathalie Tauziat of France against Patty anything like that," said Pam Shriver, who dominated by Navratilova, playing singles Fendick and Meredith McGrath. teamed with Navratilova to dominate for the last time on the WTA Tour. Other first-round singles matches will women's doubles for years. "But they grew 
Navratilova, 38, has won seven singles send top-seeded Steffi Graf against Brenda to know her, and the barriers came down and 11 doubles titles on the Garden carpet Schultz, No. 3 Conchita Martinez against -the barriers of someone with a funnyand four other times reached the singles Natalia Zvereva, No. 4 Jana Novotna name and a funny accent, with a different final. against Iva Majo lifestyle, with muscles and going against 
Navratilova will be honored Tuesday.. Top-seeded Steffi Graf, who has been Chris Evert. evening following her first-round singles plagued by injuries, will play her first "There were a lot of reasons why there match against Gabriela Sabatini. In the match since losing in the U.S. Open final wasn't a connection early on, but there 
post-match tribute to the 38-year-old great, when she takes on Brenda Schultz of the were all those reasons in the end for those a banner bearing her name will be raised Netherlands. barriers to come down." 
Join us to discuss 
TRUE SUCCESS 
&THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT 
With 

PROF. THOMAS MORRIS 
Of the Department of Philosophy 
Monday, November 14 
7:30pm 

Keenan Hall Kommons 
Refreshments will be serve~cz~ 
Mashburn producing for Mavs 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

The Dallas Mavericks, door­mats of the NBA the past two seasons, are not only having fun under coach Dick Motta, they're winning. 
The Mavericks got 50 points from forward Jamal Mashburn and 38 from guard Jim Jackson -career highs for both -in a 124-120 overtime victory over the Bulls at Chicago Saturday, giving Dallas a 3-1 record, including two road victories in two nights. 
That put the Mavs more than two months ahead of schedule for either of the past two sea­sons, when they had embar­rassing records of 11-71 in 1992-93 and 13-69 in 1993-94. 
It's the Mavericks' best start since 1990. 
"Last year was pretty much jail," Jamal Mashburn said. "We're just excited to have new blood and a new coach." 
Motta's not exactly a "new" coach, since at 63 he's the old­est in the NBA and he was the Mavericks' first coach, from 1980-87. But he's new to this team, having been rehired by owner Don Carter to take over the shambles left from last sea­son, when Quinn Buckner had a near-mutiny on his hands. 
"We're supposed to be in a rebuilding year, so why not have fun?" Mashburn said, after Saturday night's victory before 22,195 stunned fans in Chicago's new United Center. 
It was Jan. 29 last season before the Mavericks got their third victory; that also was their first home victory. The previous season, they didn't get their third win until Jan. 19. 
Mashburn's 50 points broke the Mavericks record of 49 set by Mark Aguirre on Jan. 28, 1985, against the Philadelphia 76ers. He did it against peren­nial NBA all-defensive forward Scottie Pippen. 
"I had no idea how many points I had," said Mashburn, who never had scored 50 points in a game at any level. 
"But it wasn't one-on-one out there. It's a collective thing, and if we had lost the game, it {the record) wouldn't have mattered. 
"Coach Motta has put me in a position in the fourth quarter where I'm not tired. I'm post­ing up and not running around the perimeter a lot. The coach got me in the right spots and I wasn't as tired and that was important. I had my legs going towards overtime." 
Mashburn had 44 points after three periods, also a club record, and when the Bulls re­sorted to triple-teaming him, Jackson took over, scoring 16 points during the fourth quar­ter and seven in overtime. 
"Every game around here, feels more like a champi­onship," said forward Popeye Jones, whose 14 points and 15 rebounds Friday night in Dallas' 107-l00 victory over the 76ers at Philadelphia exemplified the Mavericks' new team effort. 

At Washington Hall Wednesday, 
November 16  8 p.m.  
Thursday,  
November 17  8 p.m.  
Friday,  
November 18  8 p.m.  
Saturday,  
November 19  8 p.m.  
Sunday,  
November 20  2:30p.m.  

Reserved Seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 14, 1994 
• MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY • WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Third place enough to send Questions remain 
men to Arkansas, Nationals Irish left 

By KATE CRISHAM 
Sports Writer 
Fayetteville, Arkansas might not seem like an ideal choice for a weekend vacation. 
But it suits the Notre Dame men's cross country team just fine. 
The fifteenth-ranked Irish placed third at the NCAA District IV championships on Saturday to qualify for the national championships in Fayetteville next week. According to head coach Joe Pian e. 
Saturday's performance was a vindication of sorts for his squad, who struggled in several meets earlier in the season. 
"We started off the year ranked pretty high, but then we slipped a little," said Piane. "But there are 280 Division I cross country teams in the nation, and we are one of the 22 teams that qualified for nationals." 
"To me, that's a pretty impressive statistic." he said. "Just to make the NCAAs means you must be a hell of a good team." 
Saturday's success was espe­cially sweet for a team that was expected to su!Ter from loss of graduated senior and four-time All-American Mike McWilliams. 
"Qualifying for nationals has been our goal since June 1, since we first started prepara­tion for the season," he said. "Now we're going to focus on our second goal, which was placing on the top ten, and our third goal, focusing on the top five." 
Senior Nate Ruder was Notre Dame's top finisher, plac­ing ninth with a time of 30:58. He was followed by junior Joe Dunlop, who placed fourteenth, and sophomore Matt Althoff, who garnered 21st. Freshman Jason Hexing placed 30th, fol­lowed by senior John Cowan, who placed 33rd. Junior Derek Martisus and senior Will Clark rounded out the top seven, placing 44th and 52nd, re­spectively. 
Wisconsin won the meet with 33 points, followed by Michigan with 55 points. Notre Dame garnered 107 points to capture the final qualifying spot. 
According to Piane, a tena­cious Illinois squad gave the 
Recycle The Observe 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Norre Dllml! Football Today, reg. $49.,, now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on NO football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634~1740 

wondering after fourth place finish 
By SHANNON O'DONNELL Sports Writer 
Some questions simply have no answers. 
The women's cross-country team discovered this Saturday when they came up with a dis­appointing fourth place finish at the NCAA District IV Championship behind Michigan, Wisconsin and Illinois. 
According to head coach Joe Piane, the team had expected to finish in the top three and possibly secure a position at the NCAA Championships. This was not to be, though, and now all the team can do is ask, why? 
"I am not sure why we didn't do better," assistant coach Tim Connelly said. "You have to ask the girls." 
They, however, did not have any answers either. 
"To be honest. I am not sure why we didn't finish higher." senior Maureen Kelly said. "We fell apart as a team. Some of the runners had trouble getting out at the start. but I really don't think anyone has an an­swer. If we did, it would make it a lot easier." 
Kelly. who placed first for the Irish, finished 11th overall. 
The Obaervllr/Kyte !<.­
Senior John Cowan and the men's Irish cross-country qualified for the NCAA finals next weekend in Fayetteville. 
Have some-·
Irish a scare at the end of the said. 
meet. Both Piane and Martisus 
"I never had any doubt agreed that the Irish have the throughout the season that we potential to perform exception­would qualify for nationals, but ally well next week. 
thing to say?
I had a little doubt around the "I think we're going to have final 8000 yards," he said. "We a real upbeat attitude in prac­knew beforehand that Illinois tice this week," Piane said. would be a team to contend "They're a little tired, but I 
Use
with, and they really did run think they're going to have a very well." real positive attitude." 
Martisus noted that most "I think if you ask anyone, individuals believed the team everyone would agree that we could have performed better. could use more of a team effort 
The Observer 
"We got done what we had to than this Saturday," he said. " get done," said Martisus. "We We can do a lot better, and I were trying to win the meet, think a few guys even have a and we ran well, but not stel­possibility for getting All­lar." American." 
"We're not going to carry "We've run against most of any negatives about it into next the top teams in the nation," week, because we know we're said Martisus. "We know we're capable of a high finish," he capable of doing very well." 
•1mner 1t:t: Diuiri111 1/eai & 'Pre~iitlfl 11 lilfltr, J11c.
Lecture 

•Aff~tlltf & Oral~r 
~WX!X!)~~ ~fXh3 ~ml1 
1uesdav. nollembtr 75
Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C. 
1 pm,librarv Audilorium 
The Theodore M. Hesburgh C.S.C Chair 

Rmplitm immttlialtliJ l,ll,winf in ll11li6rariJ llunft 
Professor, Philosophy 
.. .7.":. -~ "'t"'~_-:·1--~ 
.. ' .~/· -':. , ...: .-·~.~'1.
University of Notre Dame 

"...Tim1 iJ a tlntllflral•tl •ll~rl in 1111r Jl1tiii1J n11l 11nl1J 111 idtnliiiJ and :'; ~,... ··_,,)I~ 
\ ' •'f~ ' . ' I ,

lll,alt dillmnw, 6ul 111 
·~ ." ' Mndmland lhtm 111 lhal pr~lmi11nal 
JUtttu maiJ 6t achieved." ~ 
CULTURES IN CONFLICT: 
FOCUS ON ISLAM 
~·
._ ......,
,......
Tuesday, November 15, 1994 

Sp11nrmd 6v, The lillv 111untlllli'n
4:15p.m. 

~rani, Tht Ollict 11# mullicullural
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 

Sludtnl t11#aiu, and Tltt 13lack law 
l 
•·' 


"I feel terrible about the team's performance. It was a pretty devastating finish for all of us," she said. "I am content with my own performance, but I think once we heard the team scores. it took away any indi­vidual satisfaction." 
Other top runners for Notre Dame were Kristi Kramer, 17th; Kristen Dudas. 25th; Sarah Riley. 39th; and Emily Hood. 52nd. 
"It was horrible. It was just a terrible performance. Three of the kids. ran very well, but our fourth and fifth ran terrible." Connelly said. "We had the op­portunity to go the national championships. We should have at least finished third. Michigan and Wisconsin are great teams. but Illinois is a team we should have beaten easily." 
According to Connelly, Michigan and Wisconsin will advance to the NCAA Championships. Six other teams will receive at-large bids. so Notre Dame does have a chance of qualifying. That chance, however. is slim. 
"We just have to sit and wait for the NCAA to decide who the six teams will be. They should decide sometime Monday." Connelly said. "If we don't go as a team, Maureen has a chance to go as an individual. It is a real shame. This team had the potential to be the best team in the country. Some of the girls just didn't do it when they needed to." 
Sludtnl Amciali11n 
,
EVERYONE WELCOME 
,• 
' 

I 
l -----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

~--~----­
-~----------~-------------,
l 
1 
I
Monday, November 14, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
I I 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL I 
Huskers stay atop polls 
ByCHUCKSCHOFFNER 
Associated Press 
AMES, Iowa 

Nebraska was getting all it could handle from winless Iowa State and Damon Benning's thoughts were taking him somewhere else. 
Iowa State trailed the heavily favored Cornhuskers only 14­12 in the fourth quarter, rekin­dling memories of the Cyclones' upset of Nebraska on the same field two years ago. 
But not for Benning, who scored the clinching touchdown Saturday as Nebraska escaped 28-12. He was thinking about Miami. 
"I think the only flashback I had was to not get beat and that flashback came from the Orange Bowl," he said. "We didn't want anybody to take anything away from us that we 
Wisconsin wins without Moss 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. 

After an emotional week and a win over Cincinnati, it didn't take long for the Wisconsin Badgers to focus on their next goal. 
"Everybody has just shifted their concentration to Illinois," Badgers quarterback Darrell Bevell said after Saturday's 38­7 victory. "To keep everything alive, we have to win next week." 
In other words, any hopes of a bowl invitation will apparent­ly hinge on beating the Illini when the teams meet at Camp Randall Stadium Saturday. 
Wisconsin (5-4-1), shocked by the loss of starting tailback 
At Last, Term Life 
Even though you started celebrating in
at Rates You Can Live With. 
When it comes to protecting the 
financial security of your family or business, term life insurance is one of the best investments you can make. Take a moment to compare these rates with what you are paying now. If your current rates are too high, give us a call. Because we represent several national insurance companies, we are confident we can find the best life insurance value for you. 
How Much Coverage Do You Need? Members of the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
Perhaps you feel you need more life insurance, but you are unsure as to how 

Alexander Blachly, Director
much coverage you should have. Call the Healy Company. We'll help you calcu­late the proper amount of coverage required to meet the needs of your family or 
Sing We Merri{y Unto (jotf
business. We'll also help you structure your life insurance program to avoid pay­ing unnecessary taxes on the proceeds. 
Sacred Songs of Praise by 
William IJyrd, William Lawes, 
Call For Equally Attractive Rates on Any Other 

Richard Preuss, CLU, ChFC Class of '80, '82 
Henry Purcell, Johann Sebastian IJach, Johannes IJrahms &: Olivier Messiaen 
Amount of Desired Coverage. 
w 

Wednesday, November 16, 1994 
at\ THE 2~:~=~s~~~~7~ANY 
South Bend, IN 46634 8:00p.m. 
219-289-4061 
Randy Raclll, CLU, ChFC Classof'8l 


worked so hard for." 
Nebraska, which remained No. 1 in The Associated Press poll Sunday, clinched at least a share of the Big Eight champi­onship and secured a berth in the Orange Bowl, scene of so many Cornhuskers failures in the past. They've lost five straight at Miami, the most recent last Jan. 1. With a national championship on the line, Nebraska missed a field goal on the final play and Florida State won 18-16. 
For three quarters Saturday, this season's national champi­onship hopes were on shaky ground. Tailback Lawrence Phillips was struggling for yardage against a fired up Iowa State defense and the Cyclones trailed by only two points after Todd Doxzon's 58-yard touch­down pass to Calvin Branch with 3:42 left in the third quar-
Brent Moss after his arrest in a drug bust Wednesday night, beat the Bearcats behind 165 yards rushing by tailback Terrell Fletcher. 
Fletcher, a senior, scored twice and topped 1,000 yards rushing for the season for the first time in his career. 
Bevell threw three touchdown passes and became the top ca­reer passer in school history. 
"What happens is that when adversity sets in to a team is that many times they rally around each other," Cincinnati coach Rick Minter said. "Fletcher is a warhorse. I mean he's a true warrior. He's an ironman. He's an excellent run­ning back." 
Fletcher capped a pair of sec­ond-quarter drives with touch­ter. 
But the Cornhuskers pulled way with two fourth-quarter touchdowns. 
"I figured we would see a very emotional situation," Nebraska coach Tom Osborne said. "They gave us a great game. This was their bowl game. But we never lost our poise. You could panic, but I don't think anybody ever did." 
Quarterback Brook Berringer certainly didn't. The Cornhuskers kept running their offense, and Iowa State, last in the Big Eight in total defense, finally cracked. 
"I think the biggest thing for me in this situation was to just show the rest of the team poise and leadership," said Berringer, who threw a 38-yard touchdown pass to Abdul Muhammad in the final minute of the first half. 
downs, running for a 47-yard score and catching a 3-yard TO pass from Beven as the Badgers built a 24-0 halftime lead. 
Fletcher's 22-yard burst on fourth-and-2 from the Cincinnati 49 set up Rick Schnetzky's 27 -yard field goal, and his 4 7 -yard TO scamper made it 17-0 with 8:54 left in the half. 
"There was no difference out there. Although Moss was out, they didn't lose a step with Fletcher in there," Cincinnati cornerback Robert Garnett said. 
"It just felt very good to final­ly play that game," Alvarez said. "It's been a long week and a very emotionally spent week for the coaches and play­ers." 

I 
_4-­
I I 
I 
Annual Premiums for $250,000 Coverage* 
Age  Male  Female  
25 35 45 55 65  $198 $198 $245 $475 $1463  $160 $160 $210 $325 $773  

*Non-tobacco preferred rates Smoker rates available upon request. 

August ('73) we still wanted to wish you a 
"Happy 21st" 
for all to see. 

Love, Mom, Dad & Liz 
The University of Dame Department of Music presents 
The Notre Dame Chorale 
'· 
... 
--------------~~----------------------­page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 14, 1994 
• HOCKEY • VOllEYBAll 
Irish split with Bulldogs Seniors honored in 
By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 


MCC home finale 
It was a weekend of mixed By BETSY BAKER scrappy Panther team put forth 

results for the Notre Dame 

Sports Writer a strong defensive effort withhockey team. 
58 digs. But the Irish used aThe Irish overcame a strong 
The 10th-ranked Notre 
combination of depth and sta­Ferris State defense to earn a Dame volleyball team complet­mina to finish off their unde­
2-1 victory on Friday night 

ed its sweep of the Midwestern feated MCC season.
before falling to the same Collegiate Conference this 

The team was led again byBulldog team 4-1 on Saturday. 
weekend with victories over Harris who had twelve kills,Desperate for their first con­Wisconsin-Green Bay on Friday seven digs, and three serviceference victory, Friday night's night. and La Salle and aces, but the most significantgame proved to be just what Wisconsin-Milwaukee on part of not only the Wisconsin­the doctor ordered. The Irish Saturday. 
Milwaukee match, but all threewere able to control the game The Irish, now 10-0 in the victories this weekend was thatand Ferris State from the open­
conference, 29-2 overall, 
the entire Irish roster saw play­ing face-off to the final buzzer. 
defeated Wisconsin-Green Bay ing time. The only exceptions "It was a great team effort," in three games with scores of were All-American outside hit­
said head coach Ric Shafer. 

15-10, 15-8, and 15-9. 
ter Christy Peters, who had just"We outshot them and had few Freshman outside hitter Angie 
returned to action last week
penalties. There was no period Harris led the team with thir­after being ill and now has a

. -in the game where we were 
teen kills. Sophomore Jenny 
sprained ankle, and junior
struggling." 

Birkner added a strong outside Brett Hensel who played Friday After a scoreless first period, attack with nine kills, and led night. but was nursing a kneeNotre Dame took charge in the the defensive front with twelve injury sustained in the matchopening minutes of the second digs. Birkner also led the team versus La Salle on Saturday.
period. At the 17:19 mark, 

in serving, along with senior 
Irish head coach Debbie
junior center Jamie Ling 

outside hitter Nicole Coates, Brown is pleased with the
received a pass from sopho­

with three service aces each. 
team's performance this week­more left wing Terry Lorenz Saturday afternoon, the Irish end, and is especially happyand slid the puck past Bulldog walked over the last place La 
that so many players got to
goaltender Seth Appert for a 1­Salle team 15-2, 15-2, 15-5. 

play.
0 lead. 

The Irish effort was led by 
"We used a lot of different Harris, who had ten kills, and 
line-ups, which is importantThe Irish held the slim lead 
sophomore outside hitter because it helps each player
for just over ten minutes before Kristina Ervin who contributed gain experience," said Brown. 

FSU right wing Derek Crimin seven kills and five digs. The "That will help us in futuretied the game on a power play 

loss on Saturday left the 
play."
opportunity. Following the 

Explorers without a conference Kristina Ervin had 18 kills score, the Notre Dame defense win and a record of0-10. 
and 18 digs on the_ weekend,put the clamps on the Bulldog On Saturday night, the Irish and freshman Molly McCarthyoffense for the remainder of the The Obeerver/Rob Rnch set the tone for the evening by stopped Irish opponents at the
Jamie Ling and the Irish team split a pair of weekend games at home
evening. 

first honoring the three senior members of the team, co-cap­with Ferris State. net with her 9 kills and 9 total 
blocks. Co-captain Nicole
The score stood at 1-1 until 

drew the starting assignment of the game, and the oppor­tains Nicole Coates and Christy 
Coates was also a key to thethe 7:53 mark in the third peri­
and made the most of it. tunistic Bulldogs converted on Peters; and manager Kevin 
Irish victories. Coates has real­od. Freshman right wing Lyle their chances with two goals in McAward. It was the last regu­ly stepped up and led the teamAndrusiak. searching for the 
"Salzman played really well the second and two more lar season home game this year 
at the end of the season, espe­
outlet pass, found junior 

for us," said Shafer. "He scores in the third period. and in the careers of Coates, 
cially in the absence of Peters. 
defenseman Gary Gruber wide 

wasn't overworked, and for the "The opposition came ready Peters, and McAward. 
Coach Brown agrees that the open on an approach to the net. 
most part, the defense did a to play," said Shafer. "They The Irish completed their 
undefeated conference seasonGruber immediately drilled the 
good job of clearing the zone." won more battles for the loose victorious weekend with a 15-8, 
is very important, especially
puck past the outstretched stick 

Though the game was com­puck than we did, and we failed 15-9, 15-11 sweep of 
going into the MCC tournamentof Appert for the game winning 
petitive, the Bulldogs turned to convert on the power plays." Wisconsin-Milwaukee. The 
next weekend. The first placegoal. 
the tables on the Irish on The road doesn't get any eas­game was unexpectedly chal­
position gives the Irish the No.
The Irish played strong on 

Saturday evening. The lone ier this week, as the team trav­lenging for the Irish as the 
1 seed in the tournament.
both the offensive and defen­

score for the Irish came when els to Western Michigan on 
sive ends, but it was goaltender 

junior David Dal Grande scored Thursday before hosting first 
Mark Salzman who provided 

on a deflected pass from fellow place Bowling Green on Friday.
the shot in the arm that Notre 

defenseman Ben Nelson at the The team will have to build on 
Dame was looking for. With 

8:45 mark of the second period. Friday's victory to have any
Freshman goalie Matt Eisler 

Notre Dame managed just 11 chance of success in the com­
slowed by an injury, Salzman 

shots on goal for the remainder petitive CCHA this season. 
• 
Ski Team-There will be a mandatory meeting for every­one interested in trying out for the ND/SMC ski team on Tuesday, November 15 from 8­9 p.m.. in the Dooley room of LaFortune. Optional dry land training begins today at 10:00 
p.m. in Loftus. 
Interhall team three point contest-The contest will be held on Monday, November 21 at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC. There will be men's and women's divisions with seven members per team. All team members must be from the same hall. Winning teams are to choose one team member to face MCC pre-season player of the year Beth Morgan at half­time of the men's IU vs. ND basketball game. Rosters must be given to RecSports by Thursday, November 17. A captain's meeting will be held on the 17th at 7:00 p.m. For more info. calll-6100. 
Cairo ~visitecf 
Economic and Ethical Implications of Expanding Global Population 
Professor 'iJenis JiL {joufet 
The William and Dorothy O'Neill Professor of Education for Justice Department of Economics 
Wednesday, November 16 7:30pm Keenan Hall Kommons 
All are welcome 


David Mamet, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of "Glengarry Glen Ross," "The Verdid," "The Untouchables," and "Speed -the-Plow," is back with what has become the most talked about 
-and argued about -play of the year. ­Now you can take a seat -and take a side -at 
"A riveting report from the war zone between genders. See OLEANNA!" 
-Jack Kroll, Newsweek 

Wednesday, November 16 
7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium For Tickets Call 219/284-4626 
~ 
L--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, November 14, 1994 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
Neaton, one of the nation's leading scorers. 
In Notre Dame's 4-3 overtime win over the Tribe earlier this season, Neaton had three goals, but Sobrero held her to just two shots in the rematch. 
"The first time we played was only Kate's third or fourth game as a defender," Petrucelli said. "Now she's had a whole season of experience against the best players in the county, and she just shut her down." 
"As a team we didn't really change much defensively. We 
just played better.  Everyone  
was  a  lot  more  aware  of  
Natalie."  

Petrucelli and his team point­ed to the homefield crowd as a source of motivation, especially during early stages of the game. 
"There were points in the first half when we lagged a bit and the crowd helped motivate us," Petrucelli said. 
"There was a lot of emotion in the whole game," Daws said, 

The Observer/ Jake Peters Mindy Bassett of George Mason scores over Irish goalkeeper Jen Renola's head in the opening minutes of their match-up. 
"and the crowd was a big  part  But  after  their  win  over  
of that."  William & Mary, the Irish and  
The homefield will turn into a  Petrucelli weren't quite ready  
disadvantage next weekend  to discuss the final four.  
when the Irish will play tourna­ .  "Right now we,.re just going  
ment host Portland in the semi- to enjoy it for  a little while,"  
finals.  The Pilots advanced  Petrucelli said.  "This is some­ 
with a  2-1 overtime win over  thing that may never happen  
Stanford yesterday.  again."  

WARNING: Dialing Zero to Call Your Family Collect Can Be Hazardous to Their Wealth. 
' 

1-800-COLLECT 
Dial it instead of"0"and save them up to 44%. 
® 
page 17 

• FOOTBALL 
Innocence will be found, Miller claims 
Observer Staff Report 
Former Irish wide receiver Michael Miller held a news con­ference with his attorney, Wendell Odom, Friday after­noon at Odom's Houston law office to claim Miller's inno­cence in a stolen check-cashing scheme. 
"I wasn't treated fairly at all," Miller told the Houston Post, "I was victimized." 
Miller is charged with partici­pating in a scheme to steal and forge checks to buy $50,000 worth of airline tickets, clothes and alcohoL 
"Mike Miller has never pur­chased items with a false check," Odom said at the con­ference. "This case seems to be more of who he is .... It's star bashing." 
Odom explained that Miller did fly from Notre Dame to Houston last summer using a plane ticket he received from friends in Houston. Miller claims he had no idea that the ticket was bought with a stolen check. 
Irish football coach Lou Holtz wil.l only say that Miller "is no longer a student at the univer­sity." 
Even though Miller near his home in Missouri City, Texas, his thoughts still temain on Notre Dame. 
"I miss school," he said."I miss my teammates." 
Miller's arraignment is sched­uled for November 21 in a Fort Bend (Texas) district court on charges of organized criminal activity. He could see up to 10 years in prison if he is convict­ed. 
MSU still 
searcl1ing 
for coach 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

Minnesota Vikings defensive coordinator Tony Dungy has refused an offer to coach at Michigan State, according to a report published Sunday. 
Dungy was offered and turned down the job, The Detroit News reported, because he hopes to be an NFL head coach someday. Perles was fired Tuesday, effective at sea­son's end. 
Other names also have been kicked around as possible Spartan coaches, including Bowling Green coach Gary Blackney and Colorado quar­terback coach Rick Neuheisel. 
The News said Michigan State president M. Peter McPherson has consulted at least one former Michigan State coach and athletic direc­tor, seeking help in the search for a new coach. 
8-20/30

MINUTE PACKAGES 
or 

1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 
tOtk-ago Hair CuUing Co.~
'·--·' 

5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n-7946 

HOURS: 9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6-Sun. 11-5 

... 
• 
f 
Monday, November 14, 1994 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
I 
~ 
I f 
t 
. 
scores Win­ning goal in 
overtime 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sports Writer 
Ever since World War II, US citizen have been frightened of the mighty Russians. 
After the fall of the Soviet Empire, and the defeat of Drago by Rocky, many thought the threat was over. 
Yet, to the ecstasy of the Notre Dame men's soccer team, the threat has become a reality. 
Russia has invaded and con­quered the Midwestern Collegiate and Mid-Continent Conferences for the Irish. 
The mighty Russian, sopho­more midfielder, Konstantin Koloskov vanquished Central Connecticut last Saturday as he drove in the winning goal in sudden death double overtime, and the Irish were victorious 1­0. 
With the midwest and the east captured, the rest of the nation is next as the Irish battle in the NCAA tournament next weekend. This will be the first time in Irish history that the men's soccer team has jour­neyed to the NCAA tournament two years in a row. 
Koloskov, who is to play with the Russian Olympic team this winter, invoked images of Jurgen Klinsmann in the World Cup as he side volleyed the ball past Blue Devil goalkeeper Anthony Sardo in the early minutes of sudden death. 

"It feels good to win," Koloskov said. "It's great for the team and the seniors. The entire team was focused and played well." 
He was a major force in the Irish victories for the MCC championship. While battling the flu and a quadriceps injury, he scored four goals in the tournament. He also drove in the penalty conversion that gave the Irish a sudden death overtime victory over Wisconsin-Milwaukee and the championship. 
The whole squad also de­serves credit for these great victories. After battling through a tough conference season, the Irish defense held the fort as the Irish offense got on track. The team also showed tremendous poise as they went into their second consecutive sudden death over­time. 
"The kids deserve credit for 

keeping composure," coach 
Mike Berticelli said. "They de­
serve it (the win) after such a 
long season." 
Another figure prominent in 

the victory was Irish goal­
keeper Bert Bader. He was 
ready and made the big save in 
the second half, and allowed 
the Irish the chance to pull it 
out in overtime. 
In recognition of his play dur­

ing the tournament, he has 
been selected to the Soccer 
America's Team of the Week. 
The Irish will not know until 

later tonight who or where they 
will play in the NCAA tourna­
ment. 

Dress for success in Mishawaka! 
a sales oriented Associate to join our catalog store in Mishawaka. Your store is among the first of what could be a200 store division. So there's plenty of room for your continued success in this revolution in retailing. 
You must love classic clothes, possess the ability to establish special relationships with your clients and have the ingenuity and enthusiasm to thrive in an entre­preneurial environment. 
Extensive retail experience is NOT a requirement. We will provide extensive 
training that will enable you to succeed in this uniquely professional retail operation. Full and part­time opportunities are available. 
If all this sounds exciting to you, call the Manager at: (219) 277-6030; or mail your resume to: Jos. A. Bank Clothiers, Centennial Place, 320 West Cleveland Road, Granger, IN 46545. EOE. 

kinko•s$ 
the copy center 
2202-C South Bend Ave. Greenwood Plaza 271·0398 
109 E. J~fferson Jefferson Centre 234·8709 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Sophomore Konstantin Koloskov(9) scored the winning goal for the men's soccer team on Saturday night as the Irish advanced to the NCAA tournament. 
COURSES ADDED 
ANTH 496-02  #4446  
ANTH 496-03  #4447  
ARST  485S-Ol  #4442  
COAJ  212-01  #4435  
COAJ  312-01  #4436  
COCG515-0l  #4434  
COSA 402-01  #4451  
ECON 380-01  #4439  
ECON 445-01  #4440  
ENOL 699-39  #4438  
GSC  346-01  #4448  
MUS  401-01  #4445  
MUS  499-01  #4441  
PHIL 295-01  #4437  
soc  2I4-0l  #4450  
STY  456-01  #4444  
THEO 582-02  #4449  
CHANGES  

AME 651-01 #)183 AME 657-01 #3184 ARST 210S-03 #3485 BIOS 342L-01 #1877 
BIOS 407L-02 #2325 CHEM 243-01 #2415 coco 325-01 #)526 COTH 22I-OI #2341 COTH 421-01 #)552 ECON 125-01 #23I9 ECON 663-0I #4225 FIN 231 all sect GOVT 640-0I #)728 liPS 506-01 #1206 liPS 640-01 '#400I MATH 120-01 #1327 MATH 362-01 #24II MBA 562-0I #0408 sc 362-0I #2880 soc 640-0J #)967 THEO 587-01 #4207 COURSES CANCELLED 
ARST 4765-01 #3489 COAJ 222-01 #4337 COAJ 332-01 #)SIS COSA 40I-OI #3546 EE 464-01 #2898 ENOL 412C-Ol #3614 ENOL 461Z-OI #3625 GOVT 492B-OI #3707 GSC 412C-Ol #3744 soc 276-01 #3948 

Two teams that deliver. 
kinko't 
the copy center:r---;...::.-.J 

Dir. Readings: SocioCultural Anthroplogy; var. cr. hrs.; Patrick Gaffney; Permission Required Dir. Readings: SocioCultural Anthropology; var. cr. hrs.; Marrin Murphy; Permission Required Studio Photography; TH OI:I5-04:00; 3 cr. hrs; Richard Gray; prerequist is ARST 285S, 366S or 
375S Second Year Japanese II; MTWHF II: 15-12:05; 5 cr. hrs.; Yuko Nakahama Third Year Japanese II; MWF 01:I5-02:05; 3 cr. hrs.; Yuko Nakahama; pre-requisite is COAJ 331 Greek Historians; TH 04: I5-05:30; 3 cr. hrs.; David Ladouceur; cross-listed with COCO 455-01 Grammatical Analysis of Genre; W 03:35-05:00; 3 cr. hrs; Joseph A mar Development Economics; TH II:00-12:I5; 3 cr. hrs.; Peter Skott Economics of Industrial Organization; TH 02:45-04:00; 3 cr. hrs.; Anaindya Sen Research and Dissertation; variable credit hours; James Robinson Practicum; 3 credit hours; Marie Kramb; Permission Required String Performance Techniques; F OI:00-02:30;1 cr. hr.; K. Buranskas, C. Plummer, C. Rutledge; 
cross-listed with MUS 50I-OI Undergraduate Thesis; variable credit hours; Ethan Haimo Seminar Justice-Honors; TH 02:45-04:00; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required; Honors students only Minorities in America; TH 04:I5-05:30; 3 cr. hrs.; Min Liu Tradition & Moderization in China & Japan; MWF II: 15-12:05; 3 cr. hrs.; Peter Moody; 
Permission Required; cross-listed with GOVT 492N-01 Service: Secular and Christian; W 02:20-03:35; 2 cr. hrs.; Regina Coli; M.Div students only 
Change day/time to: TH II :OO-I2: 15 and change prerequisite to: AME 599 
Change day/time to: TH 02:45-04:00 
Add restriction: Majors only through Jrd period; then open to all 
Change to: "Permission Required" and remove restriction of Majors only through 3rd period; 
College of Science only through I2/9. 
Change day to: H 01:15-04:15 
Change time to: MWF ll:IS-12:05 
Change time to: MWF II:15-I2:05 
Remove restrictions and changed to "Permission Required" 
Remove restrictions and changes to "Permission Required" 
Change time to: TH OI:\5-02:30 
Change time to: MW 03:50-05:05 
Change restriction to: "BA students only through Jrd period; then open to all" 
Change time to: W 04: I5-06:45 
Change day to: F 07:00-10:00 p.m. 
Change time to: W 04:15-06:45 
Add prerequisite: MATH 106, Il9 or 125 
Change time to: MWF 03:25-04: IS 
Change restriction to: "First year MBA students only" 
Add restriction: GEOS I41 or SC 141 
Change time to: W 04:I5-06:45 
Remove Permission Required-open to all M.Div students 

THIS FRIDAY! 
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
vs. BOWLING GREEN 
FRIDAY NIGHT • 7 P.M. Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
FREE ADMISSION! 
with student ID 
Monday, November 14, 1994 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 

An unnatural silence hung in the kitchen, and Spunky sensed that his arrival was unexpected. 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
EVERYBODY LIKES THIS
l'f'\ A55IGNING YOU TO 
NOW GO YOU REALLY e PROTIC.T TOO MUC.H TO 
OUT THERE.

"THE PROJECT THAT 
SHOULDN'T ~ CANCEL IT, BUT NOT
WOULDN'T DIE'' 
AND MAIN-t'\I.X. H.ONE5TY 
~ 
~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Metal-in-the-53 Popular topping rough 55 Corridors 
1 Adam and Eve 31 Comfortably 56 Shirt brand locale 
inviting I Pecan or poplar 34 Thick strings name 
57 "Do-others1 Track official 35 Fix a squeak as ..." 
14 Fully cooked 38 Prayer ending 58 Kate's TV mate 
11 Do damage to 37 Mock-innocent 59 Suffix with 11 Become used query 
switch (to) 38 Some med. 
eo No de Cologne? 
11 Chew like a insurance cos. 
81 Heston role beaver 31-good turn 12Called up18 Radiate (help) 83 Matches a bet 11 Out of practice 40 Suspicious 
20 Popular topping 41 "All That Jazz" 
22 Fire-gone director Bob DOWN conclusion 42 Write hastily 
1 The F.B.I.'s 
23 Film extras? 43 "Gilligan's 
J.-Hoover
24 German-Polish Island" homes 2 "No man is anborder river 44 Hasty escape island" writer 25 Industrial tub 45 Pager's sound 3 Pass, as laws26 Buttermilk's 47 Put away (for) 4 Yale's home rider 51 Ahab's sighting 
5 Phillies park, familiarly 




6 Film director 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Harold 7 Cleveland's lake 8 911 responders: 
Celebrate a friend's 
Abbr. 9 Irrational speeches 10 Occupied, as a 30 Choice word "Dallas"
bathroom 52 Angel's
31 Muslim pilgrim 47 Dish's beloved, 
headgear

11 Popular topping 
32 Melville romance in rhyme 

birthday with a 
53 Berth place 
33 Popular topping 48 Gift recipient 

13 Alejandro and 
34 Schmooze 49 Loosen the 54 Nehemiah
Fernando 
37 Defeat, aIa Ali laces preceder

21 Say yes to 24Ye-Book 
38 Base clearers Shoppe 40Goudaand 
Get answers to any three clues 

special Observer ad 
Edam, e.g. 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

group, with 41 Top choice, so 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

"the" to speak 
There will be a meeting on Wednesday, Nov. 16 at 7:00 p.m. in the Student Government Office for all students interested in working on the spring report to the Board ofTrustees. The report will address financial aid, so 
• 
please come and voice your input and concerns. 
Off-Campus Students: 
Pick up your copy of The Guide in the Student Government office this week. 

Seminoles outlast Irish in heartbreaker 
SEE SPORTS EXTRA 
SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, November 14, 1994 
·-• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
On the Oregon Trail 
Weekend wins send Irish to first-ever Final Four 
ByRIAN AKEY Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team rallied from early one-goal deficits against both 

.._ George Mason and William & Mary to win its opening two games in the NCAA tournament and advance to next weekend's final four in Portland, Oregon. In the opening round the Irish, who had not trailed an opponent at Alumni Field all season, found themselves in an unfamiliar position when George Mason's Mindy Bassett s-cored a fluke goal less than two minutes into the game. Bassett misfired a cross on a restart from near the right sideline, sending the ball into the net over the head of Irish goalkeeper Jen Renola. "At first when they got that goal, I thought, 'Oh, no, this is going to be just like last year,"' Renola said. "But it ended up helping us, I think. It just made us play harder." The Irish regrouped quickly, however, and tied the score 1-1 less than ten minutes later when freshman Holly Manthei redirected a cross from all­American Cindy Daws past Patriot goalkeeper Jen Mead. The score remained tied into the second half when the Irish scored two goals in a three minutes span to break the game open. Senior co-captain Tiffany Thompson scored first, on a header after a Manthei corner kick. The second goal of the half came when Manthei drew Mead off her line and dished off to senior Jodi Hartwig who booted the ball into the open net. 
The Irish had as many as four other legitimate scoring oppor­tunities later in the half which were snubbed by all-American Mead. 
On Sunday, the early Irish deficit lasted through halftime, as William & Mary rode the momentum of an Ann Cook goal at 20:45 to a 1-0 halftime lead. 
"I asked the team at halftime if they wanted the season to end today," Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli said, "and I guess they decided they didn't." 
The Irish tied the score 1-1 ten minutes into the second half when Rosella Guerrero head a Manthei cross into the net. Manthei's assist brought her nation-leading season total to 29. 
The game-winning goal came just minutes later on a free kick which came after Manthei was taken down just outside the box. Daws set up to take the kick, but left the ball for Michelle McCarthy after luring the attention of the Tribe line away with a stepover. McCarthy hammered her shot just inside the right post. 
"We've had Michelle take the free kicks before," Petrucelli said, "but the stepover is some­thing I've never seen. That was a great choice by them on the field." 
Another on-field performance which enabled the Irish victory was the defensive effort of freshman Kate Sobrero. 

The Observer/ Jake Peters 
Cindy Dawes (2) and Michelle McCarthy ·embrace as Tiffany Thompson (9) runs to join them after they beat 
George Mason and William and Mary to capture a place in the Final Four. 
see IRISH I page 17 

.. IRISH SECURE BID 
of note... 
Konstantin Koloskov (right) scored the NCM women's soccer Final Four winning goal in overtime to send the men's Notre Dame vs. Portland
soccer team to the National Tournament 
North Carolina vs. Connecticut
r See page 18 


