

Wednesday, April27, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 132 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Irish Studies program is early success 
By KATE CRISHAM Assistant News Editor 
In the eyes of many, the University of Notre Dame is considered one of the most identifiably Irish-Catholic insti­tutions in the nation. 
Indeed, four of the eight reli­gious present at the founding of the University were Irish emi­grants, and fourteen of the six­teen University presidents have been of Irish birth or descent. It is sometimes said that the spirit of the Fighting Irish affects all who come into contact with the University. 
• see DEANE, page 4 
Until last year, however, Notre Dame had never had an Irish studies program. But a generous $2.5 million gift from chairman emeritus of the Board of Trustees, Donald Keough, and his wife, Marilyn, has made it possible to estab­lish a center for Irish studies and create an endowed Irish studies professorship. 
The announcement that Seamus Deane, widely con­sidered the world's foremost authority on Irish culture and literature, would be the first holder of the professorship was the first indication that Notre Dame's Irish studies program would be a success. The announcement that Ireland Prime Minister Albert Reynolds would be giving the commence­ment address at Notre Dame was further indication that 1994 would be Notre Dame's "Year of Ireland". 
A year later, with the addi­
tion of Deane to the faculty and 
increased library holdings on 
Irish culture and history, the 
University appears to be mak­
ing tremendous strides towards 
becoming the premiere Irish 
studies program in the nation. 
The Irish studies program is 
housed in the English 
Department. According to 


department head Professor Christopher Fox, the first year of the program has been a suc­cess. 
"The chief accomplishment was getting Seamus Deane, the top intellectual in Ireland, to come to Notre Dame," said Fox. "He taught two courses and de­livered twelve lectures here, at Saint Mary's, and in Chicago on behalf of the Irish studies pro­gram." 
Fox stated that Deane's pres­ence has attracted other top Irish scholars to visit and lec­ture at Notre Dame. 
"In April, we had an Irish history lecture series featuring such scholars as Seamus He any, Derek Mahon, and Mairin Dhonnacdha," said Fox. "He any is considered one of the top poets of the English lan­guage, and Dhonnacdha has written books on women in medieval Ireland." 
According to Fox, the pres­ence of Deane is also helping Notre Dame gain worldwide recognition as a center for Irish studies. 
"We have people from all over the world who want to come here to study," said Fox. "Graduate students want to do their dissertations on Irish cul­ture and history at Notre Dame." 

However, Fox noted that before Notre Dame can become a genuine center for Irish stud­ies, it must expand its library collections on Ireland. 
"The home of the Fighting Irish only has a row and a ha of Irish works," said Fox. "We need major development on increasing our library collec­tions." 
"We can't develop the pro­gram without developing the library collection," he said. "When Heany and the others came to lecture last week, we also had them evaluate the 
see IRISH/ page 4 

ND, SMC announce valedictorians 
Special to The Observer 
Jonathan Fay, an aerospace and mechanical engineering major from 
Arcadia, Ohio, has been named valedictorian of Notre Dame's 1994 graduating class and will deliver the valedictory address at the May 15 com­mencement. 
Catherine Michel Adams, an art major with a concentration in art history and a minor in 
• see AWARDS, page 5 
Women's Studies, is the vale­dictorian for Saint Mary's 1994 graduating class. 
The highest-ranking senior in the College of Engineering, Fay complied a cumulative 
3.983 grade point average. He is the recipient of a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship and has been hon­ored by the Sigma Gamma Tau and Tau Beta Pi engineering societies. He was a NASA un­dergraduate research fellow last summer and was selected as the year's winner of Notre Dame's Zahm Prize for Aero­nautical Engineering. 
A Keenan Hall resident, Fay was co-captain of the tuba sec­tion of the Notre Dame march­ing band. He plans to continue graduate studies in aerospace engineering at Stanford Uni­versity. 
Last summer, Adams was the recipient of a SISTAR (Student Independent Study and Assisted Research) grant with Assistant Professor of English Laura Haigwood on "Eliza Allen Starr: The Romantic Roots of a Woman-Centered Art Pedagogy." 
Adams, who is from Louisville, Ken., plans to move to France after graduation and study at the University of 
see HONORS/ pagel2 



After 342 years, blacks vote in South Africa 
By JOHN DANISZEWSKI 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 

Black South Africans made history Tuesday, voting by the tens of thousands to take con­trol of their country for the first time since whites arrived 342 years ago. 
Refusing to be cowed by a wave of deadly bombings, the elderly and infirm came in droves from squatter settle­ments and thatched villages to mark a simple cross on a piece of paper. 
Some literally crawled and others were pushed to the polls in wheelbarrows. Many broke down in tears after making their mark. 
"We need freedom," said 72­year-old Florence Ndimangele, voting with other elderly people near Cape Town. "We are tired of being slaves." 
Despite late-arriving ballots and lines so long in some places that people collapsed, the mood among blacks casting the first vote a­
Tuesday's voting was re­tiona! Congress leader Nelson served for the aged, invalids, Mandela and President F.W. de people in hospitals and the mili­Klerk will cast their ballots. tary. "Today marks the dawn of 
General voting begins our freedom," Mandela said. 
a year-old retired nurse voting near Durban, it was a day of immeasurable significance. 
"There have been so many white elections," she said. "I used to pass the posters on the road and dream about whether I would be able to vote. That's why I came so early, to see if this is really happening." 
Her seven daughters, she · said, will see "a real new South Africa." 
After two days of bombings by suspected right-wingers that killed 21 people and injured more than 150, no violence was reported Tuesday. Election of­ficials said they were generally pleased with the voting, despite some glitches. 
The heavy turnout was a striking repudiation of the bomb-throwers, as blacks went out of their way to show they would not be denied their mo­ment of glory. 
Have aGreat Summer! 
hut is the last issue of The e'rjrer~or the 1993-94 aca· l~·y~~r~ >The commence~ t is · · ·n be published o 
e.()bserver wishes 'a happy sununer.. 

I 
I 
J 
~ 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 27, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
reyou ready for your turn? 
Juniors beware-senior year is right around the corner. Remember all the fear and anxiety you saw your senior friends endure as they planned the rest of their life? This will be us next year. We will be the ones people talk about, saying, "Gee, after 34 interviews you thought he would have gotten something." 
Maybe you have a 4.0 in Chemical Engineering and already have companies lined up at your door. Maybe you are one of those people who have had the privilege of hearing people say, "Oh, you're set! You've already got a sweet internship that just has to lead to a job next year." Maybe you have found the perfect school to continue your education or have plans to do service in some far-ofT country. 
No matter what our situation, that feeling will still be present. That feeling that time is slipping. That we should do a little more with our senior year than get "hammered at the 'Backer." But not much more, though. 
The pressure is on to prove something, to be somebody. But in a place where you came in thinking you were a big fish and discovered you were only a minnow, I think we can all rest easy knowing that Notre Dame has at least enabled us to prepare for bigger chal­lenges that will most assuredly present them­selves later on. 
Though we may have our desires or reser­vations about having to leave, there is a rea­son why we came to Notre Dame. We came here to ease this ensuing fear. Hopefully most seniors can attest to an increased confidence in themselves regardless of their future plans. 
College isn't like high school. When you and your friends split up to attend various schools, you knew you would be back for Christmas and Thanksgiving. 
Next year will be different because of the finality of it all-when you say goodbye you have to mean it. I'm sure the seniors know what I am talking about. 
Now is the time to realize that the rush of fear and anxiety that will come with next year is indeed surmountable. The key: surround yourself with your friends, enjoy every minute of this summer and look forward to all of next year. Don't worry about what you can't con­trol, just master the things that you can. 
Next year is the end of an important seg­ment of our lives. Go out with a bang. Get involved. Raise a little hell. Have fun. Be yourself. Pick a cliche, any cliche, and live it. 
This column is not an attempt to put the entire junior class on Prozac. The point is to address the reality that lies just around the corner for us all. And don't you underclass­men laugh just yet, because this will be you in a few years too. 
We need to leave our mark that we were here. That we made this place better. We have to make ourselves more than just faces in the yearbook. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Dave Tyler Kyle Green Edward lmbus Susan Marx Sports Ti~ Seymour Etc. 
Theresa Aleman Viewpoint Chris W eirup Brian Seiler 
Lab Tech Graphics 
T.J. Harris Chris Weirup 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Final fundamental particle of physical matter discovered 
BATAVIA, Ill. 
A team of 440 scientists has successfully concluded an intensive, 17 -year search for one of the most elusive and mysterious objects in the universe -the top quark. 
On Tuesday, researchers at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory announced they had found the first evidence of its existence. 
If confirmed, it would support our basic understanding of the nature of time, matter and the universe. 
The finding also would mark the end of a worldwide search for the six quarks that make up protons and neu­trons inside atoms. 
Without the top quark, the Standard Model -a widely held theory of what makes up matter -would collapse, forcing scientists to rethink three decades of research. 
Five quarks had already been discovered -the last in 1977 at Fermilab. Since they're believed to come in pairs, scientists believed a sixth, or top quark, must exist. 
Researchers at Fermilab discovered the last quark has been hard to find because of its tremendous mass -35 times heavier than the fifth quark. 
In the four-mile circular collider, they used an electron­ic field to accelerate larger particles at nearly the speed of light, then made them collide. 
Though the discovery is reassuring to physicists, it rais­es another, more mysterious question, Riordan said. 
"Why is this thing so tremendously heavy? It's like you're building a home of bricks and every sixth one is made out oflead," he said. 
"It must have some intimate relationship with whatever the origin of mass is, but we have no idea why the top quark is so massive," spokesman Dr. James Weinstein said. 
The six quarks are named "up" and "down," "charm" and "strange" and "top" and "bottom." A physicist took the word "quark" from a line in James Joyce's "Finnegans Wake": "Three quarks for Muster Mark." 
The missing link 
Aesearl:hers have found evidence ol the lap quark, an elusive subaiDmic particle lhat exislad for abilionlh ol asecond at the begiMi1g o1 time. Sdentisls BOl9ll the lOp quark for 17 yeam, believing Hwas the ll1iW1g li1k fi lie Slandatd Model, a ~ol12 pal1lctas thought to form al malllr. 
IIUON 
0.1057 

Woman sentenced for shooting doctor 
WICHITA, 
A woman who admitted shooting an abortion doctor outside his clinic last summer drew a sentence of nearly 11 years today from a judge who refused a prosecution request to double the time she spends in prison. Rachelle "Shelley" Shannon, 38, of Grants Pass, Ore., was con­victed March 25 of attempted murder in the attack on Dr. George Tiller,. whose clinic has long been a target of anti­abortion activities. She also was convicted of aggravated assault for pointing a gun at a nurse's assistant who chased her and was found in contempt for refusing to tell where she got the gun. The sentence could be reduced to eight years and nine months for good behavior. 
Roseanne: Tom's no wife-beater 

LOS ANGELES 
Court documents to the contrary, Roseanne Arnold says husband Tom is no wife-beater. But her lawyer says there's no way he would have filed something he suspected was untrue. "I am not a battered wife in any way, although reports continue to circulate that I have not withdrawn the charges of being abused," she said in a state­


ment Monday. "I signed an uncorrected, unread letter from my divorce lawyer in anger and haste. I made a mistake.... Although I know it's a titillating story to many out there, it is untrue and insults women who are really battered. The statement gave no indication of how such allegations came to be put on the piece of paper that she signed. Mrs. Arnold withdrew the divorce petition late last week, implying that the couple sometimes attacked each other. Arnold has denied abusing his wife. 

Judge upholds DNA-based conviction 
RICHMOND 
A federal judge refused to stay the execution of a man whose lawyers argued Tuesday that DNA analysis of se­men stains linking him to four rape-murders was flawed. Timothy Spencer, 32, is scheduled to die in the electric chair Wednesday night for raping and killing four women in 1987. He would become the first person in the United States to be put to death after being convicted on the basis of genetic evidence. 
Election fraud charged in Penn. 
PHILADELPHIA 
Boss politics lingers in Philadelphia, where elections are decided on voting machines in people's homes anq where even the dead cast ballots. Cynicism about the system was reinforced last fall by a special state Senate election, the results of which were overturned Tuesday by a federal judge who found widespread fraud and gave the victory to Republican loser Bruce Marks, who had won on the voting machines, but Democrat William Stinson finished 461 votes ahead with nearly 80 percent of the absentee ballots. Stinson is accused of miscounting ballots with the help of his mother and son, and his cam­paign is accused oftaking advanta,ge pf yuters who spoke little English. Stinson was charged with voter fraud in March along with two campaign workers. Authorities say that Stinson -himself a ward leader -opened voting machines, using keys he got from his mother, an election judge, and that he also counted absentee ballots with his son. "There's one for me," he allegedly said each time a ballot carried his name -and sometimes when it didn't. Stinson acknowledged opening the ballots but denied reading the votes. 



----------~----------------~-------------­
Wednesday, April27, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Schmitz to return to teaching ranks 
Special to The Observer 
Roger Schmitz, vice president and associate provost at the University of Notre Dame since 1987, will step out of that role effective June 30, 1995, and re­turn to teaching full-time and research as Keating-Crawford 
Professor of Chemical Engineering, according to the Uni­versity's provost, Timothy
O'Meara. 

" Ro g e r ' s Roger Schmitz leadership . qualities, born of his success in academic administration at the departmental, college, and University levels, and his keen insights into what it takes to achieve and maintain excel­lence in academic departments and programs will be sorely missed," O'Meara said in mak­ing the announcement. "But this is truly a case where the administration's loss is the College of Engineering's gain, as Roger returns to teaching and research." 


"I said when I first entered academic administration as a department chair that I didn't intend for it to be my life's work," Schmitz said., "That was 15 years ago, so this decision is overdue." 
When Schmitz assumed his current position seven years ago, he succeeded Father Ed­ward Malloy, following Malloy's selection as president of the University. 
Among his many duties in the provost's office, Schmitz was the officer directly charged with the development of cam­puswide computing and infor­mation technologies, an area in which the University has made major strides during his tenure, including the recent announce­ment that all student residences 

Happy 21st Birthday 
Erin 

Montgomery! 
Feel free to hunt down those bars! 
P.S. Congrats, Grad! 
will be wired for access to the campus computing network. 
Prior to his appointment in the provost's office, Schmitz had served as McCloskey dean of the University's College of Engineering beginning in 1981. 
He joined the Notre Dame faculty as Keating-Crawford professor and chair of chemical engineering n 1979. 
Elected to membership in the prestigious National Academy of Engineering in 1984, Schmitz is internationally known for his research on instabilities in chemically reacting systems. 
He and co-workers in 1977 reported the first experimental evidence of chaos in chemical reactions, and his studies were among the earliest in the field of deterministic chaos, now a focus of research in a number of disciplines. 
On leaving the officers' ranks, Schmitz plans to extend his earlier research interests into the field of ecological systems. He also intends to pursue uses of new teaching technologies, including the development of electronic course materials. 
Before entering academic administration, Schmitz had received a succession of na­tional teaching and research awards, including the R.H. Wil­helm Award from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers in 1981 for his contributions to the study of chemical reaction engineering. 
He also was a Guggenheim fellow in 1968-69. 
A native of Carlyle, Ill., Schmitz was graduated from the University of Illinois with a bachelor's of science degree in 1959 and earned his doctorate from the University of Min­nesota in 1962. 
He was a member of the engineering faculty at Illinois from 1962 until assuming the Notre Dame chair in 1979. 


Fernanda: 
Happy 20th B-Day! 
Te quiere un mundo, Hildita 


UAW strikes Caterpillar 
Associated Press 
DECATUR, Ill. 
About 3,300 Caterpillar Inc. workers walked off the job to­day to protest the company's suspension of a union stew­ard's privileges. 
The strike began about 3:45 
a.m. when about 400 employ­ees refused to report to work at Decatur, said Larry Solomon, president of United Auto Work­ers union Local 751. 
About 1,000 day-shift work­ers honored the picket lines hours later,. a union spokesman said. Solomon said. the local's entire membership of 1,700 was expected to join the strike by day's end. 
And by 9 a.m., the strike had spread to about 1,900 workers at Caterpillar's plant in Aurora, a far western Chicago suburb. Machine operator Pat Thorpen, a Local 145 member, estimated that 800 pickets were outside the plant. 
The Decatur plant, which makes earth-moving equip­ment, will stay open today with about 1,000 nonunion workers but will operate at decreased capacity, said Caterpillar spokesman Chuck Hippler. There was no immediate word whether the Aurora plant would stay open. 
There was no indication the strike was spreading to other plants. The company has plants in several other downstate Illi­nois cities, including Peoria. 




I --------------­
Late Night Special1 Large 1 Topping 2 Stix 
after 8 p.m. I 
1 Pizza
I 

&

Large 1 Topping 
I I, Stix & 2 Cokes 
I

Pizza I 2 Cokes $595 + TAXl $1000+TAX $500+TAX 

Papa John's Pizza Is Brainfood! 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 27, 1994 
Literary Modernism for sixty students, and he'll also be

Irish Building begins with Deane
teaching a graduate level class 
continued from page 1 
library." 

"Seamus wants to develop the library in order to make this a genuine center for learn­ing," he said. 
Although several other American universities have Irish studies programs, both Fox and Deane believe that Notre Dame's program will be unique. 
"Boston College, Texas, Berkeley, and Harvard have Irish studies and Celtic studies programs," said Fox. 
on Burke and the Idea of Revolution," said Fox. "So all and all, we'll be offering four courses in Irish studies next semester." 
Fox expressed hope that the program would eventually expand into a concentration. 
"The idea is to eventually make it a concentration," said Fox. "To do this, though, we need major support from the administration. It's going to take a lot to develop the library holdings." 
However, Fox was optimistic 
By KATE CRISHAM 
Assistant News Editor 

Last May's announcement that internationally renowned scholar Seamus Deane would be the first holder of the $1.25 million endowed Keough professorship was the first indi­cation that Notre Dame's newly established Irish studies pro­gram would be a success. 
Deane, a member of the Royal Irish Academy and for­mer professor of literature at University College in Dublin, is widely considered the world's foremost scholar of Irish cul­ture and literature. He was Deane has also attained the ground up will be a tremendous title of a "moving spirit" for a task. However, Deane has very generation of Irish scholars. particular ideas on how to 
According to English depart­make the Notre-Dame Irish ment head Christopher Fox, studies program unique from attracting an intellectual of others in the country. Deane's stature was an incredi­Deane's first order of busi­ble bo.on to Notre Dame's fledg­ness is to augment Notre ling Irish studies program. Dame's paltry library selections "We're absolutely delighted to relating to Irish literature and have him here," said Fox. "It's thought. "Before we can do been called the best hiring in serious work, we need library America." holdings in depth," he said. . 
Both Deane and Fox are The Chronicle of Higher Edu­aware that developing an Irish cation contributed to this arti­studies program from the cle. 

Attention Students! 
"Seamus wants to differenti­ate our program by emphasiz­ing Ireland and the Irish lan­guage." 
Indeed, the department showed their commitment towards this goal by offering a beginning Gaelic class this semester. 
According to Fox, the response to the class was over­whelming. 
"At first, we wondered if we·' d even be able to fill the class," said Fox. "But the 25­person course filled in the first day. Now we're offering two courses in the Gaelic language next fall." 
Fox stated that interviews for the permanent position are currently being held in Dublin. 
In addition to the Gaelic lan­guage courses, the department will offer two courses taught by Deane. 
"He'll be teaching a four­hundred level course on Irish of Notre Dame's chances of also the general editor of the 
eventually becoming the pre­"Field Day Anthology of Irish 

miere Irish studies program in Writing," widely acclaimed as 

the country. 

the .most important Irish publi­cation in the last half-century. 
"If we get the financial SUij.­

According to Irish literary
port needed to build up tlie and cultural scholar David 

library and to teach various Lloyd, "Deane is clearly the 

aspects of Irish culture, this principal Irish intellectual at 

could become a genuine center the moment. There's no doubt 

for Irish studies," said Fox. 

about that." Lloyd added that 
21 and sti II driving everyone up the wall! 
Happy Birthday 
, 

Beth, Dawn, John, Ken and Beth 

We will wrap, pack, and ship your items! 
Michiana Pack· and Ship 715 West McKinley Mishawaka (East of Video Watch) 254-9260 
Authorized UPS Shipping Agency 
GOING TO ANEW CITY? 
CAREER &PLACEMENT SERVICES 
CAN HELP YOU FIND OTHER NO GRADS GOING TO THE SAME CITY. 
STOP BY AND SIGN liP NOW! 



from the University of 


ACATHOLIC UNIVERSITY 
$14.95 paperback 



Bookstore on cam us 

-~---~~-----------­
·-------------------~---.--------------~ 
Wednesday, April27, 1994 The Observer· STUDENT AWARDS page 5 
ND students garner awards, research grants 
Special to The Observer 
• Five Notre Dame students have received grants of $2,000 for the younger scholars pro­gram of the National Endow­ment for the Humanities. 
The awards, given to some 160 underclassmen nation wide, will be used to fund nine­week summer research pro­jects. 
• 
Erin Shaw, a government ma­jor from Rochester Hall, Minn., and Howard Hall, will work on a project entitled "From Publius to the Present: The Role of Pre­rogative in American Govern­ment." Her advisor is John Roos, associate professor of government and international studies. 

• 
Margaret Scharle, a philoso­phy major from Peoria, Ill., and Breen-Philips Hall, will be ad­vised by David O'Connor, asso­ciate professor of philosophy, on a project entitled "The Telol­ogy in Aristotle's Physics as Ex­pressed in His Ethics." 

• 
Christopher Fischer, a history major from Cincinnati and Ca­vanaugh Hall, will study "Na­tionalism and Ethnic Conflict: 


Austria, Italy and the South Ty-· rol Solution" under the direc­tion of Laura Crago, assistant professor of history. 
• 
Rebecca Kroeger, an English major from Milwaukee and Pasquerilla Hall West, will work on a project entitled "Puritan by Birth, Catholic at Heart: 

• 
Michelle Watkins, a science and philosophy major from Kensington, Md., and Siegfried Hall, plans a project entitled "The Relevance of Aristotle's Conception of Friendship to the Contemporary Debat over Ego­ism and Altruism." She will be advised by O'Connor. 


Religious  Discourses  in  
Nathaniel  Hawthorne's  
Fiction."  

Notre Dame undergraduates have won 17 younger scholars awards from the NEH since 1988. 
• Notre Dame students Brian Luense and Theresa McCaffery have been awarded scholar­ships by the Barry M. Goldwa­ter Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation. Now in its sixth year, the scholarship program honoring the former Republican presidential candi­date and U.S. senator is intend­ed to encourage students to pursue careers in mathematics, the natural sciences or engi­neering. 
Luense and McCaffery were among 276 students selected for academic achievement from a field of 1,800 students nomi­nated by the faculties of 900 colleges and universities na­tionwide. All the nominees in­tend eventually to earn doctor­ates in their fields. 
A junior from Vallejo, Calif., Luense has compiled a 3.965 grade point average while ma­joring in mathematics with an honor's concentration in com­puters. 
He also is pursuing a second major in philosophy. Outside the classroom, Luense volun­teer at South Bend's Center for the Homeless as a kitchen aide and participates in lay min­istries at Notre Dame's Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
A sophomore physics major, McCaffery has been named to the dean's list the past four semesters while maintaining a 
3.9 grade point average. She also is involved in Communities ND, a campus network of stu­dents dedicated to seeking Christian community through regular liturgical readings and reflections. 

The scholarships cover tu­ition, fees, books and room up to a maximum of $7,000 per year. 
• Notre Dame students Vanessa Davies, Maura Kenny and Gary Girzadas will receive grants of as much as $750 in the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program spon­sored by the College of Arts and Letters' Institute for Scholar­ship in the Liberal Arts. Twelve students and nine research pro­jects have been funded under the program since its inception in the fall of 1993. 
Established with a grant from Notre Dame alumnus John Madden, the program offers awards to individual under­graduates or groups of as many as six students under the direc­tion of a single faculty member. Each student may receive as much as $750, including an ex­pense allowance and, for pro­jects that are not for academic credit, a stipend of as much as $500. 
•Davies, 
a junior from Wood­stock, Ga., will study "Archaeological Research at Tell Jawa" under the supervi­sion of Eugene Ulrich, professor of theology. This field research just south of Amman, Jordan, will seek artifacts from a Byzantine church and religious objects of the early Umayyad caliphate, including remnants of both Byzantine Christendom and early Islam. 

• 
Kenny, a junior from West Hartford, Conn., will work on the project "Illustrating the 


'Wild Girl of Champagne:' Sav­age and Feral Humans in Early Modern Book Illustrations" un­der the supervision of Julia Douthwaite, assistant professor of romance languages and lit­eratures. European intellectu­als of the 18th century were fascinated by the discovery of a wild, feral girl in the fields of Champagne, France. 
Finally "tamed" and professed as a nun, this girl remained ambiguously on the margins of civilization. Kenny plans to _ examine 18th-century book illustrations of savage and feral humans in general to show how depictions of wild or savage humans are linked to the peri­od's prevailing theories in his­tory, literature and science. 
• Gary Girzadas, a sophomore from Palo Heights, Ill., will study the "Media Portrayal of David Koresh and the Branch Davidians" under the supervi­sion of Mark Chaves, assistant professor of sociology. This pro­ject will study the images used by the news media to portray Koresh and the Branch Davidians, most of whom per­ished a year ago in the fire that ended their prolonged con­frontation with federal agents. 
Girzadas will examine three newspapers-the New York Times, New York Daily News and Chicago Tribune-to exam­ine how images of the group so­lidified over time and how they varied among the papers. 
• Lynn Friedewald and Christopher Martin, two Notre Dame seniors, received top awards from the University's office of student affairs at the Student Leadership Banquet 
see AWARDS/ page 8 


TOYO GRtll 
Traditional Japanese/Korean, Yakiniku 
Sushi, Teriyaki, Bulgogi, Shabo Shabo -CaD for Reservations­
Tues-Pri ll-2:30 (lunch) 5-9:30 (dinner) Carry Out Available 620 W. &iisoo Rd. • Mishawaka Sablrday -Sunday: 4-9 SL Audn:ws.' Plaza • 2.54-9120 

Me siento pevseguida, me sienta acosada... 
Happy B-Day! 
Hildita, Mimi, Nancy, Amy, Christian, Lonnie, Gaib, Vicente &Adam 

Audition 
for 


READERS 
for 

Baccalaureate 
& 

Seniors' Last Visit to the Grotto 
Tuesday & Wednesday, April 26 & 27 at4:00 pm at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
•

0f\1U5 
1V11NI51RY 
page 6 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 27, 1994 





Arthur Andersen Welcomes the Following 1994 University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firm 





Christopher Adler 
Chicago Office 
Elizabeth Baillargeon 
Chicago Office 
Christopher Barry 
Chicago Office 
Angeles Beltri 
Houston Office 
Michael Bremner 
Chicago Office 
Jane Brooks 
Chicago Office 
Anthony Buffomante 
Chicago Office 
Robert Burke 
Chicago Office 
J. Russell Carr 
Chicago Office 
Carolyn Carson 
Chicago Office 
Dennis Dixon 
Pittsburgh Office 
Greg Graceffa 
Boston Office 
Amy Hughes 
Chicago Office 
Christopher Ike 
New York Office 
Regina Kearns 
New York Office 
David Kisch 
Minneapolis Office 
Aaron Kutylo 
Chicago Office 
Ann Laing 
Denver Office 
Daniel Lee 
Chicago Office 
Megan Lee 
Washington, D.C. Office 
Robert Leonard 
Atlanta Office 
Tiffany Loughren 
Pittsburgh Office 
Sarah Lowthorp 
Minneapolis Office 

Elizabeth McConnell 
Chicago Office 
James McGuire 
Minneapolis Office 
Colleen O'Connor 
Atlanta Office 
Theodore Peterson 
Cincinnati Office 
Anne Pierson 
Atlanta Office 
Ryan Regan Washington, D. C. Office Colleen Reichart 
Chicago Office 
Benjamin Roese 
Chicago Office 
Kimberly Rouster 
Atlanta Office 
Michael Scrudato 
New York Office 
John Sebastian 
Chicago Office 
Christian Sepe 
New York Office 
Thomas Seurynck 
Chicago Office 
Daniel Sheridan 
Chicago Office 
Kimberly Sweeney 
Pittsburgh Office 
Megan Swiderski 
New York Office 
James Tierney 
Chicago Office 
Douglas Vincent 
Chicago Office 
Astrid Wehner 
Chicago Office 
Edmund Weiss 
New Jersey Office 
Greg Wozniak 
Chicago Office 
Jinhy Yoon 
New York Office 






at ~,  
St. Vincent de Paul Society Think of us and Help us help others Please donate any .:lathing furnitural or mis.:aUaneous items in the barrels in your donn. can 234-6000 for pi.:k-up of large items ar with questions.  
8 a.m. ­4:30 p.m. 256-3260 5:30p.m.-12 p.m. 271-0125  

~----~­

Wednesday, April 27, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 


We Deliver! Finals Special 
President's Medal awarded 
Special to The Observer 
William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's College, has an­nounced that two alumnae will receive the 1994 President's Medal. The honorees are Sister Basil Anthony O'Flynn '46, assistant to the vice president of college relations, and Portia Prebys '66, director of the Saint Mary's Rome Program. 
Sister Basil Anthony. whose career as an administrator with the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and at Saint 

r--------------------------------------,
valuable coupon Your Graduation should be Heavenly So have a Heavenly Ham Party 
Platters Homemade Salads Heavenly Ham Potato Heavenly Turkey Turkey Combo Ham Vegetable Baked Beans 
Croissants Baked Daily 
Heavenly Hams ~X Corner of Edison & Ironwood Order 48 HRS. 2307 Edison Road .:•* ~~ ~; in Advance HOURS 10-5 M-F, 10-2 SAT ·~ ~ ®e• • CALL 288-4267 
L--------------------------------------~ 
~~.. Mike McGlinn Bughaus Slope
STUDENT UNION BOAIU> 

FREE COFFEE, LEMONADE, 
DONUTS, AND PRETZELS!!! 
Thursday (April 28th) 9-1 The Huddle 
Mary's College spans almost 50 promise of the future. years, has held almost every Portia Prebys, Ph.D., will also senior position at the College receive the President's Medal at including dean of students, vice this year's commencement. president for fiscal affairs, vice Prebys has been affiliated with president for campus affairs the Rome Program from its in­and acting vice president of col­ception, first as a faculty mem­lege relations. ber and later as director. In 
But it is her individual brand her capacity as director of the of waunth, wisdom and humor Rome Program, she has been that has made Sister Basil An­active in The Association of thony one of the most beloved American College and figures on campus. For alum­University Programs in Italy, nae, faculty and staff of all serving as its president, and as ages, she has been a link to the a member of the Board of the College's heritage and the Fulbright Commission in Italy. 
lfim O'Neill XYZ Affair 


271-0125 

5 p.lll. -12 p.lll. 7 days a week 

• 
Lemon Chicken, Egg Rolls 

• 
Chicken, Shrimp or Vegetable Fried Rice 

• 
Sweet & Sour Chicken 

• 
Cashew Chicken, Garlic Chicken 

• 
Vegetable Deluxe, Mongolian Beef 


Minimum $10 purchase 
Iraq agrees to speed weapons monitoring 
By NABilA MEGALLI 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain 

Iraq joined the chief U.N. weapons inspector Tuesday in agreeing to speed creation of an arms monitoring program, a step that could lead to lifting of a 32-month-old embargo on Iraq's oil exports. 
A joint statement issued after three days of talks in Baghdad said "both sides reiterated their commitment to continue and accelerate" their efforts. 
Activation of a long-term monitoring plan to make sure Iraq does not resume produc­tion of any weapons of mass destruction is a key condition that must be met before the 
U.N. Security Council will con­sider lifting an embargo. 
Iraq wants removal of sanc­tions imposed after its 1990 in­vasion of Kuwait. 
Iraq's oil-based economy is in tatters. Since the embargo was imposed, severe shortages of basic commodities have fed growing public discontent. 
Baghdad says it has complied with U.N. cease-fire demands that Iraq accepted after the Gulf War ended in 1991. 
It says it ordered elimination of its weapons of mass destruc­tion -nuclear, biological and chemical -and long-range missiles. 
The Security Council has asked a U.N. Special Commis­sion overseeing Iraq's compli­ance with the resolutions to re­port by Thursday on Iraq's progress. 
page8 The Observer • STUDENT AWARDS Wednesday, April27, 1994 
Awards 
continued from page 5 
April6. 
Friedewald, a senior from Sarasota, Fla., received the Rev. A. Leonard Collins Award, given to graduating senior who has made substantial personal effort to advance the interests of Notre Dame students. 
Involved with students activi­ties, since her freshman year, Friedewald has participated in student government in numer­ous capacities, including chief of staff, student senator and of cerebral palsy. 
• Ireno "Bong" Miquiabas, a Notre Dame senior from Wauseon, Ohio, majoring in Government and international studies, has been named the 1994 recipient of the Notre Dame Alumni Association Dis­tinguished Student Award. 
Miquiabas, whose concentra­tion is in the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, is an active member of the Keenan Hall community as served as pro­ducer of the dorm's 1994 Keenan Revue. 
During his undergraduate years, he has served as chair of the Student Senate Ethics Committee, counselor to the Student Body President, and co-chaired the Student Government Report Committee to the Board of Trustees on Financial Aid Policies. 
• Reynold Nesiba, a Notre Dame fifth year graduate stu­dent in the department of Eco­nomics, has been named the 1994 recipient of Notre Dame Alumni Association Distin­guished Graduate Student Award. 
Nesiba, whose primary re­search field is Money, Banking and Financial Institutions, presently serves as a Graduate Teaching Fellow in the Univer­sity's Freshman Writing Pro­gram and is working full-time on his doctorate thesis titled "Evaluating the Impact of Bank Mergers on Patterns of Resi­dential Mortgage Lending: A Case Study of Northern Indiana. 

Among the top students in the department, Nesiba chaired the committee which organized the GSU and Graduate School's new graduate student orientation program and the· University's most ever attended teacher­training workshops. 
I 

Nesiba has assisted the Alumni Association during Reunion and Ederhostel pro­grams, was a graduate student representative to the Academic Council and its sub-committee on graduate affairs, and has been active with a South Bend community group, Citizen's Action for South Bend Housing­Plus. Currently he serves on the Early Childhood Development Center-Notre Dame Ad-Hoc Advisory Board and is a hall fellow for Saint Edward's Hall. 
president of Breen-Phillips Hall, her campus residence. •Martin, a senior from Toms River. N.J., and Keenan Hall received the John W. Gardner Student Leadership, given to the graduating senior who ex­emplifies the ideals of the Uni­versity through outstanding vol­unteer service outside the University community. Active in community service since his freshman year, Martin has participated in a Southern Service Excursion, Urban Plunge and Summer Service Project. While a student in the University's Mexico City inter­national studies program, he was active in service to victims  YOU'VE COME A LONG WAY, BABY! HAPPY 21st TO KIM WITH A "V" LOVE VA -MOM, DAD & WICKIE  

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Considerations .... 
As the 1993~94 academic year comes to a close, I would like to"share some thoughts with you. 
Next week, while final exams will be the order of the day for most students, a Student Government~sponsored report on the Catholic Character of Notre Dame from a student perspective will be presented to the members of the Board of Trustees. Several students have spent many hours this year researching and writing this report. Thousands of undergraduates have participated in this significant project through conversations in the residence halls and by filling out a survey. 
One of the topics that will be treated at length will be the role that the celebration of the Eucharist. plays in the life and formation of Notre Dame people. 
The women and men of the Class of 1994 had many opportunities to worship in residence hall chapels and in the Basilica. There were class Masses at the Grotto and section Masses in the halls. 
But you also participated in Masses which marked meaningful moments for all of us. 
There were the liturgies to celebrate Freshman and Transfer Student Orientation, and Junior Parent Weekend. And the second last public function of the Class will be Mass with parents and friends during Commencement. 
Special liturgies provided moments of prayer at the beginning of each academic year and at the end of every Notre Dame Encounter. The Eucharist brought the Notre Dame Community together to pray for peace during the Gulf War and to remember students who died during the past four years. 
The Class of 1994 was part of the impressive Masses at the JACC which marked the beginning and the end of the Sesquicentennial Year. And no one who was present will soon forget the Memorial Mass for Meagan Beeler and Coleen Hipp. 
Whether these Masses were the ordinary celebrations at the beginning of the week or liturgies to unite us at a special moment as little else does, all of us who are part of these celebrations know how central the Eucharist is to our life of worship as followers of Jesus Christ. 
Within a few days, seniors will be receiving a letter from Campus Ministry that may be pretty important in this context. 
We asked Notre Dame club pre!)idents in many cities across the country to provide us with the names of parishes where young people would feel at home and be welcome to use their considerable talents in different ministries. At the same time, we asked for parishes serving African American and Latino communities. All the information we have received to date will be made available to seniors, so that as they begin their professional careers or graduate studies they will have an idea of where they might want to worship on Sunday. 
' We hope this information will be helpful to you. And if you find yourself in a city not listed and discover a liturgy you really enjoy, drop us a note so that we can update our list for next year! 
As the school year ends, there are so many people to thank for their collaboration with our staff. Over five hundred students are part of the nine choirs sponsored by Campus Ministry and hundreds more participate in different ministries at the Basilica and in the residence halls. Liturgical commissioners have worked hard to make worship meaningful in the residence halls. 
Communities NO has brought hundreds of undergraduates together to check in with each other and to discuss the readings for Sunday and how these are meaningful for their day to day lives. 
The Notre Dame Encounter and the Fourth Day boards and participants have-again worked hard to provide a wonderful religious experience for more than six hundred undergraduates. Dozens of retreats have been offered, as have many different Bible study groups. 
Many rectors work closely with us, as do some of the members of the 
staff at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The 1994 edition of "Keeping the Faith" provided us with a chance to share perspectives on Christian Sexual ethics in an open and honest way. 
Our staff next year will include four new members. And we will say goodbye to someone who is very special to all of us, Father Tom McDermott, who returns to East Africa in July.
. 

The secret to any success we experience after God's grace, is hard work and working closely with students who serve best and most effectively as ministers to their peers. 
We are already planning welcoming events for you in August! Before they take place, however, have a great summer, and thanks for all your help. And good luck and God's blessings to the Class of 1994. 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
--------~-----~-----------~---­
page 9 


City of South Bend to honor Saint Mary's 
On April 29th, Daniel Reagan will be 40... and he still has his hair! 
Happy Birthday 

Love, Margot, Brigid, Coley, Kate, Annie and Jim 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
News Writer 
As part of its sesquicentennial celebration, the achievements of Saint Mary's College will be honored by those in the greater South Bend community Thurs­day night at Century Center, according to Maureen Manier, the Saint Mary's director of public relations. 
"The community is doing this for Saint Mary's because it is their desire to pay tribute to the College and with the excep­tion of one representative from the College serving on the plan­ning committee, the community has done the majority of the work involved," said Manier. 
Barbara Henry, director of alumnae relations, serves as the Saint Mary's representa­tive. Sets of honorary co-chairs also working on the planning 
!l{appy 21st 'Birthday Moja! May 5 is a very [ucl(y day! 
(joi13less You. 
.Love, Mom & t])atf 

committee include long time supporters of the College and civic leaders Pat and Art Decio, Bob Raclin, and Dot and Dar Weikamp, according to Manier. 
Raclin, who is chair of the board at First Source Bank, will be the master of ceremonies at the tribute. 
All faculty from Saint Mary's and the University of Notre Dame were invited to the trib­ute and guests include Saint Mary's president William Hickey who will speak, and Notre Dame President Father Edward Malloy. Mayors from South Bend, Mishawaka, and Elkhart will also attend, and each will pay tribute. 
"In his address, President Hickey will focus on the contri­butions made by Saint Mary's to the surrounding communi­ties. These include students who are involved through their studies, an active administra­tion and the fact that the Col­lege has been a long-time cul­tural center for the commu­nity," said Manier. 
He will also refer to the eco­nomic impact that the College has had on the community. Saint Mary's contributes $33 million a year to the local econ­omy through over 400 full time employees, students, families, and the contributions of local Saint Mary's alumnae, ac­cording to Manier. 
In addition to various speak­ers, there will be a perfor­mance by the Saint Mary's Col­lege Women's Choir and a ten minute sesquicentennial video presentation documenting the history of the College. 
i 
l
!:! 
<D <D 
"' 

I' You could rent any truck. :IJ '< 
"­
-< 
0 
:IJ 
~ 
"' 
~ 
fl 
=!'

Then again, you could've "' 2 ,.-~ 
"­
"' 
c 
(n 
'p 
}> 
~ 
~

gone to any school. " 1ii 5 s· :;­
c 
!!!. 
0 
0 
" 

There are thousands of colleges out there. Fortunately, you made a good choice. Now make the right choice when you leave. Rent a truck from Ryder. 
Ryder makes your move easy. With a convenient toll-free reservation number. 
Clean, reliable vehicles that are easy to load and drive. Fast processing to speed up check­
in and check-out. And a 24-hour Roadside Assistance Line for help along the way. 
So put your education to good use cmd calll-800-GO-RYDER (1-800-467-9337) 
or call your local Ryder dealerfor special student rates: 
51370 U.S. 33 North 2715 N. Bendix Dr. 219-272-1669 219-277-3550 


--------------------------.-------~ 
April 27, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 10 






1199~~ 

AILUIM\NII SllUIIDIENll IPIICNIIC & SIENI!OifZ SIENID OIFIF 



April30 • 11:00-1:30 
Come meet reps from Alumni Clubs all over the country 
ALABAMA Greater Orlando Dubuque MISSOURI Oeveland 
1EXAS 
Alabama (Birmingham) Greater Tampa Bay The Quad Cities .Kansas City Columbus 
Ausin Mobile Miami Siouxland St. Louis Dayton 
Corpus Christi Northern Alabama North Central Florida Waterloo/Cedar Falls Lorain County 
Dallas MONTANA Mahoning 
El Paso 
Eastern (Billings) Mansfield Fort Worth Alaska (Anchorage) North FL (Jaclsonville) Salina Western (Missoula) Northwestern Ohio Houston 
The Palm Baches Topeka Springfield Laredo ARIZONIA Pensacola Wichita NEBRASKA Toledo San Antonio Phoenix Sarasota/Manatee County 
ALASKA KANSAS 
Omaha Southeast/Eastern New Mexico Tucson Southwest Florida KENTUCKY Tallahassee Central KY <Lexington) NEVADA OKIAHOME 1liAH 
Utah (Salt Lake City) ARI(ANSAS Treasure Coast Kentucky (Louisville) Las Vegas Oklahoma City Arkansas (Little Rock) Western Kentucky/Paducah Reno/Northern Nevada Tulsa VERMONTGEORGIA Vermont
CALIFORNIA Atlanta LOUISIANA NEW HAMPSHIRE OREGON Bakersfield Augusta New Orleans New Hampshire Eugene viRGINIACA Central Coast Greater Savannah Northern LA (Shreveport) Portland mueRidgeCentral CA South LA (Baton Rouge) NEW JERSEY Charlottesville Chico/Northern CA HA.WAII Central New Jersey PENNSUVANIA SE Virginia Inland Empire Hawaii (Honolulu) MAINE. Jersey Shore Centtral PA (Johnstown) 
Richmond Los Angeles Maui Maine Northern New Jersey Erie Monterey Bay South New Jersey Greensburg/Uniontown 
WASWNGTON Orange County mAHQ MARYLAND Pittsburgh 
SpokanePalm Springs Idaho (Boise) Maryland NEW MEXICO Hanover Township Western Washington (Seattle) Sacramento NM (Albuquerque) Harrisburg San Francisco Bay Area ILLINOIS MASSAWUSEIIS Northern NM (Santa Fe) Lehigh Valley MHvlRGINIA San Joaquin Aurora/Fox Valley Berkshire County Philadelphia Ohio Valley (Wheeling) San Jose CentraliL (Springfield) Greater Boston NEWYORI( Pocono Mountains Santa Barbara Cook County (Chicago) Greater Springfield Long Island Reading WISCONSIN Ventura County Decatur Worchester County Mid-Hudson Valley Schuylkill County Central WI Eastern IL (Champaign) New York City Scranton Green Bay /Fox Valley COLORADO Joliet MICHIGAN Staten Island LaCrossw/Winona Colorado Springs Lake County Ann Arbor Buffalo PUERTO RICO Milwaukee Denver McHenry County Detroit Central NY (Syracuse) Puerto Rico (San Juan) Madison Naperville/Lisle Flint F'mger Lakes CONNECTICUT Peoria Grand Rapids Mohawk Valley RHODE ISLAND 
WYOMING 
Fairfield County Rock River Valley Jackson Northeastern NY Rl/ Southeastern Mass. Wyoming Greater Hartford Rockford Kalamazoo Rochester Naugatuck Valley Starved Rock Lansing Triple Cities smiTH CABQLINA 
New Haven Upper Peninsula Charleston Southeastern Connecticut INDIANA Monroe NQBlH CABQUNA Hilton Head 
Fort Wayne Muskegon Charlotte SCIMidlands OISIRicr QE t;QU.!MJUA Indianapolis Northern Michigan EasternNC SC/Piedmont Washington D.C. LaPorte "County Saginaw Valley Greensboro 
Kokomo 5QliTHOAKQIA DELAWARE Northwest IN (Hammond) MINNESQTA NQRTII OAKQIA Black Hills Delaware (Chadds Ford) St. Joseph Valley Minneapolis NoOub Sioux Falls 
Tri-State Rochester 
FLQRWA West Central Indiana .QHlQ TENNESSEE Emerald Gold Coast Akron Memphis FL Gold Coast (Boca Raton) .IQWA MISSISSIPPI Canton Nashville 
Fort Lauderdale Des Moines Mississippi (Jackson) Cincinnati 
;~ Raffle for Seniors ;,,...~ c UJ ' Dining Halls will be closed c UJ ' Complimentary pins for the Class of '94 

Wednesday, April 27, 1994 
The Observer • YUGOSLAVIA NEWS page II 
r·Fo~---;;.·~~~---illr~-rffi-iiiio~---~;ii-, 
i (312) 362-8810 or return coupon. i Mail to: DePaul University, Kellstadt : Graduatt> School of Busin!'SS, MBMMF, I E. i .)a('kson Blvd., Chkago IL (i0004. lntem!'t:!PC:HADIW3@ WPPO~'T.DEPAUL .EDU. 
l ~A.\tE 
! IIOMt; AIJUUt:ss 
f CITY/~TAn:tZII' 

Serbs back off Gorazde 
By MAUD BEELMAN 
Associated Press 
all known Serb weapons sites in the zone had been cleared, said a U.N. spokesman in Sarajevo, Cmdr. Eric Chaperon. 
He said that did not necessar­ily mean the Serbs had fully complied, saying it was not clear if some weapons re­mained in the area. He said the United Nations would not be able to fully check until Wednesday. 
But the reports, along with comment by senior U.N. and Pentagon officials, indicated that NATO would not strike for now. 
At the Pentagon, a senior offi­cer said air strikes were "high­ly unlikely" because "every­thing seems to be moving in the right direction." The officer spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
U.N. Security Council Presi­dent Colin Keating of New Zealand said in New York that the news was "encouraging," saying the Bosnian Serbs "were going in the right direction." 
Earlier, U.N. and NATO mili­tary leaders meeting Tuesday in Brussels, Belgium, were res­olute, saying the latest deadline must be met or air strikes would be launched. 
"Nobody is gung-ho, but we're all absolutely firm," said Sir John Weston, Britain's am­bassador to NATO. 




'JOB TODAY, GONE TOMORROW' 
Heartland Industries. 75 years old and showing its age in lower profits, sinking sales and uncompetitive products. An imaginary company, yes, but all too real a picture of American business today. Price Waterhouse invites you to join us for this fascinating episode of On the Issues. Watch leaders from the worlds of business, government, academia and labor think out loud as they struggle at the crossroads where moral 
• • • • .d Presented by Maryland Public Television.
dilemmaS and tOUgh bUSineSS deCISIOnS COlli e. Produced by Alvin H. PMmutter,lnc. 
Hosted by John Chancellor 

APRIL 29, 10 P.M. ON PBS. CHECK LOCAL LISTINGS. 
We need to die;connect the benefit e;ye;tem to make It portable. 
The true;t factor We have too jue;t ie;n't there much labor anymore. and too much 
In no cae;e hae; a union brought a company to life. 
Underwritten by 
Price J#Iterhouse 
Hopefully, the part-timing of Americanjobe; /e; going to be temporary. 

30 days in respect of the late President Richard Nixon. See page 15 for a look back at Nixon's career . 
•  Chris lnycb... !I marc daysl We can·awail far JllllCIIDC HIMEl Caadlucllan Finals •• ThcFa•ily  
SOME people think the Honor Code doesn't work at ND. SOME other people are no longer at ND.  

BRUNO'S PIZZA 
THE EARLY WEEK SPECIAL IS BACK! 
Two 12'' Pizzas 

$1ooo 
CALL NOW!! 
Not to be combined with any other offer. Offer Good Now-Thursday 
Carry Out/ Delivery 
273-3890 


page 12 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April27, 1994 
tures, 3.971; and Susan Jay, government and international

China Air crash kills 261 Honors studies, 3.943; 
By DAVID THURBER 
Associated Press 

NAGOYA, Japan 
A Taiwanese jet apparently trying to abort a landing crashed, exploded and burned beside an airport runway Tues­day night, killing 261 people. Ten people survived. 
The crash of the China Air­lines A300-600R Airbus was Japan's second worst aviation disaster. 
Minutes before the crash, pi­lot Wang Lo-chi radioed that he· would abandon his landing at­tempt and try again, a Trans­port Ministry official said. The pilot gave no reason. 
In his last transmission, he said only: "Going around." 
A survivor identified as Syl­vanie Detonio of the Philippines was quoted by Fuji TV as say­ing passengers had no warning the plane was in trouble. 
Flight 140 carried 256 pas­sengers, including two infants, and 15 crew, bound from Taipei, Taiwan, to Nagoya. Most were from Japan or Taiwan. 
A witness interviewed on the Japan Broadcasting Corp. (NHK) said the plane failed in an attempt to pull back up just before landing. 
The right wing touched the ground just before the crash, Chang Tai-hsih, chief of the China Airlines branch in Japan, told reporters. Chang and oth-
Introducing Michiana's #1 Pizza 
Starllte Plzza 
now seruing at Frank's Redhots #273-4643 1733 South Bend Rue 

If It Doesn't Fit 
Source: Jane's All the World's Aircraft 
ers discounted reports of en­gine trouble in Taipei before the 1,180-rnile flight to Nagoya. 
Another witness told NHK the plane hit nose-first near the start of the runway and ap­peared not to have had its land­ing gear down. Three ex­plosions followed and the plane erupted in flames, he added. 
Airport officials said they could not confirm if the landing 



Ship lt. 
Whether heading For college or home For vacation. Mail Boxe.s Etc. USA will get your things there safer. faster and all in one piece. we even P<lCk your boxes for you' 
The Post Office Alternative 
MAlL BOXES ETC. USA® 
ON CAMPUS 
AT THE STEPAN COURTS §£ AT THE LYONS COURTS 
Mon.-Sat. May 2 • 7 lOam-Spm Wed.-Sat May 4 • 7 lOam-Spm 
*IN THE MARTIN'S IRONWOOD NORTH SHOI'I'ING I'LAZA * 18115 S.R 23 FAX# 277-7679 HOURS: MON.-FRI. 9:00i\M-7:00PM SAT. 10:00AM-6:00PM CALLAND ASK ABOliT FREE PICKUP OF YOUR BOXES CALL EARLY TO RESERVE A I'ICKUI'TIME 
PHONE# 277 • 6245 
gear was down, or give any in­formation on the crash's likely cause. 
Hours after the crash, about 3,000 police, firemen and troops were cautiously lifting wreckage with cranes and searching by hand for bodies. 
"When I got to the plane, it looked so bad that I thought ev­eryone must have died. But then I heard a woman calling in pain for help and I called for a stretcher and we rescued her," said Takahide Miyagi, an assis­tant fire chief. 
The plane crashed several hundred yards to the right of the runway. Had it gone 200 yards more straight ahead, it would have hit a housing area. 
The jet ended up just short of hangars of an Air Self-Defense Forces base at the airport. The airmen's quick response was credited with saving lives. 
Kenji Hayashi, airport man­ager for China Airlines, said the passengers included 153 Japanese and 101 foreigners, many from Taiwan. The two in­fants aboard were believed to be Japanese. 
Officials said a Filipino, two Taiwanese and seven Japanese survived. 
Don't throw away your unused Pens, Penci Is and Paper! 
DONATE THEM! 
Pi Sigma Alpha is collecting them to send to a struggling school in Benin, West Africa. 
continued from page 1 

Rouen. The other highest ranking Notre Dame graduates are 
• 
also in the College of Engi­neering, Christopher Martino, electrical engineering, 3.935; and Philip Voglewede, mechan­ical engineering, 3.930; 

• 
in the College of Arts and Letters, Brian Gates, theology and philosophy, 3.981; Carol Smoller, government and in­ternational studies and ro­mance languages and litera-



Look for boxes in your dorms, 314 O'Shag. and Decio from April 29 -May 6. 
• 
in the College of Business Administration, Thomas Seurynck, accountancy, 3.969; Kathleen Sonntag, accountancy and history, 3.954; and Amy Hester, accountancy and sociol­ogy, 3.924; 

• 
in the College of Science, Genevieve Yoder, biological sci­ences; 3.956; Kathleen Glines, mathematics, 3.942; and Jacob Roberts, physics, 3.921; 

• 
and in the School of Archi­tecture, David Colgan, 3.712. 




How old are you? 
Happy 21st B-day! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Anthony & John 

-----...--~---·-------~-------~-----------------------------., 





VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April27, 1994 page 13 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad D"-'ign Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Direcror ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 


FRANK PIMENTEL HEARTS AND MINDS 
The second goodbye to ND proves more difficult 
How to say "goodbye" ... again down at the college. love to have that worry now. both. But all I know is that six Most importantly, though, are Maybe it would be better to just Junior year was readjust­There was also the long­weeks into First Year, when the my friends. We've had Senior say, "Take care, and I'll see you ment, hard work again, and re­anticipated senior trip to USC Lord took Mom home, the cards Bar Wednesday nights, without soon." You see. this is my sec­acquaintance with my ROTC and our truly miraculous rally (and other things) I received fail, first and third years. We ond time leaving Notre Dame, commitment. The football team to upend the Trojans. That from my classmates re-sold me nad Thursday night bowling, and it's much more difficult continued its lethargic perfor­game turned it around for the on my alma mater. I was home and the "bowling cheer" foot­than the first. mances under its ever-opti­Irish and Pete and I saw it live. for the first time at Notre ball section. We should have 
1 began my first run under mistic leader. We were always Dame. had a national championship. the Golden Dome smack in the Academically, there was My initial observations after Then there were nonstop middle of President Reagan's Professor Miscamble's (he four years away were that debates in the lounge, especial­first term, and Gerry Faust's 'By the way, every-wasn't ordained yet) post­there were more (and more ly first year, when my class­stint as embattled head football body went to the World War II foreign policy beautiful) women around, foot­mates put up with my rhetoric. coach. I always liked Gerry, class and Professor Slabey's ball was in and basketball out, Thanks.
basketball games back 
though perhaps the memories Vietnam War Literature class. I homosexuality seemed a much become more misty with Holtz's then. We had David learned about the world my dad more pressing topic than I'm also grateful to my friend successes. I still treasure the grew up in and the war he before, and Saint Mary's was who's talked through much
Rivers and routinely 
early, late summer morning fought in. Dad won the bent on being a feminist with me of late. You're an an­when Faust made his way down made the NCAAs since Distinguished Flying cross over women's college. The place gel, and an "A" student in my the entire line of us freshman there, then came back and said missed Fathers Hesburgh and book.
twenty wins were rou­
shaking all of our hands with a "Hi" to the two-year old boy Joyce. Spiritually, there have been word of optimism for having tine.' who didn't recognize him. We But I also found that the law my recovering alcoholic friends. held vigil for our first Notre know how the country said "Hi" faculty was much to my liking. Thanks for always being there. Dame football tickets. Little did "just that much away" from to Dad and his colleagues. Let Professors Rice, Murphy, You've been a dream come true Pete (my roommate, longtime winning them all. But enough us never do that again. Kmiec, and Bradley were un-on campus. Keep the chain un­best friend, and now war hero) was enough, especially 58-7 And there was Professor broken, and one day at a time. or I know that whether first or down at Miami, and they Schmuhl's journalism class, May everybody have friends last, we'd be stuck deep in the brought Lou in. That early-sea­where I discovered that I en­' Notre Dame Law like you. end zone. son basketball game when they joyed writing stuff that might School has taught Thanks to my sisters for set­
Then there was the next introduced Coach Holtz to us at actually be read by somebody ting such a wonderful example
me that one can be a
spring, and the administration's halftime was heavenly. We all other than a professor, me, and for me in life. You've set the announcement of the new alco­saw our football savior at the Mom. So you're reading this. lawyer and, I think, a standard, and always will. hol policy. No more mass par­same time and raised the roof 
moral person. I'm more
ties in the Dillon Pub with "all of the ACC. Then it was off to the Army Finally, thanks to my God. you could drink." Well, to this and life after the Dome. As I'm idealistic than when I got You've blessed me beyond any­day I've never seen such out­By the way, everybody went told is common, I couldn't wait here, and that's flatly a thing I could have ever de­rage among the students. Over to the basketball games back to leave, and just as heartily served by putting me here. It 1000 of us stormed the Dome then. We had David Rivers and couldn't wait to tell outsiders testament to our faculty.' makes it that much harder to and held an impromptu protest routinely made the NCAAs since that I was a grad. Uncle Sam leave, having done it once and rally after our student-body twenty wins were routine. took me around the country then realizing what I had/have. president-elect hoisted a beer Senior year we knocked off and the world and, sociological­afraid to be politically incor­As Bruce says, "Mister, I ain't a to us on the steps of the sacred then-#1 and undefeated North ly, let me see how everybody rect. Professor Blakey made me boy, no I'm a man, and I believe building. Notre Dame survived Carolina under Digger's else lived. These were the men think hard about our system of in a Promised Land." and the administrators won. Goliath-slaying hand, and went I was supposed to lead. I criminal law, and also defended And in the words of President 
The next year was Ireland on to the Sweet 16. Until this wouldn't trade that experience the unborn. Perhaps he's in­Lincoln, "With malice toward and a new way of life. Freedom. past fall's football win over for anything, but my horizons, spired me to make a career out none; with charity for all," I Guinness and Bushmills. Girls Florida State, that was my as I saw it, were elsewhere. So of the criminal law. Notre Dame wish you all long lives and who would date me. Finding Notre Dame sports moment. having sobered up, I aimed for Law School has taught me that Godspeed. out how the rest of the world Every so often Digger used to law school, which took me back one can be a lawyer and, I got along and how important grab the PA mike during a here. As an adult. think, a moral person. I'm more Frank Pimentel is a 1987 America was to them. No heat, game to settle us down for The Law School here is rela­idealistic than when I got here, Notre Dame graduate, and will much rain, no washing ma­showing no class. While true, tively small. Some might call it and that's flatly a testament to graduate from the Law School chine, showers every now and I'd bet Coach MacLeod would a fish bowl, some intimate. It's our faculty. in May. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

IT5A BRAV& NewU/ORU?, 
V/1?6/NIA ... 
/ 
77--le FUTUR/3 FOR U/OM&N'S CI6AR£TT&5 HA?N6VE!l. 8t&N BR.IGHT&R.! WAIT'U. 7HtRRST TIM& 5N&AK? YOU 
IN7V 7H& 6/Ri£/ 
RIXJM... JtET 
ON& ?TRJK& 
OFAMATCH... 
/ 

''Therefore our everlast­
ing farewell take ...If we do meet again, why, we shall smile! If not, this parting was well made." 
-Shakespeare 
Julius Caesar 

~---------------.....-----~-----~~----­
page 14 Wednesday, April27,1994 
VIEWPOINT 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Honor Code fosters community of values 
Dear Editor: 

Prompted by recent events surround­ing the Academic Code of Honor, per­haps a reflection upon the purpose of the Honor Code and on the responsibilities of each member of the Notre Dame com­munity towards the Honor Code is in order. 
The University of Notre Dame is a community of students, faculty and administrators who come together to learn, work and grow in moral charac­ter. Central to the concept of community is a belief in the importance of honorable behavior for oneself and for the commu­nity as a whole. The Academic Code of Honor fosters this dual sense of honor­able behavior (The Academic Code of Honor Handbook}. 
When each student signs the Honor Code, not only should this mean that he/she acknowledges an acceptance of the Honor Code but it should also signify an intention to perpetuate the beliefs on which the Honor Code is based. This doesn't mean that each and every stu­dent has memorized the Honor Code ver­batim; but does mean that he has read and reflected on the content of the Honor Code and agrees to actively imple­ment it. 
The Honor Code is not meant to be an in detail policy, thus individual cases are meant to be handled by each Departmental Honesty Committee, con­sisting of both faculty members and members of the University's student body. Therefore it is not a cold and inan­imate paper which determines the acad­emic and educational fate of people accused of honor violations, rather it is a group of people representing the entire Notre Dame family. 
The reason the Academic Code of Honor has been adopted as an official University policy is that it "represents a valuable educational tool for exercising the power of community and for expressing the Christian values of the University. [And] by setting high stan­dards of conduct for the members of the Notre Dame community, the Academic Code of Honor formally recognizes the ability of students to take responsibility for their ethical behavior" (The Academic Code ofHonor Handbook). 
One source of confusion stemming from the Honor Code lies in the gray area of what is acceptable and what is not acceptable inside and outside of the classroom. In the wording of the Honor Code itself, "When a student is in doubt [as to what is acceptable or not accept­able], the instructor should be consulted for clarification." Therefore, clear lines for ethical behavior in class work should be established by the faculty and should be addressed by both the faculty and their students. 

As a community, students and faculty members need to open lines of commu­nication concerning the Honor Code. It is only through communication and edu­cation that the Honor Code can evolve as a policy and become better implemented in our academic community. Although there are problems and questions sur­rounding the Honor Code, that does not mean that it is not working, "the Academic Code of Honor reflects the responsibility each student assumes." 
Until the academic community as a whole accepts responsibility for the Honor Code and agrees to honestly put , an effort into actively following it, the ' policy cannot and will not make an effec­tive impact on our society. The women and men of Notre Dame (both the faculty and the students of the University) "determine the characteristics of the Academic Code of Honor which are the same as those of the University itself: the unity of the Notre Dame family, the spirit of friendship, the sense of personal pride and the Christian environment." 
DEBRA HEERENSPERGER JASON SCHROEDER Members Honor Code Committee 
Il-l£ ACA!/f:Hlc 
Cop-E: 
OF 
/-lotJoR HArJ)>50oK 

S fHI 


CHRISTOPHER KRATOVIL WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Random ruminations about Notre Dame's idiosyncrasies 
grip the campus publishing have had more to do with prin­community; if you haven't been cipals than with money? I following this quasi-absurdist rather suspect that this particu­drama, Scholastic has accused lar band would not generally The Observer of formulating an approve of Notre Dame's poli­insidious plot to run it out of cies towards homosexuals and business via the formation a that, if alerted to the existence "weekly entertainment maga­of such policies, the Violent zine." This tempest-in-a-teapot Femmes might elect to not play has gotten so bad that a our venue. Again. that's just a Student Government advertis­thought. ing boycott of The Observer has Besides, if Billy Joel can get been seriously discussed. himself banned from ND for, 
From the perspective of an according to popular myth, per­independent writer with no forming Only the Good Die particular loyalty to either Young, how would the local publication, the entire affair Thought Police have reacted to comes off as almost comic as Add It Up; "Why can't I get just self-important student govern­one ... " -because du Lac says ment-types prattle on about the so. nature of economic justice. While we're, on the music 
But on a deeper level this lit­front I'd like to raise a sincere tle turf war sends a disturbingly question. How is that little clear message about the level of Valparaiso University gets two intellectual vigor on this cam­big time concerts inside of a pus. According to the editor­week (the aforementioned and-chief of the Yale Political Violent Femmes and a little crates. and the accumulated Monthly, his university boasts known folk singer named Bob rubbish of an entire year. Isn't cratic facet of Notre Dame life ple of this phenomena. over two dozen regular, under­Dylan) while the renowned some sort of fire code being vio­to "tradition" (e.g. "how dare The economic impact of Notre graduate publications ranging University of Notre Dame gets 
lated here? you complain about tripping Dame on South Bend is obvi­from an alternative music mag­some campus bands playing at The individual rooms now ap­azine, Nadine ("the magazine Stonehenge?
over the remains of someone's ously tremendous; imagine how 
pear like cells in a sanatorium, loft on the way to take a final -much money even one football that wishes it was a band!") to • While it may not compare to complete with cold, hard floors it's an ND tradition!"). Saturday generates locally. purely academic journals like the conversion of Cavanaugh and barren (though not padded) the YPM. Notre Dame, a univer­into a women's dorm or the
• I have always been a great Notre Dame is the second 
walls. The scene outside the believer in the ultimate victory biggest tourist attraction in this sity with several thousand more transformation of Grace into an dorms, with discarded furni­of the free market system. entire state (which is sort of a students than Yale, offers office building, tragedy has also 
ture, rotting boxes and twisted Within my lifetime, I've seen frightening thought in and of it­maybe four undergraduate befallen Flanner Tower; after metal bedframes littering once capitalism conquer the Great selO. publications (The Observer, three .years as the Fighting pristine lawns has an almost Scholastic, Common Sense and Gamecocks, our friends at the
Red Menace, the emergence of Notre Dame and SMC stu­post-apocalyptic quality to it; I 24 hour stock markets, and the dents probably have more dis­the Science Quarterly. Ministry of Love {Student Worse yet, when The Affairs) have deemed, Flanner's
keep waiting for the gangs of transformation of certain small cretionary income than the av­
looters and National Guard Asian nations from obscure erage South Bend resident. And Observer attempts to partially proud mascot inappropriate troops to arrive. blotches of jungle into economic yet despite these facts the econ­rectify this situation by initiat­and sexually offensive. To quote 
I suppose the process of mov­giants. Yes, the laws of supply omy of South Bend somehow ing a new magazine, Scholastic, Planner's in-house news letter, ing out is almost inevitably and demand seemed as ir­manages to avoid fully filling Student Government and HPC 'Cock Talk, "did it take these chaotic, but my complaint is in refutable and constant as the this obvious market niche. Isn't go utterly ballistic, with one of people three years to get the the timing of this mess. principles of Newtonian any one around South Bend their primary arguments being joke?". Wouldn't it make more sense to physics... until I arrived in moved by Adam Smith's "invis­that this market simply can't If Flanner's mascot is really give students a 48 to 72 hour South Bend. ible hand?" Do local business­support another publication. If so offensive, why was it allowed "grace period" immediately fol­What is it with this town? men have something against Scholastic is right in this re­to be implemented in the first lowing finals in which they Most small cities with major making money by providing gard, then it is a truly sad state­place? Further, a major could deconstruct their rooms Universities have an almost goods and services for which ment about this University; how American college, the 
rather forcing us to live in symbiotic relationship with there is a demand? can we dare to compare our­University of South Carolina, 
squalor and chaos during the selves in quality to an Ivy uses an identical mascot, while
their college. The university There is something funda­most academically critical students provide an influx of mentally wrong with the world League school if we won't sup­the same can not be said for 
such dorm emblems as "Studs"phase of the year? cash into the local economy and when Russians can purchase a port even one quarter of the 

Indeed, in preparing this col­entrepreneurs create numerous Big Mac in what was once Red number of publications that or "Purple Weasels." umn I contacted students at they do? And on that divisive note this
businesses to meet the needs Square, while students at a fa­
several other prominent col­• The following is pure specu­little pre-finals gripe s~ssion
and demands of these valuable mous American university can't leges, all of whom, it turns out, consumers. Look at a town like even get to a McDonald's with­lation on my part, but has it oc­must end. 
have until after finals to pre­West Lafayette or even College out owning a car. curred to anyone that the rea­Christopher Kratovil is en­pare their rooms for inspection. Station, Texas to see an exam-• Controversy has come to son that the Violent Femmes rolled in the Freshman Year of Chalk up another odd, idiosyn-backed out of AnTostal may Studies. 
--~--~ -~---~--~ 
~aint 
ears 
Mary:s 


An aerial view of the Saint Mary's campus as it looks today shows the growth of the campus from the small academy founded in Bertrand, Mich. in 1844. 
Growth, future planning marks Saint Mary's contemporary era 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Ediror Emerita 

F
ollowing the fall-out of the merger with Notre Dame in 1972, Saint Mary's was left with a dif­ficult task-discovering and developing its own identity. 
Skeptics said that Saint Mary's would not survive on its own, and others said that if it did survive it would only do so as a nondistinct finishing school. 
But the College set out to prove all its critics wrong. It embarked on an era of uncertainty with much fore­sight. With the appointment of a new president, a comprehensive long-range plan and the vigilance of the leaders of the College Saint Mary's emerged out of its darkest times and into an age of constant growth. 
The man who led Saint Mary's during these tenuous times, President Edward Henry, announced his resig­nation in 197 4, two years after his appointment. Henry had taken a three year leave of absence from Saint John's College to lead Saint Mary's, but left after two saying that he had accomplished in two what he thought would have taken him three. 
Describing what.he saw as the future of Saint Mary's, Henry said that he at Saint Mary's as a place for women to discover their identities. 
"We want Saint Mary's to become an extension "of the ideals of this institution-as wives and mothers, yes, but also as responsible citizens, as competent pro­fessionals, as unique and total individuals who are well prepared to make their personal contribution to the betterment of an ever-changing world," Henry said. 
The Board of Regents began a new presidential search, and appointed Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty William Hickey acting president of the College in May 1974. 
Although he was not a permanent president, Hickey actively involved himself in improving the College. 
In an address to the Faculty Forum in August 1974, Hickey said that his plan for the College focused on improvement in the governance structure, academics, finances and development. 
During Hickey's acting presidency the faculty and student body continued to grow. Full-time faculty increased from 89 to 100 a 13 percent increase. The number of students rose from 1,480 to 1,646. 
The academic programs continued to flourish during Hickey's term. The Writing Clinic was initiated and directed by Alumna Mary Orr. '74. The clinic was not related to any specific course, and was designed to improve the quality of students' writing and provide assistance for those who needed more guidance. 
The department of psychology broadened its pro­gram from an orientation toward humanistic psycholo­gy to one that incorporated all the major approaches to behavior. The department received approval to build facilities conducive to research. The result was an eight-station psychology laboratory, animal room and learning and physiological laboratories. 
Keeping an emphasis on the liberal arts, the College expanded its business administration program. The number of majors rose from 64 in 1970-71 to 310 in 1974-76. 
The College also began an internship program and expanded its off-campus studies to include a coopera­tive program at American University in Washington, D.C. 
In addition to its academic programs Saint Mary's began an experimental to living facility. Augusta Hall, formerly a novitiate, opened to seniors so that they could design their own residence program. 
With growth in the population and the academic pro­grams, there was a need for a physical growth of the College. While many of the changes were not initiated until later, the Science Hall, the Alumnae Centennial Library and Saint Angela Hall gymnasium were all inadequate. 
With the growth of high school sports programs for girls, students arriving at Saint Mary's found a small sports program and an inadequate facility. 
The teams that practiced in Saint Angela did so on a slated floor in a deteriorating building. 
Hickey, alert to the growing need of the student pop­ulation, planned the building of an athletic facility that would be functional for both students and athletes. 
The construction of Angela Athletic Facility would be completed in 1977 during the next presidency. Made of translucent fiberglass and steel, the new building was a striking contrast to the rest of the brick campus building built in "campus gothic. 
When the tri-level complex opened in 1977, its facili­ties were utilized by nine varsity and nine intramural programs, as well as by the student body at large. 
In 1975, after a year and a half acting administra­tion, John Duggan, Vice President for Student Affairs at Vassar was named the 8th president of the College. Hickey reassumed his former position of vice president for academic affairs and dean of faculty. 
Duggan said that he wanted to maintain the best of Saint Mary's and improve the areas where the College lacked strength. 
Academically Saint Mary's continued to gain acclaim for its superior education of women. Saint Mary's was re accredited by the North Central Association in 1976 because of its "(1) sense of institutional vitality and 

Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives A student performs an experiment in the science building in the late 1970s. The renovation and expansion of the building was completed in 1987 to accommodate the growing number of students enrolling in the sciences. 
purpose; (2} strong fiscal position; (3) quality of stu­dent body and faculty; (4} administrative leadership," according to the report from a visiting representative of the Association. 
Duggan saw an education in the liberal arts as pri­mary and he continued to say that the tend toward vocational skills and practical training would not enable graduates to fill the ever-changing needs of society. 
"We emphasize learning how to think clearly and creatively, how to learn Alone and with others, how to speak and write with clarity and even style, how to understand ideas important to mankind, how to make decision and moral judgments," he said in his annual 
see GROWfH/ page 2 

page 2 The Observer •150 YEAQ6 OF 6AINT Mi\QY'6 Wednesday, April 27, 1994 
Saint Mary's branches out throughout the world 
By MARA DIVIS it, my job would not be as west of Dublin. Accent Writer rewarding." One of the main features of The distribution of courses in the program is that it immerses 
Taking a Wednesday tour of Rome are linked to the liberal students as much as possible Saint Peter's Basilica or ..the arts core curriculum at Saint into the regular Irish university Pantheon, playing poker with Mary's, but the fact that classes system, allowing them to min­Celtic natives on a damp Irish have acce(>s to much of what gle and associate with Irish evening or following early students read about in their students and avoid spending morning yoga classes in South history and art books makes most of their time with fellow India are all typical Saint the location rewarding, Checca Americans, according to the Mary's activities...for those said. College Archives. studying on one of Saint Mary's "In Italy all courses are Saint Mary's founded the pro­three international studies pro­related," he said. "(The profes­gram in 1977. Since then, the grams. sors) bring knowledge to the program has accommodated 
"Saint Mary's College recog­class. They are liberal arts more than 200 students from nizes the general educational classes related closely to Italian both Saint Mary's and Notre value of travel and study culture." Dame. abroad and cooperates as far The campus, celebrating its The program is designed to as possible in enabling interest­25th anniversary this year, is fulfill their core curriculum at ed students to take advantage located in the downtown his­Saint Mary's. Students apply of such opportunities," accord­toric area, five minutes from and undergo an interview ing to a pamphlet for the the Pantheon. It consists of a process before the 25 students College's Year in Ireland. classroom building and library, are selected each year. 
Saint Mary's has done this by and all instructors are Saint Ireland's culture and way of designing programs in three Mary's faculty. life is learned, giving students different parts of the world: Students stay at a nearby a viewpoint of Irish heritage. 
Ireland, Rome and an academ­hotel. Saint Mary's alumna "Teachers taught from an 
Photo courtesy of Rome Program

ic semester tour of Asia. Portia Prebys Spanu, a 25-year Irish perspective," Haiman 
Students in the 1985-86 Rome Program pose for a picture in front of 
Saint Mary's founded its own resident of Rome, directs the said. "They gave an Irish view Saint Peter's Basilica. The College opened the satellite campus in branch campus in Rome in Rome campus. of America." 1970. 1970 and has sent an unlimited The program's on-site direc­number of students to this A year in Ireland also pro­tor, who serves as a liaison to est have much to do with that believed in what we believed as campus each year since then, vides much to internalize, Saint Mary's, is an alumna and part of the world. It's impor-Christians," she said. "You find according to Peter Checca, according to Sarah Haiman, a Ireland resident. · tant for children to know about out more about your own reli-Rome program counselor. junior who studied last year Saint Mary's students are that." gion (though answering their 
"It's important that students with Saint Mary's program at plunged into clas!!es in the reg-The program tours China, questions.)" get this experience," he said "If Saint Patrick's College in ular Irish curriculum, which Japan, Singapore and the Pullapilly affirmed that the students did not believe in Maynooth, Ireland, 14 miles includes Irish culture, philoso-Philippines for a month, and exposure to abject poverty and 
phy, theology, European histo-then settles in Madras, India such a different system of ry, anthropology and English, for the rest of their semester. beliefs challenges many stu­taught mostly by Irish faculty. Students take courses in dents' own sets of beliefs. 
Students live in apartments sociology, history, literature, "When they get back, they're near campus with other Irish developing economics, religion, mature and confident; there's students. philosophy and arts and focus nothing they can't do after sur-
The main focus of the on aspects of Indian culture. viving so many climates, cui-Semester Around the World In addition to the program's tures, typhoons and earth-program is to see most of the curriculum, students are intro-quakes." highlights of Asia and the Far duced to individual Indian fam-Studying abroad is an impor­East, according to Program ilies, whom they visit on the tant tenet of a Saint Mary's Director Cyriac Pullapilly. weekends, Pullapilly said. The education, and it complements 
Saint Mary's initiated the relationship with the people of any academic track, according program in 1983 to introduce India is important, and is one to directors and program par­students to a rapidly changing of the most effective ways of ticipants. part of the world, radically dif-learning the culture. "It's important to experience ferent from North America and Discussion of traditional another culture, how other Western Europe. American backgrounds with people live and function," 
"It's a very important part of some Asian people she met was Checca said. "We're so provin­
Participants in the College's 1991 Semester Around the World learn 
the world," he said. "Three an eye-opener for sophomore cial functioning in one culture. 
about Indian culture from the natives of Mamallapuram, India. The 
fourths of the world's popula-Jill Jusick, who spent last I think it really completes the
College began the program in 1983 to let students experience interna­
tion lives there. The economic semester in India. mosaic that is the college edu­
tional study outside of Europe. 

interest, market, political inter-"People would ask us why we cation. 
walls of the Alumnae Centennial Library for student offices under one roof. since the survey's conception. (now Haggar College Center) swelled. Saint Mary's continued to expand to Heading into the 1990s, the College
Growth 

More than 10,000 books and 6,900 peri-meet its growing needs. instituted another long-range planning odicals had to be housed around the The Science Hall was inadequate. committee to study the needs of Saint continued from page 1 
campus. Only six years after it opened in 1955, Mary's and its students. After seven years of planning, ground the chemistry department began sub-As the College began to look and pre­report. 
was broken for a new library in 1980. mitting proposals to expand the space pare for its place in the 21st century,
With financial stability, capacity 
The Cushwa-Leighton Library would allocated to the department. they took time out to celebrate 150enrollment and notoriety as one of the cost $7 million. When completed in Plans began in 1955, but the renova-years of perseverance, excellence andbest women's colleges in the nation, 
1982, it was almost five times the size of tion and construction of a new wing did survival in 1994. 
Duggan warned that the College must 
the Alumnae Centennial. not begin until 1985. The project was The theme of the sesquicentennialcontinue to improve and not become The 1980 graduation , which took completed in 1987. The renovations "Honoring Tradition...Pioneeringapathetic. 
place on the new library green, includ-and addition cost $6.5 million and dou-Change" focuses on the ways in which"We will not...allow our strengths to ed a dedication ceremony for the bled the previous space of the hall. the leaders of Saint Mary's have provid­lull us into complacency," Duggan said. 
library. In 1986 following John Duggan's ed a base for building and innovation. 
"We must continue to maintain and 
retirement, Hickey was promoted to the The first 150 years of Saint Mary'seven improve our record." 
When the Alumnae Centennial was presidency by the Board of Regents. have been marked by the foresight of its The College continued to review its vacated plans were made to convert it As the 9th president of the College, leaders who never could have imaginedacademic, physical and spiritual needs. 
into a student center. Hickey was appointed at a time when what that small academy that acceptedLooking to the future, Saint Mary's An addition to house the Shaheen hard economic times were hitting pri-its first students in 1844 in Bertrand,prepared for the decrease in college-age 
Bookstore and extensive renovations vate colleges. Mich. would grow into the premierestudents. This foresight ensured finan­took two years. In the fall of 1984 The College dedicated itself to ensur-national Catholic women's college that itcial stability of the College while main­
Haggar College Center was dedicated. ing the superior education it had been is today. 
taining its excellence. 

The project cost the College $1.4 mil­recognized for. As Saint Mary's looks to the future itThe physical needs of the College were 
lion. Saint Mary's was recognized in annual has honored its past. In the spirit and a continuing concern. 
Haggar fulfilled a long-standing need U.S. News and World Report survey as dedication of those that have shaped the 
As the student population grew, the of the College-social space and space one of the best colleges in the midwest College-happy birthday Saint Mary's. 
THE CONTEMPORARY YEARS: 1974-1994 
1982-Dedication ofCushwa-Leighton
1977-Angela Athletic Facility dedicated 1979-Madeleva Society formed Library1975-John Duggan named 
College's eighth president -First students left U.S. for new Ireland program
1974 

1983-Shaheen Booksr
1976-Maria Pieta Faculty 1978-Saint Mary's Business 

1974-Board of Regents' resolution 
dedicatedAssociates hold first meeting 

allowing male visitation in individuals' Award given for first time -Semester Around the dormitory rooms abroad study program b 
-Mother Teresa od Calcuta spoke in O'Laughlin Auditorium -Coffeehouse opened in lower level of Dining Hall 



r 

/ 
Wednesday, April 27, 192~--" page 15 
/ VIEWPOINT 
LU ~ TO THE EDITOR 

-President Nixon: The architect ofpeace 
Dear Editor: 
Richard Nixon, 37th President of the United States, died this Friday at the age of 81. On this occasion it is appropriate to try to move beyond the visceral re­action which the mention of this enigmatic figure often evokes. This is a time when we should reflect upon his entire forty-eight year career in poli­tics and remember his contri­butions to his country and to world peace. 
President Nixon's political ca­reer began in 1946 when, shortly after returning from military service in the Pacific, he defeated five term incum­bent Congressman Jerry Voorhis (imagine that!). As a Congressman, Nixon began a mission of peace which would last nearly the next fifty years. 
In 1947 he joined the Herter Committee and traveled to Europe to facilitate the imple­mentation of the Marshall plan -the U.S. aid program crucial to stabilizing and rebuilding post-war Europe. Upon his re­turn, Nixon was a strong pro­ponent of aid to Europe despite the fact that opposition in his district meant this support was politically inexpedient. 
Nixon also served on the 

House Committee on Un­
American Activities (HCUA) 
where his efforts exposed Alger 
Hiss, a high ranking state de­
partment official, as a spy for 
the Soviet Union. Through 
Nixon's efforts Hiss was later 
convicted of perjury for lying to 
HCUA. 
In 1950 Nixon was elected to the United States Senate where he was a strong critic of the Truman administration's insuf­ficient efforts to combat the spread of Communism. He was particularly critical of Truman for adhering to a "Europe First" policy even as American sol­diers were fighting and dying in Korea. He called for a stronger commitment to victory in Korea -and to victory over repres­sive Communist regimes world­wide. 
In 1952, when General 

Dwight D. Eisenhower was 
elected president, Nixon was 
elected vice president. Because 
President Eisenhower was es­
sentially a non-politician, he 
needed and wanted Nixon to 
play a more prominent role 
than vice presidents had tradi­
tionally played. Nixon became 
one of the administration's key 
political strategists and also 
played a role in policy forma­
tion on many domestic and for­
eign policy issues. 
In 1953 he made a goodwill trip to shore up relations with nineteen far Eastern countries which the administration felt had been neglected by President Truman. He champi­oned the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization, an Asian collec­tive security system similar to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which had as its aim the prevention of hostilities through military and diplomatic alliances. He twice took over stewardship of the country after President Eisenhower suf­fered first a heart attack and then, two years later, a stroke. 
In 1960, Nixon made his first run for the presidency against Senator John Kennedy of Massachusetts. It was to be Nixon's first political defeat,· as he lost one of the closest presidential elections in United States histo­ry-49.7 per cent for Kennedy, 49.5 per cent for Nixon. On January 20, 1961, Nixon left government service. 
Although he spent the next eight years in private life Nixon con­tinued to play an active role in politics. He advised President Kennedy after the young ad­ministration's Bay of Pigs fiasco. He ran for Governor of California in 1962 (and lost badly). He campaigned for Republican candidates at the state and national level. 
In the United States he ad­

dressed influential organiza­
tions like the American Society 
of Newspaper Editors and 
spoke at the Bohemian Grove, a 
gathering of the nations leading 
Republicans. Throughout these 
years he stressed the need for 
America to "realize our destiny 
of pressuring peace and free­
dom in the world in the last 
third of the twentieth century." 
Nixon often referred to the 

period between 1962 and 1968 
as his "wilderness years," when 
he thought he was finished as a 
practicing politician. At the 
same time, though, he said that 
they were among his best 
years; years which he devoted 
to "learning more how I could 
best serve as President if I were 
elected." 
Should he be elected, he 

would assume the presidency 
more familiar with internation­
al politics and personalities 
than any president in history. In 1968 Nixon defeated Hubert Humphrey and was elected the nation's 37th president. As president, Nixon worked tire­lessly to bring peace to a trou­bled world and it is these ac­complishments for which he is best known and respected. 
First, President Nixon ended the U.S. war in Vietnam. When President Kennedy died in 1963 there were over 16,000 U.S. troops in South Vietnam; when Nixon was elected President in 1968 there were over 548,500. When he was re-elected in 1972 the scene was dramatical­ly different: U.S. troop strength 
in South Vietnam was under 25,000; by the time Nixon left office in 197 4 it was under 250 -the lowest level since President Eisenhower first sent in military advisors in the early 1950s. 
After U.S. troop withdrawal, President Nixon left behind a South Vietnam which main­tained its independence and territorial integrity until 1975. South Vietnam collapsed only after Congress eliminated {over Nixon's objections and vetoes) funding for the support of South Vietnam -funding on the basis of which the Paris Peace Accords had been negotiated. 
Second, President Nixon es­tablished diplomatic ties with the People's Republic of China. The importance of this diplo­matic coup cannot be over­stated. In 1969 China was, as it remains, the world's most pop­ulous nation. It was a nuclear power and it had one of the world's largest armies. Yet it had no diplomatic ties with the U.S. and virtually no trade, eco­nomic or cultural relations with the West. After Nixon's over­ture. China emerged from its angry isolation and is today a substantial U.S. trading partner and, potentially, one of the world's largest markets for U.S. goods. 

Additionally, the diplomatic ties have proven exceptionally rewarding, as evidenced by the fact that China has, over the years, worked with the U.S. in a myriad of contexts -most re­cently in support of United Nations resolutions against Iraq and the Bosnian Serbs. 
Third, President Nixon brought about detente with the Soviet Union. This lessening of ten­sions led, most impor­tantly, to the signing (during Nixon's presi­dency) of the first arms limitation treaties between the 
U.S. and the U.S.S.R. The Anti-ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty was an agreement to neither build a nation­wide ABM defense nor provide a base for such a defense sys­tem. 
The Interim 
Agreement, part of 
the SALT-I agree­
.. · ments, froze existing 
levels of land and sea 
based offensive ballis­
tic missile systems, 
committed each party 

not to construct addi­tional fixed land-based inter­continental ballistic missile (ICBM) launchers, not to relo­cate existing ICBM launchers, and not to update existing launchers. It also set limits on the numbers of submarine launched ballistic missiles and submarines in each country's arsenal. 
Detente also led to several non-military achievements: an agreement on united efforts to fight cancer. an agreement to work together on environmen­tal protection, the establish­ment of a joint program for the peaceful use of atomic energy, a maritime agreement covering transportation of goods, and several agreements to facilitate the conduct of business be­tween the two nations. 
The circumstances surround­ing President Nixon's departure from office are well known. His response to the break-in at the Democratic National Committee's headquarters (about which break-in he had no advance knowledge) was ill­conceived and poorly executed. He has, however, paid the high­est price for his misdeeds. He will be forever remembered as the first {and quite possibly the only) president to resign his office. 
However, on this occasion we should, at the very least, look beyond these misdeeds and remember him not only for his desperate acts to save his presi­dency but also for his years of service to the United States and the cause of peace. 
This service did not end with his resignation on Aug. 9, 1974. Rather, he continued in the post-resignation years to work at building bridges. He contin­ued to travel extensively and always met with foreign leaders -both those in power and those out of power -when overseas. 
Upon return from a trip he often sent memoranda to the current president on one sub­ject or another. He advised ev­ery one of his successors on foreign policy issues. Together with Presidents Ford and Carter, he represented the United States at the funeral of slain Egyptian leader Anwar Sad at. 
He was credited with helping to force the Bush administra­tion to do more to support Boris Yeltsin's fledgling democratic government in Moscow. Only weeks before his death Nixon was again in Russia meeting with government and opposi­tion leaders {notably former Vice President Alexander Rutskoi) and encouraging the Clinton administration to act aggressively to support democ­racy in Russia and the other former Soviet republics. 
In his first inaugural address President Nixon said that the greatest honor history could bestow was the title of peace­maker, and that "this honor now beckons America -the chance to help lead the world at last out of the valley of tur­moil and onto that high ground of peace that man has dreamed of since the dawn of civiliza­tion." · 
This honor beckoned Richard 

Nixon and one cannot fail to 
recognize that he seized his 
chance and worked assiduously 
to lead the world out of the val­
ley and onto the high ground of 
peace. 
BRIAN COFFEY Graduate Srudem in Law Off-campus 

Catholics do not have a monopoly on Christ 
Dear Editor: Even though the Orthodox and seems to mourn the fact that, for the bit simplistic. Several secular universi­
I was quite troubled after reading Catholic Churches are no longer in com­time being, theology professors will be ties do an outstanding job of educating Charles Rice's column this past Monday, munion with one another, when the able to teach without an ecclesiastical undergraduates; several ecclesiastical April 25, 1994 ("Will NO secularize and anathemas of 1054 were lifted on Dec. mandate. The Vatican is not the sole schools, on the other hand, seem to have forfeit its Catholic character?"). 6, 1965, Pope Paul VI and Patriarch guardian of Truth. very little regard for the interests of stu­
Professor Rice concluded with a star­Athenagoras recognized that the In my time in the Theology dents. tling, inaccurate, and offensive state­Catholic and Orthodox Churches share a Department at Notre Dame, I have stud­Professor Rice has attempted to con­ment: "The question arises, however, as common understanding. and expression ied under and worked with Protestant struct a unified theory associating all to whether Notre Dame can rightfully of the apostolic faith. The Vatican's Pro and Orthodox professors; all of them that is Good and True with the Catholic claim to be 'Our Lady's University' as Russia Commission reaffirmed this in a have treated the Catholic Church with Church and all that is evil and false with long as it rejects any significant connec­1992 document: "Catholics and objectivity and respect. The Catholic departure from the Catholic Church. tion with the body of her Son, which is Orthodox can bear common witness to professors I have encountered here have This is unacceptable since, as the very the Catholic Church. " While the term Christ before a world which yearns for treated non-Catholic Churches with re­existence of the Orthodox Churches "significant connection" is somewhat its own unity." spectful objectivity. proves, the Body of Christ is not coter­vague, limiting the Body of Christ to the The Dominican theologian Jean-Marie This situation has, I believe, enriched minous with the Catholic Church. Such Catholic Church is arrogant and totally Tillard has written that the Orthodox the education of countless students. an arrogant attitude is in direct opposi­unacceptable. and Catholic traditions "confess the Perhaps mandating professors would tion to the Vatican's expressed desire 
I am an Orthodox Christian in commu­same faith concerning not only God and give some people a sense of security, but that Catholics "both respect the dignity nion with the Bishops of Constantinople, Christ but also the inner nature of the would such a standard protect students of these [Orthodox) churches and avoid Antioch, Alexandria, and Jerusalem, all Church. They have the same sacramen­or deprive them? patronizing attitudes." of whom are equal in rank and authori­tal life, the same vision of the link be­Finally, Professor Rice suggests "that ty to· the Bishop of Rome according to tween Scripture and Tradition, the same one result of secularization is the deval­JOHN KLENTOS, JR. the Second Ecumenical Council (AD fundamental catechesis." uation of both undergraduate education Graduate Student in Theology 381). On a related issue, Professor Rice and the interests of students." This is a Off-campus 
L---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
, 

--...__




ACCE-NT 
... 

page 16 Wednesday, April27, 1994 
.... 
'Spelunker' bids final farewell as cartoonist completes studies 
BY MICHAEL RIMBERT 
It remained single panel for 
Accent Writer 
three semester until Hosler began to "itch to have charac­ters again." 
Today is the last day that the 
Hosler kept the namecomic strip "Spelunker" will 

"Spelunker" on his cartoon in 
run in The Observer. Jay 
order to ease his readers into
Hosler, the creator of 
the transition and he developed "Spelunker" is a Ph.D. candi­the main character, Hank. 
date in biology and his gradu­In a shy admission, Hosler ad­
ate studies are coming to a 
mitted that, "Hank is born from close. 
a caricature of myself. At leastHosler has already completed he is physically derived from
both a written and oral 
me." Hosler assures readers,qualification exam and is cur­however, that his life experi­
rently finishing work on a 
ences have not been nearly asresearch project and is hoping horrid as Hank's. 
to be ready to publicly present Hosler said that he "checks
his dissertation defense in out" cartoons from other
December. 
institutions regularly, and
Hosler, who has been writing consequently has a good idea of "Spelunker" for five years, says what kind of work circulates in that he hates to see the strip papers and other publications. 

end because he likes the char­"The student body as a whole acters, and would "hate to see has no concept of what it is like them walk off into oblivion." 
elsewhere, they take for grant­"I will kind of miss them," ed what they have," he said. 
Hosler said. "I supply dialogue for each of those individuals. 
Hosler submitted three stripsThey each speak for a different to the Indiana Collegiate Press part of my mind." 

Association last year and won a
ter and out came his "Cowboy" cover of a "Spiderman" comic ate strip. In print at DePauw,
Hosler also writes another first and third place. This year 

strip. book. He then took up drawing Skip was intended to exemplify
comic strip, "Cowboy", which he was a semi-finalist Charles
Hosler submitted three imitations of the book, and thus everything bad about the
he plans to continue after he 
Schultz College Cartoonist.
"Cowboy" strips to the editor of began his career as a cartoon­institution. "Here, he is the in­
finishes school. "Cowboy" 
This placed him in the top ten
"Comic Buyer's Guide" and ist. house, sexist pig," Hosler said.
appears weekly in the "Comic of 191 entrants from across the
immediately received a "I never could draw very real­"It is obligatory that every strip 
Buyer's Guide," a national 
nation.
response. To date, 52 istically," he said. "I am better have one." 
comic industry trade journal. 
Today's strip will tie

"Cowboy" strips have been pub­at being cartoony." Wilbur, the rat in
"Cowboy" emerged from a "Spelunker" up in a big loop, 

lished. Each "Spelunker" character "Spelunker,-:-is a character
collection of sketch books in according to Hosler.
does indeed have its own per­from Hosler's first strip,which Hosler doodles nightly. 
"I like neat endings," he said. 

Surprisingly, Hosler has no sonality and its own interesting "Wilbur and Wendel," at Notre
One day he drew a guy that "Spelunker" may be gone at
formal art background. He be­history. Dame. Hosler describes this
looked like a cow. He realized Notre Dame, but not forgotten.
gan doodling as a child. He Jen is a character based both first strip here as "dismally
what a sexually confusing 
Fans should look to find theirwas extremely fascinated by di­in looks and actions on Hosler's mediocre."
super-power that would be for 
favorite characters phased
nosaurs in his youth. On a fam­friend, Christy Miller, from hisa man to get. He was amused slowly into "Cowboy," and per­
ily vacation in Wyoming as a undergraduate years at After tossing "Wilbur and
by the irony of a male with haps many years down the
child, Hosler's family stopped at DePauw University. Wendel," which Hosler was dis­
characteristics of a female 
road, Hosler's "Spelunker" will
a drug store and that is where Skip is the main character left satisfied with, "Spelunker" was
member of a species. Hosler be syndicated. 
he spotted dinosaurs on the over from Hosler's undergradu-born as a single panel cartoon.
began playing with the charac­
emiLy's new ~Engineering' result of Galesburg trip 
By ROB ADAMS Music Critic  "Galesburg is a really little town, kind of a college town,  slows it down .... but don't worry kids, it's only a few seconds  fake-spy movie ideal with all the women and guns and  modestly. McEachern's drum work is  
Neither the title of emiLy's new 16-song tape, "Engineering means i Like you," or its Ward Cleaver-appears-to-be-late-for­work cover illustration give any indication of the complete raw­ness enclosed inside.  but with a really cool radio sta­tion. They have this punk rock thing going and it's exciting," said Cannon. Three of the sixteen songs appear on emiLy's first tape, two of them appear on the seven-inch, which leaves eleven  before another eruption occurs. intrigue," said Cannon. ''I'm singing through this lit-During "Trinity," a song writ-tie guitar amp," said Cannon, ten by Larmoyeux, Cannon's commenting on why the record-guitar riffs rise and fall mightily ing sounds.---------------------, like some so raw. It's sort of no use fool­s o u n d ing around avalanche  nothing short of amazing on "Refrigerate," a song which, for some strange reason, makes me think it must be the cover star's favorite on the tape. "It's about this whole waif­look thing," said Cannon, "the idea which causes anorexia to  
Without attempting to sound too macabre, the new tape is something like the equivalent of music being skinned alive. When I talked to Joe Cannon, the self-proclaimed "annoying white upper class radical" of the band, about the new tape, he told me about a particular band that emiLy saw when at Knox College, where the new tape was recorded. This band was called  new original emiLy tunes for "Engineering means i Like you." "These are songs that we've been playing. All the new songs were written during this school year. There were about three or four songs that we played at the session that didn't end up on the tape because we didn't like how they came out. For example, "Beef" and "Tinkertoy" are two of our fa­ with Dolby, Surround S o u n d , equalizers, or Super Bass, the sound is dense-"no layers exist here, only one mas­sive, bril­liant noise  w h i c h tumbles and then reb u i Ids itself and then tum­bles down again. In the mean­time, how­ever, Lar­moyeux's bass keeps  be a fashion statement, where people are forced into thinking that they have to look a certain way to be attractive." A driving force kicks "Hive" out as the first new song on the second ("other") side. Cannon's vocals are a bit calmer and gentler, but still not tame by any means. A bridge again gives the listener a short rest as Cannon sings only with Lar­moyeux's bass for support, fol­ 
Hayfever, and Cannon marvels at how completely hardcore they were; it's hard to imagine a band that would cause any emiLy member to be taken aback about that, especially after "Engineering means i Like you." "They really really really liked our seven-inch," says Cannon about how emiLy came to play a gig in the WVKC stu­dio at Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois. The band went down to play on April 9, 1994 and enjoyed the session so much they decided to make a tape out of it.  vorites, but we didn't like how they came out at WVKC so they're not on the tape;" said Cannon. "City of Tomorrow... Today" literally explodes into the speakers as the tape's opener. Mike Larmoyeux's bass sets the tone early, low. And it stays low. Meanwhile, Doug McEachern pounds steadily at his drums. Cannon's screams are, for the most part, unintelligible throughout the song until a small bridge which envelops the intensity of the song and  w h i c h shoots out of the speakers as if connect­ed to an engine. " H e wants the sex/This is t h e trait/And gravity is such a dri­ving wonderful thing/This is the car/These are the fumes," screams Cannon on "Connery," a song about our consumption culture. "It's about that Connery- the song in check by playing it m i d -tempo, a job he often finds himself d o i n g : k e e p in g his bass at a mid-tempo rate just to keep McEachern and Cannon from playing faster and faster and faster and ... "'Trinity' is your basic alien­ation song," Cannon says of it  lowing an excellent sequence of drum squashing by McEachern. Sonically. "Engineering means i Like you," is by no means a breakthrough in music technology. It is, however, another deliciously painful post-punk, indie, hardcore (labels mean nothing) release by Notre Dame's grandfathers of angst, emiLy. Cannon is graduating in May and emiLy will be on hiatus for the summer, but just when you thought it was safe to go out­side ... they will be back again next semester.  

Wednesday, April27, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

COUPON NECESSARY Designer Alternative Fragrances 
IUY......,_._ 
DRAKKAR • POISON • OBSESSION • ETERNITY PASSION •GIORGIO • LIZ CUIBORNE & MORE! 
~ INCREDIBLE 1!!!11111LJ SAVINGS!! fl:ll 

COLOR TVS....•.•...............................~ ...•...IIIIIIIIIIIII$99 VIDEO CASSETTE PLAYERS..............................$99 CAMCORDERS.........•..:..................................... $399 CORDLESS PHONE............................................. $29 ~ BLANK T-120 VIDEOTAPE.....................................99¢~ ANSWERING MACHINE.......................................$19 SONY. 
GD

CD PLAYER......•..•.........•..•........•.......................... $69 p KICKER BOXES..........................................................$39 0 I XEROX FAX MACHINE......................................$299 N E 
E 

XEROX COPY MACHINE...................................$299 R" APPLIANCES.............................SUPER DISCOUNTS 
XEROX • SHERWOOD • JVC ~ 'fl 
MAGNAVOX• HITACHI•RCA 

EMERSON & MUCH MORE!!!!! llOFF 
PYLE WOOFERS

i Lots of Sound Atfiic:e II BUY ONE GET ONE 
Your Car and Home Audio Specialists FREE 
SPA LIQUIDATION 
6-8 PERSON SPA & GAZEBO W!TV, STEREO, SURROUND, STEP, SKYLIGHT, PALM TREES 
$5995 SOFTSI~~~ $199; 2PER~~~ $219; 
~C!C!bOk 

NEW AND USED CARTRIDGES BUY • SELL • TRADE GENESIS • SUPER NES • NINTENDO • GAMEBOY 
~CfJ&!JiJrEL.P 
c!JCfJCEBfu~ 
' 11'000 LEATHER JACKETS 




rn~'
CYCLE JACKETS 
$69 
BOOTS & CLOTHES 
25-75% OFF 
HATS 
20-40%0FF 
WESTERN CLOTHES $1995 
(SHIRTS & PANTS) FROM 
DINGO • DURANGO • JOSTENS ABILENE • WRANGLER BOOTS 
1000s OF TOOLS 10700/oOFF 
40 PC SOCKET SET..........•............ $3.99 7 PC AUTO BODY KIT....•.••..••........ $9.99 14 PC WRENCH SET.................•.. $19.99 4" BENCH VISE..........................•$19.99 6" BENCH GRINDER.....•......•..•.....$29.99 6" D.A. SANDER ......................•..$19.99 PNEUMATIC CUTTOFF TOOL. •....... $19.99 3/8 AIR RATCHET........................$19.99 69 PC HOME & AUTO KIT...............$14.99 6 x 8 TARPS.........•...•........••.•......$1.99 
RAWLINGS BASEBALL$8 
GLOVES 

FROM 
BASKETBALLS, SOCCERBALLS, j
VOLLEYBALLS$ 
(" 

'AOM 
TIRES 155/BOR13 

~~14!?.._
NO DEALERS 

BRIDGESTONE • LEMANS FIRESTONE • TRIUMPH TROPHY & MUCH MORE! 
' ' 
' 
' ' 

\ ,' NITRO $1S
\ ,' GOLF 

• BALLS /2 DOZEN 
GOLF 

SHIRTS $999 JUMBO TITANIUM $~2099
ORIVERW/ J7 

SAFARI GRAPHITE SHAFT STRAW HATS $999 ETONIC MEN'S $2099 
GOLF SHOES J7 

PUTTERS, GOLF ~ 
SETS & MUCH MORE~ 
MOVIES 
a. MUSIC 
1,000s of CASSETIES 10,000s COs 
$299 
'1"to'j" .. 
1,ODDs of MOVIES 
$j99 
CASSEITE$7.99 CD $11.99 

SATELLITE SYSTEJ.WS 
SATELLITE 
$895
SYSTEMS FROM 
46" BIG SCREEN TV 
3D" TV 

&&:iJI:::/iJ/JVO[i\j]@ 
TENTS • SLEEPING BAGS CAMPING ACCESSORIES 
SLEEPING 2 -Pecg2~ $1999 
BAGS 

50% off ~frJk~ $24: 
HOUSES J 
a· x10· $.' ~8
FAMILY ~ 
CABIN 
Academy Broadway • Wentzel Wbite Stag • Wilderness Trails 

:J~C:l~~~ f~':r::';; &'\T.~~~~'kfo'!.'::!';;~ 
AD BV SUN GRAPHICS • P1crl.JRES N6T NECESSARIL V RePRESENTATIONAL• ADMISSION $2.00 ADUL -fs • FREE UNDER 12 • FREE OVER 60 • All SALES FINAL SUBJECT TO STATE & LOCAL LAWS • EACH STORE RESPONSIBLE FOR OWN MERCHANDISE • C COPYRIGHT SUPER SALES OF AMERICA. INC 1994 
·-----·--------------------------------------------------------·~ 
The Observer • ETC. Wednesday, April27, 1994 
The Freddy Jones Band 'comes home' to Senior Bar 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 

For The Freddy Jones Band, a return to South Bend for a May 7 show at the Senior Bar will be a sort of homecoming. 
Started in 1989 by Holy Cross College students Wayne Healy (vocals, guitars} and Marty Lloyd (vocals, acoustic guitar} as a hobby, the group has start­ed making waves on the nation-Blues Traveler, and the Allman Brothers with their Southern­Fried funk, blues, and folk in­terpretations of music. 
"Some people have called our discs mellow," said Healy, "but we're not mellow live; we rage-this band cooks live." 
Only 2,000 copies were made of their debut, self-titled CD in 1992, but they ordered a sec­ond pressing when the opening track, "In a Daydream" began 

al music scene. 

Although the group is trying to stray away from the college scene, and looking instead toward opening slots on major tours, Notre Dame was lucky enough to book them, accord­ing to senior organizer Julie Schaarsmith. 
The group only had two dates open when they were called to do the show, according to senior, Julie Schaarsmith who helped arrange it. 
"We had wanted to book them for May 12, the Thursday before graduation, but they were only available the week before, so we got them as late as we could," said Schaarsmith. 
After a slot on some of the 1993 Horizons of Rock Developing Everywhere (H.O.R.D.E.) Festival dates, The Freddy Jones Band began to establish a national fol­to gain significant air play in Chicago. 
As a result, Chicago-area record outlets began selling the disc and The Freddy Jones Band's popularity has been steadily growing since. 
In 1993, the band signed on with Capricorn Records, a divi­sion of Warner Brothers, and released Waiting For the Night, a release which included 11 new songs and "In a Daydream," all written by The Freddy Jones Band. 
The CD is impressive, and serves to carve The Band a sound of their own. 
"In a Daydream" is still the best song The Band has ever recorded. Its dreamy pop is unlike anything else they've Land" back in 1992. 
The vocal stylings are excel­lent and the pattern-less lyrics prove to be enjoyable as well. 
"One world within/One heart is beating still today/An open road/One love can carry you away," goes the first chorus in the reggae-flavored "One World." 
The song features an excel­lent guest performance on organ by Reese Wynans. 
Gruff vocals and 
wah-wah pedaled riffs give a psychedel­ic edge to "The Other Side," an allusion to the traditional "crossing the tracks" to find a better life. 
Lloyd's acoustic guitar strumming provides an excellent background. 
At the bridge, a vocal solo is a fabu­lous move; when the song swings back into action, everything falls easily back into place. Wynans again provides solid back­up with the organ. 
A mellow talc describing a painfully long ride is told on "Night To Day" as Bonaccorsi's bass drops low (almost to the level of Bootsy Collins' "space bass") and the background vocals promote the mood of the song. 
The Freddy Jones 
Band's show is defi­nitely one that should not be missed. It is expected to sell 
' some people have called our discs mellow. But we're not mellow live; we rage­this band cooks live.' 
Wayne Healy, The Freddy Jones Band 
out and sell out quickly at that. For a band that sounds that good on disc and is supposed to 


back from California, they
signed him on to play gui-Made up of several Holy Cross College graduates, the Freddy Jones Band tars and sing. will perform at the Senior Bar on May 7. 
Named after a character from an obscure underground done. be even better live, seeing The comic strip, The Freddy Jones Its hook has the same kind of Freddy Jones Band at the Band have drawn comparisons catchy feel that attracted the Senior Bar should be well­to Little Feat, The BoDeans, U.S. to Dada with "Dizz Knee worth the cash. 
Wednesday, April27, 1994 The Observer ·150 YEAQ0 OF 0AlNT MAQY'0 page 3 
A look back 
at the people, places and policies of Saint Mary's College 
Compiled by Jennifer Habrych the basement of Washington Hall at Notre Dame. The Saint Mary's tennis team 
A letter written in 1976 by captured its 3rd consecutive President John Duggan state NAJA tournament title in addressed to the President of 1"984. Saint Mary's College in its ••• 233nd year (2076) was placed in the Century Center's Time From 1978 until the mid-Capsule. 1980s, the College held a 
••• women's opportunity week. The traditional event was 
Linda Batista, '83, was the inspired by a group of seniors first female drum major and who thought that Saint Mary's Laura Holland, '84, was the needed a week dedicated to first woman president of the and in celebration of women four University of Notre Dame and their lives. bands. The week included plays,
••• speeches, movies and a ·women's fair to "involve each 
The Entrepreneurship for Saint Mary's women in seeking Women course was introduced her opportunities as a women." at Saint Mary's in the first ••• semester of the 1988-89 acade­mic year. In 1980 the College renovated 
This course was the first and illuminated Le Mans undergraduate course in enter­Tower. The tower was illumi­preneurship specifically direct­nated so that it could become ed toward women offered by an the recognizable symbol of the American college. College. 
A book brigade passes books from the Alumnae Centennial Library (now Haggar College Center) to the new Cushwa-Leighton Library. The brigade was a symbolic recreation of the one formed by the Sisters of the Holy Cross to move all the books from the library in Queen's Court of Le Mans Hall to the Alumnae 
On April 20, 1985, the Bruno Students from Saint Agnes
Centennial Library. Most of the books were moved into the Cushwa-Leighton Library by a moving van.
Schlesinger Endowed Chair for College in Japan visited the the Humanities, the first College in 1991. 
••• 1984 . Before the construction of the 
endowed chair given by the Saint Agnes was founded by
Sophomores moved into A Dance Studio was opened studio dance classes were con­
College was announced at the Ellen Eddy, Saint Mary's class
Regina Hall which was former­in the basement of Regina Hall ducted on the stage of
Madeleva Society Dinner. of 1860. 
ly reserved for all freshmen in in October 1994. O'Laughlin Auditorium or in 
Saint Mary's awarded for excellence in education 
By ANNE DELANEY university, only iii a liberal arts setting. for faculty and faculty and student News Writer The rank is based on a school's total designed research. ~ f' . score when measured in five attribute Since 1980, Saint Mary's faculty have 
"Saint Mary's ...what is it?," is a ques­areas: student selectivity, reputation for received 17 endoWlllents from the Lilly tion with many potential replies. Often academic excellence, faculty quality, Faculty Open Fellowship. The presti­confused with other schools by the same resources and student retention. The gious award includes a stipend of up to names or churches, Saint Mary's score of student retention, for instance $40,000 and a year of study and reflec­College, Notre Dame stand alone. is determined by the school's ability to tion supported by the grant. Saint 
There are many things that create graduate its incoming freshman. Saint Mary's ranks first among Indiana reputation and acclaim for a school, and Mary's has always placed first and sec­schools, including Indiana University for the past several years Saint Mary's ond place in student retention. In 1992 and Notre Dame for the number of fac­has received national recognition for its and 1993, the College ranked 1st and ulty grants received from the Lilly arrays of achievement. All of these con­3rd, respectively for faculty resources. Fellowship. tribute to a strong central core which is U.S. News offers significant results for Similarly, the Lilly Endowment sum­a successful Catholic women's college. the reputation and standing of Saint mer stipends, facilitate the development 
In 1962, Saint Mary's was considered Mary's, but it takes more than a statisti­of new courses over the summer break. among the top women's colleges. There cal analysis to explain the depth of the Eighteen faculty members in the past 10 were no formal reports or consumer College. The heralding of Saint Mary's years have won these stipends of guides on best buys or outstanding col­by its alumnae all over the country, the $5,000. Up to two awards are given to a leges, but word-of-mouth and other activities and achievement of the faculty schools and frequently Saint Mary's publications were the key, and remain and the promotion and developments of receives both. so. students all contribute to its success. "These successes show an intense 
-
Now U.S. News and World Report pub­interest in teaching as well as scholar­lishes an annual survey of America's There is success on the national level, ship and personal achievement," said best colleges, subdivided by region and but more importantly there is the inter­Associate Dean of Faculty Patrick White voted on by college and university presi­nal success as well. It is the dedication, who has attained these grants for Saint dents and deans. the striving for the extra mile and the Mary's.. "It's who your see yourself 
Since 1986, Saint Mary's has been in voices of faculty and students that ranks 1986 and has been listed in the top 15 ever connected to .. .it seems funny to quanti­the top 15 colleges in the Midwest Saint Mary's at the top. since. U.S. News began the survey of col­fy accomplishment, but the bigger pic­
lege and university presidents and deans in
regional category and for the past seven There are faculty publications and ture emerges from it." 
1983.

years it has been in the top 10. Since involvement in national committees, as 1990 it has been in the top four includ­well as, recognition of the College's fac­for the many grants and awards avail­ndividual awards, such as the ones ing a 2nd place ranking behind Illinois ulty as experts in the areas of fostering able to colleges and universities. In given by the National Endowment of Wesleyan in 1992. and promoting women's interest in non­1990, the College was asked to apply for Humanities and the National Science 
The category Saint Mary's is judged in tradition areas. These dimensions of the Knight Foundation program, Foundation, speak of the multi-faceted consists of approximately 560 schools in academic life contribute to both institu­Excellence in Undergraduate Education. character of Saint Mary's as well. this category, which award more than tional and personal success and a strong Only 20 institutions were asked to apply, · Leadership roles, the voices of stu­
half of their bachelor's degrees in two or interest on the part of the faculty to and Saint Mary's was one of 10 that dents and alumnae and faculty more occupational or professional disci­expand both. were funded. The grant was used to resources all carry and maintain Saint plines. They often provide the same In addition, Saint Mary's has been develop the SISTAR mentoring program Mary's College at the top. professional programs offered at a large tremendously successful as a recipient 



1986-William Hickey 1992-College begins new inaugurated as ninth president long-range planning process 
1994 


I985-Saint Mary's announced its 1987-Dedication of 1992-US. News & World Report ranked Saint Mary's as the No. 2 1994-Saint Mary's celebrates its first first endowed chair, the Bruno renovated Science Hall institution among 131 midwestern colleges and universities Sesquicentennial Sclesinger Endowed Chair for the Humanities 

---~ ----~-~-·--~~ ---~-----­
--~-~ 
page 4 The Observer • 150 YEAQ~ Of ~AINT MAQY'~ Wednesday, April27, 1994 
LRPC sets future goals for Saint Mary's 
By lAURA FERGUSON 2000 stated in the document Saint Mary's News Editor "Honoring Tradition, Pioneering Change" include: 
To allow Saint Mary's to maintain its dedication to quali­• Reaffirming commitment to ty catholic women's education the Saint Mary's mission. as it moves into the 21st centu­• Fostering Catholic identity 
ry, the College's Long Range and commitment to women's Planning Committee (LRPC) education. created a document outlining • Recruiting a more diverse the goals for the future. student body in ethnic heritage 
and economic status and a 
The purpose of this docu­revised financial aid program ment. "Honoring Tradition, to recruit and retain these stu­Pioneering Change," was to dents. develop a plan to carry Saint • Increasing student enroll­Mary's into the next century ment while maintaining the and to provide direction to fac­current number of faculty. ulty, administration. staff and • Reducing graduationstudents. requirements for students to 
It also aimed to accomplish 120 hours when feasible in the the goals of the College, as curriculum. articulated in the mission state­• Cultivating the College's tra­ment, in these times of drastic dition in the cultural arts. 
changes in higher education, • Integrating student life with according to LRPC Chairperson academic programs. Donald Horning. • Providing support for off­
The initial push for this long address in relationship with Horning.
"We merely need to say again campus students. 
range planning document Saint Mary's mission statement. However. "Honoring
that what we do here is of sin­• Preparing proposals for
began in the fall of 1991 by Tradition, Pioneering Change" 
gular importance to women's public service projects to
College President William "The planning effort was an was not the first long range
education," said Horning. "We enable current students and
Hickey. Since then, five primary all college effort," Horning said. plan in recent Saint Mary's his­
must do it well and must do it graduates to repay student
task forces have examined and "The process was comprehen­tory.
better." loans.
revised the proposal, including: sive and inclusive. Everyone • Improving classrooms, fac­
Academic Affairs, Student had an opportunity to express After the College decided not
Last October, "Honoring ulty offices and administrative
Affairs, College Relations, concerns and address the to merge with Notre Dame in
Tradition, Pioneering Change" office space. 
Fiscal Affairs and important issues." the 70s there was a major plan­
was submitted to the Board of • Undertaking a technology
Administrative Affairs. ning effort under the direction
Regents for approval. however program to meet the needs of
This was a good time to of Saint Mary's President
the proposal was re-submitted students, faculty and staff. 
Each of these ·task forces examine the future of the Edward Henry. 
in April because the Board of • Developing a master cam­
were further broken down into College partly because of the "This planning effort set the
Regents requested that priori­pus plan to determine future
study groups consisting of fac­sesquicentennial and partly stage for the 70s and 80s and
ties and cost be included in the needs regarding construction of 
ulty, administrators, secretaries because of changes in higher was comparable to the LRPC,
plan. They also wanted to new buildings and modification
and support staff, and hourly education such as technological but only with a different man­
devote more attention to the of old ones.
staff members of the College. advancements and demograph­date," Horning said. 
Student Affairs -section of the • Increasing endowment to
Each study group was then ic changes of people attending 
proposal. support the operating budget. 
given a specific charge to small colleges, according to Some of the goals for the year 
Saint Mary's College looks to the future while celebrating the past 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH protected covenants which were not of Catholic women's college is essential. Saint Mary's Editor Emerita open for discussion or change. "The Catholic nature of the College is While the identity of the College is the most immediate philosophical 
T
he year is 2044. The event is secure, how the stude.nt body, curricu­aspect we are working on," Feigl said. the bicentennial celebration of lum and faculty will look remains a "The Church is such a changing and Saint Mary's College. Students question. varying phenomenon that we need to 
-
are looking back at old photos from the As the U.S. becomes increasingly mul­constantly reassess this." 1994 sesquicentennial celebration and ticultural, how Saint Mary's will adjust While service is a very important laughing at the clothes the students to this change is one of the areas under aspect of a Catholic college, Feigl said wore and the ways they wore their hair. constant discussion recently. that it should not be the only marker. The scenes of the photos looking strik­The College has set its sights on "I think it (service) is an important ingly the same, but the people in them increasing the number multicultural part of a Catholic education and it is the are members of the days past. They students. but the faculty and the cur­moral obligation to address the needs of wonder what it was like to attend Saint riculum will have to adjust. according to those who are unfortunate, but the 
Mary's back at the turn of the century. Vice President and Dean of Faculty number of students serving is an impor­
Saint Mary's will inevitably change in Dorothy Feigl. tant marker, but not the only marker of the future, but what the College will "There is going to be a change in the what it means to be a Catholic college," look like 50 years from now remains a body of people to be educated in the Feigl said. , mystery to most. next 30 years," Feigl said. "We will be To define a college as Catholic, Feigl ; 
Speculation abounds, but as the educating lots of groups of women we said that in the future the College must College celebrates its past accomplish­haven't educated before. We are good teach its students to explore their value ments, it to must simultaneously plan at educating women, but how do we base. for what the future may hold. maintain this good quality for the other 
Through long-range planning reports, groups of women we will need to edu­"Catholic colleges need to be a place committees and an historic agreement cate? It's a difficult question to to explore and develop a full idea of to change the governance structure of address." life," she said. "We need to educate and the College, administration, faculty, staff threat the whole person as important and students have attempted to define Building on the strengths that and that is what we do here." what they would like Saint Mary's to currently exist in the College Remaining a residential college where look. structure and adapting them to the student's academic, social, home 
One thing that they have not brought a more diverse population is something and spiritual life are a whole is some­The Observer/Cynthia Exconde into question is the identity of the that Saint Mary's is capable of if it con­thing that she says the College must 
"Is there a place for this school? Yeah. 
College as an institution committed to tinues to examine the question and continue to foster. 
Are we good at what we do? Yeah. Is itthe liberal arts, one committed to the readjust its solutions, according to FeigL Feigl said that the strength of a Saint going to be different? Yeah. Is it going education of women and one defmed by "We need to make Saint Mary's a mul­Mary's education will continue to be to be the same? Yeah, in'parts." Feigl the mission of the Catholic church. ticultural school, not just a school where providing a liberal arts education that said in summary.
"The identity of this institution is multicultural students feel welcome," will prepare them to step in and meet 

secure." College President William Feigl said. "We need to do this through society's needs. Hickey said in a story in the "Michiana the atmosphere and the courses, the "The core curriculum has stood the Executive Journal." students need to see reflections of test of time," she said. 
"In fact, Saint Mary's strong sense of themselves." Higher education must also examine identity explains our success. We've While the College seems to have a the influence that television has played always known what we are and what strong sense of what it means to be a on the current and future student body. we want to be," he continued. women's college, it has engaged itself in "Reading is not viewed as important 
The College-wide long range planning serious discussions of what it means to anymore," Feigl said. "The visual discussion centered around affirming be a Catholic college, according to FeigL media has impacted the society. We the mission statement and exploring A short time ago being a Catholic really have to address this, because the new ways to fulfill this mission. The institution meant being run by a reli­whole point is that we want to commu­change in governance in which Saint gious order, but as the number of voca­nicate." Mary's was incorporated separately tions to orders and the prescence of While Saint Mary's remains commit­from the Sisters of the Holy Cross called Sisters on the Saint Mary's campus has ted to the future, uncertainty prolifer­the elements of Saint Mary's identity decreased redefining the Catholic part ates the discussions about it. 
Editor's Note: 
This section is the sixth ofsix special sections commemorating Saint Mary's College and its 150-year tradition. 
Special thanks are given to Sister Rosaleen Dunleavy and Sister Monica Wagner of Colkge Archives. 
EDITOR: Jennifer Habrych 
PRODUCTION: Lynn Bauwens 
GRAPHICS: Brenilan Regan 
Wednesday, April27, 1994 The Observer • ETC. page 19 
Seniors commit to service projects 
By JENNIFER GUERIN Accent Writer 
Motivated by curiosity, jus­tice, faith, and innumerable personal reasons, hundreds of Notre Dame seniors will find themselves on a remarkably non-traditional path after com­mencement exercises this May. 
Having spent four years deci­phering their voices through classes and campus activities, approximately ten percent of the graduating class will com­mit to service programs in com­munities around the United States and the world. 
For some, it will be a sacri­fice; for others, a long-awaited luxury. With different experi­ences behind them and radi­cally different visions of the fu­ture, they will spend months­some of them years-doing vol­unteer work in a variety of fields. 
Volunteer programs open to seniors number in the hun­dreds, offering graduates a chance to pursue interests they have not found time to develop at Notre Dame. For some, such work-ranging from teaching to social service to physical labor in impoverished communities­is an extension of work they have already made a part of their life on campus. 
Julie Vlaming, a Program of Liberal Studies and Philosophy major from Orland Park, Illi­nois, will be participating in a domestic service program in Portland, Oregon, known as Holy Cross Associates (HCA). Founded by the Holy Cross or­der 17 years ago, HCA draws many of its volunteers from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
Vlaming chose to apply for 
HCA as a continuation and ex­
ploration of the lessons she has 
learned during her time at 
Notre Dame. Feeling a subtle 
but real lack of experience and 
personal relationships in her 
campus-related service activi­
ties, she looks forward to being 
able to dedicate her time to 
those she will be serving and living with in community. "Notre Dame stresses helping community. but you can only do so much when you're still a full time student," she insists. 
Unsure of her post-associate year plans, Vlaming is looking forward to using her HCA expe­rience as a "year of discern­ment." Although she has en­countered from both friends and family the characterization of service as "taking the year off," she has found that in talk­ing to them, they have begun to understand her goals and her motivation. 
Vlaming was motivated by a desire to learn about herself, friendships with people who had done similar work, and a need to expand her own expe­rience of relationships and suf­fering in communities. "It seems like so often, our society tends to build walls and divi­sions," Vlaming explained. "You can't be needy, because it's a sign of weakness. I think we do need each other. There's a lot to be learned from open­ing ourselves up to people." 
She noted the richness avail­
able in service relationships 
that has eluded her in more 
comfortable or academic envi­
ronments. "When you're al­
ways surrounded by the famil­
iar, sometimes you miss 
things," she remarked. 
For Vlaming, one of the most appealing qualitites of HCA was the sense of community em­phasized by the program. Al­though anxious about her work, she anticipates that the others in her house will be challenged, too, and that in sharing that anxiety, they will all be strengthened. 
Chris Goodwin and Brett 
Bauer, unlike Vlaming, have 
chosen to seek service experi­
ence abroad after graduation. 
Goodwin, a senior Philosophy 
major, has decided to venture 
outside of the Notre Dame com­
munity and join a program 
known as Jesuit Volunteers In­
ternational. With JVI, he will work as a teacher of Philosophy at St. John's College in Belize City, Belize, in Central America. 
In this small, diverse country south of Guatemala, Goodwin will be living with other JVI vol­unteers who have made a com­mitment to exploring the pro­gram's four components: keep­ing faith, living simply, doing justice, and building communi­ty. 
He looks at next year as an "appealing challenge," an ex­perience of forging relation­ships with new people and ad­justing to a different culture. "It's a real challenge to go 
'you can't be needy, 
because it's a sign of weakness. I think we do need each other. There's a lot to be learned from opening ourselves up to people. When you're surrounded by the familiar some­times you miss things.' 
Julie Vlaming, senior 
somewhere and try to forge connections with people," said Goodwin, who defines service in terms of sharing and ex­pressing care for others. "It was important for me to do that on an internal level," he con­tinued, "and then to take that out into the community." 
For many volunteers, a com­
mitment to service means a 
commitment to not only a dif­
ferent lifestyle or atmosphere, 
but also an occupation with 
which they are unfamiliar. 
Lacking extensive experience in 
the fields they enter, they face 
the dual challenge of adjusting 
to foreign surroundings in both 
their personal and professional 
lives. 
Goodwin, for example, ex­pressed some hesitations about teaching. "It seems that some­times you can meet more basic needs than that," he said. Goodwin is excited about his work, however, and hopes to serve his students by empower­ing them through education, helping them find "their voice" in society. 

Vlaming, too, expressed reservations about her work with HCA. "Although I'm still scared of it in one sense, I'm also excited by it," said Vlam­ing, referring to her placement in a hospice center called Hopewell House in Portland. The vacillation between excite­ment and anxiety is hardly un­usual for students embarking on similar programs. 
Goodwin was considering a variety of options for next year, and only recently decided on JVI. "It was one of the most difficult decisions I've made," he said, primarily because it in­volved a commitment to en­tirely different lifestyle than he has been used to at Notre Dame. 
Brett Bauer. a marketing ma­jor, will be moving to Kyoto, Japan, establishing residency somewhere other than his hometown of South Bend for the first time in his 22 years. Bauer, who spent time in Japan last summer studying with a program through UCLA, has been taking Japanese for two and a half years at Notre Dame. He looks forward to teaching English in a school under the guidance of a program known as the Good Shepherd Move­ment. 
Bauer explained that English 
is a mandatory course for 
Japanese students through high 
school. Father Graham 
McDonnell, the director of the 
Good Shepherd program, runs 
a Catholic radio station in Kyoto 
that raises money by teaching 
English in local schools. When 
Bauer departs for Japan on 
July 8, he will join 10 other stu­
dents on the program who will 
work a total of 25 hours (over 
six days) per week and receive ·a monthly stipend to cover the 
cost of living. 
Bauer, whose mother is 
Japanese, considers his experi­
ence with Good Shepherd a 
rare opportunity to learn. "It's 
part of me," he said, "it's half 
of my heritage. My parents 
have really left it up to me to 
discover what Japan is all 
about." 
The experience of volunteer­
ing abroad will be particularly 
enriching, Bauer anticipates, as 
he both gives to other people 
and learns about a foreign cul­
ture in the process. His sched­
ule will allow him to develop his 
interest in the Japanese cul­
ture, particularly the martial 
art of Aikido. Immersing him­
self in some of the traditional 
rituals and customs of the 
country before the end of his 
time there, Bauer plans to ren­
der his experience as enriching 
as possible. 
In addition to his family her­
itage, Bauer's relationship with 
a close friend and mentor at 
Notre Dame also strongly influ­
enced his decision to serve 
abroad. Like many students, 
Bauer witnessed his friend's 
good experience in a post-grad­
uate service project, and was 
encouraged to embark on a 
similar journey. "He was such 
a big influence in my life, and if 
I could be there like that for 
someone else, I would just 
thank God that I could do that," 
Bauer remarked. 
The Center for Social Con­cerns will be sponsoring a send­offceremony for all seniors who have committed to or are con­sidering service work after graduation. There is no fee for admission. The send-off, which will include a slide show, short program. and reception, will take place on Saturday, May 14, at 10 a.m. Seniors who would like to attend should stop by the Center for Social Concerns before senior week to sign up. The Center will send out invitations to parents and families. 
Cedar Point amusement park to be a 'high point' of Senior Week 
By COLLEEN MOORE the past has encouraged plans to contin-Accent Writer ue this year. 
Long after the ups and downs of the There will be six buses leaving from final semester are "'lli!lfilj~iliilliiiilllllii!~iiii~a!t~7!.1iaiii.miiii.liioijn fM~~ay 9, making room 
be heading for 1 1 close to 300 stu­much more enjoy-to participate. able roller coaster rides. The cost for the 
trip is $25 per stu­

On Monday May r..t"i"::Mrdlo.. 
nt and sign-ups

9, members of the IR:~~~~J-~.4~
senior class will l begin at 10 travel to Cedar .m. on Thursday, Point Amusement pril 28, at the Park in Sandusky, aFortune Ohio. Desk. 
Julie Schaarsmith, Seniors can look of the Office of rward to the Student Activities, is excitement of sever­
coordinating the al of the park's trip. famed rides. 
"It isn't a Among the high­idea," lights at Cedar Point Schaarsmith. "The are the Demon trip has been a tra­Drop, the Magnum, dition for the last the Gemini, the several years." wooden Meanstreak, 
and several water 

"I hear it should rides. This season, 
be a pretty fun trip ~~=:==~======~~~~the park will also
for everyone. People 1 feature a new in the past said they enjoyed it a so Rafter. we're really looking forward to a good The ride has been advertised as a ride time," said Dan Connally, Senior Class similar to the Batman roller coaster at President. Six Flags Great America with twice as 
The positive response to the trip in many twists and turns. 

page 20 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 27, 1994 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day &om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Raffle to benefit Clothe-A-Child. Win Litho signed by all NO Heisman or Football signed by all NO Heis. or 2 94TIX ND/BYU or 2 94TIX & trip to ND/NoWest Limited# tickets-Drawing July 15 Send $10, name,address,phone to Christ Child Society, 16122 Baywood Ln., Granger, IN 46530 
WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB 
TRUCK TO D.C. PICK-UP 
THURSDAY MAY 5 AND 
FRIDAY, MAY6 FROM 12T05 
STEPAN AND LYONS B-BALL 
COURTS. QUESTIONS CALL 
ROB X1624 
-*GOLFERS*** 
KEENAN GOLF SCRAM­BLE 
Shotgun start Fri. April 29th at 9am, $8.50 per player, Prizes for 1st, 2nd, 3rd, Longest Drive,& Closest-to-Pin. CALL x3342 or x3273 
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S 
everyday but sunday until 5:30pm 
233-2342 NO ave & Howard 
Attention graduating seniors whose parent and grandparent are Notre Dame alums: The Notre Dame Publications office needs to take photos of multigenerational alum family members during Commencement weekend. The photos are to be used in an upcom­ing University publication. Please call Marilyn or Paul at 631-5337. 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST-my precious gold loop ear­ring somewhere between Lewis & Cushing, or Cushing & 02, or 02 & Lewis on Sat nite (4/16). SENTI­MENTAL VALUE--PLEASE RETURN ASAP. x3766. --thanks 
CASH REWARD! 
'92 alum looking to recover "losr 
cellular phona missing from car 
parlted behind Grace Hall late Sat. 
night. Call 291-3018 ask for Roy 
LOST: 
Green Columbia Jacket (outer 
shell) prob in SOH. Please help! 
call Brian at x 1130 
LOST!! 
Gold chain with celtic cross by 
Stepan Courts week of 4/11. Call 
Rob at 4-2159. 
GE stereo found. Call 273-1932 
Did you accidentally take a 
maroon-red Eddie Bauer Windfoil 
jacket on Thursday night between 
12 and 1 :30 am? If so, please 
return it to me. 
Please call Mike at 4-1139. 
No questions asked. 
LOST-Darlt green, suede back­pack in front of Pangborn on Sat. (23). It contains important notes for finals. Please call Janna at x2349 if found. No questions asked!!! 
MISSING: A Cotton Bowl jacket with three keys and IDs. It was last seen on Sun. the 24th at 12 noon in PE's 24 hr. lounge. If you know of its whereabouts please contact Jeanne at x3465 or Michelle at x4376. 
Lost: Ashley Scott black dress coat 
from Grace formal at Union Station on 4/08. I have the wrong one, so please check yours. Liz x1316 
Lost-a green Eddie-Bower wind­breaker jacket at Stepan during bookstore-call Mike 233-2387 
LOST: Gold Class Ring. JFK High School. Blue Stone. "Suzanne Kathryn" inscribed on inside. Please call x4638. 
Hey! I haven't forgotten about the black leather jacket you stole at the Pangborn SYR! Please give it back-no questions asked. Call Sean at4-1184. 

LOST: ONE LAME DUCK 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF WHO 
ANSWERS TO THE NAME OF 
DAVID. IF FOUND, PLEASE 
RETURN TO THE OBSERVER. 
Lost: 
Watch. 
Brown corded leather band. 
Compass housing. 

If found call 4-3233 and ask for 
Dav. 
LOST: LADY'S BLACK LEATHER 
PURSE WITH GOLD TRIM ON 
SATURDAY NIGHT AT WASHING­
TON HALL 
REWARD. 
CALL 631-6557. 
lost -Tl81 Calculator 
lost in Fitzpatrick on Monday 
night. If found , please call 
Vince at x1871. Reward. 
Lost-Tl81 Calculator on Monday 
night in Fitzpatrick. If found, please 
call Vince at x1871. 
LOST: SMALL BLACK OLYMPUS 
CAMERA AT PIGTOSTAL ON 
4123. PLEASE BE KIND & 
RETURN IT. NO QUESTIONS 
ASKED. CALL ANNE 284-5212. 
WHERE, OH WHERE IS DAVID 
KINNEY? IF FOUND, PLEASE 
RETURN TO THE OBSERVER. 
L WANTED 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on cruise ships or land-tour companies. World travel. Summer & full-time employment available. No exp necessary. For info call 1-206-634..0468 ext. C5584 
need graduation tickets bad 
call Harry 233-5130 
SUMMER/PERMANENT FULL 
TIME $300/WEEK. WORK FOR 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND CON­
SUMER RIGHTS. WK HAS 
1:30-10:30 M-F. FOR INTERVIEW 
CALL 232-7905 
On and off campus newspaper car­riers, branch managers, sales per­sonnel needed for fall 94 semester. Contact City News Service Inc., 232-3205 or 288-9361 for informa­tion or application. 
Off-campus non-seniors! I'm in need of place for friends graduation weekend and will sublease. Does lease require you to pay entire month of May? If so, do you want to make some quick cash$? Call Chad 4X1595. 
WANTED GRE REVIEW BOOKS 
FOR BIOLOGY: #42289 
I need a ride to Mn./ St Paul area after graduation. Will share gas, dri­ving, tolls. Call Me! Julie x4276 
GOING HOME TO KS? We have room in a U-Haul and will take your stuff for a SMALL fee. Call soon­X1592 or X4902 
Anyone need a ride to long 
Island/NYC area May 6-call Mike 
233-2387 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 ext A29. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Eam up to $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­0219 
COLLEGE STUDENTS 

SUMMER WORK Entry level position with an interna­tional corporation, Flexible sched­ule, Start PT or FT now or after finals. Starting at $9.25! Call287­0424 for more information. 
Want a CD-Boom Box, call Ashwin at 4-3440 
EXCITING SUMMER OPPORTU­NITY FOR SMCIND STUDENT. HELP FOR PROFESSIONAL FAM­ILY ON DIAMOND LAKE-JUNE 15-AUG. 15. APPROX. $1000/MO. 
234-1946. 
WANTED: POWER PUSH MOWER. 272-6194. 
I NEED 1 GRAD. TICKET! CALL MELISSA x4072 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF CAMPUS. 272..0615 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
COLLEGE PARK 
CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library -New appliances -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -Washer & Dryer units -Large closets -Covered parlting -Security System -large balconies ----Units now available­
$660 per month ..... Going Quickly!! 
*'*****'**CALL: 272-0691...,.*'****'**"' 
Are you staying for summer school? Do you need a place to live? We are subletting our 2 Bedroom gas apartment at Indian Springs!!! II is economical, and spacious!!! Call Robin (4-1337) or Jackie (4­1333) for more details! 
BULLA ROAD 3 BDRM. WALK TO CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW 272-6306 
1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. NEAR NO. STARTING AT $250. MO. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR RENT -ONE PERSON NEEDED, ALL UTILITIES PAID, VERY CLEAN! SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, APARTMENT HAS OWN ENTRANCE. 232-0355 
FOR LEASE 2 Bdrm 1 Bath House­Fum. Full bsmt & Garage -3 miles from campus in Riverparlt neighbor­hood. Call (616)756-9675 for info. 
Turtle Creek Townhouse available for summer. Call 273-5883 for more information. 
looking for student tenants Near NO-!:lean, furnished apart· ment houses: 755 South Bend Ave (1 blk west of Notre Dame Ave) 1 bdrm-240, effeciency-215; 607 E. Corby (3 blocks west of Notre Dame Ave) 2bdrm $330, 1-bdrm $260; 519 E. Corby-2bdrm $280+heat drive by first, call for appointment, deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 
NEED A ROOMMATE at Turtle Creek Apt-SUMMER-Call CHRIS X4085 
GRADUATE STUDENT 
Need a roof over your head for the summer? I have a room to rent. Less than 5 mins. from campus. Call Sandy at 272-6194. Nice & safe home & area. 
Subletting furnished 2-bedroom house near NO: June thru mid­August. $275 per month. 288-5149 or 634-6524, leave message 
•• SUMMER RENT •• Urgently need a sublettor. 1 mile from campus at Cahill condo. Available May-Aug. Only 200$/mo. Own bedroom/bath. Will have two roommates. Call Tony at 271-1400 
•• SUMMER RENT** Urgently need a sublettor. 1 mile from campus at Oahill condo. Available May-Aug. Only 200$/mo. Own bedroom/bath. Will have two roommates. Call Tony at 271-1400 
SUMMER RENT Urgently need a sublettor. 1 mile from campus at Cahill condo. Available May-Aug. Only 200$/mo. Own bedroom/bath. Will have two roommates. Call Tony at 271-1400 
SUMMER RENT Urgently need a sublettor. 1 mile from campus at Cahill condo. Available May-Aug. Only 200$/mo. Own bedroom/bath. Will have two roommates. Call Tony at 271-1400 4 bed 3 bath Oakhill apt for weekly summer rental. Call Mike@ 2136. 

FOR SALE 
TWIN BED FOR SALE Call Tracy 273-6401 
Furniture for Sale couch, twin bed, dresser & more Free Summer Storage call4-4463 
Three single lofts, getting bunks so must sell. $40 apiece OBO. One year old, buill by carpentar Dad!! call x11 01 ask for Sean 
'86 HONDA CRX FOR SALE Graduating-Must sell! 
• 
Great looking, blue, 2 door • 5-Spd, 90k miles, reliable 

• 
$3,500 or best offer Call Scott 6343984 


10 SPEED BIKE.272-6306 
FOR SALE -Two beds 1 twin & 1 double Very Cheap Call: 273-3932 
83 Nissan Sentra New starter break clutch exh 4 tires runs great 271­9714, 631-5613 
For Sale: Full couch, lamp, and chair Call 273-5989 
2 couches -$75ea./OBO 256-6604 
FURNITURE FOR SALE living room & bedroom 273-4803 
SENIORS 2 HOTEL ROOMS AVAILABLE DAYS INN ON 31 MAY 13-15 PLEASE CALL 273-6553 IF INTERESTED 
Spacious couch yours for $25 or b/o. Call x2449. 
College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath, w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to 
P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN 46634 
For Sale: U-shaped coach, tan chair, entertainment center, gas grill, oak table and chairs, cordless phone. lamp and more. Perfect for OC living. Call 273-6553. For Sale: brand new bed and oak desk. Call273-3920 and ask for Keith. 
Airline tix Fe. RT from S Bend to AIL $140. Good til Aug 94. 271-7280. Lve msg. 
1991 lsuzu Trooper II (silver) 30K; 4WD; AM/FM-Cass.; A/C excellent condition!! MUST SELL!!! $9400 call232-4736 
'91 Red Mere Capri Convertible 34K, AM/FM Cassette, AC, Power Locks, $8500. Call 233-5773. 
LOFT & FRIDGE FOR SALEH CALL LIZ X1912 with b.o. 
87 Red Camara lt, V8, loaded, 45k miles, 1 owner, immaculate. $6700. 684-0957 
DOUBLE LOFT $75 CAllx2485 
WATERBED FOR SALE Queen size for $125 Originally $250 small DESK also 
Dave 273-5850 
Wooden bedside cabinet with one drawer and shelf space for books. Excellent condition and perfect for either off-campus or in the dorm­Great size. Call 273-6548. 
FOR SALE-1 COUCH, 1 DESK LIKE NEW, BARGAIN PRICES. MARC 277-6130 
MUST SELL! I BEST OFFER!! IBM Compatible 286AT Computer with: 
Full Color Monitor 
40 meg hard drive dual floppy (5 1/4 and 3 1/2) enhanced keyboard Mouse 
Call Caroline at x4702 Furniture for sale: dresser, desk, 
curtains, bar stools, etc. 
Call 273-8562 

FOR SALE: Single bed with frame, arm chair, love seat sofa, large bookcase. Will deliver to your stor­age site. Best offer. 273-4979 
FOR SALE: 1990 VW Corrado G60. Grnlblk llhr, 5 spd, all options, 10CD player, alarm, snrf, 54K miles, $10,750 Call273-5862 
3 refrig-20/30/40$,nice couch50$,couch 30$,2chairs 20per (232-3736) 
1987 NISSAN PULSAR NX 
5-Speed, 76K, Exc.Cond 
$46000BO 
X4098 

Mac LCIII with monitor & software. 1 year old. $1500/obo. 631-9022. 
TICKETS 
I need 2 graduation tickets. My grandparents are coming to NO from LA for the first time. Call Elisa at 272-8563. 
I need extra graduation tickets ­
please call Brian at 4-4204 
Help! I need graduation tickets. 
Please call Tracy-2377 
Help! I need graduation tickets. 
Please call Mike-1651 

I need 2 grad. tickets. If you have 
extra please call -Anne x3358 
Sell me your ticket 

I need one graduation ticket. 
Will pay$$! 
Call Matt 273-8859 

I NEED GRADUATION TIX!! 
WILL PAY$$$$$$ 

PLEASE CALL MIKE @259-4986. 
Help!! I need graduation tics 
let's talk$$ tim x0514 
HELP!! I need extra grad. tix 
call PIER 273-4909 

I need graduation tickets ... 
please call Joe@ 237-0750 
we'll talk 

Help!!! Need extra graduation tix 
for family. Call Sean @ 273-3920. 
NO grad wants to see her l'il bro graduate but needs ticket! Call Jon@x3054to help! 
Need 3 or ANY EXTRA GRAD tixs you have Call Shannon 634-2859 
WANTED-3 GRADUATION 
TICKETS. $$$ CALL MARC 
277-6130 

PINK FLOYD-MAY 26 
CLEVELAND 

2 lower Box Seats for Sale 
MUST SELL-FACE VALUE! 
X 1368 

PERSONAL 
................KATHARSIS***'*'**•**••• 
APRIL15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss 
out. Fun starts at 1 O.For more 
information on gigs and parties 
call237-9702. Ask for LENNY. 
................KATHARSIS............. 
ADOPTION -Let us raise your baby as you would-with love, security and smiles. Please call Conni and Mark 1-800-392-0618 
J U N 0 A S 
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY 
OF RESUME AND DISK N TO CAREER & PLACE­MENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
R 
s 
FRIENDLY WASHINGTONIAN needs ride home after Senior Week. Will share expenses and driving. Call x4293 
DID YOU KNOW the last Observer is 4/27? It is not too early to place your farewell classifieds to seniors & your friends. You can type in your ad now until 4/26 between Bam to 3pm Mon-Fri. There will also be a graduation Observer on 5113. Deadline is 5/12. We are on the 3rd floor in LaFortune. 
SMEGMARIFF­ICII!!!!I!!I!!!!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!! 
SABOR LATINO 
Friday May 6, CLUB 23 
Great music, great fun! Come dance all night long. Best release after finals! (also: Wed. May 11, Club 23) 
SABOR LATINO 
Happy Birthday Mark Denlinger! -your london friends 
Amy Rebman, Though many miles we will part. True friendship lies in the heart. Good Luck in LONDON! Don't forget to RAVE! xoxo Marina 
The 4-year party is over... 
To: KK, KH, AG, MS, MH, CM, CH, RA, MK, JT, MB, LZ, BR, EK, Pl, BG, JF. everyone else in PW, the Grace guys, the Sled's guys, the Naugh guys, all the boyfriends, the OC crowd, all Benet grads, and everyone else ... 
Thanks for four great years! It's been one helluva college career. Bestof luck to all of you inthe future. Don't be surprised if an unem­ployed sportswriter shows up on your doorstep looking to mooch some day. This is getting cheesy as hell so ... sniff .. sniff ... 
SEEYA. 
Peace and Love, Marten 
P.S. For a really good laugh, be at the baseball game tonight for the 7th inning stretch. 
ATTN: SUMMER STUDENTS 
$5.50 HAIRCUT 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND 
233-4767 
GIRLS !!!! Are you intersted in joining an all female acappella group? Call Karen x4945 or Michelle x2909 
Want to get away from finals? would like a rider to Miami OH for Thur. Todd 1251 
Get paid to see movies! Part-time job opportunity with major Hollywood studio for 1994-95 school year. Contact Career and Placement Services for information packet and application. Deadline June1. 
WANTED -Rmmates or info about 
D.C. for the summer. Call Rebecca x3858 
Ode to Poop Poop is good Poop is great Poop is my roomie I love Poop. I'll miss you. love, Poop 
POOP 
Top 10 reasons to hang out in the 6 man. 
10. Hazel doesn't mind when we're loud. 
9. Cam's course in physical fitness. 
8. Weeder loved it when "FIRST we topped it off ...THEN we washed it." 
7. Duff will buy you a new phone...even if Thud is the only one who uses it. 
6. BB says, "Lamps' face is a great place to practice A art." 
5. Brems likes 'Peens 
4. It's a great place to see fresh­men pitch domination. 
3. The stank is oh so sweet! 
2. It's better than the tool shed. 
1. They're the classiest bunch of guys under the dome. Thanks for everything, Petes, Dungs, Draus, Plum, BB and Scraps. 
see CLASSIFIEDS I page 21 

Wednesday, April27, 1994 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 21 
J u N 0 R s Never Fail Novena I hate tea, tea is gross MICHELLE DROBITSCH May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be praised,
Classifieds 
u SUBMIT PRINTED COPY adored and glorified throughout the whole 
continued from page 20 
Please Help me! I lost my wallet last week and STILL haven't found it. If you found a wallet on campus last week please call Tim x1983. 
I think it's an auspicious night for the final SAW gathering. We've worked hard, and now we deserve a Bon-r. Any doubts? Let's party at Campus View! Welcome. 
Congratulations Lamps, Brems and Cammy-butt. Grace will never be the same with out you -I'll miss you guys next year. Take carell Love, Pooler 
I have an internship in Columbia, Maryland this summer and need a place to live. If you are looking for a roommate or have a room to rent, please call Leah at 284-5115. 
Bridgey -He's a nice guy BUT... Just kidding, no buts this time! 

Congratulations Steve. Sheila, Nicole and Christine from your fellow world travelers. Hope the Sanskrit comes in handy! 
•••••••••••••BOK!IIII***••••••••••• 
Have you found your wallet yet? Just won­dered -where's my pop tart anyway? Hey man. No, I'm a woman. I know "sh'up Kir.• "K." Wah-wah!! 
Lisa (notice I left the last name off, aren't you proud?) We STILL miss you, you're still sweet, and all men STILL want you. The real question -are you still a b-and proud of it? Love ya honl -Bridgey, Farler and Marge 
I'll be the weeping willow drowning in my tears and you can go swimming when you're here 
Schnor, Jamie, Erin and Kaaren­Good luck! Thanks for every1hing (especially trips to Osco)! Love, Liz, Julie, Lisa and Spak Thanks for all of your efforts to make our freshman year the very best it could be. They are greatly appreciated! We love you! 
Alaina, Amy, Gretchen, Shannon, and Stephanie 
Shannon-You've never had seasoned fries?! G -Hey slippery nip! Buek-We're cut. (Geez, it took you all year.) Tracy-Troop it! Alaina-You're fat. !love you roomie! Thanks for making my year so much fun. Laws P.S.-A little less talk and a lot more action. 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
EUROPE ONLY $229, NY $79 AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009 Call for pro­gram descriptions! 

Sincere %an~ ana (jooc£ 'Wislies to 
rr'om Mc'lJennott, C.S.C. 
wfz.ose commitment to service ana justice ana peace ana coffa6oration witli tlie Center liave enricliea tlie fives oja{{ojus. 
Witli appreciation, crfie Staff of'Ifie Center for Socia{ Concerns 
All Major Credit Cards Accepted 

Schenkels O.J. 
1/2 Gallon 

$1.19 
Open 
24 
Hours 
seyferts 
Big Bag of Chips 
2 I $3.00 

r-----oiL.:-cuee_&_FIL"iE"R-SPEci,\L:_____, ~--coM"PuTERiieo-4VltiE"E"L"AL:iGN"Me'N"T-l 
Up to 4 quarts of 10W30 quality motor oil 1 Set front wheel caster, camber and toe on cars with 1 . . . . ' : adjustable suspension, Chevettes, Fieros, light :
Q 

uallty Agressor 011 filter, ChassiS lubrication, trucks cars requiring MacPherson Strut correction 
1 1 Safety inspection :and/or ~ar shims extra. Warranted 4 months or 6,000: No appointment necessary : miles whichever comes first. : 
: $3995 :

$1295 ! !
expires 4130 expires 4130 
L------------------------------------~L------------------------------------~ 
OF RESUME AND DISK 

N TO CAREER & PLACE­MENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
A 
s 
" ... yeah, that's how Houdini died. Some guy just came up and punched him in the stomach while he wasn't looking." 
FREE FISHING VACATION 30-yr.-old quadriplegic looking for someone to accompany my parents & me to a nearby cottage in Ml for all or part of July 9-23. Every1hing provided. Have 16' pontoon boat & looking for fishing companion. CAll 273­0842. 
0¢0 THE COPY SHOP 00¢ in the LaFortune Student Center EXTENDED FINALS HOURS!!! 
Mon -Thurs 7:30am -MIDNIGHT 4/29 Friday 7:30am -MIDNIGHT Saturday 9:00am -MIDNIGHT Sunday 9:00am -MIDNIGHT Mon -Thurs 7:30am -MIDNIGHT Friday 7:30 am -7:00 pm 
Sat. May 7 Summer Hours Begin!! I 
world, now and forever. Most Sacred Heart of Jesus, I put my trust in You. Holy Mary, Mother of Jesus, pray for me. St. Theresa, Child of Jesus, pray for me, St. Jude, helper of hopeless causes, pray for me and grant this favor that I ask. 
Ho Guildenstem, bring me my Lordi 
Genna miss you Zn! 
Can you see Mexico from here? 
LGRI 
T & Tare HOT 
NO won't be the same 
member, you need lots of Potassium in your 
body 
Lots of love always, Rosencrantz 
P.S. Has anyone seen my toilet papered car? Oh look, Chris, there it is! Pee, car, cup, ahh?l 
GOOD-BYE, GRACE! love, the Mod Quad 

DAUGHTER'S MOVED TO ST. LOUIS. HAVE TRUCK GOING THERE. FOR MORE INFO., CALL PAUL AT 234-0279. 
Good-bye Brent, Bench, Paui,Dumbra and the boys in #7. We Love Ya and you'll ALWAYS be a 'BLUR' in our memory. 
LOVE, JENNI & KATY 

see MORE CLASS I page 26 
STUDENTS! 
Shopping for a new car for after graduation? Then look at this! 
• 
Rates as low as 6.25% APR for a new car and 7.25% APR for a used car. 

• 
Up to 5 years to repay and deferred payments until September, 1994. 

• 
$100 CASH BONUS when your loan is disbursed. 


Students with good credit or no credit qualify, no co-signer needed. Bring your letter of employment. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University of Notre Dome 
page 22 


Baseball 
continued from page 32 
night. 
Indiana State is the first team with a winning record that the Irish have faced since the Mi­ami Hurricanes came into town over Easter Break, and the Sycamores have an arsenol of weapons for the Irish to handle. 
With the 7-5 win, Indiana State handed Wichita State its first Missouri Conference loss as sophomore second baseman Brian Warn went 3-for-4 with a double, a triple, and five RBis. Warn has started every game for the Sycamores, but is only hitting .280 with 23 RBis for the season. 
The main offensive threats for Indiana State are center­fielder Ric Johnson, catcher Jon Lambert, shortstop Brian Przespolewski and freshman right fielder Dan Olson. 
Johnson has taken over the team lead in hitting with a .368 average after registering a .063 average through the first 10 games of the season. His totals include seven doubles, a triple, and a team-high 16 stolen bases. 
Lambert who is hitting .346 with six home runs and a team­high 46 RBis is among the vote leaders for the catching posi­tion for the Smith Super Team, the National Collegiate Baseball All-Star team. 
Przepolewski has a .341 aver­age that includes a team-lead-
Colleen: 
What a smile­
then and now! 
jiappy 21st C/3irthday! May 3,1994 
fgve, C/Jad, Mom §' cBridget 



is looking for an editor for next year. Preference will be given to those with magazine or newspaper editing experience. Familiarity with Pagemaker a plus. If interested, call William Lorie @ 4-3000 or 1-57 57, or email wlorie or William.A.Lorie.l @nd.edu. 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 27, 1994 
ing five triples while Olson is consistency. Although junior righthander the long ball hitter on the team The control problems worry Tim Kraus (4-0) and freshman with eight homers. Murphy. Gregg Henebry were in control 
The Indiana State mound "We should be concerned in their last outings, freshman crew with a team earned run that if we stop throwing strikes, Darin Schmalz and junior Craig average of 5.26 will try to shut they're going to hit you," said Allen struggled in their respec­down Kent and Company. On Murphy. tive starts. the mound for the Sycamores Evansville tagged the Irish What has been more prob­tonight will be either lefthander mound crew for 36 hits in the lematic for the Irish has been 
Tom Browning {5-3, 4.95) or four-game series while Goshen middle relief. Junior Marty De­righty Scott Joyce (4-4, 5.25). College's NAIA hitters pounded Graff was a victim of Dr. Jeykll 
But the pitcher to fear on the out 19 hits in Monday night's and Mr. Hyde syndrome last Indiana State staff is right­doubleheader. weekend snagging a relief win handed reliever Jeff Leaman. Notre Dame's starters have with 1-2/3 innings of one-hit Leaman, who has a 6-1 record been both shaky and strong re­ball on Saturday and then los­and a 2.08 ERA, is nicknamed cently. Freshman righthander ing his edge and his control on 
"Vulture" for his ability to win Larry Mohs (2-1) has been one Sunday and Monday. DeGraff at the expense of the starting of the highlights, spreading five came in both games with run­pitching staff. hits over five innings against ners on base and he could not 
Although it is starting to Evansville and turning in a close the inning. sound repetitive, the Irish three-inning shutout perfor­Murphy thinks that DeGraff is pitching staff remains one of mance in relief against Goshen. trying too hard, but the junior the main worries for Murphy's Senior Tom Price (8-3) was has no answers for his recent club. the victim of pesky Evansville wildness. 
In the Evansville series and hitters and costly Irish errors in Junior Rich Sauget, who had the Goshen doubleheader, a his last outing, but the left­not pitched since the pitching staff that should be bander should return to form Valparaiso game last week, 
finding its groove struggled on the mound against Indiana was also experiencing control with control problems and in-State tonight. problems, giving up one run on 
Are You Thinking ofBuying a New Car?!! 
(Now that all the morning classes, term papers and all-nighters are finished!!) 
Well ... Jordan Ford Makes It Easy ForYou. 
INTRODUCING RYAN ROBERTS 
S400 CJ\SH BJ\CK 
OR 

SPECIJ\L J\.P.R. 
CALL OR STOP IN FOR DETAILS 
t -1~1
JORDAN FORD {
Corner of Jefferson and Cedar, Mishawaka 
Campus Phone: (219) 277-6780
(219) 259-1981 °(219) 264-9926 
EMAll-: Ryan.N.Roberts.8 @nd.edu 
I\IG THIS s 
OpeNI P~INc
3/10 MILE NORTH OF STATE LINE ON US-31 NILES, MICHIGAN 

40 STATION DRIVING RANGE WITH TARGET GREENS,SAND TRAPS, BALL DISPENSING MACHINE & CLUB CLEANERS. 
7 A.B.C. BATTING CAGES 
MINIATURE GOLF WITH .... WATER FALLS, 
STREAMS & ISLAND GREEN. HANDICAP ACCESSABLE 
ARCADE BUILDING PRO SHOP SNACK BAR 
~-------------------------~----------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, April27, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
well, as evidenced by his mere the starting first baseman for 11 strikeouts in 122 at-bats. the Irish for much of the year,
Pitino rejects Lakers, Kent 
Kent started off the year so proving he is capable of adjust­continued from page 32 well that head coach Pat Mur­ing to a new role. phy moved him from the bot­"It takes awhile to adjust to a
will remain at KU 
Kent's batting average stands tom of the lineup to either the new position, but when you get at .402, which puts him first number three or four spot. right down to it, fielding is By MIKE EMBRY contact with the Lakers while 
among all Irish players with at "It surprised me," said Kent fielding," explained Kent. 
Associated Press on a golfing and speaking trip least 10 at-bats. Kent also leads of Murphy's move. ''I'm not a "You can actually gain a lot of to Los Angeles last week. the team in hits, with 49, runs power hitter by any means." confidence over there {at first LEXINGTON, Ky. "There has never been a ne­{42), RBis {45), doubles {13), While the number three spot base). You've got more time, Rick Pitino isn't leaving Ken­gotiation of any sort with any­triples {5), and total bases {84). and especially the cleanup spot and a bigger glove. If you knock tucky anytime soon. body. At all," Pitino said. Much of this offensive success are traditionally reserved for down the ball, you've done your That was the message Pitino "That's all I can tell you. It has come as a surprise to the the big power hitters, Kent has job, where if you block the ball personable Kent, who gives not disappointed. His run pro­at short, you've committed an
tried to give at a news confer­never got to that point. Up until much of the credit for his per­duction has surprised everyone, error."
ence Tuesday after reports he that point I fully expected to be formance to his teammates. and he even has some power in was destined for the Los Ange­back. 
"When the rest of the guys his bat, having belted four Kent's .994 fielding percent­les Lakers. It wasn't the first "Contrary to what you may get on base for you, it makes it home runs, double his output in age is testimony to his success­time Pitino was said to be leav­think, this is the premier bas­that much easier to hit," said 107 at-bats last season. ful adjustment, although he ising for another job. ketball program in the country Kent. "It's tough for you to "I realize that when I'm hit­the first to admit he's "not the ''I'm going on my sixth year today at any level. I believe 
make a mistake, especially if ting in the third or fourth spot, epitome of a first baseman." at Kentucky," he said. "You that. But on the other hand, it's there's less than two outs. You pitchers will gain a lot of re­Perhaps it is Kent's size that fail to realize this. Since my a very difficult life. It's more hit a fly ball, and you get spect for me," commented makes his accomplishment's at second year, you've been writ­difficult than any of you can praised for it." Kent. "You're always going to the plate this season most im­ing about this. Just take me at imagine." While there is some truth to get a ball to hit in either of pressive. Listed in the Notre my word. The problem I have In the past three years, in ad­this, Kent himself is the reason those spots." Dame media guide at 5'10" and 
for his success. , "Obviously, I While he posted impressive 165 pounds, he is far from ais there is no way to put a stop dition to the Lakers, he has have to get the bat on the ball, numbers in his freshman cam­physical specimen. 
to this." been linked to coaching jobs which is something I pride paign last season, Kent hardly "I've always felt like I'm theBut he admitted that he had with the Atlanta Hawks, Los myself on being able to do." enjoyed the kind of success he little guy," says Kent. "I've al­
Angeles Clippers, New Jersey 
Getting the bat on the ball is has met with so far this year. ways played on the little, scrap­something Kent has done very ''I've always loved to play de­py team. I like to just go out

Happy 20th Birthday 
Andrew Burns 
Love, Mom, Dad, Mike, Heidi rD Vincent. : 



fense," mused Kent. "I never there, hustle, and get dirty." felt very confident in my hitting Kent realizes size isn't every­throughout my high school ca­thing, though, adding, "Base­reer. That kind of changed last ball is around 95 percent men­year, though, when I finally re­tal. Coach {JefO Forney has alized that I like to hit." helped me out a lot this year, 
That realization is a burden helping me realize the impor­for opposing pitchers, but is tance of a good mental ap­good news for his team. proach, taking things one at­
bat at a time." 
As impressive as Kent has "This has definitely been a been with the bat this season, career year for me -so far," he has also proved to be a great laughed Kent. I always feel you a&set on the field. Kent came to can progress from year to year Notre Dame having played -that's what baseball is all shortstop nearly his entire about. I can't be satisfied with baseball career, yet he has what I've done so far." emerged as one of the most Murphy summed up the mys­versatile fielders on the Irish tique of Robbie Kent best. squad, possessing the tools to "He's the best execution guy play any position in the infield. on the team," said Murphy. "He 
This season, Kent has been just finds a way to win." 
FREE ICE CREAM FREE LACROSSE 
#16 Notre Dame vs. Michigan State 
Friday -April 29 7:30 pm Rain: Loftus Center or Shine: Cartier Field 
Free Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream Bars 
Courtesy of the 

to the first 850 fans!
Notre Dame Afumni Association 

Plus free admission 

page 24 

The Observer • SOFTBALL 
in the second game. She went three innings, giving up three hits and earning her fourteenth victory. Kobata went four in­nings to get the save. 
The causes of both Battersby and Kobata were aided by a tough Irish defense. The team that committed nine errors in four games this weekend had just two Tuesday afternoon. The infield was especially effec­tive, as third baseman Andy Keys, shortstop Christy Con­noyer, and second baseman Michele Cline all came up with tough plays that squashed Spartan rallies. 
"Defensively we were a lot stronger today," Miller said. "It was all we did in practice this week and all we will be do­ing for a while." 
Hayes picked up another RBI in the second game, bringing her total to 43, which should 

ND German Summer Lan~uage Institute June 21-August 3, r994 
The Notre Dame German Summer Language Institute offers an intensive summer program of courses and cultural enrichment. Earn up to 9 language credits at $130 per credit hour (!) in small, lively classes taught with imagination. The professorS are experienced in offering concen­trated, yet personalized instruction. Recent ND graduates benefit from a 50% reduction in tuition. 
Learn The Language of the 90's 
German Feature Films/Soaps Videos/Interactive Video/ComputersNideo Discs Daily Tutorial in State of the Art Language Laboratory Tuition Savings/Personal Attention Imaginative Instruction/Lively Classroom Atmosphere/Experienced Professors 
Classes Offered (three credits eachl: 
GE 101 Beginning German I: first 2·112 weeks (3 cr.). Intensive introduction to German for stu­
dents with no or minimal background. GE I02 Beginning German II: second 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Continuation of GE I 0 I. GE I03 Beginning German Ill: third 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Continuation of GE I02. Fulfills ND language requirement. Taught daily 9-11 a.m., tutorial at I p.m. GE 240 Conversational German (3 cr.). A course for students of all ages with some background in German (101/102= elementary, or equivalent). Emphasis on conversation, speaking fluency and comprehension, using interactive video discs together with accompanying textbook. Communicate effectively and appropriately in a range of common situations and for a variety of purposes. 
Fulfills ND language requirement. Taught T/Th, 7-9:30 p.m. Application forms may be obtained by writing to: Summer School Director, 312 Main Building, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Softball 
continued from page 32 

coming Perkins' specialty, as she has driven in six of the last seven Notre Dame game-win­ning runs. 
"Our young bats are really strong for us right now," Miller said. "Liz and Meghan jare making huge contributions." 
Lead-off hitter Murray set the table for Perkins in the ninth, with her second single of the day. She went 2-for-3 with a double in the nightcap and is batting close to .650 over her past four games. 
The other rookie making a contribution to both wins was freshman pitcher Joy Battersby. 
"Today was the best Joy has pitched all year," Miller said. 
"Her location was by far the best it has been and she was working better than I've seen her in awhile." 
Battersby started game one, going seven-plus innings and giving up one earned run and five hits. She opened the game by walking lead-off batter Tammy Evans and having Patti Raduenz drive her home two hitters later with a single. 
She shut the Spartans out the rest of the way before surren­dering to Terri Kobata in the top of the eighth. Kobata no-hit Michigan State, striking out three in two innings en route to the win. 
"I felt more in control today; my rise ball was working well, and in the first game they were popping it up," Battersby said. "I just felt more confident . " 
That confidence showed as Battersby took the mound again 

The Office of Recreational Sports would like to thank all those persons who made this past year a great success. 
Rectors N.D. Security The Observer N.D. Golf Course Rockne Memorial Rolf's Aquatic Center Loftus Sports Center Joyce A.C.C. Ice Rink Athletic Grounds Crew Athletic Commissioners RecService Course Instructors Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center 
Intramural Officials &Aerobic Instructors Student Supervisors & Issue Room Workers Medical Services, EMT's & First Aid Personnel and all of the participants. 
THANK YOU! 
HeY Y~all! Jodi Mordan is 21 •••and finallY lei!al• 
From the !!ani! back home in Alabama 

Wednesday, April 27, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
Ranked squads next for Irish 'Big Daddy' looking to 
By MEGAN McGRATH doubleheader to Indiana Satur­After DePaul, Notre Dame Sports Writer day, the Hoosiers took over the must prepare for their first 
sign before preseason
top spot. The Blue Demons meeting with Ohio State. 
The Notre Dame softball team were also beaten twice by No. 3 "Since we've never seen them By JOHN NOLAN salary he will demand, sayingcloses its home season this Illinois-Chicago. The Irish play before, there are a lot of Associated Press he will leave it to Brown and weekend with two of the Mid­managed splits with both UIC unknown factors about Ohio 
Wilkinson's agent, Leigh
west's toughest teams paying a and Indiana. State," Miller says. "We know CINCINNATI Steinberg, to reach a fair deal. 
visit to Ivy Field. "I think the pressure today is they are a big hitting team with Dan Wilkinson, the top pick in The Ohio State defensive line­Today at 3:30 p.m., the Irish on DePaul, since they are a strong pitching staff, and we Sunday's NFL draft, said Tues­man, from Dayton, said hehost DePaul, ranked fourteenth ranked higher and need to win are familiar with their coach day he hopes to sign with the doesn't care whether reportersin the country and second in every game to maintain a top and her style." 
Cincinnati Bengals soon enough refer to him as Dan or Bigthe NCAA Mideast region poll. position," Miller says. "If we The Buckeyes extended their 
Saturday, Ohio State comes to can come back focused, its winning streak to fourteen this to get into preseason camp on Daddy, the nickname that has Ivy Field for a 1 p.m. double­within our reach. weekend with four wins over time. followed him. header. The Buckeyes are "They are an aggressive team Michigan State. In early April That was music to the ears of "I feel the name Big Daddy fourth in the regional poll. who hit well and will run, run, they dropped a four-game se­general manager Mike Brown, will get around," he said. Notre Dame (32-17) is in a tie run," Miller projects. "If they ries to Indiana, and have lost to whose Bengals rarely have the Except for linebacker James for seventh with Iowa in the get a chance, they will keep Michigan and Loyola, the sec­No. 1 pick signed in time for Francis in 1990, the Bengals same poll. taking it at you." ond-place team in the MCC. camp -and sometimes not in have had a history of failing to 
"This is a big next couple of The 32-11 Blue Demons are Notre Dame swept Michigan in time for the season. reach contract agreements withdays for us," Irish coach Liz led by Missy Nowak, hitting March and split a double-head­
"The signing part will take their No. 1 draft picks by the
Miller says. "It's a tough time .467, and Erin Hickey, who bats er with Loyola Friday. 
care of itself," Brown said at a July opening of training camp. 
of the year with all the aca­.458. Both have been among Outfielder Jen Fredrickson is news conference to introduce Steinberg represented defen­demic pressures on the girls the NCAA's top 25 sluggers. Ohio State's leading hitter, with Wilkinson to Cincinnati re­sive lineman Jason Buck (1987) 
right now, so we just have to Nowak has 40 RBis, while a .394 batting average and 32 porters. "It always does. I have and quarterback David Klingler 
concentrate on softball when Hickey leads the team with 28 RBI. Genice Turley, a junior we are on the field." stolen bases. no concerns about that." (1992). Both were Bengals' No.
college transfer from Glendale DePaul went into the week­· Amber Podlemy is DePaul's Community College, leads the There were a few introduc­1 picks and both missed all of end as the number one team in winningest pitcher, with an 18-Buckeye pitching staff with a tory matters. Wilkinson side­camp in holdouts. the region, but after dropping a 4 record and a 1.86 ERA. 19-7 record and a 1.41 ERA. stepped a question about what The Bengals were second­



HAPPY 
21st 

BIRTHDAY 
JIM SCHERMERHORN 
PWWELCOMES THE CLASS OF 1994 
worst of all NFL teams against the run last season. Defensive coordinator Larry Peccatiello expects to start Wilkinson on a four-man line designed to stop the run. 
Wilkinson would pair with defensive end John Copeland, a run-stutTer who was last year's No. 1 draft pick from Alabama. 
"I talked to' him two months ago," Wilkinson said. "He told me to get up here and get him some help." 
The 6-foot-5 Wilkinson, whose last documented weight was 313 pounds, said he doesn't care whether the Bengals play him as a defensive end or tack­le. 

The University of Notre Dame continues to be a major source of sta« for Price Waterhouse. We are proud to welcome the following 1994 graduates to our firm. 
Name Office Department 
Eoin Beirne Boston Audit and Business Advisory Services 
<. 
I. Scott Date Houston Management Consulting Kevin Flanagan New York Audit and Business Advisory Services Katherine Fong New York Audit and Business Advisory Services Kimberley Griffin New York Audit and Business Advisory Services Claire Heil New York Audit and Business Advisory Services Amy R. Hester Chicago Audit and Business Advisory Services LisaHoye Washington-OGS Management Consulting Todd A. Klimek Chicago Audit and Business Advisory Services Michael Lawrence Chicago Management Consulting -Public Utilities Michael McMahon Chicago Audit and Business Advisory Services Russell G. Nelson Atlanta Audit and Business Advisory Services Sherri M. Orlosky Baltimore Audit and Business Advisory Services Matthew Schneiderhahn Chicago Management Consulting -Public Utilities Sean E. Trimber Washington Audit and Business Advisory Services 
GOOD LUCK TO ALL "FIGHTING IRISH" TAKING THE CPA EXAM! 
Price Waterhouse 


~-------------~----~-----~---------­
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April27, 1994 
Sue, my bride to be,

Class Sonics sense lack of respect
lloveyoul! 
continued from page 21 

Top Ten Reasons to go to the #16 Notre 
Dame vs. Michigan State Lacrosse Game 
Friday, April 29th 
10. Two words-Ben and Jerry's 
9. Even the goalie scores 

8. Awesome pre-game mix (the warm-up 
tape scares small children) #7 Randy Colley 
6. Halftime streaking show 

5. It's for the NCAA Tournament (last chance for the Final Four) 
4. You really don't need to study 

3. Rules?We don't need no stinkin' rules 
2. The whole point of the game is to score in the crease 
AND THE NUMBER ONE REASON TO NO VS. MSU LACROSSE FRIDAY NIGHT: 
1. It's the only sport where you can say "The guy has a great stick" 
GO IRISH LAX! BEAT MICHIGAN STATE! 
Sue, my bride to be, I love you!! 
Sue, my bride to be, I love you!! 

~~ 
FOR THE 
-' 
London  $275*  
Paris  $293*  
Frankfurt  $293*  
Rome  $355*  
Athens  $355•  

"f<m 11t en Wflt fran Clicogo boscd on retn:ltrip Plf· choso.ll!>lri:tions opply taxts rn net ircluded ond forts rn !ltljoct " cl'arl3<-C.ll 1 rtr cd-.r v.oldwid< c:lts~Mioro. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 

311-951-0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 
Sue, my bride to be, I love you!! 
"Dang, if Peter was the rock, then we're sell" -Katie C. 
Thanks to the coolest Communities NO group on campus! Have a great summer. -Ed 
I need grad tixll Please call Mike at27H706 
Help! I need grad tix!! Chris @4·1069 
ATTENTION PROF. GASKI: 
We made up all the information! If you see this ad call631·4542. 
HEY JUNIORS! 
Get $25 memberships at the Alumni-Senior Club tonight for just $10. This is a one-time offer that can't be beat! 
Paul· I got the last word! Always remember that you won the Elegy Bowl. Love, Susan 
liappy Birthday 
Aimee 
-Love. Mom. Dad. Missy. Emerson. Andrew (9 Muffie 
ByJIMCOUR 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE 
Although they had the best regular-season record in the NBA, the Seattle SuperSonics aren't considered a strong fa­vorite to win the league cham­pionship. 
The Sanies finished with a 63­19 record, five more wins than any other team in the league. But they don't have any super­stars and don't seem to scare any of their opponents. 
"I really don't think we're the favorites because for most of the year nobody's given us any credit, especially back East," forward Detlef Schrempf said. "When they've talked about the West, they've talked about Phoenix or Houston. People have said all along that we're going to fall apart sooner or later." 
The Sanies didn't fall apart in November, December, January, February, March or April. And they don't think they're going to fall apart in the playoffs, start­ing with their opening-round series against Denver. 
"With the homecourt advan­tage, I think we are the team to beat," coach George Karl said. 
"We're nine deep and I don't see a lot of teams who are nine deep who can play," added guard Vincent Askew. 
The Sanies win with depth and defense. They wear down opponents with a full-court press that helped produce 1,053 steals this season, only six fewer than the league record. 
Seattle has no Shaquille O'Neal, Hakeem Olajuwon or Charles Barkley. What the team does have is great balance. Six players average in double fig­ures, led by Shawn Kemp with 
18.1 points per game. 

With so many good players, playing time is precious. Nine Sanies average more than 20 minutes a game. 
Schrempf, who averaged 19.1 points last season with Indiana, has seen his average fall to 15 per game this year with Seattle. 
"My role is different now but I expected that," he said. "I knew I wasn't going to come in here and play 40 minutes and shoot the ball 20 times. I un­derstand that, and I don't have a problem with it. It's about winning." 
Gary Payton was unhappy and confused before Karl replaced 
K.C. Jones midway through the 1991-92 season. Since then, he has developed into an All-Star point guard. 
"I think Gary got with a sys­tem he liked," Karl said. "I think early in his career he was confused and lacked some con­fidence." 
NEED SUMMER WORK? STAYING IN THE AREA? 
3 SHIFTS, REGULARAND ON-CALL 
SOCIAL SERVICE WORK 
SEE FR. STEVE NEWTON. C.S.C 127 SO RI N HALL 631-6444 
eAca 

We Need Your Help! 
e Honor Code at Notre Dame works for the students, and the Honor Code Committee Which has served to write the Honor Code and educate the community on the Code needs your hel make it better suit our needs next year. If you are interested in helping in any of the following reas next year, please fill out the following application. 
•Freshmen 
Orientation Weekend 

•Liaison 
Between Faculty and Students 

•Liaison 
Between Departmental Honesty Committees and our Committee 

•Education 
of Code 

•Integration 
of Code 



University of Notre Dame Honor Code Committee 
Student Application 
Please return your completed application to Debra Heerensperger, Chairperson, 240 Farley Hall, 4-4033. 
y do you want to be on the Honor Code Committee; what do you feel you have to offer it? 

Wednesday, April27, 1994 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 
THE ACADEMIC CODE OF HONOR: A REPORT TO THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY 
, While it is recognized that the faculty has the responsibility to establish academic requirements, it is the responsibility of the community of students and faculty to strive to assume honorable behavior in academic 
work (The Ac~tiemicCode#of Ho\hor HarfdB5*0k). 
··t:w;;;,mMr·;<WMHn· 
0 ne goal of th~... ,~caq~~,!.~.... ~ode of Hon.~E.~£2,ci~.~tt~~~... ~s ....,~.2"..~,~~rea~.~~:~~ude~E ... and faculty unq~rstanding and ,~jyarenesi..£~E.rh~M"~2.4~:.Ths;.1993-2.1 school,,.m, year marks the adoption of the Academic Code of Honor as an official ''"'·· 
-
University policy, The purpose of the A~ademic Code of Honor is to create an academic atmosphere which is based or{'hoth the honesty and integrity of the University's community as a whole. Further, the Academic Code ofHonor advocates responsibilityfor the University's community to actively maintain and uphold the Academic Code of Honor and the ideals which is based on. 
This advertisement is a continuation of the'fi{actice"'begun during the 1990-92 school year to publish statistics froin the Honesty Committee hearings. During this Academic year (1993-94), a number of hearings 
l
have been heard in the four colleges. In order to preserve confidentiality, 
1 
l
only a summary of the results 
is' presented here: ·•· 
l ~ 
Arts and Letters Engineering Business Science 

Presented to you by the student representatives J'on the Honor Cod~ Committee: 
Tim Ahern, Planner Hall Mark Counselman, Off;~ampus Andy Dinan, Zahm Hall Kyle Flemming, Grace Hall Debra Heerensperger, Farley Hall Eugene Lee, Alumni Hall Dean Lytle, Grace Hall Robert Mundt, Planner Hall Jason Schroeder Grace Hall Jennifer Walsh, Pasquerilla West 
-~-----· 
The Observer • LACROSSE 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 32 

leads his team with 48 points. 
Right along side Colley is 
Robbie Snyder. The crease at­
tacker has parlayed instincts 
and stick skills into 4 7 points. 
With two potent weapons for 
the opposition to worry about, 
opportunities for others have 
opened up. 

Recently, it has been Brian 
GilfUlan who has taken advan­
tage. The sophomore has 
notched seven goals in the past 
two games and is establishing 
himself as a reliable contribu­
tor to the scoreboard. 

Also, the Notre Dame 
midfielders have elevated their 
offensive game to match their 
solid defensive efforts. 

Middies have accounted for 
15 goals in the past two victo­
ries. This is crucial to the con­
~-------~-----­
Wednesday, April27, 1994 
usually happy but not with Mike. They better be careful because he's thinking shot." 
He has teamed with Billy Gallagher, Chris Bury to keep the ball in the hands of the offense and not headed toward goalie Ryan Jewell. 
"We're playing really well de­fensively," said Ahmuty. "We just can't get into a lapse. But after 10 games I think we should be able to avoid that." 
A large portion of this responsibility will fall on the shoulders of the midfielders. 
"They are a middie-oriented team," observed Ahmuty. "Our defensemen should be able to handle their attack. We (mid­fielders) are going to have to have a big day." 
If they do, the Irish will be headed to their fourth tourna­ment appearance in five years. 


tinued success of the offense. Without such production, teams can devote a great deal of attention to shutting off Colley and Snyder, but with the increased scoring from people like Billy Hogan and Marc Pasquale, the Irish can spread the ball around. 
"We don't really run our of­fense around anyone," said coach Kevin Corrigan. "We try to get people the ball where they can be effective. It's great to get everybody involved." 
In the past three games, ev­erybody has included defense­man Mike Iorio. The junior long-stick has scored at least once in the past three contests. 
"He's so big and strong and fast that he's really tough to stop," said Ahmuty. "When defenseman get over the mid­field line, the riding team is 
The Observer/Eric Ruethllng 

-
Billy Hogan will try to fend off the attacking Spartan midfiefders as Notre Dame enters a crucial regional contest. 
Arrive alive ••• •••don't drink and drivel 
MADELEVA 
A WOMAN OF FAITH, STRENGTH & WISDOM 
Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff. CSC 
Educe1tor of Women 

Past President of Saint Mary's College Notre D<lme, Indiana 
Founder of the First School of Theology 
, for 
Women in the United States 

Nationally Known Poet and Author 
A Pictorial Biography 
by Maria Assuntn Werner, CSC 
Over 300 pag~.:S, soft cover-S 19.95 

(Please include $2.50 for JHJ.'ttatt and handling.) 
Make checks payable to: Madeleva-Wemer Saint Mary's • Bux 72 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

"Tired of the same old summer job?" 
0 Earn money and gain valuable work experience in some of Chicago's top businesses. 
0 Enhance your computer skills and develop key networking resources. 
0 The Choice for Staffing offers the best benefits in the temporary industry. 
For more information call The Choice for Staffing at (312) 372-4500. 
Clelc•r• I S•• Fr~~Ndaco w.,~a,,.po ... v.c. 

r--------------------------------------------------,
CLIP THIS AD AND SAVE 
$2.00PER BOX! 
(LOWEST RATES IN TOWN WITH THIS AD) 
•Computers 
•TV/Stereo 

•
Books • Whatever! 


B~~ESPLUS 
I I  5622 Grape Road  914 Erskine Plaza  
I I I  Mishawaka  South Bend  
I I  ;277-5555  291-2000  


r 
! ~ 
! ~ 
' 
r _, 
II 

BALTIMORE 
Kerry T. Huecker 
BOSTON 

~ 
Christopher Corbett Tara R. Greene 
CHICAGO 

Aimee L Butler Carl j. Cozen Sean M. Farnan Christopher D. Farr Nicholas M. Lorenzo Paul]. Nigrelli Anton Rivera 
-~· 
Eileen P Shelley 
Wang Zhidong 
HOUSTON jill R. Zadrozny 
~c~~~~=-c.c.£3~~~-=.c~~~~=-c.c.~ IL-------------------------------------------------­

Coopers&Lybrand 

NfiTilE flAME'S 
Class of 1994 
And is proud to welcon1e the following graduates who will be joining our finll. 
Coopers
I&Lybrand 

NoT JUST KNOWLEDGE. KNOW HOW.sM Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer 
ii 
I I ii 
.. 
1,1 
LOS ANGELES i: 
·~· 
" ;:;
Won Sok Suh 
MINNEAPOLIS 
jeremy D. Uhl  
NEW YORK Matthew C. Carbone  II ... n  
PHOENIX  
Elizabeth Bolger  
RICHMOND Stephanie L Druley  II  
SOUTH BEND  

Stephanie j. Pinter Teresa C. Seanor 
II (!
... I I 
fi 


Wednesday, April 27, 1994 
The Observer • SMC TENNIS 

Congratu{ations to 
riiie C{ass of1994 


for your commitment to service ana justice ana peace May it continue to enricfi your fives 
am£ 


tfirougfi you, your community 
Witfi appreciation, CJ'fie Staff of%e Center for Socia[ Concerns 
HaJPJPY BirihJay9 Batman 
' 

& Rolbin 
Recycle Your Books for Cash 
~\.\.i 
at the
"'t~ 

,~,,.o~,..,~ 
Up to SO% for your used textbooks Fast Service, Great Prices Recycling Makes Dollars and Sense 
page 29 

Injuries mar finale for Belles' tennis 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Spans Editor 
Sometimes that fighting spirit isn't enough. The Saint Mary's tennis team could not pull out a victory against the Albion Britains in yesterday's match. The Belles lost 6-3, dropping their season record to 12-5. 
"The score doesn't reflect how close the match was or how much effort the girls put into the game," said coach Katie Cromer. 
Even though the team did not win over all, there were some important personal victories. The number two doubles team, Robin Hrycko and Thayma Darby, won to improve to 15-2 on the season. 
"We felt that we gave them the match at the invitational and we had something to prove to ourselves," said Hrycko. "This was our biggest win of the season." 
Darby fell on her ankle yes­terday in her singles match, which was a major factor in her defeat. Nevertheless, she finished the match and walked home, but was rushed to the hospital that night to get X-rays for a possible break. 
The Britains number four singles player and number two doubles player. Kristin Misner, was also suffering from a bac­teria infection in her lungs and ears. Yesterday's match was her first since the ,Mid-West In­vitational in early March. 
"If I was healthy, I really feel that we could have won the match (against Darby and Hrycko)," said Misner. "Our team won in Wisconsin, and we will win today." 
The Belles number one sin­gles player Mary Cosgrove re­tired in the middle of her sin­gles match yesterday because of tendonitis her right arm. 
"I am a little upset" said Cos­grove. " I never had an injury in four years and I wish I could have finished my collegiate ca­reer with a victory." 
Cosgrove filled the number one position for two years with a remarkable record of 26-6, only losing two matches in her junior year. 
Freshman Kate Kozacik, the number four singles player. finished her season undefeated last night after Misner default­ed due to her infection. Kozacik also beat Misner in the Mid-West Invitational. 
"Kate will definitely be a con­tender for the number one po­sition next year." said Cos­grove. "But, Andrea Ayres will be hard to pass up because of her two years of experience playing number two doubles." 
~t'Q
~Q 

~­
~ ~,~ 

~ ,
~,;p~ ~t't'; 

::t~r 
'~ 

+
'-'a't, '~ 

.... 
page 30 . The Observer • COLLEGE BASKETBALL Wednesday, April27, 1994 
~ UConn's Donyell Marshall to enter NBA draft 
By THOMAS BECHER Associated Press 

STORRS, Conn.  
All-American Donyell Mar­ 
shall announced Tuesday he  
will pass up his senior year at  
Connecticut to make himself  
available for the NBA draft.  
"It was a dream I had as a  
youngster growing up," Mar­ 
shall said at a news conference  
at the school. "I just feel this is  
a very good opportunity I feel I  
can grab right now."  
Marshall, the Big East player  
of the year, met with coach Jim  
Calhoun on' Monday and de­ 
cided to put an end to specula­ 
tion about his future. He had  
until May 15 to make his deci­ 
sion.  
"It was a very tough decision  
to make and that's why it took  
so long," he said. "I feel that  
I'm ready to move on.''  
The 6-foot-9 Marshall, ex­ 
pected to be a very early pick in  
the June 29 NBA draft, led the  
Huskies to a 29-5 record last  
season, averaging 25.1 points  
per game, scoring a school­ 
record 853 points.  
His season ended on a sour  
note, however.  
~  
I  
l  
I  
t  
' 
r  
'  
I  
~  
'  
r- 
r  
I  
'  
f  
t  
I  


... 
Now Hiring Summer Help Must Be 18 
LADIES ::;:;:.;~...$·., You could 
~..v..:::--....~ ..........7..:·..: 

be the next Miss Hawaiian Tropic! Win cash & prizes every Friday in Jone. Call Lori for details. 
Against Florida in the NCAA East Regional semifinals, Mar­shall was fouled with 3.4 sec­

onds left and the game tied 57-57. A 76 percent free­throw shoot­er, Marshall missed both foul shots and the Huskies 
Marshall  lost in  over­ 
time  as  he  scored just  16  
points.  

Calhoun has said he did not believe Marshall's performance in the last game would affect his standing among NBA scouts. 
"I see no reason why he couldn't still be considered one of the best players in America," Calhoun said. 
"Donyell has got some special characteristics as a basketball player, but I think what he has inside him is even more special. He's going to take his talent and use it to the best of his abil­ity." 
In 34 games last season, Mar­shall shot 51.1 percent from the field, 31.1 percent from 3-point range, while averaging 8.9 rebounds. He set school records for field goals (306), free throws (200) and blocked shots (111). 

Staying for his senior year could have pushed Marshall closer to the school scoring record of 2,145 set by Chris 
A~OUT ~AI(INc;' 
Smith from 1989-92. Marshall scored 1,648 points in his three years. 
Marshall, of Reading, Pa., was the highest-acclaimed scholas­tic player to attend Connecticut and would be the first player in school history to turn pro be­fore graduating. 
A sociology major, he said he wants to complete his degree through an NBA education pro­gram. 
''I'm not leaving for the money. When you're a little kid, you don't think about making money, you just think about playing professional basket­ball," Marshall said. "It's just a decision I had to make for my­self." 

A DlffbJ2.b.NCb.? ;':~ f 
0 Are you a smgle, Catholic woman? .' 1 ~ ; 1 \ 0 Are you independent and full of life? 1 : ' ·~ \ \,\ 
I • 

0 Are you committed to a simple lifestyle? . ' 
-~?"': 

If you are, call Sr. Margaret Hoffelder (219-422-6675) to dream together about how your life and ours might join in service to the world's poor and disenfranchised. 
. 616TG..f2..6 Of 6 ~~ JO6G..PLJ Of TLJG.. T lJIQ.D OQ.DG..Q. Of 6 T fr2..ANCI6 
STUDENT 
APPRECIATION DAY!
. 

at The Hammes 
• 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" 
10% OFF* 
YOUR PURCHASES ON MOST ITEMS. WEDNESDAY APRIL 27th ONLY! 
REGISTER TO WIN FREE GIFTS! SEE STORE FR DETAILS 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS PLEASE PRESENT YOUR STUDENT J.D. AT THE TIME OF PURCHASE. *NOT APPLICABLE TO: TEXTBOOKS, FILM, FILM PROCESSING, HEALTH AND BEAUTY AIDS AND CLASS RINGS 
• 

~---~­
-~­

Wednesday, April 27, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 31 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-
11-IERE WERE A MJMBe R INEXORABLE. CHOSEN FoR A TOP­
SW(;PT-UP iN nJE HANK, YOU'VE BEEN 
OF CANDIDAIES,HANK,BVT VORTt)( OFTii£ SEC.R.ET £J(PERIMENT iN • AFIE::R INTtR\htWIN~ StV· DE:JA VU D£VIC£ CO-ED HOUSINEi. )'OUR ROOM 
ERAL OF THE WOMtN 
You'VE DATE-D, TwO WORDS
TliE E.N1lR£ ' MAl£ 11-IIS St:MEMSiiA~f-
WILL B€ A 'WO 1" 

KEPT COM IN~:! -UP A~IN
5P£LUNKER NAMED J6N CAV£RN
6AN6 15 TRANS· . AND AGAIN. PoRTED BACt< To Tlle FIRST 
SPE.LUNKER STRIP. tWD SO WE J?)IN HANK 
IN MONt< MAt.lQ'{l;, OFFICE MAN'{ YEARS 
IN 1\"\E. PASf .... 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'ti\..IIL£ '10\JR Dfo.O IS Tf..I<.ING \l"... LIES.' All. LIE':>! ROSP..L'iN 1-\0~E. PE.RI-\t>.PS ~5.6-l~N \MQ£ t<\£ YOV'P LI\C.E ltl EXPLAil-1 Wfli\T l:x:l nlM'" JIJS\ SO 1-lt>.PPENED TON\G\.\1. l'D GET I1\ TROOB\1 '5\-1£. ~its K\05! 
NOOt.. Of '1\li'I.T IS m!E! l 't{EtoiT 
SW.\G\-\T b StD! 

"Well, this guidebook Is worthless! It just says these people worshipped two gods: one who was all-knowing and one who was all-seeing -but they don't tell you which Is which, for crying out loud!" 
OF INTEREST 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
ttf\-. OF 'REtA).•Nb I.Jl1T\-\ F,a,£t-~os Ltv,,..,b A:r RoM.E. A.bA1N 1 -e,Ac.~ (.,j,"f'\-\ '"SAc.~ f>,T 1-\om<. HE. FoL.~< ·· ·· · · 13,ut.oNC. ~t> SVItl'l'lf'noNC.. 1 TH£-Soul... "'SAC.( WIT~ (IJRF~~,oo~~ ANO ~ARb\.IJa,t~,
1 
F~<. To 12,.,m p.,.., 1)A.,·, 1\o,.,..,., r.....,. 

~========~~~======~ 
ACROSS 35 See 42-Across 54 Went chop-chop?
36 1964 Berne best 1 Hazard seller (and a 57 After-dinner 9 Rumor 

hint to seven drink 14 Took to mean other answers 60 Breezing 15 Prevention in this puzzle) through dose? 39 Falls off 61 Lifeless 16 Lousy tips 40 D.J. Jazzy Jeff 62 Italian summit 17 Be maitre d' songs 63 Matter for the 


Federal Trade 18 "A Chorus Line" 41 Orders of the Commission
song court 19 Electrical unit 42 With 35-Across, 20 Couples's org. DOWN
a cleanser 

43 Lean 1 Butcher's cut of 21 High-pitched 
24 Moon valleys 44 So-so grade meat 27 One of the 45 Hears tell of 
2 Reply to a
Chaplins 47 Least prevalent 
knock 28 Fineness 
50 Comedian's 

3 East, in Berlin 29 Crash sound date 
4 School org. 31 Dire 51 Wallops 
5 Country music's 34 St. Paul's top 52 Writer Buruma Tennessee 
Plowboy 
6 Lacy dress ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE trimming 

7 Judge 
a Track-meet measure: Abbr. 25 Princess­3BJug 51 Relative of lotto 
9Amaze ("Don Carlos" 43 George 53 Born figure) 
Washington, 54 Son of Noah 10 From out of e.g.

26 Anwar of Egypt 55 Umberto of Italy 44 Harrah's, e.g. 
town 
28 Nuts 56 Be lucky in the 46 Representative lottery 11 Nice article 30 N.L. M.V.P., 

12 Diamonds 47 Style of type 57 Turn down1954 and 1965 13 Asian holiday 48 Twine fiber 58 Bit of advice31 Becomes gray14 U.S.N. rank 49 Flavorsome 59 Latin I verb 32 Intriguing group
20 Computer dot 33 Like Uriah Heep
22 One of Adlai's 
running mates 34 -list Get answers to any three clues 35 Tear by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­24 Beef roasts 37 Tine 5656 (75¢ each minute). 

-j 
·.....
DRUNK DRIVING DOESN'T JUST KILL DRUNK DRIVERS. 
Sit:lw!,,,'S E:-;po~<itu, kifled Oct. 1./ l!IS.ti ,,, S:.!5 I"''· 
!\exl time your friend in:o;istR on dri\'ing drunk. do whatPVf'l' it tak('!" ll• .... lui• l:in. BN·au5(' if he kill:' innO('l'nt pcuple, huw will ynu livl' with )'l•ur:->l'lr! 
UliWM·lr11i I!jIjjllWM·1@ J•ljli@l 
• 
Webster's Collegiate Dictionary defines ..• 
Zero= Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically 
Drink.: to take liquid into the mouth for swallowing; to take in or suck up; 
dependent, on certain medications, 
excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages 
ZER® 
or pregnant.

Drank: past of drink Drunk: having the faculties impaired by alcohol; drinking to the point of intoxication Intoxication: an abnormal state that is essentially a poisoning One = One drink per hour, which Vomit: an act or instance of disgorging the contents of the stomach through the mouth; sets the pace for moderate drinking. 
to spew forth; to eject violently or abundantly (i.e. when you drink, and drink, 
e:>N&
and drink until the flow of fluids reverse) AND Sensible: having, containing, or indicative of good sense or reason Responsible: able to answer for one's conduct and obligations; able to choose for 
Three = No more than three drinks 
•
oneself between right and wrong; see also Zero-One-Three 
per day, and never daily. 
THRSZ 
If you have any questions, please call the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 
-
SPORTS 
page 32 

Lacrosse playing for bid 
Regional rival MSU looks to derail Irish 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 

They've worked hard all sea­son long to be in this position. Now it's time for all that effort to pay ofT. 
The 16th ranked Notre Dame lacrosse team hosts Great Western Lacrosse League rival Michigan State Friday night at 
7:30 at Moose Krause Stadium. The winner will receive the Midwestern bid for the 12-team NCAA tournament. 
Midfielder Billy Ahmuty is confident that the Irish will be that team. 
"It's not only important that we win, we want to go into the tournament with some momen­tum," said Ahmuty. "We'd like to make a statement." 
So far that statement has been heard loud and clear throughout Notre Dame's con­ference. 
The Irish have swept through their first three league contests with relative ease, winning all three by a combined total of 57­
28. Howver, they are realistic about what to expect from the Spartans. 
"They are definitely going to going to be tougher than Ohio St," Colley. "They're pretty tough every year for us." 

Ahmuty agreed, citing the de­fense as a possible problem. 
"They're going to put a lot of pressure on us. They push it out pretty far. This should give us some easy goals though if they give us openings." 
The Irish look to have other advantages. 
First and foremost, to stop the Irish attack, you have to stop the Irish attackmen. 
jAil-time Notre Dame leading scorer Colley spearheads the Irish assault. He has caused innumerable match-up prob­lems for opposing defenses all season long. The tri-captain 
see LACROSSE I page 28 Wednesday, April27, 1994 

The Observer/Eric Auethling Brian Gilfillan and the Irish lacrosse team hope to garner their fourth NCAA bid in five years with a victory against regional power Michigan State. 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 

Freshman pitcher Greg Henebry looks to rejuvenate an Irish staff that has been inconsistent of late. 
Kent i01presses -in Irish infield 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 

It started out as an innocent play on words. Every time Notre Dame infielder Robbie Kent came to bat at home games at Frank Eck Stadium, the stadium's organist would play the theme from "Superman," in reference to the surname shared by the sophomore and Superman's alter ego, Clark. 
It sure proved to be a fitting tune. 
The versatile sophomore from Evansville, Indiana is indeed accomplishing feats akin to a superhero, as his blazing bat has proved to be a Thor's Hammer of sorts, smoking the ball to all fields and striking fear in the hearts of opposing pitchers . 
• After going a combined 2-for-4 in Monday night's doubleheader against Goshen College, 
Irish baseball to face toughest stretch 
Road to the NCMs starts tonight 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Writer 

For most Notre Dame stu­dents looking towards finals, the end is near. For the Irish baseball team, the important part of the season is just start­ing. 
The Irish (28-9) face Indiana State at Eck Stadium at 6:30 
p.m. tonight, Illinois away on Thursday, and Northern Iowa at home on Friday before tak­ing a week ofT for final exams. 
Pat Murphy is confident heading into the three games. 
"We've done well against the teams. We'll be fine. (Monday night) was a challenge to play better with the realization that we are a good ball club," said Murphy. 
After finals, the team plays 13 games in 12 days before the Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence tournament on May 18­
22. Although it may sound like a taxing schedule, Notre Dame has flourished in month of May in the last two years. 
Last year, the Irish went 20-4 in May including a 13-game win streak, a third straight MCC championship, and a trip to the NCAA East regional title game. 
Two years ago, Notre Dame went on a 18-3 run in May en route to its first trip to the NCAA Regional title game in recent years. 
The road to the NCAA tour­nament starts tonight as the Sycamores (23-19) come into Eck Stadium fresh ofT a victory against fifth-ranked Wichita State on Sunday and a double­header against St. Louis last 
see BASEBALL I page 22 
Hot bat of Perkins keys Irish 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 

Elizabeth Perkins would like to apologize to the owners of the red van she hit with a bright yellow softball Tuesday afternoon. 
Her car-damaging three-run blast gave the Notre Dame 
softball team a 4-1 extra­inning win over Michigan State in the first game of a double­header at Ivy Field. The Irish carried 


that momen-Perkins tum into game two, triumphing 2-0. 
But Perkins would like to as­sure you that she wasn't trying to hit the ball over the fence in the bottom of the ninth. 
"I wanted to hit the ball into a gap to move the runners along," Perkins said. "I just wanted to keep the rally going and not get an out." 
Instead, Perkins hit it out, driving a 2-0 pitch from Spar­tan hurler Stacey Smith over the left-center field wall, strik­ing a passing car. 
Earlier in the game, with the Irish trailing 1-0 in their last at-bat, Perkins started a one­out rally in the bottom of the seventh with a sharp double to left. Catcher Sara Hayes then smacked a single, driving Perkins in to tie the game. 
"Liz Perkins was just a huge factor at the plate today," Irish coach Liz Miller said. "Her double got us back in the game, and then she was able to win the game for us in her next at bat." 
Game-winning RBis are be­
• 








