


Thursday, September 8, 1994• Vol. XXVI No.9 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVINC NOTRE DAJ\,1E AND SAINT MARY'S 
Crow: Quilting opens doors to art and life 
By LESLIE FIELD 
News Writer 
Each piece of artwork is a door to be opened and is some­thing filled with strength and purpose. according to contem­porary quiltmaker Nancy Crow in a lecture at O'Laughlin Auditorium last night. 
"Doors represent a risk. You are always shaping a positive form against a negative back­ground." The world of art has opened many doors for Crow. After obtaining her MFA and BFA degrees from Ohio State University, Crow went on to produce two fabric collections, and countless works of art ranging from baskets and pot­tery to leather goods and quilts. 
While living in Brazil, Crow began weaving. Weaving was filled with emotion, she said. Crow even began dying her own yarn to obtain the colors she wanted to work with. The passion she put into her weav­ing can be seen in the vibrant colors and patterns of her work. 
During her two years in Brazil, Crow had her first son. Though she was extremely busy with him, she continued to work diligently on her weaving. "I never used my children as an excuse not to do my art work," Crow said. 
Crow later moved to Cambridge, Ohio with her son and husband. It was there that she began to think about mak­ing an income from her art work. With a new Singer sewing machine, she began to produce leather goods. They brought in $10,000 to $12,000 a year. She did this for several years until she discovered what would become her greatest passion: quilt making. 

At age 29, Crow decided to join several women at a Senior Citizen's quilt making group. She watched the ladies work and decided to try it. With only a few old books and several pieces of fabric, Crow began to create quilts as large as 100 inches by 100 inches. Her designs became increasingly intricate with time. Crow derived her patterns from nature. She took countless amounts of pictures. She used these to find interesting pat­terns that would eventually be filled with great symbolism. The quilt patterns ranged from images stemming from the cac­tus flowers to crosses. 
In 1979, Crow launched her career with a single quilt hang­ing displayed in an art museum as other museums all across the mid-west began recognizing her work as well. It was at this time that Crow and her family moved to a farm in Ohio. 
For the first few months Crow 
turned to photography to ease 
the transition into country life 
and get inspiration for future 
quilts. From these photos 
stemmed a number of quilt 
series, including The Bitter 
Sweet st~ries. One piece in this 
series sold for $12,000. 
Crow says her career has been one of great personal suc­cess. Through her work as a mother. wife and artist. Crow is certainly following in the Saint Mary's sesquicentennial theme of "honoring tradition while pioneering change." 


U.N. abortion compromise troubled 

The Obsersver/Nicky Batill 
A true kodak moment 
An NBC camera crew shoots footage of Sacred Heart for the open­ing sequence of this weekend's football game broadcast. 
By EDITH M. LEDERER 
Associated Press 
CAIRO. Egypt 
A group of countries joined the Vatican today in opposing a section on abortion in the U.N. population conference's 20­year plan for reining in world population growth. 
The announcement upset a compromise reached late Tuesday that would retain a section recommending govern­ment policies on abortion but declare that it shouldn't be pro­moted as family planning. 
Iran, Pakistan and Benin, previously Vatican allies, agreed to support the compro­mise. And the European Union, Norway and Sweden accepted the changes in the conference's central document as their "rock bottom" position. 
But when talks resumed this morning, delegates said seven countries and one U.S. territory -all with Roman Catholic majorities -announced sup­port for the Vatican position: Malta, Argentina, Honduras, Guatemala, Slovakia, Uruguay, Ecuador and Guam. a U.S. ter­ritory that has observer status at the United Nations and a separate delegation at the con­ference. 
The conference's plan of 
action does not require the blanket approval of all partici­pants, and the Vatican did not approve documents that came out of the two previous U.N. conferences in 1974 and 1984. 
But great effort is being made to reach compromise because the United Nations likes con­sensus when issuing long-term goals. 
The section under debate ­one paragraph in a 113-page plan -deals with unsafe abor­tion and motherhood. The com­promise would have retained sections urging governments to treat unsafe abortion as a major public health concern. 
It would acknowledge the legality of abortion in some countries and say women who have abortions should have access to treatment for medical complications, counseling and family planning to avoid repeat abortions. 
Namibian delegate Henning Melber said today as many as 20 countries now oppose that language. 
"There is absolutely no progress on the matter," he said. "For those who came to a consensus, this is very frustrat­ing." 
Unable to reach consensus, the negotiators broke up into informal groups to discuss the next step. 
Mary Ellen Glynn, spokes­
woman for the U.S. delegation, 
said 95 percent of those at the 
conference support the compro­
mise and it was unfortunate 
that a few were delaying 
progress on more important 
population issues. 
"We don't want this confer­ence to be on abortion and ·stringing it out does just that," 
she said. 
Melber also said Namibia and 
many other countries were los­
ing patience with the upending 
of a compromise that had been 
very difficult to reach. 
"How long will they be able to 
compromise, compromise, com­
promise?" he asked. 
The Vatican and Muslim 
nations have objected to parts 
of the plan on abortion or sex 
education. Other nations have 
complained that arguments 
over morality were taking 
attention from the real purpose 
of the conference -slowing the 
population explosion by giving 
power to women. 
In a key concession to the 
Vatican, the compromise on the 
abortion provision restored lan­
guage from the 1984 popula­
tion conference that abortion 
should never "be promoted as a 
method of family planning." 
The Holy See was the only 
delegation that spoke out 
against the language at 
Tuesday night's closed-door session. A Vatican official, speaking on condition of anonymity, opposed a line that said that abortions should be safe in cases where they are legal. 
But the Vatican official left open the possibility that it might accept the document once language on abortion in other sections are dealt with. 
The Vatican's stance has cre­ated such tension in the com­mittee session that on Tuesday, when the chairman asked for consensus and the delegate from the Holy See got up to refuse, groans and some boos broke out in the committee room, delegates said. 
After Monday morning's negotiating session, Melber, the Namibian delegate, said Guatemala opposed the refer­ence to legal abortion, saying it was a contradiction because there was no such thing as "legal robbery." 
Marta Casco, a delegate from Honduras, said her country would not accept the word "unsafe" but would like to keep the word abortion. 
The compromise eliminates a reference to "sexual health education," a plea to govern­ments to review their laws and policies on abortion, and a call to decriminalize abortion. 
ND Senate aims for year of fun 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE News Writer 
This year, the Notre Dame Student Senate aims to be both fun and efficient, according to Student Body President Dave Hungeling. 
At the first meeting of the Student Senate last night, Hungeling said they are attempting to "to try and run Student Senate as efficiently as possible." He said the key to a successful year is for members of the Senate to put forth "seri­ous effort" but to "bring a sense of humor" to meetings. 
Hungeling also said the Campus Life Council, which is comprised of hall rectors, fac­ulty, administrators, and stu­dents, will be "the most influ­ential body on campus" this year. 
The Senate hopes to "use this organization" to get its propos­als passed, said Hungeling. 
Hungeling commented about the Grateful Dead concert that was mentioned during his cam­paign with Matt Orsagh for Student Body President and Vice President. He spoke to the publicist of the band, who had him get in touch with the pro­moter, the person in charge of networking. programming, and advertising. 
According to Hungeling, the promoter questioned him about the size of the facility in which the band would be playing, the layout of the town, and the dis­tances of Notre Dame to Chicago and Indianapolis. 
"The promoter did not say 'no'," according to Hungeling. "He said they (the Grateful Dead) play nowhere there's not a five-star hotel. He said there was a 'slim to no chance'," referring to the possibility of the Grateful Dead playing at Notre Dame. 
Hungeling said that the Student Senate is "pursuing a more realistic avenue," which would be a benefit concert sponsored by a joint committee of the Student Senate, Student Union Board, Hall Presidents Council, and Student Activities. These groups, with the help of graduate student Katie Pamenter, have begun the ini­tial groundwork for the event although no performer has been named at this time, according to Hungeling. 
Other business discussed at the Student Senate meeting concerned the acquisition of "official corporate sponsors for Student Government," accord­ing to Tyler Farmer. Royal Crown Cola, Ford Motor Company Trucks, and Orvis Fishing Outfitters were the sponsors mentioned by Farmer, who said "we find them the only concrete exis­tence of God on this planet." Farmer also said they hoped for "free stuff" from these cor­porations. 
The Student Senate will meet 
every other Wednesday at 4:30 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room at LaFortune Student Center. 

~~-------~------~-----­
page 2 
• Inside Column 

Ladies and gentlemen, this is ... 
The first home football weekend of the year is nearly upon us (at last). The numerous traditions that make Notre Dame foot­ball what it is are about to be renewed. Another class is about to be indoctrinated 

to these traditions and to  Tim Sherman  
why "We are ND."  Assistant Sports Editor  
Many are well-known to  

any Saturday afternoon NBC viewer. The paint­ing of the helmets, the Irish Guard, the 'Play Like a Champion Today' sign -these have become synonymous with Irish football. 
However, there is at least one tradition that NBC has yet to capture and commercialize. Therefore, many freshman may not be aware o it, but it is a ritual that is very much ingrained into the fabric of Notre Dame home games. 
It is the fourth quarter. public service announcement of Sgt. Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State Police. 
For the 35th straight year, Sgt. McCarthy will provide the 59,075 fans with a brief reminder as to the dangers of drunk driving. To any new­comer to Notre Dame Stadium the question seems obvious. Why has something as simple as a little warning become such a big deal. 
I think one reason the announcements, or as I like to call them, McCarthyisms, are so popular is that they are just so creative and corny that you just have to take notice. 
Here's a sampling. -"Remember, twenty four cans of beer doesn't make a case in court." 
-"Drive like a musician ... C Sharp orB Flat." 
-"Those who have one for the road may have a policeman as a chaser." 
Second, one can only wonder how many more plays on words, puns, and blatantly bad jokes McCarthy can come up with. Each game the anticipation grows. Amazingly, Sgt. Tim never fails to disappoint. 
A third, and what I think the biggest factor in the immense popularity of McCarthyisms is the ritual the crowd goes through when the P A comes on. 
Be it an epic such as Miami or Florida St. or a yawner against Pitt or Purdue, when "Ladies and gentlemen, can I have your attention. This is Sergeant Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State Police" is heard, the stadium becomes abuzz with anticipation for a brief moment. Then, as if commanded by God, the entire stadium becomes deathly silent. No one really knows why, but no one has the courage to break the silence. 
I remember my first game last year. As a naive freshman, I didn't know any better so I continued to carry on a conversation as McCarthy spoke. Upon receiving the icy glares of the sophomores, I soon realized my error. I quickly shut up and listened. 
Immediately after the punchline comes the groan, and maybe a few genuine laughs. 
So freshman, if you happen to be down at the concession stand purchasing your souvenir Notre Dame sport mug in the fourth quarter, and you hear a massive groan from above, don't assume Michigan found the endzone, simply realize that Tim McCarthy has struck again. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Today's Staff  
News  Production  
Laura Ferguson  Heather Gibson  
Nancy Dunn  Tara Grieshop  
Sports  
Tom Schidt  Accent  
Viewpoint  Bevin Kovalik  
Suzy Fry  
Lab Tech  Graphics  
Michael Hungeling  Chris Mullins  
Michelle Di Re  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday oxcept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.. 
The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, September 8, 1994 
• World at a Glam.:e 
Operation Safe Haven moving Cuban refugees to Panama 
included a shoe repairman, a civil engi-
PANAMA CITY  Safe haven  neer, and a mother, Jacqueline Ochoa de  
Weary Cuban refugees settled into  Panama is letting 10,000 Cuban  La Rosa, who hugged her 9-year-old  
a tent camp beside the Panama Canal  refugees settle in a tent camp  daughter, Maria Cecilia.  "I am free of  
today after a U.S. airlift of thousands  beside the Panama Canal.  Cuba. I feel great!" Ochoa de La Rosa  

of rafters got under way. "Down with Fidel Castro!" young men in blue T-shirts and plastic sandals chanted late Tuesday as they got off a C-130 military transport plane. They were among the first 93 refugees to make the three-hour flight from the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Panama is letting 10,000 refugees stay temporarily as a "humanitarian gesture." It told the United States the Cubans must be relocated within six 
months. The Cubans will be flown in L----------------'~ arrivals said they were volunteers for the 
on U.S. military planes and chartered jetliners in the coming weeks to help ease crowding at the fast-filling camp set up at Guantanamo, the American outpost on Cuba's remote southeastern tip. More than 23,000 Cuban rafters picked up by the U.S. Coast Guard have been detained at Guantanamo Bay. They were among the more than 30,000 Cubans picked up since early August. The base also houses about 14,000 Haitian refugees. 
U.S. and Cuban diplomats are negotiating in New York over halting the flow of Cubans attempting risky raft trips to Florida. Washington has offered to boost legal immigration in return for Cuba stopping the exodus, but has rejected Cuba's demand to tie a deal to the easing of the U.S. trade embargo. The first arrivals in Panama 
Man makes plane landing on highway 
PERU, Ind. 
A Peru man made an emergency landing on U.S. 24 on Wednesday when the airplane he was flying ran out of gas. Beveridge Shinn, 73, was returning to the private airstrip on his farm when his single-engine plane ran out of gas, forcing him to land on the highway. No one was injured. "I thought I could make it back, but apparently I couldn't," Shinn said. "I made sure the highway was clear and then landed on the pavement." Shinn's said his landing gear lowered just before he touched down. The right side of the landing gear folded under, sending the plane into a ditch on the side of the road. There was minor damage to the landing gear, the front of the plane and the propeller. Shinn said he designed and built the plane about six years ago. He owns two other planes and has had a pilot's license since 1945. "I'll keep flying," he said. "Maybe not this plane for a while, but I'll keep fly­ing." 
Victims record their own murders on film 
MACHIAS, Maine 
A man who gunned down his neighbors while they unwittingly videotaped their own deaths was ordered Wednesday to pay $513,000 in civil penalties. Richard Uffelman of Machiasport is serving a life prison sentence for the double slayings of Michael and Florence Phillips, who were killed while taking an after-dinner walk on Aug. 29, 1989. The slayings, which culminated a long­running feud, were recorded on a video camera the Phillipses had set up in their kitchen to document alleged harassment by Uffelman. The videotape showed puffs of smoke coming from Uffelman's home as the Phillipses walked past. Later, Uffelman left his house with a gun and walked off-camera to an area where the bodies lay. Three more shots were heard. Uffelman left the house a second time with his son, then another shot was heard. 
•Indiana Weather • Natitm&l Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 8. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
...................................... 
C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
H L 

Atlanta 
Boston 
Ch1cago 
Columbus 
Denver 
Honolulu 
Houston 
Los Angeles 
•• •••••• ----...... -.............. 4 
said after getting off the first of two C­130 flights late Tuesday at Howard Air Force Base near Panama City, the capi­tal. A handful of U.S. servicemen looked on. One soldier watching the scene told another, "Who knows: If life had turned out different, that could be us." The Cubans will sleep on aluminum cots inside olive-green tents, set behind eight-foot-high cyclone fencing in a clearing surrounded by jungle-covered hills over­looking the Panama Canal. The first 
airlift, glad to be anywhere but Cuba. "Even in Cuba, anyone can get at least a little to eat. But I'm not leaving because of the economic conditions. I'm leaving because I want my freedom," said Raul Reyes Bravo. He said he was thankful he and nine others survived three perilous days at sea, paddling a car rooftop that had been turned upside down and lashed to inner-tubes. The arrival of the refugees has angered some Panamanian lawmakers, who say they were not consulted during new President Ernesto Perez Balladares' negotiations with Washington. "We were informed about this decision by the media," said Alberto Cigarruista, a deputy in the National Assembly. "This is a bad start on a new government." 
Golfing prosecutor catches car thief 
MERRILLVILLE, Ind. 
Lake County Deputy Prosecutor Phillip Benson knows what it means to go above and beyond the call of duty. Benson was playing a relaxing game of golf on Labor Day when he spotted a teen-ager running from a man yelling, "Stop, thiefl" Benson took off after the 14-year-old while his brother and a friend followed in their golf cart, chas­ing the youth about 1 V2 miles. "We were going through the lawns of the apartment complexes. People were giv­ing us funny looks," said golfing partner James Daubenheyer. "We wound up chasing the guy around one of the buildings a couple of times. We got within 20 feet of him and Phil jumped off the cart and brought him down. The guy was no match for Phil," Daubenheyer said. Police said the youth had tried to steal a 1991 Buick near the Broadmoor Country Club before the chase began. Benson said it was just part of the job. "And after I caught him, I still shot the best game of my life," he said, smiling. 
Busy bumblebees nearly burn home down 
PORTAGE, Ind. 
This time, bees did more than just ruin a nice picnic. Fire officials say a large hive of bees started a fire at the home of James and Cindy Jones. Family members noticed a burning smell about midnight Saturday, and while investigating, James Jones noticed the wall around the fuse box was warm. He called Northern Indiana Public Service Co., but by the time an employee arrived, the wall around the fuse box was smoking. The fire department was called just before 2:20 a.m. When fire­fighters arrived, they found a hive with about 300 bees between the drywall and brick near a fuse box. Damage from the fire was estimated at $500. Assistant Fire Chief Jeff Scheub said the bees' activity had worn down insula­tion on the electric wiring, causing a short in the wires. Repairs are pending. ''I'm glad it happened when some­one was home to take care of it," said Cindy Jones. "It could have been worse." 
82  69  Miami  89  77  
70  54  Minneapolis  74  50  
77  53  New Orleans  91  70  
74  51  New York  78  59  
91  57  Philadelphia  75  61  
97  77  Phoenix  104  83  
97  76  St. Louis  80  60  
91  71  Washing1on, O.C.  80  61  

Thursday, September 8, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 3 
From the writer and producer of THE COMMITMENTS and the director 
Black soldiers to be honored
of MY BEAUTIFUL LAUNDRETTE and DANGEROUS LIAISONS. 
eeEXCEPTIONALLY FUNNY!" 
HHILARIOUS! 
Stephen Frears rediscovers the essence of comedy! Exquisitely written, directed and acted!" 
·Jack M•tMws, NEW YORK NEWSOAY 
1: ~l~T!Jk~'.I)
TOAOKTO IHTERfrd.TlOHAt. FI..MF!STIYAL 
BEST ACTOR 
a.1'f.~IUOOA•IIIMI
( 
CtiCAGO IHTEANATIOIW. FI.IIFtSTIVAL 
The Highly Acclaimed New Comedy Directed by Stephen Frear& and written by Roddy Doyle 
IR~. ... ,.. ,... .,.. ,,._-,.. ,.,..,...... ·--~0) ,..•.~ 
By HARRY ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In this city of monuments, 360 commemorate episodes in American history. a quarter of those honoring events and par­ticipants in the Civil War. But not one honors the 178,000 "colored" soldiers who fought in that war. 
Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt pointed that out on Wednesday as he took part in the groundbreaking of an African American Civil War Memorial in one of Washington's oldest black neighborhoods. 
Not one, Babbitt said, "makes even a passing reference to the heroism and the role . . . of for­mer slaves, the victims of cen­turies of oppression and injus­tice." 
The memorial will be on a plaza created by construction of an underground subway stop in the· Shaw neighborhood, at lOth and U Street, N.W. The area is named after Col. Robert Gould Shaw, commander of the 54th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, which figured in the movie "Glory." 
WISH TO JOIN THE CATHOLIC CHURCH? 
LOOKING FORA PARISH SETTING, BUT DON'T WANT TO GO OFF CAMPUS? 
IS A WEEK DAY EVENING BETTER WITH YOUR SCHEDULE? 
Then, Sacred Heart Parish in the Crypt on campus is for you!!! 
For the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults. 
Call Sacred Heart Parish at 631-7508 
"It marks the beginning of a new thrust of tourism beyond the monuments and memorials on the Mall," said Frank Smith Jr., a member of the District of Columbia city council who was the driving force behind the memorial project. 
The memorial will be a semi­circular three foot-high curved stone inner wall holding stain­less steel plaques with the names of the black Union sol­diers and the 7,000 white offi­cers who led them. It was designed by architects Paul Devrouax Jr. and Edward Dunson Jr. 
It was a collaborative effort between the District of Columbia, the National Park Service and the Metro trans­portation system. 
This monument will be pri­marily a tourist attraction, Smith told about 400 people assembled under a tent at the site. 
A Family Heritage Center, at a middle school across the street, will be established to educate the public about blacks' role in the Civil War. It will house a library and a com­puterized database that will make it possible to trace some of the 3 million descendants of the servicemen. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• / •••CONSIDERATIONS 
THE CAIRO CONFERENCE AND MATTERS OF LIFE AND DEATH 
A conference sponsored by the United Nations is taking place these days in Cairo, Egypt. The two general topics for discussion are population control and economic development. The position which our government takes on policy issues related to these themes will be very influential. 
No one can deny the essential importance some of the topics that will be discussed in Cairo have, including the promotion of the rights ofwomen and the need to secure a minimally decent standard of living for all people. 
So iris disconcerting to see the United States and the Vatican appear to be sparring over a single if central consideration, namely, abortion and its use in particular as a means of birth control through "pregnancy retminarion." 
Because it is easy for the media to portray the Church as anachronistic and even anti-woman, the Church seems to be faring poorly. And some media and groups are making every effort to insure that this will be the case. 
It is often insinuated and sometimes stared clearly that rhe Church is allying itself with radical Arab governments in order to achieve its outmoded will and way. Islam is presented as a radical political terrorist option rather than a religion that shares some values with Christianiry as religions of the Book. 
Fourteen years ago, Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, the Archbishop of Chicago, stated that the right to life is the most basic right, and hence the Church's unchangeable position on abortion. But, he said and wrote, when any part of the seamless garment of life issues is weakened, the whole garment begins to unravel. 
Everyone knows that rhe Catholic Church opposes abortion because ir considers the act the taking of innocent life. 
But there are as many abortions in our country today as there were in 1980. Other countries around the world are discussing or approving new laws concerning abortion, and where the size of rhe family is limited, abortion can be the solution when ultrasound indicates that the sex of the fetus is female rather than male. 
Our country is one of only a handful of nations where people are executed, and the recently approved crime bill made fifty federal crimes capital offenses. We have seen disgusting scenes of people cheering as a hearse bearing the body ofan executed person passes by. 
Who knows that the Church acknowledges the right of the state to execute criminals but strongly and consistently opposes the application of the death penalty in this country? The bishops of the states where people are executed-usually poor people and usually members of minoriry groups and far too often people with limited mental abiliry-speak out against its use every rime it takes place. 
The Catholic bishops of those stares where assisted suicide has appeared on ballots as a referendum, such as Archbishop Thomas Murphy of Seattle, Washington, have spoken out strongly against this new life issue. So did the bishops of Michigan, during the assisted suicide debate which took place in the home state of Dr. Kevorkian. 
Who knows that the Church strongly and consistently opposes euthanasia? 
Human rights still play second fiddle to business opportunities. And in our world today, hundreds of homeless street children are killed each year in Brazil by squads hired by people who believe their presence on the streets is bad for business. Human rights violations -torture, extrajudicial executions, disappearances -are growing in Guatemala and El Salvador, after diminishing during rhe past five years when our government's policy which aided authoritarian regimes changed because of changing world circumstances. And in many other countries, including China, there has been negligible if any modification in policy or practice. 
Who knows that many local Churches, such as those in Chile and Poland, valiantly defended victims of human rights, often at great personal cost? 
People rightly claim that it is more difficult to oppose abortion if we are unwilling as a nation to 
provide for children who are born, but who enjoy very few opportunities to live a decent life. 
Have you read some of the beautiful and challenging documents of the Church that deal with the major social justice issues we face as a nation? Economic Justice for All, a 1976 pastoral letter on the economy was produced, in parr, with the assistance of Notre Dame faculry. It addresses concerns dealing with quality of life for all people, especially the poor. And the most recent statement from the United States Catholic Conference, issued on the occasion of Labor Day 1994, urges us to pursue welfare reform as a way ofpromoting economic justice rather than as a punishment for poor people whom we often seem to think live illegitimately from tax monies because they are lazy. Too many people on the welfare roles are single mothers who cannot care for their children and work full time at the same rime. 
And, before current undergraduate students at Notre Dame reach thirry, it is likely that the moment of natural death will more and more be determined by some physicians and by individuals rather than by God. 
Who knows that the Church strongly and consistently promotes the right to life from the moment of conception until the moment of natural death? 
Fifteen years ago, the compelling consistent ethic of life approach with its seamless garment image, was presented as a moral framework which most accurately and faithfully captures a truly Catholic position. Unfortunately, this framework remains just that. It has fallen upon deaf ears, even among Catholics. 
We see the seamless garment of life unraveling before our eyes at an alarming rare. 
Personally, I find it offensive when the Catholic Church is excoriated by persons who refuse to acknowledge our attempts to live as consistently as we can according to the urging and example of the God of the Living and the Lord ofLife. 
But the situation which I have outlined above is not a problem which has come about because of the party which is currently in power in Washington, even though some would proffer such a simple explanation. Rather, I believe this situation is the unfortunate <!-nd completely predictable continuation ofchanges in our society which have been underway for quire some time now. 
There are uses of mortal force which the Church holds as legitimate. Bur we are urged to respect every human life, including the lives offetuses, criminals, homeless children, and sick and old people. 
I hope and pray that our younger generations, and especially the generation of those who are undergraduates today, will be more honest and consistent in defending the basic consequences that flow from respect for the God oflife and from the simple commandment "Thou shalt nor kill." 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Sept. 1 0 5:00 p.m. The Most Rev. Daniel 
Bueschlein, C.S.C 
Sun. Sept. 4 8:00a.m. Rev. George Wiskerschein, C.S.C 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C 

11:45 a.m. Monsignor Robert Lynch 
---~--~-------------------~---------------------------------~----~----­
page 4 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 8, 1994 
Allegation rejected in sex discrimination suit 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A key allegation in a female CIA officer's sex discrimina­tion suit -that the spy agency improperly investigat­ed and reprimanded her for misconduct -was reviewed and rejected by two female Senate Intelligence Committee auditors last year, a congressional official said Wednesday. 
The conclusion reached by the committee's auditors undercuts one of the central accusations in the lawsuit, details of which were declas­sified Tuesday. 
The suit, filed under seal July 14 in federal court in Alexandria, Va., claims the CIA inspector general used intimidation and other improper tactics in investigat­ing the female officer. The charges against her included drunken behavior, excessive overtime claims and misuse of a government helicopter. 
She in turn claims the charges were made in retalia­tion for her exposing the mis­deeds of a male deputy and others on her staff. This hap­pened while she was the chief of a CIA station in Latin America. She asserts that the reprimand effectively ended her chances for advancement in the clandestine service, which is responsible for recruiting and handling agents abroad. 
Tim Carlsgaard, deputy staff director for the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the panel's two female audi­tors examined the methods used by the CIA inspector general and found that "fit­ting'' action was taken against the officer. The audi­tors did not interview wit­nesses nor attempt to reach a judgment on the broader question of sexism within the agency, Carlsgaard said. 
The female officer -desig­nated in her complaint by the pseudonym "Jane Doe Thompson" -claims her career was ruined by the CIA reprimand issued in February 1993. In 1989 she had become the first CIA chief of station in Latin America. 
At the request of the intelli­gence committee, CIA Director R. James Woolsey last year reviewed the 1992 investigation by the agency's inspector general and reaf­firmed its conclusion that the woman should be reprimand­ed, Carlsgaard said. 
The CIA has declined to comment publicly on the suit. 
The complaint, which was heavily censored by the CIA before its release Tuesday, paints a picture of an agency in which sexism is deeply ingrained and senior male officers get away with alco­hol-impaired work and sexual promiscuity. 
The accusations come at a difficult moment for the CIA, which is trying to strengthen its hiring and promotion of minorities and women at the same time it is managing a substantial overall cut in total employment and in its bud­get. Woolsey has publicly acknowledged the CIA culture is too male-dominated. 
Separate from the Thompson case, a large group of about 100 other female CIA case officers is alleging the agency's clandes­tine service has discriminated against women in promo­tions, country assignments and tasks. These women are threatening, but have not filed, a class-action suit. 
Thompson is seeking dam­ages against the CIA for sex discrimination and other vio­lations of her civil rights, as well as defamation of charac­ter and emotional distress. 
Campus Bible Study* 
(CBS) 
sponsored by N.D. Campus Ministry 
All Students Invited Interfaith Bible Stu.dy (Ecumenical) every·Tuesday starting Sept. 13, 1994. One hour meetings 7:00 to 8:00pm Conference Room Badin Hall Bring your own Bible and bring a friend. 
For information call Fr. AI D'Alonzo, CSC or Campus Ministry Office 631-5242 I 631-5955 

1P1-§g 
§ 
-

­



Young gang member buried 
PAUL A. DRISCOLL grandmother, Jannie Fields, let Associated Press out a piercing scream. "It's nothing but the devil CHICAGO who make people do evil," 
Robert Sandifer should have rasped Lorina Holman, intro­been starting sixth grade duced as Robert's great-grand­Wednesday, scampering across mother, in a rambling, Bible­the schoolyard with other 11-quoting oration that brought year-olds, lugging a backpack cries of "Praise God" and or chafing in a new shirt. "Amen" from the 150 mourn­
ers who remained in the frayed 
Instead he was buried, a theater seats after viewing the murder suspect who himself body. was shot to death when fellow The Rev. Willie James gang members got to him Campbell led mourners in the before police could. spiritual "By and By" as the 
Nicknamed "Yummy" coffin lid was slowly closed. because he loved cookies, Robert's mother, Lorina Robert was hunted by police for Sandifer, an admitted former three days last week for drug addict in whose custody allegedly firing a pistol into a authorities say the boy suffered cluster of people on Aug. 28. cigarette burns and other The shots killed a 14-year-old abuse, sat quietly through most girl, Shavon Dean, 10 yards of the service, her emotions from the front door of her masked behind dark glasses. South Side home. There were no uniformed 
Robert's body was found in a police on hand, no sign of the dank railroad underpass. He gang members who became was killed with two bullets to Robert's companions as his life the head. Two brothers, ages 14 and 16, are charged with his descended into violence. 
At Peter Van Vlissingen Elementary School, where Robert would have been a sixth grader, many of the children carrying book bags across the playground knew "Yummy." They said he craved attention and often got into fights. 
"He looked nervous, like somebody was chasing him," Norah said. "He was the kind of kid who didn't have love at home. If he did, he wouldn't have joined a gang." 
Robert's schoolmates said they know the fear he felt. 
"I feel scared, scared to go outside at night, sometimes scared to go to school," said Lawrence Brooks, 12, a seventh grader. 
Eleven-year-old Marcus Harris proclaimed defiantly that he's not worried he'll meet the same fate, '"Cause I ain't in no gang and I don't want to be in no gang." 
killing, allegedly planned to curtail the police attention Robert drew. 
Four hundred people crowd­ed into the Youth Center Church of God in Christ, a con­verted movie theater, to say goodbye. Across town, on the playground of the school Robert attended, classmates reflected on his death. 

"The only way to get out," 11-year-old Eric Norah said 
Jerusalem
sadly, "is to die." Short of 5 feet tall, not quite 
Spring 1995 70 pounds, Robert had 12 felony arrests and was prose­
INFORMATION MEETING cuted at least eight times in the past two years on charges 
Thursday, September 8, 1994
including robbery, car theft, arson and burglary. Twice con­
6:30P.M. victed, he received probation. 
245 DeBartolo In the church, Robert's body lay in a small coffin, clothed in 
"Who saw not Jerusalem In its glory 
has never seen a beautiful city."
a tan suit and brown tie, a 
Talmud
stuffed toy pig and teddy bear 
beside him. As mourners streamed by, his 
APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER 15, 1994 

-----~~--~ -~ -----~ --~ 
Thursday, September B The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

BEST WISHES FOR A SUCCESSFUL ACADEMIC YEAR! 
from the Office ofStudent Affairs 
Student Affairs Senior Staff Professor Patricia A O'Hara Vice President for Student Affairs 31 5 Main Building 631-7394 
Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs 31 5 Main Building 631-5550 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, CSC Assistant Vice President for Student Services 31 5 Main Building 631-5550 
Alcohol & Drug Education Mr. Mark Pogue Coordinator Mezzanine LaFortune Student Center 631-7970 . 
Career and Placement Services Ms. Kitty Arnold Director Lower Level, Hesburgh Library 631-5200 
Multicultural Student Affairs Ms. Iris Outlaw Director 210 LaFortune Student Center 631-6841 
Security Mr. Rex Rakow Director Security Building 631-5555 
Student Health Services Ms. Ann E. Thompson Director University Health Center 631-7497 Mr. William W. Kirk Assistant Vice President for Residence Life 31 5 Main Building 631-6144 
Ms. Ann Firth Assistant to the Vice President 31 5 Main Building 631-5550 
Campus Ministry Rev. Richard Warner, CSC Director Hesburgh Library Office 631-6536 
International Student Affairs Mr. Arthur Grubert Director 204 LaFortune Student Center 631-5243 
Residence Life Mr. Jeffrey Shoup Director 31 5 Main Building 631-5550 
Student Activities Mr. Joseph Cassidy Director 31 5 LaFortune Student Center 631-7308 
Student Residences Mr. Kevin Cannon Director 311 Main Building 631-5878 
University Counseling Center Dr. Patrick Utz Director University Health Center 631-7336 

-·· -----~---­
page 6 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 8, 1994 


[A.K.A. THE BJ-200e] 


I. had just polished off a crumb cake doughnut and a steamin' cup of Joe when the phone rang. A woman's vmce 
spoke, "Is this Nick Canon, Print Detective?" I answered in the affirmative. 
She told me she had a lot on her mind and even more on her desktop. A phone, a computer, a key­board, a monitor, a mouse pad, a scanner, and a personal printer that in her words, "was as big and slow as a dinosaur." 
"Not good~ I said. Then she got real serious, "I run a fast-paced small business. I'm looking for a printer that matches that description and I don't I like a lady with a sense 

of humor, so I told her I'd meet 
her at her favorite computer store in 20 minutes. I arrived, and immediately spotted her in the printer section. She looked the part. Successful. . Business-like. Except her eyes 
were a little glazed.
CHARACTER PROFILE: NAII1E: Canon BJ-200e HEIGHT: 6.8" WIDTH: JJ. 7" DEPTH 7.6" (Or ahout the ,tiu ofacomtnoll toa.tter.) 
"There are hundreds of 
have time to deal with a lot of hype. From the tone of her voice, I could tell she was running out of room and running out of patience. So I asked, 
THE BJ-200e PERSONAL PRINTER. 
• 
360 ()pi For LaJer-Quality Graphic.J AnJ Text • Pl'lizting Speed Ri11aLt 4ppm La,.1e1~1 

• 
LaJer-Quiet Performance: 42()B(A) 


"You know 'Little Swifty' (A.K.A The Canon®BJ~200e)?" She laughed, and said, "Maybe if you hum a few bars." 
printers m the naked city;' I said. She turned around, "Nick?" I nodded and said, "Let me introduce you to a 

• 
EPA Ener_qy Star Compliant, So It Saru On Energy CoJtd 

• 
Backer) By A 2-Jtar Limited Wtzrranty With "fn..ttant&cchan,qc" Pro_qram 


I 
friend of mine, Little Swifty." Her eyes lit up as we walked over to the BJ-200e. "It's so sleek, so compact", she whispered. I hi~ the print sample but­ton. Her eyes lit up again, and she continued to whisper, "It's so fast, and the output so crisp and 
clean." I didn't want to name drop, but I told her a couple of pros over at PC Digest found the BJ-200e to be "20% faster than its closest 
delivers clean, readable output at speeds comparable to those of a 
4ppm laser ... -..Jr;,:wJI 
~qJ!I;iJff!ii/:,:,... competitor, and . ing the best quality."« The only thing left was the price, and before she could even ask I told her, "It's a steal." 
Yep. She was happy all right. Come to think of it, so was I. As we parted I wrote down a number she could call if 
she had more questions, 1-800-848-4123. And then, I looked in her big beautiful eyes and told -her what I tell everyone, "Before you buy a printer, investigate." 

"NSTL /PC D~!(.•/ R.1tu~q.• &pt~rl V.>l8, #lill<m·h 1994. Bl7'E tfla_v, /994. PC lfiORL/JAf,ul'h, !994. 199-1_ C,~,'~"-L~t~'l'!"tr ~>:v.•!'~'":. &":· .L~'~"! ""~ lf'."!"~qi•l!trtltmJ;"w;J.·.•tl,Giuu•dt".·· ,l,'~':j/ 19!15 &tlhil/ Ao,.dl••lrt Mt,., ~11926:!6. In Gu1<u~l. m/1 (8tXI) 265-112/. 
• • .... ~-,.,....,.. ·--·~•-••••'"~"'"''""•• ~ o .. -•~ .... -• if• f1 .,.. I ,t. ~ 1 • . 
Thursday, September 8, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 


GO ACROSS CAMPUS UNDER A GROOVY TIE-DYED WOODSTUCK 
Class 
UMBRELLA. $13.00 + S&H. 
OR 
Weekly Special 
One 14-inch pizza up to 6 items $10 plus tax 


273-3890 

continued from page 11 
WANTED: EXERCISERS WHO ARE LOOKING FOR A FUN, ENERGETIC AEROBICS PRO­GRAM. JOIN US AT JAZZERCISE, GEORGETOWN SHOPPING CENTER. 277-0111. LESS THAN 10 MINS. FROM CAMPUS. STUDENT DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE. 
PRAY TO ST. JUDE, PATRON OF IMPOS­SIBLE CAUSES. 
$ave with CREDI-CALL. Charge long dis­tance phone calls to Visa/MC/Disc. .239/min entire USA. No surcharge. 800­364-7933 Ext 8699 
$5.50 HAIRCUT VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 The Ted Leo Fan Club 1st meeting: this Friday, 8pm 
Knights/ Ladies of Columbus OPEN HOUSE 
WTh F7-9 All Are Welcome! (we're next to the bookstore) 
THE PRODUCTION MANIFESTO I love The Observer.! love the people at The Observer. I love late nights at The Observer. I love burnt coffee. 
II you see news happening, call The ObserverI831·5323 

First Gathering! Snacks, Socializing, Elections Counseling Center, Rm. 300 TONIGHT 7:30p.m. 
Stepping Out with Friends A confidential setting to discuss and explore your feelings Thursday, 9/15 7:30p.m. 

P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0194 
Questions? Call us on the Q-Line: 
(219) 287-6665 
e-mail: blandford.2@nd.edu 
Tailgater Look for the Rainbow Flag! Food, Frivolity, Tunes! This Saturday 
10:30 a.m. 
Check out our homepage on MOSAIC! http://www .nd.edu/StudentLink 
s/jvanderw/glnd.htm 
We are the independent, not-for-profit organization serving the lesbian, gay and bisexual community ofthe University ofNotre Dame and St. Mary's College. 
~--~------~--~-­
--------~----~--­




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284:5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ..................... , ...... Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ... , ........... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ................................. l... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy .helios.nd.edu 
• I, FARRiNGTON 
A mad scientist lurks within 
He writes, Ozersky does. with a swaggering volubility; I bear the brunt of his offensiveness. Is the daily life of any writer much different? The path of a gradu­ate student, a dotted line between buxom undergrads and indifferent buildings, does not seem to intersect in the normal order of things with such a crea­ture as Ozersky. "Here I thought you were solemn and nondescript," a student told me in the class that I T.A. (or words to that effect). Good news! I had thought I was creepy and immo­bile, like the old man in the Werther's Original commercial. "Now I'm the grandfather," I murmur to myself, lumbering silently from lunch to library; but Ozersky writes on in his con­fident way. He really is a better man than I. 
It occurs to me that this cre­ation, Frankensteinian though it is, was made possible by my going to college. Some smart and honest students in one of my classes were expressing a sense of futility about the future recently. I know the feeling well; I spent no less than three years in Hoboken trying to con­vince an overworked Chinaman to overcook my french fries. Wasted time, wasted breath ­the years were without profit, and my fries were always dry, white, and cadaverous. But in those years, I spent my college education creating this mon­strous puppet, and I have no intention of whittling him down now. 
Reader, consider! The years of your immediate future will wash away what you are as surely as acid rain on a statue . 
What will you become? As a Notre Dame student, chances are that you will not waste away in poverty or squalor, but that isn't enough. Will your life be worn out in petty arguments and stifled lusts? Will your well-pay­ing job in an urban center ani­mate your dormant appetites, or drag you into Amishlike routine, 

Josh Ozersky 

and drown your youthful fire in a sand-pit of mutual funds and car payments, polyester tapes­tries and overpriced, overcooked spaghetti? Love is the morning and the evening star, but provi­dence hasn't necessarily made with the goods just yet, and you will be in need. 
I sympathize with you. My shifty eyes fix on you as I hurry past. caught up in the snares of my own fortunes. But what can I do about it? I have done all I could, in creating Ozersky, a stuffed figure filled up with style and testosterone, and meticu­lously crafted sentences. That was the advantage of my study­ing the liberal arts, and I can only recommend it to you. My mind shrinks daily, imploding with stupidity; but only that part of me stretched, half-against my will, by the easy yoke of a col­lege education allows me to cre­ate the better man I want to be. 
Franklin, in his Autobiography, wrote that it was not enough to be industrious; 
Thursday, September 8, 1994 


•


Sophomore efforts thwarted by du Lac 
Dear Editor: 
While we were campaigning last spring for Sophomore Class Office, we tried to find out what the students wanted most to enhance their school year. For some reason sex, alcohol, coed dorms, and the banishment of parietals topped everyone's list. We, as the elected Sophomore Class Officers, can give them, well... none of the above. But, we have tried to start the year off right by planning a "Tailgate" intended to kick-off the year with fun. Unfortunately, we have already run into problems. 
As many know, the University of Notre Dame has a reputa­tion for being conservative. While we, the Sophomore Class Officers, understand the need for a conservative admin­istration, we also believe that there is a line between reason· able policy and closed-minded administration. 
A recent example of the University's extreme cautiousness revolves around the issue of a Class of '97 "Tailgate" (officially referred to as a "Class Picnic"}. To fulfill our election plat­form, we started out the year planning a class function to be held prior to the Michigan game. As preparations grew, we followed the normal procedures for setting up a class activity. 
This includes requesting and receiving permission from an adviser in the Student Activities Office, ordering $500 worth of food, tables, and non-alcoholic beverages, locating a place to hold the event, designing posters, and creating a banner. As of Monday, Sept. 7, 1994, everything was underway except for final approval on our publicity poster. Instead of receiving the approval of our poster, we were told that the entire event had to be canceled. 
As of press time, we are not aware of the reasons why we are not allowed to have our "Tailgate." Baffled, we went so far as to read du Lac: 
No student, student organization, or University housing facility may organize or sponsor "tailgaters" on campus or on any adjacent fields or parking lots at any time for the purpose ofserving alcoholic beverages (page 22). 
Alcoholic beverages were not to be served! Thus, according 
to duLac, our "tailgate" would be permissible. 
It is our goal to make this an enjoyable year for the Sophomore Class, and we fear that future efforts to plan fun class activities might be thwarted by the extreme cautiousness of the administration. We apologize to the sophomores look­ing forward to this weekend's "tailgate" and promise to try to open the administration's mind to some fun events for the rest of the year. 
DEBORAH HELLMUTH 
BRIAN KlAUSNER 
JOHN KMETZ 
ANDREA SMITH 
Sophomor~ Class Officers 

that one had to be seen to be industrious. This is a cynical enough piece of advice, but it seems to be worth taking, in modified form. Nobody I know has much use for an industrious person, other than an object of resentment; but to make of the raw materials of your person something better or at least big­ger, and to feed this creature as it grows, is something better than hypocrisy, though it is (per­haps) something less than virtue. 
Meanwhile, Ozersky grows and breathes, his existence over­shadowing mine at every turn. He is fully developed, complete, and commanding; I am weak and partial, an unformed object, an unfilled vessel with murky prospects and an unquiet psy­che. I have at least made him, however: I preside at each of his appearances like the parent of any healthy, deformed child. He protects me with his verve, and I him with my anonymity. Between the two of us, we may make a complete human being yet. 
Go and do likewise, I suggest, humbly. Your natural personal­ity will suffocate you with its appetites and its hopeless desires, its indolence and its proud self-satisfaction. Put on the new man, as St. Paul says. If you can't write him, imagine him. You may not get the chance afterward; it's later than you think. 
How presumptuous of me, to say all this! I guess Ozersky had a hand in writing this page, after all. 
• DOONESBURY 
IAJ&LL, I 
ti/AN7W 
AC,VALITY all/CATION, 5/R... \ 

I WENT 70 A 5EV£5TEEM AOla:MYIN CAL./FORNIA, ANP fRANK£-Y, I WAS A tmtEUNP&ROfALL£N58}... 
\ 
r 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
I F16UR£1) IT1</A? TIM£ 7V 
tiEI..L, /.1K/3,

Pf.J5H MYSaF, RNI/ AN &UTE-, 
I'MTOTAt.I.-Y

H/6Ht-Y {l)MP&T/71'1!3 {l)/1.£613 
INT&FISTEIJ

f,(JHt/?&I COUWREAU.Y PUR­
!Nt&ARNIN6

5U/3 MY AOl!J&MIC. I~S / 
HOIAJ 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Today's today. Tomorrow, we may be ourselves gone down the drain of eternity." 

-Euripides 
-




ACCENT 
Thursday, September 8, 1994 page 9 

• Music Review 
Edie Brickell's picture perfect pop 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
During her four-year hiatus, Edie Brickell dropped the New Bohemians, moved to New York, and married Paul Simon. Since then, she has changed from the brash, young hipster we philosophized with in 1988 and danced around in her bra in 1990 into that eccentric En­glish teacher that we had dur­ing our freshman year in high school. 
With Picture Perfect Morn­ing, Brickell has created a myr­iad of bluesy, cajun-influenced vignettes, expressed through language that is concise yet still descriptive. 
Although the music stores should file this one under "Adult Contemporary," Brickell has not fallen into the trap of bland Nutrasweet that plagues so many other artists during their "maturation" stage. Ironically enough, this occur­rence is most common when a lead singer leaves the band and pursues a solo project. 
Beneath the free-flowing, slow-groove oriented music (Picture Perfect Morning should be a prescription cure for suf­ferers of insomnia), Brickell ra­diates a simple brilliance, giv­ing off a vibe of hazy content. 
The...:;picy flavor of Picture Perfect Morning no doubt re­flects the fact that the album was recorded in New Orleans. A host of guest musicians show up on each song, many of them well-distinguished, giving the album a polished effect that a stable band cannot easily muster. 
"Tomorrow Comes," the al­bum's first track, epitomizes Brickell's new sound in the first 30 seconds. With soulful back­ground vocals supporting every sound she makes, Brickell hits high and sharp notes quickly, staking her own claim as a truly unique vocalist. Art Neville appears and does a fan­tastic job with the organ. 
With an attitude of cackling flippancy. Brickell dismisses all her worries during "In the Bath." Better than any other song on Picture Perfect Morn­ing, "In the Bath" captures her careless and oblivious ideals. A light, folksy tone transforms the spotless lyrics ("In a wash of memory/Everything is coming clean") to a raw, earthy feeling. 
A tale of wanting the grass on the other side, "Green," uti­lizes an echo chamber to add drama, as well as both Brickell and Simon, on acoustic guitar to heighten the chords. 
Meanwhile, Brickell murmurs about how badly she wants to be like her neighbors. The song's turtle pace and dreamy violins combine to evoke an almost eerie feel of unintended obsession. 
The strongest track on the album is the Bonnie Raitt-iHflu­enced "Another Woman's Dream." Old-fashioned rock-n­roll hooks are present through­out the strut-ridden song, while Brickell's vocals fit snugly in between jangling percussion and an upbeat rhythm section. 
An early Motown style is adopted on the doo-wop in­fested "Good Times." While Brickell's songs throughout her career have focused on life, love, and the pursuit of happi­ness. Mostly on life and the pur­suit of happiness. this short story is a quirky love song by Edie, that shy girl in the corner. · 
After a resounding perfor­mance during which she adapts nicely to the new format, she is completely upstaged by some­one a bit more experienced in this department, Barry White. He makes a 20-second cameo and his low baritone takes over. 
Other high points of Picture Perfect Morning include: "Stay Awhile," a quasi-instrumental featuring New Orleans staple Dr. John on piano; "Hard Times" is Brickell's funkiest song on the album; and the title track showcases Brickell's voice better than any other song on Picture Perfect Morning. 

Although the album was re­leased a bit too late to highlight the messy, caramel-coated pic­nics and warm, sweaty naps of this summer, Picture Perfect .. Morning will undoubtedly be­come a compilation of soothing anthems for laziness in the sea­sons to come. 


Rol7•s Rating: 
3 1/2 out of.5 stars 
Picture Pefkct Morning
Edie Brickell 
Geffen Records 


Local artist captures Notre Dame legacy 
By MAIT FOLEY 
Accem Writer 
In 1967, Notre Dame's sports informa­tion director, Roger Valdiserri, commis­sioned Jim Wainwright, a local artist, to design a football program cover for the Michigan State and Notre Dame game. 
The cover featured Rocky Bleier. Ara Parseghian, and Duffy Daugherty, along with faces from the artist's own bridge club as members of the crowd. Thus began a wonderful relationship between the University and an extremely talented artist. 
Since that first program cover in 1967, Wainwright has done more than 80 pro­gram covers, media guide covers, and special works depicting various aspects of the Notre Dame tradition. 
Left in the wake of his efforts is a huge body of exceptional work, not to mention the massive amount of care and dedica­tion that went into its production, according to Wainwright. 
The paintings themselves speak vol­umes about Notre Dame's tradition on the tradition of Notre Dame's football pro­gram, and has grown to know many of the people he has immortalized in art, including Gerry Faust, Dan Devine, and Lou Holtz. 

"There's no tradition like Notre Dame," Wainwright added. 
His current project for Notre Dame is painting the Irish All-Americans in a series of seven posters. The first two, quarterbacks and linebackers, have al­ready been released, and upcoming posters will feature the Irish running backs, the offensive line, the defensive line, the defensive backs, and the kickers. 
Wainwright plans to be fully retired from his business by the end of October. He is not slowing down, though. He will now devote his full time efforts to Notre Dame. 
For the first time in several years, he will paint all of the program covers for the home games and he will continue his streak of media guide covers, along with other special projects that are certain to • crop up. 

"I'll be going from vocation to avoca-PhotocourtesyotJimWainwnght tion," Wainwright said. 
the football field and Wainwright's Wainwright's talent is featured on the cover of the 1994 Notre Dame Football Media If you would like to see some of dedication to quality. Included in his Guide, one of over 80 program covers depicting Notre Dame football traditions. Wainwright's exceptional work, or even work are some very, very famous pic-------------------------------meet the artist, the time for action is now. 
tures like "100 years of Notre Dame Football", "A Portrait of Courage" depicting the life journey of for­mer Irish star Rocky Bleier, and the "Tradition of Excellence" poster which is the biggest selling Notre Dame poster of all time. 
Behind the posters, according to Wainwright, lie the stories of long hours and hard work that pro­duced them. Amazingly, all of Wainwright's work for Notre Dame has been done after hours in the midst of his successful advertising art business. 
The "100 Years" poster took six hundred hours to complete, and in the process it had to be repainted to include Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown and cor­rect a misspelling of "Consensus" in the upper left hand corner of the painting. 
An average program cover takes approximately forty to sixty hours to complete, and the special works take even longer than that, the artist explained. 
According to Jim Wainwright, all of this is a prod­uct of his "love for Notre Dame". Since he started in the late 60's, Wainwright has become caught up in 
In 1988 due to a move to a new office, Wainwright ­sold most of his original color proofs to Coach's Sports Bar. In the intervening 6 years, the collection has grown to include some of Wainwright's later works. All in all, the collection now numbers around 
fifty works of art. ­
To meet the man who produced those works, sim­ply head to The Bookstore around lunch time on Friday. He will be there signing his posters and meeting some of the people who have been touched by his work. 
page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 8, 1994 
-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES 
ASAP I need a dependable BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS Need tix: 5 BYU G.A'S; 4 STAN­SELL MARRIED STUDENT TICK­NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. weekend sitter for a 1 year old. CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 FORD G.A'S; 2 STANFORD ETS PLEASE CALL CHRISSY x3415 References a plus. Call 232-5261 STUD.--CALL JOE @X2765 BOOKLETS OR MICHIGAN leave a message. SMC CLASS RING ONLY. OVER 170 BO Two married student booklets for 
PETITE W/ DIAMOND NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S. BETH 271 19 98 sale: call 273-2889. LIMPOPO IS COMING HELP WANTED: 10KGOLD X2965. ARE YOU READY???? ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER MAKE AN OFFER WANT TO BECOME RICH? SELL NEED 1 PURDUE stu. or GA tick­FRIDAY'S THE DAY ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS 273-6205 Need 2 Ml stud. tix. Call Monica ME YOUR 2 MICH. TXS. ITS ONLY et.Call BRAD x1999. 
NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND 813-254-3716 A GAME. KEVIN 273-8673 ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY 1985 Nissan Sentra, auto, air; 6 Mich GA's for sale !II MORRIS, INC. NEWS SERVICES, AM/FM cass; call631-7494 I need 2 tickets to the Stanford, MICHIGAN TICKETS! 2 FSU tix and air fair tix!l! CUSTOM SCREENPRINTING 232-3205 OR 288-9361. BYU or Purdue game. Call MICHIGAN TICKETS! call x1456 High Quality, Ts, Sweatshirts, etc. Sale: 2 upholstered chairs-$35 & Rosanna x3577 '94 GRAD NEEDS TWO STUDENT GREAT PRICES! WANTED: RESPONSIBLE, KID­$20. 11amp-$15. 1-5435. 8-5pm. TIX. CALL JOHN @ 273-8553 Mich & FSU GA's!l!l 
Contact Katie Adams x2845 LOVING STUDENT WITH CAR TO Need 4 GA's four Purdue game, call Marcus x1244 BABYSIT 2 CHILDREN AGES 4 &6 HEY FRESHMAN ! ! ! together please for family. Chris NEED 2-4 MICH. GA'S-CALL IN MY HOME. 2-3 DAYS PER WORD PROCESSOR x1955 PHIL AT X3520. I NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S BADLY 
USED TEXTS CHEAP!!II WEEK FROM 2-6. PLEASE CALL GREAT CONDITION PARENTS FLYING IN FROM NY Buy & sell used books at the only 277-5786. FOR SALE -CHEAP! Need two Mich GAs. Will pay $$. MIKE X42210 hip place in town 10-6M-S/9-3Sun $125 OBO Wanted: 2 GA's for Navy game!! Call Sharkey x2652. PANDORA'S BOOKS SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring for JEFF 4-1576 Please call Amy 4-1330. WANTED: MICHIGAN TICKETS NO ave & Howard St 233-2342 many positions for winter quarter. NEED 3 BYU GA TIX & 1 STUD WILL BEAT OTHERS BEST 
Over 15,000 openings! For more CHAIRS, BIKE, APPLE IIC W/ BYU call 1722 if you have them OFFER. WILLING TO TRADE information call: (206)634-0469 ext. PRINTER, MODEM ECT.272-6306 NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH. OTHER HOME GA'S. CALL V55841 DESPERATE, WILL PAY$$$ Will trade 2 BYU GAs for 2 MICH KYLE AT x1478.
ILOST & FOUND I 
Student tickets for sale. 272-2320 CALL JASON, 272-4297 GAs. If not, will buy 2 MICH GAs. 
National Park Jobs -Over 25,000 day: 234-7553 nile: 234-3873 NEED TWO MICHIGAN GA'S. PLEASE HELP !!! GOLD openings! (including hotel staff, tour Powerhouse Gym V.P. Membership STANFORD GA'S NEED 4. X2254. WOMEN'S SEIKO WATCH LOST guides, etc.) Benefits & bonuses! Transfer . 20 months at a special MATT 257-0564 I NEED 2 Purdue GAs II MONDAY SEPTEMBER 5TH­Apply now for best positions. Call: low price. Call Pete at 1-4026. Will pay big $$$ I NEED MICHIGAN GA'S POSSIBLY BfT GALVIN AND BP. 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841 NEEDED: MICHIGAN GA's $$$$$ Please call Amy 4-3427 CALL RYAN: 271-5685 REWARD. CALL KELLEY X3427. Steve Crowley-287-6380 -­
TICKETS $$$$
SPRING BREAK '95-SELL TRIPS, I NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S. ALSO $$$$$REWARD$$$$$ EARN CASH & GO FREE!II NEED BYU GA'S, AND BYU LOOKING FOR SOME FALL I'm desperate. I lost my friend's Student Travel Services is now hir­NEED 2 GA'S FOR ALL GAMES. Desperately Need STUD'S. CALL MIKE X-3767. BREAK CASH? black denim football. Last seen at ing campus representatives. Lowest CALL BOB 219-232-5297. 4 NAVY Tickets!!! NEED 2 TIX FOR NO-MICH. Soldier Field next to port-o-potties rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Day1ona $ $ $ $ I NEED STANFORD TICKETS. GAME. CALL AIMEE AT 277-0715. on Saturday. Any info-call Pavis at and Panama City Beach. Call1-I NEED TIX FOR MICHIGAN AND Please Call Daniella PLEASE!! $$$$ 233-5130. 800-648-4849. TALLAHASSEE. I AM VERY DES­at x2537 X3640AARON 
PERATE. CALL CHRISTIAN AT $$Need MICH. TIX$$ Found I Ill HELP! My uncle will lose all respect 287-6743. WILL PAY BIG$. I need michigan and stanford tick­CALL MIKE 289 6988 Brown/Tan reading glasses wed. ai for me, if I don't score a bunch of ets. Call chris at237-9817 NEED 2 OR 3 STANFORD GAs the Observer(3rd floor La fortune) Stanford/NO tickets. If you can help NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & CALL PATRICK 273-9760 I WILL BUY YOUR STD. TIX. Please Call The Observer or come please call, money is no object. STANFORD! X2174. Alum from East seeks Michigan Tix. BOOKLET. CALL 233-5130. up to 3rd floor La Fortune to the Bob Ricci, Has BYU and Air Force GAs to office. 201-239-2222 or 908-289-0199. $$$1 NEED MICHIGAN TIX. GA OR trade and $$$ to spend. Call Dave I NEED GA TIX TO MICH. I DESPERATELY NEED Ml TIX!I 
WANTED 
STUD. CALL KAREN X4290. 201-222-1845 ASAP PLEASE CALL 4-2447 X 4-3881 Student Travel Sales! Sunchase Tours is seeking ambitious sales A LOCAL BUSINESSMAN NEEDS Need 1 Mich. stud. ticket. 3 MICH ST TICKETS FOR SALE­WANTED 3 GA EITHER NO VS 
reps to promote ski and beach trips 2 PAIRS OF GA SEASON TICK­Jim 277-3953 BEST OFFER 289-9420 PUR, STAN, BYU CALL COL215­MORE FUN THAN A JOB OUGHT for Christmas and Spring Break! ETS. 272-7233. 355-7131 TO BEl Earn cash and free trips. Call DESPERATELY SEEKING GAs for FOR SALE: 4 Married Student JOIN THE TEAM OF THE today: 1-800-SUNCHASE. *BIG BARGAIN -HURRY* PURDUE and NAVY. PLEASE Ticket Booklets (no I.D.'s required)! HELP!! I 
... BUSIEST RESTAURANT IN WILL TRADE MY 6 AF GA OR 4 HELP-$$$. Call Alisa -634-4355. Call Dare!@ 291-3818 or Need Michigan & Stanford tix. MICHIANAI FULL-TIME AND WANTED: TIX FOR PURDUE AF. PLUS 2 NAVY OR USC FOR Larry@ 254-9174 Call Alan@ x1663 PART-TIME, AM/PM SPOTS GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S. MY FRIENDS WILL PAY ANY­OPEN FOR: JILL 273-6942 *288-1186* THING FOR MICHIGAN STUD. OR MICH TIX 4 SALE GA's & STUD NEED MICH STUD OR GA'S 
• 
LINE COOKS GATIXI!! Call BRIAN 1351 CALL TED X-3054 $$$ 

•SERVERS 
Someone with experience dry I NEED NO SEASON & ALL CALL 272-8606 

• 
PREP COOKS walling and taping needed to help GAMES GA. WILL PAY TOP$$$$. Stud Tix Book 4 Sate x1355 NEED STUD BOOKS AND GA 

• 
BARTENDERS with remodelling a basement. WILL ALSO TRADE MY 6 OR 4 Wanted: 4 GA's for Michigan FOR ALL GAMES 

• 
DISHWASHERS Probably a total of 20 to 40 hours FOR YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S. game. Mich Tix 4 Sale CHEAP x1304 TONY 272 -6621 TOP PAY AND GREAT BENEFITS over several weeks. Will pay $. BE SURE TO CALL. 288-1186. call 288-2589 INCLUDING FLEXIBLE HOURS. IF Call233-3168. OPPORTUNITY. 2 entire Marr. Stu. I NEED MICH. STUDS. YOU'RE A WINNER...WHAT ARE CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD booklets for sale. KEVIN 271-7428 YOU WAITING FOR. APPLY IN ST. JUDE, WANT 2-4 SEASON OR NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­Call 273-8938, or leave message PERSON. EVERYONE LOOKS FOR RENT INDIVIDUAL GA TIX. ets to the Stanford game. Alum I HAVE ALL HOME TIX. WILL FORWARD TO 312-404-4903 DAN. REALLY wants to return to campus Will trade 2 Purdue tics for 2 SELL OR TRADE FOR FSU. FRIDAY'S ROOMMATE needed. Female pre!. with family. Student tix ok. Price Stanford or Navy. Bob-277-2760. CALL TONY X3558 4730 N. GRAPE ROAD Oak Hill Condo. Own room & bath. I NEED GA'S FOR MICHIGAN, negotiable. Call collect alter 6 pm Will trade 2 BYU tics for 2 MISHAWAKA Call 273-4485. PURDUE, STANFORD, BYU & (516) 499-5009. Stanford or Navy. Bob at 277-PLEASE PLEASE PLEASEI!!!II! 


EEO FSU. MIKE 289-3203. 2760. My Little Brother is Flying in HAVE 3 BEDROOMS FOR RENT I need Mich stu, will trade my for the Michigan Game and NEAR NO FOR FOOTBALL AND WANTED: OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. Stanford or pay$. Ruth X2359 HELP! I need PARENTS' WKEND Desperately Needs a Ticket 
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING SPECIAL EVENTS. $50 A NITE. 4 TOGETHER. CALL Tix! Kathy x4850 (Stud. or GA) BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS & CONT. BREAKFAST. 800-922-2327 JANET. NEED 2 STANFORD TIX ••••call Theresa x4708*••• GO FREE! BEST TRIPS & 219-272-9260. -CHRISTl X4899 4 Sale: Std Tix Booklet. 273-0673. PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, NO VS FSU NOV. 12, CITRUS JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, BOWL Help!! Need MICH STD TIX Will buy Student Ticket Booklets for RESUME EXPERIENCE! 1-800-NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED FAN NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE I NEED 2 PURDUE GAs Molly 271-9364 outrageous amounts. Call sean at 678-63861 BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO CALL 407-246-1879. MAY CALL call Kim 271-2859 x11 01. Any section. 
NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE COLLECT. NEED STANFORD GA's BADLY. PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219-I NEED 2 GA'S TO THE B.C. HAVE 2 NAVY TIX. NO FAMILY REUNION needs TAKING PHYSICAL INVENTO­773-2034 ALUMNI DESPERATELY NEEDS GAME & 1 STUDENT TICKET Will trade or buy. Bryan x1190 Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call RIES. WORK AROUND YOUR TIX FORUM GAME. WILL PAY TO ANY HOME GAME. 517-332-4719. SCHEDULE. DAYS AND/OR BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. $$$AND/OR TRADE AF OR NAVY CALL CHRISTINE x4850 WEEKENDS. $5.25 PER HOUR PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC TIX. CALL DAN (319) 323-7152 NEED Stud Tix for MICH. Will pay Needed: Ticket, preferably GA, for CALL 272-0408 CLANCY INVEN­EVENTS. AFTER 5. Need 1 stud or GA for PERDU $40. Also need GA's Call Jared first home game. My mother will be TORY SERVICES 219-291-7153. $$Please call JULIE x2534$$ 288-8141 eternally grateful. Call 4-41 85. 
NEED MICHIGAN STD. OR GA'S. RESORT JOBS-Earn to $12/hr. + BED & BREAKFAST CALL 233-5130. stu. tix. book for sale or separate! For Sale: 2 Mich stud tix or 2 stud tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, & 291-2258. best offer! call charles at x1387 tix booklets. Best offer. Call Amy Need 4 Stanford GA's! more. Tropical & Mountain destina­I WILL BUY ANY HOME GAMES. 289-9018 Willing to pay $$$$ tions worldwide. Call (206)632-0150 EDISON PARK, 3 BEDROOM 233-5130. $$1 NEED 2 GA'S OR STUD.$$ Call Suzy 4-3427 ext. R55841 HOUSE. 2 CAR GARAGE. ON TIX FOR MICHIGAN! X 1679 . STUDENT AND GAS NEEDED 
PYLE ABOUT 1.25 MILE EAST OF I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. CALL MIKE FOR BYU AND GAS FOR AF. WANTED: 2 ND-MICH TIX. CALL WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST CAMPUS $675 MONTH 282-1014 272-6551 PLEASE! CALL JEANNE AT COLLECT PAUL THAL, GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY I NEED 1 OR 2 MICH. GA'S. X2478. BUS: 810-477-0800, X2365 SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHI­DAD FLYING FROM LA AND WILL OR HOME: 810-349-5543. MOTE SPRING BREAK TO RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS GAN STUDENT TICKETS PAY YOUR PRICE JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, PROPERTIES. 272-6306 CALL SEAN AT 634-1101 CALL JUSTIN AT 273-5917 NEEDED-2 STANFORD GA'S I need one Michigan ticket. Please FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE WILL TRADE CAR OR ORGANS IF CALL JENNY 4-4021 help me and call John at277-5720. TRAVEUCOMMISSIONSI SUN ROOMMATE NEEDED. 3 bedroom NECESSARY. DESPARATELY NEEDED: SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 1 bath and kitchen. CLOSE TO STUDENT OR GA'S FOR SELLING MICHIGAN GA'S AND 
COMPUS 127 E. pendel. STANFORD, PURDUE, NAVY WANTED: NO VS MICH TICKET. BOOKLETS. LUIS 273-1528 
$170+UTIL. Call219-271-7588 Angry airmen need as many Air AND A.F.. CALL RACH 233-1761 NO ALUM WILL BUY FROM YOU PART-TIME NANNY NEEDED to Force GA's as possible. Serve your OR SWAP TWO STANFORD care for 1 & 4 yr. old during week­country. Call x4816. NEED 2 MICHIGAN TICKETS TICKETS. CALL (708)864-0930. 2 ROLLING STONES/LENNY 

FOR SALE

days. 10 mi S. of NO--own trans­ST. or GA's -I have lots of $ to MY BROTHER FROM COLORADO KRAVITZ (@ MSU) TIX 4 SALE. portation needed. 9:30 to blow on this game. WOULD LOVE TO SEE MICH NEED RIDE THERE. CALL JEN 
4:30 or any regular block of time NEW LAPTOP COMPUTERS­4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED. Call Jeff at 232-8337 GAME! X2875. during those hrs. Can be flexible. CHEAP! *486DX2150,4MB CALL X2875 (NICKY) Please call 299-D051. RAM,COLOR,PCMCIA, SOFT­NEED 1 STUD. TKT FOR MICHI­
WARE AND MORE *486DX GAN GAME NEED LOTS OF BYU TIX HAVE FOR SALE 2 MARRIED STD TIX NEED RIDE TO PURDUE! Any 33,8MB RAM,ACTIVE MATRIX NEED 2 MICH. GA TIX. CALL STEPHANIE 4-4946 STANFORD$ PURDUE TIX. BOOKLETS. 232 4827. Weekend Will Pay For Gas. Call COLOR, PCMCIA, SOFTWARE CALL BILL AT 233-5719 CALL ERIN 4015. Jasmin 233-4960 AND MORE STD TIX FOR SALE. CALL 277-NEED MICH GA'S CALL MATT AT 
CALL CHRIS @ 273-2070 I NEED 6+ STUDENT TICKETS 7876 AFTER 5PM. Have 2 GA's for Michigan X2153 NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S OR STU­FOR THE 9/24 PURDUE GAME. Best Offer. 273-4933 DENTS. CALL JOE AT 4-2712 RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR CALL KEVIN @273-8699 NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS, GA I HAVE A USC GA 
r-
FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO OR STUDENT. CALL JOE AT Looking to trade 2 Navy GA's (THE LAST GAMEl) Local age group swim team seeks SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­WANTED: 4-2712 for 2 Stanford GA's. Kristen X4838 I WANT A MICH TICKET!! assistant coaches for afternoon ERY CALL: 2-4 GA Purdue Tickets. $100 per or (715)341-0627. ERICA 273-4599 
and/or evening hours various days COLLEGIATE RENTALS, ticket. 515-965-0512 WANTED!! Chicago Alums need of the week. Call 289-SWIM. 272-5959. Two Student Ticket Books and 2 HAVE 2 NAVY GA's to trade for 2 NEED 2 TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN 
Wanted: 4 Mich GAs. Desperate Michigan, BC and Stanford GAs. STANGA's +CASH. Also NEED 1 GAME. ANY KIND. BIG $! CALL NEEDED!! A ride to CLEVELAND 87 HONDA CIVIC Wagon, 4WDr., Alum promised boss tixl Career in Will pay$$$. Call (312)404-5502 FSU GA. BIG $$$$$$$ DAVE@ 4-1689 on SEPT 16 will share gas 4-2384 Manual ($3800). Call 631-5411 jeopardy. Call Brian 815-568-6977. (nights). Ask for Dina or Rob. Call Dave #3494 -·­

see CLASS I page 11 
... 
----------------~--------------------------------~------,~--~------------------------------~--------------------~ 
Thursday, September 8, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Need MICHIGAN tix. Will trade BYU or AIR­NEED 1 MICH, 4 PUR., Need 2 Michigan Tix I Need 1 Stanford student ticket. Call Dan FORCE Ga's & $$$$$$ + 2 STAN. STUD TIX. GA's or Student x3883
Class 
Call Brett @ 289-6988 CALL 234-8958. Call Peter 277-3109 
continued from page 10 
Need ONE Michigan ticket! Call JOY 287-7353 
BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU 
Desperately seeking BYU tickets Will Pay great $$$$$$$$$$$$$. Call Sarah at 273-8474 
or 631-5323. BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU 
FOR SALE: Student ticket booklet 273-9213 
seeking purdue and be ga's karenx3792 
Have 2 Mich GA's, want to trade for 
4 BYU GA's, or 2 BYU, 2 Stan. GA's. 277-9258 
NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S BIG$$$$$ CALL TJ X1290 
Coopers
!&Lybrand 

NEED PAIR OF MARRIED STUDENT SEASON TIX. JOHN 800-257-7210 EXT 1152. 
TO TRADE-8 (6 TOGETHER) STAN­FORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR ED BULLE IT 800-786-8723. 
$$NEED$$ 2 MICHIGAN GAS CALLJOHN AT $ 273-6138 $ 
I need 3-4 Michigan GA's Please call Jon at x1620 
Have pairs of Stanford and Airforce GA's willing to trade for Michigan or Fl. State GAs!!! Contact x4097 asap. 
Need 2 BYU GA tix. Need 3 Stanford STD. tix. Need 2-6 Stanford GA tix. I'm in some serious NEED so please call Rachael at x4667. Will pay BIG MONEY. 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. Ia profeSSIOnal serv1ces firm 

Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. cordially invites 
Accountancy, MIS, & CAPP Seniors 
to a reception to discuss 
career opportunities with our firm 
I Thursday, September 8 I 7:00 ·9:00p.m. I The Summit Club 25th Floor of the Valley American Bank Bldg. Downtown South Bend 
Casual attire appropriate 
I need one Michigan student ticket. Please call 284-5311. Thank you I 
FOR SALE: MARRIED STD. TIX. BOOKLETS 255.79.61 alter 6p. 
NEED MICHIGAN GA'S Call Chris @ X-3767 
I NEED MICHIGAN GA'S CALL MIKE X-3767 
Need 2 Navy GA's Call Burke x1699 
FOR SALE: 2 Michigan GA's. 273-9838. 
NEED 2 MICH GA'S -BILL X1862 
STUDENT TIX BOOK FOR SALE BEST OFFER DAVE X1461 
Need 2 Michigan GA's Will Pay top Dollar!!! Call Brian at 272-2376 PAIR of ND season tickets for sale. Best oHer by 7pm Thurs. Leave message 259-5103. 
4 SALE ...Stud Tix Booklet Best Offer. x2977 
I NEED MICHIGAN GA'S.272-6306 
NEED 1 MICHIGAN TIX, STUD OR GA. JOE 4-0514 
NEED BOTH MICH GA'S & SEASON STUD BKL T'S $$$$$$ PETE @ 287-4302. 
HELP! I NEED 2 GEN. ADM + 1 STU TIX FOR MICHIGAN GAME. CALL X3572. 
need michigan tix. call Amy 273-2871 
Will trade 4 BYU GA's for 4 Stanford GA's. Call Scott (NO 91) @ (201)402-9372 
Please Please Please Sell me your 4 PURDUE GA's all together. I have $$$. Heather 4-2688 Call me first!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
NEED 2 B.C. TIX. WILL PAY BIG$ CALL RYAN@4-1913 
fiQ6T UNITED METliODI6T CHUQCH 
333 N. Main 6L, &:>ulh 5end (Parkin8 available behind lhe church) 

JOIN U<£. fOQ TliE fALL GATliEQING <£.unday, &plember 11. 1994 
Worship &rvices 8:45011:00 a.m. 6unday &hocl for all a,ges 9:45 a.m. Nursery care provided lhroughout lhe momil\'j' 
Dr. Ellwood ("Woody") 6milh, &nior Pastor Tim Robison. Director of Music/Organist Cindy oolum, Director of Christian Education and Youlh Ministries 
233-9463 
I need 4 PURDUE GA's... Will pay insane amounts of money. Call Pete at 277-2710 
Need Michigan stud tix Eric x1087 
$$$$$$$$$$$ DESPARATELY NEED STUD TIX for MICH . Call MARC @ 233-4008 $$$$$$$$$$$ 
FOR SALE: 2 Air Force GA's, 2 Navy GA's. Call with best offer. Mike 3767 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ Need 2 GA's for BYU. Please call Katie 282-1603 
PERSONAL 
VETERANS: NEED MONEY FOR SCHOOL? JOIN THE INDIANA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. GOOD LEADERSHIP 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE NOW. CALL MAJOR TIM WARRICK (219) 234-9258. 
FRESHMEN-SOPHOMORES: LEARN LEADERSHIP AND EARN MONEY FOR SCHOOL. INDIANA ARMY NATION­AL GUARD. CALL MAJOR TIM WARRICK (219) 
234-9258. 
see ClASS I page 7 
13TH ANNUAL 
COLORADO 
...... 

' 
,,.,•.&'o~.c~..,;\•
... -...~ 
~ 
··~ti
LL FREE JNFORMAnON AND RESERVAnONS 
1•800•SUNCHASE 
NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 







Rudy Ruettiger 
will appear at the 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
on Friday Afternoon 
September gth 
1:00-4:00 p.m. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
~~on the campus" 
Open 9:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. on Friday 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 8, 1994 impact that they did. They "It's good to have 11 strong
• Sports Briefs 

changed the tempo of the game. starters, but you need another
Soccer

RecSports is offering the following Women's Lacrosse will have its first 
They are a great group with five or six players in reserve so 
sports: IH baseball (5 pml. IH football informational meeting Monday, Sept.12 
continued from page 16 good game sense. We have to you can be 16 to 18 deep
(women -6:45 pm, men -6 pm), IH ten­at 9 pm in the Montgomery Theatre in nis singles and mixed doubles, freshman LaFortune. For info call Molly 287-7353 keep them contributing." through the season. I think we 
I I , 
swim meet, G/F/S baseball (5 pm), G/F/S or Allison x2389. football (7:30 pm), G/F/S tennis singles Crew-There will be an informational and mixed doubles and softball (campus meeting for anyone wishing to join the 16" and co-ree) (5:30 pm). The deadline rowing team at 7:30p.m. in room 118 of and captain's meetings are on Thursday, the Nieuwland Science Hall. No experi­September 8, and times are above. All ence necessary. Attention varsity row­meetings will be in the JACC auditorium. ers: dues are due September 12. There will also be a flag football officials In-Line Hockey Tournament-This one meeting the same evening at 8 day, double elimination tournament will pm.Ketsu-Ka Self Defense-This Martial take place on Sunday, September 18 at Art form focuses on practical self-de­Outpost Sports (3602 N. Grape Rd., fense training and emphasizes both Mishawaka, IN 259-1000). It. will be an physical and mental conditioning. 8 team 5 on 5 (including goalie) tour­Semester long course that meets in nament. The first eight teams to register Rockne Rm 219 T/T 6:30-8:00 and will play. All equipment will be provided Sunday 2:00-4:00 starting Tuesday, by Rollerblade, but participants are September 13. You must register in encouraged to provide their own advance at RecSports and the fee is Rollerblades. The fee is $10 per team $18.00. A demonstration will be held on and you must registaer in advance at Sunday, September 11 at 2:00 in Rockne RecSports. There will also be a $5 fee Rm 219. For more info call1-6100. for insurence and transportation will not 
Shorln-Ryu Karate-Students are be provided. For more info. call instructed according to traditional RecSportsat 1-6100. Okinawan techniques. Semester long Climbing Wall-located in the Rockne . course that meets in Rockne Rm 301 Memorial will he open for operation M/W 4:30-6:00 starting Wednesday, beginning Tuesday, September 13. The September 14. You must register in hours will be Tuesdays & Thursdays advance at RecSports and the fee is 7:00-10:00 p.m. and Sunday 2:00-5:00 $15.00. A demonstration will be held on p.m. All users have to complete an ori­Monday, September 12 at 5:00 in entation session before they will be Rockne Rm 301. Call 1-6100 for more allowed open use. For more info. call info. RecSports at 1-6100. 
Women's Safety and Self-Defense­Challenge U Fitness-Aerobic classes This course exposes women to basic self­have started. Make sure to bring your defense techniques as used in real-life green exerciser ID card with you. Some crisis situations. Class meets for ten ses­classes are still open. Call RecSports for sions on M/W from 6:30 -7:45 in Rockne more info. at 1-6100. Rm 219. Class begins on Monday, Off-Campus Womens Footbaii­September 12 and is open to students Pracxtice at 5:30 thursday in the fields and staff. Class size is limited and there next to Belmont Beverage. Questions? is a fee of $9.00. For more info call Rae­call Kelly at 273-6274. Sports at 1-6100. 


~~asyli,~t~ 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 

(219)277-1291 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions.· 
Weekly Illustrators Daily Cartoonist Weekly Political Cartoonist 
Interested persons should be able to work on a daily or weekly basis for the fall semister. For further information call Art Manager Garrett Gray at xl771. 



DJlvJlrru.g 1Deiim 
.~ 
·'0
.

The Men's and Women's Varsity Diving 
Teams will be holding open tryouts for all those interested. There will be an open meeting Monday, September 12, 4:00pm. 
Tryouts will be Tuesday, September 13th and Wednesday September 14th. 
If you are unable to make the meeting or have any questions please contact: 
Tim Welsh, Head Coach 631-7042 Randy Julian, Asst Coach 631-8455 

sophomore midfielder 
Konstantin  Koloskov,  who  
scored on an empty net.  
Along  with  Turner  and  

Savarino, fellow freshmen Joe Gallo, Scott Wells and Matthew Zimmer helped lead the Irish to victory. 
"The Freshman made the dif­ference," Berticelli said. "We wanted to give them some time, but we didn't know that they would have the tremendous 
With the injection of the fresh­men and other reserves such as Chris Mathis, Dane Whitley, Peter Gansler, Rick Christofer and Tony Capasso, the Irish increased their already high pressure and eliminated any chance the Wildcats had at get­ting back into the game. 
"We were happy with the way the reserves played," Berticelli added. 
have that." 
Along with the chance to ex­amine their depth, the Irish also got a much deserved win. 
"This was a good start. It's good to win the opener at home." 
A start is just what it is. The Irish have a long season in front of them, continuing this Friday at Alumni Field against Ohio State. 

Watch for the upcoming Michigan Sports Extra in Friday's Observer! 

...calling all musicians, 
poets, story-tellers, 
comedians, or anybody who 
digs that kinda stuff ... 
-ACOUSTIC CAFE­
STARTING TONIGHT 9-12 p.m. (free food!) AND RUNNING EVERY 
THURSDAY NIGHT IN _. 
LAFORTUNE HUDDLE 
cool. 

ANNOUNCING T\\'0 NEW CREF ACCOUNTS 



YOU'RE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. 
WE RECOMMEND BOTH. 
Introducing the CREF Growth Account and the CREF Equity Index Account. 
W
hether you want a fund that in the Russell 3000®,** a broad index of selects specinc stocks or one that U.S. stocks. covers the market, we're on the same page. Like our CREF Stock Account, which Our new CREF Growth and CREF combines active, indexed, and foreign Equity Index Accounts use two distinct investing, and our Global Equities strategies for investing in the stock mar­Account, which actively seeks opportuni­ket, but both aim to provide what every ties worldwide, the new funds are managed smart investor looks for: long-term by experienced investment professionals. growth that outpaces inflation!' They're the same experts who have helped 
The CREF Growth Account searches make TIAA-CREF the largest pension for individual companies that are system in the U.S., managing over $130 poised for superior growth. In contrast, billion in assets. the Equity Index Account looks for more To find out more about our new stock diversincation, with a portfolio encom­funds, and building your portfolio with passing almost the entire range of U.S. TIAA-CREF, just call 1 800-842-2776. stock investments. It will invest in stocks And take your pick. 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 
*The new funds are availa!Jie for Retirement Annuities subject to the terms ofyour institution's plan. Thty are availahle for all Supplemental Retirement Annuities. ••The Ruuell3000 is a registered trademark of the Frank Ru~>sell Company. Runell is not a sponsor of the CRfo:F t<:quity Index Account and is not affiliated with it in any way. For more complete information, including charges and expt"n&es, call I 800-842-2733, ext. 5509 for a CREF prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 
· • · CRF:,.'turtillrttles lire Jlslr'ihuted by TIAA-CREF Individual and lnstilutional Services, Inc. 
page 13 

Thursday, September 8, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
THE DILLON LL 


PEP LLY 
Featuring: 



TONIGHT!!! 
Sunshine Wine playing at 6:30 Rally begins at 7:00 In Front of Dillon Hall 
special guest appearance by: 

Lou Holtz 
and other honored speakers 
*Come and see one ofNotre DameS longest 
running traditions!!! 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 8, 1994 

Becton 
continued from page 16 
personal for Becton, who admits he was embarrassed by last week's totals. 
"I wasn't mad. I was frus­trated at myself. It really didn't matter whether or not I got 100 yards. I was just upset with the runs and decisions I made. That upset me more than any­thing else." 
The blame for last week's 161 total rushing yards was not solely Becton's to bare. The offensive line was sus­pect and is certainly one of the greatest concerns going into the Michigan game. 
" I am definitely adjusting a little more to this line. They are a little different, they block a little different than last year's team, but I think they will be just as effective," Becton said. 
Even more effective, Becton believes, if he forgets the individual honors and the hype which got to him last week. 
"I am just going to go out and play on Saturday and let the individual honors take care of themselves after the season." 

Goheen 
continued from page 16 
punt kept us on the field a long ti•. A lot of guys got tired out there, which made it difficult to play hard," Goheen said. 
The comparisons have come from all sides after the mediocre play against the Wildcats. Last year's defense versus the 1994 unit. Some say this year's group can't stand up against a unit that had six players now in the NFL. 
"There isn't one guy I would trade on this year's defense for someone on last year's unit," Goheen said. 
The comparisons won't stop unless the defense performs against Michigan. Against the Wolverines last year, the defense established itself as the team's strength. Saturday's contest is also do or die for defensive coor­dinator Bob Davie's attacking scheme, a stark contrast to Holtz's traditional style. 
"Like any coach, coach Holtz doesn't want to give up the big play," Goheen said. "From the players' perspective, we need to step up our play to the best of our ability. We need to do well so coach Holtz will have confidence in the scheme and in us." 
Belles ready for season to start 
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
A young Saint Mary's volley­ball team faces it's first chal­lenge this evening at Manch­ester College. The Belles con­
sist of nine freshmen,  one  
junior transfer student,  and  
two returning juniors.  

The final cuts for the Belles took place last Thursday giv­ing the new team only a week's preparation for Manchester. 
"Since last Thursday, God has really blessed us," said coach Schroeder-Biek. "We have worked extremely well to­gether and I cannot foresee any attitude problems in the tional additions to the Belles. future." Prosser is scheduled to start . 

Manchester is also experi-One of the Belles weaknesses encing some change under a is finding a setter to replace new coaching system. "With a the graduated Michelle year of experience under their Martino. Martino, last year's belt," said Schroeder-Biek. captain, set for four years for "Manchester will be a difficult the Belles. Saint Mary's is hav­team to beat." ing Stronczek, Kelly Meyer, 
Sara Stronczek, who stands and Stephanie Bonk try out for at 5'10 was the Belles leading the setting position. hitter last year. High expecta-"Stronczek is such a good tions for leadership qualities athlete," said Schroederr-Biek, rest on her and Ann "that she could step into any Lawrence's shoulders this sea-position and do a good job." son, said Schroeder-Biek. Last year, the Belles (22-9) 
"With two years of playing tied the best record in Saint experience with South Western Mary's history. This year they Michigan, junior transfer, Kel-hope to be regionally ranked, ley Prosser is one of the excep-according to Lawrence. 

Volleyball 
continued from page 16 

strong hitting and blocking team. They manipu­lated the Irish weaknesses by finding the holes in the Irish defense and sending many "tips" over the net for kills. 
"They found some weaknesses in our game, and we had to adjust," said Brown. 
And that is exactly what the Irish did, as they slammed a total of 58 kills and 11 services aces at the Yellow Jackets. 
Once again senior Christy Peters led the team at the net with 17 kills, but the Irish received strong performances from sophomore outside hitter Jenny Birkner with 14 kills and freshman Jamie Lee who added 10 kills to the list. Freshman sensation Angie Harris rounded out the Irish hitting effort with 12 kills. 
Junior setter Shannon Tuttle also impressed the crowd with 46 assists and 9 digs in the back court. 
Overall, it was a very impressive victory for the Irish, as they remain undefeated at 6-0. 
University of Notre Dame 
International Study Program at 

NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA 
SOPHOMORES WHO NEED DETAILS ON AUSTRALIA PROGRAM FOR 1995-96 
INFORMATION MEETING THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8,1994 131 DEBARTOLO 6:30PM 
Sophomores in Colleges of Arts and Letters And Business Administration Are Welcome! 


The Observer 
Are you interested in what's going on at other college campuses? Ifso, write for the Observer's 
Ca01puses Page, 
a weekly section ofnews and features ofother schools. Ifinterested call Marcy or Zoe at 1-5323. 
find outmore about the Sacrament of 

Are you a baptized Catholic who has never been Confirmed? Would you like to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students? 
It's a wonderful opportunity to ... 
~ learn and talk about your faith ~ meet new friends 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING: 
Sunday, September 11 6:30p.m. Faculty Dining Room (upstairs in the South Dining Hall) 
Questions?? Call Darrell Paulsen at 631-5242 or stop by the Badin Campus Ministry office 
Would you like to sponsor a candidate for Confirmation? Call Darrell at 631·5242 or come to the sponsors' info session at 6:30p.m. on Monday Sevtember 12 in the Faculty Dining Room 



First 

(STOP BY SUBWAY FOR A GIANT 6-FOOT PARTY SUB STARTING AS LOW AS $37.95) 

and Goal. 
(BEAT MICHIGAN.) 

(lMPUS 
-
K/11NI5TRY 

FRIDAY NIGHT CLASH UNDER THE LIGHTS! 
1:30 p.m. I NDISMC STUDENTS FREE WITH 10 



Celebrate a 
friend's birthday with a special 


Observer ad. 

---------------~-----~ -­
Thursday, September 8, 1994 The Observer· TODAY 
THE FAR SIDE 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
~ou Gor ),.,,..., 
NoT!>£. l:>AmE '[A.vse. '1ovi>.E 'Re:<-A"rE.ip To "De13AI>TO<-O, 1-\u~;> 
__/ 
11\t: ru?.l£SS SPt>-CEMf>N 
15 BEING P\JR'S\l@ ACRC£5 
11\E G,t...\..1>.)('1 B'( I:>RtADEi::l 
S:.ut<\ B£\NGS' 
l"D Ll!<-E A JOB 
f-\IGI-I-PAYING
WHEF\E I CAN 
YET HAVE GOALS
TELECO/"\MUTE. 
Wr\lCf-\ CAN'T BE
EVERY DAY 
MEASURE.O 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  26 Year in the reign  48 Grosbeak's beak  
1 Beelike 6 Longtime record label 9 Funny Anne  of Pius I 28 Perfect 31 Sum of one's virtues, to the Greeks  so Fred Astaire's daughter 51 Laundromat appliance 55 To-­ 
14 Popovich or Gagarin, e.g.  33 Palmer of "Twin Peaks"  56 Chicken sandwich?  
16 Michaelmas daisy 17 Sandwich devotees? 19 Greek vowels 20 Expressed wonder  35 Stravinsky and others 36 Sandwich fit for royalty? 38 British P.M., 1970-74 39 "Aminta" poet 40isleft  60 Mounted lancer 61 Synthetic rubber 62 Hypothesize 63Lion's­64 They're more than rare  
21 Singapore's  undecided  
KuanYew­22 Cube with 21 spots 23 Passeport info 25 Du Maurier's "Jamaica-"  41 Hemingway moniker 421n-­(following) 45 Shaver 46 One vote  DOWN 1 Hurt 2 Graceful, in a way 3 Acre's acres? 4 Freeman  
Gosden radio  
role 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
s "Move it!" 6--avis 7 Astrological 
point 8 Villa AI bani statue in Rome 
9 Plan 10 It's psychic 11 Painting locales 12 Sublets 

-:+.:-+:-,t:-+=-1 1 3 Lupin of detective fiction -...,.._:::~+-'-'-~ 15 Eggy quaff 
~;..:+:~=-F-EB 18 Familiar vow 24 Balthazar, e.g. 27 Work translated 
by Chapman 

C::.4 ~ 
Starting Tonight! 
and every Thursday night 
-. th 
from 9 12 m e LaFortune Huddle 

1\\E'fR.E Gt>-1~\~G .' SPliTs  1\EI-\ \.18L JlJSI  
OOli Q\t-NCE lb LOS£ \\.1£\-1\  U\-1, ClJ..Wit-lG  
IS Th Rt.LEAS£ f>.. G\/>..~1  1\1£ ERAS~R.s,  
':MOV-E C\..OOD 8£1-\\t{l) 1-\\S  1-\8-\ 1-\E\-\ ...  
S\lf>..et.CRf>..IT .' OJR 1-\t:?C  (COV~I-I)  
1\.\~W'S 11-\E LEVER!  
@1989 Un•versal Press Synd•cate  

lT SHOULD BE 

28 The "H" of W. H. Auden 29 Spanish Main cargo 30 Issue of 1993 32 Obedient helper 
34 Nervous 3Singrid in "Casablanca" 36 Actresses Kay 
and Suzy 37 Shako, for one 38 Final throw 

PsssL We're the Blues Brothen. Come see . 
:. our movie tonite in LaFortune's Mont-wun y USSian unes. 
gomery Theatre for $1 at 7:30 and 10:00. u ....... II thin "fu ky """ 'd be L
we..-.: gonna ca 110me g n W11J\a.1, you tter come, pa 
SO, YOU'D 
I WAS
STAY 1-\0ME. 
HOPING
AND WE'D 
FOR
t'\AlL YOU 
DIRECT
CHECKS? 
DEPOSIT.
) 

page 15 
-' 
GARY LARSON 
' 


-------------------,


LIMPOPO ­
After the pep rally 
Friday, come to ~~ Stonehenge for some funky 
STVDENTUNIONBOARD
k R t 
40 Emphasize 
41 Diagrammed 43 Punctual 44 Freud, e.g. 
47 Relative of Geo. or Chas. 49 Parts of boilermakers 52 Kind of tide 
53 Statesman of 3-Down 54 Want ad abbr. 55 Elvis-Presley 57 My­58 Minn. neighbor 59From­izzard 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

L---------------.~~.~~.~------.------------.-----'!"'!"~---------..1 


SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, September 8, 1994 
• FOOTBALL 



Read&React 
Becton (top) says 
Goheen believes key to running defense needs attack is patience more emotion 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor Spons Editor 
Lee Becton will admit it. Last Saturday Justin Goheen is old hand at this big 
against Northwestern he was thinking game stuff. He talks calmly about the large. The senior tailback was looking for Michigan matchup as if it was a sandlot the big play. something for ESPN and the 
game back in his Philadelphia suburb. 

highlight reel -'-a performance that had "Sure. it's a big game. everyone realizes Heisman written all over it. 
a loss could knock us out of the national"I tried to do too much," Becton said. 

championship picture, but the same is on"All the talk about the Heisman and the the line for Michigan," the senior line­hype wasn't really a distraction. but you backer said. "That is what makes bigknow, it got me away from my style of games big." 

play." 
That style being Becton's smooth gait, Although it doesn't appear to phase letting the blocks form, the defenders him. Goheen knows this game will say a miss, and the yards come. It is all about lot about the Irish defense, of which he is patience. the leader. 
"I didn't have a very good performance "I think we need to improve from last Saturday," Becton said. "There were week, but the improvement needs to times when I think I made bad decisions 
come mentally," Goheen said. "I think we on runs. But I mean, that just goes with need to come out and play with a littlethe game. I just need to take my level of more emotion, style and personality." 

play up a bit and try and make better 
All which needs to translate into a

decisions." 
strong run defense for the Irish. Although As Notre Dame prepares for Saturday's Michigan will be without running backmatchup with fifth-ranked Michigan, Tyrone Wheatley, their strength remains

Becton tries to come to terms with his performance last week (16 yards on ten in the rush. carries) and the expectations his coach "I can't believe he is not playing," and teammates have heaped upon his Goheen said. "But it doesn't really matter shoulders. Quarterback Ron Powlus is because they have a number of good the talent, but Becton is the key. A sterile backs. Either way, the job of the defense running attack almost certainly spells is still the same." doom against the Wolverines. 
The defense didn't do it's job last week, "Last week the running game didn't allowing Northwestern's Dennis Lundy tofare well," Becton said. "But we just run for 138 yards. Although the Wildcats' decided to work hard, practice, and try line is formidable, it can't compare toand get the running game going again. I Michigan's front. And Lundy is far fromthink it will be fine. There were just some being as talented as Ed Davis or Tim Bi­things we needed to work on and tune up 

a bit." akabutuka, Wheatley's replacements at The run through Jiffy Lube is also very tailback. "Last week the penalties and the fake 
see BECTON I page 14 see GOHEEN I page 14 


• Mot's SocceR 
Freshmen star in victory 
.. 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sporu Writer 
Maybe Notre Dame's football team should take lessons on how to fully dominate Northwestern, as the Irish men's soccer team crushed the Wildcats 5-1 last night at Alumni Field. The Irish pressured the Wildcats from the start and took the lead on a goal from senior forward Tim Oates, which was setup by freshman sensation Ryan Turner. Oates fmished the game with two goals, while Turner added an insurance goal in the second half when he beat the defense to a Bert Bader goalkick and proceeded to punch it 
past the Wildcat goalkeeper. 
"Turner played great," coach Bert Berticelli said. "People think that when (Bill) Lanza comes back that he (Turner) will sit. That's not true. He will start every game for four years.. .somewhere." 
Along with Turner, freshman substi­tute midfielder Bill Savarino also made tremendous contributions. He scored the winning goal for the Irish off an assist from Turner, and also recorded an assist of his own. Early in the sec­ond half, after beating the goalkeeper, he made a spectacular crossing pass to 
see SOCCER page 12 
• Vou.EYBAU. 


Irish top Yellow Jackets 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's victory over Georgia Tech last night was not as easy as the scores made it look. Although the Irish swept the Yellow Jackets in three games, with scores of 15-4,15-9, and 15-12, the victory was an exhausting one. 
As Coach Debbie Brown predicted, Georgia Tech gave the Irish a great match. 
"They are a well-coached team and they gave us a good match, as I expect­ed," Brown said. 
"But we responded well by our skills and by executing our game plan," she added. 
The Yellow Jackets were a very smart and powerful team, similar to the Irish, but unlike anything they had seen in their first five games. In previous games, the Irish have struck early and worn down opponents to the point where they could not get back in the game. The Yellow Jackets did not fold. 
Georgia Tech was very impressive at the net. Even though the Irish had four players in double digits in the kill cate­gory, the Yellow Jackets were also a 
see VOLLEYBALL page 14 


of note...
SPORTS EXTRA Complete Preview of Saturday's Match up This Friday at 7:30 p.m. the Irish 
men's soccer team will face between Notre Dame and Michigan. 

Ohio State at Alumni Field. 

See Friday's Sports 






