
~150 YEARS~ 
......
• Y'S 
< <l I I_ I 1; I 
>t""'
Monday, October 10, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.32 i1 NOTRE DAME·IN~ 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Three students assaulted 
Security urges caution on Notre Dame Ave. By LIZ FORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Three assaults involving Notre Dame ·women were reported on Thursday and Friday evenings, according to the South Bend Police. 
The assaults occurred in the 500 and 600 blocks of Notre Dame Avenue, six blocks south of campus, between Sorin and Cedar Streets. The area is two blocks south of Notre Dame Apartments and one block south of Club 23. 
The first incident occurred at approximately 7 
p.m. on Thursday evening in the 500 block of N. Notre Dame Avenue. A female student who lives off-campus stated she was chased by 10 to 15 black male juveniles, who knocked her off of her bicycle, and then kicked and punched her. 
Another incident occurred shortly after 7 p.m. on the same evening involving another Notre Dame student. A Pangborn Hall resident stated she was jogging with three other students in the 600 block of Notre Dame Avenue when she was struck in the back of the head by a soda can that was partially filled with liquid. She said the can was thrown by a group of black male juveniles. 
The most recent incident was reported just before 6 p.m. on Friday night, in the 500 block of Notre Dame Avenue. A Howard Hall resident stated she was jogging and was struck in the back of the head by a rock. She said the rock was thrown by one of three black male juve­niles. 
According to Charles Hurley, assistant direc­tor of Notre Dame Security, the area of the assaults is within the district of South Bend Police. Notre Dame Security does a "perimeter patrol" of the campus, including the area of the assaults, beginning at 8 p.m. every night, Hur­ley said. But he added that the assaults occurred before the evening patrol began. 
Sgt. John Williams of the South Bend Police says that he has heard of no additional inci-

Morris, 

lt<E U~rsity A
Inn 
ofNotre 

\!1!) 
Dame 
Notre Dame Security askes that all students avoid the highlighted area while on foot or bicycling. This is the area ofthe 
[ three latest attacks on Notre 
[ Dame students by a group of juveniles. 
The Observer/Robert BoUman, Jr. ­

dents in the area after Friday night. "We added one extra car to patrol the area, which doesn't sound like much but it makes a difference." 
Williams, who lives in the area, says that increased patrols have also occurred due to the robberies in the area of the Eck Tennis Pavilion in past weeks and to several incidents of break-in's in the area. 
"We try our best to deal with the problems in the area," he added. 
Notre Dame Security is warning everyone to use extreme caution in this area and to avoid walking, jogging or bicycle riding through the area if at all 
possible. 

Founders honored by Saint Mary's College 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Father Edward Sorin and Mother Angela Gillespie will be remembered during this Founders' Week for their work 150 years ago in moving Saint Mary's College from Bertrand, Michigan, to its present site, according to Molly Sanford, co­chairperson of the Student Alumnae Association. 
"I hope that through all of the activities the Student Alumnae Association has sponsored this week, people will come away with a deeper appreciation for the traditions and history Saint Mary's has," Sanford said. 
"I feel it is especially impor­tant in this sesquicentennial year for us to honor Fr. Sorin, Mother Angela and all of the Sisters of the Holy Cross who have made the College what it is today," she continued. 
Among the events planned for Founders' Week will be a distribution of three student­signed posters on Monday to the convents in which Sisters of the Holy Cross reside as a sym­bol of appreciation. 
On Tuesday, tours will be given through the Riedinger House from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
The house was originally built for home economics ma­jors in 1939 and allowed them to live there for weeks at a time while they perfected their cook­ing and entertaining skills un­der the direction of one of the nuns. Currently, the house may be reserved by distin­guished alumnae or guests dur­ing their overnight campus stays, according to Sanford. 
The Heritage Room in Bertrand Hall will also be ac­cessible on Tuesday, from 1 
p.m. to 3 p.m., to those who wish to view various displays of photographs and memorabilia from the early years of the col­lege 
All students are invited to at­tend a special theme dinner on Wednesday evening from 4:30 
p.m. to 6 p.m. in the dining hall as well as a reception in Le Mans Hall on Thursday from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. where year­books and other materials from the college archives will be on display, Sanford said. 
"The schedule of events con­cludes with a press conference in the Cushwa-Leighton Library at 9 a.m. on Friday. It is be­lieved an announcement will be made concerning a substantial gift which is being offered to the College by an undisclosed source," she continued. 
"Founders' Week is impor­tant this year as we honor tradition and pioneer change. I hope faculty and students learn about the rich history of Saint Mary's College and how it has shaped us and will continue to shape us as we progress as an all-women's Catholic college," said Kelly Roman, co-chairper­son of the Student Alumnae As­sociation. 
The Association was formed in 1990 to serve as a link be­tween alumnae and current students. Barb Henry (SMC 
see FOUNDERS I page 4 


Arab guerrillas attack in Jerusalem cafes 
By ED BLANCHE 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, Cyprus 
Kuwait moved the bulk of its 18,000-member army to its northern border Sunday while Baghdad proclaimed "the right to take any measures" to de­fend itself against a foreign "plot" to crush it. 
Iraq's foreign minister said later that Baghdad preferred a diplomatic solution to its "cri­sis with the United Nations, but would insist on guarantees of a speedy end to the Gulf War sanctions." 
U.S. troops, aircraft and war­ships headed for the Persian Gulf on Sunday to counter Iraq's unexpected military buildup near Kuwait's border. 
The United States has also sent a massive contingent of Air Force and Navy attack air­craft into the Persian Gulf, Defense Secretary William Perry said Sunday. 
"All in all, this is a formida­ble military force," Perry said. 
U.S. officials reported that the movement of 20,000 Republican Guards toward the Kuwaiti border had raised the number of Iraqi troops in the area to 64,000. Some 700 tanks were also deployed or heading south. 

The closest Iraqi troops were 12 miles from Kuwait. Pen­tagon officials said Sunday that Iraqi troops were continuing to gather near the border, but did not provide numbers. 
Besselin Kostov. spokesman for the U.N. Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission estab­lished after the 1991 Gulf War, said by telephone that the U.N. forces in the demilitarized zone had not observed any new military movements Sunday afternoon. The zone extends six miles into Iraq and three miles into Kuwait. 
Baghdad insists the troop movements do not threaten Kuwait. But while within Iraq's rights, the deployment of troops near the Kuwaiti border has elicited a quick response from countries chastened by Saddam Hussein's surprise in­vasion of the emirate four years ago. 
Perry himself refused to join speculation that Saddam's ac­tions are just a bluff intended to win a relaxation of bruising 
U.N. sanctions punishing Baghdad for occupying its tiny neighbor. 

Kuwait moves troops to border 
By ED BLANCHE 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, Cyprus 

Kuwait moved the bulk of its 18,000-member army to its northern border Sunday while Baghdad proclaimed "the right to take any measures" to de­fend itself against a foreign "plot" to crush it. 
Iraq's foreign minister said later that Baghdad preferred a diplomatic solution to its "crisis with the United Nations, but would insist on guarantees of a speedy end to the Gulf War sanctions." 
U.S. troops, aircraft and war­ships headed for the Persian Gulf on Sunday to counter Iraq's unexpected military buildup near Kuwait's border. 
The United States has also sent a massive contingent of Air Force and Navy attack aircraft into the Persian Gulf, Defense Secretary William Perry said Sunday. 
"All in all, this is a formidable military force," Perry said. 
U.S. officials reported that the movement of 20,000 Republi­can Guards toward the Kuwaiti border had raised the number of Iraqi troops in the area to 64,000. Some 700 tanks were also deployed or heading south. 
The closest Iraqi troops were 12 miles from Kuwait. Pen­tagon officials said Sunday that Iraqi troops were continuing to gather near the border, but did not provide numbers. 
Besselin Kostov, spokesman for the U.N. Iraq-Kuwait Obser­vation Mission established after the 1991 Gulf War, said by tele­phone that the U.N. forces in the demilitarized zone had not observed any new military movements Sunday afternoon. The zone extends six miles into Iraq and three miles into Kuwait. 
Baghdad insists the troop movements do not threaten Kuwait. But while within Iraq's rights, the deployment of troops near the Kuwaiti border has elicited a quick response from countries chastened by Saddam Hussein's surprise invasion of the emirate four years ago. 
Perry himself refused to join speculation that Saddam's ac­tions are just a bluff intended to win a relaxation of bruising 
U.N. sanctions punishing Baghdad for occupying its tiny neighbor. 
Kuwait, which signed defense pacts with the United States, Britain, Russia and France after the 1990 invasion, began moving tanks and 15,000 of its 18,000 troops to the desert bor­der, a highly placed Kuwaiti official said Saturday. 
A British frigate, HMS Corn­wall, arrived off Kuwait City on Sunday morning. Britain also has six Tornado fighters based in the region. 
Thousands of people, mean­while, were camped near the Iraqi side of the frontier, ap­parently herded there by Baghdad and directed to stage demonstrations to heat up the pressure on the border, U.N. officials said. 
Iraq said they were some of the tens of thousands of state­less Arabs displaced after the Gulf War. But Kuwait main­tained they were Iraqi soldiers dressed in civilian clothes. 
Kostov said the Arabs did not appear to be armed. But he said Iraq had notified the United Nations that as many as 20,000 of them were expected to stage an anti-Kuwait protest. 
Baghdad Radio sharply heightened rhetoric Sunday, accusing the West of plotting to crush the Iraqi people. 
The radio said the U.N. em­bargo had subjected Iraq to "an injustice of unprecedented proportions." 
A main target of the commen­tary's invective was Rolf Ekeus, the head of the U.N. Special Commission charged with dis­mantling Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and installing long-term monitoring of Iraq's weapons program . 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, October I 0, 1994 


Anatomy
of an 



all nighter 
As midterm week com--------­mences, you may find yourself forced to forgeo sleep to complete those various academic pur­suits. Here is an intinerary to help you sur­vive any foreseeable "night of hell" in your near future. 
Kate Crisham 
4:36 p.m. Glancing through your Daily Assistant News Editor Shillaleagh, you discover 
that you have a five page paper due over a book you haven't read in a class you've attended sporadically. Ease your 
panic by reminding yourself that you have over fourteen hours to complete the paper­more than enough time. 
5:23 Go to dinner. Complain loudly to your friends what a rotten night you have in store. Blithely assume that no one else has any work to do. 
5:47 Spot a classmate over by the salad bar. Waste another twenty minutes dis­cussing how absolutely screwed you are for this paper. 
6:17 Wander up to the upper regions of the library, ready for a night of writing. Enlist the help of your trusty friend Mr. Cliff Notes to provide a "critical perspective" of the work in question. 
7:51 Having breezed through the little yel­low book in record time, you go to the com­puter lab, only to discover that you've left your ID at home. Go back, intending to return immediately to the library. Opt to watch a Melrose rerun instead. 
9:07 Return to the lab to fmd a waiting list which could rival a bread line in Russia. 
9:26 Finally get on a Mac. Celebrate by taking a study break to check your e-mail. 
11:57 Experiment with different fonts. Ultimately decide on Courier-big, yet not cheesy. 
1:45 Hesburgh computer lab closes. Prepare to join the mass exodus of fellow pro­crastinators over to DeBartolo. 
2:20 Discover seven of your classmates at the lab. Giddily compare your horrible papers while asking yourselves why you ever became PLS majors anyway. 
2:47 Realize that you have less than six hours left. Become extremely stressed and crabby. Snarl at the lab monitor when he asks you to remove your soda from the premises. 
3:15 After returning from your umpteenth study break, inspiration strikes. Nobel-prize caliber statements are appearing on your screen when ... 
3:45 The lab closes for 45 minutes for cleaning. Further complicate your back prob­lems by attempting to nap on a DeBartolo sofa. 
4:26 Consume your ninth Pepsi of the evening to prop your eyelids up. 
5:20 As the dawn nears, the pressure mounts. Become increasingly liberal with your font sizes and margins. Fill space with random quotes. 
8:40 Sixteen hours later, your enterprise is completed. On the way to class, pick up a professional-looking plastic cover for your masterpiece-always worth a few points. 
9:05 Handing in your paper, you notice that it contains multiple spelling errors, run-on sentences, and completely lacks any thesis. You are too tired to care. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• ImlAY's STAFF 
News Production Liz Foran Elizabeth Harnisch Brad Prendergast David Diaz 
Graphics
Sports 
Roben Bollman
Matt Casey 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmtw AT A GLANCE 

Cult investigation continues 
GENEVA 
The investigation into the cult deaths of 53 people in Switzerland and Canada has spread to France and Aus­tralia amid unconfirmed reports that the group's leaders were involved in arms trafficking and money laundering. 
The bodies of 48 cult followers, some of them shot in the head and hooded with plastic bags, were discovered in the rubble of fires at three chalets and a farm in Switzerland. Five other bodies were found in a charred chalet the cult leaders owned north of Montreal. 
Authorities have suggested the fires were set to hide evi­dence of the deaths. It is not known whether di Mambro, a French-Canadian who lived in Switzerland, and the cult's other leader, Luc Jouret, a Belgian physician who lived in Switzerland and Canada, were among the dead. 
The French connection first surfaced Saturday when police uncovered an intricate incendiary device at an empty villa the cult used in southern France. 
The device, which could have been triggered by a coded telephone call, was like the bombs that set off the fires last week in Switzerland and Canada. 
In Canada, investigators said Antonio and Nikki Dutoit and their 3-month-old son, three of the victims in Quebec, had been stabbed to death several days before the fire. 
There were unconfirmed news reports from Canada and Australia that the two used the group as a front for arms trafficking through Australia and money laundering in Swiss banks. 
An official of the Royal Bank of Canada in Ottawa said the bank tipped off Canadian police in July about sus­picious activity in an Ottawa account of a cult member. 
Bank spokesman David Moorcroft said he was prohibited by law from releasing the account-holder's name, but he said the movement of hundreds of thousands of dollars without evidence of legitimate sources could trigger such a report to police. 
Constable Gilles Deziel of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police confirmed that Canadian authorities were investigat­ing reports of money laundering involving members of the Order of the Solar Temple, the cult's name in Canada. 
Radio-Canada, citing unidentified sources, said the cult moved hundreds of millions of dollars through some of the world's largest banks from Switzerland to Ottawa, where it said di Mambro had a bank account and his wife signed papers. The di Mambros are listed as tenants in a subur­ban Ottawa apartment. 
Radio-Canada said the cult leaders ran their arms-traf­ficking empire from a farm in Australia, but there was no confirmation of the report from Australia. 
Switzerland has issued an international warrant for the arrest of Jouret and di Mambro on suspicion of arson and premeditated homicide, but Piller said he wasn't sure they were still alive. 
Family members, who didn't want their names used, told reporters in Sion, Switzerland, that they identified di Mambro among the victims recovered from the Swiss chalets. 
Bacall working to save movie classics 
LOS ANGELES 
Lauren Bacall is sounding the alarm for an endangered species. "We've got to realize that 50 percent of all movies made before 1950 are gone," said the 70-year­old actress, who starred in plenty of them. "We simply can't let that happen with any of the others." Bacall hopes to rally support for efforts to preserve aging film classics, which were shot on nitrate­based film that deteriorates over time. The American Movies Classics cable channel is working with director Martin Scorsese and The Film Foundation to raise money to transfer many of the classics to acetate to preserve them. "The tragedy is that there just aren't enough people involved to really turn the tide for preservation," Bacall said. 
• INDIANA WEATHER 
Monday, Oct. 10 Accu-Weather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
OHIO 
ILL. 
KY. 

~,~,~~~~ (f ~ ~ 
ShowetS T·stonns Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Clou:iy VIa Associatsd Press GraphlcsNet C1 ~ Accu-Weather, Inc. 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
----------·--­

TheAceu-Weather~forecast tornoon. Monday, Oct. 10. 
FRONTS: 
............... ..&...A....~ COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pf9ssura ~ ~ ,...-/"\
H LEa &'SJ II!l 0 IZ3~ -z....r ~~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta  69  59  Dallas  72  49  New Orleans 69  63  
Baltimore 64  50  Denver  76  40  New York  64  56  
Boston  60  54  Los Angeles 94  72  Philadelphia 60  54  
Chicago  56  34  Miami  88  75  Phoenix  92  69  
Columbus 59  34  Minneapolis 59  32  Pittsburgh  36  31  

Bless this meal 
At family meals at home, how ~~~~. 
often does someone say grace or · i give thanks to God before meals? . 
Frequently I Always I 

Figures don't total100 percent due to rounding. 
ESourr:e: GaHup p.;J\'\;1 688 adult5 in ~r •. Pllc$11'1b$t 1993._ ·•* '"•-'····•.w.M::~;·. AP 

Baseball, hockey put vendors on ice 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
First baseball took a hike. Then hockey. As a result, the people who sell hot dogs, beer and peanuts are on an unwilling furlough instead of enjoying a busy fall. "We should have been having the beginning of the hockey sea­son and the end of an exciting baseball season and the start of the playoffs," said Bob Schwartz, of Vienna Sausage Manufacturing Co., which supplies hot dogs to vendors in Chicago "Instead, there's nothing," he said. Those hardest hit are the little guys, vendors who might only work a few hours a week selling goods at a ballpark. Sandy Pecoraro, who works at a concession stand in Buffalo, said she depends on money from the part-time job to help raise her two children. "This is killing me finan­cially," she said of the postponed hockey season. "What do I do, get another job then quit if the season finally starts? I'm just disgusted with sports in general." 
Lebow, founder of NYC Marathon, dies 
NEW YORK 
Fred Lebow, who founded the New York City Marathon and built it into an international event, died Sunday o brain cancer. He was 62. Lebow, who was diagnosed with cancer in 1990, was once told he had only six months to live but refused to quit running. A year after being operat­ed on for thyroid cancer, he ran the 1992 marathon, with thousands cheering when he crossed the finish line. The first race, a four-loop circuit around Central Park in 1970, attracted only 127 runners, with Lebow placing 45th among the 55 who finished. The race is now run through all five of the city's boroughs, starting on Staten Island and ending in Central Park. It attracts more than 25,000 run­ners from around the world. A memorial will be held Wednesday at the marathon's finish line. 
Perot attacks Clinton on radio show 
DALLAS 
To a folksy, up-tempo fiddle tune, Ross Perot began his new weekly radio show Sunday night with the words: "Good evening, this is Ross. We're gonna shake 'em up tonight." During the first broadcast of the national call-in show, "listening to America," Perot spent much of his time taking swipes at President Clinton. Last week, Perot urged his supporters to vote Republican this fall. Perot criticized Clinton's handling of the U.S. military in Haiti, Iraq and Somalia, saying the country has lost respect around the world. "The worst situation you can have is an inexperi­enced, insecure person risking other people's lives. If there was ever a time when we needed a strong president who understood war, it's right now," said Perot. Several callers disagreed with Perot, but most were supporters. Paul in Cleveland told Perot: 'Tm getting sick of all this liberal media bias. Why don't you buy NBC?" Perot responded with a laugh, "It's overpriced right now." 
Monday, October 10, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 3 


Son of former Prime Minister makes millions 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Margaret Thatcher's son made $15 million in commis­sions on British arms sales to Saudi Arabia while she was prime minister, The Sunday Times reported. 
The newspaper quoted from transcripts of tapes in which members of the Saudi royal family talk about Mark Thatcher's "excellent connec­tions" with the British govern­ment during negotiations for a $25 billion deal. 
The two-stage agreement was signed in 1985 and 1988. 
The newspaper said Mark Thatcher, 40, a former race­car driver who now lives in Dallas, made $15 million out of the deal -one of the workl's biggest arms sales. 
The newspaper said his ac­tions were not illegal, but Britain's opposition Labor Party on Sunday demanded that Conservative Prime Minister John Major, who suc­ceeded the now Lady Thatcher, appoint a committee to investi­gate. 

CLUB COLUMN 
October 10, 1994 

Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4:00 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop offentries to the Club Coordination Council office in room 206 LaForrune. 
1. 
The next gathering ofthe STUDENT ART FORUM will be this Thursday, October I 3d. at 7:00p.m. at the Snite Mu~um ofArt. We will be watching a movie on the life and art ofAndy Warhol. All are welcome to attend. Call Brigitte for more information at 4-3987. 

2. 
THE SKI CLUB will have a meeting on Thursday, October13, in 123 Nieuwland at 8:00p.m. Deposits of$100 for the trip to Crested Butte will be due and t-shirts and turtlenecks should be in, so bring your checkbooks! Questions, call Kevin Malone at 272-1352. 

3. 
Denise Summers, Admission Director at Purdue Veterinary School, will be having an informal presentation on applying to vet school. It will be at 7:00p.m. in 101 Galvin on Monday, October 10. Anyone interested should attend. 





35For 30 Days 
Unlimited Tanning 
Around the Corner 


SUllStudio 2i1S:1SUN 
Area's Newest & Friendliest Salon 
CMS 


)f.~..gd~~g,,Jour First Job ~h~~t~:»J§~;%~ollege ·, ·;:·.··:# 
November 2, 1994 8:30a.m.-4:00p.m. 
(Lunch Included) 
Monogram Room -Notre Dame ].A. C. C. 
Topics Covered 
•Getting 
you act together •The four job search methods 

•Self 
Assessment •The interview 

•Preparing 
your resume •Your career plan 


Cost: $9~0 per person 
(includes workshop, workbook; resume, & lunch) 
Call or write for registration form: 
CMS Management Service Co. 
401 E. Colfax Street 
South Bend, IN 4661 7 
(21 9)282-3980 
Yeltsin's behavior reproached 
By)OHNIAMS 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW 
Boris Yeltsin's untimely nap at Ireland's Shannon airport and his comic attempt at lead­ing a band in Germany have reawakened stories that the Russian president has a drink­ing problem. 
Yeltsin, 63, has been dogged throughout his political career by persistent stories of ill health and alcohol abuse. His staff and doctor insist that he is fine. 
But two former advisers and an opposition politician, in rare personal criticism, have now publicly reproached Yeltsin for his erratic behavior during two recent trips abroad. 
When Yeltsin returned from his summit with President Clinton on Sept. 30, he failed to get off his airplane for a meet­ing with Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds, who was left standing awkwardly on the tar­mac. 
Yeltsin said later he over­slept. His chief of staff, Sergei Filatov, added: "It's very hard to fit this president into any protocol. Yeltsin is Yeltsin." 
Last month, after an official champagne lunch in Germany, a red-faced Yeltsin stumbled, blew kisses to the crowd, sang boisterously and led a German band with a wild flourish. 
Yegor Yakovlev, editor of the weekly newspaper Obshchaya Gazeta and a former presiden­tial adviser, wrote in the cur­rent edition that Yeltsin was of­ten too drunk to handle state affairs. 
"Your bent for liquor is a se­cret only to yourself," Yakovlev said. 
Yakovlev described a meeting with the leaders of former So­viet republics. Before lunch, Yeltsin was fine. Afterwards, Yeltsin was in such poor shape that the "heads of state were leaving, trying not to look at each other." 
Yakovlev said press secretary Vyacheslav Kostikov had to beg photographers not to take pic­tures. "God forbid that Yeltsin is seen in such a state," he wrote. 
He dismissed Yeltsin's excuse that aides failed to wake him at 

~:I:G-:IP~Z •=&!! 
(OK, I'm joking about the money, but there are prizes!} Come and audition. Make us laugh. Make us cry. Leave us SPEECHLESS!! 


Shannon airport and his subse­quent joke that he would "punch them" for the over­sight. 
"The Russian people are say­ing, 'Why should one punch the other when he himself has hit the bottle on his way,"' Yakovlev said. 
He also wrote that Yeltsin's behavior was an embarrass­ment. "We were ashamed to watch the episodes shot in Germany when the president acted as a conductor," he said. 
In an interview with German television last November, Yeltsin admitted that he did oc­casionally imbibe, but never to excess. "I never drink so much that I get drunk," he said. 
But a Communist lawmaker last week disagreed. 
"He is seriously suffering from alcoholism and is inca­pable of governing the state," Viktor Ilyukhin told parliament. Yeltsin's behavior abroad, he said, "put shame on Russia." 
Gennady Burbulis, a former first deputy prime minister and aide to Yeltsin, said the inci­dents at Shannon and in Ger­many could not be ignored. 

Monday October 10, 1994 • 7:30p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium South Bend, Indiana Tickets available at Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office, and Tracks (Campus Shoppes, South Bend) Charge at 219-235-9190 or 1-800-537-6415 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October 10, 1994 
Air Force Friendly fire meeting planned Founders 
spewed radiation 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY 
The Air Force simulated nu­clear reactor meltdowns in the Utah desert in 1959, spewing radiation clouds into the air, The Desert News reported Sunday. 
The eight tests were con­ducted at Dugway Proving Grounds, the site of dozens of chemical, biological and ra­dioactive tests during the Cold War, said the newspaper, which reviewed government documents obtained through the Freedom of Information Act. 
The documents showed that sensors tracked radiation clouds up to 20 miles down­wind and across a 210-square­mile area. The newspaper reported, however, that the clouds spread and at least two small towns in northwestern Utah may have been in their path. 
Based on government fig­ures, the newspaper estimated that the total amount of radia­tion released was 14 times higher than that emitted dur­ing the Three Mile Island reac­tor disaster in 1979 near Harrisburg, Pa. 
Experts were divided on the danger to the public. 
Daniel Hirsch, former direc­tor of a nuclear policy institute at the University of California at Santa Cruz, said the tests may have caused "tens to hundreds" of cases of cancer downwind. 
Richard Wilson, a Harvard University physics professor who specializes in nuclear reactor safety, said there was little or no risk to residents downwind. 
The tests were conducted as the Air Force and the Atomic Energy Commission were at­tempting to develop a nuclear­powered aircraft. They decid­ed they should assess the haz­ards of the craft's reactor melting down. 
In other tests from 1949 to 1952, the energy commission, Army Chemical Corps and Air Force conducted six tests of radiation-spreading devices in Utah. Radioactive particles were loaded onto cluster devices, then dropped from about 15,000 feet, the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress. reported last year. 


FOR... WEEKENDS/HOLIDAYS BIRTHDAYSIWEDDINGS & HOME COOKIN'! 
Bod< ecrly for the tdidays and SiNe! Call today for Cl.lf1'ent ION fares andavailable dates. 

CouncilTravel 
1153 North Oearbom Chlct!lgO, IL 60610 

311•951•0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 

By PAUL QUEARY 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 

As the U.S. military mobilizes against the threat of another Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, the Air Force prepares for hearings on the "friendly fire" deaths that resulted from the last war with Iraq. 
Five Air Force officers are charged in the downing of two 
U.S. helicopters over Iraq on April 14. Investigative hearings that are the military equivalent of a grand jury convene Tues­day at Tinker Air Force Base, where four of the officers are based. 
Twenty-six people died when American F-15 fighter planes shot down the Blackhawk heli­copters, mistaking them for Soviet-made Iraqi Hinds. 
The officers were members of an Airborne Warning and Con­trol System radar plane moni­toring a restricted flight zone established to protect Kurds from Iraqi air attack. 
An Air Force report alleges the AWACS crew failed to tell fighter pilots that the heli­copters were American, failed to ensure the aircraft used the right identification codes and failed to monitor the no-fly zone properly. 
Maj. Douglas Martin, Maj. Lawrence Tracey, Capt. Jim Wang, 1st Lt. Joseph Halcli and 2nd Lt. Ricky Wilson are charged with dereliction of duty. All have denied criminal conduct and said their actions were based on training. 
"I am deeply disappointed and outraged that I have been accused of criminal offenses," Tracey. the mission crew com­mander, said in a statement last month. "I feel great sad­ness for the families of the per­sons killed in this tragic ac­cident. However, I did nothing wrong." 
Martin, who is based at Lang­ley Air Force Base in Virginia, has said the AWACS crew did not know the helicopters were still flying. He said in a state­ment the crew assumed the pi­lots had followed standard pro­cedure in the security zone and landed. 
The helicopters carried 15 Americans and 11 foreigners who had worked with the Kur­dish minority in Iraq since the Persian Gulf War in 1991. 
After the hearings, which could take weeks, Lt. Gen. Stephen Croker will decide if 
the five officers will be court­martialed, disciplined or cleared. 
Dereliction of duty carries a maximum punishment of dis­missal, forfeiture of two-thirds of all pay for three months and confinement lJP to three months. 
Lt. Col. Randy W. May, one of the fighter pilots, was charged with negligent homicide and dereliction of duty. His case will be heard at a separate hearing. 
continued from page 1 
'85) and Addie Cashore (SMC '70) head the program as Director and Assistant Directors of Alumnae Relations, respectively. 
"In addition to planning Founders' Week activities, the Student Alumnae Association organizes 'Party with the Plaid' and the annual Le Mans Hall tree-trimming party, and we are also working on vari­ous second semester activi­ties," Sanford said. 








PRE-VET LUB 
presents:Denise Summers, Admissions Director, Purdue Veterinary School 
"Getting Into That School" 
Monday, October 10 7:00p.m. 101 Galvin 
"If I am virtuous and worthy, for whom should I not maintain proper concern?" CONFUCIUS 
"The first point of courtesy must always be truth:' 
EMERSON 


"A zero dialer is a zero indeed:' 
POLITENESSMAN 



Monday, October 10, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Cedras to relinquish power to Aristide today 
leaving office and I think that as a practical matter that they will be leaving the country," he said upon arriving in Jerusalem. 
Parishioners at St. Gerard Roman Catholic church cheered when the Rev. Gerard Jean­Juste, an official in the Aristide government that was toppled three years ago, announced Cedras' imminent departure. 
"Tomorrow we should hear that Cedras has left," Jean­Juste said. "But don't clap your hands too much. There is still much work to do." 
Under a U.S.-Haitian agree­ment that averted an invasion, Cedras and Biamby have to leave power by Saturday. 
Haitian sources said Cedras was working Sunday on final preparations for the power transfer. 
A leading business backer of Cedras told The Associated Press that Cedras' continued presence in Haiti was neces­sary to assure Aristide's oppo­nents they would be safe from retribution under the new civil­ian administration. 
Other close supporters have told the military leader that he, his wife, Yannick, and three children should leave the coun­try, at least for a brief period. 
In a sermon, Jean-Juste ac­cused Haiti's military leaders of "sucking the blood of the peo­ple before going into hiding" by taking with them wealth ob­tained through corruption. 
HEIDI-­

REACH FOR THE STARS! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, LISA, KARL 
&EREK 

By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras will step down Monday as Haiti's military leader, clearing the way for exiled President Jean­Bertrand Aristide's homecom­ing. But violence against Aris­tide supporters continued Sun­day when a bus plowed into a pro-democracy march, killing 14 people. 
Cedras will transfer power to the army's No. 2 commander, Maj. Gen. Jean-Claude Duper­val, under a plan approved Sat­urday in Washington by Haitian officers and representatives of exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, said Col. Jean-Robert Gabriel, a spokesman for the 
THE 
DAME 


Haitian high command. 
Also set to leave is Brig. Gen. Philippe Biamby, the army chief of staff and a leader of the September 1991 coup that ousted Aristide. The resigna­tions would pave the way for Aristide's expected return on Saturday. 
Gabriel, speaking to reporters from the second-floor balcony of army headquarters, said the ceremony would be held Mon­day morning. He declined to elaborate. 
Cedras met for 45 minutes Sunday with Lt. Gen. Hugh Shelton, the U.S. military com­mander in Haiti. He also met with provisional President Emile Jonaissant. Details of the discussions weren't disclosed. 
Outside the capital in the 
southern town of Djimenzen, a bus plowed into pro-Aristide marchers Sunday, killing 14 people. U.S. Special Forces offi­cers on the scene said the bus driver deliberately ran down the marchers. It wasn't imme­diately known if there were ar­rests. 
Aristide supporters also were saddened by news Sunday that an outspoken pro-Aristide artist, Stevenson Magloire, was beaten to death in broad day­light. There were no immediate arrests in that incident. 
Defense Secretary William Perry and Gen. John Sha­likashvili, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had met with Cedras on Saturday in Port-au­Prince, but U.S. officials had no immediate coml!lent on Cedras' 
f10X/NG 



elebrate a 

resignation date. 
A Clinton administration offi­cial said Cedras indicated he was going to resign in the next few days. The official, speaking Sunday on condition of anonymity, said that "Nothing is clear until he does it." 
Perry and Shalikashvili did not discuss whether Cedras would leave the country, al­though U.S. officials have said they expect he eventually will do so. Cedras has vowed to re­main in Haiti. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said the transition would "pick up even more momentum and steam" this week, although he couldn't confirm when Cedras and Bi­amby would leave. 
"I am confident they'll be 

page6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October I 0, 1994 

Congress Commentary: Iraq threatening Kuwait 
By BARRY SCHWEID tion continued, some of it with­gression will be met head-on. scored the message. Associated Press in the Pentagon. And Israel, which Iraq attacked Critics of the Reagan and
passes final 
bills of year 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Large portions of the Califor­nia desert will be preserved and Persian Gulf veterans with "undefmable illnesses" will be paid under legislation approved in some of the final acts of the 103rd Congress. 
The Senate also approved a string of last-minute bills, all sent to President Clinton for his signature, on which unani­mous agreement had been reached before adjourning Saturday. Congress plans to return briefly for a special post-election session devoted to ratification of a world trade pact. 
The House completed its reg­ular business shortly after midnight Friday. 
A bill that would have allowed governors to control the amount of interstate garbage coming into their states fell by the wayside. Supporters said one senator had put a hold on the legisla tion, blocking-its passage. 
The desert bill will create the largest wilderness area outside of Alaska, putting 6.6 million acres under increased federal protection. Two new national parks would be created as well as a 1.5 million-acre national preserve in the desert area of southeastern California. 
Most of the land already be­longs to the federal govern­ment. 

The lessons of 1990 are play­ing out in the Clinton ad­ministration's direct and pow­erful response to the massing of Iraqi troops near the Kuwaiti border. There is no whiff of compromise, no diplomatic ambiguity, no teasing over­tures. 
Nor is the administration wasting any time trying to read Saddam Hussein's mind. 
"I would counsel looking at the facts and reacting to the facts," said Secretary of State Warren Christopher in Jerusalem at the start of an­other burst of shuttle diplomacy that includes a stop in Kuwait. 
The facts are that Iraq is making another ominous push toward Kuwait. And the White House believes that is reason enough to respond. 
"I am not sure how valuable speculation is," Christopher said Sunday. But the specula-
Maybe Iraq figured rushing parts of two divisions to the border would cause the U.N. Security Council to buckle and lift a painful trade embargo and a ban on oil purchases. 
Or, like the Romans did with bread and circuses, maybe Saddam is trying to distract his people from shortages and other deprivations. 
Where the Bush administra­tion tried diplomatic reconcilia­tion -symbolized by Ambas­sador April Glaspie's assur­ances to the Iraqi leader that the United States would not in­terfere in inter-Arab affairs ­the Clinton administration has spoken directly and forcefully to Saddam. 
In clear language, it has told Saddam his thrust toward the border would not intimidate the United States or the U.N. Secu­rity Council into easing sanc­tions imposed on Baghdad dur­ing the Persian Gulf War. Ag-





WOW!! 
Kate is 20!!! 
with Scud missiles, would be protected. 
President Clinton said Friday that another attempt to annex Kuwait, which Iraq considers to be its 19th repubHc, would be a "grave mistake." And Christo­pher told the Iraqis on Sunday they "would pay a tremendous price if they were foolish enough to miscalculate again." 
The rush of troops, planes and warships to the gulf under-Bush administrations have blamed Washington for Sad­dam's miscalculation in 1990. The United States had extended hundreds of millions of dollars in agricultural credits to Iraq. The country was removed from the State Department's terror­ism list. Diplomatic relations were re-established. And the United States soft-pedaled alle­gations of Saddam's poison gas attacks on Kurds. 


Valparaiso University, ranked #l in the Midwest Region by U.S. News & World Report (1994). invites you to learn about its School of Law. Located only an hour from Chicago in northwest Indiana, Valparaiso University School of Law offers a quality legal education in a close-knit campus setting. In addition to an excellent faculty, the law school offers students exceptional educational opportunities such as: 
• 
Summer 1993 -Justice Antonin Scalia, U.S. Supreme Court, instructor, summer law program in Cambridge, England. 

• 
Fall 1993 -7th Circuit Court of Appeals, live case deliberation, Valparaiso University School of Law Stride Courtroom. 

• 
Spring 1994-Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, U.S. Supreme Court, lecturer, Seegers Lecture Series. 

• 
Summer 1994-Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, U.S. Supreme Court, Instructor, summer law program in Cambridge, England. 

• 
Commencement 1995-Chief Justice William Rehnquist, U.S. Supreme Court, keynote speaker. 

• 
Summer 1995-Chief Justice Rehnquist, instructor, summer law program In Cambridge, England. 


Visit our recruiter to learn more about what Valparaiso University School of Law has to offer-including Stride Scholarships for students with outstanding credentials (full tuition+ $10,000 stipend)-or calll-800-262-0656 today! 
Visit our campus recruiter -Tuesday, Oct. 11 Call Career Services for time and location. 




CAMPUSES 
October 10, 1994 page 7 
Stanford women's self-defense course questioned 
discrimination in federally­course too limiting for the cur­Women-only funded schools, riculum. 
The university initially "It's important to let womenclass possibly attempted to thwart the prob­students study and train ... in a lem by changing the class list­single-sex environment," saidviolates Title IX ing from a Feminist Studies Estelle Freedman, professor of course to either a co-ed class or history at Stanford, to The
By Zoe Marin a single-sex physical education Stanford Daily. 
Assistant Campuses Editor 
class, thus eliminatng any con­In order to resolve the prob­
A women-only self-defense flicts with Title IX. lem, the university turned to course offered at Stanford However, the Women the Office of Civil Rights last University is awaiting a deci­Defending Ourselves Collective June to make the final decision sion from the Education that teaches the course stated concerning the course. The uni­Department's Office of Civil that the options weren't suit­versity and the Collective had to Rights to determine if the class able. construct separate reports stat­violates a federal gender dis­Although the course is one ing why the class should crimination restriction. part physical education, the remain open only to women. 
The controversy originated other two parts include discus­Although the university did last fall on the campus when a sions about violence against not agree completely with all student challenged the Feminist women and behavioral educa­that the Collective argued, they Studies course, arguing that it tion in social situations, thus did agree on the overall impor­violated Title IX, a federal making a distinction of it as tance and necessity of the regulation which outlawed sex only a physical education course for the community. 
Grade inflation starts UNR debate 
By MARCY DINIUS evaluations, and student satis­professors have been hesitant Campuses Editor faction and confidence building. to make a grade of C average, Yet Director of the university arguing that to do so would put 
With a significant increase in honors program Francis their students at a disadvantage the number of high grades be­Hartigan cited the problem's when other professors continue ing given in courses at the Uni­origins as possibly going back to grade more easily. versity of Nevada at Reno, the to the Vietnam War. Also, professors and students issue of grade inflation has be­"One of the ways a person have argued that if one univer­come an issue of debate among could avoid the draft was if he sity changes its grading stan­professors and students. was a student in good stand­dards while others remain the 
In the 1993 spring semester, ing," Hartigan said in UNR same, then its students would 
39.2 percent of grades given newspaper, the Sagebrush. suffer in comparison with other were 'A's, according to Grant "For professors, giving a stu­college students in the nation Stitt, chairman of the univer­dent low grades was like hand­whose higher grades would sity's criminal justice depart­ing him a rifle and sending him give them an advantage in ment. off to war. so people started graduate school admission and 
The number of 'B's that stu­loosening up on grades," the job market. dents received also increased, Hartigan said. Stitt proposed that an in­as did Cs which nearly doubled With the shift to a 2.0 GPA creased value is placed upon in frequency. now being below average, some graduate record exams to com­
Though the university con­colleges at UNR have raised pare schools and students, as a siders a C to be a grade reflect­their admission requirements. way of possibly negating the ing average work, many stu­The criminal justice depart­effects of grade inflation, yet dents and professors have come ment in the College of Arts and stressed that the true value of a to view 'B's as average. Sciences raised its minimum student's education is more 
Among possible reasons of­required GPA to 2.5 as did the important than the grade that fered by Stitt for this devalua­College of Education, while the may or may not reflect it. tion of higher letter grades College of Business increased Reporter Jason Hidalgo of the were the need for student re­the required average to 2.75. Sagebrush contributed to this tention, good marks in teacher In dealing with the situation, article. 
Sexual discrimination suit Berkeley's settled at Brown University 'Naked Guy' 
women's lawyer, Lynette
'Comparable arrested 
Labinger, said. Members of the women's vol­By EDWARD IMBUS

treatment and 
leyball and gymnastics teams Copy Editor 
claimed the school had violated 

support' reached 
the law. Andrew Martinez, more fa­They said the Brown's deci­mously known as the "Naked PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP)-At­sion to cut funding for the two Guy," has been arrested not 
for his customary walking ontorneys representing women teams in 1991 was representa­the University of California atathletes at Brown University tive of apattern of discrimina­
Berkeley campus au natural,
and lawyers for the school tion against all female athletes 
but for pelting police with 
Wednesday announced the set­at the school. 
pieces of concrete. UC Berkeley
tlement of a significant portion Police exercised an arrest war­
of a sexual discrimination law­But Brown's lawyers main­rant against Martinez on 
tained the school was being un­
suit. September 27 in Sproul Plaza 
fairly targeted by women an­while he was pushing a shop­Brown agreed to provide gered by necessary budget cuts ping cart filled with various "comparable treatment and in the athletic department. chunks of concrete. support" for female and male During opening arguments in The shirtless Martinez at­
athletes. the case Monday, attorney tempted to flee the scene, but 
the officers ran after him and 
tackled him. The warrant was
However, the female athletes Walter Conno'lly Jr. told a 
issued earlier in the week on are pursuing their challenge of U.S. District Court judge the September 23 when, according whether Brown meets require­school has "the pre-eminent to the UC Police, Martinez was ments of Title IX, a 1972 federal athletic program for women in standing on roof of the Chateau 
law which prohibits sexual dis­the country." House Co·-op off-campus and 
crimination at educational began throwing the concrete 
institutions receiving federal Funding for the two women's rocks at the police, while 
funds. teams was returned after a De­yelling, "Oink, oink, here piggy 
cember 1992 preliminary in­piggy." 
"This agreement will estab­junction issued in U.S. District Police stormed the co-op in 
Court and upheld by the First order to arrest him, but he suc­
lish Brown as a model for gen­
cessfully evaded police by hid­der equality in the treatment Circuit Court of Appeals in ing in the building and support of athletes," the April1993. 
The brief stated that women have a "preexisting disadvan­tage [because] women are at­tacked more often than men," said collective member Kirsten Daehler to The Stanford Daily. Daehler further stated that the course compensates for the past and present discrimination and is therefore justified under the Title IX. 
University officials expect the decision to be made by the Civil Rights Office within a few months after the brief was sub­mitted. 
"If the Office of Civil Rights is able to keep the same timeline they originally projected, then we may hear their response as soon as a month from now," said Daehler to the Stanford Daily. 
The class continues to be held at an off-campus location until the final decision comes in from the Civil Rights Office. 
Reporter Laura Shin of The Stanford Daily contributed to this article. 





VIEWPOINT 
pageS Monday, Ocotber I 0, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAJNr MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager JohoLucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ........•............. Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .....•.............. George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ..................•......... Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eliz.abeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Ediror, Accent Editor, Plfoto Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• THE WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
There's more than one poll that counts 
In the wake of this past Saturday's catastrophically disappointing "revenge bowl" in Boston, it seems an apt time to examine one of the intriguing aspects of Notre Dame's character. namely the incredible amount of collective ego invested in our football team. I realize that by even broaching this topic I open myself to all sorts of accusations of heresy and sacrilege, so to insure my continued physical safety I feel obligated to mention that I am as passionate about 
Chris Kratovil 


football as the next student on this cam­pus; I charged the field after Florida state and suffered bitter disappointment when a certain pair of field goals sailed through the uprights. 
Yet despite my enthusiasm for and interest in Notre Dame football I am still puzzled by the widespread perception­amongst both the general public and seemingly many students-that the overall welfare of this university and the performance of Lou Holtz's troops are somehow inexorably linked. Such is simply not the case and to maintain that Notre Dame's reputation is in any but the most superficial of ways dependent on the success of its athletic teams is to lessen the institution as a whole. 
It goes almost without saying that peo­ple at this school tend to lose all sense of perspective when it comes to football related matters. I suppose I fully real­ized this. at least in the abstract, last year when I heard the stories and saw the pictures of seniors sitting in their seats for literally hours after Gordon's infamous kick and staring blankly at the deserted field like so many shell shocked war veterans. But the underlying prob­lem with this lack of perspective didn't hit me until an experience of just a few weeks ago. 
In those sullen days following the Michigan game a few of my section mates and I were sitting around vicari­ously living our lives through half-inch tall Sega pixel people, until an obviously distraught individual came flying through the door demanding "Is it true? I heard a rumor that we're number 19!" Before anyone aware that this was actu­ally U.S. News and World Report's new academic rating for Notre Dame could say anything, a near riot ensued; "Screwed again by the pollsters!", "Those Catholic hating bigots!". "Who votes on those things anyway?" were just a few of the comments that accom­panied the prolonged wailing and gnashing of teeth. Finally, cooler heads prevailed and the assembled throng was convinced of the academic nature of the number 19 rating before any drastic actions, such as collective Waco-esque suicide or. worse yet, the printing of yet another obnoxious anti-polls t-shirt could occur. 
Unfortunately, the football-centric view of Notre Dame is, if anything, worse among the general public. I can't count the number of times that I've been somewhere back home with friends from other top echelon academic schools, and we've been presented with the inevitable question of "Where do you guys go to school?" Responding with the name of most top 25 colleges usually provokes something along the lines of "tough school". while answering Notre Dame, more often than not, garners an expression of admiration for our football team or a dumb _.question (e.g. "Were you at that Florida State game last year?" or "Do you know Ron Powlus?"). 
The problem with viewing Notre Dame through a football shaped prism is that such a perception distracts us from the aspects of this university that are truly special. There are numerous colleges that can field impressive football teams, yet I don't think there are many people outside of Tallahassee who would argue that Florida state is a truly exceptional university. The aspects that set Notre Dame apart really have very little to do with football and a whole lot to do with things like a sense of community, first rate academics and a genuine dedica­tion to the service of the greater good of mankind. I find it somewhat dishearten­ing that almost any given fan of Notre Dame can probably trace Lou Holtz's career from Arkansas to Minnesota to South Bend, yet only a select handful could answer equivalent question about father Hesburgh's life and work. 


As to the students themselves, letting the outcome of a football game dictate the quality of our social lives on any given weekend has a borderline absur­dist quality to it (I'm sure that we've all either heard or made comments along the lines of "Win and I'll party. Lose and I'll study."). The simple reality of the situation is that win, lose or tie we've all got to get up on Monday and go to class and that the score from Saturday is going to have absolutely no effect on my score on my next test. 
I do not mean to imply that Notre Dame football has not played an integral role in shaping the history, develop­ment, growth and identity of this univer­sity. Rather. I worry that instead of serving as a focal point for pride and spirit, rabid enthusiasm for football has a tendency to cloud our own percep­tions-and that of outsiders as well-as to the other and ultimately more signifi­cant merits of Our Lady's university. It is worthwhile to reflect on these under­lying values and merits possessed by this school when confronted with on the field setbacks. 
Kratovil is a sophomore government and international relations major. He lives in Flanner Hall. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• Dm.lNESBURY 

IIJEU, 7H8ANSWER ISlllTS.' I PLANN£1? MY 5e/VAT& CAMPAIGN, I /../N/30 UP MYAOVEKTISING T&AMt I RETURN£[} PHON/3 CAU.S, I 
RY.iT/3[) UPI 
~ 

!NW?E5TIN6. YOUKNOW, M!{)-{A/3/....-ROY, TH/3 aos&l< I lOOI< AT YOU ANV YOUR REaJRJ}, I... I ... 
I 

NEVER MIND. I'M'3UR£ 
WHAT? 

!~JUST 
t<IHAF

M/3. 
\ 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''Not a shred of evidence exists in favor of the idea that life is serious." 
-Brendan Gill 


--------~~~~------------------------------------------------------------­







Boston Massacre 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Boston College fans flood the field and hang on the goal post to celebrate Saturday's upset of Notre Dame. 

Boston College spoils Notre Dame :S season-again 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN SportS Editor 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. 

No David Gordon this time. In fact, Boston College's kicker didn't have to lace up a shoe for Saturday's 30-11 Eagle domination of Notre Dame in front of 44,500 at Alumni Stadium. 
No great comebacks, no last second field goals, no newfound heroes. There was a fme Boston College team and a pitiful group from that other Catholic university which looked far from itself. 
It was the worst loss by the Irish since Penn State's 35-12 win in 1991 and ended a school-record 16-game road winning streak. 
"We just flat got beat by a better football team," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. "We got beat in every facet of the game. 
"I knew this would be a long, hard year." 
It gets even longer for Irish fans. Notre Dame (4-2) will watch the national champi­onship picture from afar and great aspira­tions give way to the hope for seven wins-the magic number to qualify for the bowl coali­tion. 
Notre Dame dropped to No. 17 in the polls and the Eagles went from unranked to No. 24 
see IRISH I page 2 

• JocK STRIP 

A revolutionary victory for Boston College 
A
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. revered New Englander bel­lowed the warning from the belfry of the Old North Church. The Irish are coming! The Irish are coming! Proud patriots dug in Associate Sports

Editor

to defend their turf against the ambush. 
Here came mighty Notre Dame, march­ing up Heartbreak Hill in rigid formation, battle-tested and craving redemption. 
Boston College fielded a ragged bunch, twice beaten in three games and clinging to the memory of last year's "Shot Heard 'Round the World." 
Wearing mediocrity as camouflage, the Eagles emerged from the shadows Saturday to stun Notre Dame. 
Again. Minus the drama. David Gordon's last second heroics were 
not necessary this time. Ironically, his musket misfired twice Saturday. 
see KELLY I page 3 
FOOTBALL 

WEARY WARRIORS 
• Justin Goheen (right) and the Irish defense spent a lot of time on the field durin Saturday's defeat. 
-page 3 

Monday, October 10, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 2 



Irish offense tries to look forward 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. 
He wouldn't sit. 
Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus dropped his duffie bag on the chair and stood while reporters gathered around him to chat about the worst game of his college career. 
He drummed his fmgers on the table­top, eager to get the hell out of town. 
But first, Powlus had to explain to the world why he completed only 5 of 21 passes for 50 yards, why he threw two interceptions, and, most importantly, why he didn't orchestrate the expected Notre Dame miracle. 
"(Boston College) took away time, that was the main thing," Powlus said. "A lot of times routes were open, or about to come open and I ran out of time." 
Thanks for that problem can be spread equally between a swarming Boston College pass rush and an anemic Irish offensive line. Or a swarming pass rush because of an anemic offensive line. 
Sophomore tackle Mike Doughty stayed home to nurse an injured ankle and senior captain Ryan Leahy played with a still-sore knee. 
Depth has been a problem up front for the Irish all season and it was magnified Saturday. 
Powlus was sacked four times and spent much of the afternoon evading Eagles. 
He also forced a few passes, two of which fell softly into the hands of Boston College safety Terence Wiggins. A third should-have-been interception bounced off his chest. 
"They did a good job in the secondary of being in the area," Powlus said. "There weren't going to be big plays made on them." 


But there were plenty made by them. 
Defensive end Mike Mamula pestered the Irish offense all day, slowing a ground game that had been gaining momentum in recent weeks. 
Tailback Randy Kinder had his fourth consecutive 100-yard game, rushing for 143 yards on 22 carries. But no other Irish runner managed more than 34 yards on the ground. 
"You've got to be able to run the foot­ball," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. "The team that runs the ball the best will usually win the football game and that was certainly true today." 

But he insisted that the loss only forti­fied the team's resolve to cure the woes and return to college football's elite. Powlus is the key to that resurgence. 
"Sometimes you have to take a step back to take a step forward," Holtz said. "And we will take a couple of steps for­ward." 
The only forward progress Saturday was Powlus, finally finished explaining himself, striding toward the bus and away from the memory of his worst day . 
• GAME Nons 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Assisstant Sports Editor 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. 
Do two straights wins over Notre Dame make for a consistent "pro­gram?" 
Not according to Justin Goheen. 
Hounded by a Boston sportswriter to annoint the Eagles as a national power, Goheen stood strong with his opinion. 
"I don't think their program is close to ours," Goheen said. "They have been good teams the past few years but a program is built on tradition. They just don't have it yet to establish a program." 
If not a top-notch program, what about a rival. 
No, said Irish coach Holtz. 
"We don't have any rivals here except USC. Every game is a big game here." 
HOBBLED HOGS: An already banged-up offensive line was not helped by Saturday game, and not just their confidence level. Although Ryan Leahy proclaimed his knee to be fine, guard Dusty Ziegler injured his ankle. Although Holtz named him a likely starter against BYU the injury may limit his practice time, something a struggling offensive line needs badly. 
PENN STATE WANNABES: Boston College has always recruited the same type of player as Penn St.. Now they are trying to duplicate the feats of the Nittany Uons. 
The Eagles were the first team to be the Irish at home since Joe Paterno's boys did it in 1991. They also defeated the Irish by the biggest margin since that 1991 debacle at Happy Valley. 
Before the Eagles, the last team to defeat the Irish two years in a row, was, you guessed it, Penn St. 

Irish 
continued from page 1 
"After watching them play it's hard to believe they are 2-2," Holtz said. "I think Boston College played there best football by far. Any loss is disappointing, whether its it's in the last second or not in the last second. 
"This hurts." 
And it hurt to watch. 
Notre Dame lost the battle of the bulge. They were beat on the offensive and defen­sive fronts and embarrassed on special teams. 
The Boston College offense rushed for 244 yards on 61 rushes. Justice Smith was the front-runner with 27 carries for 144 yards and two touchdowns. Eagle quarterback Mark Hartzell was the consummate role­player. He made no mistakes and passed for 83 yards on 11-of-19 passing. 
Irish quarterback Ron Powlus, hampered slightly by a groin injury, had the worst game of his career. The sophomore stumbled to 5­for-21 passing for 50 yards and two intercep­tions. Not helping the cause was a porous offensive line which allowed four sacks and kept Powlus on the run all day. 
Eagle defensive end Mike Mamula led the charge with two sacks and three tackles for a loss. He harassed Powlus and despite 143 yards rushing by Randy Kinder, helped the Eagles stymie the Notre Dame ground game. 
"They took away my time. That was the main thing," Powlus said. "We obviously didn't play the kind of football we can play." 
There wasn't one play which turned the tide of the game and handed the Eagles the momentum. It was a slow, methodical club­bing. 
If any particular play did stand out, it was on Boston College's first scoring drive mid­way through the opening quarter. Boston College took over after a Robert Farmer fum­ble and marched to the Irish 16. But the Notre Dame defense tightened and it appeared the Eagles would settle for a Gordon field goal. But holder Matt Hasselbeck took the snap and rumbled eight yards for a first down. On the next play David Green ran for an 8-yard score. · 
"We studied the film and we thought we had something," Henning said about the fake field goal. "It was not going to be run unless they gave us the look we wanted." 
It was one of many mistakes by the Notre Dame special teams which also helped the Eagle attack after getting flagged for rough­ing the punter earlier in the quarter. 
It was Notre Dame who should have had the emotion and desire. Gordon's field goal and Boston College's 41-39 win last year ended a perfect season for the Irish. But the Eagles were the inspired, perhaps to prove that last season was no fluke. 
It seemed to take until the fourth quarter before Notre Dame realized the Eagles were for real. Down 24-3, Powlus led a nine-play, 56-yard drive which ended with Kinder's 15­yard score. After Derrick Mayes nabbed a two-point conversion pass the Irish showed their frrst pulse since the opening quarter. 
But Powlus threw his second interception after the Irish defense held, and on its next possession Notre Dame turned the ball over on downs. 
National title hopes are dead, and possibly the motivation to play the rest of the season. Notre Dame is unfamiliar playing for pride alone. 
"We are going to get back on top," Holtz said. "And we are going to get back on top sooner than people think." 
After the Irish lost to Penn State in 1991, Holtz declared the season over and started preparing his team for the following year. Notre Dame's coach wouldn't say if that was the case now. 
"Our season is not over," defensive lineman Brian Hamilton said. 
The season has just begun for the Eagles. Henning called this win as big as his Super Bowl triumph as an assistant coach with the Washington Redskins. 
"I said to the players after practice yester­day that playing Notre Dame in October in New England on a beautiful day, savor it. .. don't squander it. 
"And they didn't." 

• GRADED POSITION ANALYSIS 
QuARTERBACK D 
Grant~d, R~n Powlus had no protection whatsoever, but 5 for 21 and just 50 yards IS ent1rely unacceptable. Too many passes sailed out of bounds and the interceptions were costly. Have you ever seen a FS. 
RUNNING BACKS 8 If there was a bright spot, this was it. That's not saying much though. Absence of Becton and Zellars, especially his blocking, was obvious. Kinder did his best and so did Edwards. Not enough chances. 
RECEIVERS 0 
Terrible patterns. Not a good sense of sideline, although play selection didn't help. Another brilliant catch by Mayes on conversion play and some passable downfield blocking, but too many drops. 
OFFENSIVE LINE C-
Left side of .the line was horrendous. Right side was merely average. Gave Powlus no t1me to set and follow through. Only saving grace was some decent run-blocking at times. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 0 
One sack was about all the pressure they generated. Were blown off the line by the Eagles much the same way Notre Dame dominated Florida St. in 1993. Unit that appeared to gel last week was invisible. 
LINEBACKERS C 
Biggest threat entering the game was tight end Pete Mitchell. He caught just one pass for four yards. Along wiSpecialth safeties, credit goes to guys like Justin Goheen. 
SECONDARY 0 
Coverage was bad, tackling was even worse. Three of B.C.'s touchdowns runs could have been stopped short of the end zone by run-supporting DB's. The only thing they supported, beside coverage of Mitchell, was the emerging tradition of weak Irish backfields. 
SPECIAL TEAMS F 
The best thing that could be said was that the Irish didn't fumble any kicks. A 
missed field goal, a blocked punt, a allowed fake field goal run, and no threat of breaking a return all combined to made for an embarssing performance. 
Once the strength of the Irish, now an obvious weakness. 
COACHING 0 Never thought this would be the case, but Lou Holtz and staff appeared over­matched: Got away from the bread and butter rushing attack. Special teams preparation was weak, as was the intensity level of the team. Playing in front of a hostile crowd against a team that cost you the national championship last season should be motivation eno!Jgh. But it wasn't and Holtz didn't change that. 
OVERALL GRADE 1.26 
Worst performance by an Irish team since the 1991 Penn St game. No inten­
sity and poor execution makes for such games. Utterly dominated at the line 
of scrimmage and skill positions were off badly. Continued turnover problem 
needs to be corrected. 

page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Monday, October 10, 1994 



Don't fault the defense 
Lack of offense keeps defense on field too long 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
Justin Goheen didn't want to talk about a lack of emotion and certainly didn't want to discuss the Boston College's offense. 
He had seen enough of the Eagle attack on Saturday, too much. He wanted to get on the bus, get to the airport and fly home. He would talk about Notre Dame's 30-11 loss, later. Maybe. 
Goheen had few words and fewer answers. 
"I'm not going to make ex­cuses," the inside linebacker said. "We were ready mentally. We were. That wasn't it at all. We were prepared. They just beat us. It was that simple." 
Nothing is that simple, espe­cially when the Irish defense looked like a group on the rise after strong performances in wins over Stanford, Michigan State and Purdue. 
But then again maybe it is that simple. One need only to look at the clock to see why the Irish defense allowed 350 total 
TEAM  RECORD  
1. Florida (44)  5-0-0  
2. Nebraska (12)  6-0-0  
3. Penn St. (2)  5-0-0  
4. Colorado (4)  5-0-0  
5. Michigan  4-1-0  
6. Auburn  6-0-0  
7. TexasA&M  5-0-0  
8. Miami  4-1-0  
9. Washington  4-1-0  
10.Aiabama  6-0-0  
11. Florida St.  4-1-0  
12.Texas  4-1-0  
13. Colorado St.  6-0-0  
14.Arizona  4-1-0  
15. N. Carolina  4-1-0  
16. Kansas St.  4-0-0  
17. Notre Dame  4-2-0  
18. Syracuse  5-1-0  
19. Virginia Tech.  5-1-0  
20. Washington St.  4-1-0  
21. Utah  5·0-0  
22. Oklahoma  3-2-0  
23. Wisconsin  3-2-0  

24. Boston College 2-2·0 25.Duke 5-0-0 
yards. "We were on the field a long time," Goheen said. 
Boston College controlled the ball 38:24 compared to 21:36 for the Irish. Notre Dame play­ers seemed a step slow, and missed key tackles, a sure sign of fatigue. 
But it was also strength, which Boston College showed more of on both sides of the ball. 
"I thought they outmanned us, especially in the first half," Brian Hamilton said. 
But it was the first half when the Irish defense performed up to par. They held the Eagles to a lone score but weren't helped the rest of the way by an of­fense which had four offensive turnovers and seven drives of one or no first downs. 
The Eagles ran 61 times for 244 yards right at the heart of the Irish defense. 
"I was surprised that they ran the ball that well," Lou Holtz said. "That was the one thing that I asked before the ball­game, whether we could stop the running between the tack-


NO BC  3 0  0 7  0 14  8 9  11 30  
TEAMSTATS First Downs16 Rushes-Yards  NO 19 35-160  BC 61-244  

• STATISTICS 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Justin Goheen (54) and Brian Hamilton watch as Omari Walker scores a first half touchdown. 
les." ~oston College dared the 
The question was answered Irish to stop the run, mostly in the worst sort of way. going with seven men blocking 
Justice Smith looked like up front. It was a task Goheen Emmitt Smith, going for 144 and Co. were up for in the first yards on 27 carries, 134 com-half. but in the later quarters ing in the second half. time was not on their side. 
Passing Yards 50 106POINTS 10us 
Comp-AH-Int 5-21-2 12-20-0 Return Yards 26 37
1527 1 
Punts-Avg 5-34 5-45 Fumbles-Lost 2-2 1-1
1461 2 
Penalties-Yds 3-41 6-67 Possession Time 21:36 38:24
1427 4 
INDIVIDUAL STATS RUSHING -Notre Dame: Kinder 22-143 TO,
1410 5 
Edwards 4-34, Farmer 1-5, Powlus 8-(minus 22). Boston Collage: Smith 27-144 TO, Green 17­
1251 7 
61 TO, Walker 7-11 TO, Hartsell8-11, Grice 1-9, Hasselback 1-8. 
1193 9 
• SCORING SUMMARY
1106 10 
FIRST QUARTER 
1104 13 
Notre Dame 3, Boston College 0 (7 plays, 31 yards, 2:48) 
1072 12 
11: 12-Stefan Schroffner con­nected on a 27-yard field goal at­tempt. Key Play: Brian Hamilton 
1022 11 
1009 3 
recovered a fumble at the Boston College 31.
785 15 
SECOND QUARTER 
747 23 
Boston College 7, Notre Dame 3 
709 6 
(5 plays, 20 yards, 1 :57) 14:27-David Green put B.C.
696 14 
ahead with an eight-yard touch­down run (David Gordon PAT).
555 19 
Key Play: A fake field goal that
540 8 
resulted in an eight-yard first down run by Matt hasselbeck. 
461 21 
THIRD QUARTER 
449 20 
B.C.14, Notre Dame 3 
407 22 
(9 plays, 51 yards, 3:33) 8:37-0mari Walker scored from
214 25 
the two (Gordon PAT). Key Play: Clarence Cannon hit Greg Grice
202 16 
on a reverse pass for a first down 
at the Notre Dame five. 
183 24 
113 
B.C. 21, Notre Dame 3 
(7 plays, 52 yards, 2:27) 
110 
But defensive coordinator Bob Davie wouldn't blame the offense for keeping his unit on the field. 
"This whole thing is a team loss, there's no question about that," Davie said. 


Kelly
PASSING-Notre Dame: Powlus 5-21-50-2. Boston College: Hartsell 11-19-83-0, Cannon 

continued from page 1
1-1-23-0. 

But it didn't matter. When the Eagles saw
RECEIVING: Notre Dame: Mayes 2-29, Miller 
1-9, Sollmann 1-8, Edwards 1-4. Boston 

the whites of Irish eyes, they fired. And they
Collage: Grice 4-58, Watson 2-16, Smith 2-10, 

hit, bruising Notre Dame's egos and killing
Green 1-3, Laro 1-8, Cannon 1-7, Mitchell 1-4. their championship hopes. 
TACKLES: Notre Dame: Goheen 10, Wynn 8, 

Those eyes were ringed in red just a few 
Gibson 7, Sample 7, Wooden 7, Grasmanis 7, 

hours later, unwilling witnesses to a slaugh­
Magee 7, Nau 5, Moore 5, Taylor 4, Dansby 3 (1 sack), Davis 2, Kinder 2, Gibbs 1, Saddler 1, 
ter. 
Berry 1, Hamilton 1 (1 lumble rec.), Graham 1, 

"Sometimes you've got to take a step back 
Babey 1, Wagasy 1, Maiden 1. Boston 

to take a step forward," Irish general Lou
College: Shorter 8, Morabito 7, Boyd 7 (1/2 sack), Mamula 6 (2 sacks), Wiggins 5 (2 int), 

Holtz said. 
Sulluvan 5, Half 4 (1/2 sack), Reed 3, 

Saturday was more than a step back for 
Gianacakos 2 (1 sack), Maye 2, Porter 1, Clifford 

Notre Dame. It was a full-fledged retreat. 
1, Green 1. 

Despair seethed from every pore on Holtz's gaunt frame as he and the rest of the 
Irish contingent hurried to the buses so they  
could leave the memory of the Boston  
3:57--Justice Smith scored on a  Massacre behind.  
seven-yard run. Key Play: David  "We just have to be able to run the ball  
Green's 18-yard run to the Notre  better," Holtz said.  
Dame32.  Win if by land, lose if by air. That has long  
been Notre Dame's motto.  
FOURTH QUARTER  Only Randy Kinder ran with any force and  
B.C. 24, Notre Dame 3  Ron Powlus threw almost as many comple­ 
(9 plays, 56 yards, 3:54)  tions to Boston College players as he did to  
14:11-Gordon hit a 37-yard field  his own. A hobbled and sometimes horren·  
goal. Key Play: Smith's 38-yard run to the Notre Dame 21.  dous offensive line didn't help the Irish move by land or air. As a result, the 1994 season fizzled to a  
B.C. 24, Notre Dame 11 (8 plays, 67 yards, 2:12) 11 :59-Randy Kinder scored on a 15-yard run (Two-point conversion  midseason finish. Despite their appeal to the New Year's Day bowlers, the Irish could find themselves beg· ging for scraps from the Bowl Coalition's table.  
pass from Ron Powlus to Derrick  A meaningless Fiesta Bowl or some such  
Mayes). Key Play: Powlus hit  insignificance is not the way Notre Dame  
Mayes for a 17 -yard gain to the  likes to conclude its fall tours.  
Eagles' 36.  But that is suddenly the reality, with little  
more than respect and the revival of a win­ 
B.C. 30, Notre Dame 11 (9 plays, 46 yards, 3:26)  ning attitude to play for this year. "At the end of that ballgame, I made a  ••  
2:17-8mith sealed the game with  committment to myself, my players and  
a six-yard touchdown run (Two­ coaches and to Notre Dame," Holtz said.  
point conversion attempt failed).  "We are going to get this goddawg thing  
Key Play: Smith's 18 yard run to  turned around."  
the Notre Dame 15.  They better do it soon or they'll spend this  
New Year's barefoot and hungry at Valley  
Forge.  


The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 

.... 
The Observer/John Bingham Mike Mamula forces Irish tailback Robert Farmer to fumble in the first quarter . 
• fROM THE LENS 

Boston College 30 Notre D,ame II
. . . ... . 
Alumni Stadium October 8, 1994 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Boston College tight end Pete Mitchell celebrates Saturday's upset. 

.... 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Mike Mamula stuffs Irish running back Randy Kinder, who finished with 143 yards. Derrick Mayes flips after his two-point cqnversion catch in the fourth quarter. 
page 9 Monday, October 10, 1994 

• RANDOM MEANDER!NGS 
Like a kid again 
I was in the middle of read------­
ing a book for freshman sem· inar (I can't remember if it was The Paradoxical Nature ofSpam or Pocket Lint: St. Augustine's Views on the Matter) when it hit me; the best years of my life are behind me. 
Being a kid was great. Jenny Shank Children's books are straight-Accent Columnist forward. The little train always could. He didn't say, "I think I can! That is. if I do, in fact, exist. But does the hill exist? And does it matter anyway, because really, this whole event is so insignificant in the grand scheme of things ..." The little engine did what he had to do went on with his life. Plus, there are a lot more pictures in The little Engine That Could than there are in those philosophy books. I'd like to see the il­lustrations that would go along with some of the books I've read this year. "Here's a picture of a guy thinking. Now he's thinking really hard. Here's a picture of the nature of evil. What do you mean there's nothing there? Stop being difficult!" 
I long to return to the days when my brother and I would stage monumental battles between Star Wars figures and Strawberry Shortcake dolls. 
Princess Leia: "Watch out, Luke! Blueberry Muffin's brigade is approaching!" 
Luke: "Look, Han is going to have to take care of it, because the Peculiar Purple Pie-Man of Porcupine Peak is threatening my left flank." 
Princess Leia: "Han's out guarding the Ewok village from Lemon Meringue. I'll take My Little Pony and go warn him." 
C-3PO: "Master Luke! Yoda has been cap­tured by Malibu Barbie!" 
Yes, those were the days. In elementary school, all the girls used to wear plastic, hole­filled "jelly shoes." which could be purchased for a dollar a pair at K-Mart. Plastic was a high fashion item back then. We wore armfuls of jelly bracelets and gaudy plastic charm neck­laces. These went well with our vibrantly col­ored "jams" -shorts made out of fabric that looked as if it had been used to clean up the explosion at the fluorescent-dye factory. We completed the look with knee-high socks and leg warmers. Then we put our hair in side pony tails and went around talking like Valley Girls, asking people to "gag" us with kitchen utensils. 
When I was a kid, "break-dancing" was pop­
ular. 
Billy: "Look Mom, I'm moon walking!" 
Mom: "Honey, you're just walking back­
wards." 
Billy: "No! Look at me, I'm Michael Jackson!" 
Mom: "Billy, stop writhing on the ground like 
a worm this instant!" 
A slew of break-dancing movies were pro­
duced, including the ever-famous "Beat Street 
5: Breakin' To Save the Rec Center." 
When I was little, I would set my alarm for 
5:30a.m. on Saturday mornings so that I could 
catch all of my favorite cartoons. The TV exec­
utives planned the cartoon schedule so that all 
of the really good cartoons came on the air 
before dawn. The morning started off with 
"The Shirt-Tales" and "Bugs Bunny," and the 
programming slowly deteriorated throughout 
the day until "The Monchee-chees" and 
"Poochie" came on. I always hated Poochie. 
When I was a kid, my homework consisted of 
coloring a few things and adding a few num­
bers together. Then, I was free to play until 
bed time. We used to make up games with cre­
ative rules. 
Bobby: "I tagged you! Now I am the lizard 
King!" 
Susie: "No fair! You have to touch base and 
do the monkey dance around the apple tree 
before you can be the Lizard King!" 
Bobby: "No you don't, silly! All you have to 
do to be the Lizard King is do a handstand and 
count to ten in Wookie language!" 
It didn't take much to excite us back then. 
The anticipation of having pop with dinner had 
us bouncing off the walls. It didn't take much 
to entertain us back then, either. Just a shaker 
of salt and some garden slugs kept us going for 
hours. "Ooh, look at it fizz!" 
I don't feel like reading_Plato's Observations On Drying Paint. Instead, I think I'll hang out with my inner child. Hey, can you tell me how to get to Sesame Street? 



Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students adopt new friends 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Nearly 200 students from Saint 
Mary's College (SMC) and the 
University of Notre Dame have 
expressed interest in the Adopt-A· 
Nun program sponsored by the 
SMC student government so far 
this year, according to Cassie 
Sears, President of the club. 
"The student response has been 
more positive this fall than in 
years past and we are still 
encouraging people to sign up," 
Sears said. 
The program is a continuing, 
joint effort between the two cam­
puses although most program 
activities are held at SMC. 
Students "adopt" a sister of the 
Holy Cross Order and are en-. ·· 
couraged to visit her at least once (w 
a week. 
In addition to the weekly, one­
on-one visits, various interactive • • 
events are held throughout the · 

year including monthly parties, f'hc*ICaurlleyals.lni...,YaAdapi-A-Nun 
bingo, Masses and watching away Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students enjoy spending time with their new found 
football games. Anticipated sec-friends. 
ond semester events include 

nun and may also choose to "share" older and are separated from themValentines and St. Patrick Day par­their nun, as Martha and Molly we are able to get a sense of what ties, as well as a spring picnic, said Sanford have done. the students are experiencing andSears. 
Sister Angela Merici had been the that makes it easier for me to under­"I have been ple.asantly surprised principal of Saint Mary's Academy stand their position in today's
with the relationship which has 

when the Sanford's mother was a world," she stated. 
developed between Sister Eutropia, student there. When they heard she Sears believes the program to be athe nun who I adopted last year, and 

was now living at the Rosary very beneficial one to become
myself. We have gotten to know Convent, the two decided to adopt involved in. 

each other quite well over the past her. 
year and have complemented each "To me, the program is a good "The Adopt-A-Nun program allows other's personalities. Sister was idea because one feels, in a sense, the students to learn about the

especially a good help for me 

more connected to our roots here at Catholic faith as well as our Saintbecause I was a freshman adjusting Saint Mary's since the Sisters found­Mary's heritage. You get to hear var­to life away from home," Sears con­ed it," Molly Sanford said. ious stories of the past and thesetinued. 
"I agree and I also think that being break down the stereotypes of a nun involved in Adopt-A-Nun provides and I think that's important for peo­All of the nuns formerly lived in both student and Sister with a look ple to know." 
Rosary Convent on campus but a inside one anothers lives since nei­"I have gained a good friendship in 

recent renovation project has 

ther would spend time together on a my nun who is 94 years old. I defi­
required that many move to the 

regular basis," Martha Sanford said. nitely don't look at nuns the sameSaint Mary's Annex on Notre Dame The Sisters have also shown high way I did before I was involved inAvenue, or Our Lady of the Holy approval towards the program, as the program," Sears concluded. 
Cross Convent in South Bend. 

has Sister Angela, who is a first time Students may still sign up for theTransportation is generally avail­participant in the program. program and should contact Sears atable, although drivers are always "I love young people and have Saint Mary's or Jim Schmiedeler at rneeded. 
great faith in them. Because we are Notre Dame ifinterested.
Students may adopt more than one 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 10, 1994 
• NFL ROUND UP 


Bronco's get needed win after their 0-4 start 
By WENDY E. LANE 
Associated Press 
The 49ers and Broncos need­ed to regroup, and they did. The lions and the Chiefs need­ed a turnaround just as much, but they didn't get one. 
Early on, it looked like the lions, who had lost two straight since beating Dallas, were bouncing back better than San Francisco. Detroit scored on its first two possessions Sunday before San Francisco came back to win 27-21 at Pontiac, Mich. 
Mter a shocking 0-4 start, the Broncos got the win they and coach Wade Phillips so desper­ately needed, 16-9. 
"I feel good for the players," Phillips said. "They've come back from a lot of adversity. Now that we've got that first win, maybe it'll get the team rolling." 
The Chiefs were certainly looking to get rolling again 
after getting shut out by the Rams two weeks ago, but the undefeated Chargers held Joe Montana's team without a touchdown again, winning 20­6. 
A slow start was the last thing the 49ers, coming off a 40-8 embarrassment by Philadelphia, wanted. But they capitalized on a crop of Detroit penalties to score two quick touchdowns and tie the score at halftime. 
"Nothing is easy for us right now, but we're hanging in there," Steve Young said. "It's not easy being down 14-0 on the road, but we've got some guys on the team who have been around a long time. We knew that we didn't need to scream and panic. We just had to get going." 
In other games Sunday, Dallas routed Arizona 38-3, the Los Angeles Raiders edged New England 21-17, Chicago beat New Orleans 17-7, Green Bay took the Los Angeles Rams 24­17, Buffalo defeated Miami 21­11, the New York Jets downed Indianapolis 16-6 and Atlanta beat Tampa Bay 34-13. 
Also, it was Washington at Philadelphia, and Minnesota visits the New York Giants on Monday night. 
Cincinnati, Cleveland, Houston and Pittsburgh had byes. 
Against San Francisco, the Lions were penalized 12 times for 101 yards, and five of the penalties were against their special teams. 
"We got a of our penalties on the kicking game, and that's something I have to look into," Lions coach Wayne Fontes said. 
The 49ers (4-2) won their ftfth in a row against the Lions, including a 55-17 drubbing last year. Young, who was sacked 15 times in the first five games, was sacked just twice by the Lions (2-4). 
Young hit 19 of 25 passes for 152 yards, including a 5-yard TD pass to Nate Singleton. 
Floyd carried eight times for 35 yards and caught five passes for 43 yards. 

Broncos 16, Seattle 9 
At Seattle, Denver (1-4) broke a seven-game losing streak dat­ing to last season, leaving Cincinnati, which had a bye, as the NFL's only winless team. 
John Elway scored on a short run, and Jason Elam kicked three field goals. 
The Seahawks (3-3) lost three fumbles and Rick Mirer was intercepted twice. Three of the five Seattle turnovers led to 13 of Denver's points. 
Chargers 20, Chiefs 6 
At San Diego, Natrone Means ran for a career-high 125 yards and one touchdown on 19 car­ries as the Chargers (5-0) remained the NFL's only unde­feated team. 
The Chiefs (3-2) have lost two straight games for the first time since Montana moved over last season from San Francisco. 
"It's always a concern when you don't get the ball in the end zone, period," Montana said. 
"Two straight weeks make it worse." 
Raiders 21, Patriots 17 
At Foxboro, Mass., corner­back Terry McDaniel returned an interception for a touch­down, and his second of three pickoffs set up the deciding score as Los Angeles (2-3) stopped New England's three­game winning streak. 
Bears 17, Saints 7 
At Chicago, Steve Walsh played his third straight game in place of the injured Erik Kramer and remained unbeat­en as Chicago's starting quar­terback. 
Walsh directed two long sec­ond-half scoring drives, com­pleting 16 of 26 passes for 174 yards. Lewis Tillman rushed for 100 yards and a touchdown for the Bears (4-2). 
The Saints (2-4). who play their home games in the Superdome, had trouble fmding their footing on the torn-up turf at Soldier Field. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
NEED HELP WRITING? Manuscript preparation by experi­enced editor. Free pick-up and delivery. 293-9170 or FAX 522­4109. 
USED BOOKS & CLIFPS NOTES Pandora's Books 233-2342 NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/1 0-6 Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store 
Downtown book wholesaler seeks warehouse workers Flexible hours & wkend work available 232-8500 X22 ask for Bryan 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING by Angie. Special student rate: $1.25 per page. Resumes start at $9. Located one block west of IUSB. Call 237-0967. 
ILOST&FOUNDI 
FOUND a pen on Sept. 23. Call Lisa 289-8227 
LOST STUDENT I.D. NEAR GATE 15 ON SAT. 10/1. REWARD. CALL 287-4546. THANK YOU. 
My name is Huan Pu Cui. I am a Citizen of China. I lost my passport. I declare that my possport will be invalid after October 8, 1994. 
WANTED 
FUNDRAISING Choose from 3 dif­ferent fundraisers lasting either 3 or 7 days. No Investment. Earn $$$ for your group plus personal cash bonuses for yourself. Call 1-800­932.0528, Ext. 65 
***SPRING BREAK 95*** 
America's 111 Spring Break 
Company! Cancun, Bahamas, 
Daytona & Panama! 110% Lowest 
Price Guarantee! Organize 15 
friends and TRAVEL FREEl Earn 
highest commissions! (800)32­
TRAVEL 
Want two good tickets to see James Taylor. Will trade tickets for any remaining football games. 273-1080 
$$$$ 
NEED BYU GAS! 
WILL PAY BIG$ 
CALL 1-8317 
$$$ 
Connie from SW Iowa needs a ride home for fall break. Call 3604 if you're headed west on 1-80. 
Two Students need a ride to the WASHINGTON D.C. AREA for Fall Break. Will PAY FOR GAS! call Monica@ 4-3196 PIZZA MAKER· PART TIME­EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD MONEY. 
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW YORK 257-1100. 
Campus Band needs Lead Guitarist. Guaranteed gigs. Call Pick 2n-2375 
I NEED 2 BYU GAs CALL McKENNA 271-2956 WILL PAYWHATITTAKES 
FOR RENT 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­n3-2034 
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & BREAKFAST-Historic Home, quiet setting, 4 guest rooms, shared baths. 20 minutes to campus. 
616-695-6321. 
Fully furnished clean 2 bedroom 5 rooms total, 1 1/2 block south of St. Joe Med Center safe quiet neighborhood $450 plus deposit. Utilities, cable, air and trash included Private entrance call 233-8327 or see at 224 North St. Peter St. Ideal for grad student or prof. References required 
FOR SALE 
85 SAAB 900 Turbo SPG Black w/Tan int., sunroof, 72K mi., very clean, new stereo, $4500 631-0141,277-5712 Eve. 
Tired of Waiting in long computer lines? Buy your own IBM 486 SX, 4 MB Ram, 400 MB Hard drive, keyboard, mouse, and $$$ of programs-lotus, excel, word­perfect, quattro pro, harvard graph­ics. Call X0640 $900 or best offer. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. CALL 800-922-2327 JANET. 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 
STUDENT AND GAS NEEDED FOR BYU AND GAS FOR AF. PLEASEI CALL JEANNE AT X2478. 
Need BYU student TIX (or GA's) Will pay good money Call Dennis at (914) 294-6546 or 634-4012. 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 
I NEED BYU GA'S CALL JEFF @2n-8250 
I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u can help, call Ron at x1736 
I need one Air Force GA or student ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please call X3822. Thanks! 
HELPI I need 4 Navy tickets-stud. and GA. Call Brian at x.2034. 
NEED BYU TIXI 2-4 GA's & 2 Stud. call LIND! 284-5151 
Desparately need 4 BYU GA's Call Megan at 4072 
PARENTS HATE YOU? SELL ME THEIR NAVY TIXII SERIOUS CASH!! CALL JERRY AT 3024 
I NEED 8 TICKETS TO BYU STUDENT OR GA'S CALL 
MEGHAN X4541 
Will trade two or more tickets for any remaining NO football game for two good james Taylor tickets. 273-1080. 
Need 3 BYU GA's & 3NAVYGA's call 4-2010 
SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE TIXS CALL· BRENDAN AT 277-6315 
NEED 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY $$$$$$-call Brian@ X1739 
4 SALE: 2 Navy GAs-CALL with b/o 4-4824 
I NEED 1 NAVY G.A.I Call Sean 
@1432. 
NEED 5 BYU GA'S-CALL Joe @ x2765 
NEED 2 -4 BYU GA'S OR STUD. 
TIX. CALL TONY. X4532 
I NEED 8 (YES, 8) BYU GA's 
CALL AMY X2652 
Rooms for rent. BYU & Navy 
games. Call 255-9005 for more 
information. 
BLIND MAN DYING TO HEAR BYU GAME IN PERSON. WILL BUY STUD/GA BYU TIX OR TRADE FOR AF OR NAVY GAs. 216-721­8163 
NEED G.A. TIX TO NO VS BYU. 
CALL JOE @287-4561 BEFORE 
11P.M. 
STUDTIX­LAST 3 HOME GAMES CALL 271-1249 WITH OFFER 
2 FSU GA's Best Offer Kevin x1955 
WANTED 
Two GA Tickets to 
the BYU Game Call ASAP with your tickets! 4-2617 
Need 2-3 Airforce GAs. Leslie 273· 9303 
I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call Kristine at4·3806. Thank you VERY MUCHI 
For Sale: 1 BYU student ticket. Call x4478 and leave offer. 
NEED 1 STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR AIR FORCE. CALL LOU @ 233·4008. 
I NEED A. F. G.A.'s Call Dave 634-1198 
I NEED 2 BYU G.A.'s II Will Trade Franklin, or Best Offer ED @271-8151 
I need a stud tick or GA for AF III!!Piease call Connie x360411111 
MORMONS coming in from out of town -need BYU GA's fast. .. will pay big bucks... please call X1997 
Need Student Tickets for BYU and AirForce. Call X1899 and ask for Jon 
HELPI I need 2 GA's for BYU, my parents are coming. call Katie 284­5132. 
Helpl We need 2 BYU tickets­student or GAs and 2 NAVY GAs. Please call Kathleen at4-3917. 
Need 6 BYU GAs and 3 BYU Stud Tix Call Chad at X3368 
WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR 
2 BYU TIX. Call Val #4-2597 
Neoo 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call 
Sue at2n-8995 
NY Alum needs 1-4tickets for BYU game. Call 1-800-666-4949 ext. 220. Ask for Ann Hiens 
Needed:1 GA to air force and 1 GA to BYU or Navy-call ann x4544 
NEED 1 BYU Tick 
StudorGA 
Please Call Darryl @4243 
Help!! I need Tix for BYUII 
Monica-X2995 

$$$$$$$$ Need Navy GA's Call Marc@ 233-4008 $$$$$$$$$ 
HELP$$$$1 I need 2 GAs & 1 stud 
ticket for BYU -parents & sis coming. For lots of $$$$$$, call 272-92031 
NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME. -call Mike at 4-11n 
NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME. -call Mike at 4-1177 
NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON SEE HIS 1ST ND GAME. -call Mike at4-1177 
NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME. -call Mike at4-1177 
* * * HELP MEl I NEED SIX BYU STDT TIX FOR MY LONG-LOST BROTHERS! CALL BETH X4841 
PLEASE HELP! It's my parent's anniversary, and they've never been to a NO game. I need 2 BYU GAs. Call 271-0226. 
AIR FORCE TICKETS: I Need 2 BYU GA'S. Have AIR FORCE tickets to deal. MattX3744 
NOv FSU. Have 13 tickets 34-40 yd line. Call407-365-0665 evenings. 
I need GA's or student tickets for BYU. Call Chris 271-1390 
Buy my remaining stud. tix. Dan 273-0855 
I need GA's for BYU, Navy and AF. Please call if u can help............ . Call Tony@ 4-3883 
I need 4 GA's for the Airforce Game. Call Ashley 284-4310. Thanks. 
I need 2 GA's for Navy Call David @ 288-9760 
I will be your best friend for a BYU GA or student ticket. (There's also money involved). Call Cara. 284­4310. 
PERSONAL 
SEINFEST '9411 1ST ANNUAL SUB COMEDY TAL­ENT SHOW! WATCH FOR SIGNUPS FOR AUDITIONS AT DINING HALLS 10/11-1311 -YOU COULD BE THE NEXT JERRY SEINFELD!I 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune Student Center now accepts VISA, MC, and MAC cards for your copying needs. 
I'm enjoying this I'll have more of that, THANK YOU 
-Attention Caring People-Oct. 11 Is National Coming Out Day, so wear a Purple Ribbon to show your support of your Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Friends! 
I need a ride to and from NJ for October break. I will share driving and expenses. Lara x2518 
3 Female Grad Students: -Need 1 more roommate-Oak Hill $300/mo. 273-6153 
Quality Copies, Quickly!!I 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
Established campus band with guaranteed gigs needs lead gui­tarist. Call Pick 277-2375 
8 days to MIKE O'MALLEY'S death!! I Start to train O'Malley or their could be another Amoco stop. 
Happy Birthday to my two favorite penalheads. Love, THE BOSS 
Hey Chuck Diesel and Doughnuts whats going on girls?? 
Sean, Albania has no Gravity. 
Sally, Call me, will ya? Rob. 
Hey Garren, HOLY CORPSE! 
Nelamie, What could I tell you to make you believe ... 
YOU ARE THE CUTEST GIRL IN THE WORLD!!! 
and her roommates tool 
Kiddo, You are the weirdo!! -An lllnios Farmer 


-~----------------=-----­
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
The Senoir Tim Oates scored twice against the Flames of lll.inois-Chlcago. The Irish could not keep their momentum as they lost the1r next game. 
Law 
• MEN's SoccER 

Irish burned by the Phoenix 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Sports Writer 
After a victory against Illinois­Chicago last Friday, the Notre Dame men's soccer team hinted at being out. of their offensive slump. Yet, yesterday's loss to Wisconsin-Green Bay indicated that they have not fully recov­ered. 
The Phoenix beat the Irish 2-1 in overtime as Phoenix mid­fielder Tom Sander scored his second goal of the game, off an assist from forward Sal LoCoco, in the lOth minute of overtime. 
While the Irish did not domi­nate as they usually do, they played tough enough to win. 

They were put a goal down late in the first half as the de­fense was called for a trip in the penalty box. Sander proceeded to convert the penalty kick and give the Phoenix the early lead. 
After the goal, the Irish were forced to pick up the offensive pressure. While, not looking as in synch as earlier in the season the Irish were able to score the equalizer in the 71st minute of play, as sophomore defender Brian Engesser drove in his first career goal. 
"The goalie punched it (corner kick) out of the box," Engesser explained. "I was able to volley it into the far side of the goal." 
Yet, even with the offense in 




Tuesday October 11, 1994 
10:30 a.m. -2:30 p.m. 



JACC Concourse 
Co-sponsoredby 
Prelaw Society & Career and Placement Services 
the middle of revival, it may be too late for the Irish. With the loss, the Irish finished their con­ference schedule even with four wins and loses. 
The conference tournament takes the top four teams per di­vision. The Irish before this past week were in third place in their conference with only three conference games left. They were ahead of Illinois-Chicago and Loyola and behind the Phoenix. In the week's time, they were only able to defeat Illinois-Chicago. 
"There's still hope," Engesser said. "But, it'll be tough." 
As for the rest of the season the Irish will have to prepare to face three ranked opponents in SMU, UCLA, and Cal State ~"'­Fullerton. 
"We're just trying to come to­gether," Engesser added. "We're having problems, but we're working hard." 


Life 
continued from page 20 
he was tripped inside the penalty box after beating an Illinois-Chicago defender. Oates drilled the ball into the side netting to put the Irish up by two. 
Oates then capped off the scoring in the 83rd minute of play when he won a long ball punted by keeper Bert Bader and finished off the play by blasting the ball to the near post over the charging Moreno's head. 
The Irish backline of Chris Dean, Kevin Adkisson, and Brian Engessor was solid throughout the entire match, only allowing Illinois-Chicago seven shots. The trio, com­bined with goal keeper Bert Bader, recorded their fifth shut out of the season. This unit also gave the offense a big boost, serving up two assists. 
Berticelli was pleased with the attitude and maturity of his team. "We were concerned that our players might be down from our recent run of bad luck, but they've handled it well and came out strong tonight. We played extremely well and executed on both of­fense and defense." 

Coach 
continued from page 20 
a penalty kick past the Wisconsin keeper at 34:34. 
"We had some good chances to score, but didn't always con­vert them," Petrucelli said. "That has more to do with their play than ours. They are a tough, defensive team." 
The Badger defense was forced to play short-handed when midfielder Jackie Billet was issued a red card just 3:44 into the second half. 
Still, the Irish were unable to cushion their lead until mid­way through the second half when Manthei took a feed from Thompson and broke through the Wisconsin defense before dumping a shot in from seven yards left of the box. 
"We were expecting a let­down after the North Carolina game," Manthei said. "Hopefully, this·was it." 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 10, 1994 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL • WOMEN'S TENNIS 



If YOU
Miami mauls Seminoles, 



Vitale Victorious 
against Hallie Cohen of Purdue 
looking towards Gators see news
Special to The Observer 

with scores of 7-6. 6-2, thus 
By STEVEN WINE Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
It turns out the Miami Hurricanes aren't just the third-best team in the state af­ter all. 
The Hurricanes beat Florida State 34-20 Saturday night, and they still have a chance to catch top.ranked Florida in the na­tional championship chase. 
Miami (4-1) jumped from 13th to eighth in Sunday's rankings. If the Hurricanes win their final six games -all in the Big East Conference -and Florida fmishes unbeaten, the two teams likely would play in the Sugar Bowl. 
The Hurricanes and Gators last met in 1987. 
"They've always wanted to play us; we've always wanted to play them," Miami coach Dennis Erickson said Sunday. "A lot of things have to happen, but if things fall right, we might have an opportunity to win the national championship .... 
"It's fun to speculate. It's a lot more fun speculating today than it was a week ago." 
A week ago, the Hurricanes were supposedly slipping from their status as a perennial pow­erhouse. Their 58-game win­ning streak in the Orange Bowl ended against Washington. and a lackluster victory at Rutgers followed. 
For the first time in more than a decade, Miami was overshadowed in its own state by both the Gators and Seminoles. 
"You get tired of hearing that, especially when you have so many Florida kids," Erickson said. 
With Saturday's impressive performance, Miami is back in the spotlight. 
"After losing the streak in the Orange Bowl, and with the things that have been said about the program the last cou­ple of weeks, it had to be the biggest win in my career." said Erickson, overlooking his two national championship rings. 
"You-almost have to thank the press for getting our guys ready to play. Obviously it was a motivational factor." 
Florida State coach Bobby Bowden, 2-8 against the Hurricanes in the past decade, said they seemed as talented as ever to him. 
"It doesn't look like the same club I saw against Rutgers or Washington," Bowden said. "You saw the Rutgers ftlm and said, 'Hmm, maybe they're missing a link; maybe they're 

.-.:z:. 
NOBODY 00&5 510 BR£!>KS B. TTER! 
going downhill.' But they don't look any different than in the other years I'm seen them." 
The Seminoles (4-1), who fell from third to 11th in the latest rankings, are out of the Top Ten for the first time since the 1Oth week of the 1990 season. They've fmished in the top four every year since 1987. 
Bowden still harbors hopes of repeating as national champi­ons. 
"Miami got beat by Washington, and I'd have to put them back into contention," Bowden said. "Now we've been through the same thing, and I hope we can make another run. I told the kids, 'What is the dif­ference now from a year ago after Notre Dame?'" 
The Seminoles lost to the Fighting Irish last season and still finished No. 1. 
Bowden said junior Danny Kanell remains his starting quarterback. Kanell threw three interceptions and was yanked from the game in the second half, but his replace­ments fared no better. 
"The one thing we did find out from the ballgame is that we have the quarterbacks rated correctly," Bowden said. "Danny Kanell is the first-team quarterback." 
Miami quarterback Frank Costa, meanwhile, earned a measure of redemption with a solid performance. He lost his starting job following a defeat at Florida State last year. 
"I don't know who's happier for me-myself or my team­mates," said Costa, who com­pleted 18 of 32 passes for 177 yards. 
"It got the monkey off Frank's back for him to win a big game," Erickson said. 
Miami and Florida State both have a bye this week. On Oct. 22 the Hurricanes play at West Virginia, and the Seminoles play host to Clemson. 
"I wish we didn't have an open date," Bowden said. "I don't like it after you lose. You spend two weeks pouting in­stead of one." 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team had a fair showing at the Eck Invitational over the weekend. Held at Notre Dame, the invitational was a chance for the women to show off their skills for the hometown crowd. 
The team had a couple of bright spots in the A Flight sin­gles and the B flight singles. Junior Sherri Vitale fmished in fourth place in the former while freshman Molly Gavin placed third in the latter. 
Vitale won both her first and second round matches, but then lost in the semi finals on Staurday. She then went on to drop a 6-4, 6-2 decision to Jenny Atkerson of Kansas on Sunday to finish in the fourth spot. 
Gavin followed the same course as Vitale in the begin­ning, losing on Saturday in the semis, but she then went on to win her match on Sunday 

securing her the third spot. Other Notre Dame perfor­mances on the weekend includ­

haPPen­

ed: senior Laura Schwab finish­ing in fifth place of the A flight; freshman Kelley Olsen finishing 

ing. call

in tenth place of the B flight; junior Meredith Siegfried fin­ishing in eighth place in the C Flight; sophomore Beth 
The Morgan fmishing in sixth in the D Flight; and freshman Darcie Sweet finishing tenth in the D Flight 

Observer 

277-2974 
Not valid with other offer. New customers 

PROF. DAVID LINK 
DEAN OF NOTRE DAME'S LAW SCHOOL 
SPEAKS ON 

"HOW TO GET INTO A GOOD LAW SCHOOL'' 
Tuesday, October 11 7:00p.m. at St. Edward's Hall 

Monday, October 10, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• WoMEN's Cnoss CouNTRY 


Irish cruise for second place at home 
By RANDY WASINGER 
Sports Writer 
The 18th ranked Notre Dame women's cross country squad put 5 of their 7 runners in the top 21 last Friday afternoon as they cruised to a second place showing at the 38th annual Notre Dame Invitational. Alabama was the only team able to surpass the Irish, as they won the meet with 51 points. Notre Dame was 23 points behind with 74. 
Alabama freshman Jessica Fry won the meet with a time of 17:28, the fastest time run on Notre Dame's course this sea­son. Kristi Kramer placed the highest for the Irish with a time of 18:01 and an 8th place fin­ish. She was followed closely by teammate Sarah Riley, who 
A discussion of 








Ethics in La 


with 

Professor Patricia O'Hara 
of the Notre Dame Law School 



Keenan Hall Kommons 7:30pm Monday, October 10, 1994 
Refreshments will be Served .-.J 

Deloitte & 


ToucheLLP 
'-~ 
came in lOth. 
In spite of the squad's high placing, Notre Dame Head Coach Tim Connelly was still not totally pleased with his team's performance. "We did­n't run as well as we were ca­pable," said Connelly. "I was hoping we would do a little bet­ter running up front." 
Friday's huge field gave the Irish some trouble near the be­ginning of the race, as two Notre Dame runners, junior Amy Siegel and senior Sarah Riley, were tripped as the 148 runners scrambled for position. Siegel was never quite able to recover, finishing 47th, while Riley came back strong to finish lOth. 

"It's going to happen," said Riley when asked about the race's jumbled start. "Luckily, it didn't seem to have too much of an effect on my race." 
Notre Dame's other top finishers include sophomore Emily Hood at 15th place (18:20), senior Maureen Kelly at 20th (18:29), and junior Kristen Dudas at 21st (18:30). 
Next Sunday will be Notre Dame's first big road meet. They will travel to Michigan, where 6 of the participating teams, including the Irish, are ranked in the top 20. 
College Year in Athens 
1995--1996 

The Department of Classical and Oriental Languages and Literatures in cooperation with The Office of International Studies Programs is receiving applications for its program in Athens, Greece. No knowledge of Greek is necessary. Eligibility: Sophomores (One or two semesters) Juniors (One or two semesters) Courses: For Students of: 
Art Anthropology 
Ancient Greek Art 
History Classics 
Medieval Greek Economics 
Modem Greek English 
Philosophy Philosophy 
Religion Theology 
Informational Meeting Monday, October 10, at 4:30 p.m. Room 201 DeBartolo 


Teant 
continued from page 20 
ground." 
"When you see someone who's so dedicated to his team like that, that really inspired everyone else," he said. 
The Irish varsity turned in an inspirational performance as well, amassing 82 points to win their first meet of the sea­son. West Virginia University finished second with 109 points, while Edinboro University finished third with 143 points. 
Senior Nate Ruder was Notre Dame's top performer, finish­ing fourth with a time of 
24:38.1. Sophomore Matt Althoff finished tenth with a time of 24:58.7, while junior Joe Dunlop placed 11th in 
25:01.2 and Cowan placed 13th with a time 25:06. 
According to Piane, much more than pride was at stake in Friday's meet. 
"We really needed to win this to get back in the top ten," he said. "Hopefully it will give us momentum for our extreme­ly competitive meet next week­end." 
"You have to put things into perspective," Cowan said. "In cross country, rankings are not the greatest measure of who's who. What really matters is if you come through and win at nationals." 
"Right now, we're not too concerned about our ranking. What really matters is how we run and how we do at nation­als." 


Management Consulting 
Recruiting Presentation 

Representatives from Deloitte & Touche's National Management Consulting Practice will be on campus to discuss career opportunities in con-­sulting. All interested undergraduate students are encouraged to attend. 

_j 
--------------~------------------------------~-------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SMC Vm.LEYBALL 

• Belles place third in tourney 
BYJENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Spons Editor 
The Belles housed eight teams last weekend in the annual Saint Mary's Volleyball Tournament. 
The teams were broken up into two brackets. Bracket number one consisted of Elmhurst College, Hanover College, Saint Mary's College, and DePauw. The second bracket was made up of Alma College, Bethal College, Franklyn College, and Auroura College. 
Saint Mary's came out third in their bracket defeating Elmhust College 15-13, and 15­

.... 9. The Belles lost to the Hanover, who are ranked sixth in the region, in three games losing 10-15, 15-11, and 12-15. 
The Belles also lost to DePauw 15-9, 4-15, and 6-15. 
"Our plays were not consis­tent," said coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "Our serve re­ception is still poor." 
"I have yet to see better hit­ters on the opposing teams, but without the percise pass, we cannot run our offense and use our hitters." 
Saturday morning started the Single Elimination round. The Belles defeated both Alma (16-14) and DePauw (15-4, 10­15, 15-9) which pushed them into the finals on Saturday evening against Bethal. Unfortunately, Bethal knocked the Belles out of the tourna­ment 4-15 and 12-15. 
"I really expected us to make it to thermals," said Schroeder-Biek. "It's very unusual for a team to be placed third in the first round and made it to the finals. We really had to play back hard." 
Captain Sara Stronzcek made the all tournament team. This is an honored position voted on by all of the coaches. They base their decision on which opposing player hurt their team the most. Stronzcek had fourty-seven kills, fourty­two digs, nine blocks, and five service aces. 
Saint Mary's will be playing the ninth in the nation team, Kalamazoo College Tuesday evening at 7:00 in Angela Atheletic Center. 
The Belles beat Kalamazoo last year, however this is the second year the Hornets have not lost a single player, accord­ing to Schroeder-Biek. 
• SMC SoccER 



Tigers defeat young Belles 
BYJENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
During an eight game losing streak, the Belles (3-9) are rmd­ing it very difficult to score. However, they did managed to talley a point for DePauw University in last Saturday's. 
The first point for the Tigers was crossed at a difficult angle. Maura Sullivan tried to knock the ball out of bounce using a chest block, but instead the ball rebounded into the Saint Mary's goal. DePauw scored one more point in the first half and two in the second, making thermal score 4-0. 
"We have no offense," said Tiffany Raczynski. "We spend most of our time working on our defense." 
" We can have the best de­fense in the world, but if we can't get the ball through the goal, we can't win a game." 
"It's hard to explain," said Debi Diemer. "We are playing really well defensively, but we just can't get a quality shot." 
This was the first time in four years the Belles have lost to DePaul. Size was a big factor in Saturdays game. The Tigers had the advantage of having thirty players. DePauw was able to stay well rested because of their numerous substitutions, according to Shari Matelski. 
Saint Mary's has not scored in six of their twelve games. The last goal scored was in Thursday's game against University of Chicago. 
"We have no passing game. DePauw totally passed around us," said Lisa Nichols. "They knew their game really well and had three to four strong players." 
"We are really a young team compared to our opposition," said Matelski. "We have eleven freshman coming out of high school and playing at a college level against juniors and se­niors. Next year we will be more prepared." 
The Belles only have four games left in the season and they are putting all of their en­ergy into beating the unde­feated Kalamazoo College this Wenesday at 3:30 in Kalamazoo. 


"Everybody is ready for this season to end," said Nichols. 
IIi.\\T)~ Sf))f)~­
'rttiNfr 'rf) 


SilY? IJSI~ 
f)liSI~ ll\T)~ ll 
f~I.JlSSII~II~I)S. 

Monday, October 10, 1994 
If interested, please call Me8han Kelley 277-6437 or Qandolph &hmidt 634-1154 

•48 
HOUR EXPERIENCE IN AN INNER CITY of your choice •DURING JANUARY 3rd-10th 

•THE 
DATES ARE CHOSEN BY YOUR SITE HOST 

•SEE 
SOUP KITCHENS, SHELTERS, WELFARE AGENCIES, ETC. 

•TALK 
TO THE HOMELESS 


•SEE 
PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO MAKE LIFE BETTER FOR THE DISADVANTAGED 



Come to one of the Information nights to find out what this is all about: -October 11th at 6-7 p.m. Center for Social Concerns -October 19th at 6:30 -7 p.m. Center for Social Concerns -November 3 at 6:30 -7 p.m. Center for Social Concerns -October 20th at 6:30-7 p.m. Haggar Lounge -SMC 
Registration are available at the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry -Notre Dame Campus Ministry, Multicultural Office and Justice Education Office -Saint Mary's 



-~----------­

Monday, October 3, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DAVE KELLETT GARY LARSON 
"Oh, yeah! They work real hard, all day long, seven days a week! ... And here's the best part-for chicken feed!" 
THE SURGE WAS ADDED  WHAT  THAT'S WHE.I\E  
SO I  COULD GET THE  ABOUT  YOU  COME IN.  
BUSTNES.S CASE APPROVED.  l!  ACCOUNT­ 
THE TWO-'<EAR LAG GIVES /"'\[ Hf"\E TO GET  si  ABILITy?I  
_________ PROMOTED.  )  
SALES  I  ~  
:::>  
CROSSWORD  

ACROSS 32Jai-60 Something to 33 Kind of cow, fall back on? 
1 Battle of 1836 dog or horse 61 Stir up 6 Snoozes 36 Hercule Poi rot's 62 Toledo's lake 10 Read, as bar pride 63 Heavy reading codes 41 Feminizing 64 Lump14 Actress Linda suffix 65 Auction off 15 Song for one 
42 The last word? 
66 Baker's need 16 Tropical food 43 Seamstress plant 

Betsy17 "Great!" 
44Cons DOWN 11 Shaker contents 
45 TV secretary 1 In addition

19 -·European 
47 New York's­
2 White House 20 Rarely Island area23 Zero so Wide's partner 3 With: Fr.

24 They use lassos 51 Surrenders 4Roger25 Product with sa Double-reed Bannister'sAmmonia·D woodwind distance291neptly 59 "The Wind in 5 Connected to 31 Counterpart of the Willows" the information Mars character 
superhighway &Twang type 7 Show horse 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE a Tablet 9 Sinatra's "­Night" ~~::..+=,--1 10 Part of a 90's TV 



duo 33-ginfizz 46 Peace maker 53"-, Caesar!" 
-=-+::=+:-=:~ 11 Transport for 
34 Otherwise 47 Like some 54 Ice chunk Hiawatha 
enemies 55 South American 
12 Zeal 35 Like some profs. 
48 No-no capital13 Middays 49 Eschew 56 "Honest" one21 Overrule 37 Intertwines 50 Cuba's Castro and namesakes 38 Flows forth 
~~+=-! 22 Windblown 52 Had on 57 Essence 
-:-t::'-E+:-1 25 Cloth texture 39 Small wonder 26 Showy flower 40 Blunder 27 Snares 
44Addison 
Get answers to any three clues 
-::+.=-+:+=-! 21 Summer hrs. contemporary 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
..,.-+::,..r:,.+:-,-~ 29 Owls' hangouts Richard 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
~.;..L;...:..L:-~ 30 Pub draught 45 Plopped (down) 

Leadership Conference Education Fund, Inc. ~ 
({Jdrn®~Uft®IID~~ CI!®Iffirffi®IIDU~~ ft~®~~ ff®rr ~UliD~®IIDU @®W®rfiiDrffi®IIDU~~~ 



I 
FOOTBALLt t 1994
.• 
I 
Irish fall prey to Eagles, again 
SEE SPORTS EXTRA:; 



SPORTS 

page 20 Monday, October 10, 1994 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish use coach as key point to beat Badgers 
~--· ..., , """" ~ ¥ > . : -"' . · :1:!: 
' ~ J!fV­
•...•.ffl<.· 
'T'M CllllerMi Kyle Kwlk 
Holly Manthei scored the final goal as the Irish went on io defeat the Badgers of Wisconsin 

.... 

Signs of life left in offense 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
By jARED PATZKE Sporrs Writer 
A sigh of relief passed throughout the Notre Dame men's soccer team as mid­fielder Keith Carlson headed a cross from defender Brian Engesser past the outstretched arms of Illinios-Chicago's goal­keeper Tony Moreno. This goal ended the team's three game scoring drought and gave them a lead which they never relin­quished as they defeated the Flames 3-0. 
"It's about time," stated No~re 
Dame men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli. "We've been playing well, we just haven't been fin­ishing. It's nice to finally get some goals. Carlson's goal in the 13th minute broke the scoreless tie. It was one of just a few high­lights in the first half for either squad. The match proved to be a very sloppy one do to physical play. "There was no flow to the first half of the game," com-men ted Berticelli. "This can be 
att~ibuted t? inconsis~ent refer­
eemg. He d call thmgs, and then not call them later when identical fouls occur. I think ~e moved the ball a lot better m the second half and really start­ed to ex~cute on offense." . The Insh added two goals m the second ?alf, both off t~e foot of semor forward Tim Oates. Oates's _first _goal_ came off a penalty kick SIX mmutes into the second half. Tont Richardson drew the call when 
see LIFE I page I 4 

By RIAN AKEY But th~ excitement was jolt­
ksociateSporrsEdiror ~r~s~~~~:~~t!~: ~~~l~fn!!~ Before Sunday's game misses by Wisconsin early in against Wisconsin, Notre Dame the first half. women's soccer coach Chris The first came at the 10:00 Petrucelli was worried. mark when a shot by the He was concerned that an Badgers' Heather Maier hit the 
attacking, physical Wisconsin crossbar before Renola scooped team would badger his Fighting it up. Irish defense. He was afraid The second opportunity for 
that an intense, emotional Wisconsin came after Irish mid­Wisconsin team would play fielder Kate Fisher was called their game of the year in order for a foul in the Notre Dame to beat the team who had just box. Mter arguing the call with tied North Carolina. But most the referee, Petrucelli was of all, Petrucelli was scared issued a red card and ejected that his own team would suffer from the game. Adding to the a letdown-that the Wisconsin melee, Wisconsin's Cheri game sandwiched between the Skibski's penalty kick glanced two biggest weekends of the off the inside of the crossbar season would command less and was cleared by Renola, attention from his squad than it causing the Irish to re-evalu­deserved. tate their position. 
He had reason to worry. "When coach Petrucelli got 
The No. 8 Badgers were the red card, that riled us up a physical, emotional, and played little bit," Manthei said, "but their best game of the year. when they missed the penalty And Notre Dame was flat. kick we really got going. We 
But the Irish defense, led by knew then that we could be los­
sophomore goal keeper Jen ing." Renola, posted its seventh shut-The Irish created several out of the season as No.2 Notre more scoring opportunities Dame preserved a 2-0 win. during the half, but were 
"We were all excited for the unable to convert until co-cap­game," freshman Holly Manthei tain Tiffany Thompson blasted said. "We just weren't playing like we were." see COACH/ page 15 
• MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Mackey provides 
•• nsp1•rati•on for team 
By KATE CRISHAM Instead, it was senior Jeff Sports Writer Mackey's performance in the open race which propelled It wasn't the fact that it was Cowan and his teammates to the last time he would ever capture their sixth consecutive race on his home course that Notre Dame Invitational cross motivated John Cowan. country championship on 
It wasn't the desire to per-Friday. form well against stiff competi-"Jeff Mackey's performance tion. It wasn't even the need to in the open really set the tempo prove that Notre Dame was for the rest of us," said Cowan. 
better than its 12th-place "He really ran himself into the national ranking. TEAM I see 1page 7 

of note...
BELLES FINISH THIRD The Saint Mary's volleyball team had to settle Check inside for results of 

for third in its own tournament women's cross countrySee page 16 
SaintM s Athletics 

~ 







