

Service and fun make up year's agenda 
Benefit concert is planned 
By KATIE MURPHY Associate News Editor 
Fun and entertainment were key themes in David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh's campaign for stu­dent body president and vice-pres­ident last semester. Through a variety of projects planned for the 1994-1995 school year, Hungeling and Orsagh hope to fulfill these election promises with an element of service. 
"We'll really be killing two birds with one stone (by combining ser­vice and fun)," Orsagh said. 
Although the Grateful Dead concert promised during the elec­tion has not materialized, Hungeling and Orsagh have pro­posed a benefit concert to take place in the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center (JACC) at the end ofAn Tostal. The revenue from the concert would be used for student service trips and pro­jects, such as hurricane or flood relief 
"The proposal has been written and the JACC has been contacted. Their reaction has been really pos­itive," Hungeling said. 
A list of possible performers was not available, but student govern­ment is currently exploring a number of options. 
Another project planned for the year is an underwear and shoe drive. Homeless shelters and mis­sions are always in need of both underwear and shoes, and student government is interested in involv­ing the student body. Boxers auto­graphed by campus or university celebrities may be raffled or auc­tioned off to raise money, and stu­dents can even donate items. 
In terms of student services, Hungeling and Orsagh's staff have developed a computerized book fair. In the computer clusters, stu­dents can cross-reference a class and find people who are trying to sell books for that course. Student government is not responsible· for handling the books, and students can use the clusters at all hours. 
In addition, Hungeling and Orsagh plan to continue pressing for an FM band for the campus radio station WVFI. 
"We will facilitate com­munication between the station and the people in the administra­tion who are calling the shots," Hungeling said. 
Before an application for an FM band is processed, the University would like the station to remedy any lingering management prob­lems and fulfill all FCC regula­

tions. Hungeling stressed that they are open to new suggestions and ideas. 
"Matt and I want students to feel like they can approach us with anything. We're really looking for suggestions," Hungeling said. 
In the near future, Hungeling and Orsagh hope to establish a particular voice mail number for student suggestions. Temporarily, students can leave ideas on Orsagh's voice mail, which is at 631-4554. 


Bridget's reopens to favorable reviews 
By SARAH DORAN ing, as steps have been taken News Editor to upgrade the tavern's securi­ty procedures, said Binder. 
As a result of a steady stream "We are in the process of in­of student interest since it stalling a number of security closed its doors last winter, checks," said Binder. These in­Bridget's, a popular student clude using a uniformed secu­tavern located at 1025 South rity officer at the front door to Bend Avenue, reopened for a check identification and photo­large crowd last Thursday graph patrons entering the tav­night and has plans to stay ern, he said. Also planned for open into the near future. the future is a camera system 
that will photograph each ID 
The tavern, which owners shown upon entrance, said Theresa and Pat Baur still have Binder. listed for sale, is under new Reaction to Bridget's first management. three days of operation has 
"We cleaned it up, which in­been extremely favorable, said cluded painting and neatening Binder. the inside-but tried not to "We've attracted a great change the atmosphere," said crowd each night, have not had newly hired manager Rich any real problems, and things Binder. seem to look great," said 
"There really aren't any no­Binder. ticeable changes on the inside," Although Bridget's has not said Notre Dame senior Mike scheduled any bands to play McEvilly, who is a bouncer and until the football season ends, a bartender at Bridget's. nightly specials are planned 
But one noticeable change and the tavern will also be has been made upon reopen-open on Monday nights. 

OUC installs updated equipn1ent in con1puter clusters 
By SARAH DORAN ing tools for Professors," said News Editor Siler. The OUC also installed 14 
As part of a continual effort to new Power 7100 Macintoshes upgrade the University's com­for use as teaching podiums in puter resour.ces; the Office of Debartolo Hall. Formally, only 
University Computing (OUC) five Macintoshes were availible purchased over 100 new com­for teaching use in classrooms. puters over the summer and The IBM machines from the shifted existing machines to Debartolo cluster and those various clusters. from 228 Debartolo were 
The most notable result of the moved into the Hesburgh and upgrade is the conversion of the Hayes Healy clusters, replacing LaFortune computer cluster the IBM 386's. from Macintosh computers to IBM machines. 24 new IBM PS2 Finally, all Sun SPARC com­DX-4 model 90's were installed puters in the Fitzpatrick, in the cluster, which was Niewland and CCMB 210 labs designed especially to allow were outfitted with new 17" groups of students to work color monitors. Also, the SPARC together on the computers, said 1+ machines, which Siler said Scott Siler. student resources were the slowest of the Sun 
coordinator for the OUC. machines, were replaced by 
The Macintoshes formally of SPARC 5 machines in all labs. the lab were redistributed to The OUC has also made the G015 CCMB cluster, the progress on its plan to provide Davisson cluster, the Hayes E-mail capabilities to all dorm Healy cluster, and the Niewland rooms. Although no rooms will cluster, he said. Prior to the New IBM PS2 DX-4 model computer classroom in room "We increased the number of be fully E-mail functional for redistribution, the Niewland 90's also replaced all the older 228, and all podium machines rooms that have computer podi­two more years, the beginnings cluster featured only Sun Spare IBM machines in the Debartolo used for teaching in the individ­ums availible, so that there are of the wiring were laid in six stations. computer cluster, the Debartolo ual Debartolo classrooms. more availible to use as teach-dorms around campus. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, August 30,1994 


Where will the bridges lead us? 
While crossing the Rio Grande Gorge Bridge into Taos, New Mexico. some­thing quite wondrous came over my mom and I. Like any great road trip adven­ture, mystique, curiosity and wonder become the controlling elements of 

your persona-not to 
BySUzyFRY
mention that undeniable Viewpoint Editor sixth sense of highway patrol detection. 
One of our many escapades took us deep into the spiritual wilds of the High Road to Taos. Northern New Mexico is just as much a land of mystery as its people are a culture of eccentrici­ty; the Pueblo communities coexist with the sci­entific mecca of Los Alamos as well as the pro­lific literary and arts communities that was the home of such talents as D.H. Lawrence and Georgia O'Keefe. Yet amidst all of this, not to mention the cosmopolitan flavor of Santa Fe, lies the early foundation of Christian spirituality in America. 
Perhaps the most enigmatic of all Spanish frontier churches is the 180 year old Santuario de Chimayo. According to the legend, Chimayo is built on a site where a mysterious light came from the ground on Good Friday night in 1810. Investigating villagers soon unearthed a large wooden crucifix from which the light supposed­ly came. A church was subsequently built on this site which also included a natural well. Mud from this well is believed to have miracu­lous healing properties, as the dozens of aban­doned crutches and braces disconcertingly testi­fy. 
If thie assorted medical paraphanalia does not touch you the poetry and prayers of the thankful and hopeful will. Though the ceiling of the adobe chapel is quite tall, the accompanying alcoves shelter their contents in such a blanket­ing, protective manner that even the shortest of the curious have a difficult time not feeling engulfed. To this day people still flock to this holy site by the tens of thousands on Holy Thursday to share in its spiritual powers. 
Chimayo's timeless character convinces one that in this age of cellular communications and synthetic medicines that divine power is real and ordinary. Even at Notre Dame. as we wor­ship in the Basilica and immerse ourselves in the foremost of theological ideals and theories, contemporary and otherwise, it is still difficult to comprehend the gospel miracles. 
The degree to which we believes can always change in magnitude, yet almost never does it seem so absolute until we encounters the lives of the spiritually and physically healed. We are reminded that no matter how far our society progresses technologically and culturally, it is the everlasting elements of divinity coupled with the human condition that will continue to be our spiritual source. 
Though this trip back to school was not the most typical it was certainly one of the most revealing. I can only wonder if crossing the Rio Grande had the same effects on the Spaniards and Georgia O'Keefe as it had on me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production Sarah Doran Belle Bautista Jason Williams Jackie Moser 
Sports George Dohrmann Accent Tim Sherman Mary Good Viewpoint Suzy Fry Graphics Lab Tech Chris Mullins Eric Ruethling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

'Natural Born Killers' debuts atop box office this week 
$2,122 per location, $91.9 million, five 

'Natural Born Killm.'' ~~;,:G~~:~ ~.,···.·.···· •r;;::~:~~:d •__ w~~~·~orinna, Corinna," New Line, $3.8 
Stone's opus of murder and tabloid . movieS million, 698 locations, $5,460 per loca­mayhem, debuted in first place at the tion, $4.3 million, three weeks. box office. Weekend of August 26-28,1994 6. "Color of Night," Disney, $3.5 mil­"Killers," starring Woody Harrelson All dollar figures in millions lion, 1, 7 40 locations, $2,006 per loca­and Juliette Lewis, bumped durable il;' Grosstodate.weeksin weekend tion, $12.9 million, two weeks. 
:~;;:~jl!g~€::~~?l;;:~;;~ ~ ~ §gf~~ ·: ~~~i~::iJr~J:~rJ1;~:?~t;::.
~::;,~;·:'~~ ~;:•go~~b~•~=~!'~,.~;h.~ ~ ~< :.:~=.:.:-~Z~!49 l;~l~i~~~;i ~:;k~2 pe< looation,
$8.2 No. 14. ,.,1,,,. ~~·~0_u~~-~·_2:37~~r~~--------9. "Camp Nowhere," Buena Vista, "Clear and Present Danger" and "The :JI,, The Mask $5.3 $2.76 million, 1,358 locations, $2,029 Mask" continued strong in third and ;,;.,, ~~1_.:·five_~eel<s·~~516screen~-____ per location, $2.76 million, one week. 
~~~:i ~~fdcbe~r:.:~.~~~:~~=~YCor7n~i~~ ~•.. <81' ~o:~~~:~:ascreens $3.B m:Sio·~~h1e,;~i;~~·~a~~~~~r $~~~~2 $:~~ 
hit No. 5 as it went into wide release. =I i •.• , ~~~r-~fNight'_------------$3.5-location, $78.5 million, six weeks. 1
The weekend's Top 15 films, accord-••r.·.,..•.. 8 ~~~-:·-~~~-~·-1?~~~en~----11. "The Little Rascals," Universal, 
ing to Exhibitor Relations Co. Inc., ••1 $2.7 million, 1,885 locations, $1,415 per ~~~!~t~~ actual returns and studio ~·· :IBili ;~~7~;~~~~~·-1~~-~r~--~·4 lo~~~i~~~$::~2.:!~o~~~~; ;i~~~~. 
$2.4 

:t.~:z~~~:::~£.·~~;Ibr~~;~ ~: ;;];·::: ,: ~~;~?.~.~~Fi!~~~~s;~~::~:~:: 
week. ~-' n,~-clie-nt _______________ ---1,469 locations, $1,643 per location, 10
2. "Forrest Gump," Paramount. $9.9 ~· tlliol $2.7 $10.1 million, 2 weeks. million, 2,237 locations, $4,424 per ~~.~.~·.·, w'"' .11l--ew_eeJ<sR_a_sca~~·~ ---­
...•. ~The?~-~L·_SIX 15--scree~ 14. "Wagons East!" Tristar, $1.8 mil-location, $222 million, eight weeks. 1 $2.7 lion, 1,771 locations, $1,018 per loca­
3. 
"Clear and Present Danger," $37·2•1ourweeks, l,B85screens tion, $1.8 million, one week. Paramount, $8.2 million, 2,379 loca-Source:ExhibitorRelationsCo.,lnc. AP 15. "Maverick," Warner Bros., $1.7 tions, $3,432 per location, $86.3 million, four weeks. million, 905 locations, $1,928 per location, $96.3 million, 

4. 
"The Mask," New Line, $5.3 million, 2,516 locations, 15 weeks. 


new low in Haiti's climate of terror. In a statement from his government-in-exile headquarters in Washington,

Bosnian Serbs still reject peace plan 
Aristide called Vincent "a champion of democracy, self­determination and empowerment." Secretary of StateSARAJEVO 

Warren Christopher, in a statement released in

Bosnian Serbs overwhelmingly rejected what was billed Washington, called Vincent's death "a tragic and sad as a last-chance peace plan, but the Russian foreign min­reflection of the state of brutal repression and violenceister on Monday urged them to reconsider. The world that characterizes life in Haiti today." Clergymen have 
powers now face a variety of unappealing options. 
been beaten, imprisoned and expelled from Haiti, butWashington has to decide whether to lift an arms embar­Vincent was the first killed since the military took power. 

go against the Bosnian Muslims. Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic has threatened to attack foreigners in 
Suspects charged in crime spree

retaliation, which could force Britain and France to with­draw their peacekeeping troops. In addition, Russia is under pressure from nationalists at home to lift sanctions PAINESVILLE, Ohio on Serbia. And Serbia could send the Yugoslav army into Aggravated murder charges were filed Monday against the war if Bosnian Muslim troops begin to recapture ter­two "predators" who cut a swath of crime across Min­ritory from the Serbs. The results of the Serb referendum nesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, Indiana and Ohio, a prose­were no surprise in Sarajevo, the capital of the Muslim­cutor said. The crime spree ended Sunday after they shot led government. Sarajevans expressed resignation and and killed a security guard at an adult bookstore and led despair at the prospect of another winter of fighting that police on a car and foot chase that ended in nearby could threaten food aid to hundreds of thousands of Cleveland, authorities said. Benjamin Brooks, 27, of New Bosnians. Haven, Ind.; and Frederick Treesh, 30, of Waterloo, Ind., 
were each indicted two counts of attempted aggravated murder and single counts of aggravated murder, felo­

Haitian priest slain by gunmen 
nious assault, aggravated robbery, fleeing police andPORT-AU-PRINCE possession of a weapon by an ex-convict. Brooks alsoThe Rev. Jean-Marie Vincent once threw his body on was charged with possession of a sawed-off shotgun.

Jean-Bertrand Aristide to save the future president from Lake County Prosecutor Steven LaTourette said theyassassins with machetes. Vincent survived that attack ­would be tried in Ohio before they are extradited to anybut not an ambush outside his home Sunday night. The other state. If convicted of aggravated murder, Brooksdeath shocked the beleaguered pro-Aristide community and Treesh could face the death penalty. "Whoever weand shattered an apparent taboo against killing priests are able to convict of this terrible crime should face anthat had protected the clergy after the military seized equally nasty fate," LaTourette said. Brooks and Treesh power in a September 1991 coup. The assassination of are suspected in at least three carjackings and eightthe gentle Roman Catholic priest was denounced as a armed robberies. 


Tuesday, Aug. 30 
The Accu-Weather<B> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Aug. 30. 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
.,...............a.....a... ............ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-$TORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VJa Associated Press 
Atlanta 93 74 Denver 92 54 New Orleans 93 72 Baltimore 83 73 Houston 95 74 New York 75 58 Boston 81 65 Los Angeles 88 68 Philadelphia 79 60 Chicago 79 53 Miami 84 73 Phoenix 106 85 Columbus 78 59 Minneapolis 1'4 51 St. Louis n 63 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 101994 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 

----------~-------------~ 
Tuesday, August 30, 1994 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• Graduate Student Unh:m 

Orientation events begin with a blast 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Associate News Editor 
Graduate Student Union's (GSU) "Mingle-Mania" week continues orientation activities through Saturday. 
"Women's Guide to Surviving Grad School" will be held today at 4:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room at LaFortune. 
"It's designed to address is­sues women may encounter while they're in grad school. We've already had about 90 R.SV.P.'s returned," Ed Win­genbach, GSU president, said. "So far everything else has been really well attended." 
Events continue Thursday at 
4:30 p.m. with a dissertation workshop in the Notre Dame Room. It will offer students ideas on how to deal with writ­ing and funding problems when writing their dissertations, Wingenbach said. 
A cookout for all graduate students and their families will be held at the Fischer Graduate Community Center beginning at 5:30 p.m. Wingenbach said a play area will be set up for children at the cookout. 
Orientation activities will cul­minate Saturday night at Senior Bar. 
"We've rented out the whole bar and budgeted for free beer and pop," Wingenbach said. ''I'd like to emphasize that both the party and cook-out are for all graduate students, new and returning, their families and significant others." 
GSU will hold their first coun­cil meeting Wednesday in the Notre Dame Room on Sept. 7 beginning at 7 p.m. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS!!! 
DO YOU WANT TO IMPRESS YOUR FRIENDS AND FAMILY BY TELLING THEM YOU VOLUNTEER IN THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE AT NOTRE DAME? HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO HAVE FUN AND ASSIST ADMISSIONSATTHESAME TIME. TinSVOLUNTEERPRO­GRAM IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SEVERAL MAJOR RECRUITMENT PROJECTS, AND WE NEED STUDENT VOLUNTEERS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR. IF THIS SOUNDS INTERESTING TO YOU, COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE TO LEARN MORE m 
OPEN HOUSE: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994 

II II 7:30PM 

II II ROOM123EARTHSCIENCE (BROWNSON COURTYARD) 
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS OR CANNOT MAKE THE MEETING, CALL ANNE PETERSON AT 1-7403 

INTRODUCING THE FOSSIL NOTRE DAME LOGO WATCH 
Salute the Fighting Irish with this limited edition logo watch from Fossil. Watch caseback is numbered for authenticity. Includes a collector's tin and lapel pin. Available while supplies last, $70. 
PHONE ORDERS 24 HOURS A DAY 1-800-528-2345 

L~S~AYRES 




631-7471 


Experience the thrill of victory as The Irish crush The Seminoles in Orlando!
From$2fM) 
Includes: 


./ Ga._me Ticket ./ 2 Nights Hotel ./ Daily Breakfasts ./ Transfers 
Also available: Round~trip flights or deluxe motorcoach packages into Orlando, FL 

1-800-983-3663 
CHAHTEH CLUBS• SPECIAL EVENTS, INC. 
~  WA+lrH""'ta  
ATLANTA SPORTS COUNCIL  .L\lJd.Ll  
A DMSION Of lMI AMHJA OW..U Of COMMIIICS.  

Celebration year continues 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The second semester of the Sesquicentennial year will pro­vide many opportunities for the Saint Mary's community to Pio­neer Change and Honor Tradi­tion, according to Maureen Manier, Director of Communi­cations. 
The celebration of the Sesqui­centennial year began last Jan­uary and will continue through December. 
"The calendar was set this way in order to include as many Saint Mary's students as possible in the celebration of this special time," Manier said. 
"The class of 1998 is entering the College at a wonderful time because there will be a number of speakers and programs for them to learn from." 
• 
All students will be given the opportunity to attend a lee-· ture given by Maya Angelou on October 6. 

• 
The opening of the Contem­porary Quilt Exhibit featuring quilts by some of the most renowned quilters will be on Friday. Quilter Nancy Crow will be giving a lecture on the Sept. 7. 

• 
Women in the forefront of their fields, such as Charlene Seigfried and Miriam Schapiro, and Kathleen Jamieson will be 


giving lectures this fall as well. 
• 
Renowned poet Graciela Reyes will be giving a reading on Sept. 22 

• 
Mary Pat Donohue will be giving a lecture on the Religious Influence on Nursing on Sept. 23. 

• 
A Tribute to Women in Music will be presented on September 14. 


"The involvement of everyone has made the Sesquicentennial year so successful," Manier said. "You can really tell that the respect for the tradition and heritage of Saint Mary's has brought about a great spirit during this celebration." 
page4 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, August 30, 1994 
Searchers reach plane; Officers to be punished 
By SUSANNE SCHAFER dereliction of duty charges be Control Systems aircraft. 
no survivors found 
Associated Press brought against those involved Croker will decide whether 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Searchers have reached a plane that crashed carrying five 
U.S. drug agents in a remote area of Peru's cocaine-produc­ing jungle and confirmed there were no survivors, the Drug Enforcement Administration said Monday. 
The plane crashed Saturday afternoon in a heavily forested region of the Upper Huallaga Valley, where most of Peru's illegal coca crop is grown. Rain and clouds had hampered ef­forts to reach the crash site. 
DEA Administrator Thomas Constantine said a search of the area has confirmed that there were no survivors. 
The agents were identified as Frank Fernandez, 38, of Washington; Jay Seale, 31, of Los Angeles; Meredith Thomp­son, 33, of Miami; Frank Wal­lace Jr., 3 7, of Houston, and Juan Vars, 32, San Antonio, Texas. 
"This incident is devastating for the entire DEA family. We continue to pray for the loved ones of the special agents lost in this tragedy," Constantine said. 
The CASA twin-engine plane was traveling from Santa Lucia when it lost contact with air traffic control. 
The DEA said the cause of the crash was under investigation but there was no sign of fire or explosion, according to the search team which included Peruvian military and DEA per­sonnel. 
The agents were taking part in Operation Snowcap, an effort started in 1987 in which U.S. agents work closely with Peru­vian and Bolivian officials to dismantle cocaine networks. About 10 DEA agents are as­signed to Peru and another 12 to Bolivia, the DEA said. 
WASHINGTON 
A senior military board has recommended that up to five AWACS crew members be court-martialed for their part in the accidental downing of two 
U.S. Army helicopters over Iraq last April, Pentagon sources said Monday. 
Twenty-six people, including 15 Americans, were killed in the April 14 "friendly fire" in­cident, one of the worst self­inflicted losses in U.S. military history. 
"This is a very preliminary recommendation to the senior convening authority," said one senior Pentagon source, who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
That authority, a three-star Air Force general, must review the recommendation and de­cide whether to refer the cases for further action by the mili­tary's judicial system. 
The board suggested that 

Clinton takes a break at the beach 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Ptess 
EDGARTOWN 

President Clinton, who began his summer vacation with a frantic weekend of outdoor sports, whiled away a rainy day Monday inside. He slept late, read books and spent time with the family. 
"They haven't been doing a whole lot of anything," press secretary Dee Dee Myers said. 
The Clintons are borrowing a 25-acre estate for their Martha's Vineyard vacation, but the president spent much of his first two days golfmg, jog­ging and sailing. 
The warm, sunny weather 

1 turned drab and wet Monday, forcing the president to spend most of the day inside the spa­cious home of developer Richard Friedman. "He's been spending time with Mrs. Clinton reading," said Myers, who briefed reporters in a blue-jean jacket and T -shirt. "He's just trying to relax." The couple's daughter, Chelsea, 14, rented a movie for herself and a friend. Not doing much of anything could mean an interesting con­versation. The Clintons were to have din­ner at the Martha's Vineyard summer home of author William Styron. He wrote "Sophie's Choice," "Confessions of Nat Turner" and a lot more. And Styron's house guest is 
-

Gabriel Garcia Marquez, win­ner of the Nobel Prize for litera­ture, one of Latin America's best known literary lights ­and a friend of Cuba's Fidel Castro. 
Just last week Garcia Marquez interceded with Castro on be­half of dissident Cuban writer Norberto Fuentes, who had been on a 23-day hunger strike. Fuentes was allowed to fly to Mexico after Garcia Marquez asked Castro to let him leave. 
Castro has unleashed a riptide of discontented migrants to­ward U.S. shores. Clinton is re­sisting with Coast Guard cutters and detention camps. 
To Garcia Marquez, Fidel Cas­tro is "a very cultured, well­read man with a keen eye for spotting contradictions." 
Clinton may leave his vacation digs to make a Labor Day visit in Maine. 
Myers said the president may attend a rally at Bath Iron Works, Maine's largest em­ployer, which recently signed a novel labor agreement, under which the company and work­ers will share many major de­cision-making powers. "I don't think the final decisions have been made," she said. 
He also could also make a side visit to a YMCA camp near Au-has skipped a couple of political fund-raisers on the island and has no plans to attend any of the bashes scheduled in the next week or so he will be on vacation. 
The presidential visit has in­spired a rash of special T­shirts, including those featur: ing: 
• A dog with Clinton's face plastered on it. "Top dog," it reads. 
in controlling air operations over northern Iraq, a second source said. 
The two F-15 pilots are also expected to face some type of disciplinary action. Whether they also will face a court-mar­tial is still being looked at, the second official said. 
A Pentagon study of the inci­dent released last month showed that the controllers on board the A WACS aircraft knew the two Black Hawk choppers were in the area, but failed to warn two F-15 pilots when the fliers reported that they had sighted the helicopters. 
The two F-15 pilots, believing the Black Hawks were Iraqis, shot them down one after an­other. 
The recommendations about the AWACS crew members will go to Lt. Gen. Steve Croker, the commander of the 8th Air Force in Barksdale, La. Croker has command of all the Air Force's Airborne Warning and the recommendation should be accepted, and whether the cases against the crew mem­bers should move forward. 
Gen. John Shalikashvili, chair­man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in July that there were "a shocking number of instances where individuals failed to do their jobs properly." 
Last week, Defense Secretary William Perry decided that the Pentagon would pay $100,000 to each of the families of the 11 foreign citizens killed in the ac­cident. Military officers from Britain, France and Turkey and five Kurdish workers employed by the United States were aboard the choppers. 
The aircraft were ferrying members of an international group that had been working with the Kurds in northern Iraq since the end of the Persian Gulf war in 1991. 
The development about the boards' finding was first re­ported by CBS-TV. 

The Observer 
is looking for 
News Writers 
If interested in writing news stories for The Observer, please call Sarah Doran at 631-5323. 
LAST CHANCE! 

FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1995-96 
Attention Current Seniors! ! ! ! ! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7-7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 
gusta to attend a Labor Day L-------------------------------------' 
picnic hosted by Joseph Bren­nan, a former two-term gover­nor who is the Democratic nominee in this year's guber­natorial race. 
Intent on relaxation, Clinton 


----
~--~ 

Hours M-S I lam-Jam 
DOOLITTLES PUB 291-6544 
Sun 12-12 
Thanks ND and St. Mary's for voting us the #1 spot in South Bend 
STOP IN & SEE THE NEW EXPANSION 
Serving food Ilam-Midnite daily Home of tile DooLittles Amazing Sub & I/2 lb Pub Burger 
Join the Around the World Import Club Stop in for more information 
EVERY SUNDAY NnE "RocK SUNDAY" 101 DART TOURNAMENT $5 ENTRY, 100% PAY BACK 
.---~--------------------­
Tuesday, August 30, 1994 
Israel reaffirms control of Gaza Strip border 
By SAID GHAZALI 
Associated Press 
EREZ CROSSING 

Palestinians won some au­tonomous powers in the occu­pied West Bank today, but con­tinued Israeli authority in the Gaza Strip led Pakistan's prime minister to cancel a trip to the self-rule zone. 
Israel's prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin, admonished Pakistani leader Benazir Bhutto to "learn some man­ners" after she refused to coor­dinate her visit to autonomous Gaza with Israel. Predominantly Muslim Pakistan does not recognize the Jewish state and shuns con­tacts with Israelis. 
Ms. Bhutto, scheduled to ar­rive Sunday, was to be the first foreign leader to set foot in Gaza since limited Palestinian self-rule began there and in the West Bank town of Jericho in May. 
But the trip ran into trouble Sunday when Israel refused to let a Pakistani diplomat into Gaza to help prepare for the visit. Israel said the diplomat was barred because Jerusalem wasn't notified of his arrival in advance. 
Today, Miss Bhutto canceled the visit after Israel demanded she clear the trip with Israeli authorities. 
"The Israelis have put up ob­structions that violate the agreement with the Palestini­ans," Pakistan's Foreign Min­istry spokesman, Munir Akram, said. 
On the advice of Pakistani diplomats, Ms. Bhutto was call­ing off the trip, he said. 
Under the autonomy accord, Israel remains in charge of for­eign relations and border crossings into the autonomy zones. 
The agreement also stipulates that guests from countries that don't have diplomatic relations with Israel "shall be required to obtain a special visitor's per­
mit  to  be  issued  by  the  
Palestinian  Authority  and  
cleared by Israel."  

Israel, which occupied Gaza and the West Bank in 1967, is sensitive to attempts to side­step its continued authority there and turn the interim autonomy phase into full Palestinian statehood. 
"We must teach the lady from Pakistan a little manners," Ra­bin told a news conference at the Weizmann Institute of Sci­ence in Rehovoth, a town south of Tel Aviv. 
The Observer 
is looking to fill the position of Systems Manager 
Applicant must be well-versed in the Macintosh operating system and knowledgeable in EtherNet Networking. If interested in applying for this paid position, contact Jake Peters at 631-4542. Applicant must also submit a resume and two-page letter of intent by Friday. 

s 
Saturday 
September 3, 1994 
A 8:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m. 
T 
117 Cushing Auditorium 
Sign-up in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
-------------~-~~--------­
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
China, U.S. improve relations 
By RENEE SCHOOF 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

Temporarily shelving their squabbles, China and the United States on Monday estab­lished ways to improve trade and investment relations and make China an easier place for Americans to do business. 
An agreement signed by visit­ing Commerce Secretary Ronald Brown and China's Foreign Trade Minister Wu Yi creates a framework for talks aimed at establishing improved long-term commercial pacts. Corporate executives traveling with Brown also signed deals worth tens of millions of dol­lars. 
The Brown entourage's trip to China, which began Saturday, is the first high-level U.S. visit since President Clinton sepa­rated economics and human rights abuses in his adminis­tration's dealings with Beijing three months ago. 
China has publicly portrayed the trip as opening a new era in its American relationship, de­spite persistent underlying ten­sions over Chinese treatment of political dissenters, Chinese counterfeiting of U.S. goods and other issues. 
For the Americans, the trip represents an opportunity to 

Know the warning signs. Early 
• detection may save your life. 

American Heart Association 
© 1992, American Heart Association 
cussed ways it might help train A growing deficit Chinese managers and help 

improve China's system of commercial law. "We must always look to the long-term to create the oppor­
tunity to develop the kind of
China and the U.S. agreed Monday to launch trade and investment lasting trade and investment talks, as China's massive trade relationship that China and the surplus grows yearly. 
United States must have," Brown told the signing cere­
U.S. dollars, in billions 
35 mony. Earlier in the day Brown met 
30 

with Chinese Premier Li Peng. The official news agency Xin­
25 

hua quoted Li as saying rela­20 tions between the United States and China have been
15 

improving since Clinton met with Chinese President Jiang
10 

Zemin last November in 5 Seattle. 
Brown was scheduled to meet with Jiang, China's presi-Source: u.s. Dept. of Commerce dent and Communist Party 
[______:_______A-:-:P::-:/C::-a---crlc::F:--'ox leader, on Tuesday. 

strengthen the U.S. corporate position in the biggest single market in the world. 
"We are not ideological or philosophical about this. We are relentlessly pragmatic, bot­tom-line oriented," Brown said. 
The two sides agreed to set up regular meetings on expanding trade and investment in such areas as telecommunications, electric power, aviation, cars and services. 
The United States also dis-
Brown raised concerns about human rights privately with Chinese leaders, said a senior 
U.S. government official travel­ing with him who briefed re­porters on condition of anonymity. He declined to dis­close the comments or how they were received. 
The 24 American executives accompanying Brown represent large U.S. corporations in industries ranging from energy 
to toys. 

Dissidents detained as 
U.S. authority visits 
By CHARLENE FU 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

The arrival of a U.S. Cabinet member kicked into gear Chi­na's security apparatus with the usual round of dissident detentions and surveillance that accompany any sensitive Western visit. 
Dissidents have felt aban­doned since U.S. authorities disconnected the issue of hu­man rights from trade. Human rights groups say the move freed Chinese authorities to crack down harder. 
Over the weekend, police started taking up positions out­side the homes of political ac­tivists in Beijing. Some dissi­dents reported being followed to work and at least one dissi­dent's phone line appears to have been cut. 
Wang Dan, a prominent stu­dent leader of the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy movement, was detained for 12 hours Saturday, the night Commerce Secretary Ron Brown arrived. 
Such security precautions are intended to prevent any private meetings of the visitors with dissidents and to discourage embarrassing protests. They are standard procedure every time a high-level Western offi­cial comes to town. 
Brown is the first Cabinet member to visit China since President Clinton decided in May to sever the link between normal trade relations and China's human rights practices. 
Human rights groups say Clinton's decision lifted the last bit of international pressure on China's authoritarian govern­ment, leaving it free to adopt an even harsher stand against dissent. 
The U.S. policy "kept the more egregious repressive im­pulses of the (Chinese) gov­ernment in check," said Robin Munro, Hong Kong director of Human Rights Watch-Asia. "The government now feels more free to ... pursue what has always been its goal: to si­lence dissent." 
,.---------------,
I wqe ~£fu 1J!ork Wimes I 
1 DELIVERED FOR ONLY 40 CENTS/DAY MON-SAT! I 
0 MON-FRI: $2'F 0 MON-SUN: $7010I OMON-SAT: $3160 OSUN ONLY: $3850 I Fall delivery begins Mon., Sept. 5th & ends December 1fJ' II (No deliveryfall or tlumksgiving breaks)
I I
MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO: CITY NEWS SERVICE 
I .. Cup and~ to: City News Service, 1147 Mishawaka Ave., South 1Jeru4 IN46615 I ''Mupfor offrumpus stuflents available at info desk in l..aRJrtune" .J
L 


----------,-~-----­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, August 30, 1994 
All Artist Tube Paints 
• 
Uquitex• Acrylics 

• 
Academy Watercolors 

• 
Pretest Oils 

• 
Max Oils 

• 
Cotman Watercolors 

• 
Winton Oils 

• 
Artist Watercolors 

• 
Artist Oils 

• 
Bob Ross Oils 


All Canvas Tote Bags 
Canvas totes in six colors. Ready to decorate. Reg. 3.99 SALE 1.99 
Includes MiTientes sheets, Arches Cold & Hot Press, Strathmore illustration board & more. 
999 
Reg 14 99 
Rapidograph Pens 

For technical and fine art work. Six point sizes. 
30% 
Off 
Our Everyday low Price 
All Artist Mediums & Finishes 

Gesso, matte and gloss mediums and more. 
Artist Gallery Drafting Set 
Table and chair set with reversible, laminate tabletop and padded, adjustable chair. 
Fredrix & Decorative 
Fine Art 

Stretched Brushes 
Canvas 
• 21 sizes
• 
Winsor & Newton 



• 4 X 5" to 36 X 40"
• 
Grumbacher 


• 
Uquitex• • Double primed 

• 
Loew Cornell • First quality 

cW,[!:J!l!sl1~
11 TO 6 SUN. 

We reserve the right to limit quantities. 
IYOUR TOTAL PURCHASE I OF REGULAR PRICE ART SUPPLIES 
50% 
Off 
Our Everyday Low Price 

All Artist Clay, Plaster & Accessories 
Pottery tools, Plastalina, Marblex, !I.IIJ~i!11• Mexican clay, moist clay, Fimo, Sculpey and more. 
30% 
Off 
Our Everyday low Price 
Liquitex® 

All Artist Basics 
Easels 
Art marker plus art stick 

Table and floor models. and 12-count pencil sets. 
Styles for students to professionals. 
30% 
40% 
Off Off 
Our Everyday low Price Our E\'eryday lo" Price 
All 

All X-Acto Products 
Tempera Paint 
Technical knife selection. 
Palmer Dry, Jazz Uquid, more. 

MISHAWAKA 
University Center Shopping Center 6502 North Grape Road at Interstates 80 & 90 
271-0112 

Selected .t. Strathmore Pads S. 
Drawing pads, watercolor paper, newsprint and more, all in the 
most popular sizes. 
30% 
Off 
Our Everyday low Price 
All Airbrushes 
Paasche VL & H, Crescendo and Badger 100, 150, 175, 200 or 350. 
30% 
Off 
Our Everyday lou; Price 
Art Erasers 
Kneaded, Magic Rub, Touchmatic, Pink Pearl and more. 
All Artist Sets 
Pencils, acrylics, oils, watercolors and more. 
30% 
Off 
Our E\•eryday low Price 
All Open Stock Pencils 
Berol Prismacolor pencils, Conte pastels, design pencils, more. 


Tuesday, August 30, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Quayle gearing up for presidential run 
By RITA BEAMISH 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Former Vice President Dan Quayle has all but decided to seek the presidency in 1996 and is beginning to lay the groundwork for a campaign, a close associate said Monday. 
He will begin to campaign for Republican congressional and gubernatorial candidates and is planning major speeches to try out possible themes for the 1996 campaign, according to the associate, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Quayle recently returned with his family from a long vacation, during which they discussed 
Exxon clean-up case in final stages 
By ROSANNE PAGANO 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE 

A lawyer seeking $15 billion in punitive damages from Exxon held up a copy of "All I Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten" and told jurors in closing arguments Monday to follow the bestseller's advice. 
"When you hurt someone, you say you're sorry. When you make a mess, you clean it up. We didn't have that here," said attorney Brian O'Neill, who is suing Exxon Corp. on behalf of more than 10,000 Alaska na­tives, fishermen and landown­ers. 

whether he should seek the Republican nomination. All in­dications are that the answer is yes, said the friend who spoke to Quayle after the vacation. 
Another associate said Quayle has made clear to friends that he would like to run and con­tinues to evaluate the feasibility of a race by contacting poten­tial campaign contributors. 
Quayle's positive leaning was heavily influenced by the strong sales of his book, "Standing Firm." He had counted on the response to the book, which has sold more than 500,000 copies, to give him an indica­tion of his support. 
The book is largely a memoir of his vice presidency under 
But Exxon lawyers told jurors the company already had learned a lesson from the 1989 tanker wreck that spilled nearly 11 million gallons of crude oil into Prince William Sound in the nation's worst oil spill. 
Jurors in the federal civil trial got the case late Monday and deliberated about a half hour before retiring for the day. De­liberations were to resume Tuesday. 
The jury already decided that Exxon and skipper Joseph Hazelwood were reckless in causing the spill and awarded commercial fishermen $286 million in damages to repay them for canceled fishing sea-
Top Ten Ways to get your Pizza Delivered Faste..--r:_____, 
10. Remember the 219 area code when calling from Chicago, Detroit, or Carroll 
9. Don't move -stay by the phone number you give us. 
8. Don't use the name Scott Bentley when ordering. 
7. Know exactly what type of pizza you want when calling. 
6. Have you check ready with driver's license number, address, and phone number. 
5. Remember to mention your coupon. 
4. Don't select human liver as one of the toppings. 
3. Do use the name Regis when ordering. 
2. Promise to give your CBlD T-shirt as atip. 
1. Call before 5:00 p.m. on nights when the dining halls are serving meatless baked ziti. 
President Bush, four years dur­ing which he was dogged by ridicule and a lightweight image despite his substantial political role within the White House. 
Quayle previously has said he would make a decision on run­ning for president this fall. 
A spokesman at Quayle's of­fice in Indianapolis had no comment Monday. 
Quayle, a former U.S. senator from Indiana, became head of an investment company in In­dianapolis after Bush lost his re-election bid. 
Quayle plans to try out his conservative message in a keynote speech next month at the Christian Coalition annual 
sons and damage to fisheries. Hazelwood has been acquitted in state court of operating a tanker while drunk. 
And in a settlement earlier this month, Exxon agreed to pay $20 million to about 3,500 Alaska natives who lost sources of traditional foods. 
In arguing for punitive dam­ages, O'Neill told the jury to ap­ply simple rules such as those in Robert Fulghum's bestselling book. 
But Exxon lawyer James Neal asked the jury to consider that the company already has been fined nearly $1 billion in othe government's criminal case and conference in Norfolk, Va. 
He also will speak Sept. 9 at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco. That was the loca­tion of his famous "Murphy Brown" speech as vice presi­dent that caused an uproar when he attacked the popular TV sitcom character for having a baby out of wedlock. 
Quayle also for the first time since leaving office will cam­paign on behalf of other Re­publicans. He plans to make a series of campaign appear­ances before the November elections, including for Califor­nia Gov. Pete Wilson, and pos­sibly for Virginia Senate candi­date Oliver North, the former Reagan White House aide. 
spent more than $2 billion on cleanup. 
O'Neill also urged a symbolic award of $1 against Hazelwood, a co-defendant in the trial and the only Exxon employee fired as a result of the spill. 
In his closing statement Mon­day, Hazelwood's lawyer ar­gued against even a symbolic award, saying that Hazelwood has lost his livelihood and would never sail again with the merchant marine. 
Though the jury found Hazel­wood and Exxon reckless in the trial's earlier phase, it is not required to assess punitive damages, which are intended to punish and deter wrongdoing. 
NOW HIRING 
Delivery & Inside Personnel 
•Flexible 
Schedule 

•Top 
Pay ·1~ hr. schedules avail­able 

•112 
price pizza •EOE 


G.M. plant up, running again 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

General Motors Corp. restarted production Monday at the last of 16 assembly plants it closed last week when it ran out of bumpers and lights from a GM parts plant where workers went on strike. 
"We are back to normal," company spokesman Ralph Kramer said Monday after­noon after work re.sumed at a Pontiac plant that builds full­size pickups. 
Ward's Automotive Reports, a trade journal, estimated the three-day strike at GM's Inland Fisher Guide plant in Anderson, Ind., caused the company to lose production of 22,000 cars and trucks. 
Several of the plants forced to close make popular vehicles GM is having a hard time sup­plying, including pickups, sport-utility vehicles, Chevrolet Camaros, Pontiac Firebirds and full-size vans. 
GM wouldn't confirm the Ward's estimate, but Kramer said the company will work to make up the lost production. 
"That's obviously the objec­tive .... We sure need the product," he said. 

-----------~-----­
page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, August 30, 1994 
Economic growth slowing, average income growing 
ByJAMES H. RUBIN had risen a scant 0.1 percent in Associated Press June. Consumer spending, which WASHINGTON represents two-thirds of the 
The income of Americans nation's economic activity, has rose moderately but more advanced five of the last six rapidly than consumer spend­months. But the July rise was ing in July, the latest signs that less than the gains of 0.5 per­economic growth appears to be cent in June and 0.6 percent in slowing. The report was wel­May. comed by fmancial markets. Income last fell in January, by 
The Commerce Department 0.6 percent. said Monday that income Analysts said the figures point climbed for the sixth straight to an economy that is shedding month, advancing 0.5 percent, momentum, at least partly in while spending rose for the reaction to a series of five third month in a row, but by boosts in short-term interest just 0.2 percent. rates by the Federal Reserve. 
Disposable income -income "There is no overheating after taxes -also was up 0.5 here," said economist Paul percent last month. Both Boltz ofT. Rowe Price Associ­income and disposable income ates in Baltimore. "The 
U.S. seeks supporting cast to bomb Haiti 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration's plan to force Haiti's military junta to quit the country will get a boost Tuesday when Caribbean foreign and defense ministers assemble in Jamaica with pledges to join a U.S.-led military coalition. 
Several countries are expect­ed to announce they will con­tribute troops to the coalition that would move into Haiti to stabilize the country -whether or not Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras and his cohorts depart under pressure of U.S. economic sanc­tions and international con­demnation. 
Barbados, Jamaica and Belize have already agreed to con­tribute troops to the coalition, most of which will come from the United States. But in a strong sign of unity, about a half-dozen other countries are expected to step forward dur­ing the high-profile Jamaica meeting. 
"The planning is proceeding and it is incorrect to say that the timetable has been set back because of Cuba," said a senior 
U.S. official, commenting on published reports that the tide of Cuban refugees has put on the back burner plans to restore elected Haitian Presi­dent Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
The U.S. delegation to Kingston, Jamaica, will be headed by Strobe Talbott, the deputy secretary of state, and John M. Deutch, the deputy de­fense secretary. Leon Fuerth, an official of the National Secu­rity Council who reports to Vice President AI Gore, will be there as well. 
Sunday's assassination in Port-au-Prince of the Rev. Jean-Marie Vincent, 49, who saved Aristide's life seven years ago, underscored the violence that increased after a bloody army coup ousted Aristide in September 1991. 
Antoine Joseph, former presi­dent of Haiti's lower house of parliament, compared Vin­cent's killing to the assassina­tion of another Roman Catholic priest by thugs in the last months of the brutal Duvalier dictatorship in 1985. 
"The first killing was an ill omen for the Duvalier dic­tatorship. This one is an ill omen for the de facto r~gime" that has run Haiti since Aris­tide's ouster, Joseph said. 
State Department spokesman Michael McCurry condemned the assassination and said in a public message to "those who continue these inhuman and senseless assassinations: Your crimes only increase our out­rage and strengthen our resolve to rid Haiti of your abuses." 
The planned coalition force of thousands of troops, supple­mented by police, civilian tech­nicians and administrators, would have the task of stabiliz­ing Haiti -by forcibly remov­ing Cedras and other military leaders if they do not quit the country first. If the junta leaves, the coalition's task is to restore order. 
It would be followed by a peacekeeping force being as­sembled by the United Nations. Some 40 countries are expected to contribute to this second­phase operation. Half have al­ready signed on. 
On another front, in what a senior U.S. official called "a last effort to settle the issue peace­fully," the Talbott-Deutch dele­gation will stop in the Do­minican Republic to check on enforcement of U.N. sanctions against Haiti. 
The aim is "to give the sanc­tions screw the last tightening" by dispatching a crew of 88 observers on the border to monitor compliance, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
bounceback in income was im­and spending meant that pressiv!l. Income growth is eas­Americans' savings rate -sav­ily exceeding inflation." ings as a percentage of dis­
"The July consumer spending posable income -was 4.1 per­data imply that the third quar­cent in June, up from a revised ter is off to a slow start," econ­3.7 percent the previous month. omists for Merrill Lynch & Co. The Commerce Department said in a statement. "Consumer previously pegged the savings spending ... looks like it will rate at 4 percent for June. rise at only around a 2 percent The government on Friday rate for the third quarter." said the economy expanded at 
The Dow Jones industrial a 3.8 percent annual rate in the average gained nearly 18 second three months of 1994. points. Bond prices moved The smaller-than-expected fig­higher after the report, pushing ure helped stocks rally last interest rates down, but then week. Many analysts predict fell back to steady to slightly the economy will grow at a rate lower levels. of around 2.5 percent in the 
The July figures for spending third quarter. and income generally were in The Commerce Department line with analysts' expectations. said Monday that wages and 
The combination of incomes salaries, the most closely watched component of income, increased $15.3 billion in July after a $5 billion rise in June. 
Government wages and salaries rose $1.6 billion in July, after declining $1.5 billion the previous month due to a drop in buyouts for government employees who left work. 
Spending on long-lasting items declined 1.1 percent in July to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $579 billion as car buying slowed. 
"Consumers have become more cautious about making significant commitments such as cars," said Sung Won Sohn of Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis. "The trend has been established in both hous­ing and autos." 

RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 

Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also receive of talented students. If you qualify, 
an allowance of up to $1000 each these merit-based scholarships can school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational effect. Find out today if you qualify. 
ARMY ROTC 

TIE SMARTEST C:OWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 

Back To School 
OUR ALREADY REDUCED PRICES 
277-9711 
MON.-FRI 9:00-8:30
• CARPET • VINYL 
SAT. 9:00-5:30
• WOOD • CERAMIC 
SUN. 1:00-5:30
• AREA RUGS 
Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road, Mishawaka 
OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 


Tuesday, August 30, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS page9 
Tests reveal alzheimer's susceptibility 
By MALCOLM RITTER dementia within four years, and tests, we can confidently say Medicine and the Montefiore Associated Press another group who went on to that over the next four years Medical Center in New York. He get dementia at only a 5 per­you probably won't be getting and colleagues present the 
NEW YORK 

cent rate over that time. dementia," he said. study in the August issue of the 
Elderly people who take a se­
Dementia basically refers to journal Neurology. 
ries of standard psychological 
That means the tests can dis­significant declines in intellec­
tests can learn whether they 
tinguish between those who tual abilities such as memory While other scientists are doing
have high or low risk of getting 
should get a more detailed and reasoning. Alzheimer's dis­similar work, Masur's result "is 
Alzheimer's or a similar dis­
evaluation and make plans for ease is the most common kind probably the best in terms of 
ease, a study suggests. 
their future care, and those of dementia. predictive value so far," said 
The tests, given to outwardly 
who can be reassured they Dr. Leonard Berg, chairman of
healthy people, identified one 
have little short-term risk, said Masur is an associate clinical the Alzheimer's Association 
group with an 85 percent rate 
lead author Dr. David Masur. professor of neurology at the Medical and Scientific Advisory
of developing intellect-robbing 
"If you score well on these Albert Einstein College of Board. 
Race issue brought-up in O.J. case 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES A racial undercurrent in the 
O.J. Simpson case surfaced in court Monday as defense lawyers attacked the credibili­ty of the detective who found a bloody glove on Simpson's es­tate by claiming he is racist. 
The officer's lawyer accused "desperate, snooping defense attorneys" of character assas­sination.
Notre Dame and Jazz Fans! 
"The lives of two innocent human beings have been tragi­cally taken in this matter. Now
Notre Dame vs. Northwestern 
a third life is being destroyed day by day," said Detective 
Mark Fuhrman's attorney. Robert Tourtelot. 
September 3, 1994 
The South Shore Line will provide an extra train departing Chicago at 11:30 p.m. 
"What Mark is experiencing is a result of having been false­ly accused of being a racist 
for South Bend fans returning from the Northwestern game at Soldier Field. One 
way adult fare is $8.65. 
and a bad cop." Allegations flew during the heated hearing on what rights 
the defense has to police and military files on Fuhrman. The 
Chicago Jazz Festival 
Petrillo Music Shell, Grant Park 
detective says he found a bloody glove outside Simpson's 
One block east of Van Buren stop. Best Jazz in the Midwest. Begins at noon. Main 
house the day after the killings 
stage opens at 5:00p.m. September 3-4. Special South Shore Line train will depart of Simpson's ex-wife and a friend. The glove, Fuhrman
Chicago for South Bend at 11:30 p.m. both days. 
said, appeared to be the mate of one found at the murder scene.
Trains depart South Bend Airport for Chicago everyt ~ 
Superior Court Judge Lance Ito said he would rule on
~%~ ~~.rs on weekends and holidays beginning at ~~]J!qt]\lKJ~~~ whether to make any Fuhrman records available after reading written arguments. 
Call 1-800-356-2079 for more information. 
e 

u;itb CD-ROM, Apple' Color Plus 14' Display, with CD-ROM, Apple' Mulliple Sam 15 Display, Aj1J/eDesign" Keyboard and mouse. AppleDesign" Keyboard andmouse. 

With Apple's special low student pricing, you can get aterrific deal on Macintosh~ Macintoslf-the worlds fastest Mac~ And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal com­the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford­puter, you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, aMac able Macintosh Performa; which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help is as easy to afford as it is to use. All ofwhich makes it the ideal time to Ap 1 .'­get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple" PowerBook" or the Power discover the power all college students need. The power to be your bese p1e . 


Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 
©1994A[p1e CompuJer; Inc. All rights~ A[p/e, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh (Juadra, Pe!forma, l'rlwerBooR and "/bepower to be your best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Int. App/eDesign, Mac andl'rlwer Macintosh are trademarks ofA[ple CompuJer; Inc. 
WELCOM.Ii WEEK '94 
brought to you by Student Activities and the Student Union Board 

Wednesday, August 31 
4 pm to 10 pm 
OPEN HousE­
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER Stop on in and see what we have to offer -VISit offices and businesses, play Vrrtual Reality, hear live music, have your fortunes told, lots of other novelty events, free food, and tons of door prizes including American Airline tickets, CD players, concert tickets, ND sweatshirt, pizza, and much, much more! ! ! 

8 pm to 1 am LATE NIGHT MoviE FEsT 
Free Movies all night long in the LaFortune Ballroom 
8:00pm  Singles  
9:45pm  Dazed and Confused  
11:25 pm  Reality Bites  


Thursday, September 1 
6 pm to 11 pm 

RocKFEST III ­
FIELDHOUSE MALL 
The following bands are scheduled to appear: George and the Freaks RoapApples Sunshine Wme True North VRS 
Free Popcorn and Soda! ! ! 

Free Popcorn and Soda!!! 
Saturday, September 3 
7:30 pm to 1 am. 
FooTBALL, GAl\tEs, & MoviES 
7:30pm  Watch the ND v. Northwestern game on the big screen in The Huddle or the Gorch Games room.  
8 pm, 10 & 12am  pm,  The hit movie Four Weddings and a Funeral. FREE in the Montgomexy Theatre.  
9pm -1 am  Free billiards in the Gorcb Games Room.  
10pm -11 pm  Free video  in the Corch Games Room.  

Tuesday,August 30, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 11 
Surgeon General's son busted, sentenced for drugs 
By BILL SIMMONS 
Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK A judge sentenced a son of 
U.S. Surgeon General Joycelyn Elders on Monday to 10 years in prison for selling one-eighth of an ounce of cocaine to an undercover policeman. 
As Kevin Elders was led off to jail, the surgeon general fought back tears, while his father, Oliver, slammed his hands into a steel door in frustration. 
Kevin Elders, 28, had claimed entrapment, saying the infor­mant who set up the July 29, 1993, deal had threatened to expose his drug habit and em­barrass his mother at her con­firmation hearing. 
The sale of the $275 worth of cocaine was Elders' first of­fense~ but Circuit Judge John Plegge said the law required him to impose the minimum 10­year sentence. He could have been sentenced to life. 
Elders' attorney, P.A. "Les" Hollingsworth, said he would appeal. 
The judge set bond at $10,000. The prosecutor said it would be at least Tuesday be­fore Elders was released. 
Kevin Elders has acknowl­
~IIM.!I 
a! SAINT MARY'S 
ATTENTION ND/SMC 
STUDENTS: 
We need desk clerks, housemen, and bartenders! 
Apply in person, any time of the day. 

The TI-85 builds on the functionality of the TI-68 and adds a wide range of graphing capabilities. So 
math students can handle calculus problems more easily. And technical stu­dents can see the functions for a better understanding of problems. The Tl-85 also handles complex numbers, matrices, vectors, lists and strings. Plus it offers a powerful one-equation SOLVER. 
The TI-68 solves up to five simultane­ous equations. Has complex number functions. Offers formula program­ming. Even has a last equation replay feature. All at a great price. 
edged having a decade-long drug problem, including a three-year cocaine addiction. 
At his trial, Elders said his parents were aware of his drug problems, but that they never discussed it. "They really didn't know how bad it really is," he said. 
In a recent letter to PJegge, Mrs. Elders asked for leniency for her son and to "give our son and our family a second chance," the Arkansas Demo­crat-Gazette reported Monday. 
Mrs. Elders said when her son needed her most she was too busy with politics. "As I sat there watching my son, I thought of how much and how long he had suffered because at the time of his greatest need, we had not been able to com­municate as a family," she wrote. "I was totally immersed in trying to get through a very difficult Senate confirmation hearing in Washington, D.C." 
Mrs. Elders was nominated for surgeon general on July 1, 1993, six months after Presi­dent Clinton first announced his intention to pick her. She won Senate confirmation Sept. 7, 1993. 
Elders was arrested Dec. 19, 1993, five months after the drug sale, on a warrant issued a week after his mother sug­gested at a National Press Club luncheon that the government study legalization of drugs as a possible means of reducing the nation's crime rate. 
Mrs. Elders said her son has undergone drug rehabilitation and has successfully managed rental property that belongs to the family. 
Mter the sentencing, Elders, his lawyer and his parents were taken to the lockup, where they talked for a few minutes. Elders hugged his mother and was taken away. 
Drug, cash, health study released 
Associated Press Department of Alcohol and Drug Programs comes at a time of public skepticism over the LOS ANGELES benefits of such programs. Drug and alcohol treatment 
programs help reduce crime "Most people don't believe 
and lower health care costs, treatment works, and they're 
saving millions for taxpayers, wrong. That's why a study like 
says a study released Monday. this is so important," said Alan The study for the California Leshner, director of the Na­tional Institute on Drug Abuse. The study estimated that $1.5 billion in savings resulted from the $209 million the state spent on treatment between October 1991 and September 1992. Most of the savings came as a result of fewer crimes commit­ted by those in treatment. The rest was largely due to a drop in health care expenses for the users. The study based its conclu­sions on subjects' recollections of their behavior before and after they had undergone treat­ment. The authors said they took pains to avoid exag­gerating savings. The study found that use of 
Engineering, math or science major? Serious stuff. Get a TI-68 Advanced Scientific or TI-85 Graphing Calculator from Texas Instruments. They're designed for students and professionals and recommended by professors. 
Get the serious functionality you demand at a price you can afford. Try a TI-68 or TI-85 at your local TI retailer today, or for more informa­tion, call 1-800-TI-CARES. 
E X T E N D I N G Y 0 U R R E A C H'" 
~TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
e-mail: ti-cares@ lobby.ti.com In Canada, call 1·800-661-2007. ©19941'1. 1H000182 
crack cocaine, cocaine powder and amphetamines declined by almost half after treatment. Heroin use dropped by one-fifth and alcohol use by nearly one­third. 
The study's authors were sur­prised to learn crack cocaine use could be treated so effec­tively. 
"No one has really determined that previously," said Dean R. Gerstein of the University of Chicago's National Opinion Research Center, which con­ducted the study with Lewin­VHI Inc of Fairfax, Va. 
Leshner and Andrew Mecca, director of the state Depart­ment of Alcohol and Drug Pro­grams, said they would use the study, which cost $2 million, to persuade elected officials to continue to invest public money in treatment programs. 
Experts called the study one of the most rigorous ever con­ducted on the subject of drug treatment. 
r:Jde some lime oul and bas£.in !.he sun, pulyour boo/is down w.hen classes are done;9el oul and enfoy frje -!jofly a baf.. loon, !Your mainlenanl, uous eles u.in!Jf~ef.-une. 
2Jon :7/nn.iuersa.ire l 
.6'oue, .YJ(oD1, ZJac{ anc/Jlenn_y 


page 12 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, August 30, 1994 
Notre Dame vs. Northwestern Saturday, September 3rd 
Round trip bus transportation to Soldier Field 
(Buses leave at 3:00 PM from Alumni/Senior Club )1 
Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info. Desk : 
I I I I 

Game tickets available at the I 
I LaFortune Info. Desk with Student I.D. 
I I 1 Sponsored by Student Activities I 


By ED McCULLOUGH 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 

Fidel Castro may not be over­ly troubled by the thousands of Cubans fleeing this communist Caribbean island in anything that floats. But he should worry about those who stay behind who have lost faith in the sys­tem. 
In the capital, state stores of every kind are pilfered and their wares sold door-to-door at night. 
In the countryside, state rice fields at the end of summer lie untilled. Sugar planting is months behind schedule, mean­ing the vital harvest of the nation's biggest cash crop almost certainly won't begin in January. 
What farmers do grow and raise, they withhold from state stores, which pay very little. They hold up live chickens, pineapples and strings of garlic 
U.N. playing big role in Zaire-Rwanda talks 
BY DILIP GANGULY 
Associated Press 
GOMA, Zaire 

Zaire and Rwanda's Tutsi-led government held U.N.-spon­sored talks Monday to find ways to persuade more than 1 million Hutu refugees to return to Rwanda. 
Filippo Grandi of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees met with Zairian offi­cials and the Rwandan Patriotic Front, but the meeting ended without a resolution. They are to resume talks Tuesday. 
The success of the talks, how­ever, depends on support from Rwanda's former Hutu-led gov­ernment, which was over­thrown in July by the Tutsis. Exiled Hutu leaders in Zaire say they will ask refugees to return only after the Tutsis agree to share power and U.N. peacekeepers ensure the refugees' safety. 
Hutu zealots, meanwhile, kept up a campaign of intimida­tion in the teeming refugee camps just over the border in Zaire, killing another Hutu refugee who advocated return­ing to Rwanda. 

Fleeing refugees create Cuban cash crunch 
for sale to passing motorists on roads leading out of the capital Havana. 
For Yankee dollars, not Cuban pesos. 
Castro, who took power in a revolution in 1959, is neither unaware nor happy about such developments. 
After noting sugar production plunged to 4 million tons this year from 7 million as recently as 1992, he asked rhetorically at the National Assembly on Aug. 3: 
"Are we ourselves going to destroy the Revolution? Or are we going to create the condi­tions that make it possible to save it?" 
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, the economic for­tunes of this fertile, tropical island of 11 million have gone in one direction: down. And fast. 
Two years ago, you'd see as many cars as bicycles on the streets in this capital of faded 
It was the latest killing in a campaign by those trying to undermine efforts to return 840,000 refugees who have overwhelmed the Goma area. 
"One Hutu got up and started suggesting that people should go back home to Rwanda, a crowd gathered, they started accusing him of being a spy," 
U.N. spokesman Ray Wilkinson told reporters Monday. 
Wilkinson said the man, whose name was not immedi­ately available, was beaten and stoned to death Saturday in what he described as a "politi­cal execution." The killing took place in Kitaku camp, near Magunga. 
In other clashes, two men and a woman were killed in two separate incidents in the Magunga camp, about 13 miles west of Goma. The camp hous­es 220,000 Hutu refugees. 
Wilkinson said the deaths occurred in fights between refugees and Hutu bandits try­ing to steal plastic sheeting supplied by the United Nations. "As rain approaches, plastic sheeting is becoming a valuable commodity," he said. 
elegance. Now, gas is too expensive and spare parts, un­available. Brightly lit streets at night also are a thing of the past. Now, there are blackouts to conserve scarce fuel oil. 
In the countryside, thousands of tractors and heavy transport vehicles are idled, parked in lots and rusting in the salty sea air and hot sun. 
Castro is trying to improve the economy by selling state hotels to Spanish investors, and developing mineral resources with Canadian and European companies. But agriculture ­tobacco and coffee as well as sugar -still is key. 
'No matter how much tourism grows ... it's not enough," Castro told the Assembly. 
State-controlled media make constant requests for Cubans to show the courage, discipline and initiative that allegedly once made this island 90 miles south of Florida a workers par­adise. The response has been 
By FRANK BAJAK 
Associated Press 
WUENSDORF, Germany 

Until the fall of the Berlin Wall, the Wuensdorf base served as the command center for Europe's largest occupation force. It was a thriving city of 70,000, a plum posting for Russian officers. 
Now it's such a sad sight that even Russian President Boris Yeltsin plans to avoid it. 
Yeltsin arrives Tuesday night 

Action! 
underwhelming. 
"The only work here is farm­ing and that doesn't interest me," said Pedro Hernandez, 18. "My friends don't want to work in agriculture. We go to the river and fish, and sell what we catch. It's less work .... I'm get­ting out of here as quick as I can." 
Gerardo Gonzalez, acting director of the state think tank America Studies Center, said, "This generation is extremely demanding.... Now it's not enough to have a pair of pants and a shirt, or even two." 
The decay cuts both ways. Cubans circumvent the state system with the government's apparent acquiescence. The government, meanwhile, has drastically reduced its commit­ments to Cubans. 
Devaluation has shrunk salaries to the equivalent of several dollars a month. Taxi drivers, waiters and others working in the tourism industry 
on a state visit to deactivate the Russian army's West Group. He will preside Wednesday as departing Russian troops bid a final ceremonial farewell in Berlin, an hour away. 
The troops' final days are being marked with much fan­fare and mutual expressions of friendship as the Russians hand over the last of some 130 bases and other property comprising 2 percent of former East Germany. 
But try as politicians might to pocket many times the pay of a surgeon, university professor or even a government minister. 
Gas rations have been cut six­fold to a scant 2.5 gallons a month. Cubans receive a single roll of bread per day at state bakeries. 
Sugar, rice, coffee and other staples have been cut back; meat, toothpaste, soap and cooking oil often aren't avail­able at all. 
Apart from the refugees, the other major signal that Cubans are restive was the sponta­neous demonstration and van­dalism by several thousand people in downtown Havana last Aug. 5. 
Coverage by state TV of Castro's appearance to calm the mob couldn't avoid airing shouts of "Abajo Comunismo!" -Down with Communism! Last week, when Castro addressed the nation about the refugee crisis, many Cubans admitted they turned off their sets. 

Cold War remnants still stink 
put a happy face on the pullout, the dismantling of this huge force -540,000 soldiers and civilians prior to 1989 -and has been painful and demoral­izing. 
Many Russians fear returning to a poverty-stricken homeland. 
"The future looks very dark," said Sgt. Maj. Valentin Russakov, emcee of the West Group's beloved song and dance ensemble, which is being dissolved. 
He is leaving the military after a 30-year career. 

DIRECT FROM MANUFACTURER 
All prices include convertible frame and mat. 
LAFREE ENTERPRISES 259-6201 
loft Kits ................................$78.95 
4x4 Bookshelves...................$18.95 
~--------------------------------------~ 





--------~-----------. 
Tuesday, August 30, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

'· ­

,.-.--~~-,· .. '· 
~-

j ·. '/? ·:. _: ..; ' ._.:­
~--­~<-, 
·. __------~---·<:
\_, 

.· . . .. ' 
" 

).,;""•*17'• --••--~---"'w ' ..... "' •r:· ~..."-':, l.,.. I _r 8,4'*;,, ...~---:
-' 

. -' . ..
' ' 
Welcotne Back StudentS!· ·~.·. 
• ' ' . . ' .. ' •: .: . : '. ; -~'-y:}~~l('·'~------~'=<' _,' . ·:._ ,.·· ·::. ·:·· .· <... :• ·, :~ 
Free "GEAR" Cap with Purchase·6f GEAR s"*eatsbiri'.·., ' 
or GEAR_Jacket! ---,.:.:·--_--••··-_-_-'-~.: ­
8/26 Friday · • ,9am..7pm · ·. · ·. 


· 8/27 Saturday · •· ·· 9am~7pin~ . .<, . ·. ·...····.··.•···•···· 8/29 Monday •.. · • ..· 9a1ll:-6pm;·r ·;>~ ·: · , · >· 8/30 Tuesday· ·· • 9am26pm:. · ~~· · ' 
..... 8/31 . Wednesday • 9am,.z§P1Il·, : · . < 
. . ~ -~ .=:·.·.• -:·.~. .:·' . '· "•; /' ~· •. 
· ·· · ::.,rf-<::::>:·-.: · ; · . ~ ~~~ 


·' '~ . 
,_. ' t:-·' 


',> 
·--~ 
. ;..... · . ;. ·. '
-~ 

,{·., "··.. ;' ··,.; '' ·:: ' '': ~ ' .' 
. . ­
~ 

•. { .· .. · . .. 
"<,'.'v •.' 
.,····.·.;,• I "· 

--Ask for it by name·. · ,·_·. :. 
··· The Hatntnes~·: . ·· .. ~, NOTRE DAME BOOKSI0BE>
> ' • ~-•• •.. /. •• ~ • • • •• • • '-}~;. .< .: "'··~·-· .. ,., '·· ·, /~··;>,.·-:·:>··.. >.~··, .~..... :~,..;~~--·~·-\"#,. ',.••.. :: ... ·­.. --,, . ' i ,·· .. -.~ . ~· .. .. . ._· ' . \ . '' . . 
~ . . ' . ( 
ccon the campus". . . ... .':
i ,'. 

~ . :; . ,...;, ~ ' ' .. . ~ .r:. > •• .• 
'» . .I .., -; 
•. -'t ..,.,_ -: 

VIEWPOINT 

page 14 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fl}' Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universil}' of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is repotted as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoril}' of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muni!}' and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 6314542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 6314541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 6314543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 6314540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
• Over the Dome 
Surviving the Notre Dame family 
For the umpteen-hundredth time: Welcome to the University of Notre Dame. 
For the next four years the people around you are going to introduce you to this university and try to tell you the best way to survive four years at the Catholics' Harvard. 
As a recent graduate of Notre Dame, I would like to add my two cents to the discussion and give you some advice that Father Malloy and Coach Holtz might not have given you in their speeches. 
Since most of you either went to a Catholic school or were raised in a very Christian faith, you should be familiar with the Ten Commandments. Therefore, my advice to you today on how to survive the Notre Dame experi­ence will take the form of Ten Tips. Can I have a drum roll, please ... 
I. Get to know someone in South Bend who isn't a part of the Notre Dame Family, and get to know the town in which you now Jive. This university is one of the biggest employers in Northern Indiana, and hence has a big impact on this community. It would be tragic for you to live in Michiana for four years and not even be able to tell ev­eryone back home what makes it unique aroma). 
II. Do not try to be a drinking champi­on. The ability to down 60 shots of beer in an hour may impress a few, but it will disgust the rest. Besides, heavy drinking can be dangerous for your body, your self-respect and your legal status. St. Joseph County cops don't take drunk­ards lightly, and neither do rectors. 
Paul Pearson 


IDEAS AND IDEALS 
III. Take a road trip sometime, even if it's just to explore Chicago for a day. The purpose of an education is to expose the mind to new experiences and new data, and taking yourself to a new place once in awhile can do just that. One of my best friends tells me that one of his best experiences at Notre Dame was taking a six-hour drive to St. Louis. Call never lets life become routine. You shouldn't either. 
IV. 
Try to read something that isn't a requirement for one of your classes. Even if it's just a magazine that you read for 15 minutes a week, it can be a welcome break from inorganic chem­istry or the history of pre-World War I Europe. (Plus, it will give you an excuse to read this column and make me happy.) 

V. 
Listen to the people around you. A Greek philosopher once said that we were given two ears, but one tongue, so that we may hear twice as much as we say. This campus is not nearly as homogenous as it may seem to be at first, and listening to the people around you will introduce you to ideas you may not have considered before. Incidentally, it's also an excellent way to make friends. 


VI. Don't be afraid to act silly. If you hear music down the hall and you feel like dancing for a moment, don't let someone make you feel bad about it. Moments like this keep life from becom­ing tedious and dull. 
VII. Don't live in the library. Sure, grades are important, and you are here to get an education from one of the finest faculties on Earth. However, there are many important lessons that are not taught in books, lectures or lab experi­ments. Cutting them out of your life would Le just as stupid as cutting class­es. 
VIII. Get involved. Christianity is not a spectator sport, and there are plenty of people around you who could use a helping hand. The Center for Social Concerns has plenty of ways to make a difference in the community around you, from feeding the homeless to being a friend for someone who's lonely. 
IX. 
Take NOTHING that you are told at face value. There are plenty of people out there who have a good reason (self­preservation, reputation or just bore­dom) to lie to you. Ask a lot of questions, especially to those who have power over you. It is the only way to keep them semi-honest. 

X. 
Always remember that someone out there loves you. That fact alone can get you through all-night study sessions, final exams that seem to last forever and any other crisis you may face during your Notre Dame experience. 


See you at the Michigan pep rally-I hope. 
• Lettter tn the Editor 
O'Hara bids welcome to new and old 
Dear Notre Dame Students: 
I would like to extend to you a warm 
welcome on behalf of all of us who 
work in the Division of Student 
Affairs-the Offices of Residence Life, 
Security, Student Re~iuenq~~. AlcohQ\, 1 
and Drug Education, Student Activities, 
International Student Affairs, 
Multicultural Student Affairs, 
Counseling Center, Career and 
Placement, Health Services, Campus 
Ministry and Hall Staffs. Although we 
provide a variety of services, we share 
a common desire to do everything we 
can to help facilitate your intellectual, 
spiritual and personal growth in your 
lives outside the classroom. 
We welcome back the sophomores, 
juniors and seniors, as well as the 
returning graduate and professional 
students. We extend a special welcome 
to our new students-the freshmen, 
transfer and new graduate and profes­
sional students. You join a proud com­
munity with a rich tradition that dates 
back more than one hundred and fifty 
years to the vision of our founder, 
Father Edward Sorin. We hope that all 
of you-both those who are new and 
those who are returning-will be able 
to achieve the academic, spiritual and 
personal goals you set for yourselves 
this year. 
I hope that I will have the opportunity 
to come to know as many of you as pos­
sible in the months ahead. Until I am 
able to greet you in person, please 
know that you have my very best wish­
es for a year filled with all God's good 
blessings. 
PROFESSOR PATRICIA O'HARA 
Vice President for Student Affairs 



Paul Pearson is a 1993 graduate of Notre Dame and a former news writer for The Observer. He currently works as a writer/editor for a tri-lingual weekly newspaper in Tampa, Florida. 
''you can do anything, But don't step on my blue suede shoes." 
-Carl Perkins Blue Suede Shoes, 1956 
ACC2NT 
Tuesday, August 30, 1994 page 15 
• Medical minute 
What to eat when you don't eat meat 
A guide for the collegiate vegetarian 
By RYAN GRABOW 
N.R.E.M.T. 
Now that we're all back from summer break, it's time once again to do battle against the beer bellies, thick thighs, and big butts, we all work so hard to lose during the summer months. In addition to daily ex­ercise, many of us decided to try our hand at being vegetari­ans to help lose weight and keep it off. 
Unfortunately, many of those who do turn to a vegetarian diet don't realize the difficulties and dangers they may encounter due to their dietary change. Being a healthy vege­tarian involves much more than simply eating salads for break­fast, lunch, and dinner. 
Depending on an individual's preference, there are three ba­sic types of vegetarian diets: 1 ) The vegan diet, which elimi­nates meat and all animal by products such as milk, milk products. and eggs 2) The lac­tovagetariaf1"tl'fet:;1Which in­cludes milk and milk products in addition to plant foods, and 
3) The lacto-ovovegetarian diet, which includes milk, milk prod­ucts, and eggs as well as plant foods. Instead of classifying themselves into one of these groups, many people are semi­vegetarians, occasionally eating fish and poultry but generally avoiding red meat. 
If you do decide to follow one of these vegetarian diets, there are a few guidelines you must follow: 
1) Make sure you get com­plete Protein in your diet. Animal proteins are complete and contain all the amino acids your body needs, while plant proteins are incomplete pro­teins, usually missing one or more essential amino acids needed to synthesize and utilize protein. 
In order to overcome this problem you must eat a combi­
nation of plant protein foods or animal products containing your meals. complementary proteins, that together, supply you with all 2) Guard against iron defi­the essential amino acids you ciency. For those of you who need to be healthy. eat few or no animal products, 
you must be especially careful 
Some tasty examples include: to get enough iron in your diet, beans and rice, lentils and rice, which helps transport oxygen beans and corn tortillas. peanut in your body and is involved in butter on whole-wheat bread, enzyme activity related to ener­peanut butter on sesame bread gy use. or crackers, corn and lima The body absorbs iron from beans, cereal with milk, maca­meat and other animal prod­roni and cheese, cheese sand­ucts much more efficiently than wich, tofu and vegetables with it does iron from plant sources rice, pasta and tomato sauce such as dark green leafy veg­with Parmesan cheese, cheese­etables or fortified breads and stuffed pasta (ravioli or tortelli­cereals. In order to increase the ni), baked potato with yogurt, amount of iron your body ab­potato and egg salad, split-pea sorbs from a plant source, eat a soup with whole-grain crack­food containing vitamin C at the ers, and rice pudding. same meal, such as citrus 
These are only a sampling of fruits, strawberries, broccoli, the combinations that can be brussel sprouts, and bell pep­created to insure you are re­pers. ceiving "complete protein" in For female vegetarians, espe­
cially those who are athletes or break.) 

Living healthy and eating healthy are goals all of us should have in our lives. Those of you here at Notre Dame who have chosen to follow a vegetarian diet are clearly try­ing to achieve these goals by eliminating meat and animal products from your diets. 
In doing so, please also remember the guidelines you must follow in order to ensure the vegetarian diet you choose is indeed a safe and healthy one. 
If you are considering becoming a vegetarian, feel your diet is not complete, or think you may need vitamin or mineral supplements in you diet, please consult your doctor or the Food Services Nutrition Office (1-8339), to get more information about following a healthy vegetarian diet. Good luck and stay healthy. 
exercise intensely, it is extremely important to con­sume enough iron in their diets in order to prevent anemia. 
3) Guard against calcium de­ficiency. To make up for the lack of milk products in their diets, vegans should eat plenty of calcium-rich vegetables (dark green leafy vegetables), calcium-fortified foods, or take calcium supplements, to main­tain a sufficient level of this mineral which plays an integral role in bone and teeth forma­tion as well as muscle contrac­tion and blood clotting. 
Women who exercise exces­sively and get insufficient calci­um in their diets are especially at risk for developing osteo­porosis (a disease which decreases the bone mass of ver­tebrae, hips, and wrists making them more fragile and easy to 
Don't put off until tomorrow 
By PATTI CARSON Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
When you were handed all of those "health and wellness" pamphlets at the beginning of the year they forgot something. Everyone failed to inform you about the most dangerous and co-ntagious illness on cam­pus-the procrastination syn­drome. 
To tarry, to wait, to post­pone. Define procrastina­tion any way you like it because it effects its victims in various ways. 
Saint Mary's sophomore Katie Trumper says, "By the time I get out of class for the day, take a quick nap, eat dinner, exercise and talk to some friends, it is already late." 
Saint Mary's sophomore Kathleen Michaels agrees that it is easy to procrasti­nate and get a late start especially when it comes to homework. 
"Sometimes I am even tempted to clean my room and even other peoples' rooms before starting my work," Michaels said. 
Some symptoms of the procrastination syndrome include: 
•Going 
to the library to study with a group of friends for an hour then leaving for a two hour study/pizza break. 

•
Pausing in the middle of a homework assignment to write a friend you haven't seen since junior high school. 

•
Hanging up loose articles of clothing and dusting your room before starting your English paper. 

•Spending 
less time study­ing for a test than you do attempting to find out how much of your grade this test is worth. 

•Saying 
"Wake me up in ten minutes," regularly to your study group during study sessions. 

•Becoming 
a regular 2 


a.m. shopper at Meijer's. 
•Having long, late night discussions with friends(during study time, of course) about topics which have no relevance to your studies at all. 
Alas, there is no treat­
ment or medication for this 
illness. Many students, 
however, procrastinate less 
after receiving anything less 
than a grade of "C" on their 
report card. 
When Alumni Hall sopho­
more Jesse Thompson was 
asked to share his advice on 
how to overcome the 
procrastination syndrome, 
he responded, "Can I get 
back to you on that one?" 
-
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, August 30, 1994 
• ND BASEBALL 
Murphy 
continued from page 28 
flew to Notre Dame and con­vinced the former athletic director that he was the only man for the job. 
"I want people to know that it wasn't fake. The hitchhiking stories, my love for Notre Dame, they are real," Murphy said. "You never leave Notre Dame. It is stamped on your forehead for the rest of your life." 
He left a stamp on Notre Dame, compiling a 318-116-1 record with the Irish guiding them to four NCAA tournament appearances, the first coming in only his second season-the school's first bid since 1970. 
The job offer was no surprise. Two years earlier, the University of Miami offered Murphy its coaching job after legendary coach Ron Fraser stepped down. But Murphy didn't feel right with the situa­tion or to leave Notre Dame when he was on the verge of moving the program a giant step ahead. 
Last spring, Notre Dame un­veiled Eck Stadium. It was no secret that Murphy lobbied for the new facility. And that he considered it a must to put the Irish program on top. 
"It's like leaving home. In my heart, I want to stay. But with the goals I have in life, it was just something I had to do." 
And now he has to replace the legendary Jim Brock, the longtime Sun Devil coach who died of cancer in June. 
"I embrace the Jim Brock story. His memory will live on. I don't attempt to fill his shoes," Murphy said. "I just want to put my head down and begin my innocent climb the same way I did at Notre Dame. I'll do my job, work hard and hopefully turn around in 10 years and see what has been accom­plished. I'm not looking at it as if I'm following a legend." 
Murphy believed that limited scholarships kept Notre Dame's program from reaching the 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
It wasn't the greatest day of Paul Mainieri's life, in fact, it wasn't even tops that week. 
Notre Dame's new baseball coach got the gift of a new son three days before athletic director Dick Rosenthal announced Mainieri's hiring on 
gust 25. It was he and his wife Karen Ann's fourth child, but first in eight years and an arrival which overshadowed his new job. 
"This is one of the greatest days of my life, but not the greatest," Mainieri said. 
Notre Dame is hoping it is a pretty fine day for its baseball program. The Irish lured Mainieri away from the Air Force Academy where he aver­aged 26 wins per year after taking over a Falcon's program which had averaged only 15 per season in the six year's before his arrival. His 1993 squad led the nation with a .360 team batting average. 
"Everyone I talked to had Paul high up on their list of the best young coaches in the country," Rosenthal said. 
It also helped that Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda gave Mainieri a ringing endorse­ment. Lasorda has been a fami­ly friend of Mainieri's for years. "He practically jumped through the telephone wires for 45 min­utes," said Rosenthal of his con­versation with Lasorda. "He had nothing but praise for Paul's ability as a coach." 
That sort of praise convinced Notre Dame to bring Mainieri out for a visit. He got a tour of 

s 

move into the Big East 
Conference would only hurt it 
further. 
There were many reasons for Murphy to leave but also sev­eral points for staying in South Bend. It was a decision he came to after talking with Rosenthal and executive vice president Father E. William Beauchamp, and hearing the same response, "Do what's best for you." 
That was chasing the man's dream. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join the Observer staffl ) 631-7471 
Mainrieri the man for Irish baseball 
The Observer/Jake New Notre Dame baseball coach Paul Mainieri, joined by Irish athletic director Dick Rosenthal, meets press. Mainieri, head coach of the Air Force Academy for the past six years, succeeds Pat Murphy. 
the campus, and Eck Stadium and only hours after landing in South Bend, was at a press con­ference to announce his hiring. 
"There are very few jobs in the country that I would consider worth leaving the Air Force Academy," Mainieri said. 
One was Notre Dame, which like Murphy was always held in high regard in the Mainieri family. 
"My mother recently dug out an essay I wrote in the third grade," Mainieri said. "I was the quarterback for Notre Dame and scored the winning touchdown against Michigan State. It was always a dream of mine to quarterback Notre Dame, but Notre Dame was never interested in a 5-foot-7, 140-pound quarterback." 
The Irish were interested in his coaching skills which began at Columbus High School in Miami, after playing stints at LSU, the University of New Orleans and two years in the Chicago White Sox Class A affil­iate. 
He coaches six years a St Thomas (Fla.) College, ing 30 wins per season a earning a top 10 NCAA u•···"·'u" II ranking each year during stint. 
"We will play aggresive base ball, we'll swing at 3-0 pitches and we'll try and hit the b out of the park," Mainieri said. 
"I hope I can continue to form on a level that Pat Mu established. I really believe best days for Notre Dame ball are in front of us. 

Drugs rock Olympic world' 
By STEPHEN WILSON 
Associated Press 
PARIS The 1OOth anniversary of the modern Olympic movement is being overshadowed by the scourge of the modern sports world: drug scandals. As more than 3,000 officials from around the globe began discussions Tuesday at the Centennial Olympic Congress, several doping cases were com­manding attention: 
-The International Olympic Committee medical chief con­firmed that documents detailing several positive drug tests at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics were destroyed before they 
· could be acted upon. 
-Horace Dove-Edwin, the Sierra Leone sprinter who fin­ished a surprising second behind Linford Christie in the 100 meters at the Common­wealth Games in Canada, tested positive for steroids and was stripped of his silver medal. He was the third athlete to test positive at the Games, while two English athletes were sent home for failing drug tests at earlier meets. 
-The French cycling federa­tion accused four-time Tour de France winner Miguel Indurain of taking a banned substance, but the IOC and the interna­tional cycling federation ab­solved him of any wrongdoing. 
-British diver Tony Ali was suspended for six months by the international swimming federation for refusing to take a random drug test. 
The doping problem was not mentioned at Monday night's opening ceremony at the Bercy sports arena, where French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur declared that France intends to mount a bid to host the Summer Olympics in the year 2004. 
But doping will be one of the many issues addressed during the four-day congress, where the four main themes are: The Olympic movement's contri­bution to modern society; the contemporary athlete; sport in its social context; and sport and the mass media. 
The IOC session following the Congress is expected to adopt a new medical code, which is de­signed to clarify and stan­dardize all rules related to the anti-doping fight. 
The IOC brokered an agree­ment earlier this year with international federations to unify all doping regulations and sanctions. However, the soccer, cycling and tennis federations still have not fully complied. 
The case of the missing drug tests from the 1984 Los Angeles Games was addressed for the first time Monday by the man who was and still is in charge of the IOC's medical commission, Prince Alexandre de Merode. 
De Merode confirmed that five, or possibly six, positive tests from the final days of the Games were reported to him the day after the closing cere­mony. He denied a BBC televi­sion report that there were nine positive tests. 
De Merode said when he went to his offices at the Biltmore Hotel to examine the tests, he found that everything had dis­appeared and the rooms had been converted back into a hotel sute. 
De Merode said the hotel explained that all Olympic offices were closed as soon as the Games ended because the privately-funded organizing committee was not paying for rooms beyond the closing date. 
"I called the organizing com­mittee and was told, 'You must understand. You are in the United States. The Games are finished, everything is fin­ished,"' de Merode said. 
The next morning, de Merode went to the organizing commit­tee headquarters to find out what happened. He said he was first told by a committee offi­cial, Tony Daly, that the drug test documents were being flown to IOC headquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland. 
After de Merode said he would get on the next plane to Lausanne to study the tests, Daly changed his story. 
"I must tell the truth," de Merode quoted him as saying. "Everything was destroyed in the paper shredder. We are sorry, but we can't produce anything from your documents. I apologize but we can not do anything." 
De Merode said he considered the episode an honest mistake. 
"I don't believe it was inten­tional because it's certainly not in their interest," he said. "I believe it was an accident. It's an unfortunate story, but it was not done deliberately." 


~----~~----------~----------­
~-------­
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Galloway leads the way, Buckeyes overpower Bulldogs in Pigskin Classic 

Aid. 
The UnivcrsiiT Pro&J:am From Standard Federal Bank 
By BETH HARRIS 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. Joey Galloway caught a record 67­
yard touch­down pass and scored on a showy r e v e r s e Monday night as No. 20 Ohio State 


beat Fresno John Cooper State 34-10 in the Pigskin Classic. 
It was college football's sec­ond rout in as many days. Fourth-ranked Nebraska beat No. 24 West Virginia 31-0 Sun­day in the Kickoff Classic, the first game of the season. 
Galloway, a wide receiver who is one of four returning starters on offense, starred in the second half after teammate for Raymont Harris, who grad­uated as Ohio State's leading rusher last season with 1,344 yards and 12 touchdowns. 
George, a 230-pound junior tailback, finished with 90 yards on 24 carries and the two touchdowns. He carried seven straight times on the Buckeyes' opening drive, culminating in a 1-yard plunge over the middle for his first touchdown. 
The Buckeyes, 10-1-1 last season with a victory over Brigham Young in the Holiday Bowl. scored on three of their first four possessions. 
Tim Patillo intercepted Adrian Claiborne's pass at the Ohio State 33 and 11 seconds later, Bobby Hoying connected with Galloway for the record 6 7­yard scoring pass for a 14-0 lead with 2:03 remaining in the first quarter. 
On Ohio State's previous pos­session, Scott Terna set a game record with a 54-yard punt. 
Hoying was 10-for-16 for 194 
yards and the long touchdown. 
Fresno State managed just 
three plays on its next pos­
session before Jon Williams to another 1-yard charge up the middle and a 21-0 lead. Josh Jackson's 24-yard field goal increased Ohio State's lead to 24-7 in the opening minutes of the third quarter. 
Galloway showed ofT his run­ning ability on his second TD. He started left, then reversed his field around the right end for an 8-yard score and a 31-10 lead at 12:00 in the third. Jackson added a 33-yard field goal to make it 34-10 with 6:17 to play. 
Fresno State, co-champion of the Western Athletic Conference last season, was no match for the Buckeyes in its first game against a Big Ten Conference opponent. 
The Bulldogs, 8-4 last season, had to replace quarterback Trent Dilfer, a first-round draft pick of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Claiborne, a red­shirt sophomore, completed a 4-yard pass to Michael Pittman for Fresno State's only TD at 
5:49 of the second quarter. 
Claiborne finished 12-for-22 for 139 yards. Pittsman had 73 yards on 25 carries. 
cial 
fees, through more than 200 Standard Federal Cash Machine AIMs and Standard Federal's TeleBanking services. You can also use your card at thousands of CIRRUS~ NetworkOne~ MoneyMover* and Magicline" AIM machines.' 
Call or visit Standard Federal Bank today for more information about how you can enjoy the financial aid of the University Program. 
•Ask for dm1ls t Thert is no fee for aVISA cash ad\'ance Ho'tl.'e\'er, there IS a modest fet for oilier rrmsacuons complt:ttd ~ an ATM that is 110( owned and opmted by S!andalll Fok!il 
Eddie George dominated the game's opening 30 minutes with two 1-yard TD runs. 
George was impressive in his first game as the replacement was forced to punt from the Ohio State 42. 
George took over the ball, running on seven of Ohio State's next nine plays en route 
Get a no-annual-fee VISA" Classic Card and alow-cost Regular Checking Account including no per-check fees (and we even buy back your old checks*) with the University Program from Standard Federal. 
Use this financial aid to buy books, supplies, trips home and other essentials. Then obtain a Personalldentification Number (PIN) for your University Program VISA Card. It will help you access your account, without transaction 
Helping You Along The Way.'" 
Standard Federal Bank  
Savings/Financial Services  
Member '(S)FDIC ::E'ND'ER ©1994 Standard Federal Bank 1404 E. Ireland in front of Scottsdale Mall 2191291-8483  17330 State Rd. 23 at Douglas Rd. 219/277-0300  52710 U.S. 31 Nonh across from Nonh Village Mall 219/277-3922  •216 W Washington 2191234-7171  


Observer File Photo Former Notre Dame running back Rodney Culver was one of the many who did not survive the latest rounds of NFL cuts. 
camp while the Giants were That was true from the Dallas playing an exhibition game in Cowboys at the top to the Berlin. Finally, a hip injury Cincinnati Bengals at the bot­

Now Open A New Section Of ENGL 101: BEGINNING IRISH 
An Introduction to the Modem Irish Language DART into English 101:02 MWF 12:15-.1:05 Call No. 4105 
The Observer 
is now hiring 
Circulation Drivers 
This is a paid position which requires drivers to deliver papers between 11 ~2. Ifyou are interested in 
doing this any weekday please call Joe Riley at 631-5313 
ley. 
The Bengals also claimed cor­nerback Roger Jones, waived Monday by Tampa Bay, and offensive tackle Matt Joyce, released by Dallas. · 
Jones, 25, was a nickel back for the Buccaneers the past three years. Joyce, 22, was a rookie free agent. 
The Bengals come into the season with a vastly different team than a year ago. Seven­teen players from that 3-13 team have been released dur­ing the preseason. 
Coach Art Shell is hoping that history repeats itself. Defensive back Donald Frank, 
who returned an interception 102 yards for a touchdown against the Raiders last season, signed with them. 
"You can never have enough good corners," Shell said of Frank. "And, he's a guy who can run." 
Frank, 28, played four sea­sons with San Diego and inter­cepted 10 passes. He was trad­ed by the Chargers to the Cleveland Browns in March for a 1995 sixth-round draft pick, but was cut. 
Frank's 102-yard interception return helped the Chargers to a 30-23 victory over the Raiders last season. He practiced Mon­day and will be available for the season opener next Monday 
T tle 0 tJserver 
is looking for 
Sports Writers 
If interested in writing sports stories for The Observer, please call George Dohrmann at 631­4543. 


night against San Francisco at Candlestick Park. 
Less than a week before open­ing the regular season, Red­skins coach Norv Turner is still undecided on a starting quar­terback. 
He is wavering over whether to throw Heath Shuler -the third overall pick in this year's draft -against Seattle, or use veteran John Friesz. If Turner can't come to a final decision, he might take the easy way out -play them both. 
"I would anticipate no matter who we start both guys will play," Turner said. "To try to speculate what we do after that is hard to do because we don't know what's going to happen in the Seattle game. I'm not saying we're going to rotate every play, every quarter or every series. I'm saying I could see that happening. I'm not backing down on what I said. It. might not happen, but it could hap­pen." 
Indianapolis, which waived running back Rodney Culver on Sunday, re-signed running back Ed Toner, who played in all 16 games last year, mostly on spe­cial teams. 


849Wll'll'8rB:I ~'IWibdDIS to111' MIIDwS II'. The ultimate too/for graph­ics and presentations! 

SPECIAL LIMITED-TIME OFFER: WordPerfect 6.0 for Wmdows, Quattro Pro 5.0 for Wmdows, and Random House Webster's Electronic Dictionary and Thesaurus, College Edition. 

899 MldiiDSilEsS8n1lals WPMacSllllenl 3.0, electronic dictionary. golf game, and more! 


See your local campus reseller for more information.
899 WUIIII'ftlcl B.D • 
:!=eljU/DOS ~WordPerfect
application ever! 
Novell Applications Group 

Word~rf«l 11a registered trademark of Novell. Int. All other brand or product namas are reotstared trademarks Ollhelr respectiVS companies. C 1994 Novell, Inc. 
' ' -~
....... 



Tuesday, August 30, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
Federal mediators to step in lvanisevic upset 
By RONALD BLUM nine more games Monday, rais­telephone from Washington. Associated Press ing the total to 232. "But we've haven't made up "So far as I know, there isn't our mind." 
in first round 
suited for the Open's hard courts. Yet, he hates this sur­face and seems unable to mas­ter it. 
"Every year, I come hoping that I am going to play good, but it only hopes," he said. 
Asked if he his hip injury affected him, Ivanisevic replied dryly: 
"Maybe brain injury." 
He didn't cop any excuses. It wasn't New York or the fans or the jets buzzing overhead. 
"It is a problem with me," he said. "I am putting too much pressure on myself that I can­not play, that I am too scared or I stay back, I never come in. 
.. ­
That is what happened today. ... "Maybe I should try to play some women's tournaments next year. Maybe I win a couple of rounds, but something will happen." 
Ivanisevic's loss created even more uncertainty in the men's draw. No. 1 Pete Sampras is questionable to re­peat as champion after being sidelined more than a month with tendinitis in his ankle. 
Zoecke has little chance of 
winning the Open, but he was 
grateful for the gift Ivanisevic 
gave him. 
"He gave me a lot of points," 
Zoecke said. "He hits a winner 
or he misses the ball. I mean, 
that is his game sometimes. I 
thought after two sets to love 
he was a little disappointed." 
No. 6 Michael Chang, a seri­
ous threat to win it, started off 
with an impressive 6-4, 6-2. 6-2 
victory over Andrei Cherkasov. 
Unseeded Andre Agassi also 
looked sharp in beating Robert 
Eriksson 6-3, 6-2, 6-0, as did 
Wayne Ferreira in a 7-5, 6-2, 
6-2 victory over Wade McGuire. 
Chang reeled off 15 aces to 
none for his Russian opponent 
in winning in just under two 
hours. 

"I've definitely tried to im­
prove my serve the last few 
years," Chang said. "The game 
has quickened. It's becoming a 
lot easier for me to hold serve." 
In women's matches, No. 2 
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario beat 
Linda Ferrando 7-5, 6-1, No. 3 
Conchita Martinez beat 
Veronika Martinek 6-1, 6-0, No. 
4 Mary Pierce beat Andrea 
Temesvari 6-3, 6-2 and Gigi 
Fernandez beat No. 12 Sabine 
Hack 6-2, 2-6, 7-6 (7-3). 
Pierce, a French Open final­
ist in June, looked a lot like the 
lanky. blond Temesvari from 
afar. Up close, Pierce showed 
the determination that lets her 
fmish off a match. 
The fourth-seeded Pierce, 
struggled during the 69-minute 
match to hold onto the early 
leads she secured in both sets. 
In the frrst set she was ahead 
4-t> and in the second set she 
was up 3-0. Pierce had diffi­
culty when Temesvari took 
pace off her shots, and made 
27 unforced errors. 
"I made quite a bit of stupid 
errors, had some easy shots 
and just overhit it and tried to 
go for too much," Pierce said. 
Light rain delayed the start 
of the Open by two hours. 
Sanchez Vicario and Ferrando 
then took the stadium court, 
and Ivanisevic and Zoecke the 
grandstand court. 
• • • • • • • # • • • • • • • • • • • ~ • • • • 
Subscribe and enjoy the convenience of having the Chicago Tribune delivered to your residence every day! Since 1847, the Chicago Tribune has been the original information superhighway, providing its readers random access to everything: 
• 
Comprehensive coverage of national and international news. 

• 
Colorful coverage of college and pro sports with more slats, more scores and the best columnists. 

• 
Popular features on the latest in music, movies, art and trends. 

• 
Expert business and financial reporting for successful career planning. 

• 
Insights from award-winning columnists: Mike Royko, Ann Landers, Dear Abby and Bob Greene. 

• 
Amusing comic adventures of Calvin and Hobbes, Doonesbury and Cathy! 


RULES: 
1. 
ENTRY: To enter, correctly complete and return the official entry form (or hand drawn facsim•le. see rule 2) appearing in the your college newspaper. Subscription phone orders will automatically be entered Into the drawtng. No contest entries will be accepted by phone wilhol.lt subscription order. Must be 17 years-old to enter. Proof ot age may be requested. 

2. 
NO PURCHASE NECESSARY: You may also enter by writing all information requested on a postcard or envelope and maJiing it to the address on the official entry lonn. One entry per envek)pe, please. Mecharncally reproduced efltries will be disqualified. Mailed efltnes must be received by the Chicago Tribune by October tS, 1~. The Chicago Tribune wilt not be responsible lor entries lost or delayed in delivery and reserves the riOhl to disqualify any mutilated, altered, illegible efl!ries or entries which dO not compty with these rules. All enrries become the property ol the CNcago Tribune. By entering this contest. aH entrants agree that the Chicago Tribune has the sole righf to decide aN matters and disputes arising from U'lls contest and !hat its determination of the wimers shall be rmar and .....lng. 

3. 
PRIZES: Prizes are non-transferable and not redeemable for cash. FIRST PRIZE: Will be one (1) complete desklop computer package including cok:lr moOO.or and pti0\81. SECOND PRIZE will be~ (1} deluxe l$p\op compu\er 

4. 
WINNERS: All wiMers will be determined by random drawing, Wmners agree to allow use of !heir names and photos by the Chicago Tribune and other sponsors lot promotiOnal ~rposes. Winners assume arry tax liability lor prizes Winners will be notified by phone and rna~ 

5. 
ELIGIBILITY: Employees ol Chicago Tribune Company, Its affiliates, agencies and distribrubutors and their lam1lies are not ellg1ble. This conlestls subjecllo all federal, state and local laws and il void where prohibited 

6. 
In ta1rness to all, the Chicago Tnbune cannot diSC1Jss the conies! by phone, mail or tn any other way with the contestants. 


To order please complete this coupon or for faster service call 1-800-TRIBUNE (1-800-874-2863). Ask for operator 201. Phone orders will be automatically entered into the drawing. 
Ravitch said a stumbling block to the negotiations is the players' belief that owners will abandon their salary cap pro­posal. That view traveled across the bargaining table during last week's talks. 
"The owners came back having the impression that the players still thought the owners would fold," Ravitch said. 
Ravitch still said he had trouble believing the stoppage will continue into next season. Fehr has said the strike will continue "as long as it takes" to shelve the salary cap. 
Ravitch, whose $750,000-a­year contract expires Dec. 31, said he would stay into next year but wouldn't promise to remain if the walkout becomes protracted. Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf has said it is possible the strike could extend into 1996. 
''I'm not prepared to stay indefinitely, but I can't believe that I will abandon the prob­lem," Ravitch said. 
r.------------;-,
• "es•:,:~,~t;)!i?r~';z,
T .~ • ,... ~, il~~~t~.v;"', ,)t I want to subsCribe to the p,, ~~ Chicago Tribune and enter my Ji nam~ into the ~omputer ,6;:,,; J; drawtng! "'""i)?\ : ~,,,,,.,,,,, t 
Mall coupon to: 
Chicago Tribune,  
2000 York Road, Suite 124  
Oak Brook, ll 60521-0001  
Deliver:  Full Term 32 weeks  
Save 57"/o off newsstand  
Seven-day  _$60.80 ($1.90/week)  
Mon.-Sat  _$38.40($1.20/week)  
Sun. only  _$40.00($1.25/week)  
Half Term 16 weeks  
Save 50"/o off newsstand  
Seven-day  _$36.00 ($2.25/week)  
Mon.-Sat  _$24.00($1.50/week)  
Sun.oniy  _$24.00($1.50/week)  

Payment by:  
0 MasterCard  o Check  
o American Express  OVISA  
o Discover Card  

Account No·________ Exp Date,_________ 
Signature•--------­Please print Name,__________ 
School•---------­Year in school.________ Address,_________ 
Dorm/Apt_________ 
City·---------­State,______Zip.____ 
Phone(__), _______ 
Date of birth,________ 
Q I do not wish to order, but please submit my name Into the computer drawing. 
ln areas no1 serviced by horne de!Nery. mai Slbscr¢ons wil be 
oftefedatlhemail~rate.lhisotferexpiresDecember 
31,1994. OffernotvaidwitharryotherChicagoTrbJne<iscooot. Entries must be received by Odober 15.1994. 
-----------=..!.J.­
• 20 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE • 
• 
$5.70 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


Please join us for an informal 
OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, August 31st 4:00 -6:00p.m. at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 
If you have any questions, please call: Kent Goffinet (631-7938) or Katy Hart (631-7241) 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Sore hip one week, sprained brain the next, Goran Ivanisevic was gone from the 
U.S. Open a few hours after the first rain, muttering something about trying his luck on the women's tour. 
If he plays the way he did Monday, no one will notice. 
Ivanisevic, ranked No. 2, stood meekly behind the base­line during most of his 6-2, 7-5, 3-6, 7-5 loss in the first round to Markus Zoecke, a one-trick­pony of a player. 
Zoecke serves hard, and that's about it. At 6-foot-5, his head is always hunched over his thick chest, as if he's trying not to show how tall he really is. He looks awkward, top heavy, his legs surprisingly slender, and he walks with lit­tle mincing steps. 
Ivanisevic could have taken advantage of Zoecke's slow­ness, his erratic groundstrokes, his weak second serve. Instead, Ivanisevic displayed a mixture of indifference and confusion. He strolled away from one of Zoecke's 16 aces before the ball even crossed the net. He stared plaintively in the last game when one forehand by Zoecke clipped the net cord and skipped into the corner for a winner, and when one of his own sat up for Zoecke to put away on match point. 
There was only one short span during the fourth set when Ivanisevic played any­where close to his potential. He dealt out 11 of his 21 aces in that set. He had none in the rrrst set. 
"I don't know," Ivanisevic 
said a dozen times afterward, 
shaking his head as he sought 
to explain what happened. "I 
mean, I didn't play tennis to­
day. I don't know what I do 
there. Not only today. Every 
year when I come (to the) U.S. 
Open. I don't know what I am 
doing here. Sometimes I ask 
myself why I am coming here 
because ... I don't know." 
No one can figure out why 
he plays so badly at the Open. 
He lost in the second round 
here last year and in 1989, in 
the third round in 1990 and 
1992, and got as far as the 
fourth round only in 1991. He 
plays well on grass and on clay, 
and his game seems perfec.tly 
NEW YORK 

With 10 percent of the sea­son canceled because of the strike, federal mediators said they will meet separately Wednesday with baseball play­ers and owners. 
Union head Donald Fehr and management Richard Ravitch didn't have any new ideas Monday. Both said the positions of their sides hadn't changed, and Ravitch, choosing his words carefully, hinted strongly that owners are prepared to sacrifice the World Series in order to gain the salary cap they want. 
"I think the owners want to do everything humanly possible to save the postseason," Ravitch said during a telephone conference call with reporters. "But they also want to save baseball for the future, and that is a very, very high priority." 
No new bargaining sessions are scheduled. The strike, which began Aug. 12, canceled anything going on," Fehr said. "They know we're willing to get together if there's a purpose." 
Fehr, convinced that owners have a preset timetable, said the union considered having players return to the field for the remainder of the regular season, collect the rest of their salaries and then strike the postseason. Players are paid their entire salaries by the time the regular season ends. 
"We've played with the no­tion but not seriously," he said. "Either they want to make a deal or they don't want make a deal. We'll find out soon enough. It does not appear they want to make a deal." 
Ravitch spoke with John Calhoun Wells, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and Fehr spoke with Brian Flores, an assistant to Wells. Flores said the mediators wouldn't hold a meeting unless they thought there could be progress. 
"If there's any reason for it, there will be one," he said by scrimmage. 

Holtz hasn't said anything publicly to downplay the pro­jections. But he remains unsure of Powlus' ability to handle game pressure after two weeks of abbreviated activ­ity. 
"I want (Powlus) to be the quarterback, but I'm not going to play him if he's not ready," Holtz said, quickly adding, "If anybody can do it with limited practice time, Ron Powlus can." 
• SPORTS BRIEfS 

TENNIS TRYOUTS: Anyone in­terested in trying out for the men's tennis team should show up at the Courtney Tennis Center, located at the outdoor tennis courts, on September 6 at 3 p.m. For more informa­tion, contact assistant coach 
J.P. Weber at 631-4841. It is important that individuals let Coach Weber know abou their class schedule, credentials as a player and local phone num­ber. 
OFF-CAMPUS FOOTBALL: Any off-campus women interested in playing off-campus interhall football, call Kelly Guerin at 273-MASH by September 5. DON'T PLAY FOR YOUR OLD DORM! PLAY FOR US! 
Come to a ReceptionThursday, Sept. 1st, from 7 -9pmAt the Notre Dame Room in La Fortune 
and 



• 
the LSAT and how to prepare for it 

• 
Law School Admissions 

• 
How the Pre-Law office and the Pre-Law Society can help you

• 
The Notre Dame Law School 


Also mark y_our calendars for a FREE LSAT TEST DRIVE on Sept. 3rd at 8:30 am De Bartolo Room 101.* 
*Please call 631-8637. to make a reservation. For general information: 
Call 1-800-KAP-TEST 

APLA 

page 20 
Powlus 
continued from page 28 

teams of National Football League doctors last week, but he offered his own, simple diagnosis. 
"Two-a-days," he said. "Aches and pains go away when two-a-days go away." 
Sophomore Tom Krug and freshman Leon Blunt have been taking most of the snaps in Powlus' absence. 
A knee bruise kept Blunt out of practice Monday, leaving Krug alone under center. 
"Tom Krug has made a lot of progress and obviously he's gotten a lot of reps," Holtz said. "I have a lot of optimism for his future." 
But it's Powlus' immediate future that concerns Holtz the most. 
Myths about the phenom's ability have grown to unprece­dented proportions since his startling charge toward a start­ing spot a year ago, which ended when he broke his clavi­cle in the final preseason 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Hill hired to guide sputtering Spurs 
Associated Press 

SAN ANTONIO 
Orlando Magic assistant coach Bob Hill confirmed Monday he has been chosen head coach of the San Antonio Spurs. 
The decision, expected to be formally announced by the team Monday night, was con­firmed by Hill in a television interview as he left Florida for Texas. The interview was broadcast on KSAT-TV in San Antonio. 
Other Sail Antonio news or­ganizations also reported Monday night the naming of the former Indiana Pacers head coach was imminent. 
It had been widely reported that Hill had interviewed with the Spurs and that he was a front-runner for the job, which has been empty since John Lucas resigned June 9 after a management shakeup. Lucas was named coach and general manager of the Philadelphia 76ers several days later. 
Hill also was courted by the Minnesota Timberwolves, who named Indiana Pacers assistant Bill Blair as head coach on Monday. Hill had said in Monday's San Antonio Express­News that San Antonio was his preference. 
"San Antonio is a great, great opportunity," Hill said. "It is a deep team. It has play­ers that can play multiple posi­tions. It has two great centers (David Robinson and Moses Malone)." 

Food Servers & Bartenders Must be over 21 , Flexible Hours Apply Anytime 
272--3672 
Cleveland Rd. across from UP Mall 
Take KAPLAN and get your HIGHEST score! 


ALWAYS LOW PRICES. ALWAYS WAL-MART. 


r------:.--, 
r------;.--,

BaSIC BaSIC 
Folding Bath Sheets Clothes 
0 

Towels 1\vins starting at 
Dryer

$187 8984 
L.-------.J 
rFrei ~'Cie8r--, : Flavored Water 48¢ : 
33 fl. OZ. Limit 6 
L--------.JI 
rF+-h ---~--.-I ~~~ oihe Wai-Mart Pharmacy ss.oo 
armacyr .-,pecla1s ~ I •• 0 
GetYour (GoodA.____Locatlon) Prescription FREE Up To SS.OO,
Ibuprofen Twin Pak-$478 II•• 
over ss Pay The Difference.
I 1Lim•t 1 Coupon Per Fam~y1 Allergy Medicine -$397 30 ­
I IMaxiiTlum Day Supply) customer Signature 
$564

Slim Fast -I II rransw___ 

L _ 6.!_a~ :!.S!: ~b~e_ _J r..~.!!~~~l!!~~~~--------------_,.:r=:..~.::..J 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, August 30, 1994 
., Two more Seminole suspensions, still questions linger 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

Florida State officials on Monday ruled two more players ineli­gible for Saturday's A \_ 
season o~en-Forest Conoly 
er agamst Virginia. 
pended for two games and of­fensive guard Patrick McNeil for three games. McNeil and Conoly are two of the most ex­perienced players on the of­fensive line where Long hoped to compete for playing time this fall. 
However, the suspensions have been determined by D'Alemberte and do not satisfy NCAA regulations. The NCAA filed suit last week seeking to void a state law that interferes with its ability to rule on eligi­


Investigators said offensive bility questions in the state of lineman Marcus Long could Florida. have been permanently banned If the suit is not settled byif he hadn't acknowledged his Florida State's Sept. 17 game at presence at a dinner paid for Wake Forest, the school would by a prospective agent. be forced to re-examine its pre­Long, a 320-pound sophomore sent suspensions. guard, was declared ineligible for the first two games of the Long was not completely season while offensive tackle forthcoming in his initial inter­Forrest Conoly will alsO' contin­view, according to the inves­ue on an indefmite suspension. tigative report from a Kansas "There are still some unre­City law firm. solved questions concerning "Had Long not re-contacted Forrest Conoly," Florida State us voluntarily and had we been President Talbot "Sandy" required to prove the informa­D'Alemberte said in announc­ton he did report, his suspen­ing the latest suspensions. sion may have been perma­The defending national cham­nent," wrote attorneys Michael pions will open the season Glazier and Richard Evrard. without five players who took Long told the attorneys he gifts from prospective agents in was among several Florida November 1993. State players who accepted a All-American linebacker Der­free meal from a prospectiverick Brooks and tailback Tiger agent at a Tallahassee restau­McMillon were earlier sus­rant. lUSH! GRE Review GMATReview LSATReview 3 Wed. & 2 Sat. 5 Tuesdays 2 Mon. & 2 Tues. 6-10 p.m. Wed. 6-10 p.m. 6-10 p.m.8 a.m.-noon Sat begins Sept. 13 begins Sept. 12begins Sept. 10 Intensive strategy review at less than halfthe cost ofother programs. IUSB Continuing Education 1700 Mishawaka Avenue Call237-4261 for info  AEROBICS SCHEDULE FALL 1994 MONDAY I WEDNESDAY 4:lHJ-5:00 Combo Aerobics Gym 2 JACC $18 4:00-5:00 Step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne $18 4:10-5:10 Step Aerobics Gym 1 JACC $18 5:20-6:20 I ntro to Aerobics Gym 2 JACC $18 5:20-6:20 Step Aerobics Gym 1 JACC $18 5:20-6:20 Step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne $18 6:45-7:45 Water Aerobics Pool Rolfs $18 .it. ...,9:08:...1 0:00 .... cotn·bo Rerobtcs ' ffljom 30 I Ro~'*"" $1 8 TUESDAY I THURSDAY 4:00-5:00 Step Aerobics Gym 1 JACC $18 4:10-5:10 High Intensity Gym 2 JACC $18 4:00-5:00 Step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne $18 5:20-6:20 High Intensity Gym 1 JACC $18 5:20-6:20 Step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne $18 5:20-6:20 Stretchercise Gym 2 JACC $18 9:00-10:00 High Intensity Room 301 Rockne $18 FRIDAY 4:00-5:00 Step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne $10 MONDAY I WEDNESDAY I FA IDAY 12:15-12:45 Beg Step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne $15 12: 15-1 2:45 Water Aerobics Pool Rolfs $15 SUNDAY 9:00-10:00 Step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne $10 8:00-9:00 Step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne $10 All classes are co-ed. Men are encouraged to participate. Classes begin September 7 Registration Begins August 30 at 8:00 AM Register in aduance at RecSports. Class sizes are limited.  

kinko•s® the copy center 2202-C South Bend Ave. Greenwood Plaza 271-0398 109 E. Jefferson Jefferson Centre 234-8709  Service Aces At Kinko's, it's our knowledgeable and friendly staff. At Notre Dame, it's what the volleyball team delivers.  FRIDAY & SATURDAY SEPT. 2-3 • Notre Dame • Western Michigan • Michigan State • Illinois-Chicago FREE FOOD, PRIZES, ENTERTAINMENT!  

Tuesday, August 30, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
AD 01ove 
continued from page 28 
qualities that Dick brought to the job," Reverend E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., executive vice-president said at the August 1 press conference. 
"He understands (Notre Dame), has an appreciation for the school and is committed to the University and its athletic program. He has credentials as a businessman, a leader, a manager, a television and radio announcer and also has served the government in a diplomatic role." 
Wadsworth, who is a 1966 graduate of Notre Dame and a member of the Irish football team, has been the Canadian Ambassador to Ireland since 1989. He has also been consid­ered to fill the position of com­missioner for both the 
• 
Canadian Football League and the National Hockey League. 
He will unofficially begin his transition in April. 
"You can assume you won't see a large degree of change," Wadsworth said. "Dick has had an extremely successful tenure as athletic director. I do not have a list of objectives. That's the reason for overlapping with Dick for a couple of months. Anything I do will be with his direct assistance." 
Rosenthal has been Notre Dame's athletic director since 1987, and has greatly improved the status of the university's Olympic sports. 
His list of accomplishments include engineering a deal with NBC Sports to televise all Notre Dame home football games through the year 2000 and, most recently, aligning the ma­jority of Notre Dame sports with the Big East, one of the nation's most prestigious con­ferences. 
"The last seven years have been one of the more enjoyable times in my life," Rosenthal said. "It's a dream come true to serve a university that, a) you love, and b) you admire and is in lockstep with the ideals of our church and our country." 
Rosenthal, 62, ranks third on the tenure list of all athletic di­rectors, behind only legends Edward "Moose" Krause and Knute Rockne. His services will not be forgotten. 
"Most importantly and much to Dick's credit, what has been uppermost in the athletic pro­gram and the University of Notre Dame is the way it has been administered and the role it plays in our educational mis­sion," Beauchamp said. 
"Dick has not only main­tained that, but it has risen to a new level. We're very proud of that." 

· 5505 Grape Rd 277-5900 
Big East 
continued from page 28 
the Irish men's basketball pro­gram, which has staggered in an independent's daze for the last several years. 
"Now we have some more ammunition with which to pull the trigger," MacLeod said, dis­playing his excitement and also his excellent grammar. "Being an independent is a drawback in recruiting." 
All but five Irish athletic pro­grams will compete in the Big East. 
Football, fencing, lacrosse and women's golf will have in­dependent status and the hock­ey team will remain in the prestigious Central Collegiate Hockey Association. 
Everyone else will get a lesson in revisionist geography. 
But if Notre Dame is closer to home in the Midwestern Colle­giate Conference, it will be clos­er to the competition in the Big East. 
The Irish dominate virtually every sport in the decaying MCC. 
It won't be the same in the Big East, but a higher level of play and better preparation for the post-season mean more than lopsided victories. 
"The Big East afforded us a unique opportunity for virtually all of our Olympic sports-com­petition at national levels," Irish athletic director Dick Rosenthal said. "The Big East enjoys an automatic bid (to the NCAA Tournaments) in all of the NCAA sports that they sponsor." 
That has been a problem, most notably in baseball and women's basketball, teams that have been denied tournament berths in the past because of the weak conference slate. 
Many other Irish sports have thrived despite the lackluster MCC. Volleyball and the men's and women's soccer and cross country teams have been push­ing the nation's best for the first time ever. 
The higher-profile of the Big East will only increase their ex­posure. 
But it's the men's basketball 
team that needs the biggest re­
cussitation. 
MacLeod is breathing easier 
already. 
"I would hope this gives us a 
chance to win the national 
championship," he said. "I 
know that's not realistic at this 
point, but in three to five years, 
who knows?" 
TAKE THE KEYS 
[Aif A[AB TAKE ASTANO 


FRIENDS DON'T lH FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK 
The Observer 
. .
Is now accepting applications for the 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Ifinterested in this paid position, contact Beth Regan at 631-4540 or 284-4449. 
English as a Second Language 
INTENSIVe 27-WEEK PROGRAM 
at Indiana University South Bend 
• 
Improve active use of written and spoken English 

• 
Understand verbal and non-verbal differences in communication between cultures 

• 
Develop and improve listening, speaking, reading and writing skills 

• 
Receive individualized attention 


Oct. 3-Dec. 9; Jan. 9-May 12 9 a.m.-1 p.m. Monday through Friday 
IUSB Continuing Educ_ation 
1700 Mishawaka Avenue 
Call 237-4261 
..... _ 
~ 


f 
~p~~~e~2~4~------------------------------------------~~------~-~~-~-~-~-~-~==~~====~~==~~~~~=-==~==~-TI~u~es~d=ay~,=A=u~g==wt~3~0~,=19=9~4 
' 
I '":). 
... 
• IRISH OPPONENTS 
Wolverine woes 

The Observer/Jake Peters 

Michigan receiver Walter Smith will miss the first three games of the season. Heisman candidate Tyrone Wheatley, shown against Notre Dame in 1993, may join him on the sideline with a separated shoulder. rn as it vvas called. had four electric vvashing ITlachines vvhich could be rented by the hour 
[ 
Ill 
~ 
.r: 
{fl 
~ 
Ill 
~ 
<;]' 
(l] 
tn 
-~ 
<{ 
(;; 
ui 
~ ~ 
f 
~ 
~ 
0 
u. 
_(;; 
ll 
Ill 
& 
~ [ If~ou 
p~T6CJ much ~orlhe6e. 
~ 
[ J 
_I!! 
!) 
{fl 
L 
;c 
Ill 
~ ~ 
IU 
Q) 
). 
0 
10 ,!;; 
~ 
.Q 
c: 
m 
..0 
Q) 
>
IU 
.r.:. 
~ 
~ u Y©>U:r~: till'oWVns 
MoWt:J iN li~. 
E 
.r.:. 
.. .. .. TARGET COUPON EXPIRES 10/31/94
~ ~ r--------------------,x 
" ~snr I $1OFFwhen you buy any of these I 
· scratch-resistant, easy-to-clean 1 Rubbermaid products: Clothes hamper, laundry I basket and wastebasket in varying sizes and colors. I 
Style #2803, 2838, 2987, 2986, 2965, 2973 I 
Limit one coupon per purchase. Reproductions not accepted. 1 Cashier: Scan Product, Then 
Scan Coupon. Use Target I ; Coupon Key. I 
Associared Press 
ANN ARBOR, Michigan. 

Fifth-ranked Michigan, al­ready reeling from the loss of tailback Tyrone Wheatley for its first few games, will also start the season without wide receiver Walter Smith. 
Smith, one of the Wolverines' co-captains, will probably miss the team's first three games because of a knee injury suf­fered in practice Friday, Michigan coach Gary Moeller said Monday. 
Moeller said Smith will under­go arthroscopic surgery this week with the hope he could return in time for the start of the Big Ten season on Oct. 1 at Iowa. 
"We're losing a very strong competitor that we need out there,'' Moeller said. "Walter Smith's presence will always be felt because of the kind of guy he has been and the way he's played the game. 
"Hopefully it's going to be for a short period of time. Hopefully they can scope him and we'll have him back after a 
couple of weeks of rehabilita­
tion." 
The Wolverines lost Wheatley 

last week to a shoulder injury. 
Both Wheatley and Smith 

were injured during contact 
practice drills. Smith's injury 
will quite likely fuel a fire of fan 
controversy ignited when 
Wheatley got hurt that Moeller 
puts his top players in peril 
with preseason contact work. 
"You just don't go out and 

play the game," Moeller said. 
"And if your reactions aren't 
resharpened every year and all 
those things, you put a guy in 
position where they don't learn 
to protect themselves out ·there." 
Moeller also said Wheatley 

had asked for more practice 
contact than the Wolverine 
coaching staff had planned for 
him 
"It isn't that we put them in 

there all the time; we never 
have," he said. "In Wheatley's 
case he's played less than he 
ever did, and that's probably 
the way it should be. 
The Observer 
is looking for eager freshman to work for the SPORTS DEPARTMENT. Writing, editing and reporting positions are available. 
There will be a meeting for those interested on Monday and Tuesday night at 6:30 in The Observer office, 3rd floor LaFortune 
Contact George Dohrmann at the sports desk (1-4543) or at home (289-8830) for more information. 
·-­

L Welcome Ba~
0 
~tudents! 
$500 Off with this ad! Must have a &tudenl ID 
full &rvice ~alon Hair • ~kin • Nails
v 


1357 N. Ironwood Corner of Edison 0 Ironwood 234-6767 



RECREKDONALSPORTS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTRAMURALS 
CLUB SPORTS CHALLENGE U FITNESS RECREATION SERVICES 
LOCATED IN THE JACC 
1ST FLOOR 
L-------~~~~-~ ~~9~:_._,J 

Tuesday, August 30, 1994 
·The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 1994 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6TH 7:00PM-9:00PM JOYCEACC 
The following groups are registered to participate in Activities Night. Ifyour club or organization is not listed, and you would like to participate, please stop by the Student Activities Office (315 La Fortune) to register. The deadline to regis­ter for Activities Night is noon on Friday, September 2nd. Call631-7308 for more information. 
Accounting Association Adolescent Support/Parenting Ad works African-American Student Alliance African Student Association AIDS Awareness AIDS Ministries/ Aids Assist Aikido Club Air Force ROTC American Cancer Society Club Amer. Institute of Aeronautics/ Astronautics American Lebanese Club American Red Cross 
t American Society of Civil Engineers Amer. Society of Mechanical Engineers Amnesty International Anthropology Club Arnold Air Society Arts/Letters Business Society Asian American Association Association ofArt History Students Bagpipe Club Educational Talent Search 
Entrepreneur Club 
Equestrian Club 

Fellowship ofChristian Athletes 
Finance Club 
Fire Home 

First Aid Services Team Flying Club Folk Choir Food share 
German Club 

Goodwill ofMichiana 
Greek American Association Habitat for Humanity Hall Presidents Council Weekend Wheels Handbell Choir Hansel Head Start Hapkido Club Hawaii Club Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) 
Hispanic American Organization 
Homeless Shelter Children's Group 
Bahai Club -.. ---India Association 
Ballet Folklorica Azul y Oro 
Ballroom Dance Club 
Baptist Student Union 
Bed and Britches, Etc. (BABE) 
Best Buddies 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters 
Black Cultural Arts Festival 
Boxing Club 
Boy Scouts ofAmerica-La Salle Council 
Camp Millhouse, Inc. 
Campus Alliance Rape Elimination (CARE) 
Campus Fellowship 
Campus Ministry 
CANCO, Inc. (Child Abuse/Neglect) 
Center for the Homeless 
CSC Holy Cross Associates 
CSC Seminars 
CSC Student Advisory Board 
CSC Summer Service Projects 
CSC Urban Plunge 
CHEETA (Ethical Treatment ofAnimals) 
Children of Mary 
Climbing Club 
College Republicans 
Collegiate Choir 
Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 
Community ofCaring 
Community ofthe Intnl. Lay Apostolate 
Community Resource Center 
Computer Club 
Coro Primavera De Nuestra Senora 
Council for Fun & Learn 
Council for the Retarded 
Council on International Business Develop. 
Cricket Club Cuban Amer. Union of Student Advocates Disma of Michiana 
Dome InstituteofElectrical/Electronic Engineers International Student Organization Investment Club Irish Accent Irish Outdoors Italian Club Japan Club Judo Club Juggler Junior Achievement ofMichiana, Inc. Knights ofColumbus Knights oflmmaculata Korean Club La Casa de Amistad, Inc. League ofBlack Business Students League ofUnited Latin American Citizens Legendiers League Liturgical Choir Logan MadMacs Marketing Club Martial Arts Institute Math Club Mental Health Assoc. of St. Joe County Minority Pre-Medical Society Mock Trial Association Model United Nations Multicultural Executive Committee Muscular Dystrophy Association Muslim Students Association NAACP National Hispanic Institute Native American Students Association Neighborhood Housing Services of S. Bend Neighborhood Study Help Program Pax-Christi Philippine Club Physical Therapy Club 
Porn Pon Squad  
Pre-Law Society  
Pre-Professional Society  
Pre-Vet Club  
Psychology Club  
Rainbows, Catholic Charities  
Ranger Challenge Team  
Rec Sports  
Recyclin' Irish  
Right-To-Life  
Rowing Club  
Rugby Club  
SADD  
Safe Walk  
Sailing Club  
St. Joseph's Health Center (Chapin St.)  
St. Stephen's Good News Club  
Scholastic Magazine  
Sex Offense Services  
Shenanigans  - 
Ski Team  
Soccer Club  
Society ofAutomotive Engineers  
Society ofProfessional Journalists  
Society ofWomen Engineers  
Sorin Cadet Club  
Sorin Rifle Team  
South Bend Comm. School Corp.-Adult Ed.  
Spanish Club  
Special Olympics  
Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry  
Student Art Forum  
Student Goverment  
Student Pugwash  
Student Union Board  
Student Tutorial Education Program  
Students Encouraging Religious Vocations  
Students for Environmental Action  
Students with Aids Training  
Synchronized Swim Club  
TaeKwonDo Club  
Technical Review  
Toastmaster's International  
TroopNotre Dame  
Ultimate Club  
Undergrad Schools Comm./Hospitality Prog.  
United Health Services  
Voices ofFaith Gospel Choir  
Volleyball Club (Men's)  
Volunteers Improving Parkview (VIP)  •"  
Water Polo  
Wind Ensemble  
Women's Care Center  
Women's Liturgical Choir  
Women's Resource Center  
World Hunger Coalition  
WSND-FM  
WVFI-AM  
YMCA of Michiana  
YWCA of St. Joseph's County  

Sponsored by: Student Activities, Rec Sports, and the Center for Social Concerns 
----~----------~--·-~ 
Tuesday, August 30, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 26 
~r 
.,, , 
I 
iJF I 
I I I 
• • I 
I OWlS t e ttme t01 
i I . I • I 
1 stgn up or your 1 
I • I
1 sentor year oo , 1 
.. I
I

f ~ 

I I 
I I [ I wHEN? Tuesday, August 3Qth through I ! I Friday, September 2nd I . 1· IWHERE? Room 108 LaFortune Student I I I Center l1 
I I
I Portrait sittings will take place Monday, I · i r ~ I September 5 through Friday, September 23 I ! in 108 LaFortune. Don't miss your ONLY ! . I opportunity to have your senior portrait taken! I 
: . 
! 1.. ..1
I . 
i 
I I f 
page 27

Tuesday, August 30, 1994 The Observer • TODAY 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
&6 Prolific "author" Few Good Men" 40 Theme of this 67 --pro nobis 17 Sagan's "--puzzle 68 Plains Indians 
Brain" 42 End up ahead 18 40-Across's 69 Items in a code 43 Frank Baum's 
beloved 11 70-Luthor
initial initial 20 Shifty shoe? 71 Boss Tweed 
44Angel's

22 African nation lampooner
headgearsince 1993 45 California's23 Danger 

motto DOWN 
25 Reps. 
47 Hebrew master 

1 Liturgical robes friends 
26 Close. as 
49 Dutch airline 2 Eroded 29 Musician's job 51 Spinners, e.g. 3 Bacchanalian cry 4Crab, e.g. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Small rug 6 Late tennis great 7 It may be seria 
21 Get-up or bulla 
24 1860 nominee 

a Single-named in 40-Across 
folk singer 26 Less cluttered 9 40-Across 27 Florida city landmark 28 1976 Nobel 10 Hungary's Nagy Prize winner 11 Galileo's home from 40-Across 
~~+=-! 13 40-Across's 
30 Indian district eastern border 32 "-Ike" (SO's

-=+-~+-+:-~1'!""1 14 Belgian river 
slogan)

.=.+=.,~~ 19 Feature of 
33 Millay and 40-Across, Ferber

according to Sandburg 
BILL WATTERSON 
'Nt.Ll S\JR£. II= T\1\S 
Wt--S "' Sct\OOL t>t-.i I 
'NI-\~T WO\llD I CARE? 
.. £\TI-l~ 1\\I'S I~ M~ l\lCI<.~ 01>-i, OR l MISS£I) 11-\'t. Hltl·OI·REC'C55 &11. ~G~IN. 


37 Ripen 57 Humerus neighbor
41 Kind 58 Mary
46 Type of roulette Robinson's land 
48 Sets sail 
60 Nintendo rival 50Avg. 
61 Impending times 53 Pub perch 
62 "Give it a-" 55 Therefore 64Wailing 56 Perfume holder instrument 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

-

-
So did the Russells. 
Today, more and more people are living closer and closer to the forests. Thats why, today, forest fires kill more than trees. Please be careful. Only you can prevent forest fires. 

A Public S<rvice ofIhe Ad Couoteil. the USDA. Fimsl Sm!ict aood your Slalt FimsttT. 
._, 
wow: NQ&j}~ 
15 OI-l 11-\£. SW\t-IGS! I. 
Cf>.t-11 'at.U£.~E IT! 
\ 
--. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Greatly impressed 5Chairman­&Poet Mandelstam 12 Charming 15 Viper 16 Moore of "A 
1-\t>. \1~ ! l ft.,\.lo\Cl':>T NEVER GE\ f>.. SWI~ f>..T ~G:SS! 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

31 Composer of "Socrate" 34 National park in Maine 36 Shem's father 38 Getting on 
39 Indian writer Santha Rama­

52 Brain tests, for 
short 54 Essentials 56 Common speech 
59 Bureau 63 Locale of 40-Across 65 Mourn 
Keep up with the latest happenings from under the Dome. 
N~ ~~ 
Get the news that affects your Add · Th Ob 
. ress e server 
Notre Dame/Samt Mary's student . State P.O Bo Q for $30 a semester or $50 a year. Ctty Zip No~re ~me, IN 46556 
-
SPORTS 
page 28 Tuesday, August 30, 1994 
• football 
Arm-ageddon? Powlus says he's ready, Holtz seeking shelter 

By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
Fallout from his latest malady mushroomed over the land, raising questions about his durability and sending his coach in search of shelter. 
But Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus said Monday that he's prepared to play in Saturday's season opener against Northwestern. 
MissingMurphy 
Baseball coach leaves to take head post at Arizona State 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
Pat Murphy fulfilled a boy's dream seven years ago when he took over as head coach of the Notre Dame baseball pro­gram. 
A dream that festered inside him when he used to hitchhike to South Bend as a teenager for Irish basketball games and drive all night with hopes that an usher would let him into Notre Dame Stadium. 
But on August 17, the boys dream gave way to the man's. Murphy accepted the head po­sition at Arizona State, citing his desire to reach the top of his profession. 

"To college baseball this (job) is Notre Dame football," Murphy said. "I don't think I could go to a more established program than Arizona State." 
Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal tagged Paul Mainieri, former coach at Air Force, as Murphy's replacement. He comes bursting with ·enthusi­asm, but looking like a drop of water hoping to fill a very large bucket. 
Murphy took the Irish pro­gram to· a level no one could have foreseen when he first called Gene Corrigan lobbying for the job. He wasn't even a top candidate then, but he 
see MURPHY I page 16 

Rosenthal resigns
-
By MIKE NORBUT Associate Sports Editor 

The Irish sports marathon will still continue, but the baton is about to be passed. 
Athletic director Dick Rosenthal has decided to end his leg of the run, announcing his retirement, effective August 1, 1995. The announcement was made on August 1, 1994, exact­ly one year prior to his planned departure. 
Now it's up to Michael Wadsworth to make sure that the exchange is a clean one. 
"Mike brings with him the same 
see AD CHANGE /page 23 
Tendonitis in his right arm has limited the sophomore's practice time over the last two weeks. 
And some people-including head coach Lou Holtz-won­dered whether he would be ready for his scheduled debut. 
"He may not play (against Northwestern). I'm serious," Holtz said. "There's no way in the world I'm going to put him out there if he's not adequately prepared. That's the greatest disservice you can do to a play­er." 
Powlus was limited to about 30 passes in Monday's practice and figures to have similar limi­tations today and Wednesday. Holtz said his quarterbacks routinely throw almost twice that many in a normal session. 
But Powlus expects to be in the starting lineup Saturday, though he's unlikely to throw that many passes then. 
"It's just a sore arm," he said with a sheepish grin. "It's not an uncommon thing for me. I'll be ready to play and I'll be ready to start. Obviously, that's up to Coach Holtz." 

Powlus attributes his injury to overuse, nothing more. Throwing countless passes dur­ing the first two weeks of two­a-day sessions took a toll on his arm. 
He was examined by two 
see POWLUS I page 20 


The Basketball helped most by conference

By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame basketball coach John MacLeod must have felt a little like Willy Loman. 
He'd trudge home from re­cruiting trips, arms full of suit­cases and samples, with noth­ing to show for his weeks on the road.· 
MacLeod had visions of a fu­ture when he could walk into a town and every prospect would know his name. 
But that was just a delusion. 
Until now. 
In July, Notre Dame an­nounced plans to join the Big East Conference in the 1995-96 academic year, a move ru­mored for months, but believed to be dead after the conference invited Rutgers and West Vir­ginia last spring. 
• Who's In 
The Irish teams that will begin play in the Big East conference in the 1995-96 seasons 
Soccer Volleyball Cross-Country Men's Golf Basketball Swimming Track Baseball Softball Tennis 

But talks qmetly continued, 
without the slightest leak until just days before the official an­
nouncement. 
The move will most visibly aid 
see BIG EAST I page 23 


of note...
INSIDE ND SPORTS 
The Irish have a new baseball coach in Paul 
Coming Wednesday, previews of 
Mainrieri. 
fall sports start. 
See page 16 



