

Bus tragedy remembered quietly on anniversary 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
The second anniversary of the bus crash that killed two Notre Dame swimmers passed quietly on campus and in the courts Monday. 
Two years is the limit allowed under Indiana's statute of limi­tations for lawsuits stemming from a crash. Eight have been filed, including three last week, but none was received Monday. 
Several services were sched­uled on campus to remember the accident that killed Colleen Hipp, 19, of St. Louis and Mar­garet Beeler, 18, of Granger. The freshmen died Jan. 24, 1992, when the team bus they were riding skidded off the snowy Indiana Toll Road on the return from a meet at North­western in suburban Chicago. 
More than 30 people were injured. 
Three lawsuits have been set­tled out of court, including one filed by Hipp's parents. The set­tlements are confidential. 
The Hipp's suit and one filed by swim team members Debo­rah Brady and Cynthia Safford were the only two naming the university. All eight suits ac­cuse the bus company, United Limo Inc., and driver Howard Dixon of negligence. 
Beeler's case is scheduled for a Feb. 4 pre-trial conference in St. Joseph Circuit Court. An at­tempt to settle the case failed last year. 
No court dates have been set in the other pending suits. Only one, filed by swimmer Karen Keeley, seeks specified dam­ages. Keeley is asking for $650,000. 

Standing to sit 
Flanner Hall juniors J.J. Kochman and Adam Anderson and Howard Hall junior Leslie Dittmar register for Junior Parent's Weekend seating in room 112 of the Center for Continuing Education. 



ND joins alliance for education 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
In response to the ever-in­creasing need for enthusiastic Catholic educators, Notre Dame has joined the National Catholic Bishops Conference's Department of Education and the National Catholic Education Association in preparing the groundwork for a professional teaching corps. 
The Alliance for Catholic Education, (ACE) will train and place college graduates in pri­mary and secondary schools, according to Father Timothy Scully, coordinator of the pilot program. 
Many dioceses are in dire need of qualified teachers, es­pecially in the southern states, he said. Women religious, for­merly the backbone of Catholic schools, no longer command as great a presence in schools, and school administrators must use other resources to fill the gap. 
"One of the most magnificent legacies from the 19th and 20th centuries of the Catholic Church is Catholic schools," Scully said. "Who is going to continue it?" 
By looking to college stu­dents, ACE hopes to provide the schools with educators pos­sessing the best combination of intelligence, spirituality and ex­citement. It also wants to give the participants an opportunity to sample the teaching profes­sion, he said. 
"We're looking for flexible people with a sense of humor who can communicate values," said Scully. "We're looking for Catholics who will be remem­bered not for what they taught but for how they taught." 
ACE will place participants in 
see ACE I page 4 
Turn to the Viewpoint section for SMC presidential and vice­presidential candidate infor­mation and Observer endorse­ment. 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Strengthening the Mary's community from within by offering more on-campus activities for students and fac­ulty was the most significant is­sue discussed at last night's Student Body PresidentNice President of Academic Affairs debate. 
ELECTIONS 
The Noha 
Ganzouri!Melissa Peters ticket 
and the 
Sheedy/Angela McNulty ticket 
share many of the same goals 
for the upcoming year but hold 
different ideas regarding the 
implementation of these goals, 
according to Student Body 
President candidate Sheedy. 
These goals include increas­
ing student involvement at 
campus wide events, expanding 
service projects for the student 
body, improving ND/SMC rela­
tions, addressing academic 
equality in senior comprehen­
sives and reaching out to stu­
dents at other Catholic wom­
en's colleges with whom Saint 
Mary's students can identify. 
The lack of involvement at 
Saint Mary's is not due to apa­
thetic students but to the lack 
of publicizing campus events, 
according to El-Ganzouri. 
"We plan to address this 
problem by placing a master 
calendar of ongoing campus 
events in the dining hall," she 
said. 
The El-Ganzouri/Peters plat­
form is also interested in offer­
ing a one-credit course for un­
see 0 EBATEl page 4 


Candidates pledge to offer more activities 
The Observer/Jake Peters Noha EI-Ganzouri spoke last evening during a debate between Saint Mary's candidates for Student Body President and Vice President of Academic Affairs in Haggar College Center. Melissa Peters is running with EI-Ganzouri against Angela McNulty and Deborah Sheedy for the positions. 

SMC works to equalize comps 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
Assistant News Editor 
At last year's student body election debate, future student body leaders Mary Beth Wilkinson and Lynn O'Donnell presented their election plat­form. Among the issues ad­dressed was their concern about the Saint Mary's senior comprehensive requirement (comp). 
Since those debates, Wilkinson and O'Donnell have been working with students, faculty -and administrators to investigate equalizing comp re­quirements in all academic de­partments. 
Currently, senior comps are required for graduation· and may vary from 50 page re­search papers to cumulative exams depending on the aca­demic department. 
"During the year, we have run into some major roadblocks on this project," Wilkinson said. "There is some resentment from the faculty but as students we can push for changes but there must be an agreement from the faculty and adminis­trators." 
"We have made some progress but we can't exactly tell how much," she said. "The resistance is understandable on this delicate issue." 
Their progress includes a book listing of comp require­ments for each department which will be available to stu­dents this spring. 
"This book will be designed so that underclassmen will know what is expected in each department in regard to senior comps," O'Donnell said. "It will be available at the registrar's office and at Career Counseling and Development." 
This project stemmed from a split within the Student Academic Council (SAC). According to O'Donnell, nine people from the SAC have the sole responsibility of working on this project regarding the senior comps. 
John Pauley, assistant pro-
see COMPS I page 4 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, January 28, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Non-debate ignores real 
•
tssues 
Debate or agreement? 
That was the question running through my mind last night as I wasted 45 minutes listening to the mindless uninformed ban­ter (if their polite discus­sion can even be called banter) between the candi­dates running for Student Body President and Vice Elizabeth Regan President of Academic Assistant News Editor 
Affairs. 
Both tickets began by ------­agreeing that the turnout for the last minute debate was much improved over last year's. Approximately 35 students showed up. 
Then it was on to the issues, or so I thought, until I realized that there were no real issues to be debated. 
Is it too much to ask for candidates to take an active interest in the issues that would actually represent the concerns of their constituents? How about a firm stand? How about even a faint stand? How about some issues other than salad dressing and yogurt? 
Not only were the two tickets aspiring to polit­ical advancement uninformed, but more embar­rassing is the fact that they had absolutely no opinion. 
Each speaker began her answer by first agreeing with her opponent and then rephras­ing her opponents answer in her own words. 
Both tickets agreed that a reporter from the Observer should be present at meetings in order to inform the student body of govern­ment happenings. 
Beat reporters covering BOG and RHA have rarely missed a meeting this year and always write a comprehensive article about the events discussed in the following day's paper. How could this be overlooked by anyone interested in running the student government? 
El-Ganzouri's ticket is interested in providing a study day prior to final exams. Anyone who has done her homework should realize that this issue has been beaten to death and will never be passed without a good plan. 
Sheedy advocated the Saint Mary's Christian Service Center that has been on the agenda all year. The SMCSC received little support from BOG this year because of economic concerns and lack of research. She attributed the slow progress to lack of student involvment. 
I have always been a proud to be a student at 
Saint Mary's, however, last night I was truly 
embarrassed to be part of the student body that 
one of these two tickets will be representing 
next year. 
Today's editorial regarding the election encourages students to abstain. Last year's editorial endorsed a ticket-but with caution. 
Students reinforced its reluctance to put faith 
in either ticket last year with a low voter 
turnout. 
There is obviously a discrepancy between the 
candidates definition of a student government's 
role and the expectations of a typical student. 
As a student I would hope my peers are 
looking for concrete goals and sure-ast steps to 
achieve those goals. This was seriously lacking 
last night. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessaril those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Corinne Doran John Rock Liz Foran Kathie Young John Lucas Accent Sports Kenya Johnson Bryan Connolly Graphics Mike Norbur Chris Weirup Viewpoint Business Mike O'Hara David Clairmont Lab Tech Michael Martin 
T.J. Harris 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday <hrough Friday excep< during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Doctors advertise against health plans, see loss of control over care 
The American Medical Association charged on Monday that the Clinton health plan and other bills before Congress would let government or insurance company bureaucrats, not physicians, decide what care patients get. · 
On the eve of the new session of Congress that could decide the fate of health reform, the doctors' association launched a new $1.6 million print advertising campaign demanding a bigger say for doctors in health reform. 
AMA leaders also expressed concern that "giant, profit-seeking corporations" could come to domi­nate the health system under the types of changes that President Clinton and others are pushing. 
"We're going to be asking doctors all over the country to make information available to patients .. .so that medicine's voice can be heard," Dr. James Todd, the AMA's executive vice president, told a news conference. 
Meanwhile, Republicans kept up a drumbeat of criticism of the Clinton plan. Republicans on the Joint Economic Committee released a forecast by the minority staff economists that the White House bill would add $1 trillion to the deficit by the year 2000. 
Separately, three senior Clinton advisers ­Harold Ickes, Ira Magaziner and George Stephanopoulos -held a peace-making meeting with health insurers whose television ads have angered the president and Hillary Rodham Clinton. 'Bill Gradison, president of the Health Insurance 
Association of America, called the 90-minute ses­
,
sion "very constructive. ' But for now the insurers will keep running the 
Associated Press Poll 
Americans favor health changes 
In your opinion, does the Do you think you
health care system in this personally would have
I country need reforming and better coverage under change, or does it work Clinton's plan or under pretty well the way it is? the current system?



ftl Q.: 



How likely do you think it is that the Congress this year will approve a health care plan that has coverage for everybody? Do you think it is... 



Somewhat . Not 
likely 33o1c Very likely likely at 
o 11% all 21% 

Source: AP national telephone poll of 1,005 adults taken Jan. 14-18 by ICR survey Research Group of Media. Pa., part of AUS Consultants. Margin of sampling error: 3 percentage points. 
plus or minus. Sums may not total 100 percent because of rounding. 
AP 

"Harry and Louise" ads in a dozen cities complaining about Clinton's mandatory health insurance purchasing alliances, Gradison said. 
Clinton gave Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell and House Speaker Thomas Foley a preview of his Tuesday night State of the Union address. Mitchell said Clinton will insist again on "guaranteeing health insurance for every American that cannot be taken away." 
The AMA has its own prescription for achieving universal health coverage, antitrust reform, lower malpractice insurance premiums and other changes to ensure that doctors play a major role in "deciding how health care is delivered and paid for." 
Source: Jackson to offer settlement 
SANTA MONICA 
Michael Jackson will pay at least $10 million to settle a teen-age boy's sexual molestation lawsuit, a source said Monday. The settlement, expected to be announced Tuesday during a hear­ing before Superior Court Judge David Rothman, includes a eight-figure settle­ment, the source told The Associated Press. An exact amount wasn't dis­closed. Recent media reports have put 

the amount between $5 million and $50 million. Jackson's attorney Howard Weitzman wouldn't discuss the case. The boy's lawyer, Larry Feldman, also declined comment. The lawsuit claims that beginning last February Jackson plied the boy, then 13, with lavish gifts and vacations, then seduced him. Jackson, 35, has de­nied the allegations. 
L.A. commuting not as bad as feared 
LOS ANGELES 
Commuters hamstrung by Los Angeles' earthquake­crippled freeway system entered the brave new world of trains, buses and car pools Monday. To their surprise, many found it wasn't as bad as they feared. "It's sad, I know, but maybe this is forcing us to do something that we should have been doing for years," said Dale Lynn Bowman, a first-time passenger on the Metrolink com­muter train. The Jan. 17 quake, which measured 6.6 on the Richter scale, killed 56 people and injured 8,335. 
Midshipmen involved in cheating scandal 
ANNAPOLIS 

Eighty-one Naval Academy students confessed to cheat­ing and as many as 133 midshipmen may have had an advance look at a 1992 electrical engineering test, according to a Navy report released Monday. Most of the midshipmen involved "repeatedly lied until confronted with irrefutable proof of their involvement," said the report, which criticized the Naval Academy's handling of its largest cheating scandal ever. Secretary of the Navy John Dalton removed the academy from further involve­ment in the investigation because of a widespread per­ception among midshipmen that the original investigation was unfair. "The majority of midshipmen interviewed did not feel truth was found, or even seriously sought ..." the report said. 
USDA finds discrimination against farmer 
ROSCOE, Texas 

The warning came early, Robert Williams Jr. says: He wouldn't have an easy time as the only black farmer owning land in Nolan County. "'You got this old farm, I helped you get in,"' Williams says he was told by a Farmers Home Administration official when he bought 349 acres in 1990. "'Son, you standing up there smiling, but you're going to have to fight like hell to keep it."' Williams' cotton crops never flourished on the land he bought using funds from FmHA, the lending arm of the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. He contends the agency's employees in nearby Sweetwater ridiculed him and denied him additional loans and technical guidance 



Tuesday, January 25, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 
Judge orders Packwood Senate to create minority survey 
By ANALISE TAYLOR nority student receiving harass­Adworks purchased a new 
News Writer ing telephone calls by a pizza computer and the three student deliverer. The student was un­run businesses are progressing, 
to give up private diaries 
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Sen. Bob Packwood's per­sonal diaries are "unquestion­ably relevant" to the Senate Ethics Committee and must be provided to the panel, a federal judge ruled Monday. 
U.S. D1stnct 
pnr J u d g e····•····· Thomas Penfield Jackson said he had to "balance Sen. Packwood's expectations 
of privacy · · Senator Bob 
.against the 
E t h i c s Pac~ood 
Committee's interest in examin­ing them for evidence of mis­conduct ..." 
On balance, he said, the com­mittee's subpoena for the diaries must be upheld. 
Jackson found the diaries "unquestionably relevant ...to a constitutionally authorized and properly focused inquiry" by a committee with "jurisdic­tion to investigate allegations of misconduct ..."by members of the Senate. 
The committee had been awaiting the ruling before de­ciding its next moves: whether to expand the probe to include job offers to Packwood's wife and whether to hold public hearings. 
The panel is investigating the Oregon Republican for alleged sexual misconduct, witness in­timidation and obstruction of the probe by Packwood's al­leged alteration of the diaries. 
Jackson ruled the subpoena did not violate Packwood's Fourth Amendment rights against over-broad searches. The committee met legal stan­dards of reasonableness, he found. 
Nor, Jackson concluded, did the committee violate the Oregon Republican's Fifth Amendment right against self­incrimination. Packwood lost that claim when the diaries were "voluntarily committed to paper" before the committee sought them. 
After a talk with Vice President AI Gore and then a
WHY f AI<E ABUS fO fHE BEACH WHEN YOU 
meeting with family members, 
he telephoned the White House 
to say he would accept an offer 
if one were forthcoming. 
CAN SfAY fN ABEACH fi?ONI HOfEL???? 
Anthony Travel's 
"I did not have to be per­suaded to take this job," Perry 
SPRING BREAK 1994 
Packages Options: 
(1) 
Cozumel, Mexico 

(2) 
Cancun, Mexico 

(3) 
Nassau, Bahamas 


Several students have ex­pressed concern about the University's racial discrimina­tion policy as described in DuLac, according to Student Body President Frank Flynn. 
STUDENT SENATE 
The students are concerned that the University is placing more emphasis on the sexual harassment policy than the racial harassment policy, he said. 
Flynn cited incidents of a mi-

sure about who to contact about the harassment, Flynn said. 
"I think it (the issue) is the enforcement of the policy and where you go if you have a problem," he said. 
The Student Senate decided unanimously to create a stu­dent survey for minority stu­dents asking about racial issues on campus. 
"Some minority students have complained about harassment," Flynn said. 
In other Senate news, 
according to Kristie Shafer, stu­dent manager for the student business board. 
ND Video memberships have increased and the management purchased 15 new movies, she said. 
Several University commit­tees have been petitioned to al­low students on the commit­tees, Flynn said. 
Also, off-campus students are asking for a place outside of the Huddle where they can obtain information about on-campus events, he said. 

Clinton picks Perry for Pentagon 
By RON FOURNIER predictions Perry would win Associated Press easy confirmation. Though he is little known to the general pub­WASHINGTON lic, senators dealing with mili­
Filling an awkward gap in his tary issues are familiar with national security team, him from frequent testimony at President Clinton promoted the hearings. Pentagon's No. 2 man to de­Seemingly a reluctant war­fense secretary Monday. He rior, Perry said he told the lauded his nominee, William White House Saturday he could Perry, as "a real pro," a man not say yes at that point be­"you can depend on." cause "I did not want to drive 
The quick reaction from my family into a decision -my Congress was enthusiastic, with decision -without their sup­port." 
said. 
Perry, 66, is to replace outgo­
ing Secretary Les Aspin, whoAll Packages Include: 
announced his resignation un­
8 days I 7 nights Air from Chicago Plus much more!! 
from $478 
ANTHONY TRAVEL ..... ON CAMPUS!! 
Call Today! 631 -7080 ' or stop by in the basement of LaFortune Student Center! 
der pressure from the White House last month. Clinton's first choice to take Aspin's place, Bobby Inman, withdrew last week in a news conference filled with complaints about at­tacks from columnists and law­makers. 
Despite Inman's shocker ­and comments from a handful of other job prospects that they were not interested -Clinton said hiring a new Pentagon chief was easy. 
"It wasn't hard to fill," Clinton said. "I asked Secretary Perry and he said, 'Yes."' 
Perry, who also served in President Carter's Pentagon, is a former engineering professor and mathematician. Unlike Clinton, he is also an Army vet­eran, perhaps positioned to help his commander-in-chief improve relations with military leaders and wrestle with a shrinking Pentagon budget. 
Every Picture a story, donut? 
Happy 22nd Birthday, 
SnoopKa Bambrick! 




The_SY-stem. 
Here's Your Chance To Educate Your Skin ... Tuition is Free. 
Here's your chance to educate your -skin-without laying out a penny. just bring a copy of this ad to the Clinique counter ... have a fast, free skin analysis on the famous Clinique Computer ... and a 3-step, 3-product starter set is yours as long as supplies last. 
HUDSON S 
Available at Hudson's University Park 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tueasday, January 25, 1994 
ACE 
continued from page l 
dioceses in Florida, Georgia, Louisiana or Alabama for a year-long stay. This one-year contract is renewable. The teachers will live in a commu­nal environment with other educators and receive a month­ly stipend, medical insurance and other benefits. Travel expenses will be reimbursed at the end of service. Salaries will vary from $10-$15,000 a year, depending on how much the dioceses can afford. 
The summer before place­ment, the college graduates will participate in a six week teacher training course at Notre Dame conducted by rep­resentatives of the University of Portland. From June 11 to August 1, the new teachers will be instructed on classroom management, foundations of education, human development and learning and general meth­ods. 
After completing this first training course, teachers will have 12 graduate credits to­wards their Masters in Arts in 

SECURITY BEAT 

Teaching (MAT). If the teaching contract is renewed, the educa­tors will return to Notre Dame for more summer courses. After the second session, some of the teachers will have completed the basic requirements for the MAT. 
This year, ACE is committed to sending at least 27 students to the dioceses, although more students may be used. After vis­iting each diocese this month, it was clear to Scully that the need for teachers is very great. 
"They want more than we can send," said Scully. 
Although ACE currently in­cludes only Notre Dame stu­dents, the organization hopes to involve other universities and dioceses in the future. The University of Portland is already planning on joining ACE next year. 
"We will continue to expand to the best (universities) whether they be Catholic or not," said Scully. 
Applications for ACE service are due Feb. 1. Interviews will be conducted from Feb. 15­March 25, and successful appli­cants will be notified on March 31. 
Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is now accepting applications for its next three entering classes. (September 1994, January 1995, April 1995) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
• 
Approx. 2-3 years of college in a a life or health science degree program. 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. Amore competitive G.P.A. is favored. 

• 
Apersonal interest in acareer as aprimary care physician. 


Northwestern offers: 

• 
Aprofessional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12:1. 

• 
Awell-rounded education in Basic and Clinical Sciences, Diagnosis, X-ray, and Chiropractic. 

• 
Full accreditation by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 


-~  Call: 1-800-888-4777 or  
~,\,,,.l3  Write: Director ofAdmissions  
' ,,, ;·,;,..•''  2501 West 84th Street, Minneapolis, MN 55431  

Debates 
continued from page l 
derclassmen to familiarize them with the clubs, organiza­tions and life at Saint Mary's in order to further student in­volvement. 
Involving underclassmen is key in the Sheedy/McNulty plat­form as well. They are inter­ested in fostering programs such as major-a-month and Big/Little Sisters in order to promote interaction between the classes. 



Comps 
continued from page 1 
fessor of communications and part of the Center for Academic Innovation group, is also heav­ily involved with the senior comp investigation. He recently wrote a proposal looking at current comp requirements. 
"There is no suggestion of 

"It is most important to reach out to the freshmen and sopho­mores that slipped through the cracks their first year," Sheedy said. "They have a lot of fresh ideas to offer and should not be intimidated about getting involved." 
Promoting the use of facili­ties such as Dalloways and the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's is another method of increasing involvement on cam­pus, according to El-Ganzouri. 
"In order to allow Saint Mary's to stand on its own, we need to offer more events on our campus," Peters said. 
A final important issue de­
eliminating comps. They are special to Saint Mary's and we feel that they help to put our graduates ahead (of other grad­uates) when applying for grad­uate school or in job searches," Pauley said. 
"We are not criticizing the comps but we do realize that some comps are much more demanding than others and the amount of credits for each de­partment comp varies," he said. 




JUNIORS 
To: All Juniors Planning to Apply to Health Professional Schools 
First Meeting 
Date: Wednesday, January 26, Time: 7:00 p.m. Place: 127 Nieuwland Science 
PLEASE MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO ATTEND 

• 
bated last night involved in­creasing community service at Saint Mary's. The Sheedy/McNulty platform stressed its support for the Saint Mary's Christian Service Center (SMCSC) sponsored by the Sister's of the Holy Cross. 
They are also interested in recognizing those student vol­unteers by giving academic credit for service projects. 
The El-Ganzouri!Peters plat­form is interested in expanding programs such as "Adopt-a­Nun" in order to increase ser­vice and reinforce contact with the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"We are looking at the fun­damental questions and trying to facilitate conversation be­tween students and faculty on the senior comps." 
Currently, each departmental comp is determined by the fac­ulty. However, the comp stan­dards are not set in concrete. Recently, the communications, religious studies and social work departments have revised their own comp requirements. 
• 
1994 Hall 


Auditions for the readers at the JPW mass are-
TUESDAY, JAN 25 
& 

WEDNESDAY, JAN 26 4:00 -6:00 PM AT THE BASILICA 
MAKE YOUR PARENTS PROUD! 
• 
• 

Tuesday, January 25, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 


Japanese reforms appear shaky 
By PETER LANDERS 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's government. shak­en by a crucial defeat over political reforms, was battered again Monday when stock prices plunged and chances for compromise on the reforms appeared to lessen. 
The Tokyo stock market's benchmark Nikkei Stock Average fell 4.9 percent, its largest drop since August 1991, on fears that political troubles will delay government action to stimulate the struggling econ­omy. 
The political turmoil also could cause trouble with the United States by slowing efforts to reach an accord on reducing Japan's trade surplus. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen warned Sunday that Washington was sticking to its Feb. 11 deadline for a deal and hinted that punitive measures could be taken against Japanese imports if no accord was reached. 
"From here on in, politics determines everything ...I'm afraid we haven't seen the bot­tom yet," said Shigemi Nonaka, managing director at Sakura Asset Management Co. 
Hosokawa vowed when he 
took office in August to pass 
reforms aimed at ending the 
scandals involving illicit contri­
butions and bribery that have 
plagued Japanese politics. He 
promised to "take responsibili­
ty" if he failed -a phrase in­
terpreted as meaning he would 
either resign or call new elec-

GRADUATE STUDENTS WANTED 
The Graduate Student Union is currently accepting nominations for GSU President and Vice President for 1994-1995. Interested persons should call the GSU office at 631-69 )3 before February l. 

REWARDS 
YOUR FUTURE BEGINS HERE 

250 Programs 
for Professional & Personal Development 
• Personal Computers 
• GMAT, GRE. LSAT Review Courses 
• English as a Second Language 
• 
Quality Management • Administrative Assistant/ Office Management • Human Resources • Customer Service • Certified Financial Planner 

• 
CEBS • and much more! Most Classes Start Week of Feb.14 


(Computer classes start earlier) 
For Your FREE Catalog, Call 237-4261 

IlEB 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 

SoUTH BEND 
CoNTINUING EnuanoN 1700 MisHAwAKA AVE., Soum BEND 

tions. 
Thus, it was a major setback when the upper house of Parliament voted Friday to re­ject bills to ban corporate con­tributions to individual politi­cians and change the way Parliament's more powerful lower house is elected. 
"If political reform is shelved at this point, Japan's interna­tional reputation will suffer a mortal blow and the people's trust in politics is sure to dive," said Satoshi Arai, the policy chief of Hosokawa's Japan New Party. 
Hosokawa now has just two 
ways to fulfill his pledge to pass 
reforms by the end of 
Parliament's current session 
Saturday. He can either work 
out a compromise with the op­
position Liberal Democrats or 
attempt to override the upper 
house in a lower-house vote. 
The first possibility appeared 
to fade Monday when negotia­
tors from the governing coali­
tion and the Liberal Democrats 
failed to agree on naming a 
committee from the lower and 
upper houses to discuss a com­
promise. 
Many Liberal Democrats ­
more than half, according to 
the estimate of LOP legislator 
Junichiro Koizumi -op-pose 
Hosokawa's plan for single-dis­
trict elections for the lower 
house. making a compromise 
unlikely. 


The Observer/Colleen Moore 
Drawing shades 

Pasquerilla West resident freshman Beth Zumbach works on a pro­ject combining the use of shading and lines for the Basic Drawing class she is taking this semester. 
Spring Break SetninaJrs March 6-12, 1994 Experiential/ Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR ~~LService Learning at one of nine sites in the Appalachian region ~~~~ 11 ·,~One-credit Theology Information meeting: Tues., Jan. 25, 7:30-8:00 PM MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR Work in the fields with migrant workers Assist agencies that serve migrants One-credit Theology Information meeting: Tues. Jan. 25, 8:00-8:30 PM WASHINGTON SEMINAR National Service: Institutional Questions and Future Potentials? Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Governtment Information meeting: Tues., Jan. 25, 6:30-7:00PM  
Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Jan. 28, 1994  

-

r 
--~---~--~ --~-~---,_,..---~ -~ 
~ 
page 6 


ffie.)CLC:o 





Sewatna...,.. 
May 9 -26, 1994 in Oaxaca, Mexico (leaving time for summer work) 
Service-learning cosponsored by Maryknoll 
One credit Theology 
Spanish not required 
Applications at the CSC 
Information Meeting: 
Jan. 25,1994 4:00PM 
at the Center (optional) 

The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, January 25, 1994 
UN official urges Bosnian strikes 
By MAUD BEELMAN 
Associated Press 

SARAJEVO 
The future of Europe is at stake in Bosnia and only swift, retaliatory air strikes will end aggression by the warring fac­tions, the U.N. commander in former Yugoslavia said Monday. 
By contrast, the U.N. secre­tary-general questioned NATO's willingness to use force despite the recent renewal of its threat to stage air attacks to protect U.N. areas. He warned that the conflict could spread with outside intervention, and urged more diplomacy to solve it. 
The differing views came dur­ing what the departing .U.N. commander for Bosnia, Lt. Gen. Francis Briquemont of Belgium, has called a crisis for the U.N. peacekeeping mission in Bosnia. They illustrated the lack of consensus on how to end Europe's worst bloodshed since 1945. 
Gen. Jean Cot of France, com­mander of all U.N. troops in the former Yugoslav federation, used the transfer of Briquemont's command to Lt. Gen. Sir Michael Rose of Britain as a platform to reiterate his view that only military action by other nations can stop the war. 
Fighting has escalated since peace talks failed again last week. U.N. peacekeepers them­selves and the six U.N.-desig­nated "safe zones" in Bosnia are under threat. 
"The problem is very simple. In case of a massive attack against the safe areas or any­where else, the only means that we have of reacting against this -of reacting immediately -is close air support," Cot told reporters. 
"Immediately means three minutes. That would be perfect. Half an hour would be nice. But it's certainly not more than that." 
He spoke at Sarajevo's U.N.­controlled airport, a symbol of what outsiders have and have not achieved after 21 months of war that has killed more than 200,000 people and made 2.7 million people dependent on outside aid. 

Only the international airlift through the airport keeps Bosnia's capital alive. But Bosnian Serb artillery and some troops of Bosnia's Muslim-led government ring the runway and can hit planes and tarmac at will. 
U.N. 
officials say all the Bosnian factions -Muslims, Serbs and Croats -frequently interfere with aid convoys. 

Cot, who is being recalled by 


U.N. 
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali because he went public with their dispute over calling for Western air strikes, said the stakes are high. 


"We must succeed because it seems to me impossible for those who are waging this war not to realize that they have crossed the threshold of sanity in a civilized land," he said. "The survival of their peoples is at stake, and beyond them, the future of the whole of Europe." 

China to discuss abuses of rights 
By RITA BEAMISH 
Associated Press 

PARIS 
China pledged Monday to dis­cuss U.S. concerns about 235 political prisoners, a step to­ward meeting human rights conditions set by President Clinton, U.S. officials said. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher characterized his meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen as posi­tive. However, he added, "We have not made enough progress to justify my saying there has been significant overall progress." 
The meeting was the latest in a series of human rights dis­cussions that are a precursor to 
U.S. renewal of China's favor­able trade access to U.S. mar­kets. Christopher and Qian agreed to intensify their talks as a June 3 deadline ap­proaches for Clinton's decision on renewing most-favored-na­tion, or MFN, status for China. 
Qian told reporters, "We don't believe the question of human rights should be linked to the question of trade, but we are ready to discuss all these issues." 
Details of the meeting were provided by senior U.S. officials traveling with Christopher. 

China agreed for the first time to discuss in detail 235 specific detainee cases cited by the Clinton administration, many relating to the 1989 pro­democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, said Assistant Secretary of State John Shattuck. Not included were 100 Tibetan cases on which the United States is seek­ing information. 
Qian also promised to re­spond in detail on the cases of nine relatives of dissidents who have been barred from emi­grating. 





SAINT 
Y'S 


JUNIORS­
ADDRESS ENVELOPE AND DROP OFF PICTURES MONDAY -THURSDAY AT HAGGAR FRONT DESIZ FOR JUNIOR MOM'S WEEI<END 





BUSINESS 
Tuesday, January 25, 1994 page 7 
FACULTY BUSINESS FORUM 
Ne-w econon1ics minister lashes out 



No tin1e for cheap talk in Russia 
By IGOR GRAZIN 
Professional Specialist, College of Business Administration 
Although a person may look sophisticated and brilliant when theorizing like a Western econo­mist, there is no substitute for using one's own experience and intelligence in solving problems. 
I mean that the economic policy that was car­ried out in Russia in accordance with the text­books and Western advisers is over. Thank God. 
Yegor Gaidar, Boris Fyodorov, and Grigory Yavlinsky, each one a follower and supporter of Western ideology, are out of the economic poli­cymaking in Russia. 
Their made-in-Harvard type approach did not cure the ills of the newly opened Eastern European economies, and instead served only to bring the left forces back to power in Poland. 
Meanwhile, the Estonian reform success, which was described as "a financial miracle" by the London Times, came about thanks to the courage of Estonian financiers and bankers who ignored any and all recommendations from the IMF. 
It seems that the time has passed for what Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Havel termed "soft ideas for hard currency." 
The latest events in Russia have reiterated the elementary lesson that economics is not simply an abstract brain exercise. Economics and its science is a daily life for millions of people who must live it, textbooks notwithstanding. 
It is one thing to sit in Cambridge, Massachusetts and calculate how many people are standing in lines for food in Russia and quite a different thing to actually stand in those lines. 
Ironically enough, even the Western world did not believe in the wisdom of its own gurus. The economic assistance provided for the reforms in Russia actually remained nonexistent. Humanitarian aid and reform assistance are technically different: feeding the needy and reducing inflation are very different procedures. 
Talk is cheap, and Jots of cheap talk can never 
produce a single valuable deed. 
Russia, a nation that even today is capable of 
it, can't help herself, because markets for her 
products remain closed due to discriminatory 
tariffs, administrative regulations, and the like. 
It is hard to believe, but Russia does not need a 
single penny. 
It took two years for Russia to comprehend 
that there are no universal rules or infallible 
teachers in this world that can solve all of her 
problems. 
With this knowledge comes the understanding 
that it would help to utilize the Russian people's 
own experience and abilities to cope with the 
present problems. 
Now, instead of continuing to follow the the primitive textbook truths uncritically, Russia has started to take her own way to a better future. This future will combine a free market with strong social policies, communal traditions with respect for individual freedoms, and centralism with democratic values. 
The Russian people can not foresee what will 
come of this. On the other hand, who can? 
Russia will Jearn. And although she will 
remain politically and culturally unique, she still 
will be a member of the community of free and 
democratic nations that she has decided to join. 
By DEBORAH SEWARD 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Russia's new economics minister lashed out Monday at reformers for refusing to join the government and predicted high inflation in January. The key post of finance minister remained in question. 
A spokeman for Boris Yeltsin said the president had not accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Boris Fyodorov. Fyodorov, a top reformer whose fate has come to represent Russia's commitment to market reforms, quit after a Cabinet shake­up favoring conservatives who advo­cate a slower pace of reform. 
The new Cabinet has signaled its intention to impose tighter govern­ment control over the economy and increase industrial and agricultural production by allocating greater sub­sidies to those sectors. 
New Economics Minister Alexander Shokhin, Russia's top debt negotiator, had harsh words for reformers, including his predecessor Yegor Gaidar and Fyodorov. 
"It is bad that several key figures in the Cabinet, including Yegor 

Gaidar, have decided to relieve themselves of responsibility for the course they pursued over the last four months," said Shokhin. 
"They are doing everything to blame the reorganized government for all the consequences, including negative consequences, of reforms," said Shokhin, who began his career with the Soviet state planning orga­nization, Gosplan, but has at times sided with the reformers. 
Fyodorov is largely credited with bringing runaway inflation down to budget deficits, inflation and taxa­tion. Shokhin, as economics minister, will deal more directly with econom­ic policy, such as industry subsidies. 
Fyodorov submitted his resignation last week when Yeltsin and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin named a new government dominated by Soviet-era managers. 
After a 30-minute meeting Monday with Yeltsin, Chernomyrdin said Yeltsin had not accepted Fyodorov's resignation and the decision rested with the president. 

MARKET ROUNDUP 
10/1/93 11/1/93 12/1/93 111/94 2/1/94 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT 
Business Writer 
Economic data for the fourth quar­ter of 1994 is encouraging but not a definitive predictor of sustained growth according to two economics professors at Notre Dame. 
While the current evidence sup­ports the notion that the nation's consumers are more confident in the economy, it may be that the reports are seasonal at best. 
Indexes of consumer confidence run by the University of Michigan indicate that consumer confidence increased significantly this month, drastically different from similar indicators run last January. 
Whereas a strong fourth quarter in 1992 was followed by a weak first quarter in 1993, the fourth quarter­first quarter transition this year was stronger. 
The economy shows a "pretty big percent change because you're com­ing from a poor time" said Notre Dame professor of economics Thomas Swartz. 
Instead of viewing the transition from the end to the beginning of the year, it is more informative to view the data in between, "from Christmas to Christmas," Swartz said. 
"(The recovery) is not getting good economic support from the rest of the world," said Swartz. 
Citing that foreign markets are not currently experiencing the same level of economic recovery that is occurring on the domestic scene, Swartz said that, "If we're going to continue to climb, we're going to 12 percent for December. He has warned that the new government will increase spending and send inflation soaring. 
But Shokhin told reporters that Fyodorov and Gaidar were to blame for an inflation rate that will be "much higher" this month for post­poning payment of some government debts until the first quarter of 1994. 
Russia is one of few countries with both finance and economics minis­ters. As finance minister, Fyodorov has handled monetary issues such as 

Professors wary of predicting sustained economic growth 
have to do it by ourselves." 
According to professor of eco­nomics Martin Wolfson, the long run picture in "not totally clear," even though the recent fourth quarter data are a "positive sign." 
While consumer optimism plays a significant role in any economic recovery, it is only half of the pic­ture. 
With interest rates at a historical low, "Companies have been using low interest rates to pay down their outstanding debt levels." 
Until there is a widespread "gener­al belier· that the economy is on a solid trend upwards, firms will hold off on investing more if they feel that there will not be sustained consumer confidence and an increased demand for their products or services. 
"Interest rates alone are not suffi­cient for a sustained expansion," said Wolfson. 
Wolfson noted that certain sectors of the economy are still prime tar­gets for economic humbling. "(The economy) needs adjustment in high markets such as real estate" in order to make current projections more convincing. 
The increased level of activity sur­rounding the holiday shopping sea­son "should not show up in the num­bers," said Wolfson, because such numbers are "seasonally adjusted." 
Instead of reveling in the success of one good season, analysis ought to be postponed until the end of the first quarter of 1994 to determine whether or not consumer purchases at the end of 1993 will be indicative of a long term attitude. 


.----------~----------~ 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, January 25, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Edih.i-....• ~.~ ....... Meredith McCullough Advenising Manager .....•........•.•.... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editoo~.: ...........................Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ..•................. George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Sporn  631-4543  Sysrems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


EDITORIAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ofsalad dressing and ND: An invitation to struggle 
•yogurt opttons  Dear Editor: There are still times in which I must pinch myself to  buying tickets in order to get home, and I had to worry about buying all of my books.  ceive an allowance at the end of each month from my par­ents? What is it like to have  
see if I am really here. My  In essence, I had to learn to  free summers and not worry  
Peppercorn versus strawberry Dannon yogurt. Those are the  dream did  come  true; the  survive,  with  only  work­ about finding a summer job  
choices facing the Saint Mary's students today as they head to the ballot box to vote for next year's student government leaders. The Observer regretfully abstains. Last night's forum wasn't really a debate. It was an agreement. Neither ticket -Noha El-Ganzouri and Melissa Peters or Deborah Sheedy and Angela McNulty -presented a coherent plan for the  invitation was real-1 really am at Notre Dame. All of my hard work paid off and I made my dream a reality. From the day I stepped on campus, I knew I was at the right place. Or was I?  study. You see, since my experience as a Notre Dame student has been a little different; I feel that there are certain issues and questions which need to be addressed. In the beginning my finan­ in order to pay the bills for the previous academic year, and save enough just to get back? What is it like to only stress about finals and not have the double stress of finals and the rest of the tu­ 
coming year. Both proved misinformed on several counts and fright­ After three years I have  cial-aid package looked great.  ition balance ­ so I could re­ 
eningly unaware of the process of achieving change at Saint Mary's.  come  to realize that this is  I could get through without  ceive my grades at home?  
And all four very polite women appeared to agree on just about any­ indeed a wonderful place. I  starving and I assumed that  Why do I have to lie to my  
thing and everything.  have been taught to think for  things would only get better.  parents by reassuring them  
The debate's most ridiculous-and telling-discussion involved  myself and have truly cher­ Little did I know that books  that every situation here is  
dining hall developments.  ished the value of an educa­ were  extremely expensive  great? I am  not however,  
"I keep hearing that Notre Dame has more flavors than we do," said El-Ganzouri of the College's yogurt selection. Just a few min­utes earlier, McNulty said she would work for more salad dressing variety. For the several dozen students present, the exchange certainly indicated little understanding of Saint Mary's image problem.  tion. I have come to realize that my invitation meant that I deserved to be here. I worked just as diligently as the others to earn my place at Notre Dame. And because of that hard work, I was offered  and I had to come up with registration fees and hall taxes. In my first year I real­ized that I would have to buy sweaters and a winter coat, but again I assumed things would get better, after all this  wishing to live someone else's life or be someone else. I am extremely proud of who I am and where I come from. I am proud to realize that some­times we must fight and struggle a little more.  
The two tickets were either artful dodgers or just plain un­ an invitation to be a part of  was my first year. In my sec­ Why am I made to feel like  
informed on more important questions. On issues from the proposed  an exceptional education, and  ond year; I realized that my  the step-child at the banquet  
Christian Service Center to El-Ganzouri's study days proposal, both  become part of the Notre  loans had increased, some  table when I ask for  a  little  
showed little knowledge of recent student government history.  Dame family. It was an invita­ were deleted, and expenses  help? Why am I made to feel  
The unfortunate reality of all this is that today one of these two  tion to feast at one of the best  were increasing. But it was  like I must resolve my finan­ 
tickets will be elected. The Observer editorial board offers the fol­ banquet tables. What I did  part of my sacrifice and I was  cial burdens? And why isn't  
lowing advice for the winners. First, changing policy at Saint Mary's requires a three step process that has worked in recent years: exhaustively researching an issue, surveying the students and presenting a coherent plan to the administration. Second, it's just a fact that students expect the president to help them get new stairmasters and maybe even better food in the dining  not realize however, was how much harder I would have to work to stay here. I am speaking about more than academics, I am speak­ing about being an outsider in an extremely expensive "Catholic Disneyland". At  determined to make it; I could handle the twelve-hour work­study. This was after all a learning experience. Well, as I approach the end of my third year I have con­cluded that lately all I have been worried about is money.  anyone meeting me at least a quarter of the way? Why am I made to feel that because I have received a great gift (education) I need only to be appreciative? And finally, why did you invite me to this banquet, knowing that I was  
hall. But it is also the role of student government to take a part in  times I still wonder how I  At first I thought that the  not going to be able to fit the  
the long-term evolution of the College.  have made it this far.  worrying was part of a sacri­ expensive "family" mold?  
Developing a service center, for example, not only gives students a  In  the  beginning,  the  fice  which  came  with the  Why did you not save me the  
chance to help others, but also allows the Sisters of the Holy Cross  difficulties  were an adjust­ acceptance of the invitation. I  humiliation, and respect me  
to continue to leave their mark on the College. Cooperation among  ment. I had to adjust to the  never  had anything  come  enough to let me know that I  
women from both schools affords them a means of communicating mutual interests and working together -from addressing sexual harassment to breaking down the stereotypes that riddle attitudes on both sides. Finally, the debate offered one other indicator: that students know what they want. The few in attendance asked intelligent and salient  weather, distance from home, friends, etc. But, for the first time in my life I was on my own. For many, freedom meant being able to go and do what you wanted, for me it meant enormous responsibil­ easy to me -so I assumed I could manage. I had been responsible for paying bills in the past, so this couldn't be any different. Now I find my­self wondering what things would be like if my situation  was not welcome, and need not ask for help, financial or otherwise? Why, after three years of struggle do I feel like I still don't belong? NORMA HERNANDEZ  
IXJWN 71-18 RIVeR OF W{){3S INV!5'37VR JAM£S MCfXJU641.. E3U'f5 


questions. Ifonly they could expect the same from their representatives. 
DOONESBURY 
rM fi!{)/ANDHEPl&Y, YOUR.6U/{}& !T'5 1982. CJ.JN7DN PAL. AND CO­
KNOWN A? IJIJ..IJn;flliJ.~rPRJ~;,; A "5l813PY'' /...ITTU3 ARKANSAS 
5tH.., MADISON 6UA!<AN7Y... 
I 
ity. I now had to pay all of my were different. Junior bills, I had to worry about What would it be like to re-Pasquerilla East 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Wm-1/N A YbAR., TH8 grAT8'5 
Bt4Ni<JNG Rli6UlATOR. INFOf?MS 
C/..IN7VN OFMC!Xll3At'3 5KJO/JY 
''Bethankful that only one 
8ANI<JN6 P!<ACTICES. atNTON fXJ/55 NOTH!N(3l 
of them can win." 

•NOTHIN6/ I 
--Bumper sticker from the 1960 Nixon/Kennedy Presidential election 
--~ 

-----------~-------------­


VIEWPOINT 
page 9 

Tuesday, January 25, 1994 SAINT MARY'S ELECTION SUPPLEMENT 
NOHA EL-GANZOURI AND MELISSA PETERS 
The titles of Student Body flee, becoming aware of majors, President and Vice President of how to use the computer and Academic Affairs, represent library resources, how to study hard work, leadership, dedica­for tests, what activities are tion, commitment, and confi­offered on campus in both the dence. As representatives of the social atmosphere as well as Saint Mary's student gov­the academic one, and what ernment we hold dear these committees exist on the cam­qualities. pus. 
As leaders we 
Another feel it is impor­important tant to listen to issue involves the needs of the increasing the Saint Mary's activities on community and the Saint respond to Mary's campus those needs. It and the fees is because of for them (just this that we this year the have centered student activi­our platform on EI-Ganzouri and Peters ties fee was 
what we believe the student body needs and deserves. Our goals include increasing the student's role in student body issues. This need to be effectively communicated through the use of publicity. 
We propose the creation of a large calendar hung in dining hall announcing the scheduled events for each day of the month. This will include the dates and times of club meet­ings, speakers, class activities, movies, bands and other events of interest. We believe student involvement would increase greatly by simply informing them about the events occur­ring on campus. 
Secondly, we want to offer a one credit class for under­classmen that would increase their participation on campus. This class would be set up by academic affairs in conjunction with faculty and would inform the students about such things as the career development of-
increased sub­staantially -over 200 percent). We need to offer more activities for students to get involved in on campus, and make Saint Mary's stand alone. The reason why we rely so heavily on Notre Dame is because they offer great activities. 
We need to do the same for Saint Mary's. Some of our goals include increasing the activities at Dalloways. In the past this place has been a popular hang out for students. We need to in­crease the student involvement there by offering more activities at such an inviting and conve­nient setting. We need more bands to play during the Dalloways coffee hours. On other nights we can offer a co­median to perform or a magi­cian to entertain students. These suggestions are only a few that if implemented would provide great activities for Saint Mary's students, without leav­ing campus. 
DEBORAH SHEEDY AND ANGELA MCNULTY 
As the time for campaigning winds down, a few issues re­main. We have focused our campaign on three crucial ide­als: building community, devel­oping identity, and improving the social atmosphere on cam­pus. We have taken these ideals and created very specific pro­gram suggestions as a means of achieving them. Proposals include Major-A-Month presen­tations, Big/Little Sister assign­ments, a regular social exchange with Wabash College, and the establishment of an all school video library. 
The first two suggestions highlight our interest and ap­preciation for the knowledge and experience seniors have 

borah Sheedy, a junior LeMans Hall. is a histo* ry/sociology major. 
Government Experience: Hall Council President council member on both Dame Relations and Committees 
Mind· Conference Orientation Group Leader Varsity Volleybaill ·· 
I commend and thank those who put great efforts into the Antostal week. Unfortunately, poor weather conditions in the past have not allowed for maxi­mum participation. Let us not forget those hot summer days during the first weeks of school. 
During one of those weekends we could possibly offer a Fall Festival that would allow Saint Mary's to share what it has to offer socially, thus hopefully improving relations with Notre Dame students as well as offer much excitement on campus. This weekend could entail a huge picnic on the library green for students and faculty. The baseball fields offer extensive room to accommodate games like those at amusement parks where prizes are offered. We would also provide karaoke booths, hot dog stands, fortune tellers, and establish a real car­nival for the weekend. 
Finally our third most impor­tant goal involves strengthening relations with our professors. At a small college we should take advantage being able to get to know our professors bet­ter, outside the academic class­room. This would be accom­plished by sponsoring faculty and student events. These events include, offering tea time at Dalloways where teachers and students can socialize in a relaxed atmosphere. 
We could offer a picnic with faculty that would involve relay games and tournaments where the teachers and students would work together. With such a small college, we should take advantage of the opportunity we have in establishing a stronger relationship with our professors. 
accumulated over their four years at Saint Mary's. This ap­preciation can be developed without overlooking the will­ingness and enthusiasm fresh­men can contribute to the col­lege community. By making complete use of each student's! class' unique qualities, student leaders can improve efficiency and make better use of campus resources. 
The Sheedy/ McNulty ticket reflects the distinct needs each class has by personifying a va­riety of different majors, _inter­ests, and backgrounds. Members of our campaign com­mittee included various class representatives and residents from each dorm on campus. Our platform was then con­structed using the collective concerns voiced in this meeting. We feel that this diversity, incorporated into our platform, is one of our strongest assets. 
The future of Saint Mary's depends upon successful com­munication between different class members and dorm lead­ers. We believe the success we have enjoyed on Le Mans Hall Council this year can be repro­duced on a larger scale. Effective leadership skills are not exclusive to a certain title or position, but can developed in any number of situations with hard work and dedication. Both Angela and I share experi­ence and willingness. 
The identity of Saint Mary's College leading out of the sesquicentennial year depends largely on which direction stu­
a1 Dillners 
~Nun 

iPg Notre Dame/Saint sRelations 
ow do yof4 propose to 
prove relations between '$tli1tt. Mary's and Notre Da'me? 
«~ ..byincreasing activities~ l;jUch as bands at Dalloway's, 
...· ··::.·::. ,.· .·· <:.<'·.....: '··· :··., 

the Fall Fest Carnival and 
=::::< . . ··:=.. :: ... ;·::··: ··.· 

movies ~ on the Saint Mary• s oti.~tAettvitteJl · . ... ... . ~~JfipU$ to allow. gr~ater Toa .·· ...·· · -••-...· . .·.···· ·-·-·· involvement from the NotreInte. .ona.I··.· SN!;terH )J~me student." .Organization c;a.mpus Band. . . . .. . . ...... !f.ow do you propose to 

Lead role ip,Steel~agnoUas'' improve the social life on the '$aim Mary's campus? 
"i..ifw~ offer the previously mentioned activities as well as increasing the awareness o 
. issyes on campus." 
How do you propose to start a full~time Christian Service ·Center? 

. $e!)qulc~[lteriJ:ii~l .• Co~mittee ..·· ·· Chair 9fUttb);;,Sib$ vveek~lld · · ·· ··· 
Melissa Peters and I would like to see these goals accom­plished to continue the great success of Saint Mary's College. Both Melissa and I have expe­rience in leadership roles. We are both currently on the Board of Governance. I am currently the President of the Junior Class and served as treasure of Le Mans Hall. My running mate is a member of the academic council. 
Together these experiences 
dent body members choose for it. We are excited by the prospect of a Christian Service Center and possible establish­ment of a women's issue ori­ented organization. Both may serve to cement the traditional identity of our college, as well as prepare it 

for future de­
this relationship mands. is not exclusive. 
Finally, the T h e social atmos-Sheedy/McNulty phere on Saint ticket proposes Mary's campus that Saint must be Mary's explore addressed. other colleges, Poor atten-particularly dance at sever-those that share al SMC spon-Sheedy and McNulty our concerns. 
".J would like to see more vol­unteers at homeless shelters ~ll.d such, but· the fees to pro· '\~!de tra11sportation is some­
have prepared us for the work that lies ahead. Our ideas and commitments are clearly en­hanced by our extensive expe­rience. It is because of this that we are confident and commit­ted to serve the Saint Mary's community effectively and suc­cessfully as Student Body President and Vice President of Academic Affairs. 
NOHA EL-GANZOURI 
Presidential candidate 
MELISSA PETERS 
Vice-presidential candidate 

sire to offer more alternatives to students. Our relationship with Notre Dame has opened numerous opportunities to SMC students that would otherwise be unavailable. We strongly support the positive interaction that takes place between cam­puses. However, 
sored events have led to ques­tions about the type of pro­gramming offered. We strongly suggest that Student Activities eliminate some of the more unpopular programs offered, to make room for major social events with big name entertain­ers. 
We have suggested the cre­ation of a campus video library and installation of cable as a more consistent source of en­tertainment and educational programming, especially in light of recent weather condi­tions. The benefits of creating a video library or installing cable are not restricted to a certain time or date like many other events. Student Activities can then provide a regular alterna­tive to other week­end/weeknight programming. 
Our interest in Wabash College is also rooted in a de-Wabash is an example of just one. We could also investigate other Catholic women's col­leges, or single-sexed learning institutions to examine how they meet the social and acade­mic needs of their students. 

In closing, we would like to take this opportunity to thank all the people that have worked to make this campaign possible, as well as the numerous people who opened their doors and offered their time to listen to our ideas. 
A campaign message would not be complete without one fi­nalreminder: "Go for the Gold, Vote SHEEDY/McNULTY for Student Body President and Vice President!!!" Thanks. 
DEBORAH SHEEDY 
Presidential candidate 
ANGELA MCNULTY 
Vice-presidential candidate 

Gmrer1rtm1ent Experience: . . . 
Hall Council .J!ofl'doyoupropose LmnmtlttE~e Chairwoman jull~time Christian .'H!rlJl:cet '"''""''..,.Council member Center? · ···· · · 
Hall Late Night ~';;;the CSC IDl'vmnic Representative .. tencyin .:Al"vn:A 


ACC~NT 
page 10 Tuesday, January 25, 1993 
SCREEN SCENE JIM DOWD 


Photos courtesy TriStar Pictures 

Left: Andrew Beckett (Hanks) finds he has the support of his family during his court trial. Top: Denzel Washington plays a com­pelling lawyer seeking justice for those who fall victim of AIDS. 
Prepare yourself before you see Philadelphia. This ftlm brilliantly tackles the challenging subjects of AIDS, homo­sexuality, and death. It takes risks and boldly goes where no film has gone before. This movie had to be made and it does wonders for the American ftlm industry. It should win several Oscars. 
From the elaborate opening sequence, it was clear that Philadelphia would be a powerful film. The sequence scans through the city of brotherly love show­ing us realistic images: real people lead­ing real lives. 
It is shot with a pseudo-documentary style and is a grand example of filmic realism. The opening is enhanced by Bruce Springsteen's ballad "Streets of 
Philadelphia 
A "Four Dome" movie 


Philadelphia," the only song he has writ­ten and performed for a movie. 
The plot of Philadelphia is remarkably uncomplicated. It traces part of the life of Andrew Beckett (Tom Hanks) who is a respected attorney with a prestigious law firm. He is eventually fired when the firm discovers that he has AIDS. 
Determined to defend his professional reputation, Andrew hires fierce person­al-injury attorney Joe Miller (Denzel 

The PhiladelphiaStory: 
Hanks and Washington tell it well 
Washington) to represent him as he sues his former firm for wrongful termina­tion. Philadelphia thus becomes a court­room drama pitting the firm against Beckett and Miller in a truly heart-ren­dering struggle. 
Philadelphia is the first major motion picture to directly deal with AIDS. Some of the material is shocking but essential. Our society must become more tolerant and sensitive to AIDS victims. 
This film is not just about social injus­tice and AIDS. It also openly depicts homosexual issues and one man's catharsis from extreme prejudice to tol­erance. Joe Miller is transformed by Andrew Beckett. He learns to not only accept gays but even befriend them. 
Philadelphia prospers from the amaz­ing hand of director Jonathan Demme (Silence of the Lambs.) Demme treats the controversial topics with unassum­ing tenderness. He is not preachy in a film that intends to be. Instead, he makes his point artistically. Demme directs in a predominantly documentary style with multiple shots and continuous camera movement. 
However, he blends some avant-garde techniques in several key scenes. In par­ticular, Demme depicts Beckett dancing with his IV as he acts out and operatic aria. The sequence is tremendously moving as Hanks' gestures evoke the relentless pain and suffering of AIDS. 
Tom Hanks has finally graduated from comedy. This is his first great dramatic performance. His Bec~ett is ambitious, optimistic, and loving. He is an honest 


Realistic fiction 
Renowned author Chuck Wachtel kicks off lecture series 
ByMARADMS 
Assistant Accent Editor 
The crowd in the Hesburgh Library Lounge will hear the words of modern realistic fic­tion tonight as critically acclaimed novelist Chuck Wachtel opens Notre Dame's spring reading series, accord­ing to Valerie Sayers, director of the Notre Dame creative writing program. 
The creative writing program is planning the lecture series this spring in conjunction with the English department, and speakers will include mostly modern novelists, short story writers, and poets. Wachtel, tonight's kickoff speaker, is noted for the integrity, authen­ticity and vividness of his nov­els, Sayers said. 
"In terms of writing about America, you could say that he's one of the most realistic," she said. 
Wachtel, now associate pro­fessor of English at Purdue University, where he teaches creative writing, has previously taught at Sarah Lawrence College, New York University, and Skidmore College. His nov­els, "Joe the Engineer", and The Gates, were reviewed and praised around the country, although Wachtel had previous­ly only been well-known in the New England area. 
Publisher's Weekly called "Joe the Engineer" an "aston­ishingly fresh first novel," and the New York Times described it as a "fresh, realistic look at comparatively unfamiliarly social territory," according to Sayers. 
His work was popular around 1980 when "Joe the Engil).eer" came out, and is now enjoying a resurgence with Here, a col­lection of short stories to be released in 1994, Sayers said. 
One of the creative writing department's goals in its spring speaker series is to cover a broad range of writers and to expose students to as many dif­ferent types of writers and gen­res as possible. Wachtel's work is modern realistic work, Sayers said, and his back­ground will expose writing stu­dents to his modern style of fic­tion. 
"We are really starting to reach out," she said. "We hope for our undergraduates to come into contact with as many working writers as they can." 
She stressed that since Wachtel's work is known throughout the country, his speaking here is a chance for exposure to national talent. 
"He does really realistic fic­tion," she said. "It's a great opportunity to hear a novelist of national stature to read and answer questions about his working life." 
Following tonight's talk, Wachtel will give a fiction writ­ing workshop tomorrow at noon in the library lounge. Both the lecture, tonight at 8 p.m., and the workshop are free and open to the public. 
attorney and testifies in court, "I love the law. I know the law. I excel at prac­ticing it. What I love most about the law is that every now and again-not that often, but occassionally-you get to be a part of justice being done. It really is quite a thrill when that happens." 
Hanks, who lost thirty pounds for the character, does justice to a challenging role. His facial gestures reveal the reali­ty of AIDS and Hanks beckons the audi­ence into his feelings. 
The stellar cast also includes Denzel Washington, who ably carries several great monologues as Beckett's defense attorney. The poignant relationship between Miller and Beckett is enhanced by Washington's initial hatred toward homosexuals. Academy award winners Joanne Woodward (Andrew's mother), Mary Steenburger (Prosecutor), and the legendary Jason Robards (Charles Wheeler) round out a talented support­ing cast. 
The immense scope of the material in Philadelphia is served admirably by elo­quent dialogue, creative direction, and impassioned performances. 
By the end of the film, nearly everyone in the audience had tears in their eyes. Early in the film, one of the attorneys scolds society by asking, "Where is your compassion?" The evidence can be found on the salty cheeks of Philadelphia viewers. 


Tuesday, January 25, 1994 The Observer • NFL FOOTBALL page 11 

Cardinals, Falcons are latest to make coaching moves 
Bugel fired for performance in Phoenix 
Associated Press  sion, thanked him for his dedication and  
efforts on behalf of the Cardinals the  
TEMPE, Ariz.  past four years and wished he and his  
Joe Bugel, who received an ultima­ staff well," Bidwill said.  
tum before the season to produce a win­ Bugel, 53, was not immediately avail­ 
ning team, was fired Monday as coach of  able for comment. The team said he  
the Phoenix Cardinals after a 7-9 finish.  would meet with the media Tuesday.  
The decision by owner Bill Bidwill  The ouster means the Cardinals are  
ended months of speculation about  now without a coach and general man­ 
Hugel's future and came just more than  ager. Larry Wilson previously resigned  
a year after the warning to win or face  as GM, and Bidwill said the search to fill  
dismissal.  both jobs will be completed as quickly as  
The Cardinals did win four of their  possible.  
last five games, including their last  "I want the Cardinals fans to know  
three, but it clearly was not enough.  that I am going to do everything possible  
He now becomes the fourth coach to  to build a winning team," Bidwill said.  
be fired since the end of the regular sea­ After ranking 24th of 28 teams in  
son, joining Bruce Coslet (New York  scoring in 1992, the Cardinals jumped to  
Jets), Jerry Glanville (Atlanta) and  fourth last season. Steve Beuerlein  
Richie Petitbon (Washington).  passed for more yardage than any  
Bugel was 20-44 after four years in  Cardinals quarterback since Neil Lomax  
his first head coaching job. Still, he  in 1988 and set a franchise record for  
enjoyed strong support from fans and  passing accuracy.  
players, and some players attributed the  Phoenix featured a 1,000-yard rusher  
team's late-season success to a desire to  in rookie Ron Moore and three players  
save Hugel's job.  -Gary Clark, Ricky Proehl and running  
"While we had a good finish, our  back Larry Centers ­who caught more  
overall season performance was not sat­ than 60 passes apiece. The line allowed  
isfactory," Bidwill said. "We will contin­ the fewest sacks since 1978.  
ue our efforts to become a more talented  But the 7-9 record left the Cardinals  
and successful team this year. I have  two victories short of the winning record  
concluded, however, that to take this  Bidwill said would convince him the  
next step requires a coaching change."  franchise had turned around.  
Hugel's staff also was dismissed. His  At the same Jan. 15, 1993, news con­ 
contract runs through 1994 while his  ference to announce a one-year exten­ 
assistants' contracts ended with the  sion of Hugel's contract through the  
1993 season.  1994 season, Bidwill also promised  
"In talking to coach Bugel today, I  other changes if the team couldn't deliv­ 
told him that it was a very difficult deci­ er.  

Jones succeeds Glanville as Atlanta's coach 
By BILL SCHULZ  draft.  
Associated Press  Jones said the key will be managing  
the salary cap, which will put a limit on  
SUWANEE, Ga.  each team's payroll next year.  
Saying he was the man they wanted  "We may need to make some sacri­ 
all along, the Atlanta Falcons on  fices on offense (to improve the  
Monday named June Jones to succeed  defense)," Jones said.  
Jerry Glanville as coach.  He said he has yet to pick any assis­ 
Jones, 40, is the Falcons assistant  tant coaches but has several candidates  
head coach for offense, and once spent  in mind.  
four seasons as the club's backup quar­ Asked about Glanville's contention  
terback.  that one of the team's problems was  
Falcons president Taylor Smith said  that the football coach did not have the  
he's known Jones a long time and "we  power to cut players, Jones said: "The  
felt June's the guy we'd like to run our  football coach will make the decisions  
football team."  concerning the football team. Kenny and  
The only other coach considered seri­ I see things pretty much the same."  
ously was former Redskins coach Joe  Jones said he and Herock have been  
Gibbs. But, Smith said, the Redskins  talking about the team for at least a  
refused to allow the Falcons to talk to  week to 10 days.  
Gibbs and he had heard from other peo­ He stressed the need to keep the  
ple within the league that Gibbs would  nucleus of the team together in the face  
not coach in 1994.  of free agency and said, "The largest  
Glanville was fired Jan. 4 after the  group that plays together offensively is  
Falcons were 6-10 for the second con­ the line."  
secutive season. He had one year re­ At least one key member of the  
maining on a five-year contract. In four  Falcons line, guard Chris Hinton, is now  
seasons with Atlanta, Glanville had a  a free agent.  
28-38 record.  While not mentioning Hinton or quar­ 
Jones is a proponent of the run-and­ terback Chris Miller, who also is a free  
shoot offense. However, in setting the  agent, specifically, Jones said he thought  
team's first priority, he said: "We need  his promotion to coach would help keep  
to get better on defense."  those players with the Falcons.  
At a news conference at the Falcons  One player happy to see Jones get the  
training facility about 30 miles northeast  job was quarterback Bobby Hebert, the  
of Atlanta, Jones said he and Falcons  only Falcon quarterback under contract  
director of player personnel Ken Herock  for next year, who will undergo surgery  
were committed to improving the  next week to reattach a tendon in his  
defense through free agency and the  throwing elbow.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard ' 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Grey metal double cross ear­ring between 2nd floor PW and North Dining Hall on 1/14. Call Bridget at 4-2965 if you found it. 
I lost a silver chin with a cross walking from Roalfs to Alumni in the snow. If you find it I would really appreciate it if you would call me. Todd # 1251 
LOST: EYEGLASSES IN TAN CASE. CALL AMY X4966 
Lost my two car keys. They are bound to a medal with St Christopher on one side and Notre Dame de Paris on the other. Please call Huy 273­5859 if any info. 
LOST: diamond ring-i.lnusual set­ting--5omewhere between the Linebacker and Turtle Creek on Friday Night, 1/21. Extreme senti­mental value. If you found it, please call Adriana 273-4803 REWARD OFFERED 
LOST-TIMEX WATCH WITH INDIGLO. It has a black leather band. I lost it on Sat., Jan. 22, either at North Dining Hall, Lafortune, or on the way from NOH to Lafortune. If you have any info or have found it, please call Rich Glatz at 4-1143. Thanks. 
Lost: Set of keys on a red scuba 
fin keychain. North County Scuba 
written on keychain. If found 
please call Greg at 4-1620. 
$$$$REWARD$$$$ 
for the return of my long dark 
green coat (Harry Levine Petite) 
that disappeared from Club 23 
last Friday. Please help; I"m very 
cold. 
Call Kate x-1564 
No ?'s asked! 
LOST: several keys on a round United States Senate key chain. One of the keys is a big black Honda key. Another is a blue key. Please call Joe at 234-6306 with any information. 
WANTED 

...*SPRING BREAK '94**** Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. 
NO grads need babysitter on Mon or Fri for 4 hour period. Must have car. Near campus. Call Liz at 232­5790. 
Need revue tickets bad!! Call Tom x-1747 

DEADHEADS-I lost my tapes in transit, and I would surely appreci­ate any good deadhead who would make me some tapes to get me through the semester. I've got the blanks ready. Help! 273-5817 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
$700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. 
deckhands. Alaska summer fish­
eries now hiring. Employment 
Alaska 1-206-323-2672 

Help! I need a ride to Cleveland, Ohio (or all the way to Erie, Pa. if you are going that far) the weekend of Jan. 28. Very friendly, $$ for gas, tolls, etc. Call Brian x3043 
SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ in salary & benefits. Ski/Snowboard instructors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet staff + other positions (includ­ing summer). Over 15,000 open­ings. For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V5584 
FEMALE MODELS for suggestive but tasteful pin-up-type photos. Call 273-7074 alter 5 for info. 
I need GARTH BROOKS tix!!!! 
PLEASE call4-1477 
M/IJ\MfiMfii\MA 
Sell me your old books! I need: Operations Management: Strategy and Analysis (3rd ed.) ; and Probability and Statistics for Engineers (3rd ed.) call Tim@ 273-6142 
M/IJ\MfiMfii\MA 
Men and Women needed for free haircuts. Call Cosima's 277-1875 
FOR SALE 
I
L-------------1 
NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225. 
MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. 
AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306 
SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6 BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 
FURNISHED 8 AND 4 BEDROOM HOUSES 1 MILE NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
APARTMENT, 132 MARQUETTE, 3 BLOCKS FROM NO, 1500 SQ. FT., 2 BR & 1 BATH, HARDWOOD FLOORS, FIREPLACE, GREAT NEIGHBORHOOD, OPEN FEB 1 TO JULY 31, $500/MO. + UTILI­TIES, CALL234-1744 
Roommate to share 3 bedrm home. $250 mo. 5-min drive. Call 232­7175 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM 
ALL APPLIANCES 
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
232 2595 
I NEED ROOMMATES! 
Summer + 94-95 year 
150/mo furn+util pd-MUST SEE! 
Hickory Village-5 min to campus 
273-8369 
FOR RENT 
GARTH BROOKS TICKETS FOR SALE!! Call 273-6548 and leave a message with your offer and how many tick­ets you need! 
TICKETS 
I need 4 tix. 4 CARROT TOP X1646 -Toby 
Will pay $$BIG BUCKS$$ for Garth Brooks Tickets. Call Sarah at #3818. 
NEED I GARTH BROOKS TICKET SAT 2/12. KATIE X4067 
I PERSONAL 
JPW wknd confrmd reservation 
@ Jam1son Inn avail. for trade for 
cnfrmd hotel res. Stanford wknd, 
Sep29-0ct1 call Paul1-800-538­
9363-(xt)5128 
IF YOU'VE BEEN ON A LUCKY 
STREAK LATELY, LET A KNOTT 
ANGEL KNOW! 
KNOTT'S CASINO NIGHT 
JAN.28 
in search of black jersey-LAZERS 
#33, missing since Club Hockey 
game in Ft. Wayne. Please return 
to Doc 1-6752, SCH rm 446. 
Thanks!! 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373 
Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes 
Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free 
Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 
1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! 
Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 
days on the beach! We have the 
best trips & prices! Includes air & 
hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­
678-6386 
Florida's New Spring Break 
hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key 
West! More upscale than Panama 
City/Daytona! Great beaches & 
nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa 
Beachfront Resort $159! Key West 
$249! 1-800-678-6386 
-Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Stadent Center Phone 631-COPY 

Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days oceanview room with kitchen $119! Walk to best bars! Includes free dis­count card -save $50 on cover charges! 1-800-678-6386 
SOPHOMORESIIII 

Form turn-in for Sophomore Sibs Weekend is Jan. 31 in the Sorin Room from 3-6:30 p.m. 
Don't miss out on the opportunity to share Notre Dame with your sib. 
All monies, forms, etc. should be turned in at that time. 
SOPHOMORES Ill 

JPW escape is Feb. 18-20 but tix go on sale starting Jan. 17. Sales are from 3-5 on M & W and from 6-8 on Tu and Th. 
Only $50 gets hotel, trans. and tick­et to Phantom or 2nd City. First-come first-served. Supplies are limited. 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close ex1ended family in area. Let's help each other. Mad/legal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 

HEY!! A guitarist and drummer are 
looking for a bassist and guitarist to 
form a really brutal band. 

Experience and equipment are a 
must! 
If interested, call Rob at x4330 
Thanks! 

SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON­
DON & ROME IN 21ST YEAR. 
TRAVEL IN 

IREL,SCOT,ENG,FR,GER,SWITZ, 
& ITALY. COURSES IN PHOTO, 
BIO,BUS, ECON,HIST,SOC,ITAL­
IAN,& LIT. MEETING 6:30PM FEB. 
8 CARROLL HALL SMC. FOR 

INFO-PROF. BLACK 284-4460 
********BEAT THE RUSH******** VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching, and if you want to write a classified to that special someone, you can type your ad now. Your message will appear in the special Valentine's Observer on Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. 
Taylor-I hope your knee gets bet­ter soon ... Don't get down, it will be back to normal soon!! 
Love, Jamie 
Hiag The Lizard King and The Blue Jogger 
Are all coming to The Last Cavanaugh Hall Play Th,Fri,Sat. 
Maybe You Should Too 
TOP TEN POST POP FARLEY COMMENTS from the 1 st floor: 
10. Major Iaiiie symbol. ..my date LOVED it 
9. At least your date didn't say, "No, DON'T walk me home· 
8. He was tossing me around the dance floor & people were beating me & making me cry 
7. You really should floss 
6. He sneezed squarley on my face 
5. Half a gallon of skim milk, a piece of chicken on a fork, & 6 pancakes with his hands 
4. The only thing I hate worse than this song is your carpet 
3. I could've been totally naked ... how about that? 
2. My roomate just introduced herself to me 
1. Tim Murphy is the only male who told me I looked nice ... what is up with that?!? 
SARG.SARG*SARG*SARG* 
Alumni Awareness Week Scavenger Hunt /Word Scramole Each Day This Week, answer a dif­ferent alumni trivia question, then unscramble the secret letters to uncover the location of a voucher that can be redeemed at the Alumni Assoc. Office for a 
$100.00 MUSICLAND 
GIFT CERTIFICATE CLUE #1: Which NO alumn was the former chief executive of the National Basketball Assoc.??? 
_____ () () _____ _ 
SARG*SARG*SARG*SARG* 

page 12 The Observer • SUPER BOWL XXVIII Tuesday, January 25, 1994 

Aikman fine, will be ready to play Sunday 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 

Troy Aikman, who sustained a concussion in Sunday's 38-21 NFC championship victory over the San Francisco 49ers, is ex­pected to be healthy for the Su­per Bowl. 
"Our doctors feel good about his prospects of playing in the game on Sunday," Cowboys spokesman Rich Dalrymple said Monday. 
The Cowboys were to fly to Atlanta on Monday to begin preparations for Sunday's re­match against the Buffalo Bills. The defending champions will spend Tuesday involved in me­dia interviews, and their first practice was set for Wednesday at the Atlanta Falcons' practice field. 
Aikman was released from Baylor University Medical Cen­ter on Monday morning after spending the night as a precau­tionary measure. 
"He suffered a mild concus­sion and had no neurological damage," team physician Dr. 
J.R. Zamorano said. "He had no dizziness, no headaches and no double vision. However, he couldn't remember the past. It's just a matter of time and everything will come back." 
Magnetic resonance and other scans were normal, said Baylor physicians Robert Van­dermeer and John Coon. 
Aikman was knocked dizzy on the second play of the third quarter when he caught a knee in the helmet from 49ers de­fensive end Dennis Brown. Aikman spent time on the side­lines with smelling salts before the Cowboys decided to take him to the hospital. He fmished the day with 14 of 18 comple­tions for 177 yards and two touchdowns. 
''I'm concerned about Troy, we need him," Dallas coach Jimmy Johnson said. "We 
tliVY ~ sPliNt; BIM WEI/ 
SPRING






BREAK
COMPLETE FIVE I SEVEII IIIGBT TRIPS 
SOUTH PADRE ISI,AND 
DAYTONA BEACH 
PANAMA CITY BEACH 

~ ISdi.lh·H' ~ ~ MHJ'IJ&t¥ ~ 
VAiL/BEAVER CREEK 
ORLAI!IDO/DISNEY WORLD 
MUSTANG ISLAND 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 

BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
• PEIIPERSOIIGU'fNOI!WOIIOUI!JU.IIOti/8A!UGATU/LEJtlilKOFST.l 

FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS
It •BOO. SUNCHASEI 


started putting this team to­gether in 1989 and anytime you have a piece of the puzzle miss­ing it's not the same team." 
Aikman was at Valley Ranch shortly after his release from the hospital and is "feeling very good," Dalrymple said. 
"He remembers very little from the game and had a good rest in the hospital," Dalrymple said. "He will be on our plane at 3 o'clock when it takes off and is fully prepared to partici­pate in the week's events." 
Bernie Kosar finished up for Aikman. He took over with the score 28-14 and hit Alvin Harper with a 43-yard touch­down pass. 
"Bernie came in and played super," Johnson said. "He doesn't get a lot of snaps in practice and works mostly with the scout team. They blitzed him right away, but he made a big third down pass to Michael Irvin then hit Harper. 
"We were flat after Troy went out, but Bernie held us together," he said. 
n; 
u 
QJ 
;u 
<n 
w 
~ 
u 
QJ 
n; 
'6 
0 
;u 
w 
0. 
0 
!­
"" 
~ 
c 
E
,., "' c: 
0 
u 
QJ OJ) 
.0 
"' 
~ 
c: 
> 
OJ) 
"' 
...... 
' 
...... 

Thomas happY' to (tick) off critics 
ByJOHN F. BONFAITI Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Thurman Thomas prefers a variation on the team's new theme. No matter how it's phrased. the Buffalo Bills are back in the Super Bowl for the fourth straight year. 
The rallying cry, "Let's (Tick) 'Em All Off and Go for Four," was altered to pass mother's muster. 
"Let's use the bathroom and go for four,"' Thomas said with a smile. "I can't say that word on television. My mom would get mad." 
No matter how you phrase it, the Bills are back in the Super Bowl for a record fourth· straight appearance. That a lot of people didn't want them there is one of the big reasons 
wny they e up with the .slo~ gan. ·+ ii.!i 1 ;~i!!!' 
If there was any doubt the Bills weren't motivated by the derision of others, all one need­ed to do was to listen to the 
gloating tone of Jim Kelly's voice as he stood on the side· lines after Buffalo's 30-13 vic· tory over the Kansas City Chiefs in the AFCchampionship. 
"We're baaaack," Kelly said to a television camera. 
That's a surprise to the many people who predicted the team would collapse after the 52-17 loss to Dallas in last year's Super Bowl. 
It was the latest-and easi­ly the worst -of the team's three straight Super Bowl de­feats. The legacy of losing Su­per Bowls spawned a variety of Bills jokes. 
While others were laughing, the Bills quietly went about the task of preparing for another try. 
When general manager Bill Pollan was fired, owner Ralph 
C. Wilson Jr. promoted John Butler, the team's director of college scouting, as a replace­
ment. ..·......... n .. . _,,. · Butler and Wilson then 'Worked hard to retain the core of young players that had brought the Bills four AFC East titles in the previous five sea­
sons. They signed Thurman 
' ' 
' 

' 
' 
/ 

/ 
Thomas and Bruce Smith, two stars in the AFC championship victory over the Chiefs, to new contracts and restructured Kel­ly's deal to bring his salary in line with the NFL's other top quarterbacks. 
Free agency cost them Pro Bowl tackle Will Wolford and starting linebackers Shane Conlan and Carlton Bailey, but Butler's drafting left Buffalo with quality replacements al­ready on the roster. Sill, most forecasters picked Miami ahead of Buffalo in the AFC East. 
"Everyone always said Houston and Kansas City would be there. Or Pittsburgh," run­ning back Ken Davis said. "We were picked to finish fourth in our division." 
For the most part, the Bills silently suffered the jokes and predictions of gloom. Some players even understood why they were targeted. 
"They see it from a TV per­spective: 'God, they've had three chances and they're just going to go back and lose an­other one,"' defensive end Phil Hansen said. 

_DlAll-JJ:l:J:~·JJJ!1JJNSUAB_. 
SAVIIHI PeeneYOU CAll 

UP_t044% 
USE IT EVERY TIME YOU MAKE ALONG DISTANCE COLLECT CALL. 
.---­
I ­
-----------~======================================~ 


.. 
--t_ 

----------~-----------------------~-~­
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw saw her team fall to Butler 65-62 last weekend, snapping Notre Dame's three-game win streak. 


Juniors! 
JPW Seating Reservations 
(For the Dinner and Brunch) 

Jan. 24, 25, 26 

4-9pm Rm. 112 CCE 
You MUST BE REGISTERED (WITH PAYMENT) TO RESERVE SEATING! 
Check mail for information letter. 
Questions? CaliiPW Office 631-6028 
CONTESTANTS: HOSTED BY: 
John Mele Paul Noonan 
Pete O'Rourke Bill Dailey 
Mike Johnson Bill Kempf Mike Schmiedeler FEATURING: 
Frank Timons Bovine Solution 
JANUARY 29, 1994 STEPAN CENTER 8:00P.M. 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER Tickets are on Sale for $3.00 at the LaFortune Info Desk and through Stanford Hall 
earned a season-high 31 fouls. 
After shooting a dismal less than 30 percent in the first half. the Irish rebounded in the second half by shooting 4 7 percent and outscoring the Bulldogs 38-35. 
Junior forward Letitia Bowen led the second 

Irish split weekend swim meets 
By KELLY CORNELIS 
SponsWriter 
While both of Notre Dame men's and women's swimming and diving teams coasted to victory over Cleveland State on Friday at Rolfs Aquatic Center, neither team could hold off the powerful Boilermakers when they traveled to Purdue on Saturday. 
On Friday, the men edged out the Vikings 134.5 to 108.5 be­hind the strong swimming of junior Alan Shaw and sopho-

Cancun Mexico  lnom$439  
Negril Jamaica  fo.om$449  
Montego Bay Jamaica  ttom$419  
Daytona Beach, FL  fo.om$149  
Panama City Beach, FL  fo.om$129  

On-campus contad:~ Mike @63<1-<1<151 Angie @63<4-<1659 Michael @634-1121 
a=::
12f'· ~.,....,"""'-If., tlhoco,, NY 1A.I!I~ 
..._ 1-&00-6<18-4849 
moreTom Horenkamp, who claimed first and second place finishes in the 500 yard freestyle, respectively. 
The Irish men also captured the top three spots in the 1000 free and the 50 free. Senior diver Sean Hyer also made a significant contribution by win­ning both diving events. 
The women routed the Vikings 145-94, placing first or second in every race. Junior Jenni Dahl was impressive in the 1000 free, winning the event in 10:41.61. Sophomore Jesslyn Peterson won both the 200 and 500 free, although they were not her usual events. 
The Irish women also domi­nated both relays. 
"Cleveland State was a good win for us," said captain Kristin Heath, who placed second in the 200 fly. "We are in heavy training right now, so we're re­ally tired and broken down, but we will benefit in the long-run." 
The Boilermaker women, 
Struggle 
continued from page 16 
the ball right back." 
But when it came down to the crucial situations, Notre Dame couldn't do much with the ball. 
"We were making simple plays difficult by trying to be fancy when a simple pass and a shot will do," MacLeod said. "We're a lot better than this." 





Sophomores! 
Interested in beinJI the JPW Chairperson? 
Pick up applications at the 
LaFortune Info Desk Jan. 22·26 Applications Due Jan. 27 
half surge by scoring 11 of her 12 points in the final stanza. 
"I thought we played with a lot of heart," she said, "but we had too many fouls and too many turnovers, and we just didn't execute over the final minutes." 
Notre Dame had 25 turnovers while Butler had 20. 
"I think in the first half it was kind of slow," said freshman forward Katryna Gaither, who had a game-high 10 rebounds. "We kept trying to play hard defense, but the fouls just kept com­ing." 
"I was very disappointed because Butler is not a better team than us," added Bowen, who pulled down eight rebounds while playing most of the second half with four fouls. "But they were up to play us and we just didn't do the things we need to win." 
With the loss the Irish drop to 2-1 in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. The Bulldogs, who improved their overall record to 12-5, are now 3-1 in the MCC. 
who are ranked in the Top 20, defeated the Irish women soundly, 179-114. The men lost 136-101. 
Freshman Karen Daylor won the 100 free in 54.31, and was part of the second-place freestyle relay. The Irish swept the three top positions in the 200 breaststroke and the 500 freestyle, but lost the remaining 13 events. 
Sophomore Ryan Beville con­tinued to shine for the men, winning his 11th straight 200 fly in 1:54.75. Notre Dame's only other first place finish came from senior Andy Kiley in the 50 free. 
"Our main focus was racing very well and concentrating on not giving up," stated sopho­more Dave Doherty, who placed second in the 100 free and third in the 200 Individual Medley. "They got a lot of first places, but we got a lot of sec­onds." 
LOYOLA (70): Burton 4-6 2-2 10. Estes 6-11 6-6 18, Ali Q-2 1-2 1, Brent 5-7 1-4 13, Thomas 1-6 D-2 3, Wilburn 1-5 2-4 5, Salthe 2-4 0-0 4. Darrin Jenkins 1·2 D-0 2, Hawes 7·9 D-2 14. TOTALS: 27·52 12·22 70. NOTRE DAME (58): M Williams 7-22 3-4 19, Hughes 3-7 0·1 6, Joe Ross D-1 0-D 1, Hoover 5­15 4·4 17. Kurowski 2·5 0-1 6, White 1·4 0-0 2, Miller 2·5 o-o 6. Gotsch 1-1 D-1 2, Cozen D-0 o-o 0, 
J. Wiliams 0·2 2·4 2, Boyer D-1 D-0 0. TOTALS: 21-62 9-15 58. 
Halftime: Loyola 27. Notre Dame 15. 3-palnt goals: Loyola 4-9 (Brent 2-3. Thomas 1-2, Wilburn 1·2. Estes 0-2). Notre Dame 7·17 (Hoover 3-5, Miller 2-3, M. Williams 2-6, Kurowski D-2, Boyer o­1). Rebounds: Loyola 37 (Burton 6), Notre Dame 41 (M. Williams 12). Assists: Loyola 18 (Brent 5), Notre Dame 11 (Hoover 4). Turnovers: Loyola 1 B (Burton 6), Notre Dame 16 (Kurowski 5). Attendance: 8.467. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, January 25, 1994 


Harding gets support at home in response to attack 
,. 
By JEFF BARNARD 
Associated Press Writer 
PORTLAND, Ore. 

Tonya Harding basked in the applause of shoppers while skating at a mall Monday amid reports authorities have enough evidence to arrest her in the attack on rival Nancy Kerrigan. 
Authorities refused to com­ment on The Oregonian news­paper's report that investiga­tors have enough evidence to charge Harding in the plot, but don't want to act until they feel more sure of getting a convic­tion. 
Four men, including Harding's ex-husband and bodyguard, have been charged with con­spiracy in the Jan. 6 attack. Kerrigan was clubbed on the knee and forced to withdraw from the U.S. Figure Skating Championships in Detroit. 
No new witnesses were sched­uled to testify Monday before 

TTE 


T 

N H 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 



232-8256 
the grand jury, said Norm Frink, deputy Multnomah County district attorney. And no new warrants were issued in the case, said Douglas Bray, a clerk for Donald Londer, pre­siding judge in Multnomah County Circuit Court. 
Authorities in Detroit were waiting for the investigation in Oregon to conclude before issu­ing charges in the assault on Kerrigan, said Doug Baker, Wayne County assistant prose­cutor. 
The grand jury has until Feb. 3 to issue its report. 
Meanwhile, Harding had the skating rink to herself at the Clackamas Town Center shop­ping mall. She hit the ice at 9 
a.m. PST and skated for nearly an hour, finishing with a pro­gram set to "When You Fall in Love." The routine included several triple jumps. Harding did not fall. 
Shoppers who stopped to 
watch gave Harding loud applause, while reporters and photographers kept vigil. A knot of supporters stood by the rink, wearing pink buttons say­ing, "We Believe in Tonya." 
Shopper Judy Whetzel of Portland said she was uncertain whether Harding took part in planning or covering up the attack on Kerrigan. 
"I think my heart says no, but my head says yes," she said. Harding issued another state-
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY Now TAKING APPliCATIONs FoR 


'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FOR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 

232-8256 
ment through her lawyers claiming she was innocent. 
"I deny all allegations that I was involved in any way in the Nancy Kerrigan assault," Harding's statement said. 
The four charged with con­spiring to assault Kerrigan are Harding's ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly; her former bodyguard, Shawn Eckardt; the alleged hit man, Shane Minoaka Stant, and the alleged getaway driver, Derrick Smith. 
The Oregonian quoted uniden­tified sources as saying prose­cutors are trying to obtain more hard evidence to solidify the case against Harding. Eckardt, Stant and Smith reportedly have implicated her. 
Eckardt has told authorities Harding took part in cooking up an alibi, called Kerrigan's prac­tice rink to find out when she would be there, and berated Eckardt for taking too long to carry out the assault. 
~--------­

Tuesday, January 25, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



CALVIN AND HOBBES 


FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLEIT 
1'\15 Is So(ooL r CAt-4·, E~LI€.\JE l,JE'I2..E 
1,_.o, \o ~EE JKE. 
REC:>IS KA-rn•E
A"'"' 
LEE: SHoW-·· 
\ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Coxswain's crew
1 Christiania 
33 --Marquette

today 34 G.l. newspaper 
5 Noggin tops 
10 Hind's mate 37 Cures leather 14 Hullabaloo 38 "That's 15 Open-eyed interesting" 
16 "Damn 39 Opt Yankees" vamp 40 Two-by-two 
17 Ike was one vessel 20 Track officials 41 Reared 21 Testify 42 Worth 22 "Rule, Britannia" 43 Shed 
composer 
44 Escape 23 Early Briton 
45 Roman villa 24 Social groups locale 27 Garlic relative 48 Apollyon 28 Asian holiday adherent 31 Culture mores 52 Biblical beacon 
4o' KE(,t~ Is 'StmPt"\ Iii£ (Y)AN-EASIL"\ A--, [ooL A-s "\<oc.I(.NE ... 
54 Seller's caveat 55 Backcomb hair 56 Mechanical 
memorization 57 Smoker's sound 58 Mead research site 59 Animal team 
DOWN 
1 Switch settings 2 Eye opening 3 Kind of flow 4 Bell workers 5 Thin metal disks 6 Cognizant 7 Salts a Dr.'s graph 
9 Most rundown 10 Nodded 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Pamplona 

runner 12 Hale of "Gilligan's Island" 30 Blood and acid, 43 Code name 48 Coal stratum
1310onthe Beaufort scale e.g. 44 1980 Deluise 49 Hotcakes 18 Pressure 32 Beginning flick 
acronym 50 Bristle

19 Spoon 33 Bohemian 45 Royal Russian beers 51 Revenuers, for 
23 Intrinsically 

46"-girl!" 
short

24 Jai alai basket 35 Berlin events of 1948 47 Ski spot 53"--sport"
25 It makes scents 26 Part of the 36 Recap evening 
41 Machetelike 
Get answers to any three clues
27 Put on cargo knife by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
28 Dakota digs 42 Wimbledon 29 Upright champ Gibson 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
) 

"That's him. Second from the end-the 12-footer!" 
OF INTEREST 

~o:ruUtol~uuuw meeting today at University Health Services 
organizational mee in the Center for Soci 
rn.:lnl'ilah'\ru van drivers training seminar will toneren for who have not attended and are . . request use of the Center for Social ·n~nn•·~ Th~ c;ourse will be offered on Wednesday, and Thursday,January 27 at 5 p.m. at the C.S.C. 
l(fhe Prudential will be visiting the ND/SMC conimtmt-1 ties on the following dates: Wednesday, Feb. 16 and Thursday, Feb. 17 (Saint Mary's). Sign up at your respective Career & Placeme If schedules are full please contact Jessie at(312) 631-2169. 
DINING HALL 


Saint Marys 
Call284--5542 for menu . information. 


•






The Observer 
will soon be accepting applications for the 
1994-95 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Marys is encouraged to apply. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, January 25, 1994 
Ramblers hand Irish their fourth straight loss, 70-58 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
It's a big mountain to climb, recently with more valleys than peaks. The Notre Dame men's basketball team fell even further Monday with a 70-58 loss to Loyola. 
It was the team's fourth straight loss after an upset of No. 25 Missouri breathed new hope into a gasping season. Notre Dame is now 5-11. 
"We've hit a flat spot," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "We were encouraged after Missouri, but we're not getting better now." 
Reattach the respirators. 

Notre Dame entered Monday's game as a 10 1/2 point favorite, but managed just 15 first half points on a dismal 5-for-27 shooting perfor­mance. 
"I said at practice that I didn't think we could shoot as poorly as we did (last Saturday) against Manhattan," MacLeod said. "We shot worse." 
Loyola took advantage of Notre Dame's early offensive problems, scoring 11 straight points midway through the first half to open a 24-7 lead. 
The lead was 12 at halftime, but the Ramblers were without their top scorer Kerman Ali who aggravated a heel injury after scoring just one point. 
Without Ali, Loyola promptly built its lead to 21. Matt Hawes came off the bench for the Ramblers to score 14 second half points. He had scored just 13 total points this season. 
"When we lost Kerman, we had to go deeper on 
Notre Dame wins tennis season opener 
By PHIL LANGER 
Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team, currently ranked No. 14 in the nation, opened its 1994 dual match season on Saturday with a 5-2 win against Miami (OH) and a 7-0 victory over Northern Illinois. 
Fifth-year senior Andy Zurcher, the No. 36-ranked player in the country, posted two wins at the top singles posi­tion with a 6-3, 6-0 victory over David Fagen of Miami and a 2­1 win over Northern Illinois' Marty Engel, who forfeited early in the match. 
Not to be outdone by Zurcher, Irish freshman phenom Ryan Simme, the No. 32-ranked play­er in the country and No. 2 player for Notre Dame, de­feated both David Zinn of Miami 6-4, 6-2 and Sunu Thomas of Northern Illinois 6­2, 6-2. 
Senior Todd Wilson and sophomore John Jay O'Brien also had two wins in singles for the Irish on Saturday. 
The highlight of the weekend, however, was the excellent doubles play of the Irish. Notre Dame went undefeated in six doubles matches. 
Irish seniors Zurcher and Wilson knocked off Zinn and Baxter (Miami) 8-2 and Engel and Thomas (Northern Illinois) 8-1; sophmores Jason Pun and Michael Sprouse defeated Fagen and Seltenrich (Miami) 8-5 and Green and Schoberlein (Northern Illinois) 8-4; fresh­man Simme and O'Brien beat Stern and Ritchie (Miami) 8-5; and senior Tad Eckert and ju­nior Horst Dziura defeated Berka and Westphal (Northern 
our bench than we usually do," Loyola coach Will Rey said. "Hawes stepped up and made some big shots. We hoped our bench would come through and they did." 
But not without a fight. 
Notre Dame put together a 16-6 run to pull within five points with 3:37 remaining. But Loyola scored eight straight points and hit its free throws down the stretch to secure the 12­point win. 
Freshman walk-on Pete Miller ignited the Irish with two 3-pointers and some gutty play during his 14 second half minutes. 
"Pete gave us a strong performance," MacLeod said. "He made two or three errors, but he was probably fatigued. He has tremendous heart." 
It showed Monday as he dove for loose balls and created some much needed offense with aggressive drives to the basket. 
"He's really a pretty good basketball player," MacLeod said, defending his choice to give a walk-on such extended action. 
Notre Dame also got a second half spark from its dynamic duo, Monty Williams and Ryan Hoover. 
Both were quiet in the first half, but they got free to combine for 27 second half points. Williams finished with a game-high 19 points and Hoover scored 17. 
"We knew they were going to make a run with those two potent offensive players," Rey said. "We sensed we could win the game and got a lit­tle excited and we shot too quick and gave them 
see STRUGGLE I page 13 


Strong second half gives Saint Mary's 
Illinois) 8-6. lem for the Irish. "Thtl doubles play was excel­"We must toughen up the bot­
75-63 victory and third straight win 
lent, especially against Miami," tom of our lineup," commented 
said Notre Dame head coach Coach Bayliss, "the fact that 
By KIMBERLY BERO 

Bob Bayliss, "we hit the ball Miami hung with us in the sin­
Sports Writer 

with a lot of authority, domi­gles matches concerns me. nated the net, hit through our "There are still a lot of unan­The Saint Mary's Collegereturns and consequently con­swered questions about who 
basketball team chalked up
trolled the tempo of the match." will fill the roles of the lower their third straight victory lastNotre Dame was not flawless, singles positions," he contin­night at Angela Athletic Facility however, during its dual match ued. "We still, however, had a 
last night, beating Olivet
season opener. The middle of good beginning to our spring the lineup still remains a prob-season." 
College 75-63. 

The Comets. now 3-12 on the year, began the game ex­plosively. jumping out to an early lead and holding it for the majority of the first half. 
The Belles led by a two point margin for the last five minutes of the first half, but the Comets' leading scorer Molly Geisen sunk a field goal in the closing seconds to make the halftime score 32-32. 
"We just got off to a slow, sluggish start. It looked like everyone was playing for them­selves," said Coach Marvin Wood. "We weren't sharp on either our passing or our shoot­ing. We hesitated too much, and we were not mentally well­prepared.'' 
The Belles were able to re­gain their composure and ex­ploded in the second half, with five straight points in the first few minutes to give Saint Mary's a 45·40 lead. 
Saint Mary's continued to dominate the game, as they in­creased the lead over the Comets to 15 points by the mid­dle of the second half. This run was due mainly to shooting 
Freshman Ryan Simme helped the Irish win their indoor season opener 
from the field and a stifling de-

with two straight-set victories this weekend. 
Inside SPORTS 
fense that held the Comets out of the lane and off the boards. 
"Our tempo on defense was really down. We were slow in the second half, allowing Saint Mary's to dictate to us," said Olivet Coach Nancy Van Hoozier. 
The Comets stayed in the game by relying on their three­point shooting. The team hit a total of eight three point shots, with Molly Geisen and Lara Diederich each scoring four times from beyond the stripe. 
"Our outside game was good," Van Hoozier com­mented. "We were consistent on our three-point shooting." 
The Belles were lead by sophomore Jennie Tauben­heim. who poured in 29 points and grabbed 12 rebounds. 
Freshman Katie Lalli, who has continued to mature in her first year in Saint Mary's uni­form, finished the game with 23 points. 
"This game was very impor­tant for us. Even though we started the season on a bad note (1-7), this is our third straight win, and our confi­dence is building," Wood said. 
The Belles will be in action again this Thursday when they host cross-town rival Bethel College. 
"This week will be a pleasure working at home and not trav­eling," Wood said. "We'll be working on improving our basics." 


Women's Hoops 
Women's Swimming Super Bowl XXVIII Despite 18 points from 

Cowboy's quarterback freshman Beth Morgan, 
Senior captain Kristin 

Troy Aikman will be Notre Dame fell to Butler 
Heath helped the Irish 

ready to face a deter­65-62 last weekend. 
beat Cleveland State last 

mined Buffalo squad on Sunday. see page13 
weekend. 
see page 12see page 13 






