
------~-------------­
~--------------------..... 
~150 YEARS~ 
Y'S 
>
t Cl I I< 
Thursday, October 13, 1994• Vol. XXVI No.35 I I I t"" 
~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Challenges overcome University promotes faith 
By AMY SCHMIDT 
News Writer 

through dedication 
By SARAH DORAN Sports Illustrated designated 
The job of a Catholic univer­News Editor her inspiring comeback one of sity is to cherish and promotethe top stories of 1993. 
the interplay of faith a..d rea­Dedication, perseverance and But it was not Scott's physical 
son, according to Father
faith. and emotional experiences af­
Theodore Hesburgh who ad­
A model of these terms, ter the accident that taught her 
dressed an audience at the
Haley Scott shared her inspir­the components of recovery, Hesburgh Center for Interna­ing story with others facing but those preceding it, she said. 
tional studies last night.

challenges similar to hers as From training in the hopes of a -­
Giving a lecture entitled
keynote speaker of yesterday's collegiate swimming career to "Reflections on the Mission of a 
sixth annual Disabilities volunteer work during high 
Catholic University," HesburghAwareness Week Awards school, all experiences gave to 
started by illustrating a very
Luncheon. her commitment to recover. 
different Notre Dame of the"I learned that any dream Still, the road ahead was 
past.

worth accomplishing and striv­anything but easy. 
"It is always easier to go for­
ing for would take time, "The first day of therapy was ward when we know where wededication and hard work," she hard, it was the first time I have been," he said.
said. "I learned what it meant realized I couldn't walk. I 
He pointed out that the Uni­
to be dedicated." wasn't prepared to face my 
versity's budget in 1945
A member of the Notre Dame emotional disability," she said. 
reached only $6.5 million. To­swim team, Scott was para­"But I had to make the best of day, it costs about one millionlyzed in a January 1992 bus my situation and do it with a dollars a day to operate. 
crash in which two of her positive attitude." 
Hesburgh said that through a 
teammates died. Doctors pre­This attitude drew from Scot­multitude of advances, such as
dicted she would never walk t's determination and base of 
a new library, increased office
again, but she gradually support. 
space, and research, the Uni­
regained movement and, after "Faith was a huge part of my The Observer/ Nicky Batill 
versity became what it is today. 
almost two years of operations recovery, the strength to en­Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, CSC, lectured on the aims of a Catholic uni­
He compared this job with
and rehabilitation, Scott not dure whatever I might en­versity last night at the Center for International Studies. 
"climbing up a mountainside."
only is walking but also once counter," she said. Hesburgh said. ness, and suddenly a light
He then discussed the distinc­
again is swimming competitive­And after a second set of In order explain the role of a comes to dispel the darkness. A
tion of Notre Dame as a
ly for the Irish. surgeries to fix problems with Catholic university, he used university with philosophy and
Catholic university, and the
She was also named a 1994 metal rods placed along her three metaphors: a beacon, a theology is that beacon. He said 
responsibility that goes along
"Woman of Distinction" by the spine, she "depended on family bridge, and crossroads. that there cannot be a place of
with such a title.

National Association for Hesburgh compared igno­
"This is a very different place 
Women in Education, and rance to a vast field of dark-
see SCOTT/ page 4 because of that little adjective," see HESBURGH/ page 4 

Forum addresses adversity today's women face 
By THERESA ALEMAN Chalk, co-president of the cen­ND sweatshirt over their bikinis being rolled off the beach. nition of woman? Answer 1. News Writer ter. so as to cover their huge ass 3. They are the ones on the The useless piece of flesh Joe Evans, a Notre Dame [sic]. (Thank God for the book­beach studying for their upcom­around the vagina. Answer 2. 
People must respond to big­senior, pointed out that de­store). ing May finals. The attachment that you screw otry if it is to be eliminated. meaning and abusive sexist 9. They rarely travel in 2. They are the ones that are in the bed, that does the house­Gender inequity must be ad­language thrives on Notre groups smaller than 6 and they bitching about one thing or an­work. Answer 3. A sheep that dressed if it is to be overcome. Dame's campu.s. Evans ad­kackle [sic] as they walk. other and popping Pamprin cooks.' A campus where things Demeaning and exclusive lan­dressed the forum, "In case 8. They are the ones wearing pills. like this can be posted has a guage cannot be ignored if re­there was any doubt as to their head band [sic] on their 1. They are the ones that problem," said Evans. spect is to exist. These are the whether or not there are pro­wrists. have the horrid harpoon marks "This is violence," he said. issues that The Women's found problems with gender re­7. They are the pale hideous on their backs. "Both of these were posted in Resource Center addresses and lations here at Notre Dame, I'd fat chicks on the beach. Dawgs avoid any chick that public areas and to my knowl­hopes to address according to like to read some notes pulled 6. They have their noses so fits this description-when in edge, when I took them down speakers at last night's forum, from some section and hall high in the air that the native doubt slap your leg and say: was the first time anyone did. "Notre Dame Speaks Out About notes on campus." birds are trying to perching 'Here girl!' If she comes, kick If you're not sickened by this, Women." Evans read first from a page [sic] on them. her in the mouth and move on. there's something wrong," 
Educating about women and of Alumni Hall notes dated 5. They have a Big Mac in Reading from some Women in positions of power providing counseling referrals March 4, 1993: one hand and a "yo" cream in section notes posted within the have a responsibility "to help to women is the purpose of the " ' The Top Ten Ways to Spot the other. last month in Carroll Hall re­make the playing field more Notre Dame Women's Resource a ND or SMC Chick over Break: 4. They're the ones with strooms, Evans continued, Center according to Linda 10. They are wearing a huge hooks in their mouths and [sic) " 'Question: What's the defi­
see WOMEN/ page 4 

Engineering alumnus honored 
Special to the Observer the Illinois Institute of Technol­
Notre Dame alumnus Robert ogy and began his engineering Serafin, director of the National career at the Hazeltine Re­Center for Atmospheric Re­search Corp. search (NCAR) in Boulder, Serafin became director of Colo., has been inducted into NCAR in 1989. The center ad­the National Academy of Engi­dresses issues in the atmo­neering. spheric sciences, particularly 
He was recognized for his weather and climate issues. contributions to meteorological Sponsored primarily by the Na­observing systems and for his tional Science Foundation, it leadership in atmospheric re­maintains research partner­search programs and organi­ships in the academic, public zations. and private sectors. 
Selection to membership in An expert in radar, radar the academy is considered one meteorology and weather fore­of the highest distinctions in the casting, Serafin is a member of engineering profession and is a number of professional com­reserved for those who have mittees, including the National made "important contributions Research Council's committee to engineering theory and prac­on national weather service tice." modernization and the commit­
A native of Chicago, Serafin tee on the meteorological anal­received his bachelor's degree ysis, prediction and research. in electrical engineering from he is chairman of the technical Notre Dame in 1958 and a advisory committee on next
Wash and go master's degree from North­generation weather radar for Beautician Joanne Haynes cuts and styles Saint Mary's Junior Molly Kelsey's hair in Haircrafters. western University in 1961. He Haircrafters is located in the basement of LeMans Hall. completed his doctoral work at see SERAFIN/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, October 13, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
• WORlD AT AGLANCE 

Frightened soldier asks for release of prisoners


Remember 


RIF and 


Barbara Bush? 
When I was a kid, I guess I really took those Saturday morning public service announcements about literacy to heart. You remember RIF. Reading is Fundamental? They had me convinced that if I didn't read every­thing I could get my hands on by the time I entered kindergarten, I would be scarred for life. 
It all started out innocently enough. I would drag my parents to Story-Hour at the library as often as possible. Learning to ride a bicycle became a major goal so I could g~t there myself. Unfortunately, I had a very disturbing tendency to keep all the books I borrowed. From a financial perspective this worked out pretty well because when Ed McMahon and those Publishers Clearing House envelopes began arriving, things started getting out of hand. Unlike most people, I could care less about Ed and his millions. It was those fun little stickers pasted to the order form that were the important part; they were the gate­way to any magazine I wanted. I think I was the only third grader with a subscription to Highlights and U.S. News & World Reports. 
The reading bug hasn't left me now that I'm older, but I do fmd that my time available for pleasure reading has significantly decreased. I'm guessing that this is an omnipresent trend because I just don't see people reading any­more. After first coming to this hypothesis during a rather long international flight, I recently decided to test my observation on a train trip to Boston. When I boarded the train in NY, I had two books with me-one for the 5 hour NY-Boston trip and the other for the return leg. Halfway to Boston, I thought I would check out what my fellow travelers were reading. 
Sadly enough, the majority were staring 
vacantly out the windows. The others were 
asleep. There wasn't even a newspaper in 
sight. Thinking that maybe it was a fluke 
thing, that maybe my test group was too 
small, I did the same thing with a bit more 
success on the way back. The number of 
people who did nothing for five hours straight 
still outnumbered the readers. 
Pleasure reading, and reading in general, 
seems to be on a dangerous downswing. 
Granted most people will pick up the daily 
paper or Time or the National Enquirer, but 
why don't people read books these days? 
What ever happened to Reading Is 
Fundamental? Didn't anyone listen to Barbara 
Bush? When was the last time you went to 
your local public library? 
Maybe it's the shortened attention spans 
that the MTV generation has produced that 
are to blame. After all, books don't have 
soundtracks or commercials. Perhaps it's all 
USA Today's fault. Informative and colorful as 
it is, they've just about limited our attention 
spans to three lines, a nifty font, and a pie 
graph. So does that mean that a book has to 
have a great cover, lots of pictures and a Dear 
Abby column to be good too? Sure seems that 
way sometimes. 
October break is right around the corner. I 
look at it as nine days during which I can read 
whatever I want, whenever I want, at my own 
pace. I've already got a couple of books in 
mind. If you think about, the ability to read is 
a pretty cool gift that is really just waiting to 
be taken advantage of. So why not find your­
self a LazyBoy, grab a best-seller and a golden 
retriever and read, n~ad, read? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production 



Judge: Teachers have the right to strike 
DENVER 
A judge refused to order Denver's 3,800 public school teachers back to work Wednesday, ruling they have a right to strike. ''I'm not trying to minimize the impact on the community," State District Judge Larry Naves said, "but when the Legislature decides to permit public employees to strike, these things are foreseeable." The teachers walked off the job on Monday in their first strike in 25 years. State Labor Commissioner Joe Donlon had asked for a back-to-work order, claiming that the walk­out violated state law and that the strikers could be jailed for 60 days and fined $100 per day. The school system had also argued that the strike would cause irreparable harm to the 63,000 students, a claim the judge denied. Substitutes, administrators and teachers who crossed picket lines have taken over classes, but many students have come and gone as they pleased. The key issues are salary increases, improved working conditions and union representation on community boards that govern individ­ual schools. No new talks were soheduled. Gov. Roy Romer met privately Wednesday with both sides to dis­cuss ways to end the strike. 

Packwood regularly attends AA meetings 
GRANTS PASS, Ore. 
Sen. Bob Packwood regularly attends meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous, he said in Wednesday's Grants Pass Daily Courier. Asked if he considered himself an alcoholic, Packwood said "I don't think that's a threshold I have to cross." The Oregon Republican said he hasn't had a drink in nearly two years and tries to attend AA meetings twice a week in Washington. He quit drinking soon after publication of allegations from women who said he made improper sexual advances toward them. The Senate Ethics Committee is investigating claims by more than two dozen women who accused Packwood of making unwanted sexual advances. Some accused him of touching and kissing them against their will. Packwood has apologized for "terribly offensive" conduct but says he has no memory of most of his accusers. The commit­tee is also looking at job offers that businessmen and lob­byists made to Packwood's then-wife, Georgie, while the couple was going through a divorce -and his alimony payments were being determined. 

American wins Nobel Prize in chemistry 
STOCKHOLM 

An American won the Nobel prize in chemistry today for revolutionizing the study of hydrocarbons and uncov­ering new ways to use them in the petroleum industry. George A. Olah of the University of Southern California in Los Angeles was the sole winner of the $930,000 award. "Olah's scientific contributions have won widespread recognition among organic chemists and his work ... has a prominent position in all modern textbooks," the Royal Swedish Academy said in a statement. Born in Budapest, Olah was honored for discovering ways to manipulate hydrocarbons, such as those that make up petroleum. In the early 1960s, he and his colleagues discovered that extremely strong acids, called superadds, could be used to modify hydrocarbons so they were easier to study. The discovery also led to a wide variety of new industrial processes, such as new ways to break down heavy oils and liquify coal. Notably, his research has allowed im­provements in combustion engines by raising the octane of fuel without adding to pollution, the academy said. Olah, 67, works at the USC Loker Hydrocarbon Research Institute. 

FDA approves ultrasound bone healer 
WASHINGTON 

The Food and Drug Administration has approved a new device to help elderly Americans' broken bones heal faster. The Sonic Accelerated Fracture Healing System uses low-intensity pulses of ultrasound on fractures in the lower leg and lower forearm. While clinical trials showed the device accelerated healing in all patients with these fractures, the elderly saw the most improvement, FDA said. One study found older patients' leg fractures healed in 102 days if they used the device but 187 days if they didn't. There are other types of bone growth stimu­lators on the market, but this device, made by Exogen Inc. of West Caldwell, N.J., is the first to use ultrasound, FDA said. Patients use the device for 20 minutes a day until the wound heals. It is not for use by children, preg­nant women or people with bone diseases, fractures any­where other than the lower leg and forearm or wide leg fractures -those larger than half a centimeter. 

• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 13. 
Unes separate high temperature zones lor the day. 


Nancy Dunn Heather Gibson Ethan Hayward Tara Grieshop .....,.........
Sports Accent 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Woather, Inc.
Tom Schlidt Bevin Kovalik 

Pressure 
Lab Tech Tom Roland 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
Shelley Sullivan Viewpoint 


Carolyn Wilkens Mike O'Hara 
Graphics 
Tom Roland 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
VIa Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Atlanta 63 49 Dallas 73 48 Minneapolis 65 40 Baltimore 63 37 Denver 78 45 New Orleans 66 60 Boston 57 39 Detroit 61 41 New York 61 43 Chicago 62 35 Los Angeles 91 65 Philadelphia 63 43 Columbus 64 43 Miami 88 75 Phoenix 92 65 


------~-~--~--~ -~---------~------,--------,----------------.,.--.,---,.......__,.__,.---~---­


Hospitals should focus on care, not profit 
By TRICIA WAGNER 
News Writer 
The ethos of medicine is turn­ing into a business of survival, said Richard McCormick, SJ, member of Christian Ethics at Notre Dame, in his lecture enti­tled "Catholic Hospitals Mission or Misfire" presented Wednesday afternoon at Saint Mary's. 
Father McCormick focused on whether the Catholic statement of personal conviction and in­volvement in medicine today is gradually becoming a business instead of a healing mission. 
We need to be in health care and not in the hospital busi­ness. Health care is under threat in a large institutional setting, according to Mc­Cormick. 
"A mission can get swal­lowed up and become dys­functional (if it becomes more of a business than caring for the patient's health), " he stat-
We have started to take applications for next year. 
*ALL UTILITIES COVERED* 

Furnished apartments ­indoor swimming pool -jacuzzi tennis, volleyball, &basketball courts 24 hour laundry-shuttle bus professional management. 
*Apartments available for 


your selection.* 
For more information ca/1272-1441 
These apartments will feature the high-efficiency, energy­saving heat pump. 
ed. 
McCormick spoke of five di­mensions of the medical con­text. He said according to Health Progress , October 1994 issue, these dimensions "oper­ate as undermining factors from profession to business," and "if they dominate, the mis­sion is threatened." 
The first dimension states that there is "depersonalization in medicine today." The con­stant growth of technology has added to the impersonality of the medical profession today by focusing on efficiency, said Mc­Cormick. 
"The matrix of medical deci­sions have to be personal," and "technology is an impersonal factor." 
The second dimension ex­plores the effects of the increasing secularization of medicine. "The secularization of medicine will make medicine a business," said McCormick. There has been a "divorce of medicine from those values of personal oriented service," according to McCormick. 

Many doctors are beginning to set their own terms in the market place by deciding who they want to treat, stated Mc­Cormick. 
To prove his point, Mc­Cormick cited the work of James Gorman, a writer for the 
N.Y. Times, who wrote an essay entitled "The Doctor Won't See You Now." "'Doctoring is no different from any other small business,' a doctor can refuse to sign on another patient, just as a business can refuse to serve a customer," said McCormick. 
The third dimension concerns itself with the growing notion that we as human beings have the right to decide what we want done with our bodies as patients. Doctors used to de­cide what the best treatment for their patients was; there were no ideas of self-choice for the patient, according to Me-Cormick. 
"Dr. Kevorkian has become what he provides, and instru­ment," he added. 
The critical role that large institutions such as the federal government play in our society is the focus of the fourth di­mension. The government has to concern itself with large, general issues such as poverty, education, and drug abuse, and yet, it still has to worry about our personal bodies when we become patients, said Mc­Cormick. 
The effects of hospitals in­creasingly being driven by the market are examined in the fifth dimension. 
"Hospital's have a margin, they have to be financially vi­able or they will go out of exis­tence." 
In 1992, one dollar out of seven was used for health care and 838.5 billion was spent overall, said McCormick. It is estimated that about a trillion dollars, the highest amount ever spent on health care, will be expended in 1994, he added. 
The increasing use of medical specialists accounts for a large part of the rising cost of health care in the USA, said Mc­Cormick. 
According to the American Medical Association, in the year 2000 we will have an estimated 
140.000 more snecialists than 
are needed. The idea of the managed care system would like to "shake out specialists," according to McCormick. 
We as Catholics, patients, and doctors need to get back to the basics of the bedside manner of the healing mission of health care, said McCormick. 
In the words of Father Mc­Cormick "We need to re-cap­ture the mission, or we will simply be business people alongside other business peo­ple." 
'Parlicipanls mud 6e a ntJJsmc sludenl. OnliJ Iiili writs will 6e accepled (drawings, design, pht~lt~graph1J, painlings} wilh a maximum si~e t~l3'x3'. 
1he exhi6ilwilt 6e sht~wn in lhe 1Jt~t~le1J Rtlt~m al lll1t~rlune Sludenl Cenler nt~llem6er 1-11 
'Purchase pri~es, darling al $200, will 6e awarded. 
/JppUctditlnl a" a11ailtl6lt ,,,., ;, "" Sl11tltnl Acli11ili" 01/ict 
315la1t~rllllfl. 
Sp1eial 111all•l fll '"' -AIMifllli -Ass•eiali111, 


"'' s,.;, m,,,,.,a,.tt "'' 
SIMtl111f -Aefivifi11 Ollie' ,,,,.,;, uufiflll "' '"' 

pMrellase prit• awards. 






Program one of best in nation 
By RICK BORST 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's undergraduate accounting program is fifth best in the nation, according to 13th annual survey of The Public Accounting Report. 
"It has been a high-ranking program for several years," said Professor Thomas Frecka, accounting department chair at Notre Dame. The program has held a top ten ranking annual­ly, he stated. 
Freck:> attributes the pro­gram's success to its "outstand­ing students and outstanding faculty" and to the high caliber jobs students receive upon graduating. 
"200 students a year go through the (accounting) pro­gram, making it one of the largest at Notre Dame," he said. The program's high ranking in the survey aids these students' success in fmd­ing employment, according to Frecka. 
The first through fourth places were awarded to the University of Illinois, the Uni­versity of Texas, the University of Southern California and Brigham Young University, re­spectively. The University of Mir.hilmn sharP.rl fifth nlar.P.. 

page4 

Wo01en 
continued from page 1 
even," said Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies who began the forum. Kolman, who introduced her­self as the one woman of the six deans on campus and discussed the realities of gender inequity at Notre Dame even for one in a position of authority and re­spect. 
The advantages of studying at such a prestigious university as Notre Dame are apparent, but it can been a struggle for either women or African Americans, said Rochelle Stewart. Being an African American woman, Stewart noted the advantages of studying at Notre Dame while acknowledging that it has been a challenge for her because of her race and her gender. "I have made it so far and will make it because of Notre Dame," she said. 
The Catholic Church should make efforts to develop a more universal and inclusive ministry for women, homosexuals, and other socially marginal groups according to Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry (SAIM) representatives, Emily Malcoun and Paul Voelker. 
Harassment and prejudice 


Scott 
continued from page 1 
and friends for support-they gave me strength physically and emotionally," she said. 
As time goes by and the date of the accident slips further into the past, Scott's experi­ence will lead her through more challenges and even more recoveries. She intends to draw on this when she returns to her home of Phoenix to pur­sue a career as a history teacher. 
"I hope to be able to teach them [my students] not only the facts and dates of history, but something about themselves and about life," she said. 
The audience sure learned it. 
The awards luncheon, which was sponsored by various area organizations including Good­will Industries Michiana and the Logan Center, included proclamations honoring area businesses that have hired people with disabilities, as well as tributes to individuals who have overcome disabilities and wAre hired in competitive jobs. 
must be confronted u they are to be stopped according to Sandra Yost, a third year Ph.D. candidate in electrical engineering at Notre Dame who is also member of the order of the Sisters of Saint Joseph. 
" 'Women should remain barefoot, silent, pregnant, and subservient.' This was scrawled on a wall in my office, presum­ably by one of my male col­leagues," recalled Yost. 
The language people use to speak about boys and girls must changed if people are to realize the capabilities and potential of women, according to Developmental Psychologist, Jay Brandenberger who spoke also as a father of two daugh­ters. 
Athletics can help women gain gender equity and respect from peers, but there are prob­lems endemic to women in sports such as eating disorders according to Cara Garvey, cap­tain of the Women's Swim Team. Improving problems in gender relations and mental health in athletics should re­main a constant goal in athlet­ics according to Garvey. 
There are generations of women who are victims of dif­ferential treatment according to Barbara Turpin, Associate Dean of the Notre Dame Graduate School. 
Children serve as symbols of a 


Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
universal knowledge without those two subjects. 
"They seek for ultimate pur­poses-value and meaning," he said. 
He also paralleled Notre Dame to a bridge that closes various gaps. 
"We bridge between male and female, young and old, black and white, north and south," he said. 
Finally, Hesburgh called Notre Dame a crossroads be­cause the school can do many things that other universities cannot. 
"People coming here from all different directions are not just meeting here," he said. "They are accepted." 
In order fulfill the mission of a Catholic university. Hesburgh feels that Notre Dame must in­clude students, faculty. and staff who work to form intelli­gence and exercise freedom. 
"If there is going to be a great Catholic university some­where in the world, it is going to be here," he said. 
KEENAN HALL 
PRESENTS: 




Jason Hall 
A motivational speaker and former Student Body President of BYU, speaks on ''nle Road to Happiness." 
6:30pm to 7:30~m Thursday, October 13th, 1994 in the Keenan Kommons 

Refreshments will be served~ 

The Observer • NEWS man s humamfy whtie they serve as symbols of women's lack of seriousness, she said. "I speak not as a victim, I don't like victims, we need to prevent the creation of another genera­tion of victims," said Turpin. "Fear, intimidation, and igno­rance" are the forces which drive people to write phrases such as "This place is for dikes" in the tunnels at Saint Mary's and "Fags must die" in front of LaFortune Student Center as recently as Tuesday of this week, according to Saint Mary's senior, Kelly Smith. "Rape happens at Notre Dame" said Jennifer Starmann from Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE). 
"Rape is not just a women's issue, it's everyone's issue," said Kate Vanrooy, a represen­tative from Sex Offense Services (SOS). 
S Y R A C 


Serafin 
continued from page 1 
the U.S. Weather Service, as well as chief scientist of the mesoscale meteorology pro­gram. 
Serafin also is a fellow of the American Meteorological Soci­ety and a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and Elec­tronics Engineers. 
He has authored or co-au­thored more than fifty publica­tions and holds three patents. 
Thursday, October 13, 1994 ne was tUUIIUhtg eattor ut nte "Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology" and is a past member of the National Research Council committee on low altitude wind shear and the National Academy of Sciences panel on weather observing systems. 
In addition, Serafin is a for­mer member of the executive committee of the American Meteorological Society and has served on more than 25 advi­sory committees and national panels. 
Serafm was inducted into the academy Oct. 5. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad! 
U S E A B R. 0 A D 
Looking for a good exchange rate to study abroad next semester? 

3.75 GPA and up=$1,500 Scholarship 3.50 GPA and up=$1,000 Scholarship Study abroad grants basetl on need also available. 
Syracuse University sponsors study abroad sites in Florence, Italy London, England Harare, Zimbabwe Madrid, Spain Strasbourg, France 
SU credit • Field trips/Traveling seminars • Internships • Study for a semester, year or summer Courses taught In English and in host country language 

SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD •119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-800..235-3472. 315-443-3471 

Thursday, Oct. 13, 1994 




Ha[[ar Parlor 
Showdown from 7:00-9:00 p.m. 

Voters to decide Kohl's fate 
By LARRY THORSON 
Associated Press 
BERLIN 

With the former East German Communists as a political wild card, German voters decide Sunday whether to leave Chancellor Helmut Kohl in office for another four years or perhaps force the country into a power-sharing deal. 
An opinion poll released Wednesday showed Kohl's cen­ter-right coalition with about 50 percent support. Other recent polls measured his sup­port at similar levels. 
Kohl, 64, has been chancellor since 1982. His Social Democratic challenger, Rudolf Scharping, 46, initially looked like a strong contender as he hammered Kohl's economic policies. But Kohl's prospects improved as Germany recov­ered from its worst recession since World War II. 
The poll by the Allensbach Institute said that 42 percent of voters who gave a party prefer­ence favored Kohl's Christian Democrat-Christian Social Union conservative alliance, and 8 percent backed the cen­trist Free Democrats, junior partners in the coalition gov­ernment. 
The Social Democrats were chosen by 35 percent of those polled, and their possible coali­tion partner, the leftist Alliance 90-Greens, by 8 percent. 
A sizable percentage of those polled -22 percent -hadn't yet decided how to vote. That's enough to swing Sunday's eleavAf o U'f s ab6-q of 2,000 people between Sept. 25 and Oct. 7 had a margin of error of plus or minus 2 percentage points. 
One possibility is that neither Kohl nor Scharping will win enough support to form a gov­ernment, forcing them to create a "grand coalition" with their rivals. Neither politician wants to contemplate such an out­come. 
"As a rule it means stagna­tion and promotes the political fringes and protest move­ments," Scharping told the Berlin daily Der Tagesspiegel. "No one can seriously wish for that." 
This year's political scramble is much more complicated than the election in December 1990, just two months after German unification. 
In tli.e midst of a national euphoria, Kohl sailed to victory as the "unity chancellor" who masterminded the merger of communist East Germany and democratic West Germany. His coalition got 55 percent of the 1990 vote. 
Now, the main political wild card is the eastern Communists, reformed into the Party for Democratic Socialism. They have shed the legacy of the Berlin Wall and the oppres­sive secret police and paint themselves as protectors of eastern Germans who feel left behind in the transition to free­market capitalism. 

A key to the next government may be how many of those easterners -one-fifth of Germany's 80 million citizens -vote for the former Communists. The Allensbach poll gave them 17 percent sup­port in eastern Germany and 4 percent nationwide. 
Germany's mixed proportion­al representation election law requires a party to get 5 per­cent of the vote to get a seat in the 656-member Bundestag, the lower house of parliament. An exception is made if a party wins three of the 328 single­seat races -then it gets seats in the Bundestag in proportion to its overall vote. 
The former communists have a good chance of winning three direct seats. With 4 percent of the vote, they could get 25 seats. In a close election, that could take enough seats away from Kohl's coalition to permit the Social Democrats to form a minority government. 
The Social Democrats have said they will not form a coali­tion with the former Communists. 
A year ago, with the economy in recession and his party on a losing streak in local and state elections, Kohl barely mustered 30 percent in the poll 
The Social Democrats slammed Kohl for Germany's high debt and unemployment. 
IMAGINE YOUR IDEA ON THE BACKS OF 40,000 IRISH FANS 
PLUS FREE BOOKS FOR THE SPRING 


DESIGN THE SHIRT '95 
ENTER YOUR CHOICE OF ORIGINAL ARTWORK TO THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 315 LaFORTUNE. 
ENTRIES MUST NOT EXCEED 12" X 15" 
LATEST CONSIDERATION DATE IS NOV. 21, 1994 
SKETCH MUST INCORPORATE A THEME 
EXAMPLES DISPLAYED IN THE EAST HALLWAY OF THE HUDDLE INCLUDE: 
-1990  NOTRE DAME LANDMARKS  
-1991  150 YEARS OF EXCELLENCE  
-1992  THE TRADITION CONTINUES  

AND THE TWO MOST POPULAR EVER 


-1993 ONWARD TO VICTORY -1994 WAKEUPTHEECHOES 

-SPRING SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS PAID BY ND BOOKSTORE -ANY SELECTED ENTRY BECOMES PROPERTY OF "THE SHIRT." 
-APPLICANT MUST STATE IN WRITING THAT SUBMITTED 
ARTWORK IS THEIR OWN ORIGINAL WORK. 


Companies encourage unnecessary drug use 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Drug makers improperly in­duce doctors and pharmacists to prescribe certain medicines, using marketing incentives that range from direct cash pay­ments to multimillion dollar re­search grants, regulators con­tended Wednesday. 
The result can be wrongful treatment, contended Benjamin Dobrin of Minneapolis. His doc­tor, now under indictment for accepting drug company kick­backs, prescribed a $30,000-a­year growth drug, Protropin, that Dobrin says he didn't need -and that cost his family its health insurance. 
"It seemed I was growing just fine," Dobrin, now a 5­feet-1 0 college student, told a House Small Business subcom­mittee. 
A vice president of Protropin manufacturer Genentech, Inc. and its drug distributor are charged with paying $1.1 mil­lion in kickbacks to get Dobrin's doctor to prescribe Protropin to some 350 chil­dren. 
Genentech also used private foundations to pay for height screenings in the nation's pub­lic schools, where the shortest children were referred to doc­tors. 
Critics contend such promo­tions induced doctors to pre­scribe Protropin for healthy but short children. The synthetic growth hormone is supposed to treat only hormone deficiency or renal insufficiency, which also stops growth. 
Genentech, which last week ended the school screenings, declined to testify Wednesday, but issued a statement saying the company's programs "have been in the interest of good public health." 
The Food and Drug Adminis­tration, Justice Department and federal health inspector general said they're investigat­ing numerous promotions in addition to Genentech. 
They include: payments of $80 each time a doctor pre­scribed one drug over a com­petitor; the pharmacist pay­ments; grants for scientifically questionable research; and gifts luring doctors to "educa­tional seminars" designed to promote one drug. 
"The key problem is the eco­nomic rewards for this illegal behavior are enormous," FDA Deputy Commissioner Mary Pendergast testified. "It's worth the risk." 
Just one payment of $100,000 in the Minneapolis scheme earned Genentech $4.4 million in patient referral rev­enue, said Inspector General June Gibbs Brown. 
Such promotions make doc­tors overly eager to prescribe, two fathers contended. 
Stanley Dobrin testified that his son, Benjamin, wasn't prop­erly tested for hormone defi­ciency before the Minneapolis doctor prescribed it. His older brother did indeed have low hormone levels and may have grown "an inch or two" from Protropin -but the bills cost the family $300,000 and its health insurance, he said. 
And John Towle of Charlotte, N.C., accused his doctor of ag­gressively pushing therapy for his son, Brodie. Towle's entire family is fairly short, and he said he resented the doctor asking whether Brodie would one day blame his parents for withholding the chance at a few more inches. 
The doctor, Mark Parker, is married to a nurse who de­signed and ran the Charlotte school system's height screen­ings with a $108,000 Genen­tech grant. 
"I don't feel I'm an aggres­sive prescriber," Parker re­sponded, denying ever recom­mending Protropin because Brodie hadn't been properly tested. 
Parker insisted he never got a patient from the Charlotte screening, which he vehe­mently defended. 
"Many children who do not have a family doctor or pedia­trician who measures them an­nually are measured every year at school," Parker said. He offered to provide the subcommittee chairman, Rep. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., with records on his 112 growth-hor­mone patients. 



WIN ATRIP FOR TWO 
TONEWYORKFOR 
THE 1995 BIG EAST 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
TOURNAMENT! 

KICK OFF THE 1994 95 
• 




IRISH 
WIN A TRIP FOR TWO TO LOS ANGELES TO SEE THE IRISH PLAY UCLA! 
t_....;.~----BASKETBALL 
SEASON AT .---po-,N-T--:AN-=o-=FR:=EE;;-J'
3

NIKE and CHAMPION 

MIDNIGHT! T~ROW CONTESTS!

PRODUCT GIVEAWAYS! 
LIVE MUSIC BY CAMPUS BAND ''TRUE NORTH'' THIS FRIDAY • 11 P.M. • JOYCE CENTER MAIN ARENA Call 631·6095 for info. and shooting contest registration 
Shooting contests will begin at 11 p.m. Call 631-6095 to register. When you call 631-6095, just leave your name, which contest you ••"!i!~t !O participate in (three-point o.r,f~~~~.~X~~) a~d you must be present at 11 p.m. Friday night at th~ JACC.'11~~11 ~~~11~· ..... . 
Summit examines economy Doomed satellite dies 


in Venus atmosphere 
By FIIADELFO ALEMAN 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA 

Vice President AI Gore met with Central American leaders Wednesday to wrap up an agreement that would help the war-scarred region recover economically while preserving 
the environ­ /  j  
ment.  ~  1  
The  two- 
day summit is to examine  ~·  
ways to pro­ 
tect the envi­ 
ronment,  
encourage orderly eco- AI Gore  
n  o m  i  c  

growth and bolster civil rule in a region wracked by years of insurgencies and repressive military governments. 
El Salvador's and Nicaragua's economies still have not recov­ered from more than a decade of civil wars and a leftist insur­rection is still sputtering in Guatemala. 
The environment dominated the agenda, but Gore also planned to sound out the Cen­tral American leaders on their call for creation of a free trade agreement similar to that struck by, Washington with Mexico and Canada. 
An agreement to set up "An Alliance for Sustained Devel­opment" was expected to be signed Wednesday by Gore and the presidents of Panama, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, Costa Rica and an envoy from Belize. 
"We feel truly heartened with respect to the alliance because it embraces the principles we all hold in common: the consol­idation of democratic institu­tions, support of a new model of regional security, and the supremacy of civil authority," Gore said upon arrival in Man­agua. 
Also attending the meeting was Cesar Gaviria, the secre­tary-general of the Orga­nization of American States. 
Central American leaders have been saying they see the North American Free Trade Agreement launched Jan. 1 as a model for greater prosperity in the region. The only excep­tion is Panama, which wants a separate arrangement with Washington. 
Central America has a population of 30 million people and traded $4.5 billion in goods with the United States last year. 
"We believe Central America is a very important geopolitical region that cannot remain at a disadvantage with Mexico in regard to investments and trade with the United States," said Salvadoran President Ar­mando Calderon Sol. 

The Clinton administration has indicated it is reluctant to let Central America join NAFTA now, mainly because of huge disparities between the U.S. economy and those in the re­gion. 
But President Bush, who launched the NAFTA project, had said it would be the first step in creating a hemisphere­wide trading bloc. NAFTA is al­ready the world's biggest free trade area. 
Richard Feinberg, senior White House assistant for Inter­American Affairs, said the Clinton administration would not respond formally until the Hemispheric Summit of 34 na­tions in December in Miami. 
The meeting will be the first formal conference of the West­ern Hemisphere nations since a 1967 meeting in Uruguay. It is expected to be the largest gath­ering of hemispheric leaders since President Carter invited leaders of the Americas to Washington for a 1977 signing ceremony for the Panama Canal treaties. 
ByJANE E. ALLEN 
Associated Press 
PASADENA 
Magellan dived toward its doom today in the atmosphere of Venus after scientists wear­ing black armbands performed the last experiment in a suc­cessful five-year mission. 
Scientists received the last signals from the craft at 3:02 
a.m. PDT, when power aboard the Magellan craft apparently ran too low to continue trans­missions, said project manager Douglas G. Griffith at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
Although the mission was considered dead, researchers planned to watch for signals until midday as "a shot in the dark," and the final crash into Venus' surface was probably still a day away, Griffith said. 
On Tuesday, five measured thruster bursts changed the orbit of the $900 million space­craft, starting it on a descent through murky miles of sear­ing-hot carbon dioxide and sul­furic acid clouds. 
While no longer sending data Earthward, the craft was still orbiting Venus this morning, steadily losing altitude. 
It was expected to reach the surface -possibly in several pieces because of the crushing atmospheric pressure -early Thursday afternoon. But there will never be any way of know­ing exactly how Magellan met its doom. The plunge provided information that could result in construction of more stream­lined spacecraft. With no way to return the failing spacecraft to Earth, researchers decided to squeeze the last bit of data from its demise. 
"It will slow down to almost nothing and flutter down to its death," Griffith said before communications were lost. 
The fall was an experiment to explore the spacecraft's aero­dynamics as it plows through Venus' atmosphere. The in­formation could aid in design­ing sp:tcecraft that can stay in orbit longer. It also may help in programming the flight of the Mars Global Surveyor, which will be launched in 1996. 
On Tuesday, mission director James M. Stewart passed out a roll of black crepe and mission specialists made themselves armbands. 
"Sure, it seems kind of sad to us to do it, but we're ending the mission on a very positive note," he said. 
"Sentimental? Yes," Lock said. "This has been a fabulous mission." 
Magellan, launched in 1989, completed more than 15,000 orbits around Venus since 1990. Using radar, it mapped virtually all of Earth's nearest neighbor. For the first time, the bright and mysterious star be­came a world of towering vol­canoes, gigantic rifts and crisp­edged craters. 
The mission provided more data than all previous National Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration missions combined, with years of analysis still ahead as scientists try to draw conclusions about Venus. 

Please Recycle The Observer 
INTERVIEW SUITS & ALTERATIONS 

We offer the best quality & best service at the best price in town. We provide the best selection (Perry Ellis, Nino Cerruti, Austin Hours: Reed, Bill Blass) for $250-350. M-F 
Sat 8a.m.-6p.m. j ~, ~~ ff$i!:!:if:J
9a.m.-3p.m. _______ .. 
Tuwn & Country Shopping Center, 2452 Miracle Lane, Mishawaka, ln. 





a in adlvcerlfi§ing ceiiJhcero 

LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC. 

The Leo Burnett Company is the largest ad agency in Chicago. And the man who created it graduated with a Bachelor ofArts. So don't let the fact that you're a History major or even a Chemical Engineering major keep you away from our presentation about a career in Client Service. At Leo Burnett, we're interested in people. Not majors. 
Thursday, October 13th, 7-9 pm University Club • 


page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 13, 1994 

Sexuality an issue Money will fund more police 
By MICHAEL SNIFFEN When an officer patrolling his ceived grants last year to hire a 
Associated Press Ocean City, Md., beat on a bi­total of 2,000 police officers
in New York election 
By DAVID BAUDE 
Associated Press 
ALBANY 

When Karen Burstein won the Democratic nomination for attorney general, her homo­sexuality was not an issue. A month before the general elec­tion, it has suddenly become one, in a campaign that could test New York's reputation for liberal politics. 
Burstein and Tony Miller, who is running for California secretary of state, will be the first openly gay Americans elected to statewide office if they win in November, accord­ing to the Gay and Lesbian Victory Fund. 
Burstein never hid her sex­uality on the campaign trail, but she hasn't exactly played it up, either. And after she defeated incumbent G. Oliver Koppell and two other liberal Democrats in September, her Republican opponent, Dennis Vacco, said he wouldn't make it an issue in next month's gen­eral election. 
But one of the state's most prominent Republicans, New York City's Staten Island bor­ough president, Guy Molinari, said Monday that Vacco was being too much of a gentleman. 
"The next attorney general shouldn't be an admitted les­bian," Molinari said. 
The remark was quickly con­demned by gay rights groups, Republican gubernatorial can­didate George Pataki and Moli­nari's own brother, Robert Molinari of Santa Barbara, Calif., who is gay. 
Vacco refused to denounce Molinari. He said he still didn't want to talk about Burstein's homosexuality, had nothing to do with Molinari's statements, and didn't think he could tell a supporter what to say. 
That left gay rights activists suspicious. "These things don't happen by accident," said William 

Waybourn, executive director of the Washington-based Gay and Lesbian Victory Fund. "They're pretty well thought­out, well-planned and definite attempts at gay-baiting. He's won. Basically he got what he wanted by making it an issue." 
In a state with one of the na­tion's largest homosexual populations, politicians are watching closely to see whether the uproar benefits Vacco or Burstein. 
Polls have shown Burstein with a healthy lead over Vacco, but there are enough unde­cided voters -33 percent in a Quinnipiac College poll released this week -that the campaign is far from decided. 

WASHINGTON 
President Clinton released a $200 million down payment to­day that will help 392 commu­nities put 2,770 new police offi­cers on the street. 
"We're determined to hit the ground running," Clinton said at an upbeat announcement ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House. "We together have made a commitment to make the American people freer of fear." 
Hundreds of police chiefs, mayors and other local officials gathered for the announce­ment, including one who deliv­ered a persuasive argument for the value of community polic­ing. 
cycle in August heard the cries of a woman being assaulted in a nearby townhouse, police were able to act quickly, Police Chief David Massey said. They arrested a serial rapist linked to 22 other sexual assaults. 
"Every additional police offi­cer we can put on the streets does make a difference," Massey said. The bicycle-patrol officer was financed under an­other federal program, he added. 
The 392 communities that will share in the new money were chosen from 2,450 that had applied for but failed to re­ceive shares of $150 million in police-hiring grants distributed last year. Some 250 cities re-who should finish training and arrive on the streets this fall. 
"We've been meeting daily since August, planning these grants," Associate Attorney General John Schmidt told re­porters Tuesday. 
The $200 million is the first installment of $8.8 billion au­thorized by the crime bill over the next six years to hire more police. An additional $1.1 bil­lion will be distributed over the next 12 months, based on applications now being designed. 
Communities must submit plans for using the new officers in community policing projects that strengthen ties between officers and civilians. 





l;si\"EHSITY OF NcrrHE DAI\IF. 
SPEAKER SYMPOSIUM "The Role of Globalization and T·echnology in the 
Automotive Industry"  
Agenda IO:OOam  Friday, October 14, 1994 Introductions: Mr. Larry Conley Director ofOperations Planning and Technology Training, Ford Motor Co.  
Mr. Ed Mertz President, Buick Division, General Motors Co.  
I 1:45am  Break -refreshments served  
12:00pm  Mr. Jack Kelly President, Kelly & Associates, Inc. BMW North American Representative  
I 2:45pm  Students are invited to speak with the representatives.  

Sponsored by liN TEK-1/N KOTE and the MBA BUSINESS AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT CLUB 
Morris Inn Where: Peace Institute Auditorium When: Friday, October 14, lO:OOam 

Peace Institute Auditorium 

Business Attire Preferred 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 13, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne F<y Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Rt:gan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems /Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Genera1lnformation 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
page9 


• I, FARRINGTON 
Notre Dame 1994 or Lenin rad 1942? You decide 
The second hand sweeps along the ascending arc of the clock-face; from its excruciatingly slow approach to twelve, cut to a bloodshot eyeball, a throbbing temple, a palsied hand. The second hand crosses the twelve without acknowledgment; seconds, hours, days, months, Granger, Roseland, Mishawaka. Angela to 31, Tuesdays and Thursdays, 
12:10 and 5:15, due back on February First. Endless, demanding minutiae: crucifixion by coordinates. 
After much thought (if you can call it that) I would like to announce having isolated what I personally find most ter-
Josh Ozersky 


rifying about life at Notre Dame, and I will be surprised and disappointed if you 
from the Hesburgh library to the need to express: the maddening shrink­am before this ancient Macintosh. It's don't agree. Here it is: a student's LaFortune Student Center. I have had age of life and soul in this odd area. not all bad; and it's not for long, either. sense of freedom here, on the best day, the beef stir fry and the chicken stir-fry. A tiny campus, bereft of private fran­And, as I tried to convince myself in the with the most open skies and his or her The infinite spaces of the Internet are chises, stuck in the middle of a land­last column, there are a few good things pockets crammed with money, is compa­filled with preening vulgarities, petty vit­locked area bereft of anything else: about this area, too. But the encom­rable to that of a rhesus monkey in a riol and idle chatter. Enough! there is your formula for irritability, for passing banality of life in South Bend is cosmetics-company test cage. I rebel against this state of affairs. Put atrophy and ego-dissolution. Add to something that has to be faced. Or does 
Now, I don't mean to overstate my me on the milk cartons. Book Sting for that the absences of friends and family, it? Maybe it's not South Bend that's case. But that's just the way it is. a benefit concert. Get me my white and isolation-chamber conditions are boring and banal, but just me. After all, 
The desperate, desolate, Chekovian Bronco. I want to get on the causeway. approached. What can we do to keep Thoreau lived in a hut eating chili every ennui is a constant here. "We're only Readers may have noticed that this ourselves sane? Some of my fellow night, and he was a much more interest­ninety miles from Chicago!" we chirp, column has fallen into a monotonous graduate students have big happy fami­ing writer than me. Or what about trying to convince each other we're not groove. How, I asked myself could this lies of their own, others have religious Malcolm X, sitting there in prison read­trapped rats. As if a ninety mile ride to have happened, with my wide-ranging vocations. The closest I come to ing the dictionary when the guards a strange, impossibly spread-out, and interests and vast repertoire of stand-up Christian peace and fulfillment is when I weren't looking? Well, those fellows are expensive area like Chicago were any routines? The answer led me to the am preparing some unwieldy piece of towers of strength, and I am weak and kind of solution to the stifling boredom, present column, the last such of its sort meat for a loved one's contented eyes unimaginative, vulnerable to solitude isolation, and hopelessness of our for a long while. Next week I return to and smoke-clouded palate. But still, the and bad Chinese food. But I am thinking Michiana exile. "Yea, by the waters of pop-culture topics, with occasional paradox of it all! A Catholic University, of you, too, reader! Maybe my hope that St. Joseph we wept..." sneering asides-God, how loathsome the whole purpose of which is to expand you, also, share these pains will keep me 
Freedom. What does it mean? I have my persona has become! But why? I soul and mind, and which has the oppo­from imploding entirely. 
forgotten what it was like to see further was the original good-time guy, smilin' site effect in every moment spent out­than my next dinner date, or shrink­Ed himself! The answer is something side of its masses and classrooms. Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in wrapped acquisition at the University we all feel, but only I, with my egoism Dag. My lumbago pains me as I reflect history.Park Mall. I have paced off my world and heroic compositional skills, feel a on this, hunched over like the old man I 
• llOONESBURY 
a;aL,ITHINK ON 7H& BeACH.
50 WHAT'CJ YOU 

7Hirr'S 50ARI­H£3'!?JlETlrlOVW
lHINK.OFMIOIAU­
ANNA-JOHNCAN IN FfilJir1 T&X4S
ROY,qJf)? 6N'TH& 
tl/l!.AR IT. 7H&Y 50H&COUWRt:P­
7H8NIU5T? 
SHARE RE5eNTU5,.. \ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
H&Y, Y'AU.' tuHbRE'S 
THe 
OCEAN~ 
_/'-" 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''Quevoulez-vous?" 
-Samuel Beckett 

page 10 Thursday, October 13, 1994 
VIEWPOINT 
• lETTERS TO THE EDmlR 
Ignorance strains ND/SMC relations
Fidel root of pain, not U.S. embargo 
D Edi ··h 
·.... ear ... tor: ......· . . ·'<i":' < ,, <> , '"'' \ 
wa.S stunned by the' gross distoriJim of fact that appeared ill The Observer monday, Oct. 3 (The ·art of 'Frje:m:lsbipment:1< This di~tortion appeared in the article dealing with aid caravap.s from the United States to Cuba .. 
These caravans are described alk,"massNe grassroot campaigns $at directly challenge the 
U.S. embargo of Cuba." The article also describes ..confused Americans" unsure if their · country is in the right. Perhaps one reason why they are so confused is because they do not kn()w all ofthe facts. 
The caravans intend only "to· offer &id to sP,f.. fering victims," then they are not challenging·tbe U.S; embargo at all. .·. .·· ...,. .··.. . .'. 
.Fidel (:astro would like the,worldto believ{l that Cuba's economic woes are cau:>ed bythe 
U.S. embargo. The true cause of the hardships in Cuba is, however, the iiictator himself;, Whenever people's rights and liberties are oppressed t1leif suffering is the result: Communism has been shown to be a failed economic system, so is it really surprising that Cuba's economy is failing? 
Since J have a Cuban heritage~ tpis issue affects me personally. I am proud of my conn~ try's efforts to oppose (;astro's dictatorship; and mno way do I attribute the suffering in Cuba to an embargo, especially when lmmanitarian a.i<lis permitted. i>iid\ .· . 'tiC . . 'YIW 
.''"'' .·. 
'f\ilf the media isto present an accurate portray· al of the U.S. embargo of Cuba then it mus sure to g-et the/fa. · rai8'~t, Oth~:rvylse confusion caused h a complex.issile never be resolved. ­Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to Erin Kish's statements published on Friday, Oct. 7, 1994, concerning the Maya Angelou lecture. Many fallaci­es must be addressed. 
The lecture was scheduled to be held at O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. This is the largest lecture facility between both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's cam­puses. Angelou has specific prereq­uisites which must be met in order to appear at all. On€ such require­ment is that she will only speak in a lecture hall, not a sporting arena or athletic facility. 
Neither Notre Dame nor Saint Mary's students had an opportunity to purchase tickets. The tickets were not for sale. The event was a gift from Saint Mary's College for our Sesquicentennial Celebration to the entire community during Multicultural Week. Because the event was a gift to the community, Saint Mary's College first distributed 200 tickets to the general public and 320 through the Multicultural Affairs Office. The remaining allot­ment of 900 tickets were offered to the Saint Mary's College community. This included our founders, the Sisters of the Holy Cross, students, faculty, staff, and alumnae. Seating for any event is limited and, as always, is on a first come first serve basis. 
The friendly relationship that Kish understands that exists between our two schools is not apparent in her letter. The malicious tone that was expressed does not exhibit the ami­able attributes that were cited. We must address the statement, "Saint Mary's should not be given the same opportunities that I am given with­out giving something in return." 

Friendship is not based upon the things one gets in return. The Notre Dame community has the opportuni­ty to purchase tickets to any Saint Mary's College event at the same student price that SMC students pay. For all of the events that are open to the ND community, very few stu­dents take advantage of the opportu­nity to attend, why is this one lec­ture different? 
We enjoy participating in the vari­ous events that Notre Dame spon­sors. However, we must point out that all the events Miss Kish men­tioned in the article are ones that must be paid for. We also wanted to note that football tickets were 28 dollars more expensive for SMC stu­dents, although we stand on the same bleachers, yell the same cheers, and are part of the same spirit while we encourage our same team. 
Notre Dame is a very special place and so is Saint Mary's. We believe our college experience here is enhanced by the presence and close connection of both institutions. By drawing upon the unique qualities that each has to offer, all are able to learn and grow in ways that would not otherwise be possible. I hope that Kish will be able to set free the bitterness she is clenching to and open her heart to the enriching pos­sibilities awaiting her at Saint Mary's. 
JENNIFER GREEN 
Sophomore 
LISA FORTMAN 
Senior 


• OuR TuRN 
Ask the right questions to get the right answers 
Imagine this everyday sort of scenario: Chan Li, a freshman from Sorin Hall, and Cindy Collins, a freshman from Holy Cross Hall, are going down the front steps of HCH to walk through the Saint Mary's campus on a beautiful autumn afternoon. Suddenly a small dog, with a middle-aged woman attached to the end of the leash, comes charging out the front door, jumping all over Chan and Cindy in wild canine enthusiasm. 
Elena Malits 


Cindy, a polite young woman, turns to the woman trying (unsuccessfully) to calm down the dog, and says, "Sister Elena, I'd like you to meet Chan U, my friend from ND who comes from the Republic of China. Chan, this is Sister Elena Malits and her dog Kalby." They exchange a few pleasantries and then start to take their walk. 
Chan is a bit puzzled and asks: "Who is she?" Cindy answers: "I told you, Sister Elena Malits. She lives in Holy Cross with her dog and two parakeets. She's a faculty member in, 1 think, the Religious Studies department." 
Chan is not satisfied: "But that only tells me where she lives and what she does and that she likes animals. I'm curious about who she really is!" Clearly Chan is destined to be a philoso­pher. Cindy, who intends to major in music, is annoyed: "How do you answer such a question? I don't know what else to say except that she's a Catholic nun and has been around Saint Mary's a long time. I think she even graduated from there back in the Dark Ages." 
Not to be put off so lightly, Chan pur­sues his inquiry. "Well, what is a Catholic nun, or for that matter what is a Catholic? There have been all these articles in The Observer about 'the Catholic character of Notre Dame' and the 'Catholic identity of Saint Mary's College,' and I don't get any of it. I come from a Buddhist background, and though I've been at ND for two months, I really do not understand what all this Catholic stuff is about. Can you explain what makes a person or a group of peo­ple Catholic? Or a college or university for that matter?" 
Cindy throws up her hands in exas­peration. "How should I know? I am Catholic because I was born into a Catholic family and raised to think of myself as a Catholic and be glad of it. I've never even thought about it much, until I started taking my Religious Studies course, and now I'm all con­fused." 
Unfortunately, Kalby does not allow her to answer these questions and is more intersted in the grass by the ceme­tery, so Sister Elena starts thinking about the phone call she had last night from Angela Fazio Higgins ('56). 
Angela vehemently proclaimed that she continues to be upset by the lit­erature that comes out of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. "I don't have time to write letters, so I'm calling you, my for­mer classmate and long-time friend, and a member of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross to explain some things to me." Angela went on and on until finally Elena got a chance to croak into the receiver, "Angela, I understand your concern, but I can't talk to you now. I've had laryngitis for the past few weeks. But I promise that I'll think about your questions and either write you a letter or phone you when I get back my voice." 
In wondering how to approach Angela's questions, Elena thought of her visit to a well know Quaker college a few years ago to do a seminar at the invita­tion of an old friend who taught there. She remembered one conversation in particular. "Tom, why is this place called a Quaker college when less than 15 percent of the students are Quakers and even a smaller percentage of the faculty?" 
"That's hard to answer, Elena, but 

there is no doubt in my mind that this started out as and continues to be a Quaker college. Not the simplicity of the buildings and their furnishings. You're here doing a seminar on Thomas Merton's writings on peace, and surely have picked up the extensive and inten­sive interest among the students in issues pertaining to peace, nonviolence, and human rights. Even at faculty meetings we come to our positions not by voting, but in the old Quaker tradi­tion of talking things out until a consen­sus is reached with which everyone agrees." 
Elena's questions became more and more explicit, but Tom's responses con­tinued to be suggestive rather than pre­cise. The conversation would have dri­ven a chemist mad, but she was a the­ologian talking with an anthropologist, and she understood why he was handling her questions in such a manner. 
So how about the "Catholic character" of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. What kind of questions might be raised that go beyond head-count at Mass and the number of courses students take that deal explicitly with some aspect of Catholic doctrine, his­tory or moral practice? While Kalby was preoccupied with the squirrels, Elena imagined some ques­tions she would like explored in ex~ amining the "Catholicity" of these insti­tutions. She came up with a few (not in order of priority) that would be on her list. 
What is the quality and style of human relationships at the place? How do administrators treat faculty, faculty treat students, students treat each other and the folks who do manual labor at the institution? Do people have a sense of their own tradition, either as individ­ual Catholics or of these Catholic institu­tions of higher learning? What is the 
'The conversation would have driven a chemist mad, but she 
was a theologian talking with and anthropologist, and she understood why 
he was handling her questions in such a manner.' 
quality and availability of liturgy on campus? What do the students do for fun and how do they go about it? How much discussion do you hear in the din­ing hall or student lounge about the or­dination of women? 
What about the Church's involvement in health care issues? What lies behind the abortion debate? Where can some­one go who wants more out of life than working on Wall Street? How is respect for human dignity expressed on cam­pus? What can be done about having to endure too many superficial sermons? Is there, or should there be, something called Catholic philosophy? Does good art have much to do with a Catholic edu­cation? 
Can graduates honestly say they received a Catholic college education if they cannot recognize names such as St. Augustine, Dorothy Day, Paul VI, Giotto, Palestrina, St. Thomas Aquinas, Gerard Manley Hopkins, Dante, Isaac Hecker, Edith Stein, St. Thomas 
More,  Dom  Helder  
Camara,  Sister  
Madeleva,  Oscar  

Romero, St. Joan of Arc and St. Jerome? 
They had walked a long time and Kalby wanted his afternoon nap. Elena, too, was a bit fatigued from strug­
gling with questions necess1;try to ask, though perhaps impossible to answer. She went to bed that night thinking, "Oh, there is one more question about Catholic character and identity I should have added to my list. I still am won~ dering what students thought (if they thought) aboutthe expression on those ubiquitous T -shirts of last year implied -Catholics vs. Convicts?" 
Sister Elena Malits, C.S.C. is professor of Religious Studies at Saint Mary's College. Our Turn is a weekly. rotating column where members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community dis­cus the issues ofCatholic Character. 

ACC~NT 
Thursday, October 13, 1994 page 11 
• MUSIC REVIEW 
The Cranberries return with another dreamscape 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
No Need to Argue, The Cranberries second album, comes hot off the buzz created by their debut, Everybody Else is doing it, so Why Can't We? and finds them attempting to deal with success. 
"The success seems to impress c:.ther people more than it impresses us," said Noel Hogan, who plays guitar. 
Hogan is joined by his brother Mike on bass, Feargal Lawlor on drums, and Dolores O'Riordan providing vocals. 
"None of us take things too seriously," O'Riordan said. "And if it all ended tomorrow, we'd think 'All well and good, we had a good time."' 
No Need to Argue stays true to the same general layout that made The Cranberries an international sensation in the first place: dreamy vignettes, honest lyrics, and O'Riordan's unmistak­ably pungent vocals. On this album, however, their sound is more polished, more carefully produced, more crisp, and just more fresh; The Cranberries have developed their own music and will hopefully break free of all the compar­isons (which were accurate then) that plagued them and were the only dark spot of their debut. 
O'Riordan's vocals are still the focal point of the group. Mike Hogan's bass carries her voice wherever it goes, as it jumps unpredictably from pitch to pitch after so little as one word. O'Riordan, who grew up singing in church choirs, may have a voice that sounds good regardless of what she is singing, but it is tailor-made for this band's version of "balladeer rock." 
"Zombie," the first single of the new album is an edgy masterpiece which echoes the style of the Welsh Darling Buds more than anything else. Lawlor's drums are wound tightly and each slam of the snare sounds like a gunshot. Its abrasive feel is undoubtedly the reason it was the first single released; it is unlike anything on The Cranberries' first album. The move has proven suc­cessful too as "Zombie" debuted at num­ber three on the alternative rock charts. 
Vintage cranberries' style is still pre­sent on No Need to Argue, however. "Ode to My Family" features O'Riordan's Southwestern Irish country twang as she sings, "My father/He liked me/Oh he liked me/Does anyone care." Noel Hogan's high-pitched guitar strumming and an ever-present tap on a tam­bourine complete the landscape. 
The other characteristic of The Cranberries' music, which is fluid on the new album, is the recurring theme of depression, loss, and regret. Although this theme is beautifully crafted into the music, it does keep The Cranberries as a two-dimensional band. 
"Disappointment" is a bass-heavy groove which highlights O'Riordan's fairy tale lyric structure, monosyllabic rhymes based on quick. short sentences. Noel Hogan chooses a flamenco-style riff pattern for this song and it works magi­cally. 
The most depressing line of the album, however, comes from the song "I can't be with You." O'Riordan is about to finish the second chorus when she wails, "I wanted to be the mother of your child and now it's just farewell." Ironically enough, the drums are upbeat and chorus is explosive. In the mean­time, O'Riordan, who always provides her own background vocals, designs an especially gorgeous arrangement for this song. 
In essence, The Cranberries have bro­ken away from the mold of all the "girl­groups" and have developed a sound of their own. However, as they continue to make music, the question remains whether or not they can create good music that is not in such a depressing vein. 


Campus solution to the 'bad hair day' 
By PAITI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Have you ever had one of those extremely bad hair days when even a baseball cap couldn't hide the condition of your mane? And you fret and curse and wonder if God is playing some kind of sick joke on you. 
You can't slick it back. It's out of control. Don't take the scissors into your own hands. Instead, tread on down to Campus Hair Crafters on the Saint Mary's Campus. 
"Campus Hair Crafters is open to anyone. Any Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross students, faculty, staff, or community members are wel­come," said Elizabeth (Betty) DeWinter, who owns and oper­ates the salons with her hus­band Ron DeWinter. 
According to DeWinter, since the salon is located on a college campus, prices are reduced in comparison to the downtown salon prices. Since Campus Hair CraftPrs is accessible to many college students, the DeWinter family makes its ser­vices more affordable for col­lege students, who make up a majority of the customers. 
And these affordable services are numerous. "Currently, the two most popular features of the salon are the tanning beds and hair color highlighting," according to Joanne Haynes. Campus Hair Crafters manager and stylist. 
The salon menu also includes hair cuts and bang trims for women and men. Hair styling, including French Twists and updo's for that dance or special occasion, is also available. 
Hair Crafters also specializes in perms and hair coloring. Haynes recalls an experience in which one student came to her in tears after experimenting with the wrong hair color. Haynes fixed her problem with the corrective hair color. Haynes said that she and the student practically "cried tears of joy" when Haynes restored her original hair color. 
"The salon also employs a highly qualified nail techni­cian," according to DeWinter. She works at the campus salon two days per week and she is also available by advanced ap­pointment. 
The salon also sells hair and skin products. Skin care and make-up consultations are available upon request. Likewise, this year's newest feature, the pedicure, is avail­able by appointment. 
Campus Hair Crafters espe­cially works to remain current and keep up with the newest styles and technology. "Ron (DeWinter) has been an educa­tor in the industry for many years. He is the president of the local hairdresser's associa­tion," said his wife. 


Haynes agreed, saying that Ron DeWinter stresses educa­tion in the haircare industry. Therefore, Campus Hair Crafters carries the newest sa­lon products and services. 
"We emphasize customer sat­isfaction at Hair Crafters," said DeWinter. 
"Ron stresses that it's not the quantity {of customers served) that's important. Rather it is important to focus on the qual­ity of the service provided," added Haynes. 
Students feel that the campus salon accommodates their needs. Holy Cross Hall sopho­more Leslie Field said, "I don't have my car on campus, so Hair Crafters is very conve­nient. And the people there are always friendly." 
"At the beginning of this year, Haynes took off four inches of my hair for one of my favorite cuts ever. They do really good work at Hair Crafters. but they also get to know their cus­tomers on a personal level. They always call me by name," Field added. 
LeMans Hall sophomore Anne Korte agrees. "They provide friendly, consistent service. And it's like you're at Cheers­Everybody knows your name" Korte said. 
The campus salon is open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday through Friday. It is also open from noon to 6 p.m. on Monday and from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on "away football game" Saturdays. 
"We do take appointments after these hours by request. After all, we are here to serve the community and to accom­modate our customers," Haynes said. 
Campus Hair Crafters will also provide make-overs before dances or any day upon ad­vanced request. Customers may also request products or gift certificates from the down­town store. DeWinter encour­ages customers to take advan­tage of the many services the salon offers. 
"The future for Campus Hair Crafters is bright, as the Office of Student Affairs has been very cooperative with publicity poli­cies for the campus salon. Perhaps the salon will expand to employ more workers and carry even more products," said Haynes. 
Some students, however, see no need for change. "I like Hair Crafters just the way it is," said Boly Cross Hall junior Cora Calgano. 


page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 13, 1994 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day &om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classifieds 

cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sale: Studs. All Remaining Games Need 1 BYU stud; 2 BYU GA's For Sale: 1 Navy Stud. 
Sailing Cruise! Free brochure Call Tom at2042 call George @x1939 Call Nikki@ 4-4514
NOTICES PERSONAL
1 (800)359-9808 ­
I I
NEED 5 BYU GA'S -CALL Joe @ NEEDED: I need GA's for BYU, Navy and AF. The superbowl of employer presen­• I desperately NEED 1 Navy GA * x2765 2BYUGA'S Please call if u can help ............. ...•............ tations! Info on a career in Client • for my newlywed best friend. Will pay top dollarllll Call Tony@ 4-3883 SEINFEST '94!! Service with Leo Burnett. * PLEASE CALL 4-4320 I NEED 8 (YES, 8) BYU GA's Call Brian at 272-2376 1ST ANNUAL SUB COMEDY TAL­TONIGHT, 7PM. University Club. all CALL AMY X2652 I need 4 GA's for the Airforce ENTSHOWI majors welcome. BABYSITTER -2 children 1-2 half For Sale: 2 BYU Ga's Game. Call Ashley 284-4310. WATCH FOR SIGNUPS FOR 
days per wk. Occasional evenings. Rooms for rent. BYU & Navy 30 Yard line Thanks. AUDITIONS AT DINING HALLS Are you wondering about your sex­$5.00 hr. 272·5029 games. Call 255-9005 for more Best Offer. x3438 -10/11-13!1-YOU COULD BE THE uality? Want to talk about it? information. I will be your best friend for a BYU NEXT JERRY SEINFELD!I 
GA or student ticket. ­

Come find support Am 300 ······-···························· (There's also 
Counseling Center at 7:30 tonight FOR RENT NEED G.A. TIX TO NO VS BYU. Desperately need 2-3 BYU GA's money involved). Call Cara. 284-THE COPY SHOP CALL JOE @ 287-4561 BEFORE Please call Chris @ 1527 4310. in LaFortune Student Center now 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, 11P.M. -accepts VISA, MC, and MAC cards Downtown book wholesaler seeks NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED I have 4 roundtrip plane tix to Please! I need 1 BYU GAll Call for your copying needs. warehouse workers Flexible hours BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO STUDTIX-Orlando that leave on the Thursday Mary Beth at x4220 ­& wkend work available 232-8500 NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE LAST 3 HOME GAMES before the FSU game. I'll sell them -I need a ride to and from NJ for X22 ask for Bryan OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219-CALL 271-1249 WITH OFFER for $200 or best offer. Call Trout at For sale: 2 NAVY stud.tix call2946 October break. I will share driving 
773-2034 271-1390. -and expenses. PROFESSIONAL TYPING by NEED 1 BYUGA Lara x2518 
J 

Angie. Special student rate: $1.25 THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & WANTED 2 NAVY GA's & PARK. PASS Call Chris x3767 ­per page. Resumes start at $9 .. BREAKFAST-Historic Home, quiet for sale -make offer Female Grad Students Located one block west of I USB. setting, 4 guest rooms, shared Two GA Tickets to Peter @ x3533 I need 1 Navy or 1 Air Force GA Need 1 more roommate-Cali 237·0967. baths. 20 minutes to campus. the BYU Game Please Help. Tom 3253 Oak Hill $300/mo. 273-6153 I 
616-695-6321. Urgent:Need 4 BYU GAs or stud Call ASAP with your Call Rick x1919 NEED 2 BYU GA'S -1862 KATIE ADAMS is Finally LEGAL! SUBLET efficiency apt for next tickets! 4-2617 Wish her a WILD 21st! 
......................................

Attention members of sem. Call 233-4960 after 6 pm. I NEED NAVY GAs. CALL WENDY TROOP NOTRE DAME @ X4708 **'BYU or NAVY STUDENT hey you caring people ... Lodging for NO football games-near Need 2-3 Airforce GAs. Leslie 273-Tlx·················· THANK YOU for wearing your pur-There is campus 233-87 45 after 9303 Need 2 BYU GAs ***call Gretchen @ 284-5261 to pie ribbons and showing your 
......

ONLY ONE CLASS TONIGHT 5:00pm -call AB at 273-0862 incredible support! from 8 pm to 9 pm I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call ********** make an offer ..............
............................................

in 219 Rockne. Kristine at 4-3806. Thank you Need 2 BYU GAs Hey you Lesbians and Bisexuals 
FOR SALE 

VERY MUCH! -call ABat 273-0862 at Saint Mary's: you are Beautiful 
I NEED 4 BYU G.A.'S and we LOVE you I Selling one-way plane ticket South NEED 1 STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR AIR NEED: 2 BYU GA's & 1 Married CALL MIKE X4073 Bend to Providence, Chris X1955. FORCE. CALL LOU @ 233-4008. Std. Call JARED 288-8141 -'#!Hey you QUEER FOLKS#!'
'LOST & FOUND I ­
NEED 1 or 2 NAVY GA-willing to and all our cool and supportive 

486 Tenex multimedia tower com­I NEED A. F. G.A.'s SALE 4-6 STD TIX FOR ANY buy or trade for air force GA. call friends ... This weekend is your last LOST STUDENT I.D. NEAR GATE puter & monitor. Loaded with many Call Dave 634-1198 REMAINING GAME. 273-3166 ann x4544 chance to attend one of the most 15 ON SAT. 10/1. REWARD. CALL windows programs. $1400 OBO fabulous tailgaters ever ... so before 287-4546. THANK YOU. Laurie 291-4888 MORMONS coming in from out of Need BYU stud. ticket. Call Alison 1 BYU STUD. TICKET FOR SALE you head off to the game look for 
town -need BYU GA's fast... will x2494 CONTACT MICHAEL AT X2040 the PRIDE flag and come on over! 
***'* $50 REWARD ..... For Sale-2 Billy Joel tickets pay big bucks ... please call X1997 call the Q-line for info. 287-6665 For the RETURN of or information Oct. 19 in Chicago Alum selling 2 BYU GAs. Will fed For Sale-1 student ticket for last leading to the RETURN of two Call Meghan x3884 HELP! I need 2 GA's for BYU, my ex. 610-430-8613 3 home games, make me an offer ... Smile and be PROUDIII CO's: Pearl Jam "No F-in' parents are coming. call Katie 284-X4522 -Kerry Messiah" and Nirvana "All Tired of Waiting in long computer 5132. HELP! I need BYU student tlx! NEED ride to Syracuse, NY for fall Acoustically". Please call272-lines? Buy your own CALL FRANK at -3344 I need BYU tixl break!!! Steve Crowley 287-6380 4021. IBM 486 SX, 4 MB Ram, 400 MB Help! We need 2 BYU tickets­-Sandy x4638 
Hard drive, keyboard, mouse , and student or GAs and 2 NAVY GAs. Need 6 Navy Ga's KTII KTII KTII KT!I KTII KT!I $$$of programs-lotus, excel, ward­Please call Kathleen at4-3917. Bill271-9471 nEEd 2 BYU 2 AF 1 NAVY &3 Any KT!!
WANTED 

perfect, quattro pro, harvard graph­game Stu or GA Call Tom@-1410. Helloll Hello? Do I have the 
ics. Call X0640 $900 or best offer. Need 6 BYU GAs Really Need 2 BYU stud. Tix Observer? Hello ... Hello... Hello! Want two good tickets to see and 3 BYU Stud Tix Call x2010 Need 3 Stud Tix for BYU This is FC, do I have the Observer? James Taylor. Will trade tickets for Call Chad at X3368 call Bill at 272-2376 Hello ... Hello .. , .................... any remaining football games. FOR SALE: 2 BYU GA's. Call it any time, KT, you know the 273-1080 TICKETS I have 2 Navy GA. I'm NOT 273-g838. Need: GA's and Student Tix CODE!! 
SELLING, but WILL TRADE For Air Force. Will pay Big Bucks! ,. -_.., ' ,. Luv, Huss 
~ 

Help Wanted Individual I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. them for 2 BYU GA. NEED2 Call Liz 273·2179. Thanks! students/organizations to promote 272-6551 Call Pam at219-625-4144 $$BYU GA'S$$ -HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARISA!II Spring Break Trips. Earn high dollar CALL DAN NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR ... and many commissions and free trips. Must Need BYU student TIX (or GA's) Siblings driving 14 hrs would love to X1096 BYU GAME. more! 
be outgoing and creative. Call Will pay good money watch the game from inside the CALL JOE AT 4-2712 immediately 1-800-217-2021 Call Dennis at (914) 294-6546 StadiumII $$$$$NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR Established campus band with 
or 634-4012. PLEASE SELL ME YOUR BYU 'LIL BROS. $$$$$$$$ CALL DANA I NEED 3 BYU G.A.'S guaranteed gigs needs lead gui· Need a ride to U of Ml on 10/21. GA'S/STUD. TIXI Mindy @ 4570 ATX3829 MIKE 271-0979 tarist. Call Pick 277-2375 Will pay for gas! x2852 FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL -­
HOME GAMES. 272-7233. I NEED 2 BYU GA's FOR SALE: 3 BYU Stud. Tix I NEED A BYU STUDENT TICKET Hey Chuck Diesel and Doughnuts LOGAN CENTER clients going to Call Carolyn at271-9669 289-9420 PLEASE! KELLY X4028 whats going on girls??? the ND/BYU football game. They I NEED BYU GA'S -­
need your student tickets donated. CALL JEFF @ 277-8250 WANTED: 2 Air Force GA's 2 Stud.Tix needed for BYU NEED NAVY GA so FREAK I need a ride to NJ for break. Will To donate, tear out ticket, write 4-2628 Call 273-6033 FAIEND'II drive me back after help w/ ALL expenses. seat location on ticket, and drop at I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u break: Nate X3252 -Elaine x2328. CSC info desk by 3pm Friday. can help, call Ron at x1736 Need BYU GA's. Call Erin @4015 Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call ­Questions? Call Luke Williams Sue at 277-8995 Need 1 BYU stu. tick. Call Shannon NEED a ride to IOWA for break? at277-4103. Thanks!! I need one Air Force GA or student NEED NAVY GAs-CALL T J @ 291-6288. Call Molly x1363 
ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please 634-1290 I NEED 1 GA for NAVY. VERY -­
.......................................

NEEDED: Responsible care-giver call X3822. Thanks! IMPORTANT! Brian 273-8553 PHIL DONAHUE WILL PAY FOR 
in our home for infant and three HELPII I NEED 2 GA TICKETS -FOR SALE: 2 NAVY GA'S FILM DEVELOP. FOR PICTURES year old. quiet environment, conve­HELP! I need 4 Navy tickets-stud. FOR BYU AND NAVYII Call HELP$$$$! I need 2 GAs & 1 stud TAKEN WITH WICKED COOL nient location. Mondays, Tuesdays, and GA. Call Brian at x.2034. Monica at X4091. ticket for BYU -parents & sis **************** ******•*******•• ....... GIRLS AT STANFORD GAME 
Wednesdays, 2:00 to coming. For lots of $$$$$$, call NEED: 3 FSU TICKETS CALL 271-7780 
8:00 p.m. References required. Desparately need 4 BYU GA's $$$$$Help! I need Air Force GAs. 272-92031 PLEASE HELP ME-KELLEY Call 289-9975. Call Megan at 4072 Please call Gina at 277-0740.$$$$$ X3427111111 Sparky lives ... NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR ­*$*$*$*$*$'$'$'$'$*$'$'$'$'$'$' PARENTS HATE YOU? please sell me your BYU Ga'sl GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM GREG BRADY WANTS TO THE GIRL WITH CURLY FASCINATING CONVERSATION! SELL ME THEIR NAVY TIXII I need 2 or 3. call Erika x2775 HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON 1 NAVY GAlli CALL MARSHA HAIR WHO KEEPS FOLLOWING 
SERIOUS CASHII SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME. AT 271-7780 ME AROUND, Looking for a ride from NO to CALL JERRY AT 3024 Desperately need -call Mike at 4-1177 -I WOULD REALLY LIKE TO Milwaukee Thursday night October 1(or 2) BYU GAs. $Big Bucks$. -ERIC CLAPTON Ticketsll MEET YOU. NEXT TIME YOU 
27 Call Gene 287-9134 NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR INDY 10-23-94. (6) EXCELLENT SEE ME OUTSIDE OF O'SHAG, Please Call Pierre x1184 I NEED 8 TICKETS TO BYU GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM Floor Seats. Call Tim 291-4816 TRY SAYING HI. R.P. *$'$.$'$'$'$'$*$'$'$'$'$'$.$'$' STUDENT OR GA'S CALL We need 6 BYU and 2 Navy GA's HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON 
MEGHAN X4541 Call Jon or Brian X1620 SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME. ========================== Never try to teach a pig to sing I NEED 2 BYU GAs -call Mike at4-1177 ========================== ­CALL McKENNA 271-2956 Will trade two or more tickets for in need of 2 NAVY GA's. Please WANTED: One GAor ATTENTION: I really need a new WILL PAY WHAT IT TAKES any remaining NO football game call Melissa @ 4929. NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR Student Ticket roommate for next semester. Mine for two good james Taylor tickets. GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM for is driving me insane. If you're inter-
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -273-1080. Need GA's for BYUI Call Jeff at HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON NAVY ested, and can move to PE, call 
Earn up to $2,000+/month working x2174 SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME. Call Norm @ 634-1 023 Heather at 4321. Make sure you on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­I NEED NAVY GA'S -call Mike at 4-1177 ========================== ask for me, we don't want to offend panies. World travel (Hawaii, MARK X1640 I NEED 2 BYU GA's ========================== my roommate, even though she did 
Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Call Clare X2556 NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR dye my hair a hideous shade of red Seasonal and Full-Time employ­Need 3 BYU GA's & GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM ··················"'·······"'"'*"'*•*"'*• against my will. ment available. No experience nec­3NAVYGA's NEEDED: NAVY-2 G.A.'s HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON NEED 2 BYU ­
essary. For more information call1-call4-2010 1st game for 'rents. Coming from SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME. will buy or Ill I ! ! I I I !!Ill !I I ! I ! I ! I I IIIII 206-634-0468 ext. C55841 the moon, NO football is only rea­-call Mike at 4-1177 TAADE2 NAVY NOTICE: If you are a big brother SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE TIXS son for life. Will pay big $$. -Bryan or big sister to someone, call them TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK CALL-BRENDAN AT 277-6315 Can beat other bids.Call277-9742 ***HELP MEl I NEED SIX BYU x1190 up!! I It would be really nice to hear
.....................................

'951 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, STDT TIX FOR MY LONG-LOST from you. CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE. NEED 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY Need 2 BYU GAs BROTHERS! CALL BETH X4841 -I I I 1111 I !I ! I I I II I I I ! I I I ! I ! !! I BOOK EARLY AND SAVE$$$! $$$$$$-call Brian@ X1739 -Christi x4899 -**"'.."'***."'* •••• "'********"'* * ******"'••** 
ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL NOv FSU. Have 13 tickets 34-40 NEED AF GA'S OR STUD TIX Just kidding, Lynn. FREE! SUN SPLASH TOUAS1-Please, sell me one ticket to FSUI '*'2 BYU student TIX. Call with an yd line. Call407-365-0665 X3098 As if I could tolerate living with any­*****"'•••••••"' *"'••**•••••••*"'•••"'*••••
800-426-7710 Monica-X2995 offer 634/4575'" evenings. one else here! Aah-rahs can roll 
KICK OFF THE IRISH BASKETBALL
See Sports Extra tomorrow for 

SEASON THIS FRIDAY! 
Midnight Mania -11 pm -Joyce Center Main Arena
the ND/BYU football preview. 
call 631-6095 for info 

•NCAA • CO!.lfGf FOOTBAll 
NCAA to relax requirements 
No more guarantees for Illinois linebacker 
Associated Press telephone conference Monday. The senior earned Big Ten de­
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
fensive player of the week hon­This time, there won't be any ors after recording 14 tackles,public victory predictions from two sacks and an interceptionUniversity of Illinois football against the Buckeyes. This time players. 

he kept his forecasts to himself. 

Last week, senior linebacker 
Tepper was happy to hear 

Dana Howard, never shy with Howard hadn't made any new his opinions, caught the wrath predictions. But Tepper claims of coach Lou Tepper when he he still has something to worrypredicter;I an Illinois win at Ohio about -the Iowa running at­State. 
tack. The Hawkeyes average 197 yards on the ground.

Howard proved to be right, as 
"They really have a lot of 

Illinois defeated Ohio State 24­(backfield) depth," Tepper said. 
10. But there won't be similar "They run the ball very well." 
statements made about this 
Predicting the performance of Saturday's opponent, Iowa. 

the Iowa quarterback won't be The Hawkeyes are 2-4 and 0­easy. Starter Ryan Driscoll was 3 in the Big Ten. Illinois is 3-2 

injured against Indiana last 

and 1-1. 
Saturday and will be replaced"I don't know that anybody is by Mike Duprey. Duprey has 

guaranteeing anything other 
completed 2 of 6 passes for 57 than the fact that if the world yards.

doesn't end before Saturday we Tepper said it will be difficult are pretty much guaranteed to for the Illinois defense to pres­
play Iowa," Tepper said this sure Duprey. Iowa quarter­
week. 
backs have been sacked onlyHoward was again part of a 

once this season. 

By CRAIG HORST 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

The NCAA Council on Wednesday endorsed a pro­posal by the President's Commission to relax restric­tions on partial qualifiers -in­coming freshman who do not meet all of the academic re­quirements. 
The council, the main bureaucratic arm of the NCAA, gave its blessing to the proposal for allowing freshman who do not meet the minimum scores on standardized tests to still re­ceive scholarship aid and prac­tice with their teams. 
They would not, however, be able to play in games. 
The proposal will be voted on by Division I-A schools during the NCAA convention in January. 
Currently, partial qualifiers can be admitted to school, but must pay their own way and cannot practice or play their freshman year. 
The proposal is in response to the complaints of many coach­es, particularly members of the Black Coaches Association, that the standardized tests are skewed against minorities and unfairly penalize them. 
Coaches say the new proposal doesn't go far enough. The BCA, which has been particu­larly vocal on the issue, threat­ened to boycott basketball games last season. 
The proposal would define a partial qualifier as a freshman who didn't make a combined 700 on the SAT or a 17 on the ACT, but achieved a 2.5 grade­point in a core curriculum of 13 courses in high school. 
Currently, incoming athletes must meet both the standard­ized test score and the grade­point requirements. 
The council stopped short of making a decision on awarding a fourth year of eligibility to partial qualifiers. There is strong sentiment in some cor­ners of the athletic community to award a fourth year to par­tial qualifiers who make sub­stantial progress in school. 

"The council expressed an interest in an opportunity for a discussion and debate on all of the proposals, in particuiar the fourth year of competition for partial qualifiers who make academic progress," said Joseph Crowley, president of the council and president of the University of Nevada-Reno. 
"I think this is one of those is­sues that doesn't fit into a com­fortable niche in terms of the debate over academic stan­dards," Crowley said. 
The question has been voted upon during each of the past five NCAA conventions. Crowley said it was coming closer and closer to being approved. 
The council also reversed it­self and withdrew its support for a sliding scale in which a lower test score could be com­pensated for by a higher grade­point. A committee had rec­ommended that the request be denied, and Crowley said the 44-member Council went along via a voice vote. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
SHARING THE LIGHT OF FAITH 

On a quiet walk around the lake or maybe in your dorm late at night, have you ever shared your thoughts about God with a friend? Have you ever explained a personal belief or value ofyours to someone struggling with a decision? Have you ever read and discussed a Bible story with a young niece or nephew, or with brothers and sisters in your family? Have you ever become active in a cause because you felt so strongly about the moral and ethical principle involved? 
These, and so many other similar but unnamed experiences, all have something to do with SHARING THE LIGHT OF FAITH. The formal name for one who performs this ministry in our church is "Catechist." Father Berard Marthaler describes a catechist as one who: 
-Helps others grow in their personalfaith and spirituality. -Initiates others into the faith community, into its life, its worship, symbols and practices. -Passes on a world view, a set ofshared meanings and values that are Catholic and Christian. 
We have found the experience of being catechists both enriching and challenging and have chosen to make it a part ofour life style. Sylvia took that first long, quiet walk to the classroom down the alley behind the Jesuit Volunteer house to St. Leo's School in Tacoma, Wa. John's walk started one year later from a bus stop on the southwest side ofLos Angeles, through gang territory, to St. Agnes School. These walks would be repeated many more times and to many different class settings, with students ofall ages and from every economic and cultural background, but always with one obvious characteristic in common: "EXPECTATION!" There are 25 pairs ofeyes riveted on you, and only you; behind each is a unique story, but all are sending out a collective look that could strike fear into the heart of the most confident teacher, a look that says, "Okay, teach me something!" You say a silent prayer to yourself, "Lord, help me to say the right things." And so you begin. Twenty years and many first days later, we are still teaching in the field of Religious Education, and in many ways, still beginning. As we reflect upon our experience, these are some lessons we have learned well: 
-WHO YOU ARE IS AS IMPORTANT AS WHAT YOU TEACH. 
-THE LESSONS YOU TEACH WILL EFFECTAND CHANGE THE 
LIVES OF YOUR STUDENTS. 
-YOUR STUDENTS WILL NEVER FORGET YOU 
-YOU WILL LEARN AS MUCH FROM YOUR STUDENTS AS THEY 
WILL LEARN FROM YOU 
We share these thoughts with you, because there is a great need for volunteer catechists in parishes in the South Bend community. Here at Notre Dame there is a tremendous pool of talented and enthusiastic students who, by volunteering one or two hours per week, could make a real impact on the lives ofchildren in these Religious Education Programs. 
We are now prepared to work with student volunteers by providing the necessary training and support, in a minimal amount oftime, to help them be confident and effective in the catechetical ministry. We encourage you to give this invitation some thoughtful consideration. Be open to an adventure ofsharing your faith that will brin.g more rewards than you can imagine, an adventure that could become a lifetime way ofserving and growing in faith. 
Ifyou are interested in becoming a catechist or would like more information about this vital ministry ofservice to the Church, please call John or Sylvia Dillon at Campus Ministry, Badin Hall (631-5242). 
John and Sylvia Dillo 

TWENTY-NINTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
MISSION SUNDAY Collection to assist the ministry ofthe Priests and Brothers ofHoly Cross in Bangladesh, Uganda, and Kenya 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. Oct. 15  5:00p.m.  Rev. Andrew Leveille, C.S.C.  
Sun. Oct. 16  8:00a.m.  Rav. William Blum, C.S.C.  
10:00 a.m.  Rev. DanielJenky, C.S.C.  
ll:45 a.m.  Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C.  

(Rev. William Blum, CS. C, will be the homilist at all masses.) 
INGSFOR 
Isaiah 53:10-11 Hebrews 4: 14-16 Mark 10:35-45 


page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, October 13, 1994 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll •NHL 
Wildcats not taking Nebraska for granted 
By CRAIG HORST be like it is in Nebraska. I Associated Press think we are finally getting to that level." KANSAS CITY, Mo. On Saturday, Kansas State 
How confident is Kansas ( 4-0) will try to end several State of beating Nebraska in streaks against Nebraska (6­what could be the biggest vic­0). The Wildcats have lost 25 
tory in school history? games in a row to Nebraska 
Even coach Bill Snyder is dating to 1968, and have lost talking about his players not 15 straight at home, datingtaking the No. 2 Cornhuskers back to 1959. for granted. But they're coming close. 
"We have great respect for Last year, they trailed 31-28 Nebraska, but by the same to­in the' fourth quarter before ken, I think our players are Nebraska scored two late confident that they can play touchdowns to secure a 45-28 well in this game," Snyder victory.
said. This time, everything "As I told our players ... appears to be in Kansas things are maybe too good State's favor. right now. There are a lot of Nebraska coach Tom positive things going on and Osborne is desperate for 
a we are not in a position to quarterback. Tommie Frazier, take anybody for granted." once a leading contender for 
Such is the state of madness the Reisman Trophy favorite, around Manhattan, Kan., this 
is out for the season with a week as the No. 16 Wildcats blood clot. Backup Brook are just eight-point underdogs Berringer is recovering from a 
against the mighty collapsed lung and is ques­Cornhuskers, an annual na­
tionable. Next in line is Matt tional title contender. And to Turman, a sophomore walk­think, just a few years ago on, followed by Clester 
Kansas State was the doormat Johnson, a second-team wing­of Division I-A, while back who last played quarter­Nebraska and Oklahoma bat­back three years ago. 
tled for Big Eight titles and Meanwhile, Wildcats the national championship. quarterback Chad May has 
Now county authorities are been on target and passed for bracing for the game. Grocery 379 yards in a 21-13 victory stores in Manhattan were re­
over Kansas on Oct. 6. moving cases of a soft drink "I think our team is fine," 
called "Big Red," and the Osborne said. "Our players Kansas Highway Patrol have play hard. They will compete been involved in discussions no matter who plays quarter­
on security and traffic control. back." That's a far cry from not so Nebraska remains a formi­long ago when the parking lot dable foe with its usual best­at KSU Stadium was dominat­in-the-nation running game. ed by people wearing red -"The Nebraska rushing
people who loved their game takes it to another Huskers, but could not get level," Snyder said. ' tickets to sold-out home Snyder has broken other 
games in Lincoln. streaks before since his Most of them were out of 
arrival in Manhattan in time luck this time. Only 4,000 tick­for the 1990 season. During ets were allotted to Nebraska. his tenure, the Wildcats broke "I remember the first time I a 30-game winless streak, a was interviewed, someone 16-game losing streak, a 30­asked me what my goal was," game road losing streak, a 22­Wildcats co-captain Mike game road losing streak in the Ekeler said. "I said I just Big Eight and a 27-game
wanted football Saturdays to conference losing streak. 

NOW 
HIRING 
Food Servers & Bartender~ Must be 21 , Flexible Hours Apply Anytime 
272--3672 
Cleveland Rd. across from UP Mall 
,.,.As You Wish"
I rnports 

Sweaters, Clothing, Jewelry, 
Accessories, and Much More! Guatemala • Peru • Mexico • Nepal Thailand • India • Ecuador I ucred iblekP.ricep
uneWee uny.1 

LaFortune -Room 108 Oct. 10-15 (Sat.) 10:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
NHL season to be shortened 
By KEN RAPPOPORT tage of the absence of baseball. phoned Goodenow to tell him Associated Press The baseball strike wiped out the owners had turned down the World Series for the first the players. NEW YORK 
time since 1904. In Boston, Bruins generalThe NHL, for the moment, The work stoppage is the manager Harry Sinden took 
has stopped talking about ne­
longest in hockey history, sur­aim at Goodenow. gotiating contracts and started 
passing the 10-day strike in 
talking about cutting schedules. April1992. "He knows the (owners' eco­"I never thought it would get nomic) problem and knows it's With the lockout having gone to this," said Adam Graves, real," Sinden said. " ... It's a 
12 days and no prospect for the 
player representative of the tragedy if he knows our prob­season starting this weekend, 
New York Rangers. ''I'm not lem, understands it and won't the league faces the immediate 
especially proud or ecstatic try to work with us to solve it." 
obstacle of how to redesign the 
with what hockey is going Bettman steadfastly has re­schedule. through right now." fused to use the term "lockout" 
NHL spokesman Arthur 
in shutting down the NHL sea­

Pincus said Wednesday the 
Graves spoke by telephone son. Sinden says the league'sleague will have an announce­from a California hospital, vocabulary will have to change 
ment "later in the week" re­
where he is recuperating from come the weekend. garding possible schedule revi­back surgery. "Until Saturday night it's a sion. 
The NHL Players Association postponement of the season," said Bettman and union head he said. "If Saturday nightAt this stage, it's all but in­Bob Goodenow have agreed to (there's no resolution), I don't 
evitable games will be lost. 
keep the lines of communica­see any other word for it than a After rejecting the players' tion open. lockout." 
plan Tuesday, owners offered "Where they lead, I can't say Meanwhile, many Swedish no counter-proposal. Players at this point," union spokesman NHL players have inquiredhave been out of training camp 
Steve MacAllister said. about playing in the Swedish 
since the end of September, 
The last time they talked was Elite League. However, the NHL when NHL commissioner Gary 
Tuesday, when Bettman has warned them not do so. Bettman postponed the original Oct. 1 start of the season for two weeks in hopes of working • out a new collective bargaining agreement. 
Bettman had said the league would have to start its season no later than Saturday to en-• 
sure an entire 84-game sched-• ========= ==:=;;;;iiiir== 
ule. But that went by the ·boards Tuesday when owners rejected the players' proposal. 1803 South Bend Ave. 
The lockout already has post-• Campus Shoppes Plaza poned 65 games and ruined • 277-2974 hockey's chance to take ad van-~·:Li~~~lUtWv:;l!lijidiivUJitiiithiiailnjiyjo~~i_!=i:~iioi!~ei!rii.•N.ewiiicuiislltoilmlle~~~•~?a"~l~.l:!·---~I:;Wi!.l:!l~ 
HAVE YOU EVER CONSIDERED THE DIFFERENCE IT WOULD MAKE TO JOIN A FIRM WITH A GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE? 

Merrill Lynch 
cordially invites you to attend an Infonnation Session regarding career opportunities in 
Investment Banking Debt & Equity Markets 
October 13, 1994 at 6:30p.m. Hesburgh Peace Center-The Greenfields Room Reception to follow Casual Attire 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 
The difference is Merrill Lynch. 
~Merrill Lynch 
©1994 Merrill Lynch & Co. A tradition of trust. 
• GOLF • Cm.J.EGE foora.&u 
9-year-old shoots 94 in Auburn secondary is offensive 
high school tournament 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 

an interception return against Kentucky, it's more than just being in the right place at the right time. 
"A lot of it has to do with atti­tude and effort and film study and coaching," he said. "When we have a chance to make something happen, we want to make it happen." 
That kind of attitude is in­stilled in the defensive backs by their position coach, Jack Hines. 
"He tells us, 'Don't just play defensively, read the offense. You may be out of position, but if you know what they're going to do, go for it,"' Shelling re­counted. "We're not just robots out there; where if the offense does this, we do that. We go make plays."' 
Florida can attest to that. A 
year ago, the Gators were on 
the verge of routing Auburn, 
the preseason. "They're just not as good as they think they are. I wish they wouldn't talk so much." 
Bowden, whose team is 6-0 this season, says now he was just playing mind games with his talented secondary. 
"They're not just non -athletes who overachieved to get where they are, who knew if they didn't practice hard they wouldn't play good. They've been great athletes all their lives," the coach said. 
"They're the kind of guys who need a challenge. I believe in them, but I also felt like I needed to push them." 
Bowden had other concerns, 
too. Jackson, the team's best 
coverage cornerback, flunked 
out of school and was replaced 
by Dell McGee. Strong safety 
Otis Mounds, who sustained a 

Associated Press 
ELIZABETHTOWN, Ky. 
She was years younger than her competitors, yet 9-year-old Whitney Wade was able to fin­ish in the middle of the pack in the Kentucky girls' state golf tournament Wednesday. 
Wade, a fourth-grader at Happy Valley Elementary School in Glasgow, shot a 94 on the par-72 Elizabethtown Country Club course on Wednesday to finish the two­day tourney at 192. She tied for 62nd in a field of 133. 
"She handles herself very maturely on the golf course," said tournament manager Lou Brown of the Kentucky High School Athletic Association. 
Sharon Park, a senior at 
Lexington Henry Clay, shot a 73 Wednesday for a 152 to win the tournament by two strokes. Park was the runnerup last year and fifth in 1992. 
Ashley Smith of Bowling Green Greenwood was 4-over on the last four holes to finish with a 76 for a 154. 
Somerset won the team com­petition with a score of 698. Wade's team, Glasgow High School, finished fifth out of 18 teams at 715. Louisville Sacred Heart was second at 706, fol­lowed by Franklin County at 709 and Daviess County at 710. 
Wade may be the youngest athlete to compete in a Kentucky state high school championship. The KHSAA was unable to find any record of another 9-year-old competing in a state tournament in Kentucky. 

AUBURN, Ala. 
They're a swaggering bunch, not surprising when you con­sider they've scored nine touch­downs over the past two years without ever being the intended receiver. 
This week, though, Auburn's defensive backs will find out if their confidence is justified: It's time for the No. 6 Tigers to face the "Fun-n-Gun" offense of No. 1 Florida. 
"It's the best against the best," free safety Brian Robinson said of Saturday's game at Florida Field. 
"I hope they don't run at all," strong safety Ken Alvis chimed in. "I want them to throw on every down, put the pressure on us." 
While probably not the best,  gomg up 10-0 in the fi.cst quar­ severe knee mJury near the end  
@).I!)  Auburn's secondary surely has  ter and threatening to make it  of last season, lost his job to  
~ ~  Now it's Ot-11"" tt-11""1'\ to  I~ ~  been the most opportunistic, returning eight interceptions for touchdowns and scoring another TD on a fumble recov­ 17-0 before Calvin Jackson stepped in front of a Danny Wuerffel pass and went 96 yards for a Tiger touchdown.  Alvis. Smith, who was the team's top defensive back be­fore an injury kept him out all of 1993, seemed to have lost a  
~  make }!OV\ feel so  ~  ery during the Tigers' 17-game winning streak.  The defensive backs weren't  step and was relegated to a backup role.  
~  special.  ~  The secondary's signature game was a month ago against  through. In the fourth quarter, Shelling picked off Wuerffel  Through all the changes, though, the secondary keeps  
LSU, when the DBs had all four  again and returned it 65 yards  coming up with big plays. Now,  
~  ~  Auburn  touchdowns.  to  set  up  another  Auburn  they're getting ready to face an  
~  t-lappy Birthday  ~  Cornerback Chris Shelling re­covered a fumble for one score  touchdown. The Tigers upset Florida 38-35.  offense that knows a little something about big plays.  
and, after the Tigers fell behind  In all, the secondary scored  Florida {5-0) is averaging  
~ ~  Mcn•isa!  ~ ~  by 14 early in the fourth quar­ter, Alvis, Robinson and Fred Smith all returned interceptions  four touchdowns during an im­probable 11-0 season ­which had coach Terry Bowden wor­ nearly 51 points and 307 yards passing per game. The Gators have scored 70 points twice  
....  ~  for TDs in a 30-26 victory. For Alvis, who also scored on  ried heading into this year. "They're good," he said in  and no fewer than 31 points in any of their victories. 

[!].[!) 
Give Us Your Navy Tickets! Why? We'II tell you. • • 
Big Brothers and Big Sisters of ND/SMC is collecting as many student Navy football tickets as Possible to allow unmatched South Bend children to attend the game. So if You think You won~t make it back for the game~ or if You~re thinking of those kids who have never seen a game~ Please donate Your tickets! All YOU need to do is go to the CSC [Center for Social ConcernsJ between October 13 and October 19 and riP out Your Navy ticket stub & write your name and seat number on the backside. rwe~ve already cleared it through the Athletic OfficeJ AnY questions~ call Karen x1262. 
Please donate your tickets, kids will really appreciate it! 
~ _ 

........ -............... .... ..--.. -·~ ·~ ...... .......... •;--....... -:.-... -­
. . ---. --­
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, October 13, 1994 
must run good routes because "She has been great for us so Lewis vs. Knott been even worse," said Koski. 
they (PE) are real tough on de­far this year," Guerin said. "But we have been working on
Previews 
fense." 
The team's potent offensive combination of quarterback McNeill, wideout Erin Ippolito, and tailback Tricia Shafnitz has been instrumental in the Slammers' 3-0 start. On the defensive side of the ball, McNeill expects lineman Maria Freiburger and linebackers Ann Ullie and Beth Kueter to come up big tonight as they have all season. 
Team co-captain and starting defensive back Sam Spencer suffered a broken thumb last week and is not expected to play against PE. However, McNeill expects the team will be able to overcome the loss of their defensive leader. 
Farley vs. Off Campus 
The Off Campus team has been the Dr. Jeckyl and Mr. Hyde of women's Interhall foot­ball so far this season. It seemed the team could do no wrong in strong wins over PE and Lewis. However, Off Campus had more than their share of problems in a 19-6 loss to Sigfried last week. 
The offense has been domi­nating in its two wins so far this season. Meghan Allen, Shirley Nagy, and Sara Donnelly form possibly the strongest three­some in the league. Team cap­tain Kelly Guerin credits Allen, the team's star tailback, in helping the team move into sole possession of third place in the Blue Division. 


continued from page 20 
proved to be PE's biggest weapon, by successfully guiding their offense down the field and keeping the Angel offense on the sideline in the process. In addition, tailback Charo Gonzalez tore through the Knott defense to score on touchdown runs of 40 and 26 yards. 
"She (Gonzalez) has been consistent the whole season," said O'Kain referring to the team's top offensive threat. "She has a great amount of strength and speed that make her tough to bring down." 
After struggling offensively early in the season, the unit made great strides in the past two games. However, O'Kain feels the defense will determine how PE fares against Knott. 
"The defense has been the key to our success so far this year," she said. "If we can keep up the intensity, we should do just fine this Thursday." 
Siegfried moved up to No. 5 in the Power Poll following im­pressive victories over Knott and Off Campus. However, team captain Marcie McNeill feels the team must take their play to the next level to have any chance of knocking ofT un­defeated PE. 
"We definitely must execute better and improve our timing," said McNeill. "Our receivers 
'it MAGNIFICENT FILU! ]CLIETT£ 8/.VOCHE IS BRILLW'T! Kr:)'sztof Kiesloll'ski remains amm1g t!Je /){lllll(ul ofcontemporarJ' masters'" 
-/.Hut·f..t·llr. \f\1 JIJRA./H/1) \Ill\ 
"****/
jl'LIEITE B!MJCHE 
IS AJL4RI'EL! Blue· makes !be sbort list of t!Je year's Ji11est films'" 
-&IJ\Irfll~>.<.i<t\1\(,f{J\/Ilfll 1/U\ 
'MYSTERIOUS...SEXY! 
Krz)'sztof Kieslml'ski's lmrk radiates illle11Sil)'1" -~lltllf,lll"lillli' Tllf \fU )fJNJ..Ui 
f!' BE;~••t;LM ")
BEST ACTRESS-JULIETTE BINOCHE 
( !:~)'" .f_I_NEKATI?G~f"l:tY 
VENICE FILM FESTIVAL 1991 
JULIETTE BINOCHE 
BlUI
l fll~ IY 
KRZYSZTOF KIESLOWSKI 
UH~o lftlU.liii;I<ISIIUUYIDIIh IDDHIOIIAIIIH~~~
"''A"{t:
'II c:: 
lffiAit-l!OISIOVI~IIIIUIIWflilll 
CINEMA AT Friday & Saturday 

"Her speed and overall quick­ness have been key to our suc­cess this season." 
The defensive unit will have to overcome a tough obstacle this evening. Michelle Drury will be unavailable for the match-up with Farley due to a separated shoulder. However, Guerin feels the team will adjust well to playing without one of their catalysts on the defensive side of the ball. 
She said, "It'll be tough, but all we have to do is pull togeth­er as a team. The defensive line has been doing awesome. I know they will keep it up, and hopefully everyone else will take up the slack in our last few games." 
There is no denying that it has been a frustrating year for Farley. Tough losses to division rivals PE, Siegfried, and PW have dropped the team down to No. 11 in the Power Poll. 
However, despite the losing record and having a share of last place in the Blue Division, team captain Julie Ehrman be­lieves the season is far from a failure. 
The squad has shown flashes of brilliance in their first four games of the season. However, the trouble for the Farley coaching staff has been getting both the offensive and defensive unit to perform well in the same game. 
With just two games remain­ing, it's now or never for the Farley Interhall football team. 
Saying that it has been a dis­appointing season for the Knott football team would be an understatement. After four games, the squad is winless, and one would think optimism would be a rare commodity on the Angel sideline. Think again. 
Team captain Kelly Koski said, "It has been tough so far this year, but we will bounce back. If we can maintain our confidence, there is no doubt that we will be competitive." 
Similar to last season when Knott endured the entire sea­son without scoring a touch­down, the Angels have strug­gled putting points on the scoreboard. 
The biggest problem for Knott's anemic offense has been the offensive line. Quarterback Kristen Langan has had little time to throw the football, and star wideout Melissa Sheldon has been almost nonexistent in the pass­ing game. 
"The blocking has been terri­ble, and the pass protection has it hard in practice, so I'm sure we'll improve on that this week against Lewis." 
Whereas Knott has struggled through their first four games, Lewis has enjoyed a fair amount of success so far this year. Although their 2-2 record and No. 9 ranking in the Power Poll may not indicate it, the Chickens have made great strides this season on both sides of the football. 
"The offense has been solid so far through our first four games," said team captain Tracy Cote. Although the defense struggled some in the early part of the season, they have picked things up in the past two games. Cote credits defensive leader and standout defensive back Debbie Droll with the steady improvement. 
Lewis' playoff hopes rest on the outcomes of both tonight's game with Knott and the sea­son finale next week against PE. Chicken fans will find out just how far their team has come in the final tests of the season. 

~~asyli,~tG& 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 
(219)277-1291 

Howto interview withthe Fa e500 withouteven 

OK, graduate-to-be. You can get up early or you can get Career/NET' It's simple: You give us your resume in a personal profile on the disk we 
provide. And we guarantee to deliver it to 10,000 employers (including the Fortune 500) in exactly the form they're looking for. Your Career/NET enrollment kit-a preprogrammed disk and a booklet of step-by-step instructions-is $99.95~ To be in the next nationwide distribution to employers, order today Calll-800-682-8539. 

•Plus $4.95 for shipping and handling. 
THE SNITE 
7:30 and 9:45 pm 

• COLLEGE FOOTBAll 
Linebacker U. is now Wideout U. Missouri to rip out 
By MICHAEL A. GIARRUSSO 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Bobby Engram and Freddie Scott are turning Linebacker U. into Wideout U. 
They're both among the top 10 receivers in yardage per game, and they have helped No. 3 Penn State -traditionally known for its defense and run­ning game -lead the nation in scoring offense and total offense. They're the favorite targets of Kerry Collins, the nation's top-rated passer. 
The duo will get their first true test Saturday when Penn State (5-0, 2-0 Big Ten) travels to No.5 Michigan (4-1, 2-0.) 
Engram, a junior from Camden, S.C., was the receiver Penn State opponents worried about. After catching 48 passes -13 for touchdowns -last season, he was a first-team Big Ten player. 
Teams stopped focusing their defense on Engram when Scott started burning them. 
"I knew th1,1t people were go­ing to do things to try to take me out of the ballgame," Engram said. "Freddie has helped me a lot. He's freed me up and made the big plays when he had to." 
Scott, a sophomore from Southfield, Mich., is the son of Fred Scott, a former NFL re­ceiver with the Colts and Lions. 
"I think there's a tendency to overlook Freddie because of Bobby," coach Joe Paterno said. "People are scared to death of Bobby and they give Freddie a little more room." 
Engram has 22 catches for 514 yards and three touch­downs, while Scott has 21 catches for 499 yards and six touchdowns. 
Both players aren't near the top in receptions, but Engram is second in yardage per game and Scott is sixth. That's be­cause nearly every catch they make is a big play. They both average just over 23 yards per catch. 

"I attribute that all to our running game," Engram said. "Nobody wants to get the ball pounded at them all game. I think they have no choice but to put eight men around the line. That puts us in one-on-one, and that's what you want as a receiver." 
Against Rutgers, Collins called for a long pass when the defense stacked the line. He looked to Scott on his right, and then threw a 40-yard pass to Engram on his left, who made the diving catch despite being interfered with. In a similar sit­uation later, Collins lobbed the ball to Scott, who outraced two defenders for an 82-yard touch­down. 
"They've left Bobby and Freddie one-on-one a lot, and I don't think there are too many corners in the country that can cover those guys one-on-one," Collins said. 
Receivers coach Kenny Jackson, a former Penn State All-American who played for the Eagles and Oilers, joined the Penn State staff last season. 
Engram gives Jackson much of 
"I know not many tears will
the credit for the receivers' suc­
be shed," Castiglione said. 
cess. 

This is the substance Kansas
"Once you've been there, you 
State athletic director Steve
know what to expect from your 
Miller once credited for "17
players," Engram said. "He 
unassisted tackles" and that
knows how to push the right 
almost every visiting coach ­
buttons to get us motivated. 
win or lose -directs a parting
That's one of the main reasons 
shot at. After the infamous
we're throwing the ball so 
fifth-down game in 1990,
well." 

McCartney deflected criticism
Collins said Scott and Engram 
of his decision to accept the 
are equal in a lot of ways. 

Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room -~Fortune Student Center-631-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00pm Sat.urday, 8:00am -9:00 pm Sunday,JO:OO am-3:00pm 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 

Saint Mary's College Varsity Basketball Tryouts 


Saturday, October 15 at 9:00 a.m. & Sunday, October 16 at 4:30p.m. Angela Athletic Facility 
Interested students are encouraged to tryout. 
Why not choose a 
first class haircut? 
Bringing out your 
best features is a 
talent. We create 
haircuts and styles 
that are expressly 
unique ... always 
exceptional and 
totally your own. 
Men's cut & Style 
$1ZXJ 
with Student ID

272-0312 reg. $1soo 
Ironwood & Ate. 23 -minutes from campus 
"Field of Screams" 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, Mo. 
It's been described as treach­erous, banana-peel slick, ab­surd and worse. It's been offi­cially denounced by the Big Eight Conference. 
Its most famous critic, Colorado coach Bill McCartney, once said he'd just as soon "play in a parking lot than on that thing." 
But critics won't have Missouri's dreaded Omniturf football field to kick around much longer. After 10 years of unintentional comedy, the school is ripping out the stuff and going back to grass. 
The last game, and last chance to see players slip-slid­ing their way down the field in brilliant sunlight, is Nov. 19 against Kansas. Sometime the following week, athletic direc­tor Joe Castiglione will hold a farewell party. 
Or, more accurately, it'll be good riddance. 
tainted victory by revealing he'd counted 92 slips on a dry 
day.  
His comments  were a lot  
more  muted  after  last  
Saturday's 38-23 victory.  

''I'll be glad to come back on grass," McCartney said. "It seemed like both teams slipped a few times, but it wasn't bad at all." 
But Colorado couldn't leave without some sort of shot. If it wasn't as slippery as expected, running back Rashaan Salaam said it was a lot harder than the norm. 
"That turf, it's (like) getting hit twice," Salaam said after rushing for 166 yards. "You get hit and then you fall on that turf." 
Even the home team has of­ten complained. On the day he was hired last December, new coach Larry Smith didn't waste any time making a plea to "dig that baby up." 
"I know the players hate it," Smith said then. "I walked on it, I didn't like it very much." 
Pretty much everybody has been in agreement about that since it was installed in 1985. 
Missouri became the last school in the Big Eight to go to artificial turf, and it seemed a practical move at the time. After the school enclosed the south end zone, a fungus was killing the grass. 
Then came Omniturf, which killed scoring drives and, some say, caused injuries. Tulsa coach Dave Rader blamed it for a season-ending knee injury suffered by quarterback Troy DeGar in this year's opener. 
"The Omniturf should not be allowed in the game of foot­ball," Rader said. 
The Big Eight even de­nounced it in 1992, saying the field was in such condition as to damage the "integrity of the game." 
Soon, it'll be down to two ma­jor college football programs. West Virginia, which played at Missouri on Oct. 1, has it, and that might explain the less­than-scathing comments from West Virginia coach Don Nehlen after the Mountaineers' 34-10 victory. 
"Yours is a little slippier, but not much," Nehlen said. "We slip and fall, too. But we don't have the luxury of going to grass like you do." 

Interested in Environmental Issues? 
Come join the new Terra Club Meeting Oct. 13, 5:00p.m. in Cushing Auditorium Come elect officers and discuss future plans: *fundraising, work co ..ops, field trips, community service* 
All are welcome! 
• 

page 18 
IH 
continued from page 20 
stalled when a questionable il­legal block call brought back a big run for B.P. that would've set up a possible score. The margin at half was still six. 
The head coach of the Biltz decided to do some reading for his halftime pep talk. He read a line from Wednesday's Observer that quoted the Phoxes' Trish Sorenson saying, "We're going to win." 
"They don't even think you have a chance," exclaimed the Blitz's head coach. "Go out there and prove them wrong!" 
The gong went off for the B.P. offense in the second half. They took the opening posses­sion 45 yards for the score. The key plays were a perfectly executed play action pass and reverse. The successful con­version made the score 7-6 Biltz. 
Pangborn showed that they aren't ranked second for noth­ing as they responded immedi­ately. Trish Sorenson backed up her prediction by scoring on a swing pass from twenty yards away. She also scored on a fake reverse for the two-point conversion. The Phoxes took a 14-7 advantage. 
Any chance the Blitz had to pull off a comeback was nulli­fied when another questionable illegal block call brought back a terrific kickoff return, forcing 
B.P. to start at their own 8 yard line. The Phoxes held, leaving the fmal score 14-7 Pangborn. 
"Our defensive consistency was the key to victory," said the head coach of the Phoxes Jim Delany. 
Badin 12, Walsh 0 
Oh how the mighty have fall­en. The Wild Women of Walsh came into Wednesday's game with Badin ranked #1. And for most of their first possession it was easy to see why. The ran the ball down the throat of the Attitudes 60 yards to the Badin one yard line where it was fourth and goal. 
Badin caught a break as a false start made it fourth and goal from the six. That set the stage for heroics by Fran Malony who stopped Walsh at the three. 
Mter that play the Attitudes took control of the game and 
II SHECKY" I.S 21? 

---------~-------­
The Observer • SPORTS 
never looked back. Deep in their own territory, Badin looked to split-end Jill Satanek who responded with a 33 yard run and catch. She capped the drive with an amazing 11 yard touchdown grab in the back of the end zone. Satanek is quick­ly becoming the Derek Mayes of Women's interhall, catching anything in her area code. 
Walsh continued to try to run the football. In fact, 20 out of their first 21 plays were kept on the ground. Each time the Badin defense was ready, stop­ping the Wild Women on anoth­er forth down. 
Late in the game, down by six, Walsh had to look to the air. The Attitudes were ready as great coverage produced several incompletions, and fi­nally the clinching score as Shelly Dillenburger returned an interception 41 yards for a touchdown. 
"The key to the game was the goal line stand," said Badin head coach Tom McDonald. 
------._.,...---~--~-:-:---------. 
Thursday, October 13, 1994 

• NFL 
Patriots sued over music style discrimination 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 

A former cheerleading chore­ographer for the New England Patriots is suing the team, claiming she was fired for protesting the club's preference for racy uniforms and music aimed at white fans. 
Lisa Coles of Los Angeles was dismissed in July. She had been choreographer for the Patriettes for three years when Bob Kraft bought the team last January. 
Under Kraft, managers sug­gested Coles design more "risque" two-piece outfits, like those worn by the Dallas Cowgirls, her lawyer Frederick Golder said. 
The new management also 
told Coles to choreograph rou­tines to "rock 'n' roll music in­stead of rap and hip-hop" to appeal more to white fans, Golder said. 
When Coles complained that the suggestions were racist and sexist, the team fired her in retaliation, Golder said. 
Golder said the team told Coles they wanted to hire a choreographer who lived closer to Foxboro. Coles had been commuting from Los Angeles. 
Patriots spokesman Don Lowrey did not return phone messages left at his home and his office. 
Coles, who has filed a discrimination suit, is also suing the team for breach of contract. 
FOB.RIGN (J!R PARTS Is now under new management and we are bettftr tfwJ ewr/ Take a look at all we've cot to offer: 
[I('Carry Full Une of Beck/Amley Worldparts 
[I('Have Hard-to-find 'N.O.S.' Parts 



RIIIIGGGHHHT! 
OOTCHAI THE PREZ. 
[I('Meet Specific Needs of Car Enthu~asts I(Supp~ Over Night Service on Non-stocked Parts

cJ11...THE CusHWA CENTER lJF 
presents 

THE HIBERNIAN LECTURE MYTH AND REVISIONISM IN IRISH HISTORY 
Emmet Larkin The University of Chicago 
Friday, October 14, 1994 4:15PM Hesburgh Library Lounge 

7:30 FRIDAY! 
I

suBwAY PARTY sUa 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 

~ 
1Oth-ranked 
SMU 

Mens Soccer
At SUBWAY, we feel we can ~e apart of ~our Satur~a~ 
Alumni Field -behind the JACC
SUBWAY's six-foot combo special is just $37.95. 
ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 



~-~ . -~ ----·~----------­
Thursday, October 13, 1994 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
WELL jAc.GVE'>, ~ouR CIECX. VP Sl-lovJS ~ov To 1k , IN PEO.Rft.C.r f-\EI\L TH, ~ou CouLDrq 13~ (N 13£-n£.1?. SHAPE. OF (ou~s£ ~ou [.,JILL.-' 
l:>•E.. \omop,Rotil 
WHEN AN 0'1-­II..T HIT5 
~otJ " 
~~ 
CALVIN AND HOBBES lm£.5 , \)() 'iOIJ ~~~';:.. OJR. 
I 1\-111-l\.:. ()JR. 
KTIO~S SIIOW

t-\0\U..U'N IS DEHNE.D 8'{ 
'fl~P..T'S 11-l 0JR IN OJR ~E/1.\tts? ~...----~1 "~R\S. 
OUR ,&,C'nct{S, OR ~ W\\~TS 
DILBERT 
DOGBERT THE FUTURIST 
[VENTUALLY THE TWO 
GROUPS WILL TAKE 
DIFFER-ENT EVOLUTIONARY 
POLICY /'\AKERS. 
PATHS 

~r-------------------~ 
~----------------~~ 


The Observer • TODAY page 19 DAVE KELLETT 
SSIOI'I. 
BILL WATTERSON 
I RESENT 
lHAT! 


Despite his repeated efforts to explain things to her, Satan could never dissuade his mother from offering cookies and milk to the accursed. 
-
SCOTT ADAMS 
THEN, AS NOW, THE "HAVE NOTS'' WILL BE THE 

OOG /'\AKE 
f'I\ISSION 

STATEMENT. 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Bombay V.I.P. 
6 Hacienda part 1CJ1VIoney grp. 13 With 16-Across, 
financially O.K. 14 By its very 
nature 16 See 13-Across 11 Lab containers 18 Hemmed 20 James Murray 
work: Abbr. 21 Air hero 24Pro-­25 Kind of violet 29 Hawaiian 
verandas 31 Cousin of a mile. 32 Inseparable 
33Lake­(Mississippi's source) 
34 German "I" 35 Musical ending 36 Composer with 
a clavier 37 Mississippi 
waterway 39 Gland finale? 40Der­
(Adenauer) 41 Coli. srs. exam 42 Sophisticated 44 Scare word 45 Jungle 
squeezers 46 California team 47 Approve 49The nth 
degree? 50 Festival time 51 Postal abbr. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

52 Soviet workers' cooperative 54 Robin's transport 
sa See 63-Across 
62 Cost containment measure 63 With 58-Across, blockaded 64 Firecracker's path 65 Fun-house cries 66 Pretender 
DOWN 
1 Green 2"The-Daba 
Honeymoon" 3 Write a bit 4 Former ova 5 Abelard, e.g. 6 Rushed 
7 Salaam's beast 
8 See 9-Down 
9 With 8-Down, 
a reply's start 26 Radiator fluid 
10 Banned chemical 
27 Faster than compound 
adagio 28 Least remote 
11 Had a little lamb 30 Late apartheid 
12 Lettuce variety opponent14 Agenda listing 31 Appraises, with 15 German import "up"19 See 45-Down 
35 Sierra Maestra 21 Legendary 
countryArabian hero 
38 Flaherty's "Man 22 Make a list of-" 23 Doer 43 Takes the 25 With a bow, elevator, musically perhaps 


45 With 19-Down, 53 Prefix with type predeparture 54 Merit badge words grp. 
48Author 55 Swiss river Bombeck 56 Hosp. attention 
49 Make ready, 57 Word of disgust informally 59 Both Begleys 52 "Poor pitiful &o"Huh!" me!" 61 Sin 


Use Observer 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
classifieds 

Hey You DINGLEBERRIES!!! 
....

:• HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO DO... : • • • Acoustic Cafe "Waiting for Godot" : •
:"Silence of the Lambs" 
: -Thursday Night -Thursday Night -Thursday thru Sunday : :-Montgomery Theater 
-The Huddle 9-12p.m. ~':ashington Hall ff~~~
•
: -8:00/10:30p.m. -$1 8.00p.m. _ Ji~V. 
e lrniDitNT UNION aQAJlD e 
-----------------------------~--------------------~ 
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, October 13, 1994 
• WOMEN'S INTERHAU. 

Ducks stampede past Cavilers, 19-6 All-star game 
By CHUCK CAMOSY interference penalty, which Sports Writer would give Howard a sure two point lead with the safety. Or 
The brisk fall weather 
he could take the interference 
Wednesday night wasn't 
call, setting up a final play of 
enough to cool down the fired­
the half from the Cavs' ten yard up squads of Howard and 
line. He chose the latter. 
Cavanaugh. Both were seeking 
"Two points wouldn't be to be rid of the goose egg that enough," said Flannigan. "We occupied each of their win 
had confidence that Sarah columns. And the play re­could get us the score." fleeted that. 
As it turns out, that confi­The Cavilers came out trying 
dence was well founded. to put Howard on the defensive. Running back Sarah Norton An array of trick plays includ­
took a pitch 10 yards for the ing a hook and lateral, reverse, 
touchdown. ThP extra-pointand half-back option pass were conversion made it 13-6 seen in their very first drive. 
Howard. 
However, the Howard defense 
The Ducks had all the mo­was equal to the task, stopping 
mentum going into the second the Cavs on fourth down. 
half. Three times they stuffed The two teams traded scores, 
the Cavilers on fourth down 
Howard's coming on a big 4th 
attempts. The last nail in the and goal pass to the end zone. 
coffin came on a 10 play, 45 Cavanaugh responded with and 
yard touchdown drive, capped8 play, 41 yard touchdown by Norton's 10 yard run. That drive. The score coming on a 
made the score 19-6 Ducks. 
center sneak which tied the 
"Were are really proud of our 
game at six. 
girls," praised Flannigan. "It's The turning point of the game 
great to get that first win." occurred when the Ducks were driving for a go ahead score with time running out in the 
Pangborn 14, B.P. 7 
first half of play. A pass thrown by Howard appeared 
The confidence of the #2 
to have been intercepted in the 
Pangborn was evident in the 
end zone by the Cavs. 
second game Wednesday
However, the interceptor was 
evening. Having made B.P. go
called for pass interference. 
three and out in the opening
Also, after trying to return the 
possession, the Phoxes 
pickoff, she was caught in the 
marched 57 yards in 7 plays to 
end zone for a safety. An inter­
take a 6-0 lead. The Blitz tried 
esting decision came up for the 
to answer, but their drive 
coach of the Ducks, Ryan Flannigan. He could refuse the 
see IH I page 18 

No.1 ranking up for grabs 
By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 
As of now. there is no clear cut front runner to win the Blue Division in women's Interhall football. However, one is sure to emerge tonight as the league's top two teams, Siegfried and Pasqerella East, square off in a battle for the coveted top spot. 
"They (Sigfried) are definitely the best team we have faced all season," said PE team captain Sue O'Kain. "This will be a big test. How well we do against them will determine how we do in the playoffs." 
PE is coming off their best game of the season, a dominat­ing 12-0 victory over Knott. 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Quarterback Kristen Doty 
Sara Donnelly and the Off Campus team will try to regain the offensive dominance when they face Farley. see PREVIEWS I page 16 


planned 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
After the championship games on November 20th in the stadium draw to a close, interhall will hold its own little prJ-bowl. 
It may not be in Honolulu, but yesterday RecSports an­nounced that the men plan to hold an interhall all-star game to officially end the season. As of now, plans for a women's all-star game are still in the works. 
According to Carroll coach Marty Ogren, the game will be played on Tuesday, November 22nd at a yet to be determined location. Right now, Loftus looks to be the site depending on the weather conditions around that time. 
Ogren said that a lot of the credit goes to director of RecSports, Tom Kelley, and as­sistant director, Rich O'Leary, for making the event possible. 
"Once I gave them the idea, they went out of their way to get the preparations started," added Ogren. 
The game will pit the men's gold and blue divisions against each other, making for some interesting short-term friend­ships on north and south quads. There will be a cap­tain's meeting this Sunday at 5 
p.m. in Montgomery Theater. 
"I think this is really going to be a fun and classy event," added Ogren. 

• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
Loss streak continues 
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
It's beginning to look a lot like a McDonalds commercial. Win or lose the Saint Mary's soccer team plays their hard­est in the game and after­wards, loads up the bus to McDonalds... or Pizza Hut? 
"The most interesting part of the game was the argt~ment on the bus over McDonalds or Pizza Hut," said Shari Matelski. "We wanted McDonalds and once again we lost and got Pizza Hut." 
The Belles not only lost on the bus yesterday, but on the field as well, against the regionally ranked, Kalamazoo College 3-0. Being ranked, the Hornets were expected to slaughter the Belles, according to Matelski. Saint Mary's came on strong in the first half hold­ing the Hornets to a one point led. 
"We played very well against them," said Keary Sulliven, "We were able to match them in the first half, but they had some lucky breaks in the sec­ond half." 
Kalamazoo kept the ball on Saint Mary's side for most of the second half, scoring two more points on the Belles defense. However, the score does not justify the intensity of the game. 
"We played strong all game," said Tiffany Raczynski. "Even though we haven't been win­ning, we don't let up." 
"Our record does not show our potential as a team," said Eileen Newell." We have a lot of skill, but we haven't pulled it all together." 
Saint Mary's has three remaining games in the sea­son, two home and one away. The Belles are hoping to win all three games, not only to improve their overall record, but to go out of the season winning and with a positive attitude, according to Eileen Newell. 
Women's lnterhall 


2 
' 
I .. ­

DAYS UNTIL

f Previews of Off Campus vs. Farley 
r and Knott vs. Lewis. 
MIDNIGHT t See Page 16 
MANIA 

l 
1­
~ 





