--------------~-~ ­


By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
As a result of yesterday's elections for class offices and Student Senate positions, two sophomore class office and off­campus co-president tickets will participate in a runoff this Wednesday. 
In the sophomore class elec­tions, John Kmetz of Fisher, Brian Klausner of Planner, An­drea Smith of Siegfried, and Deborah Hellmuth of ·Pas­querilla East captured 336 votes, over 30 percent of the 1112 votes cast. They will run tomorrow against Bob Ryan of Morrissey, Janine Van Lancker of Siegfried, Katie Flynn of Farley, and Pat Abell of Morris­sey. The Ryan ticket won 312 votes, approximately 28 per­cent of the votes. 
Finishing with nearly 19 per­cent of the sophomore class of­fice votes, the ticket of Ranika Ahuja of Badin, Ted Mahan of Sorin, Jillian Pagliocca of Knott, and Mike Burgdorf of Stanford won 211 votes. Nicole Carl­strom and Lisa Lienhard of Walsh, and Ryan Furmick and Eric Strong of Grace captured over 15 percent of the elec­torate with 170 votes. The tick­et of Cavanaugh residents Matt Pollack, Jeremy Murtaugh, Jerry Spartz, and Marni Ryan of Pangborn won almost 7 and a half percent of the electorate, or 83 votes. 
The seven-ticket race for off­campus co-presidents was ex­tremely close this year, accord­ing to Andrew Alfers, judicial coordinator. 
"If the results differ by ten votes or less, we have to re­count the votes," said Alfers. 
Nikole Reidlinger and Matt Reh won over 27 percent of the electorate with 118 votes. To­morrow they will run against Chad Clay and Brian Harron, who captured 70 votes, or 

Roemer will 
over three percent of the votes cast. 
run for 
The following elections will not go to a runoff. 
third term 
In the junior class election, By JOHN LUCASGeorge Fischer of Fisher, Matt 
Associate News Editor 
Schindler of Morrissey, Missy Deckard of Pasquerilla West, 
Stressing initiatives towardand Dominic Amorosa of Zahm helping children and improving 
won over 53 percent of the the structure of the family,
electorate with 522 votes. 
Democratic congressman
Finishing with nearly 4 7 per­and Notre
cent, the ticket of John Dame alum­
Giovacco of Planner, Jason 
nus Tim
Laurie of Cavanaugh, Melanie 
Roemer
Sissel of Pangborn, and Nicole 
recently
Bohn of Siegfried received 446 
announced
votes. 
his candidacy for re-election Running unopposed for senior to the Houseclass office, Joe Bergan of of Representatives. 
Dillon, Colleen Campbell of Far­"My highest policy priority asley, Pat Grogan of Grace, and a member of Congress is in­Jane Daly of Lyons won 543 vesting in America's youngestvotBs, or over 77 percent of the 
generation, because helping
electorate. 
our youngest generation reach their potential will mean a bet­In the race for South Quad ter America for every genera­senator, Brian Foley of Fisher tion," he said in announcing his received 380 votes, or over 52 candidacy on February 17. 
percent of the votes cast. Brian 
After establishing a task
McCarthy of Alumni won just force on education during his 
over 4 7 percent Qf the elec­
current term, Roemer plans ontorate with 342 votes. 
continuing working for the bet­
Walsh freshman Amy 
terment of children, with a spe­Jagodzinski ran unopposed for cial focus on keeping children
God Quad Senator. She re­
in school. 
ceived 290 votes, or over 84 "Look closely at most of those percent of the electorate. 
Americans bringing violence to our schools and streets and you 
In the North Quad senate will find children who are
election, Zahm junior Sean Sul­dropouts," he said . 
livan won over 77 percent of Maintaining the structure ofthe electorate with 495 votes. 
the family and continuing to in­
Farley freshman Shannon 
crease education is one of the Lennard received 142 votes, or most important ways to curbapproximately 22 percent. 
crime and violence, he said. "I focus on children . . 
Sara Skalicky, a Knott junior, 
because I ran for Congress
captured 530 votes and over 65
16.36 percent of the electorate. Parry captured almost 14 per­three years ago to be a part of
percent of the electorate in the
Close behind were Dana An­cent of the electorate with 59 shaping our nation's future,"
Mod Quad senator election.
derson and Brian Deeley, who votes. Finishing with 30 votes, he said. "Tomorrow, when
Freshman Tom Mattzie re­
received 69 votes and 16.12 or about 7 percent of the elec­hundreds of American young­
ceived nearly 35 percent of the 
percent of the votes. Molly Do­torate, was the ticket of Thad sters will commit violent
electorate with 284 votes. 
nius and Michael McEvilly won Nation and Steven Sostak. crimes, is the future." 
The newly elected tickets will 
68 votes, or 15.89 percent. Brian Kickham and Jordan 
take office on April 1.
Timothy O'Driscoll and Patrick Maggio received 14 votes, just see ROEMER I page 4 


Professors look for alternatives during teachers' strike 
By ELIZABETH REGAN Hachen Associate Professor of the school system may not be said. "It is detrimental because Saint Mary's News Editor Sociology at Notre Dame. the best solution. they are destroying the school Joel Cooper, the Assistant corporation in order to save it." 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Director of Enterprisewide "We must recognize that pub­If the strike continues, many Mary's professors are taking a Services Development at Notre lic education is a community parents may turn to private stand in the community by Dame, originally decided to service beyond education," he schools in the area. keeping their send his third grader to said. "Some working parents do children at 
Jefferson Elementary school if not have a choice and have to "Eventually parents will be home since there was a substitute teacher send their children." looking for alternatives that will the South and things looked reasonable. lead to a school system that is B e n d Many professors have been poorer in spirit, poorer in stu­Teachers' • Upon arriving at Jefferson on teaching their children lessons dents, and poorer in money," Strike began Thursday morning and being at home. Cooper continued. "They are last Thursday. the only adult in sight, Cooper risking the future of the com­
decided to keep his child at "We have structured activities munity." 
"We support home. such as spelling , reading and 
"There was no way that math exercises for our first and Cooper faults the National
the teachers Professor 
and don't feel . 'quality education' was going third graders," said David Education Association and ad­as if we'd be David Hachen on there," he said. "Luckily the Beston, Director of Hesburgh ministration's hostility for the satisfied with the education kids were doing what they nor­Program of Public Service and strike. 
going on in the classrooms right mally did on autopilot." Associate Professor in the now," said Saint Mary's Economics Department. "Our "It is up to the people in bar­Sociology lecturer Henry Borne. Attendance was about 42 per­sixth grader is keeping himself gaining positions to act like 
As educators, they seem to cent of normal enrollment on busy." adults and hammer it out," relate closely and support fully Monday and has decreased Cooper said. the South Bend teachers' de­from 57 percent when the Not only are the children the "There also needs to be pres­mands. strike began on Thursday. losers in this situation, but the sure from the community 
"Kids are huddled around community is as well, according because the bottom line is that 
"Movement by the School watching movies," Borne said, to Cooper. the community is not being Corporation is needed to realize "it's just not worth it." served and the administrators that teachers are worth their Despite the significant de­"The strike has a negative are playing fast and loose with weight in gold," said David crease in attendance, closing impact on the community," he ·our future." 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, March 1, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


Students hurt 
most by strike 
Generally when thinks of the word "strike" they think of two parties: the workers and the employer(s). In the case of the South Bend Community School Corporation's teachers' strike, however, there is a third party to be consid­ered. 
In addition to the teachers who have left 

their classrooms until their demand for a three percent pay raise has been met by the superintendent of schools, Virginia Calvin, and her school board. a third party is waiting in limbo -the students. 
South Bend school teachers are reliving the late sixties, the local media is enjoying some heated controversy and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are making a quick buck "scabbing," but what's the message of all these actions to the students? 
Students learn in health class that the effects of marijuana on the body are hardly different than the effects of alcohol, but they learn that marijuana is the worse vice because it is illegal. Some of the same teachers who have warned students against breaking drug laws are now breaking laws themselves. Striking is illegal. 
Now don't get me wrong. There is a differ­ence between being against the strike and against teachers, just as there's a difference between marijuana and alcohol. 
I support the demands of South Bend teach­ers for a pay increase, an increase in respect from the school board and a seven-hour school day, but I do not think their ends justify their means. But morality and legality aren't the only issues; these strikers are making are direct impact on the youth on this community .• 
They call themselves educators. 
After teachers have gone to great lengths to discourage and prevent truancy, they are skip­ping school themselves. 
Most parents spend years stressing the importance of perfect, or at least good, atten­dance. This week, however, some parents have to explain to their children why they will not be going to school; that because the teachers are behaving in a manner that would mean deten­tion for students, kids will not be getting on the bus for a while. 
Some parents, who cannot afford day care, are being forced to send their children into an environment that should be a guaranteed safe place but this week it is not. 
For parents who are giving the schools a chance, their children are crossing the picket line only to enter schools where attendence is less than half on the part of both students and teachers; thus, quality education means movies, games and any kind of busy work that will kill time until teachers and the administra­tion return peacable to the budget table to come to a peacable resolution. 
For striking teachers their crusade is worth sacrificing $250 to $300 in wages each day and being held in contempt of court. For the super­intendent and school board, sacrificing the rep­utation and function of their school system will be worth it if they don't have to renegotiate teachers' contracts. But what are the children worth? They say that this ordeal will ultimate­ly benefit the students because if working con­ditions are improved, education will improve. What about the long term effects of the mes­sages being sent here? 
It is time teachers and administrators re­examine who should be top priority -the stu­dents. Afterall, isn't that why they are in the education business? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Corrine Doran Jason Thomas Dave Tyler Lab Tech Sports Kyle Kusek Tim Sherman Production Business Erin Purtell David Clairmont Kathie Young Michael Martin Graphics Chris Weirup 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Mary Good Accent Editor 
Lebanon buries church bombing victims 
JOUNIEH, Lebanon 
Anguished relatives flung themselves on coffins Monday at a funeral for nine Maronite Catholics that was held at the church where the victims died in a bomb explosion. Thousands of mourners gathered in and outside the Notre Dame de la Delivrance, which had been cleared of debris and blood stains overnight. The dead included a 4­year-old girl. The bomb exploded during Mass. Across the country, Muslims joined Christians in a government­sanctioned shutdown to show their solidarity against a rekindling of the 1975-1990 civil war. Government offices, schools, businesses, restaurants and recreation centers closed in Christian and Muslim areas. The attack was a setback for Prime Minister Rafik Hariri's efforts to rid Lebanon of the terrorist image it acquired during the civil war, when assassinations, hijackings, kidnappings and suicide bombings occurred regularly.There was no claim of responsibility for the church bombing in the Zouq Mikael neighborhood of Jounieh, 12 miles north of Beirut. Media reports said up to six people were being interrogated. The bombing also wounded 60 people. But the casualties could have been far worse: a larger bomb was found inside the church's organ and defused. President Elias Hrawi and dozens of other dignitaries attended the funeral. The altar was hastily repaired, but walls still bore shrapnel scars and a small crater in the floor was covered by a piece of plywood. 
Russia expels U.S. diplomat 
MOSCOW 
Russia expelled a senior U.S. diplomat 
Monday to retaliate for Washington's expulsion of a Russian intelligence offi­cer -a tit-for-tat action reminiscent of the Cold War. Among his own spies, President Boris Yeltsin did some house­cleaning, firing the head of Russia's counterintelligence agency which pro­vides the Kremlin with reports on the political situation inside the country. 

The abrupt removal of Nikolai Golushko was another sign of continued disarray in Yeltsin's camp, as well of the ongoing turmoil in Russia's internal intelligence opera­tions. But Russia reacted swiftly on the foreign front, ordering U.S. Embassy counselor James Morris to leave the country within seven days. The action was a reminder that the Cold War legacy of mistrust still clouds efforts to forge a new U.S.-Russian partnership. Russia's expulsion of a U.S. diplomat had been expected after Alexander Lysenko, chief of Russia's intelligence station in Washington, was ordered Friday to leave the United States within seven days. U.S. officials said Lysenko "was in a position to be responsible" for CIA officer Aldrich Ames and his wife, Rosario, who were charged last week with spying for Moscow since 1985. 
Airlines cut some cross-country fares by half 
NEW YORK 
Major airlines matched an America West promotion Monday by cutting some cross-country air fares up to 52 percent. The discounts apply only to a dozen America West routes, and other carriers matched the cuts only on routes where they compete. Passengers have until March 10 to buy tickets, and trips must be completed by June 
15. The sale is one of the biggest since the half-price sale of the summer of 1992, which devasted airline finances. Unlik.e that sale, America West's cut comes during a sea­son when fares are usually discounted to some extent and come from a higher base price. With 14-day advance purchase, Saturday night stay and mid-week travel, the New York-San Francisco round-trip fare is cut to $318 from $659. The smallest discount, 29 percent, was applied to Milwaukee-Phoenix. $348 from $492. America West also extended an existing 30 percent sale. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
Colombus Dallas 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 1. 
FRONTS: 
.............-........... .....--ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 0 1994 Accu-Wealher. Inc. 
HL 
HIGH LOW 
ViaAaaoc::MIIIdP'rttss 
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago 
Algerian police officers hijack jet, surrender 
MADRID 
Three Algerian policemen hijacked a domestic flight with 131 people aboard Monday and forced it to land in southern Spain. They surrendered hours later, but were denied political asylum. It wasn't clear whether the hijackers were fleeing political violence in Algeria, where Muslim radicals have targeted soldiers, police, intellectu­als and foreigners in a two-year campaign against the army-backed regime. The Air Algerie plane was en route from Oran, in western Algeria, to Annaba, near the Tunisian border, when the three forced the crew to divert the jet across the Mediterranean to the southern Spanish town of Alicante, authorities said. The Boeing 727, carry­ing 124 passengers and seven crew members, landed without seeking permission from air traffic controllers, and paramilitary Civil Guards surrounded it, authorities said. The hijackers released eight women, two men and two children unharmed, then surrendered several hours later. There were no reported injuries during the hijack­ing. The hijackers carried handguns throughout the five­hour ordeal that was prolonged by language problems between Spanish negotiators and the Arabic-and French-speaking hijackers, said Alfonso Calve, civil gov­ernor of the Alicante region. Calve said the three police­men would remain in custody pending an investigation and would not be granted the political asylum they had requested. 
Cardinal dropped from sex abuse lawsuit 
CINCINNATI 
A man who accused Cardinal Joseph Bernardin of sex­ually abusing him in the 1970s dropped his lawsuit against the Roman Catholic prelate Monday, saying his memory was unreliable. Steven Cook, 34, filed a $10 mil­lion lawsuit Nov. 12 in Cincinnati claiming that Bernardin and the Father Ellis Harsham of Beavercreek sexually abused him from 1975 to 1977 when he was a high school student attending a program at a Cincinnati semi­nary. Bernardin, now cardinal of Chicago's 2.3 million­member archdiocese, was Cincinnati's archbishop at the time. "I harbor no ill feelings toward Steven Cook," Bernardin told a news conference in Chicago. "I have compassion for him. I have prayed for him every day, and I will continue to do so." Cook also accused the Arch­diocese of Cincinnati and archdiocesan officials, including current Archbishop Daniel Pilarczyk. of negligence for allowing the alleged abuse. Only Bernardin was dropped from the lawsuit, which is to go to trial May 9. Bernardin, Harsham and the other defendants have said repeatedly they did nothing wrong. But on Monday, he asked U.S. District Judge Arthur Spiegel to drop Bernardin as a defendant, saying in a court filing he was no longer sure if memories that arose during hypnosis "are true and accurate." 
Another Janet Jackson concert postponed 
DENVER 
A second Janet Jackson concert was postponed Monday because the singer still hasn't recovered from the flu that forced her to cut short a performance last week. Jackson was rushed to a Salt Lake City hospital Saturday night after she became ill during a concert. She was treated in the emergency room for flulike symptoms and dehydration and released. Concerts scheduled for 

Sunday night in Salt Lake City and Tuesday night in Denver were canceled. Fans were urged to save their ticket stubs because Jackson planned to reschedule both concerts, said Jackson's tour manager, Marty Hom. "Jackson ... has been suffering from the flu," he said. "She is extremely sorry to disappoint her fans." 
m ~[Til 0 ~§i) ~u 
SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
51  37  Denver  51  33  Palatine  33  16  
38  14  Los Angeles  76  52  Philadelphia  34  16  
29  13  Miami  74  64  Phoenix  75  53  
32  15  Minneapolis  33  17  St. Louis  39  28  
36  16  New Orleans  68  36  San Francisco  73  48  
.56  46  New York  34  14  Seattle  58  48  

Tuesday, March 1, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Southern Mricans struggle in post-Portuguese period 
By SUSAN McCABE 
News Writer 
Southern Africa has been in a constant state of change since the fall of the Portuguese colo­nial empire, Victor Evans Machingaidze told an audience at Saint Mary's Stapelton Lounge as a part of Black His­tory Month celebrations. 
Machingaidze, a professor at the University of Zimbabwe, offered his perspective on eco­nomic, political and social de­velopments as well as the influ­ence of Western powers in the· newly liberated countries of southern Africa at the lecture. 
"The history of Western rela­tions with southern Africa is nothing to be proud about," said Machingaidze as he ex­plained the colonial relation­ship which existed between Portugal and several southern sixty to one-hundred thousand migrant workers, Portugal prof­

Happy 21st 
ited greatly. Under the system, the workers only received a small percentage of their salaries while the remaining percentage went to the South
Laura! 
African Reserve Bank which in turn paid the Portuguese gov­ernment in gold. 
Will you be able to conquer 
In 1961 and 1964 wars broke out against Portuguese rule in
it after three drinks? 
Angola and Mozambique. Machingaidze explained that Portuguese colonial policy "left no room for African national­
Love, 
ism." There was "no way to come to terms peacefully," he said. In 1975, Angola and
Julie, Ann and Ann 
Mozambique were finally grant­ed independence following a 197 4 military coup in Lisbon. 
~tav It Sore for yo..x oUT\ Sat< e~ Be A Oe.-,.ignated Driver! Wear Your Seat Belt! ~-1 
'
• 
Guess who's 
DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE ~ n 0 
Q. 

20 today?
SIGN THE PLEDGE! 
(It's not the cat!) 
Have a good 
one Dana! 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, Andy & Shannon 

~ 
0 
Attention! 
SIGN THE SAFE SPRING BREAK PLEDGE IN SDH AND NDH FEB. 28 & MAR. 1 and 2---­YOU CAN POSSIBLY WIN PRIZES AND 
Programming assistants needed 
YOU CAN DEFINITELY HAVE A SAFE BREAK! 
0 
for 1994-1995 
:::> Sponsored by NU Students Against Dr"nk Driving. 
IT'S BACK! 
Two paid positions are available to students who want to improve
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 
student life by planning and 
5:00p.m... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 
implementing programs sponsored by 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza 
student activities. 
is the time you call! 
Pick up an application in the Student Activities Office (3 I 5 LaFortune) and return it by Thursday, March 3rd. 
Interviews will be conducted March 14th to 18th 
' 
so sign up for an interview when you tum in your 
application. 
Questions? Call Gayle Spencer at 631-7308. 
Free Delivery • 271--1177 

After the liberation of the colonies, one of South Africa's main objectives became to sup­port the destabilization of these new countries. Until recent peace agreements, South Africa's efforts led to devasta­tion in both Mozambique and Angola. 
Recently, South Africa has moved from this policy of desta­bilization to one advocating controlled change. Machingaidze cited the recog­nition of the independence of Nambia and the release of political prisoners such as Nelson Mandela as examples of such change. 
Though these recent changes have brought the first real peace to the region in decades, Machingaidze also pointed that the outcome of these develop­ments have also been fraught with problems. 
One of the major problems concerns the large South African bureaucracy, said Machingaidze. Other problems have resulted form the ANC's promise to guarantee positions for whites for the next five years. Though this move is aimed at giving the present officeholders time to find new employment, many of the for­merly oppressed people looking for openings in the government will be disappointed. 
Still other difficulties will re­sult from the lack of quality ed­ucation for blacks in South Africa and the shortage of land available for relocating dispos­sessed people. 
"The ANC is sort of gagged in many respects," Machingaidze said. 
Finally, Machingaidze stressed the influence of foreign investors in the southern African market. Right now, the ANC "must establish an atmo­sphere which will be conducive to foreign investment," he said. Machingaidze feels that in order for the ANC to stabilize the situation in South Africa, the international community must be understanding. 
In his concluding remarks, Machingaidze stated that "the greatest benefit of the libera­tion of southern Africa is the return of peace which means countries in the area will spend less on defense." However, he also stressed that "for the peo­ple of South Africa liberation will be minimalist unless the ANC can get help from the in­ternational community." 
Machingaidze's lecture was entitled "Southern Africa Since the Fall of the Portuguese Colonial Empire," and was sponsored by the Saint Mary's Office of Multicultural Affairs. 
"AbsoLOUtely No. l" Sweatshirts 
Show the world what you know to be true in your heart! Mavy blue sweatshirts with gold "AbsoLOUtely No. 1" emblazoned on the front. Available in Adult XL only. S19.95 each State quantity and mailing address. 
Moil check or money order to: Leprechoun Productions. P.O. Box 297 Bethel Pork .PA 151 02 
African countries until the mid­1970s. 
The flourishing gold mining industry in South Africa moti­vated Portugal's economic in­terest in the countries of south­ern Africa. Though South Africa itself was not under Portuguese control, the major­ity of workers in its gold mines came from the nearby Por­tuguese colonies of Angola and Mozambique. 
By supplying the mines with 


page4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, March 1, 1994 
Aerial photo to be shot at SMC Resolution warns against 
By PATfl CARSON News Writer 
An aerial "150" picture will be taken Tuesday, March 22 at 4 p.m. to commemorate Saint 
RESIDENCE HALL ASSOC. 
Mary's sesquicentennial year, according to Residence Hall As­sociation (RHA) President Tricia Wallace. 
Students will gather at 3:30 
p.m. in the LeMans circle, 
Roemer 
continued from page 1 
Even with a primary election coming up on May 8, Roemer will not begin to campaign until much closer to the election in November, according to Desiree Green, Roemer's press secre­tary. 
"He's really not focused on the campaign," Green said. "He's just trying to focus on do­ing his job." 
After the May primary, Roe­
311 Main Building Monday through Friday 8:00a.m. ~ 5:00p.m. 
Hall Manager (Full Time) Assistant Manager (Part Time) 

where the picture will be taken at 4:10p.m. Many participants are needed to make this event a success, according to Wallace. 
In other business: 
•Mango Jam, Minneapolis' "tropidelic" quintet, will per­form Wednesday, April 13 from 6-8 p.m. in front of the dining hall. This band will per­form original tunes with roots in funk, reggae, jazz and blues. 
Mango Jam mostly draws from the sounds of Hawaii and 
mer is expecting to run in the general election on Nov. 8, where he hopes to be elected for his third term. 
In addition to being a gradu­ate of Mishawaka's Penn High School, Roemer has received two graduate degrees from Notre Dame in the area of in­ternational affairs. 
As a representative of Indi­ana's 3rd Congressional Dis­trict, Roemer's constituency is made up of residents in St. Joseph, Elkhart and LaPorte counties, as well as parts of Starke and Kosciusko counties. 
the Caribbean with a touch of 
student interference in strike 
Although Roemer has out-last night's meeting. ers," states the resolution. lined an agenda in which he r--:----:-::::---------::-------------, to on 
Th 0 b 
hopes supports bills health care reform, welfare 
reform and anti-crime initia­tives, as well as education, one of his primary goals is to be­
come more responsive to his constituency, he said. 
"I have always believed that an election can and should be about more than simply who gets the most votes," Roemer said. "For me, this campaign is an opportunity to continue an ongoing dialogue with those I serve on the issues that con­cern them most." 
Friends don't let l friends drive drunk. 
~
e s e r.er
.I.. \' 1 
is now accentinu annlicationsfor: 
r 6 r r 
Illustrations Manager 
Applicants for the position should have strong managerial skills as well as illustrations or cartooning experience. Please submit a 1 page personal statement, a 4 x 6 inch editorial cartoon and one original illustration to John Lucas by 3 p.m. Thursday, March 3. For additional information, contact John at 631-4541. 
Spring Break Loan 
$300 minimum $300 maximum Deferred payments 9.4% APR Students with good credit or no credit qualify 
No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 288-NDCU 
Independent of the Universi1y 
The resolution pointed out that Notre Dame students' in­volvement as substitute teach­ers may be seen as taking a side, according to Hungeling. 
"The Student Senate calls upon the student body to rec­ognize the complexity and seriousness of the teacher's strike, and that substitute teaching may directly under­mine efforts of striking teach­Grateful Dead and Steely Dan influences, according to a Min­nesota newspaper. 
Performing tunes such as "Chaoss in the Kitchen" and "Kind Nectar," these music makers will bring their "tropi­cal island funk" to Saint Mary's. 
•Regina Hall raised $50 in Penny Wars, the residence hall fundraiser. This amount will be doubled and sent to victims of the Los Angeles earthquake. 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
A resolution addressing the South Bend teachers strike which stresses that Notre 
STUDENT SENATE 
Dame remain neutral through­out the controversy was pro­posed by Student Body Presi­dent Elect David Hungeling, sparking a heated debate at 
MINORITIES IN ACADEMIA 
A Presentation by 
DR. ARNOLD L. MITCHEM EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, N.C.E.O.A. WASHINGTON D.C. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 1993 
7:00 P.M. HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
SPONSORED BY THE CANDAX MCNAIR PROGRAM 
INTERESTED FACULTY AND STUDENTS ARE INVITED REFRESHMENTS IN LIBRARY LOUNGE AT 8:00 P.M. 
Tuesday, March 1, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
CLC explores empowerment British colonialistn 
By MEGAN THOMAS 
News Writer 
Yesterday's Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting dealt with the issue of student em­powerment. 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
A Student Senate proposal which was recently presented to the Board of Trustees sug­gests that Student Senate reso­lutions should be presented di­rectly to the administration, without having to be first ac­tration should be restructured cepted by the CLC -a body in order to improve communi­composed of students, faculty cation between student govern­members and rectors. ment and the administration. 
As the constitution is now William Kirk, assistant vice structured, Student Senate res­president for student affairs, olutions are not guaranteed to was opposed to the idea of stu­be met with a response from dent empowerment on the the Office of Student Affairs. grounds that, to his knowledge Resolutions passed by the CLC no Student Senate resolutions will gain a response within had been presented before the seven days of submission. CLC for consideration. Fur­
It was argued that the way ther, Kirk did not believe that in which student resolutions any change in the governmen­are presented to the adminis-tal process was necessary. 
Student body president 
r-----::::---------::;-------------, Frank Flynn stated that he did 
The 0 bSefVier 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
. 
Applicants should be looking for a great opportunity to gam valuable office and sales experience. Applicants should have strong self-motivation, creativity, and an interest in marketing and business. Anyone interested should submit a 
11 d M h 15th
1-2 page resume to Eric Lorge by 5 p.m. ues ay, arc in the advertising office, 3'd floor LaFortune. For more information, contact Eric at 634-1179 or 631-8840.
L ______..:....__________________~­

Have A Spring Break to Remetnber 
Spring Break...isn't that one of your favorite things I? hear? It's that break from the stresses and strains ot school, if only for a shon time. But just because you're resting your body and mind doesn't mean you can stop thinking! 
BACCHUS and GAMJ\.tA encourage you to play it safe during Spring Break this year. Whatever your plans are. make sure they include these tips: 
• 
Remember you don't have to be "drunk" to be impaired-even one or two drinks affect your driving skills. 

• 
Drinking, drugs and driving don't mix. 

• 
Take your turn being a designated driver-get everyone where they are going safely. 

• 
Respect other people's right, and your own--to choose not to drink. TI1ere's plenty of fun to be had without alcohol. 

• 
Respect state laws and campus policies. 

• 
Don't let your friends drive impaired-it's one of the fastest ways to end a friendship. 

• 
Wear your seat belt--it's your best protection against an impaired driver. 

• 
Ifone ofyour friends drinks to excess to the point of passing out, stay with him/her-make sure they sleep on their side and check their breathing periodically. If you are the least bit concerned, please seek medical attention. Better safe than sorry! 


Play it safe...and sign the pledge. 
Sponsored  By:  
Office  of Alcohol  and  Drug  Education  
Students  Against  Drunk  Driving  

I I : Have A Spring Break to Remember I 
I I
IThe BACCHUS Spring Break Pledge: 
I 
• 
I promise not to drink and dri\'C.: during Spring Break. I or lt:t any of my friends get behind the ,,·heel impaired. I 

• 
I \Viii not ride in a car when the dri\·er has been drinking. 

• 
I will \Vear my seat belt, whether I'm driving or a passenger. 

• 
I \\'ill watch out for my ti·iends. take care of myself and have a great Spring Break! 


Sigm:d not wish to diminish the power of the CLC; rather, the student empowerment resolution would only increase the amount of influence exerted by Student Senate. 
The faculty members pre­sent at the meeting were gen­erally more receptive to the concept of student empower­ment. Professor James Collins of the department of Commu­nications and Theatre agreed
that the Student Senate should be able to submit resolutions to the administration. 
The meeting ended with several council members voic­
ing their frustration regarding the perceived lack of the defmition of the role of the CLC
in campus government, and 
the lack of communication between students and the administration. 
still affecting India 
By MARY PELZER 
News Writer 
In a discussion on the re­gional disparities in India, graduate student Jainshakar Raman stressed the effect of British colo­nial policies on various Indian states and how they started the cycle of unequal stan­dards of living in different 

Raman
parts of India. 
Addressing the weekly De­velopment and International Workshop sponsored by the Department of Economics yes­terday, Raman drew upon ex­tensive doctoral studies of the area. 
British agricultural policies were a powerful force inspiring success in certain areas of In­dia, while contributing to the economic decline of others, ac­cording to Raman. In states like Punjab and Madras, where more effective land tilling pro­cedures motivated rises in the level of productivity, economic development was extensive. In contrast, farming techniques promoted by the English in 
Taste the 
Worlds 
(-ffeatest
Tuna Sandwich. 
r:n 
"'t:: 
>
-z 
For program details complete the coupon below and mail it to: Boston University International Programs 232 Bay State Road. Box Q. Boston, MA 02215 • 617/353·9888 
An eq1141 opporrwUiy. aJjinnaJive action instiluJion 
AUSTRALIA RUSSIA ENGLAND 
Please rank as 1.2, and 3 the programs in which you are most interested. You will receive information on all of our international programs 
Internship Programs Language and Liberal Arts Programs 
D London, England D Paris, France D Belize D Niamey, Niger D Madrid, Spain D Sydney, Auslffilia []Grenoble, France []Oxford, England D Moscow, Russia D Washington, D.C. D Haifa, Israel D Padova, haly 
• D Madrid, Spain DQuilo, Ecuador 

Global Internship and Language Programs
·­
. 
-
~
4
"'
INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS 
BOSTON 
UNIVERSITY 
I am interested in other programs/countries: ------------­1 would like to receive infonnation about your semester/summer programs (circle one). 
Name ___________________________________________ Street-----------City _________ 
Fill t ·erse side 
-----Zip -----Phone..J.__,J.._______
+---------:._::"_~-:_:_---------------,~.::.::.;~::::;;;;;;;;.......;;;;..;....__;D=:S;;:o;.....-=D.;.;.Jr_-=D~S;...r__....;I;..:r==~c;;;;at;.;t6~17....;13;.;;;53;.,;·!1~888;;;;;...o_, 
Bengal provided no incentive to increase output; consequently, the region's growth rate was significantly slower. 
Colonial industrial policies also played an important role in deciding the economic fate of Indian states. In Bombay a successful cotton industry, fi­nanced from local private capi­tal and concentrated on do­mestic production, was encour­aged. 
In Calcutta the British endorsed and subsidized an export-oriented jute industry. The Bombay region fared much better economically than Calcutta following India's inde­pendence from Great Britain in 1947, said Raman. 
What Raman sees as espe­cially troubling is that the trend appears to continue. As proof, Raman cited recent statistics showing that in terms of per capita state domestic product, states in the west and north­west have income levels much higher than the national aver­age whereas incomes in the east are much lower. 
"Social indicators reinforce this study," Raman said. "Data on infant mortality rates, levels of education and availability of infrastructure all suggest in­congruities existing between the different states." 
The government's increas­ingly liberalized policies threat­en to only make the current sit­uation worse, said Raman. The last three years have witnessed a relaxation of import policies in an attempt to loosen control of state development. The result is that more foreign capi­tal flows into already developed places. 
"It enhances problems that 
are already in existence," Ra­
man said. 
Not surprisingly, the large 
variances in standards of living 
and economic prosperity are 
the cause of much recent politi­
cal tension in India. Some 
members of the poorer states, 
not liking the current situation, 
want to break away from India. 
Likewise Punjab, one of the 
more economically successful 
states, is experiences political 
problems because some people 
complain that too many re­
sources are going to other 
states, according to Raman. 
"To understand why these 
things happen," Raman ex­
plained, "we have to ask 'What 
are the stories behind the sit­
uation?' The United States is 
homogeneous. In India, if 
you're from Bombay, you're 
completely unlike someone 
from West Bengal. You don't 
understand the language, and 
you have different ethnic iden­
tities. That's why we can't ig­
nore this issue, and why we 
must study the historical pro­
cess in order to attract private 
capital to these struggling re­
gions. We must end the dispar­
ities." 
Ace Ventura: Pet Detecllve IPG·13):12:30, 2:45, 5:15l7:45i 10:00 
Blank Check (PG : 12: 5, 2:30, 5:00,
7:00,9:15 :,~~G~o81d Man (PG-13): 1:15,4:15, 
My father lila Hero (PG): 12:45, 3:00,
5:00, 7:30, 10:00 V:,~e~~~ Ground (R): 2:00, 4:30, 
Reality Bltes(PG·13): 2:15,4:45, 7:00,
9:30 
Blue Chlps(PG·13):Dally:4:30, 7:00, 
9:30 Mrs. DoubHire(PG·13):Dally:4:15, 7:15 ,10:00 
My Girl II(PG):Daily:5:00, 7:30, 9:45 
The Observer • YUGOSLAVIA NEWS Tuesday, March 1, 1994 

jevo. 
Bosnian government officials, who have appealed repeatedly for outside help for their out­gunned troops, were exuberant. 
"Better days are ahead of us," Bosnian Vice President Ejup Ganic said in Sarajevo, Bosnia's capital. 
Russia, a traditional Serb ally that criticized NATO over its ul­timatum to Serbs on the Sara­jevo siege, reacted mildly to the clash. "If the Serbs did this, I see no justification," said De­fense Minister Pavel Grachev. 
Although Russia has warned that military intervention could worsen the war, Grachev said he did not think the incident 

Your Future Is In Washington. 
Maximize Your Career Potential with Special 

My Future Is in Washington This Summer! 
Please rush mr' the following information: 
0  199·~ Summer Sessions Bulletin with course  
descriptions, special programs, Study Abroad  
prograrns. schedules, and registration information.  
0  GW's 'rr·ar-round Undergraduate Programs  
0  GW\ Yr·ar-round Graduate Prop:rams  
:]  19'J I S11rnrrrer Se~sions  Strrdy :\broad Program'  
Ill  

Summer Programs 
• 
Prevention of Terrorism 

• 
Historical Archaeology 

• 
History in the Media 

• 
Sport & Event Management 

• 
Tropical Marine Biology 

• 
Publication Institute 

• 
International Education: Indonesia and Malaysia 


would escalate the conflict. 
Hours after the planes were downed, Karadzic arrived in Moscow to consult with Russian diplomats. The Bosnian Serb leader told reporters at Moscow's airport his visit was meant to "ensure the peace process," but he declined fur­ther comment. 
U.S. Adm. Jeremy Boorda, the NATO commander for southern Europe, said the lesson to be learned from the incident was simple: "You ought not to vio­late the no-fly zone." He said NATO would not hesitate to fire on any other violators. 
The pilot who shot down the fourth Serb aircraft, identified 
Happy 21st Birthday 
[))~~ CC©~~~ 
Love, Dad, Mom, Jerry, Brian, Chris, Tim, Gina, Diana and Max 
• 
GW Madrid Centre 

• 
Public Relations 

• 
Total Quality Management in Higher Education 

• 
Information Systems 

• 
Legal Assistant 

• 
Latin America: Cultural 


and Business Environment • A11d Ma11y More! 
Choose from aVariety of Options 
at The George Washington University Two main 6-week sessions: May ll -Jrme 22 and Jwte 27 -August 8. Plus sessions ranging from one­week field sessions to 1.3-wcek seminars. 
For More Information, ~The 
can 202-994-6360 or mail or fax the  as  1re:el.l.'igtpn  
coupon below.  ruv~tcy  
WASHINGtON  DC  

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Name D.O. B. _____ 
Current Address--------------­City _______Stat., ____ Zip ___ 
Phone ( )______________ Return (Ompleted form to: The George Washington Unin·r,ity. 1994 Summer Sessions 2121 Eye Street, NW. Washin~ton. DC 20052 I· \X (202)<J!J,PJI :3:3. 
only as Yogi, said of the inci­dent, "It wasn't much of a con­test." He was interviewed by 
U.S. journalists in a joint tele­phone interview from Washington. 
The ban was imposed in Oc­tober 1992, after Bosnian Serbs had overrun about 70 percent of Bosnia's territory in fighting with government soldiers and Bosnian Croat forces. About 200,000 people have been reported dead or missing since the war began over Bosnia's secession from Serb-dominated Yugoslavia. 
Boorda said U.S. pilots de­tected six planes by radar and broadcast three warnings for them to immediately land or leave Bosnian air space or risk attack. No response was re­ceived, and the Americans then saw the planes "make a bomb­ing maneuver" and witnessed explosions on the ground. 
One U.S. plane then shot down three planes with air-to­air missiles and a second U.S. plane downed a fourth, Boorda said at a briefing in Naples, Italy. The two other planes es­caped by flying west over Croa­tia and then north and back east over Banja Luka, a Serb­controlled region in northwest­ern Bosnia, NATO said. Many of the Bosnian Serb aircraft are based in Banja Luka. 
ATTENTION:  To  be  elil~ible  for  our  
local  campus  drawing  for  gifts  or  
the  national  drawing  for  a  FREE  

car. please fill out both sides of the pledge coupon below and mail or drop by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. Mezzanine Level. LaFortune Student Center. Notre Dame. IN 46')')6 (219-631-7970)_ 
(/) 
'0 0 
~ 
Ul 
0
., 
CD 0.. 


0' 
'< 
0

-, 
~ 
() 
CD 
GAMMA
0
-, 
~ 
0 
0 
::r 
2. 
Ill 
~ 
0.. 
t:;j
., 
c 
(1Q 
tT.1 
0.. 
c: 
() 
Ill 
c. 
0 
~ 
l<" 

(/) 
...... 
c 
0.. 
CD 
~ 
...... 
Ul 
., 
c: 
~ 
;><;­
t:;j
.,<"
s· 
00 Fill out portlon below to be eligible for the Grand Prize. 

Nrune 
School 
Address 
City/State/Zip 
Phone ( ) 
~--------------------------~ 
BUSINESS 
Tuesday, March 1, 1994 page? 
FACULTY BUSINESS FORUM 
Strike is a vvaste of human capital 
For over ten years innovative 
U.S. firms have adopted the "Japanese-German-Swedish" style management. Loyal workers, coop­erative rather than conflictual 
. labor relations, and team produc­tion explains some Japanese supe­riority over US producers. Building trust between management and workers, and, more important, cooperation between co-workers, has something for everyone. Workers work harder and prof­itable innovations flow from ongoing communication between managers and line workers. Unions in this setting are needed for three reasons: 1.) The union makes pay a nonarbitrary, open, rule-based system. 2.) The union grievance procedures give a voice to dis­gruntled but skilled workers who would otherwise leave; and 3.) the union protects a worker in a total quality managment environment who might be critical of managment, or make the suggestion that her or his job is redundant and unecessary. Without job security employee suggestions change lunch room paint, but not the bottom line. 
The new management yields more productivity ­more goods and services per person, a larger standard of living. These cooperative, worker-protected forms of managment are not about taking sides -about decid­ing who should get a larger piece of the pie. These innovations concern the quality and size of the pie. There are still old style, I-want-more-than-you-man­agers in America. A good example is the relations between the South Bend School Corporation and its teachers. 
Along with professionals and factory workers, Indiana teachers unionized to maintain professional standards. The teachers also engage in collective bar­gaining, which economists call a countervailing monop­oly against the monopoly the School Board has on jobs. The union provides a wage floor, not ceiling. 
When the School Corporation refused to negotiate they missed the dialogue that comes from bargaining. The teachers don't want to stop cooperating with each other and start competing against each other. The school district has gone through hard times; Indiana is not a pro-education state and tax revenue has not been enough to maintain or improve quality. 
Unions, it is widely known, have made concessions when presented with sickly balance sheets. Community examples include: AM General, Bendix, Torrington, and Uniroyal workers who all took pay and benefit cuts in negotiations. 
Who Dr. Calvin might be copying is President Ronald Reagan's success at breaking the air traffic controllers strike in 1981. By forcing the Controllers on strike by refusing to bargain, 10,000 highly trained employees went to work at jobs at half their salaries requiring a fraction of their skill. That represents both human cap­ital and Gross Domestic Product lost forever. 
In this South Bend teachers strike the size of the pie is discussed, but not its quality. The School Board Corporation has chosen not to negotiate in good faith since August. By keeping the schools open they can col­lect money from the State as if they were educating the students. Since many students are not attending school in support of the strike, when a substitute is hired two or three classes are combined so that education seems to be going on. The School Corporation reports that all three classes, the normal amount, is learning, for instance. science. The substitutes are allowing the School Corporation to pretend that the situation is under control. This is worse than having no computer chips in US air traffic control towers. 
Destroying a union diminishes job security and pro­motes competitive and secret wage setting processes. Both, the innovators say, worsen the quality of the product. This would be a shame jf the union was the United Auto Workers and the product was rear axles or batteries. It is a national tragedy with long term ramifi­cations when the product is education. 
-M. Teresa Ghilarducci is an Assistant Professor of Economics. 

M CI invests in mobile phone firm 
By JEANNINE A VERSA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
MCI Communications Corp. moved today to become a major competitor in wireless commu­nication, investing $1.3 billion in one of the nation's largest mobile radio companies. 
MCI's alliance with Nextel Communications thrusts the nation's second largest telephone into the fast-growing wireless mar­ket. MCI Chairman Bert Roberts said he expected that market to grow over the next 10 years from today's 15 million customers to as many as 90 million. 
Before today's development, AT&T was poised to dominate that market through its pending acqui­sition of McCaw Cellular Communications, the nation's No. 1 cellular phone provider. 
MCI's alliance will mean con­sumers will be able to use the same mobile phone and phone number anywhere in the country. Today, with cellular phone service, consumers must look up and punch in "roaming codes" when they travel from city to city. 
Additionally, customers for the new service will be able to use their mobile phones for paging, faxing and other services without needing additional equipment. That is because Nextel's network is all-digital, different from the tech­nology used in many existing cellu­lar services. 
But to do so, consumers will need to buy a sophisticated telephone that will be manufactured by Motorola. The phone is expected to cost $100 and up, said MCI spokesman Kevin Inda. 
Inda said he expected charges for mobile phone services to be in line with those from cellular providers, anywhere from $30 to 
=============-=-,--------___j poned its plans to begin work 

MARKET ROUNDUP 

12/1/93 1/1/94 2/1/94 3/1/94 4/1/94 
Chamber of Commerce shies away from health proposal 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce retreated Monday from its. support for making all employers kick in for health insurance. It also backed off, at least for now, from pushing for universal coverage. 
The chamber's new policy, adopt­ed by its board of directors, now opposes forcing businesses to help pick up the health costs for workers and their families. An employer mandate lies at the heart of President Clinton's troubled health plan. 
"Companies do not like man­dates," Chamber President Richard Lesher said at a news conference after the board of directors reversed its stance. "A very, very substantial portion of our member­ship adamantly opposes mandates and we must recognize that opposi­tion." 
Meanwhile, the House Ways and Means health subcommittee post-
The 220,000-member chamber came under intense pressure from within its ranks and from Republicans on Capitol Hill to abandon its year-old support for "shared responsibility" between employers and employees for health insurance. 
It had rejected previously Clinton's employer mandate, which would saddle businesses with 80 percent of the bills. But as recently as Feb. 15 its health committee reaffirmed support for some form of joint employer-employee contri­butions. 
But with the rival National Federation of Independent Business leading the charge against the 
Clinton  health  plan  and  the  
Business  Roundtable  and  the  
National  Association  of  

Manufacturers both dumping on it, the chamber's leaders decided to harden their line. 
The chamber will canvass all 220,000 members on employer mandates, but leaders said they had no doubt about where the rank and file stood. 
"It's clear ... that our mem­bership is not supportive of an employer mandate approach," said Robert Patricelli, chairman of Value Health Inc. and chairman of the chamber's health committee. 
"We have suspended support for universal coverage." said Lesher. "We have put that on the shelf." 
Clinton has promised to veto any bill that does not guarantee all Americans a comprehensive set of health benefits. 
Tuesday on a reform plan that was expected to differ markedly from the Clinton blueprint. The panel put off the hearing for a week while it waits for the Congressional Budget Office to estimate the cost of alter­native reforms backed by Rep. Pete Stark, D-Calif. 
Stark would jettison Clinton's mandatory insurance purchasing alliances, but force all employers to contribute toward health insurance in some form. 
MCI goes wireless 
MCI Communications Inc. is teaming with three other companies to develop advanced computer technologies that proVide wireless communications well beyond traditional cellular telephones. Th~fgoalls to combine cell phones, answering machines, faxes, computer mod~ms and pagers into one device with one phone number that will work anywhere in the country. A look at the venture: 
The technology: ~~:;:::~. 
Instead of "analog" technology that uses trclQitional radio waves, the companies 
will develop "digital mobile networks." Thesetransmit data that has been· 
converted into the billions of ones and zeros recognized by computers. This data 
is sent over radio waves using aud,jo pulses' that sound like modems or fax 
machines. ,( ...... ' .;;z.. ' 
The partners: ;'il ; ·, 
NEXTEJ, Nextel C "~1 mt,~plcatioos c., Rutherford. N.J. 
Started in 1987, building tw<?-W • . iosystems'tor fleets and ot~~r b~sin~sses. 
Now serves 200,000 subscnbers '!~ ··· .S. Recently . . , ade deals g1vmg 11 rad1o 
frequencies that could reach 95 p~rcenlof they:s:;population. MCJ MCI Communicltio~;~~~--.. 
~;:~:,:: /~:,·:".',';") X~iE# 
The nation's 2nd largest long distan(;e · · . Investing $1.3 billion in 
Nextel, in exchange for 17 percent PY,. allow Nextel to convert its 
radio networks to digital technologY• M J1ew service. 
~CDMCAST' Comq~si . lphia. 
Operator of cable TV, cellular phone fy ·Northeast. Cellular networks serve population ofl)l n. Owns 17 percent of Nextel. Will also market th$ new communication$ services. 
®Motorola Inc., Schaum~!:?g;IIL· .......,.•. , ..... 
The country's biggest cellular phone manufacturer. In November, sold 2,500 radio frequencies in 21 states to Nextel, in exchange for 20 percent ownership. Will make the new communication device, price $100 and up. Monthly cost of service: similar to 
cellular, roughly $30 to $60 a month. 

MCI will market the new service nationally. In local markets, it will be marketed by Comcast Corp., one of the nation's largest cable TV companies. Comcast owns a 17 percent stake in Nextel. 
The arrangement will give Comcast customers "one-stop shopping" for services ranging from video to telephone, said Bill Dordelman, Comcast's assistant treasurer and director of finance. 
As. the first crucial step in its "networkMCI" program -the company's business and marketing communications services -the alliance provides MCI with a leg up on entering an evolving business called "personal communications service." 
Unlike its competitors, the new venture will not have to depend on getting radio frequencies from the FCC because Nextel already has them. The FCC is scheduled to begin auctioning radio frequencies for personal communications ser­vice in May but the process may be delayed. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, March 1, 1994 


Christian compassion and AIDS 
"N0/300Y fiVeR. 6Avc;M&­"YOUHEARJJ 
''Inever give them hell. I
ANYTHING. I HA/J TO M8-ti/Hf!a<. MAKe A 
IJJORJ<. HAR/? FO!<. 20 7H8/.JTTlC NOTC. IF 
just tell them the truth
YeARS TO 6nMiff£ 7W!T1'' 5H&'51NNO­I AM TO/JAY. NOE3(Xl'/ aNT,Jlff 
and they think it's hell." 
CAN 7:4K8 ?HAT 68!'3 7HAT
I 
AUJAYR<OM M&-, UN&-, N0/30/JY.'" \ 
~ 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor ............. jennifer Habrych 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of eirher institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EdicorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Spotts 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the column by Frank Pimentel on the Feb. 25 Viewpoint page. 
Pimentel begins his column by questioning Michael Thurner's statement from Feb. 21 that Notre Dame's response to the AIDS epidemic has been un-Christian. In the column Pimentel proceeds to explain why the Notre Dame population does not need to be concerned about HIV because we do not fit into any of the high risk groups. 
I question the Christianity of Pimentel's theory. Christ lived among lepers and prostitutes, he did not question their life styles but recognized them as brothers and sisters created in God's image. When they suf­fered he was with them to heal and comfort his friends in their time of need. By separating himself from the realities of HIV Pimentel has turned his back on the suffering of far to many fellow humans. 
I was the logistics coordinator for the Name Project Committee which brought the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt to campus this past week­end. The reason I joined this committee was to fight the atti­tudes of people like Pimentel. Unfortunately, as HIV is spreading fastest among young heterosexual adults, this is not an issue that the people of Notre Dame can ignore. 
We need to become educated about HIV or it will effect our lives. No, we will not all become infected, but I am certain that most of us will know someone who has died from AIDS related infections. 
Africa has shown that the 
Bwiness Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman . Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barrh OTS Director ................................ Brt;ndan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
virus that causes AIDS does not discriminate. Heterosexuals who engage in risky behavior can become infected. Standing behind the Church's teachings against premarital sex and con­traception is denying that like on every other college. campus the students at Notre Dame are sexually active and therefore may be at risk of infection . 
I spent much of the weekend of the Quilt display in Stepan Center wondering how people can not have compassion for the people who have died, are dying, and will die of AIDS and for the people who love them. 
Too many conversations I had with quilt visitors ended up with tears and hugs as they told me about daughters, sons, brothers, and friends who have died. I found one woman stand­ing outside the front door cry­ing because she had come with 
~~~~~~~~~._ 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
a HIV positive friend and reality had set in for her as she watched her friend and her friend's daughter view the quilt but felt like she could not cry in front of them. 
Even though it was a hard weekend it was also a beautiful one. As one visitor said to me about the dlisplay, "There is an awful lot of love in this place." I wish more students, professors and administrators could see the Quilt, it is a moving memo­rial to AIDS victims and a won­derful testament to the strength and understanding that can come from love. Please Notre Dame do not remove yourself from this problem, embrace it and learn from it because it can effect you too. 
.SARAH FINGER 
Senior 
Lewis Hall 
--Harry S Truman, 1956 
Tuesday, March l, 1994 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ethical aspects of South Bend school teachers' strike 
Students should not 'serve as scabs' 
Dear Editor: can only give an unfair advan­a normal and effective learning 
When watching WNDU's cov­tage to the School board, and environment, or did many stu­erage of South Bend teacher's ultimately lengthen the strike. dents look for ways to hassle strike, I was saddened that the temporary teacher? South Bend's school board will I'm not arguing that teachers be using many Notre Dame stu­are necessarily going to lose Serving as a replacement will dents as scab replacements for their jobs because of scabs, but decrease the chance that these the local teachers. taking the place of a teacher school days will be made up at 
will pull money right out of the the end of the strike with quali­
Crossing the picket line as a pockets of people who have fied teachers at the helm. A sub substitute teacher will be no dedicated their lives to the ser­may think he is helping the stu­help to the local teachers, the vice of their community by po­dents, but he hindering the ed­bargaining process between the tentially lengthening the strike. ucational process by offering a teachers and the school board, Someone else might argue sub par product to the commu­and certainly not the children that substitute teachers only nity's youth. If no scabs would either. Furthermore, it can wants to help the children learn have showed up on Monday only hurt Notre Dame's image during the strike. If the sub morning, the schools wouldn't among the local community really want to help the local have opened, and the day which is often a bad one al­would have been made up at ready. "These are people the end of the strike. 
who are putting
One might argue that the op­With CSC and many other op­portunity to serve as a sub their entire livelihood on portunities for students to our (scab) is a chance for an off the line to make things a society, Notre Dame has a campus NO student to earn , reputation among many people
little better for their fami­
some extra money to put food as a place were students are on the table. Another might ar­lies." willing to help society out of the gue that it is a great chance to goodness of their hearts. ND earn some money for that trip children, he or she could students serving as scabs can to Florida next week. Both of donate time to the children in only make our population here · these cases pale in comparison some other capacity. It is naive look like a bunch of greedy to the plight of the striking to believe a school can function opportunists who are so insen­teacher. with any regularity without reg­sitive about the lives of working 
During the duration of the ular teachers who have regular people that we would pull strike, these people that will be lesson plans and real teaching money out of the pocket of a receiving no pay to put food on certificates. teacher for the sake of buying a the table for their families. couple more cases of beer down These are people that are How many people remember in Florida. putting their entire livelihood what it was like to have a sub on the line to make things a lit­back in high school? Was the Our image among many tle better for their families. prevailing opinion among the South Bend residents is already Serving as a substitute teacher students one of respect? Was it poor and ND students crossing 
JOSEPH OZERSKY 
THREE COLUMNS FOR THE PRICE OF ONE-BEAT THAT! 
Rather than generating yet another unreadable block of dense and sanctimonious text this week, I have decided to divide my column neatly into three sections, each addressing an important minor presence in my consciousness. None of the three is worthy of extended treatment, or complete omis­sion, so here they are, in order of importance. 
SECOND THOUGHTS ON 
BEAVIS AND BUTTHEAD 
Since the publication of my Beavis and Butthead column several weeks ago, I have been 
little lightning bolts coming has changed from one of hostil­watching their hour constantly, from the speaker. "Uh, go ity and fear to one of almostand a whole new list of obser­away. We're, like, closed or comfortable familiarity. I nowvations have come to me. For something." The Burger World have a fake name and address
example, I now realize how 
much I like the Fat Albert-style stuff is highly rarefied. Beavis to work with, and so I can at the deep fry alone ("Cook! relate to this person in
back-and-forth motions they 
Cook! Cook!") is worthy of Reservoir Dogs style, that is,make when dancing in front of transmission to space. without knowing her Christianthe TV. Try getting that from 
The suavity of Butthead's name.
computer animation! 
voice can't be overestimated. At first she threatened my carMore and more, I've come to 
His Chris Issak imitation will, and windows, adding in a fewappreciate the crudeness of the and you read it here first, ruin anti-Semitic wisecracks for
animation. Look how 
that crooner's career, so eerily good measure. (There is trashButthead's eyes are asymmetri­accurate it is. Or how about for you.) But now she and Ical, and the air of mystery that Butthead's demolishment of the have fallen into a comfortablegives him. Or the way his hair red AIDS ribbon? "Uh, those anonymous relationship. I like moves when he's talking. I've are those ribbons they give you the attention, and it amuses heralso done a 180 on the old peo­for being rich or something.'' to periodically mock me. Aple on Beavis and Butthead: I 
AIDS ribbons -finished!· gratifying relationship allformerly considered them a 
When I first starting watching around. But now the inevitable flaw in the show, but now I see Beavis and Butthead, I thought thought has struck me: whatmy error. 
they looked like old ladies, but does Trashetta look like? SheWhat could be more perfect now I am coming to the realiza­might be any woman I see dur­than their irritating voices at tion that they are more real to ing the course of the day -anthe Burger World drive-through me than most people, possibly eerie thought, but also an excit­window? "I want a cheese­more real than myself. ing one. So perverse the hu­burger, with no ketchup ... uhh­WHO IS TRASHETTA? man intellect is, that even the
hhhh ... and an orange soda, 
Readers of this column will tepid scorn of a stranger willwith no ice ... ugghhhhh ... and a 
remember me complaining of excite the imagination, and in­
small onion rings, with no 
anonymous calls. This has flame the appetites. 
salt. ..ughh.. .'' It's unendurable stopped, with one exception: a THE OFFICE OF UNIVERSITY-and just when we've had all mysterious undergraduate. My COMPUTING: MANAGEMENTwe can take comes "Shut up," relationship with this person VIRTUOSIButthead's voice, accented by picket lines won't help. As far as job opportunities go, it doesn't get much lower on the ladder than serving as a scab. Doing so will only make you look either greedy or naive. 

If anyone really wants to help South Bend's students, donate your time in some other area. Take a trip down to CSC and find out what else you can for South Bend, but please don't interfere with the bargaining 
I have here before me a copy of the OUC Consultant's Handbook, Fall 1993, and it must be said that this is 'an im­pressive document. Nearly 80 pages of single-spaced text enu­merate for the newly-hired $5­an-hour employee the full range of regulations, "interper­sonal skills" tips, "mission statements," graphs, tables, procedures, guidelines, rules, and inspirational mottoes the brain trust of the OUC has cooked up for his benefit. And he'd better stick to it! Employees have to sign a little contract vowing to respect this manual, and to die for it if nec­essary. 
Outsiders may be skeptical of my description, surmising from it as they may that I was hand­ed the mitten for not following cluster procedure. But I see now the folly of my way. 
Here is a section called "The Role of Cluster Consultants": well, it's not to sit on a stool and take your ID, as I at first thought . Understanding the role of the consultant (as op­posed to "Team Leaders" and process between the local teacher's union and the South Bend school board. Doing so will only hurt the teachers, the local students, and our image as an institution of genuine ser­vice. Do the right thing and please don't serve as a scab. It's the dirtiest word in the world of work. 
JEFF MONBERG Sophomore Cavanaugh Hall 
I, FARRINGTON 
"Cluster Managers," who have their own chapters) means "Becoming acquainted with new developments in comput­ing by reading computing mag­azines." It means knowing that "A consultant must wear his/her name tag and periodi­cally circulate through the clus­ter to locate users needing help." 
Most importantly, it means studying tips on language and body language, since "Of all the things you wear, your expres­sion is the most important." And remember to "Make the person feel better about him/herself. Tell them what they did right." The OUC man­ual even provides convenient Goofus and Gallant-style mod­els of cluster decorum: "Avoid phrases like: 'You'll have to...' Instead, inform the user [or stu­dent, to use lay terms] of what needs to be done by saying, 'Here's how we can handle that.'" Or, to take another OUC example, Goofus says, 'hang on a second, I'll be right back.' Gallant says, "I need to step away [or put you on hold] for a moment. Is that all right?" 
Then there are attitude tips. "You are not smarter than the user." "Thank them for talking with you." "Don't express your prejudices. You have every right to dislike any software package. However, you don't need to tell that to the user ask­ing for help." Whew, that's a relief! Late in my tenure at Hayes-Healy, I was beginning to feel guilty about my bigotry to­ward Quattro Pro. 
If only I had read the manual! 
I'd be making tens of dollars to­
day. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in the history depart­ment. 
ACCENT 
page 10 Tuesday, March 1, 1994 
Medical Minute 
To each their own ... floor 
By MATT CARBONE 
Accent Writer 
Kerri Carpenter has a prob­lem. 
The senior accounting major from Walsh Hall faces two midterms and two days of her CPA review class, in addition to a regular week's worth of homework. 
As if this weren't enough stress for one student to han­dle, Carpenter has no place to study-her favored 8th floor cubicle in the Hesburgh library has been taken. 
"There's been stuff there [in her cubicle] for the past week," said Carpenter. "I went there just to check if my spot was open, and it wasn't." 
Carpenter is one of many students who has a preferred studying spot in the library. But does it really matter where you study? To hear Carpenter and others tell it, where you study is a vital ele­ment of getting a good grade. 
"I do much better on tests when I study at that cubicle," insisted Carpenter. "It's got a beautiful view of the Dome." 
"When I'm getting tired of studying, I'll look up at the Dome, and really feel refreshed and inspired, and ready to go back to studying." 
Mike Benavidez agrees that the right Hesburgh study spot can make the difference be­tween being able to party his summer away in his native Colorado and summer school. 
"I cannot study anywhere except the twelfth floor," said Benavidez. "You see, I was born on the twelfth of April, so it's a little bit of superstition for me. Plus, it's really quiet on the upper floors." 
While it is definitely true that the upper floors are much more serene, some students eschew the double digits for the more social second floor. 
Doug Vincent is one of the these students. 
"I love to study on the sec­ond floor," said Vincent. "I couldn't study anywhere else. When I study, I like to have other people around. I need the distractions, because oth­erwise I'd go crazy." 
"During finals week, second floor is the best, because that's when the Alumni guys do their streaking," said Vincent. "That's when the sec­ond floor can get to be a little bit of a madhouse, but I enjoy the chaos." 
"I haven't missed (the streaking) once in my four years here," said Vincent. 
"Also, I get to see a lot of friends on the second floor ­it's a great place to socialize," said Vincent. 
Recognizing this latter char­acteristic, there are some who will not study on the second floor. 
"I refuse to study on the sec­ond floor," said senior Maura Cavanagh. "It gets way too rowdy down there -like it's a big party or something-and I can't get a thing done." 
"I studied there once in my freshman year," said Cavanagh. "Never again." 
Junior Nate Mick agrees, and has found an interesting locale in which to keep up his Dean List G.P.A.-in the bath­rooms of the 'Brare. 
"When I have some serious reading to do, I'll just go into a stall, lock it, and I won't come out until I'm done," said Mick. 
"What I do might sound strange, but it has really worked for me," said Mick. "I'm not going to argue with results. Hey, if you've got a problem with it, don't knock it until you've tried it." 
Urn ... O.K., Nate, we won't. We'll just chalk it up to the re­sourcefulness of the Notre Dame student, who will do whatever it takes to succeed. 
Study D~ys. • 
By LISA MONACO 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Where do students go when they don't want to fight for a seat at the Hesburgh Library which has a full house during mid-terms week? Some head for LaFortune Student Center. La Fortune is a favorite of many who prefer a more relaxed atmosphere than the library. They can do some 
..._ serious studying whl.Ie having a bite to eat or they can take a study break by watching an episode of Seinfeld on one of the big screen TVs. Allison Martin, a sophomore sociology major says she goes to LaFortune "to work on group projects which involve a great deal of discussion." "LaFortune has a much more relaxed atmosphere. The library is more intense," Martin said. Fans of LaFortune can take full advantage of the 24 hour access and the extended hours of the Huddle which is now open till 3 a.m .. One study place which has 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
One student leaves his study space unoccupied while taking a study 
break. 

been relatively uninhabited has been Riley Hall. The unoccupied classrooms pro­vide an escape from the com­motion of LaFortune and the library. 
Katie O'Connor, a photogra­phy major, prefers the unoc­cupied classrooms over the library because of the big work spaces and good light­choose what I listen to,"ing. 
McGuire said. "Sometimes I take breaks by making phone "No one bothers you and calls to my friends from 
there are no distractions. " 
home." she said. O'Connor feels that Everyone has their favorite the classrooms are perfect 
study spots where they are places to take a break from most productive. For one rea­
the dark room and work on son or another, students love 
non-photography assignments. "their" special place. 
Students find 
•interesting places to study 
At times freshman may feel overwhelmed by their work­load, but not Erin Mellifont from Regina Hall. A nursing major and member of the track team, Mellifont spends much of her time on the sec­ond floor of the Cushwa­Leighton library. Mellifont says, "There are too many dis­tractions in the study lounges. I go to Cushwa to get serious studying done." 
Many students enjoy the comforts of home and avoid venturing out into the cold if at all possible when they are looking for a spot to study. Kim McGuire often studies in her room when her room­mates are not around. 
"I often study to music, and with my ster~o available I can 
Tuesday, March 1, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Fencers battle through the elements on their way toward perfect season 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
Neither rain, nor sleet, nor snow would keep the Notre Dame fencing team from get­ting to their meet at Ohio State last Saturday. 
Unfortunately, that snow part of the equation forced four other teams to withdraw from the meet leaving the Irish in Columbus to fence the host Buckeyes. 
Northwestern, Tri-State, Cleveland State, and Case Western Reserve were all scheduled to compete, but the snowstorm that hit the midwest last weekend kept all four teams from making the trip. 
"Just getting here was a major accomplishment," laughed men's head coach Mike DeCicco about the weather that turned a four hour bus trip into an eight hour journey. 
However, it turned out to be worth all the trouble as both the men and women's teams completed undefeated seasons with 21-0 and 23-0 records, respectively. The men complet­ed their 16th undefeated sea­son in 58 years, while the women helped to put their names in the record book with their fourth undefeated season in 23 years. 
"The real accomplishment was meeting a fine team like Ohio State and beating them," added DeCicco. 
The men helped to ensure their perfect season with a 16­11 victory over Ohio State. 
Epeeist captain Greg Wozniak along with foilists Stan Brunner and Conor Power and freshman sabreman all posted key victo­ries to break a 7-7 tie enroute to the win. 
"This was a good win for a few reasons," noted DeCicco. "Our foil team proved conclusively that they are the team to beat in the midwest." 
"Our sabre team also came up with a clutch win against a fine team," he said. "Our whole team won this match together, just like they have done all sea­son long." 
As for the women, the foil team downed the Buckeyes 9-7, even though the match was really not that close. The Irish clinched the match at 9-1 after reeling off nine wins in their first ten bouts. 
"It was amazing," said wom­en's head coach Yves Auriol. "Just like that, the score was 9­
1. It's clear we are not a one­women team, as some might say," he added. 
However, one women that had a truly amazing season was sophomore sensation Maria Panyi who went 3-0 on the weekend to finish the season with an individual mark of 41­
1. That now puts her into sec­ond place(.976) behind former Irish great, Heidi Piper, for the best single season winning per­centage(. 978). 
Sophomore Claudette De Bruin also enjoyed an unblemished weekend, going 2-0 against the Buckeye's twin towers, Rita Borbley and Carin Wolf. 
"Our team is made up of at least six good fencers that have shown they are the number one team in the Midwest," said Auriol. 
Women's epee also completed a successful season trouncing Ohio State 9-0. 
"We have worked hard for two years to build our program for this season," commented Au­riol. "Marit Fischer, Maura Gallagher, Ashley Shannon, Amy Sromek, and Danielle Gi­rardi have really started us off on the right foot for the future." 
The Irish now return to prac­tice this week in order to get ready for the NCAA Midwest Regional qualifiers to be held March 5-6 at Notre Dame. 
Track 
continued from page 16 
Husted and sophomore Amy Siegal finished fourth and fifth in the women's fmal with times of 5:01.75 and 5:07.44, respectively to cap off the great performances at the invitational against tough competition including some professsional runners. 
"Our women's team is not as deep as the men's team, but they keep on improving each year, just as in this meet," said Piane. 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
his serve to spice up the variety and keep his opponents off guard," commented Coach Bayliss, "as a result, he has increased his arsenal, some­what like a major league pitcher who has six or seven pitches to throw at the batter." 
The Irish, unfortunately, were not as consistent as their 'iron man' whose consistency and hard-work continue to move him up the rankings. 
Michigan mischief 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. An arrest warrant was issued Monday for a Michigan football player accused of firing shots at plainclothes police officers he thought were breaking into his car. The football player told police he was protecting $7,000 in car stereo equip­ment when he fired the shots at about 3:35 a.m. EST Sunday after his car alarm went off. Police did not identify the play­er because he has not been charged. The incident started after po­lice officers arrested a 23­year-old man for larceny from an auto and fleeing and elud­ing police. Police said the man allegedly broke into at least two cars in the athlete's apart­ment complex before driving off. Following the suspect's ar­rest, officers Joe Dye and Brian Jatczak and detective Tom Pressley -all three in plain clothes, but accompanied by other uniformed officers ­were searching vehicles when the suspects' car alarm went off. His alarm was set off on his pager but was not audible 
to police, according to police reports. 
Dye was writing a report while sitting in his car when he first heard yelling coming from an apartment. He and Jatczak then heard four to five gunshots coming from the sec­ond-floor balcony. 
The officers took cover along with Pressley. They yelled, "Police! Police!" toward the man. Police did not return the fire, and no one was hurt. 
A police report said the play­er's girlfriend had called 911 to report the car being broken into. Sgt. Harry Jinkerson took the call and retraced it back to the player. He talked him into surrendering to police. 
The player was arrested. As­sistant prosecutor Larry Burgess ordered that he be re­leased from custody, but a felonious assault warrant was authorized Monday. 
The gun is registered with the Ann Arbor Police De­partment. The player told po­lice he had just had stereo equipment installed. He is ex­pected to be arraigned Tues­day. 
Football coach Gary Moeller said he was "totally shocked" by the incident. 
Swimming 
continued from page 16 
free with a time of 1:42.03, and also placed second in the 100 free. 
Like their female counter­parts, the underclassmen also contributed to the men's effort. Freshman Rich Murphy fin­ished third in the 400 IM, and Will McCarthy, also a fresh­man, earned the fourth-place spot in the 1650 freestyle race. 
"This week was a good indica­tor for next week," said senior captain Kevin Flanagan. "It shows just how fast we're going to swim at the next meet, which we've been gearing up for since September." 
Beginning Thursday at Cleveland State University, both teams will compete in the East­ern Intercollegiate Champi­onships. This meet marks the end of the Irish swimming sea­son, and both teams hope to perform well and swim their best times. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Work in the Wild! Tour guide, dude SPRING BREAK TIME SHARE Giovanni, ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail Orlando, Florida Happy 1Oth month anniversary! Oh Geez ...
NOTICES WANTED 
maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter $700 -sleeps 8 I love U very much. The Top Ten Reasons to Party
I I 
+ volunteer and government posi-bars, pools, lake Love, Jeannette at 628 Grace ... USED TEXTBOOKS ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY-lions available at national parks. 5 minutes from Disney 10. Utile Napoleon will be there Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard MENT-fisheries. Many earn Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over call X234B or X450B fishing for compliments. '233-2342 /10-6M-Sat 9-3 Sun $2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000-25,000 openings! Apply now for CONGRATULATIONS 9. Brass monkey, that funky 
$6000+/mo. on fishing vessels. best positions. For more info call: 1-monkey.
FOR SALE
Many employers provide benefits. 206-545-4804 MICHELE LICHTENBERGER B. The clean, refreshing taste of WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 No exp. necessary! For more info ext. N55B4 stale beer. 
call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A55B4 2 tix to PEARL JAM 2:11.21 in the 2001 7. Southern people tend to have STILL HAVE md. trip plane ticket to Female roomate (or roomates if you concert Mar 22 -Cleveland very low tolerances. MINNEAPOLIS for SPRING don't mind sharing a room) will take best offer. Good luck at Easterns! 6. The infamous 'Awaddin' will be BREAK-<lirty cheap. needed for a Castle Point apart-Mike X 4116 there. Jason x1593 RIDE needed for 2 to St. Louis for ment. First semester only! SUMMER JOBS -ALL 5. You'll see the bottom of the 
.......................................tr ••trtrflrflrtrflrflrtrfrflrflrflr
Spring Break. Call Christian If interested, call Val at LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES-bottle and the ceiling. @1226 271 -7817 Want to get to Colorado for Spring TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 4. Turkey ·for me, and a turkey for Break? I have a one way ticket from ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS you ...ILOST & FOUND I Need Ride to NYC,North NJ O'Hare to Denver Stapleton on Sat NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-3. A Karen scavenger hunt every 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum-for Spr. Break, Easter March 5, 1994 at 6:44p.m. Will 786-8373 night. **LOST BIKE KEY** mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860· $$,Driver Offered #4100 take best offer. 2. Everyone is welcome to spend #on key is k8413 0219 ************************************** I am driving to Nashville for Spring the night! please call Calligrapher for wedding invitations Break and have room for a passen-1. For cryin' out loud, it's fun y'alll X4022 HELP WANTED Loading trucks, -pay negotiable. Maclnttosh Classic with Image ger. Share $. 634-4524 
weekdays 4-7PM, 2-5 days a week Call4-4507 writer for sale. $600 OBO. ps. dirky' dirky' dirky ... depending on your schedule. 273-3920. SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! Tommy, don't get yourself into a FOUND: Men's watch on Sat. Requires some heavy lifting. Get going east on 1-80? Could you Free Food Night on Wednesday, pickleI night. It has a dark brown leather your exercise &earn a paycheck at drop me off at penn. exit 24? March 2 at 7:30 at Senior Bar!!
TICKETS
band and a purple face. It was the same time. 287-2316 ask for (penn state) can leave anytime after Free Pizza! Free Pizza! Need ride from Cleveland to NO found on the path between the Mark 1 pm wed. $ Rachel X4B32 SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! after break. Call Jill x2732 Basilica and Howard. If you lost it, FOR SALE -1 Round trip ticket to 
call Maureen at 4-2922. Need a ride to DCNA area for Los Angeles for Spring Break. If you 'Wanna be sedated" call BADIN 4 QUAD, THE WILDEST
FOR RENT 
spring break. Will pay gas and Call Chris at x4·1 069. X2569 and share with us your SECTION ON CAMPUS! 
tolls. Call Dom at x1460 RamonesCD. Coat left in Career &Placement 1, 2 &3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR Hey Not-so-Random, about 1 1/2 weeks ago. Call AA CRUISE &TRAVEL EMPLOY· RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1BDRM: Schlage, Thanks for the flowers, you
PERSONAL
631-5200, ask for Katie. MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO. Hi Sweetheart. made my day. For next time, TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPER-though, there are 2 "N"'s in my (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, TIES 272-6306 Schlage, name, not one. 
LOST: oval-rimmed glasses in a ASIAI) HURRY BUSY SPRING ADOPTION: Loving, financially Hi Sweetheart. DiaNNe blue case. Small reward -call John AND SUMMER SEASONS BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES-secure couple longs for a newborn 
@ 4-1722. APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 to join our family. Please call Nancy Gatta get to Grace... WHOA! TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! and Jerry 1-B00-272-581 0. NEED A JOB NEXT YEARIIII Hope I didn't lose my toga!! CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES Student Activities is now hiring for 
3 keys on keyring lost between SECURITY SYSTEM I need a tutor for freeman's all areas. Applications available at Pale green? Sparkles? ... N.Dining Hall, Lafortune &Library ALL APPLIANCES organic cham class. I will pay well. Student Activities or Info Desk. We love the LOVE COUCHII If found please call x4100 NEEDED: 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS call bridget at x3622 Deadline is Friday, March 4. 
SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 232 2595 Hey, Katie! You gonna help salt the Found: last summer class ring NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, Rob-Don't be nervous for your BIG walkways today?? along AuSable River in Grayling Poughkeepsie pre!. 3 BR, 2 Bath, Frplace, Full base-day on Friday...l'll be saying 2 WALSH WOMEN need Spring Michigan. Call Mark 517-799-4792. Will help$. ment, 2 car garage, Walk to ND, prayers lor youl Break ride to &from ORLANDO Hello? Mike? ... Can I get a last 
Please call Brian or Jason x1130 $900/mo. Evenings: 616-471-7172 Love, Melanie area Lori x42597 Maria x42627 name please? 
r----· 
~ ~ ~ ~-----~-~·~­
. . 
Tuesday, March 1, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Belles battle to the end despite outcollles 
By KIMBERLY BERO 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's basketball team wrapped up its season Saturday afternoon with a 90­58 loss against second-ranked Franklin College. 
The Belles fmished the season with a 6-15 record. 
"Although we didn't have a winning season, the girls gave it their best efforts," said Saint Mary's head coach Marvin Wood. "We never gave up." 
The Belles came out aggres­sively early on in the first half of the game, but the momen­tum quickly shifted over to Franklin's side in the second half. 
"Franklin was a strong oppo­nent, but we didn't get blown­out until the late stages of the game," said Wood. 
Franklin's second-half domi­nance was due mainly to a sti­fling defense, strong rebound­ing skills, and a definite size advantage over the Belles. 
"We were short on size and we just did not have the bench depth," said Wood. 
Saint Mary's sophomore Jen­nie Taubenheim, who currently ranks twelfth in the nation in Division III scoring leaders and is the Saint Mary's season scor­ing record holder, finished the game with 29 points and 12 re­bounds. 
Taubenheim wrapped up her successes this season by setting three more school records in steals, single game points, and rebounding. 
"She is a truly remarkable and talented player," said Wood. 
Also, senior Anne Mulcahy finished the season as the fourth-ranked Division III three-point shooter in the na­tion. 
"This was my most enjoyable season while at Saint Mary's," added Mulcahy. "Even though we were not that successful, we got along well and learned a lot from each other." 
A WEEKEND OF COMMUNITY An Experience for Seniors Who have been involved in Service or Social Action Friday Evening, March 25 to Sunday Noonl March 27 (With optional outing to Gin Blossom Concert) Registration forms available from: Campus Ministry, Hesburgh Library And Center for Social Concerns Application and $10 fee due by March 17 For further information contact: Robert Benedetto 273-5839 Tina Patane 282-2879 Ed Miehle 634-3332 Tom McDermott C.S.C. 631-7800 Kathy Royer 631-7862  
March marks the time to celebrate WtJmenS History Month-a time when we recognize women's contributions to and relationships with society throughout history. The Hammes Notre Dame bookstore is proud to offer a selection of inspiring titles which encompass a rich diversity oftopics: family, history, feminism, religion, sexuality, self esteem and more. Women's History Month  
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" Open Monday through Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m.  


----~---~-~~ --~~---~ ----~ 
---~--~
~-------------~--~~­
Tuesday, March 1, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Saint Mary's track team returns with four new records 
What color is your parachute? 
March is Career Month 
Tis the season for job hunting. Visit the Notre Dame Bookstore-your campus resource for a wide selection of career planning books, 
'
' resume guides, job search and interview guides and more. 
25% off
·0
-.... 
all career guides 
By ANNE HERMANN 
Sporrs Writer 
From Lillehammer, Norway to Huntington, Indiana, competi­tors struck gold, as the Saint Mary's track team broke four school records, Saturday, at the Huntington lnviatational. 
There were approximately ten teams at the meet including Manchester, Kalamazoo Col­lege, Goshen College, Spring Arbor, Tri-State, DePauw and Huntington. They competed on a four lane track which caused the teams to choose four indi­viduals to compete. 
"We were very happy with the results. Although this was not a scoring meet, it was very good to see many people im­prove," said Saint Mary's track coach Larry Szczechowski. 
School records were set by four individuals. Paula Kivinen high jumped with a mark of 5'2". 
Erin Mellifont finished the BOOm run at 2.28.25. Michelle Wenner broke the 1600 mile run record at 5.36.73. 
Last, but not least, four mem­bers of the team, Carrie Ratke, Erin Mellifont, Melissa Roberts, and Michelle Winner completed the 4X2 Relay with the time of 3.49.97. 
The Belles took advantage of the chance to compete against many other Division III teams. 
"We wish we would have more opportunities to compete against more teams at our level. The team enjoyed com­peting against Division III schools," said team captain and senior Katie Linehan. 
The team had an opportunity to emphasize their personal goals. Before each meet the team fills out a personal goal sheet and completes another following the meet. They dis­cuss the improvements needed for the next meet. 
"Because the competition we face usually consists of Division I and II schools, it is important to have personal goals," said Unehan. 
Of the individuals that com­peted, at least eight personal records were broken and four seasons best. Many of these record-breakers were compet­ing in first-time events. 
"The improvement was good from the week before," said Szczechowski. 
The Belles still hope to im­prove the in the longer races in preparation for outdoor meets. 
"Everyone is looking forward to the outdoor season. After spring break there will be a real shift in gears. The dis­tance runners always practice outside, but the rest of the team will join them after break," said Linehan. 
The Belles are working to­wards improvement week to week. 
"We have worked very hard in practice, and it has paid off," said Szczechowski. "I saw a killer instinct come out at this meet, one that you normally see in basketball or football, but rarely see in track." 
The Belles demonstrated the result of competetiveness. 
"Running is one thing, compet­ing is another. In track you have to compete at a different level, " said Szczechowski. 
The team continues to prac­tice in preparation for their last indoor meet, Friday, March 3, at North Central College. 
"It is very good to see this many people improve. We're happy with the results, and we had a good time. Now we know we're on the right track," said Szczechowski. 
SPORTS BRIEFS Recspons will be offering c;asti!"9 and angllfl9 
course ~fter spring bre'ak. Equipment will be provided, but if you have equipment you would like_}~. bring~_ please·· do r niore-info:r~all}tecw 
••• ••6·-· 3.. ·1· •'6-·100 ••· . ,. •-·•iMiH•.•·
p at ___ w _ _ _ -·-• -•1'-u•,;•-'­
OBSERVE THE WARNING SIGNS. 
ff ~ hiMl crest pai11astilJ IVtll rrilJtes or roore, see adoctor 
ftAmerican HeartV Association 
The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" 
Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
-

page 14 The Observer • IRISH BASEBALL HISTORY Tuesday, March 1, 1994 
Jake Kline's impact on Irish baseball spanned a lifetime 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Writer 
The following is the second article in a five part series chronicling the history of base­ball at Notre Dame: 
"Some people
NOTB.EDAME 
I) 
come into our lives and leave lasting footprints 
on us. Some come through
1891-1994 TRADmON 
and we just meet 
them and say hello. but others come through and leave footprints on our heart that will stay with us for the rest of our lives. That was Jake Kline.·-Chuck Lennon, Alumni Association director and Irish outfielder 1958-1961 
In 1934, Clarence "Jake" Kline took over as the 15th head coach of the Notre Dame baseball team and for the next 42 years he made lasting im­pressions on the Notre Dame community as well as the na­tional collegiate baseball com­munity. 
Kline did not start his career in South Bend as a coach, as he first arrived at Notre Dame to play, not coach baseball. Monogramming in 1915-1917, Kline had a collegiate career with numerous highlights in­chiding a record-tying 1916 game against Michigan. 
In that game, Kline hit three home runs to tie Clarence Sheehan's 1905 mark and to propel the Irish to a 14-6 vic­tory. A fourth drive landed foul by inches or he would have notched another roundtripper. 
After graduation, he turned down a big league offer to serve in World War I, but joined the minor leagues when the war ended. In 1931, Kline returned to Notre Dame as coach of the freshmen baseball team and a professor of mathematics. 
Notre Dame Athletic director Richard Rosenthal who played for Kline in 1952 and 1953 re­members the coach fondly. 
"He was a coach who was al­ways very interested in players careers. He exhibited a keen concern for that. He was a mas­ter of wonderful quips. He was very colorful and marvelously excitable. I certainly enjoyed my spell with him and learned an awful lot from him," said Rosenthal. 
It isn't known how his stu­
dents did in the classroom, but 
and eight bids to the NCAA 
tournament indicate that his 
baseball lessons sunk in. 
In the middle of his coaching career, Kline's teams were fre-

MontegoBay ftom$449 Negrll lrom$479 Cancun ,,_$469 
quent attendees at the NCAA tournament which at the time included only 32 teams. From 1949-64, seven of his teams participated in post-season play including a trip to the College World Series in 1957 in which his team tied for third. 
One reason for Notre Dame's success is the caliber of player here at the time. Kline helped some of his players move into the professional ranks, but he never got a chance to coach the player who would have become his most famous student. In the 1950's, Carl Yastrzemski at­tended Notre Dame as a stu­dent and would have started playing in the spring of his sophomore year if he hadn't signed a contract with the Boston Red Sox. 
Many of the his players let­tered in more than one sport and he heartily approved, mak­ing two sport stars practically a 



photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Jake Kline led the Irish baseball team as coach for 42 years. In honor of his dedication, the field in Eck Stadium will bear him name. 
norm in his years. Rosenthal played basketball and baseball, two of Notre Dame's Heisman Trophy winners, Angelo Bertelli and Johnny Lujack, played foot­ball and baseball, and Kevin Hardy, in 1965, was the last three-sport athlete. 
Notre Dame's opponents were mainly Big Ten teams and other area teams. 
Road games were all reached by bus and the players remem­ber the trips with mixed emo­tions. 
"There was a certain kind of unique camaraderie that grew out of those trips. Pitchers got to sleep in the back seat of the bus and other players got to lay on the floor and a couple of people who weren't too big even got up on the racks above. I think every pillow in the dor­mitory that you could get your hands on became a borrowed piece of equipment necessary to complete those bus trips," said Rosenthal. 
In the dugout, Kline was able to control his temper. but not his left arm. Kline did get tossed out of a few games, but not too often. As for his left arm, he would develop a nasty twitch in his left shoulder when things were not going well. 
"Jake was always the epitome of the Notre Dame person and the epitome of the Notre Dame coach and the greatest repre­sentative that this University could have," said Lennon who served as an assistant coach under Kline from 1961-1968. 
Recognized around the coun­try, Kline was known as the Dean of College Baseball and he was voted into the College Baseball Hall of Fame in 1968. 
After the 1975 season, the 81­year-old Kline retired, ending his 42-year career as baseball coach of the Irish and leaving a large set of footprints to fill. 
Tomorrow: The Gallo/Kelly Years 
May 1994 Graduates Personalized Graduation Announcements 

'University of'll(ptre 'Dame 
Notre Dame Note Cards $7.00 per box of I 0 !includes envelopes) 
Order NOW by mail to: Balfour/ Ed O'Neil 2346 So. Lynhurst Dr. Suite 500 Indianapolis, IN 46241 
1\lon. -Fri., 8 -5 317/241-5000 with questions ~00/236-4639 orders only fax 317/241-0430 

Indianapolis, Indiana 

Personalized Open House Cards $7.00 per pack of 20 [with date/time/place] $6.00 per pack of 20
'University of'J{ptre 'Dame 
[without date/tiimc/place] 
CJ!ianl(~ou 
Notre Dame Thank You's $7.00 per box of 10 (includes cnn~lopes) 

Order in person: Tues., Wed., March 15, 16 and Wed., Thurs., March 23, 24 
9:00 am -4:30 pm 
LaFortune Student Center Doole) Room, 1st floor 
2080 So. Raceway Rd. 
(no envelopes; insert invitation in grad announcement) 
Watch your mail for order forms & instructions. Additional forms aYailahle at the Registrar's Office 
-

Tuesday, March 1, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I l\I<.E I=OLLOWING 11\E t-l~W S .1 
!-lEW'S d<.G"l\ILAT\OI'-iS K.~OW l WOO.'\ 
S\1 STILL R>R A.N'i st.R\<YJS \)\')(IJS'i\~ 
cr (01<\P\..£.~ MID BORI~G \'S'SIJES . 
BILL WAITERSON 


It's a known fact that the sheep that give us steel wool have no. natural enemies. 
OF INTEREST 
CROSSWORD 
/WE WOULD LIKE TO 
V"ISH YOU A SAFE AND FUN SPRING BREAK! 
-THE STAFF AT 
D~ 
... YcLUB:.;
<P ~ 
~JvlO 
'·· 

DINING HALL 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
TI-lE~ (01-\l".ENTF>--TC>R'S iOIJ ~\ElL 
WO"--OER WHY ~E nw::. t':> "~'-~ 
P\lBLIC \'5 Cil-.1\C~L ll'l.-DEPn\ Slt>R'{, 
J>..BOJI fQL\T\CS. BE<J,IJ'5t. ITS GOT 
DAVE KELLEIT 


ACROSS 27 A clef 63 Prefix with China
32 Unsettle?
1 Crocus bulb 64An acid35 Scruff5 "Son of the 65AiertSun" 38 "Aeneid" locale 
66 Ending with 9 Set-to 39 Musical or song gang or mob 
14 Pastiche by 11-Down 
67 Guided a raft 15 Score in 42 Nobelist Wiesel 
68 Kane's 
pinochle 
43 Rows before P Rosebud 16 "A house is not ' 
44 Gorky's "The 69 Libel, e.g. -Depths" 17 Restaurant 
45 Had a hunch
request DOWN 47 Carol
18 Vessel for Jill 1 Pause sign 49 Daffy Duck talk 19 "Anticipation" 2 Relating to singer 52 Bedtime 
C1aH3402 
annoyances20 Song by 3 Dyeing 
11-Down 56 Song by 
instruction 23Vinegary 11-Down 
4Some 24 Scottish hillside 61 Mercutio's handlebars friend
25 Westernmost 5Collision Aleutian 62 Cigar's end 
6 Circa 7 Mountaineer 8 Psychiatrist 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Alfred 9 Tennessee 
Senator Jim 1 0 I.0.u. 30 Knowledge 11 Late, g real 31 Spectator 
composer 
32 Farm mothers 12 Mine: Fr. 
33 Base 13 "State of Grace" 
34 "The doctorstar 
n 
36 Barley beard 
Walter 37 Exploited
221nformal goodbye worker 26 Word on a coin 40itmay be golden animal behavior 41 Actress 29 Make coffee Verdugo 
.­

46 Friend of Harvey the rabbit 
48 Belgian port 
so Mergansers' kin 
51 Perfumery bit 
53 Showed 
allegiance, in a 
way 54 Downy bird 55 Stable sound 56 Envelop 57 Our genus 58 Biographer 
Ludwig 59 Hawaiian honker eo To be, to Henri 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, March 1, 1994 
Irish women swim to MCC title, men earn second 
By KELLY CORNELIS After this weekend's perfor­she captured the 50 free in 400 medley relay, Lichtern­almost every event, " com­Sports Wrirer mance, the future of women's 24.98. Walsh then combined berger also earned a second mented Welsh. swimming at Notre Dame looks with fellow sophomores Anna and a third in the 200 and 100 . 
With many top swimmers very bright, with many fresh­Cooper and Mary Wendell and back, respectively. The men, who had sixteen resting for the upcoming cham­men and sophomores putting freshman Susan Buchino to win "All in all it was a great swimmers resting for this pionship meet at Cleveland forth great efforts. the 200 freestyle relay. Foley meet," stated Lichtenberger. weekend, were forced to settle State, the Notre Dame women finished first in the 100 back "Shaving down was a really for second place behind the Ex­still managed to win its sev­Freshman Alyssa Peterson led and second in both the 100 fly exciting thing, and almost plorers. who set many records enth consecutive Midwestern the Irish with a record-setting and the 200 IM. everyone had their best times. en route to victory. Collegiate Conference swim­time of 4:37.07 in the 400 IM. We really inspired each other." Senior diver Sean Hyer domi­ming and diving title, while the She also placed second in the Freshmen Susan Buchino and Irish coach Tim Welsh was nated both boards, amassing men placed a close second to 200 breaststroke and third in Michelle Lichtenberger had extremely proud of his team's 504.95 points in the one-meter LaSalle. the 500 free, while contributing great meets as well. Buchino effort, especially considering event, and 572 points in the 
to Notre Dame's second-place accumulated four second-place the lineup that he used. three-meter diving. The women won only four finishes in both relays. finishes to go along with her "This was clearly the fastest Captain Dave Nathe had a races, but placed in the top five Sophomore Kelly Walsh was win in the 200 freestyle relay. MCC meet ever, and our young record-setting swim in the 200 in nearly every other event. another individual winner, as A member of the second-place swimmers were right there in 
see SWIMMING I page 11 
Men's tennis 
up and down 
By PHIL LANGER Sports Writer 
It was a weekend filled with mixed emotions for the Notre Dame men's ten­nis team as they split four matches on their way to 11th place at the USTAliT A Men's National Indoor Intercollegiate Championship in Kentucky. 
The Irish opened play last Wednesday with a 4-3 win over No. 19 New Mexico, but fell to No. 4 Texas on Thursday 2-5, a team they were a moments breath from beating just two weeks ago. 
The key to the victory over New Mexico came when senior and team captain Andy Zurcher won the deciding match by breaking Tad Burkowitz's lethal serve at 5-4 in the third set. 
"Andy deserves a lot of credit," com­mented Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss, "to pull off a win in that situa­tion, with the team's round of 16 hopes in the balance." 
In the highly anticipated rematch with No. 4 Texas, however, the outcome seemed to come down to revenge. 
"It was an oddity," stated Coach Bayliss, "that the people who won for both teams in our first meeting lost and those won were victorious lost the second time around." 
Both senior Todd Wilson and freshman phenom Ryan Simme, the No. 32 player
meters with a time of 8:28.70. With freshman Randy Kinder who placed 
in the country, were victorious. Yet, it
that time, Smedley qualified for the second in the 200 meters with a time of 
More Irish 
was Simme who captured the spotlight
prestigious IC4A's to be held next week­21.22, while also helping the 4X400 
·when he blew No. 23 Ian Williams off
end at Princeton University. That now relay team to a time of 3:12.89 and a 
the court 7-5, 6-4. 
brings the Irish total to 27 runners that second place finish. In the 55 meter
qualifiers for 
The see-saw battle continued when Senior Todd Herman once again placed more Tom Mescall placed fourth and will be competing next weekend. hurdles, Senior Chris Lilly and sopho­Notre Dame suprisingly upset No. 11 Al­
abama 4-3 on Friday before losing to of 7'1". Following Herman was Todd spectively, while senior Clint Johnson first in the men's high jump with a jump fifth with times of 7. 76 and 7. 77, re­
IC4Xs 
eighth-ranked Mississippi on Saturday 2­By JOE VILLINSKI Hendrick, Tom Mescall, and Todd took second in the 55 meters in a blis­
5 to complete tournament play. The Sports W rirer Johnson who placed second, third, and tering 6.38. 
Irish now stand at 9-3. 
fourth respectively. The Irish runners In an invitational billed as an all-star also placed consecutively in the 5000 On the woman's side, sophomore Erica 
The only Irish player who walked away track meet, the Alex Wilson Invitational, meters as senior Mike McWilliams came Peterson highlighted the woman's com­
undefeated in Kentucky was Todd
held Saturday at Loftus, saw tremen­in sixth with a time of 14:34.30. Junior petition with a first place finish in the 
Wilson who, consequently, was pro­
dous individual efforts from both the J.R. Meloro, and seniors John Cowan 400 meters with a time of 55.85. Junior claimed the teams "Iron Man" of theIrish track team and the other twenty and Nate Knuth finished 7th, 8th, and Maureen Kelly had a personal best in weekend by Coach Bayliss. Wilson
teams that were invited. 9th following McWilliams. the 5000 meters with a time of "There were terrific performances by "It was a great example of team run­17:33.31, while taking third in the 
swept all four of his singles matches by both the men and women's teams," said ning this weekend," said Meloro who, event. Peterson and junior Monica Cox 
beating Coulter Wright (New Mexico) 7­Irish head coach Joe Piane. along with Cowan and Knuth qualified finished one,two in the 55 meters hur­
5, 6-4, Tre Philips (Texas) 6-7, 6-4, 6-4, Some of those performances included a for the IC4A's. dle consolation final, with junior Lisa 
Kip Layman (Alabama) 6-3, 6-3, and fourth-place finish by junior Nate Ruder "I am real hppy about qualifying, con­Junek placing second in the final with a 
Johan Hede (Mississippi) 6-4, 6-4. 
in the mile with a time of 4:07.21 and a sidering that is one of the main focal time of 7.93. Finally, junior Emily "Todd has made some adjustments on 
first-place finish by sophomore Mike points of our season," added Meloro. Smedley who captured the men's 3000 Rounding out the men's lineup, was 
see TRACK/ page 11 
see TENNIS I page 11 


Inside SPORTS 
Men's Volleyball Saint Mary's Track Wolverine Woes 
The Irish men's 


More legal trouble 
The Belles raced to four 
Volleyball team cruised 
plagues Michigan 
new school records over 
to an easy 3-set victory 
teams. New accusation is
the weekend at the 
at Toledo. 
shooting at police.
Huntington Invitational. 
see page 12 
see page 11
see page 13 
-

