


Thursday, March 3, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 102 
Tl-lr INDEPI~NDENT NFWSPAPI:I\ Sli\VING NUTIU DAME AND ~AINT MARY'S 
Jamaican project to offer more than just a vacation 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH 
News Editor  
For many students the word "Jamaica" brings  
to mind a tropical island paradise -an exotic  
Spring Break vacation ground where the sun  
always shines and the beach is a welcome dis­ 
traction.  
But by August of next year, six Notre Dame  
graduates may feel a bit differently about  
Jamaica. By August, these graduates will find  
themselves no longer students but teachers, and  
may no longer see Jamaica merely as a resort  
country, but as their home.  
Under the leadership of Paul Chang, a 197 5  
graduate of Notre Dame, the Jamaican chapter  
of the Notre Dame Alumni Club is in the process  
of developing a post-graduate volunteering pro­ 
gram in Kingston, Jamaica, with a focus on  
teaching.  
Chang, who recently visited the University to  
recruit students and work out administrative  
details, said he sees education as a means of  
combating poverty and underdevelopment by  
providing previously unavailable opportunities  
to those who need them most.  
"Through most service experiences you can  
touch maybe 50 people," said Chang, "but  
through teaching you might touch more like 200  
and see real, leng term effects."  
The new program will be similar in structure  
to the Jesuit International Volunteers (JIV), and  
participants will have interaction with and guid­ 
ance from JIV volunteers who are already in  
Kingston.  
The need for Notre Dame volunteers in  
Jamaica is great, according to Chang.  
Although tourism attracts a fair number of  
wealthy visitors to Jamaica, it is still considered  
Photo courtesy of Paul Chang a third-world country. One will find the very  
rich and the very poor in Jamaica, but as Chang  These and other children of West Kingston, Jamaica, will be benefiting from a new post-graduate teaching program sponsored by  
see JAMAICA I page 4  the Notre Dame Club of Jamaica, educating students during a year long program.  


Hatch, Hyder urge ethical research practices 
By DAVE TILER sity, one judged by both its un­If that animosity is to be wards careerism," a condition News Writer dergraduate and graduate pro­avoided, Hatch said is the re­where academics are so far grams," said Hatch. "In order search should be looked at as a removed from the student body 
As Notre Dame evolves into a to do that," he added, "We must profession, rather than an oc­that they cease being teachers truly national university, it be strong in our research." cupation·. "We hold our profes­and become self-absorbed. must not be 
Hatch and Hyder spoke at the sionals, doctors, and lawyers, to Researchers, he said have an negligent in student government sponsored a higher level of expertise, a obligation to not only them­its pursuit of "Campus Conversation" entitled higher degree of excellence, selves, but their community as an ethical "Understanding Notre Dame and a commitment to the public well. research Mission in Graduate Studies good. Researchers fall into that Hyder took the discussion a paradigm, and Research," at Siegfried Hall category." step further by analyzing the said Nathan last evening. Hatch drew on his own expe­research process in terms of Hatch, dean According to Hatch, Notre rience in the history depart­Notre Dame's Catholic mission. of the Dame must meet this challenge ment at Harvard for an illustra­He is surprised that current Graduate without losing sight of its united tion. debate on research ethics fo­School, and Nathan Hatch character. "There is almost an "While I was there, I had an cuses almost exclusively on bio­Anthony animosity between the gradu­intellectual feast," he com­medicine. "The field of ethics Hyder, associate vice president ate and undergraduate worlds. mented. "But the personal re­extends much further, to all for research. We must overcome that, and lations were just poison." He areas of not only research but 
"Notre Dame has decided it avoid the pitfalls of research called on Notre Dame to fight wants to be a national univer-academia." what he called "a tendency to-see RESEARCH I page 4 

Kmetz, Neidlinger tickets win run-offs 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Clay/Harron
News Writer 
35.09% The Kmetz/Klausner ticket for sophomore class officers and the Neidlinger/Reh ticket for otT-campus co-presidents hand­ily defeated their opponents in yesterday's runoff election. The sophomore class office ticket of John Kmetz of Fisher, Brian Klausner of Flanner, 
Neidlinger/Reh
Andrea Smith of Siegfried, and 
64.91%
Deborah Hellmuth of 
Off-Campus Sophomore Class
Pasquerilla East earned nearly 56 percent of the electorate 


Co-Presidents Runoff Office Runoff
with 564 votes. Their oppo­nents Bob Ryan of Morrissey, 
received 445 votes, or just over and Matt Reh captured nearly 
Janine Van Lancker of 
44 percent of the electorate. 65 percent of the electorate
Siegfried, Katie Flynn of Farley, 
In the runoff for off-campus with 209 votes. Chad Clay and
and Pat Abell of Morrissey 
co-presidents, Nikole Neidlinger Brian Harron received 113 
Malits: Cross offers faith experience ByAMYCODRON News Writer  
People can experience the Cross through the acceptance of their failures, the endurance of their power­lessness and the faith that God needs this consent from us for him to save us with his love, according to Saint Mary's alumna and professor of Religious Studies Sr. Elena Malits. Her lecture, "The Cross: Letting God be God," was the second in the Saint Mary's College Sesquicentennial Lenten Lecture Series, "A Celebration of the Cross." "The Cross is the experi­ence not only of enduring powerlessness, but of recog­nizing one cannot escape it and should stop trying. The Cross is the experience of learning how to accept every­thing we would not accept if we could avoid it," Malits explained. Through her own personal experiences, Malits has learned to consent when fail­ure exists in her life, without knowing why that failure happens or its ultimate out­come. "Accepting is a mode of participating in a reality to  
see CROSS I page 4  


votes, approximately 35 per­cent of the electorate. 
The new officers will take of­fice April 1. 


·-­
-

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, March 3, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN · · NATION AT AGLANCE 




An unexpected 
fareW"ell 
Senior year. Oh what 
-------­
expectations we all had 
for this year. 
This was the year we went to the 'Backer every Thursday night no matter what test we had the next day. This was the year we traveled everywhere within 100 .,~:-r>5\ miles of South Bend Kenyajohnson just for the hell of it. Accent Editor 
It was the year to take advantage of all we could, knowing that our time together would soon come to a splen­did yet, sorrowful end. This was the year to say good-bye to four great years and hello to 'the real world.' 
I knew the time to say good-bye would 
come, I just never thought it would be this 
early. 
For some of you it may seem strange, almost 
ghost-like, to see me doing an inside column, 
considering I am no longer at Notre Dame. 
But those of you who know me or read my 
columns, know I couldn't leave without having 
some fmal words. 
Under unfortunate medical circumstances I 
had to take a leave from Notre Dame last 
week. In all of two days, I packed everything 
accumulated over the last four years, said as 
many good-byes as possible, and was on a 
plane back to California. And I thought pass­
ing Chern 117 was a challenge! 
I sit here now in a hospital wondering how it 
all happened. Why couldn't it wait? What did 
I do to deserve, I ask God time and time again. 
But, I know there are no answers. I maintain 
faith that God is the master of our lives and 
that his plans are always divinely right and 
good. Still, it's not easy. 
As my grandmother used to say, "Be careful 
what you wish for, it may come true." I 
always passed it off as another crazy phrase 
she was mumbling as she rocked in her chair 
(Bless your heart Grandmere). But now I see 
what that wonderful woman -whom I had 
deemed insane -meant. 
"I can't wait till I graduate," we say. "Four 
years of this place is enough," we grumble. 
"I'm ready for the real world," we shout. 
I would give anything to be at Notre Dame 
right now. I would do anything I could to be 
with the friends I have made over the past 
four years -the people who have become my 
family away from family. I would do anything 
to be in Pasquerilla East right now, parietals 
and all -the place that had become my home 
away from home. 
Oh dear, what I would give to be in North 
right now, eating burned grilled cheese sand­
wiches and sipping watered-down Coke. 
Believe it or not, I'd do anything to be in 
O'Shag this very moment, listening to the 
dryest professor possible. 
Folks shut up and stop your gripping and 
then just be still and soak in all the glory of 
the place where you dwell. Of course, there's 
always going to be something to complain 
about, but why waste your energy on some­
thing so negative. The only thing you'll hinder 
is your own experience. Enjoy what you have. 
Live life as fully as you can while you still have 
the chance. 
I don' mean to preach, but what else can I 
do? I've been forced to say good-bye before I 
was ready to. And now I never want to say 
good-bye to Notre Dame at all. Of course I 
will have to -we all will. But until I do, 
when I get back there, everyone beware, 
because I'm living it up and going to love 
every minute of it. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Corrine Doran Thomas Zipprich John Lucas Production Edward lmbus Christopher Mullins Sports Chetyl Moser 
Jonathan Jensen Accent Viewpoint Lynn Bauwens Brian Seiler Graphics Mark Krejci Christopher Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Highway sniper targets South Carolina interstate 
GREENVILLE, S.C.........----n-...-------.------.::~----, Morris said. "This is one guy with a BB 

gun." 
A pellet gun sniper targeting cars The Greenville County sheriff's along Interstate 85 struck again department has increased patrols, and Wednesday, in spite of deputies used unmarked cars, bloodhounds and patrolling on the ground and in the air. a helicopter, but the sniper keeps slip-
In 10 days. someone has shot at least ping away. 26 cars, most on a mile-long stretch of Authorities have said there may be highway bordered by pine trees, a river, copycat snipers now. Most vehicles a sewage treatment plant and a televi-have been hit around the Mauldin sion factory. Road exit on Greenville's south side, 
Deputies in camouflage suits are hid-L__,[L____=----=L_ where the latest vehicle was shot at
__J 

ing in the trees, and spotters with binoc-early Wednesday. But two others were ulars are on the high ground along the NORTH CAROLINA hit Tuesday about five miles away. highway, a major business route "It's driving us crazy," said sheriffs between Charlotte, N.C., and Atlanta Lt. Sam Simmons. "It's become impos­that the AAA Carolinas motor club says •Greenville sible to tell which reports are real and is used by 64,000 vehicles daily. which ones are just rocks hitting wind-
The only injury has been to a teen-age OColumbia 

shields." girl hit in one eye by glass when a shot SOUTH went through a van window, but drivers 
CAROLINA 

On Monday, a driver whose truck are getting jumpy. JoAnn Surrett, a 
was hit chased a man he said was reservations clerk at a nearby motel, 
about 20 years old. The man escaped
•
Charleston
said she's started taking a different exit through a swamp behind the sewage
Atlantic 

plant and bloodhounds lost his trail,off the highway to get to work. 
GEORGIA 
Ocean
''I'm not as afraid as if it were a real 

Simmons said. gun, but I still don't want my car to get 
100milas 

The AAA told motorists to be careful hit," she said. 
but was holding off on a national alert. 
iOOkm.

The situation is different from 1-295 at L---~...:....·'·--.: 

"We're telling them not to panic and Jacksonville, Fla., where a series of AP not to avoid the area.... We're just sniper attacks in 1992 led the national AAA to tell saying, 'Be alert."' Morris said. motorists to avoid the area, said Lee Morris, a spokesman Simmons said the gunman will face aggravated assault for AAA Carolinas. charges if he's caught. The crime carries a 10-year sen­
That series of attacks involved weapons that could kill, tence. 
Clinton education plan under fire Incomes lower, but people spending more 
WASHINGTON WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration's plan to concentrate feder­The California earthquake contributed to the worst al education dollars in the poorest school districts ran decline in Americans' incomes in a year in January, into early opposition Wednesday from senators fearing while the brutal winter of 1994 helped send new home the losers would be low-income rural children. The sales plummeting more than they have in nearly 14 arguments in the Senate Labor and Human Resources years. But the Commerce Department also reported Committee were similar to those raised earlier when a Wednesday that consumer spending rose for the lOth House panel greatly watered down 
straight month at a rate that matched December's the administration proposal during its increase. The Commerce Department said consumer review of the Elementary and spending, which represents two-thirds of the nation's Secondary Education Act. Ninety­economic activity, rose 0.5 percent, led by a 0.9 percent three percent of the nation's school jump for spending on services. "I think after you brush districts and two-thirds of the schools all the disasters aside, the economy is still generating a participate in the so-called Title I pro­fair amount of income," said Sandra Shaber, an econo­gram for disadvantaged students. mist with the WEFA Group outside of Philadelphia. She There is not enough money to go noted that the most important component of the income around, and hundreds of high-poverty category -wages and salaries -actually rose a healthy schools receive none of the Title I money. President 1 percent in January to $3.19 trillion. Most analysts Clinton's 1995 budget calls for $10.5 billion for elemen­expect economic growth to slow this year after a sizzling tary and secondary school programs, up $1 billion from final three months of 1993. The government reported 1994. Funding for Chapter I would increase by $664 mil­Tuesday that the economy grew at a torrid 7.5 percent lion, to $7 billion. annual rate in last year's final quarter. 
Trade sanctions against Japan considered US Post Office to raise stamp prices 
WASHINGTON WASHINGTON 
With no progress in its trade showdown with Japan, The post office is getting ready to ask Americans to the Clinton administration will soon issue an executive ante up a few more cents to clear up its billion-dollar order allowing the United States to impose sanctions on losses. A decision to seek a rate increase could come as countries deemed unfair traders, congressional and early as Tuesday, with stamp prices likely to rise to administration sources said today. President Clinton told between 32 and 35 cents -3 to 6 cents more than the reporters today, however, that "we haven't made a final current rate. Rates also will increase for other classes of decision about how exactly to proceed on that." The mail -including magazines and catalogs, parcels and administration has been increasing pressure on Japan those items that the post office doesn't like to call junk since Feb. 11, when a summit between Clinton and mail. How much those prices will go up remains to be Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa ended in seen. Whatever new rates are proposed, they won't take failure. Japan refused to accept American demands in effect until at least early 1995 because of the complex so-called "framework" negotiations to set import goals legal processes required to increase postage prices. for opening Japan's markets. 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, March 3. 
INDIANA Weather 
Thursday, March 3 Accu·Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 10 1994 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via .AssodattKJ Pte~ 

Atlanta 50 36 Denver 67 32 New York 37 27 Baltimore 40 28 Houston 75 47 Philadelphia 38 28 Boston 34 26 Los Angeles 78 54 Phoenix 85 59 Chicago 45 32 Miami 70 46 St. Louis 54 37 Colombus 37 27 Minneapolis 47 32 San Francisco 68 50 Dallas 71 45 New Orleans 65 45 Seattle 55 43 The Observer/Allan Smith 


Pledging Sensibility 
Dillon Hall Freshman Charles Freel signs the Bacchus Spring Break Pledge not to drink and drive during Spring Break, The Pledge is being sponsored by SADD and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. 




Alumni offer advice to writers 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Notre Dame graduates Michael Collins and Mary Kathleen Hawley advised promising writers not to get discouraged and to foster a re­lationship with a specific pro­fessor at a reading yesterday in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The two authors also met with students at noon to discuss their recently pub­lished works of poetry and short stories. 
Former professors had great impacts on the lives of both authors, according to Professor of English Valerie Sayers. 
"It was terrific to have two former students return," she said. 
Associate Professor of English William O'Rourke helped Collins publish his book of short stories "The Man Who Dreamt of Lobsters," which he worked on while at Notre Dame, and Hawley took poetry classes from Professor of English Sonia Gernes, Sayers said. 
"The graduate program for creative writing was estab­lished in 1991," Sayers said. "Michael Collins was one of the first graduate students in the 
"We want it to be a small, se­lective program," Sayers said. "There's always a long waiting list." 
Beginning to advanced poetry and fiction classes are offered at the undergraduate level, Sayers said. 
Collins' book received praise from The New York Public Library, Esquire Magazine, and the New York Times book review, she said. 
"The Chicago Reader has called Hawley's volume of poet­ry "Double Tongues" forceful and direct, but subtle," Sayers said. 
page 3 

Upward -Bound celebrates TRIO day with activities 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Writer 
The Upward Bound program helped celebrate the seventh annual National TRIO Day last Saturday with a series of work­shops and activities. 

The TRIO program is a fed­erally funded, three-armed pro­ject that helps economically disadvantaged students im­prove their opportunities for a post-high school education. The Notre Dame branch is com­posed of the triumvirate of Upward Bound, The Educational Talent Search and the Ronald McNair Post­Baccalaureate Program. 
University President Father Edward Malloy and a represen­tative from U.S. Rep. Tim Roemer's office turned out to honor the success of TRIO at the opening ceremony at the Hesburgh Library auditorium. However, Saturday's events were designed not only to com­memorate the project's achievements, but to lay groundwork for the future as sixty South Bend high school students spent the day learning about multiculturalism and self esteem. 
Two workshops held at the Pasquerilla Center helped stu­dents deal with world around them. The first, titled "Get In Where You Fit In," dealt with prejudice in society. "The stu­dents got in touch with their cultural uniqueness, and learned how their attitudes to­wards one another are affected by race and ethnicity," said Dorine Blake-Smith director of Notre Dame's chapter of Upward Bound. "It was an ex­ercise in valuing diversity." 
Students were given signs to wear on their back with the name of a famous person or a group of people in society. Each treated others as if he or she was talking to the person they saw on name tag of the person they were chatting with, but students did not know their own identity. 
The results were interesting, said Blake-Smith. "The kids discovered how much a repu­tation can affect your actions. Talking to Louis Farrakhan and Nancy Kerrigan are very different experiences. We tried to get kids to reach beyond their attitudes and judge on their character instead of their perceptions." 
The second workshop was called "Ego Tripping." During this session students learned to how to cope with their strengths and weaknesses, and deal with the internal and ex­ternal pressures they meet with everyday. "They learned what makes them tick, and how to harness it," commented Blake­Smith. "They learned about the confidence and poise needed to make it in today's world." 
Despite the bad weather and the effects of the South Bend teachers strike, Blake-Smith thought the day went well. "When I woke up and saw it snowing, I thought 'Uh-oh,' but everything went according pretty much according to plan. It was a great experience for everyone involved. 
The day's events were just an example of the scope of TRIO. Since 1966 more than 15,000 youths have been assisted by the local TRIO programs. Nationally, 640,000 students currently take part in alm·ost 1,7 50 projects at more than 1,000 colleges and universities. At Notre Dame, services range from SAT tutoring to a six week "Academic Boot Camp," where students live and learn on the Notre Dame campus during the summer while taking a full high school course load. 
The help that TRIO provides yields dividends. "Most of our kids will go on to some kind of post-secondary education," noted Blake-Smith. "That's the most satisfying part of this job." 


Students granted day off; strike eludes settlement 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND 
The schools superintendent declared Thursday a day off for students so teachers, adminis­trators and the union could talk an end to a week-long strike. 
"I am asking the public to keep their children home from school ... to give our entire pro­fessional staff, administrators, those teachers who have been coming to school the past week and those who haven't been, the opportunity to come togeth­er at each school to talk with 

&¥~~~·,~.;:·
' 1 In Negnl
11 
• p @ tiQtal Sam S.,rg 

JAMAICA 
MontegoBay  ltom$449  
Negrll  lrom$479  
Canc:un  ltom$469  

"D.,ai'\Vl'M frol'lllndlanap..U. er Chk•t•lll 
•oe.r ~PVIIII' cleollaatlono ln.lv4w hMI'IIII City A DDJIM• IMtll, f ..r\dCI +(aD far mllfWinf.......,tlonlll 
one another face to face and make a plan for rebuilding our professional staff," Super­intendent Virginia Calvin said. 
Anna Pappas, president of the National Education Association­South Bend, did not know whether the striking teachers would attend negotiations Thursday. 
"I thought (Calvin) had a plan. It didn't include every­thing it needed to include," Pappas said. "We have to go one minute at a time." 
About half of the South Bend School Corp.'s 1,400 teachers walked off the job last Thursday after rejecting the school board's offer of a 1 per­cent pay raise. 
An Venlut'll: Pel Dllat:lln IPG·131: 12:30, 2:45, 5:1517:45, 10:00 
Blink Cbtdl (PG : 12:15, 2:30, 5:00,
7:00,9:15 Gr1mpy Old Men (PG·13): 1:15,4:15,
6:45 9'00 Mv F111H1r llle Hero (PG): 12:45, 3:00,
5:00, 7:30, 10:00 On Deldly Ground (R): 2:00, 4:30,
7:15,9:45 Rllllly Blln(PG·13): 2:15, 4:45, 7:00,
9:30 
Blue Chlps(PG·13I:Daily:4:30, 7:00, 9:30 M11. Doublllre(PG·13):Daily:4:15, 7:15 •10:00 My Girl II(PG):Daily:5:00, 7:30, 9:45 




page4 

Thursday, March 3, 1994 
said Hyder. He does not believe that
Jamaica Research 
Notre Dame researchers should continued from page I be held to a higher standard of 
continued from page I 

excellence than their counter­life," he asserted. parts at other institutions. explained, "(Jamaica) tends not Hyder does, however, feel that
Ethical dilemmas in research to have a middle class." fields were largely unheard of Notre Dame should be at the 
Kingston, the capital of forefront of a larger movement
until the 1980s. When a prob­
Jamaica, houses one million towards more ethical research. 
lem arose, the researcher or 
individuals -about half the laboratory dealt with the prob­"We have some of the finest population of the island. The lem internally. In that respect, ethicists in the world on our city is racked with urban ghet­faculty. Perhaps they can help
the field was largely self-regu­
tos, high birth rates, and un­lating. give guidance that this area so employment. badly needs," he suggested. 
The rapid pace of research 
Though education may be a Both Hyder and Hatch believe 
since that time has created a 
solution to many of the city's multitude of ethical questions that research is an ongoing problems, quality teachers are that no one has clear answers search for truth. That is why, not always easy to fmd. to. "We can't deal with such Hyder contends, it is important 
"Teaching has not been at­questions legalistically, because to hold researchers to high 
tracting the best and brightest," we are dealing in areas that standards of integrity in such said Chang. "It is not the high­writers like Jules Verne never broad areas as data fraudu­est paid employment. It is not even dreamed of," Hyder said. lence and plagarism. 
glamorous. More and more we " Ethics implies a knowledge of "We must keep the process a are losing potential teachers to right and wrong. We are trying truthful process,' he said, "Or industry." risk the search for truth mean­
to answer ethical questions
Employing students from about the unknown." ingless." Notre Dame as teachers would For Notre Dame to be true to Hyder continued by saying be beneficial to both the city Catholicism, it must proceed that the pressure of receiving and the volunteers, according judiciously in the self-regulat­federal grants, competing for to Chang. ing tradition. prestige, and being pushed for 
"It's a win-win situation all time by superiors has encour­
"We must bend over back­
around," he said. aged more laxity in the aca­
wards to be open to all the pos­
Catholics are a minority in demic world. "Removing those 
sibilities. Society may be slip­
Jamaica, yet the New England ping around us, but academia sorts of pressures will help us Province of the Jesuits have may be one of the last bastions remember that we are seeking 
adopted the island as a mission of integrity to fall back on," truth, and not prestige." country. They have set up a 
teer to receive a small stipend contingent of the recently or­number of parish churches and of approximately $60 American ganized Alliance for Catholic Malits explained that the will­schools, including St. George's dollars a month. The program Education (ACE) program. Cross ingness of Jesus to die on thehigh school, the main school at will also provide health cover­Currently, the ACE program Cross expressed his confidence
which Notre Dame volunteers would be teaching. age. is set up to allow graduates to continued from page 1 that God was faithful. 
According to Chang, the six Right now the biggest obsta­volunteer in American schools "Jesus had faith that God
which we can consent but not
cle for the program to over­while earning a teaching de­would raise him to life. ButNotre Dame volunteers would control," she explained. 
come is funding. gree. Although the possible what resurrection in the con­live in community together in For Malits the Cross symbol­
With only seven active mem­connection is not yet official, crete looked and felt like, Ian area nearby the school, but izes the experience of undergo­
bers the Jamaica alumni club is Chang said he would like to see doubt Jesus knew any morenot in the ghettos. They would ing cross-purposes, divine and 
have access to a "spiritual relatively small and its budget it in effect for 1995 volunteers. than you or I do," she noted. 
human, seemingly at odds with 
is not extensive. Similar to the Other future possibilities for In accepting God's ways on
director" whose role would each other. The Cross as a

JIV program, the Notre Dame the program include setting up the Cross, the humanity ofdepend upon the members of reality drives us to accept what 
program will ask participants summer service projects in Jesus served as the instrumentthe community. 
threatens to destroy us, but it
to raise $2,000 where possible Jamaica, selling Jamaican for revealing God's power. 
Five of the six placements of­may be our very salvation. 

to "offset some of the start-up goods on the Notre Dame cam­"The Cross provides the 'evi­fered are teaching positions. 
Jesus knew how it felt to fail,
and health insurance costs." pus, and ultimately setting up dence' for a believer that GodThese volunteers would obtain 
and he learned what it costs
As it becomes more estab­similar post-graduate programs will not and cannot save us
work permits and would be 

human beings to accept failure, 
lished, Chang said he hopes the in Latin American countries. without our..conse.nt.".she. ex­paid a state salary. The other said Malits. 
program will be self-sustaining. Prospective volunteers for the plained.
placement is with the Jesuit 

"Jesus went through the dark 
Chang's vision for the pro­Jamaica program turned in "The Cross is our one hope,Youth Ministry in the severely suffering of accepting himself
gram extends far beyond addi­their applications to the Center spes unica, that the power ofunderprivileged area of West as a failure. On the Cross he
tional funding, however. He for Social Concerns earlier this God's love will elicit a positiveKingston. 
experienced human power­
has been discussing with Notre week. They will be notified of consent from us," she con­While the later placement is lessness with all its implica­
Dame professor Father Timothy acceptance by April and begin cluded.
not a paid position, the other tions," Malits said. 

Scully the possibility of making orientation in Kingston in the Father Edward Malloy will be 
volunteers will pool their 

"Jesus was willing to let God
the program an international beginning of August. presenting the next lecture insalaries allowing each volun­be God and accept his own hu­the series, "The Cross: Our Onlymanity as limited. He con­Hope," on Wednesday, Marchsented to what God was doing," 
16, at 12:15 in Stapleton



Clinton plan to aid homeless kids 
she added. 
Lounge. 


By SONYA ROSS tending classes regularly in Ginny Terzano. Associared Press 1992, the report said. Those If the president embraces the 
who did often drifted from draft, it would represent the 
WASHINGTON school to school, without ade­first time the government has 
The Clinton administration is quate supplies or a quiet place said homelessness is a major considering a plan that would to study. problem that demands large­create special school and recre­scale federal action. 
ation programs for homeless children, according to a draft report. 
The report, obtained by The Associated Press, estimates as many as 1.5 million children were homeless at some point in the late 1980s. It puts the total 
U.S. homeless population at be­tween 4.95 million and 9.52 million during that time. 
As many as one-third of homeless children were not at-
The report, "Home! The Federal Plan to Break the Cycle of Homelessness," was ordered by President Clinton last spring. The latest 93-page version, pre­pared Tuesday by an intera­gency task force on homeless­ness, is under review by the Office of Management and Budget. 
Clinton had not seen the draft as of Wednesday, said deputy White House press secretary 



CHEERS 

KRISTA, 

Happy 21st 

Birthday ... 

Love, Mom&Dad 



t 

LENTEN FACULTY RETREAT 
For Single and Married NotreDame and St. Mary's Faculty and Spouses 
Friday, March 18 Saturda~ t1arch 19 8:00pm 8:00pm 
A time of quiet and personal reflection. the retreat will include oppuntunity for shared reflection on the biblical texts for the Sundays of Lent. 
Offered by: Nicholas A yo, C.S.C. and John Gerber, C.S.C. Place: Mary's Solitude on the St. Mary's College Campus Cost: $35.00 per person, three Saturday meals included. 
RESERVATIONS ARE REQUESTED BY MARCH 14, BUT WILL BE ACCEPTED UNTIL MARCH 16. 
Contact Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., FISCher Graduate Residences 631-8606 or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607 (DMPUS 

~NISTRY 

----~---·-~ 
-----~-----------·-__...____,..,__._,_......__~--. 
Thursday, March 3, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 

The Observer/Bntll MoraskV 

Side pocket 
The Gorch Game room, with its pool table and video games, is one of the many places students go to take a break from studying amid mid-term exams. The Game Room is open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
By JULIA RUBIN Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Flush with its biggest diplo­matic feat in years, Russia is wading deeper and more confi­dently into the Bosnian conflict every day. 
Whether Moscow's efforts to exert influence on the Serbs will really help resolve the war remains to be seen. 
But for President Boris Yeltsin, the diplomatic offensive has appeased ultranationalists at home and helped Russia reassert itself as a major player in the Balkans and beyond. 
Russia's recent actions in Bosnia "are not just a great diplomatic success, but also show the world that Russia has an independent policy and chooses its own friends inde­pendently," Vladimir Shumeiko, speaker of par­liament's upper house, told reporters Wednesday. 
Russia did get a push: from NATO on the one hand, and ultranationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky on the other. 
Throughout most of the war in the former Yugoslavia, Russia has acted no more forcefully than the rest of Europe, shuttling diplomats be­tween the United Nations and the Balkans. 
Russia sometimes spoke out in defense of its traditional allies, the Serbs, but rarely strongly enough to risk alienat­ing the world community. 
Then, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization threatened last month to bomb the Serbs if they did not pull back from Sarajevo. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Illustrations Manager 
Applicants for the position should have strong managerial skills as well as illustrations or cartooning experience. Please submit a 1 page personal statement, a 4 x 6 inch editorial cartoon and one original illustration to John Lucas by 3 p.m. Thursday, March 3. For additional information, contact John at 631-4541. 
Inside Russia, NATO's threat inflamed Zhirinovsky and oth­ers who accuse Yeltsin of sell­ing out Russia's interests to the West. Zhirinovsky traveled to Serbia and came back bristling with anger on behalf of the Serbs, who he said had been abandoned by their fellow Orthodox Slavs in Russia. 
Caught between the West and Russian nationalism, Yeltsin's team leapt into action. In its first initiative, Moscow per­suaded the Serbs to withdraw heavy weapons from around Sarajevo and sent Russian peacekeepers into the area. 
Russian lawmakers then approved boosting the number of their peacekeepers in the former Yugoslavia by 300, to 1,500, a day after Yeltsin an­nounced a bolder foreign poli­cy. 
On Monday, when NATO planes shot down four Serb air­craft and tensions rose, Moscow invited Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic for talks. 
Serbs intensify offensive as Yugoslavia peace fades 
By SRECKO IATAL 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

Bosnian Serbs launched three rocket-propelled grenades Wednesday at government troop positions in Sarajevo, vio­lating the U.N. cease-fire and raising fears that the city's re­cent calm will prove to be short-lived. 
Outside the capital, Serbs pounded two Muslim enclaves and continued to block relief convoys -despite their en­couraging promise a day earli­er to open an airport in the region to relief flights. 
U.N. officials said Serbs fired the three grenades at Bosnian positions around the Jewish cemetery in downtown Sarajevo. A U.N. spokesman, Lt. Col. Bill Aikman, said Serb artillery also fired Tuesday on the Muslim town of Breza, just north of Sarajevo. 
While in both cases the Serbs clearly had breached the 3­week-old cease-fire, the attacks apparently were not serious enough to trigger a NATO air strike under the alliance's Feb. 
9 ultimatum. 
Grenade-launchers were not listed among the heavy weapons that had to be re­moved from a 13-mile radius around Sarajevo, and Tuesday's attack came from outside the zone. 
U.N. officials quoted Serbs as saying they fired the grenades because Muslim-led govern­ment forces were violating the cease-fire themselves by rein­forcing their trenches. 
The United Nations had reported government forces were doing so last week. 
Russian troops are in the Jewish Cemetery on the Serb side, French soldiers are on the Bosnian side, and "tensions are certainly increased in that area," Aikman said. 
Problems with aid convoys also continued. Serb, Muslim and Croat leaders all have signed accords pledging free passage for aid convoys, but they have been ignored repeat­edly, especially by Serb com­manders. 
Gov't offers new reforms to end Mexican revolt 
By jOHN RICE 
Associated Press 
CASAS, Mexico 

The government promised sweeping political reforms and economic aid to Mexico's im­poverished Indians on Wednesday, hoping to end a New Year's 
rebellion by -····.
Mayan peas­ants. 
The agree-
· ment in prin­ciple on 32 of the 34 rebel demands fol-~~;,. lows 10 days llllk. of negotia-Carlos Salinas tions. The de Gortari r e b e 1 Zapatista National Liberation Army says it now must gain the approval of community councils before it will sign a peace treaty. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
Rt!;)' "' fSt~th 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 

(219)277.. 1291
51408 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 Phone Answered 24 hrs. 
MATT, 
Happy 21st Birthday 
At least we liked your loft. 
Much Love, 
Mom, Dad, Greg, and Adam 
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari haUed the tentative agreement and said rebel con­ditions "have been answered with a real desire to listen to and meet the demands for jus­tice, welfare and dignity for the Indigenous peoples." 
"Let's hope that all of society backs the issues agreed upon ... We will seek to assure that all the details are taken care to ar­rive at a final signing of the peace accords." 
A Zapatista statement praised Camacho and Roman Catholic Bishop Samuel Ruiz, mediator at the talks, and said the dia­logue had traveled a "good path." 
The proposals, read at a news conference in the cathe­dral where the talks took place, likely will reverberate through­out Mexico. 
They include a promise of re­forms to make this year's presi­dential election more democra­tic than past elections and a pledge to consider similar aid and legal reforms for Indians elsewhere. 
Among key government promises are more self-gov­ernment for Indian communi­ties, a new criminal code and judges that respect Indian rights, mandatory education for all Mexican children about Indian cultures, and anti-dis" crimination laws. 


----w--·--~---------~~-~­
.....,..._.._.--___.-­

~--------~~~--------------~------------­
page6 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 3, 1994 
Massacre fuels tensions; Arabs, Jewish settlers clash 
By KARIN lAUB Associated Press 
HEBRON 
When Palestinian Radwan 
Sider walked to his car parked 
outside a Jewish enclave, he 
found the windows smashed 
and a note scribbled in 
Hebrew: "God's Revenge 
Organization." 
Sider, 35, and his neighbors blamed Jewish settlers living in the heart of Hebron. They said the attack on the car, coming just a day after the Hebron mosque massacre, was just the latest in a series of settler provocations against Palestinians in the city. 
The 144 Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip have long been a highly sensitive issue for both sides. 

The mosque massacre and the ensuing violence there have highlighted the problems in­herent in keeping armed Jewish settlers in small en­claves within Palestinian towns. 
Confrontations between set­tlers and Palestinians have been frequent since the December 1987 outbreak of the Palestinian uprising. The Israeli human rights group Betselem said 63 Palestinians have been shot dead by Israeli civilians since 1987. 
The settlements have become a critical factor in the peace equation since Jewish settler Baruch Goldsteir! massacred at least 39 Muslims in a Hebron mosque last Friday. 
Relations between Hebron's 

450 settlers and 80,000 
Palestinians have come to a 
boiling point. 
The settlers here are mostly 

religious Jews who believe they 
are carrying out a divine mis­
sion by reclaiming all of the 
biblical land of Israel. including 
the West Bank and Gaza. Most 
vow they will never leave. 
Hebron, burial site of the bib­lical patriarch Abraham, was the site of one of the first Jewish settlements established after Israel captured the West Bank in the 1967 Mideast war. 
The Palestine Liberation Organization said Wednesday that one of their conditions for resuming stalled negotiations with Israel on Palestinian au­tonomy is that the three Jewish enclaves in Hebron are dis­mantled. 
But he is under growing pres­sure from doves in his Cabinet to make some concessions on the settlements to prevent fur­ther violence -a move opposed by many right-wing Israelis. 
On Wednesday, the Beit Hadassah Jewish enclave in downtown Hebron was ringed by army guards. 
Vegetable store owner Emad Khatib, who lives near Beit Hadassah, said settlers last Thursday stopped a Palestinian motorist at gunpoint outside his shop. 
Hatian refugees refused; Aristide attacks U.S. policy 
By MICHAEL NORTON Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE The U.S. Coast Guard re­turned 19 boat people 
Wednesday, the latest in a surge of Haitians flee­ing economic hardship and repression in their mili­tary-domi­n a t e d 


Ca r i b b e a n Jean-Bertrand homeland. Aristide 
In  Geneva,  
deposed  Haitian  President  
Jean-Bertrand  Aristide  

attacked the U.S. policy on boat people. But he said he was en­couraged by a Sunday meeting in Paris with Raymond Flynn, 
U.S. ambassador to the Vatican. He did not elaborate on those talks. 
The cutter Vigilant picked up 12 men and seven women 
Monday from a 40-foot sailing 
Happy 19th Birthday, 

i • 
Heather Steinmiller 

Love, Twigs 
vessel 15 miles northeast of Cap-Haitien in northern Haiti, a 
U.S. Embassy official said. The crew was turned over to Cap­Haitian port authorities. 
Haitian officials in Port-au­Prince, the capital, prevented journalists from speaking with Haitians repatriated Tuesday after the Coast Guard picked them up the day before on a rickety craft near the Bahamas. Haitian authorities arrested 9 of the 141 Haitians on the boat. 
An increasing number of Haitians have been taking to the seas since a U.N.-brokered plan to restore Aristide to power Oct. 30 failed. 
The Coast Guard has picked up more than 700 boat people since then, 424 of them this year. The Coast Guard has intercepted more than 42,000 Haitians at sea since a 1991 army coup overthrew Aristide. 
"There is deep despair, and we may expect more depar­tures," said Marlene Dorfeuille, who heads the Haitian Refugee Service, a private foundation. 

Israeli soldiers fire on Palestinians 
By SAID GHAZALI 
Associated Press 
·JERICHO 
Israeli soldiers killed two 

Palestinian youths Wednesday 
as fury over the Hebron 
mosque massacre spread to 
Jericho, where the PLO plans to 
set up its headquarters under a 
peace plan with Israel. 
As part of an effort to curb 

the bloodletting, security forces 
disarmed seven extremist 
Jewish settlers in the occupied 
territories and banned them 
from Palestinian areas. 
It was a radical move for the Israelis, though unlikely to pla­cate Palestinians demanding the removal of Jewish settle­ments from the territories and international protection. 
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres reiterated the govern­ment's refusal to budget on the settlement issue. 
But Peres, an advocate of flexibility, left the door open to further gestures. The govern­ment "is not blind" to the need to make concessions to the PLO to resume talks, he told Jewish media representatives in Jerusalem on Wednesday night. 
Militant Palestinians, mean­while, called for revenge attacks for the mosque mas­~acre. And the government put Its embassies and citizens abroad on alert. Rabin's terror­ism adviser, Yigal Pressler, urged Israelis with gun permits to carry their weapons. 
In Jericho, a normally peace­ful town, trouble flared when 400 Palestinians, some waving black flags, protested Friday's massacre of Palestinian wor­shipers by a Jewish settler in Hebron. 
Protesters stoned army vehi­cles and a police station, and troops on rooftops opened fire at youths, who were using slingshots. 
One teen-ager was killed in the shooting and about 20 peo­

Source: Peace Now Settlement Watch 
ple were injured, including Saeb Erakat, head of the PLO's negotiating team, who was slightly wounded in the leg. 
Chanting "Revenge! Revenge!" the teen-ager's fam­ily grabbed the body from an ambulance. They wrapped it in a Palestinian flag and carried it through the rubble-strewn streets to a cemetery for burial. 
The marchers called for Jews to be killed. One placard read: "You will not live on our land. You will not fly in our sky." 
In Hebron, a 17-year-old Palestinian was shot dead and 33 Arabs were injured in clash­es with soldiers that erupted after the military lifted a 6-day­
API'Wm. J. Castello old curfew for two hours to allow people to shop. 
At least 13 Palestinians were wounded by gunfire in scat­tered stone-throwing clashes with troops in the Gaza Strip, hospitals reported. 
Wednesday's fatalities raised the death toll since Friday to at least 66, including at least 30 men and boys massacred in the Hebron mosque Friday. All but three of those killed were Arabs. More than 400 people have been wounded. 
Officials at Tel Hashomer hospital near Tel Aviv said an 8-year-old Gaza girl shot in the head by troops Feb. 2 died of her wounds Wednesday. 


GRADUATION WORKERS MAY 6-15 


Free room/board $6.00 per hour 
ROOM CONTRACT SIGN UPS BEGIN MARCH 15 from lOAM-5PM LAST DAY TO SIGN CONTRACTS 4/4 ­
CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE LOWER LEVEL-SOUTH DINING HALL 631-5449 
~----~--~~--~~--~~--------------~----~~------~~------~-----.----------------------------~------------------------, 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 3, 1994 page? 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .................... .Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ...... -...................... Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administta­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Phoro Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through le!!ets is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporu 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

KIRSTEN DUNNE DESIDERATA 
Olympic skating judges affected by media spin doctors 
one Sam Sheppard was ar­skating abilities. And because rested for the murder of his that the extreme involvement of opinion did not focus on the The Olympic competitions the story made news world­wife. The case attracted the at­the media with this case de­probability of Sheppard's guilt which we have witnessed dur­wide, we can safely assume tention of local residents, news­prived Sheppard of a fair trial in this case, but only the proba­ing the past two weeks very that the judges were aware of papers and television broad­consistent with due process un­bility that the trial court's de­much resemble a courtroom sit­it, and that, whether or not they casts almost immediately. der the Fourteenth termination had been reached uation to the participants, and were supposed to consider it. it Most of the pretrial publicity Amendment. via a procedure inconsistent are every bit as important to did affect them-"(y)ou can was highly prejudicial towards Recognizing that freedom of with our Constitutional guaran­them. throw a skunk into the jury box Sheppard and made assertions speech and of the press rank tees. Since the latter probability Although other countries and instruct the jurors not to 
which were never introduced, among the most cherished lib­was quite high, Sheppard's con­which participate in the smell it, but it doesn't do any much less proven, at trial. He erties of American citizens, the viction was reversed. Olympics may not have systems good." 554 F.2d 1304, 1309 was subjected to a three-day Court found that, nevertheless, Unfortunately, many contro­of justice analogous to our own, (5th Cir. 1977) televised questioning period it could not infringe on the fair versies of a similar sort do not we should be able to expect Tonya Harding was just as without the assistance of coun­administration of justice. This attract the attention of the that our country, cognizant of much a victim of a tainted trial sel at one point, much of the in­meant that the press must not Supreme Court, but it cannot be the importance of this event to as Sam Sheppard. She, how­terrogation focusing on issues be allowed to divert courts' at­doubted that other trials have the fine athletes chosen to ever, cannot appeal the judges' which were not at all related to tention from their fundamental been similarly tainted by the participate in it, will do its best decision. This is obvious injus­
the murder charge. purpose-the adjudication of media-a form of communica­to assure fairness and equal tice, and it Is truly a shame that During the actual trial!. news disputes in the courtroom ac­tion which often values sensa­consideration to all involved. the media cannot recognize the cameras and reporters were cording to "legal procedures", tionalism over truth. And this Unfortunately, any hopes we due process that each one of us permitted to occupy the major­one of which is "the require­often occurs out of court as may have had along those lines deserves-not only as American ity of courtroom space; jurors ment that the jury's verdict be well, in situations which resem­have been dashed this time citizens, but, more fundamen­had access to all news media based on evidence received in ble the court system in many around. The American media tally, as human beings. before deliberations began. Not open court, not from outside respects, but which provide no took one athlete's dream and surprisingly, Sam Sheppard sources." 384 U.S. 333, 351 right of appeal when the deci­destroyed it by promulgating was found guilty. (1965). sion-making process has been negative publicity which had Kirsten Dunne is a second­The Supreme Court found One will note that the Court's contaminated. nothing to do with her year law student. 

DOONESBURY 
'NEITH/3R JeFF NOR I !<Nf/AJ ANYTHING ABOtff 7H!5.' U/13 /A/8!<& 5HXJ<&{}! HUI<TING NANCY alA? 7H& RJR.THtsr 7HIN<3 FROM OUR.. M/N/?5/ 
IA/8'/?£; COMP/&Tei,Y INNCUNT/" I 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''I JUST ANI?A&AIN!
6(X}f)/ NOUJ PIO< IT 
RtMeMeeR&f)­7H!SIS
UP AFTeR.. AG&NTIIZ'~ 
Jtff[}!{}IT.''' A CARI38R
9P!3t0/ A80UT HOW 
MOV8­

t.YING TO 7H/3 F.8.1. 
5&/,!Tl

15 A f'tl)£3RAt "'­
\
CRJM8 ... 

~ 
"' 

''Men weren't really the enemy-they were fel­low victims suffering from an outmoded masculine mystique that made them feel unnecessari­ly inadequate when there were no 
bears to kill." -Betty Friedan 
--~­

page8 Thursday, March 3, 1994
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reader: Who should be Saint Mary's president? 
Dear Editor: it may be prudent to fire the 
In a recent editorial ("Holy existing male faculty at SMC as Cross Sister for SMC well, although perhaps not all President," The Observer, Feb. at the same time. 24, 1994) The Observer pre­What about the women stu­scribes that a new president of dents at ND? Like their fellow 
(sister?) students at SMC, they too stand in need of a role model provided by the presi­
'' Notre Dame 
dent. Their numbers have
will have to 

grown steadily over the last few
search for a president 
years; soon they will form half capable of acting as of the ND student population. According to The Observer, the 
an appropriate role 
gender of the president is ulti­
model..." mately linked with that of the student body. This makes a change of the president of ND imperative. 
St. Mary's be appointed: a ND will have to search for a woman, sister, or lay person president capable of acting as who could function as a role an appropriate role model: model for the students. perhaps a hermaphrodite: half This transaction entails the male, half female. It's not go­
imminent dismissal of the pre­ing to be easy, The Observer sent, highly successful male will have to come up with some president of SMC, but this poses potent ideas. no problems to the editorial BRUNO SCHLESINGER writer, since he (she) does not Professor of 
even mention it. Humanistic Studies Another question: due to the SMC pressing need for role models, 

Rape elimination ultimate goal, not just sensitivity 
Dear Editor: the flyer indicates that what shocked Walk everytime they leave a building that I could both bash males and blame 
In response to Michele Cummings let­and disturbed (perhaps even subcon­past three or avoid trekking around victims simultaneously.) While I am ter ("C.A.R.E. responds to flyer: sciously) was the implied connection downtown South Bend at midnight alone sorry that some "sensitive" males took Precaution, never prevention". The between the word "rapist" and an ND does not mean they will never be a vic­offense to my hypothetical rapist, I am Observer, March 1, 1994), I am respon­student. The connection is scary tim. even more sorry that there are rapists sible for creating the "inflammatory" because it raises the possibility that any­Over half of all rapes are committed walking around this country as free men flyer which shocked and disturbed so one could be a rapist, as there are no set by someone known the the victim. Who because women were afraid to to speak many people on this campus this past "credentials" for being one. do we as ND females know? up or felt no one would believe their Valentine's Day. I am pleased to see that Combatting rape will require much Moreover, encouraging women to be story because the person who raped it generated such a reaction that even more than sensitizing men to the issue aware and protect themselves is not them happened to be a nice boy from a three weeks later a letter concerning it or simply helping women who have blaming them for a wrongful criminal nice family and not a sadistic stranger has been printed in The Observer. already been victimized get along with act committed by someone else. off the street. That victimization never 
First of all, rapists do not have "cre­their lives. The ultimate goal should be Whether a thief robs a house with iron disappears. dentials." I was not advertising for a rape elimination, not sensitization. bars and a hi-tech security alarm or one I agree with Ms. Cummings that edu­rapist. The description below the gener­Achieving this goal demands a two­with an unlocked front door and open cation is the frrst step towards elimina­
ic silhouette was simply that-a descrip­fold attack. From a legal aspect. windows does not change the fact that tion and it seems to me that my flyer 
tion. It could have been of anyone-a increased reporting, prosecution, and he is a thief and should be punished. played an integral role in motivating her professor, a priest, an electrician, a drug more stringent sentencing for convicted Not one phrase on the flyer included to expand on CARE's approach and phi­dealer, a serial killer. rapists, as well as an avoidance of blam­the word prevention. Rape can never be losophy about rape in her letter. In its 
This particular description happened ing the woman for what she was wear­completely prevented. The word used intention, I would say the flyer was a to be of a Notre Dame male student. Had ing or for being too trusting, are neces­was protection. Suggesting that women success. this flyer been an actual wanted poster sary. not take measures to protect themselves ANDREA GUTIERREZ with that description provided by a real However, by urging women to "be means that Detexes, Safe Walk, and self­Senior 
victim, how would the campus have aware and protect themselves always. defense classes should be abolished. Lyons Hall reacted? Shock? Horror? Disbelief? (not just part of the time). I was inform­I was not "pointing an accusatory fin­Anger? The similar reaction received by ing them that just because they call Safe ger" or bashing males. (I find it strange 
Strict traveling policy needed 
Dear Editor: Coach DeCicco's statement place before the swimmer's ac­
As I paged through The caused me to reflect on the cident? This question begs an­Observer on Tuesday evening, tragedy that befell our women's other: Since the accident, has I was struck by an article about swimming team little more than the University formulated or the Notre Dame Fencing team. two years ago. For the benefit updated such a policy? Such a The article. I believe, raised an of those students and faculty policy, I believe. would contain important issue for the Notre who were not part of our com­guidelines as to when a team Dame community: teams travel­munity at the time, let me men­can/should travel, alternate ing in bad weather conditions. tion the incident: Returning means of travel. etc. A univer­
The article concerned the from a meet in Chicago in poor sity policy would eliminate any fencing team's travel to com­weather conditions, the team's arbitrary decisions. Coaches, pete at a meet against Ohio bus crashed on Interstate 80-90 athletes, and the administration State. The article mentioned killing two swimmers and injur­would have a concrete set of the fact that "neither rain, nor ing many more. rules to follow concerning when 
sleet, nor snow" would keep the This horrible tragedy raised it is or is not too dangerous to 
team from getting to their com­the question: Would such an in­travel. 
petition. I read with concern cident have taken place had the Everyone knows the old say­
the statement: "'Just getting team not been traveling in such ing: If one does not learn from 
here was a major accomplish­adverse weather? his past, he is bound to repeat 
ment," laughed Men's Coach Obviously no one wants a re­it. The Notre Dame community 
Mike DeCicco about the weath­peat of the swim team's acci­must take steps to protect itself, 
er that turned a four hour bus dent. But the Notre Dame fenc­its students and its athletes. It 
trip into an eight hour journey." ing team's travel to Ohio State must make sure that it has 
Because of the poor weather raises an important question: made every attempt to ensure that made travel hazardous, Has the Administration and/or that nothing like what hap­four other schools had with­Athletic Department formulated pened before could possibly drawn from the competition; a guideline for team travel? happen again. A strict policy on Notre Dame was the only visit­Such a guideline would be a team travel would certainly be ing team to compete preventive act, an act that a step in this direction. (Northwestern, which would would take steps to ensure that BRIAN BAUMER have presumably traveled such a tragedy would never Junior through similar conditions, can­again befall the University. Off-Campus celed). I ask: Did the University have 
a specific team travel policy in 

A special supplement to The Observer 

By JOHN LUCAS Associate News Editor 
While critics question his abil­ity to make the College Football Hall of Fame a success, Mayor Joe Kernan believes that the state-of-the-art sports shrine will be a: critical part of boost­ing economic growth and luring tourism dollars to the South Bend area. 
"From the perspective of the city, there has been no more important project than the Hall of Fame since the development of the Century Center," Kernan said, speaking of the multi-mil­lion dollar convention hall pro­ject. "As we get one day closer to getting moving on the Hall, we're also one day closer to benefits for the city and the entire community." 
Kernan, backed by his eco­nomic advisers, foresee a boost in economic growth, tourism, and prestige because of the Hall. "This project will add to the image of South Bend in a very positive way," he said. 
In the South Bend area, there is much support and enthusi­asm for the project and its potential economic benefits, but lately critics have been increas­ingly vocal in questioning whether the project is worth the effort. 
To complete the Hall of Fame project, plans call for a total of $14 million, all of which will consist of private and corporate donations. Of that money, $7 million will go to the actual construction of the building, while the other $7 million will support a host of displays and other exhibitions. 
Although ground is supposed to be broken in April, Kernan has kept the list of sponsors a closely guarded secret, and as of now, he is the only one with knowledge of how much money is still needed. 
According to a recent series of articles written by the South Bend Tribune, residents are beginning to wonder if the silence on financing issues indi­cates a failure that will eventu­ally translate to a hike in their property taxes. 
Some even complain that the city agreed to a bad deal with the sponsors of the Hall, the National Football Foundation, in order to lure the project away from larger cities like Atlanta and Houston. 
"With the complete backing of the NFF, there is no objection," said South Bend resident Jim Cierzniak, an outspoken critic of the project. "But this is a city-sponsored project where we will cover all losses and donate portions of the profits to the NFF. This was a sweetheart deal from the beginning, and it's a deal from hell for the South Bend taxpayers." 
Citing the opposition of crit­ics, Kernan said the delicate nature of raising funds from major corporations has forced him to keep the process under wraps until he is certain of his commitments. 
"In any business deal, the confidentiality of negotiations is very important," he said. "In a pure business context, we need to respect the wishes of the individuals and corporations we're dealing with." 
Soon, the mayor will be forced to tip his hand. In order to gain the approval of a com­plicated bond issue on March 14, Kernan needs to show the city-council significant progress towards his initial goal. 
Despite the cloud of secrecy which has unnerved many resi­dents, Kernan remains confi­dent of delivering the funds to make the hall a reality. 
"I would expect that we pro­ceed with the sale of bonds," Kernan said. "From that, you can infer that the Hall of Fame project is continuing to move forward. We hope to have in place somewhere in the neigh­borhood of half of the $14 mil­lion." 
If and when the Hall ever gets built, visitors will find a techno­logical and architectural achieve­ment waiting for them. 
Stressing the need for balance between the modern look of the downtown center area and the old-fashioned tradition of col­lege football, project manager Mikki Dobski explained that the building will attempt to accom­modate the best of both worlds. 
While half of the fa<;ade takes on a traditional look, the side facing the ultra-modern Mar­riott-First Source Bank building and the Century Center will be supported by a futuristic glass wall. 
On the inside, the exhibitions will be highlighted by a 360° theater designed with a screen and sound system that will swallow viewers into the heart of a football stadium on a Saturday afternoon. 
In addition, visitors can get an idea of the college football experience through interactive information displays that range from computerized exhibits highlighting a decade of college football to physical challenge areas, where visitors can throw a pass or kick a field goal. 
"The exhibitions are the heart and soul of the building," Doh­ski said. "By having participato­ry, interactive displays at the Hall, you get a Disney World kind of feel." 
Attendance projections by the Economic Research Associates firm estimate that over 180,000 people will visit the hall every year during its first ten years of operation. 
Downtown business owners have expressed concern that visitors will only come on the six Notre Dame home football weekends, rather than through­out the entire year. Dobski and Kernan contend that special events throughout the year would boost overall attendance. 
"The potential for being an attraction above and beyond these six home weekends is really unlimited," Kernan agreed. 
Indeed, the marketing of the Hall will be linked to the Century Center and the Mar­riott. The downtown area will become an ideal place to hold conventions and gathering, par­ticularly for those in the sports industry, Dobski said. 
Although Notre Dame lends a tremendous presence by help­ing to draw college football fans into the area, as well as having the highest number of induct­ees, the University will have no special exhibition or official role in the development of the Hall. 
"The football history of the South Bend area is only a plus," she said. "But we were really walking a thin line when it came to showing the search committee that we were inter­ested in having a national exhibit." 
South Bend began making its pitch to the national search committee in the fall of 1992, after the former Hall of Fame site in Kings Mills, Ohio, closed due to poor attendance. 
The Kings Mills Hall, which cost an estimated $7 million, was just minutes away from the popular Kings Island theme park outside of Cincinnati. Planners of that project expect­ed the park to draw people to the attraction, but the popular­ity of the park may have led to its demise. 
South Bend will be able to avoid the pitfalls of the Kings Mills failure for several rea­sons, according to Dobski. 
In addition to the draw of Notre Dame, the South Bend Hall will not be forced to com­pete with a theme park. The Hall will also be seven million dollars more expensive, which will insure a first-rate attrac­tion that people will go out of their way to visit. 
Despite all the assurances, Cierzniak remains unconvinced that the money is not headed down the drain. For the last year, he has lead the opposition to the hall, annoying Kernan to the point where the latter has accused Cierzniak of trying to "sabotage" the project. 
"Seven million dollars of foot­ball exhibits make me sick," Cierzniak said. ''I'm as big a football fan as anybody, but the Hall of Fame is a costly frill that only diverts money away from more important concerns in the community." 
Cierzniak contends that the NFF has a poor track record of supporting the previous Halls of Fame located in Kings Mills and another site in Rutgers, New Jersey. 
Without securing guarantees from the NFF that include the rights to a marquee event like the annual Kickoff Classic or the Hall of Fame Bowl, the South Bend Hall will have a hard time prospering, he said. 
Kernan sees things in a differ­ent way. 
"We couldn't be happier with our partners or more comfort­able with their level of commit­ment," Kernan said. "I don't think having a game is a critical element of the success of the Hall." 
Despite the criticism, Dobski and Kernan remain undaunted. They contend the Hall will open as scheduled in the late sum­mer of 1995. 
"This is a once in a lifetime opportunity to be home of a national attraction," said Dobski. "Other cities went bal­listic when they found out we had the winning bid. We are still confident we are moving absolutely forward." 
STREETLEVEL 
RIVER LEVEL 
THE EXHIBITS 
&MALL OF CHAMPIONS 
tmmortal!zed upon displays organized in chronological order, each Hall of ~ame _1~duct~e ~ill be sh?wn within the context of his college days. ~IS exhibit, which IS compnsed of two parts, features memorabilia from 
their college football careers and from college football in general. 
8 LOCKER ROOM 
'The:teft half of this enclosed space reflects the layout of a modern locker mom. witb the right half resembling a locker roorn of the Rockne era.Artif:acts along the side .walls include modern and early uniforms and e£ti.HPI1lefll.The back wall displays mini-exhibits dedicated to legendary coaches. In the center a series of modern and historic locker room benehes provides seating for occasional program activities and for the usual focus of the room: a large framed chalkboard at the front that appears to be ordinary but is in fact a projection screen. 
0 TRAINING AND SPORTS SCIENCE 
The history and work of the professions associated with the care· of athletes are illustrated by cutout figures busy in their various milieus. An interactive exhibit allows visitors to perform the National Operating Com­mittee on Standards for Athletic Equipment lab drop test on a helmet. 
0 TRAINING ROOM 
~ive !ootball players welcome visitors to the Training Room. These 
hfe-stze transparent cutout figures, first seen in uniform and then in 
their skivvies when illuminated by visitors' pushing of a button, repre­
sent play_er bo~y_types: q~arter_back, kicker, lineman, running back, 
and rece1ver. Vtsttors begtn thetr self-assessment by considering 
introduct~ry nutrition and lifestyle information, comparing their body 
sh~pes w1th those of the five football players, and measuring their 
hetght and weight at the sonar-activated detection station. Then 
visitors_can test th~ir proficiency at individual challenges that repre­
se~~ sk1lls that are Important for success in football: vertical leap, 
agthty, upper-body strength, balance, flexibility, and reaction time. 
1008PRACTICE FIELD 
In thcee ba¥-5 separated by colorful PVC-coated chain-link fencing the 
~nt?l skills of football ar~ presen!ed. A scoreboard hangs from 
the ce1hng-tn each bay. Three different SIZed balls-a reproduction large 
old-style ball, a contemporary one, and a junior-sized ball-are available _in each bay 1b add to the degree of difficulty in performing the skill. 
··passthree times at two cutout football player one low in the pocket and at one leaping high. ~~Jatt:.l'lt:l:lif.l the catchable zone on each player. The hitting the innermost circle. This is a timed event. Participants cross the sensor that provides a ready-set-go signal. 
~lBD--GV•I'II" orbS'Itaclles. foam-covered bottom-weighted pop-up dummies, . . ·.· must be negotiated before reaching the finish ·trips the sensor to reveal the participant's time. 
:X~~~J;· . line up with the tee mounted permanently on 
· and follow through. A successful kick of the ball posts activates a large sensor panel on the back <'.Uti<>t.<>rc: points on the scoreboard. · 
0 SCHOLAR-ATHLETE 
The National Football Foundation Scholar-Athlete Award is the highest hon~r bestowed on college football players, awarded every year to sem?rs who have demonstrated outstanding football ability and aca­demiC performance. The exhibit features two interactive video displays which allow visitors to learn more about the Scholar-Athletes. 
0 EVOLUTION OF EQUIPMENT 
The progression of uniforms-from minimal attire in the early days of the game to t~e very protective uniforms of today-is illustrated by a sequence of llfecast f1gures posed on and around a sidelines bench representing the eras where most change has occurred over the last one hundred thirty years: 1869, 1889, 1912, 1943, 1960, and 1988. 
·~STRATEGY CLINIC 
Understanding the game and its components-offensive and defensive thinki_ng, the kicking game, special teams, game philosophy, motivation, pra«?tl?e, and m~nagin_g game day-are informatively interpreted in this e~~1b1t. Large d1mens1onal Xs and Os suspended from the ceiling d1v1de the room between the offense and the defense and reinforce the fun of intellectual challenge. 
mPIGSKIN PAGEANTRY 
Visitors enter this gallery full of color, sound, and action through a hoop gripped by a mascot on one side and a cheerleader on the other. Along with brief.histories of tailgating, cheerleaders and mascots, bands, and fans""""":all1llus~rated by artifacts, p~o.tos, and interpretive graphics­many mteracttve elements allow v1s1tors to participate. 
CD BOWL GAMES 
A flipbook on a central pedes­tal provides statistics and history about the games. The seven earliest be text, photos, artifacts, and trophies. Alit featured on panels that pull from thew< 
'~G) HIGHLIGHTS THEATER f 
Enclosed within full-height walls tracing tory of past All-American teams, visitors interactive touch-screen monitor or rela tive 2-4 minute video presentations wh1 · larger monitor of highlights from footbal 
e NATIONAL CHAMPIONS~ 
With General MacArthur's portrait in the Football Foundation's MacArthur Bowl ( champion) is the central focus of the ex interpret the other major division cham~ 
D 
VEST. 


ARCHIVE/LIBRARY COLLECTION STORAGE 
are interpreted with games will be far left of the exhibit. 
words and pictures the his­cluster around a central a bench to enjoy informa­
will also be displayed on a most prestigious awards. 
the National to the Division 1-AA Nearby photos and text ships. 
c .Education 
d DireCtor 
e Conference. 
'Work Room 
a Reading Room g Exhibits 
b Curator h Waiting/ReQE!ptiori 
GREAT MOMENTS KIOSK 
Visitors enter this football-shaped video kiosk to view six videos CEntered around championship teams, great upsets, legendary games, legend<!£Y bloopers, great bowl games, and great plays. 
This exhibit is a place of distinction for the recipients of several annual individual player honors awarded to exceptional college football play­ers. It is comprised of individual units, each with a larger-than-life-size color photo of the winner on a panel complete with the name of the award, the name of the winner, the accomplishment it recognizes, and by whom it is given. Past winners are listed along the base of each unit. 
G'THEME SCULPTURE . 
Rom its crowning larger-than-life figure of a college football player in actitiln to its base, the Theme Sculpture symbolizes amateur football­a uniquely American institution that is played at many levels and cul­minates here with the depiction of college athletes in the prime of their lives. Compgsed of life-cast figures, football artifacts, and audiovisual elements (three groupings of three video monitors will be nested within the sculpture), the Theme Sculpture is a representation of the positive values foster.ed by the sport of football. 
RESEARCH: The Observer/ Brendan Regan 
GRAPHIC DESIGN: The Observer/ Brendan Regan 

.t..t,,,,.,linn -.:.;y.,....,.,n~;,,hments, contributions, and sacrifices of im­oprganizations are recognized by the National 
. . other groups in the Hall of Honor. Recipients of , the Geld Madaf Distinguished American Award, and Outstanding Ccntributiim to Amateur Football Award are on display, along with a me­
•· moria! aT'faY df broDZe plaques honoring Wichita State, Marshall, and Cal · Poly Sta.Uootball teams wl:licbl:tied in accidents. 
G)"GREAT RIVALRIES. 
Accordion-pleated pennants catch the eye by revealing first the name of one rival and then that of the other as visitors walk past. The pennants of twenty-four great rival pairs provide the focal point for the display of logos, photographs, and artifacts of the rivalries. 

THEATER 

dynamic use of both still pictures and video, a 360° thea­fOOiball to life. Images surround visitors, placing them hard-hitti~· football game, a marching band, or OP.,t:Ju:m£:nels inside seat visitors for a 10:00 Pre-Show. MhliCtSi'-rte:ll 8:45 llllain Show, which repeat continually. 
G COVERING THE GAME: THE MEDIA 
Great football writing and coverage are celebrated in this exhibit, which is divided by the three historical forms of press coverage-print, radio, and television media-with a typical press box setting for each era. Major media awards are diasplayed on risers at the front of each case. 
41 YOU CALL THE PLAY 
This glass-fronted simulation press box invites visitors to sit at a micro­phone and describe football action as they watch it unfold. It is equipped with a video camera and recorder, so participants can purchase a video­tape of their sportscasting debut. 
e FIELDS, FOOTBALLS, AND OFFICIALS 
This exhibit provides an overview of the size and variety of stadiums and focuses on a handful of particularly interesting ones. Sod, prescription, and artificial turf are contrasted to illustrate technology's contest with mother nature to provide the best playing surface. Artifacts and repro­ductions of footballs and officials' gear round out the exhibit. 




Chicago Miami (Ohio) North Carolina Pacific 
Tulsa
PLAYERS Andrew Robert Wyant 
1894 Bob Babich 1968 Charles Justice 1949 Eddie LeBaron 1949 Glenn Dobbs 1954 Clarence Herschberger 1898 Air Force Walter Eckersall 1906 ~ North Carolina State Pennsylvania Brock Strom 1959 Walter Steffen 1908 Georgia Tech Jack McDowall 1927 Winchester Dana Osgood 1894 Southern California Paul R. DesJardin 1914 Everett Strupper 1917 Roman Gabriel 1961 George H. Brooke 1895 Morton Kaer 1926 John Jay Berwanger 1935 Joseph Guyon 1918 ~ Charles G. Gelbert 1896 Morley Drury 1927 William E. Fincher 1920 Michigan North Texas State Charles Wharton 1896 John W. Baker 1931 UCLA Clemson Allen Ralph Flowers 1921 Neil Worthington Snow 1901 Joe Green 1968 John Henry Minds 1897 Erny Pinckert 1931 Kenneth Washington 1939 James Banks McFadden 1939 Henry Pund 1928 William M. Heston 1904 
Thomas Truxtun Hare 1900 Gus Shaver 1931 AI Sparlis 1945 Alabama Robert T. Davis 1947 Adolf Schulz 1908 Vincent Stevenson 1905 Raymond Brown 1932 Thomas Fears 1947 John Mack Brown 1925 Colgate George Morris 1952 ·Albert Benbrook 1910 Robert Torrey 1905 Ernest Smith 1932 Donn Dement Moomaw 1952 Allison Hubert 1925 Ellery Huntington 1914 Maxie Baughan 1959 John F. Maulbetsch 1914 William M. Hollenback 1908 Aaron Rosenberg 1933 Gary Beban 1967 Frederick Sington 1930 Earl Clark Abell 1915 Henry Vick 1921 Hunter Scarlett 1908 Irvine Warburton 1934 Kenny Easley 1980 John Lewis Cain 1932 David Belford West 1919 Hardin-Simmons Harry C. Kipke 1923 Northwestern LeRoy Mercer 1912 Harry Smith 1939 Millard F. Howell 1934 Edward J. Tryan 1925 Clyde Turner 1939 Benjamin Friedman 1926 James E. Johnson 1905 Edward McGinley 1924 Paul Cleary 1947 Utah State 
Don Hutson 1934 John Orsi 1931 Benjamin Oosterbaan 1927 John Leo Driscoll 1917 Anthony Minisi 1947 John Ferraro 1947 Merlin Olsen 1961 Riley Smith 1935 Daniel Fortmann . 1935 Harvard Harry Lawrence Newman 1922 Ralph Baker 1926 George Savitsky 1947 Frank N. Gifford 1951 Vaughn Mancha 1947 Marshall Newell 1893 Francis Wistert 1933 John Riley 1931 Charles Bednarik 1948 Mike McKeever 1960 Vanderbilt Lee Roy Jordan 1962 Colorado Charles Brewer 1895 Thomas Harmon 1940 Ernest Renter 1932 Francis J. Bagnell 1950 Mike Garrett 1965 John Tigert 1903 Harry Gilmer 1993 Byron White 1938 William T. Reid 1899 Robert B. Westfall 1941 Edgar Manske 1933 Anthony Ron Yary 1967 Joshua Cody 1919 Joseph.Howard Romig 1961 David Colin Campbell 1901 Albert Wistert 1942 Steve Reid O.J. Simpson 1968 Robert L~nn Bomar 1924 Amherst Dick Anderson 1967 Hamilton Fish 1909 Elroy Hirsch 1943 Otto E. Graham 1943 Lynn Swann 1973 William pears 1927
19361[~~
John Houghton Hubbard 1906 Robert T. Fisher 1911 Merv Pregulman 1943 Ron Burton 1959 Marvin Powell 1976 Carl C. Hinkle 1937 Colorado College Percy Wenda! I 1912 Robert Chappuis .1947 Arkansas Earl Harry Clark 1929 H.R. Hardwick 1914 Chalmers Elliott 1947 
Penn State Southern Methodist Virginia 
Wear K. Schoonover 1929 Stanley Pennock 1914 Pete Elliott 1948 
J.L.Mauthe 1912 Gerald C. Mann 1927 William McGarvey Dudley 1941 Clyde Scott 1948 Colorado State Edward W. Mahan 1915 Alvin Wistert 1949 
Dexter W. Very 1912 Robert Edward Wilson 1935 Thomas Scott 1953 Lance Alworth 1961 Thurman McGraw 1949 Edward L. Casey 1919 Ronald John Kramer 1959 
~ 
Eugene Miller 1913 Ewell Doak Walker 1949 George Owen, Jr. 1922 
-

Glenn Killinger 1921 William Kyle Rote 1950 Virginia Military Institute 
'' .
Notre DameArmy Columbia Benjamin Ticknor 1930 

Steve Suhey 1947 Don Meredith 1959 James Leech 1920 Paul Delmont Bunker 1902 William Morley 1902 Barry Wood 1931 Louis Salmon 1903 
Richie Lucas 1959 Charles Dudley Daly 1902 Harold Hathaway Weekes 1902 Endicott Peabody 1941 Ray Eichenlaub 1914 
Ted Kwalick 1968 Stanford Virginia Tech Alexander Weyand 1915 Walter Koppisch 1924 
Mike Reid 1969 Ernest A. Neuvers 1925 C. Hunter Carpenter 1905 John James McEwan 1916 Clifford Montgomery 1933 Hobart Michigan State 
GeorgeGip~ 1920 
Heartly W. nderson 1921 

Jack Ham 1970 William B. Corbus 1933 Carroll Wayne Dale 1959 · Elmer 0. Oliphant 1917 Sid Luckman 1938 Merle Amerson Gulick 1929 John Spencer Pingel 1938 
James Crowley 1924 

John Cappelletti 1973 Robert Grayson 1935 Edgar W. Garbisch 1924 Paul Governali 1942 Don Edwin Coleman 1951 
Elmer F Layden 1924 

Robert A. Hamilton 1935 Harry E. Wilson 1926 William Swiacki 1947 Holy Cross Charles A. Smith 1966 
Donald C. Miller 1924 

Monk Moscrip 1935 1.... "" Mortimer Sprague 1928 William T. Osmanski 1938 George D. Webster 1966 
Edgar Miller 1924 

Robert Reynolds 1935 
,-" ' i . ,----. ~ ~' 
Harry Stuhldreher 1924 


Hugh H. Gallarneau 1940 Harvey Jablonsky 1933 C I i nton Wyckoff 1895 
Christian K. Cagle 1929 Cornell Adam James Walsh 1924 
~-:-m 

Frank C. Albert 1941 Washington Robin Olds 1942 William Jay Warner 1904 
John Smith 1927 

Pittsburgh Charles Albert Taylor 1942 GeorgeS. Wilson 1925 
Fred Miller 1928 

Joseph Henry Thompson 1906 William McColl 1951 Charles 0. Carroll 1928 John Green 1945 Jack O'Hearn 1915 
E. Douglas Kenna 1944 Charles Barrett 1915 
[(f((ll)] 
John Cannon 1929 

John Wagner 1913 John Brodie 1956 Paul Schwegler 1931 Felix A. Blanchard 1946 Murry Shelton 1915 Illinois Minnesota 
Frank F. Carideo 1930 

Robert Peck 1916 Jim Plunkett 1970 Max Starcevich 1936 Glenn Davis 1946 Edgar L. Kaw 1922 Bart Macomber 1915 Edward L. Rogers 1903 
Bert Metzger 1930 

George Mclaren 1918 Victor Markov 1937 Joseph B. Steffy 1947 George P. Pfann 1923 Charles Roslyn Carney 1921 Robert Marshall 1906 
Frank Hoffman 1931 

Thomas J. Davies 1921 Swarthmore Hugh E. McEihenny 1951 Arnold A. Galiffa 1949 Franl< Sundstrom 1923 Harold Grange 1925 John Francis McGovern 1910 
Marchman! Schwartz 1931 

Herbert Stein 1921 Robert Maxwell 1906 Don Heinrich 1952 Don Hoi Ieder 1955 Jerome Holland 1938 Bernie Shively 1926 Albert Baston 1916 
Tom Yarr 1931 

Joseph Donchess 1929 Robert Schloredt 1960 Peter Miller Dawkins 1958 Nicholas Drahos 1940 Alexander Arrasi Agase 1946 Herbert W. Joesting 1927 
William Shakespeare 1935 

Joseph Skladany 1933 Syracuse William Carpenter 1959 Ed Marinaro 1971 Claude Young 1946 Bronislaw Nagurski 1929 
Wayne Millner 1935 

Averell Daniell 1936 Joseph A. Alexander 1920 Washington &Jefferson 
Angelo Bertelli 1943 

Marshall Goldberg 1938 Victor Arthur Hanson 1926 Wilbur Henry 1919 Auburn Dartmouth Dick Butkus 1964 Ed Widseth 1936 
J.C. Caroline 1954 Francis L. Lund 1934 Creighton E. Miller 1943 
Mike Ditka 1960 Ernest Davis 1961 Jarnes F. Hitchcock 1932 Clarence Spears 1915 Bruce Srnilh 1941 
George L. Connor 1947 

Tony Dorsett 1976 Floyd Little 1966 Washington &Lee Walter Beasley Gilbert 1936 Edward Francis Healey 1916 Indiana Richard Kay Wi Idung 1942 
Zygmonl P. Czarobski 1947 

Larry Csonka 1967 Harry Killinger Young 1916 Tucker Frederickson 1964 Andrew Obserlander 1925 Zora Clevenger 1903 Leo Nornellini 1949 
John C. Lujack 1947 

Princeton Edmund M. Cameron 1924 Pat Sullivan 1971 Myles Joseph Lane 1927 John Tavener 1944 F. Clayton tonnemaker 1949 
William Fischer 1948 

Alexander Moffat 1883 William H. Morton 1931 Peter Pihos 1946 Paul Robert Giel 1953 
Leon Joseph Hart 1949 

Knowlton Ames 1889 
Washington State Baylor Robert F. Macleod 1938 George Taliaferro 1948 Bobby Bell 1962 Emil Martin Silko , 1!149 
Hector W. Cowan 1889 Melvin Hein 1930 Barton Koch 1931 
Robert A. Williams "1950 

Phillip King 1893 Glen Edwards 1931 Jim R. Smith 1954 DePauw Mississippi 
Jerry Groom 1950 

Arthur Wheeler 1894 Tennessee Bill Glass 1956 Robert Steuber 1943 Frank Kinard 1937 
Langdon Lea 1895 Nathan W. Dougherty 1909 Wesleyan University Larry Elkins 1964 Linus Parker Hall 1938 
John~ Lattner 1953 
Paul ornung 1956 

Garrett Cochran 1897 Robert Lee Dodd 1930 Henderson Surdam 1905 Detroit Charles A. Conerly 1947
£~ 
Alan Page {· i.. 1956 

William Edwards 1899 Herman Michael Hickman 1931 C. Everett Bacon 1912 Boston College Vincent Banonis 1941 Iowa George Bl!rney Poole 1947 
Art Hillenbrand 1899 Eugene Tucker McEver 1931 Chester Gladchuck 1940 Aubrey Alvin Devine 1921 Archie Manning 1970 
Arthur Poe 1899 William Beattie Feathers 1933 West Virginia Gene Goodreault 1940 Drake Fred F. Slater 1921 John DeWitt 1904 Bowden Wyatt 1938 Ira Errett Rodgers 1919 Charles O'Rourke 1940 John Bright 1950 Gordon Locke 1922 Mississippi College Jarnes B. McCormick 1907 George Cafego 1939 Joseph Stydahar 1935 George Kerr 1940 Nile C. Kinnick 1939 Edwin Hale 1921 Edward J. Hart 1911 Robert Lee Suffridge 1940 Bruce Bosley 1955 Mike Holovak 1942 Duke Calvin Jones 1955 Hobart Baker 1913 Edward Malinski 1940 Robert Lee Huff 1955 Fred E. Crawford 1933 Alex Karras 1957 Mississippi State Ohio State Harold Ballin 1914 Doug Atkins 1952 Boston University Clarence Parker 1936 Jack D. Parker 1953 Charles·Harley 1918 James S. Keck 1921 Hank Lauricella 1952 West Virginia Wesleyan Harry Agganis 1952 Daniel Winfield Hill 1938 Iowa State Gaylord Stinchcomb 1920 Donald B. Lourie 1921 John Majors 1956 Clifford Battles 1931 Eric Tipton 1938 Edward John Bock 1938 Missouri Wesley Fesler 1930 John Weller 1935 Steve Delong 1964 Brigham Young George Anderson McAfee 1939 Ed Travis 1920 Garner Jones 1935 Holland Donan 1950 Bob Johnson 1967 William &Mary Gifford Nielsen 1976 Steve Lach 1941 Kansas Paul Christman 1940 Gust C. Zarnas 1937 Richard Kazmaier 1951 Garrard Ramsey 1942 AI DeRogatis 1948 Jarnes Bausch 1930 Darold W. Jenkins 1941 James Daniell 1941 Texas Jack Cloud 1949 Brown Michael McGee 1959 Ray Richard Evans 1947 Leslie Horvath 1944 -' ' Harrison Stafford 1932 
~--·r.

William Sprackling 1911 John HadI 1961 Montana William Willis 1944 Malcolm James Kutner 1941 Williams Frederick Pollard 1916 Florida Gale Sayers 1964 William Kelly 1926 Warren Am ling 1946 ~-~ .__:___ l ~ _---'~:--Hub Bechtol 1946 Benny Lee Boynton 1920 Dale Van Sickel 1929 Victor Janowicz 1951 Robert Layne 1947 Steve Spurrier 1966 Kentucky Navy Howard Cassady 1955 Purdue Lewis McFadin 1950 Wisconsin Bob Gain 1950 Jonas E. Ingram 1906 Jarnes Thomas Parker 1956 Cecil Isbell 1937 Tommy Nobis 1965 Patrick John O'Dea 1899 Vito Pari IIi 1951 John Patrick Dalton 1911 Aurealius Thomas 1957 Robert Griese 1966 Earl Campbell 1977 Robert Parker Butler 1912 John H. Brown 1913 Jim Stillwagon 1970 Leroy Keyes 1968 Martin Below 1923 Lafayette Thomas Jarnes Hamilton 1926 Archie Griffin 1975 TexasA&M Pat Harder 1942 Charles Rinehart 1897 Frank Henry Wickhorst 1926 
Rice Joseph Utay 1907 David N. Schreiner 1942 Frank Schwab 1922 Fred Borries, Jr. 1934 William Wallace 1935 Joe Hunt 1927 Alan Arneche 1954 Charles Berry 1924 Slade Cutter 1934 Weldon Humble 1946 Joseph E. Routt 1937 Walter Arthur Gordon 1918 
George B. Wilson 1928 Donald Boone Whitmire 1944 James Williams 1949 John C. Kimbrough 1940 Yale Stanley N. Barnes 1921 Richard U. Scott 1947 Dick Maegle 1954 Jack Pardee 1956 William H. Corbin 1888 Dan Alexander McMillan 1922 Fordham Lehigh Steve Eisenhauer 1953 Oklahoma Buddy Dial 1958 John D. Crow 1957 Arnos Alonzo Stagg 1889 Harold Muller 1922 Edmund Franco 1937 Vincent Joseph Pazzetti 1912 Ron Beagle 1955 Claude Edwin Reeds 1913 Charles Krueger 1957 W.W. Heffelfinger 1891 Edwin Horrell 1924 Alex Wojciechowicz 1937 Joseph M. Bellino 1960 Forest Geyer 1915 Rutgers Thomas Lee McClung 1891 Samuel Chapman 1937 Louisiana State Roger Slaubach 1964 Walter Young 1938 Hamar Howard Hazel 1924 Texas Christian Frank Hinkey 1894 Robert John Herwig 1937 Geneva G. E. Fenton 1909 
Jim Owens 1949 Raymond Asa Matthews 1927 William Orville Hickok 1894 Vic Bottari 1938 Robert Hubbard 1926 Abe Micka! 1935 Billy Vessels 1952 Saint Mary's Darrell G. Lester 1935 Samuel B. Thorne 1895


... 
Jack Jensen 1948 Gaynell Charles Tinsley 1938 J.D. Roberts 1953 Lawrence Bettencourt 1927 Samuel A. Baugh 1936 Francis Gordon Brown 1900 Rodney T. Franz 1949 Georgetown Kenneth W. Kavanaugh 1939 Torn McDonald 1956 Herman Wedemeyer 1947 Charles C. Aldrich 1938 James Hogan 1904 Leslie Richter 1951 Augie Lio 1940 Steve Owens 1969 Robert Davey O'Brien 1938 Thomas L. Shelvin 1905 Matt Hazeltine, Jr. 1954 AI Blozis 1942 Maryland Nebraska Lee Roy Selmon 1975 San Diego State James Swink 1956 Edward H. Coy 1909 Robert Ward 1951 Berlin Guy Chamberlin 1915 George Brown 1947 Robert Lilly 1960 John Reed Kilpatrick 1910 Carlisle Jack Scarbath 1952 Clarence Swanson 1921 Oklahoma State Arthur Howe 1911 Albert A. Expendine 1907 Dick Modzelewski 1952 EdWeir 1925 Robert Fenimore 1946 San Francisco Texas Tech Douglas Borneisler 1913 James Thorpe 1912 Randy White 1974 Robert Reynolds 1932 Ollie Matson 1951 Emil J. Holub 1960 Henry H. Ketcham 1913 Gus Welch 1914 ~ George Henry Sauer 1933 Oregon Don Anderson 1965 Malcolm P. Aldrich 1921 Georgia Harrison Francis 1936 John W. Beckett 1916 Santa Clara William Neely Mallory 1923 Carnegie Tech Robert Ligon McWhorter 1913 • i ~ · Forrest E. Behm, Jr. 1940 John Kitzmiller 1930 Nella Falaschi 1936 Tulane Century Allen Milstead 1923 Lloyd Yoder 1926 Vernon Smith 1931 '•, ~ Bob Brown 1963 Norman VanBrocklin 1948 Les Lautenschlaeger 1925 Marvin Stevens 1924 Howard Harpster 1928 William Hartman 1937 Wayne Meylan 1967 Mel Renfro 1963 Sewanee Willis Banker 1929 Herbert Sturhan 1926 Frank Sinkwich 1942 Miami (Florida) Henry Goldthwaite Seibels 1899 Gerald Dalrymple 1931 AI bert J. Booth 1931 Centre Charles Trippi 1946 Don Bosseler 1956 New York University Oregon State Henry Disbrow Phillips 1904 Claude Simons 1934 Lawrence M. Kelly 1936 Alvin McMillin 1921 Fran Tarkenton 1960 Ted Hendricks 1968 Kenneth Elrner Strong 1928 Terry Baker 1962 Frank Alexander Juhan 1910 Eddie Price 1949 Clinton E. Frank 1937 

COACHES 
Aillet, Joe; Louisiana Tech, 1989. Alexander, William A.; Georgia Tech, 1951 Anderson, Edward; Loras, DePaul, Holy Cross, Iowa, 1971 Armstrong, Ike; Utah, 1957 Bachman, Charlie; Great Lakes Naval Station, Northwestern, Kansas State, Florida, Michigan State, Hillsdale, 1978 Bell, Madison; Haskell, Carroll (Wisconsin), Texas Christian, Texas A&M, Southern Methodist, 1955 Bezdek, Hugo; Oregon, Arkansas, Penn State, Delaware Valley, 1954 Bible, Dana X.; Mississippi College, Louisiana State, Texas A&M, Nebraska, Texas, 1951 Bierman, Bernard W.; Montana, Mississippi State, Tulane, Minnesota, 1955 Blackman, Robert; Denver, Dartmouth, Illinois, Cornell, 1987 Blaik, Earl Henry; Dartmouth, Army, 1964 Broyles, Frank; Missouri, Arkansas, 1983 ­Bryant, Paul; Maryland, Kentucky, Texas A&M, Alabama, 1986 Caldwell, Charles W., Jr.; Williams, Princeton, 1961 Camp, Walter Chauncey; Stanford, Yale, 1951 Casanova, Leonard; Santa Clara, Pittsburgh, Oregon, 1977 Cavanaugh, Frank W.; Cincinnati, Holy Cross, Dartmouth, Boston College, Fordham, 1954 Crisler, Herbert 0.; Minnesota, Princeton, Michigan, 1954 Daugherty, Hugh Duffy; Michigan State, 1984 Devaney, Robert; Wyoming, Nebraska, 1981 Devine, Dan; Arizona State, Missouri, Notre Darne, 1985 Dobie, Gilmore; North Dakota State, Washington, Navy, Cornell, Boston College, 1951 Dodd, Bobby; Georgia Tech, 1966 Dooley, Vince; Georgia, 1988 Donahue, Michael J.; Auburn, Louisiana Stale, 1951 Dorais, Charles E.; Loras, Gonzaga, Detroit, 1954 Edwards, William; Western Reserve, Vanderbilt, Wittenberg, 1986 Engle, Charles; Brown, Penn Stale, 1973 Faurot, Donald B.; Northeast Missouri, Missouri, 1961 Gaither, Alonzo S.; Henderson Institute, Saint Paul's College, Florida A&M, 1975 Gillman, Sid; Miami (Ohio), Cincinnati, 1989 Godfrey, Ernest; Wittenberg, Ohio State, 1972 Gustafson, Andrew; Virginia Tech, Miami (Florida), 1985 Hall, Edward K.; Illinois, 1951 Harding, John Joseph; Scranton, Miami (Florida), 1980 Harlow, Richard C.; Penn State, Colgate, Western Maryland, Harvard, 1954 Harman, Harvey J.; Haverford, Sewanee, Pennsylvania, Rutgers, 1981 Harper, Jesse C.; Alrna, Wabash, Notre Dame, 1971 Haughton, Percy; Cornell, Harvard, Columbia, 1951 Hayes, Wayne Woodrow; Denison, Miami (Ohio), Ohio Slate, 1983 Heisman, John W.; Oberlin, Akron, Clemson, Georgia Tech, Pennsylvania, Washington &Jefferson, Rice, 1954 Higgins, Robert A.; West Virginia, Wesleyan, Washington (Missouri), Penn State, 1954 Holllngbery, Orin E.; Washington State, 1979 Howard, Frank; Clemson, 1989 Ingram, William; William &Mary, Indiana, Navy, California, 1973 Jennings, Morley; Ouachita, Baylor, 1973 Jones, Howard; Syracuse, Yale, Ohio Stale, Iowa, Duke, Southern California, 1951 Jones, Lawrence M.; Army, Louisiana State, Oklahoma, Nebraska, 1954 Jones, Thomas A.D.; Syracuse, Yale, 1958 Jordan, Lloyd Paul; Amherst, Harvard, 1978 Jordan, Ralph; Auburn, 1982 Kerr, Andrew; Stanford, Washington &Jefferson; Colgate, Lebanon Valley, 1951 Leahy, Frank William; Boston College, Notre Dame, 1970 Little, George E.; Cincinnati, Miami (Ohio), Michigan, Wisconsin, 1955 Little, Lou; Georgetown, Columbia, 1960 Madigan, Edward; Saint Mary's, Iowa, 1974 Maurer, Dave; Wittenberg, 1991 McClendon, Charles; Louisiana State, 1986 McCracken, Herbert; Allegheny, Lafayette, 1973 McGugin, Daniel; Vanderbilt, 1951 McKay, John H.; Southern California, 1988 McKeen, Allyn; Memphis Slate, Mississippi State, 1991 McLaughry, Dearmond, Westminster, Amherst, Brown, Dartmouth, 1962 Merritt, John; Jackson Stale, Tennessee State, 1983 Meyer, L.R.; Texas Christian, 1956 Mollenkopf, Kenneth; Purdue, 1988 Moore, Andrew; Chattanooga, 1981 Moore, Bernie; Mercer, Louisiana State, 1954 Morrison, Ray; Southern Methodist, Vanderbilt, Temple, Austin, 1954 Munger, George A.; Pennsylvani.a, 1976 Muon, Clarence; Albright, Syracuse, Michigan State, 1959 Murray, Frank; Marquette, Virginia, 1983 Murray, William; Delaware, Duke, 1974 Mylln, Edward; Bucknell, Lafayette, 1974 Neale, Earle; Muskingurn, West Virginia Wesleyan, Marietta, Washington &Jefferson, Virginia, 1967 Neely, Jess; Southwestern, Clemson, Rice, 1971 Nelson, David M., Hillsdale, Maine, Delaware, 1987 Neyland, Robert; Tennessee, 1956 Norton, Homer; Centenary, Texas A&M, 1971 O'Neill, Frank J.; Colgate, Syracuse, Columbia, 1951 Owen, Bennie; Washburn, Bethany (Kansas), Oklahoma, 1951 Parseghian, Ara Raoul; Miami (Ohio), Northwestern, Notre Dame, 1980 Perry, Ooyt L.; Bowling Green, 1988 Phelan, James; Missouri, Purdue, Washington, Saint Mary's, 1973 Prothro, Tommy; Oregon State, UCLA, 1991 Robinson, E.N.; Nebraska, Brown, 1955 Rockne, Knute K.; Notre Darne, 1951 Romney, E.L.; Utah Stale, 1954 Roper, William W.; Princeton, Missouri, 1951 Royal, Darrell; Mississippi State, Washington, Texas, 1983 Sanford, George Foster; Columbia, Rutgers, 1971 Schmidt, Francis A.T.; Tulsa, Arkansas, Texas Christian, Ohio State, 1971 Schwartzwalder, Benjamin; Muhlenberg, Syracuse, 1982 Shaughnessy, Clark D.; Tulane, Loyola (New Orleans), Chicago, Stanford, Maryland, Pittsburgh, Hawaii, 1968 Shaw, Lawrence; North Carolina State; Nevada-Reno, Santa Clara, California, Air Force, 1972 Smith, Andrew; Pennsylvania, Purdue, California, 1951 Snavely, Carl; Bucknell, North Carolina, Cornell, Washington (Missouri), 1965 Stagg, Amos Alonzo; Springfield, Chicago, Pacific, 1951 Sutherland, John B.; Lafayette, Pittsburgh, 1951 Tatum, James Moore; North Carolina, Oklahoma, Maryland, 1984 Thomas, Frank W.; Chattanooga, Alabama, 1951 Vann, Thad; Southern Mississippi, 1987 Vaught, John Howard; Mississippi, 1979 Wade, Wallace; Alabama, Duke, 1955 Waldorf, Lynn 0.; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma State; Kansas State, Northwestern, California, 1966 Warner, GlennS.; Georgia, Cornell, Carlisle, Pittsburgh, Stanford, Temple, 1951 . Wieman, E.E.; Michigan, Princeton, 1956 Wilce, John W.; Ohio State, 1954 Wilkinson, Charles; Oklahoma, 1969 Williams, Henry L.; Army, Minnesota, 1951 Woodruff, George; Pennsylvania, Illinois, Carlisle, 1963 Woodson, Warren B.; Conway State, Hardin-Simmons, Arizona, New Mexico State, Trinity (Texas), 1989 Yost, Fielding H.; Ohio Wesleyan, Nebraska, Kansas, Stanford, Michigan, 1951 Zuppke, Robert; Illinois, 1951 

ACCENT 
Thursday, March 3, 1994 page9 
Going off the beaten path for break 
Saint Mary's senior to spend break planning her wedding 
By LYNN BAUWENS Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
When Rachel Verdick met Jon Puskas at the Graffiti Dance four years ago, she had no idea that she would be spending her spring break senior year putting the finishing touches on their wedding, but her friend did. 
"As we walked back through the halls of Holy Cross, my friend said, 'You're going to marry him,"' recalled Verdick of the evening she first met her fiance. 
'As we walked back 
through the halls of Holy Cross, my friend said, 'You're going to marry him." 
Rachel Verdick 

While other students on campus look forward to the beach and the sun during spring break, Verdick will be flying home to Oregon to finish the prepara­tions for the May 7 wedding while Puskas stays in South Bend to finalize the plans here. 
"We're going to be addressing invita­tions and getting party favors ready," said Verdick. "He will figure out the music and the last minute details at the church." 
She also has to figure out a way to get her wedding dress from Portland to South Bend. "We're not sure about how to transport it. We'll probably roll it up and put it in a hard suitcase," she said. 
While the storybook romance across Highway 31 seems perfect, they almost did not meet. "He was about to leave (the dance) and his roommate intro­duced us," said Verdick. "He ended up walking me home with his roommate and two other girls." 
They began dating the next week and now plan to be married before gradua­tion. 
Since they are getting married this May, Verdick and Puskas have been busy this semester planning the wedding and reception. 
"I planned a light load (this semester) because I knew it was going to be hec­tic," Verdick explained. "I have only one fmal in an elective class." 
Planning the wedding during senior year has not been easy for Verdick. 
''I'm doing this all by myself because my family is away," she said. "There is so much to do that you don't realize. I've been a stress-case." 
"The dresses and the bridesmaids were more fun. I did it all at home," she said about the plans she organized over the summer. 
While not familiar with the area mer­chants, Verdick has found the Notre Dame community very supportive of the plans. They made use of many campus affiliated businesses hiring Notre Dame Catering for the reception and Michelangelo's for the flowers. 
Verdick and Puskas wanted their friends and classmates from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to be here for the ceremony to be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

"We pretty much knew we wanted that weekend (after finals) because everyone is still in town," she said. 
Puskas had proposed on February 28 of last year and the engaged couple had 
'I'm doing this all by myself 
since my family is away. 
There are so many things to 
do that you don't realize. I've 
been a stress-case.' 
Rachel Verdick 
waited for the day in March when reser­vations opened at the Basilica. 
"We got very lucky," remembered Verdick. "We had ten of our friends call­ing in to reserve a date (for the wed­ding). Luckily, Jon was the second caller." 
Even then, their time preference was already taken by the first caller. They were able to reserve the Basilica of the Sacred Heart for 1 p.m. on May 7. 
As Verdick prepared to leave for Oregon headed for wedding showers and shopping, she remembered her activities on previous spring breaks. 
"Normally, my dad and I plan a trip together to somewhere fun," said Verdick. "This year, we are going to spend a few days in Seattle. It will be the last time that I have to spend with my dad before the wedding." 
When in Rome. • • 
Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students to find art in Italy 
By KARA MASUCCI 
Accent Writer 
Daytona Beach? Cancun? Home? Not for the 45 peo­ple who chose to spend their spring break exploring Italy. 
They are taking part in Father Richard Conyers's "The Splendors of Italy" trip to Europe. Although this trip is open to the public, it is mostly comprised of Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross College students who have spent this year studying the architecture and art work of Italy in Conyers's art encounters class. 
"Since I'm taking art encounters, I've seen lots of slides of the paintings and sculptures, and now I'm excited to see them in person," said Saint Mary's sophomore Kathy Petrovic. 
"Also, my roommate just got back from the Rome program, and she's told me of her experiences. It makes me more excited to know the background information and to know that soon I'll be there," Petrovic added. 
They leave at noon on Friday, March 4, and return on Sunday, March 13. The are filled with tours of historical cities and landscapes of Rome, Florence, and Firenze. They will stop at many famous landmarks including the Parish church of Michelangelo, St. Peter's Basilica, the Academy Gallery and the Cathedral Museum where Michelangelo's unfinished Pieta is located. They will also make stops in some of Conyers's favorite cities like Assisi, San Lorenzo, Bargello and Ravenna. 
"Seventy miles south of Venice is Ravenna. Few peo­ple know about it, but it contains awesome mosaic art from the 'Golden age of Emperor Justinian,'" said Conyers. 
The nights are open for whatever the travelers want to do. "After 4:00 p.m. is when the Italian culture comes alive, I want everyone to enjoy it," stated Conyers. 
"I got to build the tour myself because I wanted to fit the most amount of everything in. Also, since I've stud­ied and taught this material, I'm probably the 
best tour guide," he added. 
The students will be able to view many of the art works that they have studied during this semester. These works include 
Botticelli's Birth of Venus, Da Vinci's Adoration of the Magi and Raphael's Madonna of the Goldfinch. Thanks to Conyers's many trips to Italy , the 
group is also able to see the insides of the Gucci factory. 
"Through close asso­ciates, we have arranged a personal­ized tour through the Gucci factory . This is normally closed to the public," said 
Conyers. This trip allows stu­dents who are not 
able to study overseas during the 
semester a 

Photo courtesy of Brian Archer 
"The Splendours ofItaly" Highlights ofthe Tour 
• 
St. Francis Basilica and the Tomb ofSaint Francis 

• 
Parish church ofMichelangelo 

• 
Medici family church 


• 
Cathedral Museum, location of Michelangelo's unfinished Pieta (pictured at right) 

• 
Medieval Palace 


• 
Academy Gallery, location ofMichelangelo's 


David 
•Gucci 
factory 

•St. 
Peter's Basilica 

•Vatican 
City 

•Sistine 
Chapel 




chance to travel while providing an opportunity to view Michelangelo's four Slaves and David (in Firenze). 
"Because of my major [social work), I am not able to study abroad. This trip gives me the opportunity to travel while I'm still in college," stated Mary Beth Holzl, a Saint Mary's sophomore. 
''I've heard so much about the sights in class. And since I'm in Italian, I'm excited to hear them speak and to eat," added Holzl. 
The trip costs $1099 and that includes the round-trip airfare from Chicago to Leonardo da Vinci Airport in Rome, stays in four-star hotels, breakfast each morn­ing and the admission into the museums. 
"Travelmore [travel agent) got us a really good deal because of the low fares everywhere," said Conyers. 
Although it is too late to sign up to experience this trip, next fall break Conyers will offer a tour of Vienna, Prague and Budapest. 
-
......... 

page 10 The Observer • COLLEGE BASKETBALL Thursday, March 3, 1994 
Arkansas slips past LSU; Wake Forest beats UNC 
Associated Press deal with him. Forest, enabled Duke to clinch of third-ranked Michigan on night, but the game will count 


"He doesn't tighten up, he just the Atlantic Coast Conference Wednesday night. only for NCAA seedings and Twice this year LSU has taken 
lets it fly. There's not a shot he regular-season title for the "It was a great win, but it pride.
Arkansas to the final shot. 
doesn't like." third time in four years. The doesn't mean a whole hell of a Wake Forest is within one Twice the Tigers have lost a It was the 12th time LSU has Blue Devils lead second-place lot unless we take from this game of second-place North heart-stopper. 
had a game in doubt going into North Carolina by two games game an understanding of just Carolina (23-6, 10-5) with one AI Dillard's 3-pointer sent the the final minute, including a with one game to go. exactly why we won," Jackson conference game left for each game into overtime Wednesday 
loss to Kentucky in which the "What more can Grant Hill said. team. 
night and Scotty Thurman's 3­Tigers blew a 31-point, second­do? He did everything tonight," "We need to carry those Wake Forest led 53-40 when 
pointer gave 
half lead. LSU lost 84-83 to Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski things through our final three Childress' shoulder popped out 
top-ranked 
Arkansas in January after miss­said. "Maybe the main thing games" against Indiana, as he grabbed at the ball in the 
Arkansas a 
ing two potential game-win­was to lead us and have poise Northwestern and Iowa. lane on an Eric Montross shot. 
108-105 vic­
ners. against the press.... He's the The slumping Badgers (16-8, A three-point play by Tim Dun­tory. 
"Arkansas has the best team best. What a beautiful player." 7-8 Big Ten), losers of eight of can increased the lead to 16 a 
Thurman 
in the country," LSU coach Dale Hill had 19 points and eight 12 after a promising 11-0 start, minute later before the Tar had 27 points Brown said. "They made some assists, both team highs. The snapped the Wolverines' nine­Heels mounted a comeback. 
to earn the 
impossible shots to pull out the Blue Devils put five players in game winning streak and kept North Carolina went on a 10-0 
Razor backs 
game. I really feel sorry for our double figures, and several of their own slim NCAA tourna­run as Childress watched from 
(23-2, 13-2 
team; they've hung in there and them felt compelled to talk ment hopes alive. the bench with an ice pack on 
Southeastern 
they've never stopped believ­about the team's wonderful bal­Conference-leading Michigan his left shoulder and his team Conference) a share of the SEC ing." ance. Down the stretch, howev­(20-5, 12-3), which hadn't trying to milk the clock. 

regular-season title and the 
The teams traded free throws er, Hill stole the show. played since Feb. 22, shot just
Western Division title outright. 
early in the overtime before "We knew Grant was going to 36 percent compared to the 
"It's a great feeling," said Seniors
Thurman hit a 3-pointer to put take the game in his own Badgers' 54 percent. The 
Dillard, who had eight points in 
Arkansas up 100-97. LSU hands," said forward Antonio Wolverines, who trailed 31-26 
overtime, including two free continued from page 16 
scored six of the next nine Lang. "He's done a great job at halftime, also got outre­
throws for the final points. 
points and then took a 105-103 carrying us all year. He's our bounded 38-31. 
Orlosky, who in addition to"Coach told me, 'Your time is lead on Ceasar's layup with 31 go-to man." 

her on-court performances hascoming, your time is coming.... 
seconds left. Cherokee Parks had 12 points Wake Forest 68, 
managed to post a 3.75 cumu­Stay focused, keep your head But Thurman hit again, for Duke (22-3 overall, 12-3 
No. 5 N. Carolina 61 lative average while majoring
in, and don't let down."' 
putting the Razorbacks up 106-ACC), which has beaten Mary­
Jamie Brandon missed a des­Wake Forest upset North Car­in accounting, has thoroughly
105. Andre Owens missed for land 15 straight times. The enjoyed her senior year, andperation 3-pointer at the buzzer olina Wednesday night, knock­
LSU before Dillard hit two free Blue Devils won their fifth 
for LSU (11-14, 5-10), which ing the fifth-ranked Tar Heels feels the team's season is far
throws with 3 seconds left to straight despite blowing most of 
has lost seven straight games out of the race for the ACC reg­from over.
make it 108-105. Brandon then a 1 0-point second-half lead. 
"This has been a very enjoy­for the first time in Dale ular season title.

missed at the buzzer. Joe Smith had 16 points, 13 able season," said Orlosky. ''I'mBrown's 22 years as coach. Randolph Childress scored 18
No. 2 Duke 73, rebounds and six blocks for 
Clarence Ceasar led the Tigers points despite missing an eight­very excited to be able to play
Maryland (15-10, 7-8), which 
with 33 points and 12 re­Maryland 69 minute stretch of the second my last home game tonight,
has lost three straight and 
and head into the tournament
bounds. When the game is hanging in half with a shoulder injuury as
seven of 10. Johnny Rhodes 
with such a good record." 
Dillard, who finished with 16 the balance and Duke desper­the Demon Deacons posted
also scored 16 for the Terrap­points, was just 3-for-8 from 3-ately needs points, there's re­their third upset of a top-five The soft-spoken Jones, who point range -many of them ally only one option -get the ins. team this season. Wake Forest has averaged 14 points and 5.3Wisconsin 71, 
(19-9, 9-6 Atlantic Coast Con­rebounds in the last four games 
from pro length or beyond. But ball to Grant Hill. 
while hitting 58 percent fromhe hit the one Arkansas needed That's exactly what the sec­No. 3 Michigan 58 ference) also beat Duke twice the floor, voiced a similar sen­
to tie the score 93-all at the end ond-ranked Blue Devils did Wisconsin coach Stu Jackson when the Blue Devils were of regulation. Wednesday night, and the stel­withheld his praise a bit despite ranked second. timent. "My playing well this year has
"Dillard is a funny kid," Ra­lar senior did not let his team­the biggest victory of his college North Carolina's loss, coupled zorbacks coach Nolan Richard­mates down. Hill scored 11 of coaching career. with Duke's four-point win at a lot to do with team chemistry. son said. "He's just going to Duke's final 21 points, and the Michael Finley scored 20 Maryland, clinched the ACC playing with the girls I've been play. He doesn't worry very Blue Devils held on to beat points and used his defense to regular-season title for the sec­able to play with," said Jones. 
"I love them all, and I will miss
much. He'll just shoot and say, Maryland. shut down Jalen Rose as Wis­ond-ranked Blue Devils. 
them."
'The heck with it. If it goes in, it The victory, combined with consin snapped a four-game North Carolina and Duke will Look out, Loyola. 
goes in.' If not, it's not a big North Carolina's loss to Wake losing streak with a 71-58 upset play at Durham on Saturday 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY- anyone interested in singing, play·  ROW ....... ROW ...... ROW  Professional couple seek to adopt a  Boklll  
NOTICES  MENT· fisheries. Many earn $2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­ ing an instrument, or acting in the freshman class mass on April 10,  Have your own rowing machine New Concept II Rowing Ergometer  newborn baby. Will give your child all the opportunities you would want  
$6000+/mo. on fishing vessels.  please contact Brian at x1799  $735 from the factory ...Bul yours for  for him/her, particularly love, guid·  NEED A JOB FOR NEXT YEAR? II!  
USED TEXTBOOKS  Many employers provide benefits.  $650 or B.O. Call4-1507  ance and support. We live in the  Student Activities is now accepting  
Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard  No exp. necessary! For more info  suburbs of an East Coast City. We  applications in all areas:  
' 233-2342/1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun  call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584  Wanted:  are active people who love dogs  Building Managers  
A used car in good condition.  2 Bedroom Turtle Creek Townhome  and children but sadly cannot bear  Sound Techs  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  Need a ride to OCNA area for  Call4-2029.  available for '94-95. Call Lonnie  our own children. Inquiries should  Stepan Managers  
spring break. Will pay gas and  272-5622 or Reggie 4-1480.  be forwarded to Mr. Charles Rice at  Ballroom Monitors  
STILL HAVE rnd. trip plane ticket to MINNEAPOLIS for SPRING BREAK-<Iirty cheap. Jason x1593  tolls. Call Dom at x1460 AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ +  FOR RENT I 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  PERSONALI  219-237-0904. .......................................  Information Desk Attendants Games Roorn Attendants LaFortune Set Up Crew Office Assistants  
TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl  RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1BDRM:  HEY X4022­ Irish Express Clerks  
ILOST&FOUNDI  (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING  $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO. AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPER­ ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn  I HAVE YOUR BIKE LOCK KEY. YOU CAN'T HAVE IT BACK.  Applications available at Student Activities or LaFortune Info Desk.  
AND SUMMER SEASONS  TIES 272-6306  to join our family. Please call Nancy  SUCKITUPI  Deadline for applying is March 4.  
FOUND: Men's watch on Sat. night. It has a dark brown leather  APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP!  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES- and Jerry 1-800-272-5810.  ........................................  
band and a purple face. It was  CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29  ND/SMC EVENTS  
found on the path between the  (219)291-7153  Desperate for ride to FLORIDA for  The List to Beat All Lists  KRISTA'S Quotes from Fall93  
Basilica and Howard. If you lost it,  Spring Break. Orlando Area. Will  SAW-THE TOP 151  'We ought to all come out of the  
call Maureen at 4-2922.  Work in the Wildl Tour guide, dude  pay gas, tolls and buy beer on  closet as a flat  
ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  arrival. Call Matthew x3695  1. We are driving down Mahatma  'He's only 80% all man when KE is  
maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter  SECURITY SYSTEM  Gandhi Road.  through with him  
Gold Loop earring, lost  + volunteer and government posi- ALL APPLIANCES  2. Did you know that 6000 people  'How to sleep 4 in a bed -the Anal  
somewhere between P.E. and  lions available at national parks.  1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS  SUMMER JOBS -ALL  can sit under the Banyan tree?  Way  
Juniper Road.  Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over  232 2595  LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES- 3.Welcerm to Chiner.  'He's so rudel No wonder he  
Aunt Eileen is going to kill me  25,000 openings! Apply now for  TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  4. Any doubts?  doesn't have a wornan  
if I don't get it back.  best positions. For more info call: 1­ SPRING BREAK TIME SHARE  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  5. I just don't like dead body  'Maybe they were afraid she'd be  
206-545-4804  Orlando, Florida  NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­ Ganges water dripped on me.  mistaken for Clinton's daughter  
PLEASE call Tara 4-4836  ext N5584  $700 -sleeps 8  786-8373  6. The Vedas are four in number.  'He's Mr. Musical Chairs  
bars, pools, lake  7. I'm running on 4 hours of sleep  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO OUR  
Need Ride to NYC,North NJ  5 minutes from Disney  and 3 pounds of rice.  FAVORITE SHOPPER!  
Coat left in Career & Placement  for Spr. Break, Easter  call X2348 or X4508  8. If you work hard, you get a  LOVE, FLAT 6  
about1 1/2 weeks ago. Call  $$,Driver Offered #4100  Quality Copies, Quickly.  boner.  
631-5200, ask for Katie.  THE COPY SHOP  9.Naan,naan,Naan,naan.  
Castle Pt. Apt. for Rent  LaFortune Student Center  1 0. See Dick put gas in the tank,  
Calligrapher for wedding invitations  Summer, 94-95 sch yr.  Phone 631-COPY  See Dick smoke a cigarette, see  It's sheep we're up against.  
- LOST: oval-rimmed glasses in a  -pay negotiable.  Fully Applianced, some furnish.  Dick blow up the bus.  
blue case. Small reward -call John  Call4-4507  2 bdrm. 3 rmmates $200.00/mnth  11. How 'bout a Ting Tao  
@ 4-1722.  Call 273-6318  In a hurry...  12. Random Guy  People who grimed themselves to  
don't worry.  13. I hate Tea, Tea is gross.  death.  
- Found: Class ring last summer along AuSable River in Grayling Michigan. Call Mark 517-799-4792. WANTED  ########################### HELP MEIIIII My ride has cancelled and I desparately need a ride to the Washington, D.C. area. I am very flexible about dates and can drive  FOR SALE ......................•............... Want to get to Colorado for Spring Break? I have a one way ticket from  FAX ITI at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center NEW LOWER PRICESI  14. Dony Mahenna 15. The willage is a node on the nexxus of Indian ciwilisation.  If this is Rita ... you must be joking .  
stick/snow. If you are looking for  O'Hare to Denver Stapleton on Sat  Glasnost flowers for your hair.  
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum- someone to help pay gas and tolls,  March 5, 1994 at6:44 p.m. Will  PJ-Hope you can work things out  Yahweh- 
mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­0219  call Sean at 1-8839 or 4-411 0. ###########################  take best offer. ......................................  over break. Good luckll -OINK OINK  Where's my pop tart?? Watch out for that body mice!!  Perestroika my umbrella .  

., 

Thursday, March 3, 1994 The Observer • THE OLYMPICS page 11 
-

Lillehammer games the most-watched Olympics 
By SCOTT WILLIAMS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

About 204 million Americans watched the Winter Olympics, making it the most-watched event in television history and crushing CBS' rivals in the February ratings sweep. 
"On a household basis, 92.5 percent of all American house­holds tuned in," David Poltrack, CBS vice president for research, said Wednesday. "That is also the highest-rated cumulative audience of any event in television history." 
The Lillehammer Games posted the highest average rat­ing, a 27.8, of any Olympics, winter or summer. A ratings point equals 942,000 homes of the 94.2 million TV households in the United States. 
CBS' ratings will equal the combined ratings of ABC and NBC for the monthlong Febru­ary sweep -one of three an­nual periods of audience mea­surement that allows atllliates to set local ad rates. 
According to preliminary Nielsens, CBS averaged a 22.6 rating for all programs -up 36 percent from 1992; ABC averaged an 11.2 rating and NBC a 10.4. 
CBS affiliates saw an imme­diate benefit from the Olympic ratings in the 30-city "people­meter" markets that provide instant, overnight Nielsens: A late news audience increase of 64 percent, Poltrack said. 
Even without the Winter Olympics, CBS won the sweep. In non-Olympic time periods, CBS averaged a 14.7 rating in prime time. ABC had a 12.8 rating and NBC an 11.7. 
CBS also claimed five of the sweep's top 10 regularly scheduled programs, including the No.1, "60 Minutes." 
The Olympics numbers, like the rising tide, lifted other CBS boats as well. The Olympics morning show, featuring the "CBS This Morning" anchors and production team, won their time period for the first time. 
The "CBS Evening News" fm­ished second for the sweep, but won last week's newscast ratings for the frrst time since 1992. 
And "Late Show with David Letterman," which sent Let­terman's mother to Norway to cover the Games, posted its highest daily and weekly rat­ings during the sweep. 
TAR COURT lE MENS HIGH TOP IASKEJIAll SHOE. ILACK/GREY/TEAL TRIM. CO#o\PARf AT $75 OUR REG. $4f.97 
CONS 500 HIGH 
MEHS IASKETIALL SHOE. WHITE, !aLACK. COMPARE AT $55 
-
OUR REG. $4U7 

Questions abound in Harding case 
ByBOBBAUM 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 

Where will the Nancy Kerri­gan assault case be prosecuted, Portland or Detroit? 
That question has gained new significance with a report that Oregon authorities want the case moved to Michigan and Detroit prosecutors say it should stay in Oregon. 
Norm Frink, the Multnomah County chief deputy district at­torney, would not confrrm such a dispute exists, but repeated that discussions continue and no decision has been made on where any further charges will be filed. 
"The bottom line is this: We're talking with Wayne County (Mich.) and we're talk­ing with federal authorities," Frink said Wednesday. 
A grand jury in Portland is considering whether Tonya Harding should be charged for her role in the Jan. 6 attack, which took place at the U.S. Figure Skating Championships in Detroit. The grand jury's fi­nal report is due March 21. 
As for the report that Oregon authorities want the case moved to Detroit, Frink said, "We're not going to comment on any thinking we may have, which may change from time to 
..
time. 
. . . 

Harding was back on the ice Wednesday for the first time since returning from her eighth-place finish in the Olympics. She skated for an hour at a suburban mall rink. 
There was no huge crowd like the ones before the Olympics. A few reporters and photogra­phers were on hand and tried to follow her as she went to a mall department store after the workout. 
"Don't follow me. Just go away," she told them. "You've had your fun." 
Harding wants to compete in the world championships this month in Japan, but the U.S. Figure Skating Association has a hearing scheduled for March 10 in Colorado Springs, Colo., to determine if her association membership should be revoked. Such an action would ban her from the world event. 
The skater denies knowing about the attack ahead of time, but said she learned about it later and failed to alert authori­ties. 
Harding won the national championship in Kerrigan's absence. Kerrigan went on to win a silver medal at the Olympics in Norway. 
Harding's ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly, has pleaded guilty in Oregon to racketeering for his role in the attack. 
Harding's sometimes body­guard Shawn Eckardt, Shane Stant and Derrick Smith have been charged with conspiracy in Oregon and have confessed to participating in the attack. They could be indicted in Port­land or have their cases shifted to Detroit. 
The Detroit Free Press re­ported Wednesday that Oregon authorities believe Detroit is the logical site, since that's where the attack took place. 
On the other hand, Wayne County prosecutor John O'Hair told the newspaper Oregon would be the better place for the trial because that is where the plot was hatched. O'Hair said most of the investigative work had been done there. 
The Free Press said Oregon authorities want the cases tried in Detroit state court because Michigan has broader conspir­acy laws and it could be easier to win a conviction. 
They said Oregon authorities also were concerned that any prosecution of Harding might stir sympathy for her because of the long investigation of "a relatively minor assault." 
In Michigan, a person can be convicted of a crime based sole­ly on testimony of an ac­complice. In Oregon, there must be corroborating evi­dence. 
TRANS AM TRAINER MENS & lADIES JOGGING SHOE. WHITE/ILACK TRIM.
Etonice 
COMPARE AT $-" OUR REG. $34.97 

---~­
··-
----~.---..----.-----~---------­
page 12 

-
The rites of spring resist change 
By HARRYATKINS yet still came back to bat over Associated Press .400. In today's world, Henry Cotto lAKELAND, Fla. 
is released from his Baltimore Many fans come to spring contract and granted permis­training because baseball takes 
sion to sign with the Yomiuri them back to a time when they 
Giants in Japan for a guaran­were safe and people played by 
teed $1 million. the ru1es. They are dreamers, 
"The money today has mostly. changed a lot of things," An­Many of these people cling to 
derson says. "It's hard to be­the belief that Bob Cousy could 
lieve Al Kaline once turned play with Scottie Pippen, that 
down $100,000 because he 
Bobby Layne could beat Joe didn't think he was worth it." Montana, that Babe Ruth could Spring training has changed, take Roger Clemens downtown. 
too. But the changes don't stick So there is plenty for them to 
out as much in Florida. Not to like in the Detroit Tigers' camp 
the dreamers. this spring. 
They look down from the sun­For starters, there is Sparky 
drenched stands of a cozy little Anderson. It seems as though 
ballpark and see what theythis man has been here forever. 
have always seen. Plus, with his white hair, he 
They see players in classic looks like the dreamers. The white uniforms. They see them fact that his hair has been 
stretching like cats in the warm white for 40 years makes no 
sun, jogging across on the ver­difference. 
dant outfield grass. They see The people who sit and soak 
pitchers tossing batting prac­up the sun during workouts at 
tice, white flyballs risingMarchant Stadium are com­
against a blue sky. fortable with Sparky. They are 
And they shout all the time-comfortable with umpires, too. 
honored, worn out phrases. Things that represent order "Hey batter, batter!" and stability. "Hum, babe." They don't see, or won't see, "C'mon ump! Open yourthe changes going on _around 
eyes."them. And who can blame 
They don't care that the lexi­them? 
con of the game has changed. It In the world they remember, 
doesn't matter that control is Ted Williams twice interupted now location, that speed on a his career to serve his country, 
fastball has become velocity, 

Owners making plans for more expansion 
By RONALD BLUM has the empty Florida Associated Press Suncoast Dome, and Phoenix Suns president Jerry
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 

Colangelo has assembled an Baseball owners took a first 
ownership group and obtained step toward additional expan­
financing to build a convert­sion Wednesday by establish­
ible stadium with a roof. ing a committee but made it 
"In and of itself, I don't treat clear that adding teams proba­
it as terribly significant," said bly was years away. 
union head Donald Fehr, who John Harrington of the must agree to any expansion.Boston Red Sox was picked to 
"The last time it took yearshead the panel, which won't 
and years and years and years make its initial report until 
and incredible pressure." this summer. 
Expansion by one team in Most owners say they won't 
each league would create 15­consider expansion until a 
team leagues and force inter­new labor agreement is 
league play. reached with the players, 
Harrington said an option is making it unlikely new teams 
to have one league expand bywould start play until 1998 at 
two teams and have the other the earliest. 
remain at 14. The leagues had "Their charge is to report 
different sizes from 1977 until back to us, hopefully by the 
last year, when the National June meeting," executive 
.. 
League added Denver and council chairman Bud Selig 
Miami . 
said. "But that's not cast in 
stone. It depends on the task 

Harrington also said the fee and how complex it gets." 
for any new franchise would Phoenix and St. Petersburg, 
be larger than the $95 million Fla., are considered the lead­
each paid by the Marlins and ing candidates. St. Petersburg 
Rockies. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applicationsfor the following paid position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Applicants should be looking for a great opportunity to gain 
valuable office and sales experience. Applicants should have 
strong self-motivation, creativity, and an interest in . 
marketing and business. Anyone interested should submit a 1-2 page resume to Eric Lorge by 5 p.m. Tuesday, March 15-th in the advertising office, 3n1 floor LaFortune. For more information, contact Eric at 634-1179 or 631-8840. 
that the old drop pitch is now a slider . 
Yet some things never change. Hope has always been the essence of spring training. And that is as true todl;lY as it ever was. 
"If we can get our ERA down to 4.30, we can contend," Tigers' general manager Joe Klein says. "We just need to be average in pitching." 
Sparky looks forward to win­ning 88-90 games. 
"I think we are better than people make us out to be," he says. "We're not just a bunch of corned beef hash." 
That's the kind of talk that has always dominated spring training. It probably always will. 
And there are other things that don't change. 
Teams will travel by bus to exhibition games. Players will pull muscles. Some over-the-hill pitcher will walk seven batters in 1 1-3 innings. A kid from the 
AP File Photo 

farm system will go 3-for-4 and 
Superstar Cecil Fielder and the Detroit Tigers are a throwback team
be tagged a rookie "phenom." 
that is brimming with confidence as they head into spring training. 
The veterans will grumble about making the road trips. and Lou Whitaker never left. if I do, but 20 is something to The "phenom" will see a big Lance Parrish is back for one shoot for." league curveball and be sent last shot at reviving his career. It certainly has a nice ring to back to Tigertown. Larry Herndon is the batting it. The dreamers would much 
To make the dreamers even coach. rather think about Alan Tram­more comfortable, the Tigers ''I'd like to think I have a shot mell playing 20 years than have several faces around from at playing 20 years in the about collusion settlements. the 1984 team that won the majors," says Trammell, who is They just want baseball. World Series. Alan Trammell starting his 17th. "I don't know Nothing wrong with that. 
Sanderson working to hang on 
ByRICKGANO  nia and San Francisco last sea­ DeLeon is out three to six  
,Associated Press  son. Despite a 4-2 record in 11  weeks with a torn knee liga­ 
games for the Giants, he didn't  ment.  
SARASOTA, Fla.  get an invitation to spring train­ Sanderson signed a minor  
Scott Sanderson once owned a  ing.  league contract with Triple-A 
victory over every team in the  So he kept his suitcase packed  Nashville and reported to  
major leagues. That was before  and his arm ready, throwing  spring training Wednesday.  
expansion.  this winter at an indoor facility  
Now he must add a qualifier:  at Northwestern University.  "I just want to get the ball,  
"Except the Rockies."  have them put it in my hand  
"I had a chance last year. I  His chance came when the  and let me show them what I  
came in in relief and had a  White Sox bullpen was hit by  can do. And let the manage­ 
chance to win against them,"  illness and injury. Scott Radin­ ment here decide where they 
said Sanderson who, at 37, has  sky probably will miss the sea­ want to put me," said Sander­ 
pitched for six teams over 16  son while undergoing treatment  son, who has asked for a  
major league seasons.  for Hodgkin's disease. Jose  chance to be the fifth starter.  
After beating Milwaukee in  
1992, Sanderson became just  
the 1Oth pitcher in major  
league history to defeat all 26  
clubs. He beat the Marlins  
twice last season to make it 27.  
But to get another shot at  
Colorado, he might have to wait  
a while.  
"That record means two  
things. One, you have played  
for a while. And two, it means  
you played for at least two  
teams in each league," said  
Sanderson, who's now trying to  
make his seventh team, the  
Chicago White Sox.  
Sanderson, a starter most of  
his career, pitched for Califor­ 

"T'h . k G d . ,,
1 j tn ra uatton ... 
FOUR FLAGS FARM 
!Bed and !Buak(aj,t 
THE KERNERS RED BUD TRAIL NORTH PHONE BUCHANAN, MI 49107 616-471-5711 
Thursday, March 3, 1994 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL page 13 
He.nning accepts vacant BC post Perles says he's staying 
Associated Press "It's no one player and it's no the Miami Dolphins in 1979 one coach or administrator or before joining the Redskins in 
at Michigan State
BOSTON 

professor that perpetrates and 1981, the Falcons in 1983 and Dan Henning, the former motivates an institution like the Chargers in 1989. 
By JEFF HOLYFIELD Baker, had sent McPherson acoach of the San Diego Charg­BC," he said. "It's the collective Henning is 38-73-1 coaching Associated Press memo saying that Perles should 
ers and Atlanta Falcons, 
efforts of the people that have in the pros -16-32 with the be fired. 
Wednesday was appointed 
gone before along this way." Chargers and 22-41-1 with the EAST LANSING, Mich. 
"I have never seen the memo,coach of Boston College. 
He said there will not be "any Falcons. Coach George Perles said 
nor do I know that one exists,"He succeeds Tom Coughlin, discernible difference" in BC's "I didn't win as a head Wednesday that President M. 
Perles said. "I don't know thatwho on Feb. 21 left Boston style of play, and he will consid­coach," Henning said. "I intend Peter McPherson's new stan­anybody else has seen theCollege to coach the NFL ex­er keeping some of Coughlin's to rectify that here at BC." dards for the Michigan State 
m~mo."
pansion Jacksonville Jaguars. 
assistants. He said of pro football: football program reflect his 
He said he didn't know if
Henning was fired by the 
"I think they've done an out­"There's been a confusion goals and aren't rigged to force 
Baker wanted to fire him
Detroit Lions in December after standing job here of assembling there right now as to whether him out. 
"because it was never said totwo seasons as offensive coor­student athletes," he said. "It's that's a sport or business." "I think what you have here is me."
dinator. 
a heck of a lot more attractive As for returning to a college all the things we've wanted, After going 3-8 and 5-6 in the 
He was head coach of the 
than taking over a program team, he said: "Those are some only they're on paper now," previous two seasons, PerlesChargers from 1989 to 1991 that doesn't have that. I've tried of the most rewarding times for Perles said. 
last year guided the Spartans toand the Falcons from 1983 to that in the past. That's not you to deal with people decid­Perles, heading into his 12th a 6-5 regular season record ­1986. He also was an assistant romantic, I can tell you that." ing on a goal, the steps to get season with the Spartans, said 
including a 17-7 upset of
with the Washington Redskins, 
Henning, 51, began coaching there, and then going out and news reports that he has to 
archrival Michigan -and aNew York Jets and Houston at Florida State in 1968. Since making those steps work and have "an outstanding season" Liberty Bowl berth.
Oilers. then, he has bounced between having the accomplishments as in 1994 or be fired were wrong. That was their seventh post­
Details of Henning's contract college and the pros, moving to a group without worrying about "That is not what the state­season trip in 11 seasons underwith the university were not Virginia Tech in 1971, then to who gets what and how much ment has said from the presi­
Perles, who has a 68-56-4
disclosed. A Lions spokesman the Houston Oilers as quarter­and where am I going next dent," he said, adding that he'd record at Michigan State. Thatsaid Henning is to be paid back and receivers coach in year." be judged on his overall perfor­includes an outright Big Ten ti­through the end of next season. 
1972, then back to Virginia Players said they were mance. 
tle in 1987 and a share of the Henning praised Coughlin and Tech as offensive coordinator in pleased the job was filled. McPherson issued a statement championship in 1990. 
his staff for their accom­
1973 and home to Florida State "The strongest feeling is one about his 1994 expectations for A 18-7 loss to Louisville in the plishments over three years, in 1974. of happiness that there's some­Perles and the team late bowl game gave Michigan State including last season's 41-39 
He returned to the NFL for the one in the big office again," Tuesday. That came after 
its third straight non-winning
upset of then-No. 1 Notre job of quarterback-receivers said Pete Mitchell, a senior All­reports that the school's ath­season, but the team showed a
Dame. 
coach for the Jets in 1976 and American tight end. letic director, Merrily Dean marked improvement. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
A Lenten Spring Break 
Back on campus after Break, we invite everyone to a series of presentations and discussions on the topic "Sexuality and the Notre Dame Student." For three nights, The prayerful season ofLent can take a beating in the official college calendar. 
Sunday, Wednesday, Sunday, March 20, 23, and 27, at 7:00PM, we invite allMany Notre Dame and Saint Mary's undergraduates will depart this weekend to interested parties to the LaFortune Ballroom to hear short presentations by theology spend the third of the six weeks of Lent on the ski slopes ofSteamboat Springs or the profs, dorm rectors, and panels ofstudents, followed by small-group discussions and sun-drenched, st.ran<4.ci.Can<;U.V. and.Key: W~::st•. Oea.dy..no.ne. of.these pla<::es is open-mike conversations on the values, teachings, realities, and struggles involved in exactly famous for its penitential spirit. The over-crowded floor of a Days Inn or living honest, Christian lives of integrated sexuality. Each night will conclude with Howard Johnson double room is not normally associated with pious recollection and shared food, drink, and quiet conversation. It isn't often we get a large group ofmortification. The main ritual action of a Spring Break getaway can become the caring people together to openly talk, teach, and learn about sexuality. Please join usdowning of three aspirins in the morning to kill a headache. 
for any, and hopefully all of these nights, and bring your hopes, questions, and experience. And in the meantime, pray for the success of this effort. 
Yet this doesn't mean that Lent has to be left back at the Dome. Preachers these days tend to talk about Lent as the time to "pay attention." Forty days are highlighted for On the Tuesday of Holy Week, March 29, before everyone goes home for Easter us, with the task ofwatching more closely what is going on in our lives and around celebrations, Campus Ministry will sponsor a campus-wide us in the world. We are to watch our attitudes and our habits, to name our demons outdoor Way of the Cross. With candles and song, a procession will move aroundand our desires. We are called to face ourselves and our world more honestly. Truth the campus, caryying a large wooden cross, and stopping fourteen times tois to be told -so the truth can make us free. This kind of challenge can continue remember the events ofJesus' Passion and Death. At each station a residence hall even in Marguerittaville. 
liturgy group will present a short meditation on Jesus' Way of the Cross and its , revelation of suffering and the struggle for justice in our world today. This evening 
)·

Two topics come to mind which resonate with future Campus Ministry Lenten 
of pilgrimage will begin at the Grotto and finish with quiet Taize-like prayer in the programs. The first is sexuality, and the second is justice. 
Basilica. 

The name of the game at the beach is sex. Everybody can feel it, everybody can see 
All of these events, and all our Lenten experiences, are meant to bring us more
it, the tension, the laughter, the excitement. After months of hooded overcoats and honestly into encounter with our selves and our world. May God meet us in oursnowboots, it's amazing to see all those people with so few clothes on. Hordes of search for honesty, and make us holy and free. 
people come from everywhere, with lots of different ideas ofhow to act and how to treat other people. Some people remind us of ourselves, others seem very different. There's plenty to do, and plenty to think about, maybe especially sex. What is all this energy? How do people treat each other? What do they desire? What are the 
rules ofencounter? Why are some people afraid? How do men treat women? How do women treat men? What is fun? What is bizarre? What else besides beer commercials shapes our expectations and actions? How free are we anyway? The beach is a great place to think. Sex is a great thing to think about. Pay attention. 
Another great topic for a Lenten Spring Break reflection is justice. Plenty of our students go to Appalachia and Washington D.C. to share in hands-on work and shared meditation on this topic. From the lands of poverty and politics they will look at the questions of resources and equitable distribution. They will examine the policies and realities ofeducation and the complicated tasks of empowering the disadvantaged. They will encounter the poor. This same encounter can occur at a fancy resort, if you watch around the edges. 
What kind ofpeople work in the motel? How much money does the maid take home a week? Where did the taxi driver spend the first years of his life? Where does the desk clerk send his kids to school? How far does he travel to find affordable housing? How do paying guests treat the hired help? What attitudes do the tourists reveal in their dealings with the locals? All these questions can cross our personal radar screens. With a little bit of attentiveness, almost any venue becomes a classroom for the issues of justice and equality, as it does with sexuality. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
...... 

WEEKEND PRESIDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. March 5 5:00p.m. Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C. 
.....

Sun. March 6 10:00 a.m. Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Timothy Fitzgerald 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1st Reading Exodus 20: 1-17 2nd Reading 1 Corinthians 1: 22-25 Gospel John 2: 13-25 
-----~~-----------· 
page 14 The Observer • ND BASEBALL Thursday, March 3, 1994 
Irish move towards national prominence under Murphy 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
The following is the fourth article in a five-part series chronicling the history of base­ball at Notre Dame: 
It had been five years since the Notre Dame baseball team had 
N0'11U!DAME a winning season 
BASEBAU when Pat Murphy arrived in the sum­mer of 1987. 
The Irish won 39 

• 
~ 199 4games that first

1891 
TRADrDON season and have 

had over 45 wins every year since then in addition to going to the NCAA tournament three times. 
How did he do it? 
"My motto is that the will to win is not nearly as important as the will to prepare to win. We certainly don't have great talent, but that doesn't mean that we can't be competitive. We just have to work harder and I believe that our kids have worked very hard to accom­plish what they have this sea­son," said Murphy after the 
1988 season. 
These days, he explains the 
continued success in a similar 
way. 
"I think the biggest thing we ·did was make it special to be a 
part of Notre Dame baseball. 
That involved a tremendous 
commitment and a tremendous 
work ethic. I think it's been · 
instilled and now we call it the 
'New Tradition'," said Murphy. 
Murphy and Notre Dame were 
practically a perfect fit. He was 
successful on the collegiate and 
the international level as a 
coach with the Claremont­
Mudd Scripps team and the 
Holland national team, but he 
was a Domer at heart. 
"Call me weird or call me stu­
pid, but my dream was to be 
here at Notre Dame," said 
Murphy. "Everyone who knew 
me and everyone associated 
with me knew that Notre Dame 
encapsulated such a huge part 
of my life. As a kid, I got the 
South Bend Tribune delivered 
to my door." 
If he took a look in the paper 

Photo courtesy ol Notre Dame SID David Sinnes, a freshman All-American in 1990, holds the Notre Dame record for career strikeouts. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports Let's Go Irish! 
Notre Dame Women's Basketball Home Finale! 
Tonight Notre Dame vs. Loyala 7:30pm JACC Arena 
Cheer on the numuer one team in the MCC ae; they flnish at home and head to Indy to play for the MCC Championship and a trip to the NCM tournament. 
these days, Murphy would probably find something about himself because in the last seven years he has made the Notre Dame baseball program competitive with the best in the country. 
One reason for the transfor­mation is the cooperation of the athletic department which gave Murphy, unlike his two prede­cessors, the financial support, the freedom to schedule nation­al opponents and a conference. 
Although Murphy claims that moving the program into the national spotlight was not a recruiting or a scheduling secret, these factors certainly seemed to have played a hand in it. The number of games Notre Dame plays each year has increased in addition to the quality of its opponents. 
In 1988, Murphy opened his Irish coaching career with two games in the fall against the nationally-ranked Miami Hurricanes in what would become the first of three Fall Classics. 
Sweeping both games in front of a crowd of 4,000 people, the Irish proved that they could compete with the best the coun­try had to offer and started a tradition of big-game upsets that continues today. 
Notre Dame finished the 1988 season with a 39-22 record and a 15-game win streak for its best season in almost a decade. Dan Peltier, now a Texas Ranger, became the second­ever Irish All-American. 
The success continued in 1989 as the Irish won a school record 48 games en route to its first national ranking, its first Midwestern Collegiate Conference title and its first NCAA bid in 19 years. 
Although the team was elimi­nated from the tournament after the third game, the season had its share of upsets. Perennial power Texas was defeated 12-9 on their own field and Miami, along with two of its current major league pitch­ers (Alex Fernandez and Jou Grabe), fell 4-2. 
1990 saw the arrival of two freshmen pitchers who had been drafted out of high school by big league teams. Pat Leahy, now in the Florida farm system, was chosen in the 16th round by the Blue Jays and Al Walania was chosen in the 48th round by the Astros. These players became the first in a string of Irish recruits who were offered professional con-

Photo courtesy ol Notre Dame SID Notre Dame head coach Pat Murphy has led the Irish baseball program to a 272-1 00-1 record in his first six years. 
tracts after their senior year in high school in the last five years. 
With the help of Leahy, Walania and another freshman pitching sensation, David Sinnes, the 1990 team posted the fourth highest winning per­centage in the nation with a 46­12 record. However, Evansville bested the Irish in the MCC title game and there was no invita­tion to the NCAA tournament. 
Although it seemed as if Notre Dame had re-established itself in the college baseball world with the big wins, being snubbed for the tournament after winning 25 out of its last 29 games showed that the Irish still were not respected. 
Observers blamed not getting a bid that year on strength of schedule. Murphy was going to make sure it did not happen again and in 1991 the Irish played 28 straight road games before the home opener includ­ing six games against nationally ranked teams. 
In the second to last game in the road trip, Notre Dame beat eventual national champion, Louisiana State, 6-3 as Leahy pitched six perfect innings. The home schedule was not much easier, but the Irish finished the season at 45-16 with a second MCC title. And then the unthinkable: no bid to the tour­nament for the second straight year. 
Once again, it was back to a grueling schedule as the Irish continued to fight for respect. In 1992, Notre Dame opened the season with three tourna­ments and a spring break trip featuring three-game series against ranked Arizona State and Miami. The Irish came away with three tournament crowns and a 2-1 upset of Miami. 
The season only got better as the Irish surged to a 48-15 record and its third MCC title. Even more, the MCC had been granted an automatic bid to the tournament and Notre Dame headed down to the Atlantic Regional in Miami. 
Mter opening the tournament with a loss to South Carolina, the Irish upset Miami 6-3 and eliminated Delaware and South Carolina from the regional to find themselves one game away from the College World Series. A 5-1 loss to Miami ended Notre Dame's best tournament run in 35 years. 
Six players finished the 1992 season with batting averages above .300 and the rest of the team was not too far behind. Heavy hitters Eric Danapilis, Eddie Hartwell, Craig Counsell and Joe Binkiewicz led the team. All but Binkiewicz, who went to medical school, are currently in the minor leagues. 
Pitching was also a strength for the 1992 squad with five pitchers posting more that seven wins, but four of them returned to make the mound an even bigger strength in 1993. 
All eyes were on Chris Michalak, David Sinnes, Tom Price and AI Walania as the 1993 season began and those eyes watched these pitchers lead the Irish to an 11th-place ranking by Collegiate Baseball, its highest ranking ever. 
Once again, Notre Dame found a way to upset the big names beating Arizona State and Wichita State over spring break and continuing the winning ways through the MCC tourna­ment and a fourth title. 
And once again, the Irish bat­tled through the Eastern Regional to the title game beat­ing Mississippi State, Central Florida and Florida State along the way. Just a game away for the second straight year, Notre Dame was defeated 13-3 by Long Beach in the champi­onship game. 
The Notre Dame program has come a long way in the first six years of Murphy's tenure, but there is one more step to take. 
Tomorrow: The Future 

ATTENTION JUNIORS 
interested in the 

Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Tuesday, March 15, 1994 6:30p.m. 101 Law School 
Ifyou are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 

Thursday, March 3, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER GARY LARSON 
WOUW &11EONE PLEASE. TELL 1'1£ 
WHAT THE Bit. DEAL IS WiTH 
8L()f E'/ES? WHY D0£5 EVER'/ 
ONE LOVE. BLUE E'{£S:' IT'5­
:fVST A DVMB E'/E COLOR. IT'S A RECESSIVE IRA IT, FOR PETI.'S S.ftK6. r----.......-' 
/\>JD 'So 1-\E --n>.•E.S lo RuN mE. w'TI-\OUT c'"'E..G"-'N/ 1-\•:s \3.1>-oS.. ... THAT's 1,-.\\\EN I 
'T~<~W f/1"\ 'l)oNUT' 
Ar 'tsm-

CROSSWORD 



ACROSS 35 Ornery sort 58 Chair-back part 37 Packed straw 60 Impulse
1 Old actress Anna May 38 Nest egg, for 61 "I sat in some short poison ivy," 
5 Kiwi soldier ~~"I g~t q._ . -· .... said Tom---:-:­
10 ~t follows the 
company car,'' 64 Cubbyhole
Gospels 
said Tom-

140n-with 65 "Lunch Poems" 
41 Dillydally 
poet

15 Goddess of fate 
42 Peace Corps 

66 Macintosh sign 
16 Miss Loughlin of 
kin

"Full House" 67 A final blow 
44 Chunks in a 

17 ''I'm off to bed," 68 --situation
Greek salad 

said Tom-­
69 Endangered19 Live wire 
45 Unit of force 

goose
46 It sounds like B 

20 Obliterate 
flat 21 Disillusioned by 
48 He's hard to 

DOWN
23Takes in 
find 26 Desert of 50"-Dinka 1 Forks and dinosaur finds Doo" spoons 27 Vicuna relative 2 "Lakme," e.g. 
51 Berate 29Wearaway 3 Horoscope­
54 Sheltered, in a 

related
32 Fella way 4 You can chew on this awhile 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Jack Horner's last words 6 Parisian vote 


7 Sidesteps 24 Tear 40 Carol syllables 54 Twain hero a Mr. Guthrie 43 Fruit created 55 'Hood
25 Blue fellow 9 An Iroquois circa 1904 56 Mimic
28 Cockeyed 10 Search for the 57 Gunslinger's
45 Aquarium star 30 1934 baseball 
unknown? 47-Weems command
M.V.P. 11 "I'll have a 
49 Harrow blade 59 0ne of the 31 Advantage
curac;:ao," said 52 Author Walker Dalys --· Tom-32Met #1? 53 Avian preening 62 Jackie's second 12 The Bee Gees, aid 63 Famous Amy 
33 "The Haj" e.g. 
author 
34 "Gatta run," 13 Speak with 

Get answers to any three clues
one's hands saidTom­
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
36 Lute's kin 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
18 Film short 
22 Actor Benson 39Skiwear 
-

AND COFFEE!!! thursday / (J V S 7 night ~ {=
in the huddle 9pm-? c:=-4 
featuring m (pronounced "slope") 
• 


SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, February 3, 1994 
Men's basketball seniors to exit without fanfare 

By JASON KELLY didn't fall. Associate Spons Editor Irish coach John MacLeod raged at the officials, drawing a 
No retired numbers, no tear­
technical foul that led to De­
ful farewells. 
Paul's game-winning points. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­
No foul. No NCAA Tourna­
ketball class of 1994 will exit as 
ment. 
it entered-without fanfare. 
They returned to the court 
Most of their classmates will 
two nights later and dropped
be somewhere tropical when an decision
18-point to 
they play their final home game 
Evansville. 
Saturday against Dayton. 
That's the class of 1994. 
It won't be the most moving of 
One foul here, one basket 
ceremonies. 
there and this is a different 
The careers of the five depart­
story.
ing seniors have been bitter­
This season the Irish have 
sweet at best. 
beaten Missouri and UCLA and 
Even Monty Williams, the 
scared North Carolina, Duke 
most celebrated member of this 
and Louisville, all legitimate
group, had two years of eligibil­
national championship con­
ity amputated because of a rare 
tenders. 
heart ailment. 
Yet they have lost to Manhat­
Jon and Joe Ross have gotten 
tan, Duquesne, Butler and 
more ridicule than rebounds, 
Loyola (Ill.), which are not even Carl Cozen has been spotty and 
legitimate contenders for a con­

This is a chance for a little revenge after a 70-58 loss to the Ramblers earlier this season. It was one of Notre Dame's worst games of the year. the fourth straight foss before a win over Cal-State Northridge and a near-miss at Duke turned things around. 
It's a very different Irish team now, with the emergence of sophomore Keith Kurowski and junior point guard Lamarr Justice. 
Loyola's leading scorer Kerman Ali injured his foot against the Irish and scored just one point. He will also have a lillie redemption in mind tonight. 
It is the beginning of the end for the Irish seniors, who end their careers Saturday at home against Dayton. 

Brooks Boyer has vanished in 
ference championship. lem for this group. 
the second half of this season. 
Tonight the Irish get a chance It is what holds them together 
They watched a coach resign 
to avenge one of this year's dis­as a group when everyone else 
amid turmoil and another 
appointing losses in a rematch sees only wins and losses. 
struggle to return the program 
at Loyola. They work day in and day out 
to prominence. 
It carries little meaning other regardless of the outcome of 
The last weekend of their 
than a chance for the seniors to the last game. The results may 
sophomore season sums up the 
leave on a positive note. not be evident to the fans, but 
fortunes of this class. 
"We've got five seniors and they recognize and appreciate
In the closing minutes against 
I'm going to be sorry to see each other's dedication. 
DePaul, Boyer drove to the bas­
them leave," MacLeod said. "It's going to be tough leaving ket for what could have been a 
"They will be going as hard as these guys. we love each go-ahead basket. 
they can in their final two out­other," Williams said. "This is 
A Blue Demon player knocked 
ings." our last week of college basket­
him to the floor and the shot 
Effort has never been a prob-ball. We'll be up for it." 
Home finale a mere tune up for 19-6 women's team 
By DYLAN BARMMER McGraw. "They have set the tone for the Sports Writer entire team all season with their leader­ship and court performance." This one is for the seniors. 
While Notre Dame boasts three seniors The Notre Dame women's basketball in its starting lineup, all five will likely team wraps up its season tonight, play­
get significant playing time in the game.ing host to a struggling Loyola team at Forward/center Tootie Jones, point
7:30 at the JACC. 
guard Kara Leary, and shooting guardTonight's game is more about pride Sherri Orlosky will certainly start for the than percentage, and promises to be an Irish, as they have all season, and for­
emotional finale for the five seniors on 
ward Andrea Alexander and center the Notre Dame squad, who will be play­Kristin Knapp seem likely to either start ing on their home floor for the last time 
or get a good deal of time on the court. in their careers. 
Each of the seniors have a different 
While the game is not a must-win sta­story, with each one of them, in true 
tistically for the 19-6 Irish, it would no team fashion, bringing something unique 
doubt be disappointing for the seniors to to the talented team. 
go out on a losing note. There's the gutsy Leary, a one-time 
Chances are good that such a scenario walk-on who has become an established 
will not occur, although the Irish have floor leader for the Irish, dishing off a 
fared better on the road than at home team-high 283 assists in her 100 career 
this season. The Irish, who are 8-4 at games for the Irish. There's the sharp­the JACC this season, are riding a three shooting Orlosky, who has sunk a school game winning streak, with their last loss record 83 three-pointers in her 114­
coming at home against LaSalle on game career. Then there's the hard­
February 17. The Ramblers come into working, blue collar Jones, who has the game 8-17 on the season, with a enjoyed the finest season of her career lowly 3-8 mark in MCC play. this year, contributing underneath the 
The Irish have dominated the series 
boards as well as on the scoreboard. with Loyola, leading 15-3 overall, includ­Those are just the starters. Knapp and ing eight straight victories over the Alexander, while not having enjoyed the 
Ramblers. Add to this history of domi­spotlight as much, have played crucial nance the emotional impact of this roles in the team's success. Alexander is
-game, and the chances of the Irish fin­acknowledged as the finest defensive ishing the regular season with 20 wins player on the team, and brings a tough, overall and 10 in the conference looks aggressive style to the team. Knapp has pretty good. produced well, and is, in the words of "I feel that the seniors are the reason Orlosky, "a strong post player." we're where we are at this point of the season," said head coach Muffet 
see SENIORS I page 10 
Inside SPORTS 




BC Gets Its Man 
Perles to Stay Eyeryone Watched Boston College hires ex­
The figures are in: the NFL head coach Dan 
Michigan State head 

Lillehammer games are Henning as its next head 
coach George Perles says 
the most watched coach. 
he's staying despite Olympics ever.
changes at the school. 
I
r:Q%)
see page 13 see page 11 see page 13 

Lillehammer'94 
• 






