
I 
• MMY'S
' 
I 11 l I I '·I 
Wednesday, November 16, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.53 .. .. THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT M ' 
Plans of service center expand at Saint Mary's 
By ELIZABETH REGAN Saint Mary's Editor 
A general feeling of direction and goodwill emerged last night from a meeting of mem­bers of the Saint Mary's com­munity concerning the future of an expanded service center at the College. 
The group was defined as a Christian community of caring persons committed to living Gospel values concerned about others and willing to communi­cate openly. It is headed by Sister Rose Anne Schultz, vice president for mission at Saint Mary's. 
Schultz organized the meet­ing to clarify the facts, percep­tions, and assumptions sur­rounding the present service organization, Spes Unica Re­source and Volunteer Center (SURV), and the various pro­posals for an expanded center. 
"I fully support the idea for an expanded service center be­cause it is linked so closely with the mission," Schultz said. 
An independent student pro­posal presented to the Board of Governance (BOG) and College President William Hickey last spring called for an expanded service center consisting" of new space, a full time staff prefer­ably including the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and increased con­crete service opportunities for Saint Mary's students. 
The proposal resulted in a 

Life of Fox honored by SMC gift 
By MYRNA MALONEY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Students from Saint Mary's College have given a banner of support to the residents of Lyons Hall as they commemo­rate the life of Mara Fox, the Lyons Hall resident who was killed last November in a hit­and-run crash. 
The banner, sponsored by the Saint Mary's Class of 1996, was displayed in the dining hall last Thursday and Friday for all students to sign before it was presented to representa­

" tives of Lyons Hall last Saturday morning, according to Jen Paluszak, the junior class president. "The idea for the banner came up at a recent class board meeting during the trial of John Rita. As far as we knew, no one from Saint Mary's had done anything for Lyons Hall and we thought it would be nice to let them know we're thinking about them," Paluszak said. "The junior class has also contributed $50 to the Mara Fox Scholarship Fund. Through both of these gifts, we hope to not only remember Mara Fox, but also improve re­lations between Saint Mary's 
see BANNER/ page 4 

meeting last spring between four students involved with the proposal and Hickey. 
"He [Hickey] spoke about the potential for office space," SURV coordinator Leslie McGill said. "He mentioned that he would review the proposal and appoint someone to head it over the summer." 
Hickey appointed Schultz to head the investigation for an expanded service center; how­ever, several parts of the Saint Mary's community must be in­volved in the actual realization of the proposal. Representa­tives from the various segments were present at last night's meeting to develop ways in which to work together most effectively. 
The meeting is the first step in laying out the groundwork for the expanded center. Space needs, the functional differ­ences between the current SURV and the expanded SURV, and the function of the inde­pendent student proposal were addressed. 
"I am concerned that the College needs to make a public commitment to it (the expanded SURV)," said Associate Profes­sor of Religious Studies Joe In­candela. "Service is such a vital part of the College's mis­sion statement. I would like for Saint Mary's students to be as proud of their school as possi­ble. They cannot be proud if we are not living our mission." 


Sensitivity tops discussion 
Forum addresses gender relations 
By NANCY DUNN Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students need to find a way to talk to each other, and to listen to each other without condemn­ing one another. if we ever hope to improve gender rela­tions on campus. 
This was just one of the many points of last night's panel dis­cussion entitled "Are Notre Dame/Saint Mary's women too sensitive? Are Notre Dame men too insensitive?" sponsored by the Women's Resource Center and Student Government. The forum was organized to ad­dress the gender issues that have become hot topics on campus in recent months. 
Student Body President Dave Hungeling began by asking the panel how they would assess the quality of gender relations at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and how they would compare relations here to those at other universities. 
"The focus on weekends is getting drunk and hooking up, which does not foster good re­lations among men and women," said Kelly O'Neil, a resident assistant in Farley. 
"It is not better or worse. It is different," said Ed Delgado, a fourth year graduate student in 

The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

A mind and heart for art 
Patricia Christensen, senior art major at Saint Mary's, busily works on her wearable piece before the art review. 

counseling psychology. Because the event was orga­
"The pain and frustration nized in part as a response to people feel about these ques­the recent controversy regard­tions is profound and severe," ing hall notes and appropriate­said Fr. Joe Ross, rector of ness of events thought to be Morrissey. Relations at Notre degrading to women, the pan­Dame are "struggling," accord­elists discussed what they ing to him. thought such incidents said 
Saint Mary's Student Body about relations on campus. President Noha El-Ganzouri at­"Ideas take on another kind tributed some of the problem to of life when they go into print: the "male-dominated Catholic 
religion." see FORUM/ page 4 
Vecchio named editor of management journal 
By TIMOTHY GREEN News Writer 
Robert Vecchio, the Franklin 
D. Schurz Professor of Man­agement at Notre Dame, has been selected to be editor of the Journal of Management effective 199 5. 
Vecchio said that he was looking forward to the ex­perience: "I am excited about the new position and am quite pleased to have been selected." 
A quarterly publication now in its 20th year, the Journal of Management serves a largely academic audience that is con­cerned with research across a broad range of topics, includ­ing human resources manage­ment, organizational behavior, organization theory, and strategic management. Accor­ding to Vecchio the journal re­cently grown strong and con­tinues to gain recognition. As the new editor. he hopes to " ... maintain the high standards for which the journal has become known." 
As far as his role at Notre Dame is concerned, Vecchio does not foresee many changes, only that he expects to become very busy in the near future. 
"The journal takes in about 350 to 400 new manu-scripts annually, and is also highly selective with something like a 
7.5 percent acceptance rate. So I definitely have my work cut out for me," he said, adding that he will have to work "very efficiently to handle the sizable workload." 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1976, Vecchio has taught undergraduate and graduate business courses in organizational behavior and human resources management. He served as head of the Department of Management and Administrative Sciences from 1983-1990. 
Vecchio graduated from De­Paul University in 1972, and earned his master's and doc­toral degrees from the Univer­sity of Illinois. He is the author of over 150 articles, technical papers, and books, and cur­rently is conducting research on topics such as employee motivation, employee jealousy and envy, job satisfaction. and leadership. 
Vecchio has been a frequent contributor to a variety of aca­demic journals, including Or­ganizational Behavior and Hu­man Decision Processes and the Journal of Applied Psycho!-· ogy. He serves on the editorial review boards of the Academy of Management Review, the Journal of Management, the Journal of Managerial Issues, the International Journal of Or­ganizational Analysis, and the Employee Responsibilities and Rights Journal. 
see VECCHIO/ page 4 



r.--:--~~--:"-:""':"".":".":'.-:.-.:-:-."':".-:---:----------:---:-:-:--:--:.-:.-:-.-:-.-:-.--:.-:.-:-.-:-.~-:---:-:-:--:----:---:--:---~--,---~..,.-------.-. -. ---.-.-•• -,-....,..--,-,-...-r-r-...-r-r--r--.--..-r-...... ...,....,.........,.....,. __ 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



It's time to learn from our mistakes 
The campus was shocked one year ago when one of our family was taken from us, hit by a car on Douglas Road. As most know, a Notre Dame law student named John Rita was indicted for drunk driving and hit-and-run. Most of the community also know that last Tuesday a jury found Rita not guilty of drunk driving and hung on the other count. 
The entire affair was a trying experience, 
especially for those who  
knew Mara well. With  Edward lmbus  
the verdict and a retrial  News Copy Editor  
on hit-and-run unlikely,  
I feel, only two things  

remain to be accomplished: to help and sup­
port those with such immense sadness on 
their faces to cope with their sorrow, and to 
learn from this tragic time to make sure that 
it never happens again. 
Several people and organizations have parts to play in stopping accidents like these: 
• 
The South Bend Police Department is responsible for making sure that their machine to test sobriety is operational and accurate at all time. The lesson here is sim­ple: get the machine repaired, and do so with all possible speed. I wasn't sure Rita was telling the whole truth by admitting to drink­ing three beers that fateful night, but a defec­tive Intoxilizer cannot possibly be expected to give results beyond a reasonable doubt. 

• 
The Notre Dame Security-Police Department, likewise, ought to be reassured that their alcohol detecting device is function­ing, The guilty belong in jail, and those sup­posed to protect us must make sure they can fulfill their mission. 

• 
The Student Government of Notre Dame must broaden and publicize their services. I have been a fan of the designated driver card ever since learning of its existence. Perhaps the idea should be courteously shoved down the throats of the representative bodies of the graduate level groups of students on campus in order to protect the majority group, the undergraduates. They don't need to adopt the card, but they do need to address the issue of graduate students driving drunk, and now. 

• 
The students of Notre Dame must assume the responsibility to not put themselves in the position to drink and drive. How many could possibly have been driving drunk that night? How many were? Could others have been killed, too? It gets harder to think when you drink, so be implored to make the really smart move and plan ahead. 

• 
The South Bend City Council needs to improve the visibility and conditions of Douglas Road. Those driving down that road can hardly see at all, no matter if their blood alcohol content be 0 percent or .4 percent. I cannot say whether or not Mara would have been seen had it been a well-illuminated road, but her white jacket would have had at least some reflection to it. 


It is amazing how much can change in a sin­
gle evening, be it November 11,1993, or November 8, 1994. Only one thing is definite: life is far too precious to be lax in its protec­
tion. We cannot stop tragedies from happen­
ing, but we can stop them from happening 
again. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Gwendolyn Norgle Edward Imbus Dave Tyler  Production Jackie Moser Kira Hutchinson  
Sports Rian Akey  Accent Kym Kilbride Shannon Johnston  
Graphics Zoe Marin  Lab Tech MikeShaf  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, November 16, 1994 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
45 die in Phillipine quake, fearful villagers flee tidal waves 
CALAPAN, Philippines  "We are afraid of the sea," said  
Hundreds of people fled coastal vil­ Francisca Pascua, 48, as she walked  
lages in the central Philippines on  with her four daughters and two grand­ 
Tuesday after an earthquake and tidal  children toward shelters set up in a  
wave killed at least 45 people and  high school gym and on a hilly field  
destroyed more than a hundred homes.  near a hospital.  
Carrying bags of food and clothing on  The quake leveled the bamboo home  
their heads and shoulders, fleeing vil­ of Purina Rosales of Malaylay. When  
lagers walked down tar roads split  the tidal wave struck, she clung to a  
apart by the quake.  coconut tree. Her husband Eduardo  
The early morning quake killed at  and 4-year-old daughter Alesa were  
least 45 people, many as they slept, on  killed.  
the northern coast of Mindoro Island,  "I need you! I need you!" Mrs.  
said Rodolfo Valencia, one of the  Rosales screamed as she knelt in a one­ 
island's two governors. More than 100  room schoolhouse where they and 13  
people were injured, eight people were  other bodies had been placed on bench­ 
missing and as many as 200 homes  es. "Why didn't you use your strength  
were destroyed.  and swim?" she cried to her husband.  
The quake was felt throughout the  The earthquake cut off electricity to  
central and southern Philippines and  most of Mindoro and destroyed many of  
rocked skyscrapers and hotels in  its water mains, Valencia said. Military  
Manila, 75 miles north of the epicenter.  helicopters rushed food, drinking water  
Aftershocks jarred Mindoro all day,  and medical supplies to the island.  
terrifying residents. Most deaths on the  The quake had a preliminary magni­ 
islimd were caused by the 5-foot-tall  tude of 7.1 and was centered six miles  
tidal wave.  AP  north of the island.  

Man convicted of spraying cereal oats 
ST. PAUL 
A businessman was convicted Tuesday of spraying an unapproved pesticide on 19 million bushels of oats Gen­eral Mills used to make Cheerios, Lucky Charms and other popular cereals. A federal court jury found Y. George Roggy guilty of one count of food adulteration, one count of misusing pesticides and 11 counts of mail fraud. Roggy was charged with spraying the oats with the unapproved pesticide Dursban instead of Reldan, an approved but more expensive pesticide. He then pocketed $85,319 in extra profits by billing General Mills for Reldan, according to the grand jury indictment. General Mills said it lost more than $140 million because of the unapproved pesticide. The company halted shipments in June of 50 million boxes of cereal made with the oats. The government said the pesticide 

Beauty queen goes on trial for assault 
LEWISBURG, W.Va. 
Tracy Lippard, a statuesque blonde from Virginia, crowned her successor as Miss Williamsburg and sang two songs on stage. Then, with pistol, butcher knife and lighter fluid, the beauty queen drove 250 miles on an alleged mission to snuff out her romantic rival. The attempt in February was foiled by her target's father, Ed Weikle, a former Secret Service agent who put her in a headlock and wrestled her to the ground, police said. Lippard, a 23-year-old dentist's daughter with a dazzling smile, goes on trial Wednesday on attempted murder charges. Defense attorney Paul Detch says his client is innocent. He refused to elaborate and declined to allow Lippard to be interviewed. Lippard had asked to use the telephone and Weikle offered her a glass of water while they waited for the phone to be free, police said. Weikle led Lippard into the kitchen, where she pulled out the hammer and struck him twice in the head, the prosecutor said. "Although I hadn't been in that situation for 20 years, it didn't take me long to react," said Weikle, 51. "I twirled her around and put her in a headlock." Police, however, said Scott was a "Don Juan" and Lippard his "weekend girlfriend." Lippard and Scott had a "blow-up argument" 11 days before the attack, police said. Lippard faces up to 39 years in prison if convicted of all charges. 
• INDIANA WEATHER 
,=...::.:.::=.:.:..:.:.::c:....:o.::..::.:..:.::.;=:.:-----------, Wednesday, Nov. 16 Accu-Weather* forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
.l>'\r ""'¥' 
OHIO 

q,~,~A.~~ {) ~ £:1 

Showers T-stonns Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V1a AssociBt9d Press GraphlcsNst C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

C11184klc.TW..._,Inc. 
The Accu-Weather<» forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 16. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.........-T" ...&...&.. ~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Waather, Inc. 
Pressure ~ ~ .-'\
H L B E;sJ !Til 0 ~ § ¥ t!..,_,_\ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vii Aaod8ltK1 Ptes6 
Atlanta  65  53  Dallas  67  50  New Orteans 76  59  
Baltimore  54  38  Denver  42  25  NewYork  54  39  
Boston  52  38  Los Angeles 64  45  Philadelphia 57  40  
Chicago  58  37  Miami  84  72  Phoenix  62  45  
Columbus  60  39  Minneapolis 49  33  St. Louis  64  46  



Democrat barely wins governorship 
BALTIMORE 

Parris Glendening won the governor's race by a paper­thin margin Tuesday after a weeklong count of absentee ballots, keeping the Statehouse in Democratic hands and lifting another Kennedy to elective office. His Republican opponent, Ellen Sauerbrey, refused to concede. The 5,405-vote margin amounted to a quarter of 1 percent of the more than 1.4 million votes cast. His lieutenant gov­ernor is Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, the eldest daugh­ter of the late Sen. Robert Kennedy. A lawyer, she ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 1986. Gov. William Donald Schaefer, a Democrat. was barred by law from seeking a third consecutive term. 

In lieu of jail, Indian teens banished 
EVERETT, Wash. 

The two Tlingit Indian teen-agers banished to remote Alaska islands for a 1993 robbery are being transformed by their solitary wilderness experience, a tribal court offi­cial says. Simon Roberts and Adrian Guthrie "have ex­pressed a different type of remorse and regret" since they were banished in early September by a tribal court, wrote Diana Wynne James, whose husband, Rudy James, intervened in the state court case at the request of Indian elders. Wynne James, an administrator of the Indian court, submitted the report last week to Snohomish County Superior Court Judge James Allendoerfer, who could still sentence the youths to prison when they return to his court in March 1996. The teens pleaded guilty last spring to first-degree robbery in a 1993 baseball-bat at­tack on a pizza delivery driver in Everett. The tribal court, which met in the boys' hometown on Alaska's Prince of Wales Island, ordered them banished for 12 to 18 months to separate islands. Earlier, Allendoerfer had agreed to give tribal justice a chance at the urging of Rudy James, though the plan was opposed by some Klawock officials who said banishment was not a Tlingit tradition and who challenged James' authority. Guthrie and James are living in one-room cabins heated with wood-burning stoves. 
Wednesday, November 16, 1994 
• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 
More involvement with homeless planned 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) dis­cussed becoming more involved with South Bend's Center for the Homeless last night. 
The Center for the Homeless is holding a Christmas Lun­cheon on December 1, at which different groups can purchase tables or seats for a fee. 
All funds will go to the Center for the Homeless. Lou Holtz will be featured among the guest speakers at the luncheon. 
RHA discussed purchasing an eight-seat table, and also dis­cussed whether it would be better for the individual resi­dence halls to purchase seats and tables. 
According to RHA member Jennifer Farley, this luncheon represents a good way for the women of Saint Mary's to be­come more involved with the Center. 
Farley continued, "The Cen­ter has been there for six years; Notre Dame rents the building which houses the Center for a dollar a year." 
Despite the close ties with the University, "there are not many Saint Mary's interns for the center," said Farley. "The cen­ter feeds out of Notre Dame, but it does not get as much publicity at Saint Mary's." 
RHA hopes to use the Christ­mas Luncheon fundraiser to in­crease the awareness of the Center for the Homeless on the Saint Mary's campus because, according to Farley, "Saint Mary's should be as much a part of that community as Notre Dame is." 
RHA also discussed the likeli­hood of beginning a recycling program. 
Because South Bend does not offer an accessible recycling program, RHA advisor Colette Shaw suggested that a Saint Mary's student who is also a resident of South Bend person­ally ask Mayor Joe Kernan, mayor of South Bend, when South Bend will begin a recy­cling program. 
Recycling Committee Head Kim Fleming hopes to "get something rolling by Christmas, so a program will be fully implemented by next semes­ter." 
The Recycling Committee is currently researching its op­
. tions outside of South Bend in order to draft a letter of peti­tion "to the best source of fund­ing," according to Fleming. 
RHA is currently organizing activities for Little Sibs week­end, which will be held the first weekend in February. 
Regina Hall will be holding its first SYR on Friday, December 2. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 

lS for 
30 Days 

Unlimited Tanriili%)'
•. iM.N .ii/i""'' .ii!tdtit&waB
• Around the Corner

SUl}StUd}Q i'71~a~~~u~ 
Area's Newest & 
Friendliest Salon 

.__===::::~--=-==--•iiii:i:==============..r LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
• 
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 

• 
TWO BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE 

• 
WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT • 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 232-8256 


Making the big hit 
The student managers recently suited up in their annual game of football at Cartier Field. This kind of tackling was typical of the junior and senior team's (in blue) performance against the sophomore squad. 
Reform for Russian science 
By MARTHA MOYLAN 
News Writer 
The field of scientific educa­tion is undergoing rapid changes in Russia, Helen Kuznetsova. the coordinator of international studies at Perm University in Perm, Russia, told an audience at Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium last night. 
Kuznetsova said the sciences are emphasized at an early age in Russian schools. Classes in chemistry and physics begin as early as fifth grade. Kuznetsova stated that Russia· is proud of her sciences although there are many prob­lems with financial backing. 
Economic problems have caused laboratory and research budgets to nearly vanish, thus causing Russian scientists to leave for other countries to do their research. Despite these problems, however, Kuznetsova claimed to be " ... optimistic that [Russia] will overcome her problems [in science] because of their good system of educa­tion." 

According to Kuznetsova, stu­dents must attend eleven years of school beginning at ages six or seven. After passing exams in chemistry, physics, mathe­matics, literature, foreign lan­guage, and others, students can choose to find a job or contin­ue their education in a techni­cal school or university. 
There are a series of compul­sory exams that must be passed in order to enter any institu­tion of higher learning, but there are no tuition or fees. Students are, however, char­ged with a fee for missing lec­tures. 
Kuznetsova said that about 30 percent of students that graduate from the required school years go on to receive a form of higher education. 
When asked if there was a problem with women in the field of science, Kuznetsova re­sponded, " ... there is no prob­lem with women. The problem is with men." Apparently a smaller number of men enter the sciences because the salaries are so low. 
Kuznetsova stated that life in Russia is "... difficult to describe because it changes every day." 
Kuznetsova spoke in a lecture­entitled "Life and Education in Russia 1994." The talk was sponsored by Saint Mary's Col­lege Center for Academic Inno­vation and the Departments of Chemistry and Physics. 
Faith groups encouraged 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Assistant News Editor 
Sign-ups for Communities NO
will begin November 28 and run through December 20, said Kate Barrett, director of reli­gious education for Campus Ministry, at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting last night. 
Open to all undergraduates, the organization consists of small groups of people who meet once every two weeks to discuss their faith, regardless of whether or not they are Catholic. According to Barrett, Communities NO offers stu­dents the opportunity to meet people as well. 
"We hope that the Communi­ties become places where peo­ple can make good friends and establish relationships with both men and women," she said. Communities NO began in January 1993 with nearly 200 students participating, and 200 more signed up the following year. 
"Small faith communities are becoming more and more of a critical element of the Church across the United States and around the world," the most recent newsletter of the pro-
Oh/ how precious 

gram said. 
Communities NO kicks off ev­ery year with a Rally Day in mid-January. At the Rally Day, participants meet with their groups and have their first community meeting. This year's Rally Day will be held Saturday, January 21, 1995. 
The Communities, usually consisting of 8-10 men and women all of the same class year, meet for about an hour or two weekly. 
The groups are entirely led by the students, who decide meeting times and lead the discussions. 
Be ATeacher Teachers have the power to wake up young minds­to make adifference. Reach for that power. Be ateacher. Be ahero. 
To find out how to become a teacher, call 
1-800-45-TEACH 
fi!l Recruiting New Teochers, Inc. 
~ I t ' o o o ' ' 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, November 16, 1994 
"We were not on a witch said Ross. He challenged peo­
Foru01 Homeless man beaten
hunt. We were making a state­ple to look at themselves and 
continued from page 1 
They set a standard for dis­course," said Ross. "What is particularly degrading is what they say about the collective group, and what they make us believe about ourselves," he added. 
Ross has an understanding with his hall staff and hall council to ensure that com­ments degrading women and homosexuals and comments glorifying the use of alcohol do not appear in print. 
"It takes an effort. I had to say this is not going to hap­pen," he said. 
"It takes being vocal," said O'Neill. "If individuals sit back and laugh at such comments, if they do nothing, then they are not letting people know that there is a problem." 
ft is good to sit back and laugh at yourself, but there is a certain communication and a certain trust among friends that is not shared in wider venues, according to El­Ganzouri. "How can you trust that those people really do not think that way about women?" she said. 
When thinking about gender relations, Delgado said he questioned how to reach out to people who hold these views. "How are we reaching out? How do we get them to partici­pate? Are we pushing them away?" he asked. 
"The miscommunication and misunderstanding is coming from both sides, " added Hun­geling. He pointed to Farley Hall canceling its formal with Carroll Hall as an example of the miscommunication on cam­pus. 
An entire dorm should not be indicted because of the actions of one man, stated a Carroll Hall resident. 
Banner 
continued from page 1 
and Notre Dame. I hope that when students see the banner, they [will) realize that we're all caring, good people, and I be­lieve it's also very important to let each other know, no matter what side of the street you live on, that you care," she con­cluded. 
ment," responded O'Neill. It was not the women of Farley against the men of Carroll, she said. 
A women in the back of the auditorium stood up and con­demned what she felt was turn­ing into an attack on women. 
"To say that there is antago­nism from women because they react negatively is classic rape rhetoric." That rhetoric is say­ing that a woman did some­thing to cause this behavior. The statements are antag­onistic statements and now that women are responding they are being blamed, she added. 
The woman left the audito­rium but her statement sparked a dialogue. 
People began voicing their views questioning the role of the administration and consid­ering possible solutions to the problem. 
Delgado, along with members of the audience, stepped in to turn the discussion away from attacking Carroll. The issue was not the notes but the un­derlying attitudes. 
"I think that what everyone here is missing is we are talk­ing about 'them,' the sexists," said a woman who described herself as a stalking victim. "It is important to watch what we do, watch our words. It is not good guys and bad guys. We need to look internally as well as externally." 
"The point is the thoughts are here," said another woman. 
"There should not be sides. There should be a general pub­lic outcry,'' stated a member of the audience. "Where is the administration?," he asked the panel. 
"I am very infuriated that the administration has not done anything about it," added O'Neill. 
"I hate for us to turn the ad­ministration into the enemy,'' 
Vecchio 
continued from page 1 
The appointment will have a positive effect upon the reputa­tion of the business school. As Vecchio stated, "The position will serve to increase the visibility of the College of Business here at Notre Dame, drawing more attention to the school and enhancing its repu­tation." 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presmts the Greek tragedy 

At Washington Hall Wednesday, 
November 16  H p.m.  
Thursday,  
November 17  H p.m.  
Friday,  .  
November 1 H  H p.m.  
Saturday,  
November 19  H p.m.  
Sunday,  
November 20  2:30 p.m.  

Reserved Seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available Wt·dnesday, Thursday and Sunday. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the ---THE---LaFortune Student Center Ticket Otllce. 
BACCHAE 

MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-H 12H. BY EURIPIDES 
Directed by Gttest Director Bo1111ie Morlfe 

their dorms. "It can sometimes be more of a challenge to deal with things locally," he said. 
mistakenly by police 
Both panelists and audience members made suggestions as By RICHARD COLE from his hospital bed. to how to eradicate the prob­Associated Press Boutwell asked Pinckney and 
lem. his friend to help move a per­SAN FRANCISCO son from one car to the other,
"I think you should go away A homeless man shot while but when Pinckney looked in upset. We rush too fast to say struggling with a crazed gun­the vehicle, he saw only belts we all feel good; we should not 
man shouted a warning to ar­and clips of ammunition.
all feel good," said Delgado. He riving officers, only to be beat­Boutwell ordered him to movesuggested that the faculty can en later by police who mistook it and pulled flut a gun.
be a potential ally. O'Neill suggested that people him for a suspect, he said Pinckney's friend ran. 
utilize The Women's Resource Tuesday. "I struggled with him with the Center. "One officer put his foot on .45 -it hit the ground and 
"A solution is humility. It is my throat -he kept grinding then I started to turn," important to cultivate in our­my face into the concrete," Pinckney said. "I saw the muz­selves and in our friends an said Robert Pinckney, pointing zle of a rifle and that's when he 
ability to listen to and to appre­to about 20 stitches. hit me in the leg." ciate the other," said Ross. "I told him, 'I'm not the sus­Pinckney ducked between two 
Towards the end of the dis­pect, I'm the victim.' They just parked cars only a few feetcussion, Vice President of Stu­told me to shut up.'' from Boutwell.
dent Affairs Patricia O'Hara 
The real gunman, a drifter "He didn't say nothing. Heentered the lecture hall, spark­named Vic Lee Boutwell, was just started shooting off the
ing a renewed interest in an 
killed by police Sunday after a weapons," Pincney said. "I
official response from the 
25-minute shootout during could hear him loading and un­University. 
People threw out a variety of which he killed a police officer loading his weapons. I kept questions before O'Hara about and wounded another police­praying, 'Hey, police, take this the University's view of the in­man, Pinckney and a para­guy out." cidents and of gender relation medic. He fired an estimated He said he tried to warn the on campus in general. 100 rounds from an assault first officer to arrive, James 
"I think there have been re­rifle and three automatic pis­Guelff, who was shot to death. 
sponses to these types of situa­
tols. "I told him, 'Watch out, he's tions," said O'Hara. It is not Pinckney was taken to San got weapons, he's got guns,"University policy to issue press Francisco General Hospital in Pinckney said. 
releases in regards to such sit­
handcuffs where he underwent "Later on 1 could hear thisuations. Instead, the Office of 
surgery. moaning down the street. IStudent Affairs has been work­Officer Howard Weathersby, a guess it was him."
ing with the dorms themselves, 
said O'Hara. police spokesman, said the de­As Pinckney looked out from partment could not comment between the car, he took an­They have addressed the role because the case was under in­other bullet in the arm. 
of hall publications and the vestigation. For a while When the shooting finally importance of setting a proper Sunday, police thought there ended, Pinckney said he tone within the dorm, she said. were two gunmen. screamed for help, but in the 
The administration works 
Pinckney, 35, said he was dark, officers thought he was a programmatically. In order to about to have a beer with a suspect. He was handcuffedimprove this situation, people's friend when he heard shots and pushed face down on thehearts must be changed, said and ran around a corner, pavement, which was strewnO'Hara. 
where he saw Boutwell. with glass. 
"Are we going to channel our "I actually went up and asked The arm wound may haveenergy negatively or are we him if he was OK because I was caused nerve damage andgoing to channel it into what 
we can do?," she asked. hearing pops, pops, and I want­Pinckney needs more surgery ed to know if he was the vic­before it can be determined if tim," Pinckney said Tuesday he'll walk normally. 

-------~--~-~-~~---------­
Wednesday, November 16, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Freighter in Florida. grounded by Gordon 
By EDDIE DOMINGUEZ 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE 

A drenching Tropical Storm Gordon swept the southern tip of Florida on Tuesday, ground­ing a 506-foot freighter just off the beach and killing a preg­nant motorist. 
Gordon moved into the Gulf of Mexico off Key West with 50 mph winds and was expected to slow down for a day or so after dumping up to 8 1/2 inch­es of rain on South Florida. 
The storm knocked out power to 397,000 homes and businesses, but by late after­noon Florida Power & Light said only about 26,000 cus­tomers were still without power. 
At 4 p.m. EST Tuesday, Gor­don was 60 miles northwest of Key West and creeping north­west at 8 mph in the Gulf of Mexico. 
More than 100 people were killed in Haiti, and two each died in Jamaica and Cuba as the deadliest tropical storm of the season spun through the Caribbean. 
In Florida, Elena Quicano, 36, of Hialeah was killed Monday when she was thrown from her vehicle in a three-car collision and run over by a pickup at a traffic light broken by the storm, police said. She was seven months pregnant. 
Between thundershowers Tuesday, the sight of the grounded Turkish freighter Fi­rat just yards from shore in Fort Lauderdale awed tourists and beachgoers. 
"We won't be able to do a whole lot until the weather clears," said Coast Guard spokesman Bill Marks. 
The ship, carrying 2,400 tons of steel, ran aground before dawn with a crew of 29 but didn't appear to be in danger of breaking up in the heavy surf, said Coast Guard Petty Officer David French. 

Broward County employee Stephen Higgins said the three­day storm had caused worse beach erosion than the fast­moving Hurricane Andrew two years ago. 
"This is just chewing it up and taking it offshore," he said. The oceanfront Highway AlA near the grounded ship was lined with sand drifts. 
Farmers have Thanksgiving orders to fill, but heavy rain has left standing water across 60,000 acres in the Homestead area, which supplies about half of the nation's winter vegeta­bles. The wind damaged egg­plant, squash and peppers. 
A damage estimate is days away. 
"The rain is really wreaking havoc," said Kathleen Senobe, Dade County Farm Bureau spokeswoman. 
"The packinghouses are sit­ting pretty empty, waiting for product to come in. We're just not able to get out there and pick." 
REC\!CLE Tt-IE OBSERVER 
David Mamet, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of "Glengarry Glen Ross," "The Verdict," "The Untouchables," and "Speed -the-Plow," is back with what has become the most talked about 
-and argued about -play of the year. Now you can take a seat -and take a side -at 
"A riveting report from the war zone between genders. See OLEANNA!" 
-Jack Kroll, Newsweek 
Wednesday, November 16 
7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium For Tickets Call 219/284-4626 

Gene therapy repairs tissue 
By DANIEL HANEY 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Scientists working on the frontiers of gene therapy have come up with a possible strat­egy for repairing the damage of heart attacks by transforming useless scar tissue into healthy muscle. 
The approach -outlined Tuesday at a meeting of the American Heart Association ­is still untested, but it is one of a dozen or more ways in devel­opment to cure heart trouble by regulating the body's genes. 
Some of these strategies are moving rapidly from lab ani­mals to people. Experts predict some of them will be tried on heart patients within a year or two. 
"There has been tremendous progress in this approach in just two years. The roadblocks that stand in the way have been identified," said Dr. R. Sanders Williams of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. 
More than 40 reports on gene therapy are being presented at this week's heart meeting. 
One of the more creative strategies was outlined by Dr. Laurence Kedes of the Univer­sity of Southern California. About six years ago, scientists discovered a gene called Myo D that can turn almost any cell in the body into a muscle cell. 
Working with dogs and rats, Kedes transferred this gene into the scar tissue that forms when a heart attack kills heart muscle. He found that the gene indeed transformed some of this tissue into muscle cells. 
Whether these cells will actu­ally work like normal heart muscle remains to be seen, however. 
The cells made so far are skeletal muscle, not heart mus­cle, and Kedes is unsure whether it will conduct electric­ity and beat like the muscle it is meant to replace. · 
Until these hurdles can be worked out, Kedes said, "this is far removed from potential human application." 
The form of gene therapy that is probably closest to human 
General Motors vows to fight truck recall 
By MIKE McKESSON 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Rejecting a request from General Motors Corp., the Transportation Department said Tuesday it will go ahead with a public hearing on whether millions of GM pickup trucks should be recalled as fire-prone. 
GM, which has vowed to fight a recall, had asked that the hearing be canceled so that the automaker could take the issue straight to court. 
The Dec. 6 hearing promises to be a public relations disaster for GM, with appearances by families of crash victims and survivors of fiery crashes. 
In a letter Tuesday to GM, the Transportation Department's general counsel said such hear­ings are important to "further inform the department of addi­tional relevant factual and legal matters" before it decides on a recall. 
Transportation Secretary Federico Pena scheduled the 
session last month and declared that 1973-87 GM pickups pre­sent an "unreasonable risk" of fire or explosion in side colli­sions because their gas tanks are mounted outside the frame. He blamed the sidesaddle design for 150 deaths. 
GM insists the trucks are safer than most vehicles on the road. 
Pena has acknowledged that the trucks met federal safety standards, but he said the law requires that they be safe in "real world conditions" as well. 
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has been investigating the trucks since 1992, when consumer groups petitioned for a recall. 
The agency last year asked GM to recall the trucks volun­tarily, but the automaker refused. 
About 9 million of the trucks were built. GM changed the gas-tank design beginning with 1988 models. 
The company believes about 6 million of the 1973-87 pick­ups are still in use. 
On Campus for Thanksgiving Weekend? 
We wel~ome your participation in the community's opening celebratiOn ofthe year-end holidays at South Bend's Century Center. 

Volunteers are needed for a variety of assignments from decorating trees to cashiering to helping children at Teddy Bear Teas. Proceeds benefit the medically underserved of Saint Joseph's Chapin Street Health Center. 
Come join us. We'd love to have you. 
FESTIVAL '94 (219) 232-2121 
use is intended to overcome one of the greatest shortcom­ings of cardiology -the failure of angioplasty. 
More than 300,000 Ameri­cans undergo this procedure annually, which involves inflat­ing a tiny balloon to squeeze open clogged heart arteries. However, the arteries close shut again within a few months in about 40 percent of patients. 
One reason is the body's ten­dency to produce new muscle cells in the spot damaged by the balloon. The new strategy, which doctors say could un­dergo human testing within a year, involves temporarily pro­
. gramming these muscle cells not to divide. Doctors have identified a gene that can turn off muscle cell growth. One strategy is to insert this gene into cold virus­es. The viruses would carry the gene into muscle cells during the angioplasty and keep them from dividing. Other strategies involve in­serting fragments of genes into these cells to attack their con­trol mechanisms. 
Cubans eating cats 
for food 
By LUIS VARELA 
Associated Press 
PONCE, Puerto Rico 

Cuba's economic crisis is so severe that people are reduced to eating cats, the leader of a Cuban animal protection agency says. 
"You won't see cats in gar­dens and is very hard to find stray cats roaming the streets because people are hunting them for human consumption," Nora Garcia, head of the pri­vate Cuban Association for the Protection of Animals, said Monday. 
"The few cats that are left must be placed in cages or locked up inside homes." 
The cat shortage has led to proliferation of rats in the capi­tal city of Havana, causing health problems, Garcia added. 
Garcia traveled from Cuba to attend the 14th Symposium of the Animal Protection Federa­tion held in Ponce, on Puerto Rico's south coast. 
She did not say when cat-eat­ing took off, but travelers to Cub!! say it has emerged within the past year or so. 
In recent years meat con­sumption in Cuba has been in­frequent among most citizens, who rely on a tight government rationin!: system for food. Many Cubans depend on small gardens to try to supplement their bland, potato-based diet. 
The Caribbean nation, which lost its main trading partners with the collapse of the East bloc in 1989, is going through its worst economic crisis since a revolution brought Fidel Castro to power in 1959. 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! 

Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $49.,, now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on NO football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 

L----.:.(:;;;..;21;..;;..
9..:...)6;..;.3..;.4..:~1;..:.7..:..40:-___ J 

---------:-~--------------­
page 6 The Observer· THE APEC AGREEMENT Wednesday, November 16, 1994 

Clinton pledges free trade 
By JEFFREY HOFFMAN 
Associated Press 
Talking free trade is easy, makes good headlines and bears no price tag. Working out the details of market-opening agreements that help boost 
American exports is likely to prove far more diffi­cult. 
President Clinton and Asian lead­


ers, conclud-Clinton ing a summit of the 18-member Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Jakarta, pledged on Tuesday to eliminate all barriers to com­merce among Pacific Rim na­tions by 2020. That would cre­ate the world's largest free­trade area and make NAFT A look puny. 
APEC -a loose grouping of nations ranging from economic behemoths like the United States and Japan to newly in­dustrialized Taiwan to impover­ished Papua New Guinea -ac­counts for 40 percent of the world's population. over half of its $12 trillion economy and more than 40 percent of global trade. 
For the United States, any­thing that expands American access to the region's vibrant markets is a plus. China is growing 10 percent a year and other nations are booming, while the U.S. economy increas­ingly relies on exports for growth. 
"This agreement is good news for the countries of this region and especially good news for the United States and its workers," Clinton said. 
The deal calls on the largest industrial nations to eliminate trade restrictions by 2010 but gives the rest of the region an­other decade to do so. 
While Clinton said the leaders would work on a "detailed ac­tion agenda" for next year's summit in Japan, the agree­ment is so far little more than an expression of good will. It's likely to be many years before 
U.S. workers and businesses see any benefits from Pacific free trade. 
"In practical terms, it doesn't mean anything until there's something more than just a declaration," said Douglas La­mont. a professor of business at Northwestern University. "The devil is in the details." 
It took eight years of con­tentious talks before the 123 nations in the latest round of the General Agreement on Tar­iffs and Trade reached a deal, and they were working from GATT foundations built over more than four decades. The fate of that free-trade accord remains in doubt; it is stuck in Congress. 
Further, with the United States finding it difficult to come to terms with Japan over such small markets as flat glass and locked in a dispute with Tokyo over automobiles, elimi­nating all barriers in all sectors among 18 nations looks like a gargantuan task. 

"Anybody who assumes that what happened in Jakarta will mean fundamental changes soon is making a big leap of faith," said Lawrence Chimerine, managing director of the Economic Strategy Insti­tute, based in Washington. 
"What some of those coun­tries mean by free trade and what we mean is often differ­ent," he said. 
"They don't have any prob­lem restricting investment ... They have all sorts of regula­tions and other barriers to mar­ket access. Even if we were on the same wavelength, they don't always fulfill their promises." 
Still, business representatives hailed the Clinton administra­tion's efforts at the APEC sum­mit for underscoring America's commitment to engagement in Asia and leadership on free trade. 
"We're talking about long­term processes that span decades, not months," said R.K. Morriss, director of inter­national trade policy for the National Association of Manufacturers. 
He added: "We're talking about a lot of countries. Nothing is going to happen overnight." 

The College ofArts and Letters The following courses will fulfill the literature requirement for the College ofArts and Letters. Foreign literature courses in either the language itself or in translation will satisfy the requirement if they are not used as a part of another major or program.  
Classics &: Oriental 3522 COAT 450 Japanese Oassical Theatre 3523 COAT 452 Ideal of Feminine Olinese Lit. 3526 COCG 325 Greek Literature & Stylistics 3534 COCL 325 Latin Literature & Stylistics 3535 COCL 415 Roman Satire 3536 COCL 476 Oass Tradltion Medieval Latin 3542 COCT 426 Latin Oassics in Translation 3543 COCT 460 Greek Tragedy 3546 COSA 401 Grammatical Analysis of Genre 3548 <X>ST 405 Survey of Arabic Lit. in Trans. English 4226 EN"GL 300E Med & Ren Arthurlan Lit 3598 EN"GL 300F Poetry & Subjectivity 3599 EN"GL 300G Novels & Manifestoes 2965 EN"GL 316F Latin-American Images of the US 3601 EN"GL 319 Multicultural Lit. of the SW 2970 EN"GL 319B Lit. of the Frontier 2971 EN"GL 321B Ibsen and After 3602 EN"GL 322B 20th Century British Novel 3603 EN"GL 324 Representation of Single Women 2068 EN"GL 325 Science Fiction 3604 EN"GL 340A Shakespeare & Mythology 3605 EN"GL 372A 20th Century Irish Lit. 3606 EN"GL 379B From Friday to Crusoe 3607 EN"GL390 Lit of the Down & Out 3608 EN"GL 391C Feminist Fiction 3609 EN"GL 393C Contemporary Fiction German &: Russian 3658 GE 471 20th Century Prose & Poetry 3659 GE 474 Contemporary German Novel I 3664 RU 476 20th Century Russian Lit. II (in English) 3656 RU 494 Tolstoy (in English) 3657 RU 496 Seminar: The Brothers Karamazov (in English) Romance Languages: French 2176 ROFR 310Textual Analysis 2447 ROFR 372Readings in French Ut. II 3925 ROFR 426Med!eval Lit.: 1100-1300 3926 ROFR 46419th Century Lit.: Poetry 4320 ROFR 479Reading Surrealism Italian 0327 ROIT 385 Survey of Modem Italian Lit. Spanish 0715 ROSP 238 Introduction Spanish Readings 2408 ROSP 310 Textual Analysis 0176 ROSP 319:01 Survey of Spanish Lit. II (in Spanish) 0637 ROSP 319:02 Survey of Spanish Lit. II (in Spanish) 1177 ROSP 329:01 Survey of Spanish-American Lit. II (in Spanish) 3939 ROSP 329:02 Survey of Spanish-American Lit. II (In Spanish) 3940 ROSP 416 Gender Identity in the Comedia 3941 ROSP 493 Historical Novel in La tin America 2003 ROSP 495 Social Justice & Spanish-American Authors  

liW·!M·t3;•'i=liB3:1 I ·f·Ni·W·I:I iB3: I ltli'll,llljl 13Ft·MI:t·B I I'J.1Ilfl :I if.\'l ij ;13;! ij ij tl 
' PEA PEASOM O£PENOING ON OESTINATIOH I BAEM DAns llENGTN Of STAY 
f..;.SQQ.;.S·l'~CIAS·E 
TOLL J111EI( 1NF011W.TION II. 111(SEI1V.TIONS 
Problems promise payoff, president says 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
JAKARTA, Indonesia 

Defending his immersion in foreign policy as political prob­lems mount at home, President Clinton said Tuesday global challenges have grown faster than he imagined but hold the promise of solid payoffs for Americans. 
The president said the 18-na­tion summit of Asian and Pacific leaders here had result­ed in a "very historic declara­tion" that would produce more 
U.S. high-wage jobs and sales overseas. 
"What we are doing in this agreement is opening the fastest-growing market in the world," Clinton said after the Asia-Pacific Economic Coopera­tion forum pledged "free and open trade" in the economical­ly booming region by the year 2020. 
Wrapping up a three-day stop, Clinton was meeting Wednesday with Indonesian President Suharto to praise his country as an Asian economic success story while raising con­cerns about alleged human rights abuses. 
Clinton said the United States must champion human rights "with both patience and deter­mination, and we will." 
Suharto, at a news confer­ence Tuesday, refused to an­swer a question about his hu­man rights record. 
Students continued a sit-in on the parking lot of the U.S. Em­bassy in protest against In­donesian rule of East Timor. There also was a rowdy de­monstration on the campus of East Timor University in Dili, the provincial capital of East Timor. 
Clinton spent Tuesday in summit talks at the presidential palace at Bogor, surrounded by lush gardens and ponds filled with huge lily pads. Later, he held a news conference at a Jakarta hotel. 
After campaigning on a do­mestic agenda and accusing President Bush of paying too much attention to foreign pol­icy, Clinton stoutly defended his frequent travels overseas. 
Wednesday, November 16, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page? 
Reynolds asks Irish 
Bosnian fighting renewed 
By SNJEZANA VUKIC NATO has launched air
parliament for peace 
Associated Press strikes on Bosnian Serb targets five times because of violations 
By ROBERT BARR program, should be placed in 
SARAJEVO involving U.N.-decreed "safe 
Associated Press jeopardy over misunderstand­Fighting convulsed Bosnia's areas" or attacks on U.N. per­ings surrounding a single judi­northwest pocket Tuesday, sonnel. The alliance wants to 
DUBLIN cial appointment." 

where dug-in government extend its mandate, currentlyPrime Minister Albert troops were trying to ke.ep limited to Bosnia, to cover 
Reynolds pleaded Tuesday for The coalition crisis developed 
Bosnian Serbs from overrun­shelling from Croatian Serb 
his government's life, urging over Reynolds' appointment of ning an internationally pro­land into Bosnia. 
lawmakers not to jeopardize a a conservative, Attorney Gen­
tected safe zone. Risley said NATO and Croat­
historic chance to achieve eral Harry Whelehan, as presi­Fighting also exploded in the ian officials discussed the peace in Northern Ireland. dent of the high court. The Majevica hills in northeastern "immediate extension of close The government's fate will be move angered coalition part­Bosnia, site of a Serb-held TV air support" to Croatian border 
decided Wednesday when ners in the Labor Party, who 
tower, and near Mostar on the areas held by Serbs. Close air Reynolds' coalition partners walked out of a Cabinet meet­southwest front. Serbs claimed support can include air strikes. 
vote on whether to withdraw ing on Friday, leading an gains in both regions, but U.N. "We would like to see NATO from the 2-year-old coalition opposition party to propose a officials said the Muslim-led have the ability to respond bywith the prime minister's Fi­no-confidence vote. 
government army appeared to full means to such (cross-bor­
anna Fail party. If the Labor Party doesn't 
have the upper hand. der) attacks, should they oc­back Reynolds in Wednesday's In the north, Bosnian Serbs cur," Risley said in Sarajevo. 
In a speech to parliament on vote, Ireland could face nation­shelled Tuzla, another so-called Bosnian Serb Gen. Manojlo
Tuesday, Reynolds said the al elections, or a scramble to 
U.N. "safe area," for a second Milovanovic, in charge of the governing coalition should not form a new government with straight day, killing one resi­Bihac assault, shrugged off any 
be allowed to founder after at­other parties. 
dent and wounding three. NATO threat. 
taining the biggest achievement Whelehan was criticized for 
NATO was under pressure to "We are ready for a NATO air in Northern Ireland in a quar­not extraditing a priest charged respond to the fighting in the strike," he told the Vecernje 
.InTuzla, another · 
ter-century -the IRA's Sept. 1 with sexually abusing children. 
Bihac pocket in the northwest Novosti daily in Belgrade, Yu­
government-held safe area,
truce. For seven months, Whelehan's 
and to U.N. accusations that goslavia. "We have already Bosnian Seros killed one resident "I believe the national inter­office took no action on the re­and wounded three.
Serbs in neighboring Croatia prepared a proper response for 
est requires continuity at this quest from Northern Ireland were helping Bosnian Serbs by everyone, including NATO.... I AP 
time," he said in a speech to for the Rev. Brendan Smyth, providing artillery cover. The personally think that the safe U.N. reports said Bosnian Serb the Dail, the lower house of accused of molesting children Serbs deny it. areas no longer exist." forces had regained most of the parliament, broadcast nation­for more than 20 years. 
The mostly-Muslim Bihac According to Bosnian radio, territory taken by government wide on radio and television. 
pocket is sandwiched between 11 people were killed and 26 troops in a recent offensive. 
"In particular, it is my pro­Smyth returned voluntarily to 
Bosnian Serb forces to the wounded in Bosnian govern­Bosnian army sources and 
found conviction that we have Northern Ireland last year, 
south and east and Croatian ment-held territory in Bihac U.N. reports obtained by The 
to give the fragile Northern where he was convicted and is Serb rebels to the north and since Monday. Associated Press on Monday peace process the best possible serving a four-year sentence. 
west. Serbs and government troops indicated government forces chance of permanent consoli­Reynolds admitted that the Croatian government and in the Bihac region were fight­still maintained key defensive 
dation. attorney general's office had NATO officials met Tuesday to ing for control of the Grabez positions.
Reynolds said it would be "a failed badly in not responding 
discuss a possible air response plateau, high ground northeast Alija Izetbegovic, Bosnia's great pity if a government that to the extradition request. But to Croatian Serb interference in of Bihac city. Muslim president, was quotedis achieving rapid economic he said Whelehan was not per­Bosnia's war. Paul Risley, a se­Lt. Col. Tim Spicer, a U.N. by state radio Tuesday as ex­progress, that has achieved the sonally responsible for the fail­nior U.N. spokesman, said spokesman, said close-range pressing confidence his troopsbiggest breakthrough in North­ure and defended Whelehan's NATO should have "full mean­fighting was not spilling off the could hold out. 
ern Ireland in over 25 years, appointment to the senior judi­s" to keep Croatian Serbs in plateau into government-held Rugged terrain stands be­and that has a fine legislative cial post. 
check. territory that has been declared tween the Bosnian Serbs and a safe area by the United Na­Bihac city, which the U.N. Se­tions. curity Council declared a safe 
"It is unclear who actually is area in 1993. 
ahead of the game up there at Seven SA-2 surface-to-air 
the moment," he said. "There's missiles were fired late Monday 
The Notre Dame Science Quarterly 
quite intense fighting going on outside the "safe zone," and ... We can't get close to it." several hit in and around Cazin, 
is interested in publishing student papers dealing with top­
Spicer said there was no indi­north of Bihac, Risley said. cation government forces were There was no word of casual-· ics of current scientific interest. We are looking for well­
retreating, although previous ties. 
documented research presentations that con­
tain some visual aids. If you think you would like 
If you see news happening,
to contribute a piece, be advised that the deadline for sub­
call The Observer 
missions for this semester's issue is Friday, Novem­
631-5323
ber 18. Papers should be in Microsoft Word format. A 
disk and a hard copy may be left in the NDSQ mailbox in the 
Physics Department office (225 NSH) or at the NDSQ of­
fice, 238 NSH. 

Cairo !Rs,visitetf 
A Notre Dame Science Quarterly Staffis being formed. 
All students interested in working closely with our journal 
Economic and Ethical Implications of Expanding Global Population
should leave their name and number with the current editor 
-William Lorie, 631-5757. Also, Juniors in the College of 
Science who wish to put their managerial skills and creativ-
Professor tJJenis .9L (joufet 
ity to work as editors of the NDSQ 
The William and Dorothy O'Neill Professor of Education for Justice
should submit a letter demonstrating their interest and quali­
DepanrnentofEcononrics 
fications for this position to either of the addresses above no 
later than Thesday, November 22. Publication ex-
Wednesday, November 16 
perience a plus but not a requirement. 
7:30pm Keenan Hall Kommons 
Please speak to or leave a message for William at the NDSQ 
All are welcome office if you have any questions about either matter. 







~~----­
. 

. ~~ .. ,,.~.:. ..... 
VIEWPOINT 
.. 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-io-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager john lucas joseph Riley 

Newa Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo F.ditor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom lillig Saint Mary'• Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controllcr ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of cjther institution. lbe news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcmarics, letters and Inside Columns prcsem the views of the authors, and nO£ necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of vatying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Edilor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Letters to a Lonely God' may ask the impossible 

Christian forgiveness and American justice don't mix 
Dear Editor: 
Upon reading Father Robert Griffin's column entitled "Remembering Mara from here to eternity" in Monday's Observer, I felt compelled to re­spond to his illogical sentiments which seem to be held by nu­merous individuals concerning the verdict released by the St. Joseph County Superior Court jury last Tuesday evening. 
Initially, I did feel remorse for John Rita. Although he was re­sponsible for taking the life of 
'Should we free mur­
derers and rapists because their con­sciences are probably haunted by guilt and sor­row?' 
one of my dormmates, I knew that he did not do so intention­ally. I considered how I would have felt if my brother or a close friend was facing the charges that Rita faced. I wasn't sure that his life should be ruined along with Mara's. After attending the trial howev­er, I have come to some real­izations as to the injustices of our legal system. 
Father Griffin suggests that we should forgive John Rita and join him in his feelings of glee and light-heartedness at the jury's decision. While I fully support the Christian belief in forgiveness, we obviously can­not base our judicial system on this principle. Should we free murderers and rapists because their consciences are probably haunted by guilt and sorrow? 
Maybe it's not right or Christian to imprison human beings behind bars for their wrong-doings, but right now that is the best solution that our judicial system has to offer. The plain truth is that crimes which lead to minimal conse­quences for the perpetrator will continue to occur. Specifically, if drunk drivers continue to go unpunished, we will ceaselessly lose priceless human lives because of their carelessness. 
Mara was one of the most beautiful and vivacious persons that I have ever encountered. She enriched and influenced many lives during her 18 years, but she had the potential to do a great deal more. Father Griffin, however, finds that Rita is the poor underdog in this tragedy and suggests that Mara may have died as a result of her own sins. These presump­tions are distorted 
Should we follow Griffin's advice and "let the lad get on with his life as a lawyer?" After all, he'll be a fine addition to our already obscured system of justice. Griffin says that we must embrace this selfish man as a member of the Notre Dame family. If John Rita represents what the Notre Dame family is about, then I don't think I want to be a part of it. 
LISA NOVAK 
Sophomore 
Lyons Hall 


Dear Editor: 
After reading Father Griffin's column "Letters to a Lonely God," we agree with his point that it is important for the Notre Dame community to offer forgiveness to John Rita. However, we are disappointed that Father Griffin fails to acknowledge that John Rita needs to take responsibility for his actions. 
John Rita testified under oath that all he recalls saying as he sat on his bed after the accident was that whatever happened, he was going to take responsi­bility. Ironically, thus far, John Rita has blamed everyone but himself: the darkness, the weather, the oncoming head­lights, and even Mara and her friends for trying to walk on the side of the road. 
There were two decisions made that night-Mara and her friends decided to walk to cam­pus after waiting two hours for a taxi cab and John Rita decid­ed to drive after allegedly con­suming three beers and one shot of liquor. 
Father Gritrm goes on to state that, for all he knows, Mara died not due to any responsibil­ity on the part of John Rita, but "for her sins." While this is an easy way to justify the verdict, it involves a frightening theolo­gy and is not very comforting to her friends and family. Is Father Griffin writing to a Lonely God or a vengeful one? Should this defense be admissi­ble in court, too? 
As students affected by Mara's death, we are willing and trying to forgive John Rita with or without a guilty verdict. However, this process takes time. The support of the Notre Dame community has been overwhelming, as anyone who attended the Fun Run to aid the Mara Fox Scholarship Fund would agree. 
KATIE REDDING 
MOLLY O'SHAUGHNESSY 
Sophomores 
SUZANNA ADAMS 
Junior 
Lyons Hall 


, 
...... 

1 
j j 
I 
j

ACC6NT ~ I j 
Wednesday, November 16, 1994 page9 
Oleanna brings alumna home 
By PAITI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
She is talented. She is brilliant. Today. she is a successful producer. But not so long ago, she was in our shoes. She was just like us -a Saint Mary's College student majoring in Christian Culture and minoring in English. But now she is back. Now, she is a revered producer and another suc­cess story of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
She is Peggy Hill Rosenkranz, produc­er of tonight's production of Oleanna. Rosenkranz, class of 1961, said that Saint Mary's instilled in her a new confi­dence, after coming to the college from a underprivileged background at the age of 17. 
Her father, with whom Rosenkranz was especially close, passed away when · photo c:oun.sy of Saint Mary's Public Rei lons 
she was 12 years-old. Her mother Monica Koskey as Carol and Jim Frangione as John, will appear in the controversial and socially important production of Oleanna tonight struggled to make ends meet. at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Rosenkranz rose above her difficult eco­nomic situation and earned a scholar­ship to Saint Mary's. The students were "warm, welcoming, and supporting," Rosenkranz said. 
A boost of confidence came from the academic experience Rosenkranz received at Saint Mary's. She said that she felt "well educated" with a major The college fr~shm@ J:il'iltgs her.mifl:
that is now comparable to today's 
,...,,,_.. , .."'... professor up on severe chargesHumanistic Studies program. She felt 
harassmel1t;,;!ijow~yer; ~m her
that her major enabled her to partici­
lact~usantlns. really founded~ils she over-
pate in conversations of all kinds on !re:a.ct.mg t() a dem g J)t:ofessor? ()r campus and at home. 
as he, using her al grade. reallyDuring her years at Saint Mary's, 
tried to take advantagi;l of her?
Rosenkranz loved the theatre, but she 
The tro~le is ~bat ~ll t}l~ take.~ placJ;J.
pursued a different career instead. 
stage,· and by the end pf the. story, 
Rosenkranz attended the Fordham 
the audience is notsure which side to
School of Law and worked as a lawyer take, ·· .
· ·· 
for several years. 
She retired upon the birth of her first child at which time she became active in producing. One of the groups with which Rosenkranz volunteered, the Cultural Commission of Southampton, decided to produce the revival of "Tally's Folly," and the rest is history. 
"No one can be a producer who is faint of heart," Rosenkranz said. 
What draws her to producing the 
types of plays for which she is noted? 
Controversial and puzzling per­
formances. "If the play is important, 
then it should live," she said. 
If Rosenkranz sees a type of play that she can bring to life, only then does she attempt to produce it. This is why she is not especially drawn to light comedies. She tends to focus on critical or contro­versial topics. 
What is her favorite part of produc­
ing? She likes choosing a project and 
doing the groundwork and making the then do it," she said. Rosenkranze said hobby and later they can pursue it fur­duction of Oleanna. 
decisions. She enjoys "focusing on some that if students are passionate about ther. Rosenkranz said that she was glad to 
wonderful play" and saying "I believe in their goal, then they should pursue it. Rosenkranz gives this same advice to return to Saint Mary's. One of her clos­
this," then tackling it. her two grown children: Nicholas is cur­est college friends is flying in from 
So what are those of us with secret or Otherwise. students should choose a rently a 23 year-old Yale graduate California to see the production. 
even prominent ambitions like more direct and functional career path working in New York. Stephanie, an 18 The Shannon Executive Scholar 
Rosenkranz to do? What should we do and pursue their talents or hobbies on year-old sophomore at Kenyon College, Program brings back to campus out­
at this point in our lives? "If you're the side. Rosenkranz suggested. is studying English. standing alumnae who have made a 
absolutely driven to do a specific thing, Perhaps the time will make students Tonight, Rosenkranz will be available name for themselves in their respective 
grow deeper in their interest for their to talk with the audience after the pro-fields. Rosenkranz is one such nominee. 

David Harris featured artist at 'Sophomore Sip' 
-
ByPAITICARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
A steaming cup of coffee, the music of David Harris, and good friends in a relaxing atmosphere. Does this sound like an ideal study break? Then take advantage of the fea­tured events tonight at Dalloway's Coffee House on the Saint Mary's campus. 
"There is something for ev­eryone tonight at Dalloway's," comments coffee house co­manager Jen Doyle. The Saint Mary's Student Activity Board (SAB) presents the music of singer, songwriter and acoustic guitarist, David Harris, tonight at 9 p.m. 
"Harris is a talented musician who performs at over fifty col­leges around the nation per semester," said Dallas Hunt, Saint Mary's SAB Sales and Promotion Chairperson. 
"His music expresses a lot of feeling, and it is very relaxing," Hunt said. "The fact that he has received so many excellent r'at­ings from other colleges leads us to believe that tonight's per­formance will be outstanding." 
Harris likes to have lights and a stage, but he can do without all of the glamour, 

Hunt explained. 
H.arris will be performing a few songs from his latest CD entitled, The Sweetheart Collection, tonight at Dalloway's. SAB is not charg­ing students for entrance into the performance in order to help everyone save a little cash. 
Sophomores, especially, will be able to save tonight at Dalloway's. The Saint Mary's Sophomore Class is sponsoring "The Sophomore Sip" tonight at the coffee house. Sophomore students from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are entitled to one dollar off the purchase of a second drink, after buying the first one at regular price with the coupon in today's Observer. 
The Saint Mary's Sophomore Board came up with the idea several weeks ago and has been planning for the event ever since. "The board hopes to improve campus relations by providing an opportunity for sophomore students from both campuses to come together in a social atmosphere," said Sophomore Class Board Chairperson Kelly Cook. "We hope to plan more events like this in the future, too," she added. 
SURV (Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer) will also par­take in the evening at Dalloway's. Tonight, SURV is accepting canned goods and clothing donations at the coffee house. The organization will supply the underprivileged members of the South Bend community with these items, according to Doyle. 
SAB, the Saint Mary's Sophomore class, SURV, and Dalloway's will combine their "We're especially happy that we can provide the sophomores at both schools with a relaxing study break that might ulti­mately promote class unity," said Saint Mary's Sophomore Class President Laura Loh. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 16, 1994 
Petrucelli 
continued from page 16 
a legitimate chance of acheiv­ing their season-long goal of winning a national champi­onship. 
"We're excited," Petrucelli said, "but we're not going there just to go. I'm one-hundred percent sure that if you asked anyone on the team that they would tell you their goal has not been accomplished yet-to win an NCAA championship." 
Notre Dame opens semifinal play on Friday against tourna­ment host Portland. The Irish downed the pilots 2-1 earlier this season, rallying from a one-goal first-half deficit. 

Petrucelli has mixed thoughts about a rematch with Portland on their home field. 
"Playing Portland at Portland will be tough," he said. "They have great crowds and we're going into a hostile environ­ment." 
"But we've been on [Portland's] Merlo Field before, and been successful there. 
If Notre Dame manages to overcome the home crowd and the Pilots, the winner of the Connecticut-North Carolina semi-final will be waiting. Despite his team's No. 1 rank­ing and top tournament seed, Petrucelli gives the second­ranked Tar Heels the designa­tion of tournament favorite. 
"North Carolina has had the most tournament experience," he said. "If there is a big dif­ference in talent, then experi­ence doesn't mean that much. But if the talent is even, then the experience is more of an advantage." 
The Irish swapped No. 1 and No. 2 rankings late this season. The two teams played to a 0-0 overtime tie early in the season, but North Carolina dropped a 3-2 match to Duke while the Irish remained undefeated. 
"Playing teams that we've been successful against gives us confidence," Petrucelli said. 
And if the Irish can turn that confidence into a national championship, nothing would make Petrucelli happier. 
Unless someone shows him a good Italian restaurant in Portland. 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

Tiger streak taboo topic 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press 

AUBURN, Ala. 
Auburn is downright touchy when anyone raises the subject of its defunct winning streak. 
"Have we lost a game?'' de­fensive end Gary Walker asked with an icy glare. "Has any­body been able to beat us?" 
OK, it's true the sixth-ranked Tigers haven't lost a game in two years. Walker seemed pleased with himself. 
"All right then," he said with a sly grin. "We're still win­ning." 
If it ain't over 'til it's over, the fact is: Auburn's 20-game win­ning streak is over. It ended last Saturday night with a stun­
ning  23-23  tie  against  a  
mediocre Georgia team.  
When Walker wasn't in  a  

state of denial, it quickly be­came apparent he was still ran­kled by the way the Tigers let the game slip away, blowing a two-touchdown lead in the sec­ond half and then missing a 44­yard field goal that would have won it in the final seconds. 
"We had them down and we should have kept them down." 
The ObseiVer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and at 309 Haggar College Center from 9-11 MWF or 2:30
Classifieds -4:30 TTh Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Need an used 35:70 AF lens  Need A. F. Tix-stu or GAs  2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235-3394  Hey FART GIRLII  
NOTICES  Minella Maxxum preferred Call1-8245  Mark 289-6988  2 STUDENT AIR FORCE TIX  YOU WILL BE VISITED BY THREE SPIRITS"  Orlando Odyssey Offerings  
Need 3 Air Forca Stu. Tix  FOR SALE CALL X4054  1. Athens, TN  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS  TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK  Blll271-9471  Need ride for 2 to Cleveland area  2. The chief and rice krispy treats •  
1~ m-sat pandora's books  '951 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA,  I need Air Force GA's and Stud Tix.  for TG Break. 5 mins. off 80/90. call  the tradition continues  
NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat  ATTENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF­ *******-** PLEASE HELP!********'*  Please call Greg@ 1620  Jill x2735  3. The SWAMP-only the Gators  
233-2342 cool stuff cool store  MOTIVATED Students. The  I NEED 2 AIR FORCE TICKETS  come out alive  
ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is  CALL CHRISSY x3098 -THANKS  $$$$Help. I need Air Force Tickets.  Did you steal, borrow or accidental­ 4. The great debate-Stenstrom vs.  
Anybody need a ride to St. Louis for  currently Interviewing students for  Please call Gina at277-0740.$$$  ly take my favorite green shirt from  Mirer  
Thanksgiving? I'm leaving  Summer '95 management posi­ the Holy Cross laundry room?  5. Woody the Locksmith  
Wednesday (11/23) at2pm. If inter­ tions. Eam money in excess of  I NEED AF GA's  NEED 2 AirForce GA's KATE  Please please PLEASE return it  6. The Dollhouse -I know you guys  
ested, call Alex at X3946.  $10,000. Call now, 1-800-477-1001  Call Brian 4-1861  x4898  soon --my dad hadn't noticed it  went  
for a campus representative.  was missing and I'd like to give It  7. Kleptomania running wild -if it  
The CLIENT  I need 2, 3 or 5 AF GAs  Need Air Force tlx  back to him overThanksgivlng.  ain't nailed down, It's mine  
8/10:30 Friday/Saturday  Rob x1816  call Chris x3767  Call 4308 or return it to room 115  8. Teacups= At least a six of  
Cushing Auditorium  I NEED A RIDE TO MIDWAY APT  SOON. No questions asked. Thxl  Michael Shea's  
by SUB  11/23 for 5:15 flight-can you help?  I NEED 1 AF stud or GA  Need 2 Air Force GAs  9. We lost, I'm in a bad mood  
'"PLEASE CALL BRIAN x1058'"  KERRY 4879  call Pat x2213  HELP! I need a ride-DC to  10. Whatever I forgot  
HITCH THE SKIES WITH  NO Sun, Nov 27-will drive, help  
AIRHITCH  $ HELP! Need Air Force GA's $  ********Need 1 AF GA***••••**  w/ $ call Laura 44669  
Carrib/Mex $189 RIT Europe $229,  SAAB TO SEATTLE.  call x3882  call Chad 289-9050  FUNK UPON A TIME, THERE  
Coast to Coast $129. Call for FREE  Need driver of car anytime. Call  Ask For Miss Debartolo  Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  EXISTED TRUE SONS AND  
program description 800-326-2009  234-0849.  Need stud or GA AF tickets  Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  DAUGHTERS OF THE RENAIS­ 
I NEED 2 AF GAs OR STUD TIXI  Anne 271-9669  1 (800)359-9808  SANCE, (JUST NOT AS SKILLED),  
BATMAN 8/10:30 Thursday  FOR RENT  CALL LISA 272-6460  Need 1 Air Force stud. ticket, call  MOM'S WORST NIGHTMARE  WHO ESPOUSED REAL CATHOLIC VALUES SUCH AS  
LaFortune Montgomery Theatre  Help!  x3650.  COMES TRUE:  PREMARITAL SEX IS WRONG  
by SUB  WANTED: LAW/MBA/GRAD  I need one Air Force student ticket  You're going to be laughing with  BECAUSE PETTING IS FUN, PAC  
STUDENT TO SHARE  or GA for my sister. Call Brian at  your mouth full ...  MAN WAS A RACIST THAT LIVED  
Christmas cash? We buy used Air  FURNISHED APT FOR SPRING  277-5720  NEED AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL  SUB presents the dessert theatre:  IN MISHAWAKAWAKAWAKAWA­ 
Jordans 85-91 editions and late  SEMESTER.  JOE AT 4-2712.  "PLAY IT AGAIN, SAM!"  KA, AND THAT ALL LIVE MUSIC  
70's & early 80's NIKE running  CALL 273-6418 FOR MORE INFO.  NEED STUD OR GA TIX FOR AF.  a Woody Allen play about one  IS HONEST AND UNIVERSAL.  
shoes, pay up to $2001 1-800-873­ CALL KEVIN 289-0714.  2 A. F. GAs 4 sale x2264  man's desire to be just like  THESE TRUE CITIZENS OF THE  
3538 ext. 3  Looking for a mule I female room­ Humphrey Bogart ...  UNIVERSE ARE STILL KNOWN  
ILOST & FOUND I  mate at Castle Point. $ 280/mo + all utilities, with cable TV, until may of '95  NEED 2 AF GA's. Chris x3407 I NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR AF. CALL BARB AT 257-2800 (WORK) UNTIL4 PM.;  Come enjoy YUMMY desserts and a WACKY performance on Nov. 16 at 8 PM in LaFortune Ballroom  FOR GROOVIN' IT, MOVIN' IT, SHAKIN AND BAKIN TO THE GROOVES OF SHELBY'S BIG  
call272-1663  288-9750  271-9565 (HOME)  (doors open at 7:30). Tickets only  BAD BASS GUITAR. THEIR  
Lost: Favorite green fuzzy flannel  AFTER6PM.  $5; available at LaFort Info Desk or  SOUND IS DESCRIBED BY THE  
In HC laundry room. Return to room  Zepfest House '95-96. Free maid  HELP!  at the door.  RHYTHM MASTER OF CON­ 
115 or call x4308. No questions, I  serv., sand V-ball ct.,6-bedrm.  I Need 1 Air Force GAl  GRESS, STIX MARONEY, AS,  
promise. :)  273-0482 234-3831  Call Liz at x4541  I HAVE AIR FORCE STUD TIX  Driving to NJ for Thanksgiving? I  "KINDA G-FUNK WITH A GANG­ 
4 SALE MICHELE 284-5326  need a ride. Will help w/expenses.  STER TWIST; YET, TURIN AND  
found-outside of Hesburgh about  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  AIR FORCE St. Tix For Sale  Elaine x2328  BURNIN TO BOURGEOIS FUNK  
a week ago, a woman's tennis  FALL 95. 272-6306  271-1774  AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA  WITH A CAUCASIAN TWIST OF  
bracelet. call 634-3918.  6  Need ride to Colombus, OH for  EXTEMPORANEOUS AMA­ 
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL­ USC tickets for sale  For Sale  thanksgiving. Will help pay exp.  TEURISM." AS DISTANT RELA­ 
Lost a Casio calculator In a metal  ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES  Call Jen x2338  AAAAA6AA6AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA  X4652  TIVES OF THE MOTHERSHIP  
panel! box on Saturday (12 Nov).  272-6306'  6  CONNECTION, THESE FIVE  
My name Is written on the box and  Need 2 AF tix for my brothers. Call  Air Force STUD  2 SMC juniors in need of 2 NO gen­ BROTHERS OF THE BLUES, AND  
on the back of the calculator.  UPSTAIRS APT., 3 LG. BR. ,  Seth@ x2174  66MMMMMMMMMMM.M  tlemen to accompany them to choir  ONE FREAKOID CRAZOID  
Reward. Contact Kris Rianto  KITCHEN, BATHROOM. ALL UTIL­ 6  SYR this Sat. evening. Interested  DAUGHTER OF THE REVOLU­ 
x-1868  ITIES INCLUDED. PRIVATE  ... I need 1 to 3 GA's for AF  272-5622  bachelors call Mouse @284-4290  TION, SPELL RELIEF, "C-L-U-B­ 
PARKING & ENTRANCE. 4-5-6  Please call Jerry 271-2956  66666666666666666666666666  or Penguin @284-4291  23." THE SHIP HAS LANDED,  
LOSTII!  STUDENTS OK. $500/MO. + $500  AND WILL BE UNLOADING  
Notre Dame medium size male  DEPOSIT. CALL DOUG MILLIKEN  Will Pay Big Bucks for Slovakia  HEY! WANT MONEY?(for gas)  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17 AT A  
class ring with green stone, antique  288-7319 ANYTIME, 1517 1/2  tix. Desperate for 10 tixl!! Call  Need Air Force GAs  ENTERT AINMENT?(conversation)  SMOKY PLACE THAT HAS DEFI­ 
style and Initials R.E.A.P. on the  LWW, NEXT DOOR TO VITO'S  Sean 1176 or Timbo 1159.  2 or 4 together  HELP?(w/driving.. even stick.)  NITELY NEVER SEEN SUNSHINE.  
inside. If found please send to 421  BARBER SHOP.  X3300 or X3309  Need ride to  IRISH BROTHERS SISTERS ,  
Flanner.  Need 4 AF GAs  Williamsport/Danville/Scranton, PA  COME SHAKE YOUR DEMONS  
NO QUESTIONS ASKED!! I  FOR SALE  ChadX3368  Katie needs 1 Air Force GA for a wannabe Domer from California  area(via 1-80) for Thanksgiving, CALL SUE x1674  OUT TO THE AQUA BOOGIE OF SUNSHINE WINE, YOU DIG.  
Lost: Black mountain bike-broken  HELP! I need 2 stud tix for AIR  Call her at 4-4045  -K LOVE PSYCHOALPODISCO­ 
front reflector. letters "Silver Ridge"  EA HOCKEY for IBM  FORCE. Call EILEEN 272-8606  To the biggest weasel of them all :  FOOL  
on the side. Stolen on Thurs. out­ 1994 players with trades, etc ...  Desperately need 2 Air Force GA's.  Happy birthday Niebler!l!  
side of South Dining Hall after din­ almost brand new, has all books  I need two G.A.'s for Air Force. Call  Call Kathryn 284-5223  From the third floor crew.  Need 2 Air Force GA's. Call  
ner. Return to Stanford-no ques­ and the registration form.  Dave at x1891  Kathryn 284-5223  
tions asked 4-2087  best offer; call Tom at4-1712  NEED 2 A. F. G.A.'S  Hey Paul Berritlini- 
Need to sell 1 student Air Force  MIKE 271 -0979  1 would love to have my Citadel hat  
FOUND: Man's class ring In  For Sale: Fender Strat-$300  ticket. Call Ruth 288-9158  back anytime soon.  Did you steal, borrow or accidental­ 
- restroom in DeBartolo. Call 273­5935toidenlify  Call233-5130  NEED AF TIX -STD OR GAs. $$$  FOR SALE: 3 AF STU TIX CALL 289-9420  or at least before Newman goes to State YET AGAIN II  ly take my favorite green shirt from the Holy Cross laundry room?  
FOR SALE: 1978 OLDS 98  CALL MARY 273-2926  Thanks a bunchII  Please please PLEASE return it  
WANTED  RUNS VERY WELL. CALL CHRIS @ 273-9083  I need 2 AF GA's.Will pay bick  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 5 GA'S AN 2 STUD. TIX  -crisham  soon --my dad hadn't noticad it was missing and I'd like to give it  
bucks. Call Tony @ 4-3883  FOR AIR FORCE  Where was Nate Ebeling on  back to him. Call 4308 or return it to  
Lon ley?  1way plane ticket to Boston for  GAME!IIIIIIIIIIIIIII!!IIIIII  Saturday night?? STUDYING???  room 115 SOON. No questions  
I'll keep you company in your car IF  Dec20--best offer-JP@4013  I need 1 Air Force GA  CALL MIKE AT X16791111!!11  
 asked. Thanks!  
you are driving to D.C. for break!  Mike4-3326  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  What do you get when you a kiss a  
Will help w/gas, tolls etc. X3607  TICKETS  Need 2 Air Forca GA's call Brian  TO SELL: 1 air force stud. tic. call  bird??  Cam also knows that I love blue eyes ...  
X3467  287-1449  Lewis 4 W is just so cool.  
A.F. G.A's' LOW' LOW' PRICES  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  
wouldn't be as good as  272-6551  NEED 2 A. F. GA'S -CALL Joe  2 AF st. tks. for sale, $25 each.  3c, 3c, 3c, 3c,3c ,3c  To the answering machine ghost:  
SKETCH COMEDY  @X2765  x41444 (Tom)  we will, we will rock you.  Thanks a million if it was a gilt for  
ala PYTHON,SNL  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  Nothing compares.  us. If it was meant for someone  
NEED WRITERS AND ACTORS 9PM WED 11/16 MONTGOMERY  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  4 Sale: 2 USC GA x3373  PERSONAL  The Irish are #1 and will be the  else, tough shi-because we're already using it! :) thanks I  
THEATER, LA FORTUNE. CALL  I NEED AF GA's  I need 3 AF GA's  next National Champions!!  
MARK 271-1400, BOB 4-1661  DAVE 634-1198  -Bill at 272-2376  Seamaisin at the Midway Tavern, 2  Good luck to the Soccer Team  K to Ayres check-out lady: Uh hem,  
blocks So. of Hacienda on 4th  in Oregon! Go "kick" butt!  I'M buying this for HER.  
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE.  Need 2 A/F GA's  For Sale- Street.. .... Every Thursday  
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1  Andy 289-3736  2 AF Stud Tix.  Santa camel! (to visit)  Only one more day 'til Timmy's  
ORGANIZE GROUP.TRAVEL  Call Cathlynn at 284-4351.  Notre Dame's Traditional Irish Band  birthday! :)  
FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURS1­ AF, SO. CAL GA'S FOR SALE.  I need 2  ... Seamaisin .... 1st CD at the  Lisa is a queen and all men want  
800-426-7710  288-1186.  Airforce GA's. Call Kevin 271-7284  Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas  her.  ... 3 more til Clara'slll!ll  

~-~--~-~----~--~---­
page 11

Wednesday, November 16, 1994 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
• COlLEGE fOOTBAlL 
Oregon's O'Neil a Superduck Erickson to be more 
By BOB BAUM Rose Bowl appearance in 37 the Rose Bowl because of that Associated Press years. victory. 
open to pro pitches
Oregon and O'Neil seemed O'Neil traces the Ducks' turn­
EUGENE, Ore. 

Watching his Oregon team­mates upset Southern Cal with­out him seven weeks ago, Danny O'Neil decided it was time to give up the role of Superduck. 
"I was trying to be the offense earlier in the year, thinking I had to perform for us to win," O'Neil said. "Then when I saw us win at USC with­out me, I thought I really didn't need to be the hero each week. I'm just letting it happen." 
And what a happening it's been. Oregon has won five in a row to climb to No. 12 in~ the national rankings, its highest since 1964. 
A victory Saturday at Oregon State will clinch the Ducks' first headed nowhere three games into this season. The Ducks were 1-2 and the losses, to Hawaii and Utah. were ugly. Although Oregon did come back to beat Iowa, O'Neil was far off the form of his junior season in 1993, when he threw for a school-record 3,224 yards and 22 touchdowns. 
To make matters worse, he came down with an infected finger and missed the game at Southern Cal. 
Backup Tony Graziani led the Ducks to a stunning 22-7 upset, their first victory over the Trojans in Los Angeles since 1971. That game looms large in retrospect. If Oregon and Southern Cal both finish 7-1 in the Pac-1 0, Oregon will go to around to that Oct. 1 afternoon in Los Angeles. 


''I'm not sure what happened but it seems like the team said, 'It just doesn't matter. Let's win.' It showed this team could definitely play some good foot­ball," he said. 
O'Neil didn't exactly catch fire after that, either. He was supposed to sit out the Washington State game, but had to play when Graziani was injured and wound up throwing 17 straight incompletions in a 21-7 loss. 
The next week, he was solid in a 23-7 victory over Cal. 
But the fans still booed the 
four-year starter at every op­
portunity, labeling him the 
quarterback who couldn't 
come through in the clutch, 
who had never brought a team 
from behind in the second half. 
Then came the upsets over 
Washington and Arizona, when 
O'Neil rallied the Ducks on con­
secutive weekends. 
He completed all four passes 
on a 98-yard scoring drive that 
put Oregon ahead for good 
against Washington and passed 
15 yards to Josh Wilcox for the 
only touchdown in the 10-9 win 
over Arizona. 
Still, most of the attention 
went to Oregon's "Gang 
Green" defense, and the of­
fense noticed. 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 

Miami Hurricanes coach Dennis Erickson, long rumored to be headed to the NFL, says he would be more receptive to a pro offer now than in past years. 
"This happens every year," Erickson said Tuesday of speculation about his future. "The only thing I'm saying differently right now is that if there was something in the NFL or college or business that I would be interested in, I might listen to it. That's the only dif­ference in feeling right now from last year, or five years ago." 
Erickson was merely reiterat­ing a remark he made in August, but his latest comments nonetheless are likely to fuel speculation, because he and Florida Gators coach Steve Spurrier reportedly lead the NFL expansion Carolina Panthers' wish list. 
The 4 7 -year-old Erickson's 
future was the primary topic at 
his weekly news conference. He 
questions about speculation 
that he'll jump to the NFL. 
"It's something I've heard 
since I've been here," said se­
nior quarterback Frank Costa, who listened to the news con­ference. "This is probably the most serious he's talked about it." 
In previous years, Erickson was frequently mentioned as a possible candidate for pro coaching vacancies, and he al­ways denied an interest. 
"And there isn't anything that I'm interested in at this point," Erickson said. "I don't know that there will be this year, next year or any year. I love college football. I love the University of Miami. 
"I've spilled a lot of blood and sweat here the last six years, and been through a lot to get this program to the point where I think it's the best in the coun­try on the field and off the field. I want to reap the benefit." 
The Hurricanes have won two 
national championships since 
Erickson became coach in 
1989. They're 8-1 and ranked 
fifth going into Saturday's game 
at Temple. 
Miami athletic director Paul 
Dee said Erickson's newly ex­
pressed willingness to consider 
an NFL offer may represent a 
change merely in the coach's 
public posture, rather than a 
strong desire for a pro job. 
"I don't consider it a signifi­
cant shift," Dee said. 
Erickson said he hasn't been 
contacted by an NFL team . 

spent 10 minutes answering 

•1 e.the new group dedicated to bringing great activities that don't center around alcohol to our wonderful students, will be hosting a fun, exciting night of Country Western Dancing for the members ofthe ND/SMC community next Friday night at one of the area's finest facilities. (It's off campus, so it's better than Stepan,unlessyouhaveathingforspaceships.) We will be meeting at the Library Circle at 6:00 this Friday, November 18. Upon our arrival, we'll first get a quick lesson; then we'll be unleashed upon the other patrons of this establishment. Everyone who wants to have agood time and meet a bunch ofpeople for only $5.00 is invited on this outing. Just call John at 4-1410 or Mary at 4-4904 to let us know that you want to join in the fun.  

---~--­

page 12 The Observer • COLLEGE BASKETBALL Wednesday, November 16, 1994 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Michigan finds new fab five 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Steve Fisher just doesn't want to hear the "Fab" word around Crisler Arena this season. 
Over the last three seasons, the University of Michigan basketball team has been one of the best in the country, ever since Fisher recruited the Fab Five -Chris Webber, Jalen Rose, Juwan Howard, Jimmy King and Ray Jackson. 
Now, the Wolverines have an­other outstanding group of freshmen. King and Jackson, both seniors, are still around from the original Fabs. 
The Wolverines, ranked No. 16 in the AP preseason poll, open the 1994-95 season Wednesday night with an exhi­bition against the Polish National Team. Then they head Nov. 21-23 to the Maui Classic, where the games begin to count. 
Fisher isn't sure how his rebuilt team will respond. Last season, with Webber already gone, the Wolverines made it to the NCAA Midwest Regional Championship before being eliminated by eventual champi­on Arkansas. 

Replacing both Rose and Howard in the same season may prove more difficult this season than replacing Webber last year. 
"You just don't replace play­ers like Jalen and Juwan," Fisher said. "They were the heart and soul of our team. However, in the tradition of Michigan basketball, when out­standing players leave, some­one else steps forward to help maintain the successes we have enjoyed." 
There are plenty of candi­dates to choose from. In addi­tion to the talented frosh, the Wolverines have three starters returning: King, Jackson and Dugan Fife. 
The bulk of the scoring load, at least early, will be shifted to Jackson, a versatile swingman who can play either forward position. He averaged 12.4 points and 6.5 rebounds over the final 13 games last season. 
King, a 6-foot-5 shooting guard, averaged 12.3 points last season. He probably will score a lot more now that Rose is gone. Fife, the other guard, is mainly someone to bring the ball up the court. He seldom shoots. 
The leading candidate to take over the center spot vacated by Howard is 6-foot-8, 240-pound sophomore Makhtar Ndiaye (pronounced MACK-tar IN­jeye), who transferred from Wake Forest last year. This is only the fourth year of orga­nized basketball for Ndiaye, a Senegal native. 
"Makhtar gives us another big body who is going to have to play, if we are going to be Big Ten contenders," Fisher said. "He's a guy who's got some size, who can rebound and who can defend in the post. 
"These are some of the areas where my greatest concerns lie. 
Respert return keys Spartans 
By JEFF HOLYFIELD 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
The members of the Michigan State basketball team have a good feeling about this year. It goes beyond the fact that star guard Shawn Respert decided to hold off becoming an NBA millionaire for a year. 
And it runs deeper than the emotional fact that this will be coach Jud Heathcote's 19th and final season with the Spartans. 
It's a bedrock feeling that they have a chance to be a very good team this year. The Spartans, who open with an exhibition Thursday night against the Polish National Team, are ranked No. 20 in the AP preseason poll. 
Heathcote, who usually downplays his team's chances, admits that with Respert back for his senior year, the Spartans have a good shot at the Big Ten title. 
"It's not how good you are on paper," Heathcote said. "It's how good you play on the court." 
The players want to win a title for the coach. 

"He's going to go out a win­ner," vowed Respert, who's hoping for a stellar season to boost his stock in next year's National Basketball Association draft. 
Respert said the Spartans have a chance to be one of the top teams in the country and knowing that, they worked harder than ever before in the offseason. 
And it's not just all for Heathcote. 
''I've been here four years and I haven't got me a title," said Respert. who ranked No. 2 in the Big Ten in scoring last season with 24.2 points a game. 
Respert said he'll keep shoot­ing, but he's going to do more on defense. 
"I don't think I lacked the skill, it's more a question of a lack of willingness to apply it," he said with a chuckle. 
Along with the Big Ten crown, Respert also has his eyes on the league scoring championship and the No. 1 spot on Michigan State's all­time scoring list. He is sixth with 1,815 points. NBA star Steve Smith has the top spot with 2,263. 
l2.A.R.I ENOL 101 01 3595 PHIL 247 01 3869 CLOSED SECT. AS OF ENOL 301 01 0854 PHIL 256 01 3870 7:00P.M. 11/1594 ENOL 301 02 1210 PHIL 261 01 0490 ACCT 473 01 1521 ENOL 325 01 2068 PHIL 265 01 3873 ACCT 479 01 2531 ENOL 340A 01 3604 PSY 405 01 1631 AFAM 329 01 2840 ENOL 393C 01 3609 PSY 442 01 3906 AFAM 423 01 3430 ENOL 416C 01 3618 PSY 463 01 4297 AFAM 438 01 3431 ENOL 440 01 3622 PSY 487A 01 3910 AFAM 454 01 2729 ENOL 491 01 3630 RLST 351 56 9556 AMST 321E 01 3436 ENOL 492C 01 3632 soc 346 01 2736 AMST 347H 01 2726 ENOL 496E 01 3635 soc 374 01 2093 AMST 407E 01 3441 FIN 474 01 0668 THEO 252 01 1321 AMST 458E 01 2966 OEOS 142L 03 2219 THEO 265 01 0773 AMST 495E 01 3004 oovr 447 01 3704 THEO 290 01 2013 ANTH 365 01 3453 HIST 240 01 4361 THEO 437 01 4196 ARCH 566 01 3155 H!ST 413A 01 3768 THEO 460 01 4197 ARCH 582 01 3157 HIST 454A 01 2727 THTR 135 58 9758 ARCH 584 01 3158 H!ST 460A 01 2637 THTR 230 60 9760 ARCH 585 01 3159 H!ST 485A 01 3791 THTR 276 64 9764 ARST 289S 01 3486 MARK 382 01 4021 ARST 297S 01 3487 MATH 103 01 1820 CLASSES THAT WILL BA 487 01 4011 MUS 220 01 1575 REOPEN AT 7:00P.M. BA 490 03 0388 MUS 220 02 3852 11/16/94 CHEM 120L 01 2702 MUS 222 01 0800 COMM 103 07 9707 MUS 226 01 1729 ECON 447 01 3591 COTH 451 01 3554 PHIL 243 01 3868 MUS 226 01 1729 ECON 447 01 3591 PHIL 246 01 1335 PHIL 261 01 0490 


All told, Heathcote has four of last year's starters back and 10 lettermen. He said Respert and another senior, Eric Snow, give the Spartans "as good a guard combination as there is in the Big Ten and maybe the coun­try." 
Snow, who led the Big Ten in assists with 6. 7 a game last We need him." 
Sophomores Olivier Saint­Jean and Bobby Crawford, both contributors last season, have been hurt during training camp. Crawford may miss the season with an injured right knee. 
The injuries could open up significant playing time for the freshmen. Maceo Baston, Travis Conlan, Willie Mitchell, Maurice Taylor and Jarod Ward all came to Michigan with impressive high school creden­tials. 
Baston, Taylor and Ward are all listed at 6-9. Baston is an agile shot-blocker. while the 230-pound Taylor provides power. Both are excellent rebounders. 
The 6-7 Mitchell was Mr. Basketball in the state of Michigan last season at Detroit Pershing. Ward, a 6-7 swing­man from Mississippi, won the Naismith Award as the best high school player in the nation last season. 
AP Preseason @Top 2m  
Rank, Team Pts.  
1. Arkansas 1,646 2. N. Carolina 1,490 3. UMass 1,391 4. Kentucky 1,361 5. Arizona 1,270 6. UCLA 1,239 7. Maryland 1,126 8. Duke 1,120 9. Indiana 971 10.Florida 960 11.Kansas 958 12.Syracuse 951 13.Cincinnati 882 14. Virginia 856 15.Georgetown 620 16.Michigan 613 17.Wisconsin 539 18.Alabama 403 19.Connecticut 351 20.Michigan St. 345 21. Oklahoma St. 329 22.Villanova 282 23.Georgia Tech 239 24.Wake Forest 231 25.Illinois 178  


Wednesday, November 16, 1994 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL page 13 
• WOMEN'S INTERHAll 
Lyons looks for right combination 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Sports Writer 
Bradshaw to Swann. 
Montana to Rice. 
Marino to Clayton. 
Byrd to Layden. 
Heading into Sunday's title game against Off-Campus, Lyons' lethal tandem of quar­terback Julie Byrd and receiver Jenny Layden has emerged as Interhall football's version of these all-time great passing combinations. 
Byrd is the team's captain and offensive leader on the field. In last Sunday's 14-0 vic­tory over Pangborn, the junior signal caller scored on a quar­terback keeper and added a touchdown pass to Layden. Byrd is a major reason for the team's remarkable improve­ment over the course of the season. 
"She has had a great year," said Layden. "She has a great arm and is extremely fast. Her confidence and leadership has helped us get to where we are." 
Layden's touchdown recep­tion against Pangborn proved to be the straw that broke the camel's back. 
The junior wideout, in her first year of football, has devel­oped into Byrd's favorite target and one of the team's top scor­ers. 
"Jenny is just a tremendous athlete," said Byrd. "She has picked up the game quickly and has really accepted the chal­lenge." 
The tandem's improvement since the season opener can be traced to an increase in experi­ence and to the confidence the duo has gained over the eight game season. 
"I am able to anticipate where Jenny is going to be," said Byrd. "After playing together all year, we are defi­nitely on the same wave length." 
Layden added, "We comple­ment each other well. We've learned how each other plays. That's the big thing." 
Both athletes credit the play of the offensive line for their role in helping the team reach the finals. The unit consists of Suzanna Adams, Kristin line compose one of Interhall's strongest offenses, the defense has been equally dominating this season. 

Linemen Susan Barnidge and Christy Blakey. cornerback Maureen Hill, and linebackers Angie Fister and Mary O'Shaugnessy lead a unit that has recorded two consecutive shutouts in the playoffs. 
"The defense has been absolutely incredible," said Byrd. "They have prevented teams from scoring inside the 5-yard line. They just have been a dominant force this sea­son." 
The Lyons coaching staff, consisting of Kevin Kuwik, Andy Brant, Jim Mullen, and Kevin Klau, has also had a sig­nificant role in the team's suc­cess this year. The group has commmitted their time and provided leadership from the first practice to this week's preparations for OfT Campus. 
"They have inspired us to play our best," said Byrd. "They have been very dedicated to the team. We wouldn't be where we are without the help 

Interhall championships 
The women's interhall title game will be held Sunday at 12:30 and the men's final will be at 2:00. 
Hargrove, Heather Broering, of the coaches." and Lisa Novak. The league's best passing 
"The line doesn't receive the tandem. An intimidating recognition, but they have had defense. One of dorm football's a great year," said Layden. most dedicated coaching staffs. "We wouldn't be in the finals if Lyons hopes these three ingre­it wasn't for them." dients will combine to spell an 
While Layden, Byrd, and the lnterhall title on Sunday. 
WHAT 

IS THE LARGEST 
FUND-RAISER AT NOTRE DAME? 
. ,. . ! .. !

... r·Er S:~ a·ri·Rv·T.
,..... ' .. . ,.w.·. i 
~ ~ ~· .. t ~ ~ .
TH I 
--" . -w 

APPLICATIONS ARE BEING TAKEN FOR EXECUTIVE COORDINATOR 
NOW IS THE TIME TO BECOME INVOLVED: -GIVE YOUR RESUME A SERIOUS UPGRADE -SUPPORT THE NEEDS OF VARIOUS STUDENT 
ORGANIZATIONS -IMPROVE YOUR LEADERSHIP SKILLS -ASSURE THAT THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT 
BODY WILL AGAIN BE DRESSED BETTER THAN 
SPIKE LEE THE NEXT TIME HE TAGS ALONG WIT 
STANFORD 
APPLICATIONS CAN BE PICKED UP AT THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IN 31 5 LAFORTUNE 
LATEST DATE FOR CONSIDERATION WILL BE NOV. 21, 1994 AT 4:00 PM. 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Julie Byrd is one of the most dangerous quarterbacks in lnterhall foot­ball. Byrd and Lyons play Sunday in the women's interhall finals. 
Watch lull 
Je11i is 1111t1a 


,,,,, 
llelissa, Ann&Alln 
When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, November 16, 1994 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
• COI..LEGE BASKETBALL 

Irish women top Exhibition teams lead long seasons 
By OWEN CANFIELD seemingly can talk forever. "At teams love the idea of visiting 
Associated Press 

the Big East meetings when the United States for three
Australian team 

they said that they got kicked weeks or so. The players on 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
by Sarge, it was immediately teams such as Marathon orBy K.C. GOYER depth," Coach Muffet McGraw For the past 45 years, when unanimous that they wanted to High Five America orSports Writer said, "Our bench played really college basketball coaches have play us again. Those kind of Oklahoma City-based Conocowell." 
needed to schedule preseason people, they want us to come in have a chance to earn a few ex­
The Australian National Rosanne Bohman led the 
games they've dialed up Glen
Team came a long way to play team in points, coming off the and give 'em a heck of a ball tra bucks and keep their names 
Sergent.

against the Fighting Irish last bench to score thirteen inside game." alive in basketball circles. 
Known simply as Sarge, he is
night, but did not get far. After the paint. The freshmen Marathon Oil, which is no five minutes of play, the Irish showed impressive poise in the man behind the Marathon longer affiliated with the oil Conoco coach Gary Vick sl).idOil teams that play exhibitions
were trailing 10-17. That's their first collegiate contest. company but uses the name some players can make close' to 
when sophomore Jeannine Rookie Mollie Pierick started against colleges across the with the company's permission, $1,000 per week playing for Augustine got into the game the game and the season right country. Working out of his is part of a bristling business. traveling teams. "Most guys are and her tenacious defense took by sinking her first shot and the home in Joliet, Ill., he runs up a About 25 domestic teams such going to make $100 a game,Australia out of the game. team's first bucket thirty sec­phone bill of $6,000-$8,000 per as Athletes in Action, Spirit plus expenses." 
Two jumpers. two foul shots, onds after tip off. Total dam­
year talking to coaches who 
Express and High Five For many, the chance to get aand one lay up later, Notre ages at the buzzer were Notre 
want to schedule a game, or 
America, along with an increas­shot with a team overseasDame seized the lead and never Dame 84, Australia 65. 
with players wanting to play. 
ing number of foreign teams, makes it worth the time. 
looked back. The turnaround The Australian Institute make the rounds each "I've been overseas 48 timeswas led by Katryna Gaither as played full court man for most 
This year he has three teams
the Irish continued for sixteen of the game, allowing Notre November in gyms throughout with this team in the last 15 
fanning out nationwide to give the country. years and made a lot of con­
unaswered points. The half Dame to work on breaking a ended with the score at Notre press. college coaches an indication of It's a win-win situation for tacts," Sergent said. "I went to Dame 40, Australian Institute Foul trouble emerged in the where their teams need to im­both sides. France one year with nine guys 
28. second half as four players prove. The coaches need something and my wife, and came home 
In the second half, Beth racked up five, although only "We went 8-0 in the Big East other than practice se~sions to with my wife. The rest gotMorgan, last year's MVP, com­Bohman fouled out for the last year," said Sergent, who gauge their teams. The foreign jobs."
bined with strong perfor­Irish. mances off the bench to clinch "We need to work on 
Wisconsin-Green Bay. have to continue to believe inthe win. defense," McGraw said, "and But through it all the team yourself."
Berticelli
"One of our strengths is our not fouling." 

never quit. "Players will now be able to the wing-back set, is a slight continued from page 16 "I never had a game where I handle adversity in life and modification of the wishbone, 
was frustrated because we come through. It's made me a
Holtz 

but instead of having all three out him we would have to limp didn't try," Berticelli said. "The better coach, them better play­running backs lined up behind through things." 
continued from page 16 team hung in there during the ers, and us better people." 
the quarterback, two of the 
Without Lanza, teams recog­
difficult times. We have made The Irish have battledsaid. "But they are on a positive backs are lined up just outside nized senior forward Tim Oates mistakes, but they've given through. The younger players
roll, now, having won seven the tackles one yard off the 
as the only scorer on the team 
one-hundred percent. I have have gained valuable experi­games in a row. This is the best line. This new formation offers 
and proceeded to attempt to 
tremendous respect for the ence and have stepped up in
Air Force I've seen since the more threats to score. 
shut him down. 

players." the conference tournament.
days of Dee Dowis." 

Without the potent offense of
Dowis was the Air Force "The new formation presents From these times of frustra­The team looks stronger than 
last year, the Irish had to rely
quarterback from 1986-1989, more problems," Holtz contin­tion and bad luck the Irish have ever. 
on some freshmen and sopho­
and ran the wishbone like it ued. "The backs can get to the not only developed as soccer was a well-oiled automobile. corner quicker out of this set, mores to step up. With this players, but as people. "We came back and won the and they can pass more." inexperience and tremendous
The Air Force has revamped "How you deal with adversity conference and got into the the offensive set since the glory All this adds up to just one bad luck, the Irish would go makes you better," Berticelli NCAA tournament," Berticelli days of Dowis, but the result is thing. through streaks of offensive explained. "Soccer is like life. said. "We've gotten two of our still the same. The Falcons still ''I'm concerned about outbursts and offensive 
In soccer you set goals, in soc­goals." 
run the option until their oppo­whether or not we can beat the droughts. 
cer you score them. You expect Of the three preseason goals,nents turn blue. Air Force," Holtz concluded 
With the droughts came loses 
an easy one, but it doesn't al­now there is only one left-theThe new offensive alignment, Tuesday. to Northern Illinois, Loyola, and ways happen that way. You Final Four. 



---­ ~­ ----~-----­ 
Wednesday, November 16, 1994  The Observer • TODAY  page 15  
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE  DAVE KELLETT  THE FAR SIDE  GARY LARSON  



CALVlN AND HORRF.I\ 
WOW, t<\OM. 'S\JR.t TURNED ~~~ T\1£: G:l"N\\'TION Ql.lt.t.N W\\E.N 
SWC: t0JI'\D OVT I 1-\~D~'\ E'IEN STP-.R\CD \1\'i DIClRI\N\1\ PR().}EC.T W\\E.N IT WI\S 
A.LRffiiJi Wt. 
\tJDI'\~. 

DILBERT 
DID YOU 5EE MY YET? 
.. Arw 'S• lF EvER.'\or<IO U.N Jv~..-GE-r \lle•~< LAB C•A.,-<; o,..., 11-le. u,,... "BE.91N lo"t>P.'\~ A~siC..,r<m"'"'"'" OF 
lVR.!<INq \.-li'f'IP 
;To ~OLl>•· • ~ 
BILL WATTERSON 
E'/EN IF L\1Jt5 biD HN-IS IN lHt. ISI\Lf\NCE, 
I\ WO\llO DEI''tJ-IIJ ON 'M\1051:. TI-lt.'( 
WERE. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

YOU NEVER WANT TO 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Time of 54-Across
1 Concede, with 
36 Tokyo of yore 

"up" 
37 Blacksmith

5 Star in Cygnus 
38Now

10 Door-closing 
39 See 3-Down 

sound 
41 Inflexible

14 Proceedings 
43 Enliven, with 

15 The end for 
"up"

Socrates 
44 Finger, in a way 

16 Wonderland 
46 "-the news 

creature 
today, oh boy"17 Accomplice in (Beatles lyric) 54-Across 
48 ---Felicite, 20 Poker-faced TV Que. sidekick 
49 Places where 21 Workbench 17-Across sat 
item 52 Give the boot 22 Pop 53 Hamlet 23 Restaurant 54 Pumper's pride 
freebie 57 Swimming 26 Discus thrower champ Kristin Oerter et al. 60 Drawn-out fight 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
64 Downfall of 
17-Across 
68 Egg on 
&9 Nail file 
10 Guardianship 
71 Will's wife 
72 Took it from the top 
73 Physics unit 
DOWN 
1 Actuality 2 She loved Narcissus 
3 With 39-Across, "The Girl From lpanema" saxophonist 
4 Nobel Prize 
refuser, 1954 5 Everyman John 6 Fat letters 7 St. Petersburg's 
river 8 Major Hoople's exclamation, in 

50 Grazer's limiter 61 Nervous 51 Thought 62 Football 54 Shade of blue yardage 55 Overcook &3"What-is 56 Speak with the 
new?" hands 65 Dutch waterway 58 Bibliophile's 66 Indian title purchase 67 Dancer 59 Was in arrears Chari sse 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


.. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 631-5323 
the comics 9 Japanese battle cry 10 "Pinball Wizard" band, with "the" 11 Rocky 12 Acreage
13 Patch 
18 Despoils 
19 Blue-and-white pottery 
oven 
795-815 
28 Silent star 29 Concepts 30 "-worry ..." 31 Part of U.N.C.F. 32 Quaker 33That is 34 Terra firma 35 Gettysburg 
general George 40 "Germinal" author 
42 Actress Mary am 45 Island in Greek
myth 47 Animals' backs 


t 
i 
I SPORTS 
~ 
t 
'~-. 
• page 16 
t 
t 
• SocceR 

,
' 
I 
~ 
t I I 
~ 
I 
i 




BERTICELLI ­
er reaching the By coming off their first 
CAA tourna­THOMAS SCHLIDl: NCAA tournament bid 
ent for only the since 1988. 
Sporrs Writer 
third time in the history of Notre Dame men's soccer and his second as coach of the Irish, Mike Berticelli's season cannot be called disappointing. 
What it has been is frustrating. 
"This has not been a disappointing season at all," Berticelli said. "But it has been frustrating." 
The Irish entered this season rank­ing 16th in the coaches poll and were 

Yet, there was no luck for the Irish this year. 
They lost star forward Bill Lanza to a knee injury before the season began, and, with him, most of the offense. 
"The loss of Bill Lanza hurt us," Berticelli explained. "He was the heart and soul of the team. Without 
see BERTICELLI I page 14 
-. 

Wednesday, November 16, 1994 

S
itting in Zia's By as the seafood pasta on restaurant in a St. his plate, then the Irish
RIAN AKEY 
Louis Italian had just made the Blue
Associate Sports Editor 
neighborhood in late September, Notre Dame women's soc­cer coach Chris Petrucelli was happy. 
Petrucelli joked with his players, talked with their parents, and recapped moments of his team's 5-0 stomping of fifth-ranked Duke earlier that night. 
Early in the season, Notre Dame had just begun to show its potential, but if his team was only half as good 
Devils look like Beefaroni. 
Two months, sixteen wins, and a tie later. Petrucelli may not have found another meal like he had at Zia's, but he is still pretty happy. His top­ranked Irish have qualified for the program's first-ever NCAA final four where, Petrucelli believes, they have 
see PETRUCELLI I page 10 
• fOOTBALL 

Injury sidelines Goheen for Air Force 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Spons Editor 
The fearless leader of the Irish defense will miss the last home game of his career. 
Notre Dame captain Justin Goheen, the team's second leading tackler from his inside linebacker position, suffered a rotator culT injury in last week's game against Florida State. The senior will not be available to play in this weekend's game against the Air Force Academy. 

"Justin Goheen will miss this football game," Irish coach Lou Holtz said at his weekly press conference Tuesday. "I have no idea when Justin will be back. Certainly we'll miss him." 
Inserted in Goheen's place at inside linebacker will be sopho­more Lyron Cobbins, who has recorded 24 tackles so far this year. 
Holtz also named Renaldo Wynn (foot). Shawn Wooden (back), and Alton Maiden (foot) as questionable for Saturday's contest. Wynn and Wooden have been starters for most of the year, while Maiden has seen a substantial amount of time on the defensive line this year. 
On a brighter note for the Irish, seniors Lee Becton and Ray Zellars will start together in the backfield for the first time since the Purdue game. This will hopefully rekindle a spark that the Irish running game has missed. 
And it will be needed to beat an improved Falcon defense. 
"The difference between this year's Air Force team and those of the past is their defense," Holtz said. "They are giving up only 100 yards a game rushing, and they are very. very quick." 
Almost as quick as the Air Force offense, which is averag­ing 30.4 points scored a game, and orchestrated a 40-33 upset over No. 12 Utah last week. 
The Falcons have not lost since the third week of the sea­son. 
"The Air Force team was down for the couple of years that we didn't play them," Holtz 
see HOLTZ I pagel4 

i • 

Watch the women's soccer final four: 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Friday, November 18: The Irish women's basketball squad 

Notre Dame vs. Portland defeated the Australian National Team 
Live, 2:00 pm, Sportschannel Sunday, November 20:

in exhibition action last night. 

National Championship 

See page 14 
Tape Delay, 7:30 pm, ESPN2 
I 
~ 
... 
I 




