

April13, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 122 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Legality Environmental forum probes issues 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Civil Engineering and Geologi­
of arrest 

News Writer cal Sciences at Notre Dame and as a member of the Center for In an effort to provide educa­Bioengineering and Pollution tion on environmental issues, Control, Ketchum is involved Students for Environmental with environmental education. Action organized a forum at His job includes cleaning con­

debated 
By SARAH DORAN 

News Editor which students and professors taminated water and limiting offered their views on various its effects on the environment. Notre Dame law student John aspects of the environmental "Where does industry need Rita was illegally arrested last debate at LaFortune's Mont­help?" Ketchum asked the au­
gomery Theater last night. dience, and he responded by
November in connection with 

Much publicized concerns saying that corporations need
the traffic accident that killed Lyons Hall freshman Mara Fox, such as global warming, pollu­to make products using less 
his attorney asserted Monday. tion control, environmental pol­toxic materials. 
Due to the conditions sur­icy and its relation to jobs, and In an effort to achieve a rounding his arrest, all evi­deep ecology were topics of dis­pollution-free workplace, cussion at the forum. Ketchum said, the Center for
dence taken following the ar­rest, including that showing Uma Balakrishnan, who Bioengineering and Pollution 
teaches a graduate class on Control must show legislatures 
him to be legally intoxicated at 

Global and Environmental Is­their successes on order to con­
the time of the accident. should 

sues for the Government De­vince them to continue govern­
be inadmissible, according to Charles Asher, Rita's lawyer. partment, spoke on global ment funding of pollution con­A ruling on the admissibility warming. trol. 
"There is a difference be­Frank Timons, a third year
of the evidence is expected by the end of this week. 

tween the Green House Effect law student at Notre Dame, 
St. Joseph's County prosecu­and global warming," she said, spoke after Ketchum on tor Michael Barnes maintains noting that the Green House Ef­"Environmental Policy and Its that probable cause did exist fect is "normal" while the dan­Relation to Jobs." 
for police to enter Rita's apart­ger of global warming is that it He claimed that four out of 
ment shortly after the is "the Green House Effect ac­five Americans are willing to November 13 accident and celerated." sacrifice jobs for the environ­According to Balakrishnan, ment. Describing the battle
arrest him. 

atmospheric carbon dioxide between environmentalists and
Fox was walking with friends along Douglas Road on her way contributes to a "measurable capitalists. Timons said that 
increase in global tempera­"finger-pointing is unproduc­
home from Macri's Deli when she was struck in a hit and run ture." The question that exists tive." accident. She suffered head in­today, she said,.ds whether or "A healthy environment is a 
juries and was pronounced not this increase in carbon product that everyone would dead upon arrival at St. dioxide is the main cause of want to have," he said. "The global warming. Balakrishnan money spent on lobbying effort~
Joseph's County Medical Cen­

said she believes it is. and fighting in the courtroom
ter. 

"Any aspect of human activity should be used for education." 
Rita is scheduled for a May 16 trial on charges of causing a produces carbon dioxide," she Timons discussed Vice Presi­
death while driving drunk and said. dent AI Gore's approach to the When the earth warms, there environment, noting that Gore
leaving the scene of a accident. 

is "thinking forty years ahead." 
He had a blood alcohol level of is an increases in vegetation, 

more decomposition, and a rise must leave their homes in chance do you want to be on?" "We need to be thinking hun­
0.14 percent more than three 

in sea level. Consequently, search of safe land. peaking on pollution control, ·dreds of years ahead," Timons
hours after the accident. Indi­

there is "an increase in the in­Noting that there is a 50/50 Lloyd Ketchum said that part said, because of the fact that
ana law considers 0.10 or high­

tensity and frequency of tropi­chance that global warming ac­of his job is "cleaning up the "our fossil fuels will only last
er as legally intoxicated. 

cal storms," thus producing tually exists, Balakrishnan sins of the past." see RITA I page 4 "environmental refugees," who asked, "Which side of the 50/SO As a faculty member for the see FORUM/ page 4 




Mitchell withdraws from Supreme Court search 
By JOHN KING Clinton's search team. Admin­Associated Press istration officials said it was possible Clinton could suggest WASHINGTON or request new names, and not 
President Clinton's Supreme out of the question that he Court search was scrambled might look for another political Tuesday as Senate Majority figure. Leader George Mitchell abrupt­Interior Secretary Bruce ly withdrew from consideration. Babbitt said last week he did Mitchell said he was worried not want to be considered, and taking the job might hurt the Education Secretary Richard chances of health care reform Riley made the same request passing this year. last year. Both Babbitt and 
Clinton called Mitchell "my Riley are former governors. leading candidate" and said he New York Gov. Mario Cuomo had told the senator Monday was the ·early favorite when night: ''I'd like to appoint you to Clinton was filling his first high the Supreme Court if you think court vacancy a year ago, but we can do our work here this he also bowed out of con­year." tention. Clinton ultimately 
But the president said turned to Judge Ruth Bader Mitchell, after saying he would Ginsburg. Speaking to relish a chance to serve on the reporters on Capitol Hill, court, lamented that "the tim­Mitchell said Clinton had ing is not good" and concluded, "reluctantly accepted" his as­"I believe I should stay in the sessment that he could not Senate." guarantee the attention neces­
In bowing out, Mitchell told sary to steer a suitable health reporters he had concluded he asset on a court uuuu.u~ILJUJIJ. Because Hispanic to care bill to passage while might not be able to undergo vided on many controversial is­that, other candidates were be­court. Solicitor General Drew preparing to join the court in 
1tle demanding confirmation sues. ing considered even after Days III is another contender, October. 
process and keep his promise to While casting the develop­Mitchell emerged as the fa­as are at least two federal ap­
shepherd health care reform ment as a disappointment that vorite, they said. peals court judges, Richard Mitchell said Congress had "a 
through the Senate this year. set the search back a few steps, U.S. District Judge Jose Arnold of Arkansas and Amalya rare opportunity" to enact 
Mitchell served briefly as a administration officials said Cabranes of Connecticut was Kearse of New York. "comprehensive, meaningful 
federal judge in his native Clinton had been aware from said to be high on Clinton's list, They were described as the health care reform and I don't 
Maine, and his political skills the outset that legal or legisla­and the favorite of some advis­"most active" prospects from a want to do anything to detract 
were viewed as an important tive obstacles could foreclose a ers who want Clinton to name list of a dozen compiled by from that." 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, Aprill3, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
So many 


lists, so little time 



Sitting in a meeting two weeks ago, my hands begin to shake uncontrollably. Sleep deprivation will do that to you, I assured myself. No need to be alarmed. 
But then I felt a churning deep inside my stomach. I looked up quickly to ~ee if Lynn Bauwens anyone else had notiC~d. Assistant Aceent Editor 
Three people were starmg at me looking for the source of the growl. I looked around too, but there was no use pre­tending -they knew it was me. I smiled weakly and put my head back down. 


What was wrong with me, I asked myself. I normal~ do not emit animal noises from my stomach. That's when I realized it -I did not eat. I forgot to write down "Eat" on my long lists of things to do that day and I skipped the dining hall. 
I'll admit that for some people this is not at all unusual. I have friends who go for days without solid food. These are the same friends that I taunted for not realizing what is truly impor­tant. Now I had crossed over -I had become one ofthem. 
I lived by my three calendars and ongoing lists of things to do. I compulsively planned my days down to the last minute eliminating activi­ties which were not priorities -unimportant things like sleeping and eating. Somewhere along the line, my priorities got out of order. 
How could this happen this me? I love food. I used to plan my days around mealtimes ­wake up, eat, go to class, eat, work, eat, sleep. Life was so simple then. Could it be that I had become too busy? 
I began to worry -where would this lead? What if I forgot to breathe next? I could hear what they would say: "She was a nice girl, but those lists killed her." 
I forced myself to take a long, hard look at my ongoing lists-what to do today, tomorrow, this weekend, this summer, for the rest of my life. Lists can be good, I assured myself. They provided a framework to my chaotic life and helped me to remember all of the very impor­tant things that I had to do before I could relax. 
When I examined some of these lists, I saw projects and jobs and papers, but no time for my friends and, more importantly, no time for myself. 
I held up my lists and schedule as a badge o worth: "See how busy I am. I must be impor­tant." Other people were amazed at all that I did, but I had spread myself too thin. 
One Sunday afternoon, I tore up my lists. It was one of the hardest things for me to do since arriving at college, mainly because I had so many. 
Sometimes I feel myself reaching for a calen­dar to make a schedule, but I am learning to relax. I actually have been able to go out at the last minute and to drop everything to visit with a friend without worrying about all of the things that I could be accomplishing. 
While I still keep a busy schedule, I no longer live by a list. Things are definitely looking up. And ever since I made this decision, I have not missed a single meal. 
Th'e views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Dave Tyler Bridgette farrell Vivian Gembara Kathie Young Sports Graphics Tim Seymour Brendan Regan 
Joe Villinski Lab Tech Macy Hueckel 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Santa Monica Freeway reopens early after earthquake 
up clouds of dust. 

LOS ANGELES Los Angeles roads reopen A few hours 
Even the traffic jams looked sweet Tuesday on the Santa Monica Freeway as commuters on the world's busiest freeway waved from their windows and politicians celebrated the quake-severed road's early reopening. 
Repairs were finished 12 weeks after the Jan. 17 quake, earning the contractor $15 million in early completion bonuses. It's money that commuter Faisal Roble considers well spent. 
"It's excellent. I think it was worth it," said Roble, whose 15-mile trip from coastal Santa Monica to downtown 
Los Angeles was Source:CaliforniaDepartmentofTransportation trimmed to 20 minutes from the 45 it took using detour streets. The freeway was to have reopened Tuesday morning, but officials allowed traffic onto it late Monday-just in time for Gov. Pete Wilson, who is running for re-election, to make the 11 p.m. news. Transportation Secretary Federico Pena, Wilson and Mayor Richard Riordan cleared away orange-colored cones, and six California Highway Patrol motorcycle offi­cers led the first group of motorists across the spans. With their horns blaring, the first drivers leaned out of their windows, mugging for the TV cameras and kicking 
Gay couple rejected at wedding 
MOSCOW 

Robert Filippini and Yaroslav Mogutin say they're breaking new ground in Russian-American relations. But there are some relations Russia isn't ready for. On Tuesday, authorities turned down the men's application for marriage. The couple had arrived at Wedding Palace No. 4 clutching bouquets of flowers and their application for a two-groom wedding. But they didn't really expect the application to be accepted. "The main thing is to draw attention to the problems of homosexuals in Russia, protest the politics of sexism and show the strength of Russian-American ties," Mogutin said. The couple's visit to the marriage authorities came a year after Russia lifted a Soviet-era law that had made male homosexuality a crime punishable by up to five years in prison. 
Pentagon scams still a problem 
WASHINGTON 

A couple of blank forms and some forgery produced a $3 million bonanza for a former Military Sealift Command insider, who bilked the government for five years and was caught only acci­dentally -when an alert accountant noticed that bills were being paid for work done on a ship no longer in the fleet. "I don't have a feeling that you 


really have a system yet that will catch things like that," Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Chairman John Glenn, D-Ohio, told Pentagon Comptroller John J. Hamre. Edward McGill pleaded guilty to mail fraud, money laundering, tax evasion and false claims. 

NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 13. 40s 
70s 
FRONTS: 
"'T"'"'T" ..A.A... ~ COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press 
Atlanta  81  65  Denver  63  28  New York  51  44  
Baltimore  53  50  Houston  75  63  Philadelphia  51  48  
Boston  58  40  Los Angeles  90  62  Phoenix  85  56  
Chicago  57  40  Miami  79  71  St. Louis  65  47  
Colombus  76  47  Minneapolis  52  40  San Francisco  62  41  
Dallas  74  61  New Orleans  80  71  Seattle  60  42  

later, morning gridlock made clear things were back to normal on the freeway, which handles more than 300,000 vehicle trips per day. 
Traffic jams were even wei­corned' at a cere­mony Tuesday morning, where Vice President AI Gore joined other politicians. He praised the cutting of red tape, finan­cial incentives for the contractor and c o o p e r a t i o n between all levels of government. 

"Traffic has AP/Wm.J.Castello,TomHolmes never looked so good as it did today on the Santa Monica Freeway," Riordan said. The reopening mended the heart of the region's crucial highway system, ending losses to the economy that truckers and the Wilson administration put at more than $1 million a day. The celebration was marred by accusations of political game-playing and word that extra safety work is needed. Wilson said the bridges need further strengthening to ensure they can survive a major quake without closure, but the work won't disrupt traffic. He denied the need for upgrades stems from haste or shoddy construction. 
Japan's politics in tatters 
TOKYO 

Japan's eight-bloc governing coalition struggled to keep from tearing itself apart Tuesday. Seeing the disar­ray, the emboldened opposition party, the Liberal Democrats, plotted a return to power. "Our discussions are still stuck," negotiator Takashi Yonezawa conceded after th\) latest talks Tuesday on the government's future following the resignation of Prime Minister Norihiro Hosokawa. Coalition leaders said they wanted to work to avoid an outright breakup. Hosokawa's popularity had kept the tensions between liberals and conservatives in the coalition in check. But now that Hosokawa is quitting over a scandal involving personal finances, the strains have re-emerged. Coalition liberals fear that Japan's chief power broker, lchiro Ozawa, will be the real power in the new government. 
China-Taiwan relations strained 
TAIPEI 

A mysterious fire that killed 24 Taiwanese on a Chinese pleasure boat is poisoning the post-cold war detente that blossomed between the two Chinas. The March 31 tragedy on Thousand Island Lake in eastern China has been made worse by the treatment meted out to relatives who traveled there hoping to find out how it happened. Their account of the callous and highhanded manner in which they were treated has sent Taiwanese society into a fit of rage. "Bandit" was an epithet com­monly hurled across the Taiwan Straits during the four decades that Beijing and Taipei were at each other's throats. But since the era of rapprochement began in 1987, it has not been heard from a Taiwanese leader. 


Put your skills as a LEADER to good use on campus next year! 
Co-coordinator for Safe Walk (Student Employment) 
*flexible hours (about 10-20 hours per week) *provides leadership for 25 part-time student 
employees *develops crime prevention materials *promotes SafeWalk and crime prevention to all 
segments of ND community, especially in resi­dence halls *assists in selecting and training SafeWalk employees *liaison with student organizations who promote 
safety programs *schedules employees *maintains program records, 
time/attendance and payroll *assists with other campus security tasks as assigned 

For more information, or to obtain an application contact Phillip Johnson at 631-8338. 
Martin said. 

SOPHOMORES 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN BEING ON JUNIOR -CLASS COUNCIL NEXT YEAR, (DORM REPS AND COMMISSIONERS), PICK UP AN APPLICATION IN STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE. 
DEADLINE APRIL 15 BY 5:00P.M. 

Friday, April 15th, at 7:00 p.m. in Corpus Christi Parish Hall off Portage Avenue 
-sit-down Polish wedding feast dinner­-hours of dancing­-cash bar­-two great bands, Sabor Latino & CRIPE Street­-only $12°0 a person­-tickets on sale at LaFortune­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April13, 1994 





You can haul, but not drive 
By CORRINE DORAN Assistam News Editor 
U-Haul drivers, a change in the constitution, budget allocations and plans for freshman orientation were the major focus of discussion at last evening's Hall President's Council (HPC) meeting. 

Because of a concern for safety, halls will probably no longer be able to have stu­dents drive U-Haul trucks used to transfer items to stor­age, according to ~ayle Spencer from the Office of Student Affairs. 
"We are 80 to 90 percent sure you will not be a~le ~o drive them as students, said Spencer. . . 
Plans to provide drivers will be discussed. The costs of the drivers will most likely be split between the dorms using U-Haul trucks. 
In reviewing the council's constitution, the position of treasurer was added as part of the unanimously approved HPC constitutional changes. The policy review committee was deleted from the docu­ment. The changes will need to be approved by the Office of Student Affairs. 
In other administrative mat­ters, plans for next year's budget were announced. 
The council will have a $35,000 budget. Special events will receive $23,000, administration costs will be allocated $1000 and off cam­pus will receive $1000. 
Because of changes in the way The Shirt revenues. are going to be distributed, either hall allocations or weekend wheels will need to be cut from HPC's budget, according to Rich Palermo, HPC co­chair. 
The HPC will vote next week which program it wish­es to sponsor. Hall alloca­tions are about $12,000 and would amount to about $500 per dorm. Weekend ~h~e!s would receive $10,000 If It 1s chosen to be continued. 

Foru01 
continued from page 1 
fifty or sixty years." 
Timons offered methods with which environmental policy and the job market can com­plement each other. The gov­ernment can provide incen­tives for businesses. Grants can be given for study of environmental issues, and the public can support legislators who make "tough decisions." 
Ultimately, according to Tim­ons we need "a major shift in our' values and how we think" in relation to the environment. 
Steve Zavestoski, a Notre Dame graduate, focused ?n a spiritual aspect of the enVIron­ment, known as "deep ecol­ogy." 
Rita 

continued from page 1 
Rita is currently enrolled and attending classes as a second year law student, confirmed Peggy Buraczewski.' a r~pre­sentative of the registrar s of­fice. 
Three of Rita's friends led po­
"It is something that is un­derstood, a focus on self, not an academic discipline," he said in reference to deep ecology. 
Zavestoski spoke of a human crisi. "We have lost sense of what it means to be a human. We have lost our sense of place." . 
This, according to Zavestoski, is because we have adapted to a manufactured environ­ment."Are we incapable of liv­ing in the natural world? In the wild?" he asked. 
"Healing ourselves," accord­ing to Zavestoski, "is an indi­vidual process and a social pro­cess." 
Students for Environmental Action is helping to contribute to this process, according to Co­President, Moire Murray. "We are education in action," she said. 
lice to his apartment and directed them to his bedroom, according to the testimony of St. Joseph's County Police Cpl. James Chamberlain and Sgt. David Hoffman. Rita had fled the scene of the accident, parked his car in the parking lot of Kidz Bedzz on Grape Road, and gone home to bed, according to authorities. 
After the arrest, Rita was taken to the county jail for a 


VALPARAISO UNIVERSITY 
presents 

• -·-.. 


BOB DYLAN 
• -·-. 
SATURDAY • APRIL 16 
8:00 PM 

VALPARAISO UNIVERSITY ATHLETICS-RECREATION CENTER 
Tickets for this concert are on sale now and can be purchased through Ticket-Master by calling 
(312) 559-1212 in Illinois and (219) 272-7979 in Indiana. Tickets will also be sold at the Valparaiso University Ticket Office (219) 464-5233 at prices of $22, $ 19 and $16. 
Valparaiso, IN (NW Corner of Indiana • 50 Minutes East Of Chicago) 
K01iec 
continued from page 1 
abortion, the Court "must not abet this forfeiture of legislative responsibility." 
Supporters in the press and the courts lauded Blackmun as a voice of the excluded and the powerless. "How can the¥ claim he championed the vmceless when his Roe opinion con­demned the most helpless group of all -the unborn?" Kmiec countered. 
Kmiec also criticized the out­going Justice for his recent an­nouncement that "I no longer shall tinker with the machinery of death." "How can a justice of the Supreme Court not abide by the law of the land -which states, given due process, that 
Breathalyzer test, which was given 3 hours and six minutes after the accident. 
Statute states that the test is suppose to be given within three hours, Barnes told The South Bend Tribune. But he be­lieves there should be some lee way considering the time it took police to locate Rita. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
capital punishment is a viable course," said Kmiec. "Once again, he has dragged personal politics into the..court." H.e emphasized that Blackmun IS not known, nor will be remem­bered, as a highly skilled judi­cial craftsman." 
Kmiec said that he consid­ered Senator George Mitchell (D-Me.), the leading candidate to replace Blackmun, "an un­fortunate choice,"who would expose the Administration to more criticism. Ethical ques­tions could arise should oppo­nents of new welfare or health care legislation pose constitu­tional challenges in a Supreme Court which includes the sena­tor, he said. 
Mitchell today withdrew his name from contention. 

CLARIFICATION 
The headline of an article in yesterday's Observer w~s ~is­leading in its charactenzatwn of the "Notre Dame Law Review." The article that appeared in the Law Review, which took a strong stance against mandating gay ri~hts legislation, expressed the VIews of its author, not those of the Law Review. The Observer regrets the error. 

University of Notre Dame 
m 
= 
Come and Celebrate the Sacrament 
of 

CONFIRMATION 

Carlos Apacible 
John Carlo Blanchet-Ruth 
Rebecca Cannata 
Kevin Caster 
Colleen Corr 
Tracy Ferlazzo 
Carlos Gomez 
Nelanie Hamilton 
Thomas Isenbarger 
Bridget Keefe 
Jennifer King 
Joseph Lynch 
Susan Maher Matthew Makowski 
Megan McDermott 
Patrick Meehan 
Thomas Miller 
Rebecca Perri 
James Phillips 
Jose Ramirez 
Jack Rusina Dawn Scalise 
Joseph Scalise 
Sean Tynan 
Marah Wich 

Bishop John Sheets Sunday, April 17, 3:30pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 



Wednesday, April 13, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Business can be sweet says executive 
By lAUREN AIMONETTE 
News Writer 
A socially responsible corpo­ration is possible in the modern world, William Lehr, vice presi­dent and secretary of Hershey Foods Corporation, said last night in a lecture to the confer­ence on Corporate Social Re­sponsibility in a Global Envi­ronment being held at the Center for Continuing Education. 
Lehr attempted to dispel the current theory that socially re­sponsible corporations are myths or dinosaurs of industry by highlighting the Hershey Corporation as a business that 
If 1988 :f;:IIIIDY Awarcl V/iqer" 
lfEUNESUAY, Al11liL 13TH 
I~OJ..J..Olf 
"World's Greatest Sports Wriler"-GQ 




ttention Runners.... 
Do you want to earn some extra cash! 

runners a~~:"not eligible to .08111CID81:e. SmiOVt·w··. at 237-9145 if you 


Freshmen Orientation 
Positions Available 
If you are interested in working on the 1994 Freshmen -·Orientation committee pick up an application in the Student Government office and return it by Tuesday, April 19. 
is both internationally success­ful and socially responsible. 
"Maybe we are an exception that proves the rule, but I don't think so," stated Lehr. 
Lehr briefly outlined the life history of Milton Hershey, founder of the Hershey Corpo­ration. Showcasing Hershey as a corporate leader who re­mained socially responsible throughout the rise of his busi­ness, Lehr pointed out Her­shey's commitment to make chocolate available for every­one at a time when milk choco­late was considered a luxury. 
The values handed down to the corporation by Hershey, explained Lehr, have helped make social responsibility and ethics organized structures at the Hershey corporation. 

Hershey began the corpora­tion's balance of service and business growth early in its his­tory, demonstrated Lehr. The Hershey Industrial School for needy boys, founded in 1909 because of Hershey's strong belief in the value of education, still exists today as the Milton Hershey School. 
Dividends of Hershey stock go directly to clothe, feed, and educate the children at the school. During the Depression Era, Hershey also built a com­munity center, stadium, and arena in the vicinity of his fac­tories. This community spirit remains in the corporation's actions today, stated Lehr. 
Lehr pointed to the establish­ment of the Hershey National Track and Field program for youth and the "Youth Concert Program," and the great sup­port of the United Way and the Children's Miracle Network as ways the corporation serves the community. 
Hershey's key corporate poli­cies, explained Lehr, emphasize ethics awareness and social responsibility. Workers are provided with an ethics book and training programs to learn Hershey values. 
Lehr stated that to make these policies work it is critical to have good role models in the hierarchy of the corporation and to ensure appropriate out­comes will be taken if a viola­tion of the ethics code occurs. 
Lehr explained that the Her­shey corporation realizes it must practice what it preaches, and thus tries to act ethically with other businesses and the community as well as their employees. This approach leads to their formal advertis­ing policy, consisting of several parts. Some of these compo­nents, stated Lehr, are "an obligation to communicate ap­propriately, high standards of taste, and importance consid­ered with programs and media directed to youth." 
These policies have led to a variety of decisions by the Her­shey Corporation, including the decision to not advertise on MTV because "the corporation didn't feel the programs on MTV always were what we con­sider suitable programming." 
"Social responsibility and ethics are essential to every­thing we do at Hershey," com­mented Lehr. "We believe this is the right way to do business." 
Lehr further stated that the corporation realized it would be extremely easy to ignore social responsibility at times, but felt this would destroy Hershey's good name. Social responsibil­ity and ethical behavior, said Lehr, "is good business." 
The Hershey Corporation was recently named one of the top 50 corporations to work at, stated Lehr. The corporation's flexible hours, employee pro­grams for day-care, mental and physical wellness, and competi­tive pay all contribute to the corporation's rating. Milton Hershey's policy of social responsibility, concluded Lehr, has helped make the Hershey corporation a huge success in the chocolate and confectionery industries. 
Starr an 
SMC 
•


pioneer 
By KATHLEEN CALLAHAN News Writer 
Eliza Allen Starr was a pio­neer not only at Saint Mary's, but for the entire women's movement, Saint Mary's senior art major Catherine Adams told an audience at Haggar College Center yester­day morning. 
Adams, who received the 1993 SISTAR grant along with Laura Haigwood, profes­sor of English at Saint Mary's, wrote a paper entitled "Eliza Allen Starr: The Romantic Roots of a Woman-Centered Art Pedagogy." Starr was a women's activist who lived with the Sisters of the Holy Cross at Saint Mary's for a time, and established the Saint Mary's Art Department. 
Her woman-centered art pedagogy was 'based on her interpretations of Romantic and Transcendental Thought," and from this 'came the development of an art education methodology based on the three primary principles of the pedagogy; nature, faith, and the equality of women.' 
The art program was revo­lutionary in that it provided training for elementary teachers aimed at nuns teaching in catholic schools, according to Adams. Starr's goals in art education were to see stability in what was taught by SMC art teachers by centering on Beauty and Faith. 
She believed in Emerson's 'Beauty is the result of seeing past illusion by means of one's spiritual center.' The surroundings at SMC and it's collection of visual art "was one of the reasons why it was on the 'cutting edge' of edu­cation." 
In 1885, Starr was the first woman to receive the Laetare Medal from the Notre Dame because of her dedication to art education and to Catholicism, noted Adams. 
"Starr recognized the Catholic nature of medieval works as imperative to 
understanding the historical matrix in which the art was created," Adams wrote. "Starr criticized the nine­teenth century Church for not being a greater patron of the arts." 
Another of Starr's goals was to show the equality of women 's and men's art. She did not try to legitimize women's art because it has it's own legitimacy, said Adams. 
The lack of art education for women at this time was disconcerting to Starr. Ac­cording to Adams, in the late nineteenth century when some of the highly respected art schools began to admit women, Starr saw victory on the horizon. 


The Obsrver/Cynthia Exconde 
Importing wishes 

SMC junior Carle Fitch browses through items for sale at the "As you wish" imports at Lemans Hall. The sale will be held April 11-13 from 10-5 p.m. and includes items from clothing to accessories. 

Drug maker pulls antibiotic 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. be­gan recalling its liquid oral an­tibiotics from pharmacies Tuesday after foreign objects were found in some bottles, the Food and Drug Administration said. 
Consumers should stop using the products and consult a health-care professional, the FDA said. 
The antibiotics are named Polymox 0/S, Trimox 0/S, Be­tapen-V/K 0/S, Vectids 0/S, Principen 0/S and Pollycillin 0/S. 
Small plastic caps have been found in some containers and could cause choking, the FDA said. 
"If a therapeutic alternative is not readily available or appropriate, patients or the 
advised to carefully check the dispensed to customers. medicine prior to administering No injuries have been re­to ensure that it does not con­ported so far, said Betsy tain a plastic cap," an FDA Adams, an FDA spokeswoman. written statement said. "There is no known risk to 
The products are sold to patients who have completed pharmacies in powdered form therapy with the products," the and reconstituted before being FDA statement said. 

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
+American Med School Curriculum +Complete Your Education In 37 Months 
+ Guaranteed Clinical Rotations In US Hospitals 
VETERINARY MEDICINE 
+ American Veterinary School Curriculum +Listed In AVMA Directory. +We are Affiliated with US Veterinary Schools For Clinical Clerkships. +Complete Your Education in 3 Years 
Approx 2,000 Ross Grads Currently In Residencies or Private Practice In The U.S.A. Accepting Applications for both Schools for July &Nov 1994/Jan &Apr/11995 Semesters 
'Ross ~niversit:jtc 460West34thStreet ~d I A . I New York, N.Y.blOOOl 
InternatIona/ r;, ucat on dm1ss ons, nc 212-279-55 o 

Grace Hall presents: 
A Panel Discussion & Open Forum on 
RACE RELATIONS AT NOTRE DAME 
A student panel will share their views; we invite you to share yours. 
Wednesday, April 13th 7:30 pm in the Grace Hall Pit 




Refreshments will be served. 
Wednesday, April 13, 1994 

Corporate world faces new challenges, choices 
By WENDY GRZYWACZ 
News Writer 

The social implications of to­day's corporate America are rapidly changing, Michael No­vak, the George Frederick Jewett Chair and Director of Political Studies at the Ameri­can Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research told an audience at the Center for Con­tinuing Education yesterday. 
"Corporations are crucial me­diating structures for civil soci­ety" and serve as an "important independent social form" said Novak, an author, theologian, and former U.S. Ambassador. 
Business should satisfy cus­tomers by providing goods that meet their needs, make returns on money entrusted to it by in­vestors, create new wealth, create jobs, generate upward mobility, and provide invention and ingenuity. 
A corporation would "con­tribute an enormous amount to the common good of our soci­ety" if it met these seven responsibilities, he said. "Protecting the political soil of liberty" and "being a model of respect for law" are also cru­cial for business, according to Novak. 
Business is a vital part of so­ciety because it provides a "cre­ation of wealth," is and serves as a means to "learn skills of working with others and team­work" said Novak. 
Business is not a church, state, or political association, according to Novak. However it is an economic association to which people can give part or most of their lives. 
The favorable opinions of Pope John Paul II regarding in­dependent corporations and the role of Christianity in business were also addressed by Novak. 

~----~------------~--------------------------------------------~ ---~-~-------------­
Wednesday, April13, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 

Republicans promise Midwest rivers on the rise 
Associated Press 
debate on crime bill 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

On the eve of House debate on the crime bill, Republicans were upset by a Democratic shutout of some GOP amend­ments and threatened to be "disruptive and dilatory" when debate starts Wednesday. 
The $15 billion bill calls for $3 billion for prison building, $3.45 billion for 50,000 new police officers and $7 billion in prevention efforts, among other things. 
The Senate passed a $22 bil­lion crime bill in November. 
House leaders have already in­dicated they will accept the Senate's plan to fund 100,000 police officers sought by Presi­dent Clinton, at a cost of $8.9 billion. 
Rep. Gerald Solomon, R-N.Y., the ranking Republican on the House Rules Committee, said Tuesday that he told House Re­publican leaders "that we ought to be disruptive and dila­tory because of the treatment we received." 
The treatment that outraged Solomon occurred during a four-hour Rules Committee meeting. 


Torrential rain let up in satu­rated areas of the Midwest on Tuesday, but three days of downpours left behind rising rivers that sent some residents from Oklahoma to Ohio scram­bling for higher ground. 
The storm system that dropped up to a foot of rain across the Midwest since Saturday moved east­ward out of 


the region. Jim Edgar Showers 
were scattered across Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, and Missouri. Parts of Kansas and Missouri 
got much-welcomed sunshine. 
Illinois Gov. Jim Edgar put 1,000 National Guard members on alert to respond to flash flooding in the eastern part of the state. He said some levees breached during last summer's flooding are not yet repaired, and therefore vulnerable. 
In Villa Grove, Ill., the swollen Embarras River put part of Main Street under 6 feet of water. Residents in the town of 2,700 were ordered to evac­uate and at least half the homes were flooded. 
Jane Finke, 35, and her three daughters were rescued by boat. 
"I've got 6 feet of water in my basement," Mrs. Finke said. "We're totally surrounded. It came up so fast I couldn't get our stuff out of the basement. Our furnace is floating." 
Villa Grove Mayor Ron Hunt said sandbagging probably wouldn't be enough to keep floodwaters out of water treat­ment plant and the town's wa­ter supply would probably be contaminated. 
In Danville, Ill., about 20 peo­ple were evacuated after almost 4 inches of rain flooded parts of the city. About 20 homes in Hoopeston also were evacuated. 
In eastern Missouri, the Mis­souri River was flooding some towns, surging through levees still unrepaired from last sum­mer's devastating flood. 
"It's just a nightmare all over again," said Gerald Engemann, a farmer in Hermann, about 25 miles west of St. Louis. 
U.S. Sen. Christopher Bond, R-Mo., toured the area by heli­copter Tuesday and accused the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers of not repairing the levees quickly enough. 
Jerry Adams, the Corps' ex­ecutive officer in Kansas City, said repairs have been hin­dered because many levees are privately owned and negotia­tions are required before work can begin. 
Up to 6 inches of rain fell overnight Monday in northern Indiana, closing roads and giv­ing all students in Benton County the day off. 
At least 125 people were evacuated from a trailer park in Remington, said Jerry Hauer, director of the State Emergency Management Agency. 
He said there were other scattered evacuations, and two people had to be plucked from the roof of their car south of Lafayette because of the over­flowing Wabash River. 
In southeast Kansas, where the sun broke through clouds, many of the 42 families evacu­ated near Pittsburg were al­lowed home to begin pumping out floodwater. 
"At least it's not raining," said Capt. Tammy Altic of the Salvation Army in Pittsburg said. "The water is still there, but it's clear now. I hope it lasts." 
Northwest Kansas also was returning to normal after 10 inches of snow fell late Monday and early Tuesday. 
In Nebraska, up to a foot of snow fell overnight. 
Valparaiso University Presents 

TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAJ)!!! 
VIOLENT FEMMES 

Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1995-96. 
Athletics-Recreation Center -Valparaiso University Thursday, April 21 • 8:00 pm 

All freshmen, sophomores and juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the 
Doors Open At 7:00 pm 

informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Wednesday evening, calling (312) 559-1212 in Illinois and (219) 272-7979 in Indiana at prices of $18, $15, and $12. Tickets may also 
Tickets are available now through Ticket-Master by 

April13, 1994 at 7:00pm in room 131 DeBartolo be purchased at the Valparaiso University Ticket Office (219) 464-5233. 
You may even get paid for f e a dill g it.After all, this book from MasterCard® offers lots of useful tips on finding a real job, and it's written for students by students. To order your copy for $9.95, call 1-800-JOB-8894. MasterCard. It's more than a credit card. It's smart money:. Cl 1994 M4SttrCard lntcrnatioMI lru:orporatttl  


page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 13, 1994 



Foreigners rush to escape Rwanda 



Norwest~ 
Unbelievable 
,, 
Free Checking. ,....,.,....,,,." '"" 
Everyone~ GawkingAbout lt. 
You can see it on their faces. People everywhere are amazed by our brand new Unbelievable Free Checking. After all, whdd believe no monthly service charges? Whdd believe no minimum balance? Whdd believe no per check charges plus a free first order of 200 checks? Well start believing. And only Norwest gives you 24-hour telephone banking, free access to Instant Cash machines in Indiana and Ohio. So stop by today and open your Norwest Unbelievable Free Checking account. Pretty soon you'll be gawking too. 
MADELEVA 
A WOMAN OF FAITH, STRENGTH & WISDOM 
Sister Mary Mad eleva Wulff, CSC 
-
Educator of Women 
-
Past President of Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 
-
Founder of the First School of Theology 
for 
Women in the United States 
-
Nationally Kn0wn P<1et and Author 
A Pictorial Biography by Man·a Assunta Werner, CSC 
(Please include $2.50 fiJr pn.'itatt and handling.) 
Make checks payable In: Maddeva-Werncr Saint Mary's • Bux 72 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 


By ARTHUR ALLEN 
Associated Press 
KIGALI, Rwanda 
Amid the crash of mortar fire, French and Belgian paratroop­ers evacuated the last large group of foreign refugees Tuesday as a major rebel force began pushing into Kigali from the north. 
With the advance of the rebels, mostly members of the minority Tutsi tribe, the capital was extremely tense. A trip through the outskirts gave the impression of an entire city at arms. 
The roads were lined with Hutu men, some dressed in new winter coats apparently looted from stores, others barefoot and armed with clubs, ma­chetes, axes and makeshift spears and bows and arrows. 
"They are afraid of the rebels and I don't blame them," said Guy Steimes, a Belgian busi­nessman. "The rebels call themselves the Rwandan Pa­triotic Front, but they'll proba­bly start killing Hutus, just like the presidential guard killed Tutsis." 
The rebel-controlled Radio 

Muhabura, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp., said rebel forces had taken control of two towns in northern Rwanda after inflicting heavy casualties on government troops. The report could not be immediately confirmed. 
More than 100,000 refugees streamed out of Kigali toward neighboring Burundi on Tues­day to escape the advancing rebel forces, and more than 1,000 foreigners were evacu­ated from the capital. 
An estimated 20,000 people have been slain in a week of violence, almost all of them Rwandans. 
Ten Belgian soldiers taking part in a U.N. peacekeeping op­eration died on the first day of fighting, which was set ofT by a plane crash Wednesday at Ki­gali's airport that killed the presidents of Rwanda and Bu­rundi. Six Belgian civilians and at least three French also have been killed. 
But the real dispute is decades-long, reflecting the enmity between Hutus who dominate the government and comprise 90 percent of the country's 8.5 million people, 
500 men each pushed into Ki­
gali late Tuesday, nearly sur­
rounding the airport. 
One group moved east and south of the airport, as the other tried to cut ofT the main road running west from the air­port to the city. They hadn't succeeded by nightfall, said Col. Marc Emonts-Gast, a Belgian military spokesman. 
The mostly Hutu army was pushed back at several points along a front running east-to­west across the city Tuesday, Belgian military sources said. 
Mortar and recoilless rifle 

/f!·f:Y;',; :1 blasts shook the airport all af­ternoon. The airport has been turned into an operating base for French and Belgian troops, as well as journalists. French TV journalists slept Tuesday night on conveyor belts at the international check-in desk. A reporter saw six fresh corpses with slash wounds along a road from the airport. Officials were unable to con­firm reports that members of Rwanda's interim government,
appointed by the army last week, had fled a hotel in Kigali where they had holed up for days. 

and Tutsis, who make up 9 per­cent of the population. Two rebel battalions of about 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 13, 1994 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayrer Spotts Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra­tion of either instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Generallnformation 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy .helios.nd.edu 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Teaching and Church inseparable Misleading headline 

Dear Editor: 
Whether Bishop D' Arcy blocked the appointment of Father Charles Curran to the Notre Dame faculty ("ND, D'Arcy relationship examined," The Observer April 7, 1994) or not, I have no idea. But I sug­gest that this matter be treated, not as a dirty little secret that needs to be brought out into the open, but as an occasion for serious reflection on the ques­tion, how is the Catholicity of this University to be ensured? 
"Outside interference" in the management of a university is of course to be deplored; but the bishop is not simply an out­sider in regard to the theo­logical teaching of a university located in his diocese. By his office he has grave responsibil­ity for it. 
The idea that we are au­tonomous and that no one has the right to tell us whom we may hire or what we may teach is not only unrealistic, it is also wrong in principle. As others have pointed out elsewhere, a shopkeeper who wants to advertise himself as an outlet for IBM has got to submit to the conditions imposed by IBM. 
We cannot claim to be a Catholic university without ac­cepting the supervision of Church authorities. Just as a university rightly insists on aca­demic standards, the Church also has the right to see that the name Catholic is not degraded by false merchandis­ing. 
Aeademic freedom, rightly understood, is undoubtedly a prerequisite for healthy univer­sity work. But it is equally true that Catholicism implies accep­tance of the doctrines and the pastoral supervision of the Catholic Church. Those who 
DOONESBURY 
A/..FONS£3,
C'MON, 
7HA~&X­

tV&RYBOOY.' 
ACTtY7H£3
IT5PAY­
/lr1PR$50N
8ACK 
hold that the two claims are mutually incompatible are left with the conclusion -which many embrace -that the con­cept of a Catholic University is intrinsically contradictory. Fortunately, history itself proves the contrary; the mod­ern university is a by-product of Catholic culture. 
Rather than a contradiction, I believe we are dealing with a kind of tension between two poles that are difficult to recon­cile, but immensely fruitful when kept in balance with each other. I don't pretend to have the final word on this subject, but let me offer a rough sketch of some of the principles involved. 
One of the most basic is this: that theology is not just intellec­tual reflection on religious top­ics that might describe what is sometimes called "philosophy of religion;" but sacred theology -theology in the primary sense as it is understood in the Catholic tradition, and is the heart of a Catholic University, is a function of faith. "Faith seek­ing understanding" is how St. Anselm put it; "faith thinking about itself" might be an acceptable rephrasing. 
Secondly, in the Catholic Church, faith is lived under the pastoral direction of the bish­ops. What this means in the concrete is a delicate, complex matter that would require a very lengthy discussion; but the principle itself is beyond ques­tion. It is one of the character­istics of the Catholic, as distinct from a Protestant understand­ing as a life of faith. 
The notion of doctrinal au­thority doesn't imply renounc­ing one's intelligence or surren­der of all critical sense; but it does imply that the believer live his faith under the teaching authority of his pastors (itself subject to diverse degrees). 

This is not a renunciation of academic freedom. It is too of­ten overlooked that acceptance of the faith is itself a fundamen­tal exercise of intellectual free­dom. Furthermore, within the faith, there is still a great deal of room for freedom -but not the freedom to think in contra­diction to what one professes. 
The interesting and enlight­ening discussions of the Catholic character of the University that have been held here over the past couple years have unfortunately shied away from this fundamental ques­tion: how in practice the mag­isterium of the Church should be involved in our work? 
Why is that? Perhaps some of us have unquestioningly ac­cepted the secular supposition that there can be no freedom under a magisterium. Others, without accepting it, may be in­timidated and shamed in the face of objections for which they have no answer. Others may simply be afraid that their faith might eventually require them to modify their philoso­phy. 
However, that may be, teach­ing authority is inseparable from Catholicism (or from the Church as Jesus founded it). Until we look frankly and intel­ligently at the question, how to integrate this authority into our University processes, we are doomed to limp along crippled in our academic life, vainly try­ing to conceal a dirty little se­cret that embarrasses without enlightening us. 
FATHER EDWARD 
O'CONNOR 
Emeritus Theology Faculty 
Corby Hall 


draws explanation 
Dear Editor: 
On Tuesday, April 12, The Observer published this title on its front page: "Law Review against gay rights legislation." The title refers to an article in the Law Review written by Richard Duncan of the Nebraska College of Law, enti­tled "Who Wants to Stop the Church: Homosexual Rights 
'To say that The 
Notre Dame Law Review is against gay rights legislation is no more truthful than saying that The Observer is anti-semitic.' 
Legislation, Public Policy, and Religious Freedom." 
To say that The Notre Dame Law Review is against gay rights legislation is no more truthful than saying that The Observer is anti-semitic. Not only is The Observer's story title misleading, it is careless. Given The Observer's own his­tory, its editors should know better. 
Last year, The Observer pub­lished a controversial anti­semitic article. Just this year, The Observer published an ad which questioned whether the holocaust ever really happened. Do publishing these pieces make The Observer anti-semit­ic? Hardly. Likewise, in pub­lishing an article which argues against the necessity of protec­tive gay-rights legislation, The Notre Dame Law Review is not anti-gay. 
We are no different than other law reviews throughout the­country: we publish rigorous articles which contribute to an academic debate. With this in mind, a better title would have been: "Law Review article against gay rights legislation." It certainly would have been a more acurate title, given the fact that Jason Williams' Observer story does no more than quote from professor Duncan's article. (Nowhere, for example, does the story quote any spokesperson of the Law Review as to the journal's opinion on gay-rights legisla­tion.) 
The Observer is not anti­semitic. The Notre Dame Law Review is not anti-gay rights legislation. Unfortunately, those who read The Observer's titles would never know that. 
ROBERT KEARNY Execrutive Editor STEVEN BRACCI Symposium Editor KATHLEEN McANANEY Lead Article Editor THOMAS BURKE Publication Editor THOMAS OSBORNE Lead Note Editor 
Editor's Note: Please see the clarification on page 4. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'IN FACT, P&AR, THE /..1771.& LAP5e5 THAT YOU AND N&WT HAVE HA[} ON TH/3 !3TH!Cb FR!.NTA!?E RA7HER 

t$7U/!3 APPEAR McRaY 
CL.li.V/3LANlJ?
UM...

VINOIC.T!V£3, ITMIGHT813 
5tA7Tl&?
HOIJ.J

BESTIF YOU K£PTA LOWP/?0­
ITPEJ&UP
£0/J.J?

f/l& OURJN6 TH£3 AaUA/.. 
7VYOU,

Ht:ARIN~. 

''No one can make you feel inferior without your consent." 
-Eleanor Roosevelt 

page 10 Wednesday, April 13, 1994


VIEWPOINT 
CHIRSTOPHER KRATOVIL WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Can Clinton handle today's Cuban Missle crisis? 
The central issue that has once again brought the Korean Peninsula to the very brink of war is the right of outlaw or "backlash" nations such as North Korea, Iran, Iraq and Libya to build and maintain nuclear arsenals. In Korea and elsewhere the United States has long committed itself to preventing nuclear proliferation; the idea of restricting nuclear weapons to those nations that already posses them. 
However, given the instability of the former Soviet Union's nuclear arsenal, the increased availability of weapons grade nuclear materials, the determi­nation of "backlash" nations to assert themselves, the perception that these devices are a prerequisite to being regarded as an international power and even the length of time that nuclear technology has been extant, anti-prolif­eration measures have become much more difficult. Indeed, the argument can be constructed that proliferation is now the single most dangerous foreign issue facing our nation. 
In light of the pressing and immediate nature of this danger, it is appropriate that President Clinton should draw upon the tradition of his predecessors and for­mulate a specific "doctrine" to deal with this situation. Just as the Monroe, Truman and Carter Doctrines made the aims and intent of American foreign pol­icy clear to the entire world (as well as to our own State Department), the "Clinton Doctrine" would be a succinct statement of the American position on and reaction to the unfortunate reality of widely distributed nuclear weapons. 
In formulating this new policy, the U.S. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
tion· campus apartment \;Utu~Jit>A. ii>However, l'!"tlSPlP!Y~· -t•t!•.~~~D .. 
cation· that lease have "u""'~"'' faced with two g _· tives: aJZree to the 
must recognize that it can not at this into the new world situation -nuclear Failure to comply with the terms of such late date prevent the dispersal of atomic weapons were never used by either side an ultimatum would result in, to quote weapons and technology -estimates as because to do so would have resulted in, Clinton's words to North Korea, "the end to the number of "nuclear club" mem­bluntly, the end of the world. The admit­of your country as a modern nation­bers and soon-to-be members runs as tedly cynical doctrine of Mutual assured state" (i.e. via a nuclear counter-strike). high as twenty. Destruction (MAD) helped to keep the A specific American corollary to such 
Nor can the United States rattle its peace for 45 years. a policy could state that a nuclear state­saber and threaten military action every However, the use of a nuclear weapon sponsored terrorist incident or attack time a hostile or "irresponsible" nation in a regional conflict or by terrorists is against the United State~ itself would seems poised to acquire "the bomb." now feasible; this once "unthinkable" result in immediate and overwhelming Such military efforts are costly, danger­proposition is now "thinkable" as the retaliation without going through the ous and prone to failure-as evidenced by using side will not by definition be intermediate de-escalation stage applic­the survival of the Iraqi nuclear pro­destroyed in a self-inflicted apocalypse. able in international cases. gram despite the announced Allied ef­America should, as part of this forts to destroy it during the Gulf War "Clinton Doctrine," define the offensive In essence, the proposed "Clinton and the current, blatant North Korean or terroristic use of a nuclear weapon as Doctrine" recognizes the reality of defiance of U.S. power. a crime against humanity and tanta­numerous nations including "backlash" 
By the same token, the passive diplo­mount to a declaration or war against states possessing nuclear arsenals. The macy and rhetoric of the oft-cited the entire community of nations. doctrine seeks to prevent the use of Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty seems these weapons by filling the current no more effective in combating the Any nation using a nuclear weapon power vacuum with a sort of regional­spread of weapons of mass destruction (save for defensive purposes) or supply­ized version of John Foster Dulles's than U.S. military posturing. Indeed, as ing one to terrorists would face grave "massive retaliation" theory. Rather an illustration several of the nations and immediate consequences. An ulti­than MAD, nations which use "the now known to be developing "the bomb" matum from the UN Security Council, bomb" will be faced with either the are signatories to the treaty. issued with full American support, removal of their leaders and interna­
Therefore in formulating this new would initially require the offending na­tional humiliation or Self Assured "Clinton Doctrine" the US must not place tion to immediately cease all military Destruction. too much faith in preemptive efforts but operations, ground its air force, turn The U.S. is facing what is, according to rather should operate under the as­over all additional nuclear weapons and David Key's remarks this weekend at sumption that almost any nation that is materials to the International Atomic Notre Dame, its "gravest international determined to is capable of building or Energy Agency and destroy its produc­crisis since the Cuban Missile crisis." We obtaining nuclear weapons. Therefore, tion facilities. can only hope that Clinton will have the the primary objective of American policy More importantly as a deterrent, the foresight to formulate a policy capable becomes preventing the use of even one leaders responsible for the use of a of dealing effectively with both the cur­of these horrible devices anywhere in nuclear weapon or its sale to terrorists rent and the now inevitable future the world at any time. would be charged with war crimes and regional nuclear conflicts. 
In attempting to deter the use of atom­turned over to face trial at a ic/hydrogen bombs Clinton and associ­Nuremberg-esque international court. ates should recall the lessons of the Cold The offending nation would also have to War and perhaps recycle some of the pay a large reparation to the nation Chris Kratovil is enrolled in the successful 1945-1989 policy thinking victimized by nuclear aggression. Freshman Year ofStudies. 

Protestant myths clarified 
'Letters to a Lonely God' misses the mark 
Dear Editor: 
I celebrate along with Father Robert Griffin in his most re­cent Letter to a Lonely God ("Ordination is a powerful sym­bol of the Church," Friday, April 8, 1994), the C.S.C. ordi­nations to the priesthood this past Saturday. It is truly a moment when the whole church can rejoice. 
However, when it becomes an occasion, as in Griffin's article, to point out the deficits of those traditions within Christendom which are not in communion with Rome then, regrettably, the celebration of ordination loses focus and "call to min­istry" comes to be interpreted in terms of Counter Reformation triumphalism. 
Nonetheless, since Griffin has broached the subject of the Reformers I feel compelled, as an ordained Lutheran pres­byter (priesVpastor), to respond briefly to his rhetoric on the Reformation churches (in par­ticular the Lutherans): 
First, Griffin's regrettable lumping together of all the Reformers as "separatists" only serves to perpetu 2 2 
ate the commonly mistaken assumption that all Reformers of the sixteenth century were of the same mind (not unlike the common mistake of using the phrase "The Protestant Church" as though there exists one unified ecclesiastical body which is in Protest). The fact is, the Reformers were not all the same. 
In the case of Luther, he was not an advocate of separatism but rather, as a priest of the Roman Catholic Church, an ad­vocate for the Reform of his beloved church from within. For various reasons, most no­tably his sharp tongue and un­yielding conscience, he found himself excommunicated and put on the outside; a far cry from setting-out to separate. 
Second, Luther's outcry against the Mass as "the great­
' Griffin's regrettable 
lumping together of all the Reformers as "separatists" only serves to perpetuate the com­monly mistaken assump­tion that all Reformers of the sixteenth century were of the same mind.' 
est blasphemy of God" was not against the Mass itself (as Griffin implies) but rather against the abuses of the Mass in his day; abuses which most post-Vatican II Roman Catholic theologians would now concur with. 
Luther did not throw out the lex orandi of the church (as Griffin suggests) but rather sought to purify it that it might more reverently be kept. As article XXIV of the Augsburg Confession (the Lutheran con­fessional document of 1530 which all Lutheran clergy sub­scribe to at their ordination) clearly and unequivocally states, "Our churches are false­ly accused of abolishing the Mass. Actually, the Mass is retained among us and is cele­brated with the greatest rever­ence." 
Third, Luther indeed argued that the Eucharist was not a repetition of Calvary, but nei­ther was Luther content to see it simply as "a memorial of Christ's passion" (as Griffin, surprisingly, wishes Luther to have viewed it); rather, for Luther and Lutherans, the Eucharist is a Divine Epiphany, and Incarnation of Christ. 
Lutherans are unwavering in their insistence that the Bread and Wine of the Eucharist are truly Christ's very own Body and Blood, and as such Lutherans believe Christ to be truly and substantively present on every Altar at every Mass. In short, a Lutheran Mass is not a Mass of "Divine Absence" (as Griffin chides) but one of Real Presence. 
Perhaps the most helpful thing to do in all this, however, is to extend an invitation to Griffin to come to a Lutheran Church such as Gloria Dei where I work as assistant pas­tor and see Lutherans, together with their ordained presbyters, reverently and devoutly keep­ing the beloved Mass of the "one holy catholic (kata holos) and apostolic Church." 
Then perhaps he will under­stand ordination not as an oc­casion to set ourselves (no mat­ter what tradition) as-over­against other traditions within Christendom, but rather as a time when the whole (Catholic) church can rejoice ecumeni­cally together in the continuing work of the Kingdom of God on earth. 
MARKLUTTIO Graduate Student in Theology Off-campus 

-~ ---------------~------------~­
..



ACCE,NT 
Wednesday, April 13, 1994 page 11 
Play to open with a BANG 
"You Can't Take It With You" captures spirit of a zany family 
By THERESA ALEMAN works in the basement of the family grandfather maintains daughters, makes and distrib­room and distribute them with Assistant Accent Editor house with his sidekick, Mr. an aquarium of unusually utes candy daily while she Essie''s candies. DePinna. Mrs. Sycamore pecks frightening pets and owes a practices ballet incessantly. Bridget cooks for the family 
Our Families... sure we all at a typewriter all day writing lifetime's worth of back taxes Her husband Ed likes to print and plans outlandish menus for 
love them but there are also plays and painting portraits to the federal government. whatever little phrases are the daily meals while her 
times when their eccentricities every eight years or so. The Essie, one of the Sycamore uttered in the family living boyfriend Donald stomps 
cause anxiety when it comes 
around the house philosophiz­
time for friends to meet them. ing about the shortcomings of 
Isn't there someone's behavior the American welfare system. 
or appearance you would like 
When the Kirbys arrive at the to refine a little before present­
Sycamore household, every ing him or her to a member of 
brewing problem within the the "outside world"? 
family culminates at once and 
George Kaufman and Moss the Kirbys are understandably 
Hart's "You Can't Take It With mortified by the night's events. 
You" is a story about one fami­
Fireworks go off in the house ly's bizarre quirks and habits 
as well as in the hearts of the and an insider's attempt to 
young lovers and the BANG refine them. 
cannot be suppressed the night Alice Sycamore falls in love of the fateful meeting of the and is engaged to be married. 
families. Realizing that sooner or later 
Following the catastrophic the two families will have to 
evening, an honorable visitor meet, she makes the necessary 
comes the next night to dinner preparations to present a 
with Mr. Kelenkhov, Essie's refined, sophisticated, and alto­
ballet instructor and along with gether artificial picture of her 
the grandfather, offers insight family. 
into the value of a genuine fam­The boyfriend, Tony Kirby 
ily. through some sort of mix up, 
A little of everyone's family shows up with his parents on 
can be seen in the play of chaos the wrong day and the Kirbys 
and familial affection. As a see the Sycamore family in all 
member of the audience, you its glory. 
are bound to find some laughs -' Mr. Sycamore, the patriarch 
and entertainment and "you of the family produces fire-can take it with you." 
Com:munication and Theatre presents final play of season 
BY MICHAEL RIMBERT Scenic designer Bruce 
Accent Writer Auerbach created the set, 
which brings the living room of 

Wednesday, April 13, through main character Grandpa 
Sunday, April 17, the Notre Vanderhof's New York City 
Dame Communication and home to the stage of 
Theatre Department will pre­Washington Hall. 
sent "You Can't Take It With 
You," by George S. Kaufman Richard E. Donnely, costume 
and Moss Hart. designer, has attired the cast in 
authentic clothes from the 

Under the direction of Father 1930's, much of which was 
David Garrick, this Pulitzer found in Chicago specialty 
Prize winning comedy will be clothing stores. 
the final presentation by the Professor Emeritus, Frederic 
Notre Dame Theatre Syburg, who plays Grandpa 
Department for the 1993-94 Vanderhof, donated some of his 
season. own hats to be used in the play. 
"You Can't Take it With You" Professor Syburg, who retired from Notre Dame Communication and Theatre after the 1990-92 season, has
' Even the most expe­
appeared in local productions

rienced theatergo­since his retirement, including r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Production Staff
Notre Communication .and Theatre

ers will find the play to be "The Sunshine Boys", put on by Dame 
the South Bend Civic Theatre presents Departmenlal Teohnical Dirt<:tor •..•...••.. Kevin Dreyer 
Take /I Tcchnic:ll Direcror . . . . . • • . . • • • . Bruce Auerbachlast year. You Can't Take It With You Costume Shop Monoger . . . . . . . • . . . Richard E. Donnelly ence. It is the best of a However, it has been over a by George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart 
an endearing experi­
Assis1ant to the Lighting Designer.••••••• Marielle Booeau • 
Assistant to !he Costume Designer • • • . • • . Kay Zollrowski
decade since he made his last Assistanl lo the Set Designer ...•..•••.•• Rachel Prouty •
genre and has served as 
Assistant Stage Managers ........••••.••. Brian Lewis •
acting appearance at Notre Artistic Staff 
Suzanne Mignanelli,• Gena Saracinoa model for many come­Dame. Portr.lit Anisl ......••••.......•..... ~wHom
Director ...•.•..........• Rev. Dovid Garrick, C.S.C. 
Grophic Designers .. . . . . . . . . • . . • . • . . . Kevin Peschke
dies through the years.' Lighting Designer . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • • Kevin Dreyer ManenSchalm 
Performances of "You Can't Costume Construction . . . . . . . . Jane Paunicka. Supervisor
Costume Designer __ ..•..•...•... Richard E. Donnelly 
Sean Brndy • • Ka!<n Carr
Take it With You" will run from 

Set Designer . . . .. . .. • .. .. . .. . . . .. • Bruce Auert>och Rulh Diemer, Jill Harris • 
Tom Barkes Wednesday, April 13, through Francis Kelly,• Molly Lajoie • 
Stage Manager. ....... , .. .. . . . . . . .. Marty Sprunck • 
Elena Maene, Tricia Nolan • NO Communication and Saturday, April 16, at 8:10 PM Michael O'Hln. Marty Sprunck • Properties M:mager .••.•.•........ Suz.anne Mignanelli •
and Sunday, April 17, at 2:30

Theatre Department Cast Set and Properties Crew ..•........•.•••Nicole MW'T3.y
PM. Approximate running time Brenda Wenda 
Gr:mdpa _ . • . . . .. . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . Frederic Syburg Makeup and Hair Crew ••....•. Pam O'Rourke. Supervisor is considered by many to be the of the show is 2 hours and 15 Penny Syc:~more . . . . . . . . • • . • . . . . . . . . Erin O'Malley • Deana Hogan Paul Sycamore ••...•.....•.•..•...... Mike Kersey • Wordrobe Crew , ...••.••..... Jane Paunicka, Supavisor
best American comedy ever minutes. 
Alice Sycamore . . . . . . . . • • . . . . • . . • . . Megan Thomas • Sean Brady,Ka!<n Carrwritten, according to Tom Essie Carmichael .............•....... Car.t Conway Debbie Molloy, Molly McLaughlin Ed Carmich01d •.......•..........•.. Slcphen Susco • S3r.lll Sawicld
Barkes of the Notre Dame Tickets are $7 for reserved 
Mr. DcPinna . . . . . • • . • . . • • . . . • . . . . . . Francis Kelly .. Light Board Oper.uor. . • • . . . . . . . • • . • Michael Scarsella • Communication and Theatre seats and are available at the Bridget . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . Jama M. Williamson • Lighting Crew . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marielle Boneau • Donald._ •. _......... _._ ............. Bill \Vade Jeff Dodson. Jerry Lavin, Elena Maene 
-
Department, "and has served as door or in advance from the Kolcnkhov ..................... Peter McGillicuddy Michael O'Hara. Erin O'Malley .. 

The Grand Duchess .............. Shannon M. Schwan • Rachel Prouly. • Christina Saracino • 
a model for its genre." LaFortune Student Center Box 
Gay Wellington .•.•............ Christina M. Saracino • Music Compiled by ...... , .. Rev. Dovid Garrick, C.S.C.Office. Mr. Kirby ......•..... _............ Chris Kudlocz Kevin Dreyer Mrs. Kirby • • • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . Jennifer Andre • Sound Boord Operator . • • . . . . . . . . . • . . . • Chris Pollina "Even the most experienced Tony Kirby • • . • . • • . . . • • . . • • . • . . . . . . . Pete Dillard • Set Construction Crew . . . . . . . . • . • • • . • . David B311gerttheatergoers will find the play Discount tickets for $5 are Henderson (IRS Agent)..•.....•......... Sc::m Homer Marielle Boneau,• Fernando Camira 
The Man (FBO. .. • • .. . .. • . . .. . . .. . . Ad:un C. Hicks Christian Dallavis, Jill Harris • I to be an endearing experience. available to students and senior Moe (FBI)........•..•••.•........ _... Jon Thorn • Michoel Kersey,• Suzanne Mignanelli • I 
Jim (FBI: Cob Driver). . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . Michoel Olbro • Erin O'Malley,• Melissa Pasteris
It is the best of a genre and has citizens for the Wednesday, I I 
Rachel Prouty,• Andy Ruppen Iserved as a model for mAny Thursday, and Sunday perfor­Selling Monica Secord, Randy Swatland I 
comedies through the years," mances. Call (219) 239-8128 I I 
The scene is the home of M3rtin Vanderhof. • Denotes Communication and 'fhto1tre m1jor
said Barkes. for Visa or Mastercard orders. New York City, in 1936. I I I 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
PC _ _.--· 


page 12 The Observer· NBA BASKETBALL 
Wednesday, April 13, 1994 


Olajuwon explodes for 42 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Hakeem Olajuwon scored 13 of his 42 points in the final four minutes, helping Houston hold off the stubborn Minnesota Timberwolves 98-89 Tuesday night as the Rockets tied last season's franchise record for victories. 
Houston (55-20) won its fifth in a row and took a 2 1/2-game lead over San Antonio in the Midwest Division. Minnesota lost its fourth straight. 
Robert Horry had 17 points and a career-high 13 rebounds for Houston, while rookie guard Isaiah Rider scored 28 points to lead the Timberwolves. 

Suns 107, Nuggets 102 
DENVER 
Frank Johnson and Mark West made key contributions in the second half and Phoenix prevented the Nuggets from solidifying their playoff status. 
Johnson, a reserve guard, scored 13 points on 5-of-6 shooting, and West, a center who starts many games but plays sparingly thereafter, added 12 points on 6-of-8 shooting. 

Kevin Johnson paced the Suns with 25 points and 10 as­sists. Dan Majerle adde.d 19 points and tied a season-high with 12 rebounds. Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf led Denver with 25 points. 

Jazz 126, Kings 91 

SALT LAKE CITY 
The Utah Jazz stayed within two games of Phoenix in the ­race for the fourth-best record in the West, getting 21 points from Karl Malone and 20 from Jeff Hornacek. 
It was Utah's third straight lopsided decision, following a 24-point victory over the Clip­pers and a 17-point win over Dallas. 
The Jazz broke the game open with an 18-0 run early in the first half and a 7-0 run late in the second quarter. Two free throws by Bryon Russell gave Utah its biggest lead, 115-73 with 7:3 5 left in the fourth quarter. 

Bulls 111, Nets 105 

CHICAGO 
The Chicago Bulls, readying themselves for a run at a fourth straight NBA championship, won their eighth straight game behind 25 points from Scottie Pippen. 
The Bulls moved within a half-game of New York and At­lanta in the battle for the best record in the Eastern Confer­ence. The Knicks and Hawks each have seven games left and Chicago has six -including three straight on the road. 
Chicago jumped on the Nets early and stayed ahead by a comfortable margin until the last few seconds. 

Cavaliers 119, Bucks 91 

RICHFIELD, Ohio 
The Cleveland Cavaliers clinched a playoff spot for the sixth time in seven seasons, beating Milwaukee behind 22 points each from Bobby Phills and Terrell Brandon. 
Cleveland became the fifth Eastern Conference team to qualify for the playoffs, joining New York, Atlanta, Chicago and Orlando. 
If the playoffs were scheduled to begin today, the Cavs would be the fifth seed and would open at Orlando. 
The Bucks lost their fifth con­secutive game overall and their 13th in a row on the road. 

76ers 134, Pistons 1 07 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
Jeff Malone scored 25 points, Orlando Woolridge had 23 and Philadelphia's bench outscored Detroit's by 57 points. 
The 76ers, who posted their highest point total of the sea­son, broke the game open in the third quarter by turning a 12-point halftime lead into a 25-point advantage by the end of the period. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST: A blue, London Fog, light·  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Attention!!!  $!..'!$IRISH GARDENS §1-u!$  
NOTICES  weight jacket with a liner. Call Eric at 4-3376.  -Earn up to $8,000+ in two months. Room &  FOR SALE  The 'Big Dog' has a deal for you!! I I have two tickets to Tokyo, Japan!  Come join this one-of-a-kind STU·  
Board! Transportation I Male or  Wait, there's more, much more! I  DENT-RUN business!  
THIRD ANNUAL  lost: one silver and black earring  Female. No experience necessary!  MOVING SALE!! White leather  1) Round Trip Airfare (yee-hah)!l  Irish Gardens is now accepting  
between zahm and pw on saturday  Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584  couch w/ Q-size fold-out bed,  2) 3 Nights in a Downtown Hotel  applications for the 1994-95 school  
.~.  ZAHM HALL  night. call katie at x2964  home-entertainment center, coffee  3) one stop is allowed on the trip  year for both in-store and delivery  
SUMMER HELP IN SOUTH BEND.  table, Q-size bed, dresser/mirror,  free of charge  positions. No floral experience nec­ 
ACOUSTICAL JAM  NO or SMC student to care tor 3  night stand, high-boy dresser,  All these luxurious flying tidbits for  essary: we seek creativity and  
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM  WANTED  children June 13 · Aug 5, Mon thru Fri. Must have good references and  glass/iron table w/ chairs & more! Call273·1984.  the low price of $500 per ticket. Please Call:  unbridled enthusiasm. Please pick up an application  
BEGINS@ 8  love kids. Non smoker. Call7·10pm  Rob 'da BIG DOG' Piecuch  today in the ;;tore in the basement  
3$ ADM. GOES TO THE  Summer Resort Jobs • Earn to  708·524-9386  x4328  of LaFortune. Call631-4004 for'  
LOGAN CENTER  $12/hr.+ tips. Locations include:  '91 Red Mercury Capri Convertible.  inquiries.  
ACTS INCLUDE: SLOPE  Hawaii, Florida, Rocky Mountains, Alaska, New England, etc. for  Looking for a place at Castle Point to rent for 1.5 months this summer  33K, Power locks, AMIFM Cassette A/C. Call 233-5773.  PERSONAL  $!**'1 IRISH GARDENS$!'..!  
GEORGE AND THE  details call: 1·800·807-5950 ext.  for 2 people. If any available, call  
FREAKS  R5584.  233-5130. Ask for Mike.  FURNITURE FOR SALE  We are a young white Christian  "A Baltimore Waltz"  
DAVE CURRAN AND FREE  call 273·4803  couple in their thirties, who live far  by Paula Vogel  
BEER .  CRUISE SHIPS HIRING • Earn up  away from the busy city life on 2000  Directed by Tricia Nolan  
BRIAN HAGERTY  to $2000+/mo. on cruise ships or  CHILD CARE-Caregiver needed  For sale • 1969 VW Camper Bus.  acres. Tremendous amount of love  
DAVE BRUNSMA  land-tour companies. World travel.  for the summer. 16 hrs per wk for 4  Original everything, needs tune-up,  is waiting for the special child we  Tuesday, April19  
SNAPDRAGONS  Summer & full-time employment  yr and 20 mo. old girls. Ref  will sacrifice $1700.00. Call Mike  look forward to adopting. Call Brent  and  
PLUS ASSORTED OTHER  available. No exp necessary. For  required. Call Lisa at273·4575  232·8344.  or Tina at 1·800-206· 7727.  Wednesday, April20  
ENTERTAINERS.  info call 1-206·634-0468 ext. C5584  at8pm  
SUPPORT A LOCAL CHARITY ITS A GREAT SHOW!  GOLF COURSE NEEDS HARD·  FOR RENT  College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath, w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to  *************KATHARSIS****••••••...  Washington Hall Lab Theater  
WORKING, CONSCIENTIOUS,  P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN  APRIL 15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in  Clearly, this is the place to be!!  
EARLY RISERS FOR SEASONAL  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  46634  Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway  
$$FOR BOOKS@ PANDORA'S  EMPLOYMENT. 45 HRS/WEEK.  ND/SMC EVENTS  Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss  
everyday but sunday until 5:30pm  EXP. PREF.  (219)291·7153  ••• FOR SALE: 1983 FORD •••  out. Fun starts at 10.For more  Hey NO men...  
233-2342 NO ave & Howard  GOLF PRIVIL.  In great condition, with 60,000 m.  information on gigs and parties  "If you like pina coladas and getting  
..  ILOST & FOUND I  287-1996. WE'RE TAKING APPLICATIONS  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library  $900 or best offer. Call 4·4091 '85 Alta Romeo Spider Convert.,  call237·9702. Ask for LENNY. .............KATHARSis••••••u•u•  caught in the rain, If you're not into yoga, If you have half a brain.  
FOR PEOPLE WHO LIKE PEO·  -New appliances  5-speed, $2,900. Call277-3068  If you like making love at midnight  
LOSTI  PLE. NOW HIRING COCKTAIL  -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms  Adopt · Happily married couple  in the dunes on the cape,  
SERVERS, BARTENDERS,  -Washer & Dryer units  Near NO -3 bedrm house.  wants to give your newborn love &  I'm the one that you've looked for,  
A gold, link bracelet somewhere  COOKS, AND FOOD SERVERS.  -Large closets  Reasonable 233-8855  security while easing your decision.  write to me and escape!"  
between Cushing and Hagger. If  PLEASE APPLY AT HACIENDA  -Covered parking  Expenses paid. Jean & Steve 1·  
found, could you please call Jeanne  700 LINCOLN WAY WEST  -Security System  87 Accord LX. Very well kept. Must  800-362·8856  Top 11 Reasons to Party with  
at x3465. Thanks.  MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544  -Large balconies  see. $6900. Kevin, 277-4339  Keenanites  
----tUnits now available- Loving couple longs to share our  11. Grovel, grovel, grovel.  
For Sale: 486DLC/33 4mg ram,  lives and love with your newborn.  12. You know it's a real party when  
2 SWF's seeking 1 or 2 female  $660 per month ..... Going Quicklyll  120mg HD, modem, monitor,  we know you don, I have an easy  there's cheese-balls.  
Did you take the wrong, black dress  roommates to share 2-bedroom  ..........CALL: 272-0691********•*  mouse, printer and software.  choice, but our home will provide  9. Thanks for a great time, ... I  
coat from Union Station at the  apartment at Indian Springs. We  Asking $800 Call 4-0968  your baby a future of love, happi­ mean, thanks for the beer.  
Grace Formal Friday night?  are really cool and need roommates  TIME IS RUNNING OUT! Call Kelly  ness and security. Call Susan & Jim  8. Yellow Cab #95 taking off at  
Please call x2350  to keep it cheap!! Call Amy at 4­ or Judie at291·1414 to reserve  219 289·4412  11:59 pm  
I'd love to get it back!  1339 or Jackie at 4-1333.  your Hertz Penske truck to make  New Unused Modem $80 Call271·  7 Most action we got was the hand  
your move home this summer easi·  7042  Nora·  jive  
er.  HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAYI!I  6. Doni ya love ttie way these cans  
LOST:  need graduation tickets bad  For Sale DBL Bed w/Box Spring  Thanks for 9 years of friendship!!!  fuel?  
Columbia Green Shell, possibly in  call Harry 233-5130  1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES.  $60 or best offer call 273-6318  You are the best!!l  5. Who's date was she any way??  
SOH -please call Brian x1130  NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE  Love,  4. Is that a perm?  
THE SOUTHWESTERN COMPA­ NOW & FALL. STARTING AT  91 VW Jetta, black, ale, 5 sp., 36k  Ceila  3. I'm from Minnesota, let me  
NY is looking for quality students  $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER­ miles, 1 owner. Exc. cond., $8800  caress you.  
who are serious about summer  TIES.272·6306  232·5207  2. We enjoy Hey-Tey's Bar  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  work. Earn $5,600 and gain valu­ Henderson- 1.We still love ya any way ...  
Help!!! A purple Columbia jacket  able Resume' Experience. For  APT AVAILABLE FOR RENT  1992 Yamaha Seca ll600cc.  Break a leg tonight· I hope you do  The Cold One, "Balli" and J.L's  
was taken from 126 Debartolo on  details call Joe at634-1814.  summer + 94-95 Hickory Village  only 1500 mi. Excell. cond.  well because I don'tlike things that  "date  
March 28 and I'm very cold. I am  5 min to ND:-200/mo util pd  $2800 call Bryan -1890  suck.  
offering a reward for its return or the  LOVING CARE FOR 2 CHILDREN  w/roommates!  
return of my glasses. Please call  (AGES 4 + 1) & HELP WITH  273·8369  1989 Ford Bronco II 4wd  NEEN·J  
Sean at631-8839to claim your  SOME HOUSEHOLD CHORES,  5-speed. Remaining ESP warranty.  ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE  HAPPY 19TH B-OA Y TO MY 6FT  
reward.  9-12 HRS./WK.  Oak Hill-Roommates needed  Excell. cond. $6500  CLUB MEMERS: There will be NO  HAENER OREGONIAN FRIEND  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  MAY HATE JULY.  call Bryan· 4·1890  class this Thursday. There WILL  THANX FOR BEING SO WON·  
OWN TRANSP. + EXP. REQ'D.  Summer roommates wanted for  be class next Thursday in Stepan  DERFUL AND TALL!  
Found­ 233-6657.  Oak Hill condo, rent very reason­able. Call Chris @ 273-2070.  TICKETS  Center from 8-9:30. Ques? Call Laurie 4-3490  LET'S DO BROCK·O·L YE & RIDE THE COMBINE!  
Gold Bracelet at The Village  ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER  LOVE RAYMAN  
Landing on Friday March 25. Call  EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO  For Rent -Diamond Lake Duplex  HELP!! I need extra grad. tix  
to identify@ x0915. Ask for Ryan.  $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN·  Available Sept.-May  call PIER 273-4909  In a hurry...  GOING TO UTILE FIVE?  
NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC.  All new-furnished.  don't worry.  WANT TO GIVE ME A RIDE?  
Lost: Gold Bracelet.  MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ June thru August weekly rental  FAXITI  PLEASE CALL LORI @ 4308  
A men's gold, rope chain bracelet  ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL  Must see-beautiful view.  I need graduation tickets  at  
was lost somewhere on campus.  OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN·  Calll-616-445·8492 on Sundays  if you can help, please call,  THE COPY SHOP  Are you really going to do a flaming,  
If found, please call  TEED SUCCESS! (919)929·4398  only. 21636 Howell Dr.  we'll talk  LaFortune Student Center  upside down bodyshot? That is  
Keith @4-1824.  ext A29.  Cassopolis, Ml  Mike x1651  NEW LOWER PRICES!  something I have to see!  


,--~ ----------------~--~---­
Wednesday, Aprill3, 1994 The Observer • MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Red Sox pummel Royals, 22-11 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

Scott Cooper hit for the cycle and drove in five runs, and the Boston Red Sox routed Kansas City 22-11 Tuesday night, the highest-scoring game ever against the Royals. 
The Royals had not allowed more runs since they began play in 1969, a span of 3,986 games. It also was the highest­scoring game in the 22-history of the ballpark. 
Cooper went 5-for-6 with two 
doubles, and became the first 
Boston player to hit for the cy­
cle since Mike Greenwell in 
1988. 
Mo Vaughn homered, tripled 
and drove in four runs for 
Boston in its biggest burst since 
a 24-5 romp over Cleveland on 
Aug. 21, 1986. Billy Hatcher, 
Dave Valle and John Valentin 
also homered for the Red Sox. 
Boston ripped Kevin Appier 
(0-2) for six runs in the first 
inning, then added eight runs 
in the sixth off Stan Belinda on 
only two hits. Danny Darwin (2­

Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid A venue Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 
SYRACUSE ABROAD Something to write home about! • Programs in Africa, Australia, Belgium, Czech Republic, England, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, and Spain 


• Prior foreign language not always necessary 
• 
SU credit 

• 
Field trips/traveling seminars 

• 
Internships 

• 
Study for a semester, a year, or a summer 

• 
Home or limited apartment placements 



Applications still being accepted 


Hey Sophomores! 
Get involved with 


Applications for the JPW Executive CommiHee available at LaFortune Information Desk. 
Due by Wednesday, April 131 
0) pitched six innings. 
Dave Henderson hit a three­run homer and Bob Hamelin also homered for Kansas City. 
White Sox 10, Yankees 5 
CHICAGO 
Frank Thomas and rookie Joe Hall homered, leading Wilson Alvarez and the Chicago White Sox past New York their third straight win. 
Alvarez (2-0) won his lOth straight decision, including a victory over Toronto in last year's playoffs. 
Hall hit his first major league home run and had two singles. Thomas hit a 426-foot homer and drove in three runs. 
The White Sox scored five times in the fourth off Terry Mulholland (1-1), keyed by Thomas' two-run single. 
Athletics 8, Blue Jays 4 
OAKLAND, Calif. Toronto pitchers issued 12 walks, four of them to Rickey 

Henderson, and the Oakland Athletics beat the Toronto Blue Jays 8-4 Tuesday night. 
Oakland won despite getting outhit 9-2. The A's did not get a hit after the first inning, but took advantage of four errors in snapping Toronto's four-game winning streak. 
Six walks in two-plus innings by Paul Spoljaric (0-1) set the tone for Toronto's pitching. 
With Oakland up 3-2 in the third, Spoljaric walked the first three batters and was behind 2-0 to Mark McGwire. Scott Brow came on and walked in a run, and Geronimo Berroa's shallow fly ball got another run home when second baseman Roberto Alomar fell making the catch. 
Toronto got two runs back in the fifth when rookie Alex Gon­zalez led off with a single and Devon White hit his second homer. One out later, with run­ners at first and second, John Olerud was robbed of a home run when Henderson made a leaping catch against the wall. 
APRIL IS CUSTOMER APPRECIATION MONTH 

THANKYOU SPECIALS 
2C COPIES $2 OFF UPS ­
~~~,i~S o ~.per c~ustomer, o"""'· 2-o.y" o,,,; 9~
11 & All Other UPS Services. -== '-=' 
Per customer, per dty ' --~; 
White Bond. t-.:::: --_., 
.t~ 


=--Ill'MAIL BOXESETC:
49CFAX 

Martin's Ironwood North Plaza Sending & Receiving, Comer of S.R. 23 and Ironwood domestic transmissions Houn: M·F 9:00am-7:00pm 
Sat. I 0:00am-6:00pm 
only, per page. Phone charges may apply. 
ph. (219)277-6245 fu (219)277-7679 
IT'S NoT WH..<\.T WE Do_ IT'S How WE Do IT.­
Otter redeemable only at :Jaroopanng Ma~l Boxes Erc. Cantars • Franc.'lises !ncleoeXer.t:y Owrao. & ~eratee. :11Nl Mail Soxes E!.C. 
God gives each person one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley. C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon. C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
-

Wednesday, April13, 1994
page 14 The Observer • BASKETBALL 
BOOKSTORE RESULTS-TUESDAY, APRIL 12 

.. . 
Turner d. Sweet Lou: The Animated Series 21-18 4 Short Non-Blondes & A Fruitcake d. BOHICAS 21-6 A Sollipst, 3 Men ... 
d. 5 Uncontrollable Chinese ... 21-18 Blame Our Parents d. Toonces 21-19 Johnny Utah & 4 Ex-Pres ... d. Why Don't You... 21-9 Jackson 5 d. Clearly Erroneous 27-25 King D.S. d. Tonya Harding, One Shortnut... 21-15 No Clue d. Power Converters 21-3 A Wet Naked Dancing ... d. The Third Ties Quintet 21-7 The Revenge of Kim ... d. 5 Mountain Climbers ... 21-14 Cannibalistic Vegetarians d. Helmet Night{ mares) 21-8 The Hood River Bandits d. The Double 0 Lovers 21-3 Bricklayers d. Mini Skirted Side Kick Fan Club 21-17 5 Majic Johnsons d. Excessive Creep 21-11 4 Cuacasians & A Quick ... 

d. 453 Bare Essentials 21-18 Magnolia Thunder d. No Bobbit, No Foul21-7 Heidi Fleiss' Posse d. Electris Shock Hazard 21-18 Kisby's Team d. Scott Schellhammer & His Package 21-8 Indiana Medium Pacers d. Baked Beans 21-7 Reasonable Doubt d. Carver's Crew 21-16 TNUC d. The Buddyjackers 21-7 Ain't No Love d. 1187 21-19 Waldo & His Rim Employees d. It Doesn't Get... 21-14 The Ya-Hoo Recovering ... d. We're Just Practicing ... 21-8 Creeping Death d. If You Open The Closet. .. 21-6 We Didn't Mind Losing ... 
d. 5 Guys That Only Shoot... 23-21 

Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
Most teams play just to have fun and dream about what it would be like to play in front of screaming fans in the round of 
64. Others receive shirts from sponsors, hold workouts, and become depressed if they don't play in the Sweet 16. 
Some people play with room­mates, drinking buddies, co­workers, girlfriends, or custo­dial staff members. Other peo­ple recruit the biggest, strongest, fastest player they can find and ask if he's avail­able. 
This tournament has all the quirks. Why else would some­one paint themselves with war paint, put on shorts and a hock­ey helmet and go play basket­ball? How bout a group of that wore togas and those large green St. Patty's day hats to Stepan for a Sunday game? Or a team that brings out a trum­pet player to play the Rocky theme song and various other common television tunes? Or a team like Secretion, who dressed up in tight white tank tops and strolled over to Stepan for a Monday rain game? 

There have been some pre­dictable occurrences too. The top 16 seeds, who everyone expects to do well, have all won handily thus far, but real chal­lenges await them in the later rounds. 
However, the random draw­ing of the tournament can cause anything to happen. Just ask R.S.V.P. a top 32 team led by Kirk Cunnigham. They lost their dream of advancement by a 21-19 upset to a team called Sweeter Than Candy. Sinn admitted that Sweeter slipped through the cracks and de­scribed it as sad when the ran­dom drawing hurts a great team. 
Another thing to remember is that we are in South Bend and the weather can change by the hour. One of the best things about Bookstore is the fact that games are played regardless of the conditions. 
The commissioners discour­age rescheduling whenever possible, and the weather will not cancel a game. 
So, as the first round comes to an end tomorrow, and the round of 256 gets underway on Friday, remember that this is Bookstore Basketball and that means anything can happen. 
Magic may exit NBA 
By JOHN NADEL 
Associated Press 

INGLEWOOD, Calif. 
Magic Johnson, wondering if the constant travel of the NBA has placed too many demands on his life, is leaning against returning as coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, The Los Angeles Times reported Tuesday. 
The newspaper said he will decide by the end of the week, perhaps as soon as Friday. The Lakers say they know nothing of such plans, contending Johnson had intended to dis­cuss his situation with them after the regular season ends April 24. 
The Times said Johnson, cit­ing restrictions on his lifestyle, estimated his chances of leav­ing at 70-30. 
Johnson told the Times he discussed the situation with his wife, Cookie, on Sunday night and expects to meet with owner Jerry Buss and general manager Jerry West in the next few days. 
Pillow... d. The Four Skins 21-19 
Bump & Grind II d. 5 Guys Who Like To Put... 21-11 
Hey Loppo What's That On Your Neck? 
d. The Breeze 21-18 Baked Potatoes d. Chastity Belt, Pareitals ... 21-5 Hot Fudge d. Four Guys With The Love ... 21-2 Rebel Alliance d. Team 582 21-1 Murph's Maddness ... d. Catholic Girls (forfeit) 









The Disappeared
5 Guys Who Are Not... d. The Good, The Bad ... (forfeit) The Flab 5 d. Nick's 2nd Choice 21-18 From Cavanaugh With Love d. 4 Sticks ... 21-13 

Amnesty International Concert
Who Are 5 People That... 
d. Lorena & 4 Other Girls ... 21-10 Knick Knack Patty Whacked ... d. If You Thought... 21-9 


Thursday, April14 
Yussel d. Team 570 (forfeit) 

4:00 -7:00 r,.m. 
Fieldhouse Mall 
(5:00 LaFortune if it rains)
· ll;tj~h~~utse~u"r"u<~.Y·· .~ Aptli12th .• 
. . .. 14th·. 
9: .•....... fu Gym 1 

FEATURING:

. . . . No experience nee~ 
.e~~~·. and ~quip!Aent ~ )Je 
Kelly's Marble

prpvidef.\. ·~ $iz(l.is llj:Qited. ·· Cost·is·$6.00> Jlegister.. 
Road Runner and the Acme-Do-lt-Yourself Horn Kit advance at -RecSports.. Julymore iltro; ca111:.6100. . 

363 1441 355 226 01 I soc 552 01 372 BA 363 05 1203 EDUC 404 48 8448 HIST 400 01 3888 MUS 228 01 3623 STV 225 01 2784 BA 363 06 0225 EE 222T 01 1422 HIST 401A 01 3589 PHIL 201 06 2008 STV 454 01 2718 BA 391 01 1030 ENOL 101 01 3959 HIST 453A 01 3595 PHIL 216 01 3976 THEO 200 08 2523 BA 391 02 0928 ENOL 301B 01 0769 HIST 456A 01 3597 PHIL 221 01 0172 THEO 243 01 0262
371 04 1053 

BA 490 01 1205 ENOL 306C 01 3776 HIST 458 01 2872 PHIL 222 02 0837 THEO 243T 01 3995
371 05 1055 

BA 490 03 1207 ENOL 319A 01 1549 HIST 458A 01 2873 PHIL 225 01 2783 THEO 250 01 0976
380 01 1059 

BIOS 304 01 1218 ENOL 399A 01 2797 HIST 471 01 3598 PHIL 227 01 3641 THEO 253 01 1003
475 01 1060 BIOS 344L 02 1223 ENOL 415C 01 3791 HIST 47IA 01 3599 PHIL 235 01 2014 THEO 265 01 1002476 02 1063 BIOS 344L 03 0631 ENOL 415F 01 3962 HIST 474A 01 2686 PHIL 241 01 4023 THEO 266 01 2380476 05 3148 BIOS 344L 04 0630 ENOL 453 01 2798 HIST 486A 01 3603 PHIL 241 02 4024 THEO 282 01 0261479 01 1064 

BIOS 401 01 1645 ENOL 471T 01 3804 HIST 493 01 3604 PHIL 241 OJ 4058 THEO 282 02 3740
481 01 1065 BIOS 420L 03 3202 ENOL 471T 02 3805 liPS 320 01 2547 PHIL 246 01 2015 THEO 283 01 3741499 01 4089 

BIOS 422 01 3203 ENOL 494A 01 3960 liPS 420 01 3930 PHIL 247 01 3642 THEO 287 01 3744
329 01 2811 

CAPP 216 01 3848 ENOL 495 01 3809 liPS 471 01 2757 PHIL 261 01 2016 THEO 290 01 0570
401 01 3377 CAPP 315 OJ 1270 FIN 231 02 0756 LAW 631A 01 1725 PHIL 261 02 0653 THEO 395 01 2526453 01 3860 

CAPP 331 01 0724 FIN 347 01 3150 LAW 631B 01 1726 PHIL 265 01 2017 THEO 475 01 3750
303E 01 2795 

CAPP 361 01 1271 FIN 360 02 1565 LAW 6310 01 1728 PSY 341 03 2444 THTR 276 54 9754
319E 01 3863 

CAPP 368 01 0665 FIN 360 04 1567 LAW 676 01 1731 PSY 342 01 2164 THTR 276 56 9756
3!9E 02 3864. 

CAPP 375 01 3849 FIN 361 03 1573 LAW 695 02 1734 PSY 355 01 0652355H 01 3865 CAPP 380 01 3850 FIN 376 02 1578 LAW 695 03 1735 PSY 357 01 3671 CLASSES Il:!A T WIL!.
369H 01 3866 


CE 331 01 1278 FIN 380 04 3155 LAW 695 04 1736 PSY 453 01 0310 REOPEN 2 f.M. ~[13[9~
382H 01 3867 CE 452 01 1285 FIN 470 01 1583 LAW 695 05 1737 PSY 454 OJ 0833 ACCT 371 04 1053387H 01 2684 CHEG 459 02 1302 GE 103 01 1631 LAW 695 06 0710 PSY 462 01 3979 AMST 319E 02 3864456H 01 3869 CHEM 201 02 0626 GEOS 141L 05 4016 MARK 350 01 1746 PSY 470 01 3674 ANTH 329 01 2809465 01 3381 COCT 441 01 3466 GOVT 240T 02 3510 MARK 370 02 1749 PSY 487A 01 3676 BA 363 02 1441493E 01 3961 


COMM 103 01 9701 GOVT 242T 01 3515 MARK 384 01 1752 PSY 487C 01 3678 BA 490 01 1205
328 01 2677 COMM 103 05 9705 GOVT 242T 04 3518 MARK 476 01 1753 RLST 240 50 9550 BIOS 420L 03 3202329 01 2809 COMM 103 09 9709 GOVT 242T 06 3521 MARK 476 02 1754 RLST 240 54 9554 COMM 103 09 9709 

llalatd Goo 33(PG13) 12::.1,2:45,5:15. 330 01 0473 

COMM 103 II 9711 GOVT 243T 06 3532 MATH 102 01 0572 ROFR 443 01 3690 ENOL JOIB 01 0769
7:45,10:00 386 01 3388 

Dllluni(PGI 1:45, 4:15, 7:00, 9:30 COMM 210 12 9712 GOVT 301 01 3965 MATH 325 04 0783 ROFR 490 01 2661 ENOL 306C 01 3776
420 01 3393

0:2: MIGhty biiCb 2(PG)1 :00, 4:00, 6:45, COMM 210 14 9714 GOVT 325 01 3876 ME 331L 01 0430 ROSP 103 06 2328 ENOL 319A 01 1549 
9:15 420A 01 3394 

COMM 300 16 9716 GOVT 358 01 3544 ME 331L 02 0427 ROSP 230 01 3699 FIN 360 02 1565
Milar League 2(PG} 1:15, 4:30, 7:30, 430 01 3395 

10:00 COMM 303 18 9718 GOVT 491B 01 0332 ME 331L 03 0426 ROSP 318 01 2675 H!ST 319A 01 3583
443 01 1122

The Paper (RI 1:30, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 COMM 308 20 9720 GOVT 491F 01 0594 ME 331L 04 0425 ROSP 328 01 2340 HIST 458 01 2872 
n.-ne (R} 12:45, 3:00, 5:30, 7:45, 443 03 0035 

COMM 308 22 9722 GOVT 4910 01 0593 ME 339T 02 3095 ROSP 412 01 3702 MUS 220 01 3635
9:.50 543 03 0935 

COMM 384 28 9728 GOVT 49tH 01 3551 ME 339T 03 3096 soc 332 01 2615 PHIL 221 01 0172
543 04 3376 

COTH 210 01 0664 GSC 412F 01 3829 ME 470 01 1865 soc 390 01 3714 PHIL 247 01 3642
565 01 3365 COTH 377 01 2752 GSC 495 01 3835 MGT 231A 01 3157 soc 401 01 3917 PHIL 261 01 2016169 01 1128 

CSE 332L 01 1073 HESB 491 01 3884 MGT 240 04 1878 soc 429 01 3715 PSY 355 01 0652
436 01 3973

1'llllnllltlni(G} 4:45 CSE 332L 03 0604 HIST 311A 01 3581 MGT 240 06 1879 soc 430 01 3918 soc 430 01 3918 Jilnony llaftrwood (R} 5:00, 7::.1, 10:00 ZJIS 01 1147 ECON 401 01 3495 HIST 319A 01 3583 MGT 451 01 2890 soc 435 01 3919 THEO 282 01 0261 
Mn. Doob1llre (PG13} 4:15,7:00,9:45 362 01 1199 

ECON 421 01 3497 HIST 354 01 3586 MUS 220 01 3635 soc 445 01 3717 THEO 282 02 3740
llMinling Tea(PG13} 7:15, 9:30 363 01 1200 

ECON 434 01 3500 HIST 354A 01 3587 MUS 221 01 2372 soc 452 01 3718 THEO 290 01 0570 
-
Wednesday, April 13, 1994 The Observer • GOLF page 15 



Golf teams come out swinging in tournaments 

W!JAT TO DO WIT!J YOUR-Llfb.? 
0  Are you a single, Catholic woman?  
0  Are you independent and full of life?  
0  Are you committed to a simple lifestyle?  

If you are, call Sr. Margaret Hoffelder (219-422-6675) to wonder together how your life and ours might join to serve the world's poor. 

"DISCUSSION ON COLUMN WRITING" STUDENT UNION BOARD 
isher Katy Cooper. "We ac­
Klein, Murray 
complished the goal of defeat­
pace women 
ing a few quality teams such as Pepperdine and Illinois State. The team is proud to have ac­complished it." 
By ALLISON HANLON 
While some of the lady
Spons Writer 
linksters struggled, Klein and 
Entering the 1994 season, the Murray had impressive finishes Notre Dame women's golf team of fourth and fifth, respectively. bad their fair share of un-Klein shot a 79 in the final certainties. With the loss of round, which was the second coach Tom Hanlon and the best score of the seventy-two graduation of number one tournament players. player Kathy Phares, the Irish She took two strokes off last were searching for leadership year's average and rallied the on the course. The arrival of Irish with the help of co-cap­coach Ross Smith and the play tain Murray. 
of co-captains Chrissy Klein Murray finished the tourna­and Alicia Murray have put ment shooting an 83. "I hit the their uncertainties to rest. ball pretty well," said Murray, 
Although they had a disap-"but I need improvement with pointing start with a loss to my short game." Southern Florida, the women's Although they achieved their golf team has seen the fruition goal of coming in second at the of Coach Ross's influence in Boilermaker Invitational, they improving their "swings and still see room for improvement. mental attitude," according to "We have not peaked yet as a senior Murray. team," said Murray. 
The Irish showed their "We are looking for the same improvement at the type of performance, but our Boilermaker Invitational this goal is to win," agreed Katy past weekend at Purdue. De-Cooper. "We think we can." feating Pepperdine and Illinois With the goal for a first place State, the Irish finished second in mind, the women's golfers behind Ohio State. have two more tournaments, 
"We had a very encouraging including this weekend's Irish 


Unlikely duo leads Irish to third place 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
The struggling, inexperienced freshman and the first-year varsity senior. Not exactly the most likely sources for the two best perfor­mances of the weekend for the Notre Dame's men's golf team. 
However, much to coach George Thomas' sur­prise, he received such stellar performances from freshman Joel Hepler and senior Todd Klem. On the strength of their play, the Irish fin­ished a very respectful third out of 13 squads this past weekend at the Indiana Invitational. 
"We beat some very good teams this weekend, including Iowa and Ball St.," said Thomas. ''I'm very pleased, especially with the play of Klem and Hepler. They really surprised us. I think it's a pretty good indication of things to come." 
For now, though, the team has to be happy with the present. 
Hepler finished the two-round tournament with a score of 147 (74-73), good enough for a strong third place finish. 
"I was just looking for some consistency," said Hepler. "I finally found it." 
Klem's story is even more unlikely. He had tried out for the team the past three years and failed to make the team. This year, however, his perseverance paid off and was rewarded with a 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports lnfonnatlon Senior co-captain Chrissy Klein shot a low of 79 to lead the Irish to a second place finish in the Boilermaker Invitational. 
spot on the team as the fifth player. 
On Saturday, he took advantage of his opportu­nity and posted the low score of any Irish !inkster, an even par 72. 
"I ran into some trouble in my first round (81), but I got together and putted fairly well," said Klem, who finished in the 24th spot out of 70 golfers. "It was definitely good for my con­fidence." 

page 16 The Observer • BASEBALL Wednesay, April 13, 1994 
-Illinois-Chicago pays the Price in 14-1 rout 





Ever want to be coach for a day? Here's your chance ... 



Studertts... vote now to decide the starting line-up for the second game of the April 18 doubleheader against Cleveland State. 
Don't miss your only chance this season to make your vote count! 
Return ballot entries to the Observer-3rd Floor Lafortune •
•• Your All-Star Candidates: 
•

Center-Attn: Jenny Marten by 5:00pm Friday, Apri115. • • 
Then come to the game on Monday, Apri118 at 5:00pm. If • At catcher: Bob Lisanti and Dennis Twombley • : At first base: Robbie Kent and Kevin Tommasini : 
your entry" correctly chooses the starters, you will be 
• At second base: Greg Layson and Robbie Kent • entered into a drawing for a Notre Dame Baseball jacket •• At third base: Matt Haas and Mark Mapes •• 
which will be given away in the first inning of the second • At shortston: Paul Failla and Javier Fuentes •
• y • 
• In left field: Rowan Richards and Robby Birk •
game. You must be present at the game to win ...and stay 
: In center field: Scott Sollmann and Robby Birk :
in your seats, because ifthejacketis not claimed we'll draw 
• In right field: Ryan Topham and Mike Amrhein • another winner in the second, then the third. • and the desigiUlled hitters: George Restovich and Mark Mapes • 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
Senior lefthander Tom Price pitched six innings of one-hit baseball while the Irish offense rocked Illinois-Chicago pitchers in the 14-1 victory at Eck Sta­dium last night. 
Price (6-2) pitched a perfect game through four innings before Flames' designated hit­ter Jon Piazza slapped a single down the right field line with two outs in the fourth. Before he took himself out of the shutout after the sixth inning, Price had surrendered the lone hit to Piazza and walked none while striking out 10. 
"With a lead like that and all the games this weekend, I want to be rested so I can help out the team later this week," explained Price who doused the Flames with his fastball. 

Freshman lefty Paul Pryblo picked up right where Price left off taking the one-hitter into the ninth inning. In three in­nings on the mound, Pryblo gave up one run on one hit while walking four and striking out four for his second save of the year. 
UIC broke up the shutout in the top of the ninth when junior infielder Jody Brown doubled to score pinch hitter Greg Maza who walked. 
But the run was inconsequen­tial after the Irish (14-7) scored 14 runs on 14 hits in the game for their sixth straight victory. 
Pat Murphy was pleased with the efforts of his pitchers as well as his hitters. 
"We're feeling really good about ourselves. That didn't look like the team that beat Vanderbilt and Wake Forest earlier in the year," said Mur­phy. 
The Irish offense was unre­lenting. Designated hitter George Restovich, Robby Birk, Robbie Kent and Ryan Topham led the Irish hitters. Restovich (2-for-3) drove in four runs on a double and a home run. Kent (2-for-3, 2 RBI) and Topham (3­for-3) also turned in solid per­formances. 
Robby Birk reached base ev­ery time he stepped to the plate with two hits and three walks last night. 
Notre Dame did not waste any time taking an early lead 
The Observer/Jake Peters Rightfielder Ryan Topham went 3-for-3 as the Notre Dame offense exploded for 14 runs against Illinois­Chicago. 
with eight runs in the first inning. Greg Layson drew a walk to open the game. Scott Sollmann and Paul Failla fol­lowed with back-to-hack singles to load the bases. 
Kent responded as he has several times this year with a two-run double. Mark Mapes' sacrifice fly to right scored Failla before Restovich crushed a two-run roundtripper to deep right field. It was the sopho­more's second homer in as many games and it knocked UIC starter Matt Gruca out of the game. 
Singles from Birk and Topham and a walk for Bob Lisanti loaded the bases again. Two runs scored when UIC shortstop Dan Darrah bobbled the ball and another crossed the plate on a fielder's choice to bring the first inning score to 8­0 in favor of the Irish. 
Birk put the Irish on the board in the second with a booming two-run home run 
Call x2169 and 
wish Nora a 
Happy 

Birthday! We Love you! E, Donz, Bakes, Jules, Beth 
over the scoreboard in left field, and Restovich added two more in the third with a two-run dou­ble. 
The Flames shut down the Irish offense in the fourth and fifth innings, but Notre Dame picked up two more runs in the sixth inning when Craig De­Sensi's single brought Rowan Richards and Failla across the plate to raise the Irish advan­tage to 14-0. 
Gruca (0-1) took the loss for the Flames after surrendering five runs on four hits in just one-third of an inning. UIC used three other pitchers in the con­test, the last of which, John Gerlach was perfect in the final three frames with six strike­outs. 
Tomorrow, the Irish are scheduled to face Michigan (13­
15) in Ann Arbor, but the Michigan field has been drenched by 11 inches of rain recently and the game might have to be rescheduled. 

Wednesday, April 13, 1994 The Observer • FOOTBALL page 17 
to in the near future. forward and tell the truth; that and people to act this way, but I Graham admitted to spending they didn't see me do anything. would hope they would look at



Graham. Moore ­
time in apartment 332L at The And I hope they are not getting the fact that I have never done 
continued from page 20 
this, but because I am a foot­ball player in the spotlight, everyone wants to know what happens. Everyone thinks ath­letes get away with a lot of stuff, but being a football play­er has nothing to do with the way I am being treated. I want everyone to know I am being treated like any other student." 
The junior sociology and ed­ucation major said that he has had conversations with Notre Dame security police but did not feel it was appropriate to talk about those meetings. He also said he had not met with Irish coach Lou Holtz but plans Pointe, (the residence where police confiscated property stolen from the Notre Dame campus) but said he never lived there. "There is no one who could say I lived there except my roommates on campus, 
and they will 
Tracy Graham 
tell you that I have been liv­ing in my dorm." 
Graham also had a few words for the individual(s) who ac­cused him of this crime. 
"I would like to tell the per­son(s) who accused me to come thrills by seeing me suffer and persecuted by the media and the students." 

Since the announcement of the absence of Graham and teammate Mike Miller from spring practices, much specula­tion has circled campus con­cerning the reasons. Graham said those rumors have been a source of trouble for himself, his family, and his friends. 
"Everywhere I walk people talk about the accusations, peo­ple call my room for infor­mation. They harass my room­mates. I can't even eat on cam­pus or go to a Bookstore bas­ketball game. I understand that I put myself in this posi­tion, that I forced the media anything wrong here. 

"This has been very embar­rassing to me and to my family and friends back home in Chicago. I have talked to my mother and told her everything that took place, and she is very concerned. She really doesn't understand what it means be­ing a football player at Notre Dame." 
Graham said he takes full re­sponsibility for his actions and is very concerned with the ef­fect this is having on his family, his teammates, and the Uni­versity. 
"I want to apologize to my family, the University and to my teammates. After my family comes my teammates and I know that they are having to 
continued from page 20 
In last Saturday's scrimmage, Moore played an instrumental role in the defense's domina­tion of the offense. He broke up two passes and had three tackles, one that kept sopho­more receiver Derrick Mayes from gaining a first down on a key fourth down play. 
"The defense played well overall," he said Saturday. "The offense has some injured players, though. So it's not the same when some of those guys are out." 
Moore understands the prob­lems with being out. Having spent a year off, he has had plenty of time to plan a come­back. In hopes of making his determined bid for a starting 
-
~-----------­
page 18 


-Lax secures crucial regional victory 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
Coming off their sloppiest performance of the year, the Notre Dame lacrosse team shrugged off some second pe· riod difficulties to respond with a 18-10 victory over host Butler yesterday in their first of four conference games. 
With such a brief slate of league games, each contest is crucial to Notre Dame's NCAA tournament hopes. The Irish need to win all four to qualify for their fourth appearance in five years. 
The Irish successfully took the first step against Butler, but not without a struggle. 
"We needed to step it up a bit after Saturday," said sopho­more Brian Gilfillan, who tal­lied twice for the Irish. "For the most part, we did. We struggled a bit in the second but were able step it back up." 
The fast-starting Irish once again took charge of the game early, as they jumped out to a 6-1 first period lead. Senior attackman Robbie Snyder was instrumental in the spurt, as he scored a pair in the stretch. 
Notre Dame extended the margin to 9-2 early in the sec­ond period and appeared to be putting the game out of reach of the Bulldogs. 
To their credit, Butler man­aged to stabilize, and proceed· ed to rip off five unanswered goals before halftime, slicing the lead to a mere two goals. 
"We slacked off a bit men­tally." said Gilfillan. "It was frustrating, but we maintained our composure and were able to keep our heads. We weren't nervous, but we knew we had to get back into it mentally." 

After each squad scored twice in the third period, the Irish regained control of the game in the fourth. 
Notre Dame stretched the lead to 14-9, as they ran off three consecutive goals to start the final frame. 
After Butler had somewhat slowed the tide with a goal of their own, the Irish delivered the knockout punch, ending the game with four more tallies. 
Complimenting Snyder and Gilfillan was the all-time Irish goal-scorer Randy Colley. The senior tri-captain continued to rewrite the record book as he found the back of the net twice. 
Also scoring multiple goals for coach Kevin Corrigan were freshman midfielder Bill Hogan and defenseman Mike Iorio. 
"Io (Iorio) played a superb game," noted Gilfillan. "He cut down on his penalties and re­ally helped us keep our compo­sure. Plus, it's great any time a defenseman scores, never mind twice." 
The victory was crucial for the Irish in that it got them back on track and ready to make their run into the tourna­ment. 
"This was a good, solid Mid­western win. We have to win the rest of our conference games now that Michigan St won," said Gilfillan. "If we do that, we achieve one of our goals. Right now, our chances are looking fantastic if we play like were capable of." 
-
---------------------------~-----------------­

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Junior defenseman Mike Iorio tallied two goals as the Irish defeated regional rival Butler 18-10. 
C. Everett Koop, M.D., SC.D. 
Former Surgeon General under Reagan and Bush 
"U.S. Health Care. Where Do We Go From Here?" 
Thursday, April14 7PM Stepan Center 
$3 Students, Faculty, and Staff $5 General Public 
Reception to follow in the Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
TlcMJia A~t} 1M LIIFortiJM 1nlo Dlllllr. 
Sponsored by: 
Student Government 

•--­




Melissa Etheridge
and 


Matthew Sweet 
performing at the 

Morris Civic Auditorium 
Apri/14 8:00p.m. 

COs and Cassettes 
available at 




Musicland 

Wednesday, April13, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-





-




SPORTS 
page 20 

No word on accused players 

By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
There was little word from the Notre Dame athletic de­partment or the University se­curity police concerning foot­ball players Mike Miller and Tracy Graham. 
The two juniors were linked to stolen property confiscated at an off-campus residence last Friday. Initial reports obtained by The Observer said only a television was confiscat­ed from the apartment, No. 332L at The Pointe of St. Joseph, but supplementary reports obtained Monday showed a VCR was also found. 
Notre Dame Director of Security, Rex Rakow, said Monday that two students are being investigated for stolen merchandise but could not name the students. 

St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael P. Barnes talked yes­terday with members of Notre Dame security about the case. 
"I have reviewed the search warrant and the information provided with the return of the search warrant," Barnes told the South Bend Tribune. "I have requested Notre Dame police continue the investiga­tion. I have asked them to compile more information so that we can make a decision about any prosecution in this case." 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz would not comment on the matter, but Sports Information Director John Heisler outlined the position of the athletic department. 
'We are not in a position to make any comment on the matter," said Heisler. "These are matters being handled by Notre Dame security and when they make a decision then we will assess the situation. But neither player has been kicked ofT the team, they are just not participating in spring drills at this time." 
Several student sources linked Miller and Graham to the apartment and further investigation showed that Miller had been paying phone and gas service at the apart­ment, according to records held by Ameritech and the Northern Indiana Public Service Co. 
The serial number on the two confiscated items matches numbers on items reported stolen from the Notre Dame campus in January. The television was reported stolen on January 23, 1994, and the VCR was stolen from Siegfried Hall on Jan. 17. 

Wednesday, April 13, 1994 
Graham: 'It's a misunderstanding' 
ByGEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor · 

In the wake of accusatioll5 of theft·and an iUVt}Stigation by Notre Dame security police, football player Tr~cy Granam . maintained that he is innocent and that questions regarding his possession of stolen mer­chandise are the tc:1su1t ofa misunderstanding. 
"This is all speculation. I feel lik(;l .lwas targetedbecaus(;l of an argument between myself and a girl." Graham said. "I was In the wrong. place at the wrong time, and I have nothing to hide." 
Graham would not. discuss in detail the accusations that he was involved in thefts that oc­cur.r~d on campus in January but wished to express his con~ cerns about the events of the past few days. . "The fact that I haven't had any cOnflict or anything bad happen at Notre Dame is not even being considered in this situation. I would hope that the student body would look at my history frrst. They have started judging me before anyihing has been confirmed, and I have never committed a criminal act. This is all speculation." 


· Graham said he feels his sit­uation stems from a misunder­standing and has received extra attention because he is an athlete. . "I like to think, bei.Iig at Notre Dame; that being black or an athlete has nothing to do wiih see GRAHAM I page 17 



LaRon Moore looks to make an impact in the Irish secondary as a fifth-year senior next year. 


One Moore go round 
Fifth-year senior LaRon Moore to return to Irish secondary 
By MIKE NORBUT Assistant Sports Editor 
LaRon Moore has returned to the Notre Dame football team incognito. 
The senior defensive back walked into the first day of drills this spring wearing number nine, the jersey worn by three-year starter and Irish sec­ondary star Jeff Burris. 

That's pretty gutsy considering he has a lot to prove to his old team­mates. 
''I'm working hard and trying to do the best I can," Moore said. "Hopefully I can get a job on the first or second team. I'm just taking it one day at a time." 
Moore missed last year's season due to problems with academics, an event that has made him take a step back and recognize the important things in life. 
"Last year was unfortunate," he continued. "I didn't put things in per­spective and I let my grades slip. It made me realize my opportunities." 
And opportunities abound for the Indianapolis, IN native. "We've had some losses in the sec­
ondary due to graduation," Moore said. "That means that players like myself, Travis Davis, LeShane Saddler, and others that have not had much playing time need to step up." 
With the losses of starters Burris, Greg Lane, and John Covington, along with the coaching staffs decision to move cornerback Bobby Taylor to free safety, the secondary has been left like a puzzle with a few of pieces. missing. 
And Moore has the possibility to become the perfect fit. 
The senior has worked his way up to the first team this spring, earning a preliminary starting role at corner­back opposite junior Brian Magee. 
see MOORE I page 17 

JOCK STRIP 

Togas, Helmets, and Upsets 
W
ere can 
omeone 

watch bas­ketball players in togas, helmets, san­dals, and skirts? Where else can stu­dents listen to a trum­peter and watch their peers play basketball than at Stepan Courts during the middle of April? For the past twenty three years at Notre Dame, Bookstore Basketball has been the venue for all these crazy occurrences during the spring season. 
This year has not been any different. Even though the tournament has not even completed the first round, there have been some interesting games at Lyons, the Bookstore, and at Stepan. Dining hall talk and late night dorm con­versations have become dominated by questions about who's playing who, when, and where. 
A top 32 team lost by two points in the rain (R.S.V.P). There was an overtime game on Saturday that Head Com­missioner Emeritus Andy Sinn called the most intense first round game he's ever seen in his four years at Notre Dame (5X vs Straight Butta, Baby). Some top seeds won in blowouts as expected (NBT, Vi­to's Barber Shop, Magnolia Thunder). Crazy costumes and unorthodox basket­ball teams have had their time in the spotlight (Nuns on the Run II, Helmet Nightmares, Jesus McKinley and the Rotund Weeds) Besides all this, there has been some solid team basketball (How Hot is Red Hot?, The Hood River Bandits). 
The best thing about what's happened so far is that this tournament is just get­ting its engine fired up for a week that will separate the men from the boys and girls. 

see BOOKSTORE I page 14 

-





