~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Tuesday, November 8, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.47 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Closing arguments in Rita trial to be held today 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
Defense attorney Charles Asher concluded his case this morning, but the jury would have to wait one more day be­fore it could begin deliberating the fate of Notre Dame Law School graduate John Rita. 
Rita, 25, of Springfield, Vir­ginia, is charged in St. Joseph County Superior Court with causing the death of 18 year old Notre Dame freshman Mara Fox while driving drunk, and leaving the scene of an acci­dent. 
Fox was returning to campus with a group of friends, after a cab they ordered at a Grape Road restaurant never showed up. She was struck and killed in a hit-and-run accident as she walked along Douglas Road in the early morning hours of November 13. 
As the trial began its third week, a logistical problem pre­vented the attorneys from pre­senting their closing argu­ments, and in turn prevented Judge William Albright from instructing the jury on their de­liberations. 
Prosecutor Michael Barnes asked the judge if he could bring the cracked windshield of Rita's 1989 Honda Accord into court for his closing statement. After Albright allowed the mo­tion, Barnes said he police told him of problems in bringing the windshield to the courtroom without damaging it. 

The cracked windshield was removed from Rita's car and placed in a similar model Ac­cord, to allow it to be observed by the jury last week on a field trip to the Saint Joseph County Police garage. In order to view the windshield in court Barnes told the court that the car would have to be cut in half, and delivered to the courtroom, and that the process would take some time. 

Upon receiving that news, Judge Albright decided to ad­journ for the day to allow the halved car to be brought in. The jury was sent home, and Albright decide closing argu­ments will be heard tomorrow beginning at 9 a.m., and the jury will be instructed shortly thereafter. 
Before the defense rested, Barnes continued his cross-ex­amination of Rita, who began his testimony Friday. 
During that questioning, Rita continued to maintain that he was not intoxicated or impaired at the time of the accident. He reiterated his contention that he only consumed three beers and one shot of liqueur that evening. 
"This terrible accident did not happen because of alcohol," Rita testified. 
Rita again told the court as he did Friday that he no idea what may have caused the thud he and his four passengers heard while they drove west towards campus on Douglas Road, just after midnight. 
"I had no clue as to what the sound was," said Rita. He said he saw nothing above the ground to indicate what the sound might have been. 
Rita said he did not realize something serious may have happened until his front seat passenger pointed out cracks in the windshield and suggested that Rita pulled the car over. Rita denied Barnes' contention that Rita was attempting to avoid responsibility and evade police by driving the loop that he did, instead of pulling his vehicle over immediately. 
When he fmally pulled the car over in a parking lot on Grape Road, Rita told the court his mental perspective changed. He again attempted to describe his state, as an unique experience in his life. 
"After we saw the windshield, things were not logical," said Rita. Time lost its continuity, and "things did not seem real," he said. 
The fog Rita detailed contin­ued as he and his friends made their way back to Rita's Uni­versity Park apartment, and tried to decide what to do. Rita testified that his memories of this time are hazy and frag­mented. 
Rita said he did remember 
see RITA I page 4 

Strides made in Eck assaults Notre Dame influence 
'Great police work' leads to arrests 
By LIZ FORAN Associate News Editor 
Two suspects were arrested in the Eck Tennis Pavilion as­saults which occurred in Septemb.er, announced Director of Notre Dame Security Rex Hakow. 
Charles K. O'Hara III, 19, of Mishawaka and Jonathan J. Hoffer, 19, also of Mishawaka were arrested Sunday after they confessed to the attacks during police questioning, Rakow said. They were each charged with two counts of class B felony robbery and one count each of class C felony robbery. 
The assaults happened in the middle of September, on the 6th, the 20th and the 29th, near the Eck Pavilion. In three separate incidents, lone male walkers were approached by two men who took their belong­ings. In one incident, a student said one of the men looked as if he had a stun gun. In another incident, a fourth person, a stu­dent, was assaulted when he came to the aid of another stu­dent. 
The area is frequently used as a short cut by many off-cam­pus students living in the Campus View and Turtle Creek apartment complexes en route to and from campus. 
The arrests occurred in a joint effort between the Mishawaka Police and Notre 


Assault Arrests Made 
Cunpus st:Luriry .umouno.:d ycstcrd.ty th.u .tncsts h.td hem m.tdc in 
connection wirh rhe ()crober 3 ass.udrs rh.tr rook on Courtney l~mc 
ncar rhe Eck ·rt:nnis P,willion. 
Eck Tennis Pavillion 
Dame Security, Rakow said. "One of our detectives was pulling cases from Mishawaka files and going over them, try­ing to find similarities between cases," he said. "We found a purse snatching that was very similar and this led to the ques­tioning of these two men." 
"It was a total departmental effort," Rakow said, adding that over 300 hours were spent on stake-out by officers at the Eck Pavilion, in addition to the 
~ 
N 
"0 
0
= 

~ Turtle Creek ~ 
=
~ 
00 

many hours spent by detectives pouring over cases from other departments. 
"It was great police work," he said. 
Rakow added that he wanted to thank everyone for their help in coming forward with infor­mation involving the case. 
"We really appreciate bits of information and identifica­tions," he said. "It really helped put all the pieces of the puzzle together." 
50 YEARS~ 
,.~!­




;' rn 
~ 
I 
·,ih:"' . ~ 
. t 1.; .<i#.
-,., 
-• ~ _jf 
~ 
SAINT
• 


'Y'S ~ 
t ()I. I I <;I 
t"" 
~ NOTR£ DAME·IN ~ 

in Jamaica increasing 
ByNANCY DUNN 
Assistant News Editor 
When most people think of Jamaica, they think of a land of beaches and reggae. What many people are unaware of, however, is Notre Dame's in­creasing presence on the is­land. 
Over fall break, University President Malloy made a short but productive visit to increase Notre Dame's visibility on the island. Although he was only in Jamaica for two nights and one day, he managed to cram in a full schedule of meet­ings with academic, govern­ment, business, and Church leaders. 
The Notre Dame contingent in Jamaica is estimated at around 30 people. Although a small number, the group enjoys a fair amount of prominence on the island, according to Malloy, and "has great potential as a source of good." 
Malloy spoke with leaders about ethical questions espe­cially in regards to the break­down of law and order on the island, the direction of Ja­maican education, and the rela­tion between the United States and Jamaica and the Caribbean. 
The land is full of natural re­sources and ,therefore, has great potential. Jamaica also has an interesting ethnic and cultural mix, with all elements of the population enjoying a presence in the leadership class, according to Malloy. 

But before that potential can be realized, the leaders need to address the crime issue and get their economy together, said Malloy. 
Jamaica has a population of roughly two million people, half of whom live in Kingston, the capital city, according to Malloy. As with any large city, Kingston is plagued by crime and poverty. The violent Jamaican posses, drug running groups, pose an especially diffi­cult problem for government officials, he said. 
Malloy visited the Mustard Seed Project in the heart of Kingston. It was established by a Jamaican diocesan priest to help combat the problems of the inner city. The organiza­tion offers a wide variety of ser­vices, such as food and educa­tion programs, and self help projects, according to Malloy. 
Mustard Seed provides shel­ter for mentally and physically handicapped children, who have been abandoned, and for pregnant young women, whose families are unable to care for them. 
In order to pay for these ser­vices, the organization runs several fundraising activities. 
One of the more successful projects has been greeting cards made from banana leaves and bark, said Malloy. 
In addition to the problems of 
see JAMAICA I page 4 page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, November 8, 1994 

• INSIDE COLUMN 

Will the porch light still be on to01orrow? 
Election '94 may well represent a sign of the times-an enormous cau­tion flag on the informa­tion highway, if you will. In California alone, not only will a Senate seat be determined by a $40 mil­lion crap shoot but a statewide petition to elimi­nate social services and health care for illegal immigrants has put crime and pollution on the backburner so a new, less encompassing morality might emerge. This does not bode well for preserving national character-if such a thing exists-or for creating a national identi­ty worth embracing for the 21st century. 
California consistently serves as the political gopher for the rest of the nation, particularly now as it begins to confront what being a melt­ing pot reallly means. 
The attitude towards illegal immigrants in Prop 187 is alarming, as is the atmosphere which created it. Sure their collective cost to society is enormous, and that there are many legal immigrants who go through the proper channels and pay taxes as citizens. Every soci­ety will have free-riders, but not every society permits itself to become so disenfranchised from its founding ideals and so numbed by its lapses of morality. How many more mothers who murder their children will it take for us to realize our falling collective morality? 
Prop 187 is a quick fix solution to a deeply rooted problem. For the first time, Americans are having to confront the negative side of being the Super Power at a personal, individual level-and, for the most part, we are not will­ing to accept that responsibility. Pretty shock­ing considering that our national identity, in recent years, has been formed by our involve­ment in some not so American affairs, by extending our sphere of influence to the entire planet. 
Problems between Mexico and the United States have always existed; yet as the U.S., and its citizens, keep getting wealthier, the appar­ent economic difference with its Third World neighbor to the south dramatically increases. 
This idea can be applied to a global level as well. Technological advancement and econom­ic development have enabled growth and industry to progress at astonishing rates. And as the U.S. progresses and projects its skewed value system based on material wealth to a global scale through trade, communication and entertainment, it refuses to deal with the ensu­ing effects it will inevitably have upon other nations. This becomes especially problematic and disturbing when foreigners who embrace these values come "home" to America. 
Illegal immigration in California is a precur­sor to what soon will be confronting the rest of the nation. We have placed a moral strangle hold upon ourselves. We are insistent upon our CD's and cable TV, we cannot imagine a life without processed foods and fossil fuels, we let Senate races be determined by the biggest purse-sacriftce and responsibility have com­pletely escaped our collective morality. 
So what do we do about it? First, we must recognize the problem and admit that it is not the fault of the illegal alien or any other exter­nal factor. Then Americans must realize that California's predicament is a precursor to a national crisis, that it is only a matter of time when blatant bigotry becomes public policy. We conquer this by voting according to our hearts as well as our minds, and realizing that everything America does as a nation its people must accept the responsibility for as moral individuals. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


• TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Kate Crisham  Eric Ruethling  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Production  
Viewpoint  Belle Bautista  
Rae Sikula  Whitney Sheets  
Mike O'Hara  Sports  
Accent  Dave Treacy  
Carolyn Wilkens  Graphics  
Mary Good  Tom Roland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Jews and Muslims criticize security measures at Hebron 
HEBRON, West Bank.---------------------------,space, and protested the 
Separated by a steel Tomb of the Patriarchs wall and dozens of sol-New security measures are in diers, Jews once again place at the Tomb of the swayed in prayer shawls Patriarchs, where 8 Jewish
settler killed 29 Muslims in

and Muslims knelt in February. Included are: worship Monday at the ~Separateentrances Tomb of the Patriarchs. ~Electronic doors 
Members of both faiths ~Twosetsofmetaldetectol'll 
~16 cloaedoi:lrcult television 

were angry about securi-cameraa ty arrangements imposed ~Intercomewlth at the holy site, reo.pen-alarm buttons ing eight months after a Brooklyn-born Jewish settler, Baruch Goldstein, shot 29 Muslims to death as they knelt in prayer. 
Jews were allotted the crypts of Abraham and Jacob, while the Muslims were assigned the larger Isaac Hall. Metal detec­tors, closed circuit TV and separate walkways and washrooms were installed in an attempt to avoid confrontations, but they only appeared to be aggravating tensions. 
Muslims complained the security measures cut up their mosque and forced them to pass through too many securi­ty checks. Jews said they affront to their proprietary feeling for the entire bur­ial site of their forefathers. 
Both sides regard Abraham, called Ibrahim by Muslims, as a major prophet of their religions. "This spells ghetto for me because of the separa­tion," said Efraim Rosenstien, 25, from the Jewish settlement of Kiryat Arba, just outside Hebron. Dozens of Jews braved rain and temperatures in the 40s to visit the site, pausing at the crypt of Abraham to murmur prayers. Occasionally they burst into robust chants as they carried aloft the Torah, the Jewish holy book. Muslims were more hes­itant, either intimidated by the hundreds of Israeli soldiers on Hebron's streets or boycotting the prayers to protest the security measures. Their numbers increased gradu­ally during each of the five daily prayers. 

lost the cave's holiest 

Gingrich defends campaign tactics 
SMYRNA, Ga. 
Newt Gingrich came under fire Monday for using the South Carolina child-murder case to urge voters to back GOP candidates. The House Republican whip, asked by two elemen­tary school teachers why he had tried to make an issue of the Union, S.C., moth­er who confessed to drowning her two sons, insisted that his comments had 

been taken out of context and distorted by the media. Gingrich said he wasn't trying to link the slayings to Democratic policies but simply was using that case as an example of why "we have to have very deep, very big changes." During an interview with The Associated Press on Saturday, Gingrich was asked how the campaign was going in the final week. "Slightly more moving our way," he replied. 

Sears gives up tower in refinancing 
CHICAGO 
The world's tallest building is getting a new owner. Sears, Roebuck and Co. said Monday it will transfer own­ership of the 110-story Sears Tower in a restructuring of the building's financing. The building's name will remain the same, and Sears will keep its corporate headquarters in the tower under a lease that expires in the year 2000. The black steel-and-glass monolith was designed by American architect Fazlur Khan and completed in 1973. It is 1,454 feet tall, topping the World Trade Center in New York City by 86 feet. The agreement to transfer ownership to a pension fund partnership managed by Boston-based Aldrich, Eastman & Waltch will reduce Sears' debt by $850 million, Sears said. Sears will record a $195 million gain, after taxes, in the fourth quarter as a result of the transaction. 

Navy sex scandal: Favors for grades 
SAN DIEGO 

After Tailhook, the Navy made its sailors and aviators 
go to sexual harassment seminars. It gave them hot line 
numbers to report problems. And it sternly warned any­
one that harassment would hurt careers. And yet another 
scandal has emerged, this time at a Navy training school 
where seven instructors are accused of sexually harass­
ing their students. No charges have been nied and the 
investigation is far from over, said Lt. Patrick Dennison, a 
Navy spokesman. But the furor has critics wondering 
whether the Navy will ever change. "I think it's business 
as usual," said Charles Burner, a civilian lawyer with 40 
years of experience on military cases. "Some people are 
being careful, not because they have learned how to 
behave but out of a fear of being caught." Instructors at 
the Training Center in San Diego are accused of verbally 
and physically badgering 16 female students. The alleged 
abuse occurred over 18 months. 

Slain and injured journalists honored 
NEW YORK 

Four Tajikistan journalists who were slain or disap­
peared during the civil war in the former Soviet republic 
will be honored with International Press Freedom 
Awards from the Committee to Protect Journalists. 
Awards also will go to journalists, some of whom suffered 
death threats or imprisonment, in Sri Lanka, Turkey, 
Cuba and Hong Kong. The committee, a nonprofit organi­
zation founded to monitor abuses and promote press 
freedom, will present its fourth annual awards 
Wednesday. It said the four Tajikistan journalists were 
among 26 reporters and editors it believes have been 
assassinated in the former Soviet republic since 1992. 
Most of the killings were believed to be the work of the 
People's Front, which backs former Communists who 
overthrew a coalition government two years ago. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Tuesday, Nov. 8 Accu-Weather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 8. 


Atlanta  78  49  Dallas  72  50  New Orleans 78 61  
Baltimore  75  50  Denver  64  36  New York  70 47  
Boston  66  47  Los Angeles 73  51  Philadelphia  70 48  
Chicago  55  35  Miami  84  73  Phoenix  80  55  
Columbus 66  32  Minneapolis 51  39  St. Louis  67  36  

--~--------~---------------­



BOG key to student governiDentsuccess 
President praises efforts of Board 
By LAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's News Editor 
This year's student govern­ment is going full speed ahead, according to student body pres­ident Noha El-Ganzouri, but the most notable challenge in the beginning was getting Board of Governance working together smoothly. 
Like any campus group work­ing together toward a common goal, it is difficult to get efforts started. 
"It's not easy to get the ball rolling but I must remember that (board members) are stu­dents first," said El-Ganzouri. "I don't want to overuse them but being on the board requires a lot and these students were selected for their position because they are qualified." 
"I want to compliment BOG on their efforts," she continued. "I am very pleased at the intel­ligence of the students and that they are listening to what's go­ing on and doing research. We are not just a group talking about our own things, we pull together to address student in­terests," said El-Ganzouri. 
Susan Osinski, executive sec­retary for BOG agreed that the board was getting a lot accom­plished this year and that there were more involved people this year. 
"As long as we have a plan to follow things run smoothly be­cause if we have an objective we are more productive," said Osinski. "This year we have been even more productive than I anticipated." 



ND hosts authors Lieu, Neville 
By DAVID RING Assistant News Editor 
As part of the creative writ­ing program's visiting writers series, award-winning authors Susan Neville and Jocelyn Lieu will read from their work this evening in the Hesburgh Library facuity lounge. 
Neville's story collection, "The Invention of Flight," earned the Flannery O'Connor Award for Short Fiction in 1984. She has won two fellow­ships from the National Endowment for the Arts, two Pushcart Prizes, and an Indiana Arts Commission Fellowship, as well. She teaches at Butler University. 
Valerie Sayers, director of the creative writing program, describes Neville as "a literary writer." 
Neville, who has written a number of recent essays, often focuses on the Midwest. Included in her work is a piece on John Cougar Mellencamp. 
An interesting stylist, Sayers says Neville is concerned with narrative voice and often turns her midwestern images around "in a startling way." 
Jocelyn Lieu's fiction has ap­peared in "Charlie Chan is Dead: An Anthology of Contemporary Asian-Americans Writers." Lieu has several journalism awards and has been awarded residencies from the Millay Colony for the Arts, the Ucross Foundation, and the Bread Loaf Writers Conference. Lieu teaches at Purdue University. 
Lieu began her career as a journalist, yet now writes fic­tion and poetry. Sayers said she is excited to have her speak because so many students wanting to write for a career are torn between journalism and fiction. Lieu is obviously able to give some insights to these students, she said. 
Tonight's readings are spon­sored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series. The visiting writers series, according to Sayers, is trying to bring in working writers year round. She hopes students can "get a good dose" of different kinds of writers. Sayers also hopes the readings will appeal to those who just love fiction; these readings provide those people an opportunity to see and meet with authors from across the country. 
Sayers looks upon the series as an extension of the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
The morning after their talks, Neville and Lieu will meet with graduate students. This is extremely useful for graduate students as they have the chance to meet one on one with a working writer. 
Sayers said Henry Weinfield is slated to talk on December 7th. He recently finished a translation of poetry and is a member of the Program for Liberal Studies at Notre Dame. 

Three MBA students capture PNC Challenge 
By MELISSA HARRAKA News Writer 
A team of three Notre Dame 
M.B.A. students, who competed in the fourth annual PNC Bank Challenge, a contest sponsored by the PNC Bank of Pittsburgh, won the Challenge and three $1,000 scholarships. 
The Notre Dame team trav­eled to Pittsburgh on Friday, October 28 and defeated stu­dents from Ohio State Univer­sity and two top-20 M.B.A. schools, the University of Rochester and the University of Indiana. 
In September, the team members Andrea Edington, Brian Moore, and Dan Schock­ling were presented with an ac­tual commercial lending case from the PNC Bank. 
The students were given a week to do industry research and market and financial analysis to prepare and submit a three-page executive summa­ry and letter to the bank cus­tomer stating whether they accepted or denied the loan and why. 
After placing first out of eight Notre Dame teams, Edington, Moore, and Schockling earned the right to compete in Pitts­burgh. They were accompa­nied by their advisor, Associate Professor of finance and busi­ness economics John Halloran. 

In Pittsburgh, the Notre Dame team made their presen­tation again to different mem­bers of a PNC loan committee. They were permitted to refine and revise for the national com­petition, but were not allowed to alter their work. 
The loan committee at Pitts­burgh judged the teams on the 
WHAT 'L8 AN URBAN PLUN!lE? 
* 
4 8 h.our experience in an inner city of your ch.oice 

* 
Durint;J the. weeh-of January 3 -10 th ( c!a.tes are ch.osen by th.e h.ost site) 


* See soup ~itch.ens, sh.dters, wdfare a.qencies, etc. 
* 
TaLh. to h.omdess people, 

* 
nut others wh.o are tryinq to mau [i.fe better for people, of poverty 




Re4:Ji.strations avai!af:>[e. at the. Center for Socia{. Concerns and Campus ntni-stry -UN:O Campus :M.i,ni.stry, Justice Education Office and nu.Lticu.LturaL Offices -snc 'Th.e Office of JiCC 

depth of their research, their analysis of the case and why they accepted or rejected the loan. 
"The Challenge is effective in putting our students in a real­life banking situation, " Director of M.B.A. Career Development Joyce Manthay said. 
"There is also a lot of market­ing and selling involved be­cause everyone basically comes up with the same ratios," Moore said. 
According to Professor Hallo­ran, winning the PNC Bank Challenge is important for these students because it is a "presti­gious competition and there are a lot of good schools that par­ticipate." 
The contest is widely known among employers as well, and therefore provides the ·students with great exposure in the job market. 
"It shows initiative that you went above and beyond what you're required to do because participation is voluntary. It also shows to employers that you can work well in a team, which is key nowadays," An­drea Edington said. 
However, all three of the stu­dents consider the benefits of winning the competition to ex­tend far beyond personal recog­nition and reward. 
Brian Moore explained, "Even though we're really happy for ourselves that we won, a lot of people should be proud because it is a direct result of things we have gained from the program here. Hopefully, this will give the Notre Dame M.B.A. stu­dents the recognition they deserve." 


r-----------------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 8, 1994 
at one time, English is spoken, visit the three Catholic high about what they are doing and student volunteers was a good but it is falling out of favor and schools that are presently em­in turn the schools have been opportunity to bring members

JaJilaica 

the use of the colloquial patois ploying four recent graduates of receptive to the students, ac­of the Notre Dame community 
continued from page 1 
crime and poverty. people on the island feel they are in the midst of an education crisis, he said. They are worried about the lowering of academic stan­dards, added Malloy. Because the island was a British colony 


Rita 
continued from page 1 
police awakening him early that morning, and being placed under arrest. He again denied saying anything to the effect of "I can't believe my friends turned me in." 
"I was more relieved (when police arrived)," Rita told the court. "Finally, someone would know what to do." 
While IHta admitted under questioning that he did not ask the officers what had happened or press them to give him the results of his breath test, he said he did so only in the spirit of cooperation. 

"All I was trying to do was co­operate, to be as helpful as I could. The police would tell me what I needed to know when I needed to know it," said Rita. "I was not going to tell them their business." 
continued from page 1 

university does so to comply with school guidelines and United States Federal Regula­tions regarding a student's right to privacy, she said. 
McCarthy said that the Mc­Carthy/Fox family wished to express only their displeasure with the administration, and did not want to convey the im­pression that they were upset with the University as a whole. 
is increasing. 

Although only 10% of the is­land is Catholic, many families send their children to the Catholic schools because the better schools are run under Catholic auspices, according to Malloy. 
Malloy had an opportunity to 
Rita said his foggy mental state was largely responsible for decisions he characterized as "not the best." 
He told Barnes, "I know it's difficult, to put myself in my shoes. You weren't there. But try to understand the feelings of stress and anxiety I had after seeing the windshield." 
The prosecution attempted to call a rebuttal witness, regard­ing the defense's statements about the accuracy of the Intox­ilizer blood alcohol level test­ing machine. 
Judge Albright agreed with Asher's motion prohibiting Barnes' witness. 
Albright concurred with Ash­er's contentions that the prose­cution failed to give the defense adequate notice of the witness' identity, and that the area of testimony was already covered in previous testimony. 

faculty," said McCarthy. "The love and support we have re­ceived in our visits here and while at home have meant the world to us." 
She cited the support of Sister Kathleen Beatty, the women of Lyons. Hall and the men of Morrissey Hall as particularly inspiring and helpful during the trial process. 
"We want to thank everyone for their cards, thoughts, and prayers," said McCarthy. 

At Last, Term Life at Rates You Can Live With. Annual Premiums When it comes to protecting the for $250,000 Coverage* financial security of your family or Age Male Female business, term life insurance is one of the best investments you can make. Take a 25 $198 $160 moment to compare these rates with what 35 $198 $160 you are paying now. If your current rates are 45 $245 $210 too high, give us a call. Because we represent 55 $475 $325 several national insurance companies, we are 65 $1463 $773 confident we can find the best life insurance *Non-tobacco preferred rates value for you. Smoker rates available upon request. How Much Coverage Do You Need? Perhaps you feel you need more life insurance, but you are unsure as to how much coverage you should have. Call the Healy Company. We'll help you calcu­late the proper amount of coverage required to meet the needs of your family or business. We'll also help you structure your life insurance program to avoid pay­ing unnecessary taxes on the proceeds. Call For Equally Attractive Rates on Any Other Amount of Desired Coverage. Richard Preuss, CLU, ChFC 219-289-4061 Randy Radii, ClU, ChFC Classof'80, '62 Cl~uof'81  
SUB Presents: • hll a concert lecture Tonlg I that takes a look at women in society through traditional Anglo& Afro -American (! lksongs Tix availab atLafun Info desk and at the door IITUDENT UMON 80ARD  



If you see news happening, call The Observer 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 


ANGERS, FRANCE 
1995 -96 Academic Year 
French Food And Families 11 Feast or Famine11 With Professor Paul McDowell 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 8, 1994 6:30P.M. ROOM liS O'Shaughnessy 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
the University of Notre Dame. 

His visit allowed him not only to observe the work the volun­teers are doing but to let them know that the university is in­terested in what they are doing and cares about their success, he said. 
The students are upbeat 
cording to Malloy. "They sense they are doing something im­portant," said Malloy. 
There is a hope to combine the teaching program with ser­vice in the Mustard Seed Project or similar service pro­grams in the future. 
Increasing the visibility of the together. he said. It was a chance to increase local net­working and to mobilize the community, according to Mal­loy. 
"The infusion of young, ener-· getic people helps mobilize the club as a whole," said Malloy. 
~-­

Election eve promises changes in House, Senate 
"He's able to do a lot for his

Va.Senate 
Speaker 
race bitter to Foley in 
district, and that's his best ar­gument for re-election. That kind of argument is not as pow­
erful as it once was. Incum­bency in itself is a hindrance."


the finish uphill battle 
The same forces were at work across the country, from

By DAVID ESPO By JIM DRINKARD Illinois, where indicted veteran
Associated Press Associated Press 
Democrat Dan Rostenkowski was said to be trailing in pri­

Locked in a race as close and In powerful testimony to the vate polls, to Georgia, wherecombative as any in the nation, strength of the Republican 
incumbent Democrats Don

Virginia Democratic Sen. drive to control the House, Johnson and Buddy Darden
Charles Robb and Republican eastern Washington voters are were suffering from their linksOliver North neared the finish considering trading House to Washington and to Presidentline Monday in one of a handful Speaker Tom Foley, the cham­Clinton in particular. 
of contests likely to determine ber's most powerful member, At the same time Rep. Newtcontrol of the Senate. for a freshman representative. 
Gingrich, R-Ga. -who would

At a noontime rally with Vice Foley and Republican chal­be speaker if the RepublicansPresident AI Gore at his side, lenger George Nethercutt spent capture the House -appearedRobb attacked North and his a frenzied final day electioneer­to be escaping any fallout fromconservative crusade. "We re­ing Monday, at plant gates and his status as an eight-term in­ject his appeal to intolerance ... on radio talk shows, in a race cumbent. Former Democraticwe reject his contempt for the that epitomizes the changed
Senate on Tuesday as they David Carney, political direc­nature of politics this year. Rep.
Constitution and the rule of 
law." aimed for their first majority tor at the National Republican The race has become the key Ben Jones has waged a spirit­since 1986. Democrats control Senatorial Committee, pre­ed assault, but most polls show 
North, the key figure in the test for a national Republican him falling short in a heavily
Iran-Contra arms-for-hostages the current Senate, 56-44. dicted the GOP would win all strategy that invites voters to 
scandal, forecast his own nar­GOP leaders were enthusias­the open seats and hold on to vote against Democrats to send Republican district. tic they would pick up the seven all its incumbents on the ballot. a message of their unhappiness On Monday, Foley began his
row victory. "Turn out and 
seats they needed to take con­He said Republican challengers day greeting workers at the
vote," he said at a midday rally with Washington. 
trol, focusing their attention on had a chance at toppling five or "Tom Foley is not just any shift change at Kaiser Alu­in Roanoke. "That's what's go­nine open races and strong six Democratic incumbents. congressman-he's the sym­minum -a reminder of how he ing to make the difference." 
Whatever the outcome in contests against Democratic in­"Turnout is going to be the bol of Congress," said Ben last year won the aluminum cumbents Jim Sasser in Ten­key in many of our states Sheffner, House editor for the industry an exemption from
Virginia, Republicans appeared 
nesee, Harris Wofford in Penn­whether we win or lose," said President Clinton's proposed
poised for strong gains in the nonpartisan Cook Political Re­
sylvania and Robb. Democrat Don Foley. port. energy tax. 

Clinton blasts Republicans in final campaign swing 
By LAWRENCE KNUTSON take us back to what almost Delaware. Theodore Roosevelt, who cred­about renewing a sense of bi­Associated Press wrecked us in the 1980s? Say On his first stop, Clinton in­ited politicians for trying to partisanship. "I always thought no to them! Say yes to our peo­voked the words of Republican buck the status quo. Of today's my job was to work with any­MINNEAPOLIS ple!" Abraham Lincoln -"With mal­GOP, Clinton said, "These folks body the people elected," he 
In an exhausting election-eve The White House and Demo­ice toward none" and "With say, 'Punish the people who said. finale, President Clinton ac­cratic strategists fear Republi­charity for all" -to accuse have tried, and reward the peo­He denied he plans to cam­cused Republicans today of for­cans could capture control of Republicans of feeding on the ple who sit on the sidelines and paign for reelection in 1996 as saking Lincoln's heritage and the Senate, and possibly even cynicism of American voters. . whine and bellyache and com­Harry S. Truman did in 1948 by appealing to "the lowest com­the House, in Tuesday's elec­"They do not use those plain and point the finger."' running hard against an mon denominator." tions. With that in mind, Clinton words," Clinton said of GOP Clinton then exhorted, "Vote obstructionist "do nothing'! 
Addressing an early-morning planned a rigorous blitz to in­candidates. "They seek to use for the party of Teddy Roosevelt Republican Congress. rally less than 24 hours before fluence the outcome of tight malice and cynicism -our -that's now us!" On the other hand, he said polls open on the midterm elec­Senate races in Minnesota and least charitable impulses, the Revisiting the themes of pre­that if Republicans continue to tions, Clinton asked, "Why Michigan and to help a Demo­lowest common denominator." vious campaign stops, Clinton practice the politics of gridlock, would we want to give the cratic challenger take on an in­He also rekindled the memory claimed anew that Republican "I do believe that the people Congress to people who want to cumbent Republican senator in of another famous Republican, promises to balance the budget, who gum up the works need to 
cut taxes and increase defense be held more accountable." spending will make them "the Clinton's first Monday stop in enemies" of Social Security. In Minneapolis is a return en­response, Republicans point to gagement on behalf of Min­a White House memo dis­nesota Senate candidate Ann cussing Social Security cuts. Wynia. He was speaking in 
Flint, Mich. in behalf of Rep. 

On Sunday, Clinton predicted Bob Carr, who is also seeking Democrats would hold on to the an open Senate seat. House and Senate. "I don't be­And in Delaware he was help­lieve we're going to lose the ing state Atty. Gen. Charles M. Congress if the American peo­Oberly III, 47, who is trying to ple know what has been done," unseat 75-year-old Sen. Clinton said on Sunday night's William Roth, R-Del. Larry King special on CNN. Delaware is about the only 
But win or lose, Clinton said state where Democrats believe he ready to cooperate with Re­they have a chance of ousting a publicans if they are sincere GOP Senate veteran. 

7:30PM WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9TH 
... ·-----~.. -.:. .. -·---.;......:-.. _. ...·._···-.:.. ··.-·.........·. ~-------· ---~-·-.. ·-~ : ..------.... --------_,;_; ------~ 
. . _, 

..... .. ~----------· --... . -----.. -. -.·• -. . . . : . --·~:.' -' -. ·----. --. _­
-IE-R~--~--------_--N--~--·_::__-___:E ..

____E N---~---±J3R 
) c _: ; -: • :• • • ~---J " _;~ c.: ~ : ....·
~ -·
Sili
' I . -. 

TICKETS'AVAI£ABLE--AT:_THE-~LAFORTUN:E~]N-FO ~DESK --ND/SMCiHcts!unENTs-$3~~--~-:~:~-:GENEitt\t·t\riMISSION $5 ·-·~. 
. . ....... -·-... ·-~-----'----.::~...;_._, ______ :-----~·-... ~<!'-·': ~ --------·---·-------------------.---~ --~------------------------­
. • .•. :_-.-:..,_ ·..,.. ........ _: ..... __ L___ ~ -__ _., ·---;·.----· --· ..; --~· --:..: __ ...:--!:--·--.. --·----· ______: ----' ........ :.... ·. _.: :___ ·-....,....[.. ...::. _.:_ -­
..·;-~~<-".·~-~:~:--~;..-;~~~~-~~ ~ .~--: _:~~-.-: ~-~~~,-: ~-~:~ .: ::. -=~. -~----·.':~~:-~·j_:~-~~-~~-~:: ::~-~~:~~-: ~---~--.:.. . . 
sp:OOs6Ifi~JN&06~bofuMJ@t,~~t~~tt~Vli~ANn:SUB. 
Thinkingofdoing ayearofservice? How about doing it 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 

"'' , reported vandalism to a water foun­

Rains wreak havoc on Europe 
t'(taln on the 3rd floor. 

'social space.' Ganzouri, student body presi­BOG has tallied the final re­dent. sults of the survey questioning BOG approved the first Reno­the social atmosphere of Hag­vation Proposal of purchasing 
ExploRE A woRld 
gar and is now working on the magazines students can sign proposal to suggest initial out from Haggar front desk. changes to the Center. The first subscriptions to be 
of ENdlESS possibiliTY... 
The survey showed high per­purchased will include Glam­centages of students who claim our, Time, Sports Illustrated, they never use certain rooms Ebony, and People. Students such as the game room, the can sign out the magazines by mezzanine, and the parlor. simply leaving their I.D.s and BOG members are now con­returning the magazine by mid­cerned with why these rooms night. 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
• 
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 

• 
TWO BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 



'd,
• KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE 
0
• WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

\ ~~0 ~ l McKinsey 
• GAS HEAT 
&Company, Inc. 
• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT • 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 



McKiNsEy & CoMpANY is lookiNG foR ouTSTANdiNG ~OTRE l?AME sENioRs TO 
• ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

WORk AS 2....yEAR busiNESS ANAlysTS iN OUR NoRTH AMERICAN offiCES. 
PlEAsE joiN us foR A pRESENTATioN oN ouR BusiNESS ANAlysT PROGRAM ON THuRsdAy, NovEMbER 10, AT _7:00 p.~., iN THE UNivmsiry Club.. CuRRENT
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 

McKiNSEY busiNESS ANAlysTS Will bE AVAilAblE TO AN~WER YOUR QUESTIONS AT AN iNfORMAl RECEpTioN wHicH will follow THE pRESENTATION.
232-8256 

WE look foRWARd TO MEETiNG you. 
By PIERO V ALSECCHI 
Assocjats;d Press 
ALBA, Italy 

Torrential rains that wal­loped southern Europe all weekend and caused the worst flooding in 80 years let up today as residents sopped the mud from their homes and res­cuers searched for survivors. 
At least 63 people died, mostly in northern Italy's Piedmont region, during the deluge, which washed away bridges and highways and in­undated France and Spain as well across the Mediterranean in Morocco, reports said. 
The water submerged rich agricultural fields and cut off hundreds of villages. Nice's in­ternational airport was struck by floodwaters and forced to close until Tuesday. 
Rain lightened today after 24 inches fell in less than three days over Piedmont, which bor­ders France. The Liguria, Val d'Aosta and Lombardy regions also were hard-hit. 
Schools, hotels and even a train opened their doors to the thousands of people rendered homeless. Many people were plucked from their rooftops by helicopters or rescued by mo­torboat. 
Military authorities put the number of weather-related 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Survey: Haggar in need of improvements 
By EMILY RUFFNER 
News Writ~r 
Results from Board of Gover­nance's (BOG) Haggar Renova­tion Survey show only 20% of its surveys respondents think of Haggar College Center as a 
European flooding 

The worst flooding in memory turned northern Italy into a disaster area Sunday and killed at least 54 people across southern Europe and North Africa. 
Attaotlc Ooelin 
deaths in Italy at 40, the ANSA news agency said, though res­cuers managed to reach 10 spelunkers trapped by flooding in a cave near Vicenza. 
Premier Silvio Berlusconi's government, criticized for a late and inadequate response, promised emergency funds for the Piedmont. An emergency Cabinet meeting was scheduled for Tuesday. 
Italian officials said an army of 20,000 firefighters, police and volunteers was deployed to handle the crisis. 
are not being used. Installing cable, adding food variety and a possible theme to the Snack Bar, and "opening up the rooms" are a few suggestions vocalized by the students to create a more social atmo­sphere, according to Noha El­
employ­racquetball juveniles 

ll."itJllt l'lrll'\rAhAI'11riM by Security. p.m.· A Morrissey Hall resi· was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury, "' 
11 :23 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported. eft ofher stereo from her room. 
'Ihe Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra 
Raymond Leppard, Conductor 

Sunday, November 20, 1994 2:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
.rPeaturing the prPnzirrP (?{ 
Symphony: Winter Lightning 
composed by Jeffrey Jacob commissioned by Saint Mary's College 
Guest Artist: Jeffrey Jacob Pianist-in-Residence Saint Mary's College 
The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra will also perform: 
Brahms' Academic Festival Overture, Op. 80 Brahms' Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, Op. 68 
For information about tickets, please call the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 284-4626. 
12:40 p.m. An off..campus student reported the theft of his bike from the Alumni Hall rack. 
4:32 p.m. A Breen-Phillips resi­dent was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treat­
. ment of a sports injury. 
·./~f{t 
SUN., Nov. 6th 
1:50 a.m. Security transported a Zahm Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Center tor treatment of injuries sustained during a fall. 

2:09 p.m. A Dillon Halt resident re· ported the theft of his bike from the bike rack at Dillon Hall. 
8:05 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident re­ported the theft of her wallet from the Fieldhouse in JACC. Her wallet was left unattended at the tirne of the theft. 
8:10p.m. A Dillon Hall resident re· ported the theft of his bike from the bike rack at Dillon Hall. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 8, 1994 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Bwiness Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Eiizabeth Regan ControUer ...................................•. Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu Genera1lnformation 631-7471 Unix observer®boron.helios.nd.edu 
• DESIDERATA 
Flight 4184, Smith children cause reflection on life, death 
Although I had a topic planned for God. There probably is no "answer". today's article, I have decided to save But I cannot doubt that every individ­it for another time. For in light of the ual who seeks to be a conduit for God's devastating news I, along with mil­love here on earth will make the world lions. received last week, I would feel a slightly better place. irreverent if I did not use my biweekly If we still find ourselves bitter, we allotted space to pay tribute to the should try to console ourselves in the short lives of Michael and Alexander knowledge that little Alexander and Smith. Michael are in a better place now. For 
Just a few nights earlier, we learned if we cease to have faith in God, we of the fatal crash of Flight 4184. will surely cease to believe in an after­Because there 
life. This is were no sur-something I will vivors, and not -indeed, because it cannot-do. occurred so I would like to
Kirsten close to home think that these (or at least precious boys' "home-away­souls live on,
Dunne

from-home", I without the pain, expect it shook fear, and sorrow us all up a bit, that often providing as it accompany did a concrete reminder of the fleeting earthly life. And my faith is such that, nature of earthly existence. not only do I believe this to be true, 
But the report that a mother inten­but I know it with an unexplainable tionally took the lives of her children, conviction. I know that there is some­at least in my case, was even more thing more ahead for these boys ­upsetting. At least the plane crash was and for all of God's children. an accident. The Smith incident, by This article is admittedly short, but I contrast, was evidence of something cannot really think of anything else to much worse -something which is so say. I would only reaffirm what I have disturbing that it cannot adequately be already said. Let us rest content at captured in words. How could some­least in the knowledge that Michael one do this? and Alexander Smith are happy now, 
I imagine that events like this cause and that their souls live. And let our some individuals to question their faith faith, likewise, continue to live and in God. And I cannot disagree that it is grow. perplexing how such things can hap­When my soul departs for Heaven, I pen In His loving omnipresence. I don't pray you won't forgeV That my love for have the slightest idea, any more than you Is eternal. and I am with you yeV anyone else does. But I do believe that Although my form is different from these incidents should call us closer to what it used to be, I I promise I'll look God, not turn us away from Him. after you and hope you'll talk to mel 
Unless we remain committed to His God keeps our souls forever, earthly 
complete goodness and unconditional life Is but a trial-/ So when you visit my 
love, events like this will be more likely grave in remembrance, don't cry for 
to repeat themselves. The answer to me -but smile. 
occurrences like these is not to Kirsten Dunne is a third-year law 
become indifferent or to turn from student 
LISTEN I MARIO, IT~ 
THE ONLY LIFE RAFT 
I COULD FIND, so S10P WUINING AN!J PAPVL.F:. · 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Crimes show ND 'activism' 
Dear Editor: 

As chairman of the ND/SMC Right to Life Concession Stand I was very disappointed that several items were stolen from our concession stand by members of the Notre Dame "Family." While I can not be sure of the motives for taking the missing items ­approximately 25 corsages and 70 pins that replicated the feet of an aborted human being -these items would seem to have little monetary value to anyone except our group. 
Therefore, it seems likely to me that these items were "trashed" by those who op­pose equality for unborn children. Even though I can not be sure of the motives of the individual{s) in this case, I do know that such displays of pro-abortion "activism" are not uncommon at Notre Dame. 
It was only a few weeks ago that another member of the Notre Dame Family saw fit to vandalize the "Cemetery of the Innocents,"-a series of approximately 4500 mark­ers, each representing an unborn human being who is killed by abortion in the U.S. each day. 
I also know Right to Life members who have had pro-life material ripped down from their doors multiple times. This does not include the numerous times I have put up university approved posters for our meetings only to see them gone a few hours later, or the times I have had the bumper stickers peeled off of my car, or the time the "blackboard janitorial" police called security because someone was committing the heinous crime of writing messages about upcoming pro-life events in the corners of blackboards. 
Perhaps those who steal flowers, ride over cemetery markers and vandalize doors could try practicing what they preach and encourage a little tolerance for those who disagree with them on political issues. What the heck, if they tried it they might even fmd that they liked it, in which case us "closed minded anti abortion terrorists" might even be allowed to work in the media, get tenure at major universities, or be nomi­nated to the Supreme Court. 
MICHAEL SHELIGA 
Graduate Student in Computer Science and Engineering 
Fischer Graduate Residences 


• DOONESBURY 
AFTER. MY HUSBAND WA'313R.UTAUY 
K!f.,f£/?, H/5 MUR.­
[}&R.f3( tVA:7 5i3N­
7ENCW 7V /}//5 ... 
5/JR£, 60V Of!U-'3 '31GNW H/5 V&ATH UJAI?.RAN7; l3UTIF 
J&l3 8U'3H HAP£JaN IN01~ H&a/OI.JWHAV/5 tJ<£0JTEP HIM ON 7Ht 5POT, PRIJ8A/31..Y 
(}qfNG HIS 8A~ HAN{)Sl 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
JE/3 f3U5H. H&'S R£AUY, !<EAUY, ReALLY 7VU6H 
ON {.R.!M/3 / 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''solong as you are secure you will count many friends; if your life becomes clouded you will be alone." 
-Ovid 

r------------------------------------­
page 8 Tuesday, November 8, 1994
VIEWPOINT 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND's goal: Education comes first 
Dear Editor: 
I am responding to Brian Fitzpatrick's column written on Oct. 21, supporting the administration's denial of recogni­tion of the gay and lesbian coalition on campus. 
Fitzpatrick constructs his argument based on the right of a private institu­tion to create its own policies. He argues that Notre Dame has no obliga­tion to support "a lifestyle that Catholicism considers immoral." At an educational institution, such as this one, the student organizations need not mir­ror the administration's opinions, but 
'At an educational institution, 
such as this one, the stu­dent organizations need not mir­ror the administration's opinions, but rather should provide outlets for a diverse student body.' 
rather should provide outlets for a diverse student body. Currently, groups such as the Feminist Forum, or the Democratic Socialists of America, or the Baptist Student Union may not embody the political positions that the Catholic dents recognized their homosexuality at organization, and not from outside insti­Church maintains, yet these groups are the time they signed their acceptance gators. If students at a Catholic institu­
granted college money. Notre Dame 
letter. I would suspect there is a great tion pressure their administrators to re­
does recognize the importance of 
need for an official gay and lesbian sup­align their views on homosexuality, they 
presenting different viewpoints, yet this rationalization has not applied to the port group here, considering the poten­can play a role initiating change on a 
tially hostile attitude towards homosex­larger scale. Obviously, change comesgays and lesbians on campus. 
uality. How can one sort through diffi­slower than a snail, but why should we
Fitzpatrick also poses the argument that homosexuals should know of the cult personal issues when they cannot all merely acquiesce? 
find the support they need among
atmosphere that they are immersing 
peers? SHEILA BRENNANthemselves in, before matriculating at Notre Dame. This point might be valid I believe that attitude and policy 
Graduate Student in American Studies changes can only come from within any O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences 
assuming that all gay and lesbian stu­

• LIFE AFTER fiNALS 
Election '94: Vote for substance, not slick consultant packaging 
Fox deserves more than an O.J. spectacle 
Dear Editor: 
The death of Mara Fox is a tragedy and a huge loss to the Notre Dame com­munity. I sympathize with family and friends as they endure John Rita's trial and imagine that the Notre Dame com­munity feels the same. 
However, I disagree with providing students with information on where we can find out the time and room assign­
' 1s it really necessary or in 
good Catholic character to invite random students to observe the trial and anxiously await the conviction of John Rita?' 
ment of the trial. Anyone who honestly belongs at that trial already knows when and where it will be held. Due to the serious consequence of Hita's alleged actions and its impact on the student body, extending an invitation to observe the trial suggests that they attend in order to support the conviction of John Hita. 
Is it really necessary or in good Catholic character to invite random stu­dents to observe the trial and anxiously await the conviction of John Hita? I think not. 
CAROLYN CHAPUT 
Senior Farley Hall 


With all due respect to the fine theology and phi­losophy professors who read this newspaper, I can name three things which prove, beyond a shadow of a doubt, the existence of a just and benevolent God. 
• 
The miracle of watching a birth. 

• 
My pair of tickets to the Notre Dame-Florida State game this Saturday. and 

• 
The election season finally (and quite merci­


fully) ends today.  
Notre Dame is one of the  
few campuses in this coun­try that draws a lot of stu­dents from all regions of the country, so you can talk about political races in every corner of this greatnation, from the North vs.  Pau1 Pearson  
Robb  no-holds-barred  
wrestling match in Virginia  
to the Prop 187 debate in  
California,  where  Gov.  

Wilson is starting to sound a little too much like Bob Geldofs dictator character in "The Wall." 
Because of the modern wonder of absentee bal­lots, today many members Of the Notre Dame fam­ily will cast ballots in many different races. Some will have looked long and hard at the available choices and will make a decision after carefully weighing all the factors involved. 
Unfortunately, many others will vote based on the slick, unsubstantial commercials and cam­paign fliers of the candidates. 
I should know. God help me, but I helped put out some of those fliers. 
In order to make some extra money, the small newspaper at which I work also does freelance political consulting. We will help a candidate print fliers, brochures and posters for various local and state races, from school board to governor. 
The philosophy my boss uses with these cam­paign pieces is very simple: The customer (in this case, the candidate) is always right. 
Even when he or she is dead wrong. For example, for one of our clients in an October 
runoff for a County Court Judge seat, we put out a brochure detailing how much experience the two candidates had. Nothing so shocking about that. Our client had 20 years of legal experience on his side, while his opponent, who had been appointed to the position by the governor less than a year before, had barely five. 
There was nothing wrong with it, until my boss decided to include the photos of the two candi­dates. Our client is a 

Hispanic man. His oppo­nent is a black woman. 
There is absolutely no secret that race still plays a big role in politics in the South. Many people would still rather vote for Satan than a black. It's repugnant, but it's true. When I asked my boss why we were inserting the photos, he told 
me that many of the people in that voting district "will vote for a Hispanic before they vote for a black." 
Despite my repeated attempts to change my boss' mind, the photos ran. 
Fortunately, they didn't work. In fact, they may have backfired. In a race in which our client had been favored to win, his opponent beat him by a two percent margin and kept her seat on the bench. 
Right now, all I can do is pray that members of the Notre Dame family will show the politicians and their misguided consultants that Americans still vote for people, not for campaign slogans, that playing to our crudest fears and prejudices simply will not work and are not worth the effort. 
That's all for now. I have to get to the polls. 
So do you. 

Paul Pearson '93 is a former Observer news writer who currently works for a trilingual news­paper in Tampa. Florida. He can be reached through e-mail at "paulp74115@aol.com." 
ACCENT 
Tuesday, November 8, 1994 
page9 

Women's issues played out in music 
By PATII CARSON 
Accent Writer 
She has performed in over 20 states and six foreign countries including the UK, Holland,. Denmark, France, Japan, and Mexico. She has become quite popular on the college circuit, performing on over 40 cam­puses annually. She has been nominated for Best Female Entertainer by Campus Activities Today. She is the multi-talented singer and song writer Robin Greenstein and the Student Union Board (SUB) brings her to campus tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
In her concert-lecture entitled "Images of Women in Folk Music," Greenstein examines society's attitudes toward women as well as women's feelings about their own lives as expressed in Anglo-American and Afro-American folk song. 
After briefly discussing the oral folk process, Greenstein examines the basic issues of love and fidelity, loyalty and de­sertion, subservience and inde­pendence. She examines these critical issues in a wide variety of traditional music played and sung on banjo and guitar. 
"Her emotionally charged lyrics offer sharp observations about the ways in which com­munication between people of­ten breaks down. Her descrip­tions of people in conflict are 
Greenstein addresses 'Images of Women' through folk music 
told with poignancy and a sense of humor. Some songs are sad, other introspective, several jealous, but they have one thing in common; a way of reaching out to people and touching them deeply," reports Variety Magazine. 
Greensboro College in North Carolina reported, "Robin elicit­ed the most audience par­ticipation we have had with a coffee house performer this year. Her original material is excellent." 
She has an extensive music history. Greenstein has prac­ticed classical and acoustic gui­tar since she was eleven years old, because she feels that the guitar is the most versatile in­strument. She has been playing the banjo since age 18. 
Greenstein earned her bache­lor's degree in music from State University of New York, Stony Brook, and studied for a year at Trinity College of Music and King's College in London. She got her start in New York City when she signed a song writ­ing/publishing deal with Bob Dylan's company, and has been performing professionally for about 15 years. 
Greenstein also held odd jobs to make extra money, such as catering for the movie set of Big with actor Tom Hanks. 
Her debut album, Slow Burn, was released in Europe on com­pace disc last year. It features backup by some of New York's most popular studio musicians. The Penn reports that Greenstein said, "I think every musician is only bound by their own imagination." 


Greenstein's concert-lecture cuts across many academic lines, including women's stud­ies, sociology, psychology, mu­sicology, and more, according to SUB Cultural Arts Commissioner Holly Campbell. 
"It is a concert that will 
Pholo CXIUitllsy of Studenl Union Board delight and inspire, and we hope to see you and your stu­dents there," Campbell added. 
Greenstein's performance is at 8 p.m. and not 7:30 p.m. as printed on some campus flyers . 

• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Clues about combatting the common cold 
By RYAN GRABOW 
chicken soup is actually en­
N.R.E.M.T. dorsed by the FDA as being "as good as anything else in reliev­
We all have little bits of ing the symptoms of a cold". medical advice that we believe No study has shown chicken in. They have been quoted to soup can actually cure a cold, us by our parents or our room­but it does seem to help relieve mates and friends. We hold stuffed nasal passages and them tinthe highest regard, soothe a sore throat. never questioning their truth. Interestingly enough, some Some of them are true, but studies have shown that many are not. With cold sea­breathing in the vapor of son just beginning, here are steamy chicken soup works some "old wives tales" that better than plain steamy water may be of interest to us all! in relieving congestion. The 
reason for chicken soup's suc­

•Cold weather or cold drafts cess still remains a mystery. cause colds Whatever the reasons for its ef­
This is probably the most fectiveness, mom knew what commonly believed piece of she was doing. medical folklore that is actually Hopefully some of these "old false. The only link between wives tales" will help those of cold weather and colds is that you suffering from a cold to continued exposure to cold, dry breathe a little easier tonight, air can dry out a person's mu­while you eat some chicken cous membranes thus making soup and enjoy a nice glass of them more susceptible to orange juice. catching a cold; however, the virus must be present for this Columnist's Note: Medical to occur. Going from a warm Minute is intended to address environment to a cold environ­common health topics pertinent 
membranes. Since the chemi­It is highly unlikely to spread ever that Vitamin C will help
ment may cause a condition to the lives of Notre Dame and
cals contained in tobacco a cold through kissing. Some prevent colds. Some studies,
called vasomotor rhinitis. in Saint Mary's students. Its pur­
smoke alter the consistency of viruses such as herpes, the however, have shown that
which the blood vessels in the pose is to present useful med­
the mucous, it is easier for cold mumps, and mono can be Vitamin C does lessen the 
nose swell causing a runny ical information in an enter­
viruses to penetrate this barri­transmitted orally; however, severity of symptoms and the 
nose; however, once inside a taining, informative, and non­
er and infect the person. In the virus that causes the com­length of time one suffers from 
warm environment again, the judgmental format. Ifyou have 
addition, the toxins in tobacco mon cold does not live well in a cold. (Be careful -too much
condition quickly disappears. a medical question you would
smoke slow the beating of the the mouth where the tempera­Vitamin C can cause stomach
•Smokers are more likely like answered, please e-mail
cilia (tiny hairs) that beat back ture is lower than in the nasal and intestinal irritation result­
than non-smokers to catch a your request to
and forth to keep debris and passages. The primary entry ing in symptoms just as un­
cold (Ryan.J. Grabow.f@nd. edu) or
microbes out of the nose. If the sites of cold viruses are the ple~~ant as t~?se due to a cold,
Unfortunately for those who send your questions via cam­
cilia are affected, it is more dif­nose and eyes. I.e. the runs. )
smoke here is one more reason pus mail to (Ryan Grabow 209
ficult for them to remove virus •Taking Vitamin C every day •Chicken soup cures a cold 
to quit. Cold viruses enter the Keenan Hall). Good Luck and
holding debris. prevents colds It will probably come as a
body through the nasal mucous Stay Healthy! 
•Kissing spreads colds There is no evidence whatso-surprise to many of you, but 
·----------~-~---· -----­

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 8, 1994 
Alger and crew held Fisher to 
just 33 yards passing, and 10
Studs 
continued from page 13 
and roll over a new opponent. This week, Fisher was the unfortunate pedestrian who was forced to eat railroad ties. 
Standford's 10-0 win came on the backs of their Lethal Weapon 3 Backfield of Chris Pollina, John Mele, and Doug Pollina who rolled up a collec­tive 155 yards on the ground. 
The Studs held a tight 3-0 lead into the third quarter. Then, on third and five, Chris Pollina busted loose and ram­bled 4 7 yards for a touchdown. Pollina credits the offensive line with Stanford's success on the ground. 
"You have to give credit to the offensive line. When you include our two tight ends, this is the best offensive line I've ever played with. That makes the backs' jobs a lot easier." 
Fisher came into the game with a well respected passing attack, but they were neutral­ized by the one of the Studs' biggest studs, safety Charlie Alger who picked off two Brian Hertz passes. 
"He is the ideal safety for our defensive scheme. He's not going to let anyone get behind him." 
yards rushing. 

"Defensively, I thought we played really well. They didn't have any success moving the ball against us." 
Fisher's only real threat came at the end of the first half. 
After intercepting Stanford's Mike Brown, they were inside the ten and driving. However, Hertz was tackled at the one­yard line and time ran out. 
"We failed to convert on a lot of opportunities," Fisher Captain Chris Cary said. "Stanford had a lot of penalties and turnovers. We just failed to convert and take advantage of the opportunity they gave us." 
But Cary is still proud of Fisher's season. 
"We can be happy with the way we improved. We came together as a team. Our offense picked up. We had a lot of fun, and we won some ball­games." 
Stanford moves on to the semifinals-finals, and a show­down with Off-Campus Crime. 
"I thought we played well this Sunday," Pollina said. "We have to play great next Sunday to win. Off-Campus is the most talented team in the league. We're going to have to put a great game together to win." 
Have so:mething to say? Use Observer classifieds 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

Spartans want bowl bid 
By JEFF HOLYFIELD 
Associated Press 

EAST LANSING, Mich. 
The moon and several plan­ets will have to be in a perfect alignment, yet Coach George Perles hinted Monday that his 4-5 Michigan State team could still land a bowl bid. 
"I have a feeling. It would be inappropriate to talk about right now. Lots of feeling," Perles said at his weekly media luncheon. 
Perles emphasized that he and the school have "a tremen­dous relationship with all the bowls. All we have to do is do our part." 
The record book backs up Perles. He's guided the Spartans to seven bowls, and three of those bowl trips were made by teams with six victo­ries. That includes last year's 6-5 team, which fell 18-7 to Louisville in the Liberty Bowl. 
The Spartans downed Northwestern last weekend, 35-17, to even their Big Ten record at 3-3. This Saturday, they play host to Purdue (4-3-2 overall and 2-2-2 in the Big Ten). Then after a week off, Michigan State visits Penn State to take on the No. 2 Nittany Lions on Nov. 26. 
Last year, Michigan State held a 31-17 lead on Penn State with 2:54 left in the third quarter, but ended up losing 38-37. Perles said that might help motivate his team in two weeks, but refused to look past Purdue. 
"We're a week early to be 
talking about that," he said. ''I've got tunnel vision in get­ting ready for game after game. I've trained myself that way." 
If the Spartans end up with six victories and go to a bowl, that would put a new spin on the controversy surrounding Perles and his future at Michigan State. Last winter. university President M. Peter McPherson said Perles had to have an "outstanding season" this year after two losing sea­sons, followed by last year's 6­6 mark. 
Then last month, the chair­man of the school's trustees, Joel Ferguson, said a 6-5 record -even with a victory over Penn State -wouldn't qualify as outstanding. He pre­dicted the Perles era was over at Michigan State. 
For his part, Perles, who played at Michigan State, will only say that he's got a con­tract with the school that he expects to honor and expects to have honored. It could cost Michigan State some $1.3 mil­lion to buy out the last three years of the 1 0-year contract. 
On Monday, Perles didn't sound like he was close to los­ing his job. He deftly deflected a reporter's question about whether the Purdue game meant more to him because it might be his last at Spartan Stadium. 
"No. They all count one," he said, repeating his mantra. Then he added with a smile: "I know what you're talking about." 
• NBA BASKETBALL 

Kukoc rallies Bulls over Philadelphia 
By MIKE NADEL Associated Press 

CHICAGO Toni Kukoc 19, Philadelphia 76ers 14. 
"That was a fun fourth quarter," said Kukoc, who led the way as Chicago's bench carried the Bulls past Philadelphia 98-83 Monday night. "It's not going to be like that every time in the fourth quarter, but I'm happy it ended like this tonight." 
Kukoc finished with 28 points -reaching a career high for the second straight game. He had 25 Saturday against Washington after scor­ing only two in the opener. 
"He just gave me a little more time on the court the last two games," Kukoc said, referring to Bulls coach Phil Jackson. 
Kukoc, a second-year pro from Croatia who parlayed his big European reputation into big NBA bucks, balked at being a backup during training camp. He'd still rather start, though he sees that he can be effective as a sub. 
"If I'm sure that I'm going to play I don't care," he said. "But if you come off the bench, play five minutes and go back to the bench, you start to think, 'When am I going to go in again?' It's tough for any player." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

SCI-FI & FANTASY SATURDAY November 12th IQ-6 233-2342 all sci-fi pbk books 50-75% olff Pandora's Books 808 Howard St 
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS 10-6m-sat pandora's books NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 233-2342 cool stuff cool store 
USED BOOKS & CUFF'S NOTES Pandora's Books 233-2342 NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/10-6 Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store 
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from around the world. GLOBAL GIFTS at Lafortune Student Center, Nov. tO& 11, Room 108, 9am-6pm. 

ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND: One black Casio watch near Stonehenge on Sat. 11/5 
Call Jen @2446 
LOST: A silver wrist bracelet 
somewhere on campus on Sat. 
11/5 Call Jessica 4-2703 
LOST: set of keys on BUD LIGHT key chain possibly at KNOTT SYR CALL MIKE X3054 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico. the Caribbean. etc.) Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ment available. No experience nec­essary. For more Information callt­206-634-0468 ext. C55841 

TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK '951 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1 ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURSI­800-426-7710 
macy's 
invites you to 
discover career 
opportunities at 
Aeropostale Aeropostale, Macy's highly suc­cessful specialty store, is seeking: 
*P!T SALES ASSOCIATES for our store opening soon in UNI­VERSITY PARK MALL Open interviews on Tues. Nov. 8 & Wed. Nov. 9 10am-7pm Sat. Nov. 12 IOam-5-pm at the Center Court Info Oesk.Wilh an exclusive collection of men's and women's sportswear inspired by the early days of French aviation, Aeropostale is already a proven success. experiencing rapid sales growth across the U.S. Aeropostale offers the training, compensation and benefits you'd expect from an industry leader. For more information, or if unable to attend. please call (317)841-2800. AEROPOSTALE We are an EOE M/F. 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808 
Wantedllllndividuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING 
BREAK '95. Earn substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL 
INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­800-327-6013 
LOCAL CONSULTING FIRM SEEKS SALES/MKTG. ASST. FOR 94/95 SCHOOL YEAR. 
FLEX. HRS. 
HOURLY WAGE & COMM. GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO GAIN VALUABLE SALES EXP. (219) 256-9546. 
ATTENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF­MOTIVA TEO Students. The ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is currently interviewing students for Summer '95 management posi­tions. Earn money in excess of $10,000. Call now, 1-800-477-1001 for a campus representative. 
FOR RENT 

THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN. NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­773-2034 
WANTED: LAW/MBA/GRAD STUDENT TO SHARE FURNISHED APT FOR SPRING SEMESTER. CALL 273-6418 FOR MORE INFO. 
FOR RENT: NEXT TO CAMPUS­Furnished Studio Apt. $435/mo. + some ulil. Available nowlll -Call Dione at273-6381/lv. message 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Early Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12 meals $2791 Panama City Oceanview Kitchens $1291 Cancun & Jamaica $3991 Daytona $1591 Keys $2291 CocoaBeach $15911­800-678-6386 
EA HOCKEY for IBM 1994 players with trades. etc ... almost brand new, has all books and the registration form. best offer; call Tom at 4-1712 
'93 Camero Z28. 6-speed, pw, pdl, abs, Clarion CO player, alarm. IOk miles never seen winter. $18,000. Call 4-1970 
For Sale: American West Airlines Ticket Vouchers-GREAT DEAL!! Call Xt295 
MacCiassic, 4 mb RAM, with hard drives, software; great condition; $400; 289-7017. 
Exercise bike, dual action; $1 00; 289-7017 
486 OX2-66, VESA, Pentium Upg, 420m, 4m RAM, SVGA, Fax/Mod 14.4Kb, Sflwr, under guarantee 1550$ or b/o., ldriss 631 5631 
TICKETS 
Florida State Game tickets for sale. Best offer. Call x4478 
Plane ticket to Orlando for sale. Call Christy x2771 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR All HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 
It's my dad's 50th Birthday and I want to make his day. You can help me!l Sell me FOUR AIR FORCE GAS Please????II Thanks. Michelle 284-5512 
I NEED 3 AF GAs! Sam X4872 
PLEASE! I need 2 student tix or GA's to Air Force. Call Kristy at x2562 
FLORIDA STATE TICKETS FOR SALE 277-1659 
I NEED AF GA's DAVE 634-1198 

HELPII Need 2 GA's or stud tix for Air Force call AMY 277-4612 
Need two Air Force GAs Leslie 273­9303 
I need 7 Air Force tickets or as many as you have. Call Dave at x1891. 
4SALE: 2 USC GA'S !I x3373 
I have 2 FSU GA's for sale. Call Anne at312-907-8075 with your offer. leave a message with your phone # if not home. 
Need: Air Force GAs (2 or 4 together) call Marc at X3309 or X3300 
NEED 2 air force GAs & 2 studs call shannon x4236 
-HELP­$$$ I NEED$$$ AIR FORCE GA'S CALL GARY 277-9279 
NEEDED: 4 AIRFORCE GA'S Please call Jenny at xt295111 
2 FSU GA's. Jeff -1-3906 
Need Tickets!!! 4 Air Force GA's Call Sean at 4-0602 
2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235-3394 
1 FSU TIX for sale, Call Christina 
@284-5543 
FOR SALE: 2 FSU GA's 255-7961 after 6p 
FOR SALE-2 AF GA's, 2 AF sl 2 USC GA's-X2818 
AF, SO.CAL & FSU GA'S FOR SALE 288-1186. 
4 FSU tix for sale catherine x4308 
I NEED 1 AF STUD. TIX. MIKE 289-3203 
One way plane ticket from Orlando to South Bend 11113/94 on Delta Call x1699 Mike Best Offer 
PERSONAL 

Seamaisin at the Midway Tavern, 2 blocks So. of Hacienda on 4th Street... ... Every Thursday 
Notre Dame's Traditional Irish Band ... Seamaisin .... 1st CD at the Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas 
Dear Betsy, 
For all of Room's Normates and all your Tame Chinges, we just have one thing to say: 
SAPPY HIRTHDAY!II From the 222 Crew & the Girts 
FOOTBALL NO. 58 = KINETIC ENERGY. If intrigued, respond in classifieds. (Address to KIWI) 
Say Snootles and the Rebo Band 
Michelle Nolan you rock my world 
KD you kick a-

To Staph, Nicole, and Patti Congrats on a great season-You guys are all players of the year of my heart! Love your favorite neighbor from Dixon 
Get Stonedlll! Get Stoned II II Get Stonedllll Get Stoned! II! Get Stoned I Ill Get Stoned! Ill 

Come See Oliver Stone on Wed. November 9 at 7:30 In Stepan Center. Tix on Sale at LaFortune, $3 
yes. we are in the United States 

Pop quiz: He is, aahh. a god, aahh I 
***'* BP BITS from 1114 ***** 

########################## 
-DeBart has been christened (at least the bathroom has) -fire drills are NOT necessary I -Um, can I have my butt back? -band aids rule -are you feeling okay? ..... no, i'll be right back. -G -I love SYR'sl -how's the view from the floor, LC? -OJ. nice detour from Arby's -J board's gonna get me -I'll be expelled! -post-SYR trip to Campus View -I didn't know sleeping standing up was so comfortable -they call me Moaner because ... -excuse me? ... what's my last name? -suz. we switched roles. thanks :) -that was quick, bic -is Loveshack a good slow song? -not bad girls, 12 out of 14 :• 
-will you shape upi. ..I'M ORUNK!I -I think I pulled a jaw muscle 

############################ 
Thanx my friends, JM, SB. SK, EL, MS. AS, LC, KP, TR, JA, JS, EP, LC, & dates II It was FUN and a progressive successll let's do it again:) 
-BB 

who despite playing well could effective all day. 
• WOMEN'S hrfERMAU. 
not stop the potent attack of Off Quarterback Kelly Guerin Campus. The key to that turned in a stellar perfor­
WolDen's 
Defense propels Lyons 
continued from page 16 offense was balance. mance, as she passed for two touchdowns and ran the third On their opening drive, o·c in on a bootleg. This success 
and Pangborn forward 
Off Campus 18, Walsh 6 
marched sixty yards en route to came even after two weeks 
Outlined against the white mesh of the Loftus nets, Off Campus rolled again. 
On Sunday, the victim of their offensive onslaught was Walsh, 
their first of three touchdowns, without a full practice. di:>secting Walsh's defense with a run one play and a pass the "We had a practice this week, next. With the Walsh defense but only a few people could guessing run or pass, Off show up so we ended up play­Campus continued their bal­ing a pick up game," Guerin anced attack which proved said. 


Student Exchanges 
at 


ByKC.GOYER 
Sports Writer 
Defense wins games, and for Lyons Hall, it meant a decisive 
. win, 13-0, in the team's first playoff game against Pasquerilla East. Maureen Hill had two inter­ceptions and Christy Blakey fought through the line for sev­eral quarterback sacks. PE captain Sue O'Caine admitted that her team's greatest weak­ness in the game was an inabil­ity to perform against Lyons' formidable defense. 
"We were really confused, and didn't really know what to do to score," O'Cain said. 
Lyon's offense did figure out what to do to score. Jenny Layden ran in the first touch­down early in the first half. A short pass to Cathy Tschanz brought the score to 7-0. 
Later, the biggest offensive play of the game would also be attributed to Layden. Lyons found itself at first and forty because of penalties, and a long, long pass found Layden wide open down field. 
Quarterback Julie Byrd had good protection from the offen­sive line. She was able to hit Amanda Gast for the second and final touchdown. The extra point attempt was unsuc­cessful. 
Byrd was very optimistic about her team's chances to bring home the championship. 
"We're going to work on our execution and clean up a little on offense at practice this week," Byrd said. 
With continued strong defense and increased offen­sive efforts, the Lyons squad will undoubtedly go far in the playoffs this year. 
Pangborn 6, Lewis 0 
Again, it was the battle of the defenses Sunday night as Pangborn defeated Lewis in overtime. Both teams consis­tently prevented first down conversions and pulled through on the big plays when needed. 
In the fourth quarter, junior running back Patrice Vassallo had Lewis fans hoping for a victory, but the Chickens were unable to score before time ran out. 
The excitement continued during overtime. On Lewis' first play at first and goal, Bridget Noonan executed the biggest defensive play of the game with an interception just short of the endzone. 
According to interhall rules, Pangborn was then awarded the ball on Lewis' ten yard line with another first and goal. On the second play, quarterback 
M.T. Kraft ran a bootleg right only to fmd herself in a corner­back blitz. She tossed the ball to Jessica Maier who bobbled it then clutched it tightly as she fell back into the endzone to win the game. 

II 

SOPHOMORES!!! Get Involved: 
Sign up to be a member of the Sophomore Committee for this year's JPW!!! Sign up at LaFortune Info desk or call Regis at x2695. 
Deadline Fri., Nov. 11 
...J =================:::!!
L------------------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 8, 1994 
• NFL fOOTBALL •NBA 
Giants go down hard Rebounder Willis traded to Heat 
in Cowboys' massacre 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
AP Sports Writer 
NEW YORK 
All-Star forward Kevin Willis was traded Monday from the Atlanta Hawks to the Miami Heat for Steve Smith and Grant Long, The Associated Press has learned. 
Willis confirmed the trade when he was reached at the Salt Lake City airport, and a source close to both teams con­firmed the players involved. 
"Something in the back of my mind told me something was brewing. This afternoon it came through," Willis said. "It's a weird feeling. I said I could play ball anywhere. I have no hard feelings. We got an exciting team (in Miami)." 

Hawks spokesman Arthur Triche said the deal was made, pending league approval. 
The Hawks were playing the Jazz at the Delta Center. The Miami Heat was en route to Oakland for Tuesday's game against the Golden State Warriors and a team spokesman could not immedi­ately be reached. 
Willis, 32, has developed into 
one of the best power forwards 
in the NBA. He averaged 19.1 
points and 10.8 rebounds last 
season, helping the Hawks to a 
57-25 record and the regular­
season Eastern Conference ti­
tle. 

Smith, 25, was a member of 
the U.S. world championship team -also known as "Dream Team II" -last summer. He ·was the starting point guard for the Heat last season and aver­aged 17.3 points, 5.1 assists 
and 4.5 rebounds. 

By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 

The Dallas Cowboys didn't get caught looking ahead to San Francisco. In fact, the New York Giants caught them in a fighting mood. 
Emmitt Smith rushed for 163 yards and scored twice and Troy Aikman threw a touch­down pass and ran for another Monday night as the Cowboys won 38-10. 
The two-time Super Bowl champions improved to 8-1, 
13 plays for a second touch­down in the second quarter, highlighted by passes of 22 and 13 yards to fullback Daryl Johnston. The second comple­tion put Dallas on the New York 6 and Smith scored from the 1. Smith joined Jim Brown as only the second player in NFL history to score 10 touch­downs a season in his first five years. 
Dallas turned the game into a rout in the third period with Smith scoring on a 1-yard run after a 36-yard Aikman-to­Irvin pass. Smith rushed a 

best in the NFL, with their 12th 
franchise-high 35 times. straight victory over an NFC 
Later, Smith ran 28 yards,East opponent. 
Aikman completed a 22-yardThe victory may have been a 

pass to Kevin William and costly one for the Cowboys. 
Aikman scrambled 3 yards for Wide receiver Alvin Harper 
a touchdown, his first since sprained his left knee just 
1992. before the teams scuffled head­
Johnston hulled 9 yards for a ing to the locker rooms for 

touchdown after Dixon halftime, and owner Jerry 
On lJisplaiJ
Edwards recovered Dave Jones said the injury "didn't 
Brown's fumble. Brown com­look good." 
pleted only 4-of-17 passes for 

in Ihe lJDDleiJ RDDm, 7sf 1lDDr £a1Drlune
"It could be a tear and we're 

56 yards before he was re­worried about him being out 
placed by Kent Graham, whose for the year," Jones said in the 
/rDm nDuemher 1-7 7
first pass was intercepted. 

press box during the game. 
The Giants got their only"The way the doctors were 
touchdown late in the fourth 

Sptms11red 61J Alumni Au11cialitm, Ihe Snile mu~tum,
talking, I didn't like the way it 
quarter on a 9-yard pass from sounded." 
Graham to Howard Cross. 

and lhe Sludenl Acli11ili11 01/ice.
Dallas plays at San Francisco 

Aikman completed 19-of-24 (7-2) next Sunday in an impor­
passes for 241 yards before tant game for playoff home­
Rodney Peete took over in the field advantage. But the 
fourth period. Cowboys apparently weren't 
Smith, seeking a fourth con­thinking about San Francisco 
secutive rushing title, has 911 as they handed the Giants (3-6) 
yards, 171 behind Detroit's their sixth consecutive loss. 
Barry Sanders. It was the first time the Giants had lost six straight 
The first half ended on a 


WEDNESDAY, NoVEMBEit 9, 1994 
games since 1980 under Ray 
bizarre play when Harper and Perkins. Dallas, which has won 

6:15 TO 7:15 P.M.
Giants defensive back Tito 

five consecutive times against Wooten went down in a tangle 
-0'5HAUGHNE55Y
New York, hadn't beaten the 
in the end zone on a long Hail Giants this badly since a 52-7 
Mary pass. Harper injured his romp in 1966. 
left knee on the play, missed Aikman and Smith took the 

the second half and will un­Cowboys 95 yards in 10 plays 
dergo an MRI on Tuesday.for a 7-0 lead early in the first 
After the play, Irvin and 

Wondering about concentrations, area studies and
quarter. Smith ground out 58 
Jarvis Williams of the Giants yards on the drive, and Aikman 
second major special programs? 
exchanged swings as more 

finished it with a 17 -yard pass 
players gathered around. No 

? Come find out what they are in a brief general ses­
to Michael Irvin and a 22-yard 
damange was done as both touchdown strike to Harper, 
sion-then talk with directors of programs that interest
teams pushed and shoved their 

•who beat rookie Thomas 
way to their separate dressing 

you the most! 
Handolph. 
rooms, scattering cheerleaders Dallas traveled 80 yards in 
and halftime performers. 

FAIR 15 PROCEEDED BY AN OPTIONAL 5E5510N WITH DIAN MURRAY 
l\'otre J),11nc Colllllllmication and Theatre presc11ts tile Creek tm,r[edy 

on 
"Hov To CHoosE A MAJOR."
At Washington Hall 

Wednesday, 
5:00 TO 5:45 P.M. 
November 1(> Hp.m. 

Thursday, 
114 0'5HAUGHNE55Y
$
November 17 H p.m. hiday, November 1 H H p.m. 

PArtTICIPATING PltOGitAMS INCLUDE:
Saturday, November Jt) Hp.m. Sunday, 

concentrations November 20 2:30 p.m. 


second major special programs Film and Cultural Studies African and African-American Studies Gender Studies 
Reserved Seats $7 CAPP (Computer Applications) Hesburgh Program in Public Service Student md senior citizen 
Education Peace Studies 
discounts arc available Wednesday, Thursday 
Arts & Letters Preprofessional ALPP Philosophy /Literature and Sunday. 
PPE: Philosophy, Politics, and Economics 

Ticket~ are available at the 
area studies
door or in advance at the --THE 

African And African-American Studies 
Laf'ortune Student Center Ticket Ot1ice. 
European Studies 
BACCHAE 

Latin American Studies 
MasterCard and Visa 
orders call 631-H 12H. E>Y EURIPIDES 

Mediterranean/Middle East Studies 
Dire({ed hy Guest Director Bonnie i\1on tc 





• MEN'S INTERHAU. 
Zahm kicker steps up to challenge 
By NEIL ZENDER 
Sports Writer 
The fans' support doesn't always make the game easier. Trailing 6-0, Zahm had driven 65 yards in 12 plays. Quarterback Benji Hammond scrambled four yards for a touchdown to tie Keenan with two minutes remaining in the fourth quarter. 
But all was almost for naught. The Zahm fans almost snatched defeat from the jaws of victory. After Hammond's score, a wild throng of overzealous Zahm fans stormed the field as if they'd heard the words "Free Beer! 
The result was a 15-yard penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct. Zahm now needed Mike Wigton to boot an 18-yard extra point to win. 
But Wigton converted the kick without flinching, and the rabid Zahm fans once again celebrated -this time on the sidelines -as Zahm led 7-6. 
"I never had any doubt that Mike would convert," Zahm captain Dave Bozanich said. "He kicks 40-45 yards in prac­tice consistently. I never for a second thought he could miss 
it... 
Until the third quarter, the game was a scoreless battle. Then, with a second and ten at the Keenan 13, the Knights' Ben Mitchell blasted outside and rambled 76 yards to the Zahm 11. 
Keenan almost stalled there. 
But, on fourth and four, Matt 
..
Women's Pairings Men's Pairings 
1. Siegfried.6 1. Carroll 6 
8. B.P. 
8. Planner 7 

1 Siegfried 4:00p.m. 1:00 p.m. 8 PlannerCartier field 
' 

4 Zahm

,4 Off-Campus 
4. Zahm 7 5. Walsh 6 4. 0-C 18 
5. Keenan 6 
SundaySunday Stepan FieldCartier F1eld 

,! ~ 
November 20 November 20 ~ 3. 0-C 20
3. Lyons 13 

Championsh~ Game Championshi~ Game 
6. P.E. 0 
6. Alumni 0

Notre Dame tadium Notre Dame tadium 
3 Off-Campus3 Lyons
Cartier field Pangborn 3:00p.m. 2:00p.m. 2 Stanford

,.2 
'1
2. Pangborn l 
7. Lewis 
Bessette connected with Colin Rittgers for an eleven yard touchdown. However, Josh Tullis' missed extra point would come back to haunt the Knights. 
Rittgers' touchdown was the first time this year that anyone had scored against Zahm's sti­fling defense. Keenan Captain Rob Rolf is proud of Keenan's season. 
''I'm pleased. Yesterday we finally opened up our offense. We had key mistakes, but in terms of improvement we looked a heck of a lot better than we did early in the year." 
Zahm's ability to score in the clutch has been something they've been waiting for. 
"The offense finally came through. We fmally put togeth­er a complete drive. In the past we'd have a few plays here and there that would go well, and then we'd commit a penalty or 
turn the ball over." 
Stanford 1 0, Fisher 0 
The Stanford Express just keeps on rolling. Every week, they shovel in some more coal 
see STUDS/ page 1 0 


SAINT MARY'S SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
CHALLENGING ACADEMIC PROGRAM FOCUSING ON THE ASIAN WORLD 16 SEMESTER CREDITS APPLICABLE TOWARDS CORE OR MAJOR REQUIREMENTS 
OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL AND STUDY IN MANY COUNTRIES OF FAR EAST, SOUTHEAST ASIA, SOUTH ASIA, EASTERN AND WESTERN EUROPE. 
COST: A SEMESTER'S SMC TUITION ,ROOM &BOARD PLUS A SURCHARGE. 
INFORMATION MEETING THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1994 7 P.M. SAINT MARY'S HAGGAR PARLOR FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: DR. C. PULLAPILLY MADELEVA 336.SMC. 284,4468/4474 
1994 STUDENTS WITH MOTHER TERESA 
2. Stanford 10 
7. Fisher 
The Observerrrom Roland 

The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Stanford safety Charlie Algier picked off two passes for the Studs. 
• MEN'S TENNiS 
Sprouse qualifies nationally 
Observer Staff Repon Crowley of Iowa by a 7-6 (6), 6­
4 score in the Monday after­
MADISON, Wise. noon championship.Sprouse 
University of Notre Dame ju­and Crowley both qualify for nior Mike Sprouse lost in the the Rolex National Indoor championship match of the Tournament that will be held in Rolex Midwest Regional Dallas from Feb. 2-5. Championship on Monday in In doubles action at the tour­collegiate men's tennis action. nament, Sprouse and his part­Sprouse started Monday with a nerjunior Jason Pun fell in the 7-6 {6), 7-5 victory over Alex semifinals of the event with a 4­Teixeria of Ball State in the 6, 6-4, 6,3 loss to Arvid Swan semifinals and fell to Brian and Geoff Prentice of Michigan. 
The Thomas J. White Center on Law &Government and The Robert &Marion Short Chair 
present: 
Professor Michael Perry Howard J. Trienens Chair in Law 
The Morality of Homosexual Conduct: A Response to John Finnis 
Thursday, November 1Oth 
4:00p.m. in the Law School Courtroom 


-~--­

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 8, 1994 
• fENCING 
.. 
Notre Dame fencing returns to action in U. Chicago Invitational 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
For the Notre Dame fencing team, this past Saturday might not have begun with a flourish, but it sure ended with one. 
As the team loaded onto a bus early Saturday morning to jour­ney to Chicago for the University of Chicago Invitational, the bus did not start. Men's head coach Mike DeCicco worked quickly to get the team some form of trans­portation. 
Eventually three different vehicles were located to trans­port the team to the windy city. 
• 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon 

Do Club-The Club would 
like to congratulate the fol· 
lowing members who par­
ticipated in the Association 
Tournament: Keisuke 
Kotani, Laura Considine, 
Chris Folk, Rob O'Neill. 
Brian Froelke, Mike Nahas. 
David Rojas, Marianna 
Safronova, Todd Schorer. 
Stacy Stough, Chris 
Strother, and Doug Victor. 
Thanks also to everyone 
who came out to support 
the competitors. 
Yoga-RecSports class #2 begins Wednesday. November 2 from 5:45 ­
7:00 In room 114 of Loftus. 
Turkey Shoot-Team tar­get shooting contest on Monday, November 14 and Tuesday the 15th from 4:00· 6:00 pm. Co-Ree teams of two men and two women. Register in advance at RecSports. Deadline is November 10. Members of ROTC rifle squad not eligible. For info calll-6100 
"I would like to thank Bubba Cunningham (assistant director of athletics) and Marty Ogren (transportation manager) for doing an excellent job in getting us to Chicago," DeCicco said. 
And are they ever glad they made the trip. 
Despite the auspicious begin­ning, the defending national champions picked up where they finished last season,' with the first three Irish teams fin­ishing in the top three. The first and second teams placed one and two, respectively, while the third Irish team tied with Wayne State's No. 1 team for Chris Hajnik before the captain was able to close the bout 25­18. 

"The way this tournament runs, you don't have to know a lot about fencing to get ex­cited," DeCicco added. 
Nevertheless, Hajnik re­bounded in the championship match by defeating sophomore Jeremy Siek 5-1, capturing the title for the No. 1 team, 25-11. Along with Hajnik on that team were Rakesh Patel and Stan Brunner at epee and foil re­spectively. Junior foilist Maria Panyi and epeeist Claudette De Bruin only allowed five touches against them the whole day. 
"Right now I feel that our men's and women's foil teams are two of the premier teams in the country," DeCicco com­mented. 
As for the other three teams, Coach DeCicco saw promise as well. The men's epee team got a big boost from underclassmen Carl Jackson, Brian Stone, and Brice Dille. 
"Since Patel was our only re­turning starter I was a little concerned," DeCicco said. "However, my concerns were eased on Saturday." 
Both the women's sabre and epee teams also showed flashes of brilliance Saturday under pressure situations. 
"Some young people gained valuable experience," DeCicco said. 
The defending champs will not fence again until the middle of January. Until then, the Irish will scrimmage to ready themselves for the heart of the season. 
"Our objective from now to break is to do some inter-squad bouting to get some of our younger players more experi­ence," DeCicco said. 
third place. The No. 4 and No. 5 Irish teams finished eighth and ninth, respectively. 
"We were uncertain about some of the talent we had and the invitational help us gauge that talent," DeCicco said. "I saw some very good things on Saturday." 
Coach DeCicco was able to see these things since the format of the tournament allowed for the Notre Dame teams to square off against each other. 
For example, in the semifinals the Irish's No. 1 and No. 3 teams fenced each other. The 

Alliance for Catholic Education
No. 1 team held a commanding 20-5 lead heading into sabre. However, sophomore Jeff Wartgow made the bout excit­ing by reeling off thirteen 

WINTER COMIN'? 
touches against sabre captain 

SPECIAL OFFER! HEAD SOUTH 
STUDENTS ONLY! 
Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame 

WITH ACE! 
Football Today, reg. $4995 , now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on NO football." A must for every student 

Be ateacher and discover:
and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634~1740 

--Professional teacher trainin[ 
--Community life 
--Spiritual development 
Informational meetin[: 
Wednesday, November 9th, 7:00 pm in the 
LaFortune Ballroom. Any Uuestions? Call 
Sean McGraw at 631-7052. 

NCAA WOMEN'S SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP 


 at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  
SATURDAY, NOV. 12-REGIONAL SEMIFINAL . 1p.m. 1 TBA vs. William &Mary 3:30 p.m. 1 TBA vs. NOTRE DAME SUNDAY, NOV. 13-REGIONAL FINAL 2p.m 1 Winners of Saturday's Games  

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
(HEC I' ().1-r 1fns  S< E t\•v' 1\lt:l'l!.~ (•mPAAoN b,  {I.JELL  Loo>"  A.-T.Ie. ll>lo CuTS  
"BA~l>-A•t>  (oll\1'\E.I!.<oAL  f-\o.,lt\1">  ()r.~ Cu.-f\E."L 5  li\£•{~  \VEI"To<-AL  
()N  -r.v..  fAsr~"'  I!Jn"  Al3P.No-A•t>1  \N £v~e11.'1  r<E.~P£<-'l".  AP.E.  
\[E(l..sos 1"\•s On1u Or·Ho.?  T~<"-'j ... AP.£  Lto-> GE mNC.  
£:'y.PI(.'T'L'1·"  A,-7  
Iii£ ':)p,m£ ...  

AR£ 'IOV AI..L RIG\.\\? WAAI'S 111£ Mt\i\ER!' W\-1~ ft..Q.£ 'IOV CN..l.I~G !' 
BUT I'M WORRIED Tl-\AT OUR COMPANY 
52 Vincent Price classic 54 Applications 
55 Eroded 56 Revenue 57 For fear that 
58 Clown's prop, at times 59 British gun 
DOWN 
1 Priests' robes 2 Ice cream treat 3Cruising 4 More like 
far-fetched dog stories? 5AIIenand Frome 6 Jeremy of stage 
and screen 7 Pain in the joints a Altitudes: Abbr. 9 Jail, slangily 
10 Market 11 Decorate 12 Hardly a show 
of self-restraint 2a"God-" 13 Villain's look 
· (sneeze response)
18 Opposite of a purl 30 Makes java 22 Boss of bosses 
31 The Bambino 24 Adjective for 
32Wordsof
Alexander understanding
25Dits' 33 Seed
counterparts, in Morse code 35Whispers 26 Neighborhood 3&Winsthe 27 Pharmacist's strongman container contest 
DAVE KELLETT 
BILL WATTERSON 
I 1\)Lt;) 1\.\E. TH,C\-\£R I 1-11\D TO Gn \() nit:-BAniROOI"\. 0\J\C.K, W\U>.T'S 1\ +7? 
SCOTT ADAMS 
1'\A.N I I'fv\ 
45 Artist's stand 47 Conductor 
Riccardo 48 Take a swipe at 49 Earn 50 Clumsy ones? 53-bran 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
• 


.. 
Please, Recycle The Observer 
DILBERT 
I. DON'T 1"\INO 
DONATING 
BLOOD ... IT'S GOOD FOR SOCIETY 
) 


FORM LINE 
28 Pipe type 29 Pisces's follower 30 Use the 
Osterizer 31 Hauler's truck 34 Shaw classic 37 Gal of song 38 "-mycase!" 39 -Mongolia 40 Is the worrywart 41 Olympics 
ceremony song 42 Peruvian pack 
animals 45 O.T. book 46 Scale's reading 47 He-man's 
display 51 Sham 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1"Amo,-,1 
love a lass" 5 Rowing crew 1 o Nickname for 
Barbara 14 Whip 15 Something to 
plight 16 Tennis score 17 Dickens classic 19 Neighborhood 20 Not fresh, as 
water 21 Cry in ·Arsenic and Old Lace" 23 Goes out, in a 
card game 24 Millet subject 25 Ships' cranes 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
APS I SINAZ liS LAW GRANT OMAN PINA TENCOMMANDMENTS 

SPE~-~~~;~
ABOA "f~ SOON E.SST 
l.!g!! D ••W\t'R 
~0 
RIEL AUT 0 CAT ZOOMED CAMP~S STUN 0 L E I C. S C H L EM I E L 
CASTiFTHO-SANDS ACHE RAMS EIGHT 
S K Y S 0 8 0 E C L A S S 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
INTRAM~fiD"i_AiJLINES 
INOVEMBER 10 I 
IH Basketball -Men & Women Club Basketball Grad I Faculty I Staff Basketball IH Hockey Grad I Faculty I Staff Hockey 

INOVEMBER17I 
Campus Squash Campus Table Tennis -Singles Co-Ree Wallyball 
Sign up in the RecSports Office, JACC. Captain's Meetings will be held for all Team Activities. 
631-6100 

• SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, November 8, 1994 
• MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

.. 

By TODD RUTH 
Sports Writer 
In a supposedly mismatched game, top seeded Carroll was downed by 8th seed Flanner in the first game of the playoffs last Sunday. 

r It was close the whole way with both defenses coming up big on third down plays to keep the game scoreless through the third quarter. But late in the fourth, Flanner took control on offense, totaling 56 yards on their running game and airing out a 35 yard pass to take a 7-0 lead with the extra-point conversion. But Carroll did not let Flanner's offensive outburst remain unan­swered. On their very next pos­session, Carroll compiled eighteen yards on the ground, mixed in with a receiver screen for twenty more yards. A costly unsportsmanlike penal­ty on the screen play gave the Vermin fifteen additional yards, landing them on the Flanner fif­teen yardline. Needing a touch­
down to stay alive in the game and in the playoffs, Carroll stunned Flanner with a fifteen yard pass play that brought them to the endzone for six. 
Down by one, the Carroll extra­point snap was mishandled, leav­ing the Gamecocks on top 7-6. 
Each team tried to open up a passing game early on, but ended up amassing the majority of their yardage on the ground. Of the 98 yards Carroll gained, 56 of them came on the ground. Flanner totaled 134 yards on the day, 94 of which came from the run. 
For the halftime entertainment, several band members braved the frigid weather to perform "Call Me AI," and to root on Flanner. 
Off-Campus 20, Alumni 0 

After being held to three and out on their first possession, Off­Campus came storming back with a touchdown drive to put them in the lead 7-0. 
It took Off-Campus a mere eight plays to total 63 yards, with the score coming on Chris Hammond's three yard option run. Off-Campus never let up on Alumni, holding the Dawgs to a total of seven plays in the entire first half. 
While focusing their attention on getting their offense in line, Off­Campus evened out their offense to score again on seven plays totaling 93 yards. 
Coming out of halftime with a comfortable 14-point lead for Off­Campus, the Crime was looking for more in the second half. On their first possession, Off-Campus came out and ran the ball for 30 yards then passed for another 25 yards, setting up a two yard pass to increase their lead 20-0. 
As for Alumni, the second half didn't fare too well for them at all. Snapping off eight plays for a total of twenty-one yards and two fumbles, Alumni just couldn't get together their composure to come in reach of even a field goal. 

It seemed the ambulance was on the field more than the teams as five players left the game with serious injuries in a 6-0 Siegfried win over Breen-Phillips that should have been post­poned due to a lack of available doctors at South Bend's Memorial Hospital. 
As the astroturf of Mayo Field claimed each of its victims, the delays of the game increased. The players lost intensity and grew weary, even hungry because the game was so frequently interrupted. 
t the end of regulation, the score was Astroturf 5, Siegfried 0, and BP 0. 
Then came the overtime-each team getting four plays from ten yards out. The Blitz got the ball first, and were shut down by a Slammer defense 
ch had previously posted two goal line stands in regulation. That left all the pressure on BP's defense. 
On Siegfried's second play, quarterback Marce McNeill found receiver Erin Ippolito wide open in the endzone for the game winning score. 
Earlier in the game, the Slammers' Margare 
er-man had suffered a serious knee injury. 
"We were all pretty upset about Margaret's 
ury," Ippolito said. "But we all just picked it up a 
Marce just made a great throw, and I was there 
make the catch." 


of note...
DALLAS DEFEATS GIANTS 
Fighting Irish Fencing team relish­

Smith, Aikman and the Cowboys too much 
es victory after convincing wins at 

for New York, losers of their last six games, 
the University of Chicago

in Monday Night Football NFC action, with 
Invitational Tournament. 
a lopsided 38-10 win. 








