

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
New center meets variety of needs 
/
I 
• 

Jennifer Deeter, one the employees of ECDC, Inc., plays ball with Alexandra Brothers. The University recently contracted with ECDC to open a child care center for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty, students, and staff. The center is located on Bulla Road. 

By JASON WILLIAMS constructed child care center The task force then studied Associate News Editor on Bulla Road just east of the various suggestions and Hesburgh Library. made recommendations to Uni­
How could Frank Lloyd versity officers. Wright have known his immor­The center, which will be for­The University answered the tal architectural phrase "form mally dedicated Sept. 18, has task force's call by laying out fits function" would so perfectly been roughly three years in the $1.8 million for a new child describe Notre Dame's new on­making, according to Roger care center. campus child care center? Mullins, director of human re­
sources. E.C.D.C., a corporation which 
How is it that Notre Dame "I was co-chair of a task force has run Saint Mary's child care faculty, staff, and students can that first evaluated the need for program for its 23-year exis­get so lucky as to have an on­a child care center and then tence, was contracted by Notre campus child care center. that developed a strategy as to how Dame to administer child care offers family income based the University could meet those services. scholarships which enable the needs," he said. "We're a non-profit organiza­center to give the best quality tion that provides an environ­care for the least possible cost? A random cross-section of ment that promotes social, 
These answers, and so much employees and students helped emotional and cognitive devel­more, are all wrapped up in the to define the University's child­opment," Terri Kosik, E.C.D.C. University funded Early Child­care needs by completing an executive director, said. "We hood Development Center extensive questionnaire and are serving the Notre Dame (E.C.D.C.), Inc., operated, newly participating in a series of focus and Saint Mary's community 
groups, he said. exclusively. In turn, they are 
Cease-fire: a step on road to peace 
By SARAH DORAN any discussion that grants that News Editor H·lrish/British Peace Talks point," he said. "Each side has locked into their positions." 
While the cease-fire an­What the IRA wants next Indeed, while the announce­nounced by the Irish Republi­: 1. Meetings between Sinn Fein ment has given hope that the can Army on Wednesday is a iand British officials about · end to one of world's most in­hopeful step towards achieving :future of Northern Ireland. tractable political and sectarian 
12. End to British ban on
a solidified peace in the North, conflicts is near, it has sowed 
0 • broadcast of IRA political
it must be emphasized that it is doubt into the nearly one mil­
· statements.

only one of many steps that lion Loyalists in the North. The 
. 3. Gradual withdrawal of 
must be taken to truly end the Protestant majority prefers to
;;18,000 British soldiers in 
300 year old conflict, said Fa­maintain ties to Britain, not
tNorthern Ireland. . . 

ther Ernan McMullin, professor unify with the Catholic south. 
k. What Sritain, Ireland wanL~.
emeritus of philosophy. "The main problem prevent­
)1;·. Permanent endro IRA ··~····~ 
"Of course it is a helpful step ing peace is not the British
iYiolence.;: : :; 
-but it is only one on a long troops in Northern Ireland -it
~Talks Win inclucfeiSinn Fein· road to a solution," he said. tt:unly afte(pa,rties i;tfe assur~i:J is the people in Northern Ire­
Looming large over the peace ;pt end to'Violence: ·:;-' . ~ land who want to remain affili­process are the conditions that ~~ ated with Britain," said Mc­the IRA has reiterated must be of Northern Ireland be changed Mullin. "The occupation is just fulfilled before they sit down to in unifjcation with Ireland, the a smoke screen. If troops leave the negotiating table with rep­Loyalists insist that this point is tomorrow, it would not solve resentatives from the British non-negotiable and impossible anything." government. While the IRA re­to concede, McMillan said. quires the constitutional status "Loyalists will noj enter into see ANALYSIS/ page 4 supporting us financially." 
Notre Dame is leasing the building to E.C.D.C at the rate of $1 per year, including main­tenance and landscaping. 
E.C.D.C. is providing Notre Dame faculty, staff, and stu­dents with efficient, high quali­ty care. 
To better handle the University's diverse economic population, E.C.D.C. designed an income-based tuition system that provides an internally funded scholarship program. 
For example, a family gross­ing $20,000 per year will pay $48 per week for five days of full time care -breakfast, lunch and snacks included. On the other hand, a family mak­ing $70,000 per year will pay the full tuition price of $110 per week for five days of full time care. 
"The families that are making $75,000 and above seem eager to pay a little above the market rate to help others afford qual­ity care," Kosik said. "It's really great. We have people here helping other people." 
Surprisingly, the constituency of the 167 currently enrolled children breaks-down into an almost perfect three-way split between faculty, staff, and stu­dents' kids, Kosik said. 
The 60 children on E.C.D.C.'s waiting list have a similar make-up. 
"We select children at ran­dom," she said. "A mathemati­
see KIDS/ page 6 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, September 2, 1994 
• World at a Glarme 
Powerful quake rattles nerves, but no injuries reported 
• inside Column 


Tales from 
a latch key 
past 

Notre Dame unveiled its new child care facility Monday and welcomed 167 pre-kindergartners, and its nice to know that now there's someplace Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty, staff and students can leave their kids while they're at work. 


Personally, I was a  By jASON  
latchkey bum.  WILLIAMS  
I'd come home from  Associate News Editor  
school, pop a Swanson's  
Fish and Chips T.V. din­ 

ner in the toaster oven and throw my body on the couch for hours upon hours of television exploitation. I'd guzzle a couple cans of root beer and quickly learned how easy it could be to let my mind and body turn to rot. 
But there were those occasional times when I'd get off the school bus at Garrett's house. Garrett was my best friend throughout my ele­mentary years, and we found plenty of time to raise a little hell whenever we got together. 
I grew up in a rural town in the Midwest, and I remember an old rancher named B.C. Jiles. He was retired, but he still kept a few horses in a small pasture across the street from his house. Garrett and I used to take our B.B. guns over to B.C.'s and take pot shots at his horses. He'd come stumbling out of his house wearing Jesse Duke style overalls and a cowboy hat, cursing and growling at us. We'd sprint back to Garrett's laughing all the way. 
Once Garrett dared me to take a leak on the electric fence that wrapped around the horse pasture. I knew better, but he didn't. A split second after his golden, yellow pee stream hit the fence he was thrown onto his behind almost five feet way from the urine-fence point of con­tact. A scream of bloody murder filled the air and so did the roars of my laughter. Garrett quickly wisped away a flurry of tears and even­tually gave in to laughter too. 
Another time, we stole into an abandoned house a few blocks away from mine. Garrett broke out a little kerosene tiki torch he. had stolen from his neighbor's lawn. I pulled out two fat cigars that would make George Burns' mouth water. We went upstairs in the old, creaky place to play with fire and smoke our stogies. Garret was rummaging around the house and found a brown glass bottle filled with what smelled like gasoline, but it was dark and murky like motor oil. Garrett, being the pyro­extrordinaire that he was, decided he'd pour the bottle's contents onto the tiki torch's open flame. A stream of frre danced up the liquid like a fuse and entered the bottle, exploding its contents all over the house's walls and floors. 

Garrett's jaw hit the floor. We looked at each other with bulging, awe-filled eyes and simulta­neously screamed "Holy--!" I think Garrett's bladder exploded faster than the glass bottle. I pushed him downstairs and we ran like terrified wild deer. 
The frre department came, Garrett confessed, I got my butt spanked-repeatedly. Garrett wasn't around much for the next few weeks. 
Today, Garrett is doing fine, and I guess I'm okay. At times I wonder how we survived. 
I sure don't want to be a prude of a parent, but I think I'll find a place -a place just like the new child care center-to be sure my kids are at least partially protected from childhood temptations and mischief. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Today's Staff  
News  Production  
Dave Tyler  Susan Marx  
Edward lmbus  Jackie Moser  
Sports  
RianAkey  Accent  
Viewpoint  Kim Massman  
Suzy Fry  Theresa Aleman  
Lab Tech  Graphics  
Michael Hungeling  Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during c:xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




Friday, September 2, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
New survey shows a cooling economy 
By KAREN GULLO 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The economy cooled in Au­gust but not enough to put the freeze on inflation, a widely fol­lowed survey of industrial com­panies showed Thursday. 
The National Association of Purchasing Management's Au­gust report showed activity at the nation's factories expanded at a much weaker pace than any time in the last eight months, suggesting that the economy is slowing down. 
But the survey, considered a key economic forecasting tool, found that the number of com­panies reporting higher prices for raw materials rose to the highest level in six years. That finding suggests that inflation pressures still menace the economy because those price increases could be passed on to consumers. 
Economists said the data doesn't necessarily mean a spi­ral of higher prices is immi­nent. Rather, they said, the survey reflects the inflationary effects of strong economic growth in the first half of the year. Inflation tends to rise in periods of rapid economic ex­pansion, when demand can outstrip supply. 
The purchasing managers report coincided with the re­lease of other economic data that presented a mixed picture of the economy. 
Weekly unemployment insur­ance claims reported by the La­bor Department hit a six-week high, as merchants and other businesses began laying off seasonal summer employees. Leading retailers said sales were mixed in August. The Commerce Department said construction spending rose moderately in July. 
The NAPM manufacturing in­dex, based on responses from purchasing managers at 300 large U.S. industrial firms, fell to 56.2 percent in August from 
57.8 percent in July. 




The Observer 
. .
1s now accepttng applications for the 
SMC Day Editors 
If interested in this.paid position, contact Beth Regan at 631-4540 or 284-4449. 
LAST CHANCE! 

The Obsever/Patrlck Harrington 

WWWipe out! 

Holly Barker, left, and Dawn Nowak take an abrupt break in their rollerblading in fieldhouse mall as they attend to the fallen Jessie Fiscus. 


Questions remain after fire 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
In a dispute underscoring the disarray in Russia's nuclear in­dustry, officials argued Thurs­day over the seriousness of a fire at an accident-prone nu­clear processing plant. 
The fire at the Mayak plant released radioactive gases into the atmosphere Wednesday. 
"It was a very unpleasant and grave incident, which, according to the preliminary reports, can be qualified as level three" on a seven-step international scale, said Yuri Rogozhin, a spokesman for the regulatory agency 

FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1995-96 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational 
meeting WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7-7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 
LIVE YOUR FAITH AT THE BASILICA 
Be a: 1. Eucharistic Minister 
2. 
Lector 

3. 
Server 

4. 
Usher 


Sophomores/] uniors/Seniors if you ministered last year we need you to help us start the new scholastic year of ministry. FRESHMEN SIGN UP AT THE ACTIVITIES NIGHT, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6 IN THE JACC 
rrre~se~igf1alld-rer~~-;o-s;-teresir~-a;rh_e_l3~5ilica_______________________, 
I
:NAME: 
I 
!ADDRESS: 
I 
!TELEPHONE: 
I 
!UNDERLINE YOUR PREFERENCE 5:00 Sat. 10:00 Sun. 11:45 Sun. L---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gosatomnadzor. 
According to the seven-level International Nuclear Events Scale, a level-three accident has major contamination and overexposure of workers at the site. 
The explosion and fire at the Chernobyl plant in April 1986, the world's worst nuclear acci­dent, was a seven on the scale. 
The prized nuclear industry has been in decline since the 1991 Soviet collapse, and West­ern environmentalists and nu­clear officials are worried about the safety and security of Russia's nuclear installations. 
Workers have staged strikes demanding back wages, secu­rity is said to be lax and acci­dents appear to be on the rise. There have been several seizures in Germany recently of weapons-grade material sus­pected to have come from Rus­sia. 
Officials at the Mayak plant and at the Nuclear Power Min­istry, which runs it, insisted Thursday there was no serious contamination or worker expo­sure. 
"The incident was a minor one, and it's totally wrong to qualify it as level three," said ministry spokesman Vitaly Na­sonov. 
"It was at least level three," said Lika Galkina, of the envi­ronmental group Greenpeace. 
The fire erupted in a shop at the plant in Ozyorsk, formerly the secret city of Chelyabinsk­65, 930 miles east of Moscow in the Ural Mountains. 
Mayak, created in the late 1940s to make plutonium for nuclear bombs, is now used to disassemble and reprocess nu­clear fuel rods from power sta­tions. 
Plant officials said a fuel rod's protective coating caught fire during reprocessing. Machines were automatically switched off and the fire was quickly extinguished, they said. 
Radioactive gases equal to 
4.36 percent of what the plant is allowed to release each year escaped into the atmosphere through plant filters, said a Mayak document quoted by the ITAR-Tass news agency. 
"The concentration of ra­dioactive gases could indeed be high around the shop's roof, but this kind of substances re­main dangerous only for a cou­ple of days," said Nasonov. 
But Galina, of Greenpeace, said the release had been eval­uated only on the amount of cesium-137 it contained. She said it was still not clear whether far more dangerous plutonium also was released, or if anyone was exposed to pluto­nium. 
Mayak spokesman Yevgeny Ryzhkov told ITAR-Tass there was no change in radiation l~v­els in areas adjacent to the shop. The shop was closed Thursday but the rest of the plant was operating. 
Mayak sits in one of the most polluted areas of Russia. It is surrounded by reservoirs, lakes and rivers storing huge amounts of liquid nuclear waste that now threaten the Ural Mountains water system. 
The worst accidents at Mayak were in 1957, when an explo­sion at a nuclear waste tank contaminated large areas of southern Ural Mountains, and in 1967, when winds carried radioactive particles from a drying-up and polluted lake across villages and farmlands. 

~~Good to the Last Drop•• 


Joel 

Best wishes on your 21st Birthday 
Mom. Dad. Corv 0. 


-

page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 2, 1994 
over 40 people, he added. many factions within the IRA McMullin said that the cease could have split." 
Cease fire holds as Analysis 
fire is largely the result of two But the process has not gone 

U.K. releases prisoners 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 

Britain returned four IRA 
prisoners to Northern Ireland 
on Thursday, in what first 
looked like a ~ck and poten­
tially embarrassing reward to 
the IRA as its cease-fire took 
hold. 
Prime Minister John Major's office in London said he was furious that the timing made it appear he had responded to the IRA, which had demanded just such a gesture when it an­nounced the cease-fire Wednesday. 
The transfer was especially sensitive because two prison­ers were convicted of a 1984 bombing that nearly killed Major's predecessor, Margaret Thatcher. 
"The prime minister was livid about this, in that this was a decision taken by officials and not referred to ministers," said a spokeswoman in Major's London office, speaking on condition she not be identified. 
Earlier, Major appeared to move closer to accepting that the cease-fire is the permanent halt to violence demanded by Britain and Ireland. It took ef­fect at midnight Wednesday. 
And a Protestant clergyman who has met with pro-British "loyalist" gunmen said they may cease fire too, if they can be assured Northern Ireland's place in the United Kingdom is­n't threatened. 
Thursday night, a gunman killed a Roman Catholic man working on a car in a predomi­nantly Catholic area of north Belfast, police said. It was the first shooting death since the cease-fire began. No group claimed responsibility. 
In a second attack in north Belfast Thursday night, a taxi was hit by gunfire but the Catholic driver escaped unin­jured. Local councilman Joe Austin said the driver was lured to a house by a bogus call and the shooting occurred when he arrived. The Protestant paramilitary group the Ulster Defense Association claimed responsibility for that attack. 
After the cease-fire an­nouncement Wednesday by the IRA, Gerry Adams, president of its allied political party Sinn Fein, called for moving IRA prisoners out of English jails and other gestures. 
The IRA and Sinn Fein want IRA prisoners transferred from England to Northern Ireland so that they can be closer to their families. The four prisoners had been told July 5 that they were due for a transfer, Major's office said. 
Major did not object to the transfer, but "I think what the prime minister is concerned ... that this particular transfer took place today, at such a sen­sitive time," the spokeswoman said. 

Major ordered an inquiry into the transfer authorized by Prisons Service. 
The prisoners included IRA men Patrick Magee and Gerard McDonnell, both serving life sentences for bombing the ho­tel where Thatcher was staying during a Conservative Party conference. The blast killed five people, including a mem­ber of Parliament. 
Magee was sentenced to eight life terms, with no possi­bility of release for 35 years. 
Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds embraced the IRA cease-fire announcement, but Major is asking for assurances the cease-fire is permanent. 
"We are not looking for any kind of formal statement or anything of that kind," said Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Cabinet official for Northern Ireland. He said it would be enough for Sinn Fein to say Reynolds "understands what we in­tended and he's got it right." 
Irish officials pointed to an article by Adams in Thursday's editions of the Irish Times, say­ing: "Albert Reynolds ... and others have responded posi­tively and correctly to the IRA announcement." 
Major's office didn't respond immediately, but did welcome a statement by Sinn Fein vice president Martin McGuinness that the IRA intended a "com­plete cessation of military operations under all circum­stances." 
McGuinness' remarks "do move things forward a little," a spokesman for Major said on condition of anonymity. 
Once it is sure the cease-fire is permanent, Britain says, it will open talks on having Sinn Fein join negotiations on the future of Northern Ireland. 
The Rev. Roy Magee, a Pres­byterian minister who has met with Protestant gunmen to ar­gue for an end to the violence, said the IRA declaration was being studied by the two main groups, the Ulster Defense As­sociation and the Ulster Volun­teer Force. 

continued from page 1 
Progress towards peace is as much in the hands of Loyalists. McMullin said that Loyalist paramilitary forces may ~ttempt to sabotage any progress. 
"In the short term, there is a fear of loyalists sabotaging everything while the IRA has decided that it is time to stop fighting," said McMullin. Over the last few weeks,forces on the Loyalist side have murdered factors, IRA weariness as the result of their 25-year cam­paign of bloodshed and terror and a desire to be part of the current climate of a more uni­fied Europe. 
He also gave considerable credit to the leadership of Gerry Adams, the head of Sinn Fein, the IRA's political arm. 
"Adams has been the main contributor." said McMullin. "He has brought the IRA along, and persuaded them that this is the way to go especially when uninfluenced by the Clinton Administration, said McMullin. In granting Adams a visa to come to New York last spring, Clinton "gave him a little more legitimacy," he said. 
While the track to peace seems clearer than it basin the past, the task is nothing if not substantial. 
"A peace is definitely possi­ble, and the cease-fire extreme­ly hopeful," said McMullin. "But the barriers in the way of it are more than 300 years old." 


Friday 
12:00 p.m. 
Football Legends Luncheon 
ChiCII//0 Hilton &TOWIJPS 720 I. Michigan 
7:00p.m. 
Pep Rally 
Chicago BiRon &TOWill'S 
Saturday 
2:00 p.m. -Game 
Tailgate/block JJartJ 
Chicago Hiltol &TBWBPS 
7:00p.m. 

Notre Da• vs. Nm-thwestern 
811/llieP F•lll 

Aner-uame Party 
Duffy's 
I.J 

420 W. DiVIII'BBY Unlimitedbevepages williSI 0 admission tee 
Notre Dame Club of Chicago, 25 E. Washington, Suite 1125, Chicago, IL 60602/ Fax (312)782-7118 Proceeds of NO Club events benefit the Notre Dame Chicago Scholarship Foundation 


••  Explbre the cugural richness of Chicago  
< ~  ExarriihEfisst.l~§of diversity and related  
C'on2grns ):•  

• Ont:> q~~}tih~ology or· sociology. 
WASHINGTQN SEMINAR 
Vio lenck in Amt?tica 
..• Dir~cFcoptactWith politica1, agency,& ····Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
• Servi~~ ~n(i political awareness 

Friday, September 2, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Eleven year old found dead No progress in U.S.­
By TERRI LIKENS 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

His nickname was "Yummy." In a short life ftlled with abuse, he was prosecuted at least eight times for felonies before police sought him in a shooting spree that left one teen-ager dead and two others wounded. 
Officers found Robert Sandi­fur in a pool of blood beneath a railroad overpass Thursday. He was 11. 
Robert's body -not yet 5 feet, not quite 70 pounds -lay about seven blocks from where police believe he opened fire Sunday at two different groups of boys, fatally hitting a 14­year-old girl. Shavon Dean, about 10 yards from her home. 
Robert was suspected of hav­ing gang ties, and two gunshot wounds -one to the back of the head, one to the top -led police to suggest fellow gang members had killed him. Au­thorities had a suspect in the boy's slaying. 
Solemn neighbors gathered around the pool of Robert's blood in the South Side neigh­borhood of neat yards and well­kept homes. Adults showed young children the still-wet blood, as a warning. 
"This is our problem," Va­lerie Jordan said. "The au­thorities and the system have failed. This is our child. The young lady that was killed, that was our baby." 
In the last two years, Robert was prosecuted for felonies in­cluding robbery, car theft, ar­son and burglary. He was con­victed twice and received pro­bation, although one judge sen­tenced him to three weeks of detention for probation viola­tions. 
Robert was no stranger to the state's child welfare agency, ei­ther. 
A 1986 investigation by the Department of Children and Family Services found scars on Robert's face, cordlike marks on his abdomen and leg, and cigarette burns on his buttocks. 
Robert was taken from his mother and placed with his grandmother, who nicknamed him "Yummy" for his love of cookies. Complaints that she was not supervising the boy led 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Copy Editors 

~ Interested persons should submit a letter of 
intent and resume to Sarah Doran by 5:00 p.m., Thursday, September 2. Questions? Please call Sarah at 631-5323. 
to his placement in a juvenile facility in 1993, but he ran away. 
In July a judge returned Robert to his grandmother until the boy could be put in an out­of-state detention center that permits locking in or physically restraining children, both of which are forbidden in Illinois. 
"This kid got missed a num­ber of times in the system," said Dr. Elva Poznanski, chief of child psychiatry at Rush Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago. "It points out the fact that there is just simply not enough placement available for kids." 
Poznanski said she's seeing more and more violence among young children, many the prod­ucts of abusive homes. 
"If you don't provide some way to raise these kids to be useful citizens you're going to spend a hell of a lot of money on the other end," she said. 
Robert's grandmother, Janie Fields, became hysterical be­fore she shut the door on re­porters. 
"I really can't say what I'm going through," she said. "But I know my baby's not here any­more and I can't say I love you Robert, anymore." 
Police Superintendent Matt Rodriguez said the boy's death should send a message to other youths that "the promises of the gangs . . . are not promises of things that are good." 
Standing in front of Robert's flood, Edward Jones said it was ironic that the boy died "think­ing he'd found a family" with a gang. 
As Jones talked, a cocky boy not older than 12 stepped in the blood as he walked toward the light at the end of the over­pass. 
Jones pointed to the boy. "That's what it's all about," he said. 
Cuban refugee talks 
By LOUIS MEIXLER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
U.S. and Cuban officials reached no agreement Thurs­day in talks seeking to halt the flood of Cuban rafters trying to reach Florida. 
The sides decided to meet again Friday, changing the venue from the U.S. mission to the United Nations to Cuba's mission. 
The U.S. side described the talks as "serious, professional and businesslike." The Cuban side did not comment immedi­ately. 
Although Cuba wanted to broaden the agenda to discuss easing the U.S. economic em­bargo and other issues, the United States insisted on a lim­ited agenda of migration issues. 
Both sides made initial pre­sentations and the United States focused on migration, 
U.S. law enforcement and returning Cuban criminals now in U.S. jails, David Johnson, a spokesman for the U.S. delega­tion said after talks recessed Thursday. 
He did not elaborate about the criminals but he apparently referred to the 1,397 Cubans in 
U.S. prisons and jails who ar­rived 14 years ago in the Mariel boatlift that brought 125,000 Cubans to the United States. 
Criminals also are said to be among the 19,000 Cubans who fled their homeland last month in an exodus that prompted the current talks. 
After a working lunch, John­son said, the United States dis­cussed details of how to reach "a mutual objective ... handling the desire to immigrate in an orderly predictable and de­pendable process and stem­ming the uncontrollable out­flow" of refugees. 
Cuban diplomats said their government had ordered them not to talk with reporters while the negotiations continued, but delegation leader Ricardo Alar­con appeared on U.S. televi­sion. 
In an interview on NBC's To­day show Thursday, Alarcon again said that ending the 32­year U.S. embargo against Cuba was crucial to ending the exodus. 
"A number of Cubans now feel compelled to get out of the country, which is suffering from many external factors ... due to the economic embargo ... That is why the exodus is taking place." 
A half-dozen Cuban protest­ers gathered outside the U.S. mission chanting "Liberty" and "The problem with Cuba is Fidel." Security was tight at the 10-story building across from 
U.N. Headquarters. 
• Security Beat 
Security Special 
Security recovered a bicycle, a bur­
gundy colored women's 26 inch bicycle. 
They suspect it was taken before this 
academic year began, possibly during the 
summer or last semester, and want to 
find its owner IMMEDIATELY. People 
wishing to claim the bicycle should cal1 
Del. Pat Cottrell, 631-8340. 
TUES. AUG. 30th 

7:50 a.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Bulla Road. There were no injuries reported. 
11:10 a.m. A Lyons hall resident re­ported the theft of her bike from the Rockne Memorial bike rack. 
5:30 p.m. Security responded to a four car accident on Angela Blvd. There were minor injuries reported. 
MON. AUG. 29th 11 :08 p.m. An off-campus student the 
12:42 p.m. A visitor was transported theft of his student ID card from the to St. Joseph Medical Center b y ambu­Rockne Memorial. lance for treatment of a heart condition. 
1:48 p.m. Security responded to a WED. AUG. 31th two car accident on Juniper Road. There 7:30 a.m. Security responded to a were no injuries reported. suspicious person complaint by a Morris· 
6:01 p.m. An off-campus student a Inn employee. The subject was arrested suspicious person by St. Mary's Lake. and taken to the St Joseph's county jail. The subject was questioned, issued a 4:45 p.m. A University employee trespass letter and escorted of f campus. reported the theft of her hang tag from 
her unlocked vehicle while parked on campus. 

RETREAT 

OCTOBER 7-9, 1994
DATES: 
FORMS 

September 5-9
AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP 

September 9 -4:00 p.m.
DEADLINE: 

CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 1 03 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
COST: $25.00 
South Bend,s New 

Dairy 
Queen 
r® 

"A fun place to be on St. Rd. 23!" 
St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood Near Martin's Small Bli or reeze 


urgers 
now on sale for only 
~.$119 •. 

_99'·~·
..

A~j from 9/6--9/25 1 • -• · for all of September • 
NO"" HIRING 
r$r0 C>Ffl~~~~P~lr50¢()~ 
any Royal Treat I
299 I

I(Made with Dairy Queen Soft Setve or Yogurt) II II G •11 d ch0 k I Banana Split . II 1·1 rl e IC en I 
0

I Peanut Buster Parfait S d hI Hot Fudge Brownie Delight II ••1 an WIC I 
Nutty Double Fud.. • • Soft Serve Y ogu •
I Not valid with any other offe . II Not valid with any other offer. II Not valid with any other offer. I Umit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. .J L Limit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. .J L Umit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. .J
L -------0 -------------­
-~--~­
-----------------------------. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 2, 1994 
instructors with each group of with downs syndrome, lan­The Troyer Group of building, which were sculpted students at all times. guage delays and hearing Mishawaka designed the build­into different animal shapes,
Kids 
Sometimes there are as many impairments. ing in consultation with Notre and the playground sandbox, 

continued from page 1 
cian would say it would never happen, but its an almost per­fect one third to one third to one third ratio." 
The center is run by 20 full­time personnel who all hold at least bachelor's degrees in a child-related field. E.C.D.C. has also hired 10 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's undergraduates to assist at the new center. 
There are at least two 

as four adults working with the children, Kosik said. 
"Most of the students we hire are pursuing child related fields like sociology and education," she said. 
"We're still looking for volun­teers. The lower we keep the child to adult ratio, the more attention we can give to the children." 
E.C.D.C. also serves special 
needs students. The new center has children 
The center enrolls students between the ages of two and six years during the school year and two and nine years in the summer. 
· A twelve member board of di­rectors consisting of elected Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty, students, and staff monitor E.C.D.C.'s activities. The board members are elected by parents of children enrolled in the child care center. 
Dame officials and Kosik. 
"I've worked with (Troyer) before on a project in 1990, so when Notre Dame chose them I was really excited" Kosik said. "I sat down with the architect and a few Notre Dame people, and we designed the building exactly how we wanted it." 
And they did just that. Two people, an architect and a child care specialist, designed vir­tually everything, right down to the shrubs that surround the 
AYRES FOR BACK· TO-SCHOOL 
AYRES FOR LEVI'S® 
Better-than-ever basics from Levi's® ... logo tees, knits, jeans and more. You'll find them all in our Juniors' and Young Men's Departments. 
which is big enough to hold 40 children at once. 
"By Indiana state law our playground isn't supposed to have more than 375 students on it at one time-we'll never have more than 120," Kosik said. "Isn't this playground great?" 
Great? Coining an architec­tural epigram is great; a sand­box big enough for 40 kids at once could very well be the eighth wonder of the world. 
-?'· 


------~ Friday, September 2, 1994 The Observer • MEDICAL NEWS 
Aid. 

The UniversiiT_ Progr:amFrom Standard Federal Bank 
New AIDS treatments sought 
By RICHARD COLE Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Less than a month after an international AIDS conference in Japan reported little progress in drug therapy, the federal government has launched a $25 million pro­gram for alternative treat­ments. 
More money and applications are slated to be approved next year, officials of the National Institutes of Health said Thurs­day. They acknowledged that the future of drug and vaccine therapies appears gloomy in the battle against AIDS. 
The treatments getting the money aim to strengthen the immune system and genetically attack HIV, said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the NIH's Na­tional Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. 
"This effort is crucial because 

Get ano-annual-fee VISA" Classic Card and alow-cost Regular Checking Account including no per-check fees (and we even buy back your old checks*) with the University Program from Standard Federal. 
Use this financial aid to buy books, supplies, trips home and other essentials. Then obtain aPersonal Identification Number (PIN) for your University Program VISA Card. It will help you access your account, without transaction 
Helping You Along The Way."' 
Standard Federal Bank Savings/Financial Services 
Memb..-~ FDIC l'EN= ©1994 Standard Federal Bank 
1404 E. Ireland 17330 State Rd. 23 in front of at Douglas Rd. Scottsdale Mall 219/277-0300 219/291-8483 
currently available anti-HIV drugs only partially and tem­porarily suppress replication of the virus, and their use is ham­pered by toxicity and drug re­sistance," he said. 
More than 14 million people worldwide are already infected by HIV, and the World Health Organization has projected that the disease could kill 121 mil­lion people by the year 2020. 
The NIH money will be di­vided among six institutions: The New England Medical Cen­ter in Boston, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Michigan, the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, Stanford University and the University of California at San Diego. 
All must begin human trials by at least the third year of the four-year grants. 
The Stanford team is taking infection-fighting cells out of 
Happy 21st Birthday 
Love Mom, Dad & Stephanie 
cial 
fees, through more than 200 Standard Federal Cash Machine AIMs and Standard Federal's TeleBanking services. You can also use your card at thousands of CIRRUS~ NetworkOne~ MoneyMover" and MagicUne' AIM rnachinest 
Call or visit Standard Federal Bank today for more infonnation about how you can enjoy the financial aid of the University Program. 
•Ask for dt:lails t Thm: is no ftt for aVlSA cash advance H~r. thert ts aTI'IOI:k<1 [tt for lXOO transactiOI'l!. completro at an ATM that IS 1'101. owned and opettto:i by Standard Fedf:ral 


52710 U.S. 31 North 216 W. Washington across from North 219/234-7171 Village Mall 219/277-3922 

healthy people, treating them and inserting them into a sib­ling with AIDS. 
Along the same line, the New England researchers seek to boost the number of the body's so-called killer T cells, the AIDS fighters the body initially pro­duces when infected. 
So far, the new grants repre­sent only a small part of the NIAID's $558 million budget. But the agency says it is com­mitted to expanding the initia­tive. 
Experts studying how to halt the AIDS epidemic say this week in the journal Science that a powerful vaccine alone will not conquer AIDS and could even make the epidemic worse, because it might create a false sense of safety and cause people to ignore risks. 
They emphasize that it will take safe sex and other changes in behavior to stop the virus. 
Know the wamilg signs. Early detection may save your life. 
t . c:aAmerican HeartV Association 
c 1992, American Hear1 Association 

The Obse1V8r/Palrick Harrington 

No more delays 
Freshman Josh Noem goes right through the Hesburgh Library turnstiles, not knowing that the Library changed its policy of search­ing backpacks upon leaving only this semester. 
Patients support breast cancer pad 
ByLAURAN NEERGAARD Associated Press 
ROCKVILLE, Md. 
Breast cancer patients plead­ed with government regulators Thursday to allow the sale of a simple gadget that they contend will help thousands of women detect lumps in their breasts. 
But a panel of outside scien­tists advised the Food and Drug Administration to force the in­ventor of the Sensor Pad to prove the device doesn't actu­ally hide lumps that a woman might feel with her fingers alone. 
"The American woman is not so stupid that she doesn't know whether it works," a bitter Earl Wright, who has been seeking 

s A T 

Sign-up in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
Saturday September 3, 1994 
•. . 
8:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m. ll7 Cushing Auditorium 
FDA approval for his Sensor Pad for nine years, told the panel after its decision. "They'll return that pad in a minute if it doesn't work." 
"I feel like it saved my life," said Mary Gorman of Chevy Chase, Md., whose doctor could hardly feel the lump she dis­covered using the Sensor Pad -one a mammogram four months earlier hadn't detected. 
Breast cancer strikes 180,000 American women every year and kills 46,000. Early detec­tion is essential to survival, so all women are advised to exam­ine their breasts every month for lumps. 
But the friction of dry skin makes tiny lumps difficult to detect, so many women exam­ine their breasts in the shower, where soap and water ease the friction. 
That's the premise behind Wright's Sensor Pad -silicone gel sealed between two sheets of plastic that he says acts as a "dry lubricant." Its label says the 10-inch sheet is laid over a woman's breast like a cloth, helping her fmgers explore the contours of something as small as a grain of salt. 
And Illinois state Sen. Penny Severns, who found a small cancer in July but thinks the pad might have helped her find it earlier, said just having the device at home will remind women to check their breasts. 
"Whatever we can do to pro­mote awareness and self-exam­ination, coupled with mammo­grams, we must do," said Sev­erns. Her two sisters, one of whom died of the disease, had breast cancer. 
But Wright has never proved the Sensor Pad doesn't mask lumps, that it wouldn't give women such a false sense of security that they abandon vital mammograms and doctor ex­ams, or even the claim that it can detect a lump as small as a grain of salt. 
In fact, the only women who ever tested it were45 who used it on foam models of breasts ­models that aren't even the quality used to train doctors, the scientists said. 


-
--..... page8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 2, 1994 
Israeli 

French nab 
Israel, Morocco establish relations 
By DAN PERRY Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin were not likely to affect Israel's a bushy mustache. Associated Press said the missions would be relations with its immediate For several years opened in the near future, but neighbors or spur stalled peace tourists -banned from most JERUSALEM gave no dates. talks with Syria. Arab states -have been al­
Morocco established diplo­"These events are the result "But it is another step for­lowed into Morocco through matic relations with Israel on of the government's change in ward, creating the appearance third countries, and trade has Thursday, the latest break­policy towards the peace pro­that the progress is irre­already reached hundreds of through in a banner year for cess," Rabin said. In the past versible," he said. "Israel is millions of dollars. Now direct Mideast peace and a move that 12 months, Israel has signed a finding its place politically in air links are likely to be estab­kindled hopes of wider regional peace accord with the Palestine the region." lished. cooperation. Liberation Organization and a The development is a major Morocco is also planning to 
non-belligerency pact with Jor­boost to Israelis who have been host a Middle East economic 
The development comes after dan. isolated from most of the Mid­cooperation conference in Oc­years of lukewarm, frequently dle East for their country's en­tober with the participation of secret ties and made Morocco Peres said the move heralded tire 46-year history. Some most countries in the region, the only Arab country besides "the building of a new region." 600,000 Israelis -almost one including Israel, and thousands Egypt to have official links with Israel had hoped Morocco in 10 -are of Moroccan of companies. the Jewish state. and other moderate Arab and Jewish descent. Rafi Edri, a legislator from 
The ties will be low-level, Muslim states such as Tunisia the governing Labor Party who with the two countries opening would quickly establish ties af­Rabin visited Rabat last played a key role in arranging liaison offices in Tel Aviv and ter the Jewish state and the September after the accord the ties, told The Associated Rabat. But Foreign Minister PLO signed their historic peace with the PLO was signed. That Press a Moroccan envoy came Shimon Peres said he expected pact last September. was the first official visit by an to Israel on Aug. 14 to discuss "a continuation" when asked if Peres said a domino effect Israeli prime minister to Mo­the issue. Edri flew to Rabat the countries would exchange was not guaranteed but added: rocco after years of clandestine days later with concrete pro­ambassadors soon. "I assume this will have an ef~ contacts, including Moroccan posals from Rabin, he said. 
feet on other countries. We are efforts to broker Israeli peace 
Morocco said it was simulta­working on this." talks with Egypt that culmi­Israeli media reports said neously opening a liaison office nated in a 1979 peace treaty. Morocco's King Hassan II de­in Gaza, where the new Pales­Asher Susser, a Middle East In 1976, during his first term cided on the move because he tinian administration of Yasser expert at Tel Aviv University, as prime minister, Rabin had wants to play a role in deter­Arafat is trying to establish it­said relations with the geo­visited the kingdom secretly, mining the future of the Muslim self. graphically distant kingdom disguised by heavy glasses and holy places in Jerusalem. 
terrorism suspects 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
PARIS 

Acting on orders of France's top anti-terrorism judge, police on Thursday arrested at least 27 Algerian and Moroccan immigrants linked to suspects in the recent murder of two Spanish tourists in Morocco. 
Authorities said Judge Jean­Louis Bruguiere ordered the sweep on the basis of informa­tion provided by Moroccan po­lice following the arrest of four suspects in a murder and rob­bery Aug. 24 at a hotel in Mar­rakech, Morocco. 
Police searched dozens of residences in the Orleans and Paris regions, seizing Islamic tracts and documents from the homes of some suspects, ac­cording to informed sources speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Police in both Morocco and France have cracked down re­cently on alleged supporters of Muslim militants in Algeria wi;J.O are waging a bombing and assassination campaign to overthrow the army-installed government. 
The four suspects in the Mar­rakech attack have been identified as Algerians or Moroccans living in France. Two of them, Algerian-born Stephane Ait Idir, 22, and Moroccan-born Redouane Hammadi, 24, allegedly com­mitted several armed rob­beries in Paris over the past few months. 
Hammadi's brother, Rachid, 22, was among those arrested Thursday. 
King Hassan II has succeed­ed in containing Islamic mili­tants in Morocco, but its long desert frontier is considered a principal source of entry for arms and Islamic fighters into Algeria. 
Fifty-nine foreigners have been slain in Algeria this year and several thousand Algerians have died in the fun­damentalist insurgency that began in January 1992. 
A French citizen was shot to death in front of his house Aug. 25, the French Foreign Ministry said Thursday. The slaying brings to 17 the num­ber of Frenchmen killed in a year in Algeria. 
Islamic extremists have 

claimed responsibility for most 
of the killings. There has been 
no claim of responsibility for 
the slaying of Rene Bouhanna, 
an Algerian-born Jew who 
held duel nationality. 
France expelled 20 suspect­

ed sympathizers of Algerian 
extremists to the impoverished 
West African nation of Burkina 
Faso on Wednesday. The ex­
pulsions bypassed the court 
system, prompting some hu­
man rights groups and opposi­
tion politicians to criticize the 
conservative government. 
ND vs. FSU 

Disneyland Package 4 Days, 3 Nights, 4 Tickets, 
Hotel, Air 
$10/R.affle Ticket 
Send Check to: 
ND Club of Austin 
1712 Amber Skyway 

Round Rock, Texas 78664 


-~-----------------------------~----~----.
--~-~------~----~---------~-----------~­
Friday,September 2, 1994 
Washington teens face tribal justice 
By BRIAN AKRE Associated Press 
KLAWOCK, Alaska 

A panel of Tlingit elders be­gan a hearing Thursday to de­cide whether two Indian teen­agers should be banished to uninhabited islands for severely beating and robbing a pizza de­livery man in Washington state last year. 
Cousins Adrian Guthrie and Simon Roberts, both 17, plead­ed guilty to robbery in May for attacking Tim Whittlesey of Everett, Wash., with a baseball bat. Whittlesey's hearing and eyesight were permanently damaged. 
Rather than sending the teens to prison, a Washington state judge agreed to send them north to face the Kuye'di Kuiu Kwaan Tribal Court. The youths could still get prison time later. 
Rudy James, a tribal elder who proposed the alternative at the behest of the youths' par­ents, says the punishment probably will be banishment for up to two years to separate, isolated islands in Alaska's vast Alexander Archipelago. The hearing in this southeast Alaska fishing village may last through Friday. 
The tribal elders held court in the Alaska Native Brotherhood­Alaska Native Sisterhood hall, a single-story building used for weddings, funerals, town meet­ings and bingo games. It was the first time the Klawock court was convened to determine a sentencing referred from a state court. 
No one was allowed into the hall until it had been ritually cleansed with branches of dev­il's club, a thorny plant native to the region. 
Everyone entering the room submitted to purification by having water poured on the palms and wiping their feet at the door. 
Guthrie and Roberts entered the room through an "entrance of shame," wearing their tribal regalia turned inside out. 
The case has opened up old family and tribal rivalries in this largely Tlingit village on Prince of Wales Island. 


cants are accepted. 
Although up to 3,000 political killings have taken place since soldiers overthrew Aristide in 1991, de facto Foreign Minister Charles David insisted Wednes­day that those accepted for U.S. asylum face no danger. 
Before Wednesday's depar­ture, 1,985 Haitians with U.S. approval for asylum had been waiting to leave, 1,084 of them with all necessary travel docu­ments, said Schrager, the U.S. spokesman. 
Schrager said he hoped three or four groups could be moved out every week. 
"We have established a precedent, so we believe that it can continue," he said, adding that reporters were not notified of Wednesday's departure be­forehand for fear of endanger­ing the venture. 
Also Thursday, the U.S. mili­tary said it was preparing a camp in Suriname to hold 2,500 Haitians being trans­ferred from Guantanamo Bay. 
The site will be 2 5 miles south of Paramaribo, capital of Suriname, a small nation on the northeast shoulder of South America, the U.S. Southern Command announced at its headquarters in Panama. 
And in Trinidad, the head of the U.N. monitoring mission that was thrown out of Haiti in July said the world is ready to step in to expel its military rulers and restore the elected government. 
Colin Granderson, a Trinida­dian diplomat, is returning to the Dominican Republic to lead a new U.N.-Organization of American States mission to Haiti after the coup leaders leave power. 
The United States is signing up troops from Trinidad, Ja­maica, Barbados and Belize for a multinational force that could invade Haiti if necessary. 

The University Club is now hiring: Dishwashers Servers Bussers Bartender 
Full & Part Time! Apply within 9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. on ND Avenue next door to CCE 

The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Haitians still seek safety 
By MICHAEL NORTON Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 
The military-installed gov­ernment has begun allowing Haitians granted U.S. political asylum to leave Haiti, the U.S. Embassy said Thursday. 
Ninety-one Haitians took two buses to the neighboring Do­minican Republic on Wednes­day and caught charter flights to the United States, embassy spokesman Stanley Schrager told The Associated Press. 
Nearly 2,000 Haitians with 
U.S. approval for political asy­lum, many of them key sup­porters of exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, were blocked from leaving when commercial air travel to Haiti was banned July 30. The ban was part of world sanctions aimed at forcing the army out of power. 
The de facto government had refused to allow the Haitians to leave by charter flights or other means since the ban. No reason was given for the government's turnabout. 
Human rights groups weakly applauded Wednesday's re­lease. 
"This is a small first step," Kenneth Roth, director of the private Human Rights Watch organization, told The Associ­ated Press. 
But he said it doesn't help "the vast majority of Haitians who face severe repression and are forced by the United States to choose between interminable detention in Guantanamo and a largely inaccessible in-country processing procedure." 
Roth was referring to the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where the Coast Guard has been sending all Haitians who fled by sea. Other Haitians who want to leave have to un­dergo a lengthy U.S. procedure in their country for asylum. Fewer than 5 percent of appli-
Morris Civic Auditorium October 10, 7:30pm Show 
Tickets available at the Morris Auditorium Box Office and all the usual outlets. Charge at 219-235-9190 or 1-800-537-6415 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW 


The Observer 
is now hiring 
Circulation Drivers 
This is a paid position which requires drivers to deliver papers between 11-2. Ifyou are interested in doing this any weekday please call Joe Riley at 631-5313 


page 10 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday,Seprember 2, 1994 
Gadhafi celebrates Muslims flee Serb terrrorism 
By HRVOJE HRANJSKI western Europe. ate a Serb-only state, and these 
25 years in power 
Associated Press The Croatian government, al­kind of movements are indica­
By MARIAM SAMI 
Associated Press 
TRIPOLI 

Moammar Gadhafi, watching a parade of hundreds of tanks rumble past, marked 25 years in power Thursday with slo­gans con­demning the United States and the U.N. sanctions against Libya. 
Gadhafi, dressed in a brown, short­sleeved uni­form, waved and clasped his hands above his head as soldiers from the Green Revolutionary Army chanted about his "Fatah" rev­olution, meaning the "opening" in Arabic. 
On Tripoli's main square, a banner announced "No to the (U.N.) embargo." State televi­sion has been broadcasting slo­gans such as "America cannot crush us" and "We'll live on bread and water if we must." 
On the eve of the anniver­sary, the television showed American, British and French flags being trampled at a rally attended by Gadhafi. 
Since seizing power in a bloodless coup on Sept. 1, 1969, Gadhafi has depicted himself as the defender of the Arab and Muslim world against domination by the West, partic­ularly the United States. 
Today, his greatest challenge seems to be the U.N. embargo imposed after two Libyan na­tionals were accused of in­volvement in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, which killed 270 people. 
Gadhafi did not speak at the parade, but was scheduled to give an address later Thursday. 
While the parade crowd cheered Gadhafi, some com­plained the U.N. ban on flights into and out of Libya were making life difficult. Merchants also offered little enthusiasm for celebrating 25 years of Gad­haft's rule. 
But some praised the 52­year-old leader. A woman who gave her name as Major Fatma and was lead-


Food Servers & Bartenders Must be over 21 , Flexible Hours Apply Anytime 
272--3672 
Cleveland Rd. across from UP Mall 
The Observer 
Advertising Department is Looking for an 
Advertising Account Executive 
Duties include account correspondence, office work, and creative campaigning. 
If interested please call Eric Lorge@ 631-6900 
ing a brigade of female military students in the parade said that Gadhafi had improved the lot of women. 
"Who could have imagined women parading in the streets in a basically bedouin society which has its traditions?" she asked. 
Omar Abdullah, a clerk at a privately owned company, said Gadhafi's government "has given me my apartment and the land on which to build it." 
Other spectators echoed the anti-Western slogans of the government. A woman in Is­lamic veil who refused to give her name said Thursday's pa­rade showed Libya could not be defeated by "the enemy." 
And who was the enemy? "Of course, America," she replied. 
Gadhafi has long been at odds with the United States, which has put Libya on its list of terrorist-sponsoring nations. In 1986, U.S. aircraft bombed Tripoli during a dispute over the extent of Libya's territorial waters. 
Thirty-seven people were killed, and Libya claimed Gad­hafi's 15-month-old adopted daughter was among them. 
At home, Gadhafi had advo­cated a sort of mystical social­ism embodied in his "Green Book." Some of this has been economically disastrous. One idea was that farm laborers could claim ownership of the land they worked, prompting some farmers to fire their workers and let their land go fallow. 
Over the years, Gadhafi has reportedly put down several coup attempts. and last October word leaked out of the isolated country of an uprising by sol­diers who were not getting paid. 
But Gadhafi seems to have a firm grip on his nation of 4 mil­lion people. Libya's oil wealth has helped his survival, though he is known to quickly put down any opposition. 
He is known for outrageous statements and gestures. At the time of the 1986 U.S. bombing, then-President Reagan called· Gadhafi "a barbarian but ... flaky." The state-run Libyan press responded by labeling the American president "Rambo Reagan." 
NOW 
HIRING 

KARLOVAC, Croatia 
Serbs are using terrorist tac­tics to drive Muslims from northern Bosnia, a U.N. official said Thursday, while another warned of rising tension among thousands of displaced Muslims camped in Croatia. 
More than 20,000 refugees fled nearly two weeks ago fol­lowing the defeat of their rene­gade Muslim leader by troops of the Muslim-led Bosnian gov­ernment. 
The United Nations is urging them to go home, but most still heed their leader, Fikret Abdic, who says they face persecution in Bosnia. 
Abdic told U.N. officials Wednesday that he had no con~ trol over the refugees, U.N. spokesman Paul Risley said, adding that U.N. officials did not believe him. 
"We think that Abdic's sol­diers and his associates, scat­tered among the refugees, have an effect on people's minds," Risley said in Karlovac, 30 miles south of Croatia's capital, Zagreb. 
Abdic, who ruled the Muslim­controlled northwestern corner of Bosnia known as the Bihac pocket, declared independence from the Bosnian government in Sarajevo last year. 
Following last month's defeat, his followers fled to a Serb-held part of Croatia. 
About 9,000 of them are squeezed into a narrow no man's land separating Serb­held territory from the gov­ernment-controlled part of Croatia at the Turanj crossing south of Karlovac. 
Another 16,000 refugees are at a makeshift camp at Batnoga, further south in Serb­held territory. 
The refugees are demanding safe passage via Croatia to 
Saturday September 3 
ready burdened with 400,000 refugees, has refused to accept them, and no other country has stepped forward. 
Risley said the Bosnian gov­ernment had promised an amnesty and six-month exemp­tion from military service for all of Abdic's soldiers who re­turned. 
The United Nations has re­ceived reports that some of Abdic's men in Croatia had weapons, and there is concern that hundreds of Abdic soldiers could re-arm with Serb backing and attempt an offensive against the Bihac pocket. 
In Sarajevo, Peter Kessler, a 
U.N. aid agency spokesman, condemned a Bosnian Serb campaign to purge thousands of non-Serbs from northern Bosnia. 
Kessler said 3,000 Muslims had been driven from their homes in Serb-held areas in August alone, and cited several rapes and robberies. 
"These kind of movements cannot happen without the full support of the Bosnian Serb authorities," Kessler said. "This is a kind of push to ere­tive of a state-ordained terror­ism." 
Leaders of a self-declared Serb state within Bosnia often blame ethnic purges on local officials whom they say they cannot control. 
Bosnian Muslims and Croats also have been accused of forced expulsions in Bosnia's 28-month war. But Serbs have been accused most of using ter­ror to drive non-Serbs from ter­ritory they seized. 
Their efforts appear to have intensified following the Bosnian Serbs' rejection of an international peace plan requiring Bosnian Serbs to give up about one-third of the 70 percent of the country they have taken. The remaining 51 percent would go to a Muslim­Croat federation. 
Also Thursday, a French heli­copter was hit by small-arms fire while approaching U.N. headquarters in Sarajevo. There were no injuries, but "restricted movement" was subsequently ordered for all 
U.N. helicopters. It was unclear which side did the shooting. 


Chri.s~ych 
-a:o hn.,ve a, IIa-ppy H:i.:r~h..d.ft;y! Uft;ll ft;~ 8~U 4:027 
7:30pm to 1 am 

7:30pm • Watch the ND v. Northwestern game on the big screen in The Huddle or the Gorch Games room. 
8 pm, 10 pm, • The hit movie Four Weddings and 12 am and aFuneral FREE in the Montgomery Theatre 9 pm -1 am • Free billiards in the Gorch Games Room 10 pm -11 pm • Free video games in the Gorch Games Room 
-----------·----~-----------------·--------·-------~-----­
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 2, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan ControUer ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to aU members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-BB39 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grurnpy.helios.nd.edu 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
don't feel insulted when he does (The Observer, Dear Editor: who thought you were an inferior think we can understand the argu­Aug 31 "NO reflects ethnic insensitivity with Irish There is a response needed for the race." He adds a quote of John ment I would have with Metress. We image"). opinion published Wednesday, Aug_ Lennon's: "If you had the luck of the as Americans enjoy making things 
First then, what is a leprechaun? A leprechaun 31, 1994. The article ("NO reflects Irish you would wish you were complicated and having large theo­is a small part of Irish folklore. It is a fairy tale ethnic insensitivity with Irish image") English instead." ries behind everything we do or say. intended in small part to frighten children, in was written by Seamus Metress, a The fact is the Irish people do not The problem with changing the lep­large part to entertain them, and overall to pro­Notre Dame graduate of 1955. wish they were English. The Irish rechaun is the thought process out­vide a fable. True, the image was stolen by racists, Metress claims that "the Leprechaun are a proud people with a rich cul­growth, which makes me question but it is appropriate for us to take the caricature is an inexcusable affront to their dig­ture_ The English, who have what is going to be offensive and lim­back. The most effective way to disarm a racist is nity." "Their" is in reference to "the destroyed countless cultures iting in the future? Will a Scottish to laugh in his face and go about your business. historically strong Irish American throughout the world, have not person be offended if someone wears And victory is to keep on laughing. connections of Notre Dame. Faculty, destroyed Ireland; and so I doubt plaid who is not Scottish? Or will the 
The essence of the luck of the Irish is to remain student body, and subway Alumni." that a leprechaun emblem from a French Americans decide to sue strong and happy in the face of adversity. It is the Metress apparently feels it is his school in America will hurt the Irish. McDonald's because of the fries? essence of the Irish-American history. My great­responsibility to tell all the readers In fact I would think that they are I should think we could use our grandfather came to America and built from New of The Observer what you should be not even offended by it since the Irish energies to stop killing our children York to California, bridges for the railroad. He left offended by. I am unaware if Prime Minister spoke at the com­in the inner cities or to fmd a way to brutal and ugly colonial racism and was met by Metress has been given this platform mencement ceremony for Notre stop the 50 million abortions even more racism. He worked, saved money, and from some higher authority, how­Dame last spring. throughout the world each year. As bought property. Then he sent to Ireland for a ever, he did express his anger If it is the Irish Americans who are Christian people, we strive to get wife. He started a family. He defeated the preju­against the leprechaun image as a offended, look to the University along with each other_ I ask you, dice of the times by proving how ridiculous it was, representation of Notre Dame as well which the leprechaun represents; a Metress, do we really have time to be not by crying how ugly it was. as Irish Americans. proud, Catholic community which angered about what offends us while 
This typical American immigrant story is the vic­Metress even felt it necessary to contains many Irish Americans. The people are starving. Let the students tory I will not see demeaned by someone else's question what the "luck of the Irish" University does not exclude students enjoy what you enjoyed, the Fighting petty anger. This is what the leprechaun means to is_ He writes "Foreign invasion and on the basis of race. In my lifetime I Irish. me: the little Irishman victorious. occupation, famine and disease, have only seen "Irish need not apply" 
STEVEN MALYNN forced emigration, and death and signs in history books_ MICHAEL HILL 
Graduate Student in Law destruction at the hands of invaders If we drop the Irish part and just HolyCross 
Off-Campus look at ourselves as Americans, I Sophomore 

• DOONESBURY 
MIK£, TH/'3 {I}MPR£HEN91Vt: 
H&AL-TH CARe 131~ YOU 
HAMM!3R/3V OUT15 ASTONI5H­
IN6! NOIAIONPeR ITRe­
C&!VW1!6TANT8/PAIW9AN 
7UPPORTIN80TH 
HOUGe~ 
~ 
IA£/1_, THANKS, 
5/R, 8lffI tVA<3 
RMUYONI.-Y A?TI/'K3AT YOUR 8a-f&§T... 

IT'5 NOT UKCI'P ~V& 
TO RCa!V/3 THeMWAL-OF 
F!<1:31:3aJM, OUR NATION'S J.I/6He5THONOR, MAI<ING M/3 THe YOUNGY:7T !<£­
C/PI&NT IN H/5TOI<Y. 
\ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• Quem: Of THE DAY 
'''IJhen we lose the 
Y Y right to be different, we lose the right to be free." 
-Charles Evans Hughes 


ACC~NT 
page 12 Friday, September 2, 1994 
Sesquicentennial quilts patch tradition, change 
Summer of '94 yields a medley of music 
By BECKY MAYERNIK Accent Writer 
Continuing with the theme "Honoring Tradition, Pioneering Change," Saint ~~~;ry's will hold their second quilt exhi­bition of the year-long sesquicentennial celebration. "Continuing Innovation: Contemporary American Quilt Art" will be held in the Moreau Galleries from September 2 through September 30, and will be showcasing the pieces of ten nationally recognized quilt artists. 
The artists featured are Elizabeth Busch, Ruth McDowell, Therese May, Rise Nagin, Elizabeth and Joyce Scott, James Acord, Susan Shie, Nancy Crow, and Miriam Schapiro. In addition to their artwork, Nancy Crow and Miriam Schapiro will be giving lectures that will take place on September 7 and 18. These lectures and the exhibits them­selves are free and open to the public. 
According to Julie Tourtillotte exhibi­tion curator, one reason for the ~xhibit is to expose the area to contemporary quilt art. 
"The artists that were chosen were done so because we wanted to showcase artists who had strong national and international recognition for their art­work," said Tourtillotte. "We also select­ed a group that showed the wide range and variety of the craft." 
People might be surprised when they
" . , . . · to The Observer 
see th~ wide v~~;riety and individuality of the qmlts on display. The quilters are 
Last P1cture Show by Elizabeth Busch 1s one of the quilts to be exhibited at Saint Mary's September 3 through September 30. 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
The summer of 1994 produced a vast array of great new sounds for fans of all types of music. 
Hip-hop flourished due to the strength of such MTV favorites as Warren G.'s "Regulate" and Coolio's "_Fantastic Voyage" as well as underground classics hke Ill Al Skratch's "Wherez My Homiez?" and Tha Mexakins "A Little Sumthin'." 
Rock raged on with the addition of Collective Soul and Candlebox to the mainstream, along with Fretblanket and Shootyz Groove not too far behind 
!~die faves such as Helmet, Velocity Girl, and. The Rolhn~ Band released wonderfully simpatico albums. And, m case you hadn't yet guessed, with the Elton John/Billy Joel tour, Pink Floyd tour, Lollapalooza, H.O.R.D.E., and a host of other major extravaganzas, the summer of 1994 was a very lucrative concert sea­son ever. 
In retrospect, I have put together a collection of what I call "four choice albums" that were released during the summer. 
• B-Tribe-FIESTA FATAL: With a sound that com­bines dark melodies, sensual lyrics. flamenco guitars, and modern-day techno beats, this album can best be described ~s the "Spanish Enigma." Saying that this group (their name stands for "The Barcelona Tribe of Soulsters") has a style that is melodramatic would be an understatement; plush, extended introductions explode into wildly outrageous dance grooves. 
The fact that they do sound very much like Enigma does not make their music original. It is, however extremely vibrant and causes me to wonder why n~ band h~s come up with this idea sooner. One possible reason 1s the fact that many Spaniards who have heard B-Tribe's music are undoubtedly infuriated with what ~h~y have don~ with traditional Spanish music. To put It m perspective: imagine a James Taylor/Bob Dylan duet durmg whtch the two legends sing on top of cheesy string lines and the James Brown/Clyde Stubblefield "Funky Drummer" beat. However, for those who can deal with the merging of the old and new styles, this is truly a rewarding listening experi­ence. 
On "Love, Tears, Heartaches, and Devotion " soulful picking on a guitar leads into Spanish Chant~ both of which suddenly give way to a dominating synthesizer. Cymbals surround the soundwave which builds up to the sampled "Paid in Full" beat probably better known for its appearance in EMF's monster hit of 1991 "Unbelievable." The result is a furious array of rhyth~, soundi~g as if it is coming from an eternally revolvmg washmg machine; several bridges through­Light~r Sh~de of Brown·~ Robert Gutterez and Bobby 

Ram1rez m1x R&B, funk and rap in their new album. 
out the song bring it to what could be the end, but it reverberates three times for one more spin cycle. 
B-Tribe remixes the title track three different times on the album, as if to wear their flair for the dramatic on thei_r sleeve. Regardless, the edit, reprise and megamix are str?ng tr~cks and all feature clever string arrangements, mfectwus rhythm, and strategically placed bits of chants, guitar, and hand claps. 
• Deee-Lite-DEWDROPS IN THE GARDEN: Those groovelistically funky warriors of the dance floor are back. Deee-Lite, one of the most well-known bands that is still underrated, has returned with an album so well-produced, they just might finally get the respect they deserve. Of course everybody knows "Groove is in the Heart," but how many people who call themselves dance music fans recognize the masterpieces "Who Was That?" or "I Had a Dream I Was Falling Through a Hole in the Ozone Layer" when they come on? 
DEWDROPS IN THE GARDEN is Deee-Lite's most daring and experimental album to date. With their slight persuasion, playful rhymes, and vivid imagery, they have created the soundtrack for a PG-13 version of Sesame Street. "The music connects us/The rubber protects us/And what the neighbors think just doesn't affect us," sings Lady Kier on the album's opening track, "Say Ahhh." 
"Somebody" epitomizes a perfect fusion of techno and funk rhythm. The beat bombards the speakers as s~on a~ the track ~egins and then calms a bit as Lady Kier hitS the opemng notes with desperate fervor. "I need someone to treat me right," she moans as a dol­lop of psychedelia is thrown imo the mix. 
• The Jesus and Mary Chain-STONED AND DETHRONED: Here is another band that has never gotten the respect they deserve. After having done for the UK modern rock scene what Sonic Youth did for the US, the Jes~s ~nd ~ary Chain has managed to slip through the rmd-eighttes and into the nineties with a small but rabid group of awestruck fans. From the noiseflux of 1985's "Just Like Honey," to the alterna­~ive classic "Head 0~" of 1989, and with 1992's superb 
Far Gone a~d Out, The Jesus and Mary Chain have always been mnovators; their tracks require so much thought t? sift through the muddle of soundsludge that to really hsten to them demands total concentration. 
That's where STONED AND DETHRONED comes in. "¥ter the first couple times through it seems like the lightest Jesus and Mary Chain album to date, but beware.. Belo'Y the surface lurks deep bass and folksy percussiOn which actually proves the Reid brothers at t~eir most mature. The pre-release reports of a kmder, gentler Jesus and Mary Chain are, for the most part, untrue. Of course, it would have been almost impossible to take on 1992's almost sinful HONEY'S DEAD which featured lyrics such as "I wanna die just like JFK/1 wanna die on a sunny day." 
The first and best track on STONED AND DETHRONED is "Dirty Water." Its protruding bass helps as an introduction to the "new" Jesus and Mary Chain sound, even though they have had an album that was stripped-down before (see DARKLANDS, circa 1987). "I've been swimming in the dirty water/I've been swimming where the fish won't go," William Reid hums. 
• A Lighter Shade of Brown-LAYIN' IN THE CUT: Almost quietly, this West Coast Chicano hip-hop duo ~roke onto the sc~ne in 1990 with their single, 
Sunday Afternoon. Although released on an indie label, the single gave way to the album BROWN AND PROUD, which eventually sold 250,000 copies. In 1993, they released the album HIP HOP LOCOS which gave way to the hit single, "Homies." 
.Now in '94, LAYIN' IN THE SHADE is an amazing mn~ture of R&B, rap, funk, and a very positive vibe; their rhyming style is heavily influenced by the old school. 
"v:'e call our. music verse-a-style," says Robert Guttlerez, who IS half the group along with Bobby Ramirez. "There's no limit to what we can deal with or the number of different styles we can play." 
"Playin' in the Shade," the best track on the album begi_ns with a funky string arrangement and leads into a thick bass groove; meanwhile, the chorus shows how well Lighter Shade of Brown prepares their vocals. 
working with more formal techniques than the traditional pattern blocks. "The artists now use a wide range of materials for their work, and they also take more liberty with it", according to Tourtillotte. The list ~f materi.als used in the making of the qmlts now mcludes wood, plastics, metals, painting, printmaking, and pho­tographic processes. 
"This exhibition reinforces the theme 'Honoring Tradition, Pioneering Change' and the theme of the quilt as symbolic of how women's roles have changed throughout history," according to Patti Valentine, Saint Mary's public relations director. . The theme of the sesquicentennial mfluenced the choices of the quilts on ~isplay. Unlike the previous quilt exhibi­tiOn that was held earlier in the sesqui­centennial year, these exhibits are much more contemporary, and the show sym­bolizes a pointing to the future, accord­ing to Valentine. 
"quilting was once the only artform available to women. but they continue the tradition of being innovative," Tourtillotte explained. "Although the quilters no longer have to search for materials with which to make the quilts, they can now work with the form much more liberally." 
"W~e!her presenting personal feelings or politics, geometric abstraction or com­plex, narrative imagery, the quilts in this exhibition attest to the significance and vitality of this artform," Tourtillotte said. 
For more information about the exhibi­tion, call 219-284-4655. 
~-~---------~.....--------------­
e 's a phantom phenom, 
1 · a spectral superstar 
stirring the spirits o 
, historic heroes. 
Before his first college snap, Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus already haunts oppo­nents, hovering like a modern­day mixture of Joe Montana and Rick Mirer. 
A year of inactivity because of a broken collarbone seemed only to augment his legend. 
Infallible in the imaginations Irish fans, Powlus gets his first ~ ·· public opportunity to prove he's human in his delayed college debut Saturday against Northwestern. 
Nothing he does on the field can match the image that has grown over the past 12 months. 
But if reality even remotely approaches the rumors, he'll do ·ust fine. 
Even head coach Lou Holtz, who would rather begin a season 
GAME DAY DEFENSE ON DISPLAY 
A look at how the teams match up for New defensive coordinator Bob Davie Saturday's season opener. prepares for his public debut. see pages 4-5 see page 7 
Friday, September 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
----------.. 
WILDCATS N 
• "  •  
Opp  NU  Singleton  7  0  7  Bennett  70  46  116  0.0  
First Downs  220  215  PASSING  Rating  Comp Att  Pet  Yds  TO  lnt  Ostrowski  2  0  2  Williams  69  41  110  2.0  
by rushing  118  84  Williams  115.3  182 316  57.6  2047  11  13  Shine  2  0  2  Shine  56  18  74  17.0  
by passing  92  110  Schnur  99.7  20  43  46.5  289 2  4  Martin  0  0  0  Singleton  42  27  69  5.0  
by penally  10  21  Martin  41  27  68  2.0  
yardage  4125  3427  Hellebusch  33  28  61  2.5  
Offensive plays  751  795  RECEIVING  No  Yds  Avg  TO Long  PUNTING  No  Avg  Long  Ray  31  22  53  0.0  
Avg. yards per play  5.5  4.3  Gissendaner  58  669 11.5  5  37  Burton  57  40.1  57  Shein  24  3  27  4.0  
Total yards per game  375.0  311.5  Senters  27  364 13.5  2  44  Koziel  8  16  24  2.0  
Rushing yards  1983  1065  Gamble  25  304 12.2  1  22  Walker  10  13  23  3.0  
Rushing plays  499  433  Morris  24  269 11.2  1  29  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Long  Sutter  12  10  22  5.0  
Rushing yards per game  180.3  96.8  Lundy  23  166  7.2  1  27  Gissendaner  16  13.9  0  34  Warren  17  5  22  5.0  
Passing yards  2142  2362  Wright  15  152 10.1  1  27  Purkett  11  9  20  1.5  
Passes completed  153  362  Graham  14  161 11.5  0  31  Reiff  6  9  15  1.0  
Passes attempted  252  203  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TD  Long  Scharf  11  2  13  1.0  
Passes intercapted  7  17  Senters  2  22.5  0  28  Rice  4  7  11  1.0  
Passing yards per game  194.7  214.7  PAT  PAT  Gissendaner  17  21.7  0  43  Curry  5  4  9  0.0  
Fumbles I fumbles lost  17111  2618  SCORING  TD  X2  X1  FG  Sal  Pts  Scott  24  21.6  0  86  Ruddy  4  2  6  0.0  
Penalties I penally yards  621507  521491  Valenzisi  0  0  16-17  11  0  49  Brown  2  3  5  0.0  
3rd down conversions  75-149  68-177  Lundy  7  1  0-0  0  0  44  Winfield  3  2  5  0.0  
percentage  50.3  38.4  Gissendaner  5  0  0-0  0  0  30  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  Bart  11  2  4  1.0  
down conversions  3-6  9-20  Williams  3  0  0-0  0  0  18  Gissendaner  0  669  592  1261  114.7  Usa  5  7  11  1.0  
percentage  50.0  45.0  Beazley  2  0  o-o  0  0  12  Lundy  617  166  0  783  97.8  Homer  5  4  0  0.0  
Senters  2  0  0-0  0  0  12  Scott  0  0  518  518  51.8  Maggie  4  2  6  0.0  
Senters  10  364  45  419  46.6  Marge  2  8  1  0.0  
Yds  Lg  Gamble  25  304  0  329  29.9  Smithers  3  2  0  0.0  
617  14  FIELD GOALS  17-39  40-49  50+ Long  Glanton  159  23  0  182  26.0  Principal Skinner  7  2  0  1.0  
Vatenzisi  8-14  3-4  0-0  41  Morris  0  269  0  269  24.5  Willie  4  2  11  1.0  
Leahy  0-0  0-0  0-1  0  Beazley  0  211  0  211  19.2  Moleman  5  4  9  0.0  
Krabaple  0  2  6  0.0  
INTERCEPTIONS  No  Yds  TO  Long  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  TL  Milhouse  2  3  0  0.0  
Ray  3  15  0  10  Ostrowski  78  39  117  4.0  

• •  •  THE STRATEGIST ... .,  
No.Name Pos. 1 Chris Gamble WR  Hl 6-0  Wt. YR. 181 SR  GARY BARNETT  NORTHWESTERN  
2 Lentwan Smith s  5-11  190 so  
3 Hudhana lsmaeli CB 4 B. J. Winfield CB 5 Dwight Brown CB  6-0 6-0 6-0  196 so 174 so 180 SR  Third season at Northwestern  Sept. 3 NOTRE DAME  7:00  
6 Tim Hughes QB Mike Senters WR  6-2 6-1  215 so 180 SR  Career Record at NU: 5-17  
Glenn Winship WR Lloyd Abramson QB  6-0 6-3  184 JR 218 FR  Against Notre Dame: 0-2  
Steve Schnur QB D'Wayne Bates QB  6-1 6-3  190 JR 205 FR  Highlights: Won three Big Ten games in  
Brian Gowins K Paul Burton p  5-9 6-0  160 FR 190 JR  1992, the first time a Wildcat team won  
Rodney Ray CB Chris Martin CB  5-11 5-9  190 SR 185 JR  that many since 1973.  
Chris Hamdorf QB  6-3  190 so  
Toussaint Water WR  6-2  202 so  
Chuck Robinson RB  5-B  175 SR  Nov. 19 at Penn State  12:00  
William Bannett s  6-0  200 JR  
Fred Wilkerson DB  6-2  190 FR  
Brian Musso WR  6-1  191 so  
Darnell Autry RB  6-1  205 FR  
Jeff Swenson DB  5-11  180 FR  
Mike Nelson, Jr. WR  6-2  190 FR  
Sam Vatenzisi K  5-7  167 SR  
Doug Macleod WRIK  5-11  195 FR  
Chris Rooney CB  5-B  186 JR  
Matt Stewart s  5-11  190 so  
Marcal Prica DB Adrian Autry RB  6-1 5-11  190 FR 190 FR  SOLDIER FIELD  
Eric Collier s  6-2  215 so  
Dennis Lundy RB  5-9  190 SR  
Hugh Williams LB Casey Dailey LB Faraji Leary RB  6-0 6-5 6-1  248 SR 238 so 201 FR  Capacity 66,950  
Korey Singleton s Jason Banis p Chad Ully RB  6-1 6-5 6-1  208 SR 197 FR 204 SR  Largest Crowd 120,000  
Matt Henkelmann WR Bobby Jackson RB  6-2 6-2  177 FR 238 SR  Surface Natural Grass  
Mark Spencar CB  5-9  187 JR  
Keith Lozowski LB Mike McGrew LB  6-3 6-0  244 so 211 JR  ND at Soldier Field 7-0-2  
Matt Hartl RB  6-3  225 FR  
Geoff Shein LB  6-2  233 SR  
Eugene Allen DB  5-10  193 FR  
Shannon Jones K  5-8  194 FR  
Danny Sutter LB  6-2  226 FR  
Pat Fitzgerald LB  6-4  230 so  
Tim Scharf LB  6-2  220 so  
Don Holmes LB  5-11  238 FR  
Stet Potter OL  6-3  270 FR  
Brian Zeeb LB  6-2  227 SR  
Jason Walker LB  6-3  225 so  
Rob Johnson c  6-2  272 SR  
Bill Koziel NG  6-1  270 SR  
Jason Ross LB  6-1  227 FR  
Jason Wendland OT  6-4  290 JR  
61 Justen Chabot OT  6-6  272 JR  
62 Adam Reed c  6-3  260 FR  
63 Nathan Strikwerda c  6-3  277 so  
63 Apu c  6-3  277 so  
64 Brian Harpring DL  6-3  267 SR  
65 Todd Pawlowski OG  6-5  279 SR  
66 Graham Gnos OL  6-3  281 JR  
67 Barry Gardner LB  5-11  232 FR  
67 Andy Ricker LB  5-11  232 SR  
68 Mike Warren LB  6-4  246 SR  
69 Chris Leeder OL  6-4  288 FR  
70 Matt O'Dwyer OG  6-5  309 SR  
71 Bobby Kannady OT  6-6  248 SR  
72 Kevin Peterson OT  6-4  276 JR  
73 Mark T omkeil OT  6-6  295 FR  
74 Paul Janis OT  6-5  275 so  
75 Ryan Padgett OG  6-3  292 JR  
76 Todd Baczek OT  6-3  303 SR  
77 Chad Pugh OG  6-3  280 JR  
78 Brian Kardos OT  6-5  287 JR  
79 Bryan LaBelle OT  6-6  294 FR  
79 Junior Paez QB  6-6  120 FR  
80 John Burden WR  6-4  193 FR  
81 Jon Bums TE  6-5  238 so  
83 Darren Drexler TE  6-5  250 JR  
84 Shane Graham TE  6-6  260 JR  
85 Jarry Guess WR  6-3  185 so  
86 Dave Beazley WR  5-10  185 JR  
87 Luther Morris RB  6-4  235 SR  
88 KeJaun DuBose DT  6-3  265 so  
89 Larry Curry DT  6-4  269 JR  
90 Thor Schmidt LB  6-3  230 FR  
91 Nick Walker NG  5-10  269 SR  
92 Mike Giometti LB  6-3  237 JR  
93 Luis Oropeza LB  6-1  226 so  
94 Joe Reiff DT  6-4  264 JR  
95 DT  6-3  264 so  
96 DT  6-4  265 so  
96 OL  297 FR  
97 TE  220 FR  
98 DL  265 FR  
99 DT  250 SR  




FIGHTING IRISH 

• " 

Kinder 48.8 89 537 6.0 2 70 Miller 3 0 o-o 0 0 18 2 3 4 Tot Farmer 18.7 31 168 5.4 3 23 Dawson 2 0 o-o 0 0 12 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg 113 101 111 403 Edwards 16.9 40 186 4.7 8 27 Kinder 2 0 o-o 0 0 12 Becton 1044 153 0 1197 119. 58 37 59 194 Clark 12.3 23 74 3.2 1 9 Mayes 2 0 o-o 0 0 12 Zellars 494 109 0 639 63.9 
McDougal 8.5 55 85 1.5 4 43 Miller 0 412 278 690 62.7 ND Opp Burris 8.4 16 92 5.8 6 44 FIELD GOALS 17-39 4o-49 50+ Long C. Johnson 0 141 409 550 50.0 First Downs 239 203 Lytle 5.7 16 63 3.9 0 16 Pendergast 11-14 3-5 0-0 47 Kinder 537 0 0 537 48.8 by rushing 154 65 Failla 5.5 18 55 3.1 0 tO Mayes 7 512 0 519 47.2 by passing 77 123 Dawson 4 395 0 399 36.3 by penalty 8 15 PASSING Rating Comp Att Pet Yda TD INTERCEPTIONS No Yds TD Long Farmer 168 8 0 176 19.6 
Total yardage 4725 3487 McDougal 151.3 98 159 61.61541 7 B. Taylor 4 100 1 47 Edwards 186 0 22 208 18.9 Offensive plays 746 753 Failla 210.0 19 25 76.0 281 3 Burris 3 61 0 43 Burris 92 0 88 180 16.4 Avg. yards per play 6.33 4.63 Covington 2 7 0 7 McDougal 65 0 0 85 8.5 Total yards per game 429.5 317.0 RECEIVING No Yds Avg TD Long Lane 1 29 0 29 Lytle 63 0 0 63 5.7 i yards 2868 985 Dawson 25 395 15.8 2 44 Bereich 1 21 1 21 Failla 55 0 0 55 5.5 Rushing plays 561 331 Mayes 24 512 21.3 2 80 Wooden 1 0 0 0 Rushing yards per game 260.7 89.5 Miller 19 412 21.7 2 66 DEFENSE T A Tot FR PBU TL Sac yards 1857 2502 Zellars 14 109 7.8 3 39 PUNTING No Avg Long Goheen 61 31 92 0 3 3.0 0.5 Passes completed 118 263 Becton 12 153 12.7 1 35 Leonard 18 39.9 55 Bereich 39 32 71 2 2 4.0 1.0 Passes attempted 185 422 C. Johnson 10 141 14.1 0 43 Ford 7 37.4 44 Young 44 23 67 1 1 7.0 6.5 Passes intercepted 5 12 McBride 5 36 7.2 0 12 Jarrell 12 33.2 58 Lane 47 11 58 0 8 2.5 0.0 Passing yards per game 168.8 227.5 Chryplewicz 3 34 11.3 0 18 Covington 43 15 58 1 4 0.0 0.0 I fumbles lost 1015 16110 PUNT RETURNS No Avg TD Long Burris 36 17 53 0 6 0.0 2.0 I penalty yards 641539 711599 PAT PAT Miller 26 8.2 1 56 B. Taylor 45 6 51 1 9 2.0 1.0 down conversions 60-134 65-164 SCORING TD X2 X1 FG Sal Pta Burris 60.0 1 60 Flanigan 33 18 51 1 2 4.0 4.0 percentage 44.8 39.6 Pendergast 0 0 45-48 14 0 87 Lane 17.0 0 17 Magee 33 9 42 0 4 0.0 0.0 down conversions 11-17 11-17 Edwards 8 0 0·0 0 0 48 Haminon 23 19 42 3 0 4.0 4.0 percentage 64.7 667 Zellars 8 0 0·0 0 48 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TD Long Gibson 24 10 34 0 0 3.5 0.5 Becton 7 0 0·0 0 42 C. Johnson 10 40.9 1 100 Knight 13 13 26 0 4 5.0 2.0 7 0 0-0 0 42 Miller 4 16.3 0 20 Berry 19 6 25 0 0 1.0 0.0 4 1 0·0 0 26 Zellars 3 12.0 0 19 Sample 17 2 19 0 0 3.0 0.0 3 0 0·0 0 18 Wynn 15 4 19 0 0 1.5 3.0 
LOU HOLTZ 
No.Name Pos. HL WL YR Derrick Mayes WR 205
1 6-1 JR 2 LaShane Saddler s 5·11 196 SR 2 Dan Farrell WR s-o 166 SR 3 Rob Powlus QB 6-4 218 so 4 Lee Becton RB s-o 191 SR
Ninth season at Notre Dame. 
5 Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 179 so 6 Mike Miller WR 5-7 160 SR
Career Record at ND: 77-19-1 
7 Laon Blunt QB 5·9 173 FR 8 Ivory Covington DB 5-11 160 FR
Against Northwestern: 2-0 
9 LaRon Moore CB 5·9 193 SR 10 Mike Perona QB 6-1 186 so
Highlights: Won the 1988 national 
10 Larry Wright ATH 5-11 190 FR 11 Tom Krug QB 6-5 199 so
championship and finished No.2 in both 
12 Gus Ornstein QB 6-5 210 FR 12 Scott Cengia K 5-9 167 FR
1989 and 1993. p
13 Brian Ford 6-4 193 so 14 John Bishop CB s-o 171 so 15 Paul Rogers QB 6-1 204 so 15 Allen Rossum DB 5-9 175 FR 16 Brian Perry s 6-1 197 so 16 Marl< McKenna QB 5-10 188 so 17 Brian Magee s 5-10 201 JR 19 Anthony Swiney CB 5-11 180 so 20 Malcom Johnson WR 6-5 193 FR 21 Bobby Taylor CB 6-3 201 JR 22 Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 163 SR 24 Charles Stafford WR 5-10 163 SR
LAST TIME RECORDS 
25 Randy Kinder RB 6-1 200 so 26 Marl<Monohan s 6-0 178 JR 27 Tracy Graham CB 5·10 190 SR 28 Ken Barry RB 6-1 195 FR
Notre Dame 27 ND leads 36-7-2 
29 Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 SR 30 Jarvis Edison DB 6-5 210 FR
Northwestern 12 Last ND win 27-12, 1993 
31 Robert Farmer RB 6-1 210 so 32 Clement Stokes RB s-o 200 FRLast NU win 35-6, 1962 33 John Mclaughlin DB 6-4 225 FR 34 Ray Zellars RB 5·11 221 SR
Trailing 12-7 early in the Streak: Notre Dame has 35 Richard Rolle WR 6-1 159 FR 36 Jeremy Sample LB 5·11 223 SR
second half, Notre Dame won 13 straight against 
37 Travis Davis s 6·0 197 SR 38 Sim Stokes CB 6·2 191 so
scored the final 20 points Northwestern. 
39 Kinnon Tatum LB 6·1 209 so 40 Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 227 JR
to survive the season At Soldier Field Notre Joe Babey LB 225 JR
41 6-2 42 Alton Maiden LB 6-4 248 SR
opening scare. Dame is 2-0-1 against 
43 BiiiWagasy LB 6-2 228 JR 44 Marc Edwards RB 6-2 221 so
Northwestern. 
Jeff Kilburg DE 258
45 6-4 so 47 Bill M~oulas LB 6-0 210 FR 48 Renaldo Wynn LB 6·3 254 JR 49 Lyron Cobbins LB 6-2 230 so 50 GregStec c 6·2 265 SA Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 245 so Germaine Holden DE 6-4 252 SR Jim Kordas OG 6·5 269 SR Justin Goheen LB 6-2 228 SR Oliver Gibson NG 6·3 275 SR Steve Armbruster c s-o 220 SR Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 251 so Jeremy Nau LB 6-4 226 SR Jon Bergman LB 6-1 220 SR Berl Berry LB 6-4 221 so Jeff Kramer LB 6·3 215 FR Mike McCullough OG 6-3 295 JR Mike O'Donovan LB 6·2 210 SR Steve Misetic OG 6-5 280 JR Brett Galley LB 5·9 188 so Kurt Belisle LB 6-3 220 FR Marl< Zataveski c 6-6 300 SR Paul Mickelbart OL 6-4 265 FR David Quist OT 6·5 264 JR Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 SR Herb Gibson OT 6-5 309 SR Ryan Leahy OG 6-4 285 SR Mike Doughty OT 6-8 280 so Will Lyell c 6·5 274 JR Chris Clevenger OT 6-7 250 so Jeremy Akers OT 6·5 286 SR Dusty Zeigler OG 6-6 264 JR Jon Spickelmier OL 6-4 250 FR Damian Peter OL 6·7 295 FR Oscar McBride TE 6·5 258 SR John Lynch WR 6·2 188 JR Joe Carrol WR 5-10 182 SR Mike Denvir TE 6-3 231 so Dan McConnell WR 5-10 178 JR Ben Herrig WR 5·10 168 JR Ben Foos DE 6-4 244 JR Cikai Champion WR 5·11 176 so Laon Wallace TE 6·3 275 JR Ty Goode WR 6-1 173 FR Brian Hamilton DE 6-3 276 SR Darnell Sm~h DE 6·5 265 so Luke Pemgout TE 6-7 260 FR Paul Grasmanis NG 6·3 JR Reggie Fleurima NG 6-3 SR Corey Bennett LB 6-2 FR Stefan Schroffner K 5·9 SR Corey Redder LB 6·2 FR Pete Chryplewicz TE 6-5 JR Cliff Stroud DE 6·3 JR 
Friday, September 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page4 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 
Defense a big plus for Wildcats 


Photo courtesy of Northwestern University Linebacker Hugh Williams will have to be a big play maker for the Northwestern defense this season. 
PLAYER TO WATCH...... WilliAM BENNETT 

By MIKE NORBUT throughout the game. Their Associate Sports Editor tenacious man-to-man cover­age could allow the rest of the 
Last year, Northwestern's 
unit to concentrate more on 
defense was ranked 54th in 
the Irish running attack. 
the nation in total defense 
Notre Dame's running
after placing 104th in 1992. 
backs are the only proven ele­
They jumped 50 places in 
ment to the relatively inexpe­
one year. 

rienced offense. Holtz will 
If they pull off this dramatic 
look for big performances
feat again this year, the 
from seniors Lee Becton and 
Wildcats will have the 4th 
Ray Zellars along with sopho­
best defense in the nation. 
mores Randy Kinder, Marc 
Realistically, that type of 
Edwards, and Robert Farmer. 
stifling defense should be able 
"Lee Becton is a very
to carry a team to a top ten 
underestimated back," the 
finish. Add to that the fact 
coach said. "Ray Zellars has 
that the Wildcats have eight 
been a very pleasant surprise. 
starters returning on defense. 
He's a tremendous leader and 
Now subtract the fact that 
a great practice player." 
they open the season against 
The biggest questions yet to 
Notre Dame, one of the 
be answered for the Irish are 
nation's explosive teams. 
on the offensive line. 

This new math concept can 
"The disruption of the 
get pretty tricky. 

offensive line is a big ques­
"The difference between 6­
tion," Holtz said. He has seen 
5 and 2-9 last year was about 
a change in the starting line­
five plays," Wildcats head 
up at every position ever 
coach Gary Barnett said. 
since camp began three 
"But the good teams make 
weeks ago. 

those plays, and we didn't. 
How well this new line and 
We'll know that we've turned 
quarterback Ron Powlus deal 
the corner when we make 
with the pressure of the 
those plays." 

defensive line will determine 
Northwestern's defense 
the outcome of the game. 
kept them in many games last 
"Our main focus in prepar­
season, as they lost four 
ing for this year will be 
games by just 15 points. 
putting more pressure on the 
Against the Irish last year, 
quarterback," Barnett said. 
the Wildcats held a 12-7 lead 
"Our line has got to apply
into the third quarter, and 
pressure to make our sec­
held Notre Dame to only one 
ondary effective." 

first down before halftime. 
Without strong play up
And who knows if they can 
front from tackles Joe Reiff 
rise to the occassion again. 
and Larry Curry along with 
"We're not sure what will 
nose guards Bill Koziel and 
happen," Irish coach Lou 
Nick Walker, the 
Holtz said. "It scares me to 
Northwestern linebacking
death." 

corps could be in for a long
With all that returning 
day.

experience, the Wildcat 
The Wildcats will look to 
defense has vastly improved. 
middle linebacker Hugh
Their strengths clearly lie in 
Williams to make the big
the secondary, with senior 
plays that could keep them in 
captain Korey Singleton and 
the game. 

junior William Bennett at the 
"Hugh showed us this 
two safety positions. 

spring that he's ready to lead 
They will be joined by 
this defense," Barnett added. 
Rodney Ray and Chris Martin 
Ready to lead them to victo­
at the two cornerbacks, who 
ry, or ready to lead them into 
will hope to shadow Notre 
the eye of a hurricane? 
Dame receivers Derrick 
Mathematicians around the 
Mayes and Mike Miller 
world are waiting to find out. 


The student slithers  hard-nosed, solid play­ 
into the enemy  sec­ er."  
ondary.  An All-America and  
Suddenly, he feels  a  All-Big Ten candidate,  
pair of eyes burning  Bennett was second on  
through the back of his  the  team  in  tackles  
skull.  with 116, including a  
He's been spotted.  career high 18 in the  
He must try to evade.  Bennett  Wildcats' first win o  
Too late. The Dean is  the year last year, a  

hot on his tail. He immediately 22-21 upset of Boston College. reprimands the student by Just think if he was not play­ramming his helmet and shoul­ing. No touchdown-saving der pads into the boy's little tackles. No intimidation. body and slamming him into Despite his obvious tenacity the turf. with run support, he has 
That seems to be quite a recorded only one interception penalty for trying to catch a in his first two seasons. pass. He did have five passes 
But it's also an advantage to defended on the year, but in have this kind of authoritative order to bring his game and the figure in your secondary. team's respectability to another 
That's why Northwestern level, he will need to become a calls William Bennett "The genuine pass-intercepting Dean," a junior who has start­threat in the secondary. ed the past 20 games at free As if knocking them senseless safety. was not enough to make him 
"Without question, our sec­highly recognized. ondary stabilizes our defense," But what else would you ex­Northwestern head coach Gary pect from a Dean? Barnett said. "William Bennett is ready to take his game to an­
-MIKENORBU
other level; he is an intense, 
• RAliNG THE IRISH 

QUARTERBACK-4 Ron Powlus makes his much-anticipated debut amid many questions. An extra point for how he's handled the hype. 
RUNNING BACK-S Notre Dame's strongest unit. Becton, Kinder, Farmer, Zellars and Edwards will carry a big load. 
WIDE RECEIVER-3 Big dropoff after Derrick Mayes. Mike Miller is too streaky. 
OFFENSIVE LINE-3 Inexperience, but intense. Preseason shuffling provided more questions than answers. 
DEFENSIVE LINE-4 A wealth of experience, but not as swift as Holtz would like. 
LINEBACKERS-3 Blue-collar players Goheen and Sample will capably fill the spot, but are they talented enough? 
SECONDARY-4 Bobby Taylor can fill a lot of holes, but the Irish may have a few too many. 
SPECIAL TEAMS-2 No established placekicker or punter and average kick returners by Notre Dame's standards. 
COACHING-5 Holtz has been known to work miracles. Less than two loss­es this season would be another. 
OVERALL-33 No matter how inexperienced, the Irish will overcome the outclassed Wildcats. 
page 5 
Dame must neutralize 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 2, 1994 
ILDCATS ON THE OFFENSIVE. 

New look offense for Northwestern 
By TIM SHERMAN linebackers are deep and tal­Assistant Sports Editor ented. ''I'm anxious to see our line­
For the past three years, backers," Holtz said. "They Northwestern coach Gary are not the dominating play­Barnett had three constants ers like we've had before but entering the season. they are ready to play." 
•A 
game-tested leader at On the inside, Justin Goheen quarterback in Len Williams. and Jeremy Sample offer solid 

•The 
explosive and talented run support while on the out­receiver Lee Gissendaner. side, Bert Berry and Renaldo 

•An 
inexperienced, under­Wynn provide speed and the sized, and for the most part, ability to disrupt plays in the ineffective offensive line. backfield. 


Williams and Gissendaner In addition, they will be have departed. Barnett has counted on to drop back into reason to believe that so too pass coverage. have his offensive line woes. They may be tested early, as 
All five starting linemen, led Northwestern has installed a by Outland trophy candidate two-back set and will use a Matt O'Dwyer, return. tight end more than in recent 
Considering the new compo­years. sition of most of the Junior college transfer Tim Northwestern offense, it is Hughes will be responsible for likely that new Irish defensive the ball there. coordinator Bob Davie's "He's a winner,"said Holtz. defensive attack will face a "Their quarterback position revamped style with the may even be better this year." emphasis now on a running Hughes' receivers look to be 
attack, spearheaded by senior a capable group, especially tailback Dennis Lundy, who senior Michael Senters, who scored two toucdowns at has clicked well with Hughes 
Notre Dame last season. in camp. 
While Lundy has given the In all liklihood, 1993 All­Irish problems in the past, American Bobby Taylor will keeping the ball on the shadow Senters. ground may actually be play­After that, the Irish sec­ing to the strength of the Irish ondary is a little bit more defense, as the front seven suspect. Shawn Wooden, boast the majority of the back from an injured knee, defense's experience. has won the other cornerback 
Seniors Brian Hamilton, slot, while Brian Magee and Oliver Gibson, and Germaine Travis Davis have solidified Holden not only know what to safety spots. expect, they have strength to ''I'm very concerned about do something about it. our secondary," said Holtz. 
"This group is extremely "How much we do up front strong," said Irish head coach will depend on them. " Lou Holtz. "They are not as If Northwestern comes out quick but I've been pleased in the four wideout and other with them." motion-oriented sets that it 
With this in mind, Barnett showed frequently last sea­moved his most reliable line­son, the inexperience may man, O'Dwyer, from tackle to show. tight guard. Still, Holtz does see poten­
"The dominant defensive tial. linemen we face have been on "How confident we are in the interior." observed the secondary will be impor­Barnett. "Therefore, we felt tant," noted Holtz. "They can we had to shore up our interi­be a productive group." or line. Matt can do that for That is pretty much the us." theme for the entire defense. 
Despite key losses, the Irish 

QUARTERBACK-2 
Junior college transfer Tim Hughes won a tour-man race for the starting job, likely his last win for a while. 
RUNNING BACK-3 
Dennis Lundy scored twice against the Irish last year, but he doesn't have enough support. 
WIDE RECEIVER-3 
Mike Senters and Chris Gamble are veterans, but with nobody to get them the ball, they won't be a big factor. 
OFFENSIVE LINE-4 
An experienced line led by Outland Trophy candidate Matt O'Dwyer. Looks impressive. 
DEFENSIVE LINE-2 
Too small to handle the bulky Irish offensive line. 

He runs. He blocks. Playing behind a vet­
He catches. eran offensive line, the He's a Triple Lundy. ball will be in Lundy's He has led his team capable hands a lot 
in rushing for the past more often this season, three years, played his and that's fine with best games against the him. toughest opponents, Last season's game and is on a pace to against the Irish saw become his school's all­the Tampa native cross time leading rusher. the goal line twice, once on an 
Yet he still does not get the 11 yard run and later on a five respect he deserves. yard reception. 
Ask Dennis Lundy himself to It is here, as a receiver out o summarize his career, and he the backfield, that Lundy will would probably include the pose the biggest threat to Notre word disappointment. Dame. 
Disappointed with his numer­In addition to his touchdown ous injuries, and, more im­grab, Lundy hauled in six more portantly, diappointed with the passes for 55 yards against the fact that he has been in the Irish. winning locker room just eight The 5-foot-9, 180 pound all times in his college career. Big Ten candidate runs low to 
Stated simply, the man is sick the ground, taking full ad­of losing. vantge of his low center o 
Although he has had a pro­gravity, resembling former ductive career, he has been Irish back Reggie Brooks. mired in the shadows of Len Now, if he can only get the Williams and Lee Gissendaner. support like Brooks had, that With those two gone, Lundy disappointment may turn to will now have the chance to satisfaction. take things into own hands. 
-TIMSHE
Literally. 

• RATING THE WILDCATS 
LINEBACKER5-2 
Two mainstays are gone now, too much youth remains. Fifth-year senior Hugh Williams can't handle it all by himself. 
SECONDARY-4 
Probably the Wildcats' strongest unit, led by junior William Bennett and senior captain Korey Singleton. 
SPECIAL TEAMS-3 
A strong punter in Paul Burton, but the Irish would love to see him on the field a lot. 

COACHING-3 
Barnett has done as much as he could without much materi­al. Maybe he should change his slogan from "Expect Victory," to "Accept Reality." 
OVERALL-26 
Expect another long evening for the Wildcats. 

Friday, September 2 1994 
"It'll certainly be a relief to just get out on the field and start playing,"
Powlus 
Powlus said. For three hours he can evade the
continued from page 1 
swarming media, which has hounded him more than any defensive linemanwith an intestinal disorder than an in­ever could. And he can prove, finally
experienced quarterback, sounds 
with actions rather than words, thatsecure about throwing Powlus to the 
he's healthy and ready to be Notre
Wildcats. And to the Wolverines. And to Dame's next Golden Boy.
the Spartans. And so on. 
"I don't want to say I'm sick of talking "It's asking a lot of him to lead this about it, but it's getting old now," heteam with as little preparation as he's said. "I feel good. It's just a matter ofhad," Holtz said as a disclaimer, before confirming it." 
adding, "if anybody can do it, Ron Powlus can." 
markable air of calm surrounds owlus. With the expectations of
H
e already holds the school record Millions resting on his twice-bro­for hype, no easy task at a place ken collarbone, he seems a little too,
where a quarterback once 
well, normal. 

changed the pronunciation of his name He's at ease with the endless mediato rhyme with "Heisman." 
exposure and, of course, even more atBut Powlus says it's the position, not ease on the football field. 
the person. 
He appears well beyond his 20 years"I wouldn't say I'm surprised (at all both mentally and physically. 
the attention). I expected a lot of hype, "He looks like he went to high schoolbut I don't really have anything to com­on the G.l. Bill," Holtz said when Powlus pare it to. If this is what it is, then this is arrived as a freshman.
what it is," he said. "It's the quar­Notorious for the unrelenting rage heterback at Notre Dame and I happen to spews at his quarterbacks to preparebe in the position." 
them for game pressure, Holtz evenHe also happens to be one of the most toned down his tirades toward Powlus. 
talented players ever to occupy the posi­"He's a different breed," Holtz said.
tion. According to those who've seen "He's very mature." 
him play often, of course. 
Powlus acknowledged the differentHis vast skills have been polished treatment he receives from Holtz, butmostly behind closed doors this fall, credited the coach for recognizing howwith only a couple of open scrimmages to get the best out of him. 
to give a glimpse of his ability. 
"Oh, I don't think he's been easy with 
An arm injury limited his practice 
me," Powlus said. "He's just dealing
time in recent weeks and started 
with me the way I respond best." 
rumors that his long-awaited debut Holtz and the rest of the world can'tmight be delayed a little longer. 
wait to see how he responds Saturday in "The arm's fme," Powlus said. "As far his first collegiate game. 
as starting Saturday, that's up to Coach Powlus the phantom will finally With a wealth of talent in the back­Becton and Randy Kinder. 
Holtz. I feel like I'll be prepared to assume the role of phenom. Or phailure. field, Holtz won't alter his run-oriented "I just want to win," Powlus said.
start." 
The former seems more likely. offense. "Whether that means handing off onIt's a moment he's been waiting for But his public unveiling probably At times Powlus will be little more every down, or throwing on every down since he cracked his collarbone in the won't involve the fireworks many Irish than the ball courier between center or running the ball, whatever. I'm will­final preseason scrimmage in 1993. 
fans expect. Mark Zataveski and tailbacks Lee ing to do whatever needs to be done." 
If he's not wearing a sling, he'll start. 

weve justdevelopedawayto make 
PowerMacintoshevenmore powerful.
(Buyone now, and we'll throw in all this software to help you power through college) 

Not only is the world's fastest Macintosh· computer available at special low student prices, but now it includes astudent software set available only from Apple. For alimited time, buy aselect Power Macintosh" and you get software that helps you through every aspect of writing papers, apersonal organizer/calendar created for your student lifestyle and the Internet Com­panion to help you tap into on-line research resources. Plus you'll get ClarisWorks, an integrated package with aword processor, database, spreadsheet and more. Buy aselect Power Mac'" with CD-ROM, and you'll also get amultimedia library of essential reference tools. It all comes with Power Macintosh-the computer that grows with you from college to the professional world. And now, with an Apple Computer Loan, its easier than ever to 
Ap 1.,_ 

own one. It's the power every student needs. The power to be your best: pe 


Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 
Offer expires lklober 17, 1994; arailable rmly while supplies last. ©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserl'ed Apple, the Apple logo, Madntosh and '"/be power to be ;our best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, inc. ApplelJesign, Power Mac and Power Macintosh are trademarks ofApple 
Computer, inc. ClarisWorks is a registered trademark ofClaris Corporation. 
page 7 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 2, 1994 

Defen Dis 
Bob Davie is the 
latest in a long line ofdefensive coordinators under Lou Holtz 
By Mike Norbut 

E
ight months ago, Bob Davie stood fifty yards away from his adver­sary, Lou Holtz. 
As he stared across the field, he won­dered how much aggressive play his defense could get away with before Holtz and the potent Irish offense caught them in a bad position and made them pay. 
Today, he stands just five feet away from the Notre Dame head coach as his defensive coordinator, on the same side­lines, wearing the same attire, but still wondering how much he'll be able to get away with. 
"We have a high turnover rate on our coaching staff," Holtz said. "The philosophies of our offense and defense cannot change drastically when coaches move on. The players need to operate under the same umbrella to give them a sense of security. 
"But Bob Davie has convinced me 
about certain things. He has made me a 
better football coach." 
But has Davie convinced him that a 
new, aggressive style of defense is just 
what the doctor ordered, or just more 
fuel added to an already destructive 
inferno? 
Prior to Davie's arrival in South Bend, 
the Irish defense was in the capable 
hands of Rick Minter, the current head 
coach of the University of Cincinnati. 
Minter brought with him an intense, complicated strategy, designed to utterly confuse the opposition. Holtz, however, began to express his doubts about this system late last season. Although he did not publicly show his displeasure, he hinted to the fact that he thought the defense was too complicated and, most of all, too aggressive. 
Three years ago, before Minter came into the picture, the defense was under the watchful eye of Gary Darnell, who, in Holtz's mind, utilized a system that took way too many chances and left the defense much too vulnerable. 
Holtz minced no words in expressing 
his anger with the situation, and 
promptly took control of the defense 
while the team prepared for the 1992 
Sugar Bowl. 
With the track record that Holtz has 
with his defensive coordinators. it's 
amazing that anyone would take a 
chance on working under his command 
and pressure. 
"The pressure I feel here is no differ­
ent than the pressure that I've felt any­
where else," Davie said. "I came here 
because Lou Holtz is the best. He leaves 
no stone unturned." 
Holtz must have done some research 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

New defensive coordinator Bob Davie begins his career under Lou Holtz Saturday against Northwestern. 
before making his latest decision, a very wise one at that. 
Everywhere he has been, Davie has created a mountain out of a mole hill, a monster out of lifeless matter, a fero­cious defense out of a tame one. 
Since he became defensive coordina­tor of Texas A&M in 1989, his defenses have ranked in the top 20 in the nation every year, including a No. 1 finish in 1991. His defense was given the nick­name "Wrecking Crew" because of the 
havoc it wreaked on opposing offenses. Everything he touches turns to gold. 
"Bob Davie has a great sense of confidence," Holtz said. "He's a great teacher, he's well orga­nized, and he relates real­
ly well to the players." 

Not only does Davie show confidence in him­self, but Holtz expresses a lot of confidence in him as well. For instance, he 
• D-PARTED been forced to play well 
under control, almost to the A list ofform~r Irish defensive point of holding back a bit.
coordinators under Lou Holtz 

"Coach Davie's system fits me because it lets us attack Rick Minter 1992-93 and try and make big plays," starting inside line-G D 111990 91 backer Jeremy Sample said. ary arne -"I think it's going to be a better system for the whole Barry Alvarez 1988-89 defense. Our front seven is extremely talented and real-Foge Fazio 1986_87 ly can do something when we are allowed to go after 
tern and molds his players into attacking beasts hungry for the kill. 
"People thought we (Texas A&M) blitzed a lot, but we really just played with a reckless abandon," Davie explained. "This recklessness will deft­nitely continue. We want to be reckless and put a lot of pressure on people." 
This exciting style will be quite a change for Irish players, who have not had much experience with the attack­and-destroy mode of thought. For the 
past few years, they have 
returned to a defense L-------------' the ball." 
with three down linemen and four linebackers this year after go­ing with a four-man front the year before. 
The 3-4 defensive formation, Davie's specialty, was the same that Holtz and Barry Alvarez, ex-Irish defensive coordi­nator and current Wisconsin head coach, used while carrying the 1988 Notre Dame team to a national title. 
The formations may be the same, but the philosophies behind them vastly dif­fer. Alvarez showed more patience in passing situations and took less risks. Davie, however, preaches pressure like it is going out of sty!e. He creates a sys-
This system especially suits the younger and inexperienced players, who will now be able to better showcase their talents on the field. 
''I'm excited to see the new players-the Jeremy Naus, the Jeremy Samples. the Paul Grasmanises," Davie said. 
In addition to getting the most out of his new personnel, Davie had to bolster this lineup with returning full-time starters Brian Hamilton, Justin Goheen, and, most of all, Bobby Taylor. 
Hamilton, a fifth-year senior, is the only man the team can look toward for experience on the defensive line. He will be joined by fellow seniors Germaine Holden and Oliver Gibson. 
Goheen, one of the team's four cap­tains this year, will join Sample at the inside linebacker positions, while the speedy Renaldo Wynn and Bert Berry will handle the duties on the outside. 
Taylor, an All-American last year. returns as the only starter in a crippled secondary, one that lost starters Jeff Burris, John Covington, and Greg Lane to graduation last year. Taking their places are the less than famous Brian Magee, Travis Davis, and Shawn Wooden. 
When Davie first started working with the team last spring, the initial plan was to move Taylor to free safety, the posi­tion he had played in high school. However, when the team returned in the fall, the coach changed his mind. 
"I gave Bobby a situation," he said. "I asked him if we were playing a team with the best receiver in the nation, who on this team should be covering him one-on-one? He said himself without a second thought. It's a challenge he wants and it's a way for us to secure the cornerback position." 
It's confidence like this that all the players, young and old, are showing on this defense. And it's because of the new defensive system, the new freedom they are getting on the field, and Bob Davie. 
"We have a lot of good players at Notre Dame," Davie continued. "Football is very important to them. The players make Notre Dame football special." 
That is, the players and a certain new .... defensive coordinator. And quite possi­bly a defensive coordinator who can get away with anything. 

--~­

No. 4 Irish versus the No. 3 Gators. Sound meaningless? It George is probably true, and Bill is probably saying Lou is 
6. Miami (1) 0-0-0 1201 6 
will be. Dohrmann spoiled because he has some form of a defense. 
7. Arizona (2) 0-0-0 1146 7
Close early on, then everything spoils for WalshA couple states over, Nebraska Sports Editor 
8. Colorado 0-0-0 1075 8
and Miami will be playing in the and Stanford. Orange Bowl for the national title. Miami isn't BOSTON COLLEGE: Glenn Foley made the New 
9. Penn State 0-0-0 1007 9 
even close to being a title contender, but that's York Jets roster. That will stop this game from 
10. Wisconsin 0-0-0 937 10 
never been the criteria, now has it. being complete revenge. 
The Irish aren't the best squad. In fact, that BYU: The cover of the Cougars media guide has 
11. Alabama (1) 0-0-0 921 12 label belongs to Nebraska. They win it all this a drawing of quarterback John Walsh in a Luke 12.Auburn 0-0-0 904 11 year. Tom Osborne is this year's Bobby Bowden. Skywalker setting with "Return of the Deadeye" 
13. Tennessee 0-0-0 812 13 
A poor old coach who has never won a national stripped across the top. That's all well and done. title (pause to wipe tears), the media will see that The problem is BYU's defense is as rigid as C3PO. 14.UCLA 0-0-0 667 14 it happens this year, just like 1993. NAVY: Thanks midshipmen for keeping our 15. Texas A&M 0-0-0 577 15 Notre Dame's downfall? Well, Jets just say it's seas free and safe. 
16. Oklahoma 0-0-0 553 16 
hardly secondary. Burris, Lane, Covington. Big FLORIDA STATE: This one is easier than people 
17. Southern Cal 0-0-0 545 17
losses. Too big. It doesn't help that the Irish face think. FSU is not as strong as last season but cer­Steve Stenstrom, Rob Johnson, and a much tainly better equipped in the area of sporting 18. North Carolina 0-0-0 523 19 improved Todd Collins from Michigan. Facing apparel. Randy Kinder runs rampant, and Powlus 
19. Texas 0-0-0 503 18
has his best game of the season. Tape this contest Steve Spurrier's attack in the crescent city won't 
20. Ohio State 1-0-0 457 20
and send a copy to Scott Bentley. Maybe he'll 

"The best delivered pizza on campus." 
Papa Predicts:
-The Observer, '93 
"Fastest growing 

small business." 
Notre Dame 4S
-Business Week 

"Best delivered pizza in Michiana." 
Northwestern 0
-Best in Michiana Contest 
HOURS: 

Frilay &Satunlay 11:00 am.-3fll am. 
... 
SLolay Nom -1ro am. 
~/wsf1111YIIIy. 


NOW HIRING 
Delivery & Inside Personnel 
•Flexible 
Schedule 

•Top 
Pay 

•I
040 hr. schedules avail­able 

•112 
prire pizza •EOE 


Friday, September 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
• JOCK STRIP 
Meet you in New Orleans 
S
tart packing your bags. 
down but George Perles makes that impossible. This season is a done When will this guy call it quits? Another blowout deal. Notre Dame will might do the trick. play Florida this New Year's Day PURDUE: Oh Boilermakers, when will you in the Sugar Bowl. Make the learn. plane reservations. Script it STANFORD: Bill Walsh called Lou Holtz a down in your daily planner, the "spoiled little man" in a recent book published about the Cardinal's offensive genius. The quote 
be pleasant either. Here's what happens before Irish fans wallow 
send one of his in return. Better than the Spice in beer on Bourbon Street. January 1. channel. NORTHWESTERN: Ron Powlus plays, throws AIR FORCE: We stole their baseball coach so very little and Lou Holtz toots as loud as Wynton the Falcons have revenge on their mind ... So. Marsalis on how his team looked awful in the vic­USC: Hard to swallow, but despite their shaky tory. 
defense, the Trojans pull the upset. Those experts MICHIGAN: Tyrone Wheatley plays and the 
say the Irish play better on the road, but FSU, Irish fans throw marshmallows, a Ia, Ann Arbor. 
Boston College, Michigan St. and The Trojans is a But it is the Irish secondary which proves soft, as 
tall order. Rob Johnson has a stellar day, and the Amani Toomer and Mercury Hayes stun Notre 
second decade of dominance never gets a chance. 
Dame early with touchdown grabs. Surprisingly, SUGAR BOWL: The final game is meaningless, or maybe not so surprising, Gary Moeller keeps but Holtz finds a way to motivate. Irish win, finish Michigan close. It comes down to a field goal, and No.2. 
luckily Notre Dame isn't kicking. Irish 23-21 
Everyone talks about 1995 as the year. It is. I'm MICHIGAN STATE: Some experts predict a let-
a senior. Matters little. 
PREV· TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Florida (14) -0-0-0 1456 1 
~ 
2. Nebraska (23) 1-0-0 1449 4 3. Notre Dame (12)0-0-0 1417 2 ~ 
4. Florida St. (8) 0-0-0 1352 3 5. Michigan (1) 0-0-0 1254 5 
•• 
21. Virginia Tech 0-0-0 258 22 22.111inois 0-0-0 249 21 23. Washington 0-0-0 186 23
MICHIGAN 

24.Ciemson 0-0-0 114 25 -~-25. Stanford 0-0-0 95 
• SPORTS EXTRA STAFF 
EDITOR: George Dohrmann MANAGING EDITOR: Jason Kelly ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Mike Norbut CONTRIBUTORS: Tim Sherman, Andy Cabiness GRAPHIC DESIGN: Chris Mullins 
~ ~ 
•w• 
-~ ~ 
"'lA· \~ 

;ACCENT
Friday, Septe~ber 2, 1994 page 13 
Notre Dame Football Tickets 

Camping Out: A Notre Dame tradition 
By BEVIN KOVALIK the J.A.C.C. twenty-four hours and everyone got acquainted staying up all night," said Saint Others are just not cut out 
Assistant Accent Editor in advance and we were sec­with each other since they Mary's junior Mindy Cota. for the adventure. 
ond in line," said Mark Naman were all on the same mission­Although students can never "I've got class and it's not go­
an off-campus senior. "I have to acquire choice seating in the really prove whether or not ing to make a difference any­
Bring out the sleeping bags, camped out for the past three stadium. this camping out business real­way," said Dillon Hall fresh­order the pizza, and pray that years. so I figured why not But is it all worth it? The ly works advantageously, it man Bill Duffy. "I think I'll wait it doesn't rain. It is that time keep up the tradition and make lack of sleep, chance of seems to be popular nonethe­and try it out next year." of year again. It's time to it four." thunderstorms, stale cheese less. Whatever the method behind camp outside for football tick­"I arrived around noon on curls at 5 a.m.? For some, it's For freshmen, the experience the madness, camping out for ets. Tuesday thinking that would the best way to kick off the is all new and exciting. football tickets is another well 
The frenzy began early give me plenty of time to claim football season. "I cannot wait to camp out preserved Irish tradition. Tuesday morning and tickets a prime spot in line," said se­"I got section 28 and row 21 for tickets. It's my dream to And those die hard Irish fans did not even go on sale for the nior Will Freve. "Instead, I for my senior year. so sleeping run into Rudy outside the might even be lucky enough to senior class until Wednesday at had to settle for a place behind out was definitely worth it," J.A.C.C.," said Brian Kubicki, catch a glimpse of Coach Holtz 8a.m. eight other people," Freve Naman said. an Alumni Hall freshman. "I or another famous Notre Dame 
.....

added. "I just had a great time hang­know I will have a really rad football personality in the wee "My friends and I arrived at The music started blaring ing out with my friends and time." hours of the morning. 
llle Observer/Tom Perez 

Seniors Keith Johnson and Rich Moore were among many students to come out early for football tickets. The pair arrived at 12:30 Monday aftemoon to be the first in fine. 
Buyer beware:Ticket office not playing games 
By THERESA ALEMAN dents this year, ••••••••••••••••••••••----.saint Mary's The box office will impose Assistant Accent Editor no matter how , students are of-stiff penalties on students who penitent. fered tickets at attempt to sell individual stu­
"Ticket policy 'dumps' on stu­There will be a slightly high-dent game tickets, "There will dents." So read the headlines about 12,000 er price than be no reissue of confiscated in the Viewpoint section of last student tickets ND students. tickets and students will have to year's Observer when it looked sold this year This year's pay full price for the return of as though students who had according to ticket book 'cost tickets reported lost or stolen," their tickets confiscated at the J.A.C.C. ticket ND students said Scholl. USC game would have to pay manager. Bill $84 while SMC $162 in addition to missing the Scholl. This tickets cost More than 100 student tickets FSU game. number is $112. were confiscated at the USC .. 
slightly higher "They get game last year when vacation­
Student tickets... handle than the popu-tickets because ing students gave away or sold with care, and definitely don't lation of the stu-of the tradition-their tickets. Roughly a couple get caught selling them or they dent body al connection hundred more were confiscated could be lost. Although tickets because Notre between Saint at the FSU game according to were given back last year after Dame does offer Mary's and Scholl. "We decided not to take students were given a scare, tickets to spouses of students. track of their tickets and so can Notre Dame, but the price is the hard line last year because sources at the ticket office warn Tickets are sold in a book the box office. slightly higher -there is still an of the game of the century," that no such concessions will be rather than as individual tickets Holy Cross students are not advantage to being an ND stu-said Scholl. "This year we def­offered to money-hungry stu-so that students can keep better offered student tickets while dent," said Scholl. initely will." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Need student to pass out Long  MAC CLASSIC II, 6/80, extras, soft­ NEED 2 MICH. GA TIX.  WANTED:  FRESHMEN-SOPHOMORES:  
NOTICES  Distance callling card info to stu­dents. Monthly income. Call 800­ ware. $750 call: 4-1240  CALL BILL AT 233-5719  4 GA'S FOR STANFORD 1011  LEARN LEADERSHIP AND EARN MONEY FOR SCHOOL. INDIANA  
462-3092.  FOR SALE: Mac Classic. Includes  Need STANFORD  CALL JASON x1 033  ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. CALL  
S E N 0 R S  Microsoft Word, Excel, etc. Call  GAs, 1 Stdnt  MAJOR TIM WARRICK (219)  
PART-TIME NANNY NEEDED to  Mike 273-6077.  Call Curti$ 282-2197  WANTED 2 MICHIGAN GA FOOT·  234·9258.  
E REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS  care for 1 & 4 yr. old during week·  BALL TICKETS. PLEASE CALL  
INTERVIEWS- days. 1 0 mi S. of NO-own trans­ dorm trig., hide a bed, couch,  ALUMNI DESPERATE FOR Ml  634-3106.  WANTED:  
N  portation needed. 9:30 to  chairs, stereo cabinet 259·3023  GA'S AND Ml STU TXS. Please  
SEPT. 2, 6, 7 FROM  4:30 or any regular block of time  call Andrea@ 612·565·3299.  BEAUTIFUL NURSE NEEDS 1  EXERCISERS WHO ARE LOOK·  
9:00A.M. TO 5:00P.M.  during those hrs. Can be flexible.  GERWIN VEGA SPEAKERS -12"  G.A. FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME.  lNG FOR A FUN, ENERGETIC  
IN CAREER & PLACEMENT  Please call299-0051.  WOOFERS, HORN TWEETER, 3  2-4 GA Purdue Tickets. $75.00 per  PLEASE CALL 287-7444.  AEROBICS PROGRAM. JOIN US  
0 SERVICES.  WAY. CALL 616-429·5208.  ticket. 515-965·0512  AT JAZZERCISE,  
HELP WANTED:  1 GA for all home games for sale.  GEORGETOWN SHOPPING CEN·  
R  ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS  TICKETS  Wanted: 4 Mich GAs. Desperate Alum promised boss tixl Career in  Call Ed at (708) 366-1329.  TER. 277-0111.  
s  NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND  jeopardy. Call Brian 815-568-6977.  I WILL BUY YOUR STD. TIX.  LESS THAN 10 MINS. FROM  
ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY  NEED 2 GA'S FOR ALL GAMES.  BOOKLET. CALL 233·5130.  CAMPUS.  
ILOST&FOUNDI  NEWS SERVICES, 232-3205 OR 288-9361.  CALL BOB 219-232-5297.  NEED STANFORD GA'S BRIAN X2187  STUDENT DISCOUNTS AVAIL· ABLE.  
I NEED TIX FOR MICHIGAN AND  NEED STUDENT  
FOUND: 2 keys on a red "Brine"  WANTED: RESPONSIBLE, KID·  TALLAHASSEE. I AM VERY DES·  NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS  TIX BOOKLET!  PRAY TO ST. JUDE, PATRON OF  
clothe string outside DeBartolo  LOVING STUDENT WITH CAR TO  PERATE. CALL CHRISTIAN AT  STUDENT OR GA'S  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!  IMPOSSIBLE CAUSES.  
101on 8-30-94. Call631-7970 to  BABYSIT 2 CHILDREN AGES 4 &6  287-6743. WILL PAY BIG$.  WILL PAY$$, BLOOD (B+) or  call MATT @ x3386  
claim.  IN MY HOME. 2-3 DAYS PER  A KIDNEY CALL: 277-9442  SKYDIVING!l Experience the ulti·  
WEEK FROM 2-6. PLEASE CALL  NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE &  I NEED ONE MICHIGAN TICKET  mate of all sports with the Great  
PLEASE HELP MEIIII LOST: ONE  277·5786.  STANFORD! X2174.  I need a student booklet or any tick·  PLEASE CALL MELISSA AT  Lakes Skydivers. We are the oldest  
GOLD BRACELET AROUND ST.  ets for football games. Will pay big  272-0108.  and most experienced club in the  
MARY'S LAKE ON FRI. AUG 26.  SPRING BREAK '95-SELL TRIPS,  NEED 1 MICH TICKET  $$$. Call 277-1085.  area. We have several different  
HUGE SENTIMENTAL VALUE! IF  EARN CASH & GO FREEl!!  STUD. ORGA  I DESPERATELY NEED Ml TIXII  training programs available, all  
FOUND, PLEASE CALL  Student Travel Services is now hir·  PLEASE CALL DARRYL @ X4243  LET ME BUY YOUR MICHIGAN  X4-3881  approved by the USPA. Call for  
SHANNON AT X4026  ing campus representatives. Lowest  TIX. I NEED 2 GA. CALL 273­ class times and schedules. Located  
rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona  $$$1 NEED MICHIGAN TIX. GA OR  9612 $$$$  FOR SALE: STU. SEASON TK.  1 hour North of South Bend. 1·616·  
FOUND: Camping for tickets, a  and Panama City Beach. Call1·  STUD. CALL KAREN X4290.  SR. SECT! B.O. OVER $150  628-4892.  
key ring with three keys rm 421. call  80Q-648-4849.  """NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA's•••  CALL DOUG@ 277·8419  
Claude! at 3719  I NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS. GA  Will trade with 2 STANFORD GA's  GO ACROSS CAMPUS UNDER A  
HELP! My uncle will lose all respect  AND STUDENT. CALL LISA  &lor monEoyl Please call 634-4896.  I need 1 or 2 Michigan GA's  GROOVY TIE-DYED WOOD­ 
WANTED  tor me, if I don't score a bunch of Stanford/NO tickets. If you can help  X2325.  I need 2 STANFORD GAs,  please call Kathleen @ x4899  STUCK UMBRELLA. $13.00 + S&H.  
please call, money is no object.  ROLLING STONES • 9/9 at E.  preferably together. Laura 4x2637  Need 3 Michigan GA's. Will pay big  CALL 1-800·259·1250 TO  
LOOKING FOR 4TH FEMALE  Bob Ricci,  Lansing (MSU), floor, 237-2111,  $$$, Kevin at 289-3203  ORDER.  
ROOMMATE TO SHARE 4 BED­ 201-239-2222 or 908-289-0199.  leave message.  Willing to pay $ any student who  
ROOM HOUSE, 725 ANGELA 50  will sell 1 ;MICHIGAN ticket.  WILL TRADE 2 FSU GA'S FOR 2  NATIONAL WHOLESALE ELEC·  
YDS FROM CAMPUS.  Wanted- A LOCAL BUSINESSMAN NEEDS  Call Christy x2845.  Ml GA'S. CALL ANDREA @ 612·  TRONICS COMPANY SEEKS  
$250/MO/WASHER DRYER &  A N.D or S.M.C. faculty or staff  2 PAIRS OF GA SEASON TICK·  565-3299.  CAMPUS SALES REPRESENT A·  
UTILITIES. 232·2595.  member interested in a expense  ETS. 272·7233.  NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S. BETH  TIVE. GAIN VALUABLE EXPERI­ 
paid ski trip to Crested Butte  X2965.  HELP!ll  ENCE PLUS SUBSTANTIAL  
LOOKING FOR MUSICIANS TO  Colorado, Jan 8-15 with the ski  "BIG BARGAIN • HURRY"  Need Michigan & Stanford tix.  EARNING POTENTIAL.  
FORM ROCK/BLUES BAND. CALL  club. If interested please contact  WILL TRADE MY 6 AF GA OR 4  Need 2 Ml stud. tix. Call Monica  Call Alan @ x1663  CALL 1-800-345-C.A.V.E.  
PETE 233-5130.  Kevin Malone @ 272·1352  AF. PLUS 2 NAVY OR USC FOR  813·254-::1716  
YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S.  NEED MICH STUD OR GA'S  $ave with CREDI-CALL. Charge  
MORE FUN THAN A JOB OUGHT  Student Travel Sales! Sunchase  "288·1186"  I desperately need 2 GA tickets for  CALL TED X-3054 $$$  long distance phone calls to  
TO BEl  Tours is seeking ambitious sales  the NAVY game! Call Rosanna  Visa/MC/Disc..239/min entire USA.  
reps to promote ski and beach trips  I NEED NO SEASON & ALL  x3577  No surcharge. 800-364-7933 Ext  
JOIN THE TEAM OF THE  for Christmas and Spring Break!  GAMES GA. WILL PAY TOP $$$$.  NEED STUD BOOKS AND GA  8699  
BUSIEST RESTAURANT IN  Earn cash and free trips. Call  WILL ALSO TRADE MY 6 OR 4  Need Stanford GA. call: 4-1240  FOR ALL GAMES  
MICHIANA! FULL-TIME AND  today: 1·800-SUNCHASE.  FOR YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S.  
PART-TIME, AM/PM SPOTS  BE SURE TO CALL. 288-1186.  Need 4 GA's four Purdue game,  TONY 272 -6621  S E N 0 R S  
OPEN FOR: • LINE COOKS  FOR RENT  ST. JUDE, WANT 2·4 SEASON OR  together please tor family. Chris x1955  E REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS  
•SERVERS  INDIVIDUAL GA TIX.  I NEED MICH. STUDS.  INTERVIEWS­ 
•PREP COOKS  ENGLISHWOMAN OFFERS  312·404-4903 DAN.  Need 2 Mich. GA's  KEVIN 271-7428  
• BARTEND"ERS - QUIET ACCOMMODATION NEAR  Call Chris 273-3975  SEPT. 2, 6, 7 FROM  
• DISHWASHERS  CAMPUS FOR ND/SMC VISI·  I NEED GA'S FOR MICHIGAN,  Need 1 Mich stud Tix  9:00A.M. TO 5:00 P.M.  
TORS. PHONE  PURDUE, STANFORD, BYU &  Need Micl~. Stud. Tlx  Call Bill @ 272·2376  IN CAREER & PLACEMENT  
TOP PAY AND GREAT BENEFITS  (219)631·6072 DAYTIME,  FSU. MIKE 289-3203.  Call Chri! 273-3975  0 SERVICES.  
INCLUDING FLEXIBLE HOURS. IF  (219)273-1751 EVENINGS.  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASEI!lllll  
YOU'RE A WINNER. ..WHAT ARE  ALUMNUS NEEDS 1 TICKET TO  2 U of M ':iA's 4 Sale-best offer.  My Little Brother is Flying in  ·R-·  
YOU WAITING FOR. APPLY IN  NOTRE DAME HOME GAMES  MICHIGAN GAME ON 9/10 OR  284-5174 & leave msg. Also all Stu.  tor the Michigan Game and  
PERSON. EVERYONE LOOKS  RENT LARGE COUNTRY HOME  WILL EXCHANGE 2 TICKETS +  Tix.  Desperately Needs a Ticket  s  
FORWARD TO  IN GRANGER. WILL SLEEP 8  CASH FOR 3 TICKETS TOGETH­ (Stud. or GA)  
FRIDAY'S  PERSONS, 8-10 MILES TO STADI­ ER. CALL TOM HILDNER AT (201)  Need 1 or 2 Mich tix GA or st  ••••call Theresa x470s ..••  
4730 N. GRAPE ROAD  UM AND MINS. TO TOLL  623-1000 OR  Will trade Navy or Purdue tix or  $5.50 HAIRCUT  
MISHAWAKA  RD.  (201) 467:9824.  BIG BUC'<S! x4035  Wanted Student Ticket Booklet call  
EEO  FRI. TO SUN. $500 CASH PLUS  Erin at 284-5341  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
$100 DEPOSIT. ALUMNI PLEASE  WANTED: OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS.  Need stu ·tent season tickets  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
PH. 273-9240.  4 TOGETHER. CALL  Pete til 4-4531  233-4767  
ARE YOU READY FOR A HEAV­ 800-922-2327 JANET.  Will buy Student Ticket Booklets for  
ENLY EXPERIENCE?  Football Weekends-3 bedroom,  outrageous amounts. Call sean at  Grand Opening  
BECOME PART OF AN INTER·  comfortable home for rent. Walk to  NO VS FSU NOV. 12, CITRUS  Wanted: 2 GA's for Navy game!!  x11 01. Any section.  SIMONE'S WHIPPING CHAMBER  
ESTING, CHALLENGING RETAIL  game. Responsible adults only.  BOWL  Plea!:e call Amy 4-1330.  STANFORD 128 Ph. #2123  
OPERATION. PREVIOUS FOOD  219-277-7371 evenings or 616·  FAN NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE  ND FAMILY REUNION needs  Bus. Hours 9:00am to 9:00pm  
SERVICE EXPERIENCE HELP·  782-8470 weekends.  CALL 407-246-1879. MAY CALL  Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call  For A Good Time, Call For An Appt.  
FUL. IMMEDIATE OPENING.  COLLECT.  I NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR THE  517-332-4719.  
HOURS 1:30-6:30 MONDAY THRU  ROOMMATE needed. Female pref.  MICHIGAN GAME. PLEASE CALL  I am the man  
·­ FRIDAY AND EVERY OTHER SATURDAY 8:30-2:00.  Oak Hill Condo. Own room & bath. Call 273-4485.  ND ALUMNUS HAS MICHIGAN, STANFORD AND AIR FORCE  X2273.  Needed: Ticket, preferably GA, tor first home game. My mother will be  
APPLY IN PERSON AT HEAVEN·  GA'S AND IS LOOKING TO  NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH.  eternally grateful. Call 4-4185.  S E N 0 R S  
L Y HAM, 2307 EDISON BETWEEN  HAVE 3 BEDROOMS FOR RENT  TRADE FOR BYU. CALL  DESPERATE, WILL PAY$$$  
8:30-10:00 OR  NEAR ND FOR FOOTBALL AND  (717) 697·2219 ASK FOR TOM  CALL JASON, 272-4297  Need 4 Stanford GA'sl  E REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS  
2:00-5:00.  SPECIAL EVENTS. $50 A NITE.  OR LEAVE MESSAGE.  Willing to pay $$$$  INTERVIEWS­ 
CONT. BREAKFAST.  Need Mich stud tix Eric x1087  Call Suzy 4-3427  N  
BABYSITTER NEEDED AT LEAST  219-272-9260.  ALUMNI DESPERATELY NEEDS  W!llcome Back Sue!  SEPT. 2, 6, 7 FROM  
2 MORNINGS A WEEK, SEPT.  TIX FORUM GAME. WILL PAY  WANTED: 2 ND-MICH TIX. CALL  9:00A.M. TO 5:00P.M.  
OCT. ONLY. WILL WORK  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY.  $$$AND/OR TRADE AF OR NAVY  FOR SALE: 2 GRAD.STD. TIX.  COLLECT PAUL THAL,  IN CAREER & PLACEMENT  
AROUND CLASS SCHEDULE. 2  PRIVATE HOMES· NO/SMC  TIX. CALL DAN (319) 323-7152  BOOKLETS 271-8621  BUS: 810-477-0800, X2365  0 SERVICES.  
CHILDREN AGES 3 & 1. MUST  EVENTS.  AFTER5.  OR HOME: 810·349·5543.  
HAVE TRANSPORTATION.  219·291-7153.  I NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S BADLY  R  
272-2984.  NEED MICHIGAN STD. OR GA'S.  PARENTS FLYING IN FROM NY  4 Stanford GA's-I need them.  
ROOMMATE NEEDED-2BDRM  CALL 233·5130.  MIKE X4:!210  Please call Bevin at x2533 and let's  s  
APT., 10MIN FROM CAMPUS,  make a deal.  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  NONSMOKER,$200/MONTH,  I WILL BUY ANY HOME GAMES.  WANTED: MICHIGAN TICKETS  
BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS &  CALL 631-8805.  233·5130.  I need one Michigan ticket. Please  WELCOME BACK!  
GO FREEl BEST TRIPS &  WILL BEAT OTHERS BEST  help me and call John at 277-5720.  
PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  BED & BREAKFAST  SEEKING TWO G.A.'S TO MICHl·  OFFER WILLING TO TRADE  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT RESUME EXPERIENCE! 1-800·  291-2258.  GAN, PURDUE AND STANFORD GAMES  OTHER HOME GA'S. CALL KYLE AT x1478.  PERSONAL  94949494949494949494949494  
678-63861  FOR SALE  CALL DOREEN @ X4231  NEED MICHIGAN & BYU TICK·  RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR  Attention Domersll The Chi-Town Trio of Laura, Frank,  
ANYONE NEEDING TO LIVE OFF·  I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.  ETS. PLEASE CONTACT ERIN AT  FOR ONLY $99 FOR TWO  & Lamar announces its first ever  
CAMPUS FOR THE 1ST SEMES·  NEW LAPTOP COMPUTERS­ 272-6551  634-4015.  SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­ NO I NU Welcome Back Bash.  
TER AND IS BRAVE ENOUGH TO  CHEAP! "486DX2/50,4MB  ERY CALL:  All are welcome!  
LIVE AT LAFAYETTE CALL 233­ RAM,COLOR,PCMCIA, SOFT·  DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHI­ WILL PAY CASH FOR GA'S FOR  COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  Tailgate with us in the south or  
5130.  WARE AND MORE "486DX  GAN STUDENT TICKETS  ALL HOME GAMES AND FSU.  272-5959.  east lot at Soldier Field. We'll be  
33,8MB RAM,ACTIVE MATRIX  CALL SEAN AT 634-1101  MIKE 28H-3203.  under the white balloon & the  
PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE  COLOR, PCMCIA, SOFTWARE  WILL TRADE CAR OR ORGANS IF  THE OFFICIAL CHICAGO BAR  flying plaid pants (we're alums  
TAKING PHYSICAL INVENTO­ AND MORE  NECESSARY.  NEED TIJVO MICHIGAN GA'S.  GUIDE.  now, y'knowl) Food, fun, and  
•  RIES. WORK AROUND YOUR SCHEDULE. DAYS AND/OR  CALL CHRIS @ 273-2070  X2254.  150 pgs. oi accurate info., individual listings & catagorical indices by  plenty of spirit(s) for everyone! GO IRISH!l  
WEEKENDS. $5.25 PER HOUR  FOR SALE: TWIN BED & CHAIR.  4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED.  I NEED MICHIGAN GA'S  domers ('83).  
CALL 272-0408 CLANCY INVEN­ CALL 4-3121.  CALL X2875 (NICKY)  CALL RYAN: 271-5685  Send $12 check or money order  94949494949494949494949494  
TORY SERVICES  (incs. S&H) to  
'91 BLUE CAVALIER. MUST SELL  $$$$  BOOKS INK, P.O. 734, Notre  
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST  . GOOD PRICE. A BONUS OF F·  LOOKING FOR SOME FALL  Dame, IN 46556 .  
GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY  BALL APPL. CALL 634-2689.  BREAK CASH?  
SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO·  NEED TICKETS (STUDENT OR  NEED 2 TIX FOR NO-MICH.  VETERANS: NEED MONEY FOR  Hey, KTI!l  
MOTE SPRING BREAK TO  '86 YUGO, $1,000. ONLY 26,000  GA) TO ANY AND ALL GAMES!  GAME. CALL AIMEE AT 277·0715.  SCHOOL? JOIN THE INDIANA  What is that smell???  
JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS,  MI., RUNS GREAT. JON 1-1220.  (HOME OR AWAY) CALL JEN AT  $$$$  ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. GOOD  Here kitty kitty kittyll!  
FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE  X2875!  LEADERSHIP POSITIONS AVAIL­ -Hussy A  
TRAVEUCOMMISSIONS! SUN  87 HONDA CIVIC Wagon, 4WOr.,  $$Need MICH. TIX$$  ABLE NOW. CALL MAJOR TIM  
SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426·7710.  Manual ($3800). Call631-5411  CALL Mli<E 289 6988  WARRICK (219) 234·9258.  




-----~---------­
Friday, September 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NFL 
Wannstedt hopes rotation will solve Chicago woes 
ByRICKGANO his years with the Steelers. 
Associated Press Curtis Conway, who had only 19 catch­es as a rookie last season, and Jeff CHICAGO Graham, obtained in a trade with the The Chicago Bears' offense didn't Steelers, are the starting wide receivers move the ball -couldn't move it -last with veteran Tom Waddle and free season, but it did produce some noise at agents Nate Lewis and Greg McMurtry, Soldier Field. signed this week after being cut by the 
The boos were so loud that no ear Rams, as backups. muffs could block them out. The 28th­Dent and McMichael combined for 217 ranked offense in the NFL was in need sacks during their 11 seasons, and their of an overhaul, and Coach Dave replacements are Alonzo Spellman and Wannstedt has done just that. Carl Simpson, who have seven between 
Changes have been sweeping, mainly them in five seasons. Pressuring the on offense, as the Bears opened up their quarterback is a major concern. bank account and went shopping in the "I know I got to put pressure on the 
free agent market. quarterback, and there is no such thing No Jim Harbaugh, the target of most as a one-man rush," said Trace fan abuse, or Neal Anderson or Richard Armstrong, who had 11.5 sacks last sea­
Dent or Keith Van Horne or Steve son. McMichael. Craig "Ironhead" Heyward "You can't get there with just one guy. is gone, too. You've got to have two or three or four ... The Bears' final roster for Sunday's guys getting their consistently." 
season opener against Tampa Bay Middle linebacker Dante Jones had includes 14 players not on the roster at 189 tackles last season, the most ever by the end of 1993, when Chicago wrapped a Bear, and also tied for the lead in 
up a 7-9 season. interceptions with four. Joe Cain and The new faces are many -quarter­Vinson Smith start on the outside. A vet­back Erik Kramer, tackle Andy Heck, eran secondary featuring safeties Shaun running back Lewis Tillman, backup Gayle and Mark Carrier and corner 
quarterback Steve Walsh, fullback Jeremy Lincoln and Donnell Woolford is Merril Hoge and tight end Marv Cook. considered the strength of the defense. 
"The (Shaun) Gayles and the (Kevin) Albert Fontenot and rookies John Butlers and the (Trace) Armstrongs and Thierry, a first-round draft choice, and the (Mark) Carriers, we got a nucleus of Jim Flanigan, will be defensive line guys who've been here a few years. backups. Obviously, we've added some new guys. Kramer isn't worried about the fan how we progress, if we move from step "Everybody is going to play. If we Our guys have come together very nice­reaction. one and then we can add something rotate guys, I'm optimistic that by doing ly, and I feel good about the chemistry," "As long as none of them start putting new," said Wannstedt, whose team went that and keeping guys fresh, we'll be Wannstedt said. on shoulder pads and helmets, I don't 4-0 in the preseason. able to get some pressure and sacks," 
Kramer was given a three-year, $8.1 think we'll have to worry about it too Tillman, who was a backup with the Wannstedt said. million contract, even though he's made much. Hopefully, they won't start booing Giants, beat Tim Worley out for the Butler, now in his lOth season as the only 17 NFL starts in four seasons, 15 if we rack up some points, too," he said starting tailback job. Hoge, who played place-kicker, is the No. 25 scorer in NFL with Detroit and two in 1987 when he with a grin. seven seasons with the Steelers, gives history. He made 27 of 36 field goals last was a strike replacement player with "How much we do offensively really the Bears a pass receiver out of the season. Chris Gardocki is again the Atlanta. His record as a starter is 11-6. won't be based this year on talent as to backfield and had 241 catches during holder and punter. 


,­


Are you considering being baptized? Are you thinking about becoming a Catholic? 
Ifso, you are welcome to find out how this can happen at Notre Dame.· 
You are invited to an information session: Sunday, September 4th, at 4:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame Room-LaFortune Student Center 
or Wednesday, September 7th, 10:00 p.m. Campus Ministry Office -Hesburgh Library 
Questions? Call Father Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 1-7800 or 1-5056 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September2, 1994 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
No place like home for Miami 

By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 

MIAMI 
The Orange Bowl sits in the heart of Little Havana, where the coffee, cigars and football team are hard to beat. 
The Miami Hurricanes have won 57 consecutive games at the Orange Bowl. With a victo­ry in Saturday's season opener against Georgia Southern, they'll surpass the NCAA record for the longest home winning streak, set by Alabama in 1962-82. 
"When you sit and think about it, 58 straight has to be one of the most amazing accomplishments in football," said coach Dennis Erickson, who is 31-0 at the Orange Bowl. 
Miami last lost at home in 1985, when Florida beat the Hurricanes 35-23 in the season opener. Jammi German, a starting wide receiver now, was starting the fifth grade then. 
Since that loss, the Hurricanes have won three na­tional championships -in 1987. '89 and '91. They clinched two of those titles with New Year's night victories in the Orange Bowl. 
For the cover photo of this ed an extra season of eligibility because of a knee injury. 
The tradition of the stadium is such, Medearis said, that sim­ply running onto the field before an important game ranks with life's biggest thrills. 
"There's no way I can put it into words," he said. "It's like one of my friends who told me he went skydiving -you can't tell someone about skydiving. You have to do it. 
"You have to be in uniform and have that helmet strapped on and run through that tunnel. That's the only way you'll ever know. I wish everybody on this earth had a chance to do it. It's one of the greatest things that will ever happen to me." 
During the streak, the team running through that tunnel is a combined 12-0 at home against Florida State, Notre Dame, Oklahoma, Nebraska and Florida. The Hurricanes have posted 13 shutouts and have scored at least 40 points 24 times. 
They haven't been bad on the road, going 40-11 since the 1985 opener. But at home, they've been unbeatable. 
"The Orange Bowl has some strange powers," former Miami receiver Lamar Thomas said. 
"Losing never came to mind when we stepped on that field." 
The Hurricanes' home crowds are not always large; they've attracted just nine sellouts dur­ing the streak. When they tied Alabama's record against Memphis State at the end of last year. attendance was just 38,737-half of capacity. 
But for a big game, the atmos­phere turns electrifying. "A madhouse," defensive tackle Warren Sapp said. 
"The crowd is insane; the whole town is insane," quarter­back Frank Costa said. "We're thrilled to death the Florida State game will be at night, because this town is berserk at night." 
The visit by the defending national champions on Oct. 8 represents the biggest threat to the streak this season. Miami also plays Washington, Virginia Tech, Pittsburgh and Boston College at home. 
Alabama needed two decades to win 57 in a row at home. and that achievement warrants an asterisk. The Crimson Tide often played their toughest opponents in Birmingham, where they lost 11 games while compiling the winning streak in Tuscaloosa. 






season's media guide, uni­versity officials chose not 
John P. O'Malley
Erickson or a player. but the horseshoe-shaped bowl they 
Sales Representative 
call home. 

New Memberships or Transfers 
"It's as much a part of this 
"'~--........ Auto & Property Insurance 
program as anything," de­
CHICAGO 

AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB
fensive end Rusty Medearis 
MOTOR 

5922 GRAPE ROAD
said. 
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA
Medearis can appreciate the 
MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545
Orange Bowl better than most. 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980
He's a sixth-year senior, grant-
Please atlk tor John O'MIIe . 






JB3<e & "i\f(O)ll1Ul.J!ll1t<e<e1r ~}P(O)Irll~(O)Jf f(O)Jf
The Observer 

.IRCCll~& (Q)Jr CC(O)J.mifJlJ.rm& tft(Q)J.m~ 
Any Saint Mary's Student interested in writing or 

taking photos for the Observer should attend a Tills year, some ofyour peers, maybe even afriend or someone
meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 6th at: you know from down the hall will decide to become Catholblc 
8pm in Holy Cross Hall 

through the RCIA. The way it works is, we all learn together from 8:30pm in LeMans Hall 
each other ... you, as a sponsor, would answer questions ( ?J 
9:00pm in McCandless Hal 

but you'd probably discover that you had some questions9:30pm in Regina Hall 
too. Please contact Beth Regan at 631-4540 or 
VVhich would be a good thing. 284-4449 ifyou have any questions. 
Sponsors serve as friends, companions and guides to other students as they prepare to take new steps in their lives of faith. 
SoonsorWonnation Sessions 
RCIA: for students who wish to become Catholic Christians 
Monday, September 5, 6:30 pm, Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Cente or Thursday, September 8, 10:00 om, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Confirmation: for baptized Catholics who wish to receive the Sacrament of Confirmation 
Monday, September 12 at 6:30 pm, in the Faculty Dining Room which is upstairs in the South Dining Hall 
FINE QUALITY SPORTSWEAR -~~ 
GOLF EQUIPMENT ~-Questions?
~~MPL-JS Call or see: Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
TEE TIMES M\l_INISTRY 
Office of Camnus '"linistrv-642S 103 Hesburgh Library · 
631 1-7800 or 1-5056 
·-~~k~~~~~~··OOLOIO.~IIOOIOAOiaoo•••••••••~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 

..--------~------------~~----~-----------~---~~-----~-­
Friday, September 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COU.EGE BASKETBAll 
Troublesome Knight finds another fowl situation 
Associated Press lations, said Dan Henkel. a "They would probably be mis­Lehay said some in the group Henkel said he believed there spokesman for the Department demeanors at the most," may have violated federal laws, were one or two federal offi­SULLIVAN, Ind. of Natural Resources. Henkel said. including hunting in a baited cials on hand during the 
Indiana University basketball "My understanding is that Mr. area, exceeding the limit on encounter, along with several coach Bob Knight was cited for Knight didn't have a hunting Tom Lehay, a conservation geese, illegal tagging of the state conservation officers. a state hunting violation Thurs­license with him," Henkel said. officer at the DNR post in birds and general license viola­day, the first day of early goose "There may have been other Sullivan County, told WTHI-TV tions. Henkel said it was also his season in Indiana, state officials violations." in Terre Haute that at 5 a.m. There have been no federal understanding that baiting may said. Henkel said Knight was not Knight and 12 others from the charges filed against any of the have been involved. The prac­
Knight was among several jailed and charges have not area went hunting for geese men and it will be up to federal tice involves using corn or men in Sullivan County who been filed against him or the near the Amax coal mine in prosecutors to decide that, offi­other crops to bait the geese were cited for various vio-others. Sullivan County. cials said. into an area. 
JUNIORS' 
SLIP 

DRESS 
All That Jazz 
crepe slip 
dress with 
lace-up back 
and white 
tee,$50. 

Rampage My Michelle denim slip long crepedress with slip dressstriped with silver tee, $50. 
metallic tee,$60. 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 2, 1994 
• GolF hold the team back at times this year in order to make that happen." continued from page 20 And this may be Petrucelli's 
Soccer

Daly's bad-boy image angering 
last season where he has the 
celli. 
convenience of being able to

• • The Irish also have the benefit 
hold his team back, since the of learning from both their suc­Irish join the much more com­

PGA cofllflltsstoner, peers 
cesses and failures during the petitive Big East next season. 
1993 season. Unprecedented
By JIM LITKE time sports where the players strokes behind winner Jose "The one advantage we've had 
success for the squad led to un­
Associated Press still behave. Or at least," he Maria Olazabal. in the MCC is that we've been 
precedented pressure, which
added, "it's supposed to be. It's "Almost everything John able to give playing time to a 
the Irish hope to handle better
Golf's biggest draw has an integral part of the fans' at~ does makes news," Daly's lot of people," said Petrucelli. 
this season.

become its biggest headache. traction to the game. " agent, John Mascatello said. With the season opener
"Last year at the end of the 
In some other sports, John As incredible as some of "We're used to that. Saturday against Rutgers, the 
season there was a ton of pres­
Daly and his lengthening rap Daly's tee shots have been, his "This time, at least, it seems Irish will get a taste of the com­
sure going into the tournament
sheet would be a welcome sustained drawing power has like he got pretty fair treat­petition in seasons to come. 
and we got beat in the first
development. In some other been even more incredible. And ment. Nearly every account I've But you won't catch Petrucelli 
round. We learned a lesson
sports, a caboose on the loose for a while, considering some of seen or heard about reported looking ahead too far. 
there. We want to have expec­
becomes the perfect excuse to the scrapes he gol himself into, that the other guy jumped him "For all the success we've 
tations and pressure, but facing 
kickstart the hype machine. that made Daly seem bullet­from behind," he added. "In had, you need to recognize that 
those will also be our biggest
What would boxing be with­proof. this case, his problem is not we still have not won an NCAA 
challenge this season." 
out a Mike Tyson or some other But it's becoming in­with the media." tournament game." 
"We peaked too early last sea­
thinly veiled threat of mayhem creasingly harder to tolerate According to Mascatello, his But if the Irish can put their 
son, and this year we want to
to promote? What's the real him and his antics. Fellow client has not yet heard from bad luck behind them, this sea­
make sure that doesn't hap­
appeal of NASCAR racing, if not golfers and even PGA higherups' PGA Commissioner Tim son they may-no matter who's 
pen-we'd like to peak in
the crashes? And it's not just are no longer looking at just the Finchem about what aetion, if left on the field and who else is 
-· 
the dangerous sports that size of Daly's galleries; they're any, will be taken in the wake November. I may even need to hobbling the sidelines. appreciate the boost provided starting to look at what kind of of this latest episode. The agent by an athlete playing his game galleries. Few like the trend said Daly was spending the close to the edge. they're seeing. week at home, refusin1~ inter­
Tennis hasn't been the same views while nursing a lower­Mike: "Come on, little sis, and I'll since John McEnroe took his "His following seems to be back injury that was aggravat­show you where everything is." Jekyll-and-Hyde act to the the rough journeyman. The ed further when Bob Roth, 
Mariah: "Why? I'd never evenbroadcast booth. Basketball, good old boys. I have seen it," father of Jeff Roth, jumped on consider going to college this far baseball, football, hockey -Hale Irwin said in an interview it. As of Thursday, there were away from home." 

each thrives when there is an in the October issue of Golf more medical tests planned and undercurrent of tension. That's Digest. no word from Daly on how long why Dennis Rodman, Steve "They don't know anything he planned to sit out. Happy Birthday Howe, and Bob Probert, to about golf. They want to see By most accounts, the elder name just a few, have no trou­him hit a long way. You can't Roth was incensed that Daly, from California, 
ble fmding employment season deny that he is popular." while playing behind his son, after season. When Daly got into a scuffie twice hit balls into Jeffs group. Mariah Sharkey. 
But golf was different. Or at Sunday afternoon with the 62-When the rounds were finished, least it was until Daly burst on year-old father of another Daly and the elder Roth We love and miss you. the scene three years ago. golfer after finishing his round swapped insults in the parking 
Dad, Mom, Mike,

"More than any of the other at the World Series of Golf, he lot, after which Bob Roth games, sportsmanship is still got more coverage than the allegedly jumped him from Joe &John one of the our biggest selling winner. Not bad for a guy who behind. They were quickly sep­points," Tom Watson said. shot 83 and finished four spots arated by caddies and specta­
"It's the last bastion in big-from the bottom of the field, 27 tors. 


wto Fir1 

Find the books you need, sell the books you don't! More information.~(a computerlab cluster near you! 

--~---~ 

Friday, September 2, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
NOTRE DAME •RLINOIS-CHICAGO • MICIDGAN STATE •WESTERN MICIDGAN 

FIRST 500 STUDENTS AT TONIGHT'S 
7:30 p.m. MATC 
GETA COUPON FORA 
FREE 

TOhi·J:&·II.T & T·o·~·o.RJ?,'OW '! E;i>T'E;~;i~E~R· ·2~ 
,.. I 0 ,.. • I • ,.. I. • • 
AT T~N:"E :J·.-...... -.·.~-.·.~-.·.
. --. , . ..,..\.f•.\.f•
. . ·' . . . 
FRESHMEN! FRESHMEN! 
lNG THE PASS YOU DON'T FORGET T=TO TONIGHT$ 7:30 RECEIVED IN THE GET ACOUPON FOR A 
GAME FOR TO 
-FREE BLIMPIE SUB! 
, 
-



-·~-----· 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 2, 1994 
"As her career goes on here

• WoMEN's SoccER 
at Notre Dame, her role be­
Daws 

Despite injuries, Irish can't lose 
ByRIANAKEY 
Associate Spons Editor 
Junior back Julie Vogel will miss the entire 1994 season recovering from back surgery. Two-time All-American Ragen Coyne is out indefmitely with a stress fracture in her right leg. Soccer America's 1993 Rookie of the Year, Cindy Daws, is re­covering from a fractured foot. 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer office may have more invoices lying around for crutches than for soccer balls these days, but Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli isn't wasting time wringing his hands for lost players. Instead, he's focusing on the wealth of players who remain. 
"I told the team the first day that we'll win without them," said Petrucelli. "That sounds harsh, but this team has too much talent, depth, and desire not to win." 
While the loss of an All-Amer­ican and a stolid defender can-


Two-time All-American Ragen Coyne is out indefinitely with a stress fracture in her right leg. 
'1,111~ f)lli.JlNI)f) llf)l\rl .. 
The True National Championship Game 
SilTUUnAY, NOlTJ~)IJJI~U 12, H)!}L1 

Experience the thrill of victory as The Irish crush The Seminoles in Orlando!
From$2!)!) 
Includes: ./ Game Ticket 

./ 2 Nights Hotel ./ Daily Breakfasts ./ Transfers 
Also available: Round-trip flights or deluxe motorcoach packages into Orlando, FL 

-

1-800-983-3663 

.. CHAKTEKCLUBS•SPECIAL EVENTS, INC. ~ i\tlanta 
ATLANTA SPORTS COUNCIL 
ChamberciCommerce 

not have a minor impact on the squad, all other factors--from Petrucelli's first recruiting class coming of age to a schedule which simulates the format of the NCAA tournament-seem to be to Notre Dame's favor. 
When Petrucelli came to Notre Dame four years ago, he :began recruiting women who wanted to do more than just play soc­cer. 
"I recruited players who want­ed to win a national cham­pionship. That's why they're here. And Tiffany Thompson and Jodi Hartwig may not be named All-Americans, but they are soccer superstars, and their attitude effects the under­classmen. Good seniors make good freshmen." 
Strong senior leadership will be needed in a schedule which finds the Irish facing six of the teams in the preseason top twelve. Not only does Notre Dame have a rigorous schedule, but they meet their toughest opponents on the road, in back­to-hack matches during the same weekend. 
"We know we'll have to play the NCAA tournament on the road, winning two games per weekend, and that's the way our schedule is set up, to pre­pare us for that," said Petru­
see SOCCER I page 18 continued from page 24 
unprecedented 16 goals, 20 assists, and 52 points. 
After the season, she was named a first team All-Ameri­can as well as Freshman Player of the Year, a first for the Notre Dame soccer program. And yet much more lies ahead for the young star. 
"Cindy will be the best player on the field every game she plays this year," Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli said. 
That is certainly not a modest statement. The Irish have one of the most difficult schedules in the nation this season, play­ing four of the top seven ranked teams on the road. 
And, in addition to the her opponents, Daws will have to overcome a foot injury which has been nagging her since last winter. She fractured her foot while playing with the United States national team and un­derwent surgery two months later in which a screw was in­serted to help the healing pro­cess. Since that surgery she had not kicked a soccer ball until preseason camp this sum­mer. 
"We played in the spring without her and we were cer­tainly not as explosive," Petru­celli explained. 
"She does so much," he added. "She wins balls in the air, she distributes from the midfield, and she scores goals." 
comes even larger," Irish co­captain Tiffany Thompson said. "She has the ability to step into that role. She's going to be a leader for us right now and in the future." 
"She sets the tempo, the pace, and the attitude of our team," Petrucelli said. "If Cindy's in a good mood, every­one's in a good mood. If Cindy plays well, everyone plays well." 
Daws' foot is still not com­pletely healed, but Petrucelli expects her to be at full strength very soon. 
"She made it through every session during the preseason," he said, "and she's not going to face a test like two-a-days all year." 
"I have pain every day," Daws explained, "but coach and (trainer) Carole (Banda) have been very understanding. I just need to be smart about my injury." 
With that in mind, Daws is ready to work toward the only honor that really matters-the national championship. 
"We have a really good team," she said. "Everyone is optimistic and the way the team is playing I think we're on the way to win the national championship." 
The quest for that title begins tomorrow against Rutgers, and with Cindy Daws anchoring the midfield the Irish have to feel confident in their chances. 


AT~fENTION ALL STUDENTS!!! 
DO YOU WANT TO IMPRESS YOUR FRIENDS AND FAMILY BY TELUNG THEM YOU VOLUNTEER IN THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE AT NOTRE DAME? HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO HAVE FUN AND ASSISTADMISSIONS AT THESAME TIME. TillS VOLUNTEER PRo­GRAM IS RESJPONSIBLE FOR SEVERAL MAJOR RECRUITMENT PROJECTS, AND WE NEED STUDENT VOLUNTEERS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR. IF THIS SOUNDS INTERESTING TO YOU, COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE TO LEARN MORE m 
OJPEN HOUSE: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994 
7:30PM 
ROOM 123 EARTH SCIENCE 
WELCOME BACK 
........a few reminders........ 
Papers, Journals, Study Questions are due ! 
'--The s-s·P'Celehratfon___ September 3 (Saturday) Center for Social Concerns 
The Retreat begins at 5:00 pm on Friday til 5:00pm on Sat. there are a couple of openings WELCOME BACK 

-----------~----~~-­
~--------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
... 

Friday, September 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
• u.s. OPEN 
Garrison rolls on borrowed shoes 
By BOB GREENE 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Ivan Lendl won't be adding to his U.S. Open hardware this year. 
A back injury today forced the three-time champion to retire in his second-round match against Bernd Karbacher of Germany. 
Karbacher was leading 6-4, 7-6 (7-5). 1-0 when Lendl pulled out, but the veteran right-hander had held a 5-0 lead in the second set before his game collapsed. 
In women's second-round matches, defending champion and top-seeded Steffi Graf made quick work of Sandra Cacic after 10th-seeded Zina Garrison Jackson made quick work of a shoe. 
Two points into her match against Argentine Paola Suarez, Garrison Jackson left 
opener became popular Before that. people improvised. using knives. bayonets or a chisel and hammer 
c 
~ 
ro 
J 
c 
E 
1l 
§ 
i Toast d ba~el. 

•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

~.. ..,.t,.._.l'J ~,_-4 ... .....,,..,... 1(#-.,L#-\~ t_;~~ ...~ •, 
u 
c 
rn 
u 
] [ 
E 
j..) 
g 
J 
j..) 
·c 
(I) 
~ 
t! 
d 
~ Blend AdrinK. 
CJpmacan. 

Your choice, 9.99 each. From Hamilton Beach: Power Pierce can opener, hand blender, 5-speed mixer. From Proctor-Silex: Wide-slot toaster, lightweight iron. 
Cl 
t:
·c: 
[
0 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
the court when her shoe fell apart. 
"I didn't have a pa.ir," Garrison Jackson said. "One of the players let me use theirs. I was pretty lucky that there was someone in the locker room with the same size foot." 
With the borrowed shoes, Garrison Jackson defeated Suarez 6-4, 6-3. Garrison. Jackson's borrowed shoes came from Cacic. 
"She said she had a new pair and an old worn-out pair," said Garrison Jackson, who took the old pair. "Once it fmally mold­ed to my foot, it was fine. At the beginning, it kind of felt I was walking like a duck or some­thing." 
Graf made Cacic feel even worse, defeating the 19-year­old Bradenton, Fla., right-han­der 6-0, 6-2. 
In other early matches, No. 11 Amanda Coetzer defeated Eugenia Maniokova of Russia 

CooK a, grilted cheEse sandwich. 


6-2, 6-0; Austrian Judith Wiesner downed Caroline Kuhlman 6-2, 6-2, and Alexia Dechaume-Balleret of France stopped Maria Jose Gaidano of Argentina 7-5, 6-3. 
In men's second-round matches, No. 13 Thomas Muster stopped Maurice Ruah of Venezuela 6-4, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2 and No. 15 Marc Rosset defeat­ed Sweden's Nicklas Kulti 6-4, 6-2, 6-7 (2-7), 6-2. 
On Wednesday, Michael Chang used his speed and Pete Sampras used his power. Chang moved into the third round while Sampras grabbed a second-round spot. "We're not players who can really serve you off the court or blow you off the court," Chang said of his opponent, MaliVai Washington. "It's more or less a chess match. I tried not to take it into the fifth set because I knew he was not going to get tired." 
page 21 

• PRO BASEBALL 
Major league parties reach few compromises 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
Renewed talks, much less a settlement of the baseball strike, didn't seem imminent Thursday. 
As the strike completed its third week, federal mediators didn't see any purpose in more bargaining sessions. 
"There's no news on my end," mediator John Martin said from his office in Boston. "We talk every day with them." 
The only activity Thursday involved additional conflict. With active rosters allowed to expand to 40 on Sept. 1, the Pittsburgh Pirates recalled pitcher Randy Tomlin, who had been on the disabled list at Buffalo of the American Association. The move put the pitcher on strike and halted his $975,000 salary, which comes to $5,328 per day. 
Eugene Orza, the No. 2 offi­cial of the Major League Baseball Players Association, said the union will file both a default notice and a grievance against the Pirates. 
After the union files a default notice, the team would have 10 days to correct the default or risk having arbitrator George Nicolau declare the player a free agent. Nicolau also would decide if the team must pay 
• SPORTS BRIEfS -. 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club 
meeting for all continuing members Mon. Sept. 4 at 7:30, room 222 in the library. If you have questions, call Becky at 4­1383. 
All Challenge U aerobics 
classes begin Wednesday, 
September 7. Remember to 
bring your user ID card.The 
office of Recreational Sports is 
offering the following sports: 
IH baseball (5 pm), IH foot­ball (women -6:45 pm, men -6 pm), IH tennis singles and 
Deter Crime Campaign 
Quality Security & Safety.: Products with Warranty 
-· 
,. 

Secure Computers, Stereos, Apartments Autos, Bikes, & More ($11-:$300) 
; ' 

Ca/1512-218-0159 for Catalog Donation/Sale to ND or SMC 
The Observer is now accepting applications for the following paidpositions: Weekly Illustrators Daily Cartoonist Weekly Political Cartoonist 
Interested persons should be able to work on a daily or weekly basis for the fall semister. For further information call Art Manager Garrett Gray at xl771. 
Tomlin during the period he is on strike. 
Orza said the union also will file a default notice and griev­ance over the Texas Rangers' recall of infielder Jeff Huson, which was announced Wednesday night. · 
Texas put two more players on strike Thursday. recalling outfielder David Hulse from Oklahoma City and purchasing the contract on outfielder Rob Ducey from the Triple A club. Orza said he would speak with the two before deciding how the union will react in their cases. 
Later in the day, the Chicago Cubs announced the recall of pitcher Steve Trachsel from Iowa of the American Association. 
The strike canceled nine more games Thursday, raising the total to 269, nearly 12 per­cent of the season. Major league baseball won't be played on Labor Day for the first time since it became a national holiday in 1894. 
"Nothing has changed of which I am aware," union head Donald Fehr said. 
Richard Ravitch, man­agement's negotiator, said he had a conversation early in the day with John Calhoun Wells, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. 
mixed doubles, freshman swim 
meet, G/F/S baseball (5 pm), 
G/F/S football (7:30 pm), G/F/S 
tennis singles and mixed dou­
bles and softball (campus 16" 
and co-ree) (5:30pm). 
The deadline and captain's 

meetings arES· on Thursday, 
September 8, and times are 
above in parentheses. All 
meetings will-be in the JACC 
auditorium. ; 
There will alS(, be a flag foot­

ball officials meeting the same 
evening at 8 pm in the JACC 
auditorium. 
-::.~ 
·­
... 


----~~----------------------------~~-~---~ 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 2, 1994 
-
• VOllEYBAlL 
Talented freshmen class boosts Irish volleyball 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
The future of Notre Dame Volleyball is as bright as the golden dome that lights up the campus sky. The Irish have added four freshmen to their roster this year, a welcome ad-
Irish 
continued from page 24 
co-captains Nicole Coates and Christy Peters. 
"Nicole and Christy are defi­nitely the leaders of this team. Their experience and intelli­gence seems to carry over onto
• 
the rest of the team." 
With a 1-0 record, the Irish now have their sights set on the Shamrock Invitational, starting tonight with a match against Western Michigan and continuing on Saturday with matches against Illinois­Chicago and Michigan State. 
This should prove to be a baraometer for how far the Irish have progressed since training camp. All three teams should prove to be more com­petitive than Valparaiso. 
"We will face some tough competition in the Shamrock and hopefully will play well," said Coach Brown. "If we can keep our focus like we did tonight, we should fare pretty well." 
And if they put forth the same 
effort as they did last night, 
that's sure to happen. 
Senior Class Cruise Tickets on Sale at LaFortune Info Desk. 
Sept. 22 

$27.00 includes food, beverages, and transportation. 
Limited tickets available. 

four-time AAU All-American se­lection. She played on the Junior National team in both 1992 and '93, and she was con­sidered by many the top volley­ball recruit in the nation. 
Five-foot ten middle blocker Jamie Lee has also put together an impressive list of awards and attributions. She was part of the second team All­American named by the USVBA. In addition, Lee was All-State in her native Washington. 
The third member of the Irish freshmen class is Carey May, a setter from Rancho Santa Fe, California. As one of two setters on the team, May has been placed very quickly into a key role to the Irish suc­cess this season. 
Rounding up this talented young bunch is six-foot middle blocker Molly McCarthy, an­other native hoosier, from Indianapolis. "The biggest adjustment beyond volleyball is being away from home," McCarthy says. 


FROM THE PROOIJCERS OF "THE CRYING GAME" COMES THE STORY THAT ROCKED THE WORLD. SHERYL LEE STEPHEN DORFF IAN HART 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE Friday & Saturday 7:30 and 9:45 pm 
"The environment is totally different," adds May, who found the adjustment a little easier because of teammates Brett Hensel and Christy Peters who attended the same high school as May in sunny California. 
"Everyone on the team was accepting of us and very nice," says Harris. 
For Lee, one of the biggest adjustments is a change in po­sition. She was an outside hit­ter in high school and upon ar­rival in South Bend has been moved to the middle blocker position. All of the girls though are aware of the importance of team unity and are willing to do whatever is necessary and what is best for the team and their fulfilling of a role on the team. 
Each of the four freshmen saw playing time in their sea­son opening victory over Valparaiso, and it was obvious to everyone that the volleyball class of '98 will make a defi­nite impact on the future of Irish Volleyball. 

-
Go Long ...Foot Long! 
-• 

Include a stop at SUBWAY in your pattern to Soldier Field this weekend. 

FRIDAY & SATURDAY SEPT. 2-3 Joyce Center 
• Notre Dame 
• Western Michigan 
• 
Michigan State 

• 
Illinois-Chicago 



FREE FOOD, PRIZES, ENTERTAINMENT! 
dition to the talent and experi­ence of a team who had a ban­ner season last year and looks to their youth to complete the magic formula it will take to match and go beyond last year's performance. 
The class is led by six-foot freshman outside hitter Angie Harris, a native of Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Harris was named first team All-American by both the United States Volleyball Association and USA Today/Mizuno. She was also a 
Friday, September 2, 1994 The Observer· TODAY page 23 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
DAVE KELLETT 
BILL WATTERSON 
001-\T G£T DISCO\JRI\<?.ED. ~0\lR ~ ~0 I G:IT 1\-\E SN't\E R£'5\JLTS 1\RER ~\f'.lG oN. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
14t.i, Ot>.D, l'M ~~~tl{\\~E, A ROBot. G.N 
'i()J G£1 Mt. />. ?11-.T£1-\i;> 
CROSSWORD 
~lli.. \.\ERE IT IS'SOI="A.R. 
\\Cl~S 1\~IJ I \.Ito.~ BEEN. 'tlORI:.\~G ~ \1 A\.L fo..~ ITS ~Ot QIJ\TE KRfECTEO '(Ef, B\JT '(CN <;;t.T T\4E lOg... 


TIGERS PoRE ~'I COM~Oirr\NG. I f>.LWI\'iS ~ALL R\G\-IT 1\SLEE? 
W\4ffi l l\STE~ TO I-lOSSES 
BR£Ai\l\~. 

\~ 
\~ /.,...-::::­
'>-;_.r-: 
ACROSS 28 Postman's 48 Messenger-challenge 
49 Lauder et al. 

1 Grinder 301981 Rolling 51 Unescorted11 Magistrate in 
Stones hit 

Dryden's 52 Brand 
"Absalom and 32 Short-bodied advertised as Achitophel" dog "two mints in 15 Sultry star of "A 34 Franck one" Man and a detective­54 Proceedings Woman" Clovis Desire 
56 Ruckus 16 Western wolf 
Pel 

57 Sharpen, as a 1T Copying, with 35 It won't go knife "after" along for the 
58 Would-be
ride

18 Shake, in a way journe~an 111911 abbr. 
38 Make balance 

61 Actor Mischa 20 Splinter group 39 Reflecting 
62Sponge
reality as a

21 Brown 63 Passe hairstyle 
single unit 

baggers? 
64 Not the reigning 41 Prefix with 22 Old Portuguese champs

metrics 24 Pet nickname 42 Shelf coverings 27 Dockworkers' 441961 fad, with DOWN 
grp. "the" coins 
1 Print media 2 Canine's coat 3 Richie's TV

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
buddy 4Shotorwell 
follower 5 Squeezes (out) 6 Stood up, in 
dialect 7 Walks primly 8 Look like 9 Dawson of 
football 1 o Part of a journey 11 1973 hit·­
Know" 12 Most thuggish 
overexcited 

»v V<lR s1x rms 
w.rs Df..D:> I TI-I~T i\lOSt W£R£ 
1R\JC~ 0!1t~N­S\-I\Fn~ CJt.l 11\£. HIGI\Wfo..~. 

21 Half acoin motto 23 Type of tank 25Ukesome reviews 26 Kirkuk denizen 29Scraps 31 Cat cries 33 Los-, Calif. 35 Enlisted 36Swollen 37 Chef's protector 39 Passage of poetry or music 

40 Depreciate 43Ukesome identities 45Silver­
(cloud seed) 46 Kitchen gadget 47Cosmetic 
preparations 
50 Stone marker 53 Mr. T's real 
name 55 Pretty soon 58 Half the N.F .L.: 
Abbr. 59 Turn-(start making money) 60Tiny bit 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-


• 


The often romanticized image of cowboys and aliens 

TAKE THE KEYS CAll ACAB. TAKE ASTAND.. 
-


fRifNDS DDN'l lH fRifNDS DHIVf DRUNK 
--


-
SPORTS
page 24 
• THE SEASON 
Easy opener for Peters, Irish 

Senior has 9 kills in win over Valpo 
BY BRIAN LUCAS SportS Writer 
The 1994 women's volleyball team got off to a roaring start last night with a 15-2, 15-3, 15-4 vic­tory over Valparaiso. Showcasing their outstanding depth and team­work, the Irish made Valparaiso look out of sync through the entire 
• 
-
match. The match lasted a mere 49 minutes, due mostly to the dominance of the Irish. Everyone on the team saw action, led by Christy Peters' nine kills and Shannon Tuttle's eleven assists. 
"We want to feel very comfort­able using many different lineups." Coach Brown said afterwards. "This match allowed us to use some of our depth and get our younger players some experi­ence." 
Among those getting their first taste of college volleyball were freshmen Angie Harris and Carey May, who had seven kills and seven assists, respectively. First year players Jaimie Lee and Molly McCarthy also saw considerable action. 
Coach Brown thought that the freshmen played well but insisted that the team takes its personality from its upperclassmen, especially 
see IRISH/ page 22 

October  
2  vs. Duke at St. Louis  
7  LOYALA  
LaSALLE  9  WISCONSIN  
at George Mason  14  vs. Washington at Portland  
at William & Mary  16  at Portland  
at Michigan State  21  OHIO STATE  
at Butler  23  DETROIT-MERCY  
- INDIANA CINCINNATI  28 30  at Xavier, OH at Wright State  
vs. North Carolina at St. Louis  Home matches in ALL CAPS  

of note...
-
Irish look for better luck 
See Sports Extra for all of
Chris Petrucelli and the women's soccer team 
tomorrow's Notre Dame football 
look to improve on last season's successes. 
details.

See page 20 



