

Wednesday, January 26, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 76 THE INDEPENDENT NE\!VSPAPER SfiZVINc; NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Clinton addresses social issues El-Ganzouri/Peters take 
By SARAH DORAN 
Saint Mary's election 
Associate News Editor 
By LYNN BAUWENS The winning ticket was
Addressing Congress in his 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor pleased with the support of the 
first State of the Union address, 
student body, according to El­NEWS ANALYSIS Noha El-Ganzouri and Ganzouri. Melissa Peters 
"I want to thank those who
President Clinton offered few 
were elected supported our ticket and the
surprises by echoing his dedi­
by sizable students who stood behind us.
cation to the issues of health­
margin over (We) thank our opponents and
care and welfare reform and a 
Deborah look forward to working with
solution to the nation's crime 
Sheedy and them next year," said El­
crisis. 
Angela Ganzouri. "We hope we can
In keeping with the main 
McNulty for continue to be challenged by
theme of his election campaign, 
Saint Mary's the work that lies ahead." 
Clinton utilized the majority of 
student body "I am really excited about
his speech as a platform for 
president and EI-Ganzouri working with Academic
appealing to Congress and the 
vice-president of academic Council," said Peters, who
nation for the support of his 
affairs. plans to begin implementing
healthcare package, according 
The El-Ganzouri/ Peters tick­aspects of their platform as
to Martin Saiz, assistant profes­
et received 53.5 percent of the soon as they take office. 
sor of government. 
votes in Tuesday's election "First of all, I would like to
"The future of it looks terrible 
while the Sheedy/McNulty tick­implement a class for freshman
as Republicans are dead set 
et received 34.5 percent. 12 and underclassmen to in­
against it," said Saiz. "It looks 
percent of students abstained troduce them to college life,"
like it will be a huge fight and if 
from voting for either ticket, an she said . The proposed one
Republicans hold the party line, 
eight percent increase over last credit course would provide an
there will be no bill to sign or 
year. orientation to campus clubs
veto." 
The Sheedy/McNulty ticket and organizations, library and
Using the speech to convey 
was disappointed with the low computer services, and majors
his opinion of the nation's need 
voter turn out, according to available at the college. 
for a health care proposal, 
Sheedy. El-Ganzouri and Peters will
Clinton made a strong appeal to 
Approximately 30 percent of take office April 1.
both parties. "The problem with welfare is ety must take on personal re­
the student population cast a
"He tried to counter his crit­figuring out finance," said sponsibilities." 
ballot in the election. This
ics by talking about why he be­Betson. The president tackled this 
THE RESULTS
year's turnout was similar to
lieves the nation is in a health Turning to crime, Clinton historically Republican issue by 
How Saint Mary's students voted in yester­
last year, according to 
day's election:
crisis that must be acted on," made a strong appeal to both following it with a transition 
Elections Commissioner
said David Betson, professor of Democrats and Republicans for into rebuilding communities 
Elizabeth Broghammer. 
economics. legislation that would increase and inner-cities, said Saiz. 
"Of course we are somewhat
"Healthcare will be the defin­the amount of police officers on "He bridged his constituency 
disappointed with the election
ing thing of the Clinton streets, impose more stringent pretty well," he said. 
results, but we offer our con­
Presidency," said Saiz. prison sentences for three-time Clinton also devoted speech 
gratulations to Noha and
The President effectively felons, and ban assault time to his impending budget, 
Melissa and wish them best of
linked his call for healthcare weapons. which will be sent to Congress 
luck with their new positions,
reform with his future plans for next month. Stating that the 
particularly with Observer re­
welfare reform, said Saiz. "It was passionate ending budget needs to be cut, the 
lations, " Sheedy said. 
The welfare proposal, which calling for leadership," said President said that he plans to 
Regarding future plans, she
has yet to be introduced, would Betson. "He echoed a new completely eliminate over 100 
said, "I plan to continue to fight
put a limitation on benefits and democratic type of theme by domestic programs and make 
• Noha EtGanzouri/Metissa Peters
to provide students with ample
combine them with new educa­saying that the government propose cuts for 300 programs. 
1& Deborah Sheedy IAngela McNulty
yogurt flavors and salad dress­
tion and welfare training pro­cannot fight crime on its own All in all, the address had a 
• Abstain
ings."
grams. and that each member of soci-social policy agenda, said Saiz. 



SMC government involves many facets 
By LYNN BAUWENS Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Student Government at Saint Mary's is a 
multifaceted organization that fulfills the 
mission of the college by responding to the 
needs of students. 
The three levels of government interact 
to improve all aspects of student life-acad­
emic, social, and life in the five residence 
halls. The Board of Governance facilitates 
communication between all members of 
the College community and makes formal 
recommendations on issues and policies, 
according to the Student Leadership 
Manual. The Student Body President 
heads the three branches and presides 
over BOG meetings. 
The Vice-President for Academic Affairs 
presides over the Student Academic 
Council. The council is comprised of stu­
dent representatives from each department 

junior Brian
and four committees. The Student Activity 
Coughlin and Walsh junior
Coordinator is the third member of the 
Maria Capua;
executive board who oversees Student 
•Morrissey junior Bryan

Activities Board. SAB programs· all events 
C~rbett and Breen·Phillips
and activities sponsored by student govern­
junior Karen DuBay;
ment throughout the school year, accord­
· •Morrissey junior David
ing to Jill Hotek, the current coordinator. 
. HungeUng and· Fisher junior 
In the past, the coordinator of SAB was a 
. . · Orsagb; and

third member on the elected ticket for 
•Howard junior Erin King

president and vice-president. Beginning 
and Sorin junior Deitz Lefort.
last year, the position was filled through an 
Student Activities. ments within the halls and acts as a liaison 
The candidates will debate

application process to ensure that the most 
on Tuesday. Feb. 1 in the
The Residence Hall Association addresses between Hall Councils and BOG. The elect­
qualified candidate received the re­
LaFortune Ballroom at 7 p.m.
the social and practical concerns of resi­ed president of RHA sits on the BOG.
sponsibilities. 
dents in all five resident halls, according to The class governments work together 
Tbe election will be held on
"One needs a good amount of experience 
the Student Leadership Manual. The newly with BOG to be a "voice for (the class)," 
7, and a runoff will take

programming and budgeting," according to 
organized branch of student government according to Janeen Gillig, president of the 
· o~ feb..9ifnecessary.

Marlene Johnson, Assistant Director of 
works on policy proposals and improve-sophomore class. 



INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Dalloway's: an 
alternative for 
Saint Mary's 
A small white building sits quietly next to Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's camouflaged by the enor­mous piles of winter snow. On most days, the Clubhouse is silent, with only an occasional meeting or activity, but every once 
La F in a while a miracle hap-. ura erguso~ pens. Something more Assistant News Editor 
exciting than an Irish football national champi--------­onship or any hall formal-the Clubhouse becomes Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse. 
The building itself may not change but the life within its walls take a drastic flip. Student vol­unteers make coffee, cappuccino and sell juices to the music loving masses who venture out into the cold winter winds to watch their favorite campus band. 
Electricity mixed with music, laughter, and caffeine runs through the audience and musi­cians while a cloud of cigarette smoke lingers high in the air. The floor pounds with the bass from the amps and nearly every foot in the room is tapping to the beat of the music. 
On rare weekends this scene comes to life at Saint Mary's but it doesn't happen nearly as often as it should. 
For several years, students at Saint Mary's, particularly student body leaders, have b~en brainstorming to find a way to make Samt Mary's a more social campus. Their goal is. to facilitate a way for both Notre Dame and Samt Mary's students to relax and socialize on week­ends without always going to Notre Dame or off-campus. They wanted to create a place unique to Saint Mary's. They succeeded when Dalloway's opened its doors. 
Judging from past years, especially last year, the Coffeehouse was quite a success. Often the floor was crowded with coffee drinking music lovers while Saint Mary's own band, Sister Chain, energetically strummed acoustic guitars. Other campus bands from the school across the street also entertain the Dalloway's crowd. 
But the past year has been a different story. There were only a couple of nights last term when live bands could be heard from outside the Coffeehouse walls. On too many weekends the smell of fresh coffee mixed with cigarette smoke only lingered in the imagination of the local music lovers. It is unfortunate that this happened because Dalloway's is a great place to hang out and the perfect setting to check out the campus music scene. 
Last weekend, Dalloway's opened it's doors to students once more. The Notre Dame band, True North (a crazy bunch), provided the tunes and plenty of coffee and cappuccino was on hand. Like last year, every chair was filled at the peak hour and spirits were high. 
It was good to know that Dalloway's was not dead. And it was equally good to know that many students from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame came out to enjoy the music and, by their presence, encourage more events at Saint Mary's. 
We can still make the Coffeehouse into a place of good music and good company. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production Liz Foran Susan Marx Beth Regan Chel)'l Moser 
Sports Accent Tim Seymour Matt Carbone Lisa Monaco Lab Tech Macy H ueckel 
Graphics Brendan Regan 
Kennedy, Jr., to host "Heart ofthe City" 
Hunk-about-town John F. Kennedy Jr. is coming to TV this spring, as host of a local series about unsung heroes. Kennedy will introduce three or four segments on each half-hour edition of "Heart of the City," which will air on WNYC-TV, a PBS affiliate. Kennedy, unemployed since leaving the Manhattan district attorney's office in July, is doing the job pro bono. "He's .. already taped a few of the introductions," stati?n publi­cist Judith Weiss said Tuesday. "He's been ternfic. He's made suggestions. He's happy to be able to help people who are helping others." One of the segments is ab?ut an organization that promotes bicy_cle .tra~sportatwn, a familiar subject to Kennedy, an avtd btcycl~st. Other sub­jects include a group of corporate profe~sw~als who try to raise the self-esteem of homeless ktds m Brooklyn shelters and a program in which retirees on Staten Island teach prisoners to read. The series will air for six consec­utive weeks, beginning March 23. 
Denied Powerball players settle claims 
INDIANAPOLIS 

The Hoosier Lottery announced a settlement Tuesday with two players whose $100,000 tickets in the multistate Powerball were ruled invalid because they were pur­chased illegally from a broker. The lottery agreed to pay $50,000 each to Scott Peterson of Eagan. Minn., and John Wall of Atlanta. Their attorneys received $10,000 each. Powerball operates in 14 states and the District ?f Columbia. The Hoosier Lottery manages the game m Indiana. Peterson and Wall agreed to drop their claim that they were wrongfully denied payment when they matched five numbers, but missed the Powerball, in the July 7 drawing. Second-prize tickets are worth $100,000. "They didn't have to pay us $50,000," Pete~son said at a news conference. "I think the settlement 1s completely fair." Jack Dillon, executive director of the Hoosier Lottery, said the Illinois ticket agency. that sold the in_valid tickets for Indiana Powerball, Umted States Lottery Group, should be held responsible, not Wall and Peterson. 
Milk offsets bone loss in coffee drinkers 
CHICAGO 

Drinking milk regularly can offset bone loss linked to longtime coffee drinking in older women•. re~earchers said. Previous research showed that caffeme mcreases urinary excretion of calcium. A lack of calcium can lead to osteoporosis, a progressive thinning of bon~s most common in post-menopausal women. That doesn t mean older women should give up coffee, the researchers from the University of California. San Diego, reported in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association. "If you're going to drink your coffee, eat your calcium," said co-author Sharon Edelstein. The study involved questioning 980 post-menopausal women ages SO to 98 years about their lifet~me dietary habits. The density of their hip bones and spme bones was test­ed. Women who consumed two or more cups of coffee daily and at least one glass of milk a day for about 40 years had bone density 6.5 percent higher than women who drank two cups of coffee each day and didn't drink milk, Edelstein said. 
Philadelphia Latino newspaper firebombed 
PHILADELPHIA 

A Latino newspaper that has crusaded against ~r~g dealers and police brutality was firebombed, authontles said. The pre-dawn fire Monday caused an esti~ated $10,000 damage to desks, chairs and files at the ofltces of 

NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-WeatherQ!> forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 26.
Wedni!Sday, Jan. 26 
Accu· Wealher <> forecasi for dayiime condiiions and high Iemperaiures 
Alook at crime, 
guns and prisons 
ln~u.s. 
Violence in America: A main focus of President Clinton's State of the Union address to Congress yesterday. 
the weekly paper Community Focus. No one was injured. "It appeared that someone had thrown a Molotov cocktail through a side window," Fire Department spokesman Michael Leak said. "The contents of the bottle splashed on a desk and a wall and started the fire." Police hadn't identified any suspects, Officer Ben Frazier said. "Somebody was seeking revenge on us," Publisher Efrain Roche said Tuesday. "Nobody is going to silence us." Most of the editorial work is done on the second floor. which sustained only smoke damage. The paper is print­ed elsewhere. Roche said it will be published as usual Thursday Tor door-to-door distribution to more than 16,500 homes. Street sales of the English-and Spanish­language paper boost overall circulation to 20,000. 
Doctors criticize children's sedative sucker 
WASHINGTON 
A drug manufacturer is preparing to sell a rasp~erry­flavored narcotic lollipop designed to relax children before surgery. But the government, which gave its approval to the drug last year. was as.ked Tuesday ~o reverse the decision. In a petition, a pnvate group sa1d the notion of putting an anesthetic into candy is "need­lessly risking the lives of American children." The drug, to be marketed by Abbott Laboratories, is a candy con­taining fentanyl, a narcotic that h~s been us~d in ~at~h form for three years for treatmg chrome pam m advanced cancer patients. Before that, it was injected for pain. "The lollipops smell like candy. _look like candr; they are candy," Dr. Sidney Wolfe, dtrector of Pubhc Citizen's Health Research Group. told a news conference. "It is a setup for children being killed," he said. The lol­lipops, are to be marketed by Abbott Laboratories under the trade name Fentanyl Oralet. The drug is both a seda­tive and pain reliever. 
..........._ .....-..,.... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L Ea ESJ [I!) 0 IZ] 8 {) ~ U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa Assoc~a'ed Pmss 
H L Denver 31 15 New York 29 21 
Friendswood 63 58 Philadelphia 29 21 AllanIa 53 46 Los Angeles 60 47 Phoenix 62 41 Baiiimore 32 24 Miami 80 66 St. Louis 36 31 Bosion 19 01 Michigan Cily 25 19 San Francisco 55 42 Chicago 28 21 Minneapolis 21 07 SeaHie 48 36 Dallas 56 37 New Orleans 72 62 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

By DAVID TYLER not just possible, but necessary, mans," revealed Toth, .who News Writer according to Schick. brought along with him and "Man probably started out as example of a crude tool fash­The technology of early man a scavenger, so it is important ioned by a chimp. was not just a bunch of sticks for him to find and secure his· and stones, but a whole system nutrition quickly," Schick stat­The two major subspecies of of tools with many varied uses, ed. Homo Sapiens, Homo erectus according to anthropologists and Homo habilis used and dis­Nick Toth and Kathy Schick of Tools made specifically for carded the tools quite freely, the Indiana University Center scraping animal hides and for according to Toth. for Research into the butchering and dismembering Fragments unearthed in a Anthropological Foundations of animals were extremely impor­heap of animal bones, lead Technology (CRAFT) at a lec­tant, according to Schick. Schick and Toth to discount the ture yesterday. "These allowed humans to ritual properties assigned to recover their food much faster tools by movies and television. Toth and Schick explained than his animal competitors," that their twenty years of said Schick. ' A significant problem in con­research in Africa, Europe and ducting research is not discov­Asia with well-known Toth and Schick believe that ering specimens of early tools, Anthropologists Richard Lekke these tools began to function as but deciphering their purpose, and Glen Isaac led them to "Synthetic Biological Organs." according to Toth and Schick. believe that ancient man had Where a hyena needs its crush­They consulted with Stone Age more intelligence than popular ing teeth and jaws to consume tribes in New Guinea, but found culture gives them credit. the highly valuable protein and experimentation the easiest "Protohumans, made tools as fat in animal bones, man could way to learn. early as 2.5 million years ago," use his hammer and anvil Toth and Schick have made said Toth. "They could make a rocks. countless tools themselves and number of tools well and in a even butchered wilderbeasts relatively short period of time." The tools also help separate and elephants in their quest to early man from his primate rel­discover the effectiveness of As the ancestors of mankind atives like the chimpanzee. man's early tools. began to evolve, so did the spe­While chimpanzees have been cialization of their tools. The observed using tools, "they do They offered this view of our development of the hand, not have the appreciation for ancestors yesterday afternoon smaller teeth and a larger geometry and aesthetics that in a lecture entitled "The Dawn brain made tool specialization  we see in the tools of protohu- Fort Wayne says more violence is likely in East Central Europe. of Technology."  
Social reforms remain Misztal. East Central Europe was  The Observer/laura Grendahl Professor of sociology and anthropology Bronislaw Misztal of IU-PU at peaceful  
By ROB ADAMS News Writer Many optimistic scholars be­lieve that the social reforms of East Central Europe will con­tinue to go on peacefully, but the reforms will more likely turn violent, said Bronislaw Misztal, professor of sociology and anthropology at Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne, at a lecture yes­terday. "As we move from this era of peaceful reform to the new stage of post-communism, there  is no evidence to support that it will continue peacefully," said History teaches us that doing away with powerful states is usually not peaceful, according to Misztal, but the revolution in unique because in many cases the state was unaffected by the sparse movements which oc­curred. "Communism finished itself off through what I call social change by default," Misztal he said. said. "What Although some social move­Central Europe was a revolu­ments may have precipitated tion and it was peaceful," said the fall of communism, most Misztal, "but the fact that it be­had virtually no effect on the gan peacefully does not war­fall due to their lack of a solid, rant that the conclusion will be universal base, according to peaceful as well." Misztal. The lecture, entitled "There was no one move­"Nonviolent Social Movements ment, strategy, or agenda," and Transition to Democracy in Misztal said, "so it is hard to Eastern Central Europe," was attribute this change to one held yesterday afternoon in the cause." · Hesburgh Center for Misztal cites the lack of his­International Studies torical continuity as a major Auditorium.  reason that the states of East Central Europe have ceased to become stable. "Western European nations have the advantage of historical continuity," he said. "They can search deep into their history." Communism, however, caused a major rift in between the past and the present, as if the past did not exist, according to Misztal. "Many have been struggling to regain the historicity which was previously denied them," happened in East  

----~---~---­
Wednesday, January 26, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Stone age tools have many uses 



Sophomores! 
Interested in beinJJ the JPW Chairperson? 
Pick up applications at the LaFortune Info Desk Jan. 22-26 Applications Due Jan. 27 

Women seek refuge in barn 
DEEPAK SHARMA Associared Press 
BAGRIAN, India 
Four women have been hid­ing for nearly a month in a barn behind a farmhouse in a Punjab village, ashamed to show their faces. 
They're afraid of how their families will react, now that their foreheads have been tat­tooed with the word "pickpock­et." 
And they fear police retal­iation, since they went to a court seeking compensation for plastic surgery to remove the brand they say was made by police. 
"It would have been better if they had shot us." Parmeshwari Kaur, 47, said Saturday, her forehead covered by a wool scarf. 
The women said they were branded in December because the police superintendent of the city of Amritsar, Sukhdev Singh Chinna, wanted to settle per­sonal scores with them. 

A police officer wrote the word with a ballpoint pen on their foreheads and a tattooist engraved it with a small elec­tric drill, while the policemen stood by, laughing and joking, the women said. 
The police version, which most people don't believe, is that the women were tattooed by angry victims of the pick­pockets. 
The alleged tattooing by the police has revived a national outcry against the often illegal treatment by security forces in Punjab state, the scene of a 10­year insurgency for an indepen­dent homeland for Sikhs. 
It is the first reported tat­tooing as a punishment for crime in India. 
Meanwhile, the women are holed up in the barn, hidden by some sympathetic neighbors. 
"We cannot visit anyone in our village or any of our rela­tives," said Parmeshwari Kaur. 
Gurdev Singh, 45, said she and the other three suspects were beaten by officers before they were branded. 

They have petitioned the Punjab High Court for com­pensation to undergo plastic surgery. The court has ordered a medical examination to con­firm the tattooing. 
All four women belong to an ethnic tribe called Sansi, whose members traditionally lived off burglaries and other petty crimes. 
"We are paying the price for belonging to the Sansi commu.. nity," said Gurdev Singh. 
The women were arrested Dec. 8 in the Sikh holy city of Amritsar, 135 miles from Bagrian, and held in custody until Dec. 16, when they were freed on bail. 
The tattooing was wi'dely reported in the national press. Editorial writers and commen­tators said it added a new dimension to the oppression of women in this male-oriented society. 

Troops leave sooner than expected 
By THOMAS WAGNER Associared Press 
MOGADISHU, Somalia 
Discouraged U.S. troops are withdrawing from Mogadishu's streets faster than expected and moving to the heavily guarded seaport and airport to await ships and planes for the trip home. 
Two months before the U.S. military is scheduled to finish removing its 5,300 soldiers from the capital, the sand dunes and beaches at the air­port are crowded with tents. 
Most U.S. bases and strong­points around the city have been turned over to soldiers from other countries who are staying in Somalia as U.N. peacekeepers. 
The American soldiers, the backbone of the operation, must finish withdrawing by March 31, along with their heli­copters, howitzers, armored personnel carriers and anti­tank missiles. Many people believe that will leave U.N. forces far more susceptible to attacks by Somalis. 
Somali militias, which appear to be rearming in Mogadishu, already have taken over four posts that the reorganizing U.N. forces abandoned. 

On Tuesday, a Somali child threw a hand grenade at the entrance of the Wahiliye Hotel 10 minutes after U.S. diplomat Stevenson Mcilvaine left follow­ing a meeting with an ally of Ali Mahdi Mohamed, whose men control northern Mogadishu. The boy fled, and seven Somali civilians were wounded. 
At the airport, many U.S. sol­diers appear discouraged by a mission that went from a suc­cessful humanitarian operation that ended a famine to battles in the streets of southern Mogadishu when they were put in the role of policemen trying to arrest the faction leader who controls that sector, Mohamed Farrah Aidid. 
Many believe that when their friends and families think of Somalia, they do not recall images of Marines carrying food to starving children. Instead, they picture a Somali mob dragging the body of an American soldier through the streets last Octobe~ 
"I think a lot of people are going to think nothing was 
JUNIORS TO: All Juniors Planning to Apply to Health Professional Schools FIRST MEETING DATE: WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1994 TIME: 7:00PM PLACE: 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL PLEASE MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO ATTEND  

Subway has hot Italian subs. 
(You got a problem with that?) 
We're talking real hot Italian Subs here. Like the spicy Pizza Sub, heany Meatball, and Italian Steak. All smothered with Carm's Marinara -authentic sauce 

,l 
from a recipe by our founder's own mother! Six-inch Subs stan at only 


$1.69. 

SAVE $1.00 ON I BUY AFOOTLONG : ANY REGULAR : & MEDIUM DRINK, I FOOTLONG!!! I GET A2ND FOR 99¢: 
~ll:JII. : ..... . ..l l . : 
I Not good with any other discount 01' 1 Not good with any other dlacount 01' I1 offer. One coupon per customer, 1 otler. One coupon per customer, 1 per visit Expires February 28, 1994 per visit Expires February 28, 1994 •
I 
• 

accomplished here because this country is still in a state of dis­array," said Cpl. Dennis D. Hill, 23, of Baltimore, sitting near the helicopters he and his bud­dies use to keep a lid on Mogadishu by flying over it day and night. 
Things return to normal after recent earthquake 
By NIKO PRICE Associared Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Commuters returned to traf­fic jams today and most stu­dents headed back to school after a week off forced on them by the city's earthquake. Overnight rain prompted many quake refugees to go indoors despite fear of aftershock, and thousands of others awoke in soggy tent cities. 
"What's happening to California?" said Juan Galvez, staying in one of the six tent cities in the hard-hit San Fernando Valley. "It's too much now. The earthquake, the riots. the fires and now the rain." 
The rain, however, moved out of the area before dawn today. There were no immedi­ate reports of major· mudslides on hillsides stripped by fires. 
All but 65,000 of the Los Angeles school district's 640,000 students were due back in class today, meaning more traffic on and around the crippled freeways. 
This morning's inbound com­mute around the smashed Interstate 5 junction north of the city was backed up about 90 minutes on Highway 14 as the rush hour geared up at 7 a.m., said Officer Brad Davis of the California Highway Patrol. 
In Washington, White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers told reporters today that the administration will submit a proposed supplemental appro­priations bill requesting "slightly higher" than $5 bil­lion in emergency earthquake funds for California. Some $900 million in contingency funds already has been released, Myers said. 
People in Southern California "should feel very good about it," Sen. Barbara Boxer, D­Calif., said as she emerged from a meeting about the administration proposal. California lawmakers said they were optimistic that Congress would pass an emergency aid bill before mid-February. 
At Tent No. 48 on a baseball field in West Hills, Guillermo Ibarra was one of about 20 occupants trying to stay dry during the downpour that began shortly after nightfall Monday. 
"The water comes in under the walls," said Ibarra, leaning his mattress against a pole in a fruitless attempt to keep it out of puddles forming on the packed-dirt floor. "I guess I'll have to sleep standing up." 

NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY Now TAKING APPliCATIONS FoR 


'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 


232-8256
• 

. ··~~······ .................................-..... 
········----~-. 

-~------......,...__-~--~~~---------~ --­
-----, 
j 
"''• 

Wednesday, January 26, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Melendez to play guitar BOG discusses upcoming lecture 
By PATTI CARSON her along with two students to fordable and reputable gradu­
tonight in LaFortune 
News Writer attend the conference. ate schools. 
In Other Business: •Board members talked By ANALISE TAYLOR hood because he has no arms, The Board of Governance •BOG president Mary Beth about the NASCCU (National NewsWrirer so moved the pope that he (BOG) discussed a special Wilkinson approached the ad­Association of Catholic Colleges jumped from the stage to ministration about graduate and Universities) conference1:Ht:!illII]IBn!JiiWM!H• school guidance concerning for the 1994-95 academic year. 
Over six years ago, armless embrace and kiss Melendez. 
Sesquicentennial conference at academic programs and finan­The theme for the conference is 
guitar player Tony Melendez Performing publicly is not 
sang for the pope. new to the talented player. last night's meeting. cial aid for students planning to that of gender issues. Today, he sings for the ad­Melendez performs weekly for "Play of the Mind: the study beyond college. "The board is not com­his parish in Chino, Calif. Catholic Women's College Suggestions were made by pletely comfortable making de­
ministration, faculty, and stu­
Experience" will be held at board members for improve­cisions at this time," said
dents of the University of Notre The student government 
heard about Melendez from Saint Mary's from Feb. 3-6. ment of the current system. Wilkinson. "We will discuss
Dame. 
"I think it's inspirational to Father Pat Sullivan, according Thirteen Catholic women's col­Members also discussed ways the conference in more detail leges will send a faculty mem-to promote the search for af-at future meetings." 
see someone who has does to Murphy. 
done so much with what he "Father Sullivan met Tony's has been given," said Stephen brother Jose last year," Murphy Murphy, Speaker said. "I thought his religious 
Musical event in works for B.P. 
Commissioner for student gov­fervor made it especially ernment. appropriate to invite him to By JOSLIN WARREN to raise money for the Catholic pansion route to Corby's in the 
Melendez was born without Notre Dame." NewsWrirer Worker House, a shelter for future. arms, the result of his mother The free concert will be held battered women and their chil­• The Student Union Board taking the drug thalidomide at 7 p.m. today in the Judy's Jam, a musical even dren. will be sponsoring Winterfest during pregnancy. LaFortune Ballroom. Coffee, sponsored by Breen Phillips, is "It is a really good charity from February 10-13. A snow 
The part-time choral direc­hot chocolate, and cookies will going to be held on Feb. 9 from that doesn't get much support. sculpture competition between tor, turned down for the priest-be served. We've raised $1300 in the past groups of 10-15 people from
l!t:!!IQjjfi!IU~ifJBniW~II 
and we look to raise more this each dorm will be one of many 7-2 a.m. in the Lafortune year," Hutchinson said. events. Ballroom, announced Breen In other council news: • Cavanaugh Hall will be 
Phillips Rector Judy Hutchinson • Weekend Wheels will re­putting on the play The Odd during the meeting last night. sume operation this weekend Couple this Thursday, Friday Various campus musical yet will not be picking up at as and Saturday at 8:10p.m. 
21st Annual Summer Program 
ND-SMC 
groups will be performing at many sites as last semester, • Fischer Hall will be holding the event which is being held although there is talk of an ex-a forum called "The Right to
Students 

Die" on Wednesday. Feb. 2 at 7p.m..
LONDON ROME 

• Those interested in volun­teering for The Aids Quilt
May 18 -June 17 June 12-July 11 
Presentation at Stepan Center from February 25-27 can at­
Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, 
tend training sessions on Scotland and France 
Germany, and 
February 3 at 7 p.m. in Lafortune Ballroom. 
Switzerland 

Courses offered in BIOLOGY, BUSINESS & ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN, LITERATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, SOCIOLOGY 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING-February 8 
6:30 pm Carroll Hall • Free Pizza • Past students and faculty participants will be present. 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

A college education takes $$$. students majoring in engineering, Don't send out an SOS. U 2 can get science, business, nursing and a the $$$ you need with a merit-E~DERs~ number of other majors. B 1 of based Army ROTC Scholar-' IP them. Army ROTC scholar­ship. l,OOO's of scholarships ships are A+. They're as good 

Only one 5 bedroom house left! Fully Furnished Security Systems
Wash e rs/D rye rs 
Call Laurie McKelvey 287-4989 


are awarded every year to as Au. 

US LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00PM OST: $25.00 INCLUDES LIFT TICKET, RENTAL AND TRANSPORT $17.00 LIFT TICKET AND TRANSPORT ONLY ETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 PM 
ARMYROTC 
EGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE 
THE SMARTESTCOWGE 
REGISTER AND PAY IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
COURSEYOU CAN TAKE. 
FOR MORE INFO, CALL 631-6100
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 

DEADLINE: JANUARY 26 
---~ ~·-~~ ~ ­
page 6 

The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 26, 1994 


Spacecraft launched on Jackson settles suit out ofcourt 
By JEFF WILSON undetermined time, his attor­counties began a criminal
exploration mission 
Associated Press neys said. probe that has continued for "Michael Jackson has main­five months. No charges have Associated Press The mission is designed to SANTA MONICA, Calif. tained his innocence since the been filed. 
test the detection capabilities of Michael Jackson settle.d a beginning of this matter and An out-of-court settlement in 
VANDENBERG AIR FORCE the sensors, using the Earth, child molestation lawsuit now, since this matter will soon the civil case could severely 
BASE, Calif. moon and Geographos as tar­Tuesday on terms that left his be concluded, he still maintains diminish the state's criminal 
An unmanned spacecraft gets. 14-year-old accuser "very that innocence," Jackson's probe because, in California, roared off a launch pad Clementine will stay in happy" and the singer pro­attorneys said in a statement. victims of sexual abuse can't be Tuesday on a seven-month Earth's orbit for about seven claiming his innocence. "The resolution of this case is forced to testify against their journey to shoot the moon as days, then begin a looping tra­Terms of the out-of-court in no way an admission of guilt will. part of the first U.S. lunar jectory to enter the moon's agreement were confidential, by Michael Jackson. In short, "There's little reason the exploration mission in 21 orbit on Feb. 20. although a source put it at least he is an innocent man who boy's parents would want to years. $10 million. does not intend to have his see their child exposed to pub­
Clementine I will use sensors The mission is the first lunar The settlement probably career and his life destroyed by lic scrutiny and media scrutiny built by the Defense exploration since the Apollo could end the criminal in­rumors and innuendo." in a criminal trial," UCLA law Department for missile defense moon missions ended 21 years vestigation, experts said, but The lawsuit filed in professor Peter Arenella said. to make pictures of the moon ago. The last, Apollo 17, landed Jackson's problems were far September alleged that "It's very likely the boy won't and an asteroid called in December 1972. from over. Jackson, 35, committed sexual want to cooperate, and the Geographos. Clementine will spend two "I am very happy with the battery, seduction, willful mis­state lacks the authority to 
Data collected when months in two different orbits resolution of this matter," said conduct, intentional infliction of force him to cooperate by Clementine points its in­around the moon, mapping the Larry Feldman, attorney for the emotional distress, fraud and threatening him with con­struments at the moon next entire surface. boy, now 14. The boy, Feldman negligence in a campaign to en­tempt." month and Geographos next The spacecraft will then leave told reporters, was also "very tice the boy last year. Santa Barbara County District summer will be merely a lunar orbit on a four-month happy with the resolution of Based on the boy's alle­Attorney Thomas Sneddon Jr. byproduct of a $75 million-plus trip to Geographos, passing this matter." gations, authorities in Los refused to discuss the county's mission primarily intended to within 75 miles of the asteroid Angeles and Santa Barbara Jackson criminal investigation. test new defense technology. on Aug. 31. Feldman said nothing in the 
The mission is expected to settlement pertained to the 

The key instruments are five end after seven months. criminal probe. He also didn't advanced sensors designed for rule out having the boy testify detecting and tracking missiles, The Clementine I cost $55 in any criminal proceeding. said the Defense Department's million, and the Titan and "Nobody has bought anyone's Ballistic Missile Defense other launch costs added silence," Feldman said. Organization, which jointly another $20 million to the mis­"We have been talking to the sponsored the mission with sion, said Lt. Col. Michael district attorney all along," he NASA. Stepp. Stepp did not know the said. "The district attorney has 
A two-stage Titan 2G booster, cost of running the mission, but taken all of our evidence." a converted ballistic missile, said it was not included in the Feldman and Jackson at­lifted Clementine off at 8:34 other figures. torneys Johnnie Cochran and 
a.m. and sent it southwestward The mission is the Defense Howard Weitzman met private­over the Pacific. Department's first deep space ly in the chambers of Superior 
"It went up and it's out of experiment, meaning the Court Judge David Rothman sight and it's making history," spacecraft will leave the earth's before the announcement. said Sgt. Kirby Lindner. orbit. "We signed off on the deal. 
Contact with the spacecraft Built by the Naval Research That was it," Feldman said. was achieved several hours Laboratory, Clementine is less Jackson didn't issue any later as planned. "Everything's than 4 feet in diameter and just statement but insists he didn't going fine," said Tech. Sgt. Joel over 6 feet in length. Including do anything wrong. He. will Ragan. fuel it weighs 933 pounds. speak out about the case at an 
TTE 
N H 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CoNDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MiLE FRoM NoTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 26, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager.....................Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor.............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither inscirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoim 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 Spotts 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

JOSH OZERSKY I, FARRINGTON 
Beavis and Butthead: Cultural critics and music video saviors 
This column kept me up an heh. They did the right thing." ed eating its own tail. A lot of other people are, too. like children, with their weak, extra 15 minutes or so last They really did. Nothing But I don't really care about The main reason, of course, is small bodies and dispropor­night. I was trying to decide could have been smarter than MTV and its cultural master­that their language rings so tionately large heads. (In real whether to write a) a lengthy putting Beavis and Butthead on minding. I just can·~ get true; MTV pulled off a real im­life, naturally, kids don't have diatribe against the Office of MTV. The videos have gotten enough Beavis and Butthead. perial coup by capturing so ac­disproportionate heads, unless University Computing, who re­more ridiculous every year. Big Their voices fill my head. curately the idealized language deformed. But you need big cently handed me the mitten; b) stars like Bono have to make When boring people talk to me of its real audience. Another faces on TV, so Beavis and a comic parody of Father themselves look like outpatient in the library I look at them and part of it is that Beavis and Butthead have to be hydro­Charles Griffin's ever-popular psychopaths in order to make hear that hoarse, frantic Butthead look so real. For one cephalic. The Simpsons, you'll Letters to a Lonely God feature; an impression. Tom Petty flirts "Change it! Change it!" Then I thing, they are genuinely ugly, notice, solves the problem by or c) a xenophobic rant against with necrophilia in his latest hear that deeper, self-assured, but not in the inhuman way of having everybody talk drawn Canadians. But remembering video; Madonna, for her part, "Shut up, Assmunch." Half of The Simpsons. They just look from the waist or chest up.) all the nut jobs who, immune to has nothing le.ft to do, and so the male student body here like ugly kids. Then there is the relationship irony, called me up and threat­has disappeared completely looks like Beavis and That's another thing: they between Beavis and Butthead. ened me at home last semester, into her fashion designers and Butthead's gym teacher; half really do look like kids. You're always getting new nu­I decided against all three. And art directors. So MTV puts the faculty looks like Beavis and Generally, cartoon children are ances of it. Davf) Letterman, besides, I couldn't get Beavis Beavis and Butthead on to say Butthead's old neighbor. Many just miniature adults. Beavis sharp guy that he is, remarked and Butthead out of my mind. "Uh ... is this a commercial?" girls here look like Stuart. I'm and Butthead, especially when on this to Mike Judge, B & B's 
I often thank the guiding and MTV has once again avoid-obsessed. they are shown full-figure, look creator: "Butthead has a little 
bit on the ball. But Beavis,
minds at MTV for Beavis and 1----t--------------------,-------------1
Butthead, particularly for their decision to put them on late. I usually fall asleep to their voic­es. just as I used to wake up to Howard Stern's. If Chicago was a civilized place, I could do both now and be in low-culture heaven. Of course, MTV isn't infallible -the fact that they dropped the gorgeous and ul­tra-cool Duff and replaced her with frumpy, mindless Kennedy attests to that -and some crit­ics have suggested that they have subverted themselves by making Beavis and Butthead stars. 
After all. who can watch videos now and not think of Beavis and Butthead? I can't hear a note of Bon Jovi and not think of Butthead saying, "Uh .. .is that Bridget Fonda?" Or "Uh...they must have known how much this music sucked ... so they put in all these naked chicks." There you have the MTV corporate philosophy in a nutshell. 
But the network isn't really threatened. Beavis speaks for American youth everywhere when he replies, "Yeh! Heh 


nothing -he's just gum on Butthead's shoe." So like Dick and Perry,
r3tJ 1v t;:J. 
Holmes and Watson, and other smart-and-dumb pairs, there's a continual inequality. Beavis is so stupid that he often doesn't even know when Butthead is insulting him. "Yeh! Heh heh," he'll say, then correct himself: "I mean, shut up, Butthead!" The two of them fall into perfect unison whenever the right cue comes along "Yes! Yes!" "This is cool!" "Da Da, Da Da, DUH­DADUHDADUHDA!" (power chords). 
That moment of shared re­sponse is what everyone loves about Beavis and Butthead. You'd get sick of them, l think, if all they did was argue. It's because they both know so well what sucks and what doesn't that we are drawn to them. Deep down, we all lust after unanimity. Perfectly reflexive cultural intuition is cool. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

ACCENT 
page 8 Wednesday, January 26, 1994 
Theatre Works Productions brings improvisational comedy to Michiana 
By MATT CARBONE "It sounds strange, but there are a few basic rules to Accent Writer improv," said Cotter about what would seem to be teaching the spontaneous. "Never deny what's going on 
Ti
aching improvisational comedy. It sounds and don't ask questions." paradoxical, but to hear Kerry Cotter tell it, it These are the tenets of improv which Cotter passes actually seems reasonable. on to his pupils, who meet for three hours every Cotter is the director of Improv at Theatre Saturday for ten weeks. Works, an arm of Theatre Works, a community-area After these building blocks of improv are imparted, acting troupe which has been performing for over a Cotter then works with the class "on adding more com­year at the 100 Center in Mishawaka. plex structures to the comedy, developing their improv 
Begun in July, Theatre Works has skills," he said. been performing a wide range of dramas Improv classes began in early Octoper, with the stu­and comedies, from "Cat on a Hot Tin dents performing every weekend at the 100 Center 
c: 
· 
Roof" to Sam Shepard's dark comedy since November. A new round of classes will be offered "True West," to "Tartuffe," by the seven-beginning in February. teenth-century playwright Moliere. The ten weeks of classes are given at a cost of $85, Cotter is proud of the diversity and and are open to the general public. quantity of plays offered by his group. Cotter serves as host and director of his pupils in 
u 
"We've never been dark," said Cotter. their performance entitled, "Under the Varnished Dome -The Musical." ~) "It's primarily improvisational comedy, where the 'It sounds strange, but there performers are given situations by the audience," said Cotter.
are a few basic rules to 
"It's sketch comedy similar to Second City and SNL."improv; Never deny what's As far as music goes, the title of the show is "some­
V) 
going on and don't ask ques­what facetious," explained Cotter. "The opening num­ber is music, but it's a cappella."
tions.' 

Improv at Theatre Works will perform "Under the Kerry Cotter Varnished Dome -The Musical," on Fri., Jan. 28 at 8 Director of lmprov p.m., Sat., Jan. 29 at 9 p.m. and Feb., 5, 12 and 19 at 11 p.m. Tickets for the January shows are $3. $4 for
at Theatre Works 
the February shows. 
"We've always had a show going on, and 
have had a full season of theatre since 
we opened in July." 

Theatre Works was formed by Cotter 
c: 
• ~ and Jim Robinson, now the artistic I director of the troupe, last year when the two got together and thought that the Michiana region was lacking what 
. they had to offer: fresh, live dramas and 
comedies in an intimate setting. 
· To that end, Cotter, a native of South 
.. 
... .. __ Bend who has acted professionadllyL in Indianapolis, New Or1eans an os Angeles, returned to his hometown and 
E
helped to form Theatre Works. .. "I wanted to come back (to South Bend) and start a theatre," said Cotter. Cotter and Robinson seem to have filled a community need with their 
group.

E 
"(Our plays) have been very well­. received,» said Cotter, noting that many of the theatre's shows have filled the 90­. _ . seat 100 Center, the group's loft the~~re 
which he described as "very intimate. 
0 -
"This type of (performing) group is very unique for this area." i Back to teaching improv. Cotter is a '-c ·... ·· former member of The Groundlings, the-famous improvisational comedy group in 
Los Angeles which boasts such distin­l1 guished alumni as Pee-Wee Herman and I Phil Hartman of "Saturday Night Live." I
U 

Returning to South Bend, Cotter want­
ed to form a theatre in which he could continue the 
improvisational comedy which is his love. Out of this love grew Improv at Theatre Works and 
Improv Classes taught by Cotter. 

Little Susie 
meets the 
Green-Fellas 
One day Little Susie was walk--------­ing through an enchanted forest when she found herself in a vil­lage. 
"Thank goodness I've found this pleasant village," Little Susie said. "I need a good friend to talk to and rest my feet with." 
Susie hoped she would make many new friends at this new village. Yet as she approached Kenya Johnson 
closer, Little Susie heard a 
Accent Editor
frightful scream. 

"Oh my word, what is it," a-------­voice said. Susie looked behind her and found a green thing standing near her feet. He was only about hal her size 
"What am I?," Susie repeated. "The question is what are you?" "We're the Green-Fellas!." one of the green crea­tures said. 
Little Susie extended her hand for a greeting. 
"Don't touch it," another small Green-Fella said. "You don't know what she may do to you." Little Susie looked at the Green-Fellas with confu­sion. "Why are you scared of me?" 
More Green-Fellas came out of their huts to look at Little Susie, the huge spectacle which invaded their peaceful. homogenous society. 
''I've seen her kind before," one of the creatures. with blonde stringy hair, said. "I watch them on the gurrilope." 
"What's a gurrilope?," Susie asked. 
"What a dummy," the blonde Green-Fella said. The creature pointed to what seemed to be a television in the middle of the village. Susie laughed. 
"Yea, we watch your kind on the gurrilope all the time," the Green-Fella continued. "You come into our villages and steal all that you can. You try to take our "obs and bring bad things into this peaceful haven we've taken so long to build." 
Susie was sad that these strange looking creatures felt that way about her. "I know some of us do that, but we aren't all like that," Susie pleaded. "It's not fair for you to judge me like that." 
Another Green-Fella, the only one with blue eyes, spoke up. "Yea, but look at you. You're ugly. You don't have green skin like us. You don't have red hair like us. You don't even use the same words that we do. What are you? You're something abnormal." 
"Just because I am different, doesn't make me abnormal," Susie appealed. "To me all of you are abnor.w.al." 
The society of green beings gasped. "Yes. Where I am from there are nothing but others who look much like I do. Your green skin would frighten us." 
"You're lying. Everyone has green skin," the blonde one said. 
"Well, look at you. You're the only one amongst all your village who as blonde hair. Everyone else has red-hair. Is that normal? And you," Little Susie said as she turned another. "You are the only one with blue eyes. Why? Does that make you uglier than the others?" 
A mummer spread among the Green-Fellas. Then, out of the blue, a baby Green-Fella crawled over to Little Susie. Someone tried to stop the baby, but it was too late. Little Susie had picked up the baby and tick­led it under it's arms. 
"Look, she's trying to kill the baby," the chief Green­
Pella screamed. Suddenly they heard a laugh from the 
baby. 

"How did you do that?," the chief asked. "We've 
been trying to get the baby to laugh for weeks now." 
Little Susie showed them how to tickle the baby just 
right. The Green-Fellas spent the whole day tickling 
each other and laughing. 

"You've taught us something we never knew how to 
do before," the chief Green-Fella said. "Thank you. 
Sorry for the rude treatment we threw at you when 
you arrived." 

Susie smiled and hugged the little Green-Fella. 
"That's okay. I understand. We all have stereotypes 
against things which seem foreign to us. But we must 
be careful not to act on those stereotypes. Every crea­
ture has something wonderful to offer to one another. 
Thank you for choosing to be my friend." 
"Thank you for becoming our friend," all the Green­
Fellas said simultaneously. 
Susie spent all day with the Green-Fellas and as she 
walked home, she walked with a smile on her face. 
Not because she had made new friends. Not because 
she had played all day; but because Little Susie knew 
the world was one day closer to being at peace. 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia 

The best medicine for 
Gabriela Sabatini was a couple 
of sets against Jana Novotna at 
the Australian Open. 
Sabatini, who woke up 
Tuesday morning with severe 
dizziness and nausea, took ad­
vantage of Novotna's sloppy 
play to win 6-3, 6-4 at night 
and advance to the semifinals. 
"I was very fortunate that I 
had to play in the evening, 
because if I had to play during 
the day I don't think I was 
going to make it," she said. "At 
the beginning I was really tired, 
but after I started to move a lit­
tle bit more and I started to get 
into the match more, I started 
to feel better." 
The fourth-seeded Sabatini · will play No. 2 Arantxa Sanchez 
Vicario in one of Thursday's 
semifinals. The other will 
match top-seeded Steffi Graf 
against No. 10 Kimiko Date. 
Graf defeated Lindsay 
Davenport 6-3, 6-2 in a duel 
between two of the hardest hit­
ters in women's tennis. 
Graf, a three-time champion 
who has not lost a set so far in fans with red and white Japanese flags painted on their faces. Some fans bowed to her after the victory. 

Date is naturally left-handed, but her grandfather convinced her to become a righty when she was young to stay in line with a Japanese preference for right-handed women. 
The only other Japanese woman to reach a Grand Slam semifinal was Kazuko Sawamatsu, who reached the 1973 Australian Open semifi­nals. Jiro Sato reached four Grand Slam men's semifinals in the 1930s. 
"It is a hard thing to reach this stage being Japanese, because we are not very big people and my height and 
...

strength is not perhaps very strong compared to oppo­nents," the 5-foot-4, 117 -pound Date said through an in­terpreter. 
Sanchez Vicario reached the semifinals for the fourth straight year. She won 7-6 (7­3), 6-4 to end the Grand Slam career of Manuela Maleeva­Fragniere, who is retiring next AP File Photo 
month after a 13-year profes­Gabriela Sabatini notched a straight set victory to advance in the sional career. Australian Open. 
the tournament, took advantage of Davenport's lack of speed by rifling forehand passing shots beyond the reach of the lum­bering 17 -year-old. 
"She hits the ball so hard and she keeps you on the defensive. She just controls the points," Davenport said of Graf. "I've never played someone who hits it as hard as she does." 
Davenport, 6-foot-2 and 165 pounds, was seeded No. 16 and playing in her first Grand Slam quarterfinal. She often froze Graf with blistering forehands and sharply angled two-handed backhands, but was too slow to give Graf much trouble. 
"Because she's that big and tall, I think it's a bit more diffi­cult for her to move," Graf said. "I think she knows physically she can get in better shape, and that's probably why she's not moving as well as she can." 
Date became the first 
Japanese player to advance to a 
Grand Slam semifinal in more 
than two decades with a 6-2, 4­
Conchita Martinez. 
A right-hander who hit sever­al shots left-handed during the match, Date was cheered on by 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
6, 6-3 defeat of third-seeded 

NOTICES USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard ' 233-2342/10-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun ILOST & FOUND I LOST: Grey metal double cross ear­ring between 2nd floor PW and North Dining Hall on 1/14. Call Bridget at 4-2965 if you found it. I lost a silver chin with a cross walking from Roalfs to Alumni in the snow. If you find it I would really appreciate it if you would call me. Todd # 1251 LOST: EYEGLASSES IN TAN CASE. CALL AMY X4966 Lost my two car keys. They are bound to a medal with St Christopher on one side and Notre Dame de Paris on the other. Please call Huy 273­5859 if any info. LOST: diamond ring-unusual set­ting-5omewhere between the Linebacker and Turtle Creek on Friday Night, 1/21. Extreme senti­mental value. If you found it, please call Adriana 273-4803 REWARD OFFERED LOST -TIMEX WATCH WITH INDIGLO. It has a black leather band. I lost it on Sat., Jan. 22, either at North Dining Hall, Lafortune, or on the way from NOH to Lafortune. If you have any info or have found it, please call Rich Glatz at 4-1143. Thanks. Lost: Set of keys on a red scuba fin keychain. North County Scuba written on keychain. If found please call Greg at 4-1620. $$$$REWARD$$$$ for the return of my long dark green coat (Harry Levine Petite) that disappeared from Club 23 last Friday. Please help; I'm very cold. Call Kate x-1564 No ?'s asked! LOST: several keys on a round United States Senate key chain. One of the keys is a big black Honda key. Another is a blue key. Please call Joe at 234-6306 with any information.  LOST: gold chain & cross w/ G in a heart at center, on path to Debartalo between Niewland & Hayes-Healy. REWARD. x1829 Found: gold chain and cross outside of LaFortune. Call x4833 to claim WANTED ••••sPRING BREAK '94 .... Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. Need revue tickets bad!! Call Tom x-1747 DEADHEADS-I lost my tapes in transit, and I would surely appreci­ate any good deadhead who would make me some tapes to get me through the semester. I've got the blanks ready. Help! 273-5817 CRUISE SHIPS HIRING-Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 $700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. deckhands. Alaska summer fish­eries now hiring. Employment Alaska 1-206-323-2672 SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ in salary & benefits. Ski/Snowboard instructors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet staff + other positions (includ­ing summer). Over 15,000 open­ings. For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext•V5584 FEMALE MODELS for suggestive but tasteful pin-up-type photos. Call 273-7074 after 5 for info. I need GARTH BROOKS tixii!J PLEASE call 4-1477 MNIMJVVVWI/V\MN Sell me your old books! I need: Operations Management: Strategy and Analysis (3rd ed.) ; and Probability and Statistics for Engineers (3rd ed.) call Tim @ 273-6142 MNIMJVVVWI/V\MN Men and Women needed for free haircuts. Call Cosimo's 277-1875  ROOMMATE WANTED Handicapped 28-year-old male looking for 2-3 people to share house 5-10 mins. from campus. Will provide FREE RENT in exchange for helping me one hour per day and assisting in caring for house, lawn and driveway. Begins immed. Prefer grad student and require per­son who will be in South Bend year­round. \I interested call Adam 289­9342. Need ride to Ann Arbor, Ml this weekend. Will help drive, pay for gas.X4833 .___F_O_R_RE_N_T_ _.I NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225. MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306 SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6 BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 FURNISHED 8 AND 4 BEDROOM HOUSES 1 MILE NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 Roommate to share 3 bedrm home. $250 mo. 5-min drive. Call 232­7175 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595 Looking for student tenants near NO-clean, furnished apts. 755 South Bend Ave 1 bdrm-240, effe­ciency-215; 607 E. Corby-2 bdrm $330, 1 bdrm $260; 519 E. Corby-2 bdrm $280+heat; drive by, call for appointment, deposit, references 1­800-582-9320 I NEED ROOMMATES! Summer + 94-95 year 150/mo furn+util pd-MUST SEE! Hickory Village-5 min to campus 273-8369 FREE MAID SERVICE '94-95 Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B.B. & sand V-ball courts. 234-3831 or 273-0482 FOR SALE GARTH BROOKS TICKETS FOR SALE!! Call 273-6548 and leave a message with your offer and how many tick­ets you need!  TICKETS I need 4 tix. 4 CARROT TOP X1646 -Toby Will trade Keenan Revue tix 10 Thurs for 5 Fri or 10 Thurs for 6 Sat or best offer. Call SMC 284-4144 or4071 ASAP. Will pay $$BIG BUCKS$$ for Garth Brooks Tickets. Call Sarah at (""PERSONAL · JPW wknd confrmd reservation @ Jamison Inn avail. for trade for cnfrmd hotel res. Stanford w,knd, Sep29-0ct1 call Paul 1-800-538­9363-(xt)5128 YOU MAY HAVE MASTERED THE MEDALLION HUNT -BUT WINNING BIG AT KNOTT'S CASINO NIGHT WON'T BE SUCH AN EASY FEAT. KNOTT'S CASINO NIGHT JAN.28 FREE! FREE! FREE! FREE! The Last Cavanaugh Hall Play "The Odd Couple" Th, Fri, Sat, Washington Hall 8:10 "It's Worth Every Penny" -Siskel "Forget that Revue-thing -Go See Thisll" -Ebert FREE! FREE! FREEl FREE! in search of black jersey-LAZERS #33, missing since Club Hockey game in Ft. Wayne. Please return to Doc 1-6752, SCH rm 446. Thanks!! PE section 6B rated their best dates. The results: GRACE 22% STANFORD 22% DILLON 16% FLANNER 16% ZAHM 8% ST ED'S 6% MORRISSEY 6% ALUMNI 3% KEENAN 3% Put your dorm on top! Apply to be a formal date for 1 of 25 DARING PE WOMEN on-2/11 . Or make it a sec­tion event! If you're looking for a lit­tle adventure. send name, phone# & creative resume to PARTY WITH 6B, 650 PE by 2/4. Ace Ventura -Pet Detective Hinezy, You have less than zero self-con­fidence in your social ability. What's the deal?? You cannot succeed without at least trying.  ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. The Legendary Blues Master Pinetop Perkins in concert tonight, Jan. 26, at the Madison Oyster Bar, 421 E. Madison, 9 P.M. Come hear the real thing! The Legendary Blues Master Pinetop Perkins in concert tonight, Jan. 26, at the Madison Oyster Bar, 421 E. Madison, 9 P.M. Come hear the real thing! HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY CHRISTIE! love, anabel Say Hi to your monkey for usll SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373 Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 1-800-678-6386 Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 days on the beach! We have the best trips & prices! Includes air & hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­678-6386 Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days oceanview room with kitchen $1191 Walk to best bars! Includes free dis­count card -save $50 on cover charges! 1-800-678-6386 Florida's New Spring Break hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key West! More upscale than Panama City/Daytona! Great beaches & nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa Beachfront Resort $1591 Key West $2491 1-800-678-6386 SOPHOMORES! Ill Form tum-in for Sophomore Sibs Weekend is Jan. 31 in the Sorin Room from 3-6:30 p.m. Don't miss out on the opportunity to share Notre Dame with your sib. All monies, forms, etc. should be turned in at that time.  SOPHOMORES!!! JPW escape is Feb. 18-20 but tix go on sale starting Jan. 17. Sales are from 3-5 on M & W and from 6-8 on Tu and Th. Only $50 gets hotel, trans. and tick­et to Phantom or 2nd City. First-come first-served. Supplies are limited. 4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Med/legal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 1-800-884-8385. HEY!! A guitarist and drummer are looking for a bassist and guitarist to form a really brutal band. Experience and equipment are a must! If interested, call Rob at x4330 Thanks! SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON­DON & ROME IN 21ST YEAR. TRAVEL IN IREL,SCOT,ENG,FR,GER,SWITZ, & ITALY. COURSES IN PHOTO, BIO,BUS, ECON,HIST,SOC,ITAL­IAN,& LIT. MEETING 6:30PM FEB. 8 CARROLL HALL SMC. FOR INFO -PROF. BLACK 284-4460 ••••••••sEAT THE RUSH ........ VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching, and if you want to write a classified to that special someone, you can type your ad now. Your message will appear in the special Valentine's Observer on Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. SARG•SARG.SARG.SARG• Scavenger HunV Word Scramble Clue #2: Which NO grad hosts his own TV talk show? ---­__ () ___ _ -remember the letter in parenthe­ses is one of the letters you need to uncover the location of the $100.00 MUSICLAND GIFT CERTIFICATE SARG•SARG•SARG•SARG• HEALING VISION We've all heard about the difficult decision a woman makes BEFORE an ABORTION. But what happens AFTER? There is hope...Come and see. Thursday, January 27th 7:30p Cushing Auditorium 1118 GRACE -Your music sucks!!!  
--,_..  

r-~--­
1 
I I 
I page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 26, 1994 
I 
I 
I Skelton trying to make Great Midwest troubling Cincy 
I I Associated Press the teams we play, we've got a took some bad shots. We took 
I statement with defense 
I shot at some quality wins." some shots where we didn't
I 
I CINCINNATI Winning six or seven of the have our feet underneath us,
By RUSTY MILLER couple shots in a row," Skelton In less than a week, the remaining 11 is no easy task. where we didn't have a good
I 
Associated Press said. "I think he'll continue to University of Cincinnati has Nine of the games are against look at the goal." 
I 
shoot the ball well if he knocks

I gone from a nationally-ranked, ranked teams -No. 8 Huggins also plans to let star
COLUMBUS, Ohio down two or three in a row."
I sure-bet NCAA tournam1mt Massachusetts, No. 20 Alabama freshman Dontonio Wingfield
I Ohio State guard Jamie Ayers agrees. Of Respert, he team to a conference also-ran Birmingham, No. 22 Marquette return for Thursday's game.
I Skelton was asked Tuesday if said, "I think a guy who knows struggling to keep its post-sea-(twice), No. 23 St. Louis (twice), Wingfield, averaging 16 pointsI there were similarities between he has the green light and has 
I 
son hopes 
No. 27 California and No. 30 and nine rebounds, was sus­his play and that of Michigan confidence in his abilities is a
I alive. DePaul (twice). pended for Sunday's gameState guard dangerous threat."
I A week ago, because he skipped classes last 
I S h a w n The key, Skelton said, is to the Bearcats Collectively, those 11 oppo­week.
I Respert. keep the ball from getting into were 12-3 nents are 109-39. "It's not a matter of him"Well, we Respert's hands. 
and ranked "We just haven't been playing struggling in school," Hugginsboth shoot a "As many times as he touches 
No. 19. well," said sophomore guard said. "He's not struggling inlot," Skelton the ball, that will be hard 
After losses Keith Gregor. "No one's really school. Contrary to what peoplebecause that's who they focus
b~ga~ with a ' to Xavier of Bob Huggins playing well." would like for you to believe,
big grm. their offense around," he said. 
Ohio and UC's most obvious problem is Don's a smart kid. But you've
1 
It's ironic that so much will

But, all due Jamie Skelton Memphis State -the first time shooting. The Bearcats shot 28 got to go to class. 
respect to be expected of Skelton on 
Cincinnati has lost consecutive percent in Sunday's loss at "It's a matter of re­Skelton, the big difference is defense. Almost as much is ex­games since near the end of the Memphis State. It was their sponsibility. Our guys are goingthat Respert makes a lot, too. pected on offense, where he is 1990-91 season -the Bearcats worst performance of the year, to go to class.
With Michigan State coming Ohio State's top perimeter have slipped out of the polls. and UC hasn't been better than to town Wednesday night for a threat. 
Their five losses are more 40 percent in four games. "He understands that he letBig Ten showdown, one of the But this hasn't been a vintage than in either of the past two "We didn't get our shoulders the team down and he said he's top matchups figures to be year for the Dayton native. He whole seasons. and the tough­square," Huggins said. "We not going to do it anymore." 
Respert, a 6-foot-3 junior, is second on the team with an 
est part of their Great Midwest

against Skelton, a 6-3 senior. average of 13.6 points per 
Conference schedule is upcom­

"They both have the scorer's game but is shooting just 36.5 
ing.

mentality," Ohio State coach percent from the field -even 
"Our league's so good, we're

Randy Ayers said. worse than his 36.8 percent 
12-5 and we're fifth in our

Skelton will get the call to from 3-point range. 
league," said coach Bob

guard Respert in Ohio State's His poor shooting is one rea­
Huggins. "We've got to get that

man-to-man defense. With Ohio son the Buckeyes have strug­
turned around."

State desperately seeking gled from the start. They stand 
Even if Cincinnati were to win

rebounds, the last thing the 9-8 entering the game with 
the Great Midwest Conference,

Buckeyes need is for Respert to Michigan State. 
the league -in its third year -' 
light them up for 25 or 30. He has taken 39 more shots 
does not get an automatic tour­

Respert enters averaging than Derek Anderson, second 
nament bid until its fifth year. 

22.6 points a game. He is sec­on the team in shots attempted, 
Huggins says it's not too early

ond in the Big Ten in 3-point but Anderson is shooting 45 
to start worrying about the

field goals made per game percent from the field. Skelton 
NCAA.

(2.56), sixth in 3-point percent­has taken 60 more shots than 
"I guess that's the one good

age (.422) and ninth in free­Lawrence Funderburke but has 
thing about playing the sched­

throw percentage (.791), to go scored just 23 more points. 
ule we play. You've got a lot of

with his third place in the Skelton said he has been 
opportunities," Huggins said.

league in scoring average. working to be more patient, but 
"If you look at the records of

"I can't let him knock down a that it's not in his nature. 
HappLJ 2/sf 
N~AA 
Love, 
Mom,Dad, Max, Daisy & MuPphy Bmwn 



EVERYBODY CAN DANCE 
REGARDLESS OF AGE, RACE, GENDER, PHYSICAL CONDITION, DANCING OR ACTING ABILITY
' ,..-~.....~~~~~~~~~~--~....~'.....

a participation danc.e perfbrmanc.e 
• 

JANUARY 28 AT 7:00PM 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
MUST BE THERE IN THE BEGINNING SMC · ND ID REQUIRED 


Brought to you 6y the IY/ultiCultural Executive Council 


·~-------------~---~~-~----~----­
-~----·-----~--~--·-~~ 
I I 
I 
Wednesday, January 26, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
I 
I
OSU will attempt to stop fast breaking Spartans 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

There is a common drill used by basketball teams in which players line up and shoot layup 
after layup after layup. 
On Jan. 13 last year, Michigan State ran that drill against Ohio State. 


But not in Randy Ayers practice: it was in front of 13,276 silent fans at St. John Arena. According to the official play­by-play sheet, 24 of Michigan State's 29 field goals that night were simple layups. No fewer than 11 were uncontested breakaway drives in the Spartans' deceptively easy 77­60 victory. With Ohio State (9-8 overall, 2-4 in the Big Ten) again hav­ing difficulties on the offensive boards and defense against the fastbreak, Wednesday night's matchup with Michigan State 

LARGE PIZZA 

PLUS TAX 

STORE HOURS 

SUN-TH 4:30-1 am 
FRI-SAT 4:30-2am 
CHEESE PIZZA TOPPINGS $1 EACH­VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY EXPIRES 5-13-94 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE 
PRODUCT SERVICE GUARANTEE: 
IF FOR ANY REASON YOU ARE UNSATISFIED WITH OUR PRODUCT OR SERVICE, PLEASE CONTACT THE STORE MANAGER IMMEDIATELY ­AND WE'LL FIX IT. 
could be a repeat. 
"They push the ball upcourt," Ohio State senior guard Jamie Skelton said. "One of our prob­lems this year has been transi­tion defense. So if we don't get back, they'll get easy baskets early in the game and probably try to take our crowd out of it." 
The Buckeyes rank last in the Big Ten in rebounding margin. And rebounds are the key to putting the clamps on oppo­nents who like to get out on the break. 
Largely because of its ineffec­tiveness on the boards, Ohio State is also last in the Big Ten in scoring margin and next to last in scoring defense. 
Conversely, Michigan State (12-6, 3-3 Big Ten) is second to Illinois in the conference in rebound margin and permits opponents the fewest number of rebounds of any team in the. league. 
Michigan State is led by junior guard Shawn Respert, averaging 22.6 points a game, and 6-foot-9 center Anthony Miller (13. 7 ppg). Six-four Kris Weshinsky is joined by a pair of 
® 

native Ohioans, 6-7 Quinton Brooks (12.9) and 6-3 Eric Snow (6.7) in the starting line­up. 
Snow and Miller could be the keys to another easy victory. A year ago, ,.Miller had 12 rebounds as the Spartans built a 44-34 advantage on the boards. Snow was the man who triggered the fastbreak. 
"I think Eric Snow ... is one of the best guards in the confer­ence in terms of pushing the ball up the floor," Ohio State coach Randy Ayers said. "That's a concern of ours be­cause we've got to get back. Our transition defense has to improve for us to shut him down." 
And the rebounding, particu­larly with Miller flexing his muscles inside, again will be a pain for a team that was throt­tled 45-22 on the boards Saturday Qn the way to a 101­63 loss at Purdue. 
Ayers said he was "embar­rassed" by his team's rebound­ing in that game. 
Now he has decided to go 
with a bigger lineup, with more time going to 6-9 Tony Watson, 6-8 Rickey Dudley and 6-7 Charles Macon to counteract timidity inside. 
The Buckeyes will have the services of 6-11 Gerald Eaker, who missed Sunday and Monday practices after a death in the family, but will not have 6-11 Nate Wilbourne, still re­covering from an infection in his left elbow. 
Lawrence Funderburke, Skelton, Derek Anderson and Greg Simpson will be expected to step up and help out on the boards and against Snow and the fastbreak if another blowout is to be averted. 
"If we can eliminate the times they get close to the basket and make them shoot outside, I think the game will be close to the end," Skelton said. 
"Hopefully if the crowd's in the game we can pull it out at the end." · 
But that, of course, will depend on whether the Spar­tans have another layup drill. 
DOMINOS PIZZA 
271-0300 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Ski Trip: There will be an inf~>rmational meeting for ~O!)~ inter~s.ted in the spring !bt~IJk tr~:P tQ Ja~kson Hole, Wyoming on Thursday January 27 in 127 Niewland at 8 p.m. Questions? Contact .Pave Zidar at 273-3105 or LJ<evin Malone a:t -1:10~2. •~t' 
"Sports:Thcii'Will h~i 11 eting for soccer officials at >the JA.CC auditorium at 5:30 on January 27. All inter­
~sted officials please attend. RecSports: Deadline uf_sday. Jaqu~i-y>, 27 ,.fQ~ 
pus Indoor Soccer and ~fupus Badminton Doubles.:: RecSports: There will be a 
captains meeting at 5 .on January 7 at thl:i auditQriinn. 


Sports: be a dQ.w,nhill ski trip • Jan­2~ with busses leaving li­. ci}'cle at 5:00 p.m. en te(·to Sw!~s Vailey. Tne is[$25·including lift ticke~r .tentaJ, and transportatlJ>Ji; tjcketf{ available for $17 with­out rentaL 'The return bus leave. at 10:00 P·D1· inner lessons are free, at RecSports by
January 26 or cal11-6100. · ·· 
·· Ketsu-ka self defense class meets Tuesday and Thursday f'rom 6:30-'8:00 p.m. in {loclmtj 2.19-and Slllld::"ys from ,?:QQ: ~::so ,p~m. T}le registration: t~ is $18 paid at RecSports. s&iil , > Shorln~ryu karate classes begin Wednesday, January 26: They will mee~ Mondays and Wednesdays between 4.:~.9 
·and 6:00 in Rockne '301. ·The fee is $15 }let semester. ~'iiiiq 

Cancun Mexico ~.om$439 Negrll Jamaica ~.om$449 Montego Bay Jamaica ,.... $419 Daytona Beach, FL ~.om$149 Panama City Beach, FL ~.om$129 
lift1M SfiiM6 lliEt« Bill/
SPRING 
BREAK
COMPLETE FIVE li SEVEII IIIGHT TRIPS 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH STEAMBOAT LAS VEGAS VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANG ISLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
"PfiiPt:llSOIIDEI'fiiDiffGOJIIKIT..UIOII/MEAIOAftl/lU'8ntOf Sill. 
FOR AIIIIJDW. NtiRMII10N l RESERVmiNI
It •BDO•SUNCHASEI
• 

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January_26, 1994 
they also had James Lofton, a certain Hall of Farner. 
Lett also seeking redemption Bills 
How about Pro Bowl players? 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA This. was Leon Lett's day of dread. 
The NFL mandated that he would have to appear at Super Bowl media day and explain why he was so accident prone. 
Why, Leon, didn't you let the ball alone on Thanksgiving Day in a blunder that made the Blooper Hall of Fame? 
What, Leon, will you do the next time you recover a fumble in the Super Bowl? Will you do a hot-dog dance and have Don Beebe slap the ball away again a yard from the end zone? 
Sweat. It soaked through Lett's jersey as he flopped down on the Georgia Dome's 20-yard line. Sweat. It poured from his forehead and made the palms of his hands slippery. 
"It's time to put it all behind me," whispered this gentle 6­foot-6er from tiny Fair Hope, Ala., who has such long arms it's like passing a ball through tree limbs. 
It was a snowy Thanksgiving, and Lett forgot that a blocked field goal produces a live ball only if it's touched by the defending team. Lett did. Miami recovered and kicked the game­winning field goal as time expired. 
The star-crossed Lett hadn't spoken to reporters since. Until Tuesday. 
"I got some great letters and I answered everyone of them that was positive," Lett said. "Fans can make too much of just one play. I don't want to say what I was thinking. 
"But I thanked God when we beat the New York Giants, won the division and the homefield advantage. It meant I didn't hurt the team." 
Lett had thought he was going to be a former Cowboy. "I thought I had lost my job," 

Lett said. "But Coach Johnson told me the next day not to worry. That I was still one of the guys." 
By now, the crush of bodies was overwhelming. 
"I can't breathe, don't get behind me," The Cat said, springing to his feet With aston­ishing agility. 
He fanned his face and sweat ran into his eyes. He pawed at his eyes until he could clear them. 
Lett tried to explain what he would do if he recovered a fum­ble Sunday. In last year's 52-17 victory over Buffalo, Lett set a Super Bowl record by returning a fumble 64 yards. The laughs came, however, after Lett slowed down and tried to jive his way to a touchdown. Beebe came from nowhere to slap the ball out of Lett's hands at the 1­yard line and the ball rolled out of the end zone for a touchback. 

# 
No touchdown! Buffalo's ball. 

This summer at training camp, Lett said, "I tried to give the crowd a show. I'll never for­get what happened." 
Asked again Tuesday.. Lett smiled and said, "If it happens again, I'm going to run like hell. Beebe won't have a chance to catch me." 
Oddsmakers in Las Vegas have made Lett a 200-to-1 shot to score the first touchdown on Sunday. 
By now it was all too much for the claustrophobic Lett. Only 11 minutes into his interview, Lett left. 
"He's a shy guy, a little shell­shocked," said Dallas public relations director Rich Dalrymple. "He's from a small college at Emporia State. Not many big crowds there." 
Defensive end Charles Haley blamed the media, saying "some of them make it look like all he can do is fumble the ball. Not that he is fixing to become a great player." 
Offensive tackle Nate Newton said he encouraged Lett to open up. 
"I hammered him and told him to come out and talk," Newton said. "I told him to get it over with. " 
continued from page 16 
their possibility of being suc­
cessful." 
Until the biggest show. 
"A lot of people are going to 

say they don't want to see us 
back," running back Ken Davis 
says, "but we want to be back 
for ourselves. All of us want to 
come back and dance in the 
streets of Buffalo." 
First, they have to dance over 

and past the NFC, something 
no AFC representative has 
done in a decade. 
The Bills certainly have the 

players to win a Super Bowl. Another measure of greatness is how many Hall of Fame­quality performers a team has. The Bills have three who deserve immediate con­sideration when eligible in Bruce Smith, Thurman Thomas . and Jim Kelly: For the first three Super Bowl appearances, 

Twelve Bills have been there. 
As for impact on the sport, the Bills refined the no-huddle offense, which was nearly unstoppable in 1990. Thomas might be the best all-purpose back the sport has seen, and Kelly is well-suited for the hurry-up attack. 
Even if the Bills lose on Sunday, their ability to get to the final step four straight times shouldn't be ignored. 
But it will be. 
"That kind of thing adds wood to the fire," says corner­back Nate Odomes, who-like so many teammates -bristles at the criticism leveled at his team for not bringing home the biggest prize. "Some people hate us for winning. Some peo­ple spoiled their appetites on us in the Super Bowls. We don't care. We're going to keep working and fighting until we get it right." 
Happy 215' Birthday 

I 


Love, Luigi 

•

1ne 
ews! 


-------~--­
~-----------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 26, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Dueling quarterbacks fllatched again, but now Aikman ails 
Kelly trying to prove detractors wrong 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Jim Kelly has become a col­lector. Not of cars or stamps or hats. 
No, the Buffalo Bills quarter­back has been collecting bad press: newspaper stories that mock him, his team and their failure to win the big one. One day, perhaps after a Super Bowl victory, he might let everyone else see his little scrapbook. 
"Some guys think they are practical jokers, but they aren't," Kelly said of those re­porters he finds offensive. "I don't have any respect for any of them." 
Kelly began his scrapbook after Buffalo struggled to a 13­10 victory over New England in the eighth week of the season. There were tremors that the Bills were bickering again. Some players grumbled about the play calling, others com­plained that they weren't get­ting the ball enough. 
"It's just some of the things I began to see and read," Kelly said. "I don't read too many newspapers, but I read enough." 
Don't get Kelly wrong, he insists. This is not a personal crusade against the media, designed to propel him to even greater heights in Sunday's Super Bowl against the Dallas Cowboys. 
"It's just a few notes," he said. "It's defmitely not a moti­vating factor. But it's something I want to make a point of. I'll leave it at that." 
As if to demonstrate his point, Kelly said he even forgot to bring his clip file with him to Atlanta. 
"I left it at home," he said. "I've got to get someone to bring it down to me." 
"Everybody has a hobby," coach Marv Levy said with a smile. "That's his hobby." 
At 33, Kelly appears to be on the downside of his career. His 18 touchdown passes this sea­son were his lowest since 1988. His 3,382 passing yards were the fourth lowest of his nine­year career. 
But his coach and teammates insist Kelly has never been bet­ter. 
"He has a much greater appreciation of the running game," Levy said. "We have greater balance, and he's putting his input into the run­ning game." 
"This is the best Jim Kelly who's ever played," receiver Don Beebe said. "I know first hand because I see him in the huddle before every play. I've never seen him more confident, more in control. Maybe he's not had as many big stat days. But he's always calling the right play at the right time. Nine out of 10 times, he's calling the right play." 
The Super Bowl has been another story. Four times Kelly has led his team to the title game, a feat unmatched by any other quarterback. But no quarterback has ever lost four Super Bowls, and Kelly is only one away. Some have suggested that his career won't be com­plete unless he wins it. 
Kelly will hear none of that. After last Sunday's 30-13 romp over Kansas City in the AFC championship, he seemed to take special glee in defying those who bemoaned another Super Bowl with Buffalo in it. "We're baaack,'' he chortled on the sideline. 
"Nothing fazes Jim Kelly," Levy said. "He's the toughest­minded guy you'll ever find. He stands as an example of what the soul of this team is like." 
Kelly waded into the horde of reporters and cameras on Tuesday with the same poise he shows when he stands in the pocket that extra half-second, willing to take a hit to get off the pass. There was no anger in his voice as he encountered question after question about a possible four-peat. · 

!lrish Drama: Politics and War 
A six credit traveling seminar studying modern Irish history by seeing plays and exploring the beautiful countryside around Dublin and Galway. 
Jun~ 7-July 11, 1994 

For information contact: 
Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse,~ 13244-4170 (315) 443-9420/9421 
Aikman's failed memory 
won't di~tract in big game 
By HAL BOCK 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Two, three, four times, Troy Aikman reviewed the details of his NFC championship game knockout, repeating over and over how the concussion had erased almost all of Sunday from his memory. 
Was it scary? someone won­dered. 
Aikman smiled thinly, and seized the straight line the way a quarterback does a defense. 
"You know,'' he said evenly Tuesday, "I don't remember." 
There are some benefits to getting a knee to the head, after all. The frightening parts are forgotten. It also happens to be one of the hazards of his profession, something Aikman accepted a long time ago. 
He is the kind of quarterback some football architect might have drawn up on a blueprint -6-foot-4, 222 pounds, blond hair, blue eyes. There is an angry scrape on one elbow and a couple of nicks on his hands, souvenirs of his job, worn like badges of honor. 
And, yes, he can't remember Sunday. 
"It's part of the game," Aikman said matter-of-factly. "As long as you're going to play, you can't be too con­cerned -unless it starts hap­pening on a continuing basis." 
There was a time, though, when sacks seemed to be part of the Dallas Cowboys offense. And Aikman, suffering through a 1-15 rookie season, was the sackee. 
Drafted No. 1 in 1989 as the first building block in the reconstruction of the Cowboys, Aikman took his licks. 
"It's hard to put into words, to explain how miserable 1-15 was," Aikman said. "It was the toughest year I ever went through. If that had continued, 
..

I could not have played past my first contract." 
The turnaround came a year later when Norv Turner was hired as offensive coordinator and installed the offense Aikman had used in college, an attack designed to take better advantage of the weapons Dal­las had. 
"He throws the ball real well," wide receiver Alvin Harper said. "It's a ball you don't have to work for. You just have to run up under them." 
Aikman is a star now, cele­brated on the cover of a new NFL comic book, equipped with a $50 million, eight-year con­tract that is the league's rich­est, owner of one Super Bowl ring and favored to capture another on Sunday. 
ThePrudenbal~ 
will be visiting the ND/SMC communities on the following dates: 
Wednesday, Feb. 16 at Notre Dame 
and 

Thursday, Feb. 17 at Saint Mary's 
sign up for an interview at your respective Career and Placement Centers. If schedules are full please contact Jessica Borgmann at (312)631-2169. 
GRADUATE STUDENTS WANTED 
The Graduate Student Union is currently accepting nominations for GSU President and Vice President for 1994-1995. Interested persons should call the GSU office at 631-6963 before February 1. 
REWARDS 
.. 


Women's sports combine in lawsuit against Virginia Tech 
ROANOKE, Va. 
A federal class action lawsuit flied Tuesday by 12 female ath­letes at Virginia Tech accuses the university of discriminating against women athletes by denying female sports clubs varsity status. 
"There are sacrifices a true athlete must make to succeed, but being victimized by sex dis­crimination should not be one of them," said Kathy Jones, one 
By DAVID REED 
Associated Press 

Figure skating circus continues off ice 
By JEFF BARNARD 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 
The U.S. Figure Skating As­sociation has dropped plans to try to get a closer look at the police investigation of national figure skating champion Tonya, Harding. 
Authorities in Portland, meanwhile, said today no wit­nesses were scheduled to tes­tify before the grand jury hear­ing evidence on the alleged plot to injure Nancy Kerrigan, Harding's Olympic rival. 
And a published report in the Detroit Free Press today quoted an unidentified source as saying that Harding's ex­husband, Jeff Gillooly, was try­ing to cut a deal on his conspir­acy charge by implicating Harding. 
SMC 
continued from page 16 
good. 
"The team is now beginning to feel the affects of the season which will be remedied by the beginning of a tapering period which will start next week," Janson said. 
As for tonight's meet, the team has had ample time to re­cover from Saturday's meet, he added. 
The energy level is high going into this meet which the team hopes will combat an an­ticipated angry attitude from Kalamazoo, which suffered a bitter loss last Saturday to Lake 

Juniors! 
JPW Seating 
Reservations 
(For the Dinner and Brunch) 
Jan. 24, 25, 26 4·9pm Rm. 112 CCE 
You MUST BE REGISTERED (WITH PAYMENT) TO RESERVE SEATING! 
Check mail for information letter. 
Questions? Call JPW Office 631-6028 
of five field hockey club mem­hers joining the lawsuit. 
The other plaintiffs are members of the women's soft­ball, lacrosse and crew clubs. The lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court in Roanoke by the National Women's Law Center on behalf of all women who want to participate in varsity athletics at Virginia Tech. 
Club members must pay their own way to travel to their games, are given access to equipment only after the varsity 
Deputy District Attorney Norm Frink said today he had not heard that report, and had no comment on it. 
Meanwhile, Harding skated out with a video camera at practice today and taped pho­tographers who crowded. one end of the rink. 
"How do you like it?" she asked. 
Harding's attorney released a statement today saying he believes it would be unjust if Harding was removed from the Olympic team "on the basis of unproven charges." 
USFSA executive director Jerry Lace said Monday night that he has canceled a trip to Portland to gather inside in­formation on the Jan. 6 attack in Detroit on 1992 Olympic bronze medalist Nancy Kerri-
Forest College, Janson said. 
"As a whole, the team is feel­ing good about themselves. They are not too vocal about it, but it is obvious in the way they work," Janson said. "I can see the spark and drive we need to put out that extra effort to do well." 
"We do our best when we know it will be a close meet," Rose confirmed. "We really pull together and the spirit and 
CORRECTION 
In the Saint Mary's basket­ball game on Monday, senior Anne Mulcahy scored 23 points for the Belles, not freshman Katy Lalli. The 
Observer regrets the error. 

teams are finished and cannot receive athletic scholarships. 
The Blacksburg school has women's varsity basketball, soccer, track, volleyball, tennis, cross country and swimming teams. 
But the lawsuit said women make up 41 percent of Virginia Tech's enrollment and only 21 percent of varsity athletes. The lawsuit asks the court to order the university to elevate the women's clubs to intercolle­giate teams. 
The lawsuit alleges that Vir­

gan. 
"We felt we couldn't get any additional information the pub­lic couldn't get," Lace said from his home in Payton, Colo. "Consequently, it was of no value to us to go up there." 
Lace refused to comment on what prosecutors have told him about the case, but said the association wasn't feeling pressured to decide whether Harding will remain on the team going to the Winter Olympics next month in Lillehammer, Norway. 
The association has until Monday to submit the team roster to the U.S. Olympic Committee, but can make sub­stitutions up until Feb. 21, when skaters draw their turns for performing. The grand jury investigating the attack is due to report Feb. 3. 
energy levels rise." 
The team is also looking to their fans for a push. 
"This is the closest meet of our season and it will help to have a little extra support in the stands," Janson said. 
John Mele 
Bill Kempf 

ginia Tech's athletic program violates Title IX of the Educa­tion Amendments of 1972, the federal law prohibiting sex dis­crimination in education, and the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment. 
In October, an internal re­view concluded that Virginia Tech spends a disproportion­ately small amount of resources on women's sports. 
At a board of visitors meeting Feb. 14, a study committee 

is looking for writers, reporters, layout assistants, and contributors for this year's issues, and an editor for next year. Undergraduate research papers and reports on guest lectures or topics of current interest in science are welcome. If interested, please attend a meeting to be held at 182 Nieuwland Science Hall on Thursday, 27 January at 7 p.m. Any questions call William Lorie @ 4-3000 or 1-5757. 
JANUARY 29, 1994 STEPAN CENTER 8:00P.M. 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER Tickets are on Sale for $3.00 at the Lafortune Info Desk and through Stanford Hall 
intends to present a plan to address the inequities over the next five years, Virginia Tech spokesman Larry Hincker said. 
"We believe we have been making good progress toward gender equity," he said. "We believe the plan will address their concerns," he said of the plaintiffs. 
Virginia Tech in the past two years has upgraded salaries of women's sports coaches and increased spending on women's sports by $140,000. 
-------~----------­
Wednesday, January 26, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 



-..... 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE  
ATofn•<-rY\vs11 R-oo(Y'I CLOvt>· l3£At'S tVER-jTilINC.. \~0-_·"' . -.'~ '  
CROSSWORD  

ACROSS 33 Calhoun of "The 65 It's nothing Texan" &&Split-­
t Like Caspar 
34 Swiss 

67 Ottoman: Prefix 
Milquetoast 
mathematician 

6 Yodeling locale 68 South-of-the­
35 Son-gun link 

border shouts
10 Quantities: 
38 Dr. Seuss 

Abbr. 69 Catch some Z's
classic t4 City south of 70 Torpedoes
42 Da or ja

Gainesville 
43 Onetime pupa

15 Chip's partner 
44Austen's 
DOWN

t& Attack of the flu 
Woodhouse 11 Hook's flag 45 Duchamp t Axis leader t9 Florence's river subject 2 Macintosh 20 Like some 46 Gym class, for screen symbol shopping short 3 Type of 21 Just say no? 48 "Siddhartha" bonding? 23 Grp. founded in author 4 Miseries 1960 52 Stat starter 5 Wright brothers' 
25 Present, for one 54 Craftsperson home 
26 Antiknock 57 Short vocal solo 6 See 18-Down number 62 "Jurassic Park" 7 Jet follower 30--and beast, for short a No contest, e.g. hounds 63 Ocean denizen 9 Belgrade resident .......................... tOCutdown 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE tt Notorious Bugs 12_ City near the ruins of 


JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
I 
I 
~ 
l 
"' 
BILL WATTERSON 


~ES-(X Covi'-'>E. \C.. mv~-~~~.oot'Y) Ct_oV't>. 
1-\ow 'S1LL'1 o~ (Yle_. 

~===---00 
-. 

American Heart 

> 
-. 


-~ ~~ 

SPORTS 

.­
By BARRY WILNER 
Associared Press 
ATLANTA 
Here's one for all those Bills­haters who dread the idea of seeing Buffalo represent the AFC for a fourth straight time in the Super Bowl: too bad. 
Face it, folks, these Buffalo Bills are a great team. 

.. 
Their unprecedented three successive Super flops are well­known. So is the fact that also know that the Bills are the first team to advance to four Super Bowls in a row -the first to even come close to doing it, actually -and that's the first 
measure of greatness. 
From 1933 until 1969, when it was the NFL, only the wartime Chicago Bears and the Cleveland Browns of the early 1950s got into four consecutive 
·title games; the Browns made six from 1950-55. Chicago was 3-1 and Cleveland was 2-3 in those NFL championship games. 
The 1970-73 Dallas Cowboys got to the NFC finals, going 2-2. All of them ar-e considered 
great teams. In the 33 seasons as either the AFL or AFC, only the 
Oakland Raiders got to the title game as many as four con­secutive years. They did it from 1967-70, and went 1-3. Again, from 1973-77, the Raiders got to the conference championship game-and went 1-4. 
The Bills are 4-0 in the 1990s with the AFC title on the line. 
Because the Raiders won a Super Bowl in that span, they often are considered among the all-time best teams. Because the Bills haven't, they aren't. 
"We've been a team which has won a lot of games," says coach Marv Levy. "We won more games in the 1990s than any other team. We've played in 10 playoff games and won seven of them. Unfortunately, the three we didn't win were the three Super Bowl games. 
"It's been a tremendously resilient football team and I admire that in our players. They've bounced back from a lot of disappointments. They've come back with a lot of come­back victories. I see good things in our players. I like them and I like what they're made of. As a result, I think they maximize 
see BILLS I page 12 
YT 

Women's Rights The Virginia Tech athlet­ic department was served with a lawsuit charging discrimination. 
see page 14 

Wednesday, January 26, 1994 
No. 2 Duke difficult test for slun1ping Irish 
By JASON KELLY 
Associare Spons Editor 
It isn't the ideal remedy for Notre Dame's basketball blues. 
But an impressive perfor­mance tonight against No. 2 Duke would be a big shot in the arm for a team desperate to find a light at the end of a very long tunnel. 
"We play Duke on Wednesday and Providence on Saturday," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "Duke is the No. 2 team and Providence is one of the best in the Big East. We're not exactly going into these games on a positive note." 
That's like MacLeod saying his hair isn't exactly straight. 
Four consecutive losses have turned Notre Dame's season from hope to horror, and Duke is as frightening as any Irish opponent this season. 
Senior do-it-all Grant Hill paces the Blue Devils attack along with classmate Antonio Lang. 
Junior center Cherokee Parks is growing into a dominant in­side player and sophomore Chris Collins has been a more than capable compliment from long range. 
The result is a better than ex­pected 13-1 mark and the lofty No. 2 ranking after eight of the top ten teams lost last week. 
Duke's only loss came on a disputed 3-point shot against Wake Forest on January 13. 
Notre Dame's losses haven't been disputed, although many have been disappointing. 
The Irish have shot less than 40 percent in their last two games and appear to be headed for a fate similar to last year's 9-18 disappointment. 
Even if the Irish play a perfect game against Duke a win is un­likely. However, they have played some of their best bas­ketball of the season against top 25 teams. 
Notre Dame made Arizona sweat in the Maui Classic and turned in a solid effort against Kentucky. Both ended as lop­sided losses, but not without some encouraging signs. 
A similar performance tonight, even if it ends in a loss, would lift the team's sinking spirits. 
"This is the worst feeling there is," sophomore guard Ryan Hoover said after Mon­day's loss to Loyola . 
The positive side of that re­mark is that there is nowhere to go but up. 
But playing Duke isn't exactly a springboard to success. 
SM C swimming up for challenge 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
With the right combination of strategy, speed, and spirit, the odds will be in favor of the Saint Mary's swim team as they meet their stiffest compe­tition of the season tonight against Kalamazoo College. 
Coming away from a win last Saturday against Hillsdale Col­lege, the Belles are confident that the nervousness and ex­citement surrounding tonight's meet is just what they need to up their 2-2 dual meet record. 
"We are aware of the tough competition and it is making us a little more nervous than usual, but the adrenaline from the anticipation will push us to swim faster," sophomore Jill Cooper said. 
;·coach Janson has r·eally prepared us for this meet," captain Megan Hurley added. "He has told us what to expect so we know what to do and how to win it." 
Recent little improvements in race strategy, pace, sprinting speed and times have all been building the team's momentum for tonight's match with Kala­mazoo, coach Greg Janson said. 
Inside SPORTS 

Struggling Bc~arcats The Cincinnati basketball team is having trouble in the competitive Great Midwest conference 
see page 10 
"I am expecting general overall improvement, and tonight's competition is what we need to make this im­provement," Janson said. 
Janson expects Kalamazoo to push the Belles in the 100 and 200 meter backstroke. These events will especially challenge backstroker Katie Rose. 
"Kalamazoo has a couple of swimmers who are about where Katie is, maybe a little slower," Janson said. "This will be good for her." 
"The competition will be good. It will make me work," Rose said. "I am a little ner­vous, but I am more excited to see how I will compete." 
Janson also expects to see Teresa Popp improve against close competition in the 50 and 100 meter freestyle. 
In addition to seeing im­provement pay off, the team is also excitedly awaiting team­mate Jill Cooper's return to the 100 and 200 breaststroke, Jan­son commented. Cooper has only been swimming only but­terfly in recent meets due to a pulled leg muscle. 
"The injury gave me a chance to get my mind off breaststroke for a little while so now I can really focus on it," Cooper said. "I am excited because I am ready to go fast." 
Janson hopes that improved performance in practice will raise the team's confidence level enough to allow them to push themselves as well as the other team. 
"Everyone has been swim­ming fast in practice, almost as fast as in meets, so times should come down a lot," Cooper explained. "Also, coach Janson switched people around in events so we will be more evenly matched." 
The team will be making their first appearance of the season in the 400 meter indi­vidual medley. They expect to perform well based on their practices and good endurance, Janson said. 
Swimming this event for Saint Mary's will be Jen Gustafson, Jen Mitchell, Katie Rose and Megan Hurley. 
"We've been practicing the 400 meter I.M. for the past couple of weeks so I am anx­ious to see how I'll do in it," Hurley said. 
The team is beginning to be­come a little fatigued overall, but their muscles are feeling 
see SMC I page 14 
Big Ten Showdown Judd Heathcote's MSU Spartans look to run and gun against Ohio State. 
see page 11 









