
Wednesday, February 9, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 86 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Candidates try to answer questions as campaign ends 
By PATTI CARSON 
News Writer 
BOG (Board of Governance ) members voted on whether or not to grant Saint Mary's stu­dents two new clubs at last night's meeting. 
The Homeless Shelter Chil­dren's Group was officially given Saint Mary's club status, 
!:Htr1jlll11lfln'J=imMlH. 
according to Student Body President Mary Beth Wilkinson. This group of approximately 40 students is planning an outing to the park when the weather gets warmer. 
The Notre Dame Pre-Vet Club, which was seeking club status on the Saint Mary's cam­pus, will resubmit an applica­tion next semester. This group is invited to Student Activities Night at Saint Mary's. If enough interest in the Pre-Vet Club is aroused, BOG will re­consider the proposal for club status. 
In Other Business: 
•The Freshman class is plan­ning a spring break shopping trip to the Michigan City outlet mall on Feb. 26. Buses leave at 10 a.m. and the cost is $6 per person. Only 94 seats are available and the deadline to purchase tickets is Thursday. Contact Emily Ruffner for more information. 

•The Storybook Festival volunteer meeting is Feb. 17 at 
5:30 p.m. in the Haggar Game Room. Even those who have not yet signed up are welcome and encouraged to attend. 

•BOG discussed the possibili­ty of purchasing a fax machine. The board members also talked about ways in which to enhance internship programs and graduate school program knowledge. 
Unica Resource and Volun­teer Center (S.U.R.V.) is plan­ning to meet monthly to hear various speakers from places such as the Homeless Shelter and the Hope Rescue Mission. The group also hopes to coordi­nate other activities this semes­ter along with the distribution of a newsletter. 
•Board members discussed staff appreciation day T -shirts. Next week, BOG will discuss a particular day on which to cele­brate this event. 
ways of past student govern-

Hungeling: 
ment administrations. 
h 

Bryan Corbett and Karen Wi11 t eyDuBay -student government veterans -ran a long second ~
11 d • 

on a platform stressing more rea y 0 1t. conventional ideas and a con-
By DAVID KINNEY 
tinuation ofcurrent programs. 

Editor-in-Chief
The Observer takes one last look at each ticket with an eye 
One question seems to beg
to addressing student con-

for an answer. 
cerns about both sets ofcandi­

'Can they do it? Can David dates and answering the Hungeling and Matt Orsagh questions the remain to be bring the Grateful Dead to cam­asked. pus, get students free Notre 
Dame football tickets and essentially dissolve student government?' 
'Will they really try to do it?' 
might be a better question. Or, 'Does it matter?' Hungeling and Orsagh have 
won a measure of success on one of the more unusual plat­forms in recent years. Among the ideas: 
• 
Strip student government of about $50,000 culled from the administration, public relations and special projects budgets, then give the money to Student Union Board. With .that money. they would push for a Grateful Dead concert on campus, or at least here in South Bend. 

• 
Push for a $2 increase in general admission tickets to Notre Dame football games. The added revenue would allow students to get their tick­ets free. 

• 
End all projects that are not fun, including Board of Trustees reports and The 



David Hungeling see HUNGELING I page 4 



Brazilian democratic system fails 
Corbett reaches out 
to students 
By DAVID KINNEY Editor-in-Chief 
Bryan Corbett and Karen DuBay are tired of people telling them that student gov­ernment doesn't do anything. 
In fact, they say, it is involved in more projects than most realize, from the Women's Resource Center to class pro­grams. "If student government is dissolved, students don't realize what they are going to miss." they wrote in a state­ment after Monday's election. 
So when Corbett and DuBay heard the election reports Monday night, they re-thought their strategy. No longer would they just push their platform. They wanted to discredit their opponents. 
"If you thought the adminis­tration was bad with student government, wait until you eliminate it and students have no voice in what happens to them," they wrote. 
Corbett and DuBay are very much in the mold of recent stu­dent government administra­tions, including this year's Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellman. 
They've moved through the ranks of student service, as class presidents, committee representatives and hall presi­dents. They've worked with other students and the admin-
see CORBETT I page 4 
After a week of campaign­ing. one debate and thou­sands ofwords. the election of 
next year's student body pres­ident and vice president 
comes down to a vote today between candidates on two poles. 
David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh -relative newcomers to the campus political scene -took more than 43 percent ofthe vote in Monday's gener­al election with a platform pushing a change from the 

Bryan Corbett 
BOG authorizes service oriented club for SMC 
By LAUREN AIMONETTE 
News Writer 
Brazil, prior to 1980, had a robust growth rate, but has be­come the one country in Latin America that has not adjusted and whose inflation is still in­creasing rapidly, according to Scott Mainwaring of the Kellogg Institute, department of gov­ernment and international studies. 
The escalating inflation rate, combined with a decreasing per capita income and decreas­ing investment per capita over the last four years, lends proof to the claim that the Brazilian democratic system is failing. he said. 
The constitutional powers of the president are impressive, maintained Mainwaring, but there is difficulty in the retain­ing of results. 
Five factors contribute to the lack of results, but perhaps the most prevalent problem is the overwhelming power of Congress and state and local governments, Mainwaring said. 
The states can effectively push the national government to succumb to their respective desires. Presently the states receive a share of the national tax revenues that is at least double their share in the 1970's, according to Mainwar­ing. 

The power of the state gov­ernments, the uneven repre­sentation of the smaller states on the Congress level and the decree that Congress must give their okay on ordinary legisla­ture lead to an institutional ar­rangement of a federalism problem in Brazil, Mainwaring said. 
Four other institutional ar­rangements that have created difficulties for the new democ­racy include the presence of weak political parties, the polarization of political parties, the extremely fragmented party system, and the problem of presidentalism, he said. 
Mainwaring explained that presidentalism makes it more difficult to handle coalition building among the parties, thus leading to an inability for a president to form a base of sup­port. 
In an effort to gather support, many prospective government officials use the system of pa­tronage. Because the federal government has proved itself largely incapable of implement­ing policies it claims to support, it has lost its credibility, according to Mainwaring. 
Failure of the government to succeed in efforts to open the Brazilian market, collect on in­terest on loans, change the cur­rent tax system, or break the system of wage indexation, has lead to the people's general ex­pectation that the government "will not come through," he said. 
Speaking of the fragmented and polarized party system, Mainwaring referred the audi­ence to statistics showing Brazil as having more fragmentation in parties than any other democracy in South America. 

This extreme fragmentation and the added problem of polarization makes coalition building all the more difficult because of ideological differ­ences amongst the parties, he said. 
"The system is so unman­ageable," said Mainwaring," that even a 'good' president could merely muddle through." 
Mainwaring's lecture entitled "Political Institutions and Democratic Failure in Brazil" took place yesterday in the Hesburgh Center for Interna­tional Studies. 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February 9, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN NATION AT AGLANCE 



Sega: The child lure of the nineties 
I should have known better when Adam, my next door neighbor and fellow Chicagoan brought his Sega back after Christmas break. It was a novelty at first-World Cup Soccer, Pat Riley Basketball, Bulls Vs. Blazers, a game of Sonic here and there-but Associare News Ediror 
nothing serious. 
Yeah, the pessimists down the hall in 324 predicted doom for every­one. "You guys are gonna fail," they ~ould come in and yell. We knew the nsks. Everybody talked about the the rumors and the disease-"Mandatory half-point point drop in your GPA," somebody said. 
I thought I could control myself. I've orga­nized my time carefully, I reasoned-class, work, studying. A few games here and there aren't going to mess with my life. 
Then I met NHL Hockey '93-'94. The guys at home all messed around with it a little bit. Summer nights when everybody got bored, we'd pile in the car and head over to Blockbuster to rent it. It was just fun then­pretty harmless stuff. A way to waste warm nights when nobody felt like playing basketball at the park. 
As the weeks went by, it started to get more and more serious, though. After toying around with a bunch of different teams, I rmally real­ized my loyalty lay at home, with Ed Belfour and the mighty Chicago Blackhawks. I began to develop my skills, practicing the art of checking, one-timers and backhand shots, 
After a while, you could walk by room 327 and be guaranteed of hearing cheering, screaming, and the whining siren, indicating that a goal had just been scored. 
The computer even knew the Hawks fight song, and dang if I couldn't stop singin~ it.. I kept hearing it everywhere. I would be enJoymg the pleasures of the Pasta Bar at the dining hall and suddenly burst out singing "Here come the Hawks, the mighty Blaaack-hawks!" 
After a few weeks, nothing mattered. I forgot about classes and stopped answering phone calls. As long as the little Sega Jeremy Roenick was putting the puck into the net with regulari­ty, I was riding high. 
Well, things started to get ugly. After a co~­troversial overtime goal in a big Boston-Detrmt showdown, the clowns from across the hall started pushing and shoving. "I never win in overtime!" one yelled in a thick New England accent, as he started swinging his fists. 
Last week, Adam got angry. "Where's Mike?" Adam would ask, searching for his roommate. "Uh, not here, I think," someone would answer, briefly lifting his eyes from t~e glowing screen. "You don't mind us using th1~ thing when you're not home, do you Adam? Adam frowned and threw us out. 
The other night we even had to stop playing because Mike had a test to study for-"What do you think the library's for?" Boston Boy screamed in his goofy "clam chowdah" accent. "The study lounge is down the hall!" 
Well, I'm definitely on the road to recovery from "Sega sickness." Through a tremendous use of willpower, I've gone cold turkey. I haven't played in four days. I've been going to class on a regular basis again. My professors told me how good I look-I seem to be regain­ing a little color. Yesterday I opened one of my books. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 

JUDAY'S STAFF 

Kodak shrinks digital camera 
NEW YORK 

The Associated Press and Eastman Kodak Co. today 
announced they had developed a digital camera that 
closely resembles the size and portability of one using 
mm. 
The NewsCamera 2000 does not use external batteries 
and cables that were cumbersome for many news pho­
tographers. . . . 
The companies have also Improved the hghtmg, color 
and storage capabilities of the machine over previous 
generations of digital cai?eras. . 
A digital, or electromc, camera stores an Image the 
same way computers store data. With such a camera, no 
chemical processing of mm is required, saving time for 
photographers trying to meet a deadline. 
An image can be taken and transmitted on a network 
within a few minutes. 
The machine is a modified Nikon 35 mm camera with 
a pack at the bottom for batterr and stor~ge diskette. 
Each diskette can hold 60 to 70 Images, which can then 
be viewed on a personal computer. 
"The name of the product really sums up the mar­
ket " said David Tomlin, director of technology market­
ing' for the AP. "But we are sure there are applications 
outside news such as law enforcement, science and med­
icine and a variety of corporate environments where 
speed and quality are important." 
The camera has a list price of $17,7 50 but will be 
available to members of The Associated Press, a cooper­
ative of more than 1,500 U.S. newspapers, for $16,500. 
Castro comments on Clinton's affairs 
NEW YORK 

Conjecture about President Clinton's sexual history is a violation of his human rights. That's the word from Fidel Castro. "It's an interference in his personal life," the Cuban leader said in the March issue of Vanity Fair. On the other hand, noted Castro, "There are many countries where it is a good idea 
' for the candidate in order to be elected to have a lot of girlfriends, where being · . a womanizer is a virtue.' Castro, long fodder for romantic legend, was asked how many children he has. "Well, I don't have a tribe," he laughed. "Not that much. Fewer than a dozen." He paused. "I think." 
Jewelry back with the economy 
NEW YORK 

The sparkle has returned to the jewelry industry after years of, well, lusterless sales. An improved economy, repeal of the luxury tax and new marketing options, such as home-shopping television, are behind the tur~around, which began a year ago. • 'I think the confidence m wear­ing jewelry is coming bac.k,.''. said Simo? '!'e,akle, ~ho heads the U.S. jewelry diVISIOn of Chnstie s auctwn house where 1993 sales rose 25 percent over the previ­ous y~ar.Teakle says consumers not only are buyi.ng more baubles and bangles but have become savvier about what's available. Many may know, for instance, that the finest red rubies come from Burma, that Mexican opals are fiery orange and that diamonds ~cc.ur n.at~rally in nearly every color of the rainbow.Yet distmgui~hmg a ruby from a red spinel, an emerald from a tsavonte gar­net or even 10 karat gold from 14 karat gold can be ext;emely difficult. This lack of expertise -along with the availability of lab-grown synthetics and imitations resem­bling the real thing but usually worth less -can leave the average buyer vulnerable to unscrupulous dealers or suppliers. 
· Say it and phone it 
New computer technologies are emerging that recognize the human voice and dial aphone number automatically when the caller says the name of the person being called. Here's how the system by Sprint Corp. works compared with current calling card technology: 
Using a caJJing card now 
1 Dial "0" and the area 9 Wait for automated 3 Dial credit 
• code and phone ..... command. • • card number. number being called. 

Using Sprint Corp.'s Voice Foncard ......._.J''\/ /\j /\,;;-·-·-~ 
j Dial Sprint's • 800 number. 

":1 Automated ;:;• operator says: "Place call. 

2 Caller speaks access code, which is ..... social security number plus one more dig~. Computer verifies by , 
comparing caller's voice :X.'/zJ-45.6-789.5"
print to one previously ~--­
recorded by account holder. If they match . . . • ~ ·. ._.;·.. 
tJ Caller speaks nama of person or 5 Automated 
• place being called. Computer • 
operator says; verifies voice ~in, "Calling . • 
this lime matching it cl".Be.
tty"
to apreviously 

t;'-­

recorded phone ­
number 11$1. • • , ~ 
. . ...:...': ::.. .. . 
.·.)/ 

Source• Sprlnl Corp. AP/Bob Bianchini 
USAir cuts rates up to 70 percent 
NEW YORK 

USAir lopped up to half the price off some bu~iness tickets and 70 percent off leisure fares Tuesday m re­sponse to pressure from Continental Airlines' .che~per rates.The lower prices, which apply to 96 destmatwns, are not a sale but new fares USAir will charge for the mostly short-to medium-haul routes, airline spokesman Dave Shipley said. Continental said it would match USAir's prices on routes where they compete. Several other major carriers said they were studying the reduc­tions and likely would match them on routes where they compete. Most of the destinations are on the East ~oast. The move is a direct response to low-fare competitors, including Continental, which has introduced cheaper fares for more than half its daily departures. 
"Razzies" awarded instead of Oscars 
LOS ANGELES 

"Indecent Proposal" and "Sliver" led nominees for the 14th annual Razzie Awards, which salute the worst in movie making. "The Razzies like to call themselves a banana peel on the floor for the movie business, rather than a slap in the face," John Wilson, president of the Golden Raspberry Awards Foundation, said Tue~day. "Their basic intent is to be humorous."The nommees were announced on the eve of Wednesday's Academy Award nominations. The Golden Raspberry Awards will be announced March 20. a day before the Oscars. Nominees and winners never show up for their Razzie trophies, a golfball-size raspberry atop a film reel that's painted gold. It's worth $1.97, Wilson said. The box office hit "Indecent Proposal" and the Sharon Stone thriller "Sliver" had seven nominations each. Arnold Schwarzenegger's megabudget bomb "Last Action Hero" and "Body of Evidence," starring Madonna, followed with six apiece. All four films were nominated as the year's worst picture, along with "Cliffhanger," starring Sylvester Stallone. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 9. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
llndianapoli3 22° I 
• 

OHIO 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Wealher. Inc. 
Pressure ~ ~ r""\ 
H L B &'SJ !Til 0 l2J 8¥ L-i~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via~tadPress 
H L Atlanta 70 54 Denver 33 9 New York 22 14 Baltimore 28 28 Kansas City 15 10 Philadelphia 25 20 Boston 13 9 Los Angeles 63 53 Phoenix 63 51 Chicago 17 14 Miami 77 72 St. Louis 28 24
,

Colombus 28 17 Minneapolis ·9 San Francisco 61 46 Dallas 79 64 New Orleans 80 65 Seattle 36 22 
News Mary Good Berh Regan 
Sports Tim Sherman Viewpoint Brian Seiler 

Lab Tech Macy Hueckel Production Susan Marx Cheryl Moser Nora Buckley Graphics Brendan Regan 



page3 

HPC works for extended 24 hour areas on campus 


Practice makes perfect 
Juniors Marc Hedahl and Jen Andre practice during auditions for the Junior One Acts. Try-outs will con­tinue tonight in Montgomery Theater in Lafortune Student Center. 
<-:=-~~i~ ..tf~~­
;" ""'"""~ ­

Wtilt.crfcs-t /--\\ 
Thursday, Feb. 10-Intradonn Snow Sculpting 
Contest 
CIJSIOM..GENERAL& MAJOR

Friday, Feb. 11-All night movies-
CLEANING 

Grown-up Fairy tales 8pm-3am 
SPECIAUZING IN: 
FlNE HOMES • OFF1CES

Saturday, Feb.l2-Mardi Gras Party 
AI'ARTMENTS e COl\Uff;J{CI.U. 

LaFortune Ballroom 9pm-1am 
INSURED • BONDED REFERENCES AVAILABLE

Sunday, Feb.l3-Free Skating at the JACC A 2:30-4:30pm Skate Rental included ~ FREE ESTIMATESV Questions?? Call the S.U.B. Hotline atl-6171 ~ 
"CARPET CLEA!'\ING A \'AIL\BLE" 
PRONE! (119)134--6941 

~~--------------------------'®
Thanks for your patience during our "Under the Weather" week of January 14 ..21. Louisville was "shut down" and our trucks couldn't get to us. 
So enjoy ... 
1 ... 14" Large Cheese Pizza 

00 
(additional toppings 95¢) 
Offer Good 

271~1177 The Most Popular Nwnh?r 
Thru an Campus! 4.-13.-94 
By JOSLIN WARREN News Writer 
Tremendous support is need­ed if an expansion of 24-hour social areas is to become a reality, according to Student Body Vice-President Nikki Wellman. 
Student Government is spon­soring "Late Night at the Hud­
1 I tollI Q;1 fiII] iNfJijnlJNBII 
die" in which the hours of the first floor of Lafortune will be extended until 3 a.m. starting Monday, February 21 through the end of the semester. 
The television in the dining area of the Huddle will be showing two movies at 11 p.m. and 1 a.m. every night and during the first week Notre Dame Food Services will be sponsoring free popcorn. 
"We have to show that there is a need for this stuff and it's really important that everyone take advantage of this," said Wellman. 
Student government is also working to extend the hours of the Oak Room as well. 
On February 21 at 5:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Con­cerns lecture room, an accredi­tation committee will be hold­ing a conference to listen to the concerns of students. 
"The committee comes every ten years to speak to students and get reactions about collilo­quy and get feedback on what's going on with our university," said Hall Presidents' Council Co-Chairman Chris Canzoniero. 
Students can voice their con­cerns and the committee will make recommendations to the university based on these con­cerns. 
"Any particular concerns can be brought up here and they will take them to the univer­sity," said HPC Advisor Gayle Spencer. 
In other HPC news, volun­teers are still needed to help in the presentation of the Aids Quilt. Men, in particular, are needed in the setup and tear down of the event. 
"People have worked really hard to get the Aids Quilt to campus and it's going to be an exciting event and we need a great deal of support," said Spencer. 
• 
Pasquerilla West is selling Valentine's Day carnations for $1 at North and South Dining Halls all this week. Flowers will be delivered on Sunday to anyone living on campus at St. Mary's or Notre Dame. The money raised will go to the Tara Deutsh Memorial Fund. 

• 
Junior Class Play auditions are continuing tonight from 8:30-10:30 p.m. in Montgomery Theater in Lafortune. The show consists of four one-act plays. No talent is needed to audition, but you do have to be a junior. 


Arrive alive... ...Don't drink and drivel 

The excitement is building for our new, upscale dinner house serving outstanding steaks, prime rib and seafood. 
NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS 
We're looking for energetic, dynamic individuals who share our enthusiasm for the business. "Mountains" of experience not necessary. Working a flexible schedule in our exciting environment, you will receive: 
Generous Pay • Health Insurance Meal Discount • Profit Sharing Stock Purchase Plan 
Time is running out -don't miss your chance to get on board! For an immediate interview, please apply at 6402 N. Grape Road (formerly Jeremiah Sweeney's), Mishawaka, Daily, 9am-7pm. (Please use East entrance, ~t~ at rear of building).lnterviews endThursday, Feb. 1Oth, tr.umng starts Friday, Feb. 11th. 
Opening March fst!/11 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 9, 1994 
Kelso covers up sexual ntisconduct at Tailhook Convention 
By JOE TAYLOR 
AssociaredPress 
NORFOLK 
Adm. Frank B. Kelso II was accused by a military judge Tuesday of witnessing sexual misconduct in the 1991 Tail-hook scandal and trying to cover it up. The judge dis­missed charges against three aviators who contended their cases were tainted by the Navy chiers ac~ions. 
The Judge, Navy Capt. William T. Vest Jr., also ac-

Hungeling 
continued from page 1 
Guide. They originally pro­posed that the student govern­ment office consist of only two phones, one to receive calls from students and another to harass the administration about student concerns. 
But if they are elected, will they really try to do it? Hungeling admitted he and Orsagh have recently changed their perspective on how they would run student government. 
"The second that we get into office, we become part of the institution and we'll have to compromise," he said. "I hope we'll get the support of student government." 
Can they carry out their plat­form? Probably not, at least under current governing docu­ments, the Constitution of the Undergraduate Student Body and its bylaws. 
Much of what a president does requires the approval of the Student Senate, a body composed of 15 voting mem­bers elected either by the stu­dent body or by .this year's Senate. 
If the ticket's "grass roots, campus-wide social movement" is as widespread as they say, Hungeling and Orsagh could support candidates with similar intentions for several positions that include Senate member­ship. 
If next year's Senate ­including the four senators 

2226 MISHAWAKA AVE. S01.JTII BEND, IN -4-6615 
(219) 287,2955 

cused the Navy's top brass of not paying attention to in­stances of sexual misconduct at earlier Tailhook meetings. 
Had they done so, Vest said, "a high probability exists that both the assaults and much of the Navy's embarrassment could have been avoided." 
The dismissals leave only one case pending in the investigation of the scandal that damaged the Top Gun image of Navy and Marine Corps avia­tors. Of 140 cases, no one was _ ever court-martialed and about 50 received administrative dis-
themselves, hall presidents and class representatives -is sym­pathetic to their causes, imple­mentation might be feasible. But if whatever "machinery" they have fails and they do not have supporters on the Senate and its Budget Committee, their program would falter. 
But a larger question looms. Would the administration allow it? 
For example, an advisor to the Senate Budget Committee is Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities. And all activities pro­posed by SUB must go through at least four administrative agencies, including student activities and student affairs. 
The idea of a Grateful Dead concert in South Bend could still work, but only if Hungeling and Orsagh could get an out­side promoter to plan the event. 
Students supporting Hungeling and Orsagh say the ticket is a welcome change. They are tired of the same pro­posals year after year that either are not implemented or are simply not important to them. 
"I think that everyone is aware that they (the proposals) are completely long shots," Hungeling said. "It's not like we're trying to win by saying 'What is it that students want that we can give them?'" 
In the end, the feasibility of their plans may not matter to the voters choosing Hungeling and Orsagh. In the end, the candidates' supporters may just be voting for change for change's sake. 
,-----------------,
1 CASH&CARRY SPEOAL 1 
:  ROSES$37.50dozen  :  
:  FREE  :  
:  MYLAR BAllOON  :  
II  with ClOUpOil ond pun:h3oe ci doom roocs  II  
I  I  
I  2226 ~A­ ap-1/1Jt94  I  

~-----------------~ 
FREE Delivery of anything with prepayment by 2110/94! 
I • • • • • • • • • • • • 

CongratuCations on your engagement 
cipline. 

"That fact that here it is over two years later and nothing has occurred, to me it's outra­geous," said Karen Johnson, national secretary for the Na­tional Organization for Women and a retired Air Force lieu­tenant colonel. 
Pentagon investigators con­cluded that 83 women were as­saulted or molested at the con­vention, many of them on the third flod'r of the Las Vegas Hilton, where men lined the hallway on Saturday night, 
Corbett 
continued from page 1 

istration on a variety of pro­jects. They know the ins and outs of student committees. 
They did their homework before the campaign, coming up with a few concrete ideas to present to students, research­ing past efforts at reform and running through them with the appropriate administrators. They've presented everything in polished posters and handouts for students. 
That's why they believe they are natural choices for student body president and vice presi­dent. But the results from Monday's election seem to be a message from students: 'That's just not enough.' 
Hungeling supporters have attacked Corbett and DuBay, accusing them of running too polished a campaign and using the offices to pad their resumes. They've said students want a change in the way stu­dent government works. 
Sept. 7, 1991, and grabbed women as they tried to pass. 
Kelso, chief of naval opera­tions, "manipulated the initial investigative process and the subsequent (discipline) process in a manner designed to shield his personal involvement in Tailhook '91," Vest wrote in his decision. 
The judge concluded that Kelso was "in error" when he testified that he didn't go to the third floor that Saturday night and didn't see any misconduct. 
"This court specifically finds Adm. Kelso visited the third 
But Corbett and DuBay insist they hear student concerns and that they plan to answer them. They say they want to use forums or hall council meetings to get a feel for the concerns of the average student. But Corbett admits that it is difficult to reach out to students who don't care. 
"Ideas never get out of the dorm room," he said. "You can­not blame that on student gov­ernment. The programs are there. The support from the administration is there. It has to be broken down to the dorm leaders and to the hall commis­sioners." 
Corbett and DuBay propose a number of ideas, both new and old, to solve student qualms: 
• 
The Pub would be a late­night club in LaFortune Student Center offering food and live entertainment on Thursdays and weekends. 

• 
A program dubbed "I.M.P.R.O.V.E." would provide a comprehensive library of internships and establish an alumni mentor system. The 


deck patio at some time during the evening hours," Vest wrote. 
"This court further finds Adm. Kelso was exposed to in­cidents of inappropriate behav­ior while on the patio on Satur­day evening, including public nudity and 'leg-shaving' activi­ties." 
Kelso, who is scheduled to retire in July, declined com­ment. The Navy was reviewing the decision and declined com­ment. 
Vest's ruling in the cases of Cmdrs. Thomas R. Miller and Gregory Tritt and Lt. David 
program is an effort to build on this year's job network. 
• 
DART restructuring would give students two times to reg­ister. The plan is an effort to ensure that no student is shut out of several classes because of a late DART time. 

• 
A Student Review would be an effort to replace The Guide with a combination of Teacher Course Evaluations and volun­tary student surveys. 


It is clear that the ticket approached the campaign from a different perspective than their opponents, using practical tactics. Equally clear is that student government under their administration would be very different. 
Corbett and DuBay spent Tuesday night trying to con-• vince voters that their oppo­nents' plans are unreasonable. But they were out to try to prove another point: that their version of student government would be responsive to stu­dents. 
Today, they find out if stu­dents think they could. 




Attention Juniorslll 
It's audition time for the Junior One-Act Plays. Auditions will be held 8:30-1 0:30 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday in Montgomery Theater. 
*No Acting Experience Necessary!* 


Dr. J. Clay Smith, Jr. 
Fonner Dean and Current Professor of Law at the Howard University School of Law 
"Justice and Jurisprudence and the Black Lawyer" 
Barry Courtroom, Notre Dame Law School Wednesday, February 9, 1994 at 2:00p.m. 


Wednesday, February 9, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
U.S. ends empty threats on Bosnia 
By DONALD M. ROTHBERG 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Six months after NATO au­thorized air strikes against the Bosnian Serbs, the United States is asking the alliance to do so again. And this time to mean it. 
The problem: how to make these new threats credible after countless previous warnings evaporated. NATO warplanes fly daily missions over Sarajevo, swooping low over the sur­rounding mountains from which gunners bombard the city. Never once have the planes unleashed their bombs. 
No more empty threats, President Clinton said Monday. 


Happy 2JH 


Bert! 
He said the same thing a month earlier. 
And six months earlier. In fact, for two years, U.S. leaders have warned the Serbs that if they didn't halt their aggres­sion, they'd suffer military re­taliation. 
Time and repetition dimin­ished the threats. The West was clearly reluctant to act and the Serbs knew it. 
The leader of Bosnia's be­sieged Muslims, Alija Izetbe­govic, met with Clinton in Au­gust, during another period when Serbs were being warned by the West. . 
At the time, Secretary of State Warren Christopher stood in a NATO air base hangar and intoned, "The military opera­
15 years of goalkeeping! 
Love­
Mom, Dad, Anne, Brad & Christy 
tion is ready." It may have been, but the pilots never left the ground. 
"Of course, threats cannot be credible for a long time if they're not followed by willing­ness to realize them," Izetbe­govic said then. 
''I'd really like to think we're going to make them move the guns this time," said Marshall Freeman Harris, who quit the State Department six months ago in frustration over the lack of action to help the Bosnian Muslims. 
"Clearly the intention of the administration is to issue an­other threat that's more credi­ble than the one at NATO last month and get the Serbs to re­spond." 
During a NATO summit in January, Clinton said that if the Western allies threaten the use of force in Bosnia, "we have to mean it." The president said whether air strikes were un­dertaken "depends upon the behavior of the Bosnian Serbs from this day forward." 
Since that day, shells have rained down upon Sarajevo, killing hundreds of civilians ­shoppers at an outdoor market. children playing in the snow. 
The tough talk began during the Bush administration. 
On July 9, 1992, President Bush told the Muslim president of Bosnia he would consider the use of U.S. air power against Serbian artillery shelling Sara­jevo. And so it continued until Bush left office and Clinton took over. 



Movie Ni2ht 
Once ztpon a time ... 
Kevin Costner, Julia Roberts, Robin Willian1s, and Robin Wright ...Brought your favorite Fairy Tales to life in: 
8:00 pm Robin Hood 
10:15 pm Pretty Woman 
12:15 am Aladdin 

1:45 am The Princess Bride 
Friday, February llin the LaFortune Ballroom FREE REFRESHMENTS 
It''s a FUN and FREE night with a HAPPY ENDING! 

Sarajevo observes Winter Games with death and rage 
By TONY SMITH 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

Ten years after welcoming the world's finest athletes to the 1984 Winter Games, Sarajevo marked the anniver­sary Tuesday by laying more war dead to rest in the shadow of its wrecked Olympic stadi­um. 
The stadium, now a base for French peacekeepers, has been ruined by Serb shelling from the hills ringing the capi­tal during a 22-month war that has killed more than 200,000 Serbs, Croats and Muslims. 
One shell Saturday killed 68 market-goers and Injured 200 others in Sarajevo. Serbs are suspected of firing the shell, but U.N. monitors cannot con­firm that, and the Serbs have denied it. 
It was perhaps no surprise that Sarajevo observed the an­niversary of its Winter Games with more funerals and rage at the Serb gunners who, according to one mourner, "have broken the Olympic record in murder." 
In the shadow of Zetra sta­dium, where the Olympic flame was lighted Feb. 8, 1984, 20 victims of the market massacre were laid in graves hacked from the hard-scrab­ble ground of a former soccer field. 
The stadium has been struck by Serb shells, many fired from cannon and mortar emplacements set up on ski slopes and bobsled runs on the Olympic heights surrounding the city. 
At a commemorative cere­mony in the national theater, a girl's choir called "The Snowflakes" -named for Sarajevo's Olympic emblem­lip-synched to "The Flame is Still Alive," the city's Olympic theme song. 
The mood among the 100 Sarajevans in attendance was dejected but dignified. The building's facade was battered by shelling, but its baroque gold and velvet interior is intact. 
"For the riders of the Apocalypse riding across our former Olympic fields, we are guilty only because we are Bosnians," said Mayor Muhamed Kresevljakovic. 
He bitterly invited mayors of other Olympic cities to visit "the city of love and death.... The biggest Olympic paradox in the world." 
It's doubtful dignitaries from such host Winter Olympic cities as Albertville, France (1992); Calgary, Alberta (1988); Lake Placid, N.Y. (1980); and Innsbruck, Austria (1976) could relate to what's happened to Sarajevo. 
Dozens of former Yugoslav Olympic team athletes are now fighting on the Bosnian Muslim side, said Izudin Filipovic, head of the Bosnian Olympic Committee. Five are fighting with the separatist Serbs, he said. 
About 10 Bosnian athletes are competing next week in the 1994 Winter Games in Lillehammer, Norway. 
"They have to fight three battles -to defend their country, for their athletic per­formance, and for their lives," Filipovic said. 
Alija Izetbegovic, the Bosnian president, promised in a letter to the International Olympic Committee that his Muslim-dominated forces would hold their fire during the games. 
The Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, made a similar promise two weeks ago, but his forces kept firing into the city. 
"During their Olympic truce, the Serbs have broken the Olympic record in mur­der," said Samir Hadzic, 29, who lost one of his best friends in the market shelling. 
Karadzic wrote Tuesday to Russian President Boris Yeltsin and President Clinton, urging them to back the Serb demand for an investigation of the massacre by U.N., Bosnian government and Serb experts. Such an inquiry is needed be­cause peace in the Balkans and in Europe is at stake, Karadzic argued. 
U.N. officials reject that sug­gestion . 
The Third Annual Breen-Phillips Hall 

Tonight! LaFortune Ballroom 7pmto2am 
Free admission-Donations accepted 
8 Starring Judy Hutchinson 8 
All proceeds go to the Catholic Worker House 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 9, 1994 
The Observer/John Bingham 
Comfortable in the computer lab 
Morrissey junior Brian McCandless works in the new Nieuwland computer lab. Since the lab was often over-crowded it was renovated over Christmas Break and now accomodates more students. 

Speculation surrounds legislator's death 
By AUDREY WOODS 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

The death of a promising Conservative Party legislator and reports that his body was found clad in women's under­wear have stunned the gov­ernment and left party officials struggling to limit the damage. 
Stephen Milligan was found dead Monday afternoon in his London house after associates had been unable to reach him all day. 
Police called the death suspi­cious but would not confirm or deny widespread newspaper reports that the 45-year-old bachelor was found wearing only women's stockings and a garter belt, with an electric 


Have management experience? Retail experience? 

SHIFT MANAGER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 

cord around his neck and a plastic bag over his head. 
Scotland Yard said they still hadn't determined the cause of death. 
Newspapers speculated about the sexual context of the death. Theories include murder and indulgence in the dangerous practice of starving oneself of oxygen to heighten sexual plea­sure. 
Some newspaper reports said he was strangled. Others said he suffocated. Still others said he was. found bound and gagged. 
Milligan's parliamentary sec­retary, Vera Taggert, found the body when she went to his house after he failed to show up at the House of Commons and did not answer the telephone. 
A former British Broadcast­ing Corp. journalist, Milligan won his seat in the 1992 gen­eral election and had already reached the first step up the ministerial ladder as parlia­mentary private secretary to Defense Minister Jonathan Aitken. 
"Stephen Milligan was a ris­ing parliamentary star," Aitken said. "His sterling character. his intellectual ability and his formidable talent as a commu­nicator had already marked him out for a distinguished po­litical career." 
Milligan had served in senior reporting posts for The Economist magazine, the BBC and The Sunday Times news­paper, where he became Washington correspondent and foreign editor. 
• Ser·vice • Community • Culture • Open ~11indedness • Prejudice 
Mir cosmonauts contact Pennsylvania middle school 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL 
Discovery's history-making cosmonaut called Mars on Tuesday. What's more, Mars answered. 
After two days of trying, Sergei Krikalev got through to students in Mars, Pa., via ham radio. 
"It was just like an amazing sensation, just talking to them," said Julia Dawson, a sixth-grader at Mars Area Middle School who came in with five other students even though classes were canceled because of the cold. 
The students asked Krikalev about the differences between the American and Russian space equipment and how he was chosen for the mission. 
Krikalev, who visited the school in 1989, had trouble un­derstanding some of the ques­tions, so astronaut Jan Davis answered for him. 
Earlier in the day, Krikalev exchanged greetings with his comrades on Russia's Mir space station as their space­craft zoomed around Earth half a world apart. 
"I hear you loud and clear. Can you hear me?" Krikalev asked the three Mir men. As his words were translated from Russian into English for the benefit of American TV view­ers. laughter erupted aboard Mir. 
"Sergei, why are you speak­ing English to us? Have you forgotten Russian?" one Mir cosmonaut asked jokingly. He was assured Krikalev indeed had spoken in Russian. 
Discovery was 210 miles over the South Pacific and Mir was flying at about the same altitude over the Caribbean when the crews linked via the airwaves for ABC's "Good Morning America." 
"We have flown for a long time with Sergei," Mir cosmo­naut Valery Polyakov said in Russian. "I just wanted to wish him successful work among his American colleagues and a safe return to Earth and a safe landing and future meetings." 
Krikalev, who has spent more than a year on Mir. is the first Russian cosmonaut to fly on a NASA shuttle. Several other joint shuttle flights are scheduled in coming years. American astronauts are to be­gin flying on Mir in early 1995. 
All this is supposed to lead to a joint space station by 2001. 
Discovery's commander, Charles Bolden Jr., said this flight has confirmed "what I knew in my heart all along, that people are just people no matter where they happen to come from." 
"I am very, very encouraged by the experience," Bolden said. "I think it bodes well for the world." 
Scientifically, Discovery's eight-day flight has been less of a success. 
The $13.5 million Wake Shield Facility had to stay aboard Discovery instead of fly­ing 46 miles away, forcing researchers to develop semi­conductor film in the dirty shuttle environment. Had it gone as planned, the experi­ment could have produced high-quality film needed for faster computers. 
Other experiments also had to be scrapped because of the crew's inability to release the satellite, including shuttle plume tests intended to help prepare for planned shuttle­Mir dockings. Discovery's pilots were supposed to fire the shut­tle jets near the Wake Shield, just before retrieving it, to see how the blasts would affect the satellite. 
For Football Season, Fall t 994 Apply at LaFortune Information Desk 
by February 18. 

MARTHA, 
Are you 
sure you 
want to 
wake up 

to this 
EVERY 

morningll 

-~~ 
~ --~-------------------------~---~-~-----­
Wednesday, February 9, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 





Clinton seeks $300 tnillion for aid 
$8.6 billion quake aid 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton asked Congress on Tuesday for an additional $300 million to help flood recovery efforts in the Midwest. 
And he ordered the release of $111 million in contingency funds already appropriated for flood relief. 
The White House said that after consultations with Midwestern governors and House and Senate members it was determined the new money was needed in communities throughout the region to help rebuild roads, bridges and com­munity facilities, for relocation assistance and for housing con­struction. 
Clinton requested: 

-$250 million, for a total of $500 million, for the commu­nity development block grant program to help in the rebuild­ing and relocation projects. 
-$50 million, for a total of $550 million, for the president's contingency fund. The money would be available for emer­gency conservation, flood pre­vention, community services and other projects. 
The money is in addition to the $435 million for the flood 
package moves to Senate 
last summer's riood -an
Slick spreads to Puerto Rican beaches 
increase of $250 million from 
states included in pending legislation, which also contains 
By DAVID ESPO 
money to aid earthquake re­
Associated Press 
covery efforts in Southern Cali­fornia. 
WASHINGTON

The president also released An $8.6 billion package of$100 million in Commerce De­Los Angeles earthquake relief partment money to meet repair advanced to the Senate floorneeds caused by last summer's 
Tuesday after lawmakers
flooding of the Mississippi River voted for a companion roundand its tributaries. 
of spending cuts, including
He also released $10 million funds once approved to pro­in Health and Human Services mote democracy in Russia. 
Department funds to meet pub­In addition to the earth­lic health and social services quake aid, the bill containsneeds. 
$685 million to help Midwesterners recover from 
By LISA M. HAMM 
Associated Press 
SAN JUAN 

An oil slick from last month's major spill has spread to -two internationally renowned beaches, causing surfers to abandon waves and hoteliers to lament lost busi­ness. 
About 200 cleanup workers headed to the northwest beaches Tuesday to join a 144­member force that arrived Sat­urday. They are trying to clean up tar balls and oil globs soil­ing a 20-mile stretch of coast­line about 65 miles west of San Juan, said Coast Guard spokesman Chris Haley. 
Wind and currents carried the slick to the northwest. The slick originated from about 750,000 gallons of heavy oil that spilled from the Morris J. Berman barge that ran aground Jan. 7 off San Juan. 
Most tourists have left Jobos and Surfers beaches, and near-last week, when the measureby Shacks Beach, said Geraldo won House approval. 
Gonzalez, a marine biologist Also approved was $1.2 bil­with the University of Puerto lion to fmance Pentagon oper­Rico's Sea Grant Program. . 
ations in Somalia, Bosnia and elsewhere, and $315 million toHotel owners said the impact repair a freeway damaged inhas hurt their business, and the 1989 San Francisco Bayfishermen complained their earthquake.
livelihood and ships were dam­The full Senate is expectedaged. 
to debate the measure
Puerto Rico's government Wednesday, and congressional Tuesday handed out 60 checks 
leaders hope to have it on
of $150 to $300 to help San President Clinton's desk by theJuan fishermen who have lost end of the week. 
business. 
The earthquake money in­cludes grants and loans for 

victims of the Jan. 17 quake, which killed 61 people and caused property damage ex­pected to reach $30 billion. 
Total spending was pegged

You Are Invited to Attend 
in the bill at $11.6 billion. In contrast to the House, where there was intense controversy generated by the subject of offsetting cuts, the Senate Appropriations Committee rolled together two separate packages of reductions that 

"Winning in the 


on~., -·~Value-Conscious '90s'' 

YOU CAN SEND YOUR 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation 
"SPECIAL SOMEONE, 
A VALENTINE MESSAGE ON
on the Key to Creating and Leveraging 
VALENTINES DAY FOR $20.00 
Consumer Value 
The ad would be this size and must be submitted l7y 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 10 to the advertising department for The Observer (Jrdjloor LaFortune) 
Featuring 


Forfurther informatiun, call 631 
Mike Milligan Senior Vice President 


New Date: Tuesday, February 15 
Come Celebrate the Chinese New Year 
5:30p.m. 

6:30 J.m. Re~a North l.eun~e 
Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Thursday, Feb.IO-SMC 
Rescheduled from january 20, due to inclement weather. 
Featuring: Lion Dancers
We apologize for any inconvenience. 
Reception immediately following. Food and beverages will be served. Dress is casual. ·students from all majors welcome. 

Procter&Gamble 
totaled slightly more than $3.4 billion. 
In the total was $145 mil­lion to be trimmed from more than $3 billion approved in the past several years to promote the transition to democracy in Russia and other former Soviet republics. 
Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., chairman of the subcommittee that oversees foreign aid spending, said "management and implementation prob­lems" made it impossible to spend all the money in the pipeline. 
Recent disaster relief bills have been paid for through deficit financing, and the cur­rent drive to offset at least part of the costs reflects grow­ing congressional concern over the deficit. 
Sen. Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., said he would attempt to per­suade the full Senate to approve a temporary increase in the gasoline tax to pay for the emergency aid legislation. 
There was little controversy over the bill in committee, with the exception of Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., to tighten a House-passed provision that would restrict aid going to ille­gal aliens. 
The House voted to deny all but emergency relief to illegal aliens, and Reid proposed a requirement that federal bureaucrats make a "reason­able effort" to establish proof of citizenship on anyone apply­ing for longer-term assistance such as Small Business Administration loans. 
of Chinese Dr~on's Athletie Ass'n/Chleago 
Meet P&G managers from: • 
Food l Refreshmen~ Served
• 
Finance 

• 
Sales 


• 
Management Systems 

• 
Product Development 

• 
Product Supply 



STUDENT
• Brand Management 
ACTIVITIES 
8 0 ARB 

page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 9, 1994 
Disaster strikes again in Southern California 
By JEFF WILSON 
Associated Press 
MALIBU 

Fires level 1.000 homes. An earthquake kills 61 people. Now, Southern California has a new disaster: mudslides. 
Cars were buried, people were plucked from upper floor windows and houses were swamped as heavy rain un­leashed tons of mud and debris from fire-scarred mountains. No injuries were reported. 
On Tuesday, bulldozers and dump trucks plowed up to 3 feet of muck from Pacific Coast Highway at Big Rock Canyon, where at least 10 beach front homes were damaged in Mon­day's cloudburst. Storm-tossed waves 8 feet high plowed into home pilings, shaking the structures much like last mon­th's deadly earthquake. 
"We have the fire, the earth­quake, the mud and now we're worried about the surf. What could be next?" said resident Carrie Sutton, whose house wasn't damaged. 
Besides the mudslides, the storm unleashed high wind that toppled trees, shattered win­dows and downed power lines. 
At the height of the down­pour, about two dozen people were plucked from second­story windows by bulldozers. A five-mile stretch of the coastal highway remained closed Tuesday. 
"I should have stayed in Illi­nois. I should have been a farmer," said Larry Myers, a Pepperdine University graduate student from Avon, Ill., as he surveyed his debris-filled home. 
Nearby beach front homes owned by Janet Jackson, Bruce Willis and Demi Moore escaped damage. 
Also unscathed were Broad Beach homes owned by Jack Lemmon, Sylvester Stallone, Frank Sinatra, Steven Spiel­berg, Eddie Van Halen and Mel Gibson. 
About 25 Malibu homes were damaged, with estimated losses of about $1.6 million, said sheriff's Deputy Diane Hecht. 
The damage could have been worse without the frantic hill­side receding and sandbagging following the Nov. 2 arson fire that scorched 18,500 acres of the Santa Monica Mountains in Malibu. 


Almost two dozen wildfires burned from Ventura County to the Mexico border in late Octo­ber and early November, killing four people and destroying about 1,000 houses. Many were blamed on arson. 
As dump trucks hauled tons of goo from the coastal high­way and dumped it into the ocean, sunshine poked through the clouds. Bikers and joggers emerged, and dogs ran along the beach. 
Isolated showers and thun­derstorms lingered over the region, and more heavy rain was predicted for next week. 
"We are going to have tore­bag and rebag quickly," said Sarah Maurice, spokeswoman for the city of 15,000 located on the coast 25 miles west of Los Angeles. "Los Angeles has its own troubles from the quake and we just can't ask them for a hand." 
Malibu sustained minimal damage in the quake. 
In fire-scarred Altadena, about 10 miles northeast of downtown Los Angeles, up to 5 feet of mud smashed through sandbag berms and chased res­idents from 40 homes. At least 12 people were temporarily stranded, and five homes sus­tained water damage, sheriff's Lt. Jim Hays said. 
In Laguna Beach, where wildfires destroyed 366 homes, extensive sandbagging and de­bris dams kept hillsides intact. 
But other parts of Orange County south of Los Angeles were battered by high wind. 
A tornado skipped 10 miles from Newport Beach to Tustin, toppling trees onto cars, shat­tering windows and downing power lines. A funnel cloud in Irvine downed tree branches and broke windows. 
(next to Randall's lnnl 272~737 

Clinton defends health-care plan 
By NANCY BENAC 
Associated Press 
SHREVEPORT 
President Clinton struck back Tuesday at critics' charges that his health-care plan would give people less choice and more government. 
"Don't fall for all this rhetoric," the president told a 
friendly crowd of nearly 2,000 factory workers on the floor of a General Motors truck plant. Clearly sensitive about insur­

ance industry Bill Clinton ads critical of his plan, the president chal­lenged "these ads of these folks that are so desperate to keep the system we have now." 
"They say, 'Oh, the president wants to have the government take over the health care sys­tem.' It isn't so," he insisted. "What the president wants to do is to keep the system we've got now and give it to every­body.'~ 
Clinton also took several swipes at a rival plan spon­sored by Rep. Jim Cooper, D­Tenn., though he didn't single Cooper out by name. He criti­cized any proposals 1that he said would try to make insurance more affordable but would not guarantee coverage for all. 
"Others say, 'well, we make insurance companies cover ev­erybody,"' he said. "Yeah, well, you can get insurance now. We 
have universal access now ­ if  
you've  got  $10,000  or  
$15,000."  

The president is trying re­gain momentum for his health­care plan after an onslaught of criticism from business groups 
Chinese·Americ•n Restaurant & Cocktailloun&e 
AulheniJC Szechuan. Mandann & Hunan Cu,slfle 
$8 95 !.h1ldren 

• ..• 11der 10 February 9 & 10 naif <)nee 
5 • 9 p.m. 

that particularly dislike his pro­posal to make companies pay most of the premiums for their workers' health coverage. 
Clinton was introduced at the GM plant by United Auto Work­ers President Owen Bieber, who said the union backs Clinton's plan enthusiastically, and by GM chief executive officer Jack Smith, who spoke by satellite hookup about a need for health-care reform without specifically endorsing Clinton's proposal. 
"It is time for us to listen to the enlightened business lead­ers like Jack Smith and the en­lightened labor leaders like Owen Bieber who say the time has come for everybody to take some responsibility for health care," Clinton said. 
Clinton, speaking to workers with some of the best health benefits in the country, told his audience that others should have the same security. 
"What if you had a dream of starting a small business and you were willing to risk giving up working here, with all the security that it has?'" Clinton asked them. "If you had a sick kid and you did that, you could­n't insure your family." 
Painting insurance companies as the villains of the current system, Clinton declared, "Our approach completely outlaws insurance company dis­crimination" against people who have pre-existing medical conditions. 
The Health Insurance Asso­ciation of America is running a series of ads that suggest Clin­

. • ~ i 
...,..___~ 
. . 

FLORALCO. 
t 
Inc Remember Your Sweetheart • on Valentine's Day/ 
,. ~ , _ 327 Lincolnway West, South Bend 
....,_. 232-3354 
Mary B. Green Come in and Browse Open daily 8:00a.m. to 6:00p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
ton's plan would result in a mushrooming federal bureau­cracy while limiting patients' choices in selecting medical care. 
Clinton countered that the failings of the current system were due to insurance compa­nies "writing thousands and thousands of different policies, charging old people more than young people, and saying who cannot get health insurance. We ought to stop it." 
He said rival health-care plans in Congress would limit workers' choices in selecting health coverage while his would give people their pick of at least three options -basic, average and premium. 
"A lot of the plans competing with us would drive workers down to one choice: the least expensive HMO," Clinton said. "That may be a good plan. A lot of these HMOs give great care at low cost, but one of the rea­sons is they have some compe­tition." 
Clinton was accompanied to the plant by Sen. John Breaux, D-La., who is sponsoring the Cooper counterpart in the Sen­ate. Breaux said he remains optimistic a compromise can be found, but acknowledged that a major sticking point was Clin­ton's desire to have all employ­ers pick up the tab for insur­ance. 
Be a part of The Observer! Call 631-7471 for info. 

NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY Now TAKING APPUCATIONS FoR 


'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 


232-8256 
The Mishmka Bmving Company 
"Northern Indiana's Only Microbrewery" 3703 North Main Street (Just South of Edison on Main Street) 
********** Cornish Pasty I Pub Pie I Fish 'N Chips Scotch Eggs I Shepherd's Pie Our Famous "Pubburrito" 
& 
Traditional American Fare ********** 
Sunday--Thursday: Study Booths Available 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK FOR LUNCH & DINNER 
Phone: 256..9993 

..... ,..,. .............................._....... _ •.__.,......__..,,....... ................~...................................... 4.•-•-• .. ... ,., 6 ... ~ 11 ,_...,
~ ~ 
·----·---~----· 
Wednesday, February 9, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page9 
North purges name from files 
By PETE YOST 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Senate hopeful Oliver North purged his name from court flies detailing his efforts to sup­press the prosecutor's fmal re­port on the Iran-Contra scan­dal, sources familiar with the matter said Tuesday. 
A three-judge panel of the 
U.S. Court of Appeals released hundreds of pages of previous­ly secret court documents filed in December by former President Reagan and former Attorney General Edwin Meese III seeking to block the Jan. 18 release of the prosecutor's report. 
But North's name was absent from the court files. One court document had black ink blotting out the name of a third party seeking to suppress the report. The name was North's and it was blacked out by court officers at the request of North and his lawyers, according to the sources, who have closely followed the seven-year investigation of the scandal and who spoke on con­dition of anonymity. 

In addition, said the sources, North's lawyers removed from court files their secret motions seeking to stop release of the report. 
"We just don't have any comment," North lawyer Nicole Seligman said when asked about the former White House aide's decision to keep his court motions off the public record. 
North is seeking the Republican nomination for the Senate seat held by Charles Robb, D-Va. 
The report by prosecutor Lawrence Walsh concludes that Reagan acquiesced in a cover-up of the Iran-Contra scandal spearheaded by Meese. It also concludes that North regarded Reagan's com­ments about secretly assisting the Nicaraguan Contras as "an invitation to break the law." 
In the newly released court papers, filed Dec. 3, Reagan's lawyers complained that Wal­sh's then-secret report "con­tains page after page of innu­endo that former President Reagan and others might have transgressed criminal laws." 
Walsh's report "is fraught with scurrilous accusations in-
The Department of Music Presents 
Univ~::J:LoE~!~cf:{arust
in a 
~acfi 01!fan :Festiva[ 
%ree Concert Series 
Wednesday, Feb. 9 Tuesday, Feb. 15 Sunday, Feb. 20 
all concerts are at 
8:00p.m. 
Sacred Heart  Basilica  
The concerts are  ublic  
Seniors,  


tended to damage the good name of honest public servants like former Attorney General Edwin Meese III," his lawyers said in the newly released court filing. 
Meese's lawyers asked the appeals court judges to delete from Walsh's report "accusa­tions ... pertaining to any alleged criminal conduct on the part of Edwin Meese IlL" 
Reagan asked that the court refuse to release Walsh's report "to the public or any other entity or person" unless it was rewritten to remove "opinions, conclusions and innuendo." 
The sources said North made similar objections. Walsh's Dec. 8 court filing arguing against suppression addresses Reagan's objections side-by-side with the objections of the blacked-out third party. 
North was tried and convict­ed of three felonies in the Iran­Contra scandal. The convic­tions were later set aside and eventually dismissed because prosecutors were unable to show that North's trial was free of taint from his immu­nized congressional testimony in 1987. 
Life's too short. 
ll'f!'l 

Leadership Conference Education Fund. Inc. ~ 


Come on Down••• 

to Senior Bar 
for a chance to win these fabulous prizes! 
1. 
A trip to Mardi Gras-includes plane, hotel, and spending money. 

2. 
Senior Formal package-includes second city, ticket, hotel, and spending money 

3. 
Four movie passes 

4. 
Dinner for four at Macri's 


5. 
Brunch for two at Tippecanoe 


...and many other prizes including Rocco's, C.}. 's, and others. 
join Bob and his Beauties on Wednesday, Feb. 9 at Senior Bar. The cost is $1 oo per raffle ticket. The games will begin at 11:00 p.m. 
North Korea fortifying main nuclear complex 
By JU-YEON KIM 
Associated Press 
SEOUL 

Facing the possibility of U.N. sanctions, North Korea is forti­fying and staging defensive maneuvers around its main nu­clear complex, a South Korean security official said Tuesday. 
North Korea, meanwhile, ac­cused the South Korean leader­ship of "sword brandishing" and bringing Korea to the "brink of war." 
North Korea is suspected of developing atomic weapons. It denies this, but has blocked foreign inspectors from its nu­clear facilities. 
In a meeting Tuesday of se­curity-related ministers in Seoul, national security adviser Chung Jong-uk said intelligence reports show North Korea is conducting defense training around its main nuclear com­plex at Yongbyon, 60 miles north of the capital, Pyongyang. 
Chung said North Korea also has fortified its underground military facilities at Yongbyon, but he said there's no sign North Korea is trying to pro­voke a confrontation. 
Wednesday's edition of the Chosun llbo newspaper quoted an unidentified high govern­ment official as saying South Korea has increased surveil­lance of North Korea "to be in­formed of possible military ma­neuvers ahead of time." 
The stepped up tension comes less than two weeks be­fore the International Atomic Energy Agency votes on whether to refer North Korea's continued refusal to allow nu­clear inspections to the U.N. Se­curity Council for possible in­ternational sanctions. 
"In case dialogue and efforts fail, the government must take all necessary measures to safe­guard national security and survival and to win public con­fidence," South Korean Presi­dent Kim Young-sam said Tuesday. 
Kim faulted what he called exaggerated reports from the United States that he said could aggravate tensions on both sides of the Korean Peninsula. 
He said North Korea must not be isolated and the appear­ance of confrontation should be diminished to avoid spoiling last-minute hopes for a peace­ful resolution of the crisis. 
South Korean Foreign Minis­ter Han Sung-joo said the nu­clear impasse can still be solved through negotiations with North Korea. 
"Slight progress has been made through IAEA-Norea Ko­rea negotiations," Han said, without elaborating. However, he said, if North Korea contin­ued to block inspections, sanc­tions were inevitable. 
Han was to depart for the United States on Wednesday, a week earlier than expected, for talks with Secretary of State Warren Christopher on the nu­clear standoff. 
An expert on North Korea who visited Pyongyang last week said the Communist coun­try seemed tense and ordinary citizens seemed worried about an outside attack. 
"North Koreans do not want a war with South Koreans," said Stephen Linton, a New York professor who accompa­nied evangelist Billy Graham to North Korea. 
North Korea's official Korean Central News Agency said, in a dispatch monitored in Tokyo, "It is a foolish dream for the South Korean war maniacs to overpower our republic by mili­tary force." 


---· --·------~~-----~~­



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, February 9, 1994 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Krvin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editnr................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager .................... .Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry  Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters  OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller .......................................Mark Meenan  


THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the adminiS!ra­tion of either inS!irurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Accem/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 63!-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
My cracked and withered fm­gers can barely tap the key­board; lumbago, gout, and arthritic joints make my seated posture here at The Observer an agony. The weight of years bears heavily upon me. and "th' eternal editor" awaits my final copy. The end is nearer that it is far, and thus I have claim upon your pity, reader: as a graduate student-lowest, and 
'How I envy your 
youthful frolics, reader, in the summer of your undergraduate bliss!' 
eldest, of men. 
How I envy your youthful frol­ics, reader, in the summer of your undergraduate bliss! How I long to tap dextrously at the controls of Mortal Kombat II, to have my hooded yellow man yell, "C'mere!" in an aggressive voice, hurling a bloody harpoon into my foe's muscular chest. 
Such will never be my fate, reader. For me never the gloss of the beer-mirror. reflecting the mirth of the dorm-room, nor the prideful conquest of the nubile co-ed. Never for me the athlete's sweat-pants and back­wards baseball cap, nor the nose-ring and goatee of the libi­dinious bohemian. 
I exist in a neither a region, a phantom zone much like that into which Superman's enemies were once banished, only to be freed by an exploding atom­bomb. No such liberation, I need not add, awaits this pris­oner. 
No, the graduate student is a pitiable and feeble being, con­demned to an indefinite term of labor whose end is distant and whose reward is dubious. 
Trudging bonelessly up the library stairs, representatives of our race have the glazed eyes and cadaverous faces of men who know and expect defeat. Who speak publically of the hopelessness of their getting a job, and the dissatisfactions of having one; who leer at the passing beauties, and scorn the better, stronger men whom the universe has rightly ordained for them in our stead. 
And yet... And yet... 

There is still some creeping pathos in the plight of the grad­uate student, some redeeming poetry in melancholy which, in the end, justifies him. Though our buckling spines can barely hold up the mortarboards of postgraduate eminence, are we not the heirs to Albertus Magnus? Toiling away in obscurity, groping after entry to a refereed journal or university press, we represent the work­ing masses of University life, enduring and abiding the hard­ships and solitude. 
I mean, it's hard, man! You don't know! Forget about Finals. Try sitting at home with 400 pages of Major Problems in American Colonial History 
between you and your unmade bed! It's murder. 
Murder! Try pulling into Burger King after a long ses­sion in your study pen, and see­ing, with growing alarm, the 
MY IN5TR.UCTI(JV5 WE31<& TO T!<tAT TH/5 M/9.3/0N A? A HI6Ht.Y 5i3NSITIV!3 NATIONAI.­
5UURJTYMATTa<. I 
~ 

mantis faces peeking at you from behind the fryers, and the brittle jointed "hands" which give you your change. Or watching the rotating sandwich cylinders of the library base­ment mock you with their empty shelves. The oppressive, menacing hum of that room! No tomb could be more oppres­sive. The moist caress of a ten­tacle, the cyclopean gaze of an eye-pod... I can bear no more of it. 
So, submitted to your consid­eration, the graduate student. Harassed by vast and shadowy entities, oppressed by work and despair, he sits with his hot plate in a monklike cell, dream­ing of tenure and Priapism. 
Is there no room in your heart, good undergraduate, for such a being? With your radi­
' Harassed by vast and shadowy enti­ties, oppressed by work and despair, the gradu­ate student sits with his hot plate in a monklike cell, dreaming of tenure and Priapism.' 
ant health and undimmed ambitions, spare a pity for the poor graduate, his weak coffee, his tension and unkempt coat. The call of Vocation may, some­day, strike you down, too. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

University must increase education 
... . . .L Itis everyone's responsibility 
Over the last several days I \'to educate; mine, yours, our have read the AIDS articles in parents, Notre Dame and the The Observer and, much to my federal government. dismay, have read commen• . The government has recent­tariesthatju~ n miss the ly taken steps to educate 
rna,r~. ~?rtlje. years llQP,t~~a.fer se.x" .on national
ha\ie peen ' . .· .afire ~Jeyb;jog,; This education has fighter an . . . . . ergency een scrutinized for al!pealing room techniC~ail working on to children and makmg sex bot~ t,b.~ EMt,.Gqa,,,<H:a,nd P.~r.tL. more acceptable whep... in South Bend. Through thi~"'' pled with latex. The ~ritics work, AIDS has become a part ~.government education may of my everydaylife and fears. "~have a point. ; *fhe articles in '(pe Obseryer q,, But, as part ofthe Notre are treating A}D$ ed,ucation as ••• ·. D~rne community we. live in a a moral issue; Jm is$Ue likenecl i: special environment, a society to the debate about sex before e1tclusively of adults. Adults marriage. It simply is not a who will make their own per­moral issue, it is an issue of sonal decisions. Adults whose health. Though AIDS is a sexu-decisions can affect the future ally transmitted disease, it is ofthis disease, and the future not exclusive!· )ted in .,.of generations to follow~ As this manner . . . -+\tong as these decisions are 
Mil' informed and intelligent our 
It is time for Notre Dame as college education has been a community of adults to real· worthwhile. ize two things, The frrst is that AIDS kills. The second is that My point is this: let us edu­as adults we will all make our cate about monogamy, about own decisions. Th~se decisions•. marriage, about latex, and raJ;'lge. from <:.f!-reer choice to"" ab()JJ.t good sense. We are in a sexuality. If one chooses to en· unique position where all of gage in only marital sexual ac-what we say can be directed tivity, that is his or her choice. solely at the intelligent adult. If one chooses to engage in We do not run the risk of pro­monogamous extramarital moting sex by informing about sexual relatiOJlli, that again is <;ondoms. Simply, I am asking theindlvil,lual'~CI'l.oke,. . ,, . both the University and the 
I tis also.the qhoiQe of the i,ti; ·dent body to open their dividua1to engage in sexual eyes to the reality, to the fact, freedom. It is not-within the thafAIDS and sex are here to realm of parents, society or stay, Jt is everyone's responsi­the Church to make the deci· bility to educate, be educated sion for the individual. It is. and he smart. however, within their realm to educate andJiit'orrn 
individu• HOLT MURRAY als so th4t th~~ ~il:Y 
their bestdec;isbin. · · 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
CAN'T5AY. 

''The only way to make 
TOSSME3 
7HATSKO/.... 
sure people you agree
OF PIANO tf/1/<£, ti//U 

with can speak is to support the 
~,HON/3Y? 

rights of people you don't agree with." 
--Eleanor Holmes Norton 


-------~---~------~----~-------------~-----------------­
Wednesday, February 9, 1994 page 11

VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Opportunity to practice Christian values at Dismas 
SYR's in need of their Reader confused by SYR complaint 
Dear Editor: disks, so such a reply seems of your incredible moves, or 2)own multi-cultural office Regarding Christian innocent enough. Unless, of you are a lousy. out-of-control Guerrero's letter of Feb. 7 course, Guerrero's friends have dancer, and people are spilling
Dear Editor:· l'i _'HI...•'< --_,-,~._, the Multicultural Executive SYR ("Semi-formals exclude stu­an endless supply of money. their drinks because of your
After reading Christian Council. In other words, if a dents of color") I have one which is an impossible accom­pathetic moves. or 3) the room Guerrero's recent letter to the "student of color" wishes a question to ask: What is the plishment for anyone paying to is full of "15 couples standing
Observer ("Semi-formals ex­song played, he or she will have point? Guerrero fills a quarter attend Notre Dame. around drinking beer." and you clude students of color," The preference over the selection of of the page with something he Guerrero also claims that are the one couple dancing. In Observer. February 7, 1994), I music by a "student of non­cannot understand, nor ex­when he dances with his date, that case, allow me to recall the thought it my duty as a mem­color. " Thus, a new hall com­plain, more than "we feel shut people stare. Unfortunately, I famous words of Sesame Street: ber of the Notre Dame commu­mittee must be formed to en­out at SYRs." believe the same thing occurs "One of these kids is doing his nity to share the solution to this sure the enforcement of the He does state that when he, to numerous white students, or own thing."
devastating problem. musical preference policy. 
or another "student of color" should I say. studen~ of no Since he claims "in no way
First, the Office of However, I fear this may not 
requests a song, he receives the color. am I suggesting that SYRs are Multicultural SYRs should be be enough. The University reply. "Sorry, we don't have When you dance, there could racist or prejudiced," what is formed. This office would un­needs to start SYR Prejudice that." May I suggest, few stu­be three reasons why people Guerrero suggesting? I won­doubtedly make students of ev­Reduction Workshops to ensure dents on this campus own an stare at you: 1) you are a great der. has it ever occurred to him ery color feel more welcome at that no "people of non-color" infinite collection of compact dancer and people are in awe that there are many people who 
SYRs. Or. at the very least, the have any other ideas except 
experience the same problemoffice would provide multicul­complete compliance with this as him, regardless of color. It's 
tural students with an outlet to program to increase the num­called paranoia. And that has discuss their multicultural ber of "students of color" who 
to do with personality, not race. 
problems with these not-so-di­attend SYRs. Multicultural I think Guerrero's problem is verse SYRs. "people of color" are vital to 
in his mind, not on the dance Diversity is such a noble and the Notre Dame Family, and we floor. But in conclusion, since 
wonderful pursuit that the must nurture them at all costs. 
Guerrero did not suggest a so­Office of Multicultural SYRs lution, I will. Next time you feel 
should immediately set a quota To broaden the effects of this outcast at a section party, re­on the racial makeup of the important program, a require­
member, you too have a room. 
students attending the SYR. It ment specifying 20 percent of Use it. should be mandatory that 20 all items purchased for SYRs 
KEVIN GARDNER 

percent of all SYR dates be must be bought from busi­
Junior "students of color. " Such quo­nesses owned by "people of Flanner Hall tas would help to bring color" should be added as well. multiculturalism into SYRs. By working with the commu­"eople of color" would then be nity, we can foster relationships able to "dance enthusiastically" and diversity that have a truly all night long. salubrious effect on and off­

Mutilation doesn't deter abuse 
The failure of Notre Dame campus. 
Dear Editor: taking the aggressors weapon (rehabilitation through variousstudents to have proper music It is important that we, as a 
for our multicultural "friends of school, unite and demand this I am writing in response to away they will no longer be forms of therapy). which may color" also needs to be ad­program immediately. I fear it comments published recently in able to commit that crime not satiate the understandable dressed immediately. It will is the only way to remedy our the Viewpoint section of The again. In the case of a rapist, rage of a victim and community Observer regarding the Bobbitt once his penis is removed, he that wants retribution. We
therefore be the responsibility failing SYR system-a system of the Office of Multicultural that excludes just too many case. Whether or not one will no longer be able to use his must ask ourselves however. 
"students of color." Past agrees with the premise that penis as a weapon again who we'd rather have out on
SYRs to set a quota on what music students can bring on discrimination has made it mutilating a perpetrator's geni­(unless of course it is surgically the streets, a rehabilitated sex 
a

campus. A full 20 percent of all hard on these individuals, must tals is a reasonable form of re-attached). offender or perpetrator 
music must be of a more di­we make it hard on them in the punishment, it is important to It is important to consider whose penis has been cut off? 
... 
consider that this may not be a that just because a penis has In closing, I'd like to point
verse nature. Therefore; the present as well? Multicultural Executive SYR deterrent after all. been removed, this does not out that a rapist whose penis 
Sexual predators are not mean that their desire to was removed and then re­
Council, comprised of multicul­I urge every single one of you looking for sex, they are express their aggression sexu­attached may now be moretural "students of color," should reading this letter today to do attempting to exert their ally will be diminished. If any­dangerous than ever. He hasbe formed to review a student's your best to implement these power. They choose to express thing, he will be more hostile something to prove with an
music selection before it is changes-our voice must be 
their need for power by resort­and determined to get power even bigger chip on his shoul­brought on campus. heard! 
But if we truly want to inte­Or you could just get a life. ing to sexual aggression. Rape back. His new weapon of choice der. 
is not the aggressive expression will likely be a stick, knife, orgrate our multicultural friends of sexuality. it is the sexual some other object. MICKFRANCO
into the full SYR scene, we BRIAN FITZPATRICK 
expression of aggression. Another solution to the prob­Staff Psychologistmust provide musical prefer­Freshman 
Stanford Hall Some may suggest that by lem is a humanistic solution University Counseling Center 
ence for the music approved by 
Dear Editor: 
Let's talk about the Christian Character of Notre Dame. I'm not talking about the hypocrisy of this place though. As Father Griffin pointed out in his last letter, hypocrisy is sort of inevitable when an institution tries to live up to the Christian ideal (especially when there's a $18,000 price tag on it). 
We forget our down sides and inabilities and we are eventual­ly hypocritical in our shortcom­ings. And that's OK. But what is not OK is where we simply give lip service to our Christian ideals, where we fail to even try to achieve them. 
One place we have failed, where it would be easy to do a lot more that just flap our 10,000 collective sets of gums, is a home known as Dismas House. Dismas House is a com­munity of forgiveness, mutual support, and growth for stu­dents and ex-offenders. That is, at Dismas House students and ex-convicts live together, sup­port each other, forgive each other, and grow together. 
The house is an ideal based on the image of Jesus' forgive­ness and invitation into the community of heaven, as Jesus showed to a criminal crucified at his side (Luke 23: 39-43). Dismas is located in South Bend in order to try and live out this ideal with Notre Dame's stu­dents. The house holds 16 with an ideal of eight students and eight ex-offenders. 
Unfortunately, we are failing with our great lack of effort. During my four years here, about three students from Notre Dame have tried living at Dismas house over the com­bined time span of about two semesters (a few others have communed with the people of Dismas by regularly cooking dinner there.) Now, out of a possible eight students for each of the eight semesters of my Notre Dame life, three students for two semesters isn't just coming short; we are failing (no offense to those few who try or cook). 

We've all been too busy flap­ping our lips in seminars about what it means to be a "national Catholic research University." We've been flapping so much "We are NO" that we've failed to notice that no one is sharing our Christian community with Dismas House. We've been too busy trying to be cool, off-cam­pus, real world adults to realize that no cool students are living at Dismas House. Most of us are too busy to even know where Dismas House is. 
The address there is 512 S. Saint Joseph street right behind the South Bend Post Office-a short bus, bicycle; or car ride from campus. But if you look, you see eight vacant student residents at Dismas House for next year... again. That is, unless we try to live up to our ideals next year. 
Please, when you're thinking about a place to live next year (there is still time to think). and your thinking about how cool it could be to live with your friends off campus. or in a dorm quad, THINK about how cool it would be share that community of friendship in Dismas House. Maybe your friends aren't thinking commu­nity but you are, THlNK about Dismas House. It's not Cripe St., the Swamp House, the Swim House, the Potato House, the Creek, Navarre, Campus View, Lafayette, NO apartments or anything that distinguished. 
Nor is Dismas House the cam-
I\ 
! ' I I 
·lJ~B· 

pus life in "the quad," "the box," "the eight man," or "holy R.A.ness," or anything that cool. But I can tell you that liv­ing at Dismas House is cool and distinguished. In fact, living at Dismas house is probably some­thing more than distinction and probably something more than coolness. 
If you are interested in Dismas house at all and would like more information a group of lips called the "student recruitment committee" is hav­ing a meeting on Tuesday. February 15th at 4:30 PM. in the CSC-please attend. If you need information before or after that date you can call Dismas House at 233-8522 and maybe attend a dinner at the house, or you can meet with Kathy Royer in the CSC or Brother Bonaventure in Keenan Hall. 
Oh, yeah! Don't just bring your lips, but bring your hearts, and your minds as well. We don't want to leave Dismas stranded on the cross without forgiveness and an invitation to achieve the heavenly communi­ty we're supposed to strive for here at the University of Notre Dame. 
CHRIS MARTIN Senior Keenan Hall 

-





ACCENT 
page 12 Wednesday, February 9, 1994 
Word to 
myMutha 
Somewhere in the mid­dle of 1973, my father and my mother decided to bless the world with the fruit of their passions. I will not delve into the "Flash Gordon saves the Nebraskan princess from the evil corn-husking Druids" routine that precluded conception, but will go straight to Accent Columnist the birth of a small creature that looked less like fruit, and more like a miniature Mr. Clean. On that day, Patti Kazlauskas not only unleashed an unbridled stallion whose lust for life is evident in the way that he feeds the squir­rels on campus, but she became a mom too. I might also add that according to my dad, I came out sideways, and though my mom was playing "Frogger" on an Atari 2600 at the time, she didn't even flinch. I suspect that her career as a professional rodeo clown made her somewhat insensitive to the pains associated with being gored or giving birth. 
From day one, my mom was always there for me, teaching me about life. By the age of six months, I was earning an allowance doing small chores, such as dumping trash and changing the oil in the cars. Actually. my mom rarely thrusted labor upon me except for the weekly dog poop duty, which I have since delegated to my brother, Kevin. He may not be happy now, but someday he will come to fully appreciate his title as the "1994 California Poop Scoop Champion." 
My mother tells me that the trophy sits proud­ly on the mantle over the frreplace. 
By the time I was a toddler. I was still young enough to be cute and innocent, but old enough to eat solid food and steal car stereos. My mom had her hands full between my climbing on top of the refrigerator to eat the marshrqp.Ilows, ringing up long distance bills through random number punching on the telephone, and force feeding my couple-month-old baby brother Chee-tos. 
The fun didn't really begin until I was about five and my brother was three. Star Wars was the craze, and when my dad threw the sound­track onto the old turntable, Kevin and I were spiritually transformed into frenzied freedom­fighters, leaping over couches, jumping off o chairs, shooting hordes of invisible storm troop­ers that seemed certain to steal our parents and take them away in their Tie-Fighters where they would be used as slaves on the Death Star. Kevin was obsessed with Chewbacca, while I preferred the restless spirit of Han Solo. We always made a mess, but my mom cleaned it up. I guess we expected her to. After all, when you're rescued from the Dark Side, putting the pillows back on the couch isn't such a bad price to pay. Heck, some days she even had a bowl o "Spaghettios" waiting for us. YUMMERS! 
Eventually my mom thrust me out into the world of childhood education. I was not adverse to the kindergarten curriculum, which included such classics as, "A Pig can Jig," and activities like "Paper Airplane Wednesday." However, as a private school kid, I would have to get used to navy blue cords for the next nine years. Yet, that didn't disturb me as much as the helmet cut that my mom always had me get at the bar­ber shop. "You look adorable," she said. Adorable or not, Q-Bert-playing delinquents called me "Helmet-head" and chucked dirt clods at me several times. At least the helmet offered maximum cranial protection. 
The rest of my life has been soccer. My mom has survived over a decade of mud, blood, and sweaty shin guards. She nursed the wounds, drove me to the emergency room (three times), and made hundreds of post-game 7-11 stops. 
For all of the times that she fed the dogs when I forgot to, made my lunch, fell for the "I think I'm gonna puke" line and let me stay home from school, made my dinner, and gave me hugs after a lousy day. I just wanted to say, "I love you, Mom, Happy Valentine's Day, and don't take candy from strangers." 


Run, walk, or jog 
Loftus Center provides an open door to the senior citizens of the community 
Observer file photo 

Many senior citizens find soothing relief from the busy streets on the soft floors of Loftus Center. 
' 
\
' 
By MELANIE WATERS malls and busy streets. AccemWrirer "It's much easier walking," said Norma Walker, a Loftus regular. 
Notre Dame has expanded its "You never have to worry about contact with the community watching out for traffic." through the Loftus center, much to Lillian Zakrzewski and her bus­the enjoyment and gratitude of the band Joseph walk 10 laps a day on many senior citizens that use the the Loftus track. facility during the mornings. "It's very easy walking," 
Loftus, opened in 1987, now of-Zakrzewski said. "We used to go to fers a comfortable atmosphere for the mall, but the floor is so hard, South Bend's senior citizens to my legs would ache." walk, jog, and exercise. Most mem-To many, exercising at Loftus has hers use the facility in the mornings great health benefits. to walk laps around the track. "I went through two heart by-
Loftus director Lefty Smith said passes," Albano said. "I found out that Loftus' benefactors had always about Loftus through a reba­intended for the facility to be bilitation doctor." enjoyed by the whole community. "Walking, jogging and exercise 
"The center was help them to prevent founded by the . heart disease," Smith Loftus, Haggar 'lthmk Notre Dame has added. "Many come for and Meyo fami-offered the public a rehabilitation after lies," Smith said, . h . f . . surgery."
"under the condi-great asset Wit ItS aCIII-Many of the seniors tion that they ties.' also said that exercis­wanted to service Mike Albano ing at Loftus offers a 
the entire Notre social aspect as well. Dame community." "There's constantly people here," 
Smith said that varsity sports take Albano said. "It's a good social top priority at Loftus, followed by atmosphere. People are very conge­RecSports and academic uses. The nial, and the staff is excellent." center opens each morning with use Smith said that Loftus' relation­by ROTC from 6:30 to 8 a.m. The ship with the seniors helps to bridge physical education department then the gap between the university and uses the facility from 8 to noon, as the community. do many of the senior citizens that "When I came here in 1968, there are Loftus members. Varsity sports was hardly any relationship then have use of the center from between the two; it was more like 
3:15 to 10:15 p.m., and RecSports animosity," Smith said. and club sports use Loftus for the Smith said that now, there is a remainder of the night. better level of communication with 
Smith said that when Loftus first the surrounding community. opened to the community, the The seniors that use Loftus seem response was so overwhelming that to carry a positive view of the uni­Notre Dame staff and families were versity. 
., 

crowded out. "We had to decide Zakrzewski, a university retiree, then that only the Notre Dame fami-still praises the school. ly and those 55 and older in the "It's a great place, a good place to community could use it," he said. work," she said. "I'll never have 
For these senior citizens, Loftus is anything bad to say about it!" a welcome sight. Most of Loftus' members share 
"It's a godsend," said Mike Zakrzewski's view, as many of them Albano, one of Loftus' senior citizen were involved with the university in members. "I think Notre Dame has the past. offered the public a great asset with Today, Notre Dame students, staff its facilities. It's comfortable in the and retirees can use the facility just winter and pleasant to come in the by showing ID. Alumni are also wei­summer." come to use Loftus, and seniors 
Many agreed that Loftus' soft need only show proof of age to use floor was a soothing relief from the Loftus center. 

-
-------~~ 
----~---­
Wednesday, February 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Milwaukee shocks Houston; Dallas wins in overtime 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press 
Eric Murdock scored 28 points and led six Milwaukee players in double figures Tues­day night as the Bucks stunned Hakeem Olajuwon and the Houston Rockets 106-98. 
The Bucks, blown out 115­94 on Saturday by Seattle, the team with the best record in the NBA, held their own with the Rockets, who own the sec­ond-best record, now at 33-12. 
Milwaukee, with a record of just 14-33, played its best game of the season in winning for just the sixth time in 23 home games. The Bucks led 73-68 after three quarters and used a 12-2 run, including five points from Ken Norman, to stretch their lead to 91-79 with 4:58 remaining. 
Kenny Smith's 3-pointer with 1:01 left pulled Houston to 101-95, but the Rockets, who were led by Olajuwon's 27 points, couldn't recover. Mur­dock hit four free throws to ice the victory. 
Frank Brickowski added 19 points for Milwaukee, followed by Todd Day with 15. 
The Bucks led 26-24 after 
one quarter and held a 4 7-45 
advantage with 30 seconds left in the half before Houston's Vernon Maxwell hit a 3-pointer. Smith's bucket just before the buzzer gave the Rockets a 50­4 7 halftime lead. 
Smith's 3-pointer to open the third quarter sparked a 15-7 run, including two dunks and a spinning hook by Olajuwon, as Houston grabbed a 65-54 lead. 
The Bucks answered with 12 straight points, seven by Day, for a 66-65 lead with 3:41 left in the third quarter. 
Brickowski's jumper with 
1:52 left in the third quarter gave the Bucks the lead for good at 68-67. 
Robert Horry, starting for the Rockets for the first time since his trade to Detroit was nixed Sunday when Sean Elliott failed a physical because of a kidney condition, scored eight first-half points and 12 overall. 
Bulls 118, Clippers 89 
Scottie Pippen had 22 points, 14 rebounds and nine assists Tuesday night as the Chicago Bulls beat the Los Angeles Clip­pers for the ninth consecutive time, 118-89. 
The Clippers, who haven't beaten the Bulls since Nov. 26, 1989 at the Sports Arena, were led by Danny Manning with 22 points and Ron Harper with 18. 

Horace Grant scored 22 points for the Bulls, who shot 55 percent from the field, mak­ing the Clippers 0-11 when their opponent makes 50 per­cent or better. 
Pippen, who will make his third consecutive All-Star start next Sunday, finished one assist shy of his 14th career triple­double and third of the season. He was taken out by coach Phil Jackson with 7:49 remaining and the Bulls ahead 103-79 after a 14-4 spurt at the start of the fourth quarter. 
Jazz 96, Nuggets 95 
Jeff Malone's 18-footer from the corner with 12 seconds left squelched a wild Denver rally and gave Utah a 96-95 victory Tuesday night. 
The Jazz led 94-86 in the fi­nal minute, but Rodney Rogers hit three 3-pointers in a space of 8.8 seconds, giving the Nuggets a 95-94 lead with 20 seconds left before Malone's winning jumper. Denver stole two inbounds passes by Karl Malone, leading to the second and third of Rogers' 3-pointers. 
After Malone's basket, Rogers tried another shot, but it was blocked by Tyrone Corbin. LaPhonso Ellis got the rebound for Denver, but lost control and time ran out after a wild scram­ble under the basket. 
Karl Malone scored 24 points and John Stockton had 22 points and 12 assists for the Jazz. Rogers, who made all four of his 3-point attempts, led the Nuggets with 23 points, while Ellis scored 18 points and Robert Pack 17. 
The Jazz went on a 13-1 run to break a 16-16 tie at the start of the second quarter and led the rest of the way except for Denver's 95-94 lead near the end. 
The Nuggets trailed 68-46 with 4:39 left in the third pe­riod before Kevin Brooks sparked a rally with two 20-foot jumpers that enabled Denver to close to 76-63 entering the final period. 
Pack had two baskets and a free throw to pace a 9-2 rally that made it 78-72 with 9:20 left. The Jazz pushed their lead back to 12 points on two occa­sions, but Denver pulled to 86­80 on a 22-foot jumper by Ellis with 4:16 left. 
After Utah moved ahead 92­81 with 1:21 left, Rogers hit the first of his four 3-pointers and Bryant Stith scored on a layup to reduce the Denver deficit to 92-86 with 1:12 to play. 
Mavericks 108, Timberwolves 105 (OT) 
Doug Smith scored five of his 20 points in overtime Tuesday night, including a key tip-in with 31 seconds left, and the Dallas Mavericks defeated Min­nesota 108-105, their fourth victory over the Timberwolves this season. 
The Mavericks are now 4-1 against Minnesota, including 3­0 at Target Center in Min­neapolis, but they are 1-41 against the rest of the NBA. 
Smith's follow shot gave Dallas a 103-99 lead after his three-point play with 2:10 re­maining in overtime put the Mavs ahead 99-94. Jamal Mashburn hit three free throws in the fmal 23 seconds and Jim Jackson added two foul shots with 3.6 seconds left to seal the victory and hand the Timber­wolves their sixth consecutive defeat. 
Jackson and Mashburn scored 24 points each to lead the Mavericks. Doug West had 24 points and Micheal Williams 20 for the Timberwolves. 
Minnesota trailed 89-84 with 54 seconds left in regulation before converting six free throws in the final 48 seconds to force the overtime. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
Notices 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard ' 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
CANCUN 4 best Spr Brk ever! 
Fly from Chi. or Indy. Seats going 
fast! x232-7109 
Lost and Found 
LOST-Has anyone seen my neck­
lace under all this snow? Gold chain with 3 gold letters: 
Has anyone seen my necklace somewhere under all this snow? Gold chain with three gold letters A­R-1 , has great sentimental value. Will give reward and be eternally grateful to finder. Please call Ari @ 259-Q219 w/ any info. 
Lost: gold chain with two lockets Thurs. aftemoon-2/3-near b-ball courts in ACC next to ice rink. Great personal value. If found, please call Sanmit at 1684 
Blue sweatshirt with gold Irish letter­ing lost either outside or in the basement of LaFortune. Call X1662 
Wanted 
....SPRING BREAK '94 .... Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 11 0% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL 
(800)328-7263. 
Need one extra JPW ticket for all events DESPERATELYIIIIIII! Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506 
SMC women looking for sponta­
neous and thrill-seeking men to do 
the group thing at the Senior 
Formal. No strings attached. Call 
Mary ASAP by Wed. 
284-5255. 
Need ride to Washington D.C. for 
Spring Break(Mar.5-12/13). Will 
help pay for gas and tolls. Call 
Katie X 4594. 
\Desperate! Need ride to Daytona 
Beach for Spring Break. Price is 
negotiable. Please call Roger at 
35081 
HELP! Need ride to IU, Bloom on Fri. 2-11 to see my Valentine! Will pay for gas. Call Jen at x41 09. 
SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ in salary & benefits. Ski/Snowboard instructors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet staff + other positions (including summer). Over 15,000 openings. For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V5584 
Campus newspaper carrier/manag­er needed immediately for St. Mary's campus, call City News Service Inc., 232-3205. 
Home delivery newspaper carriers needed for morning delivery, car required. Call City News Service Inc., 232-3205. 
SENIOR needs extra GRADUA­TION tickets. Will pay CASH. Call 
Dave @ 273-3008 
Help! 4 desperate girls need 
ride to Long Island or NYC for 
Spring Break -will pay gas and 
tolls. Call x4881 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­
MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + 
TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! 
(CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, 
ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING 
AND SUMMER SEASONS 
APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT 
TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! 
CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 
COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­SON, coed Massachusetts. Swimming, tennis, land/water sports, arts/crafts, theatre, wood­working, rocketry, archerY. comput­er, yearbook, photography, video, radio, morel Super kids, great food, friendly, fun! No general counselors. 800-955-CAMP. 
SITIER NEEDED My Juniper Rd home, 2 yr old & infant, 4/hr, SAT 1­5, some Fri or SAT NITES. Prefer early ED Maj but will consider all. Must have car & refs. 273-0582 
Have pity on a car-less Freshman! I also need ride to Worcester for break-or anywhere in MA! Drive stick, split gas/tolls, nice company for 16hrs-call X2608 
Brunos needs waitresses. Must be 
21 and able to work weekends. 
Please call288-3320 for interview. 
For Rent FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF CAMPUS. 272-0615 

FURNISHED 8 BEDROOM HOME GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2n3097 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­APPROVED HOMES-JPW, GRAD., etc. •219-291-7153• 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 
112 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595 
FREE MAID SERVICE '94-95 Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B.B. & 
sand V-ball courts. 234-3831 or 273-0482 
PARTY TIME '94-95 Big 6 bedrm. Safe area. Free maid sevice. Beach V-ball & B.B. courts. Furnished. Washer & dryer. 273-0482 or 234-3631. 
For Sale 
86 VW Jetta 

$1250 or best offer 
2n-0485 

VALENTINES DAY GIFT? 
For Sale: 16 .01 Diamond Ring 
A-Quality Appraisal Value: $550 
Will Sell for Less Callx4-4205 
Leave Message w/Ofler 
Tickets 

I have an extra ticket to Garth!! 
Call Sean at x3102 and give best 
offer! 

WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 1 JPW TICKET TO ALL OR SOME EVENTS! CALL MEGAN 4-2630 
Need to trade two Garth Brooks 
tickets for Sun. 13 to Sat. 12. 
Call x2126/x3219 
Begging you to trade your Sat. 
Garth tix for my Sun. tix Patrice 
232-5030 

Plane Ticket to Boston for Spring 
Break -REALLY CHEAP. call Alex 
at x1679 

2 tickets to the Sun. Garth concert 
for sale I Call with your best offer 
at x3610 Personal 

ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-600-272-5810. 
SPRING BREAK! Student Holidays, the nation's leader in Spring Break vacations offering the uHimate trip to CANCUN, MEXICO! The #1 Student Spring Break Destination from $399 Package includes hotel, flight and parties! Organize a small group and travel for FREE! CALL RICHI1-800-360-TRIP 
SNAP-A-SCAM. Want a picture of that someone special without revealing your identity? We'll get it for you! Sign up Tues., Wed., and Thurs. at NOH and SOH during din­ner hours. $2.00/scam. Proceeds go to the Mara Fox Scholarship Fund. 
Anyone going to Columbus, Dayton, or anywhere in Ohio this weekend? If you have any room in your car, please call Michelle at X4376 
Taylor-I don't want you to feel deprived any longer for your per­sonal classified ads. I am sorry that I have slacked lately. 
Love, Jamie 
Hey BECCA PETERSEN­

Thanks for the great dance! You 
and your drinks were as tasty as 
ever you sexy little freak! 
valentines day special 

university hairstylist $2.00 off any 
service monday feb. 14th 
9am-9pm 631-5144 
SEAN MCKENNA! 
SEAN MCKENNA! 

Do you like to talk on the phone? 
Come lathe 
Women's Care Center 
Phone-A-Than 
Feb.7,8,9,14,15,& 16 
6:30-8:30pm 
2nd floor-Admin. Bldg. 
SEND SOME LOVE! 

U.P.S. a Valentine to your Sweetheart thru THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LaFortune Lower Level 
M-F 10-5 Sat. 11-4 College of Business Administration MUGS!II 
Only $10 and on sale Feb 7-11 from 11 am to 1 pm in the Hayes-Healy Lobby 
Sponsored by the NO Marketing 
Club~ 
JODI: You are absolutely the sexiest and most erotic girl this side of IUSB. PS Drop the attitude! 
happy 21 rst birthday KYLE HAR­GETII -anabel 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free 
Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 
1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! 
Fly out of Chicago and spend 6 
days on the beach! We have the 
best trips & prices! Includes air & 
hotel & parties from $3991 1-600­
678-6386 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Mad/legal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 
*.......BEAT THE RUSH**••-•• 
VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching, and if you want to write a classified to that special someone, you can type your ad now. Your message willlij)pear in the special Valentine's Observer on Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. 
What are you doing for 
Spring Break???? 
Try out the .... 
APPALLACHIA SEMINAR! 
Slots are still available -inquiry at 
the Center for Social Concerns. 

So did you get the gist of the puz­zle/ Senior Bar Ads?? 
If you want GREAT specials figure them out and uncover the best kept secret in townlllll 
Deals! Deals! Deals! Deals! 
*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*& 
PW CARNATION SALE: 
Camationas will be sold in both din­ing halls during lunch and dinner this week for $1. All proceeds bene­fit the Tara Deutsch Scholarship Fund. Flowers will be delivered on Sunday, Feb. 13. 
Tell that special someone how much you care: 
Red= I love you. Pink= I like you. White= Let's get acquainted. Yellow= We're friends. and .... Green= ??????? 
*&.& *& *& *& *& *& *&*&*&.&*&.&*&. 
Ill VALENTINES DAY Ill 
Monday, February 14 

Come on in to IRISH GARDENS (basement of LaFortune) for all of your Valentine's Day needs. We have a plethora of flowers, bal­loons, cards, and candy. We also deliver on-campus and to surround­ing apt. complexes. •• V-day deliveries and pick-up orders must be placed by 5:00 Fri. Feb. 11. Ill VALENTINE'S DAY Ill 
VALENTINE'S 
VALENTINE'S 
VALENTINE'S 

Suzy Zoo Cards, KC Knox 
Kids Photo Cards, Seinfeld and Farsidel Chocolate Ups, filled hearts and cuddly bears, kitties and puppies! Luv cuffs with /keys and Love Matches! Your heart's desire! 
The Country Harvester 
LaFortune Lower Level 
M-F 10.5 Sat. 11-4 
I'm going insane--where's the photo album! 

---------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------,. 
page 14 
Skating will be show no matter what happens 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 

Yes, CBS would like Tonya Harding to compete. Soap opera plus detective show plus "High Noon" on ice add up to record ratings. 
But even if Nancy Kerrigan skates without her rival, the network's coverage of the women's figure-skating finals Feb. 25 is a good bet to be the most watched Olympic telecast ever in the United States. 
''A lot of people would be in­terested in seeing both of them skate, the drama that goes with it," said Mark Harrington, CBS Sports' vice president for the Olympics. "But if she doesn't come, it will still be a great night of skating." 
Among the CBS legions in Lillehammer -more than 700 strong -opinions are divided as to Harding's chances of com­peting. 
Harrington said he's stopped guessing: "The story's taken so many twists and turns." 
The women's figure-skating final traditionally is the most watched Olympic event, sum­mer or winter. The record Olympic Nielsen rating, accord­ing to CBS Sports senior vice president Richard Gentile, is 30 for the 1998 Games in Calgary, when Katerina Witt won her second gold medal. 
CBS posted a 27 rating in 1992 with Kristi Yamaguchi's gold in Albertville, and 30 this year seems easily withing reach. 
But Harrington and his col­leagues don't want to make projections, fearing they might create unrealistic expectations about Super Bowl-level ratings in the 40s. "We're going to have a big story no matter what," said Verne Lundquist, who will han­dle the skating play-by-play. "But what happens if Nancy falls in her short program (Feb. 23), and suddenly she's strug­gling just for a place in the top five? You can feel America go, "Ohmy God.' 

SINGING VALENTINES 


PRaN1ID 
BYM 
NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB A $5.00 VALENTlNE 
A LOVE sa-c AMl RID RmOEJ.NERID IN P£RSON TO YOJF..5W'E£Tl-£AT a-l CAMPU5. SUI'C BY A SlliCT GROJP CF THE f\t)TR£ DAME lliE QUI. 
A 
$3.00 
VALENTINE 
A lCNE sa-cTO A LO/ID CN. a-l THE PHONE ANYWHERE IN lHE LNlTID STATES 

ON SALE FEB. 9TH. 10TH. & liTH AT NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HAUS. 


"That's the fear we all have." 
CBS hopes the Harding-Kerri­gan drama will fuel interest in other events, rather than dis­tract from them. 
"There will be more emphasis and talk about the Olympics in general," Harrington said. 'There are going to be some other great stories that are go­ing to burst on people suddenly when the Games start." 
He cited the Olympic comeback of 1988 gold medalist Brian Boitano and the contrasting quests for gold by U.S. speed­skating stars Bonnie Blair, a three-time winner already, and Dan Jansen, stymied in three past Olympics. 
llut there is no question what event will take the spotlight, and not everyone thinks the public fascination is healthy. 
Lundquist said his CBS col­league and analyst. 1984 gold medalist Scott Hamilton, is fed up with the furor. 
"He's very sorry that some­thing like this has intruded in his sport, and I'm sympathetic to how he feels." Lundquist said Tuesday. ''But as a journalist, it's a great story." 
The saga has not altered CBS Sports' plans for coverage of the skating event itself, but off­the-ice developments have prompted extra deployments by the network's news division, Harrington said. 
At no point has CBS been tempted to alter its program­ming schedule and show the skating final live, he said. It starts at 7 p.m. local time, or 1 
p.m. in New York, but CBS won't show it until the prime­time broadcast from 8-11 p.m. EST. 
"A lot more people are going to be able to watch it then," he said. 
The ratings outcome hinges on how many people tune in who normally wouldn't bother with figure skating. Harrington doesn't know how big that group is, but he says the public fascination stems in part from the jarring nature of the attack on Kerrigan. 
Wednesday, February 9, 1994 





Wednesday 
is the last day to turn in your $10.00 deposit for the 
Junior Class Ski Trip to Bittersweet! 
Turn in money to the Junior Class Office. 

in the Hesburgh Library tonum at pm, reception to follow featured in the 1994 festival: 
•
Michael Harper 

•June 
Jordan 

•
Alison Lurie* 

•Charles 
Johnson 

•Joy 
Harjo 


*Frank Deford has been rescheduled for 4/13/94 
(Sun. 2/13) (Mon. 2/14) (Tues. 2/15) (Wed. 2/16) (Thurs. 2/17) 
Wednesday, February 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-
USOC to have final say on Harding's Olympic status 
By LARRY SIDDONS 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 

The U.S. Olympic Committee, troubled by Tonya Harding's role in the Nancy Kerrigan assault, called a special hearing for next Tuesday at an Oslo air­port hotel to decide whether to bar the U.S. champion skater from the Winter Games. 
If Harding is banned, her only chance of competing in Ullehammer would be through a court order. 
The USOC's decision to con­vene its Games Administrative Board was buttressed by a 400­page volume of evidence from a figure skating federation inquiry, and Harding's own statements. 
"It's not a matter of hearing more, it's a matter of giving Tonya Harding a chance to respond, which she has not had a chance to do," USOC presi­dent LeRoy Walker said. He said Harding could submit her case in person or in writing, but hoped she would testify. There was no immediate word if she would. 
"But we would like to present her, in person, the charges and grounds for charges that have been leveled by the (figure skat­ing) panel to get her response," said Walker on NBC's "Today". 
"They want to talk to Tonya," USOC executive director Harvey Schiller said. "I think it is a response that is required by the grounds surrounding the attack on Nancy Kerrigan." 
The inquiry will deal more with "sportsmanship and fair play aspects rather than crimi­nal culpability," he said. 
The administrative board is the USOC's ultimate authority at the Games, and its decision is final. Harding could sue if she were removed from the team, but Walker said that possibility would not affect the USOC's decision. 
"We do not wish to respond to this in terms of what may even­tually come in terms of suits," he said. "We want to do what is absolutely fair." 
"They have described kind of a broad spectrum of concerns and issues, much of which, but not all of which, are the same things raised by the United States Figure Skating Association," Harding attorney Bob Weaver said. 
He said the Olympic committee had "some different provisions of their own standards and bylaws" that diverge from the figure skating association's rules. 
John Ruger, a member of the panel and chairman of the USOC athletes advisory com­mission, said the board was committed to treating Harding fairly. 
"It would be difficult for me to speculate about what she is going to say. That would be pre-judging her situation," Ruger said. "From 'an athlete's standpoint, the key point is that this is due process and that she gets ·due process." 
Harding will remain on the team until at least the end of the hearing, Feb. 15, three days after the Winter Games begin and eight days before the start of women's figure skating, its glamour event. 
The glamour of the ice is what lured Harding to skating as a 3­

$1500.00 SCHOLARSHIP 
for eight weeks 
of your summer 
devoted to service work
* APPLICATION DEADLINE February 11 
stop by the Center for Soct n1 Concerns for tnfo nnd ttpp1tcntton 
year-old. Now, after a bizarre series of events and disclosures, she may never reach the ulti­mate trophy of athletic accom­plishment -an Olympic medal. 
The meeting will be held at the SAS Park Royal Hotel, across the street from Fornebu Airport. Schiller said the USOC wanted to meet out of town to keep from disrupting prepara­tions at the Olympic site. 
Between nine and 13 people will hear the case. Walker will decide how many votes are needed to decide Harding's fate. 
The USOC panel will be the third to investigate Harding's role in the attack on Kerrigan, who was clubbed on the right knee as she left a practice rink at the U.S. Figure Skating Championships in Detroit Jan. 6. 
The U.S. Figure Skating Association is conducting its own investigation of Harding, a process that won't be finished until after the Winter Olympics but which could result in her expulsion from the sport. 
Last Saturday, a USFSA panel found "reasonable grounds" to believe Harding was involved in the plot to injure Kerrigan. 
In addition, a grand jury in Multnomah County, Ore., is hearing evidence to determine if allegations by Harding's ex­husband, Jeff Gillooly, are true: That the skater gave the go­ahead to attack Kerrigan, and was involved in the plot and the cover-up. 
Harding says she learned of the plot after the attack but admits withholding information from authorities. She says she feared her former husband and his friends would retaliate. 
Her admission on Jan. 27 was accompanied by a plea to have "my last chance" at an Olympic gold medal. The confession and the figure skating panel's find­ings weighed heavily in the USOC's decision to call its own hearing, Schiller said. "There are a number of issues to be considered," Schiller said, "and among them are statements that she's made in the past few weeks about her knowledge of the attack when she returned to Portland." 
Another U.S. skater must cope with tragedy 
By LISA CORNWALL 
Associated Press 

SHEFFIELD LAKE, Ohio 
Olympic skater Elizabeth Punsalan wept as she prayed today during a funeral Mass for her father, who police say was killed by her brother hours af­ter the brother was released from a psychiatric hospital. 
Punsalan -supported on one side by her husband and skating partner, Jerod Swallow, and on the other by her sister, Ellen Negar -knelt and prayed after receiving commu­nion. 
Dr. Ernesto R. Punsalan, 57, was stabbed Friday as he slept in his home in this Lake Erie shoreline community about 20 miles west of Cleveland. 
His son, Ricardo Punsalan, 20, on Monday pleaded inno-
AMANDATORY MEETING FOR THOSE INTERESTED IN RUNNING FOR: 
~ 

1tt'STUDENT SENATE [g/cLASS OFFICE ~OFF·CAMPUS CO·PRESIDENT 

THURS.kFEB. 1Oth at 7:30 p.m.
FOSTER OOM, 3rd Floor LaFortune 
cent to a charge of aggravated murder and waived his right to a preliminary hearing. Lorain -·· Municipal Judge Gustalo Nunez ordered Punsalan held without bond. 
During the Mass at St. Thomas the Apostle Church, the Rev. John McCaffrey asked the congregation's prayers for all of the Punsalans, including Ricardo. 
Of the doctor, he said, "His love for all five of his children continues, without exception, and is perfected in heaven." 
Punsalan is survived by his wife, Theresa Punsalan; the two daughters and three sons -Ernesto Jr.. Ricardo and Robert. 
The church service followed a private service at a funeral home. 
Ricardo Punsalan's case has been turned over to the Lorain County grand jury. His court­appointed lawyer, Joseph Grunda, said Punsalan appeared alert and aware Monday. 

-
Va/entJIIB Specials a.• +up
Maternowski's 212·0910 103 Dixie wayAJs 31-1/2 mi. N 


Cancun Mexico &cm$439 Negril Jamaica &om$449 Montego Bay Jamaica &om$419 Daytona Beach, FL &om$149 Panama City Beach, FL &om$129 
-
Call for 
Rea Local. 
Presentative 

l20,_._,..,,_,NYl415C 
1·800-848-4849 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
-
Northwestern's Byrdsong takes leave 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Ricky Byrdsong came to Northwestern with a tough approach for a struggling bas­ketball program, promising an opportunity for his players to show they were better than their record. 
Now, the rebuilding is on hold and Byrdsong has taken a leave of absence after a week­end game that saw him roam the stands, slapping hands with fans and the opponent's mascot. 
When Byrdsong took over, he removed Patrick Baldwin as team captain, made Dion Lee 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
Travis Trice hit a pair of free throws to end the Irish threat. 
The pair combined for 3 3 points. 
jlut the Bulldogs won the game on the defensive end, holding Monty Williams to just 14 points on 6-for-14 shooting. 
"Williams makes Notre Dame seem like a loaded gun being waved around the room," Col­lier said. "Fortunately, we kept him from going off." 
Butler also kept Notre Dame's other weapons from firing. Guice and Trice blanketed Hoover and Keith Kurowski, who combined for just 7-for-19 from the field including 2-for-8 from 3-point range. 
"Statistically, {Williams, Hoover and Kurowski) are 
change  his  name  and  ran  
tough practices.  
The  Wildcats  initially  

responded, opening with nine victories before reality arrived in the form of the Big Ten sea­son. Now, after eight straight losses, the Wildcats are back in their familiar spot in the con­ference basement and Byrdsong has asked for some time ofT. 
Both athletic director Rick Taylor and assistant coach Paul Swanson, now in charge of the team, say they are not sure why Byrdsong asked for the leave of absence. 
"I didn't see any more strain than any other coach has gone through," Swanson said 
there three big guys," Collier said. "We wanted to key on them and we did a good job of that tonight." 
Notre Dame watched a quick 6-0 lead evaporate as Butler went on a 17-2 run to take con­trol of the game midway through the first half. 
Kurowski then scored five of his seven points in the last minute of the half to pull the Irish to within one. 
But the rally faded after the intermission. 
"We couldn't come out in the second half and fire," MacLeod said. "They were sharper than we were and they kept the de­fensive pressure on us." 
In the wake of a pair of sur­prising weekend wins, it ap­peared that the loss to Butler would be particularly disap­pointing. 
But MacLeod quickly tired of that idea. 

Tuesday, the day after the leave of absence was announced. "He'd been very focused in practice. Other than that I can't see any additional strain. 
"I don't think there was a buildup of pressure based on losses. We were building a foundation this year." 
Swanson has spoken with Byrdsong since the team returned from the trip to Minneapolis, where they lost to Minnesota 79-65 Saturday night. Taylor, who just became the athletic director last month, said he had not talked to the coach as of Monday night but had been in touch with his wife. 
"Yes we wanted to win. We wanted to win in the worst way," he said after hearing enough from the media about disappointment and frustration. 
''I'm not going to beat on our kids, they've been playing their tails off. This is a temporary setback. We're going to keep trying like a bulldog." 
BUTLER (67): Taylor 1·7 2·2 4, Miskel5·11 0·0 
10. Cowart 3-7 0·1 4, Graves 2-4 0·1 4, Guice 4·9 7-817, Trice 5-8 4-5 16. Kon 1·5 4-6 6, McKenzie 2·5 Q-0 4, Wilson 0-Q 0·0 0. TOTALS: 23·56 17·22 67. NOTRE DAME (57): M. Williams 6-15 2-314, Taylor 5-7 0-0 12, Joe Ross 1-4 1-2 3, Hoover 4-10 2-2 12, Justice 3-7 1·2 7, White 0-2 0-0 0, Jon Ross 1·3 o-o 2, Miller 0·2 0·0 0, Cozen 0-1 0-0 0, Hughes 0-Q 0-Q 0, Kurowski 3-91-1 7, J. Williams Q-0 Q-0 0, Ryan 0-Q 0-0 0, Keaney 0-o o-o 0. TOTALS: 23-60 7-10 57. 
Halftime: Buller 28, Notre Dame 27. 3-point goals: Buller 4-11 (Trice 2-4, Guice 2-5, Graves 0­1, McKenzie 0-1), Notre Dame 4-17 (Hoover 2-6, Taylor 2-3, Kurowski 0-2, M. Williams 0-1, Miller 0­1). Total fouls (fouled out): Buller 11 (none), Notre Dame 20 (none). Rebounds: Buller 39 (Miskel10), Notre Dame 35 (M. Williams 10). Assists: Butler 13 (Trice 7), Notre Dame 12 (M. Williams 3, Justice 3). Turnovers: Buller 13 (Taylor 4), Notre Dame 13 (Hoover 5). 
Attendance: 8,674. 
Wednesday, February 9, 1994 
Duke nips Ga. Tech 
Associated Press 

IRVING, Texas 
Dallas owner Jerry Jones said Tuesday that the new Jacksonsville franchise could be severely penalized if it tries to hire away Cowboys coach Jimmy Johnson. 
The Florida Times-Union said the Jaguars met with Johnson last week in Miami and the coach expressed interest in joining the expansion organiza­tion. 
"If Jacksonville contacts him, it's very much against the rules and the club could be subject to severe penalty," Jones said. 
Jaguars owner Wayne Weaver denied a meeting took place. 
"We've had absolutely no con­tact with Jimmy Johnson ­personally, by phone or by con­tacts," Weaver said from his office in Connecticut. "There is 
no validity to any of it." The Times-Union stood by its story. 
"We've been on top of this sit­uation from the start," sports editor Joe DeSalvo said. 
Jones said the NFL told Jacksonville that Johnson has five years remaining on his contract with the Cowboys and there are "no outs." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

~'-~.~-~~stria~ ~~-~b
l\11 ~~~~·iPieeting for all m.emi:Jet'f concerning the show, QD ~onday, Feb. 14 at 8;30_. pw1ln 2;2 hesburgh Lib~!,lcy.;;'.Q~estions?-Megan 63+~813 h\;+#$tJi• . %
q( 

Attef)tl.c;>n ~allors· There will be. a, wee,piig OJ1 Feb. 10 this Thuisday in rm.'120, O'Shag at 7pm>'Ifyou'can't make it call Patrice at 284·5238. 
Don't Forget that Special Someone. 
15 Specials starting at $20.00! FREE DELIVERY! Bear In a Balloon with cand11 ..... ..........$28.00 and up 
Everlasting Love............. ...$40.00 
Gigantic 36" mylar with jumbo latex. large bear and Hershey's Kisses 

~~o~N• 
511 East Jefferson 232-0302 
--

~o~sERVER 
is now accepting applications for the 
1994-95 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to jake Peters by Thursday, Feb. 10 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, over­sees the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
_____,___~------------------------~­
Wednesday;February 9, 1994 
Photo courtesy of Louisville Sports lnlonnation Louisville head coach Denny Crum was inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame yesterday. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Crum tops list of Hall of Fan1e elects 
By TRUDY TYNAN 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. 
While other kids of the '50s were trying to pass like Cousy, Denny Crum looked to the side­lines for his boyhood heroes. 
"I idolized my coaches," said the Louisville coach, who was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame on Tuesday along with two other coaches and two players. 
"I thought they were the ones who should get most of the credit," Crum said. "They're the ones that teach the kids what to do and how to do it. I always looked up to them be­cause of it." 
Also entering the Hall are New York Nets coach Chuck Daly and Cesare Rubini, one of the founders of Italian basketball who led his Milan team to 15 Italian championships, five as a player and 10 as a coach. 
Elected as players were Carol Blazejowski, the most prolific scorer in the history of worn­en's basketball, and Harry "Buddy" Jeannette, a standout backcourt player in the 1930s and 1940s. 

The new members will be in­ducted on May 9. 
Blazejowski was nominated by the women's committee, Rubini was picked by the international committee and Jeannette by the veterans committee. 
"It's the kind of thing you think of as happening to some­one else," Daly Daly said. 
"But let me tell you, it's a thrilling feeling," said the coach who won back-to-hack NBA championships with the Pistons, four Ivy League titles at Penn and an Olympic gold medal with the Dream Team. 
"I was talking about it with my daughter. The la~t time I was at the Hall of Fame was more than 20 years ago and she was just a toddler." 


• A FIRESIDE CHAT • 

Come leam aboutthe Anabaptist historyand cutture. Gain a nevv perspecUve on the componerrt6 ofthe Anabaptist religions -the Mennonttes, the Amish, and the Hutterites 


THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10 12:15-I:OOPM 
NOTRE DAME RooM 
LAFORTUNE 


Authentic Amish Lunch Provided 
BRoUGHT To You BY THE MuLTICULTURAL EXEcuTIVE CouNCIL 



.• 
-
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
to Copier. 
Team members were pleased with the outcome of the match. 
"As a team, we all played pretty well," said Vitale. "Wis­consin is a good team and a big rival of ours. This is defi­nitely a test for us if we want to move into the Top Ten." 
"These matches have been a good preperation for us, but we have to raise our level of play," said Crabtree. "Last year we had a lot of close matches, but now we have to win and pull them out." 


~ 
111E r10RRIS INN 
Of NOTRE D411E 

NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 
Public Welcome 

Valentine's Dinner Specials Starting at $9.75 
Includes Soup, Salad, Entree and Special Dessert 

Specials Available from February 11 -February 14 
For Reservations Call 
. 631-2020 

-

i ~­
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 9, 1994 
Michigan crushes IU, moves into first 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
It was a sweet return Tues­day night for Jimmy King and Ray Jackson. Chris Webber loved it, too. 
With King and Jackson back in the Michigan lineup from one-game suspensions and Webber rooting from the end of the bench, the No. 11 Wolverines beat No. 12 Indiana 91-67 and took over sole pos­session of frrst place in their Big Ten showdown with the Hoosiers. 
Norbut 
continued from page 20 
all faculty advisor Dr. Charlie Rice told us when we stepped in the ring. 
I think that's about the time my heart stopped. 
It didn't take long for it to start again, though. One quick jab to the forehead from Todd and I was jolted back to reality. 
For some reason, I just could not help laughing inside while I was in the ring. I (a Murphy jab connects with my face) was boxing (a double jab knocks my head backwards) one of my best friends (another Murphy jab connects with my face but a right cross misses). 

-
But suddenly, the laughter faded away. It wasn't about pussyfooting around in the ring anymore or looking tough hit­ting the bags. I had to bury my emotions and hit my opponent. For four minutes, Todd Mur­phy, my roomate, would have to become a moving piece of meat. A moving piece of meat that 
Al:f VEmiA (PC13): 1!:21. 2:45, 5;11,7.1:21 llfiiiVII'I!•IPCl: 1;11, 3:11, 5:15,7:15, t15 100111:1:45,4:21,7:21.1.. -.nII lllll (PC13):1:15, 4:15,1:45,1;11 •m!Pl1!:15, 2:311, 5:15,7;31,1;45 PIIMBHIA IPC13): 1:31,4:45,7:15,1:45 
•.-.nJf(PC13): 4:15,7:15, t45 Til AI.TIII!Pl4:21,7;11,1;31 IAM'I..I(PC13):5;11,7:•• 1.. 


King scored 17 points and Jackson 13 for the Wolverines (16-4, 8-2 Big Ten) who never trailed. Jalen Rose scored 20 points for the Wolverines and Juwan Howard had 19 points. 
It was Bobby Knight's 700th game as coach of the Hoosiers (14-5, 7-3). As fate would have it, the only one of the previous century games he lost was No. 500, a 72-60 loss to Michigan on Jan. 24, 1988. 
Michigan's defense held Indiana's Alan Henderson to 18 points and Damon Bailey to 17. 
But it was the offense that won this game. The Wolverines 
could punch back, that is. 
As soon as my brain was able to rationalize this, the one­sided bout became a total free­for-all. I fought back with a vengeance. 
We had neither strategy nor any form to speak of. We did very little dancing and abso­lutely no blocking, but we sure did a lot of punching. I found myself a few times fighting like I did in third grade-with my eyes closed and both fists flail­ing. 
Even though Todd had a reach advantage, it did not stop me from getting some good shots on him. I popped him twice with my right hand across his head just before the round ended. 

ANNE CUSICK 
of Diocese of Samoa • Pago Pago 
will be in LaFortune Student Center basement near the Society Bank on February 12 from 12:00 noon to 5:00p.m. to speak with those students who might be interested in the two year teaching program in American Samoa . 
hit 20-of-32 shots for a blister­ing 62.5 percent in the first half and finished with 54 percent on 34-of-63 shooting. It was the first time this season the Hoosiers have allowed an oppo­nent to shoot 50 percent or bet­ter. 
The Hoosiers, who came in riding a four-game stretch of shooting 50 percent or better, shot 40.4 percent, hitting 23-of­57 shots. 
The other key was keeping Indiana away from the free throw line. The Hoosiers fre­quently make more free throws 
But the biggest thrill was yet to come. Todd had given me a bloody nose. 
I don't know why I was so happy, but I suddenly felt like a real boxer. The reasons for putting myself through all the pushups and situps were fmally realized in the few drops of red ooze that trickled from my right nostril. 
I only wish that I could have left it there for round two. 
The second round went a lot like the first, with the only dif­ference being that we moved a lot slower. My legs felt like pudding and my lungs were heaving. Even my gloves were too heavy to lift. 
It didn't seem to matter to Todd, though. His arms were 
than their opponents take. But in this game the Hoosiers were 14-of-21 from the line, the Wolverines 16-of-21. 
King and Jackson both start­ed and played key roles in stak­ing the Wolverines to a 16-point halftime lead. 
With Webber, in town for a brief visit, sitting on the end of the Michigan bench, the Wolverines led all the way after a 2-2 tie. 
A 3-pointer by King triggered a 12-1 run that put Michigan ahead 40-25 with 5:52 left in the half. 
too tired to jab at me anyway. 
I returned Todd's first round favor in the second, giving him a bloody nose as well. But somehow, it didn't feel as sweet as being on the receiving end. Maybe I was just too tired to enjoy it. 
The best part of my first spar­ring experience, though, had to be walking out of the ring and giving my opponent, roommate, and friend a high five. No mat­ter what anyone says, nothing compares to the honor and respect shared between two boxe.r~ after they're finished slugging it out with one anoth­er. 
That doesn't mean I'm not going to try to knock him sense­less next time, though. 
COMPLETE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS 


SOUTH PADRE ISLAND DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH 

LAS VEGAS VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANG !SLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND

-BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
:AYETTE S 
OWNHO 
"Luxury LivinK You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet OurFriendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR ADIII1liNAL lfliVMJION IIIESBIVlTIINS FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
~~~-------------23_2_-8_25_6____________~ 

Wednesday, February 9, 1994 The Observer· TODAY page 19 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SPELUNKER 




-~=""-·-· 

~~.­
OF INTEREST

'· 1994 Wane<son!Otst Urwersal Press Syndtcale 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
-J · [Y)Ep,,.., T :L-A1'1 Tao or 
ffiA~BIC D£s \s /<.1&1\1· iliA~BIC 
Ths'iiBILin<:S
c~ IT I C.Al 
Osv•ousc'1 A.

(Y\ot>"' R.N AR. r ... 
~~Not-"6~ . 
1-\ui'IArnn.o;'< 'STIN66LE 
l>J•-r" T>IE N•w 
('1\AC.!<INE 
(\&E. ... 

CROSSWORD 
DAVE KELLETT 
-
S:G.'IPllAN ANIS 

BILL WATTERSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'<0\l'O n\\\'\1<. A G\J'{ W\\0 CLEf:\W,
'IWR W\1\'SKER'S ARE TOO \JNR\JL'{. 
\-1\tJ..'SHt WIT\-\ \-\\'3 TONG\J'e:
'{~ S~LD WAK ~EM A~O M~~[ 
'NO\Jl\) \3E 0\'I:.N \\) GROOM\~&
A IW-1\)\..'e:gf\.R ¥1\JSTI\c~E. 
S\JG:i'C'ST\O~S. 
I 
1 
-
1 I 
l 





SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, February 9, 1994 
Average better than Irish 

Butler too much for sloppy Irish 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
It was a meeting of the mediocre. 
And Notre Dame was more ordinary that its opposition, dropping a 67-57 decision to 

'-Butler Tuesday at the Joyce Center. "We're just an average team trying not to be average," But­
ler coach Barry Collier said. 
Average was enough against a sluggish Irish team that van­ished in the second half. 
Trailing just 37-36, Notre Dame couldn't find the basket for four minutes and the Bull­dogs opened an 11-point lead. 
"We were in a quagmire with our hip boots on," Irish coach John MacLeod said. 
"We had something called three in four (three games in four days). Fatigue was a fac­tor, but that's no excuse. I don't want to take away from what Butler did." 
What Butler did was take ad­vantage of Notre Dame's fatigue to build its lead and some late Irish miscues to pro­teet it. 
Irish forward Billy Taylor scored two of his 12 points to cut the lead to 60-55 with 1:05 remaining. 
But after the teams traded baskets, Ryan Hoover devel­oped Webber's Disease, calling a timeout Notre Dame didn't have to draw a technical foul. 
"We obviously didn't make it clear enough that we didn't have any timeouts left," MacLeod said. "I'll take the blame for that." 
Then Guice and Trice iced the Irish. Jermaine Guice hit one of his two technical foul shots and 
see IRISH I page 16 
PART Two 

The second in a series of arti­cles by Assistant Sports Editor Mike Norbut as he trains for his first Bengal Bouts 
-
I
n every walk of life, there comes a time when you must take a 
journey, a leap of faith if you will, to really test your enthusiasm for a cause. 
For Catholics, it's known as Confirmation. For Jewish people, it's called a Bar Mitzvah. But for boxers, it's a ritu­al called sparring. 

Anyone who is halfway interested in being a boxer will gladly get in the ring to spar. Of course, I was no different. saw it as an opportunity to take some actual punches and show what I could do. 
Picking my first sparring partner was easy. My roommate, Todd Murphy, has been a Bengal Bouter for as long as I have, two weeks, and had also never been in the ring before yes­terday. 
I have spent just about every waking second of my training with him, and I figured that since we were such good 
"Todd has the wing span ofa small condor, and can easily hold me offwith one hand while whaling on me with the other. , 
Top-A nose bleed slows Mike during his first sparring session. 
Left -Mike throws a left jab at sparring partner -Todd Murphy. 
:f 


friends, maybe we'd take it easy on each other in the ring. There was one slight problem, though. 
For one thing, Todd has a wing span of a small condor, and can easily hold me off with one hand while whaling on me with the other. 
Oh, and the agreement I thought we had about not hurting one another? That must have been a figment of my imagination. 
"You just better keep your guard up, 
NAME THE NORBUTContest 
The first week brought some interesting entries, but the search continues for the perfect name for Mike. Suggestions should be given to the sports desk at The Observer, third floor LaFortune or by phone at 631­
4543. 
because that's the only way you'll sur­vive our little scuffle," my roomate growled before yesterday's practice. 
Well, I figured, at least the trainers would be there to keep a close eye on us. I thought they'd start us off the way they did with almost every group up until that time. Some dancing around, trading jabs for a while, maybe practice blocking punches ... 
"Two rounds, anything goes," was 
see NORBUT I page 18 

Women's tennis aces No. 25 Wisconsin 
By KATE CRISHAM Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team proved that they are worthy of their 18th­place national ranking as they soundly defeated 25th-ranked rival Wisconsin 7-2 in a dual match yesterday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish responded well to the challenge of playing the season's first nationally ranked opponent, overcoming an early case of nerves to improve their record to 4-0. 
"We played a little nervous," admitted head coach Jay Louderback. "But winning 7-2 against a good team will be good for our confidence." 
"Wisconsin is ranked third in our region, and it was important for us to play well against them." 
Louderback was pleased with his team's performance. 
"Our number two doubles team played very well," he said. "They played hard against a real solid Wisconsin team." 
Louderback also praised the play of sophomore Wendy Crabtree. 
"Wendy Crabtree played very well in sin­gles," he said. "I think making it to the quarterfinals of the Rolex Indoors definitely helped her mentally." 
Crabtree followed this weekend's impressive performance with wins in sin­gles and doubles. She defeated Marija Neubauer 6-2, 6-1 at number one singles and teamed up with senior Lisa Tholen to defeat Neubauer and Colleen Lucy 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 in number one doubles. 
Senior Christy Faustmann, sophomore Holyn Lord, and freshman Erin Gowen also recorded double wins. Faustmann and Gowen defeated Lauren Gavaris and Marjon Copier 6-4, 6-3 at number two dou­bles, while Lord and sophomore Sherri Vitale defeated Stephany Benz and Jamie Fouret 7-5, 3-6, 6-3 in a hard-fought match at number three doubles. 
Lord easily defeated Benz 6-2, 6-0 at number three singles. Faustman defeated Lucy 6-2, 6-2 at number four singles, while freshman Gowen was impressive in her 6­1, 6-1 match against Shannon Tully at number six singles. 
The only Irish losses were Tholen's 6-3, 6-3 loss to Gavaris at number two singles, and Vitale's hard-fought 1-6, 7-5, 6-1 loss 
see TENNIS I page 17 
Inside SPORTS Duke tops Tech 
NBAAction 
Aloha Hoosiers Mike Krzyzewski's Blue 

Indiana heads list of 
Rookie Jamal Mashburn 
Devils come from behind 
invites for next year's 

scores 24 points to lead 
to sneak by ACC rival 
Maui Invitational 

Dallas over Minnesota
-
Georgia Tech. 
see page 17 
see page 13 
see page 16 





