

Friday, January 21, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 73 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC quilt represents 150 years of tradition 
By MARY GOOD 
News Writer 
The quilt that served as the backdrop for yester­day's liturgical celebration at Saint Mary's repre­sents not only 500 hours of crafting by alumna Regina Lupo and over four miles of thread-it also 
• see SESQUICENTENNIAL, page 3 
represents 150 years of tradition. 
Lupo first learned of the quilting theme of the Saint Mary's Sesquicentennial last June when Vice President and Dean of Faculty Dorothy Feigl men­tioned that the sesquicentennial committee was still searching for an artist to create the backdrop for a liturgy planned to kick off the celebration of the College's 150th anniversary. 
Lupo offered Feigl a jacket she had quilted as a sample of her work. Feigl was impressed and fur­thered correspondence with Lupo over the sum­mer through Maureen Manier, a member of the Sesquicentennial committee. 
Lupo and Manier communicated via telephone and electronic mail and in August the committee gave Lupo the go ahead to begin work on a quilt to be used for the backdrop. 
"It is hard to say no to your Alma Mater." Lupo said, and so began four months of designing, sewing, sacrifice and satisfaction. 
Lupo has been sewing since age eight, but it wasn't until her youngest of four sons was born that she began quilting. 
She learned the rules of quilting from library books and from there she improved her skills through trial and error. Today Lupo's collection includes around 80 different quilted items of vari­ous sizes and she makes quilts on commission. 
Lupo developed the design of the quilt and draft­ed the templates herself. The design of the quilt is a 16-point diamond cut star in four shades of blue, violet, white and minimal traces of gold. This star represents the many facets of Saint Mary's womens' lives. The college emblem is dis­played in the four corners of the quilt showing that Saint Mary's students and Alumnae come from the four corners of the world. The Fleur­de-Lys in the border are symbols of the school's patron, Mary. The French Cross, which is the focal point of the quilt is a symbol of the Holy Cross Congregation who founded Saint Mary's. 
"And the celtic knots around the border symbol­ize the connectivity and unity of the Saint Mary's community of the past, present and future," Lupo said. 
Lupo did most of her sewing on weekends. Occasionally she fit an hour or two of work in amidst a busy schedule involving a part-time job teaching science at an elementary school in Omaha, Neb. 
On Dec. 9, 1993, Lupo emerged from under the quilt that consumed her time for four months. The final effect of the quilt was a mystery to Lupo herself until about an hour before she put it in the mail, for as it measures 15 ft. by 19ft. and weighs 25 pounds, it was too large for the Lupo family to spread out even in the largest room of their home. Consequently. before shipping the quilt, Lupo took it to her parish center to open up the work that equals that of four combined king sized quilts . 

"My husband was glad when I fin­ished, but I am sure he is proud," Lupo said. 
Now that the ·project is complete, Lupo feels separate from the piece. 
"I am now in a position where the quilt is not a part of me anymore," Lupo said. 
As the quilt was unveiled before the Saint Mary's community's eyes yester­day, she could only join her mother, a friend from Omaha and the rest of those present at the liturgy in admiring the 
see SMC I page 4 
Quilting to symbolize celebration 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Saint Marx's Editor 
Quilting, which traditionally has represented community along with women's and famil­ial history, will serve as the symbol of the 150 years of Saint Mary's as a women's col­lege during the Sesquicentennial. 
Throughout its 150-year tra­dition, Saint Mary's has always placed an emphasis on com­munity and the accomplish­ments of women, both symbol­ized in the art of quilting. 
"Quilting in multiple ways en­capsulates what Saint Mary's is about," said Dorthey Feigl, chairwoman of the Sesquicen­tennial Committee. 
With Saint Mary's always be­ing a leader in the arts, the symbolic theme of the art of quilting "just fit wonderfully," according to Feigl. 
"The appeal of quilting has mostly been a women's experi­ence," Feigl said, The ad­vancements pioneered for women at the College are also a symbol of the pioneer women who came together as a com­munity to capture family and women's history in the squares they quilted, according to Feigl. 
"Quilting was a community activity," Feigl said. "We view ourselves as a community. That is why we encourage stu­dents to stay on campus, be­cause education is a lot more than what you learn in a class­room. The community idea is emphasized in quilting." 
Because the College has al­ways placed a strong emphasis on the arts, Feigl said that quilting as an art form, also en­capsulated the academic tradi­tion of Saint Mary's, who ap­preciated the education of women long before others in the country. "Quilting is a very high form of art which has only recently been appreciated, which is true of much with women and their 
see QUILTING I page 4 



Freedom, space key factors in move to off-campus houses 
Editor's Note: The following stories are the third in a three­part series examining off-cam­pus housing options for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 
In searching for the perfect off-campus location, many stu­dents look beyond the tradi­tional apartment residence and toward the additional freedom and room availible in a house. 
in an apartment is like living in a dorm except that you might have girls living next to you." 
Some students find living in a house an attractive off-campus alternative because of the "indi­viduality" that its projects, as opposed to the often analogous nature of the apartments or town houses within a complex. · 
"A house just has more char­acter," said senior Tom Sear, who lives on Marion Street. " Living here gives us a greater identity." 
Doran agreed. 
"Each house develons its own 

'sense of responsibility to man­age yo,ur owri house hold," Sear said. . 
Despite the many benefits a house ·offers, it does have a downside for some residents. 
"The only thing missing is that we don't have many other tenance staff, maintenance and security of a home could easily become a headache, but Sear has no complaints about either. 

As for security, the house is equipped with an alarm system and is located across the street from a fire statiori, he said, and the landlord is good about up­keep and repairs. 
The communication between tenants and their landlord is extremely important in making the rent period go smoothly, said Greg Anderson, who rents nine area homes to students, 
inr.ludinlt SP.ar's Marion lor.;o­
"I'm looking for someone that I can relate to as well as a good group of tenants," he said. "I need to feel comfortable with them." 
Anderson has so far been suc­cessful in achieving this comfort level, as is witnessed by his fourteen years as a full-time landlord. In these years, he said that he has "had only two ugly situations with students." 
His locations, which include two homes on Marion and Navarre Streets, four homes on Saint Peter Street, and one 
homP on Hill StrPPt "r" <>l<;n 
character and our's 'is an im­people living around us," said tion. 
popular as most are rented as
• see APARTMENT, page 5 portant part of our lives," he Brian Irwin, who is one of The relationship between the soon as September or Octobersaid. 
Sear's roommates. There are 

two parties begins with a one of the year prior to occupancy.
"We have a lot more space But with the identity also only a few houses on the street hour interview that is a funda­The cost of living in the homes 
than we would in an apart­comes the reliability that must that are rented to students, he mental part of the application is around $190 per person each ment," said senior Jim Doran, said.
be assumed in sharing a house process which all of Anderson's month, not including the addi­
who lives at a house on Saint Without the added support of
with five roommates. prospective tenants must com­
Louis Street. "I think that living "It's definitely an increased an apartment complex's main­plete, he said. 
see HOUSES I page 4 

i 
! 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
I 

have a dreatn 
It was only one man's dn~:~m_ hut it wnh~ up the world. 
Over 200,000 people were present when Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. made his famous March on Washington Speech in 1963. Yet his powerful words echoed to millions more around the globe. And still echoes in our Kenya Johnson ears today. 

Accent Editor 
On January 17, the observance of Dr. King's birthday, we remem--------­bered his dream and what it means to each o us. Now, a mere four days later, are we quickly forgetting the dream? 
Gone are the parades, the commemorative speeches and the boycotts from classes. Gone are the televisions specials and commercials dedicated to him. Gone are the "love thy neigh­bor" actions which Dr. King once envisioned. Gone is January 17th. 
As we move forth into this new year, let's remember how imperative it is to live out Dr. King's dream everyday. What better to cele­brate his birthday than by living his dream, for­ever. 
From sunup to sundown let's all try to see each person as a brother or sister. Look for the ways in which we are similar, not different. Learn something new about a different culture. Commit ourselves to world peace. 
King once described a hopeful vision that "my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character". To him it was a dream in which people of every color, creed and country could believe. He gave his life trying to make it come true. 
Yet sadly, we, as a world, are still struggling to fulfill Dr. King's dream for which he died. King's children most likely are still being judged by the color of their skin. We still are not all working for that one peaceful dream. 
They say "be a King for a day." I say be a King every day. The work, the hopes that King held and the things that he stood for -embody them. Make them a part of your everyday living. Admit to yourself that we still have a very long way to go in order to fulfill King's dream. In fact, don't allow it to only be Dr. King's dream -make it your dream too. And everyone who has a dream deserves a chance to fulfill it. 
If enough people dream, then the dream can come true. King's dream of equality is shared by more people of all races than ever before. His zeal, eloquence and passion inspired mil­lions to join the cause he pursued until his der.th. And yet and still, more people need to · oin in this pursuit. 
I'm not saying it's easy. But it is necessary and I know it's what I must do to make this world a place where "my four children will one day live 
when they will not be judged by the color o their skin but by the content of their character." As a individual dedicated to bringing the world closer together, I support the ideals of Dr. King. Now it's time to live them. Chances are, it's the only present he would have wanted. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are hose ofthe author and not necessarily those if The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
John Lucas  Production  
Dave Tyler  Kira Hutchinson  
Bridgette Farrell  
Sports  Etc.  
Jason Kelly  Bevin Kovalik  
George Dohrmann  
Graphics  
Lab Tech  Brendan Regan  
Eric Ruethling  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of th~ ~ociai~ !''>'!· (\II reproduction rights ar~ ~served. 
The Observer • INSIDE Friday, January 21, 1994 
A LANCE 

Mexican Indian Rebels Quiet Despite Warning ofAttacks 
SAN CRISTOBAL DE lAS CASAS 

Thousands of soldiers were on alert Thursday in three towns around the. southern stat_e of Chiapas where the government predicted that Indian rebels would strike again. 
Hundreds. of soldiers crouched in sandbagged holes. holed up m armored vehicles and guarded highway checkpomts around the towns the defense ministry pre­dicted Wednesday would likely be attacked in 24 hours. By mid-afternoon, there was no sign of an attack by the National Liberation Army, which launched a rebellion Jan. 1 in Chiapas to demand better living and economic conditions for Mexico's Indians. The military's statement that the rebels would attack the villages of Yajalon, Sabanillas and Venustiano Carranza caused many residents to flee those and nearby towns. The rebels have not attacked any towns or fought with the army since President Carlos Salinas announced a cease-fire Jan. 12 to give peace talks a chance. At least 107 people died, mostly in the initial days of the rebel­lion. · Roman Catholic Bishop Samuel Ruiz, an Indian rights advocate helping mediate with the rebels, and Manuel Camacho Solis, the president's envoy, met with communi­ty and government leaders Thursday. But there was no word of any new rebel response to Camacho's calls for peaceful negotiations. Rigoberta Menchu, an Indian activist from neighboring Guatemala who won the Nobel Peace Prize headed to Chiapas on Thursday with a dozen leaders of indigenous people from around the world. "Our main purpose is not to mediate but to show support for our pe?ples and help them to solve their problems," Menchu said at a news conference in Mexico City. Menchu r~fus.ed to say if she supported the Zapatista rebels, sa}'lng It was too early to make such a decision. 
Children found left alone with no food 
CHICAGO 

Behind t~e white lace curtains of a tidy South Side gray­stone, pohce found three children alone with nothing but potato flakes, ketchup and salad dressing in the refriger­ator. Police said the parents had walked out of the apart­ment on Saturday. A clerk at the corner grocery caught the youngsters -ages 4, 5 and 6 -shoplifting dough­nuts Tuesday but didn't report them. It was not until Wednesday that police, acting on a call from a neighbor, found them. Sandra Brandon, 26, and Elvie Holmes, 27, were ar­rested when they returned home later that day. They were charged with child neglect and could get up to a year in prison. Derrell Brandon, 6, Kristen Brandon, 4, a!ld Myeshia Holmes. 5, were placed in state custody, dirty but healthy, Capt. Ben Weyforth said. 
Nixon remembers first innauguration 
YORBA LINDA, Calif. 

Richard Nixon marked the 25th anniversary of his first presidential inauguration on Thurdsay in the company of friends who recounted the good times -and the bad. "Politics is never going to be heaven and sometimes it's hell," the former president told an audience of more than 1,000 gathered at the Richard Nixon Library & Birthplace. "But it was worth the trip." Nixon, 81, whose tumultuous career matched the times in which he served, was lauded by former President Ford and others for his foreign policy acumen and for Richard Nixon the strength that survived 


~::::::::::::::::=============-------------------------_j
INDIANA Weather NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather~ forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 21. 
Friday, Jan. 21 
Accu-Weather*forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 



........................... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
PrfiSIIUTO 

H L 8 &'SJ 1TIJ 0 ~§-!)­
HJGH LOW SHOWERS FWN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
Atlanta 45 60 Denver 46 21 Philadelphia 15 02 Baltimore 16 02 Los Angeles 76 43 Phoenix 76 47 Boston 15 03 Miami 71 66 St. Louis 19 12 Chicago 15 ·12 Minneapolis 03 -18 San Francisco 60 48 Columbus 15 ·03 New Orleans 61 40 Seattle 42 34 Dallas 43 39 New York 15 00 
-------.r-··\'-UNITED STATES \ ,--··~ · 
AP/Brian Sipple 

even the Watergate crisis. "In the dark days of Watergate, he was buffeted and bruised as no leader of ?ur ti!fie" _has been, ~ord said. He recalled visiting an ail­mg Nixon m the hospital in 1974 and fearing that Nixon would not survive. Nixon was sworn into office for his first term on Jan. 20, 1969, after defeating Hubert Humphrey. Nixon used the occasion to warn America about itself and its role .in the world. 
King gets fine for drunken driving charge 
LOS ANGELES Rodney King was fined $1,438 and ordered to perform community service for a drunken driving conviction. Municipal Court Judge Keith Schwartz also placed King on three years' probation Wednesday and told him to attend three days of alcohol-abuse education. King plead­ed no contest after his Aug. 21 arrest. A breath test showed King was driving with a blood-alcohol level above the legal limit of 0.08 percent. The arrest came two years after his videotaped beating by white police officers. The 1991 beating came after officers pulled over the black motorist for a traffic violation. Rioting erupted the next year when four officers were acquitted in state court. Two officers were later convicted on federal civil rights charges. 
Audience left hanging by power sultW 
N YORK Viewers were about to watch the climactic final scene of NBC's "Law & Order" when a power surge blacked out the show. Hundreds of viewers complained. "We had an amazing amount of viewer response at the local sta­tions, the network and newspapers," NBC spokeswoman Rosemary O'Brien said Thursday. 



,...---------------~---­
Friday, January 21, 1994 

Sesquicentennial marks quest for a return to roots 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The year of the sesquicenten­nial has arrived and with it has emerged a quest to return to the College's roots beginning with the Congregation of the Holy Cross' insightful vision for women's education. 
The administration of Saint Mary's constantly faces the challenge of remaining alert to the Holy Cross tradition as it continues to progress through the years, said College Presi­dent William Hickey in a press conference yesterday. 
"We believe that this institu­tion reflects the mission and tradition of the Congregation," he said. '"The Catholic nature of the College has been strongly supported by the Sisters." 
The influence of the Congre­
gation of the Holy Cross re­
mains strong despite the de­
crease in the number of Sisters 
in the faculty, according to 
Congregation President Sister 
Catherine O'Brien. 
"The Congregation was re­
sponsible for having the vision 
and energy for the College," 
O'Brien said. "Despite the 
influx of lay faculty members in 
the 1960's, the continued 
sponsorship by the sisters has 
propelled the traditional 
Have aGPeatBiPihday 
You 18-year old Domerl 
By the way, do you still/ike the same kind of music? 
Boue/rom 
2Ja£a, Y/(a, rf: JJops 

curriculum.." 
The College has inherited many important elements from the Sisters that distinguish it from other institution, accord­ing to Hickey. 
"Even though we are con­stantly changing, we are able to hold onto those elements. They will not be lost even as the number of involved Sisters con­tinues to diminish." 
The quality of education takes two distinct directions at Saint Mary's, he said. 
"Not only are students intel­lectually stimulated, but they are also value oriented. This orientation, not found in many institutions, significantly re­flects the influence of the Sis­ters Hickey said. 
"One rich part of the history of the institution that can be at­tributed to the Sisters is the distinct service orientation of both past and present stu­dents," Hickey said. 
The evolution of the institution has created a nice balance between the number of reli­gious women and lay people, according to O'Brien, and even as the number of those entering into the religious order contin­ues to steadily decline, the strong roots of the Congre­gation of the Holy Cross holds steadfast. 
The Observer !Scott Mendenhall 
The Information Highway, Notre Dame style 
Students look at the various tables of the Center for Social Concerns activities festival last night. 






Dinner honors SMC tradition 
Mass opens year-long celebration 
With music, song, dance and reflection on the history and di­rection of the College, Saint Mary's opened its sesquicen­tennial with a liturgy yesterday afternoon. 

College offices were closed and afternoon classes canceled so that the entire community could share in the celebration. In order to include the students studying abroad in the celebra­tion, students studying on the College's Rome Campus held a concurrent ceremony at 8 p.m. yesterday using the same gospel, readings and music that were part of the liturgy on the Indiana campus. 
More than 500 students, fac­ulty, administrators, staff and members of the Saint Mary's pects of this Sunday's dinner will first be the seating ar­rangement with one faculty member, administration mem­ber or Sister at each table and second, the meal will be served family style in order to recap­ture the spirit of the traditional dinners," Manier said. 
All Sisters of the Holy Cross from the South Bend area were invited to the dinner, as well as College President Hickey and his wife who will sit, as tradi­tion holds, at the head table with noted Seniors. 
Some last minute seating is available for the dinner which will be served at 5:30 p.m. Al­though all Saint Mary's stu­
dents welcome to participate, the Grill Bar will be open on Sunday evening. 
community attended the hour and a half long ceremony. 
The liturgy kicked-off the year-long festivities which in­cludes events that highlight the history and future of the Col­lege, as well as, those that cele­brate the accomplishments of women. 
Students on the Rome campus will hold a sesquicentennial cel­ebration later in the spring in addition to yesterday's mass, according to Rome Program Di­rector Portia Prebys. 
-Jennifer Habrych 

AT THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL ORIENTATION WORKSHOPS 
Sunday. January Z3 2:30 -3:30 pm 
4:00 • 5:00 pili 
5:00 • 6:00 pmTuesday. January 25 6:00 -7:00 pmThursday. January 27 6:00 • 7:00 pm 
. e 


HOURS OF OPERATION . 13 
Starting Tuesday. January Z5 ... 
Tuesday 8r Thursday 7:00 • 10:00 pmSunday Z:OO -5:00 pm 
CALL RECSfORN FOR MORE IHroRMATIOH 

Ul·ll~~ 
<.(. 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
News Writer 
More than 100 Sisters of the Holy Cross will be attending the Traditional Dinner in the Saint Mary's Dining Hall this Sunday as part of the College's Sesqui­centennial celebration, accord­ing to Maureen Manier, direc­tor of Communications and a consultant to the Traditional Dinner planning committee. 
"The theme of the Sesquicen­tennial celebration is 'Honoring Tradition, Pioneering Change,' the Student Traditional Dinner Committee and I hope that Sunday's dinner will honor the traditions started by the Sisters, who were the original faculty and administration of the Coi­lege," Manier said. 
Traditionally, all meals were served in the Le Mans Hall lobby with the most important meal of the week held each Sunday at noon. All Sisters sat with the students at meal times, including the College President who dined with different se­niors at every meal, Manier said. 

Because of the College's small student body, these meals were a valuable part of the Saint Mary's culture as Sisters and students developed close-knit relationships with each other, while at the same time learning about the art of conversation and gracious manners which were so heavily instilled in 
young women during this era, according to Manier. "The two most significant as-


L Computer Ima8in8 ~ January 28 (f) 29 Call for Appointment '). 234-6767~ 
~ 

full &rvice ~alon Iiair • ~kin • Nails 
1357 N. Ironwood 
AVEDA~

Corner of Edison 

TilE AI\T AND S< :lEN< 'E l lF l'lii\E H.OWEI( 1\ND I'Lt\NT ESSEN\ :ES 
Hair Care • Skin Care • Colour C'"""'tirs

(f) Ironwood 


page 4 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 21, 1994 something back to Saint Mary's," Lupo said. "This is my 
form of expression, my creativ­continued from page 1 ity." 





SMC Bobbit jury begins deliberations 
Now that the quilt is complete, By ANNE GEARAN abuse. Ebert said Bobbitt had rapedLupo revealed that the quilt Lupo is planning to return to Associated Press Judge Herman A. Whisenant his wife during their marriage,has its imperfections, but she is her regular life. 
Jr. told the seven women and but that, "Two wrongs don'tpleased with the impressed and "This is by far the biggest thing five men that they also could
MANASSAS make a right."
excited reception the quilt re­I have ever done so I am not consider a lesser charge of un­"Sometimes I'm sure she
A jury began trying to decide
ceived. sure where my quilting will go lawful wounding, which has a
Thursday whether Lorena didn't want to have sex. And"Nothing is perfect and it from here," Lupo said. "I am Bobbitt cut off her husband's maximum penalty of five years she had the right to refuse him.
shouldn't be," Lupo said. just excited to return to my in prison. 
penis in "calculated and mali­But it wasn't every day and it"I think I was predestined to family and teaching for at least cious" revenge or because she wasn't every week ... that John use this God given talent to give another five months." 
Mrs. Bobbitt, 24, faced up to
was emotionally battered by his Bobbitt raped her," he said. 
sexual abuse. 20 years in prison and deporta­"You can't take the law ina out pioneer women, a tra i­tion to her native South Amer­
Qui ting tional quilting art exhibit and a The prosecutor conceded Mrs. your own hands," he said. 
ica if convicted of maliciously 
modern quilt art exhibit. In ad­Bobbitt was raped during her Mrs. Bobbitt contended that 
four-year marriage, but that wounding Bobbitt. years of physical and sexual
continued from page 1 dition, members of the Saint 
Mary's community have de­she had plenty of options short In closing arguments, defense abuse drove her into mental ill­accomplishments," Feigl said. signed patches to capture the of attacking her husband. attorney Blair Howard main­ness and an "irresistible im­
tained that John Bobbitt raped pulse" to harm Bobbitt. SheSesquicentennial events fo­history and tradition in its own The jury deliberated less than 
cusing on quilting include quilt. 3"0 minutes before breaking for his wife in the early hours of said she acted after Bobbitt re­
June 23, shortly before she sev­
"Qtiilters," a student musical the day. The panel was sched­turned home from a night of 
ered his penis. 

uled to resume deliberations drinking and raped her. Her furniture items are included in Friday. "I can think of no greater lawyers are trying to prove that the cost of rent. provocation than the act of she's innocent because of tem­
Houses 
The cost of living at Doran's rape," he said. "To rape a porary insanity. 
The jury, which heard seven 
Saint Louis house, which he woman is not only a violation of 
days of testimony. was asked to Prosecutor Mary Grace
continued from page 1 
shares with three roommates, the body.... It is a direct attack O'Brien countered that Mrs.
decide whether Mrs. Bobbitt tiona! cost of utilities which is also about $190 per person acted in willful, malicious anger on the emotional structure that Bobbitt suffered violence in her 
each month, not including the holds a woman together." marriage but there was no
turn out to be an additional when she mutilated her hus­
utility costs which run about Prince William County Com­"reign of terror," as her
$30-40 each, he said. Most band, or whether she snapped
$25 each, he said. monwealth's Attorney Paul B. lawyers characterized it. 
under the pressure of years of 

Homeless quake victims search for refuge from cold 
BYDARATOM city's parks. Many more slept in Housing and Urban De­be demolished .... 
a sheet stretched between two Associated Press county parks as the overnight velopment Secretary Henry Cisneros said 11 disaster-aid cars in a Chatsworth park. "Or temperature dipped into the Cisneros said. 
application centers would be maybe we could find real shel­
LOS ANGELES low 40s. "We're finding more housing open by today. ter."A chilly night and rain on the was damaged than we 
Late Wednesday, police closed way lent urgency today to ef­Thousands of commuters rose · thought," Cisneros told ABC-TV Rain was expected by Satur­the main street between Holly­forts to find shelter for the tens hours before dawn to get an today from the San Fernando day night, raising the risk of wood and Burbank's movie andof thousands of people driven early jump on their morning Valley. 
mudslides in neighborhoods TV studios after noticing possi­from their homes by the earth­drive. They succeeded in a way: shaken by the quake and ble cracks in a bridge along the 
quake. they were the first to be stuck "When you fly over it you stripped of ground cover by au­route."We need to get those people in traffic. really can't see the problem. tumn's firestorms. 
Ted Varnadoe, a lighting tech­
out. It's unhealthy out there," Getting people out of en­But then you get down on the 
"Hopefully by then, we will nician on the "Columbo" set insaid Recreation and Parks De­campments and makeshift road or in front of the house find some plastic or something Universal City, was among
partment spokesman Jackie quarters in their own front and you see that its fallen off its for a little more protection from those turned away at dawn asTatum. She said about 20,000 yards and into more permanent foundation and it is completely the rain," said Jose Murillo, 
he commuted from Mission
people were c;amping in the shelter was a top priority today, unsafe and is going to have to one of 18 people huddled under Hills to the north. 

I 
I 
' 
I 
I 
f 
~ 
t 
I' 
I 
I 


St. Edward's Hall 
______P_l_aY-_er_s______ 
~~~61£7: 
B R I G H T 0 
B E A  c H  
M  E M 0 1-y 11eit b ; ,.,,  I  R s  
.,  .,  .,  .,  .,  .,  .,  

THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY JANUARY 20, 21, 22 

8:00PM 

WASHINGTON HALL 
Tickets Available at the LaFortune Box Offi~e 
$4.00 

Friday, January 21, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Quiet draws students to Faculty Senate exaJ)lines salaries 
BY MAUREEN BRODERICK other faculty members. The discussed. Sheehan said he
non-traditional housing NewsWrjrer questionaire has had positive would look into the progress of 
Faculty salary, the rights of response, with fifty percent of the group's petition. 
By LIZ FORAN 
News Writer 
While many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students prefer to live in apartment complexes where students are a majority, many also prefer the more se­date atmosphere of a non-tra­ditional apartment. 
"It's a more quiet atmo­sphere," said senior Monique Mikel. "You have a lot more privacy and you get a lot more done." 
Apartment ·complexes such as Hickory Village, The Pointe and Remington Court are home to many, but not too many, stu­dents. 
Hickory Village, a large apart­ment close to campus, has quite a few students, but they are spread out over 912 units in 24 buildings. The complex offers one and two bedroom apartments starting at $285 and $345, respectively. 
In addition, free aerobics, 24­hour maintenance, ample park­ing and a club house are availi­ble to renters, according to complex manager John McCloud. 
The complex does not have security, he said. 
Students claim that the large number of families living around them gives the envi­ronment a more community feeling and residents and man­agement get along well, accord­ing to McCloud, aside from an occasional incident or two. 
LOOKOUT! 
Terrible Tina is 21! 

From Mom, K-Bean &}ENNIFART! 

"We had one party over Florida State weekend, but that's one incident out of 912 units. Overall, students are not a problem," he said. 
The Pointe is a complex near campus that houses a few stu­dents. mostly Notre Dame grad­uate students. It offers one bed­room apartments from $520 to $580 and two bedroom from $630 to $760. 
The Pointe also offers an in­tercom system for security rea­sons and 24 hour maintenance. Remington Court offers nine month leases to students at their nearby complex. 
Security includes an alarm system on front and sliding glass doors that is hooked up to the main office, according to Stacey Kemble, who is in charge of leases. 
A police officer lives on the premises and patrols fre­quently, she added. In addition, Remington offers a pool, Jacuzzi, club house and rooms include a washer, dryer and a microwave. 
Only about ten students live at Remington and most are grad­uate students, Kemble said, "so its pretty quiet." As far as ex­cessive noise or loud parties, she said "most of them have either done it or outgrown it, so we don't have any problems with them." 
the University's gay and lesbian community, and the indepen­dence of Notre Dame as a: Catholic university were the issues addressed at last night's Faculty Senate meeting. 
A salary questionaire has been issued to faculty members by the Academic Council, according to Richard Sheehan, President of the Faculty Senate. Through this survey, the coun­cil hopes to evaluate salary fairness and question whether the faculty feels salary earnings should be made available to the faculty responding, he said. 
Turning to other business, a concern was voiced on behalf of the rights of GLND/SMC, the unrecognized gay and lesbian group of St. Mary's and Notre Dame. 
It was brought to the attention of the Senate that the group has been denied official recog­nition by the university twice in the past ten years. 
Another application was sub­mitted last year in order to gain status as an organization and discontent was expressed because the issue has yet to be 
Provost Timothy O'Meara also addressed the senate meeting. Various members of the Senate expressed concern to O'Meara regarding outside involvement in Notre Dame's decision on faculty appointment. 
Several senators believe Notre Dame should act more indepen­dently as a Catholic university and not bring faculty decisions directly to high officials in the Catholic Church. 
O'Meara stated that the con­cerns of the Senate will be given consideration. 



British plead for N. Ireland peace 
BY SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Britain's chief official in Northern Ireland pleaded for Irish Republican Army sup­porters on Thursday to "get off their treadmill of violence and enter the community of democ­rats." 
Sir Patrick Mayhew, secretary of state for Northern Ireland, told a London audience the Dec. 15 Anglo-Irish peace dec­laration should have made it clear to the IRA its 23-year campaign against British rule was futile and unnecessary. 
Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds, meanwhile, said in Dublin that the declaration he and British Prime Minister John Major endorsed undercut the IRA's rationale for killing. 
Their speeches were the most detailed signal-sending effort yet to Sinn Fein, the legal politi­cal ally of the outlawed IRA, since the declaration was an­nounced. Sinn Fein has been demanding "clarification" of what the declaration offered in exchange for an end to IRA vio­lence. 
As Mayhew and Reynolds spoke, Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams reiterated the his par­ty's stance in a speech to party activists in Catholic west Belfast. He said the British were still "refusing clarifica­tion." 
He made a similar appeal ear­lier in the day in the first radio interview legally allowed in Ireland with the pro-IRA party in 22 years. Ireland last week ended its ban on broadcast in­terviews with Sinn Fein, the IRA and other extremists in the conflict. 
On Thursday, IRA members 
RECRUITING DATES: March 1, 2 and 3 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
ATTENTION: ALL WING LOVERS 
Original style Buffalo Wings have arrived! 
Come, join us for lunch (or anytime) at our newest location riear Service Merchandise. 
Domestic Specials 

Dare to take on our 
FEAST FOR FOUR 

SPECIAL 
I I I 
:Buy 1 o wings: :Get 1o Free!: 
...!'2: 2!l5!:.2Q.t,. 
I  I  
I  I  
I  .  h  I  I  

L --.J 
!Big-Screen TV • Darts • Video Garnes! University Center 6502 N. Grape Rd. Phone 273-0088 
lobbed a makeshift bomb at passing British soldiers. It ex­ploded, but injured no one seri­ously. The IRA has made clear that it expects to continue its vi­olent campaign to end British rule in Northern Ireland while deciding its response to the De­cember declaration. 
Still, Ireland and Britain gov­ernments hope to persuade IRA strategists that their future lies in non-violent negotiation. 
Britain and the Irish republic are trying to delicately balance principles, offering "self-de­termination" to the Irish people while re.assuring Northern Ire­land's Protestant majodty they can remain British. 
Mayhew reiterated that the Major-Reynolds declaration of­fered Sinn Fein a place at round-table talks, but only after IRA commanders "renounce violence for good." 
London  $395*  
Paris  $389*  
Madrid  $389*  
Munich  $515*  
Milan  $585*  

•Airfares are roundtrip from Chicago. Restrictions apply, taxes are not included and fares are subject to change. Call for other worldwide destinations. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951·0585 

Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 
~ OUeago HairCMUing Co.w 
INDIAN RIDGE PL\ZA Next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
277-7946 
HOURS: Daily 9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6 Sun. 11-5 
~-----------­

--~--------~­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 21, t994 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS IS SPONSORED BY RECSPORTS PROCEEDS WILL BE DONATED TO THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 

REcREATIONAL SPORTS 

UNIVERSITY OF NOI'RE DAME 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 

THIS BASKETBALL GAME WILL FEATURE ONE OF OUR VERY OWN LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAM AGAINST A TEAM OF SPECIAL OLYMPIANS. A TEAM FROM THE LNO TEAM OF BAJ)JN • J)JLLON ·HOLY CROSS WILL COMPETE IN THIS EXCITING MATCH-UP. THE GAME IS SCHEDULED FOR 8:00PM. 
DON'T MISS IT ! 






C{))JFIEN §JKATJE 
• 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
' 
~~-__jg 

COME TO LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS ON FRIDAY, 
ARY 21, AND TAKE PART IN THE (()IIP'I&f:! EVENT WHICH IS SCHEDULED FROM UID:ii)IJ) iP'M • MITI!HlHIG!PJ'II'. 
NO ADVANCE SIGN-UPS ARE NEEDED. 
THE COST OF SKATE RENTALS IS $1.00 AND ALL RENTAL FEES WILL BE DONATED 


Friday, January 21, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Fiske named as Special Counsel 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton and his wife should be questioned under oath as part of a "thorough and impartial investigation" of their Arkansas land deals, Robert B. Fiske Jr. said Thursday as he was named special counsel to examine the case. 
The president said he would cooperate, suggesting he would be willing to undergo question­ing by Fiske. 
"Whatever he wants to do ... I didn't do anything wrong," Clinton said of Fiske's plans during an appearance by the president on CNN's "Larry King Live." 
Asked earlier about Fiske's plan to seek the Clintons' state­ments under oath, White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said, "He hasn't done it yet. We'll deal with that when it comes." 
Fiske, a former Republican 
U.S. attorney, said he was pre­pared to "go flat out" in the in­vestigation. "It's important for the country to get this done and get it done as quickly and as thoroughly and as fairly as pos­sible," Fiske said. 
Senate Republican leader Bob Dole, who had asked for such an appointment, said it should not stop congressional commit­tees from their own investiga­tions. But he pulled back from earlier calls for establishment of a special investigating panel. Fiske said he planned to speak directly to the president and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, as part of his effort. 
"I would certainly expect that before this investigation is over that I would question both the president and the first lady and that it would be under oath," Fiske said. 
Fiske comes aboard amid a pending Justice Department in­v~stigation ~;>f the land deals that touches on Clinton. As part of the probe, Arkansas Gov. Jim Guy Tucker received a federal grand jury subpoena requesting he turn over business records and oth.er materials relating to Whitewater Development Corp. -the company that the Clintons co-owned. Tucker released the subpoena. 
To establish his independence, Fiske said he would not use any of the Justice Department pros­ecutors now investigating the failed Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan and its links to the Clintons' investment in Whitewater Development Corp. 
"In order to conduct a truly independent investigation, I should have people working for me who are not also reporting to the attorney general," Fiske told a news conference. 
The selection of Fiske, now a Wall Street lawyer. fits sugges­tions that the special counsel be a veteran attorney and, to demonstrate independence, a Republican. However, while Fiske was appointed by Repub­lican President Ford to be U.S. attorney for the Southern Dis­trict of New York in Manhattan, he served mainly under Demo­cratic President Carter, from 1976 to 1980. 
As a private attorney, Fiske defended the manufacturer of the nuclear reactor at Three Mile Island in a $4 billion dam­age suit and recently repre­sented key defendants in the Bank of Credit and Commerce International fraud case. 
Republican leader Dole told reporters he doesn't know Fiske, but "people who know him think he is extremely well­qualified, is independent." 
On the other hand, Dole said, "Some of the conservative Re­publicans have not been happy with him." They were angered by his involvement in the American Bar Association's screening of potential judges. 
Fiske's Republican credentials won't end a GOP push for a congressional investigation. 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE PRESENTS THE 
5th ANNUAL 

THE BEST IN FILM AND VIDEO FROM THE 

COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
FILM/VIDEO PRODUCTION PROGRAM 


~~~1A \\~~~~ ~till ror~~lLA H.mw~~~~ ~ll A~~r rn~ r~r~~~m~ ~~ll Cl~A~H~ ~(~~ t~LA ~tWm~t ~~H~~l A~~~W!I~~ ~ruMr M(~lAI ~~~ R~ll WRUAM ~~~t ~ITr~\ ~~~r~ AlNffit ~Afu~A~ LaW ID1~~~~~I ~~~ ~U~\\m mlW~~~\ll MIUlc1C~~~L~~ ~~lli~~AA~t-~~~~rm1ur~~11 
PLlJS 1\ll.A:NY l\IIORE. 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY JAN. 21 & 22 
7:30 AND 9:45 PM SNITE M.USEUM OF ART 
$2 ADMISSION 

Clinton reflects on first year in White House 
BYTOMRAUM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Clinton on Thursday 
night lament­ed the tough scrutiny of presidential nominees and, reflecting on his first year in office, said it had been tough but 

rewarding. Bill 
Marking that Clinton anniversary 
with an appearance on CNN's "Larry King Live," Clinton said he was working to overcome 
frustrations of the presidency and dealt with subjects with subjects ranging from the death of his mother to the qualities of his attorney general, Janet Reno. He said she had come onto the Washington scene "hot as a firecracker." 
He pledged to work with Robert Fiske, the special coun­sel appointed earlier in the day to investigate his financial deal­ings while governor of Arkansas. 
"Whatever he wants to do," Clinton said. "I just want to do my job. I don't want to be dis­
nomination process. "These standards are always being raised and heightened," he said. 
The president made an an­niversary appearance two days after Inman, who would have succeeded Les Aspin in the Cabinet, pulled out unexpected­ly and leveled a blast at his critics. 
"The process takes too long now," Clinton said. "I think maybe its time to have a bipar­tisan look at this appointments process ... I think it's exces­sive." 
Clinton groused that political criticism such as that being lev­eled in the Whitewater affair "apparently is part of the price of being in public life in the late 20th century in the United States." 
"I can deal with it. The only thing that really steams me is what it does to my wife, my daughter, my family," he said. King noted that the last time Clinton had appeared on his show was the same night that White House lawyer Vincent Foster committed suicide, ex­actly six months ago. 
Clinton said that he knows no more now about what led to the suicide than he did earlier. Foster "left a note, he was pro­foundly depressed ... It broke 

--·-----­
page 8 

The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 21, 1994 
China agrees to labor inspections Threat of violence cancels 
By KATHY WILHELM 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
China has agreed to let U.S. 
officials check five prison facto­
ries for evidence that they pro­
duce goods for illegal export to 
the United States, U.S. Treasury 
Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said 
Thursday. 
The agreement comes at a time when the annual political battle is heating up over whether Washington should raise tariffs on Chinese goods to punish Beijing for its poor human rights record. 

China agreed to such visits in 1992 and allowed three, but stonewalled more U.S. applica­tions for months while demand­ing that Washington make a public statement clearing places already visited. 
Bentsen announced the new agreement, a verbal one, in a speech to economists and scholars at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. 
"China has agreed to permit inspections of five prisons alleged to be producing goods 
for export. I trust that this pat­
tern of cooperation will contin­
ue," Bentsen said. 
The American ambassador to 

Beijing, Stapleton Roy. told 
reporters that U.S. customs 
agents inspected documents 
Thursday at a prison-run tea 
farm in southern China to 
determine if it was exporting to 
the United States. 
There has been acrimonious debate over whether the use of "slave labor" has been under­writing cheap Chinese exports. Ten million people are impris­oned in China, and many work in prison factories making items such as rubber boots, hand tools, diesel engines and clothing, according to Laogai Research Foundation, a human rights group based in Milpitas, Calif., that monitors Chinese prison labor. 
Bentsen, halfway into a four­day China visit, said he urged Chinese leaders to open their markets, allow more access for foreign banks, enforce copy­rights and remove barriers to currency transactions. 
"Those barriers, we believe, stand in the way of our exports and investments in China," he said in the academy speech. Foreign banks currently are barred from doing business in Chinese currency, and foreign insurance companies and bro­kerages also are tightly restrict­ed. 
Bentsen met later with China's president and Communist Party chief, Jiang Zemin. He handed Jiang a letter from President Clinton, which he said "empha­sizes that our interests lie in the development of a strong, stable and prosperous China." Jiang said his November meet­ing with Clinton in Seattle "cre­ated a new start for the devel­opment of bilateral relations," the official Xinhua News Agency reported. 
"Both China and the United 

, States should seize the opportu­nity, create more contacts and exchanges, build up mutual trust and make joint efforts to push Chinese-U.S. relations gradually on to the normal track of development," Xinhua quoted Jiang as saying. 
But China does not appear ready to meet U.S. concerns on human rights. 


Gertnans crack down on fascists 
By TERRENCE PETrY 
Associated Press 
BONN 
Police seized piles of propa­ganda and mail Thursday in pre-dawn raids on neo-Nazi hangouts across the country. 
The raids, intended to gather evidence that can be used to ban the neo-Nazi group Direct Action-Central Germany, were ordered by Federal Interior Minister Manfred Kanther. More than 7,000 neo-Nazi pam­phlets were confiscated at one location. 
Scores of right-wing extremist groups emerged following Germany's reunification in 1990, and authorities say the groups appear to be trying to form a united front. At least 30 people have died in neo-Nazi violence in the past three years, including many immigrants. 

Hundreds of police officers entered the homes of Direct Action members in Berlin, Brandenburg, Mecklenburg­West Pomerania in eastern Germany and Lower Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia in western Germany, Kanther said. 
Police carried out 43 raids alone in Brandenburg, where the group is strongest. Direct Action has about 100 members and is an offshoot of the Nationalistic Front, a neo­Nazi organization banned in 
··~------------~------------------------------. 

November 1992. 
Kanther said the raids show Germany "is firmly resolved to use all legal measures to com­bat extremism." 
Meanwhile, two skinheads and a bar owner went on trial for murder Thursday for beat­ing a man and setting him on fire on Nov. 13, 1992. 
Andreas Wember and Michael Senf allegedly attacked the vic­tim, identified only as Karl­Hans R., after bar owner Marian Glensk yelled "maybe he's a Jew!" prosecutors said. 
soccer on Hitler's birthday 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT 
Criticism is being leveled at 
the decision to call off a soccer 
match between England and 
Germany because of fears that 
right-wing hooligans would stir 
up trouble to mark Hitler's 
birthday. 
Representatives of the two countries' national soccer fed­erations and Hamburg city offi­cials announced Wednesday that the long-planned April 20 exhibition game would not take place. 
The match was called off be­cause Hamburg officials feared that German and English right­wing rowdies were plotting to celebrate Hitler's 105th birth­day with violence at the Ham­burg stadium. 
Ignatz Bubis, the head of Germany's Jewish community, said Thursday it was unwise in the first place to choose a game date that is "historically bur­dened." 
But Bubis said the state was "falling on its knees" to radical rightists by canceling the game. 
While there was support for 
the move, there were com­
plaints that authorities had 
been pressured by the threats 
from the right. 
"We can't fight them by ca­
pitulating to them," said Hans 
Hansen, president of the Al­
liance of German Sports Feder­
ations. 
German Soccer Federation chief Egidius Braun said his country's image -already tar­nished by neo-Nazi violence ­could be further hurt with the appearance that officials weren't standing up to soccer hooligans. 
"Germany could lose its repu­tation as a dependable host for international events," Braun said. 
National team coach Berti Vogts voiced a similar senti­ment. 
"If we can't guarantee the se­curity of the German national team and its foreign guests, one should not be surprised that Germany has a bad image in other countries," Vogts said. But some politicians backed the cancellation. 


'
.







IUDIOIS. 
JPW SeatingReservations 
(For the Dinner and Brunch) 
Jan.24,25,2& 4-9pm Rm. 112 CCE 
-

You MUST BE REGISTERED (WITH PAYMENT) TO RESERVE SEATING! 
Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includes team sports, free aerobics dasses, 
and mud• more. 

Efficiencies from $270 1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bcdrooms from $345 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Aelivities with Free A'.lrobics 
Slop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be, 
Check mail for information letter. 
Questions? Call JPW Office 631-6028 
±CLEVELAND
+I 
'!VIY /
DOUGLAS 
• ... 
c..
~H~O~
'IILLAGE 
~ 
0 
~~3


1-·~
JEFFERSON 
272-lSSV 

rHlCKORij 
VILLAGEI 
Mon.-Fri. 9--6, SClt. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
Friday, January 21, 1994 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Citadel opens doors Nunn refuses top defense job 
By RON FOURNIER citing attacks on his character adding, ''I'm not going to com­Associated Press and reputation. Inman wrote to ment on a personnel matter." 
to -wotnan student 
Clinton in a letter dated Jan. 8 Nunn, a conservative Demo­
WASHINGTON that he did not want his nomi­crat from Georgia who led the BY BRUCE SMITH Faulkner walked alone The Clinton nation to proceed. defeat of Clinton's attempt to Associated Press through 25-degree tempera­administration White House Chief of Staff lift the ban on homosexuals in 
CHARLESTON tures and a horde of reporters approached Mack McLarty subsequently the military, was mentioned as 
Shannon Faulkner walked to Duckett Hall for her 8 a.m. Sen. Sam spoke to Nunn about the va­a contender for Pentagon chief into a biology class at The biology class, a 75-minute lec­Nunn about cancy this week, seeking advice a year ago before the newly Citadel on Thursday and made ture on plant reproduction. the defense on potential nominees from the elected Clinton turned to Les history. She became the first Cadets watched from the court­secretary job, senator considered one of Con­Aspin, who resigned as defense woman in the school's 151-year yard and the windows of but the gress' top military experts, the secretary last month under history to take a class with the Stevens Barracks across the Georgia White House official said. pressure. corps of cadets. street, yelling as she passed by. Democrat said The New York Times reported Aspin, who headed the House 
"It wasn't like walking into "It's real upsetting for a lot of he was not in today's editions that Nunn, Armed Services Committee at any other class, when there are the guys. But they have enough interested in who has been at odds with the time of his appointment, 30 guys in the class and you're humor, enough spunk, to see it the Pentagon Clinton on defense issues, was originally had planned to leave the only woman," said through," said John Johnson, a post, White House officials said offered the job last week and today but has told the White Faulkner, who also celebrated junior cadet. today. turned the administration down House he will remain in office her 19th birthday Thursday. "It's difficult. It's going to be a The Senate Armed Services in recent days. as long as he is needed. That 
"My first day of class went change. But what happens is Committee chairman discussed Vice President AI Gore de­could be several weeks. 
well," she said. "The cadets what happens," senior Jay Hart the job with top administration clined to comment on the news­Officials indicated Wednesday have spoken to me. I don't said. Hart said he came to The officials last week, said the offi­paper's report, which cited the naming of a new nominee think I'll be having any prob­Citadel for a single-sex educa­cials, who spoke on condition of unidentified administration offi­was not imminent. lems." tion. anonymity. cials as its source. As the White House considers 
Well, she did have some. President Clinton's choice to "We're moving expeditiously an Aspin successor, many in 
She got a $10 ticket for park­Several women shouted "Go replace Defense Secretary Les and deliberately to fill that the Pentagon were favoring ing in the faculty lot. Faulkner Shannon" as Faulkner arrived. Aspin -retired Adm. Bobby position," he said in an inter­Deputy Defense Secretary said she thought school officials Cynthia Fort, a high school stu­Inman -withdrew Tuesday, view on CBS this morning, William Perry for the top job. told her she could park there. dent, said she came just to 
show her support. Faulkner, who had all gender "She's doing what is right. I references removed from her think she's very brave," Fort 
Cold responsible for 1 00 deaths high school transcript, first was said. accepted by the school, then Faulkner said that after class By MICHAEL BASS She never made it. Kentucky interstates and high­rejected when Citadel officials one cadet "asked me how Associated Press From the car, 81-year-old ways were open Thursday for found out she is a woman. So things were going and he want­The temperature was 20 be­Erny Oberg watched in horror the first time since record she sued the state-supported ed to let me know that not low zero in northern Wisconsin; as his wife trudged uphill into snowfall shut down the roads military college last year, say­everyone here was against the gusts of bitter wind made it the wind and collapsed. on Monday.ing its all-male policy was me." feel like 60 below. Toni and "He tried to get his walker 
unconstitutional. Erny Oberg were five miles from the back seat. But it slid Many have died in accidents A federal judge ruled she Faulkner, who plans to major from home when their car hit from his reach so he couldn't on ice-slick roads. Some have could attend day classes, al­in education, had an education 
an icy rut and slid into a ditch. get it," said the couple's son-in­suffered heart attacks while 
though not as a cadet, while class and a biology lab later in There was no question who law, Steve Laakso. shoveling snow. A few have her lawsuit proceeded. The the day, then planned a private would go for help. Toni Oberg been killed by their efforts to Citadel went to the Supreme birthday celebration with her was 74 and had undergone "I don't know why she didn't keep warm, such as a North Court to try to keep her out, but family and her attorneys. heart bypass surgery, but her elect to wait {in the car}," Carolina man who died in a fire Chief Justice William Rehnquist She also took time to buy a 
husband was older and frailer Laakso said. "She had a deter­that began when he tried to 
on Tuesday said she could Citadel T -shirt at the school gift and needed a walker. mination. If something needed thaw his water pipes with a attend classes. shop. to be done, she would do it. She blowtorch. 
The Citadel and Virginia State Law Enforcement Mrs. Oberg borrowed her hus­had done things like that a mil­The victims include a Min­Military Institute are the Division officers trailed band's leather mittens, lion times. She believed she nesota woman who fell as she nation's only state-supported, Faulkner through the day. Au­wrapped her coat and scarf would be looked after." stepped outside to feed birds; a all-male military colleges. thorities said last week they tightly around her, and set out Mrs. Oberg died Tuesday -Pittsburgh woman who col­VMI's admissions policy is also were investigating unspecified for help. Her destination: their one of 130 deaths blamed so lapsed while retrieving mail; being challenged in federal threats against her and her son-in-law's home, 500 yards far on the record cold weather and a New York motorist, court. family. away. that has battered much of the caught in a snowstorm, who 
nation since late last week. The knocked at a house for help 



toll has been rising daily, even and was turned away. as temperatures edged above With temperatures in some
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 IPS 
zero and, in some cases, places 30 and 40 degrees below reached double digits for the zero, experts say, even the first time in a week. slightest exposure can be fatal. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
an Army officer. You'll also have attending Army ROTC Camp Chal­the self-confidence and discipline lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and course in leadership training. beyond. 
ARMY ROTC 
m SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAlE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 


page 10 

Japanese on brink of reforms 
BY PETER lANDERS Associated Press 
TOKYO 
After more than five years of 
debate over cleaning up 
Japanese politics, it all comes 
down to one vote Friday in 
Parliament that is too close to 
call. 
If Prime Minister Morihiro 
Hosokawa wins, the corrup­
tion-plagued political system 
will undergo its greatest trans­
formation in 45 years. If he 
loses, it's back to square one 
on reform -and Hosokawa 
could be out of a job. 
The vote, in Parliament's 
upper house, is over 
Hosokawa's package of politi­
cal reform bills, which would 
ban corporate contributions to 
individual politicians and 
change the system for electing 
the lower house of Parliament. 
The bills are designed to end 
repeated bribery and influ­
ence-peddling scandals that 
have led to the demise of sever­
al Japanese governments dur­
ing the 38-year reign of the 
Liberal Democratic Party. The 
bills passed the lower house in 
November and cleared their 
next-to-last hurdle in an upper 
house committee Thursday. 
But the outcome of the final 
vote, scheduled for Friday 
afternoon, was far from cer­
tain. Several Socialists, the 
largest party in Hosokawa's 
ruling coalition, have said they 
will vote against the bills, and 
about a dozen other legislators 
have not announced their deci­
sion. 
The coalition has 131 seats in the 252-seat upper house, just five more than a majority. so it will need support from legisla­tors in the main opposition Liberal Democrats. One LOP legislator, Tomoichi Hoshino, voted for the bills in the com­mittee Thursday and said he planned to quit his party. 
Hosokawa, who has hinted that he will either resign or call new elections if he fails to pass the package, warned against overconfidence in the show­down vote. 
"I fear that we will be in dan­ger unless we fight resolutely to the very end as if it were truly a struggle to the death," he told a meeting of coalition legislators Thursday. 
Hosokawa's most important reform would overturn the sys­tem under which each district elects several legislators to Parliament's more powerful lower house. 


NORTH PADRE/MUSTANG ISLAND 
1----F•L•O•R•I•D•A----1 
DA YTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH ORLANDO/WALT DISNEY WORLD 
..._--C•O•L•O•R•A•D•O ----1 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
1-----N•E•V•A•D•A-----i 
LAS VEGAS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CALL TOLL FREE FOR FULL DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 

1•BOG •SUNCHASE 

The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 21, 1994 





Official: UN needs tougher Bosnia stance 
By MAUD S. BEELMAN 
Associated Press Wrjrcr 
SARAJEVO 
The United Nations has large­ly failed in its relief effort in war-torn Bosnia and should either get tough by bringing in more troops or get out, a senior aid official said Thursday. 
"How much of the population are we keeping alive if we are only bringing 20 percent of the minimum" amount of food needed each month per person, said Larry Hollingworth, head of mission for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees in Zenica in central Bosnia. 
Apparently frustrated by de­lays and harassment of relief convoys by the warring parties in Bosnia, Hollingworth sug­gested the United Nations should either "get more troops and get tough one day or get out." 
He was the latest U.N. official on the front lines to criticize 
U.N. strategy. 

The outgoing head of U.N. troops in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Lt. Gen. Francis Briquemont, recently faulted the Security Council for being too lofty in its goals and too sparing in send­ing troops. He said he needed at least 10,000 more troops to carry out U.N. resolutions. 

In Brussels, Belgium, Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic called on NATO to follow through on its threats to launch air strikes against Bosnian Serbs and said the alliance did not need U.N. approval to do so. 
After meeting Thursday with NATO officials, Izetbegovic, the leader of Bosnia's Muslims, said he believed the best way to end the war was "the combination of negotiations and some mili­tary action against Serbian positions." 
At a summit last week, Presi­dent Ointon and the leaders of the 15 other North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries warned the Serbs of a new de­termination to order air strikes if needed to relieve embattled Muslim enclaves in Bosnia. 
However, NATO officials say 
U.N. Secretary General Boutros-Ghali must authorize the first strike. 
A senior aide to Boutros-Ghali in New York, Alvaro DeSoto, said the secretary-general would not oppose ordering such a strike "if the need arises." 
® 

U.N. aid officials have repeat­edly accused all three warring factions -Serbs, Croats and Muslims-of blocking aid con­voys for an estimated 2.7 mil­lion Bosnians dependent on outside help to survive this win­ter. 
In Sarajevo, a U.N. spokesman said the airlift to that city, sus­pended for a day after shots were fired at an American relief plane, would resume Friday. Relief flights were sus­pended "to give thinking time and to protest to all the par­ties," said Kris Janowksi, Sarajevo spokesman for the 
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. 
But overall, Hollingworth told reporters the U.N. effort to get a minimum 42 pounds of food per person a month to civilians "is not proving itself to be suc­cessful." 
However. Hollingworth warned "there would be a lot of suffering" if U.N. peacekeepers indeed left the war-torn repub­lic. 
Another round of peace talks failed in Geneva on Wednesday, raising fears of a new round of slaughter and starvation in a 
war that has killed more than 
200,000 people since it erupted 
in April1992. 
Bosnian Serbs rebelled against the decision by Muslims and Croats to secede from Serb-dominated Yugoslavia, and now hold about 70 percent of Bosnia. 
The Muslim-led government is refusing Serb and Croat offers of one-third of the country in the current peace deal. 
In neighboring Croatia, oppo­sition parties expressed skepti­cism Thursday that a Croatian­Serbian agreement toward nor­malizing relations would lessen tensions in Bosnia. 
Croatian President Franjo Tudjman and Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic signed an agreement Wednesday to im­prove relations as a step toward ending their cold war over the one-third of Croatian land captured by Serbs in 1991. 
Tudjman called the deal a diplomatic victory. while his po­litical opponents criticized it for not guaranteeing the return of the Serb-held territories. 
The deal puts pressure on the Muslims to sign the peace deal. 

DOMINOS PIZZA 
271-0300 





LARGE PIZZA 

PLUS TAX 
STORE HOURS SUN-TH 4:30-1 am FRI-SAT 4:30-2am 

CHEESE PIZZA TOPPINGS $1 EACH­VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY EXPIRES 5-13-94 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE 
PRODUCT SERVICE GUARANTEE: 
IF FOR ANY REASON YOU ARE UNSATISFIED WITH OUR PRODUCT OR SERVICE, PLEASE CONTACT THE STORff MANAGER IMMEDIATELY ­AND WE'LL FIX IT. 
• # •• I . I. f .. " • _· • .a....:_~. • • .. . .. . ; .l . l " i :
.hi..~ . 

L_________ 
-~--·-·~­

Ifyou are interested in learning how to confront oppression, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is 
offering ftudents, s!affant/ professo_rs th_e 
opportun•ty to part•c•pate •n th•s d•vers•ty smsitivi#y workshop: 

THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BYTHE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
CONTACT: MICKEY FRANCO • 631-4355 DEMETRIUS MARLOW • 631-4619 ADELE LANAN • 631-7308 
.______--------------------~­
------..., 
page 12 Friday, January 21, 1994 
------~·~-----­
----·

---~~~-·----~-----­




BUSINESS 

Russian finance minister Fyodorov resigns 

By LARRY RYCKMAN 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

A key reformer quit as Russia's finance minister today after President Boris Yeltsin appointed a new Cabinet domi­nated by conservatives opposed to rapid economic reforms. 
"I have no intention of stay­ing in the government," Boris Fyodorov told a news confer­ence. 
Fyodorov, who has earned the confidence of Western lead­ers and the International Monetary Fund, had been asked to stay as fmance minis­ter. 
He was the most important reformer remaining in the gov­ernment after the resignation Sunday of First Deputy Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar, widely considered the architect of Yeltsin's economic reforms. 
Fyodorov said he had offered to stay in the Cabinet if State Bank Chairman · Viktor Gerashchenko and Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zaveryukha were removed, but his demand was not met. 
Fyodorov is an advocate of tight credit policies to fight inflation. Reformers blame Gerashchenko and Zaveryukha for huge low-interest loans to state farms and enterprises that sent inflation soaring last year. 
Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin announced today that both Gerashchenko and Zaveryukha would remain in the Cabinet, while most of Russia's bold young reformers were removed or demoted. 
AP File Photo Russian President Boris Yeltsin faces the threat of resignations from key members in his administration in response to his appointment of a new conservative Cabinet. 
The Cabinet changes, worked out by Yeltsin and Chernomyrdin in two days of talks at the Kremlin, could endanger $1.5 billion in loans to Russia not yet released by the IMF. 
Chernomyrdin told reporters that "the period of market romanticism has ended" and that the reforms must be mod­erated to "make people's lives easier." 
The prime minister insisted, however, that the transition to a free market would continue. "The course that was pursued by the government in 1993 remains unchanged," he said. 
Uncertainty over the new gov­ernment and its attitude toward fiscal policy and free-market reforms has caused near-panic selling of the ruble. 
The Russian currency hit record lows each day this week until today, when it recovered slightly to 1,553 to the U.S. dol­lar. On Wednesday, it traded officially for 1,607, but neared 2,000 at some street kiosks. 
Chernomyrdin, once written off as a political weakling, has emerged in recent weeks as an assertive prime minister willing to challenge Yeltsin over the course of reforms, many ana­lysts say. 

Single-family housing starts jumped in '93 
By JOHN McCLAIN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Builders broke ground in 1993 on the largest number of homes in four years, and ana­lysts see continued im­provement this year. 
"Low mortgage rates, better employment gains and improved consumer confidence have served to boost single­family housing starts in the sec­ond half of 1993," said econo­mist John E. Silvia of Kemper Financial Services in Chicago. "These same factors should sustain housing starts in the first half of 1994." 
Housing starts jumped 7.1 percent last year to 1.29 mil­lion, up from 1.20 million in 1992, the Commerce Department said Thursday. It was the second straight advance and lifted construction to the highest level since 1.38 million new single-family homes and apartments were built in 1989. 
Activity improved in every region but the Northeast, where it slipped slightly. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
Housing starts 
Builders broke ground in 1993 on the largest number of homes in four years, and analysts see continued improvement this year. 
Millions of units 
1 



"1"1 ' -·.· 
.~. 
'"1'"1"'... ...
... "' 
.. .. ... .., ....,i. '



~; 1·.• ··~~~~---I 
............ " ...

1970 '75 ---,.~so'---~­
'85 '90 '93 

Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce 
In other economic reports Thursday: 
• The Labor Department said first-time claims for unemploy­ment insurance jumped by 23,000 last week to a seasonal­ly adjusted 380,000. This was the highest level since July 24, 1993, when 395,000 people filed initial applications. 
Some analysts said the unex­pected increase could be a sign of sluggishness returning to the labor market. But economists 
APM/m. J Castello 

at Merrill Lynch and Co. said the increase may have been weather-related, noting that other economic indicators have been showing strength. 
• The Commerce Department said personal income grew 0. 7 percent nationally in the third quarter, advancing in all but 11 states. 
Ten of the 11 states where income declined were located in the nation's interior, where flooding_ destroyed crops last 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
year and government cuts in farm subsidies further crimped income. The 11th, Vermont, was hurt by declining payrolls in big-ticket durable manufac­turing and in construction. 
Home building activity ended the year on a strong note, shooting up 6.2 percent in December to a seasonally adjusted 1.54 million annual rate. This was the highest since a 1.55 million rate in January 1990, and the fifth straight in­crease. 
But the Merrill Lynch econo­mists suggested severe winter weather in much of the Midwest and East this month and the Los Angeles earth­quake probably would curb construction early in the year. 
Once rebuilding begins in Los Angeles and the frigid winter weather lifts, housing starts should pick up again, they said. They noted that mortgage applications for home purchas­es jumped to the highest level in three months for the week ended Jan. 15. 
Applications for building per­
mits also appeared to confirm 
the optimism. 
Internal competition at NIPSCO 
ByRON LESKO Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
Gary Neale no longer is just 
the top executive at one of 
Indiana's largest utility com­
panies. He also is the umpire 
in an internal tug-of-war for 
customers. 
Northern Indiana Public 
Service Co. has been operating 
its electric and natural gas 
units separately since Jan. 1, 
similar to competing divisions 
of the same auto company. 
The move is a reaction to 
deregulation in both indus­
tries. 
"It's friendly competition, and I'll referee to make sure it stays friendly," Neale, NIP­SCO's chairman, said Thursday. "But the customer should have options." 
The Merrillville-based utility supplies natural gas to 644,335 customers and elec­tricity to 389,975 customers in 31 northern Indiana counties. NIPSCO is the state's largest natural gas supplier and third-largest electric company. 
With a few exceptions in 
rural areas, Fort Wayne and 
South Bend are the only areas 
in NIPSCO's territory where 
gas and electric will not com­
pete. The company does not 
provide electricity in those 
cities. 
Some executives will be shuffled, but the reorgani­zation, first announced in October, is not expected to result in layoffs. 
The utility also says it won't mean a rate increase, at least not in the next few years. NIP­SCO has not raised gas prices since 1987, and its last elec­tric increase was in 1986. 
"We should be selling cus­tomers on the different tech­nologies, and let them make the choice," Neale said. "And that's really what deregulation is all about -giving the cus­tomer choices that they didn't have before." 
In theory. that means lower prices. Cheryl Bickel, a spokeswoman for the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, said it remains to be seen whether that will be true. 
"If you believe at all that competition is supposed to be good for the customer, that's what should happen," Bickel said. "We have to see how it all plays out." 


_./  oversee Chrysler Corp.'s Packaging Group, a Hercules involvement in the Big Three· spokesman saJd Thursday. ·clinton Administration'venture Applied Extrus{on Technologies a "Super Car." of Salem, Mass., is expected to complete the purchase about April 1. The purchase price was not disclosed. The film group also includes a plantin  
/...,  th.e best year ever for finished steel. at it$ Burns Harbor Division. The nation's second· to develop largest steel maker shipped 4.8 Timothy Adams will continue to million tons of plate and sheet run Automobile Lamborghini products from the Portage fac-S.p.A. until Chrysler's sale of tory in 1~93. That surpassed its the company to an Inqot1esian  
/\,_,/_\. J_  
../\....­"  _.../ ..  
~  y...r  
~  



VIEWPOINT 
Friday, January 21, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney Managing Editor Bwiness Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
NCWJ Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .................... .Anne Heroman Vocwpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Managcr ...................... Stcph Goldman Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ..... , ................... Kenya Johnson SystcmJ Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Dircctor ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The ObSCTVer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univcrsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accuratdy and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lcttcl> and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lencrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Ling 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Bwincss O!focc 631-5313 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Sporu 631-4543 Systcms/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE miTOR 

page 13 

Dear Editor: 
It absolutely amazes me how out of sync from the rest of the world this University is. I think there is a fine line between con­servatism and blindness. and also one between being old­fashioned and being obsolete. 
Notre Dame, thanks to its administrators, has crossed both of these lines. In many ar­eas Notre Dame has fallen far behind in the progression of American educational institu­tions. 
Compared to so many other colleges in America today, Notre Dame may seem as if it has seceded from the nation. Let's look at some of the areas in which Notre Dame has fallen behind... 
In the past week, record-set­ting temperatures have been set in the Midwestern region. Wind chill factors reaching over 60 below zero were present, as well as many inches of snow. 

' Food Services at Notre Dame also pales in comparison to other schools.' 
The weather was so bad, in fact that many schools closed their doors. at least for a day. 
Purdue and Indiana University each were closed on Tuesday due to the weather. Notre Dame was the only edu­cational institution in the coun­ty open on that day, with the exception of Holy Cross and Saint Mary's College. I will agree that education is not to 
DOONESBURY 
of classes more important than risking pneumonia and frost­bite? 
Food Services at Notre Dame also pales in comparison to other schools. At many other institutions, both public and private, students have many options for their meals. Their meals may be eaten at dining halls, or at other snack bars and restaurants on campus. and it is all put on the meal plan. 
Here in South Bend, our op­tions are to eat at North or South Dining Hall, unless you feel like shelling out ten bucks for a pizza (or a burger at the Huddle). There really is no rea­son for Notre Dame to ignore this topic. Although ideas such posed, they have been repeat­edly denied by the Administration. 
Such a point system for a meal plan would only serve the student body better, while tak­ing nothing away from the University, perhaps even con­tributing to it, rather than hav­ing so many students calling Papa John's every time that the Dining Halls serve nothing but Shepherd's Pie. 
Housing is another issue in which the University does not make the grade. Especially this past week, with the extreme weather, it has become painful­ly obvious to many how inade­quate the residential facilities on this campus are. Hot water has been in somewhat short greater importance though is the poor heating equipment in many of the dorms, especially the older ones. 
My bedroom in Planner had no heat for a long time, and it was fixed only after many calls to maintenance. However, I have heard many complaints of poor heating in dorms such as BP, Farley, Zahm, and Morissey. One would think that for 20,000 dollars a year, we could get a little heat in our rooms. Especially in this town. 
The whole co-ed dorm and parietals thing has been beaten to death, and although I am in favor of the revision of these policies, I will not say much. Only that if there is enough fluctuation in the gender ratio 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

to warrant the conversion of two dorms within three years, couldn't one co-residential dorm provide enough of a cush­ion to eliminate the need to randomly convert every few years? 
With regard to parietals, which are established in the interest of privacy, according to the University. How can my privacy be so well protected through parietals when there is a 60-year old woman in my bathroom every time I get out of the shower each morning? 
And there is much more to be covered. Issues in race rela­tions, relations between the student body and the adminis­tration, as well as the teacher­student relations at Notre Dame are all sub-par. Notre Dame is an institution almost as stag­nant as a swamp. In the history of the universe, species which have been unable to adapt to changing environments have 
' Notre Dame is an institution almost as stagnant as a swamp.' 
eventually become extinct. Sooner or later, Notre Dame will become an institution which will not be able to com­pete with other colleges. The fate of the University is in its own soft and manicured hands. Time to put them to work. 
MARTY PHELAN Junior Flanner Hall 

" politics is the art of looking for trouble, firx:ling it whether it exists or oot, diagnosing it incorrectly, and applying the wrong remedy." -Sir Ernest Benn 
----------~ 
-~-----------------~--------------­
The Observer • ETC. Friday, January 21, 1994 




friday 
events 
Student Film Festival, Snite Auditorium, 7:30 and 9:45 p.m., $2. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
Late Night Olympics VIII, 9 p.m. to 3 a.m. J.A.C.C. 
"Brighton Beach Memoirs," Washington Hall, 8 p.m., $4 at LaFortune Box Office, St. Edward's Hall Players. 
Open Skate LNO VIII, 10 p.m., J.A.C.C. $1 donation for skate rental. "The Program," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:30 p.m., $2. ND swimming vs, Cleveland State, 3:30p.m., Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

music 
Cliff Erickson, Alumni/ Senior Bar, 10 p.m. 


saturday 
events 
Student Film Festival, Snite Auditorium, 7:30 and 9:45 p.m., $2. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre "Brighton Beach Memoirs," Washington Hall, 8 p.m., $4 at LaFortune Box Office, St. Edward's Hall Players. "The Program," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:30 p.m., $2. Men's tennis vs. Miami (OH) and N. Illinois, 2 p.mJ7 p.m., Eck Pavilion. ND women's basketball vs. Butler, 7:30p.m., J.A.C.C. Arena. 

music 
Victoria's Real Secret, with Toob, The Loft at LaFortune Ballroom, 9 p.m. to 12 a.m., free admis­sion.Sponsored by SUB. 


sunday 
events 
Misa en Espanol, 11:30 a.m., Badin Hall Chapel, cele­brante Padre Dan Groody. All are welcome. "Ghost Stories," 7:30p.m., Moreau Center at SMC, $12, at SMC Box Office, 284-4626. 


movies 
University Park East 
Shadowlands 7:15, 9:50 Philadelphia 7, 9:35 Grumpy Old Men 7:30,9:40 The Piano 7, 9:20 Three Musketeers 7:20, 9:45 Sister Act II 7:10, 9:30 


University Park West 
Heaven and Earth 8 Tombstone 7, 9:40 Iron Will 7:10, 9:30 

By TANYA KRYWARUCZENKO Assistant Accent Editor 
Where would you go to witness events like a Monster Dodge Ball game. a thrilling kayaking contest and a unique Nerf Football match all on this campus in the dead of winter? The Late Night Olympics, of course. 
The eighth annual Late Night Olympics will take place tonight, starting at 8 p.m. and running until the early hours of the morning, at the Joyce Altheletic and Convocation Center (J.A.C.C.) 
Participants include students from Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's who are prepared to transform them­selves into champions bearing such weapons as broomsticks and inflated intertubes. 
A total of thirty residence halls are divided up into twelve teams and will compete in designated events representing their halls. 
Late Night Olympics offers many popular events according to Kara O'Leary. Late Night Olympics Co­ordinator. "Volleyball and basketball are always real popular." 
Another big event, the Monster Dodge Ball game, takes place at midnight in the arena. There are 100 

Special Olympics 
benefits from Late 

Night events 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON "Last year we came to see Assistant Accent Editor the Late Night Olympics to see what it was all about." Evans 
For the first time, this year's said. "We were thrilled to see Late Night Olympics will have a the athletes and had so much special twist. Athletes from the fun." St. Joseph's county Special Olympics will be present during People from the Special the olympic games to challenge Olympics talked with Sally Notre Dame students to a bas­Derengoski from RecSports and ketball game. arranged this event so the 
Notre Dame students can see 
The exhibition basketball where the money from the Late game will be against Badin, night games is going, Evans Holy Cross and Dillon late night explained. The money helps teams and will consist of two considerably with the budget, twelve minute halves. The especially during the basketball Special Olympics will bring ap­season, Evans said. proximately twelve athletes Transportation, meals and uni­ranging in age from eighteen to forms are a few of the things thirty-eight. that the money assists the St. 
Joe's Special Olympics in pur­
Along with the game the chasing. Special Olympic participants The St. Joe's Special Olympics will set up a stand where sou­opened in 1968 in order to 
venirs, such as hats and water bring area athletes to the first bottles may be purchased, ac­International Special Olympics cording to Sharon Evans, in Chicago and has continued to County Coordinator for the St. run a strong program, Evans Joseph's county Special said. It is a non prophet orga­Olympics. nization that is run by volun­teers and serves two hundred 
The proceeds of Late Night and fifty athletes. Olympics have traditionally gone to help the local Special So, Friday night everyone will Olympics, yet this is the first get some exercise on the bas­time Special Olympics athletes ketball court and have some will be directly involved in the fun to raise money in support event. of the "Special Olympians." 
people in the game, divided into two teams of fifty PI pie each. "It's a lot of fun to watch-it's kind o wake-up call at midnight, O'Leary said." 
Also popular, the Ultimate Rec Sports Challenge, obstacle course, is a new and surprising course to 1 participants every year, she said. 
New events this year include racquetball, a kayaW contest and a dunk tank. The dunk tank, sponsored/ The Observer, will run from 9 p.m. to 3 p.m. 
For fifty cents. students have five chances to d1 people including Bob Bayliss, men's tennis coach; J~ Hutchinson, Breen-Phillips rector;Bill Kirk. assisll vice-president of student affairs; David PrentkoWf food services; Kathy Royer, Center for Social Concer Frank Flynn, student body president; Bill Kempf, It Guard; Jeff Gerber, Bengal Bouts; and Andy Budzin the leprechaun. 
Student participation in the Late Night Olympics : grown each year, O'Leary commented. The wa1 games and contests beckon curious students loolci for excitment and fun on the weekends. 
"There has been more support and interest eVI year," she said. "I was impressed with how many~ pie signed up to participate this year." Six :ea1 entered all eighteen of the events. 
Friday, January 21, 1994 

As in previous years. all proceeds raised from the Late Night Olympics will go to the Special Olympics of St. Joseph County, O'Leary added. 
Debuting this year, an exhibition basketball game will take place with members of the Special Olympics team battling against the Late Night basketball team of Badin/Dillon/Holy Cross, she said. "The Special Olympians seem to be real enthusiastic about it." 
"We've raised about $15,000 over the last seven years for the Special Olympics," she said. Examples of how funds are raised at the Late Night Olympics include a one dollar donation at the door. teams pay­ing a registration fee, Late Night Olympic t-shirt sales, a program with ads in it and a raffle, O'Leary explained. 
Over 200 hundred prizes including food prizes, gift certificates from local merchants and sweatshirts from the Notre Dame Bookstore and the Varsity Shop will be raffled off throughout the evening. Winners need not be present. 
"We have received a very good response from the local businesses," O'Leary said. 
Raffle tickets can be purchased from each residence hall's Late Night Olympics representative, at the RecSports Office located in the J.A.C.C., and on Friday Night at the start of the Late Night Olympic games. 
"According to the Special Olympics in this county, the funds that are raised from the Late Night Olympics are the largest donation they receive all year," she said. "I think that says a lot about the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students." 
Siegfried Hall junior Ann Lillie participated in the volleyball contest last year and plans to participate in it again this year. 
"It was a lot of fun and it was a great opportunity to meet people from other dorms," said Lillie. "There is also time in between to go and see the other events and see what your friends are doing." 
"My most memorable moment of the Late Night Olympics was playing volleyball at 5 a.m. last year," said Lillie. 
Sorin Hall freshman Warren Junium said he is excit­ed about the upcoming event. "Everyone said it's a lot of fun and a great night. And it's for a good cause," said Junium. Junium plans to participate in the Nerf Football and Kickball matches. 
Although most of the events required prior registra­tion before the night of the Olympics, there are a few events that do not require registration. So some stu­dents may let the spontaneity consume them. 
The ice rink will have an open skate from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m. Skate rental is $1, that also is a donation ot the Special Olympics. The Slam-Dunk contest. which starts at 11 p.m., will take sign-ups from 8 to10:30 
p.m. on Friday. 

If students missed registration for an event, but their hall signed up for the event they can participate as an alternate. 
The Late Night Olympics were originally started by Sally Derengoski, Assistant Director of Recreational Sports, said O'Leary. When Derengoski was an under­graduate at Indiana University, they had an all night event similar to the Late Night Olympics. 
Derengoski wanted to try a fun event like this at Notre Dame and "to do it for a good cause and raise money for Special Olympics," O'Leary said. 
Winning teams of an event receive medals and the overall championship team of the Late Night Olympics also receive medals. 
"We encourage people to come out to the Late Night Olympics and observe and what's going on," she said. 
Students should go for the gold this Friday evening and demonstrate their olympic abilities for a good cause, the Special Olympics. 
The Rock oHers exhilarating rock climbing experience 
'.;:~9&t; ,_ "":::. charice to turn into a b~;k:etball 
ad "' ·.· slgn-u}ls, Th~e . . . . .. ·s. heigbi wm " modified to 9 ft. aw.arded~ You can ~gn up for: , lam Dimk kicks.otT at\:lt·· 
By MATT CARBONE 
Accent writer 

Devil's Tower. The Black Hills of South Dakota. El Capitan in Yosemite. 
To these ominous and renowned names of rock climb­ing. another title must now be added: The Wall at the Rock. 
Beginning this Sunday, a new option will be available to cam­pus athletes -a 20-foot indoor rock climbing wall. 
The wall is a product of more than two years of intensive work on the part of Sally Derengoski. assistant director of RecSports, Brother Lewis Hurcik, director of the Rockne Memorial. Bill Ramsey, assis­tant professor of philosophy and Brian Foy, Dillon Hall se­nior and president of the Climbing Club. 
Almost three years ago, Ramsey approached Derengoski and RecSports about the possibility of having a climbing wall on campus, a recreation apparatus that has cropped up on many campuses across the country. 
Derengoski was very recep­tive. 
"It's a new idea," said Derengoski. "Part of (RecSports') responsibility is to be on the lookout for recreation opportunities." 
For the past two years, Derengoski has worked closely with Ramsey and Hurcik to bring the idea of the wall to fruition. 
"Bill Ramsey has had an aw­
ful lot to do with the success of 
this program," said Derengoski. 
"Father Lewis (Hurcik) has 
been very helpful." 
After going through an in­
volved and demanding beauro­
cratic process, including a re­
view by the university's risk 
management and safety de­
partment, the wall was con­
structed last month by a local 
construction company. 
"The university has been very 
supportive throughout," com­
mented Derengoski" 
The wall was built in three 
weeks at a cost of $8,000, 
which was split between 
RecSports and the Rock. 
Foy, a veteran rock climber who has been climbing for seven years, is excited that the wall will finally be open for business. 
"A lot of people have been working very hard on the wall for a long time," said Foy. "It's great exercise and a lot of fun." 
Judging from the response on Activities Night last semester to his Climbing Club booth (almost 200 signatures) and the 50 peo­ple who have regularly attend­ed the club's meetings, Foy is not alone in his enthusiasm for the wall. 
Anton Rivera. treasurer of the club, is an avid rock climber who has been crazy with antici­pation for the wall's opening. 
"I can't get enough of rock climbing," said Rivera. "I can­not describe the sensation when you're up there. It's like I get into this zone, where it's just me and the rock." 
If Foy is correct, Rivera and others will be able to enter that zone with the wall, which stands 20 feet high and is lo­cated in one of the Rock's rac­quetball courts. 
The wall is composed of a de­
cline, an incline, a roof and a 
plateau, according to Foy. 
Three color-coded routes of 
varying difficulties are also 
marked on the was, which is 
made of plywood sprayed with 
sand grit "to simulate an actual 
mountain," said Foy. 
"The wall is not really big for 
long, sustained climbs," said 
Foy. "It's purpose is to be more 
of a workout for your legs and 
hands, and for practicing tech­
niques which will prepare you 
for long climbs." 
To that end, RecSports will be 
coordinating orientation ses­
sions at the Rock. Anyone 
wanting to climb the wall must 
attend one session, lasting ap­
proximately one hour. 
"Beginners are welcome and 
should not be intimidated," said 
Foy of the orientation classes. 
"The class is only meant to 
teach the basic techniques, and 
make you comfortable with the 
wall." 

In February, more skills-ori­ented clinics will be offered by RecSports, according to Derengoski. 
"The orientation class will only teach you the basic fun­damental skills you need," she 
said. "The clinics will make you a better climber." 
All of this will make climbers ready for the weekend climbing trips Foy and his club have planned if and when it warms up in the spring. "We're plan­ning on climbing in southern Illinois, southern Indiana and Kentucky," said Foy. 
The regular schedule for the wall be Sundays 2 p.m..m. to 5 p.m., Tuesdays and Thursdays 7 p.m..m. to 10 p.m. with Jan. 24 as the grand opening. 

Two experienced climbers will be on hand at all times as monitors and spotters for 
climbers of the wall. 
Those interested in climbing the wall can (and must) sign up for an orientation session at RecSports. Orientation sessions will take place on Jan. 23, 2:30 
p.m. to 3:30 p.m.and 4 p.m. to 5 p.m.; Jan. 25, 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. and Jan. 27, 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
Any questions can be directed to Derengoski at 631-6690. 
... 
Dillon Hall senior Brian Foy, president of the Climbing Club, scales the "White Punks on Dope" in The Needles, CA. Foy and several others have been helpful to bring a climbing wall to the Rockne Memorial, which will be open for use on Jan. 23. 
---------------~ 
page 16 The Observer· LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, January 21, 1994 
Remember the Holy Grail, God Squad '92 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers lo a Bonefj 9od 
Two years ago, a serious­minded group of young Christians were wandering around this campus in a funk of indecision on whether God was calling them to be priests. I tried to tell them that it was probably six of one, half-dozen of another with Him, whether they became priests or not. 
The burden of being gifted with free will is that He's in the habit of letting us take charge of our lives. I can see signs of His will in this: He evidently doesn't want me to be a brain surgeon: I cut myself when I take a knife in my hand to slice bread. He doesn't want me to be a pro football player; but I don't have to prove this to you, do I? Then why would I want to? 
At Oxford or Cambridge, such a cluster of lads aspiring to be holy as laymen or clergy would be labelled "apostles." At Notre Dame, they were more plainly "the God squad." In number, they would be a baker's dozen, I think. Since I saw more of their shadows than I did of them, I found it hard to take a head count. 
What do I mean when I say I saw their shadows? I mean. I saw them trying to shadow-box with God. I kept expecting them to discover that they're not quick enough on their feet to shadow-box with God. As Muhammad Ai said, "you have to float like a butterfly, sting like a bee" to lay the shadow of a glove on Him. 

an ancient Druid named Merlin would bury it. 
It remained buried for three hundred years, until the year that Arthur became king. Only Sir Galahad, the knight from Arthur's court whose strength was as the strength of ten because his heart was pure, was allowed to handle the Grail. 
The Grail will not be seen on earth again, until the last evening of the world, when Christ will say Mass. using the Grail, for all the souls he will meet at the judgment the next morning. 
So, members of the God Squad '92, every story become part of the ONE GREAT GRAIL story, as long as you don't let grass grow on the grace under your feet everywhere in a sacramental universe. Let me give you advice for the safari you're in search of a vocation that you are really in no hurry to find, or so I would guess from the amount of time you are taking; all the answer it really requires when a divine overture is received is Adsum. 
Don't spend a lot of time praying. Just wait for God to happen. The prayerful fellows believe that if they're persistent enough with their fervor, they can drive God onto the high ground between a rock and a hard place, where He can cor­ner them with His divine grace; but that doesn't sound respect­ful to me. I mean, it's the same principle you'd usc if you went raccoon hunting with a hound dog. 
Picking up the trail, the dog starts its pursuit of the game hrough woodland and swamp, restless until it can tree the rac­coon, now exhausted and unhappy. 
I've got news for the prayer­ful fellows: God does not leave a trail. Why would He need to? He's all around us. Since He's the Hound of Heaven, it would seem appropriate to let Him trail us. 
When I want His attention, I choose a corner where I will be very visible, then wait to see what He has in mind. Travelling blind, I can always tell from the pay ofT if I'm where He wants me. 
I'm no authority on prayer, squaddies. But what should I know that I don't know? What is to bw known about prayer that's as objective as the facts of life? Most of us must pray without knowing it. That could mean that the thing we do when we go hrough the routinues of prayer are per­ceived by Him as our ways of distracting Him when He's doing something important, like planting tulip bulbs, or listening to Beethoven. 
Good luck with your discern­ments, squaddies. For God's sake do get on with it, so that I can shorten my prayer list. How do I decide who to keep on, and who to drop. Can't God under­stand what a lot of work there would be if this damned reli· gion turned out to be substan­tially true? 
I am writing to ask how the discernment process is going. If you're going to burn yourselves out trying to decide whether to leave all things and follow Jesus, how would you handle 
an  icewater  enema  from  a  
pagan  wanting  to  make  a  
Christian cry?  

According to the Gospel story, it didn't take Andrew and Simon Peter two years to decide on leaving their nets and boats, or the old gaffer, their father. 
They just told him "Pappa, the time has come for us to make something of ourseles, if we can. Jesus just made an offer we can't refuse. He says it's time for us to come with thwm and start hanging out. 
"We shook hands on the deal papa, and now we're saying so long for while, but we want you to know we're leaving home with aching hearts. We've fixed it up so that you can have three choices. 
You can stay single and go it alone; you can marry a woman to keep house and be company. Or you can take a hike down the road to the sailors' Snug Harbor. to retire with your mates for life. 
"Boys," said the old gaffer. "I got a call to serve God that I'm mulling over, Now that I have you fellas off my hands. I'm thinking of becoming a rabbi. 
"Fine," they said, "if that's what makes you happy. Don't take any wooden denarii, and don't forget we're expecting you home for the Jewish High Holidays." 
So Simon Peter's and Andrew's old gaffer headed toward Jerusalem, and told the Pharisee on duty that he thought he had a vocation. The next day, after passing the writ­ten and physical tests, he joined the Pharisees. As it turned out, he was present for the Crucifixion. After it was over, for the sake of his boys. he helped take the body down from the Cross, and lay it in the burial who were friends of Jesus place. 
The Jews who were friends of Jesus, were surprised to see him near the Lord's mother. All they knew of him was that he was a Pharisee. His name as a Pharisee was Joseph of Arimathea. 
After Jesus returned from the dead, Joseph did His followers another favor. He agreed to bring the Grail,used by Jesus at the last meal before He died,to a hillside at Glastonbury where 




page 17 

Friday, January 21, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS 




NFC title game is deja vu for Cowboys and 49ers 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 

In 1982, the San Francisco 49ers beat the Dallas Cowboys in the NFC title game. leaping over "America's Team" and into the NFL's elite. A year ago, the Cowboys returned the fa­vor. jumping back over the 49ers to inherit the mantle of the team of the 1990s. 
So there's a sense of history repeating itself in Sunday's 49ers-Cowboys game at Texas Stadium for yet another NFC ti­tle. 
San Francisco has played in 
seven of these games during 
the Super Bowl era, including 
five times in the last six years. 
Dallas has been in 11 title 
games. and between them the 
49ers and Cowboys have rep­
resented the NFC 11 times in 
27 Super Bowls, winning seven. 
Sunday's winner will be favored 
over either Kansas City or 
Buffalo to add another notch to the NFC's nine-game winning streak in the pro football's championship game. 
In other words, we're not talk­ing about the Cardinals, Bucs, Saints, Falcons or Lions here. 
"I think the Cowboys and 49ers are two of the best teams in football," says Dallas coach Jimmy Johnson, speaking not just for this season but for his­tory. He can talk that way ­his team won the last two meet­ings, 30-20 a year ago to win the NFC title, and 26-17 at Texas Stadium on Oct. 17. 
And yet this is a peculiar 
game, probably because this 
has been a peculiar year in the 
NFL. 

At various times, both San 
Francisco and Dallas have 
looked like the NFL's best team. 
It was the 49ers' turn last 
week in their 44-3 demolition of 
the New York Giants, who two 
weeks before had forced the 
Cowboys into overtime to win 
the NFC East title. 
"Last week, he abused us 
publicly and privately to moti­vate us," quarterback Steve Young said of the tactics coach George Seifert used to wake up the 49ers. "This week he's only abusing us privately." 
At other times. both have looked ordinary or worse, as San Francisco did in losing three of its last four regular­season games and the Cowboys did during two two-game losing streaks and last week in plod­ding past Green Bay. 27-17. 
But if nothing else, these are 
two of the league's best of­
fenses in a season when scoring 
has been at a premium. 
"Basically we're looking at a 
mirror image," says Emmitt 
Smith, the Dallas running back 
and league MVP who will play 
again with a right shoulder that 
was separated in that battle 
with the Giants on Jan. 2. 
San Francisco scored more 
than 34 points in nine of its 17 
games and has been over 40 
points five times and 50 once. 
Yet it's only 11-6, largely be­cause of that late-season slump after its playoff position had been determined. 
Dallas, which is 13-4 includ­ing its playoff win, hasn't scored as much, but the poten­tial is there. Quarterback Troy Aikman missed two and a half games with a pulled hamstring and Smith held out for two games, although he still won his third straight NFL rushing title. 
But look at the offenses and 
you see the mirror. 
The 49ers have perhaps the 
NFL's best offensive line with 
four past or present Pro 
Bowlers: tackles Harris Barton 
and Steve Wallace. guard Guy 
Mcintyre and center Jesse 
Sapolu. Dallas, with tackle Erik 
Williams and guard Nate New­
ton, isn't far behind, although 
it's missing one of its stars, cen­
ter Mark Stepnoski. 
But the skill positions are even 
more similar: 
-Smith at running back vs. 
San Francisco's Ricky Watters, 
who set a playoff record with five touchdowns against the Gi­ants. Each is augmented by a blue-collar fullback who can catch, block and run if neces­sary -Tom Rathman of the 49ers and Daryl "Moose" Johnston of the Cowboys. 
-Aikman, last year's Super Bowl MVP. at quarterback against Young. last year's league MVP and the NFL's passing leader the last two sea­sons. Young has the onus of still trying to escape the shadow of Joe Montana. 
and win aconference title or Super Bowl. -Jerry Rice of San Francisco, perhaps the best receiver of all­time, against Michael Irvin of Dallas, who's not far behind. They are augmented by two of the NFL's best No. 2 pass catch­ers -the 49ers' John Taylor and the Cowboys' Alvin Harper. Plus two tight ends who catch more than block -Brent Jones of San Francisco and Jay Novacek of Dallas, both No. 84 in your program. 
The Observer.accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame_ office, 314 l.afortu~e and_ from 12 p.m. to .3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadlme for next-clay class1fieds IS 3p.m. All class1fieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard 233-2342 /10-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Grey metal double cross ear­ring between 2nd floor PW and North Dining Hall on 1/14. Call Bridget at 4-2965 ~ you found it 
I lost a silver chin wnh a cross walking from Roalls to Alumni in the snow. If you find ~ I would really appreciate it ~ you would call me. Todd # 1251 
LOST: EYEGLASSES IN TAN CASE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL AMYX4966 
$$$$ REWARD $$$$ For the return of my dark green long winter coat ! It disappeared from Club 23 last Friday. Please help me. I'm very cold! Call Kate x-1564 No ?'s asked. 
$$$$ REWARD $$$$ for the return of my long dark 
green coat (Harry Levine Peme) that disappeared from Club 23 last Friday. Please help; I'm very cold. Call Kate x-1564 No ?'s asked! 
FOUND: YELLOW CASIO DIGITAL WATCH IN LOT Cl ON 1/17. CALL 287-5457 & IDENTIFY. 
LOST: several keys on a round United States Senate key chain. One of the keys is a big black 
Honda key. Another is a blue key. Please call Joe at 234-6306 with any information. 
WANTED 

GOOD OPPORTUNITY FOR 
GRAD STUDENT SPOUSE Professional couple seeks mature, responsible person to care for newborn in our home about 40 hrs/Wk. Must be non-smoker, provide 3 references, have own transportation. Position available end of March/beginning of April. Send personal info to: "Childcare Provider" c/o 6910 N. Gumwood Rd, Unit 1 Box 14, Granger, IN 46530. 
-sPRING BREAK '94­Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, 
Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREE! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. 
Are you.interested in making money, having fun and gaining valu­able promotion experience while continuing your education? Guinness Import Company has a temporary pos~ion for an extremely motivated, high energy Local Market Manager in the Chicago area. This exc~ing opportunity involves planning, implementing and executing special events in key bars and restaurants. Spec~ic responsibil~ies will include receiving and displaying collateral material in key accounts, daily contact with local GIC Sales Manager, and coor­dinating and managing each event. A background in marketing/commu­nications is a plus. The candidate must be 21 Years of age or older and have their own car. The suc­cessful applicant is professional and able to run an event creating excite­ment and communicating the brand to the consumer. The individual will receive salary plus travel expenses and training. Selected candidates may receive offers for potential employment in the GIC Sales Training Program. Send or fax resumes to: Eve Leder, Tipton & Maglione, 19 West 21st street, NY, NY 10010: Fax (212)691-2157 
N D grads need babysitter on Mon 
or Fri for 4 hour period. Must have 
car. Near campus. Call Liz at 232­
5790. 

CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
CAMP THUNDERBIRD 
Camp Counselors Needed 
Resident Summer Camp 
for Developmentally Disabled 
Children & Adults. 
June 18-Aug 26 
Orlando, FL area 
1-407-889-8088 
$700/Wk. canneries; $4500/mo. 
deckhands. Alaska summer fish­
eries now hiring. Employment 
Alaska 1-206-323-2672 
Help! I need a ride to Cleveland, Ohio (or all the way to Erie, Pa. ~ you are going that far) the weekend of Jan. 28. Very friendly,$$ tor gas, tolls, etc. Call Brian x3043 
FEMALE MODELS for suggestive but tasteful pin-up-type photos. Call 273-7074 alter 5 for info. 
FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225. MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306 
SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6 BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 
APARTMENT, 132 MARQUETTE, 3 BLOCKS FROM NO, 1500 SQ. FT., 2 BR & 1 BATH, HARDWOOD 
FLOORS, FIREPLACE, GREAT 
NEIGHBORHOOD, OPEN FEB 1 TO JULY 31, $500/MO. +UTILI­TIES, CALL 234-1744 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 2322595 
FOR SALE 
IMMACULATE3 BDRM CAPECOO 4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. BULLA R0.$64,500.272-6306 
SPECIALIZED ROCKHOPPER, 18', SCOTT AT-4 HANDLEBARS, NEW SHIMANO OX HEADSET AND PEDALS, NEW SHIMANO CARTRIDGE BOTTOM BRACKET AND HYPERGLIDE CHAIN, 399.99, CALL BILL 684-5911. 
SPRING BREAK CANCUN Best pkg around. College Tours econ.&lux. trips Can find extras ~ needed ~II reps 4 fliers & 
prices X232-7109 

386/20 IBM Compatible w~h SVGA 
Color monitor, 24-Pin Color Printer, 
2400 Baud Modem, 80MB Hard 
Drive, Dual Floppies, Math 
Coprocessor. Great Buy at $11 00 
or best offer. Call634-4732 for 
details or leave message. 
GARTH BROOKS TICKETS FOR 
SALE!! 

Call 273-6548 and leave a message 
wtth your offer and how many tick­
ets you need! 

I TICKETS 
-FORSALE .............. SIX GARTH BROOKS TICKETS All tickets are together for the Sunday, February 13 show. Call4-1337 with your best offer!! ........ ********** ***''****"*" **"'**"'*** 
WANTED: One student ticket for NO basketball game Monday (Jan. 
24) for visiting friend. Please call/leave message for Brendan. Phone 631-8839 or 277--4847 any­time. 
I need 4 tix. 4 CARROT TOP X1646 -Toby 
Will pay $$BIG BUCKS$$ for Garth Brooks Tickets. Call Sarah at #3818. 
PERSONAL 

JPW wknd confrmd reservation @Jamison Inn avail. for trade for cnfrmd hotel res. Stanford wknd, Sep29-0ct1 call Paul1-800-538­9363-(xt)5128 
JoiEUUUUU AJIJoU AAA AU 

YOU NEED A KNOTT ANGEL TO SHOW YOU WHAT LUCK IS ALL ABOUT­
KNOTT HALL'S CASINO NIGHT JAN. 28 ******************"*** *** 
Wanted: students interested in easy volunteer work located in a nice study enviomment.'To become an operator for COUNSELINE 2hrs,.Wk, call Sarah X3846 
................ ***"*****...*" 
Alumni Awareness Week 
Look here for Scavenger Hunt Clues next week 
Coming soon: Say HELLO Campaign 

Casual Career Night: Come meet the Alumni Board of Directors and 
enjoy some pizza. 

Details for events will be posted-
Alumni Awareness Week 
:UAUA AU AJcUA$11;kltAAAAAAAU 

ATTENTION ALL KofC MEMBERS: On Friday at 7pm at the Kof C, checks will be given to the Mother's and Women's Care Centers for $2500 to mark the Roe v. Wade anniversary. All members and the general public are welcome to attend!! 
adventurous? tall? spontaneous? friendly? incredibly, obscenely, outrageously good sense of humor? bored stiff on saturday night? 
Call my agents at 4029. Best mes­sage gets a date to Pop Farley. they'll call you. 
SUMMER JOBS ·ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILORENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373 
Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes 
Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free 
Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 
1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! 
Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 days on the beach! We have the best trips & prices! Includes air & hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­
678-6386 

Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days oceanview room with k~chen $119! Walk to best bars! Includes free dis­count card -save $50 on cover charges! 1-800-678-6386 
Florida's New Spring Break 
hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key 
West! More upscale than Panama 
City/Daytona! Great beaches & 
nighUife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa 
Beachfront Resort $159! Key West 
$249! 1-800-678-6386 
SOPHOMORES!!!! 
Form tum-in for Sophomore Sibs 
Weekend is Jan. 31 in the Sorin 
Room from 3-6:30 p.m. 
Don't miss out on the opportunity to share Notre Dame with your sib. 
All monies, forms, etc. should be 
turned in at that time. 
SOPHOMORES!!! 
JPW escape is Feb. 18-20 but tix go on sale starting Jan. 17. Sales are from 3-5 on M & W and from 6-8 on Tu and Th. 
Only $50 gets hotel, trans. and tick­et to Phantom or 2nd City. First-come first-served. Supplies are limned. 
Thank you Garth Brooks for making my dreams come true... see you soon backstage. love, Kevin Janicki 
The critics love n... --stars. -Two thumbs up! -It was much better than Cats. I'd 
see it again and again. 
"BRIGHTON BEACH MEMOIRS" Wanting a date? See St. Ed's Hall Players in their finest tonight and Sat. night at Wash. Hall @8PM. Tickets $4 at Lafortune Box Office 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D. C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Med/legal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 
HEY!! A gu~rist and drummer are looking for a bassist and gu~rist to form a really brutal band. Experience and equipment are a must! If Interested, call Rob at x4330 Thanks! 
Student Activities is now hiring for this semester: 1 Ballroom Mon~or 1 Building Set Up Crew 
and for the 94-95 academic year: 4 Sound Techs (to be trained this semester) 
APPLY NOW AT 315LAFORTUNE 
THE ALUMNI ARE COMING !!! 
THE ALUMNI ARE COMING !!! 
Alumni Awareness Week 
January 24 -28th 
Open House at the Alumni Office Monday from l..Spm Escape from the cold and enjoy hot chocolate and snacks. 
POP FARLEY WEEK 1994!!!! 
URGENT! anyone going or wanl 
to go to janet jackson concert, 
Indianapolis call 4-1305 
-BEAT THE RUSH­
VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly 
approaching, and if you want to 
write a classified to that special 
someone, you can type your ad 
now. Your message will appear 
the special Valentine's Observer 
Feb. 14. We are located on the 
floor of Lafortune . 
AAUA AJiAA*ItUkUAUJnUJtAAUUAAUitA 


------------------~---------~----------------------------~----------~--------------~--------------~--~--~ 

page 18 The Observer· MID-SEASON REPORT 
Irish are winning and the stoic is happy 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Spons Editor 
Some days Muffet McGraw could pass for a stoic. 
In recent years the Notre Dame women's basketball coach would follow a loss with a stern expression and few words. In games the Irish should have won, she would give new meaning to the phrase "cold shoulder." 
But much to the enjoyment of the media and fans, McGraw has been as talkative as a Southern hairdresser this sea­son. With her team coasting at 11-4, its best start since 1990­91, there is much to talk about. And for now, the stoic is left in the locker room. 
"We have good chemistry, good leadership, and the atti­tude of the team is great," said McGraw, in her seventh year with the Irish. "We have great senior leadership, a lot more talent this year, great depth, we play better defense and the frosh have made a big contri­bution." 
All of these reasons showed Evansville 93-84 last night at the Joyce ACC. The game was like night and day from last season, when in their first meeting the Aces dealt Notre Dame a 73-69 defeat. 


The Irish couldn't put away even the softest of Midwestern Collegiate Conference foes a year ago, but this season McGraw's troop is growing ac­customed to big leads and even bigger wins. 
"We came as close as we have all year to playing a full 40 minutes," said senior Kara Leary. "We have played nearly complete games, but not per­fect yet." 
It would send a scream through the MCC if the Irish were to play flawless and send a ripple wavering in the direc­tion of the pollsters, who have neglected to vote the Irish in the Top 25. 
The win over Evansville was as emblematic as the 10 which preceded it. Every player on the roster scored, and five were in double figures-including two freshmen. The Irish shot well from three-point range (7 -13) nent 51-29 (currently ranked ninth in the nation in that cate­gory). They also held the Aces to .315 shooting from the floor. . In short, the Irish are winning with depth, defense and rebounding. 
"We can do so many things," said Leary. "If one area of our offense isn't working, we can look to another, and we are playing much better defense." 
McGraw crammed a new defensive system into her play­ers during the preseason, and they have accepted it with pride. 
The chic trend on the team is tenacious in-your-face defense. Cheers come for steals, re­bounds and blocked shots. This is a team made up of Dennis Rodmans, minus the contro­versy and bad hair. 
"Everyone has accepted a role," said McGraw. "It is not something you coach. A player has to find their spot and then work for the team. This year's group has done that extremely well." 
No one has done it better than Leary. She is the consummate point guard, averaging a silent eight points per game coupled with five assists, both career­highs. The former walk-on had 61 assists last year but already has 68 in 1993. 
This team does have a Michael Jordan, or more fitting, a Larry Bird. ·Freshman Beth Morgan looks and plays like the former Celtic star. She is the team's leading scorer, averag­ing 16.2 points per game, and had a team-high 14 against Evansville. 
Fellow freshmen Jeannine Augustin and Katryna Gaither have also carved a niche on the team. Gaither spells inside players Letitia Bowen and Too tie Jones, and Augustin. who scored 12 against the Aces, adds speed and depth to the back court. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Point guard Kara Leary is the quarterback of Notre Dame's offense. 
"They have come in and given us depth and versatility," said McGraw. "There is so much we can do with different lineups that we couldn't do last year." 
The freshmen are not the only reason this season has been a smoother run for McGraw and the Irish. Although it is not openly said, the transfer of a pair of players the past two years has bene­fited the team. There are no longer any attitudes just com­petitors. 
"When we came in everyone just forgot about last year," said Morgan. "The bottom line is everyone wants to win and we will do anything for that to happen." 
Bowen has done everything. The junior is second in scoring and first in rebounding. She plays all three positions along the front line and even slips into the back court on occasion. 
"We are much more versatile this season," said Leary. "We have six-foot guards like Letitia and players that can play a number of positions. It creates problems for opponents." 
Although they are 11-4 McGraw points to mistakes against Old Dominian and Seton Hall for why her team is not 12-2. Peering ahead in the schedule shows clear sailing for the Irish. They shouldn't loose a game until the MCC Tournament and then will set their sights on an NCAA bid. 
"Right now we are only look­ing at Butler," said McGraw, in reference to Notre Dame's op­ponent on Saturday. "We need to play hard and keep doing the things we have to this point." 
The freshmen, the seniors, the depth, the chemistry, any­way it stacks up the Irish are winning. And the stoic is hap­pily stuffed in the locker room. 




Problems 
continued from page 28 
tive," MacLeod said. 
"We have been consistent in one sense. Turnovers were a problem last year and they are still a problem this season." 
Coughing up the ball is bad enough. Notre Dame is hacking up vital organs. 
A season-high 34 turnovers crippled the Irish against Ken­tucky and 30 more let a very winnable game at LaSalle slip away. 
Freshman point guard Ad­more White earned the starting job after just three practices. 
"That's Admore, as in add more points and add more as­sists," MacLeod said before the season began. 
And add more.... you know. 
White's adjustment to the col­lege game took a little longer than expected, so MacLeod gave the starting job to senior Brooks Boyer, whose adjust­ment is also taking a little longer than expected. 
So, junior Lamarr Justice 
started at point guard Wednes­day against St. Bonaventure with similar results. 
"We had hoped to have the problem rectified by now," MacLeod said. "But it's not something where we can just snap our fingers and fix it. I wish it was that easy." 
Even with all the ball han­dling problems, the Irish have been within striking distance of some of the nation's top teams. 
Against Arizona in the first­round of the Maui Classic, Notre Dame was within six points with less than four min­utes remaining. But the one-di­mensional offense could carry the weight down the stretch. 
It has been a two-dimensional offense at times, with Monty Williams and Ryan Hoover of­ten sharing the burden. 
Rarely has another player stepped up to fill the cavernous offensive void. 
"We'd like to see more bal­ance in our offense, Monty and Ryan can't do it all alone," MacLeod said. "The forwards need to begin to open things up." 
Sophomore guard Keith 
page 19 

Kurowski opened things up for a while. After missing his en­tire freshman season with a stress fracture in his foot and the first five games this season after November knee surgery. 
He provided some much needed offensive punch after his return, but he is still not 100 percent physically. 
"Keith is not out of the woods yet with his knee," MacLeod said. "He is experiencing things for the first time as a college player and it will take him a while to regain his condition­ing." 
Notre Dame's schedule hasn't done the team any favors. Perenniaf'powers Indiana, Ken­tucky, Arizona have already done their damage, all on the road. 
The Irish return to the Joyce Center this Saturday, where they are a perfect 4-0 this sea­son. 
"We've played 10 of our first 14 games on the road," MacLeod said. "It's never easy to play a team on their home floor, and hopefully our floor will be as good to us." 


Center for Social Concerns 


ffie.)Ctc:o Se""tnm.-r 
May 9 -26, 1994 in Oaxaca, Mexico (leaving time for summer work) Service-learning cosponsored by Maryknoll One credit Theology Spanish not required 
Applications at the CSC 
Information Meeting: Jan. 25, 1994 4:00 PM at the Center (optional) 

··.except Monty Williams, who has been head and shoulders above the crowd. 

Sunday, Jan. 23,7:30 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Saint Mary's students $6; SM's-ND communities $8 
Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in a Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.­5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626. 

Kelly 
continued from page 28 
times. 

"I don't know what other schools you're interested in, Mr. Starr, but I think you can see that no other institution of­fers the academic and athletic opportunities you would receive at Notre... 
"Duke? Well, that's a good school, but. . .Indiana? Sure, most of Bobby Knight's players have been successful in life. but. ..North Carolina? Yes, I know they've been to the Sweet 16 every year since the Recon­struction, but. .. 
"Hello?" 

-
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25.CXlJ Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out~.Print Search Service -$2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to llix Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. W•yne South Bend, IN 4&117 (219] 232-8444 


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 21, 1994 
Distractions aside, Belles are prepared 
By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI 
Spons Writer 
While the events of St. Mary's sesquicentennial may have kept the Belles' out of the comfort of their own gym, the team feels well prepared for Saturday's game at Anderson University. 
Spending the week at the Joyce Center has been a new and unusual experience for the Belles', but the workout has continued to stay intense and focused. 
"It has been a tough week for us," said coach Marvin Wood. "We haven't been in our own gym, but we're making the best of it." 
The Belles' have continued practicing their 2-3 zone play to which they attribute last Saturday's win against Beloit College. Similar to Beloit's team, Anderson's strength is their height. 
"Their scoring comes from the post like Beloit," said fresh­man forward Katy Lalli. "We've been working on the zone. It worked pretty well for us last game." 
The weather conditions af­fected the team's momentum when their Tuesday game against the University of Chicago was canceled and rescheduled for February 2. 
"It was disappointing to be 

cranked up and ready to play and to have changes," said Wood. 
However, the players have taken advantage of the extra practice. 
"The cancellation has given us a week to prepare well for the game against Anderson," said Lalli. 
While this week has been pro­ductive for the Belles, the team lost sophomore guard, Colleen Andrews, to an injured finger which she dislocated at prac­tice. The Belles' are disap­pointed by the loss. but they are confident that the team will cover Andrew's position. 
Saint Mary's swimmers rested and ready to face Hillsdale 
BY CHERYL GILLILAND 
S ons Writer 
This Saturday, the Saint Mary's swimmers hope to up their dual meet record to 2-2 with a victory at Hillsdale. 
The Belles are "looking to make some adjustments this weekend," said head coach Greg Janson, after last week­end's loss to Calvin College. 
Janson explained that last weekend, the Belles were just coming off a hard week at camp and were swimming tired and sore. Janson is looking for that to change this weekend as they face Hillsdale in their fourth dual meet of the season. 
"This week, we are more rested and have more energy," said Janson. ''I'm looking for us to swim a lot fresher." 
Senior co-captain Ellen Kramer. who swims freestyle and breaststroke, agreed. "The training trip really broke us down, but we are feeling much better this week." 
Janson also said that he is looking for strong perfor­mances from sophomore Jill Cooper who will be swimming the butterfly, junior Tara Krull in the freestyle and butterfly, and sophomore Katie Gibbs. 
"Katie mainly swims 
freestyle, but can also swim re­lay positions and perform well in them," said Janson. 
Janson also expects that this weekend's meet will prepare the Belles for next week's dual meets against Kalamazoo and the University of Chicago. 
"No matter how we finish against Hillsdale, I think it will be a good preparation for our next two meets," noted Janson. 
Janson will be looking to see if the speed workouts that the team did in practice this week will pay off in Saturday's meet and the meets to come. Megan Hurley, a senior co-cap­tain who will be swimming the freestyle and butterfly. com­mented that the speed work­outs were helpful. 
"Everyone is more rested, and we know what we have to do," she said. "Now, we are trying to do it faster." 
Coach Janson and his team are optimistic about the meet at Hillsdale and are looking for it to be a stepping stone to greater success in future meets. 
"Last week, our times were slower and that was very dis­couraging," noted Hurley. "We're feeling a lot better this week, and we're thinking more about what we're doing in the water." 




APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Learning at one of nine sites in the Appalachian region 
One-credit Theology 
Information meeting: 


Tues., Jan. 25, 7:30-8:00 PM 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
Work in the fields with migrant workers Assist agencies that serve migrants One-credit Theology Information meeting: Tues. Jan. 25, 8:00-8:30 PM 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
National Service: Institutional Questions and Future Potentials? 
Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Governtment Information meeting: Tues., Jan. 25, 6:30-7:00PM 


Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Jan. 28, 1994 
~ -----·~-­
~-----­



Vin Scully's son killed patrolling earthquake damage 

Associated Press 
FORT TEJON. Calif. 

The son of prominent sports broadcaster Yin Scully was among two men killed in a heli­copter crash Thursday as they patrolled an oil pipeline check­ing for earthquake damage. 
Michael Scully, 33, of Bakersfield, was anengineering supervisor for Four Corners Pipe Line Inc., a subsidiary of Arco Oil Co., said Arco spokesman Al Greenstein. 
Scully was the the passenger in the helicopter. The pilot was not immediately identified pending notification of kin. 
Greenstein said the helicopter apparently was trying to land at an Arco pumping facility about 50 miles north of Los Angeles. 
Scully's father is baseball's longest-tenured broadcaster. Yin Scully, his literate commen­tary and soothing voice an industry trademark, has done play-by-play radio and televi­sion broadcasts for the Los Angeles Dodgers for 44 years. 
He also has broadcast base­ball for NBC and CBS radio, and golf tournaments at the net­work level. 
Robert Preston, who lives near the crash site, said the helicopter didn't sound right as it came over his house and slammed into a hillside near the pumping plant. 
"What tipped me off that 
something was wrong was it didn't have a normal helicopter sound," Preston said. "It had sort of a whining sound like an engine revving and unrevving." 
The crash, reported about 9 
a.m. PST, caused several spot grass and brush fires, the largest of which was about one acre, said Kern County Fire Capt. Mike Cody. 
"It appears the helicopter clipped some power lines, 
impacted with a small ridge about 200 feet tall and hit three quarters of the way up, then crashed down to the base of the ridge," Cody said. 
He said the fire burned the helicopter so badly its iden­tification numbers were oblit­erated. 
The helicopter was owned by 
J.L. Denio Excavating, Trucking and Pipeline of Bakersfield and was flying under contract for Four Corners Pipe Line. 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"1Vewly Remodeled Apartments at Very Affordable Rates" 
• SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS .• NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 
•. ENTRY SECURITY 
• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM ! SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY Now TAKING APPliCATIONS FoR 


'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 


232-8256 

Interested in a Leadership Position? 





~----APnYNow----~ 
for 

Student Activities Board Co-ordinator '94-'95 
HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO GET INVOLVED! 

-Pick up an application at Haggar Desk 
APPLICATIONS DUE MONDAY, jAN. 24TH 

Friday, January 21, 1994  The Observer • SPORTS  page 21  


page 22 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 21, 1994 





University of Notre Dame 
Summer Session 1994 Course List 
•' 
-
The 1994 summer session will begin on Monday, June 20 (enrollment) and end on Wednesday, August 3 (final exams). Some courses-prima­rily in science, mathematics and languages-will begin and end before or after these dates. The summer session Bulletin will contain complete schedule information. The Bulletin will be available at the Summer Session Office (312 Main Bldg.) beginning on Friday, February 11. 
Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 1994 who are eligible to ' return in the fall-must use DART 1) to register for summer courses and 
2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 24. The DART PIN (per­sonal identification number) for summer will be sent to all continuing students in early March. Course call numbers, along with all other course information, will be published in the summer session Bulletin. · 
Aerospace Engineering 

AERO 499. Undergraduate Research 
Mechatical Engineering 

ME 321. Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics 
ME 327. Thermodynamics 
ME 334. Fluid Mechanics 

ME 342. Engineering Economy (London) 
ME 498. Engineering, Society and the International Community (London) 
ME 499. Undergraduate Research 
Aerospace/Mechanical Engineering 
Graduate Independent Study 
AME 598. Adv;~nced St~;dics AME 599. Thesis Direction AME 600. Nonresident Thesis Research AME 699. Research and Dissertation AME 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Ammcan Studies 
AMST 449. Writing Nonfiction 
AMST 498. Special Studies 
AMST 599. Thesis Direction 

AMST 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Anthropology 

ANTH 405. Biological Anthropology ANTH 490. Archaeological Field School ANTH 491. Ethnographic Field Methods and 
Techniques · ANTH 498. Directed Readings 
Architecture 

ARCH 598. Advanced Studies ARCH 700. Nonresident Research 
Art. Art History and Design 
ARHI252. Art Traditions I 

ARHI 461/561. Twentieth Century Art 1900 to 1960 
ARHI 475/575. Directed Readings in Art History 
ARHI 599. Thesis Direction 

ARHI 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ARST 243/443. Metal Casting/Foundry 
ARST 289/489. Silkscreen 

ARST 311/411. Ceramic Sculpture 
ARST 409/509. Ceramics Studio 
ARST 433/533. Painting Studio 
ARST 435W/535W. Painting Workshop 
ARST 499/599. Special Studies 
ARST 585. Photography Studio 
ARST 589. Printmaking Studio 
ARST 676.. Directed Readings 
ARST 696. Thesis Project 
DESN 281S. Graphic Design I 

DESN 470/570. Design of Eric Gill Workshop 
DESN 496S. Special Studies 
Biological Sciences 

BIOS 294. Neotropical Natural History and Management of Central American Resources 
BIOS 494. Directed Readings 

BIOS 499. Undergraduate Research 
DART will be available for summer registration from March 14 to 31 and fro~r, May 2 to June 24. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during these periods; no appointment times are necessary. 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 24, must complete the standard summer session application/ course selection form. 
Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 1994 will be $142 per credit hour plus 
a $30 general fee. 
BIOS 569. Practical Aquatic Biology 
BIOS 599. Thesis Direction 
BIOS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
BIOS 672. Special Problems 
BIOS 699. Research and Dissertation 
BIOS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Business Administration 
ACCT 231. Principles of Accounting I ACCT 232. Principles of Accounting II ACCT 334. Cost Analysis and Control ACCT 371. Financial Accounting Theory and 
Practice I ACCT 476. Introduction to Federal Taxation BA 230. Statistics in Business BA 362. Legal Environment of Business BA 490. Corporate Strategy FIN 231. Business Finance FIN 360. Managerial Economics FIN 361. Business Conditions AnalysisFIN 376. Business Financial Management MGT 231. Principles of Management MGT 240. Computers in Business MGT 475. Human Resource Management MARK 231. Principles of Marketing 
Otemical Engineering 
CHEG 499. Undergraduate Research CHEG 599. Thesis Direction CHEG 600. Nonresident Thesis Research CHEG 699. Research and Dissertation CHEG 700. Nonresident Dissertation Researcth 
Cbemistry and Biochemistry 
CHEM 116. General Chemistry 
CHEM 118. General Chemistry 
CHEM 223. Elementary Organic Chemistry I 
CHEM 223L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory I 
CHEM 224. Elementary Organic Chemistry II 
CHEM 224L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory II 
CHEM 477. Directed Readings 
CHEM 499R. Undergraduate Research 
CHEM 599R. Thesis Direction 
CHEM 694. Directed Readings 
CHEM 699R. Research and Dissertation 
CHEM 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Resea:rch 
Ciw Engineering and Geological ScietneeS 
CE 498. Directed Studies 
CE 598R. Advanced Studies 
CE 599R. Thesis Direction 
CE 600R. Nonresident Thesis Research 
CE 698R. Advanced Topics 
CE 699R. Research and Dissertation 
CE 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
GEOS 499. Undergraduate Research 
Classical and Oriental Languages and Uteratures 
COAJ 200. Intensive Japanese COAJ 340. Contemporary Japanese Culture COCG 200. Intensive Greek COCG 500. Intensive Greek 
COCL 200. Intensive Latin COCL 500. Intensive Latin COSS 402. Introduction to Syriac Grammar COSS 452. Introduction to Syriac Literature COSS 500. Introduction to Syriac Grammar COSS 500A. Introduction to Syriac·Literature COSS 500B. Syriac Readings in the Classical Period COSS 520. Syriac Readings in the Classical Period 
Communication and Theatre 
GOTH 201. Basics of Film and Television GOTH 205. Introduction to Theatre GOTH 361/561. Introduction to Film and Video 
Production COTH 410/510. History of Film I GOTH 421/521. Acting Workshop COTH 460/560. Television Production GOTH 493A. Broadcast Internship (WNDU) GOTH 499. Research for the Advanced 
Undergraduate Student GOTH 598. Special Studies GOTH 599. Thesis Direction GOTH 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Computer Applications 
CAPP 243. Introduction to Computers CAPP 249. Introduction to Basic: Why People Do 
the Things They Do CAPP 315. Management Information Systems CAPP 497. Special Projects CAPP 498. Departmental Tutorial CAPP 499. Special Topics 
Computer Science and Engineering 
CSE 221. Logic Design and Sequential Circuits 
CSE 232. Advanced Programming 
CSE 498. Directed Studies 
CSE 499. Undergraduate Research 
CSE 598. Advanced Studies 
CSE 599. Thesis Direction 
CSE 600. Nonresident Research 
CSE 698. Advanced Topics 
CSE 699. Research and Dissertation 
CSE 700. Nonresident Dissertation 
Economics 
ECON 224. Principles of Economics II 
ECON 225. Introduction to Economics 
ECON 421. Money, Credit and Banking 
ECON 498. Special Studies 
ECON 599. Thesis Direction ECON 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ECON 697. Special Topics ECON 698. Directed Readings ECON 699. Research and Dissertation 
ECON 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Electrical Engineering 
EE 222. Introduction to Electrical Science EE 224. Electrical Circuits I EE 232. Introduction to Electronic Circuits EE 242. Electronics I EE 498. Directed Studies EE 499. Undergraduate Research EE 598R. Advanced Studies EE 599. Thesis Direction EE 600. Nonresident Research 
-~--~-~-~~----------­
Friday, January 21, 1994 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

EE 698. Advanced Topics EE 699. Research and Dissertation EE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research Engineering Nondepartmental EG 498. Research Experience for Undergraduates English ENGL 301W. Writing Short Fiction ENGL 319E. 20th-Century Literary Autobiography ENGL 322. Readings in the Novel ENGL 328A. Children's Literature ENGL 409B. Writing Non-Fiction Prose ENGL 440. Shakespeare's Tragedies ENGL 470. Modern British Literature ENGL 471. Contemporary British Drama ENGL 487. The American Novel ENGL 498. Directed ReadingsENGL 500. English for Non-Native Speakers­Section 1 ENGL 540. ShakespeareENGL 589A. The Puritan Imagination in American Literature ENGL 598. Special Studies ENGL 599. Thesis Direction ENGL 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ENGL 699. Research and Dissertation ENGL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research German and Russian Languages and Literatures GE 101. Beginning German I GE 102. Beginning German II GE 103. Beginning German II I GE 240. Conversational German GE 500. German Graduate Reading Government and International Studies GOVT 343. Political Theory GOVT 400. Contemporary International Problems GOVT 406. Congress and Foreign Policy GOVT 473. The Changing Basis of Global Society GOVT 497. Undergraduate Directed Readings GOVT 599. Thesis Direction GOVT 600. Nonresident Thesis Research GOVT 692. Directed Readings-Government GOVT 696. Examination Preparation GOVT 699. Research and Dissertation GOVT 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research History HIST 323. History of the Great Cities of Europe HIST 366. Fun, Fun, Fun? Pursuing Happiness in Modern America HIST 368. Native Americans and Europeans in North America HIST 433. Modern British Monarchy, 1660-1992 HIST 470. America in the 1960s and Beyond HI~ 149U. lJirectea Heaamgs HIST 590. Directed Readings HIST 599. Thesis Direction HIST 600. Nonresident Thesis Research HIST 697. Directed Readings HIST 699. Research and Dissertation HIST 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research Program in the History and Philosophy of Science HPS 599. Thesis Direction HPS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research HPS 603. Directed Readings HPS 604. Directed Readings Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies liPS 214. Social Movements: Crossnational and Transnational liPS 396/496. Directed Readings liPS 427/527. Conflict Resolution: Theory and Practice liPS 429/529. The International Human Rights Movement liPS 445/545. Education, Multiculturalism and Democracy liPS 488/588. Contemporary Issues in International Conflict and Cooperation liPS 501. Colloquium on Cross-Cultural Understanding liPS 530. Peace Studies Laboratory liPS 599. Thesis Direction liPS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research liPS 693. Directed Readings liPS 695. Field Experiences Materials Science and Engineering MSE 225. Science of Engineering Materials MSE 499. Undergraduate Research MSE 598. Advanced Studies MSE 599. Thesis Direction MSE 600. Nonresident Thesis Research MSE 698. Advanced Topics  MSE 699. Research and Dissertation MSE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research Mathematics MATH 104. Finite Mathematics MATH 105. Elements of Calculus I MATH 106. Elements of Calculus II MATH 126. Calculus II MATH 211. Computer Programming and Problem Solving MATH 499. Undergraduate Reading MATH 511. Computer Programming and Problem Solving MATH 553. Topics in Discrete Mathematics: MATH 698. Advanced Graduate Reading MATH 699. Research and Dissertation MATH 700. Nonresident Dissertation Reserurch Medieval Institute Ml 470/570. Medieval Latin Ml 497. Directed Readings Ml 517. Paleography Ml 597. Directed Readings Ml 599. Thesis Direction Ml 600. Nonresident Thesis Research Ml 699. Research and Dissertation Ml 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research Music MUS 222. Introduction to Symphonic Musitc MUS 310/510. Piano MUS 311/511. Organ MUS 313. Guitar MUS 314/514. Voice MUS 316/516. Cello MUS 498. Undergraduate Special Studies MUS 598. Special Studies MUS 599. Thesis Direction MUS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research Philosophy PHIL 201. Introduction to Philosophy PHIL 215. Education, Multiculturalism and DemocracyPHIL 221. Philosophy of Human Nature PHIL 245. Medical Ethics PHIL 246. Ethics and Business PH 1L261. Philosophy of Religion PHIL 498. Directed Readings PHIL 603. Directed Readings PHIL 699. Research and Dissertation PHIL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research Physics PHYS 221. Physics I PHYS 222. Physics II PHYS 499. Undergraduate Research PHYS 598. Special Topics PHYS 699. Research and Dissertation PHYS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research Program of liberal Studies PLS 477. Directed Readings PLS 501. Milton's Paradise Lost PLS 502. St. Bonaventure, The Journey of the Mind to God PLS 503. Moral Development Education PLS 504. Plato's Republic PLS 505. Crime and Punishment, Cruel or Usual PLS 506. Teilhard De Chardin, The Phenomenon of Man PLS 507. Newman, The Idea of aUniversity PLS 508. Joyce, Dubliners PLS 509. Gray and Wordsworth Psychology PSY 341. Experimental Psychology 1: Statistics PSY 341 L. Experimental Psychology 1: Laboratory PSY 351. Child Development PSY 354. Abnormal Psychology PSY 397. Special Studies PSY 453. Behavioral Pediatrics PSY 487/593. Critical Thinking PSY 497. Special Studies PSY 560. Research Methodology PSY 561. Foundations of Counseling PSY 562. Group Dynamics PSY 663. Psychopathology PSY 678. Seminar in Family Therapy PSY 691 A. Advanced Spec1allssues in Counseling PSY 691 B. Advanced Issues in Statistics and Research Design PSY 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research  Romance Languages and Utmltures LLRO 410. "Mood" and "Voice" in Narrative Fiction ROFR 101. Beginning French I ROFR 102. Beginning French II ROFR 103. Intermediate French ROFR 104. Conversational French ROFR 399. Special Studies ROFR 500. French Graduate Reading ROFR 597. Directed Readings ROFR 599. Thesis Direction ROFR 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ROFR 697. Special Studies ROIT 101. Beginning Italian I ROIT 102. Beginning Italian II ROIT 103. Intermediate Italian ROIT 104. Conversational Italian ROIT 399. Special Studies ROPO 500. Portuguese Graduate Reading ROSP 101. Beginning Spanish I ROSP 102. Beginning Spanish II ROSP 103. Intermediate Spanish ROSP 104. Conversational Spanish ROSP 399. Special Studies ROSP 493. Film and Literature of Latin America ROSP 500. Spanish Graduate Reading ROSP 597. Directed Readings ROSP 599. Thesis Direction ROSP 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ROSP 697. Special Studies Science NondepanDnental SC 498. ·Research Experience for Undergraduates SC 598. Advanced Studies Sociology SOC 102. Introduction to Sociology SOC 214. Social Movements SOC 220. Social Psychology SOC 232. Social Problems SOC 242. Marriage and Family SOC 249. Introduction to Bas1c: Why People Do the Things They Do SOC 307. Issues of Prejudice and Social Inequality In the United States SOC 319. Sociology of Sport SOC 435. Deviant Behavior SOC 498. Directed Readings SOC 599. Thesis Direction SOC 600. Nonresident Thesis Research SOC 655. Directed Readings SOC 659. Sociology of Education SOC 699. Research and Dissertation SOC 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research Theology THEO 200. Foundations of Theology: BiblicaV Historical-Section 1 THEO 200. Foundations of Theology: BiblicaV Historical-Section 2 THEO 229. Science and Theology THEO 250. Roads to God THEO 255. God Among God's People THEO 498. Directed Readings THEO 499. Undergraduate Research THEO 500. Introduction to Graduate Studies THEO 500A. Themes and Texts in the Catholic Tradition THEO 502. Judaism THEO 513. Pauline Theology THEO 516. The Epistle to the Hel>rews THEO 523. Historical Theology-Modem THEO 527. Intensive Course: The Theology of Thomas Aquinas THEO 530. Fundamentals of Systematic TheologyTHEO 531. Revelation THEO 532. Christology THEO 533. Ecclesiology THEO 534. Doctrine of God THEO 537. Sacramental Theology THEO 539. History of SfiritualityTHEO 549. Sociology o Religion THEO 552. Interpersonal Ethics THEO 560. Liturgical History THEO 561. Christian Initiation THEO 562. Eucharist THEO 563. Liturgical Prayer THEO 564. Liturgical Year THEO 565A. Liturgy and Ethics THEO 566C. Funerals THEO 572. Ritual Studies THEO 573L. Comprehensive Review­Liturgical Studies THEO 573T. Comprehensive Review-Theological Studies THEO 574F. Liturgy and Ministry THEO 590C. History of Liturgical Music THEO 591 A. Liturgical Law THEO 598. Directed Readings THEO 599. Thesis Direction THEO 600. Nonresident Thesis Research THEO 699. Research and Dissertation THEO 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research  

-
-----~---------------------~--------------------------------~-------------­
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 21, 1994 

... 

Irish men's tennis to wtn sprtng season openers 
The Notre Dame men's tennis enters the we.ekend as a vorite to win both of its tches against Miami (OH) 
Northern Illinois. Dame will face Miami 
at 2:00 and Northern Illi­at 7:00 on Saturday in the Pavilion. 
Miami (OH), led by seniors vid Fagen, David Zinn, John and Eric Seltenrich, fin­d last season as one of the p six or seven teams in the idwest and consequently 
mises to keep a talented team busy. I am genuinely concerned 
Saturday," stated Notre arne head coach Bob Bayliss, Miami will be a tough open­
" 
Though not as deep as Mi-Northern Illinois, led by Engel. Sunu Thomas and Caldwell, will be a tough 
Notre Dame. 
"I hope the team can get Mi­i under their belt," com­ented Coach Bayliss, "and enough left to face a chal­engin"g Northern Illinois 
The Irish will unfortunately ave to fight off Miami and '"ln.~+\.~~~ Illinois without team-senior Alan Lopez and 
1tteshn11an Mike Mathers. 
Lopez is currently in Central America repre­,~~ ......,,. the El Salvador Davis team. Mike Mathers, on other hand, is sidelined by 
strained nerve in his neck. 



Jordan admits he's not ready for majors 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
Michael Jordan, acknowledg­ing that his improbable attempt to join the Chicago White Sox is viewed "as off the wall," said Thursday his skills are improv­ing but not yet ready for the major leagues. 
''I'm trying. I'm not good enough right now but I still got a couple of more days," Jordan said at a news conference where he and Hall of Farner Reggie Jackson were promoting a line of baseball cards. 
"A lot of people may think this is off the wall and maybe it is. but I'm doing something I choose to do. That is following one of the dreams I had when I was a kid." 
The White Sox said earlier they will determine in a couple of weeks whether to invite Jor­dan to spring training. He's been working on his hitting and fielding five days a week at an indoor facility, and manager Gene Lamont watched earlier this week. 
If the White Sox thought he showed enough promise, Jor­dan said he would be willing to go to the minors for seasoning and work. 
Jordan, who hasn't played baseball since high school, reit­erated that he and his father always wanted him to play pro­fessional baseball. 
"My father and I talked about it two years ago," he said. "He thought I was still young enough to give it a try. You never know. He always wanted me to play professional base­ball. He always thought I would. In retrospect I did, too. 
"But my basketball skills ex­celled and I never pursued it in college even though I had the opportunity to play baseball in college." 
Jordan's father was murdered last summer and a couple of months later Michael an­nounced his retirement from the Chicago Bulls after leading them to three straight NBA ti­tles. 
Jackson said the odds were against Jordan playing major league baseball. He added it's the effort and the memory of his father's wishes that are making the venture worth­while. 
"I don't think Michael is con­cerned about embarrassing himself and I don't think he's concerned about what someone thinks," Jackson said. "He has a treaty, a bond, a letter to an­swer, a promise to fulfill and he is going to do it whatever the consequences are. 
"Whether I think he can hit a breaking ball or what he's go­ing to look like to see a 95 mph Roger Clemens fast ball under his chin, he's going to get through that." 

When he left the Bulls, Jordan said he had nothing left to prove and was tired of the con­stant spotlight and intrusions. Now his yearning to play base­ball has made him the center of attention -and in some in stances ridicule -again. 
'Tm not saying I'm walking into this to be Reggie Jackson or Barry Bonds," Jordan said. ''I'm looking at this as an op­portunity to overcome a feat that a lot of people don't think I'm capable of doing." 
He said he's not trying to be a novelty act and he would "do other things or take it else­where" if he thought he was interfering. 


t 1993 The Olive Gorder'l Restaurants. 

HERE'S ACOURSE THAT COMBINES ITALIAN AND ECONOMICS. 
i 
I I 

i. 

ALL YOU CAN EAT 
SPAGHETTI, GARDEN SALAD, & BREADSTICKS 

$5.95 
TUESDAYS, AFTER 4 PM 
. ~~ :~.:-~ -~-­
-~
/ ~-~-·'>A!$.~~--,, ·-. ·-,~~ '" 
-~"" 

I. ·""':;;.;As;.~:/::;·~: ~-iit!t _jj 
~...................... 
"-· 

Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dame or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your ID and we'll give you all-you­can-eat spaghetti with your choice of marinara, tomato or meat sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden salad and ~•
0/..•.WJ
warm garlic breadsticks. It's oil  --,~~~  
just $5.95. And you don't hove  
,to be a math major to figure  ~  •  •  
out that that's a great deal.  lTAl.IAN  l<l''l!,\1 lf<Y\ I  

WHERE i\lJ.THE REs1· OF li!\l \' Is \c)t ~Rs: 
• Opposite University Park Mall, 277-6503. 

Friday, January 21, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
Harding enjoys training despite distractions 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 

Tonya Harding whirled around the ice Thursday, smil­ing, laughing and nailing five triple axels as if unconcerned by fresh allegations that she encouraged and helped plot the attack on Olympic rival Nancy Kerrigan. 
A crowd of more than 100 fans, cheering, whistling and shouting "Go Tonya," watched Harding skate brilliantly at a shopping mall rink for an hour while prosecutors from Port­land and Detroit met with at­torneys for two of the four men arrested in the case. 
At the same time, Detroit de­tectives spoke with the FBI to review its investigation. No fed­eral charges will be filed in the case, FBI spokesman Bart Gori said. 
A Multnomah County grand jury, meeting to determine whether to indict Harding along with the four men arrested in the alleged conspiracy, heard testimony from Harding's coach, Diane Rawlinson, pri­vate investigator Gary Crowe, minister Eugene Saunders and other witnesses. 
Three of the four people ar­rested -bodyguard Shawn Eckardt, alleged hit man Shane Minoaka Stant, and alleged get­away car driver Derrick Smith -are negotiating with prose­cutors about plea bargains in exchange for their cooperation, a source close to the case told The Associated Press. 
Jeff Gillooly, Harding's ex­husband, wasn't trying to cut a deal by testifying against her, the source said. 
In Colorado Springs, Colo., the 
U.S. Figure Skating Association bl!-cked off plans to vote on whether to keep Harding on the team. 
The Amateur Sports Act of 1978, the federal law governing the USOC and its member fed­erations, states that any sports body trying to oust a team member must "provide for notice and an opportunity for a hearing before declaring such individual ineligible to partici­pate." 
"We are trying to double­check all our actions in terms of the act," said Kristin Matta, a USFSA spokeswoman. 
"The vote is not a done deal," she said. "A vote is not set, a vote is not scheduled." 
Harding held her first public workout since winning the U.S. Figure Skating Championships on Jan. 8. 
"I felt better today than I have in a few days. I'm sleeping better," she said. She insisted she has no intention of quitting the Olympic team, though the investigation and tension are hurting her preparation "a lot" for the Winter Games in Nor­way next month. 
"My skating is my life," she said. "I go out there, and it's an out for me. I love it. That's the only time I'm getting any en­joyment right now. 
I have bad days where I can't think and concentrate. I hope it can get back to normal soon. I went out there and I landed ev­ery single one of my jumps." 
In Stoneham, Mass., Kerrigan skated for more than an hour Thursday. 
''I'm in very good shape most­ly because he had such bad aim," Kerrigan said on Thursday night's "Eye to Eye with Connie Chung" on CBS. 
Harding refused to respond to the latest allegations made by her bodyguard, Eckardt, whose testimony to authorities pro­vided the basis for the warrant and arrest of Gillooly. 
Eckardt, whose credibility has been assailed by numerous ac­quaintances, claimed in an in­terview published Thursday that an impatient Harding com­plained about the delay in dis­abling Kerrigan days before the Jan. 6 assault in Detroit. 
"You know, you need to stop screwing around with this and get it done," Harding told Eckardt, according to the inter­view in The Oregonian news­paper. 
Eckardt also told the newspa­per in a three-hour session that Gillooly offered a $10,000 U.S. Figure Skating Association check as a bonus if the attack on Kerrigan was carried out immediately. 
Harding spoke about the plot in a conversation with Eckardt at her practice rink near Port­land while alleged hit man Shane Minoaka Stant was in Massachusetts trying to find an opportunity to attack Kerrigan at a rink near Bostol}, the newspaper said. 
Eckardt suggested she call Stant, but Harding replied, "No, I want you to do it," the body­guard was quoted as saying. 
According to Eckardt, who has confessed to his role in the alleged plot, Gillooly showed him a $10,000 check from the USFSA and said, "Tell these guys I'll give them a $10,000 bonus if they'll-get it done," the Oregonian reported. 
Eckardt's new allegations ex­panded on statements in an af­fidavit, filed by a sheriff's deputy, that led to Gillooly's ar­rest. 
They further implicated her in the conspiracy, and may have jeopardized her spot on the U.S. Olympic team. 




Come out of the cold and up to 

Featuring: 
Victoria's 
Real 

Secret 
With Toob 
Jan 22nd 9pm to 12:00 
Brought to you by the Student Union Board 

page 26 The Observer • HOCKEY Friday, January 21, 1994 

-Irish face key CCHA matchups 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team resumes play in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association with two road games this week­end in Ohio at Kent State on Friday, and at Ohio State 0n Saturday. 
The Irish, (8-14-2; 6-10-2 in CCHA) in 7th place in the CCHA, are coming off a week­end in which they upset 20 th ranked Bowling Green 2-1 and then fell to number one ranked Michigan 6-1. 
"We played five really good defensive periods of hockey." said Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer. "We're looking for­ward to winning two games this weekend." 
To increase the Irish's incen­tive for this weekend. a win would give Schafer 100 in his six plus seasons at Notre Dame. Kent comes into Friday's con­test with a 5-10-1 in the CCHA and in 9th place in the confer­ence. They defeated the Irish on the road in two close games January 2 and 3. Junior Dean Sylvester is Kent's leading scor­er with 16 goals and 13 assists. Sophomore David Dartsch (lOG, 17A) and senior Bob Krosky (9G, 12A) are two more offen­sive threats for Kent. -Junior Mario Lacasse and senior Scott Shaw handle the goaltending duties for KSU. 
"They're a hard hitting team with an opportunistic style of play," commented Schafer. "We're both newcomers to the league, so we need to do well against them." 
"We lost two close games a couple of weeks ago to them and it was a big setback. We need to turn the tables." 
"There is definitely a revenge factor involved," added Irish senior captain Matt Osiecki. "This is a real important game for us." 
As for Saturday's game at Ohio State, Notre Dame's ap­pearance in town will mean that over 4,000 fans will pack the Ohio Sate Fairgrounds to see the last place Buckeyes (2­13-2) battle the Irish. 
Ohio State normally plays their games at the Ice Rink on campus, but the increased in­terest in the game necessitates the change of venue. 
Although the Buckeyes are in last place, they have played all the CCHA teams close, includ­ing a 3-3 tie last week at Lake Superior State. Notre Dame scrambled to beat Ohio State twice in come from behind wins earlier in the season. Notre Dame leads the series 12-4-1. 
OSU is led by sophomore for­ward Joe Sellers (7G, 7A), ju­nior center Steve Richards (2G, 12A) and senior forward Ron White (8G, 5A). The goaltend­ing duties are split by sopho­mores Tom Askey and Kurt Brown. 
"It will be another close match," said Schafer. "The con­test will be physical and we'll have our ice bags full because we expect a tough match." 
"We're going to take one game at a time and see what happens," said Osiecki.Notre Dame will rely on its defense to secure two wins. Osiecki, and sophomores Matt Bieck, Jeremy Coe bolster the defense in front of the Irish's goaltender. 
Speaking of goalies, sopho­more Wade Salzman had the best performance of his career last Friday against Bowling Green, but lost the next night against Michigan. Senior Greg Louder will get the starting nod on Friday, while Saturday's goalie is undecided. 
"Our goalies have all had their shining moments," commented Schafer. "But they've had their bad ones too." 
Notre Dame's offensive pro­duction comes from sopho­mores Jaime Ling (lOG, 18 A), Brent Lamppa (6G, 6A) and Jamie Morshead (5G, 7 A). Freshmen forwards Terry Lorenz and Tim Harberts have chipped in with 12 and 11 points respectively. 
"We need every single one of our players to play well," con­tinued Schafer. "We don't have a dominant player that can carry us if we don't play well." 
These games carry important CCHA playoff implications for the Irish. A sixth place finish in the conference means home ice advantage in the playoffs. 
"We need two wins so we can try and gain home ice advan­tage, and then we'll go from there," concluded Osiecki. 


This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 

HOUSES FOR RENT 1994-95  Saturday, January 22 _-­~ Notre Dame Men''s Tenn~ .........___JV"{J' vs. Miami (OH)/N. Illinois 2:00 pm/7:00 pm Eck Pavilion Notre Dame Women's Basketball ® vs. Butler y7:30pm JACC Arena  
4-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers Call Laurie McKelvey 287-4989  
DUNK 'EM ALL Come dunk your favorite Notre Dame personality. Fifty cents for 5 tosses. All proceeds benefit Special Olympics 9 p.m. Bob Bayliss, Men's Tennis Coach 9:30p.m. Judy Hutchinson, BP Rector 10 p.m. Bill Kirk, Student Affairs 10:30 p.m. David Prentkowski, Food Services 11 p.m. Kathy Royer, Center for Social Concerns 11:30 p.m. Major Roger Norfolk, ND ROTC with Captain Stephen Tyler and Sergeant ]ames Austin 12:30 a.m. Frank Flynn, Student Body President 1 a.m. Bill Kempf, Irish Guard 1:30 a.m. Jeff Gerber, Bengal Bouts Champion 2 a.m. Andy Budzinski, Leprecha;u~n~.....~~"a ~-­The Late Night Olympics Dunk Tank Friday, January 214r.P*''~~,~,,\ ~,1&¢ l:t9 p.m. -­3 a.m. Sponsored by The Observer  



It's time to stop grabbing yourselfl 
You're 211 
Love, 

Shena P and 3 West 


Sophomores! 
Interested in beinJI the JPW Chairperson? 
t 
I 
~ 
f 
,l 
I 
I 
~ 
Pick up applications at the LaFortune Info Desk Jan. 22-26 Applications Due Jan. 27 
Friday, January 21, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 27 SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON ... 
CRIMINOLOii,'/ AI f3;00,

4E.EZ,'WHA1Til DAY. THAD 
E:I/E. RY S/N6LE ONE MARKSMANSHIP AT 'l;oo, Of MY CLilSSES. ABE-RRANT PS YCHOLOU!'/ M -ro:OO, AND 
lllc11CS foR MoDE'J~N WARFARE AT \i:OD 

\31JT GIRL":. Da~T GH AI'\'{ T()'{S W\-\E\'11\.\Ei GROIN !J?. WOMEN JUST BU'i CLOTJ.lES AND st\oES. 1-\<JW BORIN.<:,. I CA!{r WMT 

\-laW SA\) IJI'ITIL l'M OLD 
H'\OVG\-1 \0 
''1'\JntR AROVN.D.'' 
!ll ~ 
DAVE KELLETT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34lndian craft 54 Straight from 35 Suffix with diet the shoulder 
1 David Bowie's or planet 57 Bear up? 
model wife 36 Bush Attorney 58 Kuwaiti ruler 
5 Famed Dublin General William 59 Get-of one's theater own medicine37 Become misty 10 Terrier of fiction 60 Go smoothly 38 Computer14Canceled &1 Actresssymbol15 Pen Thompson39 "How was-·16 Paula of "CBS 62 Kind of situation know?"
This Morning" &3 Noted Ferrara 40 Buy a round 17 Burgeon 
family 18 "Read my lips" 
41 Cultural: Prefix 

declaration 42 1987 Costner 20 Never thriller DOWN 22 Actress Graff of 44 Carried on 
1 Swenson of 
"Mr. Belvedere" 45 PC operator 
"Benson" 23 It's forbidden 46 Country 2 Satirist Sahl 24 It may be blind ballroom? 
3 Attic contest 26 Veteran sailor 47 Alamogordo's 4 ''I'm not 29 Polite refusal county surprised!" 33 Montreal street 50 "Jack Sprat 5 Storefront sight sign could-" & Headache easer, for short 7 Twining stem ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE a Riviera season 9 Material for archers' bows 
10 Rhododendron 29 Complain 44 Mediterranean 50 Sufficient, once 11 ---Coburg relentlessly to vessel 51 Lippa Lippi et 
(former duchy) 
30 Strauss's "Eine 46 Ezio Pinza and al. 12 "-He Kissed -in others 
52 Didion's "Play It

Me" (1963 hit) Venedig" --Lays"
47 Singles13 Addie's husband 31 Jockey Julie 
48 Tony Musante 53 Chaucer piece •in "As I Lay 32 Religious council 
TV series 55 Antonio or Juan 
Dying" 34--d'Alene,

19 Church gift 49 Novelist 56 Conductor de 
Idaho 

Bagnold Waart
37 Splitting tool 

24 Dunking item 38 "I can't go on!" Hi-=-1-~:.:..fii-.:=::~~.!.!..J~~..j..;..~~ 25 Over 40 Spinks 
lver Get ~omebody Total~ Wasted!
Get answers \... any three clues 
26 Polio fighter defeater, 1988 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
27 Lyris! of myth 41 Deserve 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
28 "This way" sign 43 Roman Eos 





Featuring: 
Victoria'$ 
~at 
Secret With Toob 

January 22 in the Lafortune Ballroom 9 pm to 12:00 
Pressure surrounds them. Competition divides them. Glory unites them. 
The Program 
Playing Friday and Saturday January 21 and 22 In the Cushing Auditorium At 8 pm and 10:30 pm Admission $2 



< 
.. 
• 
SPORTS 
page 28 Friday, January 21, 1994 
'I d 
l 
Hello, 
Mr. Starr 
What's not to like? 


Tf.ho~ -~­
in the home of-·· Prepp Starr. the most coveted high school basketball player in the nation . 
He finds the phone beneath a 
JASON KELLY clutter of drool-stained recruiting 
JOCK STRIP letters. The call is from Notre .____________. Dame, trying to lure the superstar to South Bend. 
"Mr. Starr, it's time for you to make an important decision about your future. 
"Where you decide to continue your education and your basketball career will chart the course for the rest of your life. 
"What's that? You want to know what possible rea­son you would have for coming to Notre Dame. 
"Most of our recruits have that reaction. That's why we want to take this opportunity to point out the posi­tive side of the Notre Dame basketball experience. 
"Number one, our season is usually over before 
Hockey Ric Schafer and the Irish face ofT against Kent State and Ohio State in key CCHA weekend matchups. see page 26 
answer' 
Coach John MacLeod 
and the Irish have problems alore. .. 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Analysis leads to frustration not solution. 
If there was a solution, you can bet they would have tried it by now. But there certainly is frus­
tration. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team limps to the halfway point of the season 
mired in the same old prob­lems. Turnovers. Poor shooting. In­
consistent effort. 
"I don't have the answer," Irish coach John MacLeod said. It's not for a lack of looking. 
MacLeod has tried different lineups, 

different defenses and different offenses. Only the result has stayed the same. The 5-9 midseason mark could have been 
at least .500 with a few breaks. Losses to Duquesne and St. Bonaventure numbed the excitement of last week's upset of No. 25 Mis­
souri. Hope whisked away with the winter wind. 
"The Missouri game was not a fluke, we had a solid effort throughout," MacLeod said. "But the only way we'll be a good team is if we get a full 
blown effort every game." 
It was two months ago that the Irish-swelled with preseason (and premature) belief-made public its goal of making the NCAA Tournament. 
That goal is proving to be as elusive as a field goal. 
"We still have scoring droughts where we don't score for four or five minutes and then we'll have a stretch when we're very produc­
see PROBLEMS I page 19 

-~-~"----~-------··~~~...,., ........... ""'.._,., 
WO:>~~EN'S REPOHT: ~ec page 18 ; 
' '... -~"· .........~-~.....-. ......................_~ ~-~­
spring break. Most schools that covet your services "A conference? We play in what you could call can't make that claim because they will probably be 'America's Conference.' involved in post-season play. "Most people call us an 'independent,' but actually 
"Oh. you want the challenge of playing in the NCAA we're quite dependent. Dependent on other teams to Tournament? decide when and where they want to play us. 
"Well, with your talent you could be the person to Otherwise we wouldn't have much of a schedule. return the Notre Dame basketball team to the "Television? Well, let's just say you won't have to Promised Land. worry about the bright lights getting in your eyes. 
"That is, if you can talk three or four of your friends "We signed a deal with NBC to televise a few of our from the Nike Camp into coming here also. home games every year, but mostly we're on "Cold weather? That's not a problem because we SportsChannel. Their lights aren't quite as bright. don't spend much of the winter in South Bend. "ALL of our games are on the radio. "Instead, we play in warm places like California or "Need I even mention Notre Dame's academic repu­North Carolina. This year, we even went to Hawaii. tation? I'm sure you've heard us talk about it many "Sure, we play home games once in a while, but nobody seems to notice. see KELLY I page 19 
Inside SPORTS 

Men's Tennis Andy Zurcher and the Irish men's tennis team open their spring season this weekend. 
see page 24 
Fencing Coach Mike DeCicco and the Notre Dame fencing teams travel to Wayne State. 
see page 25 










