------~--------.. 

Friday, AprilS, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.ll9 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Holtz: belief brings success Vanier to receive ND 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
humanitarian award 
News Writer Special to The ObseiVer 1950. He studied philosophy
Believing in yourself is a ma­and theology in France for thejor key for success, according Jean Vanier, founder of the next ten years, obtained a doc­to football coach Lou Holtz. 
international l'Arche communi­toral degree in philosophy from "You can't let anything in this ties for the mentally handi­the Institut Catholique in Paris,world get you down," Holtz told capped, will 'receive the third ·and joined the faculty of St.
an audience of faculty, stu­
annual Notre Dame Award for Michael's University in Toronto. 
dents, and parents. "You can't international humanitarian ser­In August 1964 he invited two wallow in self-pity." 
vice in a ceremony at 7 p.m. mentally handicapped men to
Holtz emphasized seven 
April 18 in Stepan Center. live with him in a small house
things that people can do to The award ceremony, to he had purchased in Trosly­
help them attain goals. 
which the public Is welcome, Brueil, about 15 miles n_orth of"Decide what you want to do, will include an ecumenical Paris. Their home became theput a time limit on it, determine prayer service featuring the first l'Arche community. 
the people you're going to work music of Notre Dame's Folk "Obviously Raphael andwith, determine the odds you're Choir; the presentation of the Phillipe (his housemates) need­
going to have to overcome, 
award by University President ed me," Vanier said later, "andidentify the skills and informa­Edward Malloy; and a lecture very quickly I saw that I needed tion needed to accomplish the by Vanier. A reception will fol­them. They called forth some­goals, have a plan, and then low. thing inside of me that my stu­determine what's in it for me," The Notre Dame Award was dents had not. In the Navy, Ihe said. 
established in 1992, in had been taught to be very ef­Holtz, a nationally-renowned celebration of the University's ficient. In the realm of philoso­
inspirational speaker, de­
Sesquicentennial, to honor per­phy, I had been taught to be
scribed himself as "not a 
sons "within and without the very understanding and to beleader, a non-athlete, a C and D Catholic Church, citizens of ev­intelligent. But Raphael andstudent, and someone who had 
ery nation, whose religious Phillipe were teaching me
never had a date or kissed a faith has quickened learning, something else. About personal girl in high school.' 
whose learning has endangered relationships, about mutualPeople must set high stan­deeds, and whose deeds give trust, about love. Very quickly, dards for themselves, he said. 
witness to God's kingdom I found that I was changing
"No one should have a higher among us." It has been given under their guidance." 
standard for you than you 
previously to Mother Teresa of Since those days, Vanier, who should have for yourself," he Calcutta and former President still lives in Trosly-Brueil, hassaid. "You have to have the 
Jimmy Carter and his wife, written more than twenty
feeling that you want to do 
Rosalynn. books, conducted numeroussomething with your life. Don't Vanier was born September retreats and conferences, andlet your self-image and self-es­10, 1928, in Geneva, lecture-d to a variety of interna­teem plummet." 
Switzerland. The son of a for­tional audiences on communityPeople must also meet the 
mer Canadian governor gen­with mentally handicapped
needs of other people for com­
eral, he entered Dartmouth people. L'Arche (French for
plete self-fulfillment, according Naval College in England when "the Ark," a biblical symbol ofto Holtz. 
he was 13 years old. In 1945 deliverance and refuge) com­"You control your destiny by he joined the British navy, munities have now been estab­the choices you make," he said. 
transferring three years to the lished in more than 16 nations 
Canadian navy, from which he 
see HOLTZ I page 4 resigned his commission in see AWARD I page 4 


Acting premier killed after suspicious crash 
By PAULINE JELINEK Brent Beardsley, a U.N. peace­by members of Rwanda's presi­Associated Press keeper there, was quoted as dential guard along with three saying by Canadian Press. He Cabinet ministers. There were NAIROBI, Kenya said U.N. peacekeepers had unconfirmed reports of other 
Rampaging troops reportedly been shot at twice and returned U.N. personnel missing, Sills killed Rwanda's acting premier fire. said. and as many as 11 U.N. soldiers There were conflicting re­Gueye said, however, the Thursday during fierce fighting ports on the casualties among three Belgian military advisers touched off by the deaths of the the 2,500 U.N. peacekeepers in who were kidnapped and ear­presidents of Rwanda and the Central African country. lier reported dead were safe. Burundi in a suspicious plane Gueye said 11 Belgian U.N. U.N. sources said they were crash. soldiers were found killed among 13 members of the 
Reports from Rwanda's capi­Thursday after they were kid­Belgian military batallion who 
tal. Kigali, were sketchy and it napped Wednesday by elements were taken to a military camp 
was not clear who was involved of the presidential guard. The in Kigali. The whereabouts of 
in the clashes or who was in 11 were trying to make their the other 10 were not known, 
control of the capital. Amid the way to the site of the plane and there was no definite word 
violence, three Cabinet minis­crash to try to determine its on who abducted them. 
ters were reported abducted cause, he said. Two Ghanaian soldiers also 
and 17 Jesuit Rwandan priests He said it was not clear if the were reported missing, U.N. 
were also reported killed. presidential guards who kid­sources in New York said. 
The capital in neighboring napped the Cabinet ministers The violence in Rwanda 
Burundi was reported quiet. and U.N. soldiers were acting broke out after President 
Intense gunfire and explo­under orders from some au­Juvenal Habyarimana of 
sions echoed across Kigali, U.N. thority or were rogue elements. Rwanda and President Cyprian 
spokesman Moctar Gueye re­The presidential guards are Ntaryamira of Burundi died late 
ported by telephone early in the dominated by hard-liners from Wednesday when their plane 
day. He said that there were the majority Hutu ethnic group, crashed while landing at 
reports of house-to-house which has been fighting minor­Kigali's airport. The Rwandan 
killings and that the city's ity Tutsis in both Rwanda and government said the plane was 
streets were empty except for Burundi for decades. shot down, but U.N. monitors 
small groups of youths armed Rwanda also has been torn by said they could not confirm 
with machetes and clubs. divisions among Hutus over a that. 
"So far as we can see, it peace accord that In Washington, President 
seems that there are a lot of Habyarimana's government Clinton said Rwanda's acting 
guns in a lot of hands and we signed with Tutsi rebels last prime minister, Agathe 
don't really know who is giving year. Uwilingiyamana, "was sought 
orders to shoot at who and for In New York, U.N. spokesman out and murdered" by 
what reason," Gueye said. Joe Sills said earlier that three Rwandan security forces. He from her home, apparently by Human Rights Watch in 
presidential guards who are Washington said the acting
Kigali "just fell apart," with Belgian U.N. soldiers were also expressed shock at the dominated by hard-line Hutus,
widespread gunfire and looting reported slain in the capital. deaths of the presidents. prime minister had been the 
U.N. sources in New York said. subject of threats. 
on Thursday, Canadian Maj. They were apparently abducted Uwilingiyamana was taken 





page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, AprilS, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
If you go, 
take a 


jacket 
Things were not good. I had a really bad week, and was sick as a dog. Things got worse. That's when the voice started. 
Saturday, I was out on Stepan Field tending to the patch of corn I grow there. That's when I first heard the voice. It was just a Dave Tyler whisper, but clear. It said Assistant News Editor "If you go, take a jacket." I tried to ignore it. 


Later, I went to a baseball game at the new Eck Stadium. During the fourth inning, it was back. "If you go, take a jacket," I asked my friend if he heard it, but he just laughed as if I was crazy. Then, the scoreboard flashed the words over and over. Again, only I saw this. 
By now, I was freaked. I felt like I was trapped in that Billy Crystal spoof of "Field o Dreams." As I walked the campus though, the 
message was not so mystical. 
Everywhere I looked there were hundreds o them. Jackets. Jackets of all shapes, and descriptions. A swimmer walked by in her fuzzy blue and yellow monstrosity. A basketball player passed in his monogram jacket. A lacrosse player displayed his big blue wind­breaker. And the calvelcade of outer-wear had ·ust begun. 
Four interhall champions strode by, each with a jacket declaring the sport they had con­quered. Next, band members marched at me, some wearing band jackets, others their sec­tion's garb. I saw two men of the Irish Guard, a saxophone, three drummers, a tuba player, and two trumpets. 
I turned around in time to catch the glee club, the bookstore commissioners, and the porn porn squad. The array of colors eminating from this display was stunning. 
The parade wasn't over until I turned a cor­ner and saw three cheerleaders in pullovers and a student manager in a Starter windbreak­er escorting a football player who was wearing seven jackets. He sported his monogram, gameday pullover, a practice jacket, and four trophies from the bowl games he participated in during his four years at NO. I was speechelss. 
But, huddled on a bench, away from all the commotion of this rainbow, sat a timid, but smiling student, with a jacket that just said "IRISH" across the back. I asked him why he wore that jakcet. He replied, "Because I go to Notre Dame!" · 
Then I knew what the voice had meant. There was message to this madness after all. We come to Notre Dame as big fish used to being the cen­ter of attention in small ponds. When we hit this ocean, it's a natural inclination to want to be recognized, to be proud of our accomplish­ments. One form of this self expression is the · acket. Maybe its unusual, but it gets attention. 
In high school, things were relatively simple; if you played a sport, you got a letter, and a ·acket. At Notre Dame, you're out of place if you don't have one. With so many opportunities, there are more reasons to wear your heart on your sleeve, or chest as the case may be. And rightly so. Just getting here is an achievement itself. Anything above that deserves recognition. 
So whether you're the QB for the football team, or just a proud resident of PW, don't be afraid to show your colors, you've earned it. And if you go to NO, take a jacket. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Accent 
Laura Ferguson Bevin Kovalik 
Edward lmbus Theresa Aleman 
Sports Chris Weirup 
TomSchlidt Graphics 
Viewpoint Chris Weirup 
Carolyn Wilkens Lab Tech 
Production Eric Ruerhling 
Kira Hutchinson Business 
Most in Poll Agree Economy Sound Despite Market Fall 

NEW YORK 

Most Americans agree with President Clinton's assurance after the stock market's tumble that the economy remains sound, according to an Associated Press poll. 
More people in the poll said they were affected by the job situation in the country (53 percent) than by the stock market (9 percent) or by the rising interest rates that apparently spooked Wall Street (31 percent). 
The five-day poll began Friday night, after an unusual good news-bad news day for the econo­my. The Labor Department reported strong job growth in March, but a frantic stock sell-off sent the Dow Jones average plunging nearly 10 percent from its Jan. 31 all-time high. 
Only 35 percent said they thought the stock market losses resulted from serious problems with the economy. The 51 percent who said that was not the case were more likely to be men, high­income Americans and people who are optimistic about their own finances, the poll found .. 
The White House encouraged such sentiments: "Fundamentally 
L__________________A_P-!Tom_H_olme__js
it is a very solid stock market and 
a very solid economy," Clinton 
said Monday. 
Clinton and his economic advisers said investors were 
overreacting to Federal Reserve Board decisions to raise 
Kissinger: U.S. must look out for self 
WASHINGTON 

The United States will continue to reel from one international crisis to another until it starts basing foreign policy more on self-interest and less on idealism, former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said Thursday night. Altruism moved America to send troops into Somalia to feed starving people, but the move was of little use in re­

solving that country's centuries-old tribal conflicts -the cause of the food shortages, he said. "We became in­volved in Somalia because some television network de­cided that it would take one case of 10 throughout the world of genuine starvation and add pictures," he told a National Press Club audience. He also warned against intervention in the Bosnian conflict. 
College student charged with 'piracy' 
BOSTON 

A federal grand jury indicted junior MIT student David LaMacchia Thursday on one felony count of conspiring to commit wire fraud ny running a computer bulletin board that allowed people to copy more than $1 million worth of copyrighted software for free. Since MIT's system is part of the Internet, a super-network using telephone lines to link educational, military and commercial computer net­works around the world, Internet users also were able to illegally copy the software, US Attorney Donald Stern said. As many as 180 people used the illegal software library over one 16-hour period, downloading hundreds of copy­righted commercial programs, the indictment said. 
NATIONAL Weather 

INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, April 8. 
40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
L 
FRONTS: 

"T""T" ........._ ............. COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather. Inc. Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRrES SNOW fCE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Confidence in U.S. economy 
Is the nation's economy getting better, getting worse,
Q.l 
I or staying the same? 
No 
Q.: 
How concerned are you
about prices going up?
Areyouveryconcerned, ~~~:;.~:~~~~~~~f~· or 

Q. 
Which most affects you
I personally? The rise in 
1 Interest rates, the job
situation in this country
or the performance of the
stock market? 

~~~~="~~~~~~~~!:"' 
Research Group of M~a Pa., part of AUS Consuhants. Margin of error 3 percentage points. plus or minus. Because of rounding, sums may not total100%. 
said it was getting worse. 

A majority, 54 percent, said they expected their family finances to stay about the same this year, while 29 per­cent expected to be better off and 15 percent worse off. 
Public Housing Gun Sweeps banned 
CHICAGO 
Police must have warrants to conduct gun sweeps in public housing projects even if residents support warrant­less searches, a federal judge decided Thursday. U.S. District Judge Wayne Andersen last month temporarily halted warrantless searches, calling the policy a "greater evil than the danger of criminal activity." Thursday's rul­ing continued that injunction. Chicago Housing Authority officials contend efforts to stamp out gang and drug activi­ties in all 17 developments are being frustrated by drawn­out legal procedures. Violence last summer prompted the agency to ask police to conduct random, door-to-door gun searches. The ACLU responded with a class-action lawsuit against on behalf of the estimated 150,000 tenants. Police said more than 300 instances of gunfire rang out in the 28 building, 12,320 tenant complex during a five day period. 
Plane lands safely after bizarre attack 
MEMPHIS 
A man armed with a hammer and spear gun attacked 
the flight crew of a Federal Express cargo plane on 
Thursday before the crew wrestled him to the floor and 
the captain safely landed the plane. Three people aboard 
the DC-1 0 were critically hurt and a fourth suffered Jess 
serious injuries, said Rick Roberts of the Regional Medical 
Center at Memphis. The suspected attacker was among 
the most seriously hurt, said FBI agent Dick Marquise. 
Airport Authority President Larry Cox said only the pilot 
was still able to fly after the attack and he brought the 
plane in. "The captain obviously had great skill," Cox 
said. The alleged attacker was sitting behind the crew 
in the plane's jump seat, Cox said. 
The same question asked
in November 1991 
GeHing 


No GeHing
beHer 
answer

30% 2% be~%
II.= Do you think recent
losses in the stock
marketresultfrom 

::~:~~~~ms with 
Noneofthese(volunteered) Noanswer 
S% 2% 
short-term interest rates to prevent the sort of economic overheating that causes infla­tion. 
The poll indicates it's not just investors who are fretting over inflation: 51 percent said they were very concerned about prices going up, and 35 percent said they were some­what concerned. 
Concern about inflation was highest among those who were young adults during the raging inflation of the 1960s and '70s, or have family income under $25,000. 
The poll also indicated a strong link between inflation 
fears and pessimism about the economy and family finances. 
Those who were not con­cerned about prices going up were more likely to be among the 30 percent who said the economy is getting better rather than the 28 percent who said it's getting worse. 
Those numbers have been fairly steady in polls this year, compared with plunges in con­fidence that occurred early and late in 1992, and in November 1991, when 5 per­
cent said the economy was 
getting better and 69 percent 
Atlanta 72 50 Denver 52 32 New Orleans 77 62 Baltimore 66 34 Houston 77 63 New York 59 40 Boston 57 38 Los Angeles 73 55 Philadelphia 63 34 Chicago 60 44 Miami 82 71 Phoenix 77 56 Colombus 62 44 Minneapolis 53 34 St. Louis 64 50 
Bridgette farrell Michael Martin 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. AU reproduction rights are reserved. 
.c------------------------------------~----------~--~--~-----~------------------~------------··. 
Friday, April 8, 1994 
Conference to discuss ' nuclear proliferation 
By SEAN O'CONNOR 
News Writer 
In an effort to get people to­gether to discuss the potential of using sanctions and incen­tives to deter nuclear prolifera­tion, Notre Dame will host a major conference this weekend entitled "Bombs, Carrots, and Sticks: Economic Sanctions and Nuclear Non-Proliferation." 
The conference will feature a panel of experts in the area of nuclear non-proliferation as­sembled from all over the world. According to Jennifer Glick, a spokesperson for the Fourth Freedom Forum, "some of the most well-known people in the area of non-prolifera­tion" will attend the confer­ence. 
Among the many noted pan­elists will be Victor Mizin, one of the leading experts on non­proliferation from the former Soviet Union. Mizin heads the Department of Export Controls and Non-Proliferation within the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has been an advisor and deputy head of the U.S.S.R./Russian delegations to several arms control talks, including START, INF, and SALT II. 
Featured speakers include John Holum, director of the 
U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, who will lecture on "Proliferation and the New Nuclear Danger," a.s well as James Goodby, who will deliver the keynote address. Goodby, U.S. Ambassador for Safe and Secure Dismantlement of Nuclear Weapons, will give a presentation on "Dismantling the Soviet Nuclear Arsenal" 
A third keynote address, "Lessons of the United Nations Weapons Monitoring and Destruction Mission in Iraq," will be given by David Kay, for­mer head of the International Atomic Energy Agency Weapons Inspection Team in Iraq. 
"The conference will examine the types of nuclear dangers and how they have chang_ed since the end of the Cold War," stated Glick. "There is a new nuclear danger: third world countries getting a hold of nu­clear weapons." 
In Glick's estimation, it is im­portant that Notre Dame stu­dents attend the conference be­cause "an idea that nuclear dangers have diminished" ex­ists. 
Students who attend the con­fe 
renee will be "awakened" to the realization that "nuclear dangers have stayed the same, if not increased, since the Cold War." Glick calls this a "major concern of the future" and rec­ommends, "if you want to know cutting-edge stuff, be there." 
The Conference is being co­sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at Notre Dame and the Fourth Freedom Forum, a non-profit, non-partisan organization em­phasizing discussion on the use of economic sanctions to counter the proliferation of nu­clear weapons. 
The two institutions are coop­erating on organizing the con­ference because, according to Glick, "if we pool our resources, we can do a: whole lot more." 
The Observer • NEWS 

Scots among the Irish 
-----~-------------------------------------~ 
page 3 
The Observer/Colleen Moore 


Carolyn Lyons, left, and Colin Cowan of the Caledonia Kilty Band performed their percussion yesterday at the Center for Continuing Education. 

AFROTC earn excellence 
By KEVIN RUSSO 
News Writer 

The Notre Dame Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corp (AFROTC) received an "excel­lent" rating from the inspector general in a thorough exami­nation last week. 
The very structured inspec­tion consists of an objective evaluation of several cate­gories: command, training, recruiting, retention, education, cadet personnel actions, cadet financial actions, unit support, and quality air force. Each area that is inspected can receive one of several grades ranging from "outstanding" to "unsatisfactory." 
With an "outstanding" grade very rarely awarded and an "excellent" rating the second highest, Notre Dame AFROTC received an "excellent" grade on seven of the nine categories and received an "outstanding" in the category of retention. 
The evaluations for all these areas are compiled to yield a fi­nal overall grade for the AFROTC unit. 
The inspection teams sent out by Headquarters AFROTC con­sist of two parts, the Inspector General and a non commis­sioned oflicer (NCO). 

Each inspecting team makes four trips in the fall and four trips in the spring, spending two days at each ROTC unit they visit The teams generally travel for two weeks at a time, and then spend the next two weeks compiling and writing the official inspection reports. 
The 147 AFROTC detach­ments located across the coun­try each receive formal inspec­tions of this type every 30 to 36 months. The general purpose of the inspection is to ensure that the individual ROTC de­tachments are operating effi­ciently and in concurrence with the overall AFROTC mission. 

braz1e~ 
I

! ~-. ~-ht!'A~ Chinese-American


h; . Vt"5'J:...rl J Restaurant & 
Cocktail Lounge 
\YALL 

Autl::::ntic Szc::huan, 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
Bar & Rdtaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at .....$4.25 Dinners starting itt ......$5.95 Voted Best Banquet rooms~available for up to 200 Oriental R.:st<'llntnt 
in Michiana by130 Dixie WayS., South Bend 
Mic:lliana Now 
t..._ (next to Randall's lnn) _ 




NOWOPEN! 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, April 8, 1994 
Holtz 
continued from page 1 
"If you don't stand for some­thing, you'll fall for anything." · 
When dealing with other peo­ple Holtz said to ask yourself three questions: Do you trust them? Do they maintain a stan­dard of excellence? Are they committed to and do they care about you and your organiza­tion? 
Holtz used these questions to explain his love for and com­mitment to Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame is a not a place of defiance, but compliance," Holtz said. "I want to coach at Notre Dame, and I have no in­tentions of leaving Notre Dame." 
"I have derived peace and tranquillity here," he said. "I just can't leave Notre Dame right now. I came here because I believe in Notre Dame, and I don't want to be average." 

Holtz commended students on their level of academic achievement, their good health, and their support systems of friends and family. 
"You have the looks, the tal­ent, the ability, and the intelli­gence," he said. "If we have the right attitude about ourselves, we can do anything. Be the very best you can be with "the time allotted." 
Holtz told the members of the audience to maintain standards by doing right and by being to­tally committed to excellence in everything they do. 
"You cannot be successful if the cornerstones of your life are not honesty and integrity." he said. "The only way to raise the self-image is to raise the standard. Notre Dame has a standard." 
handicapped housemates. "The real beauty of the handi­
Award 
capped person," he says, "is that he is vulnerable and he
continued from page 1 
knows it, and he is gradually accepting it. The others of us
including the United States, are vulnerable, but we don't
Canada, Belgium, Denmark, want to know it. We think we
Norway, Scotland, Ireland, 
can be human beings only if weIndia, Haiti, Honduras, Upper are strong or powerful or intel­Volta, and Ivory Coast. 
ligent or successful. One f the The communities, rooted in reasons that handicapped peo­the New Testament Beatitudes, ple are rejected is that in someinclude equal numbers of men­way they reveal to us who wetally handicapped people and are. We don't want to look at"assistants" from a variety of 
their weakness because it
religious backgrounds who live, obliges us to look at our own.
work, play, and pray together. 
The whole of wisdom is to
Vanier insists that the experi­
gradually accept our weak­
ence of community benefits the ness."
assistants no less than their 


U.S. wants to liberalize plan 
By RITA BEAMISH 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration is trying to get more liberal abor­tion language into a United Nations plan to stabilize the world's population. 
Already under attack by Roman Catholics and anti-abor­tion forces, the draft of a 20­year population stabilization program is under negotiation at a U.N.-sponsored meeting in New York. The 170 participat­ing nations are preparing for an international conference on population in September. 
The population plan that ulti­mately is adopted by the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, Eqypt, will outline goals and actions that participating countries should take to help check the world's burgeoning population. 
The administration believes the draft under consideration in New York should support broader availability of abortion. 
The State Department told its diplomats around the world last month to contact foreign gov­ernments and stress the U.S. wish for "stronger language on the importance of access to abortion services" in the draft document. 
"The current text, although it notes the high mortality levels and the serious maternal health problems associated with un-

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5323! 
THE WORLD'S BIGGEST TRAVEL 
COMPANY FOR 18-35 YEAR OLDS 
DISCOVER EUROPE 
from$,58 per day 
Includes: accommodation, most meals, sightseeing, luxury air-conditioned coach 
THE FUN WAY FOR YOUNG ADULTS TO TOUR 


EUROPE 
and all the fun you can handle! 
For more information and/or to request a Contiki brochure call Anthony Travel, Inc. LaFortune Student Center 
631-7080 

safe abortion, is inadequate as it only addresses abortion in cases of rape or incest," the State Department said in its ca­ble. 
The draft calls for stabilizing world population -about 5.7 billion today -at 7.8 billion by 2050. Unchecked, it is forecast to increase to 12.5 billion by then. 
Shortly after taking office, President Clinton reversed the Reagan and Bush administra­tions' ban on federal funding of international population-con­trol organizations that provide or pay for abortions. 
The administration also is pressing Congress to ease re­strictions on federal funding for abortions. Officials have previ­ously said that U.S. foreign· aid programs nonetheless would fund abortions in limited cir­cumstances, namely cases of rape, incest or botched abor­tions. 
The State Department cable said "the global community should work to reduce the de­mand for abortion by eliminat­ing the unmet need for family­planning services." 
But it added that the U.S. del­egation "will also be working for t>tronger language on the importance of access to abor­tion services." 
State Department Counselor Tim Wirth, representing the United States at the New York meeting, said Wednesday that the administration position is: "Abortion should be safe, legal 
1 :45, 4:15, 7:00, 9:30 
~­

oosome 
12:45,3:00,5:30,7:45, 9:50 
EMILIO ESTEVEZ ffiTI 
R ~f Ml~m ~ijt~~
1 :00, 4:00, 6:45, 9:15 
and rare." 
He said the U.S.-proposed language for the Cairo docu­ment is still in the works. but essentially stresses the princi­ple that "women ought to have access to safe abortions. It's not just rape or incest." 
The administration seeks also to focus on women's health and access to "the full range of re­productive health care ser­vices," Wirth said. 
in a telephone interview. 
The National Right to Life Committee accused the admin­istration of "accelerating efforts to legalize abortion on demand as a population-control method in less-developed nations." 
Doug Johnson, the group's legislative director, said the administration "has no moral right to seek to export an ideol­ogy that radically devalues hu­man fetal life." 
Wirth and other officials insist the administration does not support abortion as a fami­ly-planning tool, but as "a last resort" for pregnant women. 

Friends don•t let friends drink and drive! 
1111 fiNAl IN,. LES_Ul;_NI_t:l-SEN !PG-u! 12:30, 2:45, 5:15, 7:45, 10:00 

1 :30, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 

Now FREE REFIU. on Popcom f:l Soit Drinks: 
Friday, April 8, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Mattox, Fisher : Opposites meet in runoff 
By SCOTT ROTHSCHILD 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN 

Jim Mattox grew up tough and gained a reputation as a political brawler for the under­dog in over two decades of pub­lic office. 
Businessman Richard Fisher has said that one of his earliest memories is of being wrapped in a fur coat and riding in the back of a Rolls Royce. The Dallas millionaire has never held an elected office. 
The two are fighting for the 
U.S. Senate Democratic Party nomination in Tuesday's runoff. 
The winner faces Republican Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, whose political strength has in­creased since her acquittal on ethics charges in February. 
Neither Democrat has focused much on issues such as health care and welfare reform. 
nent of living like a rich Republican. Fisher, 45. calls himself a "New Democrat," then scolds Mattox for in­dulging in divisive politics. 
Lately, the two have argued about how much each is worth. 
Fisher, whose personal for­tune is estimated at $9.5 mil­lion, owns an investment firm that manages more than $300 million in assets. 
"I have done well in the busi­ness sector. I am proud of my accomplishments. I don't think 1 should be penalized for my success," Fisher said. 
Mattox lists $3.1 million in business and real estate assets, including a 10-story building in Austin and car washes in Dallas. But he says his holdings are highly mortgaged and mod­est compared to Fisher's. 
"I am by any stretch of the imagination not a wealthy 
Mattox, 50, accuses his oppo-. · man," he said. ''I'm just a 


WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 8 & 9 
JACCCOURTS 
MEN'S & WOMEN'S DIVISIONS T~SHIRTS TO ALL PARTICIPANTS BRING YOUR OWN RACQUET BALLS WILL BE PROVIDED REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
REGISTER. IN ADVANCE AT R.ECSPOR.TS DEADLINE: THUR.SDA Y. APR.IL 7 $6.00 FEE 
~~ 
Hosted by John Chancellor 
I feel badly 

working guy who tried to invest wisely in a few things. I've made some decent investments, .and if the notes all get paid off, then my brother and sister and me might be able to have a lit­tle net income." 
Mattox, a former state attor­ney general, congressman and state legislator, is trying for a comeback after a bruising gu­bernatorial runoff defeat to Gov. Ann Richards in 1990. 
In 1992, Fisher was an ad­viser to independent presiden­tial candidate Ross Perot. 
He finished fifth out of 24 candidates in the 1993 special election required when then­Sen. Lloyd Bentsen was ap­pointed President Clinton's Treasury secretary. 
Fisher spent about $2.1 mil­lion of his own money in that campaign, which Mrs. Hutchison won. 
Since Jan. 1, Fisher has re­ported pumping $1.4. million of his own money into the cam­paign. 
During that period, Fisher has outspent Mattox more than 2-to-1 -$1.6 million to $714,627. 
Mattox has hounded Fisher for donating money to Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., and to the Bush-Quayle campaign. 
Fisher says he gave the money to Lugar because he's a family friend; he says his wife was the one who supported the Bush-Quayle ticket. 
Mattox also has taken aim at Fisher's membership in an all­white country club. Fisher says it would be hypocritical to quit and labels the attacks as vin­tage Mattox. 
"It's vicious politics. It's the past. It's outmoded. The voters aren't going to buy it," he said. 
Mattox earned his reputation as a reformer in two terms in the Texas Legislature from 1973-76. 
He was elected to the U.S. House in 1976, but his aggres­sive style soon got him in trou­ble with congressional party leaders. 
Mattox returned to Texas in 1982 and won consecutive four­year terms as attorney general. 
In 1990, Richards defeated Mattox in a nasty runoff cam­paign. 
Fisher, who worked on Wall Street before starting his own investment firm, has never held elective office. 
He was an executive assistant to the Treasury secretary dur­ing President Carter's adminis­tration. 
In the early 1980s, he joined then-Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton and others in forming the cen­trist Democratic Leadership Council. 
Mitchell speculation slowing 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

White House officials tried to slow mounting speculation Thursday that retiring Senate Majority Leader George 

'DOING THE RIGHT THING' 
An advertising agency lands a big account. From the start, there are problems. Not with the ads, but ethical problems involving the ad makers and their new client. Price Waterhouse invites you to join us for this fascinating episode of On the Issues. Watch leaders from the worlds of business, government, academia and the media think out loud as they struggle at the crossroads where moral dilemmas and tough business decisions collide. Presented by Maryland Public Television 
APRIL 8, 10 P.M. ON PBS. CHECK LOCAL LISTINGS. 
...why is no one sensitive to rich white WASPS? 
...policy covers 2l of the I don't even know known world. The other 98l what the rules are anymore. is circumstances. 
The signal she gave 
says 
'JUNKIE" 
in semaphore. 


Mitchell would be President Clinton's choice for the Supreme Court. 
"We've not focused solely on Mitchell," senior White House adviser Bruce Lindsey said. "It's unfair to Senator Mitchell and everyone else to write the others off." 
Mitchell, a respected political leader and consensus builder, clearly remained a front-run­ner, though. 
White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers said the possi­bility that he might become the nominee would not undermine his role as the administration's point man in the Senate on health care reform. 

The :<f'Hickory Uillase Love Affair 
Look At What 

$295 
Can Get You: 
• 
AGreat One-Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(Efficiencies from $280, Two Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Sparl\ling Pool and Sundeck 

• 
Beautiful Clubhouse 

• 
Free Aerobics Classes 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Laundry Fadlities 

• 
Cable TV Available 

• 
Balcony • Close to Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance 


2'l2-1880 

Call or stop by tod~ <rld we11 show you how great liVing at H1ckory Village can be. 
rHlCKORU 

VlLLAC3Efj 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

"If anything, it enhances his stature," Myers said. 
Lindsey said he did not intend "to take anything away from Senator Mitchell. He'd make a very good justice. But other people are being considered." 
Other potential candidates are believed to include federal judges Stephen Breyer of Boston, Jose Cabranes of Connecticut, Appeals Judge Richard Arnold of Little Rock, Ark., Attorney General Janet Reno and Solicitor General Drew Days. 
Administration officials said that about a dozen candidates will be considered before a choice is made. 
They said it could well be weeks before Clinton decides who will succeed Justice Harry Blackmun, 85, who announced Wednesday that he will resign this year. "It could come soon­er," Myers said. 
Clinton adviser George Stephanopoulos said the presi­dent on Monday would conduct what likely would be the first of several staff meetings about filling the vacancy. 
The White House appeared to give more weight Thursday to Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt's declaration that he wasn't interested in the Supreme Court and wanted to stay where he was. 
"You have to take that in con­sideration when you make an appointment, whether a person has said he doesn't want it," Myers said. A day earlier, White House special counsel Lloyd Cutler said he imagined that Babbitt would be consid­ered regardless. 
By nominating Mitchell, Clinton would have a candidate who could sail through the Senate without a fight. A bruis­ing battle is the last thing Clinton wants as he tries to win approval of health reform, wel­fare reform and a crime bill. 
Yet, the White House has been counting on Mitchell to spearhead the health care bat­tle. 
"Obviously, it's preferable that Senator Mitchell be in the Senate during the health care debate," Lindsey told reporters in Topeka, Kan., where Clinton was promoting his health pro­posal. 
Administration officials have mapped out scenarios in which Mitchell would continue to serve in the Senate between the time of nomination and confir­mation. It's even legally possi­ble that a nominee could re­main a member of Congress af­ter confirmation. 
--------~---~ -~ -~-~ ~-~----~-­
page6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 





Rev. John J. Dougherty, C.S.C. Botkins, Ohio ~ Buchanan, Michigan 
AB (English) '89 University of Notre AB (History) '83 University of Portland Dame MBA '86 Amer. School International 
M. Div '93 University of Notre Dame Management 
M.Div '93 jesuit School of Theology, Berkeley 
With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross and the families of 

Jeffrey Alan Cooper, C.S.C John Joseph Dougherty, C.S.C. Robert Alfred Dowd, C.S.C. Thomas Michael Maximillian Esch, C.S.C. William Matthew Lies, C.S.C. William Anthony Pifher, C.S.C. John Patrick Riley, C.S.C. Louie Francis Rivetti, C.S.C. David Joseph Scheidler, C.S.C. William Albert Wack, C.S.C. 
announce the ordination to the priesthood of our brothers and sons for service to the People of God. 



Saturday, April9, 1994 
Sacred Heart Basilica 


University of Notre Dame 


Friday, April 8, 1994 






-----~--~ 
Friday, April 8, 1994 
The Observer • MEDICAL NEWS 

Cure for Alzheimer sought 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD that direction." A new NIH study, published Associated Press More than 4 million in Friday's journal Science, Americans are believed to have shows the protein, called beta WASHINGTON Alzheimer's, which gradually amyloid, that eventually con­
Scientists have long suspected wipes out the memory until its geals into those lesions may brain lesions cause the memory victims are unable to perform cause memory loss very early loss that characterizes Alz­even the simplest task. It kills in the disease. It is the same heimer's disease. Now research 100,000 people a year, mainly protein that produces the fatty suggests brain cells are sabo­the elderly. deposits of plaque that can clog taged much earlier by the same Only one drug provides any arteries. tell-tale protein responsible for relief -and only temporarily. The study also suggests cal­the lesions. There is no test to definitively cium isn't as big a culprit in 
The finding is important be­diagnose Alzheimer's; doctors Alzheimer's as was thought. cause hopes of a cure for rule out all other possibilities Adding just a tiny amount of Alzheimer's lie in catching the and confirm a diagnosis when beta amyloid to normal skin killer immediately after it ap­they spot the hallmark brain cells wiped out the pathways pears.. plaque during autopsy. that regulate how much potas­
"If we can understand what sium enters cells, said study co­is happening in the cellular Scientists have speculated author Dr. Daniel Alkon. process early enough ... we that those brain lesions kill Alkon's lab discovered last may move closer to learning memory cells by weakening year that the skin of how to intervene and halt the their protective membranes Alzheimer's patients is missing deadly progression," said Dr. and letting in toxic levels of cal­those microscopic tunnels, Patricia Grady of the National cium. But they were puzzled called potassium channels, and Institutes of Health, where col­because some Alzheimer's pa­he is working on a skin test that leagues performed the re­tients don't have enough lesions uses their absence as a marker search. "This study points us in to correspond to the severity of for the disease. 
their memory loss. "Now we have shown ... that 
j••··--· ···-·--------------------, we can change normal cells to look like Alzheimer's cells," he said. 
All cells have these channels. But they're vital in nerve and brain cells, where the electri­cally charged potassium trig­: !IDlE ~ ll ®JE ill~~ gers the signals responsible for memory, said Alkon, a medical 


i S~1~ 
I [p[b~ 
director at NIH's National Institute of Neurological
: ll li'iOJ!L~ \W~J1~ Disorders and Stroke. "They tap out the Morse code 
:SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 11:00 AM of the nervous system," Alkon 
explained. "What we have are
I AT STEPAN CENTER ROAD 
billions of cells and trillions of I T-8HIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS messages going back and 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS forth."
I 
$3.00 IN ADVANCE $5.00 DAY OF RACE
I 
Because other researchI shows the channels functions I ALJ.J PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT ~\ the same in all cells, Alkon ex­pects beta amyloid would be I I ©l]]lliT~1r~ ITlill ~~)I just as deadly to the tunnels in brain cells as it is in skin cells. 
STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
SPONSORED BY
I He's working to prove that now. 
I k:k~ ~·­
------------------~ 
SOPHOmORES 
FRESHmEn 
Separated

SEDJOBS JUDIOBS 

at birth, 

..Achieving Your Best Performance in Undergraduate Study.. 
Reunited

<A workshop using the insights of sport psychology> 
******************** 

as Glee 

This workshop is designed to provide undergraduate students 

Club V.P.s! 

in any discipline with techniques often used in sport psychology to help you achieve your best academic performance. It will focus on techniques for: 

ARCHERY 
v' Enhancing and maintaining concentration v' How to manage/juggle numerous demands on your time 

MINI-COURSE
v' Handling performance anxiety In writing papers, taking tests or making presentations Dealing with academic setbacks 
TUESDAY & THURSDAY 
Improving confidence In your study strategy 
APRIL 12& 14
Improving your ability to pace yourself In your academic studies 
7:00 PM -9:00 PM
Focusing your energy more quickly Maintaining motivation when you're burnt out 
JACCGYM1 ALL EQUIPMENT WILL BE PROVIDED NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
Presented by: Dominic 0. Vachon, Ph.D. When: Sunday, April 10, 1994 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED 
1 :15 to 2:30 p.m. 
REGISTER IN ADVANCEATRECSPORTS 
Where: Hesburgh Library Lounge 
$6.00FEE 
Sponsored by: University Counseling Center 

--~--~-----------·~......-----~---------­
-----·----------­
------~-------~-~-~ 
pageS The Observer •INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 8, 1994 
Japan's after-hours African drought high risk 
shoptalk not private 
By LAURA KING Associated Press 
TOKYO 
In Japanese politics, loose talk at late-night drinking ses­sions used to be sacrosanct, never repeated outside the walls of the posh establish­ments where the words were uttered. 
No more. 
Earlier this week, two politi­cians who dined with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa told reporters the beleaguered prime minister said he felt like quitting. The word spread so fast that Hosokawa was forced to hold a news conference late the same night to say he didn't plan to step down. 
While speculation about a possible resignation has died down, the episode is being por­trayed as symptomatic of the malaise of Hosokawa's once-energetic administration. 

The prime minister is trying to win approval of an already overdue budget for the fiscal year that started a week ago, but questions about his per­sonal finances have paralyzed parliamentary business. 
The growing scandal has been especially damaging to a prime minister who has made the fight against political cor­ruption a centerpiece of his 8­month-old coalition govern­ment. 
Even Hosokawa's wife, Kayoko, acknowledges he's feeling the heat these days. 
"My husband says, 'I'm like a chicken in the broiler,"' she told the respected Bungei Shunju magazine in its edition to be on newsstands Sunday. 
Hosokawa might have planned to relax at his get-to­gether Tuesday night. 
By GEORGE GEDDA Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The lives of more than 20 million persons in 10 East African countries are at risk because of civil strife and drought, government relief offi­cials said Thursday. 
The country most affected, according to the officials, is Sudan, where the lives of about 5 million are threatened. 
The other countries with large numbers of people who could face severe malnutrition or perhaps starvation are Ethiopia, Somalia, Eritrea, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Tanzania, Djibouti and Kenya. 
The ethnic strife in Rwanda and Burundi was underscored Wednesday when the presi­dents of both countries died when their plane was shot down as it arrived at the inter­national airport in Rwanda. 
The two presidents were on their way home from a summit 
i';l Tanzan~a ~hat was African drought aimed at brmgmg peace The lives of more than 20 million persons tO the tWO COUntrieS, intenEastAfricancountriesareatrisl<of 
w h i c h have b e e n malnutrition or starvation because of civil 
stnfe and drought.
plagued by tribal war-r--.----..~~,..j 
fare for decades. 
Lois Richards, a senior official of the Agency for International Development, said 11 million people in the 10­country region are affected by the drought, 7 million more are inter­nally displaced and about 2.75 million have fled to neighboring countries. 

Once donor countries are alerted to drought conditions in a given area, she said, it nor­mally takes three '---"""""-=_.....,__.__,.,-~'" 
_._....,,___._"-,~=---_.__~~""=::~~ 

mo.nths to arrange for She said the United States d~~IVery.. . , . had authorized $275 million in 
That s why It s Im~ortant emergency food aid to African that we get these warmngs ~s countries in need, of which early as ~e c~n ~efore there IS $170 million was for the horn mass fa~me, Richards told a of Africa. news bnefing. 


Bystanders kill gunman 


By NICOLAS TATRO Strip and West Bank town of north of the Gaza Strip. 
Jelfenon 

Associated Press Jericho. Much of the anger fo­Bar-Chen identified the gun­cused on PLO leader Yasser man as a Palestinian from the 
I 
~-~ 

JERUSALEM Arafat's failure to condemn the Shati refugee camp in the Gaza 
Main & Jefferson

A Palestinian opened frre with attacks. Strip. Six ammunition clips and a submachine gun at a bus stop Lt. Gen. Ehud Barak, the a knife were found on his body, 
Hours 

near the port of Ashdod today, armed forces chief of staff, told he added. killing one Israeli and wound­reporters the occupied West The militant Islamic Jihad 
Mon-Sat 11 a.m.-llp.m. ing four before being shot to Bank and Gaza Strip would be group, which opposes the 
Sun4-9 p.m. death by bystanders, officials closed "at least for several Israel-PLO accord, claimed re­said. days" to prevent further at­sponsibility for the attack in 
The attack followed a suicide tacks. About 1.8 million Ashdod in a handwritten state­
257, 1100 
car bombing of an Israeli bus in Palestinians live in those areas. ment issued in Gaza Strip's 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
the northern town of Afula on The measure will tighten Shati refugee camp. Wednesday that killed the as­travel restrictions imposed "With pride and dignity, the 
Authentic New York Pizza 
sailant and seven civilians, in­after the Hebron mosque mas­Islamic Jihad movement 
Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs •Stromboli
cluding three teen-age stu­sacre, when most Palestinians mourns its courageous lion Ali dents. were banned from bringing Amawi, the hero of the Ashdod 
3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
Islamic fundamentalists vehicles into Israel and the crossroads operation," said the claimed responsibility for both number of Arabs allowed into leaflet. 
For Fast Delivery
attacks. The violence came as Israel daily was limited to Family members said Amawi, Israelis observed Holocaust Day 20,000. 19, left home on a bicycle 
Call273, 2EAT 
in memory of the 6 million Jews National police spokesman Wednesday, telling his father slaughtered by Nazi Germans Eric Bar-Chen said today's at­he was going to Israel. 
$2 off any pizza with Student ID 
during World War II. tacker, who was armed with an 
The attacks, which under­Uzi submachine gun, was shot mined support for Israel-PLO and killed by a civilian and a peacemaking, spurred calls for soldier who were at the bus a suspension of negotiations stop and hitchhiking post used with the PLO on the withdrawal by soldiers. Ashdod is 15 miles of Israeli troops from the Gaza south of Tel Aviv and 15 miles 
Come and listen to the exciting Jazz sounds lrom college bands across tlie country! 
Friday ni,hl is the lamous JUDGE'S JAM !! Saturday naght we have a guest performancelrom the Air Force Jazz Band !! 
When: Friday Aeril 8 7:30pm
Saturday Apral 9 lpm & 7:30pm 
Where: Stepan Center 
Tickets: Re~lar HD/SMCIHC
Admission Students Fri. $10 $4 Sal. J_pm $5 $2 Sal. Night $8 $3 

All Session $15 $5 



Friday, April 8, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page9 


Pope remembers Holocaust Mexico investigates 
By DANIEL WAKIN 
Associated Press 
ROME 

In an important step toward reconciliation with Jews, the Vatican on Thursday formally commemorated the Holocaust for the ftrst time. 
It did so with music by the Beethoven, Leonard Bernstein and Franz Schubert -German, Jewish and Roman Catholic composers respectively -in a concert that brought together Pope John Paul II, Jewish lead­ers and survivors of Nazi con­centration camps. 
The concert was held on Holocaust Day, when the ex­termination of 6 million Jews is remembered. In Israel, sirens blared across the country to begin two minutes of silence commemorating the slaughter and its legacy. 
At the Vatican, the pope told an audience of 7,500 attending the concert that the evil of the Holocaust must not be allowed to reoccur. 
"We risk causing the victims of the most atrocious deaths to die again if we don't have the passion for justice, and ftght ... to prevent evil from prevailing over good," he said in Italian after the concert. 
He spoke three months after the Vatican established ties with Israel, and three decades after the Second Vatican Council officially refuted the killing Christ. 

A historical debate also rages over whether the pope at the time of World War II, Pius XII, did enough to save Jews des­tined for extermination. 
Applause rippled through the Paul VI auditorium, where the pontiff holds his weekly audi­ences, as the pope and Rome's chief rabbi, Elio Toaff, walked down the central aisle and took their seats in large armchairs. 
A line of red cardinal caps poked up from the front rows in the modern concrete hall, and Swiss guards dressed in their billowy blue, gold and red uni­forms stood at attention. 
-

(~ttravelmore 
~ ~Carlson Travel Network 
Euro~e!! 

Travelmore/Carlson ravel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. 
*Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! No service fee! Timetables, prices, tickets available! 
*Experience Over 20 years experience working with Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. 
We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­(219)271-4880 
1IDJ\TR1r  ENGL ENGL  409 01 415C 01  3787 3791  PHIL PHIL  241 02 246 01  4024 2015  
CLOSED SEC­ ENGL  415F 01  3962  PHIL  247 01  3642  
TIONSAS OF 7:00P.M 4/7/94  ENGL ENGL ENGL  418 01 420 01 428C 01  3792 3793 3794  PHIL PHIL PSY  261 01 265 01 453 01  2016 2017 0310  
ACCf 380 01 ACCf 476 02 ACCf 479 01 AFAM 401 01 AFAM 453 01 AMST 319E 02 AMST 355H 01 AMST 382H 01 AMST 387H 01 AMST 456H 01 ANTH 386 01 ANfH 390 01 ARCH 543 03 ARCH 543 04 ARCH 565 01 BA 391 01 BA 391 02 BA 490 01 BA 490 03 BIOS 40IL 02 CAPP 368 01 CE 452 01 CHEG 459 02 CHEM 46IL 02 coer 441 01 COMM 103 01 COMM 103 05 COMM 103 09 COMM 300 16 COMM 303 18 COMM 308 20 COMM 308 22 COMM 384 28 COTH 377 01 CSE 422 01 EDUC 404 48 ENGL 101 01 ENGL 306C 01 ENGL 399A 01  1059 1063 1064 3377 3860 3864 3865 3867 2684 3869 3388 3390 0935 3376 3365 1030 0928 1205 1207 3198 0665 1285 1302 0793 3466 9701 9705 9709 9716 9718 9720 9722 9728 2752 3120 8448 3959 3776 2797  ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL FIN FIN GEOS GOvr GOVf GOVf GOVf GOVf HESB HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST liPS liPS LAW LAW LAW LAW MARK MARK ME MGT MGT MUS MUS MUS MUS PHIL  4338 01 453 01 467A 01 4688 01 4718 01 471T 02 494A 01 376 02 470 01 141L 05 242T 01 242T 04 301 01 325 01 491H 01 491 01 308A 01 354A 01 456A OJ 458A OJ 471A QI 474A 01 486A 01 493 01 420 01 471 01 63IA OJ 6318 01 6310 01 679 01 384 01 476 02 470 01 240 04 240 06 220 01 221 01 226 01 228 01 235 01  3795 2798 3798 3799 3803 3805 3960 1578 1583 4016 3515 3518 3965 3876 3551 3884 2773 3587 3597 2873 3599 2686 3603 3604 3930 2757 1725 1726 1728 2781 1752 1754 1865 1878 1879 3635 2372 1932 3623 2014  PSY 454 01 0833 PSY 462 01 3979 PSY 470 01 3674 PSY 487A 01 3676 PSY 487C 01 3678 PSY 4870 01 3679 RLST 240 50 9550 ROFR 435 01 3689 ROSP 328 01 2340 ROSP 328 02 0043 ROSP 412 01 3702 soc 332 01 2615 soc 401 01 3917 soc 430 01 3918 soc 452 01 3718 S1V 454 01 2718 THEO 250 01 0976 lliEO 253 01 1003 TilEO 265 01 1002 TilEO 287 01 3744 TilEO 290 01 0570 TIITR 276 54 9754 TIITR 276 56 9756 CLASSES THAT WILL REOPEN AT 7:00 P.M. 4/8/94 ANfH 386 01 3388 ENGL 409 01 3787 HIST 471A 01 3599 HIST 486A 01 3603 HIST 493 01 3604 MUS 220 01 3635 MUS 228 01 3623 PHIL 246 01 2015 PHIL 247 01 3642 PHIL 261 01 2016 PSY 453 01 0310 PSY 487A 01 3676  

Royal Philharmonic Orchestra of London and chorus of St. Peter's at the Paul VI audito­rium, where the pope holds his weekly audiences. Levine is di­rector of the orchestra in Krakow, Poland, the pope's hometown. 
The program contained Max Bruch's "Kol Nidre," the Hebrew prayer of Yom Kippur; the Adagio movement of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony; a setting of Psalm 92 by Schubert for the inauguration of a Vienna synagogue; and works of Bernstein: a section from his "Kaddish" Symphony and parts of the "Chichester Psalms" with a Hebrew text. 
Actor Richard Dreyfuss, wearing a black velvet yarmulke, narrated the "Kaddish" excerpt. 
Holocaust survivors lit the candles of a menorah. 


theory of lone killer 
By JOHN RICE 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

Investigators are grilling political activists about a possi­ble conspiracy to kill Mexico's leading presidential candidate, but the man who admits pulling the trigger insists he acted 
alone. 
Factory worker Mario Aburto, 23, testified Wednesday he did not know the four other 

men charged Carlos Salinas 
in the March 23 assas­sination of Luis Colosio in Tijuana. 
The killing "was not premedi­tated" and those being accused are innocent, he said. 
Aburto made the statements as he was formally charged with criminal association at a session at Almoloya de Juarez high security prison west of Mexico City. Newspapers on Thursday reported transcripts of his testimony. 
Aburto was charged with first-degree murder last month. 
The four men, involved with the 46-member security detail hired to guard Colosio, pleaded innocent Wednesday and de­nied knowing Aburto. 
Replacement candidate Ernesto Zedillo laid a wreath Thursday at the assassination site. He made no comments to reporters. 
Under questioning after the shooting, Aburto told police he meant only to wound Colosio and went to the campaign rally alone. But he hinted others were involved. 
"Understand me, I can't have confidence in anybody, not even those who were with me," he told police in remarks pub­lished by the San Diego Union­Tribune. 
His relatives insisted they saw him earlier with others accused in the crime. 
Prosecutors continued to speak Thursday of a possible conspiracy, and plan to ques­tion the Tijuana city committee for Colosio's Institutional Revolutionary Party. 

Keillor: America can't throw good scandal 
''$~'' 
YOUR 

with every tanning package purchase 
GET FREE TANNING! FOR A LIMITED TIME (WITH THIS AD) Expires 4/22/94 
This Waakand in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Notre Dame Baseball 4/8 -7:00 pm -Notre D.ame vs. Xavier 4/9 -5:00 pm -Notre Dame vs. Xavier (2) 4/1 D -1 :DO pm -Notre Dame vs. Xavier Eck Stadium 
Notre Dame Men's Tennis 4/9 -1:00 pm -Notre Dame vs. Miami 4/10-11:30 am-Notre Dame vs. Minnesota Eck Pavilion/Courtney 1:ourts 
Notre Dame Lacrosse 4/9 -2:00 pm -Notre Dame vs. Adelphi FREE ADMISSION -Cartier Field 
Notre Dame Women's Tennis 4/10 -5:00 pm -Notre Dame vs. Tennassaa FREE ADMISSION -Eck Pavilion 
By RANDOLPH SCHMID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
America just doesn't know how to have a good scandal, says humorist Garrison Keillor. 

He recommends the British style. 
"It's been a quiet week in Whitewater," Keillor told the National Press ·Club on Thursday. 
So quiet, in fact, that the American people seem to have become fascinated by the fact that they are still standing around listening to a story whose main point seems to be pointlessness, he said. 
It's like a circus with the peo­ple sitting on bleachers waiting for the elephant to come out, he said, and all they can see are people standing around selling cotton candy. 
"Those guys are you," he told a room packed with reporters. 
"This is a lousy way to run a scandal," said Keillor, host of "A Prairie Home Companion" on public radio. 

In England, Keillor said, the newspapers know that a scan­dal should be quick, it should involve sex if possible, it should be on the front pages for three days, and then it should be over. 
"When you open a British newspaper you know there will be a prize in it for you," Keillor went on. 
A recent story involved a member of Parliament, found dead wearing women's stock­ings and a garter belt. He was a man who promoted family val­ues, but who obviously also had a rich fantasy life_, Keillor ob­served. 
"This story entertained mil­lions of people for days at no public expense whatsoever," Keillor noted. There were no hearings. There was no special nro!':P.r.ntor_ 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bo•Jght and sold 

• 
25 Categories oi Books 

• 
25.CXXJ Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of.Print Search Service 


-$2.00 
• Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to m Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 



~--~---~ ---------------. -­
-----~--------------­
page 10 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 8, 1994 

Serbs keep up attack, Rose struggles for peace 



"The Relevance of the Apocalypse" 
Father Marie-Dominique Philippe, O.P. has spent most of his life as a professor of philosophy at the University of Fribourg in Switzerland. Likewise a popular retreat preacher and a personal friend of Pope John Paul II, it was at the Pontiff's request that he accepted his present role as founder and superior general of a new congregation, the Community of St. john, although he remains a member of the French province of Dominicans. 
By SUSAN LINNEE 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

Serb troops kept pressure on the embattled Muslim enclave of Gorazde while the U.N. com­mander struggled Thursday to persuade generals from both sides to accept a general cease­fire. 
Truce talks scheduled for Sarajevo airport did not take place. Instead, Lt. Gen. Sir Michael Rose, who leads U.N. peacekeepers in Bosnia, shut­tled between the commanders of Serb forces and the Muslim­led government's army. 
There were hints of progress. 

U.N. spokesman Maj. William Levack said Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic told U.N. offi­cials he would agree to a 24­hour cease-fire throughout the former Yugoslav republic. 
The Bosnian news agency B­H Press said the Bosnian gov­ernment commander ordered his forces to stop shooting at 6 
p.m. local time (noon EDT). 
There was no word that the Serbs had agreed to the cease· fire. But Levack said the Serb commander told Rose that his forces would hold fire if gov­ernment forces did. It was not immediately known whether fighting had stopped. 
Rose was pushing both sides to agree to a proposed cease­fire for all of Bosnia, U.N. offi­cials said. 
"We're fairly close to some kind of peace plan," Rose said earlier in the day, but he de­clined to give details or discuss stumbling blocks. "Both sides need time for reflection . . . and we hope to continue the talks tomorrow with a view to sign­ing a peace plan in the very near future." 
Charles Redman, the special 
U.S. envoy to the region, mean­while arrived in Croatia on Thursday, with visits also planned for Sarajevo, the Bosnian Serb headquarters in Pale and Belgrade, capital of Yugoslavia. He said he was· go­ing to talk with leaders in those areas about a general cease­fire. 
Some fighting has been si­lenced in Bosnia. A cease-fire between the government and Serbs has held since Feb. 10 in Sarajevo. Ct:oats and Muslims have observed a truce since Feb. 25 in central and south­western Bosnia as part of their U.S.-brokered agreement to stop fighting and form a federa­tion. 
But the fierce fighting in Gorazde has complicated efforts to sew the patchwork truces into an overall peace for Bosnia, where more than 200,000 people are dead or missing after two years of war. 
The United States and its NATO allies on Thursday urged the United Nations to dispatch hundreds of Ukrainian and other peacekeepers to Gorazde, Clinton administration officials said Thursday. 
British and French peace­keepers may be redeployed to join the Ukrainians in trying to protect the town's 65,000 civil­ians. The United States was ready to transport the Ukrainians, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Serb militiamen besieging the area around Gorazde had ap­peared to ease their attack Wednesday night, but U.N. aid 
··ntpl[~k ast:!r~fk 
Th . on il,dministTation is c~lling for the qmck dispatch of }J'UJ1dre ofU.N, peacek!)~pers t-9~~r · circl(ld Gora:zf!eln easter.... . •nia and vowing to have NATO air p!.)wer defend tllem if ey (lore. · ked. 
I)ep · 'ng the .. . cekeep(lrs ··~pql .. ·.-.····· .a ba~iS for possible ~:~.tr.strikil$.'' Secret~ of State 
. . . . . id 
ted s there in Gorazde tnqitll,ty op1 
lla$_-'~'.ti*llt 
tection ifthey e said on 
sb,_~_,_:_-:'··_.._u_._•-.'.'··,•._·.·.·-·....r_•_·_,_..:,.·.·.,,•_:,:_•_o•. ...•..
•.•. ___._.,._..n_._ 
· •. -·· 

ve an olt gation'and a rightto go in arid help those pcpqp~~tr <::hrl~t<l-}lh~rsaig. 
i-ln ~POlicy speech, Authony Lake, the•natioual security ad­viser, Sa.id Thursday "a contin­gent o(J,.hN•. fo,rc~s should soon be on its waY to G()razde; It is important that this· happen as 
workers in the town reported mately every three minutes." more shelling Thursday. Kessler said 67 people had 
"Four shells landed in the been killed and 325 wounded in very center of the city, less than 10 days of Serb attacks. a kilometer (a half-mile) from Reports from aid workers and the UNHCR office," said Peter U.N. military observers in Kessler, a spokesman for the Gorazde this week have consis­
U.N. High Commissioner for tently painted a more seriol!s Refugees in Zagreb, Croatia. picture of the situation than 
He said U.N. aid workers in U.N. statements from New Gorazde, 35 miles southeast of York. Sarajevo, reported "regular Reports from U.N. military shelling along the northern observers in the enclave criti­confrontation line, approxi-cized unidentified U.N. com-soon·~ possible, . Gor. e and its predominantly 
· Other administration·otlicill}~ Muslim population of 6~.000. said the plan was b~ing put91l f:entagon f spokes_':Yoman a(~;tSttrackandtij~~it.wol)!d .Kathleen·•_·.. deLaski. said hivolve hUIIdreds ofUkrainians · Thl.l.rSday '"there's no daylight" and also British and Frenc;h between -the Defense troops alrf}~dy on p~aeekeeep-Department and the State inK du~Yw.:f:llsewh~J,'.e in t~e •Depi;l~tment on using .force in 
Balkans. ' ·· Bosnia. ·· 
If the Serbs attacked the ''Both departments are in peacekeepe~s theyvv:o9}d ti~~ ~ complete agreement that youl\1'!\.TO: air strike, tb:~ oftlci{!.ls sho~ld look at all yoW' options
said. •:u . .... ' X at all times in Bosnia. :.. We're ''Let me be clear;•·:_Lake said not rJJ}ing ou,t the use of force l'ttJobns -~~pkins Pl!lye:rslty.~n. as {!. ':Yay to stop bloodshed or 
.~alt~o.re,.:i1rNeitl!E)~~tl1e preaF·· prt}mote·the peace. process. 
deil,t nor any of his senior ad~  Thos.e are the objectives in  
visers rules oqt the use ,of NATO · · r Jo J:lelp stop ·att<l,c ~$' · · · a.*aipst Gorazde.~ ·  Bosnia. And no one has said anytping to th~ con~r~ry as a g~n~ral concept/' she'~d. · ' The United States stands  
'}'be carefully drawn state- ready  to  transport  the  
mentw~ 9-esigneSerbs and We: res  alert thethe wodd  Ukrainians, most 9f whomwould come from Kiev, to a  
that Defense Secretary William  staging area, deLaski and other  
Perry arid Gtm. · John Shalikashvili subscribed to thf:l  officials said. The officials cautioued, how­ 
ultiniatUID.:  "iii'}  ever; that it was  not clear  
Earlier this week,· Perry and  whether the Serbs would try to  
Shalikashvili, chairman of the  block the peacekeeping mis­ 
Joint Chief~  of Staff, ruled ()-Ut  ..  sioq, Approval by the United  
any military actionat this stage  Nations was considered a vir·  
to  try  to  lift  the  siege ··of  tual certainty.  

manders for suggesting the Serb offensive was an attack on just one corner of the enclave, which shelters 65,000 people. 
"Saying it is a minor attack into a limited area is a bad as­sessment, incorrect and shows absolutely no understanding of what is going on," said a report dated Tuesday. Other reports, dated Tuesday and Wednesday, said the Serbs were advancing on several fronts. 







BUSINESS 
Friday, April 8, 1994 page 11 
Tippecanoe Place blends dining with history 
By KELLY ROMER 
Business Writer 
Since Memorial Day weekend of 1980, the Tippecanoe Place Restaurant has taken advan­tage of a special enterprising opportunity in its historically significant location in South Bend. 
The site of Tippecanoe was once known as the Studebaker mansion in the late 1800's. Clement Studebaker, namesake for the famous automobile, built the "house" in 1886 and moved in around 1889. 
Ornate in its decor, the man­sion became a symbol of the city's economic prosperity and development in the early part of this century. During the Great Depression, however, Studebaker faced troubled times due to diminished sales on cars and lost his home. 
The mansion as a historical landmark holds a special place 
mansion, the building has had attraction of the building with they will keep coming back,"
in documenting South Bend's Community. Students and facul­
many owners, but none of the excellent food and high quality said manager Elyse Dikow. 
industrial and cultural develop­ty members represent about 
owners were able to use the service to create an uncommon
ment, and as such has been 30-35% of their customer base
building as innovatively as the dining experience. The key to Their menu consists mainly of 
designated a national land­on average over the year,
Tippecanoe family did when it the restaurant's appeal is the fine steaks with a specialty in
mark. The mansion is also very according to general manager
opened Tippecanoe Place emphasis on offering more prime rib, but extends itself to
interesting as a piece of archi­David Barry, who added that 
Restaurant almost fourteen value than the average eatery seafood and poultry as well.
tecture, having won widespread "football weekends tend to 
Tippecanoe's marketing

LOCAL BUSINESS PROFILE 
strategies are numerous and varied, mostly centering on the quality of the menu and theTIPPECANOE unique qualities of the building. The restaurant uses a number
PLACE 
of promotional techniques, like a coupon incentive program
Established: 
that is now being offered which 
1980 
gives customers the opportunity 
to receive dinner for two at a Location: special price. Studebaker Mansion, built in 1886 Most of these efforts are right 
in keeping with the hometown nature of the business trying to 
Capacity: 
reach a discriminating con­
550 

sumer looking for an out-of­
the-ordinary dining experience. Sales to ND/SMC The restaurant's clientele students and faculty: ranges from business parties to 30-35% the regular restaurant goers in 
the area. 
Sales on credit: 
The Observer/Colleen Moore 
Like many businesses in the

80% Historic Studebaker Mansion is the location for Tippecanoe Place, one 
South Bend-Mishawaka area,
of South Bend's most unique dining establishments. 
Tippecanoe receives a sizable portion of its business from the Since Studebaker lost the ed to accompany the singular tomers so that we are assured 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
years ago. for the price. "We try to exceed
acclaim for its Gothic­
The Tippecanoe family decid-the expectations of our cus-Romanesque architecture. 
Cable TV steps into future 
By JEANNINE A VERSA  rural and suburban communi­ about developing a new music  
Associated Press  ties will be the first to have  channel, Malone said.  
access to the service in 1995,  Eventually, when cable com­ 
WASHINGTON  said TCI senior vice president  panies rebuild their systems to  
The nation's largest cable TV  Robert Thomson.  be more sophisticated, cus­ 
company stepped into the digi­ Richmond, Ind., is the first  tomers will be able to order  
tal revolution on Thursday,  TCI system targeted for the ser­ and retrieve programs, sports  
unveiling new programs that  vice, and South Bend, Ind., also  scores and other information  
will take up less space on cable  is including in the first group,  from their TV sets when they  
systems and could increase the  officials said.  want.  
number of available channels  For an extra monthly charge,  Bell Atlantic Corp. announced  
tenfold.  cable subscribers who want  last week that it plans to open a  
It is the first crucial step  more channels can rent a spe­ similar production center in  
toward the much ballyhooed  cial set-top box to receive pro­ July.  
"500 channel" future, when  grams in the digital format,  Both companies are betting  
cable systems will be able to  Malone said. They also will pay  millions that consumers want  
substantially increase capacity  a yet-to-be-determined price  more TV programs.  
and possibly their revenues.  for 150 to 300 channels that  "The proof will be in the pud­ 
Tele-Communications Inc.  will be offered individually,  ding," said Soloman Brothers  
opened a $100 million facility  Malone said.  analyst Fred Moran. "But I  
in a Denver suburb where  More channels will become  think people want more  
movies and other programs will  available based on demand, he  choice." .  
be converted from analog into a  said. TCI initially is using tech­ Cable companies, chafing  
compacted digital format.  nology that will compress six  under federal rate regulation,  
These programs will then be  digital signals into the space  are looking for ways to make  
delivered via satellite and filler  that one analog channel uses.  money from unregulated ser­ 
optic cables to TCI cable sys­ But it has the ability to eventu­ vices. Because consumers can  
tems and other cable systems  ally put 10 digital signals in the  buy channels offered on TCI's  
opting to buy the service.  space of one analog channel.  service on a individual basis,  
"Five years ago, digital TV  Most small cable systems  those offerings could qualify as  
was sort of a dreain," but the  have 36 to 54 analog channels.  unregulated channels under  
rapid pace of technology is  Some of the programs that  the Federal Communications  
making it a reality, said TCI's  could be offered are multiple  Commission's price rules, ana­ 
president, John Malone.  channels of pay-per-view  lysts said.  
Digital technology converts  movies or channels that are  FCC Chairman Reed Hundt,  
the programs to a series of  dedicated to all Westerns,  who has taken a lot of heat  
ones and zeros for more pre­ romances or science fiction  from the cable industry for  
cise pictures and crisper sound.  shows, Malone said.  engineering a 7 percent rate  
When compressed, digital pro­ TCI also is talking to newspa­ cut this year, applauded TCI's  
grams take up far less space  per publishers about develop­ plans. "We in government may  
than current analog programs.  ing a "magazine type of ser­ be cable's regulators, but not  
Several hundred thousand  vice" for a channel and is talk­ its enemies," he said in a  
TCI customers in 23 mostly  ing with music companies  videotaped appearance.  
MARKET ROUNDUP  BUSINESS BRIEFS  


Prices range from $12.95 to 
compensate for the spring and 
$17.95 per entree. 
summer lulls." 
Conference addresses business responsibility 
By ZOE MARIN  was inspired to hold the confer­ 
Business Writer  ence by an article in Newsweek  

 magazine written by Samuelson  
Representatives from the  which discussed IBM's downfall  
Hershey Foods Corporation and  in the business world.  
Motorola Inc. will be speaking  "We thought that this would  
at the annual international con­ be a good topic to bring people  
ference held by the Center for  together for," Williams said.  
Ethics and  Besides the three guest  
Religious  speakers, a host of corporate  
Values in  leaders and scholars from  
Business on  around the country will also be  
Aprilll-13.  participating in the discussions.  
Robert  The wide range of topics cov­ 
Galvin, chair­ ered at these conferences have  
man of the  helped the center publish a  
executive  total of seven books. The books  
committee for  are a compilation of essays  
M .0 ~ 0 r 0 1a •Oliver WilliamsWtlham Lehr,  written by speakers and pan­elists who have attended past  
Jr., senior vice president and  conferences.  
secretary of Hershey Foods,  "Most of the books are prod­ 
and Robert Samuelson, senior  ucts of the conference, edited  
writer from "Newsweek" maga­ by John Houck and me. We've  
zine will be the featured speak­ written essays ourselves, intro­ 
ers at the conference.  ducing the topics," Williams  
The challenges and social  said.  
responsibilities that corpora-.  John Houck, professor o  
tions face in today's global  management, and Williams are  
economy will be the main  the codirectors for the Center  
issues addressed by the confer­ for Ethics and Religious Values.  
ence.  According to a brochure  
issued by the center, it was  
According to Rev. Oliver  established in 1980 to "build  
Williams, associate provost and  bridges among business, busi­ 
co-director of the convention,  ness studies and the humani­ 
Hershey's is one of the most  ties."  
socially responsible corpora­ The convention is open to all  
tions in the country today.  students and faculty free o  
Williams said that the center  charge.  


NEW YORK  "'':  CHICAGO  BECKLEY, W.Va.  
Stocks rose for the third day  Riverboat casino developers  A meeting targeting the  
in a row Thursday, thanks to  who want a seat at the table of  nation's smallest coal mines is  
strength in bonds and result­ ,Chicago gambling will be  an attempt to come up with  


ing declines in interest rates. ··asked to ante up $100 million, "practical, realistic solutions" 
4090 
The gains came despite anoth~ , a published report says. ·· for improving the worst safety 
4000 
e:r round of good ecoriomic'iii The money would be used to record in the mining industry, 
3910 
news in the form ofstrong build a huge indoor theme mine safety chief Davitt 
3820 
retail and auto sales and a rise park under legislation drafted ; ,McAteer said Thursday. 
3730 
in projected capital sp~nding by negotiators for MayoJ;;z.;til!>~overnment regulators•. coal 
3640 
by corporations. In~es~ors ap-Richard Daley arid Gov. Jim ;•+ perators, miners and mmers' 
peared to acceptJMtnews Edgar, the Chicagq,~ • widows will gather here
3550 
without letting fears prompt .tep9rwd Thu~ ··· Saturday to discuss the safety selling as in recent weeks. · ·· · ~fPhlems and their solutions, 
1/1/94 2/1/94 3/1/94 4/1/94 5/1/94 





VIEWPOINT 
page 12 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Nom Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor .............. Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Mattina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor /Viewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900I 8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  E-Mail  Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Unix  observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Forum on death penalty: Life a gift from God 
Dear Editor: or to her claim that I based my stays of execution for one con­the amount of suffering inflict­sexist. It is all of these, but 
This letter is intended to clar­arguments on myth or hearsay vict, because it could not waste ed upon the victim. In the case problems of this sort extend to ify a certain misconception re­rather than on fact. The facts more of its time dealing with of theft, I see nothing morally all types of punishment. In fact garding my personal beliefs as are these: his recurring case. wrong with seizing property they infect all levels of society. portrayed in a news article First, Ms. Dunne should heed The insanity of the appeals equal to the value of unrecov­Remove the biases and ("Panelists argue morality, fair­her own advise and stay away process ties up the legal system ered items and transferring it inequalities from society, and ness of death penalty," The from statistics. I wholehearted­(abrogating other alleged of­to the victim. they will disappear from crimi­Observer, March 18, 1994) and ly agree that they can be made fenders' sixth amendment right However, no one can place a nal sentencing. in Kirsten Dunne's Desiderata to say anything. I even said the to a "speedy trial"), increases value on life, and the victim In response to Ms. Dunne's Column ("Death penalty law same in the debate, because costs to society, and destroys cannot be repaid. Thus, to pre­correlating abortion to capital unfair to all," The Observer, statistics taken from New the death penalty's effective­vent further costs to society, punishment, I say only that the March 30, 1994). Orleans were the mainstay of ness as a deterrent. death is viewed as a fitting pun­unborn have committed no 
When one debates a point one of my opponent's argu­If one knew that conviction ishment. It was once hoped that crimes. They are innocent and with which she does not agree, ments. for specified crimes lead in experiencing death compa­should be protected. she must be certain that her My side-comment about sta­immediately to death, (s)he rable to that of one's victim, Finally, as Christians we arguments are factually air­tistics from California which would be less likely to commit (s)he would recognize the evil should rejoice in the death tight. ln this way she can pre­uphold the deterrent affect of that crime. One could try-to use of his/her sin and repent, thus penalty. Through Christ's sent an unemotional and capital punishment were just statistics or psychological stud­saving his/her soul. Now, we death on the Cross, humanity consistent argument. I argue used as an example of selective ies to prove this statement, but just hope to scare others out of has been saved from its sinful­best for what I do not believe, bias. They were not meant to a simple example of the effec­doing the same thing. ness. Without capital punish­because I do not get emotional­convince anyone of anything. tiveness of an immediate and Under the "fitting" system ment, we would have no hope ly involved in the argument. Sr. Ms. Dunne, however, also be­unavoidable death sentence will many crimes must be equated of salvation. Kathleen Beatty recognized this gan her argument with a statis­suffice. to others, and thus arson was Ms. Dunne's arguments fail, fact when she asked me to tic. In response to my assertion While there may be ques­equated to theft, rape to mur­not because they were made argue for the death penalty. that society should not be tions about capital punish­der of a woman, and treason to without a fervent will, but be­
On March 16 and 17, 1994, forced to pay for the mainte­ment's effectiveness as a gener­murder of the state. Equating cause they have no factual Pasquerilla East, Keenan and nance of violent criminals, she al deterrent, it is the perfect crimes is even more antiquated basis in our society. She tries Lyons sponsored a two-day fo­says that it is more costly to specific deterrent. No executed than "fitting" crimes, so that to hide her moral bias behind a rum on capital punishment, and execute a criminal than to sen­person will ever commit his/her now only murder receives the wall of fact, but ends up with a I was asked to participate in a tence him/her to life. Of course crime again. Life sentences are death penalty. strip of cellophane. Few could student-faculty panel-debate it costs more to apply the death not so effective in this regard The only way to make the do better, I do not even try. which was held on the second penalty. Many death row in­because "life" is only eight to death penalty unconstitutional I am against the death penal­day. mates serve the equivalent of twelve years. is by amendment. Arguing ty, not because I can find facts 
I am against the death penal­one life term (8-12 years) while One of government's primary textually, the Constitution to substantiate my belief that is ty. It is safe to assume that Ms. they go through the appeals functions is the protection of its states that: one may be senseless (I succeed in finding Dunne was not at the debate, process. citizens, and releasing certain deprived of life through the facts which tell me that I am since no one remembers her In order to determine the classes of criminals into society "due process of law" wrong). I am against the death being there and all her points cost of putting someone to is wholly irresponsible in this (Amendment V). Historically, penalty because life is each stem from the Observer article. death, one must add exorbitant regard. Retribution is not the capital punishment was used person's greatest gift from God. 
Ms. Dunne made three major legal fees accrued each year issue, safety is. for all rommon law felonies at No one has the right to take this errors in her pre-Easter and the cost of the execution it­The idea of the punishment the time that the Constitution gift and throw it away. It does Desiderata Column: self to the yearly cost of basic fitting the crime was raised by was ratified. Therefore, it was not matter if someone has 
• 
She did not attend the de­maintenance (a cost which, I a member of the audience. (In not considered "cruel" or killed another; two wrongs do bate upon which she bases her repeat, society should not have case one did not know, fitting a "unusual" by the framers. not make a right. If one does judgment upon me. to meet). punishment to a crime is based Literally the wording of the not believe in God, as stated 

• 
She presumed that the If the death penalty were exe­in the idea that the victim must eighth amendment says "cruel above, life has no price, and no quotes published in The cuted (no pun intended) with be repaid and in an old and unusual," so as long as the crime is worth it. Observer were 100 percent alacrity, the costs to the Christian idea of repentance.) states accept it, capital punish­accurate. American public would dimin­It is an antiquated line of rea­ment cannot be unusual and its 

• 
She presumed that I would ish. Recently, the Supreme soning, but I agreed to the idea cruelty is irrelevant. PATRICIA MOLLOY have no response to her in­Court banned judges of the with some rewording. The pun­I will not say that the death . Junior flamed attack on my character ninth circuit from granting ishment should "fit," in degree, penalty is not racist, classist, or Lyons Hall 


DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
COWN/31..., I !XJN'T 6f3TCHUCK R0/38. H& {.(PS 7V 8/M80 M457A6.55, aur IN91979He!J!!?N'T 60 "COrrAL.':..  HEL.L, THAT:S ?He CARNAL. &aU/VALENT Of "I VIVN'T /NHAL-8"! a!HY O![JN'TH&JU5T OOWHATMOST  O&NY &V&R.Y­THING l I MeAN HAV& YOIJ &V&R.. Of&ATWON /A/!f/3, " aJt.­ON&L'?  51313! 7H&R&'S TH&OIFFI3R£Nc:&' ~LM/5N O&NY IT! \,.-,~-~  
M&N!XF  ~  

I I Modem technology owes ecology an apology." 
-Alan M. Eddison 
Worse Verse, 1969 

------·-----~--~­
~----· ------------------·----------------~---­
Friday, April 8, 1994 page 13 
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
I 
I
Observer subsidizing spells unfair competition I I 

Dear Editor: 
In response to Sean Arthurs' and Megan Keenan's letters calling the Student Senate's actions out of line, I am writing to present the position of a member of Senate who supports the boycott of The Observer's advertising services, pending the correction of their actions. 
If this letter is printed, it serves as a compliment to the journalistic integrity of The Observer. 
"So what is the big deal?" you ask. "Why should AdWorks and Scholastic be protected from competition?" you inquire. These are important questions and we presented them to AdWorks and Scholastic representatives at the Senate essary services to students on the Notre Dame campus. AdWorks is a student run business that is part of the co­operative Student Business Board, whose primary function is to provide Notre Dame students the opportunity to run businesses while providing services to the Notre Dame community. 
AdWorks starts with zero dollars in its budget at the beginning of the year. All that they have is their name, whatever is in their office and the motivation of their employees. They provide prices that are competitive with other outside companies and they can provide ser­vices that only a student run business on campus could provide(i.e. a campus wide network of students that post signs protect as AdWorks, does fill a neces­sary role on the Notre Dame campus. Scholastic is one of only a few other media voices which reach Notre Dame students. If Scholastic is forced out of business because of undercut advertis­ing prices, The Observer would have a monopoly on campus media. This is not in the interests of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
"So what is wrong with some healthy competition?" you query. "Nothing," is the response of most reasonable people. But this is not healthy competition. 
The primary objection is based on the fact that The Observer receives six dol­lars a semester from every student. The Observer is a subsidized organization. 
Observer to undercut the prices offered by AdWorks and Scholastic. We put up with the mandatory charge because a student newspaper is probably worth a few dollars. 
Senate's position comes from the belief that a subsidized student organi­zation should not try to undermine the efforts of other student organizations, especially non-subsidized ones. 
If you think that this is "On­American," (bad term) you are wrong. The United States has had policies pro­tecting US companies from foreign government subsidized ventures for years (i.e. the French airbus boycott). 
The Senate's actions are intended to force The Observer to dissolve its plans 
meeting. for your organization). AdWorks is not subsidized and although for an advertising agency that competes 
My decision to support the boycott was If AdWorks makes a profit, it reinvests Scholastic gets some money from the with AdWorks and to convince the edi­primarily based on two factors, the role it into the business. This positive organi­university it doesn't get the modest esti­tors to rethink their plans for a weekly of AdWorks and Scholastic on our cam­zation should be protected from unfair mate of $70,000 that The Observer re­magazine. pus and the mandatory Observer fee. competition. ceives. TOM MATZZIE 
AdWorks and Scholastic provide nee-Scholastic, although not as easy to This subsidization allows The Freshman Council President 
President responds to criticism Is GSU representative of its student body? 
Dear Editor: Mr. Anderson was right in 
I would like to address the is­stating that most graduate stu­sue of whether or not the GSU dents are taxed enough by at­is an effective organization with tempting to balance the weight an appropriate agenda that ac­of graduate school with the pri­curately represents its con­orities of the rest of their lives. stituency. As for myself, I have a wife, a 
I would like to preface my baby that will be born in statements by saying that I was October, a house, two cars, a one of the people who signed yard, a dog, bills, research, Mr. Anderson's letter classes, extended family re­("Graduate student union needs sponsibilities and the list con­refocusing," The Observer, tinues. March 23, 1994) and that my I apologize for not having the intent is not to take issue with time "to engage in ethical dis­Mr. Steele but rather to clarify course" and therefore, appar­our original objections. ently, becoming one of Hitler's 
I make this preface because, henchmen according to Mr. after reading Mr. Steele's letter, Steele. I learned that he is an active I could delineate each of my member of GSU and that he objections to the platform but helped to rewrite its constitu­that would serve no purpose tion. This is a fact Mr. Steele since no platform could cover did not feel was important even all the graduate student needs when making statements about at Notre Dame. That is not my the GSU's constitution. point nor was it Mr. 
The one that stands out is Anderson's. the one in which he states, "I The only issue which can be have read every word of that argued in this type of forum is thoughtful document." I whether or not the GSU's agen­
the body that determines GSU an adequate grounds .upon the GSU's stand on Gay and thought this ironically high da is appropriate (i.e. should it policy, included representatives which to claim that you are not Lesbian issues, the final votes praise from one of the docu­be a political organization) and 
and committee chairs from 19 
represented, especially if others were not even close. It would ment's co-authors. represents its constituency. 
different programs and all 3 
in your college and department appear. then, that if anyone is I reiterate that I do not wish To address this issue I make colleges, which is the vast do participate. out of step with the views of to take issue with anything that the following suggestion.majority of departments with This is the way democratic graduate students, it is Mr. Mr. Steele states as his opinion Presently, every month, all 
graduate programs. No repre­
organizations work; if you do Anderson. in his letter. I do want to show members of the graduatesentative can be seated unless not participate or participate Third, the GSU budget con­that his opinions may be slant­school are sent a GSU newslet­they are selected by a recog­and are in the minority, your sists of both the required stu­ed by his position, a position ter (a colossal waste of rain for­
nized departmental organiza­
position loses. Defeat does not dent activity fee of graduate which he apparently thought est). All the GSU needs to do is tion, elected at a department equate to misrepresentation. students and an optional $10 should be hidden. have a questionnaire in the election, or submit a petition Mr. Anderson's second con­general fee. The vast majority Having made these introduc­next newsletter. collect the with signatures from 25% of cern seems to be that the GSU's of the budget goes to funding tory remarks I would like to re­questionnaires and then reporttheir department's students. positions are both radical and graduate student travel, social late some facts that pertain to the results in the newsletter. 
The point is simply this: if the unrepresentative. Neither is activities. intellectual life events my situation. I have read the The questionnaire needs to ask GSC does not represent the true. As an individual both per­and orientation, teacher train­platform of the current GSU only one question:graduate students of Notre sonally and professionally com­ing, and professionalization administration. I do not agree Do you agree with the policies Dame, nobody can. Mr. mitted to radical politics, I must workshops. with it. It was formulated with­and the agenda of the GSU or 
Anderson's claim that the 
insist that the GSU's positions In Mr. Anderson's words, out my input, the input of any­would you rather not be associ­members of his department do simply do not fit the criteria of "programs that might make one I know or anyone who ated with the organization? not have the time to participate radicalism. graduate life here more ac­might know my beliefs. I had no The three possible answers and are therefore unrepre­Requesting that Fr. Malloy commodating." If Mr. Anderson knowledge of a vote held on the would be: .. sented is unsustainable. We are address the issue of discrimina­had taken the time to inform platform or on any candidates • I agree with the GSU's poli­
all graduate students in difficult tion on the basis of sexual himself before writing his letter who supported it. I have no cies and agenda. programs. Even if I were to ac­orientation within the context he would have known this. connection to the GSU other • I disagree with the agenda cept the implicit claim that of the Church's own teachings Finally. I would like to en­than my money. My money is but would like to remain a Engineering students have even is hardly outrageous. Working courage Mr. Anderson or any given to the GSU not by choice member. more work to do than other with the undergraduates and other concerned member of his but because it is a mandatory • I do not wish to be a part of students, his objection fails for faculty to establish a Women's department to become GSC rep­requirement of being in gradu­the GSU. three reasons. Resource Center is completely resentatives. I have no wish to ate school at Notre Dame. If the GSU really feels confi­First, other Engineering de­mainstream. see a group of students go The argument that the reason dent they might even include a partments have representatives In both cases, I would per­unrepresented, even if I dis­I had no input to this platform copy of their agenda. I feel the on the GSC. sonally prefer that the GSU take agree with them personally; my is because I did not take the results of this survey will be il­Second, students from Mr. much stronger stands, but my job is to carry out the decisions time to be involved is undeni­luminating.
Anderson's own department 
positions are irrelevant-the of the GSC, whether I agree or ably correct. I have no desire to 
have served as the Chairperson 
GSC determines what the GSU's not. Petitions are available at be a part of the organization in 
of the travel grant committee 
policies should be. These issues the office. its present form. Since I do not 
for the past 2 years, a position are debated publicly and openly have the time or the power to ROBERT MINNITI, III 
which requires even more time and decided by majority vote. ED WINGENBACH change it, I would appreciate it Graduate Student in Aerospace and than a department representa­In the case of both the GSU President if my money was no longer a Mechanical Engineering tive. 
Women's Resource Center and member. 
Third, nonparticipation is not 








ACCENT 




page 14 

The panel of celebrity judges 
Ray Brown-Bass 
After receiving musi­cal training on the piano at age eight, Brown learned to play the bass by ear and from then on started down the road to success. Brown also won a Grammie Award in 1963 for his joint composition of the "Gravy Waltz," with Steve Allen. He has played on numerous televi­sion shows and has worked with some of the greatest jazz stars on earth. 




Benny Green-Piano 
Green is a summa cum laude graduate of the rigorous music academies run by Betty Carter and Art Blakey. He pos­sesses great talent and an encyclopedic knowledge of the jazz ke.yboard. The Benny Green jazz trio performs jazz with a more African pulse. 
Christopher HoUyday­Saxophone 
Hollyday picked up his first saxophone at age nine and by the age of fourteen he had not only learned most of Charlie Parker's solos by heart, but made his professional debut. He released his self­titled first major hit in 1989. He achieved major success in 1990 with his follow-up record­ing "On Course" and had a dozen performances opposite Harry Connick Jr. 




Dan Morgenstern-Critic 
Since 1976 he has been the director of Jazz Studies at Rutgers University. Morgenstern is a jazz historian, author, and editor profession­ally active in the jazz field since 1958. He is also co-founder of director of the Jazz Institute of Chicago and has won Grammy Awards for Best Album Notes in '73, '74, '76, '81, and '91. 

Claudio Roditi-Trumpet 
Born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Roditi began his musical career when he was five years old. With five critically acclaimed albums to his credit, he is truly an artist on the move with his music. His most recent album "Milestones" was selected for Best Jazz CD of 1992 by CD Review. 


Ed Shaughnessy-Drums 
Shaughnessy has per­formed with every major sym­phony in the United States. After 29 years with the NBC "Tonight Show" orchestra, he still performs with the Doc Severinsen Orchestra. He has performed on over 500 albums, including the recent release, "Big Band Hit Parade" with the Cincinnati Symphony. 
Friday, AprilS, 1994 
The panel of Judges includes five professional jazz musi­cians, and one jazz music critic from Down Beat Magazine. The judges will perform Friday night in an unrehearsed Jazz Session-Style "Jam," according to Kenney. 
Musicians will call out songs, never having performed as a unit and not even having rehearsed the numbers, and they will play together. 
Saturday Night's events will include "Airmen of Note" con­cert. The Air Force's premier jazz ensemble is a touring band led by Chief Master Sergeant Peter BarenBregge. The band has "attracted 18 of the finest musicians in the country," said Morrey. 
"For anyone remotely inter­ested in jazz ... this is a great opportunity to sit and listen to some wonderful music," said Kenney. 
Jazz Festival adds a little pizzazz to Stepan Center 
p.m. MichiganState <'combo 
7:30 p.m. Oberlin School of MusicJazz Band 8:15p.m. Purdue University Jaz~J?and 
p.m. ManJ1~!tan School of Musk Octet 
• p.m. Westefi1.¥ichigan U '' .. ty' Jazz . 
0:30 p.m. Guest Band-Airmenq .,Note;:' 
Stepan Center prices: Fri. ~vening $10 Sat. 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
Assistant Accent Editor 

Something with beat, a little bit of rhythm, a lot of soul. . . all that jazz. It's time to go "Stepan" out to the annual Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
The festival will take place for the 36th time this weekend at Stepan Center. Jazz ensem­bles auditioned from across the country for spots performing at the festival. Some 40 to 50 bands sent audio tapes auditioning for a chance to play at the event. Thirteen bands were chosen to perform accord­ing to Sean Kenney, the execu­tive producer of the festival. 
"The Jazz Festival is a good chance to hear great jazz in a college environment," Kenney said. 
The University of Notre Dame Jazz Band will kick ofT the festi­val with their performance. The band's director, Father George Wiskirchen, will lead the band for the 22nd consecu­tive year. 
The band, which consists largely of non-music majors from every college and gradu­ate school on campus, performs on campus every year in the "Dimensions in Jazz" concert as well as at the festival, accord­ing to Bridget Morrey, publicity director of the Jazz Festival. 
The band's other perfor­mances include the fall concert "Bop and Beyond," a concert for Junior Parents Weekend, and a "Farewell to Seniors con­cert." 
Although there will be six judges for the festival, "the bands don't compete against each other. It's more a chance for the bands to get some point­ers from professionals," Kenney said. 


.-------------~~--~~~-----------------~~--------~ 

ACCENT
Friday, April 8, 1994 page 15 
Photos by Eric Ruethling 
Airmen hit high note in Jazz Festival 
Photo special to the Observer 

By TANYA KRYWARUCZENKO Associate Accent Editor 
Not only does the United States Air Force serve our country. but they also feature a highly acclaimed jazz ensem­ble, the Airmen of Note. 
The Airmen of Note will per­form Saturday at Stepan Center at the Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival (CJF). 
This is the third time the Airmen of Note will entertain at the festival, said Greg Goger, co-chairman of the CJF. The last time they performed was three years ago, he said. 
"The Air Force Jazz 
Ensemble is an outstanding contemporary style under band," Goger said. "I saw them Sammy Nestico's direction. perform when they were here Currently, the ensemble is three years ago and they were under the direction of Chief just incredible." Master Sergeant Pete 
Airmen of Note, formed in BarenBregge and has held the 1950, was originally based on position since January of 1989. Glenn Miller's Army Air Corps Chief BarenBregge also per­dance band style. In the mid forms as lead tenor saxophon­1950's, it developed more of a ist. He has recorded for radio, 

The Air Force Jazz Ensemble will play this Saturday night for the Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival under the direction of Chief Baren Bregge. 
television and record singles and was a featured soloist on the last nine Airmen of Note al­bums. 
The featured vocalist for the Airmen of Note is Senior Master Sergeant Juanita DeShazior. She studied music at the Fine Arts Conservatory of Miami­LaPierre School of Music. 
She continued her musical experiences by actively partici­Jfating in the recording indus­try, including singing for many commercials and a gospel al­bum. Sergeant DeShazior has also performed on an interna­tional level for night clubs, reli­gious services and high level government functions for dis­tinguished dignitaries. 
The Airmen of Note is one of the only touring big bands. Thus, it has attracted 18 of the ... greatest musicians in the coun­try. The ensemble has also attracted many guest artists in­cluding Bob Hope, Dizzy Gillespie, Marie Osmond, Barbara Mandrell and Lou Rawls. 
The ensemble plays at jazz festivals and music conventions throughout the country includ­ing the Detroit/Montreux Jazz Festival, Jacksonville Jazz Festival, Wichita Jazz Festival and the Pensacola Jazz Festival. They also offer clinics around the country at the high school and college level. 
The Airmen of Note tours the 
U.S. twice a year performing ­community relations conc~rts in the spring and fall; these con­certs are co-sponsored by local businesses. 
"The Air Force Jazz Ensemble has a standing invita­tion to perform in the CJF," Goger said. "It just depends if their tour comes by at the same time the CJF is taking place to play in it." 
.... 
page 16 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, Aprils, 1994 
Ordination is a powerful symbol ofthe Church 
The Holy Cross Community is 
may be anchored in it?" His when he tells them that the ordaining ten deacons to the answer was: the love of Christ. Mass entrusted to them at ordi­priesthood in Sacred Heart "Life teaches us that this is the nation should be respected as
Father Robert Griffin 
Basilica on Saturday, and noth­only true reply. 'Not people­the heart beat of the Church? ing else as important has hap­not even the best and dearest; 40 years ago next June 5th, I pened at Notre Dame since last Belfers Ia a Bonefy 9od not science, or philosophy, or was ordained as a priest. A year's ordinations. If we had art...not nature, which is so full confrere asked me recently if doubled the endowment, be­of profound deception; neither the Church could be headed come Number One in foot ball, time nor fate ... not even simply toward great disaster, like thebeen entirely redeemed of the like of which has never been in 
and put up a half-dozen new 'God'; for his wrath has been Titanic on a collision course
old obsessions. Groundling Christendom since the time of
buildings, that would have been roused by sin, and how without with the iceberg. "The personal 
Catholics, pure in heart, in the apostles." Luther might not
minor-league stuff compared to Christ would we know what to tragedy for us," he said, "would 
every generation have been have been so unhappy with the
the empowerment of young expect from him? Only Christ's be if it happened on our
offended by the insolence of Mass if he had understood it,
ministers who have answered love is certain. We cannot even watch,"
clerics who shame the Gospel. not as a repetition of Calvary, 
Christ's call. The ten of them say God's love; for that God "As long as there's a priest
That's why the Church of Christ but as a memorial of Christ's
together could be giving four or loves us we also know, ulti­alive to offer" I replied, "The 
so often seems to need a refor­passion.
five hundred years of labor to a mately, only through Church will be in business." 
mation of manners among In the Reformation churches,
vineyard in which the workers Christ...Only through Christ do "What if the last priest alive
prelates as insensitive as the Eucharist became more and
are not replacing themselves. we know that God's love is for­should feel he's not in business 
Pharisees , as vain-glorious as more the Sacrament of the
Most of us have shortlists ex­giving. Certain is only that to say Mass?" 
popinjays. Divine Absence. No some of the 
tending to infinity of what's which manifested itself on the "Maybe he could spend eter­
young ministers have given up
wrong with the Church; but or­cross ... " nity with Judas, who left the
500 years ago, the Reformers, the celebration of the Lord's
dinations are a healthy sign of supper before the Master could 
on the way out the door as sep­Supper, because, they say, the
what's right with the Church, To represent Him, Christ said tell him, 'Do this, in memory of
aratists, confused shadow and language reminds them of can­
alive and well, serving the will to that gang of His who couldn't Me?"' I said. 
substance, and turned their nibalism.
of Christ. In Easter week shoot straight: You have not The reply was: "Then the
back on too much, throwing out St. Paul wrote: "For I am per­
Catholics should take greai chosen Me. I have chosen you Mastermight have to reinvest
the baby with the bath water. suaded that neither death, nor
pride in their Church for mak­to bear much fruit. I call you Himself in a new incarnation.
Catholicism, as a package deal, life, nor angels, nor princi­
ing the risen Christ visible as now not servants, but friends ... Both of us believed that this
has its lex credendi (the Creeds) palities, nor powers, nor things
the Lord of life. Sadly, the As His friends He sent them to was unthinkable, as well as
and its lex orandi (the present, nor things to come, nor
Church has a track record to be servants to His brothers and unnecessary. According to
Liturgy)-and one hand washes height, nor depth, nor any
answer for: offering God's for­sisters, and theirs. He has been Christ's promise, we knew the
the other. other creature, shall be able to
givenness to all who have called "the Man for others." Church which has the Mass as
The Church that wrote the separate us from the love of
sinned and come short of the Perhaps being "a man for oth­its jewel is forever.
Bible, with the guidance, of God, which is in Christ Jesus
glory of God, the Church has ers" is what Paul had in mind 
course, of the Holy Spirit, also our Lord." 
sins of its own for which it must when he told us we should be Maybe Saturday's new
shaped the Liturgy which em­
ask forgiveness. Popes, bishops, all things to all men, comforter, priests, now in love with Christ 
bodies Christian worship. Updating the things to be
priests and laity should wear healer, counsellor, crony. But be like the flowering springtim~
Luther accepted the New feared, I am persuaded that
sack cloth and ashes for their tradition shows us that the through them, may our ancient
Testament as the inspired Word neither cancer , nor AIDS, nor
failures in love. The truth of the defining role a priest has is as Church be young in heart
of God; and he used it to make bombs, nor terrorists. can sep­
matter is that the shortcomings the servant of the Eucharist, again. May their ordinations be, 
the prayer life of the Church arate me from the love of God
of the Church are the human making Christ's grace available as every ordination should be,
seem like a fall from truth. in Christ Jesus. A great
shortcomings of Christians to every loser he meets. Despite an Eastering in them for us
In Luther's opinion, "The Christian writer, Romano
more in love with law and the generation gap that that which leaves us distant from sin 
Mass is the greatest blasphemy Guardini, once asked: "What is 
legalism than they are wi Light. can separate the young from and death. I welcome them to
of God, and the highest idolatry certain in life and death-so
The dark side of the Church has the old, will the new priests the ordained state with hope
upon earth, an abomination the certain that everything else
been that its members have not trust the opinion of an old timer and love. 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


"On The Campus!" 
EK 57881 


threesome 
MUSIC FROM THE MOTION PICTURE 
_ . Includes tilt new single from General Public Ill T1ke You Tllerw; plus rare music lrom mljDrlrtiSII lnclud•ng: Turs For Furs. JJ2. Dum Duran. ~ Bry1n ferry. 1nd Teen1ge F1DCI1b. !!~!!!!!!!! 
-

CK 64200 


PINK 
FLOYD. 
THE DIVISION 
BEll 
Includes• KEEP TAI..ICNO TAKE IT BACK 
IIGHHOPES 
COMNOBACK 
TOI.ft 
r.uu\IIM 
Also available on Cassette.
Also available on Cassette. 
' .. . ,. ,·
t' I .t I. r-I ........ J 

page 17

Friday, April 8, 1994 The Observer • Classifieds 
BOOKSTORE RESULTS-THURSDAY, APRIL 8 
Prisoners of Gravity d. Simian Solution 21-3 Unforgiven d. Cool Arrows 21-12 Herb Dove Fan Club d. Meter Maids of the ... 21-16 FUHP d. Platonic Hickies 21-18 Perfect Popcorn d. Hoop It Up 21-12 Snatch the Rebound d. Club 321 21-12 Isaac's Crew d. N.O.U.P.S. 21-6 TEAM 92 d. Stanford's Sons 21·6 3 Sick People and 2 Who Will. .. d. Talking Hands-Rock Five 21-4 The Thrill, Scroop Dog 2-Man d. Vivacious Ballhandlers 21-13 Team Biolab d. St. Urho and the Grasshoppers 21-3 Rider d. We're Not Afraid 2B Naked 21-19 The Lodge and Montezuma d. 10,000 Maniacs 21-9 Heidi Fleiss d. Beavis ... 21-15 Beavis n the Buttheads d. Sea of Meat 26-24 Just Like the South Bend Police ... d. Jesus McKinley and the Rotund Weeds 21-13 When This Side is Empty ... d. Painfully Huge IV 21-10 The Boneheads d. Spiece 21-11 Magically Frolicious d. TPL 44 21-18 Straight Butta, Baby d. Four 'Cocks and a Fat Guy 21-8 
OOH, That's Phat d. TEAM 561 21·13 Strategic Deterrance d. Erik Estraba Fan Club forfeit Mishawaka Brewing Co. d. The Marlboro Adventure Team 21-11 Deeez Nuts d. Affreux 21-3 The Unmentionables d. Jeff (&the Oxycan Boys) 21-15 BYE d. Even If You Win We Still Beat You 21-5 '187 d. Hard and Crunchy on the Outside ... 21-17 4 Guys and Baby Shaq, TEAM 570 double elimination Chris Farley's Dream Team d. Bruised Cucumber 21-19 All the President's Women d. lshmay Ananab Schplum 21-5 El Stoppo d. TEAM 35 21-15 Vertigo d. Acid Reign 21-15 Squirrel Jam d. We Shoot Like Girls II 21-18 Big Dog and the Kennel Club d. Spud Tostal 21-17 Behind the Back ... d. I Love It 21-4 5 Guys Who Never... d. Cult of the Squirrel 21-11 Soft White Underbelly d. At Least We Look Good 21-12 Who's Yer Daddy d. Goggy Guys 21-16 Hey That's My Bike d. Blistered Earth 21-15 Rigid Body Dynamics d. Soup Daggy Dags 21"16 U Gatta Rip In Your Couch d. Be Gentle ... 21-17 


Jordan hurts, helps team 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Michael Jordan returned to the city that reveres him, not as an NBA superstar leading his team to a string of championships, but as a 
·minor league baseball player still trying to grasp his new game. 
"It was a great experience. Who would ever think I would ever be out there playing baseball here in Wrigley Field?" Jordan said after log­ging 10 innings for the Chicago White Sox in Thursday's Windy City Classic, an exhibition against the Cubs. 
Jordan's performance was mixed. He showed his remarkable athletic ability at times and also his inexperi­ence. He went 2-for-5 with a game-tying double and an RBI single. He also had an error, a weak strikeout and a base-running miscue that cost his team a run. 
"It was a great feeling just to come out and do well. After the error you kind of second guess yourself. You are just trying to do what you want to do to fulfill your dreams. I was able to bounce back, I'm very proud of myself for just staying in there," Jordan said. 
"Once you get an error, it's good to redeem yourself and get your confidence back. I was real nervous." 
Jordan, bound for the Class AA Birmingham Barons on Friday where he hopes to play well enough to come back to the White Sox in September, was the main rea­son 37,825 ventured to a chilly game that ended in a 4­4 tie. 
Cheers and standing ova­tions were mostly what Jordan received, although there were a few scattered boos, perhaps from basketball fans longing again to see him fly across the floor for a dunk. 
"There were some pulling for me, some going against me," Jordan said. "I heard a lot of 'rookie' calls. I'm just happy to be able to block that out and still play." 
With the go-ahead run on 

first in the ninth, Jordan 
swung weakly at two break­
ing balls from former major 
league pitcher Chuck Crim, 
now in Class AAA, and then 
was called out on the very 
next pitch. 
"I didn't want to give up a 

hit to him and the second 
time I faced him I went after 
him really hard," Crim said. 
"I wanted him to see what a 
big league slider looks like. 
"Overall, I think he's been 

great for baseball. He certain­
ly has made things interesting 
again." 
After he'd doubled past 

third off Crim in the seventh 
to tie the game, Jordan didn't 
score from second on Julio 
Vinas' fly ball double to cen­
ter. He'd raced back to sec­ond thinking the ball would be caught and then only made it as far as third. And when the next hitter, Craig Grebeck, grounded to third, Jordan was caught in a run­down and tagged out. 
"If Michael Jordan wasn't coming off winning NBA championships, he would have scored on that double," White Sox manager Gene Lamont said, referring to Jordan's baseball inexperi­ence. 
Batting sixth, Jordan led off the top of the second inning against Lance Dickson and after taking three balls, the first one very inside, he popped out. 
Jordan made one of three 

White Sox errors in the third. 
When Shawon Dunston sin­
gled to right, a charging 
Jordan let the ball go under 
his glove as the third of four 
Cubs runs scored in the 
inning. 
"Just like the time he 

tagged up on the bases, it was 
just inexperience. He was 
watching the runner," 
Lamont said. "Experience you 
can't replace. In Birmingham 
he's going to get that." 
When Jordan did catch a 

fly ball in the fifth, he got a 
standing ovation. 
In the same inning, Jordan 
flawlessly fielded two hits in 
the outfield and on the second 
made a perfect one-hop peg 
to third, preventing Willie 
Wilson from advancing a 
base. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at tbe Noue Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
lassifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  Lost: Gold Bracelet A men's gold, rope chain bracelet  WANTED: LADY'S BIKE. GOOD CONDITION. 234-9909.  '91 Red Mercury Capri Convertible. 33K, Power locks, AMIFM Cassette  *************KATHARSIS"'*****••..•• APRIL 15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in  $1***1$ IRISH GARDENS $1***1$  
was lost somewhere on campus.  A/C. Call 233-5773.  Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway  Come join this one-of-a-kind STU·  
If found, please call  ND or SMC student to care for 3  Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss  DENT-RUN business!  
TROOP NOTRE DAME  Keith @4-1824.  children June 13 • Aug 5, Mon thru  1985 Ford LTD White 96k mi. new  out. Fun starts at 1 O.For more  Irish Gardens is now accepting  
Fri. Must have good references and  battery $1200, 277-7405  information on gigs and parties  applications for the 1994·95 school  
Dancers Needed for St. Ed's Carnival!! Meeting: Tues. 4-12 @Rock 219 8 pm  LOST: A blue, London Fog, light· love kids. Non smoker. Call7·10pm weight jacket with a liner. 708-524·9386 Call Eric at 4-3376. II FORRENTWANTED  QUEEN box springs excellent quali­ty, like new! $100 or best offer. call heather, 234·2846. Acoustic guitar  call237-9702. Ask for LENNY. .............KATHARSIS********.... Do you have Thur • 3/31 Letterman w/ Madonna on tape? If so, please  year for both in-store and delivery positions. No floral experience nec­essary: we seek creativity and unbridled enthusiasm. Please pick up an application today in the store in the basement  
'------------'  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES·  $190  X2289  call 284-5065, also would like Fri.  of LaFortune. Call 631-4004 for  
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S  Summer Resort Jobs • Eam to  ND/SMC EVENTS  4/1.  inquiries.  
everyday but sunday until 5:30pm  $12/hr.+ tips. Locations include:  (219)291-7153  FURNITURE FOR SALE  
233·2342  ND ave & Howard  Hawaii, Florida, Rocky Mountains,  .  call 273·4803  $1***! IRISH GARDENS$!***!  
Alaska, New England, etc. for  COLLEGE PARK  
Applications for  details call: 1-800·807-5950 ext.  CONDOMINIUMS  IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME  BOOKSTORE XXIII:  
R5584.  -1/4 mile from library  NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS  
SOPHOMORE ClASS COUNCIL  -New appliances  REAL TV 272-6306,232-1466  Be a part of the ACTION! I  ONCE AGAIN ITS ON  
(Class of '97)  CRUISE SHIPS HIRING • Earn up  -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms  Contact John Neal@ 271-1706  
to $2000+/mo. on cruise ships or  -Washer & Dryer units  College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath,  or Mike Hanley @x1175 to be  It is I, the Coolest Guy in the  
are available in the Student  land-tour companies. World travel.  -Large closets  w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to  Universe, here to give you the scib­ 
Government Office!  Summer & full-time employment  -Covered parking  P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN  bidy scoop on the program:  
available. No exp necessary. For  -Security System .  46634  
April1-8  info call 1·206-634-0468 ext. C5584  -Large balconies  L'HOTEL DU DELTA  SATURDAY, TIERRA DEL FUEGO  
All applications due the 8th.  ---'Units now available  *** FOR SALE: 1983 FORD ***  222  
In great condition, with 60,000 m.  TO ALL THE MEN OF NOTRE  
Questions? Call John x1975  Companions tor summer trans-US  $660 per month ..... Going Quickly!!  $900 or best offer. Call 4-4091  DAME...MY ROOMMATE IS IN  All those in groover uniforms are  
bike tour 273-6109  ********CALL: 272-0691 ..........  SEARCH FOR A DRINKING  WELCOME  
SUMMER WORK-Eam $5,600 ,  '85 Alta Romeo Spider Convert.,  BUDDY...CALL JENNY X2574.  ...  
Resume' Experience, Advancement  5-speed, $2,900. Call 277-3068  Thank you.  
to management, travel, challenge.  1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES.  I!TODAY IS US~E THERE!!  
THE SOUTHWESTERN COMPA· NY SUMMER PROGRAM. Call 1·  GOLF COURSE NEEDS HARD· WORKING, CONSCIENTIOUS,  NEAR CAMPUS. AVAilABLE NOW & FALL. STARTING AT  TICKETS  SEA is helping a South Bend group  Friday nile with tour Aero Studs  
800-556-2402 for details.  EARLY RISERS FOR SEASONAL  $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER·  plant 1500 trees in the area.  
ILOST & FOUND I  EMPLOYMENT. 45 HAS/WEEK. EXP. PREF. GOLF PRIVIL.  TIES.272-6306  HELP!! I need extra grad. tix call PIER 273-4909  WE NEED HELP! Meet Sat at 8:15 at main circle. Dress appropriately. Bring a car if  1. Out of all seven layers, there's no cow in here? 2. That was so hot, I have the hic­ 
287-1996.  you have one. We will be back  cups.  
FOUND: long gold necklace with  Don't delay! Call today! Reserve  Attention!!!  around 1  3. So Mav, you're living alone in a  
small crucifix pendant. Found in  Are you INTERNING or WORKING  your Hertz Penske truck now to  The 'Big Dog' has a deal tor you !II  '1-man?'  
Debartolo studenVfaculty meeting  in WASHINGTON DC this sum­ make your move home this summer  I have two tickets to Tokyo, Japan!  4. Wait ·why are you ·····ering  
room 158. Call4·1675 to claim.  mer?  easier. Ask for Kelly or Judie at  Wait, there's more, much morel!  Fat man sittin' on a little stool,  people?  
2 females are looking for room·  291-1414 to help you schedule your  1) Round Trip Airfare (yee-hah)!!  Takes the money from my hand  5. We came, we conquered, we  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  mates or info on housing/apart·  move.  2) 3 Nights in a Downtown Hotel  while his eyes take a walk all over  
Help!!! A purple Columbia jacket  ments. Call Kelly x4270  3) one stop is allowed on the trip  you.  6. Tunnels? these aren't scary ...  
was taken from 126 Debartolo on  free of charge  7. Do you have some chalk?  I'll  
March 28 and I'm very cold.  I am  ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER  APT AVAILABLE FOR RENT  All these luxurious flying tidbits for  wait.  
offering a reward for its return or  EMPLOYMENT.  EARN UP TO  summer + 94-95 Hickory Village  the low price of $500 per ticket.  Happy Birthday Matt Janzaruk!  B. Hey Rak, wake up.  'Am I legal?'  
the return of my glasses.  Please  $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­ 5 min to ND: 200/mo util pd  Please Call:  -your London friends  9. You're so shallow!  
call Sean at 631·8839 to claim your  NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC.  w/roommates!  Rob 'da BIG DOG' Piecuch  10. It's midnight ·I'm buying a  
reward.  MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ 273-8369  x4328  ham.  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Found·  ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN· TEED SUCCESS! (919)929·4398  L.....-_F_o_R_s_AL_E_  __.I  I...._P_ER_s_o_N_AL_ ___,  Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP  Hey, man ... WHERE'S MY POP TART????  
Gold Bracelet at The Village  extA29.  LaFortune Student Center  
Landing on Friday March 25. Call  Phone 631-COPY  CAF ·-you're the bestl Hang in  
to identify@ x0915. Ask for Ryan.  MOVING SALE!! White leather  We are a young white Christian  there, and thanks for being a great  
AlASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  couch w/ Q-size fold-out bed,  couple in their thirties, who live far  friend. I know you don't have to be  
FOUND: Black Casio Watch on  ·Earn up to  home-entertainment center, coffee  away from the busy city life on 2000  Future Castle Point Renters:  reminded of this, but as Mama T  
4/4/94 in front of Fisher/Pangbom  $8,000+ in two months. Room &  table, a-size bed, dresser/mirror,  acres. Tremendous amount of love  don't get an apartment with a loft if  says • • 'Unless life is lived for  
on the quad. If it is yours call Erika  Board! Transportation! Male or  night stand, high-boy dresser,  is waiting for the special child we  you've got a selfish roommate living  others, it is not worthwhile. • Yours  
at 4-4059.  Female. No experience necessary!  glass/iron table w/ chairs & morel  look forward to adopting. Call Brent  in it!!!!!!  has definitely been worthwhile.  
Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584  Call 273-1984.  or Tina at 1-800·206-7727.  Love ya II :)  

.. ~: 
............... --...--­
~-------------~­
page 18  The Observer • SPORTS  Friday, April 8, 1994  
- Baseball  Toledo rallied to take a 3-2 lead. Toledo centerfielder Greg Keifer hit a hard grounder off  "Chris" shows toughness  
continued from page 24  the glove of Layson which bounced into right for a single.  By THOMAS BECHER Associated Press  type interview and, instead, I was put into what I felt was a  "Well, now I'm saying it to your face," Rome said.  
Restovich, who has started as  Another single from first  taunting attack.  Rome, smirking, refused to  
the designated hitter in all 12  baseman Joe Przeniczny and a  BRISTOL, Conn.  "I don't regret what I did. I  back down, let alone apologize.  
of Notre Dame's games against  pitch grazing  catcher Joel  ESPN said Thursday it will  mean, I have to live with the  That seemed to irk Everett even  
righthanded pitchers this sea­ Irvine loaded the bases to bring  not discipline interviewer Jim  actions and I'm prepared ·to  more.  
son, is enjoying the opportunity  up third baseman Mike King.  Rome for taunting New Orleans  faced whatever repercussions  "I bet you  won't  say  it  
to play.  After  umpire  Ron  Wenz  Saints quarterback Jim Everett  there are.  I think that in the  again," Everett said.  
The sophomore is hitting .273  called a ball on what appeared  during  a  live  broadcast,  future I hope that I can learn  Rome did.  
with seven RBis and two dou­ to be strike three, King drilled  prompting Everett to physically  something from this incident  The 6-foot-5 quarterback  
bles for the year.  the next pitch down the third  attack him.  and that I can be a little more  then stood up, placed his hand  
The win lifted Notre Dame's  base line for a three-run dou­ During the  interview  on  prepared, not only on what I'm  on the round table that sepa­ 
record to 9-7 while Toledo  ble.  ESPN2 broadcast Wednesday  doing in an interview but also  rated the two and smashed it  
dropped to 6-10.  Restovich and the Irish came  night, Everett lost his temper  who's interviewing me."  over into Rome. As Rome top­ 
Murphy was happy to get the  out with a vengeance in the  when Rome called him "Chris  Rome  said  Everett  was  pled, Everett jumped on him.  
win after a tough weekend se­ bottom of the eighth. After right  Evert" several times, even after  aware  he  would  be  called  No punches appeared to be  
ries against Miami and two  fielder Ryan Topham walked,  Everett asked him stop.  "Chris Evert" on the air.  thrown.  
canceled games this week.  Kent hit his second double of  "We're not proud of what  "I have to say it was not with  Everett was traded from the  
"We needed it," said Murphy  the day into the corner in left  happened," John Walsh, exec­ malice," Rome said. "It was all  Los Angeles Rams to the Saints  
who is hoping to win  against  field to score Topham and tie  utive editor of ESPN, said dur­ in good fun. There was some  after last season. Some of his  
Conference foe Xavier this  the score.  ing a conference call. "We re­ jousting. It got out of hand.  critics, including Rome, have  
weekend. "We can't be upset  Restovich followed the one­ gret the incident occurred, as  That's regrettable."  questioned  his  toughness,  
about a 5-3 victory."  out double by driving a  2-1  I'm sure Jim Everett did."  Shortly after Everett came  mocking him as "Chris Evert"  
Senior Tom Price picked up  pitch over the right field wall  But, in a conference call to  on the show "Talk 2," at a stu­ -a dubious analogy consider­ 
his fifth win of the year with a  for his second homer of the  the Saints camp from his home  dio in California, he and Rome  ing  Evert  was  one  of  the  
complete game giving up three  year and a 5-3 lead.  in Las Vegas,  Everett said  exchanged pleasantries. But  fiercest competitors in tennis  
runs on eight hits. Price (5-2)  Toledo  starter  Jason  Thursday night he was pro­ moments later, Rome began  history.  
who has only walked two bat­ Bloomer (0-2) went 7.1 innings  voked by Rome and he had no  referring to him as "Chris Ev­ The incident  was  shown  
ters  this year had another  giving up five runs on five hits  regrets. A Saints spokesman  ert."  again on television stations  
walk-free game while striking  while walking eight and strik­ said the call was arranged so  The quarterback immedi­ around the country. ESPN2, a  
out five.  ing out seven.  Everett could give his side of  ately took issue, and became  spinoff of the cable network  
Notre Dame took a 2-0 lead  Kent contributed two of the  what happened.  increasingly irritated as Rome  ESPN, began broadcasting last  
in  the  second  inning  on  Irish hits with a pair of doubles  "Number one, I don't con­ persisted with his banter. Ev­ October.  
Twombley's  blast  after  and Layson added another two­ done the physical abuse-type  erett warned him not to do it  "ESPN2 is a different net­ 
Restovich walked to open the  bagger, but it was the home  thing," Everett said. "I really  again.  work and Jim's method of in­ 
inning.  runs  of  Twombley  and  don't condone my actions, but I  "You better take a station  terviewing and questioning is  
Price shut down the Rockets'  Restovich that hurt Bloomer  was put in a position that I was  break," Everett said. "You've  different," Walsh said. "There's  
offense through six innings, but  the most.  going to be in a journalistic- been talking behind my back."  a surprise element."  
SPORTS BRIEFS  
are  
ed for the 1994-9!) school year.  Women's  Booksto  
Jfyou haye ~x~~ri~pce in Step  Basketball!! Sign ups will  
··. ·A~robics, Hig~A~.JJow h"ltensity:'il,: Monday from (ito 8 on the  
....~ .... .-. ..,f'., Office prior to the  Aerobics. Water. Aerobics. or other disciplln~~r and would lik_e to teach fqr''RecSports, call 631-5100 for information.  ·floor of LaFortune by the info. desk. Registration is $7 p team. Last chance to register!!!  
Call  631-5100•.9 Tryoutswillbeheldt\.p,rll 15th. ~fn';::.::' ... · .......=fp=n:>r.~·:.  ,_::.·:~.;'kt  

Roasted to a superb flavor with savory Aztec spices--moist and tender! 
Available 7 days a Week Eat in or Take Out 11:00 am-2:00pm 4:00 pm -7:00 pm 
THE OAK ROOM 
in South Dining Hall 631-8638 
Take some home or the family 

Friday, AprilS, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
Rare photo of Gipp found 

ByAMYYUHN 
Associated Press 
MADISON HEIGHTS, Mich. 
Don Gange loves sports. One look at his basement proves that. 
A row of old, wooden seats removed from Tiger Stadium lines one wall. A framed Sports Illustrated cover from Aug. 19, 1985, autographed by Pete Rose, hangs above the seats. 
But for 20 years, an unusual piece of baseball memorabilia was stored a box in Gange's at­tic and he didn't even know it was there. 
Gange in February found a postcard-sized composite photo of the 1915 Upper Peninsula Champions from Calumet-Lau­California on Thursday in hopes of delivering the card to Reagan, along with a hockey puck signed to Reagan from Gordie Howe and jersey made by the Detroit Red Wings with Reagan's name. 
Reagan's office would not confirm the trip. 
Gange has the card because his great-grandfather, Matt Nicolai, was a teammate of Gipp's. He found it when he dragged boxes of his great­grandfather's old sports mem­orabilia out of the attic for a co­worker. 
"The first thing that went through my mind was that this might be the only one in the world," Gange said. 
Officials at the Baseball Hall Lenore Chelland, who helped her husband research the bi­ography. 
Gange's card is similar to the 1919 photo reproduced in Chelland's book. It has 10 oval­shaped photos of straight-faced men against a black back­ground. 
Gipp's first organized base­ball team was the 1915 cham­pionship team, according to Chelland. 
Neither Gange's great­grandfather nor Gipp ever reached a big league field. Matt Nicolai left the Upper Peninsula when Henry Ford was promis­ing $5 a day to autoworkers. He died in 1974. 
Gipp left the Upper Penin­sula and headed to Notre Dame on a baseball scholarship. Upon meeting Rockne for the first time, Gipp reportedly said, "Baseball's my game." 
But his football skills im­pressed Rockne and Gipp went on to become one of the Fight­ing Irish's legendary players. 
Gipp died in 1920 at age 25 from a throat infection con­tracted during a Notre Dame­Northwestern football game. His death sparked one of the most legendary motivational speeches in sports history. On his deathbed, Gipp reportedly told Rockne, "Win just one for th!) Gipper." 
Gange found Gipp's photo in a box with newspaper clippings from Rockne's era; baseball cards of Earle Combs, Pie Traynor and Heinie Manush; and other things his great­grandfather had saved. 
"Naturally. I thought about money because baseball cards are a big business," Gange said. 
rium -including center fielder of Fame could not confirm the 
George Gipp. rarity of the card without see­
Although first a baseball ing it, said research assistant player, Gipp is better known as Thomas Craig. a Notre Dame football player But a Gipp biography called and for his deathbed plea, "Win "One for the Gipper," published just one for the Gipper." in the mid-1970s, included 
Former President Ronald what author Patrick Chelland Reagan uttered that line when believed was the only known he played Gipp in the 1940 film, photo of Gipp at the time. "Knute Rockne, All-American." "He was camera shy. That's Gange planned to fly to just the way he was," said 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
AUREOLE flute, violin & harp ensemble 
winners of the 1989 Fischoff Chamber Music Competition 
performing music of Sir Arnold Bax, Harald Genzmer Maurice Ravel and Claude Debussy 
Sunday, April10, 1994 2:00p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art $5 -General Admission, $2-Students & Senior Citizens 
~~rwo THuMBs uP, w~ UP!" 
-G;NI Si!KIL KOGER U!~T. mKF.I. 5. UF.RT 
UITHE lOY lUCK CLUB' IS BOTH SWEEPir\G ANO INTIMATE. T~ESE ARE GRJPPING STORIES. ELO®ENTLYTOLD.' 
-I.<Nil' MAlliN TI-l! N!l> VO~K TiM!> 
"A FOURFOLD TERMS OF ENDEARMENT: 
THE TYPHOON OF EMOTIONS MAKES THIS 
M EtGHT·H..I..'JDKERCHIEF MOV:E~ 
• ~CHARP <.:OUSS. TIM! .\IAC1A71N!' 
"IN AWORD, GREAT! AN EXTRAORDINARY FILM IN EVERY WAr:' 
-JOEL liWELvWll MORNIN(.i ,\M!t.,-A 
1\N OLIVt:R:ST0NE 
PRODUCTION 
-ntE 
JOY 
LUCKCLUIJ 
liAS ED UPON THE NOVEL 
BYAMYTAN 
""".i'V"',r-. PICTURES-.OLIVER STONI::­)OY 1,\..ICKCWB" i;;OLJV.ER.STONE 
TAN '"I AMY TAN & RONALD BASS itONAlD BASS PATI\ICK -:WAYNE WI\NC 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 CALL 63t..r361 FOR TIMES AND DATES 
FOR ALL CINEMA AT mE SNITE FILMS 

Intensive strategy review at less than half the cost ofother Programs. 
IUSB Continuing Education 1700 Mishawaka Ave. 
Call 237-4261 
Red Sox continue to pound out the hits 
Associated Press 
The Red Sox had seven more extra-base hits, including homers by Mike Greenwell, Andre Dawson and Tim Naehring, as they completed a season-opening, three-game sweep and won 12-4. 
Of Boston's 30 hits this sea­son, 16 have been for extra bases. 
Danny Darwin (1-0) allowed three runs and seven hits in five innings. Tim Belcher (0-1) was chased after 3 1-3 innings. He gave up five runs and nine hits. 
Brewers 12, Athletics 2 
Bill Wegman won his first game since last May 30, and 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1995-96. All freshmen, sophomores and juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A James McAdams on Wednesday evening, April13, 1994 at 7:00pm in room 131 DeBartolo 
John Jaha and Kevin Seitzer both hit two-run homers. 
Wegman, who lost his last seven decisions in 1993 and went 4-14, allowed only an un­earned run and and five hits in seven innings as Milwaukee got 14 hits and beat Oakland for the 11th consecutive time at home. 
Oakland starter Ron Darling allowed five runs and eight hits in four-plus innings. 
Indians 6, Mariners 2 

Jack Morris, coming off his worst season, pitched five scoreless innings before falter­ing in the sixth. 
The game was the first at night under the vertical, tooth­brush-shaped lights at new Ja­cobs Field. The Indians im­
London 
Paris $293* 
Frankfurt $293* 
Rome $355* 
Athens $355* 
'fa-tS '"" cr< Wfif fran Chica9:> bos<d on rCill1drip P'J'• cho!t. lltWdions •pply t.xtS'"" rd iocluded and flrrs in subject lo clwlgt. G!ll k1 oo-.rv.a\a,.,.;dr: ckStilations. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 
... 
GRE Review Thursdays 6-10 p.m. begins April 28 
GMATReview LSAT Review 
Wednesdays Tues. & Thurs. 
6· 10 p.m. 6· 10 p.m. 
begins May 18 begins April 28 


page 20 



Irish will be ready 
for Xavier 
By Dylan Barmmec S orrs Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play host to the Xavier Musketeers in a four game series this weekend. This matchup of MCC teams will mark the first four game series in the brief history of Frank Eck Stadium, and may prove to be a crucial step in Notre Dame's season. 
The 9-7 Irish are still looking to get into top form, and their progress as of late has been de­layed by the harsh April South Bend weather. After being swept by national powerhouse Miami in a three game series last weekend, an April snow­storm forced the Irish to post-
one their game against Bowl­ing Green on Tuesday and can­cel their matchup against Illi­nois on Wednesday, before fi­nally seeing action in a game against Toledo last night. 
Not exactly baseball weather. But while South Bend anxiously awaits the coming of a tradi­tionally late spring, head coach Pat Murphy and his Irish squad are growing tired of waiting. 
They've got baseball to play; lots of it, and one has to think that Murphy would play through a driving snowstorm if need be this weekend. 
Hopefully, that will not be the case, and the only storm the Irish will have to weather will occur on the diamond. 
Xavier does not look capable of blowing the Irish out of Frank Eck Stadium, however, although they have played well as of late. The 10-17 Muske­teers come into the series hav­ing won three of their last five games, including a two game sweep of Evansville. The Mus­keteers are 2-0 in the MCC, as are the Irish. 
Individually, there are no marquee players on this Xavier squad, which Murphy calls "the best team Xavier's ever had," but there are at least three Musketeers who could spell trouble for the Irish. 
Sophomore outfielder Chuck Crocker may be the deadliest Musketeer at the plate. The Cincinnati native has done a fine job as Xavier's lead off hit­ter, and currently leads the team in hitting with a .319 av­erage. In 27 games, Crocker has drawn 32 walks, good enough to give him a team high .538 on base percentage. 

Second baseman Sean West has been the most prolific run producer for the Musketeers, having driven in a team high 20 runs while batting .272 with a team-leading 28 hits. The sophomore second sacker also leads the team in at bats, runs, and doubles, and is third on the team with two home runs. 
The Musketeer pitching staf boasts a bloated 6.55 team ERA, but that may be a bit de­ceptive. Freshman Vince Fiore, who comes into this series 2-6 with a sky high 7.22 ERA has thrown well of late, having won his last two outings. 
Fiore has nearly gone the dis­tance in those two starts, pitch­ing in 17 1/3 innings. The rapidly improving freshman has only surrendered six hits and four earned runs over those last two starts, and leads the Musketeer staff with a 2.0 strike out to walk ratio. 
Junior lefthander Bobby Bevel has also shown promise, going 2-4 with a 5.44 ERA. and sophomore Brandon DeVault leads the staff with a 4-1 mark and a 3.06 ERA. The big righthander has been used pri­marily in relief by the Mus­keteers, and has collected two saves while holding opponents to a .231 batting average. 
Notre Dame's come back win against Toledo injected new life into a previously somber club­house, and a solid performance in this series could be the spark the Irish need to catch fire. 
Murphy definitely sees this Xavier team as a threat, and knows this series is a big one for the Irish. 
"This is a spirited Xavier team with new blood," com­mented Murphy. They're confi­dent, and they believe they can play. They have good pitching, and good team speed. Both Fiore and Bevel throw well." 

By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 

On the strength of two victo­ries over Easter break, the Notre Dame lacrosse team has climbed to the 16th spot in the USILA poll. The Irish will look to keep it rolling this Saturday at 2 when they host the Pan­thers of Adelphi. 
The Panthers are the defend­ing Division II champions, yet are relatively inexperienced, with just three starters return­ing from last season. Still, the perennial power should be ready to challenge the Irish. 
"They're a solid group of guys," said Notre Dame tri-cap­tain Randy Colley. "They've played their whole lives. The game should be very competi­tive." 
Colley may prove himself wrong if he continues to play like he has in the last three games. During this stretch, the senior attackman has notched 12 goals. The three opponents have only combined for seven more. 
Even on the remote chance that Colley has an off day his play thus far will require the Panthers to shut him off, thus attracting enough attention so that his teammates will have more room to operate. 
"We've seen that happen be­fore," said Colley. "We'll see what happens. All I know is that we'll take what they give us" 
That philosophy has worked well thus far, especially for Hobbie Snyder. Snyder has tal­lied 14 goals through the first six games, in addition to 10 as­sists. In fact, the senior attack duo of he and Colley have com­bined for 33 of the 68 Irish goals. 
With two players scoring that high of a percentage of Notre Dame goals, one would think balance would be a problem for coach Kevin Corrigan's charges. Surprisingly, that re­ally has not been the case. 
In the past two games (victo­ries over Hobart and Canisius), seven different players scored at least once. Freshman Bill Hogan led the seven with three. 
"The whole team has gotten things together recently," noted Colley. 
"We've overcome the early injuries and are making it work. Hopefully we'll keep it going against Adelphi." 

IRISH CCENT 


NOTRE 0AME1S .. COMEDY IMPROV TROUPE 
SHOW 
e MONDAY, APRIL 11 
9 P.M. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM ADMISSION $1 
Congratulations! 
The Student Union Board is still accepting applications for the 1995 Sophomore Literary Festival-pick them up in the SUB office, second floor of LaFortune. The deadline for the applications is April 8th. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

---------~---­·-~-~---·­ ~~-----~~--­ 
..·  
Friday, April 8, 1994  The Observer • SPORTS  page 21  


The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
Sophomore James Pun and the Irish hope to continue their rise in the rankings with victories over Miami (Fia) and Minnesota this weekend. 
Pr/~Pr/~ 
The At Work Program~ Open Meeting 


Tuesda~April 12,1994 Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 12:10-12:40 p.m. 
10-Week session begins Tuesday April 26th! 
Call Peggy, by Apr. 18th, at 1-5389 to register! 
Q 1994 Weight Watchen International, lne. All rights rcscrwd. WEIGHT WATCHERS end THE AT WORK PROGRAM are registered trademarks ofWeight Watchers International, lne. 
Hey 
Its time to shine for Irish· 
By PHIL LANGER 
SportS Writer 
With 'March Madness' over, it's time to shine the spotlight on the 16th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team as tl~ey pre­pare for two crucial matches at home against No. 10 Miami (Fla) and 26th-ranked Minnesota, Saturday and Sun­day in the Eck at 1 p.m. re­spectively. 
Both of these matches are much more than personal vendettas. The Golden Go­phers, the defending big ten champions, desperately want to upset the Irish who have kept them out of the NCAA tourna­ment the last three years. It's seemingly Minnesota's obses­sion; somewhat like that of USC football coach John Robinson. 
"Minnesota is a good team," said sophomore Jason Pun, "It will be real important match for the seeding in the NCAA Midwest regional playoffs in May. That will be one of the biggest matches of the year because we always seem to have tough ones with them." 
Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss could only agree with his No. 6 singles player, Jason Pun, who has shocked both his coach and teammates with his consistent heroics. "Minnesota is undefeated in the big ten," said Bayliss, "they serve and volley extremely well. We will have to play our best match." 
Miami, on the other hand, probably doesn't have vengeance on their mind but absolute Irish destruction. The infamous rivalry between the two schools needs no explana­tion. It will take Notre Dame's best effort to upset the Hurri­canes who have several foreign players with international and professional tour experience. 
"I will be surprised," com­mented Bayliss, "if both match­es aren't 4-3 for somebody. can only hope that we get the 4." 
Notre Dame will have to win the doubles point if they plan on squeaking by two extremely talented and battle-tested teams. 
"We definitely need to keep getting the doubles point," re­marked freshman Ryan Simme, "It will be a deciding factor in a lot of matches against top teams because our singles line­up is good enough to split with anyone." 
Wingfield to enter NBA draft 
By TERRY KINNEY 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

Freshman Dontonio Wing­field, who led a youthful Uni­versity of Cincinnati team to the NCAA tournament, is leaving after just one year to pursue a lifelong dream -the NBA. 
"This isn't something I just thought about for a day or two. It's something I've thought about my whole life," Wing­field, 19, said Thursday. 
"When I was playing college ball, the thought never left my mind that I wanted to play pro ball. It's just a career move, that's all." 
Wingfield led his high school to four state championships and came to Cincinnati from Albany, Ga., as the Bearcats' most highly publicized recruit since Oscar Robertson. 
At 6-foot-8 and 250 pounds, he was the Bearcats' leading rebounder with nine a game and second leading scorer with 16 points a game. 
But he also let his temper get the best of him, and coach Bob Huggins benched him sev­eral times following outbursts. He was suspended for one game for missing class. 
Wingfield had the size to bol­ster the Bearcats' inside game, but also had the shooting touch to hit 44 3-pointers. 
He not only was the dominant player on a mostly freshman team that finished 22-10, he was the top freshman scorer (465 points} and rebounder 
(260) in the Great Midwest and was named Newcomer of the Year. 
Huggins said he talked with Wingfield about a move to the NBA and he supported Wing­field's decision because only Wingfield can decide what's best for him. 
He said he knew when he recruited Wingfield that he might not' stay in scqool all four years. 
"That's college basketball today," Huggins said. "When you recruit somebody of Don's talent you have to take that into consideration. 
"You try to do what's best, you try to do what's right ­that's all you can do. You want everybody to graduate, and you want everybody to have oppor­tunities. As Don said, he's going to have the wherewithal to come back and graduate." 
Wingfield said he had stopped going to classes, that his draft declaration was irre­vocable and that he would re­turn to finish college at some later time. 
"I thank the University of Cincinnati for allowing me to compete this year," Wingfield said. "But I have an ultimate goal ... to play professional bas­ketbalL" 
Ron Grinker, a Cincinnati at­torney who represents some NBA players, predicted that Wingfield would be a first­round pick in the June draft. 
"You can't name 10 senior players the NBA is very excited about," Grinker told The Cincinnati Enquirer. 
Sophomores! 
Get involved with 

Applications for the JPW Executive CommiHee available at LaFortune Information Desk. 
Due by Wednesday, April J31 
The FACULTY Series 
Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome 
TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
"ENDING WELFARE REFORM as we know it: Facts and Fantasy" 
A conversation with 
David Betson  and  Joan Aldous  
Hesburgh Program  Kenan Chair  
in Public Service  in Sociology  
Tuesday, April 12  

7:30p.m. at The Center for Social Concerns 
Sponsored by: The Department ofTheology The Centerfor Social Concerns The Office ofCampus Ministry 
--Light Refreshments willfollow-­
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, Apri\8, 1994 
,---------------------------------------~~~~----­
ing games and another couple of hours figuring out results.
CoiDinish 
The head commissioner might put in up to eight hours a day
continued from page 24 

to make sure things run at all," commented Bieg. "It smoothly. 
1. 
NBT 


2. 
Coming From Behind II 

3. 
Headbangers 


4. 
Ebony Side of the Dome 

5. 
Bullseye Discount Liquor 

6. 
Majestic Silverbacks 

7. 
Sudden Death 

8. 
Vito's Barber Shop 


9. 
Malicious Prosecution 

10. 
Magnolia Thunder 

11. 
Rebel Alliance 

12. 
White Shadow 


13. 
Unfrozen Cavemen 

14. 
Dos Kloskas 

15. 
Hot Grits A Flyin' 


16. 
John Kruk' Ball Club 


17. 
The Torch 

18. 
Salty Dogs 

19. 
Meglipian (Angus) Society 

20. 
Showtime 

21. 
The Good, The Bad, and the Laundry 

22. 
No Clue 

23. 
Hot Fudge 

24. 
The Hood River Bandits 

25. 
R.S.V.P. 

26. 
L-Train 

27. 
All The President's Men 

28. 
Women ... Pass the Beernuts IV 

29. 
Pink Sky in Morning 

30. 
Old Dirty Bastards 31. Prop. 48 


32. Woody and the Four Stiffs 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
serious hoopsters competed in the tourney. However, as the popularity grew, so too expand­ed the number of teams, espe­cially those with the unique names or uniforms that have no interest in winning. 
It is the preliminaries and the round of 512 where these teams steal the spotlight. The talented teams will have their moments in the weeks to come, but this first week is dominated by teams playing for pride, for fun, or for reasons unbe­knownst even to themselves. 
"We wanted to enter because it's such a big deal here," stated senior Anne Marie Tomley, who will lead The Sisters into their first ever tournament action. "Realistically, we think we'll lose in the first round." 
However, even with such a bleak outlook, Tomley said her squad is considering a state­ment that would set it apart. "We were going to wear black towels on our heads, but that doesn't look too likely any­more." 
The first rounds are filled with teams that will try any­thing to get attention. Perhaps 
Dudes 'n' D 
~estern ~arehouse 
S 1 S S. Michigan St. 
[Just South at Sampla St] 
South Send 

the most mtereshng team of the preliminaries went by the abridged name Jesus McKinley and the Rotund Weeds. This crew, the inspiration of senior Kevin Fleming, brought Jesus and his four hooping disciples into the twentieth century, playing decked out in wigs and camel-hair. 
"One player, Mark Poisella, is known for having a striking re­semblance to Christ," explained Fleming. "We're hoping to be picked for the Hall of Fame game." 
The antics of Jesus & Co. in­cluded a "Thou shalt not steal!" command after a quick pick off the dribble by Luke, and a cho­rus of "Hail, King of the Jews" for every Jesus basket. For those of you scoring at home, Judas scored the winning buck­et -for the other team. 
Another team to watch will be the Helmet Night(mares), who will compete under the protec­tion of various headgear, rang­ing from hockey helmets to motorcycle helmets. 
"It started as a Thursday night tradition of walking around campus, and it steadily grew from there," explained sophomore captain Mike John­son. "We believe the helmets give us special power." 
Despite the attraction, John­
cmve® 
The Way To Wear The WestTM 
son and fils team are there to play. "We want to entertain, but we also want to win," he added. 
The first round also holds the unexpected, especially for freshmen teams experiencing Bookstore for the first time. 
"We heard it's something we had to do, no matter how good or bad we were," stated fresh­man Ted Bills, captain of 12 Inches of Vertical. 
However, most frosh don't delude themselves with visions of grandeur. "We play a No. 1 seed (NBT), so it should be quick and painless," Bills con­tinued. 
Not everyone treats the first round with such non-chalance, however. Many view Bookstore as a life and death matter, especially seniors who are fac­ing their last chance for glory. 
"Some of us have been to­gether for four years," said senior Travis Cooley, whose Team 92 rolled 21-6 over Stanford's Sons in the prelims. "We've not been lucky in the past with our draw, so we'll try to capitalize this year. Obvi­ously, we want to win as many as possible." 
For some, though, the first round games are only a for­mality. Thirty-two teams were seeded by the commissioners, 
_____..,e ®® ~@)@)~~ 
to Choose From 
was pretty shocking to get head commish, but it should be real exciting." 
This year's "Road to Stepan" began in early February when the assistant commissioners were selected. An application and an interview were required for the nine new positions. Previous commissioners keep their job unless they graduate or retire. Sinn compares the position to a Supreme Court Justice's. 
The new commissioners were selected from a pool of 45 students who applied for the job. The common denominator for the all the commissioners is a love for the game. 
"If you don't like basketball, this is not the job for you," said junior Dan McKenna, a second year assistant commissioner. 
One of the drawbacks of the job is the time commitment and the weather conditions that create havoc in the early rounds. A normal day for an assistant commissioner might include four hours of oversee­
"You just have to adjust study hours and get used to studying at weird hours," said Albrighton. "It's a big time commitment, but the people make it worth it." 
Another important part of wearing the green jacket that says "Bookstore Basketball" on the back is crowd control. As the games become more in­tense and the field of 592 shrinks down to a final four, the commissioners need to keep things in order. 
When the final shot falls on April 23 at Stepan, the com­missioners will be able to sit courtside and enjoy a final game to a tournament that they put together. Till that final game, the tournament will be played by all and organized by a select few. If things go well, the commissioners will realize their contributions. 
"If the tournament goes well, and people have fun play­ing, I'll receive satisfaction in the fact that I was a part of it," concluded Bieg. 
and are the favontes to ad­vance to the coveted round of 64. 
"We're taking the opening rounds very seriously," stated Paul Ferguson of No. 7 Sudden Death, a team featuring varsity basketball player Jon Ross. "We haven't played together very much, so we look at these games as a way to get a solid base and see how each person plays. 
"Last year we were seeded 27th, so I was glad to see us get such a high seed this year," he continued. "I think we're one of the better teams out there." 
Still, the moments for Sudden Death and the other chosen 32 will come. For the next week, it is the unheralded squads play­ing purely for enjoyment that will steal the show. 

MAI~IGOLD 
MARKET 
IPtAN AHEADfoR YovR G-'RPDUATION 
CEtEERATION 


PARTY PlATTERS Hor<s D'oe:uvRES 
BRUNCH OR IJUNCHEON -----·~ ---­
~~ 

CONTACT OUR CATERING DEPARTMENT LAST Ml NUTE PART'{ PLATTERS AVAILABLE 

~-------~--~-------------­
-J .; • 

Friday, April 8, 1994 
page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
ELSE.WH~I<E, 1-\ANK <5\JDOE:Nt
YES. PER HA.Ps IT IS 
fJETS ONE. OF 11-\-0££.
TlME Yotl KNM· AGIHoUC.fl, 
SINI<.IN&, FE£LINb.S.I'f'll HURT )1?(.) HAVEN'T Fl bURED IT our YeT. 5VRW( YoU H AV£N'T 
FOR~OTTEN... 

~ 
BILL WATTERSON CALVIN AND HOBBES 
11{\\0 WRI\ES TI-\ES£ D\Jtv\B 1\.l\NG'S ~~Wt>.'{? 
g J; 
~ 
~ 
Q 

~~~------------------------~t~8 L-------------------------~~-------~ 
DAVE KELLETT 
OF INTEREST 





A 
ACROSS 37 In a managerial 61 Land, as a fish position to 63 Back
1 Kind of file 38 Self-diagnosis? 64 To be, abroad 7Dupe 40 Fancy 65 Kind of kick 11 Vacation spot 41 It's bleu on 66 Of course 14 Razz 
maps 67 U.S. Army 15 Speed 
medals42 "Steve Allen 
16 Total cost 68 Camera-shy
Show" veteran 17 Dear ones critter?
43 Detach, in a way 18 Come before 
44 Hyde Park sight 20 Psychiatrist? 
46 "The Last Time I DOWN 
22 Mirror image? 
Saw Paris" 23 Pain of a sort composer 
1 Forbes competition
24 Express 48 Oxygenators 2 Nostalgic soft 25 Cookout fare 49 Sci-fi objects drink name 28 Bus starter 51 Shopper's 3 Boy Scout's act 30 Actor Jannings helper 
4 One who makes 34Canter 53 Where one is in 
personal plugs? 35 Re-election 5"­
the stadium? runners 56 Personal Restaurant" 36"-to 6 Condor condos 
revelation? Psyche" 59 Stove stuffing 7 Tangle (with) 
aAx 

9 Demonstrator's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE doctrine 
,......,...-r-"T""""t 10 "With Reagan: The Inside 
Puzzle by Bob Lubbers Story" author 
31 Display 48 "Brighton Rock" 56 Time in "Julius 11 Dateless 
novelist Caesar"

32 Standard
~-t:-t-:-1 12 Orbit 
so Say "I do" again 57 Boola-boola
33 Is attracted 13 Help 
52 Splatter cheerers
38 Section in a19 Urgent 
safeguard 58"-,

psychological21 Native test 53 Questionable Pagliaccio"
~-+:-+'=-~ Nebraskan 39 This puzzle's 54 Cassino cash 60 Killer of the
24 Sigmund's =+~:+:-+=-! daughter punning theme 55 Romance deep 25 Tiptoe's 40 Self-defense symbol 62 Formerly opposi~e testifier? ~~,:+:-+-.,-~ 26 Fly like· a flying 45 Make a 
Get answers to any three clues 
saucer proposal 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
~,-+-"""'=-r=-1 27 Works 47 Sergeant major: ...........__._......_....._. 29 Party Abbr. 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Colle~:iate Jazz Festival 
Rudy 
.J.·
Friday & Saturday 
Spm & 10:30pm Stepan Center 
Cushing Auditorium
Session 1 begins 
Admission $2 ~~~
at 7:30pm 
llnJDZNT 'VN110:N-­
crazy stuff and more! 

SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, April 8, 1994 
.. 
..,.. 
,. 
..: ......

Expect more from. • • 
Opening rounds more fun than friction 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Spores Editor 

Bookstore Basketball cannot be 
defmed as a tournament. 

This may come as a revelation to the 
592 teams that signed up for Bookstore 
Basketball XXIII. However, the bracket is a 
mere formality. The essence of Bookstore is 
found in the players themselves. 

"We'd like to see even more people out there," senior commissioner John 
Neal. "The tradition has grown to where everyone wants to be a part of it. The 
idea is to get out with your buddies and make Bookstore as much fun as you 
can." 

Over the next two weeks, the courts of Stepan. Bookstore, and Lyons will be 
overflowing with members of the Notre Dame community hoping to withdraw 
from their allotted 15 minutes of fame. 
In the early years of Bookstore, a field of only 64 teams comprised of fairly 
see BOOKSTORE/ page 22 
For commissioners work i play 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA head commissioner emeritus, calls 
Spores Writer Bookstore one of the most exciting 
events at Notre Dame. 
When students think of Bookstore "It's a lot of fun to come out here 
Basketball they tend to think of tradi­and watch good basketball," said Sinn. 
tion, team names, favorites, and the "The major requirement for the job is 
weather. There is a group of 20 stu­a love of the game." 
dents that think about a couple more Since this is his third year as head 
things like scheduling, court times and commissioner, Sinn takes on the role 
crowd control. They are the Head and of a guide to sophomore head commis­
Assistant Commissioners of Bookstore sioner Greg Bieg. Bieg applied for the 
Basketball. job and was shocked to find out that 
This year's cast is made up of one he was named as head man. 
graduate student, five seniors, six "I didn't know about my chances at 
juniors, seven sophomores, and one all," commented Bieg. "It was pretty 
freshman. Andy Sinn, a senior, who 
begins his third year on the job as see COMMISH I page 22 

Rookies power Irish in win 
Two of the baseball team's rookies helped the Irish pull off a 5-3 come from behind win against Toledo last night at Frank Eck 
Freshman catcher Dennis Twombley's first collegiate home run gave the Irish an early lead in the game. Twombley sent the long ball ricocheting off the hitter's screen in straight­away center after coach Pat Murphy told him to look fastball on the first pitch. 
Twombley, .a fourth round draft pick of the Chicago White Sox last year, was happy to see 
"I saw it coming in and said, 'Hey, Murph was right.'," said Twombley whose mother was in the stands all the way from San Diego. "Everyone was laughing about me smiling 

The Observer/Kyle Kuzek Sanior Tom Price pitched a complete game and won his fifth game as the Irish triumphed 5-3. 
around the bases." 
Notre Dame designated hitter George Restovich who did not see any playing time last year put the Irish ahead for good in the game with a two-run dinger of his own in the bottom of the eighth inning. 
see BASEBALL I page # 










