--------~----------------------------~-----­

By ELIZABETH REGAN nor do we provide substitutes," majors have been called in to up," said senior accounting ers feel so strongly because Saint Mary's News Editor she said. "The policy is set up sub since the strike began, ac­major Tim Gilroy. "Even they know these teachers well to protect (our) students." cording to senior Marissa though I am subbing, I hope and support them fully," 
Thursday's decision by South The policy, established in Olivieri. that teachers get what they . Olivieri said. Bend school teachers to strike 1991, was set up when teachers "I received a message on my want." for a three percent wage in­threatened to strike in the fall answering machine trying to Frontlash, a national student crease has affected more than of that year. get a sub list together in order Gilroy,.a 7th and 8th grade group working to bring stu­just the students, teachers, and to ensure that the schools could substitute teacher at Edison dents and labor together, an­school board -it has also af­"Strikes are not a comfort­remain open," she said. Middle School, started Friday nounced its support for the fected Saint Mary's and Notre able situation," Freeberg said. and plans to continue subbing striking South Bend teachers, Dame students. "It is easy for (our) students to No education majors have next week. according to Saint Mary's junior 
Saint Mary's student teachers be manipulated and there are been found in violation of the Teachers told their students Jennifer O'Dell. and observers have been un­psychological aspects that can policy, according to Freeberg. to be disruptive during the able to enter their classrooms be damaging to the student Although education majors strike, Gilroy said. "The teachers, who have since the strike began due to teachers." are forbidden to cross the pick­been working without a con­the Education Department's Student teachers have been et line, many Notre Dame stu­"One teacher even offered tract since the beginning of the policy regarding strikes. aware of the policy since they dents are taking advantage of candy bars to kids who were school year, have finally gone 
began their training, according the monetary benefits of substi­disruptive enough to be placed out on strike to achieve dignity. 
The Education Department to senior Courtney Swift. tute teaching. into in-school suspension," he This is really a struggle for maintains a neutral position if a "This (the strike) is hard be­said. "But I didn't fmd the kids moral justice," said O'Dell. "The school system becomes involved cause my teacher stayed in, but Any college student with over any more disruptive than they Church has long stood up for in a management -labor con­it (the policy) does put us in the 60 hours is eligible to substitute usually would be." the dignity and human rights flict, according to chair of the best position," she said. "The teach in the South Bend school The subbing by Notre Dame of working people. I think that Education Department Karilee policy is in our best interest." system. students is upsetting to some students who would scab Freeberg. "I am subbing basically be­Saint Mary's students. haven't considered the moral 
"We do not cross picket lines, Many Elementary Education cause spring break is coming "Saint Mary's student teach-view." 
Candidates' campaigns focusing on aspect of fun 
By JASON WILLIAMS "By putting them in office, the News Writer student body showed that they were ready for change and new Fun seems to be the operative ideas," Harron said. "We feel it campaign word in this year's, would be a great opportunity to student government elections. help bring their ideas to cam­
Ever since Dave Hungeling pus." and Matt Orsagh captured the McCarthy said Orsagh, a student body presidential and close friend of McCarthy's, vice-presidential spots on a asked him to run for south platform that consisted of quad senator. bringing the Grateful Dead to "I'm running to help a friend campus and giving students (Orsagh) of mine so he can free football tickets, other stu­have some help with imple­dents seeking positions in stu­menting his ideas," he said. dent government have also Many candidates have also focused their campaigns on decided to spice up their cam­what Hungeling and Orsagh be­paign posters, opting for silly lieve is the most important as­photos and language aimed at pect of being a Notre Dame stu­getting a chuckle from voters. dent-having a good time. O'Driscoll and Parry's cam­
Brian McCarthy, a south quad paign posters shows a photo of senator candidate, has cam­the two posing bare-chested paign posters that carry the with the words "Off Campus simple slogan: "Let's Have Co-Presidents" scribbled across Some Fun Together." Off-Cam­their biceps. pus Co-presidential Candidates Clay and Harron have a photo Tim O'Driscoll and Pat Parry of the crowd at a Notre Dame 
list "We know how to party" as football game with identifying the only three facets of their arrows pointing to tiny dots 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
Gone, but not forgotten 
platform. which are supposedly the two 
The Names Quilt Project began its temporary residence in Stepan Center last week. The quilt project has 
Parry admitted their partying candidates. Harron and Clay 
been touring the country to help remind the public about the ravages of AIDS by remembering its victims, 
slogan was more of an atten­also use movie quotes to intro­
like Kokomo Indiana's Ryan White. White contracted AIDS from a blood transfusion. His subsequent ordeal 
tion grabber than what they duce themselves and their 
attracted national attention and support from stars Micheal Jackson and Elton John. 
really want to get accomplished ideas. if elected, but he said having Off-Campus Co-President fun will defmitely be a big part candidates Nikole Neidlinger


Morrissey men brave cold for fundraiser 
of their agenda. and Matt Reb's posters have a "We want to have a good time photo of the two posed on a 
By ROSANNA in the run, was asked to donate dent Father Edward Malloy and and change the spirit of this balcony of the Commons, a D'ALESSANDRO three dollars to the cause. Ad­six cheerleaders. This is the place," he said. "Notre Dame local bar popular with students. 


ditional fifty dollar contribu­third year Malloy has fired the
News Writer has been ruled by the status 
tions were expected to be col­gun to signal the official start of 
quo for too long." 
lected from all Hall presidents. the run. He did not however, 
Chad Clay and Brian Harron, 
run.

A group of roughly eighty also candidates for off-campus
After last weekend's surpris­"You don't have to be totally
Notre Dame students from co-presidents, have a block 
Morrissey Hall ran around ingly warm temperatures, this insane to run in freezing cold party for off-campus students campus on Saturday afternoon weekend's return to below weather, but it sure helps," said listed as one of their campaign to raise money for the Megan freezing was ideal for making Tim Glenister, a sophomore promises.
Beeler/Colleen Hipp Scholar­the 1994 Morrisey Manor Polar who participated in Saturday's 
"Our platform has fun in it ship fund, as part of the third run an overall success, accord­event along with his dorm and that's obviously what the official Morrisey Manor Polar ing to Bill Merrit, Notre Dame friends. 
students want," Clay said. "We senior and Morrisey Commu­
run. need to keep pushing for things 
The annual event was created nity Service Commissioner,. The course for the Polar run fun. That's why we put the two years ago by the dorm's "I had initially wanted to circles the campus, beginning 
block party on our platform."
president to honor the two have it last weekend, but I'm and ending in front of Morris­The election of Hungeling and freshman swimmers who died glad we didn't because you sey Hall. As signs of their Orsagh influenced Harron and in the Jan. 24, 1992 bus acci­can't really have a good polar dorm's community spirit, many Clay to try their hands at Notre dent. run in 64 degree weather," he of the young men had the six Dame politics, Harron said. 
As decided on at a Hall Presi­said. Notre Dame cheerleaders in Neither one of them have anydent's Council (HPC) meeting, Also present with the group attendance paint big M's in prior experience in student each Morrisey Manor resident, of students in front of the dorm black and gold on their bare 
government. whether or not he participated at noon was University Presi-chests. 
Elections will be held today in the dorms between 11 :00 a.m. and 1 :00 p.m. and again between 5:00 and 7:00 p.m. Off-campus students may vote •. at the Information Desk at the · · same times. If necessary, runoff elections will be held on Wednesday, March 2. 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 28, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Consider the consequences before you scab 
As spring break rapidly------­approaches and students realize that their pocket books aren't as full as they had hoped, some are using the South Bend teachers' strike to their advantage. 
Forty-two dollars for a day of subbing means a new J. Crew swimsuit for some spring breakers ­what they might not real­ize is that it could mean the loss of a job for a South Bend teacher. 
Before making such a decision and crossing the picket line, students should examine all facets of the issue. There is more than just money at stake. 
Teachers of the South Bend school system are making specific demands by striking. The strikers are breaking the law and facing possible rmes and' jail sentences. 
They have been negotiating for a contract that includes a three percent salary increase starting the beginning of the school year. 
The school board faile9 to complete contract negotiations last Wednesday, which prompted the National Education Association-South Bend to go on strike 6 a.m. Thursday morning. 
Teachers in the South Bend School System are the lowest paid in the area. They are mere­ly asking for parity-a three percent increase is not an unreasonable request. 
Student choosing to cross the picket line are undermining the teachers efforts and blatantly demeaning everything that the teachers are asking for. 
Frontlash, a national student group working to bring students and labor together, an­nounced its support for the striking South Bend teachers yesterday. 
The Catholic character of both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame adds significantly to students' decision making process. 
"In expressing concern that students at some of the best-known Catholic universities would be asked to replace striking teachers, the stu­dent group cited the Catholic Church's long­standing support for the labor movement in this country. Beginning with Pope Leo XIII's encyclical Rerum Novarum in 1891, and con­tinuing through Pope John Paul II's recent encyclical Centesimus Annus, the Church has supported the ideals of a just wage, decent working conditions, and the trade union move­ment," stated yesterday's Frontlash press release. 
Although originally intended to protect its students, the Saint Mary's Education Department's policy also reinforces the Church's ideals regarding labor movements. 
Student teachers are personally involved because they are in tune with many of the teachers needs-of both those that stayed in and went out. It is unfair for non-education majors to sub without understanding the issue. 
So when contemplating an extra 42 bucks thls week, make sure to keep in mind that more than money is at stake. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and are not necessarily those ofThe Obsever. 
Elizabeth Regan Saint Mary's News Editor 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Production  
Michael O'Hara  Nora Buckley  
Dave Tyler  Cheryl Moser  
Sports  Kathie Young  
Bryan Connolly  Accent  
Viewpoint  Matt Carbone  
Jason Thomas  Mary Good  
Lab Tech  Tanya Krywaruczenko  
Dave Hungeling  Graphics  

Church bomb explosion kills nine Catholics, Israel blamed 
JOUNIEH, Lebanon 

A bomb exploded in a packed Maronite Catholic church Sunday, killing nine worshippers and wounding at least 60 as they lined up in front of the altar to take Communion, police and witnesses said. 
The carnage at Notre Dame De La Delivrance could have been far worse -a larger bomb was found inside the church's organ and defused. 
The bombing, hard on the heels of the massacre of Muslims at a mosque in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, underlined scope of the region's religious animosi­ties and the threat they pose to the Middle East peace process. 
Police said the bomb was made up of two mortar shells connected to a deto­nator and placed under a table sup­porting an icon of the Virgin Mary. 
The blast sent the congregation of._____....~ about 250 people storming hysterically out of the church, passed pools of blood and piles of glass shards and broken pews. 
The dead included a 4-year-old girl. 
Pieces of human flesh, torn clothes and shoes were still scattered across the blood-soaked carpeting several hours later. 
The blast blew off the lid of the church organ, reveal­ing an even larger ordnance hidden inside the instru­ment. Police experts defused the second bomb, made of four mortar shells connected to a single detonator. 
President Clinton drew a connection between the Lebanon bombing and the attack by a Jewish settler that killed 39 Muslims in Hebron on Friday and started a 
Chelsea celebrates her 14th birthday 
WASHINGTON 
Chelsea Clinton turned 14 years old 
Sunday. And that's about all the White House will say about her birthday. "We don't talk about Chelsea," said Neel Lattimore, spokesman for first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton. Even privately. aides were reluctant to talk about the nation's first daughter. The Clintons, determined to raise their daughter as normally as possible, have made it clear 

,that talk about Chelsea is off limits. Officials did say, though, that several of her teen-aged friends spent Saturday night at the White House. The teens ate a birth­day breakfast with the president, who went to church early Sunday and spent the day in the residence so he could be around Chelsea. She is a ninth grader at Sidwell Friends, a private school in Washington. 
Capsized boat leaves two dead, four hurt 
NEW LONDON, Conn. 
An 80-foot commercial fishlng boat capsized Sunday in the Thames River, killing two fishermen trapped below decks and injuring four others, authorities said. The "Lady Lynn" capsized as it was heading to a fishing dock, Coast Guard spokesman Lt. Michael Husak said. The cause was not immediately known. A seaman conducting rounds at Coast Guard Station New London heard shouts from the four survivors, who managed to crawl onto the upturned hull. Some 60 divers and rescue personnel from the Coast Guard, Naval Submarine Base, state and local police and fire departments worked in the early-morning cold to rescue the two inside the hull. The water temperature was 31 degrees, whlle the wind gusted to 28 mph, Husak said. The effort also was hampered by a tan­gle of lines and gear around and inside the capsized boat, 
he said. 
INDIANA Weather 
Monday, Feb. 28 

NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 28. 40s 30s Lines separate high temperature zones for !he day. 
FRONTS: 
-rT' ...a....a.... ............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 

over 70 percent of Lebanese territory, is the undisputed master of this country of four million people. 
Although the largely right-wing Maronites resent the military presence, one of their most outspoken bishops, Bishara Rai, told reporters that "the same criminal hands that carried out the Palestine massacre executed the Notre Dame bombing." 
The bombing came amid preparations for a visit to Lebanon in late May by Pope John Paul II. 
At the Vatican, the Pope said he was "profoundly hurt by this crime." He said the explosion "offends the Lebanese and their noble traditions," without referring to any changes in his plan to visit Lebanon. 
Stamp contest targets youth, environment 
WASHINGTON America's youngsters are being invited to design a set of four postage stamps focusing on the environment. The 
U.S. Postal Service and McDonald's Corp. are sponsoring the stamp design contest, and the post office says it will use the designs on stamps to be issued in 1995. "This contest gives young people a chance to express their con­cern for the environment in a very visible way," said Bob Langert of McDonald's. The four winning designs will be printed on nearly 200 million first-class stamps next year, according to William J. Henderson of the Postal Service. The contest opens March 4 and entries must be received by April 30. Postal officials said it is open to youngsters age 8 to 13 as of April 30. Stamp designs must focus on ways to protect, preserve or restore the environment. The four winners will each receive $3,000 in savings bonds and a trip for three to Washington to attend a stamp ceremony. 
Voters divided over future of Moldova 
KISHINEV, Moldova 

Moldovans voted Sunday in their first multi-party elec­tion since independence, but few people expected the outcome to heal divisions over the nation's future or its ethnic rifts. Officials said about 68 percent of the 3 mil­lion eligible voters cast ballots, far more than the one­third turnout required by the constitution for a valid elec­tion. Preliminary results were not expected until Monday. Ethnic Russians and Ukrainians in the breakaway Trans­Dniester region of eastern Moldova boycotted the vote. Although they make up only one-fifth of Moldova's 4.3 million people, their industrialized region supplies the predominantly agricultural nation with most of its elec­tricity. Trans-Dniester remains tense after a 1992 war fueled by fears of Russians and Ukrainians that the ma­jority ethnic Romanians would seek unification with Ro­mania. 
bloody rampage between Arabs and Jews in Israel and the occupied territo­ries. 
"The extremists have a common pur­pose: to promote division, strife and war. They must and will not be allowed to succeed," said Clinton. 
Hariri inspected the damage and said the explosion was "a plot ordered from abroad." 
Hariri, a Sunni Muslim, supports the deployment in Lebanon of 40,000 Syrian troops, which is condemned by Maronites, the country's largest Christian sect. 
Syria also blamed Israel. 
"Undoubtedly, it is Israel that stand's behind today's explosion in Jounieh with a view to covering up the Hebron massacre and stirring sedition and riots in Lebanon," a commentary on state-run Damascus radio said. 
Syria, with its peacekeepers deployed 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated PIBB8 
H  L  Dallas  50  35  New York  27  12  
Allanra  55  28  Denver  62  31  _Philadelphia  29  14  
Baltimore  30  14  Los Angeles  67  56  Phoenix  76  50  
Boston  26  9  Miami  80  65  S!. Louis  34  17  
Chicago  27  -5  Minneapolis  20  2  San Francisco  62  Sl  
Columbus  28  5  New Orleans  59  41  Seattle  51  42  

Brendan Regan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the 1\ssociated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Monday, February 28, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Natural law allows gay legislation 
By TONY POTTINGER Morality, and Sexual· Ori­
News Writer entation." The Australian-born jurist is considered one of the world's leading legal minds in 
Legislation prohibiting homo­legal philosophy. He wrote the sexual activity is consistent acclaimed 1980 book Natural with the basic goals of govern­Law and Natural Rights. ment and is rooted in the prin­ciples of natural law, according Finnis's lecture included a 
to John Finnis, Professor of lengthy discussion of the. histor­Law and Philosophy at ical controversy surroundingEngland's Oxford University. the sexual orientation of such ancient Greek philosophers as Finnis spoke Friday afternoon Socrates, Plato and Aristotle. at the Law School on "Law, Finnis contends that recently 
CLUB COLUMN 
February 28th, 1994 

Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column · must do so by 4 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office·in room 206 LaFortune. 
IMPORTANT--The Club Coordination Concil would like to imform all clubs that the 1994-1995 registration packet is ready for pick up. The packet is due MARCH 2 AT 4:00 P.M. THERE ARE NO EXCEPTIONS! Club presidents should check their mailboxes on the second floor ofLaFortune across from the Student Government Office. 
I. CUBAN AMERICAN UNION OF STUDENT ADVOCATES (CAUSA) will be holding a meeting on Monday, February 28th at 7:00 
p.m. in LaFortune -Sorin Room. The agenda will include a brief dis­cussion ofupcomng events and current projects, as well as elections for the office of president and vice-president. The balance ofthe time will be dedicated to the screening of two short documentary films, "Havana -Miami" and "Fidel". 
2. The JUGGLER ARTS AND LITERARY MAGAZINE needs all literature and slides of art work turned in by Friday, March 4th to the English office in 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Note: Ifslides ofyour artwork are not available please bring the orig­inal to room 200 Riley Hall February 28th or March 2th between 7p.m. and 9p.m. for photographing purposes. 
3. AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL will meet on Tuesday, March lth in the Coffeehouse at the Center for Social Concerns at 8p.m. in obser­vance of International Abolition of the Death Penalty Day. 
published works indicate that, contrary to popular opinion, these men in fact condemmed homosexual activity as "con­trary to the common good of society." 
Many gay activists, he says, misinterpret anti-discrimina­tion laws protecting homosex­uals as a legalization of homo­sexual activity and same-sex marriages and adoption of chil­dren. 
The crux of Finnis's argu­ments were based on what he termed "natural law" and the premise that the ultimate goal of sexual activity is the procre­ation of children, a statement that was challenged by audi­ence members during a ques­tion session. Throughout the session Finnis found himself on the defensive when one indi­vidual questioned the validity of natural law for its historical mandates of slavery, kingships, and the suppression of religious liberties. Finnis responded that "singular flaws of natural law do not by logic necessitate an abandonment of it altogether." 
"No state policy should ever be fueled by hatred, but by the needs of the common good," said Finnis when a student sug­gested that natural law has been used to legitimize hatred of homosexuals and anti-gay violence. 
Homosexual relationships "are an abdication of respon­sibility for the future of hu­mankind and lack the intrinsic intelligibility of lived experi­ence," Finnis said. This state­ment prompted one audience member to cite the devotion of homosexuals to partners in­fected with the AIDS virus. "Such cases are quite touching and show saintly conduct, but the common good still suffers as a result," said Finnis. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Notre Dame Law Review. 

Peace Conference pleases with speakers, discussions 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT News Writer 
Undergraduate and graduate students engaged in productive discussion over some of the world's most hotly debated is­sues this weekend. For the sec­ond year. "Building Peace: A Conference for Students by Students" brought together aspiring scholars from many disciplines to present their re­search on global peace issues. 
Geri Portnoy, one of the grad­uate student coordinators, said that student turnout was "excellent" and that the stu­dents "got a lot out of it and learned a lot." Because faculty in attendance were primarily observers, dialogue between students was extensive and en­gaging. "I was really im­pressed," said Portnoy. "It was great to see it all happen. I thought that is was more pro­ductive than I could have ever imagined." 
The keynote address, given by Robert Johansen, professor of government, considered the role of the United States in in­ternational peace-keeping. His speech was followed by much interactive dialogue among the panel members. 
The conference panels met for three hours in the morning, and continued after lunch for another three hour session in the afternoon. According to Jacquelyn Smith, graduate stu­dent in the government de­partment and conference or­ganizer, the presentations were "very good. I was impressed with the interaction between graduates and other gradu­ates." Smith noted that the conference provides such an opportunity which is all too often not available on campus. 
"Another benefit," said Smith, "is that the peace studies pro­gram brings in many in­ternational students." Citing 
TRAVEL EMERGENCY KIT 

Available at 


one of the panel discussions regarding the situation in Northern Ireland, Smith noted that the participants came from substantially informed, though much different backgrounds. While some Notre Dame stu­dents had spent time studying in both Ireland and Great Britain while others were origi­nally from that area, viewing the issue through native eyes. 
Smith said that one of the most outstanding aspects of the conference was the level to which discussion centered around U.S. officials' lack of understanding about many of the world's most pressing is­sues. Also, the contrast of per­spectives between ROTC advo­cates and representatives from the Hesburgh Program in Peace Studies. 
The event drew 125 students and several Notre Dame fac­ulty, a turnout well in excess of last years attendance. Students from Earlham College and Manchester College, who were scheduled to attend, were un­able to make the conference because of inclement weather. 
Although the conference was a success by virtually any per­spective, evaluation of the con­ference by its organizers brought to light a couple of considerations. The Hesburgh Center has a limited capacity and was filled to capacity this weekend. If the conference expands to include more stu­dents or even more participants from other universities, a new location will have to be found. 
In addition, the graduate-un­dergraduate discussions, al­though valuable and welcomed, is limited by the experience and research time of the under­graduate panel members. A meeting of the conference or­ganizers will be held in another couple of weeks to discuss im­provements and collect ideas for next year's gathering. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer 631-7471 
Ace Ventura: Pet Detective (PG·13):
12:30, 2:45, 5:15, 7:45J 10:00 Blank Check (PG,: 12: •5. 2:30. 5:00, 7:00,9:15 
~:'.l';'G~ogld Men (PG-13): 1:15,4:15, 
ltv Falller tile Hero (PG): 12:45, 3:00,
5:00, 7:30, 10:00 f:~~el:~~ Ground (R): 2:00, 4:30, 
Reality Blles(PG-13): 2:15, 4:45, 7:00, 9:30 
Blue Chlps(PG·13):Daily:4:30, 7:00, 9:30 M11. Doublflre(PG·13):Daily:4:15, 7:15 '10:00 My Glriii(PG):Daily:5:00, 7:30, 9:45 . 


--~-~-~------.....---------­
______.....____ 
-----~~ -~-~---~~­

page4 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 28, 1994 
U.S. and Vietnam begin political and financial talks 
unlikely the negotiators could complete their business in two 
SAVE
days and that additional talks would have to be scheduled later on. 
Phong said he hoped the liai­son offices would be opened as soon as possible. 
5~~
"All we are doing here is try­ing to pave the way to a better 
Our Famous Preferred Hand Wash 
future in the relations between 
With Our # 1 Oil Change 
the two countries," he added. 
(Offer good with coupon only • Expires 3-5-94)
The talks follow the lifting of a 19-year U.S. economic 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"On The Can1pus" phone 631-6316 swre hours Mon-Sat: 9a.ro.-Sp.m. 
Our Mix Of Music Is Bigger & Better Than Ever Before! 
SPYRO GYRA Dreams Beyond Control 
By GEORGE ESPER Associated Press 
HANOI, Vietnam 

U.S. and Vietnamese ne­gotiators began financial and political talks here Monday that could help lead to diplomatic relations between the two countries after nearly 20 years. 
Thirteen American and 18 Vietnamese negotiators met across a long rectangular table in Hanoi's Government Guest · House. 
They are the first major polit­ical negotiations since the Paris Peace Agreement of 1973 that ended U.S. military involvement in Vietnam. 
The negotiations were initial­ly aimed at resolving U.S. fman­cial claims against Vietnam dat­ing back to the end of the war in 1975. 
But they were broadened to include the timing of the open­ing of liaison offices by Vietnam in Washington and by the United States in Hanoi, and the 
functions of each. 
Nguyen Xuan Phong, acting director of the Americas Department and head of the Vietnamese delegation, said the talks would last two days. 
Other observers said it is 
embargo against Vietnam by President Clinton on Feb. 3. Clinton said the lifting of the embargo did not constitute a normalization of relations. 
But both U.S. and Vietnamese officials said the two sides appeared to be moving in that direction. The liaison offices are seen as a transitional step. 
The U.S. team is headed by James Hall, the director of the State Department's Office of Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia Affairs, and Ronald Bettauer, director of international claims and investment disputes. 
American claims against Vietnam total $230 million. These are mostly U.S. business investments in South Vietnam that were seized by the commu­nist North when it defeated the U.S.-backed Saigon regime in 1975. 
Occidental Petroleum Corp. is believed to be one of the largest claimants. 

The agenda also includes the status of U.S. government buildings seized after the war, including 34 in Saigon ­renamed Ho Chi Minh City by the Communists -and two in Hanoi. 
The negotiators also planned to discuss Vietnamese assets currently valued at $290 mil­lion that remain frozen in the United States. 
Alongside the talks, more than 100 U.S. specialists plus their Vietnamese counterparts are searching across the coun­try for the remains of Americans missing in action from the war. The latest search operation, ranging from the Chinese border to the South China Sea, began Saturday and will continue until March 22. 
It is the first such operation since the U.S. trade embargo was lifted and the biggest since the end of the war, covering half of Vietnam's 50 provinces. 


A~k Ahnut the Quaker ~tate 2'50,000 ~v1 ile/ 10 Year Ciu,lr<mtee 

AVE 
500 
Off 


e! 
LANZ 
AND';' 
PAULSPEER
. --~­



Monday, February 28, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS 

Number ofpriests on the decline 
By ANALISE TAYLOR News Writer 
The Catholic Church is facing several critical issues which concern its very existence, said Richard Schoenherr, professor of sociology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 
While the lay population increased 60-65 percent, the priest population decreased 40­45 percent, said Schoenherr, who based remarks upon his research into the priest decline. 
"Priestly services, as we have known them, are being cut in half," he said. 
Fifteen to 25 percent of American priests live in the South and West compared to 50-55 percent in the Northeast. Figures are worse in the South and West due to immigration and population shift, he said. 
"Foreign priests are increas­ing the population but not near­ly enough," he said. 

2 Medium Pizzas 
Unlimited Toppings 
$1200 

BEST PIZZA DEAL IN TOWN! 
CALL NOW!! 

Not to be combined with any other offer. Offer Good Monday-Thursday 
Carry Out/ Delivery 273-3890 
Schoenherr cited poor re­cruitment and retention as rea­sons for the decline in priests. 
"Compulsory celibacy and the lack of lower levels of encour­agement given to young. men thinking of joining the priest­hood are the intermediate causes for the lack of priests," he said. "Celibacy is the major problem." 
Although a mass exodus oc­curred in the late 60s and early 70s, death and retirement rates are contributing to another exodus in the church, he said. 
Catholic bishops around the country supported his research. "Without the bishops' support we couldn't have done the study," he said. 
Social change is 'the answer to the ideological question of why there is a depletion of priests, Schoenherr said. "Religion, like society, is in a state of flux. 
There is no evidence that young people are less spiritual than those before, he said. 
"The Catholic Church contin­ues to play a key fundamental role in the western world," he said. "However, the priesthood is in jeopardy and transition." 
Listen, my children 
Off campus senior Rachel Booker reads a health book to several atten­tive listeners during The Storybook Festival yesterday at Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's sponsored the event in collaboration with the Early Childhood Development Center and WNIT-TV. 

A WEEKEND OF COMMUNITY 
An Experience for Seniors Who have been involved in Service or Social Action 
Friday Evening, March 25 
to 
Sunday Noonl March 27 
(With optional outing to Gin Blossom Concert) 
Registration forms available from: Campus Ministry, Hesburgh Library And Center for Social Concerns 
Application and $10 fee due by March 17 
For further information contact: 
Robert Benedetto 273-5839 Tina Patane 282-2879 Ed Miehle 634-3332 Tom McDermott C.S.C. 631-7800 Kathy Royer 
• • ' '1:.-631-7862 
• ...... •....... ":. 
Yemen tries to maintain union, calm 
By ABBAS GHALIB Associated Press 
SAN'A, Yemen 

Feuding Yemeni leaders signed a new cease-fire accord Sunday providing for the inte­gration of northern and south­ern troops in a bid to save the country's almost four-year-old union and end the threat of civil war. 
Previous agreements have failed to stop the conflict be­tween the Red Sea nation's northern and southern regions, but there were no reports of fighting after the truce took effect at mid-afternoon. The latest round of fighting erupted last Monday, a day after the signing of a reconciliation agreement. 
Col. Ali Salah, a northern army officer leading a joint mil­itary commission, said the new accord was signed by President Ali Abdullah Saleh and Vice President Ali Salem al-Beidh. 

Indian Ridge Plaza Next to Venture Grape Rd.. Mishawaka 277·7946 expires 2·28-94 
1metriCagoHarcuttmgCo. 


page6 
The Observer • MIDDLE EAST NEWS Monday, February 28, 1994 
Israel to free Palestinians, to disarm Jewish extremists 
By ED BLANCHE Clinton to resume peace talks Associated Press in Washington on Wednesday. The Israelis have said they will 
JERUSALEM go. 

Israel's Cabinet ordered some The Palestinians are de­Jewish extremists disarmed manding the removal of the and up to 1,000 Pale-stinian 120,000 Jewish settlers in the prisoners freed in an effort -West Bank and Gaza Strip. Sunday to smother Arab fury Rabin said, however, he over the Hebron mosque mas­would hold the PLO to its sacre. agreement not to negotiate the 
The violence did not abate. At' · future of the settlements until least three Palestinians died as 1996. "The settlements are 
PLO responds to Israel response 
By SALAH NASRAWI 
Associated Press 
TUNIS, Tunisia 
Seeking to build on the world­wide outcry over the Hebron mosque massacre, Vasser Arafat said Sunday that Israel's pledge to crack down on Jewish extremists was not enough and demanded international pro­tection for the Palestinians. 
The Palestine Liberation Organization chairman left the door open for resuming peace Washington on Sunday, U.S. and Israeli officials said. 

Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin rejected the PLO's condi­tion, noting Arafat agreed last year to put off negotiations on the future of the settlements until1996. 
"The settlements are going to remain," Rabin said at a con­ference of journalists in Jerusalem. "(The Palestinians) agreed to that and we will stick to this agreement." 
Friday's blood-bath plunged superficial." 
"These are empty decisions which have no relation with the seriousness of the crime or with the basis of resolving it," Arafat said. 
He renewed his rejection of Israeli claims that a lone. men­tally unstable extremist was responsible for the massacre. He said a "gang of settlers" carried out the shooting and army soldiers later opened fire on the worshipers. 
The Israeli Cabinet decisions. 

clashes between Arabs and 
Israeli troops spread across the 
occupied lands and the Jewish 
state itself, leaving the Middle 
East peace process still in jeop­
ardy. 
PLO chairman Vasser Arafat 
dismissed the Israeli govern­
ment crackdown on Jewish 
extremists opposed to peace 
talks as "hollow and superfi­
cial." 
"These are empty decisions 
which have no relation with the 
seriousness of the crime or 
with the basis of resolving it," 
Arafat told The Associated 
Press at his headquarters in 
Tunis, Tunisia.He charged 
Israeli troops were involved in 
the bloodbath at the mosque 
Friday, a claim Israel has 
denied. The government says a 
lone Jewish settler attacked the 
victims with an assault rifle 
while they prayed. 
The Arab League voted Sunday night to ask the U.N. Security Council to investigate the massacre. Its 22 members urged the United States and Russia to provide protection for Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank. 
Arabs also played down the Cabinet's order for the release of Palestinian prisoners this week. Many of the inmates affected have served the bulk of their sentences and had been expected to be released next month as part of Israeli-PLO efforts to begin limited self-rule for Palestinians. 
Despite criticisms of Israel's moves, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said he hoped talks with the Palestine Liberation Organization would resume. 
"We expect that regardless of the tragic event that took place in Hebron on Friday, the Palestinians, the PLO, will ... realize that the only way to solve the problem is to acceler­ate the process, to fU1d a solu­tion," Rabin said at a Jewish media conference. 
In Tunis, Arafat assembled the PLO leadership Sunday to decide whether to respond to an invitation by President 
r Take, a Coffee 
~eak~ 
Costa Rica  $165  
Guatemala  $155  
Columbia  $330  
Kenya  $709  
Java  $650  

F<res ilfe each WliY bosed on o roundtrip purchase from Chicago. Taxes not included ond restrictions apply. Gsll for other worldwide destinotions. 
Council Travel 
1153 N_ Dearborn St, 2nd ftoor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels magazine 
talks with Israel, despite pres­Israel and the occupied West which also included a pledge togoing to remain," Rabin said. 
sures to quit in protest over the Bank and Gaza Strip into chaos. release hundreds of Palestinian "We will stick to this agree­
ment." slaying of 39 worshipers on By Sunday, the death toll from prisoners. were designed to Friday. the massacre and subsequent absolve the government of any 
But he and top aides said that rioting had climbed to 65 with responsibility, Arafat said. 
The army sealed off the occu­
if the talks resumed, the focus about 360 wounded. 
pied zones, with a population of "Why didn't the Cabinet say one million Palestinians, for an would shift to the need for The Israeli Cabinet on Sunday anything about the involvement 
removing 144 Jewish settle­ordered the arrest of Jewish
indefUlite period. Thousands of of some elements of the Israeli 
ments before the implementa­extremist leaders and pledged army in the killing?" saidArabs defied curfews to stone 
tion of the Sept. 13 Palestinian to disarm hard-core settlers in Arafat.
soldiers in rain-swept streets 
self-rule accord. a crackdown designed to Jur~ "These elements not only Jet
and throw up barricades of burning tires. Others sneaked Negotiators from Syria, the Palestinians back to the the criminals flee the scene but Jordan and Lebanon, acting in negotiating table. they opened fire on our people
through alleyways decked in 
solidarity with the PLO, with­But Arafat, in an interview
black flags, dodging patrols to who were trying to take the ­visit the grieving families of the drew their negotiators from with The Associated Press, said injured to the hospitals or came 
separate talks with Israel in the measures were "hollow and to see their dead." 
victims. 


more schools thanyou'A!ere. 

It~ev~ 
you want to be: 
C Villa U.S.A.. Ind. 1994 
. '' 

CAMPUSES 
Monday, February 28, 1994 page 7 
College health centers meet student needs 
Northwestern provides free health care, education 
By KATHY HAUSMANN mately 12,000 full-time stu­
News Writer dents. For this many students, the service has 15 full-time physicians, five nurse practi­
Northwestern University's tioners, a pharmacist, four
Student Health Service has "an 
laboratory technicians, five
excellent staff who have dedi­psychologists, a psychothera­cated themselves to taking care. 
pist, two social workers, andof the profilems of college stu­numerous part-time and work­dents," according to Dr. Mark study staff members. There isGardner, the service's director. 
a nurse on duty on campus
Open from 8:30 to 5:30 Mon­every day of the year except
day through Friday for ap­
Christmas Day, and there is apointments and walk-ins, and doctor on call every day of the Saturday from 9:00 to 12:00 for year.
those requiring urgent care, The most common problemsthe help the facility provides is that the service has faced thisfree to all full time students. 
year are the number of viral Included in the free care are and respiratory illnesses andappointments, x-rays, shots, their complications, with minor and most lab tests. For some injuries coming in a close sec­of the more expensive lab tests, 
ond, according to Gardner.
the service charges the student the amount of money it costs to 
In addition to the care usual­run the test, usually saving the ly associated with a heath ser­students a third to one half of vice, Northwestern also has athe cost of a hospital test. 
health education program,Along with the Student 
teaching both students and theHealth Service's general med­community, through outreach
ical clinic, the service also has By MARCY DINIUS of cables and some changes in ment and procedures with no 
programs about personal
a women's health clinic, which Campuses Editor wiring in the aging health cen­cost forthe use of the health 
health and drug and alcohol
is available by appointment ter building. As a result, the center staff. 
abuse. There are three full­
only, a counseling/psychology "To bring the University ceilings are being lowered to Overnight care is available 
time health educators, with one
clinic, available by both Health Services up to date with accomodate the changes and with 25 beds serving inpatient 
focused on personal health,
appointment and walk-ins, an the rest of the university," a improve the asthetics of the students. Charges are made for 
while the other two are in
orthopedic surgery consultant, building. off-campus students requiring an immunization clinic, a phar­charge of alcohol and drug pro­NOTRE DAME Services continue to be overnight care. 
grams. One-hundred fifty stu­
macy, a laboratory, a radiology new computer system is being offered while the renovations Three physicians and 20 reg­
dents volunteer with these pro­
clinic, and an in-patient infir­installed at the health center, are being made, with hours istered nurses are employed by 
grams, and there are seven
mary. according to Head Nurse Rita from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Monday the university. 
student groups coordinated
The service is open only dur­Rossigno. through Friday. For specialized care, a referal 
through the health education
ing the fall, winter, and spring The framework for the new Students are charged only for can be made to local specialists 
service.

semesters, serving approxi-system involves the installation medication, equipment, treat-in the area. 
Colleges take similar approaches to caring for students 
By W. HUDSON GILES a variety of methods. have a resident nurse as well as whether the student chooses to 21,000 students. The most com­Most of the centers hold regu­nursing assistants on duty dur­pay privately or through insur­mon problems health-care cen­
News Writer 
lar business hours from nine to ing operating hours. A doctor is ance. ters at the two schools en­five Monday through Friday, present usually three to four Most universities offer inpa­counter include sports-related
With a rising awareness of 
although some have hours on days a week and available by tient services for routine sick­injuries, mono, the flu, and
problems with the national 
Saturday. For services pro­appointment only. In the event nesses and health problems. occasionally food poisoning.
health care system, student 
vided, students can either pay that a specialist is required, one Outpatient services are usually
health centers at different col­
as they go or have expenses will be called upon or the stu­done in collaboration with the Overall, the structure ofleges and universities provide 
an example of organized and charged to their tuition pay­dent is sent off-campus, local hospital. None of the health-care systems at the dif­ments. All students, however, depending on policy at the uni­health facilities at any of the ferent universities is similar,
efficient treatment for a large 
are required to have some form· versity. universities perform in-housing with the number of problemsnumber of people at a relatively of health insurance. Often, student health centers treatment or "dorm calls". they encounter dependent onlow cost. 
offer a variety of services in­student enrollment. They share Student health-care centers at In the event of an emergency, cluding drug and disease test­The number of students the common goal of providing the University of Miami, 
for example at the University of ing as well as treatment for served at each institution quality care in an organizedColumbia University, the Uni­Washington, students are di­venereal diseases and preg­varies, with Columbia Univer­and simplified manner and atversity of Washington, Pepper­rected to the University Medical nancy counseling. sity's health center accommo­an efficient cost, operatingdine University and Brown Center and are financially re­Treatments and prescriptions dating only 3,422 undergradu­without the degree of red tapeUniversity each provide treat­sponsible for all services. are usually based on a "pay as ates while the University of that often plagues the nation'sment for their students through Most student health centers you go" system, depending on Washington serves almost current health care systems. 
BRIEFS . . 
Rutgers considers name Revolutionary War veteran. Yost claims that Meharg charged with involuntary rooms in mobile trailers and Political-science Professor Ross warned her to hide her lesbian­manslaughter. Chapel Hill po­prefabricated buildings as only
change 
Baker, in response to the pro­ism or lose her athletic scholar­lice have yet to determine who ··15 of the 53 buildings on cam­posal, suggested that "they ship and reduced the size of her fired the shot into the chest of pus are safe for use at the cam­
To emphasize the fact that 
should change the name of the grant after Yost's admission of Stewart from a hal).dgun that pus. With repairs to cost Rutgers University in New Jer­state instead." being gay. Yost is asking for had been purchased the day b~tween $250-million and sey is a state university, State $1.5 million in damages and before the accident. Students $350-million dollars, the 
Senate President Donald 
Coach sued for gay discrimi­Meharg has denied all of the had apparently removed the portable classrooms were nec­DiFrancesco plans to introduce charges. gun's magazine but were not essary to conduct classes for a bill to change the school's nation aware that one bullet was left the nearly 24,500 students that name to the University of New Appalachian State student in the gun's chamber. returned to classes for the Jersey. DiFrancesco has re­At the University of Maryland, 
spring semester. A crowd of ceived many calls and letters former field-hockey player dies Northridge holds classes in students at the school received 
from students and alumni Vicki L. Yost has sued the 
a phone call from presidentprotesting the proposed name school's field-hockey coach After Appalachian State Uni­trailers Clinton offering them his sup­
change. Margaret Meharg for harass­versity student Christopher port.
First named Queens College ment and forcing her to keep Stewart was killed at the off­With classes resuming last in 1766, the school changed its quiet about her homosexuality campus University of North week after the recent earth­
-Information from the Chron­

name to Rutgers in 1825 after a after Meharg saw Yost kissing a Carolina Chi Psi fraternity quake at Cal State Northridge, 
icle ofHigher Education 

former trustee and woman. house, one student has been students returned to class-

VIEWPOINT 
pageS Monday, February 28, 1994 

Perhaps contrary to the view of some, the most important event in the Catholic world this academic year was not Notre Dame's election of the Hungeling-Orsagh ticket. It was the release of Veritatis Splendor, the encyclical on Christian morality. An over­looked aspect of the encyclical is its exposition, in chapter three, of the legal and social consequences of the denial of objective moral truth. 
In his presentation of Veritatis to the press, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger described that chapter as among "the great texts of the Magisterium" and "a fundamental text for the questions which concern us all." As the school year enters its fmal phase, it may be useful to mention some aspects of that chapter which, I hope, will encourage students to read the entire encyclical. 
Have you ever wondered at the paradox that the twentieth century has produced more proclamations of human rights than any century, and yet has also produced the greatest vio­lations of those rights ever seen? Pope John Paul explains why. The denial of objective truth by today's jurisprudence reduces law to a function of raw, totalitarian power. 
"Totalitarianism arises out of a denial of truth in the objective sense. If there is no transcen­dent truth, in obedience to which man achieves his full identity, then there is no sure principle for guaranteeing just relations between people. Their self-interest as a class, group or nation would inevitably set them in opposition to one another. If one does not acknowledge transcendent 
DOONESBURY 
truth, then the force of power  op only  on  the basis of the  where he is going. Hence we  the person, and not represent a  
takes over, and each person  equality of all its members, who  not infrequently witness the  threat to his freedom and digni­ 
tends to make full use of the  possess common rights and  fearful plunging of the human  ty? ... The Crucified Christ  
means at his disposal in order  duties. When it is a matter of  person into situations of grad­ reveals the authentic meaning  
to impose his own interests or  the moral norms prohibiting  ual self-destruction.  of freedom: he lives it fully in  
his own opinion, with no regard  intrinsic evil. there are no privi­ According to some, it appears  the total gift of himself and  
for the rights of others... [T]he  leges or exceptions for anyone.  that  one  no  longer  need  calls his disciples to share in his  
root of modern totalitarianism  It makes no difference whether  acknowledge  the  enduring  freedom." (No. 85)  
is ... the denial of the transcen­ one is the master of the world  absoluteness  of any  moral  
dent dignity of the human per­ or the 'poorest of the poor' on  value.  All  around  us  we  As Cardinal Ratzinger sum­ 
son who, as the visible image of  the face of the earth. Before the  encounter contempt for human  marized the third chapter, John  
the invisible God, is therefore  demands of morality, we are all  life after conception and before  Paul "shows...that 'at the  
by his very nature the subject of  absolutely equal." (No. 96)  birth; the ongoing violation of  heart of the issue of culture we  
rights which no one may vio­ basic rights of the person; the  find the moral sense'; in the  
late-no individual,  group,  This  is  applied  common  unjust destruction of goods  face of social and economic  
class, nation or state. Not even  sense. If we do not affirm objec­ minimally  necessary  for  a  injustices and political corrup­ 
the majority of a social body  tive norms that always prohibit  human life." (No.84)  tion, he speaks of 'the acute  
may violate these rights, by  certain conduct, how can we  In Veritatis the Pope is not  sense of the need for a radical  
going against the minority, by  define any moral limits to what  merely expounding abstract  personal and social renewal,'  
isolating,  oppressing,  or  the state can do? The Pope sees  principles. Rather, the separa­ which  alone is  'capable of  
this point as relevant to the  ensuring justice, solidarity,  
nations that comprised the for­ honesty and openness' (no. 98).  
' If there is no transcen­dent truth ... there is no sure principle for guaran­ mer Soviet Union. He sees a "grave" danger in those nations of "an alliance between democ­racy and ethical relativism,  ' Indeed, 'if there is no ultimate truth to guide and direct political activi­ The text reveals the intellectual foundation of totalitarianism to consist in 'the denial of truth in the objective sense' (No. 99),  
teeing just relations between people.'  which would remove any sure moral reference point from political and social life, and on  ty, then ideas and convic­tions can easily be  and indicates the way to over­coming it."  
exploiting it, or by attempting to annihilate it." (No. 99)  a deeper level make the acknowledgement of truth­impossible.  manipulated for reasons of power."  Some describe this era as "post-Christian." Not so. Veritatis lends support to the  
Adherents of The Church of  "Indeed, 'if there is no ulti­ conclusion that this is really a  
Where It's At, on this campus  mate truth to guide and direct  "pre-Christian" era. The failure  
and elsewhere, criticize papal  political activity, then ideas and  tion of freedom from truth "is  of the Enlightenment, in its  
teachings as arbitrary and hos­ convictions  can  easily  be  the consequence...of another  effort to achieve freedom apart  
tile to freedom. On the con­ manipulated for  reasons  of  more serious and destructive  from the truth of Christ, is so  
trary,  as  John Paul put it,  power.  As  history  demon­ dichotomy.  that which sepa­ clear that the answer presented  
recognition of objective moral  strates, a democracy without  rates faith from morality." (No.  in Veritatis Splendor  is obvi­ 
norms is essential for freedom  values easily turns into open or  88)  ously the only alternative.  
and  "genuine democracy":  thinly disguised totalitarian­ The academic spin doctors  
"[T]here can be  no freedom  ism."' (No. 101)  John Paul affirms that "the  will advise you  on what this  
apart from or in opposition to  Ideas have social and legal  true and final  answer to the  encyclical means and how they  
the truth... [O]nly by obedience  consequences, even the ideas of  problem of morality lies in  could have written a better one.  
to universal moral norms does  professors and others who are  [Christ] alone .... [l]n the  This definitive and moving doc­ 
man find full confirmation of  absolutely sure that they cannot  Crucified Christ . ..the Church  ument, however, should not be  
his personal uniqueness and  be sure of anything. "Pilate's  finds the answer to the ques­ taken at second hand. Read it  
the possibility of authentic  question: 'What is truth?"', said  tion troubling so many people  for yourself.  
moral growth. For this very  John Paul, "reflects the dis­ today: how can obedience to  
reason ... [t]hese norms ... repre­ tressing perplexity of a man  universal  and  unchanging  Professor Rice is on the Law  
sent the foundation of genuine  who often no longer knows who  moral  norrris  respect  the  School faculty. His column ap­ 
democracy, which can .... devel­ he is. whence he comes and  uniqueness and individuality of  pears every other Monday.  
GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  


'' A cigarette is the perfect type .l""i.ofthe perfect pleasure. It is exquisite and leaves one unsatisfied." 
-Oscar Wilde, The Picture of Dorian Gray, 1891 
= 

ACCE,NT

Monday, February 28. 1994 page 9 
Post office keeps students in touch 
By TANYA KRYWARUCZENKO 
Assistant Accent Editor 
It's that time of day again. You're on your way back to the dorm after a hard day of classes. With papers and tests looming overhead,. your stress and anxiety level is building up. . 
Trying to get into a better m.ood, you walk to the mailroom, open your mailbox and find a letter from an old friend. Almost immediately, your day is brightened .. 
All over campus, six days of the week, students open up their mailboxes in hopes of finding love letters, let­ters from home, magazines and even junk mail. But, who has made it possible to receive this mail? The Notre Dame Post Office. 
"The Notre Dame Post Office was set up ten years after the university was founded, to originally take care of the needs of the Holy Cross-Notre Dame com­
' Most college post offices are a branch 
or a substation of a city's post office. We're an actual post office with the city name of Notre Dame.' 
Mike Walsh, Postmaster 

munity," according to Mike Walsh, postmaster of the Notre Dame Post Office. 
Today, the post office still mainly serves the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities, but some mem­bers of the South Bend community also use the facili-. ties. 
The Notre Dame Post Office is different from most post offices on college campuses, said Walsh. "Most college post offices are a branch or a substation of a city's post office," Walsh explained. 
"We're an actual post office with the city name of Notre Dame." Since the post office is located on campus and mainly 

serves Notre Dame, the building is small. The work­ings of the office, however, are not that much different than a larger town's, Walsh said. 
"Since we are a smaller office, we really get to know the clientele because they are the same for a while," said Walsh. "We joke around with them and try to be friendly with them." 
He explained that since most students are here for four years, the post office personnel get a chance to recognize and know them. 
"An exciting time for us is when new students come to campus because we get to know a variety of new people," Walsh said. 
Walsh explained that in his position as postmaster he mainly works with university professionals. "I wish I could get to know more of the students," he said. Walsh may not know as many students as he would like, but he is definitely familiar with their mail. 
On average; the Notre Dame Post Office receives approximately 150 feet of mail a day, which only -· includes letters and magazines, according to Walsh. 
Walsh said that the. post office also receives a large number of parcels each day. Many post offices receive only one load of packages, containing anywhere from 100-500 parcels daily. "We receive approximately 5-9 loads of packages each day," Walsh said. 
Nationally, the busiest time of year for the U.S. Post Office is Christmas Time. "Our [Notre Dame's) busiest time of year is around Valentine's Day," he said. 
"Students here have boyfriends and girlfriends from back home in addition to parents, grandparents and those close to them who send them things around Valentine's Day-it's a time to remember others." 
The Notre Dame Post Office takes in $3 million a year in revenue. "This is normally as much as a city the size of Mishawaka would take in over a year, excluding the summer months," said Walsh. 
During the summer, the Notre Dame Post Office's business is cut in half because of the decrease in stu­dents and faculty that remain on campus during the summer. 
The Notre Dame Post Office is open from 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m., Monday-Friday and from 9:30 a.m.-12:00 p.m. on Saturday. Don't forget to check your mail today. 
Superstition or serious threat to one's health? Chain letters at JV~/3MC 
By TANYA KRYWARUCZENKO 
Assisunt Accent Editor 
We all know them. We dread getting them in the mail, be­cause we're faced with the dilemma of whether or not to participate. Yes, it's the notori­ous chain letter. 
Students throughout the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities have received at least one of these at one time or another. 
Notre Dame sophomore Rachel Stehle has received at least ten chain letters through­out her life. 
One of the chain letters she received had a list of four peo­ple on it, Stehle said. 
"I was supposed to write to each of the names, delete the first name, add my name to the list and send it to another four people." 
Stehle explained that when she receives chain letters she usually continues the chain. 
"The last letter I received said that if I didn't send the letters out within four days, I would get bad luck," she said. 
"I didn't want to die or be cursed with bad luck, so I copied the letter and sent it to random people in the phone book." 
Sophomore Renee von Weiss received her first chain letter over a month ago. It said that it was started in 1985 and had to be sent out within 96 hours. If she participated, she was guar­anteed good luck. 

von Weiss decided not to par­ticipate in the chain. "I didn't want to go along with the su­perstition associated with it," von Weiss said. 
"I just thought it [the chain letter] was really funny and I laughed about it." 
For some, however, chain let­ters have come at ironic times in their lives. Saint Mary's sophomore Simone Barber has had a different twist of luck with chain letters. 
"I never participated in chain letters before-1 just threw them away," Barber said. "Whenever I talked to people about them they said, 'Don't send them to me, they're just a waste of time."' 
Just recently, though, Barber has received the same chain letter six times. She explained that the letter described the prayer of St. Jude and read, "With love, all things are possi­ble." 
If she continued the chain, it promised that money would be sent to her in the mail. If she broke the chain, bad luck would come upon her. 
"I threw it away the first few times," she said. 
Suddenly, Barber experi­enced bad luck. She explained that in the past few weeks she was hit with many thorny prob­lems in her life. 
"Between the fifth and sixth letters I received, the problems got even worse," she said. Finally, Barber decided to con­tinue the chain. 
Has it helped her? Since she continued the chain, Barber said that her situation has im­proved a little. Although she did 
' I didn't want to die or 
be cursed with bad luck, so I copied the letter and sent it to ran­dom people in the phone book.' 
Rachel Stehle 

not receive money in' the mail, she found $40 in her drawer. 
Chain letters in the mail aren't the only way of keeping them going. One of the newest trends in chain letters is E-mail chain letters. 
"I received one in late December," Kathy Quaile, Notre Dame sophomore, said. "It said to send messages to five people within 48 hours and if I did this, it would bring me good luck." 
"I didn't bother doing it-I think it's all superstition," Quaile said. "I think it's too time consuming and it's not worth the effort." 
Quaile has also received ap­proximately 20 chain letters in the mail, but she has never continued any of the chains. 
"The letters always give ex­amples of bad luck happening to a person who hasn't contin­ued the chain, like dying or los­ing the lottery," she explained. 
"But I haven't done any of the letters and I haven't had any bad luck because of not doing them." 
Sophomore Danielle Fresch has had positive experiences with a chain letter. 
The chain letter she received a couple of years ago told her to send postcards to different people, explained Fresch. 
"I sent postcards of Ohio, my home state, to each of the peo­ple listed, and I actually got one postcard in return from Spain." 
So, it's all up to you whether 

·­
you decide to join in on the fun of chain letters or write them off as superstition. Just re­member, it could always bring you more mail in return. 

page 10 
Bouts 
continued from page 16 
used his trademark weapons in beating Bradshaw. He kept on him early with jabs and straight punches and continued the pressure throughout the fight. 
In the third a pair of flurries prompted the referee to give Bradshaw two standing eight counts and Gerber continued to throw until the final bell. 
"There is a lot of relief now that I won it," said Gerber. "I put a lot of pressure on myself. It feels great to have accom­plished what I had been shoot­ing for." 


It was certainly Jeff Gerber's night but other fighters tried desperately to steal the spot­light and some almost suc­ceeded. 
Junior Rob Naticchia threw the biggest surprise at the crowd, knocking out defending 175-pound champion Kevin O'Rourke with only 1:22 gone in the first. 
Twice big right hooks sent O'Rourke to the canvas. A gash over O'Rourke's left eye forced the end of the bout and re­quired five stitches. 
Another surprise came in the 165-pound final where Jeff Goddard won a close split deci­sion over John Christoforetti. Going into the fight Goddard looked like a lock, but Christo­foretti, one of two freshmen in the fmals, came out strong and took the opening round by land­ing a series of straight rights. 
The second was close, but it appeared Goddard had the edge as he landed repeated combinations midway through. 
Goddard took control early in the third using his jab and the straight right, but Christoforetti came on at the end with both fighters landing as the bell sounded. 
"It was a tough fight," said Goddard. "He came out and surprised me. I knew it was go­ing to be a close decision." 
One fight that wasn't a close decision was the heavyweight battle between Matt Carr and 

Jay Wolfersberger catches Jason Anderson with a left hook in the 135-pound final. 
flNA.~ RESULTS . .w,.. 
135 pounds: Jay Wolfersberger split dec. Jason Anderson 140 pounds: Jeff Gerber unan. dec. John Bradshaw 145 pounds: Dan Courl split dec. Michael Ahern 150 pounds: Rob Ganz split dec. Chris Rosen 155 pounds: Steve Clar unan. dec. Eric Hillegas 
1.60 pounds: Kevin Mullaney split dec. Mike Thompson 165 pounds: Jeff Goddard split dec. John Christoforetti 170 pounds: Brian Welford unan. dec. Nick Harmon 175 pounds: Rob Natlcchia TKO Kevin O'Rourke, 1:22 of 1 180 pounds: Mike Mantey unan. dec. Mike Somerville Heavyweight: Matt Carr unan. dec. Chad Harrison 
Chad Harrison. Carr cruised to his third straight title despite spending five minutes during the second round to recover from a Harrison low-blow which winded the champ. 
Carr won with a big right and a surprisingly quick jab, but credit goes to Harrison for go­ing the distance and taking sev­eral big punches. 
In the fmal's only true upset, junior Dan Couri came out on the winning side of a split deci­sion over returning champion Michael Ahern in the 145­pound class. 
Ahern looked tentative throughout the fight and Couri boxed smart, never allowing Ahern to land the big punch. Couri won the first round on a series of flurries, and in the second took the advice of his corner and went more to the body for key points. 
In the third both boxers were tired. Neither mounted any sub­stantial attacks, leaving Couri's work in the first two rounds as the evidence for the win. 
Steve Clar (155), Kevin Mul­laney (160) and Brian Weiford 
(170) joined Gerber, Carr and Goddard as repeat champions. Mullaney was the only one of the three who did not win unanimously. Mike Thompson was the aggressor in the 160­pound final but Mullaney looked strong in the third and earned the decision. 
In the first fight of the night Jay Wolfersberger won a close call over Jason Anderson. When the final bell rang and the two fighters hugged Wolfersberger was sure he had lost the fight. "I'll bet you $20 that you win," he said to An­derson. 

The champion is down some cash after the judges awarded him the split decision. The fight could have gone either way, but Wolfersberger was more ag­gressive and threw more punches. 
Rob Ganz won the night's bloodiest bout over Chris Rosen in 150-pound action. Ganz took the fight to Rosen and won the first two rounds on aggression. 
The third began with Ganz, a former wrestler, tackling his opponent to the canvas. After order was restored Ganz began bombing with a slow-develop­ing right hook which Rosen somehow could not avoid. 
In the least thrilling fight of the night, Mike Mantey easily won the 180-pound title over Mike Somerville. Mantey took control in the first, landing a straight right which resulted in a standing eight-count for Somerville. 
Somerville got another in the second and then both fighters threw sparingly the rest of the way. 
A good turnout for the finals assures another successful year for the Notre Dame Mission in Bangladesh. Also, The Bouts saluted the fans in the South Bend and Notre Dame com­munities by awarding them the Bengal Bouts Award for their support during the past 64 years. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classifieds 

cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Need ride to/from Baltimore area  COLORADO  APT NEAR CAMPUS! Hickory  •••••••••***TROOP ND*******•••••••  Barb,  
NOTICES  for 2-spring break. Will help w/gas, tolls.Call 634-284glf!  me need ride to Boulder or Denver or near there for break. you call.  Village 1 80/mo uti! pd, roommates Summer + g4.g5 yr  TALENT SHOW TALENT SHOW TRY-OUTS for the  Congrats on a great season! !II Love,  
me can drive. pay gas.  MUST SEE! 273-836g  Campus Wide Talent Show are  Me  
USED TEXTBOOKS  WANTED:  call KICKHAM @ 273-4007  Monday, Feb 28  3:00-10:00 pm  
Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard • 233-2342/10-6 M-Sat g.3 Sun WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  HELP WANTED Loading trucks, weekdays 4-7PM, 2-5 days a week depending on your schedule.  FOR RENT  I  FOR SALEI 2 tix to PEARL JAM  at Washington Hall REGISTRATION: 12:30-3:00 pm All Are Welcome!!! Ques/Conflicts: Ron 273-5g71  I am driving to Nashville for Spring Break and have room for a passen­ger. Share $. 634-4524  
ILOST & FOUND I Requires some heavy lifting. Get your exercise & earn a paycheck at the same time. 287-2316 ask for  1, 2 & 3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1BDRM: $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO.  concert Mar 22 -Cleveland will take best offer. Mike X 4116  or Emile 4-32go PRIZES FOR 1st-3rd PlACES you know you want to  TROOP NOTRE DAME Campus Wide Talent Show SCREENINGS:  
Mark  AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPER­ "********""*TALENT SHOW**..***"""*  Mon. 2/28  3-1 Opm  
**LOST BIKE KEY**  TIES 272-6306  REGISTER:  
#on key is  k8413  AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY- Maclnttosh Classic with Image  I need a tutor for freeman's  . Mon. 2/28  12-3pm  
please call  MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ +  writer for sale.  $600 OBO.  organic chem class. I will pay well.  At Washington Hall  
X4022  TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ 273-3g2o.  call bridget at x3622  Call Ron for Q's  273-5g71  
Coat left in Career & Placement  (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  ND/SMC EVENTS (21g)2g1-7153  
about1 1/2 weeks ago. Call 631-5200, ask for Katie.  ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS  EX-ND STAFFER & SPOUSE  TICKETS  SUMMER JOBS -ALL lAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­ 
APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT  DESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED  TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS!  
TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP!  APARTMENT FOR THE SUMMER.  FOR SALE -1 Ticket to Los  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Free Food Night on Wednesday,  
LOST: oval-rimmed glasses in a  CALL (g1g)g2g.43g8 ext C2g  NON-SMOKERS. NO PETS.  Angeles for Spring Break. Call  NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­ March 2 at 7:30 at Senior Bar!!  
blue case. Small reward -call John  WRITE OR PHONE 135lAKE­ Chris at x4-1 o6g.  786-8373  Free Pizza! Free Pizza!  
@ 4-1722.  NEEDED:  VIEW DR., MULBERRY, FL 33860  SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS!  
SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2  OR PHONE (813)425-4404.  4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in  
WANTED  NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, Poughkeepsie pre!.  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  PERSONAL  Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close  My dearest KJ, Happy one-week anniversary!  
Will help$.  SECURITY SYSTEM  extended family in area. Let's help  Don't forget, You've got me  
AlASKA SUMMER EMPLOY- Please call Brian or Jason x1130  ALL APPLIANCES  each other. Mad/legal paid. Please  wrapped around your finger.  
MENT-fisheries. Many earn  1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS  ADOPTION: Loving, financially  call Jessica or Bob  
$2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­$6000+/mo. on fishing vessels.  Work in the Wild! Tour guide, dude -ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail  232 25g5  secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy  1-800-864-8385.  If you "Wanna be sedated" call X256g and share with us your  
Many employers provide benefits.  maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter  and Jerry 1-800-272-5810.  RamonesCD.  
No exp. necessary! For more info  + volunteer and government posi­ 3 BR, 2 Bath, Frplace, Full base- In a hurry ...  
call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584  lions available at national parks.  ment, 2 car garage, Walk to ND,  to the guy with the greatest laugh!  don't worry.  Schlage,  
Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over  $gOO/mo. Evenings: 616-471-7172  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOM PAKI  FAX IT!  Hi Sweetheart.  
25,000 openings! Apply now tor  -your london friends!  at  
.•  RIDE needed for 2 to St. Louis for  best positions. For more info call: 1­ THE COPY SHOP  Schlage,  
Spring Break. Call Christian  206-545-4804  SPRING BREAK TIME SHARE  LaFortune Student Center  Hi Sweetheart.  
@1226  ext. N5584  Orlando, Florida  NEW LOWER PRICES!  
$700 ­ sleeps 8  Quality Copies. Quickly.  Dancing! I LOVE dancing!  
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum- going back to Minnesota over  bars, pools, lake  THE COPY SHOP  ***My lips, two blushing pilgrims,  
mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­ break? I need a ride! $$ for gas,  5 minutes from Disney  LaFortune Student Center  ready stand, to smooth that rough  Boutros-Boutros Ghali ...  
021g  tolls. call kory x3040  call X2348 or X4508  Phone 631-COPY  touch with a gentle kiss-Romeo•••  have YOU ...?  


~~------~--.. -­

Thursday, February 28, 1994 


Have A Spring Break to Remember 
Spring Break... isn't that one of yourfavorite things t~> hear? It·s that break from the stresses and strains of school, if only f(x a sho11 time. But just because you're resting your body and mind doesn't mean you Gill stop thinking! 
BACCHUS and GAMl\IA encourage you to play it safe during Spring Break this year. Whatever your plans are. make sure they include these tips: 
• 
Remember you don't have to be "drunk" to be impaired--even one or two drinks affect your driving skills. 

• 
Drinking, dn.~gs and driving don't mix. 

• 
Take your turn being a designated driver--get everyone where they are going safely. 

• 
Respect other people's right, and your owtl-4o choose not to drink. l11ere's plenty of fun to be had without alcohol. 

• 
Respect state laws and campus policies. 

• 
Don't let your friends drive impaired-it's one of the fastest ways to end a friendship. 

• 
Wear your seat belt--it's your best protection against an impaired driver. 

• 
Ifone ofyour friends drinks to excess to d1e point of passing out, stay with him/her-make sure they sleep on their side and check their breathing periodically. If you are the least bit concerned, please seek medical attention. Better safe than sony! 


Play it safe...and sign the pledge. 
Sponsored By: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education Students Against Drunk Driving 
I 
: Have A Spring Break to Remember 
:The BACCHUS Spring Break Pledge: 
I • I promise not to drink and dri\·e during Spring Bre:1k. 
: or let any of my friends get behind the wheel impaired. I • I will not ride in a car when the drh·er has been : drinking. 
I • I will \vear mv seat belt, whether I'm drivi'ng or a : passenger. . ' · 
I • I \\ill watch out for mv friends. take care of m\·sdf and : have a great Spring B1:eak! . 
lsignl'd
1 Fill out re-.·erse side 
The Observer • BENGAL BOUTS 

Ploy It Safe for yovr ou..n Sat<e! Be A. Designated Driver! Wear Your' Seat Belt! i"" 
•

1 n 
..J 
DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE ! 
:5• 2. SIGN THE PLEDGE! 


SIGN THE SAFE SPRING BREAK PLEDGE IN 
SDH AND NDH FEB. 28 & MAR. I and 2--­
~ 
)!. YOU CAN POSSIBLY WIN PRIZES AND j YOU CAN DEFINITELY HAVE A SAFE BREAK! 
:f 
o 

O~========S~p;on~so~.re~d~by~ND~S:ru:de:n~~~Ag~•:~~tD~run~·~k~lli~iv:m~g.==============~;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;~ 
MINORITIES IN ACADEMIA 
A Presentation by 
DR. ARNOLD L. MITCHEM EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, N.C.E.O.A. WASHINGTON D.C. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 1993 
7:00 P.M. HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
SPONSORED BY THE CANDAX MCNAIR PROGRAM INTERESTED FACULTY AND STUDENTS ARE INVITED 
page 11 

Naticchia, 
Gerber claim 
big awards 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
Individual winners from the 64th annual Bengal Mission Bouts: 
Best Fight: Jeff Goddai"d's close win over John Christofer­etti was the best fight of the fi­nals, but for the entire Bouts no fight topped Dan Couri's upset of Butch Cabreros in the 145-pound semifmals. 
Cabreros was skilled and confident, Couri was skilled and humble. After the first two rounds appeared to go to Cabreros, Couri threw it all into the fmal round and pulled out the win. 
Worst Fight: Although the crowd loved it, Rob Naticchia's knockout of Kevin O'Rourke lasted only a little over a minute. What was billed as a great fight turned out to be a · Iaugher. 
Best Division: A tie between the 145 and 150 classes. Couri, Cabreros and Mike Ahern made 145 solid, but with the 
emergence of Rob Ganz at 150 and Chris Rosen and Dan Schmidt fighting solid, we have a draw. 
Biggest Upset: It took Natic­chia only 1:22 into the first to end favored O'Rourke's bid to repeat as the 175-pound champ. Naticchia, in his first year, added flair and a big punch to The Bouts. 
Biggest Disappointment: 150-pounder Dan Schmidt had the biggest upset and the best fight in last year's finals, but couldn't neutralize Rob Ganz's aggressive bull-rushes in the semifinals and missed a chance to repeat. 
Best Boxer: Jeff Gerber is only the seventh boxer in 64 years of Bengal Bouts to be­come a four-time champ. Enough said. 
Best Punch: Take your pick of the two Naticchia right hooks against O'Rourke. 
Worst Punch:·The low, too low, shot by Chad Harrison which forced heavyweight champion Matt Carr to take a much-needed breather midway through the second round. 
Tim Norton Award: The name of this award was changed from Biggest Bleeder to honor last year's winner, who may still be bleeding from 
last year's finals. This year, Sean Hamer is the honored, as he bled a river in losing to Couri in the quarterfmals. 
~-------------------------~~~==~R~E~F=R=ES=H~M~E-N-T~S-I-N==·L_I_B_R_A_R_Y_L~O-U_N_G_E_A_T==8-:_0_0_P_._M_·====~ 
I 
I 
I 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, February 28, 1994 
I 
I 
I 
,l 
I I 
I 
I 
Irish hockey leaves losing ways in 8-3 rout of Ferris State 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
A tie was nice. A win was needed. 
After tying a strong Michigan State squad on Thursday, the outlook for the Notre Dame hockey team seemed a little better. 
On Saturday, the Irish trav­eled to Ferris State and re­turned home with a convincing 8-3 victory-and a much brighter outlook. 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
chance. 
"A lOth grade high school girls team could have shot free throws better than we did," said Louisville coach Denny Crum, whose team hit just 28­for-43 from the line. "It was pathetic." 
Trailing 85-82 with six sec­onds left, Notre Dame tried to set up a 3-point opportunity for Hoover. 
But the Cardinals blanketed him, leaving Williams to dupli­cate Kurowski's earlier heroics. 
This time the ball caromed off the back of the rim. 
"The play was set for Ryan, but he couldn't get a good look," Williams said. "My shot felt good, but it just didn't fall." 
Strike three. 
Kurowski, who scored nine points in the last 1:19 of regula­tion, was absent in overtime. 
"He seemed to lose his lift," MacLeod said. "He is still not 100 percent (after pre-season knee surgery). I wish he was healthy, you'd see a much bet­ter player." 
He didn't look too bad Satur­day, scoring 14 first half points to keep Notre Dame close as Williams struggled. 
Louisville used several differ­ent defensive players on Williams, holding him to just eight points in the first half. 
"It was kind of nice to get a win going into the last weekend of the regular season," said Brett Bruininks, who tallied twice in the key win. "It gave us a lot of confidence and men­tally it should help get us back." 
Early on, it looked like the Irish might be in for another long night, as FSU scored two quick first period goals to jump out in front 2-0. 
Surprisingly, it was Notre Dame's usually dormant power play that got the Irish back on track. 
At the 7:10 mark of the sec­ond period, Ben Nelsen took advantage of a five on three edge and a Jamie Ling feed to beat Craig Lisko and cut the deficit in half. 
Thirty seconds later, Ling again showcased his playmak­ing talents, this time finding Bruininks for the tying goal. 
"I just happened to be in the right place at the right time," Bruininks said. "Jamie just hit 
But he rebounded to fmish with Dayton. a team-high 24. Hoover added "It's nice to get another great 
15. effort, but we'd like to get one 
Clifford Rozier led four Cardi­(in the win column)," MacLeod nals in double figures with 26. said. "There's a lot to be But he found himself in Crum's learned from this." doghouse for dogging it on de­But not much time to apply the fense on Kurowski's tying shot. lessons. 
"Cliff should never have al­lowed him to get that shot off," 
LOUISVILLE (85): Osborne 4·10 3·4 13, Morton 1·
Crum said, diagramming the 
6 0-0 2, Rozier 11-15 4·13 26, Minor 6·13 2·2 16, 
proper defense on a black­Wheat 3-9 10·15 17, Kiser 0·1 0·0 0, Sims 0·0 0-0 0, Simons 0-0 2-2 2, Rogers 1-1 5-5 7, Smith 0·0
board. "He should have gotten 
2-2 2. TOTALS: 26-57 26-43 65. out on him and put his hands NOTRE DAME (82): M. Williams 6-16 7·6 24, Taylor 1-4 0-0 2, Joe Ross 3-3 0-0 6, Hoover 4·1 0
up, but he let him come right 
4-4 15, Justice 0-6 0-0 0, Kurowski 11-20 0-0 23, 
up and shoot. Hopefully next Jon Ross 1-1 0-0 2, Cozen 2-3 2·2 6, Miller Q-1 0· 0 0, Hughes 0-0 0-0 0, White 1-1 0-0 2, J. Williams
time he won't make the same 
0-0 0-0 0. TOTALS: 31·65 13·14 62.

mistake." Halftime-Louisville 36, Notre Dame 34. Regulation-Louisville 70, Notre Dame 70. 3· point goals-Louisville 5·17 (Osborne 2-4, MinorNotre Dame also will learn a 2·6, Wheat 1·4, Morton 0·3), Notre Dame 7-16 . (Hoover 3·6, Cozen 2-2, Kurowski 1-2, M. Williams
lesson or two from Saturday's 
1·3, Taylor0-1, Justice D-1, Miller0-1). Total fouls game, but they will have to be (fouled out)-Louisville 16 (Morton), Notre Dame 29 (Cozen, Joe Ross). Rebounds-Louisville 36
carried over into next season. 
(Rozier 11), Notre Dame 39 (Williams 11).Only two games remain for the Assists-Louisville 16 (Wheat 5), Notre Dame 26 (M. Williams 6). Turnovers-Louisville 17
Irish, Thursday at Loyola (Ill.) 
(Osborne 4, Rozier 4), Notre Dame 16 (M. Williamsand Saturday at home against 6). Attendanc&-11,416 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applicationsfor the following paid position: 
Advertising
Account Executive 
Applicants should be looking for a great opportunity to gain valuable office and sales experience. Applicants should have strong self-motivation, creativity, and an interest in marketing and business. Anyone interested should submit a 1-2 page resume to Eric Lorge by 5 p.m. Tuesday, March 15'h in the advertising office, 3'd floor LaFortune. For more information, contact Eric at 634-1179 or 631-8840. 
me with some nice passes." 
Ten minutes later, the Irish would take the lead for good on Jay Matushak's seventh goal of the year. 
The game-winner would come five minutes into the third period as freshman Tim Har­berts gave goalie Greg Louder all the offense he would need. 
Louder's twenty saves earned him CCHA player of the week, the first time a Notre Dame player has earned that honor all year. 
Four more Irish goals, includ­ing another Ling-to-Bruiniks hook-up, secured the victory. 
"It was a great game for us," said coach Ric Schafer. "We're thrilled because it is defmitely a good sign for us. We played good, smart hockey and the comeback was nice. 
"Hopefully, we can parlay our new-found success into more victories and surprise some more people." 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 16 
things happen. Today, the other guys played well too, and Bill was the beneficiary." 
Jason Pett followed Hogan's efforts with a goal of his own to end the streak at five straight. 
It was the defense that helped in the effort as well. 
Along with the hustling mid­field, the long-sticked defense­men shut down the men from Happy Valley for nearly thirty minutes of play, including the entire third period and much of the fourth. 
Of the nine goals that were allowed by the Mike Iorio-led 
(/) 
'0 0 
:::3 
(/) 
0
..., 
(!) 
0. 


defensive unit, three were man-up goals while another three were scored with the game already decided. Their aggressive, yet patient style frustrated the Lions, who began to force shots. 
This tough defense allowed very few fast-break chances for PSU to capitalize on. 
"We controlled the ball for a lot of the time," said Corrigan. "We really didn't have any un­settled defensive situations." 
With most shots fired with a Notre Dame defender in the face of the shooter, goalkeeper Ryan Jewell was able to save 14 shots. In addition, his speed and ability to handle the stick made Penn State's ride highly ineffective. 

Natne 
School 
Address 
City/State/Zip 

Phone ( ) 
page 13

Monday, February 28, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
SCORECARD 

Men's Tennis: Defeated No.11 Alabama, lost to No. 8 Mississippi. 
Track: Mike Smedley and Erica Peterson led the Irish in a strong performance at the Alex Wilson Invitational. Men's Volleyball: Defeated Toledo University 15­3, 15-5, 15-5. Men's Swimming: Lost to LaSalle 1,062-674 in MCC Championships. Women's Swimming: Defeated LaSalle 841-830 in MCC Championships. SMC Track: The Belles set four school records at the Huntington Invitational. SMC Basketball: Lost to Franklin 90-68. 
Complete coverage in tomorrow's Observer. 
< AtTENTION: CINCINNATI · AREA STUDENTS 
The 1994 Xavier summer sessions bulletin of classes & workshops Is now available. Undergraduate & graduate level courses offered in the areas of arts and sciences, business, education, professional studies and social sciences. Session dates: May 16 -June 23 &July 5-August 11 
CALLORWRI~: 
X\VIEK 

I 
Summer Sessions UNIVERSITY 
3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207-3120 513/745-4381 
Xavier Uraiversily is an academic communily commilted to ~qual opportwti.'Y for all ~rsons r~gardlus ofag~. sex, rae~. r~ligion, handicap, or national origin. 
Poor performance sparks Irish 
By DYlAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
The end is in sight. There is but one game left to play in the regular season, and the Notre Dame women's basketball team 
is smiling. 
The scenario is much differ­ent from last season, when the Irish stood 
·at 14-11, an inconsistent team wonder­


ing whether to Carey Poor look forward to the start of the MCC tourna­ment with anticipation or trepi­dation. 
That team lost to Dayton 78­7 4 in the first round of the MCC tournament, to finish its season at an unremarkable 15-12. 
The same fate seems unlikely for this team. 
The new and improved Notre Dame women's basketball team stands at 19-6, and finds itself riding a three game win streak going into Thursday night's regular season finale at the JACC against Loyola. 
The Irish continued their win­
ning ways with a 72-67 road 
win against a Xavier team that 
does not lay down easily at home. The Musketeers' loss was only their second at home on the season, and the Irish win continued to show that they are capable of beating anyone on the road. 
The Irish won on another solid game from Beth Morgan, and a Poor performance from one of their best players off the bench. Morgan scored 23 points to lead the team for the fifth straight game, while sophomore forward Carey Poor turned in an amazing effort off the bench, scoring 18 points on 9-10 shooting and grabbing seven rebounds in only 20 min­utes of play. 
The team continued to start 
off strong, g{)ing on a 17-6 run 
in the final 5:32 of the second 
half to head into the locker 
room at halftime with a com­
manding 41-28 lead. The first 
half surge was led by none 
other than Morgan, who scored 
16 of her 23 points on 6-12 
shooting, including a perfect 3­
3 from the free-throw line. 
Forward Letitia Bowen also 
played well in the first half, 
scoring all seven of her points 
and grabbing eight of her 
game-high 11 rebounds. 
The Irish outrebounded the 
Musketeers 28-16 in the first 
half, and finished with a 47-36 edge on the night. 
The second half saw a much more determined Xavier team, as the Musketeers went on a 14-0 run to take the lead for the first and only time at 61-60 with 3:50 left to play. Forward Lynn Bihn chipped in eight of those 14 points, and finished the game with 15 points and a team high 10 rebounds. 
It was at this point that Poor really took over for the Irish, scoring six of the team's next ten points to put the Irish up 70-65 with 21 seconds to go: 
A jumper by Janet Haneberg, who finished with 11 points on 5-7 shooting, enabled Xavier to pull within three points of the Irish at 70-67 with only 11 sec­onds to play. 
The Musketeers, in an at­
tempt to get back the ball, com­
mitted two fouls to send Irish 
guard Sherri Orlosky to the lirie 
with eight seconds left on the 
clock. Orlosky hit both of her 
free throws to. seal the victory 
for the Irish, who will play for 
their 20th victory of the season 
in the seniors' fmal home game 
on Thursday night. 
"This was a big win for us," 
said head coach Muffet 
McGraw. "We seem to be peak­
ing heading into the tourna­
ment." 

·-­
A I f I I I I • c i. I I • 1 1 • 1 • .6 ... J 
page 14 

The Observer· IRISH BASEBALL HISTORY Thursday, February 28, 1994 
A tradition is· born: Irish baseball in the early years 
ByJENNY MARTEN played teams such as Dart­Senior Spons Writer 
mouth, Boston College, Seton Hall and Georgetown. Fourteen 
The following is the first arti­

years later Notre Dame made 
cle of a five part series chroni­

its first swing into the south, 
cling the history of baseball at 

starting a spring tradition that 
Notre Dame: 

continues today. Notre Dame also played a six Baseball was introduced to the 
to eight game series each yearNotre Dame community by one 
with the South Bend team, the of tlie game's all-time greats. 
Greens, while playing a six .-----_,Hall of Farner game series against the Chicago 
NOTREDAME Adrian "Cap"


BASEBALL White Sox in 1902 and a single · Anson showed the 
game against the Chicago Cubs students how to 
in 1911. play the game in The collegiate teams the Irish 1887. Anson's played and frequently defeated 1s 9 2 -19 94 game resembled a 
in the early years were not
TRADITION 

common amuse-push-overs. They too produced ment called "Rounder," a game professional players and Hall of played with a stick, a ball and Famers. any number of young men. One of these players is the in­Anson went on to star in the domitable Cy Young, who the 
big leagues with the Chicago Irish faced twice and beat twice Cubs, but it took a while for ·as a University of Wisconsin baseball to catch on at Notre pitcher in 1904. In the first 
Dame. Although the students meeting, Notre Dame won 4-3. seemed to take a liking to his The game was described in the game, it was not until 1892 that May 7 Scholastic. 
any outside contests were former player in the profes­Notre Dame rarely has an en­This wealth of talent led to "The chief interest in the game scheduled. In that year, Notre sional ranks who coached the rollment of over 750 collegiate success on the diamond. Be­outside the result itself, was the Dame baseball on the intercol­team before the big league sea­men, while most of her rivals tween the years of 1892 and duel between "Nig" Ruehlbach legiate level began with a 6-4 son opened or a coach from have an annual enlistment of · 1933, the Irish had only five and the redoubtable "Cy" victory over the University of another sport. Coach John Do­five and six thousand. losing seasons while from 1906 Young. "Cy" has the reputation Michigan. rias (1919-1920) was head "From the day the immortal to 1908 the team won 60 games of being one of the foremost The program grew slowly by coach of the baseball and bas­Adrian C. (Cap) Anson secured and lost only nine. The Irish box artists on the Western dia­adding games and opponents ketball teams as well as an as­his baseball diploma at Notre won 20 games in each of those mond, but Ruehlbach eclipsed each year. Finding players, sistant coach to Knute Rockne. Dame, to last spring when seasons, losing five in 1906, him on this occasion. His shoots however, was never a problem. The lack of consistent coach­young Lefty Murray joined the three in 1907 and only one in and benders totally bewildered The interhall league of Bron­ing never seemed to be a prob­Phillies, the hoosier institution 1908. the men from Wisconsin, eleven 
son, St. Edward's, Carroll and lem for Notre Dame's baseball has contributed enough men to A number of times in those of them fanning while four safe Sorin was highly competitive teams. Not with the caliber of the big leagues to make three early years, Notre Dame won drives were registered to their and served as almost a junior players that came here in the all-star teams with plenty of the Indiana state championship credit." varsity team where younger first forty years of the program. substitutes besides," wrote and in 1907 and 1908 won the Ruehlbach also won the sec­players could hone their skills In these years, well over 40 Philbrook. rights to the title "Champions of ond meeting 1-0 with a no-hit and get some playing experi­players headed to the major And this was written just 27 the West." shutout to best Young, who ence. Hence, tryouts with high leagues after their time at years after Notre Dame's first Opponents were not too hard struck out 14 in the game. turnout were held every year Notre Dame. official collegiate game. The to find. The Irish played college The war years made schedul­for the coveted positions on the Included in this group are numbers of Irish in the major teams across the country, the ing difficult and numerous "varsity nine." names like Dutch Bergman, leagues continued to grow as South Bend semi-professional games had to be canceled in 
No coach was available in Peaches O'Neill, Harry Curtis, the years went on. team, service base teams and a 1918 and 1919. Additionally, these early years so the teams Norwood Gibson and Rupert One notable Irish graduate in few professional teams. the Irish teams lost several were coached by the captain. Mills, and they went to teams the early 1900's had a lasting In the beginning, only schools players to enlistment for the The captain was responsible for all across the country, from the impact on major league base­that would travel to South duration of the war. instructing the players in the Chicago Cubs to the Boston ball. Although he was only a Bend, such as Northwestern, All in all, the first forty years fmer points of the game as well Braves. student at Notre Dame, Lou Nebraska, Wisconsin, Rush­of the Notre Dame baseball pro­as leading the team during In 1919, former Irish athlete Sockalexis went on to become Medical and Illinois, were gram saw an expansion of games. George Philbrook said of the one of the top Native-American played. scheduling, traveling and repu­
In 1894, John Flannigan cap­Irish contributions to the ma­athletes in the major leagues It was not until later that the tation as the Irish put together tained the Irish, who went 1-2 jors in The Oregonian. "Notre with the then Cleveland Spi­team was allowed to travel to winning season after winning that year, and his efforts were Dame University has sent more ders. play opponents. The 1899 sea­season. not overlooked. In the May 26 baseball stars to the major When a contest was held in son saw Notre Dame travel to By 1934, the Irish team was issue of Scholastic., it was said leagues than any other college 1915 to give the ball.club a per­Purdue, DePauw, Indiana, ready for the consistency of a that "Flannigan deserves the in the United States. This state­manent nickname, one of the Kalamazoo College and full-time coach. highest credit for his manage­ment, while remarkable in entries was a name honoring Michigan. ment of the team. Even during itself, is verily startling when Sockalexis and the Cleveland The first trip out east came in Tomorrow: The Jake Kline the bad weather that we have one considers the fact that Indians were born. May of 1908 when the Irish Years (1934-1975). had lately he had the men out every day for practice. Varsity should recognize the work of their leader and play with a 
vim." 
Frank Hering, who was the track coach at the time, became the first official baseball coach in 1897 and he held the posi­tion for three years. In these early years coaches were scarce, so when there was a coach it was usually either a 
Montego Bay r•om$449 Negr'lf lrom$479 Cancun t•om $469 
•u.,•rNI'N !rom lndlanapDib., Chlcatolll 
'OMr popvllll' d-a1ton1 lnolvd• P-Ill" CIIJ' & Dayi!Ma IMtll, florldo '(aU for morwlnf.....,..tlonlll 

I , I 
12 


Monday, February 28, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER GARY LARSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
S110IJLD I 'STI\" \~SIDE IT'S AWPJLL'I COLD 0\JT, 
OR Go 0\JTSIOE? I S\JI'I'OSt: I CO\Jl\) BVNOLE \JI'. IT lOOKS. W\~U" 1\-\()N\\. tNT STILL, I'D U\<E TO GO 
SU:.DD\t-IG. T\-\t.N AGI:>.IN., \Jtf..'(SE I'D I<AII-1ER S\1\i IN. ON 1\\E On\t.R. 1-\(l..NIJ •.. 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
l~:.om"llm£-\(, Torn{, i\ -::::-:.u(l-1 WA' l o\( CMn••"' ~'),-p_,p 1-s ):!uN w~IC.f\ CA-s.E W•n' i\ A ll\11.6£ OON {,J£
Amou,....-CJv ~o\'t.E TI-IA, No ll.SE I< A 
Fuo:~>bE"t> 
/\PoL•&'""\··· 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Tomb tenant 62 Broadway groom of 1922 
1 Hearth debris 34 All fired up? 63 Sister of Thalia 
1 Atmosphere 37 Future brass 10 Columnist 41 Modeled, 64 Bridge seat Bombeck maybe 65 Bank holding 14 Room to_ 42 Mountain ridge 
&& Prepare to 
43 Peruvian of yore 

11 Skater Heiden shave 
44 Neptune's fork 

16 High time? 
46 Physicist Niels 

t7 Critical juncture 
DOWN
47 Work, work, 20Parade work 1 Cleo's snakes 21 Some oranges 49 Its password 2 Flyspeck 22 Roasting items was "Mickey 3 "Let the 21 Sometimes they Mouse" Sunshine In" 

get the hang of it 51 Trotsky rival musical 
26Woollyone 52 Straight 
4Sea bird 30 Carnegie Hall 
shooters? 
5 Bristles 

event 57 Stops rambling 6W.W.I grp.
32 Where Marco 61 Algerian 7 Mausoleum Polo traveled seaport 
item e"Roadto-" 9 Beginnings of 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE poetry? _.::::--r:-r::~-r.::-. 10 Involve ~:,.....:;~--e-F-1 11 Beauty aid -=-t:-+::±+.:-:+'::'-1 12 Folkways ~=+=::+;,,..r,:.+:;-~ 13 Writer Beattie 
and others 18 Poet translated by FitzGerald 

19 Toledo locale ~~~ ,.._=-+:::+:=:+::=-+=-! 23 Depended -=-..:±~'!!It=+:=+-~~ 24 Perfumed 
~=-+:+-e.B 26 Senate output 27 On the briny 28 "Gorillas in the 
" 
BILL WATTERSON 
1\.\E \-\ORE \N\)Ec\'SI\IE I />.M.., T1-\E FA'STER Tl-1\t-\GS GET \)EC.\\)E\). 
"}l· .~
0 
o -a 
0 
0 
0 
" 0 
=­
0 
"· 
Z·Z8~ 
DAVE KELLETT 
I,.Jt"cL NE~ER RuN ANol ""' R. 1'f-lo1 o ();: A NME. t> tiiBoo L'i'"' & 01" A l3£P.ol f\6A•N--. Tl-IE """("~au'"\ ScAr'"\ 
l\1\NC, Is 11\A...-THIS I GREASE 8ALL "booFUS !-\AS Ht'> OwN 
56 Common sign 


GO OUT AN~ Cl.nSE 
1HE \t)QR! 
" ..~: 
...-:: 0 
0 • 
0 
0 

So fY\""''-1 OF ~ov (ALlEr> \N To 1/oo~C Ljoul< E'l.TR£1'\E 1>•S~US1 ANb R£PUbNAN~£ TI-IAT !t-lE (~N 
O.c'"\ 'S "''"\ .. 
34 Host Jay star 
50"Egad!"
35Yen 58 Sash51 Barge

36 Ivan, for one 53 McHenry, e.g. 
59 Cause for 38 Church front overtime 

area 54 Mi.inchhausen, for one 60 Clucker
39 Expensive rug 40 Fish in a way 44Aptitude 
Get answers to any three clues 
45Weight 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
allowance 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
"The dentist just buzzed me, Mrs. Lewellyn -he's ready to see Bobby now." 
OF INTEREST 


JV\te...-ested ill\ w...-iti"'9' editi"'9' photog...-aphy, o...-g...-aphics? 
Call The Obse...-ve...-at 631-7471 fo...­iV\fo.-.matioV\ abot.-t+ available positioV\s. 

-
SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, February 28, 1994 
Lacrosse opens season with impressive 12-9 victory 
By TIM SHERMAN dous defense, the middies played good, a three minute unreleasable illegal stick Sports Writer and we scored. I'm pleased." penalty, Notre-Dame ripped off five What makes Notre Dame's victory unanswered scores to take a command­
Nagging injuries, stupid penalties, and even more impressive is the fact that the ing 11-6 lead. Nittany lions. Irish were whistled for 11 penalties, During this stretch, it was the mid­
All three tried, but while the Nittany Lions, who ended the fielders who came up big. none could stop the 
1993 season ranked 19th in the nation, Senior Willie Sutton got the burst hungry Notre Dame were flagged for just two. started with two goals midway through lacrosse team from "You can't complain about the refs," the third period. marching to a 12-9 said Corrigan. "All it means is that we Fellow middie Bill Hogan took it from season-opening victory didn't get the opportunity to go man­there, as the freshman scored at the over Penn State yester­up." 12:37 mark of the fourth and again at day at Loftus Sports Still, the Irish scored all they needed the 11:18 point. Center. at even strength. "I had a good feeling today," said 
Despite having a cou­Two spurts basically accounted for Hogan. "I wasn't getting many chances ple players banged-up Willie Sutton Notre Dame's offense. (his line was kept off the field by penal­(Marc Pasquale and The first came early, as the Irish ties), but when I did, I just took it to the Chris Bury), coach Kevin Corrigan had jumped out to a 4-llead. Senior attack­cage. Obviously, I'm pretty happy." to be pleased with his team's first outing er Steve Manley led the charge with two His coach was happy too. of the spring season. of those goals. "Bill's a kid who can make some 
"We had guys doing the right things After seeing Penn State come back to today," said Corrigan. "We had tremen-tie the game at halftime with the help of see LACROSSE I page 12 
Gerber stars in thrilling end to Bouts 
By GEORGE 
unanimous deci­DOHRMANN sion over John Sports Editor Bradshaw in the 
140-pound final. There were big After the deci­blows, low blows sion, Gerber's and no blows. accomplishment There was a stirring moment, was announced by referee a close call and a bloody Tom Suddes and the crowd brawl. But after three hours gave the Newburyport, Mass. the lights went out on the 64th native a standing ovation. 
annual Bengal Mission Bouts "I really didn't feel worthy," with eleven champions said Gerber of the ovation. "I crowned. just kept on thinking about all 
The night was wrapped up the people who had done it be­in anticipation, disappoint­fore. I had the opportunity to ment and victory, but it all fight with Mike Trainor and seemed to stop for a brief sec­Kerry Waite (past four-time ond as The Bouts honored the champions) but I never put champion of champions. myself in their class." 
Dillon Hall senior Jeff Everyone else did. Gerber Gerber became only the sev­has been the best fighter by enth four-time champion in far in recent years and he Bengal Bout history with a 
see BOUTS I page 10 
Irish upset thwarted in overtime 
By JASON KELLY When sophomore Keith Kurowski took extra period, but then the offense Associate Sports Editor a pass from Joe Ross and pulled up for slowed. a tying 3-point attempt with time run­Tick Rogers converted a 3-point play 
Notre Dame is college basketball's ning out in regulation, the Joyce Center to give Louisville an 84-82 lead with 23 over-ambitious sparring partner, stag­held its breath. seconds remaining. gering the contenders with unexpected It exhaled in its most raucous celebra­Notre Dame played for the win, set­jabs. tion of the season moments later when ting up a 3-point shot rather than look­
The Irish did it again Saturday, nearly Kurowski's shot dropped to tie the ing inside. Williams had what knocking out No. 13 Louisville before game at 70 and force overtime. appeared to be an open shot, but dropping an 85-82 overtime decision. "It wasn't a devised play, it was just DuJuan Wheat stripped the ball from 
The Cardinals have title fights ahead. instinct," said Kurowski, who finished behind. Notre Dame can only look in the mir­with a career-high 23 points. "I shot it "We were going for it," MacLeod said. ror and wonder what might have been. from about 23 or 24 feet. It was "We had a play that we thought would 
"It's frustrating," said Irish senior desperation, but it wasn't a chuck. I get the shot for us. We wanted the Monty Williams. "For the seniors this used my regular form and I knew it home run." was the last chance to play against a had a chance as soon as I released it." Instead it was a swing and a miss. team like this. This is our last week of Notre Dame struck early in overtime, Billy Taylor quickly fouled Wheat, college basketball." behind four straight points from who missed the first of two free 
That frustration will fade. The memo­Williams. throws, giving the Irish another ry of Saturday's thrilling finish will A Ryan Hoover 3-pointer gave the Irish sophomore Keith Kurowski drained a three­linger. Irish a·-77-73 lead midway through the pointer with time expiring to send Saturday's
see HOOPS I page 12 



match-up with No. 13 Louisville into overtime. 

Women's Hoops Freshman Beth Morgan led the Irish past Xavier this weekend with 23 points. 

see page 13 


'I 
Hockey Brett Bruininks scored two goals in Notre Dame's 8-3 trouncing of Ferris State. see page 12 
Inside SPORTS 
Bengal Bouts 


The 64th annual Bengal Bouts concluded with flare and excitement. 
see page 11 

