

Wednesday, February 16, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 91 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Conway wins, others must wait Plans for upcoming JPW 
By LISA WHISLER with 26.2 percent. and the tick­News Writer et of Jennifer O'Dell, Jennifer 
include Hollywood, Holtz 
SAINT MARY'S
Wicker. Erin Kopfer, and Beth By KATE CRISHAM President Father Edward Mal­The results of class elections Renken came in last with 17.8 

CLASS ELECTIONS 
News Writer loy will preside over Mass inare in for the class of '95 at percent of their class's vote. Saint Mary's, however, the Three and one half percent of 
the South Dome of the JACC. This year's Junior Parents Following Mass, juniors and
Class of 1995 39.9% voted
student body will have to wait the junior class abstained. 

Weekend (JPW) festivities will their parents will adjourn to cial 48 hours after the votes 
These results will only be offi­
incorporate a Hollywood theme the North Dome of the JACC for were tallied provided that there 
to welcome members of the the "Directors Dinner". are no appeals, according to 
junior class and their parents, Highlights of the dinner will election commissioner Maureen 
according to Meaghan Weis, include a performance by the Sullivan. 
JPW vice-chairperson. Notre Dame Glee Club and a As in the past, there was low 
The weekend, themed speech by Malloy, said Weis. voter turn-out. Only 39.9 per­
"Lights, Camera, Action!", will The weekend will close with a commence Friday night with a Sunday brunch featuring ato see who will be the class offi­cent of the junior class voted. 
"Night at the Oscars" gala in slide show of junior memoriescers for next year's sophomore "We are upset that only 39 and junior classes, due to a percent of the junior class 
the Joyce Athletic and Convoca, and a speech by head football possible violation in campaign voted," Condon said, "but we 
·tion Center. The gala, which is coach Lou Holtz.
• Kristin Conway 
the traditional JPW opening "Lou Holtz will be a great ad­procedures. are happy for the other ticket, 
• Molly Condon 
event, will include food, danc­dition to this year's JPW," saidThe ticket consisting of and we gave it a try." 
Kllil Jennifer O'Dell 
ing, and a cash bar, said Weis. Weis. "He's very well-known,Kristin Conway for President, 
D Abstain 
On Saturday, parents will and a very inspirational speak­dent, Jo Hakenbruck for Secre­Purnhage) won. They deserve 
Holly Purnhage for Vice Presi­''I'm glad they (Conway/ 
have the opportunity to attend er." tary, and Liz Broghammer for it. They campaigned hard, but 
workshops sponsored by each "Our turnout for the brunch
Class of 1996, 
of the various colleges. These is much higher than usual, andTreasurer won with 52.5 per­we have a lot of energy and we 
Class of 1997 
workshops will give parents the I'm sure that's at least partly O'Dell said. 
cent of the vote. still want to make changes," opportunity to meet with pro­because of the presence of
Results pending investigation 
fessors and listen to speeches Coach Holtz," she added. 
''I'm excited," Broghammer Both losing tickets declared 
of possible election infractions 
from the deans of each college. JPW has remained an impor­more service projects. I want tions on the senior class board. 
said. "Our first priority is to get that they plan to apply for posi­
In addition, there will be in­tant tradition at Notre Dame this to be a fun year that we tions in campaign procedures. formational programs and open because "it's very important for will all remember." Run-offs will not be until next There was confusion in stu­houses sponsored by the Center your parents to get to know the 
week for the classes of '96 dent activities as to whether or for Social Concerns, Inter­place where you have spent the 
The Molly Condon, Erin Ryan, and'97. The elections commit­not the deadline for handing in national Studies Program, and past three years," said Weis. Robin Clanin, and Kristen tee will be meeting today to in­campaign receipts was met, ac­the three branches of the Notre "It gives them an opportunity Martina ticket came in second vestigate some possible viola-cording to Sullivan. Dame R.O.T.C. 
Saturday evening, University see JPW I page 4 
Radio news 



Gould: Success of liberalism has base in location 
By LAUREN AIMONETTE News Writer 

future is 

Andrew Gould, assistant pro­fessor in the Department of

uncertaln• 

Government and International 
Studies, attempted yesterday to By JENNIFER ANTONINI 
explain why liberal movements News Writer in nineteenth century Western 
Europe were more successful in 
Doug Cunningham, a news certain countries than others. director for WVPE 88.1 FM. Gould compared the nations spoke last night on his of Switzerland, France. Bel­experiences with the gium, and Germany from 1815 National Public Radio and to 1914 and the different types offered hopeful journalists a of regimes and forces that ruled look into what their future in these countries. radio news broadcasting Switzerland and Germany might include. were introduced as the ex­
Cunningham's career as a tremes of victory and defeat of news broadcaster began the liber!ll movement respec­after his alternative, tabloid tively, and then France and paper, The Flint Voice, fold­Belgium were cited as the in­ed. He has worked many termediates. different news formats A critical factor in his argu­including rock, Christian ment was the relationship of broadcasting, and adult con­urban liberals to the country­servative radio. side in each nation. Gould said 
During his career he was that cultunii cleavages shaped arrested in the middle of a the successes and failures of live broadcast at the scene of liberal movements. a chemical leak. He contin­Immediately, Gould intro­
The Observer/Laura Grandahl 
ued his coverage of the spill duced the two leading lines of from the back of a police car opposition to his theory. The Andrew Gould, assistant professor in the Department of Government and International Studies lectured to as he was being taken to the first opposition is the inability students last night on the success of liberal movements in Western Europe in the nineteenth century. police station. His refusal to of his theory on the surface to 
ory. democratization before the rev­Then he stated that this simi­make a deal with the police explain the rise of Napoleon, He went on to state that the olution is a key element of his larity in the rate ofled to his case goitlg to trial. the second is the hypothesis transition period would entail theory of cultural cleavages. democratization by regimeCunningham's station aba:il~ that the character of either formally broad suffrage Gould responded to the idea proves that it is cultural cleav­doned him and be bad to live industrialization determined with restrictions or restrictive of industrialization determining ages that determine the originswith the misdemea · the middle classes in the coun­suffrage formally but with the the type of government power of liberal dominance. 
charge on his record afte tries and these middle classes, beginnings of independence, by comparing the regimes of The crescent region compari­was convicted. . in turn, determined what type and suggested Switzerland as the industrial crescent of north­son can better explain, saidHe finally made the switch · of government was present. 
an example of a country in ern Europe during the time Gould, differences in the origins in his career from working Gould challenged this opposi­transition in this period, as it period. of liberal dominance than char­for commercial radio to pub; tion by presenting tables that formally had broad suffrage but Comparing Nord, France, acter of industrialization in thelie radio. Cunningham made incorporated these opposing did not have a secret ballot. Himulat-Namur-Liege, Belgium, different countries. 
the switch to achieve maxi~ views into his theory. Splitting The transition period also en­and Rhineland, Germany, Gould Gould gave his lecture "Lib­mum freedom in his report~ the time period of 1815-1914 compasses the Paris Revolution demonstrated that areas in the eral Democracy or Conservativeing. He referred to National into three sections, elite politics of Feb. 1848 which Gould sees industrial crescent were more Dictatorship: Regimes andPublic Radio as "complete~ from 1815-1840s, transition as having a significant effect on similar in their development of Cultural Conflicts in Westernthorough, and in-depth" ... Hi$ period from 1847-1870s, and the development of liberal dom­liberal democratization than Europe, 1815-1914" in thepersonal_goals for the fut.uf(:} mass politics from 1870s-1914, 
.·:···:·:\:.<~;} :. ·:··~.•,:::=:=·:= inance. Gould stresses that the areas were with their Hesburgh Peace Center at

Gould managed to better fit the whether or not a country had respective country. 12:30 on Tuesday.
reign of Napoleon into his the­page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 


The saga of the 
•


soaps continues ... Lillehammer 
"like sand through the 
Mary Good 

hourgalss," so are the 
Saint Mary's 

Days in Lillehammer ... 
Sporn Editor
Tune in today for Day

Five of the ongoing -------­Winter Olympic saga. Perhaps today will be the day McDonald Carey gets a job as a CBS Sports commentator. Why not? The scene has been perfectly set in Lillehammer, Norway. 
Like any soap opera, the 1994 Winter Olympics are jam packed with drama. The main plot line this week has audiences every­where dying to know what will become of the scandal between the show's sweetheart, Nancy Kerrigan, and the town, or rather the country, villain, Tonya Harding. 
It is the classic story of two women in head to head competition for their one true love. The twist? The object of the amorous tensions is not Beau Brady, but figure skating and the Olympic gold. Jealousy led to conspiracy and Kerrigan's hopes and chances were nearly destroyed. But that would be too simple for daytime drama, right? Now it is time for some courtroom action and the deciding moment. The women will face each other on the ice. 
Meanwhile, back in Hamar Viking Ship Olympic Hall (this is where it gets good), the heartbreak happens. 
United States speedskating hero Dan Jansen takes a fall. He has always been an unlucky character even in the re-runs. You'd thihk an old-timer to the story would finally get his chance this time, but not on this channel. 
In 1984 Jansen was the young newcomer. Understandably the underdog, right? By '88 he should have gained enough respect from the writers to get a medal, but NO! Fall-number­one on top of just learning of his sister's death from leukemia. In '92 the script still slighted him, and now in 1994 it looks like Jansen's show has been cancelled pending on Friday's ratings. 
What next? Ah yes, the accident-the hospi­tal scene. 
United States luger, Duncan Kennedy, wipes out. Looks like he won't be getting a Daytime Emmy this year. That's okay though, his tragedy will be good smut for Soap Opers Digest. 
And what soap would be complete without that male pride and rivalry? 
After a poor_ performance against France on Sunday, U.S. Hockey goalie Mike Dunham was forced to give up the glory to Garth Snow who has taken his place in the starting line-up. With luck like that, he better watch out for that Zamboni machine! 
And the weather is perfect. Dangerously cold. It is nearing -20 degrees in Lillehammer and the cast of competitors is nervously waiting to see if the show will go on. Audiences are equal­ly as anxious. 
Well, you may have thought as I once did that the Olympics were all about patriotism and coming together with other countries to enjoy some peaceful competition. These games, how­ever, are much more intense than that. They're addictive and controvesial and the country wants the scoop. 
"So, until next time, these have been the Days of Lillehammer ... " 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and are not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Mike O'Hara Christopher Mullins Mary Good Susan Marx Sports Accent 
Tim Seymour Kenya Johnson Viewpoint Gerrie Hamilton Brian Seiler Lisa Monaco Lab Tech Graphics 
Tom Zipprich Brendan Reagan 

The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February ·16, 1994 
NATION AT AGLANCE 
QMainent~ 

f) 
Information and service 8 Public telephones0 Restaurant GKitchen (;) Swimming pool8 Technical installations QRestrooms 

f) 
Concession stands 

G) 
Dressing rooms $Elevators e VJP-Iounge4D Main-camera tribune ~ Em£rgency exit G VIP entrance & em£rgency exit 4D Media/commentators 

6) 
Ventilation installations 


Source: Ullehammer Olympic Organizing Committee 
Clinton pushes for strict crime bill 
LONDON 
President Clinton stepped up pres­sure on Congress to pass a tough and smart crime bill Tuesday but warned against reaching too far in trying to put chronic, violent offenders behind bars for life. Surrounded by a field of uni­forms at the Ohio Peace Officers Training Academy, Clinton declared, "The American people have waited on this bill long enough." Clinton reiterat­

ed his support for a "three strikes and you're out" pro­posal to require life imprisonment of repeat violent offenders. But he pointed out that most violent crimes are state -not federal -offenses and cautioned against making the provision too broad. "There should be no partisanship in this, no politics, no posturing," he said. "We shouldn't litter it up with every offense in the world that the average police officer would tell you on the front end shouldn't be part of it. 
Judge's son opens fire on policemen 
TORRANCE 
A masked gunman who opened fire in a meeting room filled with police officers, killing two before being wres­tled to the ground and dying himself, was the son of a state appellate court judge. David Joseph Fukuto burst into the room brandishing two handguns, a 9mm and a .22-caliber with a homemade silencer, and yelled "This is a robbery!" officers said. The son of Justice Morio Fukuto of the state Court of Appeal was wearing a bullet­proof vest, mask and hooded sweatshirt. 

NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 16.
Wednesday, Feb. 16 · Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 0 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STOAMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated PreSIJ
KY. 
.#A 
~ 
-~ 
h 
~~­
;;:.~ 
~~~. 
A. 
:.A 
Events: Ice Hockey • 16 matches. Location: Roverdalen, Municipality of Gjovik. Number of athletes: 12 teams with 23 players (276 in all). Dimensions: The hall has been built 120m. into the hillside. Approximately 7,000 sq. m. of floor space.

Environmental measures 
Spectator capacity: 5,505 seats. t Located close to the city center without occupying valuable land. t Located in rock. The even temperature reduces energy consumption. t Built in conjunction with aswimming pool and a Norwegian Telecom installation. t The choice of transport routes for excavated mass based on environmental criteria. t Energy-saving measures whereby the air conditioning system includes a heat recovery plant 
Mountain 

l.•..

and the air conditioning units are fed with water-conducted heat This facilitates recycling of energy from the refrigerating plant. Water-saving shower units have been installed. entrance ... 1'1!1 J 
AP/Ed De Gasero 
Tonya leaves home to compete 
PORTLAND 
Tonya Harding, leaving her legal troubles behind for a time, headed for Norway today to fulfill her "dream of being able to compete in the Olympics." The U.S. nation­al champion figure skater arrived at Portland International Airport in a white stretch limousine. "Thank you, everyone, for coming out today," Harding said in a brief statement to reporters. "I hope that my performance is as well as Tommy Moe's performance in the downhill ski. I was really excited when I heard about it." Moe won the gold medal Sunday in the men's down­hill Alpine skiing, becoming only the second American to take that prize. "I just want to thank everyone for their support and I'm really excited," Harding said. "Keep believing in me and I'm going to go there and I'm going to win." She then boarded a flight for Seattle en route to Lillehammer, Norway. Harding leaves behind a grand jury investigation into her actions surrounding the attack on rival figure skater Nancy Kerrigan. 
Mardi Gras is the final bash before Lent 
NEW ORLEANS 
Revelry replaced reality Tuesday as Mardi Gras packed the streets with parades and people -some dressed up and some stripped down -for the final fling before Lent. ''I'm 73 years old and I've seen things in public here that I never even saw in private before," said Fred Jefferson, a retired grocer from Des Moines, Iowa. Beads, which are bartered for flashes of flesh, were plentiful and no one had more than Valerie Dillon of Chicago, a student at Bates College in Maine. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Via Associated Press Graph/csNet C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Atlanta 57 33 Denver 58 21 New York 35 18 Baltimore 47 23 Houston 60 43 Philadelphia 47 22 Boston 28 13 Los Angeles 77 50 Phoenix 77 47 Chicago 40 29 Miami 74 68 St. Louis 55 36 Columbus 49 34 t.!linneapolis 30 18 San Francisco 58 47 Dallas 65 42 New Orleans 63 33 Seattle 48 44 

--··-· 
Wednesday, February 16, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Refugee issue growing globally GSU election to consist 
ByKARASPAK 
News Editor 
The United Nations High Commission for Refugees ability to deal with growing problems of refugees is significantly 
decreasing  said  Gilburt  
Loescher.  
Loescher  describes  the  

refugees problem as going be­yond just a humanitarian con­cern into a central issue of modern day international rela­tions. The refugee problem is "every nation's problem", stat­ed Loescher, as states become increasingly interdependent. 
The refugee problem stretch­es around the globe to such countries as the former Yugoslavia, Somalia, Armenia, Burma and Rwanda, and with refugee emergencies becoming "the hallmark of the post Cold War period", the UNHCR finds itself "stretched to the limit", according to Loescher. 
The UNHCR has failed to ad­dress problems like internal displacement, in which refugees find themselves stranded within their own countries. Currently there is no international organization to protect the internally displaced and Loescher recognizes this need as one of the primary faults of the current UNHCR. A need exists for the development of a permanent United Nations special representative position dealing solely with the prob­lems of the internally displaced. 


B ~~~ 
RH 
Saint
IUMarys
ASNK  Co[fege 'Weanesaay, !february 16  
~~  7:30p.m.  
.&  !free .9Lamission  

y 
For Those Who Appreciate The Difference 

~ 
Singer/Songwriter Songstylist Sui Generis 100% Real Music No Computer Gimmicks or 
Digital Trickery Art Before Image 
In Your Heart. Not In Your Face 
WINNER ·GRAND PRIZE·l993 SUNDANCE FILM FESTIVAL 

"TWO ENTHUSIASTIC THUMBS UP! 
ATERRIFIC MOVIE." 
-Siskel &Ebert 



"**** 
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL AMERICAN MOVIE OF 1993." 
-Dave Kehr. NEW YORK DAILY NEWS 
RADIANT AND INTELLIGENT."
"****
-John Anderson, NEW YORK NEWSDAY 
"AN AMERICAN INDEPENDENT GEM. 
Ashley Judd is ajoy to watch:' 
-Thelma Adams, NEW YORK POST 
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 17TH 7:00 PM SNITE MUSEUM OF ART ADMISSION $2 (no 
ACCLAIMED DIRECTOR VICTOR NUNEZ WILL PRESENT 
HIS FILM AND ANSWER QUESTIONS FOLLOWING THE FILM. PRESENTED BY NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE WITH HELP FROM I.S.L.A. AND GENDER STUDIES 
The UNHCR, an organization relying upon donations rather than continued funding, has had a difficult time dealing with this recurrent humanitarian is­sue. Loescher reports that "the gap is growing between what UNHCR is asked to do and what it can do." Stable funds are needed to fund the continuing change on refugee problems. 
No one will remain immune to the growing problem of refugees in an increasingly in­dependent world. The UNHCR will have to broaden its range of functions as an organization in order to continue to supply aid to the increasing problem of refugees. 
Loescher, professor of gov­ernment and International Studies and Kroc Institute Fac­ulty Fellow, lectured on Tuesday, Feb. 15, at the Res­burgh Center for International Studies. 
SUMMER JOBS IN CINCINNATI 
Property Management firm in Cincinnati is looking for individuals to work as landscapers. Work full time maintaining grounds at apartment communi­ties throughout Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky. Send a letter of interest to: Mark Ahern, 255 East Fifth St., Suite 2300, Cincinmiti, Ohio 45202. A pre-employment drug test will be required. 

of single candidate ballot 
By CORRINE DORAN 
News Writer 
Graduate students will have more than just the opportunity to elect a president and vice president for the Graduate Stu­dent Union (GSU) today as the 
reil!lnlm111ill11 ~~Ill@ 111~1 
ballot contains a chance for graduate students to express what issues they feel need to be addressed by the organization. 
The ballot contains one ticket made up of third year govern­ment student Ed Wingenbach for president and ftrst year so­ciology student Elizabeth Schaefer for vice president. 
While it only consists of one ticket, the GSU is using the bal­lot as an informal, write-in poll to fmd out what issues gradu­ate students find critical, according to Lezlie Knox from the Elections, Credentials, and Procedures Committee. 
A central theme of the Win­genbach/Schaefer platform deals with changing the status of graduate students in their relationship with the University. 
"Grad students work for the University but have none of the rights and benefits of employ­ees," the platform reads. "We will investigate the possibility of changing the classification of graduate students who provide services to the University." 
Involved in the issue of status is health insurance. 
"If employer health insurance mandates are passed by Congress, we will be left out unless we are employed by the University," reads the platform. 
The platform also desires unionization to attain collective bargaining rights for graduate students. 
Continuing efforts made by this year's GSU in increasing diversity and tolerance at the University as well as participa­tion in the GSU itself is also part of the Wingenbach/ Schaefer platform. 
The elections will be today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the GSU office in LaFortune or in the lobby of Hesburgh Library. 

There will be a dinner meeting for all Saint Mary's faculty, administrators and students interested in volunteering for The Storybook Festival on Thursday, February 17 at 5:30p.m. in Haggar College Center Game Room. Volunteers are needed to assist with set-up on Saturday, February 26 and during the afternoon and evening on Sunday, February 27. Saint Mary's is collaborating with Early Childhood Development Center and WNIT Television on The Storybook Festival as the College's sesquicentennial community service project. 

Sunday, Fehruary 27 I to 5 p.m. Madeleva Hall 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 16, 1994 

RADIO Malloy speaks to HPC on pressing student concerns 
According to Malloy, the problem lies in "not what we charge but the discrepancy with what we charge and what people have to pay." 
The Council reviewed the Colloquy beforehand and got a chance to express their views and ask questions of Malloy. 
"We concentrated on student life such as 24-hour space on campus. We felt that was the area we wanted to look into the most," said Hall President Co­Chairman Chris Canzoneiro. 
Keenan Co-President Rich Palermo asked what part stu­dents would have "as revisions happen, in deciding where 24­hour spaces are going to be." 
There is an ongoing renova­tion cycle with each dorm and the university would "explore what kind of space would fit the purposes intended," said Malloy. "And increase in 24­hour space all depends on the demand from students." 
A major concern with Lewis Hall is the enormous number of girls that have applied to live in Cavanaugh Hall next year. 
"There are 150 girls from Lewis that have applied to Cavanaugh which is over fifty percent of our dorm. The forty or so that go leaves one hun­dred girls that are going to be unhappy," said Lewis Co­President Cheryl Lehner. 
She really feels that the dorm lacks spirit. 
"I want everyone in the dorms to be happy. We'll do anything we can do to maxi­mize pride and spirit in the dorms, despite the fact that people in large numbers want to move out," Malloy said. 
In other HPC news, the Student Union Board is spon­soring the Acoustic Cafe Logo Contest. They are looking for a new logo and slogan and entries can be turned in to the Student Government office by 5 
p.m. on Monday, February 21. The prize will be two tickets to an upcoming SUB concert. 



continued from page 1 
include making the transition from news coverage to hosting his own show. 
His tips for anyone looking for a future in radio news broadcasting is to be deter­mined and to have a "salesman thick skin". Cunnigham describes the "employers mar­ket" as being highly competi­tive. "You need to ask yourself, do I really have a gift for this, do I enjoy this?" He says that employers are looking for a "no arrogance" attitude. 
College students can get ex­perience from working on col­lege radio stations. Reporters just starting out in the field need to prove themselves and realize that the job is not always glamorous with its low­paying positions. Cunningham explains that we need to "make opportunities for ourselves". 
Cunningham gave a glimpse into the future of radio news broadcasting. He fears that someday soon we might be able to plug into what we want, when we want it, without rely­ing on reporters. But, he feels that if public radio comes to an end, something will replace it. 
JPW 
continued from page 1 
to meet your friends, profes­sors, and see where you spend your time." 
"JPW will give my parents the chance to meet my roo­mates and their parents," said Lewis Hall junior Angie North. "Otherwise, they might never have met until graduation." 
St. Edward's Hall junior E. L. Chaffee agrees. "I think it's a great opportunity for my par­ents to get to know me better," he said. "By meeting my friends, and visiting the places where I spend my time, they'll be able to understand me bet­ter." 
By JOSLIN WARREN 
News Writer 
As an added bonus to this week's Hall Presidents' Council Meeting, University President 
Father Edward Malloy spoke to the council in regards to the formation of the Colloquy, the addition of 

24-hour df spaces, and Father Edward social life on Malloy campus. 
Malloy, Vice-President of Badin Hall as a junior and President as a senior at Notre Dame, spoke at great length about the process of Colloquy and the committees that form it. 
llt:!!IQjifji'U~ifJBI!IW811 
"Every ten years the universi­ty is accredited through an evaluation. In order to prepare Notre Dame we've employed a process to put together a ten­year game plan which is Colloquy," said Malloy. 
Four committees and one general committee, made up of mostly students and staff, look at aspects of the college that need refinement and develop reports on how to improve these aspects. 
"The first committee looks at curriculum and debates issues such as credit hours, making a core curriculum for all stu­dents, -and a four-course sched­ule as opposed to five," Malloy said. 
The second committee deals with library and information systems. 
"One thing that is clear is that no library in the world can afford to keep up with all the information that is generated," said Malloy. 
The third committee is focused on the graduate infra­structure and the fourth on international education. 
"There has been a great effort to encourage students to go abroad and have students come here," Malloy said. "We have 150 international student programs around the world." 
The last, general committee is the fundraising arm and the building blocks for the next campaign. 
But the main goal of the Colloquy is to make the school more affordable by increasing financial aid for undergraduate and graduate students. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editors Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Applicants for both positions should have a strong interest in journalism, editing skills and a knowledge of page design. Applicants should submit a resume and 1-2 page personal statement to Suzy Fry by 4 p.m. Sunday, February 20, 1994. For additional information, please contact Fry at 631-4542. 

in the Hesburgh Library at pm, reception to follow featured in the 1994 festival: 
•Charles 
Johnson tonight!!! 

•Joy 
Harjo (Thurs. 2/17) 


SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  
4121 S. Michigan  5327 Grape Road  
(U.S. 31 South)  (1/2 Mi. S. of University Park Mall)  
291-9200  277-8121  

Wednesday, February 16, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Murder suspect pleads guilty to Gainsville slayings Korea budges 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Advertising Design Personnel 
Applicants should have a strong interest in graphic design or commercial art; a knowledge of Macintosh graphics soft­ware, including Aldus FreeHand and QuarkXPress, is help­ful but not absolutely required. Applicants should submit a resume and 1-2 page personal statement to Ryan Malayter by 5 p.m. Friday, February 18, 1994. For additional infor­mation, please contact Ryan at 634-2031. 

Come toa 
free 
~~=mm;:m:::;;m;:;mm:;;;m:;:m;;;;:m:;;:;;:m;;: 
Informational Seminar on the 

When: Wednesday, February 16th 5:30pm Find Out About: 
*The Structure of the LSATWhere: 
Kaplan Educational Center *Test Taking_ Strategies 
1717 East South Bend Ave. *Law School Admission Process *Sample LSAT Questions 
In addition, take a FREE DIAGNOSTIC EXAM and receive a computerized analysis of your results. 
~r mo~ informmon or to ~i~n u~ tall 
272-4135 
The Computer Applications Honor Society Presents 
Coopers & Lybrand 
Computer. Assurance Services 
February 1o, 1'194 Tonight Room 222 Hesburgh Library near computer lab 7-Rpm Internship and full time opportunities will be discussed. Come and learn more about a career with Coopers & Lybrand. 
All Are Welcome!!! 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Photo Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor . Sports Photo Editor Accent Photo Editor 
Please submit a two-page personal statement to Scott Mendenhall by 5:00p.m., Friday, February 18. For more information contact Scott at 631-5323 
on nuclear 
. .
Inspections 
By GEORGE JAHN 
Associated Press 
VIENNA 
Bowing to increasing interna­
tional pressure, North Korea 
agreed Tuesday to allow out­
side inspections of its declared 
nuclear program under condi­
tions set by a U.N. watchdog 
agency. 
But the deal did not cover 
two sites that Western intelli­
gence agencies suspect are 
doing nuclear work, and 
inspectors cautioned that 
meant they could not settle the 
debate about whether North 
Korea is developing atomic 
weapons. Negotiations on that 
issue have made no headway. 
The hard-line Communist 
regime in Pyongyang contends 
its nuclear program is devoted 
to peaceful uses of atomic 
power. But suspicions about 
North Korea's refusal to allow 
inspections have increased ten­
sions with South Korea and 
raised fears of a military con­
frontation. 
South Korea applauded on 
Wednesday the North's budg­
ing on inspections. 
"The government whole­
heartedly welcomes North Ko­
rea's agreement to inspec­
tions," Choo Don-shik, chief 
presidential spokesman, said in 
Seoul. 
The inspection agreement 
was announced by the Interna­
tional Atomic Energy Agency a 
week before its board of gover­
nors was expected to advise 
the U.N. Security Council to 
invoke sanctions on North 
Korea. 
Hans Meyer, spokesman for the Vienna-based U.N. agency, said North Korea's agreement came "out of the blue," after months of little progress in talks over terms for the inspec­tions. 
North Korea had argued only it should determine when and how inspections be conducted at the seven sites it has identi­fied as part of its nuclear pro­gram. The U.N. agency has al­ways made those decisions for inspections in other nations. 
"This appears to be a step in the right direction," White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said, adding: "We hope that North Korea follows through on it." 

The Clinton administration, which conducted much of the negotiations with North Korea, urged quick inspections and a system to ensure the· North Ko­reans do not secretly divert fis­sionable nuclear material to weapons work. 
"It is a necessary step for the agency to be able to reassure the international community that there has been no diver­sion of nuclear material," said Michael McCurry, the State De­partment spokesman. 
He said North Korea also must resume discussions with South Korea about ensuring nuclear weapons are kept off the Korean peninsula before Washington would resume talks on political and economic ties. 
Less formal talks between the United States and North Korea resumed later Tuesday in New York. The Tuesday session last­ed about an hour and further talks were expected for later in the week. 
Meyer said a team of IAEA inspectors would depart "as soon as the next plane goes to North Korea -in the next few days." 
ByRON WORD 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE 
A drifter already serving life in prison entered a surprise plea of guilty Tuesday to the 1990 murders of five college students, saying, "There are some things that you just can't run from." 
Danny Harold Rolling, 39, of Shreveport, La., now faces a sentencing hearing to deter­mine whether he will be sent to the electric chair. 
"These crimes warrant the death penalty," State Attorney Rod Smith said. 
The plea came just as the court was preparing to pick a jury. Starting Wednesday, a jury will be selected to hear the penalty phase of the trial and recommend the sentence for Rolling. But the judge will make the fmal decision. 
Relatives of the victims quiet­ly wept during the plea and while the prosecutor gave a chilling account of each of the crimes, which included one decapitation. 
They later issued a plea for privacy through Police Detec­tive Sadie Darnell. "They need this time to process the infor­mation," she said. 
Rolling's plea covered 11 counts -five of first-degree murder and three each of sex­ual battery and armed bur­glary. 
"Your honor, I have been running from first one thing and then another all my life. Whether from problems at home or with the law, or from myself. But there are some things that you just can't run from . . . this being one of those," Rolling told Circuit Judge Stan Morris. 
Rolling is already serving sev­eral life sentences in Florida State Prison as a career crimi­nal for robberies and burglar­ies. 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 16, 1994 


at the University Park Mall 



1079 SUITS ...................................... values to $650 .............................. $129 to $289 
320 SPORT COATS ....................... values to $295 .............................. $59 to $129 
610 DRESS SHIRTS ... : ................... values to $85 ................................ $19 to $39 
251 SHOES .................................... values to $165 .............................. $34 to $79 
860 TIES ......................................... values to $55 ................................ $14 ea. or 2 for $25 
547 SPORT SHIRTS ...................... values to $89.50 ........................... $19 to $39 
194 SWEATERS ............................. values to $195 .............................. $19 to $89 
451 PANTS ..................................... values to $125 .............................. $19 to $59 
79 TOPCOATS ............................ values to $595 .............................. $149 to $299 
===========LADIES 
219 SUITS & SPORT COATS ....... values to $325 .............................. $99 to $159 
189 SKIRTS .................................... values to $235 .............................. $39 to $99 
278 SWEATERS ............................. values to $165 .............................. $29 to $79 
132 PANTS ..................................... values to $97.50 ........................... $24 to $39 
Special hours: THURSDAY 8 A.M. TO 9 P.M. FRIDAY 8 A.M. TO 9 P.M. SATURDAY 10 A.M. TO 9 P.M. SALE STARTS THURSDAY AT 8 A.M. (CLOSED WEDNESDAY TO PREPARE FOR THE SALE)  
ALL SALES FINAL NO ALTERATIONS  

MANY OTHER SALE ITEMS NOT LISTED 
Cash, check or bank card sales only. Sorry, no Redwood & Ross charges, gift certificates, due bills or layaways. 
·,1 11 
5R 
JteAwooAi ]toss 
FINAL MARKDOWNS HAVE BEEN TAKEN. WE HAVE GATHERED THE FALL AND WINTER MERCHANDISE FROM ALL 17 STORES FOR ONE FINAL CLEARANCE. PRICES HAVE BEEN SLASHED 50% OR MORE! ALL ITEMS ARE BELOW COST! BECAUSE THESE ITEMS ARE FROM BROKEN LOTS, SIZES AND PATTERNS, WE MUST CLEAR THEM REGARDLESS OF LOSS. IF YOU CAN FIND SOMETHING IN YOUR SIZE, WE'LL SEND YOU HOME SAVING A BUNDLE! 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
272-0470 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 16, 1994 page? 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Bwiness Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Sreph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. )ennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra· tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentarfes, leuers and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Noue Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lette" is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Multiculturalism represents open state of mind 
Dear Editor: "people of color." Rather multi­every class, of every religion. 
In regard to Brian cultural is a term that describes The Office of Multicultural Fitzpatrick's recent letter to a state of mind, an attitude that Student Affairs is an office that The Observer ("SYR's in need of is willing to embrace diversity works to foster an appreciation their own multi-cultural office," and encourage individuality. for diversity. It works with stu­The Observer, Feb. 9, 1994), The term multicultural there­dent leaders, residence halls, we, the members of HAO and fore, can be applied to every resident assistant training, etc. LULAC. feel compelled to clear aspect of society such as race, Its door are open to all and it the issues at stake. We feel that gender. religion, financial sta­endeavors to work with all. It Fitzpatrick's letter is unneces­tus, occupation, and more. is, by no means, limited to peo­sary and full of inflammatory Those that see multicultural as ple of color. sarcasm, which defeats the a term representative of only The Multicultural Executive purpose of Christian Guerrero's people of color are grossly mis­Council sponsors the original letter. By way of overt taken. A person who is multi­Multicultural Fall Festival, negative sarcasm, Brian is cultural is not required to eat Fireside Chats, and other attacking multicultural organi­salsa with every meal smoke events on campus. Just re­zations on campus. peace pipes, be involved in the cently, they conducted a 
He is vastly mistaken about NAACP, and have a musical col­Fireside Chat with a guest the goals and purposes of our lection of which twenty percent speaker from an Amish com­multicultural organizations. is composed by people of color. munity. They have brought a HAO and LULAC hope that this A person who is multicultural is blue collar Caucasian worker to letter will serve as an educa­willing to be open to diversity of talk about his experiences in tional experience for all those all sorts, someone who makes a the working world and an HIV who have been misinformed. conscious effort to put one's positive speaker to educate our Guerrero's real message is that personal prejudices behind. community about his experi­he wants to feel included as a Second, the purpose of a mul­ences. They are not solely con­member of the Notre Dame ticultural organization is to cerned with racial/ethnic is­family. Guerrero made no men­encourage the multicultural sues, rather they are fulfilling tion of establishing quotas or an state of mind, a state of mind the purpose of establishing a The majority of the alumni In fact, we only hope that theSYR prejudice awareness class. where acceptance of all people true sense of multiculturalism were older, white males. Once individual who does feel thisFitzpatrick's gross misin­is established so that no one, no within the NO community. 
again, the purpose of multicul­way will some day understandterpretation only shows the in­matter who one is, will feel left Notre Dame's Prejudice tural organizations is to estab­and appreciate the true value of capacity of the reader to under­out or isolated. Its purpose is Reduction Workshops have lish an appreciation of diversity diversification and multicul­stand the true depth and mean­not to separate and segregate been established to encourage so that we do not suppress peo­turalism. This new found ap­ing of the article as it intended people for the purpose of di­people to break the cycle of ig­ple from being true to them­preciation to consider peopleto represent. versity. Its purpose is not to norance set forth by stereotypes selves. for who they are may actuallyWhile to discuss the details of make Caucasians inferior to in society. It is not, however, It's important to remember, create a heart understandingthe SYR would only be redun­Afro-Americans, Latinos, limited exclusively to people of regardless of Fitzpatrick's latest enough to appreciate all thosedant and circumstantial, we Asians, or other people of color. color. People of all back­responses or actions, that who really do have a life ­would like to address the more Its purpose is not to establish grounds, rich or poor, male or acceptance of all people of color even when it is different fromserious topics fundamental to quotas of diverse music for ev­female, religious or not, gather (white, black, brown, yellow, or our own.
the purposes of multicultural eryone. Its purpose is to be in­to discuss how we can prevent red) and all people of everyorganizations and ethnic clubs clusive and not exclusive. prejudice by recognizing and walk of life is vital to the NO DAVID SULLIVAN on campus. Perhaps we can HAO and LULAC stand for the celebrating diversity. 
community, where the spirit of JOSE CONTRERAS clarify. even l_lducate others same purposes as do other eth­In a recent seminar con­
love and family must make FELICIA GALLEGOS 
about multiculturalism and its nic clubs on campus. Our con­ducted by this organization, 
great strides if it intends to MARIA GONZALEZ 
necessary role in organizations stitutional bylaws exclude no twenty-five members of the grow. Different people reflect ANTONIO GRANADOand the NO community. one. Our clubs were established alumni board of directors as different ways of life and differ­EDITH RIZOFirst. the term "multicultural" for the purpose of educating well as forty other students 
ent modes of thinking. MANUEL ZAMARRIPA 
is not reflective of the color of others about our cultures. We participated in the event. They 
However. this does not mean Representatives of Notre Dame LUlAC 
skin nor must it be used as a encourage participation from all reported that it was a posi­that the only way one person andHAOdescriptive term exclusively for everyone, of every culture, of tive and rewarding experience. 
feels is better than the other. 


OKAY, MAYE313 
R&A&J.N!W[) I HAV!7HAIJA 
FAUINGaJT. I'M 5TIU.HIS 5PIR17lJAi 
DID YOU KNOW THE. PRES!P&NT 
CNC& 9JMM0N£[) M/7 TO CAMP 
OAV/0~ H&REVEAl&fJ 70M/3HIS VISION FOP.. 7H8 IRANIAN !NIT/A­TIV&, ANOTHffla!& 607OOWNON 
TH8 FOR/3ST FtaJI< AND PPAYW. 
IIIt's far easier to forgive an enemy after you've got even with him." 
-Olin Miller 

page 8 Wednesday, February 16, 1994
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR · 
Judge music by personal taste, not by labels or popularity 
Dear Editor: 
It was a bit refreshing to read Dave McMahon's letter, "Purpose of musicians should never be to 'make money'" (The Observer, Feb. 11, 1994). It kind of told me that I'm not the only one who gets pissed off when a top-forty station plays a Nirvana or Pearl Jam song. When I heard the 10,000 Maniacs on a top-forty station for the first time I nearly crushed my stereo. 
I was forced to deal with the painful question, "Is 'alterna­tive' music nothing more than closet-mainstream?" I won­dered if the Maniacs sold out. Their songs had become more radio-friendly and Natalie Merchant did polish her look. I thought, "Did the Maniacs con­form to fit in a society they curse in their music?" I've re­ally thought about this a lot and I think I've come up with an ac­ceptable conclusion. Sure, maybe they have refined their image but Natalie's passionate voice and powerful lyrics will never change. You can replace a look but you can never replace a soul. 
Playing a 10,000 Maniacs or a Pearl Jam tune on a pop-radio 
'playing a 10,000 
Maniacs or a Pearl Jam tune on a pop-radio station is like hanging a Picasso on the restroom wall.' 
station is like hanging a Picasso on the restroom wall. I'm sorry if this may offend some people but the average top-forty lis­tener fails to comprehend the artistry and depth of a Pearl Jam song. And when I say Pearl Jam, I am speaking for the vast category of what American radio listeners know as "alter­native" music. Since I men­tioned the banal "alternative" term, I guess I have to clarify what I mean by alternative. 
For the purposes of catego­rization, different genres of music are given certain labels. I guess they serve their purpose well. Labels do make it easy to find what I want at a record store. But for some there is a deeper side to the "alternative" label. To simplify it, some peo­ple have embraced the term "alternative" as a label for their lifestyle. A label of teenage angst; a label depicting the "I don't give a 'f--' attitude; a Ia­bel of "us vs. them." 
Of course, those who embrace this "alternative" mentality are criticized as hypocrites for a number of obvious reasons. However, when one embraces the "alternative" category, she/he does not necessarily have to dress in black, avoid red meat and smoke dope. They simply relate to or connect with the music categorized as "alter­native." A category of music which for some, speaks to and serves as a voice for those who criticize the norms of our su­perficial society. 
For the sake of categoriza­tion, I will refer to this genre of music as "alternative" in the true sense of the word: music you do not normally hear on a top-40 radio station. At this point, some of you are probably thinking: "...what's the big deal? it's just music." Well, this type of sentiment is typical of top-forty listeners. 
Real music (not "Whoomp there it is!") connects with dif­ferent people in different ways. In the sixties, the likes of Joni Mitchell and Jimi Hendrix spoke to and for a generation lost in a dramatically changing America. Presently, rap speaks to and for the inner-city youth. So who does "alternative" music speak to? According to record sales it speaks to a lot of people, young and old. I guess the secret is in who truly listens and understands. While many people listen just to keep up with the latest trends, some appreciate it for what it truly is: art. 

So what makes Pavement and 
' However, when one embraces the "alternative" she/he does not necessarily have to dress in black, avoid red meat and smoke dope.' 

the Afghan Whigs art? Why do I not recognize pop "music" as real music? What do I mean by real music? I guess one could write for hours attempting to define "real" music. I know nothing of musical theory, op­eras, and symphonies. In fact, I've never played a musical in­strument in my life. In other words, I'm in no position to de­fine real music. 
However, this is the opinion page so I guess I can offer my feeble opinion on what real mu­sic is all about. Real music is playing your own music. Not singing along with some elec­tronic synthesizer but actually playing the piano. Not singing some catchy love song but singing songs you wrote your­self in a time of despair or hap­piness. 
Someone once said: "music should be a discovery of self, a journey full of imagery and pas­sion." The passion screaming from Vedder's voice; the pain calling from Merchant's lyrics; Hendrix's penetrating guitar riffs -that's real music. 
ALEX AGUIRRE Sophomore Alumni Hall 

Malloy handles issues appropriately Students' volunteer 
Dear Editor: University. cosm of the entire homosexual 
tutoring program noticed
I would like to respond to the I would like to applaud rights movement, that being a open letter to Father Malloy Malloy for opening the campus special interest group with vast 
Dear Editor: We on the Upward Bound
from a group describing them­to the AIDS Quilt project. funding trying to extol it's Each semester Notre Dame's staff thank the students ofselves as "The Graduate Although I don't agree with this cause to the masses, much like Upward Bound Project offers a Notre Dame and Saint Mary'sStudent Council" on Feb. 14, approval, it does represent a the N .R.A. and pro-abortion tutoring program on campus to who are helping to make our1994. This "graduate student man willing to cooperate and proponents etc. 
eighty local high school stu­spring semester tutoring pro­council" is not representative of open to all views. The gay-les­By gaining some foothold on dents. The program gives par­gram a success. In addition,myself or my opinions as a bian ensemble on campus will campus, homosexual rights ad­ticipants an opportunity to im­we thank the departments of
graduate student here at the say the Quilt represents a vocates can use the fact that 
prove their academic and per­sociology and education on theUniversity of Notre Dame. health issue for all people, that Notre Dame recognized the sonal skills within a university two respective campuses forI would like to commend it is a "people" event and not a "Quilt" as a building block for environment. the assignment of interns to theMalloy for giving special inter­homosexual advocacy gala, but other events and other places. 
Despite the efforts of our ad­project. Finally, we thank est groups such as homosexual­I must differ. Imagine if this could possibly ministrative staff, the tutoring Assistant Dean AI Neiman inrights and pro-choice advocates If the goal of the "Quilt" is for progress into special rights for program cannot operate with­the Core Course office· of Artsthe ability to voice their opin­increased awareness of a such a group. Remember, we out the support of the students, and Letters as well as thoseions and thoughts on campus. health issue as the supporters are not talking about a race, faculty and staff of Notre Dame faculty members who wereThis is being done through the say then why not bring Dr. C. creed, religion or a culture and Saint Mary's. kind enough to share informa­print and event media of the Everett Koop, an outspoken since the practice of homosex­This semester the response to tion about our program withUniversity regardless of their crusader for AIDS awareness, uality does not meet any of our call for volunteers has been their students. 
subject matter or message and to campus? Why not? Because those definitions. 
impressive. More than forty DORINE BLAKE-SMITH no matter how they contradict the presence of the Quilt to By allowing controversial is­students are now offering their Director or oppose the basis for this campus represents a micro-sues to be openly discussed and 
time and effort to assist JOSE AREVALO 
given ability to act on them on 
Upward Bound in meeting the Senior Counselor 
campus, although not officially 
needs of our participants. STEVEN CLOTZMAN 
recognized or approved, Malloy 
These are students of various Academic Counselor 
is providing an open and dy­
disciplines, undergraduates GIZSEL O'NEAL 
namic University for its stu­
and graduates, all of whom Office Manager 
dents but in actuality he doesn't 
have expressed a common in­MARTIN SOMMERVILLE have to. 
terest in "making a difference." Counselor
The picture is clear. This is a political issue. Notre Dame is a Catholic institution. Homosexuality and the practice of it is against Catholic teach­ings and everything the Church represents such as family, pro­creation and Christianity. What part didn't you understand? 
JAMES LUCOT 
f Graduate Student in Business 
r 
O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences 
f 
t 


--------~---..._..__________~---~~------~--­
8aint ears 
Mary's 


Helen Hayes, the First Lady of the American Theater, delivers Portia's lines from ''The Merchant of Venice" and addresses the student body during the laying of the cornerstone for 
O'Laughlin Auditorium. Hayes was the first to deliver theatrical lines on the partially constructed auditorium stage. 
Fine arts and student rebellion find a home at Saint Mary's 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Editor 
F
or more than 100 years Saint Mary's had always been a place of innovation in the fine and liberal arts, but in the 1950's, the arts would find a home. 
With struggle, sacrifice and much hope, the College built a center to showcase the rich works of Saint Mary's students and welcome the talents of the world. 
Since the 1940's classes had been speculated which would be the first to graduate from the mythical audi­torium that had been spoken about for years. 
Saint Angela's Hall had been serving a duel purpose as gymnasium and auditorium since it was built in 1891, but many knew that the hall could not welcome or display the talents that College President Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff was hoping to attract. 
On Easter Sunday 1952, the dream would begin to take shape. 
Wolff met with Superior General Mother Rose Elizabeth Havican at Le Mans Hall. She asked Havican about a music hall and was surprised to hear her superior's answer: '"Build your fine arts center,"' WolfT wrote as the words of Havican in her autobiogra­phy "My First Seventy Years." 
A large portion of the building fund was secured from the estate of Sister Francis Jerome O'Laughlin. 
As College Vice President and Professor of Greek and Latin, O'Laughlin had shared in the dream of an audi­torium and center for the fine arts. 
In her will O'Laughlin left her share of the family inheritance, almost an half million dollars, for the pur­pose of building such a center. 

architect from Naess and Murphy met with 
ongregation Superiors within days of the 
ecision to build. They were authorized to begin plans for a $1 million fine arts building and auditorium. 
But the plan would not proceed smoothly. In 1953 fire caused by spontaneous combustion broke out in a science laboratory in Holy Cross Hall during Easter Break. 
The fire was contained and the damage slight, but the Board of Lay Trustees ordered that a structure separate from the living quarters be built immediately. 
The dream of a fine arts center was put on hold. 
Architect Tom Mulig put down his plans for the fine arts center and began plans for an adequate science hall. 
Opening its doors during second semester of the 1953-54 school year, the Science Hall cost the College more than a half million dollars. 
Plans for the fine arts center were finally completed in July 1954. The College received the go-ahead to build in December and on Feb. 26. 1955, ground was broken during a downpour. 
"Our auditorium was moving from myth to mud.. .our building, planted in the rain had flourished and borne rich fruit," Wolff wrote in "My First Seventy Years." 
O
n Nov. 12, 1955, the cornerstone was laid for O'Laughlin Auditorium part of the Moreau Fine Arts Center. Sealed in the cornerstone were works of members of the Saint Mary's community including issues of Chimes, the student literary maga­zine and Static, the student newspaper, Marion McCandless' "Family Portraits" and Wolffs "American Twelfth Night and Other Poems," among others. 
First Lady of the American Theater Helen Hayes delivered the first theatrical lines from the partially constructed stage at the laying of the cornerstone cer­emony. 
The Class of 1956 was the first to graduate from O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The College also conferred its first honorary degrees during the commencement. Among the recipients were Hayes, Maria Augusta Von Trapp, singer and subject of the "Sound of Music" and John O'Laughlin, who watched the fine arts center of his sister's dreams become a reality. 
The departments of music, art and drama were finally able to move from their cramped spaces within Holy Cross and Le Mans and move into their new quar­ters that included three floors of studios, classrooms, galleries and a Little Theater. 
With a home to house them, artists, muscians, actors and great thinkers graced the galleries and stages of O'Laughlin and Moreau. 
The NBC Opera Company of New York held its open­ing performance with "The Marriage of Figaro" and "Madame Butterfly" in 1956. 
The Center also become home to the Ruth Page Chicago Opera Ballet, the South Bend Symphony 

Photo courtesy of Saini Mary's Archives A student production of "Christmans in the Marketplace" was staged in Dec. 1962 on the stage of O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Orchestra, the South Bend Civic Music association and countless others who graced its gallery with paintings and sculpture, its stages with talents and provoked the thoughts of students and teachers alike. 
With a home for the fine· arts completed, Wolff sought to find a new way to integrate what she termed the greatest art and science of them all-theology­into the curriculum in a more meaningful way. 
"Since Theology is the queen of the sciences she makes it the core, the central and integrating subject in the curriculum," WolfT wrote in "My First Seventy Years." "The student's entire experience becomes sig­nificant in terms of relation to God." 
The way she sought to find this balance was through the Christian Culture program later renamed Humanistic Studies. 
U
nder the direction of Professor Bruno Schlesinger, the program founded in 1956 on the principles of English scholar and author Christopher Dawson was the first of its kind in the 
see FINE ARTS/ page 2 

page2 The Observer • 150 YEAQ6 Of 6AINT MAQY'6 Wednesday, February 16, 1994 
A look back 
at the people, places and policies of Saint Mary's College 
Compiled by Jennifer Habrych 
The debating team, named the Moreau Quartet, were ranked second out of 47 teams nationally in 1959 after beating Army. 
South Bend Mayor Edward Voorde named Nov. 13 to Dec 13, 1959 Saint Mary's Month. This cited Saint Mary's as a good neighbor for the past 114 years. It also recognized the intellectual and social contribu­tions of the College to the com­munity. 
A benefit baseball game between the Notre Dame Sweat Sox and Saint Mary's No Sox was first played on Saint Mary's campus in 1953. 
Despite Notre Dame's nation­al recognition in a variety of sports, Saint Mary's won the game 5 to 4. The $104.25 earned went to aid campus international students. 
Marian Anderson sang in O'Laughlin Auditorium on Feb. 14, 1957. 
The Alumnae Association pre­sented the Distinguished Alumna Award for the first time in June 1966. 

island where they crowned Mary. May Day festivities usually followed the event. The College celebrated May Day from its earliest times until the mid-1960's. 
Chimes, the student literary magazine, the Courier, the College's magazine, Static, the student newspaper,"Family Portraits," by Marion McCandless, "This is Mother Pauline," by Sister Francis Jerome O'Laughlin, and "American Twelfth Night," by Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff. 
The Home Economics major was phased out at the College for financial reasons. The department closed to new members in 1963, and in 1965 the last students to graduate with a degree in Home Economics graduated from the College. 
A Social Center, under the foyer of O'Laughlin Auditorium formally opened on Nov. 26, 1962. The center was equiped with air-conditioning, a televi­sion lounge, vending area, out­door patio and a lounge. It was used by faculty and students for relaxing and enertaining. 
The Mother Pauline Essay Contest began in 1964. The essays highlighted the history and tradition of the College as a way of keeping students in touch with the sisters and the history of their school. 
In 1956 Saint Mary's won the Saint Genesius medal with the production of Christopher Fry's "The Boy with a Cart," placing first among Catholic Colleges and Catholic Theatre groups of Indiana in the state competition for the best production in a one-act play festival. 
Phil Donahue, a student at Notre Dame and later host of "The Phil Donahue Show," por­trayed Cuthman in "The Boy with a Cart," and was awarded the medal for the best actor in the tournament. 
Christopher Dawson, distin­guished British Scholar, opened the third annual Christian Culture Symposium held at Saint Mary's, April 29 to 30, 1960. 
In the fall semester of 1960, seven Saint Mary's seniors set a precedent by being the first of their sex to take an undergrad­uate course at Notre Dame. They were members of the class in philosophy of literature. 
Helen Hayes, the First Lady of American Theater, played in and directed the student pro­duction of Thornton Wilder's "Skin of Our Teeth" in May 1960. 
Among the items sealed in the cornerstone of O'Laughlin Auditiorium were issues of 
Fine arts 
continued fro~ page I 
United States. 
In a lecture sponsored by the Christian Culture program in 1960, Dawson affirmed his principles that education must be reoriented in a way that is more significant for Western culture by "developing a keen sense of the historic reality of Christianity as a living force which has entered into lives and society and changed them." 
W 
ile affirming the place of the rts and theology at the College, the administration also sought ways to prevent the shared history and relationship with Notre Dame from becoming casual. 
Under the leadership of University Presidents Father John Cavanaugh II and Father Theodore Hesburgh the rela­tionship between the two schools grew stronger on all .levels. 
Wolff received an honorary Doctor of Letters degree from the University and was a special guest of Hesburgh in Feb. 1960 to honor Vice President Richard Nixon as Citizen of the Year and to greet President Dwight Eisenhower later in that same year. 
Students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's forged both social and academic relationships with one another. Through conferences, debate, dramas, dances, sports days and carnivals the relationships between the students strengthened just as those of the admin-
THE FORMATIVE YEARS: 1951-1985 
istrations had. In 1961, Wolff resigned from the Presidency. 
D
uring her 27 years of service Wolff bolstered the staggering enrollment from almost 300 stu­dents to more than 1,100. She reformed the curriculum, forged avenues for women by opening the School of Sacred Theology and brought a renaissance to the College. 
Wolff had dedicated her life to the for­mation of her students and in doing so, she had attracted the attentio~ of people world-wide. But even at a dinner in her honor, Wolff refused to claim that Saint Mary's success was because of her lead­ership alone. 
"The essence of our College is not its buildings, its endowment fund, its enrollment or even its faculty, the essence is the teaching of truth," she said in a speech at the dinner. 
Appointed as the College's fourth President in the summer of 1961, Sister Maria Renata Daily found herself in a difficult position. 
Daily was left not only to fill the shoes of powerful leader who was known and respected world-wide, but she was left with a College emerging from its renais­sance into a period of turbulent change and rebellion. 
In wake of Vatican Council II (1962 to 1964) which changed the Church and social movements across campuses nationwide, Daily faced a discontented campus. 
Although the levels of demonstration and violence of other campuses was never felt on the Saint Mary's campus, the questioning of authority left the President who opposed rebellion to rule in a difficult era. 
Daily's concerns during her tenure were primarily practical ones. 
With crowding in the residence halls and the dining room in Le Mans, Daily set on two building ventures­McCandless Hall, to house the overflow of students now occupying the halls and the Dining Hall, which would bring an end to the formal dining tradition. 
With social concerns highlighting many of the movements of the 1960's, missionary and social service became more integral at Saint Mary's. Students set out on missions both home and abroad. 

ong with students from Notre 
Dame, Saint Mary's students 
rganized the Council of International Lay Apostolalte (CILA). Their mission was "the same as Christ's and it is one thoroughly involved in the world." 
Students also founded local service programs where they gave back through tutoring, hospital work and beautification projects to the community that they had been a part of for so long. 
Taking initiatives in service, students also began to utilize the student govern­ment that had been forced on them reluctantly decades before. 
Students called for a tri-council of administrators, faculty and students to direct the future of the College: "We love Saint Mary's and want to make her more lovable," Student Council repre­
sentatives said at a meeting. The balance between devotion and criticism soon became a concern. 
S
oon 8:30 p.m. curfews, a limit on hours spent off-campus and uni­forms became a thing of the past. Those who attended students rules com­mittee meetings said that they were not whining sessions, but rather cooperative listening and discussion sessions between adults. 
As campuses across the nation began to feel the brunt of heightened students protests, Saint Mary's students felt as if their voices were being heard and acknowledged. 
With a new found voice, Saint Mary's students embarked upon a new era of questioning and cooperation with those in authority. But, the next decade would provide perhaps the toughest struggle that Saint Mary's would face-one where a merger and the possibility of the loss of identity loomed as a distinct reality. 
Editor's Note: 
This section is the fourth ofsix special sec­tions commemorating Saint Mary's College and its !50-year tradition. 
Special thanks are given to Sister &saleen Dunleavy and Sister Monica Wagner of College Archives. 
EDITOR: Jennifer Habrych 
PRODUCTION: Lynn Bauwens 
GRAPHICS: Chris Weirup 
1953-Destructive fire in Holy 1955-Groundbreaking for 1956-First honorary degrees Cross hall biology laboratory Moreau Fine Arts Center and conferred by the College O'Laughlin Auditorium 
1951 
1956-0'Laughlin Auditor­1952-First meeting of the 1954-Groundbreaking ium formally opened 
newly mganized Lay Advisory for the first Science Hall Board ofSaint Mary's 

~----~------,------------------------~~-~----~--------~~.---~~----------~----------~--------------~~--------~---------­
Wednesday, February 16, 1994 The Observer •150 YEAQ<£> Of <£>AINT ML\QY'<£> page 3 
Nursing department's past base for the present 

treat real patients. 
By MARA DIVIS Assistant Accent Editor 
In 1941, when Congress set aside funds to meet the war­induced nurse shortage, Saint Mary's six-year-old nursing department was one of the first chosen for improvement. 
This was one of the largest breakthroughs in the first half of the department's history. The department began in 1935, when Sister Maria Amadeo Heupel, -the head of the Nurses Association of Indiana, started a Bachelor of Science program and a second program to sup­plement graduates of the nurs­ing program. 
This came about 30 years after nursing began to be rec­ognized as a professional field. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross were nursing pioneers during the Civil War, and it was this background that prompted the development of nursing as an academic department later in the 20th century. 
'The Civil War was the impe­tus for nursing," said Assistant Professor of Nursing Barbra Wall. 
"The Sisters played a major role and earned respect from both Catholics and non-Catholics . " 
The United States soldiers needed caregivers throughout the war, and many women stepped into positions of clean­ing, feeding, personal care and basic care such as cooking and giving medication. 
The Catholic Church has -a strong foundation in service and caregiving. Catholic sisters were skilled in spiritual care, in addition to basic medical care. 
"Catholic sisters in general were leading forces," she said. "Others went on to fame while they went back to the convent. But their work was just as important." 
Following the war, the nurs­ing profession grew, and the sisters began to pioneer the field of teaching nursing, set­ting up eight of their own nurs­ing schools. 
Although the Congregation started out a teaching order, the wave of nursing schools brought them new respect as a caregiving order, Wall said. 
"Many sisters joined the Holy Cross Congregation so they could be nurses." she said. 
The move to add a nursing program to the curriculum came when nursing, tradition­ally a professional field, was unheard of at a Catholic liberal arts college even though theCongregation had a long commitment to the profession. 
"Nursing on the collegiate level exists still in its infancy." according to a 1935 written history of the department. "A program such as nursing dif­fers from the other depart­ments of a college quite radi­cally because of the expertise, special instructors and clinical work involved." 
Saint Mary's officially estab­lished the program in 1936 and enrolled one student. 
Despite the field's profession­al tradition, the College contin­ued to prove that its strong lib­eral arts curriculum would pro­vide a solid foundation for its professional graduates, accord­ing to an article in the 193 5 edition of Holy Cross Courier. 
"It (the first nursing curricu­lum) offers the student a broad cultural background, a thor­ough correlation of theory with clinical experience," the article said. "And an excellent founda­tion upon which she may devel­op both personally and profes­sionally." 
Students at this time of Christian tradition wore caps and pins, symbolizing the tradi­tion of nursing, said JoAnn Widerquist, current department chair. 
"Caps used to symbolize that students had passed a proba­tionary period" she said. "There was a strong tie to Christianity. We use them today to tie to the (Catholic) mission of the College." 
Despite the department's strong beginning, financial trouble and the educational emphasis more on the liberal arts rather than professional training caused the College to close it in 1962. 
Student protest and the resurgence in nursing nation­wide led a committee to evalu­ate the need for a department at Saint Mary's in the early 1970's, according to a letter from the committee appointed by Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh, and College President Sister Alma Peter. 
"An enormous national need exists for personnel in the fields of nursing and the allied health programs, and Saint Mary's could help fill the gap," the let­ter read. 
Such a program would also provide a significant area of service for the Sisters of the Holy Cross-as instructors in the program and through their several hospitals. 
In Feb. 1972 the Board of Trustees, citing a positive response to the proposed nurs­ing program, asked the admin­istration to take official action and apply for federal funds, according to a letter from Mother Olivette Whalen, Chair of the Board of Trustees, to Peter. 
One year later, the Indiana State Board of Nurses' Registration and Nursing Education approved Saint Mary' s application to establish a Department of Nursing at the baccalaureate level, making the department a reality, according to a Feb. 1973, press release from the Office of Public Relations. 
Although the college consid­ered primarily its liberal arts philosophy when deciding to re-establish the program, the changing work environment also prompted them to recon­sider the nursing department in the early 1970s, according to Widerquist. 
In Dec. 1979, the National League for Nursing granted ini­tial accreditation to Saint Mary's. This high-honor was granted to only 5 to 6 percent of the programs up for review each year. 
Despite the fact that the nurs­ing program might have been discarded because it was too professional and did not emphasize the liberal arts enough, this basis is what sets Saint Mary' s program apart today, Widerquist said. 
"(The program) uses a holis­tic approach," she said. "We view the physical and emotion­al aspects of a patient, empha­sizing ethical aspects as well as spiritual aspects." 

_... 

Christian Culture program first of its kind in U.S. 
By MARY GOOD 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
A
s the Saint Mary's community retraces the customs, contribu­tions and curricula of their stu­dents over the past 150 years, the Humanistic Studies, formally the Christian Culture department, is taking this endeavor a few steps deeper. 
The Christian Culture department was established at Saint Mary's in 1956 through the influence of English Scholar and Visiting Professor Christopher Dawson, History Professor Bruno Schlesinger and College President Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff. The pro­gram was put into action with an endowment from the Lilly Foundation. 
Dawson, Schlesinger and Wolff found it important to create a program with a true liberal arts approach. The idea that served as the foundation for the program was Christian education as opposed to Catholic indoctrination. 
"There is one Catholic college which has attempted to realize fully the insights of Professor Dawson...Saint Mary's College is a small girls' college which since 1956 has taken on the very man-like job of revolutionizing the field of liberal arts studies," a report on the department read. "An ambitious pro­gram was established which acquaints the students with the dynamic and for­mative role Christianity has exercised in the development of our intellectual and cultural traditions." 
The department was still intended to help students gain a general under­standing of the historical and philosoph­ical as well as the theological influences of the Christian Church. 
Unique to a Catholic college, the Christian Culture department always recognized the political, intellectual and historical aspects of the Christianity in addition to its supernatural element. 
The program strives, through its cur­riculum, which remains extremely simi­lar today to what it was 38 years ago, to revitalize the study of the present by looking back and researching the influ­ence of our Christian past,current Humanistic Studies chair Gail Mandell explained. 
Christian Culture is not, however a solely theology based study. It focuses also on an examination of classical liter­ature, art and philosophy as well. 
The program was set up in such a way that its students survey Christian cul­ture chronologically. 
"We can best understand the modern world if we look at the history and the influence of the Christian Church," Mandell said. 
The program from its inception allowed students the opportunity to major in a second field of study while enrolled in the Christian Culture pro­gram which was originally open to only juniors and seniors. 
Following graduation, students in the program went into all fields including education, public relations and even banking, as well as graduate, law and medical schools. 
, 



1960-Lumen Christi Award given to a graduating senior for first time 1961-Sister Maria Renata appointed President of Saint Mary's 
1964--Dedication ofDining Hall and McCandless Hall 
1964--Dearh of Sister 
Madeleva Wolff, third 
President ofrhe College 

1965-Sister Mary Grace appointed President 
1965 

1965-The first co-exchange between ND and Saint Mary's began wirh f.ill semester classes 

page4 
The Observer •150 YEAQ~ Of ~AINT Mi\QY'~ Wednesday, February 16, 1994 
150 Years of 0ports 


Photos courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives 

(clockwise starting bottom right) Students take part in a field hock­ey game in 1934. Field hockey was the first intercollegiate sport in which Saint Mary's students took part. (bottom left) Aeorbic and gymnastic exercise were part of the curriculum in a 1901 physical education class held in Saint Angela's Hall, the College's gymnasi­um. (top left) Archery was one of the College's first sports and its second intercollegiate sport. (top right) A student clears a hurdle during one of the College's Sports Spree Day. 

-
• 
By ELIZABETH REGAN Saint Mary's News Editor 
S
aint Mary's women have been participating in athletics for as long as the school has 
been in existence. 
"Every incentive in the shape of swings, calis­thenics, croquet, archery and other games are offered to induce sufficient exercise in the open air to preserve and promote a vigorous physique," reads the 18-67-68 Saint Mary's Catalogue. 
The women of the past participated in field hockey, tennis, outdoor games, canoeing, gymnas­tics, hiking, skating, basketball, dancing, track and baseball. 
Equestrian shows were also very popular in the early days of Saint Mary's. Originally stables and paddocks were located on the campus. Later, they were removed. However riders continued to par­ticipate by using local stables in South Bend. 
Sports Spree Day was popular at the turn of the century. The day, in June, began with the entrance of the Sports Queen, who officialized the day and ordered the commencement of the games. 
"Tennis, baseball , golf, archery and canoeing were the favorite events," read the June 1935 edi­tion of Static, the student produced newspaper. 
A picnic was usually held on Lake Marian's island in the evening and was followed by an awards ceremony., bonfire and singing. 
Following in the tradition of Indiana, basketball was one of the most popular sporting events at Saint Mary's. 
Although in the early years, basketball players were unable to compete against teams from other schools, interclass tounaments were great way to enhance class unity. 
"If we will not play basketball from the sheer love of the game, nor from desire for bodily per­fection, then we should play from a sense of duty toward our class," the December 1926 edition of Static reads. 
• All events were conducted under the rules laid out by the Athletic Association. Each season the 

Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives 
Long one of Indiana's favorite sports, interclass bas­ketball tournaments were a favorite at Saint Mary's as well. 
association presented numerals to all participants of games, and letters and silver basketballs to the members of the winning teams. 
Saint Mary's began requiring that all students take physical education twice a week in the early 1920's. 
"Recent years have shown the world the fallacy of trying to improve only the intellectual part of woman; we recognize now, more than ever, the need of a healthy body to house a cultured mind," 
the catalogue reads. The administration at that time felt that courses in physical education would be necessary : 
• 
To alleviate mental strain by providing benefi­cial recreation. 

• 
To produce good posture and correct carriage of body. 

• 
To develop grace and skill. 

• 
To maintain and increase health. 

• 
To develop strength and organize vigor. 



• 
To give training in health, knowledge, activities and habits which will last after school life. 

• 
To strengthen will power and to teach alert­ness, quick perception and reaction. 

• 
To cultivate self-control, self-denial and loyalty to team and class mates. 


T
he wide participation and the overall excitement about interclass sports natm:al­ly led to competition with other schools. 
The earliest record of intercollegiate competition took place in 1934, when the field hockey team travelled to Chicago for Play Day Contests where they competed against Lake Forest College, Universtiy of Chicago and Battle Creek College. 
Saint Mary's also competed in the National Archery AssociationTelegraphic Meet in 1943 . 
However, this intercollegiate competition was short lived. It was discontinued and interclass competition resumed again in full swing. 
It was not until the mid-1970's that varsity sports again became a reality at Saint Mary's. Basketball, fencing, field hockey and golf were among the first varsity sports. 
Saint Mary's placed second in the State Basketball tournament in 1976 despite their lack of adequate practice facilities. 
Practices and home games became possible in the fall of 1977 after Angela Athletic Facility was completed. 
The nickname "The Belles" was voted on by the student body in that same year. "The Belles" won by a large margin defeating both "The Saints" and "The Angels." 
ACCE-NT 
Wednesday, February 16, 1994 
e 
page 9 

Under the direction of senior Pete Dillard, the actors never missed a beat. The opening act, three witches ( Cara Conway, Frani McLaughlin and Kathryn O'Donnell) miming, captured intense attention from the audience, as their movements were precise and sharp. 
Deserving mention as well are students Pete McGillicuddy (Duncan and Macdum. Chris Ferrer (Banquo), and Francis Kelly (Malcolm). Other cast members include Tyler Hower, Kevin Kaufman, and Jerry Lavin -all who added to the charisma of the performance. 
Also impressive were the props and cos­tumes of the cast. Evidently self budgeting the production, costume designer Tricia Nolan, a Notre Dame senior, displayed 
.... 

creative and splendid modern Shakespearean styles. 
The production is mesmerizing to say the least. Dillard's plea to use the imagi­nation is certainly unnecessary, seeing as the actors do job for you. 




om an 
By KENYA JOHNSON Accent Editor 
"You will not see Macbeth. Lady Macbeth, Banquo, or any of the others tonight. What you will see are actors playing these roles. These actors are very good, and they want to fool you a little bit, but they need your help. Do not try to disbelieve them -that is an easy task if you work at it. Instead, lend us your imagination and suspend your disbelief. After all. we all live at times in a fantasv world.· 
-Pere Dillard Director 

Suspend your disbelief? This task need not even be asked as one watches the stu­dent production of "Macbeth." 
Performing perhaps one of the convinc­ing productions of the Shakespeare work, 11 communication and theater students stunned an audience as they fulfilled a requirement for COTH 499, an indepen­dent study for communication and theater majors by performing "Macbeth." 
Most spectacular was leading man Macbeth, played by senior Michael Scarsella. A compelling actor, Scarsella could enable even the most insensitive viewer experience his pain and anguish throughout the play. 
Scarsella is impressive as he burdens himself with guilt over the death of Duncan, King of Scotland. In his passion­ate soliloquies and emotional moments, Scarsella emanates his acting talents and ability to soon broaden his skills even fur­ther. 
And by Scarsella's side was a wonder­ful actress, his Lady Macbeth, performed and perfected by senior Megan Thomas. 
Thomas' performance gives a viewer hope that there are still young talent actors/actresses in the world, not con­forming to the slapstick, mediocre acting of our current time. 
With a vibrant voice and dramatic motions, Thomas demonstrates a combi­nation of natural talent and superb teach­ings. 

Above : Michael Scarsella gives a powertul pertormance as Macbeth in the student pro­... duction of "Macbeth". Scarsella is a senior communications major. Right: Scarsella is joined by leading lady Megan Thomas playing lady Macbeth. Both dis­play their significant acting talent as they fullfil! a requirement for an independent study in Communications. 
;ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, February 16, 1994 
Heartwarming HUGS 
!:~~[CARBONE 
Colleen Cahill wanted to do volunteer work involving kids which would simul­taneously teach her more about the medical profession she is considering entering. 
Jen Hager just wanted to help chil­
dr~~th 
found the perfect program in HUGS. 
Helpful Undergraduate Students is a two-year-old program coordinated through the Center for Social Concerns, in which Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students volunteer at Memorial and Saint Joseph's Hospitals once a week. 
For one or two hours each week, the student volunteers do everything from holding, rocking and feeding premature babies to playing with older children who are recuperating in the hospitals' pediatric units. 
There are several purposes to the pro­gram. 
Student volunteers "help to free up the nurses' hands," said Cahill, "allowing them to do other things which they oth­erwise wouldn't have the time to do." 
HUGS volunteers also give the babies some much-needed comfort. 
"(With this program), the babies are not just lying alone in strange beds, sur­rounded by strange machines making noises," added Cahill. 
The babies cared for by HUGS volun­teers are mostly in the intensive care units of the two hospitals, suffering from respiratory complications caused by premature birth. 
The children in the pediatric units usually suffer from pneumonia or a sim­ilar illness. 
Providing comfort to a baby which desperately needs it is one of the rewards for HUGS volunteers. , 
"The thing I like most about (HUGS) is that it helps kids, who really need the most support," said Hager. 
Cahill shares Hager's enthusiasm. "I went once to the hospital and I fell in love with the babies," said Cahill. 
Cahill isn't the only one. According to Kathy Royer, coordinator of student vol­unteer activities for the esc. the pro­gram has grown from 15 students when it was begun last year to a total of 275 volunteers this semester. 
Royer sees several reasons for the explosive popularity of HUGS. 
"Medical schools are asking even more that people get experience in their fields," said Royer, with HUGS providing an enjoyable way for students to get this experience. 
"Also, I think it's real rewarding for the students to see the kids respond to them," added Royer. 
Cahill, a Lewis Hall junior majoring in pre-med and psychology, got involved with HUGS for both of the reasons cited by Royer. 
"I love kids, and I'm interested in 
Student volunteers comfort 
h•1d h • 1
c 1 ren at osplta s 

• Colleen Cahill 
Top: These seven Lew1s Hall girls enjoy volunteering their time to the HUGS pro~ram.Contrary to what some believe, HUGS volunteering is not solely for pre-med maJors. Bott.om: Dejka Steinert is one of many voi~nteers to tt~;HUGS program. Most--of the bab1es cared for by the HUGS volunteers are in the intensive care units. 
becoming a pediatrician," said Cahill, making HUGS a perfect fit for her. 
"The nurses (at the hospitals) are so great. Everyone is so nice, and very accessible," said Cahill. 
"The nurses are more than willing to teach you, so that you learn a lot about diseases and health care, and how a hospital works." 
Cahill added that everything seen and heard is kept confidential within the walls of the hospital. 
Hager, a pre-med major living in Siegfried Hall, says that her major had nothing to do with why she signed up for HUGS. 
Instead, she cited a much simpler rea­son, shared by all of her fellow volun­teers, for why she joined HUGS -she loves kids. 
"Last year, I was looking at volunteer services that dealt with kids," said Hager. "I like HUGS because it helps kids, who are the most vulnerable." 
Hager also wished to clarify a miscon­ception that might be keeping some peo­ple away from the HUGS program -the program is not reserved for pre-med students, but is open to any student. 
Anyone interested can call Kathy Royer at the CSC at 631-7862, Colleen Cahill at 634-4173 or Jen Hager at 634­4831. 
------------~-~~--------~­
Wednesday, February 16, 1994 The Observer • INTERHALL BASKETBALL page 15 
Geoff Caplea. Their lead would then stretch to four before Godin went on
Men's IH 
his tear. Sophomore Kirk Cunningham 
did his best to keep it close in the
continued from page 20 
fourth, but to ·no avail. Ward then hit a three to tie the score at "They were a tough team al­
32. together," said-Cunningham. "Godin 
Cavanaugh took the lead for the first was incredible. Due to him we had to time on a layup by sophomore Conrad play catch-up for most of the fourth James on a nice assist from junior quarter." 


Women's IH 
continued from page 20 
Wild Women of Walsh Hall were not able to set up the press. 
"Our shots were just not falling tonight," added Campbell. "We wanted to press, but there were few chances to do it." 
Fouls also helped Breen-Phillips estab­lish the lead and never look back. Sophomore Sheila Moloney made seven first-quarter free-throws to pace the early attack. Shannon finished with thir­teen points, while sophomore Jessica Ward hit a big three point play making the score 21-12 in the third quarter, giv­ing the Banshees their biggest cushion of the game. 
Jenny Riley tried to keep the game close, hitting a long three-point basket to close the gap to seven, but Walsh could get no closer as Breen-Phillips did a masterful job of clock management. Juniors Colleen Quin and Michelle Drury also played well for Walsh. 
"It was a real rewarding ending to a great season," added Klimek. 
-

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun OLD BOY RUGBY! Attention all graduate students and faculty members. If interested in forming the N.D. Old Boy Rugby Team/ Social Club, please call Jeff at 634-3004 (leave a message). The club will only form if enough are interested, so please don't hesitate to call. WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 CLUB23 Wednesday, February 16th Trash the Craven and Victoria's Real Secret ILOST & FOUND I LOST A FEW MONTHS AGO POSSIBLY IN DEBARTOLO: ALL BLACK NYLON JACKET IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4298 LOST: Long blue winter RICCO coat at LeMan's formal on Sat. FOUND: Long black coat where mine should have been. If you accidentally took my coat please call Mike at x4264. LOST-LONDON FOG TRENCH COAT DURING THE HOLY CROSS SAY AT THE SENIOR BAR. PLEASE CALL X1n2. LOST: U OF I COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE GREY SWEAT­SHIRT AND BURGUNDY SCARF AT HAGGAR OR NOH PLEASE CALL DOMINIC X1166 Lost: black leather ladies right glove call beth 4994 LOST: NDCiass Ring.  Engraved "Duke '95" Lost on Feb. 7 at Campus View or D-6 parking lot. Please contact x1939. Thanks. WANTED ....SPRING BREAK '94•••• Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 11 0% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREE! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­MENT-fisheries. Many earn $2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­$6000+/mo. on fishing vessels. Many employers provide benefits. No exp. necessary! For more info call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584 Anyone going to NJ for break? I need a ride. Will help with gas, tolls, whatever. Call Elaine 2342. RIDE needed for 2 to St. Louis for Spring Break. Call Christian @1226 PLEASE!![!! I need a ride to Cleveland for Spring Break. Wilr pay gas, tolls, etc. Leave Fri. eve? Call Doreen at 4-4624. AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 Help! 4 desperate girls need ride to Long Island or NYC for Spring Break. Will pay gas, tolls, etc. Callx4881 SUMMER JOBS/INTERNSHIPS ­Average earnings $3,500.00. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus tele­phone directories, hires over 250 college students for their summer sales program. Top earnings $5,000.00 -$6,500.00. Gain valu­able experience in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other uni­versity markets. Expense paid train­ ing program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal orient­ed students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Internships may be available. INTERVIEWS ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25TH AT THE CAREER PLANNING AND PLACEMENT,HESBURGH LIBRARY. NEEDED: SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, Poughkeepsie pref. Will help $. Please call Brian or Jason x1130 Needed: A ride to either Columbus, Bowling Green, or Cincinnati on Feb. 25 or 26. Call Carey at x2910. SHOE SENSATION Coming to the Concord Mall. Growing retail shoe company seeks enthusiastic, inde­pendent individuals to work full or part time in retail shoe store. Previous experience a plus. Flexible hours. Excellent benefits package and generous discounts available. Potential of $5 to $6 with sales bonus. Please send resume to: Action Enterprises Inc., 253 America Place, Jeffersonville IN 47130 Ambitious students -Build your own business -Earn a good profit on an attractive new product. Call (800)736-1621 LOVING BABYCARE NEEDED FOR MON. OR WED. MORNINGS. EXP. +OWN TRANSP. REQ'D. 233-6657. DEADHEADS -I need tapes bad. I've got the blanks. Can you come through for me? 273-5817 LFOR RENT 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595 PARTY TIME '94-95 Big 6 bedrm. Safe area. Free maid sevice. Beach V-ball & B.B. courts. Furnished. Washer & dryer. 273-0482 or 234-3831. Beautiful apt-bike to campus Summer+ 94-95 yr  180/mo w/roommates Hickory Village 273-8369 FOR SALE Sale Ford Escort '85, manual, $500 or best offer. 273 4028. NISSAN SENTRA 83 GOOD CON­DITIONS $1450 OR BEST OFFER 80 ML LEAVE MESSAGE 2778598 MACINTOSH CLASSIC II 4/80, 2 MB RAM (EXPANDABLE TO 10). LIKE NEW. $550. 2n-1463. TICKETS 1-W, INDY/ORL/NAPLES, $175 219654722212196548392 Need NC-ND B-Ball Tix Lower Arena. Kevin 288-3408 Chicago Bulls Tix For Sale 2121 vs. Charlotte 2123 vs. Golden State Good Prices, Good Seats Call Will at x 05n RUSH W/ GUEST PRIMUS 3 seats together in lower level of Rosemont Horizon (Mar. 29 @ 7:30) MUST SELLI Steve X2008 PERSONAL ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. Taylor-hi Jamie To the two cute guys who left hearts on our books Friday night in the library: thanks You made our day! -Mandl Is one of you free Feb 26? Meet you major nights for the College of Business are as follows: Marketing 2117-6:00p.m. Management 2/21 -6:00p.m.  Finance 2122 -6:30 p.m. Accounting 2122 -7:30 p.m. All meetings will be in 122 Hayes-Healy College recommends declaration by March 4. Sponsored by Sophomore Class . FORGET ABOUT JOE HAIGH... WHAT ABOUT KEVIN BUCK??!! Selling 1 Phantom ticket for the Sophomore Class JPW trip. Call Gail X3097 SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373 4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Medllegal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 1-800-864-8385. In a hurry ... don't worry. FAX IT! at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center NEW LOWER PRICES! TOP 10 REASONS TO PARTY WITH 4T and SUSAH: 10) Whynot? 9) WE HAVE THE BARITONE SECTION'S VIKING HORNS!!! 8) Because we LIKE when drunk jerks pour. beer over our head 7) WE NEVER THROW-UP! 6) If you don't party with us, you'll make our "bad-hookup" list 5) Some of us can dip! 4) Because we can drink more than you 4) We never break parietals! 3) YOU CAN TRY-BUT YOU CAN'T CUT US OFF! 2) Because we don't party with L.F. 1) WE NEVER GET BUSTED!!i!l I love you, 4T + Susah! Thanks for all the laughs!  Love always, CB Holy Cross Associates. 17 year old volunteer service program span-sored by the Congregation of the Holy Cross. For infonnation contact Jeff Hammes, HCA office 1-5521 or Mary Ann Roemer, Center for Social Concerns 1-7949. HAPPY 21rst BIRTHDAY DREW! -anabel TOP TEN Names for MELLON'S New Dead Ligament: 10. A silla, A silla rueda 9. Grover 8. And you can call it AI 7. Mary's Peppin' Liggy 6. A Buttah Ligament 5. Derrick 4. Stretch 3. Cadaver Ken 2. Mort 1. NIGEL Jim H. likes sloppy kisses Is Tippecanoe really a renovated Bam?? Beak and Schlage, Why does your room smell like dirty underwear? TOP 10 ST. ED'S "1st MAIN MAS­QUERADE" DANCE QUOTES, FEB. 12, 1994: 1O.Chuck, the Afrodeziac's working now! 9. Where's Sample ? 8.Uh, Rog, I'm trying 2 mack here. ?.It's an extremely sensitive CD player. 6.What, no Snoop Dog ? S.Anybody seen Sample ? 4.Rog, the movie's over now, roll the credits. 3.Here, you can wear my boxer shorts-2.Vince, u bella work ! 1. Rog, I'm about 2 smash that camera...  ....  
"  

----~~---~~ -------------~-­
page 16 The Observer • WINTER OLYMPICS Wednesday, February 16, 1994 
Myler second US luger to Team USA battles Slovakia to a tie 
.... 
see medal slide away 
By TONY CZUCZKA 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
A brief brush with an icy wall cost Cammy Myler her chance to fmally snap the. U.S. shutout streak in Olympic luge. 
It happened Tuesday at Turn 13, the same spot on the Hun­derfossen track where Duncan Kennedy crashed and lost his chance at a medal in the men's event. 
Myler had a little problem there on her first run, and stuck out a foot to regain con­trol. 
On the second run, "it was a bigger problem," she said. 
Myler came out of 13 reeling. Her razor-sharp steel blades couldn't hold the line and be­gan to slip, forcing her against the icy left wall of the run. 
More like a brush burn than a collision, but it had the same impact as Kennedy's wipeout 24 hours earlier. 
No medal, one more time. 
"I got a little too much pres­sure on the end of the curve, which kind of spit me out to the left at the exit," Myler said. "I thought my second run was go­ing really well." 
Erin Warren of Sommerville, Mass., added to American mis­ery by crashing near the same spot. 
-
Myler's glitch left her in 11th place, at 1 minute, 38.964 sec­onds, more than a second be­hind the leader, Italy's Gerda Weissensteiner. 
"I defmitely am not really ex­cited with what I did today," Myler said. 
The final two runs are Wednesday, and the only way Myler could crack the top 3 was if eight of the racers ahead of her crashed. 
"Today, I'm disappointed about Cammy," U.S. coach Wolfgang Schaedler said. "She did have consistently strong times in training and she should have been able to do better." 
Myler last month became the first U.S. woman to win a World Cup luge race. Coupled with the world championship of Wendel Suckow last year and the strong World Cup showing this year of Kennedy, it had 
U.S. luge officials looking for their flrst Olympic medals. 
But Myler's fifth place in Al­bertville in 1992, matched by Suckow Monday, remains the best U.S. showing in the Olympics, and when the medals are handed out the American team almost assuredly will be 0-for-6 this year. 
Warren's Olympic race debut was cut short three turns from the end of the first run. She ca­reened off the walls, flipped up­side down and slid face-down with her sled draped across her shoulders. Kennedy saw it all from track side. 
.
-"........._"­
~~....-....""=­
SAir<T MAI'~Y·S COLLEGE 
t\ORfftU CfMT fR 
fOR lttl <tl RT S THIS FRIDAY, FEB. 18. 8P.M., OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
COLUMBIA ARTISTS PRESENTS 
Hungarian Sfc!te Folk Ensembk 
COMPANY OF 70 DANCERS • CHORUS • ORCHESTRA 
ONE SHOW ONLY. SM'S·ND COMMUNITY $8: STUDENTS S6 
llll \!.1~1 .M.\Ri ', (OllHif IJ!PARJ~ij~J Of IJAAUNitAnON. OAHU &rHfAfRf I'Rf'>f~l'> 
QuILTERS ,\DRAt~.\ WJTH MlM 
BY B,i.RilARA DAIM\HfK &Ml~l f ~!WAAII otRKlRJ BY KATif ·~utliV!JI 
JHU~D!Y-5UHDAY, HB. 24-17 
~>M S NO CQM.MU~ffl )4 \!1.1~1 M.\Wt 'l \niOf~f) ;l 
T1ckets Tor all events on sale at the Sa1nt Mary's box oiTICC', located m CYLaughlm ,'\ud1tonum. 9 a.m.-:> :_','"··~-;
~·g·'"
~· ~ ; 
p.m. Monday-Fnday. Visa, MasterCard and -. . 
-. 
~.
D1sower orders by phone dt ; . ­
7 ·. 
., •'' 111\',11 ·.~
219/284-4626. 
Notre Dome Communication and Theatre presents: 
ARaisinintheSun 
by Lorraine Hansbem 
Washington Hall University of Notre Dome Wednesday, February 23-Saturday, February 26, at 8:10 p.m. Sunday, February 27, at 2:30 p.m. 
Tickets: $7 reserved; student and senior discounts ovoiloble Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday Visa/MasterCard orders: 63 1·8 I28 
Directed by guest artist Kym Mo o r e 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
GJOVIK, Norway 
Less than six minutes away from a catastrophic loss that probably would have meant an end to its medal hopes, the U.S. hockey team sprang to life. 
Peter Ciavaglia and John Lil­ley scored 1:36 apart Tuesday night as the United States staged its second straight third­period rally to salvage a 3-3 tie with Slovakia. 
"A loss would have killed us. We had to get at least a point out of this," U.S. captain Peter Laviolette said. "It was a good sign of our character to come back, but we've got to come out sharper. It would be nice ttl come out and get a lead. Once." In their Olympic opener, the Americans needed two late 
goals to rally for a 4-4 tie with lOth-seeded France. 
"We must be something of a high-wire act to people watch­ing our games. It certainly is exciting and hectic," U.S. coach Tim Taylor said. "Youthful en­thusiasm is one of our best weapons and it has to be there at the start of a game. It cannot be called on in reserve at the end." 
For the first time since 1984, the United States has failed to win at least one of its first two games. In '84, the Americans opened with losses to Canada and Czechoslovakia and went on to finish seventh. 
"We have very high expecta­tions," said Ciavaglia, whose team meets Canada (2-0) on Thursday. "I don't think we're happy at all with the results and our overall play." 
Nevertheless, there was a dif­ferent mood after this tie than the first. American players wore smiles and rock music blared out of the locker room. 
"Two ties are a lot better than two losses," said U.S. goalie Garth Snow, who made 30 saves in his Olympic debut. He replaced Mike Dunham, who managed only 10 saves against France. "We had to come through and we did. Slovakia is a good team." 
Added Laviolette: "They are not a France or an Italy. They are one of the best teams in the world." 
The Slovaks are the lowest seeds in the 12-team field only because they had to play in a qualifying. tournament; they hadn't gained their national in­dependence until after last year's World Championships. 


Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is now accepting applications for its next three entering classes. (September 1994, january 1995, April 1995) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
• 
Approx. 2-3 years of college in a a life or health science degree program. 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. Amore competitive G.P.A. is favored. 

• 
Apersonal interest in acareer as aprimary care physician. 


Northwestern offers: 

• 
Aprofessional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12: I. 

• 
Awell-rounded education in Basic and Clinical Sciences, Diagnosis, X-ray, and Chiropractic. 

• 
Full accreditation by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 


-~ Call: 1-800-888-4777 or ~....\.,.)] Write: Director ofAdmissions 
., "' ;;·,...,,• 2501 West 84th Street, Minneapolis, MN 55431 
page 17

Wednesday, February 16, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
Norbut 
continued from page 20 
I was flabergasted. I wasn't that drunk, so I couldn't blame my question on an over-con­sumption of alcohol. And any craziness that I was feeling quickly left when my friends walked me to the infirmary. I must have asked because I had a real burning desire to box. 
With her positive response, I felt so relaxed that I couldn't even feel the shot of painkiller stick into my arm. They could have probably taken my pan­creas out without my complain­ing. 
That's just one example of the impact that boxing has made on my life right now. I even wear my handwraps while I'm reading, and I never pass by a mirror now without stopping to check my punching form. 
Training has gotten me into the best shape of my life. Spar­ring has become a second way of life to me, and I'm actually at the point where I don't look stupid hitting the bags any­more. 
I don't think I could be more ready for the Bouts to begin. 
But at the same time, I can't help feeling a little apprehen­sive about getting in the ring Sunday. 
For one thing, I'm not quite sure who I'm fighting. With my luck, I'll end up fighting a pre­vious champion who will liter­ally pound me into the mat within the first two minutes of the match. 
Another thing is that my par­ents are coming up on Sunday to see the basketball game against DePaul, but they're not quite sure if they want to stop by Stepan Center to witness my "Raging Bull" debut. 
"You'll understand if I don't come to watch you fight, won't you Mike?" my mom asked apologetically. 
Come on Mom, you mean you don't want to see your only son in the world get punched by some random brawler? 
Oh, and another thing. I don't even have a name yet. 
-How can a guy really be ready to fight when he doesn't have an intimidating nickname? These are things out of my control, though. Whether or not I have to fight Jeff "Better Pray to" Goddard, have my par-
V-Ball 
continued from page 20 
ents there watching in horror, or don the name Mike "The Lithuanian Lumberjack" Norbut is completely up to other people. 
All I can do now is to try to control my nerves and wait. But that's much more easily said than done. No matter what I do, I won't be able to help feeling nervous this week­end. 
Last Friday, I got sick to my stomach in Theology class and had to leave early. 
And that was just for the team picture. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
Circulation Drivers 
Circulation Drivers needed between 11 :00 a.m. ­2:00p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. If interested, call Joe Riley at 4-1780. 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Marketing Director 
Applicant should be creative, have an interest in marketing, solid Macintosh experience, and strong self-motivation. If there are any questions please call Jake Peters at 1-5323 or Tom Lillig at 1-6900. Applicants are asked to submit a resume no later than Friday. 
believe they have a game plan that can deliver the long­sought victory. Notre Dame normally depends on the strong side, those hitters to the right of the setter, to deliver most of the points, but they have a surprise in store for State. 
"We have a tendency to stay on the strong side," said Cepo­nis, "But today, we are going to deceive them." 
With the Spartan defense out of sync, Ceponis and the rest of the hitters will find it that much easier to score. 
The Irish are not just going to use deception, but will also have an all-out, intensity filled attack. "This will be by far the most intense and exciting game of the year," explained Kovats. 
"It will take a total team ef­fort," reflected Ceponis. "All six men on the court have to step up." 
The entire team will need to 
play well because Michigan St. 
has no weaknesses. They have 
an effective, well-balanced of­
fense and a strong defense. 
However, according to the 
Irish, the Spartans will need 
more. 

"There's always a lot of trash 
talking when these two teams 
meet," exclaimed junior out­
side hitter Jack Fenn, "And 
we'll be the team backing it 
up." 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Service • Comrnunity • Culture • 
Open Minde~~ Prejudice Reduct· inating Stereo~y s Service 
w f?rejudi ~munity ® CtJ It ness~ Ser-vic Culture Open Prejudice Reel u ct minating Ster·eotypet? -Awareness Service ~ 
That•s what we•re all about. Interested? 

Multicultural Executive Council is now accepting applications for the 1994-95 school year 
Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office. Deadline: February 18 

-

page 18 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Sprouse outduels Spartans' Watson 

By PHIL lANGER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team successfully avenged last year's 4-3 loss to Michigan State by beating the Spartans 5-2 last night in front of an en­thusiastic home crowd at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Sophomore Mike Sprouse pulled off the marathon match of evening by defeating Richard Watson of Michigan State 6-2, 6-7 (7-3), 7-6 (7-3). 
Mike isn't a hitter, yet 
By BEN WALKER Associated Press 
SARASOTA, Fla. 
They came to see if Michael Jordan can hit. They heard the answer. He can't, at least not yet. 
Seldom did the sharp crack of Jordan's bat echo through low-slung Ed Smith Stadium. Instead, there were mostly dull thuds, the sound mushy softballs make. 
Using a right-handed swing that looked more manu­factured than natural. Jordan hit nearly 100 balls and only one managed to roll across the crushed-seashell warning track and reach the fence. There were plenty of popups, lots of weak flys and a bunch of balls beat into the dirt. 
Still, after his first outdoor workout that outsiders were allowed to observe, the newest Chicago White Sox rookie -and the world's greatest basketball player ­was satisfied. After all, this is why they have spring train­ing. 
"You have to be patient. I think it's going to be gradual improvement for me," he said. "The last thing I want to be is a sideshow. 
• 
... 
-
"It was definitely a battle," 
stated Sprouse following the 
grueling match. "We both had 
a lot of chances, but neither of 
us wanted to give in." 
Sprouse jumped to a 5-1 lead in the final set before Watson rallied to lead 6-5 and 30-0, two points away from winning the match. 
"I was able to stay in it and grit it out," commented Sprouse on the perilous cir­cumstances of the final set. 
"It was a test of who wanted it more, but I don't know if I can say who did want it more, since neither of us gave in," he added. 
In addition to Sprouse's vic­tory, fifth-year senior Andy Zurcher used the same focus and determination displayed when he upset Texas star Chad Clark over the weekend, beat­ing Michigan State's No.1, Mashiska Washington, brother of professional tennis star Mali Vai Washington, 5-7,6-3,6-3. 
The other singles victors of the night were senior Todd Wilson, who defeated Jayson Bedford 6-2, 6-4, sophomore John Jay O'Brien, who beat Mark Schwagle 7-6 (7-4), 6-2, and freshman Mike Mather, who, upon beating Jim Morsgal 6-3, 7-6 (7-2). is 2-0 since returning to the squad from back surgery. 
The Irish continued to prove that they are a force in doubles by sweeping three matches against extremely formidable opponents. Andy Zurcher and Allan Lopez beat Madribak/Bedford 8-4, Mike Sprouse and Jason Pun de­feated Giltner/Watson 8-1, and Todd Wilson and Ryan Simme beat SeckeVWashington 8-3. 
Notre Dame will spend the remainder of this week and the majority of next preparing to take their 6-1 record into the National Team Indoors tour­nament held in Louisville, Kentucky from February 24­27. 
When the Great 
American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduate.~ interested in exploring the possibility or a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 631-63X5 
Wednesday, February 16, 1994 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

Sophomore Mike Sprouse survived a grueling three set, two tiebreaker match to lead the Irish to a 5-2 victory over Michigan State. 
Leprechaun and 
0W0C8(]Q08Jc!J0(]
Tryouts 
1994-95 Cheerleader Squad Tryouts will be held in March. Students interested 
should attend 

the informational 
meeting February 
21, 1994 at 5:00 

p.m. at the JACC in the Pit. 
Please bring proof ofinsurance. 




----------------------------------~­
Wednesday, February 16, 1994 page 19
The Observer • TODAY 

SPELUNKER 
JAY HOSLER 

lJ 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Caddies carry 45 Lecture them 
46 Reserve supply 1 Noodlehead 27 In fairness 48 Promise word 
s Dagger handles 28 Boulevard so Beat one's 10 Silver-tongued 
30 Genteel gums 14 Eminently 32 Aquarii.lrr1fis"'i1' 51 Brook 
draftable 
33 Humble toiler 52 Writer Angelou 15 He has "99 
34 Pick 54 Eaglelike,beautiful perhaps
37 Training-room complaint 55 Perambulates 16 San--, Italy 
names" 
38 Robbery &1 Plains Indian 11 "Murder in the 
39 National 62 RegardingCathedral" Enquirer rival &3 Xenia's homesetting 40 66, e.g.: Abbr. 64 First-rate19 Faux pas 41 Like "Hee Haw" &5 Violet relative follower -humor && Arctic native 20Auto part 
421talian 21 Abe's "The Renaissance Woman in the poet DOWN " 
43 Two-time A.L. 
1 Baseball's 22 Bohea, e.g. M.V.P. 
Gooden 2--roll 3 Actor Cariou 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 "So long" s Yamaha rival li Noted absurdist 7 Kind of shot a Tobacco figure 9 Like a 
wallflower 10 Ptarmigan 
f.==+~±;.! 11 Assassin's victim, B/20/40 
13lmperious 
member 
~~~~!1!•-.-~~!Ql··· 12Spur 
OW OOP.'...\J\'11 ... li\, MRS. DERK\1-15 I WPS f.\01'1\\IG S\.1'5\t: WOULP A.W~\'·U:.R 11-\t. ... \J\L I \'11~1>-N. \lM, l't-.\ S~\.l.\1\\G 1-\\JGt. Sl'\ClW'aN.lS. WOOL\) iW LIKE 1\J 'iM o~V 


23 Upright 24 Miss Marple film "Murder-" 26 Upholstery 
concern 27 Stun 29 Up to 31 Cheerful 33 Persian sprite 35 Fettuccelle, e.g. 3& scout group 38 _de combat 

HAVE A SPRING BREAK TO REMEMBER 
Spring Break ... isn't that one of your favorite things to hear? It's that break from the stresses and strains of school, if only for a short time. But just because you're resting your body and mind doesn't mean you can stop thinking. 

39 "They called her 49 Sibyl subjects 
frivolous--" 53 Baseless? 41 Tobacco wad 55 Kind of dance 42 Singer Tucker 56 Cultural 
44 Deteriorates collection 45 Nice and warm 57 Writer Auletta 4&Work shoe 58 "Great idea!" 47 "Symposium" 59 Sass 
man &o Keystone fellow 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420­5656 (75¢ each mim:te). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


The Observer 
is on the never-ending quest for writers, photographers, designers, illustrators and much more. 
Interested? Need money? 'Want to pursue a career? Curious? 
Then call us for information at 631-7471 or visit our office on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. 
Play it safe. Because memories are 
friendship.
fond only if you have them. 
* 
Wear your seat belt -it's your best protection against an impaired driver. Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 631-7970 
MAKE THIS A SPRING BREAK TO REMEMBER... 
* You don't have to be drunk to be impaired --even one or two drinks affect 
your driving skills. 
* Drinking, drugs and driving don't mix. * 
Take your turn -be a designated driver and get everyone where they are going safely. 
* Respect other people's right, and your own --to choose not to drink. There's plenty of fun to be had without alcohol. 
* Respect state laws and campus policies. * 
Don't let your friends drive impaired-it's one of the fastest ways to end a 
-· •. 

-

SPORTS 
page 20 
Off-Campus struggles past 'Naugh 

ByJOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
When you're hot, you're hot, and when you're not, you're not. On Tuesday night senior Joe Godin was a small mi­crowave. 
Godin nailed six three-point­ers on the way to 22 points in leading Off-Campus to a 64-53 victory over Cavanaugh in the men's championship game in 
ByJOEVILLINSKI 
Sports W ritcr 
It may have not been pretty. but. Breen-Pbillips .got the job done with afierce defensive effort en route to a 29-22 vic­tory ovet Walsh Hall in the women's basketball interhall
final. · · · · 
''We really didn't know what to expect from Walsh tonight, but our defense came out strong and let us get an· early lead." said captain Kim Smith.4 
This early lead came at 4;.2 after two quick buckets byfreshman Meghan Shannon. From then on. Breen~Phillips 
·would never. rellnquish the lead, holding Walsh to just 

the Joyce Center arena. 
"Joe was unbelievable tonight," said Off-Campus cap­tain John Neal. "I've played with him for a while and I know he is a streaky shooter," added the now undefeated coach. 
Godin's performance was even more unbelievable given the fact that he brought his team back from a four-point deficit after Off-Campus had blown a seven-point lead. 
B~een-Phillips outlasts 

Walsh in defensive game 
four points in the third quarter and· forcing twelve turnovers. ln addition to the turnovers. the Banshees used the little height advantage they had to control the defenSive glass. 
"'We hit the boards well tonight." said B;P, head coach Todd Klimek; "We came up with some big rebounds at crucial times... · ,.. "They really rebqunded well tonight•." said Walsh head coach Steve Campbell. 
On the other side of the ball. Walsh hit every part of the rim but the net, failing to execute their outside game out of the half-court set. As a result, the 
see WOMEN'S IH I page 17 
Godin preceded to hit three three-pointers in a row to put Off-Campus up by seven from which they never looked back. 
"I was psyched to play on this floor tonight," said Godin. "Once I took my first jumper tonight, I felt a great rhythm." 
Godin, however, was not the only player who had a big role in the Off-Campus win. Senior Greg Midgett added two more treys, joining classmates Greg Berstein and Brendan Tully in a solid defensive effort. In addi­tion to defense both Midgett and Tully helped to take some of the attention away from Godin. 
"The credit goes to Midgett and Tully because they allowed for me to be guarded by small­er players," said Godin. "This allowed me to get a better look at the basket." 
The bulk of the Off-Campus team is no stranger to the win­ner's circle either. Neal, Tully, and Godin were all part of last year's interhall championship team from Morrissey. 
"Our experience was crucial in the victory," added Neal. 
Godin's performance took away from a valiant team effort form the 'Naugh men, playing in their last interhall basketball game as a dorm. Down by seven at halftime, 'Naugh stormed back with consecutive 
The Observer/John Bingham 

baskets by senior Adam Ward. 
Off-Campus senior Joe Godin goes over the Cavanaugh defense, scoring two of his 22 points in the lnterhall championship game. 
see MEN'S IH I page 17 
Revenge the agenda for Volleyball 
By G.R. NELSON 
Sports W ricer 
The undefeated men's volley­ball team battles a very strong Michigan State Spartan squad tonight at 7:30 in the Thunder­pit at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
This match should be nothing short of spectacular. The Irish, 6-0 in match play, have not de­feated the Spartans in four years. 
"We have not beaten them since I've been here." said se­nior outside hitter Tom Kovats. "This game definitely means more than any other." 
Captain Brian Ceponis shares those sentiments. "This is our biggest game of the year," added Ceponis. "First, it is Michigan State. Second, it is at home." 
In addition, these two teams do not like each other. "These guys beat us on 
.,. television and rubbed it in," commented an angry and de­termined Matt Strottman. The Irish, who split two games with the Spartans at a tournament earlier this year, 
see V-BALL I page 17 
PART Three 
The third in a series of articles by Assistant Sports Editor Mike Norbut as he trains for his first Bengal Bouts 

"Come on Mom, you mean you dont want to see your only son in the world get punched by some random brawler?"' 
As The Bouts approach our editor ponders his chances 

S
omething strange is happening to me. Two 
weeks ago, I was shoved into a Coke machine 
in our dorm, and found blood gushing out of a nasty gash in my right forearm. Security had to rush me to the emergency room, and I found that I needed three staples to close the wound. 
For a guy like me, who cringes when he hears the words "flu shot" and has never even seen the inside of an emergency room, I figured that I'd be terrified when the doctor pulled out the gun to stitch my skin together. 
I opened my mouth to scream, but words came out instead. The first thing I said to the doctor was, "I'm in Bengal Bouts. Can I still box?" 
see NORBUT I page# 

NAME THE NDRBUT Contest 
The race to name Mike continues. A winner will be announced in Friday's Observer. Entries will be taken until Thursday evening by phone at 631­
4543. 



-I 
Luge Downfalls 
Men's Tennis USA Hockey
Cammy Myler becomes 

Mike Sprouse gave 
The United States came

the second US luger to 
everything he had in a 
back to tie Slovakia 3-3 

have medal hopes 
demanding three set vic­
for its second draw of the 

dashed in one slick turn. 
tory to pace the Irish 
Olympics.
I

r:QQS) 
<i()()(")
over Michigan State. 
see page 12 
'-()"0"'
see page 14 
see page 12 

Lillehammer'94 
Lillehammer'94 





