



BrandonCandurafl'heObseMir 
Gearina up 
Fisher sopnomore Michael Kowalsky demonstrates climbing tech­niques at the Rockne Memorial climbing wall training session. 

Student presidents still proiDise fun year 
Tuesday, September 13, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 12 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Service held for crash victims 
By KATE CRISHAM 
Assistant News Editor 
The Student Government office has not shut down. Stu­dents recently signed their an­nual hefty checks for season football tickets. And the possi­bility of a Grateful Dead concert at Notre Dame is, for all practi­cal purposes, dead. 
Yet student body president and vice president David Hun­geling and Matt Orsagh still remain committed to the pri­mary goal of their campaign: bringing fun to the Notre Dame campus. 
"People didn't necessarily vote for us because they want­ed free football tickets or they wanted to see the Dead," said Hungeling. "They wanted someone who wouldn't be a typical student government person. They wanted someone who would bring fun to Notre Dame." 
Hungeling said that a variety of factors contributed to the Grateful Dead's reluctance to travel to Notre Dame. 
"It's basically a combination of the size of the facility and the fact that South Bend is not the typical city the Dead plays at," he said. "It's not high profile or large enough." 
Hungeling also said that a student government committee met with Director of Ticketing and Marketing William Scholl to discuss the possibility of free student football tickets. 
"We discussed how Notre Dame arrives at the ticket prices and what the revenue is used for," he said. "If we did have free student tickets either the General Admission price would increase or else all the athletic teams would take a loss." 
"It would definitely involve a big fight, so we're trying to de­cide whether or not to push it," he said. 
Hungeling and Orsagh said that the issues that they are fo­cusing on include a massive clothing drive and the possibil­ity of a major concert in the spring. 
"The organization of a mas­sive underwear and clothing drive to benefit parishes in Puerto Rico and hopefully the realization of a big concert are our main goals right now," Hungeling said. 
"Changing policy isn't a huge goal of ours," he said. "We're basically trying to change the way students view life and view their school and provide more opportunities to have fun." 
According to Hungeling and Orsagh, changes in the organi­zation and structure of student government have allowed things to run more efficiently. 
"Things are running good, mainly because we have a lot of autonomy among the various commissioners," Htingeling said. 
"We've also tried to have a smaller staff and to cut down on needless expenses and correspondence," Hungeling said. "We're also being more frugal with how we advertise." 
"All in all everything is going well." 
By CLAUDIA COATES 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Hymns echoed softly through a crowded downtown square Monday as 2,000 people gath­ered at lunchtime to mourn the victims of USAir Flight 427. 
"Maybe God will give me some answers to what hap­pened," said Pam Kastelmeyer, whose neighbor's daughter was among 132 people killed when the jet crashed Thursday in a wooded ravine. 
Some of the victims' loved ones were stoic through several prayers, but they broke down and sobbed when a priest read the names of the dead. A wreath adorned with red car­nations and tiny white flowers stood alone in front of a stage set up on Market Square, in the city's business district. 
About 20 miles away at the crash site, investigators contin­ued their search for clues. 
Carl Vogt, a member of the National Transportation Safety Board, told reporters Monday night investigators are using a computer model of the plane to test three possible scenarios they think may have caused the crash. 
One scenario is that the right engine of the Boeing 737-300 inadvertently went into reverse before the plane nose-dived six miles short of Pittsburgh Inter­national Airport. A flight crew reported problems with the engine's thrust reverser 2 1/2 months ago. 
Another scenario is that the right engine came loose from its position near the wing. The right engine's rear mount has not been found, although the forward mount has been lo-
Notre Dame chairman escapes fatal flight 427 
By DAVE TYLER 
Assistant News Editor 
Despite the last second loss by his football team this week­end, Andrew McKenna, Chairman of Notre Dame's Board ofr-----=-----~ Trustees con­siders himself "very lucky." 
"I almost wasn't here," McKenna said in an inter­view this weekend. 
McKenna was a pas­senger on USAir flight 427 from Charlotte, N.C., to Chicago on Thursday afternoon. That plane then took off bound for Pitts­burgh. Shortly after 7:00 p.m. COT, the jet mysteriously plunged into a field six miles from its destination, killing all 13 2 passengers and crew aboard. 
"I feel very fortunate to have made the last safe landing in that aircraft," he said. 
While waiting to deplane, McKenna had a conversation with a member of the crew. 


"I was talking with one of the flight attendants, and he was saying how eager he was to get back home. He was going to continue to Philadelphia to see his wife and kids. It really shows how fragile life is, and how when put in perspective how unimportant Saturday's results are," McKenna noted. 
McKenna plans to send a let­ter of condolence to the atten­dant's family "to let them know about our conversation, and offer my sympathy." 
Since Friday, McKenna said he has spoken to investigators from the National Transporta­tion Safety Board twice, to relay some "observations" he made during his flight Thursday. 
"They're little things, but they are worth telling the NTSB in light of what happened," he said. 
McKenna declined to elabo­rate on the nature of his obser­vations, saying that he would rather allow investigators to determine the importance o 
see MCKENNA I page 4 

Mishel touts change for economy 
By ETHAN HAYWARD News Writer 
Change is necessary for progress when it comes to busi­ness and politics, according to Lawrence Mishel, Research Director of the Economic Policy Institute. 
In his lecture,"The Polariza­tion of America: Where Have the Good Jobs Gone?," Mishel said that the main economic problem facing America is that the median wage keeps falling behind the rate of inflation each year. 
According to Mishel, polariza­
Shelley SullivaniThe Obsetver

tion is the continuing trend of 
Lawrence Mishel, Research Director of the Economic Policy Institute, 
economic growth benefitting 
spoke last night at DeBartolo on business and politics. 
only the minority privileged class and not the vast majority of citizens. 
He presented statistics show­ing how average wages have been declining since 1979, only slightly less for women than men, while the upper one per cent of wage earners increased their income by at least sixty per cent in the same time pe­riod. 
Mishel said that the nation's economic institutions are prone to reporting only good news rather than the objective story. Institutions sometimes present false reasons for the stagnation of wages, such as slow produc­cated. 
The third possibility is that air-brakes on the wings, which help control the plane's direc­tion, may have deployed im­properly. 
Investigators believe some­thing caused the plane's right wing to rise, which in turn caused the plane to drop to the left, Vogt said. 
"We want to examine every­thing that might have caused the right wing to rise," he said. 
ABC reported Monday night that Boeing and the Federal Aviation Administration knew that the thrust reverser sys­tems on 737s could be danger­ous. 
The crash of a Boeing 767 that plunged 24,000 feet into 

tivity growth, substandard edu­cation, and government-man­dated employee benefits, ac­cording to Mishel. 
The conventional wisdom holds that new technology has created more demand for high­ly skilled and educated work­ers, Mishel said. Through a series of charts and statistics, Mishal proved that since 1989, the wage gap between college graduates and non-college graduates was not significant. 
Mishel pointed out employ­ers' efforts to cut costs and in­crease production, presenting practices such as overseas pur­chasing and employment of temporary workers as trends which systematically squeeze out well-paying, permanent jobs. 
Mishel called himself a "doom and gloomer," meaning he has no good news for the present or future economy unless radical change takes place soon. 
Mishel discussed several pos­sible solutions to the wage dilemma, and he said that "the ideology of business and politics requires severe change if progress is to take place." 
f 
I 
! 
! 
'r 
! I 
I 
page 2 
• Inside Column 


You're never going to beat 
US, SO JOin US 

I have seen the happiest place on earth, and I didn't have to give the Disney Corporation a cou­ple of G's to see it. 
Last year, I went along Ryan Malayter with my housemate Ad Design Manager Tweety to what has to be the most hollwed ground on the Notre Dame cam­pus. Gate 10 of the Football Stadium. Never been there? Let me illumi­nate. You see, I love smoking. No, I don't smoke because I think it looks cool (although it does­ever see Casablanca?). And I don't smoke to get back at my parents for never getting me that 
car at sixteen. I love smoking because, like most smokers, I like the taste of cigarettes (and for that matter, cigars). I also like smoking because 
it makes you feel so very good after three quar­ters of a Papa John's 'roni and a six-pack o Natural Light. I like smoking because it passes time-I now think of walking distances in terms of smokes: Stanford, my former home, is exactly one smoke away from Nieuwland. 
But most of all, I like smoking because I like smokers and they like me. Smokers are looked down upon by every non-smoking soul on earth, and it brings us together. Ever cough rudely as you passed that group of people on the steps o LaFortune just smoking and talking? Well, most of us don't know each other. We talk because we can smoke together, and it makes us unafraid. If you can't think of anything to say, you just take a drag and wait for something to come to mind. It's by far the easiest way to meet people on this campus. 
But back to Gate 10, The Best Kept Secret o the Century. Gate 10 is the smoker's gate, the only place in the House of Rock where you can light up without being beaten about the face by serveral ushers and any non-smokers who hap­pen to feel the urge to lend them a hand. Leave a couple of minutes before the end of the first half, grab a friend, and head south from the student section. Once you pass through The Gate, you will be heartily greeted by approxi­ametly 400 of the most loveable examples of the human animal around. Ran out of smokes at the tailgater? No problem. Everybody has 'em, and anyone will be more than pleased to share their little smokey treats and some conversation. 
Occasionaly, a non-smoker looking for shorter concession lines will brave his/her way out into the sunlinght, and immediately begin coughing (not because they have to, just because they want to make you feel bad). Just smile politely and puff away-you're among friends here. Last week Tweety and I returned to the stands just in time to see The Kick sailing through the uprights. Sure, we lost the game, and that's no fun. but I smoked half a pack of Marlboros with some of the finest people on Earth. Who knows how many more quarters of football I'll miss? Who cares? I'd pay for GA's just to get in there. 
Non-smokers of the world, be forewarned. You can't keep us down for long. Jeez, they were even talking about making Stanford a non-smoking building. Now that would truly be a crime of monumental discrimination-the after-meal smoke in the Soul Section was a tra­dition on par with the Irish Guard. The anti­smoking policy on this campus has gotten bad enough. So grab your Zippo, kiddo, and take advantage of what may be the last place on campus where smoking is sanctioned. If you're 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Today's Staff  
News VIvian Gembara Gwendolyn Norgle Sports Tim Sherman  Production Belle Bautista Whitney Sheets Accent Lisa Monaco  
Lab Tech Eric Ruethlig  Graphics Zoe Marin  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ~xcepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, September 13, 1994 
• World at aGlance 
Emmy awards receives highest ratings in eight years 
LOS ANGELES Add another winner to the Emmy list: the awards broadcast got its highest ratings in eight years. 
The broadcast was seen by an estimated 54 million television viewers-a 15 percent increase over last year, said James L. Loper, executive director of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. 
NBC's "Frasier" took the trophy for best comedy series and CBS' "Picket Fences" was named best drama at Sunday's 46th annual Emmy Awards. 
The ABC broadcast posted a 17.1 average rating and a 26 share in overnight ratings from 32 major TV markets representing about half the country, according to Nielsen figures released Monday by the network. 
One overnight ratings point equals 514,000 TV homes. Share is the percentage of TV sets in use tuned to a par­ticular network. 
ABC estimated that 54 million people watched all or part of the broadcast, which won its time slot. National ratings will be released Tuesday. 
The ceremony is gradually winning back viewers lost when the academy shifted from a broadcast rotation with ABC, CBS and NBC to an exclusive six-year deal in 1987 with the young Fox Broadcasting Co., Loper said. 
Ratings plunged from a healthy 23 average on NBC in 1986 to an anemic 8.8 on the smaller Fox network that first year. By 1992, the ratings were up somewhat, to 13.9, but well below the glory years. 
Bush's son claims governor's nomination 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Jeb Bush became the Republican nominee for governor of Florida on Monday as his closest challenger with­drew from the race, eliminating the need for a runoff election. The 41-year­old son of former President Bush will face Democratic Gov. Lawton Chiles in November. Bush won 46 percent of the vote in Thursday's GOP primary, just 
·.. . short of the majority needed to win the nomination out­right. That set him up for an Oct. 4 runoff against Secre­tary of State Jim Smith, the second-place finisher with 18 percent. Smith announced his withdrawal from the race Monday at a news conference attended by Bush. "Too much to make up. No way to do it," Smith said. "There would have to be a bloodletting." Smith gave his support to Bush. "Jeb is certainly a young man with a lot of en­ergy," he said. His withdrawal was made before the pri­mary results were officially certified, so the Bus~-Smith race will not be on the runoff ballot, state electiOn offi­cials said. "He's putting aside his ambitions for the prin­ciples he believes in," Bush said of Smith. "The Republican Party is now officially united." Bush, 41, planned to join his father for a private fund-raiser Tuesday night in Islamorada in the Florida Keys. 
Hughes to lay off4,000 employees 
LOS ANGELES 
GM Hughes Electronics will lay off 4,400 workers as part of a cost-cutting program prompted by shrinking defense spending. The layoffs, which will take place through 1995, represent nearly 10 percent of the a~ro­space company's worldwide work force. Hughes bmlds ship-based radar. air traffic control gear and large-sca~e air-defense systems, including the system NATO uses m Europe. "We must continue to maintain a competitive edge if we are to grow a busine~s. base that will _help us ensure a viable company and thnvmg work force mto the future," C. Michael Armstrong, chairman and chief exec­utive, said Monday. 
The Observer/Zoe Marin 

Germany's Bayer regains Bayer aspirin 
NEW YORK 

Bayer AG, the German drugmaker that was stripped of 
its U.S. aspirin business in the aftermath of World War I, 
is buying it back 76 years later. Bayer said Monday it will 
pay $1 billion to British drugmaker SmithKline Beecham 
PLC for the North American over-the-counter drug busi­
ness of Sterling Winthrop Inc. In addition to be IT s such 
products as Midol, Phillips' Milk of Magnesia, Neo­
Synephrine decongestants and Stridex acne treatments. 
The deal, if approved by U.S. antitrust regulators. would 
give Bayer AG back the businesses it lost in 1918, when 
they were confiscated as enemy property by the U.S. g?v­
ernment and auctioned off to Sterling. Bayer AG contm­
ued to sell Bayer aspirin elsewhere around the world. 
Sterling is now owned by Eastman Kodak Co., but two 
weeks ago, SmithKline agreed to buy Sterling's world­
wide over-the-counter drug businesses for $2.9 billion, 
outbidding Bayer AG and others. Bayer chairman M~n­
fred Schneider said the reuniting of the Bayer name w1th 
its parent is "a memorable event in our corporate his­
tory." Drug industry analysts said the deal may .h~ve 
more sentimental than monetary value because It m­
volves older brands in a highly competitive market. 
SmithKline already has a $584 million-a-year over-the­
counter drug business in the United States. 
Separatist Party leads in Quebec election 
MONTREAL 

Quebec voters took what could be their first step 
toward independence Monday by giving the separatist 
Parti Quebecois a solid majority in the provincial legisla­
ture. Official results showed Jacques Parizeau's Parti 
Quebecois winning 69 seats in the 125-seat legislature 
and leading in 12 districts. Premier Daniel Johnson's 
Liberal Party had won 38 seats and was leading in five. 
One seat was won by the small, separatist Democratic 
Action Party. Parizeau, 64, has promised that his govern­
ment would hold a referendum within a year on whether 
the predominantly French-speaking province should split 
from Anglophone Canada. 
• Indiana Weather • National Weather 
Tuesday, Sept. 13 The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 13 Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

-r-r ...&....&.. .......... COLD WARM STATIONARY c 1994 Accu-Weather,lnc. Pressure ~ ~ ~ 

H L B~[TIJ 0~§¥ L-ie........!. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vut AUoclaled Press 


Atlanta 88 Anchorage 58 Chicago 87 Cleveland 79 Denver 90 69 Honolulu 90 78 Minneapolis 7 4 65 45 Houston 90 71 New Orleans 88 72 65 London 73 54 New York 78 54 43 Los Angeles 77 64 Philadelphia 77 55 55 Miami 83 74 Phoenix 100 77 


-------~---­
Tuesday, September 13, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
S01all plane crashes D.C. trip planned by Republicans 
By MYRNA MALONEY spectively, said Renshaw. Republican National Commit­
Assistant Saim Mary's Editor "We have been invited to tee. In addition, he hopes to
on White House lawn 
Oelfl.et.tirj Tk ~Rzzo./ 

Beat the Clock Tuesday 
By JOHN ROLL 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

The man who crashed a small plane into the White House to­day had been distraught over the death of his father and the breakup of his marriage, ac­cording to relatives. 
Frank Corder, 39, apparently stole a small plane early this morning from an airfield in Harford County north of Balti­more, flew it to Washington and crashed on the White House lawn just short of the mansion. He died in the crash. 
John Corder, 41, said he hadn't talked with his brother since he moved out of the Perry Point house he shared with his wife, Lydia, three weeks ago. The couple didn't have any children. 
Neighbors said they were a quiet couple who had moved to Perry Point about six weeks ago. 
Frank Corder, who grew up in Aberdeen, had never been in trouble with police and didn't hold strong political beliefs, John Corder said in a telephone interview from his Aberdeen home. A state police official confirmed that Corder didn't have a police record. 
John Corder said he couldn't 
explain his brother's actions to­
day. 


The Opening Mass 
ofthe 
NDE4thDay Community 
Will be 

Wednesday; September 14th at the Grotto, 8:30p.m. 
Bring blankets ifit's cold! 
"To tell you the truth, I can't explain it. I don't know. It came as a real surprise to me," he said. 
Other relatives said Corder had a drug problem and grew despondent after his father died of cancer last year and may have been committing sui­cide when he crashed onto the White House grounds. 
"I think he just went to pieces," said Edith Dishman, Corder's aunt. "He did this to destroy himself." 
His first-cousin Dee George, of Havre de Grace, said Corder was also distraught over the separation from his wife. 
"Frank has been down on drugs and alcohol before. He told me that sometimes ... he just wished he had a gun," she said. 
But Ms. George said Corder seemed upbeat when she last saw him five days ago. 
She described him as a "typi­cal American Joe. He was a jeans and flannel shirt type of guy. He was real friendly. He'd talk to anybody he'd help any­body," she said. 
Another brother, William Corder, told CBS that Frank was not a violent man and never expressed any com­plaints about President Clinton. 
Corder had undergone alco­hol detoxification at the Perry Point Veterans Hospital. 

The Papa Zone 

Ifyou call during 5 p.m. -7:30 p.m the price of a large, one-topping pizza is the time you call plus tax! It's Time to Call Your Papa! • 271-1177 
A trip to Washington, D.C. over fall break will be spon­sored by the Saint Mary's Col­lege Young Republicans Club and will feature special tours and events with renown politi­cal personalities. 
"We will depart from Chicago on September 22nd, spend five nights at the Embassy Square Suites in Washington, tour various his­torical attractions and return on September 27th," according to Claude Renshaw, Professor of Business Administration and Economics. 
The club can accommodate as many as 16 people from both Saint Mary's and the University of Notre Dame, although prior­ity will be given to Club mem­bers, followed by Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students re-
Protestants responsible for bomb 
By TOM McPHAIL 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN 

Protestant militants claimed responsibility for a bomb that injured two train passengers Monday, and said the attack was a warning that Northern Ireland's Protestant majority would not be "coerced, forced or persuaded into a united Ire­land." 
The attack was the first in Ireland since the Irish Republi­can Army announced a cease­fire Aug. 31 in its violent 25­year campaign to drive the British from Northern Ireland. 
COLORADO 
..... 

NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER' 
Please Recycle The Observer 
13TH ANNUAL 

kick off our trip with a Washington Alumnae reception and auction in Maryland with Regis Philbin as the auctioneer on Saturday night. Sunday, we plan to attend Mass at the recently completed National Cathederal -a project that has taken over eight years to com­plete," Renshaw said. 
"I have been in contact with recent Saint Mary's graduate Angela Flood who works for Senator Dan Coates, and she was able to obtain special pass­es for tours of the F .B.1. and the Bureau of Engraving. Students will also tour the Smithsonian and Holocaust museums and will receive guided VIP tours of the White House and the Capitol building, " he said. 
Renshaw plans to have the group meet with congressional staffers and members of the 
Britain and Ireland appealed to the IRA not to retaliate. 
The IRA has not avenged three attacks by Protestant mili­tants in Northern Ireland since the cease-fire was announced. 
Protestant extremists fear the evolving peace process will pull Northern Ireland out of Britain and into a union with Ireland. 
According to spokesman Cyril Ferris, it was too late to clear the train. 
Minutes before the explo­sion, the outlawed Ulster Volun­teer Force sent a coded warn­ing to Ulster Television, the air­port, and the city hall. 
In Belfast, the group said the 

The Observer 
the News Department is now 
accepting applications for the 
Business Page Copy Editor 
position. Please submit a letter ofintent and resume by Thursday, Sept. 15 at 5 p.m. Questions? Call Michael Martin at 631-5323. 
Funny Business Presents 
11••1111\1!"
lflun....n 
MYSTERIES, 
ON CAMPUS 
America's 
Favorite 

WHO DONE IT? 
100% Audience Participation Show 
WIN CASH PRIZES T-SHIRTS SQUIRT GUNS 
Don't Miss All The Fun And Excitement 
A !IIJil))l~ll IS ilUOIJ1' '1'0 DAI,I,I~N ••• 
1\7DI!Ill!: 1\7 DI~N:  S!l(~ (~J..UIIDOIJSI~ SJUJ'I'I~)IIIIUl ILfl'D ll'l' 7:00 IJ.)J.  
2 00 A))!II "SION  

book sessions with such politi­cal personalities as Jack Kemp, Elizabeth Dole, and Lynne Ch­eney, who was the com­mencement speaker last year at Saint Mary's. 
"Wednesday, we are plan­ning trips to Mount Vernon, for­mer home of George Washington, as well as Arlington National Cemetery, Ford Theatre, Union Station, the Postal Museum, The Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and Water­gate," he said. 
Interested students should contact Professor Renshaw by next week, as a down payment of $100 must be paid by September 16th. The total price of the trip, which includes round trip airfare, hotel ac­commodations and three meals is $455. 
attack was a warning to the Irish government "that North­ern Ireland is still British and will not be coerced, forced or persuaded into a united Ire­land." 
The Combined Loyalist Mili­tary Command, representing the UlsTeer Defense Associa­tion, said last week that it would not consider a cease-fire until it sees what plans Britain and Ireland have for Northern Ireland. 
Just a week after the cease­frre, Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds clasped hands in Dublin with Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 13,1994 
Despite illness, Mitterand remains McKenna 
By ELAINE 
GANLEY 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
President Francois Mitterrand, 

looking pale 
Francois 
but sounding 
Mitterand
combative, said Monday he hasn't considered resigning because of his prostate cancer and won't quit over a scandal about his ties to Nazi collabora­tors. 
If detractors tried to force him out, "I would work even more to stay to the end," the president said. 
Mitterrand defended a rela­tionship he maintained until the 1980s with Rene Bousquet, po­lice chief in the collaborationist Vichy government. And he admitted that he intervened to slow legal proceedings in the interests of French "reconcilia­tion." 

Bousquet was murdered in 1993. 
Mitterrand spoke in a 90­minute television interview amid a growing scandal over his ties to Nazi collaborators and questions about whether he remains physically fit enough to remain in office until the end of his term in May. 
The 77-year-old president, the doyen of European leaders, has been in office since 1981. 
Mitterrand said his cancer had "not been reduced" by treatment. 
''I'm in a situation of com­bat," said the chief of state, whose pale face, sometimes quaking hands and raspy voice attested to his illness and treat­ment. "And when I fight a bat­tle, I do so as someone who will win." 
Mitterrand conceded that his illness could "accelerate," but that, so far, it has not inter­fered with his official functions. 
It was Mitterrand's first tele­vision interview since undergo­ing a second operation in July. The interview was conducted by the head of the state-run France 2 network, Jean-Pierre Elkabbach. 
Discovery's robot perforiDs tasks 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL 
Discovery's Mr. Romps, the first U.S. robot in space, zipped through its manufacturing work with semiconductors aboard the shuttle Monday and even completed extra chores. 
The robot master was im­pressed. 
"We're pleased, keeping our fingers crossed, knocking on wood," NASA project manager Lloyd Purves said from the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. 
Romps, short for Robot Operated Materials Processing System, heated 29 semiconduc­tor crystals in furnaces as Dis­covery's six astronauts slept. The plan called for 26 samples to be removed from storage racks and placed in the fur­naces one at a time; the robot worked faster than expected. 
It was the second workout for Romps, which is making its orbital debut. The first on Sat­urday was just a warm-up. 
There was a minor problem with a furnace timer, but the 2 1/2-foot, 250-pound robot itself performed perfectly, Purves said. 
Romps is behaving well in an even more important way, at least in the eyes of Purves' 7­year-old son, Austin. 

"It took him a little while to understand what I was doing, but he finally decided I build good robots that go into space," as opposed to the bad-guy robots depicted in comic books, Purves said. 
NASA's view of the future is­n't nearly that sensational. Rather than robots battling over good and evil, Purves and other Romps managers envi­sion robot-run semiconductor factories in orbit. 
Space-produced crystals tend to be bigger and purer than those grown on Earth; better semiconductors could lead to more powerful computer chips and solar cells. 
NASA spent $3 million on the experiment, most of that for the robot. Romps has a two-finger, viselike gripper with four sen­sors that tell the machine how much pressure it's exerting on objects. 
Romps starts working in Dis­covery's cargo bay when the astronauts go to sleep, and quits when they wake up. The robot needs absolute calm to handle the crystals; any vibra­tions by the crew could ruin the samples. 
Electric Racing Series Champion 


Informational Meeting Sept. 13th at 6:30 P.M. 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
AlL MAJORS WEl..COl\1E TO ATTEND 
The experiment is timed so that the crystals are processed in between Discovery's thruster firings, needed to point the shuttle laser-beam machine at the proper spot on Earth for an atmospheric survey. 
Monday's session left Romps with just 71 more samples to bake. The nine-day flight ends Sunday. 
For the third day in a row, Discovery's pilots fired their steering jets at engine-exhaust monitors on the end of an 82­foot boom extending from the cargo bay. And for the third day, the crew had trouble col­lecting data from those moni­tors. This time, it took longer than usual to solve the prob­lem. 
NASA wants to know as much as possible about the damaging effects of jet exhaust before space shuttle Atlantis docks with Russia's Mir station in May. 
The astronauts also had to contend with defective drink bags. 
The president said he would leave office early if "if my suf­fering were such that it weighed on me to the point that I would be more preoccupied with my fate ... than the con­cerns of state. At that point, it is obvious one must go .... " But ''I'm not there yet," he added. 
Gloomy reports about his health coincided with revela­tions that Mitterrand, a Social­ist, was a rightist sympathizer in his youth who early on sup­ported the collaborationist Vichy government of Philippe Petain during World War II. 
The president's past, exposed in a book by Pierre Pean, "Une Jeunesse Francaise" (A French Youth), set off the frenzied de­bate. 
continued from page 1 
anything he had to say. 
"I don't know if it would be proper to comment at this time. They (the NTSB) have a job to do, and they are the authorities is this matter. I'll let their find­ings do the talking." 
In addition to his duties as chairman of the board at Notre Dame, McKenna sits on the boards of the Chicago Bears football team, the Chicago Cubs baseball club, and the Tribune Company. He is also Chief Ex­ecutive Officer of Schwartz Pa­per Company of Morton Grove, Illinois. 
The Chicago Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

WANT TO IMPRESS YOUR NEXT SYR DATE, LEARN SOME COOL DANCES, AND HAVE FUN AT THE SAME TIME? 
JOIN THE BALLROOM DANCE CLUB! 
Classes start Thursday at Stepan Center. just 
pick the class that's more appropriate for you! 
7..8:30 SYR Essentials: For people interested in learning the basics of the waltz, fox trot, cha,cha, and the swing. 
8:30.. 10 Strictly Ballroom: Dance like your favorite movie stars! Learn choreographed routines using the viennese waltz, bolero, samba, and tango. 
Questions? Call Joe Cavataio at 4 .. 1763. 

arrotTop 
~­
....
... 
~
tel 

~ == ~ 
u a:
.= ~
.. ..... 
tD
c... 

0 n Cl 0
.... 

a g 
ft

0 -· 
u 0
...,
u 
pt.
.... 

tel :r 
tD
:1 

~ ~ 
~ 
~ 

_..... ~
.. 
-~ 

Monday9 Septe.uber I99 I994 ~ashington Hall s:oo p •.u 
Student Tielrets now available or at the LaFortune Box 0 iee. 
Tuesday, September 13, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Peacekeeping force lands at Puerto Rico base 
By DAVID BEARD that collected them from Caribbean soldiers, Army Maj. ing out peacekeeping duties af­Associated Press around the Caribbean. Steve Panton said. ter American troops toppled 
Secretary of State War­Britain, one of the 17 nations leftists who had executed Prime 
PUERTO RICO ren Christopher said 17 nations providing troops, also will send Minister Maurice Bishop. 
The first contingent of a have agreed to send about a 12-member team to assist in Belize and several other re­multinational peacekeeping 1,500 soldiers to assist Ameri­the training, its defense min­gional nations that had opposed force for Haiti arrived Monday can forces in the anticipated istry said Monday. the Grenada invasion, such as evening at a U.S. military base U.S.-led invasion of Haiti, Jamaicans, who make up the Guyana and Trinidad and To­in Puerto Rico for at least two aimed at ousting military rulers bulk of the first unit sent to bago, are supporting interven­weeks of training. and restoring democracy. Puerto Rico. were given a send­tion to kick out military dicta­
About 150 soldiers and police The training of the multina­off by their prime minister, P .J. tors and restore exiled civilian from Antigua and Barbuda, Be­tional force, intended mainly Patterson, who urged them to President Jean-Bertrand Aris­lize and Jamaica arrived at for peacekeeping use after the help restore democracy to mili­tide. Roosevelt Roads Naval Station invasion, would not affect the tary-dominated Haiti. Training will begin Wednes­hours after 1,300 Marines timing of any invasion, Christo­Jamaica and Antigua and day with the issuance of wrapped up six days of military pher said from Washington. Barbuda were among weapons and other equipment exercises at the vast base in Hundreds of U.S. Army Spe­Caribbean nations that commit­at Camp Santiago, a Puerto Ri­eastern Puerto Rico. cial Forces units and military ted troops to the U.S.-led inva­can National Guard base in 
They came aboard a jetliner police will help drill the sion of Grenada in 1983, carry-southern Puerto Rico. 
Fall Break Seminars 
October 23-28, 1994 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACBITASENITNAR Service learning at one of eleven 
sites in the Appalachian region One-credit Theology Information meeting (optional): 
Tuesday, Sept. 13, 6:30-7:00PM 
NEW WOMEN, NEW CHURCH Explore the changing role of women in the Church, and related issues of service 
Experiential learning at various sites, with women in social ministry One-credit Theology or Gender Studies 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR Explore the cultural richness of Chicago Examines issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Our Violent Society 

Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government 
Information meeting: Tuesday, Sept. 13: 6:15-6:45 PM 


Applications Available Now at the Center for Social Concerns 
Applications Due: Sept. 20, 1994 
All Seminars Return Friday 10/28 for Parents' Weekend 
Liberia's factions sign pact 
By GILBERT AYIITEY 
Associated Press 
AKOSOMBO,Ghana 

Liberia's three main warring factions signed yet another peace pact on Monday, sup­posed to ensure that they keep to a previous accord to end the nearly five-year-old civil war. 
The pact, officially an annex to the June 1993 agreement brokered by the United Nations, was signed late Monday on a yacht off Akosombo, a Ghanaian lake­side resort northeast of Accra. 
It calls for an immediate cease-fire, elections next year and a five-member joint presi­dency of representatives of warring factions to govern in the meantime. 
Those who signed were Gen. Hezekiah Bowen of the Liberian Armed Forces, Alhaji Kromah of the United Liberation Movement for Democracy in Liberia, and Charles Taylor. the main guer­rilla chief whose leadership of the National Patriotic Front is in doubt. 
Fighting broke out among Taylor's fighters at his head­quarters, the central Liberian town of Gbarnga, soon after he left for Ghana last week and spread at the weekend to the port town of Harper. 
The U.N. military observer mission in Liberia announced on Saturday that a coalition of Taylor dissidents and fighters from a breakaway faction of Kromah's movement appeared to have seized Gbarnga. 
But the fighting continued there on Monday, and Western aid officials said it was not clear who controlled the town. 
Last week, leading defectors from Taylor's movement an­nounced they had ousted him from the leadership and re­placed him with his former de­fense minister, Tom Woewiyu, who is one of the Taylor repre­sentatives in an interim gov­ernment in Monrovia, the capi­tal. 
In a statement on Monday, Woewiyu said Taylor no longer had the power to represent the Patriotic Front at the talks in Ghana. 
"Taylor has lost sight of the existing realities and remains the major obstacle to the restoration of lasting peace," Woewiyu said. 
Woewiyu said his forces now controlled Gbarnga. 
But another statement from Monrovia later Monday, this one from Taylor loyalists, said they still held the town. 
There have been no tele­phone communications in Liberia, outside of Monrovia, since 1990. 
Taylor began the war in De­
cember 1989. What started as 
a popular rebellion to oust a 
tribalist dictatorship ballooned 
into a tribal war that the 
United Nations estimates has 
killed more than 150,000 peo­
ple. 
Two of every three of Liberi­
a's 2.3 million people are 
either displaced inside the 
country or refugees in other 
states. 
The men who signed Mon­day's accord all signed the June 1993 agreement that was supposed to have led to elec­tions last week. 
Instead, three more rebel 
groups have sprung up and the 
fighting has spread. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 13, 1994 
Cubans hopeful US restrictions will be lifted 
By CHRIS TORCHIA Associated Press 
HAVANA 
Encouraged by news that the United States will let more Cubans enter the country legal­ly, hundreds of people milled 
around U.S. government offices in Havana on Monday, hop­ing for word on how to get a visa. 
A 

spokesman Fidel Castro for Cuba's In­terior Ministry, however, said details of the new U.S.-Cuban immi­gration deal were still being worked out and would be announced in the state media. 
"We've just got to be patient and wait," said Olga Rodriguez, sheltering herself from the sun with an umbrella. "If everything were all right in this country, we wouldn't have to go anywhere." 

In contrast to the busy scene at the U.S. offices, there were only a couple rafts on the shores of Cojimar. The Havana neighborhood has been a main departure point for thousands of Cuban boat people fleeing hunger and poverty in their Communist country this year. 
Under a deal reached Friday, the U.S. administration agreed to allow at least 20,000 Cubans a year to immigrate legally. In return, Cuba promised to halt the flight of rafters and gave them until Tuesday to remove their crafts from the beach. 
Crowds gathered in a park and on the street near the U.S. government offices. Some perched on stone walls, their bicycles propped up beside them. 
"I have more faith," said Ri­cardo Lamonte, a 56-year-old accountant who wants to visit relatives in Texas and Califor­nia. "But I realize that not ev­erybody can get in." 
In the past, only a few thou­sand Cubans were allowed to immigrate each year, and most of the people who lined up out­side the building seeking visas left empty-handed. The back­log is so great that visas grant­ed now were applied for 10 years ago. 
The United States closed its embassy after President Fidel Castro took power but main­tains an interest section in the seafront building that used to house the embassy. The inter­est section is technically an arm of the Swiss Embassy. 
Sonia Lobo, a 30-year-old school teacher, said she wasn't going to get her hopes up be­cause her visa request had al­ready been turned down twice. 
"We'll see how it goes," she said. "You can't lose hope but you get fed up sometimes." 
She said she hadn't wanted to flee in a homemade boat be­cause the seas were too dan­gerous. Other people waiting said they were afraid of being taken to the U.S. Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, at the far southern tip of Cuba, where the Coast Guard has been tak­ing refugees picked up at sea since last month. 
The U.S.-Cuban agreement says Cubans detained at Guan­tanamo may not enter the United States. They can stay at the base, return to Cuba or seek refuge in a third country. 
This weekend, frustrated Cubans at the base broke out of their camps, but U.S. Marines with fixed bayonets led most of them back to their tents. A 35-year-old Cuban suf­fered a bayonet wound Saturday and was hospitalized. 
U.S. officials said he was injured accidentally. 
At the base Monday, a Cuban refugee jumped from a 40-foot cliff and died after landing on rocks, said U.S. Army Maj. Rick Thomas. He said the man was trying to reach a beach to go swimming after escaping from the refugee camp, which is sur­rounded by waist-high con­certina wire. 
More than 36,000 Cubans have been intercepted or have reached U.S. shores this year, most in the past month. 
By late Monday morning, 80 rafters were picked up by Coast Guard crews. 
The small number appears to be due to the remnants of Tropical Storm Debby. It pro­duced heavy swells Monday along the main escape route. 

North Korea offers soldier remains 
ByJ.H. YUN longstanding dispute over the solving nuclear tensions is es­Associated Press Communist North's nuclear sential to improving ties with program. the North, with which it has no PANMUNJOM, Korea Last weekend, five U.S. diplo­formal relations. Another con­
North Korea, seeking im­mats visited the North's capital dition is the return of American proved ties with the United of Pyongyang for the first time war dead. States, promised to hand over and began talks on exchanging At the North-South border vil­14 coffins containing the re­liaison offices, the first step lage of Panmunjom, 36 miles mains of American soldiers toward normalizing relations. north of Seoul, North Korean killed in the 1950-53 Korean Simultaneous talks are under soldiers are to hand over 14 War-the first remains turned way in Berlin to replace the coff'ms to U.N. honor guards. over this year. North's old-fashioned nuclear 
The transfer Tuesday occurs sites with technology less U.S. officials say the remains at a time when the two long­adaptable to weapons develop­will be sent to an army labora­time enemies are moving to ment. tory in Hawaii for evaluation improve ties in the midst of the The United States has said re-and identification. 
Catch the Action! 


Round trip bus transportation to Michigan State September 17th 
The bus leaves the Alumni/Senior Club at 9:30 am 
Tickets: $15 
On sale now at the LaFortune Info Desk 

SOPHOMORES!!!! Get Involved! 
Apply for the position of JPW Sophomore Committee Chairperson!! 
Applications available at LaFortune information desk September 12-16. Application deadline September 16!!! 
ART PRINT & POSTER SALE 
Sponsored by LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
FEATURING: 

• Prints of Master Artists 
(Including the works of Dali, Gauguin, 
Kandinsky, Miltisse, Miro, Monet, 
O'Keeffe, Picasso, Remington, Renoir, 
& Van Gogh, plus many others) 
• M. C. Escher Prints 
• Personality Posters 
• 
Rock Bands 

• 
Black & White Photography 


• Contemporary Posters 
• Framed Prints 
DATES: TODAY Thru FRIDAY 
TIME: 9:30A.M. -6:00 P.M. 
PLACE: NOTRE DAME ROOM (2nd FLOOR), LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $17! 

Tuesday, September 13, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page? 
Truce is evident, but future peace is uncertain 
1Woofthe mostpoP.ularbundles 
oncampustillsyear. 


By MARK PORUBCANSKY 
Associated Press 
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA 

Change is striking in central Bosnia six months after Croat­Muslim fighting ended: Check­points replace front lines and Croatian trucks bring beer and bananas to Muslims once short of food. 
But the anti-Serb alliance has yet to bridge differences on government structure, military strategy, the economy or refugees. 
Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic and Croatian Presi­dent Franjo Tudjman intend to meet Tuesday to try to smooth out the differences. 
"If UNPROFOR were to leave for one reason or another, I think the federation would col­lapse pretty quickly." said J.F. Carter, U.N. civil affairs chief in Vitez. The U.N. force, UNPRO­FOR, continues to act as a go­between for the tenuous al­liance. 
The agreement called for es­tablishment of eight districts, a federation government and constitution, a unified military command and eventually a con­federation with Croatia. 
But hopes that it could be used to draw Bosnian Serbs into an agreement that would end 2 1/2 years of war proved too ambitious. 
Carter is pressing to reopen factories and start bringing small numbers of Muslim and Croat workers across the lines 
NOW 

HIRING 

Food Servers & Hostess/Host 
Flexible Hours Apply Anytime 
272--3672 
Cleveland Rd. across from UP Mall 
The Observer 
the News Department is now 
accepting applications for 
Copy Editors 
Please submit a letter of intent and resume by Thursday, Sept. 15 at 5 p.m. Questions? Call Sarah Doran at 631-5323. 
where they can get reac­quainted. 
Hundreds of thousands were left uprooted by the fighting. Officials say making the federa­tion work means sending refugees -like 6 7 -year-old Muharem Smajic-back home. 
Smajic's home was in the hamlet of Grbavica, overlooking the British U.N. base in Vitez. 
"It is completely destroyed," he said sadly. "The fruit trees are gone. It's a sin to cut down fruit trees." 
Croats fled the hamlet of Bra­jkovici in Muslim-controlled ter­ritory about six miles to the north, leaving several dozen 
houses sprinkled on a hillside. Smajic and other Muslims moved in. 
Smajic said the owner of the house where he lives now was killed on the back porch, and pointed to a couple of bullet holes in the bricks. 
People are waiting to see what their leaders will do. 
"They have stopped killing each other, and that's a lot," said Safet Orucevic, mayor of the Muslim side of the divided town Mostar. "Everything else has to be directed from above." 
The federation agreement 
l

meant the Bosnian army could concentrate on only one foe, the Bosnian Serbs, and at the same time secure lines for illicit sup­
i plies of weaponry that have 1 helped it score limited gains. 1
,

All agree that Muslim and 
,

Croat military commanders 
I

have led the way into the fed­eration, pioneering accords to separate forces and forming some joint patrols. They are negotiating a unified command to direct action against the Serbs, who still control 70 per­cent of Bosnia. 
Bosnian army officers say they expect Croats to fight with them to regain Serb-held terri­tory, but some Muslims fear Croats only will be interested in fighting for traditionally Croat territory. 
The future of the U.N. force, essential to the federation's success, is in doubt. Britain, whose forces are posted in the Vitez area, says it will pull out if the United States lifts the arms embargo. 

Adislindive/y fragrant assortment ofuool, 

Now you can really clean up when you buy aselect Macintosh• Performa: For alimited time, it comes bundled with aunique new student software set available only from Apple. It's all the software you're likely to need in college. You'll g~t software that takes you through every aspect of writing papers, the only personal organizer/calendar created for your student lifestyle and the Internet Companion to help you tap into on-line 
MIJCinlosh Perjorma 636 41250, Apple' ·MacintosiJPerf0171/d 636 81250 with Color Plus 11" 1Ji11lay, Apple!Jesign" CJJ.ROM, .4/J/JV Color Plus 14"Dirpla;•,Keyboard and mOUJe. AppleDesign" Keyboardand mouse. 
research resources. Plus ClarisWorks, an intuitive, integrated package with aspreadsheet, word processor, database and more. Buy aselect Performa with CD-ROM, and you'll also get amultimedia library of essential reference tools. And now, with an Apple ,_ Computer Loan, you can own aMacintosh for less than adollar a Ap 1 • day.' It's the power every student needs. The power to be your bese p1e , 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 
Offer l!f{Jires October 17, 1994; atW!able only_ wbile sufP/ies last. ©1994,4{1Pie Cmnpuler, In~ All rigbls mm'fd Apple, /be Apple logo. Macintosh, Performa and "7be power to be your best" are regislered trademarks ofApple Compuler. Inc. AppleDesign is a trademark ofApple Computer, inc GlatirWcnis if a regisJered trademark ofGlatir eorporalion. An eshmate based on an Apple Computer Loan of$1,549.15for thePerforma 636, and $1,882.59for /be Performa 636 uilb CIJ.ROM syslem shown abot'f!. Prices and loan amounts are subjed to change uilboul no/ice. See your tVJp1e Campus ResB/er or wpre. sen/a/it~ for currmt system prtces. A5.5% loan origtnaliOnfee will be added to /be r<>iuested loan amount. 7be rnterest rale 11 t>ariab/e, based on the rommercial paper raie pius 5.35%. For the mon/h o/Augusl, 1994, the interest ra1e u>aS 10.10%, uilb an APR of11.]6%. B-Y"'' loan term uilb no pnpay­rnen.t penally 7be monlhly payment sbou:n assumes no deferment ofprincipal or interest. Sludents may defer principal payments up to 4J"'"· or until graduatWn. Deferment will change Jnur monthly payments. 7be tVJple Computer wan is subjed to r:rediJ approval. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, September 13, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Mauging Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ..•............... Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ..........•.................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eliz.abeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is r<:ported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
• LIFE AFTER FINALS 

How to beat DART: Don't take 'no' for an answer 
I was talking with one of my un­dergraduate friends in early August. At that time, she told me that she was not registered for any fall semester classes. At all. As in, here's your class schedule. There's nothing on it. Have a nice day. 
This revelation disturbed me. The first ideas about why this was so were: 
• 
She had completely lost her mind and, in an ethanol-induced stupor, missed her chance to register. 

• 
She had decided to drop out of school and join a convent. 

• 
The students had finally joined forces to overthrow the entire D.A.R.T. thing. 


(A quick note for the newcomers: 

D.A.R.T. was installed a few years ago to put the entire course registration process on a computer and to give stu­dents the convenience of being rejected for their favorite classes over a tele­phone in the comfort of their own rooms.) 
Actually, none of these options were true. My friend had finally learned an important lesson of the Notre Dame experience. How to beat the system. 
She told me that she planned to show up at the classes she wanted to take and ask the professors to allow her to enroll by filling out an exemption form. 
I scoffed at her at first. After all, how 
Paul Pearson 

many professors were going to go out of their way to let some stranger into a class that was already full to the point of overflowing? 
I spoke to her again at the start of her semester. She already had four classes and was pretty sure she was going to get into a fifth. (Alas, her dream of enrolling in Professor Morris' world-famous phi­losophy class was crushed, because the Philosophy Department has a long­standing "no exemptions, no exceptions" policy.) 
When she told me about this, I was stunned. First, I asked myself, 'Why didn't I think of that?Then, I tried to think of a way to tell her that what she did was wrong, and that if everyone did it, D.A.R.T. would become meaningless, and that she should follow standard pro­cedure from now on. 
That's where I hit a small snag. 
I started to realize that following the system often does not work. That taking 'no' for an answer often gets you nowhere. That those who break the rules often are rewarded for their cre­ativity and their ingenuity. That even at Notre Dame, 'no' can sometimes mean 'maybe' if it is said often enough. 
Now, this is not to say that I am endorsing total anarchy. I am not. Many of the rules and regulations at this place (not all, mind you, but many) are there for a valid reason, and following them will make your life happier and less stressful. In the outside world, many of the laws which govern us are there for our safety and sanity, and the pleasure you may get by breaking them is not worth the price you may have to pay. 
And, by no stretch of the imagination, am I telling you to skip D.A.R.T. and go right to the professors. My friend is ei­ther extremely lucky or a recipient of divine intervention. She could just as easily have been stuck without a cur­riculum. (So, all of you folks at the Registrar's Office can put those No. 2 pencils down and stop writing those nasty letters you plan to send to me.) 
However, there are instances when you should not take 'no' for an answer simply because the person saying it has a title. Ask them 'why not?' See if other people give you the same answer. Find out if there is a way around a 'no' that does not include hurting anybody. If 
D.A.R.T. tells you that you cannot have a class, find the professor and get her/his opinion. If a student government official says that an event cannot be held, try to find out why. My friend did not take 'no' for an answer, and her stubbornness got her a course schedule. 
Paul Pearson, '93, currently works as a writer/editor for a tri-lingual weekly newspaper in Tampa, Florida . 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Health column neglects theological reasons 
Dear Editor: I appreciated your recent Accent column "What to Eat 
r When You Don't Eat Meat." I am concerned, however that some of the nutritional information provided by the column may have been misleading, and that the column did not provide a comprehensive description of the rea­sons for which persons may choose to abstain from 
meat and dairy products. 
Good health is a tremendous gift, and the mainte­nance of a proper body weight (the desire for which motivated the vegetarianism of the Accent column) is an aspect of such health. The most fundamental reason, from a theological perspective, is our belief that we are called to a life of communion with God and all of cre­ation. Such communion excludes the violence and suf­fering that inevitably accompany a flesh-based diet 
This is particularly true in our contemporary situa­tion, in which the suffering caused by flesh-based diets has been exponentially increased by modern agricultur­

LAD/t:S ANI? G5Nrt&MCN, ''Kif?!? F!R5T"1!3 ANAPPROAOI 7HAT INV~7!3 IN TH/5 tu&U-­13e!N6 OfaJR M05Tfl?£{)0U5 
'\ Rf3q)(jf?a-aJ(<. 
Ofttl?R£Nl 

A/..THOUGH toN6·TERM q;AV!N65 ARE HAJ([) 7D PREIJ!Cl; tf/15W KNOUJ, fOR1/oETAN{i;., 7HAT&Ifi<Y WUAR 5P/3VTON!MM!JNIZATIONS 
:7AVt971i!O IN /JIA:t-KJt3/S ANI? 
7R&47MtNT C05TS.' 
al practices. Most animals raised for food today suffer in confined, abusive, disease-provoking conditions. Furthermore, maintaining and feeding livestock gener­ates severe ecological problems: livestock; production is a major cause of soil erosion, water contamination, deforestation, global climate destabilization, and the dissemination of poisonous agricultural chemicals. [See John Robbins, Diet for a New America and May All Be Fed.] 
The life for which we yearn is not one of ill-health, suffering, hunger, and environmental degradation, but 1------.....l~....:..--~~~~~~o:..::::~~"-""1 

"KIDS FIR5T"IS NCJTA MAJN­
5TREAM APPFOACH-IT'SAN UP5TRI:AM APPROACH-' 7H&l!8Vf.­
FITS tf/IU FIUAJ fOR. YeARS 7lJ 
aJM8.'"' 

---------~~~--~~---------------~-­
ACCE-NT 
Tuesday, September 13, 1994 page 9 
• MEDICAl MiNUTE 
Maximizing your metabolism 
By Joanne Pavin Accent Columnist 
As summer comes to a close the beers, brats and babes be­come a memory, well at least the babes do, those beers and brats still linger beneath the belt buckle on what used to be a waist line. Picnic potato salad and carnival caramel corn have settled below the buttocks. You seem to feel the four month vacation marathon towards that ultimate physique-has turned into the munchies madness. Don't fear. It's never too late to melt away the middle and firm up that flab. It seems everybody wants to look fit these days. Health awareness is on the rise and "diet" is usually the first word that comes to mind when the time comes to reshape that figure. So you cut back the calories, turn to fat free this, cholesterol free that, you see results and your feeling pretty good about yourself. You have been doing great and treat yourself to a day of bingeing. 
You shovel in some high fat food such as pepperoni pizza, cheese balls, or an all American burger gooing with grease. It tastes good. You're still on a diet though, tomorrow you will re­turn to your abstemious habits. Well, tomorrow comes and you slack a little and the slacking continues the days to follow. The weight comes back equal to or greater than what it was when you started and now you're not feeling like such a champ. That miracle diet has turned into miracle deprivation and the body doesn't like to be deprived. 
Deprivation comes into play when you diet improperly. Most people turn to crazy crash diets which do not include the essen­tial components necessary to maximize the metabolism. Maximizing the metabolism is the primary factor in long term weight loss. It involves modifying the diet and increasing muscle mass. 
Muscle mass is the key to the ignition when starting up metabolism. Muscle is the major caloric using tissue in the body. The more muscle mass you have, the more calories your body burns throughout the day. What happens in the case of a crash or unbalanced diet is that caloric intake is reduced to an unhealthy level, usually one pound of muscle is lost for every three pounds of fat, and as a result the metabolic rate slows down. When normal eating habits return, the metabolism is slower than before the diet began, calories are burned at a slower rate, and weight is put on faster. Now, the weight is back on and this time it will be harder to lose because the metabolism has slowed down. The solution is to reduce caloric intake by consuming foods that will maintain muscle mass, increase metabolism, and as a result, burn fat! 
How does it happen? First eliminate foods that will stimulate insulin. Insulin is the hormone in the body responsible for get­ting sugar and fat out of the blood stream and into the cells. It's otherwise known as the hunger hormone because an increased level in the blood stimulates appetite and cravings for sweets. It primarily slows down the metabolism and promotes sporadic energy highs and lows which contribute to moodiness and fatigue. Avoid sugar and caffeine which are prime insulin boost­ers and irregular, large, or late meals which slow the metabo­lism and make you hungry by skewing insulin levels. 
Once the insulin level is regulated, cutting down fat intake will be the next task. Things to know about fat is that fats make fat. Fats are more readily stored as fat. Fat slows down your metab­olism and take longer to break down molecularly because fats have stronger bonds. When crash diets are used as a means to weight loss, generally less meals are consumed and this forces the body to become better at storing fat. A body more efficient at storing fat is going to be a fatter body. Eliminate fats from the diet or reduce the intake to foods with a fat content of 25% or less. For example, 1 gram of fat equals 9 calories, a serving of graham crackers has 100 calories and 3 grams of fat. Multiplying 3 grams of fat by 9 calories gives you 27 fat calo­ries, divided by the total calories 100 gives you .27 or when cal­culated to a percent 27%. Not exactly the ultimate diet snack. 
Once fat is reduced, carbohydrates and protein will fill practi­
cally the entire diet. Carbohydrates are either starchy or non­
starchy. Starchy carbs include cereal, bread, pasta, and pota­
toes. Non starchy carbs include all fruits and vegetables. Non 
starchy carbs should fill the majority of the diet. In order to 
keep the maximum metabolism while ingesting carbohydrates, 
you must limit the starchy carb to before noon. This is because 
starchy carbs absorb water and most of us know water is a 
major contributor to a puffy body. Ingesting them early in the 
day will enable them to be burned off quickly thus lessening 
water retention and reducing total body water weight. 
This leaves us to non-starchy carbs and protein. Non-starchy 
carbs in combination with protein, foods such as eggs, fish, 
poultry, and beans, will give the best results as far as weight 
loss and increased metabolic rate. Protein must be ingested to 
ensure that muscle mass is not lost. These non-starchy/protein 
meals should be ingested at least 2-3 times after noon and 
never after nine at night. They should be about 250-350 calo­
ries and be followed by a lot of water. If a diet consisting of low 
fat, restricted starchy carbohydrates, increased amounts of non 
starchy carbohydrates and protein is followed the metabolism 
will be on its way to its maximum level. Weight training and 
exercise are two other variables that are also necessary when 
maximizing metabolism, however, they will be discussed at a 
later time. 
This type of diet will increase your energy level and regulate 
your moods by stabilizing your insulin level. So get ofT the slim 
fast, cat food diet, grapefruit diet, or the cigarette substitution 
diet and get on a healthy diet. You will be amazed at what nor­
mal food and the chemistry of your body can do. 
Ghana opens its doors to a Saint Mary's professor 
By PATTI CARSON Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Students aren't the only ones who are traveling abroad. these days. Professors are also traveling to distant lands to work, learn, and study. 
Claude Renshaw, CPA and Saint Mary's College Professor in the Department of Business Administration and Economics is one such man. Renshaw was invited by the Holy Cross Brothers to travel to Ghana, Africa this past summer to teach missionaries. 
"I taught the principles of ac­counting and business practices to priests, brothers, and sisters who were stationed in Ghana," according to Renshaw. Renshaw instructed missionar­ies because they knew little about business operations. 
"And these people were re­sponsible for running churches, schools, and hospitals. So I trained them to keep the books and the methods of running a business," he said. 
Ghana is a third world coun­try. The standard of living is not nearly like that of the United States. To demonstrate this point, the average per capi­ta income is $500 per year. In the United States it is $19,000 per year," said Renshaw. 
He said that unemployment in some sectors of Ghana's econ­omy is as high as 60-70%. The jobs and the industry are not there, so natives resort to mak­ing any money they can. People in Ghana grow crops and raise sheep and goats, but it's not enough, according to Renshaw. 
"Almost all homes are built 
on a cash basis because the 
bank isn't likely to grant large 
loans in such an uncertain 
economy," Renshaw said. 
"This is why so many houses stand half-built in Ghana," he said. The land in a given area belongs to the chief of the vil­lage. He has the right to sell the land in this area. If 

Photo courtesy of Professor Claude Renshaw The "welcome" banner shown here is indicative of the missionaries' eagerness to learn the principles of accounting and business practices. 

landowners don't build on their property within several years, the village chief has the right to sell that person's land to anoth­er, according to Renshaw. 
Renshaw said that when he entered a town or village, he was accosted by people trying to sell whatever they could get. The townspeople sold every­thing from cassette tapes to clothes to "Slow Moving Vehicle" signs. 
Since missionaries had no textbook from which to study, Renshaw constructed his own workbook. He designed the workbook, which contained 150 pages, on his computer. 
"I took 50 of these books with me on my trip. Needless to say, my luggage was quite heavy," Renshaw said. 
Renshaw said that it was an exhilarating experience to teach adults who really wanted to learn, especially in another country. The professor's stu­dents were responsive in class and very appreciative for his coming. 
Renshaw not only conducted class for seven hours per day over the course of nine days, he also monitored individual study sessions for several hours each night. Renshaw said that this was an ungraded course in which a certificate was reward­ed to the participants. 
Renshaw's students were from a variety of backgrounds. They came from Ireland, Germany, the Philippines, Holland, India, Nigeria, and the United States. The program director in Ghana allowed two representatives from each reli­gious community to attend Renshaw's classes. 
"Though the group was cul­turally diverse, communication was not a problem because English is the official language of Ghana," Renshaw said. "Each day before the class began, we celebrated mass together, which brought us even closer," he said. 
According to Renshaw, the program was a success. "I hope to go back to Ghana again next year," Renshaw said. 
BUSINESS 
page 10 Tuesday, September 13, 1994 
Entrepreneur Club NDCIBD to hold first meeting 
By MICHAEL MARTIN two students to Dublin, Prague, meets on a different night of the 
hosts Velazquez 
Business Editor and Frankfurt later this semes­week to allow all interested 
ter. These students will be pro­council members to attend. "Peace through commerce" is ficient in foreign language skills By MICHAEL MARTIN nesses in the area. The stu­the rallying call for the Notre and will build contacts for the These divisions administer a 
Business Editor dents research the company's 
Dame Council on International council's internship program,, number of programs, fromoperations and give suggestions Business Development as well as observing interna­teaching English and introduc­Arthur Velazquez of Azteca as to how to improve the enter­(NDCIBD) as it starts its seventh tional enterprises tory business concepts in devel­Foods Inc. will be the featured prise's practices. "This kind of year Wednesday night at 7 oping countries like Hondurasspeaker at the inaugural meet­consulting benefits both the p.m. in 102 Debartolo Hall. "Along with providing their and Poland to assisting localing of the Entrepreneur Club of student and the company 
expertise in specific subject companies to enter emerging
Notre Dame on Wednesday at 7 involved in a number of ways," 
"The council was founded to area, our interns perform markets through the council's p.m. in the LaFortune observed Parsons. 
promote ethics in the interna­extremely valuable functions Business Services division. 
Ballroom, according to club The club will also send a tional business community," for their employers," saidpresident Joanna Parsons. group of students to an entre­
said Anthony Franks, president Franks. "Students have a great oppor­Velazquez received a degree preneurship conference in the 
of the NDCIBD. In terms of the tunity to be a controlling factor in Electrical Engineering from Chicago area which will be students the council strives to An example of these unique in the organization," empha­Notre Dame in 1960 and plays comprised of similar clubs from provide the concrete experience function was encountered by sized Franks. "We reallyan active role in Chicago's around the nation. Along with in situations that benefit both interns in Eastern Europe. "As encourage people to followHispanic-American community these will be a Business Plan the student and the company. much as they need to develop their interests. There is a lot of as well as taking care of Azteca Contest, with the plans judged their infrastructure, they first work that can be done." 
Foods, according to Parsons. by a committee of professors Last summer the council sent need to build their economies"His speech will probably be and businesspeople. 
45 interns abroad to work in with small businesses. Our All majors are welcome andof a motivational type, focusing The club funds all of its activ­
places as varied as Russia and interns helped the entrepre­encouraged to come. The spe­on life after college," said ities through various fundrais­Singapore along with a number neurs take into account the eth­cial skills that each differentParsons. She also predicted an ing activities that go on of other locales. A majority of ical dimension of their busi­major brings broadens both the emphasis on the varied types of throughout the year. One of these internships were funded nesses," said Franks. Council itself and its ability toskills needed in business envi­these is the Student Discount directly through the NDCIBD, promote commerce and ethics
ronments. Card, issued jointly by the club 
Franks said, adding that a Wednesday's large general abroad.
The Entrepreneur Club start­and Student Government. This number of NDCIBD-funded pro­meeting of the NDCIBD will beed in two years ago as a way to card will be out soon and is grams were first-time interns followed by regular meetings of "We are not just a business get students thinking entrpre­expected to be very successful, 
As for the upcoming summer, its seven divisions: the Citizens major's organization. We seekneurially, according to Parsons. based on its peformance last 
Franks predicted that there Democracy Corps, Business to fill a void in students' under­It has since grown to encom­year. 
would be around 75 internships Services, Internships, standing by making them more pass a variety of activities both On average, general meetings available, judging from contacts Operations Management, globally aware in business and on this campus and outside the are held once a month, accord­the council has already made Finance, and Axis (the organi­in ethics," Franks said. "The 
area. ing to Parsons. Every other 
and expects to make zation's newsletter). Council is a good way to meetOne of the activities that the month speakers are invited to 
people as well as being a

club sponsors is the formation the meetings to give talks on a 
In a related program, the A student does not have to chance to really explore issuesof Student Advisory Boards that variety of issues in today's 
NDCIBD will be sending "busi­join one division exclusively, of interest in the internationalwork in depth with small busi-business world. 
ness delegations" comprised of emphasized Franks. Each business world." 
Venezuela to sell Report questions state companies B-2 cost controls 
By ED McCULLOUGH privatized since he took office. By JOHN DIAMOND News of the report surfaced a Associated Press The planned sale of the airline Associated Press day before the Senate is 
Aeropostal failed last May expected to pass and send to President Clinton a 1995
CARACAS, Venezuela because potential buyers WASHINGTON In a wide-ranging plan to decided the $62 million price A congressional report ques­defense bill that authorizes 
boost the economy, the govern­tag was too high, perhaps tions whether the Pentagon can $125 million to study the buy 20 B-2 Stealth bombers nation's future bomber needs
ment will try to sell money-los­intentionally so. 
within a government-imposed and to keep B-2 subcontractors
ing state companies, hike taxes Caldera backers say he had and balance the budget, to concentrate on more press­$44 billion cost ceiling. going. Supporters of the B-2 
The report by the General fought for inclusion of thatFinance Minister Julio Sosa ing matters. The economy 
Rodrigue said Monday. already was in recession, and Accounting Office, an investiga­money to keep open the possi­
Speaking before several hun­then the banking system nearly tive arm of Congress, cited bility of buying more B-2s than dred business and political collapsed. If the government problems in the bat-winged the 20 on order. leaders, Sosa projected the fis­had not taken over eight of the airplane's radar-evading tech­
nology, its own terrain-avoid­Congress last year voted tocal deficit will shrink to 2.5 top 20 banks, they might have 
failed altogether. ance radar, and its computer cap the B-2 program at 20 air­
percent of gross domestic 
software as well as testing craft and mandated a cost ceil­
product this year, and be elimi­Sosa said currency controls nated in 1995. Inflation sup­would be lifted "in the shortest delays. These threaten to raise ing of $44.4 billion. To date, posedly would be halved to period possible," though he did production costs for the 20 the Air Force has accepted two 
not set a target date. bombers ordered by the production models of the B-2. 
about 30 percent by then. 
Pentagon, the report conclud­
Privatizations of state hotels, Government officials recently The exotic shape of the B-2
race tracks, electric utilities, a have said Central Bank ed. 
-it looks like a flying wing ­

steel mill, an aluminum plant, reserves were increasing and mines and forests may net $3 the bolivar holding tenuously Dated Sept. 8, the report has and its skin of radar-evading billion during the next 15 at 170 per U.S. dollar. Capital not yet been released. Defense composite materials combined months, he said. Increased rev­flight and devaluation were the Week, a newspaper that covers with the development of this 
defense issues, reported the technology contributed to theenue would come from luxury, main reasons for imposing the 
income and sales taxes. controls. GAO's findings in Monday's high price of the bomber, issue. which is built in Southern
Sosa Indicated the govern­Sosa's speech at the Central ment plans to act on two other 'There is uncertainty about California by Northrop Bank was the government's economic weak spots: gasoline whether the Air Force will be Grumman Corp. 
able to complete B-2 acquisi­
first real outline of its econom­subsidies estimated to cost the tion within the cost limitation," A key area of concern is the
ic policy since President Rafael cash-strapped government Caldera took office last Feb. 2. nearly $500 million a year, and the GAO concluded. so-called radar cross section, 
It was broadcast live nation­the pro-labor social security "Significant development, test­or RCS, of the B.:2. The cross ing, production and modifica­section measures the degree to
wide. law. 
The approach seems decid­Gas at the pump sells for less tion efforts are required before which the B-2 is at all the 20 operational aircraft detectable by radar. The GAO
edly free-market. Until now, than 15 cents a gallon. That's 
Caldera -a one-time populist well below production costs meet their final performance noted that relatively minor who was president from 1969-and below the price Venezuela configuration." changes in the bomber's con­
figuration can affect its radar

7 4 -had seemed to prefer would earn by selling it The Defense Department's profile, raising concerns about
state intervention in the coun­abroad. Hiking it abruptly risks try's economy. riots, as happened in 1989. strategic and space systems whether Northrop Grumman director, George Schneiter, can produce a consistent prod­
He imposed foreign exchange Social security legislation controls last June; maintained that requires businesses to set responded that while there uct. price controls on food and aside at least one month's pay remains significant work on the Other problems include medicine; and suspended con­per year per employee prompts B-2 program, close oversight glitches in the airplane's radar 
stitutional liberties including many businesses to hire as few "will ensure that the B-2 pro­system that enables it to fly the right to do business and employees as possible, at a gram is completed within the low, even in mountainous own private property. time the jobless rate is estimat­congressionally mandated cost areas, and with the plane's 
No state company has been ed at nine to 13 percent. ceiling." defensive systems. 
l I I 
l ­


Tuesday, September 13, 1994 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 11 
Eagles, Cunningham hang on to bury the Bears, 30-22 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

It was vintage Randall at the Vet, and the Philadelphia Eagles needed all of it. 
Randall Cunningham picked apart Chicago's defense Monday night, passing for 311 yards and three touchdowns as Philadelphia opened a 30-point lead and held on to beat the Chicago Bears 30-22. 
Cunningham threw for 250 yards in the opening half, with two touchdown passes to Calvin Williams and one to Maurice Johnson. 
And he never cooled off. Cunningham finished 24-of-35 in his 11th career 300-yard passing effort and the first time he has done it in successive games; he had 344 yards in a loss to the New York Giants last week. 
Cunningham wasn't the only star on a night when the Eagles did little wrong until the fourth quarter before a raucous crowd of 64,890 at Veterans Stadium. Williams had all six of his receptions in the first half for 85 yards, and Fred Barnett 
added eight catches for 102 yard. 
The defense, meanwhile, shackled the Bears early, hold­ing them to 70 yards and three first downs in the first 30 min­utes. By the time the Bears got their offense in gear, they had to fight back from a 30-0 deficit in the fourth quarter. 
Chicago scored on a 22-yard pass from Erik Kramer to Curtis Conway with 12:15 remaining, an 85-yarder to Conway with 5:53 to go ­Conway also caught a 2-point conversion-and a 16-yarder to Marv Cook with 3:35 to go. 
But then Cunningham con­nected on two passes on Philadelphia's final possession, enabling the Eagles to run out the clock. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTS CHEAP!!!! Buy & sell used books at the only hip place in town 10-6M·S/9-3Sun PANDORA'S BOOKS NO ave & Howard St 233-2342 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND­HUFFY 3·SP LADY'S BIKE • BUR· GANDY. CALL SGT. GATTRELL 1· 8340 
FOUND: A watch. Call Tom x2212 
WANTED 
ARE YOU READY FOR A HEAV· ENLY EXPERIENCE? BECOME PART OF AN INTER· ESTING, CHALLENGING RETAIL OPERATION. PREVIOUS FOOD SERVICE EXPERIENCE HELP· FUL. IMMEDIATE OPENING. HOURS 1:30-6:30 MONDAY THRU FRIDAY AND EVERY OTHER SATURDAY 8:30·2:00. APPLY IN PERSON AT HEAVEN· L Y HAM, 2307 EDISON BETWEEN 8:30·10:00 OR 
2:()().5:00. 
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS & GO FREE! BEST TRIPS & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT RESUME EXPERIENCE! 1·800· 678·63861 
PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE TAKING PHYSICAL INVENTO· RIES. WORK AROUND YOUR SCHEDULE. DAYS AND/OR WEEKENDS. $5.25 PER HOUR CALL 272·0408 CLANCY INVEN· TORY SERVICES 
RESORT JOBS· Earn to $12/hr. + tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, & more. Tropical & Mountain destina· lions worldwide. Call (206)632..0150 ext. R55841 
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO· MOTE SPRING BREAK TO JAMAICA, CANCUN. BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE TRAVEUCOMMISSIONS! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1·800·426·7710. 
ASSISTANT SWIM COACHES for local age group team. Afternoon and/or evening hours, various days of the week. 
Call 289·SWIM. 
ASAP I need a dependable weekend sitter for a 1 year old. References a plus. Call 232-5261 leave a message. 
NEEDED: 1 roommate for OC apt call 273-5299 thnx 
PART TIME WAREHOUSE WORK 
Accepting applications for part· time order fillers and stockers. Approximately 20-25 hrs weekly. Apply at Richmond Master Dist. 4202 Technology Dr. (west on Cleveland Rd to Technology Dr.), or call Chris at 239..0310. 
MACRI'S DELl • BOTH LOCA· TIONS Now hiring all positions. Good starting pay plus many benefits and Incentives including bonus pay and extra vacation days. 214 Niles Ave. 282-1351, 277-7273 Grape Rd. 
Apply within. 
"***WANTED**** Knott Hall needs an interhall foot· ball coach. Call Alise NOW at 4988 if you are interested. 
Disappionted senior requires 4 year tuition refund. Call James: 4·2238 •••coACH'S SPORTS BAR""" Now hiring AII·Star Cooks and Servers for part time work. Weekends and a positive attitude a must. Apply in person. 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: Are you interested in making $8,000 next summer while manag· ing and operating your own busi· ness? Triple 'A' Student Painters seeks managers to fill Ml and IN regions. No exp. necessary. Great resume builder. Contact Michael Willis at x2040 or 1·8()().543-3792. 
HELP WANTED: ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY NEWS SERVICES, 
232·3205 OR 288-9361. 
WANTED: RESPONSIBLE, KID· LOVING STUDENT WITH CAR TO BABYSIT 2 CHILDREN AGES 4 &6 IN MY HOME. 2·3 DAYS PER WEEK FROM 2·6. PLEASE CALL 277·5786. 
SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring for many positions for winter quarter. Over 15,000 openings! For more information call: (206)634..Q469 ext. V55841 
National Park Jobs -Over 25,000 openings! (including hotel staff, tour guides, etc.) Benefits & bonuses! Apply now for best positions. Call: 1·206-545·4804 ext. N55841 
SPRING BREAK '95·SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!II Student Travel Services is now hir· ing campus representatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona and Panama City Beach. Call 1· 800-648-4849. 
WANTED: TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. JILL 273·6942 
Desperately need 1-3 GA's for Air 
Force, Navy or BYU. Please call 
Ann@ x4544. 
SOCCER REFEREES! Students needed to referee soccer games for southside elementary school (Grades 5·8), located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. All games scheduled between 4 and 5:30pm, Monday-Friday, Sept. 9·0ct29. $15·$20 per game. Must have referee uniform. Call 291-4200 or 291·8731. 
I need a couch (271·9223) 
FOR RENT 
ROOMMATE needed. Female pre!. Oak Hill Condo. Own room & bath. Call 273-4485. 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, 
NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED 
BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO 
NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE 
OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­
773-2034 
ROOMMATE NEEDED TO SHARE HOME ON ANGELA BLVD. 30 YDS FROM CAMPUS. $250 MONTH UTILITIES WASHER­DRYER INCLUDED. 232·2595 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
PRIVATE HOMES· ND/SMC 
EVENTS. 
219·291·7153. 
1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR 
RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS 
PROPERTIES. 272·6306 
FOR SALE 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR 
FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO 
SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV· 
ERYCALL: 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 
272·5959. 

87 HONDA CIVIC Wagon, 4WDr., Manual ($3800). Call631-5411 
SMC CLASS RING PETITE W/ DIAMOND 10KGOLD MAKE AN OFFER 273-6205 
Macintosh LC·2 (4-80) 
14" BW monitor purchased spring 1993 $900 or closest offer 
Robbie 273-9213 
CHAIRS, BIKE, APPLE IIC W/ PRINTER, MODEM ECT.272-6306 
FOR SALE: SMITH CORONA PWP 3850 PER· SONAL WORD PROCESSOR WITH SCREEN. PAID $400. SELL FOR $200. CALL 272-3753 AFTER 7 PM OR LV. MESSAGE & WILL CALLBACK. 
BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS 
CALL COLIN AT 273·6205 
TICKETS 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR ALL GAMES. 
CALL BOB 219·232·5297. 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & 
STANFORD! X2174. 
A LOCAL BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2 PAIRS OF GA SEASON TICK· ETS. 272·7233. 
ST. JUDE, WANT 2·4 SEASON OR INDIVIDUAL GA TIX. 312·404-4903 DAN. 
WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. CALL 800-922·2327 JANET. 
NO VS FSU NOV. 12, CITRUS 
BOWL 

FAN NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE 
CALL 407·246·1879. MAY CALL 
COLLECT. 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 
272·6551 
WANTED: 
2-4 GA Purdue Tickets. $100 per 
ticket. 515·965·0512 
Need tix: 5 BYU G.A'S; 4 STAN· 
FORD G.A'S; 2 STANFORD 
STUD.--GALL JOE @X2765 
STANFORD GA'S NEED 4. 
MATT 257·0564 
Desperately Need 
4 NAVY Ticketslll 
$ $ $ $ 
Please Call Daniella 
at x2537 
DESPERATELY SEEKING GAs for PURDUE and NAVY. PLEASE HELP -$$$. Call Alisa -634·4355. 
Need 1 stud or GA for PERDU 
$$Please call JULIE x2534$$ 
DESPARATELY NEEDED: 
STUDENT OR GA'S FOR 
STANFORD, PURDUE, NAVY 
AND A.F.. CALL RACH 233·1761 
NEED 3 BYU GA TIX & 1 STUD 
BYU call1722 if you have them 
I NEED 2 Purdue GAs II 
Will pay big $$$ 
Please call Amy 4·3427 
I NEED STANFORD TICKETS. PLEASEII X3460AARON 
NEED STANFORD GA's BADLY. 
HAVE 2 NAVY TIX. 
Will trade or buy. Bryan x1190 
STUDENT AND GAS NEEDED 
FOR BYU AND GAS FOR AF. 
PLEASE! CALL JEANNE AT 
X2478. 

NEED LOTS OF BYU TIX HAVE AIR FORCE & PURDUE TIX. CALL ERIN 4015. 
Looking to trade 2 Navy GA's for 2 Stanford GA's. Kristen X4838 or (715)341-0627. 
HAVE 2 NAVY GA's to trade for 2 STAN GA's +CASH. Also NEED 1 FSU GA. BIG $$$$$$$ Call Dave #3494 
NEED 1 PURDUE stu. or GA tick· et.Call BRAD x1999. 
DESPERATE!II Need 2 Stanford GA's for out-of-town relatives. Willing to pay $$$. Call X4820 
Angry airmen need Air Force GA's. Serve your country. Call x4816. 
I need 2 BYU GAs. Will pay Big $$$. 

Please call Laura: 284-4328. 
I need 4 GAs lor any home game BIG $$. Ruth x2359 
HELP! I need 2 TIX to the Stanford Gamel Call Patty at 1-800-697 ·9141, leave message. 
SEEKING TO BUY TWO OR FOUR GA TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL GAMES. CALL BILL HOGAN, DURING DAY AT OFFICE AT 
(217) 782·6995, AFTER 10 PM AT (217)698·9267. 
I NEED 1 BYU student ticket. 
Please call KELLY x4028 
Need one G.A. Ticket for PURDUE 
Call X3357 
NEEDED: 

TICKETS FOR THE BC GAME. 
CALL LIZ AT 284·5012. 
I NEED 2 G.A. TIX FOR PURDUE 
CALL grace x4290 
WANTED: 2 AF GA'S 
4-2628 ·MESSAGE 

SEATTLE A TTY'S WILL PAY TOP $FOR 2 STANFORD G.A.S (219) 289·3412 
NEED 2 BYU GA'S AND 4 PUR· 
DUE GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$$ 
call Brian@ X1739 

WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY 
BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR 
KATE@ 271·0224 

2 BYU GA'S ARE NEEDED!! 
CALL NICOLE@ 1287. 
DESPERATELY NEED 
4 Purdue GA's 
OR new family willing to adopt 
a soon-to-be disowned son 
Call Troy 255·1740 
WANTED: 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME FOR GRANDPARENTS! X2911 
WANTED 3 GA EITHER NO VS 
PUR, STAN, BYU CALL COL 215­
355·7131 

NO FAMILY REUNION needs 
Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call 
517·332·4719. 

seeking purdue and be ga's 
karenx3792 

TO TRADE • 8 (6 TOGETHER) STANFORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR ED BULLEtT 800·786-8723. 
Have pairs of Stanford and Airforce GA's willing to trade for Michigan or Fl. State GAs!! I Contact x4097 asap. 
Need 2 BYU GA tix. Need 3 Stanford STD. tix. Need 2·6 Stanford GA tix. I'm in some serious NEED so please call Rachael at x4667. Will pay BIG MONEY. 
NEED 1 MICH. 4 PUR., 
+ 2 STAN. STUD TIX. CALL 234-8958. 
Need 2 Navy GA's Call Burke x1699 

Will trade 4 BYU GA's for 4 Stanford GA's. Call Scott (NO 91) @ (201)402·9372 
I Need 1 Stanford student ticket. Call Dan x3883 
Need 2 Michigan stud. tickets. Call Wade x3883 

$$$$$$$$$$$ Parents & Iii sis R flying In for the STANFORD GAME. Need 2-4 GA'sl Please Call Dayne 273-4412 $$$$$$$$$$$ 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
@ 

Need 2 GA's lor BYU. Please call . Katie 282-1603 
Need 4 Navy Ga's David x3406 
NEED 2 GAs TO PURDUE CALLx3213 

••• ATTENTION ALL VERY ••• •• COMPASSIONATE FEMALES­Desperately need 1 Stud. Tix for HTH at Purdue and BYU gameslll Please call Steve x3213 
*****HELPIII**** 

Plane tickets are bought, the hotel room reserved... all I need is 2 BYU GA'sl Willing to pay $$$ ... call Jen atX4820 
I HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S. WILL TRADE FOR 2 FLA.ST. TIX. CALL TED 256·5727 
I NEED BYU GA'S, BYU STD'S, AND 2 STANFORD GA'S. MIKE X-3767. 
I NEED STANFORD GA'S 1111 PLEASE, PLEASE CALL 288·2589 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL SUZV AT 4072 
$$$$$ 

• NEED 2 Stanford and 2 Purdue • GA'sll Please call4-1330. $$$$$ 
HAVE 2 NAVY GA'SI NEED 1 STAN & 1 A.F. GA WILL TRADE OR BUYI CALL MARK 3382 

I NEED 3 PURDUE GAs· x4872 
We still have 4 married student tick· et booklets for sale (NO id required!). Will sell whole booklet or just individual games. Call Sean@ x 1101. 
I NEED PURDUE TIXI SANDY x4638 

I need 1 BYU GA and 1 AIR FORCE GA. Have 2 NAVY GA's to sell I trade. Mike 273·8925 
FOR SALE: 2 STD ticket booklets (or just Individual games) and 2 Married Student booklets (or just games) No ID required. Call Sean at634 -1101 
I need 2 Purdue GAs for my par· ents. Name your price. Call Jim at 289·5486. 
Need GAs Any Home Game 4·3703 
$$$Wanted: Two Stanford & 

B.Y.U. G.A.'s. If you have the tks., I have the cash.$$$ Call Eric 4073. 
For Sale: Ftbl student booklet. Must sell. Call 4·2689 
I HAVE 4 PU AND 4 NAVY GA TIX. NEED TO TRADE FOR STANFORD TIX. 634-1728. 
WANTED: ONE PURDUE TICKET, STUD. OR G.A. CALL TODD: 273-5352 
I NEED FOUR TICKETS TO THE STANFORD GAME ON OCTOBER 
1: CALL B. J. AT 1244. 
WILL TRADE 2 STAN FOR 2 FSU CALL KAREN X4290 
NEED GA'S TO ALL HOME GAMES. CALL JOE AT 2712. 
PERSONAL 
VETERANS: NEED MONEY FOR SCHOOL? JOIN THE INDIANA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. GOOD LEADERSHIP POSITIONS AVAIL· ABLE NOW. CALL MAJOR TIM WARRICK (219) 234-9258. 
FRESHMEN-SOPHOMORES: LEARN LEADERSHIP AND EARN MONEY FOR SCHOOL. INDIANA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. CALL MAJOR TIM WARRICK (219) 
234·9258. 
PRAY TO ST. JUDE, PATRON OF IMPOSSIBLE CAUSES. 
GO ACROSS CAMPUS UNDER A GROOVY TIE-DYED WOOD· STUCK UMBRELLA. $13.00 + S&H. 
CALL 1·800·259·1250 TO ORDER. 
$5.50 HAIRCUT 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
233-4767 
DJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJ 
The Alumni-Senior Club is looking for a OJ to work busy nights, espe· cially football weekends. Please pick up an application at the Student Activities office and return it by Friday, Sept. 16. 
Fun WOrk-iJOOd tipsl 
DJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJ 
Happy Early Birthday Matt II -jeni 
Student Activities is now hiring SOUND TECHS.-apply at 315 LaFortune by Friday 9/16. 
HI CHAVEZ· now you're famous! 
WANTED: PHEMALE PHISHEADS PHOLLOW PHISH PHALL BREAK. SHOWS 10/25·27. CALL MATT@277-9926;SLIM@ 271-9676 
WANT CASH FOR USED OR 
UNWANTED BOOKS? 
CALLX1458 
hey Suz, make sure you duck going ou1the door II 
that's okay, Taryn and I didn't want 
to see the game anyway. 
way to use the Galvin spotlight, K 
andT 
Anne,Shannon,Erin,Layne, 
Jackie, Bicky, Eve, Meghan...sorry, 
mental block:( 
GOOD LUCK BP BLITZ II 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 13, 1994 
Dolphins' defense decimated by injuries 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. 

Injuries in the secondary which decimated the Miami Dolphins at the end of last sea­son, threaten to hinder this year's playoff bid as well. 
Free safety Gene Atkins and cornerback Frankie Smith were hurt in the 24-14 victory at Green Bay, and they'll likely miss Sunday's game against the New York Jets. 
Smith was filling in for Troy Vincent, sidelined by a sore knee that may bother him all year. 
Injuries to defensive backs plagued the Dolphins late last season, when they allowed 125 points in the final three games, lost them all and missed the playoffs. 
Now Miami is 2-0 and poised to battle the Jets (also 2-0) for first place in the AFC East. Thinning ranks in the sec­ondary only heighten the Dolphins' desire to sign free­agent cornerback Deion Sanders. 
"We would love to have him," coach Don Shula said Monday. "That hasn't changed." 
Sanders' agent hasn't talked with the Dolphins recently, Miami general manager Eddie Jones said. Sanders might choose a team this week if the baseball season is canceled as expected. 
Miami's injury report wasn't limited to the secondary. Rookie running back Irving Spikes, who came off the bench to gain 70 yards in 13 carries at Green Bay, may miss the Jets' game with a strained right medial collateral ligament suf­fered on his final carry Sunday. "He's week to week," Shula said. "He doesn't look good for this week. Hopefully he'll be ready to resume playing after 
that." 
In Spikes' absence, veteran 
Mark Higgs likely will see 
action for the first time this 
season. 
Atkins strained his right ham­string in the first quarter and )eft at halftime, and his status also is week to week. Smith, who earned praise for his per-

WhiM F~nd 1~11, h• coll«i for Help. But th~ only onttJ fhttr.~ ~ 


Fnend coli«! lor Httlp again~ hvl Confusion cam~ inJit!Od. 
+
AI loll H.lp C0/71r4 ond Htllp ll'lfiW w!Jot to do. In nm.s of~ tNfl you H.!pf Ifnot. l.orn loci Cnm Fim Aitl ""'-you -t­
or caN your local chapl.r. 
America.nRedCross+ 

formance at Green Bay, tore right knee cartilage and may require surgery. 
"Sometimes it's like a domino effect," cornerback J.B. Brown said of the injuries. "There's no explanation for it. You've got to go with whomever you have." 
Vincent hopes to play against the Jets. The third-year pro is rebounding from reconstructive knee surgery last December, and he may be in and out of the lineup much of the season. 
"He has come along faster than most guys would have, so having him is a bonus," de­fense coach Tom Olivadotti said. ''I'd like to have him in there all the time, but it doesn't seem it's going to be that way." 
The replacement for Vincent and Smith would be Muhammad Oliver, Darrell Malone or Tyrone Braxton. 
"Any time you get more than one player injured at a position, it gets into depth problems," Shula said. 
Atkins would be replaced by Braxton or Chris Green. 
Middle linebacker Dwight Hollier. who missed Miami's first two games with a knee in­jury, is expected to return to practice this week. If he's un­able to play against New York, Bryan Cox will remain at mid­dle linebacker. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program 
in 


Wildcats ready to comeback 
By MIKE EMBRY 
Associated Press 

LEXINGTON,Ky. Kentucky is trying to forget about the 73-7 thrashing from No. 1 Florida while preparing for this weekend's game 
"We really got embarrassed and there's nothing we can do about it," defensive tackle Kurt Supe said Monday about Saturday's loss to Florida. "We have to put it behind us. We're 1-1 and still have a chance for a great season." 
Kentucky, which entertains Indiana on Saturday night, will have to get over the school's worst setback in modern his­tory. Only losses to St. Louis (82-0) in 1905 and Centre (67­
0) in 1894 rank ahead in point margins. 
"I think we're focused now and know what we have to do," said quarterback Antonio O'Ferral, who completed 12-of­29 passes for 124 yards and one touchdown against the Gators. 
The Wildcats, as the score clearly indicates, were domi­nated by Florida in every phase of the game -first downs (29-11), rushing yards (314-68) and passing yards (278-136). 
"We have to find a threat. Period." O'Ferral said of Kentucky's lame offense. "We 
have to find somebody as a threat." 
Sophomore running back Moe Williams, the Southeastern Conference's leading returning rusher, ran for only 22 yards on seven carries while backups Daymon Carter had eight yards on five carries and Donnell Gordon picked up two on two rushes. 
About the only bright spot on offense was the play of wing­back Isaac Curtis III, who caught five passes for 77 yards and one TD. 
Kentucky coach Bill Curry thought that the squad may have worked too hard prepar­ing for Florida after taking an emotional, season-opening 20­14 victory over Louisville. 
"We worked extremely hard last week, more than we nor­mally would, because I felt it was a way to get our players' heads out of the clouds," he said. "But I don't think we suc­ceeded in getting our heads out of the clouds. I think that was obvious. I think that we worked so hard and long that we were leg weary at the beginning of Saturday's game." 
Curtis agreed that his team­mates wore down fast. 
"I believe everyone's legs got tired," he said. "Going into the game, I think everybody was excited to play." 
And Florida didn't help mat­ters. 
"We were up against a team that was great that day," said Curry. "They made no mis­takes. When Florida does not turn the ball over, they're going to beat an awful lot of people." 
Curry doesn't want to lose sight of the victory over Louisville. 
"We have a good football team," he said. "We've already proven that this year and not some other time. " 

DUBLIN, IRELAND JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD 
INFORMATION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13,1994 6:30P.M. 129 DEBARTOLO 
Application Deadline December 1, 1994 


SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 9:00AM OUTPOST SPORTS 
(3602 N. GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA, IN 259-1000 
;;JO vn ;;JO \U'4~LUU11'U..t \:iUALU!i) ROSTERS OF NO MORE THAN 10 8 TEAM DOUBLE ELIMINATION TEAMS MUST REGISTER INADVANCE AT RECSPORTS FIRST 8 TEAMS TO REGISTER WILL PLAY $10.00 ENTRY FEE $5.00 PER PERSON FOR INSURANCE TRANSPORTATION WILL NOT BE PROVIDED 
I ' 

ALL EQUIPMENT WILL BE PROVIDED BY ROLLERBLADEI 
Rz-c-~ -----631-6100 J 
-~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 13, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
Baseball season likely over 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Three days after the deadline passed to cancel what's left of the season, baseball players and owners weren't talking to each other. 
Acting commissioner Bud Selig, who on Friday allowed his deadline to pass, said Sunday there was a possibility talks would restart. 
"Let's hope so," the Brewers owner said in a telephone in­terview from his home in Milwaukee. "There isn't any­thing scheduled right now." 
But nothing occurred by midafternoon. The players' ex­ecutive board was scheduled to meet in the early evening. Owners on the executive coun­cil and the player relations committee spoke during a tele­phone conference call and re­ceived an update of the week­end's events. 
In Washington, the House Judiciary Committee an­nounced that its economic and commercial law subcommittee will hold a hearing Sept. 22 on baseball's antitrust exemption. 
Several bills have been intro­duced this year to strip the sport of its exemption but the only one that came to a vote was defeated in June by the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
Selig, who went to the Green Bay Packers' game on Sunday, said he will make an an­nouncement about the season by Wednesday evening. Officials on both sides expect him to make the stunning an­nouncement that the World Series won't be played for the first time since 1904. 
"Tomorrow there will be a lot of internal meetings," he said. 
WISH TO JOIN THE CATHOLIC CHURCH?
GO REALLY IRISH.' 

LOOKING FORA PARISH SETTING, BUT DON'T WANT TO GO OFF CAMPUS? 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 

IS A WEEK DAY EVENING BETTER WITH 
Sept. 13 7:00p.m. Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Notre Dame Campus 
Students discuss study at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland. 

Call Sacred Heart Parish at 
Everyone welcome! 

631-7508 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

''O:n.. 'The Ca.mp-....:~.s'' 
phone: 631-6316 
Our Mlx Of Muffic Is Bi~er &Better Th
store hours: Mon-Sat: 9a.m.-5p.m. 
·------------------· 
! 2.00 OFF! 
: I COMPACT: I 
I I 
! DISC! ! 
I I I NO LIMm You Must Present Coupon For Sale Price I 
·------------------· 
Sept 14 

YOUR SCHEDULE? 7:00p.m. 
Then,
Game Room 

Sacred Heart Parish
Haggar 

in the Crypt on camp!ls is for you!!! 
Saint Mary's Campus For the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults. 
Boston Red Sox chief executive officer John Harrington said when he left New York on Saturday that he intended to return at the start of the week. Harrington and Colorado Rockies chairman Jerry McMorris were involved in ef­forts to create a compromise last week, but Selig personally entered the talks for the first time Friday and rejected the players' new proposal. 
"If there's any reason, I'll be back there fairly quickly," Selig said. "We'll continue to try if there is any vestige of hope left." 
Union head Donald Fehr spent Sunday afternoon at his office, then returned home to subur­ban Westchester. Management negotiator Richard Ravitch, who attended the U.S. Open tennis tournament Saturday, spent Sunday at his home, also in Westchester. 
"Nothing has happened as far as I know," Fehr said. "We haven't heard from anybody." 
The strike entered its 32nd day today, matching the 1990 lockout as baseball's second­longest stoppage behind the 50­day strike of 1981. 
Talks broke off Friday, with officials on both sides wonder­ing why owners didn't take the framework the union proposed and counter with different numbers. Players proposed a 1 1/2 percent revenue "tax" on the top 16 teams by revenue and a 1 1/2 percent payroll "tax" on the top 16 teams by payroll. 
Ever Before...Check It Ou~ 
·­

-----·----~-­
r-------------------~·.. 
page 14 Tuesday, September 13, 1994 
Irish hoop 

....,;_._ 
schedule set 
Associated Press 

~~!~MO?~~''''J!Hi0!'&i;• 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. Three trips to the West Coast
The Saint Mary's soccer 
and home again against peren­

team<will fac~r~rr against 
nial powers Duke, Indiana and

Anderson University at 4:00 
Kentucky are included in a 27­p.m. this aftetJjoon in their game 1994-95 men's basket­first home game. This will be 

ball schedule announced by

the first time .th~y have ~ver 
played ' University. Notre Dame on Monday. Still, the · excited. Coach John MacLeod's team "We are confident will face nine teams that were 
about this in last year's NCAA tournament 
sop~'>,more· and three that played in the National Invitation Tournament. The Irish will play 16 home games at the Joyce Center, starting with a Nov. 27 visit by Valparaiso. Indiana visits the Irish Nov. 29. 
Notre Dame then makes its first road trip to the West Coast, facing San Diego on Dec. 3 and Loyola Marymount on Dec. 5. Notre Dame returns to the West Coast to play Oregon State on Dec. 27 in the Far West Classic at Portland, Ore. Oregon and George Washington are also in the tournament with the third place and championship games scheduled Dec. 28. 


r7:30 TONIGHT! J NOTRE DAME 
vs. PURDUE 


JOYCE ATHLETIC CENTER -MAIN ARENA 
ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 
-· 
Restaurant 

Located on the North Side of Sam's Club in Willshire Plaza, Mishawaka 
Full Chinese menu plus a selection of Mo~~n11-8 Japanese and Korean appetizers. Clo~:J~~~day 
All food cooked in 

r-------------,
HeartHealthyCanolaOil 1 15% OFF 1 
NoMSG! 1 1 Dine,In or Carry Out I When you show your I 
273--4290 : STUDENT ID : -mr: c. II-liiL_~~~~~~~~:~·-J 

At Kinko's, your branch office, you can work faster, look bigger and outperform your competition. At Notre Dame, see the volleyball team outperform its competition at 7:30 tonight when it goes for its 10th straight win against Purdue. 



•)·) 'ol, ~o(· ._, •
•, • ·• •. • ,T 

Tuesday, September 13, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
FEEL Sc,...l<.., Fo!!. THt. ""Pt>o~ L..nr~E. ~>V1··· 
l 


BOB, I'Ll '<ANK 
THE CAT OFF OF RATBERT'S 
1-\E~D AND 
YOU STOMP 
ON IT' 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 35 Passage 63 Felipe, Jesus or 37 Cain's nephew 
Matty

1 Yin's partner 38 Behave 
64 Former Mormon 5 Toy gun ammo 

chief-Taft
42 Clam supper 

9 Rift Benson 
14-patriae 43 Sacred song 65Shipping(patriotism) 440netime amount 15 Together, in medicinal herb 66 Desiresmusic 
45 German donkey 
67-BienPhu

16 "It-Be You" 46 Elan (1954 battle 17 Parisian entree 47 Charitable site)18 Vatican City 
foundations,

monetary unit 
e.g.19 Down Under 
49 Chinese ideal 

soldier DOWN 
51 Part of a wagon 

20 1954 Hitchcock train 1 Croquet locale hit 52 Merit award 2 French call for 23 Bonny one help
59 Use 25 Beautify 60 Candy brand 
24 Singer Acuff 
3-cloudin the sky 

28 Barley bristle 61 Paint unskillfully 4 Edsel feature 
30 Buddy 62Mesa­34 Spanish wave National Park 5 Soft leather 6 Farewell 
7 Result of tummy 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
rubbing? 8 Ore layer 9 Maria Rosario 
Pilar Martinez 10 Jacks-of-all­trades 11 Wood trimmer 
.:+::.j.:+:...j 12 Weekly World News rival 13 Beaded shoe, for short 
,..._:,'-f-'-+'-'-f 21 Chinese­Portuguese enclave 
-=+'~~~ 22 Coffee server .::.J..~:.l.=..~ 25lce cream mold 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
DAVE KELLETT 
-J!:. 
['mo,.., Now, r Ge..-o"' Now f\Nt> I~EN-­
T WAS Co"L-t>Po "Fool-E.\> f'i\,;. .... 
\ 


BILL WATTERSON 

.---------~------~ 
50 'iO\J WO\JlD\-1t O\SJECT ICl 1'\~ BE\1'¥.; t:)(l'c'St.D Th t..RI, ti\~\E'S OR M,\15\C. \ll~T SCMt. P£01'\.£. \11\~K \'5 ~SI'J£. ~ S\bC.'f:.ltl.b, 
R\Q.\T" 


1 COULD 1-11\VE 
PHRASED THAT 
BETTER.. 


Wanted: Reporters, Photographers, and Editors. 
Join the Observer Staff!! 
-.. 

26 Biblical prophet  40 Diligent  52  At any time  
27 Thanks, in  41 Lagoon former  53  Betting game  
Thuringen 28 Journalist  46Actress Caldwell  54 55  Kind of vision Fiddlers' king  
Joseph 29 Grieved  48 Lacked  56 "Schindler's  List" extra  
31 "My P,inner With  50 Locale in van Gogh paintings  57 Fix 58  Israeli diplomat  
32 Brimless hat  51 Breakfast fruit  59  Dow Jones fig.  
33 Test car  

maneuvers 
Get answers to any three clues 
36 18-wheeler 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
39 Iron pumper's 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
pride 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to and mail to: 
The Observer POBoxQ Notre Dame, IN  46556  
D  Enclo sed is $60 for one academic year.  
D  Enclo sed is $35 for one semester.  
Name Address City  State  Zip  

\)()'{0\.) S\JI'I'ORI ~E t:Rli. 
EXI'RtSS\C>t-l Cf lr€AS 
li'l OJR '3XIti'i;. 
50 iO\J WOJLI) 
B£. N:;~\l-151 Ct.t\9:l~\P fll.ID "ffiE 'S\Jf'\x;<.E.%1~ 
Of' I\E\5 '{OJ \"<)Jt--I'V \J\')ThSit.F\J\.. 


SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, September 13, 1994 

Irish spikers ready to battle Boilermakers 
Home winning streak and state pride are on the line tonight for Notre Dame 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 

Not only is the Notre Dame volleyball team off to its best start ever with a record of 9-0 going into its match tonight against the Boilermakers of Purdue University, but they are also in first place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, with individual leaders in the categories of kills average, digs average, and assists average. 
As far as the team effort is concerned, the Irish lead the conference in hitting percentage and digs per game with 15.8. Senior co-captain Christy Peters leads the conference with 120 kills and 90 digs in 28 games, and junior Shannon Tuttle leads with her superior setting of 315 assists in 28 games, an average of 11.25 assists per game. 
Tuttle's performance as setter has been a key in the Irish success this sea­son. The position of setter is one of great importance and leadership on the court, but Tuttle remains humble about her contribution to the team, and her position as conference leader in assists. 
"The team is passing very well, "said Tuttle. "It is easy for me. All I have to do is get the ball in the air, and it's easy to decide who to set, "she added. 
The Irish will look for a strong per-
Women's golf team shows promise for the future during Redbird Classic 
Freshmen King and Melby lead the way for Lady Linksters 
formance from Tuttle against the Boilermakers tonight, especially with Purdue's strength lying in its middle blocking. 
The Boilermakers are 2-4 going into tonight's match, but lead the series with the Irish 10-3, even though it has been the Irish advantage the last two years. Purdue returns three starters and eight letterwinners to this year's roster. 
Purdue has not looked especially threatening thus far this season, but the Irish look for a challenge from the Boilermakers. 
"They haven't been playing well, but they usually do against us," said Tuttle. 
The match versus Purdue tonight is of special importance to the Irish team, mostly because it is one step closer to the Indiana "state championship". The Irish have defeated Valparaiso and Indiana, and a victory over Purdue would mean that the only team in the way of the state crown would be confer­ence rival, Butler University, who the Irish face at the end of next month. 
One of the other goals for the Irish, in addition to ruling the state of Indiana, is to win all of their home matches. 
The team is currently 6-0 at home and 3-0 on the road. In fourteen years of volleyball at Notre Dame, the Irish record has been 114-48 at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Under Coach Debbie Brown, who is in her fourth year as coach of Notre Dame, the Irish are an amazing 40-3 at the JACC. That adds up to an average of only one home loss in each of her sea· sons with the Irish. 
Coach Brown and the Irish team look to remain undefeated going into the Colorado Coors tournament in Boulder, Colorado, this weekend in which they will face Colorado, Michigan State, and Texas A&M. 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
In the opening tournament of a season, ts always nice to see a few fresh faces emerge on the scene. 
This was the case last week­end as the Notre Dame wom­en's golf team finished seventh in the 34th annual Redbird classic at Illinois State University. 
Both freshman Katie King and Tracy Melby finished in 26th place overall with identical scores of 24 7. 
"It is always encouraging to see two freshman come into the program and do as well as they did," said assistant coach Tom Hanlon. 
King shot a 78 on the first 18­holes and an 82 in the second round, while Melby had an 82 and an 85 respectively, in the first two rounds. 
Overall, the Irish finished with a 54-hole total of 986. Junior Julie Melby concluded her third round with an 84, placing her 25th with a three day total of 
246. Senior co-captain Katie Shannon also tied with King and Melby at 247 to secure the seventh place finish. 
"I had mixed emotions about the way we played," said Hanlon. "I was real happy with the way we played in the first round." 
After the first round, the Irish were only a few shots out of second place, but inconsistent play plagued Notre Dame for the next two rounds. Despite a 318 in the first round, the Irish could only muster a 331 and a 337 respectively, in the last two. 
"We really did let it slip away," commented Hanlon. "I was rather disappointed in the last two rounds." 
Illinois took the team title with 919 strokes, edging out second place Purdue by fourteen strokes. Vicki Appleton of Iliinois State took medalist hon­ors in a three-way playoff as she birdied the first hole of sud­den-death. Purdue's Kris Lindstom and Karen Karmazin from Illinois finished second. 
Next weekend, the Irish will travel to defend their team title at Ferris State in Big Rapids, Michigan. 
"We won their two years in a row and we hope to repeat the feat for a third time," said Hanlon. 


of note...
Notre Dame Basketball 
Notre Dame fell to the 9th spot in 
The Irish announced their '94-'95 schedule 
the Bowl Coalition poll after their 
which includes four NBC-televised games. 
26-24 loss to Michigan. 
See page 14 
r 



