

Tuesday, March 15, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 104 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Coats speaks on health care, welfare system 
ByLIZFORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
If approved, the Clinton health care plan would perpet­uate the dependence of the poor on the government, ac­cording to Indiana Republican Senator Dan Coats, an oppo­nent of the plan. 
"The Clinton health care plan seeks the triumph of hope over experience," said Coats, who spoke at Notre Dame yesterday as the final part of an ongoing series of lectures marking the 125th anniversary of the Law School. 
"How can we be a self-gov­erning nation when the gov­ernment controls all aspects of our lives?'' he asked. 
A ranking Republican on the Senate Subcommittee on Children and Family, Coats stressed the importance of the family and how the breakdown of the family unit is affecting society. 
"Any nation whose families are weak will find itself with no solid institutions," he said. 
The government is partly to blame for the breakdown of the family unit due to the perpetua­tion of a welfare systen that en­courages irresponsiblity and dependence on government, according to Coats. 
"The role of the family has been weakened, subordinated to the state," he said. "We need to stop fueling the welfare state." 
Welfare has made unmarried women dependent on the state and has destroyed the respon­sibility of the father for his chil­dren, according to Coats. 
"We are subsidizing immoral behavior," he said. Coats stated that in the past 

25 years, the government has spent 3.6 trillion on welfare programs. "That's enough to raise every man, woman and child in this country above the poverty line." 
Coats compared the welfare system with the proposed Clinton health care plan. "It's the difference between demo­cratic capitalism and demo­cratic socialism," he said. 
With the Clinton plan, the government decides how much insurance each person gets, where they can get this insur­ance and even which doctors they can see. The plan also pro­motes promiscuity, through a proposed condom distribution plan, undermining family val­ues and parental teaching, ac­cording to Coats. 
Coats also objected to the fact that under the Clinton plan, abortion on demand is not only available, but also insured. 
"Everyone, including the president of the Right to Life organization to the Catholic priests and bishops, will be paying for abortion," he said. 
The main problem with the Clinton plan, according to Coats, is that it still does not solve the problem of third party payment, which causes prices to soar. "Eighty to 90 per cent of all medical programs are paid for by someone else." Coats said. "Making govern­ment pay for health care will not eliminate costs." 
"The free market system does not apply to health care," he said. 
Instead, Coats proposes a health care plan which makes the patients consumers, who will look for the lowest prices and drive down the cost of health care. 


The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

Getting down ... 

Members of the Notre Dame Concert Band get warmed up for their Spring Concert, which was held yesterday evening. 
Indiana Senator Dan Coats addresses a crowded courtroom on issues such as welfare and health care in the Law School yesterday. 
Coats proposes a system that gives every American catas­trophic illness coverage and then allows them to build up funds in an account which would make them consumers, eliminating the third party pay­ment and driving down health care costs. 
People don't realize the cost of health because the insurance company usually pays the bill, with the individual only paying a percentage, said Coats. 
"We need to make patients consumers. We shop for every­thing else, why not health care?" he said. "The Clinton plan has not consumer pres­sure to deliver health care at lower costs." 

Almost every government with a national health care sys­tem is looking to privatize, ac­cording to Coats. "Costs are in­creasing faster than even U.S. costs, and we provide care that no other country can provide." 
Coats received his law degree from Indiana University and has been a member of the Senate since 1989 and was a member of the House of Represenatatives from 1981­88. 
t for saying that a spe­
s~cutor ought to be at~ 
Jo do his jo~, ·.. the 

. .. can party has llilt taken a pti$ltion on the Whitewater issue,·said Senator Dan Coats R~Ind. in yesterday's news con­ference. 
~lf its not such a big deal," Coat§asked, "why is the White ijo~~ going to such extra.ordi­~arjr}!}ngths to with}\old evi­dence the prosecutor needs in or({et to proceed (with • the in­vestigation)?" . 
"We're all amused,.. he said tegarding the Democratic ch~rg~;~ that Whitewater is a "Re ublican conspiracy." 
t£l~ to Notre Dame to 
··to1stU.dents at the law 
on public policy and its 
·e at on • to American families, Coats addressed the issues o health care and the welfare $YSWm before his lecture. 
. According to Coats. the .pri­v stem of health care in 
tl. should be ptes~rvell. .. . .. uld be "targeted and r~ . Without imposing a plan that reinvents the entire health care system," he said. .· 
. Coats said that the· welfare sys~m has also had a.definite 



Callahan to receive Laetare Medal 
Special to The Observer 
Sidney Callahan, professor of psychology at Mercy College and columnist for Commonweal magazine, will receive the University of Notre Dame's 1994 Laetare Medal, according to University President Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 
"In Sidney Callahan's writing and teaching, the wisdom of Catholicism and the insights of contemporary psychological 

s c h o l a r s hi p Callahan embrace," Father Malloy said. "With this year's Laetare Medal, Notre Dame celebrates an intellectual career characterized as much by compassion as by clarity." 
Callahan, a native of Washington, D.C., graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 
1955, received a master's de­gree in psychology from Sarah Lawrence College in 1971 and earned a doctorate in social and personality psychology from City University of New York in 1980. 
Before joining the Mercy 

College faculty that year, she taught for three years in Fairfield University's graduate school of education. 
She has been a visiting pro­fessor at Boston College and the University of Denver and has lectured at more than 200 insti­tutions of higher education na­tionwide. 
In addition to her Commonweal column, Callahan has written numerous articles in popular and scholarly maga­zines on a variety of issues in­cluding medical ethics, the role of women in the church and so­ciety, popular culture, politics, marriage, sexuality, child rear­ing, prayer, and ecumenism. A consultant at the Hastings Center, an ethical research foundation established and now directed by her husband, Daniel Callahan, she has also served on advisory boards and committees for the Catholic Health Association, the New Jersey Citizens Committee for Biomedical Ethics, The Ford Foundation, the National Science Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Kennedy Institute of Bioethics. 
Among the books Callahan has written or edited are "In Good Conscience: Reason and Emotion in Moral Decisionmaking"; "With All Our Heart and Mind: The Spiritual Works of Mercy in a Psychological Age"; "Abortion: Understanding Differences"; "The Working Mother"; "Beyond Birth Control: Christian Experience of Sex"; "The Illusion of Eve: Modern Woman's Search for Identity"; "The Magnificat: The Prayer of Mary"; and "Christian Family Planning and Sex Education." 
Callahan received an hon­orary degree from Notre Dame in 1991. Among her other hon­ors are an honorary degree from Saint Mary's College, the Marianist Award from the University of Dayton, the Sesquicentennial Medal from Manhattanville College, and the Rosary College Alumnae Medal. 
The Laetare (pronounced Lay-tah-ray) Medal is so named because its recipient is an­nounced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent on the Church calendar. "Laetare," the Latin word for "rejoice," is the first word in the entrance antiphon of the Mass that Sunday, which antici­pates the celebration of Easter. The medal bears the Latin 
see LAETARE I page 4 


--~------------· 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, March 15, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Society...the 
real reason for 



the gender gap 
Notre Dame students are~~~~~~~-1 always complaining about the strained relations between men and women on campus. These prob­lems, however, are not unique to Notre Dame. The treatment of women in the Church, the media's por­trayal of stereotypical males and females and Kelly O'Neil even everyday language Asst. Office Manager form a barrier between men and women every­where. 
The first step in improving these relation­ships calls for both men and women to become conscience of the gender inequalities which society imposes on us. As subtle as these dif­ferences may seem, they do promote very nega­tive images. 
For example, most of you probably did not notice that of the 34 issues of this semester's Observer, only four women were quoted in the "Quote of the Day" section. In addition, three men who were quoted made sexist statements such as, "A man without a woman is like a neck without a pain." and "Love is the delusion that one woman differs from another." How does a saying like this affect our society? Can it lead to inequalities which ultimately result in strained relationships? 
Men are not to blame for these problems which society has created. In fact, women also promote these images by writing/reading arti­cles such as "20 Ways to Get a Man to Notice You," found in a recent issue of Mademoiselle. 
Magazines and other forms of media are one aspect that we must change in order to create a gender harmonious environment. Amazingly, the February edition of Cosmopolitan made me think: that it's 1954, not 1994. An article enti­tled "Practical Reasons He Should Marry You," cited the following ridiculous reasons: you cut hair, you do massages, you can drive a stick­shift car, and he can deduct you as a depen­dent. Can men and women ever be truly equal if ideas like these are encouraged? 
The gender specific language taught by the Church and in school also encourages in­equality. The Church's references to God the Father rather than God the Parent, along with its refusal to ordain female priests seem very hypocritical for a universal. all-inclusive com­munity. Likewise, schools using male language rather than gender neutral language encourage male and female stereotypes. 
The stereotypes formed typically promote a "tough guy" image for males and a "nice girl" image for females. These images define the way we think of ourselves and others, and we often neglect learning about a person's true character as a result. In fact, these images may ultimately encourage the violence, aggres­sion, and fear which fill the world. 
In order for men and women to become true equals, we all need to be aware of the inequali­ties which are a result of society. Maybe some­day Cosmo will quit printing articles such as "One Cosmo Girl's Plan to Meet (and Maybe Marry!} a Millionaire," and will print articles entitled "One Woman's Plan to Become a Millionaire." Maybe someday The Observer will quote more women. Maybe someday the Church will ordain female priests. Maybe someday we'll use gender neutral pronouns. And maybe someday the stereotypical male and female images will promote equality and lead to better relationships between men and women. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech 
Liz Foran Macy Hueckel 
Mara Divis Production 
Sports Cheryl Moser 
Tim Sherman Kathie Young 
Business Graphics 
David Clairmont Chris Weirup 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday c:xcep< during exam and vaca<ion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associa1ed Press. All rrproduc<ion righ<s are reserved. 
Tanker and freighter collide near the Bosporus Strait, cause oil spill 
ISTANBUL, said. The vice 
An oil tanker collided with a admiral said there was a possibility that freighter at the Black Sea entrance to a third ship was involved in the collision. the Bosporus strait Sunday night, The Ship Broker's second captain, causing several explosions and a fire Nicolas Mavvelos, told state television in that lit up the sky for miles. Eight an interview from his hospital bed that crew members were killed and 18 the Nassya had collided with an unidenti­missing from the two vessels, Istanbul fled ship and one of the two had then Governor Hayri Kozakcioglu said. crashed into the Ship Broker. Twenty-eight crew members were Government spokesman Yildirim Aktuna reported injured. The Bosporus, a told state television neither the tanker or vital shipping passage to the freighter had asked for pilot boats to Mediterranean for Russia and other guide it through the narrow strait. countries bordering the Black Sea, ~~~:::;S==:!!~~~:;;;;:====;~ Witnesses said the tanker sounded its 
was closed to traffic. The fire was still burning but under control by early Monday, fire officials said. Authorities said the freighter was sailing empty, and the tanker was carrying nearly 51,000 tons of Russian crude oil. State television showed oil-drenched crew­men plucked from the burning sea by rescuers in small boats. Both vessels were registered in Cyprus, Vice Admiral Salim Dervisoglu said. At least five explosions were reported, and oil and fire spread over the sea. Firefighters initially sprayed water instead of fire-retardant foam, spreading the burning oil slick, television news reports said. By early Monday, the slick had broken up into small pools of burning oil. The fire on the freighter Ship Broker was extinguished after it ran aground, fire officials said. The tanker Nassya continued to burn, but was under control 
Moscow warmly welcomes Nixon 
MOSCOW 

Spurned by Russia's president and premier, Richard Nixon got a warmer reception Monday when he told legisla­tors their country remains a great power with a right to set its own foreign policy course. The former president urged the foreign affairs committee of the Duma, the lower house of parlia­ment, to work out any differences with the United States despite recent "pro­


foundly disturbing developments" in the two countries' relations. Refused a meeting with President Boris Yeltsin or Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, Nixon showed no hard feelings in his remarks and was applauded by the lawmakers. Committee chairman Vladimir Lukin, the for­mer ambassador to the United States, hailed him as a "highly interesting and desirable visitor" and a longtime proponent of strong U.S.-Russian relations. But pleas­antries aside, Nixon said the two countries must more frankly address their "profound differences." 
Help unveiled for ailing EuroDisney 
PARIS 

The Walt Disney Co. and representatives of creditor banks said today they have agreed on a financial rescue plan for the Euro Disney theme park, threatened with bankruptcy two years after its gala opening. The plan, unveiled at a stockholder meeting at the park, would defer principal payments for three years to creditors, who would also forgive 18 months of interest. It must be approved by all 63 creditor banks. Disney, which owns 49 percent of the park, would waive its royalties and man­agement fees for five years and reduce them for an unspecified period afterward. The plan calls for issuing $1.03 billion in new Euro Disney stock. Disney will buy 49 percent of the new stock while lenders will underwrite 51 percent of the offering -essentially promising to buy whatever is not purchased by other investors. 
NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather The Accu-Weathert~ forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 15. 
Tuesday, March 15 Accu-Weather5 forecast for daylime conditions and high temperalures 

FRONTS: 
...&..&.. 

............... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Acclt-Wea1her. Inc. 
Ptossuro 
H L B &'SI ITIJ 0 . fZ3 gj ¢-~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIBA~t.dPrrna 
Adan<a 75 45 Denver 67 33 New York 56 36 Baltimore 62 35 Los Angeles 72 42 Philadelphia 57 34 Bos<on 53 37 Miami 78 62 Phoenix 86 55 Chicago 47 23 Michigan Ci<y 43 22 S1. Louis 58 34 Colombus 49 26 Minneapolis 40 20 San Francisco 66 46 Dallas 72 51 Nc:w Orleans 74 57 Seattle 57 44 
warning sirens, but the freighter, sailing 
toward the Black Sea, did not change 
course. It rammed into the tanker broad­
side, splitting it in two. The 19-mile-long 
strait links the Black Sea to the 
Mediterranean through the Sea of 
Marmara and the Aegean. Along with the 
Dardanelles, the Bosporus provides the 
only passage to the Mediterranean and 
beyond for Russia, Georgia, Ukraine, 
AP/Aiex Sibirny Moldova, Romania and Bulgaria. The 
environmental group Greenpeace staged a demonstration Friday at one of the two bridges linking the European and Asian coasts of Istanbul across the strait, calling for an end to the passage of oil tankers. Greenpeace members hung a banner over the bridge that read "Stop the Death Ships." Turkey opposes using the strait to carry oil from the former Soviet republics. It wants the oil transferred by pipelines. 
IU School ofMusic ties for first in country 
Indiana University's School of Music tied for first place among the nation's music schools in an annual magazine survey of graduate schools released Monday. The March 21 issue of U:S. News and World Report put IU's music school at the top, along with New York City's Julliard School and the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, 
N.Y. The University of Michigan was ranked fourth, fol­lowed by Philadelphia's Curtis Institute of Music. The issue that went on sale Monday was U.S. News and World Report's fifth annual "America's Best Graduate Schools" issue. The magazine ranks the country's top business, law, medical and engineering programs. It also rotates other categories into the rankings, including the arts. "When you recognize that there are 600 accredited music schools in the country. and they have showed five here, to be anywhere in the top five is significant," said Charles Webb, dean of IU's music school. "To be listed on top of the heap is a great thing for the school." In the same issue, IU's School of Business slipped from 20th place to 21st. The IU School of Law was ranked 33rd, tied with New York City's Fordham University. 
Hoosier wins $170,000 in lottery 
INDIANAPOLIS 

A Fairmount woman said she will pay off her house, pay some bills and buy a Jeep with her winnings from the "Hoosier Millionaire" show. Elesta Bishir won $170,000 on the game, which was broadcast statewide Saturday night. "I never imagined I would be in a position to help others ... I'm so happy," the mother of two said. Bishir gave up the guaranteed $100,000 to take a chance at the $1 million jackpot. She won $150,000 in the millionaire's round to add to the $20,000 she had won in earlier rounds. Other contestants and their winnings were: Ronnie Couchman of North Vernon, $15,000; Jamie Kimberlin of Brownsburg, $12,000; Peter Morris of Speedway, $12,000; Diane Ruggiero of Altoona, Penn., $7 ,000; and Darlene Kommans of Greentown, $4,000. 
--------------------------·-----------------------~-------------------­
Tuesday, March 15, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 
Top justice official Hubbell resigns 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK Rock, where he and Hillary Deposit Insurance Corp. 
Associated Press Rodham Clinton were partners, Hubbell said he would "stand were "elevated to public specu-.,. and take the blows from wher­WASHINGTON lation." He said he was confi-ever they came if they affected 
Associate Attorney General dent the dispute would be only him. But he decided to Webster Hubbell, a longtime resolved satisfactorily. resign. friend of President and Mrs. The law firm has been in-"I believe too much in this Clinton, resigned Monday, say­vestigating whether Hubbell, country, the president, the at­ing distractions from a probe at who held the number three po-torney general, the Justice his former law firm would sition with the Justice Department, my wife and lam­interfere with his service to the Department, overbilled clients. ily and my colleagues," he said. country. He has denied doing so and has Hubbell was the second high­
He lamented that "private said he was cooperating with ranking Clinton official to issues" involving his billings at the frrm's probe. resign in just over a week. the Rose Law Firm in Little Hubbell recused himself last White House Counsel Bernard 
fall from any role in the de-Nussbaum quit under fire on 
partment's investigation of the March 5 after revelations of 
Clintons' investment in the White House briefings with fed­
Whitewater Development eral regulators who are investi­
Corporation, the co-owner of gating an Arkansas savings and 
which also owned Madison loan with ties to the Clintons. 
Guaranty Savings & Loan. The The president said Hubbell 
Rose firm had represented had done valuable work at the 
Madison in the past, and Justice Department but "he 
Hubbell later sued an account-made the right decision" to re­
ing firm blamed in the thrift's sign and return home to 
failure on behalf of the Federal Arkansas. 
Jiappy lfJh C/3irthday, fillyson! 
J:gr;e, 
(j)ad,Mom §"J([J 
n 

WEEKOFMARCH 14, 1994 
"AMERICAN CHOICES" CONFERENCETHISWEEK 
A Prejudice Reduction
The "American education, foreign Charles Bierbauer of 
Workshop will be held on Choices" video tele­policy, and crime, and CNN. Please take ad­
Saturday, March 19th from 
conference will be a special emphasis will vantage of this oppor­8:30am to 4:30pm. Ifyou 
held this Sunday, be placed on the ques­tunityto discuss impor­are interested in participat­ing, please contact Mickey 
March 20. The con­tion "Where do we go tant issues! Franco at 631-4366.
ference is a nation­from here?" 
wide forum in which The conference "THE GRAPEVINE" IMPLEMENTED political issues will be will startat 6:00p.m. in In an effort to pating in special discussed by college 102 DeBartolo. It will improve the under-projects. Underclass­students. These issues be broadcast on C­graduate advising sys-men are encouraged to will include health Span and MTV and tern, a new peer pro­contact these volun­care reform, welfare, will be moderated by gram called The teers, who have agreed 
Grapevine has been to answer questions developed. A Grape­about their major. vine willbe established Watch for more in each dorm to link information about The upperclassmen to stu­Grapevine in your dents in their major. dorm. You can sign up 
Participantswill to be an advisor, oryou be listed by major in a can locate an upper­dorm flle, and will be classman in your ma­available to provide jor. Take advantage of advice about fulfilling this new system ofpeer requirements, chaos-advising! ing classes, and 

---·--·---------~-­
r---~ 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, March 15, 1994 
f 
Coats 
continued from page 1 
the fathers of their children," he said. 
The first step in improving the system, according to Coats, is to ask, "How do we start over?" Clear decisions must be made on assigning responsibilities. A date must be set by which the rules must be implemented, he said. 
When asked about the down­ing of Serbian aircraft by U.S. planes, Coats said he was "skeptical" about the situation. According to Coats, if you study the history of that part of the world, you will realize that "American soldiers are in the middle of a centuries-old con­flict." 
President Clinton, Coats said, "has not clearly defined our vi­tal strategic national interests" on that issue. Coats described Clinton's plan as a "peace-en­forcing effort," saying that he was "hesitant" and "treading very cautiously." 

Laetare 

continued from page 1 
inscription, "Magna est veritas et prevalebit"-"The truth is mighty and it shall prevail." 
Established at Notre Dame in 1883, the Laetare Medal was conceived as an American counterpart of the Golden Rose, a papal honor which an­tedates the 11th century. 
The medal has been awarded annually at Notre Dame to a Catholic "whose genius has en­nobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the her­itage of humanity." It is com­monly regarded as the most prestigious honor given to American Catholics. 
Among the 115 previous re­cipients of the Laetare Medal are Civil War General William Rosecrans, operatic tenor John McCormack, President John F. Kennedy, Ambassador Clare Boothe Luce, Catholic Worker foundress Dorothy Day, novel­ist Walker Percy, and evange­list Sister Thea Bowman. 
FORMAL WEAR RENTALS & ALTERATIONS 
Seniors: We offer the best selection, best quality & best service at the best price in town $10 off any tuxedo in stock with this ad 
prices $55-$75 (offer ends March 19) 
Since 
1980 


==· ffi11:!:11:) 
Town & Counrry Shopping Center, 2452 Miracle Lane, Mishawaka, ln. 


Extremists to keep on fighting 
By ARIEH O'SULLIVAN 
Associated Press 
KFAR TAPUAH, Occupied 
West Bank 
Leaders of one of the banned Jewish extremist organizations moved underground Monday, vowing to continue their strug­gle against the Middle East peace process from their hiding places. 
The mountaintop settlement where the leaders reside had an eerie feel to it Monday. A fierce wind shook the collection of trailers and prefabricated homes in this center of extrem­ism deep in the heart of the West Bank. 
"There will be more guard duty for all of us tonight now that David's gone underground and Lenny's disappeared," said Kuzriel Meir, a Vietnam veter­an who moved here 18 months ago. 
David Axelrod and Lenny Goldberg are two senior ac­tivists in the outlawed Kahane Lives, an offshoot of the Kach movement that calls for ousting Arabs from the occupied lands. 

The two are among the latest Jewish extremists to go under­ground to avoid arrest. They occasionally call Israel radio or television from hiding, vowing to continue the fight against the peace process which they be­lieve will end with Israel hand­ing its biblical birthright back to the Palestinians. 
"This witch hunt against us is a prelude of what will happen to everyone in opposition," said Reuben Ben-David, a 34-year­old grocer and supporter of Kahane Lives. 
Residents complained of ha­rassment by the police who have restricted their move­ments and taken their weapons. Meir claimed that po­lice pushed into his home last week seeking to arrest his wife, who was mistaken for someone else. 
"They treated us like Arabs," he said incredulously. "You can't have the same kind of laws for Jews as Arabs. We're at war." 
Kahane Lives supporters said their office in the United States has sought legal aid from the American Civil Liberties Union. 
"We would also make a deal with the devil in order to save the people of Israel from disas­ter of Yasser Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin," said Mike Guzovsky, a former resident of Tapuah and now a wanted man. He was speaking on army radio in a telephone call from New York. 
Less than one-third of the 50 families that live here are sup­porters of Kahane Lives, yet the settlement is seen as the center of the organization. 
I;;/(Lfa-fc31f 2 I~ (Ji/J?ti-ud<Ly 
Lm>e. R.<9-(J Dad. ,M(r(IQ, Dreoo. 1\e]!Jee 6 

Tuesday, March 15, 1994 The Observer • NEWS pageS 

U.S. plane crashes off Kenyan coast en route to Somalia 
By REID MILLER 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU, Somalia 
An American AC-130 aerial gunship crashed into the Indian Ocean off the Kenyan coast Monday, killing one crewman and leaving 10 missing. 
Three other crew members 
STRAIGHT talk about  
being  OUEE~  
T T T  WHAT ARE THE ISSUES? IS THERE DISCRIMINATION AT ND? WHY SHOULD YOU CARE?  

ALL YOU EVER WANTED TO KNOW BUT DIDN'T KNOW WHO TO ASK! WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16 at 7:30pm MONTGOMERY THEATER 
SPONSORED BY THE GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
QUALITY OF LIFE COMMITIEE 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 



"On The Campus!" 
phone: 631-6316 store hours: Mon-Sat: 9a.m. -5p.m. 
COME BACK TO EHIN fi OTIIFR IRISH LOVE S<.'lNGS 
Includes lhe classics "DANNY BOY."' "OOONARIE.'' "GALWAY BAY" & more' 
were plucked from the water by rescuers, said Army Col. Steve Rausch. Kenyan divers and fishing boats, as well as several 
U.S. aircraft, were continuing the search. 
The plane had taken off from Mombasa, Kenya, and was on its way to Somalia "to conduct a routine mission" in support of U.S. forces there, said a Pentagon spokesman, Cmdr. Joe Gradisher, in Washington. There were no early indications that the plane went down due to hostile fire. 

Rausch said the crash would be investigated, but it appeared to be the result of a malfunc­tion. 


THEY CALL IT IRELAND 
Features performances hy CARMEl QUINN, MAUREEN O'HARA. FRANK PARKER. BRENDAN 
The AC-130 is a heavily armed version of the four-en­gined C-130 cargo plane, one of the workhorses of the U.S. mili­tary. 
Four AC-130s have been op­erating since June from Kenya's port city of Mombasa. Kenya borders Somalia to the south and has long served as a base for both U.S. military and humanitarian efforts aimed at Somalia. 
Rausch said the AC-130 crashed into the sea off the re­sort town of Malindi, about 75 miles north of Mombasa and about 200 yards off the Kenyan coast. 
In other developments, Rausch said two 60mm mortar shells exploded Monday evening near Mogadishu's sea­port, where 320 American sol­diers were awaiting shipment to Mombasa aboard a Navy 
Thinking About a Career in the Law? 
Learn about education and career opportunities in this information-packed session! 
Sat., March 19, 9 a.m. -noon 
• Learn about employment trends & 
career opportunities  
• Learn what's involved in law school  
I IUSB  • Receive a comprehensive information packet REGISTRATION ONLY $19 Call for Information or Registration 237-4261 Indiana University South Bend  
Continuing Education  

on 
•
11S 


usic!! 

WRAP THE GREEN FLAG: FAVORITES OF THE CLANCY BROTHERS WITH TOMMY MAKEM 
Includes "PADDY WEST.. ·eOLD TENANT FARMER.'' "THE RISING OF THE MOON" & more' 
transport ship. 
One of the shells fell near the port's main gate, the other just outside, Rausch said, but nei­ther caused any injuries. 
Two presumed mortar shells fell harmlessly into the sea just off Mogadishu's beaches Saturday night while Gen. John Shalikashvili, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, was visiting Somalia. 
Shalikashvili came to Mogadishu to review plans for the U.S. withdrawal, due to be completed by the end of the month. 
U.S. troops first came to Somalia in December, 1992, to help feed a nation caught in the grip of famine and civil war. The last of what once was a force of more than 20,000 Americans is due to leave by March 25. 

page6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 15, 1994 

Ifyou are interested in learning how to conftont oppression, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity workshop: 
L~m~~ed Enro11111en~, Call 1111med~a~ely 
SATURDAY, MARCH 19TH 
8:30 AM -4:30 PM 
EARTH SCIENCE BUILDING ROOM 101 
LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED 
THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
CONTACT: MICKEY FRANCO • 631-4355 DEMETRIUS MARLOW • 631-4619 ADELE LANAN • 631-7308 
Tuesday, February 15, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page7 
Astronauts use robotic arm as they continue mission 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
Talk about power. Columbia's astronauts generated 3,200 pounds of electromagnetic force at the end of the shuttle crane Monday and locked onto a metal target. 
It's the first time a magnetic grappling system has been test­ed in orbit. 
Astronauts Marsha Ivins, Pierre Thuot and Charles "Sam" Gemar took turns mov­ing Columbia's 50-foot robot arm around the outside of the shuttle to test the powerful, electrically powered magnets, tracking cameras and force­measuring devices attached to the tip of the arm. They prac­ticed latching onto a metal tar­get anchored in the cargo bay. 
The tests will continue through Wednesday. The 14­day research mission is due to end Friday. 
NASA said the new magnetic grappling system could make it easier for shuttle astronauts to snare satellites and build orbital platforms, such as a space station. 
Satellites designed for release and capture by the shuttle robot arm must have a protrud­ing, footlong pin. Mechanical snares on the end of the shuttle robot arm hook onto the pin and allow the satellite to be moved. 
Although this method has worked during 13 years of shuttle flight, there's always a chance the mechanical snare could fail and jeopardize the success and safety of a mission. 
Thuot said his last shuttle flight, a 1992 satellite-rescue mission, could have benefited from a magnetic grappling sys­tem. 
Three spacewalks and three spacewalkers were needed to capture the stranded Intelsat satellite, which had neither a grappling pin nor a magnetic plate. Thuot and the two other spacewalking astronauts ended up grabbing the satellite by hand. 
"That was only about 15 min­utes of the whole mission that we spent three days trying to accomplish," Thuot said in a preflight interview. "If this technology proves out, which we think it will, you'd see com­mercial satellite users be more willing to put a little (magnetic) plate on a satellite." 
Earlier Monday, commander John Casper and pilot Andrew Allen lowered Columbia's alti­tude from 184 miles, where the shuttle had been since the mis­sion began March 4, to 160 miles. The orbit will be lowered again Wednesday. 
Atmospheric scientists want to see how spacecraft glow changes at these lower alti­tudes and denser atmospheres. A fuzzy-looking, orange halo forms around shuttles and other spacecraft as they collide with gas molecules; the glow can interfere with telescope ob­servations. 
To better understand this phenomenon, researchers on the ground commanded a can in Columbia's cargo bay to open and spew nitrogen gas into space. The equivalent of a bar­relful of gas gushed out for three minutes as instruments on the shuttle monitored the re­sults. 
Researchers were surprised that the released nitrogen ex­tinguished rather than en­hanced the naturally occurring glow. They had no immediate explanation for what happened. 
"It was unexpected but very exciting for us," said Gary Swenson, an atmospheric sci­entist at the Lockheed Research and Development Laboratory in Palo Alto, Calif. "It's one of the highlights for our day." 

Chinese dissidents released as Christopher leaves town 
By DAN BIERS Although Christopher at­
Associated Press tempted Monday to put a posi­tive spin on the trip, Clinton BEIJING wasn't so upbeat. Punctuating its resistance to "I was disappointed at the re­


Sophomores! 
U.S. pressure, China freed two sults of the meeting with the dissidents and eased the sur­secretary of state," he said. veillance on others Monday, "Our policy is the same. We'll just as Secretary of State just have to wait and see what Warren Christopher left town. happens between now and 
The timing of the dissidents' June." release seemed intended to de­Premier Li Peng, President
Interested in 
liver the same message their Jiang Zemin and Foreign detention did: international ef­Minister Qian Qichen offered a forts to link foreign trade to chorus of disdain toward link­human rights won't work in ing trade to human rights. China. U.S.-China differences over

beilljlthe JPW 
In Shanghai, dissidents Wang human rights, Qian summed up Fuchen and Yang Zhou were after the meetings, "is a reality returned home at about noon, which (will) exist for a long just as Christopher left China time to come." for Russia. 

Chaarperson? 
Wang was detained by police To emphasize the message Friday morning, hours before that China would not bow to Christopher's arrival. Yang was outside pressure on human held each of the three nights of rights, authorities detained at Christopher's visit. Both belong least 17 dissidents before and to a Shanghai group called the during Christopher's visit. China Study Group on Human Others were put under house
Pick up applications at the 
Rights. arrest. At least three remain in "I don't think they are going detention. 
to give me any more trouble But surveillance began to tonight" now that Christopher's ease as soon as Christopher visit is over, Yang said in a tele­left. Xu Liangying, a noted sci­
LaFortune Info Desk 

March 3-16 
phone interview. entist who issued a human rights appeal timed for

Applications Due March 18 
President Clinton has said Christopher's visit, said two China must make significant policemen posted outside his progress on human rights to apartment door were with­gain renewal this June of its drawn and he was allowed to
For information call Christi at 4-4090 
most-favored-nation trade sta­leave the building. tus, which provides for the low­An activist who was released est available tariffs. on Sunday, however, spent all 

day Monday at the local police station being questioned about her contacts and activities. But it didn't stop her from writing a

ITENTION HOSPITALITY PROGRAM MEMBERSI 
letter Monday to the national legislature, the National People's Congress, which opened its annual two-week session last week. 


The letter reminded delegates that this year is the fifth an­niversary of the military crack­down on the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy movement, and blamed the clash on the government and military. 
Dissidents who had left Beijing last week, apparently to evade police harassment, had not returned home Monday. Wang Dan, a top student leader from the 1989 democracy

Both will begin at 7:30p.m. and will be held in room 223 Hayes.-Healy. 
movement, went to the south­ern coastal city of Xiamen. The

The meetings will be very brief and you need only attend one. 
whereabouts of China's most famous dissident, Wei Jingsheng, were not clear. but

Please bring your personal calendar/schedule. 
his secretary said Monday that he had not returned to Beijing. Before Christopher left town, the Chinese did throw a few

Questions? Call Jennifer Carrier at 631 ... 7505 or Mary Rottenborn at 634.-2244. 
crumbs his way which may help the administration renew MFN status while claiming hu­man rights progress. 


Thank You 

_j 
---~------~~-~-~----~~~~ -----~ 
page8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 15, 1994 
I ' 
I 
NO ANN(JAL Ff_f_ A~1.,000 (Rf.~IT LIMIT .. AN~ LOW MT[5 OKAr.. NOW HIT THE. Jf..A<Hl .  If YOU ~OW.,T 6-0T It 6-lT IT.~~  

.---------------------------------------------~~~~----~~--------------------------------------------~~----­




BUSINESS 
Tuesday, March 15, 1994 page9 
BUSINESS FORUM 
ND's endowm.ent 
can create m.ore 
than just interest 
One economic topic that doesn·~~~~~~~­
come up much at Notre Dame is the endowment. Maybe that's because asking questions about it is too much like asking your par­ents probing questions about their finances: you have a burning desire to know the details yet are scared to ask, because either those jokes your parents make a about being nearly bankrupt are Connel Fullenkamp true, or they have plenty of loot -------­but really do like your other siblings better. You con­vince yourself that you really don't want to know why your parents or your in loco parentis manage money the way they do. 
While you probably shouldn't ask too many ques­tions about your parents' fmances, you should take an active interest in Notre Dame's endowment. This is especially true now that the endowment is rapidly approaching the $1 billion mark. To stick with the family analogy for a moment longer, crossing the bil­lion dollar threshold means that ND's endowment gets to sit at the Big Kids' Table from now on. It means that we need to re-think ND's role in the economic democracy. 
To some, the phrase "economic democracy" is a way of saying "socialism." What I have in mind is rather the fact that corporations are economic democracies in which one share of stock gets one vote in the elec­tion of the board of directors of the corporation. The board of directors sets corporate policy by choosing and monitoring the managers who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of the corporate firm. Holding a share of stock in a corporation makes the holder a part-owner of the corporation, and the board of directors and managers of a corporation must do what the owners of the firm tell them to do. 
Increasingly, the big players in the economic democ­racies who have the power to elect or fire boards o directors of corporations are the institutional investors-even endowed not-for-profits like Notre Dame. These investors control sums large enough i not to buy some firms outright then to influence cor­porate policy-making through the share-votes they control. A recent Wall Street Journal article pointed out that institutional investors are in fact influencing the practices of many corporations through their elec­toral clout, mostly by "persuading" boards of-directors and managers to implement cost-cutting or pro­ductivity-enhancing measures. 
Now that Notre Dame's endowment has become so large, it is time to think about using this size to make a difference in the economic landscape. At this time, most of the stock held in the Notre Dame endowment is held indirectly, as shares in mutual funds. Mutual funds are a good way to invest in stocks, but they have the disadvantage that the manager of the fund rather than the investor in the fund gets to vote in corporate elections. Perhaps it is time for Notre Dame to go out on its own, investing directly in some corporations with some of the funds from the endowment. The managers of this money can seek a social, rather than a monetary, return. 
Suppose, for example, that we don't like the Joe Camel cartoon cigarette ads because they encourage children to smoke and possibly have unsightly humps liposucted. We could ban the sale of Camels on cam­pus, and write letters to Philip Morris-a symbolic, but futile, gesture. (Does anybody remember the Coke-Apartheid boycott?) On the other hand, the endowment could purchase, say, a million shares o Philip Morris and President Malloy could call up the CEO and say "Phil (not his real name), I really don't think this Joe Camel thing is working out. See you at the shareholder meeting." Click. 
Now that the endowment has some weight to it, let's think about throwing it around a little, to make the world a better place. Hey, it's our money. 
Connel Fullenkamp is an Assistant Professor o Finance in the College ofBusiness Administration 
MARKET ROUNDUP 

12/1193 1/1/94 2/1/94 3/1/94 4/1/94 


Clinton calls for united job effort at conference 
By ROBERT NAYLOR 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
President Clinton today urged America's major trading partners to combine their "collective energy and ideas" to solve the world's cri­sis of chronic unemployment and stagnant wages. 
Clinton, speaking to the top eco­nomic policy-makers of the seven richest industrial countries, said every nation faced a "stubborn and persistent problem" of how to cre­ate more and better-paying jobs. 
He said that the problem was dif­ferent for each country, with the United States hampered by stagnant wages and Europe saddled with high unemployment rates. 
"I asked for this conference to summon the same collective energy and ideas and experience to one of the greatest problems of our era," Clinton said. The president said the most advanced industrialized coun­tries had to learn how to obtain and maintain growing living standards for its citizens. 
The president continued to pres­sure Europe and Japan to do more to end the global recession by stim­ulating domestic demand. He said the United States would do its part by continuing with efforts to reduce its budget deficits. 
Clinton also urged the world's industrialized powers to talk openly about the challenges they face in a rapidly changing global economy. 
"If we can honestly debate these problems, we can help people over­come their fear of change," Clinton said. 
"We've got to make our people believe that productivity can be a source of gain, not pain," the presi­dent said. 

Clinton's remarks came at the opening of a two-day conference that the administration hopes will foster a freewheeling discussions of the jobs problem among finance, labor and economics ministers from the so-called Group of Seven coun­tries -the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Canada and Italy. 
The president said the conference participants needed to have the courage to ask the "hard ques­tions," such as why has unemploy­ment remained high even in periods of economic expansion and how can fears of inflation be balanced against the need to promote growth. 
"None of us can find the answers to these questions just within the borders of our own countries," Clinton said, urging the nations to learn from each other. 
"Today we are beginning a seri­ous conversation about the econom­ic well being of people in all coun­tries," Clinton said. "This is an his­toric, important and long overdue moment." 
In advance of the speech, Clinton had said he planned to seek a new coordinated strategy among America's major trading partners. However, in the speech the presi­dent laid out no major new initia­tives. 
While urging Europe to do more to cut interest rates, Clinton earlier in the day had told reporters that he did not think that rising American rates would choke of the U.S. recov­ery. 
"I think that since there's no inflation in the economy, the inter­est rates should not continue to go up," the president told reporters before a breakfast meeting with economics ministers. 
"If they moderate, tail off a little, we'll be all right," he said. 
Free tax help unseen by low income families 
By JENNIFER DIXON Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Many low-income families are paying to have their tax returns prepared because they don't know that free help is available from IRS­trained volunteers, an advocacy group said Monday. 
Internal Revenue Service volun­teers are working in hundreds o libraries, community centers, churches, shopping malls and other convenient locations around the country this spring to help students, the non-English speaking, military personnel and low-income families with their tax returns. 
But most families are not aware of the free VITA -or Volunteer Income Tax Assistance -clinics, said the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, an advocacy and research organization that focuses on issues affecting low-and mod­erate-income Americans. 
In many states, the address of the nearest VITA clinic is available by calling a toll-free IRS number, 1­800-829-1040. Several attempts to get through on the toll-free line at midday Monday were unsuccessful. 
The IRS says it's best to call early and late in the day. The phone is answered during regular business hours. 
According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, low­income families who want to claim the Earned Income Tax Credit are likely to need help filing their tax returns. 
Those who claim the credit, a special tax break for low-income workers with children, cannot fill out the shorter IRS Form 1040EZ. 

Low inflation may curb rising interest rates 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
There is no reason for interest rates to keep climbing, President Clinton said Monday. It's too early to say whether rising rates have hurt the national economy, but "we'll be all right" if the increases stop, he said. 
Clinton's comments, at the open­ing of an international jobs confer­ence in Detroit, were interpreted by economists as a message to finan­cial markets about long-term inter­est rates rather than to the Federal Reserve. 
The Federal Reserve, on Feb. 4, nudged a key short-term interest rate from 3 percent to 3.25 percent. Since then long-term interest rates, which are set in fmancial markets, have climbed by more than twice as much. 
Thirty-year mortgages, for instance, averaged 7.63 percent last week, up from 6.97 percent the week before the central bank acted, according to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 
In response to a reporter's ques­tion at a reception for delegates from the world's major industrial­ized countries, Clinton said interest rates "were bound to go up some" after the government reported the economic growth rate hit 7.5 per­cent in the fourth quarter. 
"We had the highest growth rate · in a decade, but I think that since there's no inflation in the economy, the interest rates should not contin-


Markets face inflation jitters 
Inflation fears are sending stocks down and interest rates up. 
3D-year Treasury bond yield 
7"/o 
~  
6.5  March 14: 6.95%  
6  

5.5 H+H-HH-HH-H-t+l-t+l++t++t++t-tl 
)~1~~7~1~4~~~~2~6~~7~~14 
!1 Mft®M 
Dow Jones industrial average 
ue to go up," the president said. 
He said "I don't think we can say ... for sure yet" whether rising rates have hurt the economy. He added, "If they moderate, tail off a little, we'll be all right." 
The Mortgage Bankers Asso­ciation of America has reported a sharp curtailment in mortgage refi­nancings, which had helped fuel economic growth by putting added cash in homeowners' pockets. 
Clinton did not distinguish between long-term and short-term rates in his remarks, but analysts said they appeared to be directed at the long-term rates which are set by the market. 
"That's a carefully worded state­ment. He's really talking about long-term rates, not attempting to interfere with the Fed's indepen­dence," said economist David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York. 
Jones said he agreed with the president that long-term rates were probably higher than required by fundamental economic conditions. He said one factor driving rates up is traders' fear the Whitewater con­troversy will limit Clinton's effec­tiveness. 
He predicted that rates would edge down as soon as the intensity of Whitewater fades. 
Economist Robert Dederick of the Northern Trust. Co. in Chicago said he agreed that long-term rates might retreat a bit. But he also said they soon would start rising again. 
"My view is the trend is higher but they've moved up too fast too soon," he said. "There's no reason to think rates won't be trending higher." 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, March 15, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. BoxQ, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller .................•................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra· tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's mm· munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reader: AIDS information needed, not judgement 
Dear Editor: infected by HIV. If we are to the fight in ending the epidemic than a choice -the only con­find cures for other diseases. 
While reading law student accept Pimentel's belief, only by misleading innocent souls scious, sexual choice we can feel, however, this is not the is­Frank Pimentel's article "gays, non-whites, Hispanics, who are surely free from risk. make that reduces the odds of sue. Other diseases, such as Protection from the AIDS virus and IV-drug abusers" are at being infected. But this choice cancer and heart disease have starts with information, [The risk. Pimentel states that only The fact is, there are no guar­by no means insures our safety. not increased in such dramatic Observer, Friday, Feb. 2 5, "three in 1,000 whites are antees any of us are free from Monogamous relationships, numbers (nor so quickly). I 1994] I was struck with the infected with HIV... " the threat of AIDS; abstinence based upon trust, are also of doubt anyone seriously believes notion of how damaging his and monogamy are great pre­suspect nature. we have squandered resources many assertions, taken at face I must ask, of what possible ventive measures, but no assur­in an attempt to halt the spread value, could come across to relevance is this assertion? ances to our safety. They are Considering HIV's period of of this disease. someone who has not bothered Does his claim bear any rela­merely an increase in the mar­incubation, one can be infected to investigate the facts concern­tionship to the problem at gin of security. as long as 15 years (perhaps Pimentel claims we need not ing HIV. While I do not wish hand? Should we care who has even 20) without exhibiting vis­bother with education pro­my statements to be viewed as become infected? Yes, but not Nor can we run and hide. ible signs of illness. One could grams other than where "those a personal attack, I instead of­for "the obvious" reasons that According to a recent article in easily be HIV-positive without who need it most..." I ask who fer a dialogue countering what Pimentel would have us believe. The New York Times [Tuesday, even being aware of it. Sadly in should judge where that need I consider his reckless, incon­We should care because it is March 1, 1994] at least 800,000 an imperfect world, many have might be? Having served as an clusive and judgmental views. the compassionate, loving, and and as many as 1. 2 million been unknowingly infected by Indiana state-certified AIDS ed­His article seems to be based humane thing to do. We should Americans are presently in­their partners. ucator since 1991, I couldn't 
more on judgment than with care so no one else becomes fected with HIV. Activist Larry begin to state where not to sit­known facts. infected. Lastly, we should care Kramer recently stated we are Pimentel states the promotion uate these programs. High because too many people have losing nearly 100 lives -broth­of education, and particularly schools, colleges (law schools, Information, specifically edu­died already. ers, sisters. sons, daughter, the use of condoms as nothing obviously), hospitals, the work­
cational programs, are the best fathers, mothers, family mem­more than a conspiracy at best, place, correctional facilities, sources we can utilize in pre­It appears that Pimentel be­bers, and loved ones -daily to is an attempt to merely foist an and public transportation facili­venting others from being in­lieves those of us at this AIDS. Can we, as a society, unneeded product on the ties are but a few locations of fected with HIV. University are immune to risk continue to bear the burden of American public, and at worst, where to begin. 
because of our Catholic faith. such losses? an affront to Catholic doctrines. 
Unfortunately some feel, as Forgive my irreverence, but He may be in the enviable posi­Yes, research is expensive, apparently does Pimentel, that does God's love for the The Center for Disease tion of faithfully describing reli­but can we place a monetary taking this approach contra­University of Notre Dame pro­Control estimates (Sept. 1993) gious teachings. value on human life? I suggest dicts the teachings and faith of tect us from other dangers as that 334,344 cases of full-blown I however, would prefer to we all do something to put an the church; because AIDS is all well? Perhaps he has forgotten AIDS have been reported since err on the side of caution, see­end to this disease. It seems too often viewed as a disease that faith knows no boundaries, 1981 when the disease was first ing our masses educated and sad this crisis has become contracted through immoral and that many who have been recognized (in the interim peri­protecting themselves than to clouded by so many petty ­means, does this mean we infected also happen to be od since Sept. 1993, ap­be preaching to a vacant, dead some mean-spirited-insignifi­should ignore those who have practicing Christians (as if this proximately another 100,000 church. cant issues. The moral issue, become infected? were our only concern). additional cases have been re­as I see it, is how we choose to 
ported). Of those numbers over Pimentel questions the need care for those who are ill, and 
Such an attitude has only Aside from his title, I find one h_alf have ended in death. Even of calling attention to the AIDS for those who have been left harmed efforts to put a humane assertion I am in accord: "ab­in 1994, this the fourteenth epidemic. What should we do, behind. If we are strong in our face on the prevention, treat­stinence is the surest means of year of the epidemic, it is too bury our heads in the sand and faith, our compassion is but one ment, and search for a cure for not becoming infected with early to predict how many will pretend nothing is going on? avenue we must fully exercise 
this disease. Should we remain HIV." But it is here where our die from AIDS. But this too, is He goes on to say too many dol­in facing this crisis. Finally, we 
silent, or worse, spread useless views divert. Would it not be a immaterial -as I have stated lars have been spent on a dis­must work for a cure. 
information that places our fel­wonderful world if we were all too many people have already ease that strikes only a select low citizens needlessly at risk? sheltered from the risk of HIV? died. portion of our population. Yes, That alternative, in my opinion, Pimentel's surmises on those it is true many dollars have 
is reckless and immoral.I vehe­who spread gloom and doom -And while abstinence is the been spent trying to put an end 
mently disagree with Pimentel's "It is the same banal, vacuous ideal choice we can make to to AIDS. DOUGLAS MAPPIN views that few of us at Notre platitude that we're all at protect from the risk of infec­Proportionately, I would Technical Services Dame are at risk of becoming risk ... " further do disservice to tion, it provides nothing more agree too little has been done to Notre Dame Law School Library 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

DOONESBURY 
P&T&R., TH/3 GUII.TI VERPICT 

ALf3/3KT 5WCUM, /AJHATAR/3 
15 !3e/NG HAI/.8[) TOlJAY !3Y 

YOUR Ff3UINGS RIGHT NO/AJ 7 
A VcKY HAPPY G!<&CO­

ARE YOU fm!NG ANYTHING? 
)) AM&RICAN ATI-IL&TIC 

YOU MUSTHAVe !30M8 PRETTY 
COMMUNITY... \ 

AMAZING SON.t 
~ 

I !JO, RO/..ANO, BUTIU 7U-/.. 
Y04 IT~ 8/ZN A /..ONIS, !JIFFICU/..T 7RJAL-. &V!:3N UJITH 
Tl-lf3 15 MIUION AWAffi /AJ& NmJ Tlt1113 70 H&AL-. 
I 

''por women are as roses, whose fair flower, being once displayed, fall that very hour." 
--William Shakespeare 
~-~ -~---­




ACCENT 

By TANYA most of the events are open for p.m.-1:30 a.m. Tickets for the KRYWARUCZENKO everyone to attend. dance can be purchased at the Associate Accent Editor week's other events or at the The week began last night door. The cost per couple is $5 
For those looking for a little with a showing of "Blue Collar for Asian American Association something different and out of and Buddha," in LaFortune's members and $7 for non-mem­the ordinary, check out the Montgomery Theatre. The bers. Asian Heritage Week being movie is about Loatian refugees The week will end with a held this week. in the Midwest who build a brunch on Saturday morning 
Buddhist Temple and receive for Asian students and faculty 
The Asian American terrorist attacks. members who have been help­Association, along with SUB, A career panel will take place ful in promoting Asian studies Campus Ministries and the tonight at 7:00 in Hayes-Healy, and awareness, Wong said. Office of Multi-Cultural Student Rm. 124. The panel will consist Invitations have already been Affairs at Notre Dame will be of five Asian professionals giv­sent out. sponsoring the week, according ing advice on how to succeed in to co-president and co-founder their fields and the Asian influ­Along with the Asian Heritage Jeannie Wong. ence they experienced. Week, the Asian American 
Association has sponsored 
"One purpose of this week is Also tonight at 9:0{) in the many other events this year. to promote awareness of the LaFortune Ballroom comedian "In the fall we also had a Asian culture," Wong said. Phil Nee will perform. Nee has celebration for the Chinese Full "We also want to celebrate been featured on both HBO and Moon Festival," said Wong. "I diversity." MTV. Opening for Nee will be think it turned out well and we 
Wong, one of the co-founders the band PULSE. Admission is had many interested students of the Asian American free. participate." Association, said the organiza­On Wednesday at 9:45 p.m. in tion was formed two years ago. LaFortune's Montgomery Other events they have spon­One of the organization's main Theatre, the movie "Red sored this year include holding goals is to promote Asian cul­Sorgham" will be playing. a dumpling dinner, holding tural awareness. Admission is also free. dances, and showing movies. 
"When we founded the group A semi-formal dance, "Return "We really want people to we originally wanted to have a to the Forbidden City!" will fea­come to the events this week," heritage week," said Wong. ture house, industrial and tech­Wong said. "Most of the events "We wanted to plan a week no music. The dance will be are free, so that may be an that was interesting and fun held at South Dining Hall in the incentive." Wong added that all and that many people would Faculty Room on the Second the events are open to every­attend." Wong also said that Floor on Friday night from 9:00 one, except for the brunch. 
Battling adversity and hardships, a Vietnamese refugee flourishes in the United States 
By SHANNON FORBES society. He experiences racial Accent Writer discrimination and prejudice on a daily basis. Tu refuses to let 
The purpose of Asian the discrimination behave as a Heritage Week is to promote handicap and has learned to understanding, awareness and use it to his advantage. " I have appreciation for Asian culture learned to use the fact that I am and history within the Notre a minority as motivation. I will Dame and St. Mary's student never give up without a fight. I body, as well as throughout the am not going to let anyone look community. Becoming aware down on me. Because I am a of the tribulations that Notre refugee, I know that I have to Dame student, Trung Due Tu work twice as hard as anyone has undergone provides a base else to prove myself, to prove on which students can continue that I am worthy of living in to build and increase their America. I am determined to knowledge about Asian cultures be successful in everything I and backgrounds. Tu comes d0." from a family of refugees. His Tu's story is not an uncom­father is Cantonese and his mon one. Many Asians escaped mother is Vietnamese. In 1977 to America after the war in the family fled from a war Indochina. These political stricken country-a war that refugees left behind the oppres­separated families, tormented sion, exploitation, and poverty and killed many innocent peo­of their birth countries in ple, and tore apart Vietnam. search for democracy, hope, 
.­
When Tu was four, he and and freedom. Tu said, "These twenty other relatives were people, like all Americans, have 
Amercian culture.

forced to flee Phan Thiet, South dreams, hopes, aspirations, and 
finally came to America, but it Vietnam War. He said, "I used successful. Tu's parents fought 
Vietnam in an over-crowded, expectations. Asian refugees unsanitary fishing boat. Tu and was not the country they had to just wish that I was anything hard for everything they have came to America looking for 
believed in for so long. Tu said, else but Vietnamese." accomplished and have instilled 
his family experienced 'the American dream'-not for 
appalling hardships during the "Instead of finding loving, car­In spite of his shame, Tu's the same perseverance in Tu. discrimination." ing Americans, we found dis­parents never stopped trying to Tu's mother wanted Tu to ex­
three months they wandered Tu does not blame anyone for 
aimlessly throughout the ocean. crimination and hatred. We instill pride and acceptance perience the best that America Asians' hardships. He only "I remember my father fighting were ridiculed and accused of within their children. The fam­could provide. She enrolled wishes to better inform stu­for a piece of bread for my being dirty, savage, barbaric, ily spoke only Vietnamese in him in private, parochial dents about the tribulations and three year old brother and me yellow-skinned boat people. " their house, and continued to schools, and fifteen years later difficulties that many Asians to share" recalls Tu. Finally He said, " We were blamed practice many Vietnamese cus­Tu is a junior living in have been forced to endure they were 1\escued by a for the deaths of 58,200 sol­toms. Slowly but eventually, Morrissey. while struggling to attain lives Japanese ship and were taken diers who died in Vietnam. We Tu's·parents succeeded. Today Tu looks at his difficult back­that many Americans take for to a Japanese refugee camp. were blamed for the deaths of Tu is a young adult who is ground as a strengthening and granted. Tu asks that people 
While Tu and his family were six students killed on American proud of his Vietnamese her­learning experience. "Don't get "please be understanding and 
college campuses who were itage and proud of being an me wrong, I love this country,"
in the refugee camp their patient with Asians who have 
images of America always pro­protesting the Vietnam war, American. Tu and his family Tu says. "I am grateful that L lifestyles that do not conform to vided incentive and motivation and we were blamed for the not only survived, but flour­have been able to grow up yours or the American way. All to continue preparing for their suicides of over 50,000 Vietnam ished in America. At the begin­between two cultures. I have I ask is that we all treat each new lives. "My family and I Veterans after they returned ning the family picked straw­learned to appreciate and enjoy other with respect." dreamed of America-the land from Vietnam." berries and cucumbers and dug diversity. Even growing up in Understanding the back­of opportunity, equality, and The reactions that Americans worms for a living. After two America, I have not forgotten grounds and lifestyles of people justice; the country that had displayed towards Tu and his years of hard work, Tu's par­my Vietnamese/Chinese her­such as Tu will warrant this fought against Ho Chi Minh and family caused Tu to develop an ents saved enough money to itage. I have learned to be both week a success for the students the Viet Cong for Vietnamese identity crisis. He felt guilty for start one of the first Vietnamese Vietnamese and American." of Notre Dame and St. Mary's freedom," said Tu. being Vietnamese, as if he was stores in Portland, Oregon. Tu believes he is a minority as well as for the community as 
In 1978 Tu and his family responsible for the hated Today their Asian business is living in a Caucasian dominated a whole. 


Photo courtesy of Trung Tu 

educational system but also the 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 15, 1994 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
...  Aunt Eileen is going to kill me if I don't get it back. PLEASE call Tara 4-4836 Found a gold chain in north quad during Spring Break. Owner please give description to Basil at 4-4472. Found: Class ring last summer along AuSable River in Grayling Michigan. Call Mark 517-799-4792. WANTED $750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­0219 SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE THE ENVIRONMENT EARN $2500­$3500 AND MAKE A DIFFER­ENCE. Campaign to save endan­gered species, promote recycling and stop polluters. Work with major national environmental groups such as Sierra Club, Green Corps and the PIRGs. Positions in Indianapolis, 28 states & D.C. Call Jamie: 1-800-75­EARTH. AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 Female roomate (or roomates if you don't mind sharing a room) needed for a Castle Point apart­menl. First semester only! If interested, call Val at 271 -7817 anyone interested in singing, play­ing an instrument, or acting in the freshman class mass on April 1 0, please contact Brian at x1799 Looking for a Used Car in Good Condition. Call 4-2029.  Needed Desperately-A private Calc 1 06 TUTOR 2 or 3 days SUBWAY is NOW HIRING If you are an enthusiastic, depend­able self starter, we would like to talk to you. Flexible hours and friendly atmosphere. Call Jacki or Penny at 277-7744 for an interview. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C6675 SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for handicapped children. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 19 through August 14. Salary, room & board, and experience of lifetime provided. Call or write for applica­lion and informalion. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906)228-5770. ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEG­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 extA29. FOR RENT 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM: $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO. AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPER­TIES 272-6306 BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153  1984 BUICK ELECTRA LTD. LIGHT BLUE 4-DOOR CALL X3001 WI OFFER FOR SALE -INDY 500 TICKETS. GREAT 3RD +4TH TURN ACTION. CALL 272-7233. ROW.......ROW......ROW Have your own rowing machine New Concept II Rowing Ergometer $735 from the factory ... But yours for $650 or B.O. Call4-1507 Trek BOO bike for sale 15" frame, 2 mo. warranty remain­ing at outpost $250 or best offer, call Lee @ 1 x5802 PERSONAL wanted: rider to Raleigh/Greenville NC for Easter Break. Lv Thurs back on Mon at ND. Call Maria X0908 Lv name and #. DAVE CARY--Be afraid ... be very afraid ... revenge will be sweet... TOP TEN-DAYTONA '94 10 I've been nothing but asexual all week 9 I was going to kick his ass until I realized il was 300 lbs 8 Golla love those marble bags 7 2 beds, 2 chicks, no spooning, not even Neil 6 You won't dance on his shoul­ders, you won'l 5 Now which Dave is that? 4 Almonso, Almonso ... 3 You'd be crazy not to get another beer from him before you tell him you have a boyfriend 2 E to the double M 1 How to pass the time in a 20 hr. car ride ... Make up quotes Skyrockets in flight, Afternoon delight! SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­786-8373  all the opportunities you would want for him/her, particularly love, guid­ance and support. We live in the suburbs of an East Coast City. We are active people who love dogs and children but sadly cannot bear our own children. Inquiries should be forwarded to Mr. Charles Rice at 219-237-0904. .......................................... HEY X4022­I HAVE YOUR BIKE LOCK KEY. YOU CAN'T HAVE IT BACK. SUCK IT UP! ........................................... cool shee-it from the woodland land trust: 1. people helping people; and if you can'l help yourself, The THUMB! 2.Nice ... 3. Now ted, if you help thea, it woudn't be us against theo, now would it? 4. chief-our fearless leader 5. holy cross-err-i mean, southern comfort! 6.carol judy-mountain mama 7. whittle, whittle, whittle ... 8. i don't know what that is, but i'll put it down anyways 9.we're on a higher level-dinner 10. teddy, you know the drill... 11. I'm seeing from back here 12. a case of busch lite for $17? ok, we'll take two 13. if this lumina makes it back in one piece, I'm gonna buy one ... 14. some shady looking characters 15. love the outhouse, hate the out­house, but always respect the out­house (hey, someone didn't respect outhouse #11) 16. and your family ... ? 17. God, guns, and guts built the oooooomwa 18. it went wheel, space heater, outhouse ... 19 van 2 >van 1 (sorry kevin) 20. come on eileen! Therese ''The Beacon of Italian Correctness" Madden -Hope your birthday was molte bene and that you were able to get un piccolo ge/atol! Therese Madden and Bill Dailey -­twinners separated at birth??  ing the course -Blue balls, a golf lesson -Well, Notre Dame was certainly the most intense team -1 can't tell if she's skiing or hang­ing on for dear life -Highway to the hole -Sheldon the wonder schlong -LENT -If I only had a needle and thread -This isn't REAL camping -Yes John, you should be scared of Del's new toy -John Boy •• -Little Women -3 strikes and you're out, out of the tent -Christine's going to make a good wife someday -Remain 50ft away from all othe craft -You've got to admit, that's pretty cool for a wall Spring Break in WestKEYII (odd,bizarre, but not peculiar) --I didn't hook up with him in Prague, but I did sleep with him. --whisKEY!! --Do sharks have tongues? --nice towel and great shorts, stylish 'Steve' --OK, the category is members of the US Cabinet --Wouldn't it be funny ... no, wouldn't it be weird if a shark slithered up on the road in front of our car right now?? --Do we tell her about his fatal flaw? --Katie, do you have a brother who lives in Cavanaugh? --PSYCHIATRIST (good job, Tashl) --and then Julie said to Monk, "Don't dulac... do mel" --yeah, Gubi'sll --Cheryl is craZY! --Joe Poe doin' the Spin and Drift --Who was that guy in the "hot bod" contest?? --Boutros Boutros-Ghali, have you ever... ? --the female condom --Well, I might or might not... --Can you not say Tricia Nolan? Is that the game? --Hi, this Fred from the front desk and I know that you have just walked into your room. --on FriDAY, there was a parTY, had too much whisKEY, got a little rowDY, had to assert some authoriTY, had to send people home earlY, hope they weren't anGRY  22. Nanu-nanul 21. There are good things, there are bad things, and then there are just things. 20. Unsane. Untalented. 19. People don't like things that are dumber. 18. You dudes want any buds? 17. So. what do you think of Amsterdam? 16. BBBBEEEEEERRRRRTTTTI 15. Don't think that I'm trying to hit on you, but would you mind sitting on my lap? 14. I think that this is a good time to call gun. 13. This is going to be darn close. 12. Darn, darn close. 11 . Dude, you need an amplifier. 10. I was thinking of adding another string. 9. Her son's a monk going to Tibet and this doesn't bother her? B. I think it's time to break open a can of whup-•ss. 7. I'm sorry, but I didn't believe that you were Swedish. 6. Sir? Sir! You got a pen? 5. You guys know that I love public transportation I 4. My flight's at 7pm. Or maybe it's at 1 or 2 or 3. Actually my flight is at 11:40 am. 3. Dude, I just saw a whale! 2. Oh yeah! Here's your credit card! It's in the cash drawer! 1. You better get this outta here or or the black man come and f•ck you sh•t up! BEWARE THE IDES OF MARCH! This means you, DAVE CARY! Happy Birthday William "Bill" Dailey! Look how many classifieds you got --twice that and then some, Rita! Congratulations Parhad Parhad-Rita!!! We always knew that you were a tiger at heart! Some day, I'm gonna get a big ol' ocean liner and I'm gonna name it the Parhad Parhad-Rita, and then I'm gonna get a little dinghy and I'm gonna name it the Bobita. Did you know that an alligator can run on its hindlegs faster than a human being can for 100 yards?  

1994 NCAA l\IEN'S BASKETBALl~ CHAJ\'IPIONSIIIP 
1st Round 2nd Round Reglonals 
(1) Missouri 25-3 (1~)_t-j~vy1_7~_1? __....~--------------, 
(8) Cincinnati 22-9 ----------------------~ 
(~)-~i~~si~ __1!:.1~.J-------·············----·· Ogden Utah -----------··· (5) California 22-7 Match 17 & 19 (12) Wis.-G.B. 26-6 
................................ 
(4) Syracuse 21-6 (13) Hawaii 18-14 

Loa Angeles March 24 & 26


~--················-·r········-···--·-·-··
April2 

(6J.Ie~!!~_g§:z........... March 25 & 27 (11)_ W: Ky 20-10. _ ) ---------------.-------L_ 
I:;~~~::::n:1;:10 ~-----------------------------~_)
·· Wichita, Kan. ··················· 

(7) St LOUIS 23-5 March 17 & 19 
(10) Maryland 16-11}···························· (2). Massachusetts 27-6 1(15) SW. T~x St. 25_-6 J · -----····· · 
( )seed 
National Championship 
Charlotte, N.C. April4 
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME 
: 
CHAMPION 

Regionals 2nd Round 1st Round 

:·······························{!!~~~;~;):;;~;;::~~;;. 
Knoxville, Tenn. 
March 24 & 26 
(6) Marquette 22-8 

r···..... ········-·····{::::::::<!~;:~:~:~::~~:!· 
----, (3) Kentucky 26-6 '·········· ···················· (14) Tenn. St 19-11 ------st. Pe~;~~u;~·f~o (::\?.i:~;~·~;~~~·~;~:;·~-11( ,..................... ·· · ··j (10) Seton Hall 17-12
i ···························-·. --­
.. 1 
(2) Duke 23-5 

.........-.....................C.!.~-~)..!e!'<l~.~.'?-..2.0.~1.0. 
AP 

It's tourney time for lucky 64 
By JIM O'CONNELL Associated Press 
The bubble talk is over. You've either been invited or popped . The seeding chatter is\ done. You're anywhere from one through 16. 
The NCAA tournament's field of 64 was chosen Sunday and there wasn't a whole lot of controversy. Then again, what do you expect in a year when the top-ranked team changed almost weekly and the word parity was used correctly for a change instead of as an excuse for watered-down competition? 
The shock of "Upset Saturday" had worn off when "Selection Sunday" finally arrived and the No. 1 seeds were the teams most people expected, even if the regions didn't quite match up. 
Arkansas, the Southeastern Conference champion, will be in the Midwest, while Purdue, winners of the Big Ten, go to the Southeast. North Carolina is where it's supposed to be, in the East as Atlantic Coast Conference champions, and Big Eight champion Missouri went West because somebody always has to. 
"We have always tried to keep a team, if, possible, close enough for its' fans to have a chance to see it play," said Tom Butters, the selection committee chair­man and Duke A. D. "Having Arkansas in Oklahoma City gives them a chance and moving Purdue to Lexington was not a severe move toward Purdue." 
ILOST & FOUND I MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES. 
Arthur Victor Painting, Inc. is  
searching for ambitious students to  
fill summer management positions  
throughout Indiana including South  
Gold Loop earring, lost  Bend. Complete training and field  
somewhere between P.E. and  support. High income potential. 1­ 
Juniper Road.  800-775-4745.  

Castle Pl. Apl. for Rent Summer, 94-95 sch yr. Fully Applianced, some furnish. 2 bdrm. 3 rmmates $200.00/mnth Call273-6318 
FOR SALE 

Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Sludent Center Phone 631-COPY 
Professional couple seek lo adopt a newborn baby. Will give your child 
The Besl From Break AND NOW...for Bert's pleasure -If it wasn'l on the list we don't have and enjoyment, a full Top 25 II Quotes from rm. 206's adventures -Date, noun of verb, you decide in LA and San Fran! -This is Christine, she's from Iowa 25. I'm a bom skeptic. -Moms in thongs 24. One of these stories is not true. -Virgin tummies 23. What do they do wilh all of the -That's a 1 stroke penalty for leav-beer that is rejected? 
--------------~----------------------------------------------~--------~---------------------------~--~--------------------~-----------­
Tuesday, March 15, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
44. one player, freshman center In their second round win Chrissie Donahue, fmish in dou­

Women 
over LaSalle, Notre Dame domi­ble figures in scoring. The Irish continued from page 20 nated from the outset, jumping also held a huge edge on the out to a 15-5 lead in the first six boards, out rebounding the 
Beth Morgan led the Irish at­
minutes of play. By the end of Explorers 37-23. Carey Poor led 
tack in both MCC games, scor­
the first half, the Irish had the Irish in the rebounding
ing 15 points in the LaSalle 
extended their lead to 15, and department, grabbing seven, 
game, and amassing 17 points 
an 8-2 run midway through the and Letitia Bowen had six,
in the win over Xavier. Morgan, 

second half put the Explorers nearly three boards below her 
who became 
away for good. 9.6 per game average. 
only the third 
In addition to Morgan's 15, The championship game was 
freshman 
four other Irish players scored not nearly as lopsided as the 
ever to lead 
in double figures. Sherri Or­Irish win two days earlier, as 
the Irish in 
losky scored 14 points, nine of the Irish actually spend some 
scoring and 
which came in the second half, time chasing after a scrappy
the first in 
Letitia Bowen scored 10, Carey Xavier team that led by as 
over 10 
Poor chipped in 10 in 18 min­many as six in the first half. 
years, has 
utes, and Kara Leary scored 12 Notre Dame's depth, defense,
a v e r a g e d Beth Morgan 
points to go along with a team and field goal shooting enabled 
17.6 points in the team's 28 
high seven assists. them to come out on top in the 
games this season, and leads 
Defensively, the Irish shut end, as the Irish claimed their 
the team in three pointers with 
down LaSalle, which saw just filth MCC championship in the 
GRADUATION STUDENT WORKERS CATERING 




MAY 6-15 


Free room/board $6.00 per hour 
ROOM CONTRACT SIGN UPS BEGIN MARCH 15 from lOAM-5PM LAST DAY TO SIGN CONTRACTS APRIL 4 
CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE LOWER LEVEL-SOUTH DINING HALL 631-5449 
last six years with their 72-63 win. Four Irish players fmished in double figures, with Morgan leading the way with 17, and Letitia Bowen recorded her 20th career double double with her 16 point, 14 rebound per­formance. 
Xavier's big threat, Carol Madsen, was held scoreless in the first half, and finished the game with only nine points on 3-12 shooting. Tournament MVP Lynn Bihn paced the Musketeers with 18 points and 11 rebounds, and Amy Siefring had 13 points in the loss. 
With their performance in the MCC tournament, the Irish have now won their last six games, and 11 of their last 12 games. The 1993-1994 squad has had an incredible season, and hopes to continue their success in the NCAA Tournament. 
Morgan, who has earned MCC Newcomer of the Year, first team all-MCC, and two MCC Player of the Week honors in her first season in an Irish uni­form, attributed both her own and the team's success to a solid team effort. 
"Both games last week in­volved a total team effort," said Morgan. "Everybody stepped up and contributed. We all played well, and we achieved our goal of making it to the NCAA's." 
"I had high expectations for this season, as did the whole team," continued Morgan. "The coaching I've received here has been influential, and the play­ers also have helped me step up my game." 


Mental illness has warning signs, too. 
For a free booklet about mental illness and its warning signs, write to or call: 
National Mental Health Association P.O. Box 17389, Washington, D.C. 20041 
1-800-969-NMHA. 


Fencing 
continued from page 20 
both men's foil and sabre. Siek went on to defeat teamate Stan Brunner 5-4/5-3 and Lester downed Baez in a well-fought 5-1/1-5/5-3 match. Panyi held of challenges from Ohio State's two top fencers to secure the gold. She defeated Rita Borbley 3-5/5-1/5-2 in the semifinals and Carin Wolf 5­3/5-4 in the fmals. 
"The foil teams, as expected, fenced brilliantly, while the sabre team finishing one and two was a pleasant surprise," said DeCicco. 
"We wanted to fence well in the individual portion so that we could use it as a spring­board for the team portion," commented DeOcco. 
That spring was evident the next day as the sabre team was first to qualify and attain the only sabre berth from the mid­west. In the fmals, senior cap­tain Chris Hajnik won a crucial 5-3 bout over Aaron Smith, while Lester was 3-0 to lead the Irish. 
Men's epee provided the biggest surpise of the day as the upset top seed and power­ful Wayne State in the finals.Senior Rian Girard stunned the individual champ, Bauder,5-2 with junior Rakesh Patel upsetting John Olijnyk 5­
2. Silver medalist, Wozniak, also added two important wins in the finals for the Irish. 
The awesome combination of juniors Conor Power and Brunner and Siek amazingly lost only two bouts in winning all five matches on the day in­cluding a 5-1 pounding of the Buckeyes in the finals. 
Women's foil also proved their depth, dispatching Ohio State 9-4 in the finals without Panyi who is ineligible for post­season competition. 
Seniors Kim Arndt, Corinne Dougherty, and Didi Garcia and sophomores Claudette De Bruin and Mindi Kalogera all helped to prove that they are the best in the midwest. 
Finally, women's epee won the gold by finishing 3-1 in a round robin competition, beat­ing out Northwestern and Ohio State in the tiebreaker. 
"We have earned this and we deserve to send all four weapons with our perfor­mances this weekend," stressed DeCicco. "We are ready for the next level." 
Indian Ridge Plaza Next to Yenture Grape Rd., Mlehawaka 277-7948. expire• 3131194 

'-­

page 14 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 15, 1994 Tuesday, March 15, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

an excellent job of passing out Dame's high-point man with 15 of the double team," MacLeod and Lamarr Justice and Joe 
Women's tennis earns 5th
Men 
said. "And what a. delight Joe Ross each added 11. Ross has been." But even in the happy atmo­
continued from page 20 
Those double teams (and even sphere of a season-ending win, at top tourney, boost mark 

It was two Cozen 3-pointers that keyed a 12-0 Irish run to open the game, but Dayton re­bounded to pull to within two midway through the first half. 
The Irish lead grew to 12 at halftime behind two Joe Ross baskets and Ryan Hoover's 3­pointer. 
Dayton never seriously threat­ened in the second half. "Cozen was really cooking at times and Monty (Williams) did 
some triple teams) held Williams to a season-low nine points, but didn't seem to mind. 
"I was very comfortable with my role today," he said. "I was double and triple-teamed and I had to adjust to the defense." 
Notre Dame's defense couldn't handle Dayton freshman Shawn Haughn, who scored a game­high 19 points, including 5-for­9 from 3-point range. 
• Keith Kurowski was Notre 


Happy 21st 
Birthda~ 

Monica! tove yal 
Rachel, Alyssa &Amy 
the Irish couldn't dodge the what-ifs. 
By KATE CRISHAM A team that beats Missouri, 
Spons Writer UCLA and scares the Blue Devil 
The Notre Dame women's
out of Duke shouldn't struggle tennis team proved this week
against the Manhattans and 
that they are worthy of beingDuquesnes of the college bas­
ranked among the nation's
ketball world. 

elite.
But that's what happened. 

The 17th-ranked Irish tied
A six-game midseason losing for fifth place with Indiana atstreak essentially ended Notre the prestigious National IndoorDame's post-season hopes. 
Championships in Madison last"If we had been able to split week, before improving theirthose games, we'd be 15-14 record to 9-2 with wins over
and going somewhere," 
San Diego and San Diego State. 
MacLeod said. 

The Irish defeated 18th­
Now they're just going home. 
ranked Brigham Young 5-2 onAt least they can look back on 
Thursday before losing to a
their final game with a smile. 

ONE AcT PLAY~ 
Presented by: The Junior Class When: Wednesday, March 16 at 7:10p.m. Cost: Only $2 at LaFortune Info Desk or at The Door 
All proceeds go to the Colleen Hipp .. Meghan Beeler Memorial Fund 
formidible 3rd-ranked Stanford team 6-0 on Friday. They de­feated lOth-ranked Arizona 5-2 on Saturday to garner fifth place. 
"We definitely had a good week, " said a pleased head coach Jay Louderback. "We beat four ranked teams, and played some close matches against Stanford." 
In the match against Brigham Young,17th-ranked sophomore Wendy Crabtree was defeated by 28th-ranked Jennifer Saret 4-6, 2-6 in number-one singles. Crabtree later joined with senior teammate Usa Tholen to defeat Saret and Michelle Domanico 6-2, 6-3 in number­one doubles. 
Sophomore Holyn Lord 

defeated Evi Kolijanin 7-5, 6-0 
at number-two singles. 
Against Stanford, Crabtree 
and Lord both dropped tough 
three set matches. 
The Irish bounced back the 
next day against Arizona, how­
ever. 
Crabtree defeated 29th­
ranked Celine-Verdier 6-0, 7-6 
in number-one singles. Lord 
was a double winner, defeating 
Focused Futures 

CS Rrst Boston has made a firm-wide commitment to career development. That is just good common sense because people are our most valuable asset. Our profes­sional development program includes training, mentoring and team responsibilities. And it provides employees with the knowledge and experience needed to maximize the # opportunities they will find during their careers. 
CS First Boston continues to be a leader in the invest­ment banking community, developing innovative products and services -consistently and successfully. 
For more than 60 years, and in 20 countries 
worldwide, our employees-in areas including 
Investment Banking, Public Finance, Sales and 
Trading, and Research -have worked to help 
shape the face of global finance. 
As you consider your first career move, set 
your sights on CS First Boston. 

~ CS FIRST BosToN 
~ 
Michelle Oldham 7-5. 6-4 at number-two singles, before teaming with Terri Vitale to de­feat Ashley Miller and Allison Grace 6-4, 7-6 at number-three doubles. 
Three Irish players recorded double wins against San Diego State. Crabtree defeated Lisa Alidaz 6-3, 6-1 at number-one singles, then joined with Tholen to defeat Emma Doyle and Shawn Egan 6-2, 6-4 at num­ber-one doubles. 
Tholen defeated Christy Propstra 6-2, 6-2 at number­five singles. Lord defeated Tanya Lauer 6-2, 6-3 at num­ber-two singles, before teaming with Terri Vitale at number­three doubles to defeat Lauer and Propstra 6-1, 6-4. 
Louderback praised the effort 
of his team, especially Lord's. 
"Holyn went 4-1 over the week at number two singles," he said. "She had the key win for us against San Diego (against Laura Richards 3-6, 6­2, 7-5)." 
"So far, we've defeated six teams ranked in the top 25," said Louderback."Hopefully, we'll continue improving, and reach our main goal, which is to get into the tournament." 

~­
r Take, a Coffee Break 
Costa Rica  $165  
Guatcmalil  $155  
Colulllbia  $330  
Kenya  $709  
Java  $650  

fores ore each Wf1f based on • roo..ndtrip ~ from Chicago. T<OreS oot included and ~tions apply. Call forokrworldwide destinotions. 

Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor CNcago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 
Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels magazine 



t} .-f "..• ~ ••• 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 15, 1994 

Men's tennis enjoys spring break Hawaiian style, 5-0 
When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the Univetsity of Notre Dame for colkge gradu;Hes interested in exploring the possihility or a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or hrothcr. Scholarship assistance is avitilahle. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley. C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon. C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)631-63X5 
_;M_ 
.1\11 !I M/\1-Y ·, • · 1111 • I 

t\ORffiU CEM i ER 
fU~ Htr <l1 k' IS 

Friday, March 18,8 p.m., Olaughlin Auditorium 
Ingenious arrangements. and suave performances, with selections ranging from Mozart to Ellington. 
_, 
Saint Mary's students $3* 
SUNDAY, MARCH 20,7:30 P.M., CHURCH OF LORETTO A CONCERT CELEBRATING THE I 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
SOUTH BEND CHAMBER SINGERS • AVE MARIA FEATURING THE MASS BY NORMAN DELLO JOIO liM6) ADMISSION FREE • DONATIONS WELCOME ~ 
*Discounts available for SM's-ND community. Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 
p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 
219/2 84-462 6. 


Sprouse's three hour marathon In their final match of their sophomore Jason Pun make the 
match against Tallakson to take stay in Hawaii, against a com­difference with key victories in the spotlight off of Zurcher's petitive Oklahoma State team, the bottom half of line-up. upset. the sun took a Mexican siesta "To be honest," stated Coach 
This magnificent comeback and both squads felt their first Bayliss, "I couldn't have drawn victory left the crowd emotion­bit of the infamous Pacific rain. up a better spring break on pa­ally charged and Mike Sprouse per. The players played excep­
dehydrated, exhausted and In addition, Notre Dame's tionally well, the facilities were ready to hit the beach. farewell match, which was sus­excellent and, most impor­pended twice by the rain, saw tantly, I got a swee't tan." Without Sprouse in the line-up 
SPORTS BRIEFS

against Oklahoma, due to phys­ical beating he took the day 
.• offerin so~cer·cUnic·on:~~d;.M~~.~h.
before, more pressure fell on 
. · ....·... ouse. T~e clinic~ be co-q:

Andy Zurcher, who beat Brett 
otte ~~!Pe varsit~ s()ccer. teams; Th~.f'e will be 
Zuschner in straight sets, Ryan 
p~\lSteebniqtie. ~nd skilfQriUs. · ·· · Simme, who defeated Delana 6­4, 6-4, and senior Todd Wilson, 
.. ••·•.•••·.·$~ok~;~re Ba$~etball.·.·~~~j• =····Ma~.··~i~~ps·••·.~~7l ·~~I.f6 ..i\ri~··.· 
who pulled off a thrilling three 
··18. J,.at~ !lignups ($l~) Mar 19 ~4 2(). See ads for rrJ,9i!!) details. 
set victory at No. 3 singles. 
Attention Juniors interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Wal.ter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadlme dates and the Fall application process on . 
Tuesday, March 15, 1994 
6:30 p.m. 101 Law School 
If you ru:e un~ble to atte~d this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtamed m 1 02-B 0 Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
The future is here: 


Macintosh with 
~technology. 
The Notre Dame Computer Store invites you to witness this breakthrough. 
Wednesday, March 16,1994 10:30 -4:30 
Formal presentations 10:30, 12:00, 1:30, 3:00 116 DeBartolo 
Faculty & Staff Reception 5:00-7:00 University Club Main Lounge 


By PHIL LANGER 
Sports Writer 
How did Spring Break 1994 treat the No. 14 Nntre Dame men's tennis team? It was frankly a Hawaii 5-0 experi­ence. 
The Irish beat Hawaii, Chaminade, Ball State, Okla­homa and Oklahoma State without dropping one point; 7-0 to be technical. 
"It's hard for me to know," commented Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss, "were we playing that well or were they simply vacationing in Hawaii?" 
Let's hope for Notre Dame's upcoming opponents that it was the latter of the two. 
The Irish began their Pacific road trip by handidly beating Hawaii. 
"They're not a great team," remarked Coach Bayliss, "but respectable enough to pose problems for Division I. None of the matches were close to be honest." 
The second team on Notre Dame's hit list was Chaminade. 
Fifth-year senior Andy Zurcher, freshman phenom Ryan Simme and senior Todd Wilson, the top three singles players for the Irish, sat out the match due to the lack of com­petition. 
The player that stepped up to provide the spark, which the forementioned three usually provide, was talented junior Horst Dziura, who won both his singles match 6-0, 6-0 and his doubles match with sophmore John Jay O'Brien 8-0 seemingly in an effortless manner. 
It wasn't until Notre Dame woke up to face No. 33 Ball State that the heat of Hawaii wouldn't realistically be the Irish's toughest opponent of the day. 
The upset of this matchup 
came when senior Andy 
Zurcher, the captain and emo­
tional on and off-court leader, 
beat No. 14 Amos 6-4, 7-5. 
It would take sophmore Mike 



------~--------------------------­



rc-­
Tuesday, March 15, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Early exit from playoffs ends Irish icers' season 
Where there's food there's Cargill. Our diverse businesses supply farmers and trade, store, process and transport agricultural commodities. In addition, we operate a wide range of industrial t
businesses and fmancial services. 
A key to our growth over the past 128 years is exceptional employees. We have a strong culture of keeping our people challenged with opportunities for career growth--including the chance to Faculty Upper Room Series move to new positions in other divisions of the company. We reward good performance by promoting Dinner-Discussion from within whenever possible. As a privately held company, we are able to make substantial 
"Faith and Professional Life: 
reinvestments in our businesses to give our people the resources to achieve success. 
Hazards and Opportunities"
We invite you to consider growing with us. If you're looking for a career that offers plenty of challenges, relocation, opportunities for advancement, and a diversity of business options, Cargill WEDNESDAY
may have a career for you. 23 March 1994
Recruitment dates are as follows: Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00p.m.-Discussion until9:00 p.m. March 22, 1994 --Information Systems Speaker Professor Kenneth M. Sayre Department of Philosophy 
Reservations: Return the form received in the mail or simply call John Gerber, C.S.C. at 1-8601 or Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by Monday, March 21, at latest. 
0MPUS 
MlNlSTRY 
University of Noire Dame Noire Dame. IN 46556


~~'¢ 
I d1141y t:our.nut~ll;! 19-?39 (i!'.11\ 
llotOin H11ll!9•2Jq 5242 F1sr11~r r:IJrmnurulr r.~u•' ?19•131f·Mtll 

~ Speaks for Itself ~ 
Pan8born Hall presents....



CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR 
Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. 
•

Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. 
&unday, March 20 
STUDENT ACCOMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. WE TAKE SECURI1Y AND SAFE1Y SERIOUSLY. 
3 p.m. at Washington Hall 
Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff 
$3 admission 
Call Dorene NOW 272--1441 
Proceeds lo: The Boys and Girls Club 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Writer 
Winning their last three games of the regular season, the Notre Dame hockey team was all set to make a run in the CCHA playoffs. 
However, the Irish hardly got out off the box, as their season came to an abrupt end last weekend at the hands of West­ern Michigan. 
The first-round exit, the result of Friday's 6-3 defeat and Sat-
From Minnesota to Kansas, from Florida to Tennessee, from the United Kingdom to Japan and South America ... you will find Cargill. We employ more than 66,000 employees at more than 800 locations in almost 60 countries. 
urday's 7-1 drubbing, was a tough way to end a somewhat disappointing season, but the young Irish (7 of the 10 top scorers were underclassmen), Irish are confident they will be able to learn from it. 
"We didn't accomplish all our goals," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. "But we were an im­proved team and I think we gained some respect through­out the conference." 
The problem was that West­ern Michigan earned a fair 
Grow With Us. 
amount of respect this season as well, and the Irish saw why. 
Notre Dame's Brent Lamppa scored the first goal of the se­ries just 3:24 into play. That would be the last lead of the season for the Irish. 
WMU's Misha Lapin tied the score a minute later. This would be just the first of five unanswered goals for the Broncos, as the Irish found themselves down 5-1 midway through the second period. 
As they have down on numer­ous occasions this year, the Irish climbed back into the game in the third period on the strength of Davide DalGrande and Tim Harberts (CCHA player of the week for the last week of regular season) tallies to cut the lead to just one. 
"We had our moments," said Schafer. "Three power play goals is good but we missed our opportunities." 
These missed opportunities ultimately did in the Irish, as Western would notch an insur­ance goal to account for the fi­nal count. 
The comeback attempt seem­ingly took a heavy toll on the Irish, as they came out flat the next night. 
This is not the way to enter a must-win game. WMU, especially forward Colin Ward, capitalized. Led by Ward's four scores, the Broncos scored five times in ten 
minutes, spanning the end of the first and start of the second periods. 
Ward was anything but hum­ble about his success. "I thought, 'Wow, this is get­ting easy," he commented. 
As much as they wanted to get back into the game and make Ward pay for his cockiness, they just didn't have enough left. 
John Rushin scored with un­der five minutes remaining to avoid the shut-out, but Notre Dame season was done. 
Not all was bad though. 
"Two of our goals were to win more games and finish higher in the standings, so we did im­prove this season," said Schafer. "We fell short of our goal of reaching the champi­onships at Detroit, but we're a step closer to achieving that next year." 
-------~--------~~ --~--~--~----------~-------------------~ 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 15, 1994 
21st ranked Irish go 4 for 6 during southern trip 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sporu Writer 
If the Notre Dame baseball team is going to succeed this year, it is going to take a total team effort with contributions from every player. 
The 21th-ranked Irish base­ball squad (4-2) did just that as it opened the season with strong showings against two respected Southern teams over the spring break. Notre Dame went 2-1 against both Tulane and Alabama in a pair of three­game series. 
"In my seven years at Notre Dame, this is as good of a demonstration (of teamwork) as there is," said a pleased coach Pat Murphy. 
A number of players con­tributed offensively including sophomore George Restovich who hit .400 with two doubles, Matt Haas who hit .375 includ­ing a 4-for-4 performance against Tulane, and Robbie Kent and Greg Layson who fin­ished the week with six-game hit streaks for the week. 
Freshmen Dennis Twombley, Scott Sollmann and Mike Am­rhein notched their first colle­giate hits over the break. 
Epitomizing the team con­cept, the pitching staff used four or more pitchers in four of the games as 10 different pitch­er saw playing time. Senior Tom Price handled the mound duties in the other two games. 
Opening the season with a 8­2 victory over Tulane, the Irish hitters combined for 10 hits in­cluding four in a three-run sixth inning. Paul Failla's dou­ble in that inning drove in two runs while Layson, Haas, Mark Mapes, and Twombey added run scoring hits in the game. 

In the second Tulane game the Irish shut out the Green Wave, 9-0, with a three-run second inning (2-run Restovich homer) and a six-run ninth inning. 
Four Irish pitchers combined their talents for the five-hit shutout victory as A. J. Jones took the win with a four inning relief appearance. 
The first loss of the season came in the final game of the Tulane series as the Green Wave downed the Irish 6-2 as pitcher Ivan Zweig baffled the hitters through six innings. 
Zweig allowed only five hits while striking out eight in an eight inning performance. Topham and Kent scored the only Irish runs in the game in the seventh inning. 
Against Alabama, the Irish lost the first game of the series 5-2 as the Crimson Tide mas­tered their own team concept. Three Alabama pitchers com­bined to hold Notre Dame to seven hits while the Alabama hitters notched two doubles and a round tripper off Irish starter Price. 
Notre Dame avenged the se­ries-opening loss with a 5-4 
WE'LL PAY YOU $33~~0. 
TOWARD YOUR DIPLUMA. 
You can earn more than $16,750 during a standard Army Reserve enlistment ... and another $6,840 if you qualify for the Montgomery GI Bill ... plus help in paying off a qualified student loan up to $10,000, ifeligible. 
You11 usually serve one weekend a month plus two weeks' Annual Training. And you11 serve with an Army Reserve unit near your campus. 
Over $33,500 toward college-for part-time serVIce. 
1bink about it Then think about us. Then call: (219) 234~4187 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE: 

ARMY RESERVE 


come from behind victory in the gave the Irish an early lead three-run homer and a run second game. with a two-run homer. scoring double. The home run Mapes' two-out, two-run sin­In the rubber game Notre put the Irish ahead for good in gle in the top of the eighth Dame defeated Alabama 10-7 a five-run seventh inning. Haas drove in Layson and Sollmann thanks to the contributions of went 3-for-4 while Kent and and gave the Irish a one-run Topham at the plate. The Layson extended their hitting 
edge. In the fifth inning, Kent sophomore went 2-for-3 with a streaks to six games. 
t 

LENTEN FACULTY RETREAT 
For Single and Married Notre Dame and St. Mary's Faculty and Spouses 
Friday, March 18 Saturday, March 19 8:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 
A time of quiet and persanal reflection, the retrent will include opportunity for shared reflection on the biblical texts for the Sundays of Lent. 
Offered by: Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. and John Gerber, C.S.C. Place: Mary's Solitude on the St. Mary's College Campus Cost: $35.00 per person, three Saturday meals included. 
RESERVATIONS ARE REQUESTED BY MAROi 14, BUT WILL BE ACCEPTED UNITL MARGI 16. Contact Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Graduate Residences 631-8606 or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. 


~ Reception for 
~ Reading from 
The Coach's lllife 





at Gr~~nfi~ld'~ Gaf~ 4 to 5:30 p.m. Mareh 17. 1994 



Tuesday, March 15, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

SPELUNKER 
W£ RESUME. 1~£ 5£M£5Te;. R 1 N THE coM PAN'{ Of A M'/STERIOUS HooDeD FI(:,UI<E. · 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1-11>-\-11>.! 11\E'i J\lS\ fiMOO\-ICE\) 'i£5.1 11-\E 'SCI-\CC>l'S A.R£ C\.O'St:D.' '{ES.' \IS A. ~OW DA.'I.. .' 'iES.' 'tll-lEtEE.EEE.! 'IE'S! 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 




RIGI-\T, 13\lT '11\t.RE'S O~t.R TWa KEI Of S~v-.1 \1-\to..\ REQ\l\RES G\lR IMMt.DIP..TE f>.NO \l~OIIJIDED ATIENno~. 


OF INTEREST 




ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
:,:;.+:..;.+::;+.;:-+;-~ 
':+.+.+:'-r.:-1 11 Candid cameraman 12Der­(Adenauer) ~~~ 13Kruppfamily home 18 Tall writing? 19 Tiny swimmer 23 Took off 
~W.~I·Er~mm 24 Director 
::;. Marshall -:+.:'-E+=-1 25 "Othello" plotter =+:,;+.:::;+=-! 26 Item in a locket =+-::+.::-+.:i-4 27 Collimate .;..;.o;...;.o.;;;;~ 28 Moose, e.g. 
56Y 60 Organ setting 61 Type style 62 Eros 63 Ruptured 64 Tell's target 65 Currycomb 
target 
DOWN 
1 Investigate, in a way 
2 Tribe whose name means "cat people" 
3 Old gray animal? 
4 Some ratings 5 Newgate guard 6 1966 Caine role 7Wagons-­a German cry 9 Bishop's 
domain 1 o Solo 29Divans 30 Opera prop 31 Pioneer atom 

splitter 32 Kingfisher's coif 34-deballet 37 Opposite of hire 38 St. Patrick's 
home 39 Publicity 45 Conductor 
Ormandy 46 Analyze verse 47 Skier's site 54 Caddie's 
48 Dietary offering 
49-Point 55 Home of 
so"-victory!·· Jezebel 
51 Stink 57--la-la 
52 Substitute 58 School dance 
53 Cougar 59 Scottish cap 

.. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
ACROSS 
1 Rig 
5 Big dos 10 At a distance 14 Ur locale 15 New York's 
-Tully Hall 16 Berg opera 17M 20 Kicker's aid 21 Names in a 
Saudi phone 
book 22 Bury 23 Cut and run 24 Yearn 26 Talk radio guest 29 Playwright 
O'Casey 30 Army rank, for short 
33 African lily 34 Brazzaville's 
river 35 Through 3&H 40 Faberge objet 41 Collection 42 Candied items 43 1969 Three Dog 
Night hit 44 Pup's complaints 45 Talent for 
cocktail talk 47 Some heirs 48 Time founder 49 "Orlando" 
author 52 Forum fashion 53 Quarry 
•

The Obse~ve~ IS 

Fo~ mo~e info~mation1 contact: News Spods Acce~t P~od L-\ctio~ Photo9~aphy Sa~ah Do~a~ Weo~9e Doh~ma~~ Ma~y Wood 3ackie Mose~ Scott Me~de~hall 631-5323 631-4543 631-4540 631-5303 631-5323 





SPORTS 
page 20 
Men's hoop ends year smiling 

By JASON KELLY Associate Spans Editor 
It must have felt lonely, saying goodbye to strangers. 
But the seniors on the Notre Dame men's basketball team have never been overwhelmed with support. 
Their careers came to a quiet end with a 72-66 win over Dayton, with their classmates away on spring break. 
It was a bittersweet ending to a bittersweet season with more what-ifs than wins. 
"A conference tournament and a chance to get into the NCAA Tournament would be perfect for us the way we're 
Irish get date to Dance 
Minnesota first round foe for women's basketball 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
Break out the dancing shoes. 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team secured a spot in the NCAA Tournament over spring break, when they won the MCC Tournament to gain an automatic bid to the big dance. 
The Irish, who had a first round bye in the tournament, defeated LaSalle 79-55 in second round action on March 6, and topped Xavier 72-63 in the championship game on March 8, thereby assur­ing the team of a bid in the NCAA's. 
The Irish will be making only the second trip to the big dance in the history of the program. This year's 22-6 team has much more promise than the streaky 1991-1992 squad that fell in first round action, and are looking to get past Minnesota in first round action this Wednesday night at the JACC. 
see WOMEN I page 13 

playing," said senior Jon Ross. 
Instead, the Irish have to watch the games at Coach's like everybody else. 
But they walk away winners. Few teams in college basket­ball end their season with a victory. 
"This was a great win for the seniors," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "It's good to see them leave on a positive note." 
Carl Cozen left on the most positive note of his career. a 12­point performance that tied his career high set on November 15, 1990 in his first college game. 
see MEN I page 15 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek Letitia Bowen is looking to lead her teammates in their second NCAA tournament berth in three years. 
AP 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek Senior Monty Williams and his classmates ended their careers on an upnote, as they defeated Dayton at home on March 5. 
Fencers send group to NCAA's 
By JOE VILLINSKI SportS Writer 

In a season that has been filled with mostly high­lights for the undefeated Notre Dame fencing teams, the weekend of 
5-6
March 
Greg Wozniak 
may qualify as the brightest one yet. 

Both the men and women thoroughly dominated the com­petition, both in team and indi­vidual, at the NCAA Midwest Championships. 
While three Irish fencers took first in their individual events on the 5th, the team qualified all four weapons for the NCAA Championships, beginning next weekend. 
The women's epee team also took home the gold in their last meet of the season since the event will not be NCAA sanc­tioned until next year. 
"For us to win five golds is more than we had a right to expect," said men's head coach Mike DeCicco. "I got the sense from the very start of the day, though, that the entire team was on a crusade to earn re­spect and prove to everyone that our unbeaten records are deserved." 
As for the individual competi­tion. underclassmen led the way with three gold medals. Freshmen Jeremy Siek and Bill Lester and sophomore Maria Panyi took gold, while seniors Greg Wozniak and Bernard Baez and junior Stan Brunner added silver medals for the Irish. 
"Winning three golds was crucial in qualifying all four of our weapons in team competi­tion," added DeCicco. 
It was an all-Irish affair in 
see FENCING I page 13 

-
~· 





