


Orsagh downplays letter 
By KATE CRISHAM Assistant News Editor 

What might appear to be dis­sension in the ranks of the Stu­d e n t Government office is in reality noth­ing more than a simple 
diff~re~ce of ~~....·..

Opinion, ••·. according to ··· Student Body President­elect David Hungeling and Vice President­elect Matt Orsagh. 
A letter from Orsagh that ap­pears in The Observer today responds to a letter sent by Hungeling and current Student Body President Frank Flynn to South Bend Police Chief Ron Marciniak criticizing the behav­ior of the police department during their St. Patrick's Day raid on Lafayette Square. 
In his letter, Orsagh ex­presses concern that Hungeling and Flynn are continuing "to waste their time on futile en­deavors" by writing "a letter that comes off as whiny and 
Cavanaugh Hall residents took advantage of the warm weather self-important." a game of basketball. Notre Dame students also stayed out­
But Notre Dame students
enjoy the sunshine. 
David Hungeling 

Extra fat more risky for m·en 
By ZOE MARIN for them," Brown explained. little bit about yourself in 20 News Writer Even though women don't years." share the same fat-related He attributed much of the 
Since the beginning of the health risks as men, they have obesity problem to jobs that century, ideal weights for women have continually de­creasea while those for men have remained fairly constant, alumnus Peter Brown said in a lecture yesterday about the cui­
• see DISORDERS, page 5 
tural influences of weight. 
"However, this puts males are at greater risk for cardiovascu­lar disease," Brown said. 
He went on to say that men should be more concerned about their amount of body fat then they currently are. 
Genetic factors play a leading role in contributing to this in­creased risk. Fat is stored in different places for men and women. In men, fat is located specifically in the abdominal area. 
"This fat is dangerous be­cause diseases such as hyper­tension, diabetes, stroke, and some cancers have been linked to it," Brown said. 

Seniors discuss the SMC Experience 
have no reason to fear that the Student Government office is being plagued by dissention and political infighting. Both Hungeling and Orsagh claim that the two letters represent nothing more than a personal difference of opinion. 
"I wouldn't say that it (the letter) is a big deal," said Orsagh. "I just thought it would be kind of fun, to keep us light." 
"I'm not trying to defame Dave and Frank in any way," he said. "We're going to dis­agree on things. It would suck if we would agree on every­thing." 
Hungeling agreed that the uproar over the letters amount­ed to much ado about nothing. 
"I knew that his opinion (of our letter) was different than ours when we wrote it," said Hungeling. "I don't have any problem with his writing it." 
"It's just a disagreement," he continued. "I think it's good that there ·are two people in of­fice with different ideas, and I respect his right to write his own response." 
However, Hungeling be­lieves that the sexual assault which occurred at Lafayette the morning after the raid raises the stakes of his disagreement with the police department. 
"If the goal of the police is truly to protect and serve, then we must look at all aspects of crime," said Hungeling. "There are some aspects of crime, including sexual assault, which are more important than the 
By JESSICA BATTLE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's seniors Anna Marie Tabor and Melissa Whe­lan discussed their college ex­perience, from the fears of freshman year, to the sadness of graduation, as part of the ongoing Sesquicentennial celebration of St. Mary's College, in a lecture entitled "How St. Mary's College has Influenced Me." 
Tabor, who is a humanistic studies major, claims that she came to St. Mary's for "love". 
She said she was extremely impressed when she received phone calls and personal let­ters giving her information on the programs of St. Mary's, and that encouraged her to attend the following year. 
"I learned about worlds more than I ever dreamed. St. Mary's broadened my mind and channeled my ambitions." 
Tabor claimed that attending St. Mary's has given her a new fervor for learning. "St. Mary's College is a fireplace of learn­ing. All you do is poke it and sparks go everywhere." 
Tabor believes that she will be leaving with more than a transcript. She has found out that she shouldn't "be afraid to follow her heart." 
When asked if she could do it all again, would she come to St. 
possibility of underage drink­ing." 
Both Hungeling and Orsagh are optimistic about the prospects for the upcoming year. 
"Right now we're in the pro­cess of interviewing people for our cabinet," said Hungeling. "We've been having a lot of motivated people apply for po­sitions." 
"The biggest change (from previous administrations) will hopefully be in our attitude," he said. "I'm pretty excited about the way people are respond­ing." 
The current period of transi­tion has afforded Hungeling and Orsagh a chance to famil­iarize themselves with both the current administration and the process of student government itself. 
"Frank is a really nice guy, now that I've gotten a chance to meet him," said Hungeling. "We would have probably con­ducted the election in a differ­ent way because we now real­ize that student government does have an impact on student life." 
"Hopefully, it will have even more of an impact with us, ei­ther through our attitude change, or what we could ac­complish," he said. 
"We're going to try to do all we can," said Orsagh. "Hopefully, the people we went to the trouble of interviewing will think of some fun stuff, 
see LEITER I page 4 
Mary's College, she responded "affirmatively and passionate­ly." 
While Tabor focused on more broad topics of St. Mary's, Melissa Whelan focused on the spiritual aspect of life at St. Mary's. 
Whelan explored how being a part of St. Mary's College has helped her understand the spiritual growth she watched in others. She later found out that the spiritual growth had taken place within herself as well. 
Whelan said that she consid­ered transferring her first semester, but "began to meet women that challenged her." "Not transferring was one of the best decisions I've ever made," she stated. 
Whelan believes that St. Mary's has led her to a new hunger for answers. "Now I seem to question everything. Listening to others helps me see things in a different way." 
"The legacy of St. Mary's," Whelan explained, "is the dif­fere,nt ways of worship that thrive in the St. Mary's com­munity." 
"I feel very grateful and blessed to have gone here for the past years," Whelan said as she addressed her feelings on attending St. Mary's College. 
For women, fat is stored mainly in the thighs, hips, and buttocks. "This type of fat car­ries no increased health risk, as it does with men. Losing this fat is purely cosmetic and cul­tural," Brown said. 
Genetically speaking, fat stor­age was an advantage for man's ancestors since it guar­anteed energy in times of food scarcity. 
"Economic modernization allows for better access for calorie-dense, fatty foods, and you don't have to work as hard a harder time losing weight than men. "This fat is saved for and consumed during preg­nancy and breast feeding," Brown said. 
Women also tend to have problems with anorexia and other eating disorders. 
"There is an over-concern with the type of fat that does not carry health risks," Brown said. 
Brown related much of his lecture to the typical Notre Dame alumni, stating, "Those drunken alumni could tell you a consist of low activity work and high stress. 
"They (the alumni) have a tendency to medicate them­selves through food and alco­hol. It's easy to become fat in the United States." 
According to Brown, distorted body images also play a role. "Men get in front of the mirror, suck in their gut, and think 'I'm not that fat."' 
Brown will be holding an in­formal discussion tomorrow in the Hesburgh Library lounge from 4-5 p.m. 
Wednesday, March 23, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 110 Till: INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SEI\VING NlYI RL DAME AND SAINT MARY\ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE I . 
What about the other holocausts? 
This past Monday, when I should have been studying for an Analytical Chern test, I managed to catch the end of the Academy Award Ceremony and saw Stephen Spielberg receive two Oscars, both for his movie "Schindler's List." During his second acceptance 
Eric Ruethling 
speech he pleaded to the 
Photographer

crowd that we should never let the holocaust "become a footnote in his­tory." He stressed teaching it in the schools, and encouraged all of us to pass the horror down to our children. 
I hold the utmost disgust for the holocaust, and I feel that it is important to remember those years. However, as time has progressed the some its impact has already drifted off into obscurity. 
Spielberg alluded to the death of six million Jews during the holocaust in his first acceptance speech. Most of us, tragically, do not realize how much six million is. You could sit down with your pencil and paper, and scribble six mil­lion x's at one a second for almost seventy days. Stop for a moment and contemplate how large this number actually is. 
But there is more. Everyone should be cog­nizant of the staggering number of Jews that perished in the Nazi concentration camps, but everyone doesn't realize that there are other vic­tims. How many tens of thousands of Catholics, homosexuals and German war protesters died in those camps alongside the Jews? How many thousands of prisoners of war also met this fate? How many millions ofSlavs, gypsies, and others not of "the ubermensch". were anonymously slain in those very same camps, to be all but completely forgotten? 
Furthermore, if I went through the Huddle, and asked everyone what does the Kaytin forest mean to them, I doubt that more than ten per­cent of the people would know about the hun­dreds of Polish soldiers and officers who met their execution there at the hands of the Russian forces in the beginning of World War II. 
It does not stop there. What about Stalin? How many p~ople realize that Stalin purposely withheld supplies and combat support to the non-Russian fighting forces in the Baltic states, and in Ukraine? Who knows that Stalin felt he could use the blitzkrieg as a form of dissident elimination? 

Supposing that we're all so adamant against the holocaust, and will go to extremes to prevent anything like it again, what about the unmarked death going on in Bosnia? Do you really think that NATO fighters can to stop the snipers from shooting, the mortar crews from firing, the dia­metrically opposed peoples from destroying those whom they historically hate? Sadly, the answer is no. 
It's not just in Bosnia. How do we manage to sleep at night with all the known violence in Africa? What about the killings in the Middle East? How often have we said to ourselves: "Those stupid people ... I wonder how Duke did last night." 
It's easy for us to remember for those who have died in the holocaust when Steven Spielberg makes a full length feature film of it. Yet, I find it disturbing when similar situations present in both history and today simply pass by unnoticed and uncared for. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
JUDAY'S STAFF 

News Production Dave Tyler Kyle Green Edward Imbus Kira Hutchinson Sports 
Tim Seymour Accent Viewpoint Patrice Miller Brian Seiler 
Lab Tech Graphics 
T.J. Harris Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
"Schindler's" steals stage 
LOS ANGELES No longer will he be known as the whiz kid who couldn't sit with the grown-ups. Steven Spielberg now 
finds himself at the head of the table. 
He got there with the most adult film imaginable, "Schindler's List," a searing, three-hour portrait of hero­ism and evil during the Holocaust, shot mostly in black and white and without any Hollywood stars. The childlike wonder of "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial" had been 
replaced by the horror of genocide. "It's such a dream," Spielberg said in finally winning an Academy Award, "and it comes from such a night­
mare." 

emony was a contrast between celebration and sadness. 
with "Schindler's List" hardly the only film with grim material to receive any Oscars. Tom Hanks of "Philadelphia" was cited as best actor 
for his portrayal of a lawyer with AIDS. Bruce Springsteen's "The Streets of Philadelphia" took the Oscar for best original song. 
Holly Hunter won for best actress for her depiction of an unhappy, mute bride in a forced New Zealand mar­riage. She thanked director Jane Campion, who won the Oscar for best original screenplay. 
"Thank you for giving me a character and an experi­ence that was so difficult to say goodbye to it because it's everybody's now," Hunter said. 
In the most unexpected win, 11-year-old Anna Paquin 
The film won seven Oscars in all,------------.....,----__:,captured the supporting actress 
Monday night, including best pic­ture and best director. 
"I actually have friends who ha won this before, and I swear I have never held one before," said 
beaming Spielberg, clutching statuette for best director. His prior Academy honor was an Thalberg award in 1987. T award, which is not in the shape an Oscar, honors a filmmaker's body of work. 
Spielberg reacted calmly at first, running down a list of thank yous. He ended, however, in a chok voice as he spoke of the '.'six million who can't be watching this ... tele­cast tonight," a reference to the Jews killed by the Nazis. 
"Schindler's List," took the wins for a single fl.lm since • uaul..t:~ With Wolves" three years ago. 
Much of Monday night's 
Dudley Moore arrested for battery 
LOS ANGELES 
Actor Dudley Moore was arrested after a woman identi­fying herself as his girlfriend said he battered her during an argument, police said today. The British-born star of "10" and "Arthur" was booked and released on $50,000 bail after being arrested Monday for investigation of domestic abuse. The district attorney's office will decide whether to file a charge, said Officer Lori Taylor. Police found that the woman sustained "minor but visible trau­ma to the neck area," she said. She added the injury was not the result of being choked. Taylor said officers had to arrest Moore, 58, under state law. It was unlikely Moore was injured because police would have been forced to arrest the woman under the same law, she said. 
Woody Woodpecker animator dies 
LOS ANGELES 
Animator Walter Lantz, who created the conniving Woody Woodpecker cartoon character after a woodpeck­er purportedly disrupted his honeymoon in the 1940s, died Tuesday. He was 93. Lantz's cartoon stable also included Andy Panda, Chilly Willy, Smedley, Sugarfoot, Charley Beary and Oswald Rabbit. Lantz was given an honorary Academy Award in 1978 "for bringing joy and laughter to every part of the world through his unique animated motion pictures." His wife, stage actress Grace Stafford, gave the bird its contemptuous "Heh-heh-heh­HEHHHH-heh" laugh. She died in March 1992 at age 88. When Lantz's wife asked to audition for the voice, Lantz refused. She then secretly made a recording and placed it among the audition tapes of seven other applicants. Lantz picked her. During the next quarter-century, she put the words in Woody's beak. Woody Woodpecker made his first appearance in the Andy Panda cartoon "Knock Knock." 
ar for her part as Hunter's terpreter in "The Piano." She came the second-youngest winner 
a regular Oscar, trailing only 10­ar-old Tatum O'Neal of "Paper " two decades ago. 
Tommy Lee Jones, the dogged of "The Fugitive," won for supporting actor, beating Ralph who played a sadistic Nazi in "Schindler's List." 'Belle Epoque" won for best 
film and honorary went to Paul Newman and Kerr. Replacing Billy Crystal after four 
as emcee, Goldberg kept the moving at a brisk pace, poking at everyone from alleged 
ollywood madam Heidi Fleiss to Bobbitt. 
"Lorena Bobbitt, please meet Bob ole," Goldberg said of the 
senator. 

Rodney King civil trial begins 
LOS ANGELES 
The new Rodney King trial to determine whether the police pummeling should make King a millionaire is about to get underway with settlement talks continuing outside the courtroom. Opening statements were expect­ed Wednesday. The City Council met in closed session to discuss a possible agreement on. Tuesday to the amount of money the city would pay to compensate King for his injuries. A trial still would be held to determine whether individual defendants, including former Police Chief Daryl Gates and the four white former police officers charged with beating the black motorist, must pay punitive dam­ages. King reportedly was seeking $9.5 million from the city for the March 3, 1991, beating. 
Chicago mail delivery examined 
CHICAGO 
The check is in the mail, but will it be delivered? That's the question these days in Chicago, where old, undelivered mail has turned up in mail trucks, back rooms of post offices -even a burning heap under a viaduct. With the list of postal horror stories growing, two U.S. senators brought the Postmaster General Marvin Runyonto town Monday to address those problems. He said customer satisfaction in Chicago is below 70 percent, the lowest of any major U.S. city. That's even lower than in New York City, which has been plagued by similar problems in recent months, Runyon said. The postmaster general told the crowd he is setting up a task force to "look into every nook and cranny" and come up with solutions. An 800-number will be set up to hear com­plaints, and Runyon said he will return in two weeks to see that improvements have begun. But Runyon said some of the problems may be due to labor-management friction, and results could take five years. 
INDIANA Weather 
Tuesday, March 22 Accu-Weather* forecast for daytime conditions and high 

PressurB 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via AssoeialtJd P18ss 

Atlanta 74 56 Dallas 77 58 Minneapolis 38 27 Baltimore 68 57 Denver 47 28 New Orleans 84 66 Boston 54 40 Houston 82 66 New York 58 43 Chicago 50 43 Los Angeles 59 50 Philadelphia 64 46 Colombus 64 51 Miami 85 70 Phoenix 74 55 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 22. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS 

Club helps in the job hunt 
By GWEN DUFFIELD 
News Writer 
By offering motivational sup­port and exchanging network­ing leads and contacts, the Job Search Club can help students to learn from each other in seeking employment, according to Cathy Nafe, Coordinator of Placement Services and career counselor at the St. Mary's Counseling and Career Devel­opment Center. 
Based on a suggestion from a resident advisor at Saint Mary's College, Nafe created a propos­al to have a group of students of any class level meet once a week to share whatever infor­mation they have gathered in their search for a job. 
"The idea is for students in the group to hold each other accountable for what they've done to try to find work," said Nafe. 
Students in search of work must first assess their skills to determine what types of work they are good at and what they like to do, says Nafe. Then stu­dents should look for compa­nies which look for these skills in their jobs and begin a net­working process. This process consists of looking through the list of alumni on the Alumni Re­source Network in the Counsel­ing and Career Development Center. 
"By calling the alumni who have jobs you are interested in, you can get an overview in that area of employment of who is hiring and possibly get a con­tact from that person," said Nafe. 
After locating a prospective employer, students should then draft a resume in which they describe their related work ex­perience, their field of study, GPA, and any activities or com­munity service which may con­tribute to their qualifications for that particular job. 
"Employers want to know what you as an employee can do for their company," said Nafe. "A student sho-uld target her resume to the type of job they are applying for," she continued. 
Nafe stressed the importance of taking initiative in the job search by contacting the em­ployer for an interview, instead of waiting to hear from them. 
"All these companies are busy with their own work as well, so you need to take control and put it in your own ballpark," said Nafe. 
Aside from the Job Search Club, the Counseling and Ca­reer Development Center offers students other career planning services to assist them in devel­oping their career interests, ac­cording to Nafe. 
Students who have not yet chosen a field and want to nar­row their focus can receive ca­reer counseling on an individ­ual basis. 
They may research their prospective interests in the Career Resource Library, use the Alumni Resource Network, or get actual job experience through internships or shadow­ing with employees from com­panies. 
"Shadowing allows a student to spend half a day or up to two days with a person who has a job you are interested in to see exactly what that kind of work involves," said Nafe. 
Students who are actively seeking a job in a particular field may seek job search coun­seling to set up job search plans and strategies. These include reviewing their resume and cover letter, and working on interviewing techniques. 
It's later than you think! 
Time is running out-so place your '94-'9S applications today! 
•1 
&2 Bedroom Apartments 

•Furnished 
Studios 

•1/10 
mile from campus 

•24 
hour maintenance 


Hrs: M-F 9 a.m.-6 p.m.Sat 10 a.m.-S p.m. Sun 12 noon -S p.m. 

APPLICATIONS FOR A POSITION ON 

COMMITTEE FOR 1994 ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AT 315 LAFORTUNE. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE BY MARCH 30th. 

GET INYOLYED! 
• 
If you see news happening, call The Observer. 631-5323 
Stay at~~la(U for Graduation 1-llti.iltll 1994! a1 SAINT MARY'S *Now Available* 
• 
Kings, Doubles, and Suites • 2 Night minimum (May 13-14, 1994) 

• 
Advanced Deposits Required 


For reservations call: 1...800...947...8627 or: 1-219-232-4000 

To the one with more hair, Be glad this picture is not a bare, All love on reaching the two-one, Know your planning a week of fun. So while you empty that cup, Just keep your chin up. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 23, 1994 



Israel, PLO continue self rule talks Letter 
By SALAH NASRAWI 
Associated Press 
TUNIS 
PLO and Israeli negotiators reached a tentative agreement allowing foreign troops in the occupied lands to protect Pales­tinians, a deal that could reopen stalled peace talks, PLO and diplomatic sources said Tuesday. 
European diplomats said the accord also calls for moving Jewish settlers from the West Bank flashpoint of Hebron. That would meet a key PLO condition for returning to the talks halted after a Jewish set­tler gunned down 30 Pales­tinian worshipers on February 25. 
Israel's key negotiator, General Amnon Shahak, con­firmed a preliminary accord 
and around Jericho, said the sources._ who included PLO of­ficials and Western diplomats. 
The sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the force would be under Israeli command. 
Russia, Norway and other European countries have said they will contribute to the force, the sources said. Other inter­national observers, such as the International Red Cross and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, would also par­ticipate. 
tiators. 

Sources in Egypt said talks would be held Wednesday in Cairo between PLO representa­tive Nabil Shaath and an Israeli negotiator, perhaps Shahak. 
Palestine Liberation Organization chairman Yasser Arafat and Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres will be in Cairo, Egypt, then for a meeting of donor nations that have pledged to aid Palestinian autonomy. 
Speaking on Israel's army radio, Peres said he had no plans to meet with Arafat soon. 
"We have to overcome very many obstacles and we need joint strength to do so," he said. "There will certainly be a meet­ing (with Arafat), but there is still no date yet and you can't talk in terms of 'soon' either." 
U.S., Russian and Norwegian envoys have been making in­tense efforts to lure Arafat back to the self-rule negotiations. 
continued from page 1 
too." 

Above all, students should rest assured that their student body officers not only remain committed to bringing fun to the Notre Dame campus, but they also remain friends. 
"I wouldn't read it that Dave and I are mortal enemies now because I wrote this letter," Orsagh said. "It's not a big deal." 
The Israelis also agreed to ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
move an estimated fourhundred fifty Jewish settlers in Hebron to the settlement of Kiryat Arba The Notre Dame Bookstore cordially invites you to on the city's outskirts, and to 
close a sixty-four-student attend a reception and reading by Jewish school in Hebron, European diplomats said. 
VALERIE SAYERS 
In addition, Israel and the 
was reached, but would not PLO would set up joint police 
featuring her newest novel 
give details. The four-member patrols in Hebron and other Israeli negotiating team left West Bank and Gaza trou­
"The Distance Between Us".
Tunis on Tuesday for blespots, the sources said. Jerusalem. About 1,000 to 1,200 Pales­
"Ms. Sayers has that rare knack of appearing simply to open up a reality, as if it were so clear 
Any agreement must be rati­tinian policemen trained in Jor­
before her eyes that she doesn't have to create it so much as invite us in." 
fied by Israeli Prime Minister dan would participate in the · -New York Times Book Review 
Yitzhak Rabin. force. Under the tentative agree­Samir Ghosheh, a member of ment, Israel would accept a the PLO's ruling executive com­lightly armed, U.N.-sponsored mittee, said the agreement 

fi/Jarsday -March 24th
international presence of 300 to could be made final during a 500 personnel in Hebron, 600 meeting in Cairo on Thursday 
... ·····?w?o··::·.pm-5··oo pm
~:. ~ 
.

in Gaza and 1,000 to 1,200 in between PLO and Israeli nego­

Greenfield's Cafe 
(located on campus in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, Notre Dame Avenue) 
···.:~·;.•·=.:·..•=.~.•·.~.·.:~·~.•·:···.=~:' ·.=·,:~·~.•.:':
...... ..•':'··:... ...··'·'.•.•'.·.•'•',,:'.. ·.. ::;:;:;:::::;:;:,:::;.;:;:,:: .. · ...
: .;:.:::~nr~~m~m~~~~<=~:;.:.· 
' 

Ms. Sayers will also be available for autographs. (Refreshments will be available) 
Hosted by: 

The HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" Ph. (219)-631-5324 Open Monday -Saturday 9 am -5 pm 
PLACEMENT EXAMS IN 
FRENCH AND SPANISH 
In order to register for Romance language 
courses 102, 102A, 103,201 or 241 by DART, 
students must be in the language sequence and 
have taken the course prerequisites. In French 
or Spanish, students may receive advanced 
placement into a course by taking either the 
CEEB, AP or Notre Dame exams. If you have previous language experience in French or Spanish, but are not in a language sequence and 




Whenthe Great 
have not taken a placement exam, you must sign up for the departmental exam by calling the 

American Dream 
placement exam registration line at 1-6887 by 
Friday, March 25th. Exams will be 
isn't great enough 
given from 7-9 p.m. on Tuesday,
Have you considered 
March 29th. Results will be mailed by the 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
registrar's office and students will be able to use
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the 
University of Notre Dame for col'lc!!e !!radu;)les 
DART to register for classes. If you have 
interested in exploring the possihility ofa Iifetimc 
questions, please call the Department of 
of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is av;1ilablc. 
Romance Languages and Literatures at 1-6886 
or come to the department office, 343 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley. C.S.C. 
0'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Fr. Patrick Hannon. C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
YOU MUST BRING YOUR I.D. TO ENTER 
(219) 631-63X5 
THE EXAM ROOM. 

Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS 

Anorexia, Bulimia found at ND 
By MIKE GAGLIA 
News Writer 
Many Notre Dame students deal with the problems of an eating disorder in silence, but ample help is available, Rita Donley told an audience in LaFortune's Foster Room last night. 
In her lecture entitled "How to Help a Friend With an Eating Disorder," Donley, assistant di­rector of the University Coun­seling Center, discussed warn­ing signs and symptoms of eat­ing disorders and steps people can take to get help for possible victims. 
Donley gave an overview of the major disorders and their symptoms; including the famil­iar names anorexia and bulimia was compulsive overeating, but all three involve a pattern of both overeating and undereat­ing. Major symptoms cited were 'eating rituals,' obsessive exercise and dieting, emotional isolation, low self-esteem, and large fluctuations in weight. 
Although this list is far from 
complete, the occurrence of these disorders at Notre Dame is surprisingly commonplace. A recent survey conducted by the University Counseling Center revealed that 20.6% of Notre Dame women had a serious eating disorder and 46% showed symptoms of a prob­lem. This does not mean that men do not suffer from these disorders; the incidence among men is merely less prevalent than in women. It is clear, ·however, that a problem exists 
at the university. 
Donley gave a general 
overview of disorders, but the 
main focus of the presentation 
was to help and encourage peo­
ple who know someone with a 
problem. "I do not want to 
encourage a witch hunt; you 
must resist assumptions and 
observe patterns of behavior 
over a period of time," Donley 
stressed. She mentioned that 
rumors may unfortunately 
come in to play if a friend does 
not approach the matter care­fully. 
If a problem is found to exist, however, one should "Pick a time and place that is low­stress, quiet, and private. When you speak of the prob­lem, try not to judge, label, or shame the person. And the most important thing to com­municate is that you care about them," she said. 
The most likely reaction to any approach, however, will be denial and anger. "When you let people know you're con­cerned and back off, they're more likely to help; the only ex­ceptions to this are when they are possibly suicidal or in im­mediate physical danger." 
Donley also stressed the im­portance of p.ersonal caution­when approaching a friend with an eating disorder. "It's impor­tant to take care of oneself as well." The problem should not begin affecting the friend's well-being to the point of dou­bling the negative influence of the situation. 
The fmal question is, "Where does my friend go for help?" 

By BOB EGELKO 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

The FBI will not discriminate on the basis of sexual orienta­tion under a settlement a judge approved Tuesday between the agency and a fired gay agent. 
Frank Buttino's lawsuit was resolved in December when the Clinton administration promised equal treatment for homosexual and heterosexual FBI employees. Buttino was fired in 1990 after 20 years with the FBI. 
A week before the adminis­tration announced the new pol­icy, Attorney General Janet Reno barred all Justice De­partment agencies from dis­criminating on the basis of sex­ual orientation. 

,..------------------------......, The University Counseling 
The Observer 
sports department is seeking individuals for the following positions: 
Copy Editors StaffWriters 
Any interested parties contact George Dohrmann at 631-4543 or come to the Observer Office 3rd floor LaFortune. 
~--------------------------------------~ 
Center is one option, as well as Overeaters Anonymous. Donley also mentioned, "If you ever want to come to the Center and talk about approaching a friend, it's also an option." 
Does the problem merit all of this attention? Donley believes it does. She noted the surpris­ing turnout (about forty stu­dents) as an indication that problems exist. The competitive academic and equally challeng­ing social environments at Notre Dame only serve to aggravate those problems. Donley concluded the solution lies in recognition of the prob­lem by family and friends, as well those who struggle with these not-so-rare disorders. 

page6 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
Korean tensions rise, Chinese help sought 
By PAUL SHIN Associated Press 
SEOUL 

Tensions on the world's most heavily armed border escalated Tuesday, with North Korea ac­cusing South Korea of provok­ing war, and South Korea say­ing it needs better security to ensure peace. 
South Korean President Kim Young-sam said he would ask China, North Korea's only major ally, to help ease the nuclear standoff on the divided penin­sula. 
North Korea's official news agency called South Korea's plans to deploy Patriot missiles and conduct military exercises with the United States "provocative steps ... and a dec­laration ofwar." 
North Korea, after refusing to allow full inspections of sites where it is suspected of devel­oping nuclear weapons, threat­ened Monday to pull out of an international nuclear controls treaty. That could lead to a U.S. push for international sanc­tions. 
China has backed efforts to get North Korea to permit the inspections. But Chinese Pre­mier Li Peng suggested Tuesday that China would not support economic sanctions. 
"If pressure is applied on this issue, that can only complicate the situation on the Korean peninsula and it will add to the tension there," Li said in Bei­jing. 
In Washington, State De­partment spokesman Michael McCurry said Chinese officials have indicated their willingness to work with the United States on the Korean situation. 
Tensions have risen sharply in the past week because of the North Korea's refusal to allow 
full nuc.lear inspections or to
exchange envoys with South Korea. The envoys were to have discussed ways to make the peninsula nuclear-free. 
On Monday, Pyongyang re­newed a year-old threat to with­draw from the Nuclear Non­proliferation Treaty, which it joined in 1985. 
The International Atomic En­ergy Agency, based in Vienna, referred the issue to the U.N. Security Council, opening the way for possible sanctions. 
No proposal for sanctions has been made, but the five per­manent members of the Secu­rity Council -the United States, France, Britain, China and Russia -were meeting pri­vately Tuesday afternoon to dis­cuss the North Korean situation. 
McCurry said a resolution warning North Korea it risked sanctions could be ready for 
U.N. Security Council consider­ation later in the week. 
South Korean President Kim is to fly to Japan on Thursday and China on Saturday to confer with leaders of those countries. 
"The most important issue that concerns all will be South­North problems," he told party leaders Tuesday. 
Japan has indicated that it would go along with economic sanctions. 
Kim called for tighter security on the Korean peninsula, saying "only power can deter a war and defend the nation." 
"We must prevent the recur­rence of a war on the peninsula at all costs," he said. 
Nearly 2 million troops are deployed on either side of the Korean border. The Koreas, bit­ter rivals since the peninsula was divided in 1945, have never signed a peace treaty formally ending the 1950-1953 war. 
Kim said the timing of this year's joint U.S.-South Korea "Team Spirit" military exercises will be decided after he returns from China on March 30. 
• 
Nuclear research 

• 
Uranium processing o.. Uranium mining! Nuclear powerplant 



(_______________J 
de~~~~~~tthoef ~~~r~!~:i~~d~~~ ~~~~a si~~~vl~~nt: ucpo~~ i~so~~~ ~~!~~~~~tye~~l~~~ti~~~ha~~~~h K~~;· officials in Washington ~~~er~~s~ueta~~xc=::;f~~ ~i~~~~ 
siles, may be deployed in South Korea. 
But the Patriots won't arrive for several weeks, leaving time for the administration to use diplomatic and economic pres­sure to push North Korea to open its nuclear sites for in­spection. 
Relief flight lands at airport 
By TEDDIE WEYR Associated Press 

TUZIA, Bosnia-Herzegovina 
A plane carrying 22 tons of aid and top U.N. officials flew into Tuzla today, the first time the airport has been open for relief flights in almost two years of war. 
The airport's reopening -a major goal of relief officials ­had been blocked for months by Serbs, whose big guns can easi­ly reach the tarmac. The area in northern Bosnia is government­held, and about half of its 800,000 people depend on humanitarian aid. 
For such a historic occasion, the arrival of the first fixed-wing 
U.N. aircraft appeared routine. "Everything was OK," said Maj. Gunnar Karlson, at U.N. headquarters in Tuzla, shortly after the plane touched down. The flight carried chief U.N. envoy Yakushi Akashi, French Gen. Bertrand de Lapresle, commander of U.N. forces, and other U.N. officials. 
Akashi presented Tuzla's mayor with a box of seeds as a "token of humanitarian assis­tance" after his plane landed. 
"I hope, like these seeds, the seeds of peace and hope will keep growing in this city and the whole country," Akashi said. 
"We hope this is the begin­ning of the peaceful period for Bosnia-Herzegovina," said Mayor Selim Beslagic. 
An airlift to Sarajevo has kept residents of the besieged Bosnian capital fed for much of the 23-month-old war. 
But in an ironic twist, the opening of Tuzla's airport is not nearly as important now as it would have been earlier. Croats and Muslims, whose fighting in central Bosnia had blocked many aid convoys, signed cease­fire in February and just last week created a joint federation in Bosnia. Convoys heading to Tuzla from the north through Serb-held territory have also been getting in recently with relatively few delays. 
"Now the convoys are run­ning without any problems, and it is much cheaper to use con­voys than to use planes," Maj. Jose Labandeira, a U.N. spokesman in Sarajevo, told reporters. 


Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
____________J::!:!:::::=================================i 
BE A PAR,. OF ,.BE ,.RADI,.ION BE A PAR,. OF B.O.G. 
Pick up your application at Haggar for : 
SOTRE DAME .A:PAR~MENTS 
. '!'"'''"''"ewly Remodeled Apart'f!lents at Very Affordable Rates" 
~GIOU~.2-BEDROOM kJ\RTMENTS 
A( 

wAPPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS RY SECURITY;; IJ:!.'.¥/i.. lii·~~NbR~·:FACILITY A¥ 
. ·..•.······· ......... . 
.......... OCKS FROM NOTRE DAME . ,ROFESSIONAL Mi\NAGEMENT TEAM kitLED1"MAINTENANCE' CREW n.di·· ···•·• •· 
• PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKlNGYFOR TENANTS 
•.SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR lMMEDIATE OccUPANCY 
o\t:<·< q 4\# ~~%(•\)i:t 
'94-'95 ~?~O?~.YEAR \.\ FoR MoRE INFoRMATION cALL 
232-8256 
Executive Secretary Election Commissioner Campus Club Commissioner Counseling and Career Commissioner Calendar/Newsletter Commissioner Notre Dame Representative 
Public Relations Commissioner Ethnic Diversity Commissioner Off-Campus Commissioner NASCU Representative Spiritual Life Commissioner SAC Secretary 
,.reasurar 
APPLICA,.ION DEADLINE IS MARCH 2&. 
Wednesday, March 23, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Drug shows promise for some cancer victims 
By BRENDA COLEMAN Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

A new study offers the best evidence yet that a powerful anti-cancer drug may cure some people with spreading tumors of the kidney and skin who other­wise would probably die within months, researchers say. 
The findings also suggest that researchers are on the right track in fighting some cancers by boosting the body's immunity rather than attacking tumors directly with surgery, radiation or chemotherapy. 
About 5 percent of 283 pa­tients receiving high doses of the genetically engineered drug lnterleukin-2 became cancer­free and stayed that way for periods ranging from seven months to eight years, the longest any patient in the study 
l~r~# 
was followed. 
Results of the study are pub­lished in Wednesday's issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association. 
Interleukin-2 is believed to stimulate production of the body's T cells, white blood cells that orchestrate key immune responses, and of other "killer cells" that can target tumors but not normal cells. 
The drug is the only treatment approved by the Food and Drug Administration for advanced kidney cancer, which will kill about 11,300 Americans this year. It is being used experi­mentally on advanced melanoma, a skin cancer that will kill an estimated 6,900 Americans this year. 
The lead researcher, Dr. Steven A. Rosenberg, chief of surgery at the National Cancer Institute, said the findings bol­
{({( The University of Notre Dame • 
,,,. Departmentof~usicpresents .,,1 Open hearingS ~ Barry Davtd Salwen II!! ByD~VIDESPO estadministrationoffici~ltoap­··'' 11.? Associated Press pear before a grand JUry m ."II • • ,,,.~ Washington. The top overseer//J1 pianiSt ~ WASHINGTON of the savings and loan.clean~p.~ rq ~ Despite Democratic reluc-he has acknowledged diSCUSSing 
'1'1·1· 
Guest Le~;;re-Recital -~·1'1'1 ::t~i~~~~~~~s:!~:1 i~~~:u~f r:t~~~:~:~~~;a~1e~i~;:{{~~ 
P. S f R S Tuesday as
1 The Iano onatas 0 oger essions the House
Ill
I 
\~ 
~\ 
~"11
/Ill
,,~r 
.l_. 
~~~ \\ 
~'­
ster arguments for trying to use the body's immune system to fight some cancers. 
"There's been a lot of contro­versy about whether im­munotherapy would ever be effective" against cancer, he said Tuesday. 
Craig Cooper, 40, who un­derwent Interleukin-2 treatment more than two years ago for spreading melanoma, called the drug "miserable" to take and "great stuff" to benefit from. Cooper was not a part of the study published Wednesday. 
·'I'm one of the miracles," Cooper said Tuesday from Dav­enport, Iowa, where he is a newspaper sports writer. 
"I have a normal life," said the husband and father of two. "I coach Little League baseball, play golf, do anything I want to do, basically." 

In the study, nine of the 134 skin cancer patients had their cancers disappear after Inter­leukin-2; in one patient, cancer returned. 
Of the 149 kidney cancer pa­tients studied, 10 had total re­missions after Interleukin-2. Cancer returned in three pa­tients, two of whom have died, the researchers reported. 
Thirty-four of the 283 patients had partial shrinkage of tumors. 
Researchers not involved in the study said it breaks impor­tant new ground, noting that the study found Interleukin-2 to be more effective for longer periods than other treatments. 
Dr. Jeffrey A. Sosman, an as­sistant professor of medicine and an Interleukin-2 researcher at Loyola University Medical Center in Maywood, Ill., said the federal study is the largest of its kind. 
"I'm enthusiastic about this article and about a lot of things going on with Interleukin-2," Sosman said Tuesday. "The real question is for us to take this and improve it. That's really where we need to put our effort." 
Dr. Samuel Hellman, a pro­fessor of radiation oncology at the University of Chicago, said in a JAMA editorial that the pa­tients in the study responded better than similar patients have to any other regimen. 
Interleukin-2 has met with controversy because its toxic side effects were associated with many deaths in earlier studies. 
Rosenberg's team reported three such deaths in the early part of their study, but they said experience has taught them how to avoid such deaths. Two were linked with heart problems and one with an infection. 

:~#~ House joins call for
~'' 

' deli · th 1111 joined the
£

per ormmg an scussmg e Senate in call-Three Piano Sonatas of Roger Sessions ing for hear-
1/jjl ~n~s~ s::c~a~ Wednesday, March 23, 1994 1{'1( !~~e~~t~~r~~ 8111 Clinton 
8:00 p.m. \\~'~\ guilty plea in 
~ the case bedeviling the Clinton ~ ,, administration. 
~~ ~&. ~~ ~~ ~\ Ef:?J.~ :,.~ ~.:! :_~ ~,: ~ ~h: 
•••;;ill" ._..__ ""'* ._ ·""'* ._ =" ••• 
NAZZ ~94 
FRIDAY, MARCH 25 
Stepan Center 
6:00 Check Engine 
6:15 Spinning Jenny 
6:30 Sleight of Hand 
6:45 Comeuppance 
7:15 Trash the Craven 
7:30 Pulse 
7:45 Spoon Fed 
8:00 Defu net 
8:15 True North 
8:30 Dazed &Confused 
8:45 Tabula Rosa 
9:00 The Road Apples 
9:15 Michael McGlinn 
9:30 July 
9:45 Pinchpoint 
10:00 Victoria's Real Secret 
10:15 Cripe St. 
10:30 emily 
10:45 Sunshine Wine 11 :00 Candyflip 
11:15 Roadrunner & the Acme do-it-yourself horn kit 
11:30 Katharsis 
11 :45 XVZ Affair 
Annenberg Auditorium .. 
~~~~ 

,. .... Admission free· open to the public~--..,~ rq_
1 

The House vote was 408-15 on legislation calling on Demo­cratic and Republican leaders to work out an "appropriate timetable" for hearings without interfering in Fiske's work. 
While dates and ground rules for hearings remain to be set, the legislation marked a retreat for House Speaker Thomas Fo­ley, who has been under pres­sure from Republicans and some Democrats to drop his opposition to hearings. 
"While we cannot and should not ignore Whitewater, neither can we allow it to flood the chamber," Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri said shortly before the vote. 
House GOP leader Bob Michel pledged hearings "in a very orderly manner." He added, "I don't want to see any kind of circus atmosphere." 
The maneuvering came as Deputy Treasury Secretary Robert Altman became the lat-
thrift and other institutions. "I have had an opportunity to 
provide all the facts for Mr.
Fiske's investigation," Altman told reporters as he left the 
foa~~j~~~o~. ~'!';c~e:;ie~~ 
si~~~ ;~~~~in the nation's 
~apit~l is one of two that.Fiske IS usmg to probe a complicated series of transactions that origi­
nally c.overed. President. and Mrs. Clinton's mvestment man Arkansas land venture, then expanded to include Madison Gu~ranty, the failed Arkansas savmgs and loan, and finally, the meetings in Washington. 
It also touches on the appar­ent suicide of Vincent Foster, a friend of the Clintons' who was deputy White House counsel at the time of his death. 
In Little Rock, David Hale, a former Arkansas municipal judge who has alleged Clinton was involved in a questionable loan, pleaded guilty to two fraud charges involving the operation of his federally backed lending company. 
Hale admitted conspiring to defraud the Small Business Administration and, in a new charge, admitted to falsifying information on a February 1986 application to obtain federal funds to lend to economically disadvantaged businesses. 

SENIORS ! After graduation tak a year off with us ! 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
Perry inspects missile sites Arizona sheriff takes 
ByJOHN DIAMOND 
Associated Press 
PERVOMAYSK, Ukraine 

Defense Secretary William Perry stared over the brink of a Ukrainian missile silo Tuesday and saw a sign of peace. 
In an unprecedented tour of a former Soviet intercontinental ballistic missile base, Perry wit­nessed the gradual dismantling of a site that had possessed the power to inflict heavy damage on the United States. 
The gaping SS-24 missile silo into which he peered contained a rocket some 9 feet in diame­ter, but none of the 10 nuclear warheads that it can carry. They have already been re­moved and shipped to Russia for dismantling. 
Perry also toured the under­ground command center that controlled some of the 700 war­heads at Pervomaysk. Ukrainian officers demon­strated the steps they would have taken to prepare for launching missiles. 
"As I stood there watching this process, I admit that I was awed," Perry said afterward. "These two operators had the power to destroy every major city in the United States." 
Already, the danger is de­creasing, Perry said. 
Ukraine has shipped 120 warheads to Russia, where they will be disarmed. Half of those came from SS-24s at Pervo­maysk. 
Perry profusely thanked his hosts for "this historic trip," noting that no defense secre­tary had ever visited the base in south-central Ukraine. 
"Two years ago, a secretary of defense could not even have 
Firm agrees to pay fine 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. agreed to pay more than $1 million to settle claims that it illegally wined and dined Massachusetts politicians to gain influence over state legislation. 
Authorities said Hancock lobbyists spent more than $35,000 from January 1986 to May 1993 on hundreds of meals, drinks, golf fees, the­ater tickets and other gratu­ities to entertain state legisla­tors. 
The state Ethics Commission cited several examples where Hancock lob­byists influenced legislation. According to one company document, lobbyists helped kill a bill that would have banned AIDS testing for insurance coverage. 
In a statement Tuesday, Hancock said: "We regret that this problem occurred, but we appreciate the govern­ment's recognition of our determination to step forward and correct it." 
The Ethics Commission fined Hancock $110,000. In addition, the U.S. attorney's office accepted a $900,000 settlement, which authorities said would have been the probable penalty if the com­pany had been indicted and convicted. 
The Boston-based company also has agreed to cooperate in an investigation of the lawmakers involved. 

I-
imagined going to these sites," one," Radetsky said. "Ifthere is 
on new Brady Law 
Perry said. a warhead, we'll pay. Oth­The tour was fitting in one erwise, you pay." 
By GEORGE GARTIES "To not do anything at all be­sense. The United States is pro­That, of course, is precisely 
Associated Press cause you're opposed to what
viding some of the money the what the United States is doing. 
Congress has done would notUkrainians need to dismantle Perry defended the cost to PHOENIX be reasonable," Stern said. 

their nuclear arsenal. Perry lis­U.S. taxpayers, noting the obvi­The Justice Department is Mack is challenging the gun
tened impassively as the ous, direct benefit of helping 
defending the 3-week-old law as a private citizen with his Ukrainian officials explained Ukraine. 
Brady Law from a country own lawyer and help from thetheir critical shortage of funds. "This seems like a lot of sheriffs challenge by arguing National Rifle Association. Like money but it buys us more de­
law officers need not always other opponents of the law,
Deputy Foreign Minister Boris fense than any other use of de­carry out background checks Mack has argued it will swampTarasiuk, the top Ukrainian fense dollars that I could think the new federal law requires his department with paperwork arms control negotiator, said of," Perry said. 
for handgun buyers. and open him to lawsuits bythe $350 million already pro­Col. Gen. Volodimir Mikhtiuk, Graham County Sheriff gun victims in his rural countyvided or promised by the United commander of nuclear forces in Richard Mack may decide other of 28,000 people. 
States for this purpose, some of Ukraine, told of soldiers work­duties are more pressing than The government brief. filed in it signed over on Monday, ing round the clock to meet making the checks, the U.S. U.S. District Court in Tucson,amounts to only a fraction of deadlines set by previous arms­Justice Department said in a le­says the chief law enforcementthe total cost. reduction agreements. Some, gal brief filed Monday. officer in the jurisdiction whereTarasiuk estimated it will re­he said, are homeless, and the "I could do anything else," the gun is being sold mustquire $2.8 billion to remove base lacks money to buy spare Mack said from Safford in make a "reasonable" effort to warheads, dismantle rockets parts for equipment involved in southeastern Arizona. "I could conduct a background check.
and destroy silos. the dismantling process. 
stand on a street corner and But it notes that Mack could "atAs Perry descended a narrow Without outside help, wait for a kid to come by and any given time" decide his 12­stairway into the command Mikhtiuk said, "We would be talk to him on the dangers of member department is too busycenter, Ukrainian Defense Min­forced to stop." 
drug abuse, and it would be to conduct the check. 
ister Vitaly Radetsky cracked, In addition to the SS-24s, more useful." The Justice Department brief
"Keep the minister until he Ukraine also has 130 SS-19 
Carl Stern, a Justice Depart­was the government's first re­gives money." missiles, each of which can ment spokesman in Washing­sponse to several lawsuitsWhen they looked down into carry eight warheads. Half of ton, characterized the filing as around the country challenging the SS-24 silo, Radetsky as. the 40 SS-19s at Pervomaysk a "hypothetical legal argu­the law, which requires a five­sured Perry that 30 of the have been deactivated. And of ment" rather than a guide to day wait before a handgun isbase's 46 SS-24s have been de­the 90 SS-19s at Ukraine's enforcing the law. He said local sold while local law agenciesactivated, and he invited Perry Khmelnitsky base, Radetsky officials are expected to make check the buyer's backgroundto look into any silo he wanted. would only say that "a lot" reasonable efforts to carry out for any crimes or psychological"We'll have a bet on this have been deactivated. 
the background checks. problems. 

0 
0 


Wednesday, March 23, 1994 7 p.m. Library Auditorium 
Comments from fellow Notre Dame students who have seen David: 
·Absolutely an excellent presentation -­"Inspirational and educational." one of the best I've ever seen.· "Excellent, bring him back.· "I laughed, I cried, I'd see it again and again. It was better than CATS! 
"Quite a coup to get someone Seriously--Awesome" 
this good to speak.· 

·A presenter and presentation I will 
"David was fabulous and entertainingremember forever.· 
with a clear and important message." 
Sponsored by The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education and Students Against Driving Drunk 
-~---·-·········-~--·-·---·--··------·-··-··· 
----~---~~-~---~~-~~--~ --~~--.---------~ ~ 
---~~~--~-~-----~----­
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager.. .................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed. as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily thoSC" of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Students should stop whining 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the letter to South Bend Police Chief Ron Marciniak co-au­thored by the current student body president Frank Flynn and Student Body President­Elect David Hungeling. Although it is encouraging to see the two administrations working in such great accord with one another, I am person­ally discouraged that they con­tinue to waste their time on fu­tile endeavors. 
Sure, there exists an ade­quate amount of bad feelings between the South Bend Police force and a good number of-.the student body here at Notre Dame. I do not think that is unusual though. I would haz­ard a guess that the relation­ship between the police and students in any good college in their letter is a call for better portant. The end of the letter town are strained at best. communication between the makes Flynn and Hungeling Students and police. aren't sup­students of Notre Dame and the appear as the pretentious Notre posed to get along. The stu­South Bend Police Department. Dame leaders that many on the dents here should be proud of By improved communication police force probably believe the fact the police don't like they seem to wish for the police them to be. them. That means they are to somehow forewarn the stu­The South Bend Police Force doing what any good college dent body when such a raid as does not exist so that it can student should; having fun and the one that happened at baby sit the students of Notre occasionally getting in trouble Lafayette is planned. That is Dame. Neither does Student for it. like asking for signs on the Government. We are all big 
I do believe that Flynn and highway which read: Warning: boys and girls. Sometimes we Hungeling are justified in stat­Speed Trap Ahead. Please Slow screw up, sometimes the cops ing that some of the police ac­Down So We Don't Have To screw up. I do not think Flynn tions were rash. I did not get to Take Your Money. That's just and Hungeling are justified in Lafayette Square in time to wit­not going happen. the position that they take. The ness what was going on first­Yeah, the city is going make most effective way of opening hand, but the stories I have money off us; that's part of the up fruitful dialogue with the heard are familiar ones. I have game. It's been going on a long South Bend Police force does had friends that have been time and is not going to change not begin by insulting them. roughed up by the police for anytime soon. Surely, Student Government minor infractions. Such things If better communication be­has better things to do than are unfortunate; but they hap­tween the students, of student give the South Bend Police pen. They will continue to hap­government anyway, and the Department another reason to pen regardless of what stu­South Bend Police Department hate us. dents, or the people that repre­was the object of their letter I sent those students say. think they got off to a bad start MATTORSAGH 
The main issue that Flynn by rattling off a letter that Junior and Hungeling seem to address comes off as whiny and self-im-Fisher Hall 
DOONESBURY 
HI, AGAIN/ RIGHTNOWI'M 
MR. OIA!RMAN, WHY 5HOUW IN A HOUse HCARIN6ROOM 
5MOI<ING 1313 8ANNeD P!<OM 6&777N6 R£3A/JY T07l55TIFY 
PU£3/../C.. 8U!WINGS? THeRE 
AGAIN~H.R. 

6N'T A 5C!NTIUA Of&VIf?&Nt.C 3434,AN&W 
?HAT&/1/V/RIJNMWTAL-5M0/0 ANTI-5MOI</N<3 ffJSeS ANYH/3At7H R/51< AT.AU! 8/U. / UIATOI 
M/3 fJO MY 5TUFF.' 

MR. BUTT~ YOU AlSOMAINTAIN 7H/3F& J<3 NO OUJSAL 1.-/NI< 
813T!Ait:m 5MOKI/Ik3ANI}~ f U5Tt:NIN6 TO YCV15UKJ3 G!3T­
TIN6 A 6&a3/WHY USSON ffOW 7HI3FLAT-I3AI<!H 50CI/3JY.' 
''Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding about ourselves." 
-Carl Jung 
----.-----­

Wednesday, March 23, 1994 page 10 
VIEWPOINT 
--~,-------~·_.-~__,.----~ ~---~--­
JOSH OZERSKY I, FARRINGTON 
Professor Cuthbert Barley explains it all 
An odd confluence of circumstances brought to mind a quotation from the immortal Sentences of Peter Lombard the other day. Two students were speaking animatedly in the hallway when I overheard one remark,"It's all pink in the middle." Needless to say, I found this anachronistic reference to communism striking. Quid ubi nohis ens nunc. ubi recipotori. The words seemed to float across the centuries to me, demonstrating yet again the supreme relevance of medieval philosophy to our so-called "modern" problems. 
Young people in our time feel them­selves independent of the claims of nat­ural law. The new hit record or the lat­est Winona Fonda film would seem to them the supreme arbiter of moral truth. And yet, as Pope Innocent XVIII pointed out so succinctly, the great chain of being provides no place for the ephemeral opinions of adolescence. 
It is the supreme value of Roman Catholicism that, despite what the "politically correct" of a given time might think, the moral values of human life are in fact written in stone in the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
eternal letters of the Faith. Perhaps if our young people were able to better appreciate this simple truth, such dissipation as the recent Lafayette party might have been avoided. 
It is a sad spectacle indeed when the representatives of our foremost Catholic university can make no better showing of their educations than to regurgitate forcefully in the presence of armed con­stables. As Julius IX remarked about the unfortunate case of the Basque heresiarch Raoul, "where Our Lady fails, the Iron Maiden prevails." I do not wish to suggest that a return to outmod­ed forms of coercion is what is needed, any more than I wish to close the minds of the young. 
Far from it! The Church is the great­est guarantor of intellectual freedom this age of prejudice and irrationalism knows. The debacle of the recent Lafayette party proves that, beyond the shadow of a reasonable doubt. 
It is the unwillingness of the modern mind to face the inexorable logic of Mother Church's deathless syllogisms that most characterizes it as modern. 
Often, sitting in my study at our fine Law School, it seems to me that the greatest violence occurring today is a direct result of the Enlightenment. 
Consider the case of John Wayne Bobbitt. The unseemly prurience of the media's handling of this unfortunate event reveals much more about con­temporary mores than it does about the efficacy of microsurgery. Can we not see in Bobbitt a metaphor for contem­porary man, separated from the very source of his intellectual and moral energy by a deranged zeitgeist? 
All too often, the claw-marks of secu­larism can be seen on the bleeding hide of contemporary thought. An intellectu­ally wholesome field, such as, say, law, might provide a useful corrective for the individualism rampant in our time. 
For example, in a court of law, a man could not say, "I massacred a post-office full of old women because it was my right"; and yet, every day, people insist that they can buy prophylactic devices for the very same reason. When I think of the tiny hands and feet of an innocent fetus, clenched in fear at the growth of relativistic subjectivism, I can only hold my head and weep. 
Is there no hope for a change in con­temporary attitudes? I believe there is. Moreover, it seems to me that however "groovy" contemporary observers assure us contemporary life is, more and more young people are coming to realize the central place the opinions of the Hierarchial Magisterium should have in making their most personal decisions. 
The young man I quoted above, by his highly conservative critique of post-Cold War thought, confirmed for me the direction our culture is heading towards. Something truly is "blowing in the wind" as a recent hit song has it; and that something, I would submit, is nothing less than the ideal of human life proposed so cohesively by the "Dumb Ox of Aquino" seven hundred years ago. Read the Summa Theologiae and decide for yourself. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in American History. 
IRA terrorism is not the answer 
Dear Editor: 
It was disappointing to read David McMahon's intemperate apology for the IRA ("God Bless the IRA," March 18,1994) in The Observer last week. It is so bad, that I wondered whether it was meant in jest. Without evi­dence to the contrary; we must take such unfortunate out­bursts literally, absurd as they are, much as we do those who deny the reality or extent of the Holocaust. 
While McMahon admitted that his heroes "may seem [sic] to be violent at times," he argued that their atrocities were a justified response to British/English oppression. (He never distinguishes between the British and English, much to the chagrin of Welsh and Scots who can also claim to have suffered under English domination). 
As I read on, I was expecting to have the IRA's ultimate ob­jectives and program (a united Ireland, one presumes) ex­plained and defended. After all, it is the future for which they are fighting. Or so I thought. It is not the future but the past, McMahon informs us, which is authoritative. IRA violence is justified because the British/English have inflicted all manner of atrocities upon the Irish ever since Cromwell all the back in the 17th century. And so they have. 
But we heard nothing from McMahon about the situation today. It is not difficult to un­derstand why. It is because a peaceful, civilized process of negotiation between Belfast, London and Dublin has begun to address the central issues of the Northern Irish problem. The Irish nationalist voice is represented by Dublin, not by the IRA. In these circum­stances, the IRA's self-percep­tion is at best anachronistic, at worst destructive of hopes for peace. 
By refusing to eschew terror­ism, they have marginalized themselves from this process. Until they lay down their arms, come to the bargaining table, and engage in dialogue, as the PLO and ANC have done, the killing will continue. This is the way forward. But McMahon bizarrely thinks that IRA mor­tars and car bombs will issue in a peaceful settlement. Were you to acgue their case with reference to their aims and objectives, McMahon, you would make a very weak case indeed. 

But more needs to be said of McMahon's other illusions. First, England/Britain did not "divide and conquer" all its colonies. When were Australia and New Zealand subject to such a policy? In fact, in Australia (the most Irish of countries outside Ireland) the colonial government refused to permit public displays of sectarian identity, precisely in order to fashion new identity shorn of old world hatreds and memories. 
This has happened in the U.S. as well, but McMahon derides Irish-Americans as being "as­similated." Perhaps, they have been deluded by what he calls the "British propaganda ma­chine." Such language, of course, reeks of paranoia. If it's not an international Zionist conspiracy, it must be a British one. After all, Hitler always said that the British were too Jewish anyway. 
And whom are you address­ing in your letter, McMahon? The whole ND community or only those of us who are biolog­ically Irish? Your invocation of one-sided historical memory as a guide to action is precisely what the Serbs are doing n()w. Unbelievable as it may seem, they think of themselves as vic­tims, misunderstood and op­pressed by the world. 

To use historical memory as one's orientation can only lead to inter-ethnic conflict: every group can think of good rea­sons to feel aggrieved about something that happened cen­turies ago. I suggest that you take non-violent resistance as your model. Were you to open yourself up to his message, I am sure that Gandhi's example would inspire you. 
Finally, for all your Irishness, you never mention a central feature of the Irish character ­the Roman Catholic Church. I suggest that you investigate what its stand is on the IRA and terrorism. To who's authority do you submit, McMahon? How Irish are you? 
DIRK MOSES 
Graduate Student in History 
Fischer Graduate Residences 

~ L -US a UJ£ a au
-u _; 
ACCENT 
Wednesday, March 23, 1994 page 11 
The Works Restaurant caters to service organizations 
-~-...=...~~~~~~& •· 
Easter comes to boys and girls 
By ANGELA CORNYN events. Accent Writer Both of these clubs cooperate and do tremen­dous work to ensure that the children have the 
On Saturday, March 26, The Works Hotel, on best amenities available. 501 North Niles Avenue, will be hosting its first "The Works has a long tradition in this area Easter party from 2 to 4 p.m. for children from and as a new company we want to follow The Latchkey Kids and the Boys and Girls Clubs through on that. of Michiana. By hosting a party for these children we will, 
Astrid Fingerhut, Marketing Director of The hopefully, make their Easter special and one to Works Hotel explained, "We are a new company, remember," continued Fingerhut. locally owned and the Easter party forms part of The festivities will include a spaghetti dinner, 
our program for what we have called 'The Year Egg Hunt in the restaurant, and a visit by the of our Community.' We would like to sponsor Easter Bunny with baskets. "This event has events that will contribute to our community." received marvelous support from the staff of the The Latchkey Kids club generally caters to chil­hotel," said Fingerhut. 
dren up to 12 years old. "I have worked in many hotels but here the They provide important services to children great enthusiasm among the staff and their will­including tutoring, recreational activities and of ingness to give freely of their time to community 
course what all children love, snacks. events is outstanding," stressed Fingerhut. 
The Boys and Girls club likewise makes a meaningful contribution in the lives of young The Works Hotel are obviously excited about people up to 18 years old. They provide a meet­this event so the party promises to be action ing place with a wide range of activities and packed with delicious delights. 

By KATIE MEYER Accent Writer 
Would you volunteer to shut down your business to hide eggs and entertain children? That's what the Works Restaurant is doing this Saturday from 2 to 4 p.m .. 
They are hosting an Easter Party for Michiana Latchkey children. 
South Bend previously knew The Works Restaurant and Hotel as The Old Spaghetti Works or The Spaghetti Factory. In January of last year they made a switch and became a local company . 
Having been operational as a locally owned company for one year, The Works staff at 501 North Niles intends to engage in activities which will directly affect South Bend. 
Who's idea was this? The fin­ger should be pointed at Astrid Fingerhut. When she was hired at the Works, she asked her employers about the possibili­ties of doing some community service. 
She "hadn't planned on the response. It was overwhelm­ing." The Works is now plan­ning an entire series of service activities and outreach pro­grams in an effort to interact with the community. 
1 They are kicking off this tra­dition with "A Year of Service". 
are not at home when the chil­dren get out of school. 
These children often crave special attention. The Latchkey Club was chosen because it is "entirely local", and the restau­rant felt it could make a differ­ence in the community by sup­porting the club. 
Fingerhut could not say for certain whether or not such activities will continue indefi­nitely, as the business has only been on its own for one year. 
She said that The Works would "try to continue" its ser­vice activities. The stability of the business will be the decid­ing factor. 
Latchkey children are chil­dren whose parents work and are not at home when the chil­dren get out of school. 
These children often crave special attention. The Latchkey Club was chosen because it is "entirely local", and the restau­rant felt it could make a differ­ence in the community by sup­porting the club. 
Fingerhut could not say for certain whether or not such activities will continue indefi­nitely, as the business has only been on its own for one year. ­
She sa·id that The Works would "try to continue" its ser­vice activities. The stability of the business will be the decid­ing factor. 
Saturday's party represents only a part of the activities planned. In January therestau­rant hosted a dinner for the Big Brothers and Big Sisters Club. There are more activities to fol­low. 
This Saturday the restaurant is hosting an Easter party for the. Latchkey Kids Boys and Girls Club of Michiana. 
The party will include a spaghetti dinner, an Easter egg hunt in the restaurant, and a visit by the Easter Bunny him­self. 
The maximum available capacity of the restaurant is 
120. They are expecting about 50 boys and 50 girls. 
Latchkey children are chil­dren whose parents work and 

·--·--~--· 

page 12 The Observer • NCAA Basketball Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
1994 NCAA 1\1EN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
1st Round 2nd Round Reglonals Semifinals Semifinals Reglonals 2nd Round 1st Round 
EASTill1f"'' 

( 1) Missouri 76 .... J1)_NorthCarolina 71 (16) Navy 53 ·r=:.:c:.:c=:=.:"l .J1~J~i~rty~1 l1) Missourl 
(8) Cincinnati 72 .-----1 ............ (~):""~h St. 64 (9) Wisconsin 80 (S!C::".Iif<?'.".i.a..s.!.. (12) Wis.-G.B. 61 
March 24 & 26 

Terrapins not surprised by success 
By DAVID GINSBURG Associated Press 

COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
Who says Maryland can't beat Michigan in the NCAA Midwest Regional? From the first game this season, the Terrapins have come up with one surprise after another. 
The season began with an overtime upset of Georgetown over Thanksgiving and continued with Saturday's 95-87 stunner over Massachusetts. The Terrapins went 8-8 in the Atlantic Coast Conference, finishing tied for fourth. 
Not a bad showing from a team without a senior and a starting lineup of three sophomores and two freshmen. 
·" "There hasn't been a time all year when this team ever has felt it wasn't good enough to play at this level," coach Gary Williams said. "I think with young players that's been a key for us all year. In other words, they've never been intimidated." And it's not likely that Maryland will fold under the pressure of playing against Michigan in Dallas on Friday night. Certainly, the Terrapins have nothing to lose. A little over two weeks ago, they weren't even sure they would receive an at-large bid to the tournament. Maryland got in as a 10th seed and opened with a minor upset of Saint Louis. Then came the real topper, a comeback win over a Massachusetts team that earli­er handed the Terrapins their most lop­sided defeat of the season. So much for the theory that Maryland would treat its first tournament appear­
.... 
ance since 1988 with the happy-to-be­here approach that usually spells disas­ter. The Terrapins could have certainly been forgiven for such an attitude, con­sidering the school was just two years removed from crippling NCAA sanctions that greatly hindered Williams' recruiting. 
"We recruited these guys, the freshmen and sophomore class, with the idea that if they came here Maryland would be just like any other school -that we would be off the sanctions," Williams said. "But saying it and actually getting it done are two different things." 
..\~)~~=~:~~~~!S.~ _(~) ~~.'<>.".<::~11 
67 March 18 & 20 
. ·-... (5)_ Indiana 84 (12) Ohio 72
f~:::d;:::: ········~. 
(4) Te.rnple 61 t ( 13) Drexel 39 
... .J~) f>je~r~k~.IIO(~1L~".~nS.!I.(. ) 90 
............. (11 _Pen~ .....
..~ (3) Florida 70 ( ...................J:~!..~IC?ri.~~.~ iJ~j~~d;i;;N.v:· ... (14)James Madison 62 March 17 & 19 (7) Ala.-Binninghem 46 
i::l)·:::~~:h....~.~·(........:~t~:~;.~;;;;,_~
1........ ···· · ·t...... (15) Rider 46 
SOUTHEAST 
.. J1J.P.ur(l.ue...83. 
AP 

Merchandise big business in Hoosier state 
(5) Indiana
~~J 
Los Angeles 
Miami 
(~)t.1i".':'~~C?'".!.4. .. 

(11)So.lllinois60 
P---~ 
(3) Louisville 67 . . 
(;;.):~~;~;~;:~~ :]~~~:'::I~;~C~IH. 
(7) Virginia 57 March 18 & 20 
(;:~i~~;:~~;~](!)IJirgi'.'il)~ 
(2) Arizona 81 

(15) Loyola. Md. ss ....JJ?.l.J.\r.iz..o..~a.:.:n ... 

(~)Illinois 7! ....... (9) Georgetown 73 
(~) G9Qr~etoYI~ B4 .. t· Oki~t;;;;; city:; Okla. 
(~llJ.G\AJQ~. March 18 & 20 
(12) T I 112 ·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.L(!.?.l.J!!.i~~..~. ·~ '
····· .... !!..~11....... (~l..Q.~;!., ..~!J!.!L. ·.·) (!:llNct.1~x,St. 55. (~l.TI!~~~J .... \.1.1JW..Ky.!f. .... 
(~)""lc_~i~n?~­
( 1 ~l.~l!fl!"'r.tiin~.!~.. 
~ 
ill.St. Louis 66 ·-··--..·-·-· -~ 
:~;~:;;;~;;: 7~~ 
.......\!.~>..!.':'i~·~···· 

(4) Okla. St. 80 
-· 

( ) seed Bold numbers-score 
March 25 & 27 

wi~hi;;~'::'~:· 
March 17 & 19 (10) Maryland 95 
\~l ~~~ ~~ lU9lM~~~~n9 
March 25 & 27 
National Championship 
..(3)~1<?~~... 
Charlotte, N.C. April4 

CHAMPIONSHIP GAME 
J~).C::o~':' ... 
Charlotte, N.C. 

:............................;···· 
April2 
CHAMPION 
Charlotte, N.C. April2 
Dallas 
Associated Press 

With two Indiana basketball teams heading for the Sweet Sixteen this week, Hoosier and Boilermaker alumni are clearing out the sporting goods stores and trying to score seats to the big games. 
The Indiana Hoosiers play Boston College in the East Regional semifinal in Miami Arena on Friday. The Purdue Boilermakers left Tuesday for the Southeast Regional semifinal against Kansas in Knoxville, Tenn., Thursday. 
Seats for this weekend's Indiana­Boston College game are fetching $200 for upper level seats and $300 for lower level seats, said Audrie Kaminsky, a Miami resident and 1991 IU alumna. She said she expects prices to be at least $50 to $75 higher by Wednesday. 
"It's wild down here," Kaminsky said. "We're psyched. You've got to realize how far away from everything we are down here, so it's neat to have Indiana coming here to play." 
Kaminsky has scraped together 20 tickets to share with her fellow Florida­based alumni, who recently revived the Miami IU alumni group. 
Flag makers around the state also have been busy as they field requests from fans buying IU and Purdue goods faster than producers can make them, said Karen Bush, president of the Flag and Banner Co. in Indianapolis. 
"In fact, they've bought the flags right off our poles. They've come off 1-65 to get them and when we said we're out, they've said, 'How about those on your poles outside?"' Bush said. 
There's usually a rush on IU goods this time of year because the Hoosiers are an annual NCAA tournament favorite. But B'ush couldn't remember when the company last sold out of Purdue items. 
One of the more popular items are wind socks -huge streamers of school colors that billow in the wind. 
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2  
cems per character per day, including all spaces.  
ILOST & FOUND I Work in the Wild! Tour guide, dude ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter  CARPENTERS HELPER: Seasonal position with large apartment com­munity. Basic knowledge of wood- REMODELED 1 BR HOME $400 MO. DEPOSIT REQUIRED CALL 256·9109 AFTER 5:00PM GRAD·  IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS REALTY 272-6306,232-1466  HEY YOU... 1. You were at 1647 S. Turtle Creek on Friday night.  
+ volunteer and government posi­ working. Will train the right person.  UATE STUDENT PREFERRED.  2. You took my 50mm camera  
LOST: GOLD RING W/ GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE  lions available at national parks. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over  Apply in person M-F, 9·5 to Hickory Village Apartments, 4312 Hickory,  Turtle Creek Townhome for school  TICKETS  WITHOUT permission. 3. Return it by Easter break 'cause  
REWARD OFFERED IF FOUND  25,000 openings! Apply now for  north of Edison.  year of 1994-95 is available. Call  someone saw you take it and  
PLEASE CALL X4298  best positions. For more info call: 1·  Reg at x1480 for information.  we'll come get you.  
206-545-4804  Billy Joeltix anywhere in Midwest- FOR SALE:  4. Returning it would be easier  
LOST · in SOH Green LL Bean  ext. N5584  will pay $75per Stevex2009  ONE PLANE TICKET TO/FROM  than coming and getting you.  
backpack & running shoes.  1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES.  DANSAS CITY OVER EASTER  
Reward. Call Mary 4-2240.  NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE  BREAK FOR $80. CALL NICKY IF  
MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES.  I I you drive to the Boston area  NOW & FALL STARTING AT  INTERESTED AT 4·1308.  SUMMER JOBS • ALL  
Found -Watch outside SDH Tues.  Arthur Victor Painting, Inc. is  alone on Easter break, they will  $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER­ LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­ 
am call 4-371 0 to identify  searching for ambitious students to  beat you up. Please take me with  TIES.272·6306  TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  
fill summer management positions  you. Call Jim x3521.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  
Found-Lady's watch in Nieuwland  throughout Indiana including South Bend. Complete training and field  CO-ED SUMMER CAMP IN MAINE  FOR SALE  NOT FOR SALE - NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­786-8373  
on Wed. Call631·6387 to identity  support. High income potential. 1­ seeks staff from 6-17 to 8-21 to  FREE UPRIGHT PIANO WITH  
800-nS-4745.  teach athletics, tennis, ropes cours- BENCH. YOU HAUL 277-4970.  
We know the sound of two hands  es, rock climbing, backpacking,  1984 BUICK ELECTRA LTD.  In a hurry ...  
clapping, but what is the sound of  swimming, fishing, sailing, waterski·  LIGHT BLUE 4-DOOR  don't worry.  
one hand clapping? My right hand  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING •  ing, performing arts and many  CALL X3001 WI OFFER  FAX ITI  
still lacks a black leather ladies'  Earn up to $2000+/month working  more. Age 20+. Contact Camp  at  
glove! Call Beth x 4994.  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Summer &  Wekeela's winter office at 1-800­959-3177.  FOR SALE • INDY 500 TICKETS.  PERSONAL  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  
- WANTED  Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634·0468  FOR RENT  GREAT 3RD +4TH TURN ACTION. CALL 272-7233.  WAY TO GO, CLAY COLONIALSI TAKE STATE!  NEW LOWER PRICES!  
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum- ext. C6675  ########### ••••••• #########  
mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­ FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  FOR SALE-Mac Powerbook 1 00  BUZZER BEATER! Last shot to  
0219  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  with 4/40 memory, contains Word  Math tutoring available ....  sign-up for BOOKSTORE B-BALL  
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER  CAMPUS. 272-0615  5.0 and misc. others $800/best offer  Senior honors math major will tutor  XXIII  This WED. 4-7pm in the  
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING · Earn up  EMPLOYMENT.  EARN UP TO  call Matt x3444  any 100 or 200-level math courses,  Huddle.  
to $2000+/rno. on Cruise Ships or  $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­ BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES- possibly higher levels as well.  
Land-Tour companies. World travel.  NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC.  ND/SMC EVENTS  ZENITH 286 Desktop LP, 20/40 MB  Times and rates negotiable.  
Summer & Full-Time employment  MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ (219)291-7153  fixed disks, 3.5" floppy, mouse,  Call Jeff@ 277-5612  Hesburgh Program in  
available. No exp necessary. For  ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL  modem, 14" VGA color monitor,  Public Service welcomes  
info. call 1-206·634-0468 ext.  OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN- programs+ EPSON L-1000 Action  ATTENTION SOPHO­ CHARLES LEWIS  
C5584  TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398  OAKHILL CONDO! Spacious liv- Printer. $375.00 includes desk,  MORES!IIIIIIII!I  Director, Center for Public Integrity  
ext A29.  ing/dining area, 1 BR w/lg. loft, 2  shelves, and p-stand.  "Washington's Mercenary Culture"  
SUBWAY is NOW HIRING  Bth, fireplace, W/D, vaulted ceiling,  CALL 273-1984 w/ offer!  Sophomore Sibs !-shirts will be  4:15p.m. Wed., March 23  
If you are an enthusiastic, depend- garage, balcony. 12 mo. lease, 2  available on March 23 from 4-5:30  207 DeBartolo  
able self starter,  person max. Walking distance to  in 215 LaFortune.  
we would like to talk to you. Flexible  SUMMER LIFE GUARD  campus. $650/mo. Call Caroline or  Macintosh Classic, lmagewriter  
hours and friendly atmosphere.  We need 1 or 2 fully-certified life- Bill at (317)297-8485  printer, system 7 and tons of soft- Cost is $5. If you would like one.  BOK!!!!!!!  
Call Jacki or Penny at 2n-7744 for  guards for our miniature wave pool  ware: Word, Page, Excel...  participant or not, please stop by to  
an interview.  in Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr.  purchase one. While supplies last.  
Complete season hours. Season  HAVE 2 BDR APT -LOOKING  $500 or best offer @273-3920  Adrock,  
Female roomate to live off-campus  5/25/94-Labor day, 1994.  FOR FML ROOMMATE FOR 1ST  ATTENTION SOPHO·  Will you go to my formal???  
(anywhere) next year.  Weekends only after school starts.  SEM ONLY '94 AT CASTLE PT.  2 BIKES $50. EA. & FAX. 272-6306  MORESIIIII!Illll  Spunky  
Please call Carolyn 284-4356  Call Jim Wyllie 277-1335 .  CALL 284-4045 OR x4394  
.,  

.. . 
Friday, March 24, 2994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 


Photo courtesy of Purdue Sports Information 
Boilermaker coach Gene Keady will attempt to guide Purdue's talented Cuonzo Martin and Glenn Robinson over Kansas in Southeast regional. 

Martin's range keys Purdue 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associaced Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 

Off-season work on his 3-point shot has paid off big for Cuonzo Martin and his Purdue team­mates. 
The 6-foot-6 junior missed all seven 3-pointers he attempted in his first two years at Purdue. This season he's hit on 78 of 176 attempts, giving the Big Ten champions a valuable out­side threat to go with the of­fensive potential of NCAA Divi­sion I scoring leader Glenn Robinson. 
"We felt he could make 3­pointers and asked him to work on it during the summer," Purdue coach Gene Keady said Tuesday. "He increased his shooting range. Once he devel­oped his confidence it's been really great." 
"I knew it would be a plus for our team if I could knock the shot down," Martin said of the long-range bombs he has hit with a 44 percent accuracy mark that has helped him post a career-high 16.0 scoring av­erage, second on the team to Robinson's 30.4 mark. 
"I shot thousands of them be­fore preseason practice began, just shooting from different spots," Martin said. "I wanted to be able to knock the shot down from all areas of the court and be consistent. Now it's my favorite shot." 
"We simply weren't going to win if he doesn't make 3-point­ers," Keady said. "It's that sim­ple." 
The Boilermakers, No. 3 in the final Associated Press poll, are seeded first in the South­east regional and take a 28-4 mark against fourth-seeded Kansas (27 -7) in one of Thurs­day's semifinals in Knoxville, Tenn. 
Marquette (24-8) meets Duke (25-5) in the other semifinal with the championship game set for Saturday night. 
"My confidence is pretty good right now. I'm just playing with poise," Martin said. "We know the old story that you just play them one game at a time. That's what got us the Big Ten championship. That's what got us this far in the NCAA." 
The two teams are meeting for only the third time. None of the players in Thursday's game had been born when the teams last met during the 1949-50 season and Kansas evened the series with a 60-52 victory on its home court. 
However, the Jayhawks have a big edge in tournament expe­rience. Purdue is in the Sweet Sixteen for the first time since 1980, when it lost to UCLA in the Final Four semifinals. Kansas, meanwhile, is seeking its third trip to the Final Four in four years. 
"There's no doubt they've got more tournament experience than we do. That's probably a big factor at this point," Keady said. "The next step is going through the mental part of the game and believing you can do it. Everyone has questioned us all year long. It's now a matter of taking care of business." 
While Purdue's scoring is dominated by Robinson, who needs just 27 points to become the 18th player in NCAA history to score 1,000 in a season, the Jayhawks depend on balance. 
Freshman in spotlight for IU 
Associated Press through the rest of the NCAA tournament. BLOOMINGTON, Ind. His inconsistent play at guard Steve Hart, likely to get a lot must improve if the Hoosiers 
more playing time in place of are to beat Boston College Fri­
injured Sherron Wilkerson, day night and then have a 
knows athletic talent alone isn't chance on Su:Q.day to reach the 
enough to carry Indiana Final Four, Hart said. "Sherron picks up a lot of things I don't do right," said Hart, a 6-foot-3 freshman who averages 4.1 points a game and has played only less minutes than Wilkerson this season. 
"He defmitely is a player we needed and now I have to pick up my game," Hart said. "I have to start working on things he had over me that I'm going to have to improve in order to play. I relied on him and I think he relied on me for some things, too. I've just got to pick up my game." 
Wilkerson, also a freshman, broke his left leg early in the second half of Sunday's 67-58 
victory over Temple. He un-
MARCH 23, 1994 
derwent surgery on Monday, and Dr. Steve Ahlfeld, a former Indiana player, inserted a rod and several screws to stabilize the fracture. 
The Hoosiers aren't sure who will fill Wilkerson's spot. Nor­mally, it would be senior Pat Graham, but Graham is playing with a sore, probably broken, left foot. 
He hasn't practiced much the last three weeks. Nor has start­ing guard Damon Bailey, whose torn abdominal muscle has held him back. 
Next in line, presumably, would be Hart. 
"Ball-handling and delivering the ball are two key things," Felling said of Hart. "He does­n't catch the ball in traffic, which I think is concentration. Sherron just saw the floor bet­ter and Steve just doesn't see some things. He has sort of a predetermined thing on what he wants to do." 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 7-9 PM 
SEXUALITY AND THE NoTRE DAME STUDENT 
NoTRE DAME, 46556:WHAT Do We KNow? 
What issues and concerns does our community have about sexuality? The panel will focus on life and relationships for men and women at Notre Dame. 
Presenters: Rectors Mary Vaccaro and Fr. Steve Newton, C.S.C. and Notre Dame students. 
It's not too late to 
Work Cateringfor Graduation ~ -15 

And Board plus 
$6°0/hour
-Each session will include: • Presentation by speakers or panel 
• Facilitated small-group discussions • Good food and drink 
0MPUS 
Students are welcome to attend all three sessionstV11NI5TRY or as many of the three as they can. 
Housing deadline -April 4 Catering Office -Basement SDH 
or Call 631-5449 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
Goetz's heroics salvage split in Bloomington 
.. 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Sporn Writer 

Liz Goetz must have been sav­ing her first career home run for a dramatic moment. 
The waiting paid off as Goetz became the hero Tuesday evening in Bloomington. 
With the Notre Dame 


softball team Joy Battersby trailing 3-1 in the top of the sixth inning, Goetz stepped up and slammed a three-run shot, giving the 
Kansas State given tough test by Gonzaga 
Associated Press 

MANHATTAN, Kan. 
Gonzaga, a newcomer to post­season play, put a scare into Kansas State in the second round of the National Invita­tional Tournament that neither side should soon forget. 
Askia Jones scored a game­high 22 points, including two free throws with 4. 9 seconds left, to preserve Kansas State's 66-64 victory Tuesday night. 
The victory sends the Wildcats (19-12) into the quarterfinals against Fresno State, which beat Brigham Young 68-66 Tuesday night. Gonzaga ended its first post-season appearance in its 36 years in Division I with a 22-8 record. 
"It was a good effort, but when you've been doing this for 28 years you're not satisfied with artistic impression," Gonzaga coach Dan Fitzgerald said. 
~~AS YOU WISH'' 
I M P 0 R T S 
10-50% OFF1 
Jewelry, Accessories, & Clothing
from 
Guatemala Nepal Peru Brazil Mexico India 
March 21-26 (Sat.)
10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
LaFortune Rm. 108 
(near telephones) 
Restaurant Special: 
Thurs -$4.99 All you can eat Pizza & other Great Domestic Specials 2610 Prairie Ave. 234-4149 
Irish (12-12) and freshman pitcher Joy Battersby (6-4) a dramatic win and a split of a double-header at Indiana University. 
Notre Dame was beaten in a first game pitcher's duel 2-1. 
The Irish looked as if they fi­nally exorcised the insecurities of their spring break perfor­mance in coming back against the Hoosiers, one of the tough­est teams in the region and one of the only teams to beat sec­ond-ranked Oklahoma State. Notre Dame began its come­back when Amy Rueter reached first on a fielder's choice and advanced on Andy Keys' sharp single to left. With runners on 
'There are 13 kids down there, and they are all crying, because it means a lot to them. They didn't come in here think­ing this was David against Go­liath," Fitzgerald said. "They are competitive kids. I just told them, this was something that we will remember for the rest of our lives." 
Kansas State coach Dana Alt­man called it "a heck of a game. They are as disciplined of a team as we've played all year." 
Kansas State took the lead for good at 64-62 with 1:30 left on Demond Davis' three-point play. 
After Jones' free throws, Gonzaga threw the ball in to Goss, who ended the scoring with a slam dunk with 1.5 sec­onds left. 
Beane added 12 points, six rebounds and five assists for the Wildcats, while Cunning­ham scored 13 points. 
the corners, Goetz capped the rally with her homer. 
"The key in game two was that we just continued to battle back," said head coach Liz Miller. "Goetz's home run was very timely and exciting, being the game-winning hit and the first of her career." 
Battersby was effective in game two, giving up five hits in seven innings of work. "We still want Joy to be a more con­sistent pitcher," Miller said. "But I felt that she got stronger in that late innings when the pressure was on." 
Unfortunately for the Irish and Terri Kobata, the late-in­ning drama went in favor of the 
Upstart Siena wins again in NIT 
W!JAT TO DO WIT!J YOUQ. Llfb..? 
0 Are you a single, Catholic woman? 0 Are you independent and full of life? 0 Are you committed to a simple lifestyle? 
If you are, call Sr. Margaret Hoffelder 1219-422-6675) to wonder together how your life and ours might join to serve the world's poor. 
"Reflections on Current Contentions" Tuesday, March 29 7:30PM Stepan Center 
$3 Students, Faculty, and Staff $5 General Public 
Reception to follow in the Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk _D 
Hoosiers in game one. 

Notre Dame was clinging to a 1-0 lead in the top of the sixth when catcher Michelle Ven­turella teed off against Kobata, smacking a two-run homer and giving Indiana the win. 
In the battle of staff aces, Ko­bata struck out seven and gave up only four hits in six innings. The Hoosiers' Gina Ugo gave up seven hits, including catcher Sara Hayes' seventh home run of the season, breaking the Notre Dame single season record she set last season. 
"We hit the ball hard," Miller said of game one. "Both teams played a good game, but we didn't take advantage of some opportunities by getting hits at the right time." 
Notre Dame stranded eight base-runners in the game, in­cluding twice leaving senior captain Christy Connoyer, who led the team with two doubles, on the basepaths. 
The Irish must now prepare for this weekend's Winthrop Invitational in Rock Hill, S.C. Notre Dame squares off against Drexel, Maine, Mercer and host Winthrop in pool play Friday and Saturday before beginning the single-elimination tourna­ment Saturday night. Last sea­son the Irish shut out Mercer 8­0 on a two-hitter by Kara Bran­denburger. 
for Siena with a 3-pointer 1:26 into the game, one of four 3­pointers he hit in the first half. He also made three free throws with 5:12 left in the half after he was fouled by LeVeldro Simmons on a 3-point attempt, giving Siena its biggest lead of the half at 41-28. 
The closest Tulane could get in the second half was 64-55 with 9:38 left. 
By JOEL STASHENKO 
Associated Press 

ALBANY, N.Y. 
Doremus Bennerman scored 33 points for the second straight game, leading Siena to an 89-79 victory Tuesday night over Tulane in the second round of the National Invitation Tournament. 
Siena (23-7) reached the 
quarterfinals of the NIT for the second time since 1991. It ad­vances to play the winner of Tuesday night's Old Dominion­Bradley game on Thursday. 
Bennerman had 19 of his points in the first half, as Siena built a 12-point halftime lead and Tulane (18-11) never seri­ously challenged in the second half. Bennerman opened the scoring 



-l 
I Wednesday, March 23, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 I 
I 
I 
I
Haskins upset with media First Round of 16 
Associated Press son by protesting the foul dis­Ten schedule with a 5-4 record. parity between Minnesota's To Haskins, a 20-victory sea­
'sweet' for Tulsa
MINNEAPOLIS Chad Kolander and opposing son should be reason for only 
Coach Clem Haskins has vowed to be more combative in dealings with officials and the 
media. 
"I think Bobby Knight has the best philosophy with the media -treat them like 


dogs, because Clem Haskins most of them deserve it," said Haskins, the University of Minnesota men's basketball coach. He also said he planned to risk suspension early next sea-
The Choice Is Yours An Honest Look At A Tough Question 
College is definitely a time for decisions. "What should be my major}' Where should I live? What am 1 going to do when I finish school?" All are important quest1ons because they affect our lives in significant ways. 
Then there's the question of alcohol. Perhaps you, or others around you, hav~ y~t to really question the role alcohol plays day to da~. weekend to w~ekend ..It you live 1n a ·normal" college environment, you are constantly g1ven the oppo.rtumty to dec1de ho:-v alcohol will play into your personal and social life, thereby affectmg your academiCS, your relationships and your health. 
·Alcohol doesn't' play a role in mY life. . • 
Alcohol abuse and conditions have become the number one health problem in America, and there are few people who have not been affected by alcohol a?use these days. Some lose jobs, suffer from alcoholism, sacrifice relationships (bre~kup or d1vorce), or cause drunk-driving crashes. Even if alcohol isn't a huge factor 1n your life: cha~~es are s~me of your family or friends have suffered negative consequences from their dec1s1ons to dnnk, or 
are showing signs of future problems. 
Then, think of how alcohol affects you indirectly. Drinking and ?riving crashes are the number one killer of Americans aged 18-24. Is it any wonder your Insurance rates are so hig_h? Or, di,q .Y.<?U ~noyv t~a1_90 P,e~~efl~ of all v~r:daiJ.~m on .college ~ampu_ses are resul!s of drunken behavior'? Tnafmoney shows up on your tUition bill. EacH trm-e someone orr your campus makes a bad decision regarding alcohol, you pay the price. 
Think of your friends on your residence hall floor, on your intramural team, in your first classes. How many will drop out of school for ·academic reasons· that are really rel~ted to "party reasons.· How many will ruin romantic relationships because of alcohol-related behavior? Will any drink to deal with a rough week? 
All of these real life dangers are tied to each man or woman's personal decisions regarding alcohol. If your decisions about alcohol depend on the decisions of your friends, or if you are simply unable to predict what your decision will be from situation to_ situat!on! it's time to give some serious thought to the question, "What role does alcohol play 1n my life. 
Checking Yourself Out 
In almost every area of life, evaluation is a valuable tool. Midterms come out, employees get ·review," we step on a scale. By checking ourselves out, we can celebrate our successes and stop ourselves before our ·areas of weakness· get the best of us. 
The same is true for our decisions regarding alcohol. You need to "check in with yourself,· and by doing so, you can best control whether or not your decisions to drink-or not to drink -are having negative effects on your ·self image."_ After all, it is better for you to control alcohol and its impact on you than to let it control you. 
Sometimes it is helpful to enlist the help of a campus counselor, a trusted advisor or level-headed friend. There is nothing "stupid" or ·embarassing· about taking the time to really find out what role alcohol plays in your life. 
If you are choosing to drink, make sure your actions are consistently characteristic. of the healthy person you want to be. Take all precautions to guard against negative consequences of ·your personal decision." 
If you choose not to drink, great? Enjoy yourself and never allow your choice to be discredited. 
If after careful thought and honest evaluation, you think you might have a drinking problem of any degree, get help to change your influences, your behaviors and the negative results that are currently present in your life. Don't accept excuses. and don't talk yourself out of finding help. If your friends are part of the problem and unable to be "part of the solution,· you need to take a close look at your chosen peer group. Even one bad incident related to alcohol can have dramatically negative effects on your life, so don't wait around. 
And, if you have a friend who is having a hard time making a sound "personal decision," help her or him out. Your love and concern for another person is reason enough to confront. Consider the alternatives, seek advice from a counseling or health care professional and take the time to locate the resources available in your community. 
The choice to care is yours. 
Taken from "The Choice Is Yours: An Honest Look At A Tough Question." BACCHUS Educational Pamphlet, 1991, BACCHUS of the U.S., Inc. 
This week is National Collegiate Health and Wellness Week, brought to you by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. For more information or help, please call 631-7970. 
centers. 

Haskins made his comments Monday in an interview with the Star Tribune as the team flew home from Sacramento, Calif., where the Gophers lost Sunday to Louisville in the sec­ond round of the NCAA men's basketball tournament. 
Haskins was stung by criti­cism about the team's inconsis­tency during what he called a "very, very successful season." 
He had accepted the pressure to contend early in the season, then grew angry at criticism of his team when the Gophers reached the midpoint of the Big praise. The failure to contend in the Big Ten was tied to Jayson Walton's season-long knee problems, he said. 
But what of the frequent ups and downs? The Gophers de­feated Wisconsin twice by more than 30 points and trounced Indiana by 50. 
They lost at Penn State and Iowa, and needed three over­times to defeat last-place Iowa at home. Walton played in all of those games. 
"If we get in postseason play, people have no need to worry about ups and downs," Haskins responded. 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press 
TULSA, Okla. 

Coach Tubby Smith has Tulsa in the NCAA tournament's final 16 for the first time, and Golden Hurricane fans couldn't be more thrilled -or worried. 
They have been through this routine before: Dynamic coach comes to small university with exciting, uptempo style; team makes a name for itself; coach leaves for bigger job. 
It happened with Nolan Richardson when he arrived from Western Texas Junior Col­lege in 1980. 
In five years at Tulsa he won an NIT championship, made three NCAA tournament appearances and had a 119-37 record before leaving for Arkansas. 
Tulsa, which plays Arkansas in the Midwest Regional semi­finals Friday night in Dallas, was never the same until Smith arrived from Kentucky, where he was an assistant under Rick Pitino. 
With three consecutive win­ning records, the first two un­der adverse conditions, and the school's surprising run through the NCAA tournament, Smith is arguably one of the hottest coaching prospects around. 
"If Denny Crum can build a championship team at Louisville, someone can do it at Tulsa," said Bob Gardner, a 
......,.,Tn COLLECI'IBLES FROM TilE 
LP's-CD's-45's-12 Uu:lt singles-impo..u posters -lflllgaziltD -boob -cOflaTf photos -video.s t-shi..u-cassettes-pins-pa~does tutd wuu:ll more!!/ 
FOR DEALER 


NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS TtC> MAJoiDUL 
longtime season-ticket holder. "I'm thinking Tubby is the right man. I'd love to see him fulfill our dream." 
But already Tennessee has asked for permission to meet with Smith, and outgoing ath­letic director Rick Dickson said he's gotten a couple of other feelers. 
"We're just telling everybody they need to wait until basket­ball is over," said Dickson, who leaves next month to become athletic director at Washington State. 
Smith said he is willing to lis­ten to offers, "but I'm really go­ing to listen to the University of Tulsa first." 
He said during a conference call Tuesday that Tennessee was an offer he would listen to, but he refused to elaborate. 
"This is where I want to be at this point," Smith said earlier. "I think we've got a program well on its way to being what we all hope we can do. You've got to do the best job you can where you are. If you do, peo­ple are going to recognize you're doing a good job, and you're going to always be in demand. That's what I want to do." 
Houston recognized that a year ago, and Smith was pre­pared to sign a contract until changing his mind at the last minute. 
"Very simply, I just felt better here," he said. 
SOUTH BEND 
RECORD&CD 

COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, MARCH 27TH 10:00 AM-5:00 PM ADMISSION $3.00 AT: THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) SlSDIXIEWAYN. 
US 31 -33 NORTII 

100 OFF ADMISSION WT0J TinS AD 
BUY. SELL. TRADE 
~ C9AC:H \,U~c'J.,S 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 23rd 7:30pm ROOM 155 DEBARTOLO HALL 
A NOSTALGIC COACH AND HIS CAMERA WANDER THROUGH THE MANY PERSONALITIES OF LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL IN SOUTH BEND, AND FIND THE PARENTS MORE FASCINATING THAN THE PLAYERS. 
Admission Free 
• 

r 
.. 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
Heart of the order gives Red Sox potent attack 
By HOWARD ULMAN Associated Press 
FORT MYERS, Fla. 
The Boston Red Sox are belt­ing the ball again just two sea­sons after having their worst batting average since 1968. 
Mike Greenwell, Mo Vaughn and Andre Dawson -the heart of the order -all are hitting over .300. The team already has more homers and as many wins as it had for the entire spring training a year ago. 
Monday's 7-6 win over the Chicago White Sox improved the Red Sox record to 11-7. Their batting average went to .293, and they had 18 homers. 
Fencing 
continued from page 20 
points swing, catapulting the 
Irish past the Nittany Lions by a 
count of 4350 to 4075. 
A 275 point margin of victory may sound as insurmountable as it did when Penn State was leading by that count. In reali­ty though, it came down to some crucial bouts in the pool competition preserve the title. The chance of coming back looked bleak early as the Irish blew a 4-2 lead against Princeton, losing 5-4. Needing the next two bouts to enter the winner's bracket, Notre Dame beat NYU 5-3, but found them­selves trailing 4-2 to Air Force and on the brink of elimination. 
Each of the next three bouts would determine if the Irish would go home with the gold or the silver. The first two bouts were won by the Irish, 5-4, ty­ing the match at 4-4. In the fi­nal bout, junior Rakesh Patel was leading 4-3 only to have his match tied to the delight of the Penn State supporters on the sidelines. However, Patel maintained his composure and got the winning touch to win 5­4 and send the Irish into the winner' s bracket. 
"They (Air Force) had beaten us at Harvard and it looked like they were going to do it again," said DeCicco. "I couldn't begin to describe how happy I was to see us come back like that." 
For Coach DeCicco it was sweet revenge to beat Air Force, a team which knocked his Irish team out of the tour­nament in 1971 when they were contending for the title. 
"It was funny that it ended up that way," commented DeCicco. 
The semi-fmals saw Patel and senior Rian Girard each win two bouts over Wayne State, while captain Greg Wozniak added the other win to defeat the No. 1 seed and probably the best epee team in the nation, 5­1, officially bringing the cham­pionship home to Notre Dame. Princeton downed the Irish 5-2 in the epee finals, but by that time it was all academic. 
"This was a total team effort," said DeCicco. "This championship was won by all four weapons making the championship round. All of the fencers on the team con­tributed to our win in their own way." 
Those contributions consti­

., tuted a first place finish by the men's foil team on Sunday, a third place fmish by the wom­en's foil team on Sunday, and a 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Last spring, they finished at 11­20 with a .276 average and 16 homers. 
"I don't think there's a prob­lem about peaking early," Greenwell said. "Hitting well in spring training builds confi­dence that could carry over into the season." 
Vaughn has been the team's most impressive hitter. With two doubles and two RBis against Chicago, he improved his major-league leading totals to 20 RBis and 45 total bases. He was tops in the majors in homers with seven, the same number of singles he had. 
He even crushes the ball on outs. He hit his seventh homer 
fourth place finish by the sabre team two days ago. All of these teams were also motivated by a story in the NCAA news flyer that proclaimed Penn State was expected to repeat. 
"Obviously, when your not expected to win, it becomes a motivational factor and only makes the win that much sweeter," added DeCicco. "It's like someone telling you that you can't do something. You want to go out there and prove them wrong." 
Coach DeCicco also was ex­tremely happy for three people who contributed who the team's success this year. Those three had been through the tough times in 1991 when the Irish were favored to win the title but came up short. 
"I must say that I am espe­cially happy for assistant coach Ed Hauger and seniors Greg Wozniak and Rian Girard who were on the 1991 team that fin­ished runner-up to Penn State," said DeCicco. "Now they can put that ghost behind them and wear their national cham­pionship rings with pride." 
..........(Pill~ 

·1l:41 til 5:JI7:41 11:11 ~Tla (Pill): 1:41 4:15 1:41 I :15 _..., (PCll): t15 tti nil.. 1llllbill Jldl (PCll): Z:. 4:11 7:111 :111 Dl Cilia (PC!I): 1:11 t15 5:15 7:3111:31 NIDI C. A1/J (PCll): ·1t31l:455:117:151:41 
Sunday in an 11-7 loss to Min­nesota but said his best at bat was a first-inning opposite field drive that left fielder Alex Cole caught at the wall. 
That's the way batting coach Mike Easler taught him to hit. The results were obvious last year when he had 29 homers, 101 RBis and a .297 average in his first season as Boston's full­time first baseman. 
The team's batting average improved from .246 in 1992, lowest since .236 in 1968, to .264 last season. The homer total increased from 84 to 114. Vaughn expects more im­provement this season. 
"It's the second year with (the same) batting coach," he said. The players "have been to­gether for a while now so guys know what they want to do at the plate. 
"Everybody doesn't think we have the capabilities to go out and produce," he added. "We're going to surprise some people. They've got us picked down in the division. Fine. We'll sneak up on somebody." 
Boston is in the tough AL East with World Series winner Toronto, Baltimore, the New York Yankees and Detroit. 
But after beating the White Sox, Dawson was batting .391 with four homers, Vaughn .365 and Greenwell .326 with 12 games left. Last spring, Vaughn hit .403 with six homers, but Dawson hit .288 with two homers and Greenwell .261. 
Going into Tuesday night's game against Minnesota, Boston had scored at least seven runs in six of its previous nine games and was averaging 
5.7 runs per game compared with 4.3 last spring and 4.2 in the regular season. 
Infielders Scott Cooper and John Valentin are back for their second season as regulars after hitting well last year. And in the offseason, the Red Sox signed two free agents who have start­ing jobs, Dave Valle and Otis Nixon. 

GET REAL EXPERIENCE 
MANAGING A BUSINESS 
APPLY FOR A STUDENT MANAGER POSITION AT THE HUDDLE 
REWARDS: 

• 
$6 I 0 PER HOUR 

• 
WORK ON CAMPUS 

• 
FREE MEALS AT WORK 


* GREAT EXPERIENCE TO ADD TO YOUR RESUME 
REQUIJU;MENTS: 
• 
I 5-20 HR.'S PER WEEK 

• 
A SlRONG DESIRE TO LEARN *HARD WORK 


* 
WORK SOME NJmiT SHIFTS 

* 
WORK SOME WEEKENDS 


• BE ABLE TO WORK EXTRA ON HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 
1\PPLYIN PERSON AT THE HUDDLE LOCATED IN THE I.AFORTIJNE S11JDENT CENTER ASK FOR JIM. 631-{i902 POSmON IS l'OR FALL SEMESTER lRAINING WILL START AS SOON AS THE SUCCESSFUL APPLICANTS ARE AVAILABLE. COULD WORK TillS SliMMER IF DESlRED 
LAFAYETTE SouARE 
T 0 W N H 0~ E S 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are The Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CoNDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 

--~~~~--~----~--~----~----------------------~--~-----------------~--~~-.---------------------------------------------------~-, 
Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Former Irish head coach Gerry Faust returned to campus yesterday to visit with Lou Holtz and the Notre Dame football squad during its first day of spring practice. 
Notre Dame Students & Faculty We want to make your road to 
success alittle smoother! 

~~ts;--------------­
·•· Service ColipOn . . 

100/oOff
Your nextselvice visitatJotdants 
I Pri.·orOffers Exc.luded··· ... ne.x.t.·.Vis·.·.t.••. to . . 's. only•.. 1
•..·.····'Ill·is offergood. on.· .... ..·.·. Jordan...
L _.__ Some ~ttictions maY ~y; ~lus foc.~ls. today~ _ _._ _J 
FREE SERVICE SHUTTLE 


We service all Ford, Lincoln-Mercury can &. trucks and all imports At Jefferson and Cedar Stteets, Mishawaka 
Import Service: ( 219) 259-1981 ext. 271• Ford Service: (219) 259-1981 ext. 541 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 
By the time you have graduated from college, you'll have the credentials of 


an Army officer. You'll also have the self-confidence and discipline it takes to succeed in college and beyond. 
ARMY ROTC 
TIE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CD TAlE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
Faust 
continued from page 20 
Faust was the last man to coach the Irish before Holtz took over in 1986. In five sea­sons with Notre Dame, he com­piled a record of 30-26-1. in­cluding 1-1 in bowl games. The Irish defeated Boston College 19-18 to win the Liberty Bowl in 1983. 
The list of well-known ath­letes to play under Faust in­cludes Allen Pinkett, Blair Kiel, Steve Beuerlein, and Dave Duerson.Only assistant coach George Kelly remains from the Faust era. Once an inside line­backer. coach, Kelly now has a position in the athletic de­partment. 
Faust has gone on to coach at the University of Akron, a member of the Mid-America Conference, where he has started to build a powerhouse on the small college level. 
"We're getting better, and we're starting to be more com­petitive." Faust said. "As long as we keep recruiting as we have done the past two years, we'll be real competitive." 
Spring practice began last week for the Zips, but Faust gave the team the week off for spring break, deciding to take a trip to beautiful South Bend to visit his old stomping grounds. 
Though he is gone from the limelight of Notre Dame, Faust still holds a special place in his heart for the school. 
"It's great to be back on cam­pus. Notre Dame is a terrific place," stated the coach. "Any young person who goes here is a part of something special." 
But they could still use some words of wisdom from an ex­perienced Domer. 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY ELLEN! 

You've Come ALong Way Baby 


Love, Mom, Dad, Suzanne '93, Chris and ijoney. 
dIL 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE -uF STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOUCISM 
presents 
SACRED SPACE: PARISH AND NEIGHBORHOOD IN CHICAGO 
Ellen Skerrett 
Independent Scholar and Author 
Thursday, March 24, 1994 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 

lenge, a paid six-week summer course in leadership training. 
page 17 

-~·---~-----~-~---~-----~-------.. 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
Summer Sanders enjoying life out of the pool 
By MICHAEL FLAM and 10 NCAA championships. Associated Press She still does endorsements for Speedo and Power Bar, and INDIANAPOLIS speaks to high school students 
In the summer of 1992. on a nationwide tour. Summer Sanders charmed And, she's a full-time senior at America with a sparkling smile Stanford, due to _graduate in and swimming that earned her December. four medals at the Barcelona Sanders ended her collegiate Olympics. swimming career to take ad­
Now 21, the Californian with vantage of the fleeting fame the unusual name and the that came with her Olympic never-frown personality still medals -two golds, one silver has reason to smile -even and one bronze. though her life involves staying "Opportunities from Olympic dry. fame-type stuff don't come 
Following the Olympics, around that often and they Sanders gave up her collegiate don't last for long," she said. eligibility at Stanford after two "My parents and my coaches seasons, two American records and I decided that it would be 
r------------------------,
: Opening Day is Coming! : 
; And we want YOU ; to throw out the first pitch! 1 I Would you like to represent the student body at the I March 30 home opener of the 1994 Notre Dame I Baseball season at the innaugural game of Frank Eck I Stadium by throwing out the first pitch? g:~ 
Just fill this out and return it to: ~rt~ Student First Pitch Contest l ~ ·Sports Marketing Department -JACC -~ 
• 


by 5:00p.m. Monday, March 28.\.P 
~lo+-1J.....IJ,;.''-"Q. 
Address:________________ 
Phone:__________ Class:._____ 
Winner will be notified by 6 p.m. Monday, March 28 
~------------------------~ 
best, and we kind of guessed. It was a gut feeling. 
"But I really feel good about this decision. I have to say I was questioning whether I should have given up my eligi­bility or not, but you always seem to want what you don't have. If I would have been swimming, I probably would have said, 'God, I should have given it up."' ..., 
Sanders spent a few days in Indianapolis recently, pursuing her potential new career. A communications major, Sanders did commentary for CBS-TV at the NCAA Division I Women's Swimming and Diving Championships. 
She also handed out the awards in the 200-yard indi­vidual medley, and later said it felt strange. 
"It was really funny," Sanders said. "The weirdest part was walking out but not being a swimmer. I'm used to your teammates giving you high­fives and here I am leading. 
"I think it made me feel pretty old. But it was an honor." 
"I think the weird thing was she came in with my class," said Lea Loveless, a classmate of Sanders who finished second in the event. "I would've liked to see her on the first-place stand. The irony was staring me in the face when she gave me the award." 

BUZZER BEATER!! 
BOOKSTORE BAS_KETBALL 
LAST SHOT TO SIGN UP TODAY 4-7 PM AT THE HUDDLE 
BUT YOU'VE GOT TO SIGN-UP TO BE IN 
THE WORLD'S LARGEST 5-0N-5 TOURNAMENT. 
FUN-FOULS-FRIENDS-FALLS-FREAKS 
1994Morrissey Manor 
Fi Fes iva 


Thursday, March 24, at 7:30p.m. Stepan Center 
$2 Admission 
Proceeds to Benefit: St. Hedwigs Outreach 

Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 




SPELUNKER 
Al-l t-1, HANK so BLISSFULLY UNAWARE OF 1\-le MISER'( I'M PLOTTlNCJ FoR YOO. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
L''IE. OEC IOED 'IOJRE GO\1'-l<; '5\WHo~ \0 WOR.I( 1-if>..Rilt.l<. FROM LOW A.\ E'IERi\\-1 It\& SEli'­To FEEL A.N.D \3\.JilD ESIEE\v\. GOO\J 1\BM S<ME C\-\f>..RK'itR' 
\'1('{'3~\._1=. 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
ACROSS 27 Post 57 Shade maker 1 Funny pages 29 Show anger, in =eo Twosome 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+--~----=-!'t:"ililt:::+.':~ ~.;..+::;~~~~=+:;..r.;;.fll!!llt;;..;+;;-F--! 
":-+.:t:+=i 25 Loop for a lobe -=+.:.+=+=-! 28 Oscar­Renta 

NATIONAL COLLEGIATE HEALTH AND WELLNESS WEEK 
What is Wellness? -See last Monday's Observer, page 3 How Can I Eat Nutritionally Sound? -In Yesterday's Observer, page 4 Are You Making the Right Choices? -See Today's Observer How Do I Cope with Stress? -In Tomorrow's Observer What's the Big Deal About Binge Drinking? -See Friday's Observer 
Be Sure To Sign the Contract For Life, Sponsored by SADD 
This Week Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
81 Season in St.-L6 82 Turner and 
. -pappas ­
83 Way back 88 Furniture wood 87 Crudity 88 Gui~ness Book suffixes 89 Creator of 1-Across 
DOWN 

1 Start of a Gardner title 2 C.B.ers' names 3 Brennan and Ford 4 Calendar abbr. 5 Match play? 
8 Chung's partner 1=-+-+--+-­
7 Singer Nina 8 Real ending in London 91978 Yankee hero 10Renowned costume 
designer 11 Bounce 12Amend 13 Whole amount 
14 "Pow!" places 22 Quakers 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
I'VE. CON\/JNCED 1H€M 

To ENLIST COW-Bov 'S 
AID IN Tt-IWARTING. ~ 
EXTDRTlON OF :TEN> JUST AS YCYJ COMMANDED, 0 q IZE.AT £NH1R. 
BILL WAITERSON 
I WO~\)ER \\= P..N80N.E E\.SE IS f>..S SC.f!._REO ~~0\J\ \1-I.E F\JTUR£. 1'--S I 1\t~. 
I'VE FO\J\'-\0 T\-I~T l\'1\1'1\'t.'i>\1\TE GRI\1\F\Cf>..T\Ot-.\ 
\S n\~ 0\'-ll'{ 
TI-l\N.E, 11-\A.T 
\-\ELl'S ME. 
OF INTEREST 

30 Like Gen. 44 Hospital 53 Mardi Gras Schwarzkopf personnel sights 
DINING HALL 

31 Prefix with cycle 45 Feature of many 55 Friendly Islands 
or sex 34 Gym exercises 36TV host, 
1955-82 38 N.Y.C. div. 39 Bambi's aunt 
40 Break 

41 Pipe openings 42 Show anger, in away 
court buildings 58 First ed. 

46 Increase the 59 Actress Olin angle of 
84 Dutch painter elevation 
Garard­49 Without cause Berch so Long, bony fish 85 Thrash 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
i 
1 
j 
1 
I 
1 
... 

favorite 11 Composer Satie · · 
t lJ i;x,~;ltJn!L--__.. ­
adventure 
1& "I came," to Caesar 17 Recruiter's objective 18 Professional suffixes 19 Three after B 20Cousin of "Eureka!" 21 Shows how 23 Stout 24 Hawaii's state bird 2&Screen's partner 
a way 32 According to 33 They make a 
_....., --blosso--m 
....com 35 Satisfied subscribers 37 Profligate 40 Tubular pasta 
V. . , S 43 1ctor~a s ecret selection 47 Blown-up photo: Abbr. 48 Discovery of 1781 51 Stevedore's, e.g. 52 Philatelist's item 
54 Little pest 56 One over due 
.. 



I 
I f 
t 
i 
I 
c. 
t 
f 
t 
r I 
I 
r 
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, March 23, 1994 
National Champions 

Epeeists win on fin~l day to top Penn State 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 

In a more recognized sport, books would have been written about a comeback like this. ESPN would have given it top-billing, and across the nation, newspapers would have woven a story about a team with an uncommon determination that produced a team effort every time necessary. 
However, for the Irish fencing team, its coaches, and the small handful of zealous fans, that all doesn't seem to matter. What matters is that the 1994 Notre Dame fencing team managed to accomplish what no Irish athletic team has done since 1988: win a national championship. 
The fencing team added to their quiet tradition of success yesterday as they won their first NCAA Championship since the men's and women's championships were combined in 1990 and their fifth title over­all. 
"It's unreal," said an elated men's head coach Mike DeCicco. "We only won one weapon the whole tournament, but still captured the overall team title." 
Notre Dame trailed Penn State by 275 points entering yesterday's epee competi­tion, but the unbelievable performance by the men's epee team highlighted a 550 
see FENCING I page 16 


"We're No. 1. We're No. 1." Those jubilant shouts were last heard around campus after the Irish defeated Florida State 31­24 in November. Another sign of that victory was the No. 1 sign being lit atop Grace Hall. 
However, is that honor only reserved for the football team? 
Upon the fencing team's ar­rival last night, it was rumored that the vaunted Grace "No. 1" would shine again. Being the first national championship since 1988, this seemed to be an achievement worthy of illumina­tion. However, it doesn't look like it's going to happen. 
"We congratulate the fencing team and support them," said Grace Hall president AI Marchetti. "However, (lighting the No. 1) is a tradition reserved for the football team when they rise to the top in the polls." 
-JOE VILLINSKI 

Bobby Taylor's role looms large 
Junior safety plays teacher to young defensive backs 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
Bobby Taylor will 
· • be just as much of a · coach as a player this spring. It was evident yesterday at the first day of spring football. 
"Come on Swiney. Get there Brian," yelled Taylor. 

The junior free safety is the lone returning starter in the defensive back­field. Obviously, his talent on the field is a key ingredient for the Irish. However, 
see TAYLOR I page 17 
Gerry Faust returns for friendly advice By MIKE NORBUT Assistant Spons Editor  
As the Notre Dame football team began practice yesterday, they were graced by the presence of an old friend. Gerry Faust, the former head coach of the Irish, rode shotgun in head coach Lou Holtz's golf cart for most of yester­day's drills, stopping occasionally to greet old friends or to offer a few words of encouragement to some of the new players. And who knows, he might have given Holtz a little free advice as well. "Lou doesn't need any advice," Faust commented. "He's doing a great job here at Notre Dame. He's a great coach and a great friend. The work he has done here is unbelievable." · see FAUST I page 17  






