


Aprill2, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 121 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Miller, Graham linked to theft 
stereo as the stolen items in question. I don't anticipate them representingPolice recover 

The television, a 26" Maganavox as list­Notre Dame." 
ed on the warrant, was confiscated from Holtz and Miller were slated to meetstolen property at the apartment. yesterday but details of the meeting Several student sources confirmed were unknown. Neither Graham nor
alleged residence that Miller and Graham have resided for Miller were available for comment. 
several months at the apartment the Rakow said no charges had been filed By GEORGE DOHRMANN police searched. against the two players and could not Spons Editor Miller and Graham, both juniors, were comment on what action would be taken Mike Miller Tracy Graham kicked off the Irish football team by in the next few days. 
Football players Mike Miller and Tracy coach Lou Holtz on Saturday. Holtz did Even if the players are not connected Graham have been linked to a search LaSalle Ave. not specify the reasons behind the dis­to the stolen property. they are already warrant served by Notre Dame security The warrant was filed after undis­missal of the two players but indicated in violation of University policy if they at an otT-campus apartment last Friday. closed sources linked one of the apart­the seriousness of the situation. did reside at The Pointe. Notre Dame 
The warrant was filed through Judge ments with reports of stolen property on "I do not anticipate Michael Miller or forbids scholarship athletes from main­William Albright of Portage Township, the Notre Dame campus, said University Tracy Graham being with us," Holtz taining otT-campus residences. concerning apartment No. 332 of The Director of Security Rex Rakow. said, following last Saturday's scrim­Pointe of St. Joseph Apartments, 307 E. The warrant specifies a television and mage. "I don't want to say anything else. see PLAYERS I page 4 
Law Review against gay rights legislation 
By JASON WILLIAMS behavior good (i.e. protected) Associate News Editor and religiously motivated discrimination evil (i.e. prohib­
An article in the latest issue ited)." of the "Notre Dame Law Duncan justified this by say­Review" takes a strong stance ing homosexual rights should against mandating gay rights not be considered on the same legislation, justified by compar­level as existing minority rights ing the plight of homosexuals to legislation. other minority groups with "When proponents of homo­established civil rights laws. sexual rights legislation argue 
The article, written by that they are seeking nothing Richard Duncan, the Sherman more than the same civil rights Welpton, Jr., Professor of Law, as anyone else has. they are University of Nebraska College wrong for two reasons," of Law, said that legislating gay Duncan said. rights will inevitably discrimi­"The first reason is that ho­nate against the church. mosexuals currently have the 
"When a legislature acts to same rights as everyone else, protect homosexual behavior 'the right to be protected under anti-discrimination laws, against discrimination on the it elevates homosexual prac­basis of their race, gender, re­tices to the status of protected ligion and other protected cate­activities while ... branding gories.'" many mainstream religious Secondly, homosexuality is a institutions and individuals as behavior which should not take
The ObserverfT.J. Harris 
outlaws engaged in antisocial precedence in having anti-dis­
Congratulations! 
and immoral behavior," he crimination laws concerning An Ike Turner imposter surprises junior Sandra Avila with congratulatory balloon at last night's Student 
said. "Symbolically, gay rights Senate meeting. Avila was recently appointed the Senate's Club Council Coordinator. 
legislation declares homosexual see REVIEW/ page 4 


Catholic Church is inclusive, according to panel 
By KAREN DUBAY understand Church as a daily News Writer way of living," she said. 
"If Church could be aware, 
The need for inclusively in the we would all feel included all of Church was the theme of last the time," Redis said. night's panel discussion in the Kathleen McBride offered the Hesburgh Library Lounge. perspective of a non-Catholic at 
"The Church is the followers Notre Dame. "Church is, in the of Jesus united by prayer, broadest sense, all of God's cre­creed, and action," said Tom ation," she said. "It is through McDermott, CSC. "It is a group this that I am a member and I of people essentially on a mis­am included." sion who feel that they have a McBride reflected on her gift to share. They are blessed dilemma freshmen year. "I was by revelation rooted in a love of concerned about how I fit in God, dignity of all people, and here at Notre Dame," she said. unity of people." "I felt excluded during commu­
McDermott, director of spe­nion. The Eucharist is impor­cial projects at Campus tant to me and my faith-life. At Ministry, was part of the panel the base of it all, at the main discussion titled, "Women and place of the table. I was exclud­Men Speak Out On What It ed. It was very painful to me." Means To Be lnclusive ... To Be "The sacrament does not Church." mean anything unless we live 
Patrick Birge, a 1992 gradu­it," she said. "At the table we ate of Notre Dame and former need to be most aware of peo­Holy Cross seminarian, said, ple who are different," she said. "An inclusive Church is com­Lakeza Ball. a resident assis­
alized and excluded," he said. inclusive ministry. of my sexuality. Being a les­
mitted to actions, not words." tant in Pangborn, said, "To be
Notre Dame seniors Redis highlighted her transi­bian never forced me to ques­
he said. "It forces us to remind inclusive, to be Church is to
Courtenay Redis, Kathleen tion from the Catholic to Baptist tion my faith. I did, however,
ourselves and each other of have compassion, to accept oth­
McBride, and Lakeza Ball all of­to Presbyterian churches before feel I had to justify it to other
compassion. Compassion is the ers, to be aware, and to rec­
fered personal insights and ex­attending Notre Dame. people. Since coming out on
only way to reverse the practice ognize that God did not teach
periences to illustrate their un­"When I came to Notre campus, I have felt very includ­
of exclusivity. It allows us to 
derstanding of the Church and Dame, I came to my own terms ed. I have finally come to
embrace those who are margin-see CHURCH I page 4 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, April12, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Gone are e days of the good guys 
I read a article by a 



Eric Ruethling 
Photographer 

Team of international observers tours embattled Hebron 
HEBRON, Occupied West Bank International observers made their 
Israel update 
• A 17 -member advance team of international observers cut short
first visit to Hebron today in a step 
toward calming the city where 30 
visit in Hebron due to violence. 
Palestinians were killed while praying 
• Three Palestinians were 
wounded by rubber bullets shot by Israeli soldiers. 
at a mosque. 

But the 17 -member advance team cut 
•About 20 Palestinian doctors 
short its visit when the army fired tear 
protested alter they were not 
allowed to enter Jerusalem from 
gas on protesters. 

the West Bank.
Three Palestinians were wounded by rubber bullets after soldiers clashed with about 300 marchers who carried signs and chanted slogans demanding the removal of Jewish settlers from the city. 
The protesters tried to enter and pray at the mosque where the massacre occurred Feb. 25, but were turned back by soldiers. 
The first of a force of 160 observers will arrive next week, Hebron Mayor Mustafa Natche said today. 
"They will not be armed, but they will help to create an atmosphere of security in the town" by trying to break up clashes between Palestinians and Israeli troops or Jewish settlers, he said. 
The PLO demanded some form of pro­tection for Palestinian residents in Hebron after a Jewish settler opened fire on worshipers at the Tomb of the Patriarchs, holy to both Muslims and Jews. Israel agreed to allow the 
Turner gets award -and last word 
NEW YORK 
When Ted Turner's new cable chan­nel signs on this week, it won't reach record numbers. Indeed, many cable systems don't even have room to carry the new service. But Turner isn't wor­ried. "It's like an expansion team," he said of Turner Classic Movies. "We start small and build from there." Thursday's launch marks Turner's 

sixth network. He exuded his usual confidence at a press conference Monday, before receiving an award from the non-profit Center for Communication, which stages sem­inars on media issues for college students. At the annual award luncheon, which drew top news and advertising figures, as well as the honoree's wife, Jane Fonda, cable giant John C. Malone spoke in tribute of the communica­tions maverick. "If he's not a prophet," Malone said of Turner, "he's the closest thing thereto I know in our industry." 
Waste landfill must fund cleanup 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
Two owner-operators of a hazardous waste landfill ordered closed in 1989 will have to turn over $300,000 in assets to the federal government and pay for the land­fill's cleanup, according to a settlement reached in the 
U.S. District Court in South Bend. The federal court ordered James A. Wilkins of Culver and Stephen W. Shambaugh of Wabash to close the Four County Landfill in March 1989 and fined the owners $2.8 million after finding numerous legal violations and health dangers. The judge also ordered a supervised cleanup of the facil­ity, which did not have liners and other required equip­ment. Wilkins and Shambaugh and their companies, Environmental Waste Control Inc. and West Holdings, then filed for bankruptcy. 
INDIANA Weather 
Tuesday, April12 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
' ' ''' 
OHIO 
ILL. 

KY. 
~-~,~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 
Showers T-stonns Rain Flurries Snow lcs Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 01994Accu-Weather,lnc. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 12. 
FRONTS: 
............... ...a.....a... .....-ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
Emerald Isles host exotic species 
GALAPAGOS ISLANDS 
Like Charles Darwin busy filling 18 schoolboy note­books with his observations, it seemed natural to keep a journal of the bizarre mix of polar and tropical wildlife encountered on these remarkable islands. Just down from Cambridge, England, young Darwin reached the Galapagos Islands in the fall of 1835 as the unpaid natu­ralist abroad HMS Beagle, a 10-gun brigantine circling the globe on a mapping expedition. Coming ashore on San Cristobal, now the capital of the islands, he met a pair of tortoises, each weighing about 700 pounds. One munching on a succulent cactus pod stared at him "and slowly stalked away." The other "gave a deep hiss and drew in its head." That was more than a century and a half ago, but a tourist splashing ashore from a rubber dinghy these days jots down almost the same impres­sions. The tortoise hissing at us might have been the same leathery looking chap that greeted Darwin. After all, they live for 250 years. 
Jury duty stress alerts courts 
NEW YORK 
For one elderly juror, it was the picture of the murder victim with her throat slashed and a large footprint on her chest. She dreamed about it long after the verdict. For another juror, it was the videotape of police digging up a murder victim's head from a garden. For weeks, when she looked out her kitchen window at her own gar­den, her mind's eye saw that head. And after the trial of a man who raped and murdered a young woman in her home, a 41-year-old female juror told researchers, ''I'm paranoid. I can't shake it. I went to the Smoky Mountains and twice I ran into a fellow who looked like him. I flipped out. I got hysterical, shook and just ran.... I dreamed he broke into my apartment on several occa­sions. Same dream over and over. 
observers to spend three months in Hebron. 

Israel today allowed Palestinians to circulate freely in the center of town for six hours, during the first normal business day downtown since the massacre. The mosque, also downtown, was still closed. 
The advance team -mostly diplomats from Norway, Denmark and Italy, all countries expected to contribute observers -was briefed by Palestinian officials and Israeli military com­manders. 
"The military commander of Hebron has opened the city and this is a good sign," Natche said after meeting with the delegation. "We consider it a gift of the guests who came to Hebron." 
The delegation members said they requested the city be open during their visit. 
"We feel the mandate of the group is to fur­ther the restoration of normalcy," said Knut Vollboak, the Norwegian head of the advance team. "We hope this is a good omen for the work we are going to do." 
Islamic militants, especially strong in Hebron, are opposed to the foreign force. 
"The whole thing is designed to circumvent the Palestinian demand for evacuating the trig­ger-happy Jewish settlers from downtown Hebron," said Khaled Suleiman, a supporter of the Islamic Resistance Movement, or Hamas. The observers "will not be able to protect us. I will be surprised if they can protect them­selves." 
Pressure 
H L m &'SI rn~ 0 IZ1 § 1l eJ. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta  86  62  Denver  38  38  New York  68  42  
Baltimore  62  44  Houston  78  73  Philadelphia  67  46  
Boston  60  44  Los Angeles  84  55  Phoenix  79  50  
Chicago  49  42  Miami  79  73  St. Louis  50  47  
Columbus  48  36  Minneapolis  61  29  San Francisco  79  49  
Dallas  73  62  New Orleans  84  71  Seattle  62  43  

Tuesday, Aprill2, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 
Ukraine seeks own identity Computers help with 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 
Russia and the Ukraine per­ceive their historical and politi­cal relationship very differently, according to Roman Szporluk, professor of history at Harvard University. 
Generally. the Ukrainian­Russian relationship is a model example of post-Soviet diplo­macy. However the recent clashes in the Ukraine over the Black Sea Fleet may be a signal of the problems to come. 
Although Russia tends to think that Ukrainian situations qualify as internal Russian con­cerns, the Ukraine views itself as a independent nation. Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union three years ago, the na­ture of Russia's politics has been largely transitional. 
In moving away from a dicta­torial empire with a command economy to a democratic Russian state and a free mar­ket, the question of Russia's re­lationship with the Ukraine has received much attention. 
"The treatment of the Ukraine in Russian self-defini­tion and self-redefinition is one of the central questions in con­temporary Russia," said Szporluk. "Russians have al­ways known that France, Germany ... and Japan are for­eign countries. But most Russians have always tended to think that Ukrainians... are Russians. The Ukrainians, though, think that they are a foreign country." 
Some Russians would rather ignore the substantial influence that Poland and Lithuania have had on the Ukraine. The Catholic Church, the nobility. and other Polish institutions greatly affected the Ukrainian people and their culture. 
"Some parts of what is now the Ukraine was Polish in the mid-fourteenth century, and they stopped being Poles in the mid-twentieth century. (Russians treat) these centuries as a time-out, an anti-history," said Szporluk. 
In addition, the two states treat their borders and neigh­bors differently. Unlike Russia, the Ukraine has always had a special relationship with Poland. "Russians are missing the fact that the mental ge­ographies (of Ukrainians) are different," said Szporluk. 
The Russian-Ukrainian rela­





FREE CONCERT! 
.. . Mango jam 
IS brmgmg their funky reggae sound to St. Mary's 
Wed A[>ril 13, 6:00-8:00 p.m. at SMC Library Green 
Sponsored by RHA 



IT'S BACK! 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 

~ 
Free Delivery • 271--1177 
tionship is strained in other ar­eas because the 1991 coopera­tion between Russia, Ukraine and Belorussia has been largely forgotten by Russia, according to Szporluk. Between December 8, 1991 and December 21, 1991, these three regions were united in an attempt to create a tripartite Slavic state. Minsk was proposed as the capital, and all of the regions would have been equal. However, Russia decided against this union because it would have compromised its other regional connections, especially central Asia. 
The Commonwealth of Independent States was later established. In order to protect its autonomy, the Ukraine de­clared its independence. Since then, the Ukraine has been fac­ing immense historical and political problems as it has tried to sustain its statehood. 
Millions of Russians live in the Ukraine, and in recent months they have increasingly voiced concerns about their ethnic rights. This current con­flict concerning the Ukraine and ethnic Russians centers on the debate between the estab­lishment of territorial entities or ethnic entities, according to Szporluk. 
Szporluk's lecture was the fifth in a series of lectures sponsored by the department of History and the Nanovic Center for European Studies. 

stage, costume design 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Three Notre Dame faculty members from the Communications and Theater Department who use computers to as'>ist with set, costume, and lighting designs for University stage productions will discuss their work in a panel presenta­tion at the U.S. Institute for Theater Technology's annual conference April 13 in Nashville, Tenn. 
The digitized computer board helps associate professional specialist Richard Donnelly cre­ate costumes. 
"As a costume designer I work with free hand form rather than lines and angles," he said. 
Bruce Auerbach, associate professional specialist, is teach­ing a course, titled "Computer­Aided Design for the Stage," and has used a computer to de­sign sets for several Notre Dame productions. 
Auerbach is also developing an interactive computer model that will allow designers and directors to view a fully colored and illuminated three-dimen­sional representation of a set. 
Assistant professional 

specialist Kevin Dreyer is using software to help students cre­ate a three-dimensional color visualization of a lighting design. 
The three faculty members took advantage of the program "Jump Start," which provides money for faculty and graduate students interested in incorpo­rating educational technology into their teaching. 
"In the arts, it's difficult to get funding for computer work. but Notre Dame has been very supportive," Donnelly said. 
The work with the computers has really progressed in the last year, he said. 
The convention will allow people from other schools to see what the Communications and Theater Department has been doing, he said. 
"I don't know anyone who's been doing the complete draw­ings I've been doing," Donnelly said. "It allows us to be explor­ers in the field where 
we can utilize the technolo­gy." 
The computer-aided designs will be on display in the com­munications and theater de­partment's final production of the season, "You Can't Take It With You," April 13-17 at Washington Hall. 
• It is spoken by over 180 million people in the Middle East and North Africa 
• 
It is the sacred language of more than one billion Moslems worldwide. 

• 
It is the language of a region of increasing international importance 


• It is the ancestral language of over 5 million Americans 
FALL 1994 Beginning Arabic MWF 10:10-11:00 # COSA 101 01 Or Arabic Literature in Translation MWF 12:15-1:05 #COST 405 01 
Have questions or need information? Call 631-6276 Department of Classical & Oriental Languages University of Notre Dame 

Friday, April 15th, at 7:00 p.m. in Corpus Christi Parish Hall off Portage Avenue 
-sit-down Polish wedding feast dinner­-hours of dancing­-cash bar­-two great bands, Sabor Latino & CRIPE Street­-only $12°0 a person­-tickets on sale at LaFortune­
~-~ ~----~-----------------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, April 12, 1994 



Players 
continued from page 1 
On February 24, Notre Dame filed violations of the NCAA's extra-benefits prov1swn, Article 16 of the NCAA manual. Former players Jeff Burris and Bryant Young were living rent­free at an off-campus resi­dence. The NCAA forbids ath­letes from receiving benefits unavailable to all students. 
This is not the first time Miller's standing has been in question at Notre Dame. During his freshman year in 1991, he left the University shortly after arriving on cam-
Church 
continued from page 1 
separation," she said. "We need to love and accept one an­other." 
"To be Church is to come to­gether to serve and praise God; to be inclusive is to come to­gether and share your differ­ences," she added. 
Another panelist, Hank Mascotte gave his viewpoint as a former clergy member who left the priesthood. ''I'm an artist, but for thirty years I was a Roman Catholic priest," he said. "One year ago I left the active ministry of the Church and was married." 
After he left his position at St. Jude's parish, he received 
CORRECTION 
An article in yesterday's Observer misstated the source of funds to be allocated for a student government concert fund. They are to be allocated from the Student Senate Budget Committee. 
pus. He returned home to Texas and was rumored to be headed to the University of Houston. 
In the spring, Miller re-en­rolled at Notre Dame and has been a fixture on the Irish spe­cial teams and as a third re­ceiver ever since. He was slat­ed to start opposite sophomore Derrick Mayes in 1994. 
Graham has seen limited playing time with the Irish on special teams and as a reserve in the secondary. 
Holtz did not have much to say on how the loss of the two players would affect the foot­ball team. 
"Takes two names off the depth chart," he said. 
"much encouragement and support from his previous parishioners. I have a real sense of inclusivity," he said. 
"I am sad I am not allowed to be married and to be a Church minister. Hopefully, my leav­ing will be seen as a statement. I am hopeful in the future that the official Church will change on this issue," he said. 




Review 
continued from page 1 
employment and housing matters. 
"Since political expression and association activities are recognized as fundamental rights by the First Amendment, (the activitier;~ typically are not protected against private dis­crimination; the argument for 'equal treatment' for homosex­ual behavior would appear to cut the other way," Duncan said. 
Duncan added that throwing homosexuality into the anti-dis­crimination law arena is more controversial than race or gen­der discrimination law because homosexuality raises moral questions. 
Economically, the article ar­gues that homosexuals as a group are not fiscally deprived. 
"It seems clear that homo­sexuals are not impoverished and unempowered as were racial minorities in the early 1960s," he said. 
Look Who's 21! 
Happy Birthday Aoife 
Love Mom, Dad, Kieran Brian and Conor 
SECURITY BEAT 
d~~fln the C01 .pa no Injuries fflported. 

AT., APRIL 9 3:27p.m. Anoflcampusstudent A Papa John's employee ... transported to St. Joseph Medical ol t~ pizzas b~ tw9 tb for tre~lineryt pf a sports Injury, 
· nea(~ltlnner Hall> ·· !! ,.7':0$ P·!ri:'[L An of! ~iripU$ 

2:50 p;m. Avlsi!Orwas transported to ' ported the theft of his Pike from the St. Jo$&ph Medical .. treatment . side oftt1e Hesburgh Library. ,. 


The Thomas J. White Center on Law & Government 
presents: 

Margaret Griffey Assistant Attorney General of the State of Texas 
Limitations on Federal Habeas Review of Death Penalty Cases: Their Origin and Application 
Wednesday, April 13th 
Noon 

in the Law School Courtroom 
You could rent any truck. 
Then again, you could've gone to any school. 

There are thousands of colleges out there. Fortunately, you made a good choice. Now make the right choice when you leave. Rent a truck from Ryder. 
Ryder makes your move easy. With a convenient toll-free reservation number. Clean, reliable vehicles that are easy to load and drive. Fast processing to speed up check­in and check-out. And a 24-hour Roadside Assistance Line for help along the way. 
So put your education to good use and calll-800-GO-RYDER (1-800-467-9337) 
or call your local Ryder dealerfor special student rates: 



51370 U.S. 33 North 2715 N. Bendix Dr. 1914 Miami 219-272-1669 219-277-3550 219-289-6721 

Tuesday, April 12, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 




C. Everett Koop, M.D., SC.D. 

u1988 E:ID•Y Award '~~la.aeru
Former Surgeon General under Reagan and Bush 
lfEJ)NES))AY, Al11UL 13TH

"U.S. Health Care. Where Do We Go From Here?" 
Thursday, April 14 7PM Stepan Center 
$3 Students, Faculty, and Staff $5 General Public 
ReceptiQn to follow in the Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
T1drsta Avalable (I theLaFortune /rio Desk 
Sponsored by: 

Student Government 

llllJM ·1~0 I..I..Olf 
llflorld's Greatest Sports Wriler"-GQ
Hey 





The FACULTY Series 

Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome





Sophomores! 
TIMELY TOPICS
Get involved with 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 

"ENDING WELFARE REFORM as we know it: Facts and Fantasy" 

A conversation with 
David Betson and Joan Aldous 
liesburgh Program Kenan Chair 
in Public Service in Sociology 
Tuesday, April12 7:30p.m. at The Center for Social Concerns 
Applications for the JPW 
Sponsored by:
Executive CommiHee available at 
The Department ofTheolcgy The Center for Social Concerns The Office ofCampus Ministry

LaFortune Information Desk. 
--Light Refreshments will follow-­

Due by Wednesday, April 131 
Senate votes to defer Mango Jam to perform 

proposed boycott 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
News Writer 
Mango Jam, a five-piece "tropical rock" band out of Minneapolis will perform a free concert on the Saint Mary's library green on Wed., April 13 from 6 to 8 p.m., according to the Residence Hall Association (RHA) president Tricia Wallace, at last night's RHA meeting. 

The RHA-sponsored group, who has played in clubs throughout the Twin Cities area since their formation in 1989 and released its first record "Mango Jam" in 1993, concen­trate on bringing together their eclectic sounds of rock, funk, blues, reggae and jazz. 
The band brings together the Caribbean sounds played out by keyboardist Mark Aamot, percussionist Geoff Prettner, drummer Bret Erickson, bassist Jason Bush and guitarist Jon Herchert. 
"I used to be in a Grateful Dead cover band," Bush said, "so we do a few Dead covers and a lot of Allman Brothers covers" on the few occations when they play someone else's music, according to a 1992 arti­cle in the Des Moines Register. 

"We try to stay away from doing covers," Bush said. "We play an average of 20 to 25 songs in a night (from a reper­toire of more than 50 originals). On average, we play maybe two covers a night," according to Bush. 
Bush writes about 80% of the band's lyrics and composes a basic tune on the guitar, then the whole band arranges the song. 
He writes upbeat songs because he says that Mango Jam's music reflects its hopes for the world. 
"A lot of it is focussing on the positive belief that things can get better," Bush said. "It's a photograph of the world in the 90's." 
Band members agree, say­ing that their music is a fun alternative to the downcast, depressing songs that infiltrate 
today's market, according to a recent press release. 
"With grunge it's trendy to be angry," Aarmot says. "I think it's extremely worthwhile to be creative by putting smiles on people's faces." 
"RHA hopes to have a big turnout with both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame in full partici­pation for the funky reggae sound of Mango Jam," said Isabel Wagner, vice-president ofRHA. 
In other matters discussed at last night's meeting, 
•Wednesday 
is "Hard Rock Cafe Night" in the Saint Mary's dining hall and will feature a disk jockey until 6 p.m. 

•11" 
by 17" sesquicentenial overhead photos of Saint Mary's students in a "150" for­mation will be on sale for $3 in the dining hall within the next two weeks 

•There 
will be informational meetings for students interest­ed in running for 1994-95 Hall Council positions on April 13 at 9 p.m. and April14 at 7 p.m. 


By DAVE TYLER 
Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate voted last night to defer a vote on the pro­posed Observer advertising ban after concerns arose over the boycott's constitutionality. The likelihood of a negotiated solu­tion increased. 
STUDENT SENATE 
Student Government Chief of 
Staff Tyler Farmer told the sen­
ate last night that the mandato­
ry advertising boycott approved 
by the senate is not enforceable 
under the current constitution 
guidelines for undergraduates. 
"We do not have the power to 
set conditions on previously al­
located funds," Farmer said. 
"We can only suggest that each 
organization participate in such 
a boycott." 
Student Body President David 
Hungeling also raised the pos­. sibility of a settlement being reached through less con­
frontational means. " 
I'm very optimistic that this 
can be settled without a boy­
cott," he said. "I think all the sides concerned are very close to reaching an agreement." He did not say what kind of an agreement it would be, or when it may be announced. 
In light of this news, the Senate voted to delay action until next week's meeting, "...in the hopes that no action will be necessary," said Hungeling. 
The Senate also passed a res­olution to honor long time Chicago Cubs broadcaster Harry Caray with a special day at Notre Dame April 18. It will be declared "Harry Caray Day" on campus. Plans call for the Senate to honor Caray with an unspecified award. 
While Caray has not yet con­firmed his attendance, Farmer has high hopes that he will be there. 
"We've talked to his office and his secretary has expressed his fondness for the University," said Farmer. This marks Caray's fiftieth year in broadcasting. This August, the popular Chicago announcer will be inducted into the journalism wing of the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, NY. 

--~-~---~----~-~----~-~ 
...-~----------~---·-~ -~------~---------~---~-­
. 
page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday,Aprill2, 1994 
Clinton urges quick passage of crime bill 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK more punishment and more weeks ago, before the chamber Associated Press prevention," includes some of recessed for the spring break. Clinton's key proposals: thou­But Republicans accused WASHINGTON sands of additional police, a them of trying to prevent legit­
President Clinton on Monday provision sending third-time imate GOP amendments from urged Congress to make quick felons to prison for life, $3 bil­being debated. Rep. Charles work of the crime bill, warning lion for state prison expansion, Schumer, D-N.Y., chairman of that "frivolous" and "political" and $7 billion for prevention the Judiciary Committee's amendments would annoy an efforts. crime sub'committee, accused already anxious public. the GOP of trying to keep the 
"The American people have "We know we're all preach­Whitewater controversy in the waited long enough," he told a ing to the saved today," Clinton headlines by keeping the crime receptive audience of police of­told the officers. "Tomorrow bill out of them. ficers, including a dozen re­when the Congress comes back, The House Rules Committee cently hired through his com­there are many other things is expected on Tuesday to allow munity policing initiative. that will claim their attention. I a few more GOP amendments 
will ask them to think about to be considered, a congres­
"We don't need to waste their many other things. You must sional source said today. time with frivolous or political say, 'Pass the crime bill now."' amendments and delay," he The House is scheduled to de­"The time for politics and said to the standing-room-only bate the bill Wednesday and partisanship is over." said crowd at the Justice Thursday, with possible contin­Attorney General Janet Reno, Department. "We don't need to ued action next Monday and who spent last week promoting take months on a task that can Tuesday. the crime bill on a national be done in a couple of weeks." tour. "Everywhere I went, I 
The $15 billion House crime Some Democrats tried to push heard the same message, loud bill, containing "more police, the bill through the House three and clear: the people want 
Social security will be drained 
By JENNIFER DIXON mula for dividing payroll taxes Together, Medicare and Associated Press among the retirement and dis­Social Security account for ability trust funds. more than one-fourth of the WASHINGTON federal budget. They pump $1 
Barring changes, the aging of Health and Human Services billion a day into the U.S. econ­the baby boom generation will Secretary Donna Shalala ar­omy and support one in four exhaust Social Security's re­gued Monday that passage of households. 
tirement trust fund by the year health care reform would sig­2036, eight years sooner than nificantly improve the longer­In their report, the trustees was expected last year, a fed­term fiscal health of Medicare recommended that a panel of eral report said Monday. by controlling the growth in Social Security experts be 
spending. named to conduct an extensive 
The annual study also The prediction that Social review of the financing issues warned that Social Security's Security's retirement fund facing both the retirement and disability trust fund could go would be out of money eight disability trust funds. The broke in 1995, while Medicare years sooner than believed just Social Security Administration will be able to pay the hospital a year ago marked the biggest said members of such an advi­costs of the nation's elderly and departure from last year's re­sory council would be named action." 
Clinton's top priority is 100,000 additional police, but the House bill seeks only 50,000, authorizing $3.45 bil­lion over six years. 
The $22 billion Senate crime bill, passed last Jail, authorizes $8.9 billion for 100,000 officers over fivr years. The House is experted to agree to the Senate's numbers in a confer­ence with the Senate. 
Clinton wants the new officers to be involved with community policing -a throwback to the old days of officers walking beats and getting to know the people they serve -like the 12 at Monday's gathering from the Albany, Ga., Police Department. They were hired recently with $730,000 in federal funds. 
Community policing "permits the officers to form a partner­ship with law-abiding citizens," said Albany Police Lt. Earnest Williams. 
"Most detest the criminals who have invaded their lives, and are eager to help," Williams said. "When you put a community police officer on the street, you lay the groundwork for pro-active policing, just not reactive." 
Other substantial differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill include parts of the three-strikes provision, which is stricter in the Senate bill; the method for funding state prison expansion; an as­sault-style weapons ban and federalization of most gun-re­lated crimes in the Senate bill; and rules on death row in­mates' rights to habeas corpus appeals in the House bill. 
Both versions would impose the death penalty on dozens of crimes, including carjacking. 


Congratulations Fr. Joe Carey, CSC Rector of Dillon Hall 25 Years a Priest 
disabled workers another seven years.  for  only  port.  later this year."The nation's domestic social  •I  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •.1  
Congress. however, is ex­pected to shore up the disability trust fund, which pays monthly cash benefits to 5.4 million ill  The forecasts, by the trustees of the Social Security and Medicare trust funds, also paint a somber picture of the finan­cial health of three of the fed­ policy agenda is focused cur­rently on two major ·objectives: 1 reform· of our health care and I welfare systems," wrote two of the trustees, Stanford G. Ross 1  1 I1  
and injured workers and their families, by changing the for­ eral government's largest social programs.  and David M. Walker, who rep­resent the public.  I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
A Panel Discussion & Open Forum on  I I  I I  
I  I  
RACE  I I I  I I I  
RELATIONS  I I I I  I I I I  
AT NOTRE DAME  I I I  I I I  
A student panel will share their views; we invite you to share yours.  I III I  It's b1g. r_" ~:esh and 1t's only a buck srxty-n1nel Subway,.s 6" Cold C.. r Combo'S filled w1th meat. cheese and your cho1ce ::A free f1x1n·s, on bread baked fresh rrght rn the store Come ::: ,. <or a f1ll-up todayl Good at all ~jij :II)Jj\'i Good at all  I 1I I  
I1  South Bend Locations  /}'/t,,~'l~l 1 .,7 ¥VIii(/  South Bend Locations  II  


Wednesday, April 13th 7:30pm in the I 11 I
SAVE $1.00 ON BUY A FOOTLONG Grace Hall Pit I ANY REGULAR : &MEDIUM DRINK, I = FOOTLONG!!! :GET A2ND FOR 99¢ : Refreshments will be served. I ~"liFlitU!Vi I €11) ~I!:If.:ri I 
I Not good with any other dl$coonl 01 1 Not good with any other dlsoount 01 I oftec-. One coupon per custO!llef, 1 oftec· One coupon per custilmefI per visit Expires May 10, 1994 1 pe; >7.slt Expire$ May 10, 1994 ' 1 




BUSINESS 
Tuesday, Aprill2, 1994 page 7 
BUSINESS FORUM 
Networking techniques and tools 
Shannon helps in career search 
By LYNN BAUWENS Dame/Saint Mary's Entrepreneurs Shannon's accomplishments have Business Writer Club. not gone unnoticed locally or nation­Professor Shannon taught ally. In March 1993, Shannon was One has to get up early in the "Entrepreneurship for Women," the invited by President Clinton to be a morning to keep up with Saint only college credit course of that guest at the White House to repre­Mary's Professor William Shannon, description in any United States col­sent the small business viewpoint. but tracking down the chairman and lege or university. He also coordi­Indiana Congressman Tim Roemer co-founder of Hacienda and national­nates the Saint Mary's International appointed Shannon to serve as a ly recognized business executive is Business curriculum and heads the delegate to the 1994 White House 
A growing number of uni---------1 well worth the effort. internship program for seniors in the Conference on Small Business. business department. 
versity students have recently 
The tenured member of the busi­Shannon advises students to seek
given new meaning to the 
ness faculty enjoys helping students Shannon's expertise includes inter­out professors in their areas of inter­expression "getting carded." 
to make contacts and to gain experi­national business, small business and est. They can provide invaluableMany collegians have taken ence in the business world. entrepreneurship and marketing. A information and advice. In today'sthe novel step of printing their 
"Opportunities start with your own few of his many accomplishments in business world where who oneown business cards, according professors," explained Shannon. these areas include serving as the knows is almost as important whatto an article in the University "Students need to tap into faculty North American Corporate Vice­one knows, professors can also pro­of Michigan's student newspa­resources. Faculty have a wealth of President of International Firms vide contacts and letters of introduc­per, The Michigan Daily. The 
information to share." Based in Europe and a board mem­tion.
personal business card, the William Shannon ber of the National Small Businessarticle notes, is becoming an 
Besides a full schedule with his Council. Throughout his years of work,important tool for effective communication as 
work at Hacienda and teaching Shannon has accumulated three 
more people are getting used to the idea of of classes in marketing and in­Currently. Shannon is currently the rolodexes full of names of peopleyoung adults with professionally appearing per­ternational business, Shannon also National Vice-President for who he has met from all areas ofsonal business cards. 
serves as a faculty advisor for the Entrepreneurship Development of business. While he maintains a busyUsing a business card can be an effective net­Notre Dame Council for International the United States Association for schedule, he emphasizes that hisworking technique for an individual interested in Business Development and the Notre Small Business and Entrepreneurs. door is always open to students. 
developing new business contacts and building professional rapport. Most business and profes­sional people have a business card, but many individuals have not learned to utilize their busi­
Business responsibilities 
ness card to effectively create opportunities. An easy habit to acquire is the simple and effective action of offering your business card to 

addressed at conference 
business and professional individuals you've just met and asking them for their card in return. If 
By JOHN LUCAS grow fast, dominate their marketsthey don't have their card with them, offer them 
Managing Editor and then congratulate themselves." 
an additional one of yours and ask them to jot 
While the downsizing and re­down their name and where they can be 
The recent downfall of several of structuring of several of the "good"reached. 
the most noted socially responsible companies is disturbing, ethics andBy offering your business card to an individual, corporations contributes to a sense responsibility have not been forgot­you make it much easier for them to remember 
of uneasiness and insecurity in ten entirely, he said. 
to your name and affiliation (such as your 
American business, according to con­"Although companies have beenschool). Most people also respond positively to tributing editor and columnist for forced to act in ways that wereanother question you might ask of them: "Do you Newsweek Magazine, Robert unimaginable 15 years ago, corpo­mind if I note on your card today's date and 
Samuelson. rate executives haven't become ruth­
where we met so I can remember where we 
Companies like IBM, Delta, and less S.O.B.'s," he said. 
talked?" They will be pleased, at least subcon­Sears were "good" companies notsciously, that you thought to ask and make that only because they dominated their "Employees are companies mostnotation. 
respective markets, but because they important asset-if these employeesIn suggesting the swap, you get the other per­took care of their workers and social become demoralized, companies areson's card and this simple act will enable you to 
responsibilities, he said. going to go down the tubes." 
learn and remember their name easier. There When IBM, a company that prided Despite the fact that many moreare many professional situations where individu­itself on having never laid off jobs are in jeopardy today than 15als are not wearing name badges and often intro­employees, was forced to undergo years ago, career jobs are notductions are hastily done, if they are done at all. 
restructuring, the entire corporate extinct, Samuelson said. 
Thus, offering to exchange business cards bene­world took notice, said Samuelson, "It's not a complete jungle outfits both you and the person you have just met. 
who spoke as part of the first day of there," he said. 
A few tips. Make sure your name is printed the conference on Corporate Social In order to rebound from the confi­large enough on your business card so it can be Responsibility in a Global dence lost by the failures of IBM and
easily read when a recipient glances at it. 
Environment. others, it may be important forInclude a fax number. For those without access 
American business to find a new
to a fax machine of their own, Kinko's on South 
The recent failings of these "good" identity, Samuelson said, although he Bend Avenue offers a fax receiving service, for a companies have implications in the hesitated in condemning the outlookmodest fee. At Saint Mary's, the telecommunica­
structure of the American welfare for the present. 
tions department will call when they receive a 
state, he said. "Do we need a new vision?"
fax for you. For an executive-quality feel, consid­
While the government provides Samuelson asked. "It would be greater doing your business card with raised printing, Social Security and Medicare for the to have one -but I believe thatwhich only costs a few extra dollars. 
old, private sector companies pro­there's only one thing worse than anYou can make it easy for people at a seminar 
vided job security, health insurance old vision is a bad vision."
or similar meeting to remember you by acquiring and pension funds for workers. 
the habit of wearing a professionally appearing Now, the gaps between what gov­Questioning the reality of a "chal­permanent style name badge. Your name badge ernment and business are providing lenge" for social responsibility at theenables a person to be more comfortable in for are beginning to grow increas­corporate level, keynote speakerengaging you in conversation as they can conve­
ingly larger. Robert Galvin of Motorola explainedniently see and remember you name. Including 
"Now, there will be more calls for there should be no difficulty making an organization affiliation or your home city also 
government to close the gap," he decisions to "do the right thing." 
makes "breaking the ice" much easier. 
said. "Without a doubt, the health "At Motorola, we just plain prac­A few tips. On your badge, your name should care debate is a product of this ticed the Golden Rule," said Galvin,be large enough to read from several feet. Wear 
development." who serves as Chairman of theyour name badge on your right shoulder so that 
Although "good" companies have Executive Committee. "It isn't thata person can easily focus on your name and face been thriving in American business hard. Best results are often achievedwhile shaking hands. A sharp looking badge gen­for the last 40 years, only recently, by adhering to the highest princi­erally costs less that five dollars and is well did time begin to catch up with these ples,"worth the investment. 
companies. If a corporation is able to keep
William Shannon is the International Business 
"There are built-in constraints for both a respect for people and a cer­
Curriculum Coordinator and a Professor of Busi­
how good, good management can be tain sense of integrity as part of its 
ness Administration and Economics at Saint 
over the long haul." he said. overlying principles, social responsi­
Mary's College. 

Although competitors have been bility should never be an issue, but a able to imitate facets of success of part of its values, said Galvin, an
MARKET ROUNDUP 
the "good" corporation, complacen­alumnus and former member of the r-------------------~ cy, bad management and excess are Notre Dame Board of Trustees. As much as all companies want to 
~~ ' 3~~~ ~3 '-=~:.C.~-'-"'~'-"-:~~::..::~·=·~'--'-------'----'-~L__---' ~!~;~~fr:re:;onsibly in the cases of "do the right thing" when it comes to
5 

Samuelson cited the case of matters of social and ethical respon­sibility, they must not forget the bot­tom line or else they open themselves to being surpassed by competitors.



~~ :~h~i,~£ I ·r~:s~soo~ ~~e}~~~~J2!~~~~!!~:~o~~~~~~~~
~. -~-~--~~ . mon among American corporations "Put the customer first," Galvin 
of the period, he said. said. "Attack the paramount thing, 1/1/94 2/1/94 3/1/94 4/1/94 5/1/94 "Success creates the seeds of and everything else will fall into future failure," he said. "Companies order.'' 

---~-~---------------~----------~.---~-~---:----. 



VIEWPOINT 
page8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Eiizabech Regan Conuoller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Eclitor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and nor necessarily [hose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and [0 all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Environmental destruction 
Social implications must be considered 
Dear Editor: 
When many people think about damage to the environ­ment, images of landfills, oil­covered animals and vanishing rainforests come to mind. Sometimes we fail to see that environmental destruction of­ten carries major social impli­cations with it. When we trash the earth, we jeopardize the 
'When we trash the 
earth, we jeopar­dize the safety of further generations.' 
safety of further generations, and we also harm certain com­munities of the present. 
Unfortunately, these com­munities generally consist only of poor, uneducated people who have very little opportunity to take a stand against the pol­luter who is destroying the area they live in. 
An example of such a situa­tion involves the people of Matamoros, Mexico, who live in the vicinity of a Stepan Chemical plant. F. Quinn Stepan, the president and CEO of Stepan Chemical Company, and the Stepan family have generously donated millions of dollars to Notre Dame. Paul Stepan is Mayor Daly's chief campaign manager in Chicago, and his wife Anne is a member of the Illinois state legislature. The family is well-known in Chicago for its heavy involve­ment in the area of social con­cerns. 
However, in the past, Stepan chemical company has not re­flected the same social interest in dealing with the people of Matamoros, Mexico. Over the past few years, a group called the Coalition for Justice in the Maquiladoras has been fighting Stepan Chemical in an attempt to better the lives of the people in Matamoros. 
The Coalition for Justice in the Maquiladoras is a Christian organization which works for fair treatment of Mexican workers and for enforcement of environmental and safety regu­lations on both sides of the Rio Grande River. Working closely with the coalition, I have obtained a limitless supply of information regarding Stepan's destructive activities across the border. 
In 1992, an EPA certified lab­oratory found that Stepan was discharging the chemical Xylene into an open canal be­hind their facility at levels 53,000 times the U.S.. permis­sible level! This chemical has been suspected to be linked to the neural tube defect called anecephaly, which causes a baby to be born without a brain. 
Also, other soil samples taken outside the plant less than 100 yards from a cluster of houses uncovered a moist, black sub­stance mixed into the dirt which had an overwhelming stench similar to hair spray. Additionally, video footage showed puddles near the plant full of bright green water and other chemicals. 
The community of Matamoros has confronted Stepan about such conditions, and asked for a site assessment and clean-up. However, Stepan has consis-
THe HtARJN6S fJR& ABOIJT AN /NV&5TMENTMA~ !13 
YeARS A~, ANIJIA/H&TH&R 
7HU:tll'fl[N3 IJIIJANY-~ 
7HIN6 IMPROP/3R WH/1£ 
/.05/NG MON&YON IT. 
tently avoided the issue and refused to work with the com­munity to improve the situa.­tion. 
On June 7, 1993, Charles Riley, Stepan's Vice President of Administration and Regulatory Affairs informed the coalition for Justice that "Our legal counsel has advised that a cooperative effort with the Coalition on a plant-site investi­gation... would not be in our best interest. Stepan therefore no longer seeks an agreement which would involve the Coalition's environmental con­sultant to review the site inves­tigation at the Matamoros plant." 
I am thoroughly appalled at Stepan's disregard for the en­vironment and humanity, and I wonder why Stepan will not co­operate in an assessment and clean-up of the plant. Perhaps 
' perhaps they are 
frightened to see just how much destruc­tion they have brought upon the people and the earth.' 
they are frightened to see just how much destruction they have brought upon the people and the earth. 
May we take the time during Earth Week to reflect on such destruction, but more impor­tantly, let us become committed to stopping it. 
JUSTIN DEL VECCHIO 
Students for Environmental Action 
Tuesday, Aprill2, 1994 


Effectiveness of Honor Code questioned, again 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in support of Ann Blum's inside column "Do ethics mean anything to Domers today?" After two years of attending classes where cheating runs as ram­pant as the squirrels, I, too, have come to question the va­lidity of the Notre Dame Honor Code. 
Not to rehash and old ques­tion, but who really believes that the Honor Code ac­complishes its goal to detain students from cheating on their work? As freshman, we were all initiated into the expecta­tions of the University regard­ing honesty and told of the vast repercussions of dishonesty, but no one, except a select few, have seen any consequences. A meager ad in the paper at­tempting the ever-effective "scare tactic" merited more of a laugh that fright for readers. 
The Honor Code doesn't work. Some teachers fruit­lessly try to enforce it by requiring a signature on a piece of paper before an exam is given, but this tactic is just as easily bypassed. I've witnessed many students effortlessly sign the paper, turn it in, receive the test, and then without a second thought abandon any obligation they felt towards the now obliv­ious promise to ethics. Signing your name to a piece of paper doesn't mean that you are going to remember your pledge two minutes later when the pressure of passing and suc­ceeding sets in. If you are going to cheat, you are going to cheat-it's that simple. 
The majority of students that opt for honesty do it not out of fear of retaliation by the University, but out of a sense of loyalty to their own set of val­ues. I don't cheat because I was taught as a child that if I had to cheat to get ahead, I didn't deserve the reward. I feel no obligation whatsoever to the mandate attempting to "scare" me into morality, but rather to my own devotion to personal integrity. 
I know that this is an extremely naive view of the world (and sadly, of this cam­pus) filled with unethical behavior where the "Life is un­fair, face it" slogan reverber­ates. I also realize, as Blum did, that his outlook often puts me at a disadvantage in the classroom, but as she did, I've rationalized that it's a stance I must take to uphold my per­sonal sense of right and wrong. 
So what is the solution? There is none. If young adults haven't learned that lying and cheating is wrong by the time they reach college, then their is no hope of changing their di­rection once they get here; you can't teach morals and values to a student dead set on getting ahead in life without them. In this way, Notre Dame Honor Code becomes even more naive than me. 
My mother always had a say­ing, "It all comes out in the wash." I've come to believe this, but right now, there is too much dirty laundry on campus. 
LARA RICHARDS 
Sophomore 
Farley Hall 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Iought, therefore I can." 
-Immanuel Kant attributed 
---------------~--------------------­



ACC~NT 
Tuesday, Aprill2, 1994 page 9 
Unique sense of artistry displayed in quilt Patchwork depicts diversity of St. Margaret's House 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
Assistant Accent Editor 
The women at St. Margaret's House downtown have been busy sewing a quilt that incor­porates photographic images of themselves and their environ­ment. 
"This quilt project has helped to unite the women at St. Margaret's House and gives ev­eryone a sense of the communi­ty they have established there," said project consultant Mary Fran Brandenberger. a '78 Saint Mary's graduate. 
St. Margaret's House serves as a day center for women, not a shelter. The house is located on Washington St. downtown behind St. James Episcopal Church. 
' Almost everybody 
down at the center has discovered their own niches in contributing to the quilt.' 
-Kathy Schneider 
The quilt project developed in January after the need arose for a project to help build a sense of community among the women. many of whom are a transient group of people with no sense of stability, according to Brandenberger. 
"From then on the quilt be­came a movement of its own," she said. 
The moving images of both the volunteers and the St. Margaret's women on each 

Photo courtesy of Tom Perez
patch of the quilt display a 
The quilt project has provided the women of St. Margaret's House with a sense of accomplisment. 
unique sense of their artistry. 
This quilt project involves so images; volunteers then sew ject." House is made up of real peo­brought it to life." much work that everyone gains brightly colored material "Not only does this project ple," Schneider said. "It's an Brandenberger expects the a sense of self-satisfaction and around these pictures "so each teach the women certain skills educational tool for the commu­quilt to be fmished sometime in confidence in their work, picture is framed together with and build self-esteem, but the nity." May, and it will become a per­according to Kathy Schneider. material," Schneider described. quilt construction builds a "These women don't look manent part of St. Margaret's director of St. Margaret's House People have served as our sense of commitment and unity much different than any other and they will also display it in and a '78 Notre Dame gradu­photographers, they have among the women," Schneider women in the community," ex­the community. ate. sewed, they have gathered and said. pressed Brandenberger. "We have tentative plans to 
"Almost everybody down at cut materials and others have "Through the quilt, the com­"Displaying the quilt will give bring the quilt to Saint Mary's the center has discovered their employed their talent to color munity becomes a building tool people a sense of who these and Notre Dame in the fall, own niches in contributing to coordinate the quilt. where women come together to women are." along with the local venders the quilt," Schneider added. "Some people just enjoy work on a common project to­"Because the women lacked a and funders from the diocese," 
The construction process in­being a part of the quilt," gether," she added. lot of self confidence at first, she said. volves taking original color Schneider said. "They bring "One of the main goals behind they thought it was going to be "We are very grateful to have photos and then transferring their children and friends just the quilt project is to show the more that they can handle," she such a rewarding opportunity," them onto the quilt as acrylic to be photographed for the pro-community that St. Margaret's added. "But the women have Brandenberger said. 

John Vernon reaches the realms of fantasy and the traditional 

By MAIT CARBONE 
Accent Writer 
His historical novel "Peter Doyle" begins with the theft of Napoleon's penis. 
He is a poet, novelist and critic. 
His works have been com­mended by The New York Times. 
He is John Vernon, and he will be giving a workshop and reading at Notre Dame tomor­row. 
That Vernon is a guest on campus is due in large part to the efforts of Valerie Sayers. associate professor of English and director of the university's Creative Writing Program. 
"His work has the kind of scope we think will be especial­ly interesting to students," said Sayers. "His work is really compelling because it combines historical figures with fantasy figures and more traditional fictional figures." 
At 12 p.m. tomorrow in the Hesburgh Library lounge, Vernon will conduct a writing workshop open to anyone interested, wherein he will share his personal observations about his writing and writing in general. 
"[Vernon] will talk about the difference between writing novels and writing short sto­ries," according to Vernon, both of which he has written with considerable success. 
One of the students hoping to glean the secrets of this suc­cess will be senior Liam Brockey. 
"As a history major, I really enjoy the historical aspects of Vernon's fictional writing. I read "Peter Doyle" recently, and it blew me away," said Brockey. "Who knows, maybe after this workshop, and with a 
little practice, I can become the 
next John Vernon." 
This was exactly the reaction 
Sayers is hoping for from stu­
dents attending the workshop. 
Sayers sees Vernon's historical 
fiction as potentially appealing 
to a broad range of disciplines, 
' His language is very vivid, powerful and playful at the same time. 

-Valerie Sayers 
offering something for every­
one. 
"His language is very vivid, 
powerful, and playful at the 
same time," said Sayers. 
Vernon will also give a read­
ing from his varied works 
tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Admission is free and open to 
the public. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 12, 1994 
Knowing the importance of this game, the defensive effort
Lacrosse The Ballpark is a beauty,on the part of the Irish should be strong. They have been the 
continued from page 16 
backbone of the team thus far and will be looking to once They have gotten Butler off again make their presence 

but it's not without flaws 
to a 4-4 start. They do possess the talent to challenge the Irish. 
"They have a couple of good players in every position," said Gallagher. "For the most part they rely on two attackmen and a midfielder for their goals. They have some people who can score a lot." 
known. 
"It's time for us to put the clamps on. Myself, Mike Iorio, Chris Bury, and the rest of the team really needs to do what were capable of. If we do, we should be fine, especially con­sidering the fact that we have plenty of guys who can score." 
BOOKSTORE RESULTS-MONDAY, APRIL 11 
Malicious Prosecution d. Team 119 21-1 0 60 Inches d. Snapple Beverage Corp. 21-12 Hell Yeah ... d. Clean Smear 21-13 3 Sick People & 2 ... d. Team 145 21-9 Vertically Challenged d. Kevorka Boys 21-8 Team 259 d. Be-Otches 21-11 How Hot is Red Hot? d. Bye 21-16 Keith Kurowski's Shooting Seamen d. Schindler's List 21-15 Shirts d. KASQSM 21-4 Sweeter Than Candy d. R.S.V.P. 21-19 Vasoli's Revenge d. After We Win This We'll Play ... 22-20 Buck Melanoma's Motivational Speakers d. The Scrocks 21-13 Gently With a Chainsaw d. 5 Sweaty Bakes You Got a Rip in Your Couch d. Team OC 21-12 A Woodworker & His Apprentices d. 4 Girls With Master ... 21-10 Team 142 d. The Masons 21-10 Wham, Bam, Slam, Jam & Fred d. Paper Cuts 21-16 General Maddog & The Freedom Fighters d. Fast Girls Rigid Body Dynamics d. These Are Not the Droids You're ... 21-8 Woody and Four Other Stiffs d. 4th Floor Studs 21-18 Choc Full of Putz d. Ginger Hearts 21-13 Four Soccer Players & A Fat Guy d. Knight Train II... 21-11 Sudden Death d. Bad Karma (forfeit) Team 324 d. Four Men & A Ferry 21-5 Nonchalant Vomit d. The Fab Four & Another Guy ... 21-16 
B.Y.E. d. The Secretion 22-20 The Unmentionables d. The Freshman 1002 13-4 Team 92 d. Dicken's Cider 
,­
Straight Buddah, Baby d. Team Orgo 21-6 Vito's Barber Shop d. A Couple Lads & A Texan ... 21-3 Fugitives d. Level42 21-7 L-Train d. We're Going To Sizzler ... 21-10 Team Hooters d. Sweet Sensation 21-8 
Low rails blamed for woman's fall 
By JAIME ARON 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas 
It only took one game in The Ballpark in Arlington to show the Texas Rangers they have a lot of work to do both on and off the field. 
The most serious lesson ac­tually came after Monday's 4-3 loss to the Milwaukee Brewers, when 26-year-old Holly Minter was seriously injured in a 30­foot fall from the upper deck in right field to the lower section. 
She was being treated at Parkland Memorial Hospital after slipping while rosing for a picture. A security guard re­portedly was on his way to ask her to move when she fell. There are no warning signs on the rails. 
One of the criticisms against the $189 million stadium has been the low rails in front of every section, especially the higher areas. 
As for the team, it learned several things about the new stadium, especially about how not to play the right field line. 
Texas also found out it needs to work on fundamentals, such as Doug Strange being thrown out rounding first. And some clutch hitting would have helped; Strange struck out with no outs and the bases loaded, then Juan Gonzalez grounded into a double play. 
"We didn't use our ballpark to our advantage today," Rangers manager Kevin Kennedy said. 
The Brewers did, as Dave Nilsson broke in the Home Run Porch in right with a homer in the fifth. An inning later, Kevin Seitzer got an RBI triple off a ball right fielder Rob Ducey misplayed along the line. 
Ducey charged Seitzer's sink­ing liner, but missed. The ball caromed off a side wall and rattled into the corner, allowing Darryl Hamilton to score and give the Brewers a 2-0 lead. 
"Kevin wants us to play ag­gressively and that's what I did," Ducey said. "The only way you can play it right is to wait until the ball stops rolling, then pick it up." 
The Rangers had other chances, especially in the eighth, when they loaded the bases with no outs. 
Strange, who already had made the baserunning mistake and a run-producing error, struck out. After Jose Canseco walked in a run, Gonzalez ended the threat by lunging at a low pitch and hitting a roller to shortstop. 
"It was a big situation," he said. "I would have loved to get the big hit there. Next time." 
Milwaukee manager Phil Garner was relieved by the end of the rally. 
"We didn't want to walk 
Canseco, but we came back and threw that big double play ball," Garner said. "We wanted to keep the fans on the edge of their seats, to give them some­thing to remember besides the good food and ambience of this park." 
Although the game was played under sunshine and mostly clear skies, it was de­layed 52 minutes by showers that forced the cancellation of batting practice, and by pregame festivities. 
The delay also gave everyone a chance to give their views on the gorgeous new park, which intentionally evokes memories of other classic stadiums like Fenway Park, Wrigley Field and Tiger Stadium. 
"To think you could build a new ballpark that has the char­acter that this park does, that reflects the history and tradi­tion not only of the region but of the game, is remarkable," said Milwaukee owner Bud Selig, also baseball's temporary leader. 
Milwaukee starter Jaime Navarro (1-0) allowed the sta­dium's first hit to David Hulse, then retired 17 straight. He fin­ished with five hits and three runs in seven innings. 
Jesse Orosco got two outs in the ninth and Bob Scanlan fin­ished for the save. 
'Texas starter Kenny Rogers (0-2). rocked in his first ap­pearance of the season against New York, gave up only eight hits in 7 2-3 innings. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TROOP NOTRE DAME 
Dancers Needed for St. Ed's Carnival!! 
Meeting: Tues. 4-12 @ Rock 219 8 pm 
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S everyday but sunday until 5:30pm 233-2342 NO ave & Howard 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Helplll A purple Columbia jacket was taken from 126 Debartolo on March 28 and I'm very cold. I am offering a reward for its return or the return of my glasses. Please call Sean at631-8839to claim your reward. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Found-
Gold Bracelet at The Village 
Landing on Friday March 25. Call 
to identify@ x0915. Ask for Ryan. 
FOUND: Black Casio Watch on 
4/4/94 in front of Fisher/Pangbom 
on the quad. If it is yours call Erika 
at4-4059. 
Lost: Gold Bracelet A men's gold, rope chain bracelet was lost somewhere on campus. If found, please call Keith @4-1824. 
LOST: A blue, London Fog, light­
weight jacket with a liner. 
Call Eric at 4-3376. 
Summer Resort Jobs -Earn to $12/hr.+ tips. Locations include: Hawaii, Florida, Rocky Mountains, Alaska, New England, etc. for details call: 1·800-807-5950 ext. R5584. 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on cruise ships or land-tour companies. World travel. Summer & full-time employment available. No exp necessary. For info call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
GOLF COURSE NEEDS HARD­WORKING, CONSCIENTIOUS, EARLY RISERS FOR SEASONAL EMPLOYMENT. 45 HAS/WEEK. EXP. PREF. 
GOLF PRIVIL. 
287-1996. 
Are you INTERNING or WORKING in WASHINGTON DC this summer? 2 females are looking for room­mates or info on housing/apart­ments. Call Kelly x4270 
WE'RE TAKING APPLICATIONS 
FOR PEOPLE WHO LIKE PEO­
PLE. NOW HIRING COCKTAIL SERVERS, BARTENDERS, 
COOKS, AND FOOD SERVERS. 
PLEASE APPLY AT HACIENDA 
700 LINCOLN WAY WEST 
MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929·4398 ext A29. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Earn up to $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
COLLEGE PARK 
CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library -New appliances -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -Washer & Dryer units -Large closets -Covered parking -Security System -Large balconies ---'Units now available­
$660 per month ..... Going Quickly!! ••••••••cALL: 272-0691•••••••••• 
TIME IS RUNNING OUT! Call Kelly or Judie at291-1414to reserve your Hertz Penske truck to make your move home this summer easi­er. 
1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW & FALL. STARTING AT $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER­TIES.272-6306 
APT AVAILABLE FOR RENT summer + 94·95 Hickory Village 5 min to NO: 200/mo uti! pd w/roommatesl 273-8369 
Oak Hill-Roommates needed 
Summer roommates wanted for Oak Hill condo, rent very reason­able. Call Chris @ 273-2070. 

FOR SALE 
MOVING SALEII White leather couch w/ a-size fold-out bed, home-entertainment center, coffee table, a-size bed, dresser/mirror, '91 Red Mercury Capri Convertible. 33K, Power locks, AM/FM Cassette A/C. Call 233-5773. 
1985 Ford L TO White 96k mi. new battery $1200,277-7405 
QUEEN box springs excellent quali· ty, like new! $100 or best offer. call heather, 234-2846. 
FURNITURE FOR SALE call 273-4803 
IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS REALTY 272-6306,232-1466 
College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath, w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to· 
P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN 46634 
••• FOR SALE: 1983 FORD ••• In great condition, with 60,000 m. $900 or best offer. Call4-4091 
'85 Alta Romeo Spider Convert., 5-speed, $2,900. Call277-3068 
CPU 486 DX/33 chip Call Matt at 273-8859 
Near NO -3 bedrm house. 
Reasonable 233-8855 
87 Accord LX. Very well kept. Must see. $6900. Kevin, 277-4339 

TICKETS 
HELPII I need extra grad. tix call PIER 273-4909 
Attention!II The 'Big Dog' has a deal for you Ill I have two tickets to Tokyo, Japan! Wait, there's more, much morel! 
1) Round Trip Airfare (yee-hah)l! 
2) 3 Nights in a Downtown Hotel 
3) one stop is allowed on the trip free of charge HEY SENIORS!! Have extra grad tix?? We need 6 in total. Please help!! Chris x1815 Liz x1912 

PERSONAL 
We are a young white Christian couple in their thirties, who live far away from the busy city life on 2000 acres. Tremendous amount of love is waiting for the special child we look forward to adopting. Call Brent or Tina at1-800-206-7727. 
•••••••••••••KATHARSIS************ 
APRIL 15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss 
out. Fun starts at10.For more 
information on gigs and parties 
call237-9702. Ask for LENNY. 
•••••--••••••KATHARSIS************ 
Adopt -Happily married couple wants to give your newborn love & security while easing your decision. Expenses paid. Jean & Steve 1­800-362-8856 
Do you have Thur-3/31 Letterman w/ Madonna on tape? If so, please call 284-5065, also would like Fri. 
4/1. 
BOOKSTORE XXIII: 
Be a part of the ACTION II Contact John Neal@ 271-1706 or Mike Hanley @ x1175 to be 
In a hurry ... 
don't worry. 
FAX IT! 
at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center NEW LOWER PRICES! 
hey T and B-how about some $J•••J$ IRISH GARDENS $J•••J$ 
Come join this one-of-a-kind STU­DENT-RUN business! 
Irish Gardens is now accepting applications for the 1994-95 school year for both in-store and delivery positions. No floral experience nec­essary: we seek creativity and unbridled enthusiasm. 
Please pick up an application today in the store in the basement of LaFortune. Call631-4004 for inquiries. 
$J•••J IRISH GARDENS$!•••! 
EUROPE ONLY $229, NY $79 
AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009 Call for program descriptions! 
but harry ... mission accomplished 
maybe you should just leave them alone, S, and let them grow on their own 
E, who was that with you in the stanford bathroom at3 a.m.? 
happy belated jack and jill!! we love you 
thanks M, i owe you a big one! ...or do you owe me? 
K! -8ee-atch, she's a monster! She runs, she jogs, she lilts 
weights. 
Mark your calendars NOW! 
Wednesday,April20, 1994 
Club 23 
ROAD RUNNER and the Acme Do-ll-Yourself Homkit 
Critics say: "Cartoon tun .... 
danced like there was no 
NO or SMC student to care lor 3 · night stand, high-boy dresser, All these luxurious flying tidbits for salty milk and mayonnaise with tomorrow." -The Observer 

WANTED 
children June 13 -Aug 5, Mon thru glass/iron table w/ chairs & more! the low price of $500 per ticket. tomatoes and apples March 28, 1994 Fri. Must have good references and Call273-1984. Please Call: Companions for summer trans-US love kids. Non smoker. Caii7-10pm Rob 'da BIG DOG' Piecuch See what the excitement bike tour 273-6109 708-524-9386 x4328 Vva ... Vva .. .Vva is all about! 

Tuesday, April12, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
game of last weekend's three­game series with Eastern
Flrunes 
Illinois, might be on the mound 


r----------------------------, 
1 C D Bob Lisanti ( J r) 
: D Dennis Twombley (Fr) : 1B D Robbie Kent (So) 1 D Devin Tommasini (Fr) 
I 1 D Greg Layson (Sr) I 28 D Robbie Kent (So) 
I I 
D Paul Failla (Jr) 
ss 
D Javier Fuentes (Fr) D Matt Haas (Sr) 
38 
D Mark Mapes (So) D Rowan Richards (So)
LF 
D Robby Birk (Jr) D Robby Birk (Jr) 
CF 
D Scott Sollman (Fr) D Mike Amrhein (Fr)
RF 

D Ryan Topham (So) 
DH D George Restovich (So) D Mark Mapes (So) J The player with the most votes at each position will start the 2nd game of the doubleheader on Monday, April18. 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1995-96. All freshmen, sophomores and juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Wednesday evening, April13, 1994 at 7:00pm in room 131 DeBartolo 
SOPHOMORES 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN BEING ONJUNIOR CLASS COUNCIL NEXT YEAR, (DORM REPS AND COMMISSIONERS), PICK UP AN APPLICATION IN STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE. 
DEADLINE APRIL 15 BY 5:00P.M. 
"1988 EliiiiiiY Award 'YiiqerR 
lfE))NESnAY, AI•IUL 131,0 
IliUM l~OJ..J.,Olf 
~~World's Greatest Sports Writer"-GQ 
continued from page 16 
row Murphy could save Price. In that case, freshman Gregg Henebry (1-1) who started Friday night's 13-2 win might get the nod. 
VIC has little to counter with offensively. It's top hitter, Jon Piazza, is also the Flames' top pitcher. As a designated hitter, the junior holds a team-high .396 batting average and, as a pitcher, his 2.82 ERA and 5-2 record are also best on the team. 
Piazza, who threw a 5-4 com­plete game victory in the first tonight. 
VIC's middle infield also pro­vides a sizable chunk of its of­fense with second baseman Carmen Carcone hitting .350 and shortstop Jody Brown hit­ting .299. 
Brown also leads the team in runs batted in, doubles and stolen bases. 
Outfielders Mike Petak and Chris Vetor are also contribu­tors for the Flames' offense hit­ting .280 and .267 respectively. 
Notre Dame, 23-5 overall against the Flames, shoots for its sixth straight victory tonight at 7 p.m. at Eck Stadium. 





ARCHERY MINI-COURSE 
TUESDAY & THURSDAY  
APRIL 12 & 14  
li  7:00 PM -9:00 PM JACCGYM1  
I  ALL EQUIPMENT WILL BE PROVIDED  
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY  
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED  
REGISTER IN ADVANCEATRECSPORTS  
$6.00FEE  



freshman or sophomore, you can still college. you'll have the credentials of 
catch  up  to  your  Classmates  by  ''""""  an  Army  officer.  You'll  also  have  
attendmg Army ROTC Camp Chal­ '­ the  self-conftdence  and  dlSctplme  
lenge.  a  patd  stx-week  summer  1t  takes to succeed  m college and  
course m leadership trammg  beyond  

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 

-·--------------~------­
Tuesday, Aprill2, 1994 


Kruk's return a big hit 

By JOHN F. BONFATTI Fregosi said. "He will have rest. I'll Associated Press probably play him four-five times a week." PHILADELPHIA 
"That's up to him," Kruk said. ''I'm John Kruk slid his nameplate into the 
just glad they let me play today." lineup board in the Philadelphia Phillies 
Kruk was told the radiation treat­
clubhouse. 
ments, which are designed to assure General manager Lee Thomas came that the cancer does not spread, might by later and started to slide it out, then make him weak. But he insisted he felt 
stopped. 
fine. 
Thomas' change of heart signaled 
"Everything will be all right," he said. 
good things for the Phillies on Monday, 
"They had a concern about whether I who nonetheless lost their home opener 
could play back-to-hack games or 
to the Colorado Rockies, 8-7. 
three-four in a row, but I don't think it Kruk, seeing his first major league would be that much of a problem."
action since doctors removed a cancer­
The first game certainly wasn't a 
ous testicle March 8, went 3-for-5, had problem, although Kruk wasn't happy an RBI and scored two runs. 
that he dropped a one-hop throw from Six hours after undergoing the 16th of 
shortstop Kevin Stocker on his first 
18 low-level radiation treatments he is fielding play in the first inning. 
scheduled to receive, Kruk forced him­
Joe Girardi reached on the error 
self into the lineup by talking manager charged to Stocker and then scored on Jim Fregosi into starting him. 
Andres Galarraga's double to put
"We had discussions," he said. "The Colorado up 1-0. 
concern was if I played one game and 
But in the Phillies' first, Kruk, battingthen I couldn't play for two-three days, 
third, drove a high fastball off Mike then why take me off (the disabled list). 
Harkey deep to center field, bringingI had to convince them to let them 
home Mariano Duncan with Philadel­know that I didn't think it would be any 
phia's first run. problem. They bit." Kruk said he felt like he was ready to 
His thought at the time? be an every-day player, but Fregosi 
"It's a tie game, thank God, because I said otherwise. 
dropped that ball Stocker threw and let 
"I will not play him every day," 
them score," he said. 
Attitude key for Belles 
take a .............l 

against Calvin 
KARA MASUCCI Sports Writer 
Today. the Saint Mary's soft­ball team defends its 19-5 record by taking on Calvin College at home. 
The team is coming off Ioss­ing to Hope this weekend; how­ever, they feel confident about their ability to beat Calvin. 
"Hope is ranked in the top twenty, and we split (won one game, lost one game) with them. Calvin also split, so our skills are matched," stated se­nior Stacy Bogataj. 
Coach Don Kromer feels that ~he Belles played their best, but what hurt them was the num­ber of injuries they had. 
"We couldn't have asked for a better game. We have been playing well and together. The team works well off the field, so that helps on the field. However, what has hurt us re­cently is the number of dings that players have taken. Just today, pitcher Lori 

Langerderfer got banged in the r------~--'AocH'.m-mom-coM'M3'08-i09no-'HE5849'1-5i3884--Mus-iio-5i363s--soc-4i9-0i-37i'5, eye," stated Kromer. I ARCH 543 04 3376 COMM 308 22 9722 HIST 308A 01 2773 MUS 226 01 1932 SOC 430 01 3918 According to team members, I ARCH 565 01 3365 COMM 384 28 9728 HIST 319A 01 3583 MUS 228 01 3623 SOC 445 01 3717
018
the key to victory will be to 
I ARHI 169 01 1128 COTH 210 01 0664 HIST 354A 01 3587 PHIL 221 01 0172 SOC 452 01 3718 
keep the mental attitude up, 
I CLOSED SEC-ARST 23IS 01 1147 COTH 377 01 2752 HIST 453A 01 3595 PHIL 225 01 2783 STY 454 01 2718
play together. and keep the 
ITIONS AS OF 7:00 BA 362 01 1199 ECON 401 01 3495 HIST 456A 01 3597 PHIL 235 01 2014 THEO 250 01 0976
bats swinging. 
I P.M. 4/11/94 BA 363 01 1200 ECON 421 01 3497 HJST 458 01 2872 PHIL 241 01 4023 THEO 253 01 1003
"We are hoping to forget los­
I BA 363 02 1441 ECON 434 01 3500 HIST 458A 01 2873 PHIL 241 02 4024 THEO 265 01 1002
ing the second game to Hope, 
play strong, and get ahead IACCT 371 04 1053 BA 391 01 1030 ECON 484 01 2758 HIST 471A 01 3599 PHIL 246 01 2015 THEO 282 01 0261 
quickly," said sophomore pitch­IACCT 380 01 1059 BA 391 02 0928 EOUC 404 48 8448 HIST 474A 01 2686 PHIL 247 01 3642 THEO 282 02 3740 
er Maria Vogel. IACCT 475 01 1060 BA 490 01 1205 ENGL 301B 01 0769 HIST 486A 01 3603 PHIL 261 01 2016 THEO 287 01 3744 
"We're all a bit tired after the IACCT 476 02 1063 BA 490 04 1206 ENGL 306C 01 3776 HIST 493 01 3604 PHIL 261 02 0653 THEO 290 01 0570 weekend, but if we get our IACCT 476 05 3148 BIOS 344L 02 1223 ENGL 319A 01 1549 HIST 496 01 3607 PSY 341 03 2444 THEO 395 01 2526 heads into the game and our 9 1
IACCT 4 9 0 4089 BIOS 344L 04 0630 ENGL 319A 02 1550 liPS 420 01 3930 PSY 342 01 2164 THEO 475 01 3750
bats going, we will be fine," 3
IAFAM 29 01 2811 BIOS 401L 01 1799 ENGL 471T 02 3805 liPS 471 01 2757 PSY 355 01 Or'i2 THTR 276 54 9754
stated Bogataj. 
IAFAM 393 01 2892 BIOS 420L 03 3202 ENGL 495 01 3809 LAW 631A 01 1725 PSY 453 01 0310 THTR 276 56 97S6I
Freshman Melissa Sanchez 
1AFAM 401 01 3377 CAPP 216 01 3848 FIN 347 02 31S1 LAW 631B 01 J726 PSY 454 OJ 0833 I
feels that the Belles are men­1 AMST 303E 01 279S CAPP 331 01 0724 FIN 360 02 1S65 LAW 6310 01 1728 PSY 462 01 3979 CLASSES THAT
tally prepared for Calvin. "We are mentally still into IAMST 319E 02 3864 CAPP 361 01 1271 FIN 376 02 1S78 LAW 679 01 2781 PSY 470 01 3674 WILL REOPEN ATI 
this game. We went out to beat IAMST 35SH 01 386S CAPP 368 01 0665 FIN 470 01 1583 LAW 69S 02 1734 PSY 487A 01 3676 7:00P.M. 4/12/94 Hope, and we played our best. IAMST 369H 01 3866 CAPP 37S 01 3849 GEOS 141L OS 4016 LAW 695 03 173S PSY 487C 01 3678 The loss won't affect us," said 
IAMST 382H 01 3867 CE 452 01 128S GOVT 242T 01 351S LAW 695 04 J736 PSY 4870 01 3679 AFAM 393 01 2892 
Sanchez. 
IAMST 387H 01 2684 CHEG 459 02 1302 GOVT 242T 04 3518 LAW 695 OS 1737 RLST 240 50 9S50 ANTH 390 01 3390
According to Kromer, today's 
IAMST 456H 01 3869 COCT 441 01 3466 GOVT 242T 06 3521 LAW 695 06 0710 RLST 240 54 9554 BA 490 04 1206 
game is critical if the Belles 
IAMST 493E OJ 3961 COMM 103 01 9701 GOVT 243T 06 3532 MARK 476 01 1753 ROFR 435 01 3689 ENGL 319A 02 f550
want to advance to the NCAA 
finals. Currently they IANTH 328 01 2677 COMM 103 05 9705 GOVT 301 01 3965 MARK 476 02 17S4 ROFR 443 01 3690 HIST 308A 01 2773
are ranked sixth in the Midwest. :ANTH 329 01 2809 COMM 103 09 9709 GOVT 325 01 3876 MATH 102 01 0572 ROSP 328 01 2340 HIST 496 01 3607
-"We play in six games this IANTH 386 01 3388 COMM 103 11 9711 GOVT 491F 01 0594 ME 331L 01 0430 ROSP 328 02 0043 LAW 679 01 2781 week, and they will determine IANTH 390 01 3390 COMM 210 14 9714 GOVT 491G 01 0593 MGT 240 04 1878 ROSP 412 01 3702 PSY 4870 01 3679 whether or not we advance and 
IANTH 420 01 3393 COMM 300 16 9716 GOVT 491H 01 3551 MGT 240 06 1879 SOC 332 OJ 2615 ROFR 435 01 3689 have a bid," stated Kromer. 
ARCH 443 01 1122 COMM 303 18 9718 GSC 412F 01 3829 MGT 451 OJ 2890 SOC 401 01 3917 ROSP 328 02 0043 
IARCH 443 03 0035 
L----------------------------------------------------~ 

----~---~--~---~ ----~-----~~----------------­
Tuesday, April12, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
.... . -. 
Approximately 215 ··,.·,·,,n'""''" and walkers participa Saturday's "Spring Fling," and 1OK run and a one walk. . .+H WQU 
The event was sponsored by''''iic•.title 
RecSports and Notre Dame?~ .Dan ..... . Food Service, with all the proc ,,.. ty/staff men · divisiufn ceeds being donated tq and Marjqfie 
Christmas in April. ,,.,~·==··· ~-cy/sta_~-~;.~:-~es~·-. _ ._,. 
In the 5K, Jeff Matsumot ···· 'th a,ti~neQ:!28:4 ·· · won the undergraduate men's ... tch,ael Kennett division with a time of 16:30. undergraduate men' 
Pre•Law Society 

April 12 • Cushing Auditorium • 7:30p.m. • 

Diversified Portfolios 

What is a global investment bank's single most valuable 
asset? At CS First Boston, it is clearly our employees. 
And they are the reason we are a leading innovator in the 
investment banking community. Our global team of profes­
sionals combines tbe unique strengths of each employee 
to consistently and successfully develop innovative 
products and services. For more than 60 years -in areas includ­ing Investment Banking, Public Finance, Sales and Trading, and Research -the ideas of our employees have helped shape the face of global finance. As you consider your first career move, consider CS First Boston, where opportunities for success are as diverse as your interests. 
m cs FIRST BosTON 
~ 
----------------~-----~------~ 
page 13 
"'·­
Irish men's volleyball focused on Nationals 
By G.R. NELSON 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's vol­leyball team is coming off an up and down weekend as they prepare for Nationals in Tempe. Arizona. 
Thr weekend started with a home victory over a strong Purdue team in four games. 
In that game, the Irish bal­anced a strong offense with an excellent defense. They started out slow, but then came on strong. 
Senior captain Brian Ceponis keyed the offense with 17 kills and setter Chris Fry set the tone defensively with several key blocks. Fry also distrib­uted the ball very well. 
"They are a strong team, and it was a big win," commented head coach Jennifer Slosar. "It was a good time." 
The Irish had little time to sa­vor the victory, leaving early the next morning for a tri­match with Quincy and Trinity colleges. 
They defeated Quincy 12-15, 15-0, 10-15, 15-9, 15-8 and succumbed to Trinity 15-6, 15­11, 15-17, 12-15, 10-15 . 
Against Quincy, Brian Ceponis dominated, amassing a total of 25 kills. Junior outside hitter Matt Strottman con­tributed with sixteen kills. Both are ready for nationals. "I am definitely hitting my high point," said Ceponis. 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame ended its season with a loss, blowing a two game lead. Ceponis had 24 kills, Strottman had 15, and sophomore Miguel Ascencio added 16. 
Ascencio has become a key player for the Irish during the second half of the season. Notre Dame, which finished 15-3, brushed off the final loss. 
"We played 14 games in 20 hours," explained Ceponis. "We were fatigued more than any­thing else." 
The Irish are now looking forward to nationals with great expectations. 
"We have the experience," said Slosar. "If we stay focused, we play with anyone." 
Ceponis put those words into a mild prediction. 
"We definitely want to make the top sixteen and hopefully the top ten," said Ceponis. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
CORRECTION 
Photos in yesterday's Observer incorrectly identi­fied two Irish baseball play­ers. The photos were actually pitcher A.J. Jones and 2nd baseman Greg Layson. The Observer regrets the errors. 
-
.. 


Tuesday, Aprill2, 1994 
_,. 
t 
The Observer/Jake Peters Irish pitche.r Terri K.obata wa~ named MCC playe~ of the week after throwing a perfect game and a no-h1tter agamst Detro1t Mercy and Evansville, respectively. 
Irish softball hosts DePaul in key Midwest 01atch-up 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
After ~ominating four games this weekend against conference rivals Evansville and Detroit Mercy the Notre Dame softball team established itself as one of the teams lo beat in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
Today, the Irish will see if they are among the elite in the entire Midwest region as they host a doubleheader against DePaul at 3 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
As is usually the case at Notre Dame, weather permitting. 
The Blue Demons are ranked second in the NCAA Mideast Regional Poll, and Irish coach Liz Miller knows today's game will be a tough test. 
"DePaul is one of the best teams in our region; they could easily be ranked No. 1," she says. "They have a lot of speed and some very strong hitters." 
Leading the Blue Demons is Missy Nowak. Her .558 batting average is second in the NCAA. 
Erin Hickey is batting at a .447 clip, and her 22 stolen bases has her in the NCAA top ten. 
The DePaul pitching corps are led by Marie O'Beck. O'Beck has a 7-2 record with five saves and a 1.45 ERA. Kimberlee Blackmore and Amber Podlemy sport 2.08 and 2.07 ERA's respectively. Blackmore has a 9-2 record and Podlemy 6-2. 
"With their speed and hitting ability, a key for us will be to keep them ofT the bases," Miller says of today's game. 
If Notre Dame is able to pitch like it did over the weekend, that should be no problem. 
Sophomore Terri Kobata threw a perfect game Sunday. after she had picked up a win in a relief appearance in the day's first game. She also tossed a no-hitter Saturday en route to being named MCC player of the week. 
"We've been working with Terri on not throwing good pitches all the time," Miller said. "She did a great job this weekend of getting ahead of the batters and then making them chase bad pitches." 
Kobata was quick to share the acclaim with her teammates: "I didn't have that many strikeouts. The team just looked really strong; our defense and offense looked really good." 
The Irish offense was as tough as it has been all season, cranking out 42 hits and scoring 28 runs over four weekend games. 
"It is important that we continue hit­ting like we did this weekend," Miller said. "If we can keep our momentum going at the plate it will a big factor in 
. winning these two games." 

The University ofNotre Dame College ofBusiness Administration and the 

1'\otre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious
Notre Dame Center for Ethics 
Values in Business 
and Religious Values in Business 
present a conference 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN A GLOBAL ECONOMY: THE CHALLENGE 
Aprilll-13, 1994 
MONDAY, APRIL 11 
11:00 a.m. Session I 
Panel:  David W. Fox, Chairman and CEO, Northern Trust Company  
Paul M. Henkels, Chairman, Henkels & McCoy Inc.  
James N. Sullivan, Vice Chairman of the Board, Chevron Corporation  
Chair:  John W. Houck, Co-Director, Center for Ethics and Religious Values in  
Business, University of Notre Dame  

2:00 p.m. Session II Robert J. Samuelson, Contributing Editor, Nwswuk: "R.I.P.: The Good Corporation" 
Chair: Carolyn M. Callahan, Associate Professor, Accountancy, University of Notre Dame 
3:15 p.m. Session III James E. Post, Professor of Management, Boston University: "The New Social Contract." 
RichardT. DeGeorge, University Distinguished Professor orPhilosophy, University of Kansas: "The Myth of Corporate Social Responsibility: Integrity and Ethics in International Business." 
W. Phillip Wagaman, Senior Minister, Foundry United Methodist Church, Washington, D.C.: "Accountability in aGlobal Economy." 
7:30 p.m. Address Robert W. Galvin, Chairman of the Executive Committee, Motorola, Inc.: 
"Corporate Social Responsibility Is Not aChallenge." Introduction: Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., University of Notre Dame 
TUESDAY, APRIL 12 
9:00 a.m. Smion IV 
S. Prakash Sethi, Associate Director, Center for Management, Baruch College, The City University of New York: "The Notion of a'Good' Corporation in a Competitive Global Economy: Moving from aSocially Responsible to a Socially Accountable Corporation." 
10:30 a.m. Session V 
Howard F. Rosen, Executive Director, Competitiveness Policy Council, Washington, D.C.: "The International Economic Order Revisited: Are We Better OffToday?" · 
Dennis P. McCann, Professor of Religious Studies, DePaul University: "Corporate Social Responsibility: Wisdom From the World's Religions." Chair: Jeffrey H. Bergstrand, Associate Professor, Finance, University of Notre Dame 
12:00 p.m. Lunch 
Remarks:  Timothy O'Meara, Provost and Kenna Professor of Mathematics, University of  
Notre Dame.  
Introduction:  John W. Houck  

2:00 p.m. Session VI 
William Lehr, Jr., Vice President and Secretary, Hershey Foods Corporation: "The Hershey Story: Vision and Leadership for aSocially Responsible Corporation." Chair: Kathleen Cannon, O.P., Associate Provost, University of Notre Dame 
3:15p.m. Session VII Michael Novak, George Frederick Jewett Chair and Director of Political Studies, American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research: "Seven Corporate Responsibilities" 
Kirk 0. Hanson, Senior Lecturer, Graduate School of Business, Stanford University: "Business Ethics at the Frontier: The New Dialogue" 
Gerald F. Cavanaugh, S.J., Academic Vice President, University of Detroit Mercy: "Evolution of Corporate Social Responsibility: Educating Stakeholders and various Entrepreneurs." 
Chair: Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C. Associate Provost and Co-Director, Center For Ethics and Religious Values in Business, University of Notre Dame 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13 
9:00 a.m. Session VJ!f' Panel: William D. Ford, President, Amoco Oil Company 
F. Byron Nasher, President and CEO, Frank C. Nasher,lnc. Chair: John B. Caron, retired Chairman and President, Caron International 
10:30 a.m. Session IX 
Maria v.N. Whitman, Distinguished Professor of Business and Public Policy, University of Michigan: ''The Socially Responsible Corporation: Responsibility to Whom and for What?" 
Ronald M. Green, Director, Institute for the Study of Applied Professional 
Ethics, Dartmouth College: "Responsibility and the Vittual Corporation" Thomas Donaldson, John F. Connelly, Professor of Business Ethics, Georgetown University: "The Social Contracts of International Business." ' 
Chair: Teresa Ghilarducci, Associate Professor, Economics, University of Notre Dame 
Naked Gun 33 (PG13) 12:30.2:45,5:15, 7:45,10:00 Cllflonl (PG) 1:45,4:15,7:00,9:30 W,~MIQidy bucb 2(PG) 1:00, 4:00, 6:45, 
~t League 2(PG) 1:15. 4:30. 7:30. 
The Paper(R~ 1:30, 4:45, 7:15,9:45 ~I l 12:45, 3:00. 5:30.7:45, 
Tbumblllna (G) 4:45 Jimmy Hollywood (R) 5:00. 7:30, 10:00 Mil. Doub1fire (PG13) 4:15,7:00,9:45 Guanling Tess (PG13) 7:15,9:30 

Co-Convenors: Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C John W. Houck Associate Provost and Co-Director Professor and Co-Director 
Sessions, unless otherwise noted, will be at the Center or Continuin Education 
Tuesday, Aprill2, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 

SPELUNKER 
D()N'I 61VE ME.
O.l(. "£N£"MA" I'M HERE.. 
"P~TIENG£;' Yoo GNOME.
NOLJ, WI\'ORE •ARE. H'/ I WANT ntiS FRIENDS 7 O'Jfi"RI NOW I 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Sprinted 55 Natural gait 28 "-Believer" 56 Emily, to 
1 Break down 
(Monkees hit) Charlotte
grammatically 
31 Barn topper 57 Madrid
&Items in a still 
attraction
life 32 Football squad 58 Kind of lot 
11 Braincase 36 Court ruling 60 Zebralike
13 "--Fables" 37 Hint to solving 
62 March
the eight 
15 Considers bond 
laboriously
italicized clues 
values again 
63 Paired nuclides 
39--Jima
16 Reduce to 
64 Catch suddenly 
ashes 40 Ignite 
65 Harvests
18 Fred's sister 42 Plane or dynamic
19-­
preceder
Speedwagon DOWN 43 Actress Ryan 
20 Not give-­
1 Trims
44 Deteriorate
21 Mediocre 
2Kind of
45 Curses
22Argued recording 24 Loudonville, 3 Passage 
47 Sprockets linker N.Y., campus 50 Reps.· ceremony 25 Classical name counterparts 4 Cash's "A Boy in medicine 51 Riding whip Named-" 
5 Printers' widths a Set the 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE standard for 
7 Architect Saarinen a Chemical suffix 9 Lettuce variety 10 Bowling save 11 Tomorrow: Lat. .-.:::+::+=-l 12 Try again ~~~ 14 Laurel or Musial -7+:;-.r.:::'E-l 17 Wet I and s watchdog 19 Deserters 22 Venus, for one -:-+7+::;.+=-B 23 River to the Laptev Sea 
-....;..L...:;'-'--..r...::...J 24 Game fish 
T'M NOr THE ~Ef.t SIRAR, HANK, 
So SE C.AR€ FUL WHA-l YOU f\<01;"" fOI<. 
iES, BUT I l-IP:-/~ TO <:£\ \1\l 11-\E '51-\0't\t.R BtrORt. '{OJR DAD 
Gt.\5 1-10\-111:., so 
liE 0-~ T"-~ O~t. 
BILL WATTERSON 
I TOLD '{OIJ 114\S IIOR_~Il\G WE'RE GO\~ <::lSI TOI--\IG\\1. ROS~\.'it-1 WI\.\. B'C. l-ItRe A.T "'00. 
DAVE KELLETT 
2650's singer 46 Act niggardly 54 Pea places Frankie 
47 Actor Gulager 56 Long account 27 Supplies with 
48 Emcee 57 Swift sailing better weapons 49Copycats boat
28 Kind 50 More extreme 59 B-F connection 
29--tai (cocktail) 52 Mustard plants 60 Salutation for 30 Cereal bristle 53 Baltic Sea Edmund Hillary 33 Robust energy feeder &1 Half a fly 34 Pronoun in a cote? 
Get answers to any three clues
35 Norfolk ale 
by touch-tone phone: 1~900-420­
38 20 + quires 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
41 Evaporated 
"Again? Criminy! How many times did I have a tentacle over the lens?" 
OF INTEREST 
•uncle ~a111•••.· What you:tal PoyE)J,1lrtle~t··employment. ··· · ess jobopportunitias effec~ 
procedures~ Learn how to es Wi.tholit being employed · .J\.ptil i12, 4,.5.p.m., Notre 
•... esented by Paula,Fook and lacementServices. 7;. 
.... ::~{.:~):::::-·,,_, '&:r . .~Jt:: 
lt11ITIY Gurule talksto the . ct 6ri the criminal justice the Mishawaka Brewery on ' the SoCiety of Professional 
i£• 
.. 
-
-· 


SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, Aprill2, 1994 
Baseball settling into its new digs 
Irish hope UIC is 
Murphy lets you next Eck victim choose the lineup 
By JENNY MARTEN By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Writer Senior Sports Writer 
Eck Stadium is starting to feel a lot In an effort to boost student interest more like home after five straight vic­in the baseball team, head coach Pat tories. Murphy will let the students choose the 
After sneaking by Toledo and abusing line-up for the second game of the Xavier last week, the Notre Dame April 18 doubleheader against baseball team looks to extend its win Cleveland State. streak tonight as Illinois-Chicago (9-"I want the students involved. It's 
15} comes to Eck for a single game. their college team," said Murphy of his 
Don't expect the Irish to be scared. plan. After scoring a total of 43 runs and Although the Irish are 5-3 since the shelling the Xavier pitchers with 16 stadium opener on March 30 with the extra base hits over the weekend, the only losses coming at the hands of 4th­Irish (13-7} are confident in their hit­ranked Miami Hurricanes, attendance ting ability. has been lagging. 
Not to mention that the Notre Dame The first two games played at Eck pitchers are finally coming into their Stadium were the best attended with own. The mound crew walked only 1,319 fans seeing the Indiana game on nine Musketeer batters and struck out March 30 and 1,975 people passing 33 while lowering the team ERA from through the turnstiles for the first 
3.43 to 3.32 in the four-game series. game of the doubleheader against 
Defensively, Notre Dame committed Miami on April 2. only three errors all last week for its Since those games, the Irish are aver­most defensively sound week so far aging only 383 fans per game in a sta­this year. dium that seats 3,000. 
If history repeats itself, tonight's Murphy is hoping that allowing the game should be interesting. Last year, students to choose the lineup will get captain Eddie Hartwell tied a school them out to Eck Stadium where they record with seven RBis in Notre can see the team in action. He will Dame's 19-6 victory over UIC. start whoever gets the most votes at all 
Although Hartwell is gone, the Irish the positions except pitcher. are looking for a similar result. The Allowing the students to determine Flames who are 9-15 overall and 4-5 who will start is part of Murphy's phi­in the Mid-Continent Conference come losophy that the only way the students into the game with a two-game losing are going to come out to the ballpark streak. and support the baseball team is when 
The Irish will try ta replace Hartwell they realize what this team has accom­with its trio of hot hitters. Freshman plished in the last five years. centerfielder Scott Sollmann of Since it joined the conference in 1989, Cincinnati, Ohio, is the hottest of them Notre Dame has won the Midwestern
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
all having impressed his hometown Reliever Rich Sauget and the Irish baseball team face Illinois-Chicago tonight at 7 Collegiate Conference tournament four fans with 10-for-13 hitting in the p.m. at Eck Stadium. out of five years. In the last two years, Xavier series. A number of those hits leads the starters with a .391 batting ranks second only to left fielder Mark winning the tournament has enabled came on bunts that Sollmann turned average In his last eight games, Haas Mapes in runs batted in. the Irish to advance to the NCAA into singles with his speed. is 13-for-26 with seven RBis, seven Who will be on the mound for the Regionals with an automatic bid. The 
"If I keep bunting the way I have," runs scored and four doubles. Irish is always a tricky question. Since team's performances in those regionals said the freshman of his chances for And who would want to forget sopho­senior Tom Price (5-2} did not pitch brought Notre Dame to the regional success tonight. "That's the reason I'm more first baseman Robbie Kent? Kent against Xavier this weekend, he would finals and within one game of the getting on base so much. I just want to with a .375 average has been a pitch­be ready to pitch tonight, but with an College World Series both years. put the ball in play, not pop it up, and er's nightmare of late. He leads the away game against Michigan tomor-Notre Dame's 185-59 record in the get on base." team with seven doubles, is tied for the last four years is the second best for a 
Senior third baseman Matt Haas team-lead in total hits with Haas and see FLAMES I page 11 Division I school in that span. 
It's gut check time for Irish lacrosse 
By TIM SHERMAN contests to earn the Midwestern berth day, actually for the whole week," said Sports Writer in the tournament. Gallagher. "We were fortunate to "It basically comes down to this (the come on top. Now that that is behind Now the real fun starts for the Notre next four games)." said junior us, we can look at it as a positive. It Dame lacrosse team. defensemen Bill Gallagher. "We need was definitely a good wake-up call and 
The 6-1 Irish have completed the to take all four. We're definitely capa­maybe what we needed headed into first part of the their season, as they ble, but we have to start now." this part of the season." have taken on seven east coast oppo­Right now, there is no room for the The first opponent in this vital nents. type of performance the Irish put in on stretch, Butler, should expect a well­
Now, they begin a four game stretch Saturday. prepared Irish squad this afternoon. against midwestern opponents begin­Although they were victorious, 16-They are going to have to rely on their ning today at Butler. 15 against Adelphi, the play was any­experience to stay close. 
Although it was crucial for the team thing but stellar. Eight starters return from last sea­to experience success early on, the Coach Kevin Corrigan's club knows son's squad. next four games are the determining they need to play a complete game "It is almost the same team we faced factor of whether or not the Irish and not experience the mental break­last year (20-11 Irish win)," noted appear in their fourth NCAA tourna­downs that plagued the Irish Gallagher. ment in five years. Saturday. 
Notre Dame must win their next four "We were just mentally slow that 
see LACROSSE I page 10 








