


Friday, March 18, 1994• Vol. XXVI Na. 107 THE INDE,PENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

By CORRINE DORAN Assistant News Ediror 
Sexuality will be confronted by members of the Notre Dame community next week as the Keeping the Faith series re­turns to the campus ministry's list of programs. 
"This year it's specifically fo­cused on sexuality, because sexuality is a major concern in the lives of all of us and a topic that is less discussed publicy here than is desirable," said Father Thomas McDermott, special projects director for campus ministry. 
"We planned (this series) be­cause it seems that this is an is­sue that is on people's minds around here," said Kate Bar­rett, director of religious educa­tion at campus ministry. "Sex­uality is a tough topic for any­body. Our focus is really on how as young men and women we can make decisions and how these decisions can be made easier," Barrett added. 
Because Notre Dame is a "place where plenty of people are trying to know themselves and build honest relationships," the topic of sexuality is appro­priate and necessary, said Me-Dermott. 
The open forum, open micro­phone format will feature ques­tions and comments from stu­dents on the issue of "Sexuality and the Notre Dame Student." 
"Each night there is a strong emphasis on facilitating con­versation with the students," McDermott said. 
The discussion is designed to reach the ministry's goal of in­tegrating the wisdom of the Church, our values and real life, according to Barrett. 
The forum will "hopefully, 
see SEX I page 4 
Phelps: ND nurtures feminine courage, change 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
Terry Phelps attributes her success as a tenured law school professor, doctor of philosophy, wife, mother, and feminist to Notre Dame in her book, "The Coach's Wife." 
A lesser university may not have given a woman the courage to write a book reveal­ing the sexism existent in sports, the Catholic Church, and Notre Dame itself, accord­ing to Phelps. 
It was a profound belief in the power of words, both academi­cally and socially, which com­pelled her to write her book, she said. 
As a legal scholar, Phelps at­tested to her witness of the power of storytelling, "It was believed that domestic abuse rarely happened. If it did hap­pen, it was the fault of the woman. It was as much a hus­band's right to beat his wife as it was to beat his horse, dog, and his children. The only rule was that the rod he used should be no thicker than his thumb. Furthermore, people were told by the governing patriarchy that it was a woman's job to keep the family together." 
It was only recently that women began to tell and write the truth about abuse and of how it was widespread across cultures and classes, said Phelps. 

Terry Phelps 
"Only when women began to tell and share their stories, did legislation change for the pro­tection of women. It is only by continuing to break the silence that we will make things change," she said. 
"I was married in the mid­60s when women identified themselves primarily through their husbands. I quit school after three years and followed my husband, a basketball coach, which was expected then," she said. 
But Phelps' book is not about how she fit into the mold of the coach's "lovelywife". "The title is both ironic and loving," said Phelps. "I am and was a coach's wife. But there's more to it." 
Phelps was in the first class of women graduates of Notre 
see PHELPS I page 4 
Panelists argue morality, fairness of death penalty 
By ROB ADAMS Staff Writer 
Three panelists who argued against the death penalty and one panelist who argued for the death penalty met before a stu­dent and faculty forum Thurs­day to discuss capital punish­ment without scheduled pan­elist, Sister Helen Prejean who had to leave Notre Dame early due to travel difficulties. 
Patty Molloy of Lyons Hall argued for the death penalty and opened her argument by stating that we have to recog­nize that there are certain criminals who are just incur­able. 
"How can you say that it is justice when people who live day-to-day have to pay for someone to stay in prison when that person might kill someone else or their kids or in some instances may have already killed someone in their family," said Molloy. 
We need to have a punish­ment that fits the crime. Some­on.e who makes the moral choice to commit this crime for­feits his right to live, according to Malloy. 
"Only for murder is the death penalty applicable and those who commit this crime deserve to die," said Molloy. 
"Christians should not sup­port killing people in order to show that killing people is wrong," said John Yoder, pro­fessor of theology. "Through the cross Jesus showed us that the thing to do with our ene­mies is not to kill them," he continued. 
The general course of human rights has led to fewer and fewer executions, according to Yoder. 
"The death penalty is dis­criminatory. We don't kill all killers, we don't even kill most killers, those who have a lawyer with money don't get the death penalty," said Yoder. 
"The most heinous murder­ers are not sentenced to death," said Professor Robinson of the law school, "most are just shiftless wanderers com­mitting their second killing or their first killing during a rob­bery." 
"Can we achieve getting the most deserving people killed without discrepancies accord­ing to race, sex, or wealth?" he asked. 
A highly disproportionate amount of poor black males are killed and those black males who killed white victims were more likely to be sentenced to death than those who killed white victims, according to Robinson. 
"There's no such thing as absolute certainty in our law," said Michelle Borbe of Lewis Hall. Borbe listed the true de­
see PANEL I page 4 
"Winds of Change" occur at SMC 
By KILEY COBLE News Writer 
Saint Mary's sophomores are anticipating the "Winds of Change," this year's theme for Sophomore Parents Weekend (SPW), which begins today. 
"This year's theme is em­phasizing the fact that college students are changing while they are away from home," said Nancy Schwoyer, SPW chair­person. "And Saint Mary's is a good place to be at while you are changing because you can call Saint Mary's home as well." 
The song "Winds of Change" is performed by Russ Taft, a Christian Contemporary singer. The lyrics of the song were printed inside the invitations sent to the parents. 
According to Schwoyer, the SPW committee, the Alumnae Association, and the Counseling and Career Development Cen­ter worked together in arrang­ing an alumnae panel of speak­ers set for this weekend. This panel discussion will be open to all students and will take place in Madeleva Hall. 
"We figured sophomores would be interested in thinking about their future already, and the timing was great with the parents being here this week­end," said Schwoyer. 
Songs focusing on reflection and liturgical dancers are planned for the Saturday after­noon mass that is scheduled to commemorate the weekend. The mass will involve sopho­
mores and their parents in all committee has been busy 
capacities; such as readers and gift bearers. 
Almost 600 people are ex­pected to attend the Dinner Dance Saturday night at the Century Center. Dr. William Hickey, Saint Mary's President, Dr. Dorothy Feigl, Vice Presi­dent/Dean of Faculty. and Kaye Ferguson-Patton, Vice Presi­dent for College Relations, are the Senior Officers expected to attend. 
A seven to eight minute slide show will be shown during the dinner. The slides will include pictures of sophomores en­gaged in daily activities. The ing pictures of sophomores en­gaged in their daily routine for the past six weeks. 
"We wanted to let the parents know how we get the process o college accomplished. They just get reports sent home but they really don't know how we do it," said Schwoyer. 
The weekend will conclude Sunday morning with a conti­nental breakfast in Stapleton Lounge. 
"The parents will be able to grab breakfast and say good­bye to their daughters before they hit the road," said 
Schwoyer. 

-~ --------------------~ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, March 18, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

ND: Hon1e of the fair w-eather Irish 
Any visitor who might have been walking around campus yesterday might have figured that he had landed in the Irish capital of America. From the staggering number of peo­ple wearing green clothing yesterday, you would think nearly everyone on 
this campus is Irish. Too bad that during the other 364 days a year, we just don't act like it. 
Judging by how much we seem to care about Northern Ireland, it would seem like we're only interested in swilling green beer. 
Sure, there's the occasional campus lecture or speaker, and the Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds will be here to speak at graduation. There's even a group on campus dedicated to "awareness" of the situation. 
Unfortunately, we're not aware. Maybe it's the fault of The Observer for not writing enough about the issue, or the administration for not bringing in more speakers. Myself, I think we're Irish when it's convenient or fun. 
For the completely uninformed, the Irish Republican Army, along with Ulster Catholics want to unify Northern Ireland with the rest o the country. Protestants, fearing persecution in a united Ireland want British rule to continue. 
Last week, the IRA used mortars to bomb London's Heathrow Airport, not once, but sev­eral times. Although the explosives were duds, they managed to scare the British and disrupt travel. 
At the recent meetings of Sinn Fein, the IRA's political arm, Gerry Adams and other leaders refused to make a statement to renounce vio­lence. That same concession brought the Palestinians into peace talks with the Israelis. 
On the other hand, the British have done a great deal to incite Irish hatred over the years. One example is shown in the recent movie In the Name of the Father, which details the story of Gerry Conclon, an Irishman wrongly impris­oned for a pub bombing. 
Whichever side is right, one thing is clear: the violence must end. The conflict in Ulster has a terrible cost in terms of human lives-3,100 people. 
Sure it's a highly complex issue, but don't tell me that there's nothing we can do. Why haven't we, as students, petitioned President Clinton, the British government, or Gerry Adams? 
The Student Senate thought it had an influ­ence over NBC when Sinead O'Connor made her statement on Saturday Night Live,. Why haven't they urged an end to the killing? 
It's ironic that a student body who has devot­ed so much time and effort toward the noble projects of the Center for Social Concerns does so little to work for justice in Northern Ireland. 
If we were even half as interested about the innocent Irish and British people who are being killed as a result of this conflict as we are as about the rights of the unborn, we might accomplish something. 
It's a good time celebrating St. Patrick's Day here at Notre Dame, but after the party's all over, no one gives a damn about Ireland-even at the moment when there's the greatest chance to begin to end the conflict. 
Erin go bragh. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
JUDAY'S STAFF 
News Production Laura Ferguson Kira Hutchinson Ed Imbus Bridgette Farrell Vivian Gembara Accent 
Sports Bevin Kovalik Tom Schlidr Graphics Viewpoint Chris Mullins 
Suzy Fry Mike Rimbert Lab Tech Business Eric Ruethling 
Michael Martin David Clairmont 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

John Lucas Managing Editor 
Economists say inflation worries are overblown 
NEW YORK These days, about the only thing inflated is anxi­ety. 
Many Wall Street traders, investors and even homeowners have been acting as if inflation is a 500-pound gorilla about to stomp out their invest­ments. 
But a growing number of economists say it's time for the inflation fretters to come down to earth ­along with the interest rates they have pushed sharply higher. 
Due to anxious financial traders, long-term inter­est rates have jumped one-half percentage point so far this year -and the higher rates have rattled everyone from mutual-fund investors to prospec­tive homeowners. 
A surge in economic growth in late 1993 initially 
triggered the anxiety. The potential inflation sign L------------------------~ 
led some to question the prevailing notion that con­sumer prices will rise around 3 percent in 1994 for the third consecutive year. 
Then, on Feb. 4, the Federal Reserve Bank decided to push up a key short-term interest rate for the first time in five years -with the stated purpose of keeping infla­tion pressures in check. 
In theory, the central bank action should help keep a lid on long-term rates. That's because bond buyers who are confident that the Fed will control inflation presum­ably would accept lower yields for committing their money over a long period of time. 
But it didn't turn out that way. Instead, bond traders busily searched for evidence to confirm the Fed's sus­picions about looming price pressures in the economy. said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at First Interstate 
Columbia crew comes home successful 
CAPE CANAVERAL 
Astronauts on one of the longest flights in space shut­tle history conceded Thursday it was time to return to Earth -even if it meant landing 57 minutes shy of an endurance record. Columbia was due to touch down on the Kennedy Space Center runway at 8:09 a.m. Friday­13 days, 23 hours and 16 minutes after blasting off March 4 just a few miles away. That's 57 minutes shy of the longest shuttle flight to date, by Columbia last fall. An extra orbit -which takes about 90 minutes --'-would give this mission the endurance record, but that prospect faded as meteorologists forecast good weather for a Friday morning landing at Kennedy. 
'Schindler's List" used to educate 
BEVERLY HILLS 
It was financed by Hollywood, filmed in Poland and revolves around Nazi Germany. Now focus on Dade County, Fla., to see the evolving story of "Schindler's List." There, in the nation's fourth-largest school dis­trict, high school students by the thousand are seeing the Steven Spielberg movie to learn about the Holocaust and each other. Some 13,000 students of the Miami-based district eventually will see "Schindler's List" as part of an ambitious social studies program. Thousands of California high schoolers will be invited to screenings, too, through a statewide plan to be announced next month. When Spielberg set out to make "Schindler's List," he hoped his film would be instructive, too. His story of German businessman Oskar Schindler's quest to save more than 1,100 concentration-camp Jews has sur­passed the moviemaker's expectations. Universal Pictures quickly ran out of 30,000 "Schindler's List" study guides. 
NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, March 1B.
Friday, March 18 
Accu-Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Atlanta Baltimore Boston
~~~a4~(f ~ &£1 
Chicago
S~~;e~ T-~t~~s ;,~;ri~~ ·~~~·~:· ~~-=. Sunny Cloudy
Rain Pf. Cloudy 
Colombus 
C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc.
Via Associated Press GraphicsNel 
Inflated fears 
Despite little evidence of inflation pressures in the economy, the fear of inflation has triggered a selloff in the Treasury bond market that has driven interest rates sharply higher this year. Many economists 
say the worries are unwarranted. 30-year Treasury bond yield 
:%~ . _1~:;~ 1~ 
I' 
I? ~1\. ~~ 
1
6 
' ~~ 

I
I 

;fil 

,· 'l
5 4 





J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M 
Source: U.S. Labor Dept. AP 
Bancorp in Los Angeles. 
Because the initial spike in bond yields pushed up mortgages rates, people have hurried to purchase hous­es before rates go any higher, contributing to a home­buying boomlet. 
In addition, investors in U.S. government and mort­gage-backed securities cashed out $1.94 billion from mutual funds in the five weeks ended March 9 -nearly 2 percent of total assets, according to AMG Data Services, a fund-flow tracking firm based in Arcata, Calif. 
Driving investors' fears is the knowledge that further sharp rate rises on new securities could hurt the value of bonds already bought. 
Reagan 'steamed' by North comments 
RICHMOND 
Former President Ronald Reagan jumped into the Virginia Senate race Thursday, saying he was "getting pret­ty steamed" over what he said were false statements by Republican candi­date Oliver North. North said political opponents had made "blatant and intentional misrepresentations of things I have said" in order to secure 
· the letter from Reagan, "a president that I revere and admire." Reagan's comments came in an exchange of letters with former Nevada Sen. Paul Laxalt, who sup­ports North's GOP opponent, former Reagan budget chief James C. Miller III. Reagan accused North of lying about the Iran-Contra scandal, but he stopped short of endors­ing Miller in the race for the seat held by Democratic U.S. Virginia's Republican senator, John Warner sai~ No_rth should not be running for the Senate because of his cnm­inal convictions. 
Michael Jackson's mother testifies 
LOS ANGELES 
Michael Jackson's mother testified Thursday for about an hour before a grand jury investigating allegations the entertainer sexually molested a 13-year-old boy.Katherine Jackson would not say what she told the Los Angeles County grand jury. She told reporters that she believes her son is innocent. Jackson on Wednesday criticized investigators for "harassment of my beloved mother." Some of the alleged molestation were said to have occurred while Jackson was living with his parents. Jackson claims he is innocent and has not been charged with any crime. The boy, now 14, settled a civil lawsuit against Jackson for a reported $15 million. He claimed Jackson, 35, molested him for five months in 1993. 
Inflation* 
04% 0.3 
2
0. 
0.1 
0.0 

J FMAMJJASONDJ F ·u.s. consumer price index, monthly figures. 
FRONTS: 
.........-r....a....a....~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure ~ ~ ,.-1\
H L B&'S:Icn:J 0~8¥ ~c........!. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. ClOUDY CLOUDY VI A SOC/llted Press
.. 
42  75  Dallas  78  60  New Orleans  76  54  
48  33  Denver  70  37  New York  46  31  
41  28  Los Angeles  74  55  Philadelphia  47  33  
50  28  Miami  82  65  Phoenix  82  60  
47  28  Minneapolis  52  28  St. Louis  66  41  

-~---------~ -----­
Friday, March 18, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
Irish celebration 
The drummer of the band Roadrunner and the Acme Do It Yourself Horn Kit entertained students at the St. Pat's Day celebration last night in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Kurczewski: Poland faces change 
By LAUREN AIMONETTE 
News Writer 
In 1989 the Communist party in Poland disappeared, leaving the Polish Parliament with complete sovergeinity. In 1992, this parliament voted to limit its own power, introducing into the constitution the idea of sep­aration of powers, according to Jacek Kurczewski in a lecture yesterday. 
The Helsinki agreements, explained Kurczewski, and the concurrent emergence of the "Basket of Human Rights," marked the beginning of democracy in Poland. 
"The very emergence of soli­darity is impossible to take into account without considering the human rights aspect, " Kur­czewski said. 
Using this argument, Kur­czewski declared that the legal shaping of these agreements were not an accident and helped establish a trade union freedom. 
Looking into the working of democracy in Poland today, Kurczewski said he would "try to assess to what degree democracy under the rule of law fits." 
To do this he created a list of ten essential elements of rule of law and argued that Poland was in the process of meeting all of them. 
First, Kurczewski stated that a nation's stress on human rights should be incorporated into its new constitution's as a bill of rights. 
Second, there must be an emphasis on the division of power. Also, constitutional courts must be given the last word on the interpretation of laws. There must be a democ­ratization of parliamentary par­ticipation, encompassing both democratic elections and repre­sentation. 
The judicial experience must be open to all, allowing every­one full access to the courts. According to Kurczewski, hu­man rights must be constitu­tionally guaranteed and the machinery of justice democra­tized. 
Kurczewski's list demanded parliamentary democracy, the development of freed powers, including freedom of the press, and finally, the development of "proper social structure." 
Kurczewski clarified his last item by explaining the need for the "reconstruction of civil so­ciety." He declared his support for the middle class and cited 
I,-:]9:;:93:-:;::Th-e-;::-0;--l"e-;G::-a-;,de-n-;:-Re-;sla-ur-an-:-ls-----------------------------, middle claSS ideals as essential for democratic society. The problem with meeting this need is partly based in the degree of power held by the constitutional courts. Kur-
HERE'S ACOURSE 
czewski explained that Poland was previously under a "verti­cal dual organization," with the Communist party's power tri­umphing over the constitutional power of the Parliament. 
Poland, according to Kur­czewski, is a democratic state which has undergone three stages of political change. 
In its first stage, Kurczewski explained, the nation was un­der the German concept of rule, with the party as the authority completely in power. Poland then entered a second stage where the Parliament declared the rule of law by majority vote. 
Poland is currently in the third stage of development, compiling an international rule of laws, a world of human rights. "This international rule allows citizens to be indepen­dent of their individual gov­ernments in the area of human rights," concluded Kurczewski. 
"Democracy works only when it encompasses every­body," said Kurczeswski as he discussed external and internal threats to democracy in Poland. 
Despite the threat of possible invasion by neighboring coun­tries and the instability of mid­dle class social structure within Poland , Kurczewski seemed hopeful that democracy would survive in Poland. 
Kurczewski's lecture was sponsored by the Kellogg Insti­tute. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position:
THAT COMBINES 
SMC BOG Beat Writer 
Call Beth Regan @284-4453 or
ITALJAN AND 
631-4540 
ECONOMICS 
.~1 
lI I, 
·· ~~ ;i
//. ~~ I 
..··· 
:6b 
CAN 
EAT SPAGHETTI, GARDEN SALAD, & BREADSTICKS
$5.95 
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
I 
.. 
\
l 
....,,,_
.........,, 
"-~-..~.
I 
i 

VIEWS FROM THE BLUFF
~l~~ ~UESi~;~:~:\_ 
DUQUESNE'S 1994 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS: *TRANSFERABLE COURSES* *START DATES MAY THRU JULY* 
Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dame or St. Mary's 
student or staff m~m_ber, just sh~w us your ID and we'll give you all-you­can-eat spaghetti w1th your cho1ce of marinar·a, tomato or meat sauce. 
*ACCELERATED SESSIONS* 
Plus unlimited fresh garden salad and ~.. warm garlic breadsticks. It's all --,r-c,~~ 
Ask about our Science and Language Courses 
just $5.95. And you don't have 
OliNf. 
to be a math major to f1gure " 
Registration is EASY ­
out that that's a great deal. 
by FAX, phone, mail, or in person
ITAI.IAN Hf~TAl IH/\N I 
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853
WHERE At.t.THE BEST Or llAIY IsYoLrRs· 
FOR YOUR COMPLETE SUMMER 1994 
•Opposite University Park Mall, 217-6503. 
INFORMATION/APPLICATION PACKAGE 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 14, 1994 
Sex 
continued from page1 
(provide) an exposure to some of the teachings of the Church and an honest conversation with other students about real experience," said McDermott. 
The Keeping the Faith Forum returns this year after being absent from campus ministry's program during the 1992-93 school year. Planning for the event began early last fall, Mc­Dermott said. 
Phelps 
continued from page 1 
Dame. She is also the first woman to receive three de­grees from Notre Dame, mak­ing her the first female "Triple Domer." 
"The book is about so much more than being a coach's wife, it's about the definitions and identities imposed on women in male-dominated areas of society," she said. 
It was her transcendence of these definitions which she credited with awakening the femininity of her personality. 
"The feminists I thought I knew about were divorced 
women living somewhere on the coast alone. They were not models of how I wanted to live my life. They were certainly not women who had three chil­dren or husbands whom they were considering keeping. If you were someone's wife, you developed your identity just as a wife with little room for individuality," she said. 
"The setting I found at Notre Dame as the coach's wife was Patriarchy Squared. It was sports controlled by men, and at Notre Dame, it was part of the Catholic Church, also con­trolled by men," she said. 
Finding a feminist identity which did not betray her iden­tity as a wife and mother but would still allow her to survive in this patriarchal Notre Dame sports environment was her goal. 
"The setting of "The Coach's Wife" is of interest to people who have nothing to do with Notre Dame because the envi­ronment I encountered at Notre Dame serves as a metaphor for patriarchy at large," she said. 
Phelps applied as a transfer student and enrolled in the col­lege of Arts and Letters in 1972 when Notre Dame, being among the last remaining all­male schools, "succumbed to pressures to admit women." 
She read from a passage re­counting how she was singled out as the only female student in several classes and asked her opinion "as a woman." 
She recalled how she would 
not correct her professors who 
addressed her as "Miss Phelps" 
rather than "Mrs. Phelps" be­
cause of her painful awareness 
of the idea that very few 
women attended Notre Dame 
and certainly no married 
women attended Notre Dame. 
Another passage she read re­told her struggle of the reconciliation of the roles of a coach's wife, a mother, and a Ph.D. She spoke of her frustra­tion over being addressed or referred to as "Mrs. Digger" when her merit as an individ­ual was undeniable. 
The final passage Phelps 
read from her book retold how 
she used her tenure as the 
fountainhead for her moral 
courage. She spoke publicly at 
the Hesburgh Library Audito­
rium on the ordination of 
women and sexism inherent in 
Catholicism. 
The forum opens this Sunday evening with University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy and Professor Maura Ryan speaking on the wisdom of the Church and how sexuality is theologi­cally a part of us. 
The discussion continues on Wed., March 23 when a panel of rectors and students address the issue as it affects the indi­vidual at Notre Dame. 
The Keeping the Faith series will conclude on Sun., March 27 when some current and previous Notre Dame students discuss how people are trying to integrate their lives to com-
She stressed that she spoke not as an expert, but as an in­sider, a member of the Church, who loved and intended to re­main a part of the Church though pained by its sexism and determined to reform it. 
Her preparation and presen­tation of the speech made her realize, she said, that she had traded the mini-skirted, "lovely wife" image of herself for a portrait of a scholar in acade­mic robes who did not have to "sell out" or abandon the woman's image of a devoted wife and mother. 
She ended with the assertion that she could, because of Notre Dame, "talk about the soul without being embar­rassed." 
bine church teaching with real­ity. 
All discussions will be held in the LaFortune Ballroom from 7-9 p.m. 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
terminants of whether or not someone is given the death penalty as sex, race, the race of the victim, where the murder was committed, the races of the jury members, and the political climate of the time. 
"If we kill all the killers, should we rape all the rapists? Should we cut Jeffrey Dahmer up? With the death penalty, we're perpetrating the same thing we are trying to elimi­nate," said Borbe. 

Pat-
If this before 21, what will tomorrow be like? 
0 
a 

Comments from fellow Notre Dame students who have seen David: 
·Absolutely an excellent presentation -­"Inspirational and educational.· one of the best I've ever seen.· "Excellent, bring him back.· 
"I laughed, I cried, I'd see it again and again. It was better than CATS! "Quite a coup to get someone Seriously--Awesome" this good to speak.· 
·A presenter and presentation I will "David was fabulous and entertaining remember forever.· with a clear and important message." 
Sponsored by The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education and Students Against Driving Drunk 
---------------------------------~------------------------~----~----------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, March 18, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Soldiers say they fired at mosque Pilots drop supplies to 
By KARIN LAUB ing to keep panicky Arabs at there was no one there at the 
Associated Press bay because they feared they time." Cubans on Rock Islands 
were about to be attacked by They also acknowledged that 
By CATHERINE WILSON
JERUSALEM extremists. they prevented the speedy 
Associated Press 
Contradicting their superior "We were certain the Arabs evacuation of casualties by officers, two soldiers testified were shooting (inside the locking the exit closest to the 
MIAMI
Thursday that they fired direct­mosque). In order to stop them mosque to protect themselves 
ly at a mosque's doorway and from reaching us, we fired at from being trampled to death stranded on desolate rocky out­not just in the air when they the door .... I fired three bullets, by the hysterical crowd. 
croppings in the Bahamas, free heard the pandemonium of the something like that," Drori "We made their way longer, from communism but caught byHebron massacre last month. said. but we also made our lives geography and diplomacy farThey also said the Jewish set­Palestinian witnesses have longer," said Yosef. "They 
from their destination in the
tler blamed for the massacre said at least one worshiper was would have trampled us to United States. 
did not enter the area with the killed and others wounded by death. One little boy who was 
The recent arrivals on Cay
weapon that the army says was soldiers in the mosque area wounded in the leg fell and was Sal Bank are part of a floatingused to gun down Muslims during the chaos of massacre. trampled to death." 
stream of people fleeing Cubawhile they prayed Feb. 25, rais­The army has said no Pales­Yosef said they stopped 
at twice last year's pace, the
ing the possibility he had an tinians were shot by soldiers at shooting when a wounded man biggest wave since the Marie!
accomplice. the mosque, and Yosef and staggered out of the mosque. Florida.
boat lift in 1980. 
Appearing at an Israeli Drori insisted their chest-high The five-member commission It's illegal for civilians to fly
"It's a developing crisis,'.' said 
inquiry, Sgts. Kobi Yosef and shots did not hit anyone. Asked heard testimony from 14 sol­the Cubans to the United
Jose Basulto of Brothers to the
Niv Drori said they fired into a how he could be sure, Yosef diers Thursday. The hearings, States, so the volunteers fly
Rescue, a Miami-based group
door leading to the mosque try-said: "Somebody could have which began March 8, are their small planes 10 feet above 
of volunteer pilots who have
been hurt if he stood there. But being boycotted by Palestinian Cay Sal's bumpy airstrip, shov­

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents A Holy Cross Memorial Concert* 
Babette Hierholzer 
Guest pianist from Berlin, Germany 
performing music by 
W. A. Mozart, Mendelssohn Schubert and Robert Schumann 
Sunday, March 20 2:00p.m. 

Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
Admission $5 General, $2 Seniors and Students 


IHI@@IP~ 
SHOOT OUT 
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 7:00PM JACCARENA 
({J)NJE a({J)N.,({J)NJE CC({J)N'lrlE§'II' 
• GAMES TO 15 PTS. 
• SINGLE ELIMINATION 'lfllll!RIEIE IP<CDIIN'lr ~ IFIRIEIE 'lrllll!R({J)W CC({J)N'lrlE§'If 
• 
HEAD TO HEAD COMPETITION 

• 
45 SECOND SHOOTING PERIOD 

• 
DOUBLE ELIMINATION 


REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS DEADLINE: FRIDAY, MARCH 18 
~~ 

Weekend Special: 
Buy any regular size pizza at regular price and get a small one topping pizza for free! 
Good Now Thru Sunday CALL NOW! 

become the refugees' primary
witnesses, who claim the panel ing out tents, blankets, food 
source of necessities. 
will not be impartial. rations and water to the
Cay Sal, Anguilla and other
Three guards said Thursday refugees.
tiny islands in the chain about
the settler blamed in the mas­"We drop them anything that
45 miles from Cuba offer hope
sacre, Baruch Goldstein, we think would be absolutely
to Cubans fleeing economic col­
entered the Tomb of the necessary to sustain life on the
lapse and deprivation. Getting
Patriarchs carrying an M-16 island," Basulto said Wednes­
there, often on makeshift rafts,
and not the Galil assault rifle day. "We can see their faces
is slightly less dangerous than
the army says was used in the when we go down, and they're
crossing the treacherous Gulf
killings. very happy to see us."
Stream in a 90-mile trip to 
The refugees are a Bahamian 




-~ -------~---. 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 18, 1994 
Reputed Philly mob boss, others indicted 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIII 
Main Sign-Ups: Today, 11 am to 1 pm 5:30pm to 7 pm 
1st Floor LaFortune; $7 per team 
Late Sign-Ups: Saturday & Sunday 1 pm to 4pm 
The Great Hall in O'Shaugnessy, $10 per team 
unidentified sources told the Philadelphia Daily News. 
The charges marked the third time a Philadelphia boss has been indicted since Angelo Bruno was shot to death as he sat in his car with Stanfa in 1980. Bruno was known as the "Docile Don" during his rela­tively peaceful 21-year reign. 
Phillip "Chicken Man" Testa and nine others were indicted in 1981 and Nicodemo "Little Nicky" Scarfo and 18 others were indicted in 1988. 
After each previous indict­ment, the mob reorganized and authorities expect it will try to do so again, said Bob C. Reut­ter, special agent in charge of the FBI's Philadelphia office. 
"We are prepared to deal with that in whatever form it takes," Reutter said. 
Authorities say Stanfa, 53, as­
'"'"AS YOU WISH'' 
I M P 0 R T S 
10-50% OFF~ 
Jewelry, Accessories, & Clothing
from 
Guatemala Nepal Peru Brazil Mexico India 
10 a.m.-5 p.m. LaFortune Rm. 108 
(near telephones) 
HAPP 
21ST 
AMY! 
Love, Mom, Les, &Heidi 
sumed control of the Philadel­phia-southern New Jersey mob about three years ago. 
He filled a void left after Scarfo and others were con­victed of racketeering and re­lated charges. 
Authorities say the mob war­fare in Philadelphia pits Stan­fa's larger faction against Mer­lino's Young Turks, who are mostly sons and nephews of Scarfo-era mobsters. 
Stanfa, a Sicilian who immi­grated to New York in 1964, first joined the Gambino crime family in New York, according to the Pennsylvania Crime Commission. 
He spent nearly eight years in prison for perjury after refusing to tell police anything about Bruno's slaying. 
By TED DUNCOMBE 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Law enforcers struck a major blow against one of the nation's most violent Mafia families Thursday, arresting its reputed boss and 11 underlings after months of bloody warfare. 
Teams fanned out across Philadelphia and southern New Jersey to make the arrests be­fore dawn, a day after the in­dictments of 24 people. Three men -:-all allegedly low-level ­remained fugitives; the others were either already in prison or surrendered. 
The indictment alleges that reputed mob boss John Stanfa ordered the others to commit murders, attempted murders, kidnapping, extortions, loan­sharking, gambling and arson. 
Over the past 15 months, the struggle for control of a multi­million-dollar crime business stretching from Philadelphia to Atlantic City has escalated into street warfare between factions loyal to Stanfa and those aligned with Joseph "Skinny Joey" Merlino and a group called the Young Turks. At least five men have been killed and five others wounded. 
"This is a tremendous blow to the organization," said Joel M. 
Erin Ryan 
Happy 21st B-Day! 
This is not just a face only a sister could love! 
Stay Sweet! Don't Change! 
-Julie 
Friedman, chief of the orga­nized crime division of the U.S. Attorney's Office. 
"If you had a corporation, I would say you wouldn't be able to function too well right now." 
The indictment named all the top men in the mob family, plus six "soldiers,·· and 11 others who carry out mob work but have not been inducted into the family. 
Among those indicted were Salvatore Avena, Stanfa's at­torney, whose office was wire­tapped because authorities be­lieved it was used to hide mob business under the guise of client privilege. 
Avena at one point allegedly said he would "ask for the badge," or seek family mem­bership. Once, to assure Stanfa he was loyal. Avena said, "If you want me to put my brains in the toilet, I'll put my brains in the toilet," according to the indictment. 
Two defendants, John Veasey and Philip Colletti, were identi­fied by U.S. Attorney Michael R. Stiles as cooperating witnesses. 
Veasey, who survived four bullets in his head and chest in January, was one of the FBI's key witnesses and has con­fessed to participating in two murders and an attempted murder on Stanfa's orders, 


..... zcu:w ______..... 
~--­
Friday, March 18, 1994 
The Observer • YUGOSLAVIA NEWS page 7 
Serbs, Muslims sign agreement Bosnian Muslims, Croats 
By ROBERT H. REID 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
Serbs and Muslims gave Sarajevo hope Thursday for an end to the city's crippling 23­month siege, agreeing to open a road to the outside world. 
The U.N.-brokered agree­ment, which also links up di­vided sectors of the capital to civilian traffic, is the latest and perhaps most important sign that the Bosnian war is winding down. The accord is to take ef­fect Wednesday. 
Still, officials on both sides warned the city was far from free or united, and some resi­dents expressed the skepticism borne of nearly two years of bloodletting among neighbors. 
"The siege will not be over until all citizens can be trans­ported freely," Hasan Mura-
We knew you were a Cowboys fan, but wow! 
Happy birthday Stefanielhelian! 
tovic, the Bosnian government's minister for relations with the United Nations, said after sign­ing the agreement at Sarajevo airport. 
But, he acknowledged, it was "the first very small step to­ward the (full) opening of Sara­jevo." 
Momcilo Krajisnik, speaker of the self-styled Bosnian Serb parliament, said the agreement would improve conditions in the city. But he refused to say whether and when Sarajevo would be united. 
In Washington, meanwhile, 
U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher cautioned Thurs­day that an overall peace agreement to end 23 months of fighting is "a ways down the road. That agreement does not exist." 
But he said that the United States hopes that an agreement to be d Friday in Washing­ton to create a Croat-Muslim federation in Bosnia would help push the peace process for­ward. 


Washington and Moscow are trying to end the Bosnian war by creating a Muslim-Croat fed­eration that later would em­brace Bosnian Serbs, who have seized 70 percent of Bosnia's territory. 
The diplomats envision Bosnia forming a confederation with Croatia as a strategic bal­ance to Serbia, the strongest state in the region. 
I 
ready to sign constitution 
By DONALD ROTHBERG 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The United States is prepared to offer political and financial support to bolster the Croatian­Muslim federation being formed in Bosnia, Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Thursday. 
Leaders of the two factions in the three-sides ethnic war that has raged nearly two years in the former Yugoslavia will sign a constitution Friday for the federation that will unite Bosnian Croats and Muslims. They also will sign a documents setting out principles for that entity to become linked to Croatia. 
Christopher met with Presi­dent Franjo Tudjman of Croatia and then with President Alija Izetbegovic and pledged U.S. support to each. 
He said that at the signing 
~ 
-: ~ ,_,., rt~'\..fllr Chinese -American ~ . '-'n z;.n t Restaurant & 
~.U A 'L Cocktail Lounge 
~· n ,J.. Authentic Szechuan,
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ·:~ ..$4.25 Dinners starting \lt ..._.$5.95 Voted Best 
Oriental Rcswurant 
Banquet rooms ~available for up to 200 
in Michiana by130 Dixie Way S.,.South Bend 
Mic:hiana Now
(next to Randall's Inn) 
'--·-----­
....,; 
ceremony, President Clinton will spell lout "a number of the concrete steps the United States is prepared to take." 
Tudjman made clear that what Croatia needs the most is money. 
"We look to the United States of America being a partner in the solution of all our problems, especially economic ones," he said. 
At the start of his meeting with lzetbegovic, Christopher said the United States would help the Muslims "get the very best agreement they can with the Serbs." 
Izetbegovic stood firm on the long-standing Muslim demand that the Serbs return land they have taken in the war. 
Christopher said that because of the improved situation in Bosnia, "the time has come" for the United States to make plans to open an embassy in Sarajevo. 
"That's on the drawing board now and we hope it can be ac­complished in the near future," he said. 
In an appearance before a House Appropriations sub­committee Christopher called the federation "a very historic and significant agreement." 
Concentration in Philosophy, Politics and Economics 
PPE is an interdisciplinary concentration for students majoring in the Philosophy, Government or Econom1cs departments. The concentration consists of a core seminar entitled JUSTICE SEMINAR. three one credit colloquia taken over three semesters. and three other courses chosen from a concentration list. Limited to 25 students per year. PPE stresses careful reading, discussion and writing. PPE is concerned with exploring the theoretical issues which connect these three disciplines. 
PPE Committee 
Neil ~elaney-Dept. of Philosophy, E. A. Goerner-Dept. of Government, David O'Connor-Dept. of 
Philosophy, John Roos-Dept. of Government, Jennifer Warlick-Dept. of Economics, Charles 
Silber-Dept. of Economics. Phil Mirowski-Dept. of Economics. 
Students interested in the program should contatct Professor Roos in 424 Decio. 
631-7556 Applications for the Fall 1994 Justice seminar are due in Professor Roos' office by March 30. 

Kym Worthy 
Assistant Prosecutor Detroit, Michigan 
Hesburgh Auditorium 
(in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies} 
Saturday, March 19, 1994 8:00p.m. 
(free admission} 
Kym Worthy '86 was the head prosecutor in the Malice Green murder trial. Malice Green was an unemployed steel worker from Detroit beat to death by three Detroit police officers. Jv:ls: Worthy ~as also the erosecutor in a murder trial where the defendant was convicted of ktllmg a _soldier who had JUSt rett~rned from Desert Storm. When a contract killer gunned down a stxth-grade school teacher m front ofher students, Ms. Worthy was once again called upon to p~os~cute the case. She is ~amboyant, charismatic, and she wins cases. She has a 90% conv,1ctton rate and the Washmgton Post called her a major player in the Detroit Prosecutors office. 
All are welcome. 
Sponsored by the Black Law Students Association, Notre Dame Law School, and the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
C~0?9T~CkS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD 
We Deliver to Your Dorm! 
Mon-Thurs ll a.m. -9 p.m. 
Fri-Sat ll a.m.-10 p.m. 
East Location:
$6 minimum 
525 N. Eddy St.
$1 service charge for 
South Bend, IN
orders under $15 
232-1177 Special • CtiOPSTiCKS • Special 
i 10°/o Off Total Purchase : 
L-------------------------------------------------~ 
GREEDY
2L 
MICHAEL J. FOX 2:15, 4:45, 7:30, 10:00 lPG-!Jl 
GUARDING TESS 
SHIRLEY MacLAINE IPG-131 
1:45,4:15, 6:45,9:15 
---~---~-~~ ~ ------__.._...------~-......._.------~-------,
...--------~--------~~--~---------~ ~­
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 18, 1994 
Mass protests, violence in France target job plan 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
Nationwide protests against a government jobs policy degenerated into rampages Thursday that left dozens of people injured and hundreds arrested. 
Youths battled police in nearly a dozen cities where marches were held. Police used flares and tear gas to try to quell rioters, mostly break­away groups disrupting the main marches. 
Conservative Premier Edouard Balladur, who caved in when faced with previous mass protests on other issues, has stuck by a plan to offer entry levels that include below-minimum wages. 
At least 32 police were injured in clashes in the French capital, where about 35,000 students and workers held their third march this month. Casualty figures for the youths were not immediately available. Some 200 people were arrested in the capital. 
About 3,200 police moni­tored the main march in Paris. Most marchers were peaceful, but hundreds of masked youths smashed store win­dows, hurled rocks at riot police, overturned cars and attacked news photographers. 
Up to 1,000 "very violent ... hooligans and delinquents" joined the march, sometimes attacking peaceful demonstra­tors, Interior Minister Charles Pasqua told a news confer­ence. 
Police reinforcements were sent to Nantes in Brittany, where 800 youths broke shop windows, set up fiery barri­cades and charged security forces with rocks from a work site. 
Police repeatedly charged the group with volleys of tear gas. Clashes went on late into the night. About 15 police and an unknown number of youths were injured. 
In Lyon, rock-throwing youths injured two police. Police threw flares and tear gas trying to disperse the crowd of more than 10,000. 
Marches drew about 20,000 in Toulouse, 15,000 in Litle, 10,000 in Bordeaux and 7,000 in Besancon, southeast France. Processions de­generated into violence as they ended, leading to many 
arrests. 
TI'"()()P ~()tr-e uame 
VI2~§Dn§: 
The Troop ND Campus-Wide Talent Show 
TONJGHT!!! 
CWailiirlfjton dial£ 
7:30pm 
T__.ul~ 
~ff()__.dable 
Livin!! 
Make your next move to Hickory Village and discover affordability, convenience and comfort. We'rejust minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, 
Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activities program that includes team sports, free aerobics classes, and much more. 
Efficiencies from $280 1-Bedrooms from $295 2-Bedrooms from $355 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free Aerobics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 

lJ_'llJ_-1 SSt) 
rtUCKORij j 
VlLLA~E~ 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
~,~ ..~~~'!~-~~~~-~··-~:Ft'•\':'~:d.lfr!.~:!';."':-~.:~-:'"'1:'""':'"'
I 
" 
}. 
~ 
,f. 1; 
r 
-~ 
7-' 
f: 
~ 
' 
c 
J 
f: j:
J; 
f 
~ 
~ 
... 
~ 
"' 
.. 
~ 
t 
~­
·;: 
'' 
Peace hinges on rebel demands 
By LAWRENCE KOOT­NIKOFF Associated Press 
LACANDON JUNGLE, Mexico 
Mexico's Indian rebels will go back to war unless all their demands the government has agreed to are carried out, the guerrillas' chief spokesman said from his jungle stronghold. 
The fundamental demand is the complete overhaul of the country's authoritarian political system leading to true democ­racy, the man known only as Subcomandante Marcos said in an interview on Wednesday. 
"If a peaceful transition (to democracy) is not guaranteed, then we will again see war as the only option," Marcos said as guerrillas from the Zapatista National Liberation Army strummed guitars and sang revolutionary songs at their mountaintop hideout. 
The best the government can hope for is an "armed peace" until all promises of land reform and economic aid, roads, schools and hospitals for Mexico's impoverished Indian and peasant communities are met, he said. 
That prospect could compli­cate this year's Aug. 21 presi­dential election. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,CXXJ Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Dut-Of.Print Search Service -$2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
L------------------------·-­
Marcos said rebels won't sign a final treaty and will hold onto their armed positions in the mountains of the impoverished state of Chiapas until every last road and school is built. 
Marcos, smoking a pipe and wearing the black ski mask that has become his trademark, made the comments in an interview with The Associated Press and other reporters at an isolated Indian village whose identity was kept confidential as a condition of the meeting. 
Despite widespread guessing by government officials and the Mexican media, Marcos' identi­ty remains a mystery. 
Several hundred representa­tives from jungle communities are gathering here to pore over government peace proposals designed to end the New Year's Day revolt that left at least 145 dead before a government cease-fire on Jan. 12. 
Access to the village, four hours over a rutted dirt road from the nearest army check­point, is restricted by road­blocks manned by armed, uni­
formed and well-disciplined guerrillas. 
The revolt stunned the Salinas administration and the world. Rebels and a govern­ment peace envoy agreed to tentative peace proposals on March 2. But they must be approved by Zapatista sup­porters in remote Indian com­munities. 
Marcos said many Zapatistas don't trust President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. 
"It seems the government just wants to get out of the conflict with a promise, and go into the elections without these pres­sures," he said. 
He accused Salinas of "trying to buy off rebel leaders" and treating them like children. He said Salinas wanted a peace treaty in return for "a school here, a highway there." 
Marcos said the government had agreed to electoral reforms that were not part of its pub­lished promises -specifically removing the Federal Electoral Institute. 
~ 
;TurUe ~f4111Cree~ 
"Cfose, Comjorta6Ce, Convienent• 
•
Furnished studios 

•1 
& 2 bedroom apartments 

•
2 bedroom townhomes 

•1/1
0 mile from campus

•On 
city busline 

•
Laundry facility

•Outdoor 
pool & sand volleyball

•
24 hour maintenance 


'W~t~r you want to five 6y yourselfor with. friends, TU'l('TL'E Cl{_'E'E'l(fws th.e apartment for you!! 
272-8124 
MEET YOUR ARTS & LETTERS MAJOR
[ I 
DATE & TIME 
::i!l!lli~~ M.arr;_tJ 2Q, lll.IH 
7:00 • 8:00 p.m. 8:00 -9:00 p.m. 
Monfia~ Marr;_h 21 111.11.4 
4:30-5:30p.m. 5:00 -6:00 p.m. 6:00 -7:00 p.m. 6:00 -7:00 p.m. 7:00 -8:00 p.m. 
8:00 • 9:00 p.m. 
Tl!~~li~~ Mi!rr<fJ 22. lll!l.~ 
5:00 • 6:00 p.m. 5:00-6:00 p.m. 5:00 -6:00 p.m. 6:00 -7:00 p.m. 6:00 -7:00 p.m. 6:00 -7:00 p.m. 
7:00 • 8:00 p.m. 7:00-8:00 p.m. 
8:00 • 9:00 p.m. 8:00 -9:00 p.m. 
~~lia~~li~~ Mllrr;_fJ 23. 1/l.IM 
5:00 • 6:00 p.m. 5:00 -6:00 p.m. 5:00 -6:00 p.m. 6:00 -7:00 p.m. 
6:00 • 7:00 p.m. 
7:00 
• 8:00 p.m. 

7:00 
• 8:00 p.m. 


TtJurs!;la~ MarctJ 24 lll.94 
4:30 • 5:30 p.m. 
5:00 • 6:00 p.m. 
6:00 • 7:00 p.m. 7:00 -8:00 p.m. 7:00 -8:00 p.m. 7:00 -8:00 p.m. 8:00 -9:00 p.m. 8:00 -9:00 p.m. 
MA.lQB  ~  
PPE German and Russian  114 O'Shaughnessy 215A O'Shaughnessy  
..HOW TO CHOOSE A MAJOR.... African-American Studies Art, Art History & Design European Studies Government Latin American Studies  114 O'Shaughnessy 106 O'Shaughnessy 200 Riley Hall 109 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy  
Sociology Classical & Oriental Hesburgh Program History Communications & Theatre Medieval Studies Gender Studies Economics American Studies Science, Technology & Values  218 O'Shaughnessy 203A O'Shaughnessy 207 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 115 O'Shaughnessy 109 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 115 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 115 O'Shaughnessy  
Music CAPP Romance Languages Theology Film & Cultural Studies Anthropology Mediterranean & Mid. East.Studies  103 Crowley Hall 114 O'Shaughnessy 115 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 109 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 115 O'Shaughnessy  
Psychology Peace Studies Philosophy Soviet & European Studies English Education ALPP Philosophy/Literature  119 Haggar Hall 201 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 115 O'Shaughnessy 114 0' Shaughnessy 109 O'Shaughnessy 116 O'Shaughnessy 117 O'Shaughnessy  


Friday, March 18, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Community blocks rapist's release 
SPRING SALE 
By JEFF BARNARD Carter, scheduled for release She argued that state officials Associated Press in this high desert county of failed to follow the law that 10,000 residents in the far says inmates are to be paroled
March 17, 18, 19 & 20 
ALTURAS, Calif. northeastern corner of to the county where they were The governor wanted to exile California, is the latest to draw convicted and that they ignored 
Save 10 -40°/o on bikes, trainers, 
a paroled serial rapist to "the opposition from people who procedures for exceptions to most remote location possible." didn't want a paroled criminal that law. A hearing was set for
clothing, accessories and rollerblades 
The people of rural Modoc as a neighbor. Aprill. County thought otherwise. And Carter pleaded no contest in "All we want is to not have
THIS Is A SALE 
on Thursday, after hundreds 1982 to 23 counts of rape, him released on parole in rallied in front of the court­assault, burglary and attempted Modoc County," Sorensen said.
You WoN'T WANT To Miss! 
house, a judge ordered Melvin burglary in the San Francisco "Wherever else they take him Carter to remain behind bars. Bay Area. He confessed to as is fine, although we feel that
l~ Thurs 12,8 Fri 12.-6 
"He's got no business using many as 100 rapes, said rural counties should not be
BIKEQT Sat 10,4 Sun 12,4 
us as a garbage dump for all Alameda County Deputy District used in this fashion." their scum," telephone compa­Attorney Michael Roemer. "Well, we have miles and
603 N. Second St., Niles 
ny worker Art Fleenor said, Modoc County District miles and miles of long country 
SPECIALIS!J.S 
. T (616) 683..3100 
referring to Gov. Pete Wilson. Attorney Ruth Sorensen said roads," she added. "Our she got Superior Court Judge women are just as vulnerable Guy Martin Young out of the as university women in shower about 7 a.m. and con­Alameda County. I don't like vinced him the state might have this guy being anywhere, but acted improperly in choosing we are much less able to pro­
TUDE NT 
Modoc County for Carter's tect ourselves from this kind of release. thing." 
OVERNMENT 

Friday, March 18, 8p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Are you interested in helping to manage and account for $400,000? 
If you are a SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJOR who enjoys working with money and .people, STUDENT GOVERNMENT needs you 
Ingenious arrangements and
as the Student Body Assistant Treasurer. 
suavepe1onnances, wffh 
•Student Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body Treasurer 
selections ranging from 
Mozart to Ellington.
in disbursing funds for: 
Saint Marrs students $3*
Student Government 
Student Union Board SUNDAY, MARCH 20,7:30 P.M., CHURCH OF LORETTO
Halls 
A CONCERT CELEBRATING THE ISOTH ANNIVERSARY Clubs and Organizations 
OF SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
SOUTH BEND CHAMBER SINGERS • AVE MARIA 
This is in preparation for your becoming 
FEATURING THE MASS BY NORMAN DELLO JOIO
THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER 
ADMISSION FREE • DONATIONS WELCOME 
the following year. 
*Discounts available for SM's-ND communi tv. 

Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box 
•Applications are available in the Treasurer's office 
2nd floor LaFortune between 1 -5 p.m. 
office, located in GLaughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 
•Due on Thursday, March 24 by 4 p.m. 
p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and 
Discover orders by phone at 
•Any questions, contact Sally Oelerich at 631-7417 
219/284-462 6. 

Clinton's state facing dark days 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
They rode into Washington full of promise and vigor, star­ry-eyed Arkansans eager to change the federal bureaucracy overnight. 
But change is coming painful­ly slowly -and at a cost they never thought would be so high. 
"If you let it, it can really look dark sometimes," said Mike Gauldin, who was Gov. Bill Clinton's spokesman and now works at the Energy Depart­ment. 
Their mettle is being tested again, these old friends, asso­ciates and hangers-on who stood fast as Clinton survived the rough-and-tumble politics of Arkansas and an even nas­tier presidential campaign. 
Now, one of their own is go­ing home under a cloud. 
The Arkansas natives were shocked at the abrupt resigna­tion this week of Associate At­torney General Webster Hubbell, who came to Washing­ton with a reputation as one of the state's most respected lawyers. He returns to Arkansas after questions about his Little Rock law practice spilled over into the Whitewater affair. 
The departure, coming less than a year after the suicide of his likable former law partner, Vince Foster, is another re­minder of how tough Washing­ton can be on an outsider, the Arkansans say. 
Critics of the administration say Clinton created his own problems by relying on home state friends and allies ­"cronies" to the detractors ­to fill key Washington posts. Other Arkansans who have got­ten Clinton into hot water: Surgeon General Joycelyn El­ders, whose outspokenness has at times put her at odds with White House policy, and White House administrator David Watkins, a key figure in the travel office debacle a year ago. 
Clinton rails about the "poli­tics of personal destruction" in Washington. Foster, in a cryptic note found after his death, said ruining people is the "sport" of Washington. 
"I guess the rose-colored glasses have come off," sighed Craig Smith, who helped Clin­ton make political appoint­ments in Arkansas and has a similar job in the White House. 
A common complaint about Washington is that it is easier in Arkansas to know your ene­mies: They tell you who they are. 
"The people who are smiling in your face one minute are stabbing you in the back the next," Smith said. "Back home, it wasn't like that." 
Picking up on the theme, Chief of Staff Mack McLarty likes to say, "A friend is some­one who stabs you in the chest." 
The notion has made the Arkansans less trusting. 
"I find myself falling into the manipulative, vengeful, suspi­cious mode," Gauldin said. "And then I wake up and say, 'Good God, this is not what I'm about."' 
Said McLarty: "You've got to remember who you are, where you come from and why you came here in the first place." 
Another beef from Arkansans is the difficulty of making a dif­ference in the entrenched fed­eral bureaucracy. 
Nussbaum goes before Whitewater grand jury 
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Departing White House counsel Bernard Nussbaum testified four hours Thursday before a Whitewater grand jury while the special prosecu­tor urged Republicans not to hinder him with congressional hearings. 
GOP lawmakers had hoped for testimony as early as next week -as part of a previously scheduled hearing on the sav­ings and loan cleanup. But Banking Committee Chairman Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas, said he would reject Whitewater witnesses as irrel­evant to the House panel's business. 
President Clinton said anew that Congress "ought to do whatever it is they think is the right thing to do." But he added a brief negative remark about the historical cost of congressional investigations. 
Clinton said he had just read in a book that, in the early years of the nation, "a $40 mirror was bought for the White House that was bought in another country. And the Congress in the early 1800s spent several thousand dollars on hearings looking into this $40 mirror." 
White House Counsel Nussbaum, who announced his resignation under fire on March 5, said as he left the 
U.S. courthouse, "I've just testified before the grand jury. I've responded to every ques­tion they put to me." 
The grand jury is investigat­ing White House contacts with regulators who were dealing with the failed Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan, the thrift linked to the Whitewater land development and the Clintons. 
While Nussbaum testified, special counsel Robert B. Fiske Jr. was three blocks away at the Capitol meeting with three House Republicans: Minority Leader Bob Michel, Minority Whip Newt Gingrich and Jim Leach. 



' 
WASHINGTON 
Deputy Solicitor General 
William Bryson, a 16-year 
Justice Department veteran; 
was picked Thursday to serve 
Reno told her weekly ·news conference that she had transferred Bryson to th~''post of deputy associate attorney general and named him act­.hlg associate effective"when• ·Hubbell departs "in the next 
few weeks.': 
Reno wo"uld not he more 
specific about Hubbell's 
departure date, saying only 
"that date will be consistent 
with a smooth and orderly 
transition." 
Bryson, 48, has argued 
nearly 150 cases in the 
Supreme Court and appeals 
courts and bas won many of 
the government's highest 
honors for career employees. 
Those include Justice's 
highest award for a lawyer, 
the Exceptional Service 
Award in 1985; the highest 
award for senior executive 
service employees. the 
Presidential Distinguished 
Award in 1991; and the 
Att;oniey General's Award for 
Exl~t::lll.enc~~ in Management in 

Costa Rica  $165  
Guatemala  $155  
Columbia  $330  
Kenya  $709  
Java  $650  

Fores are each W"f based on ~ roundtrip purchase from Chicago. Taxes not included ~nd rtstrictions llPPiy. can for other worldwide desti011tions. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St.• 2nd floor Chicago,ll60610 
311-951-0585 Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels magazine 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 18, 1994 
House panel rejects proposal to vary rates 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Democrats on a House Ways and Means panel rejected a Re­publican challenge to their plan to make young people subsidize premiums for their elders as part of health reform. 
By a 7-4 vote, the health sub­committee defeated a proposal Thursday to vary insurance rates by customers' ages, de­spite a warning by Rep. Bill Thomas, R-Calif., that they could "create a generational war." 
The panel revived the possi­bility that it may vote to raise cigarette taxes to $2 a pack to help pay for health reforms. 
On Wednesday the lawmak­ers tabled a motion to approve a $2 cigarette tax, but they negated that action after Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., changed his mind. 
They won't return to an up­or-down vote on tobacco taxes 
The Uses and Misuses ofMemory: Memory and History 
•
zn Christianity and Judaism 
A Crown-Minow Conference Center for Continuing Education 
March 20-23, 1994 
Sunday, March 20 4-8 pm Registration -Center for Continuing Education 8:00pm Welcome -Timothy O'Meara 
Provost, University of Notre Dame 
Session 1: History, Tradition and Post-Modernity Chair: Michael Signer, University of Notre Dame Speaker: Edith Wyschogrod, Rice University Respondent: Mary Gerhart, 
Hobart and William Smith College Reception immediately following 
Monday, March 21 
9-11:30 am Session II Memory and Biblical Theology Chair: Hugh Page, University of Notre Dame Speaker: Joseph Blenkinsopp, Univ. of Notre Dame 
Memory, Tradition, and the Construction ofthe Past in Ancient Israel 
Respondent: Marc Brettler, Brandeis University 12 noon Luncheon (advance reservations required) 1:30-4 pm Session III 
Mem01y and the Literary Imagination 
Chair: Ewa Ziarek, University of Notre Dame Speaker: Arnold Band, UCLA 
Modern Literary Refractions ofthe Blood Libel 
Respondent: Krzysztof Ziarek, Univ. ofNotre Dame 6:00pm Dinner (advance reservations required) 8:00pm Notre Dame String Trio -Snite Museum of Art 
Tuesday, March 22 
9-11:30 am Session IV Liturgy Chair: Blake Leyerle, University of Notre Dame Speaker: Lawrence Hoffman, 
Hebrew Union College-New York 
Does God Remember? Reflections on 'Zikkaron' in Jewish Liturgy 
Respondent: Paul Bradshaw, Univ. of Notre Dame 12 noon Luncheon (advance reservations required) 
until next week. 
The subcommittee, in its third day of work, also voted to es­tablish four premiums -for single people, couples, single parents with children and two­parent families -instead of just two rates for individuals and couples, with or without children. 
Rep. Gerald Kleczka, D-Wis., said the two-rate system would penalize couples without chil­dren. 
Both the Clinton health plan and the draft bill by Rep. Pete Stark, D-Calif., that the sub­committee is working from rely on community-rating to even out health premiums and allow sick people to pay the same as healthy ones. 
Stark's bill, which expands Medicare to cover the poor and uninsured, would have set pre­miums at $2,500 for individuals and $5,000 for couples or fami­lies. Employers would pay 80 percent, workers the rest. 
Kleczka's change lowered the individual rate to $2,000 and the rate for couples to $4,000, but boosted it for two-parent families to $6,075. Single-par­ent families would pay $4,150. 
Community rating means a 22-year-old in perfect health would pay the same rates as a 60-year-old with multiple medi­cal problems. 
Rep. Nancy Johnson, R-Conn., who wanted to vary the rates across seven age groups, said young workers already subsi­dize retirement and health ben­efits for the elderly. 
They should not also be asked "to subsidize the health premi­ums of their parents" who usu­ally have higher-paying jobs, she said. 
But Stark said, "One thing we can be sure of is that we will get old." 
Thomas said community rat­ing in New York state sent health premiums for single males soaring. 
"What do you people have against young people?" 
Tuesday, March 22 (continued) 1:30-3:30 pm Session V 
Memory, Modernity and Sacrament/Mitzvah 
Chair: Catherine Lacugna, Univ. of Notre Dame Speaker: Hanspeter Heinz, Universitat Augsburg 
Celebration ofSacraments and Teaching of 
Commandments in the Age ofInstant 
Religiosity Respondent: David Ellenson, 
Hebrew Union College-Los Angeles  
4-5:30 pm  Session VI  Feminism  
Chair:  Mary Rose D'Angelo,  
University of Notre Dame  

Speaker: Paula Hyman, Yale University 
Memory, Gender, and Identity in Modern 
Jewish History 
Respondent: Thomas Kselman, University of Notre Dame 

6:00 pm Dinner (advance reservations required) 
8:00 pm Session VII 
Constructive Theology ofMemory 
Chair: Richard P. McBrien, Univ. of Notre Dame Speaker: Karl Josef Kuschel, Universitat Tiibingen 
One in Abraham? The Significance of Abraham for Jews, Christians, and Muslims 
Today Respondent: Michael Signer, Univ. of Notre Dame 
Wednesday, March 23 9-10:30 am Session VIII 
Memory and History: Conjunction or 
Disjunction in Jewish-Christian Conversation 
Chair: Lawrence Cunningham, University of Notre Dame Discussion 
Thomas asked the Democrats. "You keep shoving the load on young people." 
In an identical 7-4 party line vote, the panel rejected a bid by Rep. Jim McCrery, R-La., to let companies with more than 100 workers self-insure and avoid community rating. 
Stark's bill would only let companies with more than 1,000 workers self-insure. Clinton's plan would force com­panies with up to 5,000 em­ployees into purchasing pools with pure community rating. 
Stark is walking a tightrope trying to round up six Demo­cratic votes to get the bill out of subcommittee next week. 
Rep. Mike Andrews, D-Texas, said he does not expect to side with his fellow Democrats. 
"I want to keep the process moving, but I'm not going to vote for something I really don't believe in," Andrews said in an interview. "Stark's mark is off the mark." 

BUSINESS 
Friday, March 18, 1994 Page 11. 
Sales tax hikes may not be the answer to school finance 
By CAROLE FELDMAN and tripling the tax on ciga­tures, he said. Now, it has ing schools. Sales taxes are a for the loss of revenue, it raised Associated Press rettes. School districts will get a dropped to the bottom five. lot more volatile, he said, with sales, income and other taxes. minimum of $4,200 per pupil, His concerns are echoed by receipts highly dependent on That law is being challenged in 
WASHINGTON $1,000 more than the poorest Allen Odden, director of finance the economy. court. 
Public schools could end up districts now spend. for the federally funded Con­If Michigan voters had re­The Pennsylvania Legislature losing money if their states fol­"Overall, it's probably a good sortium for Policy Research in jected the higher sales tax, in­is considering a bill that would low Michigan's lead and switch thing to increase the share that Education. come taxes would have gone up allow communities to use a lo­from local financing to a sales states fund education and to "This is not good news for the automatically. cal income tax or county sales tax, some experts say. With provide greater equity in terms public schools of Michigan," he The South Carolina House tax to pay for schools. The pro­other demands on state money of resources for all children," said. considered, and rejected, an posal passed the House and is and the volatility of sales taxes, said Lawrence Picus, an assis­He had a suggestion for other increases in the sales tax to pay awaiting action in the Senate. they advise states to proceed tant professor of education at states considering whether to for education. In Illinois, Dawn Clark with caution. the University of Southern Cali­follow the lead of Michigan, So has Oregon, where voters Netsch, the Democratic candi­
Property taxes traditionally fornia and director of the Cen­where the state Legislature rejected a sales tax measure -date for governor, wants to have been used to pay for pub­ter for Research in Education passed a bill last July doing for the third time in eight raise the state income tax 42 lic schools, but pressure is Finance. away with property taxes as years. The state is dipping into percent to pay for schools and mounting on states to find an­But he is concerned that the main source of funding for income tax revenues to replace provide property tax and in­other way. At least two dozen fewer dollars will be available schools. revenue lost after voters come tax relief. states are embroiled in lawsuits for schools, given all the com­"If you think property taxes approved limits on property tax And in a tongue-in-cheek at­charging that the financing sys­peting demands on a state's are too high, start now... Re­increases in 1990. tack on financing schools with tem creates vast inequities budget. place a large hunk of local Alternatives to a state sales property taxes, supporters of a been rich and poor districts, Picus cites the case of Califor­property taxes but don't get rid tax also are being considered. lawsuit challenging New and property owners are de­nia, where the state picked up of all local fiscal decision mak­In 1992, Kansas set a uniform Hampshire policies are holding manding relief from rising tax a greater share of education ing," Odden said. state-wide rate for local prop­a bake sell. "It's most fitting bills. funding after voters approved Chris Pipho, a spokesman for erty taxes, increasing taxes for because that's the way we've 
Michigan voters this week Proposition 13 limiting in­the Education Commission of some and lowering them for been funding education," said solved a school financing crisis creases in property taxes. The the States, said the relative sta­others, and required school dis­Thomas Conn air, chairman of by approving a 50 percent in­state had been in the top five in bility of property taxes made tricts to spend a minimum the Claremont Lawsuit Coali­crease in the state sales tax terms of per pupil expendi-them a prime source for financ-$3,600 per pupil. To make up tion. 
MARKET ROUNDUP BUSINESS BRIEFS 
WASHINGTON> 
'"'· -,._ . ALBANY, N,Y, WASHINGTON 
March 17, 1994 
Thirty-year{ fixed~r~te mort· Propos~:~,!sto cuttaxes are Six major airlines have gages averaged 7.7§ percent likely t() g~;~;in approval in many agreed to settle price-fLxing al­this week; up fr()m 7 3i3 per~ent states around the country· this legations that they used their last week and the highest in year, repeating apattern set jointly owned computerized niore than a year; the Federal after previous recessions, a. ticket information system to Home L.oan Mortgagt:J. Corp. re$earcber says. They won't raise fares as much as $1.9 bil­said Thursday. It was the high­change tax h\ltdens much, lion between 1988 ;md 1992, est level since mortgages· aver~ however. The C\ltS are small, the Justice Department said to· aged 7.SO percept d'-lring the and by.1996. thetll probably day. The government filed no week ended Feb. 5, J 993. It he overwhelmed · by new. criminal charges and acknowl­also was more than a percent·>/ increases. said Steven Gpld, edged that the airlines had 
1211/93 1/1/94 211/94 311/94 411/94 
age polnt ab()V:e the 25· ar directpr ofthe G~nter for.the stopped the practice in Decem­low of 6. 7 4 percent>: $tudy ()f theStMes. ber1992. 
Huether addresses career search 
By RICK BORST Business Writer 
A student doesn't have to be a business major to get a career in business, according to visit­ing lecturer Richard Huether. 
In Wednesday night's lecture, sponsored by the Arts and Letters Business Society, Huether discussed the benefits of an Arts and Letters degree for students heading into the business world. He stressed that finding an education that is enjoyable is essential in getting into a career that is fulfilling and that divisions in academic subjects should be for organiza­tional purposes rather than career determining ones. 
"The world doesn't divide it­self up by colleges and majors," said Huether to prospective business students last night in the Foster Room at LaFortune. He cited such business careers as market research, which con­tains elements of psychology and anthropology, and ad­vertising and sales, which can relate to an Arts and Letters education. 
"Ownership of your academic life is step one in being success­ful," he said. 
Many careers contain bits tion many seniors are left with according to Huether, through and pieces from sometimes upon graduating: "What do I an Arts and Letters education. very different majors, Huether do now?" This has been Huether's ninth observed. He advised students Huether also talked about year visiting Notre Dame and 
to explore different kinds of how the current economic sit­speaking to business classes courses if they were uncertain uation is highly conducive to an and clubs, often concerning or dissatisfied with their cur­Arts and Letters education. how a person with a Notre rent major, and to search for a Because business is expanding Dame education will fit into the pattern in the things that they into an international scale, business world. Along with like. businesses are looking for peo­these .efforts to convey "a sense 
This process is comparable to ple who will be able to deal of the key issues facing their a jigsaw puzzle___:the picture with this change. This requires era" to business students, 
becomes clearer and clearer as "inductive thinking, creative Huether also works one on one it is put together. The picture thinking, and problem solving with students in counseling that remains answers a ques-abilities," all readily achieved, sessions. 


Trade plan not expected to appease U.S. demands 
By PETER LANDERS opening steps, promised by the Associated Press end of March. But Tokyo does not appear TOKYO ready to go much beyond pre­
Japanese market-opening viously announced steps such steps to be announced this as cutting taxes and reducing month appear likely to fall well regulations that make it hard short of U.S. demands, and for newcomers to enter the Japan could again face the Japanese market. threat of American trade sanc­tions. A senior Foreign Ministry 
In one of the most critical official indicated Thursday that trade areas, the top represen­the March deadline was too tative of Japan's car industry soon for specific deregulation on Thursday rejected U.S. calls steps because extensive negoti­for the Japanese government ations within the government to guarantee that Japan's are needed in each case. automakers buy more The official, speaking to American auto parts. reporters on condition of 
"This is absolutely a matter anonymity, said the steps will between private businesses," be aimed at "showing Japan's said Yutaka Kume, head of the desire for open markets" -a Japan Automobile hint that pledges of future Manufacturers Association. action may make up the bulk "When we announce our parts of the package. purchase plans I don't want That makes it likely the the government to comment." Clinton administration will sin­
Autos and auto parts make gle out Japan under the newly up more than half of Japan's revived Super 301 provision of $59 billion annual trade sur­U.S. trade law, which allows plus with the United States. the United States to levy sanc­
Talks between President tions against nations deemed Clinton and Prime Minister to be unfair traders. Morihiro Hosokawa on ways to The first in a series of steps reduce the overall imbalance leading to sanctions could collapsed last month. come March 31, when a U.S. 
The tensions eased some­report will detail the foreign what last week when the two trade barriers that concern sides agreed on a plan to help Washington most. Motorola Inc. expand its cellu­There remains a basic dis­lar phone business in Japan. agreement between American 
U.S. restrictions on Japanese officials who want Japan to sales in the American market promise specific trade results had been threatened in that and Japanese officials who say case. that's not possible in a free 
U:S. officials say they are economy -a point stressed by watching closely for Tokyo's Kume, who is also chairman of announcement of market-Nissan Motor Co. 
-----~---~~-----------~------~~~~---~--~-­
VIEWPOINT
I
12 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
jake Peters 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
john Lucas ' joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advenising Manager ... : ......................... Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall OTS Director.......................................Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the aurhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­municy and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor!Viewpoinr 631-4541 Day Editor/Producrion 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
FRANK PIMENTEL HEARTS AND MINDS 
Truth and the good are compatible with compassion 
Christ's example: 'Neither do I condemn you; go and sin no more' Qohn 8:11) 

It is said that truth is the first casualty of war. It is also said that the pen is mightier than the sword. Maybe that last sen­tence takes on heightened meaning when the pen is used to spread untruths in what many see as a war. 
In any case, it seems appro­priate to get a bit philosophical 
' If you are out of rea­
sonable arguments but still disagree, then simply admit that while confessing your ideologi­
this week since my last two en­tries here have resulted in some angry responses from those who disagree. On the sur­face, I expect-and in fact wel­come-disagreement. In this col­umn, I ponder problems that confront our society. and hope to help clarify them while proposing solutions. Mine, of course, are not the only solu­tions. 
But what is frustrating, espe­cially in a setting dedicated to education, is to be mocked, la­beled in lieu of substantive refutation, and outright lied about. 
That, quite frankly, is mad­dening. I fear. though-and I admittedly paint with a broad brush-that many who disagree with what they read here (usu­ally on the left) resort to that when they have no am­munition; or worse, when they fear airing their own substan­tive ideas. 
Let's face it, it is easier to say 
DOONESBURY 
KING, THe t(J(}R/..1? YOU ANP I GREN UPIN 
IS O?UMEJUNG... 
that somebody lacks compas­sion (even when that simply cannot be supported on the record) or is "judgmental" to try and evoke sympathy, rather than say, "Your facts/argu­ments are wrong, and using reason with discrediting and complete facts. here's why...." 
I ask you, especially those of you on the economic and social left, do you accept that some­body can both say "X is wrong or not good for the human per­son or society" while still loving and/or caring for those who do 'X."' It seems rather apparent to me that many of you, or at least those moved to put pen to paper, deny that. But if you deny that, then you deny a premise of Christianity-love the sinner but hate the sin. 
Moreover, we are all sinners such that in the eyes of God perhaps we are all the same. I recognize that just as strongly as you do. I have my struggles. Nevertheless, it is our duty as Christians to teach ourselves and others about sinful things and exhort ourselves and our fellows to not sin and to repent when they do and to love them no matter what. But that last part in no way eliminates the ability to attempt the former. 
Of course, this outlook be­comes problematic if one denies the ability to fully know good from evil. If the idea is that the good is relative to each individ­ual, then it is necessarily farci­cal that we could or should teach each other about the good since_we can't really know it anyway. 
In such a world we truly would be entities unto our­

selves. and there would be no moral basis for order except not doing harm unto others. And even that would be subject to group consensus. 
I've come this far in the ar­gument because I believe that the responses that I have re­ceived stem from an idea that truth and the good are incom­patible with compassion. I ar­gue, however, that they must coexist. If they cannot coexist then Jesus could not have told the adulteress woman, "Neither do I condemn you; go and sin no more" (John 8:11). 
But there is another point to be made. What we are called to do as individuals, such as love and forgive, is impossible for governments to do. Governments do not have souls. Therefore, the rules of the game are necessarily different. The author of Federalist 51 rec­ognized this when he wrote, "If men were angels, no govern­ment would be necessary." 
In fact, the idea that govern­ments can and should act as persons are called to act has falsely driven the 1960s politi­cal generation, often ironically as the espousers were person­ally rejecting the specific tenets 
'But what is frustrat­
ing ... is to be mocked, labeled in lieu of substanstive refutation, and outright lied about.' 
of Christianity. 
While it is divine to turn the other cheek to your brother who slaps you, it is asking for anarchy to turn murderers and rapists back on to the streets because of their deprived back­ground. 
All of this is to say that read­ing unrelated beliefs into a per­son's written ideas because one does not like the ideas is an in­tellectual cop-out. By all means, join in the fray. And if you are out of reasonable arguments but still disagree, then simply admit that while confessing your ideological motivations. 
Well, maybe this has made you think. See you at William F. Buckley's speech on March 29, and most importantly, Happy Easter. The Lord is risen. 
Frank Pimentel is a 1987 Notre Dame graduate and will graduate from the Law School in May. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
50N, I:+f V&R~ V&RY PI5APKJIN7£[} IN YOUR. TEACHeR.! 
I 
M&,7W, PAD. 
\ 
''Fatigue is the best pillow." --Benjamin Franklin 
Friday, March 18, 1994 page 13
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Justice calls: God bless the I.R.A. 
Dear Editor: 
The l.R.A. is a good thing. You may be shocked at this statement, but nonetheless it is true. When President Bill Clinton granted the leader of Sinn Fein, Gerry Adams, a visa, he took a step in the right di­rection. 
The problem with Americans is their spur of the moment concepts of justice. What is lacking is a grasp of historical justice, and the ability to look introspectively at our die-hard, perfectionist model of justice. It's just not that simple. The media-blurb society we live in reinforces our righteousness in international affairs. Yes, ter­rorists may seem to be violent at times, but this is a direct re-· flection of the first kind of vio­lence: oppression. 
W.B. Yeats called Ireland a "terrible beauty" in his poem Easter 1916. This grasps Ireland's situation most vividly. All problems of Irish division and violence date back to the British colonization and ex­ploitation of their first and last colony through their imperialist system. In a nutshell, England destroyed the high kingdom of medieval civilization, robbed it of its natural resources, brutal­ly suppressed Ireland's people, unsuccessfully attempted to im­plant its own culture among a Gaelic community, and ulti­mately attempted genocide 
GARY CARUSO 
against the Irish Catholic. 
However, all that we hear about today is the "tragic" bombings in London. How about the systematic destruc­tion of Catholics by Oliver Cromwell? What about the Penal Code which outlawed 

education, voting rights, and the practice of Catholicism? What about the potato blight in the 1840s that destroyed nearly two million people with disease and starvation, all the while Ireland was exporting cattle and grain? What about the beloved leader Winston Churchill who in his finest hour unloaded the infamous Blacks and Tans from English prisons into law enforcement in Ireland? How about the eighty percent unemployment in Northern Irish ghettos today? 
The answer to these ques­tions are complex, but point to an elitist and barbaric concept of divide and rule imposed on all of England's colonies. Hence, the uprisings occurred: O'Neill, the United Irishmen, the Fenians, The Irish Republican Brotherhood, and finally, the Irish Republican Army. 
What does all this mean to us as Irish-Americans and Americans, interested in seeing justice in other countries? It means exactly what the British said last week: an end to the "special" American-English re­lationship. Unfortunately, we only hear one side which is be­ing controlled by the British propaganda machine. We at Notre Dame are implicated in this mess. There are many Irish-Catholics here who view themselves as "assimilated." This is unfortunate, and shows ignorance on the part of these individuals. T.he very name "Fighting Irish" is deroqatory, and shows just how much mis­placed nostalgia ignorant Americans really have. 
Where is the fervor and sup­port for a true peace in Ireland, home of our ancestors? It is nowhere to be found. Instead there is apathy, or even worse, an adherence to our parents' ancient, misguided, ·sos moral­ity. Being a good citizen means not disturbing the status quo, right? Tell that to my ancestor King Mahon, who kicked the crap out of the Danes who came to Ireland for plunder! Brits out of Ireland! Erin go bragh! God Bless the I.R.A.! 
DAVID MCMAHON 
Sohpomore 
Morrissey Hall 


e 
Q~Ediu.r: ···•··.·······•·. ··... . \ '. F • ·· lieoording to folklor~. his policy l \Yft.S, disap'(.lointed:to~~y in Ireland was to chase snakes "'ne~ I react that the Boston St.. away, not the opposite. · I'a.tric~'* Day pa.rad~.sch{'l~~ ·· G1,1.ys and lesbians wbo are uled f(lr S1.m(fa.y woqJd .mos~ '+l;~h should celebrate together likely l!e canc¢~~d: Thi> r~ason:. ••• apd have fun because it is St. fr!.e yeterans gh:~UJ? that.spon-Patrick's Day, and for that rea­sors the ev~11t woulct rather son only. The holiday is bigger ~a.ncettM para.de rather tha.n than their individual tastes. hav~ a. gay gronp marchinJt. ·r realize that homosexuality 
ln my op~nion. tile gays and is a part of life and our society. lesbians that are demanding l believe gays and lesbians attention 011 this holiday are. deserve equal rights, and I out 9f line. anq· are ca.~sing think that Notre Dame should Unl)'ec.essary strt(e Jpr the . do what it can to ensure the ~ponsf)rs Of the parade anq tlte existence of support groups people ofBoston, .••. ..··.····• · and to increase tolerance here 
St. Patric~'s Day is a ti:ril¢ ff)r on :campus. But I just don't see people to cele}lrate their Jrish why a fun time for children heritage an(!fordr~rt~ and be and adults alike must II1erry, H is simply not an encounter an obstacle of this appropriate time to turn the natnre. focus on sexual. preferenceS;\ JAMES BORGER That'$ what Coming ()lJ,t Day is Sophomore for. I am confidep.jthat st. Morrissey Hall Patrick was not· gay~. After all. 
CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Memories from the capitol: A Tribute to Tip O'Neill 
In January, one of the truly legendary political figures of this century passed away. Thomas P. "Tip" O'Neill served in· Congress for 34 years, including ten as the Speaker of the House. He suc­ceeded John F. Kennedy when Kennedy successfully ran for the U.S. Senate in 1952. Ironically, O'Neill was suc­ceeded by JFK's nephew, Joseph, when O'Neill retired in 1987. 
For some, when history sand­wiches you between members of a political dynasty, you can become just another footnote in the long list of those elected to Congress. For O'Neill, it was more than just "Irish Luck" that placed him into the history books. His style, charm, intelli­gence and humility catapulted him to the third-highest posi­tion n our government. 
My first year working in the 
U.S. House of Representatives was the first year of Tip's Speakership. I had no reference point from which to compare his demeanor or leadership abilities. I did not know how Carl Albert's tenure had fared with the Democrats, let alone the Republican opposition. It was not until after O'Neill retired that I could assess just how great his personality and leadership skills were. 
O'Neill knew his Massachusetts constituency almost on a name-by-name basis. He could tell you who married whom, what he had done for this family, or what assistance that family offered during any given campaign. He based his political fortunes on local politics, which was the topic of his last made us feel book. But his welcome, ability to never passed the ring forget that he around his was a common table of eight, man working and chatted for the common with both of us family was his for about twen­greatest ty minutes. strength. Other Speakers 

Anyone could would not have walk up to Tip been so accom­to speak for a modating. moment. He O'Neill would enjoyed a good regularly attend cigar, a good the annual laugh, and good baseball game company. He between treated both Democrat and Democrats as Republican well as Members of Republicans Congress. This with respect. charity game When the leg­raised tens of islative day had thousands of ended, he set dollars for aside partisan Children's politics and Hospital in would socialize Washington. with everyone. Only sitting He would say Members could that he followed play, but I was one rule when one of the dealing with coaches in the Republicans. He Democrat's would detest dugout. The the sin but for­Speaker would give the sinners. A year later Bahr was attend­sign baseballs for us and talk to 
I was once in the Speaker's ing a Reagan Inaugurational us as though we too were elect­company when O'Neill talked Ball with a few people and ed representatives. 
with Matt Bahr who was the myself. One evening we went to Unfortunately, my O'Neill­place kicker for the Pittsburgh dinner at a restaurant where signed baseball faded. So last Steelers the year the Steelers the Speaker and his wife were summer when I ran into one of had won their fourth Super dinning. I boldly grabbed Tip's sons, I asked him when Bowl. O'Neill wondered aloud Bahr's arm and dragged him the Speaker might next be in to Bahr what the next Super over to the Speaker, politely Washington. His son gave me Bowl ring would look like. Bahr interrupted their conversation, their office number and told me had responded that if he was in and explained that the ring and to call in late September. I visit­town again, he would show it to Bahr had returned. Without ed the Speaker in late October the Speaker . missing a beat the Speaker and had him sign a couple of baseballs for me. He was as gracious as ever, and asked me, "Now when did I meet you?" 
I answered in the Democratic dugout, but he further inquired because he was sure it had been somewhere else. I told him about the restaurant episode during the Reagan Inaugural event twelve years prior. 
"That's it," he said. "I remember how damn big that ring was with the four dia­monds." 
After another brief chat, I thanked him and wished him well. I am glad that I ran into his son last summer. I am glad that I was able to see the Speaker one more time and to have those baseballs signed. Most importantly, I am glad that my life brushed along his a couple of times. 
If every Representative and Senator in Congress were like Tip O'Neill, regardless of party affiliation, regardless of whether conservative or liberal, Congress would have a high rating from the American pub­
lic. It's highest rating ever was during the year Tip O'Neill retired. O'Neill was one in a million. I am thankful that I was one of the privileged who interacted with him. He is the type of American politician who comes every generation or so and keeps our nation great. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, works in Washington, D.C. as a desktop publishing spe­cialist for the U.S. House of Representatives. His column appears every other Friday. 
.. 
ACCENT 
page 14 Friday, March 18, 1994 

Troop ND to host campus­wide talent show 
By BILL FEKRAT ing. These acts qualified by supported this show by provid­Accent Writer passing an audition held at the ing prizes for the top three per­end of February. formers. The first place win­The hidden talents of Notre "We were fortunate to get a ners of the dorm competition Dame will be exposed to the lot of different types of acts," will receive a traveling trophy world this evening at the First Elizaga said. "This being the for their dorm as well as free Annual Troop ND Campus­first show, nobody knew what food and compact discs from Wide Talent Show. to expect, but it has worked out TGI Friday's and Tracks. 
"We wanted this show be­well." Second and third place winners cause there was never any will also receive an assortment event where different groups The dorm competition will be of food prizes from local restau­could show their talents. The judged by a celebrity panel in­rants. Keenan Revue and Sorin Talent cluding everyone's favorite pun Show featured people from artist from the Notre Dame People who attend the show those dorms, but this is some­football games, Sergeant Tim will also walk out with some thing for everybody to partici­McCarthy of the Indiana State prizes. The first one hundred pate in," said Ron Elizaga, the Police. Other judges will be people at the show will get a show's coordinator. Dave Shock of Crimestoppers, coupon for a free hot dog from 
The first part of the show Lamarr Justice, Jeff Burris, Frank's Red Hots, and everyone consists of acts invited by Troop Bryant Young, Mike Miller, and who attends will get a free one­ND to perform. Included will Notre Dame cheerleaders day pass to Powerhouse Gym. be singing by Torya Tynes and Sondra Rekuc, Amy Pikal, and Troop ND is one of the fastest Jeremy Sample, comedy acts by Jennifer Durso. growing clubs at Notre Dame. 
"' Owen Smith and Men on the One extra special feature of Begun in the 1990-91 school Dome, the Voices of Faith the show is emcee Rocket year, the group has grown to Gospel Choir, campus bands Ismail who will prove that 450 members. Nineteen of the Pulse and Sabor Latino, a lyri­Shaquille O'Neal is not the only members make up the per­cal ballet and several perfor­star athlete who can rap. forming group while the rest mances by Troop ND. Ismail will perform a rap along participate in dance classes or­
The second part of the show with Alex Montoya. ganized by the club. is the dorm competition which In addition to the talent acts, The show starts at 7:30 p.m. features eleven different acts during intermission there will tonight at Washington Hall. from Notre Dame and Saint also be a preview for the 18th Tickets cost $4 and are on sale Mary's. These acts will include annual Notr-e Dame Fashion at North and South Dining Halls singing, dancing, instrumental Show sponsored by NAACP. during meal hours and at performances, and lip-synch-Many local businesses have LaFortune Student Center. The Observer/John Bingham 
Local celebrities to judge talent show 
By DAVE McMAHON event," he said. "Our show is ing the show," he added. According to McCarthy and Other surprise celebrities will Accent Writer exceptional because of its vari­"It will also test Notre Dame's Shock, they hope this event will be performing at the show. ety and I hope for a sell-out raw talent and we hope for a be successful and hopefully Rocket will perform a rap. 
Introducing its new talent crowd Friday." rise in campus pride," he com­raise campus and dorm pride. During the intermission there show tonight, the sponsors of The Troop ND Talent Show mented. "This will be a great way to will be a preview for an upcom­Troop Notre Dame have sum­offers a plethora of entertain­bring the University together," ing fashion show and Travis moned many local and campus ment including singing, com­The talent and the big names expressed Rocket Ismail. Davis and Burris will be per­celebrities to help judge the edy, dancing, piano, trumpet on campus should lure in a forming. events and find the best talent duets, and a variety of campus large crowd. Other guests include: Jeff Elizaga hopes that special on campus, according to coor­bands. Officer McCarthy, the state Burris, Mike Miller, Bryant guest Jeremy Sample will help dinator Ron Elizaga. trooper coining the infamous Young, Lamarr Justice, Troop raise attendance. 
Celebrities will vary from "And the show will never lose half-time puns, and Dave Shock ND advisor Indi Diekgrafe, and Tickets are still available so Dave Shock of Crimestoppers it's dance flavor with Troop ND . are both honored to be a part of Irish cheerleaders Sondra come out to see your favorite to the legendary Rocket Ismail. performing throughout the the newest talent show on cam­Rekuc, Amy Pikal, and Jennifer campus entertainment and "I have high hopes for this show at various intervals dur-pus. Durso. judge a little for yourself. 


-· 
Friday, March 18, 1994 The Observer· LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD page 15 
Sidestepping the temptation of sex 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers Ia a Bonefj 9od 
In a graveyard do~ East in Maine where I grew up, there's a tombstone that says: 
FOR FIFTEEN YEARS, SHE KEPT HER VIRGINITY, WHICH IS PRETTY DAMN GOOD FOR THIS VICINITY. 
The epitaph may be tasteless but at least it is't grim. If you want to see human nature at its grimmest, visit the porn shops on 42nd street on Manhattan's West side. I lived several sum­mers on 42nd street, where you can tell you're in Hell's kitchen because you never hear laugh­ter. 
Laughter can be the outward and visible sign of the Catholic grace in our lives. "Wherever the Catholic sun does shine/there is always laughter and good red wine." Wine is the choicest part of a great sacra­ment. Laughter, I think, is sacramental too, since it brings God close. 
All this came to mind when I read in the Observer of the upcoming summit on human sexuality which begins Sunday night. It is to be held as a post mortem of Spring Break, pre­sumably for the benefit of hun­dreds, if not thousands, of sad­der but wiser students exposed to temptations as they played in the sun on the beaches down South. 
I hope the grim people with long faces will not take over the summit. Human sexuality is too serious not to be laughed at. Madonna would stop being a feels like to be Holden Caufield facing the end of innocence, wanting to save the children from seeing the obscene graffiti scrawled wherever there's a wall? 

The sexual urges which so easily lead us into shame and sin are such a puzzlement, we don't even know what to pray for to help us sidestep tempta­tions except for things that would leave us sick, or weak­ened, or physically neutered. We should not believe that being neutered or wasted is God's will for us. 
We've been told that the best way of getting rid of tempta­tions is to yield to them; this seems to be the modern way we learn from watching television. If we should make a habit of it, it could lead us to self-destruc­tion. 
"I can resist everything except temptation," said oscar Wilde wittily; apparently, he was as foolishly selfindulgent as he joked about being. 
Going from bed to worse, he defended smoking, adding more nails to his coffin. He said: "A cigarette is the perfect type of a perfect pleasure. It is exquisite, and leaves one unsatisfied. What more could one want?" 
He paid the price for his sins­jas a prisoner of Reading Gaol, where he wrote: "And the wild regrets, and the bloody sweats,/None knew so well as 1:/For he who lives more lives than one/ More deaths than one must die." 
graphic 
sex goddess, if only her groupies would make her a laughing stock. 
Is it in this generation, or the next one, that no one should expect to survive his/ her ado­lescence as a virgo intacta, according to the projections made on CNN? According to the wisdom dispensed on NBC cable, merit bages need not be passed out to teenagers who make it through the minefield to adulthood while remaining relatively pure. 
C-NBC faevored us with cam­era shots of condoms being stretched over the upthrust fin­gers of the pretty women they had on as guests. To turn a deaf ear to the advice they were giving would be like doubting the wisdom of having smoke detectors. The sexual revolution is over, and this is the epilogue. 
As a priest, am I duty-bound to argue against safe sex? I am on a wave-length with the Roman playwright Terence, who died in 159 B.C.: Homo sum; humanum nil a me alienum puto. ("I am a man; I count nothing human foreign to anyone made of flesh and blood, the desire for physical intimacy comes with the territo­ry as a birthright. 
Concupiscence stirs in the loins of the very young, and fol­lows the very old into the val­ley of the shadow of death. As blind appetite, itcomes early, and stays late, remaining all the day long. When evening falls, it invades oursleep, and makes our dreams erotic. The more we set our wills against it, the more on persistent it becomes. 
Saints on their deathbeds after lifetimes of prayer and fasting in an effort to remain pure, are attacked by thoughts and desires so lewd that they couldbring damnation. 
The mystery of why God had to make sex, the tie that binds the body to the soul leaves us complaining because the tug of it is so imperious. The mystery of the tease of it, when we're trying so hard to be chaste, is part of the problem of human suffering. 
The need for physical intima­cy can be bitter-sweet when it fuels young lovers into seeming star-crossed, like Romeo and Juliet, or the nurse and the lieutenant in A Farewell to Arms. 
Would The Catcher in the Rye be so appealing if so many of us didn't remember what it 


page 16 The Observer • Classifieds Friday, March 18, 1994 
1994 NCAA MEN'S BASKEri'BALL CHAMI1110N.SHIP 
1st Round 2nd Round Reglonals 
Semifinals Reglonals 2nd Round 1st Round 
WEST EAST 
. (1) North Carolina 27-6
(~Ji'..1i!il>~uri 25-3 . 
(16) Navy 17-1 
(8) Cincinnati 22-9 (~~ ~i;:?~.~i~ 1!~~? l· (~) ~i~~<>.'.JS.iJ1 .... 
<!:i.> ..C.ii.lif_l:).rJ1ili.. :2:2~! ... (12) Wis.-G.B. 26-6 
............................. 
Los Angeles March 24 & 26 
National Championship 
Charlotte, N.C. April4 
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME (2) Arizona 25-5 
l--­
(15l Loyola, Md. 17-12} Charlotte, N.C. ---·-·---
~ 
April2 ~-·-····---·--' 
April2 
SOUTHEASTMIDWEST 
CHAMPION 
(1J~r:'.<li,!ili!l :2~~:3 . 
(16) N. Carolina A& 
............ t?.:t~............................! 
(8) Illinois 17-10 
(9) Georgetown 18-11 Oklahoma City, Okla. {!itLJCLA 21 -6 March 18 & 20 
mm
{t?1TYI!?.~ ?t:? Jt------.-...-.....-....-......L . 
(4) Qj(l~;t, ~t. ?:3~9. r 
(13) N. Mex.St. ?:3:7:J ··························· 
Dallas March 25 & 27 
~~~;:.~~?~-~~~o. "} J~>Ee.~-~----· l 
(3) Michigan 21-7 r................... 
(14) Pepperd1ne 1~-10 ~.J.3) Michigan--~ 
-· Wichita, Kan. 
(7) St. Louis 23-5 March 17 & 19 
E;;,:::·::::: :~=:.J .. ­
( ) seed AP 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Gold Loop earring, lost somewhere between P.E. and Juniper Road. Aunt Eileen is going to kill me if I don't get it back. 
PLEASE call Tara 4-4836 
Found a gold chain in north quad during Spring Break. Owner please give description to Basil at 4-4472. 
LOST: GOLD RING W/ GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE REWARD OFFERED IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4298 
LOST · in SOH Green LL Bean backpack & running shoes. Reward. Call Mary 4-2240. 
Found • Watch outside SOH Tues. am call 4-371 0 to identify 
Found· Lady's watch in Nieuwland on Wed. Call631-6387 to identify 
We know the sound of two hands clapping, but what is the sound of one hand clapping? My right hand still lacks a black leather ladies' glove! Call Beth x 4994. 
WANTED 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1·208-860­0219 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1·206·634-0468 ext. C5584 
Wanted: A used car in good condition. Call 4-2029. 
Summer Girl Needed · Chicago 
North suburbs. Live in & help care 
for infant, 2,7, & 11 yr. olds. Prefer 
non-smoker w/ drivers license. 
Salary + room & board. Interested 
person call 708·295-3493. 
Work in the Wild I Tour guide, dude ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter 
+ volunteer and government posi· lions available at national parks. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over 25,000 openings! Apply now for best positions. For more info call: 1­206-545-4804 ext. N5584 
MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES. Arthur Victor Painting, Inc. is searching for ambitious students to fill summer management positions throughout Indiana including South Bend. Complete training and field support. High income potential. 1· 800-775-4745. 
SUBWAY is NOW HIRING If you are an enthusiastic, depend· able self starter, we would like to talk to you. Flexible hours and friendly atmosphere. Call Jacki or Penny at 277-7744 for an interview. 
Female roomate to live off-campus (anywhere) next year. 
Please call Carolyn 284-4356 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • Earn up to $2000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com· panies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1·206-634-0468 ext. C6675 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN· NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIOEDI GUARAN· TEED SUCCESS! (919)929·4398 ext A29. 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for handicapped children. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 19 through August 14. Salary, room & board, and experience of lifetime provided. Call or write for applies· lion and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906)228-5770. 
anyone interested in singing, play­ing an instrument, or acting in the freshman class mass on April 10, please contact Brian at x1799 
Needed Desperately-A private Calc 1 06 TUTOR 2 or 3 days a week. Pay negotiable. Call Shannon at x4001. 
Looking for a Used Car in Good Condition. Call 4-2029. 
SUMMER LIFE GUARD We need 1 or 2 fully-certified file· guards lor our miniature wave pool in Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr. Complete season hours. Season 5/25/94-Labor day, 1994. Weekends only after school starts. Call Jim Wyllie 277-1335. 
CARPENTERS HELPER: Seasonal position with large apartment com· munity. Basic knowledge of wood­working. Will train the right person. Apply in person M·F, 9·5 to Hickory Village Apartments, 4312 Hickory, north of Edison. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF 
CAMPUS. 272·0615 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­NO/SMC EVENTS (219)291·7153 
OAKHILL CONDO! Spacious liv­
ing/dining area, 1 BR w/lg. loft, 2 
Bth, fireplace, W/0, vaulted ceiling, garage, balcony. 12 mo. lease, 2 
person max. Walking distance to campus. $650/mo. Call Caroline or 
Bill at (317)297-8485 
Turtle Creek Townhome for school 
year of 1994-95 is available. Call 
Reg at x1480 for information. 
HAVE 2 BOA APT-LOOKING 
FOR FML ROOMMATE FOR 1ST 
SEM ONLY '94 AT CASTLE PT. 
CALL 284-4045 OR x4394 
[ FORSALE 
IBM Proprinter II XL, wide-carriage, like new, call Lisa@ 631-5890 
IBM Printer free to first caller. 
(This isn't a joke!!) Call Bob at 
1721. 
1984 BUICK ELECTRA L TO. LIGHT BLUE 4-DOOR CALL X3001 W/ OFFER 
FOR SALE · INDY 500 TICKETS. GREAT 3RD +4TH TURN ACTION. CALL 272-7233. 
Trek 800 bike for sale 15" frame, 2 mo. warranty remain· ing at outpost $250 or best otter, call Lee @ 1 x5802 
PERSONAL 
Happy Birthday Daddy ·you're the best!!! I love you! Love. Ki·Ki 
Pangborn Hall presents ... CANCELLATION!!! The video teleconference "American Choices"has been CANCELED for this Sunday, March 20 at 6 p.m. in room 101 DeBartolo. Due to satel· lite dilliculties, the program will be postponed indefinitely. Student government apologizes for this abrupt CANCELLATION. Please spread the word. Thanks! 
Highlights of CARDINAL O'CON· NOR'S First Decade: 1984 Jan. Appointed Archbishop of NY 1985 Aug. Announces establish· men! of state's first AIDS unit 1986 June Takes 3 day trip to Lebanon to contact hostages 1987 June Dedicates dental clinic for AIDS patients 1988 Jan. Pledges his Social Security income to start a scholar­ship lund for black students 1989 Dec. Dedicates new St. John Nam parish for Korean­Americans 1990 March Urges reform of immi­gration laws 1991 Feb. Expresses sorrow at start of Gulf War 1992 Oct. Dedicates new resi· dence for elderly blacks & hispan­ics 1993 Aug. Joins Pope for World Youth Day 1994 March Meets with students of Notre Dame & St. Mary's for 
DAY OF RECOLLECTION 
MARCH21 Sign up in the Dining Hall Tonight Last Chance! For more info. call 1·9006 ND/SMC RTL 
THE PRICE IS RIGHT Sunday, March 20 at 3 p.m. 
in Washington Hall. Tickets $3 sold at LaFortune until Saturday & before the perfor­mance on Sunday. Proceeds go to: The Boys & Girls Club. 
In a hurry ... 
don't worry. 
FAX IT! 
at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center NEW LOWER PRICES! 
WHOS GOT THE SEXIEST LEGS-FIND OUT SAT 
When I come knocking She smiles pretty. 
She knows I wanna be Candy's boy. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, HOLLY CAMPBELL!!!! HAVE A GREAT 20TH ... SORRY I CAN'T BE WITH YOU TO PARTY! ..... KM 
SUMMER JOBS · ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES· TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­786-8373 
Meine Liebe, FRANCESCA! 
Viet Gluck mit deiner Prufung und ALLES GUTE ZUM GEBURT· STAG!I Du bist eine gute Student, und ich bin ganz froh, das du so eine gute Freundin bist! Viel Spas am Wochenende, aber SEI BRAVI 
To Cam, Cyndi, Kira, Scrappy, Weeder, BB, Mike, Bill, Ed, Cherry, Dave, Cupcake, Goat, Ski and Duffy·­
Thanks for the time of my life and 
for making me feel like a part of 
your "family.• I'd live with all of you 
again anytime! And Weeder -I'd 
kick you out of bed ..... ! Love, Beth 
Sexy Legs Sexy Legs 
"Oink, you're pretty" 
Sexy Legs Sexy Legs rave party '94 drugs, sex & booze galore fisher hall 337 just knock on the door 
10:00 pm this saturday 
Liz Jordan -Have you lost your faith? 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
CRAZY QUOTES FROM 
SOUTH PADREIIJI 
1. 
"This must be what impotence feels like."-LL 

2. 
"Oh, are you a packaging engi· neering major?" -KH 

3. 
"I got A egg." ·BB 

4. 
"I pumped it up hard last night before I went to bed."·BB 

5. 
"Ed is designated luge."-SO 

6. 
"Do you want me to wipe my hands before I rub your head?"-BW 

7. 
"I need a plunger."-BB 


B. "I didn't know he was a veter­an!"-CH 
9. 
"BB was weird last night in bed."-CT 

1
0. "CHiPs · -this show has a message!"·AW 

11. 
"You are a vice, Ed."·AW "And a hammer, and a screwdriver. . ."-LL 

12. 
• YOU HAVEN'T FELT THE BB?" -CT, CH &KH, to BW 

13. 
"I'm gonna VOMITJII"-KH 

14. 
•t tart so the room smells bet· ter."-Scrappy 

15. 
SUNSHINE!!II!I 

16. 
"I say we go to the bars, get drunk, come back here, and pack sh-1."-ES 

17. 
"Looks like 6 more weeks of winter."-MB 

18. 
"Lamps, Godzilla, and the security guard are talking." -DH 

19. 
"He's turning chicken on me." -BB 

20. 
"You can tart now, we're in Gary!I"-CH 

21. 
"BB. how often do you do it?" 


-KH "I gave it up for lent."-BB 's reply 
22. 
"Anyone seen Duffy?" -(Sunday morning), everyone but PO 

23. 
•_ss would be mouth watering after this beerl" -PO 


@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
Greetings to 'berry and choco. Have a scoop of neopolitian ice cream while you save a nut by eat­ing a squirrel. -'nilla 
Jackson Pollack • Thanks for com­ing -I love youll -Pixsy 
--~----­
Friday, March 18, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Dare and George Washington survive a defensive struggle 
Associated Press the offense," coach Mike Jarvis 20 minutes. in the second half, holding Showing a perfect mix of pa­said. "This was not a pleasing Rider (21-9) to 8-for-32 shoot­tience, accuracy and intelli­
They don't have much of a record and they don't shoot particularly well. 
All George Washington does is win when it counts -in the NCAA tournament. 
The Colonials, the surprise team of last year's 64-team field, survived a poor-shooting, 20-point second half and de­feated Alabama-Birmingham 51-46 Thursday in the East Re­gional. 
Seven-foot-one center Yinka Dare led the lOth-seeded Colonials with 16 points and guard Kwame Evans had 14. George Washington will play Connecticut on Saturday. The second-seeded Huskies ad­vanced with a 64-46 victory over Rider. 
"We're a good defensive team and we usually do well against perimeter teams. I wish some of our confidence on defense would transfer over to 
In last year's tournament, GW advanced to the final 16 by beating New Mexico and Southern before losing to Michigan 72-64 in the West semifinals. 
This year, some critics said George Washington (18-11) should not have been chosen for an at-large berth in the tournament after tying for third place in the Atlantic 10 confer­ence. 
"We've been here before and we know what it takes to win. We're confident," Dare said. 
Still, GW was awful offen­sively in the second half. The Colonials made just six of 22 field goal attempts (27 percent) and survived a seven-minute scoreless stretch. 
Luckily for them, the Blazers (22-8) shot just as poorly, mak­ing only 29 percent in the last 
COME TO Tl-iE TRoop NO TAlENT Sliow 
FEATURiNG: 
ln~ited Taleat, Dom Competitio• ~tit~ Judges: Lt Dave S~oek (Cri111e Stoppers), S!f. Ti111 MeCarthy (ladiaaa St. Poliee), la111arr J11stiee, JeH Burris, Mike Miller, Bryaat Youag, Mrs. ladi Diekgrafe, Sondra Rekue, A•y Pikal, Jen 
Durso, aad Special Host, Raghib ..ROCKET.. Ismail 
Iffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff 
way to go out," UAB coach Gene Bartow said. "In fact, it's a horrible way to go out. But that's what can happen and did happen." 
Leading scorer Robert Shannon, averaging 19.1 points, was 6-of-24 from the field and had 16 points. 
The rest of the team didn't pick up the slack, as Carter Long had 13 points and Clarence Thrash 10 for UAB. 
(2) Connecticut 64, (15) Rider 46 
Connecticut's first game of the NCAA East Regional was no easy Rider until Donyell Mar­shall and the Huskies shook off their jitters in the second half. 
Marshall, averaging 25.8 points, scored only six on 2-for­7 shooting in the first half Thursday, when Connecticut shot 38.7 percent from the field. Heavy underdog Rider led by as many as six points on the way to a 29-29 halftime tie. 
Then Marshall scored nine of his 19 points as Connecticut started the second half with a 23-6 run and rolled to a 64-46 victory. 
"I was uptight a little, I think everyone was," said Marshall, who scored under 20 points for only the third time in 32 games. 
"I think we were afraid to lose. It's really our first time as big favorites, and we were ner­vous. I hope we got it out of our system." 
The Huskies (28-4) turned 
,••••••••••••••••••••••• the game around with defense 
PART I OF A 3-PART SERIES 

MARCH 20, 1994 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
7~9 PM 
SEXUALITY AND THE 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT 
MoNK & MAuRA SPEAK:WHAT Do THEY KNow? 
A look at sexuality in a Christian context, and how we might better understand ourselves and our relationships. 
Presenters: Fr. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C.; Maura Ryan, Department o(Theology 
Each session will include: • Presentation by speakers or panel 
• Facilitated small-group discussions • Good food and drink 
-0MPU5 
Students are welcome to attend all three sessionsMINI51RY or as many of the three as they can. 
ing after halftfme. For the game, -the Broncs shot 34.5 percent. 
"We're known as an offen­sive team, but I think we're as much a defensive team as an offensive team," Marshall said. "We got a lot of fastbreak points off our defense." 
The Huskies, ranked fourth nationally and the second seed in the East, forced 15th-seeded Rider to miss 13 of its first 15 shots in the second half. 
Connecticut took advantage of the drought to turn the halftime tie into a 52-35 lead with 6:34 left. 
"In assessing the first half, I would praise Rider instead of bashing Connecticut," UConn coach Jim Calhoun said. 
"It's a 40-minute game and we won by 18. But Rider played their brains out and it isn't fair to just say we didn't play well in the first half." 
Freshman Charles Smith, Rider's leading scorer with a 17-point average, scored 14 and Deon Hames finished with 12 for the Broncs. 
"For three-fourths of the game, we had two good teams out there, and I'm proud of that," Rider coach Kevin Ban­non said. "We gave them a scare, but not as much as I wanted to." 
Donny Marshall scored 14 points, while freshmen Doron Sheffer and Ray Allen had 12 each for Connecticut (28-4). 
(11) Penn 90, (6) Nebraska 80 
Penn looked like an Ivy league team, except this time the Ivy League team won. 
DEADLINE • 
gence, the Quakers became the first Ivy League team to win an NCAA tournament game in 10 years, beating Nebraska 90-80 Thursday night in the East Re­gional. 
Nebraska (20-9) has never won an NCAA tournament game in five tries. 
The Quakers (25-2) domi­nated from the midpoint of the first half until more than halfway through the second half, building leads as high as 18 points. 
They made 11 3-pointers, milked the clock when they needed to and didn't let sixth­seeded Nebraska get high-per­centage shots out of its run­and-gun offense. 
Barry Pierce had 25 points, Jerome Allen 19, Eric Moore 15 and Matt Maloney 12. 
It all added up to a surpris­ingly one-sided victory for Penn, which will play again Saturday against the winner of the game between Florida and James Madison. 
And it ended 10 years offrus­tration for the Ivies, who hadn't earned a tournament victory since Princeton beat San Diego in a 1984 play-in game. 
Nebraska was led by Eric Pi­atkowski with 23 points, but the Cornhuskers missed 17 of 20 3-pointers and couldn't find a defensive strategy to stop the Quakers. 
Scott Kegler and Tim Krug 
added nine points each for 
11th-seeded Penn, which has 
the longest winning streak in 
the country at 16 games follow­
ing College of Charleston's loss 
Thursday to Wake Forest in the 
Southeast Regional. 
EXTENDED 
(there are children who need you) 
Teach For America is a national teacher corps which brings non-education majors into urban and rural public school classrooms across the country for a two year commitment. You do not need an education degree. You do need idealism, a willingness to work with at-risk children, the dedication to be a great teacher, and the desire to be part ofa corps. 
Because the demand for Teach For America teachers has been so incredible this year, we have extended our application deadline until 
MARCH 25, 1994 
However there are a limited number ofapplications, so you must act immediately! Applications may be available at your career service office. If not, calll-800/832-1230, ext. 450. 
ITEACH FOR AMERICA I 
Applicants who have applied by the]anuary 15, 1994 and March 2, 1994 deadlines are considered first. Thank you to the thousands who have already applied! 
page 18 The Observer • NCAA Tournament Friday, March 18, 1994 
Duncan don1inates the center as Wake Forest wins 68-58 
Associated Press 
Wake Forest's Tim Duncan took a hard line after getting a second chance against College of Charleston. 
Duncan, a freshman center, had 16 points and 13 rebounds and blocked eight shots as Wake Forest beat Charleston 68-58 in the first round of the NCAA Southeast Regional Thursday. 
"I did what the coach (David Odom) told me to do," said Duncan, a 17 -year-old from the Virgin Islands. "He took me out in the second half because my man scored twice. He told me I was playing soft. He gave me another chance." 
Duncan's presence in the middle kept Charleston from taking the ball inside. And the Cougars, who ranked sixth jn the nation in field-goal accura­cy· at 50.1 percent, shot only 35 percent. 
"He is a young colt who is good at this stage of his ca­reer," Charleston coach John Kresse said. "He has a bright future ahead of him at Wake and in the pros." 
Still, fifth-seeded Wake For­est (21-11) needed some out­side punch in the final minutes -and Marc Blucas and Charlie Harrison each hit two 3-point­ers during a late 16-6 run. 
Charleston (24-4), making its first appearance in the tour­nament and holding the na­tion's longest winning streak at 16 games. 
(4) Kansas 102, (13) Tenn.-Chattanooga 73 
Kansas went inside and stopped Tennessee-Chat­tanooga outside in a victory Thursday in the first round of the NCAA Southeast Regional. 
Senior Richard Scott had a career-high 26 points to lead the Jayhawks, who held the Moccasins to a season-low 30 percent shooting, including a 1­for-13 effort by Southern Con­ference player of the year Chad Copeland. 
Fourth-seeded Kansas (26­7), which won its 11th straight NCAA opening-round game, will meet fifth-seeded Wake Forest in the second round Saturday at Rupp Arena. Wake Forest beat the College of Charleston 68-58. 
Freshman Scot Pollard added 17 points for the Jay­hawks and Jacque Vaughn had seven points and 11 assists. 
Moccasins coach Mack Mc­Carthy didn't start Copeland and Born, his two leading scor­ers, because they were late for Sunday's practice. Smith, the team's leading rebounder, also didn't start because he missed 
For your group's next social event, try
r'F.~· t

1 ~_, J.. remo.··.es. •• 
Our experienced student DJs will play what you want to hear 
on or off campus... 
so contact WFVI with your request list today! 
Call Jeff @634-1471 or 631-6888 
THE 
INTERVIEW 
Whether you're shopping for the all­important business suit or your post-college wardrobe, there's no better time than right now. 
Between now and March 31, simply 
SUIT Purchase any Redwood &Ross suit and recieve a 20°/o discount 
\ . .,1 11 
Sl~ 
present a valid student 
1.0. at any Redwood & Ross store and receive a 20% discount on the suit ofyour choice. 
Visit one of our stores today and take advantage of this very special offer. 
lteAwooA i R.oss 
University Park Mall 
219-272-0470 
Not valid in combination with any other offer. 
an injury treatment on Satur­day. Copeland averaged 
20.7 points while shooting 40 percent but he couldn't get a good look at the basket against the physical Jayhawks and fin­ished with five points. 
Born had 21 points, while Mario Hanson added 16, all but two in the second half. 
(l)Purdue 98, 
(16) Central Fla. 67 
Glenn Robinson scored eight of his 31 points during an early 10-point run, and third-ranked Purdue routed Central Florida Thursday night in the NCAA Southeast Regional. 
Robinson, the nation's lead­ing scorer with a 30.3-point av­erage, made a free throw, two 15-footers and a 3-pointer dur­ing the run. 
Purdue (27 -4), a first-round loser in its previous two NCAA appearances, plays next on Saturday against the winner of the game between Alabama and Providence. 
Central Florida (21-9), in its first NCAA tournament appear­ance, couldn't recover after the early run. 
Cuonzo Martin scored 20 points, including 13 in the first half, and Matt Waddell added 12 for Purdue. 
Victor Saxton led 16th-seed­ed Central Florida with 16 points, followed by Ochiel Swaby with 12 and Davis 10. Swaby, who averages 18.5 points, fouled out with 10:34 remaining. 
Robinson also grabbed down 11 rebounds. Purdue outre­bounded the Golden Knights 52-33. 
Student Union Board is proud to present the National Shakespeare Company in: 
RoJl1eo 8.Jld Juliet 
March 19, 1994 8:00 Washington Hall 
Just $7 for students! 


Cushion Your Fall 
,,
this Summer at Creighton University 
• 
Nationally Recognized for Academic Excellence 

• 
Five Summer Sessions, Day/Evening Classes 

• 
Wide Course Selection 

• 
Reduced Summer Tuition 

• 
Small Classes For more information plus a '94 Summer Sessions Bulletin, call (402) 280-2843 or toll free 1-800-637-4279 



2500 California Plaza Omaha, NE 68178 
---~----------~-~-~­
Friday, March 18, 1994 The Observer • NCAA Tournament page 19 
Syracuse rallies to beat Rainbows Michigan squeaks by 
Associated Press Hawaii's Trevor Ruffin to pull play of seldom-used subs, over­away late for the win. came a miserable shooting 
Pepperdine in OT
Syracuse is back in the The Orangemen picked a night Thursday to beat Navy in 
NCAA tournament -and Lawrence Moten made sure the Orangemen stay there at least one more game. 
Moten had 29 points, includ­ing seven during a crucial sec­ond-half run, and John Wallace added 24 Thursday as Syracuse returned from a one­year tournament absence to beat pesky Hawaii 92-78 Thursday in the first round of the NCAA West Regional. 
Syracuse (22-6) had to rally from a 44-41 halftime deficit to beat the No. 13 seeded Rain­bows (18-15). who had the worst regular season record of any team in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
"The quality in the first round is so much better now that there's no easy games in this tournament," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. 
Syracuse, which had a 10­year tournament appearance streak snapped because it was on probation last year, over­came seven 3-pointers by good time to get hot, shooting 64 percent in the second half as Hawaii's defense broke down inside. 
"In the second half they tore our defense down," Hawaii coach Riley Wallace said. "We got a little leg weary and tired." 
Hawaii, making its first ap­pearance in the NCAA tourna­ment since 1972 and only its second overall, led by six points after Ruffin opened the second half the same way he opened the game -with a 3­pointer. 
"We were pressing and try­ing to make the big play," said Adrian Autry, who hads 16 for Syracuse. "We kept attacking and attacking and soon we broke it open." 
(1) Missouri 76, (16) Navy 53 
Norm Stewart had to get his team going by taking his starters off the court. 
Missouri, awakened by the the first round of the NCAA West Regional. 
It wasn't easy, though, for the top-seeded Tigers, who got 19 points from Jevon Crudup and wore down Navy in the second half. On Saturday, Mis­souri plays either Cincinnati or Wisconsin. 
Navy (17-13) remained in the game until midway in the se·cond half when Melvin Booker, held to just three points in the first 28 minutes, scored nine during a 15-6 streak. 
The subs gave Missouri (26­
3) an immediate spark, outscoring Navy 12-6 while playing nearly five full minutes before Stewart put the first team back in with 57 seconds left in the half. 
Kelly Thames scored 17 points for Missouri as did Booker, who scored 14 during the second half. 
T.J. Hall, who scored Navy's first nine points, finished with 15, while Hamilton had 14. 
Associated Press 
Michigan, trying for its third straight trip to the Final Four, scored the first six points of overtime Thursday night as it beat Pepperdine 78-74 in the first round of the NCAA West Regional. 
Two free throws by Jimmy King with 12 seconds left in overtime gave the Wolverines a 76-72 lead. Pepperdine (19­
11) missed its first four shots of overtime, including two 3­point tries as the Wolverines went ahead by six. 
Michigan (22-7), which lost the last two NCAA title games to Duke and North Carolina, advanced to a Saturday game against either Western Ken­tucky or Texas. 
Juwan Howard, who scored 28 points, pulled the Wolver­ines into a 68-68 tie with 19.5 seconds left. The game went into overtime when Damon Lopez's fallaway jumper was blocked by Jalen Rose. 
The Waves kept within reach only because they made 8 of 14 3-pointers in the sec­ond half, including five by Damin Lopez. 
Rose and Jimmy King each scored 13 points for the Wolverines. Lopez finished with 21 and Dana Jones had 15. 
(10) Maryland 74, 
(7) St, Louis 66 
Maryland freshman Joe Smith was too tall and too much for Saint Louis. 
The 6-foot-10 freshman had 29 points and 15 rebounds Thursday, leading the Terrap­ins to a victory over the small­er Billikens in the first round of the Midwest Regional. 
With Saint Louis' biggest player, 6-8 senior Evan Peder­son, limited to two minutes with a sore ankle, the Billikens tried to guard Smith with 6-3 Donnie Dobbs. It didn't work. 
"We knew we had a big 
Wefcome to 9{ptre '])ame Sopfiomore Sibilngs! 
SOPhomre Siblines Weekend Aeenda: 
fridaY.. March 18: 
1-8:15 Pill -lee Cream Social CCSC MultiPUrPOSe Rooml 
8-11 An -Orientation/Mixer and Mouie: 66RudY"" (LibrarY Auditoium 
SaturdaY.. March 19: II-? am -Pizza Picnic Cfieldhouse Mall -if rain Lafortune Ballroom * * * f eaturinl! Notre Dame Cheer1eaders and lrish Guard 1-5 Pill -free Time 
I:30 Pill -Stadium Tour (Stadium.. Gate Il 
6-8 Pill -Semi-formal Dinner (South Dininl! Halll * **Spedal Guest: Patricia O"Hara * * *Guest Speaker: Oscar McBride 
8:30 An-12 am -Dance and Raftle (lafortme Ballroom) * * * fea1urine Kareoke 
SundaY.. March 20: I 0 am -Grotto Mass (Grotto) * * *Celebrant fa1her DOYle 
II:30 am-I :30 P1D -Brunch CMeet in CCE LCU12el 
3 Pin -Panl!born Price is Ril!ht CWashinaton Hall) * * * $3 Admission fee 
We 1{ope 9'ou 'Enjoy your Wee{(ftic£! 
Sponsored 6y Sop!i011UJre Cfass Council! 
height advantage and wanted to get the ball inside," said Smith, only the fourth fresh­man in 41 years to make the All-Atlantic Coast Conference team. 
"I was the first option and if we could get the ball inside, we could score. Our players did a good job of passing around the perimeter and opening up the inside for me." 
Saint Louis guard Erwin Claggett was impressed with Smith, who was 10-of-15 from the field and 9-of-10 from the line. 
"They've got a great player in the middle, and with one great player and good role players, you can go far." Claggett said. 
Saint Louis (23-6) never re­covered from a cold-shooting first half in its first NCAA tour­nament appearance since 
"You play basketball, you're going to have some games where you don't hit your shots," said Claggett, who fm­ished with 16 points. "It's not jitters. It's just basketball." 
Johnny Rhodes scored 14 points for lOth-seeded Mary­land. 
Donnie Hobbs had 15 points for seventh-seeded Saint Louis, which shot 50 percent in the second half. 
(2) Massachusetts 78, 
(15) SW Texas St. 60 
Massachusetts gave South­west Texas State an early exit from its first NCAA tourna­ment. 
Lou Roe scored 21 points and Mike Williams added 20 as the second-seeded Minutemen cruised past the 15th-seeded Bobcats 78-60 Thursday in the first round of the Midwest Re­gional. 
From the start, it was obvi­ous the Bobcats (25-7) were no match for the Minutemen (28­6), who will play Maryland in the second round. 
Williams carried the load in the first half with 17 points. Roe, the team's top scorer, was held to five points in the first half. 
Donta Bright had 12 points, Dana Dingle 10 and Camby eight. 
page 20 
Wozniak 
continued from page 24 
sion in coming to Notre Dame," concluded Wozniak. 
It also couldn't have been a better decision for the school and men's head coach Mike DeCicco. 
"Greg is the father of this team," said DeCicco. "His ex­perience has been an invalu­able influence on the team." 
Besides experience, Wozni­ak's record displays the wide array of experience he has brought to the club. With a 45­15 mark this season and a 120­39 career record, Wozniak will be competing in his fourth in­dividual NCAA epee champi" onship this weekend. 
Another highlight in his il­lustrious career included win­ning the London Heroes tour­nament last year in Canada. Last year Greg also finished 17th in the NCAA Champi­onship and 5th in the Midwest. Two weeks ago he took second in the Midwest, losing to long­time nemesis Harold Bauder from Wayne State. Wozniak hopes to turn the tables on Bauder if he has to fence him this weekend. 
"Hopefully, I'm going to get him this time around," he com­mented. 
With the epee, a weapon which the general public may not know a lot about, Wozniak has grown to develop his own style. This weapon, as opposed to foil and sabre, allows a fencer to hit the opponent any­where and receive a point. Through this style, Wozniak feels that the weapon allows him to create a little more on his own. 
"Epee allows you to be more individual on the strip," com­mented the epee captain. "You also don't have to be very classy tobe a good epee fencer. Many unconventional epee fencers are also very good. You can stray away from certain conventions and still be very good." 
There is one convention, however, that every fencer must adhere to: training. Epee bouts often take the longest, and Wozniak feels that condi­tioning is a big part of the bouts. Running, stations, and footwork make-up a large por­tion of Wozniak's early season training regiment. However, he feels the only way to the best physical fencing condition is by continuous bouting. 
"The various exercises help a lot, but experience comes from competing in bouts on a regular basis," commented Wozniak. "There is a certain concentration level that does not exist in practice and must be maintained." 
Over the course of his time here, Wozniak also feels he has progressed in certain areas of 
.-his game. In Europe, where he originally started, the fencers are focused on more individual goals which tends to only add pressure. Here at Notre Dame, Wozniak has learned the team aspect of his craft and that in turn has made him a better fencer. "I have learned to relax more and have not put as much pressure on myself as I used to," said Wozniak. "Greg is probably one of the most mature young men I have coached in all my years here," said DeCicco. "Coach Auriol and I feel that Greg is one of 
~--~--------------­
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 18, 1994 
the best fencers in the U.S." 
Looking to the future, Woz­niak feels that the team must receive more scholarships in addition to the one it has now to give to world-class fencers in order to keep the program at the level it is at now. 
"Without the scholarships to give, all the programs will be­come more and more compara­tive, when top fencers will be lured away to other schools," he added. 
However, these lack of scholarships have provided the incentive to work harder. The coaches and the fencers have all taken on this burden to in­still a great spirit in the teams that Wozniak has been a part of. 
"Everyone has contributed to achieve the national spotlight we have now," said Wozniak. "We now have a chance to translate that hard work into a gold medal and a national championship." 
DON'T Drink 
& 
Drive! 
Green Bay stuns Cal, 61-57 
ByBOBMIMS 
Associated Press 
OGDEN, Utah 
Jeff Nordgaard made sure sports fans realize there'-s more to Green Bay than the Packers. 
The sophomore center scored 24 points and grabbed nine rebounds as Wisconsin­Green Bay upset 16th-ranked California 61-57 Thursday in the first round of NCAA West Regional. 
"When it comes down the stretch, I want to have the ball," said Nordgaard, who also had nine rebounds. "I was looking forward to the (inside) play and taking the shot." 
John Martinez added 13 points, including three 3-point­ers, for the Phoenix (27 -6), who practice across the street from the city's famous NFL team. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay, on its second trip ever to the NCAA tournament, plays 15th-ranked Syracuse on Saturday. 
"I don't have words to de­scribe it," Phoenix coach Dick Bennett said. 
"I thought our mental tough­ness, our poise ... enabled us to hold on." 
Lamond Murray had 18 points and Jason Kidd 12 ­and both had 11 rebounds ­as the Golden Bears (22-8) shot 
JPW 
Love, Mom and Dad Wensinger 

"DAZZLING! 
The screen shimmers with glowing young faces voluptuous limbs, breakneck horsemen. Branagb Is a crossbreed ofCagnry and Olivier. • 
··jack Kroll, NEWSWEEK Magazine 
KENNETH BRANAGH MICHAEL KEATON ROBERT SEAN LEONARD KEANU REEVES .,, EMMA THOMPSON DENZEL WASHINGTON 
A KENNETH BRANAGH FILM 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 CALL 631-7361 FOR TIMES AND DATES FOR ALL CINEMA AT THE SNITE FILMS 
just 34 percent. 
Kidd, who committed five of his six turnovers in the second half, took the loss especially hard. 
"Whenever we made a run, I'd throw the ball away," he said. "I take the blame for this because I believe it was my fault." 
California coach Todd Boze­man said Wisconsin-Green Bay's control of the tempo ­imposing its patient halfcourt attack in place of the Golden Bears' running game -de­termined the outcome. 
"They can shoot, they can pass and they can handle the ball," he said. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay, which shot 46 percent, led by nine points at halftime. 
The Phoenix, seeded 12th in the Regional, used a 15-6 run over the first four minutes of the second half, keyed by eight points from Nordgaard, to go ahead 47-29. 
California, in the NCAAs for the eighth time, came back with a 21-3 run. Kidd drove for two layups and Monty Buckley got inside for two more; Anwar McQueen's driving hook with 
6:41 remaining gave the Golden Bears the lead at 51-50. 
But Nordgaard wouldn't let go. Working first inside for two buckets and then making a baseline jumper with 35 sec­onds to go, he regained the lead for the Phoenix at 59-57. 
After Kidd missed from the top of the key with 14.8 sec­onds left, Martinez made two free throws. 
In the final six seconds, Kidd again missed and Murray's 3­point attempt just before the buzzer also went awry. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay frus­trated fifth-seeded Cal into 0­for-8 shooting and seven turnovers in the game's open­ing 10 minutes. 
The Phoenix built a 16-2 lead on a trio of Nordgaard buckets and 3-pointers by Martinez and Eric Jackson. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay led 21­7 when Martinez lobbed in his second 3-pointer and Nordgaard got a tip-in about two minutes later. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement and resume to Beth Regan by Wednesday March 23, 5:00pm. 
For additional information ~ontact Beth at 631-4540. 
ActFast 
Come to the Center for Social Concerns to find out about A VOLUNTEER TEACHING SERVICE PROGRAM Archdiocese ofNew York 
Sister Deanna Sabetta, Director, will be at the CSC to answer questions and accept applications would like to teach in an inner · city high school 
Sign up at the CSC for an interview Monday, March 21 10:00-5:00 Tuesday, March 22 10:00-2:00 
A chance ofa lifetime! 


257 .-1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Przrty Subs 
For Fast Delivery Call 273 --2EAT 
$ 2 offlarge pizza with Student ID 
Friday, March 18, 1994 The Observer· SMC SPORTS page 21 
Saint Mary's softball to open against Concordia 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off of a 7-3 performance in Fort Meyers, Florida, over spring break, the Saint Mary's softball team is expect­ing good things tomorrow when they play host to Concordia College in their regular season opener. 
"Everyone did an outstanding job last week," Belles coach Don Cromer said. 
"Judging by the way everyone is working and what they want, I think that this is going to be a very successful season." 
In addition to regular practices, the team has been setting aside extra time to work on specific skills. 
This extra effort paid off over spring training, highlighted by a 2-1 victory over Division I rival LaSalle University. 
This strong showing, however. was not without consequence for the Belles, as two players returned home injured. These injuries look to be the biggest obstacles facing the Belles going into tomorrow's game. 
Sophomore pitcher Michelle Limb, who was 4-1 last week, hurt her arm and is questionable for tomorrow's out-
ing. 
Senior catcher Jane Murphy joins Limb on the injured list with a knee injury. Cromer noted that she is doubt­ful for the game. 
"We'd rather give Jane a break early in the season and only lose her for one or two games instead of losing her for more later in the season," he explained. 
Heading into the season, the Belles will once again look to returning tri­captains Stacy Bogataj, Sara Miller and Murphy for leadership in their quest for victory. 
The three make up the only seniors on an under class dominated team, which has six sophomores. six freshmen and only two juniors. 
Last year the Belles defeated Concordia in both match ups, but Cromer noted that Concordia is return­ing a pitcher that may cause problems for the Belles. 
Despite the obstacles, Cromer believes that his team is prepared both physical­ly and mentally. 
"We played outstanding last week and in all but one game we were men­tally ready to play and went after it from the beginning." 
Forn1er Hurricane official sentenced to three years 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
A former official with the University of Miami athletic de­partment was sentenced Thursday to three years in fed­eral prison after two football players testified about how he worked a financial aid scam. 
Anthony Russell, former as­sistant director of the universi­ty's academic support unit, pleaded guilty last June to a federal fraud charge in an in­vestigation involving 91 student athletes. 
Russell, 45, secured 
$240,263 in fraudulent Pell Grant payments for the Univer­sity of Miami. Most of the money went to student athletes, many of them football players. 
Russell was accused of forg­ing forms for the program, which provides grants to needy students. He also was accused of exacting cash payments of $85 to $100 from each student as fees for the grants. 
"The money obtained wrongly became spending money used (by student ath­letes) to buy beer and food and purchase electronics and other luxury items and subsidized 
T""Wo essential ingredients for a perfect date: 
A date and this. 

It's everywhere )IOU "\vant to be:· 
<1:> Visa U.S.A. Inc. 1994 
travel," Assistant U.S. Attorney Martin Goldberg said in a pre­sentence memorandum. 
Lawrence "Rusty" Medearis, who played defensive end for the Hurricanes for 3 1/2 years before being injured in 1992, testified that he bought a 
motorcycle with the funds. He said two other players ­Bryan Fortay and Jason Marucci -put him in touch with Russell, who filled out forms for him, then charged him $85 as a "late registration fee." 
"I was walking on air for awhile," Medearis said. 
Roy Kahn, Russell's attor­ney, said his client used the money to help other people. But Goldberg, the prosecutor, said Russell "didn't use that money to help people, he used that to support his cocaine habit." 
In May 1991, Russell en­tered a plea of no contest for possession of cocaine. He was placed on one year's probation and lost his job at the univer­sity. 
''I'm glad it's over," Russell said in court Thursday. "What I did was wrong. I accept full responsibility. It's been a hard three years ... This is the hap­piest day of my life." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

• 

1'"" 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 18, 1994 
Irish ready for Sycamore Classic 


The Observer/ Sean Farnan Catcher Sara Hayes and the Irish hope to regroup with a strong 
by MEGAN McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team is looking to regroup after a tough spring break trip to the South with some regional compe­tition this weekend. 
Saturday and Sunday Notre Dame travels to Indiana State to face the host Sycamores, Evansville and Valparaiso in the Sycamore Classic. 
Thursday's home opener against Bowling Green has been canceled and will be rescheduled at a later date. 
Coach Liz Miller is excited about Notre Dame's chances. "We've been looking forward to this weekend, the weather is sup­posed to be good, and we're very excited to play against teams in our region." 
Miller thinks the team is more prepared this week than it was at the start of spring break. "We've
showing at Indiana State. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer 
631-5323 
They're Back ••• 
.. 0 
-
ZC:C :EN
ON 
CD. 
VZZid S,ONIWOO 
AT LAST, 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY PATRICK 
Love, Mom, Dad, Mike, Meghan&Clancy 
been practicing outside on dirt and we played such tough compe­tition over spring break that I know we are ready to go." 
Junior catcher Sara Hayes, the team's leader batter at .372, is healthy after spraining an ankle in the Missouri Tournament and looks to lead the Irish offensively. Classmate Liz Goetz will also con­tribute. Goetz was the leading hitter over spring break, pounding out ten hits, including a 4-5 per­formance as a pinch hitter, bring­ing her average up to .323. 
Sophomore All-America candi­date Terri Kobata will lead the Irish from the mound. Kobata has a 2.22 ERA and is limiting oppos­ing batters to a .206 average. Her 72 strikeouts, at an average of 
10.65 game, are above her num­bers for last season, in which she was the NCAA's strikeout leader. 
Last season the Irish shut-out Indiana State in a home double­header 6-0 and 2-0. In the first game Kobata set a Notre Dame record with 16 strikeouts allowed just one hit en route to victory. Carrie Miller followed Kobata with a two-hit shut-out in the nightcap. 
Kobata was the star for Irish in their only game last year against Valparaiso, again throwing a one­hit shut-out as Notre Dame tri­umphed 4-0. The games against Evansville were canceled last sea­son, but Notre Dame leads the series 8-1. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
NOTRE DAME LACROSSE 
Notre Dame vs. University of New Hampshire Saturday, 3/19 --2:00pm FREE ADMISSION 
Loftus Center or Carter Field 
NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame vs. Western Michigan Sunday, 3/20 --1:00pm Eck Tennis Pavilion 
OMINAXOB 
., ... 
~rs y,v-f,l\'Y DA• ••• 
0. 
SPECTACUlAR •....... • SLICES Orderwithyour
3 . 
[J:[]rn~ favorite toppings. Over 2feet long. CARRY-GUT PIZZA 30 inches...That's almost ayard of pizza. 

D
OMINATOB 
~YS 
SPECIAL 
CHEESE 
DOMINATOR 
$799 
EXTRA TOPPINGS... $t.SOEACH 
DOMINATOR DELIVERED TO STUDENTS ONLY 
TOPPINGS 
ONIONS • GREEN PEPPER • PEPPERONI MUSHROOMS • BLACK OLIVES • BEEF HAM • CHEDDAR CHEESE • HOT PEPPERS SAUSAGE • BACON • PINEAPPLE 
EXTRAS 
TWISTY BREAD & DIPPING SAUCE ... 99¢ Garlic Sauce or Pizza Sauce Available Upon Request 
COKE or DIET COKE ... 65¢ I can 1.95/2-liter 
Va~d at panidpafing stores only. Not valid wilh any olher offer. Prices may vary Customer pays sales fax where applicotje Delivery areos lim1fed to ens!Xe safe driving. OUr dnvers corry less than $20 00. Our drivers ore not pena"zed fet late deliveries. 1994 South Bend Pizzo Corp. I.Jmtted Time Offer 
..---------­
Friday, March 18, 1994 SPELUNKER 
The Observer • TODAY 
JAY HOSLER 

--~----· -~------------­
page 23 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



• 
BILL WATTERSON 
00'1. l.'IJE. LtJ>..R\IlED til~ L~! n\\5 Dl\~ \-\!\':> 13£.£.~ I'-IOT\-\\1'-\G 13\l\ DR~II..D. A~t> I CG\llD'~~ 
A'4011l£'i) \I 1>.\.L! \-\t.\Q '3\\E CGM'c5 .' GmDB'<E, WORLO.' 

1-\ow A&<>uT yov !4low, "So"'E. "Boe '""'fi:IE.~tis fY1oii.E. To 
(Y\AR.LE."\'? Re.bbAE.T.IAf-1 Ius,­1 "Boa f'tlMdE>.j. lHER.E.s 

~o~ "'\1;TER
1
Sv~E . WW.,­
K•"'"" "'t>o ~ov 
vJJ\NT· 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Digital clock's 50 Health org. light emitter 51 Film makers' 
1 Started 30 La Plata locale: equipment
wrongly? Abbr. 53 Certain
9 Mouse 31 Gary degrees: Abbr. 
15 Number after 1? 
Cooper-ish? 54 Crumples16 Ravel's "­33 Like "The 56 Aeronauticalfor a Dead Persistence of inclinationPrincess" Memory" 58 Army command17 Is in the running 37 6-0, courtesy of 59 Casts an 18 Unimak Island Steffi absentee ballot 
inhabitants 38 Immortal Pirate 60 Designer
19 Home folks 40 French sea Norman
20 Adriatic seaport 
Bel­
41 It's bound to 61 TV address, in 22 Endangered show the way shortwhale 
23 African tyrant 42 Site north of and namesakes Frederick, Md. 
25 Like a wolf's 47 Emblem on an DOWN howl English shield· 1 Cut the mustard 
26 Furnish 48 Fabulous 2 Cheap jewelry 
finish? material27 Legal 
landmarks 49 Stories 
3Anyone's game? 4Angkor­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
s Noted rapper 6 Host of a short-lived talk 
show 7 Swirls 8 Utah's early 
name • 9 Outpouring 
10 Hearty accompani­ment? 
:+:+.':+=-i 11 "-Gotta Be Me" 12 Upset 13Double­14 Junk-mail addressee 
DAVE KELLETT 
::)f{ou._..;.,e. 'S£e.N ~P.T (omoN(,. 0 

39 Frostbite 48 Acts hangdog preventers 
51 Early actress 43 Ecole employee Eleanora 
44 Scroll-shaped '52 God of ornament destruction 
45 Decrees 55 Downcast 
46Havean 57 Name in aversion to voyeurism 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
21 A rug 241984 Jeff 
Bridges role 26 Not loose 28 Manitoba 
Indians 29 Went under 32 Puts a wrap on 33 No-goodnik 34 Superlative 35 Fed the Colt 
again 36 Maj.'s superior 


1rircru § Ihl tlhle 
STUDENT UNION 110.\D
9pm-1:30pm w/ Circruven 
crazy stuffand more! 
SPORTS 
page 24 
Irish eager, prepared for the challenge 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
If history is on the side of the Irish fencers this weekend at the NCAA Championships, Notre Dame will have a 50-50 chance to win the title. 
Only the Irish and Penn State have qualified all four weapons for the team competi­tion at Brandeis University which gets underway today. No team has ever won the championship without having all four weapons entered. However, this fact has not given much comfort to men's head coach Mike DeCicco. 
"That doesn't mean any­thing to me," said DeCicco. "We have to come out and fence the way we have been all year." 
The Irish will have to fence well right from the start due to the format of the team competition. Each team is placed in a pool where they will fence each other in a round-robin style competition. Using the results from that competition, the teams will then be re-seeded and put into 
a direct elimination bracket
• 
from which a winner will emerge. 
"In order to keep the seeds we have been designated, the round-robin competition is crucial," added DeCicco. 
Out of the twelve teams in women's foil from the east, southeast, midwest, and west, the lady Irish received the sec­ond seed. 
On the men's side, sabre obtained the fourth seed, epee the sixth, and foil the third out of eight men's teams. The Nittany Lions captured the #1 seeds in all the weapons, but epee. There, Wayne State was rated top dog, even though the Irish defeated them at the Mid­west Championships. 
"The NCAA's looked at the whole season and they beat us in a regular season meet in Detroit," said DeCicco. "Overall though, the committee was pretty good to us this year." 
Aside from the team compe­tition, Notre Dame will be sending 12 fencers into the in­dividual meets which coincide with the team bouts. These 12 include Jeremy Siek, Stan Brunner, and Conor Power in 
Friday, March 18, 1994 

men's foil; Claudette De Bruin, Corinne Dougherty, and Mindi Kalogera in women's foil; Bill Lester, Chris Hajnik, and Bernard Baez in sabre; and Greg Wozniak, Rian Girard, and Rakesh Patel in epee. Maria Panyi also qualified, but is ineligible to compete in the NCAA's until next year. 
Besides Panyi's ineligibility, the women's foil team will be further weakened this weekend by losing senior captain Didi Garda who injured her calf last week in practice. Senior Mon­ica Wagner will be taking Gar­cia's place. Junior foilist Conor Power has been bothered by a sore hip all week, but is ex­pected to fence in both individ­ual and team bouts. 
"Despite the injuries, this team is mentally focused for the meet," commented DeCicco. "We have been preparing for this all season and are eager for the chal­lenge." 
The Irish have yet to face Penn State this year due to the cancellation of their February 12th meet in Philadelphia be­cause of asnowstorm . 
"We definitely would have liked to fenced them before the NCAA's, but its just an unfortu­nate thing," said DeCicco. "I am really proud of this team and all that they have accom­plished. They have showed a lot of heart and determination and we're excited to get the competition underway." 
Poland native Wozniak one of the best at the epee 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer , 
What's all that whispering about? Oh my gosh, could it be true? 
That's right. The fencing team is unde­feated and in good position to win an 

NCAA Championship. Greg Wozniak 
Even though it may not be a well-known fact around cam­pus, the Irish fencing team is on course and ready to bring a national champi­onship to Notre Dame this year. 
As part of their quiet excellence throughout the season, every victory has been a result of complete team efforts at each meet. Standouts have been few and far between. Hard Work and consistency since early November have constituted the benchmarks of this squad. 
No fencer may better embody this standard of hard work than senior epee captain Greg Wozniak. 
Wozniak has always had to work at his fencing, considering he joined the sport when he was in the seventh grade in his homeland of Poland. A friend of the family, who-happened to be a national champion fencer and coach, got Greg involved at a relatively young age. , 
The sport was often confusing to; his parents at first, but they remained sup­portive of their son's ambitions. 
"My mom had a hard time under­standing it at first, but both my parents were always supportive of me," said Wozniak. 
Four years later Wozniak and his father moved to Chicago where Greg attended Foreman High School on the northwest side. However, Greg main­tained his competitive spirit by fencing at various clubs in the city. There, Wozniak met respected coaches in the field, while also fencing on the national circuit. He has now made the top-24's on two separate occasions. 
"The national circuit is challenging," said Wozniak. "Many of the fencers there are internationally tested. They train only for those events. In the U.S. though, there are many time conflicts with college in competing." 
When it was time to decide on a col­lege, Notre Dame provided a logical choice for Wozniak. 
"Coming from Poland and being Catholic was a big factor," he added. "Notre Dame also gave me the best combination of academics and fencing. Being close to my dad in Chicago was also a big advantage." 
Through Notre Dame, Greg has also been able to return home to Poland and visit his mother. Wozniak has traveled with the Notre Dame Consul on International Business Development back to his homeland, allowing him to join the Polish National team for a while and train with some of the best fencers in the world. 
"I couldn't have made a better deci­
see Wozniak I page 20 
Saint Mary's tennis begins with an impressive 5-1 record 
By TARA KRULL "We were still recovering "However, we all played ex­ensure a nationals bid. noted that the bottom ladder Sports Writer from the long trip down during tremely well and established "We've missed nationals by has shown great improvement the first match," junior Nancy ourselves as a solid team." one bid several times now," thus far and that the freshman 
The Saint Mary's tennis team Waibel said. "I don't think we Senior co-captain Thayma Darby said. "If we continue to class will be major contributors began their regular season play gave it our all." Darby explained that it was im­play like we did last week, we for the Belles this season. last week during break in The Belles sought revenge in portant for the Belles to make a will at least have a good chance The Belles were to have faced Hilton Head, South Carolina. their second match as they de­strong showing last week, the this year." Saint Joseph's College this Sat­Their early 5-l record appears feated their biggest rival, beginning of their season, to Mary Cosgrove, also a senior urday, but the match was can­to be an excellent indicator of Haverford College. They went have a shot at a bid for nation­and capt,ain for the Belles celed. They will resume com­what to expect this season. on to defeat Swarthmore Col­als. Their record thus far will agreed with Darby. petition next Tuesday at 
After a rough first match in lege and Catholic University as hopefully guarantee Saint "There is definitely a good Manchester College. Hilton Head, the Belles came well. Mary's a spot at the Midwest chance of achieving a shot at "Until then, we'll practice back strong and went on to de­"We were expecting both Invitational in Wisconsin next Nationals after last week's vic­even more and look forward to feat their remaining five oppo­Swarthmore and Catholic to be month. Placing first or second torious outcomes." more victories and further im­nents. great challenges," Waibel said. at this invitational would Cosgrove and Darby also provements," Cosgrove said. 

.. 

