


Friday, September 16, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 15 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton to Haiti's leaders: 'Your time is up' 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In a terse ultimatum from the Oval Office, President Clinton told Haiti's military leaders Thursday night, "Your time is up. Leave now or we will force you from power." 
Against a chorus of opposi­tion, Clinton used a prime time address to build his case for an 
American invasion of Haiti to expel a military regime that stole power and stands accused of 3,000 political murders. 
"We must act," Clinton said from the Oval Office. 
But he said that the United States' mission in Haiti would be "limited and specific" to "remove the dictators from power and restore Haiti's legit­imate democratically elected government." He said U. S. forces would help train a civil­ian police force, but he would not get involved in rebuilding Haiti. 
Clinton said the "vast majority of our troops will come home in months, not years." Upwards of 20,000 U.S. forces were mobi­lized for the invasion. 
The president sought to ex­plain why American lives should be risked to restore de­posed President Jean-Bertrand Aristide after three years in ex­ile. He noted that than 20 na­tions have pledged to contribute to a police force. 
Americans overwhelmingly oppose and invasion, according to polls, and there is wide­spread opposition in Congress among Republicans and Democrats alike. The White House acknowledged Clinton couldn't turn around public opinion with one speech. 
"I assure you that no presi­
dent makes decisions like this 
one without deep thought and 
prayer," the president said. 
"But it is my job as president 
and commander in chief to take 
Aristide awaits Invasion 
By PIERRE-YVES GLASS 
Associated Press 
A virulent anti-American during his days as a leftist parish priest, exiled Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide now must rely on the United States to get him back home. 
For most of his three years in exile, he strenuously object­ed to the idea of being restored to power by an American inva­sion force. 
No doubt he will return with mixed feelings about being borne home by Washington's troops. 
Some Americans also have mixed feelings about Aristide, based on the darker moments in his remarkable, turbulent rise to power. 
Aristide, 41, was born into a farming family in Port Salut, on the southwestern coast. 
He moved with his mother to Port-au-Prince as a child when his father died. 
He became a prize pupil in a Catholic school run by Salesian monks, where he developed a deep feeling for Haiti's poor and repressed. 
As a Salesian brother in the late 1980s, he lived among Port-au-Prince slum dwellers, who became his army of ardent followers. They viewed him as a prophet; he survived several assassination attempts. contributing to his aura. 
He was among the bold few in Haiti who denounced the Duvalier family dictatorship and the generals who replaced it in 1986. 


those actions that I believe will In a CBS interview, Cedras said, best protect our national secu­"I will fight with my people and rity interests." I am prepared to die." 
Administration sources said 

Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras, leader one final option is to dispatch of the military Junta, cautioned an emissary to try to persuade the United States not to invade. Cedras to leave. "It's strictly a tactical decision, whether they think it has any chance," a source said, insisting on anonymity. 
In Washington and in the 
see HAITI I page 4 


NO grad takes reigns in Panama 
Inherits slew of domestic problems 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 
For years, as a member of the self-proclaimed "Notre Dame Gang," Double Domer Ernesto Perez Balladares, NO '67 and '69, has participated in annual reunions with his closest friends from Notre Dame. Two weeks ago, the college friends gathered once again, this time in Perez Balladares' home country of Panama. 
But the 1994 reunion was dif­ferent from any of the others. 
In addition to reminiscing and catching up with each other, the members of the Notre Dame Gang witnessed the in­auguration of Perez Balladares, one of their own, as the new President of Panama. 
Perez Balladares, a Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRO) candidate, took office September 1 after defeating three other presidential candi­dates in the May election. 
These elections marked the first free, democratic voting in Panama since the American in­vasion in 1989. That military operation resulted in the arrest of then-dictator General Manuel Antonio Noriega and the designation of Guillermo Endara as the n~w president of Panama. Endara's term expired this year. 
One of Perez Balladares' most formidable obstacles during his campaign was his party affilia­tion. Noriega was also a PRO president, and his corrupt and oppressive leadership methods have not fallen far from the minds of the Panamanian peo­ple. But during the election Perez Balladares consistently downplayed his relationship with Noriega and drew himself closer in the eyes of the public to the founder of the PRO, General Omar Torrijos Herrera. Noriega took over Panama after Torrijos was killed in a plane crash. 
"The PRO image became very bad because of the association with Noriega," said Father Ernest Bartell, executive direc­tor of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and one of Balladares' former economics professors. 
Noriega was convicted in the United States of eight counts of drug trafficking, money laun­dering, and racketeering. He is currently serving a 40-year sentence. What some people forget, however, is that Perez Balladares did not follow Noriega blindly, said Bartell. 
"Perez Balladares had a falling-out with Noriega at one time and packed up his family and went to Spain for a year," Bartell said. 
Despite widespread suspicion of his association with the PRO party, Perez Balladares re­ceived the most votes with over 30 percent of the electorate. In his inaugural speech, the new president reaffirmed the major points of his campaign. 


"He gave a wonderful speech," said Bartell. "It was more of a state of the union address than a victory speech." 
United States Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt, a 1960 Notre Dame alumnus, and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Henry Cisneros attended the inaugu­ration. Cisneros is a former University trustee. 
The issues of poverty, eco­nomic development, educa­tional reform, and the necessity of eliminating corrupt and ille­gal practices from the govern­ment highlighted President 
see PANAMA I page 4 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Friday, September 16, 1994 
'-,
-.._.._ --. 

.. 
--~-----------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 16, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

WVFI AM gets ready to rock the campus 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Associate News Editor 
Get ready to rock-because WVFI is giving campus a wake­up call at 7:30a.m. Monday. 
And this year, the station has aims of attracting a larger audi­ence as it roles through the fall semester, according to Station Manager Steven Sostak. Concerts have been planned, new shows are already slated and a wide variety of music waits poised on the turntables. 
"One of the big things we want to do is to increase the overall musical awareness on campus," Sostak said. 
"Now people know we exist thanks to a big time ad cam­paign." 
WVFI-640 on your AM dial­hopes to boost listenership by keeping with cutting edge 
•'-1 
'. 
trends in the music industry by creating new specialty shows. Reggae, hip-hop, spoken word and poetry are just a few of the new shows. Sostak said. 
"We're going to do this show called 'Barf,'" Sostak said. "A couple of guys went down to Goodwill and got some of the worst stuff they could find on vinyl." 
The station has also put to­gether a concert series with the help of the Student Union Board (S.U.B.). 
This newly christened Loft Concert Series will bring some of the hottest independent label bands to the LaFortune Ballroom this semester. Tickets for each show will be sold for $1. 
"I like to use the analogy that these bands are like amateur baseball teams,.. said Ted 



~N ESA 
~~  ~1): 
--....;  0  
~  Spanish Mass  r­ 

domingo, 18 de Septiembre de 1994 
11:30 a.m. St. Edward's Hall Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Patrick Neary, c.s.c. 

Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 


Uebler, WVFI's advertising and promotions director. 
"It's not all artificial turf and gold chains. The stuff we're bringing in is the real thing." 
For example, the major-label band Toad the Wet Sprocket, will be playing Stepan Center this fall. WVFI brought Toad to campus three years ago in a se­ries similar to the Loft. 
"That just goes to show the type of bands we're trying to bring in," Sostak said. "So in that way you could say we're going after bands that are up and coming." 
Cub, an all-female quartet from Chicago, kicks off the se­ries Sept. 23. 
The Roadapples, winner of Notre Dame's battle of the bands last spring, will be the opener. 
The Smoking Popes play Oct. 7; Chisel, Nov. 5; and Trenchmouth, Dec. 2. Various campus bands will open for each show. 
WVFI has also worked out a weekly program where Student Body President David Hungeling will be the host. Students, faculty and staff are welcome to call in and talk to Hungeling about whatever is on their minds, Sostak said. 
WVFI will also be hosting a weekly sports call-in show on Sunday nights from 7:30 to 
8:30. The show will be broad­cast from the basement of LaFortune. 
"Our first show which is scheduled for the 25th of this month will feature the two new assistant football coaches, David Roberts and Bob Davies," said Ken Maverick, WVFI sports director. 
"Then we'll have Ron Powlus the following week." 
The station has also set goals for converting to an FM fre­quency. This fall they are mak­ing a pledge to themselves, the students and the administration to make WVFI a fully opera­tional FM station by the fall of 1995. 
"We're challenging the University, the students and ourselves to make it happen," Sostak said. 
"The best we we'll get it done is by students listening and showing interest in our broad­casts." 
WVFI broadcasts daily from 
7:30 a.m. to 1:45 a.m. They take requests anytime off their music-line (1-6400). 


Seigfried: Education is not passive 
By BETH VAN TIEM 
News Writer 
Direction, control and guid­ance should stand as the three most defined roles in educa­tion, according to philosopher Charlene Haddock Seigfried in a lecture last night at Carroll Auditorium. 
The root of Seigfried's work stems from theories originated by the philosopher John Dewey. 
Seigfried, a professor of phi­losophy at Purdue University, began her lecture stressing the importance of women referring to themselves as "we" and working together as a team. 
Entitled, "The Constant 
reweaving of the Social Fabric: A Pragmatist Feminist Account," her lecture focused on knowledge and learning in a social medium. 
Currently writing her third book, "Pragmatist Feminism," she shared a few excerpts on related issues of education. 
"Education is not passive, but allows persons to transform their environment," she said. 
She believes insights from the past enable society to solve today's problems. 
Last night's Sesquicentennial lecture was not Seigfried's sole contribution to the learning process at Saint Mary's College. While sitting in on a few classes Thursday, she shared some insight on Dewey's philosophies and evolutionary theories. 
Seigfried earned her bachelor of arts degree from Marymount College in California and her doctorate from Loyola University in Chicago. 
She specializes in such areas as American philosophy, femi­nist theory, women's studies and American studies. 
She is currently preparing entries for the Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy on Great Chain of Being, George Herbert Mead, Thomas Paine, Pragmatism, Josiah Royce, Henry David Thoreau, and Transcendentalism. 
IF YOU SEE NEWS HAPPENING, CALL THE OBSERVER 
ART PRINT &POSTER SALE 
Sponsored by LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
FEATURING: 
• Prints of Master Artists 
(Including the works of Dali, Gauguin, Ivmdinsky, Matisse, Miro, Monet, O'Keeffe, Picasso, Remington, Renoir, &Van Gogh, plus many others) 
• 
Personality Posters 

• 
Rock Bands 

• 
Black & White Photography 


• Contemporary Posters 
• Framed Prints 

DATES: TODAY Thru FRIDAY TIME: 9:30 A.M. • 6:00 P.M. PLACE: NOTRE DAME ROOM (2nd FLOOR), LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 

: . . 

3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $17! 
I 

~----­
.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ----­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 16, 1994 
-


((;tlravelmore 
~ ~Carlson Travel Network 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
"'Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. "'Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! No service fee! "'Car Rentals Discounted car rentals! Timetables, prices, tickets available! 
"'Experience Over 20 years experience working with Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. 
We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­(219) 271-4880 
posed creating this national 
government which would inter­act with the major sectors of continued from page 1 the nation." McGrath, who is also an alum­

PanaDla 
Perez Balladares' address. 
nus of the University, recently
"It is essential that we now 

retired after serving 25 years asclose the unfortunate chapter of 
Archbishop. Throughout histhe Noriega era," said Perez time as the primary Catholic
Balladares in his inaugural 
leader in Panama and especial­speech. He endorsed non-parti­ly in his dealings with the gov­
san and honest cooperation 
ernment, McGrath was a con­between politicians, and a re­
stant voice of the poor and 
turn to a "noble, wholesome" oppressed. McGrath is hopefulmethod of civic leadership. 
that Perez Balladares will be
"Modernity means honesty," able to control the militaristic

said President Perez 
elements in the PRO and focusBalladares. 
on the needs of the people of Panama.
Since Perez Balladares has 
"The problem is that there are
taken office, Latin American 
some members of his party who
analysts and scholars have 
are anxious to reap the profitsbeen encouraged by his initial of his electoral victory and whocabinet appointments and pol­
might not be as open to a
icy decisions. 
national approach," said
"Perez Balladares has taken McGrath. "Time will tell how

fine first steps," said Father 
much he is able to control hisRobert Pelton, faculty fellow at own party and other contribu­the Kellogg Institute and repre­tors."
sentative for Latin 
"He has set out to really re­

American/North America constitute democracy in
Church Concerns (LANACC). 
Panama, but we still need to
Pelton was one of 12 interna­wait and see," said Bartell.
tional observers sponsored by "Everyone is excited but no one
the Panamanian Catholic 
is quite sure if it can be pulledChurch at the May elections. 
off."
Perez Balladares has attracted both the "best and the brightest A number of Notre Dame grad­in Panama" to his cabinet and 
uates are serving in the new
committees, according to administration in some ca­
Bartell. By looking beyond the pacity. Stanley Muschett, presi­
PRO, the new president has 
dent of the Catholic Universitybeen able to assemble a solid 
of Panama and a 1984 Notre
administration. 
Dame graduate, will be chair­man of a high-profile commit­
"He has formed a cabinet tee on education. Federico
which is a national cabinet," Humbert, who graduated fromformer Panamanian Archbishop 
the University in 1955, will
Marcos McGrath said. "In the serve on a committee on foreigncampaign he consistently pro-investment. Humbert is consid-

WHICH WAY IS UP? 

ered one of the most successful have to go in." bankers in Panama. In forceful, measured words,
Haiti 

Approximately 90 Notre Dame Clinton said, "The message of graduates reside in Panama. continued from page 1 the United States to the Haitian dictators is clear: Your time is Caribbean, every sign is point­up. Leave now or we will force
Perez Balladares graduated 
ed to an invasion within a mat­you from power." 
from the University of Notre 
ter of days. One high ranking
Dame with a B.A. in Economics official said an invasion was Twenty American warshipsin 1967. He completed his M.A. 
not likely before Monday. ominously shadowed Haiti's 
in Finance at Notre Dame in 
coast, and two troop-laden air­1969, and then proceeded to William Gray, U.S. special en­craft carriers were on the way, receive another Masters in voy to Haiti, said "There will be expected to be on station by the Finance at the Wharton School a firm deadline" for Cedras to weekend." of Finance and Commerce at surrender power but that it the University of Pennsylvania. would not be publicly an­Following the speech, Senate Perez Balladares worked in the nounced "because we're not Majority Leader Bob Dole said private sector for many years going to jeopardize Amli!rican "Obviously we'll support the 
lives and our military in case American forces and hope andas a businessman and also held the multinational force does pray that nobody is injured." 
several governmental positions. 
FBI disputes sabotage claims 
Associated Press a tragic victim along with 131 said. other victims," FBI spokesman PITTSBURGH Charles Mandigo said. Prosperi would not disclose 
The FBI disputed any sugges­any details of the case he had tion Thursday that USAir Flight Investigators said they have discussed with Olson, saying 427 was sabotaged to silence a found no evidence a bomb or only that Olson had agreed to drug informant aboard. other means of sabotage caused cooperate in exchange for a 
Earlier Thursday, it was dis­the crash, in which the jet reduced sentence. Prosperi and closed that one of the passen­dropped out of the sky and Mandigo said Olson was not gers killed in the Sept. 1 crash, slammed into a ravine, killing under federal protection. 
34-year-old Paul Olson, had everyone on board. The cause spent the last day of his life is still unknown. Investigators on Thursday with federal prosecutors in continued examining the 
Chicago, discussing testimony Olson was released from wreckage for clues to the cause in an upcoming drug trial. prison earlier this year after of the crash. They have taken serving nearly five years for nearly all of the twisted pieces "There is nothing to indicate cocaine trafficking, Assistant to a hangar near the Pittsburgh 
that he was anything other than U.S. Attorney Mark Prosperi airport. 
Friday, September 16, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Kabat brings plight of battered women to film 
By ROSANNA D' The 1993 Academy Award ALESSANDRO winner for best documentary News Writer on a short subject, Kabat in­troduced her documentary, 
After a life of devotion to the "Defending Our Uves," by out­rights of battered women, hu­lining her life story and man rights activist Stacey describing why she was driven Kabat has channeled her efforts to document severe cases of into film. Sh"e showed her abuse as a means of educating award-winning film in people. Washington Hall last night. Having grown up in a family 
where both her mother and 
R 
DRUNN R 
BAND 
Need§ GTUli.tari.§t and Key/board Player! 
Contacfg Jennifell' MaclksooJ 
63~-3711 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
"The experience of a lifetime" 
A TTENTI 0 N-All those interested in the Appalachia Seminar for this Fall Break!!! 
Don't forget to tum in your applications by 5 pm Tuesday, September 20 at the CSC 
Applications are still available for anyone interested 
And Remember-You'll be back in time for the game!!! 
????????Call Laura Stolpman 634-2145 or Shannon Dunn 273-0741 Angie Appleby 631-94 73 Dr. Jay Brandenberger 631-5293 
grandmother were victims of domestic abuse; Stacey Kabat became determined at a young age not to be controlled by vio­lence herself. Although she was aware of the injustice of her personal situation during that early period, she was not yet able to speak out against it. 
"At 18 or 19 years old I left home," she said. "At the time, it really was unacceptable to talk of domestic violence. It was considered a family secret, a shame. So I kept it to myself." 
At age nineteen, Kabat met two men who influenced her to devote her life to being an out­spoken human rights defender. 
"One was an old South African and the other an old Indian who had attended Ghandi's prayer meetings," she recounted. "I wanted to learn from these people and throw my energy into upholding a human rights standard." 
Her extensive experience in human rights activism has al­lowed her to channel her de­sires to combat domestic vio­lence in America in a similar fashion. 
After years of working with Amnesty International and the anti-Apartheid organization, I.D.A.F., Kabat began interning in battered women shelters in Boston. These womens' horror stories of abuse led her to con­nect her personal experience with her universal convictions on human rights and provided her with the film's inspiration. 
"I was shocked and appalled at these women, fleeing to these shelters as if they were domestic refugees," she said. "They often fled homes for fear for their lives. The shelters were like refugee camps in the Middle East, only they didn't have an international commu­nity supporting them." 
Kabat's documentary begins with a series of graphic photos 

Join the Wings Etc. Team Now Hiring 
• 
Bartender (Beer & Soda only) 

• 
Servers (Must be 21) 

• 
Cooks 

• 
Dishwasher (We have a machine!) 

• 
Hostess/Host 


Full or Part Time No experience necessary Apply within 
University Center 6502 N. Grape Rd 
273-0088 
of severely abused women and leads into a series of powerful personal testimonies by women convicted for killing their bat­terers. Her point is clear: bat­tered women in the United States are having their human rights severely violated, but the . United States is not caring enough to stand up for them. 
"There is a war against women and children in this country," she said. 
To support her claim that battered women in America are the unfortunate victims of a misogynist legal system, she listed several startling facts concerning the lack of abuse prevention laws. She noted that there are only 1,200 bat­tered women shelters in the 
U.S. today, compared to 3,800 animal protection shelters. 
Kabat also presented evi­dence that battered women convicted of killing their batter­ers are treated more harshly by the legal system than any other defendants, including accused· serial killers. These women have higher initial bails and higher sentences than others who are accused of murder un­der different circumstances. 
Kabat concluded by urging students to make a commitment to abide by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adapted by the United Nations in 1948. 
"All people have a right to human rights," she said. "It's up to us to reject violence and recognize that human rights are for home and abroad." 
Cuban 
refugees 
released 
By WILL LESTER 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Thirty-seven Cuban refugees were released from a detention center Thursday under a new federal policy that benefits chil­dren, their parents and some others. 

page 6 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 16, 1994 
NO annual FEE, nationwide ACCEPTANCE and LOW rates. Because this is a ONCE in a lifetime trip. 

If YOU ~Oti,T 60T IT,
6£T -IT.5 
M 

MEMBER/ffiJfi§/NETW~RK ©1994 Greenwood Trust Company, Member FDIQ 
r-----------~--~------------~---------------------------------------------------~----~--­
Friday, September 16, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Statue returns to first site 
By CHRISTINA CANNON News Writer 
The Statue "Christ the Teacher." was officially rededi­cated and unveiled yesterday on Saint Mary's campus. The statue is now at its original site, between the Haggar College Center and Madeleva Hall, in celebration of the College's Sesquicentennial. 
At yesterday's celebration were the original artist Sister Monica Gabrielle and Joan Hemingway, the 1955 senior class president. Both were both present at the original dedica­tion. 
The statue was first dedicated on January 20, 1955 in celebration of the college's Centennial. At that time the statue was placed at its present site, but was moved to the island of Lake Marian in 1984. 
The harsh winters wore away at the concrete statue, so Hank Mascotte, a South Bend resi­dent, remodeled it this year with the artist's assistance. 
Gabrielle, a student of Father Anthony Lauk, was asked to create the statue with the theme "I have come to cast fire on earth." in mind. "The statue 

Obse~ye~?
You really are 21! Happy Birthday 
Co1t1tact 3ackie
Love, Mom, Dad, 
Mose~ at 1-5303 o~ 
Pat, Kevin &Niki 
4-1884 
~otr~ D~m~ ~~~ ~nk ~t~ ~nt ~~ t 
Sunday, September 18 5:00 -·7:30p.m. La Fortune Ballroom 
Hosted by: Campus Ministry 
*Welcome Hispanic Freshmen *Student Panel on Hispanic Student Life at Notre Dame *Dinner *Special Appearance by "Coro PrimaveraII 
Cost: Freel ITodos Bievenidosl . Questions: Fr. Pat Neary, esc -631-7800 
or Lena Jefferson -631-8825 

is about enthusiasm and love," and the power of purification. Gabrielle said. The decision to place the stat­
The theme is carried out in ue back to its original location the sculpture through the sym­is especially symbolic, because bol of the flame that appears on it honors the Holy Cross sisters' Christ's heart and at his feet dedication to the hearts, minds, and symbolizes the Holy Spirit and spirits of the students. 
JV\te~ested iV\
Kelly 
doiV\g
McCullough 
p~odV\ctioV\ fo~ 
Yes, You! The 
Greeley details "erotic, romantic" side of God 
By TRACY ALLEGA News Writer 
Father Andrew Greeley show­
cased his storytelling skills last 
night to convince a lecture 
audience that God is like a 
spouse who is "mysterious, 
romantic, exciting, and a sharp 
dresser." 
In his lecture , Father Greeley 
expounded on his view that 
"charm and erotic vulnerability 
are the things we see in a 
spouse that are most likely to 
lead us to say that the spouse is 
like God." His claim is that 
there is a significant percent­
age of men and women who ac­
knowledge their spouse as hav­
ing God-like qualities. 
However, the qualities that 
these men and women associ­
ate with their spouse are not 
ones typically associated with 
God. 
Through research, Greeley 
concluded that 25% of all 
Americans believe that their 
spouse is like God. To reach 
this conclusion, he used several 
principal variables that tend to 
explain the sacramentality of 
the spouse. These variables in­
clude charm, nakedness, sexual 
values, and equality. 
Through his sociological the­
ory, Greeley seeks to further 
examine the Christian belief 
that God is love. "What kind of 
love? ... passionate,...erotic, 
committed love," Greeley said. 
Father Greeley's hypothesis is that "Religion, before any­thing else, is story." Through an understanding of people's _stories and experiences, Greeley is able to deduce a so­ciological model. In short, the "image of God is a story of peo­ples' lives." Greeley does not 
• SECURITY BEAT 
MON., SEPT. 12th 
4:58 p.m. A Carroll Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
11 :26 p.m. A University employee re­ported two suspicious persons in the Holy Cross parking lot. 
TUES., SEPT. 13th 
11:17 a.m. Security responded to a car/bus al:cident on Notre Dame Ave. There were no injuries reported. 
1:11 p.m. A Flanner hall resident re­ported the theft of his bike tire from his bike while in the Flanner Hall bike rack. 
5:08 p.m. A Pasquerilla East resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical 

have any qualms about associating the everyday, ordi­nary experiences of humans with a view of God. 
"God is a person of infinite charm," he said. 
Greeley gave an example of a personal religious experience that occurred one December in Chicago-O'Hare Airport. He described himself as miserable and melancholy amongst the confusion of the airport. Then he encountered a woman hold­ing an infant. Because of the glowing expression on her face, Greeley associated her with the Madonna. 
From this everyday experi­ence at the airport, Greeley was able to see that "religion begins in hope ·renewal experi­ences." Through our life situa­tions and relationships, "God is vulnerable with us," Greeley said. 
Greeley said that his research has many social implications. People who describe their spouse as having God-like qualities tend to be more con­scious of social issues. For instance, in his research, Greeley concluded that men and women who associate their spouse with God typically are less racist than those who do not. 
In the lecture, Greeley re­peatedly referred to God as a woman, using exclusively the pronouns "her", and "herself" to refer to God. He commented that "the Christian imagination is not yet at ease with the notion of God as a woman." Greeley said this notion must be expanded and developed, and typically strives toward this goal in his stories and other publications. 
Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
9:43 p.m. Security confiscated two stu­dent football ticket books from a Flanner Hall resident who advertised the sale. 
WED., SEPT. 14th 
12:22 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of cash from his un­locked room. 
4:32 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident re­ported that four text books were taken from her unlocked room. 
5:11 p.m. Security and Notre Dame Fire Department responded to a dumpster fire on the north side of Zahm Hall. There was no damage reported. 





. 

------------------------------------~~--~----~~-------------------, 


page 8 


Break~p Of ~r~.~ ring
sends &iessage.to mob 
-··-~;it{/:·:,.'' ·{h.,=, hr>t: ·... 

By LARRY NEUMEISTER Press 

YORK 

The notion that the United States is only a destination for cocaine and heroin was er.ushed Thursday with the break,up of.a moh~l'\Ul. group that ·authorities say sent huge quantities of drugs from a New York pizzeria toJtaly. 
·=·<{W{M?\~~1::j~j~~w:­

More than 100 people were named as participants in the sch~~.•that allegedly.~roug});t ; 
cocaine and heroin· from···· Colombia and other points to NewYPrki e distributed 1 rest sent to Italy. 
At... >a news c...,•.·~~''" ~·" authorities tion heli.dqrua:rtelrs the 
"Not .()nly have WE;) ~lllJli9~k ed three major narcotics net· works but th~ inv~~tigatiori 
~a: :~!:fJj~~~Jfg~~z 
crime group$ opel"l;tting in 
Italyry~gcl Jn th~ UniJ~4 Stat~s':'~ said FBl Deputy Assistant Director William A; Gavin. 
'rt&-.:1+:. 

',,..::==·=.· . ,: ,,,: :·' :?:~-&mt~W~!fi::k~H·= := -: = · =··=-:·:~ mJ!i:~::::-:: ·.: :··· ···. :.,:= ...::-====\:::=··· , , · 
suspects. were from the fiVI:l U.S.-based organized crime families•. 
Testimony at past mob trials 
has ~hown the t1:S· fa.mij!e~have rules· against distrU:ll1t~ ing drugs but the Italian orga· f$ations do not. 
't;.,,~~Vin said auth~ft~i~s ·· • . heavily on court-approved 
wtr~taps and ~~rveill!f)'\.~e aftl:lr ltaJ!an ii\V~~~~lta~ors \ three yeats ago learned that lt'a)ian .· •. or~ anh:ed. .ct~D1e 
:<mpswere getting ~rUgs · 
SENIORS 
• SENIOR CLASS MASS 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 4P.M. @ GROTTO WITH FR. POORMAN PRESIDING BBQ FOLLOWING @ STONEHENGE 
•FSU RAFFLE 
PRIZE INCLUDES: --2 GAME TICKETS --AIRFARE --HOTEL $1/CHANCE SENIORS ONLY AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 16, 1994 
Student's family wins suit 
By LESLIE ZGANJAR 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE 
A homeowner was ordered to pay $653,000 Thursday to the parents of a Japanese exchange student who was shot to death in 1992 when he went to the wrong door while looking for a Halloween party. 
State District Judge Bill Brown rejected Rodney Peairs' explanation that he thought 16­year-old Yoshihiro Hattori was a lunatic bent on hurting him and his family. 
"There is no justification that the killing was necessary to save himself or his family," Brown ruled in a lawsuit filed by the boy's parents. 
Peairs, 32, was acquitted of manslaughter last year in th,e slaying, which reinforced the United States' image in Japan as a land of gunslingers. 
Masaichi and Mieko Hattori, who had asked for as much as $850,000, plan to give the money to a foundation they set up in their son's name to foster understanding between the United States and Japan. 
"Although the verdict was in our favor, the hole in my heart will always be there forever," Mrs. Hattori said. And in a plea to the American people, she said: "Please decrease the number of handguns as much as possible." 
Hattori was shot after he and the son of his host parents got lost while looking for a Halloween party. Hattori was dressed in a John Travolta-style disco costume -a white tuxe­do and an open-collar shirt. 
The teen-ager, who spoke lit­tle English, didn't stop when Peairs shouted, "Freeze!'' Peairs opened fire with a .44­caliber Magnum handgun. 
Peairs didn't use the "extra­ordinary care" required by law for using a gun, and neither Hattori nor his host family bears any blame, the judge said. 
Peairs was ordered to pay $85,000 -the maximum al­lowed under state law -for the youth's pain and suffering; 
Com~ties 


partie ipants!!! 
come to the 2nd arrual 
KICK~OFF DAY 
anyone who has oarticioated in Communities NO welcome 
~ f 
• get your community started for the new year 
• regroup with others who have 111ost11 their communities 
• let us know how we can help you this year 

Sunday, September 18 
1:00 ~ 3:00 p.m. 0MPUS Lafortune Ballroom MINISTRY 
REFRESHMENfS WILL BE SERVED! QUESTIONS?? call Kate Barrett at Campus Ministry: 1~5242 
$275,000 each to his parents, for the wrongful death; and about $18,000 to cover funeral expenses. 
Mrs. Hattori and her husband held a photograph of their son while they talked to reporters through an interpreter. 
"I hope a trial like this won't ever be necessary in the fu­ture," the teen-ager's father said. 
John Hainkel, who repre­sented Peairs' homeowner's insurance company, said he will appeal. The policy covers $100,000; the Peairs are re­sponsible for the rest. 
Peairs and his wife, Bonnie, said that when Hattori and the other teen-ager went to their front door, Mrs. Peairs looked out through the carport door, saw two strangers. slammed the door and shouted to her husband to get his gun. Peairs got his gun and shot the teen­ager in the carport. 
Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship 
Introductory Bible Study 
Wednesday, September 14th 7:00-8:30 pm at the esc 
Happy 8-day Dumper,Hope you get loaded and then aro one. 

"A reasonable person would have said, 'Why do I need a gun? What did you see'l'" the judge said. 
Peairs testified that Hattori ignored his gun and his order to stop and kept coming, laugh­ing. He said he thought the teen-ager was a crazed at­tacker. 
Howell Andrews, the Peairs' lawyer, said in his closing ar­gument that their fear was un­derstandable. 
"Bonnie Peairs was in her nightclothes," he said. "She looked out the door, saw strangers, slammed the door and said, 'Rodney, get a gun.' There's nothing wrong with that. We still have a right to do that in America. It's what a reasonable man would have done." 
The Ilattoris collected 1. 7 million signatures in Japan on a gun control petition. 

BUSINESS 
Friday, September 16, 1994 Page 9 
Fraud plagues food stamps 
By JENNIFER DIXON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In the latest scheme to defraud the government's largest welfare program, bogus grocery stores are springing up around the country to launder food stamps for restaurants, wholesalers and street traffick­ers. 
The lucrative scams are spreading at a time when fed­eral oversight of the food stamp program has been weakened by deep budget cuts, and while record numbers of Americans are collecting benefits. 
The Agriculture Department spends $24 billion a year pro­viding food stamps to more than 26 million Americans ­one in 10. Yet USDA's Food and Nutrition Service has only a handful of regulators and investigators to police the pro­gram. 
According to agency officials and lawmakers, the Food and Nutrition Service has 46 food stamp investigators, compared with nearly 80 in 1979. Its field office staff, which oversees food stamps as well as other nutri­tion programs, has shrunk from a thousand workers to about 150. 
The Secret Service, which recently investigated food stamp laundering around the country, found evidence of mas­sive fraud and estimates the cost of trafficking at $2 billion a year.
' "..._...,,_ -~ ' · ·· Rep. Ron Wyden, chairman of a House subcommittee on regu­lation, said the Clinton adminis­tration must be more aggres­
sive about cracking down on fraud. 
"They ought to be coming down on the crooks with hob­nail boots, but instead, we've been arguing (for more investi­gators) against a brick wall for months," said Wyden, D-Ore. 
Some recipients use their coupons to buy drugs, alcohol, other contraband and restau­rant meals, investigators say, while restaurants trade them for produce and meat with their suppliers and route dri­vers. 
Crooked grocery stores get into the act when they buy the black market coupons for less than face value, generally 50 to 70 cents on the dollar, and redeem them for cash from the federal government. 
All stores that accept food stamps must meet USDA requirements on the types of food sold. 
Investigators, however, say some grocery stores now involved in trafficking are storefront operations with vir­tually no food inventory. 
They are sneaking into the program because the USDA authorizes grocers to partici­pate by mail, without inspecting the store or meeting the grocer face to face, investigators said. 
Craig Beauchamp, assistant inspector general in charge of investigations at USDA, said people are "setting up busi­nesses for the sole purpose of getting rid of trafficked food stamps." 
·, -"Food stamps are so lucrative for some people that they forget about the grocery business and get into the food stamp busi­ness," he said. 
Hoosier Park faces financing problem 
Associated Press 
ANDERSON, Ind. 

Hoosier Park is up and run­ning standardbred horse races, but investors in a second Indiana horse track always seem to face one more prob­lem. 
On Thursday, it was a ques­tion about financing for the $40 million track in Shelby County. 
Carmel-based Sagamore Park Group filed a financing propos­al with the Indiana Horse Racing Commission on Sept. 1, but so far has failed to provide the final loan documents that to seal the agreement. 
The commission has already granted Sagamore Park a license to develop a track out­side Shelbyville for standard­breds, quarterhorses and thor­oughbreds. 
Gorajec said the financing question will be discussed when the commission meets Sept. 23. Gorajec, who is not a commission member and has no vote, declined to say what actions the commission might consider. 
"There are things that are clearly within the commission's domain," he said. "It's not a question of whether they (Sagamore) complied; obviously they are not in compliance. It's a question of what the commis­sion is going to do about it," Gorajec said. 
He gave no indication that the commission would call into question Sagamore's license, or the project itself. Sagamore Park president Paul Estridge, a real estate developer, said ear­lier construction could begin later this year, with completion slated for October 1995. 
Telephone calls to Estridge and the group's attorney, Jay Boyd, concerning Gorajec's comments were not returned. 
Estridge has struggled for more than five years to develop the track, finally winning a license, and in mid-August posting a $1 million perfor­mance bond, then finally announcing that he had secured financing. 
Indiana's first race track, Hoosier Park, opened Sept. 1 in Anderson and is in the midst of its ,inaugm:al, 55-day harness­racing meet. 
A decision due at the com­mission's next meeting will influence whether Hoosier Park will also conduct Indiana's first thoroughbred racing meet next year. The commission will like­ly decide whether Churchill Downs, the Louisville, Ky.­based developer of Hoosier Park, will be awarded a license for an off-track betting facility in Merrillville. 
Churchill has pledged to con­duct a 42-day thoroughbred racing meet next year if it receives approval for the Merrillville OTB in northwest Indiana. 
Beauchamp said the coupons come from restaurants, whole­salers, route drivers and street traffickers. 
In New York City this week, federal prosecutors accused more than 60 people of being involved in storefront opera­tions that allegedly laundered $40 million in food stamps. 
According to complaints flied in federal court, the "stores" conducted little or no business. Many were closed during busi­ness hours, and when open, had hardly any food inventory or customers. Yet the owners deposited large amounts of coupons into their bank accounts, often exceeding $100,000 a month. 
In Los Angeles, the owner of a milk delivery company quit selling dairy products to give his full attention to redeeming food stamps obtained from other drivers. He charged other drivers a 5 percent handling fee and by the time he was caught, was illegally redeeming $2,000 to $6,000 in food stamps a day. 
"What we're seeing, more and more, are these schemes where the stores don't exist, or exist only in the barest sense," Beauchamp said. 
Neal Flieger. a spokesman for the Food and Nutrition Service, said his agency is suffering from "12 years of erosion and decay" because of cuts under Presidents Reagan and Bush. 
And now, because budgets are extremely tight. the agency must "do more with less," he said. "And I would argue we are doing more with less. We are redoubling our efforts to crack down on fraud and abuse in the program." 
GM factory union authorizes strike 
By MITCH WEISS 
Associated Press 
TOLEDO, Ohio 

Workers at a General Motors plant that builds transmissions voted to authorize a strike that could hurt production at plants in nine states, including Indiana, and four foreign coun­tries. 
Voting began Wednesday and ended today. The 2,596­to-106 vote authorizes union leaders at the Toledo Powertrain Plant to order a strike at a later date. 
It is still too early to talk about a walkout, Oscar Bunch, president of United Auto Workers Local 14, said today. UAW international leaders in Detroit must sanction a strike if negotiations fail to resolve the dispute. 
Bunch said the union was concerned about safety issues, including production speedups and heavy overtime. He would not elaborate. 
The union represents 4,139 hourly workers at the Toledo plant, which makes transmis­sions for 11 U.S. and five for­eign assembly plants. 
"We've always had a good working relationship with GM and we hope to get this settled soon. We don't want to go on strike but will if we have to," Bunch said. 
Two plants in Pontiac, Mich.; and one each in Fort Wayne, Ind.; Moraine, Ohio; Arlington, Texas; Baltimore; Bowling Green, Ky.; Flint, Mich.; Janesville, Wis.; Shreveport, La.; and Linden, N.J., would be affected by a strike. Two plants in Canada and one each in Mexico, Australia and Venezuela also could be affect­ed. 
GM spokeswoman Charlotte Grim did not return a phone message seeking comment today. On Wednesday, she said negotiations were continuing. She would not discuss the dis­pute. 
There was a steady flow of workers into the union office Wednesday. Some said they were solidly behind the union. 
"We have to support the union and we have to make working conditions good for everyone," said Debbie Kimble, who has worked in the tool room for 10 years. She said she voted to authorize a strike. 
Joe Avery, who works on the assembly line, said GM has reduced the number of people building transmissions but speeded up production. He said that has created some safety and health concerns. 
"There has been problems," said Randy O'Hara, who also works on the assembly line. "It's unfortunate that it had to come to this point. But I think this is what has to happen in order to make management realize they need to make some changes." 
Ford proposes settlement 
By USA ZAGAROU 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Handling advice and free inspections are part of a pro­posed settlement announced Thursday involving about 700,000 Ford Bronco II models, the subject of lawsuits contend­ing they are prone to rollovers. 
The class-action settlement agreed to by Ford Motor Co. and attorneys representing owners must be approved by a federal court in Louisiana and a state court in Alabama before it can be implemented. Hearings are scheduled in both courts in November. 
The case involves the 1983­90 Bronco II, a sport-utility vehicle that is no longer being manufactured by Ford. It is smaller and designed different­ly than the Ford Bronco, which isn't part of the litigation. 
Ford began notifying Bronco II owners of the proposed set­tlement on Thursday. 
Owners who agree to the set­tlement would receive a sticker cautioning drivers to avoid unnecessary sharp turns or other abrupt maneuvers; a videotape detailing how the Bronco II's handling character­istics are different from ordi­nary cars, and an owner's guide supplement. 
They also would be entitled to a free dealership inspection to make sure that no changes were made since purchase that would compromise the vehi­cle's stability, such as different tire size or lifts. 
"By definition, sport-utility vehicles have some different handling characteristics," said Ford counsel John Beisner. "They are designed differently so they may be driven particu­larly in off-road situations. That doesn't mean they're defective in any way." 
Owners have 30 days, until Oct. 17, to opt out of the settle­ment. They wouldn't get the kit or free inspection, but they would retain their right to sue Ford for economic damages based solely on their ownership of the vehicle. 
However, even owners who agree to the settlement would be able to sue Ford for person­al injury or wrongful death if they are involved in an accident in a Bronco II. 
"Our agreement will give them the information they need to operate the vehicle more safely, while fully retaining the right to have their day in court should their Bronco II roll over," said T. Roe Frazer II, lawyer for vehicle owners. 
Although the vehicle has been the subject of numerous lawsuits claiming it is prone to rollover, a jury has never found the vehicle to be defective. Beisner said. Several cases have been settled out of court. 

___________________,________________, VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, September 16, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar• Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake P<ters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor .........................•..... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge V"tewpoint Editor .•......•......••.•••... Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .....•....•....... Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ...........................•......... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either ins!itution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through le!!ers is encouraged. 
Editor-in-GUef Managing Editor /Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor /Production General Information Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 
Some things are worth fighting for 
"Your time is up. Leave now or we will force you from power," threatened President Clinton in a national address last evening. Did that get your attention? If it didn't, the following plea in last Friday's New York Times from a 12-year old Haitian boy certainly should: "They do not know that if they kill us, they help us," said Lionel Brene. "I do not care if they kill me because it only brings an end to my suffering." :· 
The looming invasion of Haiti brings with it more than just a test of military strength and political resolve-it highlights how we, as Americans, show our value of principle and regard for humanity. Approximately two-thirds of our nation opposes this effort to restore democracy. Most of America appears more riveted by the results of a blood test in the O.J. Simpson case. Suddenly, it becomes painfully obvious just how far our own humanity has fallen. 
How can the pleas of Lionel Brene not compel us to cease the willful terrorism of these tyrants? 
Beyond reasons of preserving human dignity, Haiti represents an enormous American interest. If the epit­ome of freedom and democracy allows such behavior less than one hundred-fifty miles off its coast, what more will we tolerate as the fmest military in the world stands idly by? 
Moreover, hordes of Haitian refugees-21,000 in the past two months-have paralyzed immigration and Coast Guard efforts for the past four years. They have also cost the U.S. over $200 million. If this situation were to continue, it would be economically disastrous for both private and public sectors. 
Yes, Clinton's silver tongue brushed over these aspects, but we must hold him to his sterling words. We must insist that our military and political efforts remain unclouded and direct. We will accept no less. 
The American people have a right to be concerned. No one wants to see dead servicemen. We have always believed some things to be worth fighting for. 
Don't we now? 


Dear Editor: 
No one in their right mind can doubt that the military totalitarians running Haiti today-descendants of the infa­mous Tonton Macoutes in the Duvalier times-have turned what was already one of the most destitute nations in the world into a hell of tyranny and fear for virtually all of the pop­ulation except the young men they have so tragically co-opted Into their roving d()ath squa$. 
-· ·-Th-e rule of Raoul ~tedras rivals that of any of the most savage oppressors in history. from Hitler and ldi Amin to the Dominican Republic's own General Trujillo; it a reign of terror in which the most mini­mal human rights owed by every human being to every other are meaningless, an out­rage to the most basic sense of decency that should be indis­pensable for every one of us. Even the most isolationist and self-serving political commenta­tors can hardly deny the situa­tion in Haiti. And yet polls show that as many as 60% of Americans are either doubtful about or out­right opposed to invading Haiti. Has something gone radically wrong with our minds or is the American public plain coward? Perhaps a conversation with my barber, a dead-set noninvader, reveals something of the popu­lar sentiment. Joe (my barber) declared that "saving that pid­dly island isn't worth one American life"-a statement that on its surface looks like a shockingly selfish piece of nationalism, if not something much worse. Why does he hold such a view? Joe's comments shed light on the real undercur­rent that makes people oppose 
actions such as the one planned help of U.S opposition. 
in Haiti: a majority of the It is precisely this conviction American public simply doesn't which it is our highest national believe that we can be effective interest to destroy. The convic­in changing long-run trends in tion that the world authorities nations like Haiti through inva-in whatever region of the globe sions-the U.S. simply ends up will do nothing that does not getting screwed instead. This is serve their short-term individ­a subtle form of despair which ual self:interest-whether the undermines even the clearest European Union in the case of cases of moral duty. It shows Serbia or the United States in that despite all our successes the case of Haiti-is precisely this century, from the recon-what gives would-be totalitari­struction of Japan to Desert ans. tp~ ~vercol\[ide~ce,to ?~n 'Storm.,; thee American· vieWpoint • their assaiift 'On lfuman ~Ig'i\ily is still too overshadowed by our in yet more nations, until the experience in Vietnam. repercussions harm the com-
Aristide may not be the mon long-term interests of the ablest statesman in Haiti, but nations that refused to inter­as things are, he must be vene. It is an iron law of psy­returned at all costs. or the mil-chology that when evil reaches itary junta will have profited the proportions of massive sys­immensely by their months of tematic violations of fundamen­defiance and the time they have tal human rights, refusing to had to destroy every vestige of make the sacrifices ta stop it opposition at the grass roots only makes it spread, putting level. Only the return of off the day of reckoning while Aristide will make the Haitian more innocents suffer. people at large believe in the The American public reaction effectiveness of their democrat-to the Haiti crisis is truly a low ic power and give them the point for the conscience and inspiration to rebuild what moral reasoning of most of our Raoul Cedras and his butchers population. Yet monsters like have hacked to pieces. Raoul Cedras can bamboozle 
There will be no sea-change, the American public because of however successful the inva-our utterly irrational fears of sion, unless Cedras's death Vietnam scenarios and, more squads are absolutely cleansed deeply, our craving for any from Haiti: that means bringing rationalization that tells us we them to justice, not compromis-don't have to make the slightest ing with them. Handing over sacrifice for our fellow man the reigns to some neutral even when his ancestors were moderate in Haiti while Cedras brought into their oppression retires to his resort, with the by our own slavetrading forefa­opposition in Port-au-Prince thers and his tyrannical victim­and the countryside in shatters izer carries out the slaughter in and his armed men reaping the our own hack yard. profits, would only confirm the totalitarian conviction no crime JOHN DAVENPORT against humanity is so heinous Graduate Student that the perpetrator cannot Philosophy profit despite or even with the 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

• Quon: OF THE DAY 
''The most potent weapon in the hands of the oppressor is the mind of the oppressed." 
-Steven Biko 

P&T&R, aJ~'R/3 PO«<N, fA!£'R£ IJOIQN.' R£P£AT­OUR UNIT1!3 /JONN! 
MA:t!M? YO/JR. OH [)£AI<, 
Ntf'HfiAJJU~T ISH& 
I<N(X.I(E[) OveR.A OKAYr ~~lXV CAM/3RA .' H&'SNrJT 
RJUY 
aJVf3Rf3lJ. I 

Friday, September 16, 1994 page 11
VIEWPOINT 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
As a senior, I was looking for­ward to good seats at the foot­ball games this year. My ticket says section 29, row 37, but I did not quite make it there last weekend. Unless, that is, I bought a ticket for the aisle steps along with hundreds of other people. Normally, I would just move up a few rows and enjoy the game. That did not happen this time. We became sandwiched in the aisle, not that you could tell where it began because there were so many people packed into it. I do not think that the fire department would approve of a completely blocked aisle, with 4 or 5 people on each step. 
The fact that we missed the whole first quarter was bad enough, but not as ridiculous as the ushers' responses to the frustrated students. I actually heard one say, "What do you want me to do? I can't control these kids!" God forbid he should actually do the job he was being paid for. Another one told me, "Well maybe you should get here earlier next time." Since when is arriving at 1:00 for a 1:35 kick-off not early enough? 
After finally making it to a 
less crowded area at the top of 
the stadium, I found a step to 
share with only one other per­
son. I never got an actual seat, 
but at least I could see the field. 
I understand that it may be dif­ficult to "control all these kids", but perhaps if the ushers were actually checking tickets, there would not have been hundreds of extras to "control". 
I realize that people like to bring friends and siblings up to the student section. I have done it myself. But is it too much to ask for an actual seat when I paid $84 to sit (or stand) there? And it must be silly of me to assume that competent and polite ushers are included with that. I never had a bad experience before this, and hopefully never will again. 
KATIE GORMAN 
Senior Howard Hall 
Mr. President, What is a liberal ever to do? 
Dear Editor: 
As a liberal, I waited a long time for a Democrat in the White House and had confidence in Clinton's ability when he was elect­ed to the White House. After approximately two years of a Democratic White House, I have been left disillusioned by Clinton's decisions and performance. 
I wished to see a Democratic, preferably liberal, president com­mand the same respect from the nation with his policies to reverse 12 years of conservative neglect and domestic blight. Instead, we get an inexperienced moderate governor from a minor state who is a master campaigner, communicating effectively as governor but a weak and fickle Commander-in-Chief. 
I question his intentions when the Supreme Court actually emerges more conservative when the nominations of a Democratic president pass a vote on the Senate floor. 
Is there no long-term vision, a liberal paradigm to the Republican revolution of the federal judiciary of the 1980s? What worries me, in addition to a weakened impression of the United States overseas, is the weakened impression the President is leav­ing with the American public. Can a Democrat effectively conduct the foreign policy of this country? 
With his party dominates the Congress and most independent polls show that the ideals of the President's legislation have wide support among Americans, the President has a majority of Americans doubting his ability and the majority of his bills being met with harsh criticism in Congress. 
The Republicans are showing their true colors of intolerance, an emblem of their absurd convention in Houston where liberal Republicans, ethnic minorities, homosexuals, non-Christians, and supporters of a women's right to choice were pushed outside of Lee Atwater's "big tent" by ultra-right wing fundamentalist Christians and their leaders. Yet, the President, the ineffective messenger, stands to lose the presidency, ifthe election were held today. 
Clinton is currently on a track leading to defeat not only of him­self in 1996, but a defeat for liberals everywhere who are fright­ened not only by the possible gains of conservative Republicans but by the inability of one Democrat to be placed on all. 
KEN MOTOLENICH-SALAS 
Senior 
Dillon Hall 

• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Woodstock and Hairman made the difference 
Twenty-five years ago Woodstock was a happening that just happened. Havin~ grown up in suburban Pittsburgh, I was not as close to the New York location as my Notre Dame freshman year room­mate who lived in Connecticut. So while I watched the television as the first man walked on the moon during the early summer, my roommate-to-be was mak­ing plans to attend this great outdoor rock festival. 
Much has been said and written by those who attended the first Woodstock, but none of them would describe it quite as uniquely as the roommate we called "Hairman." You see, "Hairman" better 
Gary Caruso 

known to his parents as "Jim," was a rock aficionado. He followed bands across the country . He would partake in smoking substances which were illegal to enhance his senses. Most importantly, he embodied the generation of the day by living and letting live 
I remember one early morning during my first fall at ND when he and I stayed up late while only in our underwear talking about "things" Today it would be called "stuff'' but the topics would be identical. Do you say "pop" or "soda?" What social group were you considered to be a part of during high school, etc. On that particular night we talked music, and Woodstock came up. 
Jim was about six feet three inches tall with long hair that curled into an Afro style that must have gone out a foot and a half on each side of his head by the end of our freshman year. He wore glasses that put Coke bottles to shame. In fact, his sight was so bad that one day. he mistook the dorm maid who had a Brooklyn accent for one of our male classmates who was from New York. He never had to worry about being drafted for service in Vietnam. 
During a conversation with Jim, he would constantly stroke his hair, thus earning the name "Hairman." While we sat around that one late night in our undies, he stroked true to form. However, his friends soon learned the distraction and payed close attention to the content of his statements. That night I came away with an insight of our section that "Hairman" helped me develop socially. 
Woodstock did not mean a thing to me, yet it was the height of Jim's teenage years. He smiled incessantly while he spoke of his experience at a festival containing his heart's first love. It was not so much the stories of drugs, sex, mud and music that impressed me. It was his outlook on living with others and accepting them without judgment. And while he opposed the Vietnam War, he never said a personal derogatory comment about any one individual who happened to support the war. 
I find that my friend, the "Hairman" ended up working with computers, sans music content of any kind or connection. Life dictated that he not be allowed to follow his heart's desire during it's most idyllic period-the teenage years. But he taught me without ever knowing it, about accepting others by his example. 
The first few weeks of school are the most socially important to a student. The upperclassmen can attest to how friendly everyone is, and then how quickly everyone falls into a rut that they follow the rest the semester, if not the entire year. I often wondered what the year might be like if everyone acted like they did those first few days of the school year. 
Might I suggest that everyone take a few moments each week to sit at a dif­ferent place in the dining hall, or approach someone new in each class, or just play some sport with different stu­dents every once in a while. You may be surprised at the end of the year at all the friends you've made. It is an easy thing to remember especially when you are having a bad hair day. Think of my former roommate, "Hairman," and how you may be encountering someone with such experiences that someday will make headlines like Woodstock did my freshman year as well as this summer, twenty-five years later. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73 has worked in Washington. D.C. at the U.S. House of Representatives for two Congressmen and two House Committees. He is currently working in a Congressional Campaign during this election cycle. His column appears every other Friday. 
page 12' The Observer • Weekend Friday, September 16, 1994 

Road trippers' guid 


720 Michigan Avenue 
224 Abbott Road 
The Harrison Roadhouse is a restau­
"Rick's is East Lansing's premier spot 
rant with an outdoor patio for dining.
for live entertainment," manager, Jon 
Directly behind the restaurant is a bar
Flynn said. "We are not too Greek and 
called the Roadhouse Pub. The restau­
not too grunge. We've got a little bit of 
rant serves a variety of sandwiches,
everything." 

munchies, burgers and Mexican foods in addition to nice, fancy dinners. The
Friday night Rick's will have a happy 
pub has a smaller menu that includes
hour from 2 p.m. until 5 p.m. On 
munchies, burgers and pizzas.
Saturday they will open at noon with a tailgate party. The Notre Dame vs. 
The Harrison Roadhouse just got a
Michigan State game will be showing on 
satellite disc. The restaurant has four
Rick's big screen television that is locat­
televisions and the pub has five as well
ed above the stage and also on ten 
as dart boards.
other televisions located in various places around the bar, according to 
The Harrison Roadhouse is located
Flynn. 

right across the street from Spartan Stadium.
There will be no cover charge at Rick's until 8 p.m. when admission will 
"We are a major bar right in the mid­
be $3. At 10:30 p.m. Trinidad Tripoli 
dle of a party area," manager Vickie
Steel Band, a popular Reggae steel 
Hamilton said. 
band, will be playing. Rick's will ~lso be offering a number of drink specials throughout the weekend, Flynn added. 



101 East Grand River Avenue 
On Friday evening, The Landshark 225 Ann Street will host a happy hour from 4 p.m. until El Azteco is a New Mexican restau­8 p.m. The happy hour will feature an rant that has adobe walls, wooden all-you-can-eat buffet that will include booths and tables and a large win­meatballs, nachos, buffalo wings and dowed front out of which you can see subs. At 8 p.m. the band, Global the four main corners of town, accord­Village(yes, the same band that played ing to manager Matt Smith. 
strip around the Michigan State qat Saint Mary's last weekend). El Azteco also has a Roof Bar that pus. They also have two big sc~
patrons enjoy when weather permits. It 
televisions and two others. WhertOn Saturday, The Landshark opens at is a relaxed and quiet, open air bar that you sit on Saturday, you should be : 
noon, and the Notre Dame vs. Michigan seats approximately 100. 
to see the game. 

State game will be showing on a big El Azteco's New Mexican offers a leg­screen television as well as on nine end that students know as the Topopo j 
"The Peanut Barrel is a homey p
other televisions around the bar. Salad. This specialty has a layer of na­to sit down, have a beer, burgerSaturday night soloist, Gary Umlauf will chos on the bottom, topped with beans, some fries," Silsby said. 
be performing live. cheese, guacamole and a salad of let­tuce, tomatoes, chicken, scallions and 
"The Landshark has consistently been jalepenos. the most popular bar in town," manag­er, Dick Shafter said. 
The Peanut Barrel 


According to Shafter, The Landshark 
521 East Grand River Avenue 131 Albert Avenue 
is famous for their drink called the 
The Peanut Barrel is a relaxed bar Dooley's is a two-level bar. Upst1Shark Bowl. Just grab a straw and four with reasonable prices. The highlights is a nightclub with a disc jockey i or five friends and enjoy, he said. 
of this popular student hangout are downstairs patrons enjoy a sports I peanuts whose shells can just be that has three large screen televisit
The Landshark is located directly 
thrown on the floor and a "super-cool and 16 other televisions that will,
across the street from the Michigan 
juke box," said night bartender, Lisa course, all be showing the Notre Da
State Student Union and below 
Silsby. vs. Michigan State game. Both floors "Spartan Spirit." 
Dooley's have a capacity of 500. r The Peanut Barrel has an outdoor 

orne say there are only 
puddles of truth to the 
tale. 
It was summer, 1992, and Derrick Mayes, soon-to-be­freshman wide receiver at Notre Dame, had come to sum­mer school to get ahead. Maybe it was for school, possi­bly football-depends on who is spinning the yarn. 
There was Mayes, wide-eyed but never bashful, amid the vet­eran players, taking part in those involuntary but manda­tory drills that fill summer days' void of beaches and fun. 
Lake Dawson was there. The 

,.----~----~---------~-­
Friday, September 16, 1994 
1993 Big Ten Freshman of the Year­returns to torment opposing offenses. 
Just 19 years old, Garnett stands 6-foot-2 and weighs 225 pounds. 
A sleek structure of speed and strength. 
Garnett had 89 tackles in his rookie season to finish second on the Spartan squad and 18th overall in the Big Ten. 
He was the frrst freshman to start at linebacker in a dozen years under coach George Perles. 
He intercepted two· passes against Purdue, returning one 43 yards to set up a touch­down. 
With new defensive coordi­nator Hank Bullough, who spent nearly 25 years tutoring NFL defenders, Garnett figures to prosper even more. 

------~-~-~---­
The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA 
IRISH ON THE OfFENSIVE••• 

instincts for the ball." 
He got to the ball and brought down the ball carrier six times in the Spartans' sea­son-opener against Kansas, including a pair of tackles for losses. 
If adjusting to the college game wasn't a problem for Garnett, adjusting to a new, more complicated defensive scheme this season has. 
Bullough installed a tricky defensive attack. 
A 3-4 formation has been the most prevalent, moving Garnett to the right inside line­backer position from his nat­ural middle linebacker slot.. 
But the switch hasn't dimin­ished Garnett's skills. 
It has only enchanced them. That's why the Irish will be running in the other direction. 
-JASONKELLY 

'Dr. Defense' just what MSU ordered 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
To heal his ailing defense, Michigan State coach George Perles called a doctor. 
A paramedic of the gridiron. 
Hank Bullough. Dr. Defense. 
After 23 years as an NFL assistant coach, Bullough returned to Michigan State-the birth­place of his career-to resuscitate the Spartans' defense. 
And to complicate it. He unveiled -the revived and varied defense in last week's season opener against Kansas. The Spartans showed a multitude of schemes and various coverages. 
"And that was just one game," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "If there was an encyclopedia of defensive football, it would be authored by Hank Bullough. Every defense known to man has shown up on (Michigan State's) film." 
That could further trouble an Irish offense that has struggled to move the ball on the ground, normally the team's most reliable strength. 
Tailback Lee Becton, once a Heisman Trophy candidate, rushed for just 92 yards in the first two games of the season. 
And his two fumbles against Michigan led to six Wolverine points. 
"Lee was really down," Holtz said. "But Lee's a competitor, he'll bounce back. Eventually, we think we'll be able to run the ball as well as we ever have and pass it better than we ever have." 
That's thanks to for-real phenom Ron Powlus, who has proven to be all that a year of rumors said he would be. 
In just two games, he has thrown six touch­down passes without an interception. It took Kevin McDougal 11 games to throw six scoring strikes in 1993. 
Powlus is 21-28 for 369 yards and three touch­downs onfirst down. 
"Normally, you'd be concerned about a quar­terback going into his third college game against a pro-type defensive coach," Holtz said. "I would be concerned if it wasn't Ron Powlus." 
That's the type of confidence the kid has inspired in his coach. But he hasn't created quite the same confi­dence running the option. a Holtz favorite. 
Kansas optioned Michigan State to death a week ago, and Holtz hinted that he might try to do the same-under extraordinary circum­stances. 
"We will run the same option Kansas ran. They had some success neutralizing (Michigan State's) stunts and blitzes," he said. "We'll do the same thing... if (Powlus) gets his speed down to 4.35 or whatever, like the kid at Kansas." 
Okay, so maybe the option isn't an option. 
But Holtz will have to vary his offense to keep a swarming and confusing Michigan State defense off balance. 
Powlus will continue to throw the ball, finding Derrick Mayes and Mike Miller somewhere in the Spartans' secondary. 
But the heartbeat of the Irish offense is on the ground. And the offensive line has struggled to clear a path on the sod. 
Michigan State's defense won't make that any easier. Seniors Juan Hammonds and Aaron Jackson anchor the defensive line. 
Spartans' outside linebacker Ike Reese had 14 tackles against Kansas, and 1993's Big Ten freshman of the year Reggie Garnett is an intimidating factor at inside linebacker. 
But the Irish have the skill players to compete against any team in the nation, and the Spartans are not among the best. 
Turnovers make any defensive team look good, and three plagued the Irish against Michigan. A similar performance this week and Michigan State will induce similar results. "Bullough is just an outstanding coach," Holtz said. "They call him 'Dr. Defense.' " Holtz just hopes that Bullough's defense doesn't have the Irish dialing 911. 




• RATING THE IRISH 

Quarterback 4 Ron Powlus proved his humanity against Michigan, but still displayed flashes of brilliance with the game on the line. 
Running Back 3 Surprisingly sub-par against the Wolverines, Lee Becton's two fumbles were as uncharacteristic as unfortunate. 
Wide Receiver 5 Derrick Mayes is the best pressure receiver in the game and Mike Miller is always a deep threat. 
Offensive Line 2 Still searching for its identity. Without the dominant ath­letes ofyears past, it may be a long look. 
Defensive Line 3 Showed improvement against Michigan, but a limited pass rush allowed Todd Collins time to throw. Paul Grasmanis starting to make a name for himself. 
Linebackers 4 Justin Goheen and Jeremy Sample are solid if not spectac­ular. Jeremy Nau played the game of his career against Michigan. 
Second~4 

Bobby Taylor had a couple of mental lapses-along with the rest of the defensive backfield -last week, but they should prey on Michigan State's brand new quarterback. 
Special Teams 3 Still struggling on kickoff coverage, but Mike Miller's big kickoff return and steady placekicking improve the rating slightly. 
Coaching 5 Never fear. Lou Holtz has been through losses before and he knows how to tinker with the psyches of his athletes. 
-JASON KELLY_ 
33 
Notre Dame may be hurtingfrom its loss to the Michigan, but it's Michigan State that will feel the biggest sting this weekend. 


~---~--~--~~--------~---------%.··--------­
page 3 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 16, 1994 
SPARTANS ON THE OFFENSIVE. 



Sputtering Spartan offense needs help 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
There were two ways to look at last week's defensive perfromance by Notre Dame. 
You could point to the ·fact that the Irish sur­rended just 340 total yards to a powerful, well­balanced Michigan offense and thrice held the Wolverines to field goals after starting in their own end of the field. 
On the o.ther hand, the scoreboard indicated that they allowed 26 points, including a game­winning march down the stretch. 
Michigan State is hoping to be able to see the latter tomorrow. If that is to be the case, some major improve­ment on the Spartan side will be needed. 
"We made too many mistakes on offense, but they are correctable mistakes," said Michigan St. coach George Perles. "We'll work hard this week to elimanate those things, especially in our offen­sive line." 
If the Spartans could pick an area to work on, it would be their line. 

Many observers think it is tops in the Big Ten, and any knowledgeable college football fans knows that is saying something. 
"It's a big, strong offensive line," said Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz "They do a very nice job." 
Anchored by center Mark Birchmeier, the front five are large and talented. Averaging a hefty 296 pounds, they will be looking to pave the way for Duane Goulbourne. 
Goulbourne, a junior who led the team in rush­ing last season, scampered for 109 yards in the Spartans' opening 17-10 loss at Kansas. 
"Goulbourne ran well every time we gave him any room at all," appraised Perles. He'll have to if the Irish continue to stuff the run like they did against Michigan. 
At least on the ground, Notre Dame has been stingy, especially against Michigan having allowed a total ofjust 282 yards. 
"I thought we played the run really well," said Holtz. "Our defensive line played exceptionally well." 
It is in the air that the Irish have been hurt, and Michgan St knows it. 
However. if the opening game was any indica­tion, they may not be able to do much about it, as they passed for a mere 71 yards. 
There is no doubt they own the receivers to catch the ball. Senior Mill Coleman caught 48 passes last sea­son and opened with five more for 69 yards. 
He is truly capable of taking the ball a long way whenever he touches it, but if Bobby Taylor has anything to say about it, that won't be often. 
Opposing offenses having seemingly forgotten about Taylor's side of the field when they go to the air, but Michigan State may not have that luxury. They need Coleman to make big plays, 
· ~even at the risk of throwing at Taylor, · . One area of concern is the flair to the back. ! · ·"Michigan State has always had a history of throwing to the fullback in the flat," noted Holtz. "We are a little bit vulnerable to that." 
Another issue which worries Notre Dame is quarterback Tony Banks' scrambling ability, most notably, the straight roll-out pass. 
"The biggest thing that concerns me about us on defense is that bootleg pass that Michigan hurt us with is one of the stronger plays of Michigan St." noted Holtz. "Banks has tremen­dous speed and scrambling ability. That pre­sents some problems." 
Linebackers such as Jeremy Nau, who emerged in a big way last week, will be primarily responsible for containing Banks. 
The job of making him use this scrambling ability will fall on people like Paul Grasmanis and Oliver Gibson. 
"Grasmanis and Gibson have been giving a tremendous effort up front," said Holtz. 
If that effort generates more pressure, the Irish may be smiling when they see both the final stats, and more improtantly, the scoreboard. 
Photo courtesy of Michigan State Universituy 
PLAYER TO WATCH•••Mill COLEMAN 
He is a  dangerous  the  
wide  receiver  who  su­ 
excites  the  crowd  Andre Rison. is  
whenever he touches  within reach.  
the ball and his name  The academic All­ 
is Mill.  erican needs just  
Naturally, he is, sim­ 40 catches to eclipse  
ply. "the Thrill".  Rison.  
Michigan State wide- Coleman  He is far from one- 
out Mill Coleman is the  dimensional though.  
big play man of ·East Lansing.  He  entered  the  season  

Be it a punt or kickoff return, among Michigan State's top
c the long fly pattern or a simple ten all-time punt returners, slant. when he touches the including a 63 yard runback ball, as Chris Berman would last week. say, "He...could...go...all. . Looking at the way the Irish .the ...way." kick-coverage has been, 
In fact, he has gone all the Coleman could give the Irish a way to the endzone seven bit of their own medicine. times in his career, including Holtz probably won't give one against Notre Dame last him much of a chance, but season. For his efforts against with a 3.45 GPA, Coleman is the Irish, he was named as smart enough to hurt you. Michigan State's player of the He is both dynamic and game. consistent. 
And although it doesn't say His leaping abiltity and much, he worries Irish coach quickness account for the Lou Holtz. dynamic part, while the fact 
"Coleman is an excellent re-that he has hauled in at least ceiver," said Holtz. "If you look one pass in 23 of his past 24 at the film of the Kansas game, games make for a good deal of he got open deep." consistency. 
Coleman is quite adept at The Spartans are hoping for getting open. In fact, the a good deal of both tomorrow. Spartan all time reception -TIMSHERMAN 
27 

The Spartans haven't beaten Notre Dame since 1986, so they'll be hungry. But Notre Dame will offer Michigan State only table scraps. 
Quarterback 2 Junior college transfer Tony Banks threw for just 71 yards against Kansas. The big-time may be too big. 
Running Back 3 Solid but not spectacular. Duane Goulbourne is danger­ous running behind an experienced offensive line, but he's not enough. 
Wide Receiver 4 Mill Coleman is one of the most dangerous players in the Big Ten. Game-breaking capabilities. 
Offensive Line 4 Big and experienced, but simply not talented enough to compete with the Irish defensive line. 
Defensive Line 4 Experienced and talented like most of the Spartan defense. Could exr.loit a Notre Dame offensive line still searching for itsel . 
• RATING THE SPARTANS 
Linebackers 4 Reggie Garrett, the Big Ten freshman of the year, is sim­ply a dominating player and Yakini Allen has the experi­ence not to be intimidated by the Irish. 
Secondary 3 An experienced bunch, but they don't have the athletic ability to blanket the Irish speedsters. 
Special Teams 3 . Coleman is a dangerous return man and Notre Dame's kick and punt coverage has been weak. Punter and place­kickers are solid. 
Coaching 3 George Perles has been in trouole for years. A win on Saturday could save his job-for another year at least. The Spartans' strength is defense, but Perles isn't even th~ brains behind that operation. 
-JASONKELLY 

l. 


Friday, September 16, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 4 
i ' 
! I 

•

TEAM STATS MSU Opp PASSING Comp All % Yds TO lnt Lg PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO. Lg 
First Downs 14 20 Banks 8 22 36.4 71 0 2 29 Coleman 2 29.5 0 83 by rushing 8 12 by passing 4 8 RECEIVING No Yda Avg TO Lg INTERCEPTIONS No Yds TO Lg by penalty 2 0 Coleman 5 69 13.8 0 29 Manson 1 12 0 12 
T otai yardage 230 364 Greene 2 2 1.0 0 5 Offensive plays 57 76 Gouiboume 1 0 0.0 0 0 DEFENSE T A Tot FR PBU BK Sac Avg. yards par play 4.04 4.79 Reese 9 5 14 0 0 0 0.0 T otai yards par game 230.0 364.0 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg Alien 8 3 11 0 0 0 0.0 
Rushing yards 159 243 Coleman 0 69 59 128 128.0 Christensen 5 5 10 0 0 0 0.0 Rushing plays 35 56 Goulboume 109 0 0 109 109.0 Shureids 7 1 8 0 0 0 0.0 Rushing yards par game 159.0 243.0 Banks 39 0 0 39 39.0 Manson 6 1 7 0 0 0 0.0 Passing yards 71 121 Mason 0 0 36 36 36.0 Garnett 5 1 6 0 0 0 0.0 Passes completed 6 13 Greene 13 2 0 15 15.0 Hammonds 2 4 6 0 0 0 0.0 Passes attempted 22 20 Patrick -2 0 0 -2 -2.0 Jackson 3 2 5 0 0 0 0.0 Passes intercepted 2 1 Callender 3 1 4 0 0 0 0.0 Passing yards per game 71.0 121.0 Person 2 1 3 0 0 0 0.0 Fumbles I fumbles lost 110 212 PAT PAT Echols 2 0 2 0 0 0 0.0 Penalties I panai1y yards 2116 5135 SCORING TO x2 x1 FG Sal Pta Goulboume 1 0 1 0 0 0 0.0 3rt! down conversions 4-15 9-17 Gouiboume 1 0 0-0 0 0 6 Reaves 1 0 1 0 0 0 0.0 percentage 26.7 52.9 Gardner 0 0 1-1 1 0 4 Long 1 0 1 0 0 0 0.0 4th down conversions 0-1 Q-1 Martin 1 0 1 0 0 0 0.0 percentage 0.0 0.0 FIELD GOALS Q-39 4Q-49 511+ Tot McBride 0 1 1 1 0 0 0.0 Gardner 1-2 0-Q 0-0 1-2 Be nice 0 0 0 1 0 0 0.0 Marbury 1 0 1 0 0 0 0.0 INDIVIDUAL STATS PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg Madison 1 0 1 0 0 0 0.0 RUSHING Yda/Gm No Yda Avg TO Lg Salani 7 36.6 0 56 Plessy 1 0 1 0 0 0 0.0 Goulboume 109.0 25 109 4.4 1 20 Ferguson 0 1 1 1 0 0 0.0 Banks 39.0 6 39 6.5 0 14 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Abe 0 1 1 1 0 0 0.0 Greene 13.0 3 13 4.3 0 6 Mason 2 18.0 0 20 Wade 0 1 1 0 0 0 0.0 Patrick -2.0 1 -2 -2.0 0 -2 Brown 0 0 0 1 0 0 0.0 Board of Education 1 0 1 0 0 0 0.0 

•
No. Name Pos. HI. WI. Yr. 1 Mushin Muhammad WR 6-3 205 SR 2 Robert Shurelds s 6-2 175 JR 2 Steve Barnhill 6-3 203 JR
p 
3 Amp Campbell CB 6-2 185 FR 4 Damian Hiram QB 6-5 195 so 5 Sheldon Thomas CB 5-11 185 so 6 Mill Coleman WR 5-10 175 SR 7 Raymond Hili DB 6-0 160 FR 8 Napoleon Outlaw WR 5-10 175 SR 9 Todd Schultz QB 6-4 196 so 10 Anthony Folino s 5-10 157 SR 
p
11 Mitch McKinney 6-4 195 so 12 Tony Banks QB 6-6 225 JR 13 Derrick Mason WR 5-11 185 so 14 Cedric Saffold WR 6-2 182 so 14 Chris Gardner K 5-10 180 FR 15 Stan Hannah QB 6-Q 182 so 16 Mike Sislo s 6-1 206 SR 16 Paschal Rucker WR 6-1 160 FR 17 Shan Hart DB 5-9 170 so 18 Marvin Wright LB 6-1 211 so 19 Luke Banice TE 6-3 225 SR 20 Octavis Long WR 5-11 175 so 21 Demetrice Martin CB 5-9 180 SR 22 Craig Butler p 6-2 206 SR 22 Reggie Garnett LB 6-2 225 so 23 Yakini Alien LB 6-2 245 JR 23 Tom Baird p 6-2 2-5 so 25 Ricardo Jackson LB 6-3 214 SR 26 Marc Renaud RB 5-11 186 so 26 Franklin Weaver CB 5-8 168 so 27 Duane Goulboume RB 5-9 189 SR 28 Dan Hackenbracht s 6-2 187 so 29 Stan Callender CB 6-1 198 SR 30 Tyrone Crenshaw RB 5-10 185 FR 31 Damian Manson s 6-2 207 SA 32 Brandon Gatto s 6-1 197 so 32 Antwain Patrick RB 6-0 183 so 33 Jason Krueger LB 6-1 215 so 34 Greg Anderson LB 6-0 220 SR 35 Brian Echols CB 6-2 188 so 36 Aldi Henry s 5-11 185 so 37 Tyrone Garland LB 6-Q 227 so 38 Peter Drzal s 5-11 200 JR 39 Corey Mclane CB 6-2 195 FR 40 Brad Costello D 6-2 220 so 41 Travis Reece RB 6-2 240 FR 42 Vince Mastromatteo RB 5-9 208 SR 43 Robert Dozier RB 6-0 240 JR 44 Ike Reese LB 6-4 218 so 45 Matt Christensen LB 6-4 240 SR 47 Scott Greene RB 5-11 227 SR 48 Corey Baker RB 6-0 250 SR 49 Alim Butler RB 6-2 252 so 49 Scott Ernsberger s 6-4 205 FR 50 Mike Vorkapich LB 6-3 207 SR 51 Terry Harvey LB 6-2 241 JR 52 MattBaard c 6-2 270 JR 53 Dale Person DE 6-3 273 SR 54 Dan Cantrell LB 6-3 240 SA 55 Cart Reeves LB 6-4 225 so 57 Mark Birchmeier c 6-3 290 SR 56 Greg Stewart LB 6-2 212 JR 59 Nick Kallas DL 6-5 250 FA 60 Robert Denton OG 6-5 290 SR 61 Floyd Bell OG 6-6 331 JR 62 Brian Mosaliam c 6-2 275 FR 83 Sane Hannah OT 6-5 310 SR 64 Rob Harden OL 6-3 270 SR 65 Dave Mudge OT 6-7 267 so 66 Colin Cronin OG 6-7 290 SR 67 Greg Reid OL 6-4 270 FR 68 Jamaal Crawford OG 6-3 278 JR 69 T any Pbpovski OG 6-4 285 SR 70 Dave Kehr OT 6-6 295 JR 71 Jason Strayhorn OL 6-3 270 FR 72 Don Walker OG 6-3 310 so 73 Scott Shaw OG 6-4 290 so 74 Monty Brown OT 6-5 295 SR 75 Aaron Jackson NT 6-4 268 SR 76 Flozeli Adams OT 6-6 310 so n Alex Santon OL 6-4 310 FR 79 Brian DeMarco OT 6-7 300 SR 80 Jay Greene TE 6-3 270 SR 61 Nigea Carter WR 6-3 185 so 62 Delrico Simons LB 6-4 242 JR 83 Josh Keur TE 6-5 250 FR 64 Gary Kuhn TE 6-4 250' JR 66 Todd Feeney TE 6-4 260 JR 67 Dante Hardy LB 6-4 207 so 88 Chris Salani 6-1 225 JR
p 
89 Juan Hammonds DE 6-3 260 SR 89 Robert Gardner TE 6-3 225 SR 91 Brett Organek DE 6-5 274 JR 92 Robert McBride DT 6-2 272 JR 93 Trey Sartin DE 6-7 260 so 94 Bob Organ TE 6-3 270 SR 95 Todd Pearson LB 6-4 255 JR 96 Chris Smith NT 6-3 255 JR 97 Orion Hayes DE 6-4 265 SR 98 Josh Freeman DE 6-6 260 so 


• 


GEORGE PERLES 
12th season at Michigan State. Career Record at MSU: 68-56-4 Against Notre Dame: 2-9 Highlights: Won the Big Ten title in 1987 and defeated Southern Cal 20-17 in the Rose Bowl. 
• 
MICHIGAN STATE 

Sept. 10  at Kansas  17-10,L  
Sept. 17  NOTRE DAME  2:30  
Sept. 24  MIAMI {OHIO)  1:05  
Oct. 1  WISCONSIN  1:05  
Oct. 8  at Michigan  1:00  
Oct. 15  OHIO STATE  12:00  
Del. 22  at Iowa  2:05  
Oct. 29  INDIANA  1:05  
Nov. 5  at Northwestern  2:05  
Nov. 12  PURDUE  1:05  
Nov. 26  at Penn State  1:05  

WR 81·Nigea Carter, 6·3, 185, SO 8-Napolean 0!-Jtlaw, 5-10, 175, JR LT 63·Shane Hannah, 6·5, 31 0, SA 65-Dave Mudge, 6-7, 287, FA LG 66·Colln Cronin, 6·7, 290, SA 59-Tony Popovaki, 6-4, 295, JR c 57-Mark Birchmeier, 6·3, 290, SA 52-Matt Beard, 6·2, 270, SO RG 60·Bob Denton, 6·5, 290, JR 72-Don Walker, 6-3, 310, FA AT . 79·Brlan DeMarco, 5-7,300, SA 76-Fiozell Adams, 6·6, 310, FA TE 94-Bob Organ, 6-3, 270, SA 83-Josh Keur, 6-5, 250, FA QB 12-Tony Banks, 6·6, 225, JR 9-Todd Schultz, 6-4, 196, FA TB 27-D. Goulbourne, 5·9, 189, JR 26-Marc Renaud, 5-11, 186, FA FB 47-Scott Greene, 5·11, 227, JR 43-Robert Dozier, 6·0, 240, SO FL 6-Mill Coleman, 5·1 0, 175, SA J. 
1-Muhsin Muhammad, 6-3,205, JR 
.,-------------, 
-' 
~N STATE OFFENSE  MICHIGAN DEFENSE  
X  
X X  ~  X X X X ~ X  0 0 0 0  0 0 C>  0 0 0 0  


LE  89-J.Hammonds, 6-3, 260, SA  
97-0rion Hayes, 6-4, 265, JR  
NT  75·Aaron Jackson, 6-4, 268, SA  
92-Robert McBride, 6-2, 272, JR  
RE  58-Dale Person, 6·3, 278, SA  
92-Robert McBride, 6-2, 272, JR  
OLB  45-Matt Christensen, 6-4; 240,  
55-Carl Reaves, 6-4, 225, SO  
ILB  23-Yakini Allen, 6·2, 245, JR  
34-Greg Anderson, 6-0, 220, JR  
ILB  22-Reggle Garnett, 6-2, 225, SO  
51-Terry Harvey, 6·2, 241, JR  
OLB  44-lke Reese, 6-4, 218, FA  
87-Dante Hardy, 6-4,207, SO  

RCB 29-Stan Callender, 6-1, 198, SA 17-Shon Hart, 5·9, 170, FA 
LCB 21-Demetrice Martin, 5-9, 180, 35-Brian Echols, 6·2, 188, SO 
SS 31-Damian Manson, 6-2,207, SA 36-Aidi Henry, 5-11, 185, SO FS 2·Robert Shurelds, 6-2, 175, JR 19-Luke Bencie, 6·3, 225, JR 



·~ ~--------­
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 16, 1994 
FIGHTIN 
IRIS 



.­~  
NO  Opp  Miller  7.0  1  14  14.0  0  14  Schroffner  0  0  9-9  1  0  12  
Downs  46  44  Farmer  5.5  5  11  2.2  0  11  Edwards  1  0  o-o  0  0  6  
by rushing  21  17  Powlus  2.0  15  4  0.3.  0  16  Miller  1  0  o-o  0  0  6  
by passing  24  22  Stafford  1  0  o-o  0  0  6  
by penalty  3  5  PASSING  Comp  All  %  Yds  TO  lnt  Lg  Zellars  1  0  o-o  0  0  6  
yardage  811  690  Powlus  33  51  64.7  478  6  0  46  
Offensive plays  137  138  Krug  1  1  100  7  1  0  7  FIELD GOALS  o-39  ~9  50+  Tot  
Avg. yards per play  5.92  5.00  Schroffner  1-1  o-o  o-o  1-1  
Total yards per game  405.5  345.0  RECEIVING  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  
Rushing yards  326  282  Mayes  13  201  15.5  3  46  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
Rushing plays  85  76  Miller  10  166  16.6  1  46  Ford  8  40.4  0  46  
Rushing yards per game  163.0  141.0  Zellars  4  54  13.5  1  21  
Passing yards  465  408  Stafford  3  32  10.7  1  14  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Passes completed  34  40  Mosley  2  24  12.0  0  13  Miller  5  25.8  0  55  
Passes attempted  52  62  McBride  1  7  7.0  0  7  Mosley  1  22.0  0  22  
Passes intercepted  0  3  Becton  1  1  1.0  1  1  Farmer  1  14.0  0  14  
Passing yards per game  242.5  204.0  
Fumbles I fumbles lost  413  612  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Penalties I penalty yards  181109  11197  Miller  14  166  147  327  163.5  Miller  2  9.0  0  12  
3rd down conversions percentage  12-24 50.0  8-27 29.6  Mayes Zellars  0 83  201 54  0 5  201 142  100.5 71.0  - 
down conversions  1-2  3-3  Becton  92  1  0  93  46.5  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FR  PBU  BK  Sse  
percentage  50.0  100  Edwards  59  0  0  59  29.5  Magee  12  5  17  0  1  0  0.0  
Mosley  0  24  22  46  23.0  Goheen  10  6  16  0  0  0  1.0  
Kinder  41  0  0  41  20.5  Gibson  9  5  14  1  0  0  0.0  
Stafford  0  32  0  32  16.0  Nau  8  3  11  0  0  0  2.0  
Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Farmer  11  0  14  25  12.5  Wynn  6  5  11  0  0  0  0.0  
1  21  Grasmanis  5  6  11  0  0  0  1.0  
0  16  PAT  PAT  Taylor  5  5  10  0  0  1  0.0  
1  14  SCORING  TO  X2  x1  FG  Ssf  Pis  Wooden  8  1  9  0  1  0  0.0  
0  15  Mayes  3  0  0-0  0  0  18  Davis  7  2  9  0  1  0  0.0  
0  7  Becton  2  0  0-0  0  0  12  Sample  6  2  8  0  0  0  0.0  

Iii • •.. Iii .. 

No.Name Pos. HI. Wt YR 1 Derrick Mayes WR 6-1 205 JR
NOTRE DAME 

LOU HOLTZ 
2 LeShane Saddler s 5-11 196 SR 2 Dan Farrell WR 6-Q 166 SR 3 Rob Powlus QB 6-4 218 so 4 Lee Becton RB 6-0 191 SR
Ninth season at Notre Dame 5 Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 179 so 6 Mike Miller WR 5-7 160 SR
Career Record at ND: 78-20-1 7 Leon Blunt QB 5-9 173 FR 8 Ivory Covington DB 5-11 160 FR
Against MSU: 7-1 
9 LaRon Moore CB 5-9 193 SR 10 Mike Perona QB 6-1 186 so
Highlights: Won the 1988 national 
10 Larry Wright ATH 5-11 190 FR 11 Tom Krug OB 6-5 199 so
championship and finished second in 
12 Gus Ornstein QB 6-5 210 FR 12 Scott Cengia K 5-9 167 FR
both 1989 and 1993. 13 Brian Ford 6-4 193 so
p John Bishop CB 6-0 171 so Paul Rogers OB 6-1 204 so AllenRossum DB 5-9 175 FR 
Brian Perry s 6-1 197 so Mark McKenna OB 5-10 188 so Brian Magee s 5-10 201 JR Anthony Swiney CB 5-11 180 so Malcom Johnson WR 6-5 193 FR Bobby Taylor CB 6-3 201 JR
• T~E S;;R~;s ...
0
_!! ,1 '"M' -~ , 
Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 183 SR Charles Stafford WR 5-10 183 SR Randy Kinder RB 6-1 200 so
/
LAST TIME 


RECORDS s 6-Q JR
Mark Monahan 178 Tracy Graham CB 5-10 190 SR Ken Barry RB 6-1 195 FR Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 SR
Notre Dame 36 ND leads 40-18-1 

Jarvis Edison DB 6-5 210 FR Roben Farmer RB 6-1 210 so
Michigan State 14 

Last ND win RB 6-Q FR
Clement Stokes 200 John Mclaughlin DB 6-4 225 FR

36-14, 1993 Ray Zellars RB 5-11 221 SR Richard· Rolle 6-1 159 FR
Kevin McDougal (right) 
Last MSU win WR 
Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 223 SR Travis Davis s 6-Q 197 SR

threw for 185 yards and 20-15,1986 
Sim Stokes CB 6-2 191 so Kinnon Tatum LB 6-1 209 so
two touchdowns on Streak 7 by ND 

Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 227 JR Joe Babey LB 6-2 225 JR

17 -of-23 passing to lead 
At Spartan Stadium 
Alton Maiden LB 6-4 248 SR Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 228 JR

the Irish over the Spartans 
Notre Dame 14-11-1 Marc Edwards RB 9-2 221 so Jeff Kilburg DE 6-4 258 so
in 1993. 

against Michigan State ­
Bill Mitoulas LB 6-Q 210 FR Renaldo Wynn LB 6-3 254 JRin East Lansing. Lyron Cobbins LB 6-2 230 so Greg Stec c 6-2 265 SR Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 245 so Germaine Holden DE 6-4 252 SR Jim Kordas OG 6-5 269 SR Justin Goheen LB 6-2 228 SR Oliver Gibson NG 6-3 275 SR'H" ·"r'!;~s Steve Armbruster c 6-Q 220 SR ~ ." • 
Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 251 so -Jeremy Nau LB 6-4 226 SR
------. 
··--.-n~-i! 
Jon Bergman LB 6-1 220 SR 

' BerlBerry LB 6-4 221 so Jeff Kramer LB 6-3 215 FR
IRISH IRISH 
Mike McCullough OG 6-3 295 JR Mike O'Donovan LB 6-2 210 SR

80-0scar McBride, 6-5, 271, SR T 90.Brian Hamilton, 6-3, 288, SR 
Steve Misetic OG 6-5 280 JR Brett Galley LB 5-9 188 so 

OFFENSE DEFENSE 
98-Pete Chryplewicz, 6-4, 267, JR 99-Ciiff Stroud, 6-3, 282, JR 
Kurt Belisle LB 6-3 220 FR Mark Zetaveski c 6-6 300 SR Paul Mickelban OL 6-4 265 FR 

76-Jeremy Akers, 6-4, 296, JR 
NG 55-0liver Gibson, 6-2, 275, SR 
69-David Quist, 6-4, 289, JR 94-Reggie Fleurima, 6-3, 226, SR 
David Quist OT 6-5 264 JR Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 265 SR Herb Gibson OT 6-5 309 SR

72-Ryan Leahy, 6-3, 290, SR T 93-Paul Grasmanis, 6-3, 2n, JR 
64-Steve Misetic, 6-4, 291, JR 52-Germaine Holden, 6-3, 271, SR 
Ryan Leahy OG 6-4 285 SR 
Mike Doughty OT 6-8 280 so

3-Ron Powlus,6-2, 217, SO 
OLB 58-Jeremy Nau, 6-4, 233, SR 
Will Lyell c 6-5 274 JR

:lie c::t­
11-Thomas Krug, 6-4, 200, SO 60-Bertrand Berry, 6-2, 228, SO 
Chris Clevenger OT 6-7 250 so Jeremy Akers OT 6-5 286 SR 

c. 
67-Mark Zataveskl, 6·5, 283, SR ·ILB 54-Justin Goheen, 6-3, 235, SR
0 
Dusty Zeigler OG 8-6 264 JR

'!IIIC Ct
50-Greg Stec, 6-1, 265, SR 49-Lyron Cobbins, 6-0, 234, SO 

Jon Spickelmier OL 6-4 250 FR

!aC. 0 
Damian Peter OL 6-7 295 FR

n-Dusty Zeigler, 6·5, 286, JR ILB 36-Jeremy Sample, 5·11, 229, SR
~ ~ 0 
Oscar McBride TE 6-5 258 SR 
John Lynch WR 6-2 188 JR

53-Jim Kordas, 6-5, 271, SR 39-Kinnon Tatum, 5-11, 214, SO 
Joe Carrol WR 5-10 182 SR

X. 0
"'<

73-Mike McGlinn, 6-5, 297, SR OLB 48-Renaldo Wynn, 6·3, 244, JR. 
Mike Denvir TE 6-3 231 so

Ct
0 
Dan McConnell WR 5-10 178 JR

70-Mike Doughty, 6-7, 296,.SR 
42-Aiton Maiden, 6-2, 259, JR 
-
X. 
Ben Herrig WR 5-10 166 JR
6-Mike Miller, 5·6, 159, SR CB 22·Shawn Wooderi,5-10,190, SR

0 
Ben Foos DE 6-4 244 JR

0 
Cikai Champion WR 5-11 176 so

5-Emmett Mosley, 5-8, 182, SO 
"< 

9-LaRon Moore, 5-8, 1~6,SR 
Leon Wallace TE 6-3 275 JR

1-Derrick Mayes, 6-0, 199, JR ss 37-Travls Davis, 6-0, 198, SR Ty Goode WR 6-1 173 FR 
Brian Hamitton DE 6-3 276 SR

24-Charles Stafford, 5-9, 187, SR 2-LeShane Saddler, 5-10, 197, SR 
DarneiiSmtth DE 6-5 265 so
:.c.

4-Lee Becton, 5·11, 201, SR FS 17-Brlan Magee, 5-9, 204, JR 
Luke Petitgout TE 6-7 260 FA Paul Grasmanls NG 6-3 2n JR

25-Randy Kinder, 6-0, 207, SO 18-Cikai Champion, 5-9, 188, SO 
Reggie Fleurima NG 6-3 266 SR Corey Bennett LB 6-2 205 FR Stefan Schroflner K 5-9 164 SR 

34-Ray Zellars, 5-11, 233, SR 21-Bobby Taylor, 6-3,214, JR 
44-Mark Edwards, 6-0, 228, SO -38-Sim Stokes, 6-0, 191, SO 
Corey Radder LB 6-2 215 FR Pete Choyplewicz TE 6-5 255 JR Cliff Stroud DE 6-3 274 JR 

~­
Friday, September 16, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 6 
t ­
I Derrick Mayes. Last Saturday's younger players. A scared throw it that he's got a chance and some of things we're doing I performance against Michigan Kevin McDougal was at quar­to get it," Powlus said. "It's in the passing game this year
Mayes
I was the final piece of evidence terback and split wide left was hard not to favor him." have certainly helped him." continued from page 1 needed-seven catches, 106 a freshman receiver wearing And it's hard not to marvel at And Mayes is quick to admit 
yards, one touchdown. He is white and gold, but feeling and him. The first three catches of that Dawson helped him, too. Lake Dawson. Starting wideout averaging over 15 yards per looking green. his collegiate career went for The pair were mirror images at Notre Dame. Best receiver reception and in two games has Yet, Holtz tested him. He touchdowns. When the ball's in last season. If Dawson scored under the Dome. Maybe the amassed 201 yards and three called a deep fly pattern and the air, Woody Hayes' famous he would strip his helmet off for best at everything. scores on only 13 receptions. McDougal heaved one high line "Three things can happen the cameras, Mayes would be 
Dawson was leading the re­But numbers don't say down the sidelines. The when you pass and two are right next to him, his helmet ceivers' drills. In fact, he de­enough. Spartan defensive back was bad" sounds like petty babble. also removed. Brash-but every signed them himself~ Mayes was diving all ~ver the clearly beat, so he did what any · Mayes is that way, every day. word backed up on the field by Quarterbacks inch closer and stadium grass against corner would do. He grabbed "I mentioned to Dave Roberts two friends. closer, throwing the ball harder Michigan. He caught them on Mayes right arm and began our offensive coordinator that "We keep in touch, I talked to and harder. Smack. Throw it his knees, on his stomach, on pulling him down. is important that we keep him the other day. We try not harder. Smack. Get closer. his back, and on the final As yellow flags began to fly, Derrick from diving for balls in to talk about football, but we Smack. touchdown grab, leaping high Mayes reached out with his left practice on Mondays and talk a lot," Mayes said. 
Here's where the water towards the South Bend sky hand and hauled in: the pass. Thursdays without any pads," Mayes, in fact, may be a little begins to pour. and somewhat sideways to Penalty declined. Thirty-eight­Holtz said. "I mean, we were more arrogant than his prede­
Mayes was in the back­make an unthinkable snare of a yard touchdown. Introducing out there last Thursday and he cessor-like a younger brother ground, watching Dawson slap Ron Powlus pass. Mr. Derrick Mayes. is diving all over for balls; land­eager to point out his achieve­leather each time. His two It gave Notre Dame a brief If that Michigan State game ing on his shoulders, his nose, ments. A gold #1 hangs from Neumann gloves wrapped lead and reminded· Irish fans of was Mayes' beginning, last his chest. He just loves the his neck, a reference to his around every ball, and from the a catch ten months before. year's Boston College game was game; he's got unbelievable number and... his goal. first day, encased Mayes' con­"It was just like last year his arrival. hands, he has tremendous hand "I think about pro ball but
-scious. against Boston College," Mayes Dawson made the catch and eye coordination and has right now I want to get a ring," I can do that. I will do that. said. "But instead of Lake mak­everyone will remember, but it great strength for a wide Mayes said. "I want to be the So Mayes jumped out in front ing the catch it was me." was Mayes who allowed the receiver." best, to win a national champi­
of the quarterbacks. He asked It was like Boston College, an­Irish to roar back from 22 These are qualities that were onship. That is all I am them to throw the same speed, other heartbreak loss for Notre points in the final 11 minutes. noticed long ago when Holtz re­concentrating on right from the same distance. Just Dame. Alate field goal beat the He fmished the game with 147 cruited Mayes from North now-being No.1." as they did to Lake. Irish who had briefly taken the yards on seven catches. Central High School in ••• 
Smack. lead on a touchdown catch. Dawson's catch would have Indianapolis. Notre Dame's Smack ••• Dawson made that catch on never been if Mayes hadn't coach has a long-running joke So there was Mayes catching 
It has been two years since fourth-and-four with a little made a 46-yard diving catch to with Mayes, "Son, are you every pass, doing it like Lake Mayes first met Dawson, the over a minute remaining. It was set up the score. happy now-you are responsible but at a younger age, and, latter currently a rookie with the finest example of'Lake "Last year he made a lot of for me never wanting to recruit some say, doing it better. the NFL's Kansas City Chiefs. being Lake. big plays for us, but he particu­in Indianapolis again." No one is sure if it's true and When they played together ev­"Lake was a great receiver larly came of age against It is a reference to Mayes Mayes isn't telling. When he eryone saw Dawson as the and he taught me a lot," Mayes Boston College," Holtz said. playful attitude, and testimony was a freshman, when Dawson man. It was like the sorcerer said. "He taught me about what And now he is a fixture, as of Holtz's fetish for one-liners. was in the prime of being and his apprentice. One knows it takes to be a good receiver dependable as Jerome Bettis But look at in a different light. Dawson, was Mayes as good the magic, the other tries des­here and how you need to work was on third-and-two or Joe Why go back to Indianapolis but simply beginning? perately to learn. to be successful." Montana running the two­when you know you'll never Maybe not. Mayes is good 
But now, two games removed Saturday, Mayes will be re­minute offense. The feel find such a player again? now, great now. That's fact, I from his mentor, Mayes is turning to the sight of his first around Notre Dame Stadium "Several years ago I made the not fiction. But he has learned, I .. spelling magic of his own. He catch and first touchdown, and last Saturday against the comment that I thought Derrick spent time with Lake. 
has become the best kept secret until last Saturday's miraculous Wolverines was that if Powlus Mayes would be as fine a re­Developed. He was never in­among the nation's top-flight grab, probably his fmest. kept the pass in the stadium, ceiver as we have had here at herently better. That's just receivers; J .J. Stokes, Bobby With the Rick Mirer/Lake Mayes would find a way to the University of Notre Dame," Irish legend, right? Engram, Joey Galloway, Dawson-led Irish crushing the catch it. Holtz said. "I think he has Just puddles? 
Michael Westbrook, and now I' • • • Holtz looked to I • • • .. • ! I I • • I this •• More like a Lake:
• 

XIYI~ENTION ALL WING LOVERS! 
• 




AsK ABOUT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
0 
University Center 6502 N. Grape Rd. Phone 273-0088 

-~--~--~----~---~~----~-~~--------~--------~----------~­

page7 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA 
In the 

a ows 
After a tumultuous off-season, fleet flanker 
Mike Miller has quietly become one of 
Notre Dame's most reliable receivers 
By Mike Norbut 
0 
carry him into this year. 
H
e has made the most
pportunity is Mike 

Holtz refused to offer further of his chances thus You never know when he will the season last year beforeMiller's favorite word. 
comment at the time, but the far. Graham has had go all the way, because he can Miller reached the ten-recep­He lives it, breathes it, 
public was soon well informed every time. He makes every tion mark. He has achieved
and seizes it when it to fight to secure a 
as to the reason for their dis­reserve spot in the Irish sec­kick exciting. that mark in his first twocomes his way. 
Take three weeks ago, for missal from the squad. Both ondary. But Miller immediately "I think I can go all the way games of 1994. Miller and Graham were stepped in to take over a start­anytime I catch it," Miller said. In 1993, his defming game as
example. Opportunity came 
accused of theft after police ing receiver position opposite "It's always so close every time. a receiver came againstsailing towards the flanker in found merchandise stolen from Derrick Mayes, a job for which I'm maybe just one block or Brigham Young, a game inthe form of a Ron Powlus the University of Notre Dame at he has waited patiently for move away. which he surpassed the 100­bomb. It tried to elude him, an off-campus apartment, three years. "In the past, I was kind of yard receiving mark and scored but his outstretched arms and thought to be the residence of "It's a big bonus for me to hesitant or something, I don't two touchdowns. He complete­fingertips would not let it slip the two players. start," he said. "Last year, I know. Now, I want it more. I ly rewrote the receiver dic­away. 
"It's really hard when you was behind Lake Dawson, and I use every opportunity I can and tionary with his performanceA centimeter more and the know that your integrity has my punt attack the kicks." 
pass would have fallen help­accepted role as against Northwestern three 
been questioned," Miller said. returner. This year, I've had to Opportunity. What an intimi­weeks ago. 
lessly incomplete. 
"It really weighs heavily upon da.ting word. And he caught five passes
But it didn't, and Miller's 46-step up my role on the team." 
your mind. It really hurt to The role of return man is a against Michigan State lastyard touchdown reception gave 
the Irish a 14-3 lead over think I might not ever be a job that Miller has become year. Who knows what can 
Notre Dame player again." quite proficient at playing. In Even with his return happen now. "All we want is a win," Miller
Northwestern. Notre Dame 
went on to win the game 42-15, his three years at Notre Dame, prowess, Miller's major 
The smoke cleared, though, he has averaged 7.5 yards per have said. "I'm not concerned about 
while Miller went on to catch contributions seven passes for 142 yards. and the teammates returned to punt return and 21.6 yards per come and will continue anything else." But it was the one touchdown the playing field with the start kickoff return. He has scored to come on the Notre Dame But a few beautiful passes 
catch that broke the back of the of fall practice. one touchdown, a 56-yard punt offense. Though he stands only from Powlus might not be bad, Wildcats and got people talk­"One of the greatest thrills return against Michigan last 5'7", he clearly makes up for right Mike? 
ing. I've ever had is to wear a Notre year. his stature with his devastating "He's a great quarterback," "I felt that our wide receivers Dame uniform," he continued. The short term effect was speed. He can blaze past any he said. "He makes great pass­played very well," Irish head "For some people, the thrill is that it put the Irish up 17-3 defensive back, and he pro­es and he gives us an opportu­playing in the games, but for over the highly ranked vides a consistent deep threat nity to catch the football, which 
coach Lou Holtz said following 
the victory. "I think this was me, it's just being part of the Wolverines. Notre Dame went for the Irish. He is the perfect is all any receiver asks for. We team and having the op­
the best that Michael Miller has on to win the game 27-23. The complement to Mayes and a just want a chance to catch the played since he's been here." portunity to play." long term effects were that perfect fit in the Notre Dame ball." 
What did he say? Was ihat... Opportunity. Mike Miller's
Miller became one of the most offensive scheme. "Powlus is everything he's Opportunity? feared returners in the nation, But he is definitely not a sec­defining word. 
cracked up to be," Wildcat and he gamed the confidence to ondary target for quarterbacks. head coach Gary Barnett said. "His passes were terrific, espe­cially that second touchdown pass. And that catch on that long touchdown pass was amazing, too." 
"We're all wondering where he got the new set of hands," captain Justin Goheen said jok­ingly. 
Miller, however, could only thank his lucky stars. 
"It was a great pass, and I was just able to get my finger­tips on it," he said. "I'm glad he (Powlus) had the faith in me to throw it and to give me the opportunity to make the catch." 
There's that word again. 
Opportunity. 
D _I
oors have started to open more and more for the senior this sea­son. But one very 

important door almost slammed in his face before his final year in an Irish uniform even began. 
All was well during the 1994 ­spring practices until Holtz made a startling announcement following a team scrimmage. 
"I do not anticipate Michael Miller or Tracy Graham being with us," Holtz said on April 11, 1994. "I don't anticipate them representing Notre Dame. 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

They weren't at practice and I 
~ike Miller at the end of one of his trademark kickoff returns, a 56-yarder against Michigan that set up Notre Dame's go-ahead touchdown late
don't anticipate them being at 
1n the fourth quarter. 


-
J 
Friday, September 16, 1994 
•JOCX STRIP 
are bringing home the hardware 

0 
kay, Irish fans, before you start canceling your road trips and . crying in your beer (pick your own-personally, I would choose Old Style), just take a second to think about 
these rankings. 
I.•••••• Who's Number 1? Who ~ cares. It doesn't matter until 

after the bowl bids are out and the games are played anyway. Florida State proved that last year. We should have proven it in 1989. 
But just for our reference, keep in mind that there are seven teams above us in the rankings right now. But not for long. 
In this day and age, it's nearly impossible to go through a season undefeated. That is, unless you play the Sisters of the Poor every week like Nebraska. 
The Cornhuskers are going to rip through the Big Eight like a chainsaw through toilet paper. Even No. 7 Colorado will not stand much of a chance against them, especially after losing this week to Michigan and later in the season to some two-bit sleeper school like Kansas. 
Well looky here, we've already climbed up. Thanks Buffaloes for keeping the No. 7 spot warm for us. 
One tricky spot for Notre Dame may be the fact that Michigan, who (sorry) has already beaten us, is ranked ahead of us. But they are also ahead of Penn State, a conference rival. 
These two teams will prepare so well for this matchup that absolutely nothing will work and they will completely stifle each other, save a touchdown or so either way. Kiss your sister, guys, it's a tie. 
A tie is a blemish enough on Penn State's record to send them below us, and a loss to Wisconsin will send them far below us. Michigan, however, will not drop below us ini­tially, but they will after losing to Ohio State. Illinois, or even Northwestern. Don't put this by Gary Moeller. He can't coach his way out of a paper bag. He always manages to shoot himself in the foot, the head, or some other place. 
Three teams down. four places to go. 
Getting to Number 2 is easy. First, we pound on BYU, Air Force, and Navv. Then, we watch Florida. Florida State. and Miami pound on each other. Florida State will defeat Miami because they can talk better trash. Plus they have a coach that will cry if they lose. 
With a loss, Miami's out of the picture. Have fun in the Fiesta Bowl, Hurricanes. There·s al­ways next year, guys. 
I'm having trouble predicting the Florida­Florida State game. I figure the score will prob­ably be something like 72-58, but I'm not sure which wav the ball will bounce. A flea flicker here or a triple option reverse there could mean the game. 
In the big picture, though. it doesn't really matter who wins that game. because Florida State will lose to us, and Florida will lose to a Southeast Conference team like Georgia or Ole Miss. But thanks for playing anyway, gentle­men. 
That leaves No. 1 Nebraska and No. 2 Notre Dame in the Orange Bowl. Of course. this is under the assumption that we will win the rest of our games. 
Okay, that's easy to assume.(Because, as you know, assuming only makes a you-know-what out of the pollsters.) 
I hate to tell you this, my prairie flatland friends, but by the time the Irish play the Cornhuskers in Miami, Ron Powlus will have already thrown for 87 touchdowns on the sea­son, so what's an extra 15 or so more in the bowl game? 
Congratulations to those who did, and will, stick the season out. You will win the National Championship. 
So plan that road trip to Boston College. Stop that crying. And for heaven's sake, finish that beer. 
TEAM 1. Florida (27) 2. Nebraska (22) 
3. Florida St. (5) 4. Michigan (2) 5. Miami (1) 
6. 
Penn St. (2) 

7. 
Colorado 


8. 
Notre Dame 


10. Wisconsin 
11. Auburn 12.Aiabama (1) 13.UCLA 
14.Texas A&M 
15.Tennessee 

16. North Carolina • • 17. Texas lUCHIGAN 18. Virginia Tech .a.T.a. 19.Washington • • 20. Southern Cal 
·~ 21. Oklahoma 
~ 

22. Brigham Young ... 23.0hio St. 24. Washington St. MIAMI 25. N. Carolina St. 
RECORD 2-0-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 1-0-0 1-1-0 2-0-0 1-0-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 1-1-0 1-0-0. 2-0-0 2-0-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 2-0-0 1-1-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 
POINTS 
1492 1483 1384 1370 1283 1239 1116 1095 1091 1006 
918 
877 792 785 649 582 575 473 346 335 233 197 150 130 128 
PREY­
1ous 
2 
1 4 6 5 8 7 3 
9 10 12 
11 
13 16 19 171 
20 21 .25 14 15 
18 

• SPORTS EXTRA STAFF EDITOR: George Dohrmann MANAGING EDTIOR: Jason Kelly ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Mike Norbut 
CONTRIBUTORS: Tim Sherman, Andy Cabiness GRAPHIC DESIGN: Chris Mullins 

-
It$ time to call your P. •271-117 
"The best delivered 
I. 
pizza on campus." 
-The Obseroer, '93-'94 
I. 
"Fastest growing 
maall business." I_ · -Business Week '94 ''Best delivered pizza in Michiana." 
-Best in Michiana Now Contest '94 
-
HOURS: 

P.mlay-Tlmday 11 :00 am -1:Illam 
Frilay &Salmlay 11 :00 am -3:00 am 
Su1lay Noon -1:Illam. 
Pa Notrell\ Mic 
31

.,............ _
1 
17 

NOW HIRING 
livery & lnsilk Personnel 
•Flexible 
Schedule 

•Top 
Pay 

•10-40 
hr. schedules avail­able 

•l/2 
price pizza •EOE 


-
--~-~-------~ 
Friday, September 16, 1994 The Observer • ETC. page 13 
e to Michigan State 
N 

+ t. The Landshark 
s (Bar) 
•~ Rick's American Cafe·_ 
(Bar)
l-Small Planet 
(Bar/Resteraunt) 
4' Bilbo'S/EI Azteco 

(Pizza/Mex. Resteraunt)
5c Dooley's 
(Bar)
li:' Peanut Barrel 
(Baf.JBesteraunt) 
. ~ 
i'· r -Munn Field 
(Tailgating) 

The Observer/Christopher Mullins 
ludes pizzas. burgers, salads and can foods. 
There is a cover charge downstairs at ooley's and students ages nineteen d over are permitted on both levels. 
213 Ann Street 
Bilbo's is a bar and restaurant with regular floor service. Bilbo's has a mel­low atmosphere that includes a CD juke box, according to manager Jeremy Mcintyre. Bilbo's has happy hours daily from 3 p.m. until 6 p.m. and again from 9 p.m. until 11 p.m. 
The Bilbo's menu includes 50 differ­ent sandwiches, pastas, and gourmet pizzas. Among their pizza specialties are a "Health Nut" Pizza and The Wizard of Pizza. Their specialty is Chicago-style stuffed pizza that has the toppings inside and the sauce on top. 
Munn Field 

Munn Field is the place to go before, after and during the game to find stu­dent tailgating scene. Tailgaters may not bring containers of alcohol larger than one gallon into Munn Field. If these large containers are found, tail­gaters will be asked to pour their con­tents out.. Finally, drinkers under the age of twenty-one should beware of the mounted police, according to Michigan 
-

-
... 


page 14 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, September 16, 1994 
Wanted for questioning: The world, the flesh and the Devil 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers lo a bonefy 9ocf 

A funny thing happened in the summer edition of the Notre Dame Magazine. In two fine articles on hell and on the nature of evil, neither author bothered to consider whether evil has a father, or hell has an anti-Christ. C.S. Lewis must have pointed out in the Screwtape Letters that the cleverest deception of the Prince of Darkness has been to convince contemporary 
'you only have to be 
politically motivated like a congressman, mindlessly supporting abortion rights, because he thinks a woman's right to control what happens to her body, even if she's six months pregnant, is an idea whose time has come.' 
Christendom that he doesn't exist; in this way, as a secret agent, he can work un­recognized for the ruin of souls. 
Does Satan roam our world as the fiend and tempter? Do the fallen angels romp through our lives as roaring lions, seek­ing whom they may devour? I have no idea; on that subject. I am an agnostic. Beelzebub, for all I know, is a creature of fic­tion. The character Sportin' Ufe in Porgy and Bess, alluding to the Scriptural images of the ists at the population confer­ence is Cairo. 
This week, the wire services from the Vatican are playing up the interview John Paul had with the children in a Roman parish. The idea must have been to show that he does not have the disposition of an aya­tollah. 
Q. Did your friends tease you for going to church? 
A. Not too much. I was free. I could go or not go, but I want­ed to go. 
Q. Why did you choose to become a priest? 
A. It wasn't because I chose it, but because I was chosen. 
Q. Are you happy being pope? 
A. You can see I am. You don't need a sad pope. The pope must be joyful and happy. 
Q. How did you learn so many languages? 
A. You learn with your mem­ory and intelligence. 
Q. If you had your life to live over again, what would you do? 
A. I would do the same, because it wasn't my choice. It was Jesus who chose me, and perhaps He has already chosen one of you. 
The baby-boomers may say this is the king of pablum that made them want to throw up when they read "Christopher Robin is saying his prayers." A Jewish baby-boomer wrote the following sadly; I don't think it was the Devil who made him do it: "I very briefly considered a bedtime prayer. Then I said to hell with it. Let the good Christians around the world pray for my eternal soul. Let the little old man with a beanie traverse the slums of South America and tell hopeless, starving, uneducated families of twelve not to use rubbers. It cost forty million dollars for him to make the trip. Why couldn't the Catholic Church spend it on feeding all the cats left behind by all the witches of the world that it had burned?" Believe me, I've read much worse in the Catholic press. Not many Catholics support the pope on birth control. They say his credibility has been lost 
'you don't have to 
be a superman to do the Devil's work for him. Cowards are per­fectly competent to cruci­fy the innocent.' 
because he has remained adamant on this issue. 
But when I read in The New Yorker of single women impreg­nating themselves with turkey basters, I'm glad the little old man with a beanie stays visible, urging couples to reproduce in the natural way. Does anyone listen when he warns of dangerous shortcuts for con­trolling population? Do the Screwtape Letters mention that the second cleverest deception of the Prince of Darkness may be to convince contemporary Christendom to treat the Pope as a fool that the Church can ignore? 

-® 
HOURS: 271-9540 
Mon-Sat Bam -1 Opm CAMPUS SHOPPES Sunday 11 am -1 Opm 1837 South Bend Ave 
LOOK FOR OUR COUPONS EVERY FRIDAY IN THE OBSERVER 
-
IJ"fei TOpPin91
Ion your next waffle cone!.I 
(Medium or Large Soft Serve Only) 
... 
Offer good only at Campus Shoppes store : • a 
• 
I 

Not valid with any other offer. Exp. 9/22194
I II Clan't Believe It's Campus Shop a pes 1 Yo~rtl 1837 s. Bend Ave• 
._ _____ _
. 1 -WePutASmileOnYourTaste!~ 271•9540 .J 


Study Abroad 
•

F a I r 

Sponsored by the Office ofInternational Study Programs 
Chat with Returnees of 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's Programs •1n: 

Australia; Aus!ria; Chile; Egypt; France; Great Britain; Greece; India; Ireland; Italy; japan; Jerusalem; Mexico; and Spain 


September 19, 1994 
4:00 pm to 8:00 pm 
Ballroom, LaFortune Student Center Refreshments will be served 4ar;J 

Devil as a bad dude, may have said it best: "It ain't necessarily so-The things that you're liable!fo read in the Bible-/It ain't necessarily so." 
Yet when theologians speak of the structures, networks, or patterns of evil, warring with "everything that Jesus stands for or that the will of God rmal­ly intends," they seem to be discerning an intelligence at work. It seems that the world's evil is not random. The New Testament attributed it to "the Principalities and Powers." 
In a world where the Tempter is more than a metaphor, you don't have to attend a witches' Sabbath to become the Devil's disciple. You only have to be Eichmann doing the paper work for a genocide as well as arranging the logistics. You need only have the mentality of a Ku Kluxer willing to go along with the Klan's decision to lynch a Negro for being uppity. You only have to be politically motivated like a congressman, mindlessly supporting abortion rights, because he thinks a woman's right to control what happens to her body, even if she's six months pregnant, is an idea whose time has come. 
Adolph Eichmann is often cited as an example of the banality of evil. As a paper-
pusher working at a desk, he devised the "Final Solution." As a bureaucrat, he left it to his subordinates to push the Jews, gypsies, and gays into the gas ovens to be executed. If he had been less of a lightweight, he might have been able to resist being drawn into the web of monstrous evil. As a mediocrity lacking an imagination or a conscience, he went to the gal­lows protesting that he was a Christian. You don't have to be a superman to do the Devil's work for him. Cowards are per­fectly competent to crucify the innocent. 
Is it important for me to know if the anti-Christ or his puppets are using our world as their badlands? Why wouldn't it be, since I'm a fellow who writes. Hemingway said that every writer needs a built-in, shock­proof s----detector. Since the Catholic Church has had a lot of s----hitting the fan lately, I'm curious to know if Ol'Scratch has been keeping the hand on his pitching arm clean. Bell, book, and candle are not my cup of tea, and I wouldn't want to tick Ol'Scratch off with an exorcism. Still, the Church has been getting bad press because the Catholics have been lining up with Muslim fundamental­
-.::-: 
-------~ ------------~--------~--~-------------------------, 
Friday, September 16, 1994 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from B a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre 
-

Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
WELCOME BACKI For your convenience, The Morris Inn Gilt Shop is open 7 days a week. Besides Gilt and Souvenir items, we have Photo Processing. FREE DOUBLES -Every Day 
USED TEXTS CHEAP!!! I Buy & sell used books at the only hip place in town 10-6M-S/9·3Sun PANDORA'S BOOKS ND ave & Howard St 233-2342 
PAPA JOHN'S is HIRING! -delivery & inside personnel -flexible schedule -top pay -10-40 hour schedules available -1/2 price pizza ·EOE call271-1177 
ILOST & FOUNDI 
FOUND­HUFFY 3-SP LADY'S BIKE · BUR· GUNDY.CALLSGT.COTTRELL 1-8340 
FOUND: A camera. Call Tom 
x2212 
WANTED 
I

.....____________._ 
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS I SELL 8 TRIPS & GO FREE! BEST TRIPS & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT RESUME EXPERIENCEI1·800­678-6386! 
PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE TAKING PHYSICAL INVENTO· AlES. WORK AROUND YOUR SCHEDULE. DAYS AND/OR WEEKENDS. $5.25 PER HOUR CALL 272-0408 CLANCY INVEN­TORY SE:AVICES 
RESORT JOBS· Earn to $12/hr. + 
tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, & more . .T!l!Pica~~-Mtlunt!!(r)_l!!!~ri<!­t•clll worldwide. Call (206)632­0lM ext. R55841 
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO· MOTE SPRING BREAK TO JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE TRAVEUCOMMISSIONSI SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 
PART TIME WAREHOUSE WORK 
Accepting applications for part­time order fillers and stockers. Approximately 20-25 hrs weekly. Apply at Richmond Master Dis!. 4202 Technology Dr. (west on Cleveland Ad to Technology Dr.), or call Chris at 239.0310. 
MACRI'S DELl • BOTH LOCA· TIONS Now hiring all positions. Good starting pay plus many benefits and incentives including bonus pay and extra vacation days. 214 Niles Ave. 282-1351,277-7273 Grape Ad. 
Apply within. 
One or two reliable students who enjoy children needed one Thurs­day a month, 8:45am -11 :30am, to babysit at a local church during women's Bible study. Pay and transportation. First date: 9/22194. Call Nancy, 287-4002. 
***COACH'S SPORTS BAR**• Now hiring All-Star Cooks and Servers for part time work. Weekends and a positive attitude a must. Apply in person. 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: Are you interested in making $8,000 next summer while manag­ing and operating your own busi­ness? Triple 'A' Student Painters seeks managers to fill Ml and IN regions. No exp. necessary. Great resume builder. Contact Michael Willis at x2040 or 1-800-543-3792. 
Wanted: Geometry tutor for high school soph. Your choice of loca­tion. Earn extra cash and help a future Domer! 631-7350 days or 258.0780 evenings, weekends HELP WANTED: ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY NEWS SERVICES, 
232-3205 OR 288-9361. 
SKI RESORT JOBS • Hiring for many positions for winter quarter. Over 15,000 openings! For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V55841 
National Park Jobs -Over 25,000 openings! (including hotel staff, tour guides, etc.) Benefits & bonuses! Apply now for best positions. Call: 
1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841 
WANTED: TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. JILL 273-6942 
Desperately need 1-3 GA's for Air Force, Navy or BYU. Please call Ann@ x4544. 
I need a couch (271-9223) 
Help Wanted Individual students/organizations to promote Spring Break Trips. Earn high dollar commissions and free trips. Must be outgoing and creative. Call Immediately 1-800-217-2021 
I FORRENT 
ROOMMATE needed. Female
pre!. 

Oak Hill Condo. Own room & bath. Call 273-4485. 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­773-2034 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. PRIVATE HOMES· ND/SMC EVENTS. 219-291-7153. 
1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES. 272-6306 
FOR SALE 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV· ERY CALL: COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959. 
Macintosh LC-2 (4-80) 14" BW monitor purchased spring 1993 $900 or closest offer Robbie 273-9213 
92 NISSAN SENTRA, 53K (ROAD MILES), 2DR, AC, CRUISE, CASS, PB, PS, 1 FEMALE OWNER, GREAT SHAPE, ASKING $7200 CALL 288-8195 (LEAVE MES­SAGE) 
85 Honda Accord $1 ,500 Call Harold at 273-9581 
FOR SALE: SMITH CORONA PWP 3850 PER­SONAL WORD PROCESSOR WITH SCREEN. PAID $400. SELL FOR $200. CALL 272-3753 AFTER 7 PM OR LV. MESSAGE & WILL CALLBACK. 
BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 
TASCAM Multi-track Cassette Deck. 4 tracks, 12 inputs. Call 631-7133 
For Sale 84 Honda Accord LX 85,000 miles , 1 owner , all mainte· nance by Honda, $2500 or best offer 273 0928 
BIKE FOR SALE : Centurion touring 12-speed. Good cond, prof. tune-up lately! Call Charlie 1512 
TICKETS 
WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. CALL 
800-922-2327 JANET. 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 
4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED. CALL X2875 (NICKY) ********************···········-···· 
Need tix: 5 BYU G.A'S; 4 STAN­FORD G.A'S; 2 STANFORD STUD.--CALL JOE @X2765 
STAN FORD GA'S NEED 4. MATT 257 -Q564 
DESPERATELY SEEKING GAs for PURDUE and NAVY. PLEASE HELP--,$$$. Call Alisa -634-4355. 
DESPERATELY NEEDED: STUDENT OR GA'S FOR STANFORD, PURDUE, NAVY AND A.F.. CALL RACH 233-1761 
I NEED 2 Purdue GAs II Will pay big $$$ Please call Amy 4-3427 

NEED LOTS OF BYU TIX HAVE AIR FORCE & PURDUE TIX. CALL ERIN 4015. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. PLEASE CALL CHRISSY x3415 
HELPI Wanted: 1 student tix or 2 GA's to Purdue. Please call Mary at #634·2994. 
I need 2 BYU GAs. 

Will pay Big $$$. Please call Laura: 284-4328. 
HELPI I need 2 TIX to the Stanford Gamel Call Patty at 1-800-697-9141, leave message. 
SEEKING TO BUY TWO OR FOUR GA TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL NOTRE DAME HOME FOOT­BALL GAMES. CALL BILL HOGAN, DURING DAY AT OFFICE AT 
(217) 782-6995, AFTER 10 PM AT (217)698-9267. 
NEEDED: TICKETS FOR THE BC GAME. CALL LIZ AT 284·5012. 
NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S! call Erin @ x2770 
I NEED 2 G.A. TIX FOR PURDUE CALL grace x4290 
· SEATTLE A TTY'S WILL PAY TOP $FOR 2 STANFORD G.A.S 
(219) 289-3412 

NEED 2 BYU GA'S AND 4 PUR· DUE GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$$ call Brian@ X1739 
WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR KATE@ 271.0224 
2 BYU GA'S ARE NEEDED! I CALL NICOLE@ 1287. 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 Purdue GA's OR new family willing to adopt a soon-to-be disowned son 
Call Troy 255-1740 

I need BYU stud tix-<:all Aaron @1889 
I need 2 PURDUE stud. tix. Call Bill x1862 
NEEDED: ND FAN NEEDS 4 GA Tl CKETS FOR NO/PURDUE GAME. PLEASE CALL BRENT (602)820-7469 
I NEED PURDUE TICKETS!! II! $$$$GA OR STUD X4976 
I NEED TWO NAVY G.A. CALL MIKE X3692 

I HAVE 2 PURDUE GAs. I WANT 2 AIR FORCE GAs.... PLEASE CALL IF YOU WANT TO TRADE! Call Katie at X2719. Thank you! 
NEED 3 GAs or STUD. tix for PUR­DUE call Rob x-4333 
Ticket Trade: Have 2 Stanford GAs, need to trade with 2 Purdue GAs, call 273-0226. 
Need 6 stu. ticks tor Purdue call Kevin @ 273-8699 
I need 2-4 GAs or 1 stud. ticket for any home game! Please call soon! Lindi-284-5151 
Need GA's for Purdue! Call Jeff X2174 
HELP!!! I NEED 3 PURDUE GA'S $$$CALL JEANNIE x2891 $$$ 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR STAN­FORD GAME SO PARENTS CAN SEE FIRST ND FOOTBALL GAME. CALL MARIANNE X3295 
I HELP! need 1 GA ticket to NAVY game, for little brother. Call Paul 4-1008 
I need MANY Stanford GAs I have $$and/or stud tix to BYU, Navy and AF to trade! Amy x4838 
1 PURDUE STU TIX 4 SALE! CALL MICHELE @ 3887 
Need 1 Purdue ticket call Tom 289-3203 
WANTED: 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. TIX FOR BYU. WILLING TO PAY $$$PLEASE CALL MARY AT 273­2926. 
I need BYU GA's and student TIXIIII Please call Chris@ x4485. 
Help! I need two GA's to BYUII Call TARA at 273-388511 
NEED 2 STANFORD GAs WILL PAY BIG$$$$ CALL PAT 273­9760 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 2 STANFORD TIX 
Will Trade 4 Navy Tix or Pay Big Bucks. Please help me out-Pat x3515 
Need 2 GA's tor Purdue, Stanford, & Navyl X1421 
Ticket Trade-I have 2 Navy GA's to trade for 2 Purdue GA's call x3001 Mark 
I Need 4 Purdue Tix Together Will Pay Big $$$! Call Rosie Collect 313-668-9952. 
Need 2 Purdue GAs -call Rob @ 1304 
$$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs. Please 9all Lisa at 277-0740. Will ' pay toi:{dollar5.$$$ ~ 
•1 
WANTED: 2-6 GA OR STUD. NAVY TIX. CALL LISA 2364. 
TAILGATE/CAMPUS PARTY GOURMET SPECIALTIES FROM OUR LITTLE FARM! The best country home smoked turkey you'll ever taste! Fresh, tender, juicy, fla­vorful, beautiful golden brown! All natural homemade family recipes! Cranberry chutney spread for smoked turkey sandwiches, mint jelly for biscuits, our famous fresh homemade salsas for tortilla chips, chocolate raspberry sauce for fresh fruit, morel Game day deliveries available! Sharon's Country 
Kitchen (219) 674.0384 
WANTED 3 GA EITHER ND VS PUR, STAN, BYU CALL COL 215­355-7131 
ND FAMILY REUNION needs Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call 517-332-4719. 
TO TRADE · 8 (6 TOGETHER) STANFORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR ED BULLEIT 800-786-8723. 
Have pairs of Stanford and Airforce GA's willing to trade for Michigan or Fl. State GAslll Contact x4097 asap. 
Need 2 BYU GA tix. Need 3 Stanford STD. tix. Need 2-6 Stanford GA tix. I'm in some seri­ous NEED so please call Rachael at x4667. Will pay BIG MONEY. 
NEED 1 MICH. 4 PUR., 
+ 2 STAN. STUD TIX. CALL 234-8958. 
I need 2 GA's for the Navy Game!Call Ryan at 3333. 
Will trade 4 BYU GA's for 4 Stanford GA's. Call Scott (ND 91) 
@ (201)402-9372 
$$$$$$$$$$$ Parents & Iii sis R flying in for the STANFORD GAME. Need 2-4 GA'sl Please Call Dayne 273-4412 $$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need 4 Navy Ga's David x3406 
NEED 2 GAs TO PURDUE CALLx3213 
••• ATTENTION ALL VERY ••• •• COMPASSIONATE FEMALES •• Desperately need 1 Stud. Tix for HTH at Purdue and BYU gameslll Please call Steve x3213 
I NEED BYU GA'S, BYU STD'S, AND 2 STANFORD GA'S. MIKE X-3767. 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL SUZY AT 4072 

I NEED 3 PURDUE GAs-x4872 r 
We still have 4 married student tick­et booklets for sale (NO id required!). Will sell whole booklet or just individual games. Call Sean@ x 1101. 
I NEED PURDUE TIXI SANDYx4638 
FOR SALE: 2 STD ticket booklets (or just individual games) and 2 Married Student booklets (or just games) No ID required. Call Sean at 634-1101 
I need 2 Purdue GAs for my par­ents. Name your price. Call Jim at 289-5486. 
Need GAs Any Home Game 4-3703 
$$$Wanted: Two Stanford & 

B.Y.U. G.A.'s. If you have the tix., I have the cash.$$$ Call Eric 4073. 
I HAVE 4 PU AND 4 NAVY GA TIX. NEED TO TRADE FOR STANFORD TIX. 634-1728. 

WANTED: ONE PURDUE TICKET, STUD. OR G.A. CALL TODD: 273-5352 
I NEED FOUR TICKETS TO THE STANFORD GAME ON OCTOBER 
1. CALL B. J. AT 1244. 
WILL TRADE 2 STAN FOR 2 FSU CALL KAREN X4290 
NEED GA'S TO ALL HOME GAMES. CALL JOE AT 2712. 
Need 3 GAs tor any home game. Call Mike 674-5125 
Wanted 2 or 3 GA's together for BYU 10/15 or Air Force 11/19 Call Lara 219/273-8961 
Need Stnfrd stdnt or GA tixs, call Chris x1197 
$$1 NEED 2 Purdue GAs$$ Call Rich at 273-2474 
I need stud. tix for Purdue. Call Tom at 271-1390 ASAP. 
Need lotsa Navy Tix or GAs Have Big Family Charlie x3830 
HELP! Need 2 GA or studs for BYU. KATE@2732 
Need 2 Purdue GA's.Call John x3283 
I need Purdue GA's. Call Eric at 232-8337 
2 married stud tix book 4 sale. 2730673 
Please! I need 4 NAVY GAs and 2 STANFORD GAs! Mary Beth x4220 
Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call Sue at 277-8995 

I need 5 Purdue Stud. Tix 2 Stanford & 2 Navy GA's I will pay big bucks, I mean huge$11 This is not a frosh joke addlll Call Kit 1670 
Help! I need two Stanford GA's call Jen at 273-0741 
I need 4 Navy GA's pleasellll Mark x1640 

Needed -1 BYU GA for my dad will pay $$$ and/or trade marr. std. Call Tim 631-3036. 
ND Family Reunion Need 4-6 STAN FORD GA's Family has airfare, now we need tickets! I Call x3650 

HEY! Do you have 2 stu. tix or GA's for AIR FORCE??? PLEASE call Shan x4456 I PURDUE......J need 1 student ticket Please call Kristin x3577 
I NEED 2 BYU GA'S I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S WILL TRADE OR BUY call chris x3913 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE AND STANFORD! CALL BOB *1233 
I have 1 Air Force GA that I want to trade for a Purdue GA Call Chris X4358 
Need GAs tor Purdue. Call Pat 0915. 
Need 2 STANFORD GAs for dad and bro. TOP $$1 Anna x2286. 
I need 1 student ticket to Stanford. Call Eric X1105. 
I need 1 Stanford student ticket. Call Dan X3883. 
I NEED GAs FOR BYU, NAVY AND AIR FORCE. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL TONY X3883. 
PERSONAL 
SKYDIVINGII Experience the ulti­mate of all sports with the Great Lakes Skydivers. We are the oldest and most experienced club in the area. We have several different training programs available, all approved by the USPA. Call for class times and schedules. Located 
1 hour North of South Bend. 1-616· 628-4892. 
WANTED: PHEMALE PHISHEADS PHOLLOW PHISH PHALL BREAK. SHOWS 10/25-27. CALL MATT@277-9926;SLIM@ 271-9676 
Seamaisin is looking for musicians interested in Irish music. Call 1­7021 
Student Activities is now hiring 
SOUND TECHs-apply at 315 
LaFortune by Friday, Sept. 16 
HEAR THE NOW SOUNDS 
OF WVFI 640 AM STARTING THIS MONDAY AT 7:30A.M. 
Quality Copies, Quicklylll 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
Congratulations to the members of Irish Accent! 
ADAM HICKS PAUL KESSLER JENNIFER PHILBIN STEVE WALK 
Thanks to all who tried out and remember the Alamo! 
PLS majors unite and take over! 
Interested in being a Nocturne DJ or International (World Beat) music DJ for WSND FM? Stop by the 
station TODAY between 1-4:30 
p.m. in the 4th floor of O'Shag. Please bring a short resume including 2 references. Call Susan at 1-7342 for more information. 
Lou Baker, Plllleeaasseel 
I desire 1 Stanford Stud. 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY RACHEL PROUTY! WITH LOVE AND WINE COOLERS, THE KEENAN KREW. 
Craving some reggae? Tune into WSND 88.9 FM Saturday nights from midnight until two. 

-
Do you like American music? I like American music.... 
Do you like classical music? Do yol like to talk? Do you have time to be a DJ? Call WSND FM 1-7342 and ask for Harriet. If she's not there please leave a message anyway. She will call you back. 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 16, 1994 
• COU.EGE fOOTBAll 
Ohio Stadium sentimental for Buckeyes 

"An Evening In the Orient" 
staning 
Ruby ]a::;ayre and Jasmin ]ahal 
also fea[uring 
Government office, second
Ten Troupes and Eleven Soloists from around the Midwest 
By CHRISTOPHER SULLIVAN 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Eighty-nine thousand seats in the great stadium echoed a haunting sound: a trumpeter practicing, all alone, 20 rows above the football field on a cool fall evening. His fragments of melody drew in curious stu­dents heading home from class. They listened, applauded, then walked out. 
A few days later, as people passed the same spot en route to study or teach, a clinking­metal sound, mixed with mili­tary commands, broke the quiet. High up the sheer walls, camouflaged ROTC cadets de­scended on ropes anchored to stadium seats. 
Throughout any day, in class­rooms on one side of the stadi­um, quiet discussions of litera­ture or experiments in psychol­ogy go on. 
Every night, about 370 spe­cially chosen students sleep in 
BYU's Edwards seeks 200th 
ByBOBMIMS 
Associated Press 
PROVO 

LaVell Edwards labored 22 seasons to reach the threshold of his 200th victory. Now he is one win away from joining an elite club that has only 13 other college football coaches. 
But it is not the prospect of rubbing statistical elbows with the likes of Bear Bryant, Pop Warner and Joe Paterno that has the Brigham Young coach excited about Saturday's game with Colorado State in Cougar Stadium. 
"The big thing is, I never really thought about it before," Edwards mused. "It's some­thing that will happen some­time. If it happens this week­end, that will make us 3-0 in the conference, and that's the big thing right now." 
What Edwards (199-73-3) does not want is to wait for his 64th birthday -Oct. 11 -to celebrate his 200th triumph. 
"It would be nice to win one here soon to get it out of the way so we can focus on every­thing else," he said. 
For Edwards, that would be winning his 17th WAC crown overall and sixth consecutive piece of the -championship. But CSU coach Sonny Lubick, also undefeated approaching Saturday's noon kickoff, has his own title aspirations. 
He also would like to even his personal ledger in Provo. The last time Lubick coached on the building's dormitory, set up during the Depression for those who had the grades but not the money to be on campus. 
Oh. and one more thing -on Saturday afternoons here, Ohio State plays football. 
The point is simple: Besides the cheering, stomping hulla­baloo of a few autumn Saturdays, a great college sta­dium, like the 72-year-old Ohio Stadium, can have another life that the students see best, one that makes this concrete cavern a sentimental spot for them. 
"You're up there looking over the whole campus," said Seth Jones, a sophomore and one of the students who live and work in the cooperative, coed Scholarship Dorm inside the stadium. 
He was recalling an annual spring dance they hold up in the pressbox. "We work togeth­er all year, and so we go up and have a good time. You're sitting up there, looking down.... It's pretty neat." 
Cougar ground was in 1990, when as defensive coordinator for then No.1-ranked Miami, he witnessed a 28-21 BYU upset. 
"LaVell is a heck of a coach. But he'll have hundreds of opportunities to get that 200th win. I don't think he'd mind that much delaying it another week. I know I wouldn't," Lubick quipped. 
What is not a joke is CSU's unusual status as a WAC con­tender. After beating Air Force 34-21 and Utah State 41-16, the Rams' secondary -led by Ray Jackson, with two inter­ceptions in as many games -is ranked fourth nationally in pass defense. · 
The Rams also have unveiled an effective pass rush, record­ing eight sacks against USU ­three of them by defensive end Brady Smith. 
On Saturday, Jackson and Smith will test BYU quar­terback John Walsh, who strug­gled in a 13-12 opening victory at Hawaii only to uncork for 315 yards and three touch­downs in last week's 45-21 vic­tory at Air Force. 
"Our defensive backs will be a huge factor in the game. They are playing well ... with maturi­ty and poise," Lubick said. "They can make plays that keep us in the game." 
But if CSU poses the most serious threat so far to BYU's vaunted passing attack, the Cougars finally appear to have 
The dorm was set up in the 1930s when an administrator discovered that 80 Ohio high school valedictorians could not afford tuition, room and board and so had no plans to attend college. Students are still selected on the basis of grades and finances. Today they have a library, a music room and their own dining hall, where many work to repay their schol­arships. 
Even though football games are literally next door, resi­dents have to buy tickets like everyone else. And the decibel level during games? Not bad usually, Jones said. "Now sometimes, when they're play­ing Michigan ... " 
Arch-rival Michigan played Ohio State in the horseshoe­shaped stadium's dedication game back in 1922. The struc­ture cost $1.3 million to build, most of that paid by donations. 
The tallest stadium wall rises 98 feet, but Army ROTC cadets climb and descend only part of 
fielded a respectable defense of 
their own. 
Ranked 104th out of 106 
Division 1-A schools as it yield­
ed 476 yards per game in 1993, 
BYU's defense has slashed that 
to 327 yards -including just 
122 yards rushing. 
Rams quarterback Anthoney Hill is not afraid to pass, having thrown for 384 yards and three TDs, but CSU relies on a run­. ning attack that has averaged 
248 yards per game. 
E.J. Watson, who ran for 177 yards in the Rams' opener, missed last week's game against USU with a foot infec­tion and was doubtful for Saturday. However, CSU can turn to Leonice Brown, who is averaging 100 yards per outing. 
"We have some depth (at running back). However, E.J. is a little special. He has that knack and ability to get an extra yard, and that could be very important in a game like this," Lubick said. 
Do YOU WANT CABLE IN YOUR DORM ROOM? 
Return your cable TV survey ASAP to the Student 
that height, often starting as the sun is just rising. 
"Psychologically, 50 feet's enough," said Lt. Col. Tom Ward, a professor of military science, describing what looks like an assault scene in an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie. "It has a good vertical surface." 
Rappelling, a sheer drop using pulley-like ropes secured to the stadium's seats, lets cadets confront a natural fear, he said. "We use it as a confi­dence-building exercise." 
Another confidence builder goes on in the stadium parking lot, as small groups of hopeful musicians. horns tipped sky­ward or tucked under their arms, practice the "snap-and­go" moves they hope will win them a spot on the 224-mem­ber marching band. 
Band director Jon Woods is moved by that scene. "Inspiration," he calls it. "You see four or five kids marching through the cars ... , as director 
Saturday -September T7 
C NOT~~MEV 
. R~OTJNTR I_ 
vs. 

at the BURKE MEMORIAL 
GOLF COURSE 
~ 

~ 9:45 & 10:30 s g Saturday September 17 
you say, 'I've got to find a place for them.'" 
One reason why Mindy Wright, who coordinates the English Department's Writing Workshop for first-year stu­dents, likes being in the sta­dium is that she hears the soli­tary horn player sometimes. "It's kind of magic. It really echoes underneath the sta­dium." 
Another reason: it's easy to direct new students to her office -"Right next to Gate 16." 
On game days psychology professor Neal Johnson can almost always be found in the Behavioral Sciences Lab in the stadium, doing experiments in perception and cognition. He turns his television to the game but leaves the sound off until the roar of the real-life crowd signals he should turn it up. 
Anything else different on game day? "The parking's lousy," he joked. 

presenting 
Authentic Middle Eastern Belly Dancing &ttdl Commwni[J Cenf<T Theatre 904 N. Main 
floor LaFortune or to the
Mishawaka, IN 
Doors open 7:00p.m. -Show starts 8:00p.m. 
$10.00 per person in advance $15.00 per person at the door far ricket infonnation conOlCI: Rwlry}at~JJTe 219-234-3355 
envelope in your dorm! 
----~--­
Friday, September 16, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•
•In-Une Hockey Tournament-$5 insurance fee and trans· should contact C()ach Dennis from 7pm to lOpmin the pitof lies. For more info. call This one day, double elimina-··· portation will no~<,be proyided. <.:.Stark atW~$9~3• . . !;: •.•..0;,;;;;:•:,< t~e JA(:C, Att.eri~ahce isl!~ti RecSports atl· 6100. tion tournament will take place For more information call •Rowing Club .. The RoY{ipg quired fo~>hoth dtf~es. F~r ... on Sunday, September 18 at RecSports at 1-6100. Club needs a coach. Please call more information, ~all ShaWQ •Horse Riding Lessons ­Outpost Sports (3602 N. Grape Chris at 273-3975. .-.... (x1,989) or ~att(?34;8958)... · Informational meeting Rd., Mishawaka, IN 259·1000). •Aerobic das~es • Classes •:Novice llowers ~ Practice ·b'e~ IIIMomen's La.cro~se t Practi(re( Thursday, eptember 22, 7 p.m. It will be an 8 team, 5 on 5 have started for Challenge U gins Wednesday at 4:30 and starts today at 9pm in Loftus; ih the Rolfs Aquatic Center {including goalie} tournament. fitness. Make sure to bring 5:45. Meet at the main circle Bring any e~tra ~tie)cs. ·classroom. For more info. call All equipment will be provided your green exe~piser li;) card apdbrlnginsuran~~ for~lJ;;!1\~ ··· • ···· · Re¢Sports at ~~6100. by Rollerblade, bur partici-with you, Some Classes ate ~till 110t too late to join; Just~hgw ·•Family Swim ~ Fri •"Challenge U" Aerobics ­pants are encouraged to pro-open. Call the RecSports Qffice up Wed11esday, Thursdl\y; September16, 7..;9 p.m. at Rolfs Some classes remain open. vide their own skates. The fee ~o find o11t more l:tllormation, .Frida)'! •. . .. ·.· ..-.. L.,, A~~f),ti~ CeP:'~f' R y r Thereis very limited space in is $10 per team··and you·must ;}>Special Olympic~· Ariyorie h:t· •Men's Volleyi:Jall-s · 'penriy diV;es .. and_ ..-.•... k~-Step,plasses ]eft. Please call or register in advance at terestedin volunteering for the vvill be held September 18from Op(m to all Notre Dame wa.lkinto the RecSports office RecSports. There will also be a Special Olympics in swimming ?pm to 5pm and Septemb~t 19 · F~culty/ ~tafi and Jh,t:lir faDlj~ for information about sign-ups. 

BUY 2AND SAVE! JUNIORS' RIBBED COTTON TOPS 
SALE 2/$20·$30, reg. $14-$18 each. The latest look in cropped, cardigan and other great styles from Energie bi Currants and Croquet Club. 
SUSPENDER JEANS, overalls and grandfather pants from L.E.I., Rio and Palmetto's, ONLY 34.99. 
page 18 Friday, September 16, 1994 

• BASEBAlL 
Little chance for. 
new Major League 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO 

Buffalo wants baseball, but not that way. Pittsburgh needs money, but not if it means sink­ing the Pirates. In St. Petersburg, Fla., and Phoenix, they'd rather wait for the real thing. 
Anyone trying to organize a rival baseball league in the wake of this season's major league meltdown won't find stadium doors swinging open to welcome them. Whatever prob­lems the big leagues have, they still have friends and would-be friends in many, many places. 
"At this point in time, our in­terest is pretty low," Rick Dodge, the city administrator in St. Petersburg, where they are trying to find a tenant for the Thunder Dome, said Thursday. "Our interest right now contin­ues to be pursuit of major league baseball as we -currently know it." 
Since the baseball strike be­gan, there have been water­cooler discussions about whether the players would form their own league. After the owners canceled the rest of the season Wednesday, those discussions became more seri­ous. 
Player agent Dick Moss is try­ing to set up an eight-to 12­team league for next season. He did not return calls seeking comment, but potential sites mentioned include Buffalo, St. Petersburg and cities where the stadium isn't owned by the team. 
"-Every time somebody wants to start a new league, they call Buffalo," said Robert Rich Jr., who owns the Triple-A Bisons and their home, Pilot Field. "It's natural. We're not in it, and we have a beautiful sta­dium. 
"But would we be burning our bridges and potentially elimi­nating ourselves from consid­eration for a major league 
.. baseball team? That would be a consideration for me," he said. ''I'd have to think about it." 
Phoenix is a front-runner for baseball's next expansion, and they've already approved plans to build a stadium -but only for a big league club. What if a new league promised them a team right away? 
"I think the board that man­ages the stadium district would be reluctant to say, 'We're go­ing to kick in this tax that's go­ing to raise a quarter of a bil­lion dollars for a new team in a start-up league,"' said Eric Anderson, executive director of the Maricopa County Stadium District. 
Mike Collins, who runs Three Rivers Stadium for the city of Pittsburgh, wasn't sure whether the Pirates' lease pre­vented him from renting the stadium out to another baseball team. 
It doesn't matter; he isn't in­terested. 
The city is doing all it can to keep the Pirates, who are for sale. And competition would probably only hasten their de­parture. 
"You don't want to preclude anything. But I think it would be highly unlikely that we would pursue anything like that in the near future." he said. 
"I would think that just about the last thing we should do when we're trying to save the Pirates for the city of Pittsburgh is to have someone buy the team and then tell them we leased the stadium out from under them." 
What if the strike lasts well into next season? "I don't know. I still say it 
would be unlikely." Collins said. "But if they came to us and said, 'Boys, it doesn't look like we'll have baseball as we know it, see what you can do for yourselves.' Then, maybe." 
Rich tried for years to get a major-league team, but he did· n't apply this time because of the labor strife. If markets like Pittsburgh and San Diego are struggling, he said, what chance does Buffalo have? 
Rich said he will listen -even doing background checks on potential associates "to see if they're for real." But he wouldn't get involved unless a new league has the kind of sta­bility the old one lacks. 
"If they are for real, I think we would be ill-advised not to talk to them," he said. 
So far, he hasn't heard any­thing he liked. 

'Ai:f" McNair' a•I-AA"'wonder 
the 1987, ballo,~ing to_ Tim In the season-opener. McNair Brown ofNotre Dame and Dan passed for S34 yal'ds and five McPherson ofSyracuse. touchdowns and rushed for 99 
LORMAN,Miss. Will big numbers be enough yards in a 62•56 loss at H·W!t'll thl;l numben Steve.4 ,, for McNair? t __ .--· Cframhling.If not for a dropp~d McNp.ir is putting up; the num· · The knock: McNair isn'tplay~ pass in the end zone with 10 ber I-AA may not matter when ing against the likes of Florida, seconds left, McNair would if~ tpxle to vote for this year's _ Notre Darnel Ne~raska and the have been 4-0 against the ~eis,tp.an'rr!>J.?ltY.winne:r. ;';;;other Division I~owE)rs, an~ P.e }3udH~ Robinson, college fQot­. No Division 1-AA player has gets little exposure in the ball's alHime winningest coach everwon college football's Southwestern Athletic with 389 victories. .. mo$~ coveted individual prize, Conference, an ~ight-tea~,.,.~?n-Last Saturday, McNair ·set l­bnt if"Airn McNair keeps pro· ference of. historically black Mf, records with 647 yards total 
ducing reeord~breaking num• colleges in the South. offense {491 passing and 156 bets, the Alcorn State quarter• "I do!!'t think (lwAA players) rushing} and eight TD passes in hack vvill he ~ar!l toignore. get enough recqgnition ~1' ,pub~ a 54-28 victory at Tennessee­
. · Through tWO games this sea· licity. not enough voter~. see Chattanooga. son. McNair has 1,025 yards them play," said ESPN com· ''What he has done (in two artd.t~ touc}ldowns. The 6· mentator LeeC~r~o. wh? has ~ames) is a season f()r the aver­
,fg~~~~. ?t;-S·p{Jund se.nior. also <'$een McNair 6p}'f ori tap~; ~:trf age quarterback," said Alcorn has ?55 yard!) and a rushing he was anywhere else, he coach Cardell Jones...Steve is 
TD. ·· w would have a great shot at the not an average quarterback by 
--!iil HE)isman. ·.... yshape, form or fashion." 
pce"J~•a-:1ifetw~ath· !'FJe }la~ goftb& of ones; who admits still being 'd Dave·Te, Thomas of the country. The prob em is amazed by his quarterback, .FL DraftReport, ~n iflde· <people who vote for.the _WlJ,S the only college coach who a$ency~·''N(l .. .,;,;;;~e~~Ill;~-alway~~rjngup~'lop~ !lJdn't want McNair to play 
one Qithe N ·.·. can b!>ld a can•Aiflatwhtilte is doingitagai~t~;:;'· defensive back out of Mount dle trithis kid.~' Only one SWAC player, pong Olive High. That is why McNair . ~eNair is ~fth in NCtM histo• _Williams. of Gra~}>ling ~tate, is at Alcorn, rather than a I"A ~f .. ~ivi~ion$)With)2,304:iLThas :fil»shed aill,o~gthe tov four .. schOol. 
y _ of total offense, 373,ziin t~e Heisman voting. That ••steve has the total package. yards agame. He has complet·""' was m 1977 before he became You find some quarterbacks ~.ci.6~~ 7of•1,239 p~~es (55 per~. .a Sup~~_ Bowl MYP wi~~ the qave a great arm. but not the e~rtt)for 10,6~8 yards and 88"'' Washington Redskins. .•:.: great foot speed," Jones said. touchdowns, ·and rushed for · ''He's equally dangerous either 1,646 yards and another 25 While preseason Heisman way." 

favodte Tyrone Wheatley of McNair not only has an accu­
lnc~ui~o•way player Michigan was sidelined with a rate passing arm, he can avoid Gordie Lockbaum of Holy Cross shoulder injury the first two the rush like few before him. has a,.·. I~AA P~{Lyer gotten so weeks of this seas!>n, McNair He has made a habit of scram~ much attentiO'rf in the Reisman was co.ffipiling astronomical bling outofbig Josses and turn· race.. Despite a campaign for numbers. And· no other ing them into gains. He.has a him by Sports Illustrated, Ueisman hopeful took as bold a 5.8-yard per carry career av• L(Jckba.um still finished third in step forward. erage. 
... JH>· 
'" ...:.J(. 
r================-========================9J 
Fall Break Sem.inars 
October 23-28, 1994 ExperientiaVService Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHITASENUNAR 
Service learning at one of eleven sites in the Appalachian region Analysis of rural concerns One-credit Theology 
NEW WOMEN. NEW CHURCH Explore the changing role of women in the Church, and related issues of service 


Experiential learning at various sites, with women in social ministry One-credit Theology or Gender Studies 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR Explore the cultural richness of Chicago Examines issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs 
WASHINGTON SENUNAR 
Theme: Our Violent Society 
Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government 


Applications Available Now at the Center for Social Concerns 
_F_ri_&~y_,S_e~p_te_m_b_e_r_16_,_1_99_4 ~·-T_he T~S~--------------------------------------~p~~~e-1_~-------~
__________________________ __O_b_se_IT_e_r_•_S_P_O_R__ 
Florida State players given reprieve ­
By BRENT KALLESTAD Associated Press 
TALlAHASSEE 

The NCAA restored the eligi­bility Thursday of five sus­pended Florida State football players, freeing All-American linebacker Derrick Brooks and reserve offensive lineman Marcus Long to play Saturday. 
However, the NCAA extended the two-game suspension of senior tailback Tiger McMillon to three games. Patrick McNeil had been suspended for three games and Forrest Conoly for four games. 
All were disciplined for taking gifts from a prospective agent last November. 
Florida State appealed the de­cision on McMillon and said a ruling was expected during a conference call Friday. 
"I believe our players have proved they have learned their lesson and have stepped up to these suspensions with real character," said Florida State Presid.ent Talbot "Sandy" D'Alemberte. ''I'm proud of them, and I am especially proud of Tiger McMillon. He came forward early on, and we gave him great credit for that." 
"We generally agreed with Florida State on the appropri­ate sanctions for these young men," said Carrie Doyle, NCAA director of eligibility. "The facts indicate that McMillon's actions more clearly violated NCAA amateurism rules than (Brooks and Long) who received two­game suspensions." 
McNeil, a three-year starter at guard, will also miss a fourth game tacked on by coach Bobby Bowden for an unspecified vio­lation of team rules. 
"Getting this all behind us is a relief, no doubt about it," said Bowden. 
vene after federal judge William Stafford signed off on an agreement Tuesday between the NCAA and attorneys for Florida State and the Florida Board of Regents. 
Brooks, one of the nationts most dominant defenders, and Long are expected to play Saturday when the third­ranked Seminoles visit Wake Forest. 
"It feels good to have it behind us," said Brooks. "Now we know we don't have to play this season with a cloud over us.'; 
And Brooks said he hopes to help the Seminole defense re­
McMillon, who led the Seminoles in rushing two years ago, will appeal his increased penalty and would be able to rejoin the team Saturday if suc­cessful. 
While Bowden was disap­pointed about the extra game suspension, McMillon was an­gry. "I've got nothing to say about it," he said. 
Except for McMillon's case, the penalties mirrored those handed down by D'Alemberte. The school declared the players ineligible again Tuesday after the court's temporary injunc­tion let the NCAA rule without violating state law. 

Morris Inn Reservation Lottery 
Sign up in the Junior Class Office· by 3 p.m. on Tuesday 
Winners will be posted by Friday, Sept. 23. 
~)-••• 11: Jf •••• 11­
WESTERN 
D'Alemberte originally sus­gain the dominance it enjoyed Although Bowden had said he pended the players while the last season. felt his players had already school and NCAA went to court "There's just no way our de­been punished enough, school over Florida's due process law, fense should be ranked where officials were reluctant to risk which stalled a fmal answer on it is now," he said. "We need to forfeit or further penalties by • the players' eligibility. get it together and get that atti­playing the athletes without 
The NCAA was freed to inter-tude back." NCAA approval. 

Irish runners face Hoyas 
By RANDY WASINGER "We've got nine of our top ten ished 3rd in the last season's Sporu Writer runners coming back this year, Georgetown dual meet. including our All-American Like her coach, Riley is also "This is the best team we've (senior) Sarah Riley," said optimistic about the team's ever had." Connelly. "We were ranked in chances this season. 
Those were strong words the polls all last season. The ·"We've got about 12-15 peo­from head women's cross coun­first poll for this season came ple who are really running well try coach Tim Connelly, and out at the beginning of the right now. We have lots of one might wonder how he week and we were 14th." depth." could make such a bold state­The women's squad will get Some of the other top runners ment this early in the season. their first chance to live up to on this year's squad include se­After all, the Notre Dame their lofty ranking tomorrow niors Kristy Kramer, Emily 
women's squad did finish 2nd morning, as they race Husted, Mirene Kelly, and in District 4 and 15th in the Georgetown at the Notre Dame Becky Alfieri, junior Amy nation last season, and it would golf course. Georgetown won Siegel, and sophomore Emily 
seem hard for this year's team .the dual meet last year, and Hood. As a freshman, Hood to better such a stellar perfo­eventually placed third in the missed All-American status by mance. country. However, Connelly is just one place. 
For the most part, however, still optimiStic about his team's "She's one of the best young 
that same team has returned. 
•••• IY 

't MARATHON
0 
0 

i' ... TODAY!
0 
+ 

6:00-8:11 UNFORGIVEN' $4.00
't +0 ,,

•., 8:20-10:15 GERONIMO 
() 
$3.00 
+ 
.,. 
' 

G 10:20-12:28 TOMBSTONE + $2o00 
0
., 

0 12:35-2:40 LAST OF THE 
•i' ., 

MOHICANS $1.00 
r------, 
() 
+ 

LOCATION: CARROLL AUDITORIUM 
chances. runners in the country," said 
"They beat us last time, but Connelly. every year we've been getting a The Irish have been training little more competitive," he hard in preparation for tomor­said. row's meet and the upcoming 
Leading the Irish in tomor­s e a s o n row's upset bid will be co-cap­"The team has been running tian Sarah Riley. She finihsed fifty to sixty miles per week," 33rd at the NCAA champi­said Riley. "Our workouts have onships last season with a per­included lifting weights and sonal best time for 5,000 me­morning runs." ters of 17:25. Riley also fin-"We're ready." 
THE ROMANTIC CO~IEDY AMERICA 
IS FALLING IN LOVE \\TJTH!· 
''IF ANYONE ASKS IF YOU WANT TO SEE 
'FOUR WEDDINGS' JUST SAY 'I DO!'" 
"A MOVIE TO JUMP UP AND DOWN AND CHEER FOR!" 
c...~.....111~ T!~(\1 !'110\1 
..

"~~~E~SELY 
ENTERTAINING! 
The perfect Spri!l~ feel-~!' Be prepared to exit smiling; 
K"'o.n Sonic•• THE 1~\l.l.\~ Hl'lk);IS<; l;t:lo~ 
"SPRING FEVER ON FILM!" 
• >~ 1-otl. c•~li<IIT ~l:t: PMii.'WO 
CINEMA AT 
THE SNITE 

Friday & Saturday 
7:30 and 9:45 pm 
--------~-------------,_-...,
---------~----------------~ 

The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 16, 1994 

Belles falter against Calvin 
By BECKY MAYERNIK 
Sporrs Writer 
Facing a tough Calvin College team, the Saint Mary's soccer team suffered their first defeat of the season yesterday. Hoping to improve their record for the home crowd, they were outscored by Calvin 3-0 making their record now 2-1. 
Suffering an injury near the end of the first half was goal­keeper Anne Kuehne, who had to leave the game at halftime. Although she made an early exit, Kuehn.e is expected to re­turn Saturday. Freshmen Eileen Newell and Debbie Diemer took over the goal for the remainder of the game, playing very strong at this new 
• position . 
"We're fortunate that we have such a versatile team and that we were able to pull two great keepers from the bench," said junior Cathlynn Howe. "If we have a loss in a certain posi­tion, we know there is always
Photo courtesy of Sports Information 

someone who can step right
Bill Lanza has returned to the Irish lineup after recovering from a knee 
in."
injury. 
Dean 
continued from page 24 
players up when they' re down." 
This leadership is key if the Irish are going to regain their winning ways. 
"If everyone is as focused as he is," Berticelli said. "The job will get done." 
Yet, though being captain is an honor, Dean doesn't feel it's neccessary. 
"It's an honor, but I don't think the captain title means much," Dean explains. "I have always tried to be a leader since freshman year. Today. we have twelve seniors. That means we have twelve cap­tains." 
There is, yet, another side to Chris Dean the soccer player. Chris Dean the student. 
Many people do not associate academics and athletics, but Dean is an exception. 
"Chris is the epitome of what 

,..-the student athlete should be," said History Professor Jay Dolan. "He has a strong work ethic in class and on the field. He challenges both his team­mates and his teachers." "He is an excellent student," Oates added. "He's involved in outside activities and just likes to help others out." Even though he doesn't like to talk about it, it is important to acknowledge that he has been recomended to be nomi­nated for the Rhodes Scholarship. When he looks back on his decision to attend Notre Dame, he is pleased. "I consider myself a lucky person," Dean said. "I've been fortunate to play on a great team. It's been a long road, but now it looks like we have a winner. 
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 

"Our defense picked up fur-
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore "On The us!" 
phone: 631-6316 store hours: Mon-Sat: 9a.m.-5p.m. 
Enter to Will! win! WIN! 
1stPlace: (one tvinnerJ 
AGIANr brand Mountain/Sport Bike from Albright's Bicycle Store 
2ndPlace: 
(tu.Jo tvinners) 
AJanSport Book Back 
Pack Filled With 40 
NEWCDs! 
3rdPla.ce: (one tvinner) 
ther into the game, but it was tough to get the offense going," stated junior Gwynne Davis. 
According to freshman Sarah Dakel, the Belles worked ex­tremely well as a team and was strong with their passing, but it wasn't enough against Calvin. 
"Calvin had a really good passing game and was very quick, so they were difficult to defend against," stated Davis. 
Saint Mary's will try to get their intensity back this week­end when they face Wisconsin­Whitewater Saturday and Illinois Wesleyan on Sunday, both at home. 


This has been a tiring week for the Belles, so they are look­ing forward to finishing on a strong note. 
"We're not going to take any teams lightly, and we'll play ev­ery game like they are our most difficult opponent," said Howe. 


From Guardian Angel to Fighting Irish 
Happy 18th B-day RobBamhom 
Love, Paul & Lisa 

A Sony Portable CD Player r--------------------"'"'~ 
••.-.-Th·dr-;w_?_/l;_~_:_~_han-el_d_L_~-~-~11-~-~-)-..... ~. 2NoLI:[croupon ~~~~mi1! l 
: : CD or g ~ -~ I • • I cassette I .<n ~ 9:3 l• • L m stock ~ e · 
.•• . --------------------~ 1 
•

• ac •• •.,_ ~~.y=~=.:::r~~;!:~. 
• ~ ~ fi£1AMSOHAU.IoW((SOfllaeFJU:IOD4YO€CXll'•o\UIIIlSA..SSflola.!D 
• tif"i•=wmw ~· ~. ..~,.~ 255-8988 • 
• ---•11111 ~~ ":J~'!!!!T IOCAIWDI•&OCGIAII-~ 
:-Serving Michigana For 80 Years :-Where Your Daddy Bought His Bike • • -Largest Selection of Bicycles in Michigana ~..-.-lii.I~A;';, 
: -Voted #I Bicycle Store .In Michigana 4th Year In ARow • : -*·FREE Giant U-Lock with Arrj New Bicycle Purchase : : wrrn TillS COuroN. Expires October 8, 19S4 • 
• -Giant ATB's Starting At $199.95•• -Save Up To $350.00 On Selected Models : -Just 5 Minutes From Notre Dame 
FREE GIVEAWAYS STARTING THURSDAY-9 a.m. 
--~-~~~ 
Friday, September 16, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• BASEBAll 
... 

Protester ends month-long stunt 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

The one thing Eric Cotton won't miss about his 35-day rooftop protest of the baseball strike is the 6 a.m. wake-up call from the chipper morning drive-time radio host. 
"They want you to be enthusi­astic all the time," he said while drinking a draft beer shortly after descending Thursday from the roof of Pickles Pub, which he has called home since the strike began. 
The vigil did little to convince the owners and players to make up, but did make him a celebrity. 
"Sleep was nil," he said. "I went to bed after last call at 2 
a.m. when the bar quieted down. And then the calls would come in the morning. Every day, it didn't stop. I finally started taking the phone off the hook so I could sleep past six." 
A friend stationed in Japan with the Marines even heard of the stunt, he said. 
Cotton went up on the roof at the coaxing of his boss, who thought of the publicity stunt, but said his real motivation was to bring attention to those not directly involved in base­ball who were hurt by the strike. 
Cotton worked two days a week at the bar directly across the street from Oriole Park at Camden Yards, making up to $300 on game nights. He was not paid during the vigil but was given free food and beer. 
Although he is glad to return to normal life, he would have preferred a different ending to the season. 
No Series: Who cares? 
By PAUL MULVEY 
Associated Press 
LONDON The world doesn't really care about the World Series. 
The French ignored it, the Italians gave it a fleeting men­tion, the English couldn't be bothered and even baseball­mad Japan only referred to the cancellation of this year's World Series in passing. 
News of the baseball players' strike and Wednesday's an­nouncement to call off the rest of the season has monopolized conversation in America, but not anywhere else. 
The French sports daily L'Equipe did not mention the cancellation at all. Its Italian counterpart, La Gazzetta dello Sport, gave it one paragraph, as did the Times of London newspaper. Only some of Japan's dailies carried brief wire stories. 
But in Zurich, Switzerland, headquarters of soccer's ruling 
• Vou.EYBALL 
body. FIFA, the possibility of a players' strike disrupting any match, let alone the sport's showpiece, was quickly dis­missed. 
"This sort of thing would be unthinkable in soccer," FIFA spokesman Guido Tognoni said. "It just couldn't happen here. Maybe this shows the difference between a global sport and a one-country sport. 
"In soccer there would be so much pressure on players they would always find a way to play. Only something like a major war could stop soccer, not discussions about money," he said. "I guess it proves that business alone doesn't make a sport. It is always unfortunate if you cancel something that is good for the leisure of people." 
English soccer came close to a strike in 1992 over the forma­tion of the current Premier League. 
The players' union, the Professional Footballers' 
Association, received 90 per­cent support from its members to take strike action over changes to pension rights, dis­ciplinary tribunals and con­tracts which clubs tried to make when they formed the Premier League. 
But a strike was averted when the matter was resolved well before the start of the 1992-93 season. 
"It's the ultimate sanction, it wouldn't be done without a lot of soul searching and thought," PFA deputy chief Brendan Batson said. "No one wants to see a strike, it damages the sport. But I can understand the baseball players not being too excited about the prospect of a salary cap." ­
Events with more than a cen­tury of tradition like the Wimbledon tennis champi­onships and the British Open golf championship have so far survived the vast sums of money being demanded by players. 
Baldwin, Duke run past Army 
tent running back, rushed for 
10 touchdowns in the entire 
1989 season. 
Baldwin would have had a fourth score on the second play 
-,

of the fourth quarter, but he fumbled at the end of an 8-yard gain. Freshman wide receiver Corey Thomas recovered the ball in the end zone for a touch­down and a 29-7 lead with 
14:45 left. 
In addition to 83 yards on 19 carries, Baldwin caught six passes for 60 yards. 
Duke (3-0), which opened the 
night with a safety off a blocked 
punt. is off to its best start since 
1988, when it won its first five 
games. 
Army (1-1) began the night 
with second-string quarterback 
Mike Makovec, who took over 
when Rick Roper tore the an­
terior cruciate ligament in his 
left knee in the sixth play of an 
opening-game victory over Holy 
Cross. 
Makovec was the starter two _ years ago before injuring his left knee against North Carolina and being replaced by Roper. 
ND vs. FSU 
Disneyland Package 4 Days, 3 Nights, 4 Tickets, 
Hotel, Air $1 0/Raffle Ticket Send Check to: NO Club of Austin 1712 Amber Skyway Round Rock, Texas 78664 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,0CXJ Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 [219)232-8444 
Welcome Parents! Come Join Us At • Breakfast served all day •Lunch •Dinner •Or a snack ANYTIME  By TOM FOREMAN Jr. pound out a 43-7 victory over Associated Press Army. Baldwin's scoring runs of 7, 3 DURHAM, N.C. and 2 yards give him seven Rob Baldwin added to his im­touchdowns after three games, pressive start to the season on the best performance by a Blue Thursday night, scoring three Devils running back since touchdowns in helping Duke Randy Cuthbert, Duke's last po-Happy  
Just Minutes from Campus OPEN cD ><24 HOURS CD E ra1710 0 N.lronwood 277-7400  Cara!  
fi Memorial Mass will be celebrated for filexandru Cf3urnbacea /Priday, September 16, 5:15p.m. ifJasilica ofthe Sacredjfeart /Pr. edward Malloy, C.S.C, cJ>resider and homilist friends and fellow students are welcome.  

~---~ 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
• Irish host Fallon Invitational 
Friday, September 16, 1994 


By PHIL LANGER Spons Writer 
It's fall. It's humid. It's time for the eighth annual Tom Fallon Invitational to visit the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Top talent from eleven schools including Notre Dame, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Michigan State University, Kentucky, DePaul, Purdue, Nebraska, Marquette, Northern Illinois, Wisconsin and Northwestern will battle it out at the Courtney Tennis Center this weekend for much more than bragging rights. 
"We are really excited about the strength and diversity of this year's field," remarked Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. "This has become one of the outstanding fall events in the country." 
Yet, most importantly, the weekend's tourament gives Coach Bayliss to showcase this year's championship team. This year's edition of the Irish features the return of six mono­gram winners from last year's team, newcomer Steve Flanigan, a senior transfer from West Virginia, and impact freshman Jukub Pietrowski. 
"We'll certainly miss Zurcher and Wilson, as well as doubles standount Allan Lopez," com­mented Bayliss, "All began their careers as walk-on play­ers and developed into great college players. But the addi­tion of Flanigan, Pietrowski and others to go with a very strong returning squad makes me feel that we will be significantly bet­ter in '95. The four returning starters were either freshmen or sophomores, and all had great summer results, so I can't wait to get started." 
It was much more than diffi­cult for the Irish coach to place this year's squad into the tour­nament's four flights with only a few practices for evaluation. But, never one to disappoint, a few noteables from Bayliss's list include sophomore Ryan Simme, junjor Mike Sprouse and Flannigan into the top 'A' flight; freshman Jakub Pietrowski, sophomore Ron Mencias, juniors John Jay O'Brien and Jason Pun in the ever competitive 'B' flight; and senior Horst Dziura in the 'C' flight. 
Those chosen representatives of the Notre Dame men's tennis team, ranked No. 18 at the close of last year, will face sev~ eral national standounts be­ginning at 8:45 a.m. Friday morning. 
• Vm.ttvBJHJ.. 
Irish stampede 
past Buffaloes 

in four games Special to The Observer 
The 13th-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team improved to 11-0 and picked up its first win over a top-15 opponent as the Irish defeat­ed Colorado 15-4, 3-15, 15­13, 15-12. 
"It was important for us to play well against a top-15 program," head coach Debbie Brown said. 

"It was good to see us rebound, especially after playing so poorly in the sec­ond game. We expected Colorado to mount a strong comeback. but we kept them in the match with our errors. The last two games were great, and I was glad to see us come from behind in game three," she added. 
Angie Harris had a match­high 25 kills while Christy Peters added 24 for the Irish. Karrie Downey had 22 to lead the Buffaloes. Jenny Birkner had a match-high 16 digs to lead the Irish defense­and added 10 kills. 
"Christy and Angie both did a great job," Brown said. "But everyone had to perform to get this win. At the end of the match, Colorado wasn't sure who to block, and that was the difference in the match for us." 
The key to the match was the third game where with the match tied at one game each, both teams had four­point leads but couldn't put the match away. 

0

L $5 off 
with this ad! 
Must have C>tudent l.D. ::J Offer expire.!!: November 1. 1994 
v ~ ~ full &rvice &Jon 1357 N. Ironwood Hair • ~kin • Nails 
(Comer of Edison @ Ironwood) AVE~ 
234-6767 


SOPHOMORES!!!! Get Involved! 
Apply for the position of JPW Sophomore Committee Chairperson!! 
Applications available at LaFortune information desk September 12-16. Application deadline September 16!!! 
The ObserverfLJ. Harris Jason Pun and the Irish open their 1994-95 season this weekend. 
PRESEI\'TS 
SOUTH BEND RECORD&CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18TH 10:00 AM-5:00 PM ADMlSSION $3.00 
AT: THE HOUDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 
515DIXIEWAYN. US 31 -33 NORTil. FREE Admission with this ad!! 
BUY. SELL.TRADE COLLECTIBLES FROM THE 

LP's-CD'i-45's-12 incll single-imporu JX>Stcrs -mlJgazines -boolcs -c0t1a:l1photos -viDeos t· slliru -ca.ssenes -pins -pa1dus and much more!!! 
FOR DEALER 

CAREER FAIR September 20, 1994 
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount BrokerSM is looking for motivated people to establish a career in the brokerage business. 
OLDE offers: 12-18 month paid training program Potential six-figure income Excellent benefits 
If you possess excellent communication skills, general market knowledge and the desire to excel, see us at the Career Fair on September 20, 1994. 
If you are unable to attend the Career Fair call: 
1800 937-0606 
or send resume to: OLDE Discount Stockbrokers National Recruiting 751 Griswold Street Detroit, MI 48226 
~OLDE 
D~COUNTSTOCKBROKERS 
Member NYSE and SIPC 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Order aSUBWAY 
·"' 
BMT ... 
(ham, genoa salami, pepperoni, bologna) 


• • • before watching the Irish 
Beat Miubigao SlaU Tomorrow 

[ 1 :00 SUNDAY! 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 

XAVIER 


Alumni Field -Behind the J.A.C.C. ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 
~ 
Friday, September 16, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 

'YOU  HAVE TO GO I  ACTUALL'(I  {'\~  /"\ERE  
CAT  YOU  HAVE NO  EXIST£NC£..  WILL  
VALUE 10 US.  WIDEN  '<OUR  DEMO­ 5  


GRAPHIC APPEAL AND 
I ~ 

MAKE 'YOU If'"\1"\0RTAL. 
~ 
! ~ 
~ 
~ 
@
i 
~ 
vi 
~-~~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Kittenish 54 Actor Vigoda response 
55 Quiescent1 Roomy sleeve 30 Fiery dance 
57Poison­
7 In the cards 31 Team originally 58Nymph15 Symphony called the Colt changed into awritten for 
.455 

bear
Napoleon ­33 Guard &o Like Don Juan 1& Furniture polish 35 Not clerical 
ingredient &2Added up 37 Split
17 Spreads the 63Drill news 38 Founder of 
64 Stonecutter 18With no 
Detroit &5 Less 

exceptions 42 Smith of sorts 
muscle-bound 19 Poet's 46 Prince Valiant's contraction wife 
DOWN
200newho's 47 Fanatic squeezed in 1 Daphne du 
49 Succinct 

22Mauna-Maurier novel 
so Scream and 

23 Rough it shout 2 In-(behind) 
25 Seating areas 51 Traveling aids 3 Bon vivant 26 Say truly 4 Year in
53 Business letter Claudius's reign 

27Upa-encl. 5 Romans preceder 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE & Countryish, in a 
When a 
Man 
Loves a 
Woman 
"An Unforgettable Celebration of the Human Spirit." -Bill Diehl ABC RADIO NE1WORK 
01-\ . .. A CAT. THAT'S ORIGINAL  GIVE. IT A REST, "MICKEY''  
I  
~  


~ 
is dead at Notre Dame?! 
Come, bring your 
significant other, your 
special friend, or some 
random date to see this 
movie about true love. Yecch! 
elts;11?1V; ~tJie?U?It 11 s~s;e 1994 
THE FAR SIDE GARY !.ARSON 


-· 
-·­

Indigo Girls coming soon. Brought to you by the Student Union Board. 

-


55 Part that's thrown away 
Meg Ryan 

Admission Only $2 G-O :J:~&JBE!! lBE"~ &:E-~~.A.:LW"& 
::;·• ..., ... ·. 
t 
SPORTS 

Friday, September 16, 1994 

• WoMEN's SoccER 
Spartans no sweat for Irish 
ByRIANAKEY "It was nice to put a team "Rosella scored two great Associate Sports Editor away early," said Petrucelli. "It goals," said Petrucelli, "but allowed us to rest some play­Julie Maund had to be the play­
Going into last night's match ers." er of the game. She controlled at Michigan State, Irish wom­Junior forward Rosella the midfield and came forward en's soccer coach Chris Guerrero scored the first of her very well. This was her best Petrucelli felt confident that the two goals just five minutes into game of the year." superior physical condition of the game, and senior co-cap­The win was also appeased his squad would help them out­tain Tiffany Thompson followed Petrucelli's fear of a letdown by last a physical Spartan team. just four minutes later with a his squad after two tough 
point-bland goal. Michelle weekend road wins. As it turned out, the Irish McCarthy added another score "We were very focused com­starters spent much of the in the first half after converting ing in to not have a letdown af­game resting on the bench. a give-and-go from Cindy Daws. ter our win at William & Mary. After scoring two goals in the While Petrucelli was pleased All the ingredients were there game's opening ten minutes, with the early goals, he was for a letdown. The travel, the the Irish coasted to a 4-0 win even more satisfied with the weather, the field conditions, over the Spartans, raising their play of freshman midfielder but the girls didn't let those season mark to 5-0. Julie Maund. things bother them." 
Dean is a dream 
Senior can't keep Irish from dropping MCC opener at Northern Illinois 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT "Chris has started every 
Sports Writer 
game at the same position [right defensive end] for 4
A Gatorade player of the year in Texas and the years," said Berticelli. "He Southwest region. has experie.nce that most players don't get, and we
A participant in the 1991 know what to expect from
U.S. Olympic Festival. him.
A member of the U.S. Under­"He provides tremendous
18 national team which trav­stability at the defensive end,
eled to Italy, France and and just shuts down the right
Canada. side of the field.~'
A starter every game of his "He has been one of the
career at Notre Dame. most solid defenders for four
An honor student with a3. 9 cumulative grade point aver­years," said senior Tim Oates. age. Yet, it is not just his athletic This man is senior captain ability that makes him such an asset, he is one of the main 
Chris Dean. 
Four years ago, he arrived leaders of this team. This with the first recruits of coach leadership ability has not Mike Berticelli. Today, he is gone unrecognized by his one of the most successful teammates as they elected 
members of the Notre Dame him co-captain this season. family. But, most importantly "Chris was elected captain to the soccer program, he is a because he is a leader on_ and off the field," said Berticelli.
great player. "He leads by example. He's
Even after a 2-0 loss last night to conference foe enthusiastic, vocal and demanding. He's demanding
Northern Illinois (3-1), the of himself and others. He has
season is not lost. When the Irish (2-2) play Xavier at tremendous intensity." "He is a great motivator,"
home Sunday at 1 p.m., the Oates adds. "He helps pick the
Irish will rebound, and Dean will be a main reason. see DEAN I page 20 

of note...

TENNIS, ANYONE? 
See Sports Extra for all the 
The Notre Dame tennis team hosts the 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan State 
Tom Fallon Invitational this weekend. 
... 
football details . 
See page 22 


NDTENNIS 




