

Friday, February 4, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.83 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Play ofthe Mind transforms, enriches life 
ByJENNIFER HABRYCH colleges. 
Saint Mary's Editor "We're trying to see ways to empower ourselves and find For Danny Gonzalez, coming our voices," Patrick White, to Saint Mary's Play of the Mind associate dean of faculty and 
P[ay oftfie Mind
conference titled "The Women's organizer of the conference College Experience" two years said. "The whole weekend is ago changed her life. planned around the value of 
When Gonzalez traveled here giving voice to our explorations 
'11ie• Cat/i.o!ic Womett1s Co!!eae £;rperiencefor the conference she was of who we are as a college so 
aint . . 's Co!!eae
questioning her choice of the we know where to go next." College of Saint Elizabeth. Eleven of the nation's 22 While she saw others at coedu­remaining Catholic women's cational universities enjoying colleges are taking part in this Auditorium an active social life, she did not weekend's conference in hopes feel she was being offered the of discovering the similarities, same at a women's college. differences and strengths that Saturday, February 5 
Gonzalez stood and told the these institutions share. 8:45-10:15 a.m. Catholic Women's COLLEGES-Our Academic and crowd that she was embar­"These colleges are as similar Intellectual Lives, North Regina Lounge
10:30 a.m~-12;15 p.m. Catholic WOMEN'S Colleges-Feminism
rassed for questioning her to as any other college can be, 
and Our. Missions, North Regina Lollnge
choice of a women's college we're sort of like a family" 
1:3o-3:® P~n'l· CATHOLIC Women Colleges-Tradition, Spirituality,
after hearing the discussion White said. "I hope it will be an 
and Se.rvicE!, North Regina Lounge :"·+ .
that transpired during the first intense, honest and frank dis­
3:3o-;.!;:9() p.m. The Futi.J~: Pow~r arid Diversity, North Reginasession of the conference. cussion." ·Lounge · ·•. . . · < ; iM;;;; · · Transformed and energized Sessions of the conference 7:00-8: .. • • Keynote Address; Carroll Auditorium by her experience at Saint will examine the Catholic, 8:45 p.m, In Our Own Voices, Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse 
Mary's, Gonzalez returned to women's and intellectual the College of Saint Elizabeth aspects of women's colleges as aided in the effort to resurrect well as looking to what the 
February 6 a dead student newspaper, future holds. .·· Liturgy, Our Lady.of Loretto 
wrote a play and began taking "We're looking to explore on various leadership roles. issues as students themselves 
This weekend, Professor explore them," White said. "I dent from Georgian Court picture." Margret Roman has traveled hope it will be a chance to see College in Lakewood, N.J. "It's And Saint Mary's students, with two new students from how rich the experiences of important for the next decade who will make up a majority of Convent Station, N.J. to Notre Catholic women's colleges are." to figure out what that is and the conference's 200 registered Dame, Ind. to represent the For many traveling to the bottle it." participants, are ready to see College of Saint Elizabeth in conference they are most inter­When students gather with how their experience in Notre Saint Mary's third Play of the ested in learning what makes other women's college students Dame, Ind. measures up to Mind Conference. She hopes their specific college similar they begin to put things into other Catholic women's colleges that their experience will be and different from other perspective, according to experiences. similar to that of Gonzalez. women's colleges. Roman. "I want to know if my experi­
The conference, "The "It's a wonderful opportunity "Their vision of the world ences at Saint Mary's are simi­Catholic Women's College to gather from around the enlarges. They meet people lar to those at other colleges," Experience," will focus on the United States and figure out the from different areas with differ­Junior Theresa Radostitis said. issue of what it means to be similarities and find out what's ent perspectives and cultural For Radostitis, the impor­part of the elite group of different." according to Amy impulses," Roman said. ''I'm remaining Catholic women's Lotano, a nontraditional stu-hoping to get a more complex 
see MIND I page 4 
Farrakhan dismisses aide, lashes out at ADL 
By SONYA ROSS Abdul Muhammad for a Nov. 29 ner in which those truths were smile," said David Harris, exec­Associated Press speech in which he called Jews represented." utive director of the American the "blood-suckers" of the Jewish groups said that Jewish Committee. WASHINGTON black community, labeled the remark belied Farrakhan's Jesse Jackson and NAACP 
Nation of Islam leader Louis pope a "no-good cracker" and denunciations of racism and director Benjamin Chavis had Farrakhan dismissed a top aide urged mob murder of white anti-Semitism. condemned Muhammad's Thursday for "repugnant" South Africans. speech and Farrakhan was remarks about Jews, then "Despite his protestations to under pressure to do so to pre­accused a Jewish group of try­"I found the speech, after lis­the contrary, he is the epitome serve recent support for the ing to destroy him, his tening to it in context, vile in of a racist and an anti-Semite," Nation of Islam's work in drug organization and other black manner. repugnant, malicious, said Abraham Foxman, presi­and crime intervention. leaders. mean spirited, and spoken in dent of the Anti-Defamation Rep. Kweisi Mfume, the 
Farrakhan also accused Vice mockery of individuals and peo­League, which published Maryland Democrat who heads President AI Gore and the Anti­ple, which is against the spirit Muhammad's comments in a the Congressional Black Defamation League of B'nai of Islam," Farrakhan said. full-page ad in the New York Caucus, said his group would B'rith of conspiring to spread "While I stand by the truths Times. not work with Farrakhan until lies about him. that he spoke, I must condemn "It was the same old bone­he clarified his views on what 
Farrakhan dismissed Khalid in the strongest terms the man-chilling hate, delivered with a Muhammad said. 


Students express concern regarding AIDS education 
Editor's note: The following is there are a definite lack of pro­Klau. "I don't think of the education, he said. the last in an ongoing series grams on their campuses, oth­CAMPUSES school as a source of education. "Mandatory dorm presenta­examining AIDS education and ers are unaware of the educa­I honestly would not go to the tions would be great," agreed awareness on college campus­tional programs that are cur­RESPOND infirmary." Klau. es. rently taking place. Other students recognized In light of the specialized edu­
At Notre Dame, several stu­TO AIDS that measures are being taken cation programs other schools By JOHN LUCAS dents have expressed concern I by the university to increase offer, student opinion ranges Associate News Editor over a lack of university spon­time for some awareness," education and blamed those from the completely unin­
sored programs. agreed Lyons junior Lorrei who have not participated in formed to those excited about 
Although college students are "There's not a whole lot of Horenkamp. "People are very lecture programs ·and open fo­the AIDS awareness programs among those at highest risk for AIDS awareness on campus," naive." rums. offered at their campus. exposure to the HIV virus, opin­said Morrissey junior Kelly To other students, the univer­"Students don't go to meet­At Boston College, where pro­ions vary at campuses across Romer. "The system probably sity is not considered as a cred­ings because of apathy," Romer grams range from brochure 
needs improvement. I think ible source for AIDS education said. "Maybe we need more distribution to the promotion of that the university needs to be material. Current literature speeches and lectures." a lecture programs, senior Gina 
• see POLL, page 5 

realistic and face the fact that and periodicals were cited as a In addition, Romer suggested Laporta said that the university 
even Catholics have sex." main source for students inter­that the lectures and meetings is making an effort to educate the country on how institutions "Regardless of whether we ested in educating themselves. be better publicized. To ensure students, but more always can can best educate students have had a student with AIDS, "You have to look to outside attendance, the meetings could be done. 
about the disease. (at the university) the problem sources like current literature," be made mandatory like other said Flanner sophomore Kevin
While some students feel has become so big, its definitely programs for drug and alcohol see AIDS I page 5 

r-----------------­
-

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February 4, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Expanding those e-tnail horizons 
Is it some kind of sign that I am spending too much time on the University computing sys­tems when I start to exchange e-mail with my roommate? 
E-MAIL--the phrase itself alludes to some sort of mystery. The fascina­


Corrine Doran 
tion with this wonder of 

modern technology, News Copy Editor though, is not limited to myself. I regularly share -----------­messages with friends on campus-even those I see everyday. We discuss bits of gossip and learn to amuse each other by competing for new and different kinds of keyboard smiley faces. OK, so maybe it's not the most valuable use of my time, but important skills such as the 
versatile and standard smile : ) or the more seductive wink ; ) may prove to be valuable in my search for employment. After all, what is a government and French major supposed to do? 
My friends use e-mail as a source of education and amusement. The idea of sending a comput­er generated picture of an unclothed woman fascinates and enthralls them. What would you do without your very own copy of the "how to" list of things to annoy your roommate or the 14 page "Brady Bunch in a natural state" story? Yes, maybe this reflects more on my choice o 
friends than it does the system itself, but that's a different story for another day. 
Yet, to my benefit, the scope of my electronic mail experiences does not end at the edges o the clusters around campus. Because many o my friends go to universities all over the coun­try that have e-mail systems, I am able to com­municate with them daily. The system has helped to lower my phone bills, has removed the lack-of-letter-writing guilt, and has kept me in contact with many friends from high school I probably would have forgotten by now. I am not ambitious enough to send letters from coast to coast nor rich enough to span that same area with the sound of my voice sent through CTI's ftber optics. 
How an hour can tick away in just a few moments while I sit typing away in the DeBartolo, LaFortune, or Hesburgh labs. 
The only drawback to the system surrounds its access. Unless a student has a modem for a computer in his or her room, the unfortunate soul must trudge to a computer lab strategically placed to be just out of the way. But could the rumors be true? Could the students of Notre Dame be so lucky? Will the University make access available from all rooms without a modem in the future? We students can onlly hope for the comfort and privacy of our own rooms. No longer would I have to get up early so I can head out to the lab; I could write in the comfort of my pajamas at any time of the day or night. No longer would I have someone strain­ing to see what romantic advice I am giving a friend across the country. Forget the Grateful Dead, we want computer hook-ups. 
While I expand my horizons on the electronic mail system, the people I know are hiding their last names from me so I can't access their addresses. After all, that Gopher thing does have a lot of power ... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production Laura Ferguson B ridgette Farrell Dave Tyler Kira Hutchinson Sports Etc. 
George Dohrmann Bevin Kovalik Jon Jensen Graphics Viewpoint Brendan Regan 
Carolyn Wilkens Business Lab Tech Mike Martin 
Eric Ruethling 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 

New wave ofviolence marks new year in Haiti 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti Violence flared again last week 
The bloody bodies of 10 young after a period of relative calm. men were found on the outskirts of Political analysts believe it may be a the capital Thursday, the worst of a warning from the army against pop­new series of killings and disappear­ular demonstrations on Monday ­ances. The 10 were meeting in an the third anniversary of Aristide's abandoned house when they were inauguration. attacked with tear gas and guns Since last Friday, four people have around midnight Wednesday, said a been shot dead in and around the neighbor, Adele Francois. capital. 
Four hours later, Francois' sister In addition, a university student went over to the house to check and was abducted Tuesday and has not found the bodies, six inside the been seen since. The daily Le house and four outside. The motive Nouvelliste said Thursday he may for the slayings was not known. have been mistaken for his journal­
There was a rash of killings after ist brother, who worked for pro­exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide Radio Haiti-Inter. Haiti­Aristide and army chief Lt. Raoul Inter shut down after the army oust­Cedras signed a U.N.-brokered ed Aristide in September 1991. agreement last July providing for Also last Friday, police arrested Aristide's return Oct. 30. The agree­about 16 youths, presumably ment collapsed amid street violence Aristide partisans, the Haitian Press tolerated by the army. Agency reported. 
French fishmarket riots injure 28 IU wants more open Little 500 
PARIS BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Fishermen ransacked a fish market, threw fish around Indiana University wants a competitive Little 500 bicycle supermarkets and blocked roads across France race, but the group that sponsors the annual fund-raiser Thursday to protest seafood imports they say are wants it to be open to as many students who want to destroying their livelihood. At least 26 police officers and ride. Some student riders have threatened to quit their two protesters were injured in the clashes, which came positions on an advisory council if they do not get more the same day that the government pledged $50 million in say in running the event. An IU Student Foundation new aid to the fishing industry. Unions said most of the voted to eliminate a category of competitive riders from money was bound for big business rather than individual the Little 500 in order to encourage more students to try operators, many of whom feel threatened by cheap out. Riders ranked in the United States Cycling imports from Russia, Poland and South America. In the Federation's Category II will not be able to compete worst rampage, about 1,200 protesters ransacked the beginning in 1995. Category I riders already are banned. central fish and produce market south of Paris, smash­"The more this becomes an intramural event, the fewer ing crates and throwing fish on the ground and at police. people will come to see it. If you take the excitement Some fishermen ftred flare guns at police, who respond­away, who's going to watch it?" said Randy Spruill, pres­ed by beating the demonstrators with batons and rifle ident of the Men's Riders Council. But Steve Johnson, butts and hauled several away, some of them bleeding president of the student foundation, said his group is from the head. Fifteen police officers and two protesters looking out for the best interest of the event. "We listen were injured in Paris. Tons of fish were destroyed. to them on every issue. Sometimes they've been happy, sometimes they haven't, but we feel all decisions have been in the best interest of Little 500," he said. Spruill Byrd scolds USNA for North book signing said eliminating the best riders would weaken the race's 
prestige and hurt attendance. WASHINGTON 
Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., rebt~ked the U.S. Naval Academy Thursday for using Virginia Senate hopeful Oliver North as a "role model" at a book­signing last fall. Byrd's remarks at a 


John Williams now music adviser to Pops
hearing on a cheating scandal at the academy were the latest expression of Senate anger directed at the former 
BOSTON
Marine lieutenant colonel who admit­John Williams, the man who succeded legendaryted lying to Congress. North is seeking the Republican conductorArthur Feidler, has agreed to return to thenomination to oppose Sen. Charles Robb, D-Va. "Colonel Boston Pops as music adviser to help plan this year'sNorth was held up as some kind of role model for mid­concerts and find his replacement as music director.

shipmen to emulate," said Byrd, who, as senior 
Williams has written music for more than 70 films andDemocrat, is the Senate's president pro tempore. Byrd won four Academy Awards for such films as Jaws andasked Adm. Thomas Lynch, superintendent of the acade­Star Wars. He ended his 13-year reign at the Boston my in Annapolis, Md., why he allowed North to appear Pops with a Dec. 20 concert. At the time, Williams said on campus last November to sign his book, "One More he wanted to dedicate more of his time to composing. HeMission." "What kind of message does this send to the agreed to make several guest appearances as conductormidshipmen?" Byrd asked Lynch. "We're talking about this spring. Kenneth Haas, managing director of thecheating, and what has happened that may have caused Boston Symphony Orchestra, said Williams agreed to hisit." Lynch said he approved the appearance, "at the request to help plan the coming season, giving the Popsrequest of Mr. North" over the objections of some faculty more time to find his successor. The search for a new

members in hopes the appearance would promote 
conductor continues. 
healthy debate. 
NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 4.
Friday, Feb. 4 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
OHIO 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1994 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 


------------~~~ 
Friday, February 4, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 


Writers express middle class Clinton's spellding plan 
By MELISSA SHELDON 
News Writer 
The Catholic middle class provides an alternative angle of vision into late 19th century Catholic history according to Rev. Paul Robichaud's seminar last night. 
The Catholic Middle class is important to provide a broader vision of Catholic history and to show an "intersting bridge to a larger Victorian culture which was predominantly Protestant," said Robichaud. 
Robichaud found that the best way to discover the workings of the Catholic middle class was by studying the writings of three regional writers of the 1880's; New England's Loise Imogene Guiney an essayist and poet; poet John Bannister Tabb who represented the New Catholic South, and finally from the West, Charles Warren Stoddard. 
These writers wrote to ex­press their images of the Catholic connection with the rest of the Protestant commu­nity and show the development of the American Catholic. 
"A critical element in the de­velopment of national identity was the creation of public memory: from the writing of history to the weaving of sto­bichaud. "The public memory written by these authors was a way of creating tradition and a means by which we can speak of Catholic nationalism". 

This transition from a re­gional Catholic America with regional parishes and local as­sociations brgan to change dur-
Friends don't let friends drive drunk. Don't drink and drive! 




COVER 
TONITE MEMBERS GET FIRST 11MARK GALVIN11 FREE 
would kill 1 00 programs 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton will send Congress a $1.5 trillion budget next week that would restrain spending in 600 federal pro­grams and target more than 100 for outright elimination, the administration said Thurs­day. 
Among programs targeted for extinction: federal support for local schools serving military dependents, uranium en­richment research and pay­ments to law students working in legal-aid clinics. 
The administration will pro­pose sharp spending cuts in Rural Electrification Adminis­tration loan subsidies, Army Corps of Engineers construction projects and a program that helps millions of Americans pay their home-heating bills. 
The administration will also propose cutting 100,000 feder­al jobs with as many as 70,000 of those coming from civilian employees at the Defense Department, a reduction it hopes to achieve mainly through buyouts and attrition. 
White House Budget Director Leon Panetta said Clinton's budget, which will be released Monday, will propose termina­tion of more than 100 federal programs. In addition, he said another 300 programs had been targeted for spending cuts and 300 others would be frozen at current levels, not even al­lowing for normal growth caused by inflation. 
"It's probably one of the toughest budgets an adminis­tration has presented Congress in recent years," Panetta told a congressional committee. "There will be some very tough decisions here." 
Panetta termed the budget a "stay-on-track" program that will allow the administration to meet the commitments made in the $500 billion, five-year deficit reduction program ap­proved by one-vote margins in Congress last year. 
In addition to raising the gasoline tax and boosting in­come tax rates on the wealthy, the deficit reduction program imposed tough spending ceil­ings for non-mandatory gov­ernment programs -essen­tially everything the govern­ment does from paying soldiers to buying paper clips. 
ing this time Catholic associa­tions had not only a regional group, but also a national group. Educational institutions were also developed during this time on a national level rather than local institiuion as with Notre Dame and John Carrol. 

Holy Cross to install card access 
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
News Writer 
In an attempt to organize a compatible security system for all resident halls at Saint Mary's College, Holy Cross Hall is planning to implement a card access system similar to that of LeMans or McCandless Hall. 
According to Holy Cross Resi­dent Director Patty Warfield, Holy Cross is planning to get the card access system in the near future. 
"We don't know when, but we know we are going to get it," said Warfield. "The only ob­stacles are fmancial." 
The north door of Holy Cross near the post office is the tar­geted doorway to install the card access system. 
LeMans and McCandless Halls are currently using this system, which utilizes a com­puterized access card. How­ever, all residents halls still re­quire the presence of a twenty­four hour desk attendant. 
The card access system, when added to Holy Cross will allow students improved access into the building. However, there are mixed emotions about the convenience and security . 
"The card access system is such a hassle, especially when there are people already work­ing at the front desk," said Holy Cross sophomore Michelle Klouth. 
"It is such a pain, because you always have to carry your card with you," said, McCand­less freshman Cara Calcagno. 
Senior Karen Brutton sees the card access system as benefi­cial. 
"I think most students would like to have a consistent secu­rity system and this card access system will ensure 24 hour se­curity," Regina hall has yet to establish the card access sys­tem. 
House weighs funds in quake assistance 
BY DAVID ESPO Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Balancing compassion with concern for the deficit, the House voted $8.6 billion in dis­aster relief for the shattered Los Angeles earthquake zone on Thursday after approving a modest round of offsetting spending cuts elsewhere in the budget. 
The vote was 337-74 to send the disaster relief bill -the largest in the nation's history­to the Senate for anticipated action next week. Congres­sional leaders hope to have the measure on President Clinton's desk by mid-month. 
House passage came after a day of debate centered largely on whether and how much to shelter the deficit from the im­pact of the disaster bill. 
On a nearly unanimous vote that belied a divided House, lawmakers agreed to $2.6 bil­lion in cuts. Two proposals for deeper cuts were defeated, one on a narrow 211-207 vote. 
Opponents said cuts would merely slow passage of badly needed disaster relief. 
"People need a helping hand," said Rep. Richard Durbin. 
ATTENTiON 9--tc <;'r'UDENTS: 
DO YOU Lil<E £0 ~ELP 0£~6QS1 lf\J£6Q6S£6D ii\J VOLUI\J£66QiNG1 
T~£1\1 C.OI\JTACT r~E ~c.Af<V OPPiCE Ar X536g OQ C~ECK r~£ VoLCAkJTGGf< BOAQDS il\1: HAGGA~ LfrtAI\JS 012. r~E ~UQV OPFiC£ 
'-{OUQ riH£ WiLL BE GQEATLV A~Q£CiAr£D! 
• 
~-~~-~--··-~-~--~ ----------~-­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
Mind 
continued from page 1 
tance of this conference is exemplified in the fact that stu­dents and professors are flying hundreds and thousands of miles to Saint Mary's. 
"I've been thinking wouldn't it b~ weird ifI was asked by Pat White to fly hundreds of miles to represent Saint Mary's, it makes me think this (confer­ence) is even more important," Radostitis said. 
With its focus on Catholic women's colleges, the confer­ence will provide discussion on what it means to be Catholic and women, which many view as positions in opposition to one another, as well as, discussion about the future in light of the declining numbers in the reli­gious who sponsor the colleges. 
"It's really exciting that it's focusing on Catholic women's colleges, because there are so few of us that to get to experi­ence a Catholic women's col­lege" said Anne Finn, student leadership chair at College of Saint Benedict in St. Joseph, Minn. "It's important to share and reflect on what it is we have." 
The discussion of feminism and Catholicism is what Saint Mary's Senior Cora Sandburg is most interested in seeing. 
"The discussion on feminism will be fiery, but most interest­ing will be the session on Catholicism that follows " Sandburg said. "It will lead into some tough questions." 
Adding Catholicism, to a women's college can create debate on issues that concern women, but may be opposed to Catholic teaching, according to Finn. 
"A lot of women's issues come up in the Catholic Church that are very controversial," Finn said. "It's important as women to sort out conflicts in that." 
For others, Catholicism and women's colleges are a well made match. 
"At a Catholic women's col­lege you empower women and give them a public voice that is tailored voice with a moral per­spective," Roman said. 
Ursuline Sister Kathleen Flanagan, member of the department of nursing at Ursuline College agrees that a Catholic women's voice is developed at a women's col­lege. 
"The Catholic philosophy adds a different philosopy to 
the feminine, more collabora­tive, less competitive dimension of a women's college," Flanagan said. 
Saint Mary's Senior Lauren Sirgusia added that "At a Catholic women's college you share more than being a woman, your also sharing the same faith and the same values and morals," Sirgusia said. 
The conference discussions on what it means to be a Catholic women's college now and in the future will be affirm­ing, celebratory and intellectu­ally challenging, according to White. 
"The questions we're wor­r~ed about are important ques­tiOns that will keep our minds spinning longer than this week­end, " White said. 
"I have so much confidence in our own students and the stu­dents from the other colleges that all we have to do is bring these women together with their professors, ask them a question and the sparks will just fly," he added. 
The Play of the Mind confer­ence is being sponsored by stu­dent government as part of the sesquicentennial celebration of Saint Mary's. All students and faculty are welcome to all of the discussion sessions on Friday and Saturday. 


Oeloitte& 
Management
Touche 
Consulting 
MBA Recruiting Presentation 
Representatives from Deloitte & Touche's Detroit ~anagement Consulting Office will be on campus to ?Iscuss career opportunities in consulting. All mterested students are encouraged to attend. 
Who: First & Second Year MBA's 
When: Monday -February 7th @ 7~00 PM 
Where: Morris Inn-N_Q Room 
Interviews are scheduled for: Tuesday, Feb. 23rd 
Friday, February 4, 1994 

Study: AIDS virus raises hemophilia death rate 
By MALCOLM RITTER donated factor VIII. Associated Press But the median lag time be­
NEW YORK 
The death rate for people with the most common kind of hemophilia has tripled since 1979 and their longevity has dropped by 30 percent, due chiefly to AIDS virus infection a federal study says. ' 
The median age at death for people with hemophilia A fell from 57 years in 1979-81 to 40 years in 1987-89, researchers said. 
Death rates jumped from 0.4 per million Americans in 1979 to 1.3 per million in 1989, said the report from researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. 
Preliminary data suggests similar numbers for 1991, said study co-author Dr. Terence Chorba of the CDC. 
"HIV appears to be the major contributor to those changes," he said. 
Fifty-five percent of people with hemophilia A who died in 1987-89 had AIDS or HIV in­fection listed as a cause of death, the study found. 
About 17,000 Americans have hemophilia A. caused by deficiency in a natural clotting substance called factor VIII, the National Hemophilia Foundation says. Many people with hemophilia A became infected with HIV through infu­sions of factor VIII derived from blood donors. 
More than half of all people with hemophilia were infected with HIV by 1985, including more than 80 percent of peo­ple with severe hemophilia A, the foundation says. The risk has been virtually eliminated since then by donor screening and virus-killing treatment of tween HIV infection and AIDS may be as high as 11 years, so the trends found in the new re­port may persist. 
"I think this effect is going to continue for the rest of this decade" unless better ways are found to treat HIV infec­tion, said study co-author Dr. Bruce Evatt. A little over 4,000 people with hemophilia A are currently known to be infected, he said. 
The new study appears in the February issue of the American Journal of Hematology. 
In a statement, the hemo­philia foundation said the results "demonstrate the dra­matic impact AIDS has had on the hemophilia community, but they do not begin to identify the immeasurable toll the dis­ease exacts in terms of human suffering, shattered families and the lost promise of those who have died." 
The CDC scientists searched federal records for 1968 through 1989 to find deaths in which hemophilia A was listed as a cause, including those that also listed HIV infection or a related disease. They found 2,792 deaths associated with hemophilia A during that pe­riod. 
Death rates began a relative­ly consistent climb in 1981. Median age at death, after jumping to a peak of 64 in 1983, plunged thereafter. Chorba said the most recent median ages resemble those of more than 20 years ago, before modern treatment was available. 
"Sadly, we've taken a giant step backwards," he said. 

French Film Festival February 6-10 
Sunday 

"A DELIGHT! 
A warm-hearted tale-fun 1n any language." 
-t..eanard M:al't.ln, 
EHTERTAIHHEHT TONIGHT 
"**** 
WILDLY FUNNY. 
Excellent comic performances­
ftawleuly staged and timed. One of mo•>ie history's cutest 
babie~." 
-William Arnokt, 
SEA~ I'QST'·IHTEW<iENCEft 
"D~M''f 11155 IT!" 
_....w..... X:I::.Soll. 
WOf:t(N•J W~.,_ DAILT 
3:00 

All shows at Cushing~ 
Reception to follow]i'JJ::f 
------~~~---~-~-~-­
-------------------~-----~ ~ 

Friday, February 4, 1994 

AIDS 
continued from page 1 
"In a situation like this, I don't think you can ever have enough education," she said. "At this point, our campus isn't completely innundated with material." 
Although students may be re­ceiving most of their informa­tion from university sponsored educational brochures and posters, meetings and lectures do not always attract student interest, according to sopho­more Nathan Munger. 
"It's a low key thing," he said. "I know a lot of my friends don't feel like they have a big problem with AIDS education. Usually, I'll talk with my friends or roommates, but I don't go to the lectures." 
"Personally, I think I know enough," agreed Laporta. "I think it's the responsibility of each individual person to make sure have educated them­selves." 
In order to encourage in­creased student participation in AIDS programs, campus media, and particularly the student newspaper, play pivotal roles in making the Boston College pro­gram successful, according to Dr. Arnold Mazur, Boston Col­lege's director of health ser­vices. 
"We've received a good deal of publicity for our programs," he said. "Articles in our cam­pus newspaper are the single most effective way to promote AIDS education and inspire stu­dent participation." 
While Munger and Laporta both seemed to have an idea about the different programs offered by their university, other students knew less about AIDS awareness. 
"To be completely honest, I wasn't aware that there is any­thing official that Boston College is doing," said senior Mary Garnett. 
Making students aware that there is an official university response must be one of the main goals of any kiiid of edu-
The Observer • AIDS NEWS 
cation, according to David 
Golden, director of health edu­
cation and marketing at the 
University of Minnesota in 
Minneapolis. 
"Obviously it's going to be dif­
ferent at Catholic universities 
as far as what they can and 
can't do," Golden said, "But by 
keeping programs going 
throughout the year, as well as 
distributing condoms, we're 
trying to get students informed. 
Condom week is coming up 
right around Valentine's Day." 
Condom distribution and edu­
cation makes the AIDS educa­
tion and prevention marketing 
programs at the University of 
Minnesota especially effective, 
according to several students. 
"The availability of condoms 
is a big part of the program," 
according to junior Brad Nel­
son. "You can pretty much get 
them anywhere." 
The urban setting of the Uni­
versity in Minnesota in Min­
neapolis may have something to 
do with the success of the pro­
gram there, according to junior 
John McCardy. 
A University should primarily pro­vide literature to students, like by hav­ing information pamphlets availible. 
t Notre Dame, the University is scared and avoiding the issue. They< need to foster openness on campus." 
Kieran Mulryan 
Sophomore, Grace Hall Manhasset, New York 
Notre Dame pro­vide more seminars and lectures to educate students here. The Quilt pro­
ect is a great idea, but we should maybe also invite more speakers who have the disease." 
Rocio Lopez 
Junior, Pasquerilla West Hall Chicago 
need to educate about awareness through seminars, lectures and cours-' es to let people know that AIDS could be on this campus regardless that it is a Catholic school. We need to make · people more comfortable with the issue." 
Esohe ldusogie 
Graduate Student Nigeria 
"A has a to educate its students as well as the 
ity. It should reach out to society as well, like by forming groups to go to area high schools and grade schools. People with personal experience with the disease should also be a part of this." 
Kira Lodge 
Lyons Hall Montana 

"We need to make information ble to students so that they are able . to make informed decisions. AIDS is swept under the rug here and greater attention needs to be given to it, espe­cially since 18-22 year olds are those most prone to AIDS in terms of their sexual activity." 
Tom Sullivan 
Sophomore, Morrissey Manor New York City 
18! 
Valentine Specials 8.• + up 
Maternowski's 272-0910 103 Dixie way/Us 31-1/2 mi. Nof Campus 

-cancunMexico ~,om$439 Negril Jamaica ~,om$449 MontegoBayJamaica rrom$419 
Daytona Beach, FL rrom$149 rrom$129
PanamacityBeach,FL 
Indian Ridge Plaza Next to Venture 
Call for 
Grape Rd.. Mishawaka 
a Local
277-7946 
Representative
expires 2-28-94 

~ 

120 NGfih Aurvra St.,lthoc:a, NY 1<4150 
ll§CD) International Festival Saturday, February 5th 8:00p.m. Washington Hall Admission: Students $3.00 General Admission $5.00 Tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk, at the door, and in ISO affairs office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Enjoy an evening with us. An evening full ofdances, songs and acts from all over the globe.  
Career Opportunities For Computer Programmers CSC Intelicom TRIS Division, located in Champaign, Illinois (home of the University of Illinois), provides software and billing solutions for the fast growing wireless communications industry. We are a subsidiary of Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC), a $2.5 billion multi-national corporation and leader in the field of systems integration. Due to the tremendous growth of the cellular industry in 1993, we expect our organization to grow by 50% over the next 18 months. We need to hire several bright, energetic individuals with superlative programming skills for our Software Development group, so we will be interviewing for UNIX C and mainframe COBOL software engineers. CSC Intelicom offers a excellent compensation and benefits package which includes medical, dental, life, disability, 40 I K and profit sharing. We will be on campus recruiting Computer Science and MIS majors on Tuesday, February 22. If you are ~~~~_,~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil interested in helping to create part of the future of the wireless industry, sign up on February 7 or 8 in the Career and Placement Services Office.  


The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 4, 1994 

The Obse!Ver/Colleen Moore 
Time to Hit the Ice! 

Lewis Hall freshmen Katie Hazard, Aisha Sexton,and Anne Sieben get their skates on for Physical Education ice skating class at the Joyce Ace. 
Clinton urges to speed up cleanups 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration, saying a fourth of all Americans live within a few miles of toxic waste dumps, urged an over­haul Thursday of the troubled Superfund program including easing cleanup requirements at many sites. 
The aim is to speed up the glacier-like pace in which only a handful of highly contami­nated sites has been restored over the past 14 years, despite the expenditure of nearly $9 billion by the government and billions more by private indus­try. 
EPA Administrator Carol Browner, who outlined the administration plan at a news 
Correction· 
~.~·~.§JIS!~l21
·. ' f·;.~~;-~ll,!,~~ ­
I~. a story m Wedne~day s '@i.~~~.!~-· ~~ i:\ ~ i\~ Chinese-American l!;{~,.),I:F.~
: . 

ed1t1on, The Observer mcor-~;~~~~ ~ .. . ,,~~ t=rJ j ~~~~~;t~~:nge ~ ;;::;,~; rectly reported part of the plat-ffi\:~ ) ' A_,;,ent•c Szechu,ln. i[>,WJ form of Erin King and Deitz f:!r~; .~ ~ U l\' .. rvta,cJar•n & Hunan Cu•s•ne ~1:>1 Lefort. While the ticket does ~"' ·r 'I'K N ..... ~ 
I 
support the incorporation of a · $ prejudice reduction workshop SPECIAL CHINESE 8 95 r•,,idren into Freshman Orientation, the NEW YEAR BUFFE·r '.ilder 10 nr
0 • 0 

program would be voluntary. ~(~ . February 9 & 10 ,,alf :Jnce ~-:;, The Observer regrets the ~,Z:\ ALL YOU CAN EAT 5-9 p.m. ~;J;I 
error. ~~\f7.">. Includes Soup. Appet1zer, 8 Entrees 3nd Dessert (Other menu 1tems also a•·a,raore• ~~i:~ ~·'•$,) 130 Dixie Way S., South B~nd (next to Rdndall s lnnl 272}p61f.l,r,,:_~!:~ ~~ J ~· ;ii>><>J
L_____________, ~ """' = 

Senior Fortna! N e·ws 
Tickets go on sale Monday & Tuesday (Feb. 7 & 8) in 
Theodore's in LaFortune from 6:00-9:00 p.m. Also on sale Thursday, Feb. 10, in LeMans Hall at SMC from 6:00-9:00 p.m. 
*Don't forget your bid forms* 
conference, said it was essen­tial to get more sites cleaned up and faster, and that "funds go to cleanup, not lawyers." 
Key parts of the blueprint would: 
-Revise standards that de­termine "how clean is clean" with less stringent require­ments at sites that would be used for industrial purposes. The current tougher standards still would apply to areas that would be used for homes, schools or recreation. 
-Require insurance compa­nies to pay $SOO million to $700 million a year into a revolving fund for cleaning up projects that have been the subject of competing insurance claims. The move is designed to reduce lawsuits and quicken cleanup. 
-Allow parties to allocate cleanup responsibilities among themselves through a special neutral mediator. Parties who accept such mediation would be protected from future lawsuits, and known parties unable to pay would have their share paid out of a $300 million fed­eral fund. 
-Exempt from cleanup re­sponsibilities those who con­tributed only a small amount of pollution. For the first time, future developers of a cleaned site would be exempted as an incentive for developing the site, rather than using a pris­tine area elsewhere. 
-Local communities would be assured involvement in site cleanup decisions and states would be allowed to take over projects. 
.F~L~.i::;.<J;f::~" ·· ··.• _;
···~~t~_!k;i-~.·: ··~:.';~ 
Workers to be tested for alcohol 
BY KIM MILLS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Pilots, truckers, bus drivers, train engineers and others in sensitive transportation jobs will be subject to random alcohol and drug tests under rules announced Thursday. 
"We will do everything we can to ensure that when your child boards a school bus, the driver has not been drinking," Transportation Secretary Fed­erico Pena said at a news con­ference. 
"We are working to ensure that when you board the sub­way or a plane, a train or a bus, those responsible for your safety will have strong incentives to be sober and fit for duty." 
Pena outlined new, compre­hensive regulations instituting alcohol testing and expanding drug testing in the transporta­tion industries. 
"Taken together, these new rules will cover 7.4 million people -up from 3.6 million covered today by drug testing rules," Pena said. 
Under the new rules, testing is required to start Jan. 1, 199S, for large employers and Jan. 1, 1996, for employers with SO or fewer safety-sensi­tive workers. 

The new rules apply to workers responsible for the public safety, such as pilots, bus drivers, air traffic con­trollers, train signal crews, mechanics, truck drivers and subway crews. 
The bulk of employees af­fected by the new rules -6.6 million -are holders of com­mercial drivers' licenses. 
Workers would be subject to alcohol and drug testing un­der five different conditions: before being hired or moved into a safety-sensitive job; at random intervals; after an ac­cident; if the employer has reason to believe a worker has been drinking or using drugs, perhaps because of behavior or body odor; and af­ter completing a drug or alco­hol rehabilitation program. 
Pena also proposed easing current drug testing proce­dures, which call for a SO per­cent rate of random testing for safety-sensitive employees. That rate could be lowered to 2S percent if the industry can show fewer than 1 percent of workers tested positive for illegal drugs for two consecu-
C~O?ST~CI<S 
CHINESE FAST FOOD 
We Deliver to Your Dorm! 
Mon-Thurs 11 a.m. -9 p.m. 
Fri-Sat 11 a.m.-10 p.m, 
East Location:
$6 minimum 
525 N, Eddy St.

$1 service charge for 
South Bend, IN

orders under $15 
232-1177 Special • CHOPSTiCKS • Special 
·l 10°/oOff Total Purchase 
L-------------------------------------------------~ 
....DYNAMITE! 
A lull-throttle blast of action and fireworks. a savagely Iunny thrill ride. Slater and Arquette make a wildly comic and sexy pair." ,.,.,,,.,,, .o,u•osro" 
christian slater patricia arquette 
lrqaeHe and Slater 
are dynamite~ -s ..... Wloua'fU<I. USA TODAY 
"I'UXHY AND VIBRANT." 
-)...t MuliD. THE NEW YORI TIMES 
"VIVID AXD SEDUCTIVE." 
-lllclwd Corllu. TIME MAGAZIKE 
"THRILLS AXD COMEDY 

shaken up into one provocative cocktail." 
-Tom GU.no. PEOPLE MAGAZIKE 

dennis hopper val kilmer gary oldman brad pitt christopher walken 
!lllliHiml~mti!WW!ImtliiiD~III ~m!W~ MII\UIII!IIR' IllIlliG. WUI Uf!UW IWm! llftllli9 rnWllllla•lll•llmDif~ llllniiH~IIIaiiDWIImiiiiMiffiWW 11011 RIIIIJflllllllilur ••dMf!~~~lllh W!WMIIlln UOOIIWII • nllllM~ I Mlllillml
I!'_____ !RI~:;:;..!~I. uniU!~~ -~--,,~ 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 AND 9:45 
CALL 631-1761 FOR TIMES AND DATES FOR ALL CINEMA AT THE SNITE FILMS. 
tive years. 
Random alcohol testing would begin at a rate of 2S percent, Pena said. But if an industry shows a positive test rate of 1 percent or higher for any given year, it would have to double its testing rate to SO percent, he said. 
Conversely, any industry with positive alcohol test rates of less than O.OS percent for two consecutive years could reduce its testing rate for em­ployees to 10 percent. 
"Those employees and in­dustries who take drug and alcohol abuse seriously and act to eliminate it will be re­warded," Pena said. "Those who fail to do so will be re­quired to step up their ef­forts." 
The new regulations were mandated by Congress in the 1991 Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act. After years of failing to get such legislation through both hous­es, Congress passed the mandatory testing bill in response to a 1991 New York City subway accident in which five people were killed. The motorman, who fled after the crash, later tested legally intoxicated. 


--~--------~------------~-----~-~­
Friday, February 4, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Launch with cosmonaut Reagan returns to Washington 
opens new space age 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
Discovery rose with the sun and launched a new space age Thursday. carrying the first Russian into orbit aboard a U.S. shuttle. 
The head of Russia's space program praised the prompt, and perfect, liftoff, considered a prelude to a shared space sta­tion and maybe, some day, a joint trip to Mars. 
NASA's chief was so excited he got goose bumps. 
"We're going to change the whole way we look at space. We're going to do it together, instead of competing," said NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin. 
Discovery blasted off at dawn, piercing a clear sky on its way to a 218-mile orbit. The rising sun gave the huge clouds of vapor left in the shuttle wake a pale orange glow. 
Joining the five Americans on board for the eight-day science mission was cosmonaut Sergei Krikalev, who wore a Russian 

LARGE PIZZA 

PLUS TAX 
STORE HOURS 

SUN-TH 4:30-1 am 
FRI-SAT 4:30-2am 
CHEESE PIZZA TOPPINGS $1 EACH­VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY EXPIRES 5-13-94 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE 
PRODUCT SERVICE GUARANTEE: 
IF FOR ANY REASON YOU ARE UNSATISFIED WITH OUR PRODUCT OR SERVICE, PLEASE CONTACT THE STORff MANAGER IMMEDIATELY ­AND WE'LL FIX IT. 
flag patch on the shoulder of his orange flight suit. 
It's the first U.S.-Russian manned mission since the 1975 Apollo-Soyuz docking and the first time ever that astronauts and cosmonauts have been launched in the same space­ship. 
In a statement from Moscow, Russian President Boris Yeltsin called the launch "a vivid manifestation of ever-growing cooperation and partnership between our countries and peo­ples." 
"We are beginning to un­derstand that we need to com­bine efforts to solve the compli­cated problems both on Earth and in space, for the benefit of our peoples and the entire world," Yeltsin said. 
The Russians were treated to a rare, trouble-free liftoff; even the weather was perfect. 
"It is remarkable that this launch has been on schedule, and everything is well, going all right," Russian space director Yuri Koptev told the shuttle launch team in Russian. 
® 

By MIKE FEINSILBER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Making a rare return to Washington to refly the flag of the Reagan Revolution, Ronald Reagan accused President Clinton and the Democrats of stealing his ideas while trying to discredit his record. 
The very,; sight of Capitol,'' "bulging with new tax rev­enues," made him instinc­tively reach for his veto pen, he said in a nostalgic speech to a huge audience of Reagan loyalists, 
What brought the former president back Thursday night was a $1,000-a-plate Republican Party dinner ­attended by 2,300 and expected to raise $5 million -and a chance to observe "the 44th anniversary of my 39th birth­day." 
On Sunday, five years out of 
Ronald Reagan 

D0 MIN0 S pIZZA 
271-0300 
office, he turns 83. 
Celebrating with him were ideological soulmate Margaret Thatcher, the "iron lady" who is former prime minister of Britain, and wife Nancy Reagan, his lady in red, about whom he wrote last March, on their 40th anniversary, "I miss her if she even steps out of the room." 
Reagan used his speech to protect his legacy. These days in Washington, his deficits are cited more often than his fights against the growth of commu­nism abroad and the govern­ment at home. 
Reagan remembered the glory days. 
"Who can forget those so­called 'experts' who said our military build-up threatened a dangerous escalation of ten­sions?" he asked. "What kind of fool, they asked, would call the Soviet Union an 'Evil Em­pire'?" 
"But as events have shown, there was nothing foolish in my prediction that communism was destined for the ash heap of history." 
Watching Clinton's State of· the Union address last week, he said, he thought about the cor­relation between imitation and flattery. "Only in this case, it's not flattery. but grand larceny -the intellectual theft of ideas that you and I recognize as our own." 
But he said the Democrats were ignoring the lessons of history -"how swiftly storm clouds can gather on a peaceful horizon." 
"The next time a Saddam 
Hussein takes over Kuwait, or 
North Korea brandishes a 
nuclear weapon, will we be 
ready to respond? In the end, it 
all comes down to leadership." 
He used his trademark humor 
to bemoan the changes since 
Clinton took over. 
Flying over the capital, he said, "I could just see the excitement on the faces of the bureaucrats -knowing they would soon be .managing our national health care system! Up on Capitol Hill, I saw that big white dome, bulging with new tax revenues." 
And, in a jab at a turncoat ally, David Gergen, who once advised him and now advises Clinton, Reagan said he looked ·down from his plane to familiar sights. "The South Lawn, the 
Rose Garden ... David Gergen!" 
The party was held in one of 
Washington's grand places, the 
Pension Building, built a centu­
ry ago of 15 million bricks, 
where 1,500 clerks disbursed 
benefits for those wounded, 
maimed, widowed and or­
phaned in the Civil War. It now 
houses a museum. 
ERASMUS BOOkS 

• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25.CXXJ Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to u Tund•y through Sundey 1027 E. W•yne South Bend, IN 48817 
121 B) 232-8444 

""~ SFIPI6 8191 ..,
SPRING 
EElK
COMPLETE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS 

SOUTH PAORE ISLANO DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH STEAMBOAT 
'!-GHifW 

VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANG ISLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
'I'ERPfllSOIIDfPfiiOiftGl*OESlliiATIOII{IIIf.UOAits/LliiGTHOF511f 
FOR AIIDITJONAL llfORMATION & RESBIVMIONS 
11 •BOO•SUNCHASEI 

~---~ 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 4, 1994 
Farn1ers face decision on horn1one Children prescribe to lock 
By SUSAN ALLEN Associared Press 
Dairy farmers across the nation, worried that the wrong decision will cost them dearly and destroy their reputation with consumers, are debating whether to use an artificial hor­mone to boost milk production. With the hormone becoming available Friday, others took it a step further. 
Opponents in Wisconsin ­including some dairy farmers -went to federal court to halt production of the hormone. Legislatures in Wisconsin and Vermont, two of the largest dairy producers, are consider­ing proposals that would allow the public to find out which producers are using the hor­mone. New York state's con­sumer protection chief wants all hormone-boosted milk sold in his state labeled. 
"Farm products are nothing without consumer confidence," said Vermont state Rep. Robert Starr, chairman of the House Agriculture Committee. "If the consumer has the perception you're doing something wrong, you're not going to sell that product.' 
On Thursday, farmers and consumer advocates dumped milk at rallies in New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Minneapolis and Washington and several other cities to call attention to the hormone debate. 
Carrying signs that read "Cows just can't say no," about two dozen people gathered at the New York protest. 
"This is not a food scare," said protester Kris Ebbert. "This is a consumer right-to­know issue." 
The hormone is naturally produced by cows. Monsanto Co. has developed a chemical equivalent that boosts milk pro­duction by more than 10 per­cent. 
The Food and Drug Ad­ministration approved the use of bovine somatotropin, or BST -also known as bovine growth hormone, or BGH -on Nov. 5, ending nine years of govern­ment scrutiny. 
The FDA concluded that the drug is safe for humans and animals, despite an increase in udder infections common among lactating cows. But Congress imposed a moratori­um on the hormone's sale, a moratorium that ended Thursday. Monsanto intends to begin selling it Friday. 
Other companies aren't wait­ing for ~egislative or court action. 
The premium ice cream maker, Ben & Jerry's, plans to label its ice cream and frozen yogurt "hormone free" before shipping the cartons to stores nationwide. 
"We feel a need to advance the notion that BGH is a bad thing for farmers, for dairy ani­mals and therefore in a very real way for consumers," com­pany spokesman Alan Parker said. 
Opponents fall into two camps: those who believe its use will cause consumers to stop drinking milk because of doubts about its purity and those who fear the hormone will so increase production that the price will fall. 
Donald Uelmen, general man­ager of Farmers Union Milk Marketing Co-op, the nation's largest dairy co-operative with more than 10,000 members in Wisconsin, Iowa, Illinois and Minnesota, predicted it would hurt sales and force milk prices down. 
"Monsanto has gained, but it sure as hell isn't going to be farmers that gain out of this thing," Uelmen added. "A five­letter word describes it ­greed.'' 
Henry Borchardt, who helped set up his son and grandson in the dairy farming business near Edgar, Wis., said his family is dead set against injecting their cows with the new synthetic hormone. 
Executions possibly covered up 
By lAWRENCE KOOT­NIKOFF Associared Press 
SAN CRISTOBAL DE LA 
CASAS, Mexico 

The government human rights commission may be help­ing to cover up a shoddy inves­tigation into the apparent exe­cutions of five rebels by sol­diers, a U.S. activist charged Thursday. 
The five were killed in the town of Ocosingo at the be­ginning of an Indian-peasant uprising that began Jan. 1 in southern Mexico. 
Dr. Thomas Crane of the Boston-based Physicians for Human Rights said he met Wednesday with rights commis­sion president Jorge Madrazo, who agreed the initial investi­gation may have been flawed. 
He said Madrazo admitted the autopsy process was flawed, and that the attorney general's office -reversing its earlier stance -now says the five appear to have been shot by army soldiers. 
The rights commission appears to be helping the attor­ney general's office and the army cover up the "major blun­der," said Crane, adding that the five bodies may not even have been among the 30 from Ocosingo on which the Mexican attorney general's office did autopsies. 
The attorney general's office did not respond to requests for comment. Madrazo was visiting some of the towns affected by the conflict and was not imme­diately available for comment. 
The men were killed in the 
Ocosingo market place when 
Mexican soldiers retook the 
town Jan. 3. Rt;lporters who 
entered Ocosingo the next day 
saw their bodies lying in a row. 

All appeared to have been shot 
in the head and to have had ·their hands tied at some point. They wore the uniforms of 
the rebel Zapatista National Liberation Army, which launched the uprising to protest poverty and oppression in the impoverished southern state of Chiapas. 
The attorney general's office seemed to exonerate the army Jan. 7, saying autopsies showed the men had died at different times and been shot with non­military issue weapons. 
But after examining the autopsy reports and pho­tographs, Dr. Clyde Snow, a noted forensic pathologist who came here with the Physicians for Human Rights, concluded the five had been executed, probably by Mexican soldiers. 
Salinas ordered the gov­ernment Human Rights Commission to investigate claims of abuses in Chiapas. 
The commission invited Physicians for Human Rights and others to help with the investigations to give them added credibility. 
t 

A New Series for FACULTY, Professional Staff & Graduate Students 
TIMELY TOPICS 

An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
11 HEALTH CARE REFORM: Morals or Management?11 
A Conversation with David Solomon and 
Richard McCormick, S.J. 
Philosophy 
Spon1ored by: 

Thursday, February 10 7:30p.m. at The Center for Social Concerns 
The Deparlment The Center for of'Ibeology 
Social Concern• 

--Light Refreshments will folklw-­
Theology 
ThcOffic•of Cumpus Ministry 

young killers away for good 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK Associared Press 
WASHINGTON 
Children suffering from the violence around them offered a harsh prescription Thursday for kids who kill: Lock them away forever. 
"If a kid picks up a gun, pulls the trigger and shoots some­body, then he should be held accountable for going to jail and serving a life sentence," Jane a Wells, 15, told a con­gressional hearing on children and guns. 
The ninth-grader from Wash­ington cried while recalling the death of a friend shot 17 times "right beside me." She said that since a killer "took some­body else's life, I feel his life should be taken in jail.'' 
Fernando Mateo, Jr., of Irv­ington, N.Y., who gave his fa­ther the idea to offer a success­ful toys-for-guns exchange in New York in December, was equally strict. 
"If a child knows what he's doing and can distinguish right from wrong, he should be put away for life," said Mateo, 14, adding that such punishment should be imposed on killers as young as 11 years old. 
Eleven white, black and His­panic youths testified before the House Judiciary Committee's crime subcommit­tee, explaining the fascination with guns and the toll the weapons have taken on their young lives. 
"The kids who use guns think it will make people look up to them," said 14-year-old Alicia Brown, a junior high school student in Washington, who has lost five friends to gunfire since she was 12. 
Lamented panel Chairman Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., "We can't bring back the loved ones you've lost. We can't bring back your lost childhoods." 
Elsewhere, President Clinton told students at a Washington junior high school that they should organize their neigh­borhoods and classrooms against crime and suspicious activity and said, "No one should have to go to school afraid." 
The Senate, meanwhile, ad­dressed school violence Thurs­day by approving an amend­ment to an education bill that would authorize $175 million in grants to school districts most troubled by high rates of crime and violence. Of the total, $75 million would be for the cur­rent year, with $20 million already appropriated, and $100 million would be for fiscal 1995. 
Many of the children testify­ing before the House panel urged the lawmakers to sup­port more after-school pro­grams like Boys and Girls Clubs to keep young people off the streets and occupied with posi­tive aims. 
They told of victimized friends, relatives and neigh­bors. or bullets flying so hap­hazardly that they are afraid to go out of their homes. Of minor disputes, even a misinterpreted glance, leading to gunfire. 


YOU CAN SEND YOUR 
"SPECIAL SOMEONE" 


A VALENTINE MESSAGE ON VALENTINES DAY FOR $20.00 
The ad would be this size and must be submitted I:Jy 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 10 to the advertising department for The Observer (Jrdjloor LaFortune) 

For further information, cal/631 



Community 
presents 
Fr. Tom McDermott, CSC 
"To eat the body of Christ, You must be the body of Christ. " 
Sunday, February 6 1:30-3:30 Knott Hall Chapel 
Friday, February 4, 1994 
U.S. gives warnings about travel in southern Egypt 
By MARIAM SAMI 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 

The U.S. Embassy urged Americans on Thursday to be cautious while traveling in southern Egypt after Islamic militants warned foreigners to leave the country. 
Egypt's top law enforcement official dismissed the warning by the leading Islamic radical group fighting the government as a statement from criminals unworthy of public attention. 
The rising tensions come as the government steps up its ef­forts to quell the militant upris­ing. despite criticism of human rights abuses. On Wednesday, the government issued an order for security forces to shoot first when rounding up radical sus­pects rather than waiting for militant fire. 
In its statement, the U.S. Em­bassy said its warning to Americans was "strictly pre­cautionary." 
It noted the warning Wednesday by al-Gamaa al-Is­lamiya, or the Islamic Group, but also said it had no informa­tion about specific threats to 
U.S. citizens. 
The embassy repeated a Jan­uary warning for travelers to avoid bus routes through the provinces of Assiut, Minya and Qena, all radical hotbeds in southern Egypt. But it noted that extremist violence was "possible anywhere in the country." 
The militant warning, the strongest to date by al-Gamaa, comes after its two-year cam­paign to replace the secular government with strict Islamic rule has crippled Egyptian tourism, once the chief earner of foreign currency. 
The tourism that once provid­ed $3 billion yearly in revenues has been halved by the vio­lence, which has killed three foreign tourists and nearly 300 others. 
This has worsened unemploy­ment and made the govern­ment hesitate in its campaign to privatize the economy. 
However, foreigners haven't been systematically targeted as they are in Algeria, where Islamic radicals are battling an army-backed regime. 
In a statement faxed to a Western news agency Wednesday, al-Gamaa vowed to launch new attacks on the gov­ernment to avenge the killing of seven extremist suspects a day earlier. It also issued its warn­ing to foreigners. 
"We call upon tourists and foreign investors to leave the country because the coming operations, God willing, will be extremely violent," the state­ment said. 
Speaking to reporters Thursday, Interior Minister Hassan el-Alfy dismissed the warning. He said the govern­ment wouldn't allow "criminals to address the Egyptian pub­
lic." 
"The ministry absolutely refuses the so-called statement from the terrorist groups because terrorism has no voice, no aim and no thought," el-Alfy said. 
He repeated his announce­ment Wednesday that security forces during raids would fire first on militants rather than wait to shoot in self-defense. 
"Any policeman hesitating to use his weapon against a ter­rorist will be reprimanded," he said. 
El-Alfy added, however, that any militant giving himself up would be treated fairly by police and the Egyptian courts. 
The Observer • NEWS page9 
lhe Observer/Colleen Moore 

Here, let me give you a hand 
Off Campus senior Matt Martino tutors St. Joseph's High School senior Torrence Roberts-Clark in Algebra through the Upward Bound tutoring program. About 30 Domers tutor in the program, which meets in O'Shaugnessy Hall every Tuesday through Thursday. 

British direct fire at Sinn Fein 
BY SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Relations between Britain and the United States have un­deniably soured because of Gerry Adams' headline-grab­bing visit to New York, but the British are aiming most of their fire at the Sinn Fein leader rather than Washington. 
Moving Thursday to seize back the public-relations spot­light, Britain likened Adams, head of the IRA's main political allies, to Hitler's chief propa­gandist. It also suggested it would push ahead with reforms in Northern Ireland -with or without Sinn Fein. 
Sir Patrick Mayhew, Britain's top official in the provillce, said he would introduce within two weeks an outline plan aimed at bringing peace to Northern Ireland. 
"Progress in Northern Ireland cannot and will not wait for Sinn Fein," Prime Minister John Major told Parliament. 
In New York this week, Adams portrayed himself as Northern Ireland's chief peace­maker. But he refused to say whether he would persuade the IRA to lay down its arms -the key to earning his party a seat at the negotiating table. 
In a Dec. 15 declaration, the British and Irish governments offered to allow Sinn Fein into peace talks if the Irish Republi­can Army ended its 23-year campaign against British rule in Northern Ireland. 
The British worked hard be­hind the scenes to prevent Adams' U.S. trip, but they want to keep private their anger with President Clinton and those 
U.S. politicians who success-. fully argued for his special 48­hour visa. 
Adams had been denied a 
visa eight times because Sinn Fein, though a legal party, is linked to the IRA and its violent campaign against British rule. 
The U.S. ambassador to Britain, Raymond Seitz, was summoned to Major's official residence Tuesday. He ac­knowledged Wednesday the visa debate had caused "a big tussle" in the Clinton adminis­tration. 
U.S. government spokesmen defended the president's deci­sion by saying the visa could serve as a "carrot" for Adams to seek peace. 
British officials say it will en­courage Adams not to com­promise. 
A senior official in Britain's Foreign Office said Major want­ed to avoid a "public row" with America. But he added that the visa effectively let Adams "play the democrat" while the IRA went on with its violent cam­paign. 


The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
''C>r1 Tr"l.e Cc-rmpl...l.s'' 
phone: 631-6316 
store hours: Mon-Sat: 9a.m.-5p.m. 
Elmj CD l1clllrffi and rmny, many more fM sale prices begfflng at . .~ 
~ c..i if; 
~ w ~.-----------------------------~~-----------------------------,
o. ::l .f5 THE BEST OF 
~~~THE BEST 
~ ~o ~ 
::l ..... ..::.::: 
ro

0 -o --' 
...-L.. ~ 
~~ §
v L.. If) 
~  L..  
@:2 L..  ~ L..  
_lfl  0  0  
.::::  3  ro  
~5  ~  
:J  If)  If)  
~~  

OF 


..... AND MORE 
ACtDC
GRATEFULDEAD 
Skeletons From The Closet 
D 

0 ~ 
gs~ Come In &Sign Up To Win Tickets To The Garth Brooks Concert! Sale NOW thru Feb. 28th!!!
w ..... 
U) ro 
:::J-5 
page 10 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 4, 1994 
Family feels tightening borders 
By ARTHUR ALLEN 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT, Germany 

She was born in Somalia and at 5 fled with her family to Ethiopia. But in the sponge like way of bright children, she has soaked up a lot of German in six weeks of life in Transit Building C-183. 
The 7 -year-old girl can count to 20 and reads the German children's books volunteers bring to her bunk in the con­crete dormitory at Frankfurt airport. where she sits in sweat pants and a blue party dress, her hair in a ponytail. 
When she says "Tschuess!" -"Good-bye!" -the little girl named Istanbul sounds like a native German. She has said it all too often. 
Authorities have turned down six appeals for asylum since the girl's family landed at Europe's busiest airport Dec. 10. After each refusal, deportation loomed until a volunteer lawyer launched a fresh appeal. 
Though few of the 33 million people passing through it every year are likely to notice, Frankfurt airport has come to epitomize the hardening of western Europe's boundaries against immigrants from east­ern Europe, Africa, Asia and the Middle East. 
From Sweden to France to Greece, police are tightening the rules and cracking down on illegal aliens. Germany, long the most welcoming nation for refugees, since last July has been closed to asylum-seekers. 
Natives of countries at war can stay temporarily, but Germany is narrowing that 
loophole, too. It has taken in 2 her father, Abukar Osman. Mohamed, Istanbul's 6-year-old brother, has a scar on his shoulder from a bandit's stray bullet. 
In Ethiopia, where they fled to in 1992, they couldn't get enough to eat, the family says, and Marian, Istanbul's mother, lost a son in childbirth. 
Marian, 41, is six-months pregnant now. After the fami­ly's last asylum appeal was rejected Jan. 20, she started having contraction pains out of fear. 
She was admitted to a Frankfurt hospital for a possi­ble miscarriage, but even that proved to be no safe haven. After one night at the hospital, border police got a doctor to release her and brought her back to the airport. 
On the morning of Jan. 22, agents dragged Marian in handcuffs toward Lufthansa Flight 590, scheduled to depart for Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, at 10:50 a.m. 
An unexpected reprieve came from the pilot, who refused to take her aboard, saying he couldn't be responsible for a 
mid-flight miscarriage.  
Two  days  later  a  judge  
declared  the  family  could  
remain in Germany  - until  
exactly  four  weeks  after  

Marian's new baby is born. · 
The family would be the first Somalis to be deported from G{)rmany since Somalia's civil war began in 1990. 
In December, the government ordered 100,000 Croatian war refugees to leave by April. After an outraged response from advocacy groups, officials said they might allow Croatians whose hometowns are occupied by Serbs to stay. 
For those who work with the refugees, the new climate is exhausting. 
"The closer you get to these people and learn what they risk if you lose their cases, the 
· harder it is to take on a new one," said Roman Fraenkel, a Frankfurt lawyer who repre­sents the Osmans. 
At least four refugees threat­ened with deportation killed themselves in jail in 1993. On Wednesday, a desperate Russian evangelist set fire to himself in a Bavarian town square after getting an asylum rejection notice. He survived, with bad burns. 
"Angola is my home but it's no good now," 27-year-old Daniel Massivi Lopez wrote in a note found in the Trier jail cell where he hanged himself in October. 
U.N. officials have urged European states not to deport Angolans, but German policy is that Angola is safe. Lopez, who had fled military recruiters in 1989, felt otherwise. "I never wanted to kill," he wrote. 
Because the Osmans flew to Germany from Ethiopia, a land largely at peace, the asylum law gives them no chance of staying. 
Ethiopia refuses to take them back, so the family is in danger of becoming ping-pong balls bouncing between German and Ethiopia, and eventually land­ing back in Somalia, Fraenkel said. 
looFii!li!!~ii!li!!:ii!li!!=:;:::=:::=::;:n~m~~m~~~~==~~~ 
million ,.refugees tinh the lasttfihiVe ~: r"7re Go ronl'al ~""' 
years, 1ar more an any o er European country. About 37,000 refugees live around 
Frankfurt, a city of 500,000. That is about as many as in all 
f B •t · 
o n am. 
But German coffers are dry, alarm about foreign criminals is running high, and officials who've spent billions to feed and house refugees are bent on closing the door to all but the most desperate cases. 
Istanbul's family would appear to be one of those. They were shot at, robbed and threatened by rival Somali clansmen in Mogadishu, said 
~ ..JD• I« ~ PANCAKE 
~ Welcome Back 
~ HOUSE 
~ Notre Dame 
iill !famlfv !Rt~.Jiauranl 
iill J d S · M ' 
~ an amt arysI NOW SERVINGI BISCUITS & ORAVYI FOR $2.79 
MON-FRI ONLY ~ Serving ND/SMC Since I965 ~ Open 7 Days a Week 
Our House Specialty 

~ At 6:30 a.m. ~ US 31 North in Roseland 
Oven,Baked ~ (Across from the Holiday Inn) 
Apple Pancakes (219) 272,7433 
No Coupon Needed 


NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY 


Now TAKING APPUCATIONS FoR '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
College student convicted of first degree murder 
By JEFF DONN 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD, Mass. 
A 19-year-old college stu­dent was convicted Thursday of first-degree murder and sentenced to life in prison for fatally shooting two people and wounding four others at his school. 
Wayne Lo, who received the mandatory sentence and won't be eligible for parole, listened impassively as the verdicts were read. 
Teresa Beavers, who was wounded in the 20-minute spree at Simon's Rock College of Bard and uses a wheelchair, clutched a handkerchief to her face and cried. 
A Hampden County Superior Court jury deliberated 18 hours over three days before reaching its verdict. The 12­member panel also convicted Lo of attempted murder and assault for the Dec. 14, 1992, rampage at the school in the western Massachusetts town of Great Barrington. 
Lo, a native of Taiwan and resident of Billings, Mont., did­n't testify. His lawyers de­scribed him as a tortured loner who believed he was act­ing on God's wishes and was insane. 
Witnesses said Lo planned the shootings. They said he left a trail of quasi-religious writ­ings and copied biblical pas­sages to trick people into thinking he was crazy. 
People who know Lo said he was a troubled teen-ager who sometimes voiced hatred for blacks, Jew, homosexuals, AIDS sufferers and the dis­abled, but the shootings ap­peared to be random, accord­ing to court testimony. 
Lo believed that God had told him to cleanse the campus of homosexuality, drug abuse and lying, according to testi­mony. 
"I think the complete answer of a motive will always be something of a mystery," said prosecutor Gerard Downing. 
A student and a professor were killed. 
The alternative school pro­vides a college education to about 320 students, including some who leave high school early. The trial was moved from Berkshire County to make it easier to find impartial jurors. 
Hey, girl, you look good to me! 
Happy Birthday 
01!Jifllf)@7]9 
We love you beary much! 
Love, Amy2, Jo-EIIen &Mike 

LNA.te 
I 
Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includos team sports, free aerobics classes, and much more. 
Efficiencies from $270 
1-Bedrooms from $285 
2-Bcdrooms from $345 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 
::.::~:::: :~:::::::
affordable apartment living can be. 
f::;/ 
2:12-1 SS() 
+llCKORij 
DlLLA(3E~

-=:__::::_J 

BUSINESS 
Friday, February 4, 1994 page 11 
Vietnam trade expected to rise Dean emphasizes ethical 
By BRUCE STANLEY No one expects the run to be itable state-owned companies 
Associated Press easy. and inviting private foreign aspect of business world 
One of Vietnam's priorities is investment. HANOI to improve roads, bridges, ports Inflation was reduced to sin­By MICHAEL MARTIN sanitize the experience," said Without a U.S. economic and airports damaged by war gle digits by 1993 and annual Keane, pointing out that there
Business Editor 
embargo on Vietnam, American and poor maintenance. economic growth has averaged were things more important 
companies will be free to com­Jim Ferrara, a regional rep­7 percent in the past three The personal dimension of than money to a successful life. 
pete on equal terms for a stake resentative of Caterpillar Inc., years. ethical decision making and the Questions of ethics often 
in a poor but fast-growing said the repair projects could Most of the initial money to attention paid to it by the Notre involve loss of a person's sense 
of purpose and values. The
economy that could become a create a $500 million market pay for American and other for­Dame College of Business 
Administrlttion were empha­goal of ethical instruction at
powerhouse in Southeast Asia. over the next five years for eign goods will come as project 
sized Dean John Keane in Notre Dame is to ensure that
Over the next three years such heavy equipment as his loans from the World Bank and 
his talk the student "won't be direction­
alone, nearly $4 billion worth company's bulldozers and exca­other international agencies. 
"You less in situations that call for
of deals are expected in avia­vators. 
draw composure and clarity." 
tion, telecommunications, He estimated as many as 600 Few Americans predict a 
The question at some busi­
heavy equipment and construc­pieces of Caterpillar equipment sharp increase in sales immedi­ness schools is whether to 
tion. left over from the war were still ately. Instead, they expect mod­teach ethics alone or integrated 
Corporate giants and small in use in southern Vietnam. est growth and prefer to take a into the basic disciplines, added 
trading firms alike are getting long-term_ view. ethics, Keane At Notre Dame, ethics is 
into a market where such Some sales of "humanitari­Vietnam now has only one Keane. taught both separately and in 
American brand names as an" products were allowed telephone for every 350 people, people other classes, showing the 
for importance it holds for the
Marlboro and IBM already are under the embargo. In January, 80 percent of whom live in the 
mula to plug everything into. business school administrators. 
well-known. for example, the government countryside. The need for rural 
In the end, there is none." "We want to be the cathedral 
Offices of 34 U.S. companies announced that General telecommunications means 
Speaking as part of the of business ethics," saia Keane. 
opened in Hanoi and Ho Chi Electric Co. would build two $200 million in possible sales 
Campus Conversations series "The goal is to sensitize stu­
Minh City in anticipation of major health-care centers and over five years, said Craft, the 
sponsored by Student dents as much as possible to
President Clinton lifting the sell Vietnam two high-tech gen­consultant in Hanoi. Motorola 
Government, Keane touched on the issues involved," added 
embargo. In April, at least 60 erators. Inc. hopes to win some of the 
the many areas that are influ­Keane, rebutting those who say 
firms plan to display their prod­Without the embargo, GE business. that ethics cannot be taught
enced by ethical considera­
ucts at the first American trade stands to sell $500 million Foreign companies have tions, using examples as varied because it has no definite 
show in Vietnam. worth of locomotives, turbines, entrenched themselves in the as the padding of expense answers. 
Until now, sanctions kept aircraft engines and medical telecommunications market: accounts and the present Notre Dame's international 
most of them from doing busi­equipment over the three years. Telstra of Australia is to man­Tonya Harding-Nancy Kerrigan business focus also turns up in 
saga. the ethics curriculum. "Ethics
ness here. Americans watched "This amount of business age Vietnam's first undersea 
Ethics does not have to be a and international business are
helplessly as competitors from would support about 5,000 jobs optical fiber cable system and 
disadvantage in business trans­at the heart of the business
France, Japan, Taiwan and in the U.S.," said George Alcatel of France has installed 
actions, said Keane. In the school," said Keane. 
South Korea crowded into com­Jamison, a company 250,000 telephone systems. But 
long term, ethical behavior is "Some schools teach ethics
munist Vietnam's newly liberal­spokesman. He said Craft says telecommunications 
unquestionably the best policy. monolithically; they teach it as
ized economy. Vietnamese demand for GE will offer good opportunities for 
"You don't have to hit people if U.S. standards were univer­
"All this intense activity by products could reach more the next 15 or 20 years, despite 
over the head. There are ways sal," Keane went on to say,
foreign companies here in the than $2 billion over a decade. the competition. 
to artfully decline" to perform pointing out that this approach 
past months is a sign of the Much of Vietnam's commer­AI DeMatteis of DeMatteis an unethical task, said Keane. is insensitive to other cultural 
strength and technology of cial potential stems from free­Construction Co., a New York In addressing the paths of views. 
American products, which are market reforms begun in the City firm, describes real estate those who do act unethically in The business school address­
going to be giving everyone a late 1980s. With the policy of as virgin territory because pursuit of a better bottom line, es this problem by having the 
run for their money," said "doi moi," or renovation, it Vietnam's housing stock is Keane saw the costs as far out­only chair in International 
Business Ethics in the world,
Greig Craft, a consultant based avoided economic collapse by crumbling and it has few high­weighing the benefits. "There is no way for you to according to Keane.
in Hanoi. freeing prices, closing unprof-rise buildings. 


Japan's leader bargains for tax cut package 
By PETER LANDERS income taxes but later raise the Associated Press national sales tax. Hosokawa announced the tax TOKYO 
plan early Thursday, and his Prime Minister Morihiro 
coalition's largest member, the Hosokawa bargained into the 
Socialist Party, quickly threat­early hours Friday trying to ened to quit unless the plan avoid a split in his governing 
was modified, threatening the coalition over a day-old tax-cut survival of Hosokawa's govern­plan designed to boost Japan's ment. ailing economy. 
A compromise appeared to be The dispute again delayed a 
in the works, but it wasn't clear government economic stimulus 
whether Hosokawa would give package, disconcerting up on the proposed sales tax investors who had expected it 
increase, opposed by the to be announced Thursday. The Socialists. political turmoil also distracted 
After a night of negotiations from efforts to work out a new among leaders of the coalition trade deal with the United 
parties, the Socialists' secre­States-before a Feb. 11 dead­tary-general, Wataru Kubo, line set by Washington. 
said that "we'll probably be Even Hosokawa's allies sug­able to get something together" gested he made a serious politi­
in talks scheduled to resume cal blunder with his plan to cut later Friday. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
Health plan opposed by business 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL the end, we believe we're going the Cooper bill as "the best Associated Press to get exactly what the presi­starting point for reform." dent has called for." Cooper's bipartisan bill would WASHINGTON Another administration offi­try to make health insurance 
President Clinton's health cial, Bruce Vladeck, cautioned more affordable without requir­plan took another blow from senior citizens that as pressure ing employers to pay for cover­business groups Thursday, with builds in Congress for less age for their workers. the U.S. Chamber of Commerce sweeping reforms, they could While the 215,000-member dismissing it even "as a starting lose the Medicare prescription chamber last year endorsed the point." Rep. Jim Cooper, drug and long-term care bene­idea of making both employers buoyed by support from big fits Clinton has promised. and employees kick in for business, said he may broaden "Those benefits are vulnera­health insurance, it said his rival proposal. ble," said Vladeck, whose Thursday it cannot support 
White House senior adviser Health Care Financing Clinton's employer mandate or George Stephanopoulos said Administration runs Medicare. any other mandate now before more than 70 percent of the He delivered that warning to Congress. American public supports worried leaders of the The chamber's Robert E. Clinton's goal of guaranteed American Association of Patricelli told the House Ways coverage for all Americans, and Retired Persons after Cooper and Means Committee the Cooper's bill won't do that. told them he was trying to add Clinton plan "proposes such a 
Shrugging off the setbacks at "a good long-term care" bene­burden of high employer premi­the hands of the chamber and fit to his bill. um contributions, rich benefits the Business Roundtable, and counterproductive regula­Stephanopoulos said, "There On Wednesday the influential tion and ... bureaucracy, that are going to be a lot of ups and Business Roundtable, a group we believe it cannot even be downs along the way. But in of 200 corporate chiefs, backed used as a starting point." 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

WASHINGTON AKRON WASHINGTON Orders to factories rose a fifth The International United The Agriculture Department
lilml 
UB 
straight month in December, Rubber Workers hope to reach today said 971 delinquent bor­
+11.53 

leading economists to predict a an agreement with Michelin to rowers owe more than $1 mil­
4025 

strong showing for manufactur­prevent the company's Uniroyal lion each to the Farmers Home 3950 
ing in 1994 -but one that Goodrich tire plant near Fort Administration, potentially
r../ 
3875 

might not immediately help the Wayne, Ind., from closing. costing the agency billions . 
.r 
3800 

~obless. Orders to U.S. factories Michelin, the parent company.A~ J 
rose 1.2 percent in December to Uniroyal Goodrich, offered
3725 

~ -~
.­

and helped drive up orders for the union a counterproposal The delinquent borrowers owe "' 
3650 

the year 5. 9 percent, the Wednesday during a meeting in an average $2.3 million each
3575 

Commerce Department report­Akron. for a total bad debt of $2.2 bil­
11/1/93 12/1/93 1/1/94 2/1/94 3/1/94 
ed Thursday. lion, the agency said. 
-----~--------~--------------------~ ---------........-------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, February 4, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINr MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinnc:y 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .................... .Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems M•mager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Nc:ws Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Ediror, Photo Ediror, Sports Ediror, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNic:wpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
Nc:ws/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


EDITORIAL 
Breaching the silence on AIDS 
So how can Notre Dame improve its efforts towards the expan­sion of AIDS education and awareness? Sure the AIDS Quilt will soon be here, but what about daily resources and what about reality? 
AIDS is not an issue that when addressed is going to sacrifice our Catholic character. AIDS is not an issue that when addressed is going to promote contraception. AIDS is not an issue that when addressed will promote homosexuality. But AIDS doesn't discriminate-it doesn't care if it affiicts Catholics or homosexuals or intravenous drug users. 
A cornerstone of the Church is compassion. Other Catholic uni­versities have realized this, why can't Notre Dame? First and foremost. an updated policy must be made available to all students either in du Lac or in some other form similar to the alcohol policy. 
But a handbook in itself will not even begin to remedy Notre 
Dame's problems.  In order for any pragmatic steps to be made,  
the administration  must confront the realities facing Americans  
in the '90s.  

We have some suggestions: 

•During 
freshman orientation all students are subject to pre­sentations on alcohol management, minority relations, the Honor Code and rape. Extending this program to include AIDS aware­ness would be well worth the effort and a vital addition. 

•People 
need to feel comfortable enough to talk. By utilizing the laid-back atmosphere of the weekly section meetings in the residence halls, a situation conducive to open dialogue will be created. After all, acceptance of an issue arrives most easily when it is discussed. 

•In 
order to educate, there must be interest. By inviting such speakers as Jeanne Ashe, the wife of tennis legend and AIDS vic­tim Arthur Ashe or Mary Fisher, the HIV positive mother who spoke at the '92 Republican National Convention, can stimulate discussion. 


•Moreover, by introducing the cultural contributions of AIDS 
and HIV afflicted individuals to Notre Dame, a real sense of 
understanding and awareness can be obtained. Several artists 
such as Keith Haring, Gilbert & George, Tom Wagstaff and 
Dimitri Galas have made it their purpose to reveal not only the 
disease but its impact on society as well. Perhaps an exhibit in 
LaFortune, the Snite Museum, or the Hesburgh Library 
Concourse would help show the humanist side to this epidemic. 
The point is, Notre Dame must make some practical, pro-active 
steps towards awareness and education. As a Catholic universi­
ty which purports to provide the ideals of enlightenment and 
compassion to its students, we are left with a sense of disap­
pointment. However, this is an issue that can be resolved with­
out compromising any of our Catholic heritage. This is an 
opportunity for Notre Dame to do what it does best: educate. 
DOONESBURY 
OBSERVERSE 



-----~----~------~-­
------~-­
Friday, February 4, 1994 page 13 
-VIEWPOINT 
FRANK PIMENTEL HEARTS AND MINDS 
Economic and moral reform needed for. violence 
Late last semester former Attorney General of the United States William Barr addressed the Notre Dame Law School on the subject of criminal justice reform. Following his speech, he joined a panel discussion which included a law professor, a minister from the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and a local high school principal. 
From there the discussion shifted toward considering root causes of crime and possible remedies. Generally, the debate seems to be whether the prob­lem is largely moral -people have lost a sense of absolute right and wrong, and conse­quently have also lost respect for life itself -or economic, whereby people feel they have no chance at a legitimately prosperous future so turn to drugs, crime and sex. 
Then over Christmas break my father repeatedly expressed his concern to me about ran­dom violence facilitated by guns. He says, at age 64, that he is more concerned for my fu­ture and that of my niece and nephews than his own, but is fervent in his belief that "some­thing must be done." 
Finally, President Clinton de­voted a significant amount of his State of the Union address to criminal justice reform. He, too, seems to sense our con­cerns. And I think nearly all of us do worry about brutal, sav­age crime and the potential of falling victim to it. 
So, what are the problems and the answers? 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Last November, Charles Murray published an essay in The Wall Street Journal in which he persuasively stated the case that illegitimacy as we know it, which is a moral and economic problem, is tanta­mount to "the sky really ... falling." He argues that we must cease subsidizing it. 
Murray explains that for 
' Illegitimacy as we know it, which is a moral and economic problem, is tantamount to 'the sky really ... falling' 
Charles Murray 

1991, just short of 30% of all live births were to unwed moth­ers. Racially, this breaks down to 68% of black births and 22% of white births. He maintains that, based on the black experi­ence of the last 30 years, these figures portend doom if not treated dramatically. In the early 1960s the figure for illegitimate black births sat just four points higher than the cur­rent white rate; and once the black rate passed 25%, trends on black crime, dropout from the labor force and illegitimacy all rose dramatically. The white rate is rapidly approaching 25%. What then? Worse of the same, as a heretofore white un­derclass coalesces and metas­tasizes. 
As to the economic aspect of this phenomenon, among white illegitimate births, only 1% oc­cur to women with family in­comes of $75,000 while 69% occur to women with family in­comes under $20,000. So much for "Murphy Brown," and three cheers for the former Vice President. 
Thus, Murray advocates im­mediate and severe action; namely, abolition of welfare, and a societal stigmatization of illegitimacy. The argument pro­ceeds that if welfare (Aid to Families with Dependent Children) and subsidized hous­ing and food stamps and other subsidies and in-kind benefits were eliminated, based alterna­tives {who would also, conse­quently, have more money to dispense) like parents and churches, neighbors and sib­lings, and boyfriends. More likely, women would think and think again before allowing life to be created in them. 
Some would argue that to take such drastic action "harms" innocent children. But can the children of poor, single mothers be at any more risk than they already are? It is hard to imagine. As Professor Marvin Olasky of the University of Texas put it in the current issue of National Review: "The last defense of today's backers of AFDC is that cutbacks hurt innocent children. The histori­cal lesson is that welfare senti­mentality hurts them far more." 
Of course, some women who would not opt for abortion un­der the current welfare system 
Dismemberment not appropriate punishment 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to respond to Treven Santicola's letter (The Observer shows poor taste with cartoon, the Observer, February 2, 1994). In case Ms. Santicola has forgotten, men are also present on Our Lady's campus (You know, men, the cause of all the problems in the world!). 
I am greatly disturbed by her opinions regarding involuntary dismemberment. If you look in the back of some dictionaries and encyclopedias you might find a document called the Constitution {You know, the lit­tle thing written by dead, ho­mophobic, racist, sexist, white males). One of its amendments, the eighth to be exact, forbids "cruel and unusual punish­ment." 
Along with the false accusa­tion possibility, this amendment is cited by those who oppose the death penalty. She claims to be among their numbers. It is no little consolation to me that she oppose the death penalty on the basis that it would not pass the cruel and unusual punishment test, for she also believes that slicing off a man's penis somehow meets the con­stitutional· requirements for legal punishment. 
I don't know if cutting off a man's penis is unusual. I can say it is quite cruel. I believe that people who have no prob­lem with involuntary dismem­berment are the ones to be avoided (or at least kept away from sharp objects). rather than those of us who advocate enlightened and rational theo­ries of justice. 
Ms. Santicola wrote, "When someone commits a crime the first step on the path to justice is to take away their weapon. A man who uses his penis as a weapon of violence and injus­tice deserves to be disarmed." 
According to this rule, the thief should have his or her hands cut off. One who throws a punch should meet a similar fate. In the world of sexual harassment, one found guilty of that offense should have his or her tongue removed. 
However, if someone should sit on another person and con­sequently kill that person, then we have a problem. Can you cut off someone's butt? And what happens if a woman should rape a man? What punishment would this logic suggest? You'd better consult the Marquis de Sade on that question because the answer most certainly will not be found in the annals of American jurisprudence. 
Ms. Santicola brought up the problem of false accusations and quickly dismissed it. I don't want to presume anything, but wasn't that just a wee bit insen­sitive to us men who might be victimized by vigilante action? 
With the nebulous definition of rape and harassment es­poused by the courts and femi­nist activists today (Anita Hill has been quoted as saying, "Women should be supported regardless of proor'), it seems a man could lose his penis and not know what he did to de­serve it. But, it really doesn't matter because it's men were talking about now. Men: the scapegoat for everyone. After all, you can sew it back on. Or just stand in the corner of the shower after the big football game and invest in boxer shorts. 
Or is it better that nine inno­cent men get the knife rather than one guilty get away? I hate to disillusion anybody, but I was taught at this university that our justice system does not work this way. Such tenets as "innocent until proven guilty," "no one shall be a judge in his or her own case," (much less an executioner in his or her own case), and a right to a fair trial can not be allowed to become things we read about in history books. 
Ms. Santicola and I agree on one point: rape is a heinous crime. It should be punished to the fullest extent of the law. Rape in a marriage is a sin that cries out to heaven for vengeance. I believe this with all of my heart. 
However, we in America have a system of laws that were de­signed to punish criminals. This system collapses when we take the law into our own hands and become judge, jury, and execu­tioner. The law was made to protect the kind of scum that John Bobbitt is. Why? Because there is the one chance that a person's freedom might be re­moved due to a false accusa­tion. 
We live in a civilized country (I thought) and when we attack our tormentors outside of the law, we pursue a vendetta, an ancient system of justice, but one which doesn't happen to be ours (National Review, February 7, 1994). 
CHRISTOPHER COPPULA Senior Fisher Hall 

might if the government were to stop assuming financial re­sponsibility for their kids. But even_pro-choicers concede that abortion as a continual contra­ceptive is highly impractical. More importantly, to support this reform idea is not to sup­port abortion. Rather, it is to support abstinence outside of marriage, and community re­sponsibility for kids that are conceived outside of marriage. In the same way, is it wrong for a professor to give a D or F be­cause of how the student might react? 
This proposal does not as­sume, as some will undoubtedly argue, that Murray thinks women "get pregnant for the 
' stigm~ and shotgun marnages may or may not be good for those on the receiving end, but their deterrent effects on others is won­derful.' 
Charles Murray 
money"; rather it assumes that government provisions allow single women to have children out of wedlock. Instead, he as­serts, society must send the message loud and clear that "to have a baby that you cannot care for yourself is profoundly irresponsible, and the govern­ment will no longer subsidize it. 
... The pressure on relatives and communities to pay for the folly of their children will make an illegitimate birth the socially horrific act it used to be, and getting a girl pregnant some­thing boys do at the risk of fac­ing a shotgun. Stigma and shot­gun marriages may or may not be good for those on the re­ceiving end, but their deterrent effect on others is wonderful ­and indispensable." 
Moreover, Murray explains that adoption laws would have to be· completely liberalized, in­cluding lifting silly bans on in­terracial adoption, and easing age limitations. Also, the gov­ernment would do well to spend freely on orphanages for those kids whose mothers are incom­petent as mothers. Lastly, mar­riage would have to once again be made the sole legal institu­tion through which parental rights and responsibilities are established and enforced. 
Now that the Clinton adminis­tration is safely in office, it seems that Democrats have picked up the refrain which Republicans unsuccessfully but rightly began in 1992: "It's the families, stupid." If we really want to advance long-term, structural solutions to pervasive violence, indeed, societal anomie, I submit that recogni­tion and righting of the problem of fatherless kids tops the agen­da. 
Frank Pimentel is a 1987 Notre Dame graduate and cur­rently a third-year student in the Law School. 

Administration chooses to convert wrong dorm 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing this in response to the column of Pete Peterson (the Observer, February 2, 1994). While we thank him for expressing his views about Cavanaugh, his experience with the 'Naugh is 23 years old. As current resi­dents, we would like to relate to Mr. Peterson what North Quad is like in 1994. 
First of all, Mr. Peterson resided in Farley, a dorm he characterized as "more mature". I think he would be discouraged to know that the reputation of Farley has become slightly tainted. The integrity of a dorm that chooses to be the sister dorm of Zahm has to be questioned. 
With regards to Keenan/Stanford, we feel sorry for the people that are forced to live those cinder block palaces with cardboard walls. I guess all that '50s architecture could have an effect on your attitude. 
While Breen-Philips is our sister dorm, it has reputation that cannot be dismissed by this letter. Then again, when you name your food sales, "The Trough", you bring ridicule upon yourself. 
That leaves our 'brother" dorm Zahm. Unfortunately, Zahm thrives on its terrible reputation. By subjecting their freshmen to being smacked with dead fish, the residents gain a callousness to public opinion. Some people even believe that the reason that Cavanaugh was changed rather than Zahm is the fact that the rectors of other dorms did not want to have Zahm "guys" liv­ing in their dorm. Who could blame them? At least now, they are contained to one building. 
Finally, there is Cavanaugh. Mr. Peterson might be upset to know that we no longer have the same reputation as a bas­tion of sexual harassment. Rather, our dorm has become the epitome of a Notre Dame residence community. The mix of academics, athletics and social life is matched nowhere on campus. This fact is backed up by the enormous amount of women who want to transfer into the dorm for next year. 
'The integrity of a · dorm that chooses to be the sister dorm of Zahm has to be ques­tioned.' 
This is the state of North Quad in 1994. Unfortunately, the future of the quad is unde­termined, especially since the Administration has chosen to convert the Pride of North Quad, rather than its ugly little brother, that everyone is ashamed of. 
ANDREW DeLUCA Junior JAMESROHR Sophomore WILL MARTIN Freshman Cavanaugh Hall 


The Observer • ETC. Friday, February 4, 1994 


Photo by Chamindra Dassanayake 

Members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Lebanese Club perform during the 1993 International Student Organization's annual festival. 
International festival offers cultural performances 
By STEVE TANKOVICH 
Accent Writer 
What do Lithuania, Italy, Lebanon, and Chile all have in common? 
Sights and sounds from these countries will fill Washington Hall Saturday at 8 p.m. for the annual International Student Organization International Festival (ISO). 
The festival is a mixture of performances representing many cultures on campus. Performers representing 35 countries will promote global awareness with authentic dances and musical recitals. 
"The reason for the festival is to let different cultures throughout campus share their traditions and cultures with the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity, said Esteban Cantillo,festival organizer. 
"Everyone is welcomed and encouraged to attend," said Chamindra Dassanayake, festi­val coordinator. 
Dassanayake and Cantillo are co-presidents of the ISO. They strongly encourage students from all cultures, including American, to participate in this and other ISO activities. 
"There is a notion here on campus that when you talk of something international, you mean foreign," Dassanayake said, "but [the ISO] is open to anyone; any student can be a member." 
In the past, ISO has spon­sored a Latin American Dance, and the International Banquet. They also have several service programs, including visits to South Bend community schools to discuss international experi­ences, and working with an area woman who takes care of foster kids. Last April, they had a belated celebration of the 500th anniversary of the land­ing of Columbus. 
Many of the performances at this year's ISO Festival are becoming traditions in them­selves. The ND Philippine Club will be performing Tinikling 
Tinikling is a complicated dance that involves performers dancing in rhythm though bam­boo poles. Also, Troop ND will return for an American perfor­mance. This year will have two American acts, since the Ballroom Dance Club will also be performing. 
We want to break the notion that Americans cannot partici­pate in the performances, said Dassanayake. 
Other performances at this year's festival will include acts from Brazil, Guatemala, Mexico, Spain, France, and India. Also, the ND clubs Ballet Folklorico and Sabor Latino will perform. 
Cantillo and Dassanayake would like to thank several organizations: the Hesbugh Peace Institute, the Campus Club Coordination Council, Student Government, the Alumni Senior Club, and the NDCIBD. 
This festival is the first of two that the ISO' will sponsor this year. The ISO will also be per­forming off-campus at the Century Center Bendix Theater on April15. 
Tickets for the ISO International Festival are $3 for students and $5 for the general public. They are available at the LaFortune Information Desk and at the ISO affairs office or at the door. 


Romance beckons students at comedy dating game 
By BEVIN KOVALIK "The game will run just like the dating show Assistant Accent Editor on TV. but witb a nineties twi$t," said Amanda DiGirolamo. SUB coordinator. 
Hey singles· Are you sick of battling the bars, Martin has implemented this dating extrava­blind dance dates, crowded dorm parties and ganza into his comedy acts across the country. smoky clubs? He has written for "The Tonight Show" with Jay 
Well, the comical dating game "Rendez­Leno, and has appeared on MTV, "Comic Strip vous" has come to Notre Dame from the Boston Live," and other cable comedy channels. Comedy Company, so abandon your quest for "It's not just a regular stand-np comedy act," the perfect match. explained DiGirolamo." Martin works this game Billy Martin, the hilarious crowd-pleasing into his entire show ... 
comedian,-will serve as the show's host, and Prize gifts for the lucky couples will include will play cupid as students discover potentially gift certificates to area restaurants, movie tick­true love or just laugh hysterically with their ets, tickets to Shakespeare's "Romeo and 
friends this evening at 7:30 p.m. in the Juliet" (coming to Washington Hall), and tickets LaFortune Ballroom. to the annual SUB sponsored spring conc_ert, 
Specially selected prior to the start of the the band yet to be announced. show, ten women and ten men contestants will "This is something fun you and your friends compete in four rounds until everyone is suc­can do before going out this weekend." added cessfully matched. DiGirolamo. "So, as the slogan goes you can 
During the start of each round one guest will come to meet your match or just come to interrogate three participants of the opposite laugh." sex, and based on the answers will choose Daring and curious students who wish to 
someone to accompany them on a dream date, participate in "Rendez-vous" may call the SUB all expenses paid by the Student Union Board. office at 631-7757 before the festivities begin. Admission is free for everyone. 

Friday,February 4, 1994 The Observer • ETC. page 15 
Quilt exhibition displays artistic tradition 

emiLy: a campus band coming of age 
By PATII CARSON 
Accent Writer 
The word "quilt" often conjures up images of family lore, traditions, and history. 
The mention of quilting inspires the recollection of stories from pioneer life, when women made quilts to both physically and psychologically survive hardship, while endowing them with great aesthetic beauty. Quilts are seen as expressions of the home, and most particularly, of a woman's touch. 
"Honoring Tradition, Pioneering Change: The Quilter's Expression" is a historical exhibition featur­ing quilts from 1840 to 1950 in the Moreau Galleries at Saint Mary's College. This program runs from Feb. 4­27. 
"In planning for our sesquicentennial year, we recog­nized that the art of quilting and the lives of many quil­ters powerfully and vividly illustrate this theme and, therefore, quilting has been given special prominence among this year's events," according to Dorothy Feigl, sesquicentennial committee chair and dean of academ­ic affairs. 
The picture of women's lives in the nineteenth cen­tury has been illuminated through the study of quilts. They are valuable resources which reflect women's social, political, and practical concerns in an age that often limited their participation to the domestic sphere. 
Two of the few fields in which women could exercise their leadership qualities and pioneering spirit in the 1800's were missionary work and teaching. The Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross was founded in France in 1842. 
This group of Sisters who arrived in northern Indiana in 1843 was full of pioneers and leaders in every sense. They found a thriving community com­prised of European immigrants, Amish families, and even native Potawatomi Indians. All of these settlers possessed impressive textile skills, many in different styles of quilting. 
Soon the Sisters were providing educational instruc­tion for young girls of the surrounding community. In 1844, they founded Saint Mary's as an academy for 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
Listening to emiLy's first release, "Walking Home on the Emergency Bed," and then listening to their new seven-inch, "Finer Time," is like taking a shot of vodka and then taking a shot of whiskey; the strength is there both times, but the second dose is a bit easier to digest. 
The band which began its career bouncing from song to song with seemingly little or no pattern and developing a musical unpredictability that Mr. Bungle would be proud of, has now drawn some boundary lines and is ready to take on all comers, somewhat symbolic of Lael Tyler's cover art which depicts their home turfs porch. 
Although only three songs long, Finer Time is enough to exhibit the improvements that emiLy has crafted in only eight months. The trio's lineup, Joe Cannon on guitar and vocals, Mike Larmoyeux on bass, and Doug McEachern on drums, remains unchanged, but the. talents behind the instruments are now super­charged, particularly from the bass and drums. 
Early 1993 saw emiLy as a new band which often found itself trying to mold the skills of its three mem­bers together at a pace faster than most of its songs, resulting in something of a foot-race with Cannon lead­ing the way. However, presently, their sound has the trio mounted on a three-seated bicycle, speeding ahead, scoping the scene, and waving to all their friends. 
women with special emphasis on the arts. Later to become Saint Mary's College, the Academy provided a rigorous academic program along with a year-end award premium for decorative needle work. 
Saint Mary's became well-known as an outstanding educational institution, pioneering women's studies within a traditional framework. Many quilting revivals have surfaced in the past century, attesting to the enduring qualities of this artistic medium. 
The quilts in this sesquicentennial exhibit span near­ly one hundred years of change and tradition. They represent diversity of the community and the individ­ual creativity of the quilters. Beginning with a quilt that traveled by covered wagon to Indiana from Pennsylvania in 1849 and ending with revival quilts of the depression era, each piece of artwork has· its own interesting tale to tell. 
The "Amish Pieced Roman Stripe Quilt," for instance, was made for Lydia Yoder by her mother Susie Miller in 1934 as a wedding gift. The blue velvet triangle in the center is taken from the mother's wedding gown. 
Another interesting quilt on display is the Strawberry Applique Quilt. Crafted in 1875, this quilt was made for Eva Bernhardt Plocher's trousseau in preparation for her marriage. Family history recounts that Eva grew tired of embroidering the seeds of strawberries and, therefore, left only the central wreath embellished with this detail. 
"The Amish often leave a space in their quilts-a seeming mistake in the midst of their well-thought-out plans-to serve as an opening to let the spirit come in," said Sue Bender, author of Plain and Simple Journal. 
The exhibition also includes a lecture by Elaine Hedges, author of Hearts and Hands. She will present a lecture entitled "Recovering the Past: Feminism and the Contemporary Quilt Revival." This presentation will take place on Friday at 7 p.m. in Little Theater. 
Another lecture follows on Sunday at 3 p.m. in Little Theater. This is a presentation by quilt collector Rebecca Haarer entitled "Amish Quilts from Northern Indiana." 
The Saint Mary's departments of Education and English will sponsor a program by local storyteller Kathleen Zmuda. She will present tales of women and 
"I get angry because there is a lot of talent on this campus that is getting completely ignored," said Cannon, "I have to give credit to Chisel for starting the excitement on this campus for underground music, but the problem is that if they are not on the bill most peo­ple will not be interested in going to see a campus show." 
"Cartoon Sex," the first track off Finer Time con­cerns how fun sexual relationships are at our age, according to Cannon. "It's so easy to be frustrated," he screams at a peak in the song's layout, unfrivolously supported by Larmoyeux's railroad track-laying bass 
"'Finer Time' is about 

sitting around before 
you have any idea 
what you're going to 
be in a year and a 

half," says Cannon of 
the title track. "Finer 
Time" lessens its 
intensity the way a 
roller coaster's second 
hill is less intense; prepara­

......,;;;;::;;:;;;;....,~ tion for what is ahead is easier to achieve, but the rush is still there. 
"5 (Frialator)" is an instrumental for the most part, but is possibly the strongest song emiLy has written to date. Its five and a half minutes, electrified by the 
Photo by Lynette Jentolt-Nilsen 

This strawberry applique quilt, which was crafted in 1875, was designed by artist Eva Bernhardt Plocher for her Trousseau in preparation for her marriage.This quilt will be on display during the exhibition from Feb.4-27 at Saint Mary's. 
history on Feb. 15 at 4:15 p.m. in the galleries. All events are open to the public free of charge. 
Quilters, a theatrical presentation written by Molly Newman and Barbara Damashek will be performed Feb. 24-27 at Little Theater. 
The quilt celebration continues throughout the sum­mer with the "Quilt Lover's Trunk Show" at Haggar Center on June 4-5. The exhibition will also continue into the next academic year. The quilts give us images of home, tradition, art, and innovation: The quilter's expression. 
"We wish to thank the quiltmakers themselves who represent one hundred years of artistic tradition that continues to wrap us in the warmth and beauty of his­tory," said Marcia Rickard, exhibition committee chair. 
part where Mike's bass sounds like grinding thunder ... 
here we're going into battle ... " 
Cannon likens Larmoyeux's bass-playing on "5(Frialator}" to "the at-at walkers on the frozen plains of Hoth" and that about sums it up. 
As far as the future of emiLy is concerned, their biggest upcoming project is a CD with Rent-to-Own Records (also Finer Time's label} on which artists such as Chisel, Spoonfed, July, Gorchboy, Victoria's Real Secret, True North, Jim Dopky, and Bill Racine will also contribute. 
"The CD is a campus compilation but not done through the school because we'd have to censor it and do other nasty things with it," says Cannon. 
Other upcoming projects for emiLy include doing some studio recording next week (the band has about 17 songs that have yet to be recorded}, a show at Dalloway's on Feb. 26, and a possible tour over spring break. 
As far as Finer Time is concerned. the seven-inch has been sent to radio stations WNUR in Chicago, WCBN in Michigan, WBGU at Bowling Green, and WPRB at Princeton, as well as a host of others. It is available for purchase from the band members. from Tracks, and from Orbit. 
So what about the old emiLy? 
"There are a couple songs from Walking Home on the Emergency Bed that we still get into," said Cannon. > There are alot of ideas we like, we just don't like the way we chose to put those ideas together. We haven't 
"Two-thirds of our songs come from guitar lines," showcases each of the band members makes, reign to superseded those songs. there are still six or seven that said Cannon, "a few come from Mike's bass lines and a fuse together the three historical musical notions that we'll be playing for a while." few from Doug's drums. Doug and Mike have more emiLy is based on: ska, punk, and the furious drive Hence, although I would not recommend either of freedom in songwriting this year." which is rock and roll. Watching Cannon listen to the emiLy's releases to someone with heart disease, their 
This updated alignment. created by the improve­song is comparable to a father reminisce about his music proves to be solid on both; Finer Time is just ments made by Larmoyeux and McEachern over the sons' first band recital. served with some parsley. summer, fmds emiLy in a position to claim its existence "Listen to Doug here.... when Mike plays the bass as a veteran of the campus scene...whatever that here he grinds his thumbnail into nothing ... he always makes this face when we're about to begin .... this is the 
means. 
~-­
t I page 16 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, February 4, 1994 
I 
I 
I 
I I A gryphon defends his emerald city from the dark side 
I 
I I saw in the December issue 
and thousands pay lip service to them will have left them of Common Sense that I have the Creed that says Jesus is equipped with their own built­been outed by the delightful Lord. in, shock-proof radar systems, Ann Pettifer as a homo Father Robert Griffin which will help them tell theI ludens,who mawkishly rever­Students are given a decent difference between sh-t and I education, and a vast caring Shinola.
I ences the Church and the Bellers Ia a Bonefj 9od 
University which have allowed goes on. Notre Dame is a city of Ms. Pettifer urges "the me a place in the sun. prophets zealous for justice and estimable Gryphon to explorer Obviously I could win stars for peace-Peter Walshe, Theodore the dark side of his Camelot, my crown as a prophet if I tried Hesburgh, Charles Rice, where God's commandments
human condition, I do it good­his merry band were taking
' 
Richard Warner, William are not kept and the truth is notr turning John Paul II into a naturedly; otherwise, the fresh­Notre Dame for all it's worth as 
' 
laughing-stock. Storey, Dolores Frese,/Tom admitted.-I have never doubt­
men women will write to tell a gravy train. 
McDermott, Teresa Phelps, and ed that there is a dark side to 
' I But, as Sam the Gonoph me of how Don McNeil and Looking at the names that Ms.
I warns us -he's one of Damon Darby O'Gill III-and our heads Camelot, just as there is a dark
Mary Anne Roemer have heard Pettifer mentions, and mulling are filled with their contradic­side to Griffin, and a dark sideRunyon's guys and dolls-"All the cries of the poor. over the people she points the
~ life is 6 to 5 against." tions of one another. Christ's to the Catholic Church on the
Then I will have to write to finger at, I'm tempted to say: grace is everywhere, and Old days when the Human Elementtell them that as a lapsed "Concedo; ergo quid?" I've been 
' With odds like that, life is Glory waves over us. We're a seems to belong to party of
Batist-that's the religion I attentive to the pain of the
I
' 
chancey enough without my belonged to before I became an place for nearly thirty years. I credit to the country and the anti-Christ.I making it chancier by joining Anglican-I prefer to see out­have heard the sins confessed, Church. 
Ms. Pettifer when" she's pointing Is, then, Notre Dame Should the priest, the
reach programs which have and been told the secrets. Oh I 
out where the bodies are Camelot? Should we want it to University, and the Church take 
been washed in the Blood of the don't know all the scandals, but 
buried. If I knew where any be Camelot, with its history of to heart the Scripture verse
Lamb. I know enough. Sunt lacrimae 
bodies were buried, it would be The Medjugorje crowd bears rerum et mentem mortalia tan­betrayals? At Notre Dame, from 1st John placed at the my duty, I think, to pray for betrayals have had a history all beginning of Ms. Pettifer's
watching, and so I zealously gunt. "They weep here/For how their own; that's part of what admirable essay? "We can be
them,though it might sound watch them, trying to keep in the world goes, and our life that mealy-mouthed to say as much. touch with what has allegedly passes/ Touches their hearts." we mean when we say that the sure that we know God only by 
Isn't it unkind of Ms. Pettifer been happening lately in (Virgil, The Aeneid} blood of the builders is on the keeping God's commandments. to tempt me to publicly bite the Sundance Country. bricks. Call the place Camelot Anyone who says 'I know God,' hand that feeds me? Does she Keeping myself busy with Notre Dame has an official or the Emerald City; these are and does not keep God's com­think I would invite her to bad­metaphors of hope we offer vis­mandments, is a liar, refusing
peripheral things, I must rely dream of itself as a Roman 
mouth the Established Church itors. Lou Holtz tells the media to admit the truth." 
on Ms. Pettifer to see that the Catholic institution of higher
of her perfidious Albion, of that God's Mother takes an If Our Lady's University does
priests don't steal duLac blind. learning. That's what's wrong
which I consider myself an only I don't see why they would with the place, and that's interest in the football team. not know God, then the campus He's feeding a myth that the cannot be in a state of grace.
slightly-lapsed member? want to, since all they need what's right with the place. To 
Didn't the present Archbishop students can take with them That's the kind of thing Jimmy 
money for is to supply the Holy . promote the dream, we lie and 
of Canterbury say: "I see it as Ctoss Community with sou and are guilty of hypocrisy. We when they leave. Swaggart would say. I know 
an elderly lady, who mutters It will remind them of a place Ann Pettifer; that is, I've met
circus. The salaries collected by become inordinately proud, and 
away to herself in a corner, swagger. We hurt people. We that looks like Camelot when her once. I would like to have
~the priests and brothers pay for 
ignored most of the time"? you see it at night from the her as a friend of mine. 
the bread and butter served at sometimes use money with a 
Ms. Pettifer should be able to other side of the lakes. It's part She is, I insist, no Jimmy
table in Corby Hall. Otherwise, taint on it. tell, from the slightly-muted the CSC's might have to support (As Vespasian said when he of the hype that makes Notre Swaggart. Maybe if she could 
Dame a moveable feast they say publicly what she likes
cries of rage/ she must hear themselves by making and sell­taxed the public lavatories in 
coming from this Amen Corner can celebrate, in hard times or about Notre Dame, I will stop
ing jelly or cheese, or baking Rome: "Pecunia non olet." 
where I keep the night watch sad times when their lives have trying to canonize the place
bread, or producing grapes Money has no smell.)
with the Lonely God, that being become a famine. every time I mention it in print. 
they could turn into wine. This is the dark side of the 
a tamed gryphon doesn't mean dream, and it shows that as The students are the bright If Notre Dame can produce an I've turned belly-up to the sun. · Whatever is left from those Catholics, we have the same lights of the place. Truth and alumna like the Lady Ann, error are run past them in the maybe this school is just as
When I suggest that the Social combined salaries is returned faults as everyone else. What's 
Gospel needs beefing up if it classrooms. Perhaps in four great as I have ah~ays said it
to the University as a gift. None right with the place is that the years, the scholars who teach was.
really hopes to improve the of this sounds as if Monk and Gospel does get preached here, 
~OJSERVER  
is now accepting applications for the 1994-95 General Board Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to jake Peters by Thursday, Feb. 10 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. is responsible for generating advertising revenue. VIEWPOINT EDITOR AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketingeditors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. SPORTS EDITOR PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas of QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. Theand special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and worksresponsible for the content of the sports section each day. closely with department staff on layout and design. ACCENT EDITOR SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, over­computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the sees the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entireday. Observer staff on the use of the system. PHOTO EDITOR OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis: Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with closely with department editors in assigning photographs. Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. CONTROLLER The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties.  

--------~----~~----­

NOTICES  Need ride to St. Louis any week­end!!II Will pay for gas! I Call Mindy 284-5417  TurtleCrk 2BR Twnhse avail. for 94-95 Cristenx1912  The NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt Feb. 25-27  **START SAVING NOW FOR THE NIGHT OF YOUR LIFE**  Wanted: An exceptionally gifted tutor for advanced high school physics and calculus. Set theory  -~  
8 Wild Walsh Women desire your  and proof knowledge wouldn't hurt.  
USED TEXTBOOKS  Volunteer Meeting  invitation to the Senior Formal -If  Will pay $10-$15 per hour. Please  
Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard ' 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun  Need one extra JPW ticket for all events DESPERATELYIII!II!I  TICKETS  Thursday, Feb. 3 7:00p.m.  interested, leave a message @ x0856. Those who prefer 18 year  call234-2465, 4 to 10 p.m. Ask for Christine.  
Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506  La Fortune Ballroom  olds need not apply.  
Help! I need an extra JPW ticket  
for any event, especially Friday  EVERYONE WELCOME  SUMMER JOBS -ALL  SPRING BREAK! S. PADRE  
Bands I Musicians-Free S-track  night! It is for my grandmother so  LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­ ISLAND Beachfront -where it is all  
recording (1 song/group) through  SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+  please help! Will pay.  TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  at! 213 Bedroom Condo. Parties,  
Sat. 2112. Most recording done  in salary & benefits. Ski!Snowboard  Call Susan 4-2548.  SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS!  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  contests, disco on the beach.  
where you practice. After 2112, rate  instructors, lift operators, wait staff,  Tickets are still available for the  NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­ OWNER DISCOUNT. Also Marco  
is $10/hr. Call Tim, 273-6142.  chalet staff + other positions  ********** FOR SALE ***************  ski trip to Bittersweet on Saturday,  786-8373  Island, Florida near Keys 1BR.  
(including summer). Over 15,000  Feb.5. Transportation will be pro- Boats, pool, jacuzzi, HAPPY  
ILOST & FOUND I  openings. For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V5584  2 GARTH BROOKS TICKETS FOR THE SUNDAY, FEB. 13 SHOW.  vided by bus. Lift tickets are $17 at the LaFortune Information desk.  Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes  HOUR, $650 Week-OWNER DIS­COUNT 813-642-5483  
CALL 4-1339 BETWEEN 7-9 PM.  SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS!  Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free  
LOST: diamond ring--tmusual set- Men and Women needed for free  LEAVE A MESSAGE WITH AN  Parties! Hurry! This will sell out!  O.K. So you're bright and disci­ 
ting---$0mewhere between the  haircuts. Call Cosima's 2n-1875  OFFER.  1-800-678-6386  plined enough to get into NO and  
Linebacker and Turtle Creek on  ·····································  Still seats left on best CANCUN  thrive here. Are you creative and  
Friday Night, 1/21. Extreme senti- Spr. Brk! Will pair up grps. Call 232­ adventurous as well? Could you  
mental value. If you found it,  Campus newspaper carrier/manag- KEY WEST-KEY WEST  71091  Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica!  handle a major in Greek and/or  
please call Adriana 273-4803  er needed immediately for St.  Spring Break Airline Ticket FOR  Fly out of Chicago and spend 8  Latin? (inquiries, 631-7195)  
REWARD OFFERED  Mary's campus, call City News  SALE. From South Bend to Key  days on the beach! We have the  
Service Inc., 232-3205.  West, leaving Thursday, March 3  SPRING BREAK!  best trips & prices! Includes air &  What are you doing for  
and returning on Friday, March 11.  Student Holidays, the nation's  hotel & parties from $3991 1-800­ Spring Break????  
Home delivery newspaper carriers  This ticket was purchased during an  leader in Spring Break vacations  678-6386  Try out the ....  
lost: small silver ring with sunken  needed for morning delivery, car  airfare war and I'm selling it for  offering the ultirnate trip to  APPALLACHIA SEMINAR!  
black patterns-sized for a male.  required. Call City News Service  what I paid for it, which is cheaper  CANCUN, MEXICO!  Slots are still available -inquiry at  
please call x0920 if found.  Inc., 232-3205.  than anything you can find available  The #1 Student Spring Break  Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days  the Center for Social Concerns.  
now!!!!  Destination from $399  oceanview room with kitchen $1191  
Call Steph at 273-6548.  Package includes hotel, flight  Walk to best bars! Includes free dis- 
Help! If you found my dark navy/ black J.Crew coat( size s) w/  SENIOR needs extra GRADUA­TION tickets. Will pay CASH. Call  GARTH BROOKS TICKET  and parties! Organize a small group and travel for FREE!  count card -save $50 on cover charges! 1-800-678-6386  ......................................  
orange lining after the party at 628  Dave @ 273-3008  Sec. 12 Row 4 Seat 5  CALL RICHI1-800-360-TRIP  
Grace Fri, please call Lesley 4867  Call with your offer X4833  So did you get the gist of the puz- 
I'M FREEZING and my life was in the pocket! no ?'s asked!  FOR RENT  FOR SALE-2 basketball tickets for  4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to  zle/ Senior Bar Ads??  
NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225.  Sat's game vs UCLA Call Katy x3850  TOP TEN BELATED AND TOTAL­L Y INDECIPHERABLE QUOTES  adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help  If you want GREAT specials figure them out and uncover the best kept  - 
MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO.  FROM THE GREAT GRACE 40  each other. Mad/legal paid. Please  secret in townlllll  
FOUND: Beagle, 151bs, by Turtle  AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306  FESTIVAL OF DRUNKEN LOVE:  call Jessica or Bob  
Creek Apts, Call Kevin 273-6163  PERSONAL  1/29/94  1-800-864-8385.  Deals! Deals! Deals! Deals! ** ** *•••••••••••••••••••••••* •••• *••••  
LOST: gold cross & chain btwn  10. Hi, I'm (YOUR NAME HERE).  
Rolf's and NOH on 1/30. Call Emily 4570  HOME BASED B &B ALLIANCE  ADOPTION: Loving, financially  Wanna hook up? 9. Dave, put the fire hose down.  SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON­DON & ROME IN 21ST YEAR.  .......................................  
HOMES available for Feb. 18 & 19,  secure couple longs for a newborn  8. It was unbelievable. Still  TRAVEL IN  College of Business  
Lost: Red women's wallet at  Parents weekend. Call271-0989.  to join our family. Please call Nancy  pictures couldn't possibly  IREL,SCOT,ENG,FR,GER,SWITZ,  Administration  
Campus View on Fri. 1/28. Keep  Excellant accomadations.  and Jerry 1-800-272-5810.  do it justice.  & ITALY. COURSES IN PHOTO,  MUGS  
the money, bull need the rest of it.  7. Hey, whoah ... That'll be plenty  BIO,BUS, ECON,HIST,SOC,ITAL­ Only$1011  
If found, please call Katie at x2550.  Junior Parents Weekend -1 room, 2  Help! hitchhiking is dangerous and  for me there, Randy.  IAN,& LIT. MEETING 6:30PM FEB.  On sale in the lobby of  -<  
nights Double Best Inns $160  Mud needs a ride to Dayton for  6. Lick it, slam it, SIJCk it, slam it,  8 CARROLL HALL SMC. FOR  Hayes-Healy:  
Lost: a blue/green Columbia jacket  314-227-6156  JPW (2-18, 19,20) call her at x2574  slam it, suck it again, slam it,  INFO -PROF. BLACK 284-4460  Feb. 3 through Feb. 11  
at Turtle Creek party last Friday- or x2575.  wince, scream.  11:00am-1pm  
you've got my 1.0., the LEAST you could do is give the rest back -Will  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEM  5. You know, in California, we call that dry f****ing.  ********BEAT THE RUSH******** VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly  sponsored by: NO Marketing Club .............................,........_.  
x1062  ALL APPLIANCES  SUPPORT GROUP FOR RAPE  4. Is his zipper up or down??  approaching, and if you want to  
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS  SURVIVORS Open to Notre Dame  3. I'M KRAKATOA!!! IIIII  write a classified to that special  
Lost last Friday (1/28) in the Stepan  232 2595  & St Mary's Students; HELD ON  2. (Miscellaneous slurping sounds)  someone, you can type your ad  
parking lot: Navy blue with purple  CAMPUS; FREE; CONFIDENTIAL  1. How did I get on the couch ...  now. Your message will appear in  
Nike stripe pair of hiking boots. If  Sponsored by Sex Offense  and why am I wearing no  the special Valentine's Observer on  
found please call4-3718. Thanks I  FREE MAID SERVICE '94-95  Services 234-0061 ext. 1308  pants?  Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd  to girl in Knott 237:  
Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B. B. &  AND THE GRANDDADDY OF  floor of Lafortune.  
WANTEDI  sand V-ball courts. 234-3831 or 273-0482  Bookstore Basketball Commissioner applications in  THEM ALL: "Anyone for a menage-a-trois?"  ···································· 2 girls going to Cancun thru College  I not steal phone! I find outside window with many beer cans.  
****SPRING BREAK '94••••  St.Govt.-LaFortune. Due Feb 8.  PEACE to mark matt greg tim rob  Trs want to comb. w/ other grp.  I angry cuz you not recycle  
Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica,  I NEED ROOMMATES!  Frosh/Soph encouraged to apply.  dave brian paul randy jeff mike greg  Help! x284-5525  HULK SMASH PHONEIII  -~  
Florida & Padre! 11 0% Lowest  Summer + 94-95 year  john brian ramon pete dave  Hulk keep bell -like pretty ringing  
Price Guarantee! Organize 15  150/mo fum+util pd-MUST SEE!  FROM YOUR DISTINGUISHED  Bookstore Basketball XXIII-uh huh,  noise but I exchange for new  
friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE  Hickory Village-5 min to campus  am driving to Miami Oh and would  SECTION LEADER .... WE'LL DO IT  can you handle it?  pair purple shorts if you want.  
A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL  273-8369  like a rider. call todd # 1251  AGAIN SOON.  
(800)328-7283.  please contact David Banner  

page 18 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 4, 1994 


University of Notre Dame Summer Session 1994 Course Ust 
The 1994 summer session will begin on Monday, June 20 (enrollment) and end on Wednesday, August 3 (final exams). Some courses-prima­rily in science, mathematics and languages -will begin and end before or after these dates. The summer session Bulletin will contain complete schedule information. The Bulletin will be available at the Summer Session Office (312 Main Bldg.) beginning on Friday, February 11. 
Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 1994 who are eligible to return in the fall-must use DART 1) to register for summer courses and 
2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 24. The DART PIN (per­sonal identification number) for summer will be sent to all continuing students in early March. Course call numbers, along with all other course information, will be published in the summer session Bulletin. 
Aerospace Engineering 

AERO 499. Undergraduate Research 
Mechanical Engineering 

ME 321. Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics ME 327. Thermodynamics ME 334. Fluid Mechanics ME 342. Engineering Economy (London) ME 498. Engineering, Society and the International Community (London) ME 499. Undergraduate Research 
Aerospace/Mechanical Engineering Graduate Independent Study 
AME 598. Advanced Studies AME 599. Thesis Direction AME 600. Nonresident Thesis Research AME 699. Research and Dissertation AME 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
American Studies 

AMST 449. Writing Nonfiction AMST 498. Special Studies AMST 599. Thesis Direction AMST 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Anthropology 

ANTH 405. Biological Anthropology ANTH 490. Archaeological Field School ANTH 491. Ethnographic Field Methods and 
Techniques ANTH 498. Directed Readings 
Architecture 

ARCH 598. Advanced Studies ARCH 700. Nonresident Research 
Art, Art History and Design 
ARHI 252. Art Traditions I 

ARHI 461/561. Twentieth Century Art 1900 to 1960 
ARHI 475/575. Directed Readings in Art History 
ARHI 599. Thesis Direction 

ARHI 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ARST 243/443. Metal Casting/Foundry 
ARST 289/489. Silkscreen 

ARST 311/411. Ceramic Sculpture 
ARST 409/509. Ceramics Studio 
ARST 433/533. Painting Studio 
ARST 435W/535W. Painting Workshop 
ARST 499/599. Special Studies 
ARST 585. Photography Studio 
ARST 589. Printmaking Studio 
ARST 676. Directed Readings 
ARST 696. Thesis Project 
DESN 281 S. Graphic Design I 


DESN 470/570. Design of Eric Gill Workshop 
DESN 496S. Special Studies 
Biological Sciences 

BIOS 294. Neotropical Natural History and 
Management of Central American Resources BIOS 494. Directed Readings BIOS 499. Undergraduate Research 
DART will be available for summer registration from March 14 to 31 and from May 2 to June 24. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during these periods; no appointment times are necessary. 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 24, must complete the standard summer session application/ course selection form. 
Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 1994 will be $142 per credit hour plus 
a $30 general fee. 
BIOS 569. Practical Aquatic Biology 
BIOS 599. Thesis Direction 
BIOS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
BIOS 672. Special Problems 
BIOS 699. Research and Dissertation 
BIOS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Busmess AdmffiruSttation 
ACCT 231. Principles of Accounting I ACCT 232. Principles of Accounting II ACCT 334. Cost Analysis and Control ACCT 371. Financial Accounting Theory and 
Practice I ACCT 476. Introduction to Federal Taxation BA 230. Statistics in Business BA 362. Legal Environment of Business BA 490. Corporate Strategy FIN 231. Business Finance FIN 360. Managerial Economics FIN 361. Business Conditions Analysis FIN 376. Business Financial Management MGT 231. Principles of Management MGT 240. Computers in Business MGT 475. Human Resource Management MARK 231. Principles of Marketing 
Chemical Engineering 
CHEG 499. Undergraduate Research CHEG 599. Thesis Direction CHEG 600. Nonresident Thesis Research CHEG 699. Research and Dissertation CHEG 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Chemistry and Biochemistry 
CHEM 116. General Chemistry 
CHEM 118. General Chemistry 
CHEM 223. Elementary Organic Chemistry I 
CHEM 223L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory I 
CHEM 224. Elementary Organic Chemistry II 
CHEM 224L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory II 
CHEM 477. Directed Readings 
CHEM 499R. Undergraduate Research 
CHEM 599R. Thesis Direction 
CHEM 694. Directed Readings 
CHEM 699R. Research and Dissertation 
CHEM 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences 
CE 498. Directed Studies CE 598R. Advanced Studies CE 599R. Thesis Direction CE 600R. Nonresident Thesis Research CE 698R. Advanced Topics CE 699R. Research and Dissertation CE 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research GEOS 499. Undergraduate Research 
Classical and Oriental Languages and Literatures 
COAJ 200. Intensive Japanese COAJ 340. Contemporary Japanese Culture COCG 200. Intensive Greek COCG 500. Intensive Greek 
COCL 200. Intensive Latin 
COCL 500. Intensive Latin 
COSS 402. Introduction to Syriac Grammar 
COSS 452. Introduction to Syriac Literature 
COSS 500. Introduction to Syriac Grammar 
COSS 500A. Introduction to Syriac Literature 
COSS 500B. Syriac Readings in the Classical Period 
COSS 520. Syriac Readings in the Classical Period 
Communication and Theatre 
GOTH 201. Basics of Film and Television GOTH 205. Introduction to Theatre GOTH 361/561. Introduction to Film and Video 
Production GOTH 410/510. History of Film I GOTH 421/521. Acting Workshop GOTH 460/560. Television Production GOTH 493A. Broadcast Internship (WNDU) GOTH 499. Research for the Advanced 
Undergraduate Student GOTH 598. Special Studies GOTH 599. Thesis Direction GOTH 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Computer Applications 
CAPP 243. Introduction to Computers CAPP 249. Introduction to Basic: Why People Do 
the Things They Do CAPP 315. Management Information Systems CAPP 497. Special Projects CAPP 498. Departmental Tutorial CAPP 499. Special Topics 
Computer Science and Engineering 
CSE 221. Logic Design and Sequential Circuits 
CSE 232. Advanced Programming 
CSE 498. Directed Studies 
CSE 499. Undergraduate Research 
CSE 598. Advanced Studies 
CSE 599. Thesis Direction 
CSE 600. Nonresident Research 
CSE 698. Advanced Topics 
CSE 699. Research and Dissertation 
CSE 700. Nonresident Dissertation 
Economics 

ECON 224. Principles of Economics II 
ECON 225. Introduction to Economics 
ECON 421. Money, Credit and Banking 
ECON 498. Special Studies 
ECON 599. Thesis Direction 
ECON 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ECON 697. Special Topics 
ECON 698. Directed Readings 
ECON 699. Research and Dissertation 
ECON 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Electrical Engineering 
EE 222. Introduction to Electrical Science EE 224. Electrical Circuits I EE 232. Introduction to Electronic Circuits EE 242. Electronics I EE 498. Directed Studies EE 499. Undergraduate Research EE 598R. Advanced Studies EE 599. Thesis Direction EE 600. Nonresident Research 

Friday, February 4, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
MSE 698. Advanced Topics 
EE 698. Advanced Topics EE 699. Research and Dissertation EE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research Engineering Nondepartmental  
EG 498. Research Experience for Undergraduates  
English ENGL 301 W. Writing Short Fiction ENGL 319E. 20th-Century Literary Autobiography ENGL 322. Readings in the Novel ENGL 328A. Children's Literature ENGL 409B. Writing Non-Fiction Prose ENGL 440. Shakespeare's Tragedies ENGL 470. Modern British Literature ENGL 471. Contemporary British Drama ENGL 487. The American Novel ENGL 498. Directed Readings ENGL 500. English for Non-Native Speakers-Section 1 ENGL 540. Shakespeare ENGL 589A. The Puritan Imagination in American Literature ENGL 598. Special Studies ENGL 599. Thesis Direction ENGL 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ENGL 699. Research and Dissertation ENGL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research German and Russian Languages and Uteratures  
GE 101. Beginning German I GE 102. Beginning German II GE 103. Beginning German Ill GE 240. Conversational German GE 500. German Graduate Reading Government and International Studies  
GOVT 343. Political Theory GOVT 400. Contemporary International Problems GOVT 406. Congress and Foreign Policy GOVT 473. The Changing Basis of Global Society GOVT 497. Undergraduate Directed Readings GOVT 599. The~is Direction GOVT 600. Nonresident Thesis Research GOVT 692. Directed Readings-Government GOVT 696. Examination Preparation GOVT 699. Research and Dissertation GOVT 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research History HIST 323. History of the Great Cities of Europe HIST 366. Fun, Fun, Fun? Pursuing Happiness in Modern America HIST 368. Native Americans and Europeans in North America HIST 433. Modern British Monarchy, 1660-1992 HIST 470. America in the 1960s and Beyond HIST 490. Directed Readings HIST 590. Directed Readings HIST 599. Thesis Direction HIST 600. Nonresident Thesis Research HIST 697. Directed Readings HIST 699. Research and Dissertation HIST 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research Program in the History and Philosophy of Science HPS 599. Thesis Direction HPS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research HPS 603. Directed Readings HPS 604. Directed Readings Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies liPS 214. Social Movements: Crossnational and · Transnational liPS 396/496. Directed Readings liPS 427/527. Conflict Resolution: Theory and Practice liPS 429/529. The International Human Rights Movement liPS 445/545. Education, Multiculturalism and Democracy liPS 488/588. Contemporary Issues in International Conflict and Cooperation liPS 501. Colloquium on Cross-Cultural Understanding liPS 530. Peace Studies Laboratory liPS 599. Thesis Direction liPS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research liPS 693. Directed Readings liPS 695. Field Experiences Materials Science and Engineering MSE 225. Science of Engineering Materials MSE 499. Undergraduate Research MSE 598. Advanced Studies MSE 599. Thesis Direction MSE 600. Nonresident Thesis Research  
PSY 341 L. Experimental Psychology 1: Laboratory 


Romance Languages and Uteratures 
LLRO 410. "Mood" and "Voice" in Narrative Fiction ROFR 101. Beginning French I ROFR 102. Beginning French II ROFR 103. Intermediate French
MSE 699. Research and Dissertation ROFR 104. Conversational FrenchMSE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research ROFR 399. Special Studies ROFR 500. French Graduate Reading
Mathematics 

ROFR 597. Directed ReadingsMATH 104. Finite Mathematics 
ROFR 599. Thesis Direction MATH 105. Elements of Calculus I 
ROFR 600. Nonresident Thesis Research MATH 106. Elements of Calculus II 
ROFR 697. Special Studies MATH 126. Calculus II 
ROIT 101. Beginning Italian I MATH 211. Computer Programming and 
ROIT 102. Beginning Italian II Problem Solving 
ROIT 103. Intermediate Italian MATH 499. Undergraduate Reading 
ROIT 104. Conversational Italian MATH 511. Computer Programming and 
ROIT 399. Special Studies . Problem Solving 
ROPO 500. Portuguese Graduate ReadingMATH 553. Topics in Discrete Mathematics 
ROSP 101. Beginning Spanish I MATH 698. Advanced Graduate Reading 
ROSP 102. Beginning Spanish II MATH 699. Research and Dissertation 
ROSP 103. Intermediate SpanishMATH 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
ROSP 104. Conversational Spanish ROSP 399. Special Studies 
Medieval Institute 
ROSP 493. Film and Literature of Latin America 
ROSP 500. Spanish Graduate Reading
Ml 470/570. Medieval Latin ROSP 597. Directed ReadingsMl 497. Directed Readings ROSP 599, Thesis DirectionMl 517. Paleography ROSP 600. Nonresident Thesis ResearchMl 597. Directed Readings 
ROSP 697. Special StudiesMl 599. Thesis Direction Ml 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Science Nondepartmental
Ml 699. Research and Dissertation Ml 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research SC 498. Research Experience for Undergraduates SC 598. Advanced Studies 
Music Sociology
MUS 222. Introduction to Symphonic Music MUS 310/510. Piano 
SOC 102. Introduction to SociologyMUS 311/511. Organ 
SOC 214. Social Movements MUS 313. Guitar 
SOC 220. Social PsychologyMUS 314/514. Voice 
SOC 232. Social Problems MUS 316/516. Cello 
SOC 242. Marriage and FamilyMUS 498. Undergraduate Special Studies 
SOC 249. Introduction to Basic: Why PeopleMUS 598. Special Studies 
Do the Things They Do MUS 599. Thesis Direction 
SOC 307. Issues of Prejudice and Social InequalityMUS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
in the United States SOC 319. Sociology of Sport
Philosophy 

SOC 435. Deviant Behavior 
-~ 
.. 
SOC 498. Directed Readings
PHIL 201. Introduction to Philosophy SOC 599. Thesis DirectionPHIL 215. Education, Multiculturalism and SOC 600. Nonresident Thesis Research
Democracy SOC 655. Directed ReadingsPHIL 221. Philosophy of Human Nature SOC 659. Sociology of EducationPHIL 245. Medical Ethics SOC 699. Research and DissertationPHIL 246. Ethics and Business SOC 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research
PHIL 261. Philosophy of Religion PHIL 498. Directed Readings 
Theology

PHIL 603. Directed Readings PHIL 699. Research and Dissertation 
THEO 200. Foundations of Theology: Biblical/PHIL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Historical-Section 1 THEO 200. Foundations of Theology: Biblical/
Physics 

Historical-Section 2 
THEO 229. Science and TheologyPHYS 221. Physics I THEO 250. Roads to GodPHYS 222. Physics II THEO 255. God Among God's PeoplePHYS 499. Undergraduate Research THEO 498. Directed ReadingsPHYS 598. Special Topics THEO 499. Undergraduate ResearchPHYS 699. Research and Dissertation 
THEO 500. Introduction to Graduate StudiesPHYS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
THEO 500A. Themes and Texts in the Catholic Tradition
Program of Uberal Studies 
THEO 502. Judaism PLS 477. Directed Readings 
THEO 513. Pauline Theology PLS 501. Milton's Paradise Lost 
. THEO 516. The Epistle to the Hebrews PLS 502. St. Bonaventure, The 
THEO 523. Historical Theology-Modern Journey of the Mind to God 
THEO 527. Intensive Course: The Theology of PLS 503. Moral Development Education 
Thomas Aquinas PLS 504. Plato's Republic 
THEO 530. Fundamentals of Systematic Theology PLS 505. Crime and Punishment, Cruel or Usual 
THEO 531. Revelation PLS 506. Teilhard De Chardin, 
THEO 532. Christology The Phenomenon of Man 
THEO 533. Ecclesiology PLS 507. Newman, The Idea of aUniversity 
THEO 534. Doctrine of God PLS 508. Joyce, Dubliners 
THEO 537. Sacramental Theology PLS 509. Gray and Wordsworth 
THEO 539. History of Spirituality THEO 549. Sociology of Religion 
THEO 552. Interpersonal Ethics THEO 560. Liturgical History
Psychology 

PSY 341. Experimental Psychology 1: Statistics THEO 561. Christian Initiation
THEO 562. EucharistPSY 351. Child Development THEO 563. Liturgical Prayer

PSY 354. Abnormal Psychology THEO 564. Liturgical YearPSY 397. Special Studies THEO 565A. Liturgy and Ethics 
PSY 453. Behavioral Pediatrics THEO 566C. FuneralsPSY 487/593. Critical Thinking THEO 572. Ritual Studies 
PSY 497. Special Studies THEO 573L. Comprehensive Review-
PSY 560. Research Methodology Liturgical StudiesPSY 561. Foundations of Counseling THEO 573T. Comprehensive Review-PSY 562. Group Dynamics Theological StudiesPSY 663. Psychopathology THEO 574F. Liturgy and MinistryPSY 678. Seminar in Family Therapy THEO 590C. History of Liturgical Music
PSY 691 A. Advanced Special Issues in Counseling 
THEO 591 A. Liturgical Law
PSY 691 B. Advanced Issues in Statistics and 
THEO 598. Directed ReadingsResearch Design THEO 599. Thesis DirectionPSY 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research THEO 600. Nonresident Thesis Research THEO 699. Research and Dissertation THEO 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
'":'" 
, 
page 20 The Observer • PRO BASKETBALL Friday, February 4, 1994 
Spurs squeak past Cavaliers; Bulls win third straight 

Associated Press 

Even on the worst of nights, David Robinson makes things happen. · 
Harassed into 6-for-22 shooting by a Cleveland defense that refused to let him drive, Robinson passed to Dale Ellis for the winning three-point play with 4.2 seconds left Thursday night as the San Antonio Spurs beat the Cavaliers 98-97. 
Ellis led the Spurs with 31 points. 
Cleveland's Gerald Wilkins missed a wide-open 20-footer from the left baseline as the buzzer sounded, allowing the Spurs to get their second vic­tory in their last 11 trips to Richfield. 
The Cavaliers, leading by a point late in the game, had a chance to go ahead by three when Wilkins rebounded Robinson's miss and was fouled by Dennis Rodman with 10.8 seconds left. Wilkins, however, made only one of two foul shots, putting Cleveland ahead 97-95. 
After a timeout, Robinson took the inbounds pass and passed inside to Ellis, who made a layup as he was fouled by John Williams. 
"We were trying to get the ball inside to David for an easy basket," Ellis said. "They were so aware of me coming off picks for the jump shot, I was able to slip back door for the easy look. David found me wide open underneath the basket." 
Bulls 94, Jazz 85 
B.J. Armstrong scored 20 points, Scottie Pippen added 19 and reserve center Bill Wen­nington scored eight in the final 
6:52 to lead Chicago. 

Karl Malone scored 24 points, but was held scoreless over the final 4:27 as the Jazz was held to its lowest point total of the season and lost at home for only the fifth time. 
Chicago won its third straight, lOth of 11 and fourth of five road games. 
Trail Blazers 126, 
Suns 105 

Harvey Grant scored a sea­son-high 29 points and six other Portland players scored 
in double figures. 

The Blazers built a 23-point lead with four minutes left in the second period and were never seriously threatened thereafter. 
Grant connected on 13 of 19 shots, and Clifford Robinson and Clyde Drexler added 17 points apiece. 
Buck Williams had a game­high 16 rebounds and 11 points for his 20th double-double of the season. 
Rockets 99, Lakers 88 Hakeem Olajuwon scored 10 of his 28 points in the third quarter and the Houston Rockets held ofT a late Los An­geles rally Thursday night to beat the Lakers. Olajuwon also had 15 re­bounds for the Rockets, who have beaten the Lakers five straight times. Otis Thorpe added 20 points and 13 re­bounds. Elden Campbell scored a ca­reer-high 29 points and had 13 rebounds to lead the Lakers. Vlade Divac had 16 points and 15 rebounds, and George Lynch added 14 points and 12 rebounds. 
UCLA 
continued from page 28 
"We'll be ready for them for sure." 
UCLA doesn't appear to have any major weaknesses that the Irish can exploit. 
Speedy point guard Tyus Ed­ney and explosive forwards Ed and Charles O'Bannon are among the nation's best a their positions. 
Senior guard Shon Tarver was the Bruins' leading scorer a year ago and 7 -foot center George Zidek clogs the lane. 
All five starters average in double figures. Ed O'Bannon leads the way with 18.9 points per game and Edney is scoring 14.8. 
Tarver scores 13.5 points per game, Charles O'Bannon aver­ages 12.3 and Zidek is at 10.7. 

Notre Dame, on the other hand, has speedy point guards Lamarr Justice and Admore White and forwards Joe and Jon Ross are among the school's best at their positions. 
Senior forward Monty Williams is the leading scorer and 7 -foot center Matt Gotsch could barely clog a drain. 
Only two Irish players have a double figure scoring average. Williams scores about 25 points per game and Ryan Hoover av­erages 10. 
But Notre Dame has had matchup problems before. Against Duke, Notre Dame was expected to curl up and die. Instead, the Irish had a chance to win in the game's final sec­onds. 
And last year the Irish took the Bruins to the limit before falling 68-65 at Pauley Pavilion. 
Still, UCLA is a heavy favorite, even in the minds of some peo­ple close to Notre Dame. 
Asked if he wished that UCLA had beaten California so they would be unbeaten and No. 1 when they come to the Joyce Center, MacLeod joked, "I don't want them to come in at all." 
But they will come, and Notre Dame will have an opportunity to add another chapter to the legacy molded by Clay. 
As if the Bruins aren't enough for the Irish to worry about, they also have to prepare for Sunday's game against Georgia in Atlanta. 
"We can't focus the whole week on UCLA," MacLeod said. "We also have to spend some time on Georgia." 
Georgia doesn't pose quite 
.--J 

the threat that UCLA does, but Notre Dame is not yet to the point where it can overlook an opponent. 
The Bulldogs are currently 10-9 and 4-4 in the Southeast­ern Conference. 
Sunday's game, part of the Nike Supershow Classic, will be televised on ESPN at 3 p.m. 
Guard Shandon Anderson is the Bulldogs' leading scorer, averaging 14 points per game. 
Center Charles Claxton scores 11 points and grabs eight re­bounds and forward Carlos Strong also averages 11 points per game. 
"It will be difficult playing two games in two days and we won't be able to focus com­pletely on either team," MacLeod said. "But we'll be ready." 
r----------(coupon)----------, 
,.~ 'fl• CAMPUS SHOPPES 1 ,e'lr·,~ 1837So.BendAve. 1 
1 Wee/ely Special ~ ~-· ·q 1
soUTH BEND 

: nFREE TOPPING!n " . . ti~ : 
I ~ y~lI Offer Expires 2/1 1/94. Limit one coupon per customer. I L __ ~~ ;:_a!l.d~!;,.h,.:~ ~!!;':.,J'J;2!,!lO,!!<!!! ,2.r~~~'!;. __ .J 
Join Little Professor Book CenterJar aspecial visitfrom 

Saturday, February 5, '1:00·5:30 p.m. 
Join Little Professor for a special visit with local author Terry Phelps who will be discussing and signing her new book, The Coach sWife: A Notre Dame Memoir. Writing with love for Notre Dame and belief in its ideals, Terry Phelps has made The Coach sWife an unforgettable and unique sports book, one that reminds us of what college sports can and should be. 

Ironwood Plaza North • State Road 23 at Ironwood • South Bend Ph: (219) 277-4488 • Hours: Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00; Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
.....-------~ ---~ -------------~~ ~----.----~--­
Friday, February 4, 1994 The Observer· COLLEGE BASKETBALL page 21 
No.2 North Carolina drills No. 1 Duke Dohrmann ... 
Associated Press 
The first half lived up to the hype. The result was true to form. 
Second-ranked North Car­olina beat No. t Duke 89-78 Thursday night, the fifth con­secutive week the country's top-ranked team has lost. 
The Tar Heels (t8-3, 6-2 Atlantic 
C o a s t 
Conference)broke the Dean Smith game open in the second half with a t5-3 run that gave them a 59-48 lead with t2:35 to play. Duke (15-2, 6-2) never re­covered and couldn't get closer than six points the rest of the way. This was the first time this storied rivalry had a t vs. 2 matchup, but the final margin shouldn't have been shocking. The last four times these teams have met, it was at least a tO­point victory for the home team. It was the first 1-2 matchup since top-ranked UNLV beat Arkansas tt2-l05 on Feb. 10, 1991. The first half Thursday night was something special as Duke took a 40-38 lead into the lock­er room. Except for the Blue Devils' 8­


Brothers 
continued from page 28 
spelling his brother and enter­ing the lineup when coach John MacLeod goes with a tall line­up. 
All will be needed if the Irish hope to compete with the Bru­ins and the O'Bannons on Sat­2 run to open the game, neither team was able to take more than a three-point lead and there were eight lead changes and six ties in the opening 20 minutes. 
The first-half shooting per­centages -Duke was 64 per­cent (16-for-25) and North Carolina was 55 percent (18­for-33) -belied the excellent defense that was being played. Of the 15 players who played in the first half, all but Kevin Sal­vadori of the Tar Heels scored. 
Duke started the second half as it ended the first half with Chris Collins hitting a 3-pointer, his third in a row. Duke man­aged the two-point halftime lead when Collins made two 3­pointers in the final t:38 around one by North Carolina's Derrick Phelps. 
But the Tar Heels continued their torrid shooting while the Blue Devils tapered off. 
At one point Duke went 4:t0 without a field goal. When Grant Hill fmally hit a baseline jumper with 8:03 to play, it cut North Carolina's lead to 68-57, but by then the sellout crowd of 2t,572 was as loud as it has ever been at the Smith Center. 
No. 10 Temple 65, 
Rhode Island 51 

Temple struggled for more than a half against a 20-point underdog before the Owls' Big Three took over. 
Rhode Island was leading 
urday. When Irish fans dream of upsets they think of a colos­sal performance from Monty Williams or a hot shooting day by Ryan Hoover. But in reality, the Irish are only successful when those two happen in ad­dition to a strong performance by the Rosses. This point has been proven. 
Against Duke January 27, the twins combined for their finest 
The shirt that tells the TRUTH! 

NOV. 13, 1994  
I NOTRE DAME I FLORIDA ST.  I I  
NOTRE DAME THE REAL 1993 NATIONAL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONS  colors 100%  

Heavyweight cotton T-Shlrts & Sweatshirts 

BACK 
T-Shlrts Sweatshirts 
$15.112,. $25.9.1 

Phone Orders 
Accepted! and under_add $4.50 310-791-4492 shipping 
1 1l-$50__add $5.50 

VISA·M.C. CHECK 
and ·. 1 11-$100 __add $6.50
Winning systems, Inc. 3805 PCH, Suite 101 hamlling ·100.01-$200 _add $7.50
11 Torrance, CA 90505 Ill and over-add 
33-3t with 13:28 remaining before Eddie Jones, Rick Brun­son and Aaron McKie carried lOth-ranked Temple to a victo­ry Thursday night. 
"That team always gives us trouble," Temple coach John Chaney said. 
The Rams have beaten the Owls in five of their last lt meetings, including twice on Temple's home court. 
Jones led Temple with 23 points and also had six steals. Brunson had 19 points and eight assists, and Aaron McKie had 15 points and tO rebounds as Temple (15-2) boosted its Atlantic 10 record to 8-1. 
Andre Samuel led Rhode Is­land (7-tO, 3-6) with t8 points. No. 11 Massachusetts 62, 
Florida State 58 The Massachusetts Minute­men lived up to their nickname again. After playing catchup with scrappy Florida State for most of the game, No. tt Mas· sachusetts erased a tO-point deficit in the closing minutes to down the Seminoles. "It was a great win. I still don't know how we won it but I'm pleased," Massachusetts coach John Calipari said. "We managed to make the plays at the end. "If we want to continue to win, we've got to come out of the gate better. We can't be a top team by coming from be-
game of the season. They com· bined for 8 of lt shooting from the floor and Joe grabbed eight rebounds. They also forced Duke center Cherokee Parks to miss 6 of 9 shots. 
The reason Notre Dame near­ly ended Duke's 87-game non­conference winning streak at home was mostly a large dose of Williams but also a dash of Ross, which has always been a bitter ingredient for Irish fans. 
"I am concerned about what my teammates and the coaches think and that is it. I am not concerned with what those peo­ple ,think," Jon said of his crit­ics. 
Notre Dame fans don't just think it, they have plastered in­sults across the campus over the last four years. The annual Bookstore Basketball Tourna­ment is the best example, the epicenter of Ross ridicule. 
"Two Rosses don't make a right," "Mr. & Mrs. Ross and three other guys who can't 
hind in the second half all the time." 
Massachusetts (17 -3) did it by limiting Florida State (9-8) to just one basket and only three points in the last 9 minutes, erasing a 55-47 deficit. 
A key for the Minutemen was a disqualifying fifth foul against Florida State center Andre Reid with eight minutes to play. 
"That was a relief," said Lou Roe, who had t5 points for Massachusetts. 
"That allowed them to make the big plays on the inside," Florida State coach Pat Kennedy said. 
Florida State led 36-32 at halftime, but was undone by poor shooting in the second half. The Seminoles were only 6-of"28 in the second half after going 17 -of-28 in the first half. 
No. 25 Cincinnati 69, 
Memphis St. 64 No. 25 Cincinnati failed to get the blowout it predicted Thurs­day night but managed to save face as Dontonio Wingfield ral­lied the boastful Bearcats to a victory over Memphis State. Wingfield scored seven of his 28 points in a closing 16-2 spurt that gave Cincinnati (15­5, 3-2 Great Midwest) only its second lead of the game. Mem­phis State (6-tt, 1-6) led almost the entire first half and opened a 13-point lead early in the sec­ond. 
stand the Ross twins," and "The World Trade Center, The Ross Twins, and another unac­counted for national disaster," were a few unflattering team names that surfaced during last year's tourney. 
And the Keenan Review has always set aside a small portion of the show to criticize the twins. 
"It (the criticism) is part of the responsibility of being an athlete at Notre Dame," said Joe. "Football players and basketball players all have to go through it." 
People think of the brothers as synonyms on the court. But they are quite different players. 
Joe is clearly more physical. He has gained 35 pounds since his freshman year and has im­proved his rebound average from under one a game during his sophomore year, to 5.6 this season. 
Offensively, however, he has never developed. He may finish 
continued from page 28 
couldn't beat the Bruins in any­thing. 
• 
Go with the Irish because of the recent handgun law passed in the Indiana House of Representatives. Recently pa­roled UCLA linebacker Jamir Miller would not be allowed within ten miles of the state line. Who knows what com-pli­cations the basketball team may run into? 

• 
Do it out of respect for Lou Holtz. Notre Dame was nice enough to choose Holtz over Bruin football coach Terry Donahue. Think of all the John Hancock Bowl appearances Notre Dame would have missed out on. 

• 
The Irish should be your choice for monetary reasons. UCLA will be in debt to Madalene O'Bannon for years, whereas the Irish got a two for one deal with the Ross twins. You'd think with the recent rise in education -and the spiraling economy in California that the Bruins would watch their wal­lets. 

• 
Lastly, do it because stranger things have happened. Notre Dame's Dwight Clay ended UCLA's 88-game win­ning streal in t974. and when the two team's last met at the Joyce Center, the Irish pulled a miracle upset. 


You see... Notre Dame is the place where dreams come true. . . Or is that Disneyland? 
his career without a double digit scoring game. 
Jon is averaging less than four points a game for his ca­reer and his rebounds have slipped as his minutes have de­creased. 
He isn't as physical as his brother and tends to fade out­side at times when his size is needed near the basket. 
But this is the card that the Irish have been dealt and at times it is enough. 
"I think the Duke game showed what we were capable of," said MacLeod. "It showed that we weren't giving up." 
Notre Dame fans have all but written off this season, and the Rosses with it. But will some legacy be left by the brothers Ross? Maybe Saturday, maybe against the O'Bannons. It would be a fitting ending. 
The best brother tandem to hit college basketball bested by two little horses teetering at the supermarket. 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 6 1 0 A.M. -5 P.M. ADMISSION $3 
AT: THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 51 5 DIXIEWAY NORTH US 3 I -33 NORTH 
MUSIC COLLEGIBLES FROM THE 
SO'S • 60'S • 70'S • 80'S • 90'S LP's-CD's-45's -I 2 inch singles -imports posters -magazines -books -concert photos -videos t-shirts -cassettes -pins-patches and much morel 
FOR DEALER INFO CALL BlAIN AT (616) 375-2776 DOOR PRIZES 
SOUNDS UNLIMITED PRODUTION 
..
-
~ 

---~----------­~--~-­~­---~ -~-------­ 
page 22  The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL Friday, February 4, 1994  

Smith seeks rest after Super year 
By JOHN McFARlAND 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas Not a bad year for Emmitt Smith. 
He won his third straight NFL rushing title, and his Dal­las Cowboys won the the Super Bowl for the second straight season. 
Then there were those other things -the Super Bowl MVP award, the NFL MVP award an.d a spot in the Pro Bowl. 
Smith, who did all that while missing the first two games and playing with an injured shoul­der through the playoffs, even threw in a trip to Disneyworld for good measure. 
''I've had a magical season," Smith said at a news confer­ence after returning from the Florida theme park. "A lot of people will never be able to realize what it means to me because I'm not going to be able to describe it to you." 
All of it was nice, he said, but without the Super Bowl vic­tory, it didn't matter much. 
"I think winning the Super Bowl makes everything ... it makes my whole season worth­while," he said. 
"It would have been very dis­appointing, even with all the things that I've done through­out the season, to not win the Super Bowl." 
Smith was asked whether 
the latest issue of "Sports Illus­trated" didn't best summarize his season, labeling him Su­perman. 
"I don't feel like I'm Super­man, I just feel like I went out and did my job the best I could," he said. "It's been a miracle season for myself." 
Now he's ready for a little peace and quiet. 
He said his shoulder, seri­ously injured during the Cow­boys' 16-13 victory over the New York Giants on the last day of the regular season, isn't hurting too much. 
"They (doctors) say let it rest, and they'll evaluate it in about two or three weeks," Smith said, adding he's experi­

Ryan gets command again in Phoenix 
By MEL REISNER 
Associated Press 

TEMPE, Ariz. The punch is past, and Bud­dy's back as a boss in the NFL. 
A month after slugging a coaching colleague during Houston's final regular-season game, Buddy Ryan was hired Thursday as coach and general manager of the Phoenix Cardi­nals. 
"You've got a winner in town," said Ryan, the Oilers defensive coordinator last sea­son. "We're looking forward to winning. So today we start." 
since Larry Wilson resigned Dec. 14. 
"I have said we want to reach the next level," said Bidwill, who met with Ryan for two days before striking a deal. "Buddy Ryan has been to the next level. I anticipate he will take us there." 
Ryan, who turns 60 this month, is entering his 25th year as an NFL coach. He takes over a team that has not been to the playoffs in a non-strike year since 1975 and has not won a playoff game since 194 7. 
"If there are any real good 


Ryan, who coached the 
going to want to play for BuddyPhiladelphia Eagles from 1986­

Ryan," Ryan said. 90 and led them to the playoffs 
Ryan apparently became the three times, signed a four-year Cardinals' top choice after the 

contract. He replaces Joe Washington Redskins hired 
Bugel, who was fired Jan. 24 
Dallas offensive coordinator after a 7-9 season in which he 
Norv Turner, who reportedlyfailed to deliver on an ultima­
was offered the Phoenix job o tum by owner Bill Bidwill to 

coach and general manager for produce a winner. 
$700,000 a year.The hiring comes as some­
"I really didn't know that thing of a surprise given that they didn't get him, and I don't Ryan's stock was believed to 
really care," said Ryan, whose have dropped considerably af­
salary was not disclosed. "I ter he punched offensive coor­mean, I knew Norv when he dinator Kevin Gilbride during a 
was a receivers coach with the nationally televised game. 
Rams. I think I've got a better But Bidwill was undeterred 
job than he's got." by this latest run-in with a col­
He was out of football for league and gave him the addi­
two years after being fired bytional job of general manager, 
Eagles owner Norman Braman, the first time the Cardinals 
who was unhappy with Ryan'shave put one man in the dual 
tirades and the team's inabilityrole. The Cardinals had been 

to get past the first round of the without a general manager 
playoffs. 

"Luxury Living You Can EnJ·oy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance! 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE


-. 
-~ 
• ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
, 

NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 

The Observer • WOMEN'S BASKETBALL page 23 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

Freshman guard Jeannine Augustin and the Irish head to Chicago. 
............................................ 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I • I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
STILL NEEDED FOR JPW: 
\vAITERS AND \VAITRESSES FOOD SERVICE HELPERS 
:SHIFTS AVAILABLE SAT FEB 19 SUN FEB 20 
LO\VER LEVEL -SOUTH DINING HALL CATERING E~1PLOY~1ENT OFFICE OFFICE HOURS: MON 11-4P~1 TUES -FRI 10A~·1-4:30P~·1 SPECIAL TI~1E SAT-10A~1-2PM 
Ill 
::z: 
1­

HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1994-95 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 25, 1994 
.. 
First place Irish travel to Loyola 
By DYlAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
The surging Notre Dame 
women's basketball team will 
travel to the University of Loy­
ola to face a slumping 
Ramblers team this Saturday in 
a game that will mark the first 
of six straight road games for 
the Irish. 
The Irish women, 13-5 over­
all, now find themselves in sole 
possession of first place in the 
Midwestern Collegiate 
Conference, with a 4-1 record 
in the MCC. Loyola, owners of a 
5-12 overall record, is strug­
gling this season, having lost 
their last two games and own­
ing only one win in MCC play. 
While the two teams seem to 
be heading in markedly differ­
ent directions, Loyola's offense 
is not to be counted out. All five 
of the Rambler's starters are 
averaging in double figures, 
with guards Clare Molloy and 
Lori Esser at the forefront with 
13.2 points per game. Notre Dame's offense is 
SPORTS BRIEFS Notre Dame Rugby Club: 
Practice begins at 9.p.m. at Loftus tonight, Wednesday Feb. 2. 
Ketsu-ka self defense class: 
Meetings are on Tuesday and Thursday from 6:30-8 p.m. in Rockne 219 and Sundays from 
Munich $515* Milan $585* 
•Airfares are roundtrip from Chicago. Restrictions apply, taxes are not included and fares are subject to change. Call for other worldwide destinations. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 

Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 

capable of countering anything the Ramblers may throw out, however, as they lead the MCC in scoring offense with 7 5. 3 points per game. The Irish also lead in scoring margin (+10.5), free throw percentage (75.4), three-point field goal percent­. age (36.6), and rebound margin 
(+10). 
They have also been sharp 
on defense, holding their oppo­
nents to an MCC second-best 
64.8 points per game. 
Individually for the Irish, freshman phenom Beth Morgan is leading the Irish with 16.3 points per game, while junior Letitia Bowen leads the team in rebounds with 9. 7 a game. Senior point guard Kara Leary leads the MCC in free throw percentage with an 85.5 per­cent mark, good enough to rank her 14th nationally. As a team, the Irish are second in the nation in free throw per­centage with a 75.7 percentage, behind only Bowling Green. 
Whether all these impressive numbers will translate into a 
2-3:30 in Rockne 301. 
Registration fee is $18 in 
advance. For more information 
call RecSports. 
Bookstore Basketball 
Commissioner applications 
are available now in the stu­
dent government office in 
LaFortune, room 204. Due Feb. 
8. Freshmen and sophomores are encouraged to apply. Attention Skiers: Last week to sign up for the spring break ski trip to Jackson Hole, WY. Contact Dave Zidac at 273­3105 . 
,!) (\,
{i, A.ll proceeds go to the ..0 
,1) l\·1ara Fox fund <':~ 
~ ;..J,#--Mh~ }; 
win at Alumni Gym this Satur­day night is the only question that remains to be answered. Irish head coach Muffet Mc­Graw, Notre Dame's all-time winningest coach, is not about to concede a victory over the Ramblers. 
"The thing about Loyola," said McGraw, "is that they play very well at home. Butler, who beat us at our home court, only beat them by three at Alumni. While they have a very talented starting five, we have more depth as a team, and we hope to be able to wear them down. They are a very young team, and are improving with every game." 
This game is important to the Irish, who seek to increase their lead in the MCC and earn a first round bye in the MCC tournament. 
"This game is very important to our team," said McGraw. "We would like to stay in charge of the MCC, and conse­quently earn a bye in the first round of the MCC tournament." 
The Ultimate Frisbee team: 
Practice Monday, Feb. 7 at Loftus at 11:15. All are wel­come to come whether you've come out before or not. There will be a tournament on Feb. 26 so we encourage interested players to show up. For info call Tom at 233-2316 or Dave at X3410. Women's lacrosse: Practice at Loftus on Feb. 7 at 10:00 
p.m. If you have questions or cannot attend, please call Alli­son Martin at X2377 or Molly Donil.is at 273-6539. 

.... 
..... 
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS 
Fencers head east with confidence 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sporn Writer 
Things just don't get any easi­er for the Notre Dame fencing team. 
After defeating defending NCAA champ Columbia last weekend in 
­New York along with St. John's and Rutgers, the Irish travel back east to Massachusetts to fence anoth­er slew of east Mike DeCicco schools head­lined by an always tough Princeton squad. 
However, when your on a winning streak things seem to fall into a more positive light. 
"Our team spirit is at an all­time high right now," said men's head coach Mike DeCi­ceo. 
"That's a credit to all the cap­tains for pulling each team together." · 
This spirit has also bred hard work on the team. The Irish has endured some tough prac­tices, but the effort is paying off in all the meets. 
"As a unit, this team may not have the skilled talent that it has had in recent years," said DeCicco. 
"However, each fencer is working very hard to close the gap in that department." 
So far, this gap has been sealed as the Irish sport a 5-0 record dating back to two early meets in November. Each suc­ceeding meet has provided a different challenge, but each time the Irish stepped up to meet these tests. 
Last week a team effort was needed in order to ensure the 
Saint Mary's hopes to break streak 
By KIMBERLY BERO 
Sporn Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team will strive to overcome a three-game losing streak when they play Carroll College tomor­row at 2 p.m. in 
Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Belles, whose record stands at 4-10, dropped their third straight 


g a m eM . W d
00

W e d n e s d a y arvm night against the University of Chicago. 
"This game against Carroll College gives us a good chance to break our three-game losing streak," said head coach Mar­vin Wood. 
The Belles will be relying on their four stalwart players, se­nior Anne Mulcahy, sophomore Jennie Taubenheim, freshman Katy Lallie, and freshman Sarah Kopperud. 
However, Carroll College has its own arsenal of power. 
Carroll's key player, Dana Demuri, is ranked nationally in both scoring and shooting per­centages. 
"Demuri is outstanding. She definitely poses a challenge," said Wood. 
In preparation for Demuri and the rest of the Carroll of­fense, the Belles have been con­centrating on both their timing and defense in practice. 
"The girls have been working hard and enjoying themselves," noted Wood. "The team chem-

BILLY wants to thank Red and all the SMCs and oomers that came to the birthday Barn Bash 
t 

win. 
"Last week showed that dual meet fencing is truly a team ef­fort," noted DeCicco. "Against Columbia our foil team really shined, while against St. John's our epee and sabre teams led us." 
Besides Princeton, other teams the Irish face this week­end include North Carolina, Wellesley, Brandeis, MIT, Har­vard, and Air Force. 
Women's foil and epee will compete Saturday at Brandeis, while the men take on Air Force and Harvard at Cambridge. The teams will switch sites on Sunday as women's foil fences at Harvard and the men will face Princeton at Brandeis. 
"We will once again compete against the best and see if we are really as good as we were at St. John's," said DeCicco. 

istry is great and their enthusi­asm is at its highest point this season." 

'f 1993 The Olive Gorden Restaurants. 

HERE'S ACOURSE THAT COMBINES ITALIAN AND ECONOMICS. 

) I 
_.,.... ...... 
.. ·' 

Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dome or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your I D and we'll give you all-you­con-eat spaghetti with your choice of marinara, tomato or meat sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden solod ond _,. 
worm garlic breodsticks. It's all just $5.95. And you don't have to be.o moth major to figure out that that's a great deal. 
-,J"'trC,~, ~. f_
0/,•~,., • 
~ 

ITALIAN Hf <...,J.:\IIf<·\'-' I 
I
WHERE i\LLTHE REST Of t~·AI Y Is \'C)t 'RS.' 
I 
• Opposite University Park Mall, 277-6503. 
___J . I 
'-------------------------------. -­
The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
Hockey faces powerful Miami 
By TIM SHERMAN son slump, the offense is sput­their stretch run. The defense Spans Writer tering. Although the Irish have and goalie have been solid as of had many scoring oppor­late. With Greg Louder once They've played the best, now tunities, the goals have been again in control, the defense it is time to play the rest. scarce. can worry about just doing However. in the CCHA, the Part of the recent trouble has their job, and not be concerned rest are always great hockey been Michigan goalie Steve with who is behind them. teams. Shields, far and away, the Despite some recent line-up 
After playing two of their past nation's best, but Notre Dame shuffling, the defense has three games against top-ranked lacked a consistent scoring seemingly jelled. Michigan, the Notre Dame punch before facing the They will need to continue hockey team hosts two impor­Wolverines. their strong play against the tant conference games against Earlier in the season, the streaking Redskins. Miami has the 20th-ranked Redskins of team's freshmen had been pro­won eight consecutive games. Miami University (OH) on viding a lot of points. Their Goalies Kevin Deschambeault Friday and Saturday night at production, though, has notice­and Richard Shulmistra play in the JACC. ably declined. A major reason front of a defense that has al­
This weekend starts the cru­for this could be the fatigue fac­lowed just ten goals in their cial stretch run for the Irish in tor. Many were not accus­past four games. which they hope to move up to tomed to playing so many On the other side of the ice, at least sixth place by regular games at such a high level. the Redskins are led by sopho­season's end. This would give Friday's game will be just more Kevin Adams and senior the Irish home-ice advantage in their second in two weeks. center Shawn Penn. Adams the first-round of the CCHA This break should give the leads then squad in points, playoffs. team, especially the frosh, a while Penn has tallied the most 
Right now, the Irish are in chance to regain their legs. goals. eighth place, but with a sweep Look for skaters such as Tim The Redskins defeated the this weekend, they could vault Harberts, Terry Lorenz, and Irish in their previous meeting two spots. Brian McCarthy to find their 3-1. These games mean a lot If this is to be the case, Notre scoring touch again. more and should prove to be 

Courtesy of Miami Sports lnfonnation 

Dame's offense has to produce If they, or other Irish skaters, highly competitive, as both
Miami (Ohio) goalie Richard Shulmistra leads a defense which has 
more goals. While the defense step forward, Notre Dame will clubs are battling to move up in 
allowed only ten goals in its last ten games. 
has recovered from its mid-sea-be in a solid position to make the standings. 
Investigators continue to examine Harding case 
ByBOBBAUM Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 

As Tonya Harding skated Thursday, investigators con­sidered whether she hindered prosecution by initially lying about what she knew of the at­tack on rival Nancy Kerrigan. 
The U.S. Figure Skating As­sociation, meanwhile, was pro­ceeding with steps that could lead to revoking Harding's membership for unethical con­duct. But that process could drag on far past the Lilleham­mer Games, and the U.S. Olympic Committee wasn't commenting on what action it might take in the meantime. 
Asked as she finished a prac­tice skate what she thought of suggestions that she should remove herself from the Olympic team, Harding replied: "I don't listen to what other people say." 
Harding, who has not been charged, admitted to authori­ties that she lied in the first part of her 10 1/2-hour inter­view at FBI headquarters Jan. 18. 
She first told investigators she knew nothing about any involvement of her ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly. in the plot. She changed her story and im­plicated him only after one of her interrogators warned her it was illegal to lie to law en­forcement authorities about her knowledge of a crime. 
Under Oregon law, a person hinders prosecution by deceiv­ing authorities to prevent the apprehension of someone who has committed a felony. 
Norm Frink, Multnomah County deputy district attorney, said a New York Daily News re­port that Harding will be charged with hindering prose­cution next week was incorrect. 
"I am not excluding the pos­sibility that the grand jury might choose to return hinder­ing prosecution charges against someone in this case," Frink said. "But at this point, it's mere speculation and no final decision has been made." 
Four people have confessed to plotting the attack on Kerri­gan to knock her out of the U.S. Figure Skating Championships, and thus enhance Harding's chances of winning. They ini­tially were charged with con­spiracy. Harding also could face that charge if the grand jury determines it has sufficient evi­dence that she participated in ward after her return to Port­land, when she said she learned people around her were involved. 
NBC News reported Thurs­day that Harding has been asked to voluntarily submit a handwriting sample and fin­gerprints to the FBI. 
The FBI is examining scraps of paper found in a Portland restaurant trash bin that could back up Gillooly's claim that Harding took part in the plot. 
The garbage included an envelope addressed to Gillooly and notepaper scribbled with doodles and the words "Tunee Can Arena, Cape Cod" on one 

Lunch 
Hotdogs 12 oz................49¢ 

Yogurt Lunchmeat 
Grade A, 8 oz., variety.......29¢ ..........................29¢ 
Toastems Saltines cinn., straw.•••••••.•••••••..89¢ 16 oz................39¢ 
Waffles Lettuce 
15 oz...................99¢ ..........................49¢ 
Vegetable Pies 
White Bread 
7oz. 
20 oz................69¢

~-~-~-~-~-~~~--~-~-~-~~Sge¢ 
3-Pak Juices
29¢

Pecan Swirls 
variety...................69¢

8 pk ..................... 49¢ Dinner 
~.~~~i-~?~ ............29¢ ~~~c~z~.~~-~~~25¢ 
Canned Vegetables Can of Pop 16 oz................25¢ 12 oz................15¢ Banquet Dinners 
9.5 oz...............89 

HOURS: M-Th 9 a.m. -7 p.m. Fri 9 a.m. -8 p.m. 

~ 
Sat 9 a.m. -6 p.m. Edison 
ALDI
Sun closed 
CASH ONLY 

the plot. page and "Tony Kent Arena, 
Kerrigan was struck above Cape Cod" on another. the right knee Jan. 6 in Detroit, Gillooly has told investiga­where she was preparing for tors that Harding made tele­the national championships. In phone calls to pin down Kerrigan's absence, Harding Kerrigan's practice schedule at went on to win the competition. Tony Kent Arena in 
Harding has said she had Massachusetts, where an earli­nothing to do with the plot but er attempt to attack Kerri~;;an admits she did not come for-was aborted. 
SI•IUNH IUU~AU I•i\NA1Ii\ (~ITY lli~A(~JI, I~I.OIUUi\ 
•Shell Island Party Cruise s •Beach Bonfire Parties 
650' Gull Beach Frontage -0 Tiki Beach Bar!Yolleyball 2Outdoor Swimming Pools . Sailboals, lelskis & Parasails 1 Indoor Healed Pool ~ Karaoke Beach Party Restaurant, 2 & 3 Room Suiles ;. •. .• Area Discount Coupons 
SANDPIPER-BEACON RESERVATIONS FROM $104 PER WEEK 
17 403 Fronl Beach Road PER PERSON ranama Cily Beach. FL 32413 1-800-488-8828 4 PERSON OCCUPANCY 
l .• 
21st Annual Summer Program 
ND-SMC 
l
Students 
1 
I 
LONDON ROME l 
May 18-June 17 June 12-July 11 Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, Germany, and
Scotland and France Switzerland 
Courses offered in BIOLOGY, BUSINESS & ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN, LITERATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, SOCIOLOGY 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING-February 8 
~·
6:30 pm Carroll Hall 
• Free Pizza • Past students and faculty participants will be present. For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
--~-~-~ 
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 4, 1994 
Notre Dame track hosts Meyo Invitational 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sporn Writer 
One of the most underrated and under-publicized teams at Notre Dame will get the chance to showcase its talents against some of the nation's best this weekend. The men's and women's track teams host the prestigious Meyo Invitational meet this Saturday afternoon at Loftus. 
"The meet is individually ori­ented and our kids will get to compete against some of the nation's top talent," said Notre Dame coach and meet director Joe Piane. 
Twenty schools, including Big 10 powers Michigan, Purdue and Iowa have entered athletes in the various track and field events. Other major competi­tors include Illinois St., Tulane, Eastern Michigan, DePaul and Marquette. 
"It's an early season race, so it's an opportunity for kids to get an early seeding time for NCAA's and IC4A's," explained Piane. "This is our biggest meet thus far, and we have another big one later this month." 
"There will be some good competition and it will be inter­esting to see if someone can compete and push our guys," commented Michigan head coach Jack Harvey. 
The feature race of the meet will probably be the men's Meyo Mile. Michigan will have two of the best in the country entered in the race. Freshman Kevin Sullivan, a semifmalist in the World Championships sum­mer, and sophomore Scott McDonald will compete against defending champion John Warren of Houston. Warren ran a 4:00 flat last year to win the race. 
Notre Dame senior John Coyle, who ran a personal best 
4:05 last year, expects this year's race to be even faster. 
"It's definitely possible that someone will go under 4 min­utes," said Coyle. "I hope to tag along and beat one of them in the last lap." 
"It's one of the best fields I've ever been in," continued Coyle. "This is the first highly competi­tive meet for the whole team and we're looking forward to running well." 
Other feature races for the men include the BOO meters, high jump, pole vault, 55 m, 200 m and 3,000 m. 
"The BOO will be an outstand­ing event," exclaimed Piane. 
The favorite in the event is Eastern Michigan's Tom Asinga, an Olympic semifinalist in Barcelona. Notre Dame's Jeff Hojnacki won the 1000 meters last week at the Midwest Collegiate Conference Championships and expects to run well this weekend. 
In the high jump, Irish senior Todd Herman will face his toughest competition of the sea­son thus far. Herman has jumped above 7'0 throughout his career and will have to excel this weekend in order to qualify for the NCAA's. The other favorites include Michigan's John Rice and a contingency of Tulane jumpers who have jumped 7'3. 
''I'm worried more about myself rather than the other competitors," commented 
Irish assistant moves up to the NFL 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

The Cincinnati Bengals filled out their largest-ever coaching staff Thursday by hiring Notre Dame assistant Joe Wessel to 
be defensive line coach. 
Wessel, 32, spent the past three years at Notre Dame, where he coached line­

backers and Joe Wessel defensive backs. Prior to that he was an assis­tant for six years at Louisiana State. The hiring completed a reshuffiing of coach Dave Shu­la's staff precipitated by the surprise resignation of defen­sive coordinator Ron Lynn 11nd 
BED 'N BREAKFAS REGISTRY 
Rooms in private homes for: JPIJI, BWE & GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOTBAll. and ~ Special NDISMC WEEKENDS 
(219) 291-7153 

FORMAL WEAR RENTALS & ALTERATIONS 
JUNIORS: We offer the best selection, best quality & best service at the best price in town $10 off any tuxedo in stock with this ad 
prices $55-$75 (offer ends February 18)
..,. 
Since 
1980 
ff}~:I:II:J 

Town & Coumry Shopping Ccmer, 2452 Miracle Lane, Mishawaka, ln. 

Herman. "The competition will be good and having people there who can jump will make me jump higher." 

Two Notre Dame competitors are entered in the pole vault. Junior Dan Grenough and 

the availability of former New York Jets coach Bruce Coslet. 
Shula had ended 1993 think­ing that his staff would remain intact despite a 3-13 season. Instead, he ended up with five 
French Film Festival (; February 6-10 (I 
.,,, M111 •nd • tr•dll  sunday at a:oo  
.7oo 23eaul{uf for You  Monday at 9:00  
lUesday at 9:00  

yrano de Bergerac wednesday at 9:00 ft ft/'\1'\t niKITft Thursday at 9:00 
ll shows at Cushing.J..I
eception to follow. 
miDTOXIlUIUD 

freshman David Gerrity will go up against a pair of 1B' foot vaulters entered from other schools. 
In the men's sprints, fresh­man football player Randy Kinder and senior football 
.-.H •I•'" l•i: • j'j~ • 
THE~·­

UP THERE IPGJ 
2:oo, 4:30, 7:oo, D:3o 

WAYNESDD2 
You'll laugh again! 

You'll hurl again!! JPG-13J 
2:45,5:00, 7:30, 10:00 

Madeleine Stowe 
1:45,4:30,7:30, 10:00 [ID 
standout Clint Johnson will compete along with freshman Anthony Swiney. 
The 3,000 race features Notre Dame senior cross country All­American Mike McWilliams. 
"The guys are fresh and there should be some very interesting races," said Pian e. 
As for the women, the compe­tition will be just as intense. The women's distance races will all be good events. The mile, 5,000m, 3,000m, and BOOm feature some of the nation's best talent. The women's 55 m hurdles will also be an outstanding race between 3 Notre Dame runners. In the 5,000m, Michigan's Molly McClimon is the favorite, but Notre Dame junior Sara Riley will miss the meet due to injury. 
The BOOm showcases indoor and outdoor All-American Jill Stamison, formerly of Western Michigan. In the women's 55m hurdles, Irish juniors Monica Cox, Lisa Junek and sophomore Erica Peterson will battle for top honors. "I've got a pretty positive outlook," said Junek. "My goal is to break Bseconds." 
"Everyone is really excited," continued Junek. "We're look­ing forward to some tough indi­vidual competitions and we're counting on doing well so we can show everybody our indi­vidual talents." 
Other Notre Dame women to watch include freshmen Heidi Alton and Alison Howard. "Our kids are running very well," realized Piane. "We're looking forward to some good things this weekend." 
The meet will run from about 12-5 PM on Saturday. 
1
··.!;l:f;: <I~..(}&!o•or;;"n, Jll£~ , 
MRS BE.f'llL
• 
ONPOPCORN&DRINKS'
D0 UBTFIRE 
..r , ROBIN 
r7 ~-:' ~ WILLIAMS 
,.~ ~~tJ 1.,,1 
1:30, 4:15, 7:15, 9:45 
JACK LEMMON JPG-131 WALTER MATTHAU 1:15, 4:15, 8:45, 9:00 

new coaches, including a new offensive coordinator and defensive coordinator. 
Lynn resigned while the Bengals' staff was in Palo Alto, California. 

,BeetOO\en~ ~oo1 p"1 r~~~Au r"~ 
[p(;l 
t:oo, 3:oo, 5:15,7:15,9:15 L-.J I 1:3o. 4:45,7:15, 9:45 
--·----• ----.. -•-···----------·---• • •• .. •••~•• ••• • • • a •• a • • • • • I e • •• r WI It • Wl..•.wt.• t ....Y.f.I.1.1-'-•-•.-_,~1'..J' .....~.t..I...U..J., 
page 27

Friday, February 4, 1994 The Observer • TODAY 
SPELUNKER 
II'S WIERD. I G.O n\1<~ l"lON'ffiS WrfllOVT A DA'Tt, AND S\JDDE.NL~ IN lliE: 
LAST 1WO DA'{":> "I'VE BW ASI<E.D 0\lf 5 TIME":> 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
QV\T IT. 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 

l't-\ ~~ IJGLi AT W..'ST SOON'e.R OR lii.T'ER, llti'Lt. MM;<;ol '(o\J 1-{f..~t. E.'IER'\01'-l£ FII-U..":> 
Wln-ILUt<'?'( 1\\t. CO\lRA<;£. 
FOR. nit>.\. 

GR.t>.'-J'\ FOR To ~l>t<\11 11. 

BRII.\~5' 
.. 
-~-+c. vv~ 
-~~ 
DAVE KELLETT 


1 Smooth wood Verdugo 67 Full of vim and 36 Borden bovine vinegar
s Treat like a 
37 "Cool"

pariah &&Word to a 39 Gounod opera refusenik
9 Pin place 
41 Marion's finish 

69 Thanksgiving
14 Mixed bag 
42 Island crooner 

side dishes 15 "Self" starter 44 Slangy $100 bill 1& "Die 46 Sniggler's 
DOWN
Fledermaus" wiggler maid 47 Stay tuned, 1 Lays down the 17 Stay tuned, Part 3 lawn Part 1 50 Ankh's cross 2Much 20 Writer Danielle 51 Midwest Indian 3 Not quite Bo 52 Disparages Derek
21 She shares the wealth 58 Ogden Nash's 4 "No kidding!" feet s-Tomeand
22 Cut (off) 
62 Stay tuned, Principe
24-gallop 
Part4 & Hollywood 1 0 25 Stay tuned, condemner:
64 Signal to slow Part2 Abbr.
65 Unguarded, in 34 "O.K., Ahab" football 7 60's spy plane a Biblical 950-year-old ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Gulf of Mexico pirate .;:-r~;.e.+=-1 10 Cute 
~:7t:::-t:-Ei 11 Aka Edson Arantes do Nascimento 
12 Large lodge 13 Minus 11 Boston daily 
-=:-+=+::::-+:;~ 19lnformal agreementT]W.tJ.II 23 Ill-gotten gl:!ins 
.!; 25 Fish in a John Cleese comedy .::+:::+:::+..=~ 26 "-newt .. ." -:-t::+~:-1 27 Listed 

48 Hippo's wear in "Fantasia" 49 Dramatist Sean 52 Arts degs. 53 "Cope Book" Aunt 54 Arcing shots 55 Author Hubbard 
29 Operating 30 Reactions to 
aerialists 31 Fall bloomer 32Givenasa 
source 33 Falls (over) 38 London daily .ao Ballerina's 
strong points 43 Speaking skill 45 "Roughing It" 
writer 56 Wordsmith 
Willard 57TheGraf­59 N.Y. institution 
on 53d Street 60 Fedora feature &1 Trans-Atlantic 
speedsters 63 Prov. on 
Niagara Falls 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
.. 


\,.. 
Just afraction ofoor time Wcltching~
could help bring many happy enilings. 
It~ so easy to help your ,-five hours ofvolunteer time community, when you think per week the standard of about it. giving in America. 
~lillions of people have~ FJve. Get involved with the 
helped make five percent 1\e causes you care about oftheirincomesand Whotyo tb«kUimiJW'tmtrvbil. andJ[iver:vf!. 
OF INTEREST 




-

.. 
.. SPORTS 
page 28 Friday, February 4, 1994 
Did someone say upset? 
By JASON KELLY rivalry. Associate Sports Editor Upsets have made it memorable. Both teams 


Sat, Feb. 5 • Joyce ACC PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS 200 PM • NBC-TV 
have had plenty of ups and downs since that You won't see Dwight Clay in a gold uniform January day in 1974, many at the hands of the 
FORWARD

with a big green clover stitched on the chest. other. You won't see Digger Phelps clad head-to-toe Today they are going in opposite directions. 
FORWARD

in plaid with a big green carnation pinned to Coach Jim Barrick's second-ranked Bruins are the lapel. 14-1, their only loss coming last week to Pac-10 You won't see Bill Walton's bushy red hair or rival California. CENTER John Wooden clutching a rolled up program. Notre Dame is 6-13 after ending a six-game 
But you will see Notre Dame against UCLA, losing streak Monday night with a 76-58 win GUARD one of college basketball's most celebrated ri­over Cal-State Northridge. valries which continues Saturday at 2 p.m. at But records don't interest Irish coach John GUARD the Joyce Center. MacLeod. 
It has been 20 years since Clay's climactic "This game is such a rivalry, it doesn't matter moment, a fallaway jump shot that ended if they have one loss or ten losses," he said. 
COACH

UCLA's 88-game winning streak. That game, indeed that moment, defmes this see UCLA I page 20 

JOCK STRIP 
Bet it all on Notre Datne, because... 
N
otre Dame is the place where dreams come true. 
No, I'm not Nostrasdamas. No one is predicting a win, just simply throwing the notion out there. Upsets 
GEORGE

far more mind boggling 
DOHRMANN
have taken place in this Sports Editor 
series alone. 
UCLA/Notre Dame ­call Danny Sheridan or Pete Rose, someone will give odds you cannot resist. Take'em. Bet the whole wad. 
Sure, it's easy to play it safe with the Bruins. Take the talent, the rankings, pick an O'Bannon and run with him. But why not back the underdog? Makeup for the dough you lost on the Rose Bowl. 
• 
Throw your trust in the Ross twins, Joe and Jon. Their only difference is a mole. Jon's is on his neck. Joe's protrudes from his upper lip. Ignore the fact that they are going up against more skilled post players. This is one game. This is Notre Dame. 

• 
Back the wounded veteran. Go with Irish forward Monty Williams. He has become one of the nation's top scorers despite a serious


Oh, Brother 
heart ailment. How can you not cheer for a guy with hypertropic cardio-myopathy? MostBy GEORGE DOHRMANN O'Bannons play their usual style. 
Like it or not, Notre UCLA players couldn't say it or spell it, but 
Sports Editor If the Rosses and UCLA's pair 
they probably think they can catch it. They'llDame's success squared off in a game of two-on-two be stepping out of Monty's way all game. 
J
oe and Jon Ross are the Oliver and all four held true to their aver­• Go with meteorology. Notre Dame just
Norths of Notre Dame basket­depends on strong ages, the O'Bannons would win 31-8 beat Cal-State Northridge. They've proved ball. 
and outrebound the Rosses 14-7. 
performances from themselves against a team from a warm cli­
-
They have taken most of the slack In the simplest form, the mate.
the Ross twins.
for the Irish basketball woes the past O'Bannons are thoroughbreds while • Back the Irish out of respect for John 
two seasons but remain calm and the Rosses are like that little horse Wooden. The great coach began his career at distinguished. basketball. They have led UCLA to a that teeters back and forth in front 
South Bend Central only a few miles from the But this display of integrity won't No. 4 ranking and a legitimate ofKmart. Notre Dame campus. But then again maybe 
national title shot. The type of acco­But Notre Dame needs the Rosses,
get them a spot on Larry King Live we should leave Wooden out of this. The 
lades Notre Dame hoped for its even if the result, to some, is only
or best-selling autobiography, just a Bruin's public relations machine has already
brothers. worth a penny. When they play well 
quite ride into the sunset. bled him dry. Rumors sur-faced that UCLA 
In fact, Saturday's game against "I have enjoyed my time at Notre Notre Dame is successful. Joe gives officials were asking permission to stuff the 
Dame," said Jon, "the good and the Notre Dame a solid defender in the
UCLA may be the last time the pair great coach upon his death and mount him gains center stage, and for all the bad." paint and much needed rebounding. above a backboard in Pauley Pauvilliori. 
wrong reasons. Charles and Ed The bad has been dished out in At times, Jon is a valuable reserve, • Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame. It's justO'Bannon come to town as the heavy doses by Irish fans. And it will an midwest school that doesn't have much.
be like a rebirth Saturday if the see BROTHERS I page 21
hottest brother tandem in college Like Nebraska or Wisconsin -those schools 


Irish Making Tracks John Coyle and the Irish men's and women's track teams host the prestigious Meyo Invitational on Saturday. see page 26 
Inside SPORTS 


Upset Brewing Goalie Greg Louder and the Irish look for an upset against the 20th­ranked Miami (OH) Redskins. see page 25 
see DOHRMANN I page 21 
Their Kind ofTown Letitia Bowen leads the first place women's bas­ketball team to Chicago to take on Loyola. 
see page 23 









