r--:---------~~---~-~~---"""P"eo---~--~-:--::------·-~-::-----...-------------­


THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Third edition of The Guide 'still building' 
Course book 
meant to help, 
but students 
express doubts 
Editor's Note: This is the first in a three-part series examin­ing student government and its projects 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant News Editor 
The future of The Guide , the student course evaluation book, lies within the hands of the students who must encour­age their professors to partici­pate, according to members of the Student Government. 
In their campaign for Stu­dent Body President and Vice President, Dave Hungeling and Matt Orsagh originally wanted to dissolve Student Govern­ment, including The Guide. However, Hungeling agreed to have its third edition published again this year, and now sees the book as a valuable aid for students. 
The student body though still questions its effectiveness. 
The Guide, which is in its second year of publication, costs just under $5,000 per 
semester to print. 
According to The Guide Co­Commissioner Susan McCabe, the bill for the Fall 1994 edi­tion of The Guide was well below the $4900 estimate that the printing company sent the Student Government. The bill 
~OW El?FECTIVE IS.. THE GUIDE? 


Do youtuse.? The Guide?'' 

Recycling increases, but more funding required 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College Residence Hall Association has made significant progress in organizing a campus-wide re­cycling program. 
The Recycling Committee has received information from sev­eral sources regarding the cost of implementing a recycling program in every section of the residence halls. 
Right now, the primary con­cern of the committee is finding a source of funding. A letter requesting funding is being prepared to be sent to the ad­ministration. 
RHA board member Amy Kramer feels that financial sup­port should come from the administration. 
"This program is going to cost thousands of dollars and the residence halls simply don't have that kind of funding," she said. 
"Eventually a program such as this is going to become mandatory, so we might as well start now," she added. 
Meg Couturier, RHA repre­sentative from Regina Hall, feels that the program should start on a small scale and grow as it gains support. 
"At this point in time, we don't know how successful the program will be, and we don't want to waste money on a pro­gram that will not be used in the long run," she said. 
The success of the program relies on student support, and RHA hopes to have sufficient publicity to increase students' awareness of the program. 
Other RHA news: 
•RHA sponsored an area family for the Thanksgiving holiday, and provided them with an extensive holiday din­ner. 
"The family was very nice and very grateful," said Jenn Cherubini, RHA president. 
•Regina Hall's December 2 SYR was a big success. 
"We were very impressed with the number of people who turned out," said Sandy Penska, Regina Hall represen­tative. 
However, there was some concern about some vandalism that occurred in the women's restroom. 
•Next week's RHA meeting will be at five o'clock instead of six-thirty, and will be the an­nual RHA Christmas Party. 
Does.. it. contain classes in your major? 

included the cost of printing 2500 copies of a handbook that would contain 216 pages and a cover. 
However, the final version of the Fall 1994 edition of The Guide contained only 176 pages, and in order to cut down the budget, McCabe said, the course evaluations are printed on recyclable paper. 
More advertisers are also being sought in order to acquire more funding for The Guide. 
In addition to the printing costs, money is spent by the Academic Council, which pays approximately $2,000 to stu­dents who organize the publication of the course evalu­ation handbook. Two co-edi­tors are each paid $300 per semester, and seven or eight contributors who write for The Guide are paid $100 per semester. 
These costs are worth the money, however. according to The Guide itself. 
The "Note to All Users of The Guide" printed on page 2 of the handbook, says the Student Government's "primary goal is to aid students in obtaining the best possible undergraduate education while at Notre Dame." 

The Observer/Zoe Marin 
Hungeling said he, too, thought The Guide is ''definite­ly a way to improve the quality of undergraduate education." 
One reason it has the poten­tial to be effective, Hungeling said, is because it is a student­run program. 
Produced entirely by under­graduate students, The Guide first asks permission of a pro­fessor to print an evaluation of his or her class. 
If given permission, The Guide staff includes an evalua­tion consisting students' rank­ings of 1 to 5 in response to 
see GUIDE I page 4 

Santa pays a pre-Christmas visit to students studying in the Huddle at LaFortune. 
Jolly Old Saint Nick 
Committee to select new provost 
Special to the Observer 

Rev. Edward Malloy, presi­dent of the University of Notre Dame, will ask the University's Academic· 
Council at its January meeting to elect a search com­mittee to O'Meara assist in the process of selecting the University's next provost, ac­cording to a University press release. 
• see SENATE, page 3 

The new provost, the University's second-ranking of­ficer, will succeed Timothy O'Meara. Notre Dame's provost since 1978. O'Meara announced this summer that he would step down as provost June 30, 1996, at the age of 68. 
In accordance with the aca­demic articles of the University. Malloy will ask that the council form a committee composed of five of its faculty members and one of its stu­dent members. Malloy will chair the committee, which 

see PROVOST I page 4 

• I , ~-I-,-,-----;--.,:-;,~,;-,;-,;-:-~.,...,........--.,....--...,...,.___,.--,~­
I 
' I I I I f I • 

. . . . 
page 2 Wednesday, December 7, 1994
The Observer • INSIDE 

• INSIDE COLUMN 
Oh that path to womanhood 
Dear Mom and Dad, 
I have something to tell you. Please don't be dis­appointed. I know you have this image of me as a fine, upstanding, moral, conservative person. And I am really. But there comes a time in every young woman's life 

where she just has to  Krista Nannery  
break free, do something  
wild, something crazy'  Assistant Viewpoint  
something out of charac- Editor  
ter.  Please don't get  

alarmed, what I did isn't that bad. You might even understand Mom, being a woman your­self. It's Dad I'm worried about. 
It all started innocently enough. A joke actually. Guys do these things all the time. Why shouldn't we? And our friend's dad was kind enough to set us up, make reservations for us, got us a good table. The doorman even greeted us as "The Notre Dame Girls." He checked our coats for free, waived the cover, and put us on the management's tab for the evening. We were living the good life. We felt mature. Worldly. But this was no ordinary dinner club. Mom, Dad, here it is. I'm com­ing clean. I went to a male strip joint. There. I've said it. But it was a nice strip joint, really it was. Classy even. And they were all so nice to us. 
I know what you want to ask. Did they take it all off? Well, they don't call these places strip joints for nothing. No, we didn't shut our eyes. No, we didn't get any table dances. No, I didn't put any money in their G-strings or meet any of the guys after the show. We were content just to sit and well, stare. We cer­tainly saw some interesting things. It's amaz­ing what the male body is capable of and what a few candles can do for "atmosphere." 
We stayed for less than two hours. It got really monotonous after a while. The initial shock of seeing naked men do handstands or the lambada faded within the first half hour. Every once in a while, we'd catch our reflec­tions in the mirror behind the stage. Four Notre Dame girls were either trying to control their giggles or checking their watches. I think we embarrassed the poor guys actually. They kept looking at us rather shyly as if we were their little sisters or something. That's not surprising considering we were probably the youngest, most innocent looking girls in the place. One guy practically ran off the stage after he performed, covering himself in embarrassment. 
I think the whole strip joint experience is a lot different for guys than for girls. Guys can go every night and not get bored. They can look at the same dirty magazine for hours and watch late-nite television every night, all night. The novelty of our evening, on the other hand, wore off rather quickly. If you've seen one naked man dancing man in cowboy boots, you've seen them all. 
We all came to the conclusion that if there is one place we don't want to go for our bache­lorette party, it's a strip club. No strippers for our bridal showers either. But we have a lit­tle time before we start really worrying about that type of stuff. So don't worry, I'm still your little girl and will be for a long time. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFf  
News Brad Prendergast Amy Schmidt  Viewpoint Krista Nannery Angela Olsen  
Sports Joe Villinski  Lab Tech Mark Alexion Accent  
Production Kira Hutchinson Kim Massman  Kym Kilbride Graphics Zoe Marin  

Th~ Ob~rv~r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exc~pt during exam and vacation ~riods. The Observer is a m~mb~r of the Associated Pr~s. All reproduction rights are r~erved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Serbs keep hold on U.N. peacekeepers, let convoy pass 
Sarajevo, Kris Janowski, hailed the nN'TFN~o'11 Bihac was reported close to falling. 
Fergie evicted from London home 
LONDON The Duchess of York's new landlord is evicting her. 
Romenda Lodge, home to the former Sarah Ferguson and her two daughters, was sold this month to a businessman who wants to move his family in...She has to move out by the end of January and hasn't found anywhere else yet," said the duchess's spokeswoman, requesting customary anonymity. Fergie rented the six-bedroom house near Windsor Castle, 20 miles west of 

London, after separating from Prince Ferguson Andrew more than two years ago. Princesses Beatrice, 6, and Eugenie, 4, go to school about five miles away from the $1.4 million house. The duchess has been looking for a home near her husband's at Sunninghill Park so she could call on his security officers in an emergency, according to Press Association, the British national news agency. 
Binge drinkers: Ruining campus life? 
CHICAGO 
Nearly half of U.S. college students are binge drinkers who make life miserable for much of the other half, according to a survey. "Students on campuses where there's a lot of binge drinking are affected in a number of ways -including physical assault, sexual harassment, property damage and interrupted sleep or study time," said Henry Wechsler, director of the Alcohol Studies Program at Harvard School of Public Health. He surveyed 17,592 students on 140 campuses. Forty-four percent reported hinging on alcohol. Binge drinkers were seven times as likely to have unprotected sex as a non-binge drinker and 10 times as likely to drive after drinking. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Wednesday, Dec. 7 Accu-Wealher,.forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~ 
'''' ' 
OHIO jlndianapoli3 46° I 
ILL 
u· 

Pressute 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLVRRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 64 53 Dallas 56 45 New Orleans 75 62 Baltimore 47 41 Denver 37 13 New York 45 35 Boston 34 26 Fremont 67 47 Philadelphia 47 40
q_~-~4.Q.Q (f ~ c:::1 

Chicago 33 24 Miami 85 71 Phoenix 66 45
Showers T·storms Rain R~rties S~~;;, Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Coldwater 39 34 Minneapolis 23 13 St. Louis 33 30
v .. Associated Preas GraphK;sNel 01994 Accu·Wealher. Inc. 


COLD WARM 

Illinois rape, incest abortions funded 
CHICAGO 

A judge Tuesday ordered Illinois to comply with a feder­al law requiring the state to provide Medicaid-funded abortions to women who become pregnant during rape or incest. U.S. District Judge Charles Kocoras made perma­nent his Nov. 21 temporary order, when he told state offi­cials they had to follow the 1993 law in order to acccept federal money. Medicaid is jointly funded by federal and state governments. In mid-November, a state committee voted to abolish Gov. Jim Edgar's emergency rule allow­ing for Medicaid funding in cases of rape or incest. The committee said such a rule shouldn't be made without legislative approval. Edgar issued the rule in July after Congress acted last year to allow Medicaid-funded abor­tions for rape and incest victims. Until then, the Hyde Amendment had banned federal money for abortions except to save a woman's life. Since then, the state has processed six claims for Medicaid-funded abortions for rape and incest victims, according to the Illinois Department of Public Aid. 
Mercury expedition to search for ice 
SAN FRANCISCO 

NASA wants to send an unmanned spacecraft to look for ice inside craters on Mercury, the solar system's hottest planet. The presence of ice could suggest the pos­sibility of life on Mercury. While the planet's temperature reaches 800 degrees at its equator, Mercury's poles are 235 below zero. "Mercury is intriguing to scientists because it is the least understood of the solar system's terrestrial planets," said astronomer Robert M. Nelson. who discussed the plans for the Hermes mission on Monday at a meeting of the American Geophysical Union He is the project's principal investigator at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena. 
Tuesday put the number of peacekeepers held by Serbs at 309, 40 fewer than they reported previously. The United Nations offered no explanation for the new figures. 
The peacekeepers, held at several points in Bosnia, were detained after NATO airstrikes 
released 53 of them Sunday, all Dutch and British peacekeepers stopped in earlier efforts to get food and fuel to Srebrenica. But Serbs have reneged on a promise by their leader, Radovan Karadzic, to release the others and 
U.N. efforts to secure their release have made little progress. 
On the front lines, combat tapered ofT today around the northwestern enclave of Bihac, whose civilians are also suffering food short­ages, said Maj. Gourmelon. He said the govern­ment-held town of Velika Kladusa just north of 
But Gen. Atif Dudakovic, commander of the Bosnian army 5th Corps that is based in Bihac, told the main Sarajevo daily Oslobodjenje that his defense lines were holding firm. 
Serbs from both Bosnia and Croatia have linked up with a renegade Muslim force to make a major push in the Bihac area. 
Croat forces claimed to have captured anoth­er seven villages from Serbs in a week-long push north up the Bosnian side of the border with Croatia. 
More than 200,000 people are dead or miss­ing in the 32-month-old conflict, which began when Serbs rebelled after Bosnia's Muslim-led government declared independence from Yugoslavia. 
SARAJEVO 
Refusing to cancel their insur­ance policy against further NATO bombings, Serbs kept tight hold over more than 300 U.N. peace­keepers today despite earlier pledges to set them free. 
Serbs yielded to U.N. pressure and allowed an aid convoy to reach Srebrenica in eastern Bosnia. A second convoy on its way to Goradze, another Muslim-held town in eastern Bosnian running low on vital supplies, was still awaiting clearance. 
Serbs refused to let 32 other con­voys bring relief to other Muslim­held enclaves or to resupply peace­keepers. Still, a U.N. spokesman in 
Bosnia rejects concessions 
D Bosnian Serb 8] Serb-held Croatia 
• Muslim·Croat 0 U.N.-designated federation "safe zones" 
Srebrenica convoy as the "first encouraging sign from the Bosnian Serb side in many weeks." 
The 50,000 residents of Srebrenica are among the most desperate in Bosnia. Nearly half are refugees and scuffles broke out today between them as 96 tons of food, fuel and winter gear rolled into the town, said Peter Kessler of 
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, which organized the con­voys from Belgrade, the Yugoslav capital. The fuel was the first to arrive in six months. 
U.N. spokesmen in Sarajevo on 
Recent developments 
•The 
Bosnian Prime Minister will not accept changes to the current peace proposal. 

•Bosnian 
Serbs have almost captured Velika Kladusa. Fighting was heavy near Bihac. 

•Bosnian 
Serbs released 53 peacekeepers, but still hold 350. 

•British 
and French diplomats discussed a new peace initiative with Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic. 




' . ' ' 

Wednesday, December 7, 1994 
•HPC Acting group may come to campus 
By CHRISTINE DEBEVIC 
News Writer 

The Mulberry Players, an acting group that is committed to performing topics of interest to students, may visit campus sometime next semester, Lisa Puma announced at the Hall Presidents' Council last night 
"The Players are a gender relations group that performs skits relevant to the campus," said Rich Palermo, co­chairperson of the council. 
Puma, from the University Counseling Center, said that the group wants student feed­back for ideas of interesting and informative skits. The Players would be brought in by the UCC, and the group would also be sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and Women's Studies. 
In other HPC news: 

• 
The council discussed the money remaining from the cancellation of Weekend Wheels. Possibilities include sponsoring an alternative pro­gram or a campus-wide event. 

• 
Jeane Boyle of Pasquerilla East discussed the PE-spon­sored Pictures with Santa in LaFortune's Dooley Room on Wednesday and Thursday nights from 7-9 p.m. All the profits will go to Holy Cross Outreach in Indianapolis. 


The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• fACUllY SENATE Senate debates role in electing new provost 


Two additional members may be added to council By MIKE DAY News Writer ' 
The Faculty Senate continues to debate whether or not two of its members should be added to the academic council in deter­mining who the new provost will be for the 1995-96 school year. 
The faculty members met last night at the Center for Continuing Education to discuss several unresolved issues from last month's meeting. However, the meeting turned into a debate of how large a role the Senate should take in assisting the academic council in its decision next spring. 
"The administration has made it known that they would like a more extensive faculty participation," said Senator Jean Porter, professor of theol­ogy. "It seems this resolution would be in accordance with aims that we are universally seeking." 
Senator Ed Vasta, professor of English, echoed Porter's statement, adding that the ad­dition of the two senators to the committee would be in the best interests of Notre Dame. 
"The spirit in the Senate wants to shift authority from the administration to the facul­ty in government decisions," said Vosta. "The important question is not whether the Senate is recognized or not but whether things are done in a proper fashion and the proper decision is made." 
The academic council has the responsibility of choosing the provost every five years. According to Father Richard McBrien, the chair of the Senate, the faculty is seeking greater input in the governing of the university. 
Several members of the fac­ulty Senate oppose the selection of two professors to the assist the five person academic coun­cil in its decision. 
"There is no justification for any change," said Senator John Malkovsky, professor of theol­ogy. "Unless seven is better than five members, I don't see why the Senate needs to move to change the process." 
Senator Michael Detlefsen, professor of philosophy, be­lieves the addition of the two extra senators will lead to a better decision. 
"There must be some diver­sity amongst the members in making such a decision," said Detlefsen. "Seven will give the council a better representation of the faculty." 
The Senate will continue its discussion on January 18. 



All in a day's work TheObseiVer/MichelleDiRe 
Flanner junior Ben Foos works on a pottery project during ceramics class. 

<A memorial service for Malloy will be the celebrant. Barbara Ballasty will be held In lieu of floral arrange tonight. Wednesday at 7:30 ments, contributions may b 
p.m.. at the South Bend· made to the Christian Reforme Christian Reformed Church. WQrld Jlelief Committe~;'c/ ·The church is located at 1855 }1South Bend Christian Reforme North Hickory Road~ South Church, 1855 North Hickor Bend. Road. South Bend, Indian 
In addition the 5:00 p.m. 46635 or to a scholarship fun liturgy at Sacred Heart Basilica in Ballasty's memory at Mate on Thursday December 8th, Dei High School. 537 Churc The Feast of the Immaculate Street Middleton, New Jerse Conception., will be C!, Memori~~-P714<8._,, ... 



I 
l ~ 
r 
' 

CET Ill DELIVERED 


DELIVERS TO YOU 
Best Pizza at the Best Price Char•r•iled Ham•urgersOur Fameus Allegre Santlwiehes and Con"enienee Store Items 



-


ONE DELICIOUS WAY TO SAVE 
LAR~GEONE 
ITEM PIZZA ONLY 
$5.00 
WiT"rl THIS AD 
EXPIRES 
12{22/94 

Wednesday, December 7, 1994

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 

partment that I needed that mately a decision of the profes­completed, the articles direct were printed in The Guide," she sors" to communicate with the that Malloy consult with the
Guide Provost
said. Student Body. He suggested elected faculty members of the Greg Ramano, a junior living that professors might not want council concerning all serious
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
off campus, admitted, "I've to participate in the evaluation candidates and afterwards re­never used The Guide." handbook because of concerns will receive and consider nomi­port the complete results of
seventeen questions. These statistics, according to According to Pangborn Hall regarding its objectivity. nations from the University's that consultation to the 
senior Cynthia Poulakidas, The In an effort to increase pro­faculty. trustees, along with a personalthe Student Government, show Guide is "useful for some class­fessor participation, McCabe recommendation.
how many students responded Additional nominations may 
and what the average response es. However, it would be used said that not only were letters be received directly by Malloy It is then the responsibility of was. The professor's descrip­more if more professors partici­written directly to the profes­and the University's trustees. the trustees to elect the new pated in it," she said. sors, but letters were sent to When this procedure has been provost.
tion of the course and its re­McCabe also mentioned that deans asking them to encour­quirements are also included in all other top 25 colleges and age professors in their depart­the evaluation. 

universities (according to U.S. ments to allow The Guide toThe Guide staff said that they News and World Report) have print evaluations of their cours­work "to be fair, accurate, and had course evaluation hand­es. However. she added, "Wecomprehensive in writing these books like The Guide that are can't force them (professors) tocritiques." 
more developed. do it." 
While The Guide is entirely 

According to McCabe, the According to Guide Co­student-run, the course book 
University of Pennsylvania's Commissioner Andrew Eifert,
may not be reaching the stu­C.OMPLlTE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT tRIPS Penn Review has a full paid "every year we pick up more
dent body it was intended to IOj.li$ i: IJ·1 .J;IJ t"f!-1~1·1
staff, and Harvard's The Cue and more people. It's not going
help. I :1·1~f·1,l,f.t3' j'i:I 4·!3:I 
began 30 or 40 years ago. to happen over night." 
Many members of the student 1·1·\'•i·l~f·i :1 ¥t·i3: I 
However, she said, when their McCabe said that The Guide
body said that The Guide was IBi'lltf)ljl
handbooks were in the begin­is being funded for the next two 
not useful to them. IJ;:H•H·BI 
ning stages "those schools ran years by the Academic Council, VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
Beth Rabadan, a sophomore into the same problems we're and it will be decided whetherfrom Pangborn Hall agreed. 

dealing with now" or not to continue its publica­"There were few teachers from Hungeling said that it is "ulti-tion after that two-year period. 
the 200 level classes in my de­


1Ntghts holiel with air! 

$319 

cancun ._ 
7 N'tghta hotel with air! 

$359 
We Make Spring Break Easy! 
all.8UR. RESEitVATIONS CI!NI'ER AT 1-MIJ.SZ-ntAVEL. 
All~· U'CI c:c.tAnaed lDMaldr bp' u:lcpboac -.d ail...h.ald.l arc: IIW11",., In •ddn& ItFCJU ba9e a.r:~c. to a tu. m.c.blDe. we caa. mea lair. you a 'tlorltteD coa&m.tdaa u 10011 • )'OW'
_......._.y__.,_h...,... -..,.....~ 
,...,-dtlac11.-aoc1 ..... "',_

.....,. -~~~  ..  
wrida1. ADd )'OU coo • .., up 1D 1!10 per - 1rJ'OU ......,...,  
bd«e Decemberl7, 1-.0t11 -,.  

FREE TRIPI 
Orga....., a group ellS 

IIIIIB8Jill 
people and ya.r ~Is IRHI ~T U 0 E N I~ EL 
f'ICJ'KI* 'ml 
FOR RESERVATIONSAND INFORMATION, CALL USAT 
1-800-95-BREAK 
r n g r e 

"Wit~ ••ly ••• •••• te live••.De•'t ~lew it." Save $30 Sign up before Jan. 1st,19951 

Jamaica...........from $43 9 

Cancun............from $3 9 9 
South Padre.....from $189 

"The Reliable Spring Bruk CompanyH 

Sun Splash Tours Ca/11-800-426-7710 
~P~XtfG 8~£Ak'95 
FROM$+~ 
8 Days/7 Nights Air, Hotel & More From Chicago 
CLAUDIA AT 284-4326 COREY OR JIM AT BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS 
flOSS I 
1-800-875-4525 
TOURS 

PA~T~£~ £vt~\' HXGNT!! AT THE BEST NIG+ff 'LUBS IN ~E WORLD.' FROM 10·30PM-l00AIA -SPECIAL ~EVERAGE DEALS OFFERED ALL NIG+ff 
Tues. Dec. 13 6:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. Basement of LaFortune Student Center 
Offering Spring Break packages to 
JAMAICA CANCUN 
... and many other places 

CO call us at 631-7080 
?come with any questions you may have 
~ door prizes and party snacks available for those 
ta\travelmore 
who arrive early 
a 

' 9 5 * 
\&/Carlson Trav~L~eJ~.Q!'.k 
Sprin9 Break '950
7 nit}.hts 

Bahamas (air & hotel) ..... . from $409 Cancun (air & hotel) ..... . from $499 Daytona Beach (hotel only) from $109 Panama City (hotel only) from $109 
Prices are per person and based on quad occupancy. Must be booked by December 17, 1994 
VIP treatment, club admissions, contests, exclusive parties and more special benefits than any other spring break trip. 
For more detailed information call the travel experts at: 
219-258-0877 
620 West Edison Road, St. Andrew's Plaza Mishawaka 

Wednesday, December 7, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Judges deny stay for Resnover 
By THOMAS WYMAN 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Two judges turned down re­quests Tuesday to block the ex­ecution of Gregory Resnover, whose lawyers turned to the 
U.S. Supreme Court with a plea to halt his electrocution slated for early Thursday. 

One judge called a request "a last-minute attempt to manipu­late the judicial process." 
Robert W. Hammerle, Resnover's chief attorney, asked the U.S. Supreme Court for a stay to reconsider his death sentence. The high court had no immediate response. 
Hammerle said he is also preparing filings for U.S. District Court in Indianapolis and with the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago. 
"Certainly it appears bleak now for Mr. Resnover," said Richard Waples, a lawyer with the Indiana Civil Liberties Union. He said the final, failed effort in state court was Resnover's "last best chance to get a stay." 
"Federal courts are increas­ingly hostile to these last­minute attempts to stay execu­tions," Waples said. 
Resnover, 43, is scheduled to be executed just after midnight Wednesday -early Thursday morning -for his part in the 1980 shooting · death of Indianapolis police Sgt. Jack Ohrberg. Ohrberg was slain attempting to arrest Resnover in the shooting death of a Brinks guard. 
Earlier Tuesday, Marion 
Superior Court Judge Anthony 
J. Metz Ill dismissed a stay re­quest filed by attorney Michael 
K. Sutherlin asking the court to review Gov. Evan Bayh's deci­sion Monday to deny clemency. 
"That's (Bayh's) right, and he has now made that decision," Metz said. 
Waples managed to win the second hearing only after four judges refused to consider the matter and state Supreme Court Chief Justice Randall T. Shepard appointed Morgan Superior Judge G. Thomas Gray as a special judge. 
But Resnover fared no better with Gray. 
Waples, arguing before Gray, said the state's electric chair works unreliably and that elec­trocution violates state and fed­eral constitutional bans on cruel and unusual punishment. 
"Death by electrocution in Indiana's electric chair actually cooks the body and boils the blood," Waples said. 
Court rulings upholding the constitutionality of execution by electrocution are based on wrong and outdated assump­tions that the condemned crimi­nal loses consciousness imme­diately, he said. 

After Waples presented evi­dence for more than an hour, Deputy Attorney General Aaron Abel spoke for only for a few minutes. But Abel heard his words echoed in the judge's ruling that followed immedi­ately. 
The ICLU's class action suit, filed on behalf of Indiana's 51 death row inmates, was a "last­minute attempt to manipulate the judicial process," Abel said. 
The Supreme Court has up­held the constitutionality of execution by electrocution, even if death is not immediate, Abel said. 
Gray, who prosecuted Steven Judy for the murder of a moth­er and her three children, agreed electrocution does not violate the Constitution. Judy was executed in 1981 after re­fusing to appeal. 
As the legal battling was ranging from Indianapolis to Washington, Resnover waited alone on Death Row at the state prison in Michigan City. 
The state's other condemned inmates were transferred to a super-security prison at Westville, about 12 miles away, after three inmates escaped in October. 
A prison guard was shot at with homemade weapons and smuggled bullets. The guard was not injured and the inmates were recaptured inside the prison walls. 
Protests of the impending ex­ecution resumed at the Statehouse. 

"We protest the decision of Gov. Bayh to deny clemency to Gregory Resnover," said Nancy Bothne, the Midwest director of Amnesty International. 
Edward Ducree, of the Legal Redress Committee of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said the debate over capitol punishment rises above issues of race and ethnicity. 
"It has to do with what is right-morally right," Ducree said. 
by ~ l~ader 
outlawed.;~,tfJrish .u Army.. ·v·t';(;~f%k;(,.·¥~f+) 
was the first time that Sinn Fein representatives had been to the White House ...We had a 
very gooq,me~ting/' ~~.. ~aid. '% 



1

t•hi'i'eiht st:i;;];•';··l··!!~~[~~;.H!~t~,;:-)~,:.~,i;:\';~:~:;&i~~:,t;!~]m~ 
and that its main function at this time should be to do so in way which leads to havingta•Ui
peacefuland a stable 'Ireland;" Adams,told .reporters after 
· meeting \Vith National Security Adviser Anthony Lake and Commerc13 Secretary Ron 
Brown. '':'t · A+senior U.S. official de­

scribed~~ meeting as part.of the process of nurturing pea.ce in Northern Ireland. !•we are · very qopeful,·~ said theofficial, who asked not to be identified. "We think there is an under­
· standing to negotiate the 
tl!~:: di~:r~n:::e· fight ·•····.· Th~ offidal .said it i~r clear that ·~when the United States 
behind a processAit give to .th 

' 
blocking his , pealed. "Someone rescue me... ,•.•.".,}h~ journalists ga 
i}.t~:l~.tt:>~k the4opportt:J)lity.•·als() 4• 'Adams and his .• . · .. 
o(putting on the l'ecord Out dozen s·'·Wfltttint;O that. the British govern"' Wl}ite House.· &>...,.,,...,. should leaveour country,, 1112 hours in taiJ.,ks;t·~'ntM:i:r:pij~(';iXI 
Ointon and Vice rres101Bnt Gore did not take 
T.h.e'.'··''· .. . 
.............~ .............. 
AdaiJl.~.~R fhe .. disc\lSii ways to .... ··-~··~·"""'.."'···· ..,"',.•..,.., and economic growth in troubled Northern lrehmd~i 
The ban on U.S. cont · with Sinn Fein was . mont~~; ago. aftet ~ije· ····...... ·..._.···· 
annouri'Ced its willingness to · enter into a cease-fire with British forces. Adams'·meeting with Lake was an evolutionary step in Sinn Fein's relations with the United States. admin-: 
~~,~:e:~~~~;:~;:~\1]1~n~~~~ .. 

port tor joint effQr~s ofth · British and Irish ' ·. · · • .··to reach a poimc<!U 


Prayer Vigil in Opposition to the Execution of Gregory Resnover 
Wednesday, December 7 11:45 pm-12:15 am Law School Lounge 
Gregory Resnover will be the first person to be put to death in Indiana since 1985. His execut~on is scheduled for 12:01 am on Thursday, December 8. Please join us for prayer and reflection at the time of his execution. Some thoughts will be pro­vided by Law School Dean David T. Link and Father William Lewers of the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
Governor Evan Bayh has the authority to prevent the execution. His phone number is (317) 232-4567 
Center for Civil and Human Rights National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NDLS Chapter) Notre Dame Amnesty International Office of the Dean, Notre Dame Law School 

• r .. ' , • • • • • ' £ • • • • • 
-~--~ 

I •-I. I, I •· I. •· · ., ·t ' , ' ., " ' • ' I. 
page 6 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS Wednesday, December 7, 1994 
Rubin to replace Bentsen as head of Treasury 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton selected Robert Rubin, who amassed a multimillion-dollar fortune on Wall Street before joining the administration, to succeed Uoyd Bentsen as Treasury sec­retary Tuesday. 
Bentsen's departure will de­prive the administration of the Cabinet officer with the most experience and respect on Capitol Hill just as Republicans are taking control of Congress for the first time in 40 years. 
But the change is expected to have little impact on policy since both men are pro-busi­ness Democrats. 
Rubin, who took a $26 million pay cut to leave the investment banking firm of Goldman Sachs & Co. to join the administra­tion, won widespread praise as a self-effacing coordinator who made sure a coherent economic strategy was developed for a president often criticized for an inability to reach timely deci­sions. 
But it was unclear how smoothly Rubin would be able to make the transition from his behind-the-scenes role to chief economic policy spokesman for the administration, where he will have to serve as the point man in dealing with a Republican Congress intent on shrinking the size of govern­ment and cutting taxes. 
In a Rose Garden ceremony announcing the change, Clinton thanked Bentsen for his contri­butions and said, ''I'm really 

i 
I. 
going to miss you." 
Bentsen, who had spent 22 years in the Senate before join­ing the administration, said he told the president back in September of his desire to re­turn to his native Texas and was not swayed even though Clinton tried on several occa­sions to talk him out of it. 
"It's been a great time to be Treasury secretary and it's a great time to be bowing out as Treasury secretary," said Bentsen, who later told re­porters that the Republican takeover of Congress had not influenced his decision. 
Rubin's position as director of the president's National Economic Council is expected to be filled by Erskine Bowles, currently the deputy White House chief of staff. 
An administration source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that Bowles' selection was not announced Tuesday because the White House had not decided on Bowles' replacement. 
While Bentsen was the first top economic policy-maker to leave the administration, there were already rumors of other departures. 
Commerce Secretary Ron Brown is among those being considered to run the presi­dent's re-election campaign and could depart early next year. 
Clinton praised Rubin as the "consummate honest broker" who had helped the White House "do something that had never been done before, to have an economic team that really works together as a team." Clinton created the NEC to perform the same coordinat­ing role in economic policy that the National Security Council does in foreign affairs. 
The changeover is occurring as the administration is in the midst of a series of internal meetings trying to map out an approach in its new budget proposal to the Republicans' "Contract With America." 
Rubin, who spent three decades on Wall Street amass­ing a fortune estimated at be­tween $100 million and $150 million, has little experience dealing with Congress. He cer­tainly does not bring Bentsen's insider knowledge gained from long tenure as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. 
Bentsen, however, dismissed worries on this score, saying "He's dealt with giant egos on Wall Street. He can deal with them here." 
Rubin was expected to have little trouble winning Senate confirmation. Sen. Bob Dole, R­Kan. who will take over as a majority leader in January, said he expected to support Rubin's nomination because of his qualifications and his "hon­esty and integrity." 
Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., the incoming chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, said he looked forward to working with Rubin "to lower the capital gains tax and to re­lieve the tax burden of working middle-class Americans." 
While Rubin won praise from Republicans, ·liberal Democrats faulted him. They said he had pushed Clinton to pursue a con­servative economic policy that stressed deficit reduction and free trade while failing to ad­dress the needs of middle class workers who have seen their wages stagnate for two decades. 
"The administration's strat­egy has not been a terribly good one in dealing with the very real problem of middle class anxiety," said Jeff Faux, head of the liberal Economic Policy Institute. 
Bentsen said he would leave office on Dec. 22. 
Until Rubin is confirmed, Deputy Treasury Secretary Frank Newman will oversee day-to-day operations of the department. 
While Bentsen won high marks for his smooth dealings with his former congressional colleagues, his two-year tenure at Treasury had more than its share of setbacks. 
In office less than a month, he had to deal with a botched raid of the Branch Davidian complex in Waco, Texas, by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, a Treasury agency. 
He also faced questions about the ability of the Secret Service to protect the White House and about Treasury's supervisory role in handling a failed Arkansas savings and loan in­volved in the Whitewater inves­tigation. 
But outside of early off-the­cuff remarks that caused the dollar to drop sharply, Bentsen was much more sure-footed in his economic policy. 
He was one of the architects of Clinton's deficit reduction program and he also won plau­dits for deft coordination of international economic issues. 


T. t1e 0 Jserver 
is now accepting applications for 
Cartoonist 
To draw a comic strip 2-3 times a week for the 1995 Spring Semester. Those interested, contact Garrett Gray x 1771. Job details and pay will be discussed. 

.., . . .. ,: ·-·· ·~f''"~< • .-'' ·--;,. F • ..-.,~.~~.-t.o·\ '~ • 'f·~--~~ .:(~~ ' 


• •' t ~ .,..,. 1.1 ~ • • -r" • . 
I 

OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS: South Bend Police have agreed to provide a home watch service for students over Christmas break. Police will check on your·house or apartment up to three times a day while you are away. There is no charge for this service. 
To participate in the Home Watch Program, follow these easy steps: 
1. 
Telephone South Bend Police at 235-9201 and ask to sign up for Home Watch. 

2. 
Identify yourself as a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, or Holy Cross student. 

3. 
Tell police what day and date you are leaving and when you will return. 

4. 
Be prepared to give police a contact person and telephone number in case there is a problem at your residence. 

5. 
Be sure to notify police if you return from break early. · 


In addition to Home Watch, take other steps to protect your home: 
1. 
Stop mail and newspaper delivery. 

2. 
Leave lights on a timer. Consider leaving a radio on too. 

3. 
Double check to see that all doors and windows are locked. 

4. 
Keep valuables out of sight. 

5. 
Take really valuable property home with you or store it with someone who will be here during break. 


Be smart -protect your house while you are on break! 
This ad is sponsored by Student Government, the Off-campus Presidents, and Notre Dame Security. 
'­

Wednesday, December 7, 1994 The Observer •INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Peaceful Europe a distant dream 
By SALLYJACOBSEN Associated Ptes$ 
BUDAPEST 
Five years ago. it sounded like the perfect blueprint for a peaceful Europe: Tear down the Berlin,---~_,.,,.....,.,., Wall, rip apart the• Iron. Curtain and· dismantle the 

··Soviet Union. Today, it's··__ back to the drawing . ~,, bo~d. . Shevardnactze . . . :~f'fe C<;old) . . . .nim~~ii;;
War is over. . .·. :;
. . . ·•·J;i . 

Beware of the peace,''tfqrmer . Soviet Foreign Minister 
Eciuat~ Shev~rdn~dzttsaid

>ruefullYTuesday at. thtFcol)clu·sion of a 52-nation summit. that was supposed to difuse tensions in Europe. .... ......,.,~b,eyardnadze, now j)resi~ 
tde'll~ of/Georgia, a former . Soviet republic wracked by 
f;ethl)iri"violence, told the ses· siortthat Europeans were .. liv­ing through such a frightening peace." 
His Czech counterpart, Vac.avHavel, said, ·'Tb, birth or a new and genuinely stable European order is taking place 

· more slowly and with greater difficulty and pain than most or us expected five years ago." Their comments provided a bitter ending to the summit of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. Both were prominent in the upheavals transforming the continent since the 1989 fall of the Berlin Wall. The summit was intended to strengthen the CSCE -. the only organization drawing to~ gether the United States, Canada, all European nations and former Soviet republics. 
The goal was to give it enough muscle so it can try to resolve conflicts before they 

·develop into full~blown wars. Russian President Boris 
such as in Bosnia. not far from Yeltsin railed against the 
this elegant Central European United States for trying to 
capital. _ keep it out of the exclusive 
-Jn a hesitant step forward-. NATO club. 
the nations offered to provide President Clinton tried to of~ 
their first peacekeeping mis-: fer soothing words. NATO's 
sion to police the disputed expansion. even if_ up to 
Armenian enclave ofNagorno-Russia's borders. would mean 
Karabakh in the former Soviet moresecurity forall, he said. 
republic ofAzerbaijan. The logic was lost on Yeltsin, 
They also agreed on a series His government fears 
of measures intended to give diminishing. influence and iso~ 
the group a higher proftle, in-lation on the continent's·east.. 
eluding changing its name to em edge. 
Organization for Security and _ Yeltsin·s government also 
Cooperation in Europe. _ ,A,At:bloc~ed .a statement approved 
The<11J1gerlying· ~tl'a.~~gy;l:ii(\·bythe qt}ler$ that would have·_ 
.... 
pushed by the Uniied State$< condeJllDed the ·aggression of __ 
and othet Western nations, is•..: the Serbs. its traditional ally in----· 
to ·stabilize -Europe by bolster;"'' · Bosnia. __ 
ingitf()rganizations tqld ~~e·h · That meanfthere was .no 
ating strong links betWeen its mention of the Yugoslav crisis 
eastern and western ·halves. ' . -the worst conflict in Europe 
The NATO military alliance since World War II-in th~ and __ th~ J3:urope~n U:qi(>n .. ~unn11it"s fiplj,l dR~pment, •. i'!" iUJt}nd \e.. -_ admit >Poland,; •·_Bosnian· aelegate Mahir Hungary ·and other~:t --but Hadziahmetovic was so angry proba.bly not much before the t.hat he refused to go along . turn of th~ ~entury. _ __ .____ _._.. "'I\··· .with a. ntilder statementcall~ ­
Russia; an unlikely· candf.. ing for humanitarian aid for 
date _for·membership in ~ither his war-torn country. 
NATO or the EU. would be ••My countryis not facing a 
drawn closer through specitJ.l natural .___ ...••___ . disaster,•· 
partnership$ and through t~~ ' HadziahmMovic said in a 
CSCE. x · · statement heavywith sarcasm. 
But the animosities dis~_ HThe message to small coun~ 
played by some countries at tries is: 'Arm yourself because 
the summit underscored the no one will help you in case of 
conflicts rooted in decades~old aggression.••• 
ethnic rivalries and hatreds. Italian Prime Minister Silvio 
••The very idea of the com~ Berlusconi also was disheart~ 
mon European Hquse is nearly.0 ened.He saicl he approached. 
dead and being consumed by " other leaders to discuss the . 
the fires of numerous conflicts Bosnian crisis. 
and wars." said ''(It) left me exhausted, disil~ 
Shevardnadze. lusioned and full of anxiety" to 
Bosnia's president, Alija see how tlm leaders "all start­
Izethegovic. could not contain ed to throw up their hands and 
his disdain for a world be said looked helpless.'' 
had turned a blind eye to the Yet Havel, a playwright, 
death of thousands of his peo~ struck a more optimistic 
ple. chord. _ 
The meeting, intended as a ..There is no reason why the 
showcase of East-West har-East of Europe and the West of 
mony. also harked back to the Europe should notlearn tolive 
superpower rivalries of 9ld. together in peace;• he said. 

Saturday, <Dece111ber 10tll ill tile La<Fortu11e <Ballroo111 

Come ~ee your favonte ho day das~ cs. 
9:00pm Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer 
10:00pm National Lampoonls Christmas Vacation 
11:45 pm The Year WithoutaSanta Clause 
12:30 pm Scrooged2:15am Frosty the Snowman 
2:45 am The Grinch Who Stole Christmas Popcorn and soda will be served. 
Everything babsolutely FREE. 
Christopher to Arafat: Stop militant attacks 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher served notice on PLO Chairman Vasser Arafat Tuesday that he must put a stop to Islamic militants' attacks on Israelis if he expects to spread Palestinian self~rule across the West Bank. 
Christopher also reassured Israel's hard-pressed govern· ment that the Clinton adminis­tration considers Arafat's secu­rity pledges "absolutely funda~ mental" to peacemaking. The government is in the throes of deciding whether to pull Israel's army out of Arab towns on the West Bank in the midst of a long siege of attacks on Israel soldiers and civilians. 
In the same vein, Christopher urged Syrian President Hafez Assad in a 4 1/2-hour meeting in Damascus to make a public declaration denouncing murder of innocent civilians, a senior 
U.S. official said. Assad said he would consider it, the official told reporters as Christopher took his latest Mideast shuttle to Israel from Syria. 
Assad is believed to have told President Clinton when they met in October that he deplores terrorism, but the Syrian leader did not make such a declara­tion at their joint news confer­ence in Damascus afterward. 
Clinton had a 55-minute tele· phone conversation with Assad last Sunday. 
Syria allows a number of ter· rorist groups in its territory and permits them to operate from bases in Syrian~controlled ar­eas of Lebanon, said the senior official, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity. 
The American emphasis on a need for security is intended to encourage Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin to con· tinue to relinquish territory to former Arab foes. Rabin is un· der intense political pressure from critics of his policies. 
A senior Israeli diplomat said Tuesday night that in light of the violence, "there is no rea· son to be in a hurry about going ahead" with Palestinian self· rule. 
And after Dennis Ross, Christopher's senior Middle East adviser, reported on 
Christopher's meeting with Assad, the diplomat. who in· sis ted on anonymity, said nego­tiations with Syria could col· lapse if there is no break~ through by the end of 1995. 
Some 70 Israelis have been killed in attacks this year, about 50 of them within the borders that preceded the 196 7 war in which the West Bank, Gaza, the Golan Heights, East Jerusalem and Sinai were cap~ tured. Sinai was returned to Egypt under a 1979 peace treaty. 
In 1993, Rabin agreed to give the PLO administrative control of Gaza and the town of Jericho on the West Bank and to extend PLO self-rule throughout the area. Arafat, in turn, pledged to maintain security and to pro· teet the nearly 6,000 Jewish settlers in Gaza. There are 120,000 on the West Bank and about 12,000 on the Golan Heights, which Assad wants to recover. 
"It's clear that unless there is security the fundamental com· mitments cannot be met," Christopher said in response to a reporter's question at Ben Gurion airport. "Without secu­rity they cannot properly go forward.'' 
He did not mention Arafat by name, but his message clearly seemed aimed at the PLO leader. 
Asked if Israel should with~ draw its army from the West Bank, Christopher replied: "That's a decision that will have to be confronted by Israel over the next weeks and months." Seemingly sympathet­ic to any Israeli hesitation, 

· Christopher said the spate of violence against Israelis "would have to be taken into account" by government leaders. Christopher will fly to Gaza City on Wednesday to meet with Arafat, fitting him into a fast-paced two~day schedule of Middle East shuttling. 
U.S. officials said the purpose was to discuss the transfer of control of taxation, health, edu­cation and some other Palestinian self-rule powers from Israel to the PLO. 
They are likely to get into stickier issues, also. These include the doubt that is spreading that Israel's army will withdraw. 

Fill Your Head ... 
Counseline Gives You the Information You Need. 

Counseline: 
lx7793 

Counseline is an audiotape information service sponsored by the Psych Club and the University Counseling Center. Counseline offers information on stress, anxiety, relationships, depression, self­esteem, eating disorders, and anger. Look around your dorm for our list of tapes. The phones are open Mon-Thurs 4pm to 12arn. We are here to provide you with the information you need. 

Wednesday, December 7, 1994

page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Russia's Arctic struggles with nuclear legacy 
Ali Vakili Rad, 35, of strangling .-------------------------------------------------.... 
By DOUG MELLGREN Associated Press 
MURMANSK, Russia 

Aboard his nuclear-powered icebreaker, Capt. Anatoly Gorchevsky raised his vodka in a toast "to the friendly atom." 
! 
' It's a friendship that many fear is about to turn ugly. Murmansk and the surround­
ing Kola Peninsula is one of the 
,. 
most nuclear-intensive places on the planet. 
The harbor is home to nuclear-powered warships, submarines and icebreakers; the waters are marked by nuclear-powered lighthouses; on land there's a nuclear power plant and a nuclear test site; nuclear warheads are in profu­sion both at sea and on land. 
Much of it is in poor repair. Radioactive waste is stored ships so rickety they can't be moved from their moorings near downtown Murmansk, the Arctic's largest city with about a half million residents. 
The power plant is regarded by many as one of the most unsafe in the world. 
"There is a problem and it is acute. We just hope the central government recognizes this," said Yuri Titoyov, a Murmansk resident. "We can't just let all these ships stay in our harbors with all this waste aboard." 
Killer of ex-Iranian premier sentenced to life in prison 
By ElAINE GANLEY Associated Press 
PARIS 

Two Iranians were convicted Tuesday in the 1991 killing of former Iranian Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar in a plot that prosecutors blamed on Iran's theocratic government. A third Iranian was acquitted. 
The ruling could be difficult for France, which has given in to Iranian pressure in previous terrorism cases. 
Bakhtiar. the last premier under the Shah, was strangled and stabbed to death at his suburban Paris home while po­lice stood guard outside. He was one of 63 exiles killed or wounded since the Islamic Republic was founded in 1979. 
After a five-week trial, a spe­cial terrorism court convicted 
and stabbing Bakhtiar and his aide, Souroush Katibeh, with two accomplices who are still at large. 
Massoud Hendi, 4 7, a former Paris bureau chief of the Islamic Republic of Iran broad­casting network, was convicted of helping the killers enter France from Switzerland. He was sentenced to 10 years. 
Zeynalabedine Sarhadi, 28, an archivist at the Iranian Embassy in Bern who was charged with helping the killers escape to Switzerland, was ac­quitted. 
Before the verdict, defense lawyers appealed to the court not to use the case to pass judg­ment on Iranian state ter­rorism. 
They said their clients were victims of mistaken identity or dupes who had no connection to the government. 
Prosecutor Jacques Mouton last week called the plot, which stretched from Iran through Turkey and Switzerland to France, a ..perfect murder in perfect cold blood." He said the Iranian government was re­
two other killers, remain at large. 
Defense lawyers said repeat­edly that Iran did not help Vakili Rad during his three years in prison. 
Referring to France's 1990 decision to pardon Anis Naccache, serving a life sen­tence for an earlier assassina­tion attempt on Bakhtiar, the defense lawyers said they ex­pected Vakili Rad to serve the whole sentence. 
"No one gives a damn about Vakili," said lawyer Bernard Sansot. 
Vakili Rad claimed he super­vised Bakhtiar's National Iranian Resistance Movement in Teheran. 
During the Cold War, the Soviet Union built up a stagger­ing arsenal on the Kola, which borders NATO-member Norway and neutral Finland. 
The peninsula, about the size of Kentucky, is the base of Russia's North Fleet, with 155 nuclear submarines, including 71 derelict vessels, according to a report by the Norwegian en­vironmental group Bellona. 
Westerners estimate the Kola has up to 2,000 nuclear war­heads, plus the civilian "Atomflot" fleet of eight ice­breakers. 
And Murmansk environmen­tal officials generally go along with those estimates because they can't get such information from their own government. 
So the Cold War may be over, but nearby countries still feel a chill when they think about the potential environmental prob­lems just across the border. 
Norway has installed radia­tion detectors in its northern provinces and on Russian terri­tory to give early warning of a disaster. 
"We are close to an area that has a lot of radiation," said Per Einar Fiskebaek, of Norway's Finnmark county, which bor­ders the Kola. "It is clear that they have a huge number of boats out of service and prob­lems storing the waste." 
1995-96 Assistant Rector Applications 




University Residence Facilities 




Are Now Available! 
Office of Student Affairs 315 Main Building 
Through Friday, january 27, 1995 

APICar1 Fox 
Bellona's report said most of the 71 condemned submarines still have their nuclear fuel on board because there is no place to put it. 
"It is a big problem with both solid and liquid nuclear waste. It is a difficult problem that is of interest to the whole world," admitted Andrey I. Tumparov, director of ''Atomflot.'' 
Murmansk governor Yeveny 
B. Komorov -keen on dis­cussing Western aid for such projects as a tunnel under the Kola Bay and modernizing ship­yards-dismissed the danger. 
"There won't be any atomic catastrophes in this area. In connection with all the changes in our country, the ships aren't going out of our waters as of­ten," he said. 



GIGANTIC 
END OF SEASON SALE 



EVERYTHING ELSE IN THE STORE AT LEAST 20% OFF 

NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
SPECIAL HOLIDAY HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 9:00AM-4:00PM CLOSED AT 1:00PM ON DEC. 20 PARK ON LYON'S BASKETBALL COURTS IF ON CAMPUS 
NO OTHER DISCOUNTS APPLY 

Instead, he said with a Cold War twist, the danger is from the United States. Russia claims that a U.S. nuclear submarine intruded on Kola waters this month. 
"Why are American sub­marines with atomic reactors and weapons up here? A colli­sion up here can result in a cat­astrophe," he said. "It's not us who are going to Florida. They are coming to us here." 
The Kola Nuclear Power Station nearly suffered a melt­down in February 1993, when back-up power to its cooling systems failed, said Ragnar Vaga Pedersen, of the Norwegian government moni­toring station on the Russia border. 
"It is considered one of the four or five most dangerous plants in the world," Pedersen said. 
The plant provides 60 percent of the Kola's power and closing it would be a disaster for the region. 
Bellona claimed that atomic warships and weapons are poorly maintained by under­paid, demoralized soldiers, and that security at nuclear storage facilities is lax. 
About two-thirds of the nu­clear waste ever dumped in the world's oceans lies ofT the Kola, according to Bellona's report. 
The waste includes 17 nu­clear reactors and at least one submarine, although joint Norwegian-Russia expeditions have found little radioactive contamination. 
The Soviet submarine Komsomolets, which sank in 1989, is rusting at the bottom of the Norwegian Sea. It still has nuclear weapons and fuel on board that some fear could threaten rich arctic fishing grounds. 
Even when Russia stopped offshore dumping and slowed transport to a reprocessing cen­ter in the Urals, waste ac­cumulated on land and on ships. 
"Some of the storage facilities are overfilled," said Ludmila Amozowa, of the Murmansk County environment committee. 
The icebreaker Soviet Union shares a wharf with five old ships, each laden with atomic waste and highly radioactive nuclear fuel rods. 
"They are storing waste on ships that are so rusted that they cannot be moved," claimed Pedersen of Norway. Others said the ships were in good shape. 
Environmentalists fear that a fire or sinking of a storage ship could trigger a major nuclear accident on the Kola. 
sponsible.
Six suspects, including the .______________________________________________________________________________________________________. 



OINT 
Wednesday, November 7, 1994 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ................... ~ ........ Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager. ..................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scort Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............•.. Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accuratc:ly and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• I AM NOT APOTTED PLANT 
The 28th Amendment: A 'Bill of Responsibilities' 
We've had four major upheavals in our history. The first was at our found­ing; we responded with the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. The second was the Civil War; the Civil War Amendments banned slavery and gave "equal protection of the laws" to all peo­ple. The third crisis was the Great Depression. 
I think our fourth major national cri­sis, ongoing since the late 1960's, is a lack of national direction and purpose. As a nation, we haven't agreed on any. Since society has no unifying purpose, we look for meaning in our individual lives. But humans are social animals by nature. The solution is not more free­dom, but for each of us to take re­sponsibility for our lives, and for the fed­eral government to become responsible for its behavior. To that end, I suggest the following Constitutional Amendments, which together I would call the ''Bill of Responsibilities. " 
I. For each fiscal year during peace­time, the federal government's budget must be balanced, unless Congress, by a vote of 60% in each house. specifically authorizes deficit spending, and the President approves of such spending The Congress may enforce this provision by appropriate legislation. 
A balanced budget amendment would require the federal government to take responsibility for its own spending. Of course, no one wants to raise taxes, and no one wants to cut spending. Either or both must be done. To do nothing is the easy and most destructive way out. 
2. No person shall be eligible to serve more than three terms in the United States House of Representatives, unless it has been 10 years since that person's last term has expired, or unless the nation is in a state of war. No person shall be eligible to serve more than four terms in the United States Senate. 
Term limits can lead to greater responsibility among our Congressmen, but we should tread carefully here. The Senate should include experienced voic­es. Moreover, in the case of a national emergency, the nation should be able to call upon its best servants, whether or not they have already served three terms. 
3. The Congress shall have the author­ity to regulate all campaign contribu­tions and expenditures. so long as those regulations are applied equally among political parties. 
The Supreme Court has prevented Congress from legislating effectively in this area, out of concern for free speech. This concern must not allow our po­litical system to become warped by the power of money. 

Charles Roth 
4. Freedom of speech and of the press shall not be so construed as to protect defamatory remarks from civil lawsuits. 
The Supreme Court, in New York Times v. Sullivan, decided to protect defamatory speech in order to give "breathing room" to our free press. But the court did so by trivializing the distinction between truth and falsity, and by requiring plaintiffs to show not only that the allegation was false, but that the press acted recklessly or mali­ciously. Recent campaigns have shown how wrong this decision is. A free peo­ple need to hear truth, and we need to be able to trust our press. Requiring the media to take responsibility for what they write (and politicians to take responsibility for the ads they run) will cause us to respect these groups more in the long run, and will clean up our polit­ical system. 
5. The American flag is a symbol of this country, and as such may be pro­tected from desecration by state and federal legislation. 
I never thought that this should be in the constitution until recently. 
Protecting flag-burning-which serves only to excite emotions, to insult a sym­bol revered by many, and to make a negative statement about the govern­ment that protects flag-burners -is to protect irresponsible speech. This law would teach us to be responsible in our criticism of our country. 
6. States may ban the sale of pornog­raphy, and may define pornography, in legislation, by reference to any objective criteria. 
Regulating speech is difficult to do without compromising our first amend­ment freedoms. We must take care that legislation banning pornography doesn't hinder other speech. Hence, I would require some objective criteria in defin­ing pornography. But why, you ask, should we ban porn at all? Responsible sexuality acknowledges the other person as a human being. Pornography teaches the lesson that others are to be used to give us pleasure and then discarded when no longer useful. The harm flow­ing from this attitude surely requires no elucidation here. 
7. Religious invocations, symbols. and theories are not barred from the public schools. so long as their use involves no direct coercion. When prayers are said. provision must be made for those not wishing to participate. Parents may ex­cuse their children from any religious activities carried on in the schools. 
This would reverse a string of Supreme Court decisions, and would essentially remove the federal courts from these local decisions, except in the most egregious cases. School prayer not only reminds us that we are responsible to God for our actions, but reminds pub­lic officials and teachers that they have a responsibility not to trample on the religious beliefs of their pupils and citi­zens. 
8. Neither the state nor federal gov­ernment shall endorse the religion of any particular sect or creed. However. government may take special cog­nizance of religious beliefs, and in doing so, may favor religious beliefs over other interests. Governments may allow use of their facilities for the expression of the popular faith, so long as the activities are not coercive in nature. 
When the First Amendment was adopted, there were state-established churches in many states. State churches are a bad idea, since they harm religion and exclude non-believers. However, the simple recognition that faith is a good thing that deserves recognition by the government-when it doesn't impinge on the rights of others -is good (see Vatican II's Declaration of Religious Liberty). Moreover, it's necessary if we're really to have "Free Exercise." The benefit to government is that Americans will be better and more moral people. 
9. The right of privacy that inheres in a marital relationship between husband and wife does not apply to other sexual relationships. 
The "right of privacy" is not now in the Constitution; this, at least, would put it there. It would also define it and limit it. Sex within marriage is a responsible and (one hopes) loving act. Sex outside marriage-even in a lifelong monoga­mous relationship of faithful love (if such a thing exists, which I doubt)-is irre­sponsible because it includes no commitment. Commitment is needed both for raising children, and to sustain people emotionally. 
10. Human life begins at conception. States may take steps to protect life after this point. 
The greatest irresponsibility prevalent in today's society is our refusal to deal with the children we bring into the world. We destroy them rather than sac­rifice our pleasures, our lifestyles, or our freedom. This amendment would not only call upon us all to live re­sponsibly, but for our society to take up the responsibility of protecting human life from those who would end it. I'm not sure which responsibility is tougher to take up, but they are both necessary, for ourselves and our society. We cannot go on living as we've been living. It's time for a change. 
Roth is a second year law student. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 
MR.. 8/.fTT5, I 

NOW,7HEN,
MR. YO! I'M HOP& >W/?&A~ 
5/R! MN/1018lf77S? AUeARS/ Ul£7HAT~ 1'3MJR&5A­
\ "1}/(}{,6{ w ~

IFIAE T/~IN6,
NOWAMON6

CWU? MeNTHX~
AW&5,tvt;

5TART? !?&6tJIAI<?
q[JUM!GHT

/ HA~TOA51< 7H£OCtASKJV~ AL-TOI.X:ii 
(}(Jf35WN. 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'' A 11 I ever did was supply.1'-a demand that was pretty popular." 
-AI Capone 


VIEWPOINT
page !0 Wednesday, November 10, 1994 
• PEACE ON EARTH • KITCHEN AYE 
Amnesty Int'l remembers King 
In commemoration of the life and work of Martin Luther King Jr., one should remember the universality of his message: nonviolent action for equality, freedom from discrimination and a vision of harmony be­tween all people. This vision of respecting the rights of individ­uals has inspired many activists before MLK and continues to prompt many individuals and organizations to act with ur­gency in advocacy of these ide­als. 
Kathleen Beatty Faye K.olly 
Frightfully enough however. racial, religious, and gender discrimination are still preva­lent in the United States as in every single country in the world. Refugees continue to be denied political asylum, even though they fear imprisonment, torture or execution in their home countries. Men, women, and children are still held in detention without charge or trial. "Disappearances" and "death squads" have become household terms in many coun­tries. Torture and ill-treatment and executions are still wide­spread. 
Amnesty International is a worldwide organization that works for: 
"The release of all prisoners of conscience-those people imprisoned for their beliefs, 
race, sex, ethnic. origin, lan­guage, or religion-who have neither used nor advocated vio­lence; 
"An end to torture and ill­treatment and executions in all 

cases; "An end to extrajudicial exe­cutions and disappearance." 
In observance of Martin Luther King Day, Amnesty International invites you to ex­ercise your freedom and con­sider, for example, a case in Bangladesh. Whipping, burn­ing, and stoning have been tak­ing place in Bangladesh since 1992, with no legal authority. Local village councils, or salish, have ordered and supervised these punishments under Islamic laws, which are not on Bangladesh's statute book. Most victims have been women. 
Shefaili, age 14, became pregnant after a landlord allegedly raped her. Because she could not produce four male witnesses, she was sub­sequently sentenced by a salish in April 1992 to 100 lashes for admitting adultery. Her mother also received 100 lashes for accusing the landlord of rape, since the testimony of one woman is not accepted under Islamic law. 
Noorjahan Begum, age 21. who obtained permission from a village clergy for a second marriage because her first hus­band had abandoned her, was stoned, together with her new husband in January 1993. A salish had found their marriage illegal. They were buried up to their chests and then subjected to public stoning. Noorjahan di 
ed soon after. 
WHAT YOU CAN DO: 
Send appeals to: 
Prime Minister Begeun Khaleda Zia Office of the Prime Minister Dhaka, Bangladesh (Salutation: Dear Prime 
Minister:) Presidential Secretariat, Old Sangsad Bhaban 
Tejgaon Dhaka, Bangladesh 
• 
Welcome the fact that in February 1994 the case of Noorjam had been brought to justice by the government. 

• 
Urge the government to en­sure that salish bodies do not assume extra-legal judicial or law enforcement functions, and that law enforcement functions, and personnel found to have deliberately failed to protect victims are brought to justice. 

• 
Express your concern for the safety of past and future victims 


Writing a letter to the afore­mentioned country is just one way in which we can remind ourselves of the struggle that was Civil Rights-the life work of Martin Luther King Jr. Expressing your concern for those unjustly punished in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, is a way in which we can affirm 
' This vision of 
respecting the 
rights of individ­uals has inspired many activists before MLK and continues to prompt many individuals and organizations to act with urgency in advocacy of these ideals.' 
our belief in the universal rights of every person. 
Editor's Note: This is the third in a five part series of columns on Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
Don't let finals be your Grinch this Christmas 
CRUNCH TIME! It's that time ing that he did not even notice of year again sports fans. A the Little Prince. He wanted to season of holiday cheer and fi-count the stars so he could own nals. Ah yes, as we all lose them. When the Little Prince track of our friends and asked him, "And what do you become addicted to Mountain do with five-hundred millions of Dew, let us reflect on the mean-stars?" the man replied, "I own ing of the season. them... I am accurate... I am 
How many times have you concerned with matters of heard (or said to yourself), "All sequence." "The grownups are I have to do is get a 95 percent certainly altogether extraordi­onthefinalto nary," the 
get a C plus.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Little Prince 
What's to-thought. On d a y ? matters of Tuesday? I Frank consequence 
don't really the Little need to sleep Cristinzio 
Prince had 

'til ahh... Friday." Well, if this sounds familiar, I wish you the best of luck, and I know where you can purchase Vivarin wholesale. 
But listen, it's not worth killing yourself over it. OK, fi­nals are pretty important, you want credit for all the work you've put in and all. So do I, I can understand that. 
However, there are entirely too many stressed out people on this campus. The future of the free world does not rest on whether or not you get an A on your chemistry final. No, really, it might seem that way, but it doesn't. 
Lemme tell you about the Little Prince. The little prince was from a very small planet called B-612. (please bear with me) One day he decided to 
leave his planet b~cause ifwas too small. On his way to earth he visited another small planet inhabited by a businessman. The businessman was so preoccupied with his account-
ideas which 
were very 
different 
from those of the grownups. 
"Matters of Conse-quence." I guess that's what we're talking about here. This time of year we become more and more like the businessman who thought he owned the stars. The holiday season, both religious and secular, passes us by and we say, "Leave me alone, I'm studying for finals. I'm con­cerned with matters of conse­quence." 
I'm not trying to tell you not to study for your finals. But take some time out and relax a little bit. Put some lights up in your room. Make sure you take the time to write those Christmas cards. Life is too short to miss out on all the gop<:l.Jhings tbat the Christmas 
season brings. 
Study hard, but don't let finals be the Grinch that stole Christmas. Good Luck. 
Frank Cristinzio is a junior. He lives in Stanford Hall . 
• lETTERS TO THE Emnm 

With fans like Kelly, who needs enemies? 
The Fiesta Bowl's not a Time to support the Fightin' Irish 
Dear Editor: wore on, I became more and national following the Notre Jason Kelly revealed in his more disconcerted as I watched Dame does. Not even Colorado
'farce' to loyal Domers 
bitter, sarcastic Nov. 29 column the game from the stands. does. NO's addition to the Dear Editor: that he is just one of many Because behind me, fellow Fiesta Bowl has turned the 
Associate Sports Editor Jason Kelly's comments in his November Notre Dame students who have seniors were becoming in­game from a ratings loser to a 29, 1994 Observer article about the Irish Fiesta Bowl bid show his decided to withdraw their sup­creasingly vocal as they yelled ratings winner. lack of understanding of Notre Dame's bowl invitation . port for their home team. insults at Powlus, Holtz, and One of the realities of Notre 
I am not a Notre Dame alumnus. I am, however, a person who is What happened to the true others. And to my right, occu­Dame is that our football team able to make the best of an opportunity when it presents itself. loyal Irish fan? If the Fighting pying the best seats in the has a huge national following­
Would Father Malloy, when offered Notre Dame's top job, Irish are treated this way in house were unenthusiastic, haters included. They hate us decline because there might have been another priest who had their own newspaper and on quiet, sullen alumni and VIPs. because we win so often, they scored better on a seminary exam? Did the Associate Sports their own campus, imagine the What happened to fans giving hate us because we have such a Editor, when offered a chance to be part of NO's incoming fresh­write-ups we are getting in positive support to their team? clean reputation. And they hate man class, decline because he felt that "somewhere in this country places like Boulder, Colorado. True fans understand that us because we take advantage there has to be someone more deserving than myself?" Certainly With "fans" like these, who there will be rough times, even of our popularity by making not! By attending Notre Dame and being part of the Notre Dame needs enemies? for football dynasties like Notre smart business decisions. Like 
family, many believe that their own and others' lives can be en­This transformation of Irish Dame. Notre Dame fans are selling exclusive home game TV riched and opportunities increased. fans has occurred gradually spoiled. We expect to win every rights to NBC. Like negotiating The writing of Associate Sports Editor Kelly-labeling the Fiesta over the last couple of years. It game, and we expect a national on par with entire conferences 
Bowl bid acceptance as a "farce"-fits well with another of his began at the start of the 1993 championship at least once when forming the Bowl articles in that same Observer edition ("Holtz handcuffs ... "). Both season, when fans were quick every four years. Coalition. Like agreeing to play articles reveal a journalist style which appears to come across as to let it be know that they were Kelly states, "How refreshing in the Fiesta Bowl. somewhat arrogant and mean-spirited. Even though Kelly shows unhappy to be "stuck" with it would have been if Notre Instead of degrading your his lack of understanding of the importance of the Fiesta Bowl Bid Kevin McDougal at quarter­Dame officials had respectfully team during a difficult year, get for the team and ND, Coach Holtz and Father Beauchamp should back, because McDougal was declined the Fiesta Bowl's offer out and support them. Be not be maligned for their acceptance of an incredible opportunity. no phenom like Ron Powlus. and urged the game's represen­thankful that we have the op­
Remember 1991-92? The ''talk on the street" was that Notre Yet the underrated quarterback tatives to invite one of the many portunity to end this season on 
Dame had "no business" playing in the Sugar Bowl against quietly led his team to within a more deserving teams." Teams a positive note. I believe that Florida. However, with thorough preparation and determination, few plays of the national cham­like "Arizona or North Carolina we can beat Colorado, but only the Irish rose to the occasion, defeating Florida with an incredible pionship. Even in his one loss, or Southern Cal or Duke, just to with strong support from all of second-half effort. he engineered an amazing name a few. All are teams with us Fighting Irish fans. A few 
Did Joe Montana decline to play in the pros because he was not three touchdown comeback in better records and better rank­years ago, people said we didn't a Heisman winner at ND? Certainly not ! Indeed, he continued his the second half. ings-if not better reputa­belong in the Sugar Bowl
j 
hard work to become one of the NFL's finest all-time quarter­Many ND students, including tions-than Notre Dame." Is he either, and we proved them backs. In a similar manner, if certain members of the ND commu­members of The Observer really saying that these teams wrong. Take advantage of the 
nity view the Fiesta Bowl bid as anything other than an incredible sports staff, jumped off the fan should be in the Fiesta Bowl final opportunity this year to be opportunity, they do not fully understand one of the great gifts of bandwagon in November 1993. instead of us? supportive and positive about attending Notre Dame-that of being able to position yourself to This year, the true colors of the The Fiesta Bowl is a business our team. take advantage of an opportunity or gift when it is offered! "fair-weather fan" have been operation, just like every other 
STEVE YOUNG easy to see. Since it was my bowl. They require a high level MIKE FENOCKETTI 
Norre Dame Parenr senior year, I was fortunate of revenue to cover their ex­Senior enough to get great 42-yard penses. None of the teams on Alumni Hall line seats. But as the season Kelly's list have the kind of 
~--~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 




CCCNT 
Wednesday, December 7, 1994 Page 11 

By lAURA SMITH Accent Writer 
When students and faculty return to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in January, Martin Luther King Jr. Day will soon be approaching. What better way to celebrate than to attend Yolanda King's lecture "The Challenge To Insure The Future: Nonviolence As A Way Of Life" on January 17 in Washington Hall. 
As the oldest child of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King, Yolanda King has been in the midst of the struggle for human rights all her life. She has participated in numerous civil and human rights demonstrations and has spoken before countless reli­gious, educational, civic, and human rights groups. 
King is committed to using her talents in service toward humanity and has combined her involvements in social change with her artistic pursuits. She is currently Co-Founding Director of NUCLEUS. a company of performing artists dedicated to promoting positive energy through the arts. 
King's lecture is the first in a series of events to celebrate the Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday and the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns (CSC) theme of nonviolence. The CSC, in conjunction with Campus Ministry, Multicultural Student Affairs, and other campus organizations, has chosen a theme of nonviolence for this year. 
According to Iris Outlaw, the Director of Multicultural Student Affairs, "The Center for Social Concerns is for social change. That's why the strong thrust for anti-violence. It's about how we as individuals can impact that". 
Outlaw believes that involvement in CSC activities such as Christmas in April, Center for the Homeless, and tuto­rial programs promotes a change in stu­dents. "Some students will decide to do a few years of volunteer work before they enter the corporate mainstream. Other students choose to stay in the non-profit sector. The riches they gain go beyond money" said Outlaw. 
There are several potential plans for the spring semester to promote this theme of anti-violence. The Washington Seminar will conduct a lecture based on a theme of nonviolence. Other potential programs in support of anti-violence include, a visit to a jail, and student par­ticipation in the program "This Is My Neighborhood: No Shooting Allowed". 
According to Jay Brandenburger. Coordinator of Seminars and Justice Education at the CSC, ''The most excit­ing thing is the week of events surrounding the Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday." 
Members of student government, the CSC, the African Student Alliance, Multicultural Student Mfairs, and vari­ous other campus organizations have been meeting once a week for months to provide a week of events. 

Together these members have joined to promote and stimulate student aware­ness of anti-violence. Beginning with Yolanda King, other scheduled events include; January 20, students and faculty will have a chance to "Speak Out on Human Dignity and Justice". January 20, psy­chologist Dr. Beverly Vandiver will speak at the Counseling Center about growing up in a family com­mitted to civil and human rights, January 24, there will be a prayer service in the Basillica. 
Also planned, students will be interviewed in Debartolo about "Peace on Earth". The student 
r e S J? 0 n S e.S f r 0 m thiS in-Photo Courtsey of Campus Ministry te~VIew will be put togeth~r Yolanda King will be coming to Notre Dame January 17th wtth scenes from Martm to lecture in celebration of Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday. 
Luther King Jr's speeches.The final project will be shown in Debartolo and Lafortune. "In the past few years there have not been many events for Martin Luther King Jr. Day and many students have 
expressed their disappointment" said Brandenburger. He credits the collabo­ration of students, faculty, and the com­munity for the establishment of this years extensive programming. 
Brandenburger encourages students 
to attend these events. "The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities need to pay att~ntion to .these e.v~nts beca.use of thet.r Cat~ohc tr~dttton. Mart~n Luthe~ Kmg Jr. _s teac.hmgs are ~on~Istent. with Cathohc social teach­mgs he s~td. 
Accordmg to Bran~enburg.~r ..the P!anned e':ents are varted and tap mto dtfferent Sides of people, and everyone can gain from attending." 
By Peter Rubanis Accent Writer 
A, I, D, and S. Taken alone, these four letters mean very little. But put them together in this order -AIDS -and sud­denly you have a disease that people hear a lot about, but often know very lit­tle about. Thus, as a community, we find ourselves facing the idea of AIDS Awareness and the need for such educa­tional exhibits as Moreau Galleries' Frame ofReference: Responding to AIDS at Saint Mary's College. 
What is AIDS Awareness? AIDS Awareness is the term most often used to describe the movement to educate people about the disease of AIDS itself, prevention of AIDS and the HIV virus that leads to AIDS, and toleration for those individuals who have AIDS. 
AIDS Awareness can take any one of several forms. For example, Frame of Reference is a part of both the National Day Without Art and National AIDS Awareness Day, two national forms of AIDS Awareness. In addition, an open­ing reception for the Frame ofReference exhibit was held at the Moreau Galleries on National AIDS Awareness Day, December 1, with a video presentation by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's AIDS Awareness group. Refreshments were also served, and ribbons and fliers were distributed to those in attendance. 
Does AIDS Awareness exist in the Notre Dame I Saint Mary's community? To the extent that two organizations pertaining to AIDS are present in our community, yes. A few students also dis­play their individual support for those with AIDS by wearing a red ribbon on their clothing. 
But do we really have an awareness for AIDS as a community? Luke Mullany, a Notre Dame sophomore, said, "You never hear anything about AIDS here. I would have known in high school that last Thursday was National AIDS Awareness Day. The fact that I didn't know that here is a testament to the lack of conversation about AIDS on our campuses." 
Moreau Galleries Director Johnson 


AIDS awareness 
The Observer/ Cynthia EKconde Writing on the walls of the Frame of Referance at Saint Mary's College is an opportunity for individuals to remember and reflect on AIDS and what it means to us as a commmunity. 
Bowles would agree, "The lack of infor­mation about AIDS by younger people is amazing. AIDS can happen to anyone, even you and me. We all must be more aware of ways to prevent the spread of AIDS." 
So, if AIDS Awareness is so important, what can one do to increase AIDS Awareness in our community? Notre Dame student Tony Pohlen feels that education is the most important way to promote AIDS Awareness. He said, "Unlike some other diseases, AIDS is preventable. The only way to stop the spread of AIDS is through elimination of the unsafe acts that lead to the trans­mission of the disease." 
Education requires communication, however, and this is where the Frame of Reference exhibit comes into play. On the walls of the Hammes Gallery of Moreau Galleries. empty frames have been hung to symbolize the loss associ­ated with the AIDS disease. Students, faculty, and members of the community are all encouraged to reflect on AIDS and write their thoughts, questions, fears, angers, and hopes on the walls of the gallery. 
Approximately seventy-five to one hundred individuals had taken part in writing on the walls by the end of last weekend. These people have taken a variety of approaches to addressing the problem of AIDS. 
Many of the participants in Frame of Reference have responded to AIDS with fear. One person wrote "I have not yet been personally affected by AIDS. I know eventually I will be. That hurts." 
Another simply said, ''I'm scared... l wonder. .. Why?" 
Still others have responded to AIDS with anger. "AIDS sucks," reads one quote. "It's taking my friends. Think. Watch. Listen. Who will be next?" 
Perhaps most enlightening, however, is the number of responses on the walls that deal with AIDS in a hopeful and compassionate way. "Be open and sup­portive even if you don't agree with oth­ers' lifestyles," one quote reads. Another reads, "EVERYONE deserves a loving and caring environment." 
Still another says, "It's the hardest thing in the world to watch them die, but the BEST thing in the world to help them LIVE." 
Ultimately. what you gain from Frame ofReference is a sense of the very per­sonal nature of the disease called AIDS. One person simply wrote "We are all human; nothing more, nothing less." How true, yet it is so much easier to deal with AIDS compassionately when you have names and stories to put with the disease. 
Many of the stories on the walls of the gallery are very personal accounts of loved ones suffering from or dying of AIDS, John, Gerald, Tootsie, 14 year-old Jeremy, Ryan. Yes, AIDS does have an impact here in our community. We just need to be a little more aware of this impact. 
After viewing Frame of Reference, Saint Mary's sophomore Rose Maciejewski felt that "The exhibit was a very positive and appropriate way to approach the AIDS crisis. I was very impressed by some of the insight pre­sented on the walls." 
Writing on the walls will continue through December 16. Individuals, classes, and student groups are all urged to come participate in this unique opportunity to reflect on AIDS and what it means to us as a community. 
To set up a time for your class or group to participate, please call Johnson Bowles at 284-4655. Individuals are invited to come during regular Gallery hours Tuesday through Friday 10 A.M. to noon and from one o'clock to four, z Saturday 10 A.M. to noon, and Sunday afternoon from one o'clock to three. 
Additional information about AIDS and the HIV virus can be obtained by calling the CDC National AIDS Hotline at 1-800­342-AIDS (2437). 

Wednesday, December 6, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
.NBA 

42-point first quarter highlight Magic's win 
By CHUCK MELYIN 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 
Anfernee Hardaway scored 10 points and Shaquille O'Neal had nine .during Orlando's 42-point first quarter Tuesday night as the Magic beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 114-97. 
O'Neal and Nick Anderson fm­ished with 26 points each ­both on 11-for-14 shooting ­and Hardaway finished with 20. The Magic, whose nine-game winning streak ended with a two-point loss at Atlanta on Saturday, bounced back with a fury, running off the game's first eight points on fast-break 

' dunks by Hardaway and Donald Royal and two baskets by Horace Grant. 
O'Neal's hook shot midway through the quarter built Orlando's lead to double digits for good, and by the end of the period the Magic led 42-24 against a Cleveland team that had been allowing an NBA-low 
89.4 points per game. The Magic surpassed that total with 3 1/2 minutes left in the third quarter. 
The Cavs played shorthanded because power forward Tyrone Hill had the flu. Center John Williams played despite a sore hamstring that forced him to miss the previous game. 

Williams and Terrell Brandon scored 14 points each and Mark Price had 13 for Cleveland. 
The teams meet again Wednesday night at Orlando. 
Orlando shot an impressive 69 percent in the first quarter but was even more impressive from long range in the period, mak­ing five of its six 3-point shots. 
The Magic led 68-50 at the half, and after Cleveland closed within 14 early in the third quarter, Orlando ended all doubt with a 15-0 spurt that began with seven straight points by Hardaway on a three­point play, a 10-footer and a fast-break layup set up when O'Neal blocked a shot. 
Anderson capped the run with a short bank shot that gave Orlando its biggest lead, 87-58. 
Knicks 104, Celtics 90 
Charles Smith had 20 points and the New York Knicks shut down the Celtics in the second half, beating Boston 104-90 Tuesday night. 
The Knicks, who have won 
their last eight games against 
the Celtics, led by as many as 
20 points early in the final peri­od. Boston, which dropped its third straight. made only 12 of 36 shots after halftime. 
Dino Radja had 23 points ­13 in the first half -to lead Boston, which was outrebound­ed 54-28. Dominique Wilkins added 20 but was held to just 2 in the second half and didn't play the fourth quarter. 
Anthony Mason had 14 points and 12 rebounds and Herb Williams added 12 points off the bench for New York. Patrick Ewing had 11 points. 
Leading 79-60 to start the fourth quarter, New York didn't let Boston get within 10 points, even though Knicks coach Pat Riley didn't play his starters most of the period. 
New York, which had a 1­point halftime lead, opened the second half with a 22-8 run as the Celtics sputtered offensively and had trouble stopping Smith inside. Overall, the Knicks outscored Boston 31-13 in the period. 
After falling behind by 10 early in the second period, New York took advantage of another stretch of dreadful shooting by the Celtics to go on a 23-6 run. Smith had 9 points during the spurt. 
A basket by Mason put the 

Knicks up 45-38 with 1:39 remaining in the half. Then Wilkins, who finished the first half with 18 points, scored Boston's next 7 points. and Eric Montross' windmill dunk pulled the Celtics to 48-47 at halftime. 
Boston missed 15 of its 20 shots during the quarter after shooting 57 percent in the first period. 
Nuggets 102, Timberwolves 95 
Dale Ellis scored 14 of his 18 points in the second half and rookie Jalen Rose started a fourth-quarter rally Tuesday night to lead the Denver Nuggets to an 102-95 victory over the Minnesota Timberwolves. 
Rose scored six straight points -his first points of the game ­to turn a one-point deficit into an 88-83 lead with 6:08 to play. Rose's run opened a 10-1 spurt, capped by Ellis' baseline jumper, and sent the Timberwolves to their 12th straight home loss. 
Minnesota, which entered the game having won two straight, has lost all eight home games this season and hasn't won at the Target Center since beating the Clippers on April 6. 
After losing three in a row, the Nuggets have won three straight. 
Brian Williams had 17 points and 13 rebounds for the Nuggets. which opened the sea­son with a 22-point win over Minnesota. Rose finished with all nine of his points in the final period. 
Doug West led the Wolves with 25 points and Isaiah Rider had 23, 17 in the first half. Winston Garland had 14 points and 11 assists. 
Minnesota led 7 4-69 entering the fourth quarter, but Ellis and Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf hit 3­pointers in an 8-2 run to give Denver a 77-76 lead with 9:35 to play. 
The lead changed hands five times in the next two minutes, and Minnesota had its last lead, 83-82, on a basket by Sean Rooks with 7:25 left. Rose scored four straight free throws and then made a short bank shot to start the decisive run, which ended with the Nuggets up 92-84 with 5:09 to play. 
The ·Wolves, who had lost their previous seven home games by an average of 19.4 points, got no closer than five the rest of the way. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS 10-6m-sat pandora's books NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 233-2342 cool stuff cool store HITCH THE SKIES WITH AIRHITCH Carrib/Mex $189 FliT Europe $229, Coast to Coast $129. Call for FREE nrogram <:Jescription 800-326-2009 SHENANIGANS Christmas Concert SAT., DEC. 10 7:00 P.M. Washington Hall FREE ADMISSION tix avail. at Lafortune info. desk SENIORS SENIORS PICK UP WEEKLY BULLETIN FOR FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING RECRUITING-5UBMIT RESUMES NO LA TEA THAN nECEMBER 8 AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES Be a part of the NCAA Champion Fencing Team! One position avail­nble for any freshman or sopho­more. Rudimentary knowledge of Plectricity preferred but not required. Any interested party rlease contact Brian @ 234-8027 ILOST & FOUNDI ! OST: This is ridiculous, but some­how my coat was switched with ;mother woman's coat at the Grace formal last semester in April at Union Station. It was a black Ashley Scott long dress coat. If you think you may have the wrong coat, IP.t me know. Liz x1277 I OST: Bright blue Gortex jacket with green lining. Last seen at ~lorth Dining Hall. Please call Mike :-~t x2027 with any information. Generous reward for its return. lOST! II anyone has found a pair of per­~cription glasses, I could really use them. They are golden framed and have no nose pads. The perscrip­tion is really, really strong. If found call Mike at 634·3597. Did you find a silver cross pen in the Library? It has great sentimen­tal value and I would really like it back. Call 634-2665. No questions asked.  LOST: TEARDROP SHAPED AMBER EARRING FRONT SET IN SILVER BETWEEN NIEUWLAND & B1 LOT. CALL LESLEY 631-6387. LOST: Dinosaur-shaped pewter earring in or near DeBartolo on Tues. night 11/29. If you find it, please call Linda at 232-2739. FOUND: Fleece lined handmade mittens. Stop by 1 04 O'Shag. WANTED NEED HELP: FEMALE N.D. GRADUATE OR LAW STUDENT TO HOUSE SIT WITH 17-YEAR OLD FEMALE. APPROX. 6 DAYS PER MONTH BEGINNING MID JANUARY. CALL 219-277-5762 Need ride to Long Island for X-mas break. will pay expenses call Sean @ 277-7131 ATIENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF­MOTIVATED Students. The ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is currently interviewing students for Summer '95 management posi­tions. Earn money in excess of $10,000. Call now, 1-800·477-1001 for a campus representative. Wanted! Individuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING BREAK '95. Earn substantial MONEY & FREE TRIPS. CALL INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­800-327-6013 WANTED PARTIIME LAB TECH WITH CG EXP. SEND RESUME TO: BOX 4103 SOUTH BEND IN 46634 Starting at $12/hr! The Princeton Review is looking for people to teach our test preparation courses. If you've earned a high score on the GMAT, MCAT or GRE and would like to work 6-10hrs in the evenings and on weekends, contact us at: (800)865-7737. HOUSEMATE NEEDED $110/mo + utils-own bdrm-5 blcks frm cmps 289-3790 after 7pm FOR RENT Zepfest House '95-96. Free maid serv., sand V-ball ct.,6-bedrm. 273-0482 234-3831  NEAR CAMPUS HOMES FOR RENT 95-96 SCHOOL VR 232 2595 Looking for a male/ female room­mate in Castle Point. $ 280 + utili­ties, For Sp/95 272-1663 Your House for Spring semester is available now! Completely remod­eled 3-4 bdrm 2 BLOCKS from campus. Full basement • all new appliances, and monitored security system included! Single rooms or entire place available. Call Mike@ 233-9609 today! room for rent 2 blocks from the campus.on ivy rd,nice place,! need the money desperately. call 272-2163 200$ a mo. 1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL­ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 Bed 'N Breakfast Registry ­Private Homes JPW, Graduation 219-291-7153 WANTED: 5 students for beautifully remodeled home-Huge yard with oversized deck, security system, washer, dryer. 5 blocks from main circle. Available NOW for 2nd semester. 277-0636 Sublet 2BR Townhouse at TURTLE CREEK Next Semester! @Dayne X1945 1 BEDROOM HOUSE TO RENT FROM JAN '95 $225 PER MONTH CONTACT ROD@ 2397924 Univ Village 2bdrm 12/14/94-1/26/95 273-2923 FOR SALE EA HOCKEY for IBM 1994 players with trades, etc ... almost brand new, has all books and the registration form. best offer; call Tom at 4-1712 Super Sharp 3 Bdrm. Approx 3/10 mi S. of N.D. @ 1018 N. Eddy. Why waste rent, build equity. Low $30's. Call for showing! 271 ·81 00 Steve Weldy-ERA Brokers Assoc. 1986 HYUNDA EXCEL FOR SALE GOOD STEREO $750 CALL ROD @ 2397924  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85.900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616) 946-0700. AT&T WORD PROCESSOR 4SALE X1913 Child Craft crib 'n bed wit~ mat­tress. $250. Walnut dining room table w/4upholstered chairs,$300. Oak kitchen table w/6 chairs, $300. Color TV. $25. Kenmore range, $250. 272-8219 (home) 1-8313 (work) TICKETS Buy/sell FIEST A BOWL tickets. Great seats available. We buy and sell concerts, sports, & theatre tick­ets. VISA, MIC, AMEX. Ticket Exchange Inc. since 1981 800-800­9811 FIESTA BOWL TICKETS GOOD SEATS PERSONAL Yeah Lewis 4W Piglet, LoveBunny,.Action, Jules, Bridal, & Crown Point-Happy Christmas From All Of Us! From: Danish, Crazy Hot Man, Crazy Headrush Man, and all the other crazies E. Barry, Sleep through any exams lately? My guess why is way too much Neil Diamond late at night. -Hey SCOTI BACZEK! ­-Yeah Beavis! figure this out-You wired me awake And hit me with a hand Of broken nails; You tied my lead And pulled my chain To watch my blood Begin to boil; Too cold to start a fire I'm burning diesel Burning dinosaur bones; And you you know what? I'll take the river down To stillwater and ride A pack of dogs ... But I'm gonna run...  Some very hot women live in Lewis 4W Things you always wanted to know about PLS but were too afraid to ask ... What does "PLS" really stand for? 1 . Probably Law School 2. Pretentious Little Sh-----5 3. Please Let us Smoke 4. Probably Loves Socrates There will be a confidential support meeting at SMC for all lesbian, bisexual, and questioning women tonight at 9:00 call 287-6665 or 284-4063 for more information ........................................ 4th Day 4th Day 4th Day 4th Day Join us at a vigil mass for the Feast of the Immaculate Conception ...AII are welcome especial!)' those from NDE #33! 7:30 pm Wed. Stanford/Keenan Chapel .. .fulfills Holy Day of Obligation ... See y'all there! .......................................... We're Open Early, Late, & Weekends!!! 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808 SOPHOMORE MALE SEEKS OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FOR SPRING SEMESTER CALL SEAN 703-931-6864 OR PAGE ME AT 1­800-706-3255. ........................ Wish your friends a nifty holiday season with an Observer personal. The final paper of the semester is Dec. 9, and the deadline is 3pm, Dec 8. Good luck on finals!! The Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert. Saturday, December 10 8:15pm, JACC Gate 10 admission $2 • all proceeds bene­fiting the South Bend Center for the Homeless • Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk, the Haggar College Center Information Desk, the JACC Ticket Office, and the Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office.  Come by Cactus Jack's and see what's brewing. Visit the Cantina and shoot some pool, or watch th& game. Bring in todays observer and receive $1.50 off any purchase. Expires today. Love, peace, and tacos! Going to Madrid next semester through SLU? Call Liz 634-1277 or Amy 284-5169 Need a ride from and maybe to Iowa for break 4333-Jim SENIORS SENIORS PICK UP WEEKLY BULLETIN FOR FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING RECRUITING-sUBMIT RESUMES NO LATER THAN DECEMBER 8 AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. SABOR LATINO Friday, Dec. 9 10 pm Club 23 SABOR LATINO anyone need a ride to long island/nyc area for break-call mike 271-9471 •••••••••*AUDITIONS!!!**•••••••• AS YOU LIKE IT Wed and Thurs., Dec. 7 and 8 7-9 pm, 115 O'Shag Top 10 quotes from the Wild Wild Life 10. Tailgate ajar! Its a-jar! 9. Commence automobile petrole­um intake now 8. 1-2-3 look! 7. I want my milk! Did you hear me order that? 5. Cameo appearances at the twin towers. 4. Grand theft squeegee. 3. I SWEAR you don't need an I.D.to get in. 2. Skating through the spew at Nick's 1. Has anyone seen my pants? To the tools of St. Ed's from the Banana Man Fan Club-Kirsten I have your turtles and you can't have them back. You better hope I passed , or else Dom The warrior will return to fight another day ... or the turtles will die. Patrick Grogan gets chicks  
:  ~----~~~  -­ 

--~ 
Wednesday, December 6, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• Cm.1EGE BASKETBAll 
Up by 30 at halftime,

IU coach Knight pessimistic 
Duke cruises against GW
By MIKE EMBRY range. what was going to happen." 
Associa[ed Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 

Indiana coach Bob Knight doesn't believe his team is ready to take on No. 7 Kentucky this early in the sea­son. 
"I don't see much good for us," he said of Wednesday night's game in Louisville's Freedom Hall...We're not in a position where we play a team like Kentucky at this point. We just can't. 
"We've got to work and scratch and scrape and execute better to be able to play them." 
Indiana (2-3) is coming ofT an 84-63 victory over Evansville last Saturday while Kentucky (2-1) fell 82-81 to No. 2 UCLA in the Wooden Classic. 
"This will be another great battle for us," Kentucky coach Rick Pitino said. "It always is. I think it brings out the best defense and the best play by individuals." 
Indiana turned in its best effort of the season against Evansville, holding the Aces to only 33.3 percent from the field and 22.2 percent from 3-point 
"They definitely improved with the Evansville game," Pitino said. "They played great defense." 
Forwards Alan Henderson 
(23.0 points) and Brian Evans 
(19.4) lead Indiana in scoring. The Hoosiers will start three freshmen in forward Andrae Patterson (10.2) and guards Charlie Miller (2.6) and Neil Reed (8.2). 
.. I think anytime you play a lot of freshmen you're going to have a start like this," Pitino said of the Hoosiers. "When they're talented freshmen, they're only going to get better. And by midseason the fresh­men will become sophomores with all that experience." 
Knight is trying to prepare his team for conference play. 
"We're going to do everything we can to get ourselves through December, where we can play competitively in the Big Ten," he said. "But we're just not a good basketball team." 
Pitino also said it will take time for his team to develop this season. 
"I said early in the season that we'd take some losses early in the year," he said. "I'm just predicting (the) reality of 
Pitino said the loss to UCLA didn't hurt his team's confi­dence. 
"I think they're very disap­pointed, which is a good sign," he said. "I think they realize we beat ourselves in that game. You can-take a loss when you give credit to your opponent, and we did credit UCLA. But when you throw the game away yourself, and beat yourself, that's what hurts the most." 
Pitino said the Wildcats need to be more productive from the 3-point range to free up the inside players. They have hit 20 of 50 attempts (40 percent). 
"We passed up about five wide open 3s (against UCLA), and that's hurting our halfcourt game because it's allowing peo­ple to go after our post people more," he said. 
Forward Rodrick Rhodes (13.7), guard Tony Delk (13.7) and forward Walter McCarty 
(13.0) are Kentucky's leading scorers. 
Center Andre Riddick has a lower back strain and may see limited playing time against Indiana. 
By DAVID DROSCHAK Assod<Jted Press 
DURHAM. N.C. 
. ­
Cherokee Parks scored 19 of his career-high 29 points in the first half as No. 9 Duke put ona shooting clinic in downing George Washington 103-73 Tuesday night. 
The Blue Devils (4-1) sank 11 of their first 13 shots in the opening 6 1/2 minutes, and led by 30 points at halftime after shooting 65 percent. 
The Colonials {5·2). expected to challenge Duke after upset­ting No. 19 Syracuse earli~r in the season. became the'9lst straight non-ACC team to lose atCameron Indoor Stadium. 
It. was apparent from the start George Washington couldn't match up against Duke's quickness and outside shooting. Nor could the Colonials handle the· versatile 6-foot-11 Parks, who used his height advantage to shoot over smaller defenders from the outside. 
Duke came into the game shooting better than 47 per· cent from 3-point range, and attacked the Colonials from the outside. The Blue Devils sank eight of their first JO shot~ 
-
from long range to help open their big frrst-half lead. Parks. who had 27 points against Northeastern on Nov. 
26. sank eight of nine· shots in the first half and scored 11 of his team's first 23 points as Duke raced to a 23-9 lead less than 6 minutes into the con­test. 
The Blue Devils used a 23-2 surge over a 7 -minute stretch ofthe first half to take the score from 13-9 to 36-11 with 
9:37 left before intermission. Parks closed the run with a 15-footer. 
At one point in the first half, Duke san~ three 3-pointers in a span or1:05. 
Parks made 12 or 13 sh()tS before missing a short jumper with 9 minutes left. 
The Colonials used a late 18-. 4 spurt to make the score respectable, 
Trajan Langdon added 17 points off the bench for Duke, which hit 12 of 19 3-pointers. 
NimboHammons led ·George Washington with 22 points. 
Duke is only the second team to score 100 or more points against the Colonials in 126 games under coaeh Mike 
Jarvis. . it 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING, 
• 
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 

• 
lWO BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE 

• 
WASHER AND DRYER IN FACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT • 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 232-8256 
• Nfl 
Blakemania dies in Cincinnati 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI ---8iakemania didn't tast very long. The giddiness over Jeff Blake's emergence a month ago has reverted to grimness this week. It now appears that all the talk about the Cincinnati Bengals turning the corner with a new quarterback was wishful thinking. A 38-15 drubbing Sunday by the Pittsburgh Steelers made everyone realize that not even Blake's gripping success story could turn the Bengals into a satisfying team, let alone a win­ning one. Fans who packed Riverfront Stadium on a rainy afternoon to cheer their new hero put their heads down and started filing out silently when Rod Woodson intercepted a poorly thrown 
SeniorOass 



Free Food Nite 
at Senior Bar 

Please bring in donations ofnon-perishable food items, or clothing, for the Senior Class food drive. Items will be collected at the door. 
pass by Blake and ran it back untouched early in the fourth quarter. 
By the end of the game, Steeler fans easily drowned out the few remaining Bengals fans. The locker room, which rang with chants of "8-and-8 with Blake" a few weeks ago, was downcast. It looks like it will be a struggle to match last season's 3-13 record now. 
"It was the toughest day of the season," a still-grim coach Dave Shula said a day later. 
The toughest part was realiz­ing that Blake is no longer a miracle worker. He didn't look much at all like the AFC's top­.ranked passer Sunday, com­pleting only 8 of 19 -the fewest completions by a Bengals quarterback this sea­son -for 156 yards. 
Reminder: It was only his sixth career start. 
''I've got a long way to go as a starting quarterback, but I'm getting better each week," Blake said. 
His numbers aren't. He threw for 387 yards and 354 yards in consecutive wins over Seattle and Houston, setting off Blakemania. He has thrown for 207, 215 and 156 in the last three weeks, all losses. 
On Sunday, he threw two interceptions that were turned into touchdowns and fumbled on one of his five sacks. Mter throwing just one deflected interception in his first three starts, he has thrown four in the last three. 
Blake looks at it as a bump, not a dead end. 
"We've just got some­thing holding us back right now," he said. "I don't know what it is." 
That's basically the same thing quarterback David 
Klingler said the first eight weeks when the offense kept coming up just short. Klingler had no answers; Blake doesn't, either. 
Although Blake is still outper­forming Klingler and is still the starter, he's running into the same handicaps that Klingler faced: a weak offensive line and no running game. It wasn't all the quarterback's fault when the offense struggled be~ind Klingler; it's not Blake's fault now. 
Everyone is starting to won­der exactly how much to expect from Blake, a third-year pro who had virtually no game experience until five weeks ago. Was Sunday's three-turnover game just an off-day, or was it an indication of something? 
"I don't know if it's reality or not," Shula said. "Five games of averaging 376 yards of offense -you'd have to say maybe that's reality. Maybe this (Pittsburgh game) is an aberra­tion. That's what we're going to have to find out. 
"Jeff is basically going through his first year in the league as a regular starter. We're finding out more and more things about him as we go through." 

Recycle The Observer 
-

• 
Wednesday, December 6, 1994 page 14The Observer • SPORTS 
• ICE DANCING

CBS signs contract with 
NCAA through 2002 Torvill and Dean remember past glory 
By jOHN NELSON and basketball; Big East foot­By BARRY WILNER was a benchmark for us to go Even though Torvill and Dean Associated Press ball: the Fiesta, Orange and Associated Press through all that we had to go won the European champi­Cotton bowls; the Army-Navy through." onship, Gritschuk and Platov
NEW YORK 

game, and the 1998 Nagano AMHERST, Mass. VVhat they went through was took the free dance there. ThatCBS Sports, the big loser of Olympics, for which it paid a The bitterness and disappoint­a complete change in their pro­delivered a message to T&D.
1993, topped off its comeback Winter Games-record $375 mil­ment of the Lillehammer fessional lifestyles. For nearly a "It was a very difficult time year Tuesday with a $1.725 bil­

lion. Olympics still hasn't faded for decade, Torvill and Dean for us, because of the ad­lion NCAA deal that keeps the 
In addition, the network Torvill and Dean. Maybe it toured with their own show and justments we had made and
Final Four on CBS through 

extended its contracts with Big never will. 
skated in only a select few pro then discovering that other2002. 
Ten basketball, and the PGA From the beginning of the 
events. Until the International couples were being allowed to
Carrying the highest total 

Championship and PGA Tour, Games, the English stars who Skating Union opened the sport do things we were advised wepricetag of any TV sports rights both for four more years mesmerized the skating world 
by allowing pros a one-time could not," Torvill said. deal ever made, it replaces a through 1998. CBS also created with their 1984 gold medal per­
reinstatement, Torvill and Dean After the Olympics, the ISU seven-year, $1 billion deal that boxing and figure skating formance at Sarajevo never had 
were considered skating leg­called a news conference to
still had three seasons to run. · 

series for its Saturday "Eye On a chance. The crowds, the ends. explain the judging, particu­"1994 has been a very busy 
Sports" anthology. media and many of the other 
Then, suddenly, they were larly how several lengthy sepa­and exciting year for CBS Besides the men's Division I skaters lauded them. But the 
competitors again, seeking to rations by the Russians ­Sports," CBS Sports president basketball tournament, the new judges, making a last stand do the routines that stretched clearly against the rules ­David Kenin said. 
NCAA agreement includes against a flood of rules 
the parameters of ice dancing were ignored. The explanations The NCAA deal comes nearly 
rights to the College World changes, created a backlash 
and popularized what previous­came off as lame.
12 months after CBS lost the Series final, the Division II against many returning profes­ly was considered more exhibi­Thankfully, the Olympic expe­NFC portion of the NFL con­men's basketball tournament, sionals. 

tion than sport. What they did rience has not turned off Torvill L tract to Fox, capping a year of NCAA outdoor track and field, The biggest victims were was entertaining and athletical­and Dean to all competition. In
infamy in which CBS also lost and women's gymnastics Jayne Torvill and Christopher ly difficult, and the public fact, they are intrigued by thethe rights to major league base­CBS will televise the Division I Dean. 
noticed. burgeoning schedule of eventsball. 
women's basketball champi­"The whole thing last year, I But much of the lifts and spawned by the 1994 Olympics. 
"There was a terrific and gen­onship this season but will drop think there was so much resis­moves the pair created had "It is something very new foruine sense of loss at this time it thereafter. The women's tance to the professionals com­been deemed illegal by the ul­us," Torvill said. "Afterlast year," Kenin said, "but it championship is expected to be ing back," Dean said as he and traconservative dance judges. Lillehammer, we did not antici­was tempered with a lot of pro­picked up by ESPN beginning in Torvill prepared for their only "We've been very much a part pate doing any competitionsfessional activity.... I think we 

1996. competition of the season, of creating our environment again. We had done enough.
felt that anything was possible. 

In total price, the new CBS­Tuesday's World Team Figure 
with our shows," Dean said. We thought at some time we"We knew we would go after NCAA deal breaks the record of Skating Championships. "And 
"Then you open yourself up to might do a professional compe­things and be aggressive, and $1.58 billion Fox paid for the there were certain power fac­taking a lot of shots, because tition, but we had no plans to
that we would win many of 

NFC. Covering eight seasons, tions within the skating fra­
you are going into someone do anything like this, becausethem and lose some." the basketball deal is worth ternity and amateur fraternity, 
else's arena. When it was our these international team eventsThis year alone, CBS has slightly more than $215 million and with the strong political show, it was our atmosphere didn't exist. 
acqujred rjghts tg SEC fggtball 

per year, while Fox's NFL deal leanings, I don't think there 
and our audience. Torvill and Dean realize their averages about $395 for four was anything we possibly could 
"But when you get back into role in the recent popularity
Women 

years. have done to have won that 
the amateur world, it is some­explosion for figure skating has "We started a couple of event. 
one else's and you feel a little been minimal. And they worry
continued from page 20 

months ago with discussions, "In retrospect, because of the bit exposed." about the future of the sport. 
reviewing our current con­result and everything else, the 
The duo put together a ball­"I think it is great so much Keisha Kelly. Averaging 25 tract," Dempsey said in a con­notoriety went up for us. The 
room salute to Ginger Rogers skating is on TV," she said. points per game, she likes to ference call from Kansas City, awareness, because of the criti­
and Fred Astaire that was con­"The only good thing to come drive to the basket and is a se­Mo. CBS indicated a sincere in­cism leveled at the judging at servative for them, but well out of all the Nancy and Tonya
rious threat on offense. terest in extending it. It was the time, built from the begin­within the rules. Then they controversy is that it has McGraw is certain that done in advance of what is usu­ning to the end of the competi­
were shocked to find Oksana become so much more popular.
defense will be key to winning ally done, but our relationship tion. We were seriously ques­Gritschuk and Evgeni Platov of But hopefully there won't be an 
the game. In the last home tioning wisdom of our
with CBS guaranteed them the the Russia doing a rollicking tribute overkill.
• 
, f game, Notre Dame lost a heart­right to discuss a new contract choice to compete, but at the to Chuck Berry that included ~ I breaker to state rival Purdue. before we talked to anybody end of it, we felt we accom­
the kinds of maneuvers Torvill It depends on the quality of McGraw cited defense as the else. plished something 10 years af­and Dean were told to elimi­the events they put up."major factor in the loss. "One very exciting part of the ter the previous Olympics. It 
nate. "We've played some tough new agreement for us is imme­teams so far," Poor said, "but I diately being able to enhance 
If you see

think we've learned from our "This will be one of the best
revenues to membership and at 
Rexing

mistakes." things that has ever happened
the same time to secure for the 
Sports hap­

to me," Hexing added. ''I'm
next eight years a sizeable continued from page 20 
really excited about racing
amount of resources for that 
finished 70th overall with a against national class competi­
pening, call 

membership." 
time of 31:59.3. tion." As for heading to England in "Getting to go over and spend 
Dempsey said 85-90 percent 
The Observer 

March, Rexing knows that it a weekend with the top
of the NCAA's total revenue will be an experience to re­American runners can only
comes from its TV basketball 
at 631-4543

member. help," Hexing said. 
contract. 
I 

OFTIIE 
CUI~t·E 
N<::EPIION 
I 0/ld'/o-/o-~~~ 0/ld'~w~~~ 
J 
Barbara Ballasty 
Thursday, December 8, 5:00 p.m. 
l 
I 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
! 
! 
Father Edward Malloy, C.S. C., Presider 
..... 
.• . 
. , • I . 

Wednesday, December 6, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

Consequences felt after Monday Night game 
Raider's win vaults them back into playoff hunt 
Associated Press 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. 

How big was the Raiders' vic­tory over the San Diego Chargers? Big enough that the once out-of-the-playoff-picture Raiders can actually win the AFC West. 
A week ago, it took the most optimistic among the Raiders to see anything but despair in the final month of the season. 
Now, after beating San Diego 24-17 on Monday night, the Raiders see good things in their immediate future. 
By denying San Diego's attempt at clinching the AFC West Division title, the Raiders suddenly put the division cham­pionship back into question. 
San Diego has the upper hand at 9-4, two games ahead of the Raiders, Denver Broncos and Kansas City Chiefs (all 7 -6). But the Chargers have the toughest finishing schedule of any team in the AFC playoff race. 
They play San Francisco (11­2) and Pittsburgh (10-3) at home, with a trip to New Jersey to play the Jets (6-7) in between. The three teams are a combined 27-12. 
The Raiders, who appeared to be so much on the outside look­ing in after losing to Pittsburgh 21-3 on Nov. 27, may instead have the inside track to not only the playoffs but a division title. 
They have shots at the other two second-place teams from the AFC West. Denver is at the Coliseum Sunday, while Kansas City visits on Dec. 24. In between, the Raiders visit the 5-8 Seahawks. 
And all three of those teams have potential or current quar­terback problems. 
Denver's John Elway is limp­ing on a sprained knee. Seattle's Rick Mirer is out for the season with a broken thumb. And Kansas City's Joe Montana has a sprained foot and sat out Sunday's loss to Denver. 
Raiders quarterback Jeff Hostetler, who sustained a con­cussion against Pittsburgh, had his left hand stepped on in the San Diego game. But X-rays were negative and he's expect­ed to play Sunday against Denver. 
FIESTA BOWL PACKAGE 
$169.00 

•2 NIGHTS/2 PERSONS HOTEL ACCOMODATIONS 
•FREE AIRPORT SHUTTLE AND GAME TRANSPORTATION 

•GAME DAY BREAKFAST BUFFET 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL (602) 273-1211 RODEWAY INN-AIRPORT WEST 


$26.00 EACH ADDITIONAL PERSON/MAX 4 PERSONS PER ROOM NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER 
What a difference a week makes. 
"It felt good last night and today," coach Art Shell said Tuesday. "But now we're trying to catch up and get prepared for Denver. We really don't have any time to reflect on this win."· 
Shell stressed the Raiders had gotten the message about play­ing best when it mattered most. 
"December's here and they know if we win in December, we've got a pretty good chance to be in the tournament (play­offs), which is what we're striv­ing for," he said. 
The Raiders have asserted themselves for the first time in a season that began 0-2 and 1­
3. They have won five of their last seven games and the schedule appears to favor them. Their final three oppo­nents are 19-20. 
But there remains one nega­tive should the Raiders wind up in a tiebreaker for the AFC West championship. San Diego finished division play 6-2; the best the Raiders can do is 5-3. 
The Raiders came out of the Monday night game with no significant injuries, and there was little to dim their en­thusiasm Tuesday as they be­gan preparations to play the Broncos. 
"Anything can happen now (in the AFC West)," said tackle Gerald Perry. ''I'm just glad we're in the equation." 
Have some­thing to say? Use Observer classifieds! 
Inconsistency continues to plague Chargers 
By BERNIE WILSON 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
It wasn't always this tough for the San Diego Chargers, once the hottest team in the NFL. 
Since starting 6-0, the Chargers haven't won con­secutive games. Their latest loss was 24-17 to the Los Angeles Raiders on Monday, which kept them from clinching the AFC West title. 
The Chargers (9-4) still need just one win for their second division championship in three seasons. 
But their schedule isn't easy, starting Sunday with a home game against the San Francisco 49ers. The NFC West champi­ons (11-2) have won eight straight games. 
"We have no choice but to come back," coach Bobby Ross said Tuesday. "I believe that we can, yes." 
After the 49ers, the Chargers' remaining games are at the New York Jets (6-7) and at home against the Pittsburgh Steelers (10-3), the best team in the AFC. 
The Chargers realize they blew a perfect chance on Monday. Instead of celebrating a title in front of a record crowd of 63,012, they stumbled again offensively and allowed the Raiders to have one of their best offensive games of the sea­son. 
Now they must face another big-play bunch, the 49ers, led by Steve Young and Jerry Rice. 
"Personally, I hope that we are depressed right now," Ross said. "I want people to take defeat hard. 
Did you know that listening to .... 
Tim O'Neill's 
new 60 minute solo piano Christmas album 
has been proven to increase your chances ofgetting that extension for your paper that is supposed to be due tomorrow? 
Cassettes and CDs available at: LaFortune Info Desk, ND & SMC Bookstores, the Country Harvester (They make great gifts for anyone!!) 
. . 

.•o.n··mim <J'·~et~~IS ..c.;MStill~~•·•~~§s~lf~'~:r·...em 
•• CQ~pon[di:~~~~!t!~~~ih~~~~~Jiii 
"We'll go through our day of mourning, which is today, then we're going to be ready to come back and go to work tomorrow. We've bounced back from this type of thing before and we can do it again." 
With the offensive line start­ing to show wear and tear. the Chargers were beaten up front. Running back Natrone Means was held to 41 yards on 18 car­ries, his lowest output of the season. 
"Offensively, we're not a one­dimension team," Ross said. "We can't line up and go into a game and throw the ball proba­bly 50 to 55 times a game and be successful. We've got to get our running game going. And it starts with just sheer out-block­ing. I mean, you do have to block." 
Quarterback Stan Humphries bruised his right thumb when he hit it against a helmet late in the second quarter, but returned to the game. Still, he completed only 17 of 33 passes for 202 yards and one touch­down, with two sacks. 
"Stan, for the most part, didn't have enough time," Ross said. "In some situations we could have made the throw, and we missed on a couple of things. All in all, we need to be able to get it done better up front." 
Left guard Joe Cocozzo, nurs­ing a sprained foot, was in for only 13 plays. He's been unable to practice for more than one day each of the last three weeks, and will be listed as doubtful. If he can't go, the candidates to replace him are third-year pro Eric Jonassen and rookies Isaac Davis and Vaughn Parker. 
Left tackle Harry Swayne has a sore knee, center Courtney Hall has had knee and arm injuries. and right guard Joe· Milinichik has had knee, back and elbow problems. 
"It's starting to have a little 
effect. But I'm reluctant to say these things because often times people start to imply that these are excuse making," Ross said. 
I!{.iii;:I )-i ~] ;l j bi lf·i~i .J I JM t!flllf!l3; •'i:!il·t3:I I ·f.S:•l·Vf·i :l :tt3:I 
KEY WEST 

1 1/·iI!4 :I !·\1J4;13;l 44:1 
• PER PlRSOH DEPlNDING ON DESTINATION 1BREAK OATiS ILENGTN Of STAY 
t.:.8Qc:l-SIJ~Cit4S·E
........... 
... 

~===::::::::::::::::::::=~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::!JtTOLL F~lf lloiFol'WATIOJIII & ~Siil'\fATIOJIIIS 
. ' 


\ ' .
' 

I 
i 
i 
page 16 Wednesday, December 6, 1994
The Observer· SPORTS

l 
•NHL 

) 
l Suprise tax proposal by owners causes setback 


I By MIKE NADEL Associated Press
I 
r) 
CHICAGO 

I 
NHL labor talks broke down 
Tuesday, with both sides agree­
ing only that prospects are slim 
for salvaging the season. 
Commissioner Gary Bettman said the sides were "too far apart on substance" regarding salary arbitration, free agency and rookie salary cap. 
He said negotiations ended even before owners introduced a 25 percent "modified contri­bution proposal" -previously called a luxury tax -on teams that have payrolls exceeding $18 million in what would be the agreement's first year. 
The players felt negotiations were going well and the sides were close on most issues before the owners dropped the tax bomb. They consider the tax a form of salary cap and 

} have said all along they would never accept an agreement that includes it. 
j 
NHL Players Association exec­

1 
utive director Bob Goodenow said the tax proposal was "counterproductive" and "seri­ously endangers the prospects of a deal and the prospects of a season."

' 
j 
No talks are scheduled before the NHL Board of Governors meet Monday in New York. 
The owners could decide then to become the first in pro sports ever to cancel an entire season because of a labor dispute. The 1994 baseball season was the 

t I 
first to end that way. 
However, the NHL owners simply could instruct Bettman to make his best deal with what's currently on the table. Or they could set a "drop dead" date and see how the players respond. 
Regardless, the parties involved Tuesday acted as if the season was over before it be­gan. 
"It's probably the most disap­pointing day of my career," Toronto Maple Leafs general manager Cliff Fletcher said. "If it ends up that I was part of the process that results in hockey not being played for an entire season, it would be a tremen­dous black mark." 
The lockout, in its 67th day, began Oct. 1 on what was sup­posed to be opening night. 
It is generally believed a col­lective bargaining agreement must be in place by mid­December if there is to be a "meaningful" 50-game season. 
Now, NHLPA president Mike Gartner said, it doesn't look like there will be a season at all. . "I can't see us going any fur­ther than we've gone," the Toronto forward said. "We've given them everything they wanted. We've made a tremen­dous amount of concessions along the way and right now the owners are being gluttons about it. They've been gobbling up everything that we've been giving and now they're saying we want more, more and more. 
"We've given everything so 
far ... and then a tax on top of that, I don't think so. And that's why I say that I think the chances of a season happening if they stick to their tax plan are close to none." 
Early on, owners asked for a 200 percent tax on clubs that exceed the average NHL payroll level. That figure dropped to 122 percent, but players refused to negotiate it. To get the players bargaining again, the owners took the tax off the table until bringing it back Tuesday at 25 percent. 
at $800,000. Players at first wanted no rookie cap and then offered to have one at $1.5 mil­lion. Owners wanted a $700,000 limit. 
The union said salary arbitra­tion should be binding; owners wanted it to be non-binding, meaning a team could cut a player after an arbitrator makes a decision. Of the three main issues, this remained the most contentious, but Miller said there appeared to be room for compromise across the board. 
But, he said, Bettman -who came from the NBA, where the salary cap has been viewed as the solution to league problems -was intent on instituting such a system in the NHL. 
"Obviously, we were a little 
NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
RECRUITING DATES: February 1, 2 and 3 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
bit apart on a few issues, but overall the framework was there. The big difference was Gary Bettman was dying to get this tax on the table and he pulled it out with flying colors today," Miller said. 
"From the outset, we told them we're not here to ne­gotiate a cap. We were negotiating in good faith on the (other) issues and for them to throw a tax on top, we think is too onerous. 
Bettman said the sides were far enough apart on all issues, especially arbitration, for nego­tiations to end. He said only then did the owners introduce the tax plan. 
"We were simply too far apart to close the gaps, and the play­ers told us that they had gone as far as they could," Bettman said. 

( 

RIElTIVJE THJE TRTIUMJPH~ ~ ~ November 13, 1993... #1 vs. #2... The Game of the Century... cap­tured in a full-color poster depict­ing the Irish defense shutting down the Seminoles. Irish Impact II post­ers now available at the Bookstore, the LaFortune Info Desk, and the South Bend Center for the Home­less. Only $10 each. Makes a great holiday gift! 
' il 
"\ 
) 
I I r All proceeds benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless 
Advertisement space donated by Notre Dame Student Government 

a
a 
Y I I I 1 1 f I 

Wednesday, December 7, 1994 page 17
The Observer • SPORTS 
-

• Nfl •NBA 
NFL free agency Clipper's losing streak continues 
By KEN PETERS threw away another game, picks the Clippers have enjoyed Associated Press 115-83 to Charlotte. -because of steady losing 
The outlook was bleak even records -has developed into LOS ANGELES before the Clippers started NBA stardom.
system approved 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS The NFL's free agency system was given the blessing of a fed­eral appeals court on Tuesday. The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejected an appeal by 26 players and upheld a federal judge's approval last year of a legal settlement that created the system. 
U.S. District Judge David Doty in Minneapolis had ruled that the labor agreement announced in January 1993 was "fair, reasonable and ade­quate" to the players who had filed a class-action lawsuit challenging the league's old, Plan B. free agency system. 
A three-judge panel agreed with Doty. 
The players had argued that the court had erred in certify­ing them as a class and that they were inadequately repre­sented. 
A federal jury ruled in 1992 that the Plan B system was ille­gal, prompting the league and the players to negotiate a new system that includes nearly unrestricted free agency for players with more than five years of league experience. 
Doty gave that plan prelimi­nary approval Feb. 26, 1993, but dozens of players and for­mer Philadelphia Eagles owner Norman Braman filed objec­tions with the court. 
Tonight is the night 
to be 
"mindied" 
Happy 2151 
Love, Amy, Anne, Claudia, Julie, & Kelly 
The Los Angeles Clippers have been associated with losing so long that another defeat usually doesn't make any difference. Until now. 
On Wednesday, a home Joss against the Milwaukee Bucks will tie the NBA record for futil­ity at the start of a season. 
"Everybody's so frustrated. We all know the streak is hang­ing over us and we all don't want to be remembered that way," said Matt Fish, one of the Clippers' centers. 
Under veteran coach Bill Fitch, the Clippers are 0-16, a loss to the Bucks away from tying the league mark set by the expansion Miami Heat in 1988. 
The Heat was 0-17 before finally winning the 18th game that season against, you guessed it, the Clippers. 
"The momentum is killing us and we don't want to Jet it spread," Fitch said. "You have to act like a winner until you win, and keep a sense of humor." 
How bad is it? The Sports Arena was less than half-full with an announced crowd of 7,492 Monday night when cheerleaders tried to bouy home crowd enthusiasm by tossing free Clipper T-shirts into the stands. Many fans threw them back. 
The Clippers, meanwhile, 
training camp three months ago. Then they lost center Stanley Roberts to an Achilles tear in the first exhibition game. 
Guard Gary Grant had arthro­scopic knee surgery, then a staph infection. Earlier this week, the Clippers placed back­up center Elmore Spencer on the injured list because of "apparent emotional and per­sonal problems." 
The Joss of Roberts and Spencer have left the Clippers with a trivia quiz center tan­dem: former CBA players Fish and Bob Martin. The over­matched pair combined for a woeful six points and two re­bounds against Charlotte on Monday night. 
The loss of players is nothing new to the Clippers, of course. The few quality players they've had in recent years have been lost to free agency, trades or injury. 
All-Star Danny Manning went to Atlanta last year and is now at Phoenix. The Clippers got high-scoring Dominique Wilkins in exchange, but only for a third of the 1993-94 season. Wilkins went to Boston as a free agent. 
The entire Clipper backcourt left as well, playmaker Mark Jackson to Indiana and Ron Harper to Chicago. 
Other than Manning, no one from the numerous high draft 
Fitch in his previous NBA jobs took woeful teams and devel­oped them into winners, includ­ing a situation not unlike the current one. In his rookie coaching season, the expansion Cleveland Cavaliers lost their first 15 games. Under his guid­ance, losing franchises became playoff teams at Cleveland, Houston and Boston. He won one NBA title directing the Celtics in 1980-81. 
Meanwhile, the Clippers' lat­est loss gave them a franchise record 20th consecutive defeat stretching back to last season. The franchise has had just five winning seasons in a quarter­century of existence. 
Two of the better years came not that long ago. Coached by Larry Brown, the Clippers made the playoffs and nearly upset Utah in 1991 and Houston in 1992, losing both first-round series 3-2. 
One of the stars of those teams, now playing again under Brown at Indiana, is Jackson. 
''I'm very blessed to be out of here," Jackson said after a vis­iting Indiana team routed the Clippers recently. 
Jackson said the blame for the fast decline of the Clippers the past two seasons has to be shared by disinterested players as well as bungled manage­ment. 


Student Government is making an effort to see that this university stays committed to ensuring that every qualified student has the opportunity to attend Notre Dame, regardless of financial status. 
We need to know what YOU think about ND's 
Financial Aid, whether or not you receive any. 
PLEASE FILL OUT A FINANCIAL AID SURVEY TODAY AND RETURN IT TO THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE OR TO THE ENVELOPE IN YOUR DORM!!! 
Off campf.!S: Pick up your survey in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. 
.... 
.. 
-

~----~~~----------------------------------­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 6, 1994 

I 
l l 
f ... 


I 
u 
{ 
I 
I 
j~
;1 
I ,) 
iJ " 
,lj 
I
I; 
'i$
J., 
' r ),!li 
j~ .... 
j' 
• NFL 

Krieg finds life after Seahawks with Lions 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
There used to be a saying when the late Bobby Layne was quarterbacking the Detroit Lions: "Bobby never lost a game, he just ran out of time." 
Time after time, the hard­drinking, fun-loving Texan would rescue the Lions. With Layne in control. the Lions went to the NFL championship game four times in the 1950s. They won three of them. 
Krieg was asked to crank up his rusty arm Nov. 6 in Milwaukee when Scott Mitchell broke the bone in his right (non-throwing) wrist in a game against the Green Bay Packers. 
Since then, the 36-year-old Krieg has been sensational. He has passed for 1 ,069 yards and 10 touchdowns, without a sin­gle interception. In the process, Krieg has revitalized the Lions' offense. 
"When the guy under center performs well, this team has the ability to score points," Detroit coach Wayne Fontes said. "He knows the offense and he moves the ball around well. He's a 15-year veteran that's good to have in there at this point in time." 
When he came on in relief of Mitchell, the Packers staked themselves to a 38-14 lead heading into the fourth quarter. But Krieg, passing for 275 
yards and three touchdowns, almost pulled the game out. 
Since then, the Lions have won three of four, including a 34-31 victory over Green Bay on Sunday. The late charge has Detroit (7 -6) back in the hunt for the NFC Central title. The Lions play the Jets in New York on Saturday. 
"The quarterback is making this offense better and better as we go," Fontes said. "We have skilled people and we have a team that can score." 
The most skilled of all, of course, is Barry Sanders. He is the NFL's leading rusher with 1,594 yards and has a chance to become only the third player in NFL history to run for 2,000 yards. 
"I've been around some great athletes," Krieg said. "But this guy is something extra special. I'm very impressed with him." 
But opponents had begun crowding the line, trying to take Sanders out of the game. Krieg's passing success ended that practice. Sanders ran for 237 yards in a 14-9 win over Tampa Bay. He ran for 188 yards Sunday in the win over Green Bay. 


"They know we can pass now, and teams are not crowding the line of scrimmage anymore," Fontes said. "As a result, Barry is able to run better." 
Fontes also likes the way Krieg handles himself, both on the field and in the clubhouse. He is a communicator. As the team takes the field, Krieg is constantly chatting with his receivers, making sure they know what he has in mind. 
He keeps the coach posted, too. 
"Krieg is just a cagey veter­an," Fontes said. "He comes to the sidelines and has good sug­gestions." 
The Lions looked like they were going nowhere with Mitchell. He arrived with an $11 million contract and there were high expectations for him even though he had only seven previous starts. 
Mitchell had 10 touchdown passes, but 11 interceptions when he was injured. Chances are Fontes would have given him the hook, even if Mitchell hadn't been hurt. 
"It saved me the decision, the way it happened," Fontes said. "But Scott Mitchell is still the future of this club." 
For the present, however, Krieg is the man. The Lions' stretch run for a playoff berth rides on his arm. 
"I think Krieg makes us bet­ter," Fontes said. ''I'm not going to dance around the question. He's totally in the game. He knows why we do things. 

99 cent lunch special at Really Poppin 11 a.m.-2 p.m.-·--­
Sleeping Beauty Puppet Show 1 & 3 p.m. Magic Show 2 p.m. Have your picture taken with Santa for only S6 

Tickets $6 General Admission $3 Students Available at LaFortune Box Office 

~~ 

~~~~~~[~!~ 
Aikman returns to face Cleveland 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 

IRVING, Texas 
The Dallas Cowboys won their last two games without Troy Aikman. It appears they'll get a chance to win the next one with him. 
"It's good to have our general back," wide receiver Michael Irvin said. "We've been putting up some points without him. Now that he's going to be back, there is no reason why we can't really put up some points." 
Aikman missed two games with a sprained left knee but was in charge of the team Tuesday as the Cowboys pre­pared for Saturday's game against Cleveland in Texas Stadium. 
"I plan on playing," Aikman said. 
Third-stringer Jason Garrett won against Green Bay on Thanksgiving, and second­stringer Rodney Peete led the team to victory Sunday against Philadelphia. 
Peete said he knows his role and doesn't expect to play against the Browns. 
''I'd like to play, but I hope he's feeling well enough to play because this is his team," Peete said. "When I came here I knew the only time I was going to get to play was when he couldn't go." 
Aikman, who might play with a knee brace on Saturday, hates sideline duty. 
"I remember the last time I l\"\'ll~':-)(!l'\1 had a sprained knee, I was held out five weeks and could have played in two weeks," he said. 
Aikman still simmers over the incident. It was three years ago and the Cowboys started their playoff run without him. Steve Beuerlein got on a role and then-coach Jimmy Johnson wouldn't start Aikman, who said he was ready. 
Finally, in a blowout by Detroit, Aikman got to see sec­ond-half, mop-up duty. Johnson later apologized to Aikman, who then led the Cowboys to back-to-hack Super Bowl victo­ries. 
"I know my body and my body tells me when I can play," Aikman said. "I believe I can play." 
Coach Barry Switzer said Aikman can take as long as he wants to decide. 
"If he runs out of that tunnel on Saturday and -poof-says he can play, then that's enough notice for me," Switzer said. "He doesn't need that much practice time." 
Running back Emmitt Smith said the team needs Aikman, despite the success of the reserve quarterbacks. 
"It's very important that we get him back before the play­offs," Smith said. "We've got to gel and get in rhythm for that playoff run. We need him in there." 
It's already been a busy week for Aikman. He opened a restaurant in Dallas Monday night and moved easily from guest to guest without a limp. 
Celebrate a friend's Birthday with a special Observer ad. 


NOTRE DAME
Some roundball,.anyone? 
Women's Basketball 

----vs.---------------­
MICHIGAN STATE 
FREE ADMISSION! with student ID 







T\1f>.~~'S toR mas£ 8\G 
I \1C>P't. SANTA 
Ht.lPI~\:s ME. tN~£\..OP£5 
\X>t.'5N:i T\-11<.cW 
MA\l M'{ ONl.'( 140\..0 
\.\\~ BN::.~ QIJT
lETitRTD Po. CO\JPL~ 
'fl~EN ~£ GET'S IT. 
SAt{f'fl.. 1-\\Jt-lORED 
Pt>.G£'S. -rnr..~ 
W~'( I US£0 
A eox. 

;_~i7,~ 
·~~· 7 • 
•" 
:;·~·· J 
.. .·': 
DILBERT 
Tf-1AN K YOU FOR COMING ~ TO THE '' ISO qooo " e
cl

PROJECT KICK-OFF ~ 
"Well, it was a private table." 

~ver 'et Somebody lotolly Waned! 
j 
MEETING 
(
\. 

-·· 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Chief 5 Opposite of fem. 
9Carries on 14 "That's a laugh" 15 Capital on the 
60th parallel 
16 Newbery­winning author Scott 
nTied 18 Object of devotion 19 Playwright Maxim 
20 Three-time Wimbledon champ 
23 Kind of image 24 Swordsman 
27"Jane-" 28 What a vacuum vacuums 30 Car radio feature 
31 Goal 33 Brouhaha 35 Scurrier 36 "Ruthless 
People" actor 40 Account exec 41 Prof.­
(ex-academic) 42 Swindle 43 Things to be 
hedged 45 German river 47 D'Urbervilles 
lass so Triathlon competitor 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~ 
< 
~ ~ 



E.AC~ 0!= YOU WAS 
HAND-PICKED BY 'YOUR M.ANAGE.R FOR THIS PROJ'ECT 
BECAUSE. ... 
52 Cultural 54 Longtime role 
for Shelley Long 57 June honorees 59 Golf stroke 
60 Popular cookie &1 Norman's motel 62 Soprano 
Te Kanawa &3 City south of 

Salt Lake City 64 Cubic meter &s British weapon && Actress Carol 
DOWN 

1 "Beg pardon" 
2 Desolate 

3 Sundae garnish 
4 Parked, at 
O'Hare 

5 Rippled fabric 
& Mount 
7 Type of 
machine 
8 Mozart 

compositions 
9 Miscreant 10 Cherishes 11 Plumb 12 Lodge 
member t 3 Stone or 
Stallone 21 Pay back 22 Showing a 
preference 25 Smooth, in a way 

AU.. I  CAN Sf>..'{ \<:>,  TillS  W\-lft.-I~T  
'(EA~ 'SAN.Th 1-1.~0  ~~  '"E. NOOOLE  
B£.NR BR\1'¥;  \NC\OENI?  
E'JER'{~\NG ON.  ~  
\'#.'{  \..IS\!  lVt  ~  
8££N t.X.iR£.tllt.l'{  
GOO\:> P..\1. '{U.R .'  
~  
IZ.·l  
SCOTT ADAMS  


26 Cable network 29 Grenoble is its 
capital 32 Humiliate 34 Beat 36800 37 Current 38 Some rubes 39 Kind of exam 40 Diamond stat 44 Ebbets Field 
·hero Duke 

46 Terminate a 53 Hakeem termination Olajuwon score 48"High-" ssi.O.U. 
(1941 film) 56 Several 
49 Filter 57 Literary 
51 Minnesota Fats monogram 
stroke sa Squeal (on) 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Friends Don't Let Friends Drive Drunk 
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
DECEMBER IS NATIONAL DRUNK AND DRUGGED DRIVING (3D) PREVENTION MONTH 
-•• &. ',. '. , ". k .. 
~ ... -.-.. ,-'·~ ...... !_ 

HAVE A SAFE 0-1-2-3 HOLIDAY SEASON 
0 = Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically dependent, or on certain medications, or pregnant. 
1 = One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking. • 2= No more than two drinks per day, and never daily for women. 3 = No more than three drinks per day, and never daily for men. 
•Right before and during a woman's menstrual cycle, the hormone fluctuation may. slo~ down the liver's oxidation process, resultmg tn a need to space one's drinks out over a longer period of time, such as one drink per 1 1/2 hours. 



I~ 



)i 
li 
~· 
fl 
t 
·~ 
J 
~ '1­
n 
ji 
1 
} 
! :P j; 
r 
I 
J· 
~ 
SPORTS 
page 20 · Wednesday, December 6, 1994 
Despite tough losses, Irish look to rebound against Michigan State 

Transition 
defense key 
tonight against 
Spartans 
By K.C. GOYER 
SportS Writer 
'That which does not kill us makes us stronger.' If so, the women's basketball team has been getting quite a work-out. And tonight at 7:00 p.m., Michigan State will endure the fruits of Notre Dame's labor. 
The Notre Dame women have suffered hard fought losses at the hands of three highly ranked teams in its last four games. The competition has hurt the team's record but strengthened its abilities. The new and improved Fighting Irish squad is eager to get a win against the Spartans in the JACC arena tonight. 
Coach Muffet McGraw expects an up-tempo game from MSU. In practice yesterday, the team spent time working on transi­tion and man-to-man defense in anticipation of Michigan State's ability to run and push the ball 
up the floor. 
"Michigan State is definitely heatable," co-captain Carey Poor said, "We just have to put forth a solid effort and stop the transition game." 
Poor was named to the All­
Tournament team this weekend 
when the Irish traveled to 
The Observer/ Rob Finch 
California for the Newport
Sophomore Beth Morgan and the Irish look to have a solid effort tonight against Michigan State at the 
Beach Marriott Classic. Poor
JACC. 


The Observer/Rob Finch 
Jeannine Augustin 
grabbed 8 rebounds in the 
championship game. 
Michigan State has strength as 
an experienced team with three 
starting seniors. Notre Dame 
has one senior on the roster, 
co-captain Letitia Bowen. 
Bowen is a major factor in the 
Irish's ability to outrebound 
their opponents, averaging 11.3 
boards per game this season., 
Although the team has been 

outscored three times in four I 
games so far this season, Notre. Dame has yet to be outrebound­ed. 
Coach McGraw has comment­ed in the past on the team's depth at post. Sophomore's Rosanne Bohman and Katryna Gaither will back up Bowen and Poor, and have already scored double digits otT the bench this 
season. 
The player to watch on the Spartans' squad tonight will be 
see WOMEN I page 14! 

Rexing aims for world title Strayhorn commits 
Freshman runner qualifies for world champi­onships 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
There are moments during a young athlete's career that only help to provide a glimpse into the future. 
For freshman cross-country runner Jason Rexing, this past weekend gave an idea of things to come. 
The freshman finished second overall at the U.S. Cross Country Junior Men's champi­onship held in Portland, Ore., with a time of 25:25. For his effort, Hexing has qualified for the world championships to be held in Durham, England in early March of 1995. The com­petition is for runners 19 years of age or younger. 

"I was really pleased with how the race turned out," Hexing said. "I ended up feeling strong in the last two miles." 
The native of Worthington, Ohio finished 11 seconds be­hind Stanford sophomore Greg Jimmerson as the pair dueled over the 8240-meter course. Rexing started the race slow as his breathing became heavy in the first couple of miles. 
"I started out pretty conserva­tively," Hexing added. "I was about 25th after the first mile." Hexing gradually moved into the lead group as the pack reached the three-mile mark. 
That's when Jimmerson began to surge ahead into a lead that 
to Irish next season 
he would not relinquish. 

The last eight miles saw a dogfight for the second place spot. As Hexing turned on the afterburners in the last mile, he managed to finish one second ahead of the third-place run­ner. 
"You can't begin to rank the positive effects this will have on Jason, both as a runner and as a person," Irish head coach Joe Piane said. "These type of ex­periences, in big-time events against big-time runners, will help his development as a com­petitive runner." 
Rexing helped the Irish to fin­ish 14th as a team at the NCAA championships this season and 
see REXING I page 14 

Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame's first major re­cruiting weekend has produced the first of what many expect to be an intensive list of major prospects. 
Defensive back Mario Strayhorn, a 6-foot-2, 190­pounder from Princeton High School in Cincinnati, is the fourth high school player to commit to the Irish for the 1995 season. Strayhorn joins tight end John Cerasani of Schaumburg, Ill., kicker Kevin Kopka of Hollywood Hills, Fla., and Jenks, Okla. defensive line­man Jerry Wisne. Strayhorn committed early Sunday after­noon. 
Strayhorn was one of 21 
prospects to visit the Notre Dame campus over the week­end. An aggressive defender who can play both safety spots and cornerback, Strayhorn recorded 100 tackles and five interceptions this season. He made 91 tackles as a junior. 
Strayhorn is among the top three safety prospects listed by Tom Lemming, editor of the Prep Football Report. 
Strayhorn carries a 2.5 grade point and scored a 770 on the SAT. He chose Notre Dame over Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio State, and Penn State. 
National signing day is Feb. 2. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

t 

of note... 
....~.. Tale of two Quarterbacks 
Dave Krieg makes his mark in Detroit, 
Look for an upcoming preview of 
while Troy Aikman returns to face Browns 
Women's Volleyball 

page 18 




