

Tuesday, February 1, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 80 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Candidates prepare to do battle 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
At 12:01 a.m. Monday morn­ing, campaign signs for student body president and vice-presi­dent began to appear all over 
campus. Today, on day two of the campaign, the candidates will present their platforms and debate the issues in the LaFor~une Ballroom at 7 p.m. 
In alphabetical order the can­didates are: 
• 
Morrissey junior Bryan Corbett and Breen-Phillips ju­nior Karen DuBay; 

• 
Grace junior Brian Coughlin and Walsh junior Maria Capua; 

• 
Morrissey junior David Hungeling and Fisher junior Matt Orsagh; 

• 
Howard junior Erin King and Sorin junior Deitz Lefort. 


Corbett, junior class presi­dent, and DuBay, Breen-Phillips co-president, plan to reform the "winner take all" course selec­tion system by providing stu­dents with two DART times. They also plan to open "The Pub," a late-night club in LaFortune which would offer students entertainment, food and drink. 
"We're hoping to provide more opportunities for interac­tion for the students," said Cor­bett. 

Corbett and DuBay also pro­pose "I.M.P.R.O.V.E.", an In­ternship Mentor Program to Reach Out for Valuable Experi­ence. "I.M.P.R.O.V.E" would include a library of interships and a directory of alumni will­ing to serve as mentors. A Stu­dent Review, student course evaluations without any faculty intervention, is also included in their platform. 
"We have realistic goals, and of course we want to continue the great projects already start­ed" said Corbett. 
Coughlin, vice-president of Grace, and Capua, co-president of Walsh, plan to implement "Safe Ride," an after-dark shut­tle service for students from the outer parking lots to their dorms after dark. 
"We've checked into using Center for Social Concerns' (CSC) vans. The vans would take you right to your dorm," said Coughlin. 
They also propose an in­crease in campus study space, the creation of a faculty mentor program, and the distribution of personal "Req Sheets" which would explain a student's progress towards university and major requirments. 
"We're doing new ideas that have not been tried before. They are all feasible," said Coughlin. 
Hungeling and Orsagh plan to dissolve student government and cut its budget in order to fund a Grateful dead concert. 
"We definitely want to use all of the student government money for fun, entertaining activities. We're basically trying to cut down on all non-fun things," said Hungeling. 
Hungeling and Orsagh are also proposing free football tickets for students. 
"It would only take a $2 in­crease in (general admission) tickets for students to have free tickets," said Hungeling. 
King, South Quad senator, and Lefort, Sorin president, plan to offer "The Loop," a shuttle from D2 to the Book­store and the Rock, a meal ac-
see ELECTIONS I page 4 

Clinton requests peacekeeping funds 
By JOHN DIAMOND 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration asked Congress Monday for $1.2 billion to cover cost over­runs of U.S. participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations. 
Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa., chairman of the House Appro­priations defense subcommit­tee, briefed lawmakers behind closed doors at the Capitol. The full appropriations com­mittee is expected to endorse the request Tuesday as part of a bill providing earthquake relief funds to California. 
Murtha said he supports the additional money because it largely replaces funds the peacekeepers used from Pen­tagon accounts needed for day­to-day operations at military bases in the United States. 
"When I talked to (President) Clinton earlier I said the tempo of foreign operations has got to be slowed down or you've got to increase the amount of money," Murtha said. 
The $1.2 billion will provide enough to keep the U.S. opera­tion in Somalia going until the planned March 31 withdrawal date and replenish the deplet­ed Pentagon operation and maintenance accounts. 
About 9,000 U.S. military people are involved in Somalia, relief flights over Bosnia, a ground presence in Macedonia next to war-torn Bosnia, and a fleet stationed in the Adriatic Sea to support the relief flights. 
Rep. George "Buddy" Dar­den, D-Ga., a member of Murtha's subcommittee, said after the meeting that there should be "very little contro­versy" in Congress over the peacekeeping funding. 
"We're spending the money so we've got to pay the bill," Darden said. 
Clinton asked for the peace­keeping funds as part of an ex­panding bill originally designed for earthquake relief. 
According to the Pentagon, 30 Americans have been killed in action during in the Somalia relief effort and 175 wounded. 

Photo by Marc Geller 

Memorial on display 

Part of the AIDS quilt, shown here at its inaugural display in Washington, D.C. in 1987, will be traveling to Stepan Center in Feb. 25 through 27. Around 300 panels will be on display. 

Former NO professor addresses law and religion 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
News Writer 
There is tension between the words 'Christian' and 'lawyer', according to Stanley Haueruas, theologian and pro­fessor of divinity at Duke Uni­versity, who spoke yesterday afternoon in a packed law school courtroom. 
Haueruas, a former member of the Notre Dame theology department, lectured on "How in the World Can a Christian Be a Lawyer?" 
"Lawyers have so much power," he said, stating that as a reason for so many anti­lawyer jokes. 
In speaking on the possibil­ity of a Christian being a lawyer, Haueruas said, "I have seen an indication that it is pos­sible. I have many friends who are working at that on a day to day basis. You cannot be a lawyer or anything else without good friends who will help you." 
The relatio-nship between Christianity and the law, ac­cording to Haueruas, is that "Christianity is the law that saves you." The problem with civil law in America, Haueruas said, "is not the law. It's the American people. The Ameri­can people are corrupt." 
Haueruas, who called himself "a moralist", quoted the gospel of Matthew 18:15, which ex­plains what to do if one is sinned against. 
see LAWYER I page 4 



Saint Mary's addresses AIDS issues and offers guidance 
Editor's Note: The following is the second in an ongoing se­ understanding that is given to any individual with a serious  CAMPUSES  to Gloria Chelminiak, director of Health Services.  Beth Kellogg also spoke last year about her work with AIDS  
ries examining AIDS education  health problem," the Student  "We are also here to answer  counseling in Saint Joseph  
and awareness on college cam­puses.  Handbook reads.  RESPOND  any medical questions that stu­dents might have," she said.  county. "There are groups of stu­ 
By ELIZABETH REGAN Saint Mary's News Editor  "Each case will be unique and will be addressed based on the needs of the specific situation.  TO AIDS  "We try to explain the disease as simply as we can with the idea that any question asked  dents, faculty and staff at Saint Mary's that are interested in getting the message in the com­ 
Every effort will be made to as­ psychological, emotional and  needs to be answered."  munity,"  Chelminiak  said.  
As the number of cases of AIDS in college age students in­creases, Saint Mary's has taken  sist these individuals in receiv­ing the medical and health care needed while they remain in  physical consequences of sexual activity prior to marriage, she said.  AIDS education has been fos­tered at Saint Mary's through  "Some attend AIDS ministry council meetings in South Bend."  
measures to increase educa­tion, ensure counseling and confidentiality and provide as­sistance for students affected by the disease in any form, ac­ the Saint Mary's Community." The AIDS task force -com­posed of students, faculty and staff-drafted the policy in the spring of 1986.  "We support students in their decision-making but encourage them to recognize the real dam­ages of sexual involvement," she said. "We are here to  outside speakers, educational pamphlets and counseling for those with concerns. "Last year's speaker Dr. Richard Keeling, an authority of  Another important element of AIDS education is through peer groups, according to Chelminiak.  
cording to Mary Elizabeth De Pauw director of Counseling . and Career development. "Persons in the Saint Mary's community with evidence of the HTLV III antibodies or AIDS will be given the same attention and  "It is important to have a pol­icy and procedure in place be­fore you are confronted with a crisis," De Pauw said. The staff at Counseling and Career Development stresses that students recognize the  answer any questions or ad­dress concerns that help with responsible decision making." Health Services provides con­fidential AIDS screening for concerned students, according  AIDS education for colleges and universities, had an outstanding response when he spoke about 'Sex, Alcohol and Self-Esteem: finding safety,"' Chelminiak said. "We would like to bring him here again."  Students Simone Barber and Elizabeth Holzemer partici­pated in a program sponsored by the Red Cross that certified them to do AIDS programming for their peers in the residence see AIDS/ page 4  


--~-~~­

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 1, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


Lemonade stands and ponzi schemes 
When I was a youn~------­kid growing up in Cleveland I loved to dream up schemes to get rich quick. Every week brought on new opportunities, and as other boys and girls were filing chapter eleven for their pitiful little lemonade stands, I was concocting fail-safe methods to Brian Seiler become the youngest mil-Asst. Viewpoint Editor lionaire ever. I loved money. And I was willing to do anything to get it. 
The most memorable of my schemes was the time I decided to sell my own personal artwork to passing mailmen. Mailmen, after all, are supposed to be friendly and personable, espe­cially to small children. 
So I waited in front of my house with a news­paper carrier's bag full of little pictures I had drawn, waiting for the flood of mailmen to arrive. 
There was only one small problem, though: We only had one mailman. I hadn't anticipated this minor detail, but yes, we had only one mail­man. Even if he bought a picture a day for ten years, I would not break even. I got wiped out on this one, for I had spent a bundle on art sup­plies. 
I needed a quick way to make up the money I had lost in this mailman fiasco. One of my friends suggested killing my parents and col­lecting my share of the will. But my past repu­tation raised doubts as to whether I was actual­ly in the will. I wasn't willing to risk it. There had to be another way. 
And indeed there was. I was going into the haircutting business. 
First I practiced on my sister's barbie dolls. Shaved those suckers bald. No problem. Then our guinea pig. No problem. Then came the real test. My own hair. And, the year being 1979, I had plenty of it. But the resident barber (my mother) intercepted me as I was about to make the first incision. 
"Oh honey, let me do that for you," she said. This is the same lady that (as God as my wit­ness) used to cut my fmgernails with big butch­er scissors. I got the hell out of there and decided to forget the whole haircutting plan. And guess who had to pay for the damn bald barbie dolls. You got it. 
So now I was in pretty dire financial straits. I needed money and I needed it fast. The fastest way to make money, I figured, was to commit some kind of federal offense. Luckily, I had my "Guide to Federal Offenses" handy. The one which most fit my situation appeared to be mail fraud. It was quick, easy, and extremely conve­nient for a six year old punk. 


For the next couple weeks I raided the mail­boxes of my neighbors looking for money. I poured over personal legal documents, bills and bank statements, but never found even a lousy dime. 
Amazingly, I didn't get caught until about a month later when the FBI showed up. I told them that them I was sorry and they let me go. How nice of them. But I was still broke. 
The rest of my childhood passed rather uneventfully because soon I had to get a real 'ob. But I still get that urge to test out some o my schemes... Anybody want a haircut? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Graphics 

News Chris Weirup 
Corrine Doran Production 
Liz Foran John Rock 
Sports Kathie Young 
Bryan Connolly Accent 
Viewpoint Mara Davis 
Michael O'Hara Lisa Monaco 
Lab Tech Business 
Shooting involving U.S. convoy kills five Somalis civilians 
MOGADISHU 

In the worst shooting involving American troops in three months, U.S. Marines opened fire in a street crowded with Somalis waiting for free food Monday. At least five people died and many were wounded. 
A U.S. spokesman said the 22 Marines . shot in self-defense after their five-vehi­cle convoy, which was carrying two American diplomats, was fired on by at least two Somali snipers. 
Somali witnesses said no one shot at the Americans. They said they felt the Marines fired because they thought hun­dreds of Somalis standing in a street outside a food distribution center were trying to stop the convoy. 
The commander of Bangladeshi sol­diers guarding a nearby traffic circle said his men did not see any snipers when the Marines opened fire with machine guns, but he could not rule out that shots were fired at the Americans. Journalists at a nearby hotel heard one or two gunshots a moment before heavy 
weapons fire. 
Dozens of Somalis ran through the area shouting anti-American slogans and carrying the dead and wounded away on wheelbarrows. A dozen Saudi Arabian soldiers were handing out food at the center when the shooting occurred, but none was injured. 
About 5,000 American servicemen are in Somalia, including a U.S. Navy task force offshore, as part of the 
U.N. peacekeeping force. The Americans are in the process of withdrawing to meet a March 31 deadline set by President Clinton after 18 U.S. Army soldiers died in a battle with Somali gunmen Oct. 3. 
Lawyer questions Marla Trump's character 
NEW YORK 
The lawyer defending a man accused of stealing shoes from Marla Trump attacked her character Monday, asking if she had been a kept woman or sub­mitted a phony insurance claim. Anthony Morosco also used his innuen­do-laced cross-examination to suggest that the accusations against Chuck Jones were meant to cover embarrass­
';,d ment about nude photos he said her then-boyfriend Donald Trump had taken of her. Jones, 52, of Greenwich, Conn., was Mrs. Trump's publicist. He is-accused of stealing dozens of pairs of shoes, under­wear, photographs and other personal items from her apartment. He faces up to 15 years in prison if convicted of burglary; criminal possession of stolen property and criminal possession of weapons. 
Teacher shot to death at Seattle school 
SEATTLE 
A teacher was found lying in the school hallway Monday morning with a gunshot wound to the back, authorities said. He later died. Neal Summers, 51, was shot around 6:20 a.m. as he entered or was about to enter Whitman Middle School, police spokesman Sean O'Donnell said. Other employees found him in a school hallway near a door, O'Donnell said. There were no eye­witnesses to the shooting, and the motive wasn't known, O'Donnell said. School District spokesman Kathlyn Lawrence said she did not believe any of the school's 1,100 pupils were in the school at the time of the shoot­ing. Classes begin at 7:45 a.m. Summers had taught at the school since 1979. 
INDIANA Weather 
Tuesday, Feb. I Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
At least 32 Americans have been killed since a U.S.-led multinational force landed Dec. 9, 1992, to protect relief supplies in Somalia, where 350,000 people had died over the previ­ous year from famine and clan warfare. 
U.S. officials said the shooting -involved three Humvees and two cars ft"'"!ftl!!!l!ill carrying two unidentified American 
diplomats to a meeting to discuss clan violence with representatives of warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid's coalition. The meeting was canceled after the shoot­ing. 
Clan elders recently reached a peace agreement in Mogadishu, and thou­sands of people marched across its treacherous cease-fire line in support of the accord. But militias are rearming and taking control of bases abandoned by U.N. forces. 
United Nations officials said an inves­tigation had been begun and hoped the incident would not set back the elders' peace accord. 
Stevenson Mcilvaine, an American 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 1. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
......--.-......_._ ........... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather. Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta Assocsated Ptess 
diplomat who was not involved in the shooting, said the Marines acted in self-defense. They reported they were fired on around 11 a.m. by at least two gunmen, one from the bush and another from out­side a building, he said. 
The Marines said they thought their return fire hit two gunmen, Mcilvaine said. No American was injured, but one of the Humvees was struck by two bullets and anoth­er by one shot, he said. 
"I wouldn't use the word ambush," he said. "I don't know if it was an organized effort. But it certainly was an attack. And it certainly was alarming." 
Macho marks Minnesotans' reaction to cold 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Cold weather in January in Minnesota is not news, the macho ones say; you just cope. This winter, they're cop­ing a bit harder. The second blast of arctic cold in two weeks kept Monday afternoon's temperature in Minneapolis slightly below zero following a record low of 25 below. Coping with the cold meant service station attendants made extra money on service calls, clothing stores pulled in extra bucks from sales of heavy coats and long underwear, and parents took their youngsters to an indoor park. Monday's below-zero cold extended right across the Upper Mississippi Valley and the upper Great Lakes. Northeastern Minnesota had the cold spot in the Lower 48 states at 38 below. Record lows for the date included 30 below at Mankato, Minn., and La Crosse, Wis.; and 20 below at Cedar Rapids, Iowa, the National Weather Service said. 
Accord among South Mricans unlikely 
PRETORIA, South Africa 
ANC leader Nelson Mandela rejected a demand Monday for changes in the voting rules for Sou'th Africa's first all­race election, making it even more unlikely that dissi­dents will participate. Another round of talks between Mandela's African National Congress, the white govern­ment and an alliance of election opponents ended Monday night with participants saying they would contin­ue negotiations. But there appeared to be little chance for an agreement. The opponents are members of the Freedom Alliance, including the right-wing white Afrikaner Volksfront and the Zulu-based Inkatha Freedom Party. Both are seeking concessions that would give them regional strength. 
Kyle Kusek David Clairmont Michael Martin 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Arlanra  47  30  Denver  28  0  Palatine  14  -I  
Baltimore  38  27  Los Angeles  71  50  Philadelphia  37  22  
Boswn  24  II  Miami  78  69  Phoenix  61  41  
Chicago  13  -2  Minneapolis  2  -25  Sr. Louis  21  II  
Columbus  29  16  New Orleans  52  39  San Francisco  60  46  
Dallas  37  29  New York  30  18  Seattle  49  27  


--~­---­--­ ~--~----~~--~-----­ ---~­--~-­ -----~--,...._.,  
Tuesday, February 1, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Realists gain strength within militant Shiite group  page 3  

By ED BLANCHE 
Associated Press 
JIBSHEET, Lebanon 
Sheik Nabil Kaouk didn't blink when Israeli F-16s swooped through a barrage of anti-aircraft fire to rocket Hezbollah guerrilla positions near this southern village. 
The Shiite Muslim cleric's dark eyes hardened. "We'll fight to the finish, until we push the Israelis out of our land," he said. "All Arab land, not just Lebanon.AllArabland. 
"We're not able to liberate our land in Lebanon right now, but we'll give our sons the right forever to fight for it, and for Palestine, until the Israelis are no more." 
words from a man who wants to turn southern Lebanon ­the only current war front in the Arab-Israeli conflict -into the graveyard of the U.S.-spon­sored Middle East peace pro­cess. 
But the reality appears very different as a comprehensive settlement seems increasingly possible. 
After more than a decade as the most feared extremist or­ganization in the region, carry­ing out suicide bombings that killed hundreds of people and holding many Westerners hostage, Hezbollah is undergo­ing profound change. 
More pragmatic leaders who seek friends, not enemies have the upper hand in the Iranian­

Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4:00 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in room 206 Lafortune. 
1. 
IMPORTANT-The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all Presidents ofgraduate and undergraduate clubs to check rheir mailboxes on rhe second floor of LaFortune across from the Student Government Office. 

2. 
The following dates have been set for CSC VAN TRAINING FEBRUARY 8 and 9 5:00 p.m. MARCH 31 6:00 p.m. 


All sessions will be held in rhe CSC Multipurpose Room at rhe Center. The class will last approximately 45 minutes. Ifyou have any questions please call the van line at 631-7847. 
3. SARG will be having a general meeting Thursday Feb. 3 at 7:00 
p.m. in rhe Notre Dame Room at LaFortune. All members are encour­aged to attend 


T 

militants like Kaouk have vi­sions of a holy war. 
The fighting centers on the deadly game of hide-and-seek the Shiite zealots are waging with the soldiers in Israel's "security zone" in southern Lebanon. 
Kaouk said the bloodletting will go on because the peace agreement between Israel and the PLO will fail. 
"It gives the Palestinian peo­ple nothing," he said. "It's a gift to the Israelis." 
"The war goes on. We will not stop under any conditions, even if friendly forces ask us to," he said, meaning Iran, Hezbollah's financial backer, and Syria, the undisputed power in Lebanon. 
Kaouk was meeting with an Associated Press reporter in a follower's house in Jibsheet when the F-16s streaked in to hit guerrillas perched below the craggy crest of the 2,620-foot Jabal Safi mountain a few miles northeast. 
His bodyguards rushed in and said anxiously: "Our chief, we must move away from here quickly!" 
They hustled him, brown cleric's robe swirling, into a green Mercedes and sped off 
SECURITY BRIEF 

through the shabby hillside Shiite village of cement-block .houses and shops, its muddy streets bedecked with yellow 
and green Hezbollah banners. 
For all Kaouk's fiery rhetoric, 
a peace settlement would leave 
Hezbollah with an uncertain fu­
ture. 
It already faces deep hostility 
from other sects and Shiite 
rivals who oppose its long-term 
objective of making Lebanon an 
Islamic state. 
Hezbollah, or Party of God, 
dominates the south and is the 
only militia that has not dis­
armed since the 15-year civil 
war ended in 1990. It insists its 
guns are needed to liberate the 
Israeli-occupied "security 
zone," an argument Prime 
Minister Rafik Hariri's gov­
ernment cannot publicly op­
pose. 
Syria tolerates Hezbollah's 
guerrilla campaign because it 
keeps pressure on Israel while 
Damascus negotiates for peace. 
Iran may finance and arm 
Hezbollah, but the Syrians con­
trol its supply lines. 
If peace does come, the Syri­
ans will have to rein in the fun­
damentalist fighters. But they 
may keep the organization in­
tact in case the peace is not ex­actly they want. 
Iran opposes the peace pro­cess, so hard-liners like Kaouk might not surrender their guns even if the Israelis withdrew from southern Lebanon. 
The pragmatists are led by Hezbollah's secretary-general, Hassan Nasrallah, and its spiri­tual leader, Sheik Hussein Fad­lallah. They believe Hezbollah must become a political move­ment with popular support if it is to find a place in the new structures evolving in the new Lebanon. 
In the October 1992 parlia­mentary elections, Lebanon's first in 20 years, the party won eight seats in the 128-member chamber. Other fundamental­ists got four more. 
Sheik Naeem Kassem, 
Hezbollah's deputy secretary­
general, recently told Shiite 
businessmen it is time to con­
centrate on social programs, 
not confrontation. 
Hezbollah has widespread support among Lebanon's 1.2 million Shiites, the largest sect, largely because of its Iranian­financed social and welfare ·programs. The government, faced with the immense cost of reconstruction, cannot provide 
such services. 


"Luxury Living You Can EnJ·oy & Afford" ""M'here Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 



232-8256 
count which would allow stu­dents to use their IDs at the By ANALISE TAYLORdining hall or LaFortune, and a 
News Writer

prejudice reduction workshop for freshman. 
Many students have ex­pressed concerns about the
"We want the prejudice re­
overcrowded facilities at
duction workshop to be a part Rockne Memorial, according toof freshman orientation. They North Quad Senator Dana An­have the alcohol and the rape derson.
presentations ...but this is just "Some of the complaints areas important," said King. 
unhealthy workout conditionsThey are also proposing "The at the Rock, run-down equip­Car Co-op," a database match­ment, broken equipment and aing riders with drivers, and lack of a place to run laps and
laundry drop-off from St. 
lift weights in the same place,"Michael's laundry. "This is not Anderson said. 
a wish list. These are things 
A committee to help with
that will happen," said King. 

these issues is being formed, she said. 
All students are welcome to In other Senate news, Student attend the debate tonight. 
Senators discussed the idea of 
along with you, so that every fact may be established on the
Lawyer 

testimony of two or three wit­continued from page 1 nesses." "Good communities," he said, "If your brother sins against "are communities where you 
you, go and tell him his fault are going to have conflicts." between you and him alone," This type of "confrontation Haueruas read. "If he does not" and reconciliation," according 
listen, take one or two others to Haueruas, "take a lot of 

AIDS 
continued from page l 
halls. 

"We're going to do an in-ser­vice with the nursing students first," Holzemer said. "They will critique us and then we will go to the dorms at Saint Mary's." 
"A lot of times, they (stu­dents) think that AIDS and HIV will not affect them," she said. "The program has helped us learn to teach our peers to break down the barriers and let them know that HIV doesn't discriminate." 
Health Services hopes to col­laborate with these students in a peer education program in each residence halls this spring. 
Pamphlets addressing the disease are available at Health Services, Counseling and Career Development and at the Campus Ministry so that stu­dents may go to the center that will be most comfortable for them. 
"Students may question how 
Subway has hot Italian subs. 
(You got a problem with that?) 
We're ralking real hor Iralian Subs here. 
Like the spicy Pizza Sub, heany -~--.....,.,..,....-:-~-'~ 
Mearball, and Iralian Sreak. -~~;,;,;;.; 
All smothered with Carro's ~Jf!il II , 
Marinara -authentic sauce 
&om a recipe by our founder's own mother! Six-inch Subs stan at only 


$1.69. 

SAVE $1.00 ON  
ANY REGULAR  
FOOTLONG!!! ·-~-· .li :  
I1 •  Not good with any other discount or otter. One coupon per customer, per visit Expires February 21, 1994  

practice and skill." 

One way to work toward this cooperation, according to Haueruas, is to ask the ques­tion, "Are you called to the 
Topping the laughter 
law?" This question, he said, "must always be raised again, 
The comedian Carrot Top performed last evening at Washington 
and again and again." 

Hall. The event was sponsored by Notre Dame Student Activities. 

f!i 
Alumnae
&sockrt1on 
Saint Mary"s College 
Nutrt' naml', lmJiana 
SMC SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS AVAILABLE FOR 1994 
1994 Project Sites: St. Louis, Washington, D.C., Columbus, OH 
Stipend: A tuition credit scholarship of $1050 per site will be awarded for 6 weeks of service. 
Eligibility: Saint Mary's College freshmen, sophomores, and juniors. 
Application Deadline: February 21, 1994. Project descriptions and applications may be obtained from the Alumnae Relations Office, 110 Le Mans Hall. 

moderators: PROFESSOR JOHN ROBINSON Director of the Center for Law and Government 
PROFESSOR WILLIAM D. SOLOMON Professor of Philosophy 
Fisher Hall Basement 7:00PM on Feb. 2nd 
Come join us for ~reat food & conversationI 
their faith life influences their decision-making," De Pauw said. "We encourage the stu­dent to make the decision as a whole person, spirituality should be a large factor." 
The Catholic dimension of the College demands comp~;ts~ sion and support from the community, according to De Pauw. 
"Individuals with AIDS should be able to expect a compassionate and supportive response from a Christian com­munity," she said. "It is impor­tant that we model that level of caring with our own and hope­fully it will catch in the bigger world." 
AIDS education is mandatory in both the battle against th'e spread of the disease and in re­lieving students fears, accord­ing to Chelminiak. 
"We must accept people for who they are and do away with judgments," she said. "We need to reassure people that there is a support system be­cause we all might be dealing with it in one way or another in the future." 
\. 
-~ 
I BUY AFOOTLONG : : & MEDIUM DRINK, I I GET A2ND FOR 99¢: 
: ..... llli.•· ... : 
1 Not good with any other discount or I1 otter. One coupon per customer, 1
I 

per visit. Expires February 28, 1994 • 
expanding parking conditions both on and ofT-campus. 
"A parking consulting firm from Massachusetts is working on it," said Student Body Presi­dent Frank Flynn. 
Several students have voiced their concerns about the lack of training professors have when dealing with computers, VCRs and projection screens in De­Bartolo, and several senators suggested a mandatory training session, Flynn said. 
In other matters, students voiced concerns about better maintenance for sidewalks dur­ing inclement weather. 
Student body officer debates are planned for 7 p.m. tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom. 

Icy debating 
Breen-Phillips resident sophomore Amy Dobbelare took part in the Iceberg Debates last night arguing the negative side over the issue of gender blind admissions against Dillon Hall residents. 
page 5

The Observer • NEWS 

Civil rights candidate opposed 
By MICHAEL SNIFFEN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Conservatives opened fire Monday on Deval Patrick, Pres­ident Clinton's expected choice as chief civil rights enforcer, even before the 3 7 -year-old Boston lawyer was nominated as an assistant attorney gen­eral. 
"Patrick appears to be a 'stealth Guinier,"' said Clint Bolick, vice president and litigation director of the conser­vative Institute for Justice. "He has no paper trail." but is part of the same pro-quota chorus that produced Lani Guinier." 
Guinier, a University of Penn­sylvania law professor, was Clinton's frrst nominee to head the Justice Department's civil rights division. Clinton with­drew her nomination after crit­ics claimed she advocated in­creasing black political power by radical means. Supporters said the Reagan administration had agreed to similar mea­sures. 
Bolick led the conservative charge against Guinier. His ar­ticle in The Wall Street Journal a day after her nomination was headlined, "Clinton's Quota Queen," a tag Republican sena­tors repeated in attacking Guinier. 
Bolick's broadside against Patrick came a day before Clinton was expected to an­nounce Patrick's nomination. 
With the post unfilled after more than a year in office, Clinton is under regular fire from civil rights leaders who say he has turned his back on blacks despite getting 82 per­cent of their votes. 
One near-nominee to replace Guinier, District of Columbia Corporation Counsel John Payton, withdrew his name in December after the Congres­sional Black Caucus com­plained he had not voted in recent elections and was insuf­ficiently committed to using the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to create districts drawn to insure the election of blacks. 
Earlier this month, Roger Wilkins, civil rights activist and history professor at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., complained Clinton "doesn't have a civil rights poli­cy right now." 
Asked about Patrick's im­pending nomination Monday, Mary Frances Berry, chair of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, said, "It's wonderful that the president is able to get someone of his quality." 
Bolick, however, criticized 
Patrick's work during 1982-86 
for the NAACP Legal Defense 
and Education Fund, of which 
he is now a director. Bolick said 
Patrick worked mainly on crim­
inal cases and unsuccessfully 
tried .to overturn the death 
penalty. 




HUMANITAS 
The College of Arts and Letters Undergraduate Journal 
is seeking INTERESTED STUDENTS to be this year's staff editors and INTERESTING ESSAYS for the spring edition of the journal. 
INTERESTED STUDENTS should attend a brief information meeting on Friday February 4 at 3:30 p.m. in 115 O'Shaugnessy. 
INTERESTING ESSAYS should be -from the College ofArts and Letters -written in English -less than 30 pages long -analytically oriented 
(No creative writing exercises or personal essays.) 
PLEASE SUBMIT* 1) Three copies of the essay WITHOUT your name anywhere on them 
2) A cover sheet with: your name campus address campus phone number year in school title of the essay class for which the essay was written. 
DEADLINE: Friday, February 18th at 8:00 a.m. Please leave all materials in a sealed envelope in the Humanitas mailbox located in the English Department Office -­356 O'Shaugnessy. 

QUESTIONS? Please contact Becky Kroeger (4-2915) or Professor Christopher Fox (1-7226). 
*Please no more than 1 submission per student. 

~------~------­
l 1niu·nih uf ~nln' U:um· \nt~rnaH;11ml Stud~· Prnv.ntm 
in 


MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR ANGELA BORELLI YJ Illill__OJU<A_LL___1_22J~r J{QGRAM 
WEDNESDAY,_ FEBRUARY 2, 1994 
4:30 P.M. 20 I DEBARTOLO 

YOU CAN SEND YOUR 
"SPECIAL SOMEONE" 
A VALENTINE MESSAGE ON VALENTINES DAY FOR $20.00 
The ad would be this size and must be submitted fly 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 10 to the advertising department for The Observer (Jrdjloor LaFortune) 

For further information, call631 
: ::
. .·. 

-~-~-­-~------­-~-­---­- -~ ----------~--~  
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS  Tuesday, February 1, 1994  



IRA dismisses peace document 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 

CLOGHER, Northern Ireland 
Raymond McMahon has looked long and hard at the framework for peace by the British and Irish governments. Like most of his IRA-supporting colleagues, he sees little in it for him. 
"Even now, the British gov­ernment is saying they're only willing to talk at a price: 'We'll talk to yez if you surrender first,"' said McMahon, a Sinn Fein member of the local town council who keeps a copy of the Dec. 15 declaration of peace behind the cash register in his Clogher pub. 
"If they had talked to us in the first place, there wouldn't have been an armed struggle," he continued. "But this docu­ment tells me that they know they have to talk to us, some­day, on reasonable terms." 
His view reflects the accepted wisdom among the Irish Re­publican Army-Sinn Fein grass­roots of the republican move­ment seeking a united Ireland. 
Clogher is a border town with a high proportion of Irish Re­publican Army sympathizers among its Roman Catholic resi­dents. McMahon's pub sits about 50 yards from the town's police barracks, which the IRA tried to blow up last month. 
Police rounded up the usual suspects -many of them McMahon's friends -and in­terrogated them for several 
God gives each personone lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Mm'eau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for col kue uraduate~ interested in exploring the pos~ihility of a lifetime of ~ervicc a~ a Holy Cro~~ pric~t or brother. Scholarship a~sistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon. C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541. Notre Dame. Indiana ..t655fl e llJJ 631-6Jxs 
CD COLLECTOR'S 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 6 1 0 A.M. -5 PM. ADMISSION $3 
AT: THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 515 DIXIEWAY NORTH US 3 1 -33 NORTH 
BUY • SELL • TRADE 

MUSIC COLLEQIBLES FROM THE SO'S • 60'S • 70'S • 80'S • 90'S 
LP's-CO's-45's· 1 2 inch singles-imports posters -magazines -books -concert photos -videos t-shirts -cassettes -pins-patches and much morel 
FOR DEALER INFO CALL BlAIN AT (6 J 6) 375-2776 . DOOR PRIZES 
SOUNDS UNLIMITED PRODUTION 
fruitless days. 
Clogher's republicans are people with family and friends in prison or on the run, and a share a sense of bitterness to­ward the British that makes them talk of fighting on for an­other generation if need be. 
Some Sinn Fein leaders have been surprised by the grass­roots' dismissal of the declara­tion. That reaction, and the dread that any compromise would split the movement, helps explain why Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams has avoid­ed supporting or denouncing the declaration. 
The Clinton administration found Adams' recent state­ments calling for peace suffi­ciently constructive to earn a 48-hour visa to address a con­ference on Northern Ireland in New York this week. 
The declaration of principles by the British and Irish leaders, John Major and Albert Reynolds, called on the IRA to lay down its arms as a prereq­uisite to peace negotiations that would include Sinn Fein, the legal political party that sup­ports the IRA. 
But Sinn Fein isn't biting. Party leaders clearly see that holding back on the initiative creates a platform to win con­cessions and gain credibility for Sinn Fein. The party attracted 
12.5 percent of the .vote in the most recent Northern Ireland election, and less than 2 per­cent in the Irish Republic's 1992 ballot. 
Irish 

Republican 

Army 

The Sinn Fein party In brief: 
Pronounced: Shin fane. Meaning: In Gaelic, roughly "ourselves" or "ourselves alone." Support: Won 12.5 percent of the vote in Northern Ireland local council elections in May, making it the second-largest party among Roman Catholic voters in Northern Ireland overall and the largest among Belfast's Catholics. In the Republic of Ireland, it gets about 2 percent of the vote. Goal: Seeks a united Ireland, demands that Britain set finn date for withdrawal; supports Irish Republican Anny violence to achieve it. Relationship to IRA: Party claims to be separate from the IRA, but allied with it within the "republican movement." Sinn Fein and IRA share a weekly newspaper, Republican News. Many, but not all, Sinn Fein activists graduated through IRA ranks. Leader: Gerry Adams, elected president in 1983. He has said that IRA campaign by itself cannot end British rule and has worked to build up Sinn Fein as a political force. 
APNJm. J. Castello 
Nil« ~ sPliNt; 11191 BlEil•
SPRING 




BRElK
COMPLE'I'E FIVE a SEVEM NIGB'I' 'I'IIPS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 
DAYTONA BEACH 

PANAMA CITY BEACH 
~ 15HL'J!·H• ~ ~ I!G'H+t• ~ 
VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD 
MUSTANG ISLAND 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 

'PrRI'I'RSONDEI'fNOIIIGONDUTIIIAIIDIII/IRE.UOATU/LfNGTIIOFSI.I.l 
---~-~---------------------------~---~~--------------------, 


BUSINESS 
Tuesday, February 1, 1994 page? 
FACULTY BUSINESS FORUM 
Fiscal policy 

unaddressed by Clinton 

President Clinton didn't-~~~~~~­
say much about the econo­my in his State of the Union address. Of course, he did point out how well things seem to be going lately, now that he's in charge-but it would be foolish for a sitting president to pass up a free­


bie like that. Clinton's Connel Fullenkamp implicit message was, "I.t's College of Business not the economy, stupid. Administraton 
Been there. Fixed it." 
If this is indeed what the President is thinking, then Republicans should be rubbing their han.ds in troll-like anticipation, for two things are certain. First, what goes around comes around, especially when it's the economy . And second, unless President Clinton takes steps now to reclaim fiscal policy, he will be powerless to do anything when the economy turns bad again. 
What President Clinton should have realized by now is that taking any fiscal policy action is impossible. The reason, of course, is the deficit. Fiscal policy is a President's main economic policy weapon, but in order to wield it, the President must convince Congress to go along with him. And budget deficits have been so large for so long that many members of Congress are refusing to support any President's fiscal policy proposals. 
Two events illustrate this point well. One is the failure of Clinton's fiscal stimulus package to pass Congress last spring. This mild stimulus could not pass muster in Congress because of the outcry in both parties about the deficit. The other event was the wrangling over disaster relief funds that took place after the Midwest floods and even con­tinues after the Los Angeles earthquake. Certain members of Congress are able to hold up appro­priations of these funds by arguing that this
!
spending must first be offset by cuts in regular 
government spending. 
The main job of fiscal policy is to revive a stalled 
economy or help a tentative recovery gain 
momentum. A rarer but nonetheless vital addi­
tional task of fiscal policy is to speed funds to 
damaged regional economies so that their distress 
doesn't spread to the entire economy. 
Instead of having these tools at our disposal, we 
have no real fiscal policy-and have had none 
since Reaganomics, when deficit spending became 
Big Time Deficit Spending, and we started to com­
pete with established deficit machines like 
Belgium. What we do have is the economic equiv­
alent of a crack addiction: the original stimulus 
wore off long ago, and we're stuck with a $200 
billion-a-year habit that seems impossible to kick. 
Now is the time, while the economy is clearly 
entering a recovery, for Clinton to drag Congress 
into rehab. The frrst step is the passage of a bal­
anced budget amendment that requires some kind 
of supermajority of Congress to approve budgets 
that are in deficit. This would make it much more 
difficult to engage in egregious deficit spending 
while still enabling the President and Congress to 
make emergency allocations in times of wars or 
natural disasters. This action would also reclaim 
fiscal policy for the President precisely because it 
limits the use of fiscal policy to times when the 
country can truly benefit from it. 
In addition, the announcement of a balanced 
budget amendment initiative in the State of the 
Union address would have made the speech far 
more entertaining. Imagine the look of bewil­
derment and panic on Ted Kennedy's face, the 
cameras panning over to Bob Dole as he smacks 
his forehead, Homer Simpson-like, realizing that 
Clinton has stolen another "Republican" issue, 
and the joy in the Veep's eyes as he anticipates 
making up with Ross Perot. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 


Industrial targeting is a viable option 
By DAVID TYLER 
Business Writer 
Industrial targeting, which has influenced the dramatic and consis­tent growth of East Asian economies over the last thirty years, can work for other nations as well, graduate student German Echecopar told an audience in Notre Dame's DeBartolo Hall yesterday afternoon. 
In his lecture entitled "Industrial Targeting and Growth in a Small Open Economy," Echecopar cited the examples of South Korea and Taiwan as successful experiments in industri­al targeting. 
Targeting is a systematic decision by a government to pick out specific sectors of the economy and buoy them with an in11ux of investment and intervention. By distributing funds and technology at a central level. competition and research are encouraged. 
The two Pacific Rim republics have . Echecopar believes that the larger 
parlayed this strategy into personal income growth of about six percent annually for the last three decades. 
According to Echecopar, this out­look can be translated to other coun­tries as well. 
"There is really nothing new (in these ideas)," he said. "The Neoclas­sical rriodel of economics has just been creatively applied to achieve the desired results." 
While targeting is no mystery, there are, however, tricks to hitting the bullseye. 
The first is fmding the right sector of the economy to target, or "picking winners," as Echecopar called it. "This means targeting industries with high productivity growth to begin with," he continued. "Ideally the growth will continue." 
The second is a realization that the rate of productivity depends on the rate at which a rrrm learns. 
a firm is, the faster it will learn. But he also accepts that there are upper limits to learning and its benefits for productivity. It is therefore up to the government to determine which where the proper balance lies, and measure its contributions according­ly. 
The enhanced internal competition will make the nation's firms more competitive in the world market. As a result firms produce at a higher rate and run more efficiently. 
"In a static economy productivity growth will increase regardless of outside influences on the economy," Echecopar noted. 
"If the proper firms have been tar­geted, their growth will outstrip the effects of any negative forces." 
As firms become larger and more successful, the government can then shift its focus to another sector and repeat the process. 
Federal Reserve Chair Greenspan predicts rise in short-term rates 
By DAVID SKIDMORE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Monday it's a matter of when -not whether -the central bank raises short-term interest rates, and he warned that waiting until infla­tion worsens would only mean harsher rate increases later. 
"Short-term interest rates are cur­rently abnormally low," he told Congress' Joint Economic Committee. "At some point, absent an unexpected and prolonged weakening of economic activity, we will need to move them." 
He carefully avoided saying exactly when, but private economists widely ex­pect an increase in the overnight rate for loans among banks anytime between next month and the end of spring. 
It would be the first increase in this federal-funds rate in five years, when the rate peaked at 9.75 percent, and the first change of any kind since September 1992 when the rate fell to a nearly 30-year low of 3 percent. 
A rise in the rate engineered by the Fed eventually could translate into in­creases in consumer rates on auto loans, adjustable-rate mortgages and bank deposits. 
Long-term rates, such as those on cor­porate bonds and 30-year mortgages, are set in financial markets and would not necessarily be affected by a Fed move, at least not at frrst. 
At the White House, President Clinton said "there's no evidence that inflation is coming back," but he sounded almost resigned to a modest increase in short­term rates. 
"What I hope is that it won't raise long-term rates because there is no need to do it. And I hope that the stock market won't take an adverse view because we've still got good strong growth in this economy," he said. 
The Democratic chairman and vice chairman of the joint committee -Rep. David Obey of Wisconsin and Sen. Paul Sarbanes of Maryland -urged Greenspan to postpone any rate increase as long as possible 
"I think the economic ship is on course. I think steady as she goes is the lesson all of us should draw from the current situation," Sarbanes said. 
Greenspan acknowledged that many of the forces that restrained inflation to 
2.7 percent in 1993, the second best showing in 29 years. will work to hold down prices this year. 
Still, he noted "upward pressure on prices of a number of industrial mate-

AP File Photo 
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan called the current short-term interest rates "abnormally low" and said that interest rates are likely to rise in the near future. 
rials" and warned it would be a mistake to delay raising rates until after infla­tion clearly had gotten worse. 
"By the time inflation pressures are evident, many imbalances that are cost­ly to rectify have already developed and only harsh monetary therapy can restore the rmancial stability necessary to sustain growth," he said. "This situa­tion regrettably has arisen too often in the past." 
Greenspan depicted an economy with enough vigor currently to withstand a modest rate hike. He said the 5.9 per­cent growth rate in the gross domestic product, recorded in the fourth quarter, wasn't likely to last. But, neither was the economy likely to lapse to a near standstill as it did a year ago, he said. 
"The economic fundamentals appear to be in place for further solid gains in the level of activity in the quarters ahead," he said. 
Economists who reviewed the central bank chairman's testimony said he is laying the political groundwork for a rate increase by offering an explanation in advance. 
"He was building a foundation to jus­tify at least some modest tightening steps. The timing is really tricky, but I'd say it will be within the next month or two," said economist David Jones o Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York. 

Gambling proposal for Indiana 
Associated Press 
JASPER. Ind. 
Residents of Crawford, Dubois and Orange counties will get a chance tonight to hear a multi-million dollar pro­posal from a Chicago gaming consultant interested in bring­ing a floating casino to Patoka Lake. 
Keith Hine of J&K Enterprises wants to float a flat-bottomed boat on Patoka Lake and build a hotel opera­tion, golf course and shopping mall on nearby private proper­ty. He plans to present his pro­posal at a 7:30p.m. meeting at the Knights of Columbus hall here. 
Hine said he has been look­ing at Patoka Lake since August. Although the lake's owner, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, has a policy pro­hibiting gambling on its facili­ties, Hine said he thinks he will be able to overcome that obsta­cle once environmental issues are addressed. 
The corps also has jurisdic­tion over rivers that already have floating casinos, he said. 
Geri Cozine, a Corps spokes­woman in Louisville, said no company has applied for a per­mit to build anything at Patoka Lake. 
Before the Corps policy against gambling can even be reviewed, someone must ask the state to request the Office of the Secretary of the Army, in Washington D.C., to waive the policy. No one has done that, she said. 
Interested gaming companies have until March 4 to apply for the Patoka Lake license and secure a referendum on the May primary ballot. No compa­nies, including J&K Enterprises, have applied and paid the required $50,000 application fee. 
The Department of Natural Resources, Indiana Gaming Commission and Corps of Engineers would determine where a boat would dock, Hine said, adding that he prefers the Dubois County side. 


11/1/93 12/1/93 1/1/94 2/1/94 311/94 


r-_-==---__
-~ ~---~_--·--=_-~-~-_~~---___--------~ 
rf " 
~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 1, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor.............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Perers OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty"s College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necesnrily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accenr!Saint Mary"s 631-4540 Managing EdirorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Producticrn 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporu 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LHTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Professor No facts shown in article on gun control 
• 

Dear Editor: (from The Washington Times). committed with a (usually ille­are we talking about licensing
appreciates 
The following· is in response In contrast, in Switzerland ev­gal) handgun, ten crimes are gun owners? to Kurt Mills article demanding ery male is required by law to prevented with (a usually legal­Finally, the people who ini­a total ban of handguns in the own a gun, and there is a very ly purchased) one. tiated the call to ban all guns

support 
United States. low crime rate there. Secondly, If this nation is so wonder­are the same people who are Let me begin by remarking if that Japanese student had fully secure and protected by clamoring to legalize drugs.
Dear Editor: 
that Mills presents an interest­been a burglar, and that man Big Brother Government, will Their reason for legalizingMy two sons and I wish to ex­ing offensive against gun own­did not own a gun, what would somebody please explain to me drugs? "The crime rate is so press our deep appreciation to ership, in that he does not pro­have been the outcome in the Crown Heights riot, the L.A. severe due to the black market 
the entire Notre Dame com­
vide a single verifiable fact in Louisiana? A by-line in the Riot, the Virginia Beach riots, drugs that crime will substan­
munity for the love and support 
the whole one page article, only local paper about a robbery. the Northeast D.C. riots, all of tially be reduced if we legalizeextended to us and to our dear. 
caprices and suggestions. To These are essentially the only which took place in the last two them." Yet they prescribe the sweet mother and wife, Lucy, 
this, I feel that a little reality three points that Mills rests his years? Moreover. if the Korean exact opposite for a constitu­who died so very suddenly and should be presented to counter case on. I would now like to ad­store owners had been allowed tionally protected right. 
unexpectedly of a burst 
his suggestions. dress some issues concerning to own automatic rifles (M-16s) If I have the "right" to blow 
aneurysm at the base of her 
Pertaining to "accidental the need to keep not only hand when the L.A. Riots occurred, my mind out with crack co­brain. She was teaching when 
deaths" from handguns: last guns legal, but assault rifles as how many businesses would caine, why do I not have the she collapsed; she was doing year. thirty people were killed welL have been saved from looting? right to protect my family from something she loved. 
from accidental handgun Five out of every six crimes Despite poor ratings of robbery, or why does a woman 
We are devastated by our 
deaths in the home in the are committed with illegally Buchanan's Convention speech, not have the right to protectloss, but we will recover. ulti­United States. Police, on the purchased handguns (from Buchanan did mention the two herself from a rapist, or whymately. Lucy would want us to 
other hand, managed three Armed and Considered army soldiers who, merely does a subway rider in New 
recover, ultimately. 
hundred and thirty accidental Dangerous: A Survey of Felons brandishing their M-16s, York not have the right to pro­
MARK PILKINTON 

handgun deaths last year in the and their Firearms by James turned a mob away from a tect himself from Colin 
Professor and Acting Chair 

United States (from The Wright and Peter Rossi, 1986). small apartment building dur­Ferguson? Department of Communication and 
Washington Times). Why not Handguns are the primary ing the L.A Riots. These issues are never Theatre 
ban police officers instead of choice of weapon in Guns kill twenty thousand to addressed by anti-gun freaks. handguns? Washington, D.C. for crimes, in thirty thousand people per To be sure, most of these peo­Pertaining to the five day particular, the . 9 mm. year. Most of those deaths come ple are yahoos who hold jobs

Dedication 
waiting period: on June 25, Handguns have been illegal in from illegally purchased guns. safe in suburbia, or are college 1993, a lady in Virginia re­D.C. since 1976, and they have Yet over two hundred million professors who have never seen ceived a death threat from her the highest murder rate in the guns are owned by citizens of the real world. Wake up! Readdeserves ex-husband. She went out and nation per thousand people. the United States (from Bureau a newspaper! Go visit purchased a handgun the next Two years ago in Florida, the of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Anacostia in D.C., if you want to day. On June 29, 1993, her ex­legislature passed a law that Firearms). By contrast, cars kill see how gun control abets the 
husband broke into her house, allowed people to carry con­twice as many people per year, destruction of a community. armed with a knife. The lady cealed weapons. Since then, but a similar number of cars Most importantly, the purpose shot him in self-defense, and 150,000 concealed weapon li­are owned by people in of a gun is not to kill other peo­

gratitude 
Dear Editor: 
thus saved herself from what­censes have been issued, and America. ple, when owned in a house­Last week we at Notre Dame ever butchery her ex-husband only 16 revoked because of If guns are like cars, why do hold. The purpose of a weaponwere held in a fierce and icy was going to put her through crimes. The crime rate in we not ban the usage of all is self-defense, something liber­
grip of winter. But it could 
(from National Review. Aug. 9, Florida has subsequently gone cars, except for emergency al crime apologists have forgot­have been much worse. 
1993). Pick your crime. from twenty six percent above vehicles and military usage? ten about. But if these yahoosWithout the hard work and Secondly, most criminologists the national average to four Why do we not at least ban all want to take my weapon away,
dedication of the men and 
women of our Maintenance, agree that, due to the increase percent below the national av­cars that go over sixty five if they want to tell me that I in paperwork for police officers erage. miles per hour? After all, cannot protect my family, then,
Support Services and Security and inability of people to react Handguns prevent over one Ferraris are only meant for one as the saying goes, they can
departments we could have 
been in bigger trouble. We owe to threats, such as this lady did, million crimes per year in this thing: speed. Does not driving "take my weapon from my cold, crime will actually increase un­nation, and are the cause of a car at one hundred forty dead hands." Ask Waco. 
them a great debt of gratitude. 
der the Brady Bill. one hundred thousand crimes miles per hour recklessly ROGER ZALNERAITIS FATHER WILLIAM SEETCH 
The crime rates in Canada (Human Events Weekly). That endanger lives? And if cars are Freshman
Rec10r and Britain are proliferating means for every one crime not similar to guns, then why Morrissey Hall 
Flanner Tower 

DOONESBURY QUOTE OF THE DAY 
LA5TNIGHTI /JROPP£1/ MY
tvH~ 15 THAT EJU5 ?' 

I<&YS IN A SNOWBANI<. I
IU BtT THEY caJtmT 
HA[} TO 9TIN MY CAR. fOR
&V&N 5TAF<T IT. .. 

AN HOUR UNTIL-MY aJIFe­60THOM&-' \ 
.-,__---..~ 

''Insolitude, we are least alone." 
--Lord Byron 

-~--------------~-~-------------­




ACCENT 
Tuesday, February 1, 1994 page 9 

MEDICAL MINUTE
Of keyboards and 
From the hoarse's mouth


English papers 
By Ryan]. Grabow N.R.E.M.T. 
Indiana honors freshman 
At this time of the year, most of us are constantly fighting some type of infec~

writing program director 
tiOn; Symptoms ranging from 
headache, stomach pain, and By JOHN LUCAS used on the Notre Dame cam­
body acb.e to sore throat, Accent Writer pus as well as around the 
nasal congestion, and fever world, Kline said that his goal 
eff~ct us all . Of this myriad of When Edward Kline was is to help students improve 
symptoms however, a sore introduced to his first keypunc_h their writing process and style. 
throat is by far the most com­card in 1965, the computer was The Daedalus program, a 
mon complaint. in its infancy. As a graduate standard part of the freshman 
Associated with the common student in 
writing program since the 
cold., th~Jll1;'1aryngitis, strep English at beginning of last year, is a pro­
throat, and a host of other Saint Louis gram Kline encourages. 
viraland bacterial' infections a University, he Available in the campus com­
sore throat is the most com" had stumbled puter labs and classrooms, it is the computer that you wouldn't hog," in Kline's words. Notre 
mon symptom we will all face upon the first a system which helps students be able to do without it," he Dame committed everyone to 
this winter. Treatment is very teacher to in brainstorming topics and said. participate in its computer pro­
shnple. Gargling with salt use the com­editing their work. Kline teaches both a fresh­gram, while other schools have water; sttctdng on a piece of puter in a "The program is pretty effec­man composition and literature seen mediocre results with vol­
ha:rd canqy.orthtoat lozenge; c I a s s r o o m Edward Kline tive," said freshman Zach class, and a graduate class on untary participation. 
taking · · ·· .· aspirin, ac" setting. Bollard. "It makes it easier for teaching writing. Although many students are 
etaminophen, or ibuprofen; Nearly 30 years later, Kline, the teacher to help you with "It's inconceivable in my comfortable with the systems, 
and simply· resting your voice director of Notre Dame's fresh­your writing than by going mind that I could go back to Kline still notices students be­.are good ways to relieve some man writing program, is still around to each person individu­teaching without the comput­coming nervous about using the ·of the p~in; 
learning about the computer. ally." ers," he said. machines. 
AdjustiJig your diet can also He is also using it to teach oth­Although she likes the idea of In the last few years, the "I think we get a mixed bag of 
pe ben~.tl,¢111,1 to relieving the ers how it will help improve having a computer program focus in teaching students' reactions," he said. "Most kids 
pain qf a. ~re throat. Staying their writing. available to help, freshman writing has shifted away from have some kind of computer ex­i..way fr\iW, acidic drinks such Kline was recently awarded Kathy Hausmann would rather the final product and back to perience, but the ones who 
as or~tnge<and cranberry 
the first Indiana College English write the old-fashioned way. the' actual writing process, don't have some fright. On the 
juice. and eating softer, more Association (ICEA) Award for "I can understand how people according to Kline. The shift first day it's a fear of the 
easily !!Wallowed food can Excellence in Teaching and would find a way to like the has made computers a more unknown." 
help prey¢nt further aggrava~ Scholarship for his work in de­programs, but I haven't found effective tool to help students For the future, Kline expects 
tion to y~m; tln'oat, veloping computer-assisted one yet," she said. improve their writing. that computers will become .·.· $om •·. ·· · the throat irrita.:. writing programs. After nearly 30 years, Kline is "There's almost been a more and more a part of the ]iqn sed by nasal "Many colleagues around the used to the resistance from revolution in the way to teach freshman writing curriculum. 
drain. . . ..•. ·~ the back of the 
state have benefitted from staff members and students. writing," Kline said. "We've "In the next four-year period, 
throat. n SlJCh Instances, a (his)generosity in inviting them "There's really been a lot of been fairly conservative with you're going to see that all of 
nasal dec()ngestant may help to workshops on computer­misunderstanding," he said. the way things are changing, our teachers will want their 
reU~e th~ pain by controlling assisted instruction," wrote "There have been times when I but now that we're adding the sections in the computer-assist­
the. drainage. If a sore throat ICEA president Edward was called 'the scientist' by computers, we're on the cutting ed writing rooms," he said. 
Js presentalong with a fever Uehling. other members of the English edge. People are coming here Although there have been 

(o · ~i'i Flor lasts more Kline, a member of the facul­staff. That wasn't a compli­from across the country to see tough times on the road to ·.. .r~; a trip to Healt),l ty since 1966, has directed the ment." what we're doing." establishing more computer use 
···· .. ·· ........... ·.. arranted. 
freshman writing program Several of his other programs Although the computers have at the University, Kline feels 
Medh~~HY there are not since 1976. In addition, he give basic English grammar been instituted into the fresh­that Notre Dame has done a 
many "f'!.u:-es" for a sore chaired the English department review and instruction. man curriculum, Kline needs fine job in adapting to the 
throat. Over-the-counter from 1982-87 and served as the Although the programs are more time to judge their effec­changes. 
remedie!! such .as medicated interim chair of the music helpful, Kline stressed that the tiveness. "The entire spirit of the 
throat lozenges and sprays department from 1987-88. computers are only an aid to "Notre Dame has made the University is looking to build on 
contain a topical anesthetic to In developing several com­make student writing better. sometimes painful transition to the traditions of the past," he 
pe~p reli~~~the pain. If a do~~. puter programs that are being "You can't do anything with computers by "going whole-said. 
•t()r run8 tests ·and det'ennines that the cause of an illness and its symptoms is bacterial, 
MUSIC REVIEW ROB ADAMS 
an antibiotic may by pre­scribed.
Luscious Jackson: To the beat of a funky drummer 
Unfortunately, illness that cause sore throats are usually By ROB ADAMS 
would deal with the problems that males viral in origin. Since antibi­Music Critic won't deal with," saidGabby. 
o~~c:s ar~ useless in fighting
Haunting, atmospheric keyboards 
viruses. they can do nothing The fluffy graffiti art which surrounds bounce off a jungle rhythm groove in "Let to relieve the pain of a sore the fuzzy photo of a slender teenager. Yourself get Down," an invitation to "all the 
throat. Taking leftover peni~ lounging against a wall with a can of Colt fly boys." Subtle, aching samples add to 
cillin or any other leftover 45 in between his legs on the cover of the the mix and establish Jill and Gabby as the antibioticin hopes to "cure" a Luscious Jackson debut EP, In Search of rightful replacements for the James Brown sore throat is neither an effec­
Manny, perfectly describes the groove "soul sistas" of the late 60's and early 70's, 
tive or safe practice. 
which lurks underneath and the members being the first female vocalists to exhibit 
·Antibiotics need to be taken of the band wouldn't have it any other way. that output of high voltage funk with self­
on a regmar schedule for sev· "The image is so symbolic of the carefree confident spunk in a long while. 
era! days before they have a seventies," explained Jill, Luscious Here in the early 90's, certain artists are 
significant effect on any bac­Jackson's bassist and vocalist, "we're in incorporating heavy-duty funk like it has 
terial infection. Since antibi· search of that style of freedom. There was not been played since the mid-seventies, 
otics pass through the body no AIDS, no wars...OK, Vietnam, but there and Luscious Jackson is definitely one of 
very quickly. taking only a few were less guns, less homeless people. and those groups. 
pill!:! will have very little effect 
Photo courtesy of Capitol Records 
no crack. Yes, it is totally idyllic, but that's "Life of Leisure" continues the lazy, on any bacterial infection. In
Luscious Jackson 1-r: Vivian, Jill, Kate, Gabby. 
the spirit of the music." • bluesy mood with an excruciatingly laid­addition, many antibiotics are 
Lucious Jackson was formed by Jill and ture articles in Sassy, The Face, and back beat as cool jazz floats above the hum 
specific to. only certain bacte· guitarist/rapper Gabby as they spent many Alternative Press, 1993 also saw Luscious of the bass. The transitions between 
ria. 
long nights brooding over possible samples Jackson appear in Rolling Stone, Spin's Gabby's raps and Jill's sensuous vocals are If taken unnecessarily or and drinking too much coffee. summer fashion issue, and Spin's new cleverly placed as the two women gang up too frequently, antibiotics can 
After beginning to work on the Manny artists for 1994 issue. on a pathetic individual who can't seem to 
kill beneficial bacteria in the EP, Jill and Gabby joined forces with Vivian Although not a political or social state­get anything going for himself. 
body causing side effects such (keyboards, vocals) and Kate (drums) to ment by any means, Manny features some Harmony vocals are the strength of 
118 d.i ·· a, nausea, an upset complete the format and become a band. interesting situations as lyricists Jill and "Keep on Hockin It," which also features 
~toin.ac J)f various fungal 
Kate came from the New York scene as Jill Gabby challenge traditional ideals of male­drums that dominate the vicious beat and 
infectionS~ · and Gabby, playing drums on the first two dominated rock. lyrics that are painfully direct. 
Sore· throats are caused by a Beastie Boys EP's. Vivian was born in the "Daughters of the Kaos" is the strongest Naming themselves after a former NBA 
wide variety of illnesses. 
United States, but grew up in Paris and and most original track off In Search of basketball player and their EP after When accompanied by a high Vienna with her opera-singing parents. Manny. as sirens wail amidst fruitful pick­Gabby's mother's seventies boyfriend fever, green or yellow sputum, "We're continuously evolving," said Jill. ing at an acoustic guitar. "Semi-automatic (Manny), Luscious Jackson describe their 
or persist for more than 48 
"We started out as a studio band and sisters/1 might be strong/But don't call me debut EP as "that old barbecue tofu, Thai 
hts ad9ctpf, should be seen. 
mister," Gabby murmurs behind hard-core chicken with peanut sauce, sushi, chick 
111. most clJ,~es. the only care
became a live band. 
drums and droopy bass lines. peas, a Cuban milkshake, and some iceIn March of 1993, In Search of Manny fol' a sore Jhroat is what you"'Daughters of the Kaos' is me imagining tea." But the licks on Manny are guaran­was released, and then it was re-released can .Provid.e yourself. Good
..

if females ruled the world and how we teed fresh every time. 
on Capitol Records in October. Besides fea­
.Lijek ~dSta.ylJea.lthyl , 
.•
r 
I 
f ~ '. 
I I I 
I 
1994 WINTER OLYMPIC GAMES Tuesday, February 1,1994 I 

Tourists shocked by Norwegian prices 
By DOUG MELLGREN And that's not to mention the ganizing Committee. "These Associated Press price of accommodations or a people are cutting off the meal at a restaurant, where a branch they are sitting on." LILLEHAMMER, Norway plain burger can cost $8.60. LOOC is charging the news 
Visitors to the 1994 Winter Despite horror stories, the media nearly $130 a night per Olympic city are already com­national competition authority room in eight-room apartments plaining about high prices, and insists that costs are no worse -a total that is more per night many assume the locals are than Norwegians are used to than the apartments would fleecing the tourists. paying. probably fetch per month out­
Even before the main crush of At least not yet. side the Olympic season. visitors arrive for the Feb. 12-Norwegians consider it nor­LOOC says the two cannot be 27 Games. prices in Lilleham­mal to pay $5.33 for a beer in a compared, because the re­mer are so stiff that a German pub, $3.30 a gallon for gaso­porters are being given hotel newspaper said they could give line, $1.10 for a newspaper, standard service. "polar bears cold feet." $17 for a pizza or $5.67 for a The government has threat­
For Nor-wegians, who hope pack of cigarettes. ened to impose price controls if that the Olympics will stimulate According to the competition Lillehammer prices run amok tourism, these are the normal authority's Jan. 18 survey of during the Games. Norway is prices in one of the world's 152 businesses in the Olympic spending about $1 billion, not most expensive countries. region, prices were stable. It counting roads and related pro­
"The wrong picture is being said the average price for a jects, on the Olympics, and presented of prices in the half-liter of beer, about a pint, wants a payback in increased Olympic region," said Jan Erik averaged $5.20, ranging from tourism. Halvorsen of the Norwegian $3.85 to $8. "The Olympics last 16 days. Competition Authority. "Our A cup of coffee cost anywhere but Norway has to survive after studies have shown that places from 66 cents to $3. the Games with tourism in the have not yet raised their prices But some wonder where the area," said Minister of Admin­in connection with the government went shopping, istration Nils Totland."If the Olympics." with at least one hotel demand­prices change from current lev­
Glasses of beer have sold for ing $600 a night for rooms dur­els, control systems will have to $8 and a cup of coffee can run ing the Olympics, and houses be evaluated." $3, according to a government that have rented for about The National Competition Au­price survey. At the Olympic $53,000 for the Olympic period. thority said it would keep tabs press center, a vending ma­"Prices are too high," said on its Olympic Price Index, and chine offers cans of cola for $2 Gerhard Heiberg, president of could react instantly with price each. the Lillehammer Olympic Or-controls. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

Can you type fast? I need a typistl I NEED ROOMMATES! Strongbow-Congatualtions on your ........BEAT THE RUSH•••••••• Will pay $1.50/pg. Call634-5117 Summer + 94-95 year &&·&·&(·&··&·&·&··&)"·&···(()) new title Mr. Stanford! VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly 
NOTICES 

150/mo furn+util pd-MUST SEE! -your London friends approaching, and if you want to Need one extra JPW ticket for all Hickory Village-5 min to campus CAN YOU FIGURE OUT THE write a classified to that special events DESPEAATELYllllllll 273-8369 someone, you can type your ad 
IRISH ACCENT Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506 SENIOR BAA ADS???? ITS A now. Your message will appear in Notre Dame's the special Valentine's Observer on Comedy lmprov Troupe •· $700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. PUZZLE EACH TIME...... WE MISS YOU ERIN HAYDENI!III Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd SHOW deckhands. Alaska summer fish­DON'T WORRY, WE'll NEVER floor of Lafortune. Wed., February 2 eries now hiring. Employment ··&·&·&ooo&&·&·&·&·&·&n(·&·o FORGET YOU !II HOW IS YOUR @ 9:00 Alaska 1-206-323-2672 CAT? BE SURE TO WASH IT

FOR SALE
in LaFortune Ballroom ADOPTION: Loving, financially OFTEN. LOVE, US 
Admission: $1 SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ secure couple longs for a newborn Help, I'm dying and I need two tick­in salary & benefits. SkVSnowboard SPRING BREAK CANCUN to join our family. Please call Nancy ets to Phantom for Feb. 31 instructors, lift operators, wait staff, Best pkg around. College Tours and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. It's my last dying wish. chalet staff + other positions (includ­econ.&lux. trips Can find extras BILLY JOEJIMBOBJEAAY JOEJAC Well, ok, so maybe I'm not dying but ing summer). Over 15,000 open­if needed -call reps 4 fliers & ATTENTION SENIORS! the tickets sold so fast I'm sick. 
ILOST & FOUND I 

ings. For more information call: prices X232-7109 I'll trade you the 49ers for a pair of There once was a boy named Please help me outl Thanx! 
(206)634-0469 ext. V5584 Phantom tickets! Well, maybe not BILLY Calllma "Jonnie" Sickman LOST: diamond ring-unusual set­the whole team, but if you need to whose girlfriend thought he was 282-2206 tin~omewhere between the Men and Women needed for free · For Sale: Smith Corona Word sell them for whatever reason, don't quite silly, Linebacker and Turtle Creek on haircuts. Call Cosima's 277-1875 Processor. Great Condition. $200 give them away, sell them to a but on this lovely day Friday Night, 1/21. Extreme senti­o.b.o. Call Stacy at 273-2670. friend. she just wanted to say mental value. If you found it, please ROOMMATE WANTED Call Eddie "Jonnie" Debartolo two years is a short time really! THANK YOU ST. JUDE call Adriana 273-4803 REWARD Handicapped 28-year-old male 282-2206 (In comparison) 

TICKETS
OFFERED looking for 2-3 people to share Happy Anniversary Bill! II 2 girls going to Cancun thru College 
house 5-10 mins. from campus. Will Love, Kristy Trs want to comb. w/ other grp. Lost Set of keys on a red scuba provide FREE RENT in exchange Will pay bigger bucks than Sarah. Help! hitchhiking is dangerous and Help! x284-5525 fin keychain. North County Scuba for helping me one hour per day Call X1178 Mud needs a ride to Dayton for written on keychain. If found and assisting in caring for house, JPW (2-18,19,20) call her at x2574 SUMMER JOBS -All please call Greg at4-1620. lawn and driveway. Begins immed. Will pay $$BIG BUCKS$$ for Garth or x2575. LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TOP 10 REASONS TO RETURN 
Prefer grad student and require per­Brooks Tickets. Call Sarah at TIGE CHILDAENS' CAMPS THE PHONE STOLEN FROM 237 LOST: my two car keys. They are son who will be in South Bend year­#3818. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR KNOTT ON CASINO NIGHT bound to a medal with St round. If interested call Adam 289-SUPPORT GROUP FOR RAPE LAKE PLACID CALL1-800-786-1 0. I can't call any of the guys I met Christopher on one side and Notre 9342. Seniorslllllllllllllllllll SURVIVORS Open to Notre Dame 8373 9. The people down the hall are sick Dame de Paris written on the other Did you buy an extra ticket to & St Mary's Students; HELD ON of me using theirs side. Campus newspaper carrier/manag­Phantom? CAMPUS; FREE; CONFIDENTIAL 8.The cord looks lonely by itself If you have any info, please call Huy er needed immediately for St. Need to get rid of it? Sponsored by Sex Offense Spring Break Bahamas Party 7. My roommate really loves me @ 273-5859. Thanks! Mary's campus, call City News Want to get rid of it$ Services 234-0061 ext. 1308 Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Trip Includes right now. 
Service Inc., 232-3205. Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free 6. I miss hearing the ring lost: small silver ring with sunken Call Jonny "donnie" Trump Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 5.1t's mine black patterns-sized for a male. Home delivery newspaper carriers 282-2206 and leave message. SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 1-800-678-6386 4. I don't have $100 to replace it please call x0920 if found. needed for morning delivery, car Free Food Night this Wednesday, 3. I have friends in ROTC 
required. Call City News Service Feb. 2 at 7:30pm Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! 2. I'm really sorry you didn't win the LOST: gold chain & cross w/ G in a Inc., 232-3205. Free Pizza at Alumni-Senior Club Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 Sega,but... heart at center, on path to Debartalo SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! days on the beach! We have the 1. No questions asked between Niewland & Hayes-Healy. 2 GARTH BROOKS TICKETS FOR best trips & prices! Includes air & REWARD. x1829 FOR RENT THE SUNDAY, FEB. 13 SHOW_ hotel & parties from $399! 1-800-x9405 (whoops) c/o 237 Knott 
CALL4-1339 BETWEEN 7-9 PM. Bookstore Basketball Commissioner 678-6386 Attention partygoers at 628 Grace: NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDAM $225. LEAVE A MESSAGE WITH AN applications in St.Govt.-LaFortune. please help me find my dark navy/ MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. OFFER. Due Feb 8. Frosh/Soph encouraged You want a major where everybody black J.Crew down coat w/ bright AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306 to apply. Spring Break! Panama (Wyl 8 days knows your name? Think about a orange lining (size S) w/ gloves oceanview room with kitchen $1191 major in CLASSICS. and my life in pockets. I'M Walk to best bars! Includes free dis­Contact Fr. Banas (362 Decio) or FAEEZINGilesleyx4867 FURNISHED 8 AND 4 BEDROOM KEY WEST-KEY WEST Top Ten from Road Trip '94: count card -save $50 on cover Prof. Sheerin (304 O'Shag) for more 
HOUSES 1 MILE NORTH OF NO Spring Break Airline Ticket FOR Dave's Cabin, near Bad Axe, Ml charges! 1-800-678-6386 information. Help! If you found my dark navy/ FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR SALE. From South Bend to Key black J.Crew coat( size s) w/ 2773097 West, leaving Thursday, March 3 1o_ I'm planning on heaping as Bookstore Basketball XXIII-uh huh, 
orange lining after the party at 628 and returning on Friday, March 11. much abuse on my body as 4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in can you handle it? 
Grace Fri. please call lesley 4867 HOME BASED B &B ALLIANCE This ticket was purchased during an possible this weekend Washington, D.C. area wish to I'M FREEZING and my life was in HOMES available for Feb. 18 & 19, airfare war and I'm selling it for what 9. Shut up, it's Detroit, we're adopt infant brother or sister. Close the pocketl no ?'s asked! Parents weekend. Call271-0989. I paid for it, which is cheaper than groovin extended family in area. let's help 
Excellant accomadations. anything you can find available 8. Dave, you're drifting to the right each other. Medllegal paid. Please Wanted: An exceptionally gifted FOUND: Beagle, 151bs, by Turtle nowI!II 7. Now we're really gonna have call Jessica or Bob tutor for advanced high school Creek Apts, Call Kevin 273-6163 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES Call Steph at 273-6548. some fun 1-800-864-8385. physics and calculus. Set theory 
SECURITY SYSTEM 6. We can't both be Bryan Adams and proof knowledge wouldn't hurt. All APPLIANCES 5. My lungs feel like the Laguna SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON­Will pay $10-$15 per hour. Please

WANTED 

1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS Tar Pits DON & ROME IN 21ST YEAR. call234-2465, 4to 10 p.m. Ask for

PERSONAL 
232 2595 4. Pretty soon you'll be playing TRAVEL IN Christine. ••••sPRING BREAK '94•••• Sega,BJ IREL,SCOT,ENG,FA,GEA,SWITZ, Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, FREE MAID SERVICE '94-95 HAPPY. HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, 3. You gotta love girls who dip & ITALY. COURSES IN PHOTO, hey AY AN BROWN-Florida & Padre! 11 0% lowest Price Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B. B. & KELLY O'NEILL 2. I can't explain anything except BIO,BUS, ECON,HIST,SOC,ITAL­want to come to Howard's Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and sand V-ball courts_ 234-3831 or you suck. IAN,& LIT. MEETING 6:30PM FEB. "Murder Under The Arches" SYA? your trip is FREE! TAKE A BREAK 273-0482 1. WOMEN RUN THE WORLD 8 CARROLL HALL SMC. FOR call x2577 to reply STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. You say it's you're birthday ... II INFO-PROF. BLACK 284-4460 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
----~­

---------------~-----------------­
Tuesday, February 1, 1994 
By DOUG MELLGREN 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
The crash that killed Austrian skier Ulrike Maier is unlikely to prompt any new safety mea­sures for the Winter Olympics, officials said Monday. 
Lillehammer organizers and international ski officials said the Olympic women's downhill course is safe and requires no alterations for the Feb. 12-27 Games. 
"We think we have done the job as well as it can be done," race manager Svein Mundal said about safety at the Kvitfjell ski run north of Lillehammer. "We are not planning any changes but we will sharpen our eyes" for hazards. 
Maier, 26, a two-time world champion and the mother of a 4-year-old girl, was killed in a crash during Saturday's World Cup downhill race in Garmisch­Partenkirchen, Germany. 
Mundal, who is in charge of the Lillehammer downhill and super-G races, said Maier's death has increased focus on security at the Kvitfjell course. 
"We wouldn't run the race here if we did not think it was safe," he said. "We have been working for three years to make it safe. We have nets on both sides the whole way." 
In Switzerland, Gianfranco Kasper, general secretary of the international ski federation (FlS), said little could be done to prevent similar tragedies at the Olympics. 
"We have no concrete leads on what could be improved," 
The Observer • 1994 WINTER OLYMPIC GAMES 
Dec. 9, 1984 First World Cup points with a 14th-place finish in acombined at Davos, Switzerland. 
• 
Nov. 30, 1988 First World Cup podium finish, third in aslalom at Courmayeur, Italy. 

• 
Feb. 8, 1989 Super-G gold medalist in World Championships at Vail, Colo., despite being pregnant. 

• 
Jan. 29, 1991 Repeated super-G victory in the 1991 World Championships at Saalbach, Austria with infant daughter Melanie in the finish area. 

• 
Feb. 2, 1991 Silver medalist in the World Championships giant slalom. 

• 
Nov. 28, 1992 First World Cup victory, a giant slalom at Park City, Utah. 

• 
Dec. 13, 1992 Second World Cup victory, a super-Gat Vail, Colo. 

• 
Jan. 16, 1993 Third World Cup victory, a super-Gat Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy. 

• 
March 28, 1993 Completed most successful season, finishing fifth in the overall standings and second in the super-G standings. 

• 
Nov. 27, 1993 Fourth World Cup victory, a giant slalom at Santa Caterina, Italy. 

• 
Jan. 21, 1994 Fifth World Cup victory, a giant slalom at Maribor, Slovenia. 


page 11 
.

testing Games 

he said. "There is no absolute security. It's like a crosswalk on a street." 
Mundal said he was not plan­ning changes in the length or route of the course, but that of­ficials were double checking for unprotected objects, such as the timing station Maier appar­ently slammed into when she was fell. 
"We have tried to put the tim­ing stations outside the fall zones," Mundal said. 
There are five timing stations, and those near the fall zone are protected by double padding, so a skier would be slowed down by a primary mat before hitting any object. 
··•fll•o;M 
X'·· --=--=-:=:== 
I 

Will your company grow as fast as you do? 
Almost every company's recruiting ad promises you rapid growth. But before making any decisions, ask them how fast they're growing. After all, you're going to have trouble moving up if your company isn't. 
Over the last five years, while economic conditions have stalled many organiza­
tions, Andersen Consulting grew on the average of  
20% per year.  ANDERSEN  
Compare that figure to any other firm you're con­sidering. It could be the difference between getting  CONSULTING  
ahead. And banging your head.  ARTliUil ANDFRS~N & CO., S.C.  

He said the mats are about eight inches thick and filled with a foam-rubber type of ma­terial, rather than the straw used at Garmisch. 
Last year, the Lillehammer Olympic Organizing Committee at first refused and then reluc­tantly agreed to move the women's downhill from an eas­ier course at the Hafjell ski area to the much harder men's Olympic course at Kvitfjell. 
Top women racers, supported by FIS, demanded the change after test events at the Hafjell course last March. The skiing elite dismissed the Hafjell course as too easy. 

., 

Andersen Consulting will be conducting interviews on Friday, February 4th. Please sign-up at the Career and Placement Services Office. 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, February 1, 1994 
"We could have done a better

Missouri shocks Jayhawks, Lady Vols outlast Vandy 
job with cutting and screening,

Win 
but maybe we were a little Associated Press 34-29 at the break. stretch. Vanderbilt (15-5) went rusty."
continued from page 16
Kansas led briefly in the sec­ahead the final time at 82-81 But the Matadors had little Melvin Booker led a balanced ond half, completing a 14-1 run when Rhonda Blades converted Then it was the Matadors reason to be disappointed. attack with 16 points, all but to go ahead 40-35 with 16:57 a three-point play with 13.8 Basketball is truly just a game
turn, scoring six straight points, two in the second half, as No. left. Woodberry had consecu­seconds left. including a fall away 3-pointer in Northridge. 
"During the game we try to20 Missouri took control of the tive baskets and then stole the Blades fouled out with 2.8 from Brooklyn McLinn to cut handle the task at hand. It's anBig Eight with a 79-67 victory ball and passed it to Scott for seconds to go, sending Nikki Notre Dame's lead to two with escape for us for two hours,"over No. 3 Kansas on Monday an easy basket to end the run. McCray to the line. McCray, a less than five minutes re­guard Andre Chevalier said.

night. But Missouri quickly regained 65 percent shooter, hit the first maining in the half. 
"But when we get off the courtThe Irish finished the halfThe Tigers (15-2, 6-0) ended a the lead, outscoring Kansas 13-_for an 82-82 tie and missed the our problems are still there." 

with a 9-3 run and took a 33­six-game losing streak against 2 in the next 3:33 to go up 48-second. Johnson came up with Notre Dame's problems are25 lead to the locker room.
the cold-shooting Jayhawks and 42 as Booker and Thames the ball in a scramble and still there, also, but they seem"Billy Taylor came out and
took a two-game lead in the scored four points apiece. The scored the winning shot. smaller now.
showed some initiative and
conference over Kansas (19-3, CAL-STATE NORTHRIDGE (58): Stone 0-1 0-0 0,
Tigers pulled away in the final "I credit Dana for not stop­
Marcus Hughes helped us with Lofton 5-14 0-0 10, Micelli 0-2 2-4 2, Chevalier 3-8 
4-2), which has won the confer­minutes. ping," Tennessee coach Pat 7-8 15, Mclinn 5-7 3-7 14. Hill 1-5 2-2 4.
his defense," MacLeod said. "I 
O'Doherty 0-0 0-0 0, Martin 3-6 0-Q 8, Willis 0-0 2­

ence regular-season champi­Frazier, who is averaging 7.5 Sum~tt said. "The next thing I also thought Pete Miller gave us 
2 2, Korkut 1-1 0-1 3. Samson 0-0 0-0 0.onship the last three seasons. points, had seven of Missouri's knew it was going in the net." a big boost." TOTALS: 18-4414-16 58. NOTRE DAME (76): M. Williams 7-8 6-8 20. Taylor
Steve Woodberry scored 19 frrst 12 points and led all scor­Vanderbilt coach Jim Foster Taylor had six points on 3­
3-4 0-0 6, Joe Ross 0-4 1-2 6, Hoover 2-8 0-0 4,points for Kansas, which lost ers with 11 in the sloppily­said the final 2.8 seconds lasted for-4 shooting and Miller Justice 1·3 2-2 4, White 1-2 6-8 8, Kurowski 4-8 5­for the second time in five played first half. long enough to lose a basket­buried a pair of 3-pointers on 5 13, Hughes 1-3 0-0 2. Cozen 1-2 0-0 2, Jon Ross 3-4 0-2 6, Miller 2-3 1-2 7, Boyer 0-0 0-Q 0, Gotsch games. The Jayhawks shot 43 ball game but that his players the way to a seven point perfor­0-1 0-0 0, J. Williams 1-1 1-1 3, Ryan 0-2 0-0 0, 
mance. Keaney 0-1 0-Q 0. TOTALS: 26-54 22-30 76.
percent and had 17 turnovers. missed earlier opportunities to 
Halftime: Notre Dame 33, Northridge 25. 3·

But the night again belonged 
Missouri has held its last 11 No. 2 Tennessee 84 put away the victory. point goals: Northridge 6-14 (Chevalier 2·4, opponents to sub 50-percent Tennessee (19-1) now has to Williams, who scored a Mclinn 1-3, Martin 2-5, Hill 0-1, Korkut 1-1 ), Notre
No. 11 Vanderbilt 82 
game-high 20 points and Dame 2-11 (Miller 2·2, Hoover 0-3, Justice 0-2,shooting. won the past four games in the Kurowski 0-1, Cozen 0-1 ). Total fouls (fouled
No. 2 Tennessee found out grabbed 15 rebounds. 
out): Northridge 27 (Chevalier), Notre Dame 23

Booker, Missouri's leading series. Monday's game was ar­
Monday night how long 2.8 sec­Defense may have made the (none). Rebounds: Northridge 24 (Lofton 8), scorer with an 18.2-point aver­ranged to stoke interest in Notre Dame 40· (M. Williams 15). Assists:
onds can last. difference for the Irish, who 
Northridge 9 (Hill 3), Notre Dame 17 (White 9). 

age, missed all six of his shots women's basketball, and
Dana Johnson scored on a held McLinn to 14 points and Turnovers: Northridge 17 (Micelli 3, Chevalier 3),in the first half. But he went 6-put-back as time ran out and 12,645 attended, the second­Ryan Martin to eight. Notre Dame 21 (M. Williams 4, Taylor 4, Joe Ross 
for-7 at the free throw-line and largest crowd behind the "We struggled somewhat with 4). Attendance: 8.402. 
lifted the Lady Vols over 11th­
added three baskets in the sec­15,317 that attended last year's their defense," Cassidy said.
ranked Vanderbilt 84-82. Her 
ond half to lead five Missouri game.
basket followed a missed free and just tried to have fun." 
players in double figures. The teams meet Feb. 13 in
throw by Nikki McCray with 2.8 The Irish will not compete


Roll

Kelly Thames and Jevon Knoxville in a game that will
seconds left, a missed shot by again until next Tuesday whenCrudup each added 14 points count toward the Southeastern
one Lady Vol and a scramble they face off with the 25th­
continued from page 16 

for Missouri. Lamont Frazier Conference standings. Foster
for the ball before it landed in ranked Badgers of Wisconsin. 
and Paul O'Liney had 13 said he wouldn't mind playing "We've had a real good fall,
Johnson's hands. jitters to win all three of her
apiece. Tennessee a total of four times conditioning and preparing,"
"Oh God, it did (seem long)," matches. 
Greg Ostertag added 13 points this season. said Louderback. "Now we just
Johnson said. "It had to be "I was a little nervous at 
and a game-high eight re­want to get going and start
long. Vonda shot the ball and "At Tennessee, in the South­first," she admitted, "but once I 
playing some matches."

bounds for Kansas. missed it, it knocked around a eastern Conference tourna­got on the court I loosened up Richard Scott scored the first ment, the NCAA tournament. If
bit before it fell into my hands,
basket of the game for Kansas, you're going to make a pro­
and I shot it. It had to be a long
but the Jayhawks shot only 27 gram, ... you've got to play the
time." 

percent (g-for-30) and had best teams, and they are a very
The final scramble for the vic­
eight turnovers in the first half good basketball team. And we'll 
tory followed a tense second 
Just say no. 
as Missouri led by nine points continue playing very good bas­
half as the teams swapped the 
on three occasions and went up ketball teams," he said. 
lead several times down the 

r 
Ifyou missed ]PW '94 seating registration it will be held again 
Monday, January 31 thru Wednesday February 2 
4 p.m.-9 p.m. CCE Room 112 
Absolute Last Chancel 
..----------------~--­
Tuesday, February 1, 1994 
Men head to Rolex Tourney 
By PHIL IANGER Slam, the Rolex National Small Sports Writer College Champions, at-large selections made by the ITA's 
Three members of the Notre National Tournament Commit­Dame men's tennis team will tee, and wild card selections. leave to play in the prestigious Zurcher, the No. 1 singles 1994 Rolex National Indoor In­player for the Notre Dame, tercollegiate Tennis Champi­qualified for both singles and onships this Wednesday. doubles by capturing both titles 
Seniors Andy Zurcher and Al­at the Rolex Midwest Champi­lan Lopez and freshman Randy onships in the fall. Currently Simme will represent the Irish the No. 36 singles player in the in the tourney, which is the nation, Zurcher is also tied for third leg of the ITA Collegiate seventh in doubles along with Grand Slam. Lopez in the current Rolex Col­
The Rolex National Indoors, legiate Tennis Rankings. the premier event of the winter collegiate season, will be played Freshman Ryan Simme enters Feb. 3-6 at the Brookhaven the tournament not only as the Country Club in Dallas. only wild card selected by the 
The 32-player singles field ITA, but also as the only fresh­and 16-team doubles draw will man in a highly talented draw. consist of qualifiers from Rolex Simme was awarded this honor Regional Championships played because, as the thirty-second around the country this fall as ranked player in the nation, he well as winners of the first two is currently the best freshman legs of the ITA Collegiate Grand in the country. 
YOUR FUTURE BEGINS HERE 
250 Progr8.11l.s 

for Professional & Personal Development 
• Personal Computers 
• GMAT, GRE, LSAT Review Courses 
• English as a Second Language 

• 
Quality Management • Administrative Assistant/ Office Management • Human Resources • Customer Service • Certified Financial Planner 

• 
CEBS • and much more! Most Classes Start Week of Feb.14 


(Computer classes start earller) 

For Your FREE Catalog, Call 237-4261 
I 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SournBEND 
CoNTINUING EouanoN


IlliB 
1700 MisHAwAKA AVE., Soum BEND 


-------------------~­


ND-SMC Students 
20th Annual Summer Program 
LONDON  ROME  
ay 19, June 18  June 13 , July 12  
ravel in Ireland,  Travel in France,  
Scotland, and France  Germany, and  
Switzerland  

Courses offered in BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, DUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 

MEETING April5 
6:30 p.m. Madeleva Hall,Rcom 348 SMC • Free pizza Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
page 13 



Tennis 
continued from page 16 
mented Coach Bayliss, "he is a great competitor who never quits." 
The other Notre Dame team members who stepped up nice­ly were sophomore Mike Sprouse, who beat DeVore 6-3. 6-3, senior Todd Wilson, who defeated Jamison Hawthorne 6-2, 6-3, and sophomore John Jay O'Brien, who beat Michau Basson 7-6, 6-3. 
"It was a great showing at singles, " noted Bayliss. "Even the matches we lost we had a real opportunity to win." 
"Illinois is a young team who has improved a lot over the past year," stated Bayliss. "Unfortunately for them, our team overcame the adversity faced when Zurcher suddenly fell out of the lineup." 
· . 

advance by Wednesday, Feb. 2, in the RecSports office. Call 1­6100 for more information. 
Ski Trip scheduled for Friday, Jan. 28, has been post­poned to Friday, Feb. 4. Lim­ited seats. Register and pay in advance at RecSports. Deadline is Feb. 2. 
ND Rowing Club: Manda­tory meeting Wednesday, Feb. 2 at 8 p.m. for all novice and varsity members. Also: Varsity­bring checkbooks for Steven­sons, sweatshirts, and other Fall semester debts. 
Attention Skiers: Last week to sign up for the spring break · ski trip to Jackson Hole, WY. 
Contact Dave at 273-3105. 
SportsTalk welcomes guest basketball stand out Monty Williams tonight on WVFI 640 AM at 8 p.m. Call in with your questions and comments at 631-6400. 
Beethoven's 2"'(PGI: 1:00. 3:00.5:15, 7:15 Bllak(Rj: 145.430.7:30.10:00 Gn11npy Old MH(PG13j: 115.415.6:45. 9:00 Iron WIII(PGj: 12:15,2:30. 5:00, 7:30,9:45 Pblladelpbfa(PG131: 1:30.4:45,7:15, 945 The Pellcaa Brlef(PG13j: 12:30.4:00, 7:00. 10:00 Tombstone(Rj: 10·15 
Mn. Doubtflre(PG13j:
4:15, 7:15, 9:45 
The Air Up Tbere(PGI:
4:30, 7:00. 9:30 
WIJlle's World 2(PG13l:
500, 7:30. 10:00 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Senior Andy Zurcher will be one of three Notre Dame representatives at the Rolex National Indoor Intercollegiate Tennis Championships. 
SPORTS BRIEFS Notre Dame Rugby Club: 
There will be an informational meeting for anyone interested in playing rugby on Tuesday Feb. 1 from 7:30-8:30 in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune (2nd floor). Practice begins at 9 p.m. at Loftus on Wednesday Feb. 2. 
Ketsu-ka self defense class: Meetings are on Tues­day and Thursday from 6:30-8 
p.m. in Rockne 219 and Sun­days from 2-3:30 in Rockne 
301. Registration is $18 in advance. For more info. call 
RecSports. 
Bookstore Basketball Commissioner applications are available now in the stu­dent government office in LaFortune. Due Feb. 8. Freshmen and sophomores are encouraged to apply. 
Snow Tubing: Thursday, Feb. 3, at St. Patrick's Park. $4 fee includes tubing, transporta­tion, and hot chocolate. Bus leaves library circle at 6:30 p.m., 7 p.m., and 7:30 p.m., and returns at 9 p.m., 9:30 p.m., and 10 p.m. Register in 


NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY 


Now TAKING APPUCATIONS FoR '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 





232-8256 
I RI s H CCENT 
NoTRE DAME's COMEDY lMPROV TROUPE 


SHOW 
WEDNESDAY, fEBRUARY 2 9 P.M. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM ADMISSION $1 
-r-----~-------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 1, 1994 

I -· 
Irish swimming and diving fall to Bonnies this weekend 

Captain Kristin Heath and the Irish swimming teams could not prevail in last weekend's meet with St. Bonaventure 
Irish fencing's sweeping success swats Columbia, St. John's, and Rutgers 
By KELLY CORNELIS Sports Writer 

Despite a heated rivalry as in­centive and a home pool advan­tage, the Notre Dame men's and women's swimming and diving teams lost to St. Bonaventure on Saturday. 
The Irish women lost 158­136, and the men fell126-105. 
Although the races were all very close in the women's meet, the Bonnies won 10 out of 13 swimming events. 
Sophomore sensation Jesslyn Peterson had Notre Dame's only first-place finishes in the racing events, capturing the 200 IM, and the 100 and 200 breast. Fellow sophomore Joy Michnowicz placed second be­hind Peterson in the 200 IM and 200 breast. 
"The meet came down to some really close races, and those points really add up fast," said Peterson. "But our times were still the fastest we've swum all season." 
"It's really hard to feel that excited about what you do per­sonally when the team goal is not met," added Michnowicz. "This definitely gives us some­thing to work for because we'll see them again at Easterns." 
For the men, it was nearly the same story. The Bonnies dominated the swimming events, winning all but one. Sophomore Ry Beville had the lone Irish victory in the 200 fly, his 15th straight first-place fin­ish in that event. 
Although the women were happy with their times, the men had inconsistent results which Irish coach Tim Welsh called "sporadic". 
The swimmers hope to re­bound from this loss and to keep shaving seconds off their times as they prepare to face nationally ranked Kansas this weekend. 
"We're not down and out," stated Welsh. "We have plenty oftime to regroup." 
The Irish will "take on the Jayhawks at 4:30 p.m. on Sat­urday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
The Dallas Cowboys were not the only ones celebrating after a successful Sunday perfor­mance. 
On a day in which most sports fans concerned themselves with only Super Bowl. the Notre Dame fencing team also had a truly Super Sunday as all five teams went into New York and defeated some of the toughest fencing competition they will face this year. 
The Irish men's team downed the defending NCAA champs Columbia in a grueling 16-11 match, while the women's foil team captured an 11-5 win and the women's epee team was victorious by a score of 10-5. 
"We went into a tiger's den anticipating a dog fight and the kids responded beautifully," said men's head coach Mike DeCicco. 
With a 15-12 win over St. John's and a 22-5 plastering of Rutgers, the men's team com­pleted a sweep of the day. The little adversity which the team faced was countered by a total team effort. 
Against Columbia, the sabre team lost a close bout, 4-5, but both the foil and epee teams stepped up to win 7-2 and 5-4, 


ST. PATRICK'S PARK THURSDAY, FEB. 3 
$4 INCLUDES: TUBING TRANSPORTATION HOT CHOCOLATE 
Bus cJe.parts librarv circle: 
•
6:30, 7:00 &7:30pm 
Bus returns to campus: 
9:00, 9:30 & 10:00pm 
Register in advance by Wednesday, Feb. 2 Call RecSports for more info. 631-6100 
respectively. The foil team was powered by undefeated per­formances from junior Stan Brunner and freshman Jeremy Siek along with epeeist Rakesh Patel to take down the defend­ing champs. 
"It was an absolute team ef­fort," added DeCicco. 
In the bout with St. John's, the foil team failed to provide a win, but once again the team answered as both sabre and epee won by identical scores of 6-3. Senior epeeist captain Greg Wozniak and freshman sabreman Bill Lester avenged earlier losses to Columbia by winning 3-0. 
"The way the team performed this weekend shows the poten­tial for doing well in the NCAA's," said Lester. 
On the women's side, balance was the key in the foil team's victories. In addition to the Columbia win, the Irish cruised past the Redmen and the Scar­let Knights by scores of 11-5 and 14-2, respectively. The Irish were led by sophomore Maria Panyi who finished 11-0. 
"Since we went 36-12 on the day, it shows that we have a lot of balance besides Maria," said women's head coach Yves Au­riol. "I am really pleased with the performances of Kim Arndt, Corinne. Dougherty, Claudette deBruin, captain Didi Garcia and Mindi Kalogera." 

In women's epee, the Irish defeated Rutgers 7-2 along with the 10-5 win over Columbia. The Irish broke open a tight 6-5 match against the Lions by win­ning the final four bouts. 
"I am pleased with our three women epeeists, Maura Gal­lagher, captain Mar it Fischer and Ashley Shannon," added Auriol. "They showed that they can compete with anyone." 
"Hopefully, the confidence gained from these big wins will carry over to next weekend," said DeCicco. 

Onwcampus contact: 
Mike @634-4451 Angie @634-~659 Michael @634-1121 

120Not1h....._...5t.,llhoca,HYI48SO 
1-800-648-4849 
-

Catch the best in Irish sports coverage in'~'<;=:=~'~,, The Observer. 
You can even send it home to the 'rents. 
Call 631-7471 for more subscription information. 
Happy Belated "21" Birthday 




CHAD, 
Cancun Mexico  hom$439  
Negril Jamaica  hom$449  
Montego Bay Jamaica  hom$419  
Daytona Beach, FL  hom $149  
Panama City Beach, FL  hom $129  

Love, 
Mom, Dad, Charles, Anne, Christian & Angela 

~~ ~ ---~---~---_,.-.....,...-----~--~----­




_______________...., 
Tuesday, February 1, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER 
CALYIN AND HOBBES 
t£P.' 

''39A W,tl11"50rl 01s1 by Un•versal Press Syndocate 

CROSSWORD. 
ACROSS 35 Supped 
36 Relative of a 1 Dog star Bap. or Presb. 5 Gull's cousin 37 Balkan capital 9 Eyeball bender 38 Gabor sister 
40 Thimbleful14 Ground grain 42 Dryden work 

15 Mini revelation 43Helpget
1& Red-eyed bird situated17 Haitian despot 45 Plugs of a sort 20Cordwood 47 Saturn's wife 
measure 48 1956 Rosalind 
21 Dance in a Russell role 
shtetl 50"For-usa
22 Out's opposite child is born" 23Vidal's 51 Headlight?
Breckinridge 25 Actor Young of 
52 Survey chart TV's 67-Across 54 Seaweed 27 Is grief-stricken 
product 

57-fixe "His Songs and 59 Reached the His Sayings" total of 30 Book subtitled 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
63 Popular psychologist 66 Paul Anka hit &7 See 25-Across 68 Deep blue &9 Throat malady 70Achy 71 James Mason sci-fi role of 1954 
DOWN 
1 Rock band 
equipment 2 Usher 3 Mend, in a way 4 Alternatives to 
The Club 5 Round stopper & Delights 7 Change the 
dt'lcor a Kind of network 9Aoman 
breakfast? 10 Light beers 11 "Jewel Song," 
e.g. 12 Mariner's peril 13 Raced 
Grace Van Owen on "L.A. Law" 
19 Passepartout, to Phileas Fogg 24 Strongly 
scented plant 26 Stellar Ram 27 Fiji neighbor 
Japan 

'/'KNOW. I OON'T KNOW 
Wf!EN CRIMINALS ARE. 
GONN fl LE.f\RN lliAT Ttl IS 
iS AME.RIC.A, 11-1~'1 CAN'T 
STE.AL niE. 1-1 ARO-Ef\RNED 
MON[;'/ OF US C.ITI?.ENS. 
'WE. WON'T ,..,-n 
TOLf. R.AT&~ , 
sc..<;l\\C\.1 SCRIT'clf 
S<"RATC\-\ 
scR\IC.I-\ 
29 Set in motion 31 Dinnerware 32 Building 
contractor 


33 Not suitable 34 Final authority 36 Madness 390ust 41 Nurse, maybe 44 Directed toward 
a goal 46 Hair fixative 49 Office 
connections? 
VNLI:SS, OF COURSE I 
11-H'.'/'RE. 1'\RST E.LKIE.D 
W PUBLIC OFFICE 
FAIR AND SQUARE. 
BILL WATTERSON 
'i<:J\J KNOW, l WI'S\-1 '{0\lR Mot>\ Bliii'J,E5 PAR~f'.ITS 'NO\JLD ME FOR. T"-¥.1:. 0\JT T\-IES't.. 
SC..\JtT\f'.IG FLooRe.Ot>..RDS 
\JP TI-lt. A\'oll) P\JT O<JWI'\ 
FLOOR. SOME 'S()\). 
DAVE KELLETT 

-Monk 
&2 Kon-Tiki 54 Postfixes Museum site 64 Shrill bark 
55 Sandpaper surface &5 Lyric poem 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



Only 12 more days to put in a Valentine's Classified••• to your sweetheart to your favorite teacher or your favorite monk. 
Aw(fJ)il~ irliD~ trl!ll~Jh~ J.D)~ ill! t!(fJ)cdlcn7 ~ 
LJ Since I've been bartending at the ALUMNI/SENIOR CLUB, man~,,§.fGq~nts have told me that they think its agreat place ~ but that they don't go because nobody does. Well, maybe l'm:;cr,~~{which is probably the case) but that doesn't make · .~ make much sense. If you don11go, who else is there? And wH~.,:b~~t rhe place is OURS! Its big, it has everything in it, 
.'C you can get amembership qQP NEVER have to pay acover everagain (we do have to pay rent, you know), its easy to 
s; get to for both on &off campys residents, we've got great bands playing almost every week, Friday lunches, the prices . aren't cheaper anywhere else, and you probably know at least one of us bartenders: Dan, Colleen, Amy, Yve, Moles, . . · Libby (our DJ), EJ (our other ~J), Patti, Sq~J~~s,Pr~tte,Jen, ~~gei,Kerri, Schenck, Pau.l, Mi~~ ... ,~usan,i.~~: ~pd our"'··
1 

.~ ·.. managers,. Russ & BK. Even 1f you don't ~~y ~llmg~t, u~~ ~t ws ap~ace to meet up w1th you1[. buds,~aJe10 ne or tw9
.tl.J· and then h1t the town. We open at 9:00, a~~ s'@fV~iJ;RqE:wmgs unt1111 :00 on Wednesday 'fitghts. Wtiattmore could 
d ~~~{~~~at!~~~~~~~~~~;~f~~~~~5:~:~i~2a~~~~~\~:go~~~te:~?~i 
.. 

..... 

--------------:-­
Tuesday, February I, 1994 

•
ND WillS, 76-58 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 

Problems? Cal-State Northridge has problems. Monday's 76-58 loss to Notre Dame falls somewhere near the bottom of the list. The Matadors can laugh about their troubles now, two weeks after an earthquake turned their city into rubble. But the reality of recovery still awaits the players and coaches 
when they return home from a therapeutic two-game roacl trip. "Life on the road is hell," joked Northridge coach Pete Cassidy. "But I do think it's healthy for all of us mentally to preoccupy 
ourselves with basketball at least for a little while. We're more fortunate than the people back home dwelling on what happened." The Matadors' problems make Notre Dame's first victory in its 
last seven games bittersweet at best. But when you're losing, a win is a win, even if it takes an earth­quake to make it happen. 
"(Northridge) is going through a very tough situation," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "When you're struggling, a win any­where, anyplace is a good win." 
It won't be listed among the great games in the history of Notre Dame basketball, but it will be listed among the wins. 
Monday's battle between two of college basketball's six re­maining independent teams could have been the poster child for joining a conference. 
It was an Independents Daze at the Joyce Center. Without the fireworks. A piece of a light bulb fell to the floor, but that's it. They don't even turn on the spotlight for the introductions any­more. 
It wasn't until Admore White's long alley-oop to Monty Williams midway through the second half that the sparse and lethargic crowd stopped yawning. 
The play gave Notre Dame its largest lead at 54-36, finally shak­ing the pesky Matadors. From that point it was cruise control. 
"We logically tailed a bit tonight," MacLeod said, noting his team's outstanding performances against Duke and Providence in the past week. "We were sluggish early and we were kicking it all over the place." 
Northridge stayed close in a sloppy first half, thanks in part to 12 Notre Dame turnovers. But an 8-0 Notre Dame run began when Monty Williams spotted 
--------'"----~ 
Jon Ross in the open court, who dunked home two of his six points. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
-~---~---~­



SPORTS 
Notre Dame's Billy Taylor drives past Northridge's Shawn Stone in last night's 76-58 Irish victory. 
see WIN I page 12 

Notre Dame tennis teams chiim victory over weekend 
Women roll over Drake and Miami 
By KATE CRISHAM Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team improved its record to 3-0 by soundly defeating Drake and Miami of Ohio at the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Saturday. 
The team, ranked 18th nationally, won five of six singles matches and all three doubles matches in its 8-1 victory over Miami. 
Senior Christy Faustman, sophomore Holyn Lord, and freshman Erin Gowan were all double winners for the Irish against the Redskins. The only loss for Notre Dame was senior Lisa Tholen, who dropped a hard-fought 7-6, 5-7, 6-3 decision to Dale Cohen at No. 1 singles. 
The Irish continued their winning ways into the afternoon with a 7-1 victo­ry over Drake. All six Notre Dame play­ers won their singles matches, while Lord and senior Sherri Vitale teamed up to defeat Lindsay Bell and Stephanie Dewald 6-2, 6-4 in No. 1 doubles to seal up the victory for the Irish. 
"I thought we played pretty well," said head coach Jay Louderback. "We're switching lineups right now and trying to give everybody a chance to play." 
"Erin Gowan played real well. She's a very, very good competitor and really did a great job in her singles matches." 
Gowen overcame an early case of the see ROLL I page 12 



Injury plagued men breeze past Illinois 
· By PHIL LANGER Sports Writer 
Not even injuries are enough to stop the Notre Dame men's tennis team. 
The squad. which is currently unde­feated in the winter season, beat Illinois 5-2 last Saturday without senior Andy Zurcher and freshmen Michael Mather and Ron Mencias. All three of these top 
• see TOURNEY, page 13 
players were sidelined by injuries. 
Mather was still recovering from back surgery, Mencias was overcoming tennis elbow and Zurcher, currently ranked No. 36 in the nation and No. 1 for the Notre Dame, was forced out of the lineup Saturday morning when he woke up with an extremely swollen knee. 
"I think it speaks well for the character of the team that we won without three of our top weapons," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. 
The primary weight of Zurcher's absence was felt by freshman Ryan Simme. 
Simme, the 32nd-ranked player in the country, successfully filled the No. 1 sin­gles spot by beating Jerry Turek 7-6, 6-4. 
"Ryan showed me an awful lot, " com-
see TENNIS I page 13 

Inside SPORTS 

Swimming Winter Olympics 
Fencing Jesslyn Peterson was one 
Captain Grew Wozniak of Notre Dame's few 
With less than two weeks 
and the Irish fencing shining stars in last 
until opening ceremonies 
teams defeated defend­weekend's loss to St. 
Olympic hopefuls pre­ing NCAA champ
pare for Lillehammer.
.

I
Bonaventure. 

Columbia on Sunday . see page 14 
see page 14 Lillehammer'94 
0{(9 see pages 10 and 11 





