
Friday, January 28, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 78 
rI I ~ I N II [ 11 I N [) l N I 0-L \ V \ I':\ I' I I~ \ l I~\ I \: 1. , \: -\. ) I I U I ) . \ .\ \ I \ .'-J l) \ J\ I N I tv\ A I~\ \ 
Elkhart, South Bend 'dropping their guns' 
By JOHN LUCAS Associate News Editor 
Nearly three months after the accidental shoot­ing death of John Frangis, a 19-year old Elkhart man, a new program dedicated to his memory has taken 166 firearms off the street. 
In addition, the success of the plan has inspired South Bend civic leaders to begin to plan a local version of the effort. 
The idea behind the Elkhart gun buyback pro­gram, officially titled, "Drop Your Guns," is a sim­ple one. Anyone who has a handgun to dispose of can bring it in, no questions asked, during a monthly gun buyback day to receive $40. Anyone bringing in a rifle receives $20, and $100 is paid for an automatic weapon. 
Sitting at John Frangis' funeral, Duane Beck, pastor of Elkhart's Belmont Mennonite church, was moved to begin the buybacks. 
"God put this in my lap," Beck said. "I got the idea looking into the faces of 150 stunned kids." 
Since the conception of the idea, Frangis' friends and other youths who have had their lives touched by violence haveplanned the three buy­backs that have been held so far. The most recent was held two weekends ago. 
The buyback has been successful in more than just getting guns off the streets, according to Beck. "Organizing the program, and having a cause to get behind has honestly turned around the lives of some of these kids." 
So far, more than $5,000 has been paid for the weapons, Beck said. Much of the money was raised by the youths working with him. 
"The kids wanted to do it so John wouldn't die in vain," he said. 
The South Bend program will also try to involve children, according to organizer Homer Nissley. Nissley, a junior high teacher, heard of the suc­cess in Elkhart and worked to get his parish involved. 
"We want to involve kids so this isn't just a one-shot gun buyback," Nissley said. "We can make this a broad ranged educational effort." 
With the backing of the South Bend Tribune, organizers of the program met with city officials Wednesday morning to plan the program. Support for the program is nearly unanimous, according to Nissley. 
Sgt. Ron Garrasant holds up two weapons that have been confiscated by the South Bend 
Police Department. The Police dispose of the weapons by taking them to a local foundry 

see BUYBACK 1page 4 
to be mettled down. 
L---------------------------------------------------~ 

NRA losing fight over gun control 
By JOHN LUCAS Associate News Editor 
In the wake of the December massacre of commuters on the Long Island railroad, gun con­trol advocates are .beginning to gain momentum in the battle over gun rights, according to government professor Martin Saiz. 
"In the past, the NRA (National Rifle Association) has been extremely effective in stopping nearly every gun con­trol measure," he said. "But now, not only are they vulner­able because of the increase in crime, but also because of con­cerns on the power of special interests. They're on the dark side of the policy moon." 
While gun control advocates cite a growing number of bloody shootings and crimes committed in the heat of the moment as reason for tighter controls and waiting periods. Supporters of gun rights con­tinue to contend that criminals will get guns despite any legis­lation enacted. 
"The problem is that anyone, given the right circumstances, could commit a violent act," said South Bend Chief of Police Ronald Marciniak. "Gun con­trol measures only effect law­abiding citizens. It doesn't faze criminals." 
Although crime was a major focus of President Clinton's 
see CONTROL I page 4 


Faculty concerned with students' daily obstacles 
BY JENNIFER LEWIS 
News Writer 
Catholic women face many obstacles in today's society including eating disorders, sui­cide, drug and alcohol abuse. Saint Mary's College is finding ways to overcome these prob­lems, according to a faculty and administrative panel discussion on the value of Catholic educa­tional institutions. 
The panel, consisting of Sister Miriam Patrick Conney, Prof. Keith Egan, Assistant Prof. Mary Caputi, and Mady De­pauw, Director of Counseling and Career Development, de­bated these neglected problems which Saint Mary's students face in their lives. 
The panel's goal was to en­courage students to put Catholicism in their daily deci­sions and activities andexplore their feminism and religion. 
"When you explore religion you become delighted with it," Egan said. 
One of the main concerns dis­cussed was alcoholism. 
In January 1990 Saint Mary's conducted a study of their stu­dents. Fifty two percent of the students said at least one night in the last two weeks she had five or more drinks in one night. More than 60 percent said they had done something they regretted and suffered from memory loss after using alcohol. Forty percent of the students admitted to driving under the influence of alcohol. 

"We are really trying to put the issues on the table," said Depauw. "We are a little faster then the Catholic Church (in discussing these issues)." 
Cooney challenged Saint Mary's students to overcome academic obstacless by step­ping up to work in the field of mathematics. 
According to Cooney, not enough women succeed in math because they are led to believe it is a male dominated field. This is a problem for too many college women. 
"We are trying to bring women out of those beliefs," she said. "The more confident women take more math." 
According to Egan, we have to go beyond what is written in the Bible and explore our be­liefs as Catholics in today's world. We encourage students to think about ethics in making their daily life decisions. 


Forum explores gender issues 
By JOSLIN WARREN 
News Writer 
The Gender Studies Faculty Forums are an excellent way for students and faculty to pre­sent works on various gender issues and participate in a per­sonal exchange of ideas, ac­cording to Gender Studies di­rector Professor Ann Collins. 
"The forums promote an in­tellectual exchange between faculty and students that goes beyond the classroom," said Collins. 
The genders studies forum is the only ongoing forum of its kind on campus. It was estab­lished three years ago to allow students and facUlty to present their work on gender issues and receive some feedback from the community. 
"There is a great deal of gen­der work going on and anyone who wants to present that work can come to the forums," Collins said. "It's a good way to put things out and see what others are doing." 
For fifteen weeks of each semester there is a set schedUle of speakers and topics that range from "What's Wrong With the Pro-Choice Move­ment" to "Language and Gen­der: Implications for Women in Engineering". 
"There are various papers within several disciplines and most of it is written for publica­tion," said Collins. 
Last week's presentation by JUlia Douthwaite entitled "Sight and Insight in La Princesse de Cleves" was an "encyclopedic type entry for a literary ency­clopedia," she said. 
see FORUM I page 4 

ND student attacked near Grotto 
Observer Staff Report 
A black male attacked a fe­male Notre Dame student early Monday morning near the Grotto, Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security, reported Wednesday. Security has no suspects. 
A friend of the Victim notified Security Tuesday night. Al­though the victim first re­quested anonymity, she came forward yesterday and filed a report. 
The victim was leaving the Grotto Monday at 3 a.m. when a man grabbed her from be­hind and threatened sexual as­sault. The two struggled on the ground until she stabbed him with a brooch pin, kicked him in the stomach and fled. 
The man is 20 to 28 years old, 6 feet 2 inches tall and has a slender build and closely cut, curly hair. Hurley said he has big, callused hands and was wearing a plain, blue, hooded sweatshirt and white shoes with black Nike markings. 
• In a separate incident, Hur­ley said Security has a suspect in a rash of thefts this week. A man fled Cavanaugh today after a student discovered him attempting to steal stereo equipment from a room. 
The man is black, about 20 years old and 6 feet 4 inches tall. He has a thin build, a dark complexion and a goatee. He was wearing a red-billed base­ball cap and a black jacket. 
In three other incidents Mon­day and Tuesday, over $1,000 worth of stereo equipment and clothing were stolen from Dillon and Keenan Halls. 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, January 28, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Parietals were here before you, so deal with it 

"Psst...didyahear? Notre D a m e has...ugh...Parietals." 
"Oh! No way! That is so gross! What is it?" "Not sure, but it must be bad. Maybe, get this, even 
catching. All I know is that
it has something to do with 
the opposite sex ­eeghads! It may be worse than cooties -and it 
involves some sort of 
quarantine during the -------­night." 
"This could be bad...real bad." 
"Did you know? Man, I knew but I didn't think it was this bad... " 
"WHOA! Here it is, pg. 13 du Lac, right after premarital sex and a few paragraphs before the prohibiting of catapults on campus. Okay, this is what it says: 
•... a policy oflimited parietal visitation to fos­ter the personal and social development ofresi­dence hall students while. at the same time. responding to the safety. security and privacy needs of students sharing common living space.· 
"Hmm, I thought it was w~rse than all that." 
"You mean, all we have to do is kick Sam Flotz out at two or twelve? You were overre­acting big time. Silly, you were acting like it was a disease. Way to wig out, Domer." 
Consider this, the people who constantly com­plain about the University's policy regarding parietals and single-sex dorms were aware o the policy when they sent in their freshmen deposits. 
Just as the women of Saint Mary's considered an all-women's education when choosing col­leges and just as you contemplated whether or not you could survive the weather in South Bend for four years, so should you have consid­ered the fact that Notre Dame has, and proba­bly will forever. parietals and single sex dorms. Had you wanted an unrestricted, co-ed living environment you may have wanted to consider that before deciding to go here. 
The reasons often given in favor of lengthen­ing or eliminating the parietal policy are that the policy does not mimic real society nor does it allow for a hip-happening social life. 
These are arguments but not ones worth the time of the du Lac committee. \Yhy? Because students come to Notre Dame to receive an edu­cation. And insuring an academic and safe environment is the goal of this policy. 
If those who continue to argue that parietals and single-sex dorms are not representative o a society, please explain how any college expe­rience-be it at Notre Dame or University o (insert state here}-is a realistic model of soci­ety. 
In response to all those who disagree with the policies of this university. which were estab­lished not only to instill a foundation of values but to foster the consideration for those living around you...you made your choice, now live 
with it. ' 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o 
The Observer.  
TODAY'S STAFF  
News Laura Ferguson David Tyler Sports George Dohrmann Mike Norbut Lab Tech Thomas Zipprich Graphics Brendan Regan  Production Bridgette Farrell Kira Hutchinson Etc. Kenya Johnson Bevin Kovalik Chris Weirup Business Michael Martin David Clairmont  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
'~ 
.· .· ••··· .•.. 
i. .;. Rose Dilenschneider 
Ad Designer 

Shouldh~omeone tell the Popeabout t ts? • 
More than 16 years after his death, hundreds of thousands of devoted Elvis fans still revere "The •·. King," holding festivals in his name, decorating ·· · their homes with his pictures, even praying to him. Now, a British television documentary making its 
U.S. premiere Friday night raises the question of whether Elvis worship has become a religion. "The King and Me," produced by Tullstar Productions and part of the weekly series "The Human Factor," will be shown on The Faith and Values Channel. The cable network, which reaches 20 million homes, will show the half-hour documentary again 
on Monday and next Thursday. ....""""--+----'---!.--+iH_o_cu_crs+-----=.:.='-"-'---'="'--'---''­
L· 

Depending on how the question is worded,.several • national polls in recent years have found from 6 percent to 16 percent of Americans believe Elvis Feb. 13 still may be alive. "The King and Me" producers estimate up to a million people worldwide are devoted followers of Elvis. Those interviewed make it clear they do not consider Elvis to be God, and Feb. 14 some note Elvis hi-mself would discourage such 
speculation. But several of the trappings of religion are evident Feb. 15 in the way Elvis fans express their devotion. On the anniversaries of his Aug. 16, 1977. death, thou­sands of Elvis pilgrims walk single file at his Feb. 16· 
Feb. 18 

Graceland mansion, touching candles to torches fired from an eternal flame at the grave. 
Feb. 19 
. d

D Q 1 d potatoes: reumte
anuay e an 
Feb. 20 
PlANO, Texas 

When the Dallas Cowboys and 
.~X the Buffalo Bills revisit their rival-1;·· · .... ry on Super Bowl on Sunday, for-qi , · Feb. 21 mer Vice President Dan Quayle t will tackle an old nemesis: The F+: 
potato(e). Quayle will make a, ·· 
Feb. 22· 

cameo appearance in a commer­
Feb. 24 

cial for Wavy Lay's Potato Chips to be shown just before halftime."I Feb. 25 love football and potato chips. so this was a natu­ral," Quayle said in a statement from Indianapolis. "Potatoes have become a big part of my life, but this Feb. 26 time I'm enjoying them!" While vice president in June 1992, Quayle erroneously instructed a New Jersey elementary school pupil to spell "potato" as Feb. 27 "potatoe" during a spelling bee. 
Frito-Lay Inc. said the 60-second commercial, filmed at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta, will be 
shown only once. The spot also features 12-year-old '=-so_u_rc-e:-=c=-es~sp-o~rts-----------------=-A-=-PIB=-:-ria-n-=-s;.--pp-:-'le a~tor Elijah Wood and Cowboys quarterback Troy Just in case recent events in the skating world made you forget, CBS Aikman. will be broadcasting more than just one Olympic event. 
FCC backs away from Stern's employer 
WASHINGTON 

Regulators are reluctantly prepared to let radio shock jock Howard Stern's employer buy a big Los Angeles sta­tion -backing away from earlier threats to block the deal, The New York Times reported today. The Federal Communications Commission discussed penalizing Stern's employer by nixing the purchase, but the FCC is concerned such drastic punishment would be overturned in court, said the newspapers. It is the legal question that will lead to a favorable decision by Tuesday for Infinity Broadcasting Corp. of New York, the newspapers report­ed. Infinity's prize property, Stern, has angered regula­tors for years with his radio talk of sex -resulting in heavy FCC fines against Infinity for allegedly violating the indecency standard. The company is contesting the fines. The FCC delayed approving Infinity's application to buy the station last month. The company said delaying past Jan. 1 could cost it. millions of dollars in penalties. 
INDIANA Weather 
Thursday, Jan. 27 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 27. 
FRONTS: 
"T'"'T"" ..A....A.... ~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
"Lemons" cite the worst in commercials 
WASHINGTON 
Too many ads mislead, a group of consumer advocates said Thursday in presenting "lemon awards" to commer­cials that claim gasoline is clean, milk can make your skin smooth and a candy is "so fruity you can hardly bear it." "Deceptive advertising will remain commonplace until the Federal Trade Commission breaks with the past and becomes more efficient," Bruce Silverglade, legal director of the Center for Science in the Public Interest. said at a news conference announcing the group's 1993 Harlan Page Hubbard Memorial Awards. The awards­faux gold trophies topped with real lemons -are named for a 19th century ad man who touted such products as Lydia Pinkham's Vegetable Compound, a supposed cure for everything from impotence to cancer. None of the 12 "honorees" showed up to receive their awards. 
8p.m.-11 p.m. 11:35 p.m.-12:35 a.m. 9a.m.-noon 2:30 p.m.-6 p.m. 8 p.m.-11 p.m.11 :35 p.m.-12:35 p.m. 7a.m.-9 a.m. 8p.m.-11 p.m.
12:37-1:37 a.m. 7a.m.-9 a.m.
8 11:30
p.m-p.m.
1:07 a.m.-2:07 a.m. 
7a.m.-9 a.m.
8p.m.-11 p.m.
12:37 a.m.-1:37 a.m. 
1p.m.-6 p.m. 7p.m.-11 p.m.
H:35p.m.-12:35a.m. 
9a.m.-noon 3:30 p.m.-6 p.m.8p.m.-11 p.m.11:35 p.m.-12:35 a.m. 
7a.m.-9 a.m. 1p.m.-6 p.m.8p.m.-11:30 p.m. 1:07 a.m.-2:07 a.m. 
7a.m.-9 a.m. 8p.m.-11 p.m.12:37 a.m.-1:37 a.m. 
7a.m.-9 a.m. 
8 p.m.-11:30 p.m.1:07 a.m.-2:07a.m. 
1p.m.-6p.m.7p.m.-11 p.m. 11:35 p.m.-12:35 a.m. 
9a.m.-noon 4p.m.-6 p.m.8p.m.-11 p.m. 11:35 p.m.-12:35 a.m. 
4 10.5 
6 6.5 18 10 9.5 
11.5 
18 6.5 10 11 Opening ceremony; hockey, alpine skiing 
Hockey; speed and fi9ure $kating; alpine
and cross-country skiing; luge 
Skiing; alpine and cross-country skiing;speed and figure skating; hockey; luge 
Skiing; cross-country, freestyle and alpineskiing; figure skating; luge; hockey 
Luge; cross-country, alpine, freestyle skiing;speed, figure skating; hockey; luge; nordic combined; bobsled; ski jumping; biathlon 
Hockey; bobsled; nordic combined; figureand speed skating; alpine and 
cross-country skiing 
Hockey; speed and figure skating; alpineskiing; hockey; biathlon; ski jumping;bobsled 
Freestyle, cross country and alpine skiing;hockey, figure and speed skating 
Cross-country, alpine and freestyle skiing;figure and speed skating; ski jumping;hockey; nordic combined 
Bobsled; ski jumping; skiing; alpine skiing;figure and speed skating; hockey 
Hockey; biathlon; figure and short track speed skating; alpine skiing; bobsled 
Hockey; bobsled; alpine and cross-countryskiing; closing ceremony; Olympic wrapup 


Pl'fiSSUffJ 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Atlanta  53  41  Dallas  49  39  New Orleans  72  66  
Baltimore  22  20  Denver  37  23  New York  25  0  
Boston  17  0  Los Angeles  65  50  Philadelphia  27  11  
Chicago  33  20  Miami  75  73  Phoenix  62  41  
Columbus  42  29  Minneapolis  20  13  San Francisco  47  43  



--~--~~------~-~~-------~----------------.-.-,-.-.-.-.-----------------------­

Friday, January 28, 1994 
Experiment approved with time limits, subsidies 
By JENNIFER DIXON Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In a preview of the presiden­t's plan to overhaul the nation's welfare system, the Clinton administration gave Florida permission Thursday to exper­iment with time-limited bene­fits and subsidies to employers who hire welfare recipients. 
A senior administration offi­cial said Florida's demonstra­tion project is significant be­cause it mirrors President Clinton's efforts to expand edu­cation, training and child-care for parents on welfare while limiting their benefits to two years. 
In his State of the Union ad-

TUESDAY 
Waste the night at the fountain! .~· $P//l NER$ WEDNESDAY ~~ ite Club If youire from Long l1/ani, your name is B. Mary, or you like ws/11, this is the place to bel 
THURSDAY Laiie1 Night••• FREE 'Til10:30! Men alwayt welcome! 
FRIDAY &SATURDAY Open 8 pm-3 ami! DJ 's, dancing, or hangin' with friends! •Downtown South Bend on Woodward, right between Colfax & Washington• 
dress Tuesday, Clinton promised to introduce welfare­reform legislation this spring. Although the administration has outlined its plan in broad terms, it has yet to make the tough decisions about costs and financing. 
Seventeen Senate Republi­cans, including Minority Leader Bob Dole, tried to upstage Oin­ton by introducing their own plan Thursday. 
Similar to the House Republi­cans' bill, the Senate measure would require more welfare re­cipients to work, limit aid to immigrants, and force unmar­ried teen-age mothers to live with a parent to qualify for wel­fare. 
~\ ~ 
The Observer • NEWS page3 
The Observer/ Eric Ruethling 
Learning the hard way 
Jim Jaques (in black), sensei of the Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute, makes sure one of his pupils will never forget how to execute this move. 




Racist on trial in Evers murder 
By MITCHELL LANDSBERG Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. 
In the same soaring court­room where he was twice tried 30 years ago, unrepentant racist Byron De La Beckwith went on trial Thursday for the third time in the assassination of civil rights leader Medgar Evers. 

Evers was gunned down with a bullet "aimed by prejudice, propelled by hatred and fired by a coward, a back-shooting coward," Assistant District At­torney Bobby DeLaughter told the jury in his opening state­ment. 
His first witness, Evers' 

widow, Myrlie, swept away the years with an emotional and bitter accounting of the night her husband was shot in the driveway of their Jackson home while she and their three chil­dren were inside. They had been up late on June 12, 1963, watching President Kennedy deliver a groundbreaking speech on civil rights. 
"We heard the car pull in the driveway and this horrible blast, and the children fell to the floor as he had taught them to do," she recalled, her usually commanding voice beginning to quaver. "The baby was on the bed with me, and I just bolted up off the bed and ran to the front door, and opened the front door, and there was Medgar on the ground, reach­ing toward the door with his keys in his hand. 
"I screamed, I guess uncon­trollably, and the children ran out and they cried out, 'Daddy! Daddy! Please get up, Daddy!' " 

DIRECT FROM 
FUTONS 
All prices include convertible frame and mat. 
LAFREE ENTERPRISES 259-6201 
Indian Ridge Plaza Next to Venture Grape Rd.. Mishawaka 
277·7941> expires 2-28-94 


19940\JcagoHarcurungCo. 

--~-------~------­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 28, 1994 
raised several thousand dollars that naive. We hope that guns "You can't minimize it (the of seed money for the project. will be handed in by families problems with violence,)B~yback "There's a belief that some­and youths that would be used Control Marciniak said. "Yes, it's seri­thing needs to happen here (in by children who were playing ous, but no I do not feel like it
continued from page 1
continued from page 1 

South Bend)," Sutter said. around." is out of control." 
While there is no timetable set for the buyback, the next few weeks will be devoted to contacting school leaders and beginning to identify students who would like to become part of the effort. 
Although enthusiastic about having fewer firearms on the streets, Ronald Marciniak, the South Bend chief of police, ex­pressed concern that private funding would be needed to make the plan a reality. 
"We would like to cooperate and assist with the logistics of a gun buyback, but we would need someone else to fund the program," he said. 
Although everything is in the early stages of planning, finding funding may not be as difficult as expected, according to David Sutter, pastor of the Kern Road Mennonite Church. 
So far, Sutter and the Kern Road Mennonite Church, have 

Forum 
continued from page 1 
There has been a strong re­sponse to the forum and it has received a great deal of sup­port from several departments. "Almost every department has been represented and pre­sented some type of work on gender issues," stated Collins. The forums "are very informal and everyone is encouraged to come" each Thursday at 12:15 
p.m. in 131 Decio Hall. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-7471. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,CXXl Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 


• Out-Of.Print Search Service -$2.00 
• Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to .UC T...UV through Bunct.y 1027 E. WIIYM South Bend, IN 41117 (2111232-8444 


London  $395*  
Paris  $389*  
Madrid  $389*  
Munich  $515*  
Milan  $585*  

•Airfares are roundtrip from Chicago. Restrictions apply, taxes are not included end fores are subject to change. Call IcY other worldwide destinations. 

Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St, 2nd floor Chicago,ll60610 
311·951·0585 

Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 
"Violence is an issue that has touched a lot of people, and you begin to make connections with people who are interested in contributing." 
"We've had no problem get­ting money," Beck said of the Elkhart program. "We've even received donations from emer­gency room doctors and funeral home directors. Those are peo­ple who know what life on the other side of a gun is like." 
Although the program is a start at curtailing guns and vio­lence, Beck said that the crime problem will not end because of the buyback effort. 
"Its ironic that more guns were probably bought at Elkhart gun shops over Christmas than were collected by the buyback program so far," he said. 
The South Bend group has the same expectation, Nissley said. 
"We're not thinking that a bunch of thugs will come in and hand in their guns-we're not 

"SEE THIS MOVIE Ar ALL Com. Ir's HYSTERICAL!" 
Chris Mundy, "RAVES", ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE 
"Deliciously accurate in its portrayal of the generation that fell hetween LSD and R.E.M." 
Juliann Garey, US MACAZINE 
&W.Ifii:Y lt:llllls ~m 11 AIAIA~lli -~~ •~m•wr~ ~~~~~~ mmocntlH liAlm AMJMfW ,..UI.IHHIO .a•m11111M1UUAMfl mliEANNfWAm~-lk~Ar m1nJAMI~M~ ~[A~ ~AM[[ OOllAAO liNI:lA!m 1~. .IUIIItlli~IID!AOOlllA!m I .:.~====1 6 
~----·--· ~ 
NOTREDAME 
COMMUNICATION & THEATER 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
7:30 AND 9:30 
The buybacks are successful, according to Beck, because they remove guns from home where they could be accidental­ly fired by children, or used by adults in arguments or other crimes "in the heat of passion." 
"In the past when a bunch of guys sitting around playing poker and drinking beer had an argument, the might have trad­ed a few punches," Nissley said. "Now, you may have a dead guy instead of a guy with a black eye." 
In the past, the Kern Road Church has sponsored a. pro­gram which encouraged chil­dren to trade in their toy guns for teddy bears. Taking things to the next level would be the logical step, according to Niss­ley. 
"In many ways the program is symbolic," he said. "But having 500 guns off the street won't be doing anyone harm." 
State-of-the Union address on Wednesday, Marciniak wonders if the measures Clinton propos­es are the real answer to America's problems. 
"We are not the solution to the problem, and guns are not the problem," Marciniak said. 
"Until we do something about our society, more police and tighter gun control measures are just a band-aid. We are just holding the line-just like the boy with his finger in the dike." 
Last year in the city of South Bend, 15 out of 19 homicides involved firearms, Marciniak said. Also, around two-thirds of the 577 aggravated assaults committed in South Bend in­cluded guns. 







~N ESpA 
~ -..,1): 
~ 0 
~ Spanish Mass r­
domingo, 30 de Enero de 1994 
11:30 a.m. BADIN HALL CHAPEL 
Celebrante Padre Dan Groody, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
•
= 

In the past, the public was concerned with foreign affairs, Saiz said, but recently, since the end of the Cold War, there has been a growing concern for domestic affairs, and especially crime. 
"A lot of it has to do with a shift in public policy concerns in the American public," Saiz said. "The momentum they (gun control advocates) have will probably help them get more gun control legislation." 
By combining Clinton's ideas for more police, the "three-time loser" plan with better social and education programs, the crime and violence might be curbed. "We would need to package any further gun con­trol measures," Saiz suggested. 


The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS pageS 
The Observer/Thomas Zipprich 
Exchanging pleasantries 
Senior Hoa Quach and a Notre Dame alum shake hands in LaFortune at an Alumni Association function yesterday. 





~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for 

Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be com­fortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any full-time Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior Business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills, and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Please submit a 3 page personal statement ofintent and a resume to jake Peters by Friday, February 4 at 5 p.m. For questions about the positions call Managing Editor, Kevin Hardman at 631-4541 or Business Manager Brian Kennedy at 631-5313. 
THE ACTION HITS HERE ~~SUPERBOWL SUNDAY!~~ Come, join us for a BLAST at our newest location near Service Merchandise. SUPERBOWL SPECIAL Super 25C Do01estic WINGS Specials in-house only  


Deputy leaves Reno over style 
By MICHAEL SNIFFEN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Deputy Attorney General Philip Heymann, a veteran of four administrations who served as right-hand man to Janet Reno, resigned unexpect­edly Thursday -a move they both attributed to differences in management style and chem­istry. 
And a special assistant to Reno, Lula Rodriguez, who is under Justice Department in­vestigation over alleged vote fraud in a Miami-area election, also resigned, spreading tur­moil to the top of a third key Cabinet department. 
The sudden moves at Justice followed recent high-level changes at the Defense Department, where the secre­tary resigned and his proposed replacement withdrew recently, and the State Department, where the No. 2 man left last year. 
There has been speculation that Reno herself has tallen from favor in the White House, which President Clinton denied as recently as last week. A spe­cial counsel has been named to investigate rmancial dealings in Arkansas including some by the department's No. 3 official, Webster Hubbell, when he was a law partner to Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
Reno, a former state prosecu­tor, is the first attorney general in recent memory to operate without a chief of staff. Instead, she relied heavily on Heymann, who served at Justice in the Johnson administration, worked for the Watergate spe­cial prosecutor during the Nixon administration and ran Justice's criminal division dur­ing the Carter administration. 
Most of the hottest potatoes and Reno's priority programs were sent to Heymann's office for handling, including a review of mandatory minimum crimi­nal sentences, a report on the FBI's bloody· siege of the Branch Davidian complex in Waco, Texas, and the depart­ment investigation of Rodriguez, which was later transferred to the internal watchdog unit. 
Heymann's departure brought an instant Republican attack on Reno. Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R­N.Y., told reporters, "The Justice Department ... is being 
Senators recommend lifting Vietnam sanctions 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Twenty years after the last American soldier left Vietnam, two senators who bear the scars of that war helped con­vince their colleagues Thursday the -time has come to lift trade sanctions. 
It's time to "put the war behind us," said Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., a Vietnam vet­eran who was wounded three times. Better relations will enhance the search for MIAs, said Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., a former POW who spoke of going to sleep every night in prison camp "memorizing the names of those who were with us" so they would not be left behind. 
The 62-38 vote urging the administration to lift the trade embargo "expeditiously" was not binding, but it provides con­siderable impetus for the administration as it moves toward normalizing relations run by someone who could qualify for the original amateur hour and who has been less than what this nation should be demanding as an attorney gen­eral." 
At the White House, spokes­woman Dee Dee Myers denied the administration was embar­rassed by the resignation. "Certainly not. I think Phil Heymann served well for a year. I think he made clear what his reasons were for leav­ing," she said. 
Reno disputed any notion of disarray. "I think the American people understand ... how one goes through the process of building a team in which people are compatible, in which their styles are the same," she said. 
Reno and Heymann sat side­by-side to announce his depar­ture at her regularly weekly news conference. 
"We don't have any great pol­icy differences," Heymann insisted. "There is no precipi­tating case or event. The fact of the matter is our chemistry isn't good. We don't work as well together as we should, and that's the conclusion we've both come to." 
with the former enemy. 
Veterans' groups, most strongly against relaxing restrictions on Vietnam until there is a full accounting of Americans still missing from the war, were angered by the vote. 
"We were somewhat stunned that they didn't listen to the veterans and families" who feel Vietnam is still not forthcoming on the POW-MIA issue, said Phil Budahn, spokesman for the American Legion. 
Yet it was the Vietnam veter­ans in the Senate -led by Kerry and McCain -who were the most eloquent in urging an end to the enmity and the beginning of trade relations. 
"If you want to serve the fam­ilies you will vote to lift the embargo. If you want to put the war behind us and act in a statesmanlike fashion and move to the future and protect the interests of this nation you will vote to lift the embargo," Kerry said. 
SECURITY BRIEF 
MON., JAN. 24 

11 :51 a.m. Security transproted a Walsh Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness. 6:15p.m. Security responded to a two vehicle accident at the JACC access drive. There were no injuries reported. 
TUES., JAN. 25 
8:36 a.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his VCR from his room. His room was unlocked at the time of the theft. 

9:01 a.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported the theft of his jacket from his room. His room was unlocked at the time of the theft. 
12:46 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft of his bookbag which was left unattended at the time of the theft. 
11:31 p.m. A Farley Hall resident reported receiving harassing telephone calls. 
WED., JAN. 26 
9:36 a.m. Security transported an off-cam­pus student to the Student Health Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall. 
11 :10 a.m. Security transported an off­campus student to the Student Health Center for treatment of an illness. 
12:37 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident report­ed the theft of his CD player from his room. 
5:26 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported receiving harassing telephone calls. 

......-----~~~--~--------.....--~-.~--·-~ -~·--~---~­


The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 28, 199 
/P'RING I'REAKE'R'/ GUI'DE ~ftnftMft CITY ~fftC~. 4lORIDft 94
Bay Advertising Associates 1994 

Summit Condominiums 
Next Door to Club La Vela 
& Spinnaker Beach Club 



ERS" 
1-Bdrm. -$725.00 weekly 2-Bdrm. -$850.00 weekly Weekly rates for 1 to 4 adults Plus all State and Local Taxes. 
After4 adults $10.00 perperson pernightextra 
Deposit required on all rooms. Must be 21 years of age to book room. Price per person $159.00 based on a six person occupancy. 
1 
1-800-824-5048 

PANAMA CITY BfACH, flORrOA 
Clean • Affordable SUGAR SANDS t\\OTEL
Sea-View Motel 
HOOTERS
& Apartments 

· Panama City Beach, FL ·Directly on the Gulf of Mexico 
Room Rates as low as 
$52 per night

Welcomes All 
$45.00 per night 
Efficiency -1&2 bedrooms 
•with kitchens 
~ J (4person
Full Kitchens available 

..r.>.o f ~ occupancy} 
Across from the Beach 

SPRING BREAKERS 
1-800-732-8839 
Have a Safe & Fun Spring Break 

r·············-· 
icAArCCIC I Beach lla1fre Pri!s ~lslond Pgmise Tiil Beldi BI'IVtli',M f1iJ GllEleil:h F~Bale~ .------------Sablals,Jelsltil&Pnais 2~~PWs 
KmMe Beach p.fy 1hbrISIIed Pod As tow As S19•9~rxuidrr 
hell llscullt~ Aeslami,2&3RcxmSUies

Buy 10 Wings & Get
CONVENIENTly lOCATEd ON wEsT ENd of MiRAclE STRip DIRECTly ACRoss fRoM Gulf 

$104 per week = 
$2 OFF T -Shirt! 
Pool-KITcHENS AvAilAblE-CAblE TV 

I. I·UOf~4UII·IUI2U 
SANDPIPER-DEAOON MtrmL
I Only Good At Panama City Beach Location 
17403 FRONT BEACH ROADLimit One (1) Per Person PANAMA CITY BEACH, I1L 32-'13 Expires 6/94 
____________ ... -----------------

ALoJtA VillAGE 
1-2 Bedrooms 





SA~ff!L7fnY ,S
Kitchen -Cable -Pool Across from the Beach 


:$59a1-2persons:
11073 FRONT BEACH ROAD (NEXT TO HOLIDAY INN) SPRING BREAK 
I

C:.njoy Casual 'Dining Inside or out-side on our spacious 
deck overlooking t-he beaut-Iful CTulr or Mexico.
SPECIAL 



11-800-458-8552 I I 
As Low As 

L.unch Specials rron1 $2.7'5 
1 

Advanced Reservations I
S1Q.S)§ PER PERSON 

1 Required. Must present I
Dining -Dancing -L.ive Bands
Some Restrictions Apply. 

I coupon at check-in. I 
L~~ !!~I!'!YJ: ~_I
a en II a/'71 -Free Parkin
904-234 t)03L) 


Friday, January 28, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 

N. Ireland terrorists strike again 
By SHA~ POGATCHNIK Associated Press 
BELFAST 

IRA firebombs set off blazes in three stores on London's main shopping street Thursday and two people were killed in Northern Ireland in the first terrorist deaths of the year. 
No one was hurt in the pre­dawn firebombings on Oxford Street, which caused hundreds of thousands of dollars in dam­age, said police. 
There were no claims of re­sponsibility but a Scotland Yard spokeswoman said they were "clearly attributable" to the IRA, the outlawed paramilitary group fighting to end British rule in Northern Ireland. 
The violence comes as the British and Irish governments await a response to their offer to include the IRA's allies, Sinn Fein, in peace negotiations if the IRA stops killing. 
Sinn Fein and the IRA have yet to accept or reject the talks­for-peace offer, protesting that the Anglo-Irish declaration needs "clarification." 
The firebombings were the first attacks in Britain since the initiative was announced in De­cember, although IRA violence has continued in the province. 
The fires damaged a Mother­care mother and baby goods store, the department store C and A and the Silverdale Travel 

£ITIT~~tra®~ 

JUNIOR AND SENIOR MARKETING MAJORS 

Marketing Club Meeting 
Monday, January 31 at 6:30pm Room 122 Hayes-Healy 

Goods store, police said. 
Police closed Oxford Street for about two hours and evacuated six people as officers searched the area. The area was re­opened before the morning rush hour. 
In Northern Ireland, terrorists struck three times, killing two people and wounding two oth­ers. 
Masked gunmen sledge­hammered the front door of a south Belfast home and shot John Desmond Doherty, a 51­year-old Roman Catholic, through the head as he lay in bed, police said. 
The outlawed Ulster Defense Association, based in Northern Ireland's Protestant majority community, claimed responsi­bility. In recent years the "loy­alists" have killed more people than the IRA. 
A woman also in the house was not hurt, police said. 
Later, unidentified gunmen forced their way into a house in Ballymena, 35 miles northwest of Belfast, and fatally shot an electrician as he watched tele­vision. A woman, apparently his wife, was shot in the neck. Both were believed to be Catholics. 
The woman was admitted to a hospital, where her condition was stable. Her daughter was treated for shock. 
No one immediately claimed responsibility. 
z CLASS OF '94 
0 
1­
z 
111.1 
1­
~ 
SENIOR FORMAl 
is coming March 19th so mark your .calendars and keep posted for further information 
(P.S. There will be no raffle at Senior Bar this Friday) 
Prisoners proof linking trade to human rights 
By KATHY WILHELM again debates what to do about Associated Press MFN, Xu and Wei said they 
hope Washington will be tough. 
BEIJING The pressure on the U.S. gov-
The two godfathers of China's ernment to play down human democracy movement make rights is strong this year. China their point with a certain au-is wooing American companies thority: They know Western with the prospect of rich con­pressure advances human tracts if MFN stays in place. rights in China -it got them Some China scholars in the out of prison. United States say the annual 
Wei Jingsheng and Xu Wenli, MFN battle is too bruising and who topped the list of promi-that quiet diplomacy is more ef­nent Chinese political prisoners fective. for more than a decade, say A growing chorus-including they're Exhibits A and Bin this U.S. Ambassador Stapleton Roy year's debate in Washington -says China has already made over how to deal with China. big human rights im-
Using trade to wring human provements. rights concessions out of China Wei, who isn't free to travel "may not be the best method, ~r find work, responded an­but it's what the United States grily. chose," Wei said. "If you re-"It's certainly not true that treat, you lose." now is the best time in Chinese 
They're articulate and savvy history. Many Chinese are dis­exhibits, especially Wei, who gusted with what your ambas­arrived for a joint interview at sador said." Xu's home with his own trans-Xu said he was alarmed by Iator. U.S. Treasury Secretary Lloyd 
The soft-spoken Xu put a tape Bentsen's hints that the United recorder on the table and States might make China's MFN turned it on. Nothing personal, status permanent, eliminating but misquotes could get him in -the annual pressure for human trouble with the police, he said. rights improvements, if China 
Any suspicion that the media-makes significant concessions wise pair actually spent the last this year. dozen years in politics, instead "That would be very bad," Xu of jail, vanishes when they said. "If today they release two laugh: there's barely a full set or three people, tomorrow they of teeth between them. can arrest four or five more." 
Xu, 50, and Wei, 43, were "Very convenient!" Wei cut leading advocates of democrat-in. "The United States should ic reform in 1979-80, cranking ·wait for China to make human out home-mimeographed jour-rights improvements a long­nals of political essays. Wei was term thing, and then gradually arrested in 1979, Xu in 1981; lift sanctions." both were sentenced to 15 Although they-have respect years. and influence in China's dis-
Xu was released last May, as persed dissident community, Washington debated for the Wei and Xu do not speak for all fourth year whether to cancel dissidents. China's most-favored nation Most dissidents and intellec­trade status as punishment for tuals in Beijing say they oppose suppressing dissent. Loss of canceling China's MFN status normal trade status would because they fear the loss of sharply raise tariffs on Chinese the U.S. export market would exports to the United States, cost tens of thousands of facto­effectively shutting them out of ry workers their jobs. their largest market. A veteran dissident in 
Wei was freed in September, Shanghai, Yang Zhou, said he 10 days before the and other local activists agree International Olympic that the United States should Committee voted on Beijing's use MFN to pressure China, but bid to hold the 2000 Olympic not actually cancel it. Games. "We want foreign countries to 
China lost the Olympic bid, concern themselves with but kept its MFN status for an-China's human rights situation, other year. · but also to give China an oppor­
ly," Yang said in a telephone interview.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=:;;:;;:::::===~L-~N:o:w:·~a:s~t:h:e~U~.~S~.:g:ov:e:r:n:m:ent tunity to develop economical­
~ 
II 

L 0 0 k f 0 r 0 u r c 0 u p 0 n s e v e r y F r I d a y i n t h e 0 b s e r v e r ! ,· 
Xu and Wei said the United States should be willing to lift MFN if China fails to make con­cessions: providing information about jailed dissidents, allow­ing Red Cross visits to them, halting exports of prison-made goods and relaxing repression in Tibet. 

They are confident China will 

DiscovER JAVA CoAsT™ FINE coFFEES AND I CAN'T BELIEVE IT's YocuRr® 
not call Washington's bluff be­cause trade is so important to 
its economy. "The way the (Chinese) gov­
DELICIOUS FROZEN YOGURT FOR THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS! 

MON.-SAT. 8AM·10PM 
ernment is behaving, shouting 
SUN. 11AM·10PM 

at the top of its voice -this only shows they are very afraid 
I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOUCURT 

oflosing MFN," Wei said. 
CAMPUS SHOPPES 
"When you are gambling, you 

1837 SOUTH BEND AVENUE, 
watch your opponent's ex­
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46637 
pressions," he added. "The 
United States should pay atten­
219-271-9540
FINE COFFEES 

tion to its opponent's expres­sion." 
r--i~1~c~1FRHIT--,r--i~1~c~1FRHIT--, 
I

: ©@[p_)[p_)[ill©©Qrnl@ : : 
I 

Buy 1 Reg. size cappuccino I I 
Buy 1 Reg. or Large cupI and get 1 Reg. size cappuccino FREE!! I> ~-~ nd get 1 Reg. or Large cup FREE!! I 
I L I I ' ' ' ~fiianueuevv~1 I I r:o~ . I I Yog1Q11J I FINE COFFEES coupon expires 2112/94 ~ .J L~ coupon expires 2/12/94 ,.,.,.,..."'""'"""~ I
L 
---------------~ 

Friday, January 28, 1994 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS 
Japanese parliament abandons compromise efforts 
"the loss of confidence in where the Nikkei Stock Average sions," Hosokawa said at a to reform Japan's political sys­
By DAVID THURBER 
Japan's party politics complete, felll.3 percent Thursday. news conference. tem. 
Associated Press 
and Japan would lose the trust With the Parliament session But early Friday Kono de­The dispute threatens to TOKYO of the international communi­ending Saturday, the committee clined to hold a meeting, the splinter both the Liberal of 10 lawmakers from each Japan Broadcasting Corp. re­Democratic and Socialist par­
Negotiators from the two ty." 
If Hosokawa resigned, he house was unable to narrow ported. ties because of differences of
houses of Parliament aban­
differences over how legislators The reform bills were passed views on reform within each
doned efforts to compromise on would become the third prime 
anti-corruption reforms, throw­minister in five years to do so should be elected and whether by Parliament's lower house in party. 
Defections among the

ing Japanese politics into deep­over failure to reform a scan­they should receive corporate November but voted down by 
er turmoil Thursday night. dal-tainted political system that donations, chairman Yuichi the upper house last Friday in a Socialists, the largest group in 
Ichikawa said. serious blow to Hosokawa's Hosokawa's seven-party coali­
Prime Minister Morihiro has voters growing increasingly 
In a last-ditch effort, government. tion, helped defeat the package
Hosokawa, who has staked his angry. 
The deadlock over reforms Hosokawa urged Yohei Kono, Hosokawa's only other chance in the upper house. 
administration on passage of 
head of the opposition Liberal is to have the lower house over­
the reforms, said earlier in the also has prevented Hosokawa's 
Democratic Party, which op­ride the upper house by a two­In Thursday's negotiations,
day that he is ready to quit if government from putting to­
gether a stimulus package for poses the package, to meet with thirds vote re-approving the the coalition reportedly offered
the reforms fail. 
Japan's stagnant economy and him in an attempt to break the package. Chances of that are to raise the number of single­
"If I cannot deliver on my 
seen as slim. seat districts in the package
promise of political reform, I distracted it from trade talks deadlock. 
When Hosokawa's coalition from 274 to 280. The remain­
will not insist on the post of with the United States that face "It is in the 50-odd hours we a Feb. 11 deadline. have left that we must show the won elections in August, knock­der of the proposed 500 seats
prime minister," he said. 
Pessimism in the business world that Japan has become a ing the scandal-plagued Liberal would be apportioned accord­
Hosokawa said failure to 
mature democracy whose peo­Democrats from power for the ing to the percentage of the
enact reforms would doom five community led to more selling 
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, ple are able to make wise·deci-first time in 38 years, he vowed vote received by each party. 
years of effort and would make 
( /PIING I'REAKE'R'/ GUI1)E19 94~ftnftMft CITY ~fftC~, <flOQIDft llEEP IT UP DURINfl fPRINfl llllEIIIl'lll -.,, (ONE WEEK) ~~"}I (Some Restriction may Apply) let~,.,"The Newest and Largest Gym $1592~~y~in Panama City" "Quad 0cc. Per person* --15,000 lbs of fREE WEiGins -SkowERs/LockERS -STAiRMASTER -CybEX BikEs -SAUNA -TANNiNG BEds -AERobics -Body MAsTERs • 630 Beochfront Located Just l miles Eost er tbe Hathaway Bride;• iD the PaDama Plaza at 15tb & LiseDby RoomsB72-J9SS • Next Door to Spinnaker • FREE Entertainment • Poolside Contests/ Giveaways FREE The Boardwalk beach resort pass 9450 s. Thomas Drive Panama City Beach, Rorida 32408 800-224-GULF Just Buy a 16"-3 Topping Pizza atI ~Grab your toothbrush, I • ~OSeI i*Grab your beach towel-I The PlazaJt~/~c'1..GET $1.00 OFF ANYTHING!* I Przz_~~ ~233-0955 MotelI *Of 11rt~l•t •• ,., •••• er ~1.00 '"••f rpulellf It••· Ll•lt •• per wlrll, ••rt premt c01p•• I amTronas Driven St. Thomas Sq..u;t One Block fran Spimaker & IGood times and great seafood at Shuckums.l LaVela at Thcmas [).and Jca1 Ave. Rooms, 1 15614 Front Beach Road I Kitchenettes &r--------­-~I Quat west of Gulf World • Gall for direGtionel) 1 1 ~o~~! .234-3030 1 2 Bedroom00 ~«~~ East P.C. Beach 1I l!l!t~StAII I Apartments~w~~ 23s-3o3o. Heart of the StripI ..,..-~"' West P.C. Beach Il~A.ti1_~0~!U'.~~~~~.f!Q~!PfJ Panama City BeachI Two Large 2-Topping 1 I Pizzas ( + Cheese) I (904) 233-0028 :-~~;;~-· ~~ I : only $14.99 : 1Disclaimer: Valid at participating stores only. Not VaJid 1SNACK BAR I~O.ll~~ I with any other offer. Sales Tax added w:tere applicable.ARCADE I I I Expires 5-1-94 I"We Have Video Games · Pinball I IGREAT FOOD" ~---------­GIFTSHOP I~~~ I r-----------------,OPEN 24 HOURS Airbrush-T·Shirts I With each $10 game 1 $~00f:»FF HVDF\2:}PACE (During Season) Souveniers 1 token purchase. Must I I ~~ II 3 Hour Snorkeling Trip o:::SHDP­ISNACK BAR I present coupon. Not 14510 F34-ront eeach Rd. Pizza. Sandwiches I good with any other 1 The Most Outrageous, Wildest, 360S·An.-sDrive•NuttoiMTreaJWelloir Wettest Boat trip on the Beach! 234-946~ I2 3693 Beer. Ice Cream offer. Limit one coupon I I lloii'IIW"'thllftYolhenhw:ovll!SIIfpOIIIOiiolls O.!DUpOIIpe~pmon Oflt~tiPJftllK 31,1994 Panama City Beach, flondaCN..,.e,;;,;ar..;th;.;.e;.;..;Fo;,;;u;;,;n;;ta;,;.;ln,;,;;b;;.;le;,;a;,u):.,.._..;B;,;,r,;,;ea;;;;kf;as;,;.'_...,:1~ per person per day -------1" L----------------~  


''''I'',''  
,•,()( It  Of  
Friday, January 28, 1994  The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS  page9  

Yeltsin gives way to the Chernomyrdin era Hamas 
-rt ~ ~ ~""t..flllr Chinese-American ~ Vf"J:...rJ • Restaurant &ALL Cocktail Lounge \"/ft Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a ·week Lunches starting at .....$4.25 Dinners starting lit ..~$5.95 Voted Best Oriental RcswurantBanquet rooms ~available for up to 200 in Michiana by130 Dixie Way s.:·south Bend Mic:l!iana Now (next to Randall's l!ln)  
L 20% Discount0 on full &rvice Must have c£>tudent ID 234-6767-t. :::J full &rvice 0alonv~~ Hair • 6kin • Nails 1357 N. Ironwood· AVEDA4 Corner of Edison TilE ART AND SCIENCE ()F PljRE RO\VER ANili'LANT E!'.<;ENCES Hair Care • Skin Care • Colour Cl>5mcticR0 Ironwood  
Invitation: Come and talk with young men from Cabrini Green and Henry Horner Housing Projects in Chicago at the Center for Social Concerns 4:30-5:30 p.m. Saturday 1/29 (after the Providence game) These men speak candidly about their experience as gang members  

·erose, Comforta6fe, Convienent• 
•
Finished studios 

•1 
& 2 bedroom apartments 

•
2 bedroom townhomes 

•1/10 
mile from campus · 

•On 
city busline 

•
Laundry facility

•
Outdoor pool & sand volleyball

•24 
hour maintenance 


~tli£r you want to five 6y yourselfor witfi friendS, TU'l{_'TL'E CR...'E/E'l(fias tfie apartmmt for you!! @­
272-8124 • 

•••••• I •••••• I I •••••• e I ••• I I ••••••••• I I I • I I 
............................................. 
JPW 1994 
Earn$$ for Spring Break 
FEB 14-20 
\\IAITERS AND \l'AITRESSES FOOD SERVICE \l'ORI<ERS $5.50 PER HOUR SIGN UPS ARE: 

SAT 1/29 9:30-SPM SUN 1/30 11-SPM 
C.L\TERING E~1PL0\/~1ENT OFFICE 

his long experience and calm temperament, to pursue free­market reforms while softening the impact on ordinary work­ers. 
Opponents say he represents the old Communist "nomen­klatura," the coddled elite that made such a mess of the Soviet. economy. Some reports claim he flunked math in a technical institute entrance exam, and the reformist daily Segodnya said Thursday he is "profound­ly illiterate about economics." 
The most alarmist predictions came this week from former Finance Minister Boris Fyodorov, who said the return of "red managers" would mean the end of free-market reforms, soaring inflation, rapid devalu­ation of the ruble, lower incomes and the return of shortages. He urged Yeltsin to fight the "economic coup." 
It is not at all clear, however, that Yeltsin really "lost" control of the economy. He may have ceded it voluntarily to Chernomyrdin. 
Under Russia's new constitu­tion, Yeltsin appears to be mov­ing toward a French-style pres­idency. maintaining control over foreign affairs and overall domestic policy but leaving the day-to-day business of govern­ment to the prime minister. 
One advantage is that if the economy does not improve be­fore Russia's next presidential election in 1996, Chernomyrdin -not Yeltsin -may be held responsible by the voters. 
Yeltsin's press secretary, Vyacheslav Kostikov, said Thursday the president would "carefully follow" the new Cabinet's actions and intervene if necessary. 
"Relying on his constitutional powers ... he intends to stand firm in the defense of reforms, to secure the stability and con­tinuity of the democratic course," Kostikov said. 
Yeltsin "believes there is no reason now for pessimistic analysis. The newly formed government has barely begun to work," Kostikov said. 
Yeltsin still has given no pub­lic explanation for the Cabinet shake-up. 
Analysts in Russia and abroad, however, have sug­gested at least three scenarios: 

-Yeltsin is taking a pro­foundly democratic step, back­ing away from his previous policies in response to the will · of the voters in last month's elections. 
prepares for autonomy 
BY KARIN LAUB 
Associated Press 
GAZACITY 
Muslim fundamentalist group Hamas, a leading opponent to the Israel-PLO accord, now may want to share the fruits of leadership when the Palestini­ans begin running their own territory. 
Such a shift could ease the threat of civil war for PLO chief Vasser Arafat when he estab­lishes Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank region of Jericho. 
Prominent in the pragmatist camp, which now appears to hold sway in Hamas, are for­mer deportees who recently returned from a year of exile in Lebanon. 
Dr. Omar Ferwana, 38, a leading Hamas ideologue, said his group would support any result of the Israel-PLO negotiations that improved Palestinians' lives. 
"Whatever the (PLO) negotia­tors achieve, we will support it," said the British-educated physician. 
"If we have a chance to see Israeli soldiers leave, that is a win. If we see a better econ­omy, a better education. that is a win," said Ferwana, speaking in his clinic. 
Some of Ferwana's pragma­tism was born in Marj al-Za­hour, the southern bebanon tent camp where he and more than 400 other Islamic activists were stranded after being de­ported by Israel in December 1992. 
"In Marj al-Zahour ... we de­cided that Palestinian unity is a priority, and that there should­n't be any fighting," said Fer­wana. 
Ferwana's views are a far cry from Hamas' initial denuncia­tion of the Israel-PLO talks as a sellout and reflect a growing pragmatism as autonomy is ap­proaching. 
Hamas intellectuals remain adamant that they will not rec­ognize a Jewish state. But they can accept a Palestinian state alongside Israel as a compro­mise until all of Palestine is re­claimed. 
The political avenue for Hamas is elections. It claims the support of about one-third of Gaza's 780,000 residents and believes it could win con­trol of many city halls as well as a share of the seats on a self-governing council that runs Gaza and Jericho. 
If elections were held today, Hamas would be the second­largest faction in Gaza, winning 
17.3 percent of the vote, com­pared with 36.1 percent for Arafat's mainstream Fatah group, according to a survey released this week by the Cen­ter for Palestine Research and Studies in the West Bank city of Nablus. The survey of 518 Palestinians in the Gaza Strip did not give a margin of error. 
Sheik Ahmed Yassin, the spir­itual leader of Hamas who has been held in an Israeli jail since May 1989, has sent out messages through visitors that he supports a power-sharing arrangement with the PLO and elections. 
"There is a growing realism in Hamas,'' said Mamdouh al­Aker, a Palestinian peace nego­tiator and Fatah member. 
Some PLO leaders say Hamas has no choice but to partici­pate. 

By ALAN COOPERMAN 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Some Russians believe their nation's fate now depends on Viktor Chernomyrdin, the gruff prime minister who appears to have wrested control of the economy from Boris Yeltsin's reformers. 
So many questions now swirl around Chernomyrdin -who is he, what are his intentions, and can he succeed -that the once dominant figure of Yeltsin has faded into the background. 
"Unfortunately today, the center of power in effect has moved from the president to the prime minist~r," Sergei Yushenkov, a member of the pro-reform Russia's Choice fac­tion in parliament, said Thursday. 
Yeltsin "has completely lost 
control over the urgent issues of running the country," he added. 
Most of the young economists who had conducted two years of painful market-oriented re­forms were dropped from Yeltsin's Cabinet this month, af­ter their unexpectedly poor showing in parliamentary elec­tions. 
Chernomyrdin, 55, ran the Soviet Union's huge natural gas industry and Russia's entire energy sector before becoming prime minister at the end of 1992. In tough negotiations with Yeltsin two weeks ago, he pushed for -and got -a new Cabinet dominated by veteran Soviet-era managers who share his deep ties to state-run monopoly industries. 
Chernomyrdin's supporters call him a pragmatist and cen­trist who is ideally suited, by 
ce 
~[p 


BUSINESS 
page 10 Friday, January 28, 1994 
Mishawaka Brewing Company taps into new market 
By KELLY ROMER 
Business Writer 
Until approximately a year ago, the South Bend/ Mishawaka area did not even realize what it was missing. But Tom Schmidt and John Foster knew exactly what it needed. 
In 1993, they established the Mishawaka Brewing Company and from that time on, their business has grown steadily due to the virtually untapped nature of the microbrewery market. 
Their customer bast:, at first limited to the Mishawaka area, has extended to surrounding cities and towns. Schmidt describes their customers as around 30 to 40 years of age with a somewhat professional background. He added that approximately 10% of their cus­tomers are students, and this number is growing. 
Although the majority of its business occurs in its home store, 2% of the microbrewery's sales are in bottles distributed to package stores both local and as far away as Michigan City. In the future, Mishawaka Brewing Company plans to ex­pand its distribution to Chicago and Indianapolis. At present, the microbrewery has· the capacity to bottle up to 12,000 cases per year. The company can legally distribute its beer in 
LOCAL BUSINESS PROFILE 
• 
10% of business ND·/SMC·related 

• 
2% of sales in bottles 

• 
80% of sales cash, 20% credit 


MARKETING STRATEGIES: 
• 
membership in "Anacreontic Society" 

• 
flyers 


• 
gift certificates ("brewery bucks") 


MANAGEMENT STYLE: 
"Very relaxed, very personable so the serv1ce is always fresh." 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
The Mishawaka Brewing Co. is starting a microbrewery tradition in the South Bend area. 
Indiana, but must sell to Illinois distributors for Chicago sales. 
Mishawaka Brewing Com­pany also offers a plethora of foods from English and Irish dishes to pasta. Schmidt feels that their menu complements their beer sales."We try to Americanize the more exotic items in order give them their own identities," said Schmidt. 
Although the company's refreshing brews seem to sell themselves, Schmidt has mar­keted through radio and news­paper media. Of all of these, he finds what he calls "guerilla marketing" with flyers dis­tributed by people on foot to be most effective. "We have. also considered using television despite its expensive price, but we feel that if something is not professional, it is not worth doing," explained Schmidt. 

Sales promotions are also and effective means of boosting sales for the microbrewery. These include the "Party Pig" which is a 2.5 gallon plastic pig that dispenses beer through its snout. "Party Pig" sales have been phenomenal since its in­troduction last November. 
The brewery also recently added a wheat brew that is their number one selling "flag­ship beer" to date. The wheat brew, which was born as a sea­sonal promotion, has out­performed all of the company's projections. 
Customers can also receive a year-long membership to the "Anacreontic Society." This consists of a T -shirt and an ex­clusive glass mug which is en­graved with the member's number. It is kept at the brew­ing company for the member to use whenever there and allows the purchase of a 16 oz. drink for the price of 12 oz drink. 
In the future, we can all look forward to more "Party Pigs" and a refreshing new spring brew which will be produced only if the "brewhog" sees his shadow upon exit of his kettle on Feb. 2. 
As Mishawaka Brewing Company enters its fourth year, it continues to fill a unique role as northern Indiana's only brewpub, providing a relaxed and enjoy&ble environment for experiencing its distinctive beer. 

Orders to factories on the rise 
ByJAMES RUBIN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In the latest sign of a strengthening economy, factory orders for durable goods rose for a fifth straight month in December. The increase helped make last year the biggest gainer since 1988, despite the lowest level of defense spend­ing in more than a decade. 
Economists said the surge reported Thursday -led by business investment in com­puters and other equipment ­pointed to expansion this year despite a likely slowdown in consumer spending in the first half of 1994. 
"Despite slow growth in the economy as a whole,' equip­ment investment has continued to show remarkable buoy­ancy," said George Richards, economist for the National As­sociation of Manufacturers. 
"The capital goods boom con­tinues," said Commerce Secretary Ron Brown. 
But Sung Won Sohn, an econ­omist with Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis, interjected a note of caution. 
"The important question is how long can this spending 

spree continue in view of the low savings rate," he said. "Will businesses find they're stuck with unwanted inven­tory?" 
Durable goods orders are a key barometer of manufactur­ing industry plans. Increased orders often lead to more pro­duction and jobs. 
In ·other economic news, the government said the number of Americans applying for initial unemployment benefits declined by 56,000 last week, due in part to the effects o frigid weather, .a federal hol­iday and the California earth­quake. 

The Labor Department said a seasonally adjusted 309,000 people sought benefits for the first time in the week ended Jan. 22, down from a revised 365,000 the previous week. 
SEC: financial markets ·still in need of fine tuning 
ByJOHN DOYLE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Financial markets are gen­erally healthy but should im­prove how they treat investors and deal with competition. ac­cording to a long-awaited re­port by federal regulators of the stock markets. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission's Market 2000 study, in the works since 1992, stressed the need to ensure the best deal for investors at the best price -through competi­tion among the exchanges and other market venues. 
"The driving force is that we think the interest of customers should always come first and that markets should be de­signed to make sure that cus­tomers get the best price for their securities and the design of the markets should work to their advantage, not to their disadvantage," said Brandon Becker, head of the SEC's Di­vision of Market Regulation, which conducted the study. 
Within that context, Becker told reporters at a briefing, competition is a very valuable tool "so long as it's fair compe­tition to invigorate change and provide investors with a range of choices." 
To meet their doubled-edged goal of protecting investors while making the markets more efficient -and thus more com­petitive -the Market 2000 study recommended: 
• 
Making more trading data available to the public, includ­ing a shift from using fractions to decimals in stock quotations; 

• 
Making it easier for New York Stock Exchange member firms to trade NYSE-listed stocks after regular trading hours; 

• 
Simplifying procedures for companies to remove their stock from listing on the NYSE; 

• 
Requiring better record­keeping and disclosure by the non-traditional trading sys­tems, known as off-exchange or automated trading systems, without imposing the same reg­ulations that monitor tradi­tional brokers. 


Overall, however, "the study makes clear that our markets are not in crisis· today," the four SEC commissioners noted in their introduction to the 500­page report. 

MARKET ROUNDUP . 

..r  
r  
.A_/"\ IJ  
1\..- vv  
~  l\,..7  
~  

3925 3865 3805 3745 3685 3625 3565 10/1/93 11/1/93 12/1/93 1/1/94 2/1/94 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
CHICAGO 

Ameritech unveiled plans on Thursday for .a program that will allow consumers to see videos on demand and conduct business transactions from their home. 
The company, which provides local telephone service in Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio, said it will spend $4.4 billion to upgrade its facilities in order to provide the new services. 
DETROIT 

Each of the U.S. Big Three automakers shipped more ve· hicles overseas in 1993 than a year earlier, although they said Japan remained tough to crack with a meaningful number of exports. 
General Motors Corp., the world's largest automaker. remained the biggest overall exporter of cars and trucks from North America, but it was pushed by Chrysler Corp. 
WASHINGTON 
The national information su­perhighway is getting a high­gear start as Congress and the administration press a pair of bills to increase competition in cable television and telephone service. 
The bills "will inaugurate a golden era of innovation and growth for what may be the most important sector of our economy in the next century." said FCC Chairman Hundt . 

t ................. ,. ' ..........,..... !,... -~ J ·••. -•' ,a~ I ....... t .. #.r ,:.: ·:· ., 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, January 28, 1994 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar; Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 

News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne He roman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ............•....... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya johnson Systems Manager .•.....••...•................. Patrick Banh Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letrers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
SMC elections evoke reflection 

Dear Editor: 
In light of the recent Student Body Elections on Saint Mary's campus, we would like to con­gratulate and wish luck to the new officers in the upcoming school year. As students of Saint Mary's, we would like to express our views on the issues and concerns that we believe need to be addressed. We hope that you research these pro­grams and if possible imple­ment them into your agenda for the upcoming school year. 
As juniors, our primary con­cern is the renovating and upgrading of the Career and Counseling Center. Saint Mary's needs to work on making Saint Mary's students more attractive to companies. This can be accomplished by upgrading the services provided to students and fostering studenVcouncilor relations. 
The administration needs to work with students through fos­tering skills in resume writing, interviewing, and presentation. Saint Mary's students should not have to rely on Notre Dame for interviews with major com­panies. Saint Mary's also needs to search out companies that are looking for students in all majors and all positions. This will be accomplished by mar­keting Saint Mary's to larger corporations, including those companies interviewing at Notre Dame. 
As admissions at Saint Mary's fail to climb, serious thought needs to be given as to how to increase enrollment. Saint Mary's needs to be involved in networking with high schools around the country. 
We would like to see a hotline installed primarily for under­classmen who are homesick, having trouble in school, and/or having difficulty adjusting to campus life in addition the resi­dent .advisors currently filling this role. 
In the past, Saint Mary's has relied upon Notre Dame as the primary source of social inter­action. We would like to see Notre Dame as one among many sources. This may be accomplished by informing sur­rounding institutions of upcom­ing events in the Saint Mary's community. We believe that these institutions will recipro­cate, thus opening the doors to greater social interaction. 
Eliminating the stereotypes between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame cannot begin in an official position, but must begin with the individuals in each of the communities. We must remember that no matter where we are, as individuals we are representatives for the entire community. 
We would like to see a Student Activities Center researched during the upcom­ing year. This center would include activities such as an ice rink, permanent volleyball courts, etc. We think that this will give Saint Mary's students the opportunity to involve themselves in activities previ­ously offered only by Notre Dame. 
We recognize that this project is costly, and that the ultimate decision for the use of the land must be approved by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. This must not deter us from research, because if approved, fund-rais­ers and alumnae donations will help decrease the cost of the project. 

While social interaction is important to the Saint Mary's community, there are deeper concerns in issues that are commonly overlooked. Group therapy programs such as those for sexual offense and rape vic­tims, alcoholics anonymous, and drug abuse need to be cre­ated and given recognition for their efforts. 
We recognize that many of these programs are in exis­tence, however they are unknown to many in the -com­munity. We suggest that signs should be posted in each hall, and in areas of public use list­ing the names and phone num­bers of the organizations. Brochures and pamphlets should be distributed to each student at the beginning of the school year, listing programs and who should be contacted for details on where and when the groups meet. 
These are a few of the issues that we, as students of Saint Mary's would like to see researched. We look forward to the 1994-95 academic school year and we hope to see posi­tive changes that will affect the community for years to come. 
HEATHER ROBINSON JULIE STEVENS LISA BAUMANN MICHELLE TUTS REBECCA ROBINSON 
1990: /MIIT&WAT£3f?.. 
FAII/3 70 FIL.& 7JIX R5TURN9 TH/9 AND 5U/3GfiQ{)fflT YEAR?... 
... YETALATER AUil!T/?EMAt.? A $69,c:XVUJ5SFOR 7H& CLJNTDNSl IN 1W2, 7He RJG mi-SJU5TIC8 
OFA 5lJSPliC7731? CH&CI<-I<!TIN6 SGICM& 7lJ e&N&FIT/I/HIWA7/?f.... 

Chauvinism a possible cause in Porn Pon Squad denial? 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to begin by con­gratulating the football team on their victory in the Cotton Bowl. Although the number of students attending seemed to be lower than other years, stu­dents were still very support­ive of the Fighting Irish. One particular group of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­dents, the Notre Dame Porn Pon Squad, wanted to attend but were denied permission by Father Beauchamp. 
As one of the captains of the Porn Pon Squad, I have had many opportunities to witness and observe the Notre Dame family. Instead of feeling like part of a "family," our squad has been made to feel like sec­ond-class citizens. 
Rudy spoke at the Cotton Bowl Pep Rally this year claim­ing that Notre Dame was a place where dreams could be fulfilled. Instead of dreams coming true, however, our squad has experienced the hurt and disappointment that results when dreams are crushed by the Notre Dame Administra-tion. 
Last year, the Porn Pon Squad was able to attend the Cotton Bowl for the first time. Due to our own efforts with a raffle ticket drive plus help from host families, our squad was able to rmance our entire trip. In addition to daily per­formances at the Alumni Hospitality Center and other bowl activities, the Porn Pon Squad visited a local nursing home and the Children's Medical Center. 

We allowed others to be per­sonally touched by the spirit of Notre Dame. How did the school respond to our good­will? 
Currently, we have not per­formed at any Men's Basketball games. The Director of Sports Marketing, Jim Fraleigh, has invited out­side sources of entertainment for halftime. Additionally, the office of Patty O'Hara decided four days before the Florida State game to cancel our per­formance of a 2.5 minute rou­tine with the band during half­time even though we had per­formed there in the past. 
Despite numerous hours of preparation, one of our dreams had been taken away without a reasonable explana­tion. Finally, the school denied us permission to attend this year's Cotton Bowl despite invitations from the Dallas Alumni Club and sufficient funds created by our own fundraising. 
The Porn Pon Squad has done nothing to embarrass the school, yet has been continual­ly undermined by the adminis­tration. Frustrated with the inconsistent explanations offered by the Notre Dame administration, I find myself pondering this question: Would the Porn Pon Squad be treated this poorly if we were not an all female organization? NATALIE BROHL Senior LeMans Hall 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'' A man without a woman is like .1"\.a neck without a pain." 
-Graffito, 1984, Los Angeles 

--~--------·---~­
'I 


friday 
events 
"Dazed and Confused," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., $2. "The Good Son," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:30 p.m.,$2. The Odd Couple, by Neil Simon, Cavanaugh Hall Players, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m., free admission. Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's, 7p.m. DJO-GBE, a participation dance performance, 7 p.m., LaFortune Ballroom, ID required for admission. 

Bughaus, Alumni-Senior Club, 10 p.m. Chideco Zydeco, The Madison Oyster Bar, 10 p.m. The Killing Floor, Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. 
saturday 
events 
"Dazed and Confused," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., $2. "The Good Son," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:30 p.m.,$2. The Odd Couple, by Neil Simon, Cavanaugh Hall Players, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m., free admission. Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's, 7p.m. Mr. Stanford Contest, featuring Bovine Solution, Stepan Center, 8 p.m., $3. ND Swimming vs. St. Bonaventure, (W) at 11 a.m., and 
(M) at 2 p.m., Rolfs Aquatic Center. ND Women's Tennis vs. Miami of Ohio, 9 a.m. at Eck 
music 
The Killing Floor, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. Red Beans and Rice, blues band, Madison Oyster Bar, 10p.m. 
sunday 
events 
Misa en Espanol, Badin Hall Chapel, 11:30 a.m., Padre Dan Groody. All are welcome. 
movies 
University Park East 
Intersection 7:35, 9:55 Philadelphia 7, 9:35 Grumpy Old Men 7:30, 9:40 Shortcuts 7:45 Shadowlands 7:15, 9:30 The Piano 7, 9:20 
University Park West 
Iron Will 7:10 and 9:30 Blink 7:20, 9:50 Tombstone 7, 9:40 

Friday, January 28, 1994 


e 
\ 
i3 
I 

1e fields. It says "I work ... and I do it casually." oathe -The cardigan is too casual for mid-level 1itions, even if they are in less conservative ds. lumber 2: ike -The suit is well liked, especially among lservative careers. Trendy suits, with a sarong­k or a double-breasted jacket for example, say n professional, without the stuffy." oathe -The navys and the greys must go. Color n and is calling every women's name. Grab a e burgundy or forest green suit..heck, go for the . pink one as well. lumber 3: THE WINNER ike -The coatdress is classy and sheik. The 1ble-breasted aspect won many kudos. It's sur­singly conservative, yet somewhat SYR-ish. It's 
•s "practical but not prudish." .oathe -Many claim for it to be uncomfortable 
hands on work and constant mobility. lumber 4: jke -The long-skirt is very different without ng disrespectful. It has a risky, confident look to It says, "I do my work, but I live on the edge." .oathe -The layered look isn't always appropri­
for the workplace. If it is used, brighter colors mid be the main adjustment. 
•
ecut1ve woman 
Executive Woman," according to a recent :e companies. Executive women's salaries have .e executives only make two-thirds of what their 
e percent serve on their firm's board of direc­und, decision-making abilities and concerns for 1e home front, the rake 66 percent of the family ten~till perform the major share of household 
lliling, earning 72 cents for every dollar men 
The Observer • ETC. 

EXECUTIVE SUITES 
Percent of women In top-level corporate positions 
PresidenVCEO/COO  l!ffill 6%1.4%  !!!! 1982  
CFO/ControllerfTreasurer  1.4l~2%  .1992  
Executive Vice President  it 4%.8.7%  
Senior Vice President  '  ;;;;, 13% 

-23.0% 
MONETARY REWARDS 
Age when $1 00,000 base salary was attained. 
?Wt7%
Less than 35 years -_6%
11 
36-40 

~ 1989 male 41-45 "";:'"rr2~~~ 
.1992 5
46-50 •r.f!l1· %female 51-55 r::~~ .O% 
BASIC TRAINING 
Traits that enhance women's chances for advancement Ability to make decisions 71.8°/o Concern for financial results 66.7% Capacity for hard work 56.0°o Desire for responsibility Integrity 48.5% Ambition 35.1% 

MOlT£ 11.0%
Lack of confidence 

.7.3% wW';;;8.8%
Convincing others of ability 

.5.5% 
Personal vs. professional :c\•6.3% trade-offs .5.2% HiP 4.1%
Limited education • 3.9% 
~ffi 1982 >35%
Youth or age 13:4% 
.1992 

Lack of manager~~~~~:~~fe llfg~r/o 

page 13 

Cavanaugh Hall Players offer comedy as a farewell performance 
By BEVIN KOVALIK Assistant Accent Editor 
N
eil Simon's play The Odd Couple will offer comedy at a complimentary price, as the Cavanaugh Hall Players' very last performance before Cavanaugh transforms into a women's dorm. 
One of Simon's greatest plays, The Odd Couple debuted last night at Washington Hall, and will show Friday and Saturday at 8:10p.m. 
The play centers around the lives of two middle aged, divorced men who become roommates in the craziness of New York City apartment. 
The Odd Couple becomes the two men as they both try to put their lives back together and battle the surprises of life fighting and laughing along the way, until soon developing a wonderful friendship. 
"This is a comical play that people at Notre Dame can relate to because everyone has roommate problems at one time or anoth­er," said junior co-director Jen Andre. 
Starring in this hilarious and heartwarming performance, Cavanaugh Hall juniors St~phen Susco and Mark Poisella play the roles of Oscar Madison and Felix Ungar as the two jesting and amusing roommates who discover what kind of people they really are. 
"I like this particular play because of the way it balances disas­ter and perfection at any given moment," added Poisella, who plays Felix. 
The audience can surely expect to be entertained. 
According to sophomore Cort Peters, a member of the rowdy poker playing posse, one especially funny scene involves a poten­tially serious disaster when Felix attempts to kill himself and the six infamous poker players chase him around, hoping to stop him. 
After a few minutes the chase leads up to an incredibly crashing finish in an unexpected place. Of course if you have not already seen the play's debut last night you will have to venture out this weekend to see what happens. 
At times during the performance the audience may even feel like part of the cast as they dodge unidentified flying objects soaring from the stage. 
"If you sit in the first two rows in the audience it will be an ex­perience similar to the show at Sea World," warns Susco who plays Oscar. 
The cast has been rehearsing since October and the two di­rectors Andre and Tony Leonardo have high hopes for the out­come of their hard work. 
"We have an excellent cast, and anyone who comes to see our performance will have a great time," Andre said. 

_... 
Photo by Thomas Zipprich Mark Poisella (left as Felix Ungar) and Stephen Susco (right as Oscar Madison) rehearse their lines for The Odd Couple, the last comedy which the Cavanaugh Hall Players will perform. 



-~ ~ 
' 

page 14 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, January 28, 1994 
ND is a 'moveable feast,' according to Hemingway 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" ""Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
.. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
When Father O'Hara-later to become Cardinal O'Hara, whose dust is now boxed in marble in a side chapel of the Basilica-was president of Notre Dame, he would go on walkabouts of the Library, tak­ing books whose authors he considered bums off the shelf. Ernest Hemingway impressed O'Hara as a bum: reading his novels shouldn't be a part of a Notre Dame education, 
Before writing this piece, I prayed for the eternal rest of O'Hara's soul. I do not wish to vex the late Cardinal's ghost when I encourage students to put Hemingway's_A Farewell to Arms on the summer reading list. It's book worth reading and re-re-reading. And it's a book parents should share with their 
1, kids. 
' 
' 
I Lieutenant Frederic Henry I does not think that the universe I is a user-happy place.I Doubtlessly a rattling of dry bones can now be heard on the Cardinal's side of church, as those venerable remains of him 
r 
try to turn over in their mau­

I 
soleum. How can the senior

I 
priest in campus ministry can­

I 
I onize a novel of illicit love, in 
I which a hero of the Great War, Lieutenant Frederic Henry, and the nurse, Catherine Barkley,
I whom he loves, live together
I 
and have a baby without bene­

I 
fit of clergy? 

I 
Ah, but the love story be­

I 
comes especially tender at this

I 
point, since Catherine dies after 

I 
having the child. A Farewell to

I 
I 
Arms is full of what Virgil ~ called the tears of things and mortality that touches the 
heart. It's the indifference of the universe, as Hemingway communicates it that the read-
T 0 

Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers lo a Bonefy 9od 

er should stay aware of. 

I woke up this morning with the realization that I'd been dreaming of a novel about the school of hard knocks that nobody gets out of alive. I had to smoke an entire cigarette before I realized I'd been dreaming of A Farewell to Arms As a member of Campus Ministry, I tend to take the Catcher in the Rye, saving chil­dren from falling over the edge of the cliff, as my operating metaphor. 
If I were the Captain, 0 my Captain, of the Dead Poets' Society, I'd advise the members to tell Henry David Thoreau­wanting to live deep, and suck out all the marrow of life-to move over, and make room for Hemingway. 
As an inspector of snow­storms, Henry David had no equals, but he'd have been hap­pier if he'd caught up with the mass of men leading lives of quiet desperation. He's an ex­ample of the grownup who can't let go of the memories he has of the Lost Childhood. Thoreau makes me mindful of the lost child in all of us smart­ing for the innocence that was forfeited with that early fall from grace. Life will always been a struggle with darkness. In the age of AIDS, it is no longer enough to arm the chil­dren of light with the chapter from Saint-Exupery's The Little 
TTE 
N H 
prince, explaining the rituals used in taming a fox. 
The members of the Dead Poets' society might shrink from putting lead in their pen­cils that would land them on minefields-if they hung out much with Frederic Henry, de­serting the Italian army:-1 had seen nothing sacred, and the things that were glorious had no glory, and the sacrifices were like the stockyards at Chicago if nothing was done with the meat except bury it...Abstract words such as glory, honor, courage, or were hallow were obscene." 
English soldier-poet Wilfred Owen, killed in action a week before the Armistice, con­demned the old 'Litold "with such high zest/To children ar­dent for some desperate glory/ The old Lie: Dulce et decorum est/Pro patria mori.-It is sweet and decorous to die for one's country." 
Robert Frost left us a poem that says: "And were an epitaph to be my story/I'd have a short one ready for my own./1 would have written of me on my stone:/1 had a lover's quarrel with the world." 
Frost was an American origi­nal, and a bit of a humbug; and so was Hemingway; b~t he would never try to charm us into believing that his quarrel with the world was merely a lover's quarrel: "The world breaks everyone down and af­terward many are strong in the broken places. But those that/not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gen­tle and the very brave impar­tially. If you are none of these you can be sure that it will kill you too, but there will be no special hurry." 
This code of Hemingway's should be useful as a warning in the new dark ages. What we do for love can have a price tag, but doing nothing can have a price tag too. It doesn't take any longer to die for loye than it does to die from boredom. Maybe when you're dying for love, you're not in so much of a hurry to get it over. 
Sooner or later, the world breaks everyone. The lross on which Jesus died is proof of that. But the Cross is about Love that is stronger than Death, for the Hemingway code doesn't tell all of the story. You need the Creed, if you want to hear the rest of the story 
Hemingway made heroes of bullfighters who show courage and grace under pressure, by which he meant "guts." He made a hero of Christ, showing grace under pressure on Good Friday. Santiago, the old man of the sea,· as a hero of grace un­der pressure, is Hemingway's Christ, as Hemingway shows by his explicit use of Christian im­agery in describing Santiago. We would have known who he was, even if he hadn't been tarted up with religious symbol­ism. 
" I must be worthy of the great DiMaggio who does all things perfectly even with the pain of the bone spur in his heel." Santiago is beautiful in his love of the great fish who battles Santiago, because it is a marlin's nature to struggle with the fisherman who has hooked him. Santiago loves the boy who sometimes goes in the baot with him. He teaches the boy courage, and the arts of the fisherman, and the love he needs to survive on in a hostile universe. 
Hemingway could write truth­fully and beautifully, but plainly he wasn't the Cardinal's cup of tea. Neither, I suppose, was the Jesuit poet Hopkins, who can be tough reading. He's the opposite of Hemingway, because Hopkins celebrates the sacramentality of the universe, which means that the very humble things can be of service in revealing God. In a century where the abstract­glory words have become ob­scene, we can almost count the candles going out all over the place, leaving us with a distrust of sacramentality. Often, in places where we expected to find grace, we have found nada, which cancels grace. 
Christ, giving as grace under pressure, in His turn cancels the nada The spiritual warfare goes on all around us, and Hemingway can be a consola­tion to read. He wrote: "If you are lucky enough to have lived in Paris as a young man, then wherever you go for the rest of your life, it stays with you, for Paris is a moveable feast." 
Coming to Notre Dame when you're young, it stays with you too, for Notre Dame is a move­able feast. John O'hara, CSC, told me ND is a moveable feast before Ernest Hemingway did. 


Friday, January 28, 1994 The Observer • Super Bowl page 15 
Cowboys trying to deal with injuries 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA 

Message to Jimmy Johnson from the Buffalo Bills: Getting to the Super Bowl isn't sup­posed to be easy. 
Johnson has spent the latter part of the season whining about the problems his Dallas Cowboys have faced in their attempt to win a second straight NFL title. 
He has cited everything from Emmitt Smith's holdout to an injury list that included the likes of Smith, Troy Aikman and Charles Haley. 
But if injuries are part of the game, why should Johnson's Cowboys be immune? 
"It's funny, but in football, we all live in our own little worlds," Frank Reich, Buffalo's backup quarterback, said Thursday. "We all think our own problems are the only problems in the world. It's just a na.tural tendency." 
Added Walt Corey, the Bills' defensive coordinator: "Injuries? We all live with that all the time. 
"When we were playing in their place the second week of the season, at the end of the game we were trying to stop them in the defensive line with a bunch of backups and a rook­ie." 
A soft rain fell Thursday, although the elements won't be a factor Sunday, with the game played in the Georgia Dome. But the rain did force the Bills to practice in the Dome instead of at Georgia Tech. They worked for two hours in pads, the first time this week they have used them. 
The Cowboys worked outside at the Atlanta Falcons' complex in Suwanee but Johnson short­ened practice by 10 minutes because of the weather. Haley, the defensive end with a back problem, didn't practice but Johnson said he will play Sunday. 
Johnson has kept an even higher profile than usual, espe­cially with his longstanding tales of Dallas misfortune. 

"I've never, in all my years of coaching, had as much adversi­ty as what we've had to face this year," he said. 
Maybe because in all his years of coaching, Johnson never won a Super Bowl before last year. 
So he doesn't know that it's an unwritten rule in the NFL that the locusts follow a year of plenty and that losing backup tight ends and special teams players isn't the end of the world. 
But to the Cowboys, having to wait until overtime of the final regular-season game to clinch the NFC East apparently quali­fies as adversity. 
Dallas' problems started before the season, when Aikman underwent back surgery. Then Smith and owner Jerry Jones became entangled in a contract dispute and the running back held out. 
Backup tight end Alfredo Roberts was lost with a broken foot, along with backup corner­back Clayton Holmes, one of the better special teams players. 
Atlanta happy to entertain Super fans, Super spenders 
By MARC RICE 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Super Bowl visitors arriving at Atlanta's airport this week are being met by a greeter dressed as a big peach who repeats, "Hi y'all, welcome to Atlanta!" 
A few steps away are dozens of smiling limousine service agents, eager to provide a comfortable ride downtown for a cool $50. 
At Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport, decorat­ed with thousands of Super Bowl balloons and welcome banners, the message is clear and immediate: Y'all have fun. And spend money. 
Atlanta is promoting its devotion to Southern· hospital­ity and commerce full tilt this week as it hosts its first Super Bowl, between the Dallas Cowboys and the Buffalo Bills. 
Many of the estimated 76,500 guests seem willing to comply. 
"I couldn't care less about Dallas and Buffalo," said Robert Slayton, a data communications salesman who arrived Thursday from Andover, Mass. ''I'm rooting for me. I've padded my pock­ets with plenty of spending money for bars and restau­rants." 
Slayton, who got Super Bowl ticket!'! through a friend whose father worked for the NFL, had visited Atlanta before and was familiar with some of its nightspots. 
"They've got nice hotels, malls and restaurants. That's where I'll be," he said. 
That's music to the ears of Atlanta leaders, who hope to reap big bucks and a return Super Bowl engagement if this year's bash lives up to expectations. :> 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day &om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard 233-2342/10-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Grey metal double cross ear­ring between 2nd floor PW and North Dining Hall on 1/14. Call Bridget at 4-2965 if you found it. 
LOST: EYEGLASSES IN TAN CASE. CALL AMY X4966 
LOST-TIMEX WATCH WITH INDIGLO. It has a black leather band. I lost it on Sat., Jan. 22, either at North Dining Hall, Lafortune, or on the way from NOH to Lafortune. If you have any info or have found it, please call Rich Glatz at 4-1143. Thanks. 
Lost: Set of keys on a red scuba fin keychain. North County Scuba written on keychain. If found please call Greg at4-1620. 
LOST: my two car keys. They are bound to a medal with St Christopher on one side and Notre Dame de Paris written on the other side. If you have any info, please call Huy @ 273-5859. Thanks! 
$$$$REWARD$$$$ 
for the return of my long dark 
green coat (Harry Levine Petite) 
that disappeared from Club 23 
last Friday. Please help; I'm very 
cold. 
Call Kate x-1564 
No ?'s asked! 
LOST: gold chain & cross w/ G in a heart at center, on path to Debartalo between Niewland & Hayes-Healy. REWARD. x1829 
Found: gold chain and cross outside of LaFortune. Call x4833 to claim 
WANTED 
••••sPRING BREAK '94•••• Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. 
Need revue tickets bad!I Call Tom x-1747 
Need ride to Ann Arbor 
this weekend. 
Will pay gas 
call Erin X2350 CRUISE SHIPS HIRING • Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
$700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. deckhands. Alaska summer fish­eries now hiring. Employment Alaska 1-206-323-2672 
SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ in salary & benefits. Ski!Snowboard instructors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet staff + other positions (includ­ing summer). Over 15,000 open­ings. For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V5584 
I need GARTH BROOKS tixl!ll 
PLEASE call4-1477 
Men and Women needed for free haircuts. Call Cosima's 2n-1875 
ROOMMATE WANTED Handicapped 28-year-old male looking for 2-3 people to share house 5-10 mins. from campus. Will provide FREE RENT in exchange for helping me one hour per day and assisting in caring for house, lawn and driveway. Begins immed. Prefer grad student and require per­son who will be in South Bend year­round. If interested call Adam 289­9342. 
FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225. MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306 
SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6 BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3 
BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 
FURNISHED 8 AND 4 BEDROOM 
HOUSES 1 MILE NORTH OF ND 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2n3o97 
Roommate to share 3 bedrm home. $250 mo. 5-min drive. Call 232­7175 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595 
Looking for student tenants near ND-clean, furnished apts. 755 South Bend Ave 1 bdrm-240, effe­ciency-215; 607 E. Corby-2 bdrm $330, 1 bdrm $260; 519 E. Corby-2 bdrm $280+heat; drive by, call for appointment, deposit, references 1­800-582-9320 
I NEED ROOMMATES! 
Summer + 94-95 year 
150/mo furn+util pd-MUST SEE! 
Hickory Village-5 min to campus 
273-8369 FREE MAID SERVICE '94-95 Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B.B. & sand V-ball courts. 234-3831 or 273..()482 

FOR SALE 
Tickets 

I need 4 tix. 4 CARROT TOP X1646 -Toby 
Will pay $$BIG BUCKS$$ for Garth Brooks Tickets. Call Sarah at #3818. 
Seniorsl!lll!llllllllllll! Did you buy an extra ticket to Phantom? Need to get rid of it? Want to get rid of it$ 
Call Jonny "donnie" Trump 282-2206 and leave message. 
Spring Break Airline Ticket for Sale: From South Bend to Key West, Florida leaving Thursday, March 3 and returning on Friday, March 11. Best offer. Call Staph at 273-6548. 
PERSONAL 
JPW wknd confrmd reservation 
@ Jamison Inn avail. for trade for cnfrmd hotel res. Stanford wknd, Sep29-0ct1 call Paul 1-800-538­9363-(xt)5128 
**********\***************** YOU MAY HAVE MASTERED THE MEDALLION HUNT -BUT WINNING BIG AT KNOTT'S CASINO NIGHT WON'T BE SUCH AN EASY FEAT. 
KNOTT'S CASINO NIGHT 
JAN.28 

Whatlll You didn't get those Keenan Revue tickets?? Your friend that works the entrances is demanding a case of good beer? Or maybe you're just too dam lazy to travel over to SMC to watch a bunch of sexist jokes. Come see the Last Cavanaugh Hall Play. Neil Simon's "The Odd Couple" 
8:10 Th, Fri, Sat Washington Hall Free. 

in search of black jersey-LAZERS 
#33, missing since Club Hockey 
game in Ft. Wayne. Please retum 
to Doc 1-6752, SCH rm 446. 
Thanks!! 

PE section 6B rated their best dates. The results: GRACE 22% STANFORD 22% DILLON 16% FLANNER 16% ZAHM 8% ST ED'S 6% MORRISSEY 6% ALUMNI 3% KEENAN 3% Put your dorm on top! Apply to be a formal date for 1 of 25 DARING PE WOMEN on 2/11. Or make it a sec­tion event! II you're looking for a lit­tle adventure, send name, phone# & creative resume to PARTY WITH 6B, 650 PE by 2/4. 
&&•&•&(·&··&·&·&··&)··&···(0) 
CAN YOU FIGURE OUT THE 
SENIOR BAR ADS???? ITS A 
PUZZLE EACH TIME..... . 

•• & ·&·&ooo&&·& ·& ·& ·& ·&>W&·o 
ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newbom to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. 
ATTENTION SENIORS! I'll trade you the 49ers for a pair of Phantom tickets! Well, maybe not the whole team, but if you need to sell them for whatever reason, don't give them away, sell them to a friend. Call Eddie "Jonnie" Debartolo 282-2206 
The Top 10 Quotes from Cavanaugh's Production of 'The Odd Couple' : 
10) "SINCE SEVENIIII" 

9) "One comment guys...in Act I, don't trash the set." 
8) "Is this a serious question, Kirk?" 
7) "You gonna be long?" "'Bout 12 inches:" 
6) "Mac_....Mac what???" 

5) "Sorry...but the wall just fell on my head." 
4) "If Kip were a girl, he'd be a slut." 
3) "Stop playing with yourself." 

2) "How'd you like a lit cigar right up your ass???" 
...and the number one reason... 
1) "And another thing ...ZAHM SUCKSII 
SOPHOMORESIIII 

Form tum-in for Sophomore Sibs Weekend is Jan. 31 in the Sarin 
Room from 3-6:30 p.m. 

Don't miss out on the opportunity to share Notre Dame with your sib. 
All monies, forms, etc. should be 
tumed in at that time. 
Spring Break Bahamas Party 

Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free 
Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 
1-800-678-6386 Top 10 reasons to go see Cavanaugh's produe1ion of 'The Odd Couple' : 
10) Kirk may get drunk on Sharp's 
9) Random yelling of ad-libbed 'unofficial' lines 
8) Cart will probably get hurt again 
7) People in the front row will get · hit by cards, booze, chips, and pick­le parts...and maybe even Mark. 
6) The pickle may not die 
5) Cart's funky clothes 
4) Tony may be optimistic or Jen may kill him 
3) You may see Quintin Taranto's version of the show 
2) lt'sfreel 
...and the number one reason... 
1) The entire set will probably fall down! 
JIM HOGAN 
what's a chiquita? 
BOSTON Bound Need ride to Boston or nearby for Spring Break. Will pay$ Friendly, fun person, PLS HELP! caiiX2354 
TALENT SHOW TALENT SHOW 
On Fri. March 18, Troop NO is sponsoring a CAMPUS WIDE TAL­ENT SHOW at Washington Hall. 
HELP IS NEEDED. Anybody expe­rienced in stage, lighting, diree1ion, set construction, etc. Please contae1 Emile (x3290) or Ron (273-5971 ). More info about the show soon. 
TALENT SHOW TALENT SHOW 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373 
Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 days on the beach! We have the best trips & pricesllncludes air & hotel & parties from $3991 1-800­
678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama Cityl 8 days oceanview room with kitchen $1191 Walk to best bars! Includes free dis­count card -save $50 on cover chargesl1-800-678-6386 
Florida's New Spring Break 
hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key West! Mora upscale than Panama City/Daytona! Great beaches & 
nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa 
Beachfront Resort $1591 Key West $2491 1-800-678-6386 SOPHOMORESIII 

JPW escape is Feb. 18-20 but tix go on sale starting Jan. 17. Sales are from 3-5 on M & W and from 6-8 on Tu andTh. 
Only $50 gets hotel, trans. and tick· et to Phantom or 2nd City. First-come first-served. Supplies are limited. 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washing1on, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family In area. Let's help each other. Medllegal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 
........BEAT THE RUSH-****** VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching, and if you want to write a classified to that special someone, you can type your ad now. Your message will appear in the special Valentine's Observer on 
Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. 
SARG•SARG.SARG•SARG• Scavenger Hunt/ Word Scramble Clue #3: Which NO grad was the governor of Arizona and a 1988 presidential aspirant??? 
---()() ------­
These 2 letters should bring you closer to unscrambling the secret 
location of the $100.00 
MUSICLAND GIFT CERTIFICATE 
SARG.SARG.SARG•SARG• 
1118 GRACE-Your music suckslll 
Help, I'm dying and I need two tick­ets to Phantom for Feb. 31 It's my last dying wish. Well, ok, so maybe I'm not dying but the tickets sold so fast I'm sick. Please help me out! Thanxl Calllma "Jonnie" Sickman 282-2206 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
••NOTICE•• 
HEALING VISION CANCELLED 
.......................................... 
HOWARD-DILLON 

• This Saturday night from 9pm • 
* to 12am. Plenty of great 
PRIZES 
A NIGHT OF FUN! 

.................................-..... 
hi 

r--"0----------------------~---------~-~--------~-----~ 
page 16 The Observer • The Harding File Friday, January 28, 1994 
-r-Wh--a-t-if?-.----Q_u_e-st-i-on-s-su-r-ro_u_n_d-----, Panel to investigate Harding involvement' 
Associated Press said. 
"This really is a sports orga­She gave no deadline for the nization endeavoring to provide
Harding's confession 

COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. panel to complete its work, but due process to an athlete, but By lARRY SIDDONS era! of the International A five-member panel to inves­the association must submit its still enforcing the rules of the AssociatM Press Olympic Committee. "There are 
tigate allegations of Tonya team for the Feb. 12-27 Winter association in terms of its code still many, many possibilities." 
Harding's involvement in the Games in Lillehammer, Nor­of conduct, the highest stan­
If charges are filed against The IOC, the International attack on Nancy Kerrigan was way, by Sunday. dards of ethical behavior, and appointed Thursday by the U.S. Headed by former U.S. good sportsmanship," Hybl
Tonya Harding in the alleged Skating Union and the Lille­Figure Skating Association. Olympic Committee president
plot to attack figure skating ri­hammer Olympic Organizing said. The action was the first for­William Hybl, the panel will
val Nancy Kerrigan, it would be Committee all said the decision only one step in determining remained in U.S. hands. 
mal step in deciding whether "investigate allegations based It will initially determine if Harding will remain on the U.S. on information contained in "reasonable grounds" exist for
whether the national champion The IOC has ultimate author­stays on the U.S. Olympic team. ity over who competes at the 
team for the Winter Olympics. public records that . . . Harding a disciplinary hearing on Administrative actions, arbi­Games. Carrard said he was 
"We feel extremely confident was involved" in the attack on Harding's USFSA membership, in the hearing panel's ability to Kerrigan Jan. 6. which is required to compete
tration and court appeals all uncertain if the IOC had ever would have to be settled before refused an athlete's entry. 
make a recommendation which The panel starts its investiga­on Olympic and other national recognizes the rights of all of tion Tuesday and hopes to teams.
Harding's place in next month's Harding was chosen for the Winter Games is decided in team after winning the national 
our athletes and upholds the in­make a recommendation to the Harding could then be called what could be an unprece­women's title Jan. 8. Kerrigan 
tegrity of the association," US­USFSA within 10 days to two before the panel, which would dented action. also was selected for the team, 
FSA president Claire Ferguson weeks, Hybl said. consider her dismissal. 
And officials said Thursday even though she did not com­that decision could come at the pete after being clubbed above last moment, before women's the right knee following a prac­skating begins at Lillehammer, tice session. 
CAVANAUGH HALL PLAYERS 
Norway, Feb. 23. "It's still at the point where Harding said Thursday she 
PRESENT
they (Harding's actions} may or learned of the plot after the at­may not be an issue," said tack but failed to immediately Francois Carrard, director gen-tell authorities. 
THE ODD COUPLE 
6y Neil SimDn 

Thursday, Friday, Saturday 
r

January 27, 28,29
99¢ 

8:10pm
SUNDAY SPECIAL* 
(no coupon required) 

Buy a regular 6" cold sub sandwich at 
Washington Hall
regular menu price and receive ·a 2nd 6" 1 \ . cold sub of equal or lessor value for 99¢. I 
________________... 
Free Admission 
((_~~) *Limited Time Customer must pay sales tax due 1
L. 

EVERYBODY CAN DANCE 
REGARDLESS OF AGE, RACE, GENDER, PHYSICAL CONDITION, DANCING OR ACTING ABILITY 
# ' / ' ~ "---........, ....~ 
__...­
a parfic.ipatiDn danc.e perfOrmance 



JANUARY 28 AT 7:00PM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM MUST BE THERE IN THE BEGINNING SMC · ND ID REQUIRED 8rougllt to you 6y the trlultiCultural Executive Council  

.... 

-~-----~~ ~­
Friday, January 28, 1994 The Observer • THE HARDING FILE 
Harding makes confession, denial 

ure to immediately report this information is not a crime, I know I have let you down, but I 
have also let myself down." fact and fails to report it, Frink "Nancy Kerrigan and I can Multnomah County deputy said: "We can't comment on show the world two different district attorney Norm Frink the state of the law. That's types of figure skating," Hard­
HAPPY 
BIRTHDAY 

their opinion." "We're not going to comment Harding made repeated ref­ing on the team with her." 
said of Harding's statement, ing said. "I look forward to be­
MIKE 

on it." erences to Kerrigan and ex­Kerrigan was practicing Asked whether it is true that pressed respect for her fellow when Harding made her state­
CATENACCI 

no crime is committed if one skater and sadness over her in­ment and was not available for learns of an illegal act after the comment.
jury. 
LOVE, 
DAD, KATHY, VICKI, 
KATIE, MICHELLE 
AND MATT 

FORMAL WEAR RENTALS & ALTERATIONS We offer the best selection, best quality & best service-at the best price in town $10 off any tuxedo in stock with this ad
The shirt that 

prices $55-$75 
Since 
1980 

eie • f.f$1':1:11:1
tells the TRUTH! 
Town & Country Shopping Center, 2452 Miracle Lane, Mishawaka, ln. 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 


cotton T-Shlrts 

• PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 
BACK 
& Sweatshirts 

• SEVERAL UNITS AvAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OccuPANCY 
Now TAKING APPUCATIONS FoR
T-Shlrts Sweatshirts $15.~ $25.'l9.. 

'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR
Phone Orders Accepted! and under_add $4.50 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL
310·791-4492 shipping 
30.0l-$50__add $5.50 

VISA-M.C. CHECK 
and......._.,.,Jv·.v -$l00__add $6.50

Winning systems, Inc. 3805 PCH, Suite 101 hamllin!! 
lOO.Ol-$200_add $7.50 Torrance, CA 90505 Ill and over-add 
232-8256 

By JEFF BARNARD 
Associared Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 

Tonya Harding admitted today she failed to tell authori­ties what she knew about the Nancy Kerrigan attack, but de­nied planning to injure her fig­ure skating rival and asked to remain on the U.S. Olympic team. 
Harding's statement came as her ex-husband, who was ar­rested in the attack, was ap­parently working out a deal with authorities to te'stify against her. 
One law enforcement source told The Associated Press Wednesday. "The walls are really closing in on that girl." 
Wearing a jacket from the 
U.S. team at the 1991 World Championships, Harding said she was "embarrassed and ashamed to think that anyone close to me could be involved" but said she had "no prior knowledge" of the attack. 
"I am responsible, however, for failing to report things I learned about the assault when I returned home from nation­als," she said, reading from a statement in a voice that shook with emotion at times. 
It was at the U.S. National 
Figure Skating Championships 
in Detroit that Kerrigan was 
smashed on her right knee Jan. 
6 with a metal baton, knocking 
her from the competition won 
by Harding. 
"Many of you will be unable 
to forgive me for that," she said 
about her failure to inform au­
thorities. "It will be difficult for 
me to forgive myself." 
She did not say what informa­tion she withheld. Harding said that a few days after returning home Jan. 10, she learned "persons that were close to me" may have been involved. "My first reaction was one of disbelief. and the disbelief was followed by shock and fear." 
Harding and her ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly, spoke with author­ities for 10 1/2 hours on Jan. 18. 
It was during that session that Harding issued a statement breaking off her live-in rela­tionship with Gillooly, with whom she had reconciled after divorcing in August. 
Gillooly, her former body guard and two other men have been arrested in the attack on Kerrigan. 
If Harding is charged, she could be removed from the U.S. Olympic team competing at the Winter Games in Lillehammer, Norway, next month. 

The U.S. Figure Skating As­
sociation said today it has ap­
pointed a five-member panel to 
investigate Harding's alleged 
involvement in the attack. The 
USFSA gave no deadline for the 
panel to conclude its investiga­
tion. 

Harvey Schiller, executive di­rector of the U.S. Olympic Committee, said in a statement the USOC "is deeply concerned with statements made today by Tonya Harding relative to her stated knowledge of the attack on Nancy Kerrigan at the na­tional championships." 
Schiller said the USOC "is prepared under Constitutional procedures, to iniate any action deemed appropriate relative to the conduct of any athlete en­tered in the Games." 
Harding's attorney has al­ready indicated they would fight any attempt to remove her from the team. 
"I still want to represent my country in Lillehammer next month," she said. "Despite my mistakes and rough edges, I have done nothing to violate the standards of excellence, of sportmanship that are expected of an Olympic athlete." 
Harding said she has since told authorities what she knows about the attack and "although my lawyers tell me that my fail­

page 18 

The Observer • Super Bowl Friday, January 28, 1994 
Odomes, Bills want to shock Cowboy receivers 
By JOHN F. BONFATII Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Nate Odomes, his feet propped on a table, empha­sized he wasn't pleased that more people were talking about Dallas' Michael Irvin and Alvin Harper than his Buffalo Bills defensive back­field mates. 
Finally, someone asked him point blank: "Is there too much made out of their wide­outs?" 
Odomes, who tied for the NFL interception lead this sea­son with nine, looked up. 
"You all make a hell of a lot out of them," he said. "Henry Jones led the league in inter­ceptions last year. I led it this year. We have some capable people as well." 
Further discussion about Irvin and Harper is cut off by Odomes. ''I'm not the type to talk about how good somebody is if I have to play against them. I don't want to talk about their receivers." 
Who _can blame him? Irvin and Harper combined for 159 
Mon-Thurs Fri-Sat $6minimum 
$1 service charge for orders under $15 
10:15 THE 
PELICAN BRIEF 
JULIA ROBERTS ~ DENZEL WASHINGTON 
12:30,4:00,7:00, 10:00 [!] 
BeetOOveiis ~ 
1:00, 3:00, 5:15, 7:15 IPGI 

yards and three touchdowns in Dallas' 52-17 victory in last year's Super Bowl. 
Making sure that doesn't happen again will be a job left to Odomes, strong safety Jones, cornerback Mickey Washington, free safety Mark Kelso, and key reserves Thomas Smith, Matt Darby and Kurt Schulz. 
They know it will be difficult. They also know they can't shy away from the challenge. 
"The key is to be aggres­sive," Kelso said. "If you go out there afraid to make a mistake, you're probably going to make a mistake. The more aggressive you are, the better chance you have of something good happening." 
The Bills can't be too aggres­sive, however, in their base two-deep zone, where safeties Jones and Kelso stay back until the pass is thrown. 
"When we're in our zone coverage, when they catch the ball, we're going to have to get people there and make them pay for catching the ball short," Jones said. 
C~O?ST~CJ<S 
CHINESE FAST FOOD 
We Deliver to Your Dorm! 
11 a.m. -9 p.m. 11 a.m.-10 p.m. 
East Location: 
525 N. Eddy St. South Bend, IN 232-1177 
Special • CHOPSTiCI<S • Special 
i 10°/o Off Total Purchase 
I 

L-------------------------------------------------~ 
jUSTICE Is COMING mM U~ ~lNlH Wlll~INilm~ 

T0 M Bn0NEPlllllllUII ~ 
1:30,4:45,7:15,8:45 
-


12:15,2:30,5:00,7:30,8:45 ~ 
GRUMPY OLD MEN 
JACK LEMMON ~ 1:15,4:15,8:45,8:00 
Now FREE REFDL on Popeom (J Soft Drinks! 

Super Bowl the definition ofluck for Irvin 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
Michael Irvin was talking_ lucky. About life. About being a millionaire. About playing in. the Super Bowl. 
And whenever he hears about some of his former buddies around Fort Lauderdale, Fla., he realizes just how lucky he has been. 
"A buddy of mine calls and somebody has either died, or been put in jail," Irvin said. "There's always some problem. I was lucky." . Irvin was one of 17 children, but he stayed off the back­streets as much as he could. 
Ill 
::z:: 
1­

His family wasn't blessed with money. He can remember pouring water on his cereal as a nickel-saver. 
"I still put water on my ce­real, but it's because I'm too lazy to drive to the store," 'Irvin said. "I have the money now. Back then there was no milk." 
Excuse Irvin then for his nu­merous gold necklaces, gold watches and gold bracelets. 
Excuse Irvin for his brash street talk. Excuse Irvin for his flashy clothes. 
Excuse Irvin for his sports car with "PLAYMAKER" on the li­cense plates. 
This kid grew up on hard times. Now he wants to enjoy 
, 
the good times. 

"I wouldn't take anything for the experience I'm having now," Irvin said. "This is good. Real good." 
Irvin talks about Sunday's game against the Buffalo Bills like it's an earthly heaven. . "This is the Super Bowl and you don't need any extra moti­vation," he said, rubbing his hands together gleefully. "The game tells you everything. You play this game because it's a chance to make history. 
"I know a lot of guys in the NFL and how many times do you get a chance to play in this game? Not many have had a chance to play in it let alone a chance to talk about winning." 

HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1994-95 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 25, 1994 
. 

RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

A college education takes$$$. students majoring in engineering, Don't send out an SOS. U 2 can get science, business, nursing and a the $$$ you need with a merit-number of other majors. B 1 of based Army ROTC Scholar-them. Army ROTC scholar­ship. l,OOO's of scholarships ships are A+. They're as good are awarded every year to as Au. 

ARMYROTC 

m SMARTESTCOWGE COURSEYOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
.... 


~---~----­
---------~-----~-~-~--~~---~-------­
Friday, January 28, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
Barkley leads All-Star vote getters 
•
Bradshaw, Summerall fall in Fox line with Madden 
Summerall, who also worked excited with what I'm going tO> on tennis and golf events at be doing, whatever it is." CBS, had to make a choice after Fox stunned the television Fox outbid CBS for the right to world when it bid $1.58 billion broadcast NFC games next sea-for the coveted NFC package. 
Happy 21st Birthday Geoff! 
Lava, Ann, Cathy, Kim, Sara, Sean 
Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and dovmtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program thatlncludos team sports, free aerobics classes, and much more. 
Efficiencies from ~70
1-Bedrooms from 285 
2-Bodrooms from 5 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Servico Planned Adivities with Free A~robics 
Slop by today and we'll show you how aHordable apartment living can be. 


~7~-tSSf) 
rHICKORij DlLLAqEfH 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6, SClt. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

John Madden was the first to go. Today, Terry Bradshaw and Pat Summerall followed the same path from CBS to the Fox Network. 
Summerall, who had been at CBS for 32 years, will join Madden on the top announcing team at Fox next season, while Bradshaw will have one of two spots on the network's hour­long pregame show. 
Joining them at Fox will be Ed Goren, a senior producer at CBS Sports since 1991. 
The Associated Press had re­ported Monday that Summerall and Goren had signed contracts with Fox. 
"There's been a lot of expan­sion teams in the NFL," Goren said at a news conference, "but this is going to be the best ex­pansion team in the history of the NFL." 
son. 

''I'm going to miss the golf and tennis," said Summerall, who will broadcast a few more golf tournaments on CBS before leaving for Fox. ''I've been playing those sports as long as I played football.... But I was forced to make a decision and I made the decision to stay with what I love, professional foot­ball." 
Bradshaw, a CBS analyst since 1984, began looking elsewhere after Fox won the television rights to NFC games 
"My choices were very lim­ited," he said. ''I'm a football person." 
But Bradshaw said he strug­gled over whether to accept the offer from Fox but decided to leave CBS after calling his fa­ther. 
"He said, you're a football man, and that's all I'm going to say," Bradshaw said. ''I'm very 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Charles Barkely of the Phoenix Suns led all vote-get­ters in the final tabulation of fan balloting for the NBA All­Star teams, released today. 
With 794,836 votes, Barkley will start at forward for the Western Conference team, along with Shawn Kemp of Seattle, who had 481,880 votes. 
Fan balloting determines the starters for the game on Sun­day, Feb. 13 at the Target Center at Minneapolis. 
Also starting for the West will be center Hakeem Olajuwon of Houston (478,018), and guards Clyde Drexler of Portland (493,204) and Mitch Richmond of Sacramento (469,978). 
The Eastern Conference starters will be center 

Shaquille O'Neal of Orlando (603,346). forwards Scottie Pippen of Chicago (496,505) and Derrick Coleman of New Jersey (482,261), and guards 
B.J. Armstrong of Chicago (529,065) and Kenny Anderson of New Jersey (493,690). 
The coaches of the two teams will select the remain­ing seven players on each squad. 

ry 25-27 
are In 
s 

2500 Miracle Lane 
Town & Country Shopping Center 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
(219) 254-0100 
Has Added More FUN FOR YOUI 
ffouxw-CoWtc" 
Bumper Karts 



A futuristic game of
ONLY $2°0 

lazer tag played in our
per ride 

air-inflated space port!
Come and 
118ump" 

ONLY $350 per game
someone you knowf 

Yes, we still have 36 holes of miniature golf and over 12S video arcade games! 
We are now serving the best pizza in town! 


~---------~-------------,--·------·--~ ~---~~----­
page 20 The Observer • Sports 
Irish, Bonnies clash in swimming rivalry

.. 
By KELLY CORNELIS 
Sporu Writer 
Last year Notre Dame swim teams traveled to St. Bonaven­ture and beat the men's team and tied the women. This year the Irish will have a tough time repeating that task as the Bon­nies come to South Bend on Saturday. 
The women's contest will begin at 11 
a.m. and the men will start off at 2 p.m. at Rolrs Aquatic Center. 
Kevin Flanagan 
After a heat­ed rivalry that began several years ago when the Leprechaun shoved a few Bonnie swimmers into the pool, these two Catholic schools are both determined to win. 
The men look to hold off the Bonnies for one more year, and to improve their 7-5 record. 
Sophomore Ryan Schroeder will race in three individual events and one relay, and stressed the team's emphasis on swimming their fastest times, along with beating St. Bonaventure. 
"The Championships are only three weeks away, so this a great chance for us to swim faster than we have all season, and we're ready to do that," 
Friars 
continued from page 24 
for 17 points and point guard Lamarr Justice steadied the Irish offense, committing just two of Notre Dame's 13 turnovers. 
That was the difference Wednesday. 
Can it happen again? 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women s Lacrosse: First meeting is Monday, January 31 at Loftus at 10:00 p.m. All are welcome. If you can't come or have any questions, call Molly Donius at 273-6539 or Allison Martin at X2377. Bring sticks and be ready to play. 
ki Trip: There will be an infor­mational meeting for those interested in the spring break trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming on Thursday January 27 in 127 Niewland at 8 p.m. Questions? Contact Dave Zidar at 273-3105 or Kevin Malone at 4-1062. RecSports: There will be a meeting for soccer officials at the JACC auditorium at 5:30 
p.m. on Janu11-ry 27. All inter­ested officials please attend. RecSports: Deadline is Thursday January 27 for Cam­pus Indoor Soccer and Campus Badminton Doubles. RecSports: There will be a 

.... 
soccer captains meeting at 5 
p.m. 
on January 27 at the JACC auditorium. Ketsu-ka self defense class meets Tuesday and Thursday from 6:30-8:00 p.m. in Rockne 219 and Sundays from 2:00-3:50 

p.m. 
in Rockne 301. The regis­tration fee is $18 paid in advance at RecSports. For more information call1-6100. Shorin-ryu karate classes begin Wednesday, January 26. They will meet Mondays and Wednesdays between 4:30 and 


6:00 in Rockne 301. 

-
said Schroeder. "We also want to make sure we keep winning and the Bonnies keep losing." 
"This one is going to be tough," added men's captain, senior Kevin Flanagan. "We're all fired up for these guys, and we hope a lot of people show up to support us because they re­ally packed it in up there last year." 
The women hope to emerge with a victory to avenge their tie from last year. The Bonnie women have strong relays and will be tough in the long-dis­tance events. 
"It's going to be the biggest dual meet of the season," said freshman swimmer Elizabeth Rice, who will compete in the 500 and 1000 freestyle races. 

Spring Break '94 
Located on 
the tropical tip of Texas, South 

Padre Island is the hottest Spring Break destination. Literally! 
This year, Spring Break at SPI is hotter than ever with more music, more watersports and more legendary nightlife. Where else can you be breakin' and get aspicy taste of Mexico to boot? 
part in asand castle contest. 
South Padre Island Spring Break '94 information in the mail TODAY! 
Be apart of the College Beach Volleyball Championships, or build your 
The Country Music Association wil be sand-blastin' ~on the beach with 
coUNIRY MUsrc ASSOCIATION 
confederate Ra i I road, the Gibson/Miller Band and Brother Phelps. But that's not all. 

© 1994 South Padre Island Convention &Visitors Bureau 600 Padre Blvd., South Padre Island, Texas 78597 


1-800-1-FLY-SWA 1-800-~33-7300 1-800-525-0280 

"They've improved their dis­tance events, and they're a very good spring team~" 
"The relays are going to be key," commented captain Kristin Heath. "On paper, the meet could go either way." 
Freshman Karen Dayor will be swimming in those key re­lays, and also competing in the 50 free and the 100 fly. "Ev­erybody's looking forward to it," said Daylor. "From what I've heard about last ye~r, it should be an exciting meet." 
Coach Tim Welsh is also very excited about the challenge ahead. 
"It's always been a very well­contested meet, and the best thing about it is that the races are always so close." 



~ 

SOUTHWESI' AIRUNES­
}I.!St PlaneSmart: 

South Padre Island, Texas 
Lari White, Little Texas 
and Twister Alley will rock you till the sun goes down. 
South Padre Island is convenient by car or by plane. You'll find 
aflight to fit your schedule on Southwest, American or Continental Airlines via the Valley International Airport in Harlingen or, 
by Continental to Brownsville's International Airport. 
So what are you waiting for? Pick up your phone now and call 1-800-343-2368. Tell them you want your 



Radisson Resort Spring Break Party Headquarters 

Newly renovated. located on 10 acres of beachfront. For reservations call: 
1-800-292-7704 1-210-761-6511 
Fly to South Padre Island via Harlingen's Valley International Airport 

--------~ ~-----­
.. •• , """li~\f" 
' ;<:bilq Friday, January 28, 1994 The Observer • SWIMMING page 21 
..
Saint Mary's swimmers prepared for University ofChicago 
BY CHERYL GILLILAND Sports Writer 
After a close and disappoint­ing loss to Kalamazoo College on Wednesday, the Saint Mary's swim team is looking to regain control of their home pool this Saturday when they host the University of Chicago at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Head Coach Greg Janson ex­plained that although the Belles are disappointed with Wednes­day's results, they are main­taining a positive attitude. 
"The final score was not a good indicator of how we swam," said Janson. "I think we swam well and came out of the meet with a good experi­ence." 
Several swimmers performed very well against Kalamazoo and some even set season records. 
Senior captain Ellen Kramer, a sprint freestyler, swam her 


Happy Birthday Dawn & Jess! Love, Us 


® 

season best splits in the medley relay and the freestyle relay. She also swam a spectacular 200 breaststroke, which is not her usual event. · 
· "I really think that she will perform even better in the 100 freestyle," said Janson. 
He also explained that she has shown great improvement in the 50 freestyle, and he is looking for a similar improve­ment in the her 100 meter times. 
Sophomore Jill Cooper, the number one breaststroker for Saint Mary's, swam her season best time in both the 100 and 200 meter breastroke. 
"Jill was more relaxed for these events, and that paid off for her," said Janson. "I think she'll swim incredibly if that continues." 
Sophomore Katie Rose set her season record in the 200 back­stroke and was .09 seconds off the school record. 
Janson noted that Rose's times have been consistently dropping throughout the season and that he expects her to keep it up. 
Teresa Popp, sophomore freestyler, swam her season best splits in the 100 meter race and pulled off a victory in that event. 
"All of these times were very encouraging," said Janson. "I think that we will swim better this weekend because of it." 
Junior Tara Krull, who swam her season best time in the 200 
CIGNA CORPORATION INFORMATION SESSION 
LIFE ACfUARIES DISCUSSING ACfUARIAL CAREER OPPORTlJNITIES MEMBERS OF AILCLASSES ARE WELCOME!! 
DATE: Monday, January 31, 1994 TIME: 6:00-8:00 p.m. PLACE: La Fortune Sudent Center, Dooley Rm. DRESS: CASUAL 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
'DOMINOS PIZZA 
271-0300 
LARGE PIZZA 


PLUS TAX 
STORE HOURS 

SUN-TH 4:30-1 am 
FRI-SAT 4:30-2am 
CHEESE PIZZA TOPPINGS $1 EACH­VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY EXPIRES 5-13-94 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE 
PRODUCT SERVICE GUARANTEE: 
IF FOR ANY REASON YOU ARE UNSATISFIED WITH OUR PRODUCT OR SERVICE, PLEASE CONTACT THE STORE MANAGER IMMEDIATELY 
AND WE'LL FIX IT. 
Butterfly, is also optimistic about tomorrow's meet despite the disheartening loss to Kala­mazoo. 
"We really came together last night and almost pulled it off," said Krull. "I really think that we can play off of that for Sat­urday's meet." 
Krull also swims the 1000 freestyle in which her times have continued to drop over the season, especially in the last few meets. 
"I really felt good about my performance and the team's," she said. 
"I think our times will keep dropping and that we'll be able to win this meet." 
Janson noted some concern about the events in which the University of Chicago has ex­celled. 
"(They} are strong in some -events that we haven't been pushed in yet," he said. 
He expects the toughest com­petition to be in the 500 and 1000 meter freestyle events. 
But freshman Shannon Kelleher has dominated these all year. 
Janson is optimistic abotrl Kelleher's abilities and is look­ing forward to the challenge of some tougher competition. 
"Shannon has not lost in these events all year," said Janson. "There is a tough girl from Chicago who will push her to do some good things." 
Janson is also anticipating good races in the 200 meter IM, one of Rose's events, and in the 200 meter breaststroke. · 
In this event, several good distance swimmers will be chal­lenged and look to improve. 
Krull noted that the Belles beat the University of Chicago last year and will be up to the challenge again this year. 
"I think that the meet will be a good one for everyone, espe­cially being in our home pool." she commented. 
Janson agreed. "Our level of confidence is up and our atti­tude is good. I think we'll swim even better than we did on Wednesday." 
...~ Sfllll6 Bid« .., 
SPRING 
EElK
CDMP~ETE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 
.. 
DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH STEAMBOAT 


VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANG ISLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
Fill AllOOIINAL N'OIIMMIW • IIESBIVIJIIM
I, •BDD•SUNCHASEI
• 
page 22 

The Observer • SPORTS 
"' Hockey team on road against the best 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
They know what to expect. Now, it is just a question of stopping it. 
For the fourth time this sea­son, the Notre Dame hockey team faces ofT against the top­ranked Michigan Wolverines at the Palace of Auburn Hills on Saturday night. 
The Wolverines have soundly defeated the Irish in the previ­ous three meetings. At least that is what the scoreboard in-

Michigan Sports lnlormation Junior goaltender AI Loges leads a stifling Wolverine defense. 
Guts 
continued from page 24 
of our size," explained 
McGraw. 
The experiment worked to perfection. Notre Dame outre­bounded Xavier 54-39, continuing to dominate in a statistic that ranks them ninth in the country. The Irish start­ing front line of Letitia Bowen, Carey Poor, and Tootie Jones cleared a combined 31 boards, led by Bowen's 17. This opened up the outside for the Irish backcourt of Kara Leary and Beth Morgan, who scored a combined 31 points and were 9-10 from the line in the waning seconds. 
"We've somewhat become used to out-rebounding our opponents," stated Bohman. "Coming ofT a letdown against Butler, we came out hard." 
Xavier was able to make one final run, but the depth of Notre Dame was too much. Bohman dominated the inside, while the Irish received a sur­ppse burst of offense from freshman Andrea Alexander, who scored a quick seven points. 
"Bohman was great off the bench, and Andrea, who's usu­ally a defensive stopper, was a real spark," commented Mc­Graw. 

Cancun Mexico r..m$439 Negrll Jamaica r..m$449 Montego Bay Jamaica ~.om$419 Daytona Beach, FL ~.om$149 Panama City Beach, FL ~.om$129 

... 
aE 
~ 
On-campus contact Mike @634-4.ol51 Angie @634-.o1659 Michael @63.ol-1121 120,...,...,. ,__.St.,.....__ HY 1450 1-800-6.ol8-4849 
Only one 5 bedroom 
house left! 
Fully Furnished 
Security Systems
Washers/Dryers 
Call Laurie McKelvey 287-4989 

dicated. However, all three games were evenly played ex­cept for one period. On Satur­day, the Irish will be looking to play a complete 60-minute game in order to pull what would be considered by the col­lege hockey world to be a mon­umental upset. 
"We just have to deny them that spurt they've had in the past," said coach Ric Schafer. ''I'll call a time-out, but I only get one. It'll be up to the play­ers. It's going to take an awful lot of hard work." 
One factor that may help the Irish will be the crowd. Last year's meeting between the two squads attracted 18,147 fans. Because they are used to crowds in the neighborhood of a few thousand, the added elec­tricity could possibly carry over onto the ice. 
This year's contest should match, if not exceed last year's total. Everyone wants to see the nation's undisputed top team. The Irish, too, should have some strong support. For one thing, they are Notre Dame and the Irish will always attract fans. In addition, this year·~ team, despite hovering under .500, has proven to be a com­petitive, and, at times, a tal­ented group of skaters. 
Notre Dame's senior·s·have 
never beaten the mighty 
Wolverines and Saturday 
marks their last regular season 
opportunity. 

"That'll be a big factor," said forward Jay Matushak. "We know we have to play a better game. Our attitude is right." 
Two seniors who must lead the Irish are captain Matt Osiecki, a defenseman, and goaltender Greg Louder. 
"We have to put an emphasis on defense," said Matushak. 
UM's offense is as powerful as they come. Averaging 5.6 goals per game, the Big Blue have at least three of the top skaters in college hockey. Osiecki will have to lead his fellow bluelin­ers to a consistently solid effort. As the cliche goes, "You can't stop 'em, you can only hope to contain 'em". 
A key factor in this contain­ment will be Louder. Dllring Notre Dame's recent six-game losing streak, the goaltending situation did not look promis­ing. This past weekend, Louder looked as if he was returning to his previous play before an injury. The Irish must get a solid, if not spectacular game from the netminder if they are to change the outcome of the previous three meetings. 
D N•TDRINK AND DRIVE!!!! 
Sl,IUN(; IUU~AU l,ilNil11Il (~I'I'Y IU~A(~II, Ji't()IU))Jl 
•Shell Island Party Cruises •Beach Bonfire Parties
0

650' Gulf Beach Frontage 2 Outdoor Swimming Pools 1 Indoor Heated Pool Restaurant, 2 & 3 Room Suites  -0 . ~­::. • .•  Tiki Beach Bar/Volleyball Sailboats, Jet skis & Parasails Karaoke Beach Party Area Discount Coupons  
SANDPIPER-BEACON 17403 Front Beach Road Panarm City Beach, Fl32413  RESERVATIONS 1-800-488-8828  FROM $104 PER WEEK PER PERSON 4 PERSON OCCUPANCY  



The Observer/ Brian McDonough 
Ben Nelson and the Irish defense will have their hands full against an 
explosive Michigan offense. 
Look Who's 21! 1/25/94 
Happy Birthday Susan! 
Love from your family, Mom, Dad, Terry & Jeannie 
Happy Birthday Jessica 
Love, Joann (15 Bill 

250 Programs 
for Professional & Personal Development 
• Personal Computers 
• GMAT, GRE, LSAT Review Courses 
• English as a Second Language 
• Quality Management • Administrative Assistant/ Office Management • Human Resources • Customer Service • Certified Financial Planner • CEBS • and much morel 
Most Classes Start Week of Feb.14 
(Computer classes start earlier) 
For Your FREE Catalog, Call 237-4261 
I 
IlliB 

INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SoUTH BEND 
CoNfiNUING EouanoN 1700 MisHAwAKA AVE., Soum BEND 

-------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------~ 

DAVE KELLETT 
TEr< tluc."" Se.-z. T 


53 Gossip 54"-bein 
England ..." ss Turndowns s& "Sommersby" 
star 


11£800USd Friday & Saturday January 28&29 at 8pm & l 0:30pm 

Cushing Auditorium Admission $2 7:30 in the Lafortune BallroomL....Ji~~ 
S'nJDENT UNION BOAitD 

Friday, January 28~1'994 The Observer • TODAY 
SPELUNKER 
1 C\M Kot ?RE5E.~tLi <:~+ Li~R-Ti

2.. Where is Pl'jmou\:h Rock? 
to l)iVULGE: -\-\jqt it-1-ToRlv'\ClltioN, 
~5 it MiGI-It Colo\PRoMi5E ouR Q<iENts iN -\1-\e ~iEL<i. 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON



.. . A .... ~"'~. I 1>o Tl\11•41< 1-r

.. l-\ .."1, ""I'm A-. Ey.c..OTE.t> A-s 
12 Letters 
13 Compass dir. 
21 Salvation Army 
founder 22 Eskimo­26 Latin things 28 Suffix with press or moist 
athlete 
Coot.. IF WE GoT ().. 
(ArnEP.A··· 
I 
57 French novelist 
Pierre sa Skiing mecca 59 Grammatical 
subject 61 Sponsorship 62 Shiny fur 63 Mrs. Dithers 64 Yiddish writer 
Sholem­65 Western "justice" 66 Genesis locale 
DOWN 
1 Actor Brooks 2 Eye malady 3 Bad luck 4 Kind of circuit sVegas game 6 Retirement nest 
eggs · 7 Flat payment? a Person with a big nose? 
9"The Resurrection of Lazarus" painter 
10 Backdrop for a TV scene 


... 13u,-TuST 'Be. cA..-;£ ~61S [,.lENT To l'ioTII£ l:>Nne. ... 
\ 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ANt> '1ou L:>o,..',.. . 
I 


3&Andirons 37 Sweet smelling 38 Fill-up filler 39"­
Tomorrow" (Sammy Kaye hit) 
40 Columnist Greenfield 

47 Nail down s7-&Perrins so Greek Academy &o Bert Bobbsey's founder twin 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
"'~ 
. ·_ ~;·· 

page 23 THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
... 

•The Wednesday Lunch Fast will begin again on February 2. If you were on the fast last semester, there is no need to sign up again. New fasters may sign up today in the North and South Dining Halls . 
DINING HALL 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Minestrone Soup 

Call 284-4500 Meatball Grinder 
menu-information Vegetable Egg Roll 
I 




~·" ARe. Asou...-'BE•""' lr. T..e. 
(l,-.'0 j(,n-IHE LEE. 
Aot>•£t.u...£. ••• 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Food critic Sheraton Sin the van 10 -law (rule of electricity) 14 Green acres? 15 Brendan Byrne, e.g. 16Muumuu accessories 17 Tilt 18Jabbered 19 Alternative word 
20 Massachusetts musical ensemble 
23 Othel:o's nemesis 24 Louvre annex architect 
25 Soviet space station 27 Brussels ­31 Fill driveway holes 33ln back 35Somme summers 
36 Parental substitutes, emotionally 
40Swamp 41 Hairsplitter 42Wore away 45 Chapel next to 
St. Peter's 48 It's often seen 
ringside 49 Carpet down 51 Get-the 
ground floor 52 Harvestman 
WouL.l>l3e. 

--.,.
-. 
SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, January 28, 1994 
Irish jump into first with victory over Xavier 
Tough practices, gut check pay off 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant SportS Editor 
It's amazing how a few tortuous practices change a team's mentality. 
Following last Saturday's disappointing loss at home to Butler, Notre Dame women's bas­ketball coach Mufftlt McGraw decided that she was going to the Josef Stalin school of coaching. 
The result was an impressive 72-58 win by the Irish last night over the Xavier Lady Musketeers in a battle for first place in the MCC. 
"We had a very difficult week of practice where we worked the team hard, maybe too hard," stated McGraw with a straight face after the game. "However, I think our effort paid off." 
Freshman forward Rosanne Bohman gave a slightly different version. 
"We had a number of good practices this week, but hard is an understatement," explained Bohman, who was five of six from the floor for ten points. "It was more like a test of wills." 
The wills of the Irish were definitely focused on dismantling a 12-6 Lady Musketeer team. Notre Dame jumped out to a quick 8-2 lead as interior passing opened up the Irish inside game. 
Xavier righted itself to close the deficit to 20-19, but the Irish went on a 10-0 run to close out the first half. With its outside shooters struggling to find the mark, Notre Dame's inside players went to work. 
"We went with three big players tonight instead of the three guards to take advantage 
• • The Observer/ T.J. Harris 
Freshman Beth Morgan combmed w1th backcourt teammate Kara Leary for 31 points, as Notre Dame rolled over Xavier 72-58 last 

... 
t 
see GUTS I page 22 night. 

Irish bleeding must end against Friars 

By JASON KELLY Associate Spons Editor 
These ups and downs are enough to make you nauseous. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team is searching for stability and there is no accu­rate gauge to determine which team will show up Saturday at the Joyce Center against Provi­dence. 
Will it be the team that lost back-to-hack home games to Manhattan and Loyola? Or will it be the team that nearly pulled the biggest upset of the season Wednesday at Duke? 
"We have to look at this and realize it's not enough," Irish coach John MacLeod said after the 7 4-72 loss to the Blue Dev­ils. "We have to build on this performance and realize that this is how we're capable of playing." 
Notre Dame has played its best against its best competi­tion this season. But they have played its worst against its worst competition. 
Providence falls somewhere in the middle. 
The Friars are certainly a better than average team, but when a schedule includes Duke, North Carolina, UCLA, Kentucky and Indiana, Providence doesn't look quite 
The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 
Lamarr Justice will hope to spark the Irish at point guard tonight. 
so imposing. 

But don't go rushing off to your bookie just yet. 
Senior forward Michael Smith and center Dickey Simpkins make the Friars one of the na­tion's best rebounding teams. That is a weakness for the Irish, who have only two play­ers averaging more than five rebounds per game. 
Production is lacking from the Providence backcourt, but point guard Abdul Abdullah is a mas­ter distributor. 
But after Wednesday's per­formance at Duke, the quality of competition doesn't seem to matter. Quality of performance is the key. 
If the Irish can scare Duke, they can scare anybody. 
Senior Monty Williams is enough to make anyone sweat in their socks and his 34 point performance against the Blue Devils considerably raised his stock. 
"Monty is not only an out­standing player," MacLeod said. "But as a senior he has really become a leader on this team." 
Ryan Hoover has been Notre Dame's No. 2 weapon. He was the only other Irish player in double figures Wednesday, with 10. 
Hoover has also hit 24 con­secutive free throws and he needs just 12 to tie Austin Car­r's school record. 
But Hoover and Williams have been the top guns through the good times and the bad. What happened Wednesday was the emergence of some players who had been conspic­uously absent. 
The Ross brothers combined 
see FRIARS/ page 20 
Fencers out for respect at New York tournament 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 

In order to be respected among the ranks of collegiate fencing, hard, proven competi­tion helps in determining a cer­tain amount of recognition a team will receive. 
For the Notre Dame fencing team, this weekend and the fol­lowing two will go a long way in adding to the Irish's already prestigious reputation around the nation. 
"For Notre Dame to remain in the ranks of a national champion contender, meeting the best teams during the regular season is essential to prepare for the NCAA champi­onship," said head men's coach Mike DeCicco. 
Test No. 1 comes Sunday in New York as the Irish face de­fending NCAA champion, Columbia along with perennial contenders, St. John's and Rut­gers. 
"These next three weekends will tell us how good we really are," added armorer Greg Rip­ple. 
However, the Irish have al­ready learned a lot about themselves in their past four meets as all five teams, three men's and two women's, sport unblemished 4-0 marks. 
The women's epee team looks solid in just their first season, adding to an already strong foil unit. 
The epee team is lead by seniors Marit Fischer and Maura Gallagher and sopho­more Danielle Girardi. 
"For a squad that just started competing there is a lot of team unity and spirit," said senior foilist captain Didi Garcia.As for this weekend, the Irish can look back to last year to see what has to be done to defeat the defending champs. 
In defeating Columbia 16-12 a year ago, the men's sabre team stepped up against Columbia's All-Americans to win the bout. 
A repeat performance would definitely enhance the Irish's chances this weekend along with building momentum for their future meets. 
This geographic difference means a great deal in the world of fencing, and the Notre Dame coaches and players rec­ognize the need to perform well. 
"We must step up our game a notch to compete with teams," said Ripple. 


Inside SPORTS Irish Swimming The Harding File 
Super Bowl XXVIII 
Jennifer Dahl and Notre 

Despite injuries and Dame swim teams take 
Tonya Harding admits 
hype, Dallas and Buffalo on St. Bonaventure. 
she knew about the 
are ready to square otT 
on Sunday. 

Nancy Kerrigan attack. 
I
I!
see page 20 ()()(") see pages 16-1 7 

""(XY 
see page 15 
Lillehammer'94 

..... ­








