

Friday, March 4, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 103 THE IN DE PEN DENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAl NT MARY'S 
Borkowski to handle harassment complaints 
By JASON WILLIAMS News Writer 
John Borkowski has been ap­pointed the first ombudperson for discriminatory harassment complaints at Notre Dame. 
Borkowski, the Andrew McKenna Family Professor of Psychology, will serve as both a liaison and counselor for fac­ulty, staff and students for re­porting allegations of discrimi­natory harassment. 
"The position is designed to facilitate reporting or counsel­ing any discriminatory acts on behalf of a person," Borkowski said. "If a person wants it re­solved I can help them formu­late a report to the appropriate superior or I can help them re­solve it directly with the parties involved." 
Currently complaints can be filed with the Office of Residence Life, the director of human resources, or with ap­propriate faculty and staff su­pervisors. 
Notre Dame defines harass­ment as "any physical conduct intentionally inflicting injury on the person or property of an­other, or any intentional threat of such conduct, or any hostile, intentional and persisting bad­gering, addressed directly at another, or small group of oth­ers that is intended to intimi­date its victim(s) from any University activity, or any ver­bal attack, intended to provoke the victim(s) to immediate physical retaliation." 
Such conduct would also be discriminatory in nature if it is "accompanied by intentionally demeaning expressions con­cerning the race, gender, reli­gious, sexual orientation or na­tional origin of the victim(s)." 
Borkowski said he hopes his position will also set a tone for prevention of discriminatory harass91ent at the University. 
"I hope the position will not only have an effect on harass­ment, but also serve as a pre­ventative function," he said. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 196 7, Borkowski conducts research in the devel­opmental processes of learning and memory across the human life span. 
Under terms of the harass­ment policy as passed by the Academic Council, the om­budsperson is appointed by University President Father Edward a Malloy, in consulta­tion with other officers of the University. 
Borkowski's appointment is effective immediately. 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
Jamming 
Zahm Hall senior Scott "Wings" Sobol, of the campus group m (slope), performs at Acoustic Cafe on Thursday night. 

Character essential for happiness 
ByJOHNZACH News Writer 
Character development is the most important instrument in a person's happiness, ac­cording to Verge Gilliam, who spoke at the Fireside Chats yes­terday afternoon in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
"Character development is the ongoing process through which an individual or com­munity strives to acquire dis­tinctive traits, qualities or at­tributes which will move them to a higher place of existence," said Gilliam. 
"Character is the reason that everyone is here at Notre Dame," he continued. 
Gilliam believes that through insight into the self, one can achieve a state of "wellness" and a clear perspec­tive on where one's character stands. 
Character development con­tains many factors, according to Gilliam. Amongst these are personal value systems, educa­tional reinforcement of ideas, cultural aspects, community 
see FIRESIDE I page 4 



Rosenstone: Electoral institution necessary to understand 
By ROB ADAMS News Writer 
Establishing an international electoral institution to study and compare politics around the world is very necessary to comprehend the relationships between voters and represen­tatives of government in demo­cratic systems, according to Steven Rosenstone, professor of political science at the University of Michigan, who lec­tured Thursday on "The Comparative Study of Electoral Systems." 
"Many of the arguments that people put forth predicated on assumptions of how voters will act under certain systems are just that, assumptions," said Rosenstone. "It is impossible to understand how they will relate without first observing similar people in a similar situation. 
Rosenstone discussed the three most important issues that an institute of international politics would study and then cited questions which remain unanswered surrounding each topic. 
"The first argument is that of Parliamentaryism and Presidentialism, the two fun­damental ways by which to or­ganize," said Rosenstone. Arguments go on about lengths of term, arguments against the winner-take-all organization of a presidency, and arguments that a presidential system ob­scures accountability, accord­ing to Rosenstone. 
"Some argue that a presiden­tial system questions the capac­ity of the public to make choic­es; they don't know who is responsible," he said. 
However, some will argue that a presidential system opens up doors for more ac­countability, provides more fairness with its checks and balances, and it does a better job representing local needs, according to Rosenstone. 
"Not that I will weigh in on one side of this," said Rosenstone. 
"We know a lot about elec­toral laws but we do not have. knowledge about how it affects individual's interactions with representatives," said Rosenstone as he introduced the next main topic that would be studied at an electoral insti­tution. 
Questions are still wide open concerning electoral laws and how they affect strategic voting, how opportunities to vote are exploited by voters, and fun­damental questions about dif­ferent incentives for voting un­der electoral systems, accord­ing to Rosenstone. 
"Political parties are sup­posed to increase voter rationality in consolidating but do they really do that?" asked 
see ELECTORAL I page 4 


Sn1ith chosen to chair NAPAHE Turpin: Women must 
Special to The Observer Smith was appointed to his position as adviser to Father 
overcome many obstacles 
Roland Smith, executive as­Edward Malloy 
sistant to University President ·in 1988. In addition to his 
By TONY POTTINGER esteem that is a product of Father Edward Malloy, has advisory duties, he also is News Writer socialization and patriarchal been elected chairman of the director of the Notre Dame families and is reinforced by 
National Association of Urban Institute for Community Women have to perform a the educational structure." Presidential Assistants in and thousand times better than the "Women must imitate men Higher Education (NAPAHE). Educational Initiatives; chair average male to command the and adopt a male posture to Established in 1988, NAPA­of the University Committee on respect of men, according to succeed," said Turpin. 
HE provides and supports pro­Cultural Diversity; and an as­Barbara Turpin, associate dean Women who refuse to do this, fessional development activities sociate professor of sociology. of the graduate school. she says, are often shunned by and other programs for assis­Smith also is a member of Turpin hosted a forum yes­their female colleagues who tants to presidents at American The Martin Luther King, Jr. terday entitled "The Ollie North fear association with such colleges and universities. Federal Holiday Commission Roland Smith Syndrome: Women vs.Women women will impede their in the Academy." chances for promotion or
and chairs its committee on col­
assistant director of the 
lege and university involvement Turpin has informally studied tenure.
University's Upward Bound 
the experiences of women in Turpin also argued that
in the annual observance. 
program. He became the pro­
the Notre Dame Graduate women often change the tone
A graduate of Bowie (Md.) 
gram's director in 1976, and in 
School. She contends that, of their voices in order to com­
State College, Smith holds a 
1980 he established and 
master's degree in public af­suprisingly, one of the greatest mand more respect and to be
became director of the Center 
fairs from Indiana University­adversities women face in at­viewed as equals.
for Educational Opportunities,
South Bend and a doctorate in taining equality in the Graduate "Women are also seen as not
which includes Upward Bound 
education from Harvard School is not their treatment by writing the right way. This is
and other pre college projects 
males, but by other women. often a problem when attempts
University. 
designed to enhance post sec­
Turpin also said that are made to include texts writ­
After working for three years 
ondary opportunities for eco­
"females in graduate schools ten by women in schools,"
with the city of South Bend, he 
nomically disadvantaged. 
suffer from a lack of self-Turpin said. 
came to Notre Dame in 1973 as I 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Friday, March 4, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN 


An ugly 
portrait of 

ambiguity 
For a university, a place of higher education, a haven for inquiry and free speech, Notre Dame has a lot to hide. 
Or so it seems. 
Look no further than the sexual abuse charges against Father James Burtchaell, one of the University's most power­ful figures and it is clear that Notre Dame is rife with contradiction, riddled with inconsis­tencies and plagued by ambiguity. 
At once, it is both a Catholic university de­voted to open dialogue and a cloistered place, 'ealously guarding its tradition and image. The result can be ugly, especially when communi­cation falters. 
Dialogue was missing in 1991, when a group of concerned blacks and Hispanics resorted to a sit-in to get the administration to listen. It was missing a year later, when faculty mem­bers threatened a vote of no-confidence over a disagreement about academic governance. 
The message is clear -and potentially dam­aging to a University. The administration will wait until crisis threatens chaos or a blow to its image before serious discussion can begin. 
Such is the situation that faces gays and les­bians on campus. For years, the University has ignored the concerns of these students, ban­ished them to the margins as another victim of Notre Dame's Catholic character. 
They have refused to allow them to become a legitimate group. They have hampered attempts by the underground group to pro­mote events. They have even refused an opportunity place the issue in a Catholic per­spective through a pastoral ministry group. 
I must say that I have never considered myself an advocate of any cause, much less that of gays and lesbians. Nor do I agree with homosexuality, in concept or practice. 
But I am also tired of groups, institutions and political parties telling people how they can live, what values are appropriate to es­pouse, what is American and what is not. 
It should not matter whether or not I believe homosexuality is appropriate or that Notre Dame needs more diversity or that faculty should have a greater say in academic affairs. A University should be a place for the active discussion of ideas. 
But this is a belief about which this University is more than ambivalent. At Notre Dame, Bill Clinton can champion abortion rights and a graduate can admit his homo­sexuality. But on the other hand, groups must kick in the door to the President's office before serious consideration of concerns can begin. 
Perhaps Notre Dame is uncertain about a future in which all its graduates do not look like they came from the same family. Or a future in which groups and conferences and classes might threaten to compromise this University's Catholic nature. 
But a place cannot grow without taking risks. And it is certain that Notre Dame can be both a better university and a haven for Catholic values and thought. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Laura Ferguson Kira Hutchinson Patti Carson Bridgette Farrell Kate Crisham Accent 
Sports Chris Weirup Tom Schlidt Graphics Viewpoint Brendan Regan 
Carolyn Wilkens Business Lab Tech David Clairmont Eric Ruethling Michael Manin 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday. except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

WORLD AT AGLANCE 
East is a beast, weatherwise 
Another in a seemingly endless assault of winter storms battered the East today, dumping snow, sleet and freez­ing rain from North Carolina to New England and leaving residents wondering when, if ever, this was all going to stop. 
The storm has. been blamed for four deaths. 
Propelled by fierce winds that gusted up to 50 mph, the storm rampaged up the Atlantic Coast, closing air­ports in Boston and New York City and knocking out power to more than 300,000 customers. 
"We're pretty sick of this," said Rhonda Lynch, a legal secretary in Martinsburg, W.Va. :fhe storm dumped up to 14 inches of snow on the state. · 
The story was different out west. Temperatures soared into the 60s as far north as Montana, and Southern California sizzled in record-breaking heat on Wednesday. More of the ·same was expected today. 
"It's a glorious day," said Peggy Stahl, who recently moved from New Jersey, as she walked along Newport Beach. Temperatures peaked at 90 in some areas; down­town Los Angeles hit a high of 87, surpassing the 1910 record for the date by one degree. 
Meanwhile, winter storm warnings were in effect today in Kentucky, Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York and all of southern New England. Snow advisories were posted for Tennessee, North Carolina and parts of Ohio. 
LaGuardia Airport in New York was shut down Wednesday night after a Continental Airlines jet was forced to abort takeoff. 
Man arrested at Prince Charles appearance 
LONDON 
Police arrested a knife-wielding man waiting in a crowd for Prince Charles to arrive at a movie premiere Thursday night. The man was among thousands gathered in Leicester square for a glimpse of Charles; the stars of "Shadowlands," Sir Anthony Hopkins and Debra Winger, and director Sir Richard Attenborough. The movie 

stars had arrived and were in the Odeon theater when the man was seized. He was acting suspiciously and pro­duced a kitchen knife and threatened police when chal­lenged, Scotland Yard said. No one was hurt, a spokesman for the police headquarters said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The 33-year-old man, whose name was not revealed, was disarmed and arrested 20 minutes before Charles arrived for the film's British pre­miere. Charles was accompanied by the Duchess of Kent, his cousin's wife. There was no indication whether Charles was an intended target. On Charles' trip to Australia in January, a man ran toward him with a start­ing pistol and was thrown to the ground within feet of the prince. 
A frantic 911 call leads to attacker's arrest 
NEW YORK 
The 911 caller on the Brooklyn Bridge was frantic. One hand on the wheel, the other on his cellular phone, he gave a police operator a play-by-play of the attack Tuesday morning on a van full of young Hasidic Jews. The call was the first break in the shooting that left a Hasidic student brain dead, three others wounded and a city in shock. Largely following a series of leads provided by the unidentified caller and dozens of others like him, police arrested the alleged gunman within 18 hours. The suspect, Rashad Baz, 28, of Brooklyn, was charged with 15 counts of attempted murder and ordered held without bail after his arraignment Wednesday. Baz, a livery cab driver from Lebanon, is accused of firing at least nine bullets from two high-powered pistols at the van in what victims and witnesses said was an unprovoked assault. 
Another storm hits the East Coast 
The 14th storm of the winter season battered the East on Thursday, dumping snow, sleet and freezing rain from North Carolina to New England. 
Source: Accu-Weather Inc. AP 


Man executed for 1983 slayings 
JARRATT, Va. 

A man convicted of killing two convenience store clerks during a pair of small-time robberies in 1983 was exe­cuted Thursday in Virginia's electric chair. Johnny Watkins Jr., 33, was pronounced dead at 11::11 p.m., said Wayne Brown, operations officer at Greensville Correctional Center, where the state's electric chair is housed. Watkins, who had been visited earlier Thursday by a paralegal and a friend, had no final statement, Brown said. "I've made peace and I'm about as ready as I'm going to get, I expect," he told a reporter Tuesday. Watkins, who is black, had asked Gov George Allen to grant him clemency, arguing that racism played a part in his sentencing. Allen rejected the request Thursday morning. "The governor has concluded that the facts of the case do not warrant exercise of the extraordinary remedy of executive clemency," a statement from Allen's office said. Watkins' lawyer, Gerald T. Zerkin, said his client's 1984 trials were tainted by racism and that blacks were systematically excluded from the juries that sentenced him. Commonwealth's Attorney William H. Fuller said state and federal courts found no discrimina­tion. 
Utah lawmakers protect all-male clubs 
SALT LAKE CITY 

The Utah Legislature passed a bill to allow the Elks and other fraternal organizations to discriminate against women and still hold state liquor licenses. The Utah House, in the final hours of the session that ended Wednesday at midnight, voted 39-35 to amend the state's Civil Rights Act to exclude fraternal, sororal or charitable organizations from some provisions. The Senate passed the bill earlier. Gov. Mike Leavitt would not say whether he intends to sign, veto or allow the measure to become law without his signature. Opponents worry the action will promote discrimination. Elks and others say it pro­tects freedom of association. "This is not the same level of discrimination that we've been dealing with in some of the other measures before us," said House Speaker Rob Bishop. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, March 4. 

-~------~ -~·-~~------~------~~-------------~---~ 

Friday, March 4, 1994 
Pentagon says ending draft no harm to security 

By SCOTT SONNER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The government could end peacetime registration for the military draft with little risk to 
U.S. security, the Pentagon said Thursday. President Clinton said registration should con­tinue temporarily. 
Current all-volunteer forces and a reduced global threat make draft reinstatement "highly unlikely," the Defense Department concluded in a re­port to Congress. "Consequently, peacetime draft registration could be suspended without irreparable damage to national security." 
The Pentagon stopped short of recommending an end to the Selective Service system, say­ing, "We should continue draft registration while we study possible alternative uses, such as applications to national ser­vice." 
President Clinton said in a letter, also made public Thursday, that the Selective Service System should remain in place until the National Security Council concludes a similar review this spring. 
"I concur in the secretary's recommendation that we should maintain registration while we study how to make the best use of Selective Service System capabilities and re­sources," Clinton wrote to Vice President AI Gore, the Senate president. 
Sen. Mark Hatfield, R-Ore., and Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-Ore., made the report and letter pub­
lic. Both are long-time advo­cates of ending peacetime reg­istration for the draft, saying elimination would save taxpay­ers as much as $29 million a year without weakening U.S. defenses. 
The Pentagon estimates a $6-million-a-year saving. 
"There are no more ex­cuses," said Hatfield, ranking Republican on the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
"Our military manpower re­quirements do not depend upon potential draftees," he said. 
DeFazio said, "For the first time in 14 years, we've gotten a straight answer from the Pentagon that says peacetime draft registration has nothing to do with real defense needs." 
Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, who chairs the Senate Armed Services readiness subcommit­tee, said he favors keeping reg­istration because "it's an inex­pensive way to keep records on the cadre of people who would be available if they were ever required to be used." 
But Glenn added he will not fight ending registration. "It's not a big burning issue." 
The report, "A Review of the Continued Requirement for Draft Registration," was com­pleted in December and for­warded to the Senate in February. 
"Peacetime draft registration could be suspended with no ef­fect on military mobilization re­quirements, little effects on the time it would take to mobilize and no measurable effect on military recruitment," the Pentagon said. 
"Although there would be a major effect on the organiza­tion and staffing of the SSS, suspending peacetime registra­tion could be accomplished with limited risk to national security considering the low probability of the need for con­scription," the report said. 
The Pentagon said a military draft would have to be rein­stated to support an extended, large-scale conventional war. But it would take months to ex­pand training bases and build equipment to use draftees ef­fectively. 


Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and dlscove.r affordablllty, convenience nnd comfort. 
We're just minutes from Unkersity Park Me:.ll, tha toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and wall kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includes team sports, free &.91'obics dasses, and much more. 
Efficiencies from \270 
1-Bedrooms from 285 
2-Bedrooms from 345 
Pool &Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Ualcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To St.opping 24-hour Emergency rAaintenance Service Planned Adivities with Free Aerobics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment Jiving can be, 

:1.7:1.-1 SSf) 

rHlCKORij 

VlLLA~E~ 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
I'm outta here! 

Keenan Hall sophomore Matt Lish takes a cab to escort him to his spring break destination. 


University receives multiple grants 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $1,612,203 in grants during January for the support of research and various pro­grams. Research funds totaled $1,569,153, including: 
• 
$374,071 from the National Institutes of Health for research by George Craig Jr., Clark pro­fessor of biological sciences, on vector competence for La Crosse encephalitis in Aedes mosquitoes. 

• 
$225,319 from the National Institutes of Health for research by Howard Saz, professor of bi­ological sciences, on the inter­mediary metabolism of helminths (parasitic worms). 

• 
$196,084 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Langley Research Center for multidis­ciplinary design technology de­velopment by John Renaud, Clark assistant professor of aerospace and mechanical en­gineering; Stephen Batill, pro­fessor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering and direc­tor of the Hessert Center for Aerospace Research; and oth­ers. 

• 
$168,639 from the U.S. Department of Agriculture for research by Alan Johnson, pro­fessor of biological sciences, on the relationship of TGF al­pha/EGF gonadotropin recep­tors. 


• 
$148,000 from Purdue University for semiconductor research by Jacek Furdyna, Marquez professor of physics, and Malgorzata Dobrowolska­Furdyna, associate professor of physics. 

• 
$120,090 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Thomas Fehlner, Grace-Rupley professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on main group transition element clusters. 

• 
$105,583 from Argonne National Laboratory for re­search by Charles Kulpa, pro­fessor of biological sciences, on biodegradation of INT and petroleum constituents. 

• 
$80,000 from the U.S. Navy for x-ray studies of semiconductor interfaces and alloys by Bruce Bunker, ass~­ate professor of physics. 

• 
$75,000 from the Amoco Chemical Research Center for collaborative materials re­search by Bruce Bunker, asso­ciate professor of physics. 

• 
$26,367 from the Indiana State Department of Health for arbovirus surveillance labora­tory service provided by Paul Grimstead, associate professor of biological sciences. 

• 
$22,500 from Union Carbide for research by Arvind Varma, Schmitt professor of chemical engineering, on opti­mal catalyst activity distribu­tions in pellets. 


Love, Tina, Ken ,Kat, Rachel & Greg 
P.S. Don't forget the lantling gear/ 
• 
$21,500 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Billie Spencer, asso­ciate professor of civil engineering and geological sci· ences, on the reliability and safety of controlled structures. 

• 
$5,000 from the National Science Foundation for under­graduate research by Arvind Varma, Schmitt professor of chemical engineering. 

• 
$1,000 from the Association of Theology Schools for re­search by Father Mark Poorman, on Christian ethics and pastoral practice. 

Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $43,050, in­cluding: 

• 
$24,000 from Purdue University for an image analy­sis system for use by Paul McGinn, associate professor of electrical engineering, and Albert Miller, professor of elec­trical engineering. 

• 
$12,000 from Purdue University for equipment to measure microwave dissipation in high temperature supercon­ductors, research by Howard Blackstead, associate professor of physics. 

• 
$7,050 from Purdue University for devices used in the research of far infrared re­sponsively of high temperature superconductors by Steven Ruggiero, associate professor of physics. 


friends drive drunk ­have a safe Spring break! 

·--~----------------­
page 4 


Electoral 
continued from page 1 
Rosenstone as he introduced the third topic for study in an electoral institution. 
"Parties differ in ideas and strength but how much do their differences matter?" Rosenstone asked. 
"For example, two parties, it's argued, simplify the alter­natives, so there is no need for a complicated argument. But there is a logical contradiction in that can they actually create accountability?" Rosenstone cited as one of the most com­mon arguments about political 

~ . 
parties. f Arguments about whether or not a two-party or multi­
t party system are better to help voters find their ideal point, which actually offers voters more choices, which is easier to assign blame, and which simplifies the alternatives. "One needs more than just micro-data and survey data; one needs macro data in order to determine how voters view their democratic systems," said Rosenstone. "Data needs to be organized in a fashion so that the individual and macro data are merged cross-nationally," he said. 


Fireside 
continued from page 1 
empowerment, and so­cialization. 
He also stressed the impor­tance of experiencing other cul­tures in the modern, multicul­tural environment. 
"We live in a world commu­nity that is rapidly shrinking," said Gilliam. "We must broad­en our horizons and open our minds." 

"In order to achieve a sense of happiness in our character development, we must balance many aspects of our lives," he said. 
Physical, social, emotional, spiritual, and mental health must all be achieved equally in order to obtain "wellness." 
"We are basically talking about feelings when we discuss 
character development," Gilliam said. 
Gilliam plans to expand on the topics presented at this Fireside Chats in the near future. 
Educated at Central State University in Wilberforce , Ohio, and the University of Dayton, Gilliam is currently working on a book about the importance of character devel­opment in the lives of people. 
Nigeria seized two towns and Nigeria alleged that Cameroon



Natcher's voting streak ends 
fired the first shots. 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Like baseball's Lou Gehrig, 84-year-old William H. Natcher has been the iron man of Congress, never missing a vote in a political career that stretches back to the first Eisenhower administration. 
That streak ended Thursday when the Kentucky Democrat, too sick to leave his hospital bed, said that for the first time in 40 years he would not be on the House floor when a vote was being taken. 
His record of 18,401 consec­utive votes has never been ap­proached, and House Speaker Tom Foley said it was a record "I believe will stand forever." 
"Obviously this is a sad mo­ment for all of us because of the unparalleled public service of Mr. Natcher," Foley, D­Wash., said in a tribute follow­ing Natcher's first missed vote since he was elected to Congress on Aug. 1, 1953. House members gave a stand­ing ovation for their absent col­league. 
President Clinton visited Natcher's hospital room Thursday afternoon and pre­sented him the Presidential Citizen's Medal, the nation's second-highest civilian award. 
The citation accompanying the medal said, "Few legisla­tors in our history have hon­ored their responsibilities with greater fealty or shunned the temptations of power with greater certainty than William Houston Natcher." 
''I'm so proud, I'm so proud of my 18,400 votes," the con­gressman told the president, who spent almost 20 minutes in his room. 
According to the House 
Library, Natcher cast his first vote Jan. 21, 1954-in favor of establishing an Air Force acad­emy. 
'Natcher, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, is a throwback to an older generation of lawmak­ers, rarely spending more than $10,000 on a campaign and driving by himself around Kentucky's mostly rural Second District, where Abraham Lincoln was born. 
The end came on a simple procedural vote that opened the House session Thursday. 
According to the House li­brary, Natcher placed his first vote on Jan. 21, 1954 -in fa­vor of establishing an Air Force academy. 
His last four votes on Wednesday were his most diffi­cult, with the frail octogenari­an, suffering from intestinal and other ailments, being wheeled onto the House floor on a hospital gurney, complete with oxygen and intravenous tubes. 
The day before, House lead­ers had agreed to suspend all legislative action at Natcher's request so the streak could be maintained. 
Natcher himself has advised new members against trying to emulate him. "When you've been here as long as I have and never missed a day or vote, it's right around your neck," he once said. 
Often it wasn't easy. His wife, Virginia, died in 1991 after 53 years of marriage. When she was very sick, he routinely flew home to be with her and then back to Washington the next day, day after day, in order to hold onto his record. Voting even kept him from making an Friday, March 4, 1994 

Cameroon threatened in dispute over land, pride 
By MARK FRITZ 
Associated Press 
ABIDJAN 
It's about colonial borders callously drawn, wounded na­tional pride, and dangerous domestic problems that just might need a foreign distrac­tion. It's also about oil. 
An eyeball-to-eyeball border dispute between Nigeria, a main supplier of U.S. petrole­um, and smaller, weaker Cameroon has reached the point where top diplomats are talking undiplomatically about going to war. 
France upped the ante on Sunday by dispatching a token contingent of two Puma attack helicopters and 15 soldiers to Cameroon, its former colony. Nigeria dubbed the move a bla­tant provocation toward com­bat. 
"One is beginning to think that something actually could happen," said Ken Petrie, a for­mer British naval attache to Nigeria from 1987-90 and now an analyst for the International Institute of Strategic Studies in London. 
At the heart of the dispute is the Bakassi peninsula. Nigeria and Cameroon both lay claim to the slip of land that juts from the border of both countries into the oil-rich waters Gulf of Guinea. 
Nigeria claimed Cameroonian troops raided Nigerian fishing villages in December, killing six fishermen. 
Nigeria responded by send­ing in 1,500 troops, and both sides clashed briefly in February. Cameroon claimed 
The neighbors have argued

appearance when President 
over their oil-rich border and

Carter visited his district in 
the waters around it for years,

1979. 
but in every instance of threat­


ened military action the situa­tion was defused by diplomacy, which has been noticeably lack­ing this time. 
"No matter how long the cri­sis takes, at the end of it all Cameroon will lose, I assure you," Nigeria's Foreign Minister Baba Gana Kingibe said Wednesday. 
So far, the biggest impact has been to inflame grassroots pas­sions in Nigeria, where the population had become cynical and morose because of the iron-fisted assault on democ­racy by Gen. Sani Abacha, who took power in a November coup. 
Petrie said Abacha may be trying to unite a fractured mili­tary elite and save his own skin. 
Many top officers were upset that Abacha forced out his slightly less dictatorial prede­cessor, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida. 
"It could be the classic thing: You have problems internally, you look externally so you have something to focus the public attention on," Petrie said. 
It seems to have worked. Nigeria's media, which nor­mally jab at the authoritarian government with relish, have rallied around the Nigerian flag. 
Nigerian historian Jide Oke said he has no doubt that Nigeria's saber rattling is for domestic consumption and "appeasing the Nigerian audi­ence, which is clearly in favor of a military offensive against Cameroon." 
Cameroon President Paul Biya has been taking an almost equally hard line. His country is bankrupt and many civil ser­vants often go without pay­checks. The country is fre­quently paralyzed by strikes. 



WEDDINGS 
IN THE BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
~eservations for weddings in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and Log Chapel for the year 199 5 will be opened on the first Monday of March in 1994 (March 7, 1994) from 8:00 AM until 4:30 PM at 
219..631.. 7512 


This is the Parish Office telephone number and while most weddings are celebrated in the Basilica, canonical permission and scheduling takes place through Sacred Heart Parish. 
ALL RESERVATIONS NEED TO BE MADE BY PHONE 
---------~----~--------------~-----~---------------......-----,-~-------------~~----........... 
~ 
Friday, March 4, 1994 

Firm received cleanup contracts 
By RICHARD KEIL According to the billing rejected several small charges Associated Press records, Rose lawyers have as excessive, the records show. charged taxpayers between $75 One case involved the failure WASHINGTON per hour for junior associates' of First Savings of Arkansas, for 
The Rose Law Firm, where work to $140 an hour for work which the Rose firm estimated Hillary Rodham Clinton used to by senior partners. its work would cost $173,400. work. has received 22 govern­The rates are modest when According to the records, the ment contracts in savings and measured against billings from RTC rejected nearly $1,400 in loan cases since 1989, reaping firms in bigger cities such as billings including $490 for well over $1 million, according New York, where hourly fees "Travel at Full Rate," $222 for to billing records examined by _can to $200 and higher. "unauthorized fees," $215 in The Associated Press. The firm's most lucrative "Inappropriate Attorney 
The S&L cleanup contracts government deal came in 1989 Services," $200 in fees for in­include one involving a failed when the FDIC hired Hubbell to complete documentation, $140 thrift now at the center of a represent the government in a in duplicate billings from differ­special prosecutor's investiga­lawsuit involving Madison ent attorneys for the same tion into the first family's busi­Guaranty Savings and Loan, a work, $110 in excess paralegal ness dealings. failed Arkansas thrift that has costs and $16.26 in miscella­
The law firm's work so far engulfed President Clinton in neous expenses. has yielded at least $1.27 mil­controversy. The last item rejected was a lion, the records show. And if it Rose was hired to sue mere 20-cent copying fee, the is paid the full amount budget­Madison's former accountants records show. ed for its remaining cases, the for negligence. Hubbell settled In another case involving the firm stands to make at least an the $10 million claim for $1 failed American Horne S&L additional $600,000. million; his work earned the Association, the RTC rejected 
The work awarded to the firm some $400,000. about $300 in charges, most for Little Rock firm, one of Throughout the Whitewater travel expenses. Arkansas' oldest and most affair, the Rose firm has been It is not unusual for the gov­prestigious, has generally in­under an intense spotlight. ernment to disallow some volved helping regulators pur­The latest twist carne this billings when contracting with sue thrift officers and others week when Hubbell acknowl­private firms. they believe responsible for edged he recently was ques­The records also show that S&L failures in Arkansas. tioned by the firm about certain when Hubbell worked for the 
All but one of the contracts billings for his work, including government, he charged $140 has come from the Resolution one involving the RTC. an hour. His normal rate at the Trust Corp., the agency A published report said the time was $185, the records Congress created to take over firm was trying to determine said. the S&L cleanup in 1990 from whether its former senior part­The $140 hourly figure is the the Federal Deposit Insurance ner had overcharged clients or same charged by other senior Corp. billed the firm for personal ex­Rose partners who have 
Most cases were handled by penses. Hubbell denied any worked with the RTC. lawyers other than the firm's wrongdoing and said he was including attorney Richard "Famous Four" -Mrs. Clinton, helping the firm locate docu­Donovan, who is the firm's cur­Associate Attorney General mentation to back up his rent liaison for S&L work. Webster Hubbell, the late charges. Late last year, it was deputy White House counsel The billing records show revealed that prior to Rose's Vincent Foster and White Hubbell was listed as the super­work for the government in House lawyer William Kennedy. vising lawyer in three of the 1989. the firm, including Mrs. All followed Bill Clinton to Rose cases. In two, the RTC Clinton, had done work for Washington. questioned Rose's billings and Madison S&L. 

New welfare plan requires work 
Happy 21st 

By JENNIFER DIXON "work for wages," is tougher administration official, who in­Associated Press than more traditional work sisted on anonymity, said

BirthdayJen! 
programs for welfare recipi­Thursday. WASHINGTON ents, which require them to A plan to translate the presi­Young mothers still on wel­perform a community service dent's campaign promises to
Kick some••• 
fare after two years would lose job in exchange for their "end welfare as we know it" is their monthly grant and be re­monthly benefits. gradually taking shape, with quired to work for paychecks "A defining feature of this the work program the latest el­under a plan drafted by approach is they are not guar­ement to be settled by a 32­
Love, President Clinton's welfare re­anteed anything if they don't rnernber group of administra­form task force. Those who show up for the work assign­tion officials. 
Bridget, Cathie, failed to show up on the job ment, at the hours specified. The task force has also de­wouldn't get paid. They do not get paid for the cided to aim its efforts to edu­The group's approach, called hours they miss," a senior cate, train and find jobs for sin­
Kristen, and Patty 
gle parents on welfare at about one-fourth of the welfare popu­lation: the youngest mothers
~----------~~~~----------,
I IAI ~ 'fl• CAMPUS SHOPPES
kl s .I 

and most recent applicants. 
I rree y reCIQ ,.f, . ~ I
1837 So. Bend Ave. 

The two-year time limit
1 ~~soc c "" ·.. SOUTH BEND 1 
would affect about 1.2 million
o1 Large up , . · ~ 271-9540
1 1 
parents, mostly mothers born in 1972 or later, out of the 4.5
: Frozen Yogurt" ~ : 
million adult recipients on Aid
1 Offer Expires 3/1 1/94. Limit one coupon per customer. 1 to Families with DependentNot valid with any other promotion or coupon. .J 
Children.
L 


ATTENTION JUNIORS 
interested in the 

Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application proces~ on 
Tuesday, March 15, 1994 6:30p.m. 101 Law School 
Ifyou are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 

~--------------·---------------------------------~----------,-------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------.-----. 
page6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 4, 1994 


Middle East peace talks extended U.N. officials appeal for 
American released from year of Colombian captivity 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Eager to avert a total break­down of Middle East peace talks, the Clinton administra­tion extended a respectful hearing Thursday to PLO envoys. T h e Palestinians w e r e demanding· the disarm­ing of Jews 

on the West Vasser Arafat 
Bank and Gaza and the deployment of a 
U.N. ·force to enhance Palestinians' security. 
Riding on the outcome of the talks Nabil Shaath and his dele­gations were having here over two days was the 28-month Mideast peace process. Not only has PLO Chairman Vasser Arafat delayed responding to President Clinton's invitation to send negotiators here to con­clude a self-rule agreement but Syria, Jordan and Lebanon have indefinitely interrupted their talks with Israel. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher has tried to coax Arafat to comply by telephon­ing him three times since a Jewish extremist killed Muslims at prayer last Friday in Hebron, heaped praise on the PLO leader, sternly demanded Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin act swiftly on measures approved by his Cabinet to re­strain radical settlers and hint­ed he might support some 
By ANDREW SELSKY 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia 
Leftist rebels released an American gold miner to a priest and a Red Cross delegate after holding him in captivity for a year, authorities said Thursday. 
Louis Manning was handed over Wednesday by four rebels in a jungle region of Choco 




Yeltsin warns hostile opponents 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
President Boris Yeltsin sought to shore up his hold on power by appointing a new in­ternal security chief on Thursday and 
warning his hard-line opponents that they will return to prison if they resume their hostile poli­tics. 1 

The release Boris Yeltsin of the sus­pected ringleaders of October's armed rebellion was seen as a serious political setback for Yeltsin. He repeated his warn­ing to the men freed on Saturday. 
"If those amnestied ... start any activities threatening Russia's security, they will again be arrested in accor­dance with the law," Yeltsin told a meeting of Russia's Security Council. 
Yeltsin's aides tried unsuc­cessfully to block the amnesty granted by parliament. Those released include former par­liament speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov and former Vice President Alexander Rutskoi, state in western Colombia, said age and hometown were not the Rev. Guillermo Vega, the immediately available, but Vega priest who participated in the said Manning appeared to be in release. his 50s and was apparently was 

A message purportedly from from Texas. the National Liberation Army, "Manning seemed to have the group that abducted been somewhat affected by his Manning, was faxed to local experience," Vega said in a media this week, threatening to telephone interview from kidnap more Americans. Quibdo, the provincial capital. 
Manning was abducted on "He was very quiet. He did say Feb. 22, 1993, Vega said. His he had to walk a lot during his 
slowly more soldiers in Sarajevo 
By ROBERT REID 
AssociatedPress 
SARAJEVO 
French peacekeepers fired a warning burst from a machine gun Thursday to quiet another truce violation along the Sarajevo front, and U.N. offi­cials appealed for nearly 11,000 more soldiers. 
Yasushi Akashi, chief of the 
U.N. mission in former Yugoslavia, said the troops are needed to secure truces be­tween Serbs and the Muslim­led government in Sarajevo and between Croats and Muslims in central and southwestern Bosnia. 
He said both cease-fires gen­erally were holding but ex­pressed concern about increas­ing violations. 
"We very much need not only the full compliance by the parties of the agreements they have already accepted or reached, but also we ... need additional resources, additional personnel," he said in Zagreb, Croatia. 
Akashi said he needed 4,600 more soldiers for Sarajevo and 6,050 for the rest of Bosnia.

rnation presence tem­Im]plementetd in to create That would nearly double theporarily in the territories. "new realities" in the territo­
number of peacekeepers in

"They need to see a different ries. 
Bosnia.
future," Christopher told 
With the United States

Congress on Wednesday. And that would mean Arafat 
declining to commit troops

But, above all, Christopher accepting Clinton's invitation 
without an overall peace

has insisted that the agreement and sending negotiators to accord, and Britain, France and with Israel to establish self-rule work with Israel -and defer­Canada reluctant to send morefor Palestinians in Jericho and ring some PLO demands to fu­troops, it was unclear whereGaza must be completed and ture talks. 
Akashi might get additional 
accused of leading the lawmak­ers who refused Yeltsin's or­ders to disband last September. 
The standoff spilled into street violence, and Yeltsin fi­nally defeated the legislators with tanks and troops. At least 140 people died in the Oct. 3-4 bloodshed. 
Rutskoi has pledged to work for civil peace and accord, and Khasbulatov said in a newspa­per interview· published Thursday that he had no im­mediate plans to return to poli­tics. 
But he told the hard-line Pravda newspaper that the politicians now in power are "people absolutely deprived of morals, long discredited by cor­ruption and lack of ability to run a state." He said they must not only leave the government but disappear into "political oblivion." 
"The civil war in our country is already taking place ... and it will continue as long as Yeltsin is in power," Khasbulatov said. 
Yegor Gaidar, who drafted Yeltsin's market reforms and left the Cabinet last month, called on reformers to rally around the president. 
"It's time for resolute ac­tions. The criminals have been given amnesty. Now it's neces­sary to protect Russia from them," Gaidar wrote in the daily Izvestia. 
Yeltsin, as if to stress the se­riousness of his warning, an­nounced the appointment of longtime ally Sergei Stepashin as the new head of the Federal Counterintelligence Service. 
Stepashin replaces Nikolai Golushko, who was ousted for failing to block the release of the hard-liners. 
Stepashin, 42, headed the influential defense and security committee in the previous par­liament and sided with Yeltsin in the battle with hard-liners. He was appointed deputy secu­rity minister shortly before Yeltsin moved to disband the old parliament. 
Yeltsin reorganized the Security Ministry in December, creating the current Federal Counterintelligence Service. Golushko, a former KGB gen­eral, stayed on as head of the new agency. 
There are signs that Yeltsin is being overshadowed by his con­servative prime minister, Viktor Chernomyrdin. 
For the first time in 18 months, Chernomyrdin topped Yeltsin in a monthly list of Russia's 100 most influential politicians, compiled by 50 political experts and journalists for the newspaper Nezavisimaya Gazeta. 

Hey Trish Genovese! 
Is this what you ,lllook like the day after your 2Jst? 
Happy Birthday! 
Love, Wendy, Ellen, Jen &Theresa 

is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Applicants should be looking for a great opportunity to gain valuable office and sales experience. Applicants should have strong self-motivation, creativity, and an interest in marketing and business. Anyone interested should submit a 1-2 page resume to Eric Lorge by 5 p.m. Tuesday, March 15'h in the advertising office, 3'd floor LaFortune. For more information, contact Eric at 634-1179 or 631-8840. 
peacekeepers. 
The U.N. mission's military chief, Gen. Jean Cot of France, said reinforcements were need­ed immediately to avoid "losing what has been done." 
Cot had harsh words for the 
U.S. decision not to commit ground troops unless the Bosnian factions work out a peace settlement. That policy is "not very courageous," he said. 
The United States does have a large contingent of warplanes in the NATO force that patrols Bosnia's skies. Two U.S. F-16 fighter jets shot down four Serb warplanes that U.N. officials said bombed a Bosnian gov­ernment arms factory Monday about 45 miles northwest of Sarajevo. 
A NATO threat to use war­planes to bomb Serb artillery around Sarajevo ended the shelling of the besieged capital by forcing the Serbs to remove their tanks, howitzers and mor­tars. 
The ultimatum on Sarajevo bolstered a U.N.-mediated truce that has generally held for three weeks, the longest in the city in nearly two years of siege. 
A U.N. spokesman, Maj. Jose Labandeira, said Serb troops opened fire with small arms on government troops at the Jewish Cemetery in downtown Sarajevo early Thursday. French peacekeepers in the area then fired a warning vol­ley of machine-gun fire. 
captivity.'' 
Manning, who was bearded and had long hair, appeared to be in good health, but was slightly underweight, Vega said. 
Police said the release oc­curred near the village of Tutunendo, 180 miles west of Bogota. 
Only Vega, the Red Cross del­egate, a driver and a guide were present when the four armed rebels handed Manning over. Government officials had been told of the pending release and kept troops from the area for the handover, Vega said. 
During the 10-minute han­dover, the rebels said they were looking for solutions to social injustice and education and health problems for poor Colombians, Vega said. 






BUSINESS 
Friday, March 4, 1994 Page 7 
Clinton reimposes tough trade law aimed at Japan 
he refused to reveal during a morning appearance before government executives what he told Hosokawa, saying only that Kantor would brief on the mat­ter later. 
Other nations, especially Japan, complained bitterly about the Super 301 law, say­ing it allowed the United States to bully them into making trade concessions under threat of punitive tariffs. 
But the law has strong back­ers in Congress. Two weeks ago, Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., chairman of the Senate Finance subcommittee that handles trade matters, introduced legis­lation to reimpose Super 301, saying that while it was in effect it had been "tremendous­ly successful." 
Clinton, talking about his phone call to Hosokawa, said that the discussions was "con­sistent with the tone that we've established in our relationship. But it was one that I had to have today. We'll have an announcement about that later today." 
The Bush administration, which did not like having its hands tied by the strict dead­lines set in the law, used it re­luctantly to open Japanese markets in the area of super­computers, forest products and satellites. It also succeeded in eliminating certain trade barri­ers in Brazil. 
Kantor left no doubt Wednes­day that the administration clearly favored reviving the ex­pired Super 301 provisions. He noted that Clinton repeatedly has voiced his support for the lapsed law, dating back to his campaign for the presidency. 
Kantor told the House For­eign Affairs Committee that some decisions had been made and announcements would come "in the near future." 
Last month the administra­tion announced proposed sanc­tions against Japan in a dispute with Motorola over gaining ac­cess to the cellular telephone market. 
The thre,at of sanctions in that case, Kantor said, prodded Japanese negotiators to step up their efforts to resolve the dis­pute before mid-March, when the administration is scheduled to publish a list of Japanese products upon which it could impose retaliatory tariffs. 
But Kantor said that in the broader dispute involving the failed "framework" talks the Japanese so far have produced no new offers to break the deadlock. 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton today signed an executive order re­viving the most feared weapon in the U.S. trade arsenal to keep up pressure on Japan to reduce a $59.3 billion trade gap between the two countries. 
U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor announced the president's decision to put Su­per 301 back in force at a news conference, saying it should send a clear message about America's resolve to open mar­kets. 
"Our goal is to eliminate the major trade barriers around the world which block market access for our products and services," Kantor said in a statement. 
"No one should doubt our commitment to keep moving forward, opening markets and expanding trade, as we have done since President Clinton took office," he said. 
The executive order revives the expired provisions for two years and will operate much as it did when it was in force from 1989 to 1990. 
It will allow the administra­tion to draw up a "hit list" of countries judged to have erect­ed the most egregious trade barriers against U.S. products. That list will be derived from an annual report due March 31 that surveys trade practices around the world. 
After this report is published, 
·the administration win have until Sept. 30 to select countries deemed to have the most harm­ful trade barriers. 
The administration would 
notify those countries of this preliminary designation and if the offending practices were not modified, the United States could impose punitive tariffs in an amount equal to the amount of lost sales to American com­panies. 
Clinton said he spoke today by telephone to Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa. 
He termed the call "a friend­ly, forthright" discussion, but 
Consumers call on Congress to regulate interest rates in rent-to-own industry 

By KIM I. MILLS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The "rent-to-own" industry, which leases merchandise ranging from diamond pinkie rings to refrigerators, charges interest rates that average 111 percent a year but refuses to disclose it, a 
'"'!( consumer group con­tended Thursday. 
"The rent­to-own indus­try should change its 
name to 'rip-Sen. Howard 
ping them off,"' said Bill Metzenbaum 
Wood of the 
U.S. Public Interest Research Group. He released a survey of 125 rent-to-own stores in 20 states to buttress his attack. 
The report contended that rent-to-own stores charge an­nual interest rates ranging from 35 percent to 396 per­cent. The national average bank credit card interest rate is about 17 percent, while retail stores charge between 21 per­cent and 23 percent on their charge cards, PIRG found. 
An industry spokesman said that's a false comparison. He 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
said rent-to-own stores charge rent, not interest, and the av­erage customer leases the items for three to four months. 
"In our transaction, the con­sumer never goes into debt," said Bill Keese, executive direc­tor of the Association for Pro­gressive Rental Organizations, based in Austin, Texas. "There are no delivery charges, no ser­vice charges." 
If a person terminates the contract, it does not affect his or her credit rating, he said. 
Keese and other industry rep­resentatives stood in the hall­way outside PIRG's news con­ference handing out their own press kit and offering to rebut the watchdog group's charges. 
"To compare our rental fees with cash retail prices is an in­valid comparison," Keese said. "It's a case of mixing up apples with oranges -like comparing Hertz rental cars to those of an auto dealership." 
But Wood called that compar­ison fallacious: "Hertz does not rent to own; it rents to rent." 
"If you pay more for some­thing over time than you do outright, that's interest, whether you call it that or not," he added. 
The PIRG survey looked only at the cost of renting two items commonly carried by rent-to­own stores: a 19-inch color TV set and a 14-cubic-foot refrig­erator, or the closest equiva­lents at each store. 
PIRG found, for instance, that one store in Austin, Texas, charged $74.99 a month to rent an 18-cubic-foot refrigerator. At the end of 18 months, a con­sumer would have paid $1,425 to own the appliance. But the store also sells the same refrig­erator for $375 cash. 
Buying the refrigerator on time, a consumer would pay an effective 232 percent annual interest rate, according to the report. 
Thirty-six states have laws regulating rent-to-own trans­actions, but only seven limit the amount stores can charge. 
PIRG called on Congress to pass a rent-to-own protection bill sponsored by Rep. Henry Gonzalez, D-Texas, and Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio. The legislation would subject rent-to-own interest rates to the same caps that states have in force for other retail install­ment or credit sales -typically about 20 percent, PIRG said. It also would require dealers to label merchandise, stating not only the weekly and total price, as some states now require, but the annual percentage rate and cash price. 

BUSINESS BRIEFS 

·. <· WASHINGTON ...··.·A big lii(j~Gase in aircraft sale~> ~pup-ed a sixth consec­... u~iy{) r~~l:l in u.s. factory lecllair(~a •••••.. orde!;S]t1~anuary. sustaining ...... the mapuf~ct1J.ring strength 
~· .c.c~·""••m···'thatc~Q~~~QUt 1993. · · The .~Iiimerce Department said Thursday that orders 
.,..".''""""""'''''""'. tQ$~ :,2.1., percent ~~os the new 
year began, following a revised 1A percent gain in 
March 3, 1994

lim
BD 
- 
r../  \~  
/'"'!:_  ~ ~  
/\_,/  J  
_,  


4025 3950 3875 3800 3725 3650 3575 12/1/93 1/1/94 2/1/94 3/1/94 4/1/94 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, March 4, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith MeCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .................•............ Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........................... , ..... Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accutately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Managing EdirorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

GARY CARUSO CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Dead and cats show true student body sentiments 
after the election the King ap­pointed his trusty roommate, "The H Man," to run the gov­ernment. We did not cut through any red tape, nor did we get some of the new services that were well overdue. But student government survived not one year with the King, but two! He was a sophomore when he ran for office and was re­elected the following year. 
I imagine that Hungeling will find someone to help him next year. Student government will never go away as some would like. In fact, I bet you see Hungeling car-ry the flag at football games because that's part of the job. I'd like to put in my request now for a guest flag carry ifl can! 

Finally to Bryan Corbett I suggest that you don't try to analyze why you lost for the next five years like I did. It is plain as the Dead Sea Scrolls. You did not sense the frustra­tion and resentment of the elec­torate. You came off like a bureaucrat, looked like a bu­to campus student government reaucrat, and spoke like a bu­politics, it is even more true. reaucrat, probably with little 
Student government exists to Democrats. The cycle never the administration using the campaign about cutting humor. God bless you because make life more pleasant while breaks...the time of the cycle turnout as his position of through some red tape, bring­you probably will make a great matriculating at Notre Dame. varies. power. The bootlicker then sold ing more concerts to campus, politician outside of Catholic 
During my junior year, the out the students so that he and creating a few new pro­
And God knows that task is Disneyland. Never knowing sometimes impossible ! how to run against a cat or
student body president was could get his letter of recom­grams that would help stu­President-elect David faced with a demonstration of me.ndation to Yale Law School. dents. My campaign made Jerry Garcia is only a learning Hungeling had the right mes­over 3000 students who at­His letter read, "If you take sense when the electorate experience, not the end of your 
tended a Campus Life Council anyone from Notre Dame this wanted chaos. 
sage at the right time to satisfy life. See you at the concert. 
meeting. The meeting was year, you take (him) first." After one of the other candi­
the current student mood. That 
moved to the Engineering As a result, student govern­dates challenged the King for
political atmosphere was cre­
ated by the prior years of stu­Auditorium in an attempt to ac­ment was a joke in the minds of not having a student as a run­commodate the crowd. Students the students. We could not af­ning mate, the King made a
dent representatives. When stu­
dents perceive that they have were everywhere protesting a fect his term, although as alum­fake Notre Dame ID for the cat. Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame proposed ban on kegs on cam­ni we defeated him twice for Students loved it. The King
slick, very outgoing political Class of 1973, works in 
stuff shirts in office, they want pus. (Nothing really changes the national board a few years foiled a would-be bureaucrat's Washington, D. C. as a desktopbetween students and the ad­later ! The mood of campus was attempt at political nonsense!
change. It is as inevitable as publishing specialist for the 
Democrats following ministration.) ripe for the King and his cat The election was actually over U.S. House of Representatives. Republicans in office only to be The incumbent student body that spring. with that event. His column appears every other followed again by Republicans president thanked us for our I am proud that I carried my The Observer ridiculed the Friday. 
sho~ of support. Then he told hall while the King carried all King for his proposal to abolish
followed once more by 
us that he would negotiate with the other halls. I had a good student government. However, 

DOONESBURY  
"5KATIN6 IN 7H~ Ol-YMPICS WAS At./AJAY5 MY PREAM. ITIAJA'5 7H/3 W&AM THAT Kf37TM~ {;(}IN6. 51<ATIN6H/31<& IAJA5 THAT OR/3AM~ FULF/UM&NT... " \  "71-113 ORMM OF 601N6 7V 7H~ Ot.YMP/CS IS ()(eR.! fT 15 A /JRMM C:OM/3. TRL/13.' NOW I HAVe A I?IFF!3R&NT /JREAM, A SHIN't_ NIUV IJRI:3.AM ..,"  

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
\ 
"I !JR8AM OF... Of. .. NOT (j()fN6 8166tR! TOJAit.l" 5Ht'5 PUMpe[)/ 
~ 
/ 

''IfKarl, instead of writing 
a lot about capital, had made a lot of it, it would have been much better." 
--Karl Marx's Mother 

-'· .~· ... .'* 'I 
" . ' :> '· '-" .;l 

....



ACCENT 
Friday, March 4, 1994 
page9 



The ain Attractions 
MATERIAL ISSUE CREATES HIGH· ENERGY 
ROCK UNIQUE TO BANDS WORLDWIDE 
By ROB ADAMS ing around in the backgrounr,l. Music Critic Some of the high-energy smartass rock-n-roll which 
The opening track on spawned Material Issue's brash Material Issue's latest release, debut album is featured on Freak City Soundtrack, is called "Very Good Thing;" Ellison is "Going Through Your Purse," happy to paint pictures of nos­and it is a song about just what talgic romantic scenes and then the title suggests-one fleeting even happier to kiss it all good­moment of boredom leading to bye. the temptation and the eventual By contrast, the light psyche­act of going through someone's delic and superego-fueled lyrics purse-the epitome of a which surround "I Could Use Material Issue song. You" remind of the ballad tone 
MUSIC REVIEW 
Material Issue's finest 'Ellison is happy to songcrafting ability has to do paint pictures of with taking a single subtle ele­
nostalgic romantic 
ment out of romance and ex­ploiting it to a point where it scenes and then even could ruin a whole relationship. 
happier to kiss it all 
Besides its ingenious idea, "Going Through Your Purse" good-bye.' shines in its brisk drum beat, the blistering guitar solos, ex­
Rob Adams on Materia/Issue

cellent placement of back­ground lyrics, and Jim Ellison's curiosity, flowing through his unique vocal style. in Destination Universe. 
It seems as if he is always in Ellison's notes reach new some kind of rock musical: the heights boosted by the sappy spotlight has dawned and background vocals. there's Ellison, center stage, Material Issue is a band who, singing to the audience, hoping fortunately, does not seem to that they'll understand. worry about the "ghosts of al­
Ellison formed Material Issue bums past" as it continues to 
in 1987 with schoolmate Ted create a combination of vocals, Asani on bass and local drum­themes, and rock unique to mer Mike Zelenko on skins. bands all over the world. After a late '87 EP and a 1989 seven-inch, both of which re­ceived substantial critical ac­WIN IT BEFORE YOU claim, 1991's International Pop 
CAN BUY IT: PolyGram
Overthrow was released, and 
has sent me ten extra
spawned two top five modern airplay. front as Ellison sings almosf mon form of obsession is dealt 
copies of Material
rock hits, "Valerie Loves Me" After a year on the road, in­giddily of his cynicism toward with in "The Fan," ip.spired by and "Diane." cluding a tour of Europe, vacations. the Rebecca Schaffer story; but Issue's latest release, 
In 1992, after the release of Material Issue began recording Obsession throbs throughout here Ellison sings from an ex­Freak City Soundtrack, their second full-length album, Freak City Soundtrack in 1993, "Kim the Waitress" as Ellison's pectant and demanding point of and want me to giveDestination Universe, Material recruiting the guitar firepower voice drops to a painful bari­view, in front of an almost up­
them away! Call me at
Issue enjoyed their biggest suc­of Cheap Trick's Rick Nielson, tone, on the verge of being un­beat musical setting, making cess yet, with "What Girls Guns N' Roses Gilby Clarke as able to control himself around the result even more creepy. 631-5303 startinG at Want, "a spunky tale about" well as Char of Big Hat on vio­an unwilling waitress. This is "Funny Feeling" has a be­11:00 a.m. The irst Mick Jagger's lips, Rod lin. the only song on Freak City that ginning which echoes Social ten/eople who ca l me Stewart's hair, and Keith "Echo Beach," the strongest has a female's name in the title, Distortion's "Ball and Chain," an ask for the newRichard's swagger" which track on Freak City, features which is surprisingly low for but then erupts into a feedback 
Material Issue album
topped the alternative charts some of Gilby Clarke's work: Material Issue. frenzy coupled with touches of 
get it for free. 
and even gained some top 40 rifts are brought to the fore-Oddly enough, a more com-bluesy spurts of guitar splash­

Bland characters and inconsistent plot paint portrait of the 20's in 'Reality Bites' 
ByJIMDOWD these successfully. The film at­fickleness of generation X. critical of actors who are not deem it "eerie fraternalism." Film Critic tempts to characterize a gen­Departing from this skit for­trying to act. They all aspire to There is something poignant eration, but it has no direction. mat, the second half of the film present the "normal" twenty about a bunch of friends stay­
What will happen to our gen­"Reality Bites" is a pseudo­decides to develop the triangu­year old. ing up all night drinking, talk­eration after graduation? The documentary filmed haphaz­lar romance between Winona I must single out one charac­ing, and bonding. Many of us new coming-of-age docu-drama ardly. It is a mesh of skits. Each Ryder, Ben Stiller, and Ethan ter and one performance which . can relate to the emotional "Reality Bites" paints a skit is enlightening and reveal­Hawke. This plot within a plot is fairly impressive. Hawke's depressing picture of the quali­ing when taken alone, but when just confuses the viewer. Troy is a psychologist's dream. 
Rating system ty of life for the aptly named the film discusses important I certainly hope that my gen­The character is a lazy 
4 domes-One great flick. "generation X." topics like AIDS or homo­eration does not look or act like philosopher with incredible 
You are in awe. sexuality it does not sufficiently the characters in this film. All intelligence, but no initiative. 
3 domes-Better than meat­

FILM REVIEW 
concentrate upon them. the four principles spend their He suffers from existential 
less baked ziti. 

It is a realistic portrait of the It almost seems that they felt days and nights drinking, smok­angst. He is burnt out and 
2 domes-At least the pop­

twenty-something culture it had to include these themes ing, and having sex. The char­rejects society. Hawke's cre­
corn was good.

which details the struggle of to be politically correct. The acters are realistic, yes, but ative portrayal is witty, passion­
I dome-Don't bother.

four close friends as they face film has no focus and thus tragically so. ate, and honestly moving. the frustrating job market. The seems very incoherent and None have initiative, ambi­Besides its gritty realism and film intends simultaneously to choppy. Granted, this could tion, or sound moral values. All noble intentions, there is one 
Jim Dowd rates engage, preach, and expose. have been the intent of the film­of the acting leaves much to be more aspect to salvage from the 
"Reality Bites" Unfortunately, it does none of maker and could symbolize the desired, but it is difficult to be flawed "Reality Bites." I will 
2 domes. 

',, ·. _..
'·;. 

,
, 
r 
• page 10 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, March 4, 1994
r 
•I ,. ' 
' 
·~ 
May spring breakers brighten the corner 

I wish Notre Dame students give students the kind of advice You may have heard that God would undergo a religious con­that they might expect from Dr. is love. We can only prove from version to the Catholic faith Ruth. what Christ did and does that it that they could take with them Father Robert Griffin A number of years ago, a is true to say that God is love. as they go on semester break. junior student came to see me Seeing pain in the face of the Why the insistence on a Bellers Ia a Bone.(y 9od after Christmas break. "When Crucified we see God's love Catholic conversion? Wouldn't my boyfriend and I started dat­revealed to us in the humanity it be just as satisfactory if stu­ing as freshmen," she began, He shared with us as a fellow dents were to become born­"we decided to postpone sexual traveller. If I recommend that agains singing, "Just A Closer intimacy until after we were students take Jesus with them
lode of the Church all the time. father & mother? say'!fhey are 
Walk With Thee"? All the married. After a while,we as they head off to their person­
The Fundamentalists decide to both gone up to the church to 
world knows what a mess noticed that everyone else was al and private Casablancas,
use the Bible as their sole rule pray." The double "'weep" rep­
Catholics are in, and any fallen­doing it; and so we asked our­where they hope their true
of faith, and they get lost in resents the chimney sweeper's 
away on campus can tell you selves,"why shouldn't we?" loves will be waiting when they
their literal interpretations. The street cry, "Sweep! Sweep!!" 
what's wrong with the Church. Push comes to shove, as the stop at the bar to have a drink,
Pentecostals borrow the Holy A recent book called How We 
I believe that's what right with saying goes; and in a short it's not that I'm wishing Him on
Spirit to enliven their rivivals, ~ tells us a great deal about 
the Church will help us survive time, this student and her them as a ball and chain for
and they end up on television as the difficult lives of the young
what's wrong with the Church. boyfriend were facing pregnan­their consciences, though it
faith-healers. The Liberals bor­English sweeps. 
"And what can be right with a cy. She and I wept together wouldn't hurt them if He were.
row the Last Supper, and are "In their early infancy, they
religion that encourages the when she told me she had He is really good company as
horrified when it starts looking are most frequently treated 
Pope to believe he's infallible in to them like a cannibal feast. with great brutality, and almost taken time out, after Christmas, an all-around hero who has matters of faith and morals, to have an abortion. The ques­proven to us that Love can be
Any religion worth its salt starved with cold and hunger;
and prays like a house on fire tion for her was, "Where do my stronger than Death, if we have
must turn out as a love story, they are thrust up narrow, and 
to Mary as the Mother of God?" boyfriend and I go from here?'' the courage to be wounded in
for the sake of the children and sometimes hot chimnies, where the diehard born-agains will other innocents. The saddest they are bruised, burned, and the service of Love. 
want to know. It's the showcase Was she hoping I'd advise her In Maine, where I grew up,
sight in all creation is the suf­almost suffocated; and when 
of the one TRUE myth of Death to seek contraceptive advice? they define a tourist as an out­
fering of children. In people's they get to puberty, become 
and Transfiguration. All I felt bound to say was: "If of-towner who shows up with a
minds, God goes on trial every particularly liable to a noisome,
I didn't invent the idea as a you continue to be sexually clean shirt and a twenty, and
time the starving babies in painful, and fatal disease." The 
lone Catholic priest. My theolo­active, you may be tempted to stays around for a week with­
Somalia and the war-wounded disease is a fatal malignancy in 
gy texts tell me: "Without the have another abortion before out changing either. If going
orphans in Bosnia are shown their private parts: "a superfi­
church and its testimony we you're a bride. You hurt each native makes you happy, I hope 
on television. In literature, God cial, ragged, ill-looking sore,
should know nothing of Jesus other badly when you fell from you can do it in a civilized way, 
goes on trial all the time for the with hard and rising edges. The Christ. Without the church crime of allowing children to trade call it the soot-wart..." grace." remembering that there was 
there would be no Holy The belief that everybody's ·once a Man on the Cross Who
suffer and die; in Camus' The Is it moralizing to warn stu­
Scripture. Scripture came into doing it is an American myth. became the hope of the world.
Plague. for example; in Peter dents as they head into the 
being in the church and for the De Vries Blood of the Lamb; springtime in March: "Golden Whenever I heard it said of a Now, as His brothers and sis­church. It was gathered, pre­school that there are not ters, you are part of His love
and in Dostoevsky's The lads and girls all must,/As
served and passed down by the enough virgins left on campus story. In your gentleness and
Brothers Karamazov. chimney sweepers, come to 
to make a small cherry tart, I decency, His grace is visible. Inchurch. So the truth of Jesus Dostoevsky points out that God dust"? Is it more loving to give
Christ is made present and figure there's been some wish­whatever place you have fol­
has entered the darkness by them condoms than to say,
communicated in a human and ful thinking going on among lowed the sun to, win one for
becoming a child Himself, and "Take Christ with you on your
historical way, not merely young males who only stand the Gipper by going to Mass on
dying as. the innocent One on trip"? Maybe the loving thing
through the church's ministry and wait. As a confessor for Sunday. The hearts and minds
the Cross. would be to offer them both the 
of proclamation, but through its nearly 40 years, I have a feeling of the older people will be lifted 
200 years ago, the English prophylaxis and the preaching;
whole life and activity." (from poet William Blake grieved over however, they're old enough to that Catholic chastity has not up when they see you there. Theology & Church. by Walter become an impossible dream. I Take care that you arrive back
the abuse of children in his buy their own safety nets, if 
Kasper, 1989) wish that those couples who here at the Dome all in one
songs of Experience: "A little they think they need them. I'll 
I'm more than a little in love black thing among the put them oh notice that no one insist on playing the mating piece. Remember the third with our separated brethren game would take it to the Lord Darby O'Gill and I have never
snow/Crying 'weep, 'weep in gets out of this world alive or who borrow from the treasure notes of woe!/ 'Where are thy unbroken; but I'm not going to in prayer. said we didn't love you. 
The Observer accepts dass1heds every busmess day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the None Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Need a ride to DCNA area for  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES·  Professional couple seek to adopt a  Yahweh ·  Kira, Cyndi, Cameron, Brent and  
NOTICES  spring break. Will pay gas and tolls. Call Dom at x1460  ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153  newborn baby. Will give your child all the opportunities you would want  Is it a beautiful thing? Watch out for the body mice II  others -Have a great time in South Padre! Behave, be careful, and  
for him/her, particularly love, guid- Hey, man ..... Sh'up Kir!  have a safe trip! -Bridgene  
USED TEXTBOOKS  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  ance and support. We live in the  
Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard  AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­ SECURITY SYSTEM  suburbs of an East Coast City. We  Bob and Ryan ­ 
'233-2342 /10-6M-Sat 9-3 Sun  MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ +  ALL APPLIANCES  are active people who love dogs  Bok!!l  Hi! We miss you and love you! We  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595  and children but sadly cannot bear our own children. Inquiries should  can't wait to see you I H & B  
ILOST&FO~DI  ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT  Castle Pt. Apt. for Rent Summer, 94-95 sch yr.  be forwarded to Mr. Charles Rice at 219-237-0904.  ********'*********••--··.,. ............... .. HEY X4022­ He's a nice guy but... ....  
TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP!  Fully Applianced, some furnish.  l HAVE YOUR BIKE LOCK KEY.  KD and Meesh -forget Babs and  
FOUND: Men's watch on Sat.  CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29  2 bdrm. 3 rmmates $200.00/mnth  YOU CAN'T HAVE IT BACK.  have a great spring break  
night. It has a dark brown leather  Call273-6318  SUCK IT UP!  
band and a purple face. It was  NEED A JOB FOR NEXT YEAR? II!  To Mapother, Vassallu, et. al-have  
found on the path between the Basilica and Howard. If you lost it,  Work in the Wild! Tour guide, dude ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail  FOR SALE  Student Activities is now accepting applications in all areas:  a great time in Padre! But I'm not jealous or anything.  
call Maureen at 4-2922.  maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter  Building Managers  LISA VAN ZWOLL IS SWEET;  
+ volunteer and government posi­ Sound Techs  all men want her.  Grop Grop Grop Grop -you're a  
tions available at national parks.  ROW ....... ROW ...... ROW  Stepan Managers  PLAYER.  
Gold Loop earring, lost  Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over  Have your own rowing machine  Ballroom Monitors  We love and miss you Leezer ­ Shut up Casa.  
somewhere between P.E. and  25,000 openings! Apply now for  New Concept II Rowing Ergometer  Information Desk Attendants  hope you're having fun in France!  
Juniper Road.  best positions. For more info call: 1­ $735 from the factory ...But yours for  Games Room Attendants  
Aunt Eileen is going to kill me  206-545-4804  $650 or B.O. Call4-1507  LaFortune Set Up Crew  Love, Bridgey, Farler and Margie  Mama and Dada -I'll be careful, I  
if I don't get it back.  ext. N5584  Office Assistants  promise!! I love you! -Ki-Ki  
Irish Express Clerks  
PLEASE call Tara 4-4836  Applications available at Student  
2 Bedroom Turtle Creek Townhome  Activities or LaFortune Info Desk.  I miss Bisleri  CLOSETS  
Calligrapher for wedding invitations  available for '94-95. Call Lonnie  Deadline for applying is March 4.  11!1!!!!1!1111!1!111111!111111  
Coat left in Career & Placement  -pay negotiable.  272-5622 or Reggie 4-1480.  Meeeeeeeep!  
about 1 1/2 weeks ago. Call  Call4-4507  
631-5200, ask for Katie.  PERSONAL  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ The List to Beat All Lists  Desperate for ride to FLORIDA for Spring Break. Orlando Area. Will  Howdy P  
###########################  pay gas, tolls and buy beer on  Oooooooooooooooh!!!  
HELPMEIIIII  SAW-THE TOP 151  arrival. Call Matthew x3695  
LOST: oval-rimmed glasses in a  My ride has cancelled and I  ADOPTION: Loving, financially  To my wonderful hall mates of  
blue case. Small reward -call John  desparatety need a ride to the.  secure couple longs for a newborn  1. We are driving down Mahatma  3NMC (west), SMC:  
@ 4-1722.  Washington, D.C. area. I am very  to join our family. Please call Nancy  Gandhi Road.  Kathleeeeeeeeen!l  Have a WONDERFUL Spring break  
flexible about dates and can drive  and Jerry 1-800-272-5810.  2. Did you know that 6000 people  visiting friends and family, playing  
stick/sndw. If you are looking for  can sit under the Banyan tree?  Maradeeeeeee!  softball, and whatever else you may  
someone to help pay gas and tolls,  3.Welcerm to Chiner.  be doing! I can't wait to hear all  
Found: Class ring last summer  call Sean at 1-8839 or 4-411 0.  4. Any doubts?  I'm not a newt, I'm a gekko.  about your adventures! Be careful  
along AuSable River in Grayling  ###########################  5. I just don't like dead body  Oh, I sat on something weird!  and have a great time! Don't work  
Michigan. Call Mark 517-799-4792.  BOK!!I  Ganges water dripped on me.  too hard! You have all made this  
6. The Vedas are four in number.  Elaine, have an erotic spring break.  year wonderful for me; thanks so  
anyone interested in singing, play­ 7. I'm running on 4 hours of sleep  much! Have a great break, and I  
WANTED  ing an instrument, or acting in the freshman class mass on April 1 0,  Desperate for ride to FLORIDA for  and 3 pounds of rice. 8. If you work hard, you get a  Hey Chris (True North)­I told you you'd get your name in  will see you in a little more than a weeki -B=)  
please contact Brian at x1799  Spring Break. Orlando Area. Will  boner.  the Observer someday. Would I  
pay gas, tolls and buy beer on  9. Naan, naan, Naan, naan.  lie?  Congratulations Tisha and the  
arrival. Call Matthew x3695  10. See Dick put gas in the tank,  women's basketball team for your  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­ Looking for a Used Car in Good  See Dick smoke a cigarette, see  Mike -Exactly what was in the con­ 20-6 record. -Chelle  
MENT-fisheries. Many earn  Condition. Call4-2029.  Dick blow up the bus.  tract?  
$2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­ 11. How 'bout a Ting Tao  
$6000+/rno. on fishing vessels. Many employers provide benefits.  FOR RENT  SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­ 12. Random Guy 13. I hate Tea, Tea is gross.  Remember : The #1 reason to go to Saint Mary's is ...you're only 15  Bridget B. -Just a little hi and have a great break in the warm South!  
No exp. necessary! For more info  TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  14. Dony Mahenna  minutes away from those hot men  -te (ha, ha)  
call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584  1, 2 & 3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  15. The willage is a node on the  from Bethel College.  
RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM:  NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­ nexxus of Indian ciwillsation.  -uhhh, uh huh huh. I wonder what  
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­ $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO.  786-8373  -­I had to add this one...  Unit two ... stud or dud? The jury is  it's like to SUCK.  
mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­ AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPER­ - (16.) 'Wow'  still waiting for their own 8 X 1 0  -Heh heh, hm, heh heh. I dunno,  
0219  TIES 272-6306  EK-I LOVE YOU II  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  glossy to decide.  Bun-Head ... ask SCHOLASTIC!  

Friday, March 4, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Ila loses her first game 
Jordan looked like nervous rookie 
By Associated Press 
A couple of "Ks" and an "E" for Michael Jordan. 
Baseball's most celebrated rookie took the field under game conditions for the first time since high school Thurs­day. 
He went 0-for-3 with two strikeouts and an error in an intrasquad game for the Chicago White Sox. His team lost 12-7 after his two-out error allowed the go-ahead run to score. 
"Some critics may see it as a setback, but I saw it as an op­portunity to go out and see what a baseball game is like," Jordan said after playing all six innings. 
"It was my first game and I felt nervous and out of my ele­ment. Hopefully, I'll get another chance and be a little more comfortable." 
White Sox manager Gene Lamont said Jordan would not start Friday in the exhibition opener against Texas. But La­mont said Jordan is likely to play some right field. 
It was in right field Thursday that Jordan had his worst mo­ment. With two outs, two run­ners on and the score 6-6, Joe Hall sliced a high fly into the 25 mph gusts. Jordan, instructed to play deep, ran in and toward the line, but the ball glanced off his glove, a model specially made by Wilson with his name in it. 
"That was one of those mis­takes you don't want to happen because everybody is paying at­tention to you," he said. 
Jordan struck out on off­speed pitches from rookies Rod Bolton and Scott Christman. In the first, he was robbed of a hit by outfielder Warren Newson on a diving catch in left field. 
In other games, Pittsburgh beat Minnesota 7-5, Atlanta downed the University of Geor­gia 10-5 and Kansas City de­feated Central Florida 4-2. There were 14 games sched­uled for Friday. 
Pirates 7, Twins 5 
At Bradenton, Fla., Orlando Merced had a three-run homer and a two-run double and Ale­jandro Pena got a save in his 
return from a year-long ab­sence. 
Merced, the subject of off­season trade rumors, hit a three-run homer in the third inning off loser Keith Garagozzo to give Pirates the lead for good at 4-2. He added a two-run double off Rick Aguilera in the fifth as the Pirates extended their lead to 6-3. 
Pena, who missed last sea­son after undergoing elbow surgery, retired Minnesota in order in the ninth, striking out two. 
Braves 10, Georgia 5 
At West Palm Beach, Fla., rookie Ryan Klesko had three hits and one of Atlanta's four home runs. The others were hit by rookies Mike Kelly, Troy Hughes and Javier Lopez. 
Deion Sanders, Jeff Blauser and Fred McGriff helped the Braves to a pair of first inning runs. 
Sanders walked, stole second and scored on a double by Blauser, who later scored on McGriffs groundout. 
• 1993 The Oltve Garden Restaurants. 
HERE'S ACOURSE THAT COMBINES ITALJAN AND ECONOMICS. 
ALL YOU CAN 
I 

EAT 
i 

SPAGHETTI,
j 


GARDEN SALAD,
p~ 


& BREADSTICKS
.....--·---....~~ I
...,........ 
_,.. 



$5.95
.-· 
...·· 
/1 TUESDAYS, AFTER 4 PM 
-:4 .. ~-fh-~~0.---~: I 
-=·-/ ~·~-:''"-··a,·· ,·, ··J!J:. :' ~-'"· 
~-"'' :: 7fiiis:;-'··~<~~-: ~ ~:tlillt J 

.......... ........... . 

Talk about a heavy course lead If you're a ~~otre Dame or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your ID and we'll give you all-you­con-eat spaghetti with your choice of marinara, tomato or meat sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden soiCJd and ~• 
warm garlic breadsticks. It's oil  -,,-...c.~~  
just $5.95. And you don't have  0/..•.WJ  
to be a math major to figure  ~  "  
out that that's o great deal.  __ IT:..l.IA:"J  I<! '->1·\l  f<-\"\1  

• Opposite University Park Mall, 277-6503. 
By JOHN NADEL 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Ila Borders, the Southern California College freshman who became the frrst woman to pitch in an NCAA or NAIA base­ball game, took her first loss Thursday. 
And some abuse as well. 
"Their players were very abusive," SCC spokesman Pat Guillen said. "They were call­ing Ila names and using pro­fanities throughout the game." 
Borders, an 18-year-old left­bander, pitched seven innings, allowing six hits and four runs, 

Hoops 
continued from page 16 
At the start of the second half, the Ramblers came out strong, going on a 6-0 run to pull to within six at 44-38. The Irish would answer with a 12-0 run of their own, and had their largest lead of the game when Carey Poor hit a basket to put the team up 61-40 with 11:40 to play. 
The Ramblers would continue to challenge the Irish, but in the end were unable to contend with the fired-up home team. Center Ginny Hamill helped the Ramblers' cause with 15 of her team-high 21 points in the sec­ond half, and forward Mina Babic chipped in 12 of her 18 points in the second stanza. Babic also finished with a game-high 13 rebounds, and the Ramblers, much to the dis­may of Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw, out rebounded the Irish by a 49-38 margin. 
The Irish played well as a team, with three players finish­ing in double figures in scoring. In addition to Jones' 20 point performance, Beth Morgan had 11 points, and Carey Poor con­tributed 10 in just 11 minutes of play. 
Morgan's 11 came on just 4­13 shooting, and Poor's 10 all earned. She walked two and struck out two in a 4-3 loss to UC San Diego, the eighth­ranked NCAA Division III team. 
Borders (2-1) threw 109 pitches before being relieved by Rick Homutoff to start the eighth inning in the game at SCC in nearby Costa Mesa. 
Borders said she felt good about her performance. When asked about the language used by the UC San Diego players, she said she was used to it. 
"It's been worse than it was today," she said. "I don't think it should be a gender issue. I'm just an athlete trying to get people out." 
came on a perfect 4-4 from the floor. Poor, who fmished 6-6 in the Irish's previous win against Xavier, has now hit her last 10 straight shots from the floor, putting her three baskets be­hind Irish assistant coach Karen Robinson, who holds the team record with 13 consecu­tive field goals. 
After the game, McGraw spoke fondly of her seniors' performance in the game, com­menting, 
"The senior class has gotten us to where we are right now with their leadership, attitude and work ethic. It's really emo­tional to see the team go out and play so well in their last home game." 
McGraw also was thankful for the pep band, which has played at every home game this sea­son. 
"The band has added so much atmosphere to our games all season long," said McGraw. "It was great to have them out there supporting us." 
While the regular season has come to a charming end for the Irish, the MCC tournament has yet to begin. Winning the tour­nament will ensure the team a trip to the NCAA's, and the Irish face a tough first game when they play either Butler or LaSalle in second round action this Sunday at Butler's Hinkle Fieldhouse. 


DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
\ 

VIEWS FROM THE BLUFF 
DUQUESNE'S 1994 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS: *TRANSFERABLE COURSES* *START DATES MAY THRU JULY* *ACCELERATED SESSIONS* 
Ask about our Science and Language Courses 
Registration is EASY ­by FAX, phone, mail, or in person 
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 
FOR YOUR COMPLETE SUMMER 1994 INFORMATION/APPLICATION PACKAGE 
.._____________________.. 
-~­
.----­
, 
J 
~ 
page 12 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT March 3, 1994 
t 
' .... & 
[ 
• 




SEXUALITY AND THE NoTRE DAME STUDENT 
MARCH 20: MoNK & MAURA SPEAK: WHAT Do THEY KNow? A look at sexuality in a Christian context, and how we might better understand ourselves and our relationships. Presenters: Fr. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C.; Mauro Ryan, Department ofTheology 


(3MPUS MINISTRY 

MARCH 23: NoTRE DAMe,46556:WHAT Do WE KNow? What issues and concerns does our community have about sexuality? The panel will focus on life and relationships for men and women at Notre Dame. 
Presenters: Mary Vaccaro and Fr. Steve Newton, C.S.C., rectors Notre Dame students. 
MARCH 27: •••So NowWHAT? How can we attempt to live out Christian values of sexuality and relationships in a time when these values are becoming "countercultural"? 
Presenters: Notre Dame students and recent graduates 
MARCH 20~ 23~ 27~ 1994 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM, 7-9 PM 
Each session will include: • Presentation by speakers or panel 
• Facilitated small-group discussions • Good food and drink 
Students are welcome to attend all three sessions or as many of the three as they can. 

~----­

The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Irish ready for the challenge 
By TIM SHERMAN "We'll just concentrate on our Fortunately for the Irish, the Spons Writer stuff and hopefully sharpen defense should be able to han­things up." dle the responsibility. 
Where would the Notre Dame "They don't know us (even "We have a defense to be lacrosse team be without Loftus though the Irish beat Penn St. reckoned with," Corrigan sim­Sports Center? on Sunday) and we don't know ply stated. 
Exactly where Rutgers is them," agreed coach Kevin It will be tested against SB now-without a place to play. Corrigan. "Let's just worry and, especially, Georgetown. 
Tomorrow's scheduled game about what we have to do." The Irish defeated the Hoyas at the Rutgers has been can­One of these objectives is to last season 13-10, so clearly, celed due to the blizzard that cut down on penalties. Against GU will be looking for revenge slammed the northeast. Penn St., the Irish were whis­at home. 
However, Notre Dame's tled for 11 penalties. They appear to boast the tal­games at Stony Brook (NY) on Obviously, it gave the Nittany ent necessary to knock off the Monday and at Georgetown Lions more opportunities and Irish, as they return nine next Saturday are both still on. cut down on Notre Dame's starters from a team that ended 
These two will surely provide chances. In addition, such an the season ranked #17. In fact, enough of a challenge to make abundance of flags interferes the Hoyas are very similar to up for Rutgers. with the midfielder rotation. the Irish. 
The Irish did not face the Pa­Another negative tendency "We're two pretty even pro­triots of Stony Brook last sea­the Irish showed Sunday was grams," commented Corrigan. son, nor do have the advantage impatience on offense. "We'll see if we reached a high­of a scouting report, as this is "We relied on our defense to er level. They'll be fired up, SB's first game of the year. give us the ball back," said though. We just have to make 
This is no problem for Irish Corrigan. "We wasted a lot of sure we compete. I'm good and tri-captain Randy Colley. possessions." confident." 
ByJOE VILLINSKI and epee and another two in women's Conor Power, sophomore Paul said DeCicco. Spons Writer foil. However, men's sabre receives only Capobianco, and freshman Jeremy Siek. Women's epee will also be involved in one spot, making it paramount to have a Women's foil will be lead by seniors the weekend activities, although the 
As the top fencing teams from around shot at the NCAA's. Kim Arndt, Corinne Dougherty, and event will not be officially sanctioned the midwest travel to Notre Dame this "Our sabre team has to be at their captain Didi Garcia and sophomores until the 1995 NCAA Fencing Champi­weekend for the 1994 NCAA Midwest absolute best as only one sabre team Claudette De Bruin, Mindi Kalogera, and onships. Seniors Marit Fischer and Regionals, each team has one goal in will advance to the NCAA Maria Panyi who are coming off a 9-7 Maura Gallagher, and sophomores mind. Championships," added DeCicco. victory last weekend against Ohio State. Ashley Shannon and Amy Sromek will 
That goal involves qualifying all four For the undefeated Irish, that task "Our women's and men's foil teams vie for the women's epee crown. of their weapons in the team competi­will be in capable hands with captain must meet the challenge of the other The importance of this qualifier has tion for the NCAA Championships that Chris Hajnik, Bernard Baez, and fresh­midwest schools," commented DeCicco. grown due to the cancellation of the will be held in mid-March. men Bill Lester and Jeff Wartgow spear­Rounding out the weapons is men's Penn Invitational and the absenteeism at 
"Everyone wants to qualify all four heading the sabre attack. epee where captain Greg Wozniak, last week's Ohio State meet. teams," said men's head coach Mike Going into the weekend both men's seniors Jason Arnold and Rian Girard, "The task is tough," said DeCicco. DeCicco. "It's going to be our toughest and women's foil teams look to be seed­and junior Rakesh Patel will compete. "But that's the way we like it." test this year so far," he said. ed #1 after the outstanding year both "Our men's epee team has to contend Individual competition will get under­
The spots that will be up for grabs enjoyed. The men's foil team will be with tough squads from both Wayne way tomorrow at the JACC, while the this weekend include two in men's foil comprised of juniors Stan Brunner and State and Ohio State for only two spots," team competition will be held Sunday. 
Irish squeak by with 66-64 victory 
Associated Press to 34-25 at the half. ers with 15 points for Notre Notre Dame (11-17) then Dame. Hoover finished with 14 ROSEMONT, Ill. outscored the Ramblers 17-4 to points, and Ross added 10 for 
Ryan Hoover and Keith start the second half and take a the Irish. Kurowski combined for Notre 42-38lead. Nelson led Loyola with 14 Dame's final 11 points as the The Irish went ahead 50-44 points. Vernell Brent added 12 Fighting Irish overcame an 11-midway in the second half, but and Joe Estes 11 for the Ram­point deficit and held on for a Loyola rallied to take a 51-50 blers. 
66-64 win over Loyola of lead. Illinois on Thursday. The lead exchanged hands NOTRE DAME (11-17) 
WlUiams 6·14 0·115, Cozen 2·3 0-0 4, Joe 

Loyola (8-18) dominated 
five times before Kurowski hit Ross 4·6 2·6 10, Hoover 4-8 5-6 14. Justice 0·3 'early, taking a 34-23 lead two free throws and a layup off 6-6 6, Miller 0-0 0·0 0, Admore 0-0 0·0 0, Brooks 0·0 0-0 0, Kurowski 3-9 2·2 8, Taylor 0·shortly before halftime when a steal to give Notre Dame a 1 0·0 0, Hughes 0·2 0-0 0, Jon Ross 3·5 2·4 9. 
Lamont Nelson hit his fourth 3-59-56 lead. The Irish never Totals 22·51 17·25 66. 
LOYOLA, ILL. (8-18)

pointer of the half. Notre trailed after that. 
Jenkins 4-9 0-0 8, Estes 3·11 4·7 11, 

Dame's Joe Ross cut the margin Monty Williams led all scor-Burton 2-5 0·2 5, Wilburn 3·6 0-0 7. Brent 3·5 6-9 12, Hawes 1·3 3·4 5, Kinney 0·0 0·0 0, Nelson 4·8 2·2 14, Thomas 1·3 0·2 2, Salthe 0· 



1 0·0 0. Totals 21-5115-26 64. 
Halftime-Loyola, Ill. 34, Notre Dame 25. 3-polnters-Notre Dame 5·15 Thomas 0-1). Fouled Our-None. Rebounds-Nor"' Dame 36 Qoc Ross II), Loyola. Ill. 34 Qenkins 7). Auisu-Norre Dame 13 (Hoover 7), Loyola, Ill. 12 (B...,nr 5). Total fouls-Notre Dame 21. Loyola, Ill. J9. Tcchnicai­Norr< Dame bench. A--4,833. 
r Take,

Dan Coa·ts a Coffee 
United States Senator 
~eak~ 
Costa Rica $165 Guatemala $155 Columbia $330 Kenya $709 Java $650 

''Health Care Refor1n and the American Family'' 

Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd floor

Barry Courtroom, Notre Dame Law School 
Chicago,1160610 
311-951·0585 
Call your FREE copy of the 
Student Travels maga1ine

Monday, March 14th, 19 9 4, at Noon 
--~~­
~·  
I I '  page 14 The Observer • BASEBALL Friday, March 4, 1994 1994 will present challenges for 16th-ranked baseball  
t  By JENNY MARTEN  progress one step further at the end of  

Senior Sports Writer 
the season. In the last two years, the Irish have 
The following is the final article in a come within a game of the Coll.ege jive part series on the history of Notre World Series and in 1.994 they are look­Dame baseball: ing for more. 
"We think we can go to the College 
The last six years have seen the Notre World Series and we think we can be Dame baseball program move into the one of the best teams in the country, but national spotlight under the leadership a lot of things have to fall into place," of Pat Murphy. said Murphy. 
But this national recognition came with Although the pitching staff lost three a price. heavy contributors, the winningest This price was grueling road schedules pitcher in Irish history returns. Senior against the top teams in the country just Tom Price with a 26-5 collegiate career because there was always something to record will head the 1994 mound crew. prove. The Notre Dame baseball pro­He will be assisted behind the plate by gram had to prove that it could play captain and veteran catcher Bob Lisanti. with the Miamis, the Wichita States and The rest of the pitching staff includes: the Arizona States. freshman Larry Mohs, a Toronto Blue 
And it did. Upsets came with regularity. Jays draft pick, sophomores A. J. Jones The 16th-ranked Irish program is now and Garret Carlson, and juniors Craig respected throughout the country. The Allen, Tim Kraus and Marty DeGraff. 
The Observer/Macy Hueckel 

days of being snubbed by the NCAA Backing up Lisanti behind the plate
Junior Paul Failla, a projected top-25 draft pick, will lead the Irish infield. 
tournament selection committee seem to will be another freshman snatched from 
"I had an architecture student draw a Tennessee, and travel to La Salle for a
be long gone. the draft. Dennis Twombley was a
rendition of a stadium and I hung it in four game series. 
The 1994 schedule lists more home fourth round pick of the Chicago White 
my office so every person who walked The scheduling should allow the Irish
games than away games and the spring Sox out of high school. 
into my office could see it," explained time to find a chemistry early in the year 
break trip is only six games in eight days The Irish outfield is an additional area
the Irish head coach. "I kept setting the and maybe fit in a few more practices
rather that last year's seven game-seven weakened by graduation. With Danapilis 
seed with everyone I knew and then before the home opener. 
day slate. and Hartwell gone, Murphy will be look­
finally Frank Eck was good enough to In terms of players, Notre Dame's ros-
Murphy explains the change. ing to sophomores Rowan Richards and
set forward and donate the money." ter was crippled by graduation last year. 
"We've proven to the college baseball Ryan Topham along with freshman Scott 
The Irish will inaugurate the new stadi-The Irish lost four years of wins in pitch­
world that we've been good enough to Sollmann or junior utility man Robbie 
urn on March 30 in the home opener ers AI Walania, David Sinnes and Chris
go to the fmal 20 in the last five years. Birk.
against intra-state rival, Indiana. The Michalak and two nationally competitive 
We've established ourselves as a great While the pitching staff and the outfield 
Hurricanes, who visit the stadium the hitters in Eddie Hartwell and Eric
program and what we need to do now is will be comprised of younger players,
following weekend, will be the first Danapilis. Along with hitting skills, the
make sure our scheduling isn't hurting one area of the Irish defense will be all
national powerhouse to take on Notre loss of Hartwell and Danapilis also ere­
our student athletes," said Murphy. veterans. The entire infield from last
Dame in their new surroundings. ates holes in the outfield which need to
"And that our scheduling isn't putting year's squad returns with junior Craig
After the home opener, the Irish will be filled. 
too many demands on them." DeSensi at first, senior Gre ; Layson at 
play only nine games on the road. The As for how the team is going to do this
One of the reasons Murphy was able to second, junior Paul Failla dt shortstop
rest of the 1994 home slate includes year, Murphy sounds like a broken
schedule so many home games was the and senior Matt Haas at third. All four
Midwestern Collegiate Conference rivals record with his catch-phrase, "It's not a
addition of Frank Eck Stadium to Notre played in over 47 games last year. 
along with other teams from around the rebuilding year; it's a reloading year." 
Dame's collection of state of the art ath­With this arsenal of players and a pile
midwest. The team might be inexperienced in
letic facilities. of untested freshmen potential, the
Prior to the Indiana game, Notre Dame some areas, but as usual after a few
The 3,000 seat facility is the culmina­Notre Dame baseball team hopes to find
will play three-games against both lumps early on in the season, the Irish
tion of six years of collaboration its way back into the final game of the 
Tulane and Alabama over spring break, will be ready for anyone. 
between Murphy. the athletic depart­regional, but this year, they plan on win­
participate in the College Baseball With an established program and a
ment and the alumni. Shortly after his ning.
Classic in the Seattle Kingdome includ-new stadium, Notre Dame will be look­
arrival in 1988, Murphy made an on­And with the first pitch of the 1994 sea­
ing a game against lOth-ranked ing to take the baseball program's
campus stadium one of his goals. son, the "New Tradition" begins. 
Baseball to open season 
By JENNY MARTEN the University of Alabama to Senior Spons Writer play the Crimson Tide in an­other three game series. Al­
The 16th-ranked Irish base­abama (1-4) opened its season ball team opens the 1994 sea­with a shutout win over New son with a swing through Orleans and has fallen to Tu­Louisiana and Alabama over lane, Louisiana State, McNeese spring break. State and Lamar since then. 
This weekend, Notre Dame Leading the way for the Crim­will face Tulane (6-4) in a son Tide will be sophomore three-game series. In the shortstop Brett Taft (.263, 1 
CR£Ai \VALL 
game. the Irish will face former RBI), junior first baseman Ja­
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992 AND 1993!
assistant coach Brian Cleary son Jordan (35 putouts) and 
Szechuan • Cantonese • American
who now holds the same posi­senior outfielder Brad Daggett 
Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days
tion at Tulane. (.211. 3 RBI). 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday
Oeary is excited about facing Pitchers likely to see time on 
•8.95 for Adults
his old team, but does not think the mound against the Irish are 
• 3.95 for Children under 10
his inside knowledge will be Jerry Stubbs, Joel Colgrove and 
much help. Mike MacDonald. (219) 272-7376130 Dixiewa S. (US 31 in Roseland) at Randall's lnn,South Berid, IN 
"My knowing about them doesn't translate into any­thing," said Cleary. "Obviously I know what type of game Murph plays and I'm more aware of stuff they might do, but we've still got to throw and catch and hit." 
The Green Wave hold a 9-1 advantage in the series. The last time the two teams met was on March 11, 1991 in a game which Tulane won 5-3. 
The Irish will probably face junior Todd Dyess (1-1, 21 K) on the mound in Saturday's contest and Conway (0-2) and Stewart (3-0) in the other games. At the plate, Tulane will be led by right fielder Brian Forest, designated hitter David Stewart and catcher Larry Schneider who are all hitting over .250. 
For the second weekend of spring break, the Irish travel to 

This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 

Notre Dame Hockey Home Finale! 
Tomorrow night Notre Dame vs. Bowling Green 7:00pm JACC Fieldhouse 
Baseball ..•Baseball ... Baseball. .. Baseball 
Back on campus March 30th 
Notre Dame vs. Indiana Be a part of history...Be there! 



I 
I~ 
Main & Jefferson 
Hours 
Mon-Sat 11 a.m.-llp.m. Sun 4 • 9 p.m. 

257 .. 1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery Call273 ~ 2EAT 
$ 2 offlarge pizza with Student ID 
Friday, March 4, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER 
M£/\'IWHIL€1 ON SPRINCn 'BREAK... 
Ml>-1\lRi:. VOtsN1 CII.RC. \1' I'EOI'I.E l\'1£:. OR. tl\E. \1 R£1-\lS~5 10 \3E \1\M'C.\). IT OO't:S 't\1\ll.mER \1 ~f>..N\S 1\t--\\) A.c.IS L\l::.t ?COP\.£. Dol-IT 
t<\~1\ER. . II WON"i CCll'lr\Rt<\ 
G\lR R\G\-\T \Cl '3C. \-\ERE. 


FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 
l 1\-\\\'IK 1\\11."\'S 1\LSO · , W\-1'\ sr::#l't. ?EOI'\£ \)Cli'\T I Ll¥-t.. C!>.i'S. 
~~w~~ 
H­

DAVE KELLETT 

11\11-T oR~~~s 1£)!'\i CR.f.Z.'\ '«t 0..1-11 
SIM-1.0 ~\\-I,G 
\<;,W0RC.O . \IS 
\1-\S\lLT\NG M-1.\l ... 1-lt..i! 


5& TV host 57 Kind of 

Buddhism 58 Stooge name 59 Doc-wop's­
and the Dreamers &o Passbook abbr. &1 Junior 62 Crow's-nest site 
DOWN 
1 Christmas events, sometimes 

2 Goads a hillbilly 3 --way (yield 
a return) 4 Staff 5 Dick's Veep 6 Like hung 

streamers 7 Roy of Senate 
hearings a Bust site 9Giveit­

10FromA­11 Grocery section 12-T 15 Honored players, for short 16 "Bugs" 19 Beastly 23 James Herriot, e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

28 Man-mouse link 41 Sappho's poet 46 Fifth-century 
beginning 27 Marino of Miami 30 Needle 
31 Navigator's work area 32 More than snooty 33 Vivify 
34 Substance's partner 35 Cortez quest 36 Man in the mil. 37AIIey­

friend date 42 Kind of wonder 50 Russian Johns 43 Lash of the West 52 45 and 78, e.g. 44 Wings 53 Cranky 46 Rodeo yell 54 Banned gun 47 Asylum seeker 55 Write 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
-
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

He stood there-unflinching, tall and silent as always. But as Gus soon found out, this outward calm belied the "Widowmaker's" reputation. 
If you see news happening, call the Observer 
at 
631-5323 
OF INTEREST 


DINING HALL 

..... 
ACROSS 
1 Word with 
blood or touch 5 Pouch a Dollop 
11 Fantasized 13 For 14 Bovarism 15 TV host 17 Abbr. on a 
grocery list 18 TV host 20 With rapid 
tempo 21 Golf course supply 22 Letters of 
invitation? 25 Network: Abbr. 2&0ne of the 
Chaplins 
28 With 29-Across, an anatomical part 
29 See above 31 Produce 32TV host 36 Insubstantial 38 Women's wear 
daily 39 Cicero speaking site, 
with "the" 40 Mine-car load 42 Ending for pay 45 TV's Sharkey 
etal. 46 W.W. II enlistee 49 Threefold 51 TV host 54-tree 

-, 
;---------------~-~­
SPORTS 
Friday, March 3, 1994 

Seniors lead Irish to victory and No. 1 ranking in MCC 
Jones led the attack with 20 points and seven rebounds on the night. Jones' 20 points came on 9-13 shooting, and her second half play helped hold off a pesky Loyola team. Senior point guard Kara Leary also capped off her career nicely, scoring seven points and dishing out a team high nine assists. Leary also fin­ished with five steals, and put in a strong 37 minutes of play. 
Senior guard Sherri Orlosky also had a solid game, connect­ing on four of her seven shots to finish with eight points while grabbing four rebounds and handing out three assists. Se­nior forward Kristin Knapp scored seven with four re­bounds in 20 minutes of play, and Andrea Alexander grabbed three rebounds and played her usual aggressive defense in 14 minutes of action. 
All five seniors started the game for the Irish, and came out aggressive early tm, jump­ing out to a 14-2 lead in the first four minutes of play. 
The Irish soon fell into a de­fensive lapse though, allowing the Ramblers to score eight unanswered points to narrow the gap to 14-10. 
Jones responded by hitting a bank shot on the Irish's next possession, and the Irish again pulled away from the smaller Loyola team. The lead had in­creased to 44-30 with just 17 seconds left in the half, and the Irish went into the locker room at halftime with a comfortable 44-32 lead. 
Jones and Orlosky tied for the Irish lead with eight points at the half, and the Irish as a team had forced 12 Loyola turnovers, despite being out rebounded 19-16 by a smaller Rambler team. 
see HOOPS I page 11 
By Dylan Barmmer Spons Writer 

Last night's season ending 84-75 win over Loyola at the JACC meant a lot to all five of the seniors on the team, but it may have meant the most to Tootie Jones. 
The senior center for the Irish capped off her best sea­son yet with a 20 point, seven rebound performance in leading the Irish to victory. Coming into the contest, Jones had averaged 14 points in her last four games, and had played a crucial role in the Irish's success all season long. 
"It just felt like another game for me," said Jones, who often prefers to downplay her performance. 
While it was just another day at the office for the blue­collar Jones, the game meant a great deal to Jones' father Elza, who was in attendance for the first time all season. 
"I loved it," said Mr. Jones, who made the trip from Moore, Oklahoma along with a friend to see his daugh­ter's final performance at the JACC. "I hadn't been able to make it up here all season until this game. I really enjoyed being here, and was glad to be able to see her play a great game." 
Her father's presence also meant a lot to the senior, who commented, "It meant a lot that my father was here. I was telling him that this was not our last game, howev­er. I feel we're going somewhere past the first round of the NCAA's. As long as we stick together, this team can accomplish anything." 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw no doubt would like to go even further, and she realizes the impact player she possesses in Jones. 
"She played great tonight," said McGraw. "I feel she capped off a great year with tonight's performance." 

Irish picking up momentum on way towards CCHA Play-offs 
By TIM SHERMAN Spons Writer 

The objective of the past few weeks for the Notre Dame hockey team was to get on a roll heading into the CCHA playoffs. 
Last weekend, the Irish got that momentum 
started by tying Michigan St. and trouncing Ferris 
St. That was the easy part. 

Now, the task is harder. They must continue to play the same type of hockey this weekend against University of Illinois-Chicago and Bowling Green 
~ .. 
in order to impact the CCHA championship race. 
Coach Ric Schafer, who recorded his 1OOth career victory last weekend against FSU, thinks it is quite possible for his Irish to make a run. 
"This (end of the season) is what it comes down to. We've had some success this year, but now we have a chance to make it more memorable. I'm definitely more optimistic this year." 
First, Notre Dame must deal with their seeding. Tonight's road contest with the Flames of UIC should go a long way in determining where the Irish finish. 
Currently, the Irish hold a one point advantage over the Flames for the eighth position. A win or tie in Chicago would give Notre Dame the spot. 


Jordan Jordan played in his first baseball game since high school and it showed. 
see page 11 • 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Senior goaltender Greg Louder has been a wall while earning CCHA defensive player of the week honors last week. 
Inside SPORTS 


Men's Hoops Jon Ross threw in 9 points as the Irish escaped with a 66-64 win over Loyola. 
see page 13 

"Obviously, we want to finish in the highest spot," said Schafer. "We control it right now and we want to keep it that way." 
Earlier in the season, the Irish won one and tied another against the Flames. The Irish icers know what to expect from them, but more importantly. they have a sense of each other. 
"We know each other," said Schafer. "We know what we have to do, now we need to put it togeth­er." 
This cohesiveness showed last Saturday against Ferris, as Schafer's charges pumped in eight goals, the most all season. Similar production would be more than welcome. 
Defensively, the Irish surrendered just four goals in two games, signaling a possible return to their stingy ways of earlier on in the year. 
A large part of this should be attributed to the performances of Greg Louder. The senior netmin­der earned CCHA defensive player of the week for his role in Notre Dame' success. as he boasted an impressive . 917 save percentage for the weekend. 
If the Irish continue to get these type of efforts, watch out CCHA. 
"The exciting thing is that we're capable of doing it. We've shown we can skate with anyone. And in this league, it is a given that anybody can beat anyone. We'll see what happens." 

Lacrosse The Irish hope to contin­ue their winning streak with two tough matchups this week. 
see page 13 

.w 

Human Life Alliance of Minnesota Inc. Advertising Supplement (J Copyright Human LKe Alliance of Minnesota, Inc. 1993 1994 

2 1994 Human Life Alliance Advertising Supplement 
The 
of the Matter 

The special love between a mother and baby comes straight from the heart. 
Dear Readers, 
When I found out/ was pregnant, all the rhetorical arguments flew out the window. I had always considered myself "pro-choice," when suddenly I didn'tfeel like I had any choice at all. 
This "sort of thing" wasn't supposed to happen to me. I didn't feel/ had anyone I could turn to. Those to whom I did turn offered "help" in the form of delivering me to an abortion mill. 
The consequences did not follow immediately, but when they followed, they did so like a storm crashing ashore. Four years after my abortion, I found myself looking back over a series of broken relationships with family, friends, and God. I was forty pounds heavier and desperately looking for "the right man" by sleeping with anyone who paid attention to me. 
One day I found myself unable to get out ofbed. With help,/ realized that/ suffered from a textbook case ofPost­Abortion Syndrome. I also realized that my child, who was 8 weeks along in her development when aborted, had indeed already been a fully formed human being capable offeeling the pain that I had inflicted upon her. Now I find myself in a good, healthy marriage, unable to conceive a child with the man /love. 
I often look back and wonder how my life would be different. I have missed the chance to bring that special life, created and sanctified by God, into the world. If I was not yet ready to be a parent,/ missed the chance to give the gift oflife to an adoptive couple who desperately wanted to be parents. And I can't even begin to tell you how much more I feel/ have missed. 
Abortion does not live up to the "freedom of choice" billing it gets these days. The abortion does not allow freedom, as it comes with consequences that no one ever tells you about. You are never prepared to live for the rest of your life with the knowledge of what you have done. 
Abortion has an effect on every part of your life following the pregnancy, much as giving birth to a child does. Either way, you are no longer pregnant, yet with abortion there is no "positive" to look back on. There is no "choice" in an abortion decision. It is the only option a pregnant woman has that eliminates any future "choice" for her or her child. A woman does not want an abortion like she wants a Porsche or an ice cream sundae. She wants an abortion like an animal caught in a trap wants to gnaw off its own leg to escape. The damage, in either case, is inevitable. 
J.H., Notre Dame Class of '85 

This supplement has been prepared and copyrighted by Human Life Alliance of Minnesota, Inc., 3570 Lexington Avenue North, Suite 302 • St Paul, Minnesota 55126 • (612) 484-1040. 
The War of Words ~';';{~t ·:· 
Claim: Abortion is legal, therefore, il must be right. Answer: Ifchild abuse were suddenI y declared legal by the U.S. Supreme Court, would that make it right? Would we ignore such an injustice and do nothing to protect the children? 
Claim: I have the right to "choose" to abort my baby, a woman's "right to choose!" Answer: Abraham Lincoln once said "No one has the right to choose to do what is wrong." Furthennore, the advocates who defend this "choice" are not consistent Why is it only in the case of abortion they argue that "choice" should be legal and absolute? Using the same rationale, shouldn't people have the right to "choose" to use drugs ("It's my body") or the right to "choose" to practice prostitution? Should our society allow a person to"choose" to kill another person (or have that person killed) to solve the first person's problem? 
Claim: The government should not interfere with a woman's "right" to abortion. Answer: Our Declaration of Independence declares that we have an " inalienable right to Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness." Thomas Jefferson defined government's role, "The care of human life and happiness, and not their destruction, is the frrst and only object ofgood government." Pres. Reagan, a defender of the human and civil rights of the preborn, called it "the transcendent right to life of all human beings, the right without which no other rights have any meaning." (Without life, taxation, health-care etc. are immaterial). 
Claim: lfpubUc money (tax money) is notavailable to payfor abortions "poor'' women will be denied access to abortion. They will be discriminated against. 
Answer: Are we obligated to provide cigarettes and alcohol to poor people if they cannot afford them? On the contrary, government is very explicit about which items may be purchased with food stamps. Is this considered discrimination? The same people who argue for "public" subsidies for abortions are the same ones who argue that it is a "private" decision. To quote Congressman Henry Hyde, "We have a" right" offree speech. Does this mean the government has to buy us a personal computer? A typewriter? A megaphone?" 
Claim: I am personally opposed to abortion, bull would not interfere with another's right to have an abortion nor impose my morality on others. 
Answer: Analogy --if President Lincoln and the abolitionists had bought this line of reasoning regarding the slavery issue, we could still be saddled with slavery today. Every law ever passed sets standards which reflect someone's (or a body of law-makers') morality. 
Claim: You want to ban women's "constitutional righf' to abortion. Answer: This is a "spurious" or false "right"-having no basis in the constitution. The U.S. Supreme Court claims to have discovered a "privacy" right in the "penumbra" of the Constitution ("penumbra" definition: a partly lighted area around an area of full shadow). Court decisions (Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton) are aberrations (deviations from truth) and do nothing more than grant temporary license to kill children in the womb, the most dangerous place of residence. This license is tenuous and could be over-ridden by reversal or an amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Indeed, to guarantee the pennanent freedom of the slaves and establish rights for all U.S. "persons" the 14th Amendment to the Constitution was passed. It states, ".. No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States: nor shall any state deprive any /.lJZ.lJ2.ll oflife, liberty, or property without due process oflaw; nor deny to any Jl£llQJ1. within its jurisdiction the equal protection ofthe law." (emphasis added). In Roe v. Wade the Court detennined that unborn children are !!Ql"persons" even though they have the right to inherit property and many other rights. Some states have entire sections of law outlining Crimes Against Unborn Children in which they, from conception on, are protected from negligent or willful harm or death. 
Claim: If legal abortions are banned, women will resort to back alley abortions. Answer: In 1972, the year before the Supreme Court legalized abortion, a total of39 women died from illegal abortions, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control. Fonner abortion provider Carol Everett states, "In the last 18 months I was in the business, we were completing 500 abortions monthly and killing or maiming one woman out of 500" (p.lO). If the numbers are this astounding for her four Texas clinics, it doesn't take an expert mathematician to figure out that the number of casualties happening nationwide at the over 3000 supposedly "safe" abortuaries would be in the high hundreds. 
Claim: Abortion should be legal to end a pregnancy resulting from rape or incest. Answer: It is important to remember that the child conceived in rape, or incest, is no less human than any other child. David Reardon's article, (page 8) points out that the very worst solution that can be offered to the pregnant woman at this crisis time in her life is an abortion. Abortion compounds the problem! Ifa small child were killed in the street by a negligent driver and it was laterdetennined that the child had been conceived in rape, would the driver be held less responsible? Is that child's death less tragic? 
f 
I. 
Human Ufe Alliance Advertising Supplement 1994 3 
TestYour Abortion I.Q. 
1. 
On January 22, 1973 the U.S. Supreme Court legalized abortion through which month of pregnancy? A) 3rd month; B) 4th month; C) 6th month; D) 9th month 

2. 
Since abortion was legalized in 1973 the number of preborn babies' lives extinguished by abortion is: A) 6 million; 


B) 12 million C) 30 million; D) 32 million 
3. 
Abortion is the leading cause of death in the U.S., causing what percent of total deaths? A) 21 %; B) 35%;C) 46%; D) 52% 

4. 
Although Mrican-Americans compose only 12% of the U.S. population, Black women are having what percent of the 1.6 million abortions performed each year: 


A) 16%; B) 32%; C) 35%; D) 49% 
5. 
About 10 million Black children have been aborted since abortion was legalized. This is what fraction of the present Black population in the U.S.? A) one-eighth; B) one-fifth; C) one-third; D) one-half 

6. 
Since 1960 the number of babies born out-of-wedlock has risen by what percent? A)60%; B) 105%; C) 250%; D) 419% 

7. 
In the Black community what percent­age of children are born to single mothers? 


A) 35%; B) 65%; C) 72%; D) 75% 
8. 
With the advances in medical science the number of surgical procedures which are now performed on babies in the womb is: A) over 50; B) 80; C) 90; D) over 100 

9. 
One out of every how many preborn babies is killed by abortion? A) two; 


B) three; C) four; D) six 
10.Whatpercentofabortionsperformed in the U.S. are repeat abortions? A)30%; 
B) nearly 40%; C) nearly 50%; D) 60% 
11. What percent of women who have had abortions experience suicidal tendencies? 
A) 45%; B) 60%; C) 70%; D) 75% 
12. A developing baby's heart begins to beat at: A) 21 days; B) 30 days; 
C) 45 days; D) 60 days 
13) How many Americans now have an incurable sexually transmitted disease? A)20 million; B) 36 million; C) 56 million 
14) Every year up to what number of U.S. women become infertile because of STDs? A)66,000; B)75,000; C)98,000; D)150,000 
The answers to these questions can be found on p. 9. 
Abortion is Legal During 7th, 8th and 9th Months 
In Roe v. Wade the Court allowed states to restrict abortions in the 3rd trimester "except where it is necessary... for the preservation of life or health of the mother." However, in Doe v. Bolton, the companion case to Roe, the Court defined "health" to include "all factors-physical, emotional, psychological, familial, and the woman's age -relevant to the well-being of the patient." Because of this broad definition of "health" the Court, in effect, permitted abortion-on-demand in all fifty states right up until birth for any reason! 
-·-·-----­

Chronology of a New Life 
Fertilization: The sperm joins with the ovum to form one cell. This one cell contains the complex genetic blueprint for every detail of human development-the child's sex, hair and eye color, height, skin tone etc. 
Month One: The first cell divides within several hours and then cell division continues in an orderly fashion every few hours as the small group of cells travels down the Fallopian tube to the uterus, where the uterine lining has been prepared for implantation. There are over 100 cells present when this tiny embryo reaches the uterus 7 to 10 days after fertilization. Day 20-foundations of the brain, spinal cord and nervous system are already established; day 21-the heart begins to beat in a regular fashion; day 28-the backbone, the rest of the skeleton, and muscles are forming­arms, legs, eyes and ears have begun to show. At one month old, the embryo is 10,000 times larger than the original fertilized egg-and developing rapidly. The heart is pumping increased quantities of blood through the system. The placenta forms a unique barrier that keeps the mother's blood separate, but allows food and oxygen to pass to the baby. 
Month Two: At 35 days the pre-born baby has all her fingers. Brainwaves can be detected at day 40; the brain is controlling 40 sets of muscles as well as the organs. The jaw forms including teeth buds in the gums. The eyelids seal during this time to protect the baby's developing light-sensitive eyes which will reopen in the seventh month. The stomach produces diges­tive juices and the kidneys have begun to function. The tiny human being responds to touch. By 8 weeks, the developing baby is now referred to as the fetus, a Latin word meaning "young one" or "offspring." 
Month Three: Day 63 (9 weeks): Unique fingerprints are evident and never change. The baby now sleeps, awakens and exercises her muscles by turning her head, curling her toes, and opening and closing her mouth ­often sucking her thumb. Her palm, when stroked, will make a tight fist. She breathes amniotic fluid to help develop her respiratory system. By 12 wks. all the organs and systems of her body are functioning. The only major activity from now until birth is growth -the increase in her size. 
Month Four: By the end of this month (16 weeks) the baby is 8 to 10 inches in length and weighs a half pound or more. Her ears are functioning, and there is evidence that the baby hears her mother's voice and heartbeat, as well as external noises. The umbilical cord has become an engineering marvel, transporting 300 quarts of fluids per day and completing a round­trip of fluids every 30 seconds. Because the preborn child is now larger, the mother usually begins to feel her baby's movements during this month. 
Month Five: Half the pregnancy has now passed. The baby is about 12 inches long. Ifa sound is especially loud or startling, she may jump in re­action to it Babies born at this stage of development (19 -20 weeks) are surviving at an increasing rate thanks to advances in medical technology. 
Month Six: (24 weeks): Oil and sweat glands are functioning. The baby's delicate skin is protected in the amniotic sac by a special ointment "vernix." 
Month Seven: The baby's brain has as many cells as it will have at birth. The preborn child uses the four senses of vision, hearing, taste and touch. Research has documented that she can now recognize her mother's voice. 
Month Eight: The skin begins to thicken, with a layer of fat stored underneath for insulation and nourishment Antibodies increasingly build up. The baby swallows a gallon of amniotic fluid per day, more if it is sweetened. She often hiccups. She has been urinating for several months. 
Month Nine: Toward the end of this month, the baby is ready for birth. The average duration of pregnancy is 280 days from the first day of the mother's last menstrual period, but this varies. By this time the infant's heart is pumping 300 gallons of blood per day. In response to signals from the brain the child triggers labor and birth occurs. Of the 45 generations of cell divisions before adulthood, 41 have taken place in the womb. Only four more will come -during the rest of childhood and before adolescence. In developmental terms we spend 90% of our lives in the womb. 



Pholo courteo y of Origin Films, Lid. 
20Weeks 

'V'VI f-'U~ VI II 1~11
Omaha

Pregnancy Resources (305) 665·4673 
Birthright (512) 8~4-2662
AAA Crisis Pregnancy Ctr. (402) 397-0600
Miami 
Dallas
NEW HAMPSHIRE 

Birthright (305) 371·8971 
Catholic Counseling (214) 526·2774 
Manchester
Orlando 
EIPaso

Crisis Pregnancy Center (603) 623·1122
Just Life (407) 645-2588 
Birthright (915) 533·1818
NEW JERSEY 

GEORGIA 
Houston
Atlantic City 
Atlanta 

Abortion Advice and Info. (713) 961·7500 
Birthright of Atlantic City (609) 348-6010 
Crisis Pregnancy Services (404) 881·6571 
VIRGINIA
Jersey City 

ILLINOIS 
Charlottesville
Birthright (201) 432·3000 
Chicago 

Charlottesville Preg. Ctr. (804) 979-8888
Newark

Pro-life Action League (312) 777-2900 
Williamsburg
Assoc. Catholic Charities (201) 596-3958 
Birthright (312) 233-0305 
Birthright (804) 220·3252 
Trenton

INDIANA 
WISCONSIN

Birthright of Mercer City (609) 771-9505
Fort Wayne 
Madison
NEW YORK 

Crisis Pregnancy Center (219) 422·3544 
Pregnancy Counseling Ctr. (608) 238·3211 
Albany
Gary 
Milwaukee

Birthright (518) 438-2978 
Crisis Pregnancy Center (219) 882·2720 
Affiliated Crisis Preg. Ctr. (414) 962·2212 
Buffalo
Merrillville 
River Falls 

Crisis Pregnancy Center (716) 833-7100 
Lake County Women's Ctr. (219) 769-4321 
Pregnancy Helpline (715) 425·8539 
1994 Human Life Alliance Advertising Supplement 
Legalized Abortion Based on Lies and Fraud
Life Begins at Col)ception 
Through the writings and testimony of the world-renowned geneticist, Dr. Jerome Lejeune, M.D., Ph.D., we can learn much about the intricacies of the beginning of human life. Contrary to the popular view that the tiny baby becomes more and more "developed" as the weeks of pregnancy go on, Dr. Lejeune says that the very first cell, the fertilized egg, is "the most soecialized cell under the sun." No other 
6 1994 
at the supermarket. . .it's not any longer a theory that each of us is unique. It's now a demonstration as simple as a bar code in the supermarket" Dr. Lejeune states that because of studies published within the last year we now have the scientific know­how to determine within 3 to 7 days after fertilization if the new human being is a boy or a girl. 

Norma McCorvey was the "Jane Roe" of Roe v. Wade. 
Early in 1970 Norma Mccorvey claimed that she had been gang-raped and became pregnant. Attorneys Sarah Weddington and Linda Coffee, newly graduated from the University ofTexasLaw School, needed a "client" in order to challenge Texas' 100-year old law that banned abortions. They convinced Norma that she should be seeking an abortion instead of arranging an adoption for her child. 
The case was subsequently argued all the way to the Supreme Court which resulted in legalizing abortion in all 50 states in 1973. In the meantime, the baby was born and released for adoption. In 1987, McCorvey admitted that she hadn't been gang-raped at all but the father was someone she knew and thought she loved. The story of the gang-rape was a lie. 
Human Life Alliance Advertising Supplement 


.·..~ 
.~.··.· 
·-~~-' 


' 






.· ..,. 
']·.··.·.··...
·~.' 
l 



Art l>in•t'lor, Steve Clark-Phot.ogra!Jhy, Phillip ParkPr 
Human Life Alliance Advertising Supplement 1994 7 


Twenty
Seconds 1 Before, ··~····· ·· · •.··· · 1 1 1 There 'r-·,:f· .'. ,.; .:'
\ } ~:e ' ,'It&.•.,,. ·. · . 'tr# More. ,'~l:~l~ ....· 
I ,,. 
I I 
\ I I \ ' I 
I ~ I 
{.-II I 
~ I
t I Every Twenty Seconds ' ; ; Allie Is Taken By Abortion... .. That's A l.Dt Of l.Dve l.Dst 

8 1994 Human Life Alliance Advertising Supplement 
Birthmother Opts for Adoption ... The Loving Alternative 
It was the beginning of my junior year in high school. I was excited, looking forward to another year of diving, gymnastics and track. But this excitement quickly came to an end when I realized I was pregnant. 
When the pregnancy was confirmed, my mind went racing. It wasn't enough to just say that I was scared -I was terrified! The idea or having an abortion was JKIU. a consideration ror me. I could not live with the realization that I was responsible ror taking the lire or my child -a death because or my actions. 
My first instincts told me that I needed to raise my child on my own. I knew I could love and care for a child, but when I stopped thinking about myself, and thought about what was best for my child, I knew adoption was the rightdecision. I was sixteen at the time. I wanted to go back to school for my senior year and wanted to participate fully, in sports etc. I wanted to go on to college. 
I knew I could not do all of this and raise a child at the same time. I did not want to have to live with my parents indefmitely and depend on them for everything. I did not want them to be thrust into the role of prime care-givers for my child. It just would not be fair for any of us, for them, myself or the baby. I knew that placing my child for adoption would be the right thing to do, the loving alternative! 
The adoption procedure I opted for is not your ordinary plan. I chose to do an inde­pendent open adoption. Through this proc­ess I was able to select from among the pro­spective adoptive parents. I had the oppor­tunity to establish a personal relationship with them as well as to develop a lasting friendship. The more I got to know them the more excited I was about placing my baby with this couple. They had so much love and 
;;{'' 

18 week-old baby developing In the womb. 

Lisa 0. 
security to offer my child. They were there with me in the hospital when my son was born. Their video camcorder ran non-stop. 
I will always treasure the three days I spent in the hospital with my son. Handing him over to his new parents was by no means easy, but I knew in my heart that this was the right decision for both of us. 
Many tears were shed throughout the nine months and during the hospital stay. But, they were not all tears of sadness. I miss my son very much. I think about him every day and a smile comes to my face. I thank the Lord that He led me to two such special people to be adoptive parents for my child. 
It has been several years since my son was born. He now has an adoptive sister. I keep in contact with the family through letters and pictures. I can't begin to explain the feelings of pride and contentment that I experience when I see the smile on his face. 
I am now a junior in college majoring in paralegal studies. Relinquishing my son was the hardest decsion I will ever have to make but I'm more confident than ever that it was the right one. While in the hospital I received a card which read, "Some people come into our lives, leave footprints on our hearts, and we are never the same." This is so true! Testimony by Lisa 0. of Minnesota. (Printed with permission) 
Every year over two million requests ror adoption go unsatisfied. 
If he is not alive, why is he growing? 
If he is not a human being, what kind ofbeing is he? 
If he is not a child, why is he sucking his thumb? 
If he is a living, human child, why is it legal to kill him? 
The Abortion Experiencefor Victims of 
Rape and Incest 
by David C. Reardon 
Rape and incest are very emotional topics. They often elicit in the general populace feelings of revulsion; people draw back from the issue of rape and incest, even from the victims ofrape and incest People don't know how to handle a person who is in that much pain. There is no quick fix.... 
Some people who are otherwise very pro­life will condone abortion in rape and in­cest cases because they don't know what else to offer. And they wiU accept it as a rare case. This pro-life difficulty in de­fending the unborn even in rape and in­cest cases is largely due to ignorance because the facts, as I have found them, show that the victim's needs are not beingserved by abortion. In fact, rape and incest victims actually sufferconsiderably from the abortion. 
The facts suggest that only a minority of rape and incest victims actually choose abortion1-soright there, one should pause and reflect. Abortion is not usually chosen as the immediate solution by rape and in­cest victims but that is the prevailing belief of the general population. A woman has been raped and made pregnant "Oh, she's got to have an abortion." No one has studied the rape and incest victims' needs; abortion is presumed to ftll their needs. 
Kathleen DeZeeuw states, "Having lived through rape, and also having raised a child "conceived in rape," I feel person­aUy insulted and assaulted every time I hearthatabortionshouldbe legal because ofrape and incest. I feel that we're being used by pro-abortionists to further the abortion issue, even though we've notbeen asked to teU our side." 
The children conceived through sexual assault also have a voice which deserves to he heard. Julie Makimaa, conceived by an act of rape, works diligently against abor­tion. She believes every life has a value beyond measure, a purpose which only time can reveal. Not ashamed ofher origin, Julie proudly proclaims: "It doesn't matter how I began. What matters is who I will become." 
Abortion Adds to the Pain of Rape 
Various studies and my own research in­dicate that rape and incest victims fall into the high-risk category of aborters, and the existence or rape or incest is actually a contradication ror abortion. Jackie Bakker, whose testimony is in my book,2 says, "I soon discovered that the aftermath of my abortion continued a long time after the memory of my rape had faded. I felt empty and horrible. Nobody told me about the emptiness and pain I would feel deep within causing nightmares and deep de­pressions. They had all told me that after the abortion I could continue with my life as if nothing had happened." This is the same story we hear from a lot of aborted women. But for the rape and incest victim it is an especially keen story, because they have been told, "In your situation that is the only thing you can do." And they have been betrayed by that advice. 
VIctims Gave Reasons to Forego Abortion 
Perhaps the best study was done by Dr. Sandra Mahkom, published in Psychologi­cal Aspects ofAbortion6 Dr. Mahkorn was an experienced rape counselor who, in 1979, identified 37 pregnant rape victims who were treated by a social welfare agency. Of these 37, only five chose to have an abor­tion. Of the 28 who gave birth, 17 chose adoption and 3 kept the child themselves; for the remaining eight, research was un­able to determine where the child was placed. 
Several reasons were givenfor not abort­ing. First, several women felt that abor­tion was another act ofviolence-that it was immoral or murder. One said she would only suffer more mental anguish from taking the life of a baby. Second, some sawan intrinsic meaning orpurpose to the child. Somehow this child was foisted into their lives but, on the other hand, they sensed some sort of hidden purpose behind it. And although notre­sponsible for having brought the child into being, it had happened, and the con­sequences could be lived with. Third, at a subconscious level, the rape victim feels that ifshe can get through the pregnancy she will have conqueredthe rape. Outlast­ingpregnancy shows she is better than the rapist who brutalized her. Giving birth, then, is the way rape victims seek to re­claim their self-esteem. It is a totally self­less act, a generous act, especially in light of the pressure to abort. It is a way for them to display theircourage and strength to survive even a rape. 
In her study, Mahkorn found that feelings or issues relating to the rape experience were the primary concern for most of the pregnant rape victims-not pregnancy. While 19% -a significant number ­placed primary emphasis on their need to confront their feelings about the pregnancy, including feelings of resentment and hostil­ity towards the unborn child, the primary difficulty they experienced witl1 the rape pregnancy was pressure from other people who saw the pregnancy as a blot to be elimi­nated. Family and friends just weren't sup­portive of the woman's choice to bear the child. 
Dr. Mahkorn also found that, in the group who carried their pregnancies to term, none, at the end of pregnancy, wished she had decided on an abortion. Abortion therefore inhibits the healing to the rape victim and reinforces negative attitudes. 
Abortion Reinforces Women's Powerlessness 
[A]nother example from my book is Va­nessa Landry, another rape victim who said," I dido 't really want to have the abor­tion. I have always been against abortion all my life. People think that whenever anyone is raped, they have to have an abor­tion. My social worker just kept telling me all kinds of things to encourage me to have theabortion. Theydidn'tgivemeanyother option except to abort. They said I was just another minority bringing a child into the world and there were too many already.'"~ Here is a woman who is being victimized not only because she is a rape victim, but also because she is black and a minority and she has a low income. That is one of the stories that upsets me the most 
Childbirth can be a victory. For the majority ofpregnant rape victims who wisely choose to forego abortion, child­birth is the choice oftriumph overrape. It is achoice that says, 11Rape will notdictate 
Rape and Incest -coot on p.l0 

Human Life Alliance Advertising Supplement 1994 9 
WHICH IS MORE 
VALUABLE? 



If you chose the unborn child, sorry you're wrong--at least according to the law of the land, U.S. Code, Title 16, Section 668, the eagle takes precedence. A person who kills, damages, transports a bald eagle, its egg, or nest is subject to a fme of up to $5,000.00 or imprisonment for up to one year or both (first offense). Whereas, not only is there no penalty for aborting an unborn child, doctors get paid exorbitant fees for destroying the child in the womb. 
Does something seem wrong to you? It is! Ifyou are troubled by this injustice help us save the unborn babies and educate the public to the harsh realities of abortion. Ifyou or someone you know is facing a crisis pregnancy, we'd like to help. We can refer you for ~·pecific needs. All human life is sacred! There are many alternatives to abortion! 
See page 5 for Individuals and organizations who will assist you. 
Answers to Abortion I.Q. Quiz 
1) D; 2) C; 3) C; 4) B; 5) C; 6) D; 7) B; 8) D; 9) B; 10) C; 11) B; 12) A; 13) C (one in five); 14) D 
The Declaration of Independence begins with: "We hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable Rights, among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness..." 
Human Life Alliance ofMinnesota, Inc. (612) 4~4-1040 
Human Ufe Alliance of Minnesota, Inc. is a non-profit, non-denominational volunteer organiza­tion committed to the intrinsic value of human life. HLA is dedicated to advancing true justice by protection of ALL Human Life, whatever the age, race, sex, physical condition or economic status. The purpose of HLA is to provide incentives to action through education, political awareness and promotion of alternatives to violence in order to create a society in which all Human Life is held sacred. 
HLA NEEDS YOUR SUPPORT AND ENCOURAGES YOUR PARTICIPATION! 
Human Life Alliance ovMIN~A,JNc.  3570 Lal..t.oa Aw•• Nortll  
s ... e301  
NIIDle:  St. Pa•l, Ml••esob 55126-1049  
AddrcD:__________________  (612) 484-1040  
City/SialefZip:_______________  
~-------­ 
__ I wmt to mike a c:onlribution to help further HLA'a pro-life dforts.  
$25.00  Gcncnl Fund  

_ SSO.OO _Education Fund (Education Fund ia tax deduc:tlble.) _$100.00 _OtherS__ _I'm new to the Pro-life Movanera -IWUit more information! _Ihave time and talera.a to ahlre. I Clnhclp wi----------------­
Abortion Techniques Described 
Suction-Aspiration: The method of abortion most commonly used for early pregnancies. The abortionist inserts a hollow plastic tube into the dilated uterus. The tube is connected to a powerful suction apparatus. The suction tears the baby's body into pieces. 
Dilitation and curettage (D and C): Similar to the suction procedure except the abortion­ist inserts a tiny hoe-like instrument into the uterus. With this, the abortionist cuts the baby into pieces and scrapes him/her out into a basin. Bleeding is usually profuse. 
Dilitation and evacuation (D and E): Used after 12 weeks. A pliers-like instrument is needed because the baby's bones are calcified, as is the skull. The abortionist inserts the instrument into the uterus, seizes a leg or other part of the body and, with a twisting motion, tears it from the baby's body. The spine must be snapped and the skull crushed in order to remove them from the womb. 
Salt poisoning (saline injection): This is used after 16 weeks. A long needle is inserted through the mother's abdomen into the baby's sac. Some fluid is removed and a strong salt solution is injected. The solution is swallowed and "breathed" and slowly poisons the baby. He/she kicks and jerks violently as he/she is literally being burned alive. 
Hysterotomy or Caesarean Section: Used mainly in the last three months of pregnancy, the womb is entered by surgery through the wall of the abdomen. The tiny baby is removed and allowed to die by neglect or direct act. 
Prostaglandin chemical abortion: This form of abortion uses chemicals, developed by the Upjohn Pharmaceutical Co., which cause the uterus to contract intensely, pushing out the developing baby. In one article, one of the complications listed with this method was "live birth." In fact, the two most "dreaded" complications for an abortionist are a dead mother or a live baby. 
Dilatation and Extraction (D and X) Late Term Abortions (The authenticity of the following information has been confirmed in an article in the American Medical Association's Newsletter, American Medical News, in the July 5, 1993 edition). 
At a Septemberl3-14, 1992 meeting of the National Abortion Federation, a trade association of abortion providers, an Ohio abortionist, Dr. Martin Haskell, described this new technique he has perfected. Unlike the D & E procedure whereby the preborn child is dismembered inside the mother's womb, with the D & X method the preborn baby is alive until the end of the procedure when the child is killed by suctioning the brain tissue through a hole at the base of the skull while the baby's head is still inside the uterus. Then the intact aborted child, minus brain content, is removed from the womb. 
According to the paper presented by Dr. Haskell the procedure takes three days and begins with "dilation (and) MORE DILATION." The cervix is initially dilated to 9-11 mm. with mechanical dilators, in order to accommodate tfie placement of five to seven synthetic laminaria, Dilapan hydroscopic dilators, which remain in place overnight. 
The following morning the Dilapan are removed and replaced with a second insertion of 15 to 25 dilators, again left overnight. The Dilapan process may cause severe cramping. 
On the third day, after removing the dilators, the abortionist ruptures the membranes, if this has not already happened, and drains the amniotic fluid. The abortionist places an ultrasound transducer on the mother's abdomen and locates the child's legs and feet. 
The abortionist then uses a large forceps to grasp one of the baby's legs. He pulls frrmly, forcing the child into a feet-down position. He continues pulling until the baby's leg isdrawn into the birth canal. 
Next, using his hands instead of forceps, the abortionist delivers the baby's body in a manner similar to a breech birth. First, the child's other leg is delivered, followed by the torso, shoulders, and arms. The baby's head "usually" remains inside the uterus. 
The abortionist then performs the last step which Dr. Haskell calls "fetal skull decompres­sion." Using blunt-tipped surgical scissors in a closed position, he pierces the child's head at the base of the skull. He then forces the scissors open to enlarge the skull opening. 
Removing the scissors, the abortionist inserts a suction catheter into the wound and vacuums out the child's brain tissue (in Dr. Haskell's words, "evacuates the skull contents") causing the baby's death. With the skull emptied of brains, it collapses and he then "applies traction to the (dead) fetus removing it completely from the patient." 
Dr. Haskell has performed over 700 of these abortions on preborn babies as old as 26 weeks. Dr. Haskell refers to another abortionist, Dr. James McMahon of McMahon Med. Center and Eve Surgical Centers in Los Angeles and Tarzama, CA, who not only also uses this technique but sometimes uses it to abort preborn children up to 32 weeks "or more." 
Barbara Radford, Executive Director of the National Abortion Federation said of this late-term abortion technique, in a 6/18/93 letter to NAF members, "Don't apologize: this is a legal abortion procedure." 
..
_ 

10 1994 Human Ufe Alliance Advertising Supplement 
ttttttttttt American War Casualties ttttttttttt 
Each cross-mark represents 50,000 people killed. 1be war 
casualties represent all American combat-related deaths. 
Revolutionary War  (25,314)  1  
Civl1 War  (498,331)  tttttttttt  
World War I  (116,708)  ttt  
World WarD  (407,316)  tttttttt­ 
Korean War  (54,146)  t- 
V".etnam War  (58,655)  t·  
GtM War  (193)  
Ww On 1he Uftbom  (30,000.000)  

ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt 
Rape and Incest cont from p.8 
my life." I tallows them to show their own courage andgenerosity. When the needof pregnant rape victims is carefully exam­ined, i1 can be shown the abortion is not necessary and indeed is very Ukely to hin­derrecovery by increasingfeeUngs ofguilt, shame and low self-esteem. 
Like Incest, Abortion Promotes Silence 
Incest victims face similar problems. In­cest is a very complex issue and it is hard to say much in a very short period of time, but the vast majority of incest victims want to carry their pregnancy to term. These are young girls for whom pregnancy is a way to break out of an incestuous relationship with their father, whom they may love despite their confusion and resentment about the way they have been used as sexual objects. Since they still love the father, having the child can not only help expose the incestu­ous relationship but also give hope of be­ginning a truly loving relationship. 
In studies of incest victims, the vast ma­jority choose to carry the pregnancy to term.8 Those in the minority who have an abortion do so only under pressure from their parents to conceal the incestuous rela­tionship. Because incest is a family pathol­ogy that involves father, mother and daugh­ter, all are involved in a conspiracy of si­lence.9 
I interviewed Edith Young, now 38 years old, who was a rape and incest victim at 12 years of age. To cover up the incident, her parents procured an abortion for her with­out telling her what was to happen. The emotional and physical scars of incest and abortion still last to this day. She said, "I was being sexually attacked, threatened by him and betrayed by Mom's silence...the abortion which was to be in 'my best inter­est' has not been...it only 'saved their repu­tations,' solved their problems and allowed their lives to go merrily on.10 
Pro-life persons. don't have any reason to be ashamed to defend a pro-Ufe view in the case ofrape or incest. The ones who need to be ashamed are the pro-abortionists who have been exploiting the problems of rape and incest victims, confusing the pubUc and promoting abortion for their own social engineering goals. To my knowledge, pro-abortionists have never yet 
brought together a group of rape and incest victims who carried their pregnancies to term who said, "Oh, that was the worst thing I ever did. Why dido 't somebody give me an abortion when I needed it?" 
We, on the other hand, can produce women who took the advice of the pro-abortionists, had the abortion and now say, "This abortion ruined my life. What were you telling me?" We need to join rape and incest victims in demanding that pro-abortionists stop ex­ploiting the pain of innocent women's prob­lems for their own political ends. 
'~snancy and Sexual Auoult, Stllldra Mablwm, in Tlw PSJdaologiCJJ hp<ct•of.4.bonio,._ cd. Mall andWIIIU (1979),pp. 53-72. '.4.borkd W """'"' SUeIll No .-.. David C. Rcanlm (1987), pp. 206­210. 
•tt'rut omitb:d. 'Ouu:omc Followina Therapeutic Abortioo. Payno ct ol., .4.rda. Gen. 
PSJdaialry 33:72.S-733 (J111111 1976). 'Supn.nollo I. 'Supra."'*' 2, pp. 276-278. 
'The Comcqum>ca of lnceot: Givina 1nd Toltina Life, Maloof. in Tlw 
PSJdaoloBict~lhp<cuof.4.bor1iDoo,od.M.UIJidWalb(1979),pp.73-110. 
'Falhcr-Daushlicr lncat-Treatment of tho Family. K.cmcdy, r.-1 McdiaJ/40:946-950 (1969). 
"Supra. notr: 2, pp. 212-218. 
David C. Reardon is Director of the Elliot Institute for Social Sciences Research and author of the book "Aborted Women: Silent No More" (1987). For a complimentary copy of his Post-sbortlon Review Newsletter, write to: P.O. Box 9079, Springfield, IL 62791-9079. The majority of this article appeared in A..octatlon for lnterd/scl· pi/nary Research Newsletter, Vol2, Fal/1988 
Planned Parenthood 
In 1963, a Planned Parenthood publication, Plan Your Children for Health and Happi­ness, stated: "An abortion kills the life of a baby after it has begun. It is dangerous to your life and health." Yet, Planned Parent­hood now operates the largest number of abortionmillsinthecountry. In 1991Planned Parenthood added eleven new abortion cham­bers across the United States. 
Consider this revealing quote taken from New Dimensions magazine (September/ October 1991, p.22): "Planned Parenthood recently acknowledged what the anti-abor­tion camp has been saying for years: nine out of ten women who have 'safe and legal' abortions suffer from abortion-induced trauma." 
Carol Everett was involved in the abortion industry in the Dallas/Ft. Worth, Texas, area from 1977 until 1983. As director of four clinics, owner of two, Ms. Everett was respon­sible for the clinics' daily operation. Everett, who had an abortion soon after it became legal in 1973, now speaks out on ... 
"What I Saw in the Abortion Industry" 
Q 
What is the governing force behind the abortion industry? A. Money. It is a very lucrative business. Itis the largest unregulated indus­try in our nation. Most of the clinics are run in chains because it is so profitable. 
Q 
How much money were you making in the abortion 
industry before you quit? 

A. I was getting a commission of $25.00 on every abortion I "sold". In 1983, the year I got out, I would have pocketed approxi­mately $250,000. But, in 1984 we expected to be operating five clinics, terminating about 40,000 pregnancies, and with that projection I planned to net $1 million. Money, Money, Money-that's where my heart was. 
Q 
Why do you refer to "selling" abortions? A. The product, abortion, is skill­fully marketed and sold to the woman at the crisis time in her life. She buys the product, finds it defective and wants to return it for a refund. But, it's too late. Her baby is dead. 
Q 
In what way is the woman deceived? A. In two ways-the clinic per­sonnel and the marketers must deny the per­sonhood of the child and the pain caused by the procedure. Every woman has two ques­tions, "Isitababy?"and"Doesithurt?" The abortionist mustanswer"NO:' He/she must lie to secure the consent of the woman and the collection of the clinic's fee. The women were told that we were dealing with a "prod­uct of conception" or a "glob of tissue:' They were told that there would be only slight cramping, whereas, in reality, an abortion is excruciatingly painful. 
Q 
What type of counseling was offered at the clinics? A. In the clinics in which I was involved we didn't do any real counseling. We answered only the questions the woman asked and tried not to "rock the boat." We did not discuss alternatives to abortion un­less the woman forced us to. We sold abor­
~­
Q 
What method of abortion did your clinics use? A. For the most part, the abortion industry stopped using saline and prostaglandin procedures because of the number of live births. A live birth means you have to let the baby die, or dispose of it in some distasteful way. Most second and third trimester abortionists use the D & E (dilation and evacuation) method. The abortionist uses large forceps to crush the baby inside the mother's uterus and remove it in pieces. The side effects of live births and the mother going through labor are avoided. But it is a horrible procedure in which the baby must be re-constructed out­side the uterus to be certain all the parts have been removed. 

Carol Everett 
Q 
How did you dispose of an aborted baby? A. In our clinics, we put them down the garbage disposal. We used the heavy duty modeL Some second and third trimester babies' muscle structure is so strong that the baby will not come apart, so they must be disposed of through trash recep­tacles. 
Q 
Abortion is supposed to be a "safe" experience. What complications did you witness? A. We were doing a one-day traumatic dilation, which has a higher rate of compli­cation. In the last 18 months I was in the business, we were completing over 500 abor­tions monthly and killing or maiming one woman out of 500. Common complications that take place are perforations or tears in the uterus. Many of those result in hysterecto­mies. The doctor might cut or harm the urinary tract, which then requires surgical repair. A complication that is rarely publi­cized is the one in which the doctor perfo­rates the uterus and pulls the bowels through the vagina, resulting in colostomy. Some of those can be reversed, some must live with the colostomy for the remainder of their lives. 
Q 
How did you keep these complications and deaths from 
the public? 

A. The woman would be loaded into my car (an ambulance outside an abortion clinic is terrible advertising) and transported to a hospital that would protect the doctor and the abortion clinic's reputation. The con­cern is not with the patient only in keeping an unblemished reputation. You have a built-in cover-up with the patients' family. They are dealing with their guilt and emotions over the situation and do not want to deal with the added pressure of exposing the truth through the media. 
Q 
Why did you get out of the abortion business? A. Two things came into play at about the same time. I experienced a pro­foundly religious transformation--a conver­sion. At about the time I was having second thoughts a Dallas television station did an expose disclosing the abortions performed at my clinic on non-pregnant women -all for money! I finally realized, "We weren't helping women-we were destroying them -and theirchildfen." By then my transfor­mation was complete and I knew that I not only had to stop being involved with abor­tions but I had to help promote the truth. 
Human Life Alliance Advertising Supplement 1994 11 
Post Abortion Syndrome 
ABORTION: 
Possible Effects on Your Body 
Immediate 
•Intense 
pain •Punctured uterus •Excessive bleeding 

•Infection 
•Parts of baby left inside •Shock/Coma 


•Damage to other organs •Death 
Later 
•Inability 
to become pregnant again •Miscarriage/Stillbirths •Tubal Preganancies 

•Premature births •Pelvic inflammatory disease 

•Hysterectomy 
•Two to Four times Higher Risk of Developing Breast Cancer 


(/People do not understand that there are thousands ofserious physical complications from abortion every year in this country." Dr. Bernard Nathanson, OB-GYN, 
"The inherent risk ofabortion is not fully appreciated, both by many in the profession and certainly not by the public." The American Colleges of Obstetrics and Gynecology. 
Possible Effects on Your Emotions 
The Most Common 
•Guilt • Desire to become pregnant again 
•Depression/Crying •Inability to forgive yourself •Intense grief/sadness 
•Anger/Rage •Emotional numbness 
•Sexual problems •Lowered self-esteem 
•Nightmares •Anorexia or other eating disorders 
•Drug or alcohol abuse •Suicidal urges 
(/Abortion has a painful aftermath, regardless ofthe woman's religious beliefs, or how positive she may have felt beforehand about her decision to abort." Vincent Rue, Ph.D, Psychologist. 
(Women suffering mental and emotional anguish following an abortion) 
Dr. Anne Speckhard, Ph.D, in her study on Post Abortion Syndrome, found the following effects on women. 
Events Related-to Abortion 
• 
23% had hallucinations related to the abortion 

• 
35% perceived visitation from the aborted child 

• 
54% had nightmares related to the abortion 

• 
69% experienced feelings of "craziness" 

• 
73% had flashbacks of abortion experience 

• 
81% had a preoccupation with the aborted child 


Most Common Behavioral Problems After Abortion 
• 
61% increased their use of alcohol 

• 
65% had thoughts of suicide 

• 
69% were sexually inhibited 

• 
73% had flashbacks of the abortion 

• 
77% experienced an inability to communicate 

• 
81% experienced frequent crying 


Problems ... after an abortion? MEDICAL • LEGAL • EMOTIONAL HELP 
CALL 1-800-634-2224 AMERICAN RIGHTS COALITION or 1-800-962-2319 LEGAL ACTION FOR WOMEN Additional Resources listed on Page 5 
A Mother's Anguished Letter to Her Aborted Child 
Even after years have intervened, a woman cannot forget the life that her decision took 
Ten years ago yesterday, I carried you beneath my heart. Ten years ago today, I stopped the beating of your heart. I, your mother, the one who gave you life, also gave you death. 
It's been a decade and still my blood runs cold and I catch my breath whenever I hear the word "abortion." There's an emptiness inside of me that can never be filled, a chill that has never quite been warmed, a grief that will never end. To me you will forever remain an unfinished song, a flower that never bloomed, a sunrise clouded by rain. Even during your last fragile moments of life, I wondered, "Is my baby a boy or a girl?" The question ran through my mind again and again as I tried to block out the sickening sounds of you being surtioned from my womb and from my life. I seemed to have a burning need to know whether I would have had a son or a daughter, yet somehow I couldn't bear to ask such an indelicate question of the doctor who stood smiling above me. Instead, I simply nodded in defeat and sadness as this man in white 
patted my trembling hand and said, "Now­aren't you glad it's all over?'' 
As I lay there drowning in my own blood, tears and sweat, I could hear the nurses chattering about co-workers, new cars and clothes. 
To these people, the extermination of your life was simply a job-"making a living by destroying the living." To those gathered in that sunny room in Philadelphia 10 years ago, it was just another day. To me, it was the darkest day I had ever known. 
"The Abortion"-the most heart-wrench­ing, terrible experience I had suffered through in my 18 years; certainly the most painful experience suffered by you in your three short months. It has taken me all these years to get over it. 
Now-as my eyes fill with tears, I realize that this is something I will never"get over." That fateful April day has replayed itself over and over in my mind like a horror movie one forces oneself to watch, then can never forget ... 
Even in my distraught state ofmind, I knew that there were other choices. I was simply too scared to consider the alternatives. Still a child myself, I "wasn't ready" to be a mother. 
What I didn't realize then was that I already was a mother. You became my child at the moment of conception; my love for you began when your life began, and although your life ended, that love has never died. 
Your silent screams have awakened me from sleep many times over the years, and I have lain in the dark and mourned the loss of the baby I killed. There have even been times when I've contemplated ending my own life as I ended yours. 
It's been 10 years and still I haven't for­given myself. Have you forgiven me? Has God forgiven me for destroying a being created by Him? 
I'vehad many nightmares through the years. Scenes ofa tiny fetus in a trash bag haunt my subconscious. I've awakened in a cold sweat, again feeling the excruciating pain of that long-ago day. I recall the intense physical pain of the abortion-but those 10 min­utes ofhurt were nothing compared to the 10 years of pain I've lived with since. 
For years my heart has ached to write you this letter, but whenever I attempted to put my feelings into words, I found the blank pages covered with tears rather than with ink. For some reason, though, tonight was different. ... 
Perhaps this letter was meant to be written in order to help others to avoid the agony I experienced, to help other young girls "in trouble," as I was 10 years ago, to realize that there are alternatives to abortion .... 
If this letter prevents even one abortion, it will have served a purpose. But Baby, my purpose in sending this letter to you is to let you know that I love you -whoever you are. And I'm sorry. 
Love, Mommy 

Printed with permission from Our Sunday Visitor and Linda Oatman. 

12 1994 Human Life Alliance Advertising Supplement 
How Developed Is Your Baby? 

Baby at Approximately Six Weeks 
This remarkable photograph of a tiny pre­born baby in his unruptured amniotic sac was taken after surgery (for a tubal preg­nancy) at the University of Minnesota by medical photographer, Robert Wolfe, in 1972. The 22-year-old mother had experi­enced her last normal menses just 6 weeks prior to surgery (period approximately two weeks late). 
Consider This Testimony 
"Eleven years ago while giving an anes­second, with a natural swimmer's stroke. thetic for a ruptured ectopic pregnancy (at 8 This tiny human did not look at all like the weeks gestation). I was handed what I photos and drawings and models of 'em­believe was the smallest living human ever bryos' which I had seen, nor did it look like seen. The embryonic sac was intact and a few embryos I have been able to observe transparent. Within the sac was a tiny human since then, obviously because this one was male swimming extremely vigorously in the alive! amniotic fluid, while attached to the wall by "When the sac was opened, the tiny human the umbilical cord. This tiny human was immediately lost his life and took on the perfectly developed, with long, tapering appearance of what is accepted as the ap­fmgers, feet and toes. It was almost trans­pearance of an embryo at this stage of life parent, as regards the skin, and the delicate (with blunt extremities etc.)." arteries and veins were prominent to the ends of the fingers. Statement by Paul E. Rockwell, M.D., 
"The baby was extremely alive and swam anesthesiologist, as quoted by Dr. and Mrs. about the sac approximately one time per J.C. Willke in Handbook on Abortion. 
Feet of Baby at Ten Weeks 
Dr. Russell Sacco ofOregon took this picture of the per­fectly formed feet of a tO­week-old aborted baby wait­ing for disposal in a pathologist's laboratory. The feet in the picture are held between the doctor's thumb and forefinger. 



Don't Make My Mistakes 
Some people say that abortion is "an informed decision between a woman and her physician." You hear that a lot. But the fact is that most women never meet the abortionist until they are on the table, as happened in my case. 

I was I 8 years old when I got pregnant. I wasn't serious about my boyfriend. It was a casual relationship. Since I had already enlisted in the Air Force, I thought I had to have an abortion in order to make something out ofmy life. 
My best friend drove me to the abortion clinic. I was therefor about four hours. It was like an assembly line. When the ultrasound was being done I asked to see it. But this wasn't allowed (so much for "an informed decision"). Then I asked how far along I was. I was told I was nine­and-a-half weeks pregnant. That hit me hard. I knew then that my baby was further developed than I had thought. I started doubting, and wanted to talk to my friend. But I wasn't allowed to do that either. 
When it was my turn the nurse told me that I was going to feel some discomfort, like strong menstrual cramps. The truth is that the abortion was more pain than I've everfelt in my life. It felt like my insides were literally being sucked out ofmy body. Afterwards I went into shock! 
After the abortion, I tried to make up for the abortion by trying to get pregnant again. I wanted my baby back. I never got pregnant again. I don't know ifI can ever have another baby. I named my baby. I found out later that this is part of the grieving process. 
I ended up in the hospital with bulimia two-and-one-half years later. I felt that no one had punished mefor what I had done so I was punishing myself I became obsessed with women who were pregnant, with women who would talk about their pregnancy. My life was in shambles! I was suffering from post-abortion trauma. 
When I was 21 years old God brought me help through a woman who was involved in pro-life activism. She helped me a lot. I went through a post-abortion counseling program called "Conquerors." God not only forgave me, He challenged me to help others . I answered the challenge! 
I started picketing and sidewalk counseling. There is a healing process that comes from getting involved in the pro-life movement. I talk to youth groups and students about abstinence and I share my testimony. To them, and to you, I plead, "Please don't make the same mistakes I did." 
~ 

See pages 5 & 8 for alternatives to abortion! 
Notre Dame I St. Mary's Right to Life 
Box 462 • LaFortune • Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 • (219) 631-9006 








