
~150 YEARS~ 
Friday, December 2, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 61 
~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 




Always on Duty 

By LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame has a resource that is so rare, only five exist in the United States. This unfrequented campus location is completely dedicated to Notre Dame, its students, faculty and even the very build~ ings which make up the campus. 
This resource is the Notre Dame Fire Department, and it is one of only five university operated fire de­partments in the nation. The department's sole pose is protect lives and property, according to of Operations John Antonucci, a 1978 Notre graduate who was appointed as chief in August this year. 
"Our number one priority is to protect the lives the students and educate them about fire safety," he said. This is accomplished through coordinating dorm fire drills, frequent alarm inspections and working with students on the planning of activities which could involve fire hazards. 
'Qur number one priority is to protect the lives of students and educate them about fire safety.' 
John Antonucci Chief of Operations Notre Dame Fire Department 

"I have bent over backwards for Student 
Activities," he said. "We go as far we can possibly go 
to make sure events come off." Events include any­
thing from dorm bon fires to Student Activities fire­
works shows. 
Antonucci, who spent four of his 19 years with the 
New Carlisle Fire Department as chief, runs the sta­
tion along with nine other iirefighters who comprise 
the departments three shifts. At any time of the day 
or night, there are at least three firefighters pre­
pared to handle an emergency at a moment's notice. 
11 paid on-call firefighters, six of which are current­
ly career firefighters, work part-time when addi­
tional help is needed. 
The station handles approximately 1,000 calls per 
year, most of which are rescues of some type, 
Antonucci said. 
Medical runs account for 40 percent of total runs, 
with 348 in 1993. A run is defined as any time 
emergency vehicles are required to respond. 
Another common run involves extracting students 
from stuck elevators of which there were 77 in 
• r--------------------­
·-;..· 
... 
. . 

. . . . . .
Captam Mark Esenwem of the Notre Dame F1re Depanrnent checks to make sure everythmg 1s work1ng properly on the Department's newest truck. Esenwein is one of ten permanent NDFD employees. 
see FIRE/page 4 

Notre Da01e graduate student dies at 28 


By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
Babara Ballasty, a fifth year graduate student in philosophy and off-campus resident, died unexpectedly Wednesday af­ternoon of natural causes. She was twenty-eight years old. 
She is survived by her parents Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ballasty of Middletown, New Jersey, and a brother Robert also of Middletown. 
Ballasty was pursuing a Ph.d. in philosophy. She had finished her coursework requirements, and recently passed her oral proficiency exams, according to her academic advisor Michael Loux, professor of philosophy. 
Ballasty was working on completeing her dissertation on Aristotle's Theory of Action and Theory of Deliberation, Loux said. 
She also worked as a teaching assistant in the philosophy de­partment. Alvin Plantinga, the John O'Brein Chair in Philosophy and friend of Ballasty, said he thought she was a promising student who would meet with success. 
"She was an intelligent woman, and an excellent stu­dent. She had a real future in philosophy," Plantinga sairl. 
"Barbara was talented, very bright, and deeply religious," said Loux. 
Ballas was a memeber of the Christian Reform Church of South Bend, and of a graduate student-run Bible Study Group. During the school year, she resided on Hickory Road in Mishawaka. 
Funeral arangements are still pending. 


ay po icies questione 
By CHRIS CORRENTE 
News Writer 
The government has no ra­tional basis whatsoever for acts or policies that penalize gay and lesbian people, according to Peter Cicchino, J.D., civil rights attorney. 
In a speech entitled "Gays, Lesbians, and the Law," Cicchino argued the rationality of a recent argument put forth by Catholic Natural Law Philosopher John Finnis. In the recent volume of the Notre Dame Review, Finnis claimed the state has the authority to discourage same-sex relations. 
Cicchino claimed that Finnis' argument "called for state regulation of sexual conduct completely divorced from any connection to public welfare." He also added that Finnis' <1rgument was "made without citation to any study, without reference to any empirical evi­dence whatsmwer." 

Cicchino also addressed sev­eral arguments that have been made for the promotion of anti­gay laws, namely that such laws will stop the spread of dis­ease and conserve public re­sources. 
Citing the fact that a majority of those affected with the HIV virus are heterosexual, he found the belief that laws pro­hibiting homosexual relations will stop the rampant spread of diseases "fatally flawed both logically and empirically." 
Cicchino stated that the dis­ease argument failed to account for lesbians. He joked that since studies show le::.bians have the lowest rate of HIV in­fection, the argument defeats itself and "leads inescapably to the conclusion that lesbian re­lations are the ethical and polit­ical ideal." 
He claimed that punishment for same-sex relations might have a reverse effect on the containment of disease because "it may make it more difficult to disseminate medical informa­tion and encourage safe sex practices conducive to restrain­ing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and the HIV virus in particular." 
The belief that homosexuals drain public resources was an argument used in the defense of Colorado's anti-gay Amendment 2. Yet, like Finnis' argument, Cicchino claimed the argument is flawed because "there is not a shred of evi­dence that shows gays will drain public resources." 
Despite the continuing con­troversy over homosexuality, Cicchino claimed that argu­ments against gays and les­bians are losing credibility are becoming increasingly illogical. "Anti-gay arguments based in 
see GAYS I page 5 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, December 2, I 994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

See how the Lame Ducks squa-wk 
Birds have always cap­tured the attention of America. Their grace and beauty, power and speed, sometimes their peculiari­ties and even their ugli­ness are viewed with awe, respect or curiosity. 
There are a lot of birds in American legend, lore, and culture. The bald eagle. The turkey. The falcon. The black­bird. The canary. Big Bird. But none are so closely watched or carefully scrutinized as the Lame Duck. 
The Lame Duck seems to have a strangle­hold on the imagination of Americans every­where right now. But for something so widely documented in the American press, few attempts have ever been made to describe or understand this animal. One question remains unanswered: Just what sort of bird is it? 
This mystical American fowl appears to habitate only in one densely populated urban area in the middle latitudes of the eastern United States. It is not known exactly how they breed, but scientists have noticed that the species has a peculiar gestation cycle. 
Every second year the Lame Ducks leave their home ground during the summer and fall and return in November, often with new ones. No scientist has been able to explain this phenomena. 
These birds seem to be semi-intelligent, often issuing loud, complicated calls that some experts believe is a language. These noisy, rambling, vocalizations have an irritating tone and pitch, and serve no apparent purpose. Lame ducks have been known to carry on these calls for hours, even days at a time. 
A team of researchers is currently working under a grant from the National Geographic Society in an attempt to better understand this "language" and its function. 
The behavior of the Lame Duck is a source of consternation to researchers as well. It seems these fowl sit around and do nothing all day, except for that strange period every two years. 
How these creature are able to survive with such low activity levels is still beyond the grasp of science. The lack of meaningful accomplishment in their lives doesn't seem to bother the birds. 
Their diets are believed to consist of Newts, small political consultants, and press confer­ences. Lame Ducks have been observed vora­ciously swallowing presidential actions whole. 
These American birds are currently running rampant all over Washington. They have been up to their usual habits, and doing nothing. 
They have been stalling any progress a well meaning president has attempted to make. Now they have bred again, and a new batch vocally spout a song that promises change for the better. 
If past observed behavior can serve as an indication of the future, one can only hope that these birds old and new, are soon extinct. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Amy Schmidt Kristi Kolski  Mike Shaf Accent  
Sports Krista Nannery Production  Theresa Aleman Graphics Raben Bowman  

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Study says smokers more likely to suffer from impotence 

ATLANTA 
Smokers are 50 percent more likely to suffer from impotence than nonsmokers, the government said Thursday. Researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said the rate may be even slightly higher, because their study was based on men willing to acknowledge the sexual disorder. 
"It's more bad news for smok­ers," said Dr. David Mannino of the CDC's National Center for Environmental Health. The study was based on a survey of 4,462 
U.S. Army Vietnam veterans between the ages of 31 and 49. Among nonsmokers, 2.2 percent said they suffered persistent impo­tence, compared to 2 percent of former smokers and 3.7 percent of current smokers. 
The report, published in the December issue of the American 
Lisa and Michael: Heartbreak Hotel? 
NEW YORK 
Who would have imagined? The Michael Jackson-Lisa Marie Presley marriage may be breaking up. Less than five months after the kids secret­ly tied the knot and stunned the world, it seems the whole Neverland­Graceland love thing might have been just another tale of boy meets girl, boy gets weird, girl gets out. The official 

word from the couple's spokespeople: Jackson "It's totally untrue," Jackson spokesman Lee Solters said of the divorce rumors. The separation speculation, coming just after the couple's six-month anniversary, started with published reports in New York and London that the marriage was sinking. Jackson biographer Christopher Andersen said he first heard rumors of a split on Tuesday. "I had heard their lawyers were actually talking annulment," said the author of "Michael Jackson Unauthorized." "Are Michael and Lisa Marie friends? Sure -they've been friends for a long time. But that's not a marriage," he said. 


Officer nabs suspect in wife's robbery 
TIFFIN, Ohio 
Police officer Bryan Bryant was in the right place at the right time when he nabbed an Indianapolis man and his brother after they allegedly robbed the store where his wife was working. Damon Echols, 21, of Tiffin, a University of Tiffin football player, has been charged with aggravated robbery. Bryant last week pulled his cruiser into a parking lot next to the Pit Stop, where Elke Bryant is an assistant manager. "I didn't know exactly what was going on," Bryant said Wednesday. The man allegedly pointed a gun at Mrs. Bryant and demanded money. Mrs. Bryant gave the man the money from the cash register and he left the store. Bryant watched the man leave and get in a waiting car. "I pulled behind him in my cruiser and when he was crouched over talking to the driver from the passenger side, I flashed my high beams on him and told him to drop the gun," Bryant said. The man threw the gun and the money into weeds along the roadway. Bryant then held the man. Mrs. Bryant said she did not know her husband was watching the robbery. · 

• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Friday, Dec. 2 Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Dec. 2. 
FRONTS: 

............... ..&..&.. ............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994Accu-Weather. Inc. Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Journal of Epidemiology, is the first to show that smoking alone is a risk factor for impotence, said Dr. Hobert J. Krane, head of Boston University Medical Center's urology department. 
"It's quite impressive that we see a difference in this younger age group," he said. 
Mannino said the study did not examine why smoking could lead to impotence, but earlier research has shown that smokers are more likely to develop vascular disease, which plays a role in sexual dys­function. 
"You need good blood vessels to maintain an erection," he said. 
Other evidence points to the numerous compounds in cigarette smoke, such as carbon monoxide, which can relax the blood vessels or affect the nervous system and thus prevent an erection.. 

$100 million Power ball prize divided 
That's a $50 million haircut on Gary Allen's head. Allen bought $5 worth of Powerball tickets on his way to a haircut Wednesday morning in Anderson, Ind., just north of Indianapolis. That night, he matched all six numbers drawn to win half the game's $100 million jack­pot. The other winning ticket was sold in North Platte, Neb., but that winner hasn't come forward yet. The jack­pot was the game's second-highest, edipsed only by the $111 million won by a Wisconsin teacher in 1993. Allen, 38, went to Hoosier Lottery headquarters in Indianapolis on Thursday to claim his first installment of $1.8 million, after taxes. Allen and his wife, Debra, who accompanied him to pick up the first check, said they planned to pay off bills and help family members. After that, they may travel. "You never know," said Allen, who planned to continue working at an electronics company where he's been employed for 16 years. The couple has a 10-year­old daughter. It was the second time since July that a grand-prize Powerball ticket was sold in the town of about 23,000 people. The grand-prize ticket was bought at the town's 7-Eleven store, Nebraska Lottery officials said. 
Jury awards $3.5 million in bear attack 
CINCINNATI 

A jury awarded nearly $3.5 million to a former Cincinnati Zoo animal keeper whose forearm was chewed off and swallowed by a polar bear. Laurie Stober, 30, was attacked in 1990 by Ieee, an 800-pound bear that grabbed her fingers with his teeth and chewed his way up to her elbow. The zoo said that it had fol­lowed proper procedures and that Stober had stuck her fingers inside the cage in violation of zoo policy. Stober, however, said the bear poked through the bars of the cage and bit her fingertips as she offered it a grape. And she said the zoo had made the animal hostile by confin­ing it in a small, poorly lighted and ventilated cage. "It's never been about money to me. It's been about working conditions," Stober said after the verdict Wednesday. ''I'm happy for me and the people who are still working at the zoo." The zoo said it will appeal. 
Atlanta 68 47 Dallas 70 56 New Orleans 75 58 Baltimore 67 33 Denver 61 37 New York 57 41 Boston 58 40 Los Angeles 69 55 Philadelphia 61 38 Chicago 55 43 Miami 84 72 Phoenix 74 50 Columbus 58 39 Minneapolis 45 35 St. Louis 62 48 
Susan Marx Viewpoint Heather Gibson Suzy Fry 
Tho ObS<rv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishod Monday through Friday t'Xcept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhC' A!t~ociarcd Press. All reproduclion rights are reserved. 


--------~---------~-~ ---~~--------------------­
--------------------. 
Friday, December 2, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NASCCU conference to focus on women 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Ediwr 
The National Association for Catholic Colleges and Universities will be holding a conference at Notre Dame this weekend, according to Conference Chairman Gary Girzadas. co-president of Carroll Hall. 
Two main speakers will be at the conference, which began last night and will continue until Sunday afternoon. Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshmen Year of Studies will be speaking on "The Myth of Meritocracy" on Friday at 10 a.m. in the Center for Continuing Education, and Senior Religion Correspondent for the New York Times Peter Steinfels, will be speaking on Saturday from 2-3 p.m. 
According to Girzadas, eight professors, administrators, and community leaders will be facilitating small group discus­sions during the conference. Topics of these discussions will include women in the Church, women on the college campus, 
--------------------------Affairs, to determine what steps the station has to take to 
English as a  get the administration's sup­port and approval in upgrading it to FM.  
Second  "The meeting was pretty posi­tive. I think it's definitely a step in the right direction, "  
Sostak said.  
Language  The first requirement posed by the administration is for WVFI to gain more student sup­port of its conversion to FM.  
INTENSIVE PROGRAM OF STUDY  Sostak said that the station  
plans to start building this sup­ 
at Indiana University South Bend  port by airing more specialty  
• Improve active use of written and spoken English  

• Understand verbal and non-verbal differences 
The Planner-Siegfried Players Present 

in communication between cultures 
• 
Develop and improve listening, speaking, reading and writing skills 

• 
Receive individualized attention 


A .stmas 

January 9 through May 12, 1995 9 a.m.-1 p.m. Monday through Friday 
Chfl Carol

IUSB Continuing Education 
, 
December 1st, 2nd and 3rd 
1700 Mishawaka Avenue 
Bring Bring
7:30PM-9:00PM at Washington Hall 
YourYour 
$3.00 Tickets Available 
Date!

Call 237-4261 for information 
Date! 
at LaFortune Information Desk and women in society/the work­place. 


Girzadas noted that women in the Church is "a theme we will discuss pretty heavily." 
NASCCU was founded five years ago at Dayton University in Ohio, according to Girzadas. It is the only student-run orga­nization for students at Catholic universities, he said. 
"NASCCU tries to provide a forum for students from Catholic universities where is­sues germane to these students can be discussed," Girzadas said, and he noted "Aids, aca­demic freedom, and multicul­turalism" as main themes of past conferences. 
There will be a panel of stu­dents from Catholic schools across the country present at the conference, according to Girzadas. These students will act out situations of gender conflicts on college campuses. 
Role playing is a different and interesting way for stu­dents to discuss gender issues rather than listening to an au­thority lecture on the topic, ac­cording to Girzadas. 

WVFI still hopeful about FM 
By MELISSA HARRAKA 
News Writer 
Representatives from WVFI met with the Vice Presidents of Student Affairs last week to dis­cuss the radio station's ambi­tions of broadcasting as an FM station. 
If Administration and Federal Communications Committee (FCC) requirements can be met, the station could make the FM conversion sometime in the next two years. 
WVFI is a station directed at the college-aged audience of the Notre Dame community. It is completely managed and or­ganized by Notre Dame stu­dents. 
Because WVFI is still an AM carrier current station and is only picked up through electri­cal outlets, only those students on the Notre Dame campus can pick up WVFI on their radios. According to Steve Sostak, stu­dent manager of WVFI, this has made the station "underground in the truest sense of under­ground." 
Sostak and Student Body President Dave Hungeling met with Father Peter Rocca and Sister Jean Lenz, the Assistant Vice Presidents of Student 
-~
·_"'""""'""
.
' 
.. ::. 

Saint Mary's freshman Nora Meany 
show such as half-hour pro­grams for each class office to take calls on the air. 
"We need some general sup­port for that genre. And if you're not a college music fan, there is a lot of other stuff we have to offer," Sostak added. 
When the University is satis­fied with the amount of student support for an FM broadcast and consents to WVFI's request for the upgrade, the station will have to complete a FCC appli­cation process to be given a fre­quency on the FM current. 
Sostak hopes that the University's permission will be granted sometime next year. The FCC application will take approximately a year as well, so the station estimates that its 
The ObserverfMike Rums 

keeps busy as a DJ for WVFI. 
transition to FM will take at least two years. 
The radio station has already begun expanding its programs with a new Irish Issues pro­gram and Irish music. Dave Hungeling has his own talk show as well. College rock will continue to be the primary sound of the station, however. 
WVFI will also begin a new advertising campaign and dis­tribute a survey to students to find out whether they consider it a priority to have an FM sta­tion on campus. 
At one time, WVFI shared a station with WSND, but when WSND went FM and became a primarily classical station, WVFI continued to air on the AM carrier current. 
Financial aid study proposed 
BY JEREMY DIXON News Writer 
In an effort to discover stu­dent opm10ns, Student Government is distributing a survey on financial aid here at Notre Dame. "We want to gauge students' perceptions of financial aid," said Larissa Herzoog, coordinator of the re­port. 
The student government committee will compile the re­sults of the survey and present their findings in a report to the Board of Trustees in February. 
"We are offering students an opportunity to say something that the University will read and talk about," stated Student Body President David Hungeling. 
Both Hungeling and Herzoog hope that the survey will give the Trustees the feelings of the student body in regard to financial aid. 
"It gives the University the opportunity to respond back if students feel that financial aid is a big priority," Hungeling re­marked. Herzoog said that the report was proposed due to a feeling that despite the recent strides in student aid, a prob­lem still exists with financial assistance. 
The survey asks students if it is the University's responsibili­ty to meet all of a student's demonstrated financial need, and how it could meet that re­sponsibility. It also asks stu­dents what kind of financial aid that they receive. They were distributed by campus mail earlier this week. 
page 4 
"Without those two, none of
The making 

The Notre Dame Fire Department 
this would be possible now," he
Fire 
said.

Chief of Operations John Antonucci 
Antonucci stressed that he Shift A Shift B Shift C 
continued from page I
of the ND 

does not want anyone to have a 1993. 
Robert Rogers (14) 
distorted view of the depart­

Mark Esenwein (13) Tom Quarandillo (11)
The department squad serves ment's objectives.
Wayne Bishop (11) John Kolacz (11)
fire dept. 

Triphon Lema (13) 
as a rescue vehicle and con­"The most distressing part of
Kenneth Mlller ( 4) Keith Cramer(~) 

Timothy Hoeppner ( 4) 
tains medical supplies for any the job is that most of the time

0= years of service
situation. Almost all of the fire­

we have to play a reactive fighters, including Antonucci, quickly to the call. One fire­matical equations are all part of role," he said. "We aren't out to 
By LIZ FORAN 

IA.sruciatc N~ws Ediror are trained as Emergency fighter will take the squad, routine training for all of the ruin anyone's fun, we are here 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 2, I 994 
which contains complete EMT

Like many other buildings Medical Technicians (EMT's). firefighters, Rogers said. to protect lives. If we get ealled 
medical supplies, and two oth­

and organizations on campus, "We are a certified EMT non­Two or three times a year, to an SYR and every fire alarm transporting department," the Rogers organizes tactical and smoke detector is covered
ers will take the engine. 
the Notre Dame Fire 
"That way, if a medical call

Department has a rich history Antonucci said. training by staging "fires" at with decorations, we don't have full of dedicated individuals. 
"One of our captains is a comes in while we're out and different places on campus. a lot of options except to have 
paramedic, and three others the situation is not serious, we "Over fall break, we had a them removed."
Yhe expansion and updating 

are advanced EMT's," he can have someone break away major exercise at Badin," he Antonucci also wants both
of the Notre Dame's fire de­
and answer it," Antonucci said. 

added. said. "There was a fire on the students and rectors to knowpartment is due largely to the 
A typical day around the sta­

efforts Brother Borromeo Aside from one or two runs third floor that had extended to that his o1'11ce is always open. per day, firefighters have plenty tion does not usually involve se­the fourth. We laid several feet "We try to get the message to
Malley, who retired as fire 
rious fire calls, according to

chief in 1989 after 50 years of of work to do to keep them of hose through the dorm." rectors to call us if they are 
Capt. Hobert Rogers, a 14 year

service, said current Chief John busy. Of the nearly 125 build­Another training exercise is planning an SYH, and we'll help 
ings on campus, 77 have fire veteran of the department. The being planned for spring break, with the planning of decora­Antonucci. lie was honored as alarm systems of some type, last serious fire nccurred when although Rogers is unsure of tions. It's much easier tothe longest serving fire chief in Antonucci said. St. Michael's Laundry burned to the location. Last spring, Flan­change things before anythingthe United States in 1992. 
the ground November 18, 1989. 

He then explained that most ner was used in the training. happens."
When Malley became chief in 1939, the fire department was of the campus uses the The nine firefighters are di­Winter ice rescue training is One of the departments main 
Gamewell system, which uses vided into three shifts and work also part of tactical exercise. 
contaets with students is loft in­electric signals to warn of fire. 24 hours on, 24 hours off for six Both Rogers and Antonucci spections, which are not always located in the same building it 
is now, although it had to share 
straight days, then are off for

"Sprinkler systems and smoke expressed a love for the fire pleasant if violations are found.
the space with Notre Dame 
four consecutive days. 

detectors are wired to a central fighting profession and for Antonucci told of a picture he In 1974, Jack Bland, an 18 unit in the building," he said. If Notre Dame. had seen a few years ago of a Security, he said. 
Rogers, who is captain of the a smoke detector, sprinkler, or "A" shift, begins his shift at 7 "If I had my life to live over, I firefighter with a chain sawyear veteran of the South Bend 
a.m. by going over the previous

other alarm mechanism is set wouldn't have done a single standing next to an elevated
Fire Department, was hired by 

off, electric signals ring the shift's events with its captain. thing differently," Rogers said. bed. "That's the image we areMalley as director of fire safety. 
He then runs the front office

alarm bell at the station, and "Notre Dame is the only de­trying to avoid," he said. "We"Brother Borromeo and Jack 
until Antonucci arrives. 

Bland brought the campus out soon, help is on the way. partment I would have left aren't the bad guys. Hegula­
The entire system runs on The firefighters spend most of South Bend for. I love the job." tions exist only to save lives."
of the dark ages" of firefight­ing, Antonucci said. 

four large batteries, which are their day catching up on pa­Antonucci credits the effi­"We like to take a more 
perwork, inspecting and main­

Until 1981, department per­tested and inspected daily. ciency of the department and proactive stance. We are here 
taining alarm systems and tak­

"Even if the power plant goes its progress in recent years to because of the students, not in down, the entire campus is still ing care of business at the sta­Director of Facilities Operations spite of them." 
sonnel consisted of two broth­
ers who lived in the building, 
tion, Rogers said. Housekeep­

protected," Antonucci said. Gary Shumaker and the de­"It's your life I'm trying tothree employees at the power 
ing is included among their du­

"It's still the most fool-proof partment's former chief, Jack save," he added. 
plant and a couple student fire­
ties, since firefighters must Bland.
system available," he added,
fighters. In March 1981, Robert 
sleep and eat at the station dur­
"and the technology dates backRogers was hired as the first ing their shifts.
to some of the original alarmpaid full-time shift firefighter. 
systems." "I do all of the cooking for my"Once I felt comfortable, they 

Join us to discuss
shift," Rogers said with a smile,
22 of the building alarm sys­
brought in another person, 
"otherwise we would all
tems are also directly con­
then another until we had one starve."
nected to the station by com­
person on each shift," Rogers 
A retiree from the South Bend 

WIIIEt:Erer
puter. With the punch of but­ton, Antonucci pulls up a list of 
said. 
Fire Department after 21 years,
In July of 1983, the depart­
rooms and alarms in 5 1/2 as a battalion chief,
ment hired three more fire­
Rogers conducts all of the train­
O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
fighters, according to Rogers. 

Happened to
ing for Notre Dame firefighters. 
"With this computer system, we can activate or deactivate 
Another three were hired in 
Several shelves of books line
June of 1990, bringing the de­
the walls of the training room,
alarms in any part of that build­partment to three officers per 
and the captain is familiar with
ing," he said, pointing to differ­

ll,lbera-tlon
shift. The brothers still live at 
all of them. "This one here," he
ent systems. If a fire were to
the fire station, but no longer 
said, picking up a volume in a
occur, it could be pin-pointed to
go out on runs, Rogers said. 
set of International Fire Safety
the exact location in the build­Students firefighters have been 

1711e0fOIIY1
Training Association manuals,
ing, saving valuable time in anphased out, said Antonucci. 
"this is to firefighters almost
emergency situation, he said.
"This department is what it is 
With
what the Bible is to Catholics."
When an alarm does come in,
today because of Brother 
Medical procedures, safety
firefighters don their equipment
Borromeo and Jack Bland " 
precautions and even mathe­
inside the garage and head 

Fr. Tim Scully, CSC 
Antonucci added. ' 
the five basic facts name 
major year dorm hometown 
BORED YET?? 
Join Communities ND to talk about more 
To sign up or for more information: 
Campus Ministry 103 Hesburgh Library or Badin Hall or call Kate Barrett or Darrell Paulsen 631-5242 
do it today--you'll be worrying about finals tomorrow!! 
1~1
Com~tiesB 0VfUS 
U... a-..lla"9& o( ,o.J..It Clvi•no~;ty MNISTRY 

of the Department of Government and
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• Used books bought and sold 

International Relations and the Hesburgh 
• 25 categories of Books 

Center for International Peace Studies. 
• 
25,!XJO Hardback and 

Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 



lfonday,llecember s
$200 
• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six 

T:aopm
Tuesday through Sunday 

Keenan H:tll Kommons
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 

Refreshments to Follow. .-arJ
1219)232-8444 

TOUR EUROPE THIS SUMMER AND EARN THREE ND CREDITS! 
INTERACT WITH ToP-LEVEL MANAGEMENT & BUSINESS EXECUTIVES 
VISIT 
ROME & FLORENCE, ITALY; lNNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA; MUNICH, GERMANY; 
GENEVA, SWITZERLAND; PARIS, FRANCE; LoNDON, UNITED KINGDOM. 
TRIP DATES-MAY 15m-JUNE W" INFORMATIONAL MEETING DATE:DEC. 6TII, 1994 TIME: 4:30-5:30 PLACE: 220 HAYES HEALY 
SPONSORS: ND MARKETING DEPT. &INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS SEMINARS 
~-------~------------­

Friday, December 2, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Gang members speak about life in Watts 
By PATRICK BELTON three months, and last night's ize there's opportunity .out News Writer drew an overflow crowd to the there." Library Auditorium. "It's my way of giving back to 
Inner-city minorities join Eleven other Notre Dame or-my community," he added. street gangs for different rea­ganizations also sponsored last "Show them that I haven't for-sons, according to the three night's presentation, which gotten about them." gang members from Watts who they promoted under the title spoke at the Hesburgh Library "Justifying a Reality." Auditorium last night. Reynoso's relatives are stay­
Gays
Doris Gutierrez, Miguel ing with students in Keenan, Hodas, and Teresa Romo are Pasquerilla East, and Siegfried 
continued from page 1 
the University's guests through Halls. the weekend, staying in Notre Doris Gutierrez, who is no the promotion of the publicDame dorms and experiencing longer in a gang, is now in col­
welfare, from protecting chil­
student social life. lege. She is a political science 
dren to preventing disease to The gang members identified major and hopes to become a preserving the family simply
protection, power, and cama­probation officer. Gutierrez 
cannot withstand critical 
raderie as the reasons they denies ever making an actual 
scrutiny," he said. 
joined their organizations. decision to leave her gang. She Street gangs provide a measure said "it just happened" when Cicchino was a member of of protection from racially she decided to stay in school, a the Society of Jesus, a Catholic 
motivated violence, derive move which caused her to grow 
order better known as the 
power from their large mem­apart from the other members. 
Jesuits, from 1982 to 1988. He bership, and provide support Gutierrez attributed her ca­graduated from Harvard Law 
that many members cannot find reer choice to a desire to re­School in 1992 and represent­in their families. form abuses in the police sys­
ed the Lesbian and Gay RightsTeacher apathy is also a fac­tem. She has a brother in Project of the American Civil 
tor. One of the speakers re­prison and believes gang mem­Liberties Union at the trial of 
called having an unsupportive bers are often treated unfairly Colorado's anti-gayteacher tell her "you're not go­by the police. Amendment 2. Currently he is ing anywhere." Miguel Rodas, after joining 
serving as Coordinator of the Most members join their his gang and consequently be­Lesbian and Gay Youth Project 
groups when they are in junior ing kicked out of his house, sold of the Legal Action Center for 
high school, the same speaker drugs to support himself. He the Homeless, a non-profitnoted. In many organizations, has spent time in prison. Rodas 
advocacy organization based in 
most gang members are be­stopped selling drugs when he 
New Yor~ City.
tween twelve and sixteen years was married last October, and old. since that time he has worked The three visiting Watts resi­in a body shop. He looks for­dents are all relatives of Jose ward to accumulating enough Fudgetown Gang. Although ing the lecture, he wanted to 
•


Yesterday's article "Balfour
Reynoso, a junior at Notre money to move out of Watts, female gangs usually allow create "an eye-opener, a kind 
awards $1million grant to
Dame and secretary of ·Notre and California, to provide a bet­their members to leave their of awareness call" that would University" incorrectly identi­Dame's League of United Latin ter environment for his wife organization if they wish to lead the Notre Dame and South 
fied the L.G. Balfour
American Citizens (LULAC). and infant daughter. start families, the gangs are not Bend communities to greater Foundation. The article alsoLULAC organizes monthly Teresa Romo is now on pro­so understanding for other sensitivity toward inner-city misrepresented the function olectures to "educate Hispanics bation after assaulting a mem­members who wish to "get minorities. He also had per­
the Balfour-Hesburgh Minority
as well as Notre Dame about ber of a rival organization. She out," she says. In this case, sonal motives in bringing his 
Scholars Program. The pro·
[Hispanic) culture," said described four gangs in Watts: according to Romo, the leaving cousins to Notre Dame. 
gram benefits students who
President Lucy Lopez. her own Chicano Grape Street girl must fight "all the girls, 'till "I hope [by experiencing a will be attending Notre Dame.
Attendance at these lectures Gang, the black East Grape we get tired." college campus) their minds 
The.: Observet+ rets the
has grown steadily in the last Street Gang, the Mexican Polonia Gang, and the black 
One delicious way to save money. 

1
r----------------------------------------------------------------------· 
You are invited to bring th whole family to our
:$ 10 THE HUDDLE $ 10 
I 
I TUESDAy EVENING PIZZA DEAL
$10 DELIVERY DEAL

I Only $6.00 
I I ANY 14" LARGE PIZZA expires:I 
From 5pm till JOpm every tuesday you get-5/30/95
I 
WITH UNLIMITED TOPPINGS ANY LARGE 14" PIZZA WITH UNLIMITED TOPPINGS
I 
AND A 2 LITER COKE OR DIE/' COKE
I expires:
}-2LITER COKE OR DIET COKE

I 5130195 I 
AND BREADSTICKS ( COUPON REQUIRED)

I Simply show up with this coupon, sit back and enjoy! I I 
~----------------------------------­
TheHuddlecall 1-6902forDelivery
TheHuddlecall 1-6902forDelivery 

located on your campus in the LaFortune Student Center 
located on your campus in the LaFortune Student Center we also deliver to University Village Married Student Housing 

One delicious One delicious way to save money. way to save Inoney. 
r-----------------------------------~ 
----------------------------------­
' 

One 14" Large 
ANYTIME SPECIAL -( coupon required ) 
One Topping From The Huddle 
$5.00 1-14" Large 

Two 14" Large 1 Topping Pizza expires: One Topping expires: 
5/30/95 S/30/95
ONLY$5 $9.50( coupon required) 
-----------------------------------· 
TheHuddlecaD 1-6902 forDelivecyT TheHuddlecaD 1-6902forDelivety 
located on your campus in the LaFortune Student Center located on your campus in the LaFortune Student Center we also d!iliver to Fi.~cher Graduate Residences we also deliver to 0 'hara-Grace Graduate Residences 
I 


~--=----­
f ­
Friday, December 2, 1994

: _page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVE RTISEMENT 

r-------~~-~----~~~--~-----------------~------­
Friday, December 2, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 
Hostages taken in Bosnia ussia protests 


By SRECKO LATAL 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

Bosnian Serbs crossed into Croatia and kidnapped U.N. peacekeepers today, in a fur­ther challenge to the United Nations' crumbling efforts to keep control. 
A day after U.N. chief Boutros Boutros-Ghali's failed peace mission, the Serbs also repeat­edly ignored a U.N. request to allow convoys with food and fuel to pass through Serb-held territory, the United Nations said. 
Serbs also fired missiles at Sarajevo and traded heavy ma­chine-gun and small-arms fire with government troops around embattled Bihac, the U.N. de­clared "safe area" in northwest Bosnia. 
The seven Ukrainian peace­keepers kidnapped in Croatia, along with a U.N. armored car­rier, were taken to Serb-held territory, U.N. spokesman 
Alexander Ivanko said in 
Zagreb, Croatia. 
The Ukrainians' observation 
point is now occupied by Serbs, .(vanko said, and the United Nations has been unable to con­
tact its troops. 
More than 400 other U.N. sol­
diers are detained by the Serbs. 
In Sarajevo, U.N. spokesman 
Thant Myint-U said Serbs failed 
to respond to 21 requests to al­
low the passage of its convoys. 
He said food and fuel supplies 
for the United Nations were 
running low in government­
held eastern Bosnian enclaves 
and in Bihac. 
Sarajevo's airport remained 
closed because Serbs denied 
flight clearance, ruling out any 
relief flights to the besieged 
Bosnian capital. 
In downtown Sarajevo, two 
Interior Ministry buildings were 
hit by anti-tank missiles. Four 
people were wounded. In the 
Bihac area, Bosnian Serb forces 
kept the heat on the govern­
ment's hard-pressed 5th Corps, 

JUNIORS 
NBA BASKETBALL ACTION IN 1995 
INDIANA PACERS 
vs. 

PHOENIX SUNS 
THURSDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 26 AT 7:30 
$20 INCLUDES TICKET AND TRANSPORTATION 

Now oN SALE-AT LAFoRTUNE INFO DEsK 
SPONSORED BY THE CLASS OF 96 COU~CIL 
with significant fighting report­ed to the southwest and south of the Bihac pocket, Ivanko said. But there was no immedi­ate information on any changes in the front lines. Serbs are holding 30 percent to 40 per­cent of the so-called safe area. 
The Bosnian army comman­der, Gen. Rasim Delic, pledged that despite recent losses, Bihac would not fall into Serb hands and the government would win the war. 
His comments, published in a Sarajevo newspaper today, un­derscored the government's unwillingness to compromise further to reach a cease-fire and a comprehensive peace. 
Boutros-Ghali has warned that the U.N. may have to with­draw its peacekeepers if fight­ing continues, but the Serbs ­who refused to even meet with the secretary-general Wednesday -seem unfazed by that prospect. 
A withdrawal would likely lead to more fighting and could be dangerous for the departing troops, as both Bosnian Serbs and government forces rush 
U.N. camps to seize equipment before it can be destroyed. 
It also would cause wide­spread hardship because the United Nations feeds an es­timated 3 million people across the former Yugoslavia. Most are in Bosnia. 
In Brussels, Belgium, Secretary of State Warren Christopher told NATO allies today that the Clinton adminis­tration now agrees with its European allies that diplomacy, not force, is the best way to deal with the war. 
Christopher and Douglas Hurd, the British foreign secre­tary, said they may go to Belgrade, the Yugoslav capital, this weekend to preach recon­ciliation. "We will redouble our efforts to find a diplomatic solu­tion," Christopher said. 
Russia's foreign minister, Andrei Kozyrev, said in Paris today that diplomatic alterna­tives remained to be explored. 
"We see some elements which could be promoted, ten­dencies which are encourag­ing," Kozyrev told a news con­ference. 

plans for new alliance 
Associated Press 

BRUSSELS 
Russia stunned a NATO meet­ing Thursday by protesting plans to give membership to East European nations and backed out of a program to im­prove cooperation between Moscow and the alliance. 
Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev was expected to en­dorse the plan approved just hours earlier by NATO foreign ministers. Instead, he criticized it, saying the decision to draw up conditions for future NATO membership would create a new division in Europe. 
His comments cast a pall over the meeting and over NATO's attempt to draw its former Warsaw Pact enemies into its alliance. However, some diplo­mats said they believed that he was playing to an audience back in Russia, where the gov­ernment is contending with a strong nationalist opposition. 
In an effort to overcome Russian objections to its east­ward expansion, the NATO al­lies had agreed to a special re­lationship with Moscow and in­sisted they had no intention of forming a hostile bloc. 
"If the strategy of NATO has changed, then that is some­thing which requires further discussion," Kozyrev told a group of grim-faced foreign ministers of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 
Afterward, Portuguese Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Durao Barroso said Kozyrev ''threw a bucket of cold water on the meeting." 
Kozyrev refused to endorse a wide-ranging program of mili­tary and political contacts with Moscow intended to ease Russia's fears of an eastward drive by the alliance. 
He said he read the minis­ters' statement on membership and immediately called Russian President Boris Yeltsin. 
"This communique raises more questions than it an­swers," Kozyrev said in im­promptu remarks that were broadcast to reporters. "We have to understand what are 

the intentions of the other part­ners." 
, 
U.S. State Department spokesman Mike McCurry said Kozyrev gave no advance warning that he wanted clarifi­cation of the schedule for con-
We Love you! Dad • Morn • Hugh 

sidering new NATO members next year. 
"I would be tempted to say it has to do with domestic politics in Russia," McCurry said. 
Willy Claes, the alliance's new secretary-general, tried to respond to Kozyrev's remarks. 
"It is no change in strategy or policy of NATO .... There is nothing new,'' he told the Russian minister just before he left NATO headquarters. "We are not willing to organize new divisions in Europe." 
Kozyrev's outburst only added to the alliance's woes. 
There have been unprece­dented strains in recent weeks between the .United States and its European allies over Bosnia­Herzegovina. 
In an effort to heal the wounds, Secretary of State Warren Christopher swung behind the European view that diplomacy, not force, is the best way to deal with the conflict. It was a major policy switch by Washington under pressure from the Europeans, led by Britain and France. 
NATO has been anguishing in recent years over whether ­and when -to open its doors to its former foes in central and eastern Europe. 
Poland, Hungary and others have repeatedly demanded NATO membership and the se­curity guarantees that would go with it. 
In an effort to meet their de­mands, but without upsetting Russia, the allies thought they had found a good formula. 
At a summit last January, President Clinton and other al­lied leaders approved a U.S. initiative, Partnership for Peace, to bring former foes closer, but without member­ship. 
Twenty-three nations, includ­ing Russia, have enrolled in the project, which allows them to take part for the first time in military exercises and other al­liance activities. 
On Thursday, the allies de­cided to go further by ordering aides to conduct a 12-month study of the terms and condi­tions for expanding the Western military alliance. 
"We took significant, con­crete ships toward ... expan­sion" of the alliance, Christopher said afterward. 
The move was intended to be a cautious one. 
Are Finals Stressing You Out? Come Take A Break At ·Breakfast served all day ·Lunch ·Dinner ·Or a snack ANYTIME Just Minutes from Campus 4•eli > PatioOPEN cl: 0 ~ E24 HOURS "'0 1710 N. Ironwood 277-7400  

page 8 The Observer • GATT NEWS Friday, December 2, 1994 
GATT overwhelmingly approved by Senate 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate overwhelmingly 

approved a historic 124-nation, 
tariff-slashing trade agreement 
Thursday night, bringing to a 
close a strife-filled 103rd 
Congress with a rare note of bi­
partisan unity. 
President Clinton called the 

vote a "victory for America" 
and said he hopes it is a har­
binger of cooperation between 
his administration and 
Republicans who soon will as­
sume control of Congress. 
Final congressional approval 

to the General Agreement on 
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) came 
on a 76-24 vote in the Senate. 
The House on Tuesday had ap­
proved the accord, the most 
sweeping rewrite of global 
trading rules in four decades. 
Congressional leaders, 

Democrats and Republicans 
alike, joined Clinton at a victory 
celebration on the South Lawn 
of the White House. 
"Let's make the GATT vote 

the first vote of a new era of co­
operation," said Clinton, who 
was joined by Democrats and 
Republicans alike in a victory 
celebration on the south lawn 
of the White House. "America's 
best days are ahead of us." 
Clinton said the GATT agree­
ment would increase world 
trade, bringing new, high-wage 
jobs to the United States. 
Departing Senate Democratic 

Leader George Mitchell said the 
vote sends a signal to the world 
that America and its workers 
remain the world's leaders. 
"We do not fear competition; 
we welcome it. We do not 
shrink from the future; we wel­
come that," Mitchell said. 
Republican Leader Sen. Bob 
Dole, who will assume 
Mitchell's post as majority 
leader in January, said the vote 
was an example of how biparti­
sanship can work. 
"This was not about some 
new world order," Dole said. 
"This was about jobs and op­
portunities for Americans. It 
was all about trade. All about 
the future. All about America. 
And all about our place in the 
world." 
Just minutes before .the final vote, the Senate voted 68-32 to waive its on budget rules and remove the last procedural standing in the way of GATT's passage. Sixty votes were need­ed for the crucial budget waiv­er. On it, the accord was sup­ported by 31 Republicans and 37 Democrats and was opposed by 15 Republicans and 17 Democrats. 
Clinton, badly in need of a congressional victory to lift his battered fortunes following the November elections, had worked throughout the day to convince wavering lawmakers to support the deal. 
Opponents charged that the approval of the global trade agreement was a serious set­back to American workers and could cause middle class voters to turn against both parties. 
"I think today's vote will mark the turning point in the breakup of the two-party sys­tem by new political forces soon to be unleashed," consumer activist Ralph Nader said. "This vote has to be seen as a repudi­ation of the majority of the American people and a victory for global corporations." 
The 124-nation trade agree­ment cuts tariffs by an average of 38 percent worldwide, and for the first time extends GATT rules to such new areas as re­duction of trade-distorting agri­culture subsidies, lowering trade barriers in service indus­tries, such as banking and clamping down on copyright piracy. 
It also creates a more power­ful World Trade Organization to referee trade disputes and eliminates the one-country veto that a losing nation could use to block an adverse ruling. 
Supporters said the agree­ment, by cutting the border taxes Americans have to pay while at the same time lower­ing barriers U.S. businesses and farmers face overseas, would provide a tremendous boost to the U.S. economy. 
The Clinton administration estimated this would create a half-million new jobs and mean an annual increase of $150 bil­lion in U.S. economic growth a decade from now, when the deal is fully implemented. That extra growth would put $1 , 700 more a year in the pockets of the average family, the admin­istration said. 
However, opponents charged that the WTO represented a dangerous encroachment on 
U.S. sovereignty. They said that seven previous GATT negotiat­ing rounds to lower trade bar­riers have not cured America's chronic trade deficit nor stopped the hemorrhage of manufacturing jobs overseas. They warned that in textiles alone, one of America's most protected industries, 1 million jobs could be lost. 
"We are not leading in world trade. We are losing," Sen. Ernest Hollings, a Democrat from South Carolina, a leading textile state, said during floor debate. "The reality is that we are in decline. Everybody knows that." 
The administration was anx­ious for a healthy bipartisan victory margin as a way to show that a Democratic White House will be able to work next year with the first Republican­controlled Congress in four decades. 
The Senate vote followed a surprisingly large 142-vote margin of victory in the House on Tuesday. Before the con­gressional action, only 36 other nations had approved GATT. But many other nations were simply waiting to see what the United States did. The agree­ment is scheduled to go into ef­fect on Jan. 1. 
The debate over the WTO came during the first lame­duck session of Congress in 12 years. 

Senate passes GAI I 
The Senate passed the 
GATT accord Thursday, 
two days after the 
House approved~
the world trade 
agreement. 
' 

The vote·~~ 
76 for. 24 against 
What's next 


So far, only 36 of 1 24 member nations have approved the accord. Most were only waiting for the U.S. vote, and the pact is scheduled to take effect Jan. 1, 1995. 
What the accord means 


patents. 
e It creates a World Trade 
Organization to oversee trade 
disputes. 
AP 

All Merchandise 20% off 




Main Lounge, LaFortune Student Center Thursday, December 1 12:00 to 9:00pm Friday, December 2 12:00 to 7:00pm The Newest in Notre Dame Apparel eBVJJJ 

...--~-------:--~-----~-~ ·--~----­
Friday, December 2, 1994 
Clinton friend to plead guilty in Whitewater 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Former Associate Attorney General Webb Hubbell, one of President Clinton's close friends, will plead guilty to two felony charges brought by the Whitewater prosecutor, a source close to the investiga­tion said Thursday. 
The source, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said Hubbell, 46, would admit to tax evasion and mail fraud under an agreement with indepen­dent counsel Kenneth Starr. 
Hubbell has been under in­vestigation by Starr over alle­gations that he overbilled legal clients, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. 
The source would not say whether the charges were di­rectly related to the alleged overbillings. It could not be learned immediately whether Hubbell has agreed to cooper­ate with prosecutors as part of the plea. 
News reports over the last week indicated Starr was close to seeking an indictment of Hubbell. But Hubbell agreed to enter a guilty plea instead, said the source close to the investi­gation. 
Hubbell's lawyer, John 
Nields, declined comment Thursday. Starr and White House aide Bruce Lindsey, a confidant of both Clinton and Hubbell, also declined com­ment, their offices said. 
A mail fraud charge could arise if a lawyer sent false bills to clients. And if such billings led someone to be reimbursed for expenses not actually in­curred, that could lead to tax evasion charges. 
A former law partner of first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, Hubbell resigned March 14 as the No. 3 Justice Department official after disclosures that his billings as a private lawyer were being questioned by his former colleagues at the pres­tigious Rose Law Firm in Little Rock. 
In March, The Associated Press reported that documents suggested the Rose Law Firm, under Hubbell's supervision, may have double-billed the government for at least $29,400 in S&L cleanup work, according to two federal offi­cials familiar with the case. Hubbell's work involved the failed Madison Guaranty S&L, which was owned by the Clintons' Whitewater business partners and has now become a key focus of Starr's investiga­tion. 

Our $278,000 5 year old home, all one level, 2570 sq.ft., RE appraisal $262,000 located on the north bank of the St. Joe across from Orchard Hills CC is 
FOR SALE BY OWNER $259,000 
Shown by appointment: 3000 White Oaks Lane Buchanan, MI 
(616) 695 ..5958 

(22 minutes from Notre Dame, 90 minutes from Chicago) 
--------~ -~-------~-----------~--~--~------, 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
It's beginning to look a lot like ... 

Lights decorating trees in front of St. Ed's brighten up campus on a cold winter night. 

By JOHN RICE for this nation of 90 million. Associated Press But not everyone wanted to celebrate. MEXICO CITY "Out with Zedillo!" and 
Ernesto Zedillo became pres­"Zedillo No!" shouted more ident today, capping a tumul­than 4,000 anti-government tuous year that saw an Indian demonstrators, some brandish­rebellion, political assassina­ing sticks and machetes, at a tions and the opening of protest in downtown Mexico Mexico's economy in the North City. American Free Trade The protesters, mostly farm­Agreement. ers in straw sombreros, raised 
The 42-year-old economist banners of the leftist took the red, green and white Democratic Revolution Party, sash of office, promising to use the biggest opponent to 65 his six-year term to carry out years of rule by the Institutional political and economic reforms Revolutionary Party. 
Police did not intervene. The 
protests took place more than a 
mile from the ornate Chamber 
of Deputies, where Vice President Al Gore and Cuba's
VARSITY SHOP . 

President Fidel Castro were among international guests at the inauguration. 
Zedillo, a former Mexicali shoeshine boy, received a doc­
BOXING ROOM 

torate in economics from Yale. Bypassed once for his party's presidential nomination, he was thrust into the campaign by the
CHRISTMAS SALE 
March assassination of Luis Donaldo Colosio, first choice of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRJ. 
He won the presidency Aug. 21 in the most credible elec­tions ever held in Mexico. 
Zedillo has pledged to use the near-absolute powers of Mexico's presidency to weaken his own office. 
JHe says he will give greater independence to the congress, the courts and local govern­ments as well as the PRJ itself. He says he will end the practice of having the president hand­pick all top PRJ can~ipates. 
Zedillo, former l]fldget and planning minister under President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, is sure to continue his predecessor's free-market eco­nomic policies -a commitment underlined by the Cabinet choices announced Wednesday. 
Leading negotiators of 
NAFT A were naf·ed heads of ~reasury, trade a d foreign pol­Icy. 
-

({;ttravelmore
JACC (ENTER AT GATE 3) 
~ ~Carlson Travel Network 
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3Ro THRU WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 21sT 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is 
your local Europe Travel Specialist 
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 

Let us send you to Europe!
2 P.M. TO 6 P.M. 

*Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. 
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY 

Low airfares to Europe. *Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office!
10 A.M. TO 4 P.M. 

No service fee! Timetables, prices, tickets available! *Car Rentals Discounted car rentals! Available in all European Countries! *Experience Over 20 years experience working with
?lttwt'f e""uenuu 

Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. 
a,n-d ~4/l-P'f 1te"" *~ 
We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. 
";~t-6m t~e 11tJtlt4,tt'f S~6p 
-Next to the Notre Dame campus­(219) 271-4880 
page 10 The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 2, 1994 
Ferry sinks 

Income growth outpacing spending
off coast of By JAMES H. RUBIN markably well," he added. Disposable income -income said Bruce Steinberg of Merrill 
Associa1ed Press "There aren't any dark after taxes -also climbed 1.4 Lynch & Co. But, he added, clouds." percent in October. "that pace is unsustainable."
Philippines 

WASHINGTON Analysts said new sales fig­Americans' savings rate -The Federal Reserve has Incomes are growing so ures show the Christmas season savings as a percentage of dis­raised interest rates six times rapidly that free-spending began strongly for retailers, posable income -rose to 4. 7 this year, most recently on Nov.
Associa1ed Press 

Americans aren't keeping up­helping to overcome a weak percent in October, from 4.1 15. Analysts expect the next 
MANILA, Philippines 
A ferry carrying close to 500 people collided with a freighter and sank before dawn Friday in Manila Bay, news reports and the Philippine coast guard re­ported. 
Some passengers were res­cued by the freighter, radio sta­tion DZRII reported. A reporter in a plane over the site said there were rubber rafts in the water but said it wasn't clear whether anyone was in them. 
The vessels collided at 4:10 
a.m. {3:10 p.m. EST Thursday) near the town of Maragondon, about 35 miles southwest of Manila in Cavite province near the mouth of Manila Bay, radio reports said. 
The ferry MY Cebu City sank 30 minutes later, the reports said. 
Its manifest listed 488 pas­sengers, according to news re­ports. However, it is common in the Philippines for ferries to carry many more passengers than are listed on their mani­fests. 
The ship was coming from Tagbilaran, capital of Bohol Island, about 350 miles south­east of Manila. 
The Singapore-registered freighter Kota Soria, with a crew of 26, did not sink, news reports said. 
• 
MON., NOV. 28th 
12:59 p.m. A University em­ployee reported vandalism to her vehicle while parked in the A16lot. 
5:09p.m. A Fischer Grad. resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
9:40p.m. A Keenan Hall resi­dent reported damage to the screens in his dorm room windows. 
TUES., NOV. 29th 
7:19 ..m. A Zahm Hall resi· dent was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an injury sus­tained during a fall. 
5 p.m. A Breen-Phillips resi­dent reported receiving a ha­rassing phone call. 
7 p.m. An Alumni Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his wallet from his room. 
WEDS., NOV. 30th 
9 a.m. A Fischer Grad. resi­dent reported his vehicle was damaged In a hit and run accident while parked in front of his apartment. 
9:46p.m. An otT-campus stu­dent was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
and therefore the savings rate is improving, new figures show. 
A flurry of reports Thursday points to a remarkably strong economy with "no dark clouds," said one private ana­lyst. 
A day after reporting that the economy expanded in the third quarter more rapidly than ear­lier estimates, the Commerce Department released data that suggest the fourth quarter got off to a quick start. 
Americans' income surged 
1.4 percent in October, the biggest jump in eight months and the ninth straight gain, the department said. 
With millions more Americans employed and being paid more, analysts expect a strong Christmas shopping sea­son that got off to a brisk start last week. 
Spurred by a big gain in av­erage hourly earnings and bonus pay for auto workers, the income advance easily out­paced consumer spending ­which rose 0. 7 percent in October for its strongest show­ing since a 0. 9 percent rise in August. 
"These are very strong num­bers," said economist Eugene Sherman of the Wall Street firm of M.A. Schapiro & Co. "It's a very positive figure on the in­come side, so much so that peo­ple saved more money. And you know how much Americans hate to save." 
"Everything is doing re-
early November when warmer weather held down clothing purchases. Many analysts pre­dict a 6 percent sales increase for the holiday season. 
In other reports: 
-Construction spending rose 
0.9 percent in October, the sec­ond straight gain, although the advance was limited to non-res­idential and government spend­ing. The Commerce Department said residential spending, near­ly half of construction outlays, fell. 
-The Labor Department said the number of Americans filing the first time for state unemployment benefits dropped last week to the lowest level in two months. 
-American manufacturing surged in November to its strongest level in 10 years and its 15th straight month of growth, said a widely followed survey by the National Association of Purchasing Managers. 
The stock market tumbled as the Dow Jones industrial aver­age fell more than 38 points. Bond prices were weaker but recovered most of their early losses. 
The Commerce Department said the income gain was the largest since it rose 1. 7 percent in February. Income last fell in January, when it slipped 0.6 percent. In September, per­sonal income increased 0.6 per­cent and spending rose just 0.2 percent. 

Fox's Jewelers University Park Mall, 6501 Grape Road 272-0488 
An authorized TAG Heuer dealer. 
trMspoorta 

Sweaters, Clothit}g, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much More! 
Guatemala • Peru • Mexico • NepalThailand • India • Ecuador 
Incredible Pricee;! 
Great Chrie;tmae; Gifte;! 

percent the previous month. The new rate is the highest since April 1993, when it was 5 percent. 
Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the nation's gross domestic prod­uct, was up for the sixth straight month and eight of the last nine. 
On Wednesday, the govern­ment reported that the econ­omy expanded at a 3.9 percent annual rate in the third quarter of 1994 despite rising interest rates and is on target for its best yearly performance in six years. The figure was revised upward from a 3.4 percent es­timate a month earlier. 
"The current quarter is off to a brisk start and fourth quarter consumer spending could rise at around a 3.5 percent rate," boost to come Feb. 1 when Fed policy-makers conclude a two­day meeting. 
Private wages and salaries, the most closely watched com­ponent of income, increased at a $45.6 billion annual rate in October compared to an $18.5 billion rise in September. It was the biggest jump in that cate­gory since April 1993 when pri­vate wages soared at a $92.5 billion rate. 
The Commerce Department said incomes in October were also boosted by a big jump in subsidy payments to farm own­ers. But even excluding that factor and the bonus pay in the auto industry, personal income rose 1 percent. 
The income and spending fig­ures were not adjusted for inflation. 

Arian rocket carrying US satellite crashes 
Associa1ed Press Agency rocket program lifted 
off 15 years ago and became 

KOUROU, French Guiana the world's most successful 
An unmanned Ariane rocket launcher of lucrative private carrying a U.S.-made commu­satellites. nications satellite crashed into Technicians at the the Atlantic Ocean 15 minutes Arianespace launching pad on after takeoff Thursday due to the edge of the South American third-stage engine failure. jungle said that the third-stage 
The crash was the seventh in engine inexplicably lost pres­
70 launches since the com­sure 135 miles above Earth. 
mercial European Space 
GIVEME A BREAK! 
,SPRING BREAK 
Hang out in: 
O@(jjgj@{f}{/] 

o~(f) wllfJJ lj)!lJ rvff}c; 0;ga!lJfJJrv 
ofl)!lJm!lJ fli1!lJ;g 0 (}IJ0 (j]])J@ff};g 
Call New Horizons Travel "Your Party Planners" 
(800)639~4674 or (219)273~4934 51529 Bittersweet Rd., Granger, IN Cull our 24 hour hotline for the latest specials: (219)277-9749 
Are you interested in a position on the Notre Dame campus next summer (June 26 to August 5) as a Youth Coordinator for the NCAA National Youth Sports Program? The position provides room and board on campus, three hours of academic credit, and a tuition stipend of $1200. Each coordinator will be in charge of a group of twenty 10-to 16-year old kids from economically disadvantaged backgrounds in our local community. These 10 positions are part of Notre Dame's overall Summer Service Program. Call Sue Cunningham at 1-7867. 


r 
VIEWPOINT 

Friday, December 2, 1994 page 11 
THE OBSERVER NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 1994-95 General Board Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller .•....••.........•.............•..... Kristen Martina The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe students of rhe University of Norre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi· torials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in~Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary"s com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu  .  DO DRUGS. DO TRANSPLANT.  

• CAPITOL CoMMENTS 
Newt's battleplan: Peace through strength 
Champagne or cardboard moving boxes were the only types of deliveries to Congressional offices the day fol­lowing the election. It was not hard to tell where each was headed, depend­ing upon who worked for the Democrats and who worked for the Republicans. For one uniquely ironic moment, the first in forty years, silent shock pierced the majority while jubi­lation bubbled within the minority. 
Gary 
Caruso 


"BN," before Newt Gingrich, both parties conducted themselves with comedy during official deliberations as well as after hours. However, "AN," after Newt's arrival in the late 1970's, those niceties gradually dissipated. The Speaker-to-be reasoned that guerrilla warfare was the only way to change the long-entrenched Republican minority status. So he came to Congress and attacked fellow Republicans along with Democrats. 
As much as it pains me to say this (as a Democrat), I give Gingrich great credit for his accomplishment. He nationalized the last election as a ref­erendum against President Clinton. Ever wonder why so many campaigns these days are so nasty and negative? Two words: Newt Gingrich. 
I admit he is not completely re­sponsible for negative advertising. What he has done though, is show that a great negative campaign with a sprinkling of positive agenda (ten points within his The Contract with America) can move mountains in poli­tics. However, for me the old adage "You get what you deserve" seems more appropriate. 
Who were the people who swept the Republicans into power in the last election? More women and minorities voted for the Democrats. It was the white males who voted overwhelm­ingly Republican. Many were upset with the President's stand on gays in the military. Many more men were following the simplistic rigid rhetoric of the National Rifle Association. For them, the Constitution's second amendment also triumphed on November 8th because they expect the Republicans to repeal parts of the Crime Bill regarding their precious assault rifles. 
I stood at a few polling places on election day working for Harris Wofford for Senate and Frank Mascara for Congress. Both are Democrats. Both are my friends. Wofford lost his seat and Mascara won an open seat (only one of thirteen Democrats to do so this year). Some nut, and I am being as polite as I can be, stood there working for the Republican candidate for Congress cit­ing the second amendment every time a voter went past us. My candidate beat his in the House race, but he and his fellow gun guys beat Wofford in the statewide Senate race. 
The latest edition of U.S. News and World Report shares a few politically correct examples of the types of peo­ple who are in our country. Many of these crusaders are one issue candi­dates like my nutty NRA friend. Usually they alone cannot make or break elections. Note the Right to Life movement's little success to date. More notable, however, is that move­ment's slow takeover by the "nut ele­ment" who advocate killing doctors. Maybe the answer is to shoot at every pickup with an NRA sticker on it so they might get a chance to use their assault weapons. 
While I stretch to make my point, some frightening people vote in this country. I read with interest four of 
U.S. News and World Report's politi­cally correct examples. The first was about a Mississippi man (probably a Democrat) who sued a publisher over the contents of the Bible. He claimed that the book was hearsay and oppressed blacks and gays. 
The second example occurred at Swathmore College where the College Conservative Union wanted to fly the American flag. They reasoned that it would bring together students. After all, it was not a conservative thing. It was an American thing. However, other students (maybe Democrats, probably Socialists) protested that the flag represented oppression of minori­ties and acts of American imperialism. The protesting students dubbed the flag, "Old Goofy," and dressed up as star-spangled drag queens (probably 
' Also, if you keep a physical 
distance from a known gay or stare at two gays holding hands, then you violate their pol­icy. No wonder Ollie North got Virginia's Republican Senatorial nomination.' 
mostly Democrats!). The college presi­dent (probably Republican) settled the matter by saying that the use of the flag was appropriate because the col­lege is located in America. To which one of the drag queens (probably the token Socialist) replied that their president regarded "Old Goofy" as a giant "You are here" sign. 
The third example comes from George Mason University, located in suburban Washington. They define harassment and discrimination as flinching or jumping when a homosex­ual touches your arm, or thinking that a homosexual might come on to you. Also, if you keep a physical distance from a known gay or stare at two gays holding hands, then you violate their policy. No wonder Ollie North got Virginia's Republican Senatorial nomination. 

Finally, the University of Alabama topped all of the political correct sto­ries. The university administration (maybe new Democrats or maybe Democrats turned Republicans-! cannot say) mandated that a play, Look Away, Dixie, have a color-blind casting. What that did was make an isolated white group integrated, thus creating unintended racial scenes of sex and revenge. Rather than allow the writer to change some characters to make a 19 percent black quota, the school canceled the play. 
These are some of the types who elected the next Congress. One thing for sure, the next two years will not be business as usual. Or maybe the American public will see that it really is business as usual regardless of the controlling party. That is, unless you fall into the Republican constituency of big business, rifle owners, and bal­anced budget freaks. Sorry, I must have been thinking of those polite gentile Democrats who were reducing that enormous deficit the Republicans created but not practicing "Newt Warfare" in the last, and for some their last, campaign. Maybe Republicans really can obtain peace through strength. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, has worked in Washington, D. C. at the 
U.S. House of Representatives for two Congressmen and two House Committees. His column appears every other Friday. 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• DOONESBURY 


''Goodness, armed with 
power, is corrupted; and pure love without power is destroyed." 
-Reinhold Neibuhr 

Beyond Tragedy, 1938 

ACCENT

page 12 Friday, December 2, 1994 
Trenchmouth wi II rock The Loft 
By CHACHI SOSTAK Special to The Ohserver 
"Where do I go for modernization? Step Up! Step Up! Are you in or out? Follow the map etched on your finger­tips, click your heels and disappear from sight."-from "Power to the Amplifier", writtfm and performed by Trenchmouth. 
New concepts keep music fresh and alive, and bands which invent such con­cepts foreshadow the future of music. 
Tonight, the Loft Series, a collabora­tion between Student Union Board and WVFI AM 640, brings you the final 1994 musical installment in the form of a conceptually unprecedented band: Trenchmouth. 
The show begins at 9:00 pm in the LaFortune Ballroom (the loft) with a cost of only one dollar. Opening the concert is BumBle Flea. a thoroughly intriguing Columbus quintet using a saxophone to offset its reggae/hardcore Bad Brains­esque appeal. 
Trenchmouth defines the Chicago independent rock scene. From the past success of such bands as the Jesus Lizard, Chicago has become the inde­pendent mecca for modern rock and that "one day (Trenchmouth) will rule took them to many top East Coast clubs. January carries both the Skene and roll. ' the world". Their live show incorporates an amaz­EastWest logos, symbolizing that the 
Within the last year, Trenchmouth has Fred Armisen, Trenchmouth's drum­ing stage show with Damon Locks, music has not changed sinee moved to the forefront of the Chicago mer, reluctantly labels the band as, Trenchmouth's vocalist, flailing around Trenchmouth's early days. scene, headlining many of the city's pre­" ... riding that fine line between punk the stage singing and thrashing random miere underground venues. rock and experimental rock and roll." percussion; Armisen and bassist, WVFI was sent a promotional copy of 
Their sound can only be described as Specifically, Armisen point to their use Wayne Montana, walking up and down the new album, and Music Director excitingly eclectic. Mixing hardcore of "wild tempo variations, feel changes, tight, tantalizing rhythmic paths; and Bootsie McEachern joyfully claims. "This roots, funk, intelligent hip-hop, ska, and wise lyrics, rhythm, rhythm, and Chris De Zutter, guitarist, painting musi­is great. I love these guys, I really love tribal percussion, the band produces a rhythm ... .! guess we have moved as far cal abstractions over the driving tour de them!" Assistant Musie Direetor Lael unique and passionate sound. away from straight ahead hardcore as force. Tyler hints, "Every time I think about 
Their second record, entitled Inside possible while still being considered by Also within the last years they have the time I saw Trenchmouth live, I get the Future, was a sleeper success on many as a punk rock band. It's just taken an interesting jump from the chills all over. The new album captures college radio in November of 1993. that labels don't become us. We are the Mineapolis based Skene Hecords to the that exhilarating feel." 
In fact, WVFI charted the album in the music, not some label." major label EastWest. In a phone top ten for over four weeks and received More recently, Trenchmouth has con­conversation, Armisen hinted that the This feel and the future of in­rave reviews from 1993 music director, tinued its success performing and tour­label move was based on distribution. dependent rock will engulf the Joe Cannon: "Skewed, awesome schtuff. ing with indie rock giants Jawbox, as "We hoped that Inside the Future LaFortune Ballroom tonight. The Loft DO IT!" well as travelling alone on their own could be heard by a couple more people. committee is antieipating a large crowd, 
As if such a review is not convincing tours. We would like our next album to be dis­so get there early; and while you're at enough, City Pages, a Minneapolis music The Loft show marks their third to last tributed just a bit better." it, bring a keen ear and your dancing 'zine, cited Inside the Future as proof show on their month long trek which The new album which hits stores in shoes. 
rr;tfarlr-tjaf~~irte~~ ~ee~eate a~t!ftteel(t~ eel(tar-1 e~~~~tma~ 
guests through the evening. 
The festivities will begin with two toasts with wassail (warm mulled appln cider) and a musi­cal tribute to the boar's head. Guests will dine on a feast of Baron of Beef au jus, Pommys De Terre Y-Hosted, Carottes Endured, Winter Sallet. Wastylbrede, Puddying of Plommes and drink plenty of Wassail. 
"For the College it is our main Christmas event ... as far as music or choirs go. Madrigals are our secular partieipation during Christmas timn," stated Menk. 

She eontinued, "Most of the students do not attend because of the cost, which is $24.50. I don't know if it adds anything to the student body. However, it is bringing Saint Mary's into the community, because it is mostly community members that at­tend it. In other words, it is sort of an outreaeh for the College, so it really does not affect the students, except for the stu­By MOYA SOMERSET catering staff will recreate a Madrigals originated in Dinner' is sort of a misnomer dents who participate. Madrigal Accent Writer 16th century Elizabethan feast England, but the music selec­but that is just what these are the students one chance to which takes place at a lord's tions that will be performed are events are called." sing a lot of earlier music, more 
This Friday, Saturday and manor. The actors and musi­16th century English, French, Renaissance style music, be­Sunday nights the Department cians will perform to feasts German and Spanish carols. Dr. "This is the only time in my cause this type of music is suit­of Music will be presenting the seating 200 guests. Nancy Menk, Chair of the music life that I will wear a skirt and ed for small ensembles rather 22nd annual Madrigal department, and music director tights in public," said senior vo­than bigger choral groups." Christmas Dinners in the For the first time this year, for the Madrigal Dinners calist Tim Hipp, "but I have The chorus began their two Regina North Lounge. instead of using students, the explained, "Most madrigals are nice legs so that will not be a hour, bi-weekly rehearsals, 
Madrigal Dinners will feature not Christmas related, and I problem." beginning in October and up 
For the dinners, the Madrigal the Orpheus Concort, a profes­like to keep the theme really until their performances this Singers, Royal Consort (musi­sional early music and Christmas-y because it is the Master of the House, Mike weekend. cians playing recorders, harpsi­Renaissance group to play the only thing we do for Christmas. Kersey, and jester, Mary Dini, "Madrigals are a lot of fun, chord and trumpets). and the recorders and harpsiehord. And so in a sense a 'Madrigal will entertain as they usher the but the rehearsals are very 


------------------------------------~~----------------------------------------------------~------·------~--------------·------------~---------­
;ACCENT

Friday, December 2, 1994 page 13 
• 
Notre Dame explores history of the Holocaust: •• 
Concentration camp survivor will speak at Washington Hall 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
Accent Writer 
The result of a daily confrontation of death, fear and oppression for Zev Kedem was a profound appreciation and celebration of life. 
A World War II concentra­
tion camp survivor, Kedem will lecture this Monday on "Schindler's List: A Survivor Celebrates Life." 


S t e v e n Zev Kedem Spiel berg's Academy Award-winning "Schindler's List" recounts the story of Oskar Schindler's acts in Nazi Germany. A Nazi industrialist, Schindler in effect, saved Kedem's life and the lives of his mother and sister by actually "buying" them along with Schindler's "purchase" of 1100 Jews. Kedem was sent to Auschwitz when he was only eight years old. !lis mother. Selma had smuggled him into Plaszow where children under the age of 13 were not allowed. When Plaszow was closed down, the doctor at Schindler's factory and Selma's lover, saw to it that the family was sent to the Brinnlitz factory. Kedem's father had already died in a concentration camp. So the family was transferred to the Brinnlitz factory. But after just a few days, the Nazi commandant, realizing Kedem was too young to remain at Brinnlitz. had him sent to Auschwitz. · The only time Kedem saw his mother and sister again over the next 40 years was when they were on a train routed to death rather than Schindler's factory. lie finally saw his mother ,again in Poland in 
1985. 
In just three years, Kedem was sent to six different concentration camps, surviving only by what he describes as winning in a terrible adventure. 
"Death cold, and darkness" are the words used to describe the days Kedem spent in the numerous concentration camps before being rescued by being placed on Schindler's List. 
"Spiel berg did a remarkable job recreating what happened, but the reality was much worse. There is no way to eKpress the terror, the evil around us." 
Kedem consulted on and ap­peared in Spielberg's movie. 
Referring to his years in the concentration camps as his "years of alternate education," Kedem says that he learned how precious life is and how it is to be appreciated. 
After being rescued, Kedem was sent to live in a British or­phanage. He received a degree in engineering from Oxford University, married, and finally wound up in California with six children, and four grandchil­dren from two failed mar­riages. 
People Magazine quoted Kedem as saying after reflect­ing on his work with the movie "Schindler's List," "People should understand it's not enough to be good. One has to act against evil." 
It is said that those who do not learn history the first time are condemned to repeat it. Those who have witnessed human injustice and those who have been the victims of irrev­erence toward life are reminders of, and links to, the horrific history which cannot be repeated. 
1
Kedem will speak this Monday at 7:30 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information desk for $2. 


Steven Spielberg's Academy Award-winning film 'Schindler's List" recapitulates the atrocities the Jews faced in Germany during World War II. 
Movie depicts horror of Nazi Germany 

'Dear 1(jtty, 
rr1ie (jermans ring at every front aoor to inquire iftirere are any Jews uving in tfie fwuse. Iftirere are, tiren tire wfwkfamify lias to go at once. Iftfiey aon 't find any, tfuygo on to tire TU((j fwuse. 9.{p one lias a cfiance ofevading tirem unless one goe.s into liUimg. Often, tlieygo around with fists, and un£y ring wlien tney f;tww tliey can get a goot£ ftaui. Somttimes tfi.ey kt tirem offfor cash-so mudi per lieat!. It seems ~ tlie sfave liunts ofoUt.n times. '13ut its c.ertainfy nojofc.e; its mudi too tragic for tliat. In tlie evenings wlien its tfar~ I often see rows of gooti, innocent peopfe accompanietf6y crying cliiitfren, waffc.mg on and on, in tlie cfiarge ofa coupfe oftliese cliaps, 6uf£ietfand fcrt,ock¢ a6out until tfiey afmost tfrop. 9.{p one is sparetf· oUpeopk, 6afries, ezyectant nwtfters, tlie sict eacli and a!ijoin in tlie marcli oftfeatli. 
!Howfortunate we are liere, so we££wret£for andutufistur6et£. We 'll)(tU[dn 't liave to worry a6out a{[ this misery were it not tliat we are so ~a6out a{[ tfwse t£ear to us wfwm we can no Conger fie{p. 
I fedwick¢sf.eeping in awarm &,£ wlii1e my dearest.frient£s liave 6un ~aown or liave fafkn into a gutter somewhere out in tlie coU niglit. Iget friglitend wlien I tliinfc.ofdose j'rient£s wfw liavt now Pun. tfeuveretfinto tlie liarnfs oft/ie. croefest 6rntes tliat Ula{{tire tllTtli. Jll.mf a{[ 6ecause tirey are Jews! 
This is aletter from The Diaries of Anne Frank, ayoung girl's account of the World War II events in Adolph Hitler's Nazi Germany. 
ByLARRYWARD 
Accent Writer 
Schindler's List, which won an Academy Award for Best Picture and also won Steven Spielberg the Academy Award for Best Director, will be play­ing this Friday at 7 and 10 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. 
This inspirational film is the portrayal of how one man was able to save thousands of Jewish men, women, and chil­dren from destruction in the Nazi concentration camps dur­ing World War II. 
Oskar Schindler, an influen­tial industrialist was able to save Jewish people from death by placing names of Jewish people on a list. 
Those names that composed this list were permitted to leave the concentration camps to work for Schindler in one of his factories. 
While telling the story of the survival of these Jews, Spielberg magnificently por­trays the horrors the Jewish people faced during the Second World War. 
The movie includes vivid por­trayals of how Nazis would de­stroy and loot Jewish neighbor­hoods. 

The viewer of the movie is witness to the mass death and destruction that occurred each and every time the German sol­diers marched through a Jewish neighborhood. 
The movie also includes scenes that truly display at least a glimpse at the horror of the Nazi concentration camps. 
These scenes show how the German soldiers simply would shoot at Jewish people and kill them just for fun. 
The movie captivates the viewer with all of these power­ful scenes that demonstrate the horrors thousands of Jewish people faced as they were muti­lated by German Nazi soldiers. 
"Schindler's List" was filmed almost entirely in black and white. 
This effect truly adds .anoth­er dimension to the film. The black and white effect fills the viewer with a sense of depres­sion as well as setting the World War II time period. 
Spielberg does an excellent job of historically representing how Hitler's attempt at the genocide of Jewish people was spoiled at least in part by one man-Oskar Schindler. 
The actors in the movie were quite realistic in their portrayal of their characters. 
Liam Neeson did a wonderful job in playing the role of the great Oskar Schindler. 
Neeson's performance was admired by movie critics every­where. In fact, he was nomi­nated for the Best Actor Academy Award. 
All aspects of the movie were done realistically in order to depict the horrid acts and human degradation. 
The viewer comes to feel as if all scenes of nudity, violence, and vulgarity were mandatory in the true depiction of the story. 
This movie is definitely a movie that should be seen by everyone, in order that we may all understand the torture Jewish people faced during World War II. 
Perhaps in viewing theatrical depictions of the atrocities which historically occurred, we can prevent the recurrence of any such displays of disrespect for human life. 
"Schindler's List" is one of the 
most moving films of our time 
and the opportunity to see it 
should not be missed. 
---~----------------------·----~------------------------~-----------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 2, 1994 
• •NBA 

Magic take hard way
Bowe takes on Donald, critics to NBA's best record
in next heavyweight bout 

By FRED GOODALL been virtually unstoppable in By TIM DAHLBERG If· he is, it's because of a talk "I still think I won that 
Associated Press boosting his average to nearly Assuciated Press from Futch, his 83-year-old fight," Bowe said. ''I wanted to 
23 and Nick Anderson is ofT to trainer, coupled with the shock knock Evander Holyfield out so 
ORLANDO, Fla. the best start of his career at LAS VEGAS of seeing the 45-year-old bad because no one had ever 
The road to the NBA's best just over 20 per game. George Foreman got him Foreman knock Michael done that. If I had just used my 
record in November was any­A major factor, though, has mad and Eddie Futch set him Moorer out to win two-thirds jab, he couldn't touch me. I 
thing but smooth for the been the addition of Grant. who straight. Now, Riddick Bowe of the title. allowed him to get too close to 
Orlando Magic. has brought maturity and lead­says, he's ready to answer crit· 
ership to a team whose biggest Anfernee Hardaway missed stars, O'Neal and Hardaway, 
"The Foreman fight really me." 
ticked me off," Bowe said. ~'It's his weight and his desire . unfortunate Michael Moorer is The 27 -year-old Bowe, 34-1 
lcs who have questioned both 

training camp while negotiat­are just 22 and 23 years old,• "It's just like during the dumber than all outdoors. Why with 29 knockouts, came into 
ing a new contract, Shaquille respectively. 
O'Neal was slowed by a Grant, who helped Chicago toOlympics when they said he's would you stand in front of the Holyfield rematch at 246
• 
jammed big toe, and offseason three NBA titles before signing said. "People think I'm no After watching Foreman beat than he was when he won the
lazy and he's crazy," Bowe George Foreman like that? pounds, i 1 pounds heavier 

acquisitions Horace Grant and with Orlando as an unrestrict­longer hungry. That's not Michael Moorer, I became title. Although both he and 
Brian Shaw both had minor ed free agent, is the team's sec­true." more determined." Futch said the extra weight 
injuries that limited the amount ond-leading rebounder (1 0.1) Futch, who Bowe affection­was simply a result of Bowe 
of practice time they got. and fourth-leading scorer Bowe returns to the ring ately calls "Papa Smurf" had continuing to grow, it seemed 
Throw in the lower back (12.8) -taking a lot of pres­Saturday for only the second 
earlier threatened to leave to take a toll on him during the 

strain that sidelined Dennis sure ofT O'Neal. time since losing his heavy­Bowe's New Orleans training fight. 
Scott for six exhibitions and the "You can't overlook what weight titles to Evander 
camp unless the former cham­"As long as I'm in shape, I 

first 11 games and it's easy to Horace has meant," Hill said. Holyfield when he meets un­pion rededicated himself to his heat all the heavyweights out 
understand why coach Brian "He's led by example, showing beaten former Olympian Larry training efforts. there," Bowe said. ''They can 
Hill had so many questions go­the younger guys what it takes ing into the first month. to be a winning team. There's
Futch said Bowe wasn't fol­only hope I'm fat and come in round bout. lowing a program prescribed out of COI1dition.•• 
Donald in a scheduled 12­

no doubt we wouldn't be where It's somewhat of a cross­by physical therapist Mackey Bowe not only has to beat 
"I won't lie. I was very con­we are without him." roads fight for the former 
Shilstone as closely as he Donald, a 1992 Olympian who 

cerned that this team had not champion, who is trying to should and was not fully com­is 16-0 as a pro, he has to look 
had a chance to come together. The NBA's top scoring team that there was still a lot of (116.8) is 6-0 at home and 2-2shake the complacency that nutted to training. good doing it. 
came with the titles and the "I said, 'If you don't care work we had to do to get ready on the road, including a two­to play," Hill said after point loss to New York on Nov.

about yourself, why should I After planned fights against Wednesday night's 114-107 10. The Magic is eagerly await­
accompanying fat bank 

care about you? I am here for Lennox Lewis and Moorer fell victory over Sacramento im­ing Friday night's rematch. 
account. 
you,"' Futch said. apart because of losses by the gone," said Bowe's manager. 
"The luxury mentality is 
two fighters, Bowe finds him­

proved Orlando's record to 10-"We know if we are going to Rock Newman. "Somewhere The message seems to have self effectively shut out of 
be a real good team this year, he has gotten it back. He has 
2. 
sunk in for Bowe, who many chances against either 

It was the Magic's eighth con­we are going to have to go secutive win, a franchise through New York," Hill said.
thought would hold the heavy­Foreman or WBC champion and this is what he has done." weight titles a long time after Oliver McCalL 
to grab the bull by the horns 

record, and bolstered the "We're playing some very Bowe. who weighed 24 7 
handing Holyfield his frrst loss. Bowe, though, is the No. 1 team's confidence heading into good basketball, but there's Friday night's game against the lots of room for improvement ...

Instead, Bowe defended the contender in the lightly re­to the ring in August against title with two quick knockouts garded W80. and could face
pounds for his aborted return defending Eastern Conference Winning eight in a row is great. champion New York Knicks. but I've been part of a team

over Jesse Ferguson and Herbie Hide for that title in the Shaquille O'Neal is the that's won 14 or 15 straight. I Buster Mathis Jr.. claims to be 
Michael Dokes, then lost them spring. Winning that title could Holyfield in November 1992 to last November in a close 12-give him the leverage I1eeded 
in his best shape since beating 

league's leading scorer at 31.1 want to get the streak up win the titles. round decision. to get the big fights. 
points per game, Hardaway has there," said Grant. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 

Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
LOST: This is ridiculous, but some­Wanted! Individuals and Student EA HOCKEY for IBM We sincerely apologize to whomev­Be sure to wish a happy belated 
how my coat was switched with Organizations to Promote SPRING er may have been offended by our 20th birthday to CAROLYN
NOTICES 

I 
another woman's coat at the Grace BREAK '95. Earn substantial 1994 players with trades, etc... ad requesting dates for our Dec 3 KEIPER!!! formal last semester in April at MONEY & FREE TRIPS. CALL almost brand new, has all books formal. It was neither our intent to If you KANT bring yourself to Union Station. It was a black INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1· and the registralion form. offend nor degrade anyone. Bob F. HUME her a birthday tune, at least 
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS Ashley Scott long dress coat. If you 800-327-6013 Roberts be a PRINCE and tell her happy 
10·6 m-sat pandora's books think you may have the wrong coat. best offer; call Tom at 4·1712 birthday!!! 
i 
NO ave & Howard st 1Q-6 m·sat let me know. Liz x12n WANTED PARTIIME LAB TECH 233-2342 cool stuff cool store WITH CG EXP. SENO RESUME For Sale: WANTED: Hey everyone-TO: Great Dorm Fridge-$55 Boy who wore the blue If you happen to see CAROLYN LOST: Bright blue Gortex jacket BOX 4103 Small Microwave-$45 LL Cool J hat to thebasketball KEIPER at the computer lab today, HITCH THE SKIES WITH with green lining. last seen at SOUTH BEND IN 46634 4X3243 game on Tues. Call 284-4366 wish her a happy belated 20th birth· 
AIRHITCH North Dining Hall. Please call Mike and identify yourself. day!! Carrib/Mex $189 RIT Europe $229, at x2027 with any information. STEREO: am/fm, dual cass. w/ You won't be disappointed. If you KANT bring yourself toFOR RENT 
Coast to Coast $129. Call for FREE Generous reward for its return. remote $100 (neg) Call Steph HUME her a birthday tune, at least program description BOQ-326·2009 x4058 be a PRINCE and tell her happy 
FOUND: Youth NO Ball Cap in Zepfest House '95-96. Free maid $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ birthday!! SOPHOMORE SIBS WEEKEND IS Section 17, Row 51 @football serv., sand V-ball ct.,6·bedrm. HEY CAVANAUGH WOMEN! KEIPER's 20 KEIPER'S 20 APRIL 7,8,&9! If you want to help gameon11/19 273-0482 234-3831 Super Sharp 3 Bdrm. Approx 3/1 0 Take the two funnest, goofiest, KEIPER'S 20 KEIPER'S 20 plan the activities for the weekend mi S. of N.D. @ 1018 N. Eddy. Why yummiest guys to your formal. and get involved call Andrea at LOST: Dinosaur-shaped pewter 2 BLOCKS SOUTH OF CAMPUS! waste rent, build equity. Low $30's. Guaranteed time of your semester, A. Pikai­(x4822) or (1-5117)1 earring in or near DeBartolo on 2BR+ house avail. NOW for spring. Call for showing! 271-8100 or your money back. Call the Early on the Internet, 
Tues. night 11/29. If you find it, $400/mo. 287·9043 Steve Weldy -ERA Brokers Assoc. "Dancing Ankles" at x 1385. On time in print. 
please call linda at 232-2739. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Best wishes for a Happy Birthday! CORRECTION­1way air ticket to Seattle Call Zane -ss Schindler's List showing at NEAR CAMPUS 289-2492
WANTED

7:00 and 10:30 in Cushing HOMES FOR RENT Quality Copies, Quickly!!! 
Auditorium this Fri and Sat 95-96 SCHOOL YR 2way plane ticket certificate 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Wish your friends a nifty holiday NEED HELP: FEMALE N.D. 232 2595 $250/bo call Fang @631-6353 LaFortune Student Center season with an Observer personal. GRADUATE OR LAW STUDENT Phone 631-COPY The final paper of the semester is 
Christmas cash? We buy used Air TO HOUSE SIT WITH 17-YEAR looking for a male/ female room­Dec. 9. and the deadline is 3pm, Jordans 85-91 editions and late OLD FEMALE. APPROX. 6 DAYS mate in Castle Point. $ 280 + utili· Dec B. Good luck on finals!! 70's & early 80's NIKE running PER MONTH BEGINNING MID ties, For Sp/95 272-1663 OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 
... 
shoes, pay up to $200! 1-8D0-873-JANUARY. CALL219·277-5762 at $85.900. First floor location . Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 3538 ext 3 Roommate needed for spring sem. Finished basement with full lavato­1 (800)359·9808 Congratulations cast and crew of Music Lovers; come support the 254·0317 ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on "UNCOMMON WOMEN "UNCOMMON WOMEN new music scene at the LOFT ground level. Lease back to owner AND OTHERS" AND OTHERS" FRIDAY 9:00PM 1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL· through May, 1995. (which, by the way, is tonight and is tonight!!!!!! And also tomorrow LAFORTUNE BALLROOM $1 ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES Call (616) 946-0700. SOPHOMORE MALE SEEKS tomorrow night at 8 in Lab Theater at 8 PM in the lab Theater­272-6306 OFF·CAMPUS HOUSING FOR of Washington. Go see it. Bring Third floor Washington Hall. ATIENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF· SPRING SEMESTER CALL SEAN your friends.) 
PERSONAL

Go see it and be really cool MOTIVATED Students. The Bed 'N Breakfast Registry • 703-931-6864 OR PAGE ME AT 1-Shake and Bake tonight, girls! 
FOREVER !!!!!!!!! ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is Private Homes 800· 706·3255. currently interviewing students for JPW, Graduation Did you hug your gay friend today? JUNIOR SERVICE PROJECT: Summer '95 management posi· 219-291-7153 CHRISTMAS PARTY AT HARRI· 
Be a part of the NCAA Champion lions. Earn money in excess of •A CHRISTMAS CAROL• Notre Dame Communication and SON SCHOOL FOR 21 2ND Fencing Team! One position avail· $10,000. Call now, 1-800-477-1001 WANTED: 5 students for beautifully A Siegfried/Fianner Production Theatre presents: GRADERS ON MONDAY, DEC 5. able for any freshman or sopho­for a campus representative. remodeled home-Huge yard with DEC. 1,2,3 UNCOMMON WOMEN FROM 9AM TO 10 AM. WE'Ll BE more. Rudimentary knowledge of oversized deck, security system, @Washington Hall, 7:30pm AND OTHERS BACK FOR YOUR electricity preferred but not Need an used 35:70 AF lens washer. dryer. 5 blocks from main -tkts on sale LaFortune for $3-by Wendy Wasserstein 10:10 CLASS. PLEASE CALL required. Any interested party Minolta Maxxum preferred circle. Available NOW for 2nd Directed by Kim M. DOMINIC AMOROSA BY SUNDAY please contact Brian @ 234-8027 Callt-8245 semester. 277-0636 Anyone need a ride to Colorado for This Friday and Saturday, IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IN 
Christmas break? x1148, Bob Dec. 2 and 3 at 8:00. HELPING OUT RIDERS NEEDED TO CT. Lab Theatre, Washington Hall 1-5136
ILOST & FOUND I FOR SALE
CALL ERIN AT x5225 SOON! Yeah Lewis 4W (Third Floor) 

-~ -~ -~---­
-. 

Friday, December 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 •I 
~ 

•
• 
•NFL j 
Marino gets last laugh Falcons se~k revenge 
By STEVEN WINE 29th time Marino has rallied fourth in passing and second in Associated Press Miami from behind to win in touchdown passes. 
after early blowout 
the final period. "At times I haven't thrown MIAMI "It's satisfying knowing the ball as well as I'd like to," Dan Marino's limp made the you've come back from an in­he said. "Fourteen intercep­By DENNIS GEORGATOS Mathis, who's second in the Pittsburgh Steelers laugh. jury that takes a lot of work to tions are too many for me. And Associated Press league with a career-high 90 
In an otherwise forgettable come back from," the 33-year­there were a couple of games catches. preseason game last August, old quarterback said, adding where I made some bad deci­SAN FRANCISCO "We were both fighting for Marino was about to play for with a chuckle, ''I'm not feeling sions on a couple of throws that Six weeks ago, the Atlanta possession of a division lead the first time since being side­good, but I'm playing OK.'' I'd like to have back, but noth­Falcons had the same record as and we feel like we had a lined by a ruptured Achilles Marino can smile despite his ing that really hurt us that the San Francisco 49ers and strong team at the time, but we tendon 10 months earlier. sore right leg, because he has bad." saw their first meeting as a found out we had a ways to go. 
"We were laughing when he thrown for 3,391 yards and 25 In the season opener, Marino chance to challenge for But we learned from that went out on the field," Steelers touchdowns. He accepts the answered speculation about his supremacy in the NFC West. game. We've gotten better, quarterback Neil O'Donnell fact that the leg is not as strong health by throwing for 473 and, of course, they've gotten said. as before he was hurt. yards and five touchdowns to The 49ers settled that on Oct. better.'' 
"He seemed to wobble a lot," "It's been the same since beat New England. He threw 16 by blowing out the Falcons said Mike Tomczak, another training camp started," he said. for 431 yards and three scores 42-3, the second in what has As for another sideshow, both Steelers quarterback. "I don't know if it will ever get in a loss at Minnesota. He become a string of seven Rison and Sanders said forget 
Then Marino began throwing. any better, but that's something threw for 359 yards last Sunday straight wins. it. The two, each fined $7,500 His first pass was incomplete, to worry about later on." against the Jets. The latest, a 35-14 victory by the league for fighting, said but his second one was perfect The injury at times has forced "He astounds you. How can a over New Orleans on Monday they have no intention of trad­-a 78-yard touchdown bomb Marino to throw more with his man keep doing that?" Buffalo night, allowed San Francisco ing punches this time. to Mike Williams. upper body, Dolphins quarter­coach Marv Levy said. (10-2) to clinch its 11th division "I won't fight. That's foolish," 
"That made a lot of people back coach Gary Stevens said. Marino this season passed the title in 14 years. Sanders said. stop laughing," Miami tight end "You throw the ball with your 300 milestone in touchdown "That game is dead and Keith Jackson said. "They said, legs. If you use your upper passes and needs 20 more to Atlanta (6-6) has gone 2-4 gone," Rison said. 'Wait a minute. Maybe he is body, you don't have enough break Fran Tarkenton's NFL since getting floored by the Besides, Mathis said, the back.' " zip on it," Stevens said. record of 342. He also should 49ers and former Falcon Deion Falcons can't afford any more 
For Marino, master of the "Sometimes he doesn't get break Tarkenton's record of Sanders, who punctuated his distractions if they're going to fourth-quarter rally, this season the zip on balls. Sometimes he's 47,003 passing yards next sea­Atlanta return by getting in a make a serious run at a post­is the best comeback yet. caught flat-footed. But he's son. fight with Andre Rison and re­season berth over the season's 
While the limp remains, his fine. The guy is throwing the Fourteen months after his turning an interception 93 fmal month. performance has been anything ball good. Sometimes he mis­Achilles tendon ruptured, yards for a score. "This whole team has some­but lame. Thanks in large part fires, like any quarterback." Marino is again marching to­The Falcons revived their thing to prove, that we can play to Marino, Miami is 8-4 and in Miami's injury-hampered of­ward the Hall of Fame. chances for a wild-card berth with a team like the 49ers any first place going into Sunday's fense has been inconsistent this "The guy is unbelievable to by beating Philadelphia 28-21 Sunday," Mathis said. AFC East showdown against season, and Marino's pro­come back from that type of last week, but must play Round Buffalo. duction dipped during a four­injury as quick as he came back 2 against San Francisco on San Francisco, which strug­
Last Sunday at New York, game stretch in October. But he and play the way he's playing," Sunday. gled with a banged-up offensive Marino threw four touchdown declines to blame his ailing leg Jackson said. "He limps out "We got embarrassed the line early in the season, has passes to Mark Ingram in the for any difficulties. And besides, there and he's still rolling out first time. It was 42-3 and who gotten healthy and enters the 
the Dolphins lead the NFL in and trying to make plays. He wants to be embarrassed like rematch with the Falcons on an
second half as the Dolphins beat the Jets 28-24. It was the total yards, while Marino ranks should get a courage award." that?" said Atlanta's Terance ongoing offensive roll. 
Football is~ro
;:::::.~:+>:"-.:·'·"". 

and all your S 
(!)g What does one do at N.D. on a typical Saturday after football season is over? /]13 How about a0@ ~[h[)Q~ill(D with IJ[la[]) ~a [9[], the group dedicated to finding the fun, non-alcoholic solution for the post-football season boredom (All 
freshmen will learn about this soon!) 

DETAILS: Meet at the JACC hockey rink at 10 PM on Saturday, December 3 for skating and refreshments. 
Cost: $1.00 if you ha"e your own ice skates $2.00 if you need to rent skates 

As always, reduced rates for Flip Side members. 
Call Mary (4-4904) or John (4-1410) for more details. 
See you at the JACCI 

----~-------­

------~---------~ ------­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 2, 1994 
•NFL 
Browns, Giants a new match-up 
By CHUCK MEL YIN Associared Press 
CLEVElAND 

The way Carl Banks sees it, nostalgia doesn't apply. The New York Giants team that will visit Cleveland Stadium on Sunday bears little resem­blance to the group he helped make famous in the 1980s. 
"That's free agency nowa­days," said Banks, who won two Super Bowl rings with the Giants before moving to Washington in 1993 and to the Browns this season. 
The old coach, Bill Parcells, is in New England. The quarter­back, Phil Simms, is a broad­caster, as is the defensive leader, Lawrence Taylor. 
But Banks and Pepper Johnson, who along with Taylor helped give the Giants one of the most intimidating sets of linebackers in NFL his­tory, are together again as starters for the Browns. 
And both are playing as well as ever. With Johnson anchor­ing the middle flanked by Banks and Frank Starns, Cleveland has given up far fewer points (148) than any other NFL team. Pittsburgh's defense ranks next in points al­lowed with 172, followed by Dallas with 179. 
Johnson leads the Browns with 157 total tackles. Banks is fourth on the team with 76. 
"I think their quickness and speed on defense is very similar to Dallas," Giants coach Dan Reeves said. "They're very bal­anced offensively, and they're well-coached. I think as far as offense, defense and special teams, this is as close a team as we've seen to Dallas." 
Heeves, named coach of the Giants in January 1993, let Banks leave as a free agent Jess than six months later. The out­spoken Johnson, who Jed the team in tackles in 1992. left for the Browns. late that preseason at least partly because he and Reeves couldn't agree on how he should be used. 
When the Great 
American Dream 

isn't great enough 
Have you con-.idered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the 
Univer-.ity of Notre Dame for colleoe !.'.raduate-. 
. ~ ~ 
lntere-.ted in exploring the pos-.ihility of a lifetime of -.ervice as a lloly Crm-. prie-.t or hrother. Scholar"hi p as-.i."tance is avai Iahie. 
Call or write fur information: Fr. John Conley. C.S.C. Fr. Patri~.:k Hannon. C.S.C'. Congregation of lloly Cross Hox 541. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 !219) 631-63X5 
Reeves said he never doubted Johnson could still be an excel­lent player. 
"It wasn't an easy decision, because he had been a leader here and had been one of the great players during the years they had won their Super Bowls," Reeves said. "We just felt we had some linebackers who were playing a little better and could make us better in the future. 
"I didn't think his attitude was the best thing. He had a great deal of influence on ev­erybody. Sometimes that can be good. Sometimes that can be bad." 
Banks, however, said Sunday's game won't likely deteriorate into a grudge match, nor will it be awash in sentiment for him and Johnson. The Browns (9-3) have far too much at stake; with the right combination of help from other teams Sunday, they could clinch their first playoff berth since 1989. 
"The only special meaning that this game has to me is that it's one that we want to win," Banks said. "I can't get senti­mental now. I have to play against these guys, and we have a great deal of respect for their talent. There's nothing reflective about playing against the Giants right now, except that they're an opponent, and a very worthy opponent." 
Banks was hesitant to com­pare the current Cleveland de­fense to the New York units he was part of. 
"I think this team is very tal­ented, and in some ways more talented than some of the ones I've been on," he said. "But until you win championships, it's a little bit unfair to even try to draw comparisons. 
"That defense was a different time and a different place. This group of guys has worked very hard to establish their own identities. It's not my place to say this is just like the one I was on. I'm new here." 

'Rebuilding' Rams face Saints 
By KEN PETERS Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. The similarities are painfully obvious. 
The New Orleans Saints and Los Angeles Rams are both "rebuilding," a euphemism for losing. They both have 4-8 records and rank in the lower echelons of the NFL in most statistical categories. 
The Saints have lost two in a row, three of their last four. The Rams have lost three straight, four of their last five. 
New Orleans coach Jim Mora still prefers to look at the glass as being half full, not half empty, for both teams as they head into Sunday's game at Anaheim Stadium. 
"The Rams as a team hit a low spell a couple of years ago, John's (Robinson's) last couple of years, they plummeted. Chuck (Knox) has gotten them better," Mora said. "He's made a lot of changes and they're a much better team. 
"Our plummet has been more recent. We're on the way back to being a good team. Both teams are in that category. Both of us could be better than 4-8. I look at them and don't see a whole lot of difference be­tween them and many teams with better records." 
Said Knox: "They've been in a lot of football games, just like we have. They're trying to build, just like we are, and we have the same record. They played the 49ers last week (a 35-14 loss by the Saints) and we had the 49ers two weeks ago (a 31-27 loss by the Rams). 
H 
H> 
0 
rl 





the 

Contact y~ur dorm's Community ~ Serutce Commissioner ~~ to make donations ~ 
1111 ao9 
The Saints are a good football team with some excellent tal­ent." 
Among the bright spots for New Orleans is Jim Everett, the quarterback who will return to Anaheim Stadium for the first time since the Rams let him go following last season. Everett has thrown for 2,916 yards and 16 touchdowns, with 14 inter­ceptions and a passing rating of 82.7. 
By contrast, the Rams' Chris Miller. signed as a free agent during the offseason, has a 66.9 rating, with 12 TO throws and 13 interceptions and has missed part of the season be­cause of injuries. 
"I think Everett had done a fine job," Knox said. "He has a similar quarterback rating to what he had here in '92, when 
Not a Franchise' 
A Family Owned Business 

257-1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery 
Call 272-2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 
1)LE 

DfCfMBfR 
4 
Prayer Seruice at the Grotto at 6 pm Followed by a procession around South Quad and finishing at the Rock 
with the Glee Club C~ndles _on the quadE Will be lit until 8 pm 
~II ~roceeds go to Ho~e Rescue Mission 
he played quite well for us." 
The contest will be a rematch of the "many happy returns" game the Saints won 37-34 on Oct. 23 in New Orleans. During that wild afternoon, there were four returns of more than 90 yards for touchdowns. 
The Saints' Tyrone Hughes returned kickoffs 92 and 98 yards; the Rams' Robert Bailey had an NFL-record 103-yard punt return on a strange play when he picked up the ball and took off after most players on both teams thought the play was dead in the end zone; and Los Angeles' Toby Wright re­turned a fumble 98 yards for a score. 
Knox and his staff obviously have been considering ways to make sure Hughes doesn't get loose again. 
Main & jefferson 
Hours 
Mon-Sat 11:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m.
Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 

Friday, December 2, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
him," junior guard Kurowski One might wonder what She was voted Midwestern said. "It's just that sometimes attracted such a talented, Collegiate Conference Coach of
Irish Brown 
we stood around in awe of him knowledgeable, and experi­the Year for the fourth consec­
continued from page 24 and expected him to carry the continued from page 24 enced player and coach to utive year. Brown has led her Notre Dame, which previous to team to the NCAA tournament
whole load. Now we have any After the Olympics, Brown Brown had been a mediocre the last three years. She wasgoals. Otherwise, they couldn't number of players who can 

returned to Arizona State and team in a mediocre conference. also named Mideast Regionhave survived the last two woe­have a big game on any given completed her degree in physi­"Notre Dame has such a Coach' of the Year in both 1992 ful winters. Whether or not this night." 
cal education. She feels that great academic reputation and and '93. 
one will be any better depends Stifled snickers surrounded both her experience as a player athletic tradition," said Brown. Despite all the recognition of in large part on games like Kurowski in the preseason and in education has played a "I really felt like I could build a Coach Brown's accomplish­
Saturday's. when he suggested that Notre big factor in her ability and program." ments and the impact she has Notre Dame has already Dame had the talent to be "a effectiveness as a coach. In four seasons as head had on the Irish program, she proven that it can beat the es­top 25 or 30 team." But with "Having been a player helps coach at Notre Dame, Brown remains focussed on her goals tablished elite, just as it did last one big win under their belts with my credibility," said has compiled a 115-29 record as a team and her improve­year with wins over Missouri and a stretch of winnable Brown. "I've been in the ath­which makes her the win­ment as a coach. and UCLA. Now it needs to beat games ahead, the Irish look lete's shoes, and it helps my ningest coach in Irish volleyball "Coaching is a constant the basement, a problem area like they might prove Kurowski team to know that." history. She earned her hun­learning process," said Brown. "My degree in education also dredth win with the Irish this "If you ever think you know
in the past. to be a prophet. 
helps a lot with my ability to season with a victory over everything there is to know,But a better chemistry seems That is, if they can let go of coach." No.15 Texas on October 14th. you're going to fail."
to be developing on this team the glory of the Indiana victory than existed on recent squads and forge forward, the lack of Brown. "We are looking to undefeated with a 15-0 recordthat relied too heavily on Monty which has stalled Irish sucess neutralize the middle." at home this season, the first
NCAA

Williams. in recent years. 
time in the 15 years of IrishBalance has been the biggest "Our guys are not satisfied," 
continued from page 24 The Irish have had extra time volleyball that this has oc­boost for the Irish this season. MacLeod said. "As a team to prepare for the match, with curred.
Three players average in dou­we're making progress and In the match against the the bye, and are ready to go at Although both Christy Petersble-figures, led by freshman we'll get better as the season 
Hawkeyes, middle hitters the Panthers. and Kristina Ervin are recover­forward Pat Garrity who has goes on because they've been Melanie Gustason, a six~foot "We had a really good prac­ing from injuries, the Irish willtossed in 16 points per game. working so hard in practice. 
sophomore, and Jennie tice today," said Brown of prac~ still look to the likes of senior "(Williams) was an outstand­It's great to see the guys work Driscoll, a 5-11 sophomore, tice on Thursday. "It was very co-captain Nicole Coates anding college player and I would so hard and be able to see the combined for 36 of the teams competitive, and the team is freshman Angie Harris to never take anything away from results of it." 
70 kills. As a team, Pitt starting to feel the emotion of maintain the powerful outside blocked 15 of Iowa's attempts. the tournament." attack that the team is so fa­"Pitt's strength is their mid­The Irish are looking to im­mous for. Jtmior setter dle hitting and blocking," said prove their 24-game home win­Shannon Tuttl~'s consistency
I Recycle The Observer I 
Irish head coach Debbie ning streak. The team was and leadership will also play a big role in the success of the Irish on Sunday, as it has all season. 

Coach Brown expects the match to be a competive and intense match, as any match at this level of tournament play would be. 
"It will be a fiery, emotional match," said Brown. "Once you get into the NCAA tourna­ment, much of the play is on straight adrenaline." 
The ickory 
Uillaee Love Affair 
Look At What 
$295 
Can Get You: 
• 
AGreat One-Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(Efficiencies from $280, Two Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Sparkling Pwl and Sundeck 

• 
Beautiful Clubhouse 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Laundry Facilities


No kidding. More and more students program and beyond. It shows you 
• Cable TV Available
are telling us how much they enjoy math how to use Mathematica to solve equa­
Mathilfiitica~ 
·· Close to Great Shopping
after they start using Mathenwtica. tions, make spectacular 2D and 3D
The Essential Tool for Math and Science Learning 
• Air Conditioning
Whether you're in engineering, plots and graphs, and write reports 
• 24-hour Emergency MC'intenance 
computer science, physics, economics, or any Students use Mathematica to ,oAV s~ that will impress even your other technical major, you know how critical understand topics better and fin-~o':.,~e4 1 ... Dfl"e..;,..~(.\, toughest professors. your knowledge of math is to your future. ish homework faster. Mathenwt-·J!~"\' Students everywhere 
212-1880 

······--·-·-....-............. Now students around ica speeds you through tedious g\'iP \. approach math with a 
-[!!," ,. ~ ~-.1¥.--~-~ 
•Nl..nerioel Comput..lon the world are discov­calculations, and is a great tool whole new attitude when for making sure your answers they use Mathenwtica. So are accurate. It's ideal ~f(i'~U treat yourself to this Holi­for any course where lJ'\.l~ day Special and ring in the the assignments involve new xear with Mathematica algebra, calculus, linear algebra, on your desktop. differential equations, statistics ... and the 
For more information or to order from home, call
list goes on. Mathematica isn't just fast-it's easy. 1-800-441-MATH (6284) You'll start getting answers the moment you 

Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be.
type your first equation on the screen. And 
Wolfram Research 
Mathenwtica: The Student Book is included to 
WoHram Research. Inc. help you quickly through the basics of the +1-217-398-0700; fax: +1-217-398-0747; email: info@wri.com 
+llCKORij 
DlLLAC3EfA
Mathematica for Students is available to all currently enrolled full-time students. Student identification required. Mathematica_for Studentsis afull-function version of Mathematica and is available on Macintosh and 
Microsoft Windows systems. Numeric coprocessor suppon not included. MathUnk• support not included on the Wrndows versron. Academrc drscounts are avarlable for professronal versrons of Mathemaflca on all personal computers. workstations. and supercomputers. Lab and site programs are also available. 
C1994Wolllllllflesl:adl.lnt Matoomiilocaan:lMatttdan!regtSteredtraclemiWtsoiWollramResearth.ln: .o\.fm1enaf~c:atsnotassa:WiedwnhMa!hematcaPolqllesmrth.ln: orMalhT«:tt,lnt AIIO!herlftiiL.afliJlleSIT8lloiBlarelliiBPaR:sollheupruclocer5 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 &Sun. 12-4 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 2, 1994 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
Great Eight answers, raises questions 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 

The jokes started in the days leading up to the inaugural Great Eight. 
"Hey, did you hear they re­named the Great Eight? Now it's the Fab Five and three oth­ers." 
The flaw in the concept of an event like the Great Eight is that most college basketball teams change a lot from one year to the next, especially in the age of two-year careers for star players. 
This year's field was a perfect example as the teams all ar­rived at the Palace with ques­tions. Some were answered positively, some in a way no coach wants to hear. All in all, the Great Eight was pretty good. 
The two doubleheaders got off to a rough start Tuesday night when No. 8 Florida destroyed Boston College 91­
65. Then came No. 16 Connecticut's 90-86 victory over No. 6 Duke in what was a very good early season game. The second night started with Missouri hanging on for a 69­66 win over Purdue and ended with No. 9 Arizona's 78-57 demolition of No. 17 Michigan. 
There will be a Great Eight for at least the next two years and the fun thing about it is no one knows who's going to be in them. The field will be set, ex­cept for a defection or two, on the weekend before the Final Four is played. 
The only team not to play in the first edition that should have was Arkansas. The de­fending champions already had two neutral-site games on their schedule and it's tough to pass up home games when it means 20,000-plus in Bud Walton Arena. 
North Carolina was extended the first offer as a replacement but declined citing schedule conflicts. Connecticut was next up and jumped at the chance. 
According to a number of school officials, each school re­ceived over $100,000 for participating, a pretty nice pay­ofT for a one-game trip. 
So there will be another good collection of name programs next year, but we'll have to see how many questions this year's regional finalists will come up with by that time. Instead let's take a look at the answers or further questions each of this year's field came up with: Arizona 
The Wildcats showed there will be plenty of offense without Khalid Reeves. Damon Stoudamire had five 3-pointers, seven assists and plenty of time in the open court. Reggie Geary backed coach Lute Olson's claim he is the best defender in the country by stifling Jimmy King in a 2-for-12 night. 
Boston College 
The Eagles had to play the day they learned freshman guard Chris Herren would miss the season because of wrist surgery. The team played down and coach Jim O'Brien has to work on keeping heads up to avoid a disastrous season. 
Connecticut 
Ray Allen lived up to the billing as the sixth man who would burst to stardom as a starter. Kevin Ollie looked very solid at the point and the Huskies played the trapping de­fense just the way coach Jim Calhoun likes it. 
Duke 
Cherokee Parks played well and laid claim to the season's most controversial technical foul so far. 
If you see sports 
happening, call The 
Observer 631-4543 

Coach Mike Krzyzewski had to be happy with the play of freshmen Steve Wojciechowski, Trajan Langdon and Ricky Price. It should be fun to watch that perimeter trio improve throughout the season. 
Florida 

Coach Lon Kruger is replac­ing Craig Brown by committee and it seems to be making the Gators stronger at a few posi­tions. Andrew DeClerq is work­ing his way up the list of the best big men in the country. Dametri Hill has lost some weight but kept the smile. 
Michigan 

The crowd really gave it to the Wolverines for their woeful second-half performance. 
Jimmy King and Ray Jackson were a combined 6-for-27 from the field and none of the fresh­men even came close to picking up the slack. Coach Steve Fisher knows it's going to take time to find consistency. 
Missouri 
The Tigers looked very good until the final minutes against Purdue, but by then the back­court of Paul O'Liney and Jason Sutherland had taken over and that pleased coach Norm Stewart. Sammie and Simeon Haley are more than a curiosity as twin 7 -footers. They are also pretty good basketball players with quite a bit enthusiasm. 
Purdue 
Junior college transfer Roy Hairston was the only offensive positive for the Boilermakers. After the game he and coach Gene Keady had to deflect talk of his filling Glenn Robinson's scoring shoes. Cuonzo Martin and Matt Waddell aren't near 100 percent after knee surg­eries and they'll have to play their way into shape. 

$$$$$$$ MAKE MoNEY $$$$$$$ 
CHRISTMAS & SUMMER VACATIONS 
BE YouR OwN Boss 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, PLEASE CALL: KI RA 284-4308 DEANNA 284-5166 
.;;.· '; ': '. o' 
A Survivor Celebrates 
Ufe. 
'Kedemshares 
the exlraordi­
narybuestroy 
ofsurvivaland 
courage,ex­
ploringthereal 
lifedrama and 
honurthatin­
spiredthe 

Jordan skips appearance 

By MARlA DIAL Associated Press 
CHANDLER. Ariz. 

The sign posted outside the stadium read: "Michael Jordan will not appear today." 
Some glanced at their tickets, shrugged and continued into Compadre Stadium. Others paused to debate whether watching the Scottsdale Scorpions of the Arizona Fall League without Jordan was worth the trip. Many simply walked away Thursday, know­ing their chance to see the su­perstar would not come again. 
Jordan already was heading to Chicago for a prior engage­ment. He left the Phoenix area a day before the Scorpions met the Chandler Diamondbacks in their regular-season finale, causing a noticeable drop in at­tendance. 
RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen your underatandlng of youraelf, your valuea, your relationship with Chrlat. your experience of Christian community and aervlce. 
FEBRUARY 3-5, 1995 
December 5 -9 
December 9-4:00 p.m. 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
$25.00 


Friday, December 2, 1994 page 19The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
By the numbers, it's Florida in SEC 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA 

No matter how you crunch the numbers, they seem to add up to a Florida victory in the Southeastern Conference cham­pionship game Saturday. 
No team in the league can come close to the Gators' explo­sive "Fun 'n Gun" offense, which is averaging 45 points a game. Danny Wuerffel is the SEC's highest-rated quarter­back, just ahead of the man he beat out for the starting job in midseason, Terry Dean. 
Florida's defense is hardly a wimpy unit, either, surrender­ing less than 17 points a game. The Gators are nearly impos­sible to run against, allowing only 2.7 yards per carry. 
But a couple of numbers favor Alabama -11 and 0. That's the Crimson Tide's record, a testament to looking beyond the cold, hard statistics when measuring the worth of a team. 
~aa.--.~~~'~'SWElli·m~mG& 
SENSUOUS. 
ADELICIOUS ROMANTIC FLAVOR... l·e!lrumced with adash of magic realism." 
-&,-1m Hclitl.TilE NliW roi\K TIMES 
4'THE TAVIANIS ARE IN 
TOP FORM."' 
-V'ntlll Callbv, '!'HE SEW \'01'.'. 11.\IE~ 
"LOVELY! 
1HE BR01HERS MOST EN10YABLE 
WORK IN ADECADE. Harks l-ack to the ~ory days of 'NIGHT OF TIIE SHOOn'\G STARS'." 

ft!G·llJo. _ _ 
~~ ~"~ Afilm hv Paolo and Vittorio Taviani ;...tRI...::;;~.·:~:~ 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE Friday & Saturday 7:30 and 9:45 pm 
TR.ADE 

University Park Mall (219) 273-5264 or 273-5265 

Students!!! Come in and get your 10% Student Discount Card, good for 10% off your purchases at TRADE SECRET!• 
Bring in this ad and receive an additional 10% off your favorite Shampoo or Conditioner!** 
•Excludes NelOCUS Products, Eledrical Appliances and 32oz. Sizes. tt[xdudes NelOCUS Products and 32 oz. Sizes. 
Expires 12/16/94 
"We know what we have to do to win," offensive lineman Kareem McNeal said. "If we have to come from behind to win, that's what we do. That's what we have done a lot this year." 
Saturday, third-ranked Al­abama meets No. 6 Florida (9­1-1) for the third year in a row in the league championship game (3:30 p.m. EST, ABC), the only one of its kind in major­college football though others are on the horizon with confer­ence realignment. 
For the first time, the cham­pionship will be played in At­lanta's Georgia Dome after two years at Legion Field in Birm­ingham. The teams split those two games, Alabama winning 28-21 in 1992 on the way to a national championship, Florida rallying to post a 28-13 decision last year. 
Gator coach Steve Spurrier is happy about the change of venue, feeling Atlanta is a fair­er S!te than Birmingham, where the Tide plays three home games a year and had a big crowd advantage in the first two championship games. 
"I think it was a very smart move by the commissioner to put it at a neutral site," he said. "Also, it puts the game in a domed stadium. It seems like the weather was not the best those other two years in J3irm­ingham. We're guaranteed ex­cellent weather Saturday." 
So there's a couple of more factors in Florida's favor: no home-field advantage for Al­abama and perfect conditions for the Gators to throw the ball up and down the field. Maybe that's why they are considered a touchdown favorite despite Alabama having the better record and higher ranking. 
Alabama doesn't mind the role of underdog. 
"Not at all," defensive line­man Shannon Brown said. "Nobody expects us to do any­thing. Nobody expects us to reach the top of the ladder." 

Cooper agrees to renew contract 
Associated Press Sources the station did not identify said the agreement COLUMBUS, Ohio was reached between Cooper 
Ohio State coach John Cooper and athletics director Andy on Thursday agreed to a tenta-· Geiger Thursday afternoon. tive five-year contract exten­sion, Columbus radio station However, any contract exten­WfVN reported. sion must be approved by the 
To the 
o~i9iV\al J~ish lep~echauV\ 
+-lapp}:' Bil"fhday 
Love1 
Mom & Dad 
SECR.ET 

Alabama climbed slowly in the rankings -with good rea­son. The Tide's 10 victories over Division 1-A opponents have been by a total of 80 points, and half of those have been decided by seven points or less. 
But those tight margins have instilled a confidence, a stead­fast will that may be difficult for Florida to match, especially after the Gators squandered a 28-point lead in the fourth quarter against Florida State and wound up tied 31-31 last week. 
That devastating finish left Spurrier's team in a state of turmoil. Defenders Ellis John­son and Larry Kennedy com­plained to the reporters that no adjustments were made to stop the Seminoles' fourth-quarter onslaught. And the Gators, whose nine victories have been by an average of 35 points, still haven't forgotten their only other close game, a 36-33 loss to Auburn, which pulled off a stunning upset at Florida Field on a last-minute touchdown pass. 
That game knocked Florida out of the No. 1 ranking, and tht:l tie to Florida State ended any hope of a national title. 
"To have a big, big year, you've got to win the close ones," Spurrier said. "We've not had it in a couple of games this year. We're a couple of fourth-and-10 plays away from maybe having 11 wins." 
Alabama has those 11 wins, putting the Tide in position for its second national title in three years. First, they must beat Florida to earn a spot in the Sugar Bowl (the SEC runner-up goes to the Citrus). then knock off seventh-ranked FSU in New Orleans. 
Accomplish that, and Al­abama would have a strong ar­gument for No. i, no matter what top-ranked Nebraska and No. 2 Penn State do in their bowl games. 
university's board of trustees and president Gordon Gee. 
Gee had said he would meet with Geiger Thursday night. The trustees monthly meeting was scheduled for Friday. 
Cooper could not be reached for comment Thursday evening. Geiger did not return a telephone message seeking comment. 
Sports information director Steve Snapp declined to com­ment about WTVN's report. 
Cooper has said he wants the issue of his contract to be de­cided this week. Cooper and Ohio State have been negotiat­ing an extension on the con­tract, which expires at the end of 1995. A five-year extension would keep Cooper under con­tract through 2000. 
"In my opinion, something needs to happen by this week­end. We have recruits coming in here this weekend and those guys are going to want to know what's going on," Cooper said. 
But he has interviewed for the vacancy at Louisiana State. LSU fired Curley Hallman after a 4-7 season that lowered his four-year record to 16-28. 

lt•s Hip To Trip. 


London $438*. Paris $518* Tel Aviv $770* Mexico City $198* Tokyo $845* Bangkok $935* 
f!~·~'%'f~=~~~J.?ir;
c:henge. Call for othcr""'rid'Mdc deSIInotlons. 
Couna1 Travel 
1153 H. Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 

312•951•0585 
Call for a FREE . Studen~ Travels magazine!' 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 2, 1994 

Sanders learns price of fame Bills, history to 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. 

l 
Barry Sanders never wanted to be famous. Fame just showed up after Sanders be­
came the best running back
• anybody had ever seen. t Sanders doesn't mind it. What he minds is the extra
t baggage that seems to come with fame. Thaf can be a much
l• 
bigger burden than a hulking NFL lineman. 
"I think you just learn to deal with it. You learn to adjust," Sanders said during a break in practice. "It's just another phase in my life. I won't always be famous. It's part of my envi­ronment right now." 
Sanders will be the subject of much attention Sunday when the Detroit Lions (6-6) play host to the Green Bay Packers (6-6) in an NFC rematch in which both teams are lighting to stay alive for a wild-card playoff berth. 
The Packers held him to just 4 7 yards on Nov. 6 in Milwaukee and Green Bay won 38-30. The Packers hope that by putting the clamps on Sanders again, they can keep their own playoff hopes alive. 
"The crucial thing for us is to key on Barry," Packers defen­sive end Reggie White said. "What he does is unbeliev­able." 
Adulation like that, Sanders can handle. In fact, with 1,406 rushing yards already on the 1994 books, he deserves that kind of respect from his peers. 
It is adulation of another sort, a sick sort. that can make Sanders uneasy. 
"After a while, everything just seems to pull on you," Sanders said. 
The price of his fame in­cludes: -Constant requests for in­terviews and autographs. -Finding notes and letters placed in his mail box at home. -Strangers knocking on his door at all hours. "It doesn't matter if you're trying to take a nap. Sometimes 
you feel violated," Sanders said. "You wonder whether you're being respected." 
Sanders is one of the NFL's good guys. He doesn't show­boat, on the field or off. He is soft-spoken and easygoing. He also is a rather private person, but that has nothing to do with how he feels about the burden of his fame. 
In most cases, people just ex­hibit bad manners. 
"You have to learn to cope with it," Sanders said. "That's hard sometimes·, especially out in public." 
There are other forces at play, too. They have more to do with football than fame. Yet they are all tied together. 
Sanders has been a star in the NFL since the Lions made him their No. 1 draft pick in 1989. Since then, he has rushee for 8,195 yards, an average of 4.8 per carry. And he has helped Detroit win the NFC Central two of the last three seasons. 

Steelers a team that 'believes' 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

The Super Bowl isn't far from the Pittsburgh Steelers' hearts as they return home. 
The AFC Central co-leaders passed around black-and-gold T-shirts a few days ago with the date of the championship game on the front and "We Believe" on the back. 
Sure, they still rely entirely too much on their champi­onship-caliber defense to be 
them on pace for their show-

challenge Dolphins 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 

MIAMI 
In the past, when faced with a chance to bury the Buffalo Bills, the Miami Dolphins have blown it. 
The AFC East rivalry resumes Sunday night with Miami holding a two-game lead in the standings. A victory by the Dolphins (8-4) could help them clinch a playoff berth, while pushing the Bills (6-6) to the brink of elimination. 
"If we can win this game," Miami linebacker Bryan Cox said, "we'll put ourselves in perfect position to pretty much put a Rest In Peace sign on their grave for this season." 
But the Dolphins usually bring out the best in the Bills, who are 14-3 against Miami since 1987. The Bills have won the past four AFC titles in part because they have dominated the Dolphins, particularly in pivotal games. 
Last year, Miami had the NFL's best record at 9-2 before losing its final five games, in­cluding a 4 7-34 defeat against Buffalo. The Dolphins missed the playoffs and the Bills went to the Super Bowl. 
In 1992, the Dolphins won the AFC East and the home­field advantage for the playoffs. But Buffalo advanced to the conference championship game as a wild-card team and then won at Miami, 29-10. 
In 1990, with the division title at stake in December, the Bills beat Miami 24-14. Three weeks later in the playoffs, on a snowy field at Buffalo, the Dolphins lost again, 44-34. 
And in October. when the Dolphins were 4-1 and gaining momentum, they lost at Buffalo, 21-11. 
"Whenever people have counted the Bills out, they al­ways have found a way to get back in it," Cox said. "This is a time where people have count­ed them out. so they're a dan­gerous team at this time." 
But rarely has the Bills' situation looked so dire. It's been seven years since they were .500 this late in the year; it's been five years since they lost six games in the regular season. 
Seven losses could keep Buffalo out of the playoffs. 
"We've got to win and keep winning," coach Marv Levy said. "I don't know if a loss would put us totally out of it, but we're thinldng of it in those terms." 
Still, Levy declines to concede that the Bills' four-year reign as the AFC's dominant team is over. 
"That's like saying at the end of the third quarter that the game is over," Levy said. "I think it's premature to make that type of speculation. We're still very much immersed in the light." 
The past four years, the Bills are 12-6 in December. They finish the season by facing Minnesota and New England at home, then traveling to Indianapolis. 
considered a Super Bowl fa­vorite. And they still have a de­cisive game left against co­leader Cleveland in two weeks. 
But the Steelers (9-3) have made believers out of a lot of people, including themselves, by winning their last four games. Another victory Sunday over the Cincinnati Bengals would make it their longest winning streak since 1983. 
A win also would give them a better conference record than Cleveland and at least keep down Dec. 18 in Pittsburgh. 
"I truly think, and I think we believe this as a team: No mat­ter who Cleveland is playing week-in and week-out, we're always in the driver's seat," cornerback Rod Woodson said. 
"If we go out there and play the way we're capable of play­ing, it's going to come down to us playing Cleveland in several weeks. We understand that. I think Cleveland understands that." 


Delivery Hours ($8 minimum order) 4:30-12:00 a.m. Finals Week: 4:30-1 :00 a.m. 
7 Days a Week! 

L 0 Welcome C>arah (our new desi8ner!) $5.00 off full service wilh C>arah :::; Must p!'e<llenl coupon expires 3-1-950(; ~~ V full &rvice ~alon 1357 N. Ironwood Hair • ~kin • Nails (Cornerof4-Edison tl5 1ronwood) ~~~· 2 <1f 1'\jU lOA ""'f. ANil I'I.ANT E."!''!NI :t.•36767tWrC.. 0 sa."' c.. 0 c..-c-lro  


Daily Delivery to Notre Dame 
and South Bend Don't forget to pick up flowers for this weekend's aance! 1404 N Ironwood Dr South Bend, IN 46635 
• 
(219) 288-3995 M,f 7:30,7 
....... ® Sat 8,6 
Edison 
Sun 10,5 
11 All Major Credit \ards Accepted" 
CHARGE BY PHONE 
~-ffli-­

Z11-Q125 I 
Off I 
·':.=:::~~:." •. 
0..,.,.,,.,,..,. 
I 

Friday, December 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 

Eagles need more than win over Cowboys 
By JOHN F. BONFATTI 
Associated Press 
PHII..ADELPHIA 

A victory against the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday would do wonders for the Philadelphia Eagles, reeling from three straight losses. Still, the Eagles wonder if it would be enough to turn them around. 
"Realistically, we still have a lot of work cut out for us, even with a win," Eagles defensive end William Fuller said. 
Dallas (10-2) can clinch its third straight NFC East title by beating the Eagles (7-5). The Cowboys will be starting their third quarterback in as many weeks, but that's a trifle com­pared to the concerns the Eagles take into the game. 
Coach Rich Kotite, whose .596 winning percentage (37­
25) is the best in franchise his­tory, is on the hot seat after his team lost -and looked bad doing so -to Cleveland, Arizona and Atlanta the past three weeks. 
Three straight unsightly loss­es are bad enough, but they came right after Kotite, em­boldened by a 7-2 start, at­tempted to pressure new owner Jeffrey Lurie into addressing the coach's future with the team. 
When he bought the team for $185 million in March, Lurie inherited front office and coaching staffs hired mainly by former owner Norman Braman. At the time, Lurie said he planned no major changes, but would spend the 1994 season evaluating who would stay and who would go. 
After beating the Cardinals and Buddy Ryan, the man he replaced as Eagles coach, on Nov. 6, Kotite said maybe it was time for him to start doing some evaluating of his own. 
The clash between Lurie, a former Hollywood movie pro­ducer who wants to be a hands­

• INTERNSHIPS • 
Attention all sophomores and juniors, of traditionally underrepresented groups*, interested in pursuing a career in the following: 
• 
Investment Banking 

• 
Asset Management 

• 
Commercial Banking 

• 
Consulting 



All majors are invited to attend an informational session on fabulous internship opportunities in the above financial sectors ! ! ! 
December 2, 1994 122 Hayes-Dealy 
5:00PM 
Speakers: Zulma Herrera (SEQ) Julio Casillas (INROADS) Martin Vela (INROADS) 
Sponsored by the Office ofMinority Affairs 

• ~Afro.Armi:arn,N<tiveAimi:arn,~Ink'mali:JialS~tt 
Ifindoubt-aumd!!!!! .
.­




on owner, and Kotite, a blue­collar guy who would prefer to make the football decisions himself, seemed inevitable. They have agreed not to talk about Kotite's status until after the season, but the consensus in Philadelphia is that, barring a trip to the Super Bowl, Kotite won't be back next year. 
There likely will be no Super Bowl trip unless the Eagles show they can beat the Cowboys, who have won the last five meetings. What makes them think they can beat Dallas when they couldn't handle an average Atlanta team last week? 
"I think now we realize we can be out of the valley," Randall Cunningham answered. "We bottomed out last week. I don't think you can go much lower than we've gone offen­sively." 
The NFL's top-rated offense only a month ago, the Eagles have managed only 23 minutes of possession in each of their last two games. In the past four weeks, they have scored four touchdowns and three field goals. Cunningham's quarter­back rating has plummeted to 1Oth in the NFC, 19th in the league. 

They will go against a Cowboys defense ranked atop the NFL. In addition to stopping opponent's offenses, the Dallas defense sets up its own offense: The Cowboys have forced 25 turnovers in their last nine games. 
"It's like playing robots. They play their coverages very well," Eagles running back James Joseph said. "Defensively, they have the total package -and you know what the offense is like." 
The offense probably will be without Troy Aikman (sprained left knee), but with third-string quarterback Jason Garrett last week the Cowboys still scored 42 points. 
"That's a tribute to the talent we have here and the support-
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
• 
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 1WO BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE 

• 
WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT • 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 232-8256 

ape 
VERUCA 
T .AJAERI~ 
THIGHS 



ing cast," coach Barry Switzer said. "Dallas is a talented team when we're healthy." 
Garrett returns to the bench this week in favor of Rodney Peete, the former Detroit Lion who has played sparingly in four games as Aikman's back­up. 
Peete has a sprained right thumb, but said he'd be ready. 
"Throughout the season, I really haven't had a whole lot of practice time," he said. "Seeing that we have a full week this week, it will be good for me to get some practice time going into the game." 
The Eagles are playing poorly and realize they can't afford many more losses and hope to make the playoffs. Switzer said that worries him. 
"They are desperate," he said. "They've still got a chance, but they've got to make it happen. They're dangerous. That's brought to our atten­tion." 
Patriots, Jets have even battle 
By HOWARD ULMAN Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 

It's a game the Jets simply have to win. Or do they? The Patriots are in the same predicament with the same 6-6 record. Shouldn't they have to win, too? 
The crowded pack of con­tenders has made the AFC playoff picture so puzzling even New York coach Pete Carroll doesn't know what to make of Sunday's visit to New England. 
"This may be the one that settles the issue, and so we've got to take every one of them like it's a champi­onship game," Carroll said. 
But, moments later, he added, "for weeks, media people have been saying, 'OK, you lose this game, you're out of it.' That couldn't be farther from the truth." 
So what is the truth? 

With four games left, 12 of the 14 AFC teams still have a chance to make the playoffs. Eight of them are 7-5, 6-6 or 5-7. The Patriots and Jets can win the AFC East or fin­ish in last place . 
The Jets were headed for a first-place tie with Miami, leading the Dolphins 24-6 with a minute left in the third quarter last Sunday. New York lost 28-24. 
The Patriots started the season with two losses and endured a four-game slide that dropped them to 3-6, leaving little hope for a play­off berth. But they've won their last three games. 
In the past seven seasons, the Jets have made the play­offs once, the Patriots not at all. 

Friday, December 2, 1994

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
• HOCKEY 
Struggling hockey squad meets Michigan 
By MICHAEL DAY Sporn Writer 
The sand slowly but surely sifts down to the bottom of the hour glass. 
Translation: time is running out on the Notre Dame hockey team to turn around a thus far disappointing season. 
True, there are still three months of hockey to be played in the CCHA. But with seven straight losses and just one win in conference play, the Irish certainly have their work cut out for them heading into Saturday's matchup at Michigan. 
Despite the slump, head coach Ric Shafer is confident the team will snap their five­game losing streak against the third place Wolverines. 
"Without one or two big scor­ers, we've struggled scoring all year long," said Shafer. "But if we do a better job executing, especially on power plays, then we'll be able to turn it around." 
The offense is Jed by junior center Justin Ling and sopho­more center Tim Harberts. 
With a score against 
Princeton at the Great Western 
Freeze-Out over the weekend, 
Harberts leads the squad with 
10 goals. Ling also ranks 
among the conference leaders 
in goals and assists. 
For the Irish to enjoy success over the remainder of the sea­son, they must receive more consistent play at goaltender. Junior Wade Salzman started both games over the weekend, but Shafer still plans to alter­nate Salzman and freshman 

8-20/30
MINUTE PACKAGES 
or 

1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 
(Jak"::IJ~o llitir ('ut~ t:.a.@ 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n-7946 

HOURS: Dall 9 to 8 Sat 9 to 6 Sun. 11·5 
Matt Eisler for now. 
Both players have solid per­formances in starting assign­ments, but neither has been consistent enough to Jock down the starting position. Opponents are averaging 4.31 goals per game against Salzman, while Eisler has struggled with a 4.63 mark. 
The Michigan defense, Jed by goaltender Marty Turco, is the third ranked defense in the CCHA. 
Turco has been outstanding so far this season, saving over 88 percent of opponents' shots on goal. 
On the offensive end, the Wolverines rank second in the conference with 5.62 goals per contest. 
Left Wing Kevin Hilton is tied for first in the CCHA with 17 assists, and center Brendan Morrison ranks second in the conference With 24 points. 
Should the Irish upset Michigan, they will have an ex­cellent opportunity to move up in the standings with struggling Alaska-Fairbanks and Miami of Ohio visiting the Joyce Center on Dec. 9-10. 
However, getting by the 
Wolverines will be no small 
task. 
Mired in ninth place with the season rapidly passing by, it could be now or never for the Irish. 


given by Fr. Joe Ross, CSC 
Sunday 2:00-3:30p.m. at the Log Chapel All are welcome sponsored by 4th Day Board 



2 P.M. • THIS SUNDAY!
kinko·s~ 
the copy center 
Service Aues. 

CHIIMPIO'NSHIP 

.-Featuring YOUR 11 th·ranked FIGHTING IRISH! ..Joyce Center Main Arena 

1994 NCAA DIVISION I VOLLEYBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Friday, December 2, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE No. ITs 'SomE.n\uJ"-1 TvE.
No. 12.E-ALL'i ('f)Of'l\. 
ALWA'Y" (NI'INTEt> To TM-£. 

~,., 'Sl-IOULb "BE A Gp.E>'\T 
~E.S lZEf\LL'1· f:>..,..o IT
1

LL-A'>'> NE'.Y-T 'Se.ME.s·n~~<.. 
"51-\DIJLt> FIT" f1.£ALL'1 WE.LL lwro (Y\'1 /~U ('{\AjoR. ~ ' 
\ (I'; 


l 
CALVIN AND HOBBES Loa¥:. OJT \1.\E W\1'-\\)0W .' IT'S St-GW \NE.! ltlt.R'i:. MIJST 13\:. f.-U<\OSI 11-\N..~ ~N \1'-\CI-\ . Bi 1<\0R~INE., I'Ll 'aE.I nlt.Rt'S TONS Ot' S!'lOW .' DO ~O'V TI-\IN'( W.£ SC.\\OOl'S W\lL  
DILBERT  

DOGBERT'S TE.CH SUPPORT 
HOW DO YOU
PLE.ASE. WAIT W\-\ILE. 
COMPENSATE 

I CONSULT WITH FOR A
SOMEBODY WHO HP.S 
TINY BRAIN I
YOUR EXACT SAfV\E 
RATI3ERT7
PROBLE.M 
)
l 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Presided over, 56 Gram my song as a case of '83 
1 Erie Stanley Gardner pen 
29 Chevron 59 C, to Albert name wearers: Abbr. Einstein 
7 Bo Derek's film 31 --facto &2 The elected 
debut 32 Humble 63 Humorist 11 Jack or jenny 
34 Dog-tired Bombeck 14 Kind of 
36 B, to Samuel 64 Waterford 

association 
Morse worker 15 Preliminary race 
40 Kind of 65 Middle grade 16 Penn, for one: kingdom &6 Monopoly pieceAbbr. 

41--Aires

17 A, to Ludwig 67 Platforms van Beethoven 43 Sharpen 20 Octogenarian's 46 Critic Pauline 
DOWN

goal in life? 
48ltalian "please" 21 Thorns in one's 
49 Playwright 1 "Pooh"side Connelly monogram
22Ask overpersonally 
50 Marched along 2 TV voice of Fred Flintstone

23 Framework 52 Fresh 3 View from 25 Flood residues 53 Last words 
Tokyo 4 Egypt's ---Ra 5 Legal memo 
starter 6 Laugh-a-minute 
comedies 7 Electrical unit 8 "Beverly Hills 
Cop" co-star 9 Beat, in a way 10 Building block 
of nature 11 Invites, as to an apartment .-..:~~.iiir:::+.'::-+7-i 12 Lippizaners 
~=--11111-::'-~=+=:+=-t 13lnsists 
'!'!'t-':-t':t:+.-~B.~:+:::-r.:-1 18 Ford role in "Clear and Present Danger" 
~E. I'. 
014'"\­
r-----l 
19 String on a 
finger, e.g. 22 Third degree? 24 Break up 27 Things to be 
paid 
28 "Chitty Chitty Bang Bang" screenwriter 
30 Oscar Madison, 
e.g. 33 Mont. neighbor 35Live­37 Phrase after 
"Variations" 
DAVE KELLETT 
WP.'i:N'T THAT TilE CLA'i.':l 'TIII'IT L£"T ~ov 'SLE.EP '"' 1 t1LL NooN?"... 
BILL WATTERSON 
I W0!-1\J'i;.R \-\OW r.. c~<.r.,gg'( G~'{ l\Kt. \-1\t.\ GOT \D ~ S\JKR\1{\£.1'-\I)E~\. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'M GOINGTO 
TRANSFER YOU TO AN E.X.PE.RT 
SOT'\ETII"\ES I PP..£TEND TO BE DE..t>.D. 
\ 
~4'\'\c.•:·•:Cc •:1 
38 Type of stand 47 Wolf, in Juarez 51 Put off 
39As a unit 54 Mimed
42 Farm mother 
55 One of the 43 Like ipecac 
Dumas 44 Strauss opera 57 Musical part 
58 Spasms Hall-of-Farner &oPop Bob 61 Refrain intro 45 Dolphin 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE 
:i'' 
.a 


t 
SPORTS 

page 24 Friday, December 2, 1994 

Irish must maintain momentum 
By JASON KELLY 
Associat< Sports Editor 
These are good days for John MacLeod. Jokes come a little easier. Smiles stretch a little wider. 
That's because today, the Notre Dame men's baskeball coaeh stands on the threshold of a successful season, which just three days ago seemed to be almost an impossibility. 
MaeLeod understands that Tuesday's 80-79 win over Indiana was just the first step, albeit a big one, on the long road to respectability for the Irish. 
His players understand, too. One after another talks about maintaining focus and master­ing fundamentals, about con­tinuing to strive for success not yet achieved. But they say it with a smile. 
Allow them this brief bit of basking. These are good days. 
"There has been a flood of phone calls (since the Indiana win)," Macleod said. "The whole office is excited. The en­ergy level has been tremendous and hopefully we'll see a lot 

..... 
TIPOFF  JASON KELLY'S PICK  
Saturday at 10:30 p.m. EST at  Notre Dame by 14.  
the San Diego Sports Arena.  
OUTLOOK  

Notre Dame has been known in recent years to lose games to lesser opponents after big wins like Tuesday's upset of Indiana. For the Irish (2·0) to have the successful season they so covet. they must defeat the San Dlegos on their schedule. 
The Toreros (1-1) are a talented team, boasting guard Doug Harris, who Is averaging 25 points in San Diego's first two games. Forward Sean Flannery adds 19 a contest. Notre Dame Is no longer a one-man show. The Irish bring three double-figure scorers into the game. led by freshman forward Pat Garrity's 16 points per game. Ryan Hoover is averaging 11.5 and Keith Kurowski adds 10. That balance will be the main ingredient in any Irish victo­ry this season. When the offense becomes too top heavy with one scorer, Notre Dame becomes vulnerable. 
• VOllEYBAll 

more of that." 
For that to continue, the Irish must win at San Diego Saturday in their first road game of the season. Notre Dame will stay on the west coast for a Monday date with Loyola Marymount. 
"Anytime you go on the road, it's a challenge and we've got a lot of young players who will have to be ready to go," MacLeod said. "This will be a big-time test for us." 
This is the kind of test the Irish have been prone to fail in recent years. Notre Dame has been known to play to the level of its competition, always ehal­lenging-if not conquering­college basketball's best, but never matching that effort against the mediocre. 
With a lighter slate this sea­son, consistent victories in those "should-win" games could propel the Irish into some sort of post-season party, not to look too far ahead or anything. 
But the Irish have their eyes on those long-range types of 
see IRISH I page 17 


Netters seeing Brown 
Success follows fourth-year coach to Notre Dame 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
When the 12th ranked Notre Dame Volleyball team takes the court at 2 p.m. Sunday for the first match of its third con­secutive NCAA tournament appearance, it will not only be playing for the pride of the blue and gold, but also for the Brown. Debbie Brown, that is. 
As Irish head coach, Brown has had nothing but success in her four seasons at Notre Dame, and this year is no exception. In fact, the 32-3 record the team has achieved this season has gone above and beyond any accomplish­ments of previous Irish teams. including Brown's first three. 
Brown came to the Irish in 1991 after coaching six years at Arizona State. From 1983 to 1988, Brown led the Sun Devils to five NCAA appear­ances and a total record of 117-83. Arizona State is respected as one of the top vol­leyball programs in the coun­try. 
In 1988, Brown took a leave of absence from Arizona State to be an assistant coach for the 
U.S. National team for the year and also at the Olympic Games in Seoul, South Korea. After completing the 1988 season, Brown accepted a full-time job as assistant of the National team where she stayed until coming to the Irish. 

Before she began coaching, Brown played at USC, where in two years, she captained the Trojans to a 72-1 record and two national collegiate titles. Her 1977 team remains the only undefeated women's eol­lege volleyball team in history. 
Brown received the Mikasa Award for best all-around player in the United States in both 1977 and '78. She was also a co-captain on the 1980 Olympic team. Brown is the only head coach in women's college volleyball history to have played on and coached the U.S. Women's Olympic Team. 
see BROWN page I 7 

Irish host Pitt in first round 
By BETSY BAKER SportsWriter 

The Notre Dame volleyball team opens up NCAA tourna­ment action this Sunday ver­sus the University of Pittsburgh. The Irish, who drew a first-round bye, have the homecourt advantage as the match will be played at 2 
p.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The 12th-ranked Irish, who completed their regular sea­son with a record of 32-3, were expecting to see Iowa travel to South Bend this weekend, and were surprised to hear that Pitt had come from behind to knock off the Hawkeyes in five-game thriller 5-15, 16-14,4-15, 16­14, and 15-10. 
Pitt now stands at 21-10, 7­1 in the Big East Conference in which they plaeed first. It will be an interesting match­up on Sunday, much because it will give a preview of what the Irish can expect next year when they join the Big East. 
Pitt's strength lies in their middle blocking and hitting. 
see NCM I page 17 

IRISH HOCKEY  of note...  
The Notre Dame hockey team looks  Notre Dame women's soccer  
for a change of fortunes in a  midfielder Cindy Daws has been  
weekend match-up with Michigan  named one of four finalists for the  
see page 22  1994 player of the year award.  







