

Thursday, January 27, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 77 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Melendez entertains, inspires with music 

By JOHN LUCAS 
Associate News Editor 
For a second, the boy looked unsure. 
At the urging of his mother, he had mustered enough courage to come up to the stage and ask guitarist Tony Melendez to autograph a photo. As he reached out to hand Melendez the picture, the boy hesitated. 
"Put it down here," Melendez said, smiling. "By my feet." 
Despite the fact that he was born without arms, Melendez has been playing guitar with his feet since he was 16 years old. 
"I was just messing around with my father's guitar," he said. "After a while, it turned into music." 
As a result of his mother's use of the defective drug thalidomide during her preg­nancy, Melendez was born with a disability, but that fact has never prevented him from lead­ing a normal life . 
"People look at me like I'm struggling," he said. "But I'm not struggling as much as they think." 
Years of practice have made everyday tasks like writing and eating relatively easy, accord­ing to Melendez. Although has used prosthetic arms during his life, now Melendez finds it just as easy to do things with his feet. 
"Ever since I was little I was 
always putting bits of crayons 
between my toes and drawing," 
he said. "The only problem is 
that doorknobs are too high. 
They should be down by peo­
ple's feet." 
As last night's audience in the 
Lafortune Ballroom watches, 
captivated, Melendez sits in a 
chair, playing Eric Clapton's 
The Observer/T.J. Harris Tony Melendez entertained students at LaFortune last night as he played guitar with his toes. 
"TearsinHeaven." this," he said as he made 
If you weren't watching him, screeching sounds with his gui­there would be no way to tell tar. "If I ever sound like that, that Melendez was born differ-let me know. I'll go home." ently than any of the rest of us. When playing the guitar with That's the way Melendez likes his toes, h~ rarely envies people it. who have arms, he said. 
"When many people come to "When you never have some-see a man without arms play thing, you don't miss it," he guitar, they expect to hear said. "When I'm playing guitar, 
ND documentary expands audience 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
Assistant News Editor 
"Today's Life Choices," a documentary series produced by the University of Notre Dame, is now airing on 55 Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) television stations na­tionwide, according to Richard Conklin, vice president of University Relations. 
The documentary appears on more stations than any other university-produced documen­tary series, said Conklin. 
"There are about 300 PBS stations in America, so the audience for the series is considerable." 
In addition to being used in Notre Dame classrooms, the series is often used by Catholic grade schools and high schools and even armed services tele­vision, said Conklin. 
The Central Educational Network began the distribution of the series via satellite last fall. 
Stations airing the series in­clude KCPT in Kansas City, Missouri, KUHT in Houston, Texas, and WCET in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
In production for the past five years, the series began air­ing exclusively on cable tele­vision stations which carry the national religious network, VISN, and recently spread to public television. 
The secondary markets such as high schools and the armed forces television stations find "Today's Life Choices" useful as a fountainhead for discus­sion of current events and polit­ical concerns, according to Conklin. 
The 30-minute show ad­dresses the ethical issues in­herent in social interaction, ac­cording to Conklin. 
Bioethics, the proposed democratization of Latin America, the challenges to the nation's higher education sys­tem, and "Third World" condi­tions in American cities are some of the topics in "Today's Life Choices." 
Other topics include discus­sion of the status of religion in American culture and the future of the United States space program. 
Guests featured in the series include Attorney General Janet Reno and various professors and administrators from Notre Dame and other prestigious universities. 
Stanford provost and Notre Dame Alumna Candoleez Rice was a guest on the show which will air February 4. 
"We look first to our own school for guests and exper­tise," said Conklin. 
"For discussions of Latin America, for instance, we have the Kellogg Institute. For bio­chemistry discussions we have Professor McCormack. Also, Notre Dame's reputation opens a lot of doors for getting outside consultants." 
The mere mention of the University of Notre Dame sparks nationwide interest and participation, said Conklin. 
Notre Dame solicits topic ideas from various faculty members. 
A panel then compiles the suggestion lists and generates various viewpoints on all issues. An internal committee decides on guests. and the guests are approached with the ideas for the individual shows according to Conklin. 
"Through 'Today's Life Choices,' Notre Dame is work­ing on bringing the same high quality that Notre Dame Magazine possesses in print journalism to television journal­ism," he said. 
Conklin attributes the success of the series to its address of relevant and pervasive social issues. 

mytoesjusttakeover." 
After singing and playing for his parish in Chino, Calif., Melendez played for Pope John Paul II at a youth gathering in Los Angeles in 1987. 
"I just sang a song, and he came off the stage to kiss and embrace me," he said. "I didn't 
see GUITAR I page 4 
SMC expands public relations study program 
ByJENNIFER LEWIS 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's is trying to ex­pand their public relation and advertising program. There will be two new classes offered next year. Writing for Advertising and Public Relations will be offered in the fall and Advertising and Public Relations Campaigns will be added in the SJ?ring, 
Saint Mary's has come a long way in their Public Relations department due to Professor Carla Johnson of the communi­cations department. Four years ago public relations and adver­tising were offered as one gen­eral course. Johnson separated them and is now trying to ex­pand the field even more. 
Eighty percent of graduating Communications majors enter the field of public relations. 
"Students tell me what they learned in advertising courses is what they use in everyday life." said Johnson. "I am ex­cited to create more opportuni­ties, because it is a great pro­fession for women." 
Over fifty percent of the jobs held in the public relations field are occupied by women. 
"We really need to prepare 
our students so they could be 
competitive." said Johnson. 
The new courses have not yet been approved, however. They will be offered next year on an experimental basis before the baard will decide to add it to the curriculum. A full course description will be available in the 1994 Fall Course Book. 
,. . ·,'' ',': 
With tlie traditions aspirations erver .pthrough of work· and positions of Peter's said he maintain the high•of the paper 'While 
•the challenge to 
. ··:··,.. 
:higge~t··gmil is 'to to cinlpr:ove upon tile . :ot:TM"Observer 

r-------------------------------------------------~~­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, January 27, 1994 INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE White House says it's ready to talk on health care plan 


INDIANA Weather 
WASHINGTON 

The White House offered concessions on 
the scope of its health plan Wednesday just hours after President Clinton drew a no-exceptions line on universal coverage. 
Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole pro­nounced the Clinton health plan "in trou­ble," but Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., asserted that Americans won't stand for a Republican filibuster. 
The president met with House Democratic leaders and key committee chairmen to map strategy for the struggle over the Clinton Health Security Act and a half-dozen com­peting bills. 
The president, still hoarse from Tuesday night's State of the Union address, later can­celed a speech at a lo~al school on doctors' orders to recover his voice. 
But his surrogates wasted no time making conciliatory sounds on the morning after the 
coverage for every American. 
Treasury Secretary Uoyd Bentsen told business groups that Clinton was willing to let more big companies self-insure rather than being forced into the regional alliances where most Americans would have to buy their insurance. 
White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers also said that while Clinton stands firm on universal coverage, the timetable for achieving it is "something that has to be worked out." 
House Speaker Thomas Foley, emerging from the White House strategy session, said, "It's possible you will have some kind of a phase-in." 
Republicans said Clinton will have to jettison his plan's employer mandates and limits on health care spending if he wants the legislation enacted this year. 
"His program is in trouble," Dole said on NBC-TV. Repeating his argument that the current system works well for 85 percent of Americans, Dole told Fox-TV, "We don't need a triple bypass to take care of the health care delivery system or this massive overdose of government that President Clinton proposes." 
U.S. ends largest MIA search since Vietnam 
HANOI 
The United States' biggest search to try to account for American troops missing in the Vietnam War ended Wednesday, after drawing praise from U.S. officials for Vietnamese cooperation. A U.S. official declined to say how many remains were found during the three-week search pending a joint U.S.-Vietnamese forensics review. A similar operation is planned to begin in late February and run for four weeks. Visiting U.S. officials visited dur­ing the operation to try to gauge the extent of Vietnam's cooperation. Two participants, Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., and Adm. Charles R. Larson, commander of U.S. military forces in the Pacific, said Hanoi was not holding anything back. President Clinton has made resumption of econom­ic and diplomatic ties with Vietnam contingent on Hanoi's cooperation in trying to account for 2,238 American MIAs in Indochina, including 1,647 missing in Vietnam. Relatives of MIAs and veterans organizations who oppose lifting the trade embargo accuse the Vietnamese of with­holding information. Kerry said in Washington on Tuesday that he planned to meet with the president later this week and recommend ending the embargo. Larson's favorable assessment als11 will weigh in Clin~on's deci­sion. The United States backed South Vietnam during the Vietnam War and cut off diplomatic and economic ties in 1975 when the South fell to communist North Vietnam. 
president delivered a blunt threat to veto 
L_____...,..-__....::....__________________________________j 
any health, reform plan that did not include Source: Working Group draft of Oinflln's health plan AP 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather<~> forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 27. 

....&....a.. ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Q 1994 Acru-Weaher, Inc. 
Prt1811UfB 

HJGH LOW SHOWERS RAJN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta  70  52  Denver  24  18  New York  78  54  
Baltimore  34  34  Goodland  19  15  Philadelphia  32  21  
Boston  10  06  Los Angeles  65  46  Phoenix  61  42  
Chicago  25  22  Miami  75  71  St. Louis  35  33  
Colombus  27  21  Minneapolis  17  13  San Francisco  58  48  
Dallas  72  66  New Orleans  60  49  Seattle  46  40  

How reform will impact health care costs 
WMe House projections of what national health care spending would be without any changes and under i1s proposed reforms. The baseline 
figures are estimates from the Congressional Budget Office. 
Health care spending ...and as a percentage of (in trillions of dollars)... gross domestic product 
$1.8trillion 20% 
7

1. I Without reform --------1
6 

1. I With reform 19 
1.5 ............____________ 1.4 1-------.-­18 
1.3 1------­17 
16 
15 
o.. 14 


'95 '96 '97 '98 '99 2000 1994 '95 '96 '97 '98' '99 2000 
Bentsen acknowledged that big business has problems with Clinton's proposal to force all companies with up to 5,000 employees into regional insurance-purchasing alliances. 
"You think the 5,000-employee threshold ... is too high," he told the National Association of Manufacturers and a pension group. "We hear you. We're willing to dis­cuss this one and the other details of our plan." 
"We got the concept right, but the president couldn't have been more clear when he said we're open for dis­cussion on this as well as other issues," said Bentsen. 
But Bentsen said he was troubled by suggestions that only companies with 100 or fewer workers should be in the pools. That would be too small to spread the risks around, he argued. 
Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., the Energy and Commerce Committee chairman whose panel may be the first out of the gate on health reform, said the timetable for achiev­ing universal coverage "is open to friendly negotiation with the president." The Clinton bill would require all Americans to be covered by Jan. 1, 1998. 
Angela Lakeberg's surgery successful 
GARY 
Angela Lakeberg, the siamese twin whose separation surgery drew international attention, has successfully undergone a three-hour procedure to widen her pul­monary artery. The 7 -month-old Wheatfield girl remained in serious but stable condition Wednesday at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, the Gary Post­Tribune reported. The purpose of the procedure was to widen the artery pumping blood from the baby's heart to her lung. Hospital spokeswoman Sarah Jarvis told the Post-Tribune that Angela responded well to the treat­ment. The infant remains on a mechanical ventilator which assists her breathing. "I think we did a lot of good with this procedure," Dr. Elsa Suh said. "This artery was very, very narrow and located deep in her chest." Angela was born last June 29 sharing a heart and liver with her siamese twin, Amy. The two were separated Aug. 20 in surgery that lasted 13 hours. Amy did not survive. 
Two workers dead, four hurt by fumes 
SUMMIT, Ill. 
A man working in a sewer at a junkyard was overcome by fumes Wednesday, followed by five others who went down one by one in failed rescue attempts. Two died and four others were hospitalized. 
--~--------­
Preparations for JPW 
--------------~------~--------------------~~--~-, 

page 3 

Romania first to enroll in new partnership plan 
By SALLY JACOBSEN 
Associated Press Writer 
BRUSSELS 
NATO enrolled Romania on Wednesday as the first nation in its new program offering co­operation to former Warsaw Pact foes while denying them full membership in the military alliance. 
Romanian Foreign Minister Teodor Melescanu signed the document during a meeting with ambassadors of the 16 na­tions in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 
In doing so, his nation be­came the first to accept the partnership offered earlier this month by President Clinton and other NATO leaders. 
"I hope it is a good omen for the future of our relationship," Melescanu said. 
He said his country saw the program "as a preliminary stage to Romania's future 
membership in NATO's political and military structures." The program, proposed by 
The Observer/T.J. Harris 

Jim Schermerhorin, a Morrissey junior, auditions to be a lector during Junior Parents Weekend. 
the United States, will allow 
FREE  AREER IGHT Thursday, January 27 from 8-10 p.m. Notre Dame Room 2nd Floor of LaFortune PIZZA CASUAL ATMOSPHER•  

East European nations to join NATO in military exercises, peacekeeping operations and other activities. But it does not grant them the membership and security guarantees they are seeking. 
Melescanu said his country already had begun informal consultations with NATO mili­tary experts and hoped to con­duct joint peacekeeping exer­cises later this year. 
President Algirdas Brazauskas of Lithuania planned to sign up Thursday, followed by Poland and possibly Estonia next week. 
The program is part of NATO's efforts to redefine its role in the post-Cold War era. NATO was formed in 1949 as a deterrent to Soviet expansion. 
The allies have declined for now to grant membership to their former adversaries be­cause of worries that might create new divisions in Europe and isolate and upset Russia. 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin has cautioned against any effort to push NATO's terri­tory eastward. 
Poland, Hungary and other nations are worried about eth­nic conflict and political turmoil spreading in their region and feel NATO membership is need­ed for security. 
Under NATO's treaty, mem­bers agree to consider an armed attack on any one of them as an attack on all. 
In his State of the Union ad­dress Tuesday night, Clinton sought to reassure former Soviet bloc nations, saying that "the security of their region is important to our country's se­curity." 
Nations that become NATO partners will be required to share information about de­fense budgets and military forces, promise civilian control over the military and standard­ize weapons systems. 
11ft ~ sPtlll6 IW ltftt# 




SPRING EElK
COMPLETE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH 

~ 13Hl.'·'J·h' ~ ~ MftiHitW ~ 
VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANC: ISLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDC:E/KEYSTONE 
"Pflll'fRSGIID!PEIIDIIIGOtiOfSTIIU.TIOit/lllfAIOATfS{UitGTHOfSTAY 
FOR AIIIIITIONAL IIIFOIIMMJON I RESERVATIONS

It• •BDD•SUNCHASEI 
!""'----~-------------------~---~--­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, January 27, 1994 

Clinton's quake aid bill introduced 
ByAIANFRAM Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Forty-four House members introduced President Clinton's legislation Wednesday to rush billions of dollars to earth­quake-stricken California. 
The measure would provide $6.2 billion of the $7.5 billion in federal resources the adminis­tration said it will pour into the state. Another $900 million from past budgets is already being directed at the battered Los Angeles area, and $400 million more in disaster loans will come later. 
The House Appropriations Committee is likely to consider the bill next Tuesday, with a vote by the full House expected two days later. Senate action would follow. Administration officials have told congressional leaders they would like the leg­islation on Clinton's desk by Feb. 11, the day before law­makers begin a mid-winter re­cess. 
As the White House promised, Clinton proposed paying for the aid by federal borrowing, which boosts the federal deficit. Budget rules allow the govern­ment to borrow money for expenditures that the president and Congress agree are emer­gencies. 
Conservatives from both par­ties in the House and Senate plan to try to force the presi­dent to finance the assistance with cuts in other programs. 
The bill's 44 sponsors include 36 California lawmakers and eight others who are leaders of the appropriations panel. 
The money would be mostly for disaster relief by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. rebuild­ing of roads and buildings. and loans and grants to individuals and businesses that lost prop­erty. 
Meanwhile, congressional leaders named two lawmakers to chair a bipartisan House task force that is supposed to find acceptable ways of financing the recoveries from future dis­asters. 
House Speaker Thomas Foley, D-Wash., promised to create the task force last sum­mer after conservatives ob­jected to a measure that relied on borrowed money to provide aid to flooded Midwest commu­nities. 
The task force idea lan­guished until last week's Los Angeles quake made the ques­tion of disaster aid a political issue again. 
Co-chairing the task force will be Reps. Richard Durbin, D-IlL, and Bill Emerson, R-Mo. Addi.tional members of the panel will be named later. 

Supermarket roof collapses in France 

Associated Press about 15 were still trapped in the rubble. NICE The regional civil defense 
The concrete roof at a busy headquarters had earlier re­supermarket in Nice collapsed ported 10 deaths, but later re­Wednesday. Authorities said at vised the figure. least two people were killed, more than 90 were injured and Rescue crews, assisted by 

Guitar 
continued from page 1 
know that it would become such a big experience in my life." 
After playing for the Pope, Melendez received national ex­posure and began a tour of the country. 
Four albums and 48 states later, Melendez cites two per­formances as the other high­lights of his career. 
While in Poland, Melendez played for an estimated crowd of 1.5 million people, and in Rome he gained an audience with the Pope to play for him a second time. 

Since then, he has continued touring, along the way playing for church functions, college audiences and youth groups. Occasionally he also gives moti­vational speeches. 
Although many of his fans find his story inspirational, Melendez shrugs off the extra attention. 
"I can see how people think that what I do is inspiring, but I just want to play guitar," he said. 
Although most of the time Melendez is treated normally, he said that he occasionally en-dogs, searched carefully into the night, working around chunks of concrete that had fallen into the aisles of gro­ceries. 


More than 70 of the injured were hospitalized, including at least six reported in serious condition, officials said. 
The collapse occurred about 4 p.m. in the Casino supermar­ket, which faces the Nice air­port and is near the western end of the city's famous seaside boulevard, the Promenade des Anglais. 
Some survivors said they felt a slight trembling just before the collapse. But authorities said they had no immediate clues as to the cause of the dis­aster. 
For several weeks, construc­tion crews had been working to enlarge the store, but it was unclear if the project had any link with the collapse. 
Traffic in the area on the west side of the Mediterranean resort city was seriously dis­rupted as police sought to clear paths for dozens of rescue vehi­cles and ambulances. 
counters people who are shocked by his appearance. 
"You never know how people react. Sometimes they stare," he said. "But that's their prob­lem." 
Contracts to favored companies 
ASenate report indicates that some 
U.S. government agencies circum­vented federal law so that contracts could go to tawred companies. 
The practice, kn<mn as off-loading, occurs when one agency, faced with spending limitations or tough contracting rules, finds asecond agency with looser rules. The first agency specifies atawred contractor who is then hired by the second agency. 
An example 

H<m a Defense Department ~e circum vented the law by routing a contract through another agency: 

The Pentagon's Non-Acoustic Anti-Submarine Warfare Office needed acontract for classified research, but wanted specific contractors to do the work. Pentagon rules would haw required alengthy bidding process among companies competing for the business. 

To circumvent this requirement the Defense Department office arranged for the Tennessee Valley Authority, an electric utility, to manage the contract TVA entered an ESG subcontracted agreement with ESG out 96 percent of the Inc., described in a work, without Senate report as 'a com petition, to tiny company made subcontractors up of just alew selected t1f the employees, who did Anti-Submarine none of the required Warfare Office. research themselves.• Between February 
and August 1991, the anti-submarine office sent $6.6 million to TVA and ESG using this channel. 

AP/Karl Tate 
Federal agencies bend rules 
Associated Press Defense Department, the Postal 
Service, the Environmental 
The federal rules on competi­Protection Agency and the U.S. tive bidding are tough -and Geological Survey, have found very clear. ways to evade the law and 
steer millions of dollars in gov­But a number of major feder­ernment business to favored al agencies, including the contractors. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 


Rt!;)' 0 ~~th 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square (219)277.. 1291
51408 31 North 

Phone Answered 24 hrs.
South Bend, IN 46637 


~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have stron~ ~ditorial an~ journalistic _skills and be com­fortable in a management posttton. A baste understandmg of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any full-time Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior Busine~s maj.or at Notre Dame or Saint ~ary's interested in valuable work expenence IS encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills, and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Please submit a 3 page personal statement ofin:ent and a resume_t~ jake Peters by Friday, February 4 at 5 p.m. For questzons about the_posttzons call Managing Editor, Kevin Hardman at 631-4541 or Busmess Manager Brian Kennedy at 631-5313. 

Thursday, January 27, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 

Winter sketching 
Saint Mary's student Beck Kellogg sketched the frozen fountain outside Haggar Colle!Je Center yesterday. 

India displays military might 
By KRISHNAN GURUSWAMY 
Associated Press Writer 
India displayed its Prithvi missile for the first time Wednesday in a show of grow­ing military might that has troubled Western leaders. 
The missile, which can carry a one-ton warhead up to 155 miles, is part of a program that has raised concerns about India's ability to conduct nu­countries have risen over the predominately Muslim Kashmir region in northern India, which Pakistan claims as its territory. 
The India-developed Prithvi, paraded Wednesday during Republic Day celebrations marking the 44th anniversary of India's constitution, was de­ployed last year. Four other long-and short-ranged missiles are under development. 
Helicopters showered rose mounted on tall buildings over­looking the parade site, and 6,000 policemen ringed the area to guard against terrorist attacks. 

Two rockets crashed outside a stadium at a Republic Day celebration Wednesday in Kashmir. No one was injured, and no one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack, which police blamed on Muslim rebels. 
clear war against Pakistan, petals on dignitaries and thou­which also is believed to have sands of civilians watching the nuclear weapons capability. parade in sunny spring-like If deployed near India's bor­weather. About 2,000 soldiers der with Pakistan, the missile in crisp blue, green and red could hit most of eastern tunics marched down the broad Pakistan. boulevard between the presi­India and Pakistan have dent's palace and the India fought three wars since 1947. Gate war memorial. Tensions between the two Six antiaircraft guns were  TAlE THE KEYs CALi ACAB­TAlE ASTANO fRifNOS DON'T lH fRifNOS DRIV( DRUNK  
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 9 Month ­10 Month ­12 Month Leases FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. STUDENT ACCOMMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. WE TAKE SECURI1Y AND SAFE1Y SERIOUSLY. Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff Call Dorene NOW 2 72--1441  

Five killed in tnarket were likely executed 
By lAWRENCE KOOTNIKOFF 
Associated Press 
A leading forensic pathologist disputes the government's find­ing that five men killed in a vil­lage marketplace during an Indian uprising were not exe­cuted by the Mexican army. 
Dr. Clyde Snow, an interna­tionally recognized consultant for the Boston-based Physicians for Human Rights. said Tuesday night that the five men had been lined up and shot, probably by soldiers. 
Human rights activists have accused the army of commit­ting widespread abuses when it drove guerrillas out of San Cristobal de las Casas, Ocosingo and several other highland towns in the impoverished southern state of Chiapas. 
The bodies were seen by re­porters in Ocosingo on Jan. 4, shortly after soldiers retook the town. They were in a row and all seemed to have been shot in the head. 
The dead men appeared to have been members of the Zapatista National Liberation Army, the group that launched the uprising Jan. 1 to demand better living and economic con­ditions for Indians. 
The Mexican attorney gener­
-al's office issued a report Jan. 7 saying the men were not exe­cuted and had not been shot with weapons used by the 
army. Snow disagreed. 
"They appeared to have been kneeling, with their hands tied behind their backs," he said. "They exhibited gunshot wounds to the back of the head. 
"The evidence indicates that this is a classical extrajudicial execution ... done by the army," he added. 
Snow said he and Dr. Margarita Arruza, also of Physicians for Human Rights, came to that conclusion after examining autopsy reports and photographs. 
Dr. Tom Crane, the local rep­resentative of the group, called the attorney general's report "gibberish." 
Ocosingo was the scene of some of the fiercest fighting before the guerrillas retreated back into the forests and jun­gles of Mexico's southernmost state. Mexican and interna­tional human rights activists have pointed to the five slay­ings in Ocosingo as an example of human rights abuses by sol­diers. 
The government says 107 people -mostly rebels -died in the fighting before Salinas declared a cease-fire Jan. 10. Local church officials and other independent groups put the death toll in the hundreds. 
In Washington, Assistant Secretary of State Alexander Watson said Tuesday that U.S. officials would meet with repre­sentatives of Amnesty International and Americas Watch to discuss their criti­cisms of the army's handling of the uprising. 
"We are terribly concerned 

by these reports," Watson said. 
Mexican diplomats in Washington dismissed some criticism, especially that by Rep. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J., who wrote to President Carlos Salinas de Gortari criticiziM the barring of rights advocaies from some of the combat zones. Salinas, whose prestige has suffered, ordered the govern­ment's National Human Rights Commission to investigate the 
abuse allegations. 
"If I see something that 

doesn't jibe with what they're 
saying, you'll know about it," 
he said, adding that he had 
seen nothing to indicate com­
mission officials "were not try­
ing to get to the truth." 




SENIORS: SEE YOU 
TONIGHT 
AT 

~\)~ 
!i CLUB • 

"0]yl0~ 

DON'T FORGET YOUR GREEN 22 OZ. PLASTIC THINGS 


AND TOMORROW 
FOR FRIDAY LUNCH 
START YOUR WEEKEND OFF RIGHT! 
page 6 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 27, 1994 
Bosnia aid crisis deepens as civilians fire on convoys 
By MAUD S. BEELMAN Associated Press Writer 
SARAJEVO 
Civilians mobbed a U.N. food convoy and wounded six of its Bosnian police escorts Wednesday, in a grim demon­stration of escalating lawless­ness driven by hunger and des­peration. 
The officers suffered bullet wounds in the attack on the 10­truck convoy as it entered Ticici, a Muslim village near Kakanj, 30 miles northwest of Sarajevo, where about 200 civilians waited for it, U.N. offi­cials said. 
"Somebody opened fire at the escort from the window of a house," said Kris Janowski, a 

U.N. spokesman in Sarajevo. 
The six policemen were be­ing treated in a hospital. Janowski said aid convoys along the route were suspended -a move that would affect Kakanj, Visoko and Tuzla, the Muslim -led government's biggest stronghold outside Sarajevo. 
"Obviously, it is a very seri­ous problem in an area where we already have serious prob­lems," Janowski said. Even be­fore the attacks at Ticici, only about 21 percent of intended aid supplies for that area were getting through, he said. 
It was the second attack at Ticici in two days. On Tuesday, hundreds of villagers mobbed another convoy and beat Bosnian government police of­ficers escorting the trucks after they fired warning shots in the air. One suffered leg wounds in return fire from the crowd. 
Janowski said the trucks were allowed to proceed Tuesday only after some cargo was looted. 
Serbs, Croats and Muslims all have been accused of attacking or interfering with aid convoys as they try to starve out their rivals. But those have been war tactics, usually carried out by soldiers of the various factions. 
The most recent attacks reveal the desperation of civilians who believe they are denied a fair share of food aid. 
People in territory held by the government receive signifi­cantly less aid than those living in Croat-or Serb-controlled ar­eas, mainly because they are isolated from border areas where the aid enters Bosnia, 
U.N. officials say. And some of the food is diverted to soldiers of the Muslim-led Bosnian army. 
In related comments. but be­fore news of the Ticici attack, Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic condemned those in­terfering with the flow of aid, which is crucial for the survival of more than 2 million people. 
"Whoever blocks the road ­be they Bosnians, Serbs or Croats -should be bombed," he said in Sarajevo after meet­ing with Lt. Gen Michael Rose of Britain, the new commander of U.N. peacekeepers in Bosnia. 
U.N. brass usually travel in armored cars. But on his sec­ond day of command, Rose walked the 550 yards from his residence to the Bosnian presi­dency in an unprecedented show of bravado aimed at be­sieging Serb militiamen in the surrounding hills who could easily track him with their binoculars. 


First black commander has faith in prison reforms 
By DONNA BRYSON enforcing laws that once denied As he strolls around the namesake town, which is sur­And punishing prisoners by Associated Press them basic rights. prison, whites address Khoza rounded by dramatic rocky denying them food or visits "I had that dream that one as "meneer," or "sir," an hills. But the bleak prison inte­from their relatives also has 
BARBERTON day the whole correctional ser­Afrikaans title rarely directed rior -slick gray walls, gray ended. 
When Msuthu Timothy Khoza vice would change its color," from white to black. concrete floors, cold bars -re­Khoza said he wants to give came to Barberton Prison as a Khoza said. "A man does not The prisoners greet him with flects the notoriety Barberton prisoners opportunities to learn young guard, he was joining the simply run away from the work shouts of "Com Khoza!" when gained for its brutality. trades or further their educa­iron fist of apartheid. that he loves simply because he enters the exercise yards or A few years ago, men work­tion. When he was head of the 
Thirty-three years later, things were not the best they walks past their cramped cells. ing on the prison farm report­maximum security division, he Khoza is the first black com­could be." He greets them in Zulu or his edly died from heat exhaustion. started a choir and sewing and mander of a major South Barberton rarely held politi­native Swazi. Khoza also speaks Now, the men tending the fruit carpentry workshops. African prison. He believes his cal prisoners, and Khoza has English and Mrikaans. and vegetables grown for "I've always believed that a rise vindicates his faith that the little patience with the idea that From outside, the prison's prison consumption are taken prisoner is a human being. system can be reformed from many blacks were forced into cream walls and red tiles are as inside when it gets too hot, That's been my philosoph}\." within. crime because they were de­picturesque as any sight in its Khoza said. Khoza said. 
As South Mrica faces its first nied education and opportunity. multiracial elections in April "One cannot run away and and the prospect of a black-led say, 'Maybe it's because they government, the prisons and were underprivileged,"' he police -the institutions that said. "I don't run away from formerly enforced apartheid -the truth." are scrambling to change with Khoza was born in the farm­
the times and shake their repu­ing community of Nelspruit, just tations as black oppressors. over the ridge from Barberton 
Plans call for the army to in the northeast corner of the merge with its erstwhile black country. As a boy, he saw black guerrilla opponents, aligned prisoners on work gangs being with the African National guarded by whites armed with Congress, in a new defense bats and spears~ He decided force. then that working in a prison 
The correctional services staff would give him a chance to "try of more than 23,000 is split al­to convince my people that most evenly between white and crime does not pay." non-white, but only 104 of Khoza oversees about 2,800 1,575 officers are black. And prisoners, most of them black, though blacks command two with the help of a staff of about training colleges, Khoza, 53, 700 from an office decorated became the first black officer in with a large photograph of December to head a maximum President F.W. de Klerk and a security prison. statuette of a Zulu warrior. 
"Things are changing, but "Him and me, we've been they will not change in one brothers for a long time," said day," he said. Lt. Col. J.C. Hall, a white officer 
He feels satisfied with his de­who took over as head of the cision to stay with the correc­maximum security division at tions service although many Barberton when Khoza was blacks consider it a betrayal, promoted to commander. 
CAVANAUGH HALL PLAYERS PRESENT THE ODD COUPLE 6y Neil8imDn Thursday, Friday, Saturday r-January 27, 28,29 'J'BJ~ IAS'J' (.,H I ~ ... llN(.,E8:10pm 'J'f) SEJ~ 'J'HJ7 " CA1~NAI1f'H 4 ., RilllWashington Hall JlfAYI~IlS Free Admission  

NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS "Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" • SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS • NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS • ENTRY SECURITY • LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAilABLE • 4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS • PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM • SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW • PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS • SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY Now TAKING APPliCATIONS FOR '94-'95 SCHOOL YFAR FoR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 232-8256  



GRADUATE STUDENTS WANTED 
The Graduate Student Union is currently accepting nominations for GSU President and Vice President for 1994-1995. Interested persons should call the GSU office at 631-6963 before February 1. 
REWARDS 

Thursday, January 27, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Remembering the Leningrad siege 
By MAXIM KORZHOV Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG 

Of all the horrors of the 900­day Nazi siege of Leningrad, Tatyana Sukhanova remembers best the day her mother sold her wedding ring to buy meat. It came from the black market and tasted strangely sweet. 
"Mother turned deadly pale and forbid me to eat it. I could-. n't stop crying," said Sukhanova, now 64. 
It wasn't until after the war she learned it was human flesh. 
"Mother went to the police and they arrested the man who sold her the meat. I don't know who he was or what happened to him, but that sweet taste is still in my mouth." 
This week the city, which took back its czarist name of St. Petersburg in 1991, is celebrat­ing the 50th anniversary of the end of the siege. A $5 million celebration of concerts, fire­works and parades is planned for Thursday, to be attended by President Boris Yeltsin. 
German troops first encircled Leningrad in August 1941. After failing to take it with bombing raids and heavy shelling, the Nazis decided to starve the city into submission. 
They thought it would take a couple of weeks; it lasted nearly three years. 
Historians say at least half of Leningrad's prewar population of 3 million died, mainly of hunger and cold. 
"They haven't yet released the real death toll," said Dmitry Likhachev, 88, a prominent his­torian and siege survivor. 
He said a colleague who worked for the city told him 1.2 million people starved, but that figure only included official res­idents of the city, which was packed with refugees from the Nazi invasion in nearby re­gions. 
Likhachev believes more than 3 million people died. 
Stories of cannibalism and other atrocities were sup­pressed for decades, coming to light only in Mikhail Gorbachev's era of glasnost. 
Official Soviet history em­phasized the glorious aspects of the blockade: composer Dmitry Shostakovich writing his 7th Symphony in the besieged city, for instance. The work was first performed on Aug. 9, 1942, in Leningrad and was broadcast live to infuriated Nazi troops on the front line. 
In recent years, however, historians have focused on the siege's grimmer episodes. 
"Only then did we learn there was a special police unit to fight cannibals," said Yuri Kolosov, chairman of the Association of Historians of the Leningrad Siege. He said 260 people were arrested for canni­balism. 
During the first months of the siege, city residents re­ceived a daily ration of about a quarter pound of bread. Before long, all the city's cats and dogs were eaten, then rats and crows, and then people started to scrape off wallpaper to eat the paste. They boiled leather coats and ate them. 
Finally, it came to cannibal­ism. Gangs wandered through the dark city looking for human prey, and parents were afraid to let their children outside. 
Meanwhile, the city was hammered by German bombs and shells, which destroyed nearly one-third of the build­ings. 
Some historians now argue that Soviet dictator Josef Stalin should have surrendered the city to ease the suffering. 
Harrison Salisbury, the New York Times correspondent whose landmark account of the siege was recently published in Russian, believed the city suf­fered partly because Stalin feared it. In the late 1920s, Leningrad was a center of anti­Stalin opposition, and after the war many heroes of the siege died in purges. 
Still, historians such as Kolosov say the suffering was­n't in vain. · 
"Leningrad diverted up to 30 percent of the German troops on the Eastern Front," Kolosov said. He said the Leningrad­based Baltic Fleet kept raw materials from reaching Germany from Scandinavia. 
Of St. Petersburg's 5 million residents today, about 400,000 are siege survivors. Many are going hungry again, struggling to get by on meager state pen­sions as Russia painfully moves toward a market economy. 
Natalia Voloshina, 81, said that in some ways things were easier back then. 
"The times were hard and many people died, but they knew it wasn't in vain and that we would win," she said while standing in a line of some 500 siege survivors to collect a one­time payment of 10,000 to 15,000 rubles ($6.50 to $10) to mark the anniversary. 
"Relations between people were better than now, and peo­ple helped each other." she said. "Now they live like wolves, not caring about others. They remember veterans and the siege survivors only on the anniversary." 
Organization and Israel signed 
an accord Sept. 13 calling for 
Israel to withdraw from G 
and Jericho. 
Under· the Washington 
cord, Israel was to begin 
drawing on Dec. 13 and 
turning over day-to-day 
ning. of the areas -Palestinians as a test for 
wider peace agreement later. 
But after repeated meetings 
by various negotiators, the 
side.s have failed to agree 
who will guard borders 
Jordaq and Egypt and h 
much. land Israel will ce 
around Jericho. 
The border crossings seem 
to be the main sticking point. 
Israel insists on keeping 
army at the borders for 
rity, but the PLO says the 
ence of lsraeli soldiers 
mean Palestinians would 
real.autonomy. 
.. Officials in Israel alsothe negotiations may take Yossi Beilin. the _deputy rnr...an• minister, told state-run 
,.he Davos meeting would ·· ~·hnportant but not ne<:es!>ari thelast one." Sbaath and other :Q.egotiators1ooked worn out did ...... the end of the day. One PL ort~t$ ·"' . . . e, Ahmed Quria' · ·· at reporters who UQ~OUU'U him. 

EVERYBODY CAN DANCE REGARDLESS OF AGE, RACE, GENDER, PHYSICAL CONDITION, DANCING OR ACTING ABILITY # ~ ~ ""---........, ........__.._......... a participation dance perlbrmance JANUARY 28 AT 7:00PM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM MUST BE THERE IN THE BEGINNING SMC • ND ID REQUIRED 8rougllt to you 6y the IYiuftiCulturaf Executive Council  

pageS The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 27, 1994 

Ex-KGB says he penetrated Israel's nuclear facilities 
By ALLYN FISHER 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Stepping out of the shadows 20 years after being freed in a spy swap, former Soviet agent Yuri Linov revealed Wednesday that he had penetrated Israel's top secret nuclear laboratories. 
A lieutenant-colonel for the KGB, Linov was sent to Israel disguised as a Jewish immi­grant from Austria in 1968. He even underwent circumcision in Moscow to protect his cover. 
For five years, Linov said, he operated a ring of agents, in­cluding informants inside Israel's nuclear reactors at Dimona in the Negev Desert and Nahal Sorek on the Mediterranean coast. 

He claimed he found out Israel was working on an atom­ic weapon but doesn't believe he broke any new ground. 
"I guess it was known. There are only a few secrets left in this modern world," said Linov, who spoke to The Associated Press Wednesday while on a business stop in the Bavarian town of Hassfurt, Germany. 
The Justice Ministry said a spy with the cover name of Karl Mutel, Linov's alias on an Austrian passport, had been sentenced to 18 years in prison for espionage in the 1970s. 
"Document," a television program that broke news of the Linov case Tuesday, said he was charged with giving the KGB information on weapons production, secret bases, politi­cal and security officials and immigration. Precise details are still under wraps, it said. 
Linov was freed a year after his capture in March 197 3 as part of a swap in which at least seven other spies were released including Israelis posted in Arab countries such as Yemen and Egypt, he told The AP. 
At his closed-door trial, Linov said, "I pleaded guilty because I felt guilt. It's a small country and I understood the problems as though they were my own." 
Linov said he spied for more than 16 years in Europe as well as in Israel. He was being groomed to spy in the United 

Prince Charles cool under fire 
By GEOFF SPENCER 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY 
Britain's Prince Charles, ea­ger to boost his image after the breakup of his marriage to Princess Diana, has proved one thing: he can stay cool under fire. 
The 45-year-old heir to the throne hardly flinched Wednesday when a young man ran out of a crowd, lunged at him and fired two blank shots from a starter's pistol during an outdoor ceremony marking Australia's national day. 
The prince saw the man run toward him and froze momen­tarily as the shots rang out. Afterward, he calmly adjusted his cuff links. 
Within minutes of his as­sailant's arrest, Charles, un­harmed, carried on with his speech. He joked with the crowd, and later assured guests at a cocktail party that he was fine. 
"He played it cool. He wants everyone to know he is OK," said Sydney Lord Mayor Frank Sartor, one of the dignitaries on stage during the incident. Others on stage were knocked from their seats in the commo­tion. 
CORRECTION 
Due to an editing error, a speaker was incorrectly identi­fied in the Faculty Business Forum of Tuesday's Business page. The speaker should have been identified as Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus. The Observer regrets the error. 

Police said the assailant, 23­
year-old university student 
David Kang, wrote Prince 
Charles last month to complain 
about Australia's treatment of 
several hundred Cambodian 
boat people held in detention 
camps. 
The prince's staff had writ­
ten back that Charles could not 
become involved in the matter. 
Kang was jailed and charged under a federal law to protect international VIPs. If convicted, he could be imprisoned for a maximum of 20 years. 
He is scheduled to appear in court early Thursday. 
The prince did not comment to reporters. His aides said he was unconcerned about his safety and would continue his tour of Australia. 
New South Wales state Police Minister Terry Griffiths de­scribed the attack as a "stunt, not an assassination attempt." 
"There was no risk to the prince's physical being at any stage," he said. 
Griffiths criticized Buckingham Palace for insist­ing on low-level protection so the prince could be close to the public. The palace's instruc­tions were "that there are to be no security forces between the prince and the public," he said. 
Buckingham Palace did not comment on the incident. 
Charles and other members of the British royal family regu­larly shake hands aiid talk with ordinary people at public events, with little security in evidence. 
At Wednesday's celebration in a downtown Sydney park, more than 10,000 people, in-
eluding many families with 
small children, witnessed the 
attack. 
Kang, sitting in a crowd on the grass near the stage, stood up as the prince prepared to deliver his speech and fired one blank. 
A loud crack rang out and smoke rose from the pistol. 
Kang then jumped a low bar­ricade and ran to the stage, lunging toward the prince. Another shot went off as he tripped over a lectern and fell, just a few feet from Charles. 
Security officers and digni­taries wrestled the man to the ground while bodyguards shielded the prince. 
Charles was on the third day of an official 12-day Australian tour. He has been warmly re­ceived by the public, despite a government push to declare Australia a republic and sever ties with the British crown by 2001. 
In London, members of Parliament questioned whether Australian authorities had been lax in their duties. 
"Responsibility for his secu­rity in Australia lies primarily with the Australian government which will have some serious questions to answer," said Robert Maclennan of the Liberal Democratic Party. 
Conservative lawmaker Sir George Gardiner said he was concerned about Charles' safe­ty. 
"But I don't know what he's doing out there anyway," Gardiner said. "These Aussies are being a pain in the arse and the sooner they jump into the South Pacific the better." 
WHY f Ak'E ABUS fO fHE BEACH WHEN YOU CAN SfAY fN ABEACH fi?ONf HOfEL???? 
Anthony Travel's SPRING BREAK 1994 
Packages Options: 

(1) 
Cozumel, Mexico 

(2) 
Cancun, Mexico 


(3) 
Nassau, Bahamas 


All Packages Include: 8 days I 7 nights Air from Chicago Plus much more!! 
from $478 
ANTHONY TRAVEL ..... ON CAMPUS!! 
Call Today! 631 -7080 or stop by in the basement of LaFortune Student Center! 
The official travel service of Notre Dame 
States when his superiors de­cided to send him to Israel be­cause ties ruptured during the 1967 Mideast War had left Moscow without any diplomats to gather intelligence in the Jewish state. 
Now a 56-year-old busi­nessman operating from Kiev and Moscow, Linov says he tries to forget what happened in the past. "It was not my real life," said Linov, who has a wife and three daughters. 
The Linov affair is the latest in a series of espionage cases to come to light in recent months as journalists have succeeded in challenging the government's veil of secrecy. 
In November, the Supreme Court lifted a six-year embargo on the case of Roman Weisfeld, a Soviet immigrant and electri­cal engineer who spied for the KGB for eight years and is cur­rently serving a 15-year term. 
Polish-born Marcus Klingberg, 75, a former Red Army colonel, was jailed in 1983 and given an 18-year sen­tence reportedly for revealing secrets about biological warfare to the Soviets. His case was published in August when his attorney appealed for a pardon. 
Amnon Sela, an expert on Russian affairs at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said there were public demands to explain cases of people who vanished years ago without ex­planation. · 


House asks Bill Clinton to raise the Princz case 
By MARCY GORDON Appeals for the District o 
Associated Pre$& Columbia is considering whether Princz, 71, of Highland WASHINGTON Park, N.J., may pursue his $17 
The HO\Uii}, asked President million lawsuit against the Clinton on Wednesday to seek German government. · German Chall,ceJlor Kohl's help The son of a naturalized tot a,ll Amerleatr·Jew seeking American father, Princz was r~pii'A~i o(" ~he Na~is'. living with his family in l)~i biSfamny · :slovakia in 1942 when the 

>£1· ~13, .the .·.. ···.· :Gel"mans deported them to con­
. ·:P'n,.;~r.it~l~. ,centration camps. His· father, nf St,.W.>: ··mother, sister·. and two younger bring up •" bro~ers an perished. ... 

hen they, The Germans denied Princz's bel Germ:a.Il'·> 1955 request for reparations aus Kinkel because he was a U.S. citizen. onMcnldiyb'l .· gton. Rep. Lee H. Hamilton, D-Th&·resolut{f>l'l;•·•ntroduced Ind., chairman of the House b.•. Y.lt.ep.; Frll.flk···.P8J!one;;D-N.J.,
.. Foreign Affairs Committee, l\S~ed Clinton to try to help said, "It is time for the German Prine~ win paym:ent from the government to resolve this sit­
G.er.,.-tan government. The uation, to come to an agree­Sel'lat4 passQ,d s>siriillar resolu-ment with Mr. Princz on ade­tionlaSt Nofi;mber;;>tK quate compensation pay-
The U.S. Circuit Court of ments." 


----~-----------~--~­







VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 27, 1994 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 

News Editor ................ Mercdith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Stcph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................•...... Cheryl Moser Aa:c:nr Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ....•........•.•......•....... Patrick Barth Photo Editor ..•.....•....................•... Jake Peters OTS Director .......•........................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrycb Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentarics,lcrten and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Y"ICWJ>Oint space is availabk to all members of the Notre DarncJSaint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through !etten is encouraged. 
Obscm:r Pbopc Lipg 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorfYICWJ>Oint 631-4541 Day Editor/Prodl;ction 631-5303 Business Office 631-53 I 3 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systcms/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE miTOR 

Apathetic editorial insults SMC 
Dear Editor: 
Perhaps the biggest issue fac­ing the St. Mary's campus is the need to increase student involvement. 
Yes, both tickets for Student Body President and Vice President of Academic Affairs agree. Obviously this is a goal that should not be ignored in planning the future of this College. 
As an editorial board who insists that "the evolution of the College" is at stake, The Observer has thrown a blow to the future of our campus by belittling the election you nick­named "Peppercorn versus Strawberry Dannon Yogurt" (The Observer, January 25). 
In essence, The Observer edi­torial sent a message to St. Mary's students that the elec­tion for Student Body President concerns petty issues. In St. Mary's sesquicentennial year, don't bother to Jearn about the candidates and their platforms. Don't bother to have an impact on the next 150 years. Don't bother to vote. 
As Vice President of LeMans Hall, I and other leaders in this community are constantly striv­ing to provide new program­ming that will allow students to become more involved and to be proud of St. Mary's College. I am absolutely offended by your attitude which encourages an entire student body to be apa­thetic. You have insulted every­one in this community, includ­ing the candidates, who work everyday to increase the stu­dent's role in student body issues. 
The tickets of El-Ganzouri/ 
.•. 50MP. OFIAJHICH azs TOIAJH/7l­
IIJATER l HAL& CI..AIMS H8~ 
TH& W4N AT a/NTVNSURGI/116... 
Peters and Sheedy/McNulty share common concerns for the upcoming year. The Observer was disappointed that the debate wasn't an all-out brawl, but an agreement. The two tickets are aware of the issues that this College faces. 
Never mind that they each have different ideas regarding the implementation of these goals, which was reported in your front page article. The paper's editorial staff refused to bring themselves to the level of their peers who should be voting in this election. You had to be journalists, searching for 
'The paper's editorial 
staff refused to bring themselves to the level of their peers ..." 

something controversial to report. What fun is it to write news about agreement? What kind of attention grabbing lead could you make out of agree­ment? "Peppercorn versus strawberry Dannon yogurt" is much more engaging to get your readers to read on. 
Concerning increasing student involvement, both tickets have concrete ideas in mind. To name a few from each, the plat­form of El-Ganzouri and Peters proposes increasing fees, activi­ties at Dalloway's and Haggar, a Fall Festival, and activities to strengthen relations with pro­fessors. 
Sheedy and McNulty on the other hand, propose major-a­month presentations by upper­classwomen, big/little sisters, and opening new doors for social interaction through Wabash College. 
Anyone who attended the debate or knows anything about the candidates knows that in our sesquicentennial year this election means more to all of us than salad dressing and yogurt. The candidates were actually posed a question about dining hall improvements by a member of the audience. 
Each candidate answered honestly, citing specific con­cerns brought to their attention by fellow students. The fact that they listened to such details and are willing to imple­ment any improvements, regardless of how small they may seem, shows their true sin­cerity in wanting to improve this College for their peers and those women who will attend St. Mary's in the years to come. 
You say, unnamed editorial writer (Observer editorials are composed by the editorial stam. that "it is the role of student government to take a part of the long-term evolution of the College." Very true. However, it is not the role of The Observer to undermine this movement by encouraging students not to vote. 
It is my sincere hope that my fellow St. Mary's students were informed about the candidates and their different plans in implementing common goals. It would be awful to think that The Observer spoiled the salad dressing and yogurt for the upcoming year. 
DIANA lANZILLOTIA Junior LeMans Hall 

''Macho does not prove mucho." 
-Zsa Zsa Gabor 



ACCe:NT 
page 10 Thursday, January 27, 1994 


'The AII-Ame~ica"' RevLAe' 

By KEVIN SULLIVAN 
Accent writer 
Looking for some humor and excite­ment to bring yourself out of the frozen, post-break torpor of recent weeks? Have a hankering to see your fellow students get taunted? Do you feel the need to see prominent members of the Administration slammed once again? 
Then the place to be this weekend is O'Laughlin Auditorium, the sight of Keenan Hall's inimitable Keenan Revue. 
This year's version, entitled, "The All­American Revue," will attempt to con­tinue in the tradition of quality Domer entertainment and fun that has made the Keenan Revue one of the annual rites of spring. 
'Ithink people come to the 
Revue expecting a cer­tain thing. Hopefully, this year we'll be able to provide that again.' 
Paul Czoty 

Director Paul Czoty and his core staff, including producer Bong Miquiabas, technical coordinator Mike Libert and musical directors Gene Warzecha and Tim O'Neill have been working since early in the school year to ensure the success ofthis year's show. 
"We've got a lot of different people throughout the dorm involved this year," says Czoty, expressing his optimism and enthusiasm over the 1994 Revue. 
However, despite the diverse involve­ment, Czoty promises that the show will continue in the style of previous years. 
"I think people come to the Revue expecting a certain thing," said Czoty. "Hopefully, this year we'll be able to provide that again." 
Along those terms, Keenan senior Tim O'Neill will once again be displaying his talents for the Revue audience. 
As well as being one of the Revue's musical directors, O'Neill, who is gradu­ating in May, will be giving his farewell piano performance. 
O'Neill is also known on campus for his covers of Billy Joel, which he per­formed in a concert last semester. 
In last year's Revue, he turned "My Life" into an emotional plea for student freedom from the tightening bonds of the administration (read: O'Hara). 
This time, students should expect something a little differenti as O'Neill will appear with other Keenanites in a skit named, "The Fabulous O'Rico Boys." 
Music is always a big part of the Revue, and this year will be no different. 
Along with O'Neill's skit, performers will jam to such "All-American" classics as "Johnny B. Good," "Great Balls of Fire" and the people's national anthem, Neil Diamond's "America." 
Along with these numbers, the audi­ence should warm up their own vocal chords for what has also become one of the most beloved Revue traditions -the between-skit TV-theme song sing-along. 
"I would be doing a great disservice if I took that out," said Czoty. Anyone who has experienced this part of the Revue before would certainly agree. 
However bad a cultural reflection the perfectly unified singing of more than a dozen theme songs is, its power can not be denied. 
Perhaps in no other non-Football related moment is their such communal enthusiasm as when a Revue audience member hears those first magical notes over O'Laughlin's sound system, turns to his or her neighbor, and sings: "Love .. . exciting and new." 
or course, the main focus of the Keenan Revue is always comedy. Without revealing too much, Czoty said that one of the skits to watch is the omi­nously titled "Nightmare Foreign Professor." 
Also, newcomers to the Revue can expect to see themselves relentlessly satirized -all in the name of good fun, of course. 
Czoty and his staff also hope that the students who attend the Revue will not only laugh and sing, but also appreciate the long hours and hard work that have gone into the show's production. 
Since tickets are free, Keenan depends on the generosity of their fellow Domers (or perhaps their inability to evade all the strategically placed ushers) to help pay for costs. 

The Observer/ David Hungeling 

Reflecting over the past football season, this Keenan resident performs a light-hearted skit based upon senior defensive player Pete Bereich. 
Czoty commented that whether or not will once again be one the major events student donations will help the Revue of the semester. break-even is always a concern of the 
staff. The Keenan Revue will be playing this 
If, by chance, the dorm profits from Thurs.-Sat., Jan. 27-29 at 7 p.m. each the event, the proceeds will go to a night. The shows are sold out. so your scholarship fund aimed to aid future only hope is to try and scrounge a ticket Keenanites. off of your favorite Keenanite. 
Czoty and his staff are confident that they have put together a show that stu­dents will greatly appreciate, and that 


.----------------~-------~------~-~ -------·-~--------­

ACCENT
Thursday, January 27, 1994 page 11 .... 
Learning how to lose your inhibitions 
Local universities come together to heighten drug and alcohol awareness in youths 
Breaking down ethnic barriers, Djo-Gbe dancing helps make the bashful bold 
By Bill FEKRA T 
Acq;or Writer 
You don't need alcohol to have a good time. It's a plati­tude often heard, but how can it be put into action and made a reality? 
This is the goal of Andrews University's Prevention Convention. 
Andrews University, located in Berrien Springs, MI. is host­ing the First Annual Youth-to­Youth Collegiate Prevention Convention, January 28-30. 
Andrews University along with Notre Dame, Lake Michigan College, Southwestern Michigan College, Jordan College and other schools will be represented in the conven­tion to teach youth how to have fun without drugs and alcohol. 
"The goal of the convention is to show people how to not use drugs and alcohol," says Derri Hanson of Andrews University's Institute of Alcoholism and Drug Dependency. 
The program will emphasize 
By IARISSA HERCZEG 
Accent writer 
You walk into the LaFortune Ballroom and hear persistent live chanting and drums, see fes­tive, colorful curtains on the wall. You become relaxed and soothed, opening up and letting yourself feel the rhythm of the music. You're Djo­Gbe dancing. 
What is Djo-Gbe (jobay) dancing? According to Lazare Houetin, director of the presentation of the dance, Djo-Gbe dancing is a form of expres­sion deriving its heritage from Africa. 
It is meant to help people, through dancing, to 
'I t was a relaxing, fun expe­
rience even for the shyest peo­ple like myself because of the non-threatening environment.' 
Patricia Acosta 

experience "the rhythm of nature, the dance within themselves," said Houetin. 
This is what happened to Patricia Acosta when she attended the program last year, Houetin's first visit to Notre Dame. 
"It was a relaxing, fun experience," said Acosta, "even for the shyest people like myself because of the non -threatening environment." 
Acosta, a member of the Multicultural Executive Council, liked it so much that she invit­ed Houetin back this year. 
How does Houetin work this magic, seemingly casting a spell over even those who hate to dance? 
"{Houetin) is a charismatic man who is able to bring out a lot in people, making them latch on and lose themselves in the rhythm of the music," said Raymond Bugarin, another member of the Council who has worked with Houetin in the past. 
To help people "latch on," traditional costumes will be provided for all those interested in having the entire Djo-Gbe experience. 
Houetin is the former director of artistic expression for the National Office of Arts in Berlin, West Africa. 
Houetin graduated from Paris University in France, then became an actor and French 
alternative~------~~--~ 
social activities and how to plan them. 
The conven­tion features three keynote speakers who are well­known in the area of pre­vention, and whose speech­es will hopeful­ly provide motivation as well as information, said Hanson. 
D a v e Williams is a Certified Prevention Specialist from Columbus, OH., and will deliver a speech enti­tled, "Why We Do What We Do When We teacher. He has traveled extensively, and cur­rently resides in Los Angeles, where he works as a performance artist. 

The Council has invited Houetin back because they feel that when people get involved in the dance, they will begin to understand and respect the culture, according to Acosta. 
Acosta cites the goals of the Council as being a major factor in bringing Houetin to campus: "education, in an informal setting, for the com­munity of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's and South Bend." 
"If we have educated one person, we have done our job," said Acosta. The Djo-Gbe program will be held in the LaFortune Ballroom on Fri., Jan. 28, at 7 p.m. The dancing workshop will be followed by a reception. Admission is free of charge. 
Photo Courtesy/Multicultural Executive CouncU 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students prove that everyone, regardless of age, race, gender, or dancing ability can dance at last year's Djo-Gbe participation performance. The program returns to the LaFortune Ballroom this weekend. 
... 
Do What We Do!" 
Dan Clark holds the presti­gious Certified Speaking Professional designation be­stowed by the National Speakers Association, and will deliver a motivational speech entitled, "The Art of Being Alive." 
There will also be a debate on whether or not drugs should be legal­ized between Dewey Murdoch and Duane McBride, two experts in sub­stance abuse. 
The rest of the convention will focus on semi­nars and group discussions to share ideas on prevention. 
Those in attendance will be able to choose their own sched­ule of seminar topics and then meet with other attendees to discuss and reflect on the infor­mation that has been present­ed. 
Upon completing the week­end, all participants will be cer­tified as Peer Prevention Specialists. 
Registration costs for the con­vention are $20. Participants are responsible for their own housing and food. 
Notre Dame's Office of Alcohol and Drug Education will subsidize costs and possibly provide transportation for any­one interested in attending the convention. 
For questions and further in­formation, contact Mark Pogue at 631-7970 or Derri Hanson at the Andrews University Institute of Alcoholism and Drug Dependency at (616) 471­3558. 


• 



Notre Dame and St. Mary's Seniors 
ONLY 5 DAYS LEFT UNTIL ACE APPLICATIONS ARE DUE 
l~l~lllliJilllY I 

ANY QUESTIONS: CALL FR. TIM SCULLY C.S.C OR SEAN MCGRAW AT 631-7052 
-
-----~-~ -----~----~---------------------------­
.,------------------------~----------­
Thursday, January 27, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Graf reaches Aussie final; Three Atnericans in setnis 
~ 
LOST: Grey metal double cross BOSTON Bound Washington, D.C. area wish to earring between 2nd floor PW and SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ I need 4 tix. 4 CARROT TOP X1646 Need ride to Boston or nearby for adopt infant brother or sister. Close North Dining Hall on 1/14. Call in salary & benefits. Ski/Snowboard -Toby &&*&*&(*&**&*&*&**&)**&-(0) Spring Break. Will pay$ Friendly, extended family in area. Let's help Bridget at 4-2965 Wyou found it instructors, lift operators, wait staff, fun person, PLS HELP! caiiX2354 each other. Med/legal paid. Please 
chalet staff + other positions Will pay $$BIG BUCKS$$ for Garth CAN YOU FIGURE OUT THE call Jessica or Bob 
Qncludlng summet'). Over 15,000 Brooks TICkets. can Sarah at TALENT SHOW TALENT SHOW 1-600-864-8385. LOST: EYEGLASSESINTAN openings. For more information call: 1#3818. SENIOR BAR ADS???? ITS A CASE. CALL AMY X4966 (206)634-0469 ext. V5584 On Fri. March 18, Troop NO Is ~EATTHERUSH~ 
Seniors!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! PUZZLE EACH TIME...•.. sponsoring a CAMPUS WIDE TAL· VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly LOST· TIMEX WATCH WITH I need GARTH BROOKS tix!!!l Did you buy an extra ticket to ENT SHOW at Washington Hall. approaching, and if you want to INDIGLO. It has a black leather Phantom? **&*&*&000&&*&*&*&*&*&))(*&*0 HELP IS NEEDED. Anybody write a classified to that special band. I lost it on Sat. Jan. 22, either PLEASE call4-1477 Need to get rid of it? experienced in stage, lighting, direc· someone, you can type your ad at North Dining Hal, Lafortune, or Want to get rid of it$ ADOPTION: Loving, financially lion, set construction, etc. Please now. Your message will appear In on the way from NOH to Lafortune. Men and Women needed for free secure couple longs for a newborn contact Emile (x3290) or Ron (273-the special Valentine's Observer on Hyou haw any info or have found hairaJts. Gal Cosimo's 277-1875 Call Jonny "donnie" Trump to join our family. Please call Nancy 5971). Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd It, please call Rich Glatz at 4-1143. 282·2206 and leaw message. and Jerry 1-600-272-5810. More info about the show soon. floor of Lafortune. Thanks. ROOMMATE WANTED 
········***···············****** 

Handicapped 28-year-old male ATIENTION SENIORS! TALENT SHOW TALENT SHOW Lost: Set of keys on a red scuba looking for 2·3 people to share Spring Break Airline TICket for Sale: 1'1 trade you the .49ers for a pair of 111 tell you one thing -He gets bet· fin keychain. North County Scuba house 5-10 mills. from campus. WiU From South Bend to Key West, Phantom tickets! Wei, maybe not SUMMER JOBS -ALL ter looking AND more powerful written on keychain. Hfound provide FREE RENT in exchange Florida leaving Thursday, March 3 the whole team, but If you need to LAND,WATER SPORTS. PRES-ewry day!! Congratulations!! please cal Greg at 4-1620. for h•lng me one hour per day and returning on Friday, March 11. sell them for whatever reason, don't TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
and assisting in caring for house, Best offer. Call Steph at 273-6548. give them away, sel them to a ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR SARG*SARG*SARG*SARG* lawn and driveway. Begins immed. friend. LAKE PLACID CALL 1-600-786-Scavenger Hunt/ Word Scramble LOST: my two car keys. They are Prefer grad student and require per-GaiEddie"~n~·~lo 8373 Clue 1#3: Which NO grad was the
PERSONAL
bound to a medal with St son who wil be In South Bend year-282-2206 g01111mor of Arimna and a 1988 Christopher on one skle and Notre round. If Interested call Adam 289-Spring Break Bahamas Party presidential aspirant??? Dame de Paris wrttten on the other 9342. JPW Wlcnd confrmd reservation The Top 10 Quotes from Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Trtp Includes 
---()() ------­

side. @Jamison Inn aval. for trade for cavanaugh 's Production of Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free These 2 letters should bring you Hyou haw any info, please cal Huy cnfrmd hotel res. Stanford wknd, 'The Odd Couple' : Parties! Hurry! This will sel out! closer to unsaambUng the secret
FOR RENT

@ 273-5859. Thanks! Sep29-0ct1 call Paul1-600·538-1-800-678-6386 location of the $100.00 
9363-(xt)5128 10) "SINCE SEVENI!Ir MUSICLAND GIFT CERTIFICATE $$$$ REWARD $$$$ NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225. 9) "One comment guys •..in Pd I, Spring Break! Gancun & Jamaica! SARG*SARG*SARG*SARG* for the return of my long dark MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. don't trash the set• Fly out of Chicago and spend 6 
green coat (Harry Levine Petie) AVAIL NOW. 272-6306 **'***:bt***...******...*** at 8) "Is this a serious question, Kirl<?" days on the beach! We haw the 1118 GRACE -Your music sucks!II that disappeared from Club 23 YOU MAY HAVE MASTERED THE 7) "You gonna be long?" best trips & prices! Includes aJr & last Friday. Please help; I'm very MEDALLION HUNT -BUT "'Bout 121nches." hotel & parties from $399! 1-600-Help, I'm dying and I need two tick-cold. SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6 WINNING BIG AT KNOITS 6) "Mac_•.•. Mac what???" 678-6386 ets to Phantom for Feb. 31 Gal Katex-1564 BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3 CASINO NIGHT WON'T BE SUCH 5) "Sony...but the wall just fel on Irs my last dying wish. No ?'s asked! BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES AN EASY FEAT. mvhead." Spring Break! Panama City! 6 days Well, ok, so maybe I'm not dying 
WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 KNOITS CASINO NIGHT 4) "H Kip were a girl, he'd be a ooeanview room with kitchen $1191 but the tickets sold so fast I'm sick. LOST: gold chain & cross w/ G in a JAN.28 slut" Walk to best bars! Includes free dis-Please help me out! Thanxl heart at center, on path to FURNISHED 8 AND 4 BEDROOM 3) "Stop playing with yourself." Calllma "Jonnie" Sickman 
llltiiiiiiiiiAAIII"A*IIIIIII*iiiAA

AA AAIIIIII.. count card • save $50 on cover 
Debartalo between Nlewland & HOUSES 1 MILE NORTH OF NO 2) "How'd you like a lit cigar right charges! 1 -800-678-6386 282-2206 Hayes-Healy. REWARD. x1829 FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR What!!! up your ass???" 
2n3097 You didn't get those Keenan Revue Florida's New Spring Break Found: gold chain and cross out-tickets?? ...and the number one reason... hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key THANK YOU ST. JUDE side of LaFortune. cau x4833 to Roommate to share 3 bedrm home. Your friend that works the West! More upscale than Panama claim $250 mo. 5-min drive. Call232· entrances is demanding a case of 1) "And another thing ...ZAHM City/Daytona! Great beaches & **NOTICE** 
7175 good beer? SUCKS!! nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa HEAUNG VISION CANCELLED Or maybe you're just too dam lazy Beachfront Resort $1591 Key West
WANTED ................... ...............................,
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES to tra\iel over to SMC to watch a $24911-600-678-6386 
SECURITY SYSTEM bunch of sexist jokes. Top 10 reasons to go see ** -sPRING BREAK '94-ALL APPLIANCES Come see the Last cavanaugh Hal cavanaugh's production of 'The • HOWARD-DILLON ­cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS Play. Odd Couple' : SOPHOMORES !Ill • Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest 2322595 Nel Simon's "The Odd Couple" • This Saturday night from 9pm • Price Guarantee! Organize 15 8:10 Th, Fri, Sat 10) Kirk may get drunk on Sharp's Form tum-In for Sophomore Sibs * to 12am. Plenty of great frtends and your trip Is FREEl TAKE Looklng lor student tenants near Washington Hal 9) Random yeiHng of ad-fibbed Weekend is Jan. 31 in the Sorln • A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL NO-clean, furnished apls. 755 Free. 'unolllcial' lines Room from 3-6:30 p.m. • PRIZES (800)328-7283. South Bend Aw 1 bdml-240, effe-8) Colt wil probably get hurt again 
ciency-215; 607 E. Corby-2 bdrm 7) People in the front row will get Don't miss out on the opportunity to * A NIGHT OF FUN! Need revue tickets bad!! $330, 1 bdnn $260; 519 E. Corby-2 in search of black jenley-l.AZERS hit by cards, boom, chips, and pick-share Notre Dame with your sib. * 
..............................................Mfll_llll

Cal Tom x-1747 bdrm S280+heal; drMI by, call lor 133, missing sinCe Club Hockey 1e parts...and maybe even Mark. 
appointment, deposll. referencel1-game in R. Wayne. Pleaae return 6) The plclde may not die AI monies, forms. etc. should be Need ride to Am Arbor 800-5112-8320 10 Doc 1-6752, SCH rm 446. 5) Colt's funky clolhes turned In 11 that time. hi lllilweelalnd. T1lanbl! 4) Tony may be opllmlllllc or Jen 
Wllpaygas maykllhlm 
By ROB GLOSTER Associated Press 
MELBOURNE,Australia 

Steffi Graf, seeking her fourth Australian Open title in seven years. overpowered Kimiko Date 6-3, 6-3 Thursday to set up a final against Arantxa Sanchez Vicario. 
The top-seeded Graf. over­whelming Date at times with powerful forehands and serves, quickly opened a 5-1 lead and finished the first set in 31 min­utes. She broke Date's serve in the opening and closing games of the second set and completed the match in 61 minutes. 
"I think it was a match we today a tougher match than it ended up." 

The second-seeded Sanchez Vicario needed only slightly longer to finish off No. 4 Saba­tini, completing the 65-minute match by winning the last four games. Sanchez Vicario mixed hard groundstrokes with deli­cate drop shots to keep Sabatini 

call Erin X2350 I NEED ROOMMATES! Summer+ 94-95 year 
NOTICES 

CRUISE SHIPS HIRING • Earn up 150/mo fum+util pd-MUST SEE! 
to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Hickory VUiage-5 min to campus USED TEXTBOOKS Land-Tour companies. World travel. 273-8369 Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard Summer & Full-lime employment '233-2342 /10-6M-Sat 9-3 Sun available. No exp necessary. For FREE MAID SERVICE '94-95 
finals and a match against com­cans are in the men's semifi­patriot Pete Sampras, Courier nals of the Australian Open. has regained the emotional Courier was back to his old edge he appeared to be losing peevish self in a news confer­last fall. ence Wednesday after a 
Yet another American, Todd straight-set victory over Goran Martin, will face Sweden's Ste­Ivanisevic. He snapped at ques­fan Edberg in the other semifi­tions while impatiently drum­nal on Friday. It is the first time ming his fingers on a podium 
since 1982 that three Ameri-and playing with a microphone. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every bwiness day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Noue Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per duracter per day, including all spaces. 
3) You may see Quintin Taranto's SOPHOMORES!!! PE section 6B rated their best wrslon of the show JPW escape is Feb. 18-20 but tix dates. The results: GRACE 22% 2) It's free! go on sale starting Jan. 17. Sales STANFORD 22% DILLON 16% are from 3-5 on M & W and from 6­FLANNER 16% ZAHM8% ...and the number one reason.•• 8 on Tu and Th. STED'SG% MORRISSEY 6% ALUMNI3% KEENAN 3% 1) The entire set will probably fall Only $50 gets hotel, trans. and tick· 
info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B. B. & Put your dorm on top! Apply to be a down! et to Phantom or 2nd City. C5584 sand V-ball courts. 234-3831 or fonnal date for 1 of 25 DARING PE First~me first-served. Supplies 273-0482 WOMEN on 2/11. Or make it a sec-JIM HOGAN are Umited. $700/Wk. canneries; $4500/mo. tion ewnt! If you're looking for a lit­1LOST & FOUND I deckhands. Alaska summer fish· tie adwnture, send name, phone II eries now hiring. Employment & creative resume to PARTY WITH what's a chiquita? 
TICKETS

Alaska 1-206-323-2672 6B, 650 PE by 2/4. 4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in 

page 14 The Observer • PRO BASKETBALL Thursday, January 27, 1994 


O'Neal's 36 lead Magic over Hornets; Hawks beat Suns 

TTE 


T 0 
N H 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 


• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 


• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 



232-8256 
Associated Press 
Shaquille O'Neal scored 36 points on 17 -for-20 shooting and Orlando set team records with 65 percent shooting and its fifth consecutive victory, 145-120 over Charlotte on Wednesday night. 
The Magic hit 20 of 24 shots in the fourth quarter to turn a six-point lead entering the period into a 27 -point advantage. O'Neal was 7 -for-9 in the fourth quarter, with 16 points. 
O'Neal's much anticipated matchup with Alonzo Mourning never material­ized. Mourning left the game with a bruised left calf with 9:30 remaining in the first quarter after being kicked acci­dentally by Scott Skiles. 


Magic rookie Anfernee Hardaway scored a career-high 32 points, and also had nine rebounds and nine assists, while Nick Anderson had 29 points for the Magic, who were 62-for-95 for the game. Eddie Johnson scored 29 points and Hersey Hawkins 23 for the Hornets. 
Orlando hit 10 of its first 12 shots in the third quarter, outscoring the Hornets 25-8 to grab an 89-69 lead. The Hornets then used a 25-11 run to close the quarter, pulling to 100-94 entering the fourth period. 
Hawks 116, Suns 107 
as Atlanta made 81 percent of its shots in the first quarter, built an 18-point lead and then held off a late rush by Phoenix. 
The Hawks, improving their home record to 18-3, connected on 17 of 21 shots in the opening period and took a 40-31 lead as Augmon had 13 of his 23 points. 
Dominique Wilkins led the Hawks with 26 points and Mookie Blaylock had 25 points and 11 assists as Atlanta im­proved its record to 28-10, best in the Eastern Conference. 
Cedric Ceballos matched his career hjgh with 40 poin~s for the Suns, who dropped their sixth game in nine out­ings, all with Charles Barkley and Kevin Johnson out with injuries. Ceballos scored 34 in Tuesday night's loss to New York and 40 against Portland on Saturday night. 
The Hawks built their advantage to 76-58 in the third period. Phoenix closed to 108-101 with 2:50 left in the game. 
Celtics 103, Heat 98 Boston extended its season-best win­ning streak to six games, surviving a desperation comeback by Miami. The Celtics led 99-87 before baskets by Glen Rice, Rony Seikaly and Matt Geiger made it 99-93 with 24 seconds left. Geiger's dunk made it 100-95 with 14 seconds remaining. Dee Brown hit a free throw for Boston, and the Heat's last hope van­ished when Brian Shaw's 3-pointer fell short with 7.0 seconds remaining. Dino Radja led Boston with 23 points. Miami, which lost for the eighth time in 10 games, was led by Seikaly with 23 points and 15 rebounds and Geiger with 20 points. 
76ers 104, Mavericks 90 Dana Barros scored 22 points and Clarence Weatherspoon had 16 points and 10 rebounds as Philadelphia hand­ed Dallas its 15th straight loss. Weatherspoon has had double figures in points and rebounds 21 times in 40 games this season. Rookie Shawn Bradley scored 20 points and Jeff Hornacek had 16 points and nine assists for the 76ers. The loss was the 38th in 40 games for the Mavericks, whose only two victories this season came against Minnesota. Rookie Jamal Mashburn led Dallas with 20 points, while Jim Jackson had 
17. Dallas shot 37.9 percent from the field compared to 50.7 percent for Philadelphia, which led by at least five points throughout the second half. 
Timberwolves 100, Jazz. 98 Chuck Person, who missed the three previous games with a foot infection, made a 20-foot jumper with 1. 9 sec­onds, lifting Minnesota past Utah. Person, hospitalized last week with an inflamation of connective tissue in his left foot, scored 22 points as the Tim­berwolves beat the Jazz for only the fifth time in 24 games since joining the NBA in 1989. Christian Laettner also had 22 points for Minnesota, while Karl Malone had 33 points and 14 rebounds for the Jazz. The Wolves led 98-94 before John Stockton scored on a drive and then assisted on Jeff Malone's jumper to make it 98-98 with 24 seconds left. After a timeout, Minnesota's Micheal Williams dribbled down most of the clock. Person then picked off Williams' defender, Stockton, and popped to the top of the key, where Williams found him for the winning basket. 


The Observer • COLLEGE BASKETBALL page 15 
No.3 Kansas squeaks past OSU 
Associated Press 
Steve Woodberry hit a 3­pointer with 1.5 seconds left in overtime, giving No. 3 Kansas a 62-61 victory over Oklahoma State on Wednesday night. 
Fred Burley made one foul shot with 10.4 seconds left, putting Oklahoma State ahead 61-59. He missed the second free throw and Kansas' Greg Ostertag rebounded. 
Woodberry stepped up on the right side of the 3-point line and swished the game-winner. He led Kansas (18-2, 3-1 Big Eight) with 17 points. 
Ostertag had nine points, 11 rebounds and eight blocked shots. Sean Pearson scored 15 for Kansas. 
Brooks Thompson scored 23 and Randy Rutherford had 15 for Oklahoma State. 
Bryant Reeves scored 13 points and had nine rebounds for the Cowboys (13-6, 2-2). just 2-30 in Allen Field House since 1969. 
No. 9 Kentucky 79, 
South Carolina 67 Jared Prickett sparked a sec­ond-half run with a tip-in and layup off a steal and grabbed a 
Cotll8sy d Kentucky 5poi1B lnfomlatlon 

Kentucky's Jared Prickett had a career-high 17 rebounds to lead the Wildcats over South Carolina last night. 
\ 
9 

CONTESTANTS: 

HOSTED BY: 
John Mele 

Paul Noonan 
Pete O'Rourke Bill Dailey 

Mike Johnson Bill Kempf Mike Schmiedeler Frank Timons 


JANUARY 29, 1994 STEPAN CENTER 8:00P.M. 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER Tickets are on Sale for $3.00 at the LaFortune Info Desk and through Stanford Hall 
career-high 17 rebounds, lead­ing No. 9 Kentucky to a victory over South Carolina on Wednesday night. 
Jeff Brassow equaled a ca­reer-high with 25 points as Kentucky (15-3, 5-2 Southeast­ern Conference) won its 32nd straight game in Rupp Arena. 
Prickett's tip-in came after his own miss and gave Ken­tucky a 45-40 lead with 15:57 left. Thirteen seconds later. he stole the ball near midcourt and drove in for another basket. 
No. 11 Indiana 78, 
No. 17 Minnesoa 66 Damon Bailey scored 19 points and set an Indiana record for career 3-point bas­kets Wednesday night as the No. 11 Hoosiers beat No. 17 Minnesota and took over first place in the Big Ten. Bailey's four 3-pointers gave him 149 for his career, one more than the record set last year by Indiana's Calbert Cheaney. Indiana (12-3, 5-1) led by seven points at halftime, widened it to 12 on Bailey's fourth 3-pointer and held off a brief rally by the Gophers (13-5, 4-2) in the closing minutes. Two free throws by 
Townsend Orr brought Min­nesota within 69-63 with a minute to go. Indiana's Todd Leary then made the first of two foul shots before a miss ended his streak of consecutive free throws at a Big Ten-record 46. 
The former mark was 45 by Michigan State's Steve Smith in 1991. 
No. 18 Maryland 73, 
Clemson 53 Duane Simpkins matched his career high with 18 points, in­cluding eight in a pivotal sec­ond-half run, as No. 18 Mary­land moved into a tie for the Atlantic Coast Conference lead by beating Clemson Wednesday night. Maryland (12-3, 5-1) never trailed in its fourth straight·vic­tory. Keith Booth had 15 points and Johnny Rhodes 11 as the Terrapins, relying on their out­side game for a change, matched Duke for the best record in the conference. Maryland hasn't been 5-1 in the ACC since the 1979-80 sea­son, and its 12 wins matches its total for all of last season. Kyle Freeman had a career­best 16 points and Sharone Wright had 13 rebounds for the Tigers (10-8, 1-5). 
No. 19 West Virginia 87, 
Duquesne 67 Marsalis Basey scored 27 points and No. 19 West Virginia rallied Wednesday night for a win over Duquesne. The Mountaim~ers (13-2. 6-1 Atlantic 10) won their fourth straight game. They have beat­en Duquesne (9-6, 3-3) 15 straight times at home. West Virginia trailed by as many as 10 points in the first half and was behind 40-33 at the break. But the Mountaineers used an 11-0 run early in the second half to go ahead 44-42 on Mike Boyd's two free throws with 
15:43 left. 
Basey's two foul shots put West Virginia ahead for good at 47-46. 
No. 20 Alabama-Birm­
ingham 62, DePaul 59 Carter Long scored 21 points and sparked a second-half spree that sent No. 20 Al­abama-Birmingham past De­Paul Wednesday night. Long had seven points dur­ing a 16-4 run that put UAB (15-2, 3-1 Great Midwest Con­ference) ahead 55-46. His 3­point shot capped the burst with 5:15 left. Tom Kleinschmidt led De­Paul (12-4, 2-3) with 14 points, but missed a 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
N. Carolina St. 84, 
No. 21 Georgia Tech 78 Guards Lakista McCuller and Curtis Marshall scored 19 points each to lead North Car­olina State over No. 21 Georgia Tech on Wednesday night. N.C. State (6-10, 2-4 Atlantic Coast Conference) watched a 17 -point lead dwindle to three late in the game behind the powerful play of James Forrest. He scored 19 in the second half and finished with 28 points and 13 rebounds. But the Wolfpack went 17­for-23 from the free throw line to hold on for the win. 

page 16 The Observer • SUPER BOWL XXVIII Thursday, January 27, 1994 

Aiktnan has not forgotten roots 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press 
HENRYETTA. Okla. OK, so Troy Aikman was seeing stars when he said it. 
But just think: the Super Bowl in Henryetta, population 6,000, where the local high school stadium seats 2,000? 
Rick Enis is toying with the idea of printing tickets. The lo­cal newspaper is coming out with a special edition. There are ribbons along Main Street. 
The Dallas quarterback took a knee to the head from Dennis Brown in the third quarter of the Cowboys' 38-21 victory over the San Francisco 49ers in the NFC champi­onship game Sunday. As he sniffed smelling salts to regain his senses. someone asked him where he was playing his next game. 
"Henryetta," Aikman replied. 
If ever there was a doubt that Aikman still has a special affection for this small ranch­ing community, he may have answered it then. 
"Why else would he say Henryetta?" said his close friend William Skimbo, now a teacher at Henryetta High ­located on Troy Aikman Boule­vard. "That just shows that his fondest memories are from here." 
•'N'·',;?i):::j\: i;j!· 
Aikman is so popular in Henryetta that a "Home of Troy Aikman" sign was erect­ed even before he graduated college. He causes a stir every time he comes home to visit. 
So his comment Sunday has caused an uproar. 
The Henryetta Free-Lance plans a mock edition Friday that will announce a sellout crowd at Cameron Stadium, the elementary school design­ing the Super Bowl logo to drape over the stadium and the band replacing Naomi and Wynonna Judd as halftime entertainment. 
Enis, the high school princi­pal, got in on the act a little early, annoull!cing in Tuesday's paper that tickets would go on sale in the morn­ing. Big mistake. 
"I got a call from a woman this morning who wanted a ticket for a souvenir," he said. "I may just print some up and have a little fun with it." 
Rick Thompson, who works at Bob's Clothing store, was getting calls from out-of-town customers desperate for tick­ets. 
"I tell them all we got left is a pair of tickets on the rock wall in the north end zone," he joked. 
Cameron Stadium is where Aikman drew a standing room 
: 5 ·aalis n.rr .. a.n·.··.·: a·.·.. ,·.''····'.•.··.'·····
.. '.·.··,·f:''l.od....•... s·.·····.•·.·i.. ·n. ..·'. .•. .•.
:·rr.'.·.··.· 
· > · ':. ·Jttr p6rtatiof1 ~ · 
.,.••.• lnfprrp?Jtlo~al.J'riteti~g.•l/27!~4·2),tv~~QO.•prn ';.{i:,s:t.. :,·;.· '[,.!I,·... ··· ..7 N!euw~a?9 .... •··· ·:.:.i. ··•······ .. ·'····..··· Questtonsitl ..·ll Dave Ztd ..•..•.·.•,~7J .... 
3105 otKevtn Malone 
at 634;:1062
... I ··<.,;· . ...:... ..... ... . ' ... ;. '::f'J·· 
1 I 1 1 1 1 1 I I I I I I I 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
1 I I I • I 1 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I • I I I I 



JPW 1994 

Earn$$ for 
Spring Break 
FEB 14-20 
\\/AlTERS AND \vAITRESSES FOOD SERVICE \vORI<ERS 


Turner a catalyst for Dallas offense 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA The perfect running back. The perfect quarterback. 
Joined  together  by  Norv  
Turner.  
The  union  has  given  the  

Dallas Cowboys the NFL's most difficult offense to decipher. 
"Before Norv got here all we did was run around fast," wide receiver Michael Irvin said. "Now we know where we're going." 
Where the Cowboys could be going behind quarterback Troy Aikman, running back Emmitt Smith, and dangerous wide re­ceivers Irvin and Alvin Harper is to a second consecutive Su­per Bowl title. 
Aikman, when his back hasn't been hurting, his ham­string sprained, or his head knocked dizzy, has played like the Super Bowl MVP from last year's 52-17 victory over the Buffalo Bills. 
Typical, was Aikman's day against the San Francisco 49ers when he hit 14 of 18 passes for 177 yards and two touchdowns. He dominated until Dennis Brown's knee sent him away to amnesia-ville for a day. 
"I hear I had a good game," said Aikman, who could re­member only one play from the 38-21 victory, a dropped pass by Harper. 
Smith, the league's MVP and owner of three consecutive rushing titles, had 172 yards total offense against the 49ers 

in the 38-21 victory. He scored one touchdown on a run and another on an 11-yard pass when he was untouched by 49er hands. 
The 49ers tried to take away Irvin and Harper with double coverage but in doing so left Smith, tight end Jay Novacek, and Daryl Johnston alone to roam free. 
"You can take· away some­thing, but you can't take away everything," Smith said. "I just can't say enough about Turner. In his offense, he gives you a chance to succeed. Boy, we'll miss him. 
"His system is so easy to learn. And he is the major rea­son we've been so successful. It scares me to think he will be at Washington and play two games against us every year." 
Aikman is morose at the thought of Turner leaving to join the Washington Redskins or perhaps the Phoenix Cardi­nals. 
"I hope something drastic happens and he doesn't leave," Aikman said. "I can't begin to tell you what he's meant to our offense." 
The Dallas players went through the same thing at the last Super Bowl only it was de­fensive coordinator Dave Wannstedt, who had already signed a contract with the Chicago Bears. 
Turner's offense is patterned to give the Cowboys receivers a chance to catch the ball on the run and use their breakaway talents after they catch it. Many of Aikman's passes are on the way before the receiver makes his break. 
Turner also preaches pa­tience to Aikman when the wide receivers face double cov­erage and others get all the work. 
Against San Francisco, Smith never had a blocking re­sponsibility. 
Johnston said Turner will no doubt leave a legacy. 
z CLASS OF '94 
0 
SENIOR FORMAL  
J­z 1.1.1 J- is coming March 19th so mark your calendars and keep posted for further information  
~  (P.S. There will be no raffle at Senior Bar this Friday)  


Ill 







::z: 
1­
HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1994-95 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 25, 1994 
By DAVID GERMAIN Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 

For the rest of America, the Buffalo Bills have become the guest that wouldn't leave. 
The Bills are back in another Super Bowl, defying the "any­one but Buffalo" sentiment pre­vailing, well, anywhere but Buffalo. 
For the hometown fans, the Bills have once again become a steppingstone to a little honor, a little respect, a little glory. A Super Bowl win by the Bills over the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday. even after losing the last three, would go a long way to restoring some pride to this city of hard knocks. 
"The Bills are something to hang your hat on in this town." said Eli Tubbs. who is driving to Atlanta for the game. "But we'll never be called a great team unless we win it." 
Buffalo's been carting a chip on its shoulder for years over its snowy weather, its rust-belt image and its reputation as a place where losers go to bowl 
-~-· --------------~---­
Thursday, January 27, 1994 

City of Buffalo trying to shed image 
and gnaw chicken wings. 
"There's a lot of snobs in this country that need a place to dump on, and it seems as if Buffalo's always high on the list," said Bills fan Pauline Brady. "Maybe, if the Bills win, 
some of that will go away. But probably not. If Buffalo wins, the snobs will say, 'You already lost three. It's about time.' Snobs is snobs." 
The rest of the country might have a hard time under­
. standing what a Super Bowl trophy would mean to the windy, rusty city on Lake Erie. Buffalo's had a bad couple of decades. Nearly a third of the city's population fled to the suburbs or moved out of the area as fac-

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
with not being sure all of the time and not knowing everything exactly. 
Certainly, what we do with our lives is important. It can have a great impact on others. However, maybe the question which should precede "What do I want to do?" is "How do I want to be?" And, maybe our uncertainty is a step toward the truth. 
Maybe the most important thing is not always what we do with our lives, but how we do it. 
,Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. January 29 5:00p.m. Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C. 
Sun. January 3 0 10:00 a.m. Rev. Terence Linton, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING Deuteronomy 18: 15 .. 20 
2ND READING 1 Corinthians 7: 32--35 
GosPEL Mark 1: 21--28 
A SPECIAL CELEBRATION OF THE PRESENTATION OF THE LoRD 
Eucharist and the Blessing of Candles Wednesday, February 2 at 5 p.m. in the Basilica All are welcome. 
tories closed and Buffalo's blue­collar job base began to vanish. 
Being near the Canadian border. Buffalo has become a popular drug-trafficking spot, and the accompanying violence has left the city with a murder rate rivaling Detroit's. 
Then there's the weather. The fabled blizzard that blew in 30 feet of snow off the Great Lakes in 1977 has left Buffalo the butt of jokers ever since. 
Sports-wise, the last 20 years were unkind to Buffalo until the Bills' ascendance in the late 1980s. 
The city's NBA team left town, and the Buffalo Sabres lost their. only shot at the Stanley Cup in 1975 and have made quick exits from the playoffs in recent years. Buffalo also lost its bid for a major-league base­ball team. 
The Olympic-style World University Games made their 
U.S. debut in Buffalo last sum­mer, but they drew more at­tention for defections by Cuban athletes and the exclusion of the Libyan team than they did for their sports merit. 
I'M NOT SO SURE ANYMORE 

"I am not sure." 
There is only one other phrase which I have spoken more often than "I'm not sure," and that is "I don't know." 
When I was younger I thought that as I would become older, well educated and experienced, I would would need to use these phrases less often. As I have grown older, formerly educated, and experienced, I have said "I'm not sure" and "I don't know" more often, not less. 
A few days ago, a senior at Notre Dame told me that when she was a fresh, man she was pretty sure that she wanted to be an attorney. She studied like crazy. She began to pick-out law schools. As time marched on and she became more educated and experienced, she became less certain. For various reasons, some of which remain a mystery even to her, she is not sure that she wants to be an attorney. When I asked her about what she is thinking about doing after graduation this coming May, she told me, "I don't know." This is difficult not only because she feels the need to be certain, but because she feels like she owes it to others, especially to her parents, to be certain, and to certainly be a success. 
Although the story of Jesus tells us that what we do is important, it also tells us that how we do what we do is often of greater importance. Jesus was some­what of a wandering preacher and teacher who told people who seemed sure of what God wanted them to do and sure of an exact way to be saved that they better think again. Jesus welcomed all people, especially those most bru­tally excluded, with love. I imagine that it was not just what Jesus did that revealed him as God, but how he did it. Christianity is first and foremost a way of living in the world. 
We are well into the second semester. At times it may seem like the pressure is on. There is that popular question, "What are you going to do?" Anxiety seems to go hand-in-hand with uncertainty. In many ways, society expects us to grow in certainty, not uncertainty. 
Perhaps many of us, especially seniors in their final semester, are realizing that when it comes to discerning a career, one hundred percent certainty is at least unlikely and probably impossible. 
Maybe one of the most important aspects of education is the dispelling of the ways we oversimplify ourselves and others. There is something about dying and rising in all of this, a dying and rising which takes place during this life. Hopefully, we die to old ways of seeing ourselves that were narrow and exact in order to continually rise to new ways of seeing ourselves and others that allow us the freedom to change and appreciate the ability of others to change. Perhaps this dying and rising calls us to be a little more comfortable 
-----~ --------------------~~--~------~-------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 1994 


Big East n1ay be in for changes 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The Big East, the made-for­TV basketball conference, ap­pears forced by its football schools to undergo major changes. 
The four members of the 10­team basketball conference who play Division 1-A football seem to be forcing an end of the league as it now exists. 
Among the possibilities: Syracuse, Miami, Boston Col­lege and Pittsburgh split from the Big East and form a new conference with Temple, West Virginia, Virginia Tech and Rutgers -the "outsiders" who play in the Big East only for football. 
Or the Big East could expand to 14 teams by adding the four football-only schools. 
The goal in both cases is to have an all-sports conference. 
The only thing that appears certain is that the current structure of the league won't be around much longer. 
"In my opinion, I just don't believe status quo is an option," Big East commissioner Mike Tranghese said Wednesday. "Status quo causes a major problem for our football people. All 10 of our schools have come to realize that status quo is probably, at best, a longshot." 
The league will hold its win­ter meetings next Monday through Wednesday at West Palm Beach, Fla. 
It's doubtful any decisions would be announced from there since all changes would have to be approved by school presi­dents. 
In 1991, the Big East Foot­ball Conference was formed by bringing in Rutgers, Temple and West Virginia of the At­lantic 10 and Virginia Tech of the Metro Conference. From the start, there was talk of those schools joining the conference for all sports but it was always down played. 
The league was founded 15 years ago with basketball in mind and the football success suddenly started a shift in fo­cus. The six non-football mem­bers -Georgetown, Connecti­cut, Providence, St. John's, Se­ton Hall and Villanova -didn't want expansion because of problems involving scheduling, travel and power ratings. 

After all, this is still the most televised basketball conference and it was the league that had two national champions and eight Final Four teams in the 1980s, including three-fourths of the field in 1985 when Vil­lanova beat Georgetown. 
Also, expanding to 14 teams would mean splitting postsea­son tournament money more ways. 
Syracuse athletic director Jake Crouthamel said he feels · the football and non-football schools can continue to co-ex­ist, but some changes will be needed. 
"You see what other confer­ences are doing around the country and expansion is the word," he said Wednesday. 

Bradshaw to join Madden at Fox 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Terry Bradshaw is on the verge of following John Madden to the Fox Network, which will begin televising NFL games next season. 
"It's not finalized, but it will be soon," Bradshaw said Wednesday. Fox had a news conference scheduled for Thursday. 
Bradshaw, an analyst with CBS since 1984, was being con­sidered for a studio role with Fox's planned one-hour pregame show. 
"At this time, I have not signed anything," Bradshaw said during a news conference to discuss a Super Bowl-related cable TV project. "I hope to get something done. I need a job, man." 
Fox stunned the television world when it bid $1.58 billion for the NFC package, knocking CBS out of the football picture. Madden, CBS' top analyst for 13 years, bolted to Fox for a re­ported four-year, $32 million deal. 
Madden's play-by-play part­ner, Pat Summerall, also has signed with Fox but the deal has not yet been officially an­nounced. Now it appears Brad­shaw will join them at Fox. 
"My agent is on the way to 
Atlanta right now," he said. 
Bradshaw went to the hospi­
tal Tuesday night with a sinus 
infection, but he was in a jovial 
mood as he discussed his fami­
ly's financial future. 
"We're kind of short right 
now," he quipped. "The kids 
are learning how to dance and 
I've gotten one of those or­
gans." 
Bradshaw was in Atlanta to discuss "Coca-Cola BIG TV," a syndicated cable program that will air for seven hours in prime time, beginning Thurs­. day and concluding with Sun­
day's Super Bowl. 
It will include a sports round­
table, comedy segments, game 
shows and a "backstage" look 
at the game between the Dallas 
Cowboys and the Buffalo Bills. 
Joining Bradshaw on the BIG 
TV project are several soon-to­
be former colleagues from CBS: 
Lesley Visser, Jim Gray and Pat 
O'Brien. 
Visser, whose contract expires 

• 
... 


Sept. 1, made it clear that she would welcome the chance to join Bradshaw at Fox or move to one of the other networks ­ABC, NBC, ESPN or TNT-that will be televising NFL games 
next season. 
''I've covered the NFL for 15 years and I want to continue to cover the NFL," she said. ''I've heard from some people." 
_;i!Agents admit they 
t~-questidhed~JS~rrigan ~ 
ByJULIA PRODIS .. vestigation, however, Triano ·said. ~uthorities questioned
,_;_,;,;_,;,;_,;,..:.;;:...-__,;__,;__,;::.:.;;__,;;::;;=:'';'·,''w.hether Kerrigan could have had a part in her own injury, ... ..... s~IIle ..way;a student):night KAirriir~ri call in aschool bomb. threat ... avoid · g a test. 



What are you doing for Spring Break ? 
Appalachia Seminar 
March 6-12, 1994 
• 
Work, play, and learn with other volunteers at one of our sites in Kentucky, West Virgina, Tennessee, and Mississppi. 

• 
Receive 1-credit in Theology . 


• 
Pick up Applications at the Center for Social Concerns . 


APPLICATIONS DUE: Friday, January 28, 1994 

SPELUNKER 111!00 1\M, TilE: FIRST DAY 1111:00 AM, EVE.R'/DA'/ FOR THE. RE.Sf 
~~~~~~==~~~~~ 
Dr. -:JotiNSON, CoULD You PLeASE LE:T ME INT'O YovR CLASS? "I KNOW IT'S FULL, BUT x-rrs VERY IMFbRTANT roR rti'{ DE6R£E-­
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Test.. 
1. When did \.he Pilgrims land a\. Pl~moulli Roc.k? 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

oNG \N'? 
. m"\ GRATE.f'I..H... 

\"D/-r:" 
38 ---Juana 39 Urban noise 1 Name from maker50's TV 41 Take this out for 9 Baseball's a spin Doubleday 42 University14 Romberg founded in 1253product 44 Locust15 Filmdom's 46 ExhortationLawrence 48 Pitcher Ryan 16lnfant's game 49"--ofyou ..." 171nfant's shoe 52 Ear-related18 Showed fear 54 "The --From19 Stupidity Brazil" 

20 Sting 55 Defective stop 24Mal de-­
sign? 26 Words of 
58 "1--You enlightenment 
Babe" 

27 Mars sighting &o Yogi's cartoon 29 Bestow sidekick 32 Blow the cover 61 Blubbered 
of? &6 Like spring 34 Puts back flowers 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Thursday, January 27, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

"Oh, and that makes me feel even worse! ... I laughed at Dinkins when he said his new lenses were indestructible." 

TAKE THE KEYS. 
CAll ACAB. TAKE ASTANO. 

fRifNDS OON'T lH fRifNDS ORIVf ORUNK 

DINING HALL 
No, VuT IN m"\ 
(;J£.LL T WANf'IA

[JJ!IAT 'IZE ~ou 
L I':>T \O.N To "RE <oGAE.
KEo<.:>AE. TAPE 
67 Battery type 
68 Physicist Freeman 
69 Innkeeper 


DOWN 
1 Person with a collar? 
2 One rung on the evolutionary ladder 
3 Spike, for one 4 Biblical vessel 5 Coach Bryant &Up 7 High 8 Vietnamese 
money unit 9 Accelerator 
item 10 Sticks 11 Dostoyevsky's 
"--From the Underground" 12 Beethoven dedicatee 

YoU ~OIN' NAI-f. I'LL c; E:T lo CL 1\$5? THE: NOTE;'=> YA L 
AS iou C<1N S£1:., I'VE:. 
~8-\oRiZ.E.ci t\-li':> UtKRLi USELESS fqct LoNe, t:Noi.IG\-1 ~ I"<ISS ~ tE.'.it-Q\lE.5tiON. 
I NoW iNtENd to foRGt.t .It foRf'JER. 'lou''I'E tqUG\\-\­M,€ NoH\ i NG E: XCE.Pt HOW to C'lt-liC<~LL'{ l"'<~NiPUL<ItE. 

JAY HOSLER 
OF ll-tE S£1'1ESTER 
BILL WAITERSON 


L~:.Tf; Sot-vEl;;,., WITH lii'E IRoEt> Ar·n> (Rue. (YkT'HOt>' 

50 Definitely not a 61 Phooey's brain surgeon cousin 51 Chemical 62 Novelist compounds Ri:ilvaag 53 Kind of tour 63 Medium for 56 Continue Matisse 57 South Africa's 64 Ending with --Paul acetyl or butyl 59 "--does it!" 65 --Spiegel 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
15---Wan Kenobi 19 Star in Cygnus 20 Rabbits' tails 21 "Pagliacci" husband 22 Menachem's peace partner 
25 Agony 281tem of love? 
Revelation 31 Poison 
33 Pioneering 
video game 35 Writer Calvi no 36 TV show since 
1/14/52 37 Wings have them 40 Wambaugh's 
"The--Field" 43 Bogey 45 Male swan 47 1980 Richard 
Gere portrayal 49 Hooked in a way 




UktiCO 

Thursday, January 27 at 8pm & 1 0:30pm Montgomery Theatre Admission $ 1 
ACOUSTICCAFE Lafortune Student Center 9pm......admission is 

STIJDENT UNION BOARD 
.. 

SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, January 27, 1994 
Notre Dame takes No.2 Duke to the brink, 74-72 

Saint Mary's takes on crosstown rival Bethel 
By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI Sports Writer 
With three straight wins un­der their belt, the Belles are ready to take on cross-town rival Bethel College tonight at 7 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
The team is prepared to de­fend last year's double over­t1me victory by utilizing a new zone defense which has helped them dominate their recent opponents. 
"We've continued working mainly on the zone," said se­nior forward Anne Mulcahy. "It has really helped us in the last three games." 
Although the Belles had a rough start to their season, their record has improved to 4-7 since Christmas Break. 
"We were off to a horrible start," explained Coach Marvin Wood. 
"But we have worked hard and the girls have really come together." 
Sophomore forward Lori Gaddis agrees that the hard work has paid off. 
"We're a lot closer than we used to be," said Gaddis. 

"We play better now because we know where one-. another will be throughout the 
game." 
A key to tonight's game may be how the Belles cope with the loss of a key player, Sarah Kopperud, who will be sitting out the Bethel game due to sickness. 
"We'll have to make ar­rangements to cover the loss of the starting guard," said Wood. 
"It won't be difficult, but we will not have the depth we would like." 
After the break, the Belles lost another starting guard, Liz Vernasco, who gave up Basketball to concentrate on her studies this semester. However, the team quickly adjusted to the loss and is con­tinuing to develop their skills. 
"We're working on the ba­sics," said Wood. ~we're try­ing to improve our timing and positioning." 
Wood noted that the team's fundamentals are improving and that could spell trouble for the upcoming opponents on the Belles' schedule. 
Although the team~s spirit did not reach its usual level of intesity in the Bell'es' 75-63 win over Olivet College on Monday night, their steadily improving skills were appar­ent in their execution. 
"We were a little sloppy the first half," said Gaddis. "We didn't pass well. We've been working on moving the ball around and finding the open man instead of forcing it." 
Despite the last game's lack of intensity, the Belle's are fired up and hungry for more wins. 
"We have had three wins in 
a row, and that becomes very 
contagious," Wood explained. 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
Sometime soon they will recognize the magnitude of the accomplishment. 
Not yet. Now it just hurts. 
Notre Dame's 74-72 loss to No. 2 Duke Wednesday came within seconds of becoming one of the biggest upsets in college basketball this season. Maybe one of the biggest upsets ever. 
But small and sweaty Cameron Indoor Stadium has a way of blessing its Blue Devils. 
Duke has now won 87 straight non­conference home games since 1983. Few have been as tenuous as No. 87. 
With the scored tied at 72 and less than 20 seconds remaining Notre Dame was in a position to play for the final shot. 
But Ryan Hoover couldn't handle a pass from Lamarr Justice and the ball bounced out of bounds with :10 remain­ing. 
Cameron -cadabra. 
Duke's Grant Hill then took the ball down the right side and missed an 18­footer, but Marty Clark somehow found a path to the basket and tipped in the game-winner with :03 remaining. 
"If (Hill) did miss, the only place it was going to be was on the help side," Clark said. "So I just decided to crash the boards from the wing and get to a spot where I thought it might come. It came right to me." 
Notre Dame got those kinds of breaks for the first 39 minutes and 50 seconds. 

"With the effort our players gave, it's unfortunate that we couldn't get a break at the end and come away with a 'W, '" Irish coach John MacLeod said. 
They did come away with something substantial if not tangible. 
Standing toe to toe with mighty Duke and its frenetic fans, the Irish didn't flinch. Two weeks of troubled times were forgotten. 
"Coming after some of the losses they have had, I admire what they did," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "We feel we beat an outstanding basketball team tonight." 
At least a team with outstanding heart, a team with the courage to shun fear in the one of college basketball's darkest dungeons. 
It was Duke doing the quivering Wednesday. 
When Monty Williams buried an off­balance jump shot for two of his game­high 34 points with six minutes remain­ing in the first half, Notre Dame's lead was11. 
The inevitable Blue Devil spurt cut the lead to five at halftime. 
Then Williams and Hill, the two All­America candidates, proved why they are considered to be among the nation's best. 
Williams scored 20 points in the sec­ond half to keep Notre Dame close when Duke threatened to pull away. 
see NEAR-UPSET I page 13 

Irish host Xavier in battle for first 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Coming off a 65-62 defeat at the hands of the Butler Bulldogs last Saturday, the Notre Dame women's basketball team is hoping to fall back into its recent winning trend tonight against league rival Xavier at home in the Joyce ACC. 
The Lady Musketeers are currently tied for first place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference with the Bulldogs, holding a 3-1 league record and 12-5 record overall. 
According Irish head coach Muffet McGraw, the Lady Musketeers are a good passing team with a great inside game and a consistently potent perimeter shooting attack. 
"They're an excellent team and they pass the ball very well," McGraw said. 
Xavier boasts four starters averaging double digits in scoring. Carol Madsen, who is also known to be a very good passer, leads the squad with an average of 17.3 points per game. 
Freshman Jenny Raub follows Madsen with 
12.1 points while Linn Bihn is averaging 11.7 points apd 8.5 rebounds per game. Amy Siefring, who specializes in the three-point shot, is averaging 10.1 per game. Half of her field goals 'have come from outside the three point line. 
The Irish knocked off the Lady Musketeers last season at Xavier, 64:56. Forward Letitia Bowen carried Notre Dame with 18 points and 14 rebounds in 39 minutes. Bihn and Madsen paced the Lady Musketeers with 18 and 17 points, respectively. 
If the 11-5 Irish hope to have the same success against Xavier this season, they must concen­trate right from tip-off and try to avoid the foul trouble which has plagued them all season. 
In Saturday's loss to the Bulldogs, the Irish were faced with an early 16-4 deficit to open the first half and they accumulated a season-high 31 fouls throughout the game. The loss dropped the squad to 2-1 in the MCC. 
"We're playing well right now," said McGraw, "and we need to keep our intensity up on defense." 
Inside SPORTS 
"We should win," said senior forward Tootie Jones. "We need to handle their pressure and not turn over the ball." 

The Observert!<yle Kusek Freshman Beth Morgan and the Irish take on Xavier tonight at the J.A.C.C. 
Buffalo's Image 

Offensive Cowboys 
Kansas Escapes 
In addition to the Bills' 


Offensive coordinator 
Coach Roy Williams and 
woes, the city of Buffalo 

Norv Turner is a key 
No. 3 Kansas post a 62­

• 
is also trying to shed a 
member of the prolific 
61 win over Oklahoma 
deteriorating image. 

Dallas offense. 
State. 
see page 17 
see page 16 
see page 15 








