~------------~-----~ 

• Y'S 
I I) I I I C. I 
Tuesday, December 6, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 63 ~ NOTRE DAME·IN !i 
TliE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAtv1E AND SAINT MARY'S 
Resident Assistant 
Kedem on 'Schindler's List' 
Concentration 
selection underway 
By ETHAN HAYWARD be in good standing with the 
News Writer University, meaning they 
should be free of disciplinary 
camp surv1vor 
speaks of 
As the end of the semester problems with the administra­
. 

approaches, many students are tion.
experience 
planning their living arrange­Prospective RAs must also ByTOMMORAN 
ments for next year. Among the complete an application form, 
planners are those applying for submit three letters of recom­
positions as resident assistants mendation, and be interviewed 
Knowing that he was sup­
News Writer 
in the University residence by the hall rectors before they posed to be dead has given 
halls. are appointed. Zev Kedem a new appreciation 
Application forms became The application form for life. according to the sur-. 
available last Thursday to requests a candidate's educa­vivor of WWII concentration prospective seniors and gradu­tional and employment back­camps and former member of ate or professional students. ground as well as his or her ac­"Schindler's List," the group of Bill Kirk, the Assistant Vice tivities and the residence hall 
Jews rescued from the camps President for Residence Life, in which he or she wishes to 
by German industrialist Oskar emphasizes the qualities one serve. Schindler. Kedem gave a lec­needs to possess in order to It also requires the applicant ture about his experiences last serve as a resident assistant, to submit a statement of philos­
night at Washington HalL including leadership within ophy, which provides screeners 
Born in 1934 near Krakow, one's residence hall, personal with his or her ideals for resi­Poland, Kedem was forced to responsibility, deep religious dence hall living, how he or she move in with his grandparents convictions, and a clear sense perceives the role of a resident 
in that city when the Nazis in­of what to do in given situa­assistant, and his or her rea­
vaded the country in 1939. tions. sons and qualifications in The Nazis were allowed to Kirk referred to resident as­applying for the position. treat the Polish Jews as poorly sistants as "one of the most im­Recommendation letters are as they wanted: "Everything portant positions in campus prepared preferably by 
was justifiable for the war attic to avoid the Nazis, and help. life. What they [RAs) do is University faculty or staff mem­effort," Kedem said. Kedem's pleading to his The times that Kedem spent tremendously important to the bers and a former employer of 
The only Jews 'that were al­grandparents prevented them in this and other labor camps student body in its relations the candidate. lowed to stay in Krakow were from swallowing the poison as a boy were what have given within itself and its develop­Those recommending the those that held a work permit, that would keep them from him his appreciation of life. ment as a community." students are asked to comment which basically gave its hold­Nazi capture. He realized that "It was very Bret Dooley, an RA in Grace on the applicant's personal ers the "right to Jive." Those Kedem's father, who now obvious that I wasn't supposed Hall, calls the position traits and work ethics as well without permits were put on resided in the nearby work to be alive during that period." "rewarding" despite the time as to relate any significant trains and, according to the camp (the setting of much of Kedem was alive at a time commitments and personal experiences they may have had Nazi regime, "deported." But, "Schindler's List"), knew that when all the Jewish children sacrifices the job entails. "It with the candidate. as Kedem said and we all now the camp was the only place in under 13 in Poland were sup­takes a person who is willing to The deadline for the applica­know, deportation "was a fan­which Zev could avoid "depor­posed to be dead. But some­make those concessions to tions and recommendations is tasy." The nonessential work­tation." He had Zev smuggled how, this tiny boy managed to serve as an RA," he said. January 20, after which they ers were in fact shipped to the into the camp in a truck laden convince his captors that he Dooley regrets some the re­are screened by Student Affairs "factory of death" at with valuables looted from the was older, or at least that, as strictions the position sets on senior staff members for the Auschwitz. homes of Krakow Jews. Kedem said, "Yes, I'm small, his time, but over all enjoys the applicants' gpa's and any nega­
Included among the Jews The valuables were bound but I eat less, so I'm more effi­job, which enables him to get tive recommendations. earmarked for "deportation" for Arnold Goetz, the comman­cient for the war effort." better acquainted with Grace The Office of Student Affairs were those under 13 years old. dant, who kept most of them During this period, for students and staff and to better then notifies the hall rectors Kedem was only 9. At the for himself and gave a token Kedem "Each day staying alive serve the Notre Dame commu­which candidates have been time of the last deportation, he percentage to the war effort. was wonderful encouragement nity. approved for further consid­and his family were forced to Kedem managed to escape the for the rest of my life." Even Potential RA candidates are eration. These applicants are hide in their "pigeon coop" storage bins with his father's required to have a minimum 
see SCHINDLER I page 4 

grade point average of 3.0 and see SELECTION I page 4 
• CAMPUS liFE CtH!NC!t 

Study space to increase for exams 



By EDWARD IMBUS hours, and advertising 
News Writer announcing the final plans. The expenses are expected to 
Students will have more be significant, he said. places to study for final exams, Part of the Security Building thanks to the efforts of a CLC may also be opened to stu­subcommittee. dents, according to subcommit­
The announcement that tee chairwoman Kate McShane, twenty to 22 rooms in who plans to meet with O'Shaugnessy Hall, 8 rooms in Assistant Vice President the Hayes-Healy Building, the William Kirk tomorrow to dis­first floor of La Fortune, North cuss the idea. At the last CLC Dining Hall, and the Hesburgh meeting, according to minutes, Library will be opened for ex­Kirk was amenable to the con­tended hours directly before cept. and during finals, once the sub­While emphasizing that only committee finalizes the ar­the availability of rangements with the various O'Shaugnessey and Hayes­administrative departments, Healey are confirmed, Miss was made last night during the McShane was confident that bi-weekly meeting of the the other sites would also be Campus Life Council. made available to students. 
The new study areas are Other places considered by planned to be open until 3 a.m., the subcommittee to have open except for the library, which were South Dining Hall and will be open continuously. Debartolo Hall, but they were 
Student Body President Dave set aside. South Dining Hall, Hungeling announced that McShane said, had poor light­Student Government will spon­ing for late night studying, and sor all expenses stemming from the cost of reserving Debartolo 
The Observer/ Nicky Batill 

the extra study space, such as was thought to be excessive. 
the cost of monitors as required Requesting that Rockne by the University, the expense Memorial Gym stay open was 
Slice of pie 
Notre Dame junior Sean Moran takes a large bite of his pizza in the 
of keeping the library open 24 not consider.ed as an option.
Huddle at LaFortune Student Center. 

North Dining Hall, & La Fortune's First Floor, will be open until 3 a.m.; Library will be 
open 24 hours 
Also during the CLC meeting, North Quad Student Senator Sean Sullivan introduced a pro­posal to mitigate disciplinary actions for parietals violations by revoking a student's privi­
see COUNCIL I page 4 


-
Tuesday, December 6, l994

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
When bun-runs 
just don't cut it 
anymore 
"Knock knock." 
"Who cares?" 

With finals soon approaching, it seems that the last thing some people want to do is smile. Grumpiness is the prevailing attitude, and 


nerves are like rubber  
bands that need just one  Mike Norbut  
more tweak before snap- Associate SportS Ediror  
ping.  
Comedy is about as far  
away from some peo­ 

ple's minds as South Bend is from Fargo, North Dakota. What this campus needs is a good study break. 
Not just a study break. We're talking one of epic proportions. Thousands of people packed into the JACC just jamming to some tunes and loving life. Just a lot of good friends, good music, good beverages ... 
Maybe a laugh here or there would be nice too. 
We're not talking just a chuckle, either. We need a laugh longer than the Golden Gate Bridge, heartier than Chunky Soup, and more genuine than a fine Pilsner beer. 
What really stinks, though, is that some guy named MacLeod has the JACC reserved for the next four months. What a bummer. 
So where to next? How about the LaFortune Ballroom? 
OK, I know it's a little bit smaller than the JACC, but it'll suffice. The closer people are together the better. We all use Dial. Or at least we wish we did. 
Oh, wait. tonight would be the perfect night to go, too. Irish Accent is performing. 
What's Irish Accent, you say? It's a comedy improv troupe that consists of eleven Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Ten of them are funny. One's just stupid. 
But that's OK, because even stupid people can be funny without knowing it sometimes. 
The members (or at least a few) are just normal, mild-mannered students during the day. But when the lights go out, they can whoop it up like the best of 'em. One of them can even dance. 
So what's improvisation? It's like when you don't really have any idea what you're sup­posed to say, so you make it up. So much the better if you have no clue what you're talking about. 
But there's more than just improv. The group writes its own skits that basically rip on some element of Notre Dame society. Nobody's safe, including the administration or security guards. But no one's been arrested yet, which is good, I guess. 
"Irish Accent is a group of normal students with abbey normal brains, at least when they get up on stage," President Kevin Schmitt said. 
What might be most appealing about the group is that the members are your friends and classmates. True, you might not care to claim to know them when you see them acting completely psycho at the dining hall or at a bar, but you still might chuckle. 
And hey, if you come to the Irish Accent show, tonight at 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom, you'll downright hee-haw. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Dave Ring Production Jamie Heisler Whitney Sheers Jackie Moser Sports Thomas Schlidt Graphics Tom Roland Lab Tech Eric Rucrhling 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpr during ex.am and vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Prcs.s. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
• WORLD AT AGLANCE 
BOX OFFICE

Santa Claus writes his autobiography 
Top_week_!:ll_d • _

Santa Claus, aka St. Nicholas, Pere The first Christmas present he gave Noel, Father Christmas, Bafana as he was money enough for dowry for three 
mov1es

is known in Italy, has written his auto­unmarried daughters of an impover­biography at long last, aided and abet­ished man in Patara. Weekend of December 2-4,1994 ted by a Texas journalist. At first mistaken for a thief, he left All dollar figures in millions 
Jeff Guinn of the Fort Worth Star­12 silver coins in their stockings, which Gross to date. weeks in Weekend 
release. number of screens gross

Telegram, editor of "The enabled them to marry and live happy 
1 
The Santa Clause $11.4

Autobiography of Santa Claus: It's lives. 
$84.6, four weeks, 2,333 screens 
2 ~--­

Better to Give," set up an interview As time went on, he realized that his --~ -­
with the jolly old man for The philanthropy would require help. His Star Trek Generations $5.8 Associated Press. first recruit was a man named Felix. 
$57.6, three weeks, 2,681 screens Santa speaks: "Felix guesses that his ancestors Junior $5.2 "I was born in the year 280 in a might have been Jewish and might 3 $20.3, two weeks, 1,749 screens 
------· ----­

country called Lycia, which has have been brought to Rome after the 
lnteiView With The Vampire $5.1

become part of Turkey. So I imagine sacking of the temple in Jerusalem in 4 
$91, four weeks, 2,086 screens

that makes me 1,714 years old this the year 87." -----------­Christmas. But I still feel fine, very Not long after, Santa met and mar­ALow Down Dirty Shame $4.8
5 
$17.9, two weeks, 1,379 screens

spry. I stopped aging apparently when ried Layla, who has been instrumental I was 63 years old." in his life and his philanthropy. The Lion King $3.1 "One of the most important things It was she, for instance, who recom­6 $286, three weeks in reissue. 1,558 screens for people to realize is the difference mended that they stop doling out food 
Trapped In Paradise $2.7 

between magic and illusion. Illusion is and clothing and begin delivering 7 $2.7, one week, 1,286 screens something that can finally be toys. 
8 
The Professional $2.31

explained. And in the book I try to Santa now operates a global enter­
$15, three weeks, 1,220 screens

explain some of the illusion of my leg­prise. end, going down chimneys, etc. Magic "We hope that children will learn Stargate $2.26
9 
$63.3, six weeks, 1,904 screens

is something that simply is. I've never from this book that gender and ethnici­understood why I stopped aging. ty don't have a thing to do with what ,10 Miracle on 34th Street $2 Maybe if I live another few hundred people can accomplish," Santa says. · $10.7, three weeks, 1,219 screens years, I might." 
Source: ExhiMor Relations Co., Inc. AP 
Plane trips cause Quayle's ailment 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Dan Quayle was ordered to stay in the hospital an extra day Monday because his body was resisting medi­cine to prevent new blood clots in his lungs. The former vice president was given blood thinpers, but a test found that his liver produced enough coagu­lants to counteract the medication, said Dr. Homer Twigg. Twigg, a lung spe­


cialist, said the dosage was increased, and Quayle could be released from the hospital on Tuesday. The 47-year­old Quayle was hospitalized a week ago with clots in both lungs. Quayle is able to walk but suffers from shortness of breath, said Dr. Deborah Allen, his family's personal physician. They believe the clots formed during long periods of inactivity aboard planes. Twigg said the ill­ness should not affect Quayle's ability to campaign should he seek the Republican presidential nomination. Quayle was expected to announce within a few weeks whether he will run. 
Court pulls plug on Christmas lights 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
The state Supreme Court today ordered Jennings Osborne to dim his multi-million-light annual Christmas display. The court told the Osbornes to cut the size and extravagance of the display to a level that won't attract the crowds previously drawn to the neighborhood. "It's a pretty much a complete victory for our position," said Gary Corum, lawyer for the neighbors who took Osborne to court after he responded to their pleas for moderation by doubling the size of last year's display -to more than 3 million lights. The lights for this year's display are going up now, but Osborne hasn't announced when he'll flip the switch. He began decorating his estate in an affiuent neighborhood in the late 1980s and the display has grown each year. While neighbors complained about the traffic jams and crowds, Osborne said any restrictions would infringe on his right to free speech and religious expression. "The fight over this Christmas dis­play is far from over," said lawyer, Sam Perroni. 
Child shot in front of Christmas tree 
JACKSON, Miss. 

A toddler enthralled by Christmas tree lights tripped an anti-crime motion detector in his living room and was shot to death by his stepmother, who told police she mis­took the 3-year-old for a burglar.Jonathan Hicks' death was ruled an accident. No immediate charges were brought against the stepmother, whom police refused to identify. Police said they were still investigating. On Saturday night, the woman grabbed a .38-caliber semi­automatic handgun and fired when she saw movement. Jonathan was shot in the head as he stood inches from the Christmas tree. "He loved Christmas lights. He would jump up and down. He just liked looking at it," said his grandmother, Georgia Hicks. The shooting took place in drug-infested west Jackson, where anti-crime devices such as motion detectors and burglar bars are common in many homes. The largest city in Mississippi, Jackson had the 12th-highest homicide rate among U.S. cities last year, according to the FBI. The city of nearly 200,000 people has surpassed its 1993 record of 87 slay­ings with 89 so far this year. 
Robber says desperation drove him 
LEPANTO, Ark. 

Larry Archer's story reads like a country song: a down-on-his-luck man who says he was so desperate to feed his family and pay doctors to treat his new wife's cancer that he robbed a bank. He has been in the county jail since the holdup two days before Thanksgiving, fac­ing bank robbery charges that could bring five to 20 years in prison. Federal charges could come next. Police and ·prosecutors don't know-or care, really-whether Archer's tale is true. "lie said he needed the money for his wife's surgery. But a crime is a crime, regardless of circumstances. It's out of my hands," said Jonesboro Detective Rick Elliott. Police say he passed a note to a teller at a branch of MidSouth Bank. It read: "This is a robbery. I want $10,000." Though carrying no weapon, he threatened to blow up the building, police say. The teller gave him all the money in her cash drawer, $4,150. Archer was captured in less than half an hour after crashing his wife's car in a chase. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Tuesday, Dec. 6 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Dec. 6.
Accu-Weather"'forccast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
ILL 
• 


FRONTS: 
............... ...&...&.. ............ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Wealher, Inc. Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
KY. 


Atlanta 68 64 Dallas 73 51 New Orleans 70 62 Baltimore 58 51 Denver 61 25 New York 65 49 Boston 65 45 Los Angeles 62 56 Philadelphia 64 51 Chicago 56 37 Miami 83 78 Phoenix 67 53 Columbus 61 56 Minneapolis 35 18 St. Louis 65 49 
q_Q,~p~Q (f ~ u 
Sl!owers T·stonns Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy VIB -\SSOCIBlBd Press GraphiCSNel C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 


• SrtJOENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Teacher accused of sexual assault 
Sand volleyball courts to be built at Saint Mary's 
By BECKY MAYERNIK 
News Writer 
A donation of $250 will be donated by the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board (SAB) to the building of two sand vol­leyball courts. The action was agreed upon at last evening's meeting. 
A proposal by Jan Travis, the Director of Athletics at Saint Mary's, was brought forward to the executive officers of the Board of Governance (BOG). Residence Hall Association (RIIA). and SAB asking for a donation, according to SAB ad­visor Marlene Johnson. 
"This is something that was initially proposed by a student group last year," said SAB co­ordinator Audrey Comrie. "It was researched but not fol­lowed through for various rea­sons." 
"We asked to help with the funding because this is some­thing that we can do for the student body," stated Comrie. 
The sand volleyball courts will most likely be constructed next to Angela Athletic Facility, and could possibly be complet­ed by the beginning of next year. 
Also announced at the meet­ing was the confirmation of the appearance of hypnotist Jim Wand. 
Wand, whose original date of appearance had to be resched­uled, will now perform at Saint Mary's on Tuesday, March 21 at Carroll Auditorium. 
SAB is also looking to book comedians for next semester. according to chairperson Mary Udovich. Many dates are being considered, however the avail­ability of the comedians needs to be confirmed. 

FIESTA BOWL PACKAGE 
$169.00 

•2 NIGHTS/2 PERSONS HOTEL ACCOMODATIONS 
•FREE AIRPORT SHUTILE AND GAME TRANSPORTATION ~ •GAME DAY BREAKFAST BUFFET La 
-~ FOR RESERVATIONS CALL~ (602) 273-1211 RODEWAY INN-AIRPORT WEST 
$26.00 EACH ADDITIONAl PERSON/MAX 4 PERSONS PER ROOM 
NOT VAliD WITH ANY OTHER OFFER 
By MICHELLE DeARMOND 
Associated Press 
PAHRUMP, Nev. . Terry Miller, mother of four, heard the rumors shortly after moving here 12 years ago. Her aerobics teacher was divorcing her husband, a high school coach and teacher, after finding him in bed with a student. 
Over the years, Miller took that and other disturbing accounts to four principals at Pahrump Valley High School. 
Each man said the reports about Joseph Peterson, a well­liked business teacher who led five girls' volleyball teams to the state championship before he was removed as coach, amounted to "hearsay and gos­sip" and nothing could be done unless a victim complained. 
Incredulous at their lack of 
response and worried about the 
safety of her own daughter, 
Miller set out on a mission. 
"I knew there were victims 
out there, that I could find a 
victim and get them· to come 
forward, and by God's grace it 
just all came together," Miller 
said. "The earliest victim I 
found was a 1977 graduate and 
the latest victim was a 1994 
graduate, and I encouraged 
them to come forward." 
Two weeks ago, 49-year-old 
"Pete" Peterson was arrested 
on three counts of sexual 
assault against the '94 gradu­
ate. 
"Three nights a week she 
would stay after for night 
school -which he taught ­
and each night that she stayed 
after he would have sex with 
her," sheriffs investigator Scott 
Huggins said. 
Peterson's lawyer, Peter 
Alpert, declined to let his client comment, and said that he'd just taken the case and knew too little to comment. 

Peterson, whose second and current wives are his former students, is free on bail and suspended with pay pending trial. A hearing is set for Feb. 3. 
Police have interviewed more than 60 women whose stories span Peterson's tenure of almost 20 years. 
He allegedly bribed girls by buying them flowers, clothes and jewelry, taking them on trips, giving or loaning them money and promising good grades, investigators said. Those who rebuffed him were threatened with bad grades. 
"It's like a domino effect," Sheriff Wade Lieseke Jr. said. "One came forward and the rest of them found courage in that. 
"The sad part of this is ... we contact people and it's very obvious in talking with them ... that something happened but they don't want to talk about it," Lieseke said. 
"The girls he picked on were the girls that needed extra attention anyway," said Miller, a substitute kindergarten teacher. "Girls that were from single-parent homes or didn't live with. their parents at all. He knew how to pick them." 
"It's the ones that were either 
financially deprived or their 
parents were very strict," sher­
iffs investigator Doug Richards 
said. 
"Some of the kids didn't know 
it was sexual assault," Huggins 
noted. 
If sex is coerced, with or 
without force, it can be pros­
ecuted as assault, prosecutor 

NOTRE DAME FORUM ON ACADEMIC LIFE 

''The Role of Science in a Catholic University" 
Speaker: Prof. Jacek K. Furdyna Department of Physics 
Respondent: Prof. Maureen T. Hallinan Department of Sociology 

Wednesday, December 7, 1994 7:30P.M. CCE Auditorium 

Sponsored by the Faculty Senate All are welcome. 

younger than that could lead to a statutory rape charge. Some of the students may have been 15, Lieseke said. 
Officials at the 620-student school in Pahrump, a town of 1,300 about 65 miles west of Las Vegas, say they could not act on rumor. 
As principal in the 1980s, Assistant Superintendent Rod Pekarek said, he spoke with Peterson about "these things that were being said," but took no action. 
When parents came to the current principal, Ron Eason. he said he told them "We can­not do anything unless some­body speaks up." 
Peterson, who served as year­book and senior class adviser and coached volleyball, softball and girls' and boys' basketball, was stripped of coaching duties in 1990 -The teams needed "a change in coaching person­nel," Eason said. 
Miller, though, said there were complaints about inappro­priate conduct, including one girl's claim that Peterson walked in on her in the shower. 
When Miller's daughter start­ed high school in 1992, she for­bade her to take Peterson's classes or participate in activi­ties he led, then filed a com­plaint contending her daugh­ter's education was being sti­fled. 
A student also filed a com­plaint last year, and the school district hired an investigator. 
Peterson "was found to have come on to female students," Miller said. "They suspended 
him for five days without pay. I wasn't satisfied. All of the com­plaining that just I've done and they didn't do anything." 
Recycle The Observer 

1-800-SURF'S·UP 


Are you a graduating senior? Would you like tQ design your own public service job? 
the echoing green foundation of New York may be willing to fund your idea through a Public Service Fellowship 
Act now! The deadline for proposals is Feb 6th. For more information, please contact Dr. David Hay at the Notre Dame Urban Institute, 631-9015. 

~-----------.  
page 4  The Observer • NEWS  Tuesday, December 6, 1994  
Schindler continued from page 1 though he was subjected to a "subhuman, subanimal level of slavery" he was still just happy to still be alive at a time when he should have been dead. Then, Kedem was rescued from the work camp by Oskar Schindler, who offered many of the Jews salvation in his muni­tions factory. The Jews he bought to work in the factory were saved from the fatal trip to Auschwitz that all the Jews in the camp would soon be forced to undergo. But, unlike the workers de­picted in the movie, Kedem was not allowed to stay at Schindler's factory. Leopold, commander of the garrison that oversaw the factory, sent Kedem and 4 other youths be­low the age of 13 to Auschwitz. Kedem and the other boys miraculously survived Auschwitz. At the time they arrived, the Germans were in the process of destroying the camp and hiding evidence of the atrocities that occurred there, as the Hussian forces were on the verge of liberating the camp. Hather than killing the remaining prisoners, they (including Kedem) were round­ed up and marched to Germany to serve as slave labor to bol­ster the faltering Nazi war ell'ort. Several months and concen­tration camps later, Kedem was freed. lie was eventually taken in by Allied troops and shipped off to an adoptive fami­ly in England. He attended Oxford and moved to Israel where he became a successful film producer, and now lives in California.  Kedem's youth makes for an extraordinary story. And, as he noted extensively in his lec­ture, it has had a profound effect on his outlook on life. Being able to survive when he was marked for execution gave Kedem an profound apprecia­tion for life. It has also led him to forgive the race that engi­neered the horrors of his youth. "A person preoccupied with hate and anger does not allow himself to enjoy life. Life has a tremendous amount to offer ... [ know what it is like to be dehumanized, so how can I do that to the Germans?" And the incredible tale of Oskar Schindler, Kedem's benefactor for an unfortunately short time, has also deeply af­fected him. "The most pre­cious thing (a person possess­es} is his Iife... He saved my life." As Schindler showed him, "We have the potential...to make life better for our friends, society near us, even for strangers... We do really have the positive potential in all of us." If you see news happening, call The Observer  Council continued from page 1 lege to Jive on campus only for the third violation or after. The proposal read as fol­lows: "Where As. the violation of Parietals regulations as they are outlined in Du Lac are still against University Regulations and the University still re­serves the right to punish any 'violator of Parietals upon any violation, Be it resolved that students will not be forced to leave their on campus residence until their 3rd violation." Kirk and other members quickly noted that upon any violation of parietals referred to the Office of Student Affairs, the University reserves the right to suspend or expel any student. much less discontinue on-campus housing. At present, according to Kirk, discipline is determined by various factors such as motivation, class level of the student, and the level of dis­ruption to the community. Hungeling said, however, that the CLC may consider reviewing the severity of disci­plinary action for parietals, if the agenda allows, and asked Sullivan to see what violations should be treated more seri­ously. Sullivan stated that he in­tended to use his proposed resolution as a way to discuss the priorities of the University disciplinary policies, asserting that "some students get away with much worse things." Sullivan requested that the Council vote on the proposal at the next meeting on January 23.  Selection continued from page 1 then required to schedule an interview with their hall rec­tors before March 3. The appli­cants who are not to be further considered are notified of their status by February 3. After the interviews have been completed, the rectors send lists of their selected can­didates back to Student Affairs. Some dorms, such as Grace Hall, have candidates inter­viewed by the undergraduates who live in the hall, assistant rectors, and current RAs to give the rectors different perspectives in assessing the candidate's personality and qualifications. Applicants who clear the final selection process are then notified of their appointments and sign appointment con­tracts with the rectors of their halls. Soon after their appoint­ments are announced, the newly designated RAs begin their pre-service training and staff orientation. Successful applicants are re­quired to obtain certification in first aid skills before the start of the next academic year and are required to arrive on cam­pus two weeks before the start of the fall semester in order to undergo further training and orientation. While in service, HAs are urged to make themselves known and available to their students in order to assist or refer other sources in any problems students may have. In return for their services, the University provides HAs with free room. board, laun­dry, parking and a reduction of the telephone installation fee.  Physicians to make more money By CHRIS CONNELL Assocja!cd Press WASIIINGTON Medicare w111 raise the amount it reimburses physi­cians for their fees by an aver­age of 7.7 percent on Jan. 1, with surgeons in line for the biggest increases, the govern­ment announced Monday. The increases, which are larger than the Clinton admin­istration wanted, will mean an extra $2.2 billion for physicians who treat the nation's 36 mil­lion elderly or disabled Medicare benefieiaries. Medicare is raising its fee reimbursements 12.2 percent for surgical services, 7. 9 per­cent for primary care services and 5.2 percent for other non­surgical services. The surgeons got the heftiest increase because they per­formed fewer surgeries in 1993 than a target figure set by the government. · "Physicians are getting a reward for keeping spending down." said Bob Doherty, vice president for governmental af­fairs of the American Society of Internal Medicine. "It's like a produ_ctivity bonus." The fee increases would have been even higher had Congress not ordered a 2. 7 percentage point reduction in the increases for everything but primary care as part of the 1993 deficit­reduction act. That measure cut $56 billion from Medicare payments to physicians, hospitals and other providers over five years.  

Looks like a Vivarin night. 
It's 10 PM. You've crammed for finals all week. Took two today. And now you've got to pack an entire semester's worth of Philosophy into one take-home exam, in one night. But how do you stay awake when you're totally wiped? Revive with Vivarin. Safe as coffee, Vivarin helps keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. So when you have pen in hand, but sleep on the brain, make it a Vivarin night! 
GOP selects southern leaders for new congress 
Gingrich first republican speaker in decades 
By DAVID ESPO 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

To chants of "Newt, Newt, Newt," j ubi!ant Republicans chose combative conservative N e w t 
Gingrich on Monday to be the first GOP speaker of the House in four decades. lie vowed action to 


i m p r o v e Newt Gingrich 
"economic opportunity and the safety of virtually every American." 
To serve alongside the 51­year-old Georgian, GOP law­makers tapped two Texans, Richard Armey as majority leader and Tom DeLay as whip, as they rounded out a Southern-based leadership team. 
Gingrich said Republicans would move swiftly beginning on the first day of the new Congress in January to imp_le­ment their "Contract With America," a campaign mani­festo that helped power many GOP candidates to victory last month. 
He cited recent polling infor­mation that said the public backed Republican plans for tax cuts, tougher crime mea­sures and welfare reform by eye-catching margins. "We were elected to keep our word," Gingrich said. "We will keep our word." . 
While Gingrich's elevatiOn won't become official until the 104th Congress convenes on Jan 4, his unanimous selection by GOP lawmakers came at midpassage of an ambitious overhaul of House operations. He let drop one additional morsel during an hour-long speech: With deep staff cuts ~n the works, the GOP caucus IS likely to vote Tuesday to sell one of the federal buildings that House workers occupy. 
Gingrich also said he was hopeful the GOP majorities could show early signs of coop­eration with President Clinton. By the end of January, he sai~. it is possible that Congress will pass and Clinton will sign mea,­sures applying all federal laws to Congress; protecting th.e states against new federal obli­gations that aren't a?~ompa­nied by money; and giVIng the president power to veto por­tions of spending bills without killing the entire legislation. 
In the other leadership races, Armey was unanimously elect­ed majority leader. DeLay won a three-way race for whip, the No. 3 job in the hierarchy. 
The all-Southern cast to the GOP leadership reflects the importance of the Sun Belt as a power center for the new Republican majorities in the House and Senate. Of the par­ty's top five leaders in the House and Senate, only Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas, 71, is from a different region of the country. 
Opened to coverage by televi­sion cameras and packed by newly elected first-termers, the GOP caucus took on the air of a national political convention. "We've only been waiting 40 years for this," said Illinois Rep. Henry Hyde, as he an­nounced Gingrich's unanimous selection. 
Gingrich was accorded a 
standing ovation as he entered 
the room. 
"Yesterday we spent 2 1/2 
hours just walking through 
rooms in the Capitol that the Democrats have never let us in before," he said to appreciative laughter. "And it w~s very ~x­citing. It's a much bigger bmld­ing than I realized." . 
Gingrich, who launched h1s first broadside against Democrats shortly after arriv­ing in Washington in 1979, declined comment on the most recent controversy he ignited. On Sunday, Gingrich said an unnamed senior law en­forcement official had told him that "in his judgment, up to a quarter of the White Hou.se staff, when they first came m, had used drugs in the last four or five years." 
Chief of Staff Leon Panetta responded sharply for the White House, saying Gingrich was "behaving like an out-of­control radio talk-show host." 
Gingrich's remarks to the caucus were a blend of the per­sonal, political and professorial. He choked up briefly as he thanked his wife, Marianne, for her support, suggested all Republican lawmakers read the Declaration of Independence and other works, and offered a sobering political caution to those still celebrating last month's triumphs. 
Not since the 1920s, he said, have Republicans held a House majority for two consecutive terms. 
His speech was more like a presidential nominee's remarks or an inaugural address than a legislator's blueprint, and was sprinkled with references to Franklin Roosevelt, Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. 
Recalling Roosevelt's Depression-era declaration, Gingrich said, "I think we want to say to the nation that ~e have nothing to fear but fear It­self, that we can reach out to­gether as a family, all Americans, and we can dramatically improve the quali­ty of life." 


u 'h • 
lJ 

VV J lfe nOUSe 
upset over drug use allegations 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Suggesting a pattern of Republican recklessness, President Clinton's top adviser 
said Monday "we cannot do business" with Newt Gingrich if the new House speak­er insists on making 


unfounded Bill Clinton 
allegations. "Nonsense," retorted Gingrich. 
From chief of staff Leon Panetta to first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, the adminis­tration pounced on Gingrich for his charges that up to a quarter of the White House staff had used illegal drugs. 
"His charges are absolutely false," Panetta said angrily. 
"The time has come when he has to understand that he has to stop behaving like an out-of­control radio talk show host and begin behaving like the speaker of the House of Representatives," Panetta said. 
Saying he saw signs of "a troubling pattern," Panetta compared Gingrich's remarks with Republican Sen. Jesse Helms' recent warning that Clinton would need a body­guard if he ever visited North Carolina. 
"I think it is so unfair," the first lady said of Gingrich's remarks. She said she hoped it was "a momentary lapse." 
If any Republicans were bothered by Gingrich's accusa­tions, there was no sign of it as House GOP members joyfully installed him as the next House speaker, cheering, "Newt, Newt, Newt." In nominating speeches, he was praised as a visionary. 
Rep. Bob Walker, R-Pa., a close Gingrich ally, said, "This White House is going to have to learn that they no longer have lap dogs on Capitol Hill. ... They're also going to have to learn there's a new majority here." 
Gingrich offered no apolo­gies, saying that if he were Panetta he would be talking to senior law enforcement offi­cials about the charges. "I am very surprised at the way Leon flew off the handle," Gingrich said. 
He dismissed Panetta's stat!)­ment that he couldn't work with the incoming speaker. "His comment was nonsense," Gingrich said. "I am constitu­tionally going to be the chief legislative officer of the House. I don't know who he's going to be chief of staff for if he doesn't want to negotiate with the speaker of the House." 
Meanwhile, a U.N. spokesman reacted Monday to Gingrich's assertion Sunday that the United Nations was a "totally incompetent instru­ment." 
"There are problems and there are areas where ob­viously we could be doing bet­ter ... but to call the organiza­tion a failed organization is completely incorrect," said 
U.N. 
spokesman Joe Sills. "The 

U.N. 
is the sum of its member states and the mandates and authority and resources that the member states give to it, and I think we should always keep that in mind." 


Gingrich ignited the latest flap between Republicans and the White House when he charged in a television inter­view that up to a quarter of the White House staff had used drugs in. the past four or five years. 
Gingrich, who has admitted smoking marijuana as a youth, said the source of his informa­tion was a senior law enforce­ment official, whom he did not name. 
Panetta said that no one in 
the White House uses drugs. "If 
Newt Gingrich has evidence to 
the contrary he ought to tell me 
that, he ought to make it public 
and I'll fire them," Panetta 
said. 
The White House seized on 
Gingrich's remarks as evidence 
that Republicans who are tak­
ing power in Congress are out 
of control and willing to go to 
any length to undercut Clinton. 
"The bigger concern that I 
have," Panetta said, "is that 
this is part of a troubling pat­
tern that we see with Jesse 
Helms and now with Newt 
Gingrich." 

Come join us in a celebration of Mary and Joseph's journey to Bethlehem. 
Date: Tuesday, December 6, 1994 Time: 7:30p.m. Place: Steps of the Administration Building 
A reception will follow in Badin 
Sponsored by: Hispanic American Organization, NAACP, Spanish Club, Multicultural Student Affairs, and Badin Hall 
----~----------~~­
-----------~------~ 

page 6 The Observer ·INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 6, 1994 
Isr8el slow to remove troops from West Bank 
By SAID GHAZALI 
Assncia1eJ Press 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip 

Heading into critical negotia­tions on extending Palestinian autonomy, PLO leaders accused Israel on Monday of trying to renege on a promise to with­draw troops from the West Bank. 
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin indicated he was in no rush to pull the soldiers out because of security concerns, including a rise in attacks on Israelis by Islamic militants. 
Israel and the PLO are to begin negotiations Tuesday in Cairo, Egypt, on the second phase of autonomy -troop withdrawal from Palestinian towns in the West Bank, to be followed by general elections. 
Rabin and his top military advisers are concerned about the safety of 120,000 Jewish settlers in the West Bank if troops are redeployed. 
"We will make it clear to the Israeli side tomorrow that the whole agreement must be implemented because we have had enough delays," the chief Palestinian negotiator, Nabil Shaath, told reporters after meeting with PLO chief Vasser Arafat. 
The autonomy accord origi­nally set troop withdrawal and elections for last July. That has been delayed indefinitely by the security concerns and talks on 
the nature of self-rule gov­ernment. 
"The whole process will col­lapse if Israel continues to delay implementation .... h will be hard for the Palestinian side to continue the talks," said Vasser Abed Rabbo, a member of Arafat's government. 
Rabin told Parliament's Defense and Foreign Affairs Committee on Monday that Arafat has not done enough to rein in Muslim militants in ar­eas under his rule. 
Sixty-seven Israelis have been killed by Palestinians this year, compared to 58 in 1993, Rabin said. 
Rabin suggested that ele­ments of the autonomy accord were subject to change. "Israel is committed to continuation of the negotiations, but no doubt we will have to bear in mind the lessons we have learned so far," he told reporters. 
The PLO government's record in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho will influ­ence the negotiations, Rabin said. He said he didn't want to "drag things out or run amok" but that troop redeployment would take time. 
Some officials close to Rabin have proposed holding elections without moving Israeli soldiers. Dovish legislators, on the other hand, say Israel and the PLO should skip the second autono­my phase and move straight to negotiations on the final status of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 

Israel's nightmare scenario after redeployment is that Israeli civilians will be am­bushed by Muslim militants on West Bank roads and that Palestinian police will do little to catch the assailants. 
Attacks on Israelis could cost Rabin's Labor t>arty the 1996 election, party leaders have warned. They suggest suspend­ing negotiations until after the balloting. 
In a reminder of the growing appeal of Islamic militants, the extremist Hamas movement won student council elections at Gaza City's Islamic University on Monday. 
If Israeli troops withdraw, the army plans to build some bypass roads for Israeli settlers to reduce friction with Palestinians. Rabin said Monday that $11.5 million was allocated for feasibility studies. 
In a related development, the head of the Israeli negotiating team with the PLO, Brig. Gen. Danny Rothschild, resigned from the team and the army on Monday. 
Some reports said Rothschild stepped down because he was passed over for a position in army intelligence. He will be replaced in the PLO talks by Brig. Gen. Gadi Zohar, military governor of the West Bank. 
TOUR EUROPE THIS SUMMER 

AND EARN THREE ND CREDITS! 
INTERACT WITH TOP-LEVEL MANAGEMENT & BUSINESS EXECUTIVES 
VISIT 
ROME & FLORENCE, ITALY; lNNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA; MUNICH, GERMANY; GENEVA, SWITZERLAND; PARIS, FRANCE; LoNDON, UNITED KINGDOM. 
TRIP DATES-MAY 15TH-]UNE 8TH INFORMATIONAL MEETING DATE:DEC. 6111 , 1994 TIME: 4:30-5:30 PLACE: 2201IAYESHEALY 
\ 
SPONSORS: ND MARKETING DEPT. &INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS SEMINARS 

Israeli West Bank troop pulloU,linquestion :":i: 
~ered by attacks from Islamic militants, Israeli officials are debating whelher they can keep a promise to the PLO to pull troops out of the urban areas of the West Bank before Palestinian elections. The key question: maintaining security for 120,000 Jewish settlers who live there. 
Arab Jewish settlements settlements 
• 0-5,000 ° • 5,000-70,000 0 • 70,000-125,000 0 

ISRAEL 
10 miles 
ES 
10km 
APN/m. J. Castello 

When the Great 
American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at lhe University of Noire Dame for college graduate~ interested in exploring the po~~ihility or a lil'ctime of service as a Holy Crm~ priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon. C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 631-63X5 


•Seleclit~n
1841 SOUTH 
•Seruice 
BEND AVEf) 
•1'11slers •1-Shirls
277-8338 
•Slickers.
...and mt~re 

LARGESELECT/OK-LOWLOWPRICES 


VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, December 6, 1994 page 7 


• DESIDERATA 
Presence will support humans 
Th'e night division fell, 
'" • '" I ""' 
As a committed opponent of Law School -a chapter of the which has been adopted by the death penalty, my senti­National Coalition to Abolish, many leaders within the 
diversity conquered
ments on the subject are the Death Penalty (NCADP). Catholic Church, teaches that 
always strong. However, I find Fortunately, we had not yet all life is precious and that the D~ Editor; that my feelings increase in dealt with a specific execution state should therefore never Pages fly by withOut a thought 
intensity when an actual execu­-until now, that is. Last week tolerate its destruction -a ditty arrests the benign wind 
tion is imminent. This is per­I was informed by a colleague whether by abortion, capital and the scent ofmusic 
haps natural, for instead of that one Gregory Resnover had punishment, nuclear weapons, descends on our souls 
dealing with a general, faceless been sentenced to die early in or other means. In a statement Can a Saturday night dance rigmarole become a symbolic 
Kirsten Dunne 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY
• Dom.JESBURY 
"Nothing is so good as it seems beforehand." 
-George Eliot 


THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Editor...............................Mary Good Systems Manager ............................Don Kingston Photo Editor.......................Scou Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the indepcndenr newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Maty's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­rion ofeither insrimrion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo  631-4541 631-4543 631-5323  Advertising Systems/Marketing Dept. Office Manager  631-6900I 8840 631-8839 631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's Day Edi lor I Production General Information  631-4540 631-5303 631-7471  Fax E-Mail Unix  631-6927 Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu observer@boron.helios.nd.edu  



Helms November 1994 
issue, we are, in these situa­tions, confronted with an, indi­vidual person -someone with a name, a history, and a family. 
The last execution of which I am aware occurred last May. Although I had finished finals I was still here in South Bend; the execu­tion was to take place in my own hometown of Chicago. As I watched the news and it became painfully clear that the killing was, indeed, going to occur, I began to feel slightly guilty. It was not within my power to save the condemned man's life, but I could have gone home and joined those who gathered to peacefully oppose the execution. I could have even planned a small cer­emony on campus for those who remained here during senior week. As it was, howev­er, I sat alone in my apartment and prayed for the salvation of the man' s soul, still wishing and believing that I could have done more. 
With the start of a new school year I became more active in the fight against capital punish­ment in my capacity as a mem­hcr and officer of a newly­formed abolitionist group in the the morning on the eighth of December. 
This time, I knew something had to be done, and luckily, other members in the group agreed. With the help of the University's Chapter of Amnesty International and the Center for 
Civil and 

Human, Rights, we were able to organize t w 0 events. 0 n e group of students will actu­
ally trav­el to Michigan City to join other abolitionists in opposition and prayer. Another group will meet on campus in the Law School Lounge at 11:45 p.m. on Wednesday for one half-hour to pray, reflect and quietly dissent from the government's decision to take Mr. Resnover's life. 
Although my emphasis in the instant article is an individual life rather than the capital pun­ishment issue generally, I think one broad comment is in order. I find that many Catholics, while they support the pro-life cause with a vengeance, con­sider the death penalty to be wholly acceptable. 
This is not only illogical, but contrary to the Church's actual position on the issue. The "seamless garment" argument, made only this year, the Catholic Bishops of New York succinctly and forcefully sum­marized their position: "Capital punishment is the easy way out of addressing the complex, per­vasive, and expensive problems which surround us. The death penalty is no more the answer for violent crime than abortion is the answer to unplanned pregnancies. Death is never the answer." 
At the base of every debate are people. While this fact is often obscured by generalities, I believe that the vigils we have planned provide a unique opportunity for abolitionists to reflect on those individuals whom the issue touches most personally. 
I would therefore invite all opponents of capital punish­ment to participate. Of course, I respect that time is precious with finals around the corner. But l do not doubt that, should you choose to participate, your prayers will prove rewarding ­not only to yourself, but to Mr. Resnover and the family he will leave behind. 
In other words, your presence will not only aid the fight against capital punishment. It will provide support to concrete human persons. That is more than enough to convince me that my time at one of these vigils will be well-spent. Please, if you are able, join us. 
Kirsten Dunne is a third-year law student. 

statement in world harmony? Can you be one with a group of strangers you will never see again? Can the world embrace the virtues of inclusiveness, selfless personal-ness and together· ness? . 
An outing Ia%t Saturday at the Deamici club, Mishawaka, addressed these questions for us. After an evening immersed in the rhythm of reggae, lost in the austere richness of the URAEUS band's music, contemplating and musing about its philosophical and sociological dimensions seem immensely worthwhile. 
While the music. played, and the singers warbled, it was a time to feel and belong, not to make conversation over or about. The dance floor was drugging, and in a spin, one was trans·, formed from the heavyweight hooples of academic dissonance, to a heartwarming clique of belonging and being. The .magic was contagious, for at once the crowd wove into a circle, delightfully inclusive, sashaying gently, chorusing softly with the URAEUS' lead. 
Everything's gonna be alright. 
Everything's gonna be alright ... 
In a moment frozen in time in our memories, that room stood against each obstacle the modern world places against peace impersonal materialism, racism. pretense. and distrust; every person unconsCiously yearning for a better world. 
It stood for transparency and caring; everything seemed per· sonal, and in contrast, to the growing impersonality of the world. The people seemed to harbor a bias -a desire for the down-to-earth, tbe simple, the open, in preference to the artifi­cial, and the unreal. · 
It stood for multiculturalism c:-multiculture in its true sense, where bC) ..•..~ ·.·.·· e .seemed dominant. and the universe was accepted.ari r(:)spected.. ·trust and love intertwined, to· make the music even more hannonious. · · 
It stood against the perpetual inroads wealth, capitalism and materialism make into social and group harmony. Individualism, the cornerstone of the successful, wealthy elite, was out. Belongingnes.s. the solace of the egalitarian soul. was in. And our souls wanted to sing along. 
We'll be together 
every day and every night.,. 
SHANKAR RAMACHANDRAN 
CELSO FRANCA 
·Peace House 


~~~--------~--------------------------------------~----------~--------------------------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, December 6, 1994 
• LIFE AFTER fiNALS 
Christmas spirit means more than IVIn 
resents 

• PEACE ON EARTH 
Non-violent solutions through truth and love 
I was a product of the 50's: Montgomery. This news electri­Civil Defense drills, the Red lied the nation, and young peo­Menace, McCarthyism, super­ple from all over the country patriotism, Korean War, piled on busses to travel to ... After spending four years in Alabama to march with him. the Navy, I arrived at the But the busses were all redi­University of Wisconsin in the rected to Washington, D.C. Dr. fall of 1964. As a good Catholic, King only wanted those trained I sought out the campus chapel in non-violent, direct action to and joined a group called be with him. He was afraid that Young Christian Students (YCS). untrained hot heads would 
The YCS group at Wisconsin retaliate violently against his was very reflective and at the oppressors and the civil rights same time very action oriented. movement would lose its moral 
high ground. 
I started out on the busses which were sent to Washington. I was very much afraid and
Peter 
made the decision to go only after I was unable to dissuade a close friend from going. She was a history major and had a
Smith 
much better understanding of 

the struggle for civil rights than We were encouraged to take on I did. We got off the busses projects which would help when we discovered they were alleviate some injustice at the headed to D.C., but the YCS University. Some of these pro­group rented a bus a few days jects were next to impossible. later and traveled to One of my friends and I tried to Montgomery when Dr. King de­ligure out how to stop students cided to open the march on its from wasting so much food in last day to all who supported the dining hall. But, by tackling his movement. projects which seemed unat­The experience of that march tainable, I learnPd that it is not was a conversion experience success that is important, but for me. I had to overcome my commitment to do what seems fear and engage in my first to be right and constant ques­non-violent direct action. The and each time I was moved to income tax each year, Dr. tioning of that commitment by line of march was several peo­the core by his simple elo­King's example is always before dialogue with those who hold ple abreast and stretched as far quence. His message of non­me, pointing out the way of 
·other views. Although I didn't as the eye could see in both violence rooted in Christian non-violence with its belief in know it then, this commitment directions. We flowed out into principles, his courage to stand the innate ability of people to and questioning is at the heart the square in front of the up for what he believed in change their minds and hearts of the nonviolent life style. Alabama Capitol with its con­when the odds seemed insur­when confronted with the 
It was during this time of in­federate nag flying high over­mountable, motivated me to power of truth and love. l«'nSfl reflection/action that we head and spent the afternoon dedicate my life to non-violent Peter Smith is a professor of heard that Martin Luther King listening to speeches by very struggle against racism and mathematics at Saint Mary's had been beatfm and attacked committed individuals including other forms of injustice. When I College. Editor's Note: This is by police dogs when he and a Dr. King himself. hand out leaflets on the corner the second in a five-part series small group or his followers had I was to hear Dr. King again every Tuesday or refuse to pay of columns on Dr. Martin tried to march from Selma to in Chicago a few years later, the military portion of my Luther King, Jr. 
• lETTER Ttl ItiE tOHOR 
Students need a lesson in responsibility 
Dear Editor: 
Jeff Dix's stat11ment in a recent artiele to The Observer concerning the termination of the Weekend Wheels program is simply outrageous. This pro­gram is apparently being terminated bHcause of underutilization. According to Dix it is because of the University's policy that stu­dents could not use this service to go to bars which hindered the number of riders. From this he concludes that he doesn't "think the administration has a serious commitment to stop­ping drunk driving if that's their attitude". 
What unadulterated non­sense! The implication is that the main reason a student would want to go ofT campus is to get drunk and if he or shn does just that it is the University's responsib.ility to get them home safely. Where and when does the student's responsibility manifest itself? 
It seems as if' more and more people are playing the "blame game," i.e., not accepting responsibility for their own actions or lack thereof. It is al­ways the fault of someone or something else. I suppose, and heaven forbid, if a drunken Notre Dame student is involved in a serious accident, it will be the University's fault. Getting drunk is stupid enough, getting drunk and driving is criminal. Dix and like-minded students -grow up! 
MORTON FUCHS 
Professor 
Department of Biological Sciences 

'Tis the Season to Give the Hight Things 
Is it a coincidence that two of the col­ors most assodatP.d with C:hristmas are green and gold? Or that the three most common words in the air are "cash or charge?" I think not. 
For those of you who have been living in the Cushing student lounge for the past month, it is the holiday season, a time for peace on earth, goodwill towards humanity and gold Mastereards for all. 

Paul Pearson 
Of course, for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, shopping is easy, right? (Well, with exams and SYHs, it had bet­tnr be.) A few trips to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore ("On the Campus") is all it takes to get every family member baek home a new addition to his/her growing Fighting Irish wardrobe. 
I should know. I used to do it myself. In faet, it got to the point when my little sister would just mail me the latest Athletic Department catalog with certain items circled. One-stop shopping at its lin est. 
Nowadays, a trip to the Hammes Bookstore is not quite as convenient as it used to be. Doesn't matter. The University, and the Alumni Association, are doing their best to make sure I still ean do all my Christmas shopping by buying little souvenirs of the Notre Dame experience. 
One of the Alumni Association's latest offerings is a customized desk lamp. For a certain price (which I can't quote right now, as the brochure is buried under Far Side cards and wrapping paper), you can give your favorite alum a lamp with the Notre Dame logo. You can even have his/her name engraved into the base. This feature seems most useful if: 
•People 
visiting the alum forget his/her name. 

•*The alum forgets his/her name, ("Hi, Mr. Gates, this is ... uhh ... one moment please ... ") or 

•The 
alum currently works in the dark. 


Of course, the Alumni Association has the right to put the logo on whatever it thinks will bring in money, and alums certainly have earned the right to spend their money any way they desire. 
But think for just a moment: Is that what Christmas is all about? Finding and buying neato goodies with the school's logo on it? 
It seems to me that, if there's a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's graduate on your Christmas list, there are much better ways to show that alum how much you care. 
One of the things you can do is make a donation to the Annual Fund in the name of someone you love. I think that Peggy Hill Rosenkranz, who recently gave $1 million to the Saint Mary's art department, shows more holiday cheer than any turtle dove ever did. 
You can make a contribution to a favorite charity in the name of an alum. There are plenty of worthy causes out there, from your local youth center to the Holy Cross Associates in Mexico (including my friend and colleague, Meredith McCullough). Believe me, all 

~------~,~~~----_.~------------­
\ 
• 
r 

those volunteers have lots of great things they could be doing instead of working to improve their world. 
Or, even better, you can volunteer yourself for a worthy cause or organize the local alumni club to put on an event. When they ask why you're doing this, tell them it's what all good Domers are just "supposed" to do. 
According to Father Malloy's latest "Merry Christmas/Please send money" letter, some 1,600 Notre Dame students (and, I'm sure, a comparable number of Saint Mary's students) are involved in community service through the Center for Social Concerns. Why shouldn't that fact be true of alums as well? 
Now, I'm not saying that you should throw out those catalogs and brochures and 1-800-BUY-THIS numbers. They are very useful, and Christmas presents are wonderful things to give and receive. Trust me, linding Fiesta Bowl tickflts in my stocking would make me QUITE merry, indeed. 
However, you don't need gold, frank­incense and myrrh to show your Christmas spirit. 
Good luck with your tests, everybody. 
Paul Pearson '93 is a former Observer news writer who currently works for a trilingual newspaper in Tampa, Florida. He can be reached through e-mail at "paulp74115@aol.com." 
ACCENT 
Tuesday, December 6, 1994 page 9 
Summer combines sports and service for students 
By TONY POTTINGER 
Accent Writer 
Training table lunches at the dining hall. summer classes, and team sports-a student athlete's day at Notre Dame during the summer session? No, it is the National Youth Sports Program {NYSP) at Notre Dame, to be held this July by the Center for Social Concerns' Summer Service Program. 
The program entails five weeks of academic enrichment and organized athletics coordi­nated and run by Notre Dame staff and students. Brought to Notre Dame by Demetrius Marlowe, a former academic advisor at the university, the program is funded by an an­nual grant from the NCAA to allow over 200 economically disadvantaged kids from the Michiana region to interact with one another and to experi­ence life on a college campus. The participants, ages 10-16, are selected through the region's schools and social agencies such as the Housing Authority. All must meet feder­al poverty guidelines in order to participate. 
"The program allows the University to make a contribu­tion to the local community with special regard to at-risk kids , many of whom -have never set foot on the Notre Dame campus or had the opportunity to do so," says Jim Roemer, University Director of Community Relations. "But the students who run the program learn much about themselves and have the chance to get out of themselves something unique and wonderful." 

Father Bill Beauchamp, University Executive Vice President echoes Roemer's sen­timents. "It's a great program in that it joins the University and the NCAA in a program that is exciting because its depth goes beyond just athlet­ics," says Beauchamp. 
"It's essentially a five-week self-esteem camp," says Kristen Dales, a counselor at the Madison Center and this year's Activity Director for NYSP. Ten Notre Dame students, selected from an applications process, receive free room and board, a $1,200 tuition stipend, and three credits from the theology department for their participa­tion as "Youth Coordinators." Each is responsible for leading a group of kids through the program's daily activities, which include a specially cho­sen nutritious lunch at South Dining Hall, drug and alcohol education, computer, science and math instruction, as well as a wide range of sports such as swimming, basketball, and soc­cer. 

''I'm interested in becoming a teacher, and I felt this would give me a unique experience with kids I wouldn't normally interact with," says senior so­ciology and CAPP major Kara Ratliffe, a 1993 participant. "I learned to value the things that I've been given all my life but had taken for granted," says the Knott Hall resident. 
NYSP provides a link between Notre Dame and local children whose experiences with educa­tion and growing up have often been negative. "For many of these kids, the lunch they get at South Dining Hall may be the only food they eat that day," laments Roemer. "What is great is that we get the kids thinking, 'if I can do better in school and work hard, I can go to college too.' It's like a Head Start pro­gram for college," he explains. 
"Teachers in the local schools 
tell us they see a difference in 
the kids who attend. The pro­
gram makes a tremendous im­
pact about the importance of 
education and in breaking 
down stereotypes," says Dales. 
This year's session runs from June 26th through August 5th. An informational meeting for Notre Dame students interested in the program this summer will be held tonight in the class­room of the Center for Social 
.Concerns at 5:30 p.m. 
• MEDICAl MINUTE 
Steroids: Are they worth the weight? 

By JOANNE PAVIN 
Accent Columnist 
Paranoia, hallucinations. delusions of grandeur, violent tendencies, mood swings, manic episodes -just a list of psychological problems? Yes, but these etTects can be extremely terrifying com­ing from an athlete who can bench press the equivalence of two grown men and whose biceps are bigger than two of your legs put together. These psycho­logical problems are a few of the many side ell'ects that anabolic steroid users experience. 
The list of psychiatric and physiologi­cal effects from steroid use are lengthy, but that does not seem to stop their widespread use. Recording to David L. Katz M.D. at McLean Hospital and Harvard Medical School, despite steroids' illegal status, an estimated 80% of athletes use them or have experimented with them at some point in time. 
The athletes Katz interviewed put steroid use among competitive body­builders at 100%. Katz also stated that some 85% of all professional football players and 1-3% of all college seniors in the U.S. have tried them. Their illegal status in national and international competition has had Olympic athletes disqualified, just ask Ben Johnson who was the Canadian gold medal winner of the 1988 track and field Olympic games who had his medal taken from him after confirmation of his steroid use. 
Anabolic (build up of tissue) andro­genic (male producing) steroids (class of hormones) are synthetic derivatives or .variations of the· natural hormone testosterone. Testosterone is an andro­gen and has long been associated with male aggression. 
Anabolic steroids are used to build 
muscle mass. boost strength, and are 
rapable of halting protein breakdown 
which permits longer greater intensity 
workouts. They can be either injected 
or ingested orally. Studies have con­
firmed that steroids can increase muse 
mass when used in large amounts and 
coupled with intense exercise. One 
study demonstrated an average 8.9 
pound gain of lean muscle in body 
builders who used steroids during a ten week period. 
Steroids may help develop muscle, however, the risks far outweigh any advantage. Side effects of steroids can be dangerous and irreversible. Short term ·side effects include acne, increased aggressiveness (sometimes referred to as "roid rages"). mood swings, deepening of the voice, increased facial hair, decreased sperm production, decreased high density lipoprotein (HDL's the good cholesterol which should remain high), an increase in low density lipoprotein ( LDL's the bad cholesterol which should remain low), and a list of psychological prob­lems including psychological addiction. Long term effects may result from some of the short term effects such as male sterility and permanent facial hair on women. Other long term effects include kidney, liver, and heart damage, degen­erative joint disease, and baldness. 
Female steroid users upset their hor­monal balance. Women have .1 mg of testosterone in their body compared with a man's 5-10 mg. Dr. Katz stated that athletes take 20 mg of an anabolic steroids daily with a once a month injection of 200 mg of testosterone. Imagine this much testosterone in a body used to .1 mg. This astronomical testosterone level causes women to develop masculine traits, such as a mustache and deeper voice. It also enlarges the clitoris, disrupts the men­strual cycle, shrinks the breast tissue and causes the uterus to atrophy. 
How can steroids have such an 
adverse effect on the body when they 
produce tremendous athletic advance­
ment? It all has to so with the endocrine 
(hormonal system) function in the body. 
In males, normal testosterone secretion 
causes sperm production by the testes, 
these secretions are controlled and reg­
ulated by hormones from the anterior 
pituitary gland so that a constant level 
of testosterone is maintained. 
Androgenic steroid drugs inhibit the 
anterior pituitary gland or stop the sig­
nals that go to the testes for normal 
testosterone secretion and sperm pro­
duction. As a result, testosterone secre­
tion and sperm production decrease 
and the testes atrophy. 

In females, inhibition of the anterior pituitary gland stop~ hormonal output that controls ovarian function which results in a failure to ovulate. menstrual irregularities, decreased secretion of feminizing female sex hormone, estro­gen and decreased breast size. 
Liver dysfunction and tumors are common with high steroid use because the liver normally inactivates natural steroid hormones and prepares them for urinary excretion, but it is unable to function normally when overloaded by excess doses of steroids. 
Heart problems or atherosclerosis, hardening of the arteries, results from the plaque build up on the walls of the arteries due to the rise in high density lipoproteins (HDL's). 
Although it has been found that psy­chotic and manic symptoms disappear promptly when steroid use was discon­tinued, the physiological effects can be long lasting and irreversible. Pope H. MD stated " acne will go away and testi­cles will return to normal size, but if you're in jail for 20 years because of a 'roid rage', that's a pretty serious effect in itself." 
So before you or a friend makes the choice to inject of ingest these powerful drugs to catch the competitive edge, in­crease speed, or beautify the body, think about if the athletic achievement is worth the life long impairments. 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, December 6, 1994 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 

Remaining Fab Five finish off Titans, 87-76 
Associated Press you do that against Duke, they during that lull, went on a 12-0 to play gave the Wildcats a 75-Canisius (3-2) had closed will score 50 points," Michigan spurt and the Wolverines 55 edge. The lead grew to 22 within six points, 41-35, seven 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

coach Steve Fisher said. forged a 45-29 halftime lead. on a three-point play by Kittles minutes into the second half Only two of the Fab Five re­But the Titans, who had two The Titans, who won just once with 7:59 remaining. when forward Craig Wise main at Michigan. On nights long scoring droughts in the on the road all last season, had "Offensively, that's as well as dunked the rebound of a missed like Monday, two are enough. 
first half, didn't score any bas­only 10 baskets in the first half, we can play," Villanova coach jumper by Darrell Barley. 
Hay Jackson and Jimmy King 

kets between Porter's shot with six of them 3-pointers. For the Steve Lappas said. "But defen­Peral's 3-pointer with 5:57 to hit key baskets down the 
4:16 remaining and his last game, they had 13 3-pointers sively, the first half was as play put Wake Forest (3-1)
stretch and the 23rd-ranked 

basket with seven seconds left. and 13 2-pointers. poorly as we can play. The sec­ahead 58-43 and ended anyWolverines held off a late rally 
"We were definitely under­ond half was a lot better." possibility of a Golden Griffin by Detroit for an 87-76 victory. 
sized and outmanned," said 'Villanova 98, Seton Hall 75 Seton Hall coach George ccrmeback. The Demon "We're finding ourselves, but 
Detroit coach Perry Watson, a Blaney was impressed with Deacons' lead was never less we've also got to learn to deal 
former Michigan assistant Villanova tied a home court Villanova. than eight points from that with our leads," said Jackson, 
starting his second season with record for points Monday night, "They played very well," he point on. 
who scored six of his 20 points 

the Titans. "But it tells a lot and Jonathan Haynes said the said. "They moved the ball ex­Peral, a former member of in the last 2:51. "We've got to about the character of this reason was good defense. tremely well and they have a lot Spain's junior national team, put teams away." 
team that we came back." Kerry Kittles had 25 points of experience. They dribble, also grabbed eight rebounds as It was the first home game for Meanwhile, Jackson hit a bas­and Haynes added 21 points penetrate and kick the ball out, the Demon Deacons outre­
the Wolverines (4-2), who 

ket and four free throws to seal and six assists as the 24th­and they can hit their 3-point bounded Canisius 43-24. 
played their first five games on 

the win for the Wolverines, who ranked Wildcats defeated Seton shots." "Tonight was very atypical for 
the road or at neutral sites. 

were using their fifth different Hall98-75 in the Big East open­Ricardo in terms of the number Last week, the Wolverines lost starting lineup. King, who er for both teams. Wake Forest 74, Canisius 60 of points," Odom cautioned. 
to Arizona in the Great Eight 

scored 15 for Michigan, also "When we play good defense. "Somewhere in the middle is 
and won at Tennessee­

had a basket down the stretch. we play great offense," said Randolph Childress issued a the real Ricardo." 
Chattanooga, dropping from 

Michigan, which goes back on Haynes, a senior point guard. challenge, and Ricardo Peral Micheal Meeks scored 21 to 17th to 23rd in this week's AP 
the road to play No. 9 Duke on "The coach always stresses answered it so well that Wake lead Canisius, which had its 16­poll. 
Saturday, shot 51 percent, that, and we know that the de­Forest coach Dave Odom had to game home winning streak The Wolverines are breaking holding Detroit to 45 percent, fense gets us turnovers and issue a disclaimer: Don't expect snapped.
in five new freshmen. Three of 

and outrebounded the Titans that's when we get our running 19 points every night out of the Wake Forest needed Peral's them were in double figures 43-31. game going." kid from Spain. scoring as it was without Tim against Detroit. 
"For 15 minutes in the first Jason Lawson added 18 points "I don't think he's as bad as Duncan for most of the second "As a unit, we're trying to feel 
half and about seven minutes in for the Wildcats, who shot 60 he was in the first three half after he picked up his one another out." Jackson said. 
the second half, we were percent from the field. Danny games," Odom said following fourth personal with 15:50 to "I think that's what you're see­
good," Fisher said. Hurley had 13 points and No. 25 Wake Forest's 74-60 win play.
ing right now." 

"They made some big time Donnell Williams 12 for Seton over Canisius. "But. he's not as The 6-foot-10 Duncan av­
The Titans (1-3), who have 

3's. If you get on a roll and Hall (2-2). good as he was tonight." erages 16.7 points per gamelost their last 17 games against think you're good, you'll come The Wildcats made their first Peral, a sophomore forward and is taller than every
Big Ten competition dating 

up big." nine shots and jumped out to a from Valladolid, Spain, entered Canisius team member. 
back to 1984, trailed 59-35 

Detroit, which led 12-7 with 27-11 lead, with Kittles scoring the game averaging 3.0 points In Wake Forest's first three with 14:35 left to play. 
14:52 left in the first half, went 10 of the points. A 3-point play per game, but stepped up in games, Duncan and Childress 
But with Terrance Porter 

scoreless for the next 4:10. by Alvin Williams with 7:11 left response to Childress' public combined for 119 points -19 
scoring 12 of his 15 points, 

With freshman Jerod Ward in the half gave Villanova a 40-challenge to his teammates fol­more than the other 12 playersDetroit outscored Michigan 31­
scoring nine of his 13 points, 27 lead before Hurley rallied lowing an 81-70 loss to Florida combined. 
16 over the next 10 minutes, 

the Wolverines went on a 20-2 the Pirates to 35-27. on Saturday. "We need, in our conference,getting the deficit down to 75­run for a 26-14 lead. The Villanova continued its hot Childress, an All-Atlantic four and live guys a night hit­
66. Porter scored all of his 

Titans also went scoreless the shooting and took a 58-48 half­Coast Conference selection last ting on all cylinders," Odom points in the second half on live final 3:22 of the half. Michigan, time lead, and a three-point season, scored 12 second-half said. "We're a young team try­3-pointers. 
with King scoring five points play by Eric Eberz with 13:42 points to finish with 18. ing to get it all together."
"We had a stretch where if 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. a1 the Notre Dame office, 314 L~Fonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. a1 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day dassificds is 3p.m. All dassificds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NEED HELP: FEMALE N.D.  Your House for Spring semester is  Super Sharp 3 Bdrm. Approx 3/10  Those persons responsible have  
NOTICES  GRADUATE OR LAW STUDENT TO HOUSE SIT WITH 17·YEAR  available now! Completely remod­eled 3-4 bdrm 2 BLOCKS from  mi S. of N.D. @ 1018 N. Eddy. Why waste rent, build equity. Low $30's.  I need a ride to (or anywhere near) Dallas. TX for Christmas. If you  been sacked  
OLD FEMALE. APPROX. 6 DAYS  campus. Full basement . all new  Call for showing! 271-8100  think you can help. please call Tom  Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS  PER MONTH BEGINNING MID  appliances, and monitored security  Steve Weldy • ERA Brokers Assoc.  at x3253. I will pay.  Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  
10·6 m·sat pandora's books  JANUARY. CALL 219-277-5762  system included! Single rooms or  1 (800)359-9808  
ND ave & Howard st 10·6 m-sat  entire place available.  Be sure to wish a happy belated  
233·2342 cool stuff cool store  ATIENTION AMBITIOUS. SELF·  Call Mike@ 233·9609 today/  AT&T WORD PROCESSOR  20th birthday to CAROLYN  
MOTIVATED Students. The  4 SALE  KEIPER!!!  Cherub.  
SHENANIGANS  ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is  room for rent 2 blocks from the  X1913  If you KANT bring yourself to  Does it bother you?  
Christmas Concert  currently interviewing students for  campus.on ivy rd.nica place,/ need  HUME her a birthday tune. at least  Felix.  
SAT.. DEC. 10  Summer '95 management posi·  the money desperately.  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  be a PRINCE and tell her happy  
7:00P.M. Washington Hall  lions. Earn money in excess of  call272-2163  200$ a mo.  at $85,900. First floor location.  birthday!!!  Up late Thursday night?  
FREE ADMISSION  $10,000. Call now, 1·800·477·1001  Finished basement with full lavato­ Tune into Christmas Nocturne  
tix avail. at Lafortune info. desk  for a campus representative.  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL·  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  with Paul and Katie at midnight  
ILOST & FOUND I  Wanted! Individuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING  ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272·6306  ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616) 946·0700.  Wish your friends a nifty holiday  on WSND 88.9 FM  
BREAK '95. Earn substantial  Bed 'N Breakfast Registry ­ season with an Observer personal.  Need a ride from and maybe to  
LOST: This is ridiculous, but some·  MONEY & FREE TRIPS. CALL  Private Homes  The final paper of the semester is  Iowa for break  
how my coat was switched with another woman's coat at the Grace  INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1· 800-327-6013  JPW, Graduation 219-291·7153  TICKETS  Dec. 9, and the deadline is 3pm, Dec 8. Good luck on finals!!  4333-Jim  
formal last semester in April at  
Union Station. It was a black  WANTED PARTIIME LAB TECH  WANTED: 5 students for beautifully  Buy/sell FIESTA BOWL tickets.  Top Ten Highlights from NDE #33:  
Ashley Scott long dress coat. If you  WITH CG EXP. SEND RESUME  remodeled home·Huge yard with  Great seats available. We buy and  The Notre Dame Glee Club  as compiled by Stanford 3East  
think you may have the wrong coat.  TO:  oversized deck, security system,  sell concerts, sports, & theatre tick­ Christmas Concert.  10. A small, shiny white boy  
let me know. Liz x 1277  BOX 4103  washer. dryer. 5 blocks from main  ets. VISA, MIC, AMEX. Ticket  Saturday, December 10  9. 36 days of Christmas and a stir­ 
SOUTH BEND IN 46634  circle. Available NOW for 2nd  Exchange Inc. since 1981 800-800·  8:15pm, JACC Gate 10  ring rendition of Daughter  
LOST: Bright blue Gortex 1acket  semester. 2n·0636  9811  admission $2 • all proceeds bene­ 8. Fr. Leahy turnovers  
with green lining. Last seen at  Starting at $12/hr! The Princeton  fiting the South Bend  7. Meeting those cool guys from  
North Dining Hall. Please call Mike  Review is looking for .people to  Sublet 2BR Townhouse at TURTLE  FIESTA BOWL TICKETS  Center for the Homeless •  Stanford 3 east  
at x2027 with any information.  teach our test preparation courses.  CREEK Next Semester!  GOOD SEATS  Tickets available at the LaFortune  6. 2 girls with scars, a guy without  
Generous reward for its return.  If you·ve earned a high score on the  @Dayne X1945  Information Desk, the Haggar  a circus, and Pierre  
LOST I  GMAT. MCAT or GRE and would like to work 6-1 Ohrs in the evenings  1 BEDROOM HOUSE TO RENT  PERSONAL  College Center Information Desk, the JACC Ticket Office, and the  5. Silence is good 4. Lakeside conversations with  
If anyone has found a pair of per·  and on weekends, contact us at:  FROM JAN '95 $225 PER MONTH  Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office.  Mor\k (what ducks)  
scription glasses, I could really use  (800)865·7737.  CONTACT ROD @ 2397924  SOPHOMORE MALE SEEKS  3. The cup game (woops)  
them. They are golden framed and  
 OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FOR  2. Euchre in the hallways  
have no nose pads. The perscrip· lion is really, really strong. If found call Mike at 634·3597.  L...-_F_O_R_RE_N_T_  ___.I 1,, HO:.~~~~:LE  SPRING SEMESTER. CALL SEAN 703-931-6864 OR PAGE ME AT 1­800· 706-3255.  Come by Cactus Jack's and see what's brewing. Visit the Cantina and shoot some pool, or watch the game. Bring in todays observer and  1 . Stanford Hall-wellspring of spiri· tuality. Sticky Fingers is ridiculously silly.  
Zepfest House '95·96. Free maid  1994 players with trades, etc...  Quality Copies. Quickly!! I  receive $2.50 off any purchase.  Actually, he should be beat into  
LOST: Dinosaur-shaped pewter  serv.. sand V·ball ct.,6·bedrm.  almost brand new, has all books  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Expires today.  oblivion, bra.  
earring in or near DeBartolo on  273·0482 234·3831  and the registration form.  LaFortune Student Center  Love, peace. and tacosl  
Tues. night 11/29. If you find it,  best offer; call Tom at 4-1712  Phone 631·COPY  Larry Bird. MJ. and Peter Gabriel?  
please call Linda at 232-2739.  Roommate needed for spring sem.  
254-0317  Spring Break Early Specials!  Going to Madrid next semester  
FOUND: Fleece lined handmade  Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12  Looking for three fun guys to  through SLU? Call Liz 634-1277 or  watch the wondering this weekend  
mittens. Stop by 104 O"Shag.  NEAR CAMPUS  meals $279! Panama City  "Dance Naked" with us at the  Amy 284-5169  
HOMES FOR RENT  Oceanview Kitchens $129! Cancun  Cavanaugh Formal Dec. 10. If you  the voices  
95·96 SCHOOL YR  & Jamaica $399! Daytona $159/  accept the challenge. call X0835,  the voices!!  
WANTED  232 2595  Keys $229! CocoaBeach $15911­800·678·6386  Ask for Cindy, Claudia, or Kathy. Freshman need not apply.  'Looking for GUITARIST to jam  you know what?  
Looking for a male/ female room·  with.Piease call X-4917 for more  
RIDERS NEEDED TO CT.  mate in Castle Point. $ 280 + utili·  2way plane ticket certificate  info.  hey jenl  
CALL ERIN AT x5225 SOONI  ties, For Sp/95 272-1663  $250/bo call Fang@631-6353  Yeah Lewis 4W  where is the cold beverage tape??  

• COU.EGE BASKETBALL 
Smith leads Terrapins in battle of Maryland 
Associated Press 
Joe Smith's aching feet are a thing of the past, and so is his mini-scoring slump. 
Smith had 20 points and 12 re­bounds and Exree Hipp scored 20 points as No. 11 Maryland cruised past winless Maryland­Baltimore County 102-77 Monday night. 
Smith returned from the Maui Invitational two weeks ago with a twisted right ankle and later developed a sore left foot. He scored only 12 points against Loyola (Md.) and 13 against Bucknell last week after aver­aging 2 7 in his first three games. 
On Monday, however, the 6­foot-10 sophomore made 8 of 13 shots and all four of his free throws for the 22nd double­double of his college career. 

~~-~~~-~~ 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music 

presents 
Handel's 
MESSIAH 
Thursday, Dec. 8 Friday, Dec. 9 8:00p.m. 

Washington Hall 
Tickets $6 General Admission $3 Students Available at LaFortune Box Office 


1~1~1~1-1~ 
Smith attributed his earlier scoring woes to good defense rather than his tender feet. 
"It's not a problem. My left foot is still a little swollen, but it's not a factor at all," he said. "Those other two games, they were really keying on me to deny me the ball. Then, when I got it, they double-and triple­teamed me." 
Smith had missed a few prac­tices, though, so coach Gary Williams played him longer than the rest of his starters against UMBC. 
"I wanted Joe to go a few extra minutes," Williams said. "It's good to see him play 30 min­utes. He looked OK out there tonight." 
Maryland (5-1) led by as many as 35 points in the second half en route to its 32nd consecutive non-conference home victory. Keith Booth had 16 points as the Terrapins topped the 100­point mark for a second straight game for the first time since December 1978. 
Eric Hayes scored 17 and Marc Lay 13 for UMBC (0-3), off to its worst start since opening the 1985-86 season with six straight losses. 
The Retrievers are 0-7 against the Terrapins. 
"We didn't start off well," UMBC coach Earl Hawkins said. "We dug ourselves a quick hole, and you can't do that against a team like this." 
Maryland committed a season­high 19 turnovers, including 11 in the second half. 

Kansas 91, Coppin St. 69 
The Kansas-Coppin State game could have been subtitled "Bombs Away." 
The two teams combined for 25 3-pointers as No. 4 Kansas (3-0) beat Coppin State (0-3) 91-69 Monday night. 
The two leading shooters were Kansas' Jerod Haase, who made 6-of-10 3-pointers and had 22 points, and Coppin State's Keith Carmichael, who was 10-of-20 from 3-point range and had 32 points. 
Kansas' 12 3-pointers set a school record for a single game, breaking the old mark of 11 reached seven times. 
Haase hit three 3-pointers to open the game, then missed his next three. But the transfer from California-Berkley got rolling again, scoring the first six points of the second half for Kansas on a pair of bombs. 
"We shot it well. We got off to a great start by Jerod hitting three of them and Greg (Gurley) got his legs under him tonight too," said Kansas coach Roy Williams. 
Kansas was 6-of-11 in the first half from 3-point range. 
"He's not a pure shooter. He's a streak shooter and we're working with him and he's working hard himself trying to become more consistent with his shots," Williams said. 
''I'm trying to get out of that label (of being a streak shooter) and stay on a consistent level," said Haase. ''I'm trying to be­come unstreaky and have solid games." 
Carmichael's 10 3-pointers were the most by a Kansas op­ponent this year. 
"I just took the shots that were open," said Carmichael, "and I knocked them down." 
The Eagles' 3-point barrage came despite a change in the Kansas defense. 
"For the first time in seven years, we stopped helping down on the post. We tried to stay out on their shooters and take away those threes," Williams said. 
After building a 41-32 half­time lead, Kansas opened the second half with a 25-10 run that proved to be insurmount­able. Kansas freshman Raef LaFrentz scored 16 points in his third straight game with double figures. Sean Pearson, Greg Ostertag and Gurley each added 11 points. 
Kansas guard Jacque Vaughn scored only three points but had nine assists in 28 minutes. 
"We need to play better de­fensively," said Coppin State coach Ron Mitchell. "We gave them a lot of uncontested shots. They were able to get the jumpers to go and they were patient. We need to learn from Kansas. 
''I'm proud of my team be­cause we didn't quit. We gave it everything until the end. Tonight was the first of three hard games for us. We'll need to play better the next two." 


'IME: 
9 month-12 month Leases 
Furnished Apartments, 
All Utilities Covered, Central Air 
Leasing Now for August 1995 
Make your apartment selection early! 
These apartments will feature the high,efficiency, energy,saving heat pump. 

page 12 

The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, December 6, 1994 
Raiders hold off late Charger rally, 24-1 7 

By BERNIE WILSON 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
The Los Angeles Raiders spoiled San Oiego's coming-out party Monday night, with Jeff Hostetler's 6-yard touchdown pass to Rocket Ismail with 7:23 left giving them a 24-17 victory over the Chargers. 
The Chargers (9-4) needed a victory to clinch their second AFC West title in three seasons. 
The Raiders, meanwhile, needed a victory to stay alive in the scrambled playoff picture and joined four other AFC teams with 7-6 records. 
The Chargers wore their throwback uniforms from 1961, with sky-blue jersies and white helmets with yellow lightning bolts, and a towel­waving. record crowd of 63,012 hoped to celebrate a division title. · 
But the Raiders won at Jack Murphy Stadium for the fourth 
Hoops 

continued from page 16 
each entered the game averag­ing more than 18 points per game, but combined to score just nine against the Irish. 
!me Oduok paced Loyola Marymount with 27 points, but he missed 12 free throws to keep the Irish in the game late in regulation. 
In a foul-filled game, the Lions went to the line 40 times to Notre Dame's 19. 
"It was a war," MacLeod said. "I don't think I've ever seen so many bodies flying around." 
But Notre Dame, which led until the final minute of regula­tion, managed to get up off the deck in overtime with most of its front line occupying front row seats. 
"The encouraging thing is that we responded when the pressure was on," MacLeod said. 
"We just battled and battled. Our guys were determined that they were not going to let this 
·one get away." Notre Dame returns to action Saturday against DePaul at the United Center in Chicago. 
Tradition 
continued from page 16 
"We hit a wall towards mid­
season this year, and it was dis­
appointing to us. That was a 
similar feeling to the first two 
years." 

But the end of this season 
pointed to last season. 

"At the end of the year, we 
picked it up. Just like last 
year." 

The third season provided the 
Irish with a MCC championship 
and only the second trip to the 
NCAAs for Irish soccer. · 
"The third year was similar to the second, except we got to the NCAAs this time," Richardson stated. "But we dido 't show very well in the tournament." 
The fourth and final year was supposed to be the best of them all with 12 seniors on the team and eight starting. Yet, injuries and bad luck seemed to destroy the season. 
"We expected to go further," Richardson commented. "But, we didn't live up to our expectations. Especially towards to middle of the sea­son. Yet, we pulled it together in the end." 
It is this turn around at the 
end of the season that will live 
on as an example. With devas­
tating losses piling up and a 
slumping offensive the Irish 
were on the verge of not even 
making the MCC tournament 
they were hosting. They made 
it as the last seed. 
"We could have folded it up 
and ended the season," 
Berticelli said. "But, they made 
a commitment at the end. They 
had a goal and could still 
achieve it. And they did." 
"The challenge is working through the tough time," Dean explained. "We did that this season." 
"The best times were when we did things people didn't think we could," midfielder Jean Joseph commented. "Especially this year when peo­ple wrote us off. We came together as a team to overcome adversity. Never was there a time when we didn't put in enough effort." 
"This year was so much more difficult, but also more enjoy­able," Bader added. "The se­niors came together at the end. This will leave a mark on the underclassmen. the program, the University, and the soccer world." 
time in five years. 
Ismail's second TD catch of the night came at the end of an 81-yard, nine-play drive on which Hostetler completed passes of 31 and 16 yards to Tim Brown. Ismail also caught a 6-yard scoring pass from Vince Evans in the second quarter. 
The Chargers began their fi­nal drive at their 8-yard line with 1:28 to play and got to the Los Angeles 48 before a hold­ing penalty moved them back. Aaron Wallace sacked Stan Humphries to end the game. 
The Raiders outscored San Diego 10-3 in the fourth quar­ter. The fourth quarter had been a problem for the Raiders. who had been outscored 98-49 in their 12 previous fourth periods. 
The Chargers squandered two big opportunities in the second half. 

Bengals missing Ickey shuffle 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE
By JOE KAY halftime Sunday after driving Steelers blitzed, chase him Associated Press to the Steelers' 2-yard line late across the field and forced a in the first half. Here's what pass that skipped incomplete 
TOWNHOMES 
One week, a receiver is the happened: in the end zone.
leading rusher. Another week, -First down: Derrick Fenner Pittsburgh scored the next 17

it's the quarterback. And it's 

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
puts his head down, veers right points and held the Bengals to not an aberration. 
and surges inside the 1-yard 67 yards on offense the rest of
Week after week, the 

line. A good start. the game. Blake wound up
Cincinnati Bengals mystify -Second down: Fenner leading the team in rushing

themselves with their inability 

• FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES
again, but this time he tries to with 23 yards on three scram­to run the football. They're last 
• TWO BATHROOMS
dive over the middle of the bles.
in the NFL in rushing touch­line. The Steelers push The goal-line failure was the 

• SECURITY SYSTEMS 
downs and a prime example of 
Cincinnati's line back and turning point. 

• KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
what happens to teams that 

Fenner hits a wall of bodies "That had a lot to do with it,"don't run the ball -they don't 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE win. ground. were a lot of things that hap­
and slides down. The play loses Blake said Monday. "There 
• WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT
Even with Jeff Blake's long -Third down: Fenner goes pened yesterday that people 

• GAS HEAT
passes giving them a boost, the 

right. Several Steelers over­could say broke our momen­
Bengals (2-11) still are running 

• CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING
power their blockers and meet tum." 
in place. having lost three in a 

• PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 
him at the 1. No gain. The Bengals were crestfallen row. 
"We didn't get much push or because they'd seen it all be­
• 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE
"When you don't have a run­any movement at all at the line fore. 

• ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
ning game to fall back on and of scrimmage," Shula said. No Bengals rusher has even get you some yards and burn Sometimes a back finds a hole come close to 100 yards in aoff the clock, that makes it dif­or makes a hole and that didn't game this season -Steveficult," coach Dave Shula said 

happen, either." Broussard's 65 is tops. 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR
Monday. 

On fourth down, the Bengals Receiver Darnay Scott was the
Cincinnati's 38-15 loss 

finally gave up on trying to run leading rusher one game with 
232·8256
Sunday to the Pittsburgh 

it and had Blake roll out. The 42 yards on three reverses.
Steelers was a reminder of how difficult it is to keep up when the running game can't even get a couple of yards. 
The Bengals had a chance to go into the locker room tied at 

Student Government is making an effort to see that this university stays committed to ensuring that every qualified student has the opportunity to attend Notre Dame, regardless of financial status. 
We need to know what YOU think about NO's Financial Aid, whether or not you receive any. 
Price hcJud<s TO<Ild l7i> •t11Jr• from Oicaga, f1ons. 
r.n and 7~lx>~ occonrnodotJons biJsed on qutJd 

PLEASE FILL OUT A FINANCIAL AID SURVEY TODAY
~-T•e<•enotlrrckJded. 
Counal Travel 

AND RETURN IT TO THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT
1153 N. Dearborn, 2nd Floor Chicago, IL 60610 

OFFICE OR TO THE ENVELOPE IN YOUR DORM!!!
311•951•0585 
Call for availability, prices, 

Off campus: Pick up your survey in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. 


The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
•NFL • CO!.lEG£ BASKEil?AlL 
Mirer out for rest of season Hermon's status at 
By jiM COUR 
Associated Press 
KIRKLAND, Wash. 

Rick Mirer's broken left thumb has cost him the rest of his Seattle Seahawks' season. 
A Seattle hand specialist. Dr. Stephen Fuhs, scheduled surgery for the right-handed Mirer late Monday at Seattle's Swedish Hospital. 
The Seahawks' starting quar­terback for the past 29 games will miss his team's final three regular-season games. 
"Rick's definitely out for the next two games and we're not in the playoff picture at this point," coach Tom Flores said, "so it wouldn't make sense for him to try to play in the third week." 
When the Seahawks (5-8) play at Houston (1-12) next Sunday, Mirer will miss a game for the first time in his high school, col­lege and NFL career. 
Flores said Dan McGwire, the tallest quarterback in the NFL's history at 6-foot-8, will start in Mirer's place in Seattle's final three games against Houston, the Los Angeles Raiders and Cleveland. 
After Mirer was injured in the first half of Seattle's 31-19 de­feat by Indianapolis on Sunday, McGwire replaced him. McGwire lost two fumbles, threw an interception and was sacked five times in the game. 
The Seahawks committed a season-high 13 penalties for 124 yards, and nine were charged to Seattle's offense. McGwire entered the game with the Seahawks trailing 14­
10. He was 15-for-24 for 145 yards and one touchdown. 
"It was a tough day yester­day," McGwire admitted. 
"But it's hard to throw when you're second-and-15 and sec­ond-and-20 and third-and­whatever. And we were behind." 
Mirer, 24, was hurt on a freak play. 
It happened when he threw an interception that cornerback Ray Buchanan ran back 37 yards for a touchdown with 
6:54 left in the first half. 
While attempting to stop Buchanan before he got into the end zone, Mirer was knocked down by a block by free safety Jason Belser, who then stepped on Mirer's left thumb. 
."I really didn't know until I heard from other people that saw it on the replay," Mirer said. 


Are you interested in a position on the Notre Dame campus next summer (June 26 to August 5) as a Youth Coordinator for the NCAA National Youth Sports Program? 
The position provides room and board on campus, three hours of academic credit, and a tuition stipend of $1200. Each coordinator will be in charge of a group of twenty 10-to 16-year old kids from economically disadvantaged backgrounds in our local community. These 10 positions are part of Notre Dame's overall Summer Service Program. Call Sue Cunningham at 1-7867. 
November 13, 1993 

Indiana cloudy 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Indiana basketball coach Bob Knight wouldn't comment Monday on the status of fresh­man Michael Hermon and the school refused to even say if Hermon was in practice. 
"When it is an appropriate time to make a comment on that, I'll do that," Knight said Monday night on his weekly radio show. · 
But Knight earlier had plenty to say about the guard, who skipped two days of practice last week and was not with the team for Saturday's game with Evansville. 
"Quite frankly, I don't have time to be upset with kids that have their names on their jer­seys rather than Indiana on their jerseys," Knight said on his Sunday television show, taped immediately after Saturday's 84-63 victory over Evansville. 
•
Worn®'.it•s Lat!tosse: There will be a mandatory info$Ia­tional . m ting ... this Wedn!}sday ;00 p:tn~ at Loftus. Questious, call Allison 
4-2349. 'iF No.vj.;e andoVarstty .Men's 
and Women'$ Crew: There 
will be ·a meeting Wednesday 
at 7:00 p. DeB.artolo 



Notre Dame 31 · Florida State 24 
"When a kid thinks that way, then we're the wrong place for the kid to be," he said. 
Knight said Sunday that he had not spoken to Hermon since last Tuesday's 80-79 overtime loss at Notre Dame, in which Hermon played only six minutes and had one point. 
The 6-foot-3 Hermon aver­aged 27 points and 10 rebounds a game for King High School in Chicago last season, leading his team to a 29-1 record and the nation's No. 1 ranking by USA Today. He also was named the Illinois big school player of the year by the Chicago Sun Times. 
Hermon averaged 3.8 points over the Hoosiers' first four games. 
Indiana basketball sports in­formation director Gregg Elkin said Monday's practice was closed and that he "can't con­firm or deny" whether Hermon was at practice or whether Knight had spoken to him since Sunday. 
room 129 . Fiesta Bowl: Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student tickets will go on sale Wednesday 
and Thursday from 8:00a.m. Jo 5 p.m. at gate 10 of the 
J.A.C.C. Each-student may bring up to 4 IDs. Tickets will be $40. Cash and checks will be accepted. No credit cards. The game is Jan. 2 in Tempe. Arizona at 2:30 p.m. 
litiSI I IMPA:e't' II 
RlElTIVlE 1lHlE 1lRTIUMJPH~ ~ ~ November 13, 1993... #1 vs. #2... The Game of the Century... cap­tured in a full-color poster depict­ing the Irish defense shutting down the Seininoles. Irish Impact II post­ers now available at the Bookstore, the LaFortune Info Desk, and the South Bend Center for the Hoine­less. Only $10 each. Makes a great holiday gift! 

A.ll proceeds benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless 
Advertisement space donated by Notre Dame Student Government 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 6, 1994 
• HOCKEY STRIKE 
• BASEBAll STRIKE 

NHL talks near compromise Players willing to 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Though no major issues were resolved when NHL labor ne­gotiations resumed Monday, there were signs that signifi­cant movement-and not all of it favorable in terms of saving the season -could be coming soon. 
The sides appeared ready to compromise on rookie salary cap and free agency issues fol­lowing six hours of talks Monday, The Canadian Press reported. But those agreements might become moot if the own­ers bring their contentious "luxury tax" to the table when talks pick up Tuesday. 
"We keep hearing that the league will bring out some kind of tax," said Bob Goodenow, NHL Players Association execu­tive director. 
"We've been negotiating for weeks as if there is no tax. If there is, it will be very difficult to get an agreement." 
The tax, which would punish teams that sign free agents and which the union considers a salary cap, hadn't been part of recent negotiations. But it has remained in the owners' play­book, ready to be brought out at any time. 
The players have said they will reject any agreement that includes a salary cap for veter­ans. 
Citing unidentified sources from both management and union sides, the CP said the 
sides tentatively agreed that the rookie salary cap would be $1 million for first-round picks, a figure that would index upward as league salaries escalate. 
The Canadian news service also said players would become unrestricted free agents at 30 years old and that the franchise player provision would be dropped. 
The CP said, however, that none of these points was com­pleted. An Associated Press management source said "none of the major items were checked off." 
Neither Goodenow nor NHL commissioner Gary Bettman would comment on what was accomplished Monday. 
"It's not like a weather report -good, bad or indifferent, sunny or cloudy," Goodenow said. "It's ongoing." 
Said Bettman: "I don't want to get into handicapping whether or not there's progress, what issues are on the table or off the table or in the table. As long as the process is ongoing, that's better than if it's not." 
Friday, the process screeched to a halt. The sides met for only about an hour before going their separate ways. 
The two-day break simply a!ded to the sense of urgency. A collective bargaining agree­ment probably has to be in place within two weeks if there is to be a 1994-95 season. 
"The fact is, time is getting short; there's no magic or se­cret in that," Bettman said. "We're going to have to get 


kinko·s~ 
the copy center 

something done (soon) if we're going to save the season." 
"Both sides are well aware of what's at stake here," Goodenow said. "The schedule is what it is, time is what it is, the calendar is what it is." 
The 66-day lockout began Oct. 1, the scheduled first day of the season, and already has caused each team to miss 24 games. 
Joining the talks Monday at Bettman's request was Chicago Blackhawks general manager Bob Pulford, who back in 1967 was the first NHLPA president. 
''I'm glad he did," said Bettman, the owners' lead ne­gotiator. "Somebody with his credentials -and the fact he was a former president of the PA -I find it helpful having him at my side." 
Pulford said that in all his years in hockey, he has never been as discouraged. 
"Everyone is paid very well in this sport," he said, "and I'm disappointed this happened." 
The owners' willingness to pay more and more money for players brought about the lock­out. 
In exchange for more liberal­ized free agent rules, they want the players to agree to restric­tions that will help the owners protect themselves from each other's spending habits. 
Currently, the NHL has no true free agency. 
The players' chief concession came last week, when they agreed to a rookie salary cap. 
Salary arbitration rules are rr===================:=========;] 
another primary sticking point. 
Outperforming the 

never play again 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
Roger Clemens, Cecil Fielder and 76 other striking players vowed Monday never to give in to owners -even if it means sitting out next season and pos­sibly not playing again. 
In the largest meeting of ma­jor leaguers since the strike began Aug. 12, players opened a three-day session by reiterat­ing their solidarity. 
"We will never back down," Texas pitcher Kevin Brown said. 
"There's a good chance at this point that we're not going to be playing baseball in 1995," Milwaukee pitcher Bob Scanlan said. "I have to make decisions based on this assumption." 
Clemens and New York Mets pitcher John Franco said play­ers also talked about the chance that the strike would wipe out their careers. 
"We're prepared to do what­ever it takes," said Clemens, Boston's three-time Cy Young Award winner. 
Whether it's rhetoric or the real thing, players came out of their five-hour meeting talking tough. 
And once again, there was not a single crack in the union stance. In recent weeks, even management officials have complimented the union's uni­fied public front. 
"1 think the meeting made us much more solid," Atlanta out­fielder David Justice said. 
"We have to hand out a lot of resumes. If we have to work, we have to work," Mets third baseman Bobby Bonilla said. "It's going to get worse before it gets better. People are going to have to understand that." 
Union head Donald Fehr said much of the week will be spent developing a counterproposal to the owners' payroll tax plan ofNov. 17. 
The sides are scheduled to resume negotiations Friday in Hye Brook, N.Y., but some play­ers said they did not think it made any difference what new offer was made. 
"Whatever we come up with, 1 don't think it matters," Atlanta's Jeff Blauser said. "I think they've already shown that they've had in mind to im­pose the salary cap." 
Owners, who postponed a meeting scheduled for Monday, are now planning to meet late next week, probably Thursday in Chicago. They say they will impose their own system, which includes a cap and the elimination of salary arbitra­tion, if there is no settlement by then. 

As w~ f\L'-\(Mcw,T\-1£ 
f·\lJ ft1Ar< l3ot>'1 NEE."D'S A-r 
1.-E.M-r E•~H-r Hov~>-S Or:. SLE-E-p To 
FvNCTION 
1>11-0PE.i<.L'j Tl-1·~ \-; lm po~TA<"T To l<e:rnE.ft1BEII. 
WHIL£ 
lllf\NIMII'I~ 
CALVIN AND HOBBES l't" WRITING !v\i CI\R\5~S LIST, 1-\0BB'\:.S! sl\oiJLO r i\OD f..~'IT\-\1~ toR YoiJ 7 
DILBERT 
I'l"\ PUTTING YOU IN CHARGE. OF GE.TTING 
The Observer· TODAY DAVE KELLETT 
~ou kr<•w,lr ~·v Li\iDOr-< ~ovR "'51\C.~ 1'\Nl> FILL~t"> ~0\ll'l NA\JE.l \JJ1TI-\ \.\oo· W11-rCR, AN<S (ovc.D 
U::.0 h As A 

BILL WATTERSON 
IT f'IIIJST BE S"-D Bt:ING
l'IJE GOT ~ GOOD 1-\0MI::. 
A SI'ECit.S WIT\-\ SO
Al-\0 t.. BE'SI rR\EI-ID. W\1t>.T 
LITTLE 1!'-AAC:.\N!I.T\ON.
ti\OR£ C01JLI:J P.. TIGER Wt.NT? 
I 
---:~ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
I Tt-IINK IT CERTIFIES THAT WE FOLLOW A 


WE DON'T KNOW WHAT IT1 IS BUT IT 

page 15 THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"You ever get that urge, Frank? It begins with looking down from 50 stories up, thinking about the meaninglessness of life, listening to dark voices deep inside you, and you think, 'Should I? ... Should I? .•• Should I push someone off?'" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Overhead lighting?
t They rank 34 Salt Lake City above Pfc.'s 
player5 Address for a 35 Lacking, with lady "of" 9 Lamb servings 37 Hecklers't4 "Whoops" 

missiles t5"-You" 
38 "Get lost!" 

(Platters hit) 4t Drama award t6 Protection 42 Tsetses 
t 1 Metric prefix 44 Rhoda's mom, 
ta Tetley products 
in 70's TV t9 Stag-party 
45 Part of a paper

attendees 
roll 20 Many a Fifth 
46 Countdown 

Avenue habitue 
start 23 Yevtushenko's 
47 Nightclub

"Babi--" 
gadabout24 ---of March 
51 Role for 25 Young faddist Leontyne 30 Toy gun ammo 52 Sloppy-
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE E L 1 z A Is'Eiils o M s 
MYGAL ACCE LUNAR M 0 0 N L I G~ 
T s 0 N A T A 

A N 
T E.AU D I T S A I L 
A M P E R E S 
ACROSS R 
ICSE TA 
I NT.GOSHPACHE 0 N 
I NC E A B L U E 
MO 
0 N 

PEE "«E~O V ED
STAN 
ASSESS MOSLEMS 
ORE 0 C 
T A N E. E T C I N C A 
T H E M~ N 
T H E M 0 0 N T E 
N E T D 0~~ G A M I N EROS IS~ 
OMENS 
~'--­

53 Stovetop appliance 59 Life-Jacket innards 60 Noodle 6t Commercial endorsement 63 Harsh 64 "Mystery" host Diana 65 Adm. Zumwalt 66 Snappish 67 Give--up (assist) 68 Engrossed 
DOWN 
t Cow's chew 2 "That was close!" 3 Mathematical sets of points 4 Rudolph has one s Tourist 
transport 6 Once more 1 Voiced sigh a Gershwin-Weill 
ballad 
9 Park patrons to Piles t t Girl-watch 12 Fishing site 13 Draft org. 21 24 hours 22 Poem of praise 25lt's a steal 26 Two under par 27 Illinois city 43 Remain loyal to 55 Diamond of 

48 Hubbub fame 49 Ms. Streisand 56 Summon 50"AI/ey-" 
57 Fitzgerald of st To the lett, to scat Bligh 
58 Roast cut 
53 Stride 59 "Krazy
54 Unlocks, to Milton 62 Understood 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
NORTHft: CQpntry Fried Steak Codw/Herbs Cheese Enchilada SOUTH BBQ Ribs Seafood Me!lley Stir-Fry Pasta Primavera 

28 How some stocks are sold: Abbr. 29 Jeopardy JOAppear suddenly Jt Payola 32 Have the helm 36 It makes salsa picante 39 "Fables in Slang" author 40 Bridge alternative 
.. 
AlBROJBHCS 


NEW & IMPROVED YOGACHALLENGE U AEROBIC SIGN-UPS 

Mondays, Janurary 23 -March 6 6:30-7:45 p.m.
WILL BEGIN 

Wednesdays, January 25-March 8 6:30 -7:45 p.m.TUESDAY, JANUARY 17 
TAICHI at 7:30a.m. 
Tuesdays, January 24 -March 7 6:30 -7:30 p.m.in the hallway just south of the Thursdays, January 25-March 9 6:30-7:30 p.m. RecSports office LOOK FOR THE NEW SCHEDULE SIGN-UPS BEGIN 
' 

VERY SOON! TUESDAY, JANUARY 17 7:30a.m. 
631-6100 
........ , ................... -..... -..... 
-

SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, December 6, 1994 
Taylor, Holden suspended for Fiesta Bowl 


Observer S1aiT Repon 
As if facing Colorado and ex­plosive wide rnceiver Michael Westbrook wasn't difficult tmough, try defending him without your best cornerback. 
That is exactly what the Notrn Dame football team will do whnn they face the fourth­ranknd Buffaloes in the Fiesta Bowl on January 2. 
Notre Dame announced yes­terday that Bobby Taylor, a ju­nior cornerback and Germaine Holden, a senior defensive end will each serve a one-game sus­pension for a violation of both University and NCAA rules. 
The penalty resulted from compensation they accepted in an attempt to make tickets available to a fellow student for the November 26 Notre Dame­USC football game. 
"We were trying to help a stu­dent who was traveling to Los Angeles and wanted to attend the game. but we made a poor decision in accepting compen­sation," Holden said. 

While they will not be able to attend the game both wished the team luck, and Taylor com­mented on his future. 
"We wish the team the best of luck against Colorado. I look forward to re-joining the team for the 1995 season," he said. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz com­mented only briefly about the suspensions. 
"Bobby and Germaine have been a pleasure to coach, and we will miss them in Tempe," he said. 
Taylor is an All-American and is the anchor to the Irish pass defense. 
He has 43 tackles this season, one interception, and had a touchdown off a fumble recov­ery against Florida State. 
Holden's role was limited for much of the season after start­ing the first game against Northwestern, but he returned to the first team in the final two games against Air Force and Southern Cal. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek The Irish will be without their best defensive back, Bobby Taylor. 

• 


C
oming to Notre Dame they knew of 
the tradition. They understood the 
special honor of Irish athletics, and its pressure. 
"There's a feeling when you step onto the field in a Notre Dame uniform," mid­fielder Jason Fox explained. "There's a reputation and tradition to uphold. You also establish tradition playing at Notre Dame." 
"It is a privilege, a honor and a great opportunity," defender Chris Dean 
addt~d. 
They succeeded in upholding the tradi­tion and added some more of their own. 
"We eame to a school known for tradi­tion," goalkeeper Bert Bader said. "Doing so, you put yourself in a position to establish tradition. Now we ean see a legaey. our mark left behind, and tell oth­ers to improve upon it." 
"We progressed the program to a new leVf~l." Dean added. "And it can still go farther." 
When Notre Dame men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli took over the program in 1990 he understood the rebuilding pro­ject he had before him. After four years the program has reached new heights, consecuti~e NCAA appearances and con­secutive MCC championships. 
Tradition Made 
Seniors Jason Fox (left) and Tim Oates (right) feel they have left a mark at Notre Dame. 
By TOM SCHLIDT 
One only has to look at this class of seniors to understand why the program has grown as it has. 
"This is my first class of recruits," Berticelli said. "The success of the pro­gram has to be directed them and their commitment to the program. They made it a nationally respected program." 
Every year provided new experiences for the seniors. 
The first two years provided a founda­tion. The introduction to new people and teammates, and a new level of play. It was also a time for the players to set goals for themselves and the program. 

"The first year we all had new team­mates," Richardson said. "We spent the year learning about playing with each other. The second year we set goals, and learned how to deal with failure." 
"The first two years there was no pres­sure," Bader added. "We were the underclassmen. They were building block years." 
Fox saw some similarities between this last year and the first. 
see TRADITION I page12 
Goalkeeper Bert Bader holds the career save record at Notre Dame. 
Irish prevail in overtime 
By JASON KELLY Associa1e Sports Editor 
Keith Kurowski couldn't have scripted it any better. 
He enjoys nothing more than being on the free throw line with the game in the balance. That's where he found himself Monday, in the final seconds of Notre Dame's 76-73 overtime win over Loyola Marymount in Los Angeles. 
With the Irish leading 74-73 with 10 seconds left. Kurowski stepped to the line and calmly sank a pair of foul shots to seal Notre Dame's third win of the season. 
It came just two days after a demoralizing loss to San Diego that deflated Notre Dame's soaring spirit after last week's upset of Indiana. 
But the Irish quickly redis­covered the roots of their suc­cess and left Los Angeles satis­fied with their resurgence. 
"To be able to win on the road with all the adversity we've had, that's encourag­ing," Irish coach John MacLeod said. 
Kurowski Jed Notre Dame with 19 points and Hyan Hoover added 15. Freshmen Derek Manner and Pat Garrity had 10 each. 
Manner seored six of those 10 in overtime, while front line players Matt Gotsch, Marcus Young and Garrity watched from the sidelines after fouling out in regulation. 
"Derek Manner had one huge game," MacLeod said. "You talk about a player who gives you a good solid effort every time out. He proved that he is going to be one fine Notre Dame basketball player." 
Notre Dame's defense hand­cuffed two of the Lions' leading scorers. Forwards Mike O'Quinn and Wyking Jones 
see HOOPS/ page 12 

of note . ..
MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL 

Notre Dame women's soccer 
Raiders race by the Chargers for an 

midfielder Cindy Daws has been 
early lead and a 24-17 victory. 

elected as one of four finalists 
, See page 12 
for Player of the Year. 





