
--~-~-­
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS 
Presidents work to keep promises 
The Dead may not come, but fun is still the issue 
By KATE CRISHAM Assistant News Editor 
As candidates, Dave Hungeling and Matt 
ran on platform to dissolve student RN<HU•~~na.•f provide students with free football tickets, and the Grateful Dead to campus. 
As the elected student body President and President, however, they were forced to temper original proposals into more attainable goals, such making student government more efficient, staging major concert, and making Notre Dame a more fun and enjoyable university to attend. And the Hungeling-Orsagh presidency may not have been quite as· long or strange a trip as many might have expected, it has proved an enjoyable ride nonetheless. 
"Even though we knew we couldn't be the same nr•nar•<>m and vice-president as we were candidates, we wanted to re"ff.lltil_......_._ some of the stuff a shot," said Hungeling. "Some of the things were pret­ty far-fetched, but we just mainly wanted to restrict the unnecessary parts of student government and focus on the stuff more students would ap­preciate." 
Salad dressing, yogurt no longer in forefront 
By lAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's News Editor 

Ten months following the last student govern­
t election at Saint Mary's, what students most from the winning ticket of Student sident Noha El-Ganzouri and Vice 
of Academic Affairs and College Relations 1n""''""" Peters is the issue of frozen yogurt and salad dressing selections. Although the humor of the debate still creates chuck­
around campus, in actuality El-Ganzouri and Peters have worked to have a much greater impact at Saint Mary's than just providing exotic yogurt flavors for the 
student body's collective sweet tooth. "We are looking at a much bigger picture than yogurt could ever be," said El-Ganzouri. "I hope that people realize that ..-11111__.,. this was not what our job is about." In actuality, according to El-Ganzouri, the topic of yogurt and salad dressings only was addressed at the debates in response to a dining hall improvement question from the floor. 
Indeed, the midpoint of the adminis­
tration finds the majority of the duo's T T p • d t • I A 1• h t 
goals either accomplished or planned for I op I en resl en 18 ccomp IS men s 
the second semester. According to Hungeling, one of the primary accomplish­ments has been organizing the student government bud­get more efficiently. 
"We've been frugal. espe­cially on administrative costs like phone bills, copy cards, and events like freshman orientation," he said. 
see DEAD I page 4 
Hungeling/Orsagh 
1. 
Purchase of life size Fabio for $25. 

2. 
Board of Trustees Report on cable in dorms. 

3. 
Free candy on Halloween. 

4. 
Improved relations with administration. 

5. 
Increased sociability of Matt Orsagh. 


courtesy of ND student government 


EI-Ganzou ri/Peters 
1. 
Examination of social space. 

2. 
Meeting student demands. 

3. 
Calendar. 

4. 
Clubhouse activities. 

5. 
Underclassmen information book. 


courtesy of Saint Mary's student government 

Yogurt was never part of the for mal election platform. What was on their agenda was legitimate concerns 
including examining student social space, increased student input and monthly campus cal­endar. 
In their term in office so far the most notable effort of the entire student government has been the inquiry into improving student social space at Haggar College Center. 
This fall, Board of Governance 
see SMC I page 4 


Day of Women to be at Snite 
By AMY SCHMIDT 
News Writer 
Celebrating the lives and works of women from the South Bend area, the Snite Museum of Art is presenting the Fifth Annual Day of Women. 
According to Diana Matthias. assistant professional specialist at the Snite, they will be pre­senting a group of participants who discuss what is precious to them, 
Jointly sponsored by the mu­seum, Notre Dame's English department and the Alice Tully Endowment for the Fine Arts, the 1994 event will focus on the theme "Telling Stories." This year's "Day of Women" is the fifth celebration of its kind in the past four years, accord­ing to Matthias. 
She stressed the importance of this yearly event, saying that the "Day of Women" fills the gap created by the predomi­nantly male artistry present in the Snite. Matthias strongly urges Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to attend the event. 
"It is a great way to learn about what local women are doing and thinking, and how they perform," said Matthias. 
In addition to stories told in poetry, fiction, journalism, mu­sic and song, personal stories and dance, there will also be a segment on religious work. 
"This is a way for us to know what active religious women are doing," she said. 
Courtesy of Diana Matthias/The Observer Padma Rajagopal demonstrates a dance segment of the Fifth Annual Day of Women to be held at The Snite Museum of Art Saturday. 
Although attendance in the past has been primarily female, Matthias says that the event is open to anyone who may be in­terested. She expects a turnout of approximately 500 people, an increase from the crowd of about 300 last year. Matthias feels that the inclement weath­er last year prevented many 

ND professor testifies in trial of John Rita 

ByDAVE TYLER News Editor 
A University of Notre Dame professor was among the wit­nesses to testify for the defense yesterday at the trial of John Rita, the Notre Dame law school graduate who is accused of causing a death while driving drunk, and leaving the scene of an accident in connection with the November 1993 death of freshman Mara Fox. 
Defense lawyer Charles Asher began building his cased with experts who disputed the pros­ecution version of the fatal crash. Raymond Brach, an as­sistant professor of mechanical engineering at Notre Dame, de­scribed for the court where he thought the crash impact oc­curred. 
Other experts offered conflict­ing testimony about the amount of alcohol the defendant had to drink on the night of November 12, and attempted to discredit the breath test machines au­thorities used. 
Rita, 25, had a blood alcohol content of .14 percent when he was tested three hours after the crash by an Indiana state trooper on a lntoxilizer ma­chine at the St. Joseph County Jail. The Indiana legal limit is .10 percent. 
Brach told the court that he believed that Fox was on the pavement at the time she was struck by the right front corner of Rita's car. He said his recon­struction showed Fox moved almost in a straight line with the car. This movement would be consistent with the car and pedestrian being almost in line at the time of the crash. 
Brach testified that he be­lieved the right front corner of Rita's car struck the back of Fox's thighs which threw her backwards and caused her to strike her head on the lower right side of the windshield. Brach also said it was possible that the impact caused Fox to fall of the side of the car. 
Brach's testimony contra­dicted that of prosecution wit­ness Sergeant David Hoffman. The St. Joseph County police officer said that he believed Fox was most likely walking on the shoulder of the road when she was hit. Hoffman estimated that Fox was at least four inch­es on the shoulder at the time of the accident. Fox's compan­ions testified that they walked to the right of the painted line as they made their way back to campus on the early morning of November 13. 
Asher began Rita's defense with Walter Frajola, a retired Ohio State University professor of biochemistry, who doubted the credibility of the machine and test used to measure Rita's blood alcohol level when he was arrested. 
see TRIAL I page;4t 
people from attending. 

"This event is special because it focuses on the issues, arts, and lives of women in our com­munity," Matthias said. 
The Fifth Annual Day of Women will be presented Sat­urday in the Annenburg Audi­torium from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 

• 
f 
l J 
• INSIDE COUJMN 
Say




Cheese! 
It's inevitable. It hap­pens every weekend at SYR's, parties, tailgaters, and the like. Someone always brings a camera. It all begins when they say, "Smile and say cheese." At the time it sounds harmless, so we 

do exactly that. We put on these enor­mous grins and stick our  Patti Carson Saint Mary's Accent  
faces as close as possible  Editor  
to  the  camera  lens.  

Better yet, we grab anyone within three feet and throw our arms around them like they are a long lost brother or sister, when in reali­ty, they are complete strangers. Yep, the camera makes us do some funny things, folks. 
We pose, staring at the camera in anticipa­tion of the flash which blinds us for two to three minutes afterward. The most popular pose seems to be the close-up one with two people squishing their faces togther . Or per­haps it is the self portrait, where six or so people huddle together and hold the camera up in the air to catch their group on film. It all seems like so much fun at the time. 
But then we get the pictures developed. Perhaps my dismay upon developing my last batch of pictures stems from the fact that I am neither a skilled photographer nor am I very photogenic. In any case, pictures are worth a thousand words. 
We paid nearly twenty dollars for triple prints of the pictures from our last SYR. Big mistake. Probably a direct result of dancing, everyone appeared to be slightly perspiring in these pictures. And a majority of the people in the pictures were aqinting as to avoid a solar eclipse. 
My favorite picture was the one with some guy posing so obnoxiously as to reveal his entire dentition. I'd venture to say that we had a completely panoramic view of his mouth, since he purposely stuck his mouth very near to the lens. Every tooth could be counted. Sometimes I wonder how he man­aged to pose like that, and why. 
This brings me to the worst case scenario: Someone at the party brings a camera and takes pictures of you that you'll never see . Later, someone will say to you," We have the funniest picture of you in our room." And you just know someone has pinned it up on his or her wall to serve as a source of amusement for all who pass there. 
This situation often results in blackmail, extortion, and those birthday ads in the news­paper. Then come the pains associated with trying to get these photographs out of the evil hands of the photographer and back into the safety of your own. 
As luck would have it, the video camera is also becoming increasingly popular on cam­pus. My roommate received one for her birth­day and recently recorded a tailgater and a SYR. Upon viewing these films, we were suffi­ciently entertained because people do and say even sillier things when they are being recorded live. Some people will even sing and dance. If you ever have access to a video camera, take it to a weekend activity-I guar­antee that it will serve as a source of future amusement. 
Don't get me wrong. Cameras can be great and you shouldn't necessarily shy away from them. Just don't get carried away. It may come back to haunt you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production Gwendolyn Norgle Susan Marx Liz Foran Kira Hutchinson 
Sports Accent RianAkey Tom Roland 
Viewpoint Graphics Suzy Fry Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are .reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

More white women are smoking as black women say no 
ATLANTA 
Young black women have vir­tually given up smoking while more young white women are lighting up, ending what had been a quarter-century decline in the number of female smokers, the government reported Thursday. 
In 1965, one in three women smoked. Since then, there has been a steady drop in the rate of female smokers. That decrease suddenly stopped in 1991, largely because more white women ­particularly young ones -are smoking, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
"We've clearly lost our momentum with getting young white women not to smoke," said Michael Eriksen, director of the CDC's Office on Smoking and Health. "It's quite a contrast to young African-American women, where they're virtually giving up the habit." 
Among women ages 18-44, the rate of cigarette smoking rose from 25.6 percent in 1990 to 26.7 percent in 1991, and to 26.9 per­cent in 1992, according to an annual survey by the CDC. Preliminary evidence shows little change since then. 
The rate of white female smok­ers rose from 26.5 percent in 1990 to 28.6 percent in 1992. 

Bush-Perot feud behind Richards 
DALLAS 

Maybe it's just that one's a twang­talkin' Texan and the other a preppie Connecticut import. Maybe it's a lot more complicated. Whatever the rea­son, it's obvious Ross Perot and George Bush dislike each other. A lot. "If he were a roach in the Bush household, they'd step on him in a New York second," University of Houston political scientist Richard 

Murray said. The bad blood has spilled in public again, with Perot endorsing Democratic Gov. Ann Richards in her bid for re-election against Bush's eldest son, Republican George W. Bush. In radio ads the Dallas bil­lionaire made for Richards, Perot calls Bush "a nice young man with no experience for the job." 

Monkeys used for therapy research 
MADISON, Wis. 
Scientists working with monkeys have taken a crucial step toward a new kind of gene therapy in which tissue such as bone and blood could one day be grown in the laboratory and used to cure diseases in humans. The researchers isolated for the first time embryonic mon­key cells known as stem cells. In 2-4 years, the cells could lead to the creation of genetically altered mon­keys with illnesses that mimic human diseases such as AIDS and multiple sclerosis. That may advance the study of those diseases. In the longer term, scientists may be able to isolate stem cells in humans and grow those cells in the laboratory. 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
Friday, Nov. 4 Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 4. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
VIa AssoclatBtl PffiB8 


Atlanta 74 Baltimore 71 Boston 65 Chicago 68 Coldwater 87 


The rate for blacks went from 22.8 percent in 1990 to 28.1 percent in 1991, then back to 22.6 percent in 1992. Researchers say they don't know how to explain the sharp rise then decline, except that it could be a statis­tical blip. 
Rates for Hispanic women remained about the same, at 18.9 percent, from 1990 to 1992. 
The racial difference was even greater among young women ages 18 to 24. 
The rate for young white women remained unchanged at about 27 per­cent between 1987 and 1992. But for young black women it plunged -from 
21.8 percent in 1987 to 5.9 percent in 1992. Researchers said they couldn't fully explain the sharp drop. 
"There's some evidence that white women used smoking for weight control and blacks don't appear to do that," said Dr. Kathryn Silbersiepe, a CDC epi­demiologist. 
The statistics show that tobacco advertising campaigns aimed at young white women are working, Silbersiepe said. 
She said the agency needs to learn how better to reach whites with its warnings about cigarettes. 
In another report, the CDC said the number of Americans who favor restricting or even banning smoking in public places, particularly where teen­
AP/Terry Kole agers gather, is increasing. 

Women's aerobic maximum is high 
WASHINGTON 

Researchers may have underestimated the aerobic potential of older women. Top-level older female ath­letes do as well in comparison to untrained women in their age group as top-level older male athletes do in comparison to untrained men, a study of aerobic condi­tioning has found. The researchers looked at a key building block of endurance -the body's ability to use oxygen in muscle. In both sexes, elite trained athletes had about 85 percent higher aerobic capacity, on aver­age, than their untrained counterparts, said the report in the American Physiological Society's Journal of Applied Physiology. That's greater than previous research had shown for older women, said Edith T. Stevenson, a research associate at the Human Cardiovascular Physiology Laboratory at the University of Colorado in Boulder. 

Bazooka shell explodes in classroom 
FOLKSTON, Ga. 

A high school student who brought a bazooka shell to school dropped it in a classroom and it exploded Thursday. At least 12 students were injured, emergency workers said. The seriousness of the injuries was not immediately known. Jed Norton, an emergency worker from Irwin County, said the explosion occurred at Charlton County High School, just north of Jacksonville, Fla. He said the student had told classmates moments before that the shell was harmless. 
47 Dallas 83 65 New York 70 46 38 Los Angeles 68 53 Philadelphia 69 40 45 Miami 85 72 Phoenix 66 61 54 Minneapolis 43 41 St. Louis 79 71 88 New Orleans 83 68 Wethersfield 80 81 



Friday, November 4, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 


Still substantial gaps in talks 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

An Israeli diplomat corrobo­rated President Clinton's claim that he gained some conces­sions in his meeting with Syrian President Hafez Assad last week. But the ambassador described the shifts Thursday as marginal. 
In fact, Ambassador ltamar Rabinovich told reporters at a luncheon, there are substantial gaps between Israel and Syria more than three years after peace talks opened. 
Working through the United States, Israel and Syria are ex­changing proposals for a peace treaty. The central issues are control of the Golan Heights, peace terms and security along the border between the two ad­versaries. 
Assad is still demanding that Israel surrender all of the strategic Golan. But he sent Israel an offer through Clinton that would give Israel a few more months than initially pro­posed to implement the pullout, Rabinovich said. 
Israel, while refusing to com­mit itself to total withdrawal, is proposing to pull out over sev­eral years. "Now the gap is smaller," but the Israelis still want more time, Rabinovich said. 
Rabinovich also credited Assad with publicly offering normal relations to Israel by 

name. In January, in his first meeting with Clinton, Assad spoke generally of having a commitment to peace with other nations in the Middle East. 
Rabinovich said the fact that it took 10 months for Assad to speak directly about peace with Israel showed how slow the peacemaking process really is. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher plans to return to the area around Dec. 1 to try to narrow differences even fur­ther, Rabinovich said. The sixth Christopher trip to Jerusalem and Damascus this year will fol­low talks in Washington be­tween Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Clinton be­fore Thanksgiving. 

Breen-Phillips Hall Chapel Celebrante 
Padre Dan Groody, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
IMI All Are Welcome 
0fv1PUS Sponsored bv 
Campus Ministry 
MNISTRY Coro Prlmwera de Nuestro Sailora 


1153 N. Dearborn 
Chicago, IL 60610 
(312) 951-0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 
Look At What 
$295 
Can Get You: 
• 
AGreat One-Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(Efficiencies from $280, T..w Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Spar1ding Pool and Sundeck 

• 
Beautiful Clubhouse 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Laundry Facilities 

• 
Cable TV Available 

• 
Close to Great Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance 


2'l2-1880 
IT~/
1-t-DOUGLAS-+/--1--1 
~ '~~~"; ~ 

v lll,.. 
0 
-EDISON-llj---t--1 
~ 
1-f----f-::tMcKINLEY-t-­JEFFERSON I 
Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
rHICKORij . 
VILLAC3Efj 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 


University Park Mall 
Students! Come in and get your 10% off Student Discount Card. Good for 10% offany purchase.* 
Mention this ad and receive an additional 10% offyour purchase of Hair Care Products. 

Offer Expires 11111/94 *Discount is not good for Nexxus Products, Electrical Appliances and 32oz. Sizes. 


would have ranged from .07
Administration responded 
to .11 percent, not allowing for favorably to the report.

Dead SMC Trial 
dissipation.
Student Government is cur­At the time of Rita's arrestcontinued from page 1 rently working on a report to continued from page 1 continued from page 1 

three hours later, the levelbe given in the spring on 

"Because of that. we'll have a would have been do\vn to .006
scholarship and financial aid (BOG) distributed a survey to 
lot more money to spend on fun opportunities. student body to find out what Frajola said that in his opin­six percent. Frajola based his numbers on earlier testimony. 
things and the concert." Despite these accomplish­students thought about the ion, machines such as the In­While the possibility of a ments, both Hungeling and existing space and how they toxilizer which measure blood Prosecutor Micheal Barnes Grateful Dead show at Notre Farmer agreed that one of the would like it to change. alcohol content with a breath asked Dr. Rick Hoover. a 
forensic pathologist and toxi­Dame has been officially laid to most impressive achievements Of the one-third of the total sample, "are not a reliable 

rest, student government will cology expert to testify about
has been the acquisition of a student body who responded to way of to get true blood alco­sponsor a concert in the spring, life-size Fabio cardboard cutout the survey approximately 80 hol content.' his own calculations. 
either individually or in 

for the student government percent said that they didn't An expert on measuring al­
conjunction with the Student Working backwards from the
office. think that Haggar was a social cohol levels, Frajola asserted 
Union Board. Intoxilizer result, Hoover esti­
"The moment I laid eyes on space because there is not a that a blood test is the only 
mated that a 185 pound man"The concert has always Fabio, I knew we had to have place to congregate without way to get a true blood alco­

been pretty much the main goal would have to consume be­
him," said Hungeling. "He re­finding a organized group in hol level. we've been working towards," ally adds a lot to the decor and the space. Frajola also questioned the tween seven and three quar­
ters, and 12 and one quarter

said Hungeling. "The grad stu­overall attitude of the office." According to El-Ganzouri, accuracy of the whole machine dent in charge is still in the Hungeling also noted that in many other campus' have after citing printing errors in beers between 8:30 p.m. and 
process of contracting various midnight to test at .14 percent
working to make Notre Dame a social student union facilities the test results. 
at 3:30 a.m. Those number

bands to play, and we'll hope­more fun place, certain student and both students have Asher then asked Frajola to fully be able to announce some­government officers, including expressed an interest in having perform calculations to show would translate to a blood 
thing before Thanksgiving." alcohol level between .15 and
Orsagh. have become more fun such a place at Saint Mary's. Rita's possible blood alcohol 
.17 percent at the time of the

Hungeling and Orsagh have to be around. "Originally, we wanted a content at the time of the 
not done away with all vestiges accident, said Hoover. 
"Matt Orsagh has become facility with a video rental crash. of Student Government. The about a thousand times more store, Taco Bell, and a dry Using the assumption he had 
Guide, a student handbook to At that level, Hoover contin­
social since the election," he cleaner but we had to be more three and one half beers and a various courses, will be dis­said. "He's become a lot less realistic," she said. "We have shot of liqueur in three and ued, a driver would experi­
tributed next week. In addi­enced impaired driving skill,
tense and much easier to be challenging goals ahead but we one half hours, Frajola said 
including weakened peripheraltion, other committees have around." must start with small goal." Rita's blood alcohol level formed under the auspices of vision.

"It could be that Orsagh is In conjunction with the issue the Campus Life Council to using his position as Vice Presi­of social space, Student 
investigate increasing the dent to woo women," said Government is pushing for 

amount of study space on cam­

Farmer. "I really hope that more involvement and activities pus, re-vamping the correct isn't the case, because one of at the Saint Mary's Clubhouse. 
football ticket policy, and devel­

our platform statements was "Students don't realize that 
oping a more efficient system of that student government can't the Clubhouse was built for year-end room inspections and 

get you dates." them," said El-Ganzouri. 
breakdown. 

While Hungeling stated that In the election platform for "Things have been going he believes that Notre Dame El-Ganzouri and Peters they
really well, the place hasn't has become a "looser, more proposed a monthly campusexploded or anything," said fun" place during his tenure in calendar including all campus
Hungeling. "In fact, the 

office, Orsagh disagreed. events. Recently such a calen­
Administration seems to be 
"Notre Dame isn't, but we dar has been installed near the 
honestly listening to us and 
are more fun and that's all we Student Activities office. 
respecting the work that we've were concerned about in the Possibly the biggest problembeen doing." 

first place," he said. "Our El-Ganzouri has faced to date is 
Student Government recently friends· might be having more simply getting BOG to work submitted a report to the Board fun because we are able to give together to accomplish goals. of Trustees recommending the them free stuff from student installation of cable in dorm 
government and positions to fill rooms. Hungeling and Farmer their resumes with." both said the Trustees and the 


Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. 
*Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! No service fee! Timetables, prices, tickets available! 
*Car Rentals Discounted car rentals! Available in all European Countries! 
*Experience Over 20 years experience work~ng with Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. 
We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­

L..-----~~21:.:;9""2~7--.1--4~88-o.._____....,. L ______-------------...J 
Friday, November 4, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Changes in China show capitalisic inclination 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
News Writer 
Symbolizing the recent changes in China, the slogan "You've come a long way, baby." once used by Virginia Slims, is appropriate, according to Dian Murray. an assistant dean and history professor from Notre Dame. 
Murray spoke of her impres­sions as to the changes in China over the past decade. 
Her first trip to China was made as a tour guide in 1981. Murray commented, "The only color seen was the red paint of political slogans. There was lit­tle life, only dim street lights for dark cities folded up after sun­set. The only people to be seen outside were a few students studying under street lights and old men playing cards." _ 
Few owned TV sets, Coca­Cola was strictly for tourists, domestic travel was severely restricted, "huge, impersonal, state-run" restaurants discour­aged mingling between for­eigners and Chinese, and water was drinkable only after being boiled. And stores only carried "functional, utilitarian items," according to Murray. 


Friendship stores offered the only luxuries at high prices, available to tourists with for­eign exchange certificates. The Chinese had their own set of currency. while foreigners attracted huge crowds, Murray said. 
According to Murray, the Chinese society was "tied to fixed procedures and prac­tices." 
On Murray's eighth and most recent trip, China had changed in many regards, she said. 
Bright, colorful ads on bill­boards replaced the old politi­cal slogans. Discos, restaurants with neon signs, and karoke bars were crammed full. Ev­eryone had a TV set with TV run Army exercise programs replaced by imported soap op­eras and "Little House on the Prairie," according to Murray. 
The government seems to be having trouble controlling what enters China through satellite dishes, she said. Chinese can now enter the once elite friend­ship stores. 
"Street vendors are giving Chinese department stores a run for their money." Murray said. 
Bargaining is more prevalent, and tourism has become a ma­jor industry. People criticize the government, not publicly but tend to be less constrained. 
"Commerce is everywhere and increasing since imple­menting a single currency." Murray said. 
"What do these changes mean?'' Murray asked. 
She said that "history re­peats itself. The China today connects with society in the '30s than with its imminent past." 
All these capitalistic changes have created problems with in­flation, unemployment, and the rerise of secret societies, according to Murray. They seem to have sacrificed "the Maoist goal of a classless soci­ety." 1.5 to 2 million flock to the cities as day laborers, try­ing to find work. Many Chinese have taken on side-line jobs in this new profit-making era, according to Murray. 
Crime, theft, pornography, and drug use. once never a problem, seem to be creeping into Chinese society. The Chi­nese seem to be "searching for something to believe in." 
A main goal, while creating a modern industrial country, seems to be changing without losing their Chinese identity, she said. The glories of Confu­cianism are being revived, and a Mao nostalgia renew old sym­bols of the cultural revolution. 
"These trends seem to show ~ yearning for the good old days," she said. 
i 
In just one decade, Murray observed that the Chinese have turned into excited en­1 trepreneurs living the slogan "to get rich is glorious." "The status symbols of today have 1 become beepers and cellular 
1
,
phones, and everyone drinks 
Coca-Cola." 1 
Murray's lecture took place in the Hesburgh Center last night. 

Crime wave sweeps Europe 

By EDITH LEDERER 
Associated Press 

LONDON 
Gangsters try to sell Russian plutonium to German under­cover agents. Airline passen­gers from Russia try to smuggle 600,000 cigarettes into Sweden. Russian gangs gain control of more than 40,000 businesses. 
The breakup of the Soviet Union has spawned an Eastern European crime wave that is washing over Western Europe as gangsters steal cars and art, sell drugs and smuggle immi­grants and plutonium for nu­clear weapons, a new study says. 
International anti-crime ef­forts are insufficient to stop 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C:ORPS 

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also receive of talented students. If you qualify; 
an allowance of up to $1000 each these merit-based scholarships can school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational effect. Find out today if you qualify: 
ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CD THE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
them, said the study for the Re­search Institute for the Study of Conflict and Terrorism. 
"The region between Russia and Western Europe has now become ... 'a common market of crime,' with Germany as the focal point," said Christopher Ulrich, the study's author. An American, Ulrich worked for the U.N. Arms Control and Dis­armament Agency. 
FBI Director Louis J. Freeh, visiting Moscow this summer, warned that Russian and East­ern European gangs were a threat to the United States and to Russian democracy. 
There were 5, 700 criminal groups in Russia in July, ac­cording to estimates quoted in the study. More than 160 oper­ated internationally in some 30 countries. 
The Russian groups report­edly have been cooperating with large criminal groups in Italy, South America, the United States and Britain. 
The Russians and Eastern Europeans learned from the Italian Mafia. which moved into Eastern Europe after the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, said retired Maj. Gen. Richard Clutterbuck, author of the book "Terrorism, Drugs and Crime in Europe After 1992." 
"It's expanding very fast," he said. "People are discovering they can make a great deal of money by crime rather than working for it." 

r------------------------,
Buy 1·Dinner, Get the 
1 1  2nd Dinner for 1/2 price!  1 1  
IHave dinner at the Emporium. Order one entree at the regular  I  
1price and get another entree of equal or lesser value for Haif  1  
1Price! Choose from our Prime Rib, Steaks, Seafood, and  1  
lchicken selections. All entrees include salad, choice of  I  
lvegetable or potato and freshly baked bread & butter.  I  
I  I  

: ONE HALF PRICE ENTREE PER COUPON : Expires November 12, 1994
L_____~== __ ~!.,~ ~~='~~~ !!_e~ct_:2:_4,::~~ 


Career Opportunities at NBD Bancorp, Inc. 
Presentation and Reception Larry 0 'Connor Executive Vice President NBD Bank • Indiana and other NBD Representatives 
Monday, November 7, 1994 7:00pm-9:00pm Morris Inn Alumni Room 
Information for first and second year MBA and Finance and Account­ing BBA Degree candidates on career opportunities at NBD Bank. 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
------~-----------­
Hijacker surrenders; Chautauqua offered freedom 
no one hurt in Norway 
By PAMELA FORNELL 
Associated Press 
OSLO, Norway 

A Bosnian hijacker surren­dered Thursday after comman­deering an airliner with 129 people aboard over northern Norway and demanding that aid supply lines be opened to Muslim areas in Bosnia. 
In a tape recording released to Norwegian media, the hi­jacker said he wanted to speak to Bosnian officials before re­leasing the hostages. 
"We want to open humanitarian corridors on the ground ... (so) that food, elec­tricity and water and all neces­sary things come into places that are under blockade," he said. "It is the third winter. It is very cold." 
He threatened to kill the pas­sengers if police stormed the plane, parked on a darkened tarmac at Gardermoen Airport just north of Oslo. After nego­tiating with police, he surren­dered without incident Thurs­day night. 
Police identified him only as a 25-year-old Bosnian refugee who had been in Norway for about a year. Norwegian media quoted police as saying he was born in Sarajevo. 
The hijacker had claimed to have a grenade,. although police said they have found nothing on the plane. 
The hijacker commandeered Scandinavian Airlines System Flight 347 with 123 passengers and six crew members Thurs­day afternoon as it flew be­tween the Arctic towns of Bar­dufoss and Bodo. 
Fifty-two people were allowed off at Bodo, where the plane made a brief stop before flying 500 miles south to an airport outside Oslo, the capi­tal. 
At roughly the same time as the hijacking, Norwegian police received bomb threats at 10 lo­cations across the country, in­cluding Fornebu International Airport near Oslo. 
It was not clear whether the threats were linked to the hi­jacking. 
CHRISTINE DEBEVEC 
News Writer 

Living in a society where 
women's equal rights are the 
normal way of life, the struggle 
that women of the past made 
for these rights is often taken 
for granted. 

American Studies Professor 
Jeanne Kilde spoke about the 
Chautauqua Lake Assembly, a 
place founded in 1874 in west­
ern New York State where 
women could step outside their 
domestic lifestyles and enjoy 
the freedom that only men had 
experienced until this time. 
Kilde said that this land in 
western New York state "chal­
lenged the patriarchal society" 
that had existed in the late 
1800s. In a time when a 
woman's role had been to pro­
vide a comfortable home for 
her husband and children, 
Chautauqua provided a safe­
haven for women to participate 
in activities previously deemed 
inappropriate. 

Many of the minor freedoms that women enjoy today, such . as choosing what to wear, to attend school and to work, 
New alliance could win war 
By JASMINA KUZMANOVIC 
Associated Press 
ZAGREB, Croatia 

A new alliance on the battle­field could turn around a war dominated for 2 1/2 years by the Bosnian Serbs. 
In their first coordinated mili­tary action, Muslims and Croats have launched an offensive that is gaining ground against the better-armed Serbs in the strategic Kupres plateau west of Sarajevo. 
But the alliance appears un­likely to hasten the end of Europe's longest war since World War II. 
The Bosnian Serbs seem un­likely to cave in to the new mili­tary pressure and accept an international peace plan. Their leader, Radovan Karadzic, on Thursday again vowed to retal­iate against the latest Muslim­Croat successes. 
The Bosnian government, buoyed by its success, likely will be tempted into escalating the war, an action that could destroy any chance for a peace settlement. 
"If the Kupres offensive proves successful, I wouldn't rule out a general Muslim­Croat offensive in all other ar­eas," said Fran Visnar, military analyst in Zagreb. 
The Kupres plateau is strate­gically important because it connects central Bosnia with the Adriatic sea and neighbor­ing Croatia. This is the first time the Bosnian Serbs have lost the military initiative. 
Besides Kupres, the Serbs face Bosnian government at­tacks in the north near Bosanski Krupa, and south of Serb-besieged Sarajevo. 
Kupres so far is the only front where the mostly Muslim gov­ernment forces have been seen to join _up with the Bosnian Croat militia. But Paul Risley, a U.N. spokesman in Zagreb, said Thursday that Bosnian Croat troops in the Bihac area in northwestern Bosnia were now actively help­ing the Bosnian government offensive pushing toward Bosanski Krupa. 
After a year-long war of their own, Bosnia's Croats and Muslims joined a federation formed under U.S. auspices in March. 
In July, the federation ac­cepted the peace plan giving it 51 percent of Bosnia, but the Bosnian Serbs -holding over 

DOOLITTLE'S PUB 
291--6544 

Home of the DooLittles Amazing Sub & 1/2 lb Pub Burger Serving Food 11 a.m...Midnight daily! Join the Around the World Import Club 
4407 S. Ironwood 
Every Sunday Night 

[HOURS: 
"Rock Sunday" 

Mon.-Sat lla.m. .-3a.m. 
301 Dart Tournament 

Sun 12.-12 
$5 entry, 100% pay back 

two-thirds of the state -re­jected settling for 49 percent. 
Until last week, the Croats and Muslims had not made common cause against the Serbs on the battlefield. A se­nior military adviser to Croatian President Franjo Tudjman, who has considerable influence with Bosnia's Croats, told Croatian media on Thursday there is no choice but to extend military cooperation. 
"We have neither time nor space to contemplate whether we should go with the Muslims or not," said Gen. Antun Tus. 
were not even considerations in the late 1800s. 
Kilde said that Chautauqua offered an informal atmosphere where women could participate in recreational activities such as concerts , lectures, and educational classes. Women's activities had been restricted to the private domestic life at that time. and men had dominated the public aspect of life. 
At Chautauqua, however, women found themselves pos­sessing a self-reliance and self­confidence never before needed in their previous lives. Many women traveled to Chautauqua alone; therefore, they were re­quired to make their own ar­rangements and create their own domiciles. 
The informality created in this retreat gave women the freedom to break the rules of etiquette that they were required to follow in the real world. 
Many times women could dress more casually, oftentimes going hatless. Kilde added that a final benefit to life at Chautauqua was the "release from domestic duties." 
A comment from a member of the audience compared life at Chautauqua to that of today's suburbs. It was a friendly and informal environ­ment. The housing space was small and many of its inhabi­tants lived in canvas tents. So the lives of the people were of­tentimes separated only by can­vas flaps. 
The only element missing from Chautauqua that exists in modern suburban life is dan­ger. According to Kilde, this fact also helped to allow women to occupy the space where their safety might, in the real world, be threatened. 
Chautauqua was one of the first opportunities for women to exercise their rights to live equally to men. When the Chautauquan women returned home to normal life, they brought with them the religious ideals and new experiences that they had learned during their stay. 
The thinking that went along with the Chautauquan ideals eventually spread throughout the world and women gradually began to make progress in their basic rights and freedoms. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIRSTEN 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 6:00 & 9:30 pm 

------·-----------------------------------------------~ 

Friday, November 4, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page? 
Death penalty recommended Aristide pays first 
By BILL KACZOR tuses, Hill, acting as his own America and the Orthodox Associated Press lawyer, offered no defense at Presbyterian Church, was also 
visit to Cite Soleil 
his trial. He put no witnesses on convicted Oct. 5 of violating the ByLISAHAMM commanders under the formerPENSACOLA, Fla. the stand and asked no ques­new federal clinic-protection 
Associated Press military regime, Lt. Col.
A jury recommended tions. law in the shotgun attack. He Claude! Josephat. 
Thursday that a former minis­However, he fmally spoke di­could get up to life in prison for The U.S. military refused toter get the electric chair for the rectly to the 12 jurors just be­that offense at sentencing Dec. " PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti Thousands of Haitians confirm or deny the arrest ofshotgun slayings of an abortion fore they began weighing his 9. He acted as his own lawyer thronged the streets of Port-au­Josephat, commander of Haiti's doctor and his bodyguard. fate. at that trial, too. 
Prince's poorest neighborhood northern district, reported byPaul Hill, a 40-year-old who "In an effort to suppress this The federal law against using Thursday for their first close Signal FM. .
had claimed that killing abor­truth, you may mix my blood violence or otherwise harassing look in three years at the man Home to 250,000 of Haiti'stion doctors is divinely sanc­with the blood of the unborn those entering abortion clinics they brought to power and poorest denizens, Cite Soleiltioned and had portrayed him­and those who have fought to was prompted by the slaying in sometimes supported with was the site of countless acts ofself as a martyr to the cause, defend the oppressed," Hill 1993 of another abortion doctor blood. repression during army rule. 
showed no emotion as the ju­said. "However, truth and at a second Pensacola abortion 
President Jean-Bertrand More than 800 homes were
ry's recommendation was read. righteousness will prevail. May clinic. 
Aristide visited Cite Soleil for burned down in December, andThe same jury took just 20 God help you to protect the un­On Thursday, Assistant State the first time since his return corpses were frequently foundminutes Wednesday to convict born as you would want to be Attorney James Murray told the from exile Oct. 15. During in the streets, victims of attacks Hill of murder. It took nearly protected." jury it had a responsibility to three years of military rule, the by army-backed militias. 
four hours to choose between Wielding a 12-gauge shotgun, recommend death for Hill. 
slum remained a stronghold of "You have endured greatthe death penalty and life in Hill ambushed Dr. John Bayard "The defendant had been support. hardship, and you have done it prison without parole. Britton, 69; his bodyguard, re­telling the doctor for the past Accompanied by U.S. nation­with dignity, and courage, andCircuit Judge Frank Bell is tired Air Force Lt. Col. James ~ix months: Execute al security adviser Anthony patience and a commitment tonot bound by the recommenda­H. Barrett, 74; and Barrett's Abortionists," Murray said, re­Lake, Aristide was met by democracy," Lake told the peo­tion and could instead impose a wife, June, 68, as the three ar­ferring to a poster Hill used thousands of delirious support­ple through an interpreter.
life sentence. A sentencing date rived at the Ladies Center clinic during anti-abortion demon­ers, the same people whose "Now we are at the dawn ofwas not immediately set. on July 29. Mrs. Barrett was strations. 
popular uprising swept him to a new day in Haiti. It will be aBarred by the judge from ar­wounded. Many abortion opponents power in December 1990. day of long hard work and theguing that the slayings were Hill, a former minister in the have denounced Hill and his "We're going to put our United States is here to helpjustifiable homicide to save fe-Presbyterian Church in use of violence. 
hands together to unite, to re­you." 
build reconciliation day and Aristide told the rapt crowd
Featuring: 

night," Aristide cried from a that he planned to build a new raised podium. school with money donated by
Hickory Smoked Ribs 

Dancing people covered Japan and would rebuild
~~Shadu every space in sight, sharing homes for victims of the fire.
Hickory Smoked Chicken 

balconies and rooftops with He also said a delegation would 
$ St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet 
U.S. Army security personnel. come to the slum Friday to dis­
~ fi Granger,lndiana Fried Chicken 
"The country is yours, you can tribute pencils and notebooks do whatever you want!" some for schoolchildren. roared. A beaming Aristide then
I~-elb 277·3143 Tender Seafood 
Also Wednesday, Haitian came down from the podium radio reported that U.S. and reached past the white-rib­
Grilled Steaks 

authorities arrested one of the bon barrier to touch hands
~.~~t1 
most powerful Haitian army with the crowd. 
Deliciously Thick Pizza 

r------------------------,
FAMILY STYLE SPECIAL 

: Buy 1 Dinner, get the : All you can eat Ribs and Chicken Dinner 
I 2nd Dinner for 1 I 2 Price! 1 
I I
$6.99 for groups of 10 or more 
:
PERFECT FOR SECTION DINNERS! 
Located on State Rd. 23 and Bittersweet 
FJ4ee Movies! 
Student Activities presents an evening of: 
Dinosaurs 
8:00 PM The Land Before Time 
and genies, 
9: 15 PM Aladdin 
dwarfs and meanies, 
10:45 PM· Snow White 
virtue, vice 
12:15 AM An American Tale 
and friendly mice. 
The LaFortune Ballroom Friday, November 4tlt 
11\[[ TOfCOI\N! 
fREE sOFT DHiNISi 


YOUR FEAST INCLUDES: 
• 
Our luscious new Bruschetta appetizer. 

• 
Garden-fresh salad or soup. 

• 
Fresh-baked breadsticks. 

• 
Choice of one of five entrees. 


Hurry! Limited time only! 
Mishawaka, 6410 Grape Rd., opposite University Park Mall, 277-6503 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, November 4, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... RyanMaylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ...............................Maty Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Maty's Editor............... Eiizabe<h Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is <he independent newspaper published by <he students of the Universio:y of None Dame du Lac and Sain< Maty's College. h does not necessarily reflect <he policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of <he majorio:y of <he Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of <he None Dame/Saint Maty's com­munio:y and to all readers. The free expression ofvatying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor I Production General Information  631-4541 631-4543 631-5323 631-4540 631-5303 631-7471  Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu  

.lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Stop dancing around the real problems 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is written in response to the Farley boy­cott of the Carroll formal. As a Farley senior who was unaware of plans for the Carroll dance (the decision was not unanimous or voted upon to my knowledge), I feel the need to express my out­rage and concern. It disturbs me that the women of Farley are fooling themselves by this protest. As long as women on this campus jump on the witch hunt bandwagon in the administration and resi­the Keenan men. Theseregard to this issue, the only dence hall staff to the stu­Farley girls need to grow upresult will be an increase in dents. Women cannot escape and realize that, unfortunate­the lack of respect for women physical or mental violence ly. they cannot protect them­on campus. We need to rec­by boycotting or isolating a selves by isolating and avoid­ognize that even ND women particular group. ing a group. Only when this are not exempt from degrad­The irony of this instance is is realized can they begin toing and devaluing our sisters. 

astonishing for myself. The protect themselves from vio­
For instance, BP is nick­
formal has now been lence and degradation. 
named "Bay of Pigs." The 

rescheduled with Keenan. ANONYMOUS
term "SMC chick" is often Last January I was raped by Senior

heard from these same 

a Keenan resident in Keenan. Farley Hall women. Degrading opinions I have no intentions of boy­Editor's note: The Observer only runsregarding women are every­
cotting the joint Keenan anonymous letters that pertain to sensitive
where on this campus, from dance. I hold nothing against issues such as sexual assault. 

Obnoxious students ruin halftime 
Dear Editor: ate, his family made reference to the stu­
The Half time of last week's game was the dent's love of Notre Dame and the overriding best I have seen in the three years I have feelings of God, Country and Notre Dame. been at Notre Dame: a great band perfor­I have yet to graduate from this fine institu­mance, a touching remembrance of a fallen tion but I do know its position relative to God ND graduate, and a guest appearance by the and Country. My parents and my undergrad­Marine Silent Drill Team. Unfortunately the uate education taught me to show proper experience was marred by a number of stu­respect for my country and my guests. I was dents who yelled during the remembrance. ashamed to be in the student section during Further outbursts including counting down half time and you should be, too. fmal seconds of the halftime clock during the Marines' performance and yelling for the drill MIKE FABIAN team to get off the field. During the remem­Graduate Srudenr brance of the Notre Dame Army ROTC gradu-Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 
~9o~.,socj;).l mentalities ~pdfi ge~der relations 
Deat Editor: !iii!'':.. .....· ;il]~;
After reading the article concerning the Notre Dame forum on women's issues, I found myself wrestling with my own opinions regarding gender relations. I believe that gender equality should be more prevalent and I also believe that' the surrounding issues should be examined and addressed. However, how far do we really need to go? The examples pulled from Alumni and Carroll Halls simply show a lack of class and maturity on the part of those responsible for the notes,. If you walk into any women's dorm, you'll find the same degra­dation occur~towardst~~men on. campus, just to a lesser degree than the examples. I am iiot asserting that the comments made are excusable; they are not. It just follows that "boys will be boys" mental­ity, and I believe that to be typical of boys' mentality, not of real men. 
Some other comments also disturbed me more so than the hall examples. The Student Advocates ·for Inclusive Ministry really have some chutzpa for saying that women and homosexuals belong togeth­er as a "socially marginal group" with regard to the Catholic Church. I can see homosexuals as a part of that group, not women. I resent being included in that poorly thought out statement. I am a woman and I am part of more than half of the world's population. I define myself as a woman because that is what I am; I do not define myself by my behavior or simply by my sexual preference, as do homosexu­als. lf the church sees it necessary to not include homosexuals, then so be it. No one ever said it was an inalienable right to be part of a religious group: love .it or leave it 
What position does Jay Brandenburger hold to tell me that I must change my language when I speak about boys or vice versa? The only way for a man to realize a woman's capacity and potential is through 
. r~lating wit]l h~r botlrp,cademipally and ~ocially as we do here. Gender relations are noCgoing ·to improve with· a bunch of language enforcers telling us hoW to describe members of the opposite sex.. I 
prefer natural progression of opinions that come with sensi­an imposed · . of opinion. 
· .· •.· •. doe .•·· on campus and it ou;'"'"'''" such a utopia. If of harassment they are generah the exceptions ::.,.,;;::::Jji~~f1f~~1:·+ ;·: : . : >i{~:ffillf~f~j:: :: .. Dame Women's seem to want· a there;" 
rnenailt(louJts that 

•  llOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  • QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Na<TH CON/JEMN&IJAUB3A­TIONS THATFl£&.f3 FOUNDIN Hlf3 ~AF& BY TH& flii 5H®E31? OTH&RJU/'313, 5AYIN6 7HATH& HAO N&V&I<fCUNO TIM& 70 &.XAM!N& 7H£/VI.. ·  ''It's not the years in your life but the life in your years that counts!"  
-Adlai Stevenson  


-------~-----~------------­

-----------------------------------------, 
Friday, November 4, 1994 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 
• lETTER TO THE EmTOR 
Dear Editor: 
think that both David Gordon and Joshua Quinn have missed the point regarding National Coming-Out Day. It is not about recruitment or con­fession of one's sex life, as Mr. Gordon suggests; nor is it about segregation, as Mr. Quinn believes. 
It is about visibility. 
Mr. Gordon does not have to announce his heterosexuality because society already assumes he (and everyone else) is heterosexual. Gays, lesbians and bisexuals often lead invisi­ble Jives due to this hetero-sex­ist attitude. It is perpetuated in the movies and on television, where heterosexuality is shoved in our faces through sex scene after sex scene while the mere image of two people of the same gender kissing is met with scandal and controversy. The purpose of National Coming­Out Day is to challenge this belief and to open the eyes of heterosexuals to the existence of expressions of love and sexu­ality that are actually similar to theirs. The only difference is that they involve members of one's own gender rather than those of the opposite gender. It is not aimed at turning other­wise heterosexual people into homosexuals. The reason that meeting places for gays, les­bians, and bisexuals have been listed in previous editorials was so students who identify or potentially identify themselves as homosexual or bisexual could know that there are places for them to find support and acceptance as well as a social atmosphere to meet oth­ers. (And yes, some probably do "link up," as Mr. Gordon puts it.) It is a lot like other groups and organizations, only those organizations are rec­ognized by the university (Again the concept of "invisibility" ap­plies.) and can therefore publi­cize freely and openly without arousing suspicion of ulterior motives. 

Visibility was probably also the motive of the chalk-written phrase, "Gay Engineering Students' Entrance" criticized by Mr. Quinn. I believe that the purpose of this message was not to say that only gay engi­neering students should enter in that particular location, but rather that people should not 

assume that only straight engi­neering students go through that particular entrance. In other words, people should not assume that all engineering students, or students in any school or department at Notre Dame, are heterosexual. As for these and other chalk messages being written in the middle of the night, I agree that it would probably have shown more pride if they had been written in broad daylight. But consider this: A recent national guide to colleges and universities includ­ed a list of the top twenty five best and worst schools for gays and lesbians. Guess where Notre Dame was listed? Number 13 among the worst! (This should not come as a sur­prise to those of you who saw or heard about the other chalk­written phrases that were very anti-gay and very threatening.) It's no wonder that no one was willing to write messages of gay pride during the day. However, there were people all across campus wearing ribbons, but­tons, and other paraphernalia displaying their support for gays, lesbians, and bisexuals, in broad daylight. 
There are those who do not believe that there should be a coming-out day for gays, les­bians, and bisexuals any more than there should be such a day for heterosexuals. But as long as most of the heterosexual "community" does not recog­nize the visibility of people of all sexual orientations, National Coming-Out Day will continue to serve an important educa­tional purpose. I actually look forward to the day when it will not be needed anymore. 
And by the way, I would like to join the others who have already come out in making myself visible as a man who is proud to be gay. I hope that all gays. lesbians, and bisexuals who are still invisible will also stand up and be proud. But I especially hope that all hetero­sexuals will stand up in support of this visibility. 
DAN SIGALE 
Graduate student in music 

• I AM Nor A POTTED PLANT 
Human reason violates the Religious Right 
A friend here at the law school is about to start a Notre Dame chapter of the "Law School Advocates Association," which is affiliated with Pat Robertson, Jay Sekulow, and the Regents University crowd. My friend is a devout Catholic, and she always follows the Church's teachings. I am writing this article to explain to her (and those who agree with her) why I think she is wrong. 
To begin with, my friend is not alone in her approach. I think many Catholics who follow the Pope find themselves aligning with the Religious Right-the Moral Majority, the "Christian Coalition"-on a lot of issues. You see it being addressed (Jews commanded by God to massacre people, kosher laws, women being silent in church, etc.). Moreover, it is really hard to have a protestant orthodoxy, which is what the Protestant right desires. They have to say either (1) the meaning of the Scripture is obvious {and it's a moral failing not to see it) or {2) there is no one correct, authoritative interpretation, and therefore Scripture should be interpret­ed by each person according to his or her conscience and reason. Thus Protestantism goes back and forth between an orthodoxy that cannot really justify itself, and rather complete auton­
all the time. If you walk past the Basilica during the 11:30 daily Mass, there are Christian Coalition stickers on the cars parked out front. Operation Rescue, while still predominantly 
Charles Protestant, has many Catholic members. Two years ago, the Christian Coalition and the Archdiocese of New York 
Roth

formed an informal coalition to elect anti-homosexuality-in-the-schools peo­ple to School Boards. I am sure the list 


goes on. I think it is undeniable that we Catholics (especially conservative Catholics) find ourselves moving closer to the religious right. 
The Religious Right, of course, is wel­coming us with open arms. On the 700 Club, Pat Robertson appeals specifically to Catholics and good Biblical Protestants. Why does he do this? Let me suggest demographics. While the numbers of born again Christians has been growing, it is still quite small. Catholics account for 28% of the American populace. If the religious right can appeal to only a quarter of the Catholics, and a bunch of Protestants, they can get a solid 10-15% of the popu­lace behind them. That makes them a force to be reckoned with, which of course is what they want. 
I see two problems with the way that fundamentalist Protestants are involved in today's politics. The first is sort of theological. Protestants are protestant precisely because they do not believe in the "twin pillars" of the faith (tradition and scripture), but only scripture. For Protestants, there is no authoritative interpreter of Scripture. They cannot use tradition to distinguish between those parts of the Bible which should have ethical significance for our lives today, from those based on the culture omy. The Pilgrims and Pat Robertson tend toward theocracy. Roger Williams and Thomas Jefferson believed in com­plete religious autonomy. It is only with Anglicans (Catholic wannabe's) like George Washington that religion is in­voked neutrally between the Christian sects. Hard-line Biblical Protestantism can justify only theocracy or complete autonomy. 
I think that Catholicism can justify a different approach. Sure, we have the natural Jaw, which is supposed to be obvious. The natural law is, however, general in application. Yes, we Catholics have some things that we are told to do which are not commanded by the natural law (e.g. no fish on Fridays during Lent); we can distinguish these from more general commands (don't murder). Hard-line protestants either cannot or will not make this distinction. If it is commanded in the Bible, that is it. End of story. If not, then not. 
But that's the problem, you see. The Bible is no grounds for political debate. Politicians are lucky if they can discuss the economy and health care, Jet alone the reasons why they interpret one pas­sage to mean X rather than Y. Can you imagine Clinton and Bush pulling out the original Hebrew or Aramaic, trying to figure out Genesis? The debates might be more interesting, but I don't think it would be good for our nation. More likely, the debate over a passage in the Bible would be either submerged (not talked about) or each candidate would cite some theologian and leave it at that. 

I think faith based on the Bible is great. Political positions, though, ought not be based solely on the Bible, but defended rationally as well. I am not saying that it is bad for fundamentalists to base their beliefs solely upon the Bible, or to bring those beliefs into their political lives. (We do all the time: con­sider Civil Rights, food for the poor and starving, etc.) The question is how best to bring those beliefs into the public square. I think we need to reason our way there, and not simply cite religious authority. 
I know some Catholics who tend to do just this. They think we should just trust the Church and pope, because the Church is infallible on questions of faith and morals. As far as that goes, it's right. I think we should have faith, and trust, and we should be loyal to the Church especially in these days when it is so often scorned and hated. But God gave us eyes to see the Truth; it is called Reason. We should not intentionally pluck out our eyes in order to be blind! We are blind often enough, when our minds cannot comprehend the mysteries of God. Then we will need blind faith. There is no need to pretend we are blind as to why condoms or abortions or pre­marital sex is wrong. We can reason it out, and we should. 
But, comes the response, we should just trust the Pope. Why make all these arguments, when we have a trustworthy source in the church? Our human minds cannot reason infallibly; they lead us astray. So we should just follow the Good Shepherd, and His vicar. After all, look where reasoning gets us! 
Good Catholics should realize by now that many of those who disagree with us are not doing so based on their reason­ing capacities. America simply does not encourage us to be strictly rational in our thoughts. Ask someone: Why do you believe that? The answer is either (1) an appeal to some theme that WE CAN ALL AGREE ON, e.g. we need more free­dom, Jess crime, (2) denouncing some­one we can all hate, e.g. the Ayatollah, Falwell, Hitler, Stalin, or Nixon; and then comparing your opponent to that evil man, (3) talking about some person­al experience that has led you to feel as you do (I knew a guy in high school who was gay, so now I appreciate their pain, blah blah blah), or (4) I believe what I believe, you believe what you believe, WHO'S TO SAY which is right? 
I guess what I am trying to say is that good faithful Catholics should not be 
· afraid of reason. So far as I can tell, the Church's teachings make logical sense; they all hang together. So let's encour­age our opponents to use their reason: by all means! If they did so, debate would occur on a higher plane.· The problem, of course, is that the Church's opponents are more likely to be unrea­soning. They may call it reason, they may think it is reason, but it looks to me more like vitriol, emotion, and blind ad­herence to various failed ideologies. 
The second reason why Robertson and other fundamentalist groups are wrong is that they presume that there is no place for reason in the debate. All they need are Bible quotes. The Catholic equivalent is a hard, unyielding Thomism. I thought we rejected that in Vatican II. What is wrong with this style of argumentation? It is not only unper­suasive in its rigidity, but assumes that people are unlikely to be persuaded rationally. You cannot convince some­one without converting them. 
I do not believe that to be true. Human nature is capable of higher things. We should trust in our fellow humans, even those far down a path we consider error. People generally live up to what we expect of them. If we assume that our fellow citizens will rea­son out their arguments, maybe they will. 
If we need to ally ourselves with hard­line Protestants on some issues, so be it. But let's make clear that we are not members of their groups, but allies. There should be some Catholic equiva­lent of the Robertson pro-family group; maybe it should ally with the Robertson group, but we should not be the same. Catholicism is different from Protestantism; if we act exactly the same, there's probably something wrong. 
Charles Roth is a first year law stu­dent. 

Photo Special to The Observer Photo Special to The Observer 
Fall Festival volunteers give a makeover to South Bend area houses. Nearly 400 Notre Volunteers clean up around houses for Fall Festival '93 in the Northeast neighborhood of Dame and Saint Mary's students participated last year. South Bend. The event will occur again this weekend. 
Volunteers return to neii!hborhood for Fall Festival 
By Dan Cichalski 
Accent Writer 
A cool, autumn Saturday in early November with no Notre Dame football game to watch. So how will the students of Notre Dame spend their day tomor­row? 
Some will sleep and some will study, but hundreds will choose to go out into the community of South Bend and work side-by-side with the residents of the Northeast Neighborhood to enrich the area. 
Fall Festival '94 will take place tomor­row to help make the neighborhood sur­rounding the Notre Dame campus a lit­tle brighter. 
This clean-up project, which had not occurred since the mid-1980s, was reju­venated last year by Student Government in conjunction with the Northeast Neighborhood Center. 
Nearly 400 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students participated in last year's project, and organizers hope for a similar turnout again this year, espe­cially with a large number of volunteers coming from the Notre Dame Navy and Army ROTC programs. 
The main goals for this year's activity are not unlike last year's. Volunteers will replant 10,000 flower bulbs-main­
ly tulips, daf­
Tierney, an Alumni 
fodils and 
Hall sophomore and 
hyacinths-and 

fall Festival '94 
a member of the 
remove any trash or debris from residents' homes. 
The bulbs come from the university which replaces those on cam­pus every year, although the flowers are perennials and bloom every spring. 
This year, surveys were sent out by the 
N o r t h e a s t Neighborhood organization 
asking resi-

IThe Northeast Neighborhood Rejuvenation Project J Saturday, November 5th 
'Ifiank._you to a[[ tk vo(u.nteers wfw signer£ up. 'Even ifyou. riilf not sign up, everyone is w&ome. 
Schedule of Events 8:30am -10 am 
Vans will be picking up volunteers at the Main Circle. 
8:45am -12 pm 
We will be working with residents to clean up yards and parks as well as planting tulip bulbs. 
12 pm -1 pm 

Block party with volunteers and 
Executive Committee for Fall Festival '94. 
"This way, they can leave it out on their porches on Saturday and we'll pick it up." Participants will also go door-to-door ask­ing residents if they have any last-minute requests regarding the clean-up in their yard. 
While last year's project involved a broad area of South Bend, this year's zone is a little small­er so that the results will be more impres­sive. 
"We really want to get it cleaned up this 

dents if they L~=========r:::e::st::'d::e::n::ts::·==========:_____j year," said Tierney. had any specif­ic requests of this year's group. Landscapers from both South Bend 
and Notre Dame's landscape services 
"They figured that if people have department will be on hand to assist in garbage in their homes, it will eventual­the arrangement of the flowers and add ly end up out on the street," said Brian a professional touch to the work that will be done. 
Following the clean-up, which will take place from 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., all volunteers will be treated to a block party which will include refreshments and music-an enjoyable way to relax after a hearty, and heartfelt, morning's work. 
Sign-ups for the Fall Festival '94 were held before the fall break and this past week in the dining halls as well as the Center for Social Concerns and the LaFortune Information Desk. 
However, anyone still interested in joining other Notre Dame and St. Mary's students in improving the area off-cam­pus is welcome to participate. Buses will be leaving from the Main Circle at 9:00 on Saturday morning, or call Executive Committee Chairperson Karen DuBay {271-8992) Kevin Carroll {277 -1323) or Brian Tierney {634-1058) for more infor­mation. 
Fall Festival '94 will be another way for the communities of Notre Dame and South Bend to get together and show their support for each other. And, even after just two years, it looks like it could become a fall Saturday tradition-just like football. 
Saint Mary's Alumna returns to alma mater with words of wisdom 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's alumna, teacher and author, Anna Monardo, will be return­ing to campus this weekend to share her accomplishments with the Saint Mary's community. 
"This will be my first time back since 1981," Monardo said. "I've heard there are lots of changes on campus. I don't know what to expect. I feel like an immigrant." 
Monardo, who received her bachelor's degree in Humanistic Studies and English literature from Saint Mary's in 1977, published her first novel, "The Courtyard of Dreams," in August of 1993. 
After receiving her B.A. at Saint Mary's, Monardo took the Radcliffe Publishing Procedures course and then began working in publishing houses in New York City. 
"Writing scared me at that time," Monardo said. "I worked in publishing because that way I could still be close to books and not have to say that, 'I am a writer."' 
Monardo began writing secretly while working in publishing. 
"I learned a lot by reading other peo­ple's manuscripts," Monardo said. "I saw what works and what doesn't." 
Monardo had little time, however, to work on her own writing during this period. She worked from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m. and then spent most of her evenings and weekends reading manu­scripts. 
"It fmally came to a point where I was extremely frustrated. I felt the urgency to write." 
Monardo left the publishing business after being accepted at Columbia University's master's of fine arts pro­gram. 

"Columbia was great," Monardo said. "Finally I was saying that writing was important in my life. I never had a full time job after that." 
Monardo began her novel, "The Courtyard of ·Dreams," while in gradu­ate school. After getting her M.F.A. in 1983, Monardo wrote free lance articles and copy edited for Time Magazine while working on her novel. 
"I worked two night shifts each week. The hours were difficult but they also gave me long stretches of time to work on my writing," Monardo said. "Besides, nocturnal life gives you some interesting insights on life." 
Monardo began to teach creative writ­ing classes in 1988. 
"Teaching really helped," Monardo said, "Because writing is a very solitary thing. After a long time of writing alone, I felt the need to be out in the world. Everybody needs that." 
Monardo also enjoys students. 
"Not only so I get to teach something that I love and feel passionate about, but my students are also great compa­ny," she said. 
Monardo is currently a visiting writer and assistant professor in the creative writing program at Eastern Washington University. 
"The teaching job took me to Washington," Monardo said. "As soon as it became a possibility, it was some­thing I couldn't resist." 
Monardo also continues to work on her fiction writing. 
"I have a bunch of characters right now, a group of friends. I am exploring them. It could be a novel," Monardo said. 
Monardo will be reading on Monday evening at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's. 
Friday, November 4, 1994 The Observer•WEEKEND page 11 
Snite Museum celebrates life of women 

. Photo Courtesy of Steve Moriarity Dance group from the "Forever Learning Institute" of South Bend perfromed last year at the Snite Museum's Day of Women on October 16, 1993. The focus was on older women. The "Forever Learning Flappers" showed the talent of older women with their artistic rendition. 
By LARRY WARD 
Accent Writer 
Notre Dame professors, Domer graduate students, and prominent women within the South Bend commu­nity will display their talents by relaying stories in poetry, fiction, journalism, music, song, and dance. 
Tomorrow The Snite Museum of Art will celebrate the life of women in the South Bend community with the Fifth Annual Day of Women festivities. 
The theme of this year's festivities is "Telling Stories". Appropriately, the twenty women participat­ing in this year's event will tell stories within their respective field within the arts. Several participants will provide personal life stories. 
The annual Day of Women program began in 1990, which was deemed "The Year of the Woman". Diana Matthias, curator of the Snite Museum, is responsible for the creation of the annual event. 'The event began in order to display the issues, arts, and lives of women in our community," said Matthias. 
Matthias said that the display of the arts of local women, who are alive, would provide visitors to the museum a change of pace from the ordinary displays at the Snite, displays "made by dead men who come from far away." 
Due to the grand success of the first annual Day of Women at the Snite, Museum officials decided to con­tinue the splendid event. 
Each year the Day of Women celebration has been a grand success and accordingly museum officials have continued the event each year. 
Themes of past Day of Women events include "Older Women", a celebration of the art of older women, and "Undergraduates", a display of the successes made by Notre Dame undergraduates in their various art fields. 
This year's Day of Women at the Snite should prove unique because the event displays the art successes of women from a myriad of places within the Notre Dame community but primarily from the South Bend commu­nity. 
For example, Helen Pope, a storyteller from South Bend, will relay her personal accounts of what it was like to grow up an African American woman in South Bend. 
"I will tell of my life in South Bend since 1920 and of my experiences living with different ethnic communi­ties and how each community benefited me personal­ly." 
Pope's unique story will begin the day's festivities at 10 a.m. Matthias encourages everyone to attend this unique beginning of the day. 
Carole Bradley, a writer and photographer from South Bend who occasionally performs her works on WVPE, will relay stories of poetry and fiction. Dame family, including Valerie Sayers, director of the At 11 a.m., stories in poetry, fiction, and journalism 
Sister Ethne Kennedy, associate director of the South Writing Program; and a quartet of graduate students will be performed, at 1:30 p.m. six women will execute Bend AIDS ministries, will present the audience with a who will musically tell the story of a man who fell in stories in music and song, personal stories will be told personal story. love with a much younger woman. at 3 p.m., and Padma Rajagopal, teacher and per­
former of Indian classical dance, will close the festivi­
"My story will tell of my various experiences with In addition, twelve other women from Notre Dame ties with a performance at 4:30. AIDS patients and I will tell of the attitudes and pains and South Bend will perform in the Fifth Annual Day of The Day of Women event will be capped off with a of people suffering from AIDS." Women at the Snite. reception in the atrium of the Snite Museum at 5 p.m. 
Kennedy will tell of these people's "journey through a If you are interested in attending the event, be sure horrible darkness." She will perform between 3 p.m. to arrive at the Snite around 10 a.m. to see three Matthias encourages all student and faculty to attend and 4:15p.m. unquestionably dynamic women tell stories from home "the celebration of the lives and works of women from 
There will be several performers from the Notre and abroad. the South Bend area." 

Friday, November 4, 1994

page 12 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
On baptizing a daughter of the church 
Today at 2 p.m., in the Log Chapel, I will baptize Sophia Francesca Gomez as a daughter of the Church; and for her sake, I wish I were God's spy taking on myself the mystery of things. Then I might be more worthy to bring this eight-month-old to a state of grace, insuring that heaven lies about her in her infancy. 
I have more in mind for her than that she should grow up as a Catholic wimp; and so I pray that she may ingest raven's blood with her mother's milk. May she be passionate enough as a Catholic to have a lover's quarrel with her Church, if this is what she must do to be a happy camper. 
As the Chosen People, Jews have not been slow in remind­ing us that the Master of the Universe at times stands in need of human forgiveness; and it would be mealy-mouthed to say otherwise, if you've waited to die in a holocaust. lf, among Jews, a synagogue has been bombed on the Sabbath in Hebron, and worshipping old people and children have been senselessly killed, the rabbis do not hesitate to say from their pulpits, "Lord, how could you have let this happen? What in the world is the sense of it?" 
But have you ever heard of a priest trying to hold God accountable for the successes of the terrorists in Northern Ireland? Christians have no place in their liturgy where 

Edna St. Vincent Millay com­1lained in a sonnet that God nade the autumn too beautiful this year. Sophia Francesca's
Father Robert Griffin 

coming has made early November overwhelming forBellers lo a Bone.(y 9od 
me. Millay's poetry is a celebra­tion of the bittersweet; it's of 
•------------------=====::..love that is life-giving, but does 
not last. 

they deal with the anger they think that in baptizing Sophia So much of her imagery feel when the allegedly just Francesca, I'm obliging her to seems to be filled with her Judge has left them naked to be a second-class Catholic. remembrances of the death of their enemies. Orthodox Jews, sparrows in a month when having their lovers' quarrels The little lady in her christen­April was not kind. I picture her with God, do not become ing gown is on the far side of as overwrought, chain-smok­estranged from Him; the quar­the generation gap from the ing, made maudlin by the cock­reling becomes part of the inti­priest who will be initiating her tail hour. Sh~ reminds me of macy. They certainly take no as a Christian. For the sake of Shelley at his worst: "I fall upon pleasure in God-bashing. her father and mother, I hope the thorns of life; I bleed," but Questioning Him closely helps she grows up to be another she does not have Shelley's them to know Him better, and Theresa of Avila. For all I great gifts. to lean on Him more trustingly know, she could be the frrst in as the Everlasting Arms. her generation to be ordained a Millay reminds me of why I 
priest; before then, she will am joyful about meeting Sophia 
Today's Church would be become acquainted with what Francesca when she's so very healthier , if it were freer of the poets call "the tears of young. "Childhood," wrote anger. Anger does not go away; things." Millay, "is not from birth to a instead, it keeps building until I'm glad that I have lived long certain age and at a certain it fuels a revolution. Thirty-five enough to baptize her. With age/The child is grown, and years ago, when I was grossly luck, I may survive to give her puts away childish overweight, a therapist said to First Holy Communion; if not, things./Childhood is the king­me: "What do you do with your why then others may mention dom where nobody anger?" The obesity, she recog­me to her, but I do not ask to dies./Nobody that matters, that nized, was stress-related. see the distant scene. If she is." Interiorizing my emotions, I should ever wonder about the was digging my grave with my priest who brought her into the In Sophia Francesca's com­teeth. Church, tell her I said that ing, summer sings in me a little 
there is no easy way of being a while, and this is as young as I 
As an Italian cardinal said Christian. will be from this time on. recently, it is clear that women will not be ordained in this mil­Even the Lord may have a I am not being fair to Millay lennium. Perhaps as soon as dark side which He keeps hid­in all of this; but how could I this thousand years is over, we den from us so that we will not be, since I have never been will be starting the millennium be embarrassed by His love. love-lorne? of the women, I would hate to 
I have an impression-as a result of the O.J. Simpson trial-that we are turning into a nation of sleuths. If so, if I were smart enough, I'd like to be Lieutenant Columbo of the LAPD, looking for evidence of the hidden God. As a gumshoe on the trail of Omnipotence, I would be redundant, since He depends on the Church to keep Him honest, just as the Church depends on Him to keep us honest. It would not be such an honor to serve Sophia Francesca's link to the Church, if I did not like the Church so much. 
But I do not wish Christ on lit­tle children, assuming, as the Fundamentalists do that Christ is "the Answer." Alpha and Omega, He's the gateway to mysteries as obscure as eterni­ty. Of all the sad stories of tongue and pen. The saddest are these: "It might have been." As apriest, I wish I had proge­ny of my own to baptize. 
The 17th century poet John Donne fathered a dozen more children; some of them, pre­sumably, were still-born. Each time he brought one of his babes to the font. he said, it seemed to him that the heavens did open so that he could speak in tongues. 
Perhaps I will be able to speak in tongues when I pour the waters of re-generation on Sophia Francesca. That's why I hope that later, she will bear no grudges. 


Friday, November 4, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Cardinals recruit Navy veteran 
By MIKE EMBRY Farmer is an old-timer fore Christmas. It was a boating Associated Press among Louisville's players, who accident. That really took a range in age from 18 to 21. hardship on the crew. We stuck LOUISVILLE, Ky. "I think his maturity and his together. Out there you're like 
When most of his University leadership ability will be of one big family." By ARNIE STAPLETON starts tomorrow. value to the team because Farmer joined the Navy be­
of Louisville teammates were Associated Press 
Robinson's a l.ll\~~~~1tna.lt playing pick-up basketball we've got so many young kids," cause he was lightweight in "'' · et. H6 wants.to games on neighborhood play­said Louisville coach Denny high school -about 30 pounds NkiHii MILWAUKEE·:%· han:· grounds a few years ago, Craig Crum, who plans to use Farmer lighter than his current 200 
The Mihyatik.e~. ~ueks Farmer was on the high seas. off the bench. pounds. No. 1 N~A'draft:plck Farmer is a 6-foot-5 fresh­"When I came out of high Robinson have agreed to man swingman for the Farmer was stationed aboard school I was a lot thinner than I 
yef,tr G!.lTh:t~t~c t.Qe tearo Cardinals this season. He's also the aircraft carrier USS wanted to be," he said. "I did­noune¢ Saratoga and in Corpus Christi, n't get a high ranking (in re­
25 years old and a six-year U.S. 
Ui$. ... Navy veteran who served in the Texas, during his enlistment cruiting) because of my weight, Bucks' oWJi.et Middle East during Desert from 1987 to 1993. He worked so I decided to go to the ser­fully lij!ar~nt ·.·.. < ~lld~.h.as no Storm in the Persian Gulf War. in aviation ordnance. vice. It took me six years to perform.fl.#G~ intent!ves, Ht'l ''I've been out in the real Three years ago, he was serv­gain 30 pounds." didn't reveal financial tetms; . world and I know how hard it is ing on the Red Sea during but the deat appeared to be bti£\Ying to P ••· · out there," said Farmer, of Desert Storm. Farmer averaged 19 points, the neighbf,lrhood of $70 mil• until Glenn 'nv•nu.:•vn Cairo, Ill. "To come back "That was an experience 10 rebounds and four assists in lion. "· to play, whet)ler makes me take school a lot which I hope no one would senior year in high school. He 
Robinson was en route from night Saturday ~·~· ..•··" more seriously. I tell the guys have to go through," he said. was recruited by Southern his home in Gary, Ind., and he Tuesday. t& , all the time that it's not as easy "Off my ship we lost 25 guys. Illinois and several Division II was expected to sign by the As training camp as you think it is out there." Once we lost 21 two days be-schools. end of the day. Bucks~ without Robinson, spokesman BillKing II said. management grew 
ingly frustrated with 

Suspension helps Spurs unite 
Robinson; the nation's lead. called his inflexibi 
·ing collegiate scorer last year Bucks traditionally By KELLEY SHANNON gether," Spurs center David fighting me," Spurs coach Bob as a J'unior at Purdue, had reveal information on Associated Press Robinson said after practice Hill said. turned down an offer ofnine . talk~. but clid . . Wednesday. Spurs officials said if years and $60.million, fully ying theywa.nti'l£1 SAN ANTONIO Rodman's suspension without Rodman's behavior doesn't guaranteed. Tile tealll sai · ord ·· Dennis Rodman's latest out­pay, imposed by the team, will improve after the suspension, 
Robinson sought l\ 13-yf) burst will keep him out of the last through Friday night's he'll get more of the same. deal worth $100 million. 6' San Antonio Spurs' first three opener against Golden State, "If his conduct continues the 
Kohl said he got involved regular-season games, forcing then the next two games way it has been, unfortunately the negotiations Wednesday his teammates to work on ways against New Jersey and Utah. we would probably have to look night and that the agreement 1l1 ... · to win without him. "Dennis has to realize he's at a more serious suspension to was reached at 2 a.m. that the'· "It's time for us to go ahead not going to win the battle -get our message across," 
Asked why the deal was ed a club 9ption for and get on with it and start fighting the NBA, fighting the Popovich said. reached after weeks of grid­year that would br bringing our team together the officials, fighting (Spurs general Rodman hasn't commented lock, Kohl said, ;'The season value to $68.1 million. way we need to bring it to-manager Gregg Popovich), publicly on the suspension. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center.
Classifieds Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK '95! LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA,  '93 Camero Z28, 6-speed, pw, pdl, abs, Clarion  PLEASE! I need 2 student tix or GA's to Air Force. Call Kristy at  2 FSU GA TIX FOR SALE. CALL LIX W/BEST OFFER ­ LICK!  
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE.  CD player, alarm, 1Ok miles  x2562  284-4342.  Due to circumstances beyond our  
Network Golf is a new Multi-Level  BOOK EARLY AND SAVE$$$!  never seen winter. $18,000.  control, DALLOWAY'S will be  
Marketing organization for great  ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL  Call4·1970  JAMES  TAYLOR  MAIN FLOOR  FOR SALE: 2 FSU GAs 272-1365  closed on Saturday, November 5.  
values in golf products and sup­ FREE! SUN SPLASH TOURS1·  272-7233  Go see emiLy and Chisel or some­ 
plies. Golfers interested in lower  800·426·7710  WANNA SEE A SMILIN' FACE?  3 James Taylor Tickets for sale  thing  
prices for their own supplies and  2 FRONT ROW TIX TO JAMES  I NEED AF GA's  Call x2010  --Meg and Jen--­ 
people interested in the earnings  Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  TAYLOR AVAIL.-CALL x4910 W/  DAVE 634·1198  
potential of an exciting MLM oppor·  Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  YOUR BEST OFFER.  $$ for 4 (together) GA's. tix for Air  Loel, I'm missing you on Friday,  
!unity can contact Jim or Wendel,  1 (800)359·9808  WANTED: 2 AF GA's  Force {11/19). Need for alum. com·  but I can't wait until Saturday ...  
Network Golf Independent  GOOD TRANSPORTATION· '84  4·2628  ing from out of State. Call1-800·  
Distributors, and  Wanted!!! Individuals and Student  Toyota Corolla LE., $1300. Call  243-6325, ext.345 by 5 PM. Mon.  
N.D. Alumni. 273·9502  Organizations to Promote SPRING  Cathi 287-0363.  HELP!! Need 2 GA's or stud tix for  11/7. Lv message if not available.  To my favorite future fire fighter:  
BREAK '95. Earn substantial  Air Force call AMY 277-4612  STUD BUZZARD!  
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES Pandora's Books 233·2342 NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/1 0·6  MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1· 800-327-6013  TICKETS  Need two Air Force GAs Leslie 273­9303  FOR SALE: 2 FSU GA's 255-7961 after 6p  Did you ever know that you're my hero?? Good luck on part two!..........................  
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store  Anyone going to or through KY  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551  I need 7 Air Force tickets or as  PERSONAL  Carrie: Hope all is well with you and  
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from  Wed., Nov. 20? 2 need ride. Will  many as you have. Call Dave at  Cheyne. I haven't seen either of  
around the world.  help pay expenses. x2521 ask for  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  x1891.  Notre Dame's Traditional Irish Band  you online. Please answer your e­ 
GLOBAL GIFTS at LaFortune  Ann or Jen.  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  ... Seamaisin ....1st CD at the  mail, or call me 612.647.6675. Marl<  
Student Center, Nov. 10 & 11,  4SALE:  2 USC GA'S II  x3373  Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas  T  
Room 108, 9am·6pm.  
ILOST & FOUND I  LOCAL CONSULTING FIRM SEEKS SALES/MKTG. ASST. FOR 94/95 SCHOOL YEAR.  HELP, I NEED TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES! (GA'S & STUDENT) esp. • 2 GA'S FOR STANFORD  I have 2 FSU GA'SIIIII Yeah baby, and I want to sell them baby, so  MUSICAL THEATER@ NO Experienced director looking for ma.;sic director for musical audition­ *"Top 10 ?'s asked on "The Farm••• 1. Has anyone seen John? Is he still at the Dairy Yum-Yum?  
FLEX. HAS.  * 1 STUDENT TIC FOR BYU  lookey here, call me pronto and ask  ing in Dec. and performing in Feb.  2. Did you see a white mailbox?  
FOUND: tWo men's ties that acci­ HOURLY WAGE & COMM.  * MANY GA'S &/or STUDENT  for Andy at x3830 ps, my room­ GOTH sponsored. Interested? Call  3 Are you on fire?  
dentally fell off someone's dry  GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO GAIN  FOR AIR FORCE  mates need SYR dates!!  Cara @271·9364.  4. Through which door would the  
cleaning. They were found about  VALUABLE SALES EXP.  • 4 GA'S TOGETHER FOR ANY  other guard enter to get to heaven?  
two weeks ago in front of Crowley.  (219) 256-9546.  GAME  I HAVE 2 FLA ST TIX FOR SALE  Learn Korean From Experienced  5. Bang, Bang, Bang· Who's dead?  
Call X2140 for more information. II FORRENTWANTED L------------1 THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  PLEASE HELPI THANK YOUI CALL KATIE ADAMS @2845 It's my dad's 50th Birthday and I want to make his day. You can  CHRIS 1-6696 I have 2 FSU GA's for sale. Call Anne at 312-907-8075 with your offer. Leave a message with your  Teacher. Call288-9451 CHISEL·AII ages show! This Saturday Nov. 5, 94 in the LaFortume Ballroom  6. Where's the ham from the door? 7. How much would you take for your underwear? 8. Why isn't anyone in the kitchen with Dinah?  
MACRI'S DEll  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  help mel! Sell me  phone# if not home.  9:00pm  9. Who's your daddy???  
Now hiring most positions. Good  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  FOUR AIR FORCE GAS  $1.00  10. And what do they say about  
starting pay plus benefits and  NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  Please????!!  Need:  The loft series not brought to you  those mechanicals?  
bonus programs. Experience  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ Thanks. Michelle 284-5512  Air Force GAs (2 or 4 together)  from some dollar store but by  Good times, Good Friends, & Great  
helpful but not necessary. We train.  773-2034  call Marc at X3309 or X3300  WVFI and SUB!  CampfiresIIIII  
Apply within at either location:  I NEED 3 AF GAs! Sam X4872  
214 Niles Av., S. Bend, 282-1351  Blow your cool. WVFI is now louder  
or 6502 Grape Rd., Mishawaka  FOR RENT:  NEXT TO CAMPUS­ 4 SALE:  2 AF & 2 FSU GA II  NEED AF  GA'S 00  STUD  and clearer on your radio. Tune to  Get Stoned!II!  Get Stoned!!!!  
277·7273.  FURNISHED STUDIO APT.  3373justin  TIX  640 AM for new music!  Get Stoned!II!  Get Stoned!! II  
AVAILABLE NOWIII  CALL DIONE  Get Stoned!!II  Get Stoned!! II  
STUDENT TRAVEL SALES!  AT 273·6381/ LEAVE MESSAGE.  NEED 4 GA TICKETS FOR AIR­ X3098  can we all be friends and go to the  Come See Oliver Stone on  
Sunchase Tours is seeking ambi­ FORCE GAME IN EXCHANGE  Lone Star for steak and brew?! PS,  Wed. November 9 at 7:30 in Stepan  
tious sales reps to promote ski and beach trips for Spring Break '95!  FOR SALE  FOR CASH AND A JOB. CALL LARRY OR KATHY (708)495-2711.  2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235-3394  DOC, why don't you spread the wealth, eh? K.I.T., would you  Center. Tix on Sale at LaFortune, $3  ....  
Earn cash and free trips. CAll  shave that sh_ yehahyehah  
today: 1-800 SUNCHASE.  I need tickets to PHISH...any show.  NEED 2 OR 3 AF GAs. CALL  SABOR  LATINO  
JAMES TAYLOR TICKETS  call X1997  DREW 232-3769  To Baseball's greatest fan: Happy  Saturday, Nov. 5 @ 10 pm  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ 5th ROW!!!!!  Birthday .Tiana !!  CLUB 23  
Earn up to $2,000+/month working  call: -1240 or -1082  Need 2 AIR FORCE GAs  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 AIR  SABOR  LATINO  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ Please call Curtis 282-2197  FARCE GA'S.  CALL JOSE X1661.  00000000000000000000000000  
panies. World travel (Hawaii,  1. The kite is gone from the tree in  though i've tried before to tell her of  
Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.)  EA HOCKEY for IBM  For Sale: 2 FSU Tix  1 FSU TIX for sale, Call Christina  front of Zahm  the feelings i have for her in my  
Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ 1994 players with trades, etc...  Call x1752  @284-5543  2. But the swimmer is still wearing  heart, everytime that i come near  
ment available. No experience nee·  almost brand new, has all books  that ugly red+white hat.  her i just lose my nerve as i've done  
essary. For more information call1·  and the registration form.  Need 2 Air Force GA's  2 FSU GA'S 4 SALE  -Ron  from the start  
206·634-0468 ext. C55841  best offer; call Tom at 4-1712  call Pat x2213  ERIC 254-0719  00000000000000000000000000  

• INTERHAIJ. fOIHBAU. • COU.EGE fOOTBAll• 
Flanner faces Carroll Polls may have different No. I 
By JACK MACLEOD 
Spans Writer 
Forget about the World Series. Don't even mention the Stanley Cup. It's interhall play­off time with Sunday's high­profile matchup taking place at 1 p.m. as top-seeded Carroll faces No.8 Planner. 
"We didn't make it last year, but two years ago it we were right in the thick of things," Carroll running back Scott Ismail said. 
Carroll worked its way through a 3-0-1 regular season record to earn themselves the top playoff bid. 
"The team is handling all of the emotions pretty well. I think that it should be a pretty good game," Ismail said. "Both teams have to play flawless." 
If there are any grudges in this game it should be on the part of Carroll. 
"We don't have any grudges ourselves, if anything they should have one against us. We bumped them out of the playoffs a couple of years ago," Planner captain Tom Keller said. 
Planner has been in the play­offs three out of the last four years, so they are no stranger to post-season play. 
Off-Campus vs. Alumni 
Do you know what you get when you take all of the regu­lar season statistics and all of the rankings, previous and pre­sent? Absolutely nothing. It's time start a fresh new life. 
Off-Campus bumps heads in their first playoff game against Alumni at 2:00 on Stepan Field. Although Off-Campus admits to no grudges, it's just the op­posite for Alumni. 
"We have grudges against ev­eryone that stands in our way," Avery Johnson said. 
All in all, Alumni seems to be handling the emotions pretty well. Their main focus is keep­ing their intensity up to speed. 
With Tom Ysursa out of town for a week, it was a godsend for Off-Campus to get Curt Plaza back from a kidney injury. Ysursa, a defensive lineman, will be greatly missed, but Plaza can play on both the of­fensive and defensive line. 
"It helps having Curt back but he is just one player," Off. Campus running back Chris Monahan said. "We all need to step up our play if we want to make it to the stadium. I can't do it alone. The.re is no 'I' in team, but there is one in 'stadi­um' and that is our goal." 

L New Color
0 
Enhancin8 Conditioners 
~ ::J 
are Iiere! 
0 
0 V ~ '?" full &rvice &lon 1357 N. Ironwood Hair • &kin • Nails 
(Corner of4-Edison (SJ Ironwood) ~~~· 
<1f l'l/U RJ....~R A"l' rt.ANT li.<.'<lNC :t.~
23 6767 
tWr c.. •Slolrl c.. •c..-c-ln 
A WEEKEND 
RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 

SIGN UP .... DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 

I I I 
.• ~ 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
GUIDED BY 
STUDENTS, FACULTY & 
STAFF 
An opportunity, In dltlogue with others, to dHpen your understanding of your..lf, your valuea, your 
retttlonshlp wllh Christ, your eJCpertence of Chr1allan 
community and HrYice. 
December 2-4, 1994 
November 1-7 
November 7-4:00 p.m. 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
1.1 
CAMPUS 
$25.00 
MNISTRY 
By RICK WARNER 
Associated Press 

For 11 straight seasons, from 1979-1989, the two major col­lege football polls crowned the same national champion. 
The streak stopped in 1990, when the media picked Colorado and the coaches selected Georgia Tech. The fol­lowing year, the title was shared by Miami (media) and Washington (coaches). 
Now, for the third time in five years, the polls could be head­ed for a split decision. 
Nebraska is No. 1 with The Associated Press media and Penn State is No. 1 with the USA Today-CNN coaches. Since they can't play in a bowl due to conference commitments, there could be co-champs again if they both go undefeated. 
"That would be the only fair way to do it," ESPN commenta­tor Lee Corso said. "Right now, they're head and shoulders above the rest." 
That's certainly the way it seemed last Saturday when Nebraska (9-0) dominated then-No. 2 Colorado 24-7 and Penn State (7 -0) pulverized then-No. 21 Ohio State 63-14. 
Despite handing Ohio State its worst defeat in 48 years, Penn State lost ground in both polls. 
The Nittany Lions remained No. 1 with the coaches, but their lead over Nebraska was cut to two points. The Cornhuskers jumped over Penn State in the media poll, edging the Lions by six points. 
Nebraska benefited by beat­ing an undefeated team in a much-hyped, nationally tele­vised game. While Penn State was overpowering, it came against a team that had already lost to Washington and Illinois. 
"Everyone was raving about Colorado and they didn't think Ohio State was that good," said AP voter Mark Blaudschun of the Boston Globe, who has picked Nebraska No. 1 the past three weeks. 
In first-place votes, Nebraska leads Penn State 33-28 in AP and 32-30 in USA Today-CNN. The other AP first-place vote went to third-ranked Auburn (8-0), which is barred from the coaches' poll because the school is on NCAA probation and can't play in a bowl. 
Auburn has won 19 straight games over two seasons, but the Tigers probably can't finish first in AP unless Nebraska and Penn State lose. 

:Sophomore Literary Festival: ~ * Student Reading * ~ 
••• Take this opportunity to read on the very stage where Allen Ginsburg, Margaret Atwood, Kurt Vonnegut, and Tennessee Williams have all once read/ 
•• *Sophomore Literary Festival is inviting students to submit work : 
• (poetry and prose) for its 1st Annual Student Reading, : •• to be held February 14, 1995. •• *All submitting writers are required to attend an audition on :
• 

Thursday, Nov. 10. Writers must read a short (5-1 0 min.) : selection and submit a written copy of that selection • 
• to the judges as well. :
• 

*More info on the audition will be announced any day, • ••• so be attentive to future ads and signs! : • ANY QUESTIONS?...ca/1 Kate at #4828 cool. • 
LaFortune Info Desk. Hurry! $12 /ND/SMC Student wI ID. 4 tix/ person. $15/GA 

~----------­
Friday, November 4, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• INTERHAU. foonHU.!. 
Chickens 'pumped up' for playoffs 
By SHANNON O'DONNELL 
Sports Writer 
The intensity level in the first round playoff game between 5­1 Pangborn and 3-2-1 Lewis could get sky high, as both P.B. coach Greg Borkowski and Lewis captain Tracy Cote agree that is the key to victory. 
"Our team needs to play with more intensity and carry it throughout the entire game," Borkowski said. "We need to keep our emotional level high." 
Cote said her team has also experienced a lack of intensity; however, she said making it to the playoffs may change that. 
"There is that pressure that if you lose, you are out," she said. "I think we will be more pumped up because we are in the playoffs." 
Borkowski and Cote also agree that the focus this week in practice has been getting back into the swing of things, something Borkowski does not think is too difficult for his team due to the players' experience. 
"We have about 18-20 girls on the team who have played in the same positions the whole 

PROFESSOR APPRECIATION DAY 
Sunday, November 6 
•All Notre Dame Professors and 
their families are invited to celebrate an evening in Dillon Hall! 
We will celebrate mass at 4 p.m. in the Dillon Hall Chapel Celebrant: Fr. Malloy Followed by a Dinner Reception with the Men of Dillon! 
season. So I think there is that consistency that has been a strength for us. They know what they are doing and are used to doing it," he said. 
He went on to say that he hopes his team does not per­form any differently overall due to the fact that they are in the playoffs. "We have had a lot of success, and I hope the girls understand that if we lose the season is over. I think they know that and will play tough." 
Cote said, "We are kind of rusty right now because of break, but I would say our offense is coming on strong and our passing game is looking good.'' 
Both coaches named players they are expecting to lead their teams into the first round. 
Not a Franchise!
A Family Owned Business 



We have started to take applications Ior next year. 
*ALL UTILITIES COVERED* 
Furnished apartments-indoor swimming pool -jacuzzi tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts 24 hour laundry-shuttle bus professional management. 
*Apartments available for 


your selection.* 
For more information call 272-1441 
These apartments will feature the high-efficiency, energy­saving heat pump. 

L.__________________________________~ ---------------
Borkowski singled out MT Kraft and Trish Sorensen and said that while neither has playoff experience, both have been leaders on the team for the past two seasons. 
"On defense, we are looking for Bridget Noonan to keep the team fired up," he said. 
Cote said, "We need Amy Granata to continue scoring touchdowns for the offense and making big plays for the defense. Also, Stephanie Reday will keep pressure on the quar­terback." 
Lyons vs. P.E. 

Both the 5-l Lyons and 2-1-3 Pasquerilla East interhall foot­ball teams have come a long way in the fight for number one 
Main & jefferson 
Hours 

M s 1 o 
on-at l: 0 a.m.-ll:OO p.m. 
Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $4995 , now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on ND football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634..1740 


in the women's league. However. as of Sunday in the frrst round of the playoffs, both teams will be starting from scratch. 
"We don't know much about Lyons," P.E. captain Sue O'Kain said. "We have heard they have a good quarterback who can run, so our defense has been practicing for what we hope is their offense." 
Lyons coach Kevin Kuwik said he would like to see his team's offense and defense click at the same time, some­thing they have struggled with in the past. 
"We haven't put a total game together yet," he said. "In prac­tice, we have been focusing on sharper execution. I think that is what it takes to win the championship. The key to our performance is intensity on defense right from the start and blocking on offense." 
While the Lyons team is look­ing to rely on their defense to lead them in the playoffs according to Kuwik, P.E. is looking to their experience in first round competition to guide them into the playoffs. 
O'Kain said, "Last year we made it to the playoffs, and we have a lot of returning players, so they understand the pres­sure. We are learning from last year. Our loss in the first round last year is our motivation to move on in the playoffs this year." 
To do that, O'Kain said her 
team is expecting and prepar­
ing for a quick Lyons' quarter­
back and practicing their own 
offensive execution. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25.CXJO Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: $2(1) 

• 
Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 
-
-~ 
I 
I I I i I I 
~ 
' 

• INTERHALL fOOTBAlL 

Fisher hoping for sweet revenge 
By NEIL ZENDER Sporrs Writer 
So maybe there's no World Series this year. Big deal. There's still the Interhall Football Playoffs. And no labor dispute is going to stop Stanford and Fisher from butting heads. 
It will be a duel of opposite styles at 2:00 on Sunday. Stanford isn't predictable. They're a downright obvious. They just run the football down your throat. Fisher is the league's maverick. They'll pass the ball as easily as some peo­ple pass the garlic bread. 
Stanford rides onto Stepan Field with a 3-1 record. They're hungry for a chance at Stadium. 
"I wasn't sure how our inten­sity would be coming off the break," Captain Chad Smock said. "But everyone's ready to start the drive to Stadium. We've had a couple of good practices. The team is ready to play." 
Stanford's gameplan isn't a secret. They'll use three options; running the football with superstar back Chris Pollina, running the football with fullback John Mele, and running the football with third back Doug Pollina. 
That has Fisher's Mike Carroll worried. 
"We've got to stop their run­ning game because they have a potent backfield." 
Stanford's only loss of the season came against Morrissey. The Manor was the only defense that ever stopped the Lethal Weapon 3 Backfield, holding them to less than 20 yards. If Fisher is going to stay with the Studs, they're going to have to play the defensive game of their life. 
"We're really excited about the challenge," Carroll said. "We think it's going to be a great contest." 
Fisher (2-2) is confident they can meet the challenge head on with their defense. Linebackers Brian Griffin, Chris Lary, and Andy Brant will try to make Stanford's backs pay for every yard. 
Freshman defensive end Sean Lynch is fast earning a reputa­tion as a stopper. Sunday's game gives him and his team­mates an opportunity to turn reputation into renown. 
Offensively, Fisher will prob­ably go to the air. Freshman quarterback Brian Hertz is a Cadillac. He'll aim for wide receiver Carroll, and talented tight end Dan McGinty. 
"Their major weapon is pass­ing." Smock said. "It's going to be interesting how we fair." 
A lot of that will rely on The Human Turnover Machine, Charlie Alger. The safety has intercepted six passes and recovered one fumble. That's a whopping seven turnovers in four games. 
When Fisher runs the ball, they'll let Lary, Jim Mullen, and John Knetz carry the load. 
Fisher has revenge on their mind. Last year they lost in semifinals to Stanford 10-7 in overtime. Only Sunday will tell if the second time's a charm. 
Zahm vs. Keenan 
The big question in Sunday's Zahm-Keenan showdown is whether the football teams or the fans should be wearing the pads. Tempers were running high at midnight on Wednesday. 
Incensed Zahm and Keenan residents shouted insults at each other in preparation for Sunday's showdown. Fortunately, physical conflict was avoided between the rival dorms. Make no mistake, this is a grudge match. Zahm and Keenan get along as well as Rush Limbaugh and Jane Fonda on a blind date. 
Zahm (2-0-2) is hoping for nothing -in the Keenan scoring column that is. Their defense has yet to allow a single point. 
"We have to continue our 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
• 
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 1WO BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE 

• 
WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

•GAS 
HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT • 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 232-8256 

shutout streak on defense," made great improvement Captain Dave Bozanich said. throughout the season." "Keenan's going to be a tough Bessette and crew are hop­team. But I don't think we ing to catch Zahm off-guard. have a weak link in our The key for the Knights will be defense, and if we do, nobody's to avoid the mental mistakes found it." they have made in games. If 
Keenan has struggled on Keenan can avoid shooting offense throughout the season, themselves in the foot, they can although they showed signs of start aiming at Zahm. blooming towards the end of the season. Quarterback Marc If Zahm can get their timing Bessette needs to step up and down, they be dangerous take control of the offense. through the air. The offense 
"He's improved every week," will rely on the shoulders of Captain Rob Rolf said. "He's Benji Hammond. 
"He just needs to settle every­body down and take control of the huddle. He's got the skills. He's got the talent. He's confi­dent in himself. He's the man to do the job." 
Hammond will throw to wide receiver Rick Rios. When Zahm runs the ball, it'll be in the hands of Matt Bundrick. 
Of course, the most interesting contest on Sunday might be the battle of the fans. They could provide the medical crew with the biggest headache of the year. 


'The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra 
Raymond Leppard, Conductor 
Sunday, November 20, 1994 2:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
.!Featuring the prerniere of 
Symphony: Winter Lightning 
composed by Jeffrey Jacob commissioned by Saint Mary's College 
Guest Artist: Jeffrey Jacob 
Pianist-in-Residence Saint Mary's College 
The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra will also perform: 
Brahms' Academic Festival Overture, Op. 80 Brahms' Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, Op. 68 
For information about tickets, please call the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 284-4626. 
Festival '9 

The Northeast Neighborhood Rejuvination Project 


Saturday, November 5th Fall Festival is a one-day service project to show Notre Dame's support for the South Bend Community. 
Students and residents will work together to beautify the Northeast Neighborhood by planting flowers and cleaning the interiors and exteriors of local homes. 
The project will be followed by a block party for all volunteers. 
If you are interested in being a part of Fall Festival '94, sign up in the dining halls, the CSC, or the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Any Questions, please call Karen DuBay at 271-8992. 


~ -~--------~--­
-

Friday, November 4, 1994 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
Fox also added goals of their own midway through the sec­ond half, and the Irish led 5-1. 
OThe biggest goal of the match came from Irish senior midfielder Rick Christofer. Christofer scored the first goal of his career at the 88th minute when he set up, and lined a shot over Schureck from 20 yards out to finalize the score at 6-2. 
Ar01y battles Air Force, hoopla 
By JOHN KEKIS much for the Black Knights to Associated Press talk about. The Army offense 
WEST POINT, N.Y. Air Force is coming to town? So what's the big deal? 
"I've never played against them," said Ronnie McAda, who will start at quarterback for Army on Saturday ''I'm not real sure what it's like. I know it's a big game." 
That's a start, Ronnie. 
Actually, that's probably ex­actly what Army (3-5) needs, a player leading the way that's oblivious to all the hoopla. 
"The past is the past," said McAda, a sophomore. "I haven't heard too much about the last five Air Force games." 
Probably because there's not 
?
• 
you the most!_ :;::AI+'''' 
This offensive outburst is the greatest since September 20 when the Irish defeated Detroit Mercy 8-0. Also, their four point margin of victory is the greatest since their 4-0 win over La Salle on September 25. 
-"It was due," Capasso said. "A few of the guys stepped up, and we didn't give up balls in the midfield. Finally, things came together." 
"We've been playing well all year," Berticelli added. "We just haven't finished well. We did tonight." 
Aside from the offense, the 
has managed just 15 points ­all on field goals -in those five games, all losses. And they haven't scored a touchdown against the Falcons (5-3) since they beat them 28-15 in a rain­storm at Michie Stadium in 1988. 
Air Force, which leads the series 16-11-1, is soaring. After an 0-3 start, the Falcons have reeled off five straight wins and have stopped the opposition in its tracks on the ground in the last three. Air Force held Navy to minus-6 yards rushing, 
Fresno  State  got  2,  and  
Wyoming man aged  27  last  
week.  

"Our team has matured with 
WEDNESDAY, NoVEMBER. 9, 1994 
6:15 TO 7:15 P.M. -0'5HAUGHNE55Y 
The Observer • SPORTS 
defense also deserves accolades as they shut out two of the top scorers in the country in Doug Tegge and Maurice Schilten. 
"Most importantly, we shut out two of the top scorers in the country," Berticelli commented. 
Yet, even with this dominat­ing victory, the Irish don't con­sider themselves the team to beat. 
"We're not the team to beat," Berticelli explained. "We're the lowest seed. That's how we look at it. We just have to take them one game at a time, and play our game." 
each game, and we have gotten better," Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry said. "And I think our team has gained some confi­dence. But you never know what's gonna happen till you line up and play. We're not looking beyond Army, this is our No. 1 goal." 
Quarterback Preston McConnell leads Air Force in rushing (535 yards) and has passed for another 614 and five touchdowns. Last week against Wyoming, McConnell rushed for 114 yards and was 7 of 11 passing for 142 yards and three touchdowns. For Army, Joe Ross ( 4 7 8 yards) and Kevin Vaughn (409) are the top rush­ers, while McAda has 347 rush­ing and 515 passing. 

FAIR. IS PR.OCEEDED BY AN OPTIONAL SESSION WITH DIAN MUR.R.AY 
on 
"Hov To CHoosE A MAJon." 
$ 5:00 TO 5:45 P.M. 114 0'5HAUGHNE55Y 
PAR.TICIPATING PR.OGR.AM5 INCLUDE: 

second major special programs African and African-American Studies CAPP (Computer Applications) Education Arts & Letters Preprofessional ALPP 
area studies African And African-American Studies European Studies Latin American Studies Mediterranean/Middle East Studies 
concentrations 

Film and Cultural Studies 
Gender Studies 
Hesburgh Program in Public Service 
Peace Studies 
Philosophy/Literature 
PPE: Philosophy, Politics, and Economics 





Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
Harris is 13th with an average of 0. 71 service aces in 7 8 games played. All-American outside hitter Christy Peters is 16th with an average of 4.76 kills per game, and junior set­ter Shannon Tuttle is 18th averaging 12.65 assists per game. 
Coach Brown is very happy with the team's performance, 
Irish 
continued from page 18 
weapon as opposed to fencing one weapon. Each of the five weapons, men's foil, epee, and sabre, and women's foil and epee, must together reach twenty-five points to win the match. One weapon fences at a time until one of the competi­tors reaches a multiple of five. 
"To have this tournament early in the season is good," DeCicco said. "We get a good and hopes it will continue as they head into tournament play at end of this month. 

"At this point in the season it starts to drag, but we are stay­ing focussed on achieving our goals," said Brown. "We aren't looking past teams, but we are looking toward the end of the season and tournament play." 
"It is important for us to con­tinue to playing well, and I have every reason to believe that we will." 
look at some of our talent, while also seeing how we com­pare with other midwestern teams." 
After first round pool competition, the pools will then be re-seeded and the teams will be put into direct elimination brackets. 
"We're confident about what we can do in Chicago," Hajnik added. "We've enjoyed the suc­cess of the past season, but we're trying to put that behind us for now and start this season right." 
• fENCING 

Irish confident about Invitational 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
During halftime of the Notre Dame-Stanford game on October 1, the 1993-94 Irish fencing team stepped onto the field. 
It would be one of the last times the team could celebrate the past year's accomplish­ments together. 
As the P.A. announcer an­nounced the team as the 1994 National Fencing Champions anrl urged the crowd to con­gratulate them, everyone in at­tendance realized the signifi­cance of the moment. 
While almost everyone cheered, the national champi­ons received a well-deserved standing ovation from large portion of the crowd. 
"Going out on the field was awesome," said two-time sabre captain Chris Hajnik. "It was nice to present the school with the trophy that we had earned." 
The Irish also received their championship rings in a week­end that brought many fencing alumni back to the campus. 
"To share the ring ceremony with the alumni who really built the program was a special treat," Hajnik said. 
The weekend was the culmi­nation of a storybook season for a team of overachievers that demonstrated an unshakable unity and received strong lead­ership from captains of each weapon last year. 
"Last season really defies ex­planation," said men's head coach Mike DeCicco who enters his 34th year as coach. "We had a lot of young, untested national competitors, but some of our younger fencers stepped up to take key leadership roles." 
Of the five captains last year, two are returning. Hajnik will once again lead the sabre team, while senior Stan Brunner, who was captain of the foil team last year, will officially wear that title this year. 

"The difference last year was the excellent leadership dis­played by our captains," added DeCicco. 
One of last year's heroes from the championships, senior Rakesh Patel, will take over the duties as men's epee captain. Junior Maria Panyi will head the women's foil team, while junior Claudette De Bruin moves from foil to take over as women's epee captain. 
With the new captains set, the Irish will tale their first step toward repeating this weekend as they journey to the Universtiy of Chicago to com­pete in the Chicago Invitational. Notre Dame will send five dif­ferent teams to the invite in or­der to evaluate some of their younger talent. 
However, as far as the first two teams go, the squads are almost set already. 
"This team has a good a chance as anyone to repeat," DeCicco said. "Especially with the No. 1 team we have. We lost some key people, but the talent is still there." 
That No. 1 team heading to Chicago consists of sophomores Jeremy Siek and Bill Lester at foil and sabre, respectively. Rounding out the team will be De Bruin at epee, Panyi in foil, and Patel at men's epee. 
The invitational features a unique scoring system in which the teams fence with each 
see IRISH I page 17 
Our River front, 5 year old, all one level, seven rooms, 60' deck 
home on the north bank of the St. Joe is for sale. 22 minutes from Notre Dame. 90 minutes from Chicago. Boating, fishi~, tennis. Across from Orchard Hills C. C. in Buchanan, MI. 
$259,000.00 3000 White Oaks Lane 616-695-5958 
Weekend open house • 
..The salmon are running" 
LiTuRGICAL CHOIR 
Fou::CHOIR 
WoMEN's CHOIR 
COROPPJMAYIRA DE NUESTRA SEtlORA 
V01crs oF FAITH GosPEL ENSEMBLE 
ST. PHILDMENA 



Friday, November 4, 1994 The Observer· TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 

SCOTT ADAMS THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


ofl1991fa,Works lncl0151trvUnM!rs.JIPfeSsSvndalt 


' 
Where we get calamari blanc 



Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
.. 


(yes, Keanu Reeves!) 
Both Friday & Saturday Nights! 

. ~ j 
i 1

9 p.m. . . . in the LOFT 
~ 
i 1 ;. 


1~ 
j l 

SPORTS 
page 20 Friday, November 4, 1994 
• VOLLEYBAll 
No.IO Irish netters take MCC road trip 

l 
[ • 
r 
ByRIAN AKEY Associate Spans Editor 
It took less than one half of play for the No. 1 Notre Dame women's soccer squad to break the Midwestern Collegiate Conference record for goals in a game. The Irish scored seven first-half goals against Wright State, and coasted to a 7-0 win in the opening round of the MCC tournament in Indianapolis. 
The 18-0-1 Irish also set three single season team records en route to the win over the Raiders. 
Freshman Holly Manthei set the all-time single-season assist record on the second Irish score when Kate Sobrero con­verted early in the period. The assist was Manthei's 23rd of the season. 
Less than ten minutes later, junior Rosella Guerrero set the all-time single-season goals scored mark when she knocked a header in for her 17th goal of the year. 
The shut-out was the 13th of the year for the Irish. also a single-season team record. The defensive effort was spear­headed by goalkeepers Jen Renola and Emily Loman. 
Sophomore Cindy Daws and senior Tiffany Thompson both scored their 12th goals of the season. 
Stacia Masters scored her first goal since she notched two in a September match against Indiana, while Jodi Hartwig scored after returning to the starting line-up from a two week absence. 
"It's a great way to start the post-season," said Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "Our philosophy was to put a lot of chances on goal and not wait for the perfect opportunity. We did that and got up early." 
The top-seeded Irish will face Xavier today, with the winner advancing to Sunday's champi­onship. 
Butler would likely be Notre Dame's opponent if the Irish were to advance to Sunday's game. Although the Irish beat the Bulldogs 4-1 earlier this season, Butler recently took No. 10 Wisconsin to the wire, and played N. 4 Duke into overtime. 
Conference awards were also presented at the tournament. The Irish placed six players on the MCC first-team, including MCC player of the year Rosella Guerrero and freshman of the year Holly Manthei. Joining them were McCarthy, Daws, Renola, and Sobrero. 
Senior co-captain Tiffany Thompson was named to the all-conference second team, while freshman Julie Maund and transfer Amy Van Laecke were named to the all-new­comer team. 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 

The tenth ranked Notre Dame volleyball team are looking to retain their reign of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference this weekend as they travel to Ohio to take on Wright State and Cleveland State. 
The Irish will bring their near flawless 23-2 record and their flawless 4-0 record in the MCC to Dayton on Saturday when they face Wright State. Wright State is 16-7 overall, 5-1 in the conference. They are currently in fourth place in the MCC. They have posted an impressive 10-3 record on their home court, but their schedule does not contain near the calibur of teams of the Irish schedule. 
While it will be the first meeting between Notre Dame and Wright State, the Irish are fondly familiar with Wright State's Nutter Center. It was the site of the 1991 National Invitational Volleyball Championship, in which the Irish advanced to the championship match, but lost in a five-game heart breaker to Kentucky. 
On Sunday, the Irish will travel to Cleveland State for a confrontation with a 10-15 Viking team. Cleveland State is third from the bottom of the conference with a 2-4 record. The Irish and the Vikings have met twice, but neither of the matches involved the current players or Irish Head Coach Debbie Brown. Cleveland State beat the Irish in 1983, but revenge was sought and found in 1986 when the Irish beat the Vikings at the North Star Tournament in Chicago. 
Neither of the matches are expected to give the top ten Irish much of a challenge, but it will be necessary for the team to play well and stay focussed heading into the end of the season. "We are looking to keep the focus on our side of the net," said Coach Brown. "We are in a good position now, and it is hard to stay motivated." 
Motivation has definitely not been a problem thus far this season. The Irish have .260 as team and held opponents to only a .160 average. The team has placed three players among the NCAA Division I statistical leaders. Freshman Angie 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 17 


Men win tourney opener 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sports Writer 
The pregame weather pre­dicted the outcome of (9-9-2) Notre Dame men's soccer game against (12-8) Xavier better than Nostradamus could have. The Irish reigned over the Musketeers 6-2 as their offense showered the Musketeer net early and often. 
The Irish dominated the Musketeers for the second time this year, and advanced to the semi-finals of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament. 
They will face (9-11) Butler. for the first time this season, today at Alumni Field at 6:00. Last year the Irish were 1-1 against the Bulldogs. Their win came in the MCC tourna­ment as they defeated the Bulldogs in the semi-finals. 
"We haven't seen Butler this year," coach Mike Berticelli said. "We just have to play our game. If we're good enough to win, we're good enough to win." 
Last night the Irish were more than good enough to win. The Irish offense dominated the game, and managed to set up over five one-on-one oppor­tunities against Musketeer goalkeeper Dave Schureck. 
Midfielder Konstantin Koloskov started the downpour as he headed in a crossing pass from Keith Carlson in the 11th minute of play. After that goal, the Irish were in com-

The Observ11f!John Bingham Jason Fox notched a goal in last night's 6-2 Irish win over Xavier in the opening round of the MCC tournament. 
plete control. In the second half the Irish 
Tim Oates added to his point didn't quit as Capasso convert­total later in the first half as he ed a penalty kick which was took a Bert Bader kick, and set up by a Chris Mathis drive drove it past a sprawling to the net. Carlson and Jason Schureck to put the Irish up 2­0. 
see SOCCER I page 17 

MEN'S TENNIS 


~ 
Men's vs.~ 
Notre Dame Butler 
• WHERE: Alumni Foeld
MCC
The Irish men's tennis squad traveled to the 
• 
WHEN: Today at 6:00 • SERIES: 2·2·1 

• 
LAST GAME: Irish 2.0


Rolex Championships this weekend. 
• OlliER GAME: Detroit Mercy vs. WISC. Milwaukee 
Soccer

NO TENNIS 
AUmni FJeld 3:00 
The Observer/Tom Roland 




