.....--~~~------------------------------------------------~ 

Wednesday, February 2, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 81 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Candidates debate wide range of student concerns 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Last night the four teams run­ning for student body president and vice-president highlighted their platforms and fielded questions at a debate in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
In alphabetical order the can­didates are Bryan Corbett and Karen DuBay, Brian Coughlin and Maria Capua, David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh, and Erin King and Detiz Lefort. 
Questions ranged from those of personal qualifications to specific working and lobbying methods the candidates would use with the administration. 
In response to a question re­garding the most important is­sue on their platform, presi­dential candidate Brian Corbett and running mate Karen DuBay named The Pub, a proposal which would utilize the LaFortune Ballroom (formerly Theodore's) for entertainment, food and drink. 
"Our most important concern on campus is student life," said Corbett. "(The LaFortune Ball­room) a completely wasted re­source. Lafortune, specifically Theodore's, was built to be a nightclub." 
Presidential candidate Brian Coughlin and running mate Maria Capua named their Req Sheet proposal as their most important proposal. 
"We figure that this is one piece of paper that can make such a difference in people's lives," said Coughlin. "There's a plan in progress already." 
The Req Sheet would list the classes a student has previously taken as well as the require­ments that still need to be ful­filled. Coughlin and Capua sug-gest that this sheet be sent through campus mail before DART begins so that students do not have to face long lines with their advisors. 

The main aim of presidential candidate David Hungeling and running mate Matt Orsagh is to dissolve student government and use its budget to fund a Grateful Dead concert. They also want to provide students with free football tickets. 
"We want to improve the en­tertainment aspect of student life," said Hungeling. "We have taken what most people have thought of as a joke and changed it into a campus-wide, grass-roots social movement." 
Presidential candidate Erin King and running mate Deitz Lefort named the expanded meal plan as their most impor­tant proposal. 
"With the meal account, you can choose to eat in LaFortune or the dining hall," said King. "We're providing an option." 
A number of students asked questions which centered on the connection between the candidates' campaign promises and current Student Govern­ment projects. 
Corbett and DuBay plan to extend two ideas from current student government projects. The Student Review will be based on this year's Guide, and the I.M.P.R.O.V.E program will build on the Job Network, two projects organized by Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellmann, the current student body president and vice-president. 
"We want to build on those ideas," said Corbett. "They just need to be refined... and made more accessible to the stu­dents." 
Corbette and DuBay want to expand the Job Network across the nation and also add alumni mentors to the current re­sources. The Student Review would circumvent faculty inter­vention and would be based solely on student evaluations. They also plan to offer students two DART times and expand Coughlin and Capua propose Dart hours into the evening. Safe Ride, an after-dark shuttle 

Coughlin and Capua are service for students from the "coming to the University with outer parking lots to their new ideas," according to dorms, a faculty mentor pro-Capua. 
In addition to the Req Sheet, see DEBATES I page 6 
Administrators view AIDS education as sufficient 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 
Recognizing that AIDS and HIV education should be a top priority at any university, vari­ous administrators at Notre Dame think that the University's informational pro­grams are well suited to pro­vide this service to its students. 
But when asked to evaluate the programs Notre Dame offers in comparison to other schools, officials cite student apathy and low program turnout. 
"There is just a great reluc­tance on the part of students to go to anything that speaks of AIDS," said Dr. James Moriarity. lead physician of the University Health Center. "This is not an excuse for not doing it, just a reality." 
But the relative lack of AIDS educational programs availible at Notre Dame could also be be­cause some administration members do not give the dis­ease high priority. 
"AIDS is not a serious prob­lem on this campus," said Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president of student affairs. 
On-campus opportunities of­fered by the Student Health Center include sporadic lec­tures, dormitory presentations, and literature about the dis­ease, Moriarity said. Two stu­dent-run groups, Students With AIDS Training (SWAT) and AIDS Aware, also offer AIDS education. 
Confidential testing is availi­ble at the Health Center. as is access to individual counseling for anyone who has tested posi­tive for HIV, he said. 
But University counseling ser­vices do not offer AIDS or HIV related sessions on-campus, only serve as a liaison for South Bend area groups that do. Moriarity cites a lack of need. 
Although the majority of AIDS and HIV awareness programs at other Universities typically include preventative sugges­tions about condom distribution and instruction, Moriarity said that the Catholic nature of Notre Dame collides with such suggestions but does not make the University's educational programs any less informative or effective. 
"We don't have to be a player in terms of distributing con­doms," he said. "There is no need for any educational tech­niques to involve changing the policy of the Catholic Church or the administration." 
Rather than focusing on birth 
AMERICA 
RESPONDS 

TO AIDS 

control as a preventative mea­sure, Notre Dame's programs strive to be informative. 
"Our efforts characteristically are programs designed to keep the issue on the forefront of our student's minds," said Rocca. 
Both alcoholism and AIDS are important subjects on college campuses today, said Rocca. But, the University funds a staff and office for Drug and Alcohol education while there is no such facility devoted to AIDS education. The need for such a facility does not exist at Notre Dame, Rocca said. 
Though it may not see AIDS as "a serious problem" on cam­pus, the administration did see the need to adopt the "University of Notre Dame AIDS Guideline" in 1986. 
The AIDS Guideline was written using outlines from the Center for Disease Control, and the American College Health Association, which is a private non-profit organization whose members are both educational institutions and individuals. 
It will soon be revised in order to reflect a change in the disease's terminology and data and to maintain compliance with Congressional legislation that has been implemented during the past eight years, said Rocca. 
Designed to both provide a basis for University decision­making and to address its responsibility to educate .the community, the document includes confidentiality policies, guidelines for individual and University responsibilities and employment procedures applic­able to those who have tested positive for HIV or have AIDS. 
The Guideline cites the importance of the role of edu­cation in stopping the spread of the disease, and refers to a variety of educational tools to be implemented by the University, including written materials, personal counseling, occasional audio-visual presen­tations, and a hot line estab­lished by the University Health Services to answer questions and address concerns of the community. 
With the exception of the hot line, all of the programs have been 
implemented. 
The Guideline also advocated the appointment of a University official or committee whose du­ties included remaining current on the issues of AIDS, serving as a community resource, overseeing educational pro­gramming, and serving as an advisor regarding a student or employee with AIDS or HIV. Those fell under the responsi­bility of the director of University Health Services, a position Carole Seager occupied until taking a similar job at Clemson University last month. 
During her nine years as director, Seager was instru­mental in developing the two student AIDS awareness groups, SWAT and AIDS Aware. She helped coordinate speakers on campus and design dorm presentations for assistant rec­tors, resident assistants (R.A.) and residents. 
In fact, at the beginning of each school year as a part of assistant rector and R.A. orientation, Seager ran a two­hour session educating partici­pants with a "behavioral focus" on the disease, she said. 
She has also organized presentations for dorm resi­dents by request basis. (Her successor will continue these 
see AIDS I page 4 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February 2, 1994 



INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Youth is a state of mind. Now what? 
I woke up yesterday-------­morning a new woman. My head was clear. My eyes were focused. My motor skills were intact. A day over 22, and I was radiant. 
I made it to class with time to spare. I took notes like a madwoman. I tack­led the problems facing contemporary society with graceful intelligence. 

It was amazing. It was ·ust like the morning after -------­my 21st birthday. 
Granted, there were a few minor exceptions. I mean, this time I didn't sleep until 3 p.m. I didn't wake up still tipsy with a headache the size of a house. My room didn't magically trans­form into an echo chamber. I remembered everything. And my friends weren't awarded with 10 hours of community service for illegally throwing a tequila party in my honor. 
But other than that, it was just like the morn­ing after my 21st. 
Turning 21 is a celebration, a rite of passage, a culmination of every other birthday that comes before it. 
Turning 22 is another story. It's a bit an­ticlimactic. This is not to say I did not celebrate or that I did not enjoy myself. It was just.. .different. 
Friends still wish you a happy birthday, it is usually followed with a "Man, you're so old." Which is usually followed by "So, what are you doing next year?" Which necessarily elicits such responses as "Uh ... shut up" and "How should I know, I'm a government major." 
And the end result is the stark realization that somewhere along the line, sometime when you weren't looking, the clock just kept moving and you are getting closer and closer to being an adult. 
A little mellow dramatic? Maybe. After all, "adult" has been a dirty word for some time now. As a child, being an adult was an un­fathomable concept. The closer you got to it, the further away it seemed. But still, you looked ahead with curiosity and anticipation. 
Birthdays have long been part of this process of looking ahead. 
After all, when you were 9 you wanted to be 10, right? It's double digits. And when you were 12 you want to be 13-the teens. At 15 you looked toward 16-the driver's licence (unless of course you grew up in New Jersey). At 17 you look toward 18-voting privileges. 
And so on. 

But once you make it to 22, there's really not much left. The next big one isn't until 65. And even then it's only Social Security and cheaper movies. 
So is this it? Have I suddenly hit my quarter­life crisis? 
Is it true that time is running out to do some­thing really bizarre? Can it be that at about 25 bizarre becomes immature? 
I doubt it. 

Actually, I'm pretty much counting on that being a giant lie we tell ourselves just so we can get really depressed on days that are supposed to be lighthearted and fun. 
I'm counting on the fact that I am pretty much still a child and that the exciting, albeit fright­ening, part of life is just about to begin. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author, and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
Meredith McCullough News Editor 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Viewpoint  
Beth Regan  Brian Seiler  
Mary Good  Mark Krejci  
Sports  Mike O'Hara  
Jonathan Jensen  Lab Tech  
Production  Macy Hueckel  
Christopher Mullins  Graphics  
Susan Marx  Brendan Regan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Bull Market Climbs 
NEW YORK 
If the 1990s were supposed to be a time of lowered expectations and economic retrenchment, someone for­got to tell investors in the stock market. 
Stock prices have taken an almost straight-up course since the start of the decade, carrying the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials into the unprecedented terri­tory of 4,000 in the early weeks of 1994. 
That's an advance of better than 65 percent for Wall Street's oldest and best known market indicator from its low four years ago of 2,365. 
All this has happened despite repeated warnings from many analysts that the market was over­priced, based on the standard yardsticks like price-earnings ratios and dividend yields. 
At least until very recently, the strength in stocks has grown against a backdrop of what many people considered sluggish and disap­pointing economic expansion in the 
:i~~~math of the 1990-91 reces-__ ~ 
Wall Street's contrary bulls ,..~,~ .,\' /'4 ­have taken their inspiration '~-. .' ~­from two interlinked devel­opments -reduced in­flationary pressures, and a prolonged decline of interest rates to their lowest levels in a generation. Whatever the economy is doing at the moment, 
President a little hoarse 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton has several factors working against him as he tries to regain his voice -his job, the weath­er, even his personality, doctors say. The president, sipping soothing tea along the way, suffered through back­to-back speeches on Tuesday, getting progressively more hoarse as the day wore on. ''I'm doing slightly worse," he acknowledged during the second 

appearance. "The good news is, you get a shorter speech." Clinton, plagued by chronic voice problems, has been troubled by this latest round of hoarseness ever since his 63-minute State of the Union speech on Jan. 25. Laryngitis is not unusual among people who use their voices a lot. Rest is the usual prescription, and that's just what Dr. Connie Mariano, a Navy physician, recommend­ed for Clinton. 
Father involved in twins' deaths 
MONROEVILLE 
The father of 14-month-old twins has been indicted on murder charges in their carbon-monoxide deaths, allegedly to collect on their life insurance policies. The Nov. 12 deaths of Kierra Letitia and Tyeshia Sierra Kidd initially were blamed on a faulty heater, but District Attorney Tommy Chapman said an investigation "showed this was a homicide as opposed to an accident." Stanley Kidd, 27, had picked up the toddlers at their baby sitter's home and brought them to the residence of his ex-wife, Sandra Dale, who was at work at the time. Each baby had an $8,000 insurance policy, authorities said. Kidd had been paying $800 in monthly child sup­port. Kidd was indicted Monday and released on $150,000 bond. He faces the death penalty if convicted. 



"low interest rates and inflation are keys to future eco­
nomic growth," said Vincent Agnew of the investment 
management group at Chicago Title and Trust Co. Yields at 3 percent or less on money-market funds and 
bank investments such as certificates of deposit have 
spurred demand for stocks as investors sought a better 
place to put their money. "Those who are bearish on the prospects for the stock market observe that the dividend yield at 2.8 percent was near all-time lows," noted Edward Yardeni, chief 
economist at C.J. Lawrence­Deutsche Bank Securities Corp. 
"That's true, but the rate of return on safer, alternative assets is also historically low." 
In fact, Yardeni says, the ratio of dividend yields to key short-term interest rates is near a modern­day high, leading him to the con­clusion that "dividend yield is bullish, not bearish." 
One prime conduit for the flow of money into stocks has been mutual funds, which have seen their overall assets virtually dou­ble to $2 trillion since the start of the decade. 
"Since bank deposits were unchanged during 1993, it appears that the mutual fund sec­tor absorbed practically all of last year's expansion in household savings," noted David Hale, chief economist at Kemper Securities, a Chicago-based investment firm. 
Needy win in Super Bowl 
ATLANTA 
The Super Bowl is providing some super eating for din­ers at the city's shelters and soup kitchens. On Monday, a food bank collected 850 pounds of rabbit stew, beef tenderloin, buffalo steaks, stuffed peppers and apple tarts from the Taste of the NFL, for which chefs from the 28 National Football League cities create culinary mas­terpieces. "It's a windfall," said Carl Jaffar, who works for the Atlanta Community Food Bank. In the next few days, the food bank will collect a total of 15,000 pounds of leftovers from Super Bowl celebrations. That's 50 per­cent more than it normally collects in a week from con­vention centers, restaurants and institutions. It took three people two hours to load 1 ,400 pounds of food from the kitchen at the Georgia Dome, site of Sunday's victory of the Dallas Cowboys over the Buffalo Bills. Po­lenta topped with grilled vegetables, loins of tuna, pasta and chocolate crepes went to a West End soup kitchen and an alcohol treatment center. 
Technology aids neo-Nazi movement 
BERLIN 
A year-old computer network has become the com­munications backbone of Germany's neo-Nazi scene, with users sharing ideas on how to rid Germany of for­eigners, coordinate illegal rallies and swap bomb-making recipes. The "Thule Network," guarded by passwords and loyalty tests, consists of at least a dozen bulletin boards in three western states, according to law enforce­ment officials and computer experts. It is used by extreme rightists to avoid detection by police unfamiliar with new computer technology. The network computers call one another nightly and exchange files. Important information -such as contact numbers for transporta­tion on the eve of a big rally -can be disseminated in a few hours and without a paper trail. 
Wednesday, February 2, 1994 

Student lecture series part of 150th celebration 
By PATII CARSON 
News Writer 
To continue the Sesquicen­tennial celebration, a Student 
!:N:ljlii1Jifln'l=im;h1!6• 
Lecture Series is planned for 
this semester, according to 
Vice-President for Academic 
Affairs Lynn O'Donnell at last 
night's Board of Governance 
(BOG) meeting. 
Senior Megan Dalsaso will 
give her talk entitled "The 
World is My Classroom" on 
Feb. 22 at 7 p.m. in· Stapleton 
Lounge. Ann Marie Zielonka 
will speak on Mar. 22 at 7 p.m. 
in Stapleton about why she 
came to Saint Mary's College 
and how it has changed her. 
Emma Assenga, a Saint 
Mary's student from Tanzania, 
will speak of her experience 
abroad on Apr. 19 at 7 p.m. in 
Stapleton Lounge. 
In Other Business: 

•The 
"Play of the Mind" con­ference is Feb 4 to 6. Anyone interested who did not fill out an application may talk to Associate Dean of Faculty Patrick White today about par­ticipation. 

• 
BOG members also dis­cussed ways in which to edu­cate the Saint Mary's communi­ty so as to let students become more aware of the extra-curric­ular activities available on cam­pus. 

•The 
mandatory meeting for Storybook Festival volunteers if Feb. 17 at 5:30 in Haggar Parlor. 

•BOG 
members discussed the possible recognition of two clubs on the Saint Mary's cam­pus. Next week, the board will vote on the Notre Dame Pre-Vet club, which is an organization hoping to incorporate Saint Mary's. Board members will also vote whether or not to give club status to a group which entertains children at a home­less shelter on the weekends. 



HPC sponsors Building Peace Conference 
By JOSLIN WARREN 
News Writer 
The Hall Presidents Council is sponsoring the Building Peace conference on Feb. 26 and en­courages participation in the event to strengthen interaction among students, according to 
I: r:l! I Ujl fjIn =I'IfJSillhi!B II 
Council Co-Chairman Chris 
Canzoniero. 
"We would really like to en­courage students to get in­volved in this project," said Canzoniero. "It's important to build unity among the stu-
TAl£ THE lEYs 
CAli ACAB. TAlE ASTAID 

fRifNDS DON'T lH fRifNDS OA!Vf DRUNK 
dents." 

The Building Peace Confer­ence is a one-day conference in which graduate and under­graduate students can discuss a paper, project, or some other work in progress involving peace with their peers. It is meant to emphasize student in­teraction and dialogue. 
In other Council news, the university is starting The Coun­cil Line, a help line that stu­dents can call Monday through Thursday from 4p.m. to12 a.m. if they have a specific problem. Topics include friendship build­ing and coping with stress. 
Badin Hall is putting on an Aerobathon at Stepan Center on Saturday, Feb. 9. Admission is $3 for as many one-hour classes as you want to take. The Women's Volleyball team and the Men and Women's Soc­cer teams will hosting some of the sessions. 
Last year they raised $4000 and this year the money raised from the event will be donated to the Mara Fox Scholarship Fund. 

-~--~---~-~~-~-----­
The Observer/Laura Grandahl 
Chit Chat 

Two students take a break between classes for some small talk. 



Divorce increases lonliness oflife 
By W. HUDSON GILES 
News Writer 

"Loneliness is a condition of life, and divorce intensifies it," was the underlying theme of Brother James Greteman's lec­ture last night on divorce and its effects upon a family. 
There are three primary stages associated with the di­vorce process: the death of the relationship, the period of mourning and the emotional steps back, according to Greteman. 
There is a great deal of sensitivity felt by divorce partic­ipants that can be remedied through a three-step recovery process, according to Greteman. 
The first step is to break the pattern of negative surround­ings. The second deals with physical attributes. Greteman suggested eating guidelines, moderate exercise, and sup­plementary activities to fill time voids. The final step involves time for recovery. 
"Let your heart heal, " Greteman said. "It takes time." 
Greteman went on to say that a certain degree of non-exces­sive blaming as well as forgiv­ing is important in redeeming personal stature. 
"Forgiveness heals wounds," he said. "Blame keeps them open." 
Humor is also an important variable that often helps in holding back tears, Greteman said. 
To compliment his three-step process, Greteman added three sub-steps which aid in coping with the traumatic experience of divorce. 
Continuity, he said, allows for sufficient time for repetition and reparation. 
Stability provides the correct environment to support bond­ing. 
Finally, mutuality reinforces interaction between two people, he stated. 
Everyone needs a "safe place" where they can feel comfortable and make it possi­ble to deal with their emotions in a coherent manner, Greteman said. 
He advised that getting in­volved in a vicious circle with the estranged spouse is detri­mental to overall recovery be­cause no progress is made. 
"Change your mental think­ing" was the advice he offered to parents involved in a divorce. 
The normal person's thinking pattern is as follows: the self (you) comes first, then the spouse, and then others, ac­cording to Greteman. 
This often gets reversed, he continued, observing that indi­viduals, especially mothers, be­come preoccupied and as a re­sult put others first, then the spouse, and fmally themselves. 
The minimum amount of time for recovering from a divorce is somewhere between nine to 14 months, Greteman said. 
The actual length of the emo­tional divorce process, though, is anywhere from four to five years. 
This time is instrumental in showing people that divorce is not the end of the world, ac­cording to Greteman. 
"People who have gone through broken relationships are some of the happiest people I know," he said. 
Greteman is the author of many books dealing with mar­riage,_ relationships, and di­vorce. He is a certified clinical social worker and hypnothera­pist and has been giving work­shops on divorce for 8 years. 
"People going through broken relationships should be gentle with themselves," he said. 
He closed the lecture with a proverb relating to someone who has trouble accepting a di­vorce. "He who walks around all day with a loose rock in his shoe has a loose rock in his head." 
AFRICAN AMERICANS IN DEFENSE OF OUR NATION Wednesday, February 2, !994 7:00p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium Guest Speakers for Presentation are: Lt. Charles Anderson-Naval Aviator  ~OBSERVER  
is now accepting applications for Managing Editor Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be com­fortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any full-time Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is encouraged to apply. Business Manager  
Mr. Jesse Arbor-Golden Thirteen Member Ledr. Glenn Sigler-Naval Flight Officer Lt. Karen McGraw-General Officer Sponsored by The Department of the Navy and the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs  Any sophomore or junior Business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills, and a basic understanding of accounting principles. Please submit a 3 page personal statement ofintent and a resume to jake Peters by Friday, February 4 at 5p.m. For questions about the positions call Managing Editor, Kevin Hardman at 631-4541 or Business Manager Brian Kennedy at 631-5313 .  

.• )1 )"oiO.V• L'.t:-\"t''•. 

~ ··~ ~ • --... ---------------------------------------------.... -.-.-_t ..... ~ ...... -·-........ ,.• 
---------~~---~-~-------~---------~~--­
r 
~ page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 2, 1994 
~ 
t f Bayh strengthens ties with 
! 

President Clinton 
Associated Press 
After watching the Super Bowl with President Clinton and raising a record $2 million at a Democratic Governors' As­sociation dinner, Gov. Evan Bayh planned to spend Tuesday night in the White House. 
The giddy governor didn't even care if he got a bed after a highly successful trip to the na­tion's capital. 
''I'd sleep on the floor if that's all they had," Bayh gushed Monday night after pre­siding over the largest Democratic Governors' Asso­ciation fund-raising dinner ever. 
About 1,400 people, includ-

Aids 
continued from page 1 
activities, which have met with favorable response from vari­ous hall staff members, she said.) 
"There is plenty of opportuni­ty to have seminars on AIDS education and materials availi­ble to students in the dorm," said Sister Marietta Murphy, rector of Badin Hall. "The con­cern is there." 
Although the concern may be there, the optional presenta­tions that the Health Center offers to interested dorms are met with such apathetic stu­dent response that they are rarely held. 
"There are so many times when the dorm coordinator of these programs does not even show up," said Ruthann Heberle, coordinator of medical services for the Health Center, who organizes the presenta­tions. "It is indicative of how at risk the students think they are." 
Still, Heberle was invited to organize two presentations last semester in Knott and Siegfried Halls and plans another in Pas­querilla West for Feb.10. 
"Its an important issue to be 
lfUY ~ SfiiN& BW Utt/
SPRING 



BREAK
COMPLETE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH 


LAS VEC:AS VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANC: ISLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDC:E/KEYSTONE 
Fill AIIIITilNAL l'flfiMA110N I RESBIVIIliWS 
l!·~~a~~U_N~~'!S_EI
~~~~~~ 
ing Clinton and most of his Cab­inet members. turned out for the $1,500-a-plate affair. 
The attendance and the $2 million raised both were new marks for the event. Proceeds will be used to elect Democratic governors. 
Even after five years in of­fice, Bayh, 38, still is the youngest governor in the United States. "Was I ever that young'?" Clinton wondered as Bayh introduced him at Mon­day's dinner. 
Bayh is the new president of the association, a title Clinton held when he was Arkansas' top executive. 

addressed on this campus," she said. "Students here know they are intellectually at risk, but in their hearts they don't think they are. They know the facts but don't consider themselves." 

Welfare reforms encourage governors 
ByJOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Governors concluded their winter meeting Tuesday en­couraged by pledges from Pres­ident Clinton and congressional leaders that federal welfare re­form will leave states free to continue radical welfare-to­work experiments. 
"Our top priority ought to be to stay out of your way" on wel­fare reform, Senate Republican leader Bob Dole told the Na­tional Governors Association. 
"We will learn what to do from the states," Senate Fi­nance Committee Chairman Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D­N.Y., told the governors. "You teach us and we will pass the bill." 
Over the course of their four­day meeting, the governors sought financial relief from the federal government in a host of areas they said were its re­sponsibility, from paying the medical, school and prison costs of illegal immigrants to funding the costs of environ­mental cleanups ordered by Washington. 

They also adopted a biparti­san framework on health care reform that required significant compromises by both Democrats and Republicans and offered it as a framework for congressional negotiations. 
At the closing session Tues­day, Moynihan, Dole and Clin­ton all promised the governors to model federal welfare reform on the successes of state exper­iments, incorporating a time limit on benefits while pushing recipients into jobs. 
"We need to have a system that says anybody who can work and support themselves and their families must do so, in the private sector where pos­sible, with a community service job if that's the only work avail­able, to make welfare a second chance, not a way of life," Clinton said. 
Neither he nor the congres­sional leaders offered any specifics on what the federal overhaul would look like. 
At a roundtable discussion of state efforts, governors of both parties said states need leeway to decide when to cut off bene­fits, and what training should be required before recipients are forced to work. 
"The innovative, energetic change and reform takes place out in the states," said Republi­can Gov. John Engler of Michi­gan. 
During the discussion, the governors swapped stories about what worked in their states. Delaware's Thomas Carper, a Republican, said an aggressive effort to identify fa­thers had increased the pater­nity determination rate among his state's welfare cases to 75 percent, well above the 50 per­cent national average. 
GOP Gov. William Weld of Massachusetts his state has im­proved its child support en­forcement using "10 Most Wanted" posters of deadbeat dads. 

HUMANITAS 
The College of Arts and Letters Undergraduate Jottrnal 
is seeking INTERESTED STUDEN'fS to be this year's staff editors and INTERESTING ESSAYS for the spring edition of the journal. 
INTERESTED STUDENTS should attend a brief information meeting on Friday February 4 at 3:30 p.m. in 115 O'Shaugnessy. 
INTERESTING ESSAYS should be -from the College of Arts and Letters -written in English -less than 30 pages long -analytically oriented 
(No creative writing exercises or personal essays.) 
PLEASE SUBMIT* 1) Three copies of the essay WITHOUT your name anywhere on them 
2) A cover sheet with: your name campus address campus phone number year in school title of the essay class for which the essay was written. 
DEADLINE: Friday, February 18th at 8:00 a.m. Please leave all materials in a sealed envelope in the Humanitas mailbox located in the English Department Office -­356 O'Shaugnessy. 
QUESTIONS? Please contact Becky Kroeger (4-2915) or Professor Christopher Fox (1-7226). 
*Please no more than 1 submission per student. 
Wednesday, February 2, 1994 


SMC unveils quilt squares 
By CLAUDIA TUDISCO 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's will unveil its 
Sesquicentennial Quilt, entail­
ing hundreds of quilted 
squares prepared by those in 
the Saint Mary's community, 
at the Cushwa-Leighton 
Library in September 1994. 
In the development of this 
year's calendar, the 
Sesquicentennial 
Subcommittee on Cultural 
Events felt that a quilt of this 
magnitude would be an ap­
propriate idea in order to 
commemorate Saint Mary's 
past 150 years. This unique 
aspect of asking anyone 
involved in the Saint Mary's 
community to come forth and 
share of themselves in their 
quilt square will make this an 
even more personal and trea­
sured collection. 
The committee is encourag­
ing Alumnae, current stu­
dents, Sisters, faculty, ad­
ministration and staff to come 
forth and share their creativi­
ty. One does not have to be 
proficient in needlework or 


quilting in order to take part 
in this activity. 
Certain guidelines for 
preparation of each square 
must be met. Each square 
should be of medium weight 
cotton with a total of 13 1/4 
inches, 12 inch square with a 
5/8 inch seam allowance on 
all sides. The squares can be 
done in any style including 
patchwork, applique shapes, 
embroidery, or lettering as 
long as each person's signa­
ture is shown. 
The quilt squares must be 
sent to Marcia Rickard, in the 
Art Department, no later than 
July 1, 1994. Questions con­
cerning the quilt can be di­
rected to Maureen Manier, di­
rector of communications. 
The Observer • NEWS 


China takes positive steps towards basic 
By RITA BEAMISH Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
China took "some positive but limited steps" on human rights last year, but still en­gaged in torture, arbitrary de­tentions, forced confessions and extra judicial killings, the State Department said today. 
As a deadline approaches for President Clinton to decide on renewing China's low-tariff ac­cess to U.S. markets, the State Department's annual human rights report concluded: 
"Fundamental human rights provided for in the Chinese constitution frequently are ig­nored in practice, and chal­lenges to the Communist Par­ty's political authority are often dealt with harshly and arbitrar­ily." 
China was not alone -the report found respect for human dignity and worth to be lacking in countries spread across the world. Also among the worst offenders were Iran, North Ko­rea, Burma, Zaire, Peru, Cuba, Turkey, Egypt and Indonesia­countries that allow torture and executions. 
"The world falls far short of the ideals of human freedom and dignity," Secretary of State Warren Christopher said today. 
The report chronicles killings, torture, rape and arbi­trary detention "committed all too often against those who sought political freedom or against those for reasons of ethnic origin, race, gender or faith," Christopher said in a speech prepared for delivery before leaders of human rights organizations. 
China is receiving special scrutiny because Clinton has set improvements in human rights as a condition of renew­ing China's most-favored­
nation trade status in June. 
U.S. officials have repeatedly stressed in recent weeks that steps taken by China so far do not meet the criteria set by Clinton. 
In 1993, the report said, China took "some positive but limited steps," including re­lease of prominent political prisoners. But "perhaps thou­sands" of prisoners remain in detention, it says. 
China has taken a few more steps this year that are not re­flected in the 1993 report. Those moves -release of more prisoners, opening of discus­sions with the Red Cross for in­spection of prison conditions and agreeing to allow U.S. offi­cials to verify that prison labor­ers are not producing goods for export -were expected to be included in State Department testimony to Congress today. 
But new reports of religious persecution, with new arrests of priests and bishops, have come even as China took those steps. 
In its worldwide report, the State Department singled out the rights of women for special attention, citing the prevalence of marital rape, the African practice of female genital muti­lation, sexual violence and forced prostitution, as well as gender discrimination in voting, marriage, travel and child cus­tody. 
"That female life is not val­ued as much as male life is ap­parent in countries such as China where it is reported that more female fetuses than male are aborted," the report said. 
Armed conflict in the former Yugoslavia-where "the car­nage continues" -and else­where gave rise to significant human rights abuses as well as civilian deaths and refugee flows, the report said. 


Ifyou missed ]PW '94 seating registration it will be held again 
. :··:·==:::-::·::··:·:,:::;''·,·· 

Monday, January 31 thi'U Wednesday, February~ 4 p.m.-9 p.m. 


CCE Room 112 
Absolute Last Chance. 
The Observer/Laura Grandahl 

Refreshments and recruiting 
Saint Mary's freshman Myrna Maloney enjoys some refreshments as she signs up for a committee at a Toastmasters meeting last night. 
New import laws provoke riots against Korean police 
ByJIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate prodded the ad­ministration Tuesday to take a more aggressive stance toward North Korea by seeking inter­national trade sanctions and deploying Patriot missile batteries in South Korea. 
In a non-binding voice vote, the Senate also said the United States should go ahead with joint military exercises with South Korea to show its strong commitment to the South's de­fense. 
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., author of the bill, said North Korean leaders are intimidat­ing the United States with its nuclear weapons designs because of a "failure of nerve" on the part pf the administra­tion. 
"We have served up enough carrots to North Korea," he said. "The time has come to show them the stick." 
The "sense of Congress" statement is an amendment to the State Department authorization bill. 
The Senate was closing out more than a week of debate on the bill, which authorizes more than $12 billion in spending for the State Department and re­lated agencies in 1994 and 1995. The House passed a simi­lar version last summer. 
Senate Democrats accepted McCain's amendment but re­jected his premise that the Clin­ton administration has been weak in its response to the North Korean nuclear threat. 
"The administration has made it very clear that more is needed," said Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass. "Wise statesmanship dictates that you don't leap to that confrontational stage with a country like North Korea be­fore you have made clear that all the other efforts and av­enues have been explored." 
The amendment says the United States should seek in­ternational consensus to isolate North Korea economically until it halts its nuclear weapons program and consents to In­ternational Atomic Energy Agency inspections of all its nuclear-related facilities. 
The administration says it would support U.N. sanctions against North Korea if current talks between the IAEA and Py­ongyang fail to find a solution to the inspection issue. 
U.S. negotiators have also in­dicated a willingness to cancel U.S.-South Korean military ex­ercises as part of an agreement on inspections. 
McCain's amendment says the United States should ensure it has sufficient forces in the Pacific region, including Patriot missiles, the legislation says. President Clinton is now con­sidering a request by the U.S. military commander in Korea for the anti-missile defense sys­tem. 


YOU CAN SEND YOUR 
"SPECIAL SOMEONE" 


A VALENTINE MESSAGE ON VALENTINES DAY FOR $20.00 
The ad would be this size and must be submitted ry 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 10 to the advertising department for The Observer (Jrd floor LaFortune) 

Forfurther information, call 631-6900 




page 6 Wednesday, February 2, 1994 

Debates 
continued from page 1 
gram and increased study space. 
"We brainstormed ideas with people around the campus... and all we need is the go ahead," said Capua. 
"There are some things that need to be changed, according to Coughlin. "We may not have the great, lofty, revolutionary goals, but these are goals that are going to make a differ­ence." 
Hungeling and Orsagh plan to discontinue all current student government projects . 
"We're going to stop (their activities)." said Hungeling. "We think students want to spend their money on fun." 
In the event that the Grateful Dead may not able to come, Hungeling suggests a campus bus trip to the Rosemont Hori­zon in Chicago or another audi­torium. If the University refused to provide students with free football tickets, Hungeling pro­poses that the student body boycott a game and tailgate in 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

the parking lot with big screen 
A required prejudice reduction workshop for all freshman was proposed
TVs. 
in the student body debates last night by the Erin King/Detiz Lefort tick­
"Let NBC stare at our empty seats. We are willing to do et.. whatever it takes," said Hun­
prejudice reduction workshop After their opening state­directed two specific questions The election will be heldgeling. 
for freshman. ments, the candidates an­to the ticket of their choice. The Monday, Feb. 7. If one ticketKing and Lefort plan to offer "These are little things that swered questions from Notre floor was opened up to general has not received over 50 per­The Loop, a shuttle from D-2 to we're going to accomplish in a Dame's media and the audi­question from the audience in cent of the votes cast, a runoffthe Bookstore and the Rock, a big way. Student safety and ence. Each media organization the third round, which was fol­between the two highest ticketsCar Co-op, bundle drop-off from convenience is going to equal directed their first question to lowed by closing statements. will be held Wednesday, Feb. 9. 
St. Michael's Laundry to stu­
The Observer/Jake Peters 

In last night's debates in the Lafortune Ballroom, Grace Hall junior Brian Coughlin and Walsh Hall junior Maria Capua presented their idea of implementing a "Safe Ride" shuttle service if elected. 
student satisfaction," said all of the teams. In the second dents dorms, and a mandatory Lefort. round, the media organizations 


Ifl.. 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE.::::::! STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM
-uF presen~
ll§(U) 

International Festival 
FROM REGIONALISM TO NATIONALISM 
IN VICTORIAN CATHOLIC AMERICA:
Saturday, February 5th 
CATHOLIC WRITERS OF THE 1880'S

8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
Paul Robichaud, CSP The Catholic University of America 
Admission: Students $3.00 General Admission $5.00 Thursday, February 3
Tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk, at the door, and in ISO affairs office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge
Enjoy an evening with us. An evening full ofdances, songs and acts from all over the globe. 

SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS *Information Meeting February 2 6:30 -7:00 pm 





Free Pizzo
Center for Social Concerns 
..4J>PLICATION DEADLINE February 11 
Tonight at 
$1500.00 SCHOLARSHIP (ND students only) Alumni-Senior Club 
Eight weeks of service work during the summer 
In cities of ND Alumni Clubs across the US Come and find out what SSPs are all about 
.. 

Wednesday, February 2, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Mullins resigns from Federal Reserve . Plans to enter the private business world 
By JOHN D. McCLAIN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

David W. Mullins Jr., today announced his resignation as vice chairman and member of the Federal Reserve Board. 
Mullins' resignation, effective Feb. 14, provides President Clinton with his second oppor­tunity to appoint a Fed gover­nor. Wayne D. Angell is retiring later this month and is expect­ed to be succeeded by econo­mist George Perry of the Brookings Institute. 
Mullins, 47, said he plans to enter private business. 
"Since most of the financial and economic problems, which have been the focus of my pro­fessional energies in recent years, have been essentially re­solved, I feel now is the appro­priate time to turn to new and different challenges," he said in a statement. 
Mullins' resignation came a day after Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, served notice on Congress and the nation that the Fed was poised to increase interest rates. 
Greenspan said it was only a matter of time before the institution would move to con­strict the money supply. He said the aim would be to avoid the mistakes of past Fed chiefs who waited too long before tighten­ing up on credit and thus allowed inflation to get out of hand. 
Mullins was sworn in a board member on May 21, 1990, and as vice chairman on July 24, 1991. Before joining the Fed, he was assistant secretary of the treasury for domestic finance from 19 8 8 to 1990 and played a major role in develop­ing the savings and loan bailout. 
He plans to be come a part­ner in Long-Term Capital Management, L.P., a recently formed investment manage­ment firm specializing in the development and application of sophisticated financial technol­ogy on a global basis. The firm is headquartered in Greenwich, Conn. 
Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said in a statement: 
"I wish my two departing colleagues well in their future endeavors. Only those of us who have had the privilege of working with David Mullins and Wayne Angell on a day-to-day basis can fully appreciate the contributions they have made to the success of the Federal Reserve system during their tenures. To say they will be missed in an understatement. They have been close personal friends and trusted colleagues." 
Angell, a Kansas banker, farmer and university profes­sor, has not announced his plans. He leaves office Feb. 9. 
Successors to Angell and Mullins requires Senate confir­mation. 
Both Mullins and Angell have said they will not attend the Thursday-Friday meeting of the Federal Open Market Commit­tee, the central bank's mone­tary policy-making body, which controls short-term interest rates. 
The FOMC is comprised of the seven Fed governors and five of the 12 presidents of Fed regional banks. 

Clinton defends health-care plan 
ByNANCYBENAC 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton cautioned against mere tinkering with America's health-care system Tuesday and insisted he would settle for nothing less than guaranteed insurance for all. His chief Republican critic held out new hope for compromise. 
After back-and-forth appear­ances by Clinton and Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole be­fore the nation's governors and the American Hospital Associa­tion, the president said he came away encouraged about prospects for reform. 
"You seem to have a leaven­ing effect on the political rhetoric of the nation's capi­tal/' Clinton told members of the National Governors Association. 
Dole, speaking just before Clinton, told the governors they "may have laid out a frame­work for the rest of us to rally around and talk about." 
He was referring to the gov­ernors' newly minted "call to action" on health care. It stops short of some of Clinton's goals, but includes a GOP concession that employers be required to make coverage available to workers. 

Dole seemed intent on keep­ing Republicans involved in the debate, telling his party, "We're going to be up in· the bleachers when the parade goes by unless we get our peo­ple together," the Kansan said. 
As Congress continues hear­ings on health care, he added, "we may be able to resolve some of these issues that look impossible now because we have just gotten started." 
Dole repeated Republican opposition to Clinton's proposal that employers be required to pay at least 80 percent of their workers' health-care premi­ums. Clinton countered, "I still believe in the requirement for employers to cover their em­ployees." 
The president, in two speeches that nearly exhausted his voice, affirmed his State of the Union declaration that uni­versal coverage must be a part of any health-care plan. 
"We have to do it now," he told the hospital executives. "And what we have to do in­cludes providing guaranteed private insurance to every sin­gle American." 
"What normally happens around here is that everybody gives their speeches and then we have Washington-style re­form where we tinker at the edges .... That's what we've been doing for years," he told the governors. 
Casting the debate in fman­cial terms, he added: "Without full coverage, I don't see any way to avoid the conclusion that states will continue to bear a disproportionate burden of skyrocketing health-care costs." 
At both appearances, Clinton criticized competing plans that would make workers' health­care benefits subject to income taxes, saying it makes more sense to tackle waste and inef­ficiency in the current system. 

Clinton names nation's Chief civil rights enforcer 
By MICHAEL SNIFFEN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton selected Deval Patrick, who rose from poverty to partner in a presti­gious Boston law firm, to be the nation's chief civil rights enforcer Tuesday. Clinton as­serted conservative critics of Patrick "don't give a rip about civil rights." 
Patrick won immediate praise from rights activists and from members of the Congressional Black Caucus who had been critical of Clinton's failure to fill the Justice Department post dur­ing more than a year in office. 
Conservatives, however, had opened fire on Patrick as a "stealth Guinier" even before Clinton announced the nomination at the White House. 
They tried to link Patrick's views to those of his one-time co-worker, Lani Guinier, Clin­tQn's frrst nominee to the Jus­tice Department post. Clinton withdrew her nomination last June after conservative criti­cism of her legal writings, some of which Clinton said surprised even him. 
But in the Oval Office on · Tuesday, Clinton declared that both Patrick and Guinier "have had distinguished careers in trying to enforce the civil rights laws of the coun­try." And he rebuked critics of Patrick. 
"A lot of those people are going to be exposed because they never believed in the civil rights laws, they never believed in equal opportunity, they never lifted 1l finger to give anybody in the minority race a chance in this country," he said. "If they attack his · record, it means just exactly what we've all expected all along: They don't give a rip about civil rights." 
Patrick, a native of Chicago's rough south side, brought his wife and two daughters to the ceremony. "I am humbled," he said, "because I know that I am standing here on the shoulders of . . . those courageous advo·­cates of every type and kind who had the guts to stand up in some court somewhere and give the Constitution life. I 
pledge to be true to that lega­cy. 
"Patrick has exceptional legal and civil rights creden­tials," said Ralph Neas, direc­tor of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, a coalition of major groups. ''I'm confident that a strong biparti­san majority in the Senate will confirm his nomination" as assistant attorney general in charge of the civil rights divi­sion. 
Elaine Jones, director-coun­sel . of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, where Patrick and Guinier both worked in the mid-1980s, said, "The presi­dent has selected well. Deval Patrick is an American success story.... He is a very able lawyer who has a healthy dose of commitment to poor people and an overwhelming sense of fairness." 
Acquaintances of Patrick have heard him describe arriv­ing as a scholarship student at Milton Academy, a Massachusetts prep school, and hearing other students complain about the lack of pri­vacy they all had in a large dormitory rooms. 
Patrick was secretly delight­ed just to have his own bed. Growing up, Patrick, his sister and mother shared a bunk bed -each one taking turns on the top bed, the bottom bed and the floor. 
As a partner in Hill & Barlow, formerly home to Massachusetts governors William Weld and Michael Dukakis, Patrick represented without charge black borrow­ers scammed into taking high­interest loans for home im­provements. He negotiated a settlement for 10,000 borrow­ers and $11 million in new money for low-income hous­ing. 
Members of the Congres­sional Black Caucus also re­sponded well to Patrick. The caucus dean, Rep. John Cony­ers, D-Mich., called him "an outstanding choice for this critical position.... I expect that he will be a powerful and effective voice for civil rights." 
One near-nominee, District of Columbi'a Corporation Counsel John Payton, with­drew in December after the caucus complained he was lukewarm on using the Voting Rights Act to create black­dominated election districts. 
Patrick is known to believe that creation of election dis­tricts in which minorities have a voting majority is an appro­priate remedy for voting rights violations as long as certain conditions, such as long-term racially polarized voting, out­lined in Supreme Court rulings are present. 







HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1994-95 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 25, 1994 
ST. PATRICK'S PARK THURSDAY, FEB. 3 
$4 INCLUDES: TUBING TRANSPORTATION HOT CHOCOLATE 
Bus departs library circle: 
•

6:30, 7:00 & 7:30pm 
Bus returns to campus: 
9:00, 9~30 & 10:00pm 
Register in advance by Wednesday, Feb. 2 Call RecSports for more info. 631-6100 
~------------------------------------· 
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 2, 1994 

Solllali coalition condefllns U.S. 
By THOMAS WAGNER 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU 
Mohamed Farrah Aidid's coalition condemned U.S. Marines for a shooting that killed at least eight civilians, but said Tuesday its militiamen would not retaliate and violate their truce with U.N. forces. 
"We have told our people to remain calm and uphold the 3­month-old cease-fire, but the Americans must stop killing in­nocent people," said Abdul Karim Ahmed Ali, secretary­general of the Somali National Alliance, a coalition of three factions in Mogadishu that back Aidid. 
"The excuse the Americans are giving for killing our people is nonsense and baseless," he told The Associated Press. 
In addition to the deaths, at least 24 Somalis were wounded Monday when Marines escort­ing two American diplomats opened fire on a street jammed with hundreds of civilians wait­ing for free food. 
One of those killed was identi­fied as one of Somalia's many tribal leaders, Sabriye Alale Barise. 
U.S. officials said the 22 Marines began shooting ma­chine guns and grenade launchers after two snipers fired at the three Humvees and two passenger cars in the con­voy. 
They said other Somalis pulled out guns and joined the shoot-out after it began. 
No Americans were injured, but they said at least three bul­lets struck their vehicles. 
Foreign correspondents in a nearby hotel heard one or two shots before the Marines' heavy weapons began firing. 
But many Somali witnesses said the Marines opened fire af­ter they saw the crowd outside a food distribution center and mistook them for demonstra­tors trying to block the convoy. 
In Washington, a spokes­woman at the Pentagon said the incident was being in­vestigated but early indications were the Marines shot in self­defense. 
They "didn't fire until fired upon" and they came under fire from "a number of sources," said Kathleen de­Laski. 
Although Somalis shouted anti-American slogans after the shooting, no serious attacks on 
U.S. or U.N. forces were re­ported in Mogadishu on Tues­day. 
Aidid has been negotiating with other Somali factions in neighboring Kenya for several weeks, and he was not avail­able for comment Tuesday. But the shooting could prove useful in his effort to vilify the U.N. peacekeeping force of 25,000 soldiers. 
Aidid became a hero to many Somalis last year by escaping a 
U.N. 
manhunt after his militia­men killed dozens of American and Pakistani soldiers. 

U.N. 
officials later lifted an arrest warrant for Aidid and began negotiating with him again, but he still wants all U.N. troops to withdraw. 


Many people fear Somalia's 
factions will begin fighting again for control of this war­torn nation once American troops, the backbone of the 
U.N. force, finish withdrawing next month with their how­itzers, helicopters and other heavy weapons. 
Violence was reported early Tuesday in Baidoa, a city 150 miles northwest of Mogadishu where many relief agencies work. 
Unidentified assailants opened fire on a patrol of U.N. soldiers from India, wounding one of them in the hip, Maj. Chris Budge, a U.N. military spokesman, told reporters. 
At 6:30 a.m., a bomb ex­ploded between two Baidoa buildings being rented by the 
U.N. Children's Fund and World Vision relief agencies, said a UNICEF official, Carl Howorth. Shrapnel blew holes in the walls of both buildings and slightly wounded one World Vision staff member, he said. 
The Seattle-based World Vi­sion agency, however, said in a statement that the relief work­er, whom it identified as staff health officer Marco Meneses, was wounded seriously. It said he was in critical but stable condition at the U.N. hospital in Baidoa. 
Representatives of non-gov­ernmental aid organizations in Baidoa met Tuesday to discuss future plans, the statement said, without elaborating. 
Attacks on relief workers, who are trying to rebuild Soma­lia now that its famine is under control, have increased recently in Mogadishu, Baidoa, Belet Huen and Kismayu. 

Palestenian self-rule to begin in several weeks 
By DAN PERRY 

Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Reining in optimism about talks with the PLO, Israeli offi­cials said Tuesday that an agreement on beginning Palestinian self-rule in the occupied territories could take weeks. 
The comments contrasted with rosy predictions Monday that a deal was close on details of autonomy for the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho. 
But in a step that could ease Israeli concerns, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said PLO chief Yasser Arafat gave assurances that Palestinians are headed toward confedera­tion with Jordan rather than a separate state. Many Israelis fear autonomy could lead to a Palestinian state, which they consider a threat. 
Hopes had been high since both sides reported progress in bargaining between Peres and Arafat over the weekend in Davos, Switzerland. 
But Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin told Israel TV that while there was progress in the talks, "we did not reach total agreement." 

"I suggest we don't create expectations that will lead to disappointment. It is not something that will suddenly be cleared up in a week," ·Rabin said. "If it takes another three to four weeks I suggest we don't get upset about it." 
Autonomy has been delayed seven weeks by disagreements over security issues and Israeli opposition to what it views as Palestinian demands for sym­bols of national sovereignty. 
On Monday, several Cabinet ministers seemed optimistic about the talks, and Arafat said a signing was imminent. 
Arafat said at a news confer­ence in Geneva that he had been ready to sign a draft agreement in Davos but Peres requested a week's delay so the Israeli government could review it. 
Palestinian negotiator Nabil Shaath said it was agreed that lower-level talks would resume in Cairo this week. 
Israel TV said those talks would begin Wednesday, and Channel Two television said Peres and Arafat would meet in Cairo next week. 
Israeli sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Arafat was trying to pressure Israel through excessively optimistic comments. 
The newspaper Yedioth , Ahronoth said Arafat was the one who requested a one­week delay to consult with other leaders in the Palestine Liberatin Organization. 
"I hope we will reach agree­ment but I don't want to com­mit myself to the day or week," Peres said in Washington, where he went to brief Secretary of State Warren Christopher on his talks with Arafat. 
e un Shoe carnival recerpl! 
IT1STHE JANUARY CLEARANCE SALE AT THE SHOE CARNIVAL 
MENS -LADIES -CHILDRENS 
RED STICKER SALE SHOES 


tan one's advertised price or' We will meet or be~ 30 ydays after your purchase. the same rte;n ~p l~wer price we will cheerfully f !f ~ot~~~~~~~en~e. Just bring in their ad and your 
SAVINGS OF 50%-80% 
LA­
GEAR'

OFF ORIGINAL PRICES 
HUMBOLT HIKER MENS LEATHER HIKER ASSORTED COLORS COMPARE AT $48 OUR REG. $29 97. 
TAR COURT LE MENS COURT SHOE. 
~Li\Ck/llAL lRIM 
COMPARE AT $75 
OUR REG. $49.97. 

MI!:HAWAKA: INDIAN RIDGE PlAZA, 5924 GRAPE RD. 219-273-6097 
··----·----------------------------------------------­






VIEWPOINT . ~ 
Wednesday, February 2, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 

News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .................... .Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns presem the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
EDITORIAL 
The Dead is cool, but vote Corbett 
It's ironic how politics at Notre Dame seem to mirror the national scene. 
At last night's debate, we had the status quo ticket, the re-baked candidates, and just for good measure, we had an odd blend of Jerry Brown and Ross Perot. 
Brian Corbett and Karen DuBay indicated that student government under their lead will not be much of a change. Both proved to have ample knowledge of the structure and limitations of the organization, as well as an awareness of ideas that have been tried before. 
The centerpieces of their platform are indicative of the advantage they have over the other candidates. Both build on two ideas developed by this year's ad­ministration: teacher evaluations and the job network. They would clearly provide the consistency and smooth transition that is usually lacking. 
Althou~h The Observer endorses Corbett and DuBay, it is not without strong affection for David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh, the founders of "a grass-roots, campus­wide social movement." 
The Hungeling ticket-complete with a call-in number technique patented by former California governor Jerry Brown -added the freshness and realism that has been lacking in recent races. Endowed with Ross Perot's gift of Southern clarity, Hungeling proved a persuasive spokesman for an unrealistic platform. 
But Hungeling carried a serious message from those who believe student government is ineffective and that the means of changing policy needs to be re-examined. 
Other tickets showed little promise. Brian Coughlin and Maria Capua -the re-baked ticket -presented a series of ideas that have already been implemented. And Erin King and Dietz Lefort seemed to believe helping students is as easy a little head-shaving. 
Corbett and DuBay proved to be the only ticket with well-researched and timely proposals. They pledge to work with South Bend Police and off-campus housing owners to improve security. and they would to provide a welcome alumni mentor program. 
They do have shortcomings. Their proposal to replace The Guide is hasty, considering they have no better idea to increase faculty accountability. And an idea to make DART more complex seems counterproductive. 
But they proved last night that they are competent and realistic about what student government can do. And short of getting the Grateful Dead to come to Notre Dame, that's about all students can expect. 
DOONESBURY 
/)//)I?
600{) IT'5 M8, MARk, 
7HAT'5A
MORNING, aMONT! YOU 
GOOO
AL-IC&' 01/lN'T ACTUAU-Y 
QI.JYiT!ONI
5P£Nil TH/3 N16HT 

WANT7V
IN THf31i?/3, 010 

TAl<£ A
YOU? 

9'ABAT!Tr 
13~ to you by tha US. Government LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Post office to miss clergy influence 
Dear Editor: 
The retirement of Brother Donald Schapker from the Notre Dame Post Office after completing 30 years of dedicat­ed service to the Notre Dame Community, marks the end of the Holy Cross Brothers employment as Postmasters and Clerks with the Notre Dame Post Office. 
The Holy Cross Brothers, along with the Reverend Father Edward Sorin (the first post­master in 1850), have staffed this faculty exclusively for over 100 years of its 150 year histo­ry. The first layman was hired around 1940 and this trend was continued as Brothers retired or sought ministry elsewhere. 
I hope that the present and future employees of the Notre Dame Post Office will continue the legacy left by the departed Brothers as ambassadors of 
The Observer shows poor taste with cartoon 
Dear Editor: 
The Observer, in its editorial cartoon (The Observer, Monday, Jan. 31, 1994) dis­played the poorest of taste on the subject of Lorena Bobbitt. 
Have you forgotten? Women go to this school now. Cheap locker-room humor is bad enough behind closed grimy doors. There is no place for such ignorance at a University, and no place for such injustice anywhere in our world. And who is the comic, with such ob­vious lack of understanding of her, to mangle the symbol for "woman?" 
When someone commits a crime, the first step on the path to justice is to take away their weapon. A man who uses his penis as a weapon of violence 
8UT7HAT'5 
NOTHOW.•. 
\ 

J, 
~r 


As a Catholic University, what do you feel is Notre Dame's role and responsibility in providing prag­matic information regarding the AIDS and HIV epidemics? How can Notre Dame improve these efforts? 
Please send responses to Viewpoint, The Observer, 314 LaFortune by 5 p.m. 
Thursday, February 3. 
dedication and good will to the Notre Dame Community. 
I'm sure that the Brothers' many friends wish them well as we/they prepare ourselves to meet the challenges facing us as we enter the 21st century. 
Samuel Taylor Coleridge (1772-1834), the English poet, 
and injustice deserves to be dis­armed. If you have a problem with this. let us know so we can all steer quite clear of you. 
I agree there is a danger of false accusation. That is one reason I oppose the death penalty. But this abuse went on for years, and it is the only plausible motive. If the problem had been something else, she would have simply divorced him. No, there is only one sit­uation in which a wife would cut off her husband's penis. 
Some might feel in the bottom of their hearts that sexu·al intercourse between husband and wife cannot really ever be rape because of the definition of marriage. Many more may feel it is either a very gray area, or that it is just being forced to 
GARRY TRUDEAU Vox Populi 
philosopher, and critic said: "To meet, to know, to love-and then to part, is the sad tale of many a human heart." 
BROTHER EDWARD VINCENT COURTNEY Columba Hall 
do something when you are "not in the mood" -but some­thing you have done so many times out of desire, that it can­not be too horrible or violating. 
Rape is the most heinous of deeds. I would never soften that statement. Still, there is a way in which rape in a marriage is far worse than without. It vio­lates so much more. Lorena Bobbitt loved this man enough to unite her life to his -body, mind, heart, and soul. He vio­lated all of those by raping her. She gave her whole self to him. There is not a fragment of Lorena Bobbitt that has not been raped now. If you cannot understand, you do not deserve a woman's love. 
TREVEN SANTICOLA 
Off-campus 

..~ 
t .. 

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, February 2, 1994 
PETE PETERSON BEYOND FREEDOM ROCK 
Cavanaugh's conversion recalls memories of dorm traditions 
Last semester's howls of rage But if you are going to recog­the outside. Consequently, there were the general atmosphere on from displaced Cavanaugh resi­nize a traditional dramatic Zahm reveled in its nick­Saturday nights when some campus, in those days. dents brought back some mem­series that goes all the way name, "The Zoo," although it Notre Dame students walked Some dialogue began, as we ories. I called a friend who back to the middle of the last was no more prone to in-hall their dates down the quad were leaving Notre Dame, lived in Cavanaugh 25 years decade, I think it's only fair to pranks, noise, and vandalism towards Stepan Center while about respect and so forth, ago, and told him the guys were recognize older traditions too. than Cavanaugh. other Notre Dame students specifically in the spring of upset and concerned that Each dorm has its own tradi­Keenan and Stanford were hung out the windows all along 1970, after a "panty raid" went women wouldn't carry on the tions and its own reputation. viewed as one entity, an odd the quad, hooting and gibbering from obnoxious and offensive to rich traditions of the hall. When, before my freshman balance of jocks and nerds: in and screaming obscenities like genuinely violent, and women 
"You mean they won't lean year, I was sent a form asking those pre-Nike days when white the inmates in "Scared began to speak up about sexual out the window yelling obsceni­me to choose two residence socks and leather shoes were Straight." assaults that occurred under ties at passing women?" he halls, my sister, a sophomore at considered, well, dorky, It was a little hard to know the guise of passing them up asked. "They won't piss into SMC, advised me to pick Farley Keenan/Stanford was consid­what to do in this situation, over the heads of crowds at the courtyard?" and Lyons, because they were ered the white socks center of when you were one of those fel­football games. But I think that 
Ah, tradition! the only two halls with phones the campus, if not the universe. lows on the sidewalk. As bar­it was coeducation that made 
I never got to urinate with the in each room and because BP was the quiet brother, and baric as the dating scene was most of the changes. fellows from Cavanaugh, but I Farley had become the first Farley was the older brother, a then, you'd have to be a total Which is to say, I don't think often got to hear them scream stay hall on the Freshman pair of more mature resi­idiot to think having jackasses we guys grew up very much on obscenities. In those pre­Quad. dences, though, admittedly, scream at your date was a com­our own, but maybe, when they Warhenge days, most people The idea of a "stay hall" was only by comparison to their pliment, and, besides, part of quit automatically excluding going from the main campus to fairly new: a hall that you rowdy neighbors. barbarism is protecting your half of the gene pool, the stu­the library passed through the could stay in for the entire four Cavanaugh's tradition of out­lady against ruffians. dent body got a little smarter. gap between Cavanaugh and years, ifyou choose to and your rageous sexual harassment was There wasn't much future in Speaking of which, I read the Fieldhouse. grades were good, rather than largely a matter of geography. taking on the entire North where some guys are upset 
They also passed between the old system of placing fresh­Because of the location of the Quad. Guys with brains just because they're afraid the uni­Breen-Phillips and the man in halls on the Freshman place, women didn't walk by found a different route to get to versity is going to set some kind Fieldhouse, but BP didn't have Quad where they could be more most of the dorms on the fresh­Stepan. of quota for women and that rich tradition, I guess, because closely monitored. man quad very often a quarter But that was only a few some unfortunate chaps won't those guys didn't hang out the I entered Farley in the fall of century ago. weekend nights a year. It was get in. I have to say I think windows howling at women, 1967, to find that there were Farley and BP were the last Cavanaugh and BP that the quotas are a terrible thing and subjecting them to filthy sug­some juniors who had been in dorms on that side of campus: women walked by all day, every I'm glad they weren't doing that gestions, remarks, and observa­the hall their entire time at NO, Grace and Planner were day. And it was Cavanaugh, when I applied to Notre Dame. tions. quite a few sophomores and planned, but not yet built, and a but not BP, where little boys In fact, I'm glad they weren't 
I realize that the guys in then a handful of seniors who wide-open field stretched from hung out the windows shouting admitting women at all, in Cavanaugh don't do that any­had transferred into the hall. Stepan Center to the library obscenities. It is definitely those days. more, because young men are The rest of the quad was pop­and the WNDU studios. Women Cavanaugh's tradition. When I If they had been, I'd have to more sensitive today to the feel­ulated with freshmen and going to the library ran the think of Cavanaugh, that is write this column for the ings of women, because women sophomores as the other dorms Cavanaugh gauntlet and passed without hesitation the first Boston College paper. I was today take a wider sweep began the process of becoming Breen-Phillips, but had no rea­thing I recall. wait-listed at ND. through Warhenge, and also stay halls and the Freshman son to go near the other halls. That all seems an age ago, Pete Peterson, a 1971 gradu­because women today can walk Quad became the North Quad. But Stepan Center was where even to me. I can remember ate of Notre Dame, is into Cavanaugh Hall, come up Of course, each hall thought the concerts were, in those last that it happened, and I can Readership Services Manager the stairs and beat the living it was pretty hot stuff, but they days before the Athletic and remember thinking it was pret­at the Press-Republican, a daily crap out of them. were viewed differently from Convocation Center opened. ty stupid. But it did fit in with newspaper in Plattsburgh, NY. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Moral theologians argue importance of individual conscience 
Dear Editor: 
Last semester, I wrote a Jetter addressing the issue of the Catholic Church's infallible statements about moral mat­ters. I argued that the Church has never spoken infallibly on moral issues and I supported my claim by appealing to the writings of a prominent theolo­gian. I failed, however, to dis­close his identity. I am writing to give credit to Richard McBrien of Notre Dame's Theology Department. I was referring to his book Catholicism. One could also consult the theologins Richard McCormick, Richard Gula, and Daniel Maguire. 
In the past, theologians have reminded us that the New Code of Canon Law states that "No doctrine is understood to be infallibly defined unless it is clearly established as such". It has been argued that, given this condition, those claiming the infallibility of certain teach­ings must convincingly prove them as such. If we turn to the 1990 version of the book 
Principles for a Catholic Morality, we find that Timothy O'Connell, another Catholic the­ologian and priest, shares the perspective of McBrien and oth­ers. In his book, O'Connell unfolds his theology on· con­science and addresses the con­flicts that can arise between an informed conscience and the teachings of the Church. O'Connell remarks that in con­sulting different sources of wis­dom, the Catholic must treat the Church as a major source of illumination. He explains that, on their own, human persons cannot arrive at truth and that the Church is especially suited to assist the individual because of its long standing tradition of moral insight and wisdom. Moreover, the Holy Spirit is guiding the Church in its pur­suit of truth. 
Nevertheless, the Church has certain limitations. First, it "never has issued an infallible pronouncement on a moral question ... And although the cat­egory of 'infallible teaching by way of ordinary magisterium' also belongs to Catholic theolo­gy it seems to be a 'species with no members' ... " Also, peo­ple evolve and change and a Church teaching can become "inadequate." O'Connell illus­trates this point later in the chapter by referring to the Church's previous stance on usury which has some basis in Scripture. He concludes that " ... to say that the church was correct in asserting the immorality of charging interest on a loan is simply to say that this practice was once in a par­ticular context immoral." 
Lastly, the Church's teachings do not speak to the "totality" of every particular situation: "Individual moral agents will still be obligated to decide for themselves whether the instruction of the Church truly applies to their specific situa­tion, and if so, how." 0' Connell affirms the Church's right to teach on matters of morality, but because he recog­nizes the Church's limitations, he also greatly respects the informed individual conscience. According to him, not only is conscience the principle upon which we will be judged but also the primacy of conscience has been present in the Catholic tradition since Thomas Aquinas who has been summarized as claiming the following: "Anyone upon whom the eccle­siastical authority, in ignorance of the true facts, imposes a demand that offends against his clear conscience, should perish in excommunication rather than violate his conscience. n 
But before and even after the first publication of O'Connell's book in 1978, some of his views were debated intensely by oth­ers. For example, Hans Kiing in 1970 and John Ford, S.J. col­laborating with Germain Grisez in 1978 attempted to prove publicly that the Church has indeed spoken infallibly on a moral question. In these two instances, it was maintained that the immorality of the use of artificial contraception ­made official in 1968 by the papal encyclical Humanae Vitae -had been taught infallibly by the ordinary magisterium. Ford and Grisez were especially meticulous in outlining and interpreting the Vatican II con­ditions that must be satisfied before the teachings of the ordi­nary magisterium can be con­sidered infallible. In the words of O'Connell, "[t]heir opinion has not, however, received widespread support in the scholarly community. Indeed, I think it is fair to say that the opinion is generally regarded as extreme if not eccentric". 
In his book Teaching Authority and the Catholic Church, the theologian Francis Sullivan, S.J. assesses the argu­ments presented by Ford and Grisez. He points out that it is difficult to verify that Bishops are in agreement about a cer­tain teaching when this has not been solemnly defined. Furthermore, the Bishops must agree that a teaching is to be held "definitively." In analyz­ing the meaning of the term "definitively", Sullivan con­cludes that it demarcates that the Bishops propose a teaching as "irreformably true", and therefore, "...it is only when the magisterium obliges the faithful to give irrevocable assent to its teachings that it can be said to teach infallibly." Lastly, Sullivan Informs us, after an examination of natural law, that most Catholic theologians adhere to the view that particu­lar moral norms do not lie with­in the scope of infallible teach­ing. These norms "are based on human nature as it exists in history, as subject to change. Such norms cannot lay claim to any absolute or permanent validity." 
Several theologians have made clear distinctions between infallible and noninfal­lible teachings and between the type of assent that corresponds to each type of teaching. Significantly, Ladislas Orsy along with the Code of Canon Law Society of America in the text The Code of Canon Law: text and commentary, translat­ed the "religiosum obsequium," which is the the type of assent due to noninfallible teachings, as "religious respect" rather than "submission." Sullivan opted for "submission," explaining that the term calls for "making an honest and sus­tained effort to achieve internal assent" to the teaching being considered. Yet, he admits that strong doubts can persist even after such an effort and that, conceivably, one can find one­self unable to regard certain teachings of the Church as true. This ought not be judged, how­ever, as disobedience to the magisterium because, accord­ing to Sullivan, the faithful have already fulfilled the obligation of obedience in making the effort to give the teaching a "sincere and intellectual assent." 
Even Bishops themselves have advocated critical reflec­tion and the primacy of the informed individual conscience. As examples, we could cite the bishops' conferences around the world that refused to con­demn those who, in good con­science, could not adhere to Humane Vitae. We could also refer to an article written in 1986 by Bishop Michael Pfeifer, OMI of San Angelo, TX. In "Thoughts on Freedom, Conscience and Obedience" (Origins (1986): 16), Bishop Pfeifer asserts that in grappling with noninfallible teachings, "church authorities and Catholics in general must be open to on-going exploration and even revision when greater clarity emerges. This on-going exploration is carried out espe­cially by theologians, specialists in the disciplines which are required." 
Bishop Pfeifer also affirms that "[i]n all cases of non-infal­lible official teaching we retain the responsibility to seek truth and goodness in our own lives ... The well-informed conscience will always strive to be based on the gospel principles of Christ and on the best teachings of the Church. Prayer, study, reflection and consultation are of vital importance in con­science formation. This process should be followed before one would make an exception for oneself. But such a decision also implies openness to ongo­ing reflection and perhaps reconsideration in light of new teachings or new circum­stances." 
This insight resonates with encouragement for the individ­ual because it rediscovers the value of human experience. It also assures that God will accompany the individual who exercises the freedom to learn and to question, to consult sources of wisdom and to reflect, and, by extension, to act in accordance with what the informed individual conscience has deemed true and good. 
ABEL P. OLIVAS 
Adjunct Instructor, Romance Languages and literatures 

-




ACC~NT 
Wednesday, February 2, 1994 page 11 
Three cheers for the cheesy television tunes 
I believe it was Bruce Springsteen who claimed there's "57 channels and nothin's on." For those of us that consider it a blessing to have two working outlets, let alone cable, the Boss is painfully right on target. 


It's more like "We B MELANIE WATERS 
only get three chan-Y nels and there's noth-Accent Columnist ing worth watching anyway." OK, now I know all you die-hard TV addicts will jump down my throat. But for anyone that has seen the Keenan Revue, you have to admit that TV just isn't what it used to be. Of course, that's not to say that the Revue wasn't great and all I did was listen to the theme songs in between. But it's really sad to admit that you know every word to all those cheesy tunes, and even worse to realize that you can't stop yourself from belting them out (much to the dismay of the people next to me). Let's give it some serious thought. Will the theme from "Roseanne" ever elicit huge cheers and a lovingly off-key audience participation sing-along? Hardly. That's one of the main problems with TV today -you just can't sing along. Sure, we all do air guitar to the "90210" theme, but that doesn't count. Cheesy songs were undoubtedly the backbone of the 70's and 80's sitcoms. Oh, no doubt the shows were stupid, and if you tried to air them today, there'd be a 29-way tie for last place in the Nielson Ratings. But who out there can admit that they never watched "Silver Spoons," never got caught up in "The Facts of Life," and never wanted to wring Webster's annoying little neck? Shows like the ones we loved growing up just wouldn't cut it today. But really, today's shows are just polished, improved versions of the old, minus the cheesy tune. If you think about it, "NYPD Blue" is nothing more than "Hill Street Blues" with hormones. If you liked the Love Boat, just try the Norwegian Cruise line com­mercials. Captain Stubing would be ashamed. Maybe even more distressing than the phas­ing out of the cheesy song is the fate of the sit­com star of the 80's. I almost hate to admit it, but last weekend, I watched a TV movie in which Ricky -oops, I mean Rick Schroeder ­he's a man now-played a young single father. A father?!? What's wrong with this picture? Another scenario: after many seasons as Jo, everyone's favorite Harley queen on "Facts of Life," what happened to Nancy McKeon? She ended up doing mindless summer camp TV movies with Michael J. Fox. He then moved on to a string of heinous flicks like "Life With Mikey." Ouch. Remember Punky Brewster, the perky Blossom of the 80's? She ended up dating rap­per and Calvin Klein god Marky Mark. You may think that's a fate worse than death, but I felt sorry for him. Yes, gone are our heroes, both real and ani­mated. If "Superfriends" was still on, I'd still bound out of bed on Saturday mornings. Sigh ...I always did have a thing for Aquaman. And as an aspiring little journalist, who was my child­hood idol? I was religious about doing my Picture Pages, and instead of a dog, I wanted a pet Mortimer pen. And I'm sure there are other females that collected "A-team" dolls so that you could bomb the Barbie dream house. My dream was always to marry Bo Duke and someday end up looking like Daisy. And admit it -you've tried at least once to get into a car through the window only to find out that it hurts, a lot. So, the "Dukes of Hazzard" was a cheesy show. But at least you could sing along. "Growing Pains," "Who's the Boss," "Cheers," "The Jefferson's" -yeah, I still know all the words. But that's OK, because even if you could find 57 channels in South Bend, there'd still be nothing on that measures up. 


Thou shalt not••• 

-
By MATT CARBONE Marcus Rosenbaum, "Talk's" senior shalt not steal will be addressed by Accent writer producer. Robert Heilbroner, an economist on "Instead, we're having people whose March 7th. "There can be something 
We live in a modern world with lives and daily work ties in with the heroic or defiant in disobeying the modern problems. Oftentimes, it Commandment they're discussing." other commandments -even mur­seems as if the teachings of the The speaker for the First der can be justified by self-defense ­church are sound, but can serve as no Commandment: I am the Lord thy but stealing is simply more than guidelines for living in this god. Thou shalt have no other gods contemptible ... theft violates out modern world. before me was Peter Carruthers, a being," said Heilbroner. 
It is this kind of attitude which the theoretical physicist. "Most scientists Novelist , Mary Gorden sparks lis­"Talk of the teners interest when Nation," a ten part she comments, "I series on the rele-would never tell a 
vance of the Ten friend she'd had a Commandments in bad haircut," while today's world, speaking about the addresses. Ninth command­
For the next sev­ment, Thou shalt eral weeks, "Talk not bear false wit­
of the Nation," a ness. daily news/call-in Speaking about show on National the Tenth 
Public Radio Commandment, (heard locally on Thou shalt not covet 88.1 FM WVPE} is Radio thy neighbor's spotlighting one house, wife, Commandment manservant, or each Monday, maidservant, from 3-4 p.m. Talmudic 
The series will be hosted by veteran that I know are agnostic about God... scholar/writer Adin Steinsaltz says, "Is journalist Ray Suarez. Suarez opens Science has often represented itself as it at all possible to command anyone each session of "Talk" with a mono­the substitute for the coherent more to abstain from thinking and from logue that sets the tone for the show. position of God, but has failed to con­coveting? How can anyone be told not Each week, a different guest, related vince sensitive people," said to want?" in some way to the Commandment Carruthers. These and other points are sure to 
being discussed, prepares and reads When the Second Commandment, provoke some heated and interesting an opening essay about that Thou shalt have no graven images, debate on the radio program, which is Commandment. was addressed on Mon., Jan. 24, the exactly what Reinharth wants. 
"We want to spark a dynamic dis­program's guest was sculptor Leonard "In these difficult times, many cussion of what the Commandments Baskin. Americans -religious or not -are mean to the average citizen," said Although the guest for the Third searching for ethical guideposts," said 
..
series producer Miriam Reinharth. Commandment which is Thou shalt Reinharth. 
"Does it matter that my kid is curs­not take the Lord's name in vain has "This series will provide an opportu­ing? Should I honor the Sunday not yet been announced, the Fourth nity for "Talk" listeners to engage in a Sabbath and not go to work, despite Commandment, Thou shalt honor the thoughtful dialogue about highly per­the fact that I desperately need the Sabbath, will be examined on Feb. 7 sonal, moral issues, with ten 
money? These are the kinds of ques­and labor leader Dennis Rivera will be renowned individuals." tions we hope to explore." the guest setting the tone. 88.1 FM, WVPE Public Radio is a 
The discussion, however, will not be "Everyone needs a day of rest," said member-supported service of the reserved to learned theological schol­Rivera. "But we honor the Sabbath Elkhart Area Career Center and the ­ars. best through gratifying and satisfying Elkhart Community Schools. The sta­
"This will not be a series on reli­work that contributes to a more just tion serves the Michiana area weekly gion," said "Talk" director Sean society." with more than 130 hours of national­Collins. "It's an opportunity to use On February 14 Mortimer Adler ly and locally produced news and cul­each of the Commandments as a who is a philosopher will speak on the tural programming and is a member 
jumping-off point from which listeners Fifth Commandment, Thou shalt of the National Public Radio and an -and our guests -can discuss how honor thy father and mother. affiliate of American Public Radio. they live their lives." "If you love your parents you'll act "Talk of the Nation" airs on 100 "For the most part, we're not having well toward them," said Mortimer. NPR stations nationwide. Locally, it is theologians as our guests," said "What more ls needed?" heard on 88.1 FM. WVPE Public Radio The Eighth Commandment, Thou and member of NPR. 

Natzonal Public 
-
-
.. 

It's a big decision, choosing where to begin your career. There are many reasons to join De/oitte & Touche­our clients, our dedication to quality, our professional development opportunities, our people. People who enjoy what they do. Our mission is simple: to consistently exceed the expectations ofour c/;ents and our people. 
With 15,800 people in more than 100 of/ices in the United States, and through our global organization, De/oitte Touche Tohmatsu International, we offer clients worldwide an outstanding and diverse port/olio of services. For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. So why not join a firm that will exceed your expectations? 
Congratulations to the following students /rom the Class o/ '94 who will be joining Deloitte & Touche: 
Andrea Alexander Mark Engel Ashley Kocevar Ed Neu/er Janice Reis Carlos Apacible Thomas Fleming Angie Kolbas Dana O'Leary ]on Ross Mark Bangasser Karen Grondin Michelle Manning ]on Oleksyk ]enni/er Schellenberger Kevin Carrigan Masahiro Hirao ]ames Martin Maria Ortega Gina Smith joseph Claussen Ivan Hofmann Amy Miltko Denise Paulin Eric Staub Nancy Davis Brian Kelly Brian Murray Michael Preissler Timothy Walsh Jean Einloth 
The above professionals are joining our of/ices in Atlanta, Chicago, Cincinnab~ Cleveland, Detroit, Houston, Indianapolis, Orange County­
Deloitte &
Costa Mesa, Parsippany, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, San jose and Seattle. 
Touche 
1.\ 

Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 
We Listen. We Deliver. 
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu lntemational 
Deloitte &Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or irrelevant handicaps. 
Wednesday, February 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Sprewell an unlikely All-Star Equestrian ifllpresses in Io-wa 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

While Latrell Sprewell wasn't among the 100 players listed on the NBA All-Star ballot, it won't stop him from playing in the game on Feb. 13 at Minneapolis. 
The Golden State Warriors' guard was among 14 reserves -seven apiece from the Eastern and Western confer­ences -chosen Tuesday by the league's head coaches. 
Along with Sprewell, selected ·as substitutes for the Western Conference were forwards Karl Malone of Utah,. Danny Manning of the Los Angeles 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
"We've been enjoying ourselves, " concurred coach Jennifer Slosar, "But now we need to get down to business." 
While she does not underestimate Anderson, Slosar also wants everything in place come .Saturday. 
"We aren't looking past Anderson," Clippers and Cliff Robinson of Portland, center David Robinson of San Antonio, and guards Kevin Johnson of Phoenix and John Stockton of Utah. 
The East's reserves will be forwards Horace Grant of Chicago and Dominique Wilkins of Atlanta, centers Patrick Ewing of New York and Alonzo Mourning of Charlotte.. and guards Mookie Blaylock of Atlanta, Mark Price of Cleveland and John Starks of New York. 
Starting for the West will be for­wards Charles Barkley and Shawn Kemp, center Hakeem Olajuwon, and guards Clyde Drexler and Mitch Richmond. 
said Slosar, "And yet we are looking ahead to this weekend and beyond." 
Coach Slosar cited this weekend's tournament as the time when the tough part of the schedule begins. 
The Irish, after meeting Tri-State next week, then have to travel to the University of Kentucky for another dif­ficult ail-day tournament before meet­ing up with their nemesis and long­time rival, Michigan State on February 16. 
Observer Staff Report 

The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Equestrian team put together a strong performance this past weekend at an Intercollegiate competition sponsored by Iowa State University. 
Beginning with the Huntseat show on Saturday morning, the team was led by Lesley Kokoska, Meaghan McCue, and Megan Turpin. McCue placed second in the open fences division, while Kokoska finished first and Turpin second in the Intermediate flat division. 
The team also garnered strong finishes in the large novice division. In novice flat, Julie Barry earned second place while Amanda Maurer took first in her first ever intercollegiate competition. Susan Galanthay also placed second in the flat. 
Jen Toland and Jody Duff also impressed, with Toland finishing first in the novice flat and fences, earning the individual High Point Rider award. Duff garnered first in the novice fences and second in the flat, and was named Reserve High Point Rider behind Toland. 
In the walk-trot-canter division, Michelle Meadows placed first and Stefanie Worwag second. Chris Singer received second in the walk-trot, as the team finished in second place behind Purdue. 
Saturday evening marked the beginning of the Western Stockseat competition, where Jennifer Leitlow earned Reserve High Point Rider with a first place finish in the pattern class and a second place in the open division. Turpin received fourth place in Intermediate II, and Meadows earned first in Intermediate I. Singer also placed first in the walk-trot division. 
At the second Huntseat show on Sunday morning, the team was led by Kokoska, who earned her second and third first place finishes, this time in the intermediate flat and fences. Kokoska also earned High ·Point Rider in the competition. 
Toland turned in another impressive day, tying for Reserve High Point Rider with a first in the novice flat and a second place in novice fences. 
Singer earned another first place in the walk-trot, and the team again finished second to Purdue. 
Currently the team is in second place overall in the region, less than 11 points behind Purdue, which is fast becoming a rival for the improving ND/SMC Equestrian team. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. , 
Classifieds 
Stay naked. approaching, and if you want to if you fasted last semester, there is Yours always, The Flaming Bitch write a classified to that special ~-N_O__ __~ll~--~--~_N_T_E_D ~~--F_O_R_S_ALE no need to sign up again. If you 
T_IC_E_s __~I ____~ 
someone, you cari type your ad 

wish to begin this semester, sign up now. Your message will appear in USED TEXTBOOKS ••••sPRING BREAK '94 .... SPRING BREAK CANCUN in the dining halls todayll!l!ll the special Valentine's Observer on Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Best pkg around.CollegeTours Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd 233·2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9·3 Sun Florida & Padfe! 11 0% Lowest Price econ.&lux. trips Can find extras Help! hitchhiking is dangerous and floor of Lafortune. 
Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and if needed -{;all reps 4 fliers & Mud needs a ride to Dayton for The NAMES Project your trip is FREE! TAKE A BREAK prices X232·7109 JPW (2·18,19,20) call her at x2574 AIDS Memorial Quilt STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. or x2575. Feb. 25-27 Help, I'm dying and I need two tick· 
ets to Phantom for Feb. 3! IRISH ACCENT Can you type fast? I need a typist! MacCiassic, 4/40 $600. Queensize SUPPORT GROUP FOR RAPE Volunteer Meeting It's my last dying wish. Notre Dame's Will pay $1.50/pg. Call 634·5117 sleepersofa, 1yearold, $350. Call SURVIVORS Open to Notre Dame Thursday, Feb. 3 Well, ok, so maybe I'm not dying but Comedy lmprov Troupe 256·5202 eves. & St Mary's Students; HELD ON" 7:00p.m. the tickets sold so fast I'm sick. SHOW Need one extra JPW ticket for all CAMPUS; FREE; CONFIDENTIAL La Fortune Ballroom Please help me out! Thanx! Wed., February 2 events DESPERATEL Y!l!l!l!! Sponsored by Sex Offense Calllma "Jonnie" Sickman 
TICKETS
@ 9:00 Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506 Services 234·0061 ext. 1308 EVERYONE WELCOME 282·2206 in LaFortune Ballroom 
Admission: $1 SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ Will pay $$BIG BUCKS$$ for Garth SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! in salary & benefits. Ski!Snowboard Brooks Tickets. Call Sarah at Free Food Night this Wednesday, Tickets are still available for the 2 girts going to Cancun thru College instructors, lift operators, wait stall, #3818. Feb. 2 at 7:30pm ski trip to Bittersweet on Saturday, Trs want to comb. w/ other grp. chalet staff + other positions (includ­Free Pizza at Alumni-Senior Club Feb.S. Transportation will be pro­Help! x284-5525 ing summer). Over 15,000 open­Seniorsll!!lll!l!lllllllll SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! vided by bus. Lilt tickets are $17 at
ILOST & FOUND I 
ings. For more information oall: Did you buy an extra ticket to the LaFortune Information desk. Bookstore Basketball XXIII-uh huh, 
(206)634-0469 ext. V5584 Phantom? Bookstore Basketball Commissioner SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! can you handle it? LOST: diamond ring--{Jnusual set­Need to get rid of it? applications in St.Gov1.-LaFortune. ting~omewhere between the Men and Women needed for free Want to get rid of it$ Due Feb 8. Frosh/Soph encouraged Still seats left on best CANCUN Linebacker and Turtle Creek on haircuts. Call Cosima's 277-1875 to apply. Spr. Brk! Will pair up grps. Call 232· Wanted: An exceptionally gifted Friday Night, 1/21. Extreme senti· Call Jonny "donnie" Trump 7109! tutor for advanced high school mental value. If you found it, please Campus newspaper carrier/manag­282-2206 and leave message. am driving to Miami Oh and would physics and calculus. Set theory call Adriana 273-4803 REWARD er needed immediately for St. like a rider. call todd # 1251 SUMMER JOBS • ALL and proof knowledge wouldn't hurt. 
·oFFERED Mary's campus, call City News LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­Will pay $10-$15 per hour. Please Service Inc., 232-3205. •••••••••• FOR SALE ••••••••••••••• TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS call234-2465, 4 to 10 p.m. Ask for Team 244's Memories of Toledo: ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR Christine. Home delivery newspaper carriers 2 GARTH BROOKS TICKETS FOR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786· lost: small silver ring with sunken needed for morning delivery, car THE SUNDAY, FEB. 13 SHOW. It's Mark in a pea green Lumina 8373 hey RYAN BROWN-black patterns-sized for a male. required. Call City News Service CALL 4-1339 BETWEEN 7-9 PM. "Let's just go to Buffalo ... " want to come to Howard's please call x0920 if found. Inc., 232-3205. LEAVE A MESSAGE WITH AN Evil Devil Spring Break Bahamas Party "Murder Under The Arches" SYR? OFFER. BigB Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Trip Includes call x2577 to reply LOST: gold chain & cross w/ G in a Mark, going over time is inexcus­Cruise & Room, 12 Meats & 6 Free 
FOR RENT

heart at center, on path to Debartalo able Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! between Niewland & Hayes-Healy. KEY WEST-KEY WEST "Burn, burn it, bum it down, bum it 1-800-678-6386 SPRING BREAK! S. PADRE REWARD. x1829 NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225. Spring Break Airline Ticket FOR all to hell ..... " ISLAND Beachfront-where it is all 
MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. SALE. From South Bend to Key Two words: Cinci Nati Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! at! 213 Bedroom Condo. Parties, 
AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306 West, leaving Thursday, March 3 How about New Orleans? Fly out of Chicago and spand 8 contests, disco on the beach. Attention partygoers at 628 Grace: and retuming on Friday, March 11. Memphis? We could make Atlanta days on the beach! We have the OWNER DISCOUNT. Also Marco please help me find my dark navy/ This ticket was purchased during an by lunch ... best trips & prices! Includes air & Island, Florida near Keys 1 BR. black J.Crew down coat w/ bright HOME BASED B &B ALLIANCE airfare war and I'm selling it for what Dragonhead Stout hotel & parties from $3991 1-800-Boats, pool, jacuzzi, HAPPY HOUR, orange lining (size S) w/ gloves HOMES available for Feb. 18 & 19, I paid for it, which is cheaper than Pete's Wicked Ale 678-6386 $650 Week • OWNER DISCOUNT and my life in pockets. I'M Parents weekend. Call 271..()989. any1hing you can find available Ed, putting your hand in your pocket 813·642·5483 FREEZING! Lesleyx4867 Excellant accomadations. nowllll is disrespectful Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days 
Call Staph at 273-6548. "Be naked all ye egos who enter oceanview room with kitchen $1191 Barton Fink is 21 Junior Parents Weekend ·1 room, 2 here." Walk to best bars! Includes free dis­MEMORIES nights Double Best Inns $160 GARTH BROOKS TICKET The Cormatic, a flat baskeball, and count card • save $50 on cover 1-Ftannet PJ night 
Help! If you found my dark navy/ 314-227-6156 Sec. 12 Row 4 Seat 5 a morbid poster (nice, Matt) charges! 1·800-678-6386 2-Venice, umm. black J.Crew coat(size s) w/ Call with your offer X4833 Patti, falling asleep at counsellable 3-How to diss Bryce weekend orange lining alter the party at 628 2·5 BEDROOM HOMES is highly unproffessional 4-Salzburg Bathrooms 
Grace Fri, please call Lesley 4867 SECURITY SYSTEM Mix and match imports Quality Copies, Quickly. S-Can we please live together? 
PERSONAL
I'M FREEZING and my life was in ALL APPLIANCES "I'm loopy" THE COPY SHOP 6-Ever try a couch on your car? the pocket! no ?'s asked! 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS Hair Boy LaFortune Student Center 7-Lots o' Crystal light 232 2595 ADOPTION: Loving, financially Laurie, your outfit is inapropriate Phone 631-COPY 8-More o' Pretzel Rods secure couple longs for a newbom "Death by lethal injection, your hon­9-Kel has b'day, bum the film. 
FREE MAID SERVICE '94-95 to join our family. Please call Nancy ors ... " 4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in 10-Pancake House ... FOUND: Beagle, 15 lbs, by Turtle Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B.B. & and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. Come on, if we leave now, we can Washington, D.C. area wish to 11-Best Band SYR Date Creek Apts, Call Kevin 273-6163 sand V-ball courts. 234-3831 or be in Cincinati by ... adopt infant brother or sister. Close 12-RV, Purdue, Lost brain cells. 
273-0482 ATTENTION SENIORS! We may bum out, but we won't go extended family in area. Let's help 13-Nightmare in 417 LOST: gold cross & chain btwn I'll trade you the 49ers for a pair of down rusting each other. Medllegal paid. Please 14-The Loftus scale broke again. Rolfs and NOH on 1/30. Call Emily Phantom tickets! Well, maybe not Matt, you're so arrogant call Jessica or Bob 15-No, you decidel!l!lll! 4570 I NEED ROOMMATES! the whole team, but if you need to Oops! You're realty first in the 1-800-864-8385. 16-DR+JF=Rotation Room 
Summer + 94·95 year sell them for whatever reason, don't region. Sorry. 17 -Sensuous Woman, Chapter 3 Lost: Red women's wallet at 150/mo furn+util pd-MUST SEE! give them away, sell them to a Do you want my address so you SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON­18-Windshield wiper fluid, 70mph Campus View on Fri. 1/28. Keep Hickory Village-5 min to campus friend. can send us our trophy? DON & ROME IN 21ST YEAR. 19-Prince Charming does Roomie the money, but I need the rest of it. 273-8369 Call Eddie "Jonnie" Debartolo That's OK, this team of 6 is stronger TRAVEL IN 20-Pop Tarts ... ? If found, please call Katie at x2550. 282-2206 than any 8 we could put together. IREL,SCOT,ENG,FR,GEA,SWITZ, 21-BARTON FINK HAS B'DAY 
Not bad for a bunch of arrogant, dis­& ITALY. COURSES IN PHOTO, Lost: a blue/green Columbia jacket WEDNESDAY LUNCH FAST respectful, unproffesional, inexcus­BIO,BUS, ECON,HIST,SOC,ITAL· at Turtle Creek party last Friday­TurtleCrk 2BR Twnhse avail. for able, inapropriate, kleptomaniac, IAN,& LIT. MEETING 6:30PM FEB. Micki, you've got my I.D., the LEAST you 94-95 Cristenx1912 begins wednesday, february 2. alcoholic road trippers. 8 CARROLL HALL SMC. FOR Cheer up!! Don't worry, if you could do is give the rest back -Will thanks to everyone who fasted last Circle the wagons, raise the draw­INFO· PROF. BLACK 284-4460 fall, he will catch you!! X1062 semester-we raised over $5,000 bridge, we're going it alone, all the Love, 
for hunger relief organizations way to number one ... ••••••••sEAT THE RUSH ........ Vindy around the world. Thanx for every1hing, you guys. VALENTINE'S DAY is. quickly 
I. 
page 14 The Observer • COLLEGE BASKETBALL Wednesday, February 2, 1994 
Syracuse shocks No.5 UConn; Michigan tips Purdue 
Associated Press 
Syracuse's offense has never been better in the Big East, yet the 15th-ranked Orangemen still had to fight frantically to give No. 5 Connecticut its first conference loss Tuesday night. 
Lawrence Moten had 31 points and John Wallace added 25 as Syracuse matched its highest point total for a Big East game in defeating Con­necticut 108-95. 
"As a team, we played a per­fect game tonight," Moten said. "We couldn't have played any better. I would never have be­lieved we could score 108 points on Connecticut." 
Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said the Orangemen played as well as they could play ­which, he added, was the only way they could defeat the Huskies. 
"They are not any less of a team because of the way they played tonight. They may be even better because we played as well as we can play. If we hadn't beaten them tonight I don't know if anybody would. At least now, there might be a chance," he said. 
Syracuse (14-3, 7-3 Big East) moved into a second-place tie with Boston College by ending a 10-game winning streak by the Huskies (18-2, 8-1), who played their second game without coach Jim Calhoun, who has been hospitalized with pneumo­nia. 
Wallace scored 14 points in the second half, repeatedly de­railing the Huskies' comeback attempts. 
"That was my best game as a collegian. That's the way I need to play all the time," said Wallace, who also had six blocks and tied Moten with 10 rebounds, helping the Or­angemen to a 44-36 rebound­ing advantage. 
Donyell Marshall had 30 points to lead Connecticut, which pulled to within 92-88 on Nantambu Willingham's tip-in with 3:39 to play. But Syracuse went on an 11-2 run to lead 103-90 with a minute left. 
"The most difficult thing about the game is giving up 108 points. We prided ourselves on being a good defensive team," Marshall said. 
"We're still No. 1 in the con­ference. We just want to come back Saturday (against Miami) and keep playing our style. Ev­erybody still has to catch us," he said. 
Connecticut, which won the first regular-season meeting against Syracuse, led 51-48 at halftime after an opening 20 minutes featuring eight ties and 18 lead changes. 
Syracuse scored nine straight points, five by Moten, to take the lead for good 61-55 with 15:19 remaining. 
No. 6 Arkansas 89, 
Vanderbilt 76 Roger Crawford and Scotty Thurman scored three baskets each during a 19-0 run that helped sixth-ranked Arkansas beat Vanderbilt 89-76 Tuesday night. The victory moved the Ra­
zorbacks (15-2, 6-2 SEC) into a tie for first in the Western Divi­sion of the Southeastern Con­
ference. 

Frank Seckar's fourth 3­pointer in six attempts cut the Arkansas lead to 46.-43 before the Crawford-Thurman spree. The Commodores (1 0-7, 3-5) suffered four turnovers during the five-minute period. 
Thurman hit a 3-pointer with 15:40 to play and then a one-bander from the baseline. Crawford got a basket inside after a pump fake. Crawford followed with a 3-pointer and then a stuff after a steal by Thurman. That put Arkansas up 58-43. 
AI Dillard's basket-high pass produced a dunk by Corliss Williamson and Thurman made another 3-pointer. A fancy-dan pass by Elmer Martin set up a layup by Corey Beck at 10:43 to make it 65-43. Billy McCaffrey's two free throws broke the string 10 seconds later. 
The Commodores closed to 84-70 on Seckar's 4-point play with three minutes left. But Williamson, who led Ar\{ansas with 24 points, made a layup to head off the Vanderbilt threat. 
Crawford had 16, Dillard 13 and Thurman 10 for Arkansas. Ronnie McMahon led Vander­bilt with 26. McCaffrey had 17 and Seckar added 16. 
Arkansas started 8-0 but Vanderbilt tied it at 18 on Seckar's third 3-pointer. The Commodores had an opportu­nity to take the first lead but Dillard came up with a loose ball and Dan Hall was nabbed for goaltending. Dillard fol­lowed with a 3-pointer. 
No. 13 Michigan 63, 
No. 8 Purdue 62 Juwan Howard put back an offensive rebound with 21.1 seconds left and Purdue missed three shots in the final seconds as the 13th-ranked Wolverines overcame an 11-point deficit to defeat the Boilermakers 63-62 Tuesday night. The Wolverines (14-4, 6-2 Big Ten) overcame a 36-point performance by Glenn Robin­son to win a battle for first place in the Big Ten. Purdue (17-3, 5-3) took its biggest lead of the night at 53­

Has anyone seen my Long-necked Birthday Girl? 
Oh, there she is! 
Happy 20th E! 
Love, the Lewis Poohtas 
42 on a jumper by Robinson with 8:31 to play. But poor free throw shooting cost Purdue dearly down the stretch as the Boilermakers missed 10 of 15 in the second half. Purdue was only 8-of-20 for the game. 
Howard had 17 points as Michigan opened a half-game lead over Indiana, which can move back into a tie by defeat­ing Ohio State on Wednesday. 
Dugan Fife, who scored eight of his 12 points down the stretch, ignited Michigan's comeback with a 3-pointer. 
Howard missed a free throw after his go-ahead basket and Purdue called a timeout with 
14.4 seconds remaining. 
Ian Stanback missed a tO­footer, but Robinson got the offensive rebound. His putback rolled off the rim and Herb Dove's tipin fell away from the basket as time ran out. 
Both teams had trouble keeping the ball in the first half, which ended with Purdue lead­ing 34-30 thanks to 23 points from Robinson. Michigan had 12 turnovers in the half and Purdue had 10. 
There were 11 lead changes and three ties in the first half. The Boilermakers then scored the first six points of the second half and weren't caught until Jalen Rose's jumper put Michi­gan ahead 59-58 after Robin­son had missed two free throws with 3:23 to go. 
Two baskets by Robinson, sandwiched around a rebound basket by Ray Jackson, gave Purdue its last lead at 62-61 with 1:34 to go. 
And after Rose missed a jumper, the Boilermakers missed an opportunity to add to the lead when Line Darner missed a 3-point attempt and Michigan grabbed the rebound to set the stage for Howard's winning shot. 
No. 10 Temple 84, 
Rutgers 45 Senior Eddie Jones matched a career high by scoring 30 



moderators: PROFESSOR JOHN ROBINSON Director of the Center for Law and Government 
PROFESSOR WILLIAM D. SOLOMON Professor of Philosophy 
Fisher Hall Basement 7:00PM on Feb. 2nd 
Come join us for great food & convrersartlomI 
points as lOth-ranked Temple routed Rutgers 84-45 in the Atlantic 10 Tuesday night for its eighth straight victory. 
Rutgers (6-11, 2-6 Atlantic 
10) scored the first five points of the game, but Temple (14-2, 7 -1) retaliated with 18 straight, 11 by Aaron McKie and seven by Jones. The Owls led 46-13 after a jumper by Jones with 
1:07 left in the half. 
Jones, Temple's leading scorer and defender who also leads the team in steals and blocked shots, had 25 points in the first half, one short of the homecourt record set last year by McKie against Rutgers. 
Jones individually outscored the Scarlet Knights 18-3 over one stretch of the game. McKie, who finished with 22 points, had 11 in the first 20 minutes. 
The Owls scored the first seven points of the second half to led 55-19 with 17:41 to play. Rutgers scored eight straight points to make it 55-27, but the Owls went on to lead twice by as many as 41 points. 
Jones was 11-of-15 from the field, including 3-of-5 from 3­point range, handed out five assists and blocked two shots in 32 minutes. 
-~--­

-~-----------~-­
Wednesday, February 2, 1994 The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL page 15 
Cowboys assistant Bengals support two-point play 
Associated Press Brown said he thinks defen­
hired by Redskins 
sive backs have been getting 
By MAlT YANCEY 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 

The Washington Redskins turned to an old nemesis Tues­day, reaching into the staff of the Dallas Cowboys for offen­sive coordinator Norv Turner to rescue their free fall from Super Bowl stardom just two years ago. 
Two days after helping guide the Cowboys t.o their sec­ond straight Super Bowl title, Turner met with Redskins owner Jack Kent Cooke about succeeding Richie Petitbon as Washington's new coach. 
Neither the Redskins nor Turner would say the deal was set, but Cooke was all smiles after the meeting and there was every indication Turner was set to come aboard. 
"Things are going good," Turner said before touring what would be his new office at the team's practice facility. 
The Redskins, who have spoken with no one other than Turner about the coaching job, tentatively planned a news con­ference for Wednesday to an­nounce a new coach. 
The hiring would come nearly a month after the 81­year-old billionaire owner fired Petitbon after his team finished its worst season in three decades with a 4-12 record. Petitbon lasted only 10 months as head coach after being the team's defensive coordinator for more than a decade. 
When asked a day earlier in Dallas if becoming Washing­ton's new coach was a done deal, Turner said, "I guess it might be .... I'm ready to go." 
The Redskins and Turner had hoped to wrap up the tran­sition four weeks ago during the Cowboys' break between the regular season and the playoffs. And most of the con­tract details were negotiated before NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue stepped in and in­voked a league rule that pre­vents job interviews with coaching candidates until after their last game of the season. 
"Norv had a window of about two or three days and they had about a day and a half of communications before the league called," Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said last week. "There's a $500,000 fine, so it's not in the best interest of either side to talk about it." 
But even well before then, Cooke had looked upon Turner as the only candidate who could return his team to the glory it enjoyed throughout the 1980s under Joe Gibbs. The Redskins began background 
checks  on  the  41-year-old  
offensive  coordinator  in  
December  and  never  

approached any other possible candidate. 
The deeper they looked the more they found that Turner is almost a clone of Gibbs, which is perfect for the Redskins. 
TTE 
"Luxury Living You Can Eny·oy & Afford" 
defensive line a yard off the line of scrimmage; weighting field goal attempts, whereas longer ones could count more than short ones; increasing the num­ber of timeouts; and putting a headset into the quarterback's helmet. 
All of the ideas are designed to increase scoring in a league that has taken criticism be­cause of an increase in field­goal kicking and a decrease in overall scoring. 
The Bengals scored 18 7 points last season, the fewest in the NFL and the fewest in fran­chise history. 
CINCINNATI 

The Cincinnati Bengals, who were the NFL's lowest-scoring team last season, would sup­port an experiment with a col­lege-style two-point conversion, general manager Mike Brown said. 
"It would help make a dull play an interesting play, at least on occasion," said Brown, a member of the NFL's Competition Committee which shapes league rules. "And coaches today are more inclined to accept it. The col­leges have had it for a long away with contact as they cover receivers down the field. 
"It's intentionally incidental contact," he said. "And it's not just at the end, it's en route. It keeps the receiver from break­ing clear." 
Shula, a former receivers coach, said: "I think what hap­pens now is they really don't enforce the rule that's in place. I don't think there's too much bumping going on." 
Among the other rules changes owners may be asked to consider are pushing the 
time and have learned how to 
Cincinnati hires coach, may 
use it. A lot of our coaches have college experience, so it (changing the rule) doesn't cre­
fill staff with Irish assistant 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI Joe Pascale, who coached 
outside line­backers for eight years for the St. Louis and Phoenix Cardinals, has joined 

~inc~nnat~ Joe Wessel Bengals as linebackers coach, the Bengals said Tuesday. 
The Bengals now have only one position to fill on their staff -defensive line coach. Joe Wessel, 32, the secondary coach at Notre Dame, is a can­didate for that job, The Cincin­nati Post reported. 
Linebackers coach Mike Haluchak and defensive line coach Bob Karmelowicz re­signed from the Bengals after defensive coordinator Ron Lynn quit following the 1993 season. The Bengals have hired former Washington Red­skins assistant coach Larry Peccatiello as defensive coordi­nator. 
Pascale, 4 7, has spent 26 years as a coach, including in college, in the Canadian Foot­ball League and with the de­funct United States Football League. He lost his job in Phoenix when owner Bill Bid­will fired head coach Joe Bugel and the coaching staff. 


""Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
... 

ate quite the anxiety that it used to." 
The committee will make proposals, and the owners are to vote on them in March. 
Bengals coach Dave Shula said he would favor a two-point conversion. 
"I think it would add excite­ment to the game. But it's tough to get people to change," said Shula, who never has coached at the college level. 
Other proposals that could be submitted to owners include allowing receivers to run routes virtually unimpeded. 
Now, defenders can bump receivers within five yards of the line of scrimmage. A new rule could give an advantage to receivers by reducing that five­yard zone, or eliminating it al­together. 
... 

-
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
All-Star trio leads Chicago to its ninth win in last ten 
Associated Press 
Except for the first five min­utes, the Chicago Bulls played a nearly perfect basketball game. 
Scottie Pippen scored 28 points and Horace Grant and 
B.J. Armstrong had 19 apiece, leading the hot-shooting Bulls past Denver 118-98 Tuesday night and ending the Nuggets' four-game winning streak. 
The Bulls, winning for the ninth time in their last 10 games and for the 26th time in the last 31, shot 59 percent to Denver's 49 percent. Chicago had just six turnovers com­pared to Denver's 18. The Bulls' aggressive defense pro­duced 15 steals compared to just five by Denver. 
"It's one of the best road games we've played all year," Bulls coach Phil Jackson said. "We had nice control over the tempo. The third quarter told the story. We had our heads on and played like we wanted to. Hopefully, this will set up some momentum." 
Pippen, averaging 29.7 points over the last three games, said after the Bulls' slow start, "I wanted to get my offense going, so that would help the team get going. I've been playing like this the last three or four games, usually getting 20 by the half. We are playing so well together that it makes it tough to score on us and defend." 
Knicks 114, Celtics 79 Patrick Ewing had 23 points and six other Knicks scored in double figures Tuesday night as 

New York beat Boston, ending the Celtics' season-high seven­game winning streak. 
New York, which won its fifth straight, held Boston to 20 points in the first quarter, 22 in the second and 14 in the third. The Knicks were ahead 89-56 by the time the fourth quarter began. 
Charles Smith scored 14 points, Greg Anthony and Rolando Blackman had 13, and John Starks, Derek Harper and Anthony Mason each added 12 for New York. 
Nets 104, 
SuperSonics 103 New Jersey rookie P.J. Brown hit two free throws with 
19.2 seconds left and the Seat­tle SuperSonics botched a final shot. 
The suddenly stumbling Sonics, who began the day with an NBA-best 31-9 record, lost for the fifth time in six games. 
With 10 seconds left, Seattle inbounded the ball to Gary Payton, who eventually passed to Ricky Pierce. But Pierce bounced the ball off his foot near the top of the circle and had to throw up a hook shot from halfcourt that went out of bounds. 
Pacers 116, Bullets 96 Reggie Miller and Rik Smits each scored 25 points, leading the Indiana Pacers over the Washington Bullets. It was the Pacers' second straight win and second in three meetings this year with the Bullets. Smits scored 12 of his 15 first-half points in the opening 
8:06 and sent the Bullets' Kevin Duckworth to the bench with two quick fouls. 
Heat 88, Bucks 82 Steve Smith sparked Miami to its franchise-record 11th road victory of the season by scoring 19 points as the Heat defeated the Milwaukee Bucks. Glen Rice led Miami with 23 points and the Heat won for the third straight time on the road. Miami is 11-10 on the road and 10-11 at home. Blue Edwards' 18 points led the Bucks, who fell for the fourth straight time. Eric Mur­dock added 17 points and Frank Brickowski got 16. Spurs 112, Lakers 97 Dale Ellis scored a season­high 32 points and David Robinson had 30 as the San Antonio Spurs beat the Los An­geles Lakers. The Spurs have won four in a row and 15 of their last 18. They have won nine straight at home. Ellis, the NBA's career 3­point shooting leader, made 4­of-6 3-point tries. He shot 13­for-23 overall, and his 15 points in the third quarter put San Antonio ahead 78-67. Jazz 104, Rockets 88 Karl Malone scored 29 points and the Utah Jazz held Houston scoreless for nearly the final five minutes and beat the Rockets. Mario Elie's basket brought the Rockets within 92-88 with 
4:56 left, but they did not score again. Utah beat Houston for the first time in three tries this season and broke a six-game 

losing streak to the Rockets. John Stockton added 26 points and 13 assists and Jeff 
Malone chipped in 13 points for Utah. Karl Malone scored 15 points in the fourth quarter. 
Norbut 
continued from page 20 
tough can the real thing be? 
I walked into the gym last Tuesday with this exact atti­tude. Of course, I walked in behind Todd Murphy, Dave Bradley, and Ron Jacinto, my three friends that joined me in this nutty endeavor. They had been there the day before, so they were hardened veterans ready to show me the ropes. 
Practice hadn't officially started yet, so I just stood there taking in the atmosphere as an official member of the Bouts. 
Heavy bags hung from the ceiling, and they occasionally moved as a boxer landed a hard punch. Men bobbed and weaved in front of mirrors, checking their footwork and form. And of course, numerous trainers were strolling amongst them all giving little pointers that could possibly make the difference between a win and a loss in the ring. 
As I gathered all of this in, I 
envisioned myself on the steps 
of the Philadelphia Art Museum 
surrounded by hundreds of 
kids. I saw myself in a ring 
with Mickey in my corner 
telling me that if I let down my 
guard, the damage could be 
JoinAm•,,~··*'rou,op.,~,~~
~r ~'9 ~~-We offe, ma<e porto., and adovoh•• 
, at the guatanteed lowest prices
1 1
• , on-ccmpus!l! 
Cancun Mexico rrom$439 Negril Jamaica l<am$449 Montego Bay Jamaica !,om $419 Daytona Beach, FL l<am $149 Panama City Beach, FL l<om$129 
Call for 
a Local Representative
~ 
120Notltl~$t.,tlhac;q,NY1-4850 

"poimanent." And finally, I saw myself holding up the champi­onship belt, with Adrian at my side. 
But Rocky made it look so easy. 
Calisthenics made me realize how poor of shape I was in. Af­ter fifty jumping jacks and nor­mal stretching, we started doing arm circles. And we just kept doing them until my arms felt like jello. Then we had to drop and do pushups. We con­tinued this cycle until I had no feeling left in my upper body. 
Then we started situps. 
Needless to say, by the time we were done with our 250 stomach crunchers, my lower body had completely lost feel­ing. So basically. I soon be­came one numb body that had just been hit with a stiff shot of reality. 
As much as I wanted to scream my lungs out, I kept a straight face, and even at­tempted an expression of toughness. I couldn't give away the fact that I was in bad shape or feeling a little wimpy. It's just not part of the boxing tradition. 
The next shock that hit me was that I had a lot to learn. It started with counting. Boxers only count to ten, but at the end 
~:~~!hoven's 2"(PG): 1:00, 3:00, 5:15, 
Bllak(R): 145, 4:30, 7:30, 10:00 ~::lOmpJ Old Men(PG13): 1:15,4:15,6:45, 
Iron WIII(PG): 12:15.2:30, 5.00, 7:30, 9:45 Phlladelphla(PG13): 1:30, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
The Pelican Brlei(PG13): 12:30, 400, 7:00,10:00 Tombsloni(R): 10·15 
Mn. Doublflri(PG13):4:15, 7:15,9:45 The Air Up Theri(PG): 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Werne's World 2(PG13): 5.00. 730, 10:00 

of each set, they call out how the sport, punching, soon The moment of truth is com­many repetitions have been enough, and now I have to fine ing soon. In a couple of days, completed. It took me a while tune my body in order to max­I'll step into the ring for the to get the hang of it, but I guess imize the power of each blow. first time in a sparring match it's supposed to keep us Even though it is fun to throw a so I can put together everything concentrating. jab or a tough right hand, I that I have learned so far. As 
The box step, the origin of the found that it is much more ad­excited as I am, I have to admit sport's name, was the next vantageous for me to learn how that I am deeply terrified of major ingredient added to my to block punches. I would having my head be a target for pot of boxing knowledge. I never forgive myself if I had my someone's fist. spent a few hours hopping for­nose broken. Well, at least I have insur­ward, left, back, and right, try­It's amazing how much better ance. ing not to trip over my feet as I shape I've gotten into after a shifted my weight. week of training. This weekend 
Funny, I always thought box­I fit into pants that I had once 
Arrive alive•••

ing was named after the shorts deemed unbearably tight, and the guys wore in the ring. Oh I'm starting to eat right too. 
•••don't drink and drive!
well. However, this alone does not I learned the main element of make me a boxer. 
-, 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY 


Now TAKING APPliCATIONS FoR '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
---~-----------------~-----­
---------------------:--------...., 
Wednesday, February 2, 1994 The Observer • THE OLYMPICS page 17 
Gillooly implicates Harding 
ByBOBBAUM ing's life and destroy her ca­"After the meeting, while Associated Press reer," the statement said. driving toward home, Tonya Her attorney, Robert Weaver approved the plan that had PORTlAND, Ore. Jr .. angrily denounced the been discussed and gave the 
Jeff Gillooly pleaded guilty to statements by Hoevet as "an OK for the assault on Nancy 
racketeering Tuesday and inappropriate attempt to in­Kerrigan. The final decision struck a deal with prosecutors flame public opinion against was hers to make," Hoevet to testify that his ex-wife, Tonya Harding." said. Tonya Harding, "gave the OK "It is my hope that charges Hoevet was asked what for the assault on Nancy will not be leveled against words Gillooly said Harding Kerrigan." Tonya Harding, but bear in used to approve the plan, and 
Under the deal, Gillooly will mind that there has been no he said, "As I understand the be exempt from any other formal accusation at this quote, it's 'OK, let's go for it,' or charges, including those that point," Weaver said. "If there 'OK, let's do it."' may grow out of a federal in­is, she intends to respond in the Gillooly, 26, confessed to vestigation. He agreed to serve court of law, not the arena of seven crimes in the attack, in­24 months in prison and pay a public opinion, which as we cluding two counts that he said $100,000 fine. have seen today, is easily ma­in court documents involved 
Gillooly's lawyer, Ron Ho­nipulated and frequently unin­Harding: conspiracy and per­evet, said his client hoped formed." jury. Harding would also admit her Harding has said she didn't Harding won the national involvement in the plot. learn until days after returning championship after Kerrigan 
"Jeff has a message for to Portland Jan. 10 that people was struck on the right leg, Tonya -he hopes that she will close to her were involved in forcing her to withdraw. Both now do what he has done and the Jan. 6 assault on Kerrigan. women were named to the move quickly to resolve the Harding has not been charged. Olympic team. 
charges that will surely be Gillooly said he asked Hard­brought against her," Hoevet In court, a somber Gillooly ing's bodyguard, Shawn said. spoke quietly and responded to Eckardt, to send alleged hit 
"Denial is no longer plausi­Multnomah County Circuit man Shane Stant and alleged ble," Hoevet said. "The truth Judge Donald Londer with getaway driver Derrick Smith about this bizarre crime has short answers. He said he un­to Detroit to club Kerrigan on now been revealed." derstood the charge against the knee. him. Hoevet said the FBI received Harding, who is training for "What is your plea?'' Londer an anonymous call implicating 
the Winter Olympics that begin asked. Harding, Gillooly, Eckardt and next week in Norway, issued a "Guilty," Gillooly said, nod­Smith while the skater was still statement Tuesday again deny­ding his head slightly. in Detroit. When she and ing "all media speculation and In a later statement to re­Gillooly returned to Portland, rumors that suggest that she porters, Hoevet said Gillooly at­agents watched as they met was involved in the Kerrigan tended a Dec. 28 meeting with with Eckardt to concoct a cover assault." the three other men charged in story, called Smith from public "Jeff Gillooly's accusations the attack to discuss how to telephones and repeatedly appear to evidence a continued prevent Kerrigan from compet­drove by Eckardt's house in an practice of abusive conduct in­ing in the U.S. Figure Skating attempt to monitor his inter­
tended to disrupt Tonya Hard-Championships in Detroit. 

IRISH CCENT 

NoTRE DAME's COMEDY lMPROV TROUPE 
SHOW 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2 9 P.M. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM ADMISSION $1 
view with the FBI, Hoevet said. 
He said Harding personally obtained Kerrigan's practice schedule, both in Boston and Detroit, and provided a picture of her from a magazine. 
She became irate when the attack had not taken place by New Year's Eve, and demanded her $2,000 back from Eckardt, Hoevet said. 
"I know Jeff deeply regrets his involvement in this crime," Hoevet said. "He knows he and others have brought pain and fear to Nancy Kerrigan, her family and her fans. By this plea and cooperation agree­ment, Jeff hopes to bring clo­sure to his own involvement in these events." 
There is more evidence to be gathered in the case against Harding, Hoevet said. 
Dunham and Snow fight for goalie duties 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
ROUEN, France 
Mike Dunham, groomed for Olympic goaltending greatness since his teens, faces the possibility of making two trips to the Winter Games without ever playing. 
"It could happen," he said Tuesday as the U.S. hockey team prepared for a pre­Olympic tournament. "If it does, obviously, I wouldn't be happy. 
"But what can you do? You just have to swallow the pill and go on. If that happens, I'll wait till I get to the NHL and prove myself there." 
Then again, coach Tim Taylor might go with Dunham when the Lillehammer Games begin next week. 
The competition between Dunham and his former Maine roommate, Garth Snow, is too close to call. 
''I'm going to play the best goaltender," said Taylor, whose squad meets Norway's Olympians on Thursday. "I want to make sure I've got the goaltender who's ready to win and capable of winning. If we have two goalies in that situa­tion, that's better." 
Or is it? 
When the United States won the gold medal in 1960, Jack McCartan was the undis­puted No. 1 goalie. When America won silver in 1972, Mike Curran stood out. Jim Craig starred for the 1980 gold medalists. And in 1992 at Albertville, the United States finished a surprising fourth because of the incredible goal tending of Ray LeBlanc. 
U.S. coach Dave Peterson went into the '92 Games thinking he might rotate LeBlanc, Dunham and Scott Gordon. 
In fact, it appeared Dunham might get the early nod. Dunham had always played well for the national team and was fabulous in the 1991 Junior World Championships. He then played 31 1/2 shutout minutes in the intense final Olympic tuneup against Sweden. 
Before the Olympics, then-U.S. personnel director Art Berglund said: "Dunham is the kind of goaltender you need in a tournament. In the juniors, he was the difference between sixth place in a medal." 
But Peterson chose LeBlanc, a minor-league vet­eran. Gordon was the backup. That left Dunham, then 19, on the outside. _ 
"I heard it came down to me and Ray," Dunham said. "I think Peterson was a little afraid to throw me in there at such a young age. He was afraid, if I faltered, to feel the heat. And I don't think he wanted me to feel the pres­sure. So he played Ray, and Ray played great and kept the job." 
History might repeat itself for Dunham. 
Taylor could start the 24­year-old Snow, who lacks Dunham's international expe­rience but played well in the minors and in a month-long stint for the NHL's Quebec Nordiques. And with America's first game against non-contender France, Snow immediately could establish himself as the go-to goalie. 
"I suppose something like that could happen," Taylor said. "Or I could give them each a game early in the Olympics and if they both play well, I might keep rotating them." 
That would be nothing new for Dunham and Snow, who roomed together at Maine for three seasons -the kid who was groomed for greatness and the late bloomer. 
"We've got a good friend­ship. We root for each other," Snow said. "I don't think it's any accident that, because of our good relationship, we've been on good teams." 
They helped Maine win the NCAA Division I title last sea­son. Snow's statistics (21-0-1 record, 2.08 goals-against av­erage, .915 save percentage) were slightly better than Dun­ham's (19-0-1, 2.65, .893}. 
That's also the case to date in pre-Olympic competition. Snow has a 3.19 GAA and .889 percentage to Dunham's 3.89 and .868. 

• 
t 
A New Series for FACULTY, Professional Staff & Graduate Students -· 
TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
"HEALTH CARE REFORM: Morals or Management?" 
A Conversation with 
David Solomon and Richard McCormick, S.J. Philosophy Theology 
Thursday, February 10 7:30p.m. at The Center for Social Concerns 
Sponoored by: The Depai"Linent The Center for The Office of of'Ibeology Social Concerns Cempus Ministry 
--Licht Refreshments will folklw-­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 2, 1994 
• 
Bills end another second place season 
By DAVID GERMAIN 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 
The Buffalo Bills packed up, moved out and began another offseason Tuesday wondering if they still had the fortitude to make it back to the Super Bowl. 
The Bills emptied out their lockers and autographed foot­balls for teammates after com­ing home empty handed for the fourth year. While the mood was somber over the 30­13 loss to the Dallas Cowboys, the veterans remembered a time when things were worse. 
"There's still a strong sense of accomplishment, especially for the guys who've been around a little longer, who were here during the lean years," quarterback Frank Reich said. "In my rookie year here, we were 2-14. The next year, we were 4-12. 
"Maybe for the younger guys who've only been here a couple years, all they know is going to the Super Bowl. It might be a little bit out of per­spective for them. Maybe it's harder for them to accept." 
That's not to say it's easy for the veterans. In fact, the Bills said it was harder to lose this time around because they'd gone in more confident­ly than they had before the previous three losses. 
"I don't like to lose. I don't like to lose at checkers," defensive end Phil Hansen said. "I don't care what it is. The Super Bowl, the biggest game in football. Yeah, it's dis­appointing, disheartening." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

... 
"I gave it everything I had in that game," wide receiver Don Beebe said. "It was tougher to lose because you've laid it on the line like that, and you expect to win and know you're going to win, then have your dream shattered again." 
While the Bills led 13-6 at halftime, they crumbled in the second half with costly turnovers and an inept offense. It seemed to Beebe as if his team was "just selling out on every play." 
Guard Jim Ritcher said the Bills wanted a win so badly that they fulfilled their own fears of failing again. Ritcher said coach Marv Levy made a good analogy between the Bills' performance and the simple task Levy follows every morning when he puts in his contact lenses. 
"He's done it for 27 years and just pops them in, boom­boom," Ritcher said. "But the morning of the Super Bowl, when he had so much to do and was so excited about the game, he was dropping them and fumbling them. 
"That really explains a lot of what happened to us on the field last year and in the sec­ond half this year. When the momentum shifted, everyone was trying to do everything at once. We started fumbling, making the little mistakes, try­ing to do too much instead of doing the one thing that was necessary at the time." . 
Levy held a brief team meeting before dismissing his players for the season. He told them to take pride in the past season and start thinking about next year. 
CD COLLECTOR'S 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 6 10 A.M. -5 PM. ADMISSION $3 
AT THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 51 5 DIXIEWAY NORTH US 3 1 -33 NORTH $1 OFF ADMISSION WITH THIS AD 
BUY • SELL • TRADE 
MUSIC COLLEGIBLES FROM THE SO'S • 60'S • 70'S • SO'S • 90'S 
LP's -CO's-45's · I 2 inch singles -imports posters -magazines -books -concert photos · videos t-shirts -cassettes -pins-patches and much morel FOR DEALER INFO CALL BlAIN AT (616) 375-2776 DOOR PRIZES SOUNDS UNLIMITED PRODUTION 
SMC swimming pushes Chicago 
By CHERYL GILLILAND 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team gave the University of Chicago all they could handle in Satur­day's meet before falling by a score of 118-116. 
Coach Greg Janson felt that the disappointing results took away from an outstanding per­formance by the Belles. 
"We swam fantastic on Sat­urday," said Janson. "In terms of general improvement, there is no way we could swim any better." 
He noted that the University of Chicago swam better than he expected in certain areas. 
"I definitely think that we outswam them," said Janson. "We overpowered them in the swimming events; unfortu­nately they had better divers than we did." 
Janson also said that the en­tire team swam fantastically and that they are in great shape. 
Several athletes swam their season best times and showed great improvement from prior meets. 
"I think that everyone had a great meet," said freshman Mary Ruschmeier. "We were disappointed in the loss, but I'm happy we swam as well as we did." 
Sophomore backstroker Katie Rose set her season best time and set a school record in the 200 backstroke. She swam 
2:20.34 on Saturday, beating her prior best time of 2:22.84 and the school record, which was 2:22.76. 
"Katie was on," said Janson. "There is no other way to de­scribe it. She swam nearly per­fect." 
Rose also swam her season­best time in the backstroke leg of the 400 medley relay by two seconds, and she placed a very close second in the 200 IM. 
"Katie destroyed the school 
Rowing Club: Manda­weeting Wednesday, Feb. 8 p.m. for all novice and y Ji, members. '?Also: bring checkbooks for , sWeatshirts, and 
semester debts. 
Sklers;,,Last for the spl"ing trip to Jackson Hole, · ntact Dave Zidac at 

record, and I could see her swimming even faster," com­mented Janson. 
"I think she has an excellent shot at nationals in the 200 backstroke sometime in the future." 
Teresa Popp, sophomore freestyler, also swam her sea­son best time in the 50 and 100 meter freestyle races. 
Sophomore Jennifer Mitchell also swam her season best time in the 100 meter freestyle event. 
"Jen has improved dramati­cally in the last few weeks," commented Janson. "She is really coming into shape for us." 
Sophomore Ann Zielonka dropped her time by seven sec­onds in the 500 meter freestyle to finish third. 
Katie Gibbs and Mary Ruschmeier also had outstand-
WEDNESDAY 

ing performances in Saturday's meet. 
Gibbs, a sophomore, im­prnved seven seconds in the 200 meter IM, while freshman Ruschmeier swam her season best in the 500 freestyle by dropping 15 seconds ofT of her previous time. 
"I felt better because dropped a lot of time in the 500," commented Ruschmeier. "I hope our success continues in Saturday's meet." 
Janson was very disappointed that the Belles' tremendous ef­fort resulted in a two-point loss, yet he was pleased with their performance and improvement from previous meets. 
"We couldn't be in a better position at this point in the sea­son," he noted. "Even losing by two was a victory." 
~· 
Wednesday, February 2, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
-
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


W\-\Et-1 '{OJ'RE TP..l\t.INS. TO ME , '(OJ C.\\OOSIC. \1-\E APPRoPRII\\t. <::ARD TO TR!>.I'lSU>..TE W\-\1\T 'j()~'RE Si>.'lll'lG, AWv PR<JI' II AGf.-1\'l.'ST '{0\JR H:.H fOR 
~E lD RHD. 
~I 
L~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Eve's second-born s Selves tRecipe direction 14 Venetian traveler 15 Baby's cry 
d h
16 N u t s-an -oney snack 
17 Syllabus 
18 Scottish group 19 Bean or Welles 
20 Kind of joint 
between boards 23 Angers 24 British 
statesman Sir Robert 25 Pursued 
\ 
281t can provide a moving experience 
29"-La Douce" 33Pregame rah-rah meeting 34 1948 Hitchcock nail-biter 35Ciose 3&1sland prison of 
history 37 Days of 
celebration 38 Roof projection 39 Hammer head 40 Compuserve 
patron 41 Joseph of the 
Senate 42Viewed 43 "All Things 
Considered" network 


44 Be annoyed 45 Utah's state 
flower 47 Knot in wood 48 The Iron 
Chancellor 55 Pre-Columbian 
Mexican 56 Father of Enos 57 Tennis champ 
Yannick sa African antelope 59 Suffix with kitchen or usher 60 Old Russian assembly &1 Race to a base, 
perhaps &2 Bird feeder fill 63 Observed 
DOWN 
1 Date with an M.D. 2 Heavy Army 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
B-=+±::-fl!l!fii-:.BB~~~+;.j...:...i.:::.l ~::t:,+;-1 
;;.;;.J..;;;;..&.;.;.;.L;:..J 


knife 3 Verve 4 View from Port 
Jefferson 5 Hosted a roast & Big parties 7 Mideast gulf a Alternative to a 
plane? 9 Kind of leave or dinner 
10Group containing Truk, Belau and Yap 
11 Too 
12 City in Ukraine 

Puzzle by Morton B. Braun 
13 Hans Christian  31 Expert  47 Please, to  
Andersen, e.g.  32"You­ 48-Across  
21 1934 chemistry Nobelist 22 Heredity units 25 Holiday paper 26 The Tin Man portrayer 27 "Seascape" playwright  kidding!" 34 Survey data 37 Baseball practice 41 Road shoulder 44 Hurried 46Avoid  48 Singles 49 Fanciful, as a story so Popular cuisine 51-noire 52 Rake 53 Arrived 54 Tatar chief  
28 Person in a  

booth? 
Get answers to any three clues 
30 Author of "The 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­
Cloister and the 
Hearth" 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Leonard felt his skin suddenly crawl. Coming through the door were a couple of real sketchy characters. 
OF INTEREST 

Enjoy writing? 
Like to shoot photos? 
Lo"e layouts? 
Then you should become part of 
The Observer ! 
If you're interested in being on the staff, please call631-7471. 
Justafraction ofourtimemltcltinf!pmvies
could helpIring many happyeOOings. 
It's so easy to help your ,-five hours ofvolunteer time 
community, when you think per week the standard of 
about it. giving in America. 
Millions of people have1'"'1.__:.rn'D Get involved with the 
helPfC! ~ake five percent ~In:; .I'Jve. causes yo~ care about 
of therr rncomes and Whar yo~~~~~-surable. and giVe five. 
DINING HALL 



""· 
.... 
-
SPORTS 
page 20 
Men's volleyball hosts Anderson 
Wednesday, February 2, 1994 

By G.R. NELSON Spons Writer 
The undefeated Notre Dame men's volleyball team faces An­derson University tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in the Thunderpit at the Joyce Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. 
The Irish (4-0) played Ander­son in the preseason and de­feated them easily. Nonethe­less, they are not taking Ander­son for granted. 
"It doesn't matter who we play," said outside hitter and club vice-president Matt Strottman. "We still have to play our game and make plays." 
"This game is important," added outside hitter Tom Ko­vats, "Because we need to keep improving for the meat of our schedule." 
While both Strottman and Ko­vats are off to strong starts for the Irish squad, they both rec­ognize that there is always room for improvement. 
While the offense-led by the spikes of Brian Ceponis, Strottman, and Kovats-and a strong team-passing game has clicked all year, the defense needs to step up a notch. 
The defense has not had to face a strong offensive oppo­nent in their last two victories, both three-game routs. How­ever, the defense must improve its blocking game for future op­ponents. 
Also of importance is the fact that this will be Ceponis' first game back after suffering a mild knee sprain. The addition of Ceponis to an already relaxed and confident volleyball team does not bode well for future Irish opponents. 
However, the Irish will most certainly need him healthy for the difficult University of Michi­gan tournament this Saturday. 
The fun and easy part of the schedule is nearly over, and the Irish need to be prepared when it does end. 
see IRISH I page 13 

The Observer/Brian McDonough Senior outside hitter Tom Kovats goes up for a block in the Irish's match with Michigan State last season. 
PART One 

The flrst in a series of articles by 
Assistant Sports Editor Mike Norbut as 
he trains for his flrst Bengal Bouts. 
_... 
NAME THE NORBUTContest 

The Observer is conducting a contest to flnd the best name for Mike. Possible suggestions should be given to the sports desk at The Observer offlce, third floor 
LaFortune. Phone entries will also be accepted at 631-4543. A winner will be announced prior to the quarterfinal bouts. 
''I punched Todd Tomlinson in third grade after he stole some golf balls from my garage." 
Visions of a Rocky n1ovie \Vere quickly S\veated away 

L
ast week, as I strolled past the hock­ey rink in the J.A.C.C., I noticed an open door to the right filled with activity. 
I caught a whiff of dirty old tube socks, and saw a large pack of mad dogs beating on lifeless bags with all of their might. 
The next thing that caught my eye were dozens of posters featuring "Nappy" Napolitano and his legendary quote, "Strong bodies fight so that weak bodies may be nourished." 
Right then and there, only one thought came to my mind. 
"It's the eye of the tiger, it's the thrill of the fight, rising up to the challenge of our rivals," I began to sing under my breath. My voice became louder as I picked up the permission forms, and before I was out of the little gym I had hit a full sprint for Cavanaugh Hall, flailing fists at trees and telling every passer-by that I was doing something special. 
I was going to join Bengal Bouts. "Just be careful," my mom said. No Mom, like I'm going to walk into a fist 
or something. 
"That's fine with me, but I don't think you've ever thrown a punch before." my dad commented. 
Actually, Dad, don't you remember? punched Todd Tomlinson in third grade after he stole some golf balls from our garage. But even if I have never thrown a punch before, the trainers and captains will teach me everything I need to know anyway. 
Besides, I've knocked out Mike Tyson before playing Punchout on Nintendo. How 
see NORBUT I page 16 
_.,. Inside SPORTS 
Tough Loss Maine's Main Men 
No Ordinary Jones The Saint Mary's swim 

Temple star Eddie Jones team falls to the 
Two former University of 
scores 30 points to lead University of Chicago by 
Maine stars battle for the 
the Owls over Rutgers. just two points. 
starting nod at goalie for 
the U.S. Olympic team. 
I
f!
(}(')(') see page 18 
see page 14
'"':..xr see page 17
Lillehammer'94 


