----------------------~-~-----­
Accident ends students' Mardi Gras celebration 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
A van carrying ten passen­gers, eight of them Notre Dame students, to New Orleans for Mardi Gras crashed on an icy Missouri highway early Friday morning injuring two passen­gers seriously, according to William Kirk, assistant vice president for residence life. 
Alumni sophomore Greg Borkowski is in the Intensive Care Unit of the Missouri Delta Medical Center in Sikeston, Missouri after undergoing surgery Friday for two broken ribs and a slight liver lacera­tion. He may return to Notre Dame towards the end of next week. 
Also, Pangborn sophomore Mary Kraft is hospitalized in Saint Francis Hospital of Cape Gerardo, Missouri after sustaining a broken pelvis and broken fifth lumbar vertebrae. Her injuries did not warrant surgery, and the date for a return to school will be deter­mined pending arrangements for physical therapy. in South Bend. 
The van rear-ended a truck 

The Observer/Brett Moraski 
at about 2 a.m. on Interstate 55 near New Madrid, Missouri, said Howard sophomore and 

Free skate 

Breen-Phillips juniors Karen Gunther and Colleen Rooney took advantage of the free skating at the JACC 
passenger Heidi Doerhoff, who

yesterday. Boston native Gunther once skated in the same club as Olympian Nancy Kerrigan. 
owns the van. Icy conditions were the cause of at least twen­ty eight accidents in the area that night, she said. 
Only two passengers, Doer­hoff and Howard sophomore Mairin Ocheltree, who was dri­ving the van at the time of the accident, were wearing seat­belts. Doerhoff suffered a bruise to the side of her head and Ocheltree.a broken nose. 
Other passengers, including Borkowski and Kraft, were asleep in the rear of the van when the accident occurred. They were either uninjured or sustained minor injuries and returned to school Friday af­ternoon, said Kirk. The Univer­sity sent its airplane down to get them, he said. The students are: 
Alumni sophomore James Delaney, who suffered a broken wrist. . 
Alumni sophomore Michael Lauinger, who was uninjured. Lewis sophomore Amy Mapother, who was uninjured. 
Walsh sophomore Catherine Mcintyre, who suffered a bruised pelvis bone. 
Maddie Hopkins, a student at the University of Missouri, and Seth Hopkins, a student at Southwest Missouri State Uni­versity, were also passengers in the van at the time of the ac­cident. Both were uninjured. 


Center for Spirituality celebrates 1Oth anniversary 
By LAURA FERGUSON Assistant News Editor 
In a small office tucked away on the first floor of Saint Mary's Madeleva Hall, a dedicated staff works to foster the mission of the Sisters of the Holy Cross-to prepare women to assume roles of leadership in the Church and society. 
Ten years ago chairman and professor of religious studies, Keith Egan created the Center for Spirituality for that purpose. Now, in the celebration of their tenth anniversary, the Center for Spirituality continues to grow and foster the mission of the Sisters of the Holy Cross for students, alumnae and friends of the College. 
In the original proposal Egan submitted to the Board of Re­gents in 1984, he outlined the several goals which he had for the Center for Spirituality. 
The Center seeks to "witness that life in Christian faith is central to all the other educa­tional benefits offered by Saint Mary's, bridge the gap between the college community and the Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, serve as a re­source for the alumnae, par­ents, and friends of the College and to make a contribution to the life of the Church in Amer­ica and at the same time to the local church in South Bend." 
Egan proposed to accomplish these goals by sponsoring workshops at Saint Mary's and at several other areas in the United States. He also aimed to collaborate with other academ-CE::.'\TER FOR SPJRITL"AUTY SAl:\TT .:'>IARY'S COLLEGE 


ic departments, such as nursing and work with Campus Ministry and Mary's Solitude in facilitat­ing spiritual programs for stu­dents, faculty, alumnae and friends of the College. 
Because Campus Ministry fo­cuses mainly on the direct min­istries such as liturgies, sacra­ments and counseling, the Cen­ter for Spirituality was designed to cater more to the spiritual dimensions and focus on a more intellectual side. 
In recent years, the Center for Spirituality has organized several lecture series aimed at education in spirituality. The most notable of these lectures, the Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality, is also the high­point of the year's anniversary celebration. Given every April, the Madeleva Lectures focus on an outstanding woman thinker in spirituality. Each lecture is published by the Paulist Press and usually becomes a best­seller, according to Egan. 
This year, Gail Porter Man­dell, professor of Humanistic Studies will be speaking on Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff, one of the most fondly remem­
see ANNIVERSARY I page 4 



'94 Literary Festival underway 
By MELISSA SHELDON News Writer 
In keeping with its tradition of bringing together authors and their readers, the twenty seventh annual Sophomore Lit­erary Festival kicked off last night with a reading by author Michael Harper. 
"The Sophomore Literary Festival brings two elements together -the author and the reader; there are few places where this union can take place," said Katie Lawler, chairman of the festival. 
Lawler and her eighteen com­mittee members have worked since last March to bring the festival to the student body. The search started with three brain storming sessions in which the committee persons formed a list of wanted authors by asking students and professors which authors they wanted to be invit­ed to the festival. This list was then divided into three rounds by order of preference. 
"Our main focus was to chose authors by how excited they were to attend the Literary Festival, " stated Lawler. "We wanted authors that wanted to be here." 
By September of last year the committee had already ar­ranged for the arrival of five authors. Charles Johnson, the second African-American au­thor to win the National Book Award and author of "Middle Passage," expressed excitement about the festival and will arrive at Notre Dame later this week. The committee also invited 

_ Joy Harjo. Harjo currently 

The Bingham Brown professor poet Michael Harper participated in the opening night of the Sophomore Literary Fesitval last evening. Harper earned the title of the Poet Laureate for the State of Rhode Island. 
teaches creative writing at the dan's successful books "His University of New Mexico and is Own Where" was chosen as one working on a new collection in the Outstanding Books of the prose narrative style entitled Year. Lurie's novel "The War "The Field of Miracles." Between the Tates" sold over a 
Two novelists will also be million copies and was made joining in the festival from New into a television feature. York. June Jordan raised in Finally, Michael Harper, Poet Brooklyn, and Allison Lurie Laureate for Rhode Island, fo­raised in the New York suburb cused his work on history as is of White Plains. One of lor­
see FESTNAL I page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Valentine's Day ... Humbug 

There are no days in the·-------­
year that I have more dis­like for than Valentine's Day. I understand that for those who are young and in love, this can be a very sig­nificant day and probably feel that I shouldn't be slamming it. However, since I am old and bitter: pipe down, read, and be Eric Reuthling happy in your own col­Photographer umn. 
My dislike for today goes back to my early grade school days. The bad news for me came about a week before the actual day when the teacher would convince all of us to make some form of a card holder for all of those valentine cards we would receive. 
Now, I've never been artsy-cutesy guy, and was much more of a barbarian in grade school than I am now, so the idea of doing anything associated with hearts -or other "girlie things"-repulsed me. This attitude often pro­duced a ragged, glue sloppy, faintly valentine­like folder which resembled nothing that the teacher had in mind. 
The mandatory giving out of cards to all the members of the class also didn't sit too well in my Star Wars ridden mind. I couldn't imagine Luke and Han giving such flimsy and "smoochie" things to the likes of Shanna Brelsford. They'd probably blast her. Despite my active protest, which mainly consisted o whining, my mother always got me plenty o cards and "strongly encouraged" me to fill them out TO EVERYONE. 
I seemed to be the only one who actively fol­lowed this rule of elementary school card giv­ing, because for many years I had fewer cards than there were people giving them. If you think getting dissed for a SYR here is bad news, imagine sitting in fourth grade with all of your friends talking about "the cool cards that Tonya gave out," and you lacking one. 
As I progressed into later years, I thought this nonsense of Valentine's Day would cease but today it continues to plague me. It came in the form of the radio. 
First, understand that I'm a slow person wak­ing up in the morning, and one of the things I do is wait in bed until a real pumped up, guitar braying, could wake the dead song comes on the radio. Then I get up. Since I'm usually tuned into a classic rock station, for most morn­ings it only takes a song or two to get me going. 
On Valentine's Day it is a different story. It seems that the people who are awake enough to phone in requests are bent upon giving their slumbering loved one a music greeting by requesting various slow songs. This is a prob­lem for me because it is impossible for me to think, much less to rise when I hear "Wonderful Tonight" at 7:10 A.M. Usually I end up spend­ing an inordinate amount of time, like the entire day, just lying there in a comatose state, eagerly waiting/praying for something by Bob Seger to get me going. 
I could go on and on about how the personals annoy me, the over abundance of red in cloth­ing, the constant braying of "Happy Valentine's Day" or derivatives thereof. and so on. There is nothing that I like about today. However, i you happen to see my fourth grade Valentine from Tonya, just drop it by my room. I'll proba­bly be in bed. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News Corrine Doran Production Elizabeth Regan Jackie Moser Sports Kathie Young Jason Kelly Accent Viewpoint Kenya Johnson Suzy Fry Graphics  



national 

LOS ANGELES 
Gas prices rose just over a penny per gallon on average during the last three weeks, a national survey showed Sunday. 
The average price of gas on Friday was $1.1086 per gallon, including all grades and taxes, according to the Lundberg Survey of 10,000 stations nationwide. 
Survey publisher Trilby Lundberg said the upward trend started in January. The last survey, taken Jan. 21, showed an average price of $1.0985 cents per gallon, up from the Jan. 7 figure of$1.0951. 
The rise "should be looked at as a partial correction of extraordinarily low prices that prevailed from a fall over­supply of gas and a winter drop in crude oil prices," Lundberg said. 
At self-serve pumps, the average price of regular unleaded gas was $1.0361, mid-grade unleaded $1.1512, premium unleaded $1.2325 and regular unleaded was $1.0647. 
At full-serve pumps, regular unleaded was $1.4313 per gallon, mid-grade unleaded was $1.5191, premium unleaded was $1.5920 and regular leaded $1.3205. 
No reunion planned, McCartney aide says 
NEW YORK 
A London newspaper report that the three surviving Beatles are planning a concert in Central Park is an "out and out lie," an aide to Paul McCartney said Sunday. A spokesman for John Lennon's family said he knew nothing about the concert either. Jeff Baker, McCartney's personal assistant, told ABC Radio News that 'there's not a shred of truth" to the report in The 


Mail on Sunday. The newspaper said McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr would perform in Central Park later this year, and would be joined on stage by Lennon's sons, Julian and Sean. The newspaper did not identify its source. It said each of the former Beatles would be paid $30 million for the concert, which would be televised worldwide, and said McCartney chose New York as a tribute to Lennon, who was gunned down in front of his Manhattan home in 1980. Baker told ABC that the report is an "out and out lie put around by optimistic promot­ers" trying to persuade the trio to perform. 
Diplomats leave as talks waver in Sarajevo 

SARAJEVO 
Bosnian Serbs besieging Sarajevo resumed turning in their big guns on Sunday after the United Nations accept­ed a compromise plan. The Muslim-dominated Bosnian government expressed concern that the Serbs were just buying time to prevent NATO air strikes that could begin Feb. 21 if the guns ringing Sarajevo are not pulled back. The compromise allows Serbs to turn in their heavy weapons at U.N.-monitored Serb bases, rather than at Sarajevo airport as originally planned, said Maj. Jose Labandeira, a U.N. spokesman. The Bosnian army object­ed. "Those weapons can be returned to combat positions very fast," said Bosnian army Gen. Fikret Muslimovic. "I am afraid that such an approach and an attempt to ap­pease the aggression further would bring a hardening of the Serbian position," said Haris Silajdzic, the Bosnian prime minister. The Serbs earlier insisted they would surrender their guns only if the Bosnian infantry aban­doned its front-line positions. But after heavy lobbying by 
U.N. officials the Serbs turned over 13 heavy weapons on Sunday. bringing the total to 36 guns: 26 Serbian and 10 Bosnian. The Bosnian Serbs are estimated to have at least 500 heavy weapons, while the Bosnian army has about 50. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 14.
Monday, Feb.l4 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 30s lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 




FRONTS: 
..,.......... ...................... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Waather. Inc. Pressure ~ ~ ,1\
H L ffi~ITII 0~§¥ L-i~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VMI argues men, women learn differently 
ROANOKE, Va. 
The issue of whether men and women learn differently is on trial as the Virginia Military Institute struggles to remain all-male. It wants a separate, different military college for women set up at a former finishing school. The Justice Department has sued VMI, saying the exclu­sion of women at the state-supported school is discrimi­natory. An appeals court agreed, but gave the state the option of setting up a similar program for women. The Justice Department returned to court Wednesday to argue that The Virginia Women's Institute for Leadership, proposed for the all-female Mary Baldwin College, is based on gender stereotypes. It wants U.S. District Judge Jackson Kiser to force VMI to admit women. Testimony was scheduled to resume Monday. The V-WIL program would exclude the 24-hour military atmosphere at the 155-year-old men's school. There would be no Spartan barracks without privacy and no boot camp indoctrination. VMI's witnesses have said women would develop as better leaders in civilian and military life without the military atmosphere and "adver­sative model" of education. 
Accused woman discusses clinic arsons 
WICHITA 
A woman accused of trying to kill an abortion doctor has provided details linking herself to abortion clinic arsons around the country over the past three years, The Wichita Eagle reported Sunday. In a series of letters and interviews with the newspaper, Shelley Shannon provid­ed details that suggest she was involved in several arsons or knows who was. Her activities are under investigation by the FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. "This could go on for some time .. .I figure at least six different states, several places in some states," she wrote in a letter to the newspaper. "That's what I get for traveling hither and yon, doing this, that and the other thing." Shannon, 37, of Grants Pass, Ore., was charged with attempted first-degree murder in the Aug. 19 shooting of George Tiller outside his clinic, Women's Health Care Services. Tiller was slightly wounded in both arms and returned to work the next day. Shannon is being held in lieu of $1 million bond awaiting a March 21 trial. In one telephone interview,-Shannon said she decid­ed in 1990 that violence against clinics was justified. "In fact, I think one baby's life is worth more than all the buildings in the world," she said. 
Adanta 51 40 Denver 56 16 Palatine 28 15 Baltimore 41 29 Los Angeles 75 49 Philadelphia 44 30 Boston 37 29 Miami 82 72 Phoenix 70 48 Chicago 27 14 Minneapolis 28 -4 St. Louis 46 25 Colombus 33 26 New Orleans 59 52 San Francisco 61 42 Dallas 55 29 New York 40 27 Seattle 43 39 
Lab Tech Brendan Regan 
T.J. Harris 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc: reserved. 
Monday, February 14, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's class elections offer students many choices 
By KATIE CAPUTO ning for the senior class. In al­Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor phabetical order they are: 
•Molly Condon for president, 
The Saint Mary's class elec­Erin Ryan as vice-president, tions will take place tomorrow Robin Clanin as secretary and in the dining hall during all Kristen Martina for treasurer. meals. •Kristin Conway, for presi­
There are three tickets run-dent, Holly Purnhage as vice-
Happy Valen~!ne's .q~y ~roltl.'''~e Any club wishing to place an':~ri'(ry in the Clu~ must do so by 4:00p.m. Thursday each week.>All will appear in the following Monday e9itiol1of .·· . Observer. Please drop off entries t?the Club, L.;a·,·().r·(ttn;amm Council office in room 206 Lafortune. 
remind all Presidents ofgraduate and undergraduate clubs to' their mailboxes on the second floor ofLaF&rtune across from the' Student Government Office. '' ;:0;;, ,,, 
2. 
ND OLD BOY RUGBY: "We're fatter and slow~I but we still need a match every now and again!" Attention all graduate students and fac­ulty members! Ifyou can't get rugby out ofyour system and are inter­ested in participating in a "casual" rugby team/social club to re-live the ,, glory days, call Jeffat 634-3004 (leave a message). The dub will only · be formed if enough people are interested, so please don't hesitate call. 

3. 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL will meet on Tuesday, February 15 in the CSC coffeehouse at 8:30p.m. New members are welcomed!. 

4. 
S.A.D.D. PLANNING MEETING will be held Wednesday, February 16 at 9 p.m. in the Foster Room ofLaFortune. All are wel­come to attend; please bring a friend and your feelings about Karaoke! 

5. 
COMPUTER APPLICATIONS HONOR SOCIETY is sponsor­ing a presentation by Coopers & Lybrand Computer Assurance Services. They will be discussing employment opportunities for intern­ships and full-time positions. The meeting will be held Wednesday, February 16 in room 222 of the Library. 



president, Jo Hackenbruck for secretary and Liz Broghammer for treasurer. 
•Jennifer O'Dell for president, Jennifer Wicker for vice presi­dent, Erin Kopfer for secretary and Beth Renken as treasurer. 
Implementing more commu­nication throughout the class including off campus students is a top priority, according to Condon. 
"It seems that in the past, there have been a number of activities, but since students don't know about them, they have not had a large turnout; we'd like to change that," Con­don said. 
Increasing class unity and in­volvement is essential, accord­ing to Conway. 

Her ticket would like to estab­lish a program for students to work at a city soup kitchen. 
"We'd also like to increase awareness about post-graduate scholarships and work with the Counseling and Career Devel­opment Center to help seniors prepare for their future," Con­way said. 
In order to have the best se­nior year, they will need the input from the rest of the class, according to Wicker. 
"Our whole campaign is based on implementing change and producing results," Wicker said. "The only way to do this is to encourage seniors to speak out." 
There are also three tickets running for junior class officers. In alphabetical order they are: 
•Meggan Awe for president, with Jennifer Doyle as vice­president, Maureen Zamarelli as secretary and Sarah Fol-
Happy Valentine's Day, 
Robert 
I'll love you always, 
Susan 
strom for treasurer. 

•Jen 
Paluszak for president with Erin Shern as vice-presi­dent, Kari Fantasia for secre­tary and Paulette Raczkowski for treasurer. 

•Kathy 
Petrovic for president, Heather McDonald for vice­president, Mary Beth Hozl as secretary and Amy Misch for treasurer. 


Improved relations with the junior class at Notre Dame is a priority, according to Awe. They are interested in fund-raisers and increasing the amount of class input in the activities and events, according to Awe. 
"We want to know what they want us to do so we can accom­plish it for them," Awe said. 
Opening the lines of com­munication by using the col­lege's e-mail system is their main thrust, according to Raczkowski. They hope to use the system to record the min­utes from each board meeting, she said. 
Making the student govern­ment system open to more ideas and opinions is the primary goal for the Misch ticket. 
Misch said that in order to achieve this, they would like to "specifically delegate power to more people to encourage a di­versity of ideas." 
There is only one ticket run­ning for sophomore class board. 
Laura Lob is running for pres­ident, Emily Ruffner for vice­president, Becky Kellogg for secretary and Kathleen Zimmer for treasurer. 
All have served on the fresh­man board this year. Through their experience with each other, they would be able to accomplish many goals, said Ruffner. 





SI~Nitti~S 
ifyou are thinking about service next year please consider 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
One-year volunteer program in the U.S. and two­Diverse service opportunities, including: and-a-half-year program in Chile which * Teaching empha...~izes: * AIDS Ministries 
* 
Simple lifestyle * Homeless 

* 
Service * Battered Women 

* 
Community Living * Seniors' Ministries 

* 
Spirituality Hispanic Ministries


* 

Abused Children
* 

u.s. sites in: * Youth Ministries 
Phoenix, Arizona Oakland, California 17-year-old program sponsored by the
* 
Colorado Springs, Colorado Congregation of Holy Cross Brockton, Massachusetts Pordand, Oregon Application Deadline:
* 
Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania Chile March 4, 1994
* 
u.s. March 18, 1994 
For more information please contact: 
jeff Hamn1es HCA Office 631-5521 Mary Ann Roemer Center for Social Concerns 631-7949 
Festival 
continued from page 1 
seen in his latest work "Every Eye Ain't Asleep: An Anthology of African-American Writers Since 1945." 
The committee planned this year's festival with a different focus. 
"This year we wanted the Lit­erary Festival to be just that-a festival and a celebration of lit­erature rather than a lecture series," said Lawler. 
In addition to the nightly readings there will also be in­formal discussions with the guest authors. 
This festival is great for the aspiring writers, lovers of liter­ature or the readers who just want to meet the person be­hind the writing, according to Lawler. 
"I know it's easy to let a win­ter February week pass by without leaving your room, but this festival with dialogue literature would be a really sad thing to miss," Lawler said. 

Rushdie remains in hiding from Islamic world 
ByALEXEFTY 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN, Iran 

Five years after the late Aya­tollah Ruhollah Khomeini sen­tenced Salman Rushdie to death for allegedly insulting Is­lam, Iranian leaders remain adamant that all Muslims have a religious duty to kill him. 
The "fatwa," or Islamic reli­gious decree, that Khomeini is­sued Feb. 14, 1989, was un­precedented in modern times. 
It caused a storm of interna­tional protest led by Britain, Rushdie's country. It widened the fissure between Islam and Christianity after centuries of distrust and strained Iran's re­lations with the West. It was endorsed by the Organization of the Islamic Conference, which represents 51 Muslim states. 
Rushdie has so far escaped the assassin's bullet or knife. He has been in hiding and un­der guard by Scotland Yard's elite Special Branch since Khomeini declared him a tar­get, then died four months later of cancer. 
The death sentence was ex­tended to anyone associated with publishing Rushdie's al­legedly blasphemous novel "The Satanic Verses." Several translators and others have been killed or wounded by Is­lamic zealots. 
Iran's Khordad 15 Founda­tion, a religious charity, has offered a $2 million bounty to anyone who slays Rushdie. The bounty was increased last year by an unspecified amount. 
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Khomeini's successor as Iran's supreme religious and political leader, has ruled the fatwa ir­reversible. 
Western diplomats in Tehran believe that appeals to Iranian leaders to withdraw the fatwa are unrealistic, because that would mean questioning the wisdom of Khomeini as the di­vinely-inspired leader of the Islamic revolution. His word is considered infallible. 

They believe it could only be withdrawn if the fundamental­ist clergy-dominated govern­ment is no longer in power ­and there is no sign of that hap­pening, even if it means contin­uing Iran's international isola­tion. 
The government was strongly criticized by Tehran newspa­pers last week for allowing the screening of a film with a script by Turkish writer Aziz Nessin, who has published "The Satanic Verses" in his country. 
The radical Jomhouri daily had denounced Nessin as some­one "who no longer has a place among Muslims and should, like Rushdie, be killed." 
The Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance banned all Nessin's works in Iran and or­dered his works removed from bookstores and libraries. 
Rajaei Khorassani, a leading Iranian lawmaker, believes the best way to deal with the fatwa is to quietly forget it and get on with normalizing relations. 
"I believe we should avoid politicizing the case of Rushdie," Khorassani, chair­man of the Parliament's Human Rights Committee and a former ambassador to the United Nations, told The Associated Press. 
He contended that President Hashemi Rafsanjani's govern­ment "has not made the slight­est attempt against the life of Salman Rushdie, either offi­cially or in a covert manner." 
How true that is may never be known. But Western gov­ernments have accused Tehran of being behind the assassina­tions over the past five years of exiled dissidents and non-Ira­nians opposed to Iran's brand of Islamic fundamentalism. 
Khorassani, who has advo­cated improved relations with the United States and criticized Iran's hard-line clerical leader­ship, also said that the fatwa cannot be lifted by Khomeini's heirs. 
Anniversary 
continued from page 1 
bered presidents of Saint Mary's College. Her lecture ti­tled, "Madeleva: One Woman's Life" will be given on April 14 at 7:30 p.m. in the Moreau Lit­tle Theater. 
Another scheduled event cel­ebrating the Center for Spiri­tuality's tenth anniversary is the spring lecture series titled, "What the Cross Means to Me." These noon lectures will be held on Feb. 23, March 2, 16, 23, and 30 in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. 
The Center for Spirituality is also planning the School of Sa­cred Theology 50th reunion and the Summer Seminar on Carmelite Spirituality. 
The reunion of the Sacred School of Theology will be held May 24-25 and will reunite graduates of the first graduate program designed to provide instruction for religious educa­tion teachers. 
"The School of Sacred Theol­ogy, which was founded by Sis­ter Madeleva in 1943, was a forerunner to the Center for Spirituality," Egan said. "At the time that it was created the School of Sacred Theology was a creative, daring, and innova­tive step in educating women in theology. It was clearly an inspiration for the Center for Spirituality." 
The final part of the tenth anniversary celebration is the Seminar on Carmelite Spiritu­ality held June 10-19. The eighth seminar held at Saint 
r Fair , Weather Fares.....1 
Mexico  $1H  
Costa Rica  $175  
Guatemala  $165  
Panama City  $165  
Rio de Janeiro  $515  

Fares are each wey based on aroundtrip pur­chase from Chicago. Taxes not included and restrictions apply. Call for other worldwide destinations. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels maga&ine 
Mary's will focus on the theme prayer, solitude, community for Spirituality's main focus is ters of the Holy Cross in medi­of Education for Contemplation and daily Eucharist." not Christian service, they do cally and socially serving the and will offer "an experience of The Center for Spirituality hope that it comes out of these poor of the area. Carmelite spirituality and the also encourages small discus­communities. "We would encourage service opportunity to study this spiri­sion groups, known as Bread Last fall, one such community such as this again," said Egan. tuality with the guidance of the and Wine communities, at Saint traveled to Appalachia during "I don't think that Christianity Carmelite Forum through Mary's. Although the Center fall break to work with the sis-is authentic without service." 
February 1994 
President Malloy, 

In these days, when so many institutions are struggling with the ques-­tion of sexual orientation, it is necessary that our university not remain silent. In particular, we, the Graduate Student Council, urge you to initiate the process of formulating an official and public statement which repudiates discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation alone in the employment and advancement of faculty, students, and staff at this university. 
Further, we feel that there is a clear mandate from the Church to enact such a policy. Both the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith and, more importantly, the new Catechism of the Catholic Church have noted the distinction which must be drawn between homosexual orientation and activity. We also note the declaration in the CDF's "Letter to the Bishops of the Catholic Church on the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons" that the Church "refuses to consider a person as a 'heterosexual' or a 'homosexual' and insists that every person has a fundamental identity: the creature of God, and by grace, his child and heir to eternal . " (Section 16) Where the Church refuses so to categorize persons, surely a Catholic university must also refuse. 
Therefore, in light of the aims of this university as expressed in the col-­loquy for the Year 2000, and especially in light of the renewed emphasis on the Catholic character of this place of study, let us serve as a model for a Catholic response to this pressing social question. Let us make a clear state-­ment to the members of the Notre Dame community that discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation will not be tolerated. 
The Graduate Student Council 
t 
~------~-·-~-~--­

Monday, February 14, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Architecture program evaluated 
By JOSLIN WARREN Smith said. chitecture students. News Writer The accreditation board "It gives the students an op­must verify the program and portunity to demonstrate 
The School of Architecture is what is being taught because through their paintings and exhibiting the work of many of the School of Architecture is an drawings what they are learn­its students in the main hall of accredited program which pre­ing," Thomas said. the architecture building while pares students for a career in "The graphs and models that the school is being re-accred­architecture and the licensing make up architecture really ited, according to Architecture procedure that is involved. give a clear picture of what Department Chairman Thomas "The most visual aspect of the they are doing and what our Smith. event is that we mount the program does," he said. "We 
"The National Architecture work of students from the past want to make people aware Accreditation Board is a team 3-5 years," Thomas explained. and welcome them to come and of architects that comes to visit The exhibition of students' see the students' work." 
the program every five years to work allows people to see for The exhibits will be on dis­check out the program and see themselves the successful pro­play starting today and for what students are doing," jects that are completed by ar-Junior Parents Weekend. 
Southeast recovers frotn icestortn 
By ROGER PETTERSON digging out from last week's National Weather Service me­Associated Press heavy snowfall from the 12th in teorologist in Taunton, Mass. a series of storms, got a thin "It doesn't look like there are 
Over half a million Ten­coating of ice Sunday. Dozens going to be any big snowstorms nesseans and thousands else­of accidents were reported, in­into next weekend." where in the Southeast still had cluding one 20-car pileup in Tennessee was especially no electricity Sunday as crews Massachusetts in which no one hard-hit by last week's storm, labored to replace power lines was seriously injured. which began Thursday with brought down by thick layers of freezing rain from the southern frozen rain. But for the first time in Plains to the East Coast and 
"There will still be some peo­weeks, the Northeast had no then turned northward with
The Observer/Brett Moraski 

ple without power as late as more heavy snow forecast in heavy snow.
Mardi Gras 
Thursday," said Cecil Whaley of the foreseeable future. 
A member of The Road Apples, a campus band, jams at the SUB 
the Tennessee Emergency "Maybe a little bit Wednesday Whaley estimated that 
sponsored Mardi Gras celebration on Saturday night. Management Agency. or Thursday, but it would be 240,000 households, or more Parts of the Northeast, still very little," said Lee Czepyha, a than a half-million people, were still waiting for workers to clear broken tree limbs and reconnect power lines. Workers had restored power to about 423,000 customers. 
Utility workers in Maryland fought to keep up with outages Sunday as trees continued to crack. Utilities said more than 50,000 customers were still blacked out. 
"You walk out and stand still and you can hear the trees falling," said Jan Penn, a spokeswoman for Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative. "We're losing ground right now. We've got some back on only to lose others." 
"It almost sounds like a pop­corn machine out there," said Marty Madden, a disc jockey at WMJS-FM in Prince Frederick, Md. Lynchburg, Va., remained under an overnight curfew Sunday night for the third straight night. The city had no street lights and businesses had no alarm systems, said Barry Martin, the city's deputy coordi­nator of emergency services. 
Virginia utilities reported an estimated 156,000 customers still without lights Sunday and some 6,000 customers awaited reconnection in West Virginia. 
The right time. The right place. Blue chip. Green light State Farm processing equipment. You'll goState Farm is hiring. is one of America's leading insur­as far and as fast as you can. 
If you're a senior with a data ance companies. Through inno­You couldn't have a more solid processing, computer science or vative marketing and a proud base to build a career on. math background, there may be service tradition it has become Contact your campus a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Placement Director about waiting for you in one of the larg­homeowner's insurer, and one of State Farm today. est corporate data processing the top life insurance companies Or write Daryl Watson, Assistant facilities in the country. in the country. Director, Home Office Personnel 
There are actuarial and audit­You'll receive expert training. Relations, One State Farm Plaza, Indian Ridge Plaza 
Next to Venture

ing jobs open, too. You'll work on statEK>f-the-art data Bloomington, Illinois 61710. Grope Rd.. Mishawaka 
277-7946 

STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
expires 2-28-94 



---------~----__, 
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 14, 1994 

Study finds disparities in 
Clinton to cut welfare for poor 
Clinton's health-care plan 
Plans to increase child care for single mothers 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL Under Clinton's plan, most of Associated Press the 31 million people on Medi­caid would get subsidies to buy WASHINGTON regular health insurance 
States would spend $8 billion through the same new alliances less on medical aid to the poor that would be used by much of under President Clinton's the rest of the population. health reforms, but there The federal and state gov­would still be wide disparities ernments would still pay for in federal help for those Medicaid for welfare recipients, patients, an Urban Institute and states would be required to study concludes. pay the alliances what they 
The savings might not mate­now spend on non-welfare rialize for states already accus­Medicaid recipients. tomed to getting extra federal Also, the states and Washing­Medicaid money through ton would still split Medicaid provider taxes and donations, costs of nursing home care for the researchers said. the poor and some other ser­
But overall, the states that vices. But some payments to 
now contribute $61 billion to­hospitals that care for the poor ward the $140 billion Medicaid and uninsured in large num­program would wind up spend­bers would be largely elimi­ing about $53 billion under nated. Clinton's plan, the report "Most states will spend less 
states. The president's proposal from their own revenues under would subsidize insurance for the Health Security Act than low-income families and some they do currently, despite the small businesses. spending that will still be re­
Officials in some states have quired of them," said the Ur­
expressed concern that the ban Institute's John Holahan Clinton reforms might hurt and David Liska. them by eliminating most fed­"In general, the distribution 
eral subsidies for the uninsured of federal spending after re­and leaving illegal immigrants form tends to benefit lower-in­uncovered. come states," they said. 
A task force set up by New They estimated total spend­
York Gov. Mario Cuomo re­ing on health and welfare low­cently claimed the state would income residents would range lose $342 million in 1997, but from $1,436 in low-income would gain money in later states to $2,200 in high-income 
years. states -a 53 percent range. The Clinton administration, The study estimated the fed­
by contrast, claims its radical eral government spends $327 changes in Medicaid would per state resident through the save states $47 billion from Medicaid program. That figure 
1996 to 2000, including $24 would climb to $482 with the billion in the year 2000 alone. subsidies under the Clinton re­form plan. 
Binkie#l, 
When l came here five months ago, I never thought I would meet and fall in love with the greatest guy on the face of this earth.-.But I did, when I met you. 
Thank you for loving me in spite of my being a G.D.l. at times. 
And thanks for showing me that ·You can polish an Irishman forever, but you can never make him shine: 
I can't wait for you to come down to C-Villle this summer for some great pasta and walks on the beach. 
Happy Valentines Day. 
n AMO, 
Giusy 
Student Managers 
How would you like: 
•Free 
Books 

• 
Free Basketball Tickets 

•Working 
with Notre Dame coaches and athletes 

• 
Earning a varsity letter 

•Travelling 
with Notre Dame athletic teams 

• 
Earning scholarship money 


Ifyour answer to any of these questions is yes, you should consider joining the STUDENT MANAGERS ORGANIZATION. Please come to an informational meeting in the LOFTUS FOOTBALL AUDITORIUM on 
Tuesday, February 15, 1994 at 8:00p.m. 
Any questions cal/1-6482 
By JENNIFER DIXON Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration is considering taxing or slashing welfare benefits to the poor, el­derly and disabled to finance expansions in training and child care for millions of single mothers on public assistance, officials say. 
The administration's welfare reform task force is also eyeing strict limits on federal cash payments to the growing num­ber of elderly people who im­migrate to the United States legally and then retire on Sup­plemental Security Income, a senior administration official said Sunday. 
To pay for its overhaul of a welfare system that supports 5 million families with children, most of them headed by a sin­gle mother, the administration has decided it must find offset­ting savings in other federal welfare programs. 
But an advocate for the poor says the very cuts the adminis­tration is now considering in SSI, food stamps and Aid to Families with Dependent Chil­dren could hurt the working poor and near-poor in order to help other poor women get jobs. 
A senior administration offi­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the task force is considering several options to pay for welfare reform, but that no decisions are final. 

"We are committed to a deficit-neutral plan in which revenue from these options would be used to pay for the new investments in child care, education and training," the official said. 
President Clinton's welfare reform legislation, to be intro­duced this spring, will seek to limit welfare benefits to single mothers to 24 months. Women would be given the training and day care they need to get a job and after two years, would be required to find a job in the pri­vate sector. Those who are left behind would be required to do community service work. 
Among the cost-cutting op­tions under consideration is a plan to cap emergency AFDC assistance, a program that helps poor families avert being evicted or having their utilities shut off. In the fifth year after the administration's welfare re­form takes effect, the cap would save $500 million. 
Also on the table is a plan to treat AFDC, SSI and food stamps as taxable income, much like unemployment in­surance, so that a person who lands a job after being on wel­fare part of the year would pay taxes on those benefits. 
The government could save from $1.5 billion to $5 billion in the fifth year of welfare reform, but advocates for the poor says such taxes undercut the admin­istration's often-repeated promises to "make work pay." 
Robert Greenstein, director of the Center on Budget and Pol­icy Priorities, said taxing wel­fare would primarily hurt low­income working families who collect food stamps and could push them deeper into poverty. 
Another option under consid­eration is to limit SSI benefits to elderly immigrants. 
The Clinton plan would re­quire than the income of an immigrant's sponsor be count­ed in calculating welfare bene­fits until the immigrant becomes a citizen, not just the first five years after arriving in the United States. 
That would save up to $4 bil­lion in the fifth year. 
The Treasury Department is also looking for ways to root out fraud in the Earned Income Tax Credit program for the working poor, with potential savings of up to $1.5 billion a year. 
The administration official said the task force is also study­ing limits on SSI disability pay­ments to drug addicts and alco­holics, which have been grow­ing rapidly in recent years. 

Spring 
Break Loan 
$300 minimum $300 maximum Deferred payments 9.4% APR Students with good credit or no credit qualify 
No co-signer needed. Bring your student J.D. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 288-NDCU 
Independent of the University 
Monday, February 14, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Buthelezi prepares for violence after boycotting elections 
By DONNA BRYSON 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi told followers Sunday to prepare themselves for "casualties and even death" af­ter his party's decision to boy­cott the nation's first all-race election. 
The Inkatha Freedom Party's decision to sit out the April vot­ing will lead to heightened vio­lence, Buthelezi said. He ac­cused the rival African National Congress of having already started "ethnic cleansing" against his people. 
An ANC leader told 5,000 chanting supporters Sunday that it was Inkatha and the white right-wing that was lead­ing the country toward civil war. 
"We warn them that we have put our lives down for freedom before," Tokyo Sexwale, the ANC's leader in the Johannes­burg-Pretoria region, said at a rally in the violence-scarred black community of Tokoza outside Johannesburg. "If we have to do it again, we will not hesitate." 
The Zulu nationalist Inkatha party called for the boycott Sat­urday, hours before the dead­line for registering for the first election to include South Africa's black majority. Nine­teen other parties, including the ANC and the governing National Party, met the dead­line. 
The ANC, which led the fight against white minority rule since its founding 82 years ago, is expected lead the voting in the April 26-28 election. 
Months of talks involving Inkatha, right-wing whites, the government and the ANC dead­locked last week over how much power regional govern­ments would have under a new constitution. 
Negotiating as the Freedom Alliance, Inkatha and the white right-wing want autonomous or independent homelands where they can govern themselves and maintain privileges enjoyed under apartheid. 
The government and ANC re­ject setting up territories on the basis ofrace or tribe. 
"There are people in this country who are claiming that they must be given their own land. That will not happen," ANC head Nelson Mandela told a cheering crowd of 5,000 dur­ing a campaign speech Sunday in Retreat, in the southwest. 

President F.W. de Klerk scheduled a meeting Monday with Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini, Buthelezi's nephew, seeking to break the impasse. The ANC set talks next week with the Bophuthatswana black homeland, another Freedom' Alliance member. 
"We'll continue to try to ne­gotiate, even after the elec­tions," Mandela told reporters. 
Speaking in the northeast town of Empangeni to more than 8,000 members of the Inkatha youth wing, Buthelezi hammered at the ANC's al­liance with the South African Communist Party and at the in­ability of its leaders to stop political violence. 
"lt is impossible for me to lie to you and reassure you that the IFP's opposition to fighting 
the election ...will not bring casualties and even death," he said. 
"If you look at the 'ethnic cleansing' that is taking place on the East Rand, they seem to have started on this kind of genocide," Buthelezi said. 
The East Rand area has been the center of bloody clashes be­tween Inkatha and the ANC. Ethnic cleansing is a eu­phemism coined in Bosnia­Herzegovina to describe the practice of one ethnic group using killings and threats to drive members of another group out of an area. 
Calling up references to an­other historical tragedy, Buthelezi said the ANC and its Communist allies might try to "exterminate the Zulus as the Nazis tried to exterminate the Jews." 

Put one of these to use on February 17 and see what develops. 
If you're a Junior majoring in accounting, February 17 could develop into quite an interesting evening. Because that's when the Emst & Young Photo Hunt will take place. It's a splendid opportunity to show off all that intellectual superiority, resourcefulness, analytical brilliance and quantitative prowess you've been accumulating all these years. Plus, it'll be fun. Clues in one hand, Polaroid in
THE ERNST & YOUNG PHOTO HUNT  
another, you and your team will  scour the inside of  
Thursday, February 17 • 7 pm • LaFortune Student Center  LaFortune Student Center in pursuit of answers to some of  
All Juniors majoring in accounting are invited 

L.,_----------------' the most devilishly clever riddles ever conceived about, well, 
about that building. We'll meet promptly at 7 pm at The Huddle, on the orient side. To let us know that you'll 
be there, RSVP to the Ernst &Young Recruiting Department at (800) 869-9899 by Monday, February 14. 
You never know what you might find. After all, it could develop into a Summer Internship at Emst & Young. illERNST&YOUNG 

You Are Invited to Attend 
"Winning in the Value-Conscious '90s" 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation 
on the Key to Creating and Leveraging 
Consumer Value 
Featuring 

Mike Milligan Senior Vice President 
New Date: Tuesday, February 15 
5:30p.m. 

Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Rescheduled from january 20, due to inclement weather. We apologize for any inconvenience. 
Reception  Meet P&G managers from:  
immediately following.  • Finance  
Food and beverages  • Sales  
will be served.  • Management Systems  
Dress is casual.  • Product Development  
Students from  • Product Supply  
all majors welcome.  • Brand Management  


CAMPUSES 
Monday, February 14, 1994 Page9 
NOTRE DAME/ ST. MARv·s
College honor codes combat dishonesty 
Academic cheating has been 
around as long as the univer­sity setting has itself. 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
To counteract this, Notre
News Writer 
Dame modified its Code of 
If one student sees another 
Honor seven years ago. It now cheating during a test, or allows the students to play an knows that someone has pla­equally important role as the giarized a book or paper, policy professors and administration at Princeton and Duke obliges in the reporting and punishing that student to report such vio­of dishonest fellow classmates. lations to the honor committee. According to Rev. Oliver But at Georgetown, no policy Williams, associate provost, exists to deal with such situa­each college is responsible for tions. setting up and choosing mem­
Nothing binds institutions of bers for their own committee. higher learning to implement It is requested that two fac­an honor codes or to enforce ulty and three student them. When a school does have representatives make up each a formal code, its policy varies committee, but each depart­from school to school and no ment has the liberty to modify one code mirrors another. Out this requirement. Additional of codes at Notre Dame, students may volunteer to help Northwestern, Duke, Princeton out with the investigation and and Harvard, only those of hearing processes. Princeton and Duke are some­On the average, there are what similar. about 15 cases a semester. 
Whether a university has a Some cases are dismissed if formal honor code depends 
there is not sufficient evi­mainly on student demand. investigates an average of 18 chief of The Hoya, George­H. Carr. The decision to sign 
dence. Cheating was so rampant at cases per year. Of those, the town's student paper, students. the contract rests with the stu­
"We're not trying to elimi­Princeton in 1892 that two stu­board tries five or six and, on Of Georgetown's five colleges, dents, 
nate students, we're trying to dents approached the Dean and average, slaps a one-year sus­only the School of Foreign Ser­"If they don't sign it and don't 
help people grow," Williams asked for a formal code, and pension on three. vice has an honor code. The turn it in we'll never know," 
said. Princeton's had a code ever Duke's honor code committee other colleges, Peterson said, said Carr. "We don't check it. 
If warranted, a trial is held since. Last Spring at Duke, stu­also has two branches. The "are not very hot on the idea. The idea of forcing somebody to 
to decide ifthe student is guilty dents voted to initiate their own Honor Council coordinates edu­The students say professors sign it seems to be going a step 
or not. Both the student and policy. cation and promotion of the should do more themselves" to further." Carr added that 
their accuser are questioned At Princeton students are on new policy while the Under­stop cheating." "most of them sign it but not all 
by the committee. If the stu­their honor not to give or re­graduate Judicial Board inves­Peterson also noted that, in of them." 
dent is guilty, then the commit­ceive information and to report tigates violations and renders the student's eyes, the com­Northwestern employs a team 
tee decides the penalty violations, according to Chris judgment on everything from petitive atmosphere of George­of counselors to mediate 
depending on the severity of Workman, chairman of the plagiarism to fraternity viola­town would make an honor between suspected violators 
the case. This ranges from Princeton University Honor tions. code problematic. and the formal board. 
either an "F" on the assign­Committee. For this reason, The new policy caused a dif­"There's such an air of "Sometimes," said Carr, "the 
ment or for the entire class said Workman, exams at ference between first-year stu­competitiveness that everyone's informal mediation of coun­
and possibly suspension for Princeton are not governed by dents and upperclassmen, ac­afraid of it," she said, adding selors is much more effective. I 
repeat offense. proctors. cording to Honor Council that "the idea that someone bet our counselors handle 
A special committee is re­"Every time they [the stu­Chairman Eric Greitens. would rat on you whether or about ten cases a year." 
sponsible for the education of dents] take an exam they sign a Greitens said the Honor Council not you've done anything is Punishments for violations 
the code to freshmen by acting pledge. It's just a sentence say­held forums in all the freshman scary." usually result in suspending the 
out a skit during Freshman ing they didn't violate the honor dormitories last semester. An exception to the general perpetrator for one year. 
Orientation. The members are code," Workman said. "If "A lot of students here were rule of student demand is Expulsions are rare. 
chosen from students who someone refused to sign its coming from environments Northwestern. Administrators Carr added that in his 20­
apply to join. considered prima facie evi­where they had an honor code within the various colleges im­year teaching career, he has 
"We're not involved with the dence that the person violated in their high school," said plemented their own codes for seen many students leave 
trials. We have no real power the code." Greitens. their particular schools without before a formal trial to avoid 
since it's handled within the Two separate committees "What's interesting," added demand from students or the stigma of being seen as a 
separate departments," said administer Princeton's honor Greitens, "is that in the past teachers. cheater. "They voluntarily 
committee member Tim Ah­code. Workman's branch in­almost half of the violations in­NU's McCormick School of leave feeling totally discredit­
ern. vestigates reported violations, volved first-year students. So Engineering and Applied ed," said Carr. 
Dishonesty is handled simi­while the Committee on Disci­far we haven't had any viola­Sciences initiated an honor "Most of it [violations] is just 
larly at St. Mary's College, but pline deals with reports of pla­tions involving first-year stu­code two years ago. Upon ar­people making a stupid decision 
with less student involvement. giarism, campus theft and sex­dents." rival, freshmen are handed a at a certain time," said 
"In the past, we've had other ual harrassment. Most students at Georgetown copy of the honor code to sign, Princeton's Workman. "Very 
students report cheating, but Workman said his committee, balk at an honor code, accord­said Associate Dean of Under­few of the crimes are pre-medi­
it's mostly the faculty who re­made up of nine members, ing to Molly Peterson, editor-in-graduate Engineering Stephen tated. 
ports it," said Theresa Marcy, assistant to the vice president. 
BRIEFS 
If a student is accused of Student suspended for wake letter criticizing Martin Luther women walking backward The Confederate flag, to be 
cheating, the professor reports King, Jr. and submitting it to through a gate on the campus officially lowered in April, will 
this to Marcy. Marcy helps the
up calls 
the University of North Carolina of Mississippi University for be replaced by a new one 
professor decide if there is suf­newspaper under a different Women to ensure that they designed by a grade-school stu­
ficient evidence available to A student at Geneva College student's name against whom meet the perfect man has dent on his computer that 
make a case. The student is who had repeatedly complained he sought revenge, freshman resumed with the gate's repa­maintains the red, white, and 
then informed of the charge, about a malfunctioning alarm Douglas Nabors was charged ration after two years of blue and stars and bars themes, 
with the right to appeal the system in his dorm that disrupt­with a misdemeanor for the absence. but in a less connotative pat­
charge. If appealed, a trial is ed his sleep programmed his submission of libelous material Destroyed by a tornado, the tern. 
set up with a board. computer to make early-morn­to the press. 74-year-old "Old Maid's Gate" 
The board consists of three ing calls to the homes of admin­Editors of The Carolinian dis­was recently rebuilt, allowing College damaged in quake 
members: a student chosen by istrators at the college. tributed flyers around campus freshmen Misty High and 
student government, a faculty
scheduled to reopen
After tracing the calls to the explaining the situation after Demeka Parker to be the first 
member chosen by the faculty phone of Mark Schaefer, Brian Nance, the supposed to resume the tradition. 
board, and an administrator. administrators suspended the author of the letter, received One month after the 
This board determines the senior electical-engineering death threats and was forced to New flag to be raised at Northridge earthquake struck 
charge of the student and the student for one week for what move to an undisclosed apart­California State University at 
penalty, which is rarely
Dixie College 

he said was an attempt to get ment off-campus. Northridge class will resume 
beyond failure in a course. even with those responsible for As a result, editors at the next week. 
"Very seldom do I get a case
After receiving criticism

not fixing the disruptive alarm. newspaper have sworn to check Two classrooms were dam­where a student appeals. The
about the Confederate battle

The alarm in Schaefer's dormi­the authorship of each letter aged as was the science build­faculty are usually very careful flag that flew over the campus a fire cau·sed by the
tory has since been repaired. they receive. ing in 
about their accusations,"
in St. George, Utah, administra­

earthquake. A parking garage Marcy stated. 
tors at Dixie College sponsered 

Newspaper revenge causes Old Maid's Gate returns to also collapsed during an after­
Marcy said that most cases 
a contest in elementary schools 

shock. 
reported are plagiarism rather
death threats Mississippi U. for Women to design a new flag that would 
than incidents of cheating on 
"be more sensitive to new stu­

Information from The 
tests. 
The tradition of freshmen dents," a spokesman said. 
-ZorMarin

After writing a controversial Chronicle ofHigher Education 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor.............................. Suzy Fry  Ad Design Manager ...................... Stcph Goldman  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor ................ , ................ Jake Peters  OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in·Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. leners and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  63I-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  63I-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  63I-454I  Day Editor/Production  63I-5303  
Business Office  63I-53I3  Advertising  63 I -6900/8840  
Sports  63I-4543  Systems/OTS  63I-8839  
News/Photo  63I-5323  Office Manager  63I-747I  


Notre Dame torn between the Church and State 
Two recent events invite us to  ation rather than command  health services, sent to "all fac­ does  Notre  Dame  do  this?  State commands, Notre Dame  
reflect on the University of  compliance. And their loopholes  ulty and staff' a memo and an  According  to  the  memo,  obeys with surpassing zeal. In  
Notre Dame's claim, stated in  are big enough to drive the ice  "educational brochure" entitled  "Indiana Public Law 123-88  contrast, when the Catholic  
the Land O'Lakes declaration  rink's Zamboni through them.  "HIV and AIDS." The brochure  Section 32 requires all public  bishops speak, not to command  
adopted by Notre Dame and  These symbolic Ordinances  contains, among other things, a  and private schools and institu­ but to plead for compliance  
other major Catholic universi­ pose no threat to, and effective­ set of eight detailed instructions  tions of higher education to an­ with norms established by the  
ties in 1967, that "the Catholic  ly require no action from any­ on "How to use condoms (rub­ nually provide information re­ Vicar of Christ, Notre Dame  
university must have a true au­ body.  Nevertheless,  Notre  bers)." This column will spare  garding AIDS to all employees."  discovers its courage and  a  
tonomy and academic freedom  Dame objects.  That law, however, requires  principle of "true autonomy,"  
in the face of authority of what­ever kind, clerical or lay, exter­ Notre Dame's response relied  ' Notre Dame has not  only the provision of "medical information on...[p]recautions  the sham character of which is evident from its selective appli­ 
nal to the academic community  on the Land O'Lakes statement  liberated itself from  that reduce the risk of contract­ cation.  
itself." The first event was University  and said, "A university that claims to be Catholic, like the  "external" authority. For  ing the disease." It would not seem to require the promotion  In fact, Notre Dame has not liberated itself from "external"  
President Father Edward A.  University  of  Notre  Dame,  the limited, moral author­ of condoms by a Catholic uni­ authority.  For  the  limited,  
Malloy's Dec. 14 release of "the Official Response of Notre Dame" to the Ordinances pro­ stands in a relationship of inde­pendence from but respect toward the pastoral authorities  ity of the Church, it has substituted the peremp­ versity, especially in light of the new federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act which increases  moral authority of the Church, it has substituted the peremp­tory and amoral authority of  
posed by the Catholic bishops to implement Ex Corde Ecclesiae. the apostolic constitution of  of the Church, as must its Department of Theology .... We urge further and expanded dia­ tory and amoral authority of the State and the sec­ protection for the free exercise of religion. Nevertheless, Notre Dame obeys the law without  the State and the secular aca­demic establishment.  
Catholic higher education. That  logue with a view to determine  ular academic establish­ challenge and exceeds it by  Our leaders reject the sym­ 
constitution, approved by Pope John Paul II, mandated that  how, in the spirit of Apostolic Constitution,  the the  ment.'  instructing its employees in detail on how to put on and use  bolic Ordinances proposed by the bishops. They accept. with­ 
"the institutional fidelity of the  Catholic character of our insti­ a condom.  out asserting possible legal de­ 
university to the Christian mes­ tution might be strengthened in  As reported in The Observer  fenses, the dictates of the as­ 
sage includes a recognition of  the context of respect for a col­ on Feb. 2,  Seager has resigned  sorted politicians who comprise  
and adherence to the teaching  legial  process  and  for  the  the details. This is the second  as director of university health  the Indiana legislature. Notre  
authority of the Church in mat­ canons of the academy in the  year in a row that Notre Dame  services to accept a similar ap­ Dame interprets those dictates,  
ters of faith and morals." Ex  United States. We urge this ... to  has given these instructions to  pointment  at  Clemson  beyond their expressed intent,  
Corde Ecclesiae  further states,  promote what would be most  its employees. The practice,  University. The problem is not  to require condom instruction  
"In ways appropriate to the dif­ helpful  for  us,  but also  to  therefore, can hardly be dis­ one of personnel but of policy.  contrary to the law of God.  
ferent academic disciplines, all  avoid ... litigation and negative  missed as an oversight.  Perhaps Notre Dame will recon­ Notre Dame cannot even bring  
Catholic teachers are to be  public relations that will most  sider these excursions into con­ itself to urge the "further and  
faithful to, and all other teach­ likely accrue to local Churches  Incidentally,  apart  from  dom coaching. Nevertheless,  expanded dialogue" which it  
ers are to respect, Catholic doc­ should  the  Ordinances  be  morality, the  use of condoms  the University owes a  public  urged on the bishops. When the  
trine  and  morals  in  their  adopted. Further, internally we  does  not  prevent  AIDS.  apology to the faculty and staff  State speaks, Notre Dame's re­ 
research and teaching. In par­ wish to avoid the alienation of  Planned Parenthood figures  upon whom it imposed those  sponse is one of dumb and ex­ 
ticular, Catholic theologians,  potential faculty and graduate  indicate that condoms fail to  instructions. Whether or not the  cessive obedience, precisely as  
aware that they fulfill a man­ students in the Theological dis­ prevent pregnancy about 15  practice continues, the incident  the "good Germans" responded  
date received from the Church,  ciplines and the alienation of  percent of the time over the  illustrates the tendency of Notre  to the Nazi depersonalization of  
are  to  be  faithful  to  the  potential faculty members in  course of a year. The chances  Dame, in its pursuit of recogni­ the Jews.  
Magisterium of the Church as  other disciplines."  of contracting HIV are greater  tion as a great research univer­ The pathetic contrast between  
the authentic interpreter of  With respect to the Catholic  than the chances of pregnancy  sity, to defer to the standards of  these two responses confirms  
Sacred Scripture and Sacred  Church, therefore, Notre Dame  since a woman can get preg­ the secular educational estab­ the reality that the operative of­ 
Tradition."  insists on "a true autonomy.. .in  nant only several days a month  lishment and of the State.  ficial religion of Notre Dame is  
the face of authority ... external  while HIV can be contracted at  To stand against the State and  political correctness.  
As discussed in this column in  to the academic community it­ any time.  against the orthodoxy of con­ 
the Oct. 4, 1993 issue of The  self."  The  incongruity  of  a  domania would be politically  
Observer,  the  proposed  Now consider the second re­ "Catholic" institution instruct­ very incorrect. And what would  Professor Rice is on  the Law  
Ordinances are  "vague and  cent event. In January, Carol  ing its employees in the expert  they think of us at Princeton or  School faculty.  His column ap­ 
toothless." They exhort cooper- Seager, director of university  use of condoms is obvious. Why  Harvard? Therefore, when the  pears every other Monday.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  


''"V"issing is the ~lo:y of the ~human species. 
--Tom Robbins, (1936-) 



ACC6NT ­
Monday, February 14, 1994 page 11 
•
1ny... 
By TANYA KRYWARUCZENKO 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Among the dozens of roses, mil­lions of pieces of candy and thou­sands of cards being given today, plans for the future are also being made. Love is in the air, and the pealing of wedding bells is in the near future for four Notre Dame/Saint Mary's couples. 
Sorin Hall was the setting for the blossoming romance of one of these couples. Angela Rathweg, a Notre Dame senior majoring in German and sociology, and Marcus Adrian, a fifth-year architecture major, met in Rathweg's freshman year at a dorm party in Sorin Hall, she explained. 
"On our first date, we went to the Sorin Talent Show," she said. 
The couple got engaged during exam week this past semester, with Adrian proposing in a manner straight out of the Old World. 
"He drove to my hometown at 
4:00 a.m., met my father at his office and talked to my mother and asked their permission," she said. 
"Then he came back and asked me." The couple is planning a wedding in the summer Of 1995. 
One of the most memorable moments of their courting years took place while the two were study­ing abroad, agreed Rathweg and Adrian. The couple met up with each other in Venice. 
"We hadn't planned to study abroad at the same time, but it just worked out that way," said Rathweg. 
To celebrate this Valentine's Day, the couple will share a romantic dinner together. 
Fate had a romance in mind when Jennifer Nicola, a Saint Mary's junior elementary education major and Eric Belin, a Notre Dame senior Biology and pre-med major met. 
"He called me my freshman year out of the dogbook at 6:30 on the night of his Dillon Christmas SYR to ask me to it," said Nicola. 
"And I said yes for some strange reason. We've been dating ever since." 
The couple 


Students celebrate 
Valentine's Day with wedding plans 

weeks ago, on Fri. Jan. 28. 
"He told me not to make any plans for that Friday night," she said. "We went to Tippecanoe Place and he gave me 'Phantom of the Opera' tickets for my birthday." 
After the two got back to Saint Mary's they went for a walk, said Nicola. The couple walked behind the Haggar College Center to a bridge connecting Lake Marion to a small island. 
Nicola explained a Saint Mary's legend that whomever a girl walks with over the bridge will be the man she marries. 
"We talked for a while and then he pointed out the statue of Mary on the island and said something like that there was too much snow on the step leading up to the statue," she said. 
"Finally, he convinced me to try and brush the snow off." While she was digging through the snow, Nicola found a rose and a card, in which Belin had written that he needed to ask her something. 
He then asked her to marry him. 
"I was completely in shock and I think I still am," said Nicola. The couple is getting married on June 3, 1995. 
Nicola said that their birthdays are close to Valentine's Day, so they them celebrate together. She said in the past they have had dinner and spent time together on Valentine's Day. 
"This year, I think we've been eel­ebrating Valentine's Day since the engagement," she said. 
For Nicola, one of her most memo­rable moments was her first date with Belin. 
"I will always remember the night we met," said Nicola. "It just seemed r t-he asked me if I believed in fate, and I told him I guess I did." 
For two Notre Dame senior accounting majors, a class offered more than an opportunity to obtain knowledge. It gave them love. 
Greg Pryor and Dana O'Leary met their freshman year in their Introduction to Philosophy class. 
"Our first official date was the beginning of our sophomore year," she said. "We went to see a movie." 
The couple got engaged on Nov. 10, 1993. "He got down on his knee and asked me," she said. The couple is planning a Sept. 1995 wedding. 
One of O'Leary's most memorable moments in their relationship was· when she flew down to Pryor's hometown in Oklahoma City on June 11, 1993 to surprise him for his 21st birthday. 
The couple does not have anything particular planned for this Valentine's Day, but in the past they've gone out to dinner, said O'Leary. 
Not only «;lid the Notre Dame marching band camp help Notre Dame senior Genny Yoder help introduce her to the band, but she also met her future fiancee, Brian Hagerty, ND class of 1992, there. 
"Brian was my section leader and the third person I had met," said Yoder. 
"On our first date, we tried to go to LaFortune for a milk shake, but LaFortune was closed," she said. 
The two were friends until close to the end of her freshman year, when they started officially dating each other. 
Hagerty and Yoder got engaged on Jan. 2 of last year, after Yoder returned from the Notre Dame Band Cotton Bowl trip. 
"We went to the wedding of one of 
his roommates. After that, he asked me to marry him," explained Yoder. 
One of Yoder's most memorable moments in their relationship was when she went to see him last sum­mer at his home near Lake Erie. 
"We went fishing and we started to notice that a storm was coming," she said. Hagerty turned the boat around, but on their way in they saw two boaters whose engine wouldn't work. 
Hagerty and Yoder helped the two men pull their boat in. As they were doing this, "the sky opened up and everyone got drenched," she said. Yoder explained that it was quite a sight. 
Hagerty currently lives in Buffalo, but he comes out to Notre Dame almost every three weeks, said Yoder. "The phone bills are crazy," she said. 
The two do not have any plans for Valentine's Day and have yet to set a date for their wedding. 
Modern Love 
Isn't What It 
Used To Be 
Always a bridesmaid, never a bride . 
At the mere age of twenty­one I already find myself saying this cliche, after recently being in the bridal parties of two of my peers. 
They say we're too young, too naive, too unexperienced to be in love, but what do they know. Everyone told my roommate, "You'll be disap­pointed. You'll be poor. You'll miss out." . 
But the words did nothing more than wiz by my roommates ears, deaf by love. "We have each other, and that's enough for us," she'd always reply, her wide brown eyes sequined with tears of devotion. 
The truth is my roommate and her husband are running into some financial difficulties. And she is living a 'different' lifestyle -instead of studying and going to the 'Backer,' she's cooking dinner and watching'the news. But she's happy and in love and that's all that matters. 
Of course. it doesn't always work that way. Love shafts us all, and each in our own way. The loyal get trampled. The promiscuous get diseases, the unsus­pecting get betrayed, the fragile get broken. The rich get poor. the poor get poorer, the needy get needier. The obssessed sleep on the doorsteps of their beloveds, sobbing all night, or call their message machines over and over just to hear the cherished voice, always hanging up without leaving messages. 
Love makes us do crazy things. Our hearts create a coup on our minds. We stare mindlessly out the win­dow of O'Shag. We giggle at the thought of our loved one while in the computer lab. We stand outside in -12 degrees after parietals, just to be with each other. 
But now we're starting to go a bit overboard folks. 
What we want from love, what we expect from love, what we need from love hasn't really changed. What changes, what makes modern love modern, are the impersonal forms we have been using to express it in, and the public landscape on which we expose our private lives. 
DM capricorn, 45, looking for NSF, 20-35 who loves dogs, Italian food and skinny-dipping. SF, 19, seeks older mature CM. Must have car, job and good looks and be able to party al( night long. 
At this very moment, in every town large enough, every college liberal enough, to print personals, legions of lonely hearts are taking pen in hand to reduce their charm and aspirations to the lowest possible word count. 
They are single, divorced, and married; gay, straight and bi; black, white, Hispanic, and Asain; non-smoking and smoking. They are senstive . They are voluptuous. They look a little like Billy from 'Melrose Place' or Hally Berry. They write their ads, they fax them in and they wait , they hope, they dream. Even the atheists find prayers on their lips. 
If the ads don't pan out, they try other means. They sign up for video-dating services, call 900­number party lines, e-mail suggestive messages, air out their dirty laundry on STUDS. 
Recipient: little.susie@nd. edu 


Sender: little.davey@nd.edu Subject: i 'm lonely Message: meet me for lunch in the Huddle. I think 
you're cute. 

Yet with all this technical assistance, love contin­ues to happen on its own mysterious schedule. Some 
-
enchanted evening -the date which cannot be known or tampered with by you -you will meet your true love. When destiny is good and ready, no sooner, no later. 
He is in the band that plays at the Madison Oyster Bar. She types in your social securtiy number at Debartolo. He seemed lame at first, but now looks kind of sweet. She's wild and crazy-a mismatch to 
· your conservative side -but you love the change o pace. No amount of personals. computers or television game shows can beat good ol' Cupid. 
Kenya Johnson is the Accent Editor of The Observer. In addition to special issue columns as above, she has a column which runs every third Wednesday entitled Little Susie's Bedtime Stories. 

-
ACCENT 
page 12 Monday, February 14, 1994 

Garth Brooks 'Honky Tonks' through the 
JACC 
By KAREN SHOPOFF 
Accent Writer 
The night had finally arrived. The singer who makes men stomp them cowboy boots and women shriek his rocking country vocals in delighted anguish was about to take the stage at the JACC. 
Garth Brooks had come to Notre Dame. The crowd at the JACC was ready to go an hour before the concert was to begin. 
Still, they had to wait a little longer. Martina McBride opened the concert for Brooks with her spunky, energetic music. 
Even though she delayed the much-antic­ipated main event. the audience was very receptive of McBride and her musical charisma. 
"I really enjoyed Martina McBride as the opening act," commented junior Peggy Bailey. 
Now it was just a matter of minutes before the king of country music was to take the stage. 
The Wave rushed around the arena three full times, as chants of "Garth, Garth," grew louder and louder. 
Finally, the lights went out, and Brooks, along with his band, entered from a cap­sule that rose up from underneath the stage. 
Brooks opened the show with Standing Outside the Fire, which quickly brought the crowd to their feet. 
Next up was The River, with elaborate blue swirling lights adding to the emotion. 
Brooks credited George Strait and George Jones as his country music mentors. He also noted gaining direction from James 

EVERYTHING YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT GARTH•••AND MORE 
-
orn: Tulsa, Oklahoma High School: Yukon High Play~d football, haskettiall, baseball and ran track College: OklahOma State University Advertising major 
Played in tiandS and worked as a bouncer 
Graduated 1984 ·· 
amily: Married Sandy Mahl in 1986 Daughter Taylor Mayne Pearl born July 8, 199l; Three brothers, two sisters Musical Influences: George Strait, George Jones, James Taylor, KISS, Queen, Dan Fogelberg, Merle Haggard, Kansas, Journey, Billy Joel Record Producer: Allen Reynoids 

ecord Label: Capitol Records 
!bums: Garth Brooks, No Fences. Ropin' The Wmd, Beyond The Season, The Chase, In Pieces 
ome Videos: Garth Brooks, This is Garth Brooks 
otable Awards: 1 Grammy, 5 American Music Awards, 9 Country Music Association Awards, 10 Academy of Country Music Awards, 4 People's Choice Awards, ll 
'llboard Awards 

Taylor and Billy Joel. 
Performing with his keyboardist, Brooks sang Candle in the Wind,, the hit song by Elton John, who Brooks mentioned as another of his influences. 
Brooks expressed his personable nature as he told a story about a Notre Dame stu­dent he met Saturday afternoon. 
"Jamie asked me to play this song for her, but I also dedicate it to you and to me," Brooks said as he began to play Unanswered Prayers. 
Although Brooks performed Unanswered Prayers without his band, it was not a solo performance. The entire arena acted as his backup singers, screaming each chorus. 
At the end of the song, the overwhelming applause caused Brooks to throw off his guitar and fall to his knees. 
"He seemed like an everyday guy from Oklahoma," commented Bailey. 
Although Brooks used staged set-ups to introduce most of his songs, Thunder Rolling needed no such introduction. 
As smoke once again filled the stage, mechanical thunder clapped and bright white lights simulated lightning. 
The mood created by the lights and sounds added to the emotion of the song, which tells the story of a woman who is abused by her husband. 
Brooks was extremely appreciative of the Saturday night audience. Speaking of the Sunday night audience, Brooks said, "They'd better pack their lunch if they're going to beat tonight." 
The women in the audience cheered loudly to Brooks' gyrations as he crooned 

Shameless. 
The superstar finished the hit with white lights on him from all angles, including lights· shining from the floor. 
In another break, Brooks introduced his lead guitarist Chris Leuzinger, who claimed to know only three chords. 
Because of this, the audience was well aware that I've Got Friends (in Low Places) was to be the next song. 
Once again, Brooks and his band had over 10,000 backup singers. The crowd sang the chorus of I've Got Friends with the musical backup of Brooks' band. 
Brooks closed the show with his favorite song The Dance. Judging by audience reac­tion, it was also the favorite song of many in attendance. 
Before he left the stage, Brooks gathered the many flowers and gifts that his fans gave him. 
With his arms full, Brooks thanked the audience for the warm and enthusiastic response. and left the stage. 
The applause of the audience caused Brooks and his band to reappear for an encore. 
With intensity, Brooks sang Ain't Coin· Down (Til the Sun Comes Up). He ran around the stage before jumping onto a rope ladder hanging from the lights, singing all the while. 
Those in attendance at Brooks' shows were definitely not disappointed. 
The intensity of the show was maintained for almost an hour and a half, with the energy of the performer matched only by the energy of his .audience. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Top: Brooks sings his heart out to a well-receiving crowd. Bottom: Brooks closes out with his favorite, "The Dance." 
Brooks arrives to warm welcome By KAREN SHOPOFF Accent Writer  
After much anticipation, the entertainer of the year made it to Notre Dame. On Saturday night, 'the JACC was trans­formed from basketball arena to big-time country music show set. Garth Brooks had finally come to town. Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students waited in line for tickets last December. However, few were actually able to attend either of Brooks' sold out shows this past week­end at the JACC. Junior Peggy Bailey was lucky enough to get a ticket Uyst before the concert. "I just found out one of my friends had an extra ticket," she said. "It should be awesome, because everything that Garth does is awesome," said Bailey before the concert began. Chad Gardner got two tickets from a more interesting source, complements of Garth Brooks himself. Gardner, a junior studying electrical engineering, was in the JACC on Saturday after­noon watching the erew set up the lights and stage. "Garth walked up to me, shook my hand, showed me around his dressing room and gave me two of the best tickets in the house," Gardner said. Gardner's friend Paul Singh did not believe that he was go­ing to go the concert courtesy of the big guy himself. "I thought he was playing a prank on me," Singh said of Gardner's luck, "It should be a good concert; I hear he's a great performer," Singh said in anticipation. Singh and Gardner agreed on one thing: "Garth has a firm handshake, nice table man­ners, and God did a good thing when He put him on earth."  


Monday, February 14, 1994 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 13 
-


Classifieds 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard '233-2342/10-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
CANCUN 4 best Spr Brk ever! Fly from Chi. or Indy. Seats going fast! x232-71 09 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
ILOST&FOUNDI 
LOST A FEW MONTHS AGO POSSIBLY IN DEBARTOLO: ALL BLACK NYLON JACKET IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4298 
Blue sweatshirt with gold Irish let­
tering lost either outside or in the 
basement of LaFortune. Call 
X1882 
WANTED 
****SPRING BREAK '94**** Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest Prica Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. 
Need one extra JPW ticket for all events DESPERATELYll!lllll Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­MENT-fisheries. Many earn $2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­$6()00+/mo. on fishing vessels. Many employers provide benefits. No exp. necassaryl For mora info call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584 
Violets are blue 
Roses are hot 
II you want a fun time 
Call us at Knott 
Wanted 3 willing men to attend the 
Knott SYR Feb 26th 
If interested call x0722 
Anyone going to NJ for break? I need a ride. Will help with gas, tolls, whatever. Call Elaine 2342. 
GREEKS & CLUBS EARN $50­
$250 FOR YOURSELF plus up to 
$500 for your club! This lundraiser 
costs nothing and lasts one week. 
Call now and recaive a free gilt. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 
Help! 4 desperate girls need ride to 
Long Island or NYC for Spring 
Break. Will pay gas, tolls, etc. 
Callx4881 
Brunos needs waitresses. Must be 
21 and able to work weekends. 
Please call288-3320 for interview. 
SUMMER JOBS/INTERNSHIPS ­Average earnings $3,500.00. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus tele­phone directories, hires over 250 college students for their summer sales program. Top earnings $5,000.00 -$6,500.00. Gain valu­able experienca in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other uni­versity markets. Expense paid train­ing program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal ori­ented students for challenging, well­paying summer job. Internships may be available. INTERVIEWS ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25TH AT THE CAREER PLANNING AND PLACEMENT,HESBURGH LIBRARY. 
NEEDED: 
SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 
NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, 
Poughkeepsie pre!. Will help$. 
Please call Brian or Jason x1130 SHOE SENSATION Coming to the Concord Mall. Growing retail shoe company seeks enthusiastic, inde­pendent individuals to work full or part time in retail shoe store. Previous experience a plus. Flexible hours. Excallent benefits package and generous discounts available. Potential of $5 to $6 with sales bonus. Please send resume to: Action Enterprises Inc., 253 America Place, Jeffersonville IN 47130 
Ambitious students -Build your own business -Earn a good profit on an attractive new product. Call (800)736-1621 
FOR RENT 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595 
PARTY TIME '94-95 Big 6 bedrm. Sale area. Free maid sevica. Beach V-ball & B.B. courts. Furnished. Washer & dryer. 273-0482 or 234-3831. 
FOR SALE 
Sale Ford Escort '85, manual, 
$500 or best offer. 273 4028. 
TICKETS 
1-W,INDY/ORL/NAPLES, $175 2196547222/2196548392 
StuTix lor sale 
DePaui,UNC,Lville Take any offer 
Mike4-4367 
PERSONAL 
SPRING BREAK! 
Student Holidays, the nation's 
leader in Spring Break vacations 
offering the ultimate trip to 
CANCUN, MEXICO! 
The lt1 Student Spring Break 
Destination from $399 
Package includes hotel, flight 
and parties! Organize a small 
group and travel for FREEl 
CALL RICHI1-800-360-TRIP 
valentines day special 
university hairstylist $2.00 off any 
service monday feb. 14th 
9am-9pm 631-5144 
Do you like to talk on the phone? 
Come to the 
Women's Care Center 
Phone-A-Thon 
Feb.7,8,9,14,15,& 16 
6:30-8:30pm 
2nd floor-Admin. Bldg. 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­786-8373 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in 
Washington, D.C. area wish to 
adopt infant brother or sister. Close 
extended family in area. Let's help 
each other. Medllegal paid. Please 
call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 
Need ride from Washington DC 
back to NO Monday alter Easter. 
Will pay. Colleen x4704 
In a hurry..~ 
don't worry. 
FAX IT! 
at 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
NEW LOWER PRICES! 
Hey, NDE #301 
Anyone having 
*CRANBERRIES* 
for lunch?? 
Mikey "TOAD" S. -Good luck on 
your science project -YOU CAN 
DO ITI Love, your "big sis' 
TOP 10 REASONS TO PARTY WITH 4T and SUSAH: 
10) Whynot? 
9) WE HAVE THE BARITONE SECTION'S VIKING HORNSIII 
8) Because we LIKE when drunk jerks pourbeeroverourhead 
7) WE NEVER THROW-UP! 
6) If you don't party with us, you'll make our "bad-hookup" list 
5) Some of us can dipl 
4) Because we can drink more than you 
4) We never break parietalsl 
3) YOU CAN TRY-BUT YOU CAN'T CUT US OFFI 
2) Because we don't party with L.F. 
1) WE NEVER GET BUSTEDIIIII 
I love you, 4T + Susahl Thanks for all the laughs! Love always, CB 
safe trip, jess 
SENIORS! Interested in service next year? Check out Holy Cross Associates. For information-Jeff Hammes, HCA Offica 1-5521; Mary Ann Roemer, Center for Social Conems 1-7949. 
Rise and shine and give God your glory' glory 
Rise and shine and give God your glory, glory 
Rise and shine and give God (clap)your glory, glory 
Children of the Lord.... 
To the most humble small group on the Notre Dame Encounter lt30 
I love each of you dearly-you are such special people.... 
Love, Anne 
Unda­1Love You, but I'm too shy to talk to you. Will you marry me?? You Know Who 
VALENTINES 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TAYLORIII I'm so glad !hall can be WITH you this year for Valentine'sll We are lucky to be two dorms apart and not half way around the wortd....Love you, 
Jamie 
HEY GIRL, Happy Valentine's Day Marc 
SNOOKUMS, JUST BECAUSE YOU'RE 
YOU, AND THArS ENOUGH FOR ME. 
MY LILLY WHITE 
Happy Valentine's Day Vic, Barb, Mo, Gretcha, Kathy, Janet, Kristen, Beckyllll 
I Luv You Guysll Min 
MUD-I want you I Will you be my valentine? Love, Spike 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY to Jill, Nina, Susan, Emily, Molly & Shannon -our angel and adopted angels-KNOTII Love from Mom & Dad Grauel 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, LOVECHILD Now there's an ANGELl 
Happy Valentine's Day STEPH II! I Love youl -Jim 
Celie lettre est pour ma petite peche ... lor a special Valentine's treat viens a L'Hotel Paul pour un soir tu n'oublieras pas...j'apporterai le creme whipped et tu apporteras les cherries...depeche-toill avec l'amour-Paul 
hey dark, 
HappyV-day Tigger, 
Happy Valentine's Dayl love you...you're the best thing that ever happened to me. I'm so glad we'll be together forever! 
Love, Your L.S. 
JEN, I LoveYoulll DAN 
P.S. OCDAI 
MEOW... 

Chris Knych, You couldn't be sweeter, You couldn't be dearer, You couldn't be nicer... But you sure could be nearer! We love you -Katie, Eddie, and Sarah 
ChrisKnych, Roses are red, Weare blue, Everyone in Indy Sure misses youl Happy Valentine's Day Love, Mom, Dad, Carol, Kathy, Greg, and Bob 

PAT BRENNAN-Happy Valentine's Day, Adorable! It has been an incredible almost13 months...keep it rollin'. I love you. -Debra 
Hey Leah-Thanks for taking me in, snuggling me, huggling me, and loving me. I love you very muchl Rudy 
JenniferR, Hi beautiful! Be my valentine. Friendship, loyalty, and love forev­er. 
Love always, your frogman, Christian 
Happy Valentine's Day Susanne -Love Always, Rocco 
I love my Donny, Ohyesl do I love my Donny, And I'll be true When I'm not 

throwing things at you, standing on your right, searching lor goongos, or twisting your nose 360 degrees, 
Oh I am blue My Donny, I love you. Prem, Hathi bai 

A VALENTINE'S DAY REMINDER 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE, I KNOW SOMEONE WHO WAS RAPED, 
I'LL BET YOU DO TOOl 
RAPE ISN'T FUNNY, IT CAN HAPPEN TO YOUI 
ZZZUPP MOLLY, 
HOPE YOU HAVE A GREAT VALENTINE'S DAY. WILL BE THINKING OF YOU. 
143 
J­

Fact&fiction'sMostlnterestingPairs Dante&Beatrice Edgar&Leonore Morticia&Gomez BECCA&JOE -R 
BILL'S A BABEl!II I'm so glad you're my valentine, but I don't have enough money to make a rhyme, so HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY and thars all I wanted to say! Love, Kristy 
Dear Liz, 

I don't know about you, but these pretzels are making me thirsty! So, to quench my thirst, could you get me a drink from something "like a faucat, baby?' 
Happy Valentine's Dayl Love, Monkey 
TO: DANE, MELVIN, TODD, BRIAN, RICH, WALTER, TONY, CARLOS, MARLON, MARCUS, BROD, DERRICK, CLIFFORD, TRAVIS, JEREMY, OWEN, ADMORE, IRA, DARNELL, KEITH, THOMAS, ANTOINE, TOM, KEVIN, FRANK, ALBERT, JAMES, MICHEAL, AND ALL THE OTHER BEAUTIFUL BLACK NO MEN: 
SOCIETY WILL TRY TO HOLD YOU DOWN, CLIP YOUR WINGS MEANT TO SOAR. YOU, THE KINGS AND PRINCES OF MIL­LIONS! BUT KNOW THAT ALL THINGS ARE POSSIBLE, AND LET NO ONE HOLD YOU BACK. HAPPY VALENTINES DAYI 
*ALIKA & SONYA* 
EKL, Thanks for a great two years. Youre the best. Luv, JKS 
PLAID­A friend will walk life's miles with you and nourish values sound and true. Though paths may sometimes drill apart, true friendship never leaves the heart. 
-the Beezer 
AmyK., 
I know Snyder? from NDA wouldn't approve, but I ran into a little (future) money -Happy Valentine's Dayl 
Love, 
Dave 
Erica, 
Happy 3rd Valentine's Dayll 
This year will be the most special 
yetll Love, Pat 
i carry your heart with me(i carry it In my heart)l am never without it (anywhere I go you go,my dear;and whatever is done by only me Is your doing,my darting) i fear no fate(for you are my fate,my sweet)i want no world(lor beautiful you are my world,my true)and ifs you are whatever a moon has always meant and whatever a sun will always sing is you here is the deepest secret nobody knows(here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud and the sky of the sky of a tree called IHe;which grows higher than soul can hope or mind can hide)and this is the won­der lhafs keeping the stars apart 
i carry your heart(i carry it in my heart) Love, Kevin 
Sunshine and sugar, I love youl Thanks lor always being there for mel Happy Valentine's Dayl Love, 
Z-Fella 
1F-you may not be here but you're always in my heart. I promise to be a good girt arid I love you forever. Happy Valentine's Day, blue eyes 
SGK (MTB)-2 years ago today, I 
got lucky and theories were shat­
tered. I now know Cupid's arrows 
have captured You In my heart 
4ever. Please be my Valentine. I 
love youl -Aaron 
KEVIN, What do my classifieds, IRISH95, DOMER, Minnesota, car singing, funky aerobic videos, the RUDY premiere, personalized cards, and a love of cows have in common? 
They are cheesy like us! Happy 
Valentine's Day -Love, Kelly 
Jill, 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
I Love Youll 
Joe 
Dear Chris, 
Our time together has been 
wonderful, but the best is yet 
to camel I love you, Monkey! 
Happy Valer1tine's Day. 
Love, Uz 

Kathy­"ln a universe of ambiguity, this kind of cartainty comes only once• 
-I love you 

VERA 
Roses are red Smurls are blue I really like McDonald's 
lt2 Value Meal But not nearly as much as I love youl 
Happy 13thI Love you, 
NORM 
Jill, Here's to our theme song and find­ing two guys to prove it wrong. 
Pall Happy Valentine's Day (number 31) Thank you lor an incredible two­and-a-hall years. You're the best! I love you just the way you are, now and forever. all my love, Erica 
hurt8997 Sam, 1am...notl Be careful what you ask lor...lt might show up when you least expect it. 
Joe­l have the key to your dressing 
room, but 

You hold the key to my heart! Happy Valentine's Dayl Love-Jill 
Mona Usa, When I think of you, I still forget my name. My heart aches that you are so faraway. -Your Hot & Tender Man 
Reagen, I Love You... 23 Different Ways 
KerryS. Me like youl Me hit you on head Brlng back to cave. Make ugh, ugh. 
Thag 

HONEY BUNNY BEAR, How about some chilitos tonight? Or maybe we could study-your desk or mine? LOVE. YOUR LOVE KITTEN 
LOVE YOU BOOMER II Happy Valentine's Day 
Rana, YOU are the MOST immensely BEAUTIFUL woman on the laca of the EARTH! Even though I am just POND SCUM in comparison to you, please be MY VALENTINE now and forever! 
Ri Rove Ru, Your BabyBrat 

Babycakes, Happy Valentine's Dayl Thank you so much for every­
thing! I love you more than any­
thing! Violets are blue, Roses are red, South Bend's warm With you in my bed 
All my heart and love forever, Fruitcake 
Happy Valentine's Day, Andy 
Honey, 
The law is clear-if I do not con­sent and am forced to have sexual intercourse, it is rape; If I am unable to consent, it is rape. I will live with your memory forever. 
Grisham You Suck! If you weren1 tainted by news it never would have happened. Hapy Valentines Day The Big 0 Sports Stall 
·---( 
Scottie finally sheds Michael's shadow 
continued from page 20 
Zurcher was playing the match of his life that the murmur of a upset floated among the fans at the Eck. 
The upset, however, was not that of a team but of a player, Chad Clark, currently No. 2 soon to be No.1 in the nation when the next poll comes out. 
A seemingly red-hot Clark ran into an intense, focused, Andy Zurcher. 
The result? 
Zurcher pulled off the upset of the year by beating Clark 6­2, 3-6, 6-1. 
"The plan," commented Zurcher, "was to consistently pressure Chad by chipping my backhand low and seize the net whenever possible. The match was pretty even throughout. Both of us had our opportuni­ties. I guess the turning point was when I broke him at 2-1 in the third set." 
It takes more than a plan to win, however, for victory re­quires execution. 
Notre Dame fell a few scarce points away from following the lead oftheir captain, and a moment's breath from beating a frontrunner for the NCAA championship. 
"It is unfortunate that we were one tie-breaker away," stated Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss. 
"It's tough to play as hard as we did and not come away with the win. You don't get too many chances to knock off a top-four team. I am proud, however, of the way our play­ers played. With a little luck we could have won." 
The season continues when Notre Dame faces MSU at 6:00 Tuesday night in the Eck Paval­lion. Maybe this time lady luck will show. 
·his veterans when things got tight, especially Pippen, Mark Price and Patrick Ewing ­combined. for 69 points. . . like the attitude of the ·Wilkens said.>'.'rhey ase, but they're true mll~&tttorls·; When the game is want to Win. ntmf'lilLMJlrrlc· and Patrick were forces'~d.own the·· 
game. 
"There are certain things in the NBA that all teams do, and we tried to get sets going where they knew how to play with one another... Wilkens said. 
A basket by Clifford Robinson and a 3•p()inter by John Stock­ton ma~eit 117"1i5before Pippen, lifter ·missing two free . connected {)n his 

SOMMER JOBS IN CINCINNATI 
Property Management firm in Cincinnati is looking for individuals to work as landscapers. Work full time maintaining grounds at apartment communi­ties throughout Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky. Send a letter of interest to: Mark Ahern, 255 East Fifth St., Suite 2300, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. A pre-employment drug test will be required. 
Cor~ 
~S 011 the Avenue Floral & Pru!TJ Shot~"' 
2226 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46615 
(219) 287,2955 
--'f--T·"' ,. • ., , ,.. , __ 
HOSES startin~ at $!7.50 C/C CAHNATIONS starting at $12.95 C/C 
FR.ESHCtJr 
ARRANGEMENTS $17.50& Up BAllOON BOKAYS 
$9.99 & Up C/C 
MmmiDI1 for IJ.Iiwry: $17.50 (pl..> ddiv<ry whac <JU11ic>) 
Open tonight 'til MIDNIGHT...Orders 'tillO pm! 

Irish ROTC dominates basketball tournament 
Special to the Observer 
Battling through tough com­petition unscathed, the Notre Dame ROTC basketball teams won both the men's and wom­en's titles in the eighth annual Flying Irish Invitational this weekend. 
Navy Notre Dame men com­piled an 8-0 record in the three-day event to claim their second title in the last three years. 
The midshipmen defeated Louisville Air Force 52-37 to complete a title run that fea­tured a payback victory over last year's champion Purdue Navy. 
John Neal's lightning quick defense and hot shooting keyed the victory with strong long­range support from Ben O'Rourke. 
A joint Air Force-Navy squad hung tough in a series of tight contests to claim the women's title. Spearheading the host team's effort was player-coach Shari Shepard. She got support 
Peter, 
from freshmen Shannon Crombie, Amber Simonic and Jen Laurie. 
A one-point semifinal defeat of defending champion South Dakota State Air Force and a come-from-behind 36-30 tri­umph over Kentucky Army-Air Force capped a perfect 6-0 weekend. 
The two victories continue the Irish dominance of the event. Nine of eleven champions have been from Notre Dame. To complete an Irish weekend sweep, Navy men's coach Lt. Roger "Chip" Hilarides claimed his third straight cadre hotshot title. 
The Flying Irish Invitational, hosted by Air Force ROTC's Detachment 225, is the nation's largest ROTC sporting event. Forty-three teams from across the midwest made the trip to South Bend, squeezing in 109 games in 44 hours. 
"This year was the most com­petitive ever, with high-calibre play all around," said advisor Captain Alan Andrysiak. 

You are my~, my only~, You make me \!Y when skies are grey. You'll never know dear, how much I 0 you, Please don't take my~ away. 
jillian 
Hotel Rooms still available 
for the 1994 
Junior Parents Weekend! 
(219)234-2000 
SOUTH BEND~rriOff. 
123 North St. Joseph Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601 


STUDENT MANAGER DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 25 BARTENDER DEADLINE: MARCH r8 
......... -.. . --­
Monday, February 14, 1994 
Different meets, different stories for Irish track teams 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
Healthy runners and injuries were the story for the men's and women's track and field teams this weekend. 
The women had injuries, while the men had their health, as the squads ventured into the state of Michigan for two differ­ent meets and came out with two different results. 
The undermanned women's team placed fourth in a quad­rangle meet with Big Ten pow­ers Michigan, Penn State and Michigan State in East Lansing, while the men's team finished third in the 25 team Central Collegiate Conference meet. 
"We struggled a little bit," commented coach Joe Piane concerning the women's result. "The 14 girls that made the trip all showed tremendous heart and they competed very well." 
The three other Big Ten schools entered over 30 ath­letes in the meet. Injuries and illness have depleted a power­ful Notre Dame team. 
~---------------­
BRUNO'S PIZZA Early Week Special: 2 Small Pizzas $10 
(unlimited toppings) 
Good Now Thru Thursday BEST PIZZA DEAL IN TOWN! 
CALL NOW! 
"It really hurt our team goals because the other teams had so many people," explained junior Lisa Junek. "We'll do better in larger meets because our team will get healthy." 
The Irish did have their share of standouts as Junek finished first in the 55m hurdles with a time of 8.05, and sophomore Erica Peterson placed second in 1600m. Freshmen Carolyn Long and Heidi Altman also shined for the Irish in the BOOm and 400m races respectively. 
"It wasn't what I wanted, but I was happy," commented Junek, who won the Meyo Invi­tational in 7.96 seconds. "Our team did fine considering the circumstances." 
On the men's side, the Irish scored in every event except three, but still finished behind a powerful Michigan and Eastern Michigan team. 
"We performed pretty well," said Piane. "It was a good, solid team effort and we had good people across the board." 
Senior high jumper Todd Herman and sophomore leaper page 15 
-
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Todd Herman placed second in the high jump Saturday at the Central Collegiate Conference Meet. 
Tom Mescallled the way for the balanced Irish team. 
Herman placed second in the high jump with a mark of 7'1. Mescall competed in the triple jump and high jump and had his best performance of the year according to Piane. 
"Tom is doing very well right now in all his events, including the long, high and triple jumps," said Piane. 
"The competition was the best we faced all year," said Mescall. "Our team did really well and we'll be ready for IC4A's." 
manager and bartender 

"We had a lot of people do very well," echoed Herman. "We knew we had a shot to win if everyone ran personal bests, but we had good perfor­mances." 
Other stars for the Irish in­cluded freshman football stand­out Randy Kinder (55m, 200m); senior Mike McWilliams (5,000m); and junior Jeff Hoj­nacki (800m). 
The distance medley relay consisting of Joe Royer, Andrew Burns, Kevin O'Brien and Dan Amitie placed third in the meet. Junior J.R. Meloro finished sixth in the 5,000m, and Notre Dame's John Coyle, James Trautman and Nate Ruder had the fourth, fifth and seventh places in the 3,000m. 
"We did okay, but we didn't perform up to what we're capa­ble," concluded Meskall. "We're going to surprise a lot of people later in the season in the important meets." 
Both teams are looking for­ward to performing in front of the Junior Parents Weekend crowd at Loftus on Saturday against Drake University. 
""' 

Campus Interviews February 16,1994 · 
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount Broker5M is looking for motivated people to establish a career in the brokerage business. 
OLDE offers: 12-18 month paid training program Potential six-figure income Excellent benefits 
If you possess excellent communication skills, general rr,arket knowledge and the desire to excel, sign up for an on-campus interview on February 16, 1994 in the Caieer Center. 
If you are unable to arrange an interview call: 
or send resume to: OLDE Discount Stockbrokers Natinn<li Recruiting 7'i1 Cnswoid Street Detroit. Ml 4822f: 
AOLDE 
DISCOUNT STOCKBROKERS 
~ ll'mbcr 1\YSE and SIPC 

1\n Equal Opp<H'tunitv Emplon'r 

-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
TAlE THE lEYS CAll ACAB. TAlE ASTAID.. 

fRifNOS DON'T lH fRifNOS DRIVf DRUNK 
lea Ventura: Pet Detective(PG13):12:30, 2:45, 5:15, 7:30,9:30 Blink Check(PG): 12:15, 2:31!, 4:45, 7:00, 9:15 
Blink(R): 1:45,4:30, 7:30, 10:00 Grumpy Old Men(PG13): 1:15,4:15,6:45, 9:00 
My Father The Hero(PG): 12:45, 3:00, 5:00, 7:15, 9:45 Pllilldelpbia(PG13): 1:31!, 4:45, 7:15, 10:00 
Iron WiU(PGl:
4:31!, 7:00, 9:j(J Mrs. DoublllrefPG13):4:15J15, 10:00 Mytiirt U(PGJ:2:45, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 



The Observer • SPORTS 
Dame 34 (M. Williams 7, Joe Ross 7). Assists: Hofstra 10 (Shaffer 5), Notre Dame 14 (Hoover 4). Turnovers: Hofstra 18 (English 4), Notre Dame 22 
(J. Williams 4). Tickets sold: 8,726. 
Francesco s All Valentines 
Day! 

~~~~~~~.A~ -256-1444 
SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prepared by Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste ofItaly Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Hours 
1213 Lincoln Way West

Mon-Thu Fri & Sat Mishawaka Sun (Francesco was chefat ND for 30 
Jhe Observer/Kyle Kusek 

The 1994 Xavier summer sessions bulletin of classes & workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of arts and sciences, business, education, professional studies and social sciences. Session dates: May 16 -June 23 &July 5-August 11 
CALL OR WRITE: 
~VIEK 
I 
summer sessions UNIVERSITY 
3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207-3120 513/745-4381 
Xav~r Ulli~~ersily is a11 academic conuru~~~ily committed to eqWJJ opport!Utily for all perso/IS regardless ofage, so:, race, religion, Nvtdicap, or 110./imul origin. 
~ 
r----------~-----~-­
Monday, February 14, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS 

An 'N. for effort, but no 'W' 
ByTIMSHERMAN Sports Writer 
The effort was dramatically improved. 
The result was not. 
The Notre Dame hockey team, despite the fact that the game was nationally televised, came out flat on Friday night against Western Michigan. 
In the CCHA, you cannot do that, especially against a team that is fighting for second place. The result was a 6-0 blanking. 
On Saturday, the Irish stepped up their intensity, yet still lost 4-1. 
Friday, though, set the tone for the weekend. A disputed goal deflated the Irish. 
With the score 1-0 late in the first period, Irish goaltender Greg Louder was run off the crease. Western Michigan's Misha Lapin took advantage of the blatant interference and found the empty net. 
The goal stood and the Irish were never the same. 
The Broncos took advantage of the edge and scored three second period goals. including a shorthanded effort by Brian Gallentine. 
Notre Dame was too sloppy on offense to challenge, and the game ended 6-0. 
On Saturday. the energy level seemed higher. as was the play somewhat. Notre Dame out­shot Western Michigan 26-21. 
"Tonight, the team worked hard," said coach Ric Schafer. "We were down to the end of our roster. but our hard work was a positive." 
"It was a big improvement over Friday, we just didn't get the breaks" commented the lone goal scorer on the week­end, Ben Nelsen. 
With injuries to key forwards such as Brent Lamppa. Jamie Morshead, and Jeff Hasselman, the Irish have trouble generat­ing quality scoring chances. 
Finding themselves down 2-0 after the first period, it looked like the squad would be shut out for the second straight evening. However, Nelsen's power play goal at 19:19 of the second period, gave the Irish some life. 
They could not carry the momentum into the final pe­riod. Western's Darren Mal­oney scored the backbreaking goal midway through the third. Jamal Mayers added another with three minutes left to ac­count for the 4-1 final. 
"We had it close for a while, but it just didn't fall our way," said Nelsen. 
"We just can't afford to make losing worse," said Schafer. "We'll get one (win) when we get one. We'll keep working hard for it." 

vvaiter/vvaitress 
plate up help 
Saturday 2/19 Sunday 2/20 
$5.50perhour 
Apply: Catering, South Dining Hall 

-

The ObseJVer/T.J. Harris Freshman Sean McAlister (left) battles a Western Michigan player for the puck during Saturday's 4-1 Irish loss. 
David Palmer is 
. .
pr1me-nme at the combine 
By STEVE HERMAN Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

David Palmer, Alabama's all­purpose threat, wants to nar­row his range of responsibili­ties in the NFL. 
In other words, don't expect him to line up behind center. 
"No, I'll leave that up to the quarterbacks," said the 5-foot­9 receiver, one of 29 juniors eligible for the April 24-25 draft. 
"I just want to catch it and run some reverses. Going into the draft, returning punts and kicks will be my biggest assets, and I think it will help me make it in the league if I can run reverses and catch passes too," said Palmer, among more than 300 of the nation's top players attending the annual NFL scouting combine at the Hoosier Dome. 
THIS FRIDAY, FEB.18, 8P.M., O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
COLUMBIA ARTISTS PRESENTS 
Hungarian State Folk Ensembk 
COMPANY OF 70 DANCERS • CHORUS • ORCHESTRA 
Transportation prtMded by .,...,.,Hunganan A1rllnesA 
ONE SHOW ONLY. SM'S-ND COMMUNITY $8; SlUDENTS $6 
1ltf SAIIIT IMlY'S ClllHif IIPAlT!IIMT II CIMUMifAIDI, IWUl &lliATlf PUSOOS 
QUil:I'ERS ArwMV!11HH 
BY 1!AR1!ARA llAMASIR. &mtY MPNIMM IXRKIHI BY kATIE SIIUVAH 
lHIRSDAY-SINDAY, liB. 2-i-27 
~>-MD (IMJHIJY S4, SAIMT MARY'S SlUOfMl) SJ 
YlARS~

Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box JliiSO
(;' 

Office, located in a Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 
p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and -~ Discover orders by phone at / ­
219/284-4626. ~ 
JZ\,olll...l>\\\1"!4( 

, '. 
r--~----------~----~----~~~~ 
Women's hoops enjoying the view from the top 
Irish rout Evansville to keep a tight grip on the MCC lead 
By DYLAN BARMMER team the Irish had crushed 93-48 on the first half was aided by a 57.5 per­Spons Writer January 20? cent shooting effort from the floor, They had, and it was, but it and put to rest memories of consecu­There's no doubt about it; it's great wouldn't be consistent with the char­tive poor first halves in the two games 
to be on top. acter of this team to take a day off. It prior to this one. 
The Notre Dame women's basket­wouldn't be like freshman guard Beth After shooting remarkably well in ball team knows the feeling. Just ask Morgan to score under 20 points, and the first half, the Irish slowed their them, and they could tell you all about it wouldn't be like the rest of the team pace in the second, hitting at just 37 
to not give a solid effort throughout. percent, to finish at 49 percent for the it. 
They could tell you what it feels like While Morgan, who this time game. to be 11 games above .500 with five scored 21 points to up her average to Evansville, who was led by Amy regular season games remaining. 19.5 a game, is the main scoring Lefever's 17 points, just couldn't get 
They could describe to you the threat on this talented team, she is by anything started in the game, and .. exhilaration of a last second, come no means the entire team. The Irish with their loss, remained winless in from behind win on the road. are the perfect definition of a team; MCC play. The Irish, with seven wins They could tell you just how it feels close-knit, unselfish, gutty, and, most in the MCC, are three games ahead of to win eight of your last ten games, of all, winners. their nearest MCC rivals, but still have 
including five straight victories. Last Thursday. it was junior for­four conference games to play. 
The Irish women could tell you all ward Letitia Bowen who stepped to In addition to Morgan and Orlosky, this and more, but they'd rather just the forefront, leading the team's sec­point guard Kara Leary played well, go ahead with business. ond half comeback with a team-high chipping in 11 points and three 
The Irish did exactly that on 23 points and 13 rebounds. On rebounds while dishing out a team­Saturday afternoon, with an 89-62 Saturday, it was senior guard Sherri high six assists. win over Evansville to improve to 7-1 Orlosky's turn to shine. Freshmen Rosanne Bohman and 
The sharp shooting Orlosky drained Katryna Gaither got quality playing 
in the MCC. It would have been easy for the six of eight field goals, including all time in the lopsided victory, and also 
Irish to go into Saturday's game flat. four of her three point attempts, to performed well. Bohman contributed 
Surely the 15-5 Irish could sleep­finish second to Morgan with 19 eight points and two rebounds, while walk to a victory over a 2-18 points. Orlosky also grabbed a team­Gaither dropped in 10 points and high eight rebounds. added five rebounds and two blocked
Evansville team. 

After all, hadn't they just come off The Irish came out anything but shots. an incredibly emotional 82-80 win spent and listless, as they exploded The n,ext game for the Irish will be over a scrappy Butler team less than for a season-high 56 first half points, on Thursday, February 17, as the 48 hours before? while holding Evansville to just 29 team takes on MCC rival LaSalle in 
Wasn't this the same Evansville points in the first stanza. Notre their first and only home game of the Dame's high scoring performance in month. 


The Department of Music Presents5ftfjltf %t0?Zttize.1 §Cff Univ~:~!t!ot~~!':';;{anist ~­-ina 1to Dominick, . ~~.. ~·­~~-l 13acft Organ :Jestiva{ rrftree Concert Seriesmy nap buddy, bestfriend, WVe&nes&ay, feb. 9 and first love. Tuesday, Feb. 15 §un&ay, feb. 20 You are definitely the King! all concerts are at 8:00p.m. Sacred Heart BasilicaLove~ Mags ublic  
GRADUATE STUDENT LENTEN RE1'REAT Friday, February 18-Saturday, February 19 8:00p.m. (24 hours) 8:00 p.tn. A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students and will focus on the Sunday Gospels of Lent. Place: Crowe House, on the shore of Lake Michigan, 30 miles northwest of Notre Dame. Planning: All graduate students interested in this retreat are invited and urged to attend a 30 minute meeting Tuesday, February 15, at 7:00p.m., in the Fischer Graduate Community Center. Deadline: Reservations for the twelve available places will be accepted until Tuesday, February 15. Contact I;r. John Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-8606 or Sharon HatWell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. Cost $15.00 for the cost of meals and snacks. (?MPU) MNISTRY  

'
• 

Monday, February 14, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER 
"So l:>o Ljou lfl•Nk ~E.'i.L.L -Be. Asuo. To (, T..E. l.j;A1:> To C11mPu'S."> 
I 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Lift up 61 Olympia 29 Woodworker's 
Dukakis film 
1 Gore's "-in 
choice 63 Fast time 
the Balance" 80newho's 
32 Belgian airline 64 Capri, for one "agin" it 
34 Bests 65 Misrepresent 10 Train unit 38 Hemingway 
66 Pupil's place 13 "-Without opus 67 African lake Windows" ('64 41 Dub again 68 Volvo worker song) 
42 Took ten 
14 Supermarket 
43 Ingenious 
DOWN
meat label 
45 Shows remorse
15 Territory 
1 Bridge seat 
46Up
18 Major Bowes 
2 Comic Johnson 
updated? so Marinaro and 
31mitation
others
18 Fat 
morocco
19 Home on the 52 Slough 
4 Civil wrong 
range 53 Reckon 
5 --Pinafore
20 Kind of signal 56 Bosom 
6 Cottonwoods 
21 Part of SEATO companions 
7Grammy­
22Mail HQ 60 "Remember the 
winning pianist 
23 Breakfast order neediest," e.g. 
a Yacht heading 9 Person of will 1o 1929 event ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 High nest 
character 
-=+:::::-t=+=-1 15 "Too bad!" 
-:::-r.~-Ei 17 Paraspsy­
chology study 22 Authentic 24 Singing sisters 25 D.C. zone 26 Comic Bert 
-=-:+.:::+::;+=-+=-! 27 Have -in one's bonnet 
'\tw~lll 2a Probe 
.;: 30 Flat sign? ~~~ 31 Vienna is its cap. -:+.~+.:-! 33 In opposition to one another 
Applications for all Executive Positions are available in the Student Union Board office and in the Student Government office 
Applications are due by TOMORROW, FEB. 15 in the Student Government office, 2nd floor of LaFortune 
L•BE~P.LISI>) RuN Arnuc:.K .. ~e'i'" GwE T .\)tcr<'T A..: No ritE. l>AME.. !He 'STONE"EN6E A SA"\ IT. 
Wllot.E Ne.w Stle.'SA•D h ...
Gfi.ATEI"UL l>e.A1:> 1<1&1\T 

All readings will be held at 7:30 in the Library Auditorium, with a reception in the Library Lounge immediately following 
JAY HOSLER 


IR'\ \Cl FIND 01-\E
M/l-~9E I C/l-1\1 \'It-Ill 
A Rf>-D\Of\CT\I.Jt: 
TI1~1 M.\JTI\\E.'S 'iO\J 
\\-ITO SOMEOI-IE Wll\1
METEORIIE T\1A1 
A 'NORK ETI{IC.
MllfATtS ME \1'{10 
,._ LI\J I~G UQ\l\D. 
DAVE KELLETI 
J'Y\E.ANINU T T'... ToTALL'1 
13£-r... \NNOC.Et<T EvE~" To (JJAAT'SIIE. WA-:; 
~ij~~lm~Pt.~ Me,.·· 


35 River to the 48 Goodnight girl 56Witch's-Seine 
49 Pants part 57 Golden, e.g. 
36 Town near 
51 --Plaines 58 Tart
Padua 370smose 54 Deluxe 59--Ball 39 Melmackian of (arcade game) 
55 Southeast 
TV Kansas town 62 Kitchen meas. 
40 60's org. 44 Craved 46 With room to 
Get answers to any three clues 
spare 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
47 "Little Orphant 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
Annie" poet 
Today, Feb.14 Tues. Feb. 15 Wed. Feb.16 Thurs. Feb.17 

June Jordan Alison Lurie Charles Johnson 
Joy Harjo 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



L~'le4tWat 
A~e yoV\ iV\te~ested iV\ becomiV\9 pa~t of the Obse~ve~ p~odV\ctioV\ 
staff? 
• Wo..-k oV\e o..-mo..-e eveV\iV\gs pe..­week to ea..-V\ ext..-a cash 
•Compl-\te..-expe..-ieV\ce helpft.-\11 bl-\t V\ot V\ecessa..-y 
call Che,.yl Mosel" a+ 631-5305 fol" mol"e infol"mation 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
-
.... 
-
t.. 

• 
\!= '{OO WORK AI'ID STUD'{ REAl 1-\1\R\) 
FOR '{EP.,RS P.,~\) 'it.ARS I iO\l CO\Jl\) 
DE'JELOI' T\-\t: \)oWt:.RS ~0\J 
A.LRBO'i 1-\f>NE . 
.,., 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
1 .... ~ 
I 


SPORTS 

The Observer/Eric Reuthling 

Monty Williams slams two of his game-high 27 points. 
Big ones slip away from Irish tennis teams 
Kansas gets 
Zurcher paces revenge, but near-upset of Irish rebound No.4 Texas 
Observer Staff Report 
By PHIL LANGER 
Spores Writer 

Kansas wanted revenge and got it with an 8-1 victory over The upset-minded Notre the 18th-ranked Notre Dame Dame men's tennis team split women's tennis team Friday at 
their weekend double-header, beating Ohio State 6-3 beforethe Eck Pavilion. 

losing a 5-4 heartbreaker toBut the Irish took out their No.4 Texas.

frustrations Sunday with a 7-2 win over William & Mary. 
The Irish started their week­

The Irish had defeated 
end by defeating Ohio State onKansas 5-4 in each of their last Friday. Seniors Andy Zurcher, two meetings. 

Tad Eckert, Tom North, sopho­

But the No. 15 Jayhawks mores Mike Sprouse, Jason swept the top five singles Punn and John Jay O'Brien matches and all the doubles were victorious. matches to make sure Friday's The spotlight of the weekend, match wouldn't be that close. however, fell on Sunday's 
matchup between raw talentedChristy Faustmann at No. 6 Notre Dame and battle-wornsingles was the lone Irish win­Texas.

ner. Laura Schwab went three sets It seemed to come down toin a losing effort at No. 5 sin­
one match, one tie-breaker,

gles and no other Irish players and one handful of points. 
threatened. 
Yet, when freshman Ryan

Notre Dame reversed its for­
Simme and senior Todd Wilson tunes Sunday, winning every lost their third doubles match match but No. 3 singles and to Traper/Ponci of Texas 9-8 No. 3 doubles against William after serving for the win at 7-6, & Mary. it wouldn't have seemed possi­
Faustmann at No. 5 singles 
ble with the singles matches yet to be played. 

was the only Irish winner taken ll1 *'~-illl!lllllllllii!llilf§lll!~--~
The Observer/Eric Reuthling It was while senior Andy
to three sets. 
Allan Lopez and the Irish men's tennis team came
The Irish are now 5-1. 
within one match of defeating No.4 Texas. see TENNIS/ page 14 

Inside SPORTS 


Women's Basketball 

Hockey 
Track 
Beth Morgan scored 21 
Joe Piane's men's and 

Effort doesn't equal wins 
... 
points to lead the Irish in 
women's track teams

for Ric Schafer's Irish 
an 89-62 rout of 
have different results at
hockey team. 

Evansville. 
weekend meets. 
see page 18 
see page15

see page 17 
,. ..­





