
l 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
History of 

Sources doubt a Papal visit to U.S. 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT 
AIDS long,

Pope marks 
News Writer 
Pope John Paul II will 

16 years as 


involved

probably not make another 
trip to the United States, and it is likely that the cardinal church head 
By EDWARD IMBUS electorate in Rome is already 
News Writer Associated Press 
thinking about his replace­ment, according to Fr. 
"It's interesting that Notre VATICAN CITY 
Dame grads are now beingPope John Paul II markedRichard McBrien. professor of 
made VD officers in the CDC." the 16th anniversary of his theology at Notre Dame. 
With that papacy Sunday by elevating "Officially, he's postponed 
introduc­

it," said McBrien, "but there's five people toward sainthood 
tion, Dr. and asking worshipers for
enough basis for suspicion ... 
J a m e sthat he will never make the their blessings. 

Curran, the "Pray for me," said the 74­trip [to the United States]." 
associate di­year-old pontiff to the crowdThe pope's recent hip re­
rector of the of 40,000 people in St.
placement operation follows 
Center for Peter's Square. 
on the heels of a dislocated 
Disease The pope appeared restedshoulder, which followed the 

con t r o I James Curran 

removal of a benign tumor, and in good health. The pope (CDC) inwhich followed an infection has used a cane since hip-re­
charge of studying and con­placement surgery in Aprilthat developed during his hos­
trolling HIV and AIDS and a and in recent months haspital stay for recovery from 
Notre Dame graduate, lectured often looked fatigued, raising an assassination attempt. But 
last Saturday to a filled speculation about whetherdespite these several serious 
Cushing Auditorium. he was seriously ill. 
operations, the pope shows no 
signs of slowing down. 
He celebrated Mass on an Curran was among the first
McBrien recently heard outdoor altar under large 
physicians to recognize a trendfrom a CBS producer in Rome portraits of the three nuns 

of strange cases in homosexual and two priests who werethat the pope "looks very old." 
men, which scientists and doc­

"We're at the end of a tors later determined to be
pontificate period ... He's an 84 year old man at 74," 
HIV, the AIDS virus, in 1981. McBrien said, suggesting that 
But according to him, "We are still at the beginning of thisthe pope has at most another five years to live. "He's not disease, and it will last much longer and will continue togoing to get stronger, but weaker." 

develop long after we are gone."

Pope John Paul II last visit­The first lead cases wereed the U.S. during the sum­
noted in medical journals

mer of 1993. 
when cases with similar symp­

Fr. James Flanigan, a toms in the same city andprofessor of art who just among the same population
returned from Rome, said 
group -homosexual males ­

that the stir around the 
appeared. Initially tied to can­Vatican is that the Pope is 

cer because of the specific

recovering, albeit slowly. The group involved and its effect of Pope has made a rapid recov­
immune suppression,

ery and his present condition researchers were able to learn
may be due to his current 
it was a newly found viruspace which the doctors have altogether.

tried to control, he said. "He is too stubborn to fol­AIDS was also first thoughtlow his doctor's orders," said only to be a danger to the ho­Flanigan, noting that he is not mosexual community until oc­likely to retire. 
currences of pnemunocystis
Flanigan met with the 
pnemonae, a disease found inpress secretary to the German most AIDS cases, were foundbishops during his stay, and in hemophelia patients. It con­shared the report that some vinced experts that the disease people around the Vatican 

was somehow transmittable

were concerned that the Pope through bodily fluids, and that
may have had a minor stroke. Names of possible successors to the 74 year-old pontiff, shown here during his August 1993 visit to Denver, are circulating. 
see AIDS I page 4 see POPE I page 4 

Chicago's Larkin discusses misconceptions in Irish history 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST University, is widely respected English, that it was carried by 250,000 people dying and 2 absurd," he said. News Writer on both sides of the Atlantic, corruption and intimidation, million emigrating, but he dis­Some of the commonly held according to Scott Appleby, di­that the Irish never consented agreed that the English took beliefs regarding the Catholicity 
Three myths that have been rector of Notre Dame's Cushwa to the treaty, and that the advantage of the plight to of Ireland over the last 300 previously accepted by Irish Center for the Study of terms imposed by the treaty strengthen their influence over years are also invalid, accord­historians are only partly true, American Catholicism. were unfair, all of these claims the land and culture of Ireland. ing to Larkin. said Emmet Larkin, professor "Larkin is the foremost au­are untrue, Larkin said. "The Irish belief that, 'God "The proposition that of history at the University of thority on the Roman Catholic "None of these claims can be sent the plight on the potato, Irishmen were more religiously Chicago, in a lecture Friday. Church in Ireland," said historically validated," Larkin but the English sent the famine' inclined than anyone else is not 
The popular beliefs were that Appleby, whose Cushwa Center said. "There is no evidence.' is false," Larkin said. an historically viable state­the 1801 treaty that united co-sponsored the lecture with The English were more con­ment," he said. Great Britain and Ireland was the Ancient Order of cerned with protecting their "The English should have Moreover, the practices of an act of aggression against the Hibernians. own interests than with exploit­closed the ports to prevent the extermination and persecution Irish, that the potato famine of ing the Irish, he said. exportation of food," Larkin endorsed by Oliver Cromwell the late 1840s was worsened by Larkin proposed that four "Their real motive was rooted suggested, "but I don't think and other Protestants during English cruelty, and that the statements which had previ­in English national security," he there is any historical evidence the 1600s were not representa­Roman Catholic Church pro­ously supported the first myth said. "Furthermore, the terms that they intentionally con­tive of the relations between vided the average Irishman are misleading in his lecture, of the treaty were generous and tributed to the famine." Catholics and Protestants in with his only identity. But they titled "Myth and Revisionism in fair given Ireland's conditions Claims that England was Ireland in the following cen­are oversimplifications of what Irish History," and wealth." guilty of attempted genocide turies. really happened, Larkin said. While Irish statesmen be­In discussing the potato are unsubstantiated, Larkin "The worst of the penal laws 
Larkin, who received his mas­lieved that the passing of the famine, Larkin agreed that it said. was over by the mid-1700s," ter's and doctoral degrees in Act of Union treaty was caused was the worst event suffered by "To say that the English were Larkin said. "After 1780, toler history from Columbia by a conspiracy among the the Irish people, with over the equivalent of the Nazis is 
see lARKIN I page 4 
1 
1 
~ 



,~--~­
! 
~ 
I I 
r f 
l· 
page 2 

The first of 
many steps to 

equality ... 

My job as an R.A. entails much more than simply being on duty and enforc­ing university rules. I try to make each member of my section feel comfort­able with her living arrangement, encourage her to take advantage of the university's resources, and make the most of her talents. However, as much as I try to empower her, I cannot protect her from the negative attitudes about women which are prevelant at Notre Dame. 
The Alumni and Carroll Hall newsletters which were read at "Notre Dame Speaks Out About Women" and printed in The Observer on October 13, should outrage every person at this university. Amazingly, however, I've heard some students say they thought Alumni's "Top Ten Ways to Spot a ND or SMC Chick over Break" and Carroll's "Definition of Woman" were funny. Even Alumni and Carroll residents who were offended by these newsletters when they were distributed, but did nothing to prevent them from being read by other residents, are condoning these nega­tive attitudes about women. If these com­ments were of a racial nature and printed in residence halls, would you laugh and/or let them be distributed? This behavior-racially or sexually aimed-is not acceptable and can­not be tolerated by Notre Dame women and men. 
As an R.A., I have dealt with eating disor­ders and sexual harassment in my dorm. When Notre Dame or Saint Mary's women read that Alumni Hall residents recognize them at the beach because, "They are wear­ing a huge ND sweatshirt over their bikinis so as to cover their huge ass" and " They are the pale hideous fat chicks on the beach," how does that make these women feel when they are wearing a bathing suit? These negative attitudes and unreal physical expectations about women on campus defmitely contribute to the large number of eating disorders. 
Even more intolerable are statements such as " ... slap your leg and say: 'Here girl!' If she comes, kick her in the mouth and move on" and "(a woman is) the attachment that you screw in the bed, that does the housework," which encourage violent acts against women. These are often the attitudes ofperpetrators of domestic and sexual violence. Even if you still think these newsletters are funny and harmless, acceptance of these attitudes towards women are destructive. 
Unfortunately, the administration will prob­ably do nothing to punish or prevent these actions. Mraid of infringing upon first amendment rights, administrators will proba­bly not censor dorm newsletters. The admin­istration restricts our freedom by strictly enforcing parietals, for example, but will not prevent these libelous comments in dorm pubJjcations. Because the university ignores these actions which are harmful to half of the student body, the responsibility of changing these negative attitudes falls upon both men and women students. We must inform the authors of these statements that their behav­ior is unacceptable. Ending these attitudes is only the first of many steps in ensuring com­plete equality for every Notre Dame man and woman. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TonAv's STAFF  
News  Production  
Liz Foran  David Diaz  
Brad Prendergast  Elizabeth Harnisch  

Sports Graphics Man Casey Roben Bollman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, October 17, 1994 
• Wm:tt.il AT A GLANCE 

Five die in raids on militants 
CAIRO, Egypt 

Five suspected Islamic militants, including the alleged mastermind of a plot to kill Nobel Prize-winning writer Naguib Mahfouz, were killed in raids across Egypt, police said Sunday. 
An Interior Ministry statement said seven suspects were arrested in connection with the stabbing of Mahfouz on Friday. It said the attack was part of a campaign by the Islamic Group to destabilize Egypt. 
Four suspected radicals were shot dead Saturday night in southern Egypt, where police are battling extremists trying to topple the government and install Islamic rule. 
More than 430 people, mostly police and militants, have died in 2 1/2 years of violence. 
The alleged leader of the Mahfouz plot, Basem Mo­hammed Khalil Shaheen, was killed in a shootout with police Saturday night at a coffee shop in a Cairo suburb, the ministry said. 
Shaheen had been sentenced in absentia to three years in prison for the 1990 assassination of anti-extremist writer and secular thinker Farag Foda. 
The ministry statement said the man who allegedly knifed Mahfouz was wounded in the gun battle and ar­rested. A bystander was also wounded. 
The 83-year-old Mahfouz, winner of the 1988 Nobel Prize for literature, was stabbed in the neck several times Friday by a man he· thought wanted to shake hands. The assailant fled in a waiting Mercedes. 
The ministry said the attempt to kill Mahfouz was the second in two days. It said two members of Shaheen's group went to Mahfouz's house on Thursday to kill him, but he was not home. 
Two other assailants were arrested in Ain Shams and four other plotters seized in raids elsewhere in Cairo, the ministry said. 
Mahfouz underwent surgery, and doctors have pro­nounced him in good condition, considering his age. He suffers from diabetes and is nearly blind. 
No one has claim!3d responsibility for the attack. 
But radicals have criticized Mahfouz for favoring peace with Israel and for what they say are blasphemous depic­tions of religious prophets Jesus Christ and Mohammed in his 1959 novel "Children of Gebelawi." The book is banned in Egypt. 
Islamic radicals pronounced a death sentence on the writer in 1989, soon after British author Salman Rushdie was condemned to death by Iran's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini for the book, "Satanic Verses." 
Bloated budget may gas Costner's film 
NEW YORK 

Kevin Costner is determined to 
com­plete the sci-fi adventure "Waterworld," despite its bloated bud­get. After four months of filming on Hawaii's Big Island and more than two months to go, the movie has cost more than $100 million, the Daily News Sunday. Costner's salary is $12 million to play a half-man, half-fish pitted against bad guy Dennis Hopper, the newspaper said. Costner's ocean-view bungalow with butler and chef costs $4,500-a-night. Food • steak and lobsters included -and lodging for the cast and crew of about 1,500 has cost more than $25 million, the newspaper said. Universal Pictures President Casey Silver, MCA President Sidney Sheinberg and other executives went to Hawaii for a crisis meeting. Sheinberg came away optimistic. "I really be­lieve this picture has enormous potential," he said. "Do I wish the movie had cost less? Of course!" At times, Cost­ner said, the movie ..has been a mess. I try to be honest and there is no point pretending this is a normal film." 
II II II  Too Ten Movies T~is Weekend at the Box Office in millions of dollars Pulp Fiction 9.2 The Specialist 8.9 Wes Craven•s 7.1  II II II  
II II  New Nightmare R Little Giants  II II  
II II  Only You Forrest Gump Exit to Eden  3.1  II II  
II II  The Shadowshank 2.5 Redemption Quiz Show  II II  

. • I I" •,,. :. ' 


Warrant issued for weary elephant 
NEW DELHI, India 

Forest officials in India's remote Andaman islands are hunting down a healthy male elephant because he rested from hauling logs on a road, blocking VIP traffic for hours. The elephant, Bir Bahadur, is hiding in the jun­gles. But jeeploads of officials are trying to execute a death warrant issued by an angered official whose vehicle was blocked. Bir Bahadur, who was employed by the Forest Department to haul logs, was found resting on a road through which a motorcade of the top local civilian administrator was to pass. He had lost interest in his work after forest officials replaced his trainer. No reason was immediately available why his trainer was changed. Mter several hours Bir Bahadur did leave the road, but by that time the enraged administrator, who was not identi­fied by name, issued orders that the elephant should be examined to determine if it had turned mad. In India ele­phants are a protected species, but they can be killed if experts certify that an elephant has turned rogue. 

70.000 Protest Immigration Measure 
LOS ANGELES 

Nearly 70,000 people waving signs and Mexican flags surrounded City Hall on Sunday to denounce a ballot mea­sure that would deny health care, schooling and other public services to illegal immigrants .. "We are Hispanic and all the people who are Hispanic .:·; are suffering," one male shouted. Signs included "Stop Immigrant Bashing Now" and "These Hands Pick Your Food." Voters will decide on Proposition 187 at the Nov. 8 election. Opponents say the measure is racist, mean-spirited and unconstitutional. Supporters say the proposal is about economics not race, and. that undocumented immigrants cost the state $2.4 billion a year. Recent polls show that the majority of Californians support the initiative. Police said the demonstration was largely peaceful. Many in the crowd opposed Republican Gov. Pete Wilson as much as the measure. Wilson is one of the main supporters of the initiative. From the stage, former state Supreme Court Justice Cruz Reynoso denounced the measure's require­ment that teachers and doctors turn in suspected illegal immigrants. "Are we a people to tell on one another in that fashion?" he said. "I say, 'No!"' 


Monday, Oct. 17 

Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 17. 
Unes separate high temperature zones lor the day. 

COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  C 1994 Accu·W&ather. Inc.  
Pressure H L  m  ESI!TII  0  ~El  ~  ~ L-J.G  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

Dallas  80  72  New Orleans 81  69  
Denver  55  37  New York  63  45  
Los Angeles 77  59  Philadelphia 67  44  
Miami  82  71  Phoenix  74  52  
Minneapolis 63  57  Pittsburgh  72  40  

----------..---­
--~ 

Monday, October 17, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 



Generation discovers service 
By BRUCE SMITH a $4,725 education grant. They Associated Press also do it for themselves. Michael Williams, 21, of CHARLESTON, S.C. Durham, N.C., spent a year 
Whether slogging sandbags in after high school graduation marsh mud, repairing motels to working in a pizza parlor house the homeless or sorting before he joined up. medical records, a new genera-"It took me a long time to fig­tion of Americans is helping ure out where I would go when others. I got out of high school," he 
And unlike the Peace Corps, said. "Now I see myself going they are doing it at home. almost anywhere." 
At a soon-to-close Navy base, 233 young people have pledged He recently spent five weeks a year of their lives to the painting and restoring exhibits National Civilian Community aboard the USS Yorktown, the Corps. It's part of President vintage aircraft carrier that is a Clinton's larger national service state-run tourist attraction in initiative, AmeriCorps. Charleston Harbor. 
They work for minimum "I wanted to challenge wage; for free housing, uni-myself," said a mud-splattered forms and health care; and for Amanda Colton as she used from stacking sandbags along the Ashley River. "It's hard get­ting up at 6 o'clock in the morning. But I have never said I wanted to quit." 
Colton, 18, of Summerville, joined to put money away for college. 
Congress created the $21 mil­lion NCCC and AmeriCorps last year. About 1,000 youths, be­tween 18 and 24, are attending four training camps in Maryland, Colorado, California and South Carolina for the NCCC. 
They work for government or nonprofit agencies in educa­tion, the environment, social services and public safety, and 
are trained in everything from 
iili.i-iiiiiii.iiliiiii_liiii_iiiiii_____________-.landscaping to working with Colton and her crew filled 
President of the Woodstone Consulting Co. &  shore up an old boat landing at Drayton Hall, an 18th century plantation on the National Register of Historic Places. They learned a little about engineering, a little about the  
former Executive VP of Human  environment and a little about life in colonial times.  
Relations for PepsiCo  
speaks on  
"The Value of Teamwork &  
the Need to be Cross­ 
Functional in Today's  
Corporation"  


presented by the Saint Mary's Chapter of the American Marketing Association 

LA SALLE PARTNERS 
Financial Analyst Program 
Financial Analyst for LaSalle Partners Limited, an international real estate firm providing Advisory, Asset Management, Tenant Representation, Corporate Finance and Land Services to corporate and institutional clients. 
LOCATIONS Offices located in Chicago, Denver, London, Los Angeles, Mexico, New York and Washington, D.C. 
INTERVIEW DATES Interviews will be held November 14, 1994. Resumes for invitational interviews must be submitted October 17th and 18th. 
EDUCATION All majors are welcome. Strong quantitative experience and sound communication skills are required. 
PRESENTATION A presentation outlining the Financial Analyst Program and LaSalle Partners will be held: 
Christopher says U.S. won't wait next ti01e 
ByJIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The United States will not wait to retaliate the next time Saddam Hussein sends his troops south to threaten Kuwait, Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Sunday. 
The warning came a day after the U.N. Security Council unan­imously voted to demand that Iraq end all "hostile or provocative" actions against Kuwait. 
"The message is clear," President Clinton said Sunday. "Iraq must complete its with­drawal. It must not threaten its neighbors in the future." 
Christopher, speaking on NBC's "Meet the Press," also said it was improbable that Saddam can stay in power even if he complies with all the U.N. resolutions required to bring about a lifting of economic sanctions. 
Christopher emphasized that the United States has all the necessary authority it needs under existing U.N. resolutions to attack Iraqi forces moving toward the Kuwaiti border. 
"Next time, we'll probably not wait. We will take action, strong action against him," the secretary said. . 
Christopher's warning was echoed by U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Madeleine Albright, who said the Mideast region is vital to U.S. national interests and the United States is pre­pared to go it alone to stop Iraqi aggression. 
The United States will work "multilaterally when we can, unilaterally when we must," she said on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley." 
The administration's tough words on Iraq came amid open differences with Russia over the lifting of sanctions and how far 
U.N. resolutions go in authoriz­ing attacks on Iraqi troops. 
Russia reluctantly went along with the Security Council vote Saturday demanding Iraq with­draw its elite troops from the Kuwaiti border. 


refreshments will be served 1640 S. Bend Avenue· 271-0115 

FREE DELIVERY TO YOUR DORM OR OFFICE 
2218 S. Main Monday, October 17th 
South Bend 6:00-8:00pm 
EXPIRES 11/3/94 Alumni Room Call for Details The Morris Inn 
CALL 189-6371 or 
Chicago · London · Los Angeles · Mexico City · New York · Washington, D.C. 

1-800-634-6517

• 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October 17, 1994 
Aids 
continued from page 1 
research should focus on finding a virus as the new killer. 
Curran gave statistics to show how AIDS has spread since its discovery. From only 1,000 cases of AIDS reported in the United States in 1983, there were 10,000 cases reported in 1985. This year, Curran esti­mated that 1,000 new cases are reported every four days, and that these statistics do not reflect the endemic in Africa and Asia. 
However, the United States is new in an "era of discovery" with new drug studies and test­

16 years 
continued from page 1 
beatified, the last step before possible sainthood. 
Those beatified included two Spanish nuns, an Italian nun, and priests born in France and Chile. Chilean President Ed­uardo Frei was at the cere­mony. 
One of the Spanish nuns, Maria Rafols Bruna, dedicated her life to helping the sick and mentally disturbed. She found­ed a medical institute in Zaragoza, Spain, before her 

Larkin 
continued from page 1 
ation became the norm." 
What kept the myth alive, said Larkin, were the inten­tions of some Englishmen to convert the Irish to the Church of England. 
"Proselytizing so poisoned Catholic-Protestant relations that the effects lasted well into the twentieth century," Larkin said. 
Had the Irish recognized that the British government was not giving any financial support or 


Recycle The Observer 

ing in a large number of cases, 
according to Curran. More­
over, in 1983 the CDC was able 
to gain a consensus for national 
recommendations from its offi­
cials and other health experts. 
Because of that report, warn­
ings were sent to high risks 
groups. 
Since that time, homosexual 
males still account for 4 7 per­
cent of all AIDS cases, though 
that number has not risen in 
some time. Drug users account 
26 percent of those with AIDS, 
and those in both categories 
hold 6 percent. Hemopheliacs, 
since blood testing has been 
developed, account for only 1 
percent. 
African-American women 
constitute the fastest rising 
group of AIDS cases in the U.S. 
population. White women are 
the fourth fastest. Women on 
death in 1853. 
Sister Petra di San Guiseppe Perez Florida established con­vents across her native Spain. She died in 1906. 
In Italy, Sister Giuseppina Vannini also founded clinics and medical programs for decades until her death in 1911. 
Rev. Alberto Hurtado Cruchaga, a Jesuit priest from Chile, spent his life assisting the poor and founded a labor movement to help exploited workers. He died in 1952. 
Rev. Nicola Roland of France, who died in 1678, founded the religious order dedicated to ed­ucating youths and the poor. 
endorsement to the missionar­ies, the animosity between the two sides might not have been so great. Larkin suggested. 
The combination of these three myths helped to reinforce the Irish's image that they were an oppressed class, ac­cording to Larkin. 
"What gave the myths their real power was their cumula­tive effect," he said. "The myths were so effective that even [William] Gladstone [four­time prime minister of the United Kingdom from 1868­1894] believed the myth that the treaty of 1801 was oppres­sive." 
the whole are more susceptible to HIV transmission than men are, said Curran, and AIDS cases are becoming much more prevalent in women than men. 
The frequency of heterosex­ual transmission of HIV is ap­proximately 9,000 cases per year, and is growing steadily, Curran said. Substance abuse remains "at the root" of trans­mission between heterosexuals, said Curran, citing that there 
are  1.2 million  active  in­ 
travenous drug users.  
In  order  to  combat  the  

spread of HIV, and thus AIDS, Curran said that 88 percent of all schools have HIV education, much of which is CDC spon­sored. He reported that con­dom use "has, thank God, gone up significantly." Latex con­doms remain the best defense 
Pope 
continued from page I 
There are also a frenzy of re­ports concerning possible suc­cessors to Pope John Paul II should the pontiff's sickness prove fatal. 
"You can be very sure the cardinal electors are thinking very much about who should succeed John Paul II," Fr. McBrien said in a Sept. 25 New York Times article. 
With cardinals at work at the Roman Curia, and more still in town for the Synod, McBrien said that the cardinals are like­ly to talk about what qualities they look for in a successor. 
"Even the conservative cardi­nals recognize ... that the next pope should be someone who is less divisive," he said. 
Pope John Paul II is a man who has "worn his convictions on his sleeve," McBrien contin­ued. 
"His pontificate has alienated large segments of the church," McBrien said, adding that the cardinals think that the next for the sexually active, and studies are being conducted on the efficacy of female condoms and spermicide for HIV preven­tion. 
Curran advocated sex educa­tion and condom use at a rea­sonable age, stating that "giv­ing teens and other people the skills to protect themselves does not condone sexual activ­ity." He said that in Switzer­land, the government has an active sex education and HIV prevention program, but the Swiss have not seen any rise in sexual activity in either boys or girls since its adoption. 
He also supported the fund­ing of more drug treatment programs, especially for IV cocaine users, and longer treatment to help them stop their drug use permanently. 
When asked what advice he 
pope has to be a "healing" pope. 
"The next pope," he said, "is not going to be a carbon copy of the present pope, but some­one who is going to be very different in personality." 
Some names which have come up are Carlo Mario Cardinal Martini, Archbishop of Milan and former rector at the Gregorian University in would specifically give Notre Dame students amid the AIDS epidemic, Curran immediately answered, "Students need to assess their risk and drug use, including alcohol abuse, hon­estly ... The higher the risk, the more susceptible they will be to acquiring HIV. 

"And students should not think of AIDS as a health prob­lem. not a moral problem or another person's problem. It is our problem, and the first re­action people should have to­wards those with AIDS is one of compassion, not denounce­ment. 
"I would hope that Notre Dame students will be leaders in this field, not followers or victims of narrow thinking, since AIDS will be a major pub­lic health problem for the rest of their lives." 
Rome, as well as Bernardin Cardinal Gantin, a West African and prefect of the Congregation for Bishops. 
McBrien believes Cardinal Martini to be, at the very least, somewhere on the list of possi­ble successors of anyone at the Vatican who is "in the know." While he makes no predictions, McBrien identified Cardinal Martini as a biblical scholar, moderate and highly respected. 


Monday, October 17, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Back to square one inN. Korea Israel resumes talks 
By CAROLYN HENSON ment toward a settlement. in Beijing for talks, said an Associated Press "There is no progress to agreement could still come as 
with Palestinians 
report and we have not set soon as this week. 
GENEVA plans for further meetings," Perry described the Geneva Negotiators from the United chief U.S. negotiator Robert negotiations as moving towards States and North Korea held Gallucci said in a terse state­a "very complicated ... very far­two hours of unscheduled talks ment. reaching agreement that would Sunday on easing nuclear ten­But Defense Secretary entail "working with the North sions, but reported no move-William Perry, arriving Sunday Korean for years and years to 
come." He did not elaborate. Gallucci met informally with 
his North Korean counterpart, Kang Sok Ju, on Sunday, although no meeting had been planned. The two sides had seemed close to a breakthrough Saturday, but the talks ended acrimoniously. 
North Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman Ho Jong said the U.S. delegation had raised an "unacceptable and abnormal position." 
"Therefore the discussions became very serious and divi­sive," he said, without elabo­rating. 
Neither side explained why the talks had stalled. In Seoul, South Korean officials said the United States was demanding North Korea open up dialogue with the South as part of the agreement. • 
North Korea says any dia­logue between the two Koreas is an inter-Korea issue that does not concern the United States. 
South Korea believes Washington is making too many concessions to the North. Seoul was particularly concerned by reports North Korea might be allowed a five-year breathing space before opening up two suspected nuclear waste sites to international inspections. 

By ARIEH O'SULLNAN 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel agreed Sunday to re­sume talks with the Palestini­ans on extending autonomy in the occupied lands, after they were suspended last week over the kidnapping of an Israeli sol­dier by Islamic militants. 
A spokesman for Prime Min­ister Yitzhak Rabin said negoti­ations would resume in Cairo, Egypt, on Tuesday. PLO leader Yasser Arafat declined com­ment, but Palestinian sources said privately that their side would attend the talks. 
The Israeli Cabinet also re­opened the Gaza Strip, sealed off during the kidnapping crisis. But ministers emphasized they expected Arafat to continue with his crackdown against Hamas, the militant fundamen­talist group that captured the soldier. 
On another front in the Mideast peace talks, Rabin made an unannounced visit to Jordan on Sunday amid signs that Jordan and Israel were nearing a full-blown peace treaty. 
It was Rabin's third visit to the kingdom in two weeks and the fourth since July 25, when Jordan and Israel declared an end to the 46-year state of war between them. The talks also focused on water sharing and border disputes, Israel radio reported. 
Israel's talks with the Pales­tinians were suspended follow­ing the abduction of 19-year­old Nachshon Waxman, who was killed by his captors Friday night when Israeli commandos stormed their hideout near Jerusalem. A commando and three militants also died in the raid. 
Fallout from the raid was still felt Sunday in Gaza, where hundreds of Palestinian police blocked roads in central Gaza City to prevent riots, then joined Israeli soldiers in defus­ing protests by hundreds of Is­~amic militants near an isolated 
Learn by Doing 
At Northwestern University's Medill School ofJournalism, you learn the media business hands-on. Editorial students repon alongside big-city journalists. Magazine students produce a magazine and broadcast students a weekly newscast. Integrated marketing communications students work internships and campaigns. And when you're in the classroom, you learn from faculty with professional experience as well as academic credentials. 
Ask for more information about our graduate programs: 
0 Journalism  0 Integrated Marketing  
-Reporting and Writing  Communications  
-Magazine Publishing  -Advertising  
-Broadcast Journalism  -Public Relations  
-Newspaper Management  -Direct Marketing  

Medill School ofJournalism Northwestern University

MediiI 
Evanston, Illinois 60208-2101 708/491-5228 708/467-2319 Fax myrogers@nwu.edu 
Jewish settlement. 
Violence also was reported in the West Bank, where soldiers shot and killed a Palestinian, 22-year-old Emad Edabe, near Hebron after he refused orders to halt. The army said Edabe had appeared to be committing a theft. 
Under intense pressure from Rabin, who believed incorrectly that Waxman was being held in Palestinian-controlled Gaza, Arafat arrested 160 fundamen­talists in a two-day sweep last week. 
Arafat had been reluctant to crack down on Hamas since au­tonomy was established in Gaza and Jericho in May, because the movement has considerable support in the strip. 
On Sunday, Palestinian police with shields and helmets formed a human chain around the Gaza's central prison, where thousands of Islamic militants had rallied Saturday, threatening to "make Gaza burn" if their arrested col­leagues were not released. Some jailed fundamentalists began a hunger strike, Israel radio said. 
After the police blocked eight busloads of students from Is­lamic University on the south­ern outskirts of Gaza City, the students marched toward the tiny Jewish settlement of Net­zarim. Netzarim is one of sev­eral Jewish settlements which remain in the strip under Is­raeli army guard pending a fi­nal agreement on their status. 
The students threw stones at the Israeli soldiers guarding the settlement and at Palestinian police who formed a buffer between the two groups, a Palestinian officer at the scene said. 
Settlers said the rioters were armed. Israeli troops ordered the settlers to go home and called a helicopter to take a woman in labor to the hospital, Israel radio said. 
Several hours later, Pales­
tinian police persuaded the ri­
oters to disperse. Lt. Abu Mo­
hammed said there were no 
casualties. 

iEACH FOR AMERICA......______... 
---~---------------------------------------~ 
CAMPUSES 
Page 6 Monday, October 17, 1994 
Smashing pumpkins at UCSD 
By MARCY DINIUS Members of the Muir resi­off into an area below that has Campuses Editor dence council are hoping to find been cordoned off to prevent a truck driver that is traveling spectators from being injured. 
Students at Muir College at west from Indiana that would Each dorm contributes four the University of California at be willing to bring the pumpkin bags of candy to be placed in­San Diego are trying to find a to UCSD, since other means of side the hollowed-out pumpkin. way to get a 300-pound pump­shipping would be cost-prohibi­Students gathered to watch the kin from Purdue University to tive. Yet no one to date has spectacle flock to snatch anySan Diego before Halloween to been found and Halloween is candy that remains after a ten­
drop it off the roof of a dorm in soon approaching. second countdown and the en­an annual Halloween festival The pumpkin-dropping tradi­suing fall. tradition. tion is in its eleventh year as "The impact of the pumpkin is A professor at Purdue who part of Muir College's annual so great that the candy is prettyheard about the pumpkin­Halloween Festival. Each year, much smashed, so you just try 
smashing tradition at UCSD of­a pumpkin averaging approxi­to salvage what you can," said fered free of charge one of his mately 150 pounds is dropped Tioga resident Melissa Mertz. giant, home-grown pumpkins to from the eleventh floor of Tioga At UCSD, it is illegal at all 
be sacrificed this year. The Hall, the tallest residence hall other times to throw anything only catch: the students must on the UCSD campus on the out of a residence-hall window. find their own transportation weekday closest to Halloween. The pumpkin-throwing tradi­for the pumpkin from West The vice-chair of the Muir res­tion is the only exception made Lafayette, Indiana to Southern idence council receives the to the otherwise-enforced rule California. honor of pushing the pumpkin by the administration. 
Changes at Miami good and bad 
By ZOE MARIN doesn't mind, it's not fair to tell services for students as well. 
Assistant Campuses Editor them they can't." According to students quoted Some faculty members, in­in the university's newspaper, Over the summer at the cluding journalism professor The Hurricane, the food is bet­
University of Miami, the admin­Christine Davidson, believe that ter than before. istration decided to follow suit the changes are good if they Statistics show that during the with the Florida Clean Indoor discourage students from smok­first two weeks of the new 
Air Act by prohibiting smoking ing. restaurant, 500 to 600 students in all indoor facilities even Despite the changes with a day were choosing to dine at though the university is consid­smoking, the university has the student center. ered an independent commu­added a few perques to student Students not only have more nity. This ban includes all pri­life on campus. choices for dining, but also for 
vate offices and residence hall Students can now use their viewing. UM Vision, the uni­rooms. student identification cards, or versity's cable television chan­This complete ban of smoking "Cane" cards as they are com­nel, is expanding its program­at the university progressed in monly called, at the restaurant ming to include excerpts of 
stages with smoking frrst being in the student center on cam­shows from CNBC, a channel banned in public areas such as pus. specializing in business and classrooms and bathrooms. The food-service cart located talk shows, in addition to its 
Student and faculty views on in the student center was locally produced programs. the policy are mixed. closed down to violation of By expanding the program­According to senior Laura health and city codes and re­ming, the university hopes to Stablein, "You're paying $450 a opened by a local restaurant have a 24 hour programming month to live in a dorm room. company which now accepts schedule. If someone wants to light up a the cards for payment. This Reporters from The Hurricane cigarette and their roommate same company runs the dining contributed to this article. 
Columbia editor quits Illinois after setting off alarm deals with 
Associated Press the Spectator detailed how she 
faculty cuts 
was burned. 
NEW YORK 

'On Sunday afternoon," it 
By MARCY DINIUS 
A picture may be worth a 

read, "Spectator Editor-in-chief 
Campuses Editor 
thousand words, but the editor 

Ruth Halikman pulled a false 
of a college newspaper is hop­fire alarm in Furnald Hall to With a 6.5 percent decrease ining they don't include these facilitate the taking of a photo­faculty size at the University of three: You're under arrest. 

graph of the fire department's Illinois since 1986, classes have 
Fire marshals were on the 

new truck as it arrived at the become larger and fewer in 
trail Friday of Ruth Halikman, scene." number as the university tries who as editor in chief of the to cope. Columbia Daily Spectator al­Insufficient funds to replace
Engine Co. No. 47's newest legedly pulled a false fire alarm faculty members that either
piece of equipment responded 
at Columbia University last have retired or moved to other
as a photographer shot away. 
schools have left 130 positions
Sunday so a photographer 

Word that Halikman had taken 
unfilled at the Urbana campus. 
could get shots of a new fire 

the news into her own hands 
In a request to the Universitytruck. 
spread quickly, and she re­
Board of Trustees, the univer­A photographer did snap the 
signed after a meeting of the 
sity asked for $2.3 million to
shots when the truck re­

paper's managing board. hire 60-70 replacements forsponded to the alarm. 
"We discussed the problem departed faculty. 
But Halikman's next assign­and Ruth decided that the best The university is attempting to 

ment was typing up a letter of way to deal with the issue was maximize class sizes while re­resignation on Monday. to resign," said managing edi­taining the quality of education tor Mike Stanton. "She said she 
received in smaller classes. Fire Department spokesman Some colleges have been
really didn't understand what Jerry Sanford said that the Ivy forced to decrease student en­
the consequences of pulling a 
League student could also be rollment while others have
fire alarm were." 
sought assistance from businesscharged with falsely reporting 
Associate photo editor Rich 
to fund teaching and research
an incident, a misdemeanor 

Altman, who took the pictures, 
programs and from other uni­punishable by a fine to be de­
also agreed to leave the paper 
versities at which students can
cided by a judge. but denied knowing about the take courses in an exchange
Halikman was out of town 

false alarm. programs.
Friday and could not be 

Halikman could also face dis­Reporter Matt Goldfeder of the reached for comment. 
ciplinary action from the Daily Illini contribu(ed to this But a Wednesday editorial in article.
school. 
.. ----------_ ___.J 1.-.tt+ b ~ -......_.....,_..A.,..... ""*~_, -. ... --~ ·.-'l.Jio·.: 
l_. -----·------­

FSU band on probation for hazing of 'gunkies' 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. Florida State has put its march­ing band on probation for three years for hazing its new mem­bers, known as"gunkies," by blindfolding them and forcing them into drinking alcohol. 
A faculty disciplinary commit­tee said the band, the Marching Chiefs, must sit out one football game if any members are caught hazing before the end of the 1997 season. 
Music professors began an investigation in September after a campus newspaper printed allegations of hazing. Campus police also were inves­tigating new reports of hazing from last week, spokesman Jack Handley said Monday. 
Fraternity members reported the band and videotaped band members leading blindfolded "gunkies" through exercises outside one of the music build­ings. 
Music professor Clifford Madsen, who headed the fac­ulty probe said the band also put pressure on new members to drink, even if they were un­derage. 
"Any implied or encouraged competitive drinking where there is peer reinforcement for drunkenness is life threaten­ing," he said. 
But band members said the "gunkies" were already full members of the band, and the incidents could not be hazing if there was no fear of them being rejected. 


~-~ --------------------­
VIEWPOINT 

Monday, October 17, 1994 page? 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Bwiness Manager John Lucas Josrph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Ediror ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ...........................•... Mary Good Systems Manager ..................... , ...... Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Direcror ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Ediror ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor,Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notte Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions thwugh letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor /Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor /Production General Information  631-4541 631-4543 631-5323 631-4540 631-5303 631-7471  Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu  
• RIGHT OR WRONG?  

Read the Catechism before becoming God 
On Sept. 27, a National Institutes of Health panel urged federal funding of non-therapeutic experimentation on "preimplantation embryos resulting from in vitro fertilization (IVF) or other sources" (p. 17). Private laboratories in the United States already perform such research. Some states and foreign countries regulate it and some foreign countries forbid it. 
Why is this panel report such a big deal? First, it is the initial step toward funding and supervision of the field by 
Charles Rice 


the federal government, possibly within a year. Second, the embryos are no less human beings than are their grand­mothers. Science confirms the 1970 admission by the California Medical Association of "the scientific fact, which everyone really knows, the human life begins at conception and is continuous whether intra-or extra-uterine until death." The living offspring of human parents, at every stage, has to be human. What else could he be? As Dr. 
C. Ward Kischer, professor of anatomy at the University of Arizona College of Medicine, noted in his statement to the NIH Panel, "All of development [from fertilization] is a continuum." After con· ception, i.e., fertilization, the mother provides only nourishment and protec­tion as the child grows. 
The Panel rejected this reality: "The preimplantation human embryo ... does not have the same moral status as infants and children ... because of the absence of developmental individua­tion ... , the lack of even the possibility of sentience [ability to feel pain] and most other qualities considered relevant to the moral status of persons, and the very high rate of natural morality at this stage" (p. 77). 
Once we cut loose from the reality that the one-cell zygote, as the late geneti­cist, Dr. Jerome Lejeune, of the University of Paris, put it, is already and thereafter "a tiny human being," any effort to define the beginning of his humanity at a later point will be essen­tially arbitrary. 
"The Panel agreed that, for public pol­icy purposes, a clear time limit should be set" on experiments. But its limit was a political compromise: "While the Panel finally agreed on the appearance of the primitive streak as ... a limit to research, ... the choice of this stage rep­resents a compromise among competing viewpoints" (p. 60). The "primitive streak" is "an advancing groove that develops along the midline of the embry­onic disc ... about 14 to 15 days after fer­tilization ... [It] establishes and reveals the embryo's head-tail and left-right ori­entations" (p.107). The panel stressed that at least prior to the time, "the preimplantation embryo cannot experi­ence pain, has no brain activity, and is not conscious or self-aware" (p.48). 
If "sentience," consciousness or self­awareness is the criterion for humanity, where does that leave the severely retarded infant and the vegetative octo­genarian? The Panel's definition of some human beings as outside the human family, "for public policy purpos­es," is exactly what the Nazis did to the Jews. 
The Panel itself indicated the provi­sional character of its 14-day limit: "[F]or the present, research involving human embryos should not be permitted beyond... l4 days" {p. 79). {Emphasis added). The Panel explicitly reserved for "additional review" the question of "Research [up to] the beginning of clo­sure of the neural tube [17 to 21 days)" (p.91). 
The Panel went beyond the Nazis by approving "the use of oocytes (female eggs) fertilized expressly for research" (p.56). At least in spirit, Dr. Frankenstein is alive and well in Washington. The Panel hopes that this will not result in assembly-line produc­tion of humans for research. It said that such created-for-research human beings should be used only where "necessary for ... a study ... of outstanding... value" (p.57). And "oocytes should not be fer­tilized for research purposes because of scarcity of embryos remaining from infertility procedures nor should they be fertilized just to have a ready supply of embryos at hand or for routine purposes such as toxicology studies" (p.57). If you bet on the enduring character of that limitation, let me take your money on the Chicago Cubs. 
The Panel also left open the possibility of funding experiments on embryos cre­ated from eggs harvested from aborted female children, i.e., of "oocytes from aborted fetuses," pending an exploration of "the ethical implications... by a 
'This is a replay of the 
Genesis script, with man making himself God. And it is a replay of Nazi Germany.' 
national advisory body" (p.72). Female children in the womb already have all the eggs they will ever have. Do you want to bet that such a source of supply will remain untapped? 
With respect to research on embryos intended for transfer to a woman's womb, the Panel said: "It would ... be unacceptable to transfer ... embryos if it is reasonable to believe that children who could be born from these proce­dures may suffer harm as a result of the research" (p.80). If the child may have been injured by the research, the Panel thinks the researchers ought to destroy 
• 000NESBURY 
HI, KIIJS.' IA/tu:OM/3 7V TH& 

8YPRESIDENTIAL-PPIJCI.AMATION, 
OVE3!< 30 STATes HAVE SIGNW 
7H/9 /A/ttl< HA~ /Jt£N /?/5G/6NATW
KICK-OFF OFNATIONAL-'0/AR· 

ON 70 PROMOTe 7H!3~/X PIUA/?9 
A 7/M& TOcaaJRA7EAN/JPRtJ­
Of CHARACTER": ~~81t.I7Y,
AC-151?COIJN75"W#K! AU 

7HIG IA/t:a<, ale·-ANVMI'-W"!I'/1Htfl!>-t MflTE §HAR£P VAI..V5 ~ 
7RJ.J5TP.JOI<JHINC!35, P83PeCT,CAR­
U/Jt.l-813 t71~'./551.'N6 ~"li//;.~CJjr;R. 7V 600ll 01/IRACTEI(! 
ING, rAIRN&93//N/J{)Til£N9HIPI 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
UM... WHAT 81.19/N/395 Aaa.JT7H8 A~U5UAL.! OTH&/?.20 PAI<TYON, §!JrTeG? YOU GUYS! 
I 

\ 
him rather than allow him to be born. 
Ideas have consequences. The contra· 
ceptive ethic attempts to take the unitive 
aspect of sex without the procreative. 
IVF, the main source of "spare" 
embryos, is the reserve. In contracep­
tion, man makes himself the arbiter of 
whether and when life shall begin and of 
which lives are worth living. The NIH 
report does the same thing. 
The issue here is the dignity of the 
person. Pope John Paul's 1987 
Instruction on Bioethics stated that 
"From the time that the ovum is fertil­
l
ized, ... the life of a new human being [is begun] with his own growth. It would never be made human if it were not 
j
human already ... From the moment of conception ... his rights as a person must 
1
be recognized, among which in the first , 
place is the inviolable right of every 
innocent human being to life ... If the 
embryos are living, whether viable or 
not, they must be respected just like any 
other human person; experimentation 
on embryos which is not directly thera­
peutic is illicit [and] ... a crime against 
their dignity as human beings." (1,1; 1,4) 
See also the Catechism of the Catholic 
Church, No. 22. 
The Panel proposals are premised on 
a functional definition of the human per­
son. The eugenic State claims the right 
to decide who are human persons 
according to their ability to function, 
e.g., to experience pleasure.· If the 
youngest can be so excluded from the 
human family, so can those who, at the 
other end of life, are unable to experi­
ence pleasure sufficiently to satisfy the 
criteria of the State. This is a replay of 
the Genesis script, with man making 
himself God. And it is a replay of Nazi 
Germany. If you want to keep your 
focus here, read the Instruction on 
Bioethics and the Catechism. Share 
them with your theology professor. And 
pray for our country. 
Prof Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Monday . 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''you can get much far­
ther with a kind word and a gun than you can with a kind word alone." 
-AI Capone 
I 


page 8 Monday, October 17, 1994 
VIEWPOINT 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Church ruled by God, not people Public rationalization of 
homosexuality not neededDear Editor: mission should be to present to called to ask the role that rea­
In her "Inside Column" on Her students the Catholic Faith son does play in searching for Wednesday, Oct. 12, Suzy Fry and its central tenets. the truth. Indeed, no true rea­Dear Editor: proposed that the campus be Certainly, if we are to blindly son will ever contradict the I find myself intrigued lately by the current phenomenon that is allowed to debate sundry con­"choose" between two sides of Word of God. If, however, we occurring on campus, namely the publication of letters by people troversial issues within the an argument, the school has find that it does, we should with other-than heterosexual tendencies confessing their sexual Catholic Church. I am writing full right and license to present remember that " ... reason, even lives. I simply have never found the need to qualify and make in hope that this will help to us with Her view: Catholicism. when/supported by the senses, public my exact sexual orientation, so I wondered why these peo­open the debate concerning And certainly we have the right has short wings." -Dante, ple had. I wondered if maybe their interests lay more in orienting Catholic Church origins, to dissent from Her view. Paradiso non-gays towards understanding their viewpoints, or since they Catholic beliefs, and the role of Which brings us to the point This is apparent because rea­often listed groups where gays could meet, if this wasn't some Catholic universities. stated that "Just because my son can only be found through informal invitation to hook up or recruit 
First, it is necessary to outline beliefs do not completely agree the senses, which can deceive. So I decided that I'd join the crowd and confess my sexual ten­the foundations of Catholicism. with the Pope's ... does not The word of the Church, how­dencies-Hey, everybody, I'm a heterosexual! God, I feel good Catholicism rests itself upon mean that I am any less of a ever, is found through the Holy now that I've got that ofT my chest and out in the open so everyone several beliefs, two of which Catholic." Unfortunately, yes, it Spirit, which by its very nature knows. But wait; not only am I heterosexual, but at times I'm very include the following: flrst, that does mean that you, that I, and cannot deceive. Thus reason is non-sexual. Jesus was the Son of God, and, that we, are not only less of a fallible, whereas the Church is Walker Percy declared in his novel "Lancelot" that "the secret second, that Jesus established a Catholic if we accept this view­not, and any reason which con­meaning of life is to commit an act of sexual assault upon another Church, through Peter, that point, but we are not practicing tradicts the Church is wrong, human being." Is this true? And if it is not, then why are members would preserve His teachings Catholicism at all. Implicit incoherent, and utterly irre­of our community publishing letters asking the public if it is OK for and promote them throughout within any dissent from Church sponsible for a Catholic them to commit a sexual assault upon a member of their own sex? the centuries. This is the apos­teaching on faith and morality University to present as truth to Do I have to write in and ask if I can sleep with someone of my tolic tradition of the Church. is a principle that the Church is Her students. own sex? Should I ask anybody? And if so, isn't it better to ask a That Peter and the Apostles wrong. But by accepting the The goal of a university is to priest, or professor, or parent, or peer, or counselor, whom I may became the voice of Christ on core belief of Catholicism, one perpetuate Truth through rea­date, rather than the general public? earth can be seen in the Second rejects any tenet that the son and faith. Indeed, if any­Why the need for the confession? chapter of Acts: " ... they were Church may be wrong, for the thing, the University of Notre DAVID GORDON all filled with the Holy Spirit simple fact that it is not the Dame, as a Catholic institution, · Graduate student in theology and began to speak in other Church who speaks, but God. should be here to help us tongues." It should always be remem­understand the teachings of the 
The Apostles, in their role of bered that it is not the Church Church on all issues of Faith. perpetuating the Word of God that speaks, not ever. It is a Debate may "ooze" from every throughout time, both appoint Higher source, presented to us corner of the campus, but their successors and speak not through His Magisterium. This Truth will explode from every as voices of their own opinion, is Catholicism, for one to accept classroom. but as the Holy Spirit, for all or reject. I write this to present why the holders of the Word· of Christ Building from this, we need to Catholic Church cannot change and thus incapable of err when address for a moment Truth Her teachings, why we as they speak as the Apo-stolic and the potential to flnd it using Catholic should adhere to them, Prodigy of Christ, concerning only reason and conscience. and the role that the university faith and morality. God would not lie to us in His should play as a Catholic one. 
From this, then, one can see teachings, because lying is an The quest, at any university, is the core of Catholic Faith: faith inherent lack of good, that is, not to "debate'~ the truth, but to in Christ through His Church. lying is a lack of truth. learn the Truth. We have a Fry, in her column, comes clos­Therefore, the Church through world of dissenters, a Kingdom er to a secular and thus hereti­which God speaks states Truth, of Man before us that we cal concept: that knowledge and this we accept by faith. should not use to replace the and truth can be found with or Furthermore, when one Kingdom of God. without God. This, however, is recalls from Augustine and oth­ROGER ZALNERAITIS not a secular institution. As a ers that "Two truths can never Sophomore Catholic University, part of its contradict each other," we are Morrissey Hall 

• I AM NOT A POTTED PLANT 

Challenging Ivy elitism the Catholic way 
, 
r 
I 
I 
I ~ 
~ 
I
r 
' 
Although grottos, parietals, and rules against sex are not normal things in late twentieth century America, Notre Dame is, in many other ways, not that much different than other schools. Students everywhere write last minute papers, drink a lot of beer, and stay up until four in the morning talking about random things. There is a tension between being Notre Dame-like and being like the rest of the colleges in our country. I think that's the reason that you-faithful Observer reader that you are-keep hearing about abortion and homosexu­als. We feel like we're different from the rest of the country, and we want to know why (and how). 
Well, I'll give it a shot. I say that Notre Dame and other top Catholic schools are attempting to fashion a counter-elite. We Notre Dame students are supposed to be as smart as the kids from the Ivy League schools, as successful in our careers, and as athletic (no, better), and yet, we are supposed to be Catholic. This is supposed to make a difference. 
If you look at the admissions policies from all the top schools across the coun­try you will see a change in the past 20­30 years. The top lvys stopped admit­ting mainly cfi.ildren of alumni, and started admitting mostly on a base of native intelligence. Herrnstein and Murray, in an article in the Wall Street Journal entitled "Aristocracy of Intelligence," (October 10. 1994. p. A14), suggest that the new "elite" is more sta­ble than the old elite of money and friends, precisely because it draws from a larger number of people. It draws only the best. They say that under the old system (the old boys network), peo­ple rose and fell from high society be­cause there were lots of smart people not in the top schools, and lots of dumb guys who got in. Now, not only can the top schools draw from non-elite groups, but they can draw from ethnic mi­norities and women. The result, borne out by SAT data, is that the top college students are becoming smarter every year. 
Now consider the well-documented fact that smart boys tend to marry smart girls. Chances are good that you, being a Notre Dame student, will end up with an intelligent, college educated spouse. According to Herrnstein and Murray, scientific evidence also shows that intel­ligence is partially genetic. While this point is debatable, consider what hap­pens if they are right. 
Charl,es Roth 
have a self-propagating elite. Smart dad plus smart mom equals smart kid, who marries another smart kid, and has more smart kids. And they all go to the best schools and make the most money and have the most power. 
Herrnstein and Murray think that the inbreeding among the smartest in America will lead us away from democ­racy and equality; I think they are probably right. They ask their readers, "Who are your twelve closest friends? How many of them went to college?" It turns out that if you took a random sam­ple of Americans, the chance of half of them being college educated is about six in a thousand. i think I can fairly assume that you and I are both friends with mostly college-educated folks. Our friends affect our outlook on life. A class that mainly associates with itself loses touch with the rest of the country. That happens to us here at Notre Dame, and to the Ivy students, too. 
So consider the Ivy students who marry, and associate with, mainly smart people like themselves. They become an inbred and self-referential elite, sepa­rate from the rest of the nation. Look what happens if a politician loses re­election: he or she just gets a job work­ing for a think-tank in DC, or working as a lobbyist. It's one big flshbowl. one big connection of friends. The concerns of normal Americans get lost in the shuffie. 
It seems to me that politics usually work (especially, but not only, in a democracy) by the people selecting lead­ers from among competing elite groups. The Republicans and Democrats, for instance, are two sets of elite groups, each competing for power. How do they compete? They otTer us things we like, such as lower taxes and universal health care. Alternately, they agree or pretend to agree with our feelings about certain issues (e.g. the Republicans on abor­tion). When the group in power becomes complacent and loses touch, another party gains our support. Usually, it is the other main party; some­times, a new party rises up from noth­ingness. Maybe it will be Perot's party, or maybe some other group that we haven't yet heard of. That group will seem like a group of "the people," because they still associate with normal Americans and know how they feel. But that new group will end up with leaders who will become the elite of that group. I think it is inevitable. 
Enter Notre Dame students. We have been trained well (and I'm not talking about our ability to drink lots of beer). We can write well, and think clearly. 
We have a work ethic (I include all­nighters in that category). We can, sim­ply put, get the job done. But what job will we get done? If we go ofT to work in corporate America, whose corporation will we represent? As a law student, I come up against this all the time. Should, we represent the underprivi­leged? Should we represent the good guys? I would love to say yes, but first I have to find a job that lets me work for only the good and/or the poor. Good luck. 
So of course, we live in the real world, taking a job that pays enough to buy a house. Enough to feed the kids. enough to pay for vacation at Disney World. Is that enough for us? We are, I suppose. "American elites," by virtue of the money and resources that have been put into our education and our lives. If only on that account, we should live our lives with grander hopes in mind. But we are also, rumor has it, children of the Church. The responsibility imposed by our position as (supposedly) educated and intelligent people is made only high­er by our position as Christians. Our education and our faith should give us a perspective on life, and remind us not only of our duties, but of the billions who have lived on this earth before us, and those who will follow. 
It is not enough for us to be just kind, or just friendly, or just smart, or just decent. We are a counter-elite in this country. This means that not only should our personal lives be different. but we should hope to alter the social makeup of our country. It is up to us to help the poor, the abused, the aborted, the victims in society. If we aren't going to try to flx things, who will? 
Charles Roth is a second year law stu­dent. 


The Observer/Mark Alexion TOP: Running back Jamal Willis dives over the Irish defense for a fourth quarter score. 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
LEFT: Wide receiver Tim Nowatzke gets a celebratory boost from teammate Evan Pilgrim. 
The Observer/Mark Alexion 
ABOVE: Jamal Willis carries Irish defenders for a key first down on BYU's final scoring drive. 
Cougars knock 
Irish on the field J 


After bemgminhandled by BostOn-College l a week ago. Notre Dame was believed to be l on the road to recovery. But somewhere along the way the Irish missed the on-ramp. For the second straight week the Irish got beat in the trenches, this time dropping a 21­14 contest to the BYU Cougars at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Notre Dame hadn't lost consecutive games since falling to Penn State and Tennessee in 1991 and dropped out of the Top 25 for the first time since 1986, Lou Holtz's first year as coach. 
"We sure made some teams happy the last couple weeks," Holtz said. "Please don't ask me for answers. I don't have any." 
Notre Dame's mediocrity on the season remains a mystery left to the Monday morn­ing quarterbacks, but Saturday's loss can be attributed to the Irish's inability to score once inside the 20-yard line. Four times Notre Dame (4-3) got in the '!red zone," twice inside the ten, but came away with only a touch-
see IRISH I page 2 

• JocK STRIP 
Dazed Irish look like national chumps 
N
otre Dame is another receiving votes. 
As in, sayonara Top 

25, see ya next season. 
Or maybe a little later 
this year if... 
Don't bother. 
Does it really matter if 

Notre Dame finishes 
22nd or 27th or 31st or 
40th? 
It's all cosmetic now, and the Irish need 

some major reconstructive surgery. They 
were mangled in the car wreck that was 
Saturday's 21-14loss to Brigham Young. 
Speeding in reverse, they plunged off the 

edge of the cliff into the abyss of the aver­
age. 
This is a phenomena that has not 

occurred at Notre Dame since the days of 
Breakin' 2: Electric Boogaloo. 
These are Faustian foibles. 
Ranked 30th in this week's Associated 
Press poll, the Irish find themselves look­

ing up at such gridiron greats as Duke, 
North Carolina State and Virginia. 

see KELLY I page 3 
. ~·------­

Monday, October 17, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA page2 

Irish waste opportunities 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Spons Editor 

The difference in Notre Dame's loss to Brigham Young was not the inability of the defense to hold the Cougars to less than 21 points. A Western Athletic Conference team scoring such a low total happens about as often as the sun comes out in December in South Bend. 
Rather, the Irish offense can once again be blamed for this loss. Two straight weeks of being unable to put the ball in the end zone has led to two straight wins for their opponents. 
The Irish were inside the Cougars' 20­yard line on four different occassions. They scored only once. 
"Having success inside the 20 is a matter of toughness," Irish fullback Marc Edwards said. "We were just out-toughed today." 
Less than three minutes into the game, Notre Dame scored to put them up 7-0. They immediately pounced on a fumble on the ensuing kickoff at the Cougar 11.. 
Notre Dame drove the ball down to the BYU 3-yard line, but they were then pushed back to the Cougar 19. Stefan Schroffner then proceeded to push his field goal attempt wide right. 
"You have to score when you have the opportunity," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. 
Schroffner missed another field goal besides his first quarter failure, and Scott Cengia had an attempt blocked in the third quarter. 
"We just didn't make any plays," Holtz continued. "We didn't make anything hap­pen." 
Either that, or the Cougars turned it up a notch when it was desperately needed. 
BYU sacked Powlus four times and had him on the run all day. The thorough beat­ing that the quarterback took forced him to leave the game with a slight concussion in the fourth quarter. 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
down. 

That was easily the difference in the game. BYU {6-1) scored on both of it's chances inside the 20, one being Jamal Willis 2-yard scoring run in the opening seconds of the fourth quarter which proved to be the game-winner. 
The pass-happy Cougars used the ground as effectively as the air. Willis fmished with 75 yards on 18 carries to go with 83 yards receiving. 
"We felt like we had to be able to run the ball," BYU coach LaVell Edwards said of his offense which totaled 104 yards rushing. 
Even more key than the Cougars offensive balance {John Walsh, 17 -of-30 for 216 yards passing) was BYU's front seven on defense. Notre Dame quarter­back Ron Powlus was sacked four times and took a number of big hits. The biggest came late in the fourth quarter which knocked the Irish signal-caller from the game. 
Powlus suffered a concussion and a deep bruise on his left shoulder. He looked dazed on the sidelines and watched as sophomore Tom Krug at­tempted to guide the Irish on a game­saving drive with 1:36 remaining. 
It was a chance gifted on the Irish by a Mark Atuaia fumble, the fifth of the game for the Cougars, in what looked like a reoccurring attempt to give the game back to the Irish. 
But without Powlus, Notre Dame's offense never got the chance to sputter inside the 20. Krug followed a 19-yard pass to tight end Oscar McBride and an 11-yard strike to Derrick Mayes with four straight incompletions. 
"We had the chances," Holtz said. "If we're going to be a marginal team, as 

The Observer/Mark Alexion Ron Powlus releases a pass just before being hit by a BYU defender. 
The Cougars also held Notre Dame to only 115 yards rushing. Sophomore Randy Kinder saw his streak of four consecutive 100-yard rushing games snapped with only an 86-yard performance. 
"They had far too much penetration," Holtz said. "You can't play with players on your side of the line." 
Holtz's experiment of changing around the offensive line payed immediate divi­dends, as the team scored on its first pos­session. 
But it was all downhill from there. The Irish were overpowered by a tougher BYU defensive line, one which had been much maligned, but turned in a big performance Saturday. 
"They did nothing different (on defense) than expected," Holtz said. "We just didn't have the consistency." 
But consistency is not the only answer. 
Playing tough goes hand-in-hand. in new positions. Only left tackle Hollywood, Fla.  
we are now, we've got to take advan­tage of the chances." Notre Dame's offensive woes were again based on the line. Only tackle Mike McGlinn started at the position he played last week and David Quist made his first career start. The experiment looked like a success on Notre Dame's opening drive, a 62 yard, six-play gem, capped by Randy Kinder's 41-yard scoring jaunt. The drive gave Kinder a jump on another 100-yard rushing day, but he finished with 82 yards on 21 attempts which ended a four-game run over the century mark. After a few stalled drives and bobbled snaps, the offensive line was shifted back to its original alignment in the sec­ ond quarter. The unit clicked in the at the BYU three, the Irish failed to gain closing minutes of the half when Powlus on two runs and Powlus was sacked on hit Mayes for a 13-yard touchdown, set third down. Scott Cengia's 39-yard field up by Mayes 55-yard sideline reception goal attempt was then blocked. to the Cougar 20 .. Walsh led the Cougar's on 77-yard "We just had some trouble getting scoring drive on the ensuing possession some consistency," Holtz said. which included five rushes by Willis for While the Irish were hitting peaks and 43 yard. valleys, BYU cruised along on a steady plain. David Lauder kicked field goals of "I thought one of the keys in the game 48 and 49 yards to counter Notre was right after their drive in the third Dame's opening drive. And then Walsh quarter," Edwards said. "Our defense hit Willis for a 19-yard score to give the was a little spent at that time, but we . Cougars a 13-7 lead midway through went in and kept the ball and scored." the second quarter. It was another baffiing turn of events for Holtz who not only was short of Leading 14-13 midway through the answers but still searching for a team. third quarter, Notre Dame mounted an "All I want to do is get a football team 18-play, 64 yard drive that lasted over and win a game." eight minutes. But despite first-and-goal  
C  LINEBACKERS C Pass coverage was poor as was tackling. Whole defense made Willis look like Marshall Faulk, but linebackers get the blame when short runs turn into first downs.  
SECONDARY C With the exception of Brian Magee's fumble causing hit the tack­ling was poor. The LaRon Moore experiment was a bust. Bobby Taylor's hand injury is a problem.  
SPECIAL TEAMS D "'"''or<•no was horrendous and Michael Miller's absence hurt game. Two field goals missed, one blocked, didn't we beat with our special teams?  
D answers but isn't it his job to enough wakeup call? up for grabs. Play  
Two weeks under a 2.0. This is Patricia O'Hara meet­ing, take some classes at Holy Cross and reapply next fall.  
-GEORGE DOHRMANN  

By JASON KELLY 
Associate Spons Editor 

So you want to go bowling? 
It's still a possibility, though in this year's bowl picture Notre Dame will be little more than a spare. 
The Irish (4-3) need only to win three more games to be guaranteed a spot in one of the four major New Year's Day bowls-the Orange, the Sugar, the Cotton or the Fiesta. 
Seven once seemed a laughably low number of wins to warrant an appearance in a big bowl. Now, it's a mark Notre Dame is scraping to reach. 
If both the bowl and school agree, the Irish could play in a major bowl with only six victories. 
But the way the Irish played Saturday, there are no guarantees. New Year's Day is still a ways away. 
POWLUS POPPED: Fretting for their son's health, Ron Powlus' par­ents huddled with team doctors out­side the Irish locker room after Saturday's game. 
They were assured that his injury, listed as a mild concussion, was not even serious enough to warrant a trip to the hospital. 
But it was serious enough to keep him on the bench for Notre Dame's final drive. 
Backup quarterback Tom Krug, playing the first significant minutes of his career, directed the Irish drive which stalled at midfield. 
CH-CH-CH CHANGES: Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz indicated all week that he would make wholesale per­sonnel changes and Saturday he proved it. 
Most altered was the offensive line, where four of the five starters were Mike McGlinn stayed where he start­ed last week. 

Dusty Zeigler, considered Notre Dame's best lineman, moved to cen­ter, while Ryan Leahy took over his vacated left guard spot. Jeremy Akers and David Quist started on the right side of the line. 
Holtz admitted that it would be risky to make the moves at this point in the season, but he also acknowl­edged that something had to be done to cure his team's woes. 
"We came close to not making (the changes)," Holtz said. "The main rea­son we made the changes was to get a little more movement and a little more strength." 
OSCAR'S OVATION: Oscar McBride became the first Irish tight end since the season-opener against Northwestern to make a reception. 
He caught a pair of passes Saturday, for 30 yards. 
His first catch brought a mock cheer from the Irish fans, many of whom often complain about Holtz's limited use of the tight end as a receiver. 
KINDER HINDERED: Irish running back Randy Kinder rushed for 82 yards Saturday, snapping his streak of four consecutive 100-yard games. 
Half of those yards came on a 41­yard touchdown run in the first quar­ter. 
Senior Lee Becton holds the Notre Dame record with seven straight games over the century mark. 
A KICK IN THE PANTS: Holtz told a luncheon audience Friday that the Irish received a verbal committment from one of the nation's hottest high school kicking prospects. 
NCAA rules forbid him from men­tioning the player's name, but it is believed to be Kevin Kopka of 

~----------------------------~---· 
page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Monday, October 17, 1994 
Notre Dame still searching for answers. • • 
All positions up for grabs as Irish try and find solution 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Sporn Editor 
It's a word that players, coaches, and fans alike hate to hear. It's a feeling that nobody can stomach with any sense of ease. But right now, losing is the defining word of the Notre Dame football team. 
The Irish were embarrassed two 
weeks ago when Boston College sent 
them home with their tails between 
their legs, defeating them 30-11. 
But a good firm resolve on the part of the coaching staff and a pledge for a better performance from the players led 
The Observer/David Hungeling 
many to believe that Brigham Young ­
Derrick Mayes tries to avoid Jon Pollock on his 55-yard reception in the second quarter. 
would not just be beaten on Saturday, but blown into little tiny bits. Holtz continued. "I don't have any. I Cougars. But this losing monkey again jumped wish I did." "Things have gotten away from how 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

on the Irish players' backs, refusing to This feeling of helplessness was pretty they should be, in terms of good, hard 
The Irish have to find a way to protect
let go. It bit the hands of Notre Dame much the general consensus of the football," inside linebacker Justin 
quarterback Ron Powlus. 
players as they touched the "Play like a entire team. Goheen said. "We're playing hard. 
Irish defensive coordinator Bob Davie
Champion" sign in the Irish locker room. "We worked hard in practice," senior we~re just not getting the job done." 
said. "My concern is how this football
And it weighed heavily on their shoul­tailback Lee Becton said. "I don't know As the Irish confidence waned, BYU's 
team will bounce back. We will need
ders as they trudged off the field what's wrong. I can't put my fmger on gained momentum. 
these next two weeks to prepare mental­
Saturday, trying to deal with a 21-14 it." "All we found at halftime was that we 
ly and physically."
loss at the hands of the Cougars. Even the defense lacked the enthusi­could beat these guys," Cougar head 
Holtz has said that the two weeks of
The loss dropped the Irish to 4-3, the asm that carried them to Notre Dame's coach LaVell Edwards said. "We didn't 
preparation for Navy will be a spring
worst Notre Dame has stood record-wise last victory over Stanford, a win that come here to play a good game. We 
practice atmosphere, with players fight­
at this point in the season since 1986, seems to have happened ages ago. came here to win." 
ing for jobs just like they do during the
Lou Holtz's first year as head coach of "Bone Awards," acknowledgements Teams once thought it impossible to 
off-season.
Notre Dame. They were 3-4 by week for a big hit by an Irish player, were beat the Irish. The team's mystique and 
"It's a time like this where we reaturm 
seven at that time. common during Notre Dame's winning tradition always preceeded them wher­
our commitment from a coaching and a
"Nobody wants to go through this," ways, when they actually beat an oppo­ever they played. Now, Notre Dame is 
player standpoint," Davie continued.
Holtz said. "All I want to do is win." nent physically. just another team receiving votes. Or 
"We will get this worked out." 
But winning isn't that easy when you Saturday, the only bones the defense rather, another heatable team deserving 
Hard work and more commitment are
can't fmd the remedy to the problems. could pick up were the ones that were votes. 
small prices to pay to get a losing mon­
"Please don't ask me for answers," knocked out of them by the fearless "BYU is a heck of a football team," 
key off your back. 

• STATISJJCS  
SCORE BY QUARTERS Brigham Young Notre Dame  3 7  10 7  0 0  8 0  21 14  
TEAMSTATS FirsiOowns Rushes-Yards Passing Yards Comp-Atl-lnt Relurn Yards Punts·Avg Fumbles·Losl Penalties-Yards Possession Time  BYU 20 37,104 216 17·31-1 6<None>2 3·41-0 5-3 4·25 29:14  NO 18 46·115 242 14·28·1 54 4·42.5 3·1 6-51 30:46  
INDIVIDUAL STATS  

RUSHING -Notre Dame: Kinder 21-82 TO, Edwards Hl--73. Seeton 5-15, Powlus 10 (minus 55). Brigham Young: Willis 18-75 TO, Heimull10·21. Atuaia 1-10, Walsh 8·(minus 2)­

FIRST QUARTER 
Notre Dame 7, Brigham Young 0 (6 plays, 62 yards, 2:45) 12:15-Randy Kinder ran 41 yards for a touchdown (Stefan Schroffner PAT). Key Play: When BYU deferred after winning the coin toss, giving Notre Dame the ball to start the game. 
Notre Dame 7, Brigham Young 3 (6 plays, 15 yards, 1 :17) 3:44-David Lauder kicked a 49­yard field goal. Key Play: A pass 
interference call on LaRon Moore gave BYU a first down at the Notre Dame 28. 
SECOND QUARTER 
Notre Dame 7, Brigham Young 6 (13 plays, 55 yards, 5:09) 7:22-Lauder connected on a 48­yard field goal. Key Play: John Walsh sneaked for a yard on fourth down to keep the Cougar drive alive. 
PASSING-Notre Oame: Powlus 12·22·212·1 TO, Krug 2·6·30·0. Brigham Young: Walsh 17·30-216-1 TD,Heimuli0-1-0·0. 
RECEIVING • Notre Dame: Stafford 4-80, Mayes 3·73 
TO. Edwards 2·45, McBride 2·30. Champion 1-16, 
Kinder 1·12. Mosley 1·6. Brigham Young: Wims 5·83 
TO, Mill 3·26, Nowatzke 3·25. Doman 2-44, Lewis 2· -15, Heimulll-14, Johnston 1·9. 
TACKLES -Notre Dame: Moore 7. Sample 7, Wynn 7, Gibson 7. Goheen 7 (1 fum. rec.), Saddler 4. Magee 4 (1 Int.), Taylor 3, Wooden 3, Nau 3, Berry 3, Hamitton 3 (1 fum. rec.). Grasmanis 3. Wagasy 2, Tatum 1, Davis 1, Maiden 1 (1 sack), Mitoulas 1 (1 fum. rec.). McBride 1, Dansby 1, Leahy 1, Akers 1. Brigham Young: Pollock 8 (1 sack), Muirbroo1< 6 (1 Int.. 1 sack), Hall 4 (1 sack). S. Raass 4, Albrecht 4. Brock 3 (1 sack), Sampson 3. Sleele 3. Uluale 2. J. Raass 2, Mitchell 2, Hale 2, Cook 2. Merkley 1, Haggins 1, 
Cooper 1, Lewis 1 (1 kick block), Edwards (11um. rec). 
Brigham Young 13, Notre Dame 7 (6 plays, 45 yards, 2:07) 2:59-Walsh hit Jamal Willis with a 19-yard scoring pass (Lauder PAT). Key Play: On third down, Willis car­ried three Irish defenders for a first down at the Notre Dame 18. 
Notre Dame 14, Brigham Young 13 
(7 plays, 74 yards, 2:25) 0:34-Ron Powlus hit Derrick Mayes at the edge of the endzone with a seven-yard scoring strike (SchroffnerPAT). Key Play: Powlus hit Mayes for 55 yards to the BYU 
20. Is there any catch he can't make? 
FOURTH QUARTER 

Brigham Young 21, Notre Dame 14 (13 plays, 77 yards, 5:20) 14:57-Willis leaped over the line for a one-yard score (Walsh to Hema Heimuli for the two-point con­version). Key Play: Willis ran for 20 yards to the Notre Dame 38. 
Kelly 
continued from page 1 
------=--=-----------­
When the Atlantic Coast Conference has that many teams ranked ahead of Notre Dame, it better be in basketball or lacrosse. 
And how about Purdue, ranked 28th, with twice as many points as the Irish in the current poll? 
Not since the end of the 1986 season-that's 85 regular-season games-has Notre Dame fallen this far. 
Ironically, it happened six years to the day after the Irish reclaimed their spot among col­lege football's elite with a celebrated 31-30 win over Miami on October 15, 1988. 
Those flne football forecasters at the Sporting News, who defied all logic and picked the Irish to be the national champs again in 1994, are probably schlepping Schweppes at 7 -Eleven by now. 
Beaten up by Boston College and bruised by Brigham Young, Notre Dame looked more like national chumps. 
Quarterback and punching bag Ron Powlus, the battered beneficiary of a broken offensive line, left Saturday's game counting the stars -­hovering around his head. 
His helmet hit the turf so often that he was forced to sit out Notre Dame's final drive be­cause of a mild concussion. 
He staggered off the field with the No. 3 on the front of his jersey pulled up around his shoulder pads, and loss No.3 imminent. 
It was a moment symbolic of the current state of the Notre Dame football team, a unit more dazed and confused than Robert Plant could ever be. 
They searched for solutions to the worst cri­sis in almost a decade. 
A week after their resolve had been so strong, Notre Dame's players and coaches sounded flat-out stumped. 
A week after being happy about the hurt, Irish coach Lou Holtz wished he could ease his players' pain. 
And eight years after falling this far, he didn't know the path back to the top. "Please don't ask me for answers," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "I don't have any." 
j 
____, 


Monday,October 17, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 4 
-
The Observer/Mark Alexion A pass falls past the outstretched arms of BYU receiver Bryce Doman. 

Monday, October 17, 1994 page9
VIEWPOINT 
• 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

• 
Poco A Poco 


Little things make every world go 'round 
A rooster crows at six o'clock-before the sun comes up. Before my alarm clock goes off. It is morning in Cuernavaca, Mexico and without fail Evelia has breakfast waiting. Nothing fancy. Fresh fruit-usually papia or mango-bread, coffee. Even at 7:30 
a.m. she is ready to talk. Do I think it will rain today? Did I finish my home­work? I am still half asleep so she doesn't push. She and I have lived together in the same house for six weeks-she cooks acitos, sopes, que­sidillas and other fabulous Mexican dishes; she makes sure I have hot water; she keeps the cockroaches to a mini­mum-and we are just now beginning to really know each other. Evelia, my "mama Mexican a," doesn't speak a word of English. And still she doesn't seem to notice that I have the Spanish comprehension of a three-year-old. She talks to me incessantly, and I try to hang on. 
My fellow Holy Cross Associates, Katie Bergin and Scott Curtis, and I have six weeks left in Cuernevaca where we are studying Spanish and preparing for two years of post-graduate service work in Chile. It has been a fascinating, albeit frustrating, experience watching our knowledge of Spanish grow during our time here. We have witnessed an evolu­tion from stuttering fragment-"! go now"-to basic, but at least more com­plete, sentences-"Generally, after school I return to my house to eat"-to the exhilarating escape from the present tense to the past and future. What a joy to be able to explain, "We didn't go to the store before lunch, but we are going to go after dinner," still stuttering of course. Some days it feels like we make tremendous progress. Usually we won­der if we will ever graduate from the first grade. But what has been even more fascinating has been watching our relationships grow-often in spite of this language barrier. How is it possible, we asked ourselves when we first got here, to reveal ourselves and our personalities to others if we can't speak freely and openly in a common language? How can we tell jokes and be witty? How can we show compassion? How will they know anything about us? How will we 
Meredith 
McCullough 


ever make friends? 
Every day surprises me a little bit more. I think Evelia is one of the most animated, energetic women I have ever met. She loves to laugh. She loves to have fun. She loves to dance. And she cares very much for her family and those around her. I know all this although I usually don't know exactly what she is saying. I know this because of her expressions, because of her actions, and because she has taken me to several weddings and a discoteque. It is similar with the teachers at our lan­guage school. Carlos is a jokester, Pepe is a music-driven, free spirited romantic. Elivia is a surrogate mom with a real gift for calming her frantic students. Again, I know this more from their 
actions than any words they have ever spoken to me. I often wonder what they see when they look at us. Do they see a shy girl who is afraid of making mistake after mistake, or can they see past that? Is the person who my Notre Dame friends knew still visible? Can they see all my gifts as clearly as I see theirs? I can't be sure. In spite of these nagging questions, however, the fact remains that we have made contact with our teachers, classmates and families. Contact that brings with it some degree of comfort and hope. And still, I can't help but wonder how this fits in with the next two years of my life in Chile doing service work It all seems so far away. Surely none of us expected to come to Latin America to "save the world." Rather it seems we were driven by a very real decision to grapple with understanding-understanding of a dif­ferent culture and way of life, as well as understanding of poverty and the poor in our communities. And yet studying here can be a somewhat paralyzing experience. We signed on to do "ser­vice" and we have found ourselves in beautiful houses with beautiful families. We have hot water (usually), and we are served nourishing food three times a day. We have teachers and companions who make every attempt to throw us into the Mexican culture, who listen patiently no matter how long it takes us to complete a sentence. Everything and everyone around us is a gift, and as those who come before us promised, we have learned to say "gracias" earnestly and often. We walk downtown to visit the Cathedral or to exchange travelers' checks, and as in any city we cannot escape the poverty. We cannot avoid 
the barefoot children selling packs of gum in the street or the elderly men and women with their hand-made baskets and hand-painted ceramic goods selling for heartbreakingly low prices. 
The gulf between us is huge; more huge still because we have not yet learned to communicate well. Not only do we feel powerless to do anything, but we cannot begin to understand their sit­uation. We do not live among them. We do not know who they are. It is difficult to remember that learning Spanish is the first step to the complete experience. I am impatient. It is difficult to remem­ber that we are not really idle, and that this frustration is part of a beginning to understand. Each of us is anxious to get to Chile, to get settled in our community and get to work like the Associates in 
U.S. cities who have been struggling for about two months now in Adult Day Care Centers, in agencies for sexually and physically abused children, and other organizations. 
And all the while we are still prepar­ing. We are still learning Spanish. But in reality, what we are learning here in Cuernevaca is more than a language. We are learning the importance of the little things: of a smile, of an embrace, of a kind word-no matter how simple. We are in the beginning stages of our "relationship classes" where there are no tests, but hours and hours of home­work every day. The breakfast table is my classroom, and Evelia and the others are quite remarkable professors. 
Meredith McCullough. '94. is a Holy Cross Assosciate based in Santiago. Chile. Her column appears monthly. 
ND not the place for 'parasites' 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to the crit­icisms thrown at Erin Kish's letter in regards to Mayo Angelou's visit. It seems as though this discord between the women of Saint Mary's and Erin Kish has become more than an issue about Mayo Angelou. 
As a male at Notre Dame my judg­ment is not clouded by the social ten­sion between the women of Saint Mary's and the women of Notre Dame. As far as I can see if the bit­terness between the two groups is escalating and not only divides the women involved, but the men also. 
The relationship seems to be extremely parasitic. We allow the 
Saint Mary's an inclusive community? 
Dear Editor: 
As a junior at Notre Dame, I was delighted to see the issue of ND/SMC student interaction addressed in Je~nifer Green and Lisa fortman's let­ter "Ignorance strains ND/SCMC rela­tions" (Thurs., Oct. 13). I appreciated the fallacies that were addressed regarding the Maya Angelou lecture, although I do not understand why a greater effort was not made by the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board in securing a large auditorium in the community, since "the event was a gift to the community." Who exactly is this "entire community"? And is Notre Dame a part of it? 
Green and Fortman deserve an 
apology for feeling as if comments 
directed in Erin Kish's letter were 
"malicious" and bitter. In your own 
words, "by drawing upon the unique 
qualities that each (ND and SMC) 
have to offer, all are able to learn and 
grow ... " Traditionally ND and SMC 
have coexisted within the Notre Dame women of Saint Mary's to attend our classes, partake in our entertainment activities, and experience the spirit of Notre Dame. I do realize that Saint Mary's pays the SUB fee, but money is not the issue here. 
The fact remains, that those who are attending Notre Dame deserve to be here because of intelligence, abili­ty, and effort, not because of money. Notre Dame continuously gives to Saint Mary's only to be shunned and neglected in consideration of attend­ing Angelou's visit. All we ask for is a little courtesy by making their tickets as available to us as we make ours available to them. We advertise and openly invite Saint Mary's students to 
···~ 
community, giving SMC students the chance to participate in Notre Dame events and vice versa. We should never forget that we have been given the unique opportunity of interacting between the schools. 
As far as the cost of the football tickets, well, I have no idea why they charge SMC students more. Maybe it' s because the administration feels sorry for us ND students who have to pay a ton more for tuition. But please don't blame the ND students for these complaints about inequality, because I think the Maya Angelou incident enjoy our University events. Is their thanks to us overt bitterness and ani­mosity as displayed in letters to Kish? 
She was simply curious as to the availability of these tickets and the response to her curiosity was filled with skepticism and defensiveness. My suggestion to the women of Saint Mary's is to look at Notre Dame with appreciation instead of contempt. Saint Mary's should enjoy what is given to them and try not to take Notre Dame's numerous opportuni­ties for granted. 
M.S. SEBASTIAN BROWN 
Sophomore Fisher Hall 
clearly displayed that we are not equal, since priority for tickets was given to SMC students. 
Green and Fortman note that "friendship is not based upon the thing one gets in return." Nobody at Notre Dame was looking for a "return" with regard to the Maya Angelou lecture. We were just look­ing for a fair shot to participate in the SMC event. After all, aren't friend­ships supposed to be give and take? 
KATRINA WORMAN 
Senior 
Pangborn Hall 
Time to stop victimization 
Dear Editor: 
The recent assaults on Notre Dame students in the Northeast Neighborhood have once again highlighted potential dangers in our area. 
Our natural reaction is probably to turn our backs and avoid our neighborhood. We would like to suggest, however, that the Notre Dame community reach out and work towards edu­cating both the students and the neighborhood residents to prevent crime instead of becoming its victims. 
We would like to invite any interested stu­dents, faculty, and staff to a Northeast Neighborhood Public Safety Meeting. The assaults as well as other crime issues will be discussed. It will be held on tonight at 6 p.m. in 
.. 

the Northeast Neighborhood Center which is located at 803 N. Notre Dame Avenue. 
We look forward to working with members of both the Notre Dame and South Bend commu­nities to educate and to protect all individuals in the Northeast Neighborhood. 
KAREN DUBAY 

Northeast Neighborhood Service Learning Coordinator 
PHIL BOELTER 

Be street s01art 
Dear Editor: 
SafeWalk urges students to make use of its service, particularly in light of the recent rob­beries by Eck Tennis Pavillion and Notre Dame Avenue. There is absolutely no need for any­one to walk alone at night. SafeWalk is on call from 8:00 p.m.-2:30 a.m. (at other times ND Security will provide escorts). 
We are happy to walk students anywhere on campus. SafeWalk responds to most calls with­in 5 minutes with no questions asked. We don't care who you are, where you are going, or what you are doing, SafeWalk just wants to make sure you arrive safely at your destination. For those of you who have a set schedule, SafeWalk has a Frequent Walker Program which provides you regularly with an escort without having to call. Why walk alone? Just Call extension 4-BLUE (4-2583). 
ERIN KING 
TIM SULLIVAN 
Safe Walk Co-Coordinators 

ACC~NT 
page 10 Monday, October 17, 1994 
..,. 
• STRAIGHT 0UTTA 'WAKA 

Hong Kong 
and the 
Hamburglar 
This is the "Leprechaun III" part to a three-part series. When I last left you, the iron princess, known as the USS Cleveland, was sailing towards Hong Kong, courtesy of NROTC. My mission, according to Pentagon offi­cials, was to find the creator of the short-lived sitcom "ALF, " who had been kid-AccemColumnist napped by a Chinese com­mercial fishing mob, and bring him back to his family. Much to the chagrin of the Navy, I could not locate him, but Hong Kong proved to be enthralling nonetheless. 
Ahoy! As the Steamin' Cleve pulled up to the pier, I waved at the natives. Standing on the pier were two little girls who held a banner that read, "Welcome to Hong Kong, Kris Kazlauskas. We hope you have a very good time here. Our country loves your newspaper columns. Viva Mishawaka!" I had to admit that the emotion of the situation was too much to handle, and I swooned. Regaining consciousness an hour later, I set foot on land along with several other midshipmen (i.e. Navy kids). 
The first thing that one must be aware of in Hong Kong is the exchange rate. At about 7.7 Hong Kong dollars to one U.S. dollar, the prices can appear frightening. Seeking a familiar face in this strange land, I happened upon a McDonald's. The ceramic Hamburglar in the window beckoned me, and not being a fan of Chinese food, I paid homage to this burger-steal­ing, fry guy-taunting, robble-robbling icon of Western civilization. I was with three other guys at the time, and must admit that I thought Hamburglar had robbed me when I paid sixty four dollars for three value meals and a small Coke. In the end, it turned out to be cheaper than in the states (I'll let you do the math.). 
However, bargains do not come without paying the price somewhere else. Being true advocates of the assembly line, this particular McDonald's even had a pickle-slice guy, and they cranked out hundreds of burgers in advance. What this meant was that my burger had been waiting for me before we even pulled into port. This time span is long enough for a Big Mac to not only get cold, but time enough for the meat to osmotically suck the life out of helpless lettuce shreds. The only part of the burger that withstood the test of time was the secret sauce, which doubled as an epoxy, enabling me to lift the entire burger by the top bun. For the curious, I should mention that ordering is not difficult because you simply point to what you want. I found that this was where my ability to mime came in handy. 
In addition to a strict, McDonald's Mcdiet, I found time for a little sightseeing too. This included trips to 7-11. As a coke addict, I fed my habit with Big Gulps. However, I had the misfor­tune of spilling a little bit of the liquid gold on the floor, and the store clerk, as if exorcising a demon, started screaming, "OUT! OUT!" Fearing a terrible martial arts display that would leave me bloody and bruised amidst a soy sauce dis­play, I ran out the door. 
The only time I veered away from the golden arches was when I ate at a restaurant called the Spaghetti House. This place was an attempt by Chinese people to create Italian food for English­speaking people. Centered in a country at­mosphere, this Chinese chuckwagon hoe-down featured servers who seemingly designed their uniforms by watching an episode of Hee-Haw. 
Entertained by a waiter with a name tag that said, "Hello, my name is HANDSOME," We ate pizza that was no thicker than a triscuit. I thanked Handsome for an enchanting evening, and vowed to stick with Grimace and friends. 
In retrospect, I did little more than eat while in Hong Kong, though I took pictures of the places where I ate. I brought back a plethora of wooden gifts for the family because they smelled like they came from the Orient, and I filled the little knapsack in my heart with oodles of memories. Looking back, I can truly say that the trip from San Diego to Hong Kong was not just a job, it was an adventure. 

Students share football with Best Buddies 
By THOMAS KANE 
Accent Writer 

Would having a "Buddy" to watch Saturdays disappointing loss to BYU with have made the game a little more bearable? Notre Dame senior Mike Shea certainly thinks so. 
Shea is one of ten students partici­pating in conjunction with the Logan ·Center in South Bend in the Best 
Buddies program. 
Started four years ago, the pro­gram matches up students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's with mentally or physically disabled individuals for "long standing" relationships, accord­ing to Kristin Garvey, Recreation and Leisure Coordinator at Loga~ Center. 
Each fall applications are accepted from the community for the Best Buddies program, one of four pro­grams sponsored by Logan Center , that attempts to integrate disabled people into society. 
About sixteen students end up par­ticipating in the program, which involves a year or more commitment to a client of Logan center. 
"[We're looking] for students who are in it for the long term. It's one of our more serious commitments ... hurt feelings are possible," said Anne Lagormarcino, volunteer coordinator at Logan. 
Besides an annual trip to a Notre Dame football game, the students and their Buddies participate in other group events such as bowling and dances 
However, what makes the program successful is the individual attention that each student provides to their counterpart from Logan. Each stu­dent calls or writes their Buddy at least once every week, and plans a get together at least twice a month. 
This may seem quite a re­sponsibility, but for those willing to make that commitment, the Best Buddies program can prove to be an invaluable experience for both par­ties. 
The program benefits the disabled individual. "Its good for their self esteem to develop a constant friend­ship. Often they know only a boss or a social worker," said Shea. 
"They like coming to Notre Dame. They like getting out and being with others and treated as equals," said Katy Gorman, a Notre Dame senior in the program. 
"They brag about it and tell their friends at work," said Lagormarcino. 
Besides breaking up the routine of the disabled individual and giving them a friend to talk to, the program also provides an invaluable experi­ence for the student "Buddy." 
''I've learned a lot about myself and people with [disabilities]." said Shea. 
"Students learn that they're more the same than different," said Lagormacino. 
/ 
The skills required to be a Buddy are the same as those for any friend­ship: patience, compassion and com­mitment-and maybe, most impor­tantly, initiative. 
Gorman, a senior in the American Studies Program, said getting the ini­tial relationship started was the hard­est part. 
"I was nervous. I wasn't sure what to expect," said Gorman. 
However, after the initial ice break­er of watching a basketball game in Gorman's dorm room, the friendship blossomed. 
These friendships are built, as they were with Logan Resident Elizabeth Wabol and her Buddy, through activi­ties such as visiting the grotto to "light candles," or going out to dinner and "baking cookies" -activities many students take for granted but can mean the world to these individu­als. 
Wabol's experience has made her wish that all her friends Logan had buddies. 
"My friend Kevin wants a buddy, but doesn't have one," said Wabol. 
"There are stacks of people waiting for buddies," commented Lagoramacino. 
Despite the challenges these rela­tionships present, students generally seem pleased with the experience. 
"I like feeling appreciated," said Gorman. Would these students recommend it to others? 
"Definitely.. .It is a great opportunity to learn about self. It has been the most outstanding experience I've had since I've been here," said Shea. 
More the same than different? 
Maybe Shea's Logan buddy Ricky Hawkins, who finds the expensive concession stand food and bicycling through game traffic slightly bother­some, captures best the true mean­ing of friendship. 
"I go out [to the games] because Mike doesn't like to go out there by himself," said Hawkins, ''I'm a Bears fan." 

Quilt records college's history 
By NORA MEANY Accent Writer 
The Saint Mary's College Community Quilt clearly reflects the Sesquicentennial theme, "Honoring Tradition, Pioneering Change," by borrowing from the age-old art of quilting. 
This craft is often associated with women's creativity and nurturing, as well as its community history where quilters came together to contribute to a larger whole, according to the Sesquicentennial Campaign for Saint Mary's College. 
"The Saint Mary's College Community Quilt is a permanent record not only of it's Sesquicentennial Celebration year, but it's thriving community of stu­dents, faculty, staff, alumnae, and friends." said Marcia Rickard, the Chair of the Sesquicentennial Quilt Exhibition Committee. 
The quilt, which is presently hang­ing on display at the Cushwa­Leighton Library, measures eight feet by ten feet, and consists of eighty panels. These panels were sewn by Saint Mary's Alumnae, as well as pre­sent students, faculty, administrators and friends of the college. 
The quilt symbolizes the many happy and spiritual memories that have made up the Saint Mary's Community for the past one hundred and fifty years. 
A bounded notebook holds letters from some of the contributors explaining the significance behind their panels. The squares vary in technique and design, but every square has one thing in common: each was created out of memories so dear and precious that they had to be preserved for all to see. 

"It contains memories of places and people, of yesterday and today," said Ricard. "It is a true reflection of com­munity." 
The quilt honors an institution which has influenced and continues to effect our lives in diverse ways. It shows fine patchwork and applique and less traditional techniques, all age groups and abilities, according to 
Photo Courtesy of Saint Maly's Sesquicenlllnnlal Cornrnla.e 
the Sesquicentennial Quilt Exhibition Committee. 
Volunteers, Ruth Pedevilla and Dorothy Quinlan, sewed the squares together to make the final master­piece. Although neither woman had attended Saint Mary's, both have had family members graduate, and are vigorously involved with the school. In addition, both also created a square for the quilt themselves. 
The presentation of the quilt coin­cided with the official announcement by Saint Mary's President William Hickey to launch the $30 million Sesquicentennial Campaign. 


NOTICES 
NEED HELP WRITING? Manuscript preparation by experi­enced editor. Free pick-up and delivery. 293-9170 or FAX 522­4109. 
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES Pandora's Books 233-2342 NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/10-6 Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store 
Downtown book wholesaler seeks warehouse workers Flexible hours & wkend work available 232-8500 X22 ask for Bryan 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST STUDENT 1.0. NEAR GATE 15 ON SAT. 10/1. REWARD. CALL 287-4546. THANK YOU. 
••••• $50 REWARD ••••• For the RETURN of or information leading to the RETURN of two CO's: Pearl Jam "No F---in' Messiah" and Nirvana "All Acoustically". Please call 272­4021. 
Lost a silver adjustable ring with arabic inscriptions on it. Great per­sonal significancance. Maybe lost in the vincinity of thelibrary. Contact Chris X-1868 
Found: Bike-lock key 
October 12 9:00pm 
between Farley and NOH 
call Eric x1087 
FOUNDIII Reading glasses accom­
panied with a turquoise(sp?) 
colored glass case. Found just out­
side the ROTC building. Please 
Call 'Dog at x1670 
or the D.O.C. x1352 
thanx, ceuh ceuh ceuh 
LOST: small blue topaz/diamond 
ring somewhere between C1 lot 
and library. Call Jennifer at 273­
4516 Cash reward if found 
WANTED 
FUNDRAISING Choose from 3 dif­ferent fundraisers lasting either 3 or 7 days. No Investment. Earn $$$ for your group plus personal cash bonuses for yourself. Call 1-800­932-0528, Ext. 65 
Help Wanted Individual students/organizations to promote Spring Break Trips. Earn high dollar commissions and free trips. Must be outgoing and creative. Call immediately 1-800-217-2021 
NEEDED: Responsible care-giver in our home for infant and three year old. quiet environment, conve­nient location. Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, 2:00 to 
8:00 p.m. References required. Call 289-9975. 
'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$' FASCINATING CONVERSATION! 
Looking for a ride from NO to 
Milwaukee Thursday night October 
27 
Please Call Pierre x11 84 

'$'$'$'$'$'$*$'$'$'$*$'$'$'$'$' 
I need a ride to PA for fall break. I 
will share expenses. 
Kathryn x4550 

SITTER NEEDED Tuesdays from 
2:45-5:30.MUST have car. Ages 
5,7,12.Piease call Cathy @ 277­
9661. Possible add'l hours.$5/hr. 
Need a ride back from MN after 
Oct. break. Will help w/ driving & $. 
Please calli Meagen X2764 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ment available. No experience nec­essary. For more information calll­206-634-0468 ext. C55841 
TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK 
'95! LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, 
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE. 
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1 
ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL 
FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURS1­
800-426-n10 Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808 
• I desperately NEED 1 Navy GA • 
• for my newlywed best friend. ' PLEASE CALL 4-4320 
BABYSITTER-2 children 1-2 half days per wk. Occasional evenings. $5.00 hr. 272-5029 
FOR RENT 

THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­773-2034 
SUBLET efficiency apt for next sem. Call 233-4960 after 6 pm. 
FOR SALE 
Selling one-way plane ticket South Bend to Providence, Chris X1955. 

486 Tenex multimedia tower com­puter & monitor. Loaded with many windows programs. $1400 OBO Laurie 291-4888 
'94 Deluxe Plymouth Voyager, 
leather interior, loaded, 10,000 
miles, assume loan, $21,800. Call 
233-8855 
For Sale T-Shirts 
$4 
Call2n-7131 
TICKETS 

I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL 
HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 

I need one Air Force GA or student ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please call X3822. Thanks! 
I NEED FSU TIX 
KEVIN @ X3457 I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call Kristine at 4-3806. Thank you VERY MUCH! 
NEED 1 STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR AIR FORCE. CALL LOU @ 233-4008. 
$$$$$Help! I need Air Force GAs. Please call Gina at2n-0740.$$$$$ 
NEEDED: NAVY-2 G.A.'s 1st game for 'rents. Coming from the moon, NO football is only rea­son for life. Will pay big $$. Can beat other bids.Call2n-9742 
I have 4 roundtrip plane tix to Orlando that leave on the Thursday before the FSU game. I'll sell them for $200 or best offer. Call Trout at 271-1390. 
2 NAVY GA's & PARK. PASS 
for sale -make offer 
Peter @ x3533 
I NEED NAVY GAs. CALL WENDY @ X4708 
Need 6 Navy Ga's 
Bill271-9471 
Desperately need 1 NAVY TICKET 
for mylittle brother. Please call 
Becky x2526. 
Need 1 Navy (GA or son tic for my little sis. CALL BRIAN X3526 
NEEDED: GA's for NAVY. 
Call Steve at 4-1909. 
need 4 navy GAs, 2 air force GAs, 
1 st. air force. help-Matt 4327 
Need 2 Navy GAs Call Tony at 
634-4532. 
I am selling 4 Navy GA's!l! Call 
Heather at 4-1337 
FSU FSU FSU 
2GA's 
Best Offer by 8 PM Wed 
x1955 
I need 4 GA's for the Airforce 
Game. Call Ashley 284-4310. 
Thanks. 
I will be your best friend for a BYU 
GA or student ticket. (There's also 
money involved). Call Cara. 284­
4310. 

For sale: 2 NAVY stud.tix call 2946 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR MY 8 YRS. OLD BROTHER AND A FAMILY FRIEND. PLEASE HELP ME II call BRIAN@ 271-9081 
NEED 1 or 2 NAVY GA-willing to buy or trade for air force GA. call ann x4544 
nEEd 2 BYU 2 AF 1 NAVY &3 Any game Stu or GA Call Tom@-1410. 
Need: GA's and Student Tix For Air Force. Will pay Big Bucks! Call Liz 273-2179. Thanks! 
NEED NAVY GA so FREAK 
FRIEND'II drive me back after 
break: Nate X3252 
FOR SALE: 2 NAVY GA'S 
NEED: 3 FSU TICKETS PLEASE HELP ME--KELLEY X3427111111 
GREG BRADY WANTS 
1 NAVY GAll! CALL MARSHA 
AT 271-n80 
WANTED: One GA or 
Student Ticket 
for 
NAVY 
Call Norm @ 634-1023 
NEED AF GA'S OR STUD TIX 
X3098 
NeedAFGA 
Will pay top $$$ 
x1751 
GA'S FOR SALE! Two GA's for 
remaining home games & FSU 
game.Need to sell quicklylll 
ANDY 9-683-7688 (local) 
Selling one Navy GA: will take best offer by wed. Norm x3914 NEED 1 AF & 1 NAVY GA. CALL JOSE 1661. 
NEED NAVY GA TIX Call David @ 288-9760 
PERSONAL 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune Student Center now accepts VISA, MC, and MAC cards for your copying needs. 
Female Grad Students Need 1 more roommate-Oak Hill $300/mo. 273-6153 
NEED ride to Syracuse, NY for fall break!! I Steve Crowley 287-6380 
Molly, Molly, Molly, Mollylll Happy Birthday You Drunklll Roses are red Violets are blue Wish Molly happy birthday And buy her a brewlll 
MOLLY, UGH-UGH, I UGH UOG. UG OUG. KNOCK KNOCK, KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK knock UGH, BILL 
Zahm 1212 man & 3b sex-shown: lets fire it up, beesh tatanka: harry donut I love that little pip-squeak 
We're Open Early, Late, & Weekendslll 00¢ THE COPY SHOP 00¢ 
LaFortune Student Center . Phone 631-COPY 
I need a ride to Urbana, IL on Oct. 
21. Will help with expenses. Call Rob x-4333 
Do you want to laugh? No, I mean really laugh? Then, what are you waiting for? Make plans to come to Irish Accent, Notre Dame's comedy improv troupe. Show is Tuesday at 
9:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Come and enjoy! 
Attention! Attention! In case you missed the last announcement, Irish Accent is having a show Tuesday at 9:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Kiddo-You got the ticket so come, fun will be had by alii -An Ill Farmer 
1 
l 
1 
I 
l 
l I 
l 
l 
j 
l 
j j I j 
1 
-

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 17, 1994 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 

1994·95 Notre Dame Men's Basketball Schedule
Recruiting Revival Step 
November 

By JASON KELLY 
Associate Spons Editor 
There's no question about what has sparked the revival of interest in the Notre Dame men's basketball program. 
Inclusion next season in the Big East Conference has given long-suffering Irish fans hope for a resurgence. 
It has also attracted some top-flight recruits, players who probably would have shunned Notre Dame not long ago. 
A quartet of coveted high school heroes will join the Irish next season, players who turned down places like UCLA, Kansas and Syracuse to come to Notre Dame. 
Gary Bell, a 6-5 forward, Doug Gottlieb, a 6-1 point guard, 6-5 shooting guard Antoni Wyche and 6-11 center Phil Hickey each have verbally committed to Notre Dame. 
All are expected to make it official when the early-signing period begins next month. 
"It has been an entirely dif­ferent experience (since joining the Big East)," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "It has disarmed opposing recruiters who used to tell recruits that they shouldn't go to Notre Dame be­cause it's not in a conference." 
Shine 
continued from page 20 
Texas was a solid ranked team, but also because it will proba­bly put the Irish into the top ten, a long awaited and deserved arrival for the Irish 
The Irish traveled to College Station on Saturday night to hand Texas A&M their second Irish defeat of the season. Once again, as they did on September 16 at the Colorado Invitational, the Irish defeated the Aggies. The Irish complet­ed the victory in four games with scores of 15-10, 15-8, 12­15, and 15-10. 
Christy Peters again led the team with 20 kills and a sea­son-high 26 digs, but the Irish also received strong perfor­mances from sophomore Jenny Birkner and senior co-captain Nicole Coates. Birkner tied her season best with 17 kills and 10 digs, and Coates added eight kills and a strong defensive show with two solo blocks. 
FOR... WEEKENDS/HOLIDAYS BIRTHDAYS/WEDDINGS & HOME COOKIN'! 
lkxi< ea1y for the tdiciays and SiNe! CD/I today for current ION fares and a.;ai/able dates. 
Couna1 Travel 
1153 North Dearborn Chicago, ll60610 
311•951•0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 

MILLER'S TIME: Sophomore 
forward Pete Miller, a walk-on 
as a freshman, has been 
awarded a scholarship. 
His gutsy play and long-range 
marksmanship made him a 
crowd favorite last year, as well · as a favorite of Irish coach John 
MacLeod. 
"He reminds me of a Jeff 
Hornacek (a guard for the 
NBA's Utah Jazz)." MacLeod 
said. "He's tough, mentally fo­
cused and he's an excellent 
competitor." 
The scholarship is a reward 
for Miller, who fought through 
some tough times as a rookie, 
even doubting whether he 
wanted to continue his basket­
ball career. 
"I wasn't used to being on the 
bench and the time committ­
ment was more than I ex­
pected," Miller said. "But bas­
ketball is really important to 
me and I didn't want to just let 
it go." 
FOREVER YOUNG: 
Sophomore big man Marcus 
Young legally changed his 
name from Marcus Hughes. 
A stress fracture in his foot 
kept him out of most of the pre­
season conditioning, but he has 
begun jogging recently. Young 
is expected to be available for 
full workouts by Nov. 1. 
continued from page 20 
well at the end of last season, but freshman Admore White fumbled the ball at times. 
Without a steady floor gen­eral, the Irish offense will sput­ter. 
"I think (Admore) will do a much better job handling the ball. He'll have a better feel, he'll see things better and un­derstand them better," MacLeod said. 
Still, problems seem to out­weigh the positives for Notre Dame. It's almost the same team-minus Monty Williams­that went 10-17 in 1994. 
But the Irish, to the man, be­lieve that this year will be dif­ferent. 
"We're fed up with losing," Gotsch said. "And we're not gonna take it anymore." 
If you see Sports hap­pening, call The Observer 


University Park Mall 
20% Discount 
on haircuts & brand name products 
with Student ID & this AD 277-3770 
'Parlicipanls mud 6e a n'DJSmC sludenl. OnliJ llal &t~t~rks will 6e accepled (drawings, design, phtlltlgraph1J, painlings} wilh a maximum si~e t~l3'x3'. 
1he exhi6il will 6e sh11wn in lhe 'Dt111le1J Rll11m al la'111rlune Sludenl Cenler ntluem6er 1·11 
'Purchase priles, darling al $200, will 6e awarded. 
Applicalitllll are llllaila6lt ,.,,., in lht Slutltnl Acli11ilit~ 01/ict 315la1~rlunt. 
Sp1citd 1ht~11lrr 1o fit• Ill,,.,.; llu•cialillll, 
'"' s,.;,, m""""'·""tl '"' 
Sl"tl'"' llcliuili~r Ollie• l11r llt1ir bllalio111 lo lit• p11rt:lt1111 prit1 1111111rtlr. 
December 
Thur 17 SLOVAKIA (EXH) 7:30 pm EST Tues 22 VERISH REPS (EXH) 7:30 pm EST Sun 27 VALPARIASO 2:00pm EST Tues 29 INDIANA (NDTV) 8:00 pm EST 

Sar3  at San Diego Sr., 7:30 pm PST  
Mon 5  at Loyola Marymoum, 7:05 pm PST  
Sat 10  at DePaul (Unired Center} 2:00 pm CST  
Thur22  ST. BONIVIDA VENTURE (NDTV), 4:00 pm EST  
Tues 27-­ ar Far Wesr Classic (Porrland OR)  
Firsr Round: Norre Dame vs Oregon Sr, 7:00pm, PST  
Oregon vs George Washingron 9: 15 pm PST  
Wed 28  Final Round Third Place Game, 7:00pm PST  
Championship Game 9:25 pm PST  
Sar 31  CORNELL (NDTV), 4:00 pm EST  
January  
Tues 3  LEHIGH, 7:30 pm EST  
Thur 5  LOYOLA (MD) (NDTV) 8:00 pm EST  
Sar 7  ar Louisville (NDTV) TBA  
Tues 10  COLUMBIA 7:30pm EST  
Thur 12  at Missouri (NDTV) 7:00pm CST  
Sun 15  HOFSTRATA (NDTV) 1:00pm EST  
Tues 17  ar Dayron (NDTV) 7:30 pm EST  
Sar 21  XAVIER (NBC) 4:00pm EST  
Tues 24  DUKE (NDTV) 8:00 pm EST  
Sar 28  BOSTON COLLEGE (NBC) 2:00pm EST  

February 
Wed 1  IONA 7:30pm EST  
Sun 5  ar UCLA (ABC) 12:45 pm PST  
Wed 8  DUQUESNE (NDTV) 7:00 pm EST  
Sun 12  KENTUCKY (NBC) 1 :00 pm EST  
Wed 15  at Buder 7:30pm EST  
Sar 18  vs Fordham (ar MSG) 6:00 pm EST  
Sat 25  MARQUETTE (NBC) 4:00 pm EST  
Tues 28  LOYOLA (IL) 7:30pm EST  


:JS for 


30 Days 
Unl~~'"'ited Tanning
• Around the Corner

SUl}StUd10 f7ml ~~~~u:. Area's Newest & Friendliest Salon 
Singers • Musicians Singer/Dancers 
Bloomington, Indiana Tuesday, November 1, 1994 Indiana University Indiana Memorial Union -Solarium Auditions: 2:30 -5:30p.m. 
Evanston, Illinois (Chicago area) Friday, November 11, 1994 Giordano Dance Center 614 Davis Street Auditions: 1:30-4:30 p.m.* 
Muncie, Indiana Saturday, November 12, 1994 Ball State University Hargreaves Music Building RoomMU 123 Auditions: 2:30 -4:30 p.m. 
*Central Time 


POSff/ONSALSOAVAILABLE 
• Technicians • D.J.'s • • Costumed Characters • 
(Berenstain BearsTM) 
CALL (419) 627-2390 FOR RJRTHER INFORMATION 
For additional sites or information contact: 
Cedar Point® 
Live Entertainment Post Office Box 5006 Sandusky, OH 44871-8006 
(419)627-2390 

Monday, October 17, 1994 

The Observer I Brian Hardy 
Jodi Hartwig and the Irish defeated both top-20 teams they faced. 
List 
continued from page 20 
credit to the players and their talents." 
One of the biggest plays for the Irish was made by sopho­more goalkeeper Jen Renola, whose diving deflection of a MacMillan shot with just over five minutes remaining in the game helped to ice the win for the Irish. 
"That was the type of save we've expected from Jen since we recruited her," Petrucelli said. 
The Irish win broke an 18­game win streak by the Pilots at Merlo Field, which will be the site of this year's NCAA women's soccer Final Four. 
"If you would have asked me two weeks ago if we had peaked too early, I might had thought so," Petrucelli said. "But the way we played today shows that we haven't. I would have been happy to have more wins than losses against top-20 teams, but to be 6-0-1 says a lot about our players." 
"Trust me, Iam 21 Today!" 
Happy Birthday 
Jonas Rya McCormick 
Love 'ya! M&D 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
-

Team can improve on second 
By KATIE CRISHAM 
Associate Sports Editor 
It wasn't the best of times or the worst of times. 
Men's cross country coach Joe Piane wasn't particularly pleased with his team's fifth place finish at this weekend's prestigious Michigan Wolverine Interregional meet. But he did acknowledge that many positive things resulted from it. 
"I wasn't necessarily happy with the way we ran, and I think we could have done a bit better," said Piane. "Still, there were a lot of positive things that came out of it." 
"We ran in a much tigher pack and our top nine runners finished in the top 50, which was better than anyone else except Stanford," he said. "This meet really showed the amount of depth we possess." 
Senior John Cowan agreed with Piane's assessment of the Irish performance. 
"We didn't do terrible, but we can do a heck of a lot better and everyone knows it," he said. "As individuals, a few of us could have run better, although our sixth, seventh, eigth, and ninth runners ran real well." 
"A lot of positive things came out of the meet, and we're go­ing to treat it as a learning ex­perience," he said. 
Senior Nate Ruder was the top Irish finisher, placing 9th with a time of 25:13.0. Sophomore Matt Althoff placed 18th with a time of 25:30.3, while junior Joe Dunlop placed 24th with a time of 25:44.8. Cowan placed 26th with a time of 25:47.3, and classmate Shane DuBois placed 31st with a time of 25:52.9. 
Both Piane and Cowan noted that the fact that the meet 
• WomEN's Cr~oss Comrmv 
Disappointing's only way to describe it 
By RANDY WASINGER 
Sports Writer 

Going into yesterday's Wolverine Interregional in Ann Arbor. Michigan, Coach Connelly hoped for big things from his Notre Dame women's cross country squad. 
Instead of a big victory, how­ever, all he got was a big disap­pointment. 
"Yeah, I was definitely disap­pointed," said Coach Connelly. "We could have and should have run a lot better than we did." 
Although Sunday's field was very though, Coach Connelly felt that his team was better than their 5th place showing (150 points) out of the 12 teams. Michigan and Stanford placed first and second in the meet with 43 and 61 points respectively. 
"Two of the teams that l}eat us (Arizona and Washington) had their 5th runner way back," explained Connelly. "We had 5 kids running pretty close together, but we needed to be up there a lot farther." 
For the fourth straight meet this season, Notre Dame senior Kristi Kramer led the Irish attack. She finished 19th 
(18:21.1) individually. Following closely behind was fellow senior Maureen Kelly in 20th place (18:21.7). 
"Both Kramer and Kelly ran pretty solid again," said Coach Connelly. "We just need some­one to go out and take control for once." 
The other top runners for the Irish were sophomore Emily Hood in 36th (18:46.0), senior Sarah Riley in 38th (18:47.0), and junior Kristen Dudas in 40th place (18:51.2). 
The Irish now have plenty of time to try to get things turned around before their next big meet. The end of the season is quickly approaching. 
"We'll now be preparing for the district meet on November 11, using the M.C.C. (Midwestern Collegiate Conference) meet on October 29th basically as part of our training. Traditionally that meet hasn't been overly com­petitive." 
course was significantly shorter than the team's home course played a factor in the finishes. 
"This course was 8000 me­ters, and these guys are used to running on 10,000 meter cours­es," said Piane. "I think the shorter distance had a lot to do with the fact that lot of guys got passed up on the last few hun­dred meters." 
"It was a demanding course and a competitive field, and they ran well," he said. "They just needed to run better, and every man knows that they can run a bit better." 
According to Cowan, this week was just another step in the team's strengthening pro­cess. 
"We're alternating from win­ning and losing right now, but the important thing is that we're learning from every meet," he said. "And that's what's going to help us at the end of the year." 
beginJoday at the RecSports .otlic¢;, Apyonw interested in these two activities or has qtl~stions aoout them call the RecSpoJ:i$ office at 631-6100. 

'Climbing Wall • Climbing wall orientation sessions will b~ }l¢hi on the following .?#n~~f$J)it 12:30pm to ?,;l)Oprri; November 6, Nove1Dbet 13, November 20, and December 4. All partici~ pants must sign-up in advance in the RecSports offic~. Space is limited. 

TOU. FREE INFORMATION AND RESERVATIONS 
1•800•SUNCHASE 
::.~NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 
l I 
l l 
I 
~ 
l 
~ 
J 

--------------------------------------------~---------------· 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, October 17, 1994 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

-
Irish get out of their hole with tie and win 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Spons Writer 
Every once and a while, one can forget who they are and what they are capable of. This was the case for the (7-7-1) Notre Dame men's soccer team as they experienced some tough luck and losses during their stretch of conference matches the last couple of weeks. 
Yet, thanks in part to a record crowd of over 3,000 and the strong play of Dane Whitley, the Irish were able to recapture their winning style. 
On Friday the Irish battled the perennial soccer power and No. 10 SMU Mustangs to a 0-0 tie. With a return of confi­dence, the Irish preceded to pound (10-3-1) Bowling Green, yesterday, 3-1. 
With starting sweeper Kevin Adkisson suspended because of a red card, the game against the Mustangs marked the return of senior sweeper Dane Whitley to the starting line-up. Whitley, who started at sweep­er last year for the Irish, has been the back-up to Adkisson this year as the Irish switched to a 3-5-2 formation, which deleted Adkisson's stopper position. 


Whitley did not miss a beat as he, Brian Engesser and Chris Dean shut down the Mustang offense. 
"After a tough run," coach Mike Berticelli said. "to play the No. 10 team and shut them out, this was a good game. Whitley stepped up well." 
"It was good to get in there and play again," Whitley com­mented. 
He played well enough for the Irish to return to the 4-4-2 for­mation when they played Bowling Green, so to keep both Whitley and Adkisson on the field. Whitley remained at sweeper and Adkisson returned to the stopper position he played last year. 
Other changes were to put Chris Mathis up at forward with Tim Oates and then play Tont Richardson, Tony Capasso, Konstantin Koloskov and Jason Fox at midfield. Brian Engesser and Chris Dean remained at their defensive 
Belles break even 
ByJENNIFER LEWIS everytime." 
Saint Mary's Spons Editor Freshman Meg Kelly led the 
Belles with twenty-one kills, 
three blocks and thirty-two The Belles broke even in 
digs. Freshman Betsy Connolly Friday's triangular match, 
had nineteen kills and fourteen defeating Olivet College in three blocks and captain Sara games and losing to Concordia 
Stronzcek had eighteen kills, of Annarbor in four, making six blocks, and twenty-one their record 11-11. 
digs. 
Something to note, though, 

"In both games, we were Concordia is a NAJA team, 
doing a lot of good things on which means they are allowed 
offense," said Schroeder-Biek. to grant scholarships. 
"The people off the bench came· in and really did their "I really feel we could have 
job."beaten them," said coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "We've beat 
Saint Mary's has a difficult them in the first game and we 
.match coming up against the were ahead of them 12-8 in the 
division II University of second game when they made a 
Indianapolis at home this run on us and won 14-16." 
evening at seven o'clock. Indianapolis conquered the "We don't really have that 
Belles in three games last year'play to win, refuse to lose atti­
winning 13-15, 0-15, and 5-15. tude,' but it's getting closer 

positions. "(The 4-4-2) gives us another Irish rediscovered their offense 
"We moved some people experienced player (Whitley) on and peppered the Falcons early around and looked at playing the field." and took a 3-0 lead within 56 the 4-4-2," Berticelli explained. The moves worked as the minutes of play. 
Belles break losing streak 
BY JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

healthy players for Saint Mary's. Captain Maura Sullivan was out because of an ankle injury and Sandra Gass injured her knee during the first half of the game and her condition is unknown. 
"The bench really came threw and helped out," said coach Larry Patterson. 
The second goal was crossed by Eileen Newell to Tiffany Raczynski for the shot. Saint Mary's tied the score 2-2, which led them into overtime. Lisa Nichols passed the ball to freshman Debi Diemer for the point. However, the ball reflect­ed off the goalie's chest and Nichols returned the ball over the goalie's head down into the net for the winning point. 
" Kicking the winning goal was great feeling after playing the whole game and then going into overtime," said Nichols. 
"It was a perfect shot," said Matelski. "Lisa really played hard the whole game and it paid off for all of us in the end." 
Come support the Belles in their last home game Tuesday afternoon against Trinity College at 4:00. 








-~--~--~ 
Monday, October 17, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
lf\£-~ 0 f',l;. r-I!Dm T.Nq lhA>I {\No 'So \-\£.!1£ I A>• ~ou 
Tl\£-"\ }?i'.ESS I"Bi!.lbt'T"BLuE. VJI\fl;'~ C::\oor-oG lJ,lllONG-:'" 
'i£.,.-l>1£'jl3£AT \.h 1\T \\oM£. !Htw·< Loss NvmB£1<1\i~<£ Nov> 
J\r.lo 1'\£'-\ f:.U\; V':o ~"'",Too tot< ~CTBfiLLS f'(o.-.16 ~oN0· 
DAVE KELLETT 

6,oi\L V-.\£ "SIIouLb SE ,--13'1 T~£ w"'i' L£T''5 NOT (l'\Ai<£ IT Sll\Ao<1!'1\ W£~ Tl\<eol'l{, [!.lH£N NEll'\' 'S<'A~oN (om~S. IH1<. 1'\s A Le:T'> NoT Los£To Pl<.trw JuS< •F•<.A'I'WN FRo!'\ 
\ G,oo \>;1'1> "'BP.Iqi\Am "\ouNG l>lfl" R~<:'IHT 


I PUT TOGETPIER A Tlf'\E. LINE. fOR YOUR 
PROJECT 
u---~----~--~~~~L_~~~~~~--~ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
12 Mix of westerns 13 Venomous viper 21 Debts 
26lt's south of Saudi Arabia 
I STARTED BY REASONING 
S THAT ANYTHING I DON'T 
~ UNDERSTAND IS EASY 
~ 

~ TO DO. 
47 Black-eyed item 48 Shows approval 52 Film in which 
Hayley Mills 
played twins 56 Ballet leap 58 One of the 
Menendez 
brothers 59 Gaucho gear 60 Elliptical 61 Look 62 Last word of 
fairy tales 63 Cravings 64 Flexible Flyer, for one 65 Press secretary Dee Dee 
DOWN 
1-diem 
(seize the day) 2 Puccini product 3 More like a fox 4Filament 
material sOrg. 6 Tabby treat 
?"We­
please" &Breeze 9 Mediterranean 
spouter 10 Against 
28 Sign a check 29 Stylish, in the 
60's 30 Basque, e.g. 31 Hair splitter 32 Mallorca, por 
ejemplo 33 Lively dance 34Whisky­
vermouth 
cocktail 3SMdse. 38 Place to meet 
following a tennis match 

PHASE ONE.: DESIGN A CLIENT-SERVER ARCfiiTEC­TURE. FOR OUR WORLD­
WIDE OPERATIONS. Tif"\E: SIX 1"\INUTES. 


THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 

• 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1-Rica 8 Job for Perry Mason 10 Career 
summary 14 Top grade 15"-WeGot 
Fun?" 18 Son of Seth f7 Jockey's 
handful 11 Govt. agent 19 Mounties: Abbr. 20 Meaningful 
silence 23 Prominent features of Alfred E. 
Neuman 24 Carnaval site 25 Shrimpish 
~m~~ilft®ill~~ ce®J]]ll]])~J]lu~~ nem~&~ ff®rr ~1!m~~ill1! @®w~Ifill[ffi~ill1!~~~ 
27 University of 
Maryland player 
29 Stumble 
32 Antigone's 
sister 35 Mongolian desert 38 The Monkees' ·-Believer" 
37 1987 Edward James Olmos film 
40 Actor Chaney 41 Miner profits? 42 Guinea pig or groundhog 
43 Emily Dickinson's hometown 
45 Air freshener scent 48Nixon and Schroeder 


39 Pick out of a lineup 44Mertzand Merman 4S Looked too soon 47 Cracker Jack bonus 49 Speechify 
50 Library gadget 51 Trains, in a way 53 Cribbage 
counters 54 Asia's-Sea 55 Streetcar 56 "The-Luck 
Club" 57 Night before 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
-------------------------~ -------­

Irish embarrased by tough loss 


SPORTS 
page 20 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Players need to step up 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
And so it begins again, this annual winter wade through the world of college basketball. 
There are 302 teams out there all playing for the same prize. And there are maybe a dozen or so with a legitimate chance to claim it. 
Notre Dame, alas, is not one of them. 
If not for a schedule that in­cludes three different Loyolas, two Ivy League teams, a Lehigh and an Iona, double-digit victo­ries might not have seemed possible. 
The Irish are knee deep in familiar problems, though their optimism emerged as usual Friday when they met the me­dia for the first time. 
"We should be in the top 25 or 30," guard Keith Kurowski offered without being asked. "Our schedule isn't as tough as it has been. I don't see any rea­son why we shouldn't." 

Here's one: Monty Williams is now a New York Knick. That's 22 points a game now on some­body else's scoreboard. 
"We obviously have to find a way to make up for the points Monty scored," fourth-year Irish coach John MacLeod said. ''I'd prefer to have a balanced team. My hope is that we can get five to seven guys involved and have the points distributed fairly." 
Kurowski and fellow sharp­shooter Ryan Hoover will have to carry a heavy scoring load, with help hopefully coming from inside players Matt Gotsch and Marcus Young.j 
Gotsch, a bony freshman, has beefed up a bit for his sopho­more year. Sometimes swal­lowing as much as 7,000 calo­ries a day, the 6-11 center has gained about 12 pounds and 70 pounds on his bench press. 
His development, along with Young, will be a key to Notre Dame's success-or lack ofit. 
With expected production on the perimeter, the Irish need to find some inside potential. 
"Outside of Gotsch, Young and (6-5 senior) Billy Taylor, we don't have any size," MacLeod said. "The freshman will have to step up." 
Pat Garrity, a 6-9 freshman forward may be the quickest to contribute. 
He looked eerily like one of the infamous Ross brothers in his No. 53 jersey, but he ap­parently plays like another­more celebrated-Irish alum. 
"He's a mini Monty Williams," Kurowski offered, again with­out being asked. 
Fellow rookies Brian Watkins and Derek Manner also will be needed contributors-ready or not. 
But perhaps the most impor­tant area of development for the Irish is at point guard. Senior Lamarr Justice played 
see STEP I page 16 
' 
• WomEN'S SOCCER 

Huskies, Pilots added to list 
ByRIAN AKEY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The No. 2 Notre Dame women's soccer team took a huge step this weekend toward finishing their season undefeat­ed when they downed the last two ranked opponents on their schedule. 
On Friday, the Irish posted

• 
their fifth consecutive shutout and their eighth of the season in a 1-0 win over No. 13 Washington. Yesterday, Notre Dame came back from an early 0-1 deficit to beat No. 11 Portland 2-1, giving the Irish a 13-0-1 mark on the season. 
Against the Huskies junior forward Rosella Guerrero scored the game's only goal at the 35:34 mark on a 22-yard chip over the head of Washington goalkeeper Tina Thompson. The goal was Guerrero's tenth of the season, a team high, and came in her first start since spraining her ankle in Notre Dame's tie with North Carolina two weeks ago. 

Against Portland, the Irish had to contend with a vocal home crowd of 3,857 as well as the return of Pilot All-American Shannon MacMillan, the nation's second leading scorer who had been recovering from a foot injury. 
The homefield seemed an advantage early in the game as Portland took the lead 1-0 at the 9:38 mark on a breakaway goal by Pilot forward Ann Milbrett. Millbrett's goal had the Irish trailing for the first time since their September 11 match with then No. 4 William & Mary. 
Notre Dame managed to tie the match before half, when sophomore Cindy Daws headed a restart from Michelle McCarthy which two-bounced into the net. 
The game remained dead­locked until late in the second half when senior co-captain Tiffany Thompson tagged an Irish corner kick from Holly Manthei past the outstretched arms of the Pilot goalkeeper at the 75:57 mark. 
"This is one of the proudest moments I've ever had with a team," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "The way we came together as a team in such a hostile environment and came away with a victory is a 
see LIST I page 17 


By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame head volleyball coach Debbie Brown joined the Irish "Century" Club Friday night with her hundredth victo­ry as head coach of Notre Dame. The Irish defeated the 14th ranked Lady Longhorns of Texas in four games with scores of 16-14, 11-15, 15-11, and 15-10. 
The Irish were led by 6-0 freshman Angie Harris who broke her own record with 8 services aces in a game. Harris had previously broken the sin­gle-match service ace record in the Irish victory over Loyola Marymount earlier this season. 
Monday, October 17, 1994 
She also contributed 19 kills and 17 digs to the victory. 
"Angie's serving was the key to the match," said Coach Brown. 
"She put a lot of pressure on Texas even when she didn't get the ace." 
All-American outside hitter Christy Peters topped the kill and dig column for the Irish with 22 kills and 19 digs. Junior setter Shannon Tuttle added 58 assists to her make her grand total 7 46 so far this season. 
The victory was the most sig­nificant of the season thus far for the Irish, not only because 
see SHINE/ page 16 

of note...
IRISH REBOUND The men's soccer team is starting to show life Check inside for results of men's 
with a win and a tie over the weekend and women's cross country.
See page 16 







