
THE INDEPENDENT NE\t\TSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Fun is key for SAB 
CSC Rap Up group focuses on senior life 
By ROB CATHILL "I can give them some sug­News Writer gestions, but I would rather have them decide on topics for 
Offered through the Center discussion," said Mary Ann for Social Concerns, Senior Roemer, who is the post-gradu­Rap Up Groups are completely ate coordinator at the esc. student led discussion groups, One of the opportunities enabling the participants to presented to the group mem­meet new people, get off cam­bers is to meet members of the pus and into a friendly home other sex and to openly talk environment on Sunday nights. about gender issues. 
Rap-up groups meet every "The Senior Rap Groups are Sunday night of the spring as good as anything else on semester to share a meal and campus for improving men­some experiences. Students dis­women relationship at ND," cuss life issues, spirituality and said Dominic Vachon, another life after Notre Dame. host for the groups. "I think 
To cover the costs of the that these groups should start meals, each participant of the sophomore year because it Senior Rap Groups must pay would be really helpful to talk $20 at the beginning of the about life issues in the early semester. Each member has stages of a student's college ex­the opportunity to cook and to perience." lead prayer at least once. The . Reg Werssert, a host since hosts who invite the students to the conception of the Rap spend Sunday nights with them groups nine years ago, said, do not lead the discussions, "The students have all really rather, the students do. enjoyed it. They seem to think 
"The more willing the stu­it is a good idea and they look dents are to talk about personal forward to each time the group and important issues, the bet­gets together, and so do I." ter it is," said Kate Barrett, All interested seniors are en­who is a volunteer group host. couraged to join a Senior Rap 
Even the topics for discus­Up Group. To sign up, stop by sion come completely from the the Center for Social Concerns. students themselves. Sign-ups end October 11. 
says Storme. Then, the indi­accessible to students' social News Writer viduals in the groups will dis­and educational needs. 
By BECKY MAYERNIK cuss dealing with other cul-Hellrung is in charge of creat­
News Writer 
A new project to promote tures, as well as their own. • ing the very first Senior Video, cross-cultural understanding at "Ultimately the groups will a compilation of Saint Mary'sFun was the key word dis­Saint Mary's is ready to start come up with an activity to events over the school year.
cussed at the Sltint Mary's Stu­this Wednesday, according to reach out to others" making Her main goal is to get everydent Activities Board (SAB) Mana Derakhshani, assistant students more aware, claims senior in this video, creating ameeting last night. 
professor of French. Derakhshani. The study groups "nostalgic and yet funny" pic­SAB is getting ready for "Foot Derakhshani and Associate will meet once a month, and ture. However, the camera willStompin' Thursday," which will Professor Julie Storme in­their efforts will culminate in a be of use to the entire studentfeature Amarilla Star with line 
formed Board of Governance "multicultural frenzy" in April. body.
dancing. 
(BOG) of their idea to bring The first organizational meet­Though the camera will be"The Snack Bar in Haggar women of different cultures to­ing for the project is used to create the Senior Video, will be helping out with the gether through this project. Wednesday, Sept. 28. · Hellrung said, "it will be usedTexas theme, and a man from Student/faculty study groups Another issue for BOG was .for the Senior Video for theDudes and Darlins will be here will be formed throughout the brought up by Senior Board next five to six years." 
selling western items, so it 
residence halls, first dealing member Maggie Hellrung. She BOG will deal more with theshould be a lot of fun," said with "self discovery and un­proposed purchasing a video proposal after this week's Se­
Special Events Chairperson 
derstanding our own cultures," camera that would be more nior Board meeting. 
Jessica Zigmond. Marriott will help out in the Snack Bar, and many raffles will take place, according to Zigmond. This 
Conductor offered job at NATO 
event is October 13th at 7 pm at Haggar Parlor. 
By PAUL AMES as NATO secretary-general, if tiona! legislature in 1968 and 
•Also discussed was a 
Associated Press allied governments so decide." first entered government four Halloween event at Dalloway's Claes told Belgian radio from years later. 
featuring a storyteller and 
BRUSSELS New York, "I gave a positive He served in three govern­Halloween foods and activities. 
Belgium's foreign minister, answer." ments between 1973 and 1992 This event will be tri-spon­who conducts symphonies in His approval is expected to be as economics minister before sored by SAB, Residence Hall his spare time, gained support a formality. The appointment is becoming foreign minister. 
Association (RHA), and 
of NATO nations Monday to normally for four years with the Claes will be the eighth secre­Dalloway's, according-to SAB lead the Western alliance. possibility of a year extension. tary-general since NATO was coordinator Audrey Comrie. 
At a meeting at NATO head­Werner served for six years. founded in 1949. A European•Plans to bring Barry Will­quarters, amba~sadors from During a lifetime in Belgian traditionally fills NATO topliams, better known as Greg the 16 member nations offered politics, Claes, 55, has built a civilian post, and an American Brady, to Saint Mary's were Willy Claes the job of secretary­reputation as a tough negotia­officer, currently Gen. George
discussed. He would be a 
general of the North Atlantic tor and a shrewd consensus­Joulwan, serves as militaryspeaker in late March or early Treaty Organization. He would builder. He is a moderate So­commander. 
April at Carroll Auditorium, replace Manfred Woerner, a cialist who has defended strong Claes will be taking over a with tickets being $3. 
former German defense minis­ties between the United States military .alliance that was built •The movie "Above The ter, who died of cancer Aug. 13. and Europe. to resist the Soviet threat and is Rim" will be shown by SAB this The NATO foreign ministers As a student, Claes was torn now struggling to come to weekend in Carroll Auditorium are likely to formally approve between politics or a career in terms with the post-Cold War at 8 and 1 Opm. 
the appointment of Claes this music. He is a talented pianist world. 
•The Comedy Crack-Ups held week, possibly during the U.N. and still regularly wields the Among his most urgent tasks in Haggar Parlor last Friday General Assembly session in baton as a guest conductor for will be .helping define NATO's evening was declared a success New York. Belgian orchestras. role in former Yugoslavia. 
, according to members of SAB, In a statement, the alliance He was born Nov. 24, 1938, NATO warplanes already patrol and a comedian to appear in said the ambassadors asked in the northeastern city of Has­the skies of Bosnia and have 
early November will be 
Claes "if he was ready to serve selt. He won a seat in the na-fired on Serb tanks and planes.
planned. 
-. . 

Roemer faces third election 
By VIVIAN GEMBARA 
Assistant News Ediror 
Campaigning for reelection in the 3rd congressional district seat in Indiana is the main fo­cus for democratic incumbent Tim Roemer. 
Roemer is currently in his second term as the congress­man for the 3rd district, which comprises mamly of St. Joseph, LaPorte, and Elkhart counties. 
His Republican opponent is Rich Burkett. A tire salesman from Warsaw, Burkett is in his first campaign with little politi­cal experience. But he 3rd dis­trict race is historically competitive so the campaign is not being taken lightly by either candidate. 
In the 1990 election, Roemer won by only a two percent margin but in the more recent 1992 election this increased to 57 percent of the vote. 
Roemer's popularity among constituents can be attributed to his campaigning techniques and his unconventional plat­form views. In his first race for congress, Roemer showed up on an estimated 16,000 door steps within the district. Since his election in 1990, Roemer has held over 130 open meet­ings throughout the 3rd Dis­trict. 
He plans to continue this as­pect of his administration if re­elected. 
"Tim is one of the hardest workers for constituent issues, he travels back and forth from the capitol frequently to keep in touch with the people," cam­paign manager Mark Misner said. 
While a democrat, Roemer's platform varies on the issue of abortion. Roemer's pro-life stance on the abortion issue is uncommon for a democratic candidate. 
He is also known as an advo­cate for children. Roemer serves on the committee for ed­ucation and Labor as well as the Subcommittees for Post secondary and Elementary education. 
While a relatively young member of the House at 37, Roemer touts a need for over­hauling how the Congress func­tions. Reform in Congress and reduction of wasteful pork bar­reling legislation are key issues of his platform. 
As a member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, Roemer led House efforts in opposing fi­nancial waste in the NASA bud­get and continues work to elim­inate funding for the space sta­tion project. Roemer also voted for across-the-board spending cuts in appropriations bills and supported the Balance Budget Amendment to the Constitution. 
A native of South Bend, Roe­mer received his B.A. at Univ. of California at San Diego and his M.A. and Ph.D at Notre Dame. He is currently resides in South Bend with his two young children and wife Sally. 
Tuesday, September 27, 1994

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Chicken pox is 
something to 
be thankful for 
I was itching I was-------­scratching, oh my god 
what's going on? I can't believe this childhood dis­ease is hitting me now in the peak of my college career. What was I going to do, it couldn't be chick­en pox. That was sup­pose to be a "been there, 


done  that"  of  third  Patti Carson  
grade.  You know, along  Saint Mary's Accent  
with mumps measeles and German  Edicor  

Rheubella-all those things we now have convenient vaccines for. 
I determined to get myself out of bed and over to the infirmary but unfortunately it would have to be a Sunday afternoon. The infirmary being closed, I was forced to hold out untill Monday. 
Upon fmally seeing a doctor I was diagnosed with a severe case of bed lice. Bed Lice!! Doesn't that rank right up there with Scurvey and leprosy? Well, I did what I was told. I slipped the mattress and bolied my sheets­but, alas, to no avail! 
My roommates had had enough. I had had enough. It was time to take matters into our own hands. It was time to get a second opin­ion. Afterall, they had quarantined me like some strange melvillian outcast. 
So my roommates dropped me off at the emergency room and went on to Martin's. I think rice cakes must have been on sale or something. So I sat in the bleak emergency room, feeling sorry for myself. But then I took a look around, and I began to feel ashamed for feeling so depressed. 
The elderly woman next to me was slumped over in her wheelchair like a rag doll. Her eyes were two reflective pools of water that stared directly forward. Her hands and her legs were horribly deformed and her skin was sagging. She was draped with a blanket and a vomit pan rested on her stomach. 
No one paid much_ attention to the woman until her daughter noticed that she had dropped her head and closed her eyes to the world. Chaos followed. There was shouting, crying, sighing. Somehow, those doctors brought her back. 
Soon after, my attention was captured by the toddler sitting immediately to my left. He coughed continuously, ceasing only to gasp for a breath or two. Next came the sirens. Someone had jumped from a window down­town. More chaos. 
Finally, my turn came. "Hi. Those are chicken pox," the doctor said. He wrote a prescription, gave me instructions, and shook my hand. "Good luck with your sophomore year." Then he was summoned elsewhere. 
I was released and greeted by my room­mates in the waiting room. "Chicken pox," I announced. The laughter was contagious, more so than the pox. After being awarded with the new nicknames "Pox" and "Scratch," my roommates even treated me to Wendy's. And it just so happened that 1 had my school 
I.D. in possession. so I got the 10% discount. 
When I returned to campus, students were running, biking, blading, and laughing. The sun was bright and hot, which is a novelty in South Bend. Despite the fact that I'd spend the next few days in quarantine, I decided that I'm pretty lucky to be here. 
We take a lot of things for granted. At least I do sometimes. After spending three hours in that emergency room, I learned that we should make an effort to cherish even the lit­tle things that we have. We should cherish our friends, our family, and Macri's. And we should be passionate about whatever it is that we do with our lives today. Because life really is good-chicken pox or no . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Vivian Gembara Gwendolyn Norgle Viewpoint Micael O'Hara  Lab Tech Eric Ruethling Production Susan Marx  
Sports Joe Villinski  Whitney Sheets  

The Observ<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsetver is a member of the Associated Ptess. All teproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Several dead, thousands flee city of plague outbreak 
SURAT, India 

Authorities listed no plague deaths in this industrial city Monday for the first time in six days, but they reported a dis­turbing development: an out­break of plague in a neighboring state. 
Soldiers searched shanty­towns for more plague victims and guarded Surat's main hos­pital to stop infectious patients from fleeing. Officials said 56 new plague cases were recorded in the city. 
Since pneumonic plague was first reported in Surat last Tuesday, at least 51 people have died, more than 450 have been hospitalized and an estimated 400,000 have fled the citv. Unofficial death tolls run as high as 300. 
South of Surat, officials in Maharashtra state reported 31 cases of bubonic plague -a less deadly form of the disease that ravaged 14th century Europe and Asia as "the Black Death.'.' 
"This development makes us worried" Ramanand Tewari, Maharashtra's health secretary, said of the outbreak in the city of Beed. An outbreak of bubonic k"'-·•···"""'"'""""""--'·-"M"·""·":;.,;.~,--,__, 
-· • tributed by health officials. -City workers cleaned up piles of garbage and dead cows and rats left in the slums by monsoon floods. The plague is spread by fleas · that have bitten infected animals and by bacteria ejected into the air by the coughing of infected people. Soldiers with automatic weapons stood guard at the Civil Hospital to keep patients from leaving before being cured by antibiotics. At least 60 people fled ; before the federal government sent in 800 soldiers Sunday. Doctors described the fugitive patients as "time bombs" who could quickly spread the disease from one mud hut to another in -the many shantytowns on the banks of the filthy Tapi River. With nearly one-fifth of the population having fled-the city, Indian officials fear the plague may be spread to other regions. A few patients with pneumonic plague symptoms were being examined in hospitals in Maha­rashtra state and in New Delhi, -the federal capital. Although plague can be cured with antibiotics, the 600 million . people who live in rural India 
plague in villages around Beed =~~~~=:=~------:--:----'A~P~fN:!!!m.~J--=~ often have little access to doctors 
last month infected 93 people but caused no deaths. 
In Surat, a port in western Gujarat state, soldiers in blue-gray fatigues accompanied doctors into slums where most plague cases were reported. The troops helped search for plague sufferers being kept home by their families and watched for looting of medicine being dis-
Unusual campaign for Ed Kennedy 
BOSTON 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy is finding himself doing some unusual things this campaign -hanging out with Aerosmith, going negative and running neck-and-neck with a Republican. Kennedy's opponent is Mitt Ronmey, an energetic, clean-cut millionaire who is convince that 1994 is the year Kennedy comes home from Washington for 

good. "After many years there are some serious ques­tions being raised, indeed for the first time among his own supporters, about whether it would be best for him to continue or for him to be replaced," said Paul Watanabe, political science professor at the University of Massachusetts-Boston. Both candidates, for different rea­sons, are banking on a key premise: Voters know who Kennedy is and what he has done. 

British flock to Hong Kong for jobs 
HONG KONG 
The thump of piledrivers and screech of cranes are the music of opportunity to young Britons who have fled the economic malaise at home to seek their fortunes in this last outpost of empire. They continue coming, even though it is not clear whether they will be allowed to stay after Hong Kong reverts to China in 1997. "People phone me every day saying they can't find work in England," said, Michael Eskridge. The total number of foreigners has risen from 207,000 to 340,000. Others come "because the job situation here is quite good. 

Tuesday, Sept. 27 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

or medicine, and many die of curable diseases. 
Officials declared Surat a disaster zone and rushed in millions of capsules of antibiotics. 
"No deaths in 24 hours, that is since 5 p.m. on Sunday until 5 p.m. today," said Kundan Lal, a city administra­tor. 

Frantic 911 call from missing teen 
ARLINGTON, Texas 

A frantic 911 call from a teen-ager being abducted left far more questions than answers. "They're trying to break down my door! Hurry up!" 16-year-old Lisa Rene told the 911 dispatcher at 8:11 p.m. Saturday. The dis­patcher then heard a scream. When police arrived at 
8:13 p.m., she was gone. The sliding door of the apart­ment was smashed in. In a recording of the call, Lisa can be heard talking to someone and asking who they are. A man answers, ''I'm with the FBI." A muffied scream is heard seconds later, with the man saying, "Who you on the phone with?" The line then went dead. Family and friends issued an appeal Monday to her kidnappers. "Tell them to please let Lisa go," said Pearl Rene, her sister. "Call if you want something, whatever it is, just call us. Please. Just let her come home," the missing girl's sister said. 

Teen recants charge of sexual abuse 
TAMPA 

Kimberly Mays, the teen who was switched at birth, accused the man who raised her of sexually abusing her for years, then admitted she made it all up, authorities said Monday. The 15-year-old could face a charge of fil­ing a false police report against Robert Mays, said Phil Ramer, head of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement's Tampa office, which investigated the case. She "needs professional help," Ramer said, explaining that officials have no way of forcing her to get counseling. Kimberly has spent six years in the custody battle. 

The Accu-Weather~~~> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 2Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. FRONTS: ............... ...a....a... ............ COLD WARM STATIONARY  7. C 1994 Accu·Waalher, Inc.  
Pt6$1Wt6 H L HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  

Atlanta  81  54  Dallas  81  61  New Orleans 77  54  
Baltimore 82  69  Denver  77  51  New York  72  66  
Boston  69  60  Los Angeles 92  70  Philadelphia 80  65  
Chicago  71  52  Miami  82  74  Phoenix  96  76  
Columbus 76  49  Minneapolis 75  46  St. Louis  63  55  

US continues talks with N. Korea 
By CAROLYN HENSON 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 

North Korean and U.S. nego­tiators made another attempt Monday to resolve differences over pursuing new talks on opening North Korea's nuclear program to outside inspectors. 
They scheduled another ses­sion for Tuesday after consulta­tions with their capitals overnight. Neither side would say whether any progress was made. 
Washington is trying to per­suade North Korea to allow U.N. inspections of two sus­pected nuclear waste sites that could reveal whether plutonium has been diverted for nuclear weapons in violation of North Korea's treaty obligations. 
Western experts think North Korea has produced enough plutonium to make at least one nuclear bomb. The hard-line communist regime in Py­ongyang insists its nuclear pro­gram is peaceful but has blocked U.N. inspections it pre­viously agreed to. 
In return for allowing inspec­tions, North Korea has a U.S. pledge of help to replace it old-
fashioned nuclear reactors with 
· ones less suitable for producing plutonium. But Pyongyang is balking at getting hardware from rival South Korea, which Washington contends is the only option. The latest round of talks be­gan Friday and almost instant­ly ran into problems. The U.S. side asserted Satur­day the North Koreans had gone back on previous agree­ments. The North Koreans said Sunday that a joint American­Japanese naval exercise off the Korean coast was an attempt to pressure Pyongyang. 

Zulu leader under investigation 

By DONNA BRYSON 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 

The African National Congress called Monday for an investigation of the Zulu nation­alist leader after he and his bodyguards stormed a televi­sion studio and scuffled on air with a political rival. 
Home Affairs Minister Man­gosuthu Buthelezi's heavy­handed attempt to silence a po­litical opponent was the latest twist in his power struggle with the Zulu king -and evidence of tensions that could explode into widespread fighting. 
The scuffle at the South African Broadcasting Corp.'s studios in KwaZulu-Natal was broadcast live, and viewers saw a handgun in the hands of one of Buthelezi's bodyguards. It was unclear who the gun be­longed to, and no shots were fired. 
Buthelezi, head of the Inkatha Freedom Party, said Prince Sifiso Zulu threatened him with the gun. But Zulu and SABC chief executive Zwelakhe Sisulu said the gun came from a Buthelezi bodyguard. 
"Buthelezi's actions, seen by millions of TV viewers all over South Africa, amount to a frontal attack on freedom of speech and freedom of the press and are incompatible with the provisions of the Con­stitution," the ANC said in a statement. 
Fourteen ANC lawmakers is­sued a separate statement, say­ing Buthelezi's behavior was especially troubling because of 


Interested in acting? Have no experience? 
his status as a Cabinet member. 
Buthelezi, in an interview with SABC on Monday, said he thought the program was no longer being broadcast when he confronted Zulu. 
"I therefore wish to apologize to viewers if they were dis­turbed in any way," he said. 
The tussle was the latest de­velopment in the deepening feud between Buthelezi and King Goodwill Zwelithini for the loyalty of the nation's 7 million Zulus. 
Last week, Zwelithini severed ties with Buthelezi, his cousin and the nation's most powerful Zulu leader, in a bid to break away from years of domination by the Inkatha leader. Prince Zulu claims to have replaced Buthelezi as a top aide to the king. 


Have lots of experience? 
Come to the first organizational meeting of the 
" 

s:Notre marne Student ::Players 
Wednesday, September 28 at 6:15pm in the Dillon Lounge For more info, contact Stephen (255-3545) or Mike (x1644) 
Take Kaplan and get your highest score! 
-
Kaplan gives you: 
• 
Dynamic teachers • Actual released tests 

• 
Computer analyzed testing • And now, test prep software 


Call 1-800-KAP·TEST 
KAPLAN
The answer to the test question 
By MAUREEN KOBZA 
News Writer 
With its plan to expose nurs­ing students and those in health care fields to what is available for their future, Saint Mary's is sponsoring a Nurse Career Day. 
All students and faculty are invited to look at career options, internships, and employment opportunities and to speak with representatives and alumnae from several dif­ferent hospitals and health care centers Wednesday evening at Saint Mary's College. 
Along with the distribution of informational handouts, inter­views will be conducted to pre­
page 3 

pare students and to help them to learn what to expect, what hospitals are looking for, and what is required in their fields. 
Careers in nursing, health care, and social work services in hospitals will be represented to give students a "round about view about what they are up against," said Christine Der­went, career counselor. 
Charter Behavioral Health System, Holy Cross Care Ser­vices, St. Joseph's Medical Cen­ter, U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army Nurse Corps will be pre­sent. 
The Nurse Career Day will be held Wed. from 3:30-5:30 p.m. in the LeMans Hall lobby. 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 27, 1994 
Clinton mute on arms pledge C.linton defends Haiti, 
By BARRY SCHWEID did not say: whether he intends forces, might escalate the con­
seeks cooperation
Associated Press to honor his pledge to provide flict in the former Yugoslav re­
UNITED NATIONS 

Bosnian leaders have asked the United States to reconsider any push for early lifting of the 
U.N. arms embargo because it could work against them in their conflict with the Serbs, 
U.S. Ambassador Madeleine Albright said Monday. 
Other U.S. officials told The Associated Press that President Clinton would propose a resolu­tion on Oct. 15, as promised to Congress, but they said it may call for a delay in lifting the weapons ban or ask that it be conditioned on the Bosnian Serbs' actions in the former Yugoslav republic. 
In some parts of the Bosnian government there is growing concern that immediate lifting of the embargo "may not be the wisest idea," said a senior U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity. He said some Bosnian leaders feared the Serbs might respond with a major offensive. 
Clinton devoted only 90 words to Bosnia in his U.N. address Monday, and what may be most significant was what he the Muslim-led government with weapons. 
Albright, in a news confer­ence afterward, said, "It is evi­dent there are consequences to the Bosnians" if the embargo is lifted. 
However, she denounced as inaccurate various newspaper accounts that suggested Clinton was searching for a way out of his promise to Congress to pro­pose a resolution to the U.N. Security Council by Oct. 15. 
"There is some discussing of timing and modalities," she said. "This was a Bosnian ini­tiative brought to the U.S." 
At the same time, Albright acknowledged Clinton was hav­ing difficulty persuading Russia to support a lifting of the embargo. 
But the ambassador said Russia was trying to persuade Bosnian Serbs to accept a pro­posal to end the war. It would require the Serbs to relinquish about one-third of the territory they have captured. 
In U.N. corridors, administra­tion officials said the Bosnians were apprehensive that an in­flux of weapons, even to their 
With bodies cleared, locals still struggle 
By EDITH LEDERER 
Associated Press 
GOMA, Zaire 

The piles of rotting bodies that lined the road from the Rwandan border are gone, and most of the 850,000 refugees who turned Goma into a cesspool of death and despair have moved to camps outside town. 
At first glance, Goma looks much as it did before July, when the quiet backwater town was swamped with the biggest, quickest refugee exodus in his­tory. Streets are clean. Drivers honk their horns incessantly. Shoppers in the market swat flies and haggle over prices. Young men get drunk on potent banana beer or the local Euro­pean-style brew. 
But a closer look reveals the legacy of the refugee occupa­tion: Hundreds of trees have been cut down or gouged by refugees desperate for fire­wood. Flower beds are gone, trampled by thousands of feet. The cost of living has increased sharply, rents have skyrocketed because of the influx of foreign relief workers, and the town's roads, schools, sewers, drain­pipes and traffic circles have been damaged. 
And there is a lingering fear -fear of fresh killings, new epidemics, and another mass influx of refugees. 
To the world, the name Goma has become a synonym for the almost unimaginable misery of the Rwandan refugee crisis. But the residents of the town in eastern Zaire know another Goma -and they want it back. 
Over the past two months, the vast majority of refugees who once squatted in every avail­able inch of space in the town have been moved to camps sev­eral miles outside 
Some refugees refused to leave, and still sleep in unfin­ished churches, closed schools and empty buildings. Others walk miles from the camps to beg or sell relief food in the town market. 
refugee tents, locals and refugees listen to the radio for news of Rwanda. Almost all conversation centers on rumors of Tutsi reprisals, Hutu prepa­rations for future military oper­ations, and possible new flights of refugees. 
For local Zairians, getting most of the refugees out of Goma was just the first step: They want them out of the country. 
"They have destroyed every­thing -all the forests, flowers. They brought diseases and peo­ple died," said Kahanya Kimuha Tassi, the regional administrative director. "We'd like to see them going back very soon." 
Guillaume Baurti, 33, who sells soap, candles and batter­ies in the market, said the number of pickpockets had increased "and they're all Rwandans." 
He complained that refugees got better medical care and food than the locals because they're helped by relief organi­zations. 
The refugees, mostly Hutus fearing retribution, fled to Zaire after the Tutsi-led rebel army overthrew Rwanda's Hutu government in July. More than 500,000 people, mostly minority Tutsis, were killed by Hutu troops and militia in an orgy of ethnic violence that exploded after Rwanda's Hutu president was killed in a suspi­cious plane crash April 6. 
Before the refugees arrived, Goma's population was 197,000. Now, Goma's mayor Mashako Mamba Sebi esti­mates it is triple that. 
Surrounded by four towering volcanoes and nestled on the banks of Lake Kivu on the Rwandan border, Goma boasts breathtakingly beautiful scenery. 
Nyiragongo Volcano belches smoke and lights the night sky with an orange glow. Some lo­cals believe it is about to erupt and wreak divine retribution on them and the refugees. 
Like much of Africa, Goma is public. "They don't want to be ByTOMRAUM U.N. appearance with a seriesannihilated," said one official. 
Associated Press of meetings with world leaders. 
U.S. officials said that Serbia He meets separately today with had sharply reduced its deliv­NEW YORK the leaders of Azerbaijan, Ro­
ery of weapons to Bosnian 
President Clinton is seeking mania and Mexico. On Sunday,Serbs since President Slobodan international support for limit­he held talks with U.N. Secre­Milosevic promised on Aug. 4 to ed military intervention in tary-General Boutros Boutros­seal the border. and that claims regional conflicts while encour­Ghali and with the president of by Prime Minister Haris Sila­aging people in strife-torn Bosnia, Alija Izetbegovic. 
jdzic that hundreds of tanks 
nations to resolve their own After that session, a senior
and trucks were getting problems. administration official an­
through at night were wildly In an address today to the nounced $20 million in new as­exaggerated. 
United Nations, his second as sistance for Bosnia to help itsThey acknowledged all "seep­president, Clinton was defend­economy and to run the gov­age" had not ceased, but said ing the U.S. occupation of Haiti ernment in Sarajevo and aborder crossings were sharply while offering $30 million in promise to ask Congress for anreduced. 
new U.S. aid to Bosnia. additional $10 million. 
Last Friday, with Secretary of Aides said he was still making Another $10 million alreadyState Warren Christopher re­changes in the speech just an is in the pipeline to the formerversing his initial insistence on hour before he was scheduled Yugoslavia.
delay, the Security Council 
to speak to the General Assem­Clinton was expected to tellvoted with U.S. support to sus­bly. the United Nations that the U.S.
pend some of the sanctions on The president was expected policy in Haiti is working, de­Belgrade. 
to cite the military role in Haiti spite uncertainties and violence Christopher cited the station­as a last-resort example of how such as what flared over theing of scores of monitors on the 
the international community weekend.
border. 

can work together to spread "There is no question that the democracy. cooperation between the United Clinton, in his speech Mon­
The conflicts in Haiti and States, the U.N. and NATO is
day, described the situation in Bosnia were getting top billing one pointing to a direction ofBosnia as improved except in as Clinton prepared to address how many regional problemsSarajevo. He said the capital the world body, celebrating its can be solved and worked on"once again faces the prospect 50th anniversary. together," U.S. Ambassadorof strangulation." 
The president was mixing his Madeleine Albright said. 
ANNOUNCI~G TWO NEW CREF ACCOUNTS 
YOU'RE LOOIUNG AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. 
WE RECOMMEND BOTH. 
Introducing the CREF Growth Account and the CREF Equity Index Account. 
W
hether you want a fund that in the Russell 3000®,** a broad index of selects specific stocks or one that U.S. stocks. covers the market, we're on the same page. Like our CREF Stock Account, which Our new CREF Growth and CREF combines 'active, indexed, and foreign Equity Index Accounts use two distinct investing, and our Global Equities strategies for investing in the stock mar­Account, which actively seeks opportuni­ket, but both aim to provide what every ties worldwide, the new funds are managed smart investor looks for: long-term by experienced investment professionals. growth that outpaces inflation:" They're the same experts who have helped 
The CREF Growth Account searches make TIAA-CREF the largest pension for individual companies that are system in the U.S., managing over $130 poised for superior growth. In contrast, billion in assets. the Equity Index Account looks for more To find out more about our new stock diversification, with a portfolio encom­funds, and building your portfolio with passing almost the entire range of U.S. TIAA-CREF, just call 1 800-842-2776. stock investments. It will invest in stocks And take your pick. 





Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SN 
•• •The new fun~• an ~vail.able for Retiremut Annuities auhject to the tenna ofyour inatitution'• plan. They are available for a.ll Supplement&J Retirement Annuitiet. The Ruuell 3000 ll a rt&lllc~ trademaril. of tM Fran it Ruuell Company. RuneII it not a apon.or of the CRE.F Equity ln.Jex Account and j1 not affiliated ...rth it · way Por more complete information. includift! chu-ges and ~llpentn. call_ I ~2-2733, en. 5509 fM a CREF ,.,.pectua. Rud the pro.pectut anf'ully befon: yuu invest or-~~uy ." CREF cert•llcatea are d•atnbuted by TIAA-CREF IndividUAl •nd lnttitutiona1 Scrvicca, Inc. money 
In cafes, bars, homes and a place of stark contrasts. 
----~-----~-----~ 
Base refugees return to Haiti Clinton defends Haiti 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 

The first group of Haitian 
refugees to leave detention at 
Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in 
Cuba since U.S. troops moved 
into Haiti got a warm welcome 
home today. 
Thousands of people gathered 
at the port for the arrival of the 
221 Haitians, who were greeted 
by U.S. Ambassador William 
Swing, given the equivalent of 
$40 each in Haitian money and 
taken to the local bus station. 
In the past, refugees who re­
turned have been harassed, 
taunted and insulted by police 
and army-backed thugs. 
The refugees, most young 
men but also some families with young children, left for Port-au-Prince aboard a Coast Guard cutter Sunday. 
"This is a good thing because not only are these people happy to go home, but they're creat­ing more room for the people who remain," said Brig. Gen. Michael J. Williams, comman­der of the task force running the refugee camp at Guan­tanamo. 
The boat people, picked up at sea as they attempted to reach 
U.S. shores, volunteered to re­turn after U.S. officials visited their tents. 
Representatives of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees were counseling refugees to ensure they were not being coerced into return­ing. 
U.S. officials hope all 14,000 Haitians at Guantanamo will choose to return, but say they are not forcing anyone out. 
Many don't want to leave as long as the junta that ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aris­tide three years ago remains in power, said an Air Force chap­lain at Guantanamo, Capt. EtT­son C. Bryant. 
The accord reached last week calls for Aristide to return to power by Oct. 15. 
The U.S. set up the camp at its Guantanamo base June 27 when President Clinton ended the policy of automatically re­turning all Haitian boat people intercepted at sea. 

GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT 
Friday, October 7 -Saturday, October 8 8:00p.m. (24 hours) 8:00p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection companionship and conversatio.ri. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place: Mary's Solitude at the back of the St. Mary's College Campus. 
Planning: Graduate students interested in this retreat are invited and urged to a~tend a one hour meeting Monday. October 3. 7:00-8:00 p.m., in the F1scher Graduate Community Center in order to help plan the retreat. 
Deadline: Reservations will be accepted until Wednesday, Octobers. 
Contact Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-8606 or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. 
-Cost: $15.00 for the cost of meals and snacks.
= 

Be mesmerized by one ofthe world's greatest hypnotists 

Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 

policy, lifts sanctions 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

Citing "a moment of oppor­tunity" for democracy, Presi­dent Clinton lifted travel, trade and most other U.S. sanctions against Haiti on Monday and urged other nations to follow suit. 
Clinton told the U.N. General Assembly that lifting the sanc­tions would hasten rebuilding of the impoverished country and was being done "in the spirit of reconciliation and reconstruction." 
He suggested the sanctions were no longer needed, with American and other forces firmly in place in the Caribbean country to enforce the U.S.-bro­kered agreement to restore exiled president Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power by Oct. 15. 
But Clinton said some sanc­tions would remain in force ­including a freezing of bank accounts and other assets ­against Haiti's military leaders and their supporters. 
The U.S. govern:rnent has a list of 600 people with ties to Haiti's military junta who will remain under the sanctions, officials said. 
A week after American sol­diers and Marines landed peacefully, Clinton said the op­eration demonstrates that "progress can be made when a coalition backs up diplomacy with military power." 
At the Pentagon, meanwhile, Defense Secretary William Perry cautioned that while U.S. troops are being greeted "as friends and not invaders" in Haiti, it is critical that humani­tarian aid begin flowing to maintain that idea. 
Taking note of the violence over the weekend in Cap­Haitien, Perry said that U.S. forces have been told to defend themselves and that the Marines involved in the shoot­out had acted within the mili­tary's rules of engagement. 
He cautioned Congress anew 
about setting a specillc date for 
a troop withdrawal, saying that 
would "complicate our military 
operations." 
Clinton's lifting of the U.S. 
embargo on Haiti came as 
more than 200 Haitians who 
had fled their homeland board­
ed a Coast Guard cutter at the 
U.S. base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to return to Port-au­Prince. 
Aristide himself had urged an end to the sanctions on Sunday. A trade ban was imposed by the Bush administration after Aristide was deposed in a 1991 coup, and additional sanctions, including a ban on commercial flights and the blocking of financial transactions, were imposed earlier this year. 
Critics have ar ued that the people hurt most have been the hungry populace -not the leaders -of the poorest and most crowded nation in the Western Hemisphere. 
Regularly scheduled commer­cial air flights between the United States and Haiti were expected to be resumed in a matter of days. Other travel re­strictions and the freeze on fi­nancial transactions were also ended. 
"I urge all other nations to do the same," Clinton said. 
A U.N. trade embargo on Haiti remained in force, on paper at least. But it seemed unlikely it would continue to be enforce given Clinton's appeal. 
"Essential civil order will be restored. Human rights viola­tions will be curbed .... The mil­itary leaders will step down, the democratic government will be restored, President Aristide will return," Clinton said. 
With troops and aid from more than two dozen nations helping in Haiti, Clinton said the international community was "giving the people of Haiti their chance at freedom. ... All have contributed to this moment of opportunity." 
Lifting the embargo on Haiti was the highlight of Clinton's 25-minute speech to the General Assembly, his second address to the United Nations as president. 
More broadly, he also pro­posed a new arms-reduction initiative, calling for negotia­tions to remove the danger of some 85 million anti-personnel land mines in place around the world. 
"Ridding the world of those 
often-hidden weapons will help 
to save the lives of tens of thou­
sands of men and women and 
innocent children," the presi­
dent said. 
Turning to Bosnia, the presi­
dent said the situation around 
Sarajevo had deteriorated and 
the capital of the former 
Yugoslav republic "once again 
faces the prospect of strangula­
tion." 
He said a "new resolve" was 
now needed by the United 
Nations to enforce its resolu­
tions, although he did not elab­
orate. 
Clinton cited U.N. actions in 
both the former Yugoslavia and 
in Haiti as examples of how the 
body can work with individual 
nations to promote democracy 
and relieve suffering. 
As for the United States, 
Clinton said, "We will use 
diplomacy when we can, but 
force if we must." 
Pro-democracy supporters, 
emboldened by a shootout on 
Saturday between Marines and 
Haitian military police that left 
10 Haitians dead, have become 
more open in their demonstra­
tions in Haiti's two largest 
cities. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
TOLEDO. SPAIN 
Thurs. Sept. 29. and Fri. Sept. 30 at 8:00 pm 
INFORMATION MEETING KI'l'H PROFESSOR CARLOS JEREZ-FARRAN
101 DeBartolo Hall 

Tuesday September 27, 1994
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office for $3 
4:30pm 140 DeBartolo 
Returning students will be on hand lo answer questions 
~----------------~ --­
page6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 27, 1994 


r--------------------------------------, HOW TO HANG ON TO YOUR DOUGH. (WITHOUT CRAMPING YOUR STYLE.) $:n Separate "needs" from "wants." Hint: A bed is a need. A Mr. Microphone is a want. _(l:n Split the bill but only pay your share. Why put in for someone else's swordfish if all you got was soup? $:n Set aside money for emergencies. Unless you'd rather call your parents for it instead. $:n Keep your eye on your wallet. Have a Citibank Classic card in case you lose it. The Lost Wallet5M Service can get you emergency cash~ a new card usually within 24 hours and help replacing vital documents. ''Based on available cash line.  <( z "'­0 -"' "'0  

-----------------------------~------~~----------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 27, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page7 
British flock to Hong Alzheimer's apparent in dogs 
Kong for eDlployDlent ~~RIMER~ 
By NANCY SHULINS 
DAVIS, Calif. 

For much of her life, Sadie had it all: good health, a fine home, a family that adored her. But with old age came senility, robbing her, bit by bit, of her personality. 
Once known for her hearty appetite, she now picked at her food, sometimes wandering off in the middle of a meal. She began getting lost in the only home she'd ever known. A life­long extrovert, she now sat for hours staring blankly at the wall. 
Test after test came back normal. But the signs were all there: memory loss, confusion, inappropriate outbursts. The doctors were quite certain. They'd seen it before. 
Had Sadie been human, she might have lived out her days in a nursing home, or been cared for at home by round­the-clock nurses or aides. 
But Sadie was a dog, a 17­year-old Dalmatian, and so her life ended quickly and merci­fully with a lethal injection. 
Her story, however, goes on. 
Sadie's family donated her body to the University of Cali­fornia at Davis, where re­searchers examined her aged brain and found something remarkable. Buried within the tissue were protein deposits identical to those found in the brains of human Alzheimer's patients. 
Alzheimer's disease is a pro­gressive brain disorder that impairs memory, thinking and behavior in 4 million Ameri­cans. No cause or cure has been found. 
Scientists have long known that aging primates -mon­keys, bears, dogs -can de­velop the amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles that are the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. 
What they don't know is whether these neurological signs are the animal equivalent of Alzheimer's or simply the more general signature of an aging brain. 
The answer may rest in a locked kennel at UC Davis, where 40 aging beagles pass their days playing with toys and with each other. Their primary job: to grow old. 
As they age, protein deposits form in their brains that are remarkably similar in size, structure and location to those found in humans with Alzheimer's. 
Periodically, the beagles go swimming in a huge above­ground pool. The surface is covered with colored beads. Hidden beneath the beads is a submerged platform the dogs have been previously shown. 
The time it takes them to fmd the platform gives clues as to their memory ability. The tests are repeated months later. 
Michael Russell, head of the Canine Aging Project and an assistant professor of anesthe­siology and otolaryngology, says the results so far have been intriguing. "In the first test, the old dogs learned faster, but their memory was shot. When we retested 19 dogs a year later, the young dogs did better. The old dogs forgot where the island was." 
That's significant because in­ability to recall new events is a primary symptom of Alzheimer's in humans. "People with Alzheimer's will sit and tell you what happened 20 years ago. But one reason the illness is so upsetting is that it's very common for a relative to come in and a patient to say, 'You're not my daughter.' The patient is remembering a much younger child.'' 
The Canine Aging Project, funded by the National Insti­tutes of Health, started a year and a half ago. Russell had just put his own mother in a nurs­ing home. At the time, she was thought to have Alzheimer's disease, although doctors have since attributed her dementia to a series of small strokes. 
For animals as well as for humans, Alzheimer's can't be definitively diagnosed without an autopsy. So far, of the dogs in Russell's study, only those with painful or terminal ill­nesses have been put to sleep. The rest live out their natural lifespans, typically about 16 years. 
As they die, the dogs' brains are examined for plaques. The findings are then checked against the animals' perfor­mance in the water maze, for evidence of a connection be­tween neurological signs of dis­ease and memory loss. 
So far, only eight dogs have died. But researchers have ex­amined archived tissue from more than 150 others that died at university clinics or that were used in previous lifespan studies. 
Several patterns have emerged. Whether a dog de­velops amyloid plaques de­pends on which litter it came from, suggesting some prenatal influence. "We also think there's a relationship between breed and heredity," Russell says. 
None of the dogs has devel­oped plaques prior to age 10. That's also the age when other serious illnesses start to ap­pear, according to clinical records of more than a thou­sand dogs kept by university veterinarian Dr. Russell White. 
"Something happens at age 
10 that correlates with other 
disease processes," Russell 
says. "There is a mechanism 
that allows these events to oc­
cur, some threshold or trigger 
event. I don't know what it is.'' 
The length of a dog's life may also play a role. Big dogs, such as Great Danes and Saint Bernards, have shorter lifes­pans than small dogs, such as poodles and beagles. They also are far less likely to develop plaques. 
By JOHN LEICESTER Associated Press 
HONG KONG 

The thump of piledrivers and screech of cranes are the music of opportunity to young Britons who have fled the economic malaise at home to seek their fortunes in this last outpost of empire. 
They continue coming, even though it is not clear whether they will be allowed to stay after Hong Kong reverts to China in 1997. 
"People phone me every day saying they can't find work in England," said one of them, Michael Eskridge. "The longer the recession goes on in Eng­land, the more tradesmen are leaving to look for work else­where, and they are hearing that Hong Kong's a booming place." 
Eskridge, 28, arrived eight years ago, intending to return home when the job market in Britain picked up, "but it hasn't done, so I decided to stay here." 
He now runs a construction company with 25 employees, all Britons. 
On this day, they were gutting an old building in Wanchai, the wlony's raffish nightclub dis­trict. 
For Hong Kong Chinese, that is something new. They are used to the British as colonial and financial masters, not as sweaty laborers in muddy shorts and sneakers. 
"I seriously think they are amazed," said Richard Lee, a 31-year-old site foreman from Leeds. "They think the Great White Person from England doesn't do nasty work." 
A workmate chipped in: "They don't expect us to de­mean ourselves by doing the hard labor." 
As the men toiled on a hot morning, passers-by stopped and stared. Some said they weren't surprised that foreign­ers were attracted to Hong Kong, but a Chinese construc­tion worker said such jobs were unsuitable to the "gweilos." 
"They look stupid to me," he said. 
Hong Kong is so short of la­bor that it imports workers. More than 2 1/2 million people are unemployed in Britain, and because Hong Kong is still British soil, Britons can land and go straight to work. 
They are laborers, plumbers or carpenters, or waiters and bartenders in the myriad pubs, nightclubs and fish-and-chips shops that cater to the British population. 
There is little overt resent­ment among Hong Kong Chi­nese, who are moving out of menial work and into white­collar jobs. 
The colony's British popula­tion has grown by 25 percent since 1989, to 20,000. The total number of foreigners has risen from 207,000 to 340,000 in that period. 
Many of the foreigners repre­sent Western companies look­ing to expand in Asia. Others come "because the job situa­tion here is quite good, espe­cially when compared to Western countries," said Eric Chan of the Immigration Department. 
Some of Hong Kong has rubbed off on Eskridge's men. They were using bamboo scaf­folding at the building site, and the heat made cold Cokes preferable to mugs of tea. 
Andy Williamson, 28, said he left a $37,880-a-year job as a manager in the London subway system two years ago to travel. His money ran out in Hong Kong and he now earns the equivalent of $65 a day work­ing for Eskridge. 
·-----------~~~--~~-~----------~ 
30Days 
Unlimited Tanning 
Around the Corner 
SUl}StUd10 • '27t:;;t};;
L-------------------------------------------------­
1--------------1 
APfferry 
, I 


VIEWPOINT 
pageS Tuesday, September 27, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran AdV<=nising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ................. , .......... Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Conuoller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­
tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdi~ 
torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those: of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
ACTUAL SIZE 
I

, ' 



• LIFE AFTER fiNAlS 
Senior-Bar and Red Field revisited 
myself an expertin but, as an econ.Om.• that I know more .U.VI'O~KV person. TOWn and. any economist will tell of unions is to raise the 
thet·eby lQ~>dil'l~g the employer to cut eliltDl(JI'VeiMille.• or she hires, tl:te:teby · 
CJ&ltmUlg t.IJlis. tllleoll'V to. be the view of all .. seem to forget ~at ntu~~r "'"'"''"""'~ schools of thougl:ttJn "'"'"~uuc· ....~., Keynesian schopl. mu•Yn<ii.Cu Keynes p()fut~ nuliill>er o.t ,f&C\lOI'S influenced unem­wages. However. the · U~tle that can be called too many theories Cot 
What better way is there to start a Notre Dame weekend? 
As I stepped out of the Michiana Regional Airport that Friday night, looking for a taxi to take me to cam­pus, four gorgeous young ladies pulled up in a Jeep and asked, "Do you need a ride?" 
I never had seen them before in my life, but they thought nothing about picking up a lonely hitchhiker on his way to see his Irish play Michigan. 
This is just one example of the hospitality that becomes routine during these Notre Dame weekends. I call them that instead of "football weekends," because, while we all want to cheer Lou Holtz's men 
Paul 

onward to vic­
tory, these 
the Senior weekends are Bar is
Pearson

more about Alumni getting together Central on with old frifmds these week­
and being part of the Notre Dame Family than about tickets or touchdowns. 
I didn't need to worry about a: hotel room. Two of my friends who now are seniors offered to put me up in their dorm room. In exchange for this service, I filled their refrig­erator with beer. 
It is the best deal you ever will find in South Bend. If you know anyone still on campus, I suggest you be nice to them, in case you ever win the Great Alumni Ticket Lottery. 
Then there's the Alumni-Senior Club (or "Senior Bar," as it is more commonly known), where anything can happen on a Friday night, and usually does. 
One of these days, National Geographic is going to send a pho­tographer there to capture the weird and wild life that can be found amidst the beer stains and narrow doorways. 
For example, this Friday night, a dozen young men, hopefully under the influence of alcohol, decided to run line-blocking drills on the dance floor. (I say "hopefully," because it would be tragic it these people were stupid enough to do this sober.) They lined up six to a side, and on the cue of "hike" they charged into each other, and into the nearby people who were trying to dance or converse or otherwise have fun without hurting anybody. 
However, 
it is easy to 
tolerate 
stunts like 
that when 
you realize 

ends. As you squeeze your way through the subway-like crowds, you run into all sorts of people you haven't seen in years. 
For that moment, you feel like you're a carefree student again. Job pressures and loan bills are lost in the shuffie as you talk about the time when you drove to Chicago and ended up looking for your car for hours... 
This reunion atmosphere is ampli­fied tenfold on Saturday morning, when the entire campus becomes a giant tailgater for four hours. After spending the first three hours roaming Red Field, a parking lot just a little bit smaller than Lake Michigan, I found some more friends from my student days and caught up on all the news and gos­sip. 
Then, there is the game itself. The Stadium. The Band. Sgt. McCarthy. The Sea of Green. The Chills down your spine as you hear the Fight Song again. The blisters that develop on your hands after three hours of clapping. The empty feeling in your stomach as Michigan hits a last-second field goal to pull ofT the upset. (Wolverine quarter­back Todd Collins Summed it all up when he said, "We out-Notre Darned Notre Dame.") 
But if you think that's all there is to a Notre Dame weekend, you obvi­ously never have been in the dorms a half-hour after the game. For the past few years, my old Planner Hall has held a quiet little "football Mass" after each game. There, win, lose or draw, fans of both teams can sit down and reflect on what truly is important in life. (Here's a hint: It does involve Hail Marys, but not the sort that Doug Flutie made famous.) 
All these things mean that, even though the Irish lost a heartbreak­er. it did not ruin the weekend. A mere football score cannot ruin something like this. 
As always, it was an interesting weekend, from the fabulous pick-up at the airport to the taxi ride back to the airport Sunday afternoon, when the taxi driver told me the story about how he once stopped a would-be robber by accelerating to 60 miles per hour and promising to take his assailant with him. 
Talk about your long-odds situa­tion. 
Paul Pearson is a 1993 graduate of Notre Dame and a former news writer for The Observer. He cur­rently works as a writer/editor for a tri-lingual weekly newspaper in Tampa, Florida. 
• DOONESBURY 

YOU '3/Z, 8&CAUSE: OF OUR. OBVI­OUS APVANTAG&S, W6U fORa 
YOU 70 RJJNA 91/IRPtR. OPERATION­
MUCH MOR& f(Xl)SaJ ANPRE­5RJNS/V& TO YOUR Cl.J57DMEIS I 
\ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
HUK., YE-':31 IIJtLL, GOSH/ IT'S AU. PART YOU'PW OfOUR. TOif:iH ?HATFOR /.OV& PROGRAM 
M&? fOR t(){AL R£­
TA!t&RS.t I
\ 

• Quon: OF THE DAY 
''At
no point in my life have I ever felt as though I were an American."
. . 
-Toni Morrison 

ACCENT 
Tuesday, September 27, 1994 page 9 
Toastm.asters helps students im.prove com.m.unication skills 
By ANDREA JORDAN 
Accent Writer 
Speaking in front of an audi­ence may terrify some people or simply put them on edge. Whether or not a person falls into this category, he or she may still want to contemplate joining a group called Toastmasters. 
Some may have never heard of Toastmasters until now, but not to fear. This article will provide one with the necessary information for deciding if this group is for them. Toastmasters, which is preva­lent at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, is a non-competitive, informal, international. public speaking group. It helps people to become comfortable with speaking in front of an au­dience or even speaking one on one. 
Each session opens with the telling of a joke and the session contains different forms of speaking which someone will do. These forms are an impromptu, an improv, an on­the-spot, a show and tell, and a speech . 
Wh(m doing an impromptu speech a participant receives a card and must speak on that topic for about two minutes. An improv is a game that tries to involve as many people as possible. As for an on-the-spot, a speaker volunteers from the audience to answer a question. Show and tell is a speech that requires a person to simply speak about an object present. Finally, a person is required to deliver a speech. 
At Notre Dame. Toastmasters meets once a week on Tuesdays at 7 p.m. at Hayes-Healy in room 222. There are sixty to seventy members, but about thirty to forty members present at each meeting because of schedule conflicts. Two to three times a semseter a speak­er comes to the meetiing and gives information on things such as interviewing. "Practice makes perfect when it comes to public speaking," according to Nathan Ebeling , president of Toastmasters at Notre Dame. 
At Saint Mary's there are three Toastmasters group. Toastmasters I meets Wednesdays at 6:30 p.m. in the LeMans Boardroom. Toastmasters III meets Thursdays at the same time and place. Toastmasters II does not have a specific time set at the present moment. 
"Toastmasters promotes self­confidence with speaking, not only public speaking," Jennifer Hardebeck, a junior and presi­dent of Toastmasters at Saint Mary's said. "Toastmasters is for anyone in any major. It will benefit everyone." 
Amy Dabbler, who is vice­president of special events of Toastmasters at Notre Dame, remembers that she and Ebeling began attending Toastmasters as freshmen. They are currently both juniors and have held offices in Toastmasters since their sopho­more year. 
According to Dobblaere, everyone is welcome to attend and for their first time they can sit and watch without having to participate. All are welcome to drop by one of the Toastmasters sessions. It could be an enriching experience for anyone, not just for the shy, silent type. 


• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Workout tips for building the perfect beast 
By JOANNE PAVIN AccemWriter 
Another football weekend is over, you put tailgaiting Tom away until next Saturday, the body says sleep, but the brain says business law, biology, and get off your butt and get busy. 
You feel drained, you need a "little pick me up", an energiz­ing boost, but your body feels like a ton of bricks and you just can't seem to pull yourself out of bed. 
You hear your conscious. Devil food cake Dan is in one ear telling you to hurry to the dinning hall before all the chunky chocolate brownies are gone, but Hank the Hunk Hercules is hanging in the other ear telling you to get to the gym and build those bulging biceps before Bonny the beauty starts going for Bob. Decisions, decisions. 
You start contemplating and then realize Bonny will last a lot longer than those brownies and you need to start building those biceps again. 
It' s hard to begin building that body when the compo­nents involved are complex and difficult to understand, however once they are broken down to a comprehendable level they will become a neces­sary reference in your work out world. 
The musculoskeletal system is extremely complex and beyond the scope of this article, but one important component to understand is skeletal mus­cle. 
Skeletal muscle is composed of threadlike protein strands called myofibrils which contain the contractile proteins actin and myosin. 
It is important to know that muscle is made up of 22% pro­tein, the remaining 70% water and 8% fat storage, and that in order to build muscle a suffi­cient amount of protein in the diet is required. 
Skeletal muscle is also made up of three types of fillers: slow twitch, fast twitch, and inter­mediate or fast twitch oxida­tive. Slow twitch muscle fillers are used in endurance exer­cise. 
They have less strength and are relatively smaller than fast twitch fibers, but they consist of a dense capillary network which supplies an abundant amount of oxygen making them resistant to fatigue. 
Fast twitch muscle fillers are larger and stronger, contract in an explosive manner, but fatigue quickly because of their small capillary supply ( small supply of oxygen). 
Intermediate or fast twitch oxidative fibers are large and strong, contract quickly, have good blood supply, but still fatigue more slowly than slow twitch fibers. 
Slow twitch fibers are recruited during aerobic activi­ty or long duration activity such as walking, jogging, or low intensity aerobics. 
Fast twitch fibers are recruit­ed during anaerobic activity or short duration high intensity activities such as sprinting. Each person and each muscle within has a different combina­tion of the three types of fillers. 
Some have a high percentage of slow twitch and thus are better at endurance activities, some have a high percentage of fast twitch allowing them more strength, but quicker muscle fatigue. 
Whether or not you possess more high twitch or slow twitch fibers is also dependent on genetics. 
Once you have the set num­ber of fibers you neither lose nor gain more of a certain type. The fibers can only grow through muscular strength and endurance training. 
Muscular strength and mus­cular endurance can be altered with regular exercise. First, you need to determine whether you want to build muscle mass or muscle tone. Building mus­cle mass incorporates muscle strengthening while building muscle tone incorporates mus­cle endurance. 
Strength refers to the maxi­mal tension or force produced by a muscle or muscle group. Strength can be measured by determining how much weight can be lifted in a single effort. 
Heavy weight training or power lifting can be used to improve muscle strength. To enhance muscularity or improve strength, training intensity should be high and number of repetitions low. 
Movement should be per­formed at controlled speed so that there is a consistent appli­cation of force throughout the movement. Movements requir­ing strength are performed pri­marily by the fast twitch mus­cle fillers and are anaerobic. 
Strength training is stressful on connective tissue and the muscular structure of the body. It is recommended to limit heavy strength training to three times per week in order for muscle tissues to repair themselves. 
Strength training causes muscular hypertrophy, or mus­cle growth, which is caused by a general increase in the size or diameter of muscle cells which comes as a result of an increase in the muscle content of contractile proteins. 
This occurs in the fast twitch 
muscle fibers which are most 
capable of hypertrophy. 
Women do not experience this to the same extent because the male hormone testosterone is important in synthesizing the contractile proteins. 

Muscular endurance refers to the ability to repeatedly con­tract a muscle or muscle group against resistance. 
Endurance can be measured by the number of repetitions that can be counted without resting, sit ups and pull ups are an example of this. 
Light weight training can be used to enhance muscular endurance. For maximum Skeletal muscle is also made up of three types of fillers: slow twitch, fast twitch, and inter­mediate or fast twitch oxida­tive. 
Slow twitch muscle fillers are used in endurance exercise. They have less strength and are relatively smaller than fast twitch fibers, but they consist of a dense capillary network which supplies an abundant amount of oxygen making them resistant to fatigue. 
Fast twitch muscle fillers are larger and stronger, contract in an explosive manner, but fatigue quickly because of their small capillary supply ( small supply of oxygen). 
Intermediate or fast twitch oxidative fibers are large and strong, contract quickly, have good blood supply, but still fatigue more slowly than slow twitch fillers. 
Slow twitch fibers are recruited during aerobic activi­ty or long duration activity such as walking, jogging, or low intensity aerobics. 
Fast twitch fibers are recruit­ed during anaerobic activity or short duration high intensity activities such as sprinting. 
Each person and each muscle within has a different combina­tion of the three types of fibers. 
Some have a high percentage of slow twitch and thus are better at endurance activities, some have a high percentage of fast twitch allowing them more strength, but quicker muscle fatigue. 
Whether or not you possess more high twitch or slow twitch fillers is also dependent on genetics. 
Once you have the set num­ber of fibers you neither lose nor gain more of a certain type. 
The fibers can only grow through muscular strength and endurance training. 
Muscular strength and mus­cular endurance can be altered with regular exercise. 
First. you need to determine whether you want to build muscle mass or muscle tone. 
Building muscle massresults exercise should be performed three to five times a week using moderate weight and high repetitions (20-50). 
Muscle endurance increases vascularity, or the rate at which blood supply and oxygen is delivered to the myofillrils. 
It also increases the concen­trations of oxidative enzymes which extract oxygen from the blood in the specific muscles trained. 
Overall it increases the aero­bic capacity and enhances glycogen storage within the trained muscles which delays fatigue. 
It is clear to see that building mass versus muscle tone require two totally different workouts. 
You need to decide which is best for you and your genetic build. You have to work with what you have, make the best of it, Hercules is in all of us waiting to be unchained. 
Now that the muscle basics have been layed down, you can tell Devil Food Cake Dan to get lost, join Hank the Hunk 
Hercules in the gym, say hello to Bonny and tell her to say bye, bye to Bob! 
The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 


page 10 Tuesday, September 27, 1994

NOTICES  NEED A ROOMMATE? 2143.  CALL 255­ WANTED 3 GA EITHER NO VS STAN, BYU CALL COL 215-355­ I need 2 NAVY GAs Will pay Big $$$ Please call Laura at  I NEED STANFORD GA's X4-2193  Need 2 Stanford tix Call Gary 800­227-4000, ext. 612 M-Thr 12-4.  
FEMALE MODELS 18-25 needed  7131  284-4328  Need Stnlrd stdnt or GA tixs, call  PRIEST in need\ of 3 Stanford  
IIIIIATTENTION SOPHO­MORESIIIII The Class of '97 Service Project will be kicking off the year with a house painting project on Sunday, 1 0/9. It will be the first of many projects with the Northeast Neighborhood. Help us get off to a great start and help us help others. Talk to your Sophomore Class Council Dorm Rep, or call Brian at x1 058. Thanks -trust us... *******YOU WILL HAVE FUN!*******  by photographer for photo/video work in lingerie and similar apparel. Call Jim at 273-7074 for info. FOR RENT THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­n3-2034  CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­ets to the Stanford game. Alum REALLY wants to return to campus with family. Student tix ok. Price negotiable. Call collect alter 6 pm (516) 499-5009. HELP! I need 2 TIX to the Stanford Gamel Call Patty at 1-800-697-9141,1eave message. WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR  NO Grad student seeks 4 Navy GAs to take family to game Call271-7276 HELP! I need 1 Stanford GA (or married) Monica X2995 Need 3 Stanford Tix, GA preferred Call 234-6843. Ask for Dan Manley. Willing to buy my parents' love ... with 2 GAs to either Stanford, BYU,  Chris x1197 Please! I need 4 NAVY GAs and 2 STANFORD GAs! Mary Beth x4220 Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call Sue at 277-8995 Help! I need two Stanford GA's call Jen at 273-0741 I need 4 Navy GA's please!!II Mark x1640  tickets lor family. Call288-9514.d WANTED: 1 STANFORD STUD/GA! CALL Rachel #4-4093 Help!! I need 2 BYU and 2 Navy GAs. Call Monica X4091. Bevin needs 4 Stanford GAs. Call X2533 and sell them to her. SALE Stanford & Navy stud. tix­Belen x4285 SELLING STANDFORD STD TICK­ 
Parents, Alums, need room for  KATE@ 271-0224  or Navy!  $$$$$ Erin -289-5490  NO Family Reunion Need 4-6 STANFORD GA's  ET AND BOOKLET. LUIS 2731528  
USED TEXTS CHEAP! Ill Buy & sell used books at the only hip place in town 10-6M-S/9-3Sun PANDORA'S BOOKS NO ave & Howard St 233-2342  games. Comfortable home, walk to campus. 2n-7371 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC EVENTS.  I NEED TWO NAVY G.A. CALL MIKE X3692 NEED 2 TICKETS FOR STAN­FORD GAME SO PARENTS CAN SEE FIRST NO FOOTBALL  I bet you can't sell me your 10 Stanford GA'sll Call Jon x3367 I need 2 Stanford GA's Call Katie at X2845  Family has airfare, now we need tickets!! Call x3650 HEY! Do you have 2 stu. tix or GA's for AIR FORCE??? PLEASE call Shan x4456 I  PERSONAL WANTED: New Mama. Call Ugly Babies. x2286  
219-291-7153.  GAME. CALL MARIANNE X3295  YOOHOOI Where R U? 3 chicks  
PAPA JOHN'S is HIRING! -delivery & inside personnel -Hexible schedule  1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS  $$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs. Please call Lisa at 2n-0740. Will  Please Please Please Please I need 4 Stanford GA's  NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE AND STANFORD! CALL BOB *1233  looking 4 NICE guys & cant find any. If UR out there, write to The B. U.S.  
-top pay -10-40 hour schedules available -112 price pizza -EOE ca11211-11n Downtown Book Wholesaler needs clerical &/or warehouse workers flexible schedule & wkend work 232-8500 X22 ask for Bryan ILOST & FO~D I  PROPERTIES. 272-6306 Looking for Student Tenant clean ,furnished, 1-bedroom apt. $275. 607 E. Corby-3 blocks west of N.D. Ave. Deposit, references,8D0-582-9320 FOR SALE RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO  pay top dollars.$$$ Need BYU TIX (prefer GAs) will pay good money or will trade tix to any other home game Call Dennis at (914)294-6546 Need 3 GA's for Navy or Air Force; make an offerl Paul-2n-6433 Need 1 Stanford stud. orGA Call Nick 289-9708  Will trade Navy GA's or buy. -Bryan x1190 *********************************** I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX LETS MAKE A TRADE I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE DENISE X2549 I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX LETS MAKE A TRADE I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE  Need 2 STANFORD GAs for dad and bro. TOP $$1 Anna x2286. NEED 8 STANFORD TICKETS. CALL GRANT 416-865-n41. WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S FOR 2 BYU GA'S. CALL SIGI AT 312-477-3357. I NEED ONE AIR FORCE TICKET­GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CALL X3816. THANKS!  672 Lemans Hall I need a "Drink like a champion today" !-shirt please. Call Mud at X2569 Play Ultimate! We're Open Early, Late, & Weekends!!! 00¢ THE COPY SHOP 0¢0 LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  
FOUND: Bracelet in DeBartolo; call Susan 2n-1124 ...... REWARD ***** A $250 REWARD GOES TO ANYONE WHO CAN RETURN MY 1991 CANNONDALE RED SHRED COMPETITION SERIES  SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­ERYCALL: COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959. Tired of walking? CLASSIC 1972 NOVA, 4 Dr, 61K, Auto, PS, New Tires, Runs Greaatl Some rust, $1100, Leave message 299-1n4.  NEED 2 GA BYU tix and 2-6 GA Stanford tix. Please call Rachael at #4667. NEED 2GA's for NAVY & NEED 4 GA's for BYU CALL Chris x-1353 I need 2 Stanford GA's x1659 Desi  DENISE X2549 Need 1 GA Stan. BYU or A. F. Matt 3571 NEED BYU GA'S. CALL ERIN #4015 $1 NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S$ CALL AMY X2652  Help! I need two Stanford Student tix or GA's. My alum brother is fly­ing in from California and will lock me in the closet (like he did when we were kids) If I don't have tix for him! Please help! Cyndi 284-5322. NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S. CALL AARON X3460.  ET IN ARCADIA EGO Interested in the secret histories of covert social forces? Seeking true power & wealth? Fascinated by the politics of opportunism & manipulation? Prepared to do what­ever it takes to get what you want? If this is your truth, you may be spiritually fit to join the Bavarian Illuminati.  
BIKE. A SMALLER REWARD GOES TO ANYONE WHO CAN GIVE ME REAL INFO AS TO ITS WHEREABOUTS. PLEASE HELP ME-SOMEONE IS NOW RIDING AROUND ON MY LIFE SAVINGS. -JANET  For Sale 20' (2X10') Mark Levinson speaker cords with goldtipped audio quest connects. $125 or best offer. 654-7887 (eve).  NEED 3 STUDENT STANFORD TXTS-X2377. HELP! I NEED TIX FOR STAN­FORD. PLEASE CALL MIKE @ X1243  HELP! PERPETUAL GRAD STU­DENT'S PARENTS HAVE NEVER SEEN AN N.D. GAME. NEED TWO NAVY G.A.S. CALL TIM AT 257­9581.  NEED 2 BYU GA TIX & WILL PAY BIG BUCKS SO CALL ME 1722 NO Alum Needs 2 STANFORD GAs, BIG$$! Call217-337-6862 Needed 2 GA for BYU 11111111  We will have our first meeting on Friday, Sept30, at 8pm in the lobby of the Architecture Building. Conspiratorial elitists & Machia­vellian personalities are welcome. No jokers/slackers/Discordians need attend. This is a serious offer:  
x1572 FOUND: A watch at the Observer Classified Department. Please come back to claim it.  93 Men's Cruiser Supreme 6 Speed Bike. Almost new. $150. 654-7887 (evenings). '71 M.G. MIDGETT RED CON­ NO Alums Need Stanfd. GA's Call (313) 420-1208 or (310) 813­5659 Long lost family and friends coming for STANFORD game! Desperately need 7 tixl Call Donald x1844.  NEED 1 STANFORD STUD OR GA. LESLEY 4819 Need 2 Standford tix Call Chris x3767 Need 2 STANFORD GA's  Call Ryan x3662. 1 GA for sale for all home games. Call me-Maria 273-8463 need 1 GA for BYU, AIR FORCE or NAVY! call ann x4544  come fulfill your destiny! I need a date for my SYR on 10/8 If you are a FEMALE, have a PULSE, and can BREATHE you're perfect give me a call x2136 ask for Sean  
FOUND: Small pair of keys outside of Zahm. To claim call Ed lmbus 4­3334. $50 REWARD-For the return of or info. leading to the return of 2 CO's: Pearl Jam "No -' Messiah" and Nirvana "All Acoustically". 272­4021 WANTED  VERTIBLE. SHARP, RUNS GOOD. $1,700. CALL 2n-3239. Multi-track Cassette Recorder. 4 tracks; 12 inputs. New $999; Sell $675. 2n-5912; 631-7133 CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­Minutes from NO-end unit on pond­181nF Stoneridge-2BR+Lolt, Fireplace, Att Gar w/Opener­$58,000-Call232-5190.  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. 272-7233. FLYING OUT FROM CALIFORNIA -DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO STANFORD GAMEl (916)671-3299 KEVIN Family flying from ALASKA for 1st NO game. Need 4 BYU ticks., stu. or G.A. PLEASE! Call shannon 291-6288  Please call Curtis-282-2197 I need Navy GA's PLEASE! Call Brandon at x-3460 1 slant. stud. ticket to sell call287-1449 PLEASE HELP: Holy Cross (MA) Women's and Men's X-Country Teams NEED Tickets to Stanford Game (GA or Stud) please call Ted at 4-1663  I need 4 Stanford GA's Call 234-1139 Need 1 stanford tix desperately! I Call Eileen at x4086 to negotiate! Elp-hayl 1-hay eed-nay oo-tay An­ford-stay ickets-tayl! All-cay lkki­nay at-hay X4081. Need 2 Navy GA's. Call287-1953 NEED 4 STANFORD ST. TIX HEATHER x2580  CHIPPER: Have you tried praying to St. Anthony for the return of my tickets? If all else fails .... try Pray! If that fails, I now have a BUTLER lor\life.... .life11r Do you need an Indigo Girls ticket? Of course you dol So what are you waiting for? Call Carol at x1522 But only if you're interested in the ticket or DA BEARS.  
\  EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS & GO FREE! BEST TRIPS & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT RESUME EXPERIENCEI1-800­678-6386!  Macintosh llsi 5-80 14" Color Monitor $1000 or best offer Kory X1644 FREE KITTENS-8 weeks old  NEEDED IMMEDIATELY: 2 GAs FOR BYU. WILL PAY TOP $$$1 CALL MARY AT 273-2926 NEED TIX-5 BYU GA'S, 4 STAN­FORD GA'S -Call Joe @ x2765  I need 2 GA's for Stanford. Mike 289-3203 I NEED BYU GA'S CALL JEFF @ 2n-8250 I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u can help, call Ron at x1736  Angry Airmen need Air Force GA's. Serve your country. Call x4816. Need three GAs for any home game. Call Matt at 289-2710 baaahh  WSND needs interesting people to be radio announcers for the following shifts: Thursdays 8-10 p.m. Fridays 2-6 p.m. Saturdays 12-3,3-6 p.m.  
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­ call nicole x4544 SCHWINN COLLEGIATE 3-SPEED  Beautiful Mormons desperate for 3 BYU Tickets-Call x2703.  Desperate for BYU GA Ted@4-3485 NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR STANFORD  Need 1 Stanford ticket­Kevin @ 289-3203 HELP!! I NEED BC GA'S. PLEASE  No experience is necessary. We will train, and even program your shows! You can even do home­ 
MOTE SPRING BREAK TO JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE TRAVEUCOMMISSIONS! SUN  BIKES, MAN'S & WOMAN'S, NEW TIRES, TUBES, COMFORT SEATS. $100 EACH. 277-2182.  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GA'S FOR ANY 2 HOME GAME GA'S  Parents coming from CALIFOR­NIA­CALL JENNIE AT 272-0108  CALL LIZ X2325. :) INDIGO GIRLS-NEED 2 tix! 271­1532  work. However, this is a non-paying position. Call Harriet at 1-7342 for more information. If she's not there, leave a message. She will get back  
SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-n10.  CALL JULIE 2845516  I need one Air Force GA or student  NEED UP TO 8 GA'S FOR STAN­ to you.  
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR ONE­HOUR AM EXERCISE CLASSES. PAID POSITION PLUS FREE EXERCISE MEMBERSHIP. CALL 2n-0111 FOR MORE INFO.  93 JEEP WRANGLER, Black, Hardtop, 6 cyV4.0 1., 31x10.50 Yokahama Superdigger Tires, 15x7 American Racing 5-spoke Wheels, Pioneer AM/FM,Cass, 6­Disk Changer, 15K mi. $13,500. 232-3658  NEED FSU TIX SUSAN 2771724 NEED STANFORD STUD. TIX CALL 234-8958. NEED STANFORD GA'S  ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please call X3822. Thanks! I need 2 Stanford GAs for my par­ents. Please call Tom at 271-9576. Thanks!  FORD CHRIS X1527 Want to trade my 2 Navy GA's (50­yd line) for 2 BYU GA's Call Chris x3767  Good luck PLS/L~AT buddies! If you're happy and you know it, clap your hands If you're happy and you know it,  
PHOTOGRAPHERS: NO Photo Dept needs student help. B&W lab exp. a+. Earn$, exp. 1-7350.  TICKETS  MATT 257-0564 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA  I NEED STANFORD AND FLA ST GAs-631-6696 CHRIS $$$NEED 2 STANFORD TIX  Need 1 Stanford student ticket, will pay $ or trade BYU ticket call Doug at 2112  clap your hands If you're happy and you know it Then your face will surely show it If you're happy and you know it,  
HELP WANTED:  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS  CALL X3526 $$$  NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S  clap your hands  
ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER  CALL CHRIS 4-3095  CALLX4570  
ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY NEWS SERVICES, 232-3205 OR 288-9361. PIZZA MAKER-PART TIME­EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD  WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. CALL 800-922-2327 JANET. I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA-WILL PAY BIG BUCKS-CHRIS 4-3095 WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD AND/OR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL  I DESPARATELY NEED 2 GA's to the Navy Game for my parents from NY ­Please help! Call Brian x1058-Thank you. ...................................... FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED!  Need Stan. GAs Eric x1087 I will trade 2 50 yd line Air Force Tix for 2 Stanford Tix or will buy Stanford Tix. Call Bob (818)5n­7849  Troy: We hope ttlat you have learned your lesson and will never go "hog­ging" again. We're just concerned for your welfare (and your repua­tion?).. Schmoo  
MONEY.  AFTER 5 PM 684-1304.  NEED: 4 NAVY  
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW YORK 257-1100.  4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED. CALL X2875 (NICKY)  I have 2 Navy GA's to trade for 2 BYU GA's. Call Joe x4024  4STANFORD CONTACT SEAN TRACY 222 GRACE 4-1861  SALE: 2ST AND/ 2BYU best offer leave mess 288-8680  Anna -Let's go dance really hard this weekend! Jeni  


• NFL 
Thomas, Bills down winless Broncos 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 

The Buffalo Bills and Denver Broncos both know the anguish of losing Super Bowls. The Broncos are learning a lot about the anguish of losing plain, old games. 
Thurman Thomas ran for two late first-half touchdowns and Carwell Gardner scored early in the third quarter as the Bills beat the Broncos 27-20 Monday night in a meeting of the losers of seven of the last eight Super Bowls. 
But the Bills didn't clinch it until John Elway threw out of the end zone from the 4-yard line with 21 seconds left in the game. 
Denver, considered a Super Bowl contender when the sea­son started, fell to 0-4. The only other time Denver began that badly was 1964 and it got Jack Faulkner fired as coach, a fate that could be awaiting Wade Phillips if Denver fans get their way. 
The Bills took advantage of two turnovers for two TDs for 14 points in their spurt. 
Thomas, who gained 103 yards in 17 carries before leav­ing with a right knee injury early in the third quarter, went in from 16 yards with 1:54 left in the half and from 27 with 18 seconds left in the half after Bruce Smith sacked Elway and forced a fumble. 
Then Gardner scored 1:42 into the second half after Mickey Washington's intercep­tion, the fifth thrown by Elway this year. 
The Bills (3-1) trailed 7-3 late into the second quarter against a team that had allowed an average of 37 points in its first three games and four starters to injury in the first 18 minutes -running back Rod Bernstine, cornerback Ray Crockett, offen­sive tackle Russell Freeman 
and defensive end Dan Williams. 
The Bills took a 3-0 lead on Steve Christie's 36-yard field goal with 4:28 left in the first period. 
Elway, who finished 26 of 45 for 280 yards, hit Anthony Miller on an 11-yard slant 1:18 into the second period to make give the Broncos their only lead. 
The drive was vintage Elway: a 31-yard strike to Shannon Sharpe on a third and 19 from his own 19 and a 22-yard scramble to the 12 set up the score. But on his next series, he missed Miller wide open for what could have been a long TD play. 
Buffalo appeared to take the lead on a 65-yard punt return by rookie Jeff Burris. But as the teams lined up for the extra point, referee Bob McElwee announced that a Bill had been holding on the play, negating the TD. 

So Buffalo drove 68 yards in nine plays with Thomas run­ning 16 yards off tackle with 
1:54 left in the half, Buffalo's first touchdown in eight quar­ters. 
Thomas scored again after Bruce Smith stripped Elway and Cornelius Bennett recov­ered at the Denver 27. On the first play, Thomas burst off the left side and into the end zone with 18 seconds left in the half. 
It got worse on the first series of the second half. 
But Denver came back, Elway leading a drive of 57 yards in nine plays capped by Leonard Russell's 2-yard dive for a TD. Then the Broncos drove 51 yards to set up Jason Elam's 28-yard field goal with 1:55 left in the third quarter and it was 24-17 .But Christie added a 28­yarder early in the third quar­ter after a 72-yard drive. Elam's 43-yarder cut it back to seven with 7:21 left. 

ZS Associates is a rapidly growing, entrepreneurial management consulting firm driven by 
creativity and enterprise. Just 10 years old, we work in 49 countries, employ 125 
professionals, and have offices on both sides of the Atlantic. 
We combine our knowledge of sales and marketing issues with sophisticated analytical techniques and innovative software tools to provide clients with real-world solutions. 
ZS offers career opportunities to talented people who want to make a difference. If you want the challenge of early responsibility, significant client contact, and ·an environment that rewards motivation and ingenuity, then consider joining our team. 
• 
Business Associates work as integral parts of the ZS consulting team to address a client's sales force or marketing issues. As a BA you will be involved in collecting and analyzing data as well as developing creative client solutions. BA's typically have bachelors degrees in Business, Economics, Political Science, Mathematics or History, though other majors are also considered. 

• 
Operations Research Associates build mathematical models and optimization algorithms to develop creative solutions for sales and marketing problems. As an OR Associate, you will perform statistical analysis and design simulations using workstations and personal computers. Qualifications include a bachelors or masters degree in Industrial Engineering, Operations Research, Statistics, or Mathematics. 

• 
Programmer Analysts work interactively with project teams on all aspects of database development. As a PA you will be responsible for maintaining ZS' systems, as well as creating new internal processes and tools. Qualifications include a bachelors degree in Computer Science or MIS. 


Sound interesting? Come and learn morel 
zs 
CHICAGO • PRINCETON • LONDON 
On Campus Presentation 
Monday, October 3, 1994 7:00 PM-9:00 PM Student Center LaFortune Room 
Innovation 
Opportunity 
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 
COLORADO 
...... 
NOBODY ODES SKI BR£AKS BETTER! 

tXT H a,. P.l A L 

-~~-----~---·~--~-~-:-------­
---~---------~---­
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS 
• MEN'S INTERHAll 

Four turnovers help Stanford doiDinate 
ByTODDRUTH Spons Writer 

• POWER Pou.. 
1. Stanford 1-0 It was domination from start 
2. Fisher 1-0 
to finish as No. 1 ranked 

3. Off-Campus 1-0
Stanford took on No. 5 ranked Flanner in the second game of 

4. Alumni 1-0 the Blue Division on Sunday. 
5. Keenan 1-0 "I was very pleased with the 
6. Zahm 0-1-0 
way we played," stated Chad 

7. Morrissey 0-1
Smock, Stanford captain. "Our offense executed the plays very 

8.St.Ed's 0-1 well. 
9. Carroll 0-1-0 Stanford dominated Flanner 
10. Dillon 0-1 
from the very first possession, 

11. Sorin 0-1
forcing a fumble then scoring 

12. Flanner 0-1
two plays later to go up seven to nothing in the first quarter. 

13. Grace 0-0 In the first half Flanner turned the ball over twice on 
• PLAYER OF THE WEEK 
three possessions, both of 

Chris Pollina 
which Stanford turned into two Along with a stellar defen­
touchdowns. 

sive effort, the StanfordStanford's first possession sophomore rushed for two
resulted in a eleven-play drive touchdowns in the Studs'
that resulted in a touchdown to thrashing of Flanner. 

put them up 21-0. 

Stanford's running back and coach, Chris Pollina dominated cated shoulder and might be in his debut. "Our offensive line out for the rest of the season. really held up well," he said. While Dillon gets a bye next 
Along with the offense, the week, Keenan faces Off­defense stood strong inter­Campus this Sunday who cepting two more times in the knocked off Morrissey 7-0. second half. 
"We've got to be as intense as Off-Campus 7, we were in the first game for Morrissey 0 our next one," said quarter­back Mike Brown. "We've also 
The battle between number got to keep our running game 
three and number four eruptedgoing and cut down on penal­
Sunday as Off-Campus and ties." 
Morrissey squared off. And a As for Flanner, they take on 
battle it was. Both of the teams Grace this coming Sunday. 
first possessions resulted in This is Grace's first game, and 
three plays and a punt to boot. with one game under their belt, 
The defenses were hyped up.Flanner can use that to their 
Morrissey's second possessionadvantage. 
compiled of five plays then another punt. But Off-Campus 
Keenan 7, 

took their offense to the air us­Dillon 6 ing quarterback Chris Hammond. 
Keenan and Dillon squared The drive consisted of six off on Sunday in the first game plays and resulted in seven for the Blue division. Keenan points while taunting Morrissey scored on their first possession on the way into the end zone. and converted the extra point "I am extremely pleased, but to take a 7-0 lead. Dillon's first we had a few minor break­possession ended in a punt, but downs," said George Reider, on their second possession the defensive captain for Off­Big Red threw a pass that Campus. resulted in a six point score. If Off-Campus was poised again not for the blocked extra point, to score in the second quarter, this game would have been but ran out of time as the first tied. half ended. 
The block came back to "We did all right, our offense haunt Dillon as the rest of the can run the ball," commented game was a defensive struggle. Off -Campus captain Dave 
"Our defense looks good, but Deltore. our offense needs help, we just The next showdown for the need to make some overall Off-Campus squad consists of improvements," captain Zack Keenan. who defeated Dillon 7­Budzichowski. 6. For Morrissey the champi­
Not only did Dillon lose the onship re-match is on. They game, but, their quarterback, take on Stanford who blanked Roy Gallager suffered a dislo-Flanner 21-0. 
PRE-PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY 
1st meeting of the year: 
Wed. Sept. 28, 7 p.m. 122 Hayes-Healy 
Guest Speaker from U. of Texas All pre-meds invited. 
Men's IH 
continued from page 16 
Zahm 0, Carroll 0 

In a battle of mistakes and missed opportunities, there was a standoff between Carroll and Zahm. 
After the Zahm defense dropped two would-be in­terceptions in the first half, things started to click on the offensive side of the ball. Zahm quarterback 
Benji Hammond hit standout receiver Rick Rios on deep side­line patterns and ran the option well, pitching to running back Travis Krahl, in order to put together the only solid drive of the game for either team. Yet as the Zahm offense seemed to be threatening, time ran out in the first half. 
Carroll opened the second half with tough defense. Ben Herrig's interception ended one Zahm drive, and a blocked field goal stopped another. 
When the Vermin offense seemed to find a running game, they went for the big gain with a halfback pass, which was picked off by Zahm captain Dave Bozanich. A few plays later Zahm threw another interception, putting Carroll in position to kick a long field goal with only a few seconds left. The kick fell short, mercifully ending the game in a scoreless 

tie. Carroll coach Marty Ogren was not overly disappointed 
r s1-800-TALK-USA s 
'J
with the result. 

America's Inexpensive way to call collect "It was a good, clean, hard 
l The fTIO(fl; save Mom & Dad, the fTIO(fl they have to ·syou I 
fought game," he said. 
C 

Grad Communities ND 
The Challenge ofAdult Christianity 
An opportunity for graduate and professional students and/or their spouses to share their Christian faith and experience in small community groups and to explore together the challenge of living that faith as young adult professional people. 
SUNDAY 2 October 1994 
Fischer Community Center 6:00 -8:00 p.m. Pizza Supper, Information, Beginning 
New groups will be formed. Continuing grouP.S will be on hand to share their experience. 
Reservations and Information: return the Application Form received in the mail and I or call John Gerber, C.S.C. at 1-8601 or Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by September 30. 
Fisher 6, St. Ed's 2 

The Fisher Green Wave defeated St. Ed's 6-2 in an evenly-matched football game. 
St. Ed's established their run­ning game early, handing off to halfback Mike Norbut, whose "north and south" running style hurt the Fisher defense. 
The only touchdown of the game came midway through the first half, when Fisher quarterback Brian Hertz hit towering wide out Dan McGinty on a 45 yard touchdown pass. The extra point was blocked, though, leaving the score 6-0. 
The Stedsmen tried to answer right back, as Norbut burst up the middle into the Fisher defensive secondary on a run of nearly 30 yards. That play left St. Ed's in position to kick a short field goal, but the kick did not have the distance. 
In the second half, the Fisher offense was shut down by the St. Ed's defense. After sacking the Green Wave quarterback, St. Ed's intercepted his next pass. The running of Norbut once again landed the Stedsmen in field goal position, but the kick was wide right. 
A bad punt snap by Fisher went out of the back of the end­zone, giving St. Ed's their two points for a safety. 
After the game, Fisher coach Chuck Hurley saw a need for improvement despite the win. 
"We need more continuity on offense," he said. "It's our quarterback's first time playing and I think he was a little ner­vous before the game." 

--~ ·~-~ ---~-----~-. 
IH 
team, and we are a team of The scoring started in the 
• COllEGE BASKETBALL
• POWER POLL
mainly sophomores and fresh­second half as Farley's Marie 
man." Hauck ran the ball in for a 
1. Walsh 1-0 
Blue Demons 
Angel player Amy Rybak stat­touchdown to give the team acontinued from page 16 
2. Off-Campus 1-0 though the score might not attempt failed since the receiv­
ed, ~we played well even 6-0 lead. The point after 
3.Lyons 1-0
"She made some really nice 
placed on
indicate it." er was out of bounds. 
4. Pasquerilla West 1-0-1 Off-campus's success began 
plays," he commented. 
5. Pangborn 1-0 
probation
Coaching duties for the off­This lead appeared to beto diminish greatly entering the 
6. Pasquerilla East 1-0-1
campus team were given to enough to enable Farley to win 
Associated Press 
second half. 
Michelle Drury who was unable the game until late in the game 
7. Siegfried 1-0-1 to play due to a broken clavicle. when in the closing seconds the 
8. Badin 0-1 
CHICAGO She lamented the fact that their Slammers' Jen Laurie caught a 
Questions arose from the ofT­
DePaul's basketball teamcampus sidelines as Knott 
9. Farley 0-1-1
coaches were forced out of the pass to tie the game. 
was placed on probation forkicked off to begin the half. 
10. Breen-Phillips 0-1
game. The Slammers pass to convert 
one year Monday by the NCAA "We were heart-broken the extra point failed when it
Coaches Ysursa and Couri con­
11. Knott 0-2 
for violations involving a boost­because we love our coaches," was intercepted. McNeill was 
tended that the Angels kicked 
12. Lewis 0-1 
er who provided free apart­she said. "They did a great proud of the team's ability to tie 
ofT from the 40 yard line, giving ments and meals to some play­them an extra 20 yards. 
13. Cavanaugh 0-1
job." the game. 
ers.

The coaches brought up the 
14. Howard 0-0
OfT-campus will return to the "We played well together," 
However, the men's team field on September 29 to battle said McNeill. "We were able to
possible judgment error and remains eligible to play in
before they knew it, both 
• PLAYER OF THE WEEK
Pasquerilla East. Knott's next come back under pressure." 
postseason tournaments and game is on October 6. With the tie, Farley is cur­
coaches were ejected from the faces no television sanctions. 
game. 
Jenny Layden
rently 0-1-1 while Siegfried's 

The penalties include a Farley 6, record became 1-0-1. 
reduction in scholarships, offi­until we got penalized for un­Siegfried 6 two touchdowns and caught 
The Lyons' junior scored
"We were going to let it go 
cial visits and off-campus re­sportsmanlike conduct," said Pasquerilla West 6, everything thrown her way 
cruiting. Pasquerilla East 6 last week against B.P. 
There were no specific viola­we were getting penalized for Farley and Siegfried neither 
coach Ysursa. "It seemed like In a game hotly contested by 
tions found against coach Joey their (referees) mistakes." team ended up as the victor as In the battle of the This 6-0 lead held up until Meyer. However, David Swank, 
Due to the penalty, Off­both teams settled for a 6-6 tie. Pasquerillas, East met West East answered on a 50+ plus chairman of the NCAA infrac­Campus was forced back close Both teams battled for field and neither proved superior as yard run by Rosario Gonzalez. tions committee, said Meyer to their end-zone where they position throughout the whole the game resulted in a 6-6 tie. The passing game set up the shares the blame for the most missed a pitch to the running game and each defense proved Once again, the defenses played touchdown which tied the game serious infraction -failure to back thus giving Knott their up to the task of keeping the big and did not allow the other for good when Gonzalez failed closely monitor the program. first points of the game on a score as low as possible. The team to put the ball in the end­to cross the goal line on the As an example, Swank said, safety. first half ended in a scoreless zone. Pyro's extra point attempt. the booster sent envelopes 
tie. The first half ended in a with his name on them to play­
Off-Campus came back, scoreless tie despite the fact Pyros' captain Sue O'Kain ers in care of the school's bas­though, on a run by Sara Farley's captain, Julie that the defending champion realized the significance of ketball office. The envelopes Donnelly for a touchdown pro­Ehrman, praised the defensive Purple Weasels had good field tying the defending champi­contained keys to the apart­viding the team with their final play. position. onships. She highlighted the ments they used and tickets to points of the game. "Our defense played really "We felt we had many oppor­defense as the key to the game. professional sports events. 
Knott closed the scoring in well," said Ehrman. tunities," said West captain "Our defense was able to Swank said someone should the game on a touchdown run Magenis. "The offense wasn't keep Pasquerilla West down to have been suspicious of the en­and two-point conversion. Captain Marcia McNeill of clicking." one touchdown," she men­velopes. 
Despite the loss and an 0-2 Siegfried echoed these thoughts Pasquerilla West opened the tioned. But DePaul took action ofits record, Knott captain Kelly commenting, "We were frus­scoring in the second half as own against Meyer. The school Koski saw improvement. trated. We were close to the Lanny Le ran the ball in for a Both the Pyros and Purple froze his salary and won't 
"We are glad to be scoring," end-zone and couldn't punch it touchdown for the Purple Weasels are 1-0-1 after the tie negotiate his contract until the she said. "They were a tough in for a touchdown." Weasels. on Sunday. NCAA probation ends. 
Two ofthe most popular bundles 
on campus tllis year. 

Now you can really clean up when you buy aselect Macintosh' Performa7 For research resources. PIus ClarisWorks, an intuitive, integrated package with aspreadsheet, alimited time, it comes bundled with aunique new student software set available only word processor, database and more. Buy aselect Performa with CD-ROM, and you'll from Apple. It's all the software you're likely to need in college. You'll get software that also get amultimedia library of essential reference tools. And now, with an Apple ,_ takes you through every aspect ofwriting papers, the only personal organizer/calendar 
Computer Loan, you can own aMacintosh for less than adollar a Ap 1 • 
created for your student lifestyle and the Internet Companion to help you tap into on-line day: It's the power every student needs. The power to be your bese p1e . 


Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB · 631-7477 

....--------~---~ -------------------~--­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COllEGE fOOTBALl 

Frazier may be lost for season 
By J.L. SCHMIDT 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Tommie Frazier, quarterback for No.2 Nebraska and a strong contender for the Heisman Trophy, may be lost for the rest of the season because of a blood clot in his right calf. 
Nebraska coach Tom Osborne said Monday that Frazier was admitted a day earlier to Bryan Hospital. 
"It could be a few weeks, it could be the season. At this point nobody knows," Osborne said. 
Team doctor Pat Clare said the blood clot was being treated with enzymes and blood thin­ner. The clot has shrunk 25 percent since treatment began Sunday. 
"He's responsing very well," Clare said on the SportsDay MidAmerica Sports Network. 
An average person with a blood clot is treated with blood thinners for two to four months. he said. 
Frazier, a junior and key to Nebraska's option offense. will miss Saturday's game against Wyoming, Osborne said. Brook Berringer has been Frazier's backup. 

Quarterback coach Turner Gill said he spoke with Frazier on Sunday. 
"Basically I said he should just hang in there and try to keep his spirits up," said Gill, a former Nebraska star. "It's a down time for you right now. but you've got the best medical people to help you and some­thing good will come from this." 
Frazier left practice Sept. 19 on a stretcher with ice bags attached to his calf, but prac­ticed full time the rest of the week. 
"We knew he had a bruise and was sore, but then you get that every week," Gill said. 
On Saturday, Frazier was not declared the starter for the Pacific game until after pregame warmups. Osborne pulled Frazier and most of the starters early from a game Nebraska won 70-21. 
Frazier played in only two series. He led two touchdown drives that took 1:45 and 1:32 in the frrst six minutes. 
"Coach Osborne told me they didn't want to play me very much;" Frazier said. "I guess 14 points was enough. That's fme with me." 
Recycle The Observer! 

(basement of LaFortune) to help you improve those fundamentals. 
Course runs on 4 Tuesdays Sept. 27 thru Oct. 1~ at 7:00 or 8:15pm Cost is only $5 Geared to beginner and intermediate players 
Limited spaces  n  
SIGN UP NOW!  ~  
Questions?  "''"'0 caoa...  
Of AMlaKA  

HOW'S YOUR GAME ? IT COULD BE BETTER ! 
A 

BILLIARDS 
MINI-COURSE is being offered in the Gorch Games Room 
Osborne said Frazier may have been hurt Sept. 17 during the UCLA game, but Frazier later said he was not sure when he was injured. 
Frazier. from Bradenton, Fla., has started in every game since his first start as a freshman against Missouri in 1992. 
He sprained his ankle on the first play of the season opener against North Texas in 1993 and was sidelined after the sec­ond play of the game. He also injured his shoulder in Nebraska's victory over Colorado but finished the game. 
Since Frazier became a starter. Nebraska has been 20­1 in the regular season and has won two Big Eight titles. 
Frazier ranks fourth in the Big Eight in passing efficiency with four touchdown passes and a 116.2 yards per game average. He is ninth in the con­ference in total offense, averag­ing 130.25 yards per game. 
-------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 27, 1994 
•

Weary Belles shutout in pair of weekend matches 
BYJENNIFER LEWIS x SaintMary'sSportsEdiror 
. tY ' 

Traveling takes it's toll on the tired Belles~ Saint Mary's soccer team lost both matches in last weekend's game drop• ping their record to 3-5. 
The Belles drove six hours t(} face John Carroll last Saturday. John Carroll scored the only goal early Jn the first halt, making the finalscorel­
o, · 

Rita Juster, a I!;ey starter for the Belles wa~ ~nable to play he~aq~e of a .. sprained ankle. She is scheduled to'stll.y out for two mor~ weeks. .. '' . 
Two strikes were already against the Bell~s. according to Shari Matelski; 11:!; 
"The six hour drive and Rita's absence really hurt us this weekend." said Matelski. 
morning. Weather played a large factor in thi$ game, according to freshman Debi Diemer. 
There were three game 
·· delays due to lighting, prolong· ing the game to three in a half hours. The delays caused the Belles to exit the field into a heat~ facility. · 
"The tempeture kept chang· ing, said Diemer. "We would be ot,ttside getting warmed up and then we would get inside and get all tight ·all over again." 
"'We were jnst exhausted and the weather didn•t help us at all." 
The Belles failed to score against Wooster, loosing 4·0. "We never quite got our· selves together," said Matelski. The Belles will be traveling 

The Belles road-tripped to AHo Hope College this Thursday Wooster Coll(jlge early Sunday for yet another away game. 
-· 

UlliiHPIII 

They're hot. 

Notre Dame's fall sports teams have comined for an overall record of 28-7! 
Stop in at SUBWAY for a HOT Meatball, Steak and Cheese or Pizza Sub! 
7:30 SATURDAY NIGHT! I 
13th-ranked 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 

LOUISVILLE 
VOLLEYBALL 
JACC Main Arena ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 

( \~-··.. ·-\! 
···~ 
.... ~ :J:... 


-----------------------------------~ 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON 

PEOPLE ARE 50 STOPID tF YOU DISAGREE. 1 TI-\E'{ SHOULD PAY 1"\E '{OU CAN CALL 1"\Y TO LISTEN TO Tf-\EIR PHONE. POLL AT 
OPINIONS. 111-DOG-BERT. EACH CALL COSTS TWO DOLLARS. 
/ 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Part of a book 53 Rival of Brown 34 Down the-54 Aussie hopper 
1 Forlorn 35 Word of 57 Actor Cariou 4 Poker actions rejection sa First name in10 Is appropriate 36 Escape vehicles mysteries14 Actress 
37 Misprint 59 Flair

MacGraw 38 Mr. 60 Any person 
15 State boldly 
Kadiddlehopper 61 Son of Seth 

16 British title 39 In the past 62 Small piano 
n Cover 18Animated 
40 False temptress 63 The "o" in myope 41 Targets of Cheerios 20Type of lily 
40-Across 22 Neighbor of 
42Ta-ta 
DOWN 

Switz. 44 Fictional 23 Oriental tea 
plantation 1 Latin beat 24 Plant with 45Gypsies 2 1979 sci-fi hit cup-shaped 46 Cold dessert 3 Musical flowers instrument from 
490neofthe 26 Skirt opening Borgias Down Under 27 Communists 4 Collide head-on 
52 Rimsky­28 Clamorous Korsakov's "Le 5 Vietnamese and advertising Coq-" Nepalese, e.g. 6 Point of contention ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Match parts &Afore 9Tottoter 

..

10 Allegiance 30 S-shaped curve 43 Big quackers 49 Ontario tribe 11 Venetian 31 Resistance so Merit
44 Seat of power 

troublemaker units 51 Town near 
46 Philosopher

121982 Disney 32 Tiff Caen
Kierkegaardfilm 33 Okefenokee 

52 Dream pictures 

~~+:'-i 13 Work long and resident 47 Russian writer artist hard 34 Small combos Bonner 
55 Hiatus 

37 Strunk and 
1"'-+:;;,;,o,ioloiii.-.... 19 Works long and 48 Religious 56 Legendary
White's "The 
hard principle Giant
-ofStyle"
-=+~iiilll-7+:7-r.:-1 21 Portents 

38 Transport
-:':+.~+.:::-~-=+::::+:::'-! 25 Pindar piece 
...

40 Botanist's Get answers to any three clues
concern 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

":+.':+.::+.::-1 28 Beast of burden 41 West of 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

__.__._..L.;..I 29 Uproar Hollywood 


~0\'-1 TI-\~T l't~ oN T£l'i::­IJ\S\Ot--\, HA 0\f\tRt.~T FROI'J\ E'JERi80Di ELSE! I'!'/\ Ff><l'<\OVS! \MI'ORTI\t{f! 
DILBERT 

SI\Kt. E'./ERiO!-l£. I<NOWS 'WP..KI\, I'lL t<\£, E'-Jffi'{T\-H\'1G r DO USE M'{ NOW \'S N£.\'-15WORTI-\'{. PRESTIGE I'M fl. C\JL\VR~L ICON. Tb ENOOR5£ 
A PROO\JCT!

\ 
• 
SCOTT ADAMS 
.. 

SPORTS 
page 16 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALl. 

Belles look to-extend winning streak 
BY JENNIFER lEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's hopes to extend there two game winning streak by defeating North Park College this evening at 7:00 in North Park. The Belles defeated North Park last year in a three game sweep, winning 15-4, 15-0, and 15-5. 
"Last year we were in control of the entire match," said coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "They ran a real basic defense and of­fense. In essence, they played scrappy."

• 
In the past, away games have always been strenuous on the team. However, this year the Belles have reaching their des­tination early enough to get in the proper stretches. The two hour trip to North Park should not be a big factor in tonight's game, according to Schroeder­Biek. 
After this weekend the Saint Mary's record dropped to 4-4. North Park is not one of the Belles more difficult opponents, however this is a key game for getting the Belles back on track, according to coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
"We are hoping to boost are 
record  back  up,"  said  
Schroeder-Biek.  
Captain Kelley Prosser  will  

not be in the next four matches due to her sprained ankle in last weeks game. Captain Anne Lawrence will replace Prosser in the starting line up. Freshman Meg Kelly will set for the Belles being substituted by Captain Sara Stronzcek. 
"This weekend's matches brought us closer together as individuals," said Kelly. "I think it will help us win on the court." 

• INTERHALl fOOTBAll 

Are you ready for some interhall? 
Alumni, Fisher 
. 
wzn, Zahm ties Carroll 
By JACK MACLEOD 
Sports Writer 
The Dawgs of Alumni Hall beat the Sorin Otters con­vincingly 16-0, in a display of mistake-free team execution. 
The key to winning interhall football games is capitalizing on the opponents' mistakes. That is exactly what Alumni linebacker Matt Duddy did when he pounced on a fumble caused by a botched Sorin punt snap on the Sorin 7 yard line. Two plays later, Mike Denvir scored on a two yard run, giving Alumni an early touchdown lead. 
The Sorin offense re­sponded with the option. Running backs Cahill and Tucker ran well up the middle and outside. But when the Otters went to the air. Alumni cornerback Mark Turner was there to intercept. 
Then Dawg tight end Ryan Healy tobk over, catching three consecutive strikes, the last of which was a 25 yard touchdown pass from quarterback Conrad Hanson. 
The Otter defense came back tough in the second half, sacking Hanson on two con­secutive plays. 
The only scoring in the sec­ond half came when Sorin's offense was pinned deep in their own territory, as their quarterback was tripped up by mother nature in the end­zone, resulting in a safety. 
see MEN'S IH I page 12 




Ejections, ties highlight second week 
By LARRY VOIGT 
Sports Writer 
Captain Kelly Guerin led the Off-Campus team to victory last Sunday over the winless Knott Angels 22-10 in their opener. This victory, howev­er, was marred by the ejec­tions of Tom Ysursa and Pete Couri, off-campus's two coaches. 
Guerin and off-campus led from the start and never looked back. The captain intercepted the Angel's first pass play of the game and ran it back for a touchdown plac­ing Knott in a 7-0 hole. 
She continued to show her leadership on the playing field throughout the first half to build a sizable lead against the Angels, a gap from which Knott was unable to recover. She placed two more points on the scoreboard as she held Knott inside the end-zone for a safety. 
Guerin's scoring frenzy was highlighted later in that first half in a punt return. On fourth down, Knott was forced to punt inside their own end-zone. 
Guerin received the kick and weaved in and out of defenders to return the punt back for a touchdown to end the scoring at 15-0 at the end of the first half. 
Needless to say, coach Tom Ysursa was pleased with the effort and end result put forth by the team and Guerin. 
see IH I page 13 


of note...
Denver loses fourth straight 
Despite passing for 280 yards, Elway and the 
Look inside tommorow's Observer 
n Broncos come up short against Buffalo 
for a preview of men's soccer 
See page 11 




