-------------------~~-­
~150 YEARS. 


rn
~l!.. ;' 
€ 
' 
. ~ 
g
~i\tf' k 
.<!#

f -.. 
~· 
• SAINT ~ 
Y'S ~ 
t Cl I I I ''I 
t""' ~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Tina Lemker 
Ole! 
A trio of Mexican dancers perform at the Multi-Cultural Festival in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
• STUDENT SENATE 



Resolution asks for 'watchdog' commission 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
News Writer 
There needs to be a consistent student advocacy group on Notre Dame's cam­pus, according to Thomas Matzzie, interim Freshmen Class Council president, who submitted a working resolution at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
Matzzie's resolution was for the formation of an indepen­dent "watchdog" commission that would work for a "long term investigative and lobbying effort on behalf of students." 
Matzzie asked for a mandate that the Student Senate recog­nize the need for such an orga­nization. 
According to Matzzie, "Stu­dent Government is ineffective because of its solvent nature and the fact that they're forced by protocol to work coopera­tively with Student Affairs." 
Matzzie said in his resolution that the office of Student Affairs and its departments is "virtually unchecked in its authority over all aspects of student life." 
Student Government has al­lowed Student Affairs to "usurp many of the lobbying powers intrinsic to Student Govern­ment," according to the resolu­tion. 
The commission, Matzzie proposed, would have the re­sponsibility of documenting the testimony of individual students or student groups "as to their interaction" with Student Af­fairs "with regard to their poli­cies and actions." In addition, 
see SENATE I page 4 


Haitian coup leader Cedras' power slipping away 
By ANITA SNOW 
As for the provisional presi­Associated Press dent, U.S. Embassy spokesman Stanley Schrager said: "We PORT-AU-PRINC have no word on what Jonas­
His days in power slipping saint's plans are.... It's clear he away, Haiti's military leader cannot continue to occupy the wept Wednesday at a funeral palace." service for 10 of his men killed in a shootout with U.S. Marines Haitians, meanwhile, helped 
Even as Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras U.S. soldiers track down army­sat ramrod straight at the ser­allied gunmen who had terror­vice, staring at the caskets ized neighborhoods since the draped with the red-and-blue coup ousted Aristide from the Haitian flag, Haitians speculat­presidency only seven months ed on his imminent departure, after Haiti's first freely demo­along with that of fellow coup cratic election. leader Philippe Biamby and the The gunman, known here as military-installed government an attache, was forced to face of Emile Jonassaint. his victims Wednesday without 
Another leader of the his weapons. September 1991 military coup, After Samuel Chery was Lt. Col. Michel Francois, detained by the U.S. soldiers skipped town Tuesday for a -der a U.S.-Haitian agreement Cedras' two-story headquarters mer President Carter, he and and led away from a poor new life in the neighboring being enforced by 20,000 across the street. Biamby will resign after elected neighborhood in suburban Dominican Republic. American troops, including U.S. Cedras has vowed to remain President Jean-Bertrand Petionville, his victims banded 
The de facto leaders have soldiers surrounding the white­in Haiti but under terms of the Aristide returns to power next together and burned down his until Oct. 15 to quit power un-domed Presidential Palace and agreement worked out with for-week. house. 

Ideal Catholic health care position explained 
By NORA REGINA MEANY second fact was that the implementation of Medicaid News Writer Samaritan was "moved to com­and Medicare. She called these passion" to help the ailing man programs the "consummate 
According to Sr. Patricia in the street. The third was the Good Samarations." She said Vandenberg, C.S.C., Catholics care the Samamratin took to that man's trip to the moon can take the gospel into the bandage the ailing man's inspired a proliferation of med­workplace by becoming more wounds, and the fmal point was ical technology. like the Good Samaritan from the · willingness of the the Gospel of Luke. Samamratin to pay for the ail­She noted that although mod­
ing man's care.. ern medicine has made great 
At her noontime lecture at The point that the Samaritan strides in the fighting of illness Saint Mary's College entitled was so generous was the most and infection in the United "Health Care in America", important part of the parable, States, there are problems with Vandenberg cited this Biblical said Vandenberg. technology. fable to be the basic position "It (technology) is both costly any Catholic should have in "We, like the Good and time-consuming to teach," regards to the manditory health Samaratin, should be willing to she said. care plan that has been in the pay the price of proper health Vandenberg noted that works for almost two years. care .... and willing to pay more America is in great need of a 
Vanderbeng received a than necessary," she said. reform of morals. She stated degree from Duke University in Vandenberg said that hospi­that we, as a nation, have the late seventies. She is tals should return to the not­strayed from the origional President of the Holy Cross for-profit mindset that they teachings of Jesus. Health Care System. held in the begining of the cen­"Jesus said to live with 
Vandenberg said that there tury. She said that in the post­integrity. Love God and love were four main points to the World War II era, growing eco­your neighbor," she said. Good Samaritan story. The nomic prosperity lead to a pro­In conclusion, Vandenberg first was the fact that the indi­liferation of hospital funds. cited the health care statement vidual questioned Jesus what Vandenberg said that the he must do to have life. The 1960's brought about the 
see LECTURE I page 4 


~------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, October 6, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Can you

win with ethics? 
After three years of countless case studies, numerous nights at Hayes-Healy staring at Lotus 123 graphs, and enough discussions about the "real world" and "the business environment" to make the most diehard business major wince, my marketing curricu­lum is finally coming to an end this semester. 
I had learned the four "P's" and how to con­duct market research. I learned all about market trends and regression analysis. I felt I had the skills necessary to become a success­ful businessperson. With this knowledge I was ready to attack the "real world" with a vigor and intensity that few have seen. 
Then came the realization that this was not nearly enough to be a true success. 
Marketing Management is commonly defined as a "bridging course." Through the simulation of a computer market, teams of students duke it out over the course of ten weeks to see who can control the most mar­ket share and money at the end of the simula­tion. The course is designed to put you in an environment where all your marketing skills will be used. The competition is intense and builds as the weeks pass. Strategies develop that are designed as much for destruction of the other teams as it is for the success of their own team. The students play for keeps because the final scores determine a large portion of your grade. 
The simulation does indeed force you to use all of the skills acquired over your entire busi­ness curriculum. Most worrisome are the many intangibles of the "real world" and the "business environment" that have been over­looked. Namely, ethics in the simulation have been forgotten. 
Harvard Business School conducts a simula­tion game similar to Notre Dame's. In 1982, a group of Harvard students found the master computer code and broke into the leading team's program. They proceeded to steal the strategic information from that team and used it to win the game. Getting caught appeared to be their only mistake. 
The rationale behind the Harvard group's actions was that they were able to economi­cally justify their action because the gain from stealing the information was much higher than the possible consequences. 
The marketing simulation at Notre Dame has also made the bottom line king, with no mention of the ethical implications that could present itself. There is no code or guideline to follow for ethical violations. 
The students have been left to monitor themselves, with the only punishment (assum­ing they are caught) be\ng that they will have difficulty working with the other groups. 
Notre Dame has always held its students to higher standards and it seems to have neglected an important facet of a Notre Dame education. The university, by ignoring the eth­ical considerations, has in fact made them obsolete. 
Success in the simulation and in the real world is always more than just winning. Success is winning fairly and with profession­alism. Let's hope Notre Dame students are more concerned with being successful than with winning. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• Too.Av's STAFF  
News  Production  
Kate Crisham  Kira Hutchinson  
Ethan Hayward  Jackie Moser  
Accent  
Sports  Bevin Kovalik  
George Dohrman  Tom Roland  
Lab Tech  Graphics  
Nicky Batill  Tom Roland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
. . . '. "' 
' ... ·.......·.:.·.·...·. -·~-~~-"--'. ·... -.._.._... •. ' . _:....... "'... "' .. ~.. ·~·· 
' 

Jake Peters 
Editor in Chief 

• Wmn..D AT A GLANCE 
South Pacific earthquake relief encounters obstacles 
Incompetence caused losses 
LONDON 
Incompetence by managers at Lloyd's of London caused hundreds of millions in needless losses to investors when Hurricane Hugo struck and the Exxon Valdez spilled its oil, a judge ruled Tuesday. Investors who won a lawsuit against 71 agencies, many of them now bankrupt, in the Lloyd's market could eventually get a judgment totaling the equivalent of $800 million-the largest award in En­glish legal history, their lawyers said. The negligence by Lloyd's underwriters, famous for insuring everything from the Titanic to rock stars and jumbo jets, turned to financial devastation when the investors found them­selves overly exposed to five big disasters .. Lawyers for the investors, known as names, predicted this ruling could open the way for billions more in damages. "JustiCe has triumphed," said Michael Deeny, chairman of a group of 3,095 angry investors who went to court. They sought $1 billion, and believe the judge's ruling will allow them to receive about $800 million. Lawyers for the Lloyd's agencies that likely will pick up the tab predicted the payout could be much smaller. Justice Sir Nicholas Phillips said that in some cases, managers at Lloyd's made no attempt to calculate how much money they would lose if the disasters they had bet against happened. The investors should receive awards that will put them in the same financial position they would now be in had their underwriters taken adequate steps to reinsure their disaster coverage, the judge ruled. 

• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Thursday, Oct. 6 Accu-Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 6. 

Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
•

ILL. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vl8 Associated Press 

Atlanta 78 54 Dallas 91 Baltimore 63 47 Denver 75 Boston 58 47 Chicago 63 40 Los Angeles 73 Columbus 60 48 Miami 88 
.. 


Senators, Clinton salute Mitchell 
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell's 14-year career in Congress was celebrated on Wednesday night as President Clinton joined dozens of law­makers in saying goodbye to the retir­ing Maine Democrat. "He is truly a leader in the best sense," Clinton said. "He has vision. He tries to get things done that he believes are right. He has 
the skill to do it but because he's never lost the common touch, he is able to keep the trust and the confidence of the people who sent him here." Senate Republican leader Bob Dole of Kansas, who said Mitchell had always been a friend, couldn't help cracking jokes about persistent rumors that Mitchell will soon be appointed commission­er of baseball. "We're all here for the same reason," Dole said. "We want to get seats for the next World Series." Mitchell's fellow senator from Maine, Republican William 
S. Cohen, spoke of his retiring friend as "George Job Mitchell," in reference to the majority leader's patience. "George Mitchell comes as close to the ideal public ser­vant that I know," he said. "It's because of the promise of America that I was able to become the majority leader of the United States Senate," Mitchell said. Mitchell was appointed to the Senate in 1980 and elected to his first full term in 1982. He has been majority leader since 1988. 
67 Minneapolis 66 50 50 New Orleans 85 
62 NewYor1< 61 
50 64 Philadelphia 59 
49 75 Phoenix 81 68 
WASHINGTON 
.. 

Thursday, October 6, 1994 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page3 
Senate approves education bill 
By CAROLE FELDMAN \ssocia[ed Press 
WASHINGTON 
Turning back a Republican­

led filibuster over school 
prayer, the Senate gave final 
approval Wednesday to an edu­
cation bill providing billions of 
dollars to help students in im­
poverished districts, train 
teachers and reduce school vio­
lence. 
The vote was 77-20. 
The House already has ap­

proved the legislation reautho­
rizing for five years the Ele­
mentary and Secondary Educa­
tion Act. which expired Friday. 
President Clinton has indicated 
his support for the bill. 
School prayer advocates, led 

by Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
tried to block a fmal vote on the b_ill. Helms thought the prayer language included in the bill was too weak. 
"America is in the midst of an historic struggle between those who on one hand yearn for a restoration of traditional values envisioned by our found­ing fathers and on the other hand by those who contend that anything goes," he said. 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Mass., countered: "Those who are voting against ending this filibuster are voting against ed­ucation. They are voting against federal aid to hard­pressed local schools. They are voting against teachers and students. They are voting against major reforms and im­provements in the most impor­
'l""'" ·t.
~-· )<".~ 
.·I !,tt..•l)iJ. ·. 
~\'lE!btto'· l.)~ti:t(J
o....; ·.'(;, •• 0 

~~ .. 11:i~ a
~\·!ltr.W),t.


~~Ut~
Q'/JcuJ\\..~ 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR JAKSIC THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1994 
4:30P.M. 

120 DEBARTOLO 

ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME! 
t 
tant federal assistance for schools in every city, town and village in America." 
The Senate voted 75-24 to break the filibuster. The only Democrat voting against cut­ting off debate was Sen. Richard Shelby of Alabama. 
The legislation protects the right of students to participate in voluntary, constitutionally protected prayer and cuts off federal education funds to school districts found to have "willfully violated" a court or­der that they allow the prayer. 
Helms argued that involving the courts in the issue created an impossible hurdle for stu­dents and their parents. 
He preferred school prayer language that had been passed by the House but dropped when Senate and House negotiators settled differences between their separate version of the bill. 
The legislation authorizes $12.7 billion for fiscal 1995; $11 billion has been appropri­ated. 
MADELEVA 

Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff, CSC 
A Pictorial Biography by Maria Assunta Werner, CSC 
Educator of Women 
Past President of Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 
Founder of the First School of Theology for Women in the United States 

Nationally Known Poet and Author 
300+ pages, soft cover -Slf.J5 (l•dwl• $2.50for JHMI4t• a114 Jq114Ji,.r.) 
Milke cllecks payable to: 
Sisters of the Holy Cross Saint Mary's • Box 72 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

The FACULTY Series 




TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
FAMILIES and End-of-Life Issues 
A conversation with 
Mark Poorman, C.S.C.  arui  Susan Steibe-Pasalich  
Assistant Professor of Theology  Assistant Director,Connseling Center  
Director of the M.Div. Program  Assistant Professor of Psychology  

Tuesday, October 11 

7:30 p.m. at The Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Faculty, Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome 
Sponsored by: The Department The Center for The Office of of Theology Social Concerns Campus Ministry 


--Light Refreshments will follow -­
•

•
~ 
Congress suspends vote on GATT accord 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associa[ed Press 

WASHINGTON 
Struggling to save a huge global trade accord, Democratic and Republican leaders in the House agreed Wednesday to postpone a vote on the measure until after Thanksgiving. 
President Clinton had been pushing for a vote before law­makers went home this week. And as recently as Wednesday morning House Speaker Thomas Foley, D-Wash., said he was "firmly and absolutely committed" to that. 
But, in a letter to the presi­dent, Foley and the other lead­ers said the House would vote Nov. 29 on legislation imple­menting the accord signed un­der the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
At the insistence of Sen. Ernest F. Hollings, D-S.C., the Senate has already decided to vote on GATT on Dec 1, two days later. 
"The Senate decision to post­pone the vote has quite frankly undermined our ability to guar­antee bipartisan support for this effort in the House at this time," the House leaders said. 
They promised to work "to assure that GATT overwhelm­ingly passes the House." 
As a down payment, the House voted 298-123 Wednes­day night to approve the rules of debate for 123-nation GATT accord, touted as the largest trade agreement in world his­tory. 
U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said the "mani­festly clear, strong unwavering support" in the leaders' letter was "a major step forward" in ratifying an agreement that he said would create 300,000 to 700,000 U.S. jobs. 
The pact cuts world tariffs by an estimated $740 billion, re­duces other barriers to trade and extends the rules of world trade to services and intellec­tual property such as computer programs and drug patents. 
Opponents, including Hollings, say it will open American markets to a flood of manufactured goods produced in low-wage countries, destroy­ing jobs at companies making textiles, aircraft, automobiles and other goods. 
With the postponement, Kantor said, "we've taken the politics out of the debate. It will be calmer, more rational and more effective." 
But some rank-and-file Re­publicans, who hope to see their party make big gains in the Nov. 8 midterm election, complained that a lame-duck session would mean as many as 100 defeated or retiring House members would vote without any accountability to the electorate. 
"I think it is plain uncon­scionable that we bring this back in a lame-duck session. This important legislation should not be decided by mem­bers who have no political stake in the outcome," said Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif. 

--~--------~-------­
page4 

Closer to fine 

The Indigo Girls performed last night at Stepan Center. 







~~asyli,~t(il, 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baske,ts 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North 


(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 

"A HOT·BLOODED HUMAN COMEDY" 
·Janet Maslin, THE NEW YORK TIMES 

"A SEXY, LUSTY UNINHIBITED COMEDY" 
-Kevin Thomas, -•· -• ____ THE LOS ANGELES TIMES 
CINEMA AT THE SNIT E Friday & Saturday 7:30 and 9:45 pm 
The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 6, 1994 
ence," she said.

Lecture 
"I would say, in summary 
If you see news 

fashion that the mindset of continued from page 1 modern America is not of the 
happenin8,
Good Samaratin," she said. "As 

of the Holy Cross Sisters. 
a nation, we have lost our will 


call the Observer
"Compasssion compels us to 
to resolve this. When we look 

stand with and embrace people 
into the future, we could be 

631-5323in suffering. Together we 
overwhelmed." 

express God's healing pres-

Deloitte & Management
ToucheLLP 



Consulting
0 

Recruiting Presentation 
Representatives from Deloitte & Touche's Detroit Management Consulting Office will be on campus to discuss career opportunities in consulting. All interested undergraduate students are encouraged to attend. 
Who: Business I Information Technology 
When: Tuesday-October lith @ 7:00PM 


Where: University Club -Main Lounge 
Interviews are scheduled for: Friday, Nov. 18th 





Looking for fun and achanqe
from the usual ND scene? Join FLIP SIDE. AnewNDclub 
committed to providing great social activities not centered around alcohol. 
first organizational meeting: Thursday, Octobers, 1994 Foster Room, 3rd Floor Lafortune at 8:30 p.m. Light Refreshments will be provided. 
Questions? Call Mary at 4-4904 







Senate 
continued from page 1 

this commission would report periodically to the University community on their findings, which, he said, would not be "just in relation to disciplinary matters." 
According to Matzzie, the commission that he would like the Student Senate to mandate would be independent of the authority of any Student Gov­ernment Administration and would be under the direct au­thority of the Student Senate. It would consist of six core members from the Class of '97 or '98 that would be appointed by the Chairperson of the Commission, nominated and appointed by the Student Senate. 
Hilary Bonenberger, co-chair of the Hall Presidents Council suggested that the resolution include representation from each class. 
"Maybe the class presidents from each class (could sit on the commission), so that the entire student body is repre­sented, not just one class," she said. 
Matzzie said he hoped the resolution would be passed "by (Fall) break. 





Thursday, October 6, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

U.S. health care 01ost expensive Shooting rampage 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The U.S. health system is still the most expensive in the world by far and the spending gap with other major countries is widening, a new study indi­cates. 
The United States spent $3,094 per person on health care in 1992, or 13.6 percent of its gross domestic product, ac­cording to figures compiled for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
Most of the other 23 coun­tries tracked by the Paris-based OECD spent less than half as mucp. They devoted just 8.1 percent of GDP to health. 
In a report published Tuesday in the journal Health Affairs, the United States had the fifth highest infant mortali­ty rate -after Turkey, Portugal, Luxembourg and Greece -and the highest per­centage of low-birthweight babies. 

But it was near the top in life expectancy for senior citizens. 
U.S. men can expect to live 7.2 years beyond their 80th birth­day and women 9.1 years. Ice­land's octogenarians have the same life expectancy; in Canada the 80-year-old men live for 7.1 more years on aver­age and the women 9.3 years. 
"By comparative interna­tional standards, the American health care system is still by far the most expensive in the world, and the gap between the United States and other coun­tries is widening," said the re-
UNIYUSln' OP MOTU DAMil IHIUN.\110N.U. IT1IIIY PIIOGLUC 
lo 

MEXICO CITY 
SPRING 1995 1995-96 ACADEMIC YEAR 
INFORMATION MEETING Thursday October 6, 1994 4:30P.M. 206 DeBartolo 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
port by George Schieber and Leslie Greenwald of the U.S. Health Care Financing Admin­istration and Jean-Pierre Poul­lier of the OECD. 
It said per capita health spending keeps climbing faster than consumer prices. Since 1980, health care spending has grown 4.6 percent a year more than prices in the United States, 2.8 percent more in Canada, 3.4 percent in France, 
2.5 percent in Germany, 3.5 percent in Japan and 3.3 per­cent in the United Kingdom. 
Canada spent 10.3 percent of its gross domestic product or $1,949 per resident on health in 1992; Finland 9.4 percent, $1,363; France 9.4 percent, $1,745; Switzerland 9.3 per­cent, $2,068; Germany 8.7 per­cent, $1,77'5; Italy 8.5 percent, $1,497; United Kingdom 7.1 percent, $1,151; Japan 6.9 per­cent, $1,376, and Turkey 4.1 percent, $156. 
Americans spent less time in the hospital than people in most other countries. The United States had the second highest number of hospital employees per hospital bed (after Australia). Its physician to population ratio was slightly below average, but the United States had a far higher per­centage of specialists. 
A separate report in the same journal said the United States still holds a wide edge in medi­cal technology over Canada and Japan, with far more magnetic resonance imaging machines and open-heart surgery units per million residents. 




How to 
interview withthe Fa e500 withouteven 

• out 
OK, graduate-to-be. You can get up early or you can get Career/NET" It's simple: You give us your resume in a personal profile on the disk we 
provide. And we guarantee to deliver it to 10,000 employers (including the Fortune 500) in exactly the form they're looking for. Your Career/NET enrollment kit-a preprogrammed disk and a booklet of step-by-step instructions-is $99.95~ To be in the next nationwide distribution to employers, order today. Calll-800-682-8539. 

'Plus $4.95 for shipping and handling. 

kills 3, stuns France 

AP/Ca~ Fox 

tionary Propaganda." The words "Death to the cops" were written on several docu­ments. 
Interior Minister Charles Pasqua described the suspects as "desperate young people, trapped in a fantasy of anar­chist theories aimed at destroy­ing society." 
Right-wing political leaders, including Jean-Marie Le Pen of the National Front, said the best response to the killings would be to reinstate the death penalty, abolished in France in 1981. 
Police unions demanded the government provide more funds and personnel for law enforcement. And about 500 cab drivers assembled their vehicles at the Place de la Nation in honor of their slain colleague, Amadon Diallo, 49, an immigrant from Guinea. 
The rampage began at 9:25 
p.m. Tuesday when a masked couple scaled a fence at a car pound, sprayed tear gas at two policemen on duty, and made off with their pistols. 
For their getaway, the couple commandeered Diallo's taxi, taking the driver and a passen­ger hostage. 
About 10 minutes into the journey, Diallo deliberately steered his taxi into a police car with three officers inside. 
Two of the officers got out of their car, and both were fatally wounded as the couple opened fire, police said. Diallo was executed by the young woman at point black range, witnesses said. 
"The police got out of their car within seconds," another witness told French radio. "You could hear gunfire every­where.... Police were telling people, 'Get down, get down."' 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
In one of the bloodiest episodes in recent Paris his­tory, a young couple tear­gassed two policemen, stole their guns and set off a wild car-chase, killing three officers and a taxi driver before being captured. 
The slayings late Tuesday stunned a nation where only two other police officers had been killed in action all year, and prompted calls for restora­tion of the death penalty. 
Authorities could recall no other case in which so many Paris police officers had been killed. Three officers and two civilian passers-by were also injured. 
The male suspect, Audry Maupin, 21, died of a chest wound Wednesday night, 24 hours after the chase. A sec­ond-year law student, he had been too badly hurt to undergo questioning. 
The woman, 19 or 20, re­fused to talk to investigators. She was identified as Florence Ray, from the working-class Paris suburb of Argenteuil, and had been living as a squatter in an abandoned building with Maupin. 
Investigators searching the young woman's family home found documents with anar­chist slogans and the name of a previously unknown group, "The Organization of Revolu-



COLORADO 

page6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 6, 1994 


48 die in religious suicide pact 
By CHRISTIAN HUMBERT Associared Press 
CHEIRY 

The bodies of 48 members of a religious sect were discovered today in a concealed under­ground chapel and other build­ings after apparently commit­ting mass suicide. Some victims wore ceremonial robes, their hands clasped in prayer and plastic bags tied over their heads.. 
Police found the bodies in the burning ruins of a farm and three ski chalets in southern Switzerland. 
The victims apparently killed themselves before the fires were set shortly after midnight, they said. 
Authorities said most of the victims appeared to be Swiss, French, and Canadian and were investigating possible links with a religious sect in Canada. 
Twenty-three adult bodies were found at a farm in the canton of Fribourg, northeast of Geneva, police said. One man was in the farmhouse with a bullet wound to the head, and 21 others were in an under­ground chapel lined with mir­
~ice d~~i pEK)ptedead in IWO Swiss lawn$; The ..••• viylims al9 beHaved to bcJ.. · members of the cross arid esect. lies to other ·...I sOQielies are beingR lgated: · · ·  
O~r of tllfJ SOlar TempleThis group, led by Luc Jouret, !l(lvocates stockpiling weapon$to prepare for th&end of the world. Jouret own$da builqingjn.Quebec that was destroyed ..  ITALY  
by fire hours before the mass suicide; he had alsO rented one  50 miles  
of the SWiss chalets where ~c, bOdies were found Wednesday,  ·•·i . . .  E2S · 50 ~f; ...  " .  
Rosicrucians  :,;tJ  ,<]h·  ... .  .  .·  ...  ·.·  . .  .·.  ..  •V  

The..·· ......embtai:ed ...··. .
....... a·n·d· R!)Se .... ·.·ilos.op.tl.yo···t·this c.enturles.·old g~.o.u·p·····
·.·CT·oss ...··.•.some····.ph .•....
Rosicruciamrbelleve In l!)(e; and InclUde arose (ll1d across among itS symbols:·They deny any kn~l the Cross and Rose, · · 
Other cult-related mass 
rors, where they had appar­ently suffocated themselves with plastic bags. Another body was found in a separate build­ing. 
Some of the victims in the chapel, which was reached by a door hidden behind paneling in a barn, were wearing red, white and black ceremonial robes, said Fribourg police spokesman Beat Carlen. Two women were wearing gold robes. One couple was in an embrace. 
Carlen said some sort of altar was found in the chapel, but he did not have details. 
Serbs expel dozens of Muslims into Sarajevo 
By MAUD SEELMAN Associared Press 
SARAJEVO 
Bosnian Serbs on Wednesday pushed dozens of Muslims out of Serb territory into Sarajevo and denied the capital badly needed food sup­plies. 
The refugees, most of them women, children and the el­derly, were expelled from the area around Rogatica, about 30 miles east of Sarajevo. 
The expulsions temporarily disrupted an exchange of war prisoners. Bosnia's Muslim-led government initially said it was halting the swap. Later, groups of POWs, including civilians, were assembled for the exchange. 
About 120 Muslims crossed the Brotherhood and Unity Bridge from the Serb to the government side of Sarajevo. Most appeared to have been rounded up during the night and were not on agreed-to lists of prisoners. 
"This is not a prisoner's ex­change. This is pure expul­sion," said Amor Masic, head of the government exchange commission. 

The Bosnian Serbs are try­ing to expel all non-Serbs from the 70 percent of Bosnia they control. 
Thousands of Muslims have been expelled from Serb-held areas in northern and central Bosnia in recent weeks. 
The Serbs also continued to break their own promises to allow free passage for U.N. aid convoys. 
Kris Janowski, a U.N. aid spokesman, said Serbs refused clearance for a 100-ton food convoy bound for Sarajevo. 
Sarajevo airport remained closed because of veiled Serb threats to shoot at planes following a NATO air strike on a Serb tank Sept. 22 in retalia­tion for Serb assaults on French peacekeepers. 
The capital relies on the air­lift for about 80 percent of its food and other needs. The city bakery has enough flour only until week's end, and food stocks can last only a few days longer, Janowski said. 
AP/Wm. J. Castello, Eileen Glanton 

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• •••CONSIDERATIONS  
UNCERTAINTY Maybe one of the most important aspects of education is the dispelling of the ways that we oversimplify ourselves and others. Hopefully, in this place of Are you a senior who is not as certain about what you want to do as you once education, we die to old ways ofseeing ourselves that are narrow and exact in were? Perhaps you feel that the only thing you are certain of anymore is that order to continually rise to new ways of seeing ourselves and others that allow you are nor certain. us the freedom to change and appreciate the ability of others to change. Perhaps this dying and rising calls us to be a little more comfortable with not Are you a freshman who, at the beginning of this year, planned on majoring being sure all of the rime and not knowing everything exactly. in one area, bur is not so sure anymore? Perhaps you are only sure of one thing, that you are not going to major in what you thought you would. Maybe our uncertainty is a step toward the truth. A friend of mine, who is a senior at Notre Dame, told me that when she was What we do with our lives is important. It can have a great impact on others. a freshman she felt certain that she wanted to be an attorney. She studied like However, maybe the question which should precede "What do I want do?" is crazy. She picked out law schools. Bur, her certainty about this has gradually "How do I want to be?" unraveled. She is nor sure that she wants to be an attorney. When I asked her about what she is thinking about doing after she graduates in May, she told Maybe the most important thing is not always what we do with our lives, but me, "I don't know." She feels a little stressed because she feels like she owes it how we do it. to others, especially to her parents, to be certain, and to certainly be a success. Bob Dowd, C. S. C. There is only one phrase which I have spoken more often than "I'm nor sure," and that is "I don't know." When I was younger, I thought that as I would grow older and wiser I would TWENTY-EIGHT SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME need to use these phrases less often. However, as I have grown older, formally educated, and experienced, I have said ''I'm not sure" and "I don't know" Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica more often, not less. Sat. Oct. 8 5:00p.m. Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. Although the story ofJesus tells us that what we do in this life is important, it Sun. Oct. 9 10:00 a.m. Rev. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C also tells us that how we do what we do is often ofgreater importance. Jesus 11:45 a.m. Rev. John Pearson, C.S.C told people who seemed sure ofwhat God wanted them to do and sure of an exact way ro be saved that they better think again. Jesus welcomed all people, especially those who were rather certain that they were not acceptable. Jesus welcomed people who were most brutally excluded, with love. I imagine it was nor just what Jesus did that revealed him as God, bur how he did it. We are well into the first semester. At times it may seem like the pressure is on. There is that popular question, "What are you going to do?" Anxiety seems to go hand-in-hand with uncertainty. Right to Life Mass Tuesday, October 11, 5:15 p.m.Perhaps seniors in their final year are realizing that when it comes to Basilica of the Sacred Heartdiscerning a career, absolute certainty is at least unlikely and probably impossible. Presider: Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Life and Campus Ministry  

------~---­
------·--­

-~~--~---·-~----~ ~-------­
------~--------~----------~~------------­


VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 6, 1994 page? 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizaberh Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Sainr Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 
Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Informalion 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 


Finding good in the land of white people and lousy coffee 
The line I have given my friends back East is largely as follows: South Bend is a bleak place. It is cold in the winter and hot in the summer. The only movies you can see are Milk Money or Timecop. The food stinks; there are way too many custom vans on the road. And Notre Dame is even worse, with its stale burnt burgers. endless white people, and weak coffee. I go on and on. 
Well, I'm sick of it. I'm flying high these days, and the time is nigh for a change of attitude. There are at least five or six good things about living at Notre Dame, and I wish here and now to list them. (This does not include my own portable joys, my new Darin at the Copa CD or my dehydrated hash brown 

Josh 

The Observer. Attend to him when you cooked for a tenderizing eternity in that The chance of seeing a new and lurid

Ozersky 
get the chance; a mind like that doesn't cloying sauce. Holy cow, what a place. way of dispatching the other player (and come along every day. More Griffm,less You want to drop into a coma when you the absolute geniality which accom­Rice! come out, blinking like a surprised larva panies these sadisms in the real world .2: Archie's Barbeque. Now, I know in the sudden light, but while you're -a pat on the back, a chuckle from the 
cakes. These are public pleasures, 
what you're saying-"What the hell does there it is earthly paradise. fried/beheaded/disemboweled loser}available to everybody, rather than just this Jew know about barbeque?" Well 3: Mortal Kombat. I never get past gives me a new spark with which to face a lucky few.) 
let me tell you something, my friend. I the game room's glass window in the my day.
1: Letters to a Lonely God. Does any­knew more about barbeque as an obese basement of LaFortune without stopping 4: The Superstore. The giant shop­one read this column? Father Griffin tot than most New Yorkers do in a life­to watch some lad hurl his yellow man's ping edifice on Grape Road with thehas been writing it for years, and I sus­time, and Archie's is the real thing. It's harpoon into his opponent's chest, or unpronounceable name, can you beat it? 
pect that many students whisk past it, not genuine southern barbeque-like carving him up with scissor hands as Where else can you grab appliancesexpecting either Rice-style pontification most Midwest establishments, the sauce bright red blood drips from the wound. with hands still cold from feeling roast or more mindless "inspirational" advice. 
is too sweet and thick for my taste. And They say this country is losing its fast­beefs, or discard an unwanted container Little do they know! Father Griffin is a the dark, empty, cathode-ray-lit space of ball, but I have yet to see it in our video of chocolate milk on a tractor? Thesemad genius, his column an irreplaceable Archie's, with its creepy wallpaper and games. The variety of "fatalities" in disjunctions and inconsistencies amazevortex of quotations and non-sequiturs, proverb-strewn placemats, is something Mortal Kombat beggars the imagination. and delight me.
pious insights and odd, off-center self­of a drag. But those ribs! Order them I love it when the Bruce Lee guy goes 5: My TA salary, my column, my fmedeprecation. I usually take a smug with the sauce on the side, and they inside his dazed enemy's head and home, the upstairs bar at Truman's,pride in knowing from the first para­arrive at your table firm and sweet, with blows him up in a shower of bones; or Father Kirby's lectures, The Killer, andgraph what most columnists will say a reddish-brown crust redolent of when, having knocked him silly with fly­the Eighth floor of the Hesburgh library next; I never have a clue what the next smoke. The fries are exquisite, crisp ing kicks, "Scorpion" pulls off his ninja (literature and film}. Hey! You know,segue is going to be in the Letters. He and greasy to a point of translucence. mask to reveal a frightening skull, from perhaps things aren't so bad here after never ceases to surprise and amaze, 
White bread and cold Pepsi. Talk about which he breathes a flreball at his help­all.
does "Wild Bob." He is completely inim­
the Lord's bounty! Attend to the week­less foe, burning his once-mighty frame
itable and unpredictable, far and away end special, beef ribs, a heavy slab of into a charred, kneeling skeleton. There Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in the most original mind to be found in fatty, fibrous, unutterably rich meat are plenty fatalities I haven't seen, too. history . 

GARRY TRUDEAU

• DOONESBURY 
YOUKNO~

ANONOWIN 
lHENA!ItOF 
7H&Fi~~­IT'S 613mNG . .xJIN-RIX£R., .·• 7HING V&l<Y 7DO Wf3/RI? 70 
. f/rf!W!MtNT · r/VrtltiAI< Al!OUT aeAcav­OfMY5TIC4t. AI?IANNA-:KJHN. ~ATIV~. 7l?AVE?/U.. \ 
(IJ6CI(JJ5­
N&SS.~,
.. ~., 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''some are born mad. Some remain so." 
-Samuel Beckett 

pageS Thursday, October 6, 1994





VIEWPOINT 
• Oun TuRN 
The enigma of Catholicity changing priorities 
At the Abbey of Gethsemani, a Trappist monastery in Kentucky where I spent several weeks this summer, they have an interesting way of coming to decisions. The monks sit in the Chapter Room, all facing each other. When an issue is raised on which they need to hear from every monk, they invite the youngest members to speak first. This wisdom tries to avoid a "doing what we've always done" mentality. It's the monastic version of wisdom coming out of the mouths of babes. This ancient way of discernment says that while age and experience offer valuable insights, transformation often springs from the newest among us. 
I went running last week with a fresh-
Joe 

Ross 
man from Morrissey named Eric. As we began our run I told him of my invitation to write something about the Catholic Character at Notre Dame. During our five mile run to Saint Mary's, through the nature trail, down by the river, around the Church of Loretto and back to Morrissey, I think we pretty well solved the equation. At least Eric and I thought so. 
The Catholic Character at Notre Dame. Eric said it was perhaps the main rea­son he chose Notre Dame. He also said it had a lot to do with going to mass in his residence hall and living among so many people who took faith seriously and could talk about it. 
I said some people fear that the Catholic Character requires faculty members sending their course descrip­tions to the local bishop. Eric said that would be stupid. I agreed. He went on to say it had a lot to do with a place like the Center for Social Concerns. He remarked how one hears so much of a tradition of service here that one gets swept up by it, even if one hasn't done much of it before. I said I hoped that was true. 
As we got into the deep green of the 
nature trail, we got more serious. I said 
that part of the Catholic Character here 
holds the conviction that our graduates 
will ask new questions in their studies. 
Maybe business majors will ask: 
"What will this financial strategy do to 
the poor?" or "Is profit maximization 
always good?" or "What does it mean, in 
a society where homelessness is such a 
plague, to yearn for a big house, big car, 
big life?" . Maybe our undergraduate historians 
would ask questions like: "From whose 
perspective was this piece of history 
told?" "Do we value the historical ex­
perience of poor people?" "Do we know 
how they experience America?" 
As we dropped down by the river I 
wondered if maybe Notre Dame arts and 
letters students might ask questions like: 
"How does this psychological theory 
exalt the human person as a creation of 
God?" or "How does this poem reveal 
authentic human love?" 
Maybe our Notre Dame engineers 
would emerge with questions like: "Can 
I work on this project that will build nu­
clear weapons delivery systems?" "Can 
I focus this targeting system that may 
shoot these weapons at cities?" "How 
does my knowledge of Jesus of Nazareth 
affect the kind of engineering I will do?" 
Maybe our R.O.T.C. students will ask 
questions like: "How can we make cer­
tain that civilians are not struck by this 
or that military enterprise?" or "How 
can we, as officers, make certain our 
tactics don't make reconciliation impos­
sible?" 

At this point Eric was really ponder­
ing. He said he had never thought of 
those questions. He went on to remark 
that for some people, as long as there 
are single sex dorms, parietals and no 
condom machines, we would be a 
Catholic university. I agreed that there 
surely are some folks who see those 
realities as the benchmarks. I went on 
to say how sad it is, that for some, the 
issues of sexual morality become litmus 
tests for our Catholicity, since Jesus said 
a great deal more about wealth and for­
giveness and peace than he did about 
sex. 

As we neared the Holy Cross Sisters' 
cemetery, Eric recalled a conversation 
he had the night before with his room­
mates and their Big Sisters from Lyons 
Hall. It sounded to me like that classic 
sacramental moment that happens so 
often in Morrissey and all our residence halls: The Late Night Deep Conversation. Eric remembered them talking about the ways men and women relate here. They spoke about the difference between trying to grow through a dating relationship with just one person and random "hook-ups." They questioned why connecting with someone emotion­ally often leads to connecting with them physically. 
Eric remarked that he wasn't sure if this kind of conversation would happen elsewhere. He said he was with people who held varied views, but were all open to sharing their life experiences. He expressed thankfulness at having many opportunities here for intelligent and moral conversation. 
As we rounded the 
life in that hall will not be interesting enough. This returned us to our experi­ence of hall masses. Eric said his hope was that people would not leave mass Sunday night saying "that was nice." But rather, that Sunday night mass might invite them into living a different kind of Monday. I agreed. 
At this point we crossed Highway 31 and rounded the edge of Saint Mary's Lake. I wondered if the Catholic Character at Notre Dame might mostly be something we see away from Notre Dame, since even the Church does not exist for herself. Maybe the Catholic Character of this place will be evident where Notre Dame people live and serve. 
Maybe we'll know 

Church of Loretto, Eric Notre Dame is a wondered if the Catholic Catholic university
' I wondered if the 

Character at Notre when we see gradu­Dame was rooted in the Catholic Character at ates turning down Holy Cross priests, Notre Dame might most­money and status to 
brothers and sisters. work in humbler situ­
ly be something we see
Was his experience here ations. Maybe we'll Catholic, simply because away from Notre Dame, know Notre Dame is a he could talk with a Catholic university
since even the Church 

priest nearly any time when we learn about he wanted? does not exist for herself. engineers shifting I said that the many their companies
Maybe the Catholic 

Holy Cross men and toward human needs women who have served Character of this place projects and people at Notre Dame certainly ask: "Where did
will be evident where 

helped form the many these engineers come students they have Notre Dame people live from?" Maybe we'll known, but that Notre and serve." know it when we Dame's Catholicity is not walk past our hall our private property at chapel at night and all. see a student caught up in prayer. 
I told him my sense is that everyone Maybe we'll know it when our artists contributes to the atmosphere here. We show us the beauty of God, which they either help Notre Dame to be fearful or so often do. Maybe we'll know our we help it to be creative. We can help Catholicity when our thinkers help us to one another see the person of Jesus see the world more from the position of affecting our studies and our common the poor, than from the position of the life, or we can help one another avoid powerful. that reality. We help these possibilities We finished our run on the small road to happen to Notre Dame because we between the Log Chapel and Morrissey. help these possibilities to happen within Over the years, I wonder, how many people at Notre Dame. Notre Dame people have looked on that 
Eric wondered if we weren't overly small rugged chapel? Just local wood, confident in our Catholicity, simply crowned with a simple cross. How has because we have the Grotto, Sacred that cross changed them? That's how Heart. hall chapels and crosses in the Catholic we are. classrooms. He stated pretty firmly, that Joe Ross. C.S.C., is the rector of his experience so far showed him the Morrissey Hall and teaches Freshman spirit of Jesus present in people and Seminar. Our Tum is a weekly, rotating conversations. I remarked that build­column in which members ofthe commu­ings and policies do form people. If you nity reflect on Catholic Character at build a residence hall without a chapel, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 

Dear Editor: 

In the upcoming November elections, the American people will basically yield a referen­dum upon the Clinton adminis­tration, Democrats, and the policies they have initiated. It has all but been conceded that the Democrats will lose numer­ous seats in the House and pos­sibly lose their majority in the Senate. The main reason: the Clinton Administration, coupled with Democratic majorities in both the House and Senate have not gotten the job done! 
With the exception of the Reagan Administration-spon­sored NAFTA , and an Anti­Crime Bill (which was intro­duced as a sow, and passed as a strip of bacon), Bill Clinton and the Democratic Party have not spent their time bettering the future for Americans. Instead, they've spent a good deal of their time redistributing blame, denouncing, or defend­ing themselves against the likes of: Zoe Baird and alien labor, Lani Guinier, HUD Secretary Henry Cisneros and an adultery scandal, Whitewater Development, Vince Foster's "suicide," Paula Jones, Hillary's commodity market mismanage­ment, campaign moneys washed through the Arkansas S&L, firing of Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers, Jocelyn Elders and legalizing drugs, Dan Rostenkowski and the House Bank, and reneging on Health Care. 
Whether these allegations are unfounded or true, each minute spent defending them took ten proposing their defense or de­nunciation methods. The point is that the Democrats and their administration assumed the public trust to spend their time resolving conflict, producing answers, and delivering solu­tions to America's problems. The President of the United States is our leader, whether we like him or not, yet he has led us nowhere. If Bill Clinton and the rest of the Democrats are going to spend "our" time and "our" money continually defending their character and their direct involvement in the character of others within the administration and within the party-which is exactly how these last two years have been consumed-then I believe that we should use "our" ballots to send them home next month. If they can't use our time wisely, then they shouldn't be using it at all! 

JAY TOWN 
President College Republicans 




ACC€NT 
page 9 Thursday, October 6, 1994 

By PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
During this Multicultural Week, members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's commu­nities have been celebrating ethnic diversity with activities such as cultural lectures, dis­cussion panels, international fashion shows, and exhibitions. 
Judging from the turnouts at this week's festivities, many students have expressed their interest in learning about other cultures and their own culture. Students are more aware, espe­cially during this Multicultural Week, of the importance of cross-culture communication. 
There are many students who work not only during Multicultural Week, but all year long to promote cultural aware­ness. These students are mem­bers of language clubs and other groups on campus which celebrate ethnic diversity. 
One such organization is Fuerza y Union Entre las Rozas (FUERZA). which means "strength and unity among the race." 
"FUERZA is an organization for anyone interested in Hispanic culture," said Saint Mary's FUERZA co-president Bernadette Pampuch. Currently comprised of thirty members, FUERZA attempts to increase cultural awareness and unity, according to Pampuch. 

The organization distributes a newsletter monthly and pro­vides its members with enter­tainment and service-oriented opportunities, Pampuch said. 
"We can learn a lot from peo­ple of other cultures. We live in a changing world where cultur­al diversity can no longer be ignored," Pampuch said. 
The Italian Clubs of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's also promote ethnic awareness on campus. The Italian Clubs will co-sponsor the "International Disco" this Saturday evening, at the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Presidents Heather Matula, from Saint Mary's, and Louis Vricella, from Notre Dame, are working to "open our campuses up to new ideas," according to Matula. 
Everyone is invited to enjoy the cultural dance music from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. for only one dollar, she said. 
Last year, the "International Disco" drew nearly 300 people. Matula and Vricella are hopeful that this year's dance will draw even more. 
Matula said that the Italian Club also offers cooking classes and publishes an annual cook book to promote multicultural awareness on campus. 
The Saint Mary's Spanish Club also works throughout the year for the spread of ethnic ideals. Saint Mary's Spanish Club co-president Veronica Torres said that club members meet two times per month for lunch, during which they prac­tice speaking Spanish with other students and faculty members. 
"The Spanish Club also meets to see Spanish films when they come to town," Torres said. 
According to Torres, cross­culture communication is a necessity. "With good commu­nication, we can break through the barriers and stereotypes that society imposes," Torres said. 
"Many people have precon­ceived notions of other cultures. If we learn to communicate effectively and honestly, we come to the reality about those cultures. And we break through the stereotypes," Torres added. 
"Intercultural communica­tion implies that the world is definitely diverse. But we can learn from other cultures and we can benefit ft:om what we learn," added Dr. John Pauley, assistant professor of Communication, Dance & Theatre at Saint Mary's. 
"Our cultural differences are 
~ 
not a bad thing. And there is one underlying similarity. It is simply that we are all human beings created in the image of God. This commonality under­lies our differences. And when a commonality underlies differ­ences, then there is hope," Pauley said. 
If you were to open the direc­tory to the listings of the ethnic organizations of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Communities, you would find that they number over thirty. 
There are numerous opportu­nities for students who want to become involved in increasing cultural awareness. And these opportunities exist not only during Multicultural Week, but all year long. 
-
• MUSIC REVIEW 
A touch of class from three eclectic CD's 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
If a CD comes out and nobody knows about it, does it make a sound? The answer is usually no. However, I have chosen to rescue three very interesting albums that have probably not gotten too much press in other publications. 
Although each of them is filled with some fantastic sounds, they come from three different schools of musical thought. 
The Planet Janet by Janet Speaks French: Long live the rock concept album! 

-
Begun in the 1960's in an attempt to gain respect as a true artistic medium, the concept has been developed over the The Planet Janet In Love United State of Ambience II 
7 records, 1994 High Street Records, 1994 Moonshine Music; 1994
years by such great players as The Who, Pink Floyd, and Santanna. However, I 
**""~ *** 
*** 
doubt that any of them considered doing what was once acid house. 
much like old Lou Reed. is featured on "Jolly Street." The bass one for their debut. 
This band is definitely not short on climbs and falls like a vertical type­"Sargasso Sea" by Salt Tank contains Enter the four insane New York City ideas, but they do slip when it comes to writer. Jeff Buckley's guest vocals on fascinating elements of psychedelia as men that make up Janet Speaks French. 
portraying themselves through their the track are stupendous as the lyrics sounds swirl all around the speakers.
Their CD cover and liner notes tells the reflect quick, monosyllabic images. Samples of birds chirping are tossed in
music. Once they find a less shakystory of how the universe was to be focus, however, they will be an excellent Deborah Harry is the guest vocalist on and complete a mood of utter isolation. 
taken over by complete synchroniza­band. "Dog in Sand." Although the scene Later in the song, throbbing bass and 
tion...until they stepped in and saved the In Love by Jazz Passengers: seems to be of a seedy nightclub filmed sporadic cymbal arrangements pulsateday with rock music. 
While listening to the first few min­in black and white, Harry fits in this new through the wall of key boards. 
The CD is actually worth buying just utes of In Love, you will have to remind turf with ease; her vocals are flawless. On the track "Deus" by one of the for the exciting story; the songs are an yourself that no, this is not the sound­A somber trombone accompanies her on most widely-renowned groups that enhancement to the tale. 
track for the next Twin Peaks movie. every note, while the bass is not far make ambient music, Electric If only writing music were as simple About two or three minutes after that, behind. The mood is set gradually, per­Skychurch. Their hypnotic rhythm hits 
as telling a story. The members of Janet right away; a soft whine greets you as
you will fight to keep yourself from cussion is utilized only sparingly. Speaks French have a fabulous imagina­thinking that this music will be used in If there was ever an album of fright­the song moves into its first seconds. 
tion and they are all talented musicians, Short Cuts, Part II. ening jazz, this is it. But being scared The synthesizer's lonely, time-con­
but the songs do not always accurately never felt so good. suming journey transmits you back to
With a cover containing a spilled cup
go along with the messages that the United State of Ambience II by the Mojave Desert where the group
of drinking glass, it is easy to expect the fable conveys. unexpected. Jazz Passengers apply Various Artists: records their blurry sounds. 
A deserted feel surrounds the song, The opening notes of "Dreamscape" 
their "no rules" approach much like With 73 minutes of music in only ten"River to my Soul." Palpable, reverber­Naked City, a different eclectic jazz act songs, Moonshine Music is not fooling seem to invite you to go spelunking in a ating bass and vocal distortion complete that stretch the boundaries. Through In around when they tell you they want to vast cave. As you go deeper into the 
the mix, sounding a lot like. circa Green. Love, Jazz Passengers almost bring set a mood on the back of the disc. song you also go deeper into the cave,Some cheesy, thrasher Red Hot Chili about a physical spectrum for their In this second part of the Ambience coated by layer after layer of raw sound. 
Peppers funk sets the tone on the song, abstract ideals. series, the leaders of the movement Collapsing and meandering sections of "Pushed." With vocals stylized by 
"Yet I'm still with you/Don't know from America and England have been dark keyboard arrangements rumble Michael Penn, Sean 0' Sullivan croons 
what it is/That I can't resist/This imita­united in what was dubbed "The Mid­throughout.
"And then you kissed me/And right then tion of a kiss," sings Jimmy Scott in a Atlantic Sessions." 
and there I started feeling dumb/1 guess Regardless of what any preachers of
brutal falsetto on the song "Imitation of Promising "no definitions," this set it's true I fell for you/But it ain't like I 
a Kiss." The amazing arrangement of continues the ever-expanding genre that "real instruments" think, ambience is jumpedll was pushed." the vibes creates a somewhat obsessive is ambience. Blasted by many critics wonderful music. When it is good, it can 
A lengthy bit of guitar distorion leads 
tone. The soft, cymbal-ridden drum who don't think music is music without communicate the thoughts of the artist into "World on a Wire." The drums are arrangement runs the mood. a guitar, bass, and drums, ambience has to an almost startling accuracy; "no defi­· ''·'Soft, yet consistently tasteful, and 0' nitions" is a perfect way to define this
A more traditional jazz arrangement nevertheless stretched even further
Sullivan adQp.ts a spoken-word style music. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 6, 1994 
I" 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL 

Miami looking for big play against FSU 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 

CORAL GABLES, Fla. The big play is back in the Miami Hurricanes' play book, 
and  that  will  help  their  
chances  Saturday  night  
against Florida State.  

The 13th-ranked Hurricanes (3-1) have scored five touc.hdowns covering more than 50 yards already this season, matching their total for all of last year. 
"Their big-pl~y capability scares you as much as any­thing," said Bobby Bowden, coach of the third-ranked Seminoles (4-0). 
Break-away speed and a sophisticated passing attack traditionally make Miami one of the nation's most explosive teams. But the long-ra~ge threat was lacking last sea­son, which accounted in part for Miami's disappointing 9-3 record. 
This year, thanks to a group of fleet young targets for quarterback Frank Costa, the Hurricanes have regained their ability to strike sudden­ly. 
"Their receivers are the strength of their team," Florida State linebacker Derrick Brooks said. "They've come back to mak­ing the big play. Last year that was missing." 
Games between Miami and Florida State often swing on one bolt of offense. Last year, when the Seminoles won 28­10, they scored on Sean Jackson's 69-yard touchdown run and Charlie Ward's 72­yard pass to Matt Frier. 
That was only Florida State's second victory in the past nine games of the series. When the Hurricanes won by such scores as 26-25 and 17­16, their offense produced the big plays. 
"That's the way it's been down through the years against us," Bowden said. "It seems like with all those one­point losses, you can go back and find one or two big plays that beat you. Maybe you're outplaying them, and all of a sudden they get a 60-yard strike when we have them shut down." 
• COI.. lEGE BASKETBAll Coaches call for stricter ·entry standards for frosh 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
The National Association of Basketball Coaches closed its two-day summit Wednesday by calling for a delay in imple­menting stricter entry standards and the eventual end of eligibility for all freshmen. 
The Board of Directors of the NABC released a written position stating its opposition to Proposition 16, which is sched­uled to go into effect for the fall of 1995 and will include a scale that would toughen the stan­dards for a freshman athletes 
"Toda we are faced with find­ing a cure for initial eligibility so that we as coaches and adminis­trators can continue to provide opportunities for the many young people that want to attend col­lege, play athletics, graduate and become productive citizens in our society," said George Washington's Mike Jarvis. 
The current standards for a freshman to be eligible are still what is referred to as Prop 48: a 

2.0 grade point average in 11 high school core courses and at least a 700 on the standardized SAT. Prop 16, which was passed in 1992, increases the number of core courses to 13 and would call for a student-athlete to have at least a 900 on the SAT with a 2.0 average or a 700 with a 2.5. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 

II!IIATTENTION SOPHO­MORESIIIII 
The Class of '97 Service Project will be kicking off the year with a house painting project on Sunday, 10/9. It will be the first of many projects with the Northeast Neighborhood. Help us get off to a great start and help us help others. Talk to your Sophomore Class Council Dorm Rep, or call Brian at x1058. Thanks -trust us... -·····vou WILL HAVE FUN!**••••• 
Come see 
TROOP NOTRE DAME 
a hip-hop dance club, 
performing TODAY 
at Rek:thouse Mall 
at 4:30pm and 5:15pm 
TROOP NOTRE DAME 
DANCE CLASSES 
resume TONIGHT 
8pmand9pm 
219 Rockne 
Don't forget your $2 club dues! 
New members are welcome! 
?'s call Usa 273-6033 or Emilex3589 
ANYBODY INTERSTED IN WISH­ING DAVID GORDON(B.C. KICK­ER GOOD LUCK, GIVE HIM A CALL AT 617-558-8948. ASK FOR GORDO, AND TELL HIM WHAT YOU THINK. 
Attention Queer Folks there will be 
a general meeting tonight at 7:30 
for info 287-6665 
USED BOOKS & CLIFPS NOTES 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 
NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/1 0-6 
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store 
Downtown book wholesaler seeks warehouse workers Flexible hours & wkend work available 232-8500 X22 ask for Bryan 
Disco -· Disco Disco Italian Club Dance. Open to all!!!!!! Saturday 9:00-1:30, only $1 LaFortune Ballroom 
jtosT&FOUNDI 
FOUND a pen on Sept. 23. Call 
LiSa 289·8227 
LOST STUDENT 1.0. NEAR GATE 15 ON SAT. 10/1. REWARD. CALL 287-4546. THANK YOU. 
LOST STUDENT I.D. NEAR GATE 15 ON SAT. 10/1. REWARD. CALL 287-4546. THANK YOU. 



WANTED 
Campus Band needs Lead 
Guitarist. Guaranteed gigs. Call 
Pick 277-2375***SPRING BREAK 
95**­America's #1 Spring Break Company! Cancun, Bahamas, Daytona & Panama! 11 0% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and TRAVEL FREEl Earn highest commissions! (800)32­TRAVEL 

Deliver Birthday Cakes :30 min/day flexible hours, must have own car call 272-1506 leave message 
$$$$ NEED BYU GASI WILL PAY BIG$ CALL 1-8317 $$$ 
PIZZA MAKER -PART TIME ­
EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD MONEY. 
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW YORK 257-1100. 
VOLUNTEERS ARE NEEDED AT THE EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVEL­OPMENT CENTER AT NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S. SER­VICES SUCH AS READING, CRAFTS & PLAYING WITH CHIL­DREN. 75 MINS. ONCE A WEEK. PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 284­4693. 

FOR RENT 

THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­773-2034 
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & BREAKFAST -Historic Home, quiet setting, 4 guest rooms, shared baths. 20 minutes to campus. 
616-695-6321. 
BEAUTIFUL ROOMS W/PRIVATE 
BATHS FOR RENT FOR FOOT­
BALL WKNDS. 3 MI. FROM CAM­
PUS. (219) 277-8340. 
BEST HOUSE OFF CAMPUS 
HUGE 4BR 1/1-2 BATH, WASHER 
DRYER. CLEAN, CLEAN! DON'T 
WAIT ANOTHER DAY-51GN UP 
NOW FOR '95. 4/5 STUDENTS. 
259-7801. 
Fully furnished clean 2 bedroom 
5 rooms total, 1 1/2 block south of 
St. Joe Med Center 
safe quiet neighborhood 
$450 plus deposit Utilities, cable, 
air and trash included 
Private entrance 
call 233-8327 or see at 224 North 
St. PeterS!. 
Ideal for grad student or prof. 
References required 

FOR SALE 

Two tickets to see "The 
Whos:Tommy", October 8 in 
Chicago. 
If interested call Ana@4-1532. 
'71 M.G. MIDGETT RED CON­VERTIBLE. SHARP, RUNS GOOD. $1,700. CALL 277-3239. 
85 SAAB 900 Turbo SPG 
Black w/Tan int., sunroof, 72K mi., 
very clean, new stereo, $4500 
631-0141,277-5712 Eve. 
CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­Minutes from NO-end unit on pond­18177F Stoneridge-2BR+Lolt, Fireplace, All Gar w/Opener­$58,000-Cail232-5190. 
Moving -Must Sell one double toulon bed/couch one small kitchen table with 2 
chairs excellent condition best offer -call heather 233-3358 

TICKETS 

WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. CALL 800-922-2327 JANET. 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 
STUDENT AND GAS NEEDED 
FOR BYU AND GAS FOR AF. 

PLEASE! CALL JEANNE AT X2478. 
$$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs. 
Please call Lisa at 277-0740. Will pay top dollars.$$$ 
Need BYU student TIX (or GA's) Will pay good money Call Dennis at (914) 294-6546 
NEED 2 GA's for NAVY & 
NEED 4 GA's for BYU 
CALL Chris x-1353 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL 
HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 
I NEED BYU GA'S 
CALL JEFF @ 277-8250 
I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u 
can help, call Ron at x1736 
Desperate for BYU GA 
Ted@4-34B5 
I need one Air Force GA or student ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please call X3822. Thanks! 
HELP, I NEED TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES! (GA'S & STUDENT) esp. 
* 
2 GA'S FOR STANFORD 

* 
1 STUDENT TIC FOR BYU 

* 
MANY GA'S &/or STUDENT FOR AIR FORCE 


• 4 GA'S TOGETHER FOR ANY GAME 
PLEASE HELP! THANK YOU! CALL KATIE ADAMS @2845 
NEED 4 Air Force G.A.'s. Will TRADE 4 FLA. ST. G.A.'s or other home game G.A.'s. Joe x1748. 
HELP! I need 4 Navy tickets-stud. 
and GA. Call Brian at x.2034. 
Needed: one BYU ticket 
Please call634-1439 
I NEED 2 BYU GAs CALL McKENNA 271-2956 
Desparately need 4 BYU GA's 
Call Megan at 4072 
I NEED 3 AF GAs-call Sam x4872 
NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED 
BOSTON COLLEGE GAs Call Marc at X3300 or X3309 
NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED 

PARENTS HATE YOU? SELL ME THEIR NAVY TIXII SERIOUS CASHII CALL JERRY AT 3024 
Need 4 BYU tickets. Student or GA. Please call Joe at 4 x 4485. 
I NEED 8 TICKETS TO BYU STUDENT OR GA'S CALL MEGHAN X4541 
I GIVE NEW MEANING TO THE WORD DESPERATE! Will trade 2Navy GA's for 2BYU or 2AirForce GA's OR will pay$1call Anne#4252 
••••••*NEED BYU TIX***** STUDS OR GA'S CALL CHAD AT 289-9050 
I NEED NAVY GA'S MARK X1640 
Need 3 BYU GA's & 3NAVYGA's call4-2010 
SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE TIXS CALL-BRENDAN AT 277-6315 
NEEDED, B.C. TIX. WILL GIVE KIDNEY, BLOOD (TYPE A+), OR FIRST BORN CHILD. CALL BRENT AT 277-9442 
######################## 3 TICKETS (GA OR STU.) FOR 
BYU GAME...CALL ASAP 
WILL PAY BIG MONEY!!! CALL X2125 .. LEAVE OFFER 
NEED 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY $$$$$$-call Brian@ X1739 
4 SALE: 2 Navy GAs-CALL with b/o 4-4824 
I NEED 1 NAVY G.A.I Call Sean 
@1432. 
Need 6 BYU GA's, Pairs OK, Pis 
Help, 273-6463, Maria 
Patty really needs 2 BC tix 
call her at 4072 
Sale: Studs. All Remaining Games Call Tom at 2042 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need 2 BCTIX 
Call Marc @ 233-4008 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 5 BYU GA'S -CALL Joe @ x2765 
NEED 2-4 BYU GA'S OR STUD. 
TIX. CALL TONY. X4532 
I NEED 8 (YES, 8) BYU GA's 
CALL AMY X2652 
Rooms for rent. BYU & Navy 
games. Call 255-9005 for more 
information. 
BLIND MAN DYING TO HEAR BYU GAME IN PERSON. WILL BUY STUD/GA BYU TIX OR TRADE FOR AF GAs. 216-721-8163 
NEED G.A TIX TO NO VS BYU. 
CALL JOE @ 287-4561 BEFORE 
11P.M. 
2 FSU GA's 
Best Offer 
Kevin x1955 WANTED 
Two GA Tickets to 
the BYU Game Call ASAP with your tickets! 4-2617 

WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR 2 BYU TIX. Call Val #4-2597 
Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call Sue at 277-8995 
Need three GAs for any home game. Call Matt at 289-2710 baaahh 
I need Navy GA's. Paul at X2681 
I NEED 2 BYU GA'sl Call Julie @277-4612 

NY Alum needs 1-4 tickets for BYU game. Call1-800-666-4949 ext. 220. Ask for Ann Hiens 
Needed:1 GA to air force and 1 GA to BYU or Navy-call ann x4544 
BC GAS FOR SALE GREG 277-7475 

NEED GA'S FOR BYU AND AIR FORCE, NICK X4073 
MY MOM NEEDS 2 AIR FORCE & 1 FSU GA -KAREN 4290 
NEED 4 FSU TIX-AICH UNCLE WILL PAY BIG$$$ CHRIS X3095 
NEED 1 BYU Tick 
StudorGA 
Please Call Darryl @4243 
Help!! I need Tix for BYUII Monica-X2995 

HELP$$$$! I need 2 GAs & 1 stud 
ticket for BYU -parents & sis 
coming. For lots of $$$$$$, call 
272-92031 

Need 2 BYU GA's .... Call Phil at 
x3520 

Need 2-3 Air Force GAs. Leslie 
273-9303 


PERSONAL 
Happy Birthday Heidi Moll! 
............................. 

Need ride to Iowa 4 fall break 
x-4333Jim 

SEINFEST '9411 1ST ANNUAL SUB COMEDY TAL­ENTSHOWI WATCH FOR SIGNUPS FOR AUDITIONS AT DINING HALLS 10/11-1311 -YOU COULD BE THE NEXT JERRY SEINFELDII 
BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC 

ANYBODY INTERSTED IN WISH­ING DAVID GORDON(B.C. KICK­ER GOOD LUCK, GIVE HIM A CALL AT 617-558-8948. ASK FOR GORDO, AND TELL HIM WHAT YOU THINK. 
BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC 
Rice Krispy Treats rock. 
LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL? There's lots of interest in this month's issue of Common Sense, including articles and uncensored ads. Pick up a copy now! (This ad brought to you by the GIL organization not allowed to print its name here). 
Ha Ha Buck and Allie B-I'm going to Boston-Have fun with the navy­Jenifa 
Quality Copies, Quickly!!! 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
SUPPORT GROUP FOR RAPE SURVIVORS Open to Notre Dame & St Mary's Students; HELD ON CAMPUS; FREE; CONFIDENTIAL Sponsored by Sex Offense Services 234-0061 ext. 1308 
GUYS WHO TOOK PHIL DON­AHUE'S PICTURE WITH RANDOM GIRLS IN FRONT OF MINI-VAN WHILE TAILGAITING. WE'LL PAY DEVELOPING: CALL HEATHER@ 271-7780 
I am the lizard queen and I can do the lizard king. 
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 
Good luck Lenny Leigh, Jesicca 
Raub 
and the rest of the 
PW PURPLE WEASELS!! I 
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 
Established campus band with 
guaranteed gigs needs lead gui­
tarist. Call Pick 277-2375 
Note to Jonathon Jensen -do you 
know where your "HOT AND 
BOTHERED" book is? 
Are those 
BLUE JEANS??? 
OPEN MOUTH 
INSERT FOOT 
M2-YOU'RE GOINGII 
REAL GOOD, REAL GOOD 
You can tart now -we're in Gary!! 
Ski gets good bed head 
HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY 
HEIDI MOIIII WE LOVE VA! 

Pooooooor Petey. I miss you, and Cary too. Just 'cause I have a boyfriend doesn't mean I can't hang out with my Best Buddy. How 'bout the 'backer? Oink Oink. 
MUSICMUSICMUSICMUSIC 
GEORGE AND THE FREEKS­
TONIGHT-SENIOR BAR-10:30 
MUSICMUSICMUSICMUSIC 
Everyone -give MIKE NORBUT a 
big belated birthday smooch 
Lewis 4W ROCKS! II 
Lewis Hall Football -Be afraid, be 
very afraid. 
Need 2-3 Air Force GA's Leslie 
273-9303 


Thursday, October 6, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL 
Kentucky receives threats aimed at Curry's wife 
Associted Press elusion of the investigation, the school said in a news release. LEXINGTON, Ky. Curry was unable to make his week­
A threatening phone call to the ly radio broadcast on Tuesday night, University of Kentucky football office the first time since coming to included a threat on the life of Kentucky in 1990. Carolyn Curry, wife of UK coach Bill Curry, the university announced Ralph Hacker, moderator of "Cat Wednesday. Calls," said at the start of the broad­
The university said the call was cast that Curry had "pressing person­received within the past few days and al business" that kept him from par­was immediately reported to the UK ticipating in the show. police. The FBI has since joined in the Kentucky, which does not play this investigation. weekend, is in the throes of a four­
University administrators and ath­game losing streak. The Wildcats are letics officials were not at liberty to 1-4 overall and 0-3 in the comment on the call pending the con-Southeastern Conference. 
Recycle
Friday October 7, 1994 

-12am Stenan Cen 
AND ENTERTAINMENT FROM AROUND THE 


The Observer 
0~ 
~· 

So come join the fun, stop by bef~re SYRS! Ki~ off the 



DANCERS! 
weekend in a unique way and bnng all your friends! 
~.5!/.-~. u,_,t.u. m..Jl-: 111-ztJ,.--4--_,._, 
There will be an organizational
.J.,-.~..,u,I,4"--.,L(.J-"l ~$1 
meeting for the Dance Collective



T/lSTE OF 
TONIGHT! 
5:45p.m. Regina Dance Studio, SMC 
MEN ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND.


NllTIONS 
EATIRE STOOl<
! -----:---:-;=-~~ ~;;;: 
page 11 

Mitchell 
continued from page 16 
in our first two games and turned the ball over too much," he added. Against Pittsburgh, "a lot of guys were talking how the flrst half felt like last year when we were moving the ball down the fleld, I think we've got the feeling back." 
But if Notre Dame can shut down Mitchell, Hartsell will be deprived of his biggest of­fensive weapon. 
"He's got a great knack of flnding the open area," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. "He reads coverages very, very well.... He's got excellent hands." 
Smart enough to know that another year at Boston College would enhance his NFL prospects. He thought ·about turning pro this season, espe­cially when coach Tom Coughlin left to coach Jacksonville's new NFL team and Foley went to the Jets. 
But he was told he needed to get stronger. He also got a chance to enjoy college football for one more fall and, perhaps, one more upset of Notre Dame. 
"I talked to some family members and friends and peo­ple whose opinions really mat­tered to me," Mitchell said. "There's nothing like playing college football. 
"There's nothing like playing 
on a Saturday afternoon." 
IT'S COIIIIH 
CHo~ !Sth 

I 
I I I I 
I I I 
I I I I I ! 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
. o I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
l I I I 
BUY YOUR FIRST PAIR AT OUR AU~EADY LOW REGULAR STICKER PRICE, GET A 2nd PAIR OF EQUAL OR LESSER VALUE FOR 1/2 PRICE. 
~--------------------------------------­
MISHAWAKA: INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA, 5924 GRAPE RD. 219-273-6097 


page 12 
IH 
continued from page 16 
scores last week. 
"We are psyched to play," Spencer said. "We need the win, and we're looking forward to a high caliber football game. 
The teams will clash at 7:00 pm on Cartier Field. 
Pasquerilla West vs. Lewis 
Pasquerrilla West is looking to put some points on the board against Lewis tonight. 
The Purple Weasles, champi­ons of the league last year, are coming off of two tied games. The defense has been strong, allowing only one touchdown in three games, but the offense hasn't been able to convert of lately. 
"We've been working on new plays all week, and we're excit­ed to see what we can do with them in our next game," co­Captain Katie Warzon said. 
I 
Lewis, boasting a sizeable
I 
team from the campus' largest 
I 
female dorm, hopes to continue
I 
their offensive attack and capi­
~ 
I talize on turnovers forced byI their improving defense. The I chickens are preparing for an intense game against a highly
I 
motivated PW team.
I 
I Pasquerilla West intends to I end their frustrating streak 
I 
with the skills of quarterback
i 
Carrie Wieneke and Lanny Le
I 
and Andy Odicino at run­
I 
1'--ningback. 
"I think we'll be able to win if we can bring our offense up to the high level of play that our defense has maintained," Warzon said. 
Admissio11 55 Gelleral, 2.5 Studmt/Se1zior Citizc11 
FINANCE CLUB EFFECTWE INTERVIEWING Guest Speaker: Prof. James O'Rourke 
Dr. O'Rourke is Director, Notre Dame Center for Business Communication and Associate Professor of Management at the University of Notre Dame. 
Place: 131 DeBartolo When: Thursday, October 6 Time: 7:30 ~8:30p.m. 
The Department of Music Presents 
Guest Artist 

f£dward Pannentier 
in a 

J-farpsicfwrd 2?.f_cita[ 
puforming 1corkR by 

PETER PHILIPS, WILLIAM BYRD, 
GIROLAMO FRESCOBALDI, ANDREA GABRIEL/,
GIOVANN/ GABRJELI, {£AN-PHILIPPE RAMEAU• FRANCOIS COUP ERIN, ENNEMOND GAULTIER. & {OHANN SEBASTIAN BACH 
Sunday, Octo6er 9, 1994 2:00p.m. 
:\.nnenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
-

The ObserverScott MendenhaiV Running back Andi Odicino and Pasquerilla West face Lewis at Cartier. 
Pasquerilla East v. Knott 
Knott has had a lot of time to prepare for tonight's game against fifth-ranked Pasquerilla East. 
The Angels have had over a week and a half to work on new plays and improve their defensive assault squad. Looking for their first win, cap­tain Kelly Koski looks forward to try out changes in the offense against a competitive team. 
P.E. isn't taking Knott's win­less record into account. 
"We've implemented some big changes in order to get some more points on the 
board," said P.E. captain Sue O'Kain. "We'll treat Knott as any other team with the ability to win." 
P.E. is one of many teams frustrated by a series of tied games. Their defense remains strong with good size, talented freshmen, and a quick sec­ondary. Neither of the last two teams they've played have been able to score. 
While Knott hopes their break from games has helped them raise their level of play, P.E. is expecting a good performance from both offense and defense. 
However, as O'Kain com­mented, "When you're out on that field, its anyone's game." 
HAVE YOU EVER CONSIDERED THE DIFFERENCE IT WOULD MAKE TO JOIN A FIRM WITH A GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE? 



Merrill Lynch 

cordially invites you to attend an Information Session regarding career opportunities in 
Investment Banking Debt & Equity Markets 

October 13, 1994 at 6:30p.m. Hesburgh Peace Center-The Greenfields Room Reception to follow Casual Attire 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 

The difference is Merrill Lynch. 





~Merrill Lynch 
©1994 Merrill Lynch & Co. A tradition of trust. 
-
Thursday, October 6, 1994 
•NBA 

Former Irish star Monty Williams signs with Knicks 
Associated Pre.o;s 
NEW YORK 
The New York Knicks an­nounced the signing Wednesday of first-round draft choice Monty Williams to a multi-year contract. 
Terms were not disclosed for Williams, the 24th player cho­sen in the NBA draft. 
Williams, a 6-foot-8 forward, led Notre Dame, averaging 
22.4 points per game and 8.2 rebounds. He finished his col­lege career as Notre Dame's 12th leading scorer with 1,371 points. 
The Knicks' other first round pick, Florida State's Charlie Ward, signed a multi-year con­tract on Sept. 28. 


S_P~CIAL NEEDS: 3 poor parishes have requested men; 2 have requested b1-hngual (Span.) persons; mature women needed to serve with homeless families. 

"The mission ofthe Church is to evangelize." 
-Pope Paul VI 

DID YOU EVER DREAM OF BEING 
A~\\ MISSIONARY? IT'S POSSIBLE! 7 • Catholic Evangelizing Ministries 
• Open to couples, singles and religious 
• Serve for a year or more among the poor/homeless in NY area 
• Ongoing training & ministry support 

•Community living 
2704 Schurz Avenue Throgs Neck, Bronx, NY I0465


LA P 
(718)409-5062

MINISTRIES Tom & Lyn Scheuring. Ph.D.s. Directors 
Marybeth & Ed Greene. Assoc. Directors 

'The Spirit ofthe Lord is upon me...to bring GOOD NEWS to the POOR..."(Lk 4: 19) 




APPOINTMENTS & WALK-INS WELCOME r------------· coupon -------------, 
r-------------coupon -------------,
I I 
\PERM PLUS EXTRA lTANNING PACKAGES I 
I

:•shampoo 
I 
I

l•Precision Cut :1 month Unlimited Tanning 
:•Quality Perm lFacial Tanners • Stereos 
:•complete Style Long Hair :closed Sunday-Monday


:•With Selected Stylists I
Extra l•Reg. $65 ZOTOWAVE I I l Must present coupon -Expires 1 0-30·94 Must present coupon -Expires 10-30-94 
I I 

L-----------------------------------~ L----------------------------------­
r-------------coupon -------------, r-------------coupon -------------, :FACIAL SERVICE : I 
I 
:•SCULPTURED NAILS 


$451!2 

:Free Eye Treatment Cream/Gel l•GEL TIPS 
I Reg.$55 
I sa 500
:sy Clarins of Paris I I lWith a Facial Service 
:•FILL INS 

:Reg. $45.00 I 
I

I 

I

I 
I

l Must present coupon -Expires 1 0-30-94 l Must present coupon-Expires 10-30-94 
L-----------------------------------~ L----------------------------------­272-0312 272-8471 
ST. RD. 23, IRONWOOD 



•· 
• .. .. 5 .... '. '"-.... ~-......-4 .......... -• ~ .............. ·--· &. ....... -' ...... . 
-~· 


THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents 
AMERICA, ENGLAND, AND ITALY: THE GEOGRAPHY OF CATHOLIC CONVERSION 
Patrick Allitt Emory University 

Thursday, October 6 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
..
••... ~·"'·····to·.,.'. ~ ... -..-~-.. -... 
continued from page 16 
The Attitudes were plagued by penalties in the early-going, which kept them from scoring and allowed Lyons to score. 
Quarterback Julie Byrd and tailback Jenny Layden were the story of the evening for Lyons. Together they passed and ran up the field on their first pos­session, and Byrd ran the ball in for a touchdown. Lyons was unable to convert on the extra 

Happy 21st,Jenny ... the day after ... 

... still feeling the effects? 
Love, The John Black fan club 

presents 





KATE BARRETT 
on 

Mary Kate Love! 20 down and 1 to go!! 
their loss and came out passing, but time ran out and they went into the second half trailing 6-0. 
Tough defense on both sides made the first possessions of the second half uneventful. On Lyons' second possession, Byrd and Layden again combined their efforts to drive down the field. 
Layden caught a long pass from Byrd and ran in for a touchdown. Lyons failed to score on the extra point score, as captain Jill Satanek caught a long pass for a touch­down. 
The Lyons offense picked up where they left off, and Byrd passed to Amanda Gast for a touchdown with less than a minute to go in the second half. 
The final score was a decisive victory for Lyons, 19-6. Quarterback Julie Byrd at­tributed the win to various ele­ments. 
"We executed the plays well, were focused, concentrated, and intense." 
"We just got beat," said Badin's head coach Tom McDonald. "We need to do bet­ter in every aspect of the game." 
Pangborn 19, Cavanaugh 6 
To cap off the night, the Pangborn Phoxes took on the Cavanaugh Cavaliers. Cavanaugh came on strong, dri­ving down the field for a touch­down on their first possession. Fullback Carrie Howard ran the ball into the end zone for Cavanaugh's first touchdown of the season. 
attempt, setting the tone for the rest of the game. 
From this point on, Pangborn dominated on both sides of the ball. The Phoxes stellar offen­sive effort was led by wide receiver/running back Kelly Brady. 
"She did it all," said Coach Eric Cuningham. 
The Phoxes quickly answered Cavanaugh's touchdown with one of their own. With ten min­utes left in the half, Kelly Brady ran for 65 yards and put the Phoxes on the scoreboard. 
Pangborn failed to score the extra point, and Cavanaugh took over. The Cavaliers could not get their offense going, and had to punt to Pangborn. 
The Phoxes then marched down to the endzone. Quarterback, Mary Kraft threw a 50-yard pass which Kelly Brady caught and took into the end zone. 
Kraft passed to Stacey Baker up the middle for the extra point. 
The Cavaliers could not get things started on offense, and they went in to the second half trailin~ 13-6. 
ond half, as did Cavanaugh. Mary Kraft and the Pangborn offense pushed down the fteld, and Trish Sorenson was able to score on a 3-yard option run with five minutes left in the half. 
Cavanaugh coach Greg Montgomery was proud of his team for fmally scoring. 
"We played strong defense, and our offense stepped it up this week," he said. "They are really starting to develop. We're a new team, but a good team. 
"We need to work on our option defense and pass de­fense. We've played some of the best teams in the league this season, and we're really starting to improve." 
Pangborn's coaches Greg Bannon and Eric Cunningham agreed that the Phoxes defense "played tough." Both coaches felt that Kelly Brady was the key player for Pangborn. 
"Our offense picked it up tonight," he said. "They showed what they really had," Bannon said. 
~~ 
~ 

Hope it's a wonderful birthday-We Miss You!! 
Lots of Love, "From all your Family" 

K~~fclE S • ( ~t~M 
A C?(T~~EK (., LIB~:f\K'f f\UD\T?KIUI'\ 
·U\TINC? fo.~TIVI (I'\ • L.UL-11~ YC?UN<i l:3n p.tn. 
lf(tfTI~N WITII t..USlltiL <;aUE\TI (c;>~ <? tRIMkVfl~ 





____________________..,. 
Thursday, October 6, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
I 
I I I 
I 
point attempt. attempt. The Cavaliers were unable to Pangborn came up short on Badin attempted to recoup Next it was Badin's turn to convert on the extra point their ftrst possession of the sec­
Women ­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thurday, October 6, 1994 
• SAINT MARY'S • COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Belles lose fall home Frazier likely to miss rest of season 
By J.L. SCHMIDT ence," Gangahar said from That smaller vein, he said, like­Associated Press Bryan Memorial Hospital. "But ly rubbed against the larger
finale to DePauw as it goes today that is my rec­inner vein, causing the second 
ommendation to the coach." blood clot in two weeks. 
LINCOLN, Neb.
By TARA KRULL son with a losing record, 
Nebraska quarterback Osborne admitted the doctor Spans Writer Cromer and her team have high Tommie Frazier, hospitalized probably was right, but he The larger second clotexpectations for their longer. 
wasn't ready to give up yet. discovered Tuesday has been
with a blood clot in his right
The Saint Mary's tennis team regular spring season. 
"You never say never in ath­dissolved, Gangahar said.
leg, is all but certain to miss
was defeated Tuesday by "Overall, I am pleased with 
letics," Osborne said after Doctors now want Frazier's
the rest of the season.
DePauw University 6-3. in their the outcome of this f~ll." she A doctor Wednesday recom­practice. "But I wouldn't hold blood to gradually thicken sofall season home finale. The said. "We played tough teams mended surgery and said out that hope to anybody. The they can operate to tie off the loss left the Belles with an over­and we played them well, so I main concern now is down the smaller vein. 
Frazier, once a leading con­
alll-2 record. definitely believe that we are road ... to get him healthy." After a first clot. about 6 to 8
tender for the Heisman
"Victories were just slipping on the right track for a solid Trophy, should have no physi­Gangahar said Frazier inches long, was discovered away from us," coach Katie spring season." " showed no expression when Sept. 25 behind Frazier's right
cal contact for three to six
Cromer said. "We had chances Cromer also noted that the told the news. knee, Gangahar said Fraziermonths.
to win matches, but we seemed losses the Belles suffered came Dr. Deepak Gangahar, a car­"Tommie kept his chin up would be out for the season ifto have troulbe ending them." from teams who have extensive and recognized the reality," he the clot re-formed. 
diovascular surgeon, said the
fall seasons. In return, those 20-year-old junior from said. While clots like Frazier's areThe Belles started off on the teams have had more of a Bradenton, Fla., should remain The doctor said he is 90 per­not rare, Ganghar said theyright foot with two wins turned chance to establish themselves in the hospital for a week to 10 cent sure Frazier will have usually occur among the elder­in by the number one doubles as a team than the Belles have days for an operation. surgery to tie off a surface vein ly or those with heart disease team of seniors Andrea Ayres at this point. 
that had a smaller blood clot. or cancer.
"Medicine is an inexact sci-
and Robin Hrycko, and the Nevertheless, this fall season number three doubles team of has given the team hope for the freshmen Nora Slusar and Kate spring. It also gave them a Marhoefer. chance to get to know each 
Sophomore Kate Kozacik, the other which will allow for a Belles' number one singles smooth beginning once they player, made a great comeback start up again in January. after losing her first set 6-2. Unfortunately, she suffered leg "This season was definitely a cramps during her tie-breaker plus for team bonding," set and was forced to back Kozacik stated. "Everyone feels down on her opponent in the comfortable now calling a end. teammate and asking her if 
"I tried to just stay out there she wants to get together and and play through it," Kozacik practice." said. "It was just so frustrating According to Cromer, it will 
1"ritfay, OctoEer 7

though, because I had a good be this team unity and extra chance at winning the match practice during the Belles' time after losing my first set." off that will make the team a 
Cromer noted that the team's winning one next spring. 
!J{eaven andt£artli: 6:00-8:20
inexperience was probably the "As long as everyone contin­main factor in their loss against ues to work hard and we gain a DePauw. little more experience, there's "We had many matches go all no reason why Saint Mary's 

M.tJ3utteif{y: 8:25-10:05
the way to three sets, but we won't be a team to beat," just did not have it in ourselves Cromer said. to carry out the sets into wins," she added. Saint Mary's Soccer will take 
Likg, Water for Cfwco{ate:
Despite the fact that the on The University of Chicago Belles concluded their fall sea-today at 4 p.m. at home. 
10:10-11:17 
fJJie Last t£mperor: 11:25-1:30 
•

•
•
• 
Location: Carro{{.9Lucfitorium $1.00 per movie 
•
• 





suBwAY CLuB 

At ~UBWAY, we feel we can ~e a~art of ~our ~atur~a~. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL SEASON STUDENT TICKETS! 
FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES TODAY! 
11 games for $44 -JUST $4/ GAME! 
• 
INDIANA • DUKE • BOSTON COLLEGE • KENTUCKY 

• 
MARQUETTE • DUQUESNE • XAVIER STUDENT TICKET DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE 


Sophomores Thursday Oct6 8a.m.-12:30 p.m. Freshmen Thursday Oct6 12:30 p.m.-5 p.m. 
STUDENT ISSUE AT GATE 10-JOYCE ACC 


Thursday, October 6, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 



FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
IT 'Be:6..N W.TI< 1He: 'St-AP.rL•"6 o-'6"""''1 ~THe: s,,.,,... ..,,,,.-~ 13ETc,....JEEN "Nos.T~t>Amvs" ANb 
'No,.c 1::¥-"'E. ... " 
t:P.AAf'S, 13'-1 'SoMe: C••M•C. c.,,.,_ 
Nt:<-TioN, (\losTAA"DA.mtJS fut::J~,c.TE NOT"-<.1Mm£• Fun>"e. Fo'-'lt 
C£1'1TW<ot < E.AP.Lo£/2.. 
THE MARKETING J"013 
OPENED BECAUSE THE 
PREVIOUS MANAGER 
~ 

GOT RUN DOWN IN THE. !i PARKING LOT. 
} 

54 Sullivan Award grp. 55 Sommelier's offerings 56 "Four Quartets" poet 58 Temporary 60 Sprays, perhaps 61 Ruin, as plans 62 Naguib's successor 63 Originally 
DOWN 
1 Shooter supporter 2 Took back 3 Highest orbital points 4Get wider 5Whopper juniors 6 Henri's here 7 Dupe a Bathing suit top 
9Bit 
42 Cracker toppers 51 Florentine 10 Takes to the painter
45 Certain code 

street edge 
carrier 53 Spot11 Uniform 
36 Where nautical 47 Ruthless ruler 55 "Star Trek" attachment 
rope is wound Klingon
49 Book12 Visualize 

37 Uzbek lake 57 Finish'd
containing13ls incensed­38 Duelers' legends 59 Youngster15 Comprehends 

equipment 20 Drink opener 39 W.W. II craft 23 Resolve, as 40 Masters 
Get answers to any three clues
differences tournament 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
24 Consoles location 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
27 Kid corrals 41 Freeloader 

BILL WATTERSON CALVIN AND HOBBES 


WHEN THEY 

NE.EOED A UNDER YOUR
GOOD MANAGER 1 THEY KNE.W BUMPER7 WHERE TO 
I 
LOOK. 
I 

• 


ACROSS 
1 Jam maker 
a Mounds of arms 14 Facsimile 15 Tour follower 16 Occupy 17 Treadmill 18 They may try 
you 19 RR depot 21 Borders 22 Look up and 
down 23 "No bid" 25 Curve between 
musical notes 26"Agnus-" 27 Crustacean 
catcher 29 Before 
30 Scopes Trial 
defender 32 Fit into the schedule 
34 Coal container 35 Razor-billed bird 36 Reindeer relative 40 Like this answer 43 Constellation next to Scorpius 
44 Membership fee for 39-Down? 46 Shipping letters 
48"-Wasa Rollin' Stone" (1972 hit) 
50 Picker-uppers 51 Stories 52 Uses a knife 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~=+:'::-+:::-! ..::-+::+.=+:::::+::~ 
~=+..,...,..,-~ ~.::...J..:..:..J,..;~ 


SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, October 6, 1994 
• WOMEN'S INTERHAU fOOHlALL
• MEN's SocceR 
Walsh tops Badin, 14-7 

• WOMEN'S INTERHAll fOOTBALL • fOOTBALl 

Blue race heats up as Off-Campus, Siegfried clash 
By K.C. GOYER 
Sports Writer 
Siegfried will be serving up something spe­cial for a hungry Off-Campus team. 
"[Off-Campus] has a good quarterback," Siegfried co-captain Sam Spencer said. "we'll need to shut her down. 
Spencer would not elaborate further on her thoughts about the upcoming game, but com­mented that her team has been stressing orga­nization and execution on both offense and de­fense all week. Off-Campus is confident that they have the necessary talent to win, but ac­knowledge that no team is to be taken lightly. 
With some of the finest offensive and defen­sive lines in the league, the experience of many seniors, and dedicated coaches who have assessed and utilized their talent well, the Off­Campus team packs a powerful punch. 
However, the eighth ranked Slammers have yet to lose a game and are not willing to settle for one of the many ties that plagued interhall 
see IH I page 12 

By JENNY SHANK 
Sports Writer 
An exciting evening of women's inter­hall football was kicked off by a game between top-ranked Walsh and the Howard Ducks. 
Anne Jackoboice scored the first touchdown for Walsh as they went into the second half leading the Ducks by a score of 7-0. 
To start off the second half, Sarah Norton capped a long drive by scoring a touchdown for Howard. The Ducks went to Angel Donovan who scored the extra point. 
Walsh quickly answered with another touchdown, as Luz Maria Rodriguez ran the ball in the end zone. Walsh's Rachel Kavanagh ran up the middle and con­verted on the extra point attempt. 
The final score was 14-7. Walsh improved their record to 4-0, and Howard dropped to 0-3. 
Walsh captain Kirsten Edmunson said that key catches on offense allowed them to win. 
"We had two interceptions on defense by Genna Gwynn and Meg Hogerty," she said. "Diane Cook and Becky Cantwell both made key tackles. We just wanted to go out there and win so that we could stay number one." 
Lyons 19, Badin 6 

In the second game of the evening, Lyons faced the Badin Attitudes. Badin's speedy Kim Gold got things started with a long kick-off return. 
The Attitudes threatened to score, but Lyons' tough defense kept them at bay. 
see WOMEN I page 13 


By HOWARD ULMAN Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Just 47 seconds left. Third-and-10 at his own 25. Down by one point in front of a hostile crowd. 
Make the catch and Pete Mitchell would rekindle hopes for an upset that would shake the very top of the national rankings. Miss it and only one desperate chance would remain to avoid a stunning choke. 
Pete Mitchell made the catch. 
From that 12-yard gain last Nov. 20, Boston College gained momen­tum that ended in David Gordon's 41-yard field goal on the final play. It gave the Eagles a 41-39 win at Notre Dame, which had erased a 38­17 fourth-quarter deficit. 
It was the last regular-season game for the Fighting Irish, who went into it at 10-0 with the No. 1 ranking. They came out of it ranked fourth and ended the season in the Jets, and Mark Hartsell, who has
Eagles' tight end 
thrown just 56 passes, will start at quarterback.knows Irish out "We're there with Mark," Mitchell said. "He's a very confident kid. He's
for revenge 

not cocky but he's very confident and wants to win badly." second spot. The presence of a reliable veteran 
Mitchell had "by far the best game like Mitchell should help. of my career" with 13 catches for Mitchell had 10 receptions in the 132 yards, two touchdowns and 10 opening 34-26 loss to Michigan, first downs. He added a 24-yard re-scored in a 12-7 loss to Virginia ception to the Notre Dame 33 with Tech and caught just two passes in a 19 seconds left. 21-9 win at Pittsburgh in which the 
But Glenn Foley's 12-yard pass Eagles focused on running the ball. after two incompletions was the Now comes Notre Dame, a big biggest. favorite with a 4-1 record. 
"It steamrolled from there," "The media is making a large deal Mitchell said. "It just seemed like • out of this game," Mitchell said. "I Glenn threw the ball only where we think all we need to know is the 90 could catch it." guys on this team believe we can win 
Mitchell, an outstanding pro this game and we expect to win this prospect at tight end, will be back game. for Saturday's rematch at Boston "We just made too many mistakes College. Foley. a four-year starter. won't be. He's with the New York see MITCHELL I page 11 


of note•..
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Dillon and Breen-Phillips won the
A further look at last and tonight's action on 
interhall cross country titles. Joe 
the gridiron. 
Kerbleski and Julie Toth won the
See page 12-13 
men and women's individual titles. 







