
<THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
University to install e-mail in rooms 
By VIVIAN GEMBARA News Writer 
By May 1996, waiting lists at the computer clusters will be a thing of the past as students should be able to access E­mail-as well as other University research informa­tion-directly from a hole in their dorm room wall. 
To alleviate the excessive use of the close to 500 computers available to students, the University has embarked on a project to link the campus com­puting network to 2,900-plus dorm rooms and apartments. 
"We see computers to be an increasing part of tools needed for a Notre Dame education," said Donald Spicer, assistant provost for University comput­ing. .. 
The installation work into individual rooms is slated to begin in May and expected to be activated by the fall of 1996. 
The projected cost of the expansion is $5.3 million but no increase in tuition is immedi­ately forseeable, said Spicer. A portion of student annual fees may also cover the cost. 
The installation will allow students with personal comput­ers to plug directly into a wall port and access campus resources. The fiber-based net­work linkage will bring the Hesburgh Library's on-line cat-. put on current clusters, mean­afford, we hope that with the Clusters will be accessible to alog and research computing ing a possible decrease in lines expansion more students will entire classes on more occa­facilities directly into the dorm and back-up. be able to use different comput­sions rather than being tied up room without use of a modem. He also forsees clusters ers at the clusters," Spicer said. for public use as word proces­Campus wide information and becoming more specialized in Without the pressure of pro­sors. E-mail -popular reasons for the future. viding for normal cluster use, "We think we are somewhat current cluster use-will also "In the engineering and sci­the University plans to add to on the leading edge, in two be available in dorm rooms. ence clusters, there are expen­the various computers and years we will have the facilities 
Spicer expects that with the sive and powerful machines computer functions currently that will enable students to do expansion, less pressure will be that most students couldn't available. much more," Spicer said. 

Student assaulted in break-in 
By SARAH DORAN News Editor 
. A suspect was arrested Fri­day morning in connection with the Lafayette Square burglaries of two Notre Dame students and sexual assault of one of them, according to Captain James Clark of the South Bend Police Department. 
The arrest took place at 7:35 
a.m. Friday after an ND stu­dent awoke to find a stranger sitting on the floor of her bed­room. 
She immediately left the townhouse, looking for a mem­ber of the complex's 24-hour security, but could not locate anyone and went to a neighbor to call police and report the in­truder. 
Police responded and found James Calvin Williams, 30, of South Bend, walking around outside of the complex. It was during this time that he was identified by another Notre Dame student as the man who had entered her town house and sexually assaulted her ear­lier that morning .. 
"It seemed as if Williams was going from apartment to apart­ment," said Clark. 
Williams claimed that he had attended a party at the com­plex the night before, Clark added. 
Police found no sign of a forced entry in either incident. 
see ASSAULT I page 4 

Investment tool to combat poverty 
By ROBERT CAHILL News Writer 
The best way tQ combat urban poverty is to create eco­nomic opportunities for the inner city poor by providing serious job training, according to Elijah Anderson, the Charles and William Day Professor of Social Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania, in a lecture yesterday afternoon. 
"These rich corporations must invest in the inner city if we are ever going to alleviate the plight of the inner city resi­dents," he said. 
"Ethical and moral standards demand that these economic dominants to respond to these problems. The U.S. government must also respond to the lower .end of the economy-the inner city economy or drug econo­my." 
Through his research, Day has found that the role of the black grandmother has a very prominent position in the inner city. 
"The black grandma is the 
the inner city, he said. tude of commonly held stereo­head or anchor of the family," "A great number of people types of blacks has also addedhe said. "She holds the whole are falling through the cracks," to inner city unemployment. 

kinship structure together. She Anderson said. "They are be­One of America's best-known
takes care of her children's 
coming invisible to white soci­urban ethnographers and soci­

children when the parents 
ety and to the black middle ologists, Day is the author of "Aabandon their kids." 

class society." Place on the Corner" andBut it is the transformation Other than the change in the "Streetwise" as well as many

from a manufacturing-based 
U.S. economy, the new global other scholarly articles. Hiseconomy to a service and high economy has cost the inner city address was part of the

tech-based economy that has 
many jobs, according to Day . Henkels Visiting Scholarscaused most of the problems in In adc;lition, the prevailing atti-Series. 





Saint Mary's to start new teaching blocks 
By LAURA FERGUSON and faculty dissatisfaction Saint Mary's News Editor with the previous course of study. 
A new curriculum plan for "Students in the old system elementary education majors were pressured with cram­at Saint Mary's College was ming classes in only when unveiled to students last night they fit into schedules, and not in an attempt to make the focusing on what the classes courses of study more efficient actually had to offer," and effective. Freeberg said. "Also transfer­
The department will insti­ring students or those who tute a block plan curriculum went abroad were in a sense beginning next fall. A block punished with a fifth year or plan is an organizational summer school, plus there device used in education to was little room left for taking group a set of like courses electives." together. Another problem, according 
The courses included in the to Freeberg, was that faculty block plan will cover topics in­focused only on their course cluding educational methods but not what other's in the de­and material as well as com­partment were doing. This re­puter technology and will cre­sulted in overlapping of mate­ate a consistent background rial taught. for elementary education "In the old curriculum it was majors. Theories on teaching difficult for students to devel­in multicultural environments op a transference of knowl­are also at the center of all the edge. It was left up to the block courses. individual student," she said. 
"These topics in the block Based on what students programs will help students in have already taken, they were their search for jobs after placed into two separate graduation," said Karilee blocks-A and B. Next fall, Freeberg, chair of the educa­students in block A will take tion department. the four courses listed in that 
These changes, which were block, while B block students approved by the curriculum will enroll in the required B committee and the academic courses. Both blocks must be affairs committee, are being implemented due to students see EDUCATION I page 4 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, March 22, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Membership has its privileges 
Much has changed at the University of Notre Dame over the years, yet a few athletic makeovers are still in order. Club sports are stiffed every time Notre Dame's bud­get is drawn. Looking from the club sports perspective, future Notre Dame students have a slim chance of watching a university­sponsored match-up in women's lacrosse, crew, synchronized swimming, or water polo. 
The spirit of Notre Dame still pervades club sports, regardless of the lack of funding. No club team member declares another alma mater when pressed because of a financial roadblock. Money doesn't breed pride or fame. In fact, a club athlete may just be that much more of a champion because of his or her lack of university recognition. There is no glory for a club team, without even a printed schedule to prove that it exists, but the guts abound. · 
Club athletes work equally as hard or hard­er than their varsity counterparts, who arrive on campus each fall on the magic scholarship carpet. Dedicated club athletes attend their grueling practices daily without fear of sanc­tions from their underpaid or volunteer coach­es. They have the love of the sport motivating them, along with the hope of one day being varsity team members. 
The desire to be a varsity team runs deeper than just the title. If the only means of gaining university support is to be a recognized varsity team, then so be it. Club teams would be sated with funding and support. if not scholar­ships and television deals. The goal isn't an NBC contract, just a little respect. After all, membership has its privileges. Varsity players receive equipment, uniforms, training facili­ties, and significant funding from the univer­sity, while club teams support themselves. 
It is only salt for the wounds to have varsity athlete neighbors saunter past the room every now and again en route to another all-expense paid tournament. Mute reflection afterward, a mixture of jealousy and awe, strengthens the desire to work harder and one day be a varsi­ty athlete. 
The university seems to be a bit unsure about what it takes for a team to be a varsity sport. Club teams can and do draw the same size crowds of many varsity events. The ath­letes are as dedicated and talented as varsity members and there is plenty of area competi­tion. However, without university support, there is no way to ever meet these teams and complement the image of the Notre Dame stu­dent athlete. 
Varsity athletes exclaim their disbelief of the amount of money the team has to literally play with. Meanwhile, back on the club team ranch, athletes are adding panhandling to their resumes as they look for pledges and support. What club teams need is a modern­day Robin Hood to come to the rescue. 
It's worth repeating: membership has its privileges. Right now club teams are stuck holding the ladder of athletics at Notre Dame. From here, it looks like a long, steep climb. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Lab Tech Liz Foran Kyle Kusek Mara Divis J. Lawrence Peters Production Spons Cheryl Moser Bryan Connolly Erin Punell Accent Business Lisa Monaco Michael Martin Graphics David Clairmont Chris Weirup 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 







Tuesday, March 22, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS 

ND graduates head schools 
By JENNIFER GIOVA 
News Writer 
Brother Michael McGinniss, a graduate of Notre Dame, has recently been named president of the Christian Brothers Col­lege in Memphis Tennessee. 
McGinniss' appointment adds to the growing list of Notre Dame alumni who hold chief executive positions at American colleges and universities. He is the 26th alumnus to preside over such an institution. 
The 26 presidents or chancel­lors hold positions at a variety of colleges and universities. Of the 26, five of whom are women, 14 preside at Catholic institutions, nine at state schools, and three at private institutions. 
This number is quite high for a university of our size, accord­ing to Charles Lennon of the Alumni Association. "We are even more pleased at what they've done for the field of ed­ucation." 
This is an especially impor­tant achievement, considering the University has not had an education program since the late 1960's, said Lennon. 
The Master's in the Art of Teaching program awarded degrees to many graduates, who have held various teaching positions in local high schools and elementary schools. 
"Many graduates who are 




CLUB COLUMN 
February 22, 1994 
Any dub wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4:00 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday editionofThe .·· Observer. Please drop offentries to the Club Coordination Council office in room 206 LaFortune. 
I. IMPORTANT-The Club Coordination Council would like to inform all clubs that the 1994-1995 registration packet is ready fOr pick up. The packet is due MARCH 2 at 4:00 P.M. THERE ARE NO EXCEPTIONS! Club presidents should check their mailboxe~i on the second floor ofLaFortune'across from the Student · Government Office. 
2. PHYSICAL THERAPY CLUB meeting on March 22 at 7 p.in; j~ ,. 
Nieuwland Room 123. Speaker from Krannert School ...9r~ilys~f~.... ::~·JH):;l: Therapy in Indiana will speak on admissions, courses, and job <)p&~~­nities upon graduation. . . . • . • 'il!!iii 

IT'S BACK! 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 
5:00p.m... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 

Free Delivery • 271~1177 

currently presiding over col­leges and universities do not hold education degrees from Notre Dame," said Lennon. Rather, they have taken the Liberal Arts and general educa­tion that they received here at Notre Dame and applied it to their professions today. 
"The high number of alumni holding such high leadership positions is a display of the great education they received at Notre Dame," Lennon said. 
The 26 graduates posses a combined total of 44 degrees. William Hickey, Sr. is another Notre Dame graduate presiding at an American college. Hickey is president of Saint Mary's College. 

1994 Morrissey Manor Film Festival Thursday, March 24, at 7:30p.m. Stepan Center $2 Admission Proceeds to Benefit: St. Hedwigs Outreach  
GET REAL EXPERIENCE MANAGING A BUSINESS APPLY FOR A STUDENT MANAGER POSITION AT THE HUDDLE REWARDS: , • $6.10 PER HOUR • WORK ON CAMPUS • FREE MEALS AT WORK • GREAT EXPERIENCE TO ADD TO YOUR RESUME REQUIREMENTS: • 15-20 HR'S PER WEEK • A STRONG DESIRE TO LEARN *HARD WORK • WORK SOME NIGIU SfllFTS • WORK SOME WEEKENDS • BE ABLE TO WORK EXTRA ON HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS APPLY IN PERSON AT THE miDDLE LOCATED IN THE LAFORTIJNE STIJDENT CENTER ASK FOR JIM. 631-6902 POSnlONISFORFALLSEMESTER TRAINING WILL START AS SOON N3 THE SUCCESSFUL APPLICANTS ARE AVAILABLE. COULD WORK TillS SUMMER IF DESIRED  


page 4 



It's not too late to 


Work Catering
for Graduation 
MA: -15 
Free 
om And Board plus 


$6°0/hour 

Housing deadline -April 4 Catering Office -Basement SDH or Call 631-5449 
' 
Coming in April from Campus Ministry! 

HAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RElATIONSHIP? 
A workshop for couples in a serious relatiunship who want to explore choices and decisiuns for the future including the possibility ofmarriage 
Sunday, Apri110, 1994 1:00 -5:00 p.m. 

Applications will be avai/o,ble at either Campus Ministry office: 
Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
on 
Wednesday, March 30 
(!Jlestions? Call631-5242 

--------------------~---------­
The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, March 22, 1994 
SECURITY BEAT

Assault 
continued from page 1 

Residential burglary is a Class B felony that carries a maximum 10 year jail sentence for each count while sexual assault is a Class D felony that carries a maximum punish­ment of a one and a half year jail sentence and a $10,000 fme. 
Williams was released from jail on a $5,000 bond with a court date set for April 4, 1994, said Clark. 

FOOD GUIDE PYRAMID A Guide to Daily Food Choices
D'Oil,,'"' s.... 
Milk Group 

Vegetable Group 

Use the Food Guide Pyramid to help you better every day ... the Dietary Guideli~es way. Start with plenty of Breads, Cereals, Rice, and Pasta: Vege~ables; and Fru1ts. Add two to three servings from the Milk group and two to three serv1ngs from the Meat group. Each of these food groups provides some, but not all, of the nutrients you need. No one food group is more important than another --for good health you need them all. Go easy on fats, oils, and sweets, the foods in the small tip of the Pyramid. 
How many servings do you need each day? 
Women and some  Children, teen girls,  Teen boys and  
older adults  active women, and  active men  
most men  
Calorie level*  about 1,600  about 2,200  about 2,800  
Bread group  6  9  11  
Vegetable group  3  4  5  
Fruit group  2  3  4  
Milk group  **2-3  **2-3  **2-3  
Meat group  2, for a total  2, for a total  3, for a total  
of 5 ounces  of 6 ounces  of 7 ounces  

• These are the calorie levels if you choose lowfat. lean foods from the 5 major food groups and use foods from the fats, oils. and sweets group sparingly. 
"Women who are pregnant or breastfeedlng, teenagers, and young adults to age 24 need 3 servings. 
What counts as one serving? 
Breads, Cereals, Rice, and Pasta Milk, Yogurt, and Cheese 1 slice of bread 
1 cup of milk or yogurt 1/2 cup of cooked rice or pasta 1-1/2 to 2 ounces of cheese 1/2 cup of cooked cereal 1 ounce of ready-to-eat cereal Vegetables 1/2 cup of chopped raw or 
Meat, Poultry, Fish, Dry Beans, cooked vegetables Eggs, and Nuts 1 cup of leafy raw -.:egetables 2-1/2 to 3 ounces of cooked lean 
meat. poultry, or fish Fruits Count 1/2 cup of cooked beans, or 1 egg, 1 piece of fruit or melon wedge 
or 2 tablespoons of peanut butter as 1 3/4 cup of juice 
ounce of lean meat (about 1/3 serving) 1/2 cup of canned fruit 
1/4 cup of dried fruit Fats, Oils, and Sweets LIMIT CALORIES FROM THESE especially if you need to lose weight 
A Closer Look at Fat and Added Sugars 
The small tip of the Pyramid shows fats. oils, and sweets. These are foods such as salad dressings, cream, butter, margarine, sugars, soft drinks, candies, and sweet desserts. Alcoholic beverages are also part of this group. These foods provide calories but few vitamins and minerals. Most people should go easy on foods from this 
group. 

Some fat or sugar can appear in the other food groups. Some foods in these groups can also be high in fat and added sugars. such as cheese or ice cream from the milk group, or french fries from the vegetable group. When choosing foods for a healthful diet, consider the fat and added sugars in your choices from all the food groups, not just fats, oils, and sweets from the Pyramid tip. 
This week Is National Collegiate Health and Wellness Week, bmught to you by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. For more information or help, please call631·7970. 

Education 
continued from page 1 
completed by the end of junior year. 
Education faculty are also split into the two corresponding blocks and act as an instruc­tional team. 
"Professors will work closely together within the blocks," said professor Sylvia Whitmer. "This integration is a nice idea and will help to avoid overlaps in teaching. Besides, it is good for students to see their in­structors working together." 
All of the courses in these blocks are newly developed and most are worth two credits to­ward graduation. 
According to Freeburg, these two credit courses will be equally as difficult as previous courses but will be more fo­cused and concentrate on the most important areas. 
"Also, since neither block is a full course load students who transfer into the department or go abroad may take both blocks at the same time," Freeburg said. "It will also allow stu­dents to take more college cores, electives, and courses for minor requirements." 
"College required core classes become important because they are a major portion of the stu­dents' knowledge base," she said. 

According to Freeburg, stu­dents seemed to have a general positive reaction to the curricu­lum changes. 
"Some seemed apprehensive before everything was ex­plained," she said. "Some thought that they might have to take courses over again or that they might have to take an ex­tra year. Now they are assured that this will not happen." 
"I think that this will work out better in the long run than the previous program and I like the fact that I will have less prob­lems at registration," said Mc­Candless sophomore Maggie Fitzpatrick. 
Other students have less of a positive view regarding the changes. 
"I think that these changes would be great to an incoming freshman but it is hard to change as a sophomore," said LeMans sophomore Sara Leav­itt. 
Other schools, such as Bowl­ing Green University and Indi­ana University South Bend are also using the block plan teach­ing method in their education departments, however this is the first time this method is being used at Saint Mary's. 
Tuesday, March 22, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Gonzalez calls for congressional hearings 
By lARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Democratic chairman of the House Banking Committee called Monday for "full hear­ings on the so-called Whitewater affair," joining his party's reluctant push toward congressional review of the controversy. 
"It is, I believe, time for Democrats to use tfie truth, the weapon Republicans fear most," said Rep. Henry B. Gonzalez of Texas. 
He canceled his committee's Thursday hearing, which Republicans had hoped to use to question Clinton administra­tion officials and others about the controversy. 
"It is unacceptable to permit the Republicans an occasional day of hearings that they can use to haul out one or another half-truth or launch yet another 
....AS YOU WISH'' 
I M P 0 R T S 

JL0-50o/o OFF~ 
Jewelry, Accessories, & Clothing
from 
Guatemala Nepal Brazil Mexico 
March 21-26 (Sat.)
10 a.m.-5 p.m. LaFortune Rm. 108 
(near telephones) 
Peru India 
smoke bomb," he said. 

Gonzalez's statement followed a Senate decision last week to hold Whitewater hearings at an unspecified date. 
Rep. Lee Hamilton of Indiana, the Democratic chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said last week that Congress should schedule hear­ings. 
House Speaker Thomas S. Foley has repeatedly opposed Whitewater hearings on any matter that special counsel Robert B. Fiske Jr. is investigat­ing. 
After Gonzalez's statement, however, Foley appeared to move closer to endorsing future hearings. 
He said that while Gonzalez's 
· comments will not affect "the ultimate decision," he added, "We will explore with our col­leagues on the Republican side conditions on which some hear­ings might take place." He said the bipartisan leadership will meet Tuesday. 
Gonzalez said in a statement, "I would suggest that House hearings be held in a forum of broad reach -possibly a select committee -that can explore all the charges that have been brought, from accusations of obstruction even to the most absurd conspiracy charges." 
Gonzalez canceled a Banking Committee hearing scheduled for Thursday to review opera­tions of the Resolution Trust Corp., the savings and loan cleanup agency. 
The ranking Republican on the panel, Rep. Jim Leach, has been conducting his own probe of Whitewater and planned to turned the hearing into an inquiry on the subject. 
Leach criticized the postpone­ment, saying, "Full public dis­closure is the only way that this administration can put this issue behind them." 
He added, "The majority's action in avoiding statutorily 
T-wo essential ingredients for a perfect date: 
A date and this. 

It's everywhere you '\.vant to be:· 
<1:l Visa U.S.A. Inc. 1994 

mandated RTC hearings raises the question of whether the majority party has the spine to conduct credible oversight of an administration of the same political party." 
Leach told reporters that he may give a floor speech this week to release "some new information." He added, "The minority has in its hands mate­rial that is somewhat embar­rassing to the president. It's not devastating." 
Leach said Gonzalez' sugges­tion for broader Whitewater hearings is "worthy of consid­eration," but "a lot will depend on the commitments that are made" by Democrats. 
Gonzalez wrote to Foley that the Republicans have been making accusations against President Clinton and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, using "an array of half-truths, old rumors, half-baked conspiracy theories and outright lies. 

page6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 22, 1994 
Missiles to be sent Guns flow from U.S. to Japan 
By CHARLES HANLEY 



to S. Korea in warning 
Associated Press 

By PAUL SHIN 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea 

The progress gained in resolving the North Korean nuclear dispute crumbled Monday amid threats, canceled talks and revived plans for war games and the deployment of 
U.S. missiles in South Korea. 
North Korea issued a strong warning that it would follow through on its threat last year to pull out of an international nuclear controls treaty. Hours later, South Korea announced joint military exercises with the United States will be held this year, after all. 
The games had been can­celed in an attempt to coax the isolated, hard-line Communist North into cooperating with inspections to determine if it is building nuclear weapons. The North denies the charges. 
Monday, the International Atomic Energy Agency referred the issue of the North's intransigence on weapons inspections to the U.N. Security Council, which could impose sanctions on North Korea. 
North Korea refused IAEA inspectors access to a critical laboratory this month, begin­ning a series of increasingly defiant steps against the inter­national community. 
Sanctions could make the xenophobic North feel in­creasingly beleaguered and worsen its already struggling economy. 
The United States stopped short Monday of an immediate push for sanctions against North K.orea -fearing a Chinese veto -and instead began a drive for an appeal to 
TOKYO
the North to cooperate. 

Japanese may not like Detroit 
U.S. Ambassador Madeleine 
wheels or California rice, but
Albright told reporters the 
one American import has found
United States had drafted a res­
a niche among a choosy -and
olution calling on North Korea 
criminal-minority.
to allow the inspections. 

Whether they're Colt, Ruger
Taking a firm tone, President 
or Smith & Wesson, pistols
Clinton sent a letter of support 
smuggled in from the United
to South Korean Presid~nt Kim 
States are No. 1 among
Young-sam, saying Washington 
"yakuza" organized crime
would consider any North 
groups in this land where civil­
Korean invasion of South Korea 
ian handgun possession is ille­
to be an invasion of the United 
gal.

States, according to Kim's 
A simple profit motive can
spokesman, Choo Don-shik. 

drive the smugglers. A Smith & Wesson .38-caliber revolver bought for $275 in the United States can be sold on the Japanese black market for $4,800, U.S. Customs investiga­tors say. 
Last year, Japanese police seized 469 firearms that were brought in from the United States. 
"It's impossible to stop the flow as long as the guns are easily available in other coun­tries," said Shigeru Kubota of the National Police Agency's firearms control office. 
Yakuza gunrunners concoct elaborate schemes to mine the rich vein of firepower available in America. 
In 1991, two smugglers from Osaka flew to Chicago and recruited a local man to accom­pany them to a gun shop, where he signed for the pur­chase of 212 handguns. Avoiding airport metal detec­tors, the Japanese then took a train to Los Angeles to ship the guns by sea to Japan, hidden among blue jeans. 
Federal agents spotted the big purchase in the dealer's paperwork and broke up the scheme. 

LAFAYETTE SouARE 
T 0 W N H 0~ E S 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are The Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet OurFriendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 ScHooL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 

232-8256 

------------~--~~-~--~------~---------------------~---­
ND students attend conference 
Tuesday, March 22, 1994 
BUSINESS FORUM 
Global village 
presents range 

of opportunities 
The world is rapidly becomingd....
...,....,....,....,....,....,.­a "global village" with advances both in global communications and global logistics and also in the development of global prod­ucts, services, and competition. In recent years, we have learned firsthand how the economies of the world are interdependent and that a . global economy is emerging. William Shannon 
In the emerging global vil­lage, consumer needs (not wants or desires) are global: the need to eat, to have shelter, to be healthy, to learn, etc. Firms are beginning to inves­tigate the opportunities for global products. More and more global brands are appearing in addition to well established names like Coca-Cola, Nestle, and American Express. 
Since World War II, trade barriers such as tariffs, duties, import quotas, restrictive technical stan­dards, discriminatory regulations and bureaucratic customs procedures have been reduced and/or elim­inated. GATT and other trade treaties between nations attempt to "level the playing field" so that trade is mutually beneficial. 
From the perspective of the United States, we know that 50 percent of the world's population is on the Asian side of the Pacific Ocean. A place like China has "great potential," according to a recent issue of the Asian Wall Street Journal, which added that "World Bank officials predict that China will be the world's third largest economy by the turn of the century and the largest by 2020." These predictions are partly a function of China's vast population but also reflect an economic growth rate that has aver­aged 8 percent per year since 1985. Except for Japan, the other Asian economies are also experi­encing significant growth. 






BUSINESS 
page 7 

By SUSAN McCABE 
Business Writer 

Two Notre Dame students made a big impact recently as the only two university students in attendance at the National Small Business Conference in Wa,shington DC. Both Gene Sheikh, founder of the Notre 
D a m e Entrepreneur Club, and Joanna Parsons, President of the club, were selected to at­tend the confer­ence which launched a 


major focus on Gene Sheikh current small business issues. 
At the conference, the US Small Business Administration (SBA) pr:e­sented its agenda for Small Business 1994. The first speaker at the con­ference was Richard Lesher, President of the United States Chamber of Commerce. Lesher dis­cussed the effect Clinton's health­care package would have on small businesses in America. The second speaker, William Marcil, Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce, spoke about the role of the Chamber in the small business environment. 
After the presentation of Blue Chip Enterprise Awards to top small businesses in the country by David Sams, Jr., President and CEO of Connecticut Mutual Life Co., Erskine Bowles, Administrator of the SBA and Clinton's number one advisor for the state of small businesses, addressed a nationally televised audience. 
Bowles presented President Clinton's four-point plan for the state of the SBA in 1995. The goals of this plan are to make the SBA more user-friendly, end the "credit crunch" faced by small businesses, eliminate the bias large businesses possess in relation to access to gov­ernmental agencies and offices, and to make the SBA more efficient. Bowles also commented on the need to combat bureaucracy in both the SBA and the federal government. 
Sheikh and Parsons had the opportunity to personally meet with Bowles during their stay. SpeCifically, they discussed the need for a relationship between Notre Dame and the SBA. "Mr. Bowles had a sincere interest in small busi­ness issues and programs at the uni­versity level. We discussed at length already-existing programs at the SBA that could directly benefit Notre Dame and the SBA itself," said Parsons. "Mr. Bowles was especially responsive as Notre Dame was the only university represented at the conference." 
Fed expected to boost short-term interest rates 
By JOHN McCLAIN messages received," said Gene Associated Press Sperling, a White House economics adviser. 
On the other side of the globe, the European WASHINGTON While some economists are look­
Union with 340 million in twelve member countries Four days after conferring with ing for a dramatic increase in the initiated a single market of free unrestricted trade President Clinton, Federal Reserve federal funds rate, as much as a by eliminating customs barriers between member Chairman Alan Greenspan convenes half-percentage point, others expectnations in the beginning of 1993. 
policymakers Tuesday for a meeting Greenspan to continue gradually to Manufacturing standards were also reviewed dur­at which economists believe they nudge rates up, perhaps another ing the effort to move towards a single European will vote to boost short-term interest quarter-percentage point. 
market. The International Standards Organization rates.
(ISO) established quality assurance registration pro­
"Everyone and their brother The funds rate is what banks 
cedures that are rapidly being adopted by forward believes they are going to tighten a charge each other for overnightthinking firms throughout the world as they attempt notch," said economist Bruce loans, and many analysts believe a to establish or maintain a competitive advantage. 
Steinberg of Merrill Lynch & Co. further increase would promptThese global developments are not restricted to The Federal Open Market banks to boost their prime lending abstract theorizing. The dialogue a returning Notre Committee voted at its last meeting rate. The prime rate, which affects Dame alum had with students at a recent Notre Feb. 4 to nudge the federal funds borrowing costs for businesses and 
Dame Council for International Business 
rate up to 3.25 percent from 3 per­consumers, now is 6 percent. 
Development (NDCIBD) round table meeting pointed cent, the first increase in five years, Although most economists foresee out that approximately fifty percent of all of the peo­in what observers saw as a move to another increase, there is less ple Proctor & Gamble (his company) employs are unwind any inflationary spiral agreement on when it will occur. 
outside the U.S. 
before it began. "I think the Fed's got to act imme­
Likewise, a McDonald's senior vice president, also But instead of reassuring the diately," said Elliott Platt, an econo­an alumnus, noted in his discussion with NDCIBD 
financial markets of its vigilance mist with Donaldson, Lufkin & 
students that more than forty percent of McDonald's against inflation, the Fed move has Jenrette Securities Corp. in New income now comes from outside the U.S. and that sent long-term interest rates soaring York. "It's got to appear that it's more than two-thirds of the planned McDonald's and made investors skittish about acting in a preemptive fashion." 
restaurants will be built outside the U.S. 
the future. "They might wait for the em­
As the global village comes closer to reality, Notre ployment a week from
Fixed-rate, 30-year mortgages, report
Dame/Saint Mary's students preparing for reward­which track trends in the bond mar­Friday," suggested David Wyss, an ing professional careers should seek opportunities ket, jumped to 7. 7 6 percent last economist with DRI-McGraw-Hill, a to learn and explore cross-cultural differences. In week, highest in more than a year. Lexington, Mass., economic fore­many cultures personal relationships and a sense o Before the Fed moved to tighten casting firm. "But it's also possiblecommitment are far more important than a written credit, mortgages were below 7 per­they'll do it later this week." 
contract. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, enriched cent.
with faculty and students from many nations, pro­Markets grew even more anxious There also was disagreement over vide an excellent environment to explore and bene­
Friday after learning that Greenspan whether the Fed also will raise the fit from understanding our cross cultural diversity, had canceled at the last minute an discount rate, which it chargesthe essence of the global village. 
appearance in Houston to meet with banks and other financial institu­the president arid his top economic tions for short-term loans. The dis­
William Shannon is the International Business count rate, which has been 3 per­
advisers at the White House. 
Curriculum Coordinator and Professor of Business 
cent since September 1992, has not 
Administration and Economics at Saint Mary's 
The meeting, because it occurred been raised since February 1989,
College. 
so close to the next meeting of the when it reached 7 percent. open market committee, aroused Still, analysts say any further
MARKET ROUNDUP 
suspicions that Clinton had sum­increase in the federal funds rate is 

moned Greenspan to dissuade him unlikely to be the last. "History sug­fro!Jl raising rates further. Clinton gests that real short-term rates are contends there are few signs of more likely to have to rise than fall inflation and that further tightening from here," Greenspan told is not needed. Congress last month. 
But administration officials denied Many analysts believe the federal any arm-twisting was involved and funds rate could rise to 4 percent by described the meeting as a routine year's end as the Fed wrestles with session to discuss the economy. the threat of higher prices driven by 
12/1/93 1/1/94 2/1/94 3/1/94 4/1/94 "There were no messages given, no a growing economy. 
In general, the students gained much insight into the state of the SBA in America, which they brought back to Notre Dame and the Michiana Congressional District. Among other things, Sheikh and Parsons will begin to implement a relationship between the SBA and the Notre Dame community. "This is a major breakthrough for Notre Dame," said Sheikh. "We're begin­ning to make NO students more aware of the vital role of en­trepreneurship and small business in today's economy. This will put Notre Dame at a competitive advan­tage in that students will now be aware of the issues facing the small business through direct interaction with the SBA and SBA-sponsored programs." 
William Shannon, professor of Business Administration at Saint Mary's College, was instrumental in sponsoring the students' attendance at the conference. Shannon ar­ranged personal meetings for Sheikh and Parsons with top SBA officials including Monika Harrison, Associate Administrator for Business Initiatives, Education, and Training for the SBA. 
Funds generated by the Club Coordination Council enabled the students to attend the conference which was held February 28, 1994 in the Hall of Flags, US Chamber Building, Washington DC. 




VIEWPOINT 
Page 8 Tuesday, March 22, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Bwiness Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorg~ Viewpoint Editor ........................ Su:unne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the· students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent dte opinion of the majority of the Editor~in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
CHRISTOPHER KRATOVIL WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Clinton presidency: Character vs. governing ability 
If it accomplishes absolutely tortured by these self same nothing else, the Bill Clinton Soviets) and, most recently, of presidency will have left at shady and possibly illegal fi­least one enduring positive nanciaVtax transactions in the legacy for the American politi­"Whitewater" affair. cal system; the dispelling of the Amazingly, none of these notion that individual character scandals had any long term ef­-or lack there of -is irrele­fect on Clinton's political suc­vant to one's ability to govern. cess, even when they were 
In the wake of the rapid and largely substantiated as in the increasingly visible disintegra­case of the marijuana and illicit tion of the political viability of affairs charges. In light of this, the Clinton administration it perhaps the moniker of the will again be the common and "Teflon President" once at­accepted practice to examine tributed to Ronald Reagan is with a critical eye the personal better applied to Clinton. background and morality of During the campaign, Clinton candidates for high office, and his staff led by James rather than simply dismissing Carville and George such investigations as "hatchet Stephanopolus did a simply jobs" or an intrusion into the masterful job of minimizing the "bubble of privacy" accorded to damage done by this succession to the American people." misplaced journalistic ambition. specialists and found a story ca­candidates. of scandals. By the time the general elec­The Clinton administration is pable of seriously impairing his 
During the 1992 presidential Spin control tactics employed tion itself rolled around most of besieged on all sides; every day ability to govern. With the reve­campaign the American public during the campaign included; the available negative informa­seemingly brings new revela­lation of Whitewater, all of had ample warning as to the flooding the media with infor­tion on Clinton was yesterday's tions in the ever growing Clinton's policy initiatives, like existence of the undercurrent mation in the hopes of creating news and not nearly as Whitewater affair, strange ru­Nixon's before him, have been of amorality now seen to per­a cloud of public confusion, tak­interesting as the steady stream mors are being whispered with transformed from pragmatic meate the Clinton White House. ing the proverbial "high road" of lunacy pouring forth from regard to the suicide of White reality into so much political A virtual myriad of scandals and sticking to the perceived the off again/on again H. Ross House Deputy Council Vince theory. confronted then-Governor issues (something along the Perot campaign. And so riding Foster and another Arkansas One need not accept the idea Clinton's nomination and gen­lines of "Bill Clinton is not the a wave of public disillusionment state trooper orchestrated that it is the morality of our eral election campaigns. No issue here, the failing American and dissatisfaction Bill Clinton "bimbo eruption" could issue leaders that helps to define the doubt at least some of the economy is") and the now infa­was elected the 44th President forth from Little Rock at any morality of our government and charges brought for against mous attempts at "coming of the United States. time. The young president is our society in general to see the candidate Clinton were sala­clean" by employing a policy of Unfortunately for Clinton, the showing the obvious effects of need to elect righteous persons. cious in nature, but given the partial truth. sort of "war room" campaign stress, allegedly getting less The modern reality of number and variety of these we This latter tactic is exempli­tactics that kept accusation than four hours sleep a night. Washington has transformed must conclude that a pattern of fied in the dubious admissions bearing critics at bay while he All of Clfnton's well meaning, this from an abstract issue into either utter irresponsibility, that yes, Clinton smoked pot was a mere candidate have if ill-advised, policy initiatives a practical one; a president lack of self control, extremely but did not inhale (!) and that been unable to defend his pres­from health care to welfare re­with significant "skeletons in poor judgment or a general dis­yes, Bill slept around but this idency. Evidently, the form have taken a back seat to the closet" will be rendered regard for morals characterized was all in the past and Hillary, President's various spin doctors political crisis management. incapable of governing, regard­Bill Clinton's early adult life. as stated to Mike Wallace in a did not comprehend that the The vast majority of Clinton's less of the quality of his ideas. It 
Recall that at various points 60 Minutes interview, has since sort of short-term methods they political capital is being applied is unfortunate that this seems Clinton has been charged with forgiven him. In essence, this perfected would not dissuade a to self-defense rather than ex­likely to be the primary legacy conducting numerous and pro­clever politicking allowed story starved Washington press pended in policy creation and of the an entire presidential longed extramarital affairs. vio­Clinton to survive from primary corps from seeking blood. implementation. It seems that administration. lating narcotics possession and to primary while seeking the Every White House reporter Bill Clinton's long standing pat­Christopher Kratovil is a usage laws, visiting the Soviet nomination; winning a primary seemingly desires to become tern of amorality may have fi­freshman government major Union at the height of the allowed his campaign to suc­the new Bob Woodward and nally caught up with him. and a resident of Flanner Hall. Vietnam War (even as cessfully dismiss a nascent even George Stephanopolus and Hence, the fundamental prob­He comes to Notre Dame from American POWs were being scandal as "clearly unimportant company can not counter such lem with electing a president Dallas. Texas. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


HI, GUYS.' MR. 8UTT5H£31<&, COOUNG MY HIZ:/.5 INGUCC,I GUtOf B&FOR/5 A BIG ANTI­
5MOKJNe 6/U. H6ARJN6.' 
/ 
f!NAUY, 7H& F/JA 5AY5 IT'S 7HINI<ING OfR&6ULATING M/3 A? A P/l.U6 / IM T&UING YOU, 7H&IAJHOL£ IAIORUJ'G ON MYCA?f3l "'­
YOU'!J THINK. I ~OOI!;IIllllllr. 
IAJA'3 A MASS 
MURP/J/l.&R! 

IA//iU, OI<A>: 
50IAM,8UT I AUf/A}S 
I1JOI< MYl3fST.' 
"' 
IIIntuition: that strange 
instinct that tells a woman she is right, whether she is or not." 
-Methodist Recorder 


ACCE,NT
Tuesday, March 22, 1994 page 9 
Conference arrives at Notre Dame with 
By ANGElA CORNYN Auditorium at 7.30 p.m. Accent Writer Finkelstem, Heller, and Palmer each read excerpts from their This week affords an exciting own poetry. This was enough opportunity for those who enjoy to whet the appetite for the poetry and would like the interesting events to follow. For chance to meet, listen, and example, on Tuesday, March learn from the experts. Several 22nd, Feld, who is also a novel­leading poets from around the ist, will join Finkelstein, Heller, 
U.S. will read selections from and Palmer to conduct an infor­their own wor-k and discuss mal writing workshop in the contemporary American poetry Hesburgh Library Lounge at as part of a conference to be­noon. held at the University of Notre Dame from March 20 through The conference proper will March 22. All conference consist of talks by the partie­
pants and discussions on "the intersection of the lyrical and

'The talks should be 
the philosophical in American
something quite 

poetry," according to Stephen special, since the speak­A. Fredman, professor of English at Notre Dame.
ers have been working 
Professor Fredinan continues, on them for the past "the talks should be something 
quite special, since the speak­

year.' 
ers have been working on them 
for the past year." Fredman Stephen Fredman also indicated that the papers 
presented at the conference will 
be published in a special issue 

events are free and open to the of SAGETRIEB, a journal public. devoted to modern American poetry. 
In attendance at the confer­ence will-be the following well­The talks are held in Room known and much read U.S. po­136 of DeBartolo Hall. On ets: Ross Feld, Norman Monday, March 21st, Heller the comments of all the partici­tied "Restless Messengers." part of the Henkels VisitingFinkelstein, Michael Heller, and delivered a paper on George pants at 8 p.m. From New York University, Scholars Series in the College of Michael Palmer. All of these po­Oppen and Wallance Stevens. 
Each of the participants has Heller's latest volume of poetry Arts and Letters, which is madeets and scholars are recognized This was followed by a discus­
published several scholarly is "In the Builded Place." possible by and endowment
as specialists in the field of 20th sion, led by Finkelstein on the works as well as collections of Finally, Palmer, from San from Paul M. and Barbaracentury American poetry. work of William Bronk and his own writings. Feld, who Francisco, also had a new vol­Henkels.
Robert Duncan. The conference hails from Cincinnati, recently ume of poetry published recent­The conference, with the in­continues today with an explo­published a novel entitled, ly, entitled "Sun." This conference promisestriguing title, "Intersections of ration by Feld of the connec­"Shapes Mistaken." Finkelstein, The conference is co-spon­something for all those who

the Lyrical and the tions between George Oppen 
who is on the faculty at Xavier sored by Notre Dame's enjoy poetry and would like to
Philosophical" opened on and Robert Duncan at 4:15p.m. 
University, has a new poetry Department of English and learn more. It is an event notSunday, March 20, with a read­The conference will close with collection on the market enti-Program of Liberal Studies. It is to be missed. 
ing in the Hesburgh Library Palmer delivering a response to 
Poets break the boundary 
By GRANT JENKINS Special to The Observer 
What do 'philosophy and poet­ry share, if anything? And more importantly. what does this question have to do with "real life"? 
On Monday, March 21 in his lecture entitled, "Oppen and Stevens: Reflections on the Lyrical and Philosophical," Michael Heller, poet and pro­fessor, attempted to answer these questions by redefining the traditionally different pro­jects of poetry and philosophy during the Henkel's Conference on American Poetry being held this week. 
Heller complicates the 
ancient battle, begun by Plato incorporates spaces or silences everything." 
in the "Republic," between the which give it the flavor of poet­Sincerity, or the measure of 
two disciplines and argued that ry. In fact, Oppen and language's affiliation to the they have become more compli­Wittgenstein are further con­world, inaugurates the possibil­mentary in recent philosophy nected by the fact that both of ity that poetry may be seen as and poetry. Heller spoke them gave up their scholarly "philosophical" And, in what 
specifically about the German endeavors to pursuit menial Heller terms as a sort of pro­philosopher. Ludwig jobs related to dispossessed ductive failure, the return to Wittgenstein, and his relation to peoples -Oppen worked as a the body in Wittgenstein's work two 20th Century American farm labor organizer and marks the "tears" in philoso­poets. George Oppen and Wittgenstein was an orderly in phy's claim to truth. Sincerity,Wallace Stevens. Ultimately, a hospital. in other words breaks the 
Wittgenstein is a philosopher boundary. with poetic leanings while These "real life" experiences, Philosophy is unable, accord­Stephens and Oppen are poets Heller argues, help them to ing to Heller, to exhaust the who deal with philosophical connect their language to the totality of meaning. In this fail­problems. world. The site of this connec­ure is a poetic silence. On the 
Oppen and Stevens, Heller tion is often the human body. other hand, poetry is never able pointed out, constantly return "The body in Oppen's poetry," to totally escape reference to in their poetry to the philosoph­Heller said, "serves as witness the "real," which is the realm of ical concern of the "real," while to the movement of sincerity philosophy. The one must Wittgenstein's philosophy often which threatens to disclose always return to the other. 



r---~~ 
r page 10 
I I Ailing
I 

Indiana on

I 

a roll 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Indiana's aching, ailing Hoosiers will be waving a Red Cross flag down to Miami for more NCAA battle action this week. So far, it has been Ohio Uni­versity and Temple that have been placed on the tournament terminal list by the Hoosiers. Indiana (21-8} joined Purdue in the round of 16 Sunday by 3­pointing Temple's match-up zone to death for a 67-58 vic­tory. But with victory came yet an­other casualty -freshman guard Sherron Wilkerson. He suffered a spiral tibia fracture in his left leg when he planted it to jump for a possible rebound on a fast break. He underwent 2 1/2 hours of surgery in Indianapolis on Monday. Doctors inserted a rod and several screws to stabilize the fracture. Defending champion and No. 1 North Carolina was expected to be Indiana's opponent Friday night in Miami, but Boston College pulled a stunning 75-72 
· upset and will meet the Hoosiers instead. Tar Heel senior Eric Montross, who graduated from Lawrence North High School, is banking on Indiana. "There's so many guys on the Indiana team that I know," he said. "I think they have a lot of potential and I hope they really 
"' go after it. "And I hope they do a lot of great things, because Damon (Bailey} deserves a lot, Todd Leary deserves a lot. You go on down the line, a lot of them I 


Classifieds 
LOST -in SDH Green LL Bean backpack & running shoes. Reward. Call Mary 4-2240. 
Found -Watch outside SDH Tues. am call4-3710 to identify 
Found-Lady's watch in Nieuwland on Wed. Ca/1631-6387to identify 
We know the sound of two hands clapping, but what is the sound of one hand clapping? My right hand still lacks a black leather ladies' glove! Call Beth x 4994. 
WANTED 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­0219 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
Work in the Wild! Tour guide, dude ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter 
+ volunteer and government posi­lions available at national parks. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over 25,000 openings! Apply now for best pos~ions. For more info call: 1­206-545-4804 ext. N5584 
-~"': _. _: 

The Observer· SPORTS March 22,1994 
1994 NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAl\1PIONSHIP 



·.}/' 
1st Round 2nd Round Regional& Semifinals Regionals 2nd Round 1st Round 

Charlotte, N.C. 

.............................,.... ............J
April2 

CHAMPION 
(1)~r,t<(l':J~S..~ .. 
(16) N.C. A& T79 

-··························-··-···········-··············_j
.........J?.:1.~.... (1) Arkansas 
@L!!!!_nois 77 
.......................................~. (~l.~~"lJ4!1?."':~~ .J Oklahoma City, Okla. 
{5} UCLA 102 March 18 & 20 .. 
@_·~~;~·~·~;··~~~]...U?l.TtJ.!~.~..!:I~ .........) 
. (!~)!~1~~.

(1LOkla. St. 65 · ...... (1~)~: ~~~x:§.t: ~~ J...(~).Q~I<l.:~!:..~~.. 
Dallaa 


( ) seed Bold numbers-score 

played with and I hope they do well." Montross led North Carolina with 16 points and seven re­bounds in his final college game. Indiana destroyed coach John Chaney's zone with 10-of-20 shooting from 3-point range and a bothersome man-to-man defense on the perimeter against Temple's trio of shoot-
MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES. Arthur Victor Painting, Inc. is
'LOST & FOUND' searching for ambitious students to 
fill summer management positions LOST: GOLD RING W/ GREAT throughout Indiana including South SENTIMENTAL VALUE Bend. Complete training and field REWARD OFFERED IF FOUND support. High income potential. 1­

... 
PLEASE CALL X4298 800-775-47 45. 
SUBWAY is NOW HIRING If you are an enthusiastic, depend­able self starter, we would like to talk to you. Flexible hours and friendly atmosphere. Call Jacki or Penny at 277-7744 for an interview. 

ers -Eddie Jones, Aaron McKie and Rick Brunson. Brian Evans played great of­fensively and defensively. After drilling shot after shot from NBA 3-point range in warm­ups, he started the game by hit­ting his first three from outside the arc to get the Hoosiers rolling. "We were able to get a feel for playing well right away," Indi­
(2) Duke 

................................ 
ana coach Bob Knight said. Evans paced the Hoosiers with 18 points and matched Alan Henderson's 11 rebounds. He even had five assists and a steal. Evans is one of the walking wounded. Twice this season he had to sit down because of a dislocated right shoulder and a third time he shoved it back in place and kept playing. 
teach athletics, tennis, ropes cours-FOR SALE -INDY 500 TICKETS. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -es, rock climbing, backpacking, GREAT 3RD +4TH TURN Earn up to $2000+/month working swimming, fishing, sailing, waterski-ACTION. CALL on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com-ing, performing arts and many 272-7233'. panies. World travel. Summer & more. Age 20+. Contact Camp Full-Time employment available. No Wekeela's winter office at 1-800-FOR SALE-Mac Powerbook 100 experience necessary. For more 959-3177. with 4/40memory, contains Word information call 1-206-634-0468 5.0 and misc. others $800/best offer ext. C6675 call Matt x3444 
FOR RENT 

ZENITH 286 Desktop LP, 20/40 MB ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, fixed disks, 3.5" floppy, mouse, EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF modem, 14" VGA color monitor, $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN-CAMPUS. 272-0615 programs+ EPSON L-1000 Action NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. Printer. $375.00 includes desk, MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEG-BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES-shelves. and p-stand. ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL ND/SMC EVENTS CALL 273-1984 w/ offerl OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN-(219)291-7153 TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 NOT FOR SALE ­extA29. OAKHILL CONDOI Spacious liv­
ing/dining area, 1 BR w/ lg. loft, 2 FREE UPRIGHT PIANO WITH Female roomate to live off-campus Bth, fireplace, WID, vaulted ceiling, BENCH. YOU HAUL. 277-4970. (anywhere) next year. garage, balcony. 12 mo. lease, 2 Please call Carolyn 284-4356 person max. Walking distance to Macintosh Classic, lmagewriter 
campus. $650/mo. Call Caroline or printer, system 7 and tons of soft-Bill at (317)2.g7-8485 ware: Word, Page, Excel... 
SUMMER LIFE GUARD Turtle Creek Townhome for school $500 or best offer @273-3920 We need 1 or 2 fully-certified life-year of 1994-95 is available. Call guards for our miniature wave pool Reg at x1480 for information. 2 BIKES $50. EA. & FAX. 272-6306 in Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr. Complete season hours. Season HAVE 2 BDR APT-LOOKING 5/25/94-Labor day, 1994. FOR FML ROOMMATE FOR 1ST IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME Weekends only after school starts. SEM ONLY '94 AT CASTLE PT. NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS Call Jim Wyllie 277-1335. CALL 284-4045 OR x4394 REALTY 272-6306,232-1466 
''I,. • ,.. ., ~ • ~ ,. .. • ot '" -. ..-'" " • • • • • <0 .. ~ • -,. " a • •.• A ~ ,.­~-~-~ ...... •Jo~L..,;.,f.~ot.' If .. •'-'·~""7 ..... ft ... :' • -... ~" •. ­

EAST 
(1) North Carolina 7l(lJf':lort~9arolill<l! 1 <~>~ ~~S.~~.~~~~n: J~~~~·~~~~ ...~~~~........................... .................(~;1~~~~~;-·: 
, (9) Boston Coli. 75 { ·~ ~ ~~ ~~~~ ................... ........~~!~~=~~~~:··· ............<~>.~~t;:;~;:.~..~ 
(5) Indiana 67 ...... ) ~ (12) Ohio 72

(5) Indiana (4) Te111p1e 61 
(4) Temple 58 (13) Drexe.l39 
Miami March 25 & 27 
........... j~) ~~~r(!Sk;lBO
P 1}1'EI':l':l~~ i 

\ J11JP£1nn 90
National 
(3) Florida

Championship 
Charlotte, N.C. April4 
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME 

(9) Alabama 73 · J~)~rovi~ell9.e..!~ 
...i· (9) Alabama 76 
Lexington, Ky. 


Knoxville, Tenn. March 24 & 26 (6) Marquette 81 . .<~)~':l~g~e.~~!~ ( 
(11) SW La. 59 
(~J...~~r~~e.~e. ~ 
(3) Ken lucky 83 
,(~)~~~ll~':IC:'o/~~ nmm(1,~)!~1lll:..?~:.!~u (
St. Petersburg, Fla. March 1B& 20 (7) Michigan St. B4 
(l~)~~~~ll~~ll?a. ....................!~).[:juke. ~~ 
(15) Texas So. 70 

AP 

"I don't feel I'm a one-armed player," Evans said. "That hap­pened three months ago." Knight said he told his team before the game that they would have to shoot several 3­pointers, because penetration against Temple was difficult. The Hoosiers also got probably as many fast breaks as they have against any team this sea­son. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
CARPENTERS HELPER: Seasonal position with large apartment com­munity. Basic knowledge of wood­working. Will train the right person. Apply in person M-F, 9-5 to Hickory Village Apartments, 4312 Hickory, north of Edison. 
REMODELED 1 BR HOME $400 MO. DEPOSIT REQUIRED CALL 
TICKETS
256-9109 AFTER 5:00PM GRAD­UATE STUDENT PREFERRED. 
FOR SALE: 1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES. ONE PLANE TICKET TO/FROM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE DANSAS CITY OVER EASTER 
NOW & FALL. STARTING AT  BREAK FOR $80. CALL NICKY IF  
Billy Joel tix anywhere in Midwest­ $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER­ INTERESTED AT 4-1308.  
will pay $75per Stevex2009  TIES.272-6306  

I f you drive to the Boston area 
FOR SALE PERSONAL
alone on Easter break, they will 
I I 

beat you up. Please take me with you. Call Jim x3521. 1984 BUICK ELECTRA LTD. 
LIGHT BLUE 4-DOOR CO-ED SUMMER CAMP IN MAINE CALL X3001 WI OFFER seeks staff from 6-17 to 8-21 to WAY TO GO, CLAY COLONIALS! TAKE STATE! 
Math tutoring available .... Senior honors math major will tutor any 100 or 200-level math courses, possibly higher levels as well. Times and rates negotiable. Call Jeff@ 277-5612 
ATTENTION SOPHO­MORES!!!!I!I!III 
Sophomore Sibs t-shirts will be available on March 23 from 4-5:30 in 215 LaFortune. 
Cost is $5. If you would like one, participant or not, please stop by to purchase one. While supplies last. 
ATTENTION SOPHO­MORES!IIIIIIIIII 
HEY YOU ... 
1. 
You were at 1647 S. Turtle Creek on Friday night. 

2. 
You took my 50mm camera WITHOUT permission. 

3. 
Return it by Easter break 'cause someone saw you take it and we'll come gel you. 

4. 
Returning it would be easier than coming and getting you. 


-Ad rock, Will you go to my fonmal??? Spunky 
########### ••••••• ######### 
BUZZER BEATER! Last shol to sign-up for BOOKSTORE B-BALL XXIII This WED. 4-7pm in the Huddle. 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­786-8373 
In a hurry ... don't worry. FAX IT! 
at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center NEW LOWER PRICESI 

Hesburgh Program in Public Service welcomes 
CHARLES LEWIS Director, Center for Public Integrity "Washington's Mercenary Culture" 
4:15p.m. Wed., March 23 207 DeBartolo 
Why, Katie and Anne! I didn't realize that J had such photographic friends! 
Hey Belle, Didja enjoy the movie on Friday? What did you see... the credits? 
How's the sleep by lhe sink? Suz! 
Hey you! With the long hair and the pony taill My name is Nora... and I want a date with you!! Call me... soon! 
Hey, guys,after we finish these Roman cokes do ya'll want to go to La Boons? 
What? Jitani? YEAH GUBJ'SI 


March 22, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Ceponis, Strottman, and Ascencio lead Irish in Michigan 
~&omiDS-uNUMiPRES!fEENTSDPi«~n<OOn Youth key to 
By G.R. NELSON Sports Wrirer 
The Notre Dame men's vol­leyball team defeated Central Michigan University 6-15, 15-8, 15-13, and 15-8 last Saturday and then disposed of Western Michigan University 15-13, 15­6, 8-15, and 15-8. 
According to head coach Jennifer Slosar, it was an excel­lent weekend for the 11-2 Irish squad. "We played well," she said. 
And that they did. 
In the first match, the Irish started out poorly. 
"We were still stuck in the van," said captain Brian Ceponis, citing the team's 3 1/2 hour trip. 
It was in the second game where the Irish and Ceponis took over. 
"The sets were there," he said, "and it was easy to find an opening from there." 

Ceponis had a team high 21 kills, Matt Strottman added 12, Miguel Ascencio continued his strong play with nine, and Tom Kovats chipped in with seven of his own. 
Central Michigan was really no match for the Irish once Notre Dame began to play its game. However, Western Michigan, despite the lopsided score, proved to be a tougher opponent. 
"They had some big guns," commented Ceponis, "And we 

had to focus on stopping them." 
They certainly did. 
Ceponis once again led the way with 15 kills, followed by Strottman with 12, Ascencio with 10, and Kovats with five. 
Even with all of this, it was an unexpected trick tip in the last game by setter Chris Fry that sealed the match. 
The team had a very strong weekend and looks to continue its success tonight when it faces off at Michigan State. 
The Irish have not defeated the Spartans in four years, but did come within a point earlier this season. They will need to run a balanced offense, force sideouts early in the match, and take advantage of all Spartan mistakes. 
"If we get them down," said Ceponis, "We need to put them away." 
Hopefully, they will. 

SOUTH BEND RECORD&CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, MARCH 2ifH 
10:00 AM-5:00PM ADMISSION $3.00 AT: THE HOUDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 
515DIXIEWAYN. 
US 31 -33 NORm 
1.00 OFF ADMISSION WID1 DUS AD 
BUY. SELL.TRADE COLLECTIBLES FROM THE 
LP's -CD's • 45's -12 inch singk.r • imporn posters • magazine3 • boob · c011cert photos -videos r-shirt.s -cassettes -pins -poJcltes tutd muc1t more!!! 
FORDEAU!:R 
--•-------....;~~~~~---_. 
Diversified Portfolios 

What is a global investment bank's single most valuable asset? At CS First Boston, it is clearly our employees. 
And they are the reason we are a leading innovator in the investment banking community. Our global team of profes­sionals combines the unique strengths of each employee 
to consistently and successfully develop innovative 
products and services. 
For more than 60 years -in areas includ­ing Investment Banking, Public Finance, Sales and Trading, and Research -the ideas of our employees have helped shape the face of global finance. 
As you consider your first career move, consider CS First Boston, where opportunities for success are as diverse as your interests. 
& CS FIRST BosToN 
-

success for St. Mary's teams 
By PATTI CARSON Sports Writer 
The 5-1 Saint Mary's varsity tennis team takes on Manch­ester College today, and con­centration is the key. 
"Though we've never played Manchester before, I feel good going into this match," said number three singles player Andrea Ayres. 
According to Ayres, the 

squad's freshman class is very strong this season. She noted that they have worked their way up from the bottom of the ladder and said that one of the team's key players is Mary Cosgove, who is the Belles' number one singles player. 
"We've worked hard to form a good, strong team this year and I think we've got a good chance against Manchester to­day," she said . 
Tight defense is the key to success in today's softball game, according to senior Saint Mary's varsity softball player Stacy Bogataj. The Belles bat­tle Wheaton with a fairly young team. 
"We have 3 seniors, 2 juniors, 6 sophomores, and 5 freshmen on the team this sea­son. Our group is fairly young, but it's very strong. Our record is currently 9-2," she said. 
In an effort to strengthen the team, the Belles have been working on hitting and strong defense during practice. 
Another key to a \jctory over Wheaton includes pitching. Maria Vogel, Laura Richter, and Lori Langenderfer, the team's main pitchers, are three of the greatest strengths of the team, according to Bogataj. 
Look for coverage of the upcoming 


'Blue-Gold 
. 


spnng football game 
in Observer Sports 
Ar:ll'lllnflllllldl(PSIJt. -1!:45 1:11 5:31 7:45111:111 C11ria1 Taa (pCII): 1:45 4:15 1:45 I :15 Greedy (pCIII : l:15 t45 7a 111111 Ullllbill Jlli (pCII): !:1114:18 7:•1 :18 ne CIIISII (pCII): 1:1111 t15 5:15 7:181:18 NUl C. 331/J (pCII): -1l:311 !:45 5:1117:151:45 


------------------~---------------------------,-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS March 22,1994 
Belles impres­sed by track performance 
By KIMBERLY BERO Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team competed in the premiere out­door track meet of its season Saturday when it traveled to Wabash, Indiana to participate in the Wabash Relays. 
Ten Division III teams com­peted in the meet. 
Although team scores were not kept, the Belles far ex­ceeded their expectations in several individual events. 
"The team had a lot of sur­prises," said freshman stalwart 
Paula Kivinen.  "We returned  
home  with  a  lot of happy  
faces."  

Meet standouts included Kivinen who placed frrst in the high jump, Katy Lalli who placed frrst in the shotput, and Joanne Weed who placed first in the discus. The 4X100 relay team also claimed frrst place. 
The Belles attribute their success to their team's diverse abilities. 
"We were competitive in ev­erything, from field events to sprints to distance events," said Kivinen. 
Despite their success this weekend, the Belles still have several areas which need im­provement. The team espe­cially wants to work on better­ing personal times in individual events. 
"We didn't quite get the times we dreamed of, but it's early in the season and we're opti­mistic," Kivinen said. 
The Belles also plan to con­centrate on baton hand-offs and field event techniques in their upcoming practice ses­sions. 
In light of this early success, the Belles are anticipating a fruitful season. 
"This gives our team a lot of · hope," said Kivinen. 
"If we can look this good in our first meet, we will be great by the end of the season.'' 



Kobata 
continued from page 16 
helping her to earn the tourna­ment's Most Valuable Hitter award. 
Other leading hitters includ­ed junior Andy Keys who had nine hits and seven RBI and senior co-captain Amy Rueter with seven hits. 
The Irish must quickly re­cover from the euphoria of this weekend's performance in or­der to face the Hoosiers. Indi­ana previously beat Oklahoma State, the second rated team in the country. OSU has beaten top-ranked UCLA and beat the Irish over spring break 3-0. 
"They are an aggressive team who run a lot and are great hit­ters," Miller says of Indiana. 
"This game will be an inter­esting challenge for us right now. No doubt, we will have to go out tough and play well." 
•
•
•
• 
Mental illness has warning signs, too. 
For a free booklet about mental illness. call : 
1-800-969-NMHA. 
Learn to see the warning signs. 
National Mental Health Association ~ 


Zurcher, Irish place seventh in Blue-Gray 
By PHIL IANGER Sports Writer 

The Rolling Stones seem to sum up the 14th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team's sea­son thus far with their classic 
"You can't always get what you want." 
The Irish were unsuc­cessful in their attempt to defend the 


prestigious Andy Zurcher Blue-Gray National Classic held last week­end in Alabama. They finished a humble seventh out of sixteen top-ranked teams. 
The tournament, which fea­tured ten of the top fifteen col­legiate tennis teams in the na­tion, proved to Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss that while the Irish are capable of beating the elite they seem to lack that missing ingredient necessary to consistently knock them off the mountain. 
"I have mixed emotions," Bayliss said. "I have to be ex­tremely happy because we are playing the top ten teams to 3-4 with an inexperienced Irish squad who lost five of their six 
.&.pp1ic:a::cl#ic:»Z1!S :£c:»:r... 
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 


•
•
•
•
• 


are now available in the Student Activities Office 

•
• 

Photography Editor Sports Editor
•
•
•
•

• Student Life Editor 
•
•
•
•

• Year in Review Editor 
• 

~::11:1«=»~ «=» &L=-:-«=» ]~:;a &Lid. ]l:;ac:»SE;;i-e:.::&.c:»Z:II.:!E5 
Deadline for Editor in Chief application is 4pm Friday, March 25. 
starters to graduation. 

"I feel that we just need one match to get over whatever wall separates us from the likes of Texas, Duke and the rest of the nation's elite," he added. "Still, a part of me, that com­petitor inside, can't help but think 'if only...'." 
The Irish began the tourna­ment with an impressive 6-1 win over Drake. It had seemed to be a 'routine day for Notre Dame until freshman phenom Ryan Simme, who at No. 32 is the highest ranked freshman in the world, took a terrible fall in his doubles match with senior Allan Lopez. Simme overcame the pain from a terrible cut of his right thumb, his playing hand, to help his partner win their No. 3 doubles match. 
"Ryan is continuing to show me, and the rest of the coach­ing staff, that he's everything that we had hoped he would be when he came to South Bend the No. 4 junior in the world," said Bayliss. 
Against No. 4 Duke, accord­ing to Bayliss, the Irish played "their best match of the year," but unfortunately it was not enough as the Blue Devils won 4-3. The match came down to the No. 1 singles match where fifth-year senior Andy Zurcher had his hands full with the country's second ranked player, Chris Tressley. 
Zurcher came back to win the second set 6-4 after he lost the frrst 3-6. It did not take Tress­ley long to get to 5-3 in the third set and have the opportu­nity to serve out the match. Zurcher, however, fought off three team match points and broke Tressley's serve to get the match back on serve at 4-5. 
Being the No. 2 player in the nation, Tressley aptly re­sponded to tire pressure of a possible Zurcher comeback by breaking Andy to win the third set 6-4. 
"It has been a long time," stated Bayliss, "since I have seen anyone courageously fight for every point like Andy." 
With the emotional loss against Duke, Notre Dame was left to face No. 8 Mississippi for fifth place. The Irish once again lost 4-3 and ended the tourna­ment in seventh place. The highlight of the Irish's wins was Zurcher's victory over 12th­ranked Jaa Kim Applekvist. 
00~[p[p)1 
&3 ~ ~lTOO ®~V 
~)j~~g 
stiII II G 0 0 FY11 at 21 
'"··Love, Robin and Jill 

Editor in Chief Seniors Editor Academics Editor Organizations Editor 
•
•
•
Copy Editor •
•
• 


March 22, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Spring 
continued from page 16 
arm feels fme," Holtz said. 
Besides quarterback, Holtz stressed the offensive line, the defensive secondary and the kicking game as areas of great concern. 
"A lot of younger players are going to get looks in those ar­eas," said Holtz. "We don't have the experienced players return­ing on the offensive line or in the secondary and people are going to have to step up." 
That the kicking game is again a concern for Notre Dame is a surprise to Holtz. 
"I never thought we would be talking again about the problem with the kicking game," he said. 
Freshman Brian Ford or Powlus were singled out by Holtz as candidates for the punting job but the kicking game is wide open with only Stefan Schroffner returning. 
Holtz was surprised by the coherency of his staff, consider­ing it has four new faces head­ed by defensive coordinator 
Happy 
21st 




Susan! 
Love, Paul, Troy, Bob, and K.T. 
Bob Davie and offensive head Dave Roberts. 
"I am surprised by how orga­nized we are at this point," said Holtz. The Irish coach indicated that there will be some slight changes in the offensive phi­losophy, but made it clear that the Irish would not sway from their traditional formula. 
"You're always more experi­mental in the spring, but that doesn't mean things will change in the fall," said Holtz. 
It will be a return to tradition for the defense. The 4-3 set implemented in 1993 will be replaced by the 3-4 which the Irish have used predominantly in the past. The switch is due to better personnel at linebacker and the success Davie has had with the 3-4 in the past. 

"I think the 3-4 is a little more flexible," said Holtz. "But that doesn't mean we are going to alter our lineup much." 
After today's practice the Irish will have Thursday off before practicing all weekend. 
Cornerback Shawn Wooden will not participate in spring drills as he recovers from a 
knee injury. Other players not ... participating include Jeff Riney, Huntley Bakich, Paul Failla and John Taliaferro. None of the four are expected to return to the team in the fall. 
Freshman offensive lineman Chris Kurpeikas has left the Irish with intentions to transfer to Michigan. 
"The only reason he gave for leaving is that he said 'Notre 

. Dame is not for everybody,'" Holtz said. "I wish him the best of luck. He is a fine football player a great young man." 
Epee 
continued from page 16 
out the eight seeds. Each of those eight seeds will fence three teams in a round-robin competition format. From there the teams will be re­seeded and put into a direct elimination bracket. 
As for yesterday, the men's sabre team finished fourth be­hind Yale, Penn State, and Pennsylvania, who the Irish lost to in the consolation match (5-0). Yale captured the cham­pionship with a 5-4 win over the Nittany Lions. Junior Beran Rose, this year's individ­ual sabre champion, and senior Kim Phillips each won two 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement and resume to Beth Regan by Wednesday March 23, 5:00pm. 
For additional information contact Beth at 631-4540. 

bouts to seal the victory. In the semi-finals, the Irish 


lost to the eventual champs
0 
c 
Yale 5-2, giving them a total of 
750 points for the sabre competition, while the Bulldogs received 1900 points for the championship. 
The individual competitions also concluded yesterday as Penn State sophomore Olga Kalinovskaya repeated as the women's individual foil cham­pion. Kalinovskaya defeated teammate Olga Chernyak, the 1992 national champion, for the second consecutive year, 15-11. Kalinovskaya advanced to the All-Olga final by downing Brandeis freshman Kristin Foellmer 15-5. 


The Irish's top fencer was sophomore Claudette De Bruin, who tied for 18th overall with Princeton's Adrienne Toy. Sophomore Mindi Kalogera ended up 22nd, while senior Corinne Dougherty came in 29th. 
• 
The Russells' silverware gotcaught in a forest fire. 

Wednesday, March 23, 1994 7.p.m. Library Auditorium 
Comments from fellow Notre Dame students who have seen David: 
·Absolutely an excellent presentation:._ 

"Inspirational and educational.· one of the best I've ever seen." 
"Excellent, bring him back.· "I laughed, I cried, I'd see it again and again. It was better than CATS! 
"Quite a coup to get someone 

Seriously--Awesome· this good to speak.· 
So did theRussells. 
10day, man: U1d man: ll<Oille arelivi~ closer U1d closer ., !he b.:its. Tha's why, today. batfires kill mon: than trees. Please be careful

·A presenter and presentation I will ·oavid was fabulous and entertaining 
Only you can pmoenr bat11,... 

remember forever.· with a clear and important message.· 
Sponsored by The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education and Students Against Driving Drunk 



page 14 

The Observer· SPORTS March 22, 1994 

Belles sweep weekend double-header, prepare for Wheaton 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON slower than we were used to, so The intensity on the field The biggest challenge for the The Belles take to the field Spons Writer it took us a little while to get Saturday matched the intensity 
Belles were the two key injuries again tonight as they travel to going," she explained. that the Belles displayed over that plagued them. Sophomore · Wheaton College for their first 
The Saint Mary's softball "Defensively, though, we had spring break, where they fin­pitcher Michelle Limb was regular season road trip. 
team continued its winning no problems." ished 7-3. 
unable to play because of a sore "We had a pretty good prac­ways this weekend by easily Sophomore shortstop Shan­"Team morale was great," arm, while senior catcher Jane tice yesterday,"said Patrick,defeating Concordia College in non Heise agreed with Patrick, Patrick said. "We've been up 
Murphy was resting a sprained "and we're looking to take two both games of a double-header also giving credit to the strong for every game." knee. Senior Sara Miller tonight."by the scores of 14-1 and 9-1, pitching of Maria Vogel, Laurie Heise also believes that the stepped up to fill Murphy's spot respectively. Langenderfer and Laura crowd was a contributing factor behind the plate. 
SPORTS BRIEF

Junior leftfielder Seanne Richter. to the win. Although Murphy was able to Patrick credits the team's "Our pitching was very strong "We had a good crowd on practice a little bit last night, it 

QT!' ~()okstorestrong defense for the win, not­and our defense played well to­Saturday that showed a lot of is unlikely that she will be able Baslc_etball needs 'more ing that offensively the Belles gether," she said. "We showed support," she explained. "I to play more than a couple of 
te~~U Last dayfor sign-ups:were off to a slow start. a lot of strength and maturity think that the team responded innings in the next couple of 
W!(«iii~~day, 4-7pltJ,Jn the
"Their pitchers were a bit on the field." well to this support." outings. 
,f!~(l<!l~~ ,J;.aF()~~e~ ,· 
,, 
Many Americans believe that thinner is better. 
People with eating disorders believe it so deeply that their weight and dieting success become the measure of their self-esteem. 
·­
Thinking that eating is the cause and result of m.any .of. their pr?~lems, th~y become trapped in a vicious cycle of repeated, ntuallst1c, and ng1d behavior focused on food. 
[}={] @\WI u@ [}={] @ ~ GQ) fiD f[(o®rru@ 
~o~[M) fiDmJ ~fiD~omJ~ ~@mJ©@[fmJ 
Presented by 
(Rio~tiD [Q)@[ru~®W 
Assistant Director University Counseling Center 
Tuesday, March 22, 1994, at 7 p.m. Foster Room (3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center) 
This week Is National Collegiate Health and Wellness Week, brought to you by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
:L CQ~c.,}-l \JJENt>,~fS 
_. --­
-
WEDNESDAY MARCH 23rd 7:30pm ROOM 155 DEBARTOLO HALL 

A NOSTALGIC COACH AND HIS CAMERA WANDER THROUGH THE MANY PERSONALITIES OF UTILE LEAGUE BASEBALL IN SOUTH BEND, AND FIND THE PARENTS MORE FASCINATING THAN THE PLAYERS. 


NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS ~, NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

•.
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OcCUPANCY 


~-.::'i " 

Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FOR ~ORE INFORMATION CALL 

232-8256 
--~---------------­
-~~­

Tuesday, March 22, 1994 The Observer • TODAY 
CALYIN AND HOBBES 
TODAY'S TWO-ACT PLAY 1\Nt> l..AC..I<IN(, THE f!'<E ~"'' 1<£ 0. \)oiZ.£0
IS BROUGHT TO YOU BY 
F011. A,., Orr-(Amf'IJ'S

TilE FOUR FOOD 
T!<tP I AfYI ForUED 

CT/NG GUILD. 
To Pv~tOIA~E Tt<E. 

-MR. DESMOND WILL BE 
NEC.£S5AI2.'1 PLAYING THE PART OF (1\Et>I~AT\DI'S A~ 1!1£ THE FLU-STRICKEN 
f\vt>1>LE .. · 

STUDENT. 
-MS. CARRIE WILL BE PLAYING THE PART OF THE BOURGEOIS STORE MANAGER. 
~ 




.CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 21 Customary 31 With 16-Across, 45 Great practice former Phillies 46 Overwhelms ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE
1 Spirogyra or 
manager with humor 

frog spit 22 Strengthens, 
34"Queen­48 Catch in a net 
with "up" 5 Impression 

Day" (old game so Pipe type 9Diamond 23Tugs show) 
52 Highest point in protector 25 "Babes in 35 Corporate abbr. Sicily .. 13 Burpee bit Toyland" star, 36 Have a hunch 55 Course for a 
14 Conclude, as 1960 37 Lefty artist newcomer to negotiations the U.S.: Abbr. 
28 Head of the 41 Shows one's 
humanity 57 Lament

16 See 31-Across costume department? sa Lefty actor 
17 Lefty celebrity 42Bud 62 French 101
relative 43-Fein
30 Leonard and 
word

20 Turkish title Charles 44 Voted 63 Copy of a sort 64 Noted rap artist &sGioomy 66 Overdecorated 67 Danson et al. 
24 Pontiac 40 In a despicable 
DOWN 

Silverdome way 1 Composers' org. team 45 Writer Quindlen 2 Three miles, 26 Camden Yards 
47 Blotto roughly team 
48 

3 Lefty President 27 Polaroid 49 Subs4 Foofaraw inventor 51 Bridge seats 5 Horus's mother 29 Lefty comedian 52 Horse that 6 Star in Cygnus 31 Lefty comedian made sense? 
7 Baa maid? 32 ECU issuer 53 One of the 8 Razor-billed 33 Lawyer in both Jackson 5 bird "Civil Wars" and 54 Tannish color 9 Kind of sax "L.A. Law" seHot
10 Publican's 36 Student's worry 59 Chaperoned girl 
offerings 37 Roman law 11 Ridicule 38 Before, to Byron 60 Actress Joanne 
persistently 39 Jutlander, e.g. 61 Paroxysm 12 Is worthwhile 15 Lefty actress 
Get answers to any three clues 
18 Five-year 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
periods 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
19 Refusals 
page 15 
OF INTEREST 


JASON KELLY'S PICK 






•

The Obse~ve~ IS 


News  Spods  AcceJI\t  P~odl.t\ctioJI\  Photo9~aphy  
Sa~ah Do~aJI\  C\eo~9e Doh~maJI\JI\  Ma~y C\ood  3ackie Mose~  Scott MeJI\deJI\hall  
631-5323  631-4543  631-4540  631-5303  631-5323  

! 
I 
I 
~ 



r SPORTS 
.. ­
page 16 

Holtz, Irish open spring season 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
most visible, is quarterback where only Sports Editor freshman Tom Krug and sophomore Wade Smith are cleared for full contact. Spring football has always presented The likely starter, Ron Powlus, will not an interesting challenge to Notre Dame participate in contact drills but will coach Lou Holtz. practice. But even his limited workout is 
Problems with limited number of prac­being delayed. tices, unsettled positions and new coach­"Ron hurt his ankle stepping on a curb, es always seems to weigh heavy on Holtz but by the weekend he should be ready as the flowers begin to bloom. to go," said Holtz. "The trainers think he 
This year is no different, as Holtz and can do a little bit now, but we are going staff begin spring drills today with many to wait until the weekend." questions and little time to find the answers. Holtz is not allowed to see Powlus throw in the 
"This spring is a crucial time because we only off-season but has been told by players and have two weeks of practice in the fall before our trainers that the former high school player of the opening game and we have a lot of unsettled year is showing no ill-effects from the broken positions. That makes this spring important," clavicle he suffered in the fall. Holtz said. "They tell me he's throwing well and he said his 
One of the unsettled positions, and certainly the see SPRING I page 13 
March 22,1994 


Fencers in second entering championship finale 
Pressure to comeback falls into hands of epeeists 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Wrirer 

With four days down and one to go in the NCAA Championships at Brandeis University, the number 275 has become a prominent one for the Irish. 
That is how many points Notre Dame trails the leader Penn State heading into the men's epee team competition today. Penn State has accumulated 3625 points to the Irish's 3350 mainly due to its second place showing in the sabre team event in which the Irish fin­ished fourth yesterday. 
The epee competition now becomes crucial if the Irish are to have a chance to capture the NCAA title. Senior epee captain Greg Wozniak, senior Rian Gi­rard and junior Rakesh Patel will carry the burden tomorrow for the sixth seeded epee team. 
"Epee has always been placed on the last day," said Wozniak. "The pressure will be on us, but we'll be ready." 
While the Irish are seeded sixth, the Nittany Lions are seeded fifth. However, this remains the only event that the Lions were not given the # 1 seed. That honor went to Wayne State followed by Air Force, Princeton, and Yale with NYU and Ohio State filling 
.... 
see EPEE I page 13 
By MEGAN McGRATH "We needed this type of tournament the perfect game against the Sports W rirer to get our confidence back," said head Sycamores. 
coach Liz Miller. "Hopefully this In the elimination round of the tour­Terri Kobata was about as flawless as performance is something we can build nament, the Irish pitching staff shut out one can be from the 
on for the rest of the year." Evansville and Indiana State again by 
• • mound this weekend :\% The Irish will have to begin building the scores of 5-0 and 7-0. Kobata as she powered the now, as they travel to Bloomington pitched her second straight no-hitter in Notre Dame softball tomorrow to face a tough Indiana team the championship game, while team to the champi­in an afternoon doubleheader. Battersby one-hit the Aces. onship of the Notre Dame began the weekend well Sara Hayes continued to be the Irish Sycamore Classic at Saturday in the round-robin portion of leader at the plate. The junior catcher Indiana State. the tournament, topping Valparaiso 9-2 hit three home-runs in the tournament, Kobata tossed two and Evansville 6-0. Joy Battersby bringing her season total to six. That perfect games at her earned the complete game win over number ties a Notre Dame single-sea­
Uz Miller

hosts, the second one Valparaiso to bring her record to 4-4. son mark which she set last year. being her fifth career perfect game, as Kobata began the day earning her Hayes' first home-runs proved to be the Irish won five games to even their third win against Evansville, striking the game-winners against Valparaiso record at 11-11. She had three wins out ten. Later she struck out a Notre and Indiana State in round-robin play, 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
and 38 strikeouts Dame single-game record 17 batters in 
Irish sophomore Terri Kobata threw her fifth
see KOBATA I page 12 
career perfect game this weekend. 











