--~-----~---------------------..
r---------~-------------------------------------­

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Card provides savings 
By ANGELA PETRUCCI News Writer 
The Notre Dame En­trepreneur Club and Student Government have collaborated to provide all students with the Fighting Irish Savings Card this year. The little gold card, in its second year, offers spe­cial discounts from local mer­chants in the South Bend area. 
Last year the card was pro­duced by a professional firm in Louisiana that specialized in making discount cards for stu­dents, according to Tom Matzzie, the representative for the project from Student Gov­ernment. 
He said that the firm came to Student Government last year and offered them the savings cards free of charge, and the firm would then receive the advertising revenues made from the card. 
However. instead of going through a professional firm this year, "we saw the opportu­nity for a student group to do this project," Matzzie said. He realized that this would be a good fund-raiser for a student 
see CARD I page 4 
Funds still marked for concert 
Editor's Note: This is the second in a three-partseries examining student r;overnment and its pro­
;ects. 

By KATE CRISHAM Associate News Editor 
No, the Dead aren't coming. 
And it doesn't look like Jimmy Buffett, REM, or Jerry Seinfeld will be paying a visit to Notre Dame anytime soon. either. 
But while it appears that the benefit concert which formed the crux of Davil'l Hungeling and Matt Orsagh's campaign platform will not occur, the $10,000 allocated by Student Government for the concert will instead be added to the Student Union Board (SUB) concert fund for a con­cert this spring, according to the Student Body President 

and Vice President. cert as we had described it at 
Hungeling and Orsagh cam­the beginning is not going to paigned on the platform of happen," said Hungeling. "But bringing the Grateful Dead to we had always had the plan campus. But when the band's that if we didn't get a big promoters declined to perform enough name then we'd give at Notre Dame. citing an unde­the money to SUB for their sirable location and venue, concert." Hungeling and Orsagh allocat­"Katie (Pamenter) absolute­ed $10,000 of Student Govern­ly worked her butt off trying to ment funds for a "big-name" get someone, but we couldn't benefit concert in the spring. find anyone with a big enough 
"I think that the benefit con-name willing to come," said 
Sesquicentennial comes to close 

By LAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's News Editor 
A historic year of celebration at Saint Mary's will come to an end today with the closing sesquicentennial liturgy in An­gela Athletic Facility at 2 p.m. 
Father James Gunshinan C.S.C., from Saint Mary's Cam­pus Ministry will preside at the liturgy as well as give the homi­ly. Sister Catherine O'Brien, C.S.C., president of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. will offer a community reflection after communion. 
Afternoon classes at Saint Mary's have been cancelled so that all students and staff will have the opportunity to attend the celebration. Faculty, ad­ministrators, and this year's senior class will participate in an academic procession. 
According to Maureen Manier, executive coordinator of the sesquicentennial steering committee, several symbols of the College which were used with the opening sesquicen­tennial liturgy last January will be used again in this mass. 
"This is special because it is the first time all of these things will be seen and heard to­gether," said Manier. 
For example, the liturgical quilt, created by Regina Ivory Lupo '73, will serve as the backdrop for the mass. The processional candles and cross given to the College by the class of 1940, will be carried in the procession. Vestments for the presider were designed and sewn specifically for the sesqui­centennial celebration as well. 
Musical selections such as "Spirits Taking Flight", com­Adding to the day of celebra­posed by Associate professor of tion. the previously taped Saint music Zae Munn, with lyrics by Mary's greeting will be aired on Ted Billy. chair of the English Good Morning America be­department and Therese John­tween the hours of 7-9 a.m. this son '93, the "Canticle of Mary" morning. by Libby Larsen, and "Take Up This liturgy concludes a year Your Cross" composed by long celebration of one of the Marty Haugen will add to the nation's top women's colleges celebration. which has survived 150 years. 

A group of liturgical dancers, Events such as the Storybook led by associate professor of Festival last year and the Col-dance Indi Dieckgrafe, will lead the community in the liturgy. see SMC I page 6 Hungeling. 
"However, if any big con­certs happen next semester, whether or not we're responsi­ble for them, we plan on tak­ing credit," said Orsagh. 
According to SUB Concert Commissioner Rob Adams. the extra $10,000 from Student Government will be a welcome addition to the concert fund. 
"Oh yeah, their money is a major boost," said Adams. 
"Without them, we wouldn't be able to plan what we're planning." 
"They tried for big shows that would have been really great, but they fell through," he said. "It wasn't their fault, they just had to rely on what the artists' plans and sched­ules were." 
According to Adams. his 
see CONCERT I page 4 


Trade gains may come at cost to middle class 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Assistant News Editor 
The adoption of GATT by Congress last week will greatly benefit American trade, but unless the quality of education increases, the American middle class will further diminish, Jef­frey Bergstrand, associate pro­fessor of business economics, said. 
The General Agreement on Tariff and Trade will help in­crease U.S. exports by lowering tariffs and non-tariff trade bar­riers between countries, ac­cording to Bergstrand. 
'The agreement will produce lower prices on goods," he said, "not only on exports, but also on imported goods." 
As tariffs are reduced, the competition among interna­tional businesses will increase, said Bergstrand. Conse­quently, nations will have to fo­cus on their economic strengths in order to maintain their relative standard of living. 
"In this country, we are abundant in skilled labor. but at a comparative disadvantage in unskilled labor," he said. "Therefore, we will shift pro­duction from low tech to high tech industries." 
However, the increased em­phasis on more sophisticated jobs will diminish the earnings of unskilled workers. 
"When there is a higher rela­tive demand in high tech indus­tries, real wages for those jobs are enhanced, but low tech wages are reduced," Bergstrand said. 
In order for blue-collar labor­ers to succeed in a high tech world, education must be given a high priority, he added. 
"Since 1978, the premium of college education has gone up systematically." he said. "GATT will enhance that swelling and diminish the earn­ing power of the lesser educat­ed." 
The responsibility for ensur­ing that the lesser educated survive lies with both the gov­ernment, through its supervi­sion of the public school sys­tem, and with private busi­nesses, which must provide the necessary occupational train­ing, according to Bergstrand. 
"The government alorig with businesses need to foster the adjustment of the economy into the areas of our best re­sources," he said, "so providing a high level of education is so important." 
As the earnings of the more skilled workers increase and the wages of the lesser skilled decrease. Bergstrand warned that the middle class may dis­appear even further than it has in recent years. 
"During the 1950s and 1960s, the middle class became more prominent, meaning 
see GATT I page 4 

------------~---------­
page 2 
•INSIDE CoLurk 

WVFI won't thrive without change 
If you're ever looking for a challenge, try tuning in 640 on your AM radio dial. It's not easy, but after a few minutes of fid­dling, you may just tune in Notre Dame's WVFI. 
The station broadcasts on the AM band through 


an archaic system called 
"carrier current." Since John Lucas 
the signal is broadcast Managing Editor 
through electrical ________ 
wiring, it doesn't reach 
"remote" locations, like Saint Mary's or the 
South Bend community. 
Hecently, Steve Sostak, WVFJ's student sta­

tion manager, met with Student Affairs to dis­
cuss a longtime goal of the station-an 
upgrade to the FM band. The conversion 
could happen within two years, if, and only if, 
the station is able to comply with University 
and FCC requirements. 
One of the main conditions imposed by the 

administration requires WVFI to gain more 
student support before any application for 
conversion can be made. 
Sostak has said he will try to gain the sup­

port through an increased number of specialty 
shows, similar to the half-hour call-in pro­
grams for Student Body Presidents David 
Hungeling and Matt Orsagh. 
Heyond that, WVFI plans on broadcasting 

more of the station's bread and butter-a for­
mat of "college" music. The college genre 
seems to be made up of mainly "under­
ground" or undiscovered bands. 
So here's the problem: Everybody wants to 

see a student-run FM station on campus, but 
without changes, WVFI's dream doesn't seem 
possible. It just doesn't seem logical that 
WVFI will be able to draw in new listeners by 
offering more of the same thing students 
didn't like in the past. 
While it's hard to speak for the student body 

as a whole, it seems clear that people don't 
want to hear scheduled specialty shows as 
much as they want good music at whatever 
time they happen to be around a radio. 
As for WVFI's current "college" music for­

mat-well, let's be honest, much of it just 
doesn't appeal to the majority of students on 
this campus. If it did, why isn't student sup­
port for the station already in place? 
The programming directors selecting 

WVFI's music may dislike the idea, but now is 
the time to make a compromise with the 
musical taste of students. This campus needs 
mainstream alternative music that appeals to 
the students as well as the DJ's. 
That doesn't necessarily mean that the sta­

tion has to become an outlet for old Notre 
Dame standbys like Billy Joel or Simon and 
Garfunkel. But what about "surface" groups 
that have broken out of the underground? 
Even a format that is similar to the 
"Nocturne" program that airs on WSND would 
be preferable to the current format. 
WVFI has every right to continue pro­

gramming "spP.cialty" shows and more college 
rock. Maybe a few more people will listen. But 
if the station wants real student support in 
their drive for FM conversion, they need to 
change their format into something that's 
accessible to all the students on campus. 
If WVFI can't give students that, well, 

there's always U-93. 
The 11iews expressed in lhe Inside Column are lhose of lhe aulhor and nol necessarily lhose ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S SiAFF 
News Lab Tech Nancy Dunn Shelley Sullivan Ethan Hayward Production Susan Marx Sports Tara Gricshop Tom Schlidt Accent Bevin Kovalik Viewpoint 
Tom Roland 
Graphics 
Mike O'Hara Chris Mullins 
Suzy Fry 

The Oh..,rv<r (USI'S 599 2-4000) is puhli>hed Monday through Friday c:xccp1 during ex~m1 and vacation period~. The Observer is a member of rhc fusociarc-d Press. All reproduction rights are rese~ed. 
The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, December 8, 1994 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Researchers see signs of El Nino in Indian Ocean 
SAN El Nino in the Indian Ocean nificant El Nino 
FHANCISCO signal in the
T w Scientists have discovered that the Indian Ocean has an El Nino, a system which affects the world's weather. 1ndian 0 c e an
0 

How three major oceans share this cycle of warm waters and weak winds: 
researchers ·-·__,.---·---·-·....-~··· ·· ·~~ ·...,... ·-1 that occurs detailed a theory ,.__ .... 1simultaneously Wednesday that frj with what's El Nino's cycle of · 1 . going on in the 
:na;~:;ke;"!~~J ,,.:7:···_. J·-i ~~~~~~ar~.cific,"
is found in the Indian Ocean as Twelvr! to 18 well as the months aft1!r the 
~acific,f offering _ _ _ . . . _ .·_·.··· · . . ·-···-····--····-· ihhee~,~~~i~aai~~ ope or new A warm pool in the Indian Ocean moves eastward (1 to 3) in a cycle of three to seven years. The same 
ways to forecast phenomenon occurs in the Pacific (4 to 6). In the Atlantic, a warm pool (7) develops 12 to 18 months after the Indian oceans • monsoons and El Nino in the Pacific and Indian oceans. there is a dis-droughts. Source: Columbia Unrverslty; Unrversrty ol Calilomra, San Diego AP tinctiVe Warming 
"This effort of the equatori­goes against conventional wisdom," said one of the scien-cal Atlantic that also can wreak havoc, the researchers tists, Warren White of the Scripps Institution of said. Oceanography in La Jolla. "What's become canon is that Atlantic warming caused drought in western Africa in El Nino is basically a Pacific phenomenon." 1984 following the 1982-83 Pacific El Nino, which caused 
White, an oceanographer, and Yves M. Tourre, a mete-$2 billion to $4 billion in drought and flooding damage. orologist at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth The findings, presented at the American Geophysical Observatory in Palisades, N.Y., believe the Pacific's El Union's fall meeting here, will be published in the spring Nino is part of a larger system. In 1982-83 and 1986-87, in the Journal of Physical Oceanography. Scientists have the Pacific and Indian oceans each had a characteristic recently identified El Nino, Spanish for "the Christ El Nino warming that moved eastward, the researchers Child," as part of a cycle that usually repeats every three said. Using ocean temperature readings "we found a sig-to seven years. 
Nine New Orleans officers indicted 
NEW ORLEANS 
Nine police officers, including one accused of taking out a contract on the life of a woman who filed a brutality complaint against him, were indicted today on federal drug conspiracy and firearms charges. The officers were accused of accepting $97,000 in exchange for babysitting more than 130 kilograms of cocaine for what they be­lieved to be a drug ring. They face 15 years to life in prison if convicted. The cocaine was always under the control of the FBI and none was distributed, U.S. Attorney Eddie Jordan said. The FBI has been investigat­ing the department for the past year. Over the past sever­al years, more than 30 officers have been arrested on charges ranging from bank robbery and bribery to rape. Among those indicted today was Officer Len Davis, charged Monday with violating the civil rights of a woman shot once in the head and left dead in a street on Oct. 13, a day after she filed a complaint about seeing Davis and another officer beat a man, the FBI said. Also charged were the alleged leader of the drug ring, and a man accused of hiding the gun used to kill the woman. Davis was suspended after his arrest Monday. 
Barker has charges dismissed 
LOS ANGELES 
Bob Barker may have been involved in off-the-set hanky panky with Dian Parkinson, but a judge said there's no proof that cost Parkinson her job on "The Price is Hight." Superior Court Judge Edward M. Ross dismissed the wrongful termination claim from Parker's $8 million sexual harassment lawsuit on Tuesday. lie let stand Parker's sexual harassment and emotional distress claims, and that part of the lawsuit will go to trial, said her attorney, Laurence Labovitz. Parkinson sued Barker and Mark Goodman Productions Inc. last June, alleging that Barker coerced her into having sex with him between December 1989 and June 1993. She said she was forced to quit her job showing products on "The Price is Right" as a result. Barker, the show's host, acknowledged the two engaged in "hanky panky" but said Parkinson initiated it. 
Aristide honors slain reporters 
POHT-AU-PHINCE 

President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on Wednesday hon­ored journalists killed during army rule and pledged sup­port for the revival of a free press. Hespect for the press is "a commitment, not just a favor," Aristide told about 100 Haitian radio, TV and newspaper reporters in the Presidential Palace. About a half-dozen foreign journal­ists were also present. After army strongmen overthrew the elected Aristide in 1991, most radio stations -the main source of news for Haiti's illiterate masses ­closed. Four journalists were killed and dozens more were jailed, beaten by police or exiled. In response to one radio director's demand for an inquiry into anti-media violence and compensation for victims, Aristide ordered a minute of silence for the slain reporters, and said he has discussed with his Cabinet "the need to get justice for all victims" of the army regime. More than 4,000 people were killed during three years of army rule before U.S. troops arrived Sept. 19, removed the army from power and cleared the way for Aristide's return from exile a month later. Before the meeting, Aristide inaugurated Clauzel Desbrosses as the new chief justice of the Supreme Court. Desbrosses was the only member of the court to openly oppose the army rulers. 
Can't we make him a UK Fan? 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. 

A judge ordering the removal of an obscene tattoo from a teen-ager had a tongue-in-cheek solution to cut the cost. The 15-year-old boy, who has been through the county's juvenile court numerous times, has a four-letter obscenity on his right hand, one letter on each finger between the knuckle and first joint. School officials told the teen he had to wear adhesive bandages over the let­ters while in school, but the boy refused. In court Monday night, Vanderburgh County Circuit Judge Hobert Lensing ordered a permanent solution -have the tattoos removed. Then he was told the procedure would cost $800. "For $400, can't we just make him a UK fan?" Lensing joked. The judge ordered the entire word removed. 

• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Thursday, Dec. 8 

The Accu·Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Dec. 8. Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
Accu·Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Wealher. Inc. 
H'..."'i.. m [Sj [I] o ~ § i:l D u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a AssoclalfKI Press 
Atlanta 65 48 Dallas 54 46 New Orleans 82 51 
Baltimore 67 46 Denver 51 21 New York 57 45 
Boston 51 36 Los Angeles 67 53 Philadelphia 63 49
q,Q,~q~Q (f ~ ~ 
Chicago 36 30 Miami 84 77 St. Louis 40 37 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 58 35 Minneapolis 25 14 Toledo 35 34 
Vta Associated Press GraphJCsNet Cl994 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
n------------------------­
Thursday, December 8, 1994 .The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Forum focuses on relation of science to religion 
Fill Your Head ... 
Counseline Gives You the 
Information You Need. 
Counseline: 


lx7793 
Counseline is an audiotape information service sponsored by the Psych Club and the University Counseling Center. Counseline offers information on stress, anxiety, relationships, depression, self­esteem, eating disorders, and anger. Look around your dorm for our list of tapes. The phones are open Mon-Thurs 4pm to 12am. We are here to provide you with the information you need. 

chemistry?" She answered that since truth is holy, "the pursuit of any truth ... is a Catholic endeavor." 
These two views of the role of science at Notre Dame have dif­ferent practical consequences, the professors said. Furdyna's philosophy of science places less importance on whether sci­ence professors are Catholic. For him, the religion of profes­sors is important only to "let students know Catholics do physics." 
Hallinan, however, argues that the predominantly Catholic nature of Notre Dame's faculty gives the College of Science a strength which secular schools lack. 
Hallinan and Furdyna found several points of agreement in the course of the forum. Both urged Notre Dame to work to improve its reputation in the science community. The school is thought of as being a "very good undergraduate univer­sity," said Furdyna, but not on the cutting edge of research. As a result, Notre Dame is at a disadvantage in competing for grants and attracting faculty. 

"I have to raise something on the order of $300,000 a year," Furdyna said. The task of com­peting with such schools as Cal Tech and MIT is "simply a nightmare," he added. 
In reality, both professors noted, Notre Dame provides an excellent environment for re­search. The school has an "atmosphere of support that I never found at a major re­search university," according to Hallinan. In the last ten years the school has gained experi­ence in dealing with federal grants and other administrative aspects of major research, she added. 
Additionally, Hallinan and Furdyna agreed that the pri­mary goal of science professors is teaching students science. University research should ex­ist mainly to make professors better teachers. 
Father Richard McBrien, the president of the Faculty Senate and the moderator of this series of forums, encouraged the par­ticipants to address the Catholic university question by concen­trating "on the noun rather than the adjective." 
"A university is automatically a Catholic university, " Furdyna responded. "All the great Eu­ropean universities ... were Catholic. Any university has very Catholic traditions." 
By PATRICK BELTON 
News Writer 
It is a mistake to do science in order to understand revelation, said Physics Professor Jacek Furdyna. 
Knowledge in all its forms is an activity and characteristic of God, stated Sociology Professor Maureen Hallinan. 
The two professors offl;lred their views last night in the fo­rum "The Role of Science in a Catholic University," which was sponsored by the Faculty Sen­ate. The forum formed part of the teachers' ongoing series of discussions about Notre Dame's nature as a Catholic university. 
The sciences never contradict Notre Dame's Catholic princi­pies, said Furdyna. Further­more, scientists help scholars in other disciplines, giving, for example, theologians an un­derstanding of genetics and philosophers an awareness of evolution. 
Nevertheless, Furdyna said, science depends on a "short view" of the world which pro­gresses "fact to fact." As far as humans can tell, science by its nature is separate from reli­gion, he stated. 
Professor Hallinan disagreed, saying that it is possible to inte­grate the Catholic faith and sci­entific knowledge. Hallinan said that Father Malloy had be­gun this discussion about Notre Dame's nature by asking "Is there a [specifically1 Catholic 

No pardon, Resnover executed 
By NANCY ARMOUR the hours leading up to the exe­Associated Press cution. Resnover did not resist, and MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. had little to say when authori­
Gregory Resnover, convicted ties came to take him to the of helping kill a police officer electric chair, prison with semiautomatic weapons spokesman Barry Nothstine fire 14 years ago, was executed said. 
early Thursday after his Nothstine said Resnover was lawyers halted a last-minute asked if he had any last words, barrage of appeals to block the and replied, "I do not. I made electrocution. one to my attorney." 
Resnover became the 75th Resnover's head was shaved person executed in the state -and he was issued prison and only the third sent to the clothes of denim jeans, a light Indiana State Prison electric blue denim shirt and shower chair since the U.S. Supreme sandals. The pants were split Court reinstated capital pun­on the outside seams so elec­ishment in 1976. trodes could be attached to his He was pronounced dead at calfs. They were also attached 
12:13 a.m. CST. Prison officials to hi'!l head. said the eiectric chair func­He had turned down a last tioned properly, sending 2,300 meal of fried chicken, potatoes, volts into Resnover's body for salad, rolls and ice cream with 10 seconds, followed by 20 sec­chilled peaches. He also re­onds of 500 volts. jected a fmal shower. 
His family said he was at Resnover's body was to be peace and had held up well in turned over to family members 
and taken to a funeral home in 
Indianapolis. 
Death penalty opponents staged vigils outside the prison 
and in Indianapolis outside the official home of Gov. Evan Bayh. The governor, a conser­vative Democrat who favors the death penalty, earlier refused to block the execution. 
Resnover's lawyers and fam­ily argued in a series of unsuc­cessful appeals that evidence showed the condemned man ­though armed with a rifle at the time -was not the actual trig-
Saturday, 1)ccc111bciit 10t~ ill t~c Lafcrtu11c Ballrcc111 

I 

german responsible for the of­ficer's death. 
Prosecutors acknowledged that but noted that state law made Resnover equally respon­sible because he sprayed gun­fire toward police who were at­tempting to arrest him in the killing of an armoured car guard. 
Resnover's father, Beverly Resnover, visited his son Wednesday but did not witness the execution. 
"Gregory Resnover is being used as a political scapegoat. One of these days you're going to see the light. This thing ain't over yet," Beverly Resnover said about two hours before the execution. 
Resnover, 43, was con­demned for his part in the De­cember 1980 shooting death of Indianapolis police Sgt. Jack Ohrberg, who was killed when he tried to arrest Resnover in the shooting death of a Brinks guard. 
The U.S. Supreme Court, the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Ap­peals and various state judges all declined to block the execu­tion. Richard Waples, a lawyer for the Indiana Civil Liberties Union, said Resnover decided against filing another appeal with the state supreme court, which earlier ruled against him. 
"He hasn't received justice 
there and he'd rather not even 
give them the opportunity to 
deny him," Waples said. 
Come ~ee your favo te holiday das~u~. 
9:00pm Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer 10:0G pm National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation 
11:45 pm The Year Without aSanta Clause 
12:30 pm Scrooged 

2:15 am Frosty the Snowman 
2:45am The Grinch Who Stole Christmas Popcorn and soda will be served. 
Everything habsolutely FREE. 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported its student p~ ~ caller incentive program. 

Arby's Roast Beef Restaurants Best Buy Company Cassino's Pizza of New York Colonial Pancake House Flowerama of America Honker's KCA on the Run Lechters Housewares Lee's Chicken Pizza Hut Delivery at Martin's Plaza Power Tan and the New Pinnacle Mega Club Putter's 
Sunny's Korean Garden Patio The Varsity Shop Hair Designs We Care Hair Wing Choi 
page 4 

Concert 
continued from page I 
committee is currently working on bringing a "big-name" con­cert to campus sometime next semester. 
"We're working on some­thing big happening, and I'd say our chances are about fifty­fifty," said Adams. "We have one specific thing in mind, and if that falls through, then we have a plethora of back-up plans." 
Adams said that his commit­tee will put in an offer before the semester break, and he should receive an answer "before 1995". 
''I'll be able to announce what happened to the commit­tee when we get back, but we can't publicize anything until all the contracts are signed," Adams said. "A JACC show is 

Card 
continued from page I 
much different than a Stepan show in that there are a lot more people involved and a lot more contracts and signatures are required." 
All profits from the concert would go to the concert ND Aid, an organization which sends Notre Dame student volunteers to help out at natural disaster sites. 
According to ND Aid chair­person Pamenter, Student Gov­ernment's inability to sponsor the concert stemmed from a variety of problems. 
"What students don't realize is that there are a lot of prob­lems with our location, and with the timing of the event," said Pamenter. "Most groups are actually touring in different parts of the world during the spring which makes booking a concert kind of hard." 
"If it were up to us, we'd be having a huge concert in April," she said. "The student support 
Parsons explained that they had some difliculties with get­ting the card together. Because the project was done mostly in the summer when everyone 
The Observer • NEWS 
and student interest is there, but it's ultimately in the per­former's hands." 
Pamenter noted that her committee spent months con­tacting and sending proposals to a litany of different perform­ers. 
"We would have liked John Mellencamp, but he has this heart condition, Jimmy Buffett was not available, and REM is touring in Europe at the time," she said. "We weren't given a specific reason for Jerry Sein­feld, but he wasn't able to come either." 
Pamenter also noted that the size of the JACC also provides a problem for attracting various performers. 
"The JACC holds 10,000 to 12,000 people, which is not a huge venue," she said. "A big name group will not want to play in such a small venue. We're working in an in-be­tween venue." 
club can attract advertisers, they have to establish a good track record, said Matzzie. 
The club has learned a lot in 

GATT 
continued from page 1 
there was less overall economic inequality among all Americans," he said, "but that class has diminished gradually in the last two decades, and with GATT the trend may con­tinue." 
"A strong middle class is im­portant for economic, social and political reasons," he con­tinued, "because economic equality promotes real econom­ic growth." 
The ramifications of a disap­pearing middle class will there­fore include negative economic growth, according to Bergstrand, so measures must be taken to ensure that the middle class can find better jobs. 
"We need to create policies to foster the relocation of workers so that they can maintain their quality of life," he said. "It is easy to say that international trade is bad for this reason, but as the years progress, we will be influenced more and more 
Thursday, December 8, 1994 
by the outside world." "The only way to maintain our stan­dard of living is by actively pur­suing international trade." 
Countries will have to adjust to a more competitive interna­tional economy by making a more efficient allocation of re­sources, according to Bergstrand. 
"Education and efliciency in the workplace, therefore, will be important," he said. 
Nations less advanced than the United States will easily benefit from GATT, Bergstrand said. 
"Many economists believe that in order for less developed countries to improve, they must participate in a world-wide economy. Lowering barriers is the only reliable source of im­proving their standard of liv­ing." 
Bergstrand cited Japan as an example of a country whose economy benefited from low tariffs after the United States helped it rebuild its economy following World War II. "Japan was able to reach a standard of living comparative to ours for that reason," he said. 

organization and decided to was at home, it was difficult to this first year of doing the pro­contact the Entrepreneur Club sell spaces. However, when ject, said Parsons. For in­to take over the project. everyone returned, they were stance, they did not get the pro­
Joanna Parsons, a member of able to sell the remaining ject until last April, which was the Entrepreneur Club who spaces and get the card ready kind of late, so they would start worked primarily on the card for production. "It was a fun on it much earlier this year. 
Happy

this year, said that the Fighting project," Parsons stated. We would love to do the card Irish Savings Card was great Some of the discounts on the again next year if given the for the club because, "it is a card this year include savings chance. she added. good opportunity for students at Blockbuster Video, Domino's The cards were already dis­

Birthday,

to interact with businesses." Pizza, and Studebagel's, among tributed to campus students She added that the process was other places. through their mailboxes. Off "in tune" with the club's philos­Because they switched from a campus students can pick up ophy and that it made sense for professional firm to the En­their cards in the Student Gov­the Entrepreneur club to take trepreneur Club, there are ernment office on the second care of the job since it fits with fewer business on it than last floor of LaFortune Student Cen­the types of activities they do. year, said Matzzie. Before the ter. 




Nora! 

Recycle The Ohserver! 
November 13, 1993 

Notre Dame 31 · Florida State 24 




IRISII IMPt\e't' II 
RIElTIVJE TIHJE TRTIUMPIH~ ~ ~ 
November 13, 1993... #1 vs. #2... The Game of the Century... cap­tured in a full-color poster depict­ing the Irish defense shutting down the Seminoles. Irish Impact II post­ers now available at the Bookstore, the LaFortune Info Desk, and the South Bend Center for the Home­less. Only $10 each. Makes a great holiday gift! 
A.ll proceeds_ benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless 
Advertisement space donated by Notre Dame Student Government 


--~---~------~~-----~~---~-~~------~~----------­
Thursday, December 8, 1994 

PBS documents views on welfare, poverty 
By SONYA ROSS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Most Americans believe peo­ple on welfare collect more than they actually do and think the poverty line should be higher than it is; a survey indi­cates. People seem to see wel­fare payments as "pouring water into a leaky bucket" but they want to fix the bucket rather than stop pouring, says the survey's sponsor. 
The study, conducted for an upcoming PBS television docu­mentary on American poverty programs by the independent Center for the Study of Policy Attitudes, found that 84 per­cent agreed that society has a "moral obligation" to help the poor, and that 80 percent thought government should do something about poverty. 
"Even among white males, the demographic group who made the strongest shift in the last election, 75 percent agreed that the government has a re­sponsibility to try to eliminate poverty," the study said. 
The study found wide chasms between the way people view federal anti-poverty programs of the 1960s War on Poverty, and what they think should be done about them. 
For example, 75 percent said they feel government programs are rife with waste and do little to help poor people, but only 10 percent wanted to eliminate welfare. 
Eighty-five percent supported replacing welfare with pro­grams that create jobs for poor parents who want work but can't get it -yet only 21 per­cent wanted to cut the amount spent on current programs. 
"They do perceive that 
there's a high level of waste 
and fraud in poverty programs. 
Even with that, they still don't want to decrease spending," said Steven Kull, director of the center, which conducted the study for the producers of "America's War On Poverty," which will be broadcast Jan. 16-18. 
But Kull, a faculty member at the University of Maryland, cautioned that the survey re­sults did not mean there is wide public enthusiasm for anti-poverty programs. "There's a good deal of frus­tration. But they think it's morally wrong to just pull the plug," he said. 
Fifty-eight percent of those polled thought the federal poverty line should be higher than its current income limit of $14,763 a year for a family of four. Only 7 percent felt it should be lower. The average income limit suggested by those polled was $17,856, 21 percent higher than the pre­sent level. 
When asked how much they believe a single mother with two children receives in wel­fare payments, the average re­sponse was $685 a month, the study said. The national aver­age for state and federal pay­ments is $366 monthly. 
Ninety-two percent said re­ducing poverty would be a good economic investment. Seventy-three percent said increasing aid to the poor would cut racial tension and crime. 
As for financing such aid, 58 percent said the wealthy should pay more in taxes for poverty programs, while 34 percent said the wealthy should not be required to pay more. 
The poll, conducted Oct. 13­16, surveyed 900 Americans at random, 23 of whom gave in­depth interviews. The margin of error is plus or minus 3.5 to 4 percentage points. 

The Observer/Rob Finch 

Chow down 

Notre Dame men consume mass q-uantities in the Hot Wing Eating Contest last night in the Oak Room. 

Perry: Slow withdrawal from Haiti 
By SUSANNE SCHAFER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

It will take at least several months before the situation in Haiti will allow for a pullout of 
U.S. troops, Defense Secretary William Perry said today, rejecting calls from some Republicans for a speedy with­drawal of American forces. 
The U.S. involvement in Haiti "has been and continues to be a very good investment" for the United States because it has ended the flow of refugees to America's shores, the secretary said. 
However, Perry said, training for a Haitian police force "will take several months," and therefore a handoff from U.S. troops to United Nations peace­keepers will not be possible as soon as January or February. 
"I don't think the security sit­uation will be prepared for a turnover" at that time, he said. 
In the wide-ranging interview with news service reporters, Perry also rejected GOP sugges­tions· that the Pentagon revive a nationwide "Star Wars" missile defense system at this time. 
But the defense secretary dis­closed that the Clinton ad­ministration plans to put for­ward a "robust program in the­ater missile defense, leading toward deployment with an ag­gressive schedule" for sea­based and ground-based anti­missile defense systems. 
"What we will not have in the program is a robust program leading to deployment of a con­tinental missile defense system, and that's where I think the debate is going to be in the Congress," Perry said. 
On Bosnia, Perry said he will review NATO's "detailed and carefully laid out plans" to aid in a potential withdrawal of United Nations peacekeepers from the former Yugoslavia next week at a meeting of al­liance defense ministers. 
But the secretary declined to disclose the number or type of force Washington might con­tribute, saying only that the "contact group" of nations at­tempting to work on a peace accord have not given up. 
Perry said he has been in close consultation with British and French defense officials, both of whom have threatened to withdraw their peacekeeping contingents should Washington unilaterally lift the arms em­bargo against the Bosnian gov­ernment. 
Perry said he continues to ar­gue against such a step, which has been pushed by incoming Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R.-Kan. 
But despite his differences with the incoming leadership on Capitol Hill, Perry voiced the hope that he will be able to achieve bipartisan cooperation on many issues. 

YOUR TIME IS UP • Christmas is right around the corner and you already gave Mom an ''Irish'' sweatshirt last year. Give your family a gift that will keep them in touch with you and the school you attend. The Observer is an indispensible link to the two campuses for information on people and events at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. join the 13,000 readers who Please include $35 for one semester. Make checks payable to The Observer. have already found The Observer to be the best sourceName: ______________________________________ _ for information on campus. Fill out the card below, Address:____________________ include a check, and The Observer will be City: State Zip.___ delivered to your home for Please mail to: The Observer, PO Box 0, Notre Dame IN, 46556 the start of the *First semester subscribers: This is your renewal notice. second semester.  

-----~­
~------~----------------~----------~--------­
page 6 

The Observer • PEARL HARBOR ANNIVERSARY Thursday, December 8, 1994 
SMC Japanese assume Pearl Harbor becoming 
continued from page 1 


blame, place guilt 'day of irrelevancy' 
lege's birthday party in August 
aimed to bring the entire com­
Associated Press many students' fathers who
munity together, according to By P.H. FERGUSON sank almost one-third of the 
served in the military did so
Manier. Associated Press U.S. Pacific Fleet at the Hawai­
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. during the Vietnam War. 
"I feel this was a successful ian military base, killing about 
Some teachers say Franklin "It seems to me that students 
year because all of the events NAGASAKI 2,400 people. 
D. Roosevelt's "day of infamy" have a greater desire to learn
really spoke to and about the He was shot by a right-wing Despite his views on the cru­
has turned into a day of irrele­about Vietnam because I think
heart and sole of the institu­extremist for daring to attack elty of the atomic bombing, 
vancy for today's high school a lot of the kids have parents
tion," said Manier. "They were the emperor's conduct during Motoshima. 72. is one of 
students. who were possibly in the Viet­
very powerful and meaningful World War II. But Nagasaki's Japan's most outspoken critics 
Fifty-three years ago nam War and have learned a
for those associated with the mayor still thinks atom bombs of his nation's wartime role. 
Wednesday -at 7:55 a.m. little about it at home," said
College." • were a punishment way out of The Roman Catholic mayor 
Hawaiian time -Japanese Rowley. " ... World War II is just
In looking back at the year, proportion to Japan's crimes. was shot in the chest by an ul­
bombers attacked the U.S. fleet too long ago." 
Manier says it has had a great "Pearl Harbor was not as tranationalist in 1988 for say­
at Pearl Harbor, sinking or Ron Stewart, chairman of the 
affect on the College. cruel as the atomic bombing," ing the late Emperor Hirohito 
damaging 19 ships and leaving social studies department at
"It is not so much that the Mayor Hitoshi Motoshima told could have spared Nagasaki by 
2,300 Americans dead. Terre Haute North, says stu­
College has changed but it has The Associated Press. "The helping to end World War II 
The Japanese surprise attack dents generally show more of
gained new insight and in­atom bomb wiped out every­sooner. 
was a turning point in World an interest in wars, compared
creased its presence in the thing: people in church, chil­· "Japan will be full of point­
War II, but some teachers say with American peacetime his­
community," she said. "{The dren in kindergarten, even less discussions about the war 
students consider it ancient tory.
year) gave Saint Mary's a sense their dogs and cats. Pearl Har­until we accept the fact that all 
history. While some students might
of its own strength and in­bor was terrible, but not as bad Japanese people bear some re­
"It is just another event that be bored by lessons on the at­
crease its confidence. People as that." sponsibility for what hap­
happened a long time ago that tack on Pearl Harbor, Bilsland
know why Saint Mary's is a More than 70,000 people died pened," he said in an interview 
really they can't see any bear­says the topic comes up each
school which has thrived over after the United States dropped with the AP last week. 
ing to their life," said Robert August when classroom discus­
the past 150 years." an atom bomb on Nagasaki on "Japan has yet to put the war 
Bilsland, chairman of the social sions focus on the first and only 
This closing liturgy and the Aug. 9, 1945. An estimated to rest," Motoshima said. "I 
studies department at Terre uses of atomic weapons in
entire sesquicentennial year 140,000 people died in Hi­believe we are still fighting it, in 
Haute South High School. armed conflict. 
was planned by a committee roshima after the first atomic a way. I said as much at a par­
"They are more interested in The United States dr.opped an
headed by Dorothy Feigl, vice bomb was dropped three days ent teacher association meeting 
Vietnam and {the Gulf War's atomic bomb on Aug. 6, 1945,
president and dean of faculty earlier. recently and several of the peo­
Operation) Desert Storm." at Hiroshima, killing 140,000
and Manier. According to A broken Tokyo surrendered ple in audience started crying." 
Frank Rowley, social studies people. A second atomic bomb
Manier, other people from Aug. 15, 1945. Motoshima has been mayor of 
chairman at West Vigo High, was dropped on Aug. 9 at Na­
nearly every department of Japan went to war with the Nagasaki since 1979, and be­
agreed. He said time has less­gasaki, killing 70,000 people.
Saint Mary's were also involved United States on Dec. 7, 1941, fore that was a legislator for 
ened students' interest in Japan surrendered on Aug. 15,
in the hard hours of planning. when Japanese fighter planes the Liberal Democratic Party 
World War II. He noted that 1945. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY•.. 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
YOU'RE INVITED..... PLEASE R.S.V.P. 
We are caught in the darkest and most gloomy days of the year, longing for the return of the sun's light and life. As Advent people, we pray and prepare and light our way with candles, stars, and twinkling lights. It is a time ofyear when we seek to confront the cold, dark realities of a sinful world by taking time to celebrate Emmanuel, "God with us," and to reach out in friendship and fellowship to others. It becomes a season ofwatchfulness, a time of growing hope and anticipation that often leads to deepened prayer. 
What are you mindful of? What are you hoping for? When and how are you praying? 
We at Campus Ministry have begun a process ofcompiling and publishing a new student book of prayers by, of, and for the Notre Dame community. It is our hope that this prayer book will be a source of daily inspiration and comfort, as well as a guide to teach and lead us in prayer. We also feel that this book might become a special keepsake for students to mark their years here at Notre Dame. Since one book of prayer cannot be all things to all people, we have decided to aim for a collection that will reflect the life, spirit, and mission of Notre Dame. We would like it to be truly representative of the great diversity and rich tradition that is the heart of our University and our Church. 
We wish to invite and encourage you to write original prayers, submit already published prayers that have become favorites ofyours, and in general, to share with us what has been helpful to you in your prayer lives. 
Below is an outline of the proposed student prayer book, so that you might get a better idea ofwhat we are looking for: 
I. PRAYERS OF THE CHURCH: Favorite traditional prayers that are part of our worship and heritage, said in Church, at home, at work, in school, on special occasions and feasts. 
II. MILESTONES AND SEASONS: Original compositions by students that reflect special moments and highlights oflife here at Notre Dame. Consider special places and events that mark the feelings and rhythm of the school year. 
In this section we would also like to include prayers that reflect the Church Liturgical Year.These can be both original and published prayers ofAdvent, Christmas, Lent, Easter, Pentecost and Marian Feasts. 
III. MOMENTS OF LIFE/ORDINARY TIME: Original and published prayers that reflect the joys, sorrows, struggles and concerns of daily life. 
IV. 
RHYTHM OF THE DAY: Original and published prayers that can be used for morning, noon and evening prayer. 

V. 
PRAYERS OF CHRISTIAN WITNESS: Original and published prayers that reflect service to the world and commitment to social justice. 


We share this much with you now, during this Advent Season of prayer and preparation, in hopes that you might begin to write and collect material that could be used in this student book of prayers. We will be collecting prayers through the mon~hs ofJanuary-April 1995; they can be dropped off at the Badin Hall Campus Ministry Office, C/0 John and Sylvia Dillon. Please include your name and phone with all submitted material, as well as source information with published works. 
May your prayer and work ofAdvent bring you to joyful celebration of the feast of light and life! John and Sylvia Dillon GAUDETE SUNDAY • THIRD SUNDAY OF ADVENT 
COMMUNITIES ND! COMMUNITIES ND! COMMUNITIES ND! groups ofstudents who come together to share and learn about their faith 
SIGN UP ANYTIME THROUGH DECEMBER 20 
at Campus Ministry Offices: 103 Hesburgh Library or Badin Hall Questions? Call631-5242 
FEAST OF OUR LADY OF GUADALUPE Monday, December 12, 5:00p.m. Liturgy Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Dec. 10 5:00p.m. Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C. Sun. Dec. 11 10:00 a.m. Rev. Terence Linton, C. S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C 

Scripture Readings for This Coming Sunday 
TI $lt ~mdllill1l~ Zephaniah 3:14-18 zml~ m.~&l<dlfuril~ Philippians 4:4-7 G©~]p~ll Luke 3:10-18 
Thursday, December 8, 1994 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 7 






Clinton calls for united front 
By jOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON After virtually ceding the 

post-election stage for three weeks, President Clinton ap­pears ready to engage the Republicans. But first, he's 


trying to Clinton make a point -and perhaps peace -with fellow Democrats. 
"Join me in the arena, not in the peanut gallery," Clinton told an audience of moderate Democrats Tuesday night, call­ing for an end to carping about his performance and the be­ginning of a united Democratic front against the new GOP ma­jority in Congress. 
A combative Clinton had harsh words for Republicans, too, serving notice that he will contest their ideas for budget, government and other reforms -and will fight to protect what he sees as the accomplishments of his first two years, from gun control to new college loan and national service programs. 
"The answer is not to reverse what we have done but to build on it," Clinton told the Demo­cratic Leadership Council in his first extensive review of the midterm elections since a solemn morning-after news conference. 
"The answer is to reach out to the middle class and say, 'We know why you are angry. We know why you are frustrat­ed. We got the message of the election."' 
Clinton is to spell out soon just how he plans to respond in policy; Tuesday night's speech was a dry run. 
He said he was eager for co­operation with the new Repub­lican majorities in Congress, yet equally eager for a "contest of ideas" over how best to cut the budget and the government, reform welfare and help work­ers adjust to frightening eco­nomic change. 
Winning that contest, Clinton said, will depend on a good deal of Democratic unity, some­thing that's been nonexistent since the party's midterm deba­cle and in short supply for many months before that. 
Anger at Clinton and his White House extends deep into the ranks of defeated and nar­rowly re-elected Democrats from Capitol Hill and the gu­bernatorial ranks. And it will take much more than one com­bative speech to salve the wounds. Still, many Democrats viewed Clinton's remarks as a welcome start. 
"There was fire in the belly; there was passion there again," said AI From, the DLC presi­dent. 
"Sure, people are still mad but Monday morning quarter­backing rarely lasts through Tuesday," said Sen. John Breaux of Louisiana, a crucial Clinton ally in the effort to make peace with Democrats in Congress. 
During the president's si­lence, Republicans have made daily pronouncements about their plans -and have won widespread public good will along the way. 



'IMEN'I'S 
A Times Mirror national sur­vey of 1,511 Americans con­ducted last weekend and re­leased Wednesday, for exam­ple, found that 52 percent sup­ported the GOP agenda and 62 percent believed Republicans will be successful in getting things done. 
Former chief charged with embezzlement 
By MICHAEL SNIFFEN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Billy R. Dale, former chief of the White House travel office, was indicted today on charges he pocketed more than $68,000 paid by news organizations for reporters to travel with the president. 
An indictment charging the 57 -year-old Clinton, Md., resi­dent with two counts of embez­zlement and conversion was returned in U.S. District Court here. 
Dale's attorney, Steven Tabackman, was out of town but had said Monday that Dale denied the charges and would vigorously defend himself at trial. 
The federal grand jury charged that from February 1988 through April 1991, Dale deposited 55 checks totaling $54,188.61 in his own account at Maryland National Bank in­stead of putting them in a trav­el office account at Riggs National Bank that was used to pay press travel expenses. 
The grand jury actually charged him with embezzling only 41 of the 55 checks be­cause 14 checks are more than five years old and a statute of limitations bars charges con­cerning them. Neither the in­dictment nor the Justice De­partment spokesman John Russell gave a total amount for the 41 checks. 
The government said the checks included payments by news organizations for their­reporters' expenses and refund checks from telephone compa­nies and other businesses that had been overpaid for provid­ing services to traveling re­porters. 
In a second count, the grand jury charged that between February 1992 and January 1993, Dale cashed checks on the Riggs travel office account to replenish the travel office's petty cash fund but converted $14,000 of the cash to his own use instead. 
The charges against Dale carry a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and $500,000 in fmes. 
Dale headed the travel office from 1982 until his dismissal in May 1993 along with six other employees of the office. 
An audit in May 1993 had found the office kept sloppy records. White House lawyers called in FBI officials at the time of the firing to announce an investigation. The lawyers' failure to route their request through the Justice Department was later criticized as giving the appearance of trying to pressure the FBI. 
Controversy also arose when it was learned initial com­plaints about the office came from Catherine A. Cornelius, a 25-year-old distant cousin of President Clinton, who was assigned to the office and want­ed to run it, and from Harry Thomason, a Hollywood pro­ducer and friend of Clinton's who wanted travel office busi­ness for his air charter compa­ny. 
Five of those fired were re­hired elsewhere in government; a sixth retired. 



9 month-12 month Leases 
Furnished Apartments, 
All Utilities Covered, Central Air 
Leasing Now for August 1995 


Make your apartment selection early! 
These apartments will feature the high..-efficiency, energy..-saving heat pump. 


page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, December 8, 1994 
Fund fails, forces Orange County to file bankruptcy 
By ROB WELLS 
Associated Press 
The bankruptcy filing by Or­ange County, Calif. is like a stu­pefying slap for thousands of investors who bought what they thought were safe bonds from the affluent county and other government agencies enmeshed in its crisis. 
What is the impact beyond Orange County's borders? Some basic questions and an­swers on the market in munici­pal bonds, the scale of the problem and why it matters. 
Q: How could this happen in Orange County, one of the rich­est areas in the country? 
A: The county runs a large investment fund, where it puts taxpayer money and its own borrowings to work in the fi­nancial markets. Many other counties, cities and states do the same. Last week, Orange County disclosed the fund suf­fered a $1.5 billion Joss in value due to sharply rising interest rates. 
Another 185 local agencies, ranging from school districts to water districts, also had in­vested millions in the fund. As a result, Wall Street investment banks declined to renew $1.2 billion in loans the fund had used in its investment strate­gies, forcing the county to seek bankruptcy court protection Tuesday. 
Amid this financial crisis, in­vestors who purchased munici­pal bonds from Orange County and the other agencies are now wondering if their investments are safe.Q: What are municipal bonds? llow does this crisis affect them? 
A: The municipal bond mar­ket is one of the most basic parts of the American invest­ment landscape and a critical way for local governments to raise money. More than 50,000 state and local government agencies have issued $1.3 tril-
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631..5323. 

there will be defaults. 
So far, the scale of the Orange County crisis has mildly depressed prices in the stock and bond markets as analysts wait to get more complete information. 
Q: Is there a danger of default for muni bonds issued by agen­cies involved in the Orange County investment fund? 
A: The situation is unclear, but defaults are unlikely based 

AP 

on past experience. Muni bond lion in municipal bonds to in­experts say individual investors vestors, with the proceeds used sliould sit tight until better in­to build airports, schools and formation surfaces. sewage systems. About 75 per­Generally speaking, muni cent of all muni bonds are held bonds with private insurance by individual investors because guaranteeing principal and in­they are tax-exempt. terest payments will continue to 
"The main thing is, this is a make scheduled payments. very important market to our AMBAC Indemnity Corp., a ma­country, not just this one coun­jor bond issuer, said Wednes­ty," said James Spiotto, a day it had sufficient resources municipal bond specialist with to cover any defaults. the Chicago law firm Chapman Bonds that pay investors from and Cutler. a special tax -many mass 
The crisis could possibly lead transit bonds fall into this cate­to defaults in some of the muni gory -or bonds that make bonds issued by Orange County payments from revenues re­
or related agencies, which ceived from utilities like waste­would make those bonds water treatment plants, proba­plunge in value and roil the bly will continue to pay on muni bond market, making it schedule as well, said Spiotto. harder for issuers to sell bonds. The National League of Cities But many experts don't believe issued a statement that should 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
presents 

Handel's 
MESSIAH 
Thursday, Dec. 8 Friday, Dec. 9 8:00p.m. 

Washington Hall 
Tickets $6 General Admission $3 Students Available at LaFortune Box Office 
~~ 
~~ 
1~1~1~1-1~ 
give bondholders hope. 
" ...The filing of municipal bankruptcy does not, in any way, eliminate the requirement to pay interest on bonds. In­deed, many bondholders are preferred creditors," the group said. 
Attorneys say the outlook is less clear once bankruptcy hearings begin, since the out­come can't be predicted. 
Q: What's happened to bonds in previous municipal bank­ruptcies? 
A: The San Jose, Calif., school district didn't default on bond payments despite its 1983 bankruptcy filing. Local gov­ernment take pains to avoid default, since it can undermine their ability to sell more bonds in the future. 
Its unknown to what extent the agencies tied up in the Or­ange County fund relied on the proceeds to finance their bond payments, said Bob Sharp, a tax and securities specialist with the law firm Rogers and Wells in New York. 
But many municipal bond ex­perts say they expect the gov­ernment of California to inter­vene with its own money and borrowing power if necessary to minimize any disruption. 
Phillip B. Lassiter, chairman of Ambac, said "We continue to believe that Orange County has the capacity to meet its finan­cial obligations and believe it reasonable to assume that the state of California will be sup­portive in resolving these issues." 

~2~~enan1aans """w l1fl Q NOTPE DAf1E"'3 SINGING Af"W DANCING Er--ISU1BLE FREE Christmas Concert Saturday, December 1 0 7:00P.M. \/\tach ·1nnt'"'n UallY V vii I~ VI I I I II  



:fo't'J-tp ~ toek/ne /o 017N~?e de 
So~ 

OF THE 



CoNCEPIION 
0'/ic//r:/:0//tftz;n/"#. fo"e;zc/r), tVtd'~~to UttdeYtU ?h fi!/?pe/ntf~?1P 


Barbara Ballasty 
.. Thursday, December 8, 5:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Father Edward Malloy, C.S. C., Presider 

IJ.lli;:I J.i·l;! Jfilf·W·I I Q·W·+M·i3 I•'I:I iB3: I I ·f.S'• i·l.' f·l :I if.t3: I ltU'ii"UtJI k1 Ef.lt1H·BI 1'1·11!J:jif. \I) ij ;13;l ij ij tl 
' PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION I BREAK OATES /lENGTli OF STAY 
1.;.800.;.SliNCIIAS·E 
TOLL F~E II•IIF"oi1WATION 8.11ESE11VATIONS 


VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 8, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 

• 
Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Acant Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­don of either insrirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoinr-space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Inform a lion 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• I, FARRINGTON 
No more cammies on campus 
It's Peace on Earth Week, or so they tell me, so I have decided to pick a fight with ROTC. Why, when I think of those warmon­gering no-goodniks soaking the civilized ethos out of my beloved Notre Dame, it makes me mad­der than a fragged Second Lieutenant. No, but seriously ­who told these people that they could walk around our fine cam­pus dressed up in camouflage suits? 
Everyone knows that students are supposed to dress in classic tweeds and flannels, or failing that, sweatpants and a back­
wards base-================
ball cap. discussions. (And for 
But that's Madam, a as individu­"Sex IGlls" T­als. The
Josh Shirt and whole point Converse hi­of ROTC, tops). What cammies,
Ozersky

is this walk­marching ing around in around in 
----========---­the parking

cam m i e s?
Are they hid­ing from their professors? I understand that on the days they take their "military science" classes they are required to wear military dress, and among these choices are the camouflage fatigues. Except for military sci­ence, I guess, where they pre­sumably wear camouflage lab coats, these ROTC classes require no special gear. You can walk around in the parking lot in. street clothes. I've done it many times. The only purpose of the uniforms is to put the students into a cliquish, self-approving, conformist frame of mind. To make them, in other words, the heirs of Winfield Scott and George McClellan rather than Thomas Aquinas and Albertus Magnus. 
Now, I realize that at this point, all the ROTC people will snort at me. 
"Listen to that fat bastard! It's 
people like him that make me 
hate civilians!" 
"What a wuss." 
"He said we wear cammie lab 
coats! What a retard! Everyone 
knows they're olive drab." 
"I oughta go down to that ·newspaper and kick his ass good." 
I understand the sentiment. 
But the ROTC people shouldn't 
feel like I'm dissing them as indi­
viduals. As individuals, they 
tend to be smarter than most 
undergraduates. more articulate, 
better in 
lot, etc. is to abolish their individualism. I say, leave that stuff at Parris Island where it belongs. 
ROTC accounts for 10% of undergraduate tuition, or so I'm told. I have therefore gathered that it represents yet another point on which Notre Dame has sold out the Catholic tradition for a mess of pottage -as if they needed the money! Where does a Catholic university come off encouraging this sort of stuff on its own campus? Do these ROTC people read St. Thomas on the concept of the just war? Or the Church fathers on the duty of the Christian to the state? I bet they don't: the whole idea of military training is antithetical to the idea of the university, Catholic or oth­erwise. An immersion in arts and letters is supposed to open up your universe, to make you aware of what you don't know, and what you can't know. Military training is the worship of finitude; it is a love song to closed-mindedness. That's why generals always make bad Presidents. (And I don't want to hear any crap about how good they are at foreign relations, either-that's not what a President is for). 

I can't imagine what kind of thing they talk about in that mys­terious, fortress-like ROTC building. Zhukov's flanking maneuver? The need for an all­powerful "Papa Doc"-style dicta­tor? The everpresent fear that Uzbek paratroops will invade our parking lots? What? The whole thing puts me in mind of the marching song from Nabokov's Cloud, Castle , Lake : 
Tramp your country's brush 
and stubble 
With the good, the hearty guys! 
Kill the hermit and his troubles 
And to hell with doubts and 
sighs!. 
In a paradise ofheather, Where the field mouse screams and dies Let us march and sweat together With the steel-and-leather guys! 
I don't really think the ROTC programs are that bad, I guess. It's even okay with me if they want to go around wearing their dress uniforms, in the spirit of an amateur theatrical. But those jammies have got to go. Oh-I mean cammies. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in History. E-Mail directed to him should be sent to: joshua.a. ozersky.l@nd. edu 
page 9 
• lETTERS TO THE EmTOR 
Save us some cheer and judge movies like books 
Dear Editor: 
I am responding to Dave Griffith's article titled "Tis the Season For Bad Movies" which appeared in The Observer on Monday, Dec. 5, 1994. Throughout this shallow, yet humor­ous, movie review, Griffith critiques movies he has not yet seen. 
In this dreary season full of never ending colds, flu bugs, and especially ear infections, most of us are bound to go out to the movies to catch some winter cheer. Only then are we able to criticize or praise a movie. Yet Griffith takes the liberty to d~.t this before seeing the movie. Despite this major flaw, he is right about one thing, to quote directly from his article-he does make mistakes "every once in awhile." 
Griffith's premature, sarcastic, and twisted views of this season's movies only demonstrates immaturity and ignorance. We all know never to judge a book (or in this case a movie) by its cover-a lesson learned about the third day of nursery school. Apparently Mr. Griffith was absent that day. 
MOLLY RUSSELL Freshman Lewis Hall 
Appreciating English 
Dear Editor: Your News Copy Editor, Edward Imbus, professed a rever­
. ence for poets in his Inside Column article "Our language and its abuses", so I've decided to do him a favor and send him a little poetic advice: 
"Embarrassing and unprofessional" It is indeed, to wrong your mother tongue, For officers and for ombudspersons, For copy editors, though, most of all. 
What I'm about to say might draw some groans, But poets must defend English, you said, So let me give you some advice, dear Ed: You live in a glass house-don't throw those stones. 
You've foolishly allowed an oversight: "A poet" is just one, says simple math. I draw your eye to your last paragraph: 
You see, "their time" just simply isn't right. 
Alas, as you attack your Notre Dame, Your own poor skills are greater cause for shame. 
ALBERRES Junior Keenan Hall 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 
fOR. YCAJC5, ... INV&5176ATIN6 
7H&IR. f?URC.->VLJ, /Jl3MONIZ/N6 
5fNTATIVe3 CW YW, TAX!N6 YOU.' 
711/~COMM!T'ff& a!&/..1.-, '311<, y~ 
HAV&fiU!Ht&SS­N16HTMAR1315 
tYH:JUNPW OV~! fll&WOM 
YCVI<INPIJ57RY.•. 158ACI<IN / lOIUN/ 
/ 
• Quon: OF THE DAY 
''Game? I was born game, sis, and aim to die in that condition." 
-Rooster Cogburn 
in True Grit 


..--------------~----------_,______________ -----------~--~ 
VIEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, November 8, 1994 
• PEACE ON EARTH 
Embodying peace in our hearts and action 
As we approach the interpersonally. I believe there Christmas holiday season, are three levels of peace a per­peace is a word that is heard son can strive for in order to be and used frequently. "Let there part of the solution of overcom­be peace on earth." "Celebrate ing a violent world. Peace." "Peace on earth and At the most basic level, peace goodwill toward men." I believe must begin in our minds. An that everyone who uses these "undisturbed state of mind" words wishes it to be so but I and "absence of mental con­wonder how many of us put flict" are common definitions those words into action. referring to peace of mind 
As we all know, there is not found in the Webster's peace on this earth; we cannot Dictionary. While these defini­l'elebrate peace; and goodwill tions serve as a reference point in understanding what peace of mind is, it is important for each one of us to explore what does it mean to have peace of mind. For me. having peace of mind means knowing what is bother­
Beverly 

a way to live healthily and pro­practice "random acts of kind­
ing me and choosing how I 

ductively. ness."
Vandiver 
want to handle it. Sometimes Finally, peace can be imple­We need to actively put into peace of mind means putting it mented at the interpersonal practice the presence of peacein God's hands and trusting I There are number of issues level. This level of peace over­at all levels of our lives, men­does not exist toward all men will know what to do or not to currently going on in our com­laps with the behavioral level of tally, attitudinally, behaviorally or human beings. Instead, do. Each one of us must explore munities which require our at­peace. The primary difference and interpersonally. We cannot everywhere we turn there is how to achieve peace of mind. 

tention. One issue is the level of is that at the interpersonal level wait for peace to occur at the news of violent acts in our com­Yet we need to be careful not to violence in our communities the focus is on our social rela­larger systemic level. Bather we munities and around the world. use the phrase. "peace of mind" and among our teenagers. We tionships instead of on issues need to have peace in our lives Unless the violence strikes close as a rationalization to justify need to become active in instill­that impact our interactions. In on a daily and have it to be a to home or we can personalize violent acts such as the oppres­ing peace in our children by as times of local or national crises, movement that goes up the sys­it such as in the recent Smith sion of others or for selfish many alternatives as possible I marvel at the human capac­tem. So as we turn our thoughts case of Union, South Carolina, gain. 
rather than simply increasing ity to be peaceful by lending a to the holiday season and we can detach ourselves from Another level of peace is law enforcement. Suppression helping hand to strangers. We Martin Luther King's birthday,these events. To not do so based on how we overtly exhib­of violence does not necessarily all have seen those moments let us put our hearts into what would eventually immobilize us it peace. How do we conduct eliminate violence. To decrease such as the earthquake in LA. I it means to be a peaceful per­because we would be so over­ourselves on a daily basis? Do or eliminate violence requires often wish for a way to bottle son and to coexist peacefullywhelmed with the prevailing we stand up for our beliefs and the presence of peace. Peace such kindness and cooperation. and to implement it at the level existence of violence in our put them into action? In this must be implemented in order Yet the very nature of being you currently are. In the words world. day and age, we see very little to compete for the void left human and flawed, it is unreal­of Martin Luther King, Jr. "We Yet I believe we need to be activism occurring throughout when violence is removed. To istic to expect peace at such a must concentrate not merely on mindful of the violence swirling our communities. During the not do so will mean that vio­level. But it is a level of inter­the eradication of war but on around us in order to be part of sixties and seventies, numerous lence will easily reappear. We personal peace that we can the affirmation of peace." Peace the solution as much as possi­people exhibited their belief in need to be saturating the chil­strive to achieve. We can pro­be with you. 
hle. How do we stay mindful of peace by being part of the civil dren in our communities with mote peace interpersonally by Vandiver is a psychologistwhat is going on in our commu­rights movement or protesting as many positive alternatives as smiling and greeting others for the Counseling Center. 

nities without becoming immo­the war .against Vietnam. 

possible in order to strengthen more and by helping others Editor's Note: This is the fourth 
bilized? The answer lies in the Ironically, to stand up for peace the internalization of a peaceful more on a daily than just dur­in a five-part series on Dr. 

incorporation and internaliza­with the notion of doing it mind and peaceful behavior as ing the holiday season. We can Martin Luther King. Jr. 

tion of peace mentally and peacefully does not guarantee that the process will be peace­ful. Sometimes the best we can hope for is that the end result is just and brings about peace. 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

How much longer will the denial conitinue? 
Dear Editor: 
Last Thursday, Dec.l. I visited Notre Dame for the first time. Among the sites I made a point of seeing on Notre Dame's beautiful campus was the Grotto. There, r came upon the last let­ter Tom Dooley wrote to Father IIesburgh. In that letter. a dying Dooley wrote: "I have monstrous phantoms ... as all men d£). But I exorcise them with all the fury of the middle ages." I won­dered what were the phantoms that so tormented poor Tom Dooley? 
Handy Shilts, in his book on gays in the military, "Conduct Unbecoming," reports that early in Dooley's career, rumors reached the Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI), that the charismatic young doctor and Notre Dame alumnus was gay. Shilts writes: 
"The Office of Naval Intelligence sug­gested two possible routes of obtaining (Dooley's) severance from the Navy. First, the Navy could attempt to obtain a straightforward confession.. .The other option was to plant an ONI agent at the hotel bar where Dooley was staying so (the agent) could be solicited by (Dooley)." 
There is no record of which strategy worked. What is a matter of record is that two weeks after this confrontation with the ONI, Tom Dooley resigned his naval commission. His separation papers were stamped "Undesirable Discharge." 
One of Dooley's closest friends report­ed that, shortly before his death, Dooley spoke of the shame he felt about his dis­charge from the Navy. Dooley is said to have remarked, "All they'll remember is that l was queer." Years later, about the same time of the letter enshrined in the Grotto, the United States Government retroactively granted Dooley an honorable discharge. 

Still, I keep wondering about the "phantoms" that haunted Tom Dooley. Were they the furies of self-hatred and internalized oppression that so many gay men and lesbians feel when they cannot accept or be accepted in their sexuality? That question stays with me because of another experience I had while visiting Notre Dame. 
You see, I came to campus at the invi­tation of the Gays and Lesbians of Notre 
'Quite frankly, every member 
of the Notre Dame fami­ly ... ought to be ashamed that his or her gay sisters and broth­ers are denied approval for something as meager as posting announcements for a lecture." 
Dame and Saint Mary's College to speak on legal issues affecting gay and lesbian people. Shortly before the talk, I was shown one of the posters advertising it. I noticed that GLND/SMC was not listed as one of the sponsors. Indeed, nowhere did "GLND/SMC" appear on the poster. When I inquired about this peculiarity, I was told by my hosts that GLND/SMC is prohibited, by the Notre Dame adminis­tration, from reserving rooms, spon­soring events, or listing its name on any posted literature at the university. Additionally, GLND/SMC is under the sincere (but I hope mistaken) impression that The Observer will no longer run advertisements for GLND/SMC events because of pressure from the Notre Dame administration after The Observer ran an ad for a GLND/SMC event earlier this year. 
I gather that, in defense of denying GLND/SMC official recognition, the Notre Dame administration would invoke the traditional Homan Catholic hostility toward same-sex relations. I do not agree with that argument, and question its sincerity. After all, does Notre Dame, in keeping with Catholic social teaching, compel its HOTC program expressly to renounce the use of nuclear weapons against civilian population centers? Or require its Business School to abjure consumerism and teach that all workers must be paid a living family wage? Nevertheless, I will not argue the administration's rational here. 
Bather, I note that, while withholding official recognition or endorsement, Georgetown and Fordham Universities allow their gay student organizations not only to use university facilities and sponsor and publicize events, but also provide their gay student groups with mailboxes, meeting rooms, and the other material support afforded officially recognized student groups. 
Even if Notre Dame cannot bring itself to be as accommodating as Georgetown or Fordham, surely it can allow GLND/SMC. as an organization, to spon­sor speakers, reserve rooms, advertise events, and generally carry on the ratio­nal public discourse that is at the heart of a universitY's educational mission. Quite frankly, every member of the Notre Dame family -that is the metaphor Notre Dame has chosen to describe itself, isn't it -ought to be ashamed that his or her gay sisters and brothers are denied approval for some­thing as meager as posting an­nouncements for a lecture. 
Where is Notre Dame's commitment to open intellectual inquiry? Where is the chorus of protest from the faculty over so blatant a violation of academic free­dom? Or is it that the faculty believes that academic freedom is something that exists only in classrooms and is reserved only to itself? 
Which brings me back to Tom Dooley. 
I wonder how much of the self-hated and torment, about his sexual orienta­tion, that affiicted Dooley was learned at Notre Dame. And how many other Notre Dame students, even now, are being taught to hate or demean them­selves simply because they are drawn to romantic love for people of the same gender? I suppose those questions are, in a precise way, unanswerable. 
Nonetheless, I hope that one day Notre Dame will acknowledge and embrace its gay students. faculty, and staff. Until that day comes, however, I expect that, if only as a matter of intellectual self­respect, Notre Dame's administration will allow GLND/SMC too reserve rooms and post sign for lectures and discussion about issues dealing with gay people. 
On the fly-leaf of Shilts' Conduct Unbecoming are Jefferson's words from the Virginia Statute of Heligious Freedom: "Truth is great and will pre­vail if left to herself." If Notm Dame's administration is confident of the truth of the Homan Catholic position on homo­sexuality, then what has it to fear from a group of students organizing lectures or putting up a few posters? 
Let robust ad open speech be the rule, and the truth will prevail -the truth that exorcises phantoms and sets people free. 
PETER CICCHINO Coordinator, Lesbian & Gay Youth Project Legal Action Cemer for the Homeless 

ACCE,NT· ­
Thursday, December 8, 1994 page 11 

Di2able Planets head fOP CD~s of ~94 in review 
By ROB ADAMS Music Critic 
It's been a strange year for modern music to say the least. Any year that features a con­cert at Woodstock, a new life for vinyl, the resurgence of punk, and a rapper over 30 having his first hit record is one for the memoirs. In the mean­time, a wondrous variety of music was released. The fol­lowing list contains my picks for the top ten CO's of 1994. 
1. Digable Planets-Blowout 
Comb 
Butterfly's "I got the platinum voice, like syrup" rings as the truest lyric of the year. Take away their bass-heavy grooves, wavy vibe patterns. and jazzy beats, and Digable Planets eould still eonstruct a great hip­hop album; they could make rhyming sound good a capella. Any time either Butterfly, C­Know, or Mecca touehes the mic, the result is a twist of the English language no one else eould come up with. Blowout Comb adopts a much more nationalistic view than their debut, and this has intimidated more than just a few ears. However. upon focusing on the two albums, the transition seems as natural and necessary as it did for the first two albums by De La Soul, Three Feet High and Rising to De La Soul is Dead. This album is still jazzy, but it doesn't depend on as 
much old jazz as the debut did. Despite all the sound trickery, echo chambers, and unpre­dictable sways, there is no doubt that the three MC's are in complete control. So in control are they, in fact, that I feel a stiff pride for Brooklyn every time they pay homage to their home and I've never even been there. Blowout Comb is des­tined to become a hip-hop clas­sic and has made Digables the current kings of New York. 
2. Paul Weller-Wild Wood 
After a stellar career with two groundbreaking bands, the Jam and the Style Council, you'd think that Paul Weller would hang up his instruments and settle down. But he hasn't. In the past two years, he has cre­ated the best two albums of his life. This year's Wild Wood picks up where 1992's self­titled album left off, perfecting his interpretation of grassroots live instrument r&b. From the soulful urgency of "Sunflower," to the tender acoustic balladry of "Wild Wood," to the Ray Charles-inspired "5th Season," Weller has called on all his early influences for this effort. When he sings, "I know a place not far from here/Where life's sweet perfume fills the air," on "Country" you can imagine his music being played wherever this place is. Four cleverly­placed instrumentals separate the album into five relevant sections. 

• 
3. Public Enemy-Muse Sick N Hour Mess Age 
It's time to dismiss those who see Chuck D's position a:s the "wise man" of hip-hop as Public Enemy's downfall. Their mes­sage is just as urgent as it was six years ago and has become even fresher. Chuck has the best backup support any rap act has ever had with Flavor Flav providing lyrical support and Terminator X packing the beats. Their first true trip into experi­menting with live instruments worked magically as did their emphasis on funky basslines and rhythms. "Whole Lotta Love Goin on in the Middle of Hell," "Theatrical Parts," and "Give it Up," tracks one through three on the disc are the best eight consecutive minutes of music made this year. 
4. The Charlatans-Up to our Hips 
In 1994 the Charlatans creat­ed one of the most eclectic, enigmatic, and brilliant pop albums ever. The sound is crisp and Tim Burgess reaches any and all vocal heights from the high, poignant notes on "Jesus Hairdo" to the low mur­murs on "Patrol." On Hips, their third album, the Charlatans have finally stopped concentrating on what they are rather than what they are sup­posed to be. Unlike other Manchester stalwarts such as Happy Mondays and Inspiral Carpets, the Charlatans did not reach their peak when Manchester's music scene did, creating slow-motion psyche­delia to mesh perfectly with their driving rhythms. 
5. Beastie Boys­
Ill Communication 
As the dog barks and the excited vocals convene, you realize that you could only be listening to a Beastie Boys album. Ill Communication, their fourth effort since they became a predominately hip­hop band, their furious mix of musical genres reaches a new peak. The best lyrics are fea­tured on "Sure Shot," the best groove is featured on "Root Down," the best punk jam is "Heart Attack Man," and the best instrumental is "Shambala." I'd have to dis­agree with the claim that this was a year that hip-hop sup­posedly stood still and the best sounds supposedly came from the west coast, as many people can be heard saying. 
6. Brand New Heavies­
Brother Sister 
If you were to take every aspect of funk and play around with it, letting loose every pos­sible variety of its rhythm, you'd probably come up with something close to the latest release from the Brand New Heavies. The disco spin is found on "Spend Some Time," the smooth tones of "Dream on Dreamer," and the groove anthem "Have a Good Time" are all masterpieces of the genre. Of course their music is almost pointless without the gorgeous voice of N'Dea Davenport behind it. 
7. B-Tribe-Fiesta Fatal 
After Enigma paved the way for surreal, dramatic samples to be placed onto dance beats, bands like B-Tribe can carve their own special niche into the music. Mixing Spanish flamen­co chants, soulful guitar strum­ming, and momentous hand­clapping with hip-hop and tech­no beats, B-Tribe has created a dance and/or melancholy mas­terpiece. 
8. Portishead-Dummy 
Welcome to the fir'st gothic acid jazz album. Portishead's ethereal, dreamy vocals made deeper through brooding bass may paint a dark landscape, but they make for a beautiful album. 
9. The Veldt-Afrodisiac 
This North Carolina foursome create avant-garde rock-n-roll with a dramatic message for self-improvement. 
10. The Mexakinz-Zig Zag 
These two underground MC's utilize crazy vocal stylings over fat beats, quickly switching from English to Spanish with unapologetic glee. 

ND Graduate reflects on her role in Saint Mary's Sesquicentennial 
By LESLIE FIELD 
Accent Writer 
Every now and then, you meet an indi­vidual who redefines the word leader; someone who possesses the commitment and passion that it takes to succeed. Maureen Manier has that passion as the Executive Coordinator of the Saint Mary's Sesquicentennial Committee. 
Over the past year, the Saint Mary's campus has been adorned with the now famous 150 year logo depicting the LeMans tower surrounded by the billow­ing trees that have been growing with Saint Mary's as it has grown over the past country and a half. With this logo has eome inspiring speakers, beautiful masses, and a heart warming children's festival, a historical commencement. 
In 1991, the steering committee, headed by Dean of Faculty Dr. Dorothy Feigl, began their preliminary work on the events for the 1993-94 year. Feigl recruited Maureen to start setting bud­gets to contacting speakers from around the country to setting up intricate exhibits. 
Feigl has served as her mentor to help her with what she was working on, most importantly, her interpersonal skills. 
Maureen is a writer and editor. She graduated from Notre Dame in 1981 as an English major and now is head of Public Relations at Saint Mary's. 
"This project has made me think of myself as able to play more roles and work on weaknesses. You need to be detailed, thorough, and diplomatic," she said. 
Maureen said it has been good for her ten year old son to see a woman in this sort of leadership role. 
Maureen's typical day is comparable to that of any President, CEO or maybe even Kathie Lee Gifford. She hasn't had normal working hours since she began work on the Sesquicentennial. 
"I believe that Saint Mary's is the best school of its kind in the country. 150 years is a wonderful accomplish­ment. It is such a deserving place for an appropriate anniversary celebration," she expressed. 
With speakers like Wendy Wasserstein. Kathleen Jameson and Agnes Nixon and groups like the South Bend Symphony here to celebrate 150 years with Saint Mary's, it is no wonder why the events were so well attended and the spirit on campus has been so energized by all of these inspiring peo­ple. 
The event that was dearest to Maureen's heart was the Children's Storybook Festival that took place last semester. It gave the entire Saint Mary's and South Bend community the opportunity to come together and share books through fun and highly creative ways. 
"I feel so strongly about the role that reading plays in education.. .it is truly the corner stone of learning. I remem­ber seeing a little boy in a corner happi­ly reading a book and how excited I was. That was exactly what I wanted to see. It was a very emotional day and had a great impact on the community," she said. 
Maureen had the opportunity to work closely with Terry Kosik, head of early childhood development, on the project as well as several students. "I was able to work with such a cross section of women. I was so inspired with the Saint Mary's women I worked with. They were so dedicated and reliable," she said. 
But not everything always went according to plan. The highly publicized cancellation of Maya Angelou's Sesquicentennial visit was looked upon by some as a glitch in the year's celebra­tion. "You do everything you can to make things succeed and not everything is always going to work out," she said. 
Maureen has shown how strong the traditions of Saint Mary's are and how fortunate the women of Saint Mary's are to attend this premier college of 150 years. 
"Everyone's surprised to hear me say this, but I will miss the excitement and diversity in the events. My overwhelm­ing feeling is one of great satisfaction and pride," she said. 
.. 

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, December 8, 1994 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 

Jayhawks remain unbeaten, beat No.6 Gators 81-75 
Associated Press 
In a four-day flurry, Kansas beat No. 1, whipped No. 6 and convinced Greg Ostertag that "this team could be pretty good." 
"This is cool," the 7-foot-2 center said Wednesday night after tying a school record with eight blocked shots in the fourth-ranked Jayhawks' 69-63 victory over No. 6 Florida. "It shows we are a good team and we're going to be a team to reckon with come tournament time in March." 
The Jayhawks (4-0), who beat then-No. 1 Massachusetts 81-75 on Saturday, led the Gators (3­
1) 29-25 at halftime and quickly ran up a 36-25 bulge with Sean Pearson's 3-pointer, Jerod 
Haase's  driving layup  and  
Jacque  Vaughn's  10-foot  
jumper.  

Florida (3-1) never got closer than five. 
Ostertag, a senior who broke the school record with 97 blocks last year, had five in the first half. 
"Greg was a force inside," Kansas coach Hoy Williams said. 
The Gators, who return four starters from last season's Final Four team, did not get a point from their guards until Dan Cross drilled a 12-footer to make it 38-30 early in the sec­ond half. 
Until then, Gator guards were 0-for-14 as most of the scoring fell to Andrew DeClercq, who had 20 points and 14 rebounds as he broke his own school record by playing in his 102nd consecutive game. 
Cross had 25 points, all but two in the second half. 
Pearson and Vaughn opened the game with 3-pointers and Kansas, the preseason Big Eight favorite, led by as many as eight in the early going but fell into a scoring drought when Vaughn, a sophomore point guard, went to the bench for a rest. lie finished with 11 points and seven a!>sists. 
No 5. UMass 85, Pitt. 57 
For one pleasant night in a grueling early season schedule, Massachusetts could cruise to an easy win. Now it's back to work. 
The fifth-ranked Minutemen (2-1) routed error-plagued Pittsburgh 85-57 Wednesday night in their first game since losing the No. 1 national rank­ing. Next up is No. 11 Maryland, their third ranked opponent in four games. 

"We needed to get back in there and get this Rind of game," Massachusetts coach John Calipari said. "I don't know who made this schedule. We got Maryland Saturday. It doesn't get any easier." 
Lou Hoe and Mike Williams scored 13 points each for the Minutemen, who used all 15 players and got points from 12. Pittsburgh (1-3). one of the weakest teams in the Big East, was led by Chad Varga with 20 points, while Jason Maile added 17. 
"Physically, they're much bet­ter than we were," Panthers coach Halph Willard said. "We don't have the depth right now or the athletes to play a team like UMass." 
Massachusetts' season-open­ing win over defending national champion Arkansas, then ranked No.1, moved them from third to first in the poll. But a loss to then-No. 7 Kansas dropped them to fifth. 
'"I look at my bench and I have no options," said Willard, who used four starters for more than 30 minutes each. Hoe led Massachusetts with 27 minutes. 
"We needed to play a game where we got a lot of people minutes," Calipari said. 
Pittsburgh came no closer 
than 25 points in the second half. Massachusetts' biggest lead of the game was 55-21 on a free throw by Camby with 
15:57 left. The numbers show the extent of the Minutemen's domination. 
Massachusetts had 27 offen­sive rebounds, compared to 28 total rebounds for Pittsburgh. The Panthers had three more turnovers than field goals. Massachusetts had 51 re­bounds, led by Hoe's 12, and 11 blocks, led by Camby's five. Varga had 12 rebounds for Pittsburgh. 
But Roe wasn't the force he was in the first two games, when he averaged 33.5 points. He was just 3-for-11 from the field. 
"I thought we did an excel­lent job on Roe," Willard said. "We took him out of the game." 
No. 7 Kentucky, Indiana 70 
Walter McCarty hit a 3-point­er with 1:37 left Wednesday night to spark No. 7 Kentucky to a 73-70 victory over Indiana, which never recovered from a delay of game technical foul with 4:02 to play. 
Neil Reed's layup gave Indiana (2-4) a 64-62 lead, but he was called for the technical when he swatted the ball out of bounds. 
Anthony Epps made the two free throws off the technical to tie the game. McCarty was fouled by Alan Henderson 10 seconds later and made both free throws to give Kentucky (3­
1) a 66-64 lead. The game was tied only once more. 
Reed made two free throws and Henderson one to bring the Hoosiers within 70-69, but McCarty then hit his 3 from the right corner. 
Indiana had three chances to tie in the final 30 seconds but Heed had a 3 blocked by Antoine Walker with 25.5 left, Brian Evans missed a 3 five seconds later, and Heed missed another 3 just before the final horn. 
The last time Indiana started a season 2-4 was 1965-66. 
McCarty led Kentucky with 16 points, while Tony Delk had 11 and Rodrick Hhodes and Walker 10 each. The Wildcats made just 28 of 72 shots (39 percent), including seven of 28 from 3-point range. 
Evans and Reed had 17 points each while Henderson added 16 and Andrae Patterson 10. The Hoosiers made 27 of 60 shots (45 percent) and were 2-for-9 from 3-point range. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

COFFEEHOUSE LOVERS UNITE  Your House for Spring semester is  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  Quality Copies, Quickly! II  anyone need a ride to long  
NOTICES  great music, great coffee (free), and great people. Come meet new peo­ available now! Completely remod­eled 3-4 bdrm 2 BLOCKS from  at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center  island/nyc area for break-call mike 271-9471  
ple and relax to soothing music and  campus. Full basement , all new  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  Phone 631-COPY  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS  entertaining readings.  appliances, and monitored security  ground level. Lease back to owner  ..........AUDITIONS!!!'"''""'  
10·6 m-sat pandora's books  Have you seen who's playing see  system included! Single rooms or  through May, 1995.  Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  AS YOU LIKE IT  
NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat  the personals .. ??? 1-7757  entire place available.  Call (616) 946-0700.  Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  Wed and Thurs., Dec. 7 and 8  
233-2342 coot stuff cool store  9:00 PM the Huddle. Tonight!!!  Call Mike@ 233-9609 todayl  1 (800)359-9808  7-9 pm, 115 O'Shag  
BE THERE Ill  AT&T WORD PROCESSOR  
SHENANIGANS  room for rent 2 blocks from the  4 SALE  SOPHOMORE MALE SEEKS  Take time out of your busy  
Christmas Concert  '''''''""PLEASE HELP!"""""  campus.on ivy rd,nice place, I need  X1913  OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FOR  Thursday night to come and heckle  
SAT., DEC. 10  I.J:lesparately need a ride to NY.  the money desperately.  SPRING SEMESTER. CALL SEAN  these guys as they perform their  
7:00P.M. Washington Hall  Orange/Westchester/Rockland ­ call272-2163 200$ a mo.  703-931-6864 OR PAGE ME AT 1­ hearts out live on stage:  
FREE ADMISSION  Upper-NJ -West Point area  Child Craft crib 'n bed with mat­ 800-706-3255.  RYAN SCHWARTZ  
tix avail. at Lafortune info. desk  Will pay. Leaving pref afternoon of  PLEASE we need a female  tress, $250.  JOE CANNON  
12119 or later. Brian x1 058  roommate, only $210/mo.  Walnut dining room table  AARON DUNN  
SENIORS SENIORS  272-1538  w/4upholstered chairs,$300.  HEY -DON'T BE A SCROOGE Ill  BRENDAN BAYLISS  
Oak kitchen table w/6 chairs, $300.  Wish your friends a nifty holiday  ADAM GICKS  
PICK UP WEEKLY BULLETIN  I am driving back to Houston alter  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL­ Color TV, $25.  season with an Observer personal.  BACK, BACK, FORTH, FORTH  
FOR FIRST TWO WEEKS OF  Finals and could use another  ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES  Kenmore range, $250.  The final paper of the semester is  AND TO THE SIDE  
SPRING RECRUITING-SUBMIT  drver or two. If interested, please  272-6306  272-8219 (home)  Friday, Dec. 9, and the deadline to  DOUGLAS METZ  
RESUMES NO LATER THAN  call GR at x2104 or Dave at x2107.  1-8313 (work)  put in a classified ad is 3pm,  GEORGE AND THE FREEKS  
DECEMBER 8 AT CAREER AND  TODAY.  Can you hold your own with these  
PLACEMENT SERVICES  ATIENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF­ Bed 'N Breakfast Registry ­ POWERBOOK 140.  Good luck on finals!!  guys? there's still room, so call  
ILOST & FOUND I  MOTIVATED Students. The ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is currently interviewing students for  Private Homes JPW, Graduation 219-291-7153  $1 ,600 or B/0. Call Aude 631-0254.  kate x4828 for a slot. Free coffee. Free fun. The Acoustic Cafe  
LOST: This is ridiculous. but some­ Summer '95 management posi­tions. Earn money in excess of •  Sublet 2BR Townhouse at TURTLE  TICKETS  The Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert.  9pm tonight in the Huddle Brought to you by SUB and  
how my coat was switched with  $10,000. Call now, 1-800-477-1001  CREEK Next Semester!  Saturday, December 10  THE GREAT PAPAYA!  
another woman's coat at the Grace  for a campus representative.  @Dayne X1945  8:15pm. JACC Gate 10  
formal last semester in April at  Buy/sell FIESTA BOWL tickets.  a doctor playing w/ too many  
Union Station. It was a black  WANTED PARTIIME LAB TECH  Univ Village 2bdrm  Great seats available. We buy and  admission $2 • all proceeds bene­ patients, too many shots for the  
Ashley Scott long dress coat. If you  WITH CG EXP. SEND RESUME  12/14/94-1/26/95 273-2923  sell concerts, sports, & theatre tick­ fiting the South Bend  foreman, akg claiming the best ath­ 
think you may have the wrong coat,  TO:  ets. VISA, M/C, AMEX. Ticket  Center for the Homeless •  lete ever, egg mcmuffins for mr  
let me know. Liz x1277  BOX 4103 SOUTH BEND IN 46634  FOR SALE  Exchange Inc. since 1981 800-800­9811  Tickets available at the LaFortune  crazy, mr switzerland befriending all, 13 hrs of conscientoius sleep  
LOSTI  Information Desk, the Haggar  never justified, too many bugs in  
If anyone has found a pair of per­ Starting at $12/hrf The Princeton  Spring Break Early Specials!  FIEST A BOWL TICKETS  College Center Information Desk,  the woods, night terrors 101. lets  
scription glasses, I could really use  Review is looking for people to  Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12  GOOD SEATS  the JACC Ticket Office, and the  just all be friends  
them. They are golden framed and  teach our test preparation courses.  meals $279! Panama City  Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office.  
have no nose pads. The perscrip­tion is really, really strong. If found  If you've earned a high score on the GMAT, MCAT or GRE and would  Oceanview Kitchens $1291 Cancun & Jamaica $399! Daytona $159!  PERSONAL  Come by Cactus Jack's and see  NEED A RIDE TO SOUTHERN NEW YORK AREA OVER BREAK?  
call Mike at 634-3597.  like to work 6-1 Ohrs in the evenings  Keys $229! CocoaBeach $1591 1­ what's brewing. Visit the Cantina  CALL PATTY-4072  
and on weekends, contact us at:  800-678-6386  Yeah Lewis 4W  and shoot some pool, or watch the  
Did you find a silver cross pen in  (800)865-7737.  game. Bring in todays Observer  Happy late B-day Katie  
the Library? It has great sentimen­ EA HOCKEY for IBM  Some very hot women live in Lewis  and receive $1.50 off any pur­ 
tal value and I would really like it  HOUSEMATE NEEDED $110/mo +  4W  chase. Expires today.  Where are the sheep???  
back. Call 634-2665. No questions  ulils-own bdrm-5 blcks frm cmps  1994 players with trades, etc ...  Love, peace, and tacos I  
..  asked.  289-3790 alter 7pm  almost brand new, has all books and the registration form .  Things you always wanted to know  I like cold beverages, put it in the fridge.  
FOUND: Fleece lined handmade  I need many SEX KILLS's for  best offer; call Tom at 4-1712  about PLS but were too afraid to  SPRING BREAK, SAILING  
mittens. Stop by 104 O'Shag.  XMAS X1167  ask..  BAHAMAS ON LUXURY YACHTS  Morgs,  
Super Sharp 3 Bdrm. Approx 3/10  What do'es "PLS" really stand for?  Seven Day Island Adventure. All  Merry Christmas to you. I need a  
FOUND -A brown leather bomber jacket, LL Bean, size 42L. Call  FOR RENT  mi S. of N.D.@ 1018 N. Eddy. Why waste rent, build equity. Low $30's.  1. Probably Law School 2. Pretentious Little Sh-s  Inclusive with Cabin & Meals, $498 Ea. Groups of 6.  new highlighter. Bud  
Spak at 277-9280 if it's yours.  Call for showing! 271-8100  3. Please Let us Smoke  1·800-999-SAIL (7245).  
NEAR CAMPUS  Steve Weldy-ERA Brokers Assoc.  4. Probably Loves Socrates  #######################  
..  WANTED  HOMES FOR RENT 95-96 SCHOOL YR 232 2595  1986 HYUNDA EXCEL FOR SALE GOOD STEREO $750 CALL ROD  Thank you Holy Spirit, St. Jude, & St. Rita.  SENIORS SENIORS PICK UP WEEKLY BULLETIN FOR FIRST TWO WEEKS OF  Up late Thursday night?  
NEED HELP: FEMALE N.D.  @ 2397924  SPRING RECRUITING-SUBMIT  Tune in to ...  
GRADUATE OR LAW STUDENT  Looking for a roommate in Castle  Happy Birthday Gina!  RESUMES NO LA TEA THAN  
TO HOUSE SIT WITH 17-YEAR  Point. $ 280 + utilities, 272·1663  For sale: Amstrad PC. New 50 MG  Love, Am. 421.  DECEMBER 8 AT CAREER AND  CHRISTMAS NOCTURNE!II  
OLD FEMALE. APPROX. 6 DAYS  hard drive. Mouse, monochrome  PLACEMENT SERVICES.  Your favorite Christmas songs  
PER MONTH BEGINNING MID  WANTED: 5 students for beautifully  screen. WordPerfect installed. Two  'Attention Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual,  by random bands will be played,  
JANUARY. CALL 219-277-5762  remodeled home-Huge yard with  5 1/4" disk drives; 3 1/2" adaptor  and questioning people' The last  SABOR LATINO  courtesy of Paul and Katie.  
oversized deck, security system,  available. $250. 234-4939.  support group of the semester will  
Need ride to Long Island for  washer, dryer. 5 blocks from main  meet tonight at 7:30 in Am. 300 of  Friday, Dec. 9 10 pm  Nocturne. WSND 88.9FM  
X-mas break, will pay expenses  circle. Available NOW for 2nd  For Sale: two stereo speakers.  the U. Counseling Center Call the  Club 23  
call Sean @ 277-7131  semester. 277-0636  $10 each. Call Liz x1277  0-line 287-6665 Iarmore info.  SABOR LATINO  ######################  


Thursday, December 8, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• SAINT MARY'S 
Foresters beat Belles Swimmers show improvement 

NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
SPECIAL HOLIDAY HOURS: MONDAY· FRIDAY 9:00AM· 4:00PM CLOSED AT 1:00PM ON DEC. 20 PARK ON LYON'S BASKETBALL COURTS IF ON CAMPUS 
NO OTHER DISCOUNTS APPLY 



RECRUITING DATES: February 1, 2 and 3 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT 
~ 

·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT •24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
232-8256 
• 

By ARWEN DICKEY Sports Writer 
Getting out-hustled was key to Saint Mary's 78-62 loss against Lake Forest College last Tuesday night. 
The 2-5 Belles started out strong in the first half against the physical and aggressive 4-3 Lady Foresters. Making 11 out of 12 freethrows helped Saint Mary's go into halftime with a 37-32 lead. 
The game started going downhill in the beginning of the second half with three turnovers by the Belles which resulted in a basket and two three-pointers by Lake Forest. The Lady Foresters killed Saint Mary's on the boards, 55-39. 
There were some high points for the Belles though. Junior Jennie Taubenheim was the top 
GIGANTIC 
END OF SEASON SALE 
rebounder with seven and ju­nior Lori Gaddis had six assists in the game for Saint Mary's. 
Although the team only shot 36 percent, Taubenheim led the scoring effort with 17 points followed by three other Belles in double figures. Junior Barbara Howells scored 13, freshman Julie McGill had 12 and sophomore Katy Lalli fin­ished with 10. 
"We need improvement in several areas such as execution of offense and shooting," said head coach Marvin Wood, "We also need to become more ag­gressive and physical in our play." 
Sophomore Sarah Kopperud said, "In the second half we let their defense take over. We made passes we should not have because we were impa­tient." 

By JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Entering the Rolf's Aquatic Center one would be sur­rounded by women in blue suits screaming and encouraging their team members onto vic­tory. 
The Saint Mary's Swimming and Diving team might not have won in points at yesterday's meet against Albion College, but they definitely won in indi­vidual times. 
"There is no stopping this team," said Katie Rose. "We constantly keep improving." 
Unfortunately, yesterday's meet was the last of the season for Rose. She will be studying Marine Biology at Duke next semester. Rose had a very strong meet against Albion, she timed very close to her per-


Question 
The 

Kno-vvledge 
AfilM ~y J~HN mNBlH~N 
~m~[~ l[A~NIN~ 
L~lUM~IA riLlURf~ ~RmfNm ANfW ~fAl ~R~DUClmN AmM ov J~HN mNBlH~N 'HIBHfR UARNINB' HARRIN~ JfNNiffR L~NNHlyILf LU~f ~MAR frr~ MILHAfl RArAr~Rl KRmlY ~WAN~~N mlAURfNLf fmH~URNf MU~~~~l ANlfY LlARKf cH~~~uc!i ~WIBHl Al~Nm WilliAM~ m~uc:i J~HN mNBlH~N ANn rAUl HAll w~~~m~m J~HN mNBlH~N 
ISOUND! RACK ON fPIC SOUNOIRAX I II •.::::::!" IRI ·~ • I COLUMBIA[j]
-~~:=:-• !'J£.I!!BJ_~-­
At Theatres Soon 
sonal best with 2:23.16 in the 200 individual medley , broke her season individual record with 2:21.47 in the 200 back, and had 26.5 in her 50 split in the 200 relay. 
"This was a excellent meet for me," said Rose. "I really wanted to do well in the 200 free relay, and we won it." 
Not to mention her 50 meter split was her fastest time of the season. 
Outstanding freshman Allison Smith broke two of her own school records. First, she broke her season best in the 200 free (2.00.46), then she made a con­sideration time for the NCAA championships in the 500 free (5:13.82). 
"I am happy with the way I am swimming this season," said Rose. "I think the whole team is swimming extremely well." 
Natalie Cheeseman, Sara Gillen, Lauren Winterfield, Shannon Kelleher, and Jen Dyjak are the rest of the Belles that swam their fastest times. 
"I couldn't believe my fly time 
dropped two seconds," Kelleher 
said. "It was really a good meet 
for a lot of us." 
You may ask, if Saint Mary's 
swam so well how could they 
possibly lose? Well, Albion's 
coach Keith Havens rearranged 
his line up in order to avoid 
some of Saint Mary's stronger swimmers. 
"Our strategy worked," said Havens. " It was a very close match in talent as well as points. I was highly impressed by the athletes at Saint Mary's." 
The final score in the meet was Albion 131, Saint Mary's 
104. Last year the Belles were defeated by fifty-three points, and this year they closed the gap to 26. 
"Our main goal from the start of the season to the end of the season is constantly improving ourselves," coach Greg Janson said. "In those terms it was a really successful meet." 
Due to injuries only one diver, Ann Halloran, dove in yester­day's meet. If Saint Mary's other two divers would have been able to dive, they would have gained an estimated fif­teen points, according to coach Greg Janson. Halloran alone gained twenty-one points for the Belles. 
"These women work harder then any other team I have coached or have been affiliated with," said Janson. 
The Belles will have a months 
rest  until  their  next  meet  
against  University  of  
Indianapolis.  

"This meet was a good way to leave off and move to second semester," said captain Tara Krull. 

- Thursday, December 8, 1994page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Junior setter Shannon Tuttle, who•NBA works much with Lee on the court.Lee "She's a great athlete who has a lot of continued from page 20 skill."Cavs experience 'Shaq Fu' Tuttle also credits Lee with a coopera­adjust to a new position. tive attitude that is exemplary of this Associa1ed Press ence." "One of the biggest adjustments is year's team.O'Neal had only 6 points in the last 12 changing positions," said Lee at the "She works with me, and wheneverThe Orlando Magic didn't know minutes, but all were vital as Orlando beginning of the season. I'm down or frustrated, she helps mewhether to blame the NBA's schedule­pulled away from 65-62 advantage. Nick An outside attacker in high school, she stay in the game," said Tuttle. maker or the Cleveland Cavaliers. Anderson made a pair of 3-pointers in was called on to play middle blocker this "We work to keep each other's heads"It was an ugly game," Shaquille the final minute to finish with 17. year, a position which requires much up."O'Neal said after scoring 33 points and Chris Mills led Cleveland with 14 composure at the net. In addition to hit­Lee, along with Harris, was one of two grabbing 10 rebounds to pace a 90-75 points. John Williams and Tony ting the ball, the middle blocker is the freshmen to earn a starting position invictory Wednesday night, the Magic's Campbell each had 12, while Mark Price key defensive weapon. She must work the pre-season. She is tied with sopho­second over the Cavs in 24 hours. was held to 6 on 2-for-12 shooting. Price with the setter to stop opponents' kill more outside hitter Jenny Birkner forAfter giving up a season-high 114 in a also had six turnovers. attempts. an essential component to a the most games played with 112. She17-point loss Tuesday night, Cleveland "They did a great job of controlling victory in college volleyball. was named to the Midwestern Collegiate slowed the tempo and held the NBA's the tempo right from the outset -and It is an especially difficult transition Conference All-Newcomer team. Shehighest-scoring team to its lowest point that's what they've been able to do for Lee when her heart is in the position leads the Irish in block assists with 95total of the season. against everybody all year," said of the outside hitter. and total blocks with 107. She is fourth But the 75 Orlando allowed also were Orlando coach Brian Hill. "That was one ''I'm just so happy that the team is in kills with 250, total attacks with 611,a season-low for the Magic, which broke thing we were able to avoid (Tuesday doing so well," said Lee. "Even if means and digs with 232. the game open with a 10-0 run that night) because we passed the ball so putting my own needs aside." More important than all of Lee's per­gave them an 80-65 lead. Anfernee well and shot the ball so well early in Lee has the ability and the inclination sonal attributes is her development as aHardaway, who had 14 points, made a the game." to play outside, but with th~ talent that player and contribution to the team.3-pointer during the surge that Anthony O'Neal carried Orlando's offense, exists on this year's team, many players "At first it seemed like there was anAvent finished with a fast-break tipin. making five of his first eight shots and have been called upon to sacrifice their age difference," said Lee of how the"Cleveland did a great job, but we going 7 -for-11 from the foul line for 17 own expectations. Irish team has emerged, "but now we allstuck in there and got a good win," points. Anderson had 9, while Hardaway "Jaimie has made a big impact on our have the same goal -making it to theO'Neal said. "We had trouble throwing went scoreless for nearly 13 minutes team. especially as a freshman," said final four." it in the ocean. That was the differ-before finishing the half with 7. FIESTA BOWL PACKAGECeltics ground Hawks, 93-80 $169.00 Associa1ed Press team." Ford said. "We have to and got a season-high 16 do it with hard work. That was rebounds. One night before. Boston sheer hustle out there tonight. "What more can I ask for •2 NIGHTS/2 PERSONS HOTEL ACCOMODATIONS coach Chris Ford had criticized The guys played great, espe­from a rookie?" Ford said. "He •FREE AIRPORT SHUTilE AND GAME TRANSPORTATION his team for lack of effort. The cially on defense." and McDanie) had 28 rebounds ~ •GAME DAY BREAKFAST BUFFET ~ Celtics responded just the way The Celtics held the Hawks to between the two of them." he wanted. 28 points in the second half and Mookie Blaylock led the Dee Brown scored 24 points outscored them 23-11 in the Hawks with a game-high 26 ~ FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ~ and Xavier McDaniel 23 as the fourth quarter. points. Stacey Augmon con­Boston Celtics overcame a 10­Boston played without Radja, tributed 16 in his 11th straight (602) 273-1211point halftime deficit and the its leading scorer and re­double-figure game. loss of Dino Radja to post a 93­bounder who broke his right "I don't know if it was RODEWAY INN-AIRPORT WEST 80 win over the Atlanta Hawks hand against the Knicks in New fatigue, but we didn't execute on Wednesday night. York Tuesday. Taking up the anything in the second half," "We're not an overpowering slack was rookie center Eric Hawks coach Lenny Wilkens $26.00 EACH ADDITIONAL PERSON/MAX 4 PERSONS PER ROOM team nor are we a finesse Montross, who scored 16 points said. NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER  
Congratulations for coming to the Fiesta bowl Good Luck!  
I I  •  I ' The Southwest Professional Rodeo Association Finals At Westworld Equidome December 30th at 7:00PM December 31st at 2:00PM & 7:00PM with "dancin' in the dirt" following the evening performance! Dance New Year's Eve 9:30-1:00AM Tickets for afternoon $7 $10 includes dance with live music (Children under 12 are free) In Scottsdale at the comer ofPima & Frank Lloyd Wright For more information call: (602) 814-0027  

Thursday, December 8, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
•NFL 
Moon has nightmares Monk to catch Largent 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. 

For Warren Moon, there are no fond memories of Buffalo. There have been only losses -five of them -including the worst collapse in NFL history. 
That was in the 1992 playoffs, when Moon's Houston Oilers blew a 35-3 third-quarter lead and lost 41-38 in overtime. Moon has been baok once since, and the Bills pounded the Oilers 35-7 last season. 
He gets another chance at windy, noisy Rich Stadium on Sunday, when the Minnesota Vikings visit the Bills in a game important to both teams' playoff chances. 
"It's hard to win in Buffalo, which I feel is the toughest place to play in the league," Moon said Wednesday. "Because of their crowd and because of the fact that you don't know what the weather's going to be like and you're playing against a pretty good football team. 
"I definitely w.ant to go up there and win one." 
During 15 minutes with reporters, Moon was asked four times about the '92 playoff debacle. 
"I don't think I'll ever forget it," he said. What was he thinking during Buffalo's comeback? 
"I just wanted to get the ball back," he said. "They kept scoring and getting the ball back, and our whole offense was just sitting on the sidelines for about 45 minutes getting cold." 
How did he react to Steve Christie's 
winning kick? 
"I didn't even want to watch the 
kick," he racelled. "I was just listening 
for the crowd reaction. Once I saw the 
crowd reaction I just walked off the 
field." 
It wasn't Moon's fault. 

He completed 36 of 50 passes for 371 yards and four touchdowns, with two interceptions. But he will be forever linked to one of the most memorable games in NFL history. 
So will Buffalo coach Marv Levy. 

"Of the games that I've coached, I can usually say, 'This was like the game eight years ago against so-and-so,' but not that one. That one is unique unto itself," Levy said. "To come back and win it was just a glorious feeling to be able to do it, no question. It ranks sepa­rate for any game that I've ever been involved with." 
It's just one of Moon's nightmares in Buffalo. 
He lost 20-0 in his first visit in 1985. He has lost two playoff games, including a 17-10 game in 1988, the first playoff game ever at Rich Stadium. 
The most difficult part of playing in Buffalo, Moon said, is the boisterous srowd. 
Western New York has a love affair with the Bills unmatched almost any­where in the country. The only other big-league team in town is the NHL Sabres, and they always are overlooked until football season ends. 
This year, they are not playing because of the NHL lockout. 
With the Bills (7-6) fighting for their playoff lives after four consecutive AFC championships, the Vikings (8-5), tied for first with Chicago in the NFC Central, know Rich Stadium will be rowdy Sunday. 
"I can describe the crowd to every­body, but until they experience it and see it, they still won't believe me," Moon said. 
By HAL BOCK 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 
Sometime on Saturday, Art Monk of the New York Jets will catch a pass for the 178th consecutive game and own one of the NFL's most prestigious records. 
Take it from Monk, though. It will be strictly temporary. Just like it was tem­porary for Steve Largent, who had the record at 177. Just like it was tempo­rary for Harold Carmichael, who had it before Largent. 
"I don't consider it my record," Monk said after practice Wednesday. ''I'm just borrowing it for a time. I'm taking it from Largent. Others will come along and take it from me." 
Monk, a low-key veteran in his 15th· NFL season, is the antithesis of the trash-talking hotshots who operate around the league these days. He prefers to go about his business quietly. This record has caught his attention, though. 
''I'm excited about it," he said. ''I'm not the kind of guy who shows emotion. I'm emotional within. 
"It means a lot because of who I'm taking it from. Largent was a great ath­lete and a great wide receiver who accomplished a lot. He was a man of character, a man of integrity, a man who didn't get caught up in the things of this world. We share those things in common." 
Monk sounds like the campaign chair­man for Largent, soon to be a freshman congressman from Oklahoma. The Jets are arranging to hav() him at the game against Detroit for the record-breaker. 
Monk said he was proudest of the con­sistency that the record represents. ''I've been blessed and fortunate to 
play in a system geared to get me the ball," he said. 
Sometimes, the system took its time about working. A year ago, in his final season with Washington, Monk thought the record might be in jeopardy in a game against the Los Angeles Rams. 
"We got into the fourth quarter," he said. "I was alternating with another wide receiver. It looked dim for getting me the ball." 
Eventually, a little 5-yard pattern got the job done. In two other games last season, at Tampa Bay and at Dallas, Monk was limited to a single catch. At age 36, the Redskins were phasing him out. 
If there is anything that bothers him about the record it is that he no longer plays for Washington, where he spent 14 seasons. 
During the off-season, he signed as a free agent with the Jets and has been a vital part of their offense with 41 catch­es for 535 yards and three TDs. He has dropped one pass all year -the first one Boomer Esiason threw to him in the season opener. 
Monk recognizes there is always the chance he might not catch a pass against the Lions and the streak could end at 177. 
"That possibility has crossed my mind," he said. "I've thought how I would handle it. I'm not going into this game with the idea of breaking a record. I want to help this team win. I put the team first. That's my main goal and concern.· 
"Whatever ball I catch, I want it to be part of the normal game plan, some­thing that would happen, record or not. Just a natural play, like any other pkay call. That would make it more enjoy­able." 

OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS: South Bend Police have agreed to provide a home w~tch service for students over Christmas break. Police will check on your house or apartment up to three times a day while you are away. There is no charge for this service. 
To participate in the Home Watch Program, follow these easy steps: 
1. 
Telephone South Bend Police at 235-9201 and ask to sign up for Home Watch. 

2. 
Identify yourself as a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, or Holy Cross student. 

3. 
Tell police what day and date you are leaving and when you will return. 

4. 
Be prepared to give police a contact person and telephone number in case there is a problem at your residence. 

5. 
Be sure to notify police if you return from break early. 


In addition to Home Watch, take other steps to protect your home: 
1. 
Stop mail and newspaper delivery. 

2. 
Leave lights on a timer. Consider leaving a radio on too. 

3. 
Double check to see that all doors and windows are locked. 

4. 
Keep valuables out of sight. 

5. 
Take really valuable property home with you or store it with someone who will be here during break. 


Be smart-protect your house while you are on break! 
This ad is sponsored by Student Government, the Off-campus Presidents, and Notre Dame Security. 
. ... 
Thursday, December 8, 1994

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALl

-
Associated Press

AP selects All-American team 
·I 
·­
By RICK WARNER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Rashaan Salaam, the nation's top rusher and scorer, and passing leader Kerry Collins were selected to The Associated Press All-America college foot­ball team on Wednesday. 
Salaam, the Heisman Trophy favorite from Colorado, became the fourth Division 1-A player to gain 2,000 yards in a season and the first since Barry Sanders in 1988 to lead the country in rushing, scoring and all-purpose yards. He ran for 2,055 yards and scored 24 touchdowns. 
Collins finished with a pass­ing efficiency rating of 172.9, fourth best in 1-A history. The Penn State quarterback threw for a school-record 2,679 yards, completed 67 percent of his attempts, and passed for 21 touchdowns and only seven interceptions. 
Collins is joined in the back­field by Penn State teammate Ki-Jana Carter, who averaged an NCAA-best 7.8 yards per carry. Carter was fourth in rushing with 1,539 yards and second in scoring with 23 TDs. 
The wide receivers are Jack .Jackson of Florida and Frank Sanders of Auburn. Jackson set a Southeastern Conference record with 15 TD catches and tied the SEC career mark with 29. 
Sanders broke a school 
record with 58 receptions, in­
cluding a game-winning TD in the final minute against then­No. 1 Florida. 
Tight end Pete Mitchell of Boston College had 55 catches for 617 yards, and set school records for most receptions and receiving yards in a career. 
The all-purpose player is Central Michigan's Brian Pruitt, who rushed for 1,890 yards, scored 22 touchdowns and averaged 19 yards on kickoff returns. 
The offensive line consists of Zach Wiegert of Nebraska, Jeff Hartings of Penn State, Tony Boselli of Southern Cal, Korey Stringer of Ohio State, and Cory Raymer of Wisconsin. 
Wiegert anchored a line that helped Nebraska lead the na­tion in rushmg, while Hartings was instrumental in making Penn State the top offensive team team in the country. 
Boselli was one of the major reasons Southern Cal averaged almost 400 yards per game, and Stringer paved the way for an Ohio State offense that twice gained over 500 yards. Raymer, a four-year starter, opened holes for the second-best rush­ing attack in the Big Ten. 
Completing the offense is 
placekicker Brian Leaver of 
Bowling Green, who made 21 of 
24 field goal attempts and 42 of 
43 extra points. Leaver and 
Pruitt both play in the Mid­
American Conference, which 
has had only two other-first­
team AP All-Americans ­
Toledo defensive tackle Mel 
Long in 1971 and Bowling 
Green punter Chris Shale in 

1990. 
The defense is led by Miami tackle Warren Sapp, who won the Lombardi Award as the na­tion's top lineman. Sapp, who had 10 1/2 sacks and recovered three fumbles, spearheaded a defense that gave up fewer points and yards than any other team. 
Rounding out the line are Luther Elliss of Utah, Derrick Alexander of Florida State and Tedy Bruschi of Arizona. 
The linebackers are Ed Stewart of Nebraska, Antonio Armstrong of Texas A&M and Dana Howard of Illinois, the only repeater from last year's team. The secondary features Chris Hudson of Colorado, C.J. Richardson of Miami, Brian Robinson of Auburn and Clifton Abraham of Florida State. 
The punter is Todd Sauerbrun of West Virginia, who set an NCAA record for best average with at least 50 punts. He averaged 48.4 yards on 72 kicks. 
Penn State had three players on the team, which was se­lected by AP college football writer Rick Warner and re­gional AP writers. Colorado, Florida State, Miami, Nebraska and Auburn each had two rep­resentatives. 
There are seven juniors on the team -Salaam, Jackson, Stringer, Sapp, Bruschi, Alexander and Robinson. 
The All-America team will be 
featured on NBC's Bob Hope 
Christmas show, which will air 
Dec. 14 from 9-11 p.m. EST. 
SECOND TEAM 
THIRD TEAM Offense 
Offense 
Quarterback -Kordell Stewart, 
Quarterback -Jay Barker, Colorado. 
Alabama. 
Running backs -Lawrence 
Running backs -Andre Davis. 
Phillips, Nebraska; Napoleon 
TCU; Robert Baldwin, Duke. Kaufman, Washington. 
Wide receivers -KeyshawnWide receivers -Bobby Engram, 
Johnson, Southern Cal; Kevin Penn State; Alex Van Dyke, 
Jordan, UCLA. Nevada. Tight end -Christian Fauria, Tight end -Kyle Brady, Penn 
Colorado. State. 
Center-K.C. Jones, Miami. Center-Clay Shiver, Florida 
Guards-Tackles -Tony Berti, State. Colorado; Jesse James, Mississippi Guards-Tackles -Reuben 
State; Jason Odom, Florida; Brown, Pittsburgh; Brenden Stai. 
Anthony Brown, Utah. Nebraska; Blake Brockermeyer, 
All-purpose-Leeland McElroy,Texas; Evan Pilgrim, BYU. 
Texas A&M. 
All-purpose -Sherman Williams, 
Placekicker -Steve McLaughlin,Alabama. 
Arizona. Placekicker -Remy Hamilton, 
Michigan. 
Defense 
Linemen -Chad Eaton,
Defense 
Washington State; Marcus Jones, Linemen -DeWayne Patterson, 
North Carolina; Tim Colston, Washington State; Mike Pelton, 
Kansas State; Matt Finkes, Ohio Auburn; Dameian Jeffries. 
State. 
Alabama; Kevin Carter. Florida. 
linebackers -Donnie Edwards, Linebackers -Simeon Rice, 
UCLA; Mark Fields, Washingtonlllinois; Ted Johnson, Colorado; 
State; Ray Lewis. Miami. Zach Thomas, Texas Tech. 
Backs-Bobby Taylor, Notre 
Backs -Greg Myers, Colorado Dame; Barron Miles, Nebraska; State; Chad Cota, Oregon; Aaron Ronde Barber, Virginia; RayBeasley, West Virginia; Orlanda 
Farmer, Duke. Thomas, Southwestern Louisiana. 
Punter -Jason Bender, GeorgiaPunter -Brad Maynard. Ball 
Tech. State. 


''eiSY'if~t~ 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North 

(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46?37 

Student Government is making an effort to see that this university stays committed to ensuring that every 
qualified student has the opportunity to attend Notre 
Dame, regardless of financial status. 
We need to know what YOU think about NO's 
Financial Aid, whether or not you receive any. 
PLEASE FILL OUT A FINANCIAL AID SURVEY TODAY AND RETURN IT TO THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE OR TO THE ENVELOPE IN YOUR DORM!!! 
Off campus: Pick up your survey in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. 
----------~----------~­

Thursday, December 8, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• COllEGE SPORTS  - 
ESPN buys NCAA  'Colorado athletics racist'  
championship rights By JOHN NELSON ing some exposure to athletes Associated Press whose sports might not yet have been discovered by the NEW YORK general public." One day after announcing a ESPN, ESPN2 and ESPN $17 billion deal with CBS, the International will televise 23 NCAA on Wednesday said it women's tournament games -had sold TV rights to what was eight from the round of 32, all left of its major championships eight regional semifinals, all to ESPN for eight years through four regional finals, the two 2002. national semifinals, and the The deal includes rights to championship game, beginning events from 19 NCAA champi­in 1996. onships, including exclusive rights to the Division I women's "We had two priorities for basketball tournament. the women's basketball The last four years of the championship: a day of rest contract are option years, and between the semifinal and final if ESPN picks them all up, total and live coverage of earlier value of the package will be rounds," Dempsey said. "I'm $19 million. The NCAA's old pleased that ESPN will help us contr~ct with ESPN was worth do both, starting in 1996." $1.5 million. CBS will televise the women's "We believe this package will national semifinals and final in allow these championships to 1995 for -the last time. Linda grow," NCAA executive direc­Bruno, chair of the NCAA tor Cedric Dempsey said. Division I Women's Basketball "Obviously, this package was Committee, said she viewed the not about money but about giv­switch to ESPN as a step up.  By JOHN MOSSMAN Associated Press BOULDER, Colo. The National Rainbow Coalition said Colorado's ath­letic administration, not its football program, is racist and a threatened boycott is just "a weapon in our arsenal." Charles Farrell of the Rainbow Coalition said in an interview published today in the Rocky Mountain News that the group's criticism had been misunderstood, and all NCAA athletic programs are being fo­cused on by the Coalition. Colorado's hiring of a white football coach rather than a black made the school the Coalition's first target, Farrell said. Rick Neuheisel was hired to replace Bill McCartney, passing over assistant Bob Simmons. Neuheisel, who is 33, has been at CU less than a year, while Simmons, 46, who is black, has been a CU assistant seven years. "We are not asking players  for any immediate boycott of CU," Farrell said. "We are not planning that. It is a weapon in our arsenal that we are ready to use." Running back Rashaan Salaam disagreed with the Coalition's allegations Tuesday and took issue with the Rev. Jesse Jackson, the Coalition's founder. "That's a touchy subject, and for him to make remarks like that, he didn't do his research very well," Salaam said. "What he said is not correct at all." Simmons said Jackson's alle­gations were not about him, but about "what the decision stands for." "I don't know what's going on," Simmons said. "Papers are calling my home, people are saying this and that. But this isn't about me. It's about what the decision stands for. People are asking for answers." Early Tuesday, Simmons in­terviewed at Oklahoma State for the head coaching position. In a letter to university presi­dent Judith Albino, the  Rainbow Coalition said if it was not heard on the matter, its ac­tions might include "lawsuits, censure or picketing, and we may also consider launching a national boycott." CU is in the midst of recruit­ing players for next year, and school officials have said a call for a boycott would damage the football program. Farrell, the national director of the Rainbow Coalition's Fairness in Athletics move­ment, told the News CU's foot­ball program is "stellar." "There has been some real miscommunication, and we are going to try and reach presi­dent Albino to discuss this with her," Farrell said. "We want to clarify that we think the University of Colorado has run a stellar program under coach McCartney, and that there is diversity in the football program. "It's the lack of diversity within the athletic administra­tion that we are concerned with," he said.  


No kidding. More and more students •• ~..FOR STIJb~~· program and beyond. It shows you are telling us how much they enjoy math how to use Mathematica to solve equa­
•rlat,•ema,rca
after they start using Mathematica. tions, make spectacular 20 and 30
The Essential Tool for Math and Science Learning
Whether you're in engineering, plots and graphs, and write reports 
computer science, physics, economics, or any Students use Mathematica to ,oAV s~ that will impress even your 
other technical major, you know how critical understand topics better and fin-_,.o';:,....61'm•o•••Ex,,..~<:.-, toughest professors. 
'If" "'•• .... 
your knowledge of math is to your future. ish homework faster. Mathemat-·~!,. ·~ Students everywhere Now students around ica speeds you through tedious ~~ "h-approach math with a
J,-~-~~-~~~w;--~~~~~~-:;.·. ( 

the world are discov-calculations, and is a great tool ·;us whole new attitude when 
1 

ering that Mathemat-for making sure your answers ~-1 they use Mathematica. So 
1 
•e~tiom In One Unknown j 

, ica makes learning are accurate. It's ideal nr.\/7U ~··· treat yourself to this Holi­
1 

math really eXciting. for any course where ~@\!J\:1 ean:pUS day Special and ring in the 
•c..toul.... 

the assignments involve Niffifl: f18llrYoU new year with Mathematica 
i' sool<S 

i i 
algebra, calculus, linear algebra, on your desktop. ~,JO, -· differential equations, statistics ... and the 
For more information or to order from home. call 
--
list goes on.·g~~.:.~·.-;:;" 

·=~ 
Mathematica isn't just fast-it's easy. 1-800-441-MATH (6284) You'll start getting answers the moment you type your first equation on the screen. And Wolfram Research 
1!1.\;b.;.;,;,;;;...;;;;;;,:;,;;;,;;~;;;.,.,.;,;:,;q ]_@l€:~ ~· Mathematica: The Student Book is included to Wolfram Research, Inc. help you quickly through the basics of the +1-217-398~0700; fax: +1-217-398-0747; email: info@wri.com 
Mathematlca for Students is available to all currently enrolled full-time students. Student identification required. Mathematica for Students is afull-function version of Mathematk:a and is available on Macintosh and Microsoft Windows systems. Numeric coprocessor support not included. MathLinkf') support not included on the Windows version. Academic discounts are ava1lable for profess1onal vers1ons of Mathemat1ca on all personal computers. workstatrons, and supercomputers. Lab and site programs are also available. 
!QT!I9&Wollramllesearch.lrw: MB/t!emaraandMafflrMSfefBQisteredtrademal~aiWollramResearth.n: M8th!rnataeootassacJaledWI!hMathelnat&aPollt"fllesea!th,lnc orMathTech.n: AllotheriJUduttro:nesmoo!IO'llldaretrad!wnaBsollhelrproduws 
. Qame 
t~~lf~ 
l'Y !1Q,fl.ltbuffsday 
· , tO p p.m. at . 
J;;t\;.~;c:··· ea~h··: ·~rim( up to·•4 
. ~ .•. $4Q.,. 
wm•·n~ t~ards. ~n. •? ;;'n, 

.... 2;3Qp.m. VOUiSYJA.t.Li he volleyball .te~rn ••..• iP ;,th~ Physiq~I Education ehlss held at 11:15 •o:ri• MWwho weijt'ttndeteated ilf ititourna·
: . .. .;, ra~r.i~~.• 
n, J .. KIHtunen: .M;imetta Cl~vijo; Ca.th~rine . .·Mon~h~· B.M:l\tfl Sinha. and Clifto.~ .~.!1Se·.·.ln ~he cla~s
.held ~t li15·on m. the team 
.JhaifiJi~hed ""ith ·.l\ perfect mark· ·<•·tpelu~es Pa~l Lanianki~ John:Tejada. Lee Hambright. Renee Mitsul. and Inga Holewinski. BR.OOMBALL LEAGUE: It will be a eo~rec campus event. Deadltne will be 
January 19th. · CHALLENGE UAEROBICS: will hf!.Ve its last class day this Tuesday. December 13. 
8-20/30
MINUTE PACKAGES 
or 
1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 

.._ 
~ Olieago Hair fitUing fu~ 
'·--·' 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n-7946 
HOURS: I 9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6 Sun. 11-5 
-~ -~---~­
Thursday, December 8, 1994

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
-
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
throws. Then came the burst. 
"I think we underestimated them for a moment," Gaither said, "because they showed that they could come back." 
With 5:16 left to play, the Spartans nailed a three and the lead for the first time since the first five minutes of the game. This time Bowen and Stacy Fields came through in the clutch. 
Fields all but swallowed the ball on an offensive rebound close in on the base­line then hit the short jumper with a soft touch. The Spartans took the entire shot clock to hit a six footer in the key. Bowen answered with a turnaround jumper followed by Fields taking the baseline from the left twice in a row on the same defender. 
For the last four minutes, every Irish basket was answered with a Spartan free throw. With 14.6 seconds left, Bowen grabbed the key rebound off a missed MSU foul shot, but a question­able slide tackle by the defense resulted in a turnover against the Irish. 
Fields went for the retaliation steal, but the whistle blew this time and MSU was at the line once again. With 5.2 seconds left, Notre Dame came up with the rebound, put the ball in Fields' hands but the buzzer .sounded before the game winning shot was sunk. 

"I felt that we played hard on both ends of the court," Gaither said, "but it seems we just let up a little in the end of the second half." 
Notre Dame registered more rebounds, steals, blocked shots, loose ball recoveries, and assists, and less turnovers than Michigan State. Perhaps the statistic which decided the game was Notre Dame's 19 to Michigan State's 12 fouls. The Spartans shot 76.5% from the charity stripe. 
"We'll learn from our mistakes," Gaither said, "That's what's important about a game like this." 
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 

Hockey 
continued from page 20 
"Our opponents have been getting way too many shots on goal," defenseman Garry Gruber said. "We're losing the battle for the loose pucks, and we're not playing the body as well as we'd like." 
Coach Schafer and his staff have devised a new strategy for this week­end's games against Alaska-Fairbanks and Miami, Ohio that they believe is bet­ter suited to the squad's personnel. 
"Since we don't have a bunch of goal scorers, our· new outlook is that we can­not be scored on," Schafer said. "Our scoring's gonna happen. We just have to be patient and concentrate defensive­ly on shutting our opponents down." 
This more defensive minded game plan is sure to take some of the pressure off the two Irish goaltenders. Junior Wade Salzman and freshman Matt Eisler have shared time at the position although Eisler is currently sidelined with a hamstring injury. 
For Notre Dame to defy the odds and turn their disappointing season around, one of the goaltenders must step up and assume the starting role for the remain­der of the season. 
"It's been frustrating because both of us have worked hard," Salzman said. "It doesn't matter if it's Matt or myself, but one of us needs to come through." 
Despite the problems that the squad has endured in addition to being mired in ninth place, the Irish are still confi­dent that the remainder of this season can be salvaged. 
"This is the best team we've had since I've been here," Ling said. "We just need to stay positive and get back to the basics. We need to start doing the things that we know we do well." 
Both Alaska-Fairbanks and Miami of Ohio have struggled so far this season, so coach Schafer acknowledges that this weekend is the perfect opportunity for the Irish to make up ground in the standings. 
"It is time for us to get back on track," Schafer explained. "The team morale is incredibly good in light of our record. It would be nice to go into Christmas on a high note." 
If they fail to snap their losing streak this weekend, it will be a long and cold holiday season for the Irish hockey team. 

Relieve your stress during finals week..Come to Stress Relief, a study break sponsored by SUB and Student Government. 
-Finger Painting­
•

-Naps 1n the Hammock~ Massages in the Vibrating Chair­-Gummy Bears and Redhots-
Contest to guess how many gummy bears w_ill fit in Matt Orsagh's mouth...winner will receive a brand new [ru~W[ru~~W[ru\t®[f! 
Wednesday, December 14 from 9-12 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom 
kinko•s® 

Alast-minute SAVE. 

the copy center 
FREE BLIMPIE SUBS FOR EVERYONE! FREE HOT DOGS FOR FIRST 1 ,000! 


_.. ­
---~~-~~--~ ~-------------~-------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, December 8, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
~Ef•~ElSE{,INNINq \.})ofl-"-, 
Sri\P-E Ou-r [,.l11"l> ov' Ar<c VJA>< 
PI1<L05opt-11G ABouT Tt-~E 
\='vTufl-E... 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1\\1"'> ~\ll:l\...'1:'. B\lS\1'\~'S'S 01= S~t-rr~>, R'C.'N~\N~ GOOO KID'S f>...ND j, ~ ~ 1--l'i:G\.KIII'-IG BAD ~ r<' 1(1!/S R~\..L'{ ­
BIX>S !J.E. 
DILBERT 
HERE'S THE BASIC PLAN 
rOR GETTING OUR "ISO 'WOO" CERTIFICATION 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Hoo-ha 29 American rival 
1 Dolphin family 32 Words after see, member hear or speak 
4Terra­
33 Barnyard belle 9 Mrs. Gorbachev 34 Simplifies, with 14 Comment from "down"33-Across 36 Rocket stage 15 Oscar, e.g. 

37 Part 2 of the 16 Mayflower messageCompact signer 39 Capable of 

17-major. 
making(legal doctrine) mistakes18 "Faust" 42 Football's Papa character Bear, George 

19 New York's Little-­43 Wrecker20 Start of a 4&Come outlapel-button 
48 "Mayberry-"

warning message 49 Singer Amos 23Cut down so Matt Dillon, e.g. 24 Mexican snack 52 Snouted beast 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

A ?A.RJI.GO~ o~ V\R\\l£., 111A.i5 '(O\J. 
53 End of the message (we warned you!) 
57 Spice-rack item 60 Gettysburg 
victor 61 Jazz musician 62 Run off &3Tidal-­64 G.P. grp. &sit's 
unfathomable 66 Chose, with "for" &7 Back talk 
DOWN 
1 Make 
unnecessary 2-Coalition 3 Washington's 
-Range 4 Military group s One who 
charges 6 Rikki-tikki-­7 Math subject sWing it 9 Four Monopoly 
properties 1 o Inseparable 
friend 11 G. &S. princess 
seasoning 13-which way 21 Siouan Indian 22 Dog holder 25 "-had it!" 26-lizzie 27 Schnozz 
extension 29 Goal measure 
R\G\-\1 ! B\l\ 'St.E, 11-\t.\<'i:. ARt. Ct.RI/>..1~ 1\·U~GS f>.. GOOD KID CC>\JLD \)() 11\JI..T MIG\-\\ LOOK BAD \~ A ct:R\t>.\~ L\G\1, I~ 01'\£. D\QI'\~ CO"-lSIOt.R A\..L \\-\£. !'ii\1\Gf\II~G CIRC.\lMS\f>NC£5. 


DAVE KELLETT 
@THEN Go All£ 1\"1:> ANcli'><E 
T""'~ N"l'· "\OI.JV!O EA?-NE.t> lT T1e:,£-R. 
BILL WATTERSON 




30 Genie's grant 31 Hitching post? 34 Cask openings 35 Kind of portrait 37 Esculent roots 38 Groovy, these 
days 39 Border 40Actress 
Thurman 41 Deb~ssy's "La 
43 Kind of anesthetic 

44 Paper art ss Skiing 45 Eavesdrop, in a memento, way 
perhaps 47Wearaway s& Garfield's pal 49 Smear 57 Maude 51 Bar dance? 
portrayer 52 The way things sa Priest's go garment 54-tide 59 Kind of sauce 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


Join 
The Observer. 
Give us a call at 631·5323. Positions available. 
..... 
-

%e ObserVer Published Monday through Friday, %e Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. Join the more than t:tOOO readers who have found %e Observer an indispensible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive '11ie Observerin your home.  Make checks payable: The Observer ·and mail: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 Enclosed is $35 for one semester.D NaiDe ________________________________ ___ Address._______________________________ City______State___Zip____  


.fill' 
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, December 8, 1994 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team was a formi­dable opponent in yesterday's game, except for a short burst late in the second half. 
In less than two minutes, Michigan State scored 11 unanswered points, bringing the game to a nail biter finish for the last five minutes of play. 
When the buzzer sounded, Michigan State emerged victorious, 75-73. 
The Irish were fiercely holding on to a ten to thirteen point lead throughout most of the game. 
In the first half, Michigan State's biggest lead was early on when Notre Dame trailed by six for a little over four minutes. Then starting for­ward Letitia Bowen was joined by Katryna Gaither off the bench. 
Bowen sunk two free throws, then took the base­line for two on the next pos­session. Gaither, standing a strong 6'3", grabbed a rebound and scored two on the put back. 
Sticking around to add some pressure on the inbound pass, she wrested a

.. steal under the basket and tossed it in for another bucket and the lead. MSU took a timeout, subbed in their two 

ByKC GOYER Sports Writer 
tallest girls, and play re­sumed as Gaither powered through both of them for her third basket in just over a minute. 
Gaither ended the night with a career high 22 points, her third double digit game this season. 
Coach Muffet McGraw ex­pected an up tempo game from Michigan State, and emphasized to the team the need to stop the transition game. 
Notre Dame played a 2-3 zone throughout most of the game, and with the relentless defensive play of Bowen, effectively shut down the Spartan attack. 
Michigan State came into the second half still struggling as Notre Dame pulled farther ahead on an 11-2 run led by starting forward Carey Poor and Gaither. 
Poor fought past her defender to sink a basket good with the foul, and com­pleted the three point play. On the next possession, Bowen dished to Poor un­derneath, and after a Spartan turnover, Gaither pulled the deja vu with another three point play. 
The Irish were enjoying a fourteen point lead when MSU began to draw more fouls and started hitting free 
see HOOPS I page 18 

• HOCKEY 
Many questions, few answers 
Schafer hopes new strategy is the answer 
By MICHAEL DAY Sporrs Writer 
Question: What reasons can be cited for the Notre Dame hockey team's lackluster start? 
Answer: "Too numerous to mention," head coach Ric Sch~er said. 
Indeed, to say the Irish are enduring a rough season, would be an understatement for the ages. Following last weekend's 11-2 thrashing at the hands of Michigan, Notre Dame has dropped six consecu­tive games to fall 1-9 in CCHA play. 
"We've had trouble putting 60 minutes together," junior most part. Averaging a paltry all year." center Jamie Ling said. "We 2.2 goals per game in confer­On the other side of the coin, play good for most of the game, ence play, the Irish have had the Notre Dame defense has then after one momentary plenty of shots on goal but have been erratic at best. In 10 
lapse, we've dug ourselves in a failed to convert. CCHA games, the unit has given hole." "We are a team of latent goal up a whopping 59 goals, includ­
Although Ling currently scorers," Schafer said. "We ing 11 to the Wolverines last ranks sixth in the conference in need a disproportionate num­Saturday. scoring with 19 points, the Irish ber of chances to score. It will offense has been anemic for the probably be a dilemma for us see HOCKEY I page 18 


• VOllEYBAll 
Lee's been a fresh spark 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
This year's recruiting class for the Notre Dame volleyball team was ranked as the second best in the nation by Volleyball Monthly magazine. The Irish freshman class have proven themselves more than worthy of that distinction and middle blocker Jamie Lee is no excep­tion. 
Lee, a 5-10 freshman from Spokane, Washington, has been an underrated player this season, much because of the adjustment to a new position and the presence of more her­alded freshman sensation, Angie Harris. 
Although Lee has been over­shadowed by the record-break­ing success of Harris, her impact on the Irish team, and, more importantly, Irish oppo­nents has been felt throughout the historical 1994 season. She will be a key player Friday night as the Irish take on fifth ranked Penn State in the Mideast Regionals in Lincoln, Nebraska. 
Coming into the season, Lee not only had to adjust to the transition of playing college volleyball, but she also had to 
see LEE I page 14 



ofnote...
SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
Cindy Daws, ..Jen Renola and 
The Belles squared off against the Lady 
Holly Manthei were selected 
Foresters of Lake Forest earlier this week. 
to the NSCAA all-Midwest 
See page 13 
Region first team. 




