
Hungeling and Orsagh ran on the promise to dissolve student government and funnel its money into a Grateful Dead concert. They also promised to lobby for free student football tickets and increase the amount of fun on campus. Although many people initially thought their campaign was a joke, the two juniors "changed it into a grass-roots social movement," according to Hungeling. 
Although Corbett was unable to be at the announcement, DuBay congratulated the Hun­geling and Orsagh on their vic­tory and wished them well. 
"We'd like to thank all of our supporters. We'd also like to wish Dave, Matt, and Tyler (Farmer), their campaign man­ager, the best of luck next year," said DuBay. 

Hungeling and Orsagh re­ceived the majority of the votes in every male dorm as well as 
Miss America: America not free 
By KATHY HAUSMANN 
News Writer 
Americans must work to dis­
pel the stereotypes which often 
limit the freedoms granted by 
the Constitution, according to 
Dr. Debbye Turner, Miss Amer­
ica of 1990. 
Turner said she strove to 
abolish some of the stereotypes 
placed upon her from the mo­
ment she stepped on the stage 
to give her lecture, "Are We 
Truly the Land of the Free?''. 
Turner recited the words to 
the national anthem, 
st141/ressing the last two lines. 
She went on to answer that 
America is not truly the land of 
the free. 
Turner gave historical refer­
ence to the notion that there 
was "no freedom for women, 
and certainly no freedom for 
blacks. Only our consciences 
have changed, but a lot of 
hearts haven't changed at all." 
" In the 1960s, prejudice was 
boisterous, today it is sophisti­
cated, politically correct, an in­
visible foe," she said. 
Through her experiences 
with the Miss America Scholar­. ship pageant, Turner gave ex­amples of ways her freedom was limited. She faced the stereotypes that she wasn't the "right kind of person," that she "had the wrong talent" (playing the marimba). and that she wasn't the "right color" to be 
Miss America. 
She succeeded in her mission 
for breaking the stereotypes 
that led to her crown, as well South African problems to "dis­the movies and on television)succeeding at her goals of be­unity, (and because of this) they you always see blacks robbingcoming a veterinarian, speak­have despair." liquor stores and 7-lls. Whying out around the world for To solve this problem of dis­can't we rob a bank where the

Christian relations, and 

unity, Turner suggested, "It is real money is?" 
motivating American school 

important to understand the From that, she explained thatchildren to become educated differences between (races and some of the worst stereotypesand thereby increase their self­genders), then forget them." out there are based purely onesteem. 
In South Africa, "they (can't) what people perceive one's ca­Because people cannot see get over their differences long pabilities are, without givingthe prejudice that exists, or be­enough to get anything done," people the chance to surpasscause they choose to ignore it, yet she believes that if you com­those expectations. As shepeople unknowingly limit their bine one person's strong points speaks to young adults aroundpotential. She related these with another person's strong the country, she gives her own
American problems to the 

racial situation in South Africa, points, those strengths will solution to this problem: 
unite to make something "Refuse to be limited by the
where she had recently visited. 

greater, no matter what color stereotypes placed on the group Turner believed that every­or gender the people are. you are in. If you refuse to ac­thing concerning the racial and 
segregation problems in South In America, however, Turner cept (the stereotypes), you have 
blamed stereotypes for many of the freedom to excel in thisAfrica was something she could the race relation problems our country."
see every day in America, only society faces. A humorous ex­"What does it take to excel?"

in America "it's dressed up 

ample she gave was that "(in
more." She attributed the 
see AMERICA I page 4 


By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
The student government of­fice was unusually quiet last night when the official election results were announced. Judg­ing from the looks on some of the faces. one might have thought that somebody had died. But it was not a "some­body" who died; instead, it may well have been student gov­ernment itself. 
In yesterday's runoff election for student body president and vice-president, the David Hun­geling/Matt Orsagh ticket won over 56 percent of the elec­torate (2,730 votes), while the Bryan Corbett/Karen DuBay team earned over 42 percent (2,058 votes). Nearly 62 percent 
Alumni contributions soar despite slumped economy 

David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh 
of the student body cast votes in the runoff. 
"We're very excited. We real­ize that we have a lot of work ahead of us," said Hungeling last night. "We really hope to deliver some fun." 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI 
News Writer 
Despite the sluggish econ­omies of 1992 and 1993, University of Notre Dame alum­ni and friends kept giving the gift that keeps on giving­cash. 
Cash contributions to the 
University for the fiscal year 1993 exceed­ed the hopes of the University's Department of Development as a record 

$60.9 million  Daniel G.  
was collected.  Reagan  
The  total  

exceeded the record set in 1990 by more than $7 million. 
Daniel G. Reagan, director of development, said the contri­butions bring the University closer to its financial goals. 
"Our number one priority is and remains raising money for financial aid,". said Reagan. "It's one we've worked on dili­gently for several years." 
The library is another con­cern of Reagan. Last semes­ter's "Colloquy for the Year 2000" report contained a scathing indictment of the Uni­versity's library system for out­dated technology and the con­dition of its books and col­lections. 
Thus the University's second goal, said Reagan, is "to enhance library holdings ... from a perspective of books and technology." 
Third, he said, "We are look­ing for what we refer to as un­restricted gifts." Unrestricted gifts would give the University a source of money "that can an­nually be tapped for the Uni­versity's most pressing needs," such as financial aid. 
The Council for Aid to Educa­tion ranked Notre Dame in the top 20 for total support among private, doctoral degree-grant­Ing institutions. 
More telling, said Reagan, was that the Council ranked Notre Dame number two in alumni participation. In 1993, 51% of Notre Dame alumni donated money. Dartmouth was first with 58%. 
"Some might say, 'My good­ness, where is the other 49%?"' said Reagan. But he added that the national average is 28%. "That's a very positive indica­tor." 
Perhaps most surprising is the amount of support from non-Notre Dame alumni. 
"We do receive great support from what we refer to as 'Notre Dame friends,"' Reagan said. "About 17% of our donors are not alumni." 
Of course, money does not flow without dialogue. Reagan confirmed that donors have the ear of the University. 
"We are not unlike many sales and marketing organiza­tions where the opinions and concerns of [donors] are impor­tant to us," he said. "Coupled with that, Notre Dame is a very emotional place, and people are concerned about it. We would naturally seek out their opinions on how things are go­ing." 
As the University moves fur­ther away from the Strategic Moment campaign, which ended in 1990, fewer contribu­tions come from promised gifts. Reagan said this was another indicator of last year's success. 
"As we move further away from the conclusion of the cam­paign," he said, "less and less of that annual amount would be money spawned by the Strategic Moment campaign. That's why we were happy this year." 
The $60.9 million amount tells only part of the Develop­ment office's success. The University received promises of $8.2 million in planned gifts and $14.5 million in giving commitments. Contributions from corporations and founda­tions totaled $18.7 million. 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Everything I needed to know I learned from Buffet 
Around the middle of winter, a strange thing happens to the students of Notre Dame. No one is exactly sure what causes this bizarre phenomena. Maybe its the realization that even two straight weeks in the library won't get you caught up Kate Crisham in your classes. Maybe News Copy Editor its the weariness of con­stantly braving the sub-Arctic temperatures and ice rinks/sidewalks. Maybe it's accepting the fact that Bridget's really is closed and Wednesday penny beer nights are now nothing but a distant memory. Maybe it's one sniff of ethanol too many. Whatever the case, Notre Dame students in winter·are generally a complaining, bad-tem­pered, stressed-out bunch. 
Different people have different ways of dealing with this "South Bend-in-February" ­induced depression. Some hibernate in their rooms with only Sega and Papa John's for companionship. Others constantly torment themselves with the knowledge that if they had gone to Duke, they would be wearing shorts and ordering Final Four tickets now. 
And me? Well, I have an unique, complete­ly effective way of dealing with this predica­ment. I simply pour myself an ice-cold bever­age, pop in a CD and meditate upon the Philosophy of Jimmy Buffett. 
It is ironic that a school that professes to be such a haven for Parrotheads has so few prac­ticing members of the Buffett religion. Maybe that is because the gems of wisdom that betray Buffett's genius are generally found in the songs you don't know by heart -the real best of Jimmy Buffett. 
I should know. I converted to Buffett's phi­losophy after nearly two decades of Type-A, stressed-out behavior. I saw (or rather heard) the light one day after contemplating these words from the Buffett classic "Weather is Here, Wish You Were Beautiful": ,.."And if it doesn't work out, at least there's no doubt/ That the pleasure was worth all the pain." 
The fact is, despite his silliness and some­times goofy lyrics, Buffett does have a valid message. Life is much too short to sweat the small stuff. Life is meant to be lived-cyni­cism, complaining, and stress never accom­plished anything but high blood pressure. 
Buffett's message of keeping a sense of humor-and a sense of perspective-is partic­ularly applicable to the students at Notre Dame. Most of us have a tendency to take things (and ourselves) much too seriously. The fact is, it really isn't necessary to leave the library with the security guards each night. Those late night bull sessions with friends are usually much more educational than a thou­sand lectures. And there's nothing we can do about the Permacloud, so we might as well stop complaining about it. 
So go ahead. Take a night off to watch cheesy movies. Throw some snowballs. Forget about the fat content and eat that cheeseburger in paradise. Become a true Parrothead. 


Remember, if we couldn't laugh, we really would go insane. And there's plenty of mater­ial at Notre Dame to keep us laughing at our­selves for a long time. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Production  
Teresa Aleman  Cheryl Moser  
Edward Imbus  Jackie Moser  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Tim Seymour  Kyle Kusek  

Viewpoint Graphics MarkKrecji Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except duting exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-~ ~~------------------------------------------------. 
The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, February 10, 1994 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Oscar nominations announced 
BEVERLY HILLS 
Academy Award members honored substance over style this year, embracing a group of films with serious but uncommercial storylines: the Holocaust, AIDS, a falsely accused Irish bomber, a mute woman forced into an arranged marriage. 
The Holocaust drama "Schindler's List" received 12 nominations, including best picture and best director for Spielberg, long snubbed by the Academy. 
Also notable this year: Tom Hanks was nominated in the best acting category for playing a gay man dying of AIDS in "Philadelphia." 
But "Philadelphia," the first big studio film about AIDS, got five nominations, including best actor for Hanks and best original screenplay. 
"In the Name of the Father," a little-seen account of falsely convicted Irish rebel Gerry Conlon, received seven nominations, including best picture and best actor for Daniel Day-Lewis. 
In the best picture category, the nominees were "Schindler's List," "The Fugitive," "In the Name of the Father," "The Piano" and "The Remains of the Day." 
Joining Neeson, Hanks and Day-Lewis in the race for best actor are Anthony Hopkins for his role as the butler Stevens in "The Remains of the Day" and Laurence Fishburne for playing the abusive Ike Turner in "What's Love Got to Do With It." 
The best actress selections were Bassett for singer Tina Turner in "What's Love Got to Do With It"; Stockard Channing as society wife Ouisa Kittredge from "Six Degrees of Separation"; Holly Hunter as the mute mail­order bride Ada in "The Piano"; Emma Thompson for housekeeper Kenton in "The Remains of the Day," and Debra Winger as dying writer Joy Gresham in "Shadowlands." 
Grand jury opens for Jackson investigation 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif 
A grand jury convened Wednesday to consider molestation charges against Michael Jackson, and the first witness was actor Marlon Branda's adult son, Miko Brando, a former Jackson body­guard and valet. A boy, now 14, has accused the 35-year-old pop superstar of seducing him with lavish gifts, then sexually molesting him last year. He sued Jackson in September seeking 

Milan ii' •Center of investigation •Where trial tak~ place tc •1,135 people under investigation . 358 people arrested Total amount of kickback money paid:$3 billion to $4 billion Source: Italian Justice Ministry, Parliament, Einaudi Center AP!Tom Holmes VMI: Option for women proposed  
ROANOKE, Va. The state's attorney general today defended a plan to keep Virginia Military Institute all-male by setting up a separate but similar program for women. "It's a good opportunity for women," Gilmore said in a hearing that resulted from a 1990 Justice Department lawsuit, in which the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond gave the state the option of giving equivalent financial support to a separate program for women. The program at Mary Baldwin College, a private women's school 30 miles from VMI's Lexington campus, would have the same goal of preparing students for leadership but with­out VMI's sometimes harsh 24-hour military atmosphere. The Justice Department returned to court to argue that the Mary Baldwin alternative allows sexual discrimina­tion to continue in a way the appeals court barred. The program omits the essential components of the VMI's unique experience, Justice Department attorney Gary Haugen said, and bases the differences on gender stereo­types. The Justice Department wants Kiser to force VMI to admit women. Last month, the Supreme Court ordered The Citadel, the nation's only other state-sup­ported male-only college, to let Shannon Faulkner attend day classes while a federal judge in South Carolina decides whether to back the single-sex plan or to let her join the corps of cadets. Bahamian-registered oil tanker explodes  
SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic A U.S. Coast Guard cutter rescued two sailors at dusk Wednesday, more than 27 hours after their empty oil tanker caught fire, exploded and split in two in the Caribbean. Six other crew on the Bahamian-registered Albioni were presumed killed in the explosion, Coast Guard spokesman Christopher Haley said from San Juan, Puerto Rico. Twenty-two people were rescued earlier from the 500-foot ship, which was bound from the Dominican Republic to Venezuela to load oil when it exploded on Tuesday 75 miles southeast of Santo Domingo, the capital. The Dominican-owned vessel was torn in two by the explosion, with both halves still afloat Wednesday. "The two pieces of the ship are now nine miles apart," Haley said. Authorities are still investigat­ 

unspecified monetary damages. Last month, he reached an out-of-court settlement in the civil lawsuit brought by his accuser. Sources who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty told The Associated Press it totaled $15 million. Los Angeles County prosecutors have been investigating the allegations against Jackson for six months but have not flled charges. 


Floods hit West Virginia 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. 
Hundreds of residents fled their homes along swollen streams across parts of West Virginia on Wednesday after more than 4 inches of rain. High water also blocked dozens of roads, closed schools and businesses in several counties and forced rerouting of traffic on one interstate, authorities said. In addition to rain, the storm that spread snow and ice from the Plains to the East Coast on Tuesday also hit West Virginia with ice that knocked out power to about 13,000 customers statewide. In northern West Virginia, about 1,000 people were asked to leave their Tucker County homes in an eight­mile stretch along the Cheat River from St. G~orge to Hendricks. High water had already entered many of the homes, said Parsons firefighter Eric McCrum. Canaan Valley in Tucker County received 4.15 inches of rain. 



Pressure ~ 
Thursday, February 10, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 






Marks: Stronger UN needed in post cold-war era 

The Observer/ Dan McKillop 
Princeton Professor Stephen Marks lectures on the need for a stronger United Nations in a post cold-war era. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 

Po!i~ 0 a:.~th 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219)277.. 1291
51408 31 North South Bend, IN 4663 7 Phone Answered 24 hrs. 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Writer 
The examples of negotiated settlements and intervention by the United Nations in Cambodia and El Salvador illustrate the need for a stronger UN in the post Cold War era, according to Princeton University's Stephen Marks. 
Marks said the United Na­tions' unprecedented role in mediating both of these con­flicts unlocks new doors in international relations. Under the leadership of Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the United Nations has sub­scribed to a vision of peace that does not end at the bargaining table, but reaches across all facets of a war-torn society. 
In a paper entitled "An Agenda for Peace," Boutros­Ghali outlined a plan calling for "preventive diplomacy, peace making, peace keeping, and post-conflict peace building" in early 1992. The idea is unique because " ... where preventive diplomacy seeks to prevent a conflict, peace building seeks to prevent its reoccurrence by stimulating the post war heal­ing process," Marks noted. For the first time, the United Nations was thinking beyond the limited role of peace build­ing. 
The peace building concept calls for seven steps: disarming the warring parties, maintain­ing custody of and destroying weapons, repatriating refugees, advising and training security personnel, advancing efforts to protect human rights, monitor­ing elections, reforming or strengthening governmental institutes, and promoting for-political participation. 
Marks asserted that the UN operations in both Cambodia, where he served for a year, and El Salvador were, and continue to be, jumping off points for the implementation of this new view. Sometimes the efforts were met with success and sometimes UN overseers met with failure. 
Through the efforts of UN diplomats and the mutual coop­eration of both sides, great strides were made along the lines put forth by Boutros­Ghali. The El Salvadoran agreement created "The Commission on Truth" to inves­tigate alleged human rights abuses by both factions in the twelve year civil war. The com­mission's report rocked El Salvador's government and army with its findings of state supported massacres. It recog­nized the need for the offenders to be punished, regardless of the office they possess. "This is unparalleled in world politics since the Nuremburg and Tokyo trials after World War II," noted Marks. 
Thousands of refugees were repatriated by United Nations observers. El Salvador's first free elections in over a fifteen years are scheduled for this March. 
Cambodia's 1992 elections were hailed as a democratic success because with UN sup­port, over 90% of registered voters participated. The elec­tions were Cambodia's first since the Khmer Rouge initiat­ed its civil insurrection. The UN Security Council endorsed the voting as free and unob­structed. As in El Salvador, many refugees were repatri-

DOMINOS 

PIZZA 
One for Two for 




Cheese Pizza 
Cheese Pizza $1 per topping 
99¢ 

$1 per topping 
Twisty Bread with Pizza Order 
VALID AT THIS LOCATION FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY 
SUN-THUR FRI-SAT 
4:30 p.m. ·1 a.m. 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE 4:30 p.m. •2 a.m. 
process were minimal. 
While the process met with success in its civil goals in both countries, its military aims were a different story. Diplomats encountered numer­ous problems in both countries. The opposing parties were not easily willing to lay down their arms, and vague rules of engagement prevented UN mili­tary personnel from in­tervening. 
Even though both nations es­tablished national police forces as a way of reforming existing governmental agencies, their power was limited. El Salvado­ran "death squads," like those who terrified the population in the 1980's, resurfaced. The Khmer Rouge in Cambodia re­fused to stand down its forces. The machines of violence were still in place. 
No first try is perfect, Marks is quick to admit. "There were positive steps taken in both projects," he noted. Moreover, Marks said that he sees lessons to be learned from the experi­ences. Beginning peace talks is the hard part. Marks does not see such processes like those that took place in El Salvador and Cambodia occurring in world hot spots like the former Yugoslavia or Somalia. He said it will now play a role in build­ing the political, economic, mili­tary, and social structure of the post-Cold War world. "A remarkable amount can be accomplished with Boutros­Ghali's 'Peace Building.' Extraordinary precedents are being established. Now is the time to capitalize on the situa­tion with intelligent use of oper­ational presence in post-conflict areas." 
ACf VIITIIA IPC13): 1ta, 2:41i, Ul.7.Ul ~!II !PC): 1••~. 5:1i,7:15,t15 IIM(I):1:41i,4:11,7:11,1.. _,II..(PCU):1:15, 4:15, t45, 1;11 .Ill!PC): 12:15, ta, 5:15, 1;11,1;46 I'IUIIIIIIAIPC111: 1:11, t45, 7:15, t41i 
~ 
DIE r10RRIS INN 
Of NOTRE DAI'IE 

NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 
Public Welcome 

Valentine's Dinner Specials Starting at $9.75 
Includes Soup, Salad, Entree and Special Dessert 

Specials Available from 
February 11 -February 14 
For Reservations Call 
631-2020 


-~---~-----~----~---~--~--------------------------~--------------~--­
page 4 


Expert panel says antibiotic therapy may cure ulcers 
By PAUL RECER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Use of powerful antibiotics to kill a stomach bacterium may offer a final cure for peptic ul­cers, a digestive disorder that flares up repeatedly in millions of Americans. 
An independent advisory panel of experts convened by the National Institutes of Health said Wednesday that there is now conclusive scientific evi­dence that a bacterium called Helicobacter pylori plays a role in peptic ulcer disease. 
The panel recommended that patients with peptic ulcers who test positive for H. pylori be treated with two weeks of com­bination antibiotic drugs. 
Experts said the fmding is an important advance in the recommended treatment of peptic ulcers, a disease that affects about 25 million Ameri­cans. 
"We now have an opportunity to cure a disease that previous­ly we were able only to sup­press and control," said Dr. Ann Williams of the George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. 
"People have been waiting to see if the total body of evidence would support this therapy," said Dr. David Alpers, a profes­sor of medicine at the Washing-


Discovery aims experiment at small targets 
By MIKE DRAGO 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Discovery's crew ejected six metal balls from the shuttle to­day to give space debris experts better methods of tracking thousands of small items whizzing around the Earth. 
The spheres, ranging from 2 to 6 inches in diameter, were sprung one at a time from a canister in the rear of the shut­tle cargo bay for a test of ground radar stations in Mas­sachusetts and Florida. The balls popped out as Discovery flew over British Columbia. 
Debris trackers hoped to fol­low the spheres as they shot out of Discovery and orbited Earth; the balls will incinerate on contact with the atmosphere 


America 
continued from page 1 
she asked. Her answer was simple: "Get off our aspira­tions and do something. If you don't like the old boys' system, get in the middle of it, learn it, and be better at it then they are." 
She said that one person cannot change the whole world, but that's okay. Her stand is that "the world you have to change is the one you live in." The one change Turner would like to see is to "convince one generation to not settle for status quo and (therefore) we could have a whole new society." 
"Prepare, participate, and persevere; apply yourself be­yond your imagination and make a change," she ended, leaving the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame with a challenge: "I challenge you to use your imagination and cre­ativity to find your niche. You are the future-the (future) land of the free, and the home of the brave." 
ton University School of Medicine in St. Louis and a member of the expert panel. 
The committee heard two days of testimony and evaluated research data about H. pylori before issuing the recommen­dations. 
Members concluded that there now was scientific proof that H. pylori can be a cause of chronic superficial gastritis, a persistent inflammation of the stomach. 
They also found that 90 per­cent to 95 percent of all patients with ulcers in the duo­denum, the upper small intes­tine just below the stomach, are infected with H. pylori. About 80 percent of patients with stomach ulcers are infected with the bacterium. 
Despite this, the committee said, only a small percentage of people infected with H. pylori actually end up with peptic ul­cers, suggesting that other fac­tors play a role in the disease. 
"The strongest evidence for the pathogenic role of H. pylori in peptic ulcer disease is the marked decrease in recurrence rate of ulcers following eradica­tion of infection," the panel said. 
Peptic ulcers are a chronic in­flammation of the stomach lin­ing or of the duodenum. Treat­ment traditionally has been with drugs to reduce secretion 
Thursday, February 10, 1994 
The Observer/ Dan McKillop 

"One perfect rose ..." 
Sharon Holthaus and Bill Brennan settle on a price for Valentine's Day blossoms. Irish Gardens is locatep in the basement of LaFortune student center and business is "blooming" this week. 
of digestive acids, which aggra­vate the condition, or to neutralize the acids. The condi­tion also is aggravated by alco­hol, smoking and by some drugs, such as aspirin. 
Millions of patients develop ulcers and go through a successful treatment, only to have the disorder recur throughout life. Some ulcers cause bleeding or perforation of the stomach or intestine, condi­tions that can require emer­gency surgery. 
in a few months. The four Later in1the morning during a smaller balls are made of shiny space-to-ground news con­stainless steel and the two large ference, Russian cosmonaut aluminum spheres have dull Sergei Krikalev said his coun­finishes so trackers can com­try's Mir space station is "much pare reflectivity. more comfortable" than the 
Radar can determine the size shuttle. But he said that's of larger space junk, such as because Mir was designed for dead satellites and spent rocket people to live in space, as bodies, but officials want to cal­opposed to NASA's up-and­ibrate the ground stations so down shuttles. the same thing can be done Commander Charles Bolden with small targets. Jr. said he and his American 
crew have benefited from 
Hundreds of thousands of Krikalev's knowledge of geog­such objects -anything from raphy. Krikalev, the first Rus­pieces of old spacecraft to tiny sian aboard a U.S. shuttle, meteorites -are always cir­spent more than a year on Mir. cling the globe at an average speed of 17,500 mph. "We've all been very anx­
NASA tried to release the iously floating by him in the balls from Discovery in 1992, window as he points out sites 
Senior Fonnal News 
Senior Formal tickets are on sale TODAYfrom 6:00-9:00 p.m. in the lobby ofLeMans Hall at Saint Mary)s College. 
Bids for the dance are $65°0 Also,
0 


don't miss the chance to buy tickets for Second City ( $12 °0 per person) and champagne glasses ( $5 °0 each) 

Thursday, February 10, 1994 
O'Donnell: SMC students want grad-school guidance 
ByPATfl CARSON Career and Counseling News Writer Department. "For the college student, ade­
Many students feel a need to quate preparation is absolutely have a mentor overseeing their essential in the graduate school graduate school admissions search," said Notre Dame grad­processes, according to Saint uate student Ann Carson. Mary's Vice President for Aca­demic Affairs Lynn O'Donnell. "If a student plans to further 
his or her education, then I'd 
"Some students are missing recommend looking into pro­deadlines and others are not grams by sophomore year or aware of grants and scholar­junior year at the latest," Car­ships for which they are eligi­son said. ble," said O'Donnell. 
The decision to attend gradu­
While some departments are ate or professional school en­very good, others are lacking compasses various responsi­when it comes to graduate bilities. It is imperative to do school preparation. The Ca­early research about career reer and Counseling Center is a possibilities that will be consis­valuable asset, but it cannot tent with long term goals, ac­provide all essential informa­cording to Carson. tion for the many students who All graduate schools and are pursuing different studies, professional schools have ad­she said. missions requirements. 
There is definitely an interest These might include a non­on the part of the students in refundable application fee, a improving graduate school specific GPA, official tran­guidance, according to O'Don­scripts, a certain undergradu­
nell. ate major, letters of recom­mendation and admission tests, By RANDOLPH SCHMID 
Multiple reasons exist for at­according to various career Associated Press tending graduate or profes­counselors. sional schools, such as receiv­WASHINGTON ing a deeper understanding of There are numerous re­The nation's largest mailers a certain field in order to sources through which gradu­urged a 10 percent rise in obtain a better job. Or possi­ate or professional school re­postal rates Wednesday, saying bly, those already employed search may be· conducted. higher rates are inevitable and want to increase their skills to Books, articles, and college they can accept an increase of perform more efficiently in bulletins are possible sources that size if the pain is shared their current position, accord­of information. equally.ing to O'Donnell. The across-the-board in­
Also, it is recommended to crease of 10.3 percent sug­
There are no guidelines check with the Career gested by a coalition of usually about when to attend profes­Resource Center or with per­competing groups would trans­sional or graduate schools. sonal advisors. Peterson's late into a 32-cent first class Many students who attend Guide to Graduate Programs stamp. That rate was raised 
school directly after receiving may be found in the St. Mary's from 25 to 29 cents in 1991. the bachelor's degree, howev­library. The board of governors of the er. benefit from the many U.S. Postal Service is expected 
sources of assistance available This may prove to be a help­to begin the long and complex in the junior and senior year, ful source in the early search process of raising rates late this according to the Saint Mary's for the right school. month or early in March, so 

Thanks for your patience during our "Under the Weather" week of January 14--21. Louisville was "shut down" and our trucks couldn't get to us. 
So enjoy ... 1 ... 14" Large Cheese Pizza 

00 
(additional toppings 95¢) 

Offer Good 

271~ 1177 The Most Popular N~ Thru an Campus! 4--13--94 
higher rates could take effect by early 1995. Suggested first­class stamp prices have ranged from 31 cents to 35 cents. 
The Postal Service "should get some credit for stretching the interval between rate in­creases to four years," said Art Sackler of the Mailers Council. 
Postal officials had no imme­diate reaction to the mailers' proposal. However, Postmaster General Marvin Runyon has said a 10.3 percent rate hike is one of the possibilities being considered. 
The coalition of groups rang­ing from advertising mailers to magazine publishers to banking groups and greeting-card man­ufacturers has agreed that each could live with an increase that size. 
But the increase must be the same for everyone, Sackler said. 
He noted that even the na­tion's newspapers and the di­rect-mail marketers were back­ing the plan, two groups that are normally fierce competitors when postage rates are de­bated. 
A higher rate proposal or a plan that wasn't the same for everyone would lead to "a full­blown effort in which everyone pulls out their knives and goes at each other," said Gene Del Polito of the Advertising Mail Marketing Association .. 
The independent Postal Rate Commission must pass on rate increase proposals, and tradi­tionally its 10-month process involves extensive legal spar­ring as various groups try to get lower rates for one class of mail and shift costs onto other class­es. 
That process costs the post office and the groups involved as much as $100 million, much of which could be saved by if all sides could agree on a rate hike that affected everyone the same, Sackler said. 
A 10.3 percent increase would provide the post office an additional $5 billion a year and should allow rates to remain unchanged for at least two years, said Sackler. 
While the current 29-cent rate will be in place four years before a new increase occurs, traditionally the post office has operated on a three-year cycle of making a profit one year, breaking even the next and los­ing money the third year, then raising rates and starting the cycle over. 

• 

page 6 The Observer • AIDS UPDATE Thursday, February I 0, I994 
U.S., Japan plan an AIDS population control project 
By RITA BEAMISH 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The United States and Japan plan to announce a multi-bil­lion-dollar AIDS and popula­tion-control effort and joint initiatives on environment and technology this week, in hopes of casting a positive light on what may be a stormy trade summit. 
Crucial talks aimed at narrowing America's huge deficit with Japan appeared deadlocked Wednesday only two days before President Clinton and Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa were to meet to sign an initial agreement. 
There was still hope for a last-minute breakthrough to salvage the discussions, but officials reported both sides were still far apart on the key matter in dispute -how to measure progress in opening Japan's markets to U.S. goods. 
While talks had been pro­gressing among lower level of­ficials earlier in the week, a 
U.S. official, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity, said that the American side walked away from the table Tuesday night, contending that the discussions were at an impasse. 
Although the main focus of Clinton's summit with Hosokawa on Friday is expect­ed to be trade, the two nations also have worked out a pack­age of agreements mostly relat­ing to environmental issues. 
The agreement on AIDS and population is aimed at helping poor countries slow their birth rates and combat AIDS. Japan will commit $3 billion by the end of the decade and the United States will pledge $9 bil­lion, said U.S. and Japanese of­ficials who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The two countries also are completing details on a joint project for environmental pro­tection and cleanup in Eastern Europe, and on efforts to pro­tect tropical forests in Asia. 
Japan will commit $1 billion toward environmental work in Eastern Europe. The United States is not making a fmancial commitment but will provide personnel and technical help, a senior administration official said. 
~ 
t 
Other agreements expected to be announced Friday involve coordinating research into global warming and develop­ment of high-speed rail tech­nology. 
The package of accords stems from an agreement by Clinton and then-Japanese Prime Min­ister Kiichi Miyazawa last year to discuss areas of cooperation beyond the stubborn trade is­sues. 
In an effort to get the stalled trade talks going again, Japan dispatched Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata to Washington a day early to meet with U.S. ne­gotiators before Hosokawa ar­rives. 
U.S. officials insisted they would not accept an agreement that only papered over differ­ences between the two nations as a way of giving Clinton and Hosokawa something to an­nounce on Friday. 
The officials repeated veiled threats made by Treasury Sec­retary Lloyd Bentsen in Tokyo last month that the United States would consider other op­tions if the framework negotia­tions aren't successful-a comment viewed as a threat to use trade sanctions against Japan. 
Under a "framework" trade agreement reached between Clinton and Miyazawa last July in Tokyo, Japan agreed to re­move barriers to the sale of for­eign products and to use "objective criteria" to measure progress in expanding foreign sales. 
However, U.S. and Japanese negotiators have spent the past six months arguing over what would constitute "objective cri­teria." The United States has insisted that without numerical benchmarks it would be impos­sible to measure Japan's com­pliance with its promises to open markets. 
The Japanese have assailed this approach as "managed trade." 
Without specific numerical guidelines. U.S. officials say, the current framework talks will go the way of 29 other trade agreements between the two countries reached in the past 14 years in which Japan's promises failed to result in sig­nificant increases in American sales. 
l 
Campus Interviews February 16, 1994 
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount Broker5M is 
t 
looking for motivated people to establish a career in 
l 
the brokerage business. 

OLDE offers: 12-18 month paid training program Potential six-figure income Excellent benefits
I t 
If you possess excellent communication skills, general market knowledge and the desire to excel, sign up for an on-campus interview on February 16, 1994 in the Career Center. · 
If you are unable to arrange an interview call: 
1 800 937-0606 
or send resume to: OLDE Discount Stockbrokers National Recruiting 751 Griswold Street Detroit. MI 48226 
~OLDE 
D~COUNTSTOCKBROKERS 
Member NYSE and SIPC 
An Equal Opportunity Employer I 
~------~~------------~. 

The Observer/ Dan McKillop 
Judy's Jam 

Judy Hutchinson, Breen Phillip's Hall rectress, sings at LaFortune Ballroom as part of "Catholics for Charity" Here she performs "Hammer and Nail." 
ANNE CUSICK 
of Diocese of Samoa ,. Pago Pago 
will be in LaFortune Student Center basement near the Society Bank on February I 2 from I 2:00 noon to 5:00 p.m. to speak with those students who might be interested in the two year teaching program in American Samoa. 

in the Hesburgh Library pm, reception to follow featured in the 1994 festival: 
•
Michael Harper (Sun. 2/13) 

•June 
Jordan (Mon. 2/14) 

•
Alison Lurie* (Tues. 2/15) 

•Charles 
Johnson (Wed. 2/16) 

•
Joy Harjo (Thurs. 2/17) 


*Frank Deford has been rescheduled for 4/13/94 
----~------~-­
Thursday, February 10, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page7 
Bitter winter freezes Great Lakes 
By JOHN FLESHER Associated Press 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. Great Lakes? Try Great Ice Fields. 
Parts of the five freshwater inland seas commonly freeze over in the dead of winter. But not since the late 1970s has ice been as widespread or thick as it is this winter. 
"For the last 10 years or so we've had some pretty wimpy winters," said Petty Officer Bob Morehead, a Coast Guard spokesman in Cleveland. "Looks like we're making up for it." 
Temperatures hovered around zero across the region Wednesday. The Lake Superior port of Duluth, Minn., reported a low of 20 below. 
Coast Guard icebreaking crews have freed 82 vessels ice­bound on Great Lakes wa­terways, more than in the past three years combined, spokesman David Sprunt said Wednesday. And there's still half a winter to go. That service is free and the Coast Guard said it didn't have a breakdown on what it cost taxpayers. 
Ice covered roughly 95 per­cent of Lake Superior and more than 90 percent of Lake Huron this week, according to the Na­tional Ice Center, which is run by the Navy, the Coast Guard and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 
That's not unusual for Huron. But Superior, with its wave-churned vastness and depths reaching 1,335 feet, seldom has more than two-thirds of its sur­face frozen, said oceanog­rapher Raymond Assel of the NOAA Great Lakes Environ­mental Research Laboratory in Ann Arbor. 
Lake Michigan was ringed by ice covering 60 percent to 70 percent of its surface, while Lake Ontario's cover ranged from 20 percent to 50 percent. The surface of Lake Erie, the shallowest with an average depth of 62 feet, has been al­most totally covered since mid­January. 
The last time so much of the lakes' surfaces were frozen was in 1978, another miserably cold year. 
"That year, we had all the lakes virtually iced over," said Daron Boyce, a National Weather Service forecaster in Cleveland. "That's a very rare case." 
Thickness varies widely, from a thin sheet to many feet. 
Most commercial shipping on the lakes routinely stops from late January until March 25, when the Soo Locks reopen. 
"If this continues, we're defi­nitely going to need help from the Coast Guard icebreakers," said Glen Nekvasil, spokesman for the Lake Carriers Associa­tion. "But we don't want to be scaring our customers into thinking we won't be able to resume shipping on time. March 25 is a long way off." 
Another potential danger is flooding if ice jams block chan­nels connecting the lakes, Assel said. Heavy ice also can cause shore erosion and damage structures such as docks. 
Such cares are far from Bob Warner's mind. The sheet­metal apprentice from L'Anse, Mich., spends every spare moment in a tent on Lake Su­perior's Keweenaw Bay, where he cuts through a foot of ice to fish for trout. 
"It's twice as thick as is it usually gets," Warner said. "There's a lot more people out this year. I've seen them drive right onto the ice, further out than I've ever seen." 
Winter tourism is up on Mackinac Island, a state park in the Straits of Mackinac where lakes Huron and Michigan con­nect. Snowmobilers cross thick ice between the island and the mainland town of St. Ignace 4 1/2 miles away. 
Residents of Beaver Island in northern Lake Michigan are beginning to worry about run­ning out of heating oil, which arrives by barge. 
"If we were going to have a normal spring we'd have enough to last, but with all this ice you don't know," said Bill McDonough, owner of a grocery store on the island, home to about 380 year-round resi­dents. 
But he's not complaining. 

"Separates the men from the boys," McDonough said with a chuckle. 

Once ztpon a time .. ~ 
Kevin Costner, Julia Roberts, Robin Williams~ and Robin Wright ...Brought your favorite Fairy Tales to life in: 
8:00 pm Robin Hood 
10:15 pm Pretty Woman 
12:15 am Aladdin 
1:45 am The Princess Bride 
Friday, February llin the LaFortune Ballroom FREE REFRESHMENTS 
It''s a FUN and FREE night with a HAPPY ENDING! 

Rose Law Firm denies report it shredded records 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Rose law firm where first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton was a partner shredded docu­ments last week relating to the Whitewater Development corporation, The Washington Times reported today. The firm emphatically denied the report. 
The paper cited as its source an unidentified Rose employee. President and Mrs. Clinton, along with James B. McDougal and his then-wife Susan, were partners in Whitewater, an Arkansas real estate venture. 
In Little Rock, Ronald M. Clark, managing partner of the · Rose firm, said the report of shredding Whitewater docu­ments was "totally false ... I am absolutely sure." 
"I am extremely upset that somebody would allege this," Clark said, adding his firm had "no significant documents" concerning the Whitewater de­velopment. 
The Washington Times said its executives were not imme­diately available for comment today. 
But the Little Rock office of Special Counsel Robert B. Fiske Jr. said the report would be­come part of its investigation into Whitewater and related matters. 
"Mr. Fiske is aware of The Washington Times report on shredding of documents. That will be investigated by his of­fice," said a staff assistant who would identify herself only as Joyce. 
Fiske, appointed Jan. 20 by Attorney General Janet Reno, is looking into -among other things -whether McDougal improperly diverted funds from the Madison Guaranty Savings Loan Association, which he controlled, to Whitewater and Clinton gubernatorial cam­paigns. 
Clark said the firm has kept documents, "in anticipation they will be requested," relat­ing to its former representation of Madison Guaranty and the federal regulators that took it over when it failed in 1989. The Rose firm, though, hasn't yet had any subpoenas or requests for records from federal inves­tigators, he said. 
The Times said it was not clear whether the reported shredding would violate state or federal laws. 
Associate Attorney General Webster L. Hubbell and the late White House Deputy Counsel Vincent Foster Jr., also were partners in the Little Rock law firm with Mrs. Clinton before moving to Washington to serve in the Clinton administration. 
Foster committed suicide and the White House has acknowl­edged that papers relating to Whitewater and other matters were taken from his White House office last July after his death and turned over to the Clinton's personal lawyer in Washington before they could be examined by officials inves­tigating his death. 
"There's absolutely no doubt that the records destroyed last Thursday were those the firm had on Whitewater," the Times quoted the Rose employee as saying. 

YOU CAN SEND YOUR 
"SPECIAL SOMEONE" 


A VALENTINE MESSAGE ON VALENTINES DAY FOR $20.00 
The ad would be this size and must be submitted by 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 10 to the advertising department for The Observer (3rd floor LaFortune) 

Forfurther informatioo, call 631 



SINGING VALENTINES 


1'1\fSENliD BYM . 
NOlRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
A 
$5.00 VALENTINE 
A lOv'E seN:; AN:> RID R!N DE1MRID IN PERSON TO YOJRSWEfll-lEART a-1CAMPUS. Sl.II'C BY ASEiiCT ffiOJP Cl' 1HE l'blRE DAME OH QUI. 
A $3.00 VALENTlNE 
A lOv'E SCN::; 1D A LOIED <N a-1 TI-E 1'1-!CNE ANYWHERE IN lHE lNTIDSTAlES. 

ON SALE FEB. 9TH. lOTH. & liTH AT NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HAllS. 


~ ~-----~ -~---~~------------------------.. 
page8 
The Observer • NEWS 
NATO n1oves toward ultifllatufll 
By PAUL AMES 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS, Belgium 

NATO ambassadors appeared close to approving a U.S.­French plan today giving Bosnian Serbs an ultimatum: Get rid of your artillery from around Sarajevo or face air strikes. 
Bosnian Serbs, apparently feeling the pressure, agreed to­day to withdraw their heavy weaponry beginning Thursday at noon from around the Bosnian capital and put it under U.N. monitoring, said the 
U.N. commander in Bosnia, Gen. Sir Michael Rose. 
It was unclear whether it was a tactical maneuver by Bosnian Serbs to avoid the threat of air strikes. Dozens of cease-fires have been agreed to and bro­ken in the 22-month-old con­flict. 
Under the U.S.-French plan, Serbs would be told to remove within a week or 10 days the more than 500 heavy guns that for nearly two years have been pounding Sarajevo. If they did­n't comply, NATO would carry out the strikes. 
NATO ambassadors were ex­pected to decide later today. A senior NATO diplomat told re­porters: "I heard nobody speak against the proposal for a fixed deadline." 
Canada, he said, remained concerned about possible reprisals against its 2,000 peacekeepers in the region and was insisting on safety guaran­tees for its soldiers if air strikes were carried out. 
Britain and Greece were hesi­tant about air strikes. But in Athens, Greek government spokesman Evangelos Venize­los said that Greece, which tra­ditionally has been sympathetic toward the Serbs, wouldn't op­pose a decision to carry out NATO air strikes. 
Britain's stance remained un­clear. In London, a spokesman for Prime Minister John Major said on condition of anonymity today that when Britain's final position emerges, it likely will have the support of all 16 NATO members, in indication Britain will go along with air strikes. 
Britain has the most peace­keepers in Bosnia after France. 
The discussions at NATO headquarters come five days after a mortar attack on Sara­jevo's central market killed 68 people and wounded about 
200. The attack horrified the world and highlighted Western 
1
NATO's Operation 

~ *.._
Deny Flight 1 
Current operations: 
• 
Since the start of Operation DenyFlight In April1993, NATO aircraft have effectively denied the use of airpower by all three warring factions as an instrument of war in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 

• 
As of February 1994, a total of 11,114 fighter, tanker and NATO Alrbome Early Warning (NAEW) No Fly-Zone sorties had been flown, which included 6,935 fighter missions over Bosnia-Herzegovina. 

• 
Almost 4,000 personnel from twelve NATO countries have been deployed. 


Threefold mission: II To conduct aerial monitoring and enforce compliance with UN Security Council Resolution 816 which bans flights by fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft in the airspace of Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
fol To provide protective air cover at the request of and control < by UNPROFOR under the provisions of UN SecurityCouncil Resolution 836. 
D To plan air strikes to aid UNPROFOR in their humanitarian relief operation if authorized by the North Atlantic Council (NAC) and in coordination with the UN. 
Source: NATO APIWm, J. Castello 
inability to take a forceful stance against the carnage. 
"It is time to act," NATO Sec­retary-General Manfred Wo­erner said earlier as he entered alliance headquarters. There have been "enough words." 
Any air strikes would be the first offensive military action by the alliance in its 44-year his­tory. 
Russia, while not a NATO member, has long-standing ties with the Serbs and opposes air strikes against them. 
In Sarajevo, in addition to the Serb agreement to withdraw its artillery, Bos-nian Serbs and the Muslim-led government agreed today to a cease-ftre to begin Thursday, said Rose, the 
U.N. commander in Bosnia. Several cease-fires in the past have been ignored. 
The NATO meeting comes in response to a request from U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for authority to call air strikes against artillery around Sarajevo because of Saturday's mortar attack. 
Bosnia's Muslim-led govern­ment charges the shell fired into a crowded marketplace was launched from the sur­rounding hills by Serb gunners, who have relentlessly shelled the city for months. Bosnian Serb leaders deny the shell was theirs, alleging the Muslims did it to gain Western sympathy. 
"All I can say is that this is a morbid, disgusting invention," Bosnian presidency spokesman Kemal Muftic, whose brother­in-law was killed in the mar­ketplace massacre, said of the Serb allegation. 
The latest allied discussions also touch on how extensive any bombing runs should be and possible targets, such as artillery positions, command and control communications fa­cilities, and communications lines. 
The alliance may use some 70 war planes from France, the Netherlands, Turkey, Britain and the United States. Based at southern European air bases, they now enforce a no-fly zone over Bosnia. 
The French Defense Ministry said today that the aircraft car­rier Foch, now in Toulon, has been put on alert to steam to the Adriatic Sea if needed to assist NATO allies. 
Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader, warned against any air strikes. 
"We will shoot down every plane we can" if attacked, he said. "In case of an attack, we cannot guarantee safety to any foreigner who finds himself on our territory." 
At a meeting Monday, the 12 European Union foreign minis­ters were again divided over the strikes and passed the issue along to the NATO alliance, bringing the United States and Canada into the debate. 
Canada has opposed air strikes, arguing these could im­peril the 2,000 Canadian U.N. soldiers in the region and en­courage Serbs to block delivery of humanitarian aid. 
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe, however, hinted that France may withdraw its peacekeeping contingent if NATO fails to act. France has been threatening since Decem­ber to remove its soldiers un­less the conflict shows signs of resolution. 
"If the alliance is incapable of making a decision, we will ask ourselves if we can continue to uselessly expose our soldiers," Juppe said on French television Tuesday. France is the largest contributor to the U.N. peace­keeping force in the former Yu­goslavia, with some 6,000 troops. 
SYRACUSE ABROA'D 
Looking for a good exchange rate to study abroad next semester? 

3.75 GPA and up=$1,500 Scholarship 3.50 GPA and up=$1,000 Scholarship Study abroad grants based on need also available. 
Syracuse University sponsors study abroad sites in Florence, Italy London, England Harare, Zimbabwe Madrid, Spain Strasbourg, France 
SU credit • Field trips/Traveling seminars • Internships • Study for a semester, year or summer Courses taught in English and in host country language 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD • 119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472. 315-443-3471 
Thursday, February 10, 1994 
·::.}$ 

··· · themselves in ....u•u•.•u"""' flag" and dis­playing false nationalism. "Sovereignty is in greater vu~:!••<''l>' ftghto\ler th~... dang~rwhen a nation is band~ pr(:l:St:Jrtce U.S. s0l<Uers burst,,,.. ed over to criminals and drug . ednesday when ···traffickers and the state does n;lll!!ilaeu.t·Cesar Gaviria angri· not have the capacity to y rejected a commission's respond," Gaviria told re-finding that inviting the oo · porters at the presidential was un~p~t:~titutionat, • . palac~. · The b?rinally pl&~! ·.·· avirta, ..• Gaviria, responding to a his voice trembling, said on question, said his statement national radio he would ignore did not imply that the mission Tuesday night's verdict by the . jn Juancbaco was anything Council,of State,.C()lornbia'. . ore than humanitarian. higbe$t a;uthority ot\govern• . . he Council of State held inenfadministration;tbat the that Gaviria violated the con· apprtixlrnately 250lJ.S. sol·· stitution and national sover­diers wete in Colo illegal· , ~ignty by inviting the troops ly,.. . . . ;;q~ .. ·· .. ··· .... iiiil .. Wj~!l.Rt!t its (tutborization. or ~§o SQl ~()stly/ ~~l'l~te permission. It ilas no cott)b . . . riee ..... ril Fort power to enforce its decisions. Rucker; Ala:, are in the Pacific The council forwarded its coastal dty of Ju,l).ncbaco on decision to a congressional what bo,s been hilled as a hu committee and the attorney m.·.A~.j.... .. .missio · build .. · her.al's o.f~ce for possible sehbol clinic··· action. Ga.viria's Liberal Party a l·oad" be mission raised ·· has a majority in Congress and suspicions because it'is in an he is likely to win any battle area wl:tere drug-~rafffpkers .there if one develops. It was and relu!)s operate. , tr .. ·.·.· not clear what action the Jtia.tlc~aco.lies 45 p:iiles west · attorney general might take. of Cali, ho&e ot tije·world'Sf Calls to his office went unan­biggestcocaine cartel. · swered. Othe~J).S. soldiers are main-... Gavlria said he deduced taifling'a U.S.·huilt radar sys,,,Hr [rom the council's "vague and tem tl).atp~s netted 9fug·tr.~r.: · ~ner• finding that he would ficking fligh~ and ate bUildiiig .· ha,ve to expel. every military a baae and training Colombian .attache serving with the soldiers to better fight drug · dozens of embassies in traltick~ts and guerrillas. . Colombia. which he called .... Th.e sold~~rs'. presence has .. surd." . ;, Pl'otupted wide'''C()tnplaints . ... aviria ascended to the that· Cqlombia's sovereignty esidency after the candidate wasbeing violated. be served as campaign man-Gaviria said Colombia need· ager was killed by the ed all tbll help it could get to Medellin cocaine cartel. He fight t~ powerful cocaine traf-now is confronting the Cali ftckers and accused opponents cartel. 

The excitement is building for our new, upscale dinner house serving outstanding steaks, prime rib and seafood. 
NOWIDRING ALL POSITIONS 
We're looking for energetic, dynamic individuals who share our enthusiasm for the business. "Mountains" of experience not necessary. Working a flexible schedule in our exciting environment, you will receive: 
Generous Pay • Health Insurance Meal Discount • Profit Sharing Stock Purchase Plan 
Time is running out-don't miss your chance to get on board! For an immediate interview, please apply at 6402 N. Grape Road (formerly Jeremiah Sweeney's), Mishawaka, Daily, 9am-7pm. (Please use East entrance, located at rear of building).lnterviews end Thursday, Feb. 1Oth, training starts Friday, Feb. 11th. 
Opening March 1st!!!! 

Thursday, February 10, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

The Observer/ Dan McKillop 
Law Student Scott Hardy had his haircut yesterday by barber Frank Franco in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. 
Clinton unveils anti-drug plan 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton unveiled an anti-drug plan today that puts added emphasis on treatment and prevention, calling it an ap­proach that is "both smart and tough." 
"No nation can fight crime and drugs without dealing hon­estly and forthrightly with the problem of drug addiction," Clinton said. 
The president unveiled his anti-drug strategy in an ap­pearance at the Prince George's County Correctional Center in suburban Maryland, speaking to jail inmates and local, state and federal officials. 
"I wanted to come here to il­lustrate that this is an issue that must be dealt with person by person, one at a time," Clinton said. "It's a very human problem." He noted that his own family has had to grapple with alcoholism and drug abuse -his mother married a man who was an alcoholic; his half­brother was imprisoned for drug violations. 
"What we are trying to do to-

You Are Invited to Attend 
"Winning in the Value-Conscious '90s'' 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation on the Key to Creating and Leveraging Consumer Value 
Featuring 
Mike Milligan 
Senior Vice President 
New Date: Tuesday, February 15 
5:30p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Rescheduled from january 20, due to inclement weather. We apologize for any inconvenience. 
Reception immediately following. Food and beverages will be served. Dress is casual. Students from all majors welcome. 
Meet P&G managers from: 
• 
Finance 

• 
Sales 


• 
Management Systems 

• 
Product Development 

• 
Product Supply 

• 
Brand Management 



Procler&Gamb/e 
day is to start our government on a course that offers the promise of real results to the American people," Clinton said. " ... We need an approach to both crime and drugs that is both tough and smart. We very often have one without the other and we pay the price for that." 
Overall, the $13.2 billion strategy would increase anti­drug funding by $1 billion ­the first increase in anti-drug spending in two years. It also represents a departure from the drug-fighting philosophy of the Bush administration. 
The plan increases spending for prevention and treatment by $826.5 million -or 18.2 percent-to $5.4 billion. 
Clinton said the plan seeks to put 140,000 more hard-core drug users into drug treatment in the next year. 
"Drug treatment reduces criminality, it's just that sim­ple," said Vice President Al Gore. He added that treatment programs "are producing tremendous success in an area that used to be fraught with hopelessness and despair." 
"This is a realistic, balanced approach to dealing with the drug problem," said Lee Brown, the administration's di­rector of the drug control poli­cy. "And despite tough fiscal times, it is backed by the funds required to put it into action. It is the most comprehensive strategy ever." 
The plan immediately drew criticism from some in Congress. 
Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, said it would serve as "wei­come mat for drug thugs." 
"Not surprisingly, it reflects a fundamental view of most Democrats that when things go wrong, society is to blame and more social programs are the answer," Gramm said in a statement. 
"Once it occurs, drug addic­tion has to be overcome one person at a time," Clinton said, referring a second time to the problems in his own family. "We're not going to make a dent in this problem except by having it happen one person at a time." 
Money for drug supply reduc­tion, which includes domestic law enforcement and interna­tional interdiction, would grow by $217.1 million, a 2.9 percent increase to $7.8 billion. How­ever. interdiction funding would fall 7.3 percent. 
Fifty-nine percent of the plan's spending would be for cutting drug supplies and 41 percent on reducing demand. That moves closer to the 50-50 balance sought by critics of the 70-30 ratio that was in place at the start of the Bush adminis­tration. 
Clinton said his strategy was directed at "the most tenacious and damaging aspect of Ameri­ca's drug use problem ­chronic, hard-core drug use and the violence it spawns," while retaining "an aggressive role for law enforcement." 
To put the strategy into action, Clinton will ask Congress to set aside money to put 100,000 new police officers on the streets, for safe-schools proposals and for treatment of imprisoned addicts. 
Happy 21st Birthday Maria Schirripa 
Love, Mom, Dad, Tony &CeCe 

Thinking ofdoing ayearofservice? How about doing it 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley. C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon. C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Bm 541. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219! 631-63H5 
page 10 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 10, 1994 
First all-race election brings new strategies 
Security agreements reached By G.G. LaBELLE Associated Press  
CAIRO Yasser Arafat and Shimon Peres, Israel's foreign minis­ter, reached agreement Wednesday on some critical security issues that have stalled the Israeli-PLO peace accord. Peres said he and the PLO chairman had settled "five or six of the most complicated issues" involved in turning over control of the occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho to the Palestinians. But Peres added, "We didn't complete our work." The final deal is to be negotiated between Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. The two sides were hag­gling over control of the crossings from the autonomous Palestinian areas to Egypt and Jordan, security for Jewish settlers who remain in Gaza and how much land around Jericho would be ceded to Palestinian control. Among the issues left for Arafat and Rabin to decide was the size of the Jericho area, Peres said. Still, Arafat said the new pact was "a very important step to implement the agree­ment from paper to the ground. "We can say that Palestine -and the name of Palestine -has returned to the map of the Middle East," he added. Peres and Arafat initialed a 21-page document, complete with maps, at a ceremony hosted by Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak at the end of three days of talks. As the two were speaking in Cairo, members of the World Jewish Congress in Washington got word of the agreement from President Clinton. "Another big milestone has been achieved today." Clinton said. Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa had worked late into the night to smooth over last-minute disputes between Peres and Arafat, amid reports Peres was seeking approval from Rabin. The negotiations since Monday have included at least seven sessions between Arafat and Peres. Neither has given details on the talks. Mter the ceremony. Arafat and Peres each shook hands with Mubarak and then, in Middle Eastern fashion, kissed him on both cheeks.  
Hav ClJSI:OM..GENERAL & MAJOR CLEANING SPECIAUZINGIN: FINE HOMES • OFFICES APARTMENTS e COM\ff:RCI.~L INSURED • BONDED REFERENCES A VAl LADLE FREE ESTIMATES "CARPET CLEA!'ilNG A\'AILABLE" PHONE: (llt)ll«i'-'1  

By TOM COHEN 
Associated Press 

JOHANNESBURG 
It was a sight never seen be­fore -a white South African president in tribal garb, bran­dishing a cowhide shield and wooden club as cameras clicked away. 
The campaign appearance by President F.W. de Klerk would have been unthinkable in the heyday of apartheid. when whites ruled unchecked and made no pretensions about ap­peasing blacks. 
That's all changed now, with the black majority -more than 75 percent of the population ­preparing to vote for the first time in all-race elections April 26-28. 
The black vote will decide 
who leads the first post­apartheid government, and observers believe most blacks support the African National Congress. Initial polls indicate the ANC, which spearheaded opposition to white rule for more than 80 years, could win more than 60 percent of the vote. 
A new constitution drafted by de Klerk's National Party gov­ernment, the ANC and other groups gives substantial power to a majority party. 
So de Klerk and others are battling for black support in hopes of preventing an ANC majority. 
That appears unlikely. Hatred of the National Party, which created apartheid, runs deep in black areas. Pro-apartheid whites and some conservative black groups, united in opposi­tion to the ANC. may boycott the vote. 
ANC leader Nelson Mandela, who spent 27 years in prison until de Klerk freed him four years ago, is a national hero mobbed by crowds wherever he goes. 
"The person who can govern the best is the person who will suffer with the people," said ANC supporter Boiek Mashele, 26. 
Such popularity convinces the ANC it only needs a strong turnout by black voters in order to win. 
But obstacles abound in a nation where blacks have never voted, are mostly illiterate and live in townships wracked by political violence that killed more than 3,000 people last year. 
The ANC campaign empha­sizes voter education, with posters of sample ballots and calls for everyone to get proper identification so they can vote. 
Mandela is holding a series of forums in which audience members can ask him ques­tions. 
People's forums are "an im­portant new departure for South African politics," said ANC information director Pallo Jordan. 
"It is unusual for politicians to be talked at by people on the ground." 
The National Party, mean­while, is waging an anti-ANC campaign in a bid to draw sup­porters from various groups ­black and white -who oppose the ANC. 

AMANDATORY MEETING FOR THOSE INTERESTED IN RUNNING FOR:
~ 
I~STUDENT SENATE ~CLASS OFFICE ~FF·CAMPUS CO·PRESIDENT 
THURS.kFEB. lOth at 7:30p.m.
FOSTER OOM, 3rd Floor LaFortune 
GRADUATE STUDENT LENTEN RETREAT 
Friday, February 18-Saturday, February 19 8:00p.m. (24 hours) 8:00 p.tn. 
A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students and will focus on the Sunday Gospels of Lent. 
Place: Crowe House, on the shore of Lake Michigan, 30 miles northwest of Notre Dame. 
Planning: All graduate students interested in this retreat are invited and urged to attend a 30 minute meeting Tuesday. February 15, at 7:00p.m., in the Fischer Graduate Community Center. 
Deadline: Reservations for the twelve available places will be accepted until Tuesday, February 15. 
Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-8606 or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. Cost $15.00 for the cost of meals and snacks. 

0MPUS 
t\IJNI5TRY 

By lAURA KING  for  a breakthrough appeared  But despite fanfare  over its  
Associated Press  slim. With classic Japanese un­ announcement Wednesday, the  
derstatement, Foreign Minister  package got only a lukewarm  
TOKYO  Tsutomu Hata told reporters  reception at home and over­ 
The way things have been go­ Wednesday the discussions had  seas.  
ing lately, Prime Minister Mori­ been "rather difficult."  With things looking bad on  
hiro Hosokawa is probably glad  Mindful of that, the Tokyo  the trade and economic front,  
to get out of town. Political in­ government is already arguing  the Japanese side is playing up  
fighting,  a  rotten economy,  that the summit could be a suc­ cooperation on other issues.  
trade battles, slipping popular­ cess even if the trade deadlock  Chief among them are regional  
ity  - it's been  a  bad few  isn't broken and that the two  security and diplomacy, espe­ 
months.  leaders had plenty else to talk  cially in light of the nuclear  
But Hosokawa, who heads to  about.  standoff in North Korea.  
Washington Thursday for his first summit with President  But trade is the summit's cen­terpiece, and the stakes are  This is the first summit for the two leaders, although they  
Clinton the next day, isn't leav­ high. If sufficiently provoked,  spoke last year when Hosokawa  
ing his  troubles  behind in  the U.S. side could employ  traveled to New York for the  
Tokyo. They're taking this road  sanctions -or start talking up  U.N. General Assembly. Casting  
trip with him.  the yen again.  a pall on the talks is the possi­ 
In the first months after his  The  Japanese currency's  bility that Hosokawa's govern­ 
government succeeded the long-ruling, corruption-ridden  rapid appreciation last year has ravaged Japanese companies'  ment might not survive long enough for him to meet Clinton  
Liberal Democrats, Hosokawa  export earnings, forcing them  again.  
was the most popular prime minister in Japanese history.  to cut their work forces and move production overseas,  In recent battles over opening Japan's rice market, political  
Telegenic and reform-mind­ eroding the country's industrial  reform and  tax  policy,  the  
ed, the descendant of a distin­ base.  prime minister's seven-party  
guished samurai clan and a  Japan is urging the United  coalition either gave him grudg­ 
generation younger than his  States to avoid harsh measures  ing support -or betrayed him  
predecessors, the 56-year-old  -but in terms that are really a  outright. That has repeatedly  
leader captured the public  veiled warning. "This would be  raised the threat of the coali­ 
imagination.  counterproductive," said a top  tion's collapse.  
But now his ability to lead is  official. Translation: An all-out  Amid the nonstop political  
being questioned even by allies.  trade war would be devastating  crises,  polls  indicate  
Whatever personal warmth  for both sides.  Hosokawa's approval ratings  
might come out of the meeting,  Hosokawa fought hard this  have taken a double-digit drop  
it's painfully apparent that  week to bring a peace offering  since the start of the year. They  
Thursday, Feb. 10-Intradonn Snow Sculpting  Hosokawa's 6-month-old gov­ to Washington: a 15-trillion-yen  now stand at around 50 per­ 
Contest  ernment has done little to im­prove the worst problem in  ($140 billion) economic stimu­lus package. The United States  cent. The government is trying to  
Friday, Feb. 11-All night movies­Grown-up Fairy tales  8pm-3am  Tokyo-Washington relations: Japan's $50 billion trade sur­plus with the United States.  had called for such measures on the theory that a healthier Japanese economy would spur  cast the political chaos in a fa­vorable light. Yes, top officials say, things have been unstable  
Saturday, Feb.12-Mardi Gras Party LaFortune Ballroom 9pm-1am  The two sides are still hoping to have a major trade accord in hand by the time the leaders sit  consumer demand for U.S. goods and help bring down the surplus.  -but that's because Hosokawa is making historic transforma­tions in hidebound Japan.  
Sunday, Feb.13-Free Skating at the JACC A 2:30-4:30pm Skate Rental included '\7' Questions?? Call the S.U.B. Hotline at 1-6171  ~ ~  down to talk, aimed at improv­ing foreign access to specific sectors of the Japanese market. Negotiators continued to work in Washington, but prospects  The prime minister sent a message to Clinton saying he hoped the recovery plan would be seen as a sign of good faith on Japan's part.  Several events on Hosokawa's Washington schedule appear designed to get maximum sym­bolic mileage out of his strong points.  

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Hosokawa beset by political woe~ 
is now accepting applications for the 
1994-95 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to jake Peters by Thursday, Feb. 10 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, over­sees the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
--------------------------------------------------~ 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoinr 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 63I-5303 Business Office 63I-5313 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 63I-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

"On the Beach u  is an expres­ after reading the students'  Be prepared to deal with rea­ 
sion used in the consulting field  resumes  and  meeting with  sons you selected the college  
referring to an employee that is  them.  In a  nutshell, the on­ you attend, your major,  honors  
between consulting assign­ campus recruiter is looking for  you may have earned, primary  
ments.  Lately, however, the  "the difference."  To be differ­ interests in life, school activities  
phrase has become synony­ ent and to be the one student  you've participated in, books  
mous with "out of work. u  In his  that makes the cut, you have to  you've recently read, and the  
column,  Employment  and  do your homework. First get to  old favorite, "How would you  
Human Resource consultant  know the company.  I can't  describe success?"  Obviously,  
Bill Beach will answer your  stress how important it is to  the more comfortable you are  
questions  about  your  job  have some prior knowledge of  with your "product knowledge,"  
search,  resume writing, inter­ the company and its perfor­ the more staying power in your  
view preparation, and other  mance.  Whether you obtain  presentation of yourself you  
related questions you may have  your facts from Fortune 500 or  will be able to project.  Like it  
if you find yourself "on the  Fortune  1000  Directory,  or not, 7 5 to 85 percent of what  
beach" now or after gradua­ Moody's Industrial Manual, or  you say to the recruiter will be  
tion.  Standard and Poors Register of  forgotten within an hour.  What  
c :I;~e g ::.9/  will be remem­bered is  
senior, and  \  your enthu­ 
I'd  like  '  siasm, con­ 
s  o m  e  fidence,  
advice  on  dependabil­ 
how  to  ity, honesty  
prepare  a  n  d  
for  on­ \assertive­ 
campus  . ness.  
~~wts?~'  r  -..(_~  ~  Dealing with college  
College  -......:::::ro"""''l'•­ recruiters  
recruiters  a  n  d  
that  con­ attempting  
duct on-campus interviews  Corporations, spend some time  to land your first job after grad­ 
should  be  taken seriously.  learning about the company, its  uation is, in itself, a major job.  
Unless you  can  sufficiently  size, sales, net income and  Remain self confident, even  
impress the recruiter, your  product(s).  Dun's Employment  though you may feel frustrated  
chances  of  continuing  the  Opportunities Directory/The  and helpless.  Always look and  
process with their company is  Career Guide is another excel­ act as though you take yourself  
hopeless.  This fact that today's  lent source of information.  seriously.  If you don't, why  
job market is still tight makes  should anyone else?  Finally,  
college recruiters very demand­ The other research you need  heed the advice of David, and  
ing and selective.  As an on­ to do is on yourself.  The more  pray to the Lord for wisdom  
campus recruiter, these individ­ you know about yourself, the  and guidance.  
uals meet thousands of stu­ more confident you will be dur­ 
dents, and because of this,  ing the interview.  Remember  Beach's column was original­ 
many will develop an ability to  in  the  interview  with  the  ly printed in The Elkart Truth.  
quickly judge.  recruiter, you are the product.  If you have a question for Bill  
The  more  you  know  about  Beach  send  it  to  "On  the  
As terrible as it sounds, I've  yourself, the  more effective  Beach," P.O.  Box 63,  Notre  
had college recruiters tell me  you'11 be in selling yourself.  Dame, IN 46556-0063 or to The  
that their minds  are  fairly  Relive your successes, and  Observer, "On the Beach," P.O.  
made up within a few minutes  rehearse talking about them.  Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556.  

~---~ 
~ ------------~-~~--~­

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, February 10, 1994 




THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry  Ad Design Manager ...................... Sreph Goldman  
Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters  OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra­tion ofeither instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through le££ers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Ifa man hasn't discovered 
something that he will die for, he isn't fit to live.'' 
--Martin Luther King, Jr. 

BILL BEACH ON THE BEACH 
Preparation key to good interview 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Unexpected friendships found in Summer Service 
Dear Editor: 

Perhaps you have heard of or about the Summer Service Project program from friends or people in your dorms, and you know the basic facts. In this letter, however, I would like to appeal to you from a dif­ferent view of a Summer Service Project. 
I went into my project last summer in Baltimore with the expectation of solidarity and self-sacrifice. I had done ser­vice work before, so I had ex­perienced the joy of helping others. I was looking forward to working at Beans and Bread, the meal and outreach program I was to become a part of. Yet,my mind held fast to the idea of independence and sim­ple living, which were not neg­ative ideas in my brain, but demanding ones. I perceived 
'yet, my mind held 

fast to the idea of independence and sim­ple living, which were not negative ideas in my brain, but demanding ones.' 
my eight weeks as work, which made even more sense because of the scholarship I was receiv­ing. That, however, was before I went. 
Those eight weeks were any­thing but an experience alone. I found myself in an environment conducive only to community and human connection. I relat­ed to people I never foresaw relating to, like a Native 
' Meeting people, sharing experi­ences, and building rela­tionships are what the Summer Service Project Program is all about.' 
American man from South Dakota (quite a bonding ex­perience in Baltimore, as I am from Nebraska), a Vietnam vet­eran and a twenty-eight year old woman with four children whose ages ranged from two to eleven. I not only interacted with the people I served at Beans and Bread, but also the alumni who supported me and the others who were giving themselves to service along with me. 
My Summer Service Project became defined by the relation­ships I developed, in which learning, loving, and laughing were fully given and received. Meeting people, sharing experi­ences, and building relation­ships are what it is all about. And while some relationships can drain you, most will ener­gize you and make it quite diffi­cult to say good-bye after a mere eight weeks. 
AMY VOSBURG Junior Lyons Hall 

-~------­
ACCENT 
Thursday, February 10, 1994 knowledge of the subject mat­ter," said Gad-el-Hak. 


"The students were very enthusiastic," he continued. "They wanted to appear knowl­edgeable, so they were forced to learn, read and study." 
By the time each group began to focus its efforts on the par­ticular households, they were experts about energy efficiency, according to Gad-el-Hak. 
The architecture students were forced to apply the facts and ideas from the books they had read to real life circum­stances. 
Employing their knowledge, the students audited the energy use of each household, deter­mining how the families could save more money while helping to conserve the environment. 
No longer did these students have to question the necessity of the information they had learned. 
Their direct application of their classroom learning to real-life situations exhibited the abilities they had obtained, 
ARcHy sTudENTS GET THEiR HANds diRTY iN HousiNG SERVICE pROJECT 
By LARISSA HERCZEG 
Accent Writer 
How is calculus going to be necessary in my life as a gov­ernment major? Why are vec­tors essential to my future as a novelist? Will a fine arts class really contribute to my career as an astrophysicist? 
These questions, and many 
'The close working 
relationship between students and families benefitted the students' knowledge of the subject matter.' 
Mohamed Gad-ei-Hak 
other similar ones, often race through students' minds as they struggle to stay awake during a boring lecture. 
The Notre Dame School of Architecture, in conjunction with the Engineering program, has discovered a way to main­tain interest while demonstrat­ing exactly how the skills stu­dents are learning will enter into their lives after college. 
The two department have worked together to formulate the basis for a new class, Environmental Services. 
The course, offered to fourth­year architecture students, requires students to work together in small groups to improve the heating, cooling and electrical problems arising in many lower-income homes. 
Taught by aerospace and me­chanical engineering professor Mohamed Gad-el-Hak, the pur­pose of the course is for stu­dents to use their skills to help out the community. 
The idea for the class stems from workshops offered at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The Center for Social Concerns emphasizes the need for students to learn about the neighboring community and to use their skills to assist others. 
"The new project fits with the Notre Dame philosophy about service, and with the mission of the Center for Social Concerns," said Gad-el-Hak. 
Gad-el-Hak's idea came to fruition last semester when 36 students enrolled in the course. 
The students then worked with South Bend housing authorities to determine which low-incomes homes would be receptive to the idea. 
Finally, twenty homes were selected and the participating students were divided into six separate groups to work more closely with the families. 
Students spent the first part of the semester learning about different energy-efficient meth­ods and gaining an in-depth knowledge of the subject. 
After mastering the essen­tials, the students inspected the individual homes. 
"The close working relation­ship between students and fam­ilies benefited the students' which eventually enabled them to solve the energy problems. 
All the students participating in the program feel they bene­fited from the experience, said Gad-el-Hak. 
"Students gained insight not only into how books and study­ing translate into real-life skills, but they also gained insight into their futures as architects," he added. 
Gad-el-Hak did acknowledge that entering peoples homes may elicit some uncomfortable feelings for students. 
"I presented them with an al­ternative project if they were too uncomfortable with this one," he explained. 
"However, all the students were very enthusiastic and glad to be working on a project of this nature. They were all happy to help out the communi­ty." 
Therese de Veyra, a second­year architecture student, said she is looking forward to partic­ipating in the program and tak­ing the class. 
"Although we build models and complete drawings, actu­ally putting my skills to use in the community will be very re­warding," said de Veyra. 
"It will prove that we have learned a lot, and as architects we have a lot to offer the com­munity." 
The participating households were very receptive. 
"People were always very kind and welcoming to the stu­dents. The community under­stood the students were provid­ing a worthwhile service," said Gad-el-Hak. 
Although successful, it is not 
certain that the class will be of­
fered again, according to Gad­
el-Hak. 
"I would like to offer a similar 
class next year, but the course's 
future is up in the air." 
Perhaps, once again, students 
will have to revert to question­
ing their knowledge and ques­
tioning its application in the 
real world, rather than be able 
to help themselves and others 
by demonstrating their skills 
and putting their learning into 
useful practice. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 1 0, 1994 
-· 
Harding refuses to back down, files lawsuit against USOC 
By LARRY SIDDONS 
Associated Press 

LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
Tonya Harding filed a $20 million lawsuit Wednesday seeking to block the U.S. Olympic Committee from inter­fering with her participation in the Winter Games. 
The lawsuit, filed in Clackamas County Circuit Court in Oregon City, contends that Harding has complied with all rules and regulations of the 
U.S. Figure Skating Association and should be allowed to com­pete in the Games. 
The USOC has scheduled a hearing for Feb. 15 to deter­mine whether Harding's role in the attack on rival skater Nancy Kerrigan violated Olympic ethics. 
The suit, which seeks $20 mil­lion in punitive damages, says persons close to Harding have been charged with conspiracy in the Kerrigan assault, but that no charges are filed against her. 
Earlier, in a television inter­view, Harding vowed she would go to the Olympics, win a gold medal and "hang it on my wall forever." 
She also said that if given the chance, she would give Kerrigan a hug, "if she'll let me." 
Accompanying his client as she left a TV taping in Portland, Ore., attorney Bob Weaver had said he would issue a statement soon as to whether she would appear before the USOC's Games Administrative Board. 
The USOC was notified Tuesday by Harding's ex-hus­band, Jeff Gillooly, that he was willing to testify before the board provided he received permission from the Mult­nomah County (Ore.) district attorney to travel as well as ex­penses and legal fees. 
The committee, through attor­ney Peter Alkalay, requested that Gillooly be made available to testify before the board. The request was made in a letter sent Tuesday to Gillooly's attor­ney, Ron Hoe vet. 
Gillooly pleaded guilty to a charge of racketeering in con­nection with the Kerrigan attack and implicated Harding as one of the plotters. He has agreed to serve two years in prison and pay a $100,000 fine as part of a plea bargain. 
Gillooly also asked that the results of a lie detector test he took be made public and given to the USOC. A hearing on Gillooly's request was set for Thursday. Multnomah County district attorney Michael Schrunk said, "I can't imagine" opposing the motion. 
In an interview with "Inside Edition" set for broadcast on Thursday and Friday, Harding said: ''I'm going to the Olympics. I'm going to win a gold medal. And, I'm going to hang it on my wall forever." 
She also said that given the chance, she would apologize to Kerrigan. 'Til tell her that I'm really sorry that this has hap­pened and that I always wish her the best and, hopefully, she'll forgive me for ali this crap that's going on. 
"Maybe (I'll) give her a hug. If she'lllet me." 
Harding said winning a gold medal was important to her for reasons other than money. 
"If it all ended tomorrow and I had a gold medal in my hand with the people I'm surrounded with now, my life would be complete." 
After avoiding comment for days, Harding also was inter­viewed for "Eye to Eye With Connie Chung," set for broad­cast Thursday. She maintained her innocence and said she no longer loved Gillooly because "if somebody loved me, they wouldn't do this to me." 
She also said: "I can't let this ruin me. I've worked too hard, too long, 20 years." 
Harding, the 23-year-old U.S. figure skating champion, was still scheduled to arrive in Norway next Wednesday, the day after the hearing is to begin. 
Her absence probably would not change the USOC's plans, executive director Harvey Schiller said, but it might not help her cause. 
"My expectation would be that the board would consider all the information they have ... in light of her non-ap­pearance," he said. 
Harding's reluctance to appear before the USOC hear­ing could stem from the fact that any testimony could be used against her in the criminal investigation still under way in Oregon. 
Schiller said Gillooly was one of several prospective witnesses contacted by the USOC about their availability to testify in Oslo. He stressed that it was not certain Gillooly would be called. 
"The burden of proof is on the USOC, not on Miss Harding," Schiller said. 
Earlier, he said Harding's attorney had not given the USOC a specific date for her arrival. One thing is certain ­Harding will not be on hand for the parade of athletes at Satur­day's opening ceremonies. 
"That's not unusual," Schiller said. "At previous Olympic Games, figure skaters as well as other athletes, for a variety of reasons, have arrived later than opening ceremonies." 
Women's figure skating begins Feb. 2 3, two days after the deadline for finalizing the line­up. The USOC hearing could determine if 13-year-old Michelle Kwan, the top alter­nate, gets to skate on Olympic ice. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard ' 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST -Has anyone seen my neck­lace under all this snow? Gold chain with 3 gold letters: 
Has anyone seen my necklace somewhere under all this snow? Gold chain with three gold letters A­R-1 , has great sentimental value. Will give reward and be eternally grateful to finder. Please call Ari @ 259-Q219 w/ any info. 
Lost: gold chain with two lockets Thurs. aftemoon-213-near b-ball courts in ACC next to ice rink. Great personal value. If found, please call Sanmit at 1684 
Blue sweatshirt with gold Irish let­tering lost either outside or in the basement of LaFortune. Call X1882 
WANTED 
****SPRING BREAK '94**** Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padrel 110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. 
Need ride to St. Louis any week­end!!!! Will pay for gas!! Call Mindy 284-5417 
Need one extra JPW ticket for all events DESPERATELY!!!!!!!! Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506 
Need ride to Washington D.C. for 
Spring Break(Mar.S-12113). Will 
help pay for gas and tolls. Call 
Katie X 4594. 
Desperate! Need ride to Daytona 
Beach for Spring Break. Price is 
negotiable. Please call Roger at 
3508! 
HELP! 
Need ride to IU, Bloom 
on Fri. 2-11 to see my 
Valentine! Will pay for gas. 
Call Jen at x4109. 
SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ in salary & benefits. Ski/Snowboard instructors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet staff + other positions (including summer). Over 15,000 openings. For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V5584 Campus newspaper carrier/manag­er needed immediately for St. Mary's campus, call City News Service Inc., 232-3205. 

Home delivery newspaper carriers needed for morning delivery, car required. Call City News Service Inc., 232-3205. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 
Help! 4 desperate girls need ride to Long Island or NYC for Spring Break. Will pay gas, tolls, etc. Callx4881 
COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­SON, coed Massachusetts. Swimming, tennis, land/water sports, arts/crafts, theatre, wood­working, rocketry, archery, comput­er, yearbook, photography, video, radio, more! Super kids, great food, friendly, fun! No general coun­selors. 800-955-CAMP. 
SITTER NEEDED My Juniper Rd home, 2 yr old & infant, 4/hr, SAT 1­5, some Fri or SAT NITES. Prefer early ED Maj but will consider all. Must have car & refs. 273-0582 
Brunos needs waitresses. Must be 
21 and able to work weekends. 
Please call288-3320 for interview. 
NEEDED: 
SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 
NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, Poughkeepsie pref. Will help $. Please call Brian or Jason x1130 
FORRENT 
I 
._Fu_R_N-IS-HE_D_R_o_o_M-.A-IR-._______. 
KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF 
CAMPUS. 272-0615 
FURNISHED 8 BEDROOM HOME GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­APPROVED HOMES-JPW, GRAD., etc. •219-291-7153• 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM 
ALL APPLIANCES 
112 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
232 2595 
PARTY TIME '94-95 Big 6 bednn. Safe area. Free maid sevice. Beach V-ball & B. B. courts. Furnished. Washer & dryer. 273-0482 or 234-3831. 
FOR SALE 

Stu BB Tix 4 2111 x4097 
TICKETS 

I have an extra ticket to Garth!! Call Sean at x3102 and give best offer! 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 1 JPW TICKET TO ALL OR SOME EVENTS! CALL MEGAN 4-2630 
Need to trade two Garth Brooks tickets for Sun. 13to Sat. 12. Call x2126/x3219 
Begging you to trade your Sat. Garth tix for my Sun. tix Patrice 232-5030 
Plane Ticket to Boston for Spring Break -REALLY CHEAP. call Alex at x1679 
2 tickets to the Sun. Garth concert for sale! Call with your best offer at x3610 
Unused Amtrak tix one-way to L.A.San Diego March 4 $50 273­4868 
I NEED GARTH TICKETS BAD! Brian -1n2 
2 TICKETS FOR GARTH BROOKS! SUNDAY SHOW CALL WITH BEST OFFER LISA X1283 
IL,.__P_E_R_s_o_N_AL___, 
· ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. 
SPRING BREAK! Student Holidays, the nation's 
leader in Spring Break vacations offering the ultimate trip to 
CANCUN, MEXICO! 
The #1 Student Spring Break 
Destination from $399 
Package includes hotel, flight 
and parties! Organize a small 
group and travel for FREE! 
CALL RICHI1-800-360-TRIP 
TODAY IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO SCAM! Sign up for SNAP-A­SCAM during dinner hours today at SDH and NDH. 
HEY TAYLOR YOU BETTER NOT FORGET ABOUT OUR DATE TONIGHT. ...no lame excuses, no postponements, or rain dates, or clever evasions of our date...it's you and me, my little chick-a-dee ... l'm all yours, sweetheart, all yours. Jamie 
valentines day special university hairstylist $2.00 off any service monday feb. 14th 9am-9pm 631-5144 
SEND SOME LOVE! 
U.P.S. a Valentine to your Sweetheart thru THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LaFortune Lower Level 
M-F 10-5 Sat.11-4 

BEWARE! One day I was illegally parking my car in some parking loti wasn't sup­posed to be in, figuring, there's so many cars here how could ND police ever find my one tiny car? 
Then I remembered, ND Security people have no life. My mistake. 
Bands -free 8-track recording (1 song) -must call by Sat. call Tim, 273-6142 •••••••••••••••• 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­
TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­786-8373 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free 
Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 
1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! 
Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 
days on the beach! We have the 
best trips & prices! Includes air & 
hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­678-6386 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Medllegal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 
•••••••*BEAT THE RUSH'''''''' VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching, and if you want to write a classified to that special someone, you can type your ad now. Your message will appear in the special Valentine's Observer on Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. 
So did you get the gist of the puz­zle/ Senior Bar Ads?? 
If you want GREAT specials figure them out and uncover the best kept secret in town!! II! 
Deals! Deals! Deals! Deals! 
'&'&'&'&'&*&*&'&*&'&*&*&*&*&*& 
PW CARNATION SALE: 
Carnationas will be sold in both din­ing halls during lunch and dinner this week for $1. All proceeds bene­fit the Tara Deutsch Scholarship Fund. Flowers will be delivered on Sunday, Feb. 13. 
Tell that special someone how much you care: 
Red= I love you. Pink= I like you. White= Let's get acquainted. Yellow= We're friends. and .... Green= ??????? 
*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&'&'&* 
College of Business Administration MUGS!II 
Only $10 and on sale Feb 7-11 from 11 am to 1 pm in the Hayes­
Healy Lobby 

Sponsored by the ND Marketing Club 
Ill VALENTINES DAY !!! 
Monday, February 14 
Come on in to IRISH GARDENS (basement of LaFortune) for all of your Valentine's Day needs. We have a plethora of flowers, bal­loons, cards, and candy. We also deliver on-campus and to surround­ing apt. complexes. •• V-day deliveries and pick-up orders must be placed by 5:00 Fri. Feb. 11. 1!1 VALENTINE'S DAY 1!1 
VALENTINE'S 
VALENTINE'S 
VALENTINE'S 
Suzy Zoo Cards, KC Knox 
Kids Photo Cards, Seinfeld and Farsidel Chocolate Lips, filled hearts and cuddly bears, kitties and puppies! Luv cuffs with /keys and Love Matches! Your heart's desire! 
The Country Harvester 
LaFortune Lower Level 
M-F 10-5 Sat. 11-4 
In a hurry ... don't worry. FAX IT! 
at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center NEW LOWER PRICES! 
Attention Ladies: Kyle and Drew's Erotic Strip Show has arrived in South Bend! These two hunks are known in Boston and Little Rock for jumping out of cakes and table dancing. Now you can have them entertain at your next party! Call Kyle 232-4959 or Drew 634-0685. 
Hey, NDE #30! 
••• Shut up and pedal!!! ••• 
TENSION, TENSION ... 
Schlage...how's the scar?? Good job on the Cake and take it easy on that Milk! II!! 
happy birthday timmy ... a few days early 
blow your nose, turtle --sherlock bean 
isn't it great how i can assume alternative personalities when creating phrases 
i can't believe i'm doing this all over again 
we're having a party ... 
Down in New Orleans where the blues was bom It takes a cool cat to blow a horn. The Mardi Gras mambo, mambo, mambo The Mardi Gras mambo, mambo. mambo The Mardi Gras mambo down in New Orleans! 
CANDY FLIP "CLUB 23" SATURDAY FEB. 12TH 
2222222222222222222 2 2 2 GARTH IS COMING! II 
2 
2 GARTH IS COMING!!! 
2 
2 OUR WAITING IS 
2 
2 ALMOST OVER!! I 
2 
2 2 2222222222222222222 

Thursday, February 10, 1994 The Observer • BASEBALL page 15 
Davis hoping career Yanks bolster staff with Mulholland 
will be revitalized 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

After failing in Baltimore, Glenn Davis hopes to resurrect his career with the New York Mets. 
"In a way, I've been stripped of everything I've earned in the game," he said Wednesday after agreeing to a minor­league contract with the Mets. 
"One good year under my belt will put to rest all these com­ments or accusations that have been made in the past." 
But first he has to make the Mets' roster, and that's far from definite. 
The 32-year-old first baseman was released by the Orioles on Sept. 8 after three injury-filled seasons in which he hit .247 with 24 homers and 85 RBis in 185 games. He made $9.94 mil­lion in Baltimore and was con­sidered a bust by fans who didn't think the Orioles got their money's worth. 
The two-time All-Star, speak­ing from his home in Columbus, Ga., said he didn't understand the bitterness. 
"I was really hurt by it," he said. "It was very hard for me to deal with. Possibly, that could have been one of the fac­tors in my downfall in perfor­mance. I gave it everything I got. I did my best and tried to do the best I could have under the cirumstances. Some of my (teammates) really respected that and appreciated it, but a lot of people didn't." 
Davis hit 166 homers for Houston, second on the team's career list, and had six straight seasons with 20 or more. He was traded to Baltimore on Jan. 10, 1991, for Pete Harnisch, Curt Schilling and Steve Finley, and was struck by a string of injuries that includ­ed a painful nerve in his neck. 
Last July 7, he broke his jaw in a bar fight at Virginia Beach, Va., and the man accused of assaulting him was acquitted in December. He got into a shout­ing match with Orioles man­ager Johnny Oates over playing time, and even got hit with a foul ball while sitting in Balti­more's dugout. 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Terry Mulholland, who went 12-9 last season in helping the Philadelphia Phillies win the National League penannt, was traded Wednesday to the New York Yankees for three players. 
Mulholland, who will be 31 next month, was entering the last year of his contract and the Phillies feared losing him to free agency. 
The left-bander had a 3.25 ERA in 28 starts and one relief appearance last season, strik­ing out 116 and walking 40 in 191 innings. 
In exchange, the Phillies get pitcher Bobby Munoz and a pair of minor leaguers: infielder Kevin Jordan and left-bander pitcher Ryan Karp. The Yankees also will get a player to be named. 
"I don't feel slighted," Mul­holland said. "I take some sati­faction that I was there when things weren't going well for Philadelphia. I was there when we got to the Series last year. I saw the progression." 
Phillies general manager Lee Thomas said it was particularly difficult to trade Mulholland. 
"He was the first guy who really made it big for the Phillies," Thomas said. "I really have a deep feeling for that. It was the last year of his con­tract. We couldn't get together on a multiyear." 
Mulholland was 1-0 with a 
6.75 ERA in the World Series against Toronto last October, winning Game 2 by 6-4. He was 0-1 with a 7.20 ERA in the NL playoffs against Atlanta, losing Game 3 by 9-4. 
"This is baseball and trades are made," Mulholland said. ''I'm a Yankee now. As my fa­ther said this afternoon, 'Great. You're playing for my favorite team.' I said I didn't know the Yankees were your favorite team. He said, 'They are now."' 
The Yankees, who also had talked with Houston about Pete Harnisch, will have to pay a large salary to Mulholland, who is scheduled for an arbitration hearing on Feb. 18. Mulhol­land, who made $2.65 million last year, has asked for $4.05 million and is being offered $3.35 million. 
Mulholland is eligible for free agency after the 1994 World Series and doesn't know yet if he would consider a multiyear deal with the Yankees. The Phillies will look to replace him with a younger pitcher. 
"We feel Jeff Juden, maybe Tyler Green, Mike Williams. one of those three will have the ball in their court," Thomas said. "It's not going to be easy to make up for Terry's wins, but I just felt this was the time to do something if we were go­ing to do it." 
Thomas said he feared losing Mulholland to free agency after this season. 
"It wasn't totally the money," Thomas said. "It was the thought of losing Terry to a draft choice. We all know he's worth a lot more than that." 
Munoz, who will be 26 next month, was 3-3 with a 5.32 ERA in 38 relief appearances for the Yankees. At Columbus of the Class AAA International League, he was 3-1 with a 1.44 ERA and 10 saves in 22 games, including one start. 
Jordan, 24, hit .283 last sea­son for Class AA Albany with 16 homers and 87 RBis. 
Karp was a combined 16-3 with a 2.10 ERA in 21 starts for Albany and two Class A teams: Prince William of the Carolina League and Greensboro of the South Atlantic League. 
FORMAL WEAR RENTALS & ALTERATIONS JUNIORS: We offer the best selection, best quality & best service at the best price in town $10 off any tuxedo in stock with this ad prices $55-$75 (offer ends February 18) Since 1980 G.-ifB·•l ff}~:!:lf:) Tuwn & Country Shopping Center, 24'52 Miracle Lane. Mishawaka, ln.  

• Ser'vice • c:ommunity • Culture • Open ~Aindedness • Prejudice Reduct;io .. ,:t'11inat,ing Stereot~ype • Prejudic Ut1ity • Cu lt~u Cult;ure • ()pen Reduction • •Eliminating Stereotypes • Awareness • Service That•s what we•re all about. Interested? Multicultural Executive Council is now accepting applications for the 1994-95 school year Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office. Deadline: February 18  

Ripken honored for power at the plate 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

Better late than never, Cal Ripken was honored Wednes­day as the greatest home-run hitting shortstop in baseball history. 
Ripken won a game for the Baltimore Orioles by hitting a homer off Minnesota's Scott Erickson last July 15th. Nearly seven months later, the Orioles finally got around to acknowl­edging his place in the baseball record book. 
The problem was that no one, not even Ripken, knew the significance of the solo blast at the time. It was his 278th as a shortstop, but the Orioles fig­ured that Ripken still needed 15 homers to tie Ernie Banks' record of 293. 
Four years ago, however, the Elias Sports Bureau, base­ball's official record keeper, discovered that Banks had been credited with 16 homers at shortstop that he had actually hit while playing frrst base. The Orioles didn't find out about the change until recently and fmal­ly got around to com­memorating Ripken's feat Wednesday. 
Banks joined the fun, pre­senting Ripken with congratu­lations and a signed bat. The Orioles also announced that the spot where the ball landed in the left-field stands would be marked by an orange seat. 
Ripken, who has received more than enough attention during his outstanding career, was thankful that he earned the record without having to endure a media onslaught prior to the feat. 
"Sometimes the individual accomplishments embarrass me a little bit," he said. ''I'm kind of glad it wasn't recog­nized at the time. That would have put more pressure on me. ... I probably wouldn't have hit another homer the rest of the season. What happened was that I was able to sneak up on Ernie without anyone knowing 
it... Ripken, who started his ca­reer at third base, now has 297 career homers -289 as a shortstop. Banks hit 277 of his 512 homers at the position. Banks was gracious about losing his record and kiddingly made a reference to the Tonya Harding incident. 
~e~&~ 

93~934w 
~ ~~ 

~ ~ ~ • $15.00 +Del.
:r: ...~-'-:5 
~s~ 

Doz. carnations with 2 mylar balloons 
~~~ 
-~~:: ~ 
• $20.00 + Del. 
e'" t; p\t\~ '(;' 

143 Dlxleway South (31 N) ~'~ South Bend, IN 46637 ~~·9-.lt $~ 10-.lt
273-2212 
~·9-6 
(3 blocks from Notre Dame) 


------------~----------------------------------------------------­
page 16 
The Observer • OLYMPICS Thursday, February 10, 1994 
BREAK
COMPLETE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS 


:AYETTE S 
OWNHO 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 

• 2 BATHROOMS 
• SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 
DAYTONA BEACH 

• KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE
PANAMA CITY BEACH 

• WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT
0 13H!.'H·B+ 0 
• GAS HEAT 
LAS VECAS 

• CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 
VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE


ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD 

• ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
MUSTANC ISLAND 

Meet OurFriendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Skating scandal stealing Norway's spotlight 
By LARRY McSHANE 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 

Make way, Alberto. Move over, Katarina. The big story here is a soap opera on skates that's already headlined in Detroit and Portland, the hit starring Tonya and Nancy. 
The 17th Winter Games have fallen on Harding times, with Tonya and Nancy Kerrigan threatening to turn the Olympics into a made-for-TV movie. Worse, the flap is threatening to overshadow the work of the Lillehammer or­ganizers and more than 1, 900 athletes from a record 66 coun­tries. 
With the start of the games just 72 hours away, a resolu­tion of the Harding affair won't come until next week at the earliest. 
There's the chance they might practice together. Or meet in the athletes' village. Or the ulti­mate: skate head to head in the biggest prime-time showdown since Sam Malone faced Diane Chambers in the grand finale of "Cheers." It's not that these Games lack for excitement or drama: There's Katarina Witt's comeback, Bonnie Blair's gold rush, Alberto Tomba's ski run 
intoh~rocy.
But Kerrigan and Harding 

~~=~t~~r::.~::s7::~r~r~: 
opening ceremonies. 
"If a skating controversy is important to the press, and that's what they think the American public wants to read about, then I guess we have to take a back seat," American skier AJ Kitt offered sagely on Wednesday. "If you want to experience the excitement of the Winter Games, come watch the downhill," suggested Kitt, competing in his third Games. 
OK. But if you want to experi-


HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDCE/KEYSTONE 
l'f:JII't:IISOIIDEI'IIIOIJIGIIMDUlllUoTKitt/INilAIDJITU/UJI&TIIDFSl~!T. 

Fill AIIIITilNAl. l'fliiMATION IIIEIBIVIJIM 
II•BOG.SUNCHASEI 
~~ 
ence the National Enquirer on ice, nothing can top this twisted combination of "Dynasty" and Disney. 
While her maybe-teammates skate gingerly around the Tonya questions, other com­petitors were more blunt. Czech pair skater Radka Kovarikova may have verbal­ized Kerrigan's unspoken fear: "I certainly would not want to be her roommate, or have the room near her." 
The folks at CBS might put Tonya up for a few nights. The network's $295 million in­vestment for television rights to the Games should pay otT hand­somely, with ratings jump­started by the mess that began last month, when a thug clubbed Kerrigan's knee. 
For those interested in mak­ing a buck themselves, Las Vegas bookies have made Nancy a 4-1 favorite to whip Harding if both skate. And "Saturday Night Live" execu­tive producer Lome Michaels is betting Nancy will be a hit as host March 12. 
Can't you see it already? Chris Farley as beefy bodyguard Shawn Eckardt. David Spade, with cheesy moustache, as Gillooly the stoolie. 
r~5;5;5;5;;55;5;5;~~5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;~~5;5;5;5;5;5;5;5;~;55;5;;~5;~5;5;~
ii 

Hotel Rooms stiII avaiIable 
for the 1994 
Junior Parents Weekend! 
(219)234-2000 
123 North St. Joseph Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
._------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
US hockey ties powerful Sweeden 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 

GOTEBORG, Sweden 
The U.S. hockey team, ailing in recent weeks, has pro­nounced itself fit for the Olympics. 
"Let the r--------~ 
Games be­gin," coach Ted Taylor s a i d Wednesday night after t h e Americans 


t i e d Lillehammer'94 Sweden 2­2 in their final Olympic tuneup. 
"I think our minds pretty much are in Lillehammer already. We're going to get there (Thursday). I think this was a nice way to end a 61­game preparation schedule." 
Mike Dunham made 23 saves to stake his claim to the start­ing goaltender job. David Roberts and Jeff Lazaro scored for the United States, which plays its Olympic opener Sun­day against France. 
Sweden also opens Sunday against Slovakia. 
The Swedes had little at stake Wednesday, but the Americans had plenty to prove -mostly to themselves. 
They played poorly last week­end at a tournament in France, with a 1-1-1 record against what was considered inferior competition. And they'd gone only 5-4-1 after ending 1993 with an impressive showing in Moscow's Izvestia Cup. 
"We struggled in France. We were doubting ourselves, a little tentative," Dunham said. 
"This game, we went out, held them to 25 shots -a team that's a favorite for the gold medal. We know we can play with Sweden. And if we know we can play with Sweden, we know we can play with any­body." 
"For the first time, we really played our system to a tee," said Todd Marchant, the top scorer in pre-Olympic play with 67 points. 
The United States finished 37­17-7-28-13-3 in international competition. 
Wednesday's game had none of the verbal and physical alter­cations that marked two U.S.­Sweden match-ups before and during the 1992 Olympics. 
"There were a lot of ghosts in the closet because of what hap­pened in '92," Taylor said. "I think it's over." 
Dunham, superb against Sweden in the final 1992 exhi­bition, has never played a game in the Olympics. But with two straight strong games after a month-long slump, it appeared he has edged Garth Snow for the start Sunday. 
Still, Taylor was evasive about his choice at the position. 
Though the coach praised Dunham for carrying the United States as Sweden turned up the pressure in the third period, Taylor added: "You'll find out what I'm doing with my goaltenders when I decide." 
Mats Naslund tied the game for Sweden with 6:09 to play when a U.S. mistake during a line change gave him a break­away. The only other goal Dunham allowed was scored by Jonas Bergqvist in the first pe­riod on a rebound. 
The United States scored both of its goals in the second peri­od, Lazaro after a Swedish giveaway and Roberts on a power play. 
Ted Drury scored on a long slap shot just after the final horn, and the goal was disal­lowed. 
Swedish assistant coach Par Marts, who coached his coun­try's "B" team to an easy victo­ry over the United States last weekend in France, paid the Americans the ultimate compli­ment Wednesday. 
"They played with much more control of the puck and a lot of movement," he said. "The U.S. team played 'Swedish."' 

Thursday, February 10, 1994 The Observer • OLYMPICS page 17 
Speedskaters excited for 'fast ice' 
By RAF CASERT 
Associated Press 
HAMAR, Norway 

The crowds will be rooting for Olympians Bonnie Blair, Dan Jansen and Johann Olav Koss at Viking Ship hall. 
But there'd be no speedskat­ing magic without the icemas­ter, Bjorn Lunstoeng. 
From his cramped office in the huge arena, Lunstoeng turns pristine water from near­by Lake Mjosa into a sleek sheet of ice that is sending ath­letes into uncharted territory. 
Jensen, who broke the 36-sec­ond barrier in the 500 meters here in December. calls it "the fastest ice in the world,' 
Koss and Germany's Gunda Niemann set 5,000-meter records. Rintje Ritsma of Holland broke a 6-year-old 1,500-meter mark. 
All this is heady stuff for Lunstoeng after a controversial first year. 
When Dutchman Falko Zandstra won the world cham­pionships here last year with­out setting a record, he de­risively called the surface "pro­letarian ice." 
That put the pressure on Lunstoeng. Speedskating is a high-profile sport in Norway, and the slushy, makeshift track endured at Albertville in 1992 would not be tolerated here. 
But the icemaster's efforts are getting rave reviews from some of the world's most discriminat­ing judges 
"Lightning fast," declared Ritsma after becoming European champion here three weeks ago. 
"A lot of world records will be skated," said Peter Mueller, Jansen's coach. "You can go as fast as you want to go -Dan can anyhow." 
Eric Heiden, who won five gold medals in the 1980 Olympics, also tried out the course. 
"I never thought I'd see ice better than in Calgary, but this is better," he said. 
The quest for new world records has produced an intense rivalry between Lun­stoeng and his counterparts in Calgary and Heerenveen, the Netherlands. A slew of records were set at the 1988 Games, and Heerenveen is the only other indoor track that holds current world marks. 
"I cannot say who's the best now." Lunstoeng said. 
There's a lot the icemasters don't tell one another -like how much water to put on the track and how fast to freeze it. How much the Zamboni machine should scrape from the surface and how fast it should go. 
"We talks about many things, but not about ice," Lunstoeng said. 
Charismatic Myler hopes for gold 
By JOHN KEKIS 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway Cammy Myler is. as quick with a smile as she is on her luge. 
She smiles when she thinks about the stomach virus at the 1992 Winter Games at Albertville, which might have cost the United States its first luge medal. 
She smiles when she talks about her ailing shoulders. 
She even manages a pained grin when she thinks of her 38­year-old brother Tim, battling cancer in a hospital bed back home in Lake Placid, N.Y. 
"It's just a part of life." Myler said Wednesday as she began fmal preparations for her third Olympics. "When you're racing, 

-.,~ 
~ Speaks for Itself¢~ CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. 
STUDENT ACCOMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. WE TAKE SECVRI1Y AND SAFE1Y SERIOUSLY. 
Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff Call Dorene NOW 
272--1441 
you have to put everything aside." 
She said her brother is "doing a little better now. They've been trying to find some new medications. You have to make the best of the situation, and I'm definitely trying to do that. 
"I certainly wouldn't be here if it weren't for him." 
Tim Myler, a former slider, introduced his sister to the sport in 1980. 
Since then, she's become the 
U.S. team's top female racer, finishing fifth at Albertville ­the best performance by a U.S. luger in Olympic history. 
The showing was a disap­pointment for Myler, who fin­ished the 1991-92 World Cup season ranked second, just one point behind Susi Erdman of Germany. 
And the trail to Lillehammer has been agonizing. 
Myler dislocated her right shoulder playing tennis last spring -it was the fourth time the joint had slipped out of place -and had surgery, hop­ing to fiX it once and for all. 
Then, while she was training last summer for the 1993-94 World Cup season, her left shoulder went out. 
"It happened lifting weights," Myler said. "I was just shocked." 
Recovery was swift, but the Christmas holidays brought another crisis. 
"I got home on the 23rd of December and my brother had to go to the hospital," she said. "He was diagnosed with colon cancer three years ago, but the cancer had spread to the stom­ach and liver. He passed out twice and developed an ulcer. I wasn't expecting it. He had been home and was doing well." 
Tim Myler had surgery Christmas Eve. He has not left the hospital, but speaks with his sister every other day. 
"He tells me if there are any cute nurses on the ward," she said. 
Myler finished the season peaking, sliding off with gold in the finale at Altenberg, Germany. Her brother provid­ed the inspiration. 
"We talked in January the week before I went to Al­tenberg," she said. "He said, 'I wish you could win a race for me.' I got to call him afterward, and that made me feel so good. It was really nice." 
Come toa 

free 
~~;mmmm;;;;;mmmmmmmm;;mmmmmm: 
Informational Seminar on the 

When: Wednesday, February 16th 
5:30pm 
Find Out About: 
*The Structure of the LSATWhere: 
Kaplan Educational Center *Test Taking Strategies 
1717 East South Bend Ave. *Law School Admission Process 
*Sample LSAT Questions 
In addition, take a FREE DIAGNOSTIC EXAM and receive a computerized analysis of your results. 

~r more mfonnation or to ~i~n u~ tall 
272-4135 
page 18 The Observer • PRO BASKETBALL 
Piston's ailing Elliott takes leave 
By ARTHUR H. ROTSTEIN 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

Sean Elliott, the Detroit Pis­tons forward whose kidney ail­ment scuttled a trade to the Houston Rockets, said Wednes­day he'll take an indefinite leave of absence to clear up the medical problem. 
The Pistons said they were not advised Elliott had planned to take a leave. 
The status of the 6-foot-8 for­ward was uncertain, with dis­cussions between his represen­tatives and the team planned later in the day. 
"He has to work with us be­cause he is under contract to the Pistons," Pistons spokesman Matt Dobek said. "We are willing to listen to what his ideas are, but he has to work with our team doctor." 
Elliott's agent, Burt Kinerk, said: "We've been in touch with the team. The mutual un­derstanding, I believe, of both parties is that what's best for Sean's health has to be checked out." 
He said Houshm doctors say his condition should be treated immediately, a move that would prevent him from playing for six to eight weeks. However, Kinerk said Detroit doctors say Elliott can continue to play while he is treated. 
"What we're doing is getting some independent medical ad­vice to make a determination of what's right," Kinerk said. "If playing is detrimental to his health, then at this time he shouldn't be playing." 
At a hometown news con­ference, Elliott said he wasn't planning to play again until the problem was firmly diagnosed and treated. 
"We're going to get down to the bottom of it, and I'm not going to go back, I don't think, until I can pass any NBA physi­cal," he said. 
"Because if this situation stays the same for another year or two years, which teams are going to take me and which teams are not going to take me ifI decide to go somewhere?" 
Asked if he's taking an indef­inite leave, Elliott said: "That's exactly it. Because my health is more important than any bas­ketball game. 
The Pistons have been real cooperative with me. They want me to get better because it's in their best interest as well." 
He added: "We're just going to get all the opinions that we can and make a decision from there." 
Elliott has missed only one game because of the condition, which was diagnosed in June when he was still with the San Antonio Spurs. 
He missed the past four games with the Pistons because of pneumonia. 
Pistons coach Don Chaney said the Pistons knew about El­liott's kidney condition before trading for him. 
Rockets owner Les Alexander said Houston doctors consulted after the team lear.l)ed Saturday about Elliott's condi­tion. They told him the trade should not be completed. 
Alexander, speaking by con­ference call from Boca Raton, Fla., said only one doctor, from Detroit, said there was "no problem" with Elliott's condi­tion. 
The Rockets owner criticized the conduct of Pistons officials, including Chaney. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•.• CONSIDERATIONS 
Very Carefully 
The famous and funny professor told his same old joke again. Just how do you have sex with a porcupine?, he asked. Very carefully, he replied. 
As a joke, it's a great little attention getter , a sweet little joke, with a thousand applications. Depending upon the audience, the verb for "having sex" can slide up or down the raunchy scale for extra clout. In this particular case, everyone's old friend was beginning a talk about "how in the world a Christian can be a lawyer." So speaking to a mixed crowd of old faculty colleagues and eager new law students in the elegant courtroom of the Law School, the pushy teacher's choice of verbs was happily only slightly cruder than what seems polite to toss before you, the Observer reader. It could have been a lot worse. 
The point is the punch line. How do you do it?-Very Carefully. For example, how can you be a lawyer and a Christian? How can you give yourself over to a system that you don't control, that is dominated by wealth and influence and structures designed to maintain privilege? How can you accept a rich man/woman's salary and integrate your call to serve the Gospel and reveal the Reign of God and love the poor? How can you live amongst laws and policies and politics that seem to attack your own values and desires? How can you be a lawyer and a Christian? Very carefully. 
The same pithy punch line would hold true for a dentist, or a teacher, or a football coach or a priest. Since the beginning of the church, all believers have struggled to live 'in the world, but not of it.' Given creativity and strength by God, shown both the blessings of creation and the pains and evils that life contains, the attentive Christian has been challenged to use the life of Jesus as a model for the choices necessary to create a life of passionate, personal integrity. We celebrate the beauty of life, we seek to diminish the pain and evil. 
It has always been a Notre Dame challenge. If you really just wanted to be a lawyer, or a teacher, or an engineer, you probably should have gone to Purdue. If instead, you are committed to being a Christian and a lawyer, or a teacher, or an engineer, then I think we are all still on the same page. We stand ready to be involved. The advice we get is to be careful. 
And the trouble we find is that we can all get real tired of being careful. Our famous little punch line asks for an endless process of questioning and self,examination. Again and again, we must see if we are still loyal to the values we have professed. Again and again, we must ask if we are generous, and open, and ready for change. Again and again, we must ask if we are witnessing to hospitality and a zeal for justice and making choices which will benefit others, most especially those who suffer the 
most. In America, that is a lot like swimming up stream. And at Notre Dame, where we all get three meals a day and plan on paying for our children's college education, that can sometimes feel like a threat. 
At the end of his lecture, the witty and wise professor gave another simple sounding piece of advice. If you're gonna try and live and work in this dirty world of ours, and do so as a Christian, said he, get yourself some good friends. Everybody needs perspective, everybody needs support, everybody needs help. 
It made good sense to me. Then if I get sloppy, then if I get overwhelmed, then if I need courage to redirect my energies, I have a chance. 
One of the great things about being an intellectual, and reading a zillion books, and reflecting upon a thousand different issues is that later on, as you get older, you can say shorter, simpler things and get people to listen to you. And when you point to simple truths and offer simple advice, you gently draw people back to an encounter with their own inner lives and hopes and needs very carefully. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. February 12  5:00p.m.  Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C.  
Sun. February 13  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. John Gerber, C.S.C.  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING  Leviticus 13: 1.. 2, 44..46  
2ND READING  1 Corinthians 10: 31.-11: 1  
GosPEL  Mark 1: 40..4 5  


.----------------~--_...----~-------~---·--------------~----------~-~---------_....., 
Thursday, February 10, 1994 The Observer • PRO BASKETBALL ROUNDUP page 19 
Pacers get contributions frofll Williaflls, McKey in victory 

AP File Photo 

Detroit guard lsiah Thomas worked his magic again, scoring 28 points to lead the Pistons over the Celtics to end a three game slide. 

S.U.B. Applications 
are available in the Student Government office for all executive positions 
Applications due by Feb. 15th 
NOTRE 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY 


Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FoR '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
Associated Press 

Reserve forward Ken Williams scored a career-high 25 points and Derrick McKey had a sea­son-high 30, including four free throws in the final 30 seconds, as Indiana won its seventh straight, matching a franchise­record. 
The Pacers also evened their record at 23-23 to reach .500 for the first time this season. 
McKey and Williams shot a combined 19-of-28 from the field. The Heat, meanwhile, were just 2-of-14 from 3-point territory and made only 34 of 48 foul shots. 
Magic 1 04, Hawks 87 
Shaquille O'Neal scored 37 points and Dennis Scott led Or­lando out of a shooting slump with 24 as the Magic stopped a three-game losing streak. 
Atlanta fell behind in the first quarter as Orlando had a 13-1 run. The Magic made 11 of 13 shots in the second period for a team-record 85 percent, and hit 70 percent of their attempts in the opening half to break the game open. 
Dominique Wilkins had 30 points to lead Atlanta, which shares the second-best record in the Eastern Conference {33­
13) with the Chicago Bulls. 
Warriors 126, Hornets 116 

Latrell Sprewell scored a sea­son-high 34 points to lead five players in double figures as Golden State sent Charlotte to its eighth straight loss. 
With most of Charlotte's big 
men sidelined by an assortment 
of ailments, the Warriors con­
trolled the inside. 
The Hornets, forced to shoot 
from outside, got a team 
record-tying 41 points from 
Hersey Hawkins. 
Chris Webber scored 22 
points, Avery Johnson had 20, 
and Owens and KJJith Jennings 
15 apiece for Golden State. 
Owens also grabbed 10 re­
bounds. 
Eddie Johnson had 24 points 
and Muggsy Bogues had 11 
points and 10 assists for Char­
lotte. 
Knicks 114, 76ers 79 
Patrick Ewing had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Charles Oakley had 13 points and 12 
1994-95 Cheerleader Squad Tryouts will be held in March. 
Students interested should attend the informational meeting February 21, 1994 at 5:00 
p.m. at the JACC in the Pit. 
Please bring proof ofinsurance. 
rebounds as New York trounced Philadelphia. 
The 35-point win matched New York's biggest margin of victory this season, while Philadelphia had its most lop­sided loss of the year. 
The Knicks made 12 of 19 shots in the frrst quarter to take a 37-26 lead, Philadelphia never got closer than 11 after that. 
Pistons 1 02, Celtics 95 
Isiah Thomas scored 28 points -19 of them in an otherwise cold-shooting first half for Detroit -as the Pistons broke a three-game losing streak. 
Terry Mills and Olden Polyn­ice each scored 16 points for Detroit, Joe Dumars had 15 ­all in the second half -and rookies Allan Houston and Lindsey Hunter added 10 each. 
Robert Parish led Boston with 17 points and 12 rebounds. Xavier McDaniel scored 16, Dino Radja 15, Sherman Dou­glas 14 and Rick Fox 12 for the Celtics, who lost their fourth straight. 
Nets 1 06, Cavaliers 95 
Kenny Anderson warmed up forthe All-Star game with 24 points and the New Jersey Nets got some unexpected help from their big reserves. 
The Nets snapped a two-game losing streak in their fmal game before the All-Star break, while the Cavaliers struggled without Brad Daugherty and Larry Nance. 
Without them in the lineup, 
Nets backup forwards Armon 
Gilliam and Jayson Williams 
and center Benoit Benjamin 
took advantage inside. Gilliam 
and Williams combined to score 
23 of the Nets' 30 second-quar­
ter points, helping New Jersey 
turn a one-point lead into a 54­
47 edge at intermission. 
Cleveland got no closer than 
nine after that. 
Suns 111, Timberwolves 106 
Cedric Ceballos and Kevin 
Johnson each scored 24 points 
Wednesday night, but the 
Phoenix Suns had to struggle to 
beat the Minnesota Timber­
wolves 111-106. 
The victory kept Phoenix per­
fect against Minnesota (18-0) 
since the Timberwolves joined 
the league in 1989-90. 
·-r­
t 

Michigan's King, Jackson sentenced to community service 
By JULIA PRO DIS 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

Three University of Michigan basketball players caught on camera stealing beer from a convenience store last month pleaded no contest Wednesday to retail fraud and will perform community service. 
A Michigan football player, Damon Jones, 19, accused of trying to steal beer from the same store a week later, stood mute on the same charge be­fore Ann Arbor District Judge Timothy Connors. Jones is al­ready on probation for a prior felony charge. 
Jimmy King, 20, and Ray Jackson, 20, starters for the Wolverines, and Chris Fields, 19, will have the charges purged from their records in six months if they perform 72 hours of community service and pay $200 in court fees, said their lawyer, Paul Gallagher. 
"What you did is a crime, and it is also a very stupid thing to do," the judge told the bas­ketball players, who fidgeted nervously before the judge and several television cameras.\"You will be treated the same as anyone else who comes through this courtroom -no more, no less." Three other people face shoplifting charges as well. Football player Remy Hamilton, a 19-year-old place-kicker, store clerk Allison Chenault, 20, -who police said encouraged· the crimes -and her friend, Jaymar Joseph, will be arraigned at later dates, Ann Arbor Police Detective Sgt. Mick Schubring said Wednesday. 
"She allegedly called (the ath­letes) and said, 'Stop down sometime and I'll fix you up with what you need,"' Lt. John Atkinson said of Chenault. 
Police say Jones and Hamilton went into a Dairymart store Jan. 20 and began loading 2 1/2 cases of beer into their gym bags, emblazoned with "Rose Bowl" and "Holiday Bowl" in­signias. When the assistant manager dropped in unexpect­edly, the duo left quickly, leav­ing the loaded gym bags near the beer cooler, Scl}ubring said. 
Along with beer, police found identification of both athletes and a Rose Bowl ring belonging to Jones. 
They were "just not thinking too clearly at that particular time," Schubring said. Jones and Hamilton have been sus­pended from the football team by coach Gary Moeller. 
Suspicious that the clerk might have given away mer­chandise to other friends, the Dairymart assistant manager reviewed past surveillance tapes and saw the three bas­ketball players stealing five to seven cases of beer Jan. 12, Schubring said. The clerk and the basketball players "smiled and waved at each other" on camera, Atkinson said. 
The trio, accompanied to court by coach Steve Fisher, were suspended from Michi­gan's victory over Michigan State on Saturday. Against In­diana on Tuesday, King scored 17 points, Jackson had 13 points and a game-high nine rebounds. Fields was scoreless. 
The case against Jones, which will be discussed by his lawyer and a prosecutor at a March 1 pretrial conference, exacer­bates Jones' legal troubles. 
The 230-pound tight end is on probation after pleading guilty to a felony charge of exploding a firebomb in a university dor­mitory in December 1992. That charge would have been cleared from his record, but he violated several terms of his probation, including failing to perform any of the 50 hours of community service and leaving the state without court permis­sion, said his probation officer, Phil King. 


Put one ofthese to use on February 17 and see what develops. 
If you're a Junior majoring in accounting, February 17 could develop into quite an interesting evening. Because that's when the Ernst & Young Photo Hunt will take place. It's a splendid opportunity to show off all that intellectual superiority, resourcefulness, analytical brilliance and quantitative prowess you've been accumulating 
THE ERNST & YOUNG PHOTO HUNT 
Thursday, February 17 • 7 pm • LaFortune Student Center All juniors majoring in accounting are invited 
all these years. Plus, it'll be fun. Clues in one hand, Polaroid in another, you and your team will scour the inside of LaFortune Student Center in pursuit of answers to some of the most devilishly clever riddles ever conceived about, well, 
about that building. We'll meet promptly at 7 pm at The Huddle, on the orient side. To let us know that you'll be there, RSVP to the Ernst & Young Recruiting Department at (800) 869-9899 by Monday, February 14. You never knovv what you might find. After all, it could develop into a Summer Internship at Ernst & Young. i!/ ERNST& YOUNG 
Thursday, February 10,1994 The Observer· COLLEGE BASKETBALL ROUNDUP page 21 
Razorbacks end Kentucky home winning streak, 90-82 
No. 3 Arkansas 90, 
No. 4 Kentucky 82 
Third-ranked Arkansas ended No. 4 Kentucky's 33-game homecourt winning streak as Clint McDaniel and Scotty Thurman led a second-half surge that carried the Ra­zorbacks to a 90-82 victory Wednesday night. 
Arkansas (17-2, 7-2 South­eastern Conference) was the last team to beat the Wildcats in Rupp Arena went it took a 105-88 win on Jan. 25, 1992. 
It wasn't as easy this time. 
Kentucky (18-4, 7 -3), which had won five straight games, led 54-49 on Jared Prickett's layup with 15:15 to go. 
Corey Beck. then ignited a 19­3 run by Arkansas with a driv­ing layup. McDaniel scored nine points and Thurman added seven as the Razorbacks went up 68-59 at 9:21. 
Rodrick Rhodes completed a three-point play and made three of four free throws in the next two minutes as Kentucky cut the margin to 68-65. 
Thurman's 8-footer with 4:51 to go increased Arkansas' lead to 78-71. Kentucky's Travis Ford connected on a 3-pointer from the corner, and after Arkansas' Corliss Williamson made one free throw, Ford hit another 3 to cut it to 79-77. 
After an Arkansas turnover, Ford misfired from 3-point range with 1:37 left, and four seconds later Williamson scored a layup to give Arkansas a four-point cushion and Arkansas was firmly in control to the end before the third largest crowd in Rupp Arena history (24,326). 
Thurman finished with 26 points and Williamson added 21 as Arkansas was 31-for-62 from the field. 
Rodrick Rhodes led Kentucky with 22 points, and Tony Delk added 16 as the Wildcats fin­ished 29-for-76 (38.2 percent). 
Delk, who was making 41.1 percent of his 3-point attempts, hit only two of 13. Kentucky made only 10 of 40. 
Rhodes hit two 3s and com­pleted a three-point play during a 12-0 run that gave Kentucky a 39-24 lead with 4:46 remain­ing in the half. 
But Rhodes turned to goat when he was assessed an un­sportsmanslike technical foul for having words with Beck. Arkansas responded with eight straight points and rallied to lead 47-41 at halftime. 
Prickett grabbed a career­high 20 rebounds as Kentucky held a 47-44 edge on the boards. 
No. 10 Purdue 98, Northwestern 81 It took Glenn Robinson less 
than nine minutes to reach his 44th consecutive double-figure scoring game Wednesday night and he had 22 points in the first half to spark No. 10 Purdue past Northwestern 98-81. 
Robinson, who brought a 28.8 scoring average into the game, finished with 29 points as the Boilermakers substituted fre­quently with the outcome decided early. 
The victory moved Purdue into a second-place tie with Indiana in the Big Ten, one game behind Michigan. 
Purdue (19-3, 7-3) never trailed as it opened a 13-4 lead. 


FLORALCO. 

t 
Inc Remember Your Sweetheart • on Valentine's Day/ 
• . , _ 327 Lincolnway West, South Bend 
_,.... 232-3354 
Mary B. Green 
Come in and Browse Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger 

The Boilermakers then pulled away with 15 consecutive points to defeat Northwestern (9-9, 0-9) for the 21st time in 22 games. Northwestern's only victory came last year when the Wildcats recorded a 62-59 tri­umph to snap a 60-game road losing streak. 
The Wildcats, playing their first game since coach Ricky Byrdsong asked for and received an indefinite leave of absence for reasons that were not publicly disclosed, were down 31-23 following Kevin Rankin's jumper with 6:02 left in the first half. 
A three-point play by Matt Waddell with 5:11 remaining in the half started the decisive Purdue streak. Robinson made a layup and four free throws in the streak, which ended on a short jumper by Porter Roberts with 2:56 to go. 
A 3-pointer by Todd Leslie with 2:3 5 left ended Northwestern's scoring drought and the Wildcats trailed 50-28 at halftime as they shot 34 per­cent in the half (12-for-35). Northwestern never drew clos­er than 13. 
The Wildcats cut their deficit to 89-76 on a short jumper by Cedric Neloms, who led Northwestern with 24 points. But Cuonzo Martin made a free throw for Purdue with 1:27 left and Justin Jennings took the rebound of his missed second shot and scored to end the comeback bid. 
Purdue was 19-for-38 from the field in the first half and also dominated the boards 28­18. 
Martin had 17 points, while Waddell added 12, Roberts 11 and Jennings 10. 
Patrick Baldwin scored 15 for Northwestern, which dropped its ninth consecutive game, and Rankin had 14. 
1/IIIBntlne Specials 8.• + up 
Maternowski's 212-0970 

$1500.00 SCHOLARSHIP 
for eight weeks of your summer devoted to service work 
* APPLICATION DEADLINE February 11 
stop by the Center for 
Soctttl Concerns 
for tnfo and app11catlon 
No. 15 Missouri 82, Colorado 70 

Melvin Booker and Kelly Thames cooled off a Colorado rally in the second half Wednesday night and led No. 15 Missouri, the Big Eight leader, to an 82-70 victory. 
Missouri (17 -2, 8-0) has won 12 straight at home. It was the 23rd straight loss in Columbia for Colorado (10-10, 2-6), which has lost 76 of 77 regular-season conference road games. 
Missouri has not been 8-0 in the Big Eight since 1982 . 
Paul O'Liney hit back-to-hack 3-pointers that gave the Tigers a seemingly comfortable 57-39 lead with almost 13 minutes left. But Donnie Boyce's run­ning jumper triggered a Colorado run and, with 9:20 to play, Boyce cut the lead to 57­50 with another short jumper that stilled the crowd and got the full attention of heavily fa­vored Missouri. 
With 7:29 left, Booker made two free throws, then got the ball back a moment later and drilled a 3-pointer that restored Missouri's lead to 64-52. 
Thames, a 6-foot-7 freshman, led the Tigers with 20 points. His three-point play gave Missouri a 69-56 lead with 5:05 to go. Booker, who had 10 points as Missouri took a 46-32 halftime lead, fmished with 19 and O'Liney had 16. 
Colorado has finished last in the Big Eight seven of the past eight seasons. 
Boyce led the Buffs with 27, while Ted Allen, who fouled out with 10:03 remaining, had all 14 of his points in the first half. 
"A MASTERPIECE! IT'S PHENOMENAL!" 
-Joel Siegel, ABC-TV 

"A nMELESSLY ELEGANT DRAMA OF LoVE, YEARNING, PAIN AND PASSION." 
-David Sheehan, KNBCTV, LOS A~GELES 
111Eci\GEoP 
INNOCENCE 
COWMBIA PICThRES.... .CAPPNDE FI~A-,MARTIN SCORSESE... Dk'iiEL DAHEIWS ~«CHELLE PFEIFFER \\1~0NA RYDER ~r!;~2rl\\O~E::_~L~R BER.\STEI\ l:"~~lll \VH~RTON -.jAY COCKS &MAR'JIJ~~~~ 
1--------Zl. ~ .BARBAR\DEFIM .~fARTI~SCORSESE ~ !ill!!lli"W 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 6:45 &9:45 CALL 631-7361 FOR TIMES AND DATES FOR ALL CINEMA AT THE SNITE FILMS 
bounds in the Loyola game gave her 646 on her career,

Attendance streak intact at Syracuse Hoops 
making her only the third ju­

By WILLIAM KATES 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 

For the lOth straight season, more people will watch Syra­cuse play basketball at home than any other NCAA team. 
But for the fourth straight sea­son, average attendance will be down at the Carrier Dome. 
School offi-
Jim Boeheim 

cials say upstate New York's economic slump in the 1990s is the chief reason for the falloff. But they also blame other fac­tors, including the dimming lus­ter of Big East Conference bas­ketball. 
"The area's lost thousands of jobs in recent years," said Carrier Dome manager Pat Campbell. "People buy basket­ball tickets with disposable in­come. If you don't have a job, you don't have a disposable in­come." 
Syracuse has ranked first na­tionally in home attendance since 1983-84, when it took the honor from Kentucky, which has been the perennial No. 2 at the turnstiles ever since. 
Ironically, the fourth-ranked Wildcats will help No. 14 Syra­cuse (15-4) clinch the atten­dance crown again when they meet Saturday in the dome. A near capacity crowd of 33,000 is expected. 
Attendance for basketball at 

the 14-year-old Carrier Dome 
peaked in 1989-90, with an av­
erage of 29,919 a game. It's 
been sinking since, to 29,246 in 
1990-91; 27,103 in 1991-92 
and 25,351 in 1992-93. 
In 13 home games this season the average has been 23,794. 
While still dwarfing the aver­

age NCAA Division I crowd ­
5,382 -this year's dome aver­
age will be the lowest in a 
decade. 
Even more importantly, the 

number of people paying the 
$216 for season tickets has fall­
en by about 3,000 to 22,500, 
said Campbell. 
While economics is a factor, 

Syracuse's attendance slump 
also reflects the good, but not 
great, nature of recent Orange 
teams and of the Big East in 
general, fans say. 
"I just don't fmd them as ex­

citing any more," said Keith 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Perfect Pinkies Tanning 
Purchase 15 sessions for $4500 package 
Receive goggles and accelerator packet FREE with this ad 
In the Georgetown Center 
271-7121 
Other Packages Available 

Wilson, a former season ticket­holder who now occasionally pays $14 to see single games. 
"It used to be an event. You could see Final Four teams and some of the top names. Now if I want to see those players and their teams, I stay home and watch them on television," he said. 
Athletic director Jake Crouthamel has tried to restore some of the magic of the old days, including giving the cheerleaders and school band larger roles during games and bringing the "Dome Ranger" mascot out of a four-year re­tirement. 
"We are concerned. We ap­preciate the support we get from the community. But we are concerned that attendance will continue to drop," said Crouthamel, who cites the re­cession as the main culprit. 
Crouthamel acknowledges the Big East is just not the glamour conference it was in the 1980s. "Over the past several years, the conference, not just Syra­cuse, hasn't had the marquee players -the players you love 
to hate, like (Chris) Mullin, (Patrick) Ewing and Pearl (Washington)," he said. 
"I agree to that. But I don't agree that Syracuse basketball isn't exciting. Coach (Jim) Boe­heim's teams play an up-tempo style that's fun to watch. And, parity in the Big East has made every game competitive." 
Competitive yes. But, some crit­ics claim, too many Big East games tend to be bruising, foul­filled contests in which the team that wins is the one that makes the most free throws. 
A succession of crowd-pleas­ing Orange players in the 1980s, including Washington, Sherman Douglas, Derrick Coleman, Stephen Thompson and Billy Owens, have given way to such solid, but less spec­tacular, stars as Lawrence Moten and Adrian Autry. 
The increased availability of college basketball, and other sports, on television was cited as a factor by many who did not renew their season tickets, according to surveys by Syracuse officials. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Friday, February 11 Notre Dame Men's Tennis vs. Ohio State 3:15pm Eck Pavilion 
Notre Dame Women's Tennis 

vs. Kansas 7:30pm Eck Pavilion 
Saturday, Febraury 12 Notre Dame Hockey vs. Western Michigan 7:00pm JACC Fieldhouse 
Garth Brooks Ticket Giveaway! 


./ 7 Nights Hotel ./AirportTronsfers ./College Tours Famous 
VIP Party Poclo'age ./ On-S~e Professional Staff and Office ./ Discounts and morel 

L-----------~ 
$459 
Indianapolis and Chicago Departures 
./ Late-Night Donee Parties ./ Ev.;nts ot oil of Conrun"s Hottest !!<Irs and Clu~ ./ 10·~ Party. 3 houts'of tree food and drinkl ./ Pro-Beoch Volley\:><111 ./ S8ve CNer $150 with OlX famous party progmml 
L---~~~--~· 
LOOK WHO'S DAVIN(; J\ Blll'I'HJ)J.\Y! 
[llj}[p[plf illiilli~illiDj}IT miD ®rnrn fill ~®f12 
I..OVI~, 

11011, J)J.\1), ,JJ.\1)11~ 
& lll.U~ 
continued from page 24 

Mary Beth Schueth during the 1981-82 season. Morgan is looking to be the first player since Schueth and only the third player ever to lead the Irish in scoring in her first year. She already ranks second in the MCC this year in that cat­egory. 
Junior forward Letitia Bowen will be looked upon to continue pulling down rebounds for the Irish. 
Bowen's team high 7 re-
SMC 
continued from page 24 
this season. 

The task will be difficult for the team. but they are ready for the challenge. 
After a few weeks of injuries and illcyesses, the team is 
Cor#illy 

~son the Avenue 
Floral & Prutry Shopp< 
2226 MISHAWAKA AVE.. SOUTH BEND, IN 46615 
(219) 287.-2955 
nior in school history to eclipse the 600 mark, and putting her sixth on the all-time list. 
The Irish are playing very well as a team, with the bench a contributing factor to the team's success. 
Freshman center Katryna Gaither scored 12 points and grabbed 6 rebounds in only 17 minutes in the Loyola game, and Carey Poor poured in 8 points in 13 minutes. 
In the first half of the Loyola game, the bench scored half of the 32 Irish points. 
healthy and prepared for the upcoming games. 
With intense practices for the next two weeks, the Belles feel they will be up for any oppo­nent. 
"We know we can play against any team," said Lalli. "We have confidence going into the next games." 
ROSES 
starting at $37.50 C/C CARNATIONS statting at $12.95 qc FRESHClJf 
ARRANGEMENTS 
$17.50 & Up BAllOON BOKA)'S $9.99 & Up C/C 
M;,;,.,. far Ddiwry: $17.50 (piau ddlwry wellf(llla} 

Don't Forget that Special Someone. 15 Specials starting at $20.00! 
FREE DELIVERY! llilrDfl ~flm(/iJ Basket. .............. $30.00 Cand1,1, Hot Massage Lotion, Hot Stuff Bear, Love Coupons and Balloon Bouquet 
Sheer Elegance................ $35.00 
Silver Serving Tra1,1, Champagne Bubble Bath. Cr1,1stal Champagne Glass, Hershe1,1's Kisses and Roses 

your flower alternative 

51 East Jefferson 
232--0302 

T H E • E X T R-A U R D I N A R Y · F L 0 R A L • C 0. 
Fresh Flowers 
Blooming Gifts &Green Balloons Plants 
10% Discount with Student ID ,. 256-7277 
The University s• • 
Choice for Flowers 
5 1\'linutcs fa·om Campus 703 West Edison Rd., Mishawaka (1 block west of Grape Rd.) Hours: Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 9-5 CAMPUS DELIVERIES DAILY 




"Well, as usual, there goes Princess Luwana -always the center of attention.... You know, underneath that outer wrap, she's held together with duct tape." 
OF INTEREST 

CROSSWORD 
--.--.-T-:-r-::--.• 13 Chambre 14 Kotter of 70's TV 15 Start, as a 33 Not discounted 
computer 
34-off (scold) 19 Start of a toast 35 Anecdotal 20 Spray, perhaps Bombeck 21 Grandma 
36 See 31-Across 
37 Butter container 51 Bravo and 57 U.F.O.
23 Knowing about 41 Writer at 24 Bit of distress Orchard House 
25Goggle 
42 Guffaws 27 Fish entree 
43-out 30 Sun or moon 
(ignore) 31 Near riot 45 "It-Be You" 32 "Thi~. is only (Kahn-Jones 
hit) 

Acoustic Cafe 
Featuring: 

Bill Racine And George and The Freeks Free Coffee! 
Winterfest '94 
Thurs. Feb. 10 lnterdorm Snow Sculpting Contest 
Fri. Feb. 11 
All-night Movies Beginning at 9pm LaFortune Ballroom 
DAVE KELLEIT 


46 Romance or 53 Art deg. sci-fi, e.g. 54 Golfer 47 Pop music's Woosnam --Pop 55 Sgt., for one 
48 Drive 56 Color 


Life's too short. 

occupants 52 Ending with 58 --mo (replay spin or speed technique) 
Grande 

Leadership Conference Education Fund, Inc. ~ Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Sat. Feb. 12 Mardi Gras Party LaFortune Ballroom 9pm to 1am 
Sun. Feb. 13 
Free Skating at JACC Skate Rental Included 2:30 to 4:30 
Sophomore Literary Festival 
February 13-17 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 7:30pm Reception to follow. Call SUB for details: 1-6171 

.. 
.. 
~~ 
~ 

ACROSS 
1 Ace depository 7 Peter Lorre typecast 131n no hurry to 
buy 151nexpensive 16 Table spread 17 Humiliate 18 Twice-told 19 Fairy tale kid 22 Hoodwink 26 Mosaic piece 28--per-view 29 University of 
Maine town 31 Jazz star, with 36-Down 34 Dialing for dollars? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
37 Slums Mother 38 Heavy bundles 39 Einstein's 
birthplace 40 Indy 500 
occurrence 44Humdrum 46 Vodka cocktail 49 Coach Holtz of 
Notre Dame 50 "All ~ystems 
-52 Survey 53 Spying on 
who's buying? 59 Alternatives to malls 60 "Marriage is -"· Cervantes 

&1 Saint-Tropez is one 
DOWN 
1 Makes confetti 2 Company trademark 3 Clean water agcy. 4 Prefix with glottis or gram 5 Pinot 
Chardonnay & Downstairs: Fr. 7 For beginners a Armored god 9Like many 
football stadiums 10 Scheduled 11 Reception site 
12 N.Y. summer time 

SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, February 10, 1994 
Women's basketball looking for revenge at Butler 

Second half rally not enough for SMC win 

By Dylan Barmmer rebounds per game. Point guard SportS Writer Jami Sloan is a third key player, scoring just over 10 points while 
The Notre Dame women's basket­averaging 5.2 assists. ball team will be in Indianapolis Beating Butler has proven a tough tonight to take on the Butler test for the Irish over the past few University Bulldogs in a Midwestern seasons. Although they lead the Collegiate Conference matchup. series 13-6, the Irish have lost the 
The Irish, who are riding a three past three meetings between the two game winning streak, are coming off schools, including a 65-62 loss at an emotional 81-66 comeback defeat home on January 22, their last loss of the Loyola Hamblers Saturday and only conference defeat of the night in Chicago. season. 
In that game, five Irish players fin­In order to post their first win at ished in double figures in scoring, Butler's Hinkle Fieldhouse in three with freshman guard Beth Morgan years, the Irish will have to continue leading the way with a team high 23 to score points. Notre Dame remains points, 19 of which came in the sec­on top the MCC in scoring offense, ond half of play. averaging 75.6 points per game, in­
The Irish, who are 14-5 overall and cluding back to back 80+ point 5-1 in the MCC, will be opposed by a games. 11-8 Butler team, which, at 4-2 in The Irish defense has also per­the MCC, would move into a tie for formed well this season, holding first place in the conference with a opponents to an MCC second-best win over the front-running Irish. The 64.8 points per game. Bulldogs have won five of their last Individually, the Irish will expect a six games, and would like nothing big game from Beth Morgan. Such better than to knock off the Irish. expectations have been warranted by 
In order to stop the surging continually fine play from the fresh­Bulldogs, the Irish will have to con­man guard, who leads the team in tain Sarah Armington, who leads the scoring with her 16.7 point per game team with 12.6 points per game. average. The last Notre Dame fresh­Lies! Schultz is also a tough player man to lead the team in scoring was for Butler, scoring 11.7 points per game, and leading the team with 6.5 see HOOPS/ page 22 
Men's Volleyball hosts Tri-State 
By G.R. NELSON of their confidence. With a tournament this Sports Writer weekend at the University of Kentucky, the Irish need a strong showing just so they can enjoy 
The men's volleyball team faces Tri-State their road trip. University tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the Thunderpit With all this on the line, excitement is rampant. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. "It is going to be a rumble," said enthusiastic 
The Irish (5-0) hope to rebound from a disap­freshman Mike Irvine, "But it's in our jungle." pointing showing at a tournament at the University of Michigan. 
They also know that it will not be easy. These two teams met on January 19, with the Irish win­ning the fifth and deciding game 19-17. 
"Both teams have improved significantly," said Irish captain Brian Ceponis. "I expect the game to be a battle." 
Ceponis cites Tri-State's outstanding defense as the primary area of concern for the Irish attack. "They are very scrappy, which leads to a strong defense," added Ceponis. 
Because of Tri-State's scrappy defense, the undefeated Irish will need to take advantage of every opportunity presented to them. To do this, they need a quality performance from junior set­ter Chris Fry. 
"I need to distribute the ball effectively early," said Fry, "And then get the ball to the hot man." 
Last time these teams met, outside hitter Matt Strottman was the hot man. Strottman single­handedly kept the Irish in the match after the team fell behind two games to none. This time, Strottman needs more support. 
"We need more of a team contribution," said Strottman. "We need to develop the middle, con­tain their outside attack, and play strong on defense." 
Establishing the middle most likely will be the key, as Tri-State's weakest link is its middle. On the other hand, Notre Dame, especially with a healthy Ceponis, possesses a powerful middle. 
If Ceponis and company can take control of the middle, Strottman and fellow outside hitter Tom Kovats should have ample opportunities on the outside. All in all, this should be the team's toughest test at home to date. 
This is an important game for several reasons. Notre Dame is finally playing a tough opponent The Observer/Sean Farnan in a match play situation. Moreover, they are Junior hitter John Vandemere practices in the playing at home with a healthy team. Thunderpit as the Irish men's volleyball team pre­
They need an impressive win to regain some pares for Tri-State. 
Inside SPORTS 

By ANNE NAPIER.KOWSKI Sports W ricer 

Jn an attempt to break their four game losing streak, the Belles fell again last night in a battle against Calvin College, 72-58. 
While the Belles showed a strong finish in the game, they could not overcome the first hairs disappointing perfor. mance. 
In the first five minutes of the game, Calvin took control. sinking nine consecutive bas­kets before the Belles could break into the double digits. 
"We were moving the ball poorly and we weren't inter­preting their defense well," said freshman guard Sarah Kopperud. 
"We needed to change our offense to. match their game plan." 
Saint Mary's weak offense led them t() only 14 points in the first half compared to Calvin's 40. · 
But the 26 point deficit did not preoccupy the Belles. 
"We were pretty down at halftime, but we .figured we had nothing to lose." said guard Colleen Andrews. "We came back out and played our own game as a team." 
The team is credited with a tough second half battle in an attempt to upset the number one ranked team in their dis­trict. 
"'We knew we had to play more like··a tea:rn.; forward Kati Lalli said. "We knew that 
we were a better team than 
the one we were playing like." 
With a re-evaluation of their game plan, the Belles went into the second half intense and focused. 
After six minutes of back and forth scoring, the Belles exploded with a 14 point run, holding Calvin at 62. 
"We started getting compla­
cent," said Calyin head·. coach 
GregAfman. ·· 
"But I commend the Belles. Theyadjusted well to out zone and they started maki11g some good shots." ·· · 
The good shots, however, were too little too late for the Belles. 
While they held Calvin at 7 2 
for the last three minutes of 
the game, they did not have 
the time to come up with a 
win. 

"When you're a young and inexperienced team it shows, especially when you play .against a talented te~10 like Calvin," explained eoaebMar· vin Wood.· "But thelasfhalf we showed what we were 
made of." ... Despite shooting· 37 percent, the Belles feel good about their second half rally. "If you look at the second half score, we beat Calvin,'' said Kopperud. "It showed us our potential and bas inspired us for the upcoming games." . The Belles are hopirtg to even out their S"l2record with their re10~iriing games 
p~ge2~ 
I 
Days Away 

Little known hero 
Razorbacks Shine 
The anticipation has 
Nolan Richardson's 

Reserve forward Ken 
reached its peak as the 
Arkansas team upended

Williams came off the 
Winter Olympics will 
Kentucky on its home 

bench to score a career 
begin on Saturday. 
floor to keep its No. 3

high 25 points for the 
(cxey 
rank.
Pacers. 

see pages 16 & 17 
see page 21

see page 19
Lillehammer'94 






